-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Jyn4AqGGdhc7Jv6QiDIzHvUBXfGY026Uk95lZDBjGAOHW689Sil0fiadvROdKxdh
 xjrPamqjX1VxW0b72wO9Yw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950134-02-003140.txt : 20020415
<SEC-HEADER>0000950134-02-003140.hdr.sgml : 20020415
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-02-003140
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	DEF 14A
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		1
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20020509
FILED AS OF DATE:		20020402

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			VALERO ENERGY CORP/TX
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001035002
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PETROLEUM REFINING [2911]
		IRS NUMBER:				741828067
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		DEF 14A
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13175
		FILM NUMBER:		02598825

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE VALERO PLACE
		CITY:			SAN ANTONIO
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			78212
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2103702000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE VALERO PLACE
		CITY:			SAN ANTONIO
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			78230
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>DEF 14A
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>d95261ddef14a.txt
<DESCRIPTION>DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                  UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549


                                  SCHEDULE 14A
                                 (RULE 14a-101)

                    INFORMATION REQUIRED IN PROXY STATEMENT

                            SCHEDULE 14A INFORMATION

          PROXY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 14(a) OF THE SECURITIES
                    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (AMENDMENT NO.   )

Filed by the Registrant [X]
Filed by a Party other than the Registrant [ ]

Check the appropriate box:

<Table>
<S>                                       <C>
[ ]  Preliminary Proxy Statement          [ ]  Confidential, for Use of the
                                               Commission Only (as permitted by
                                               Rule 14a-6(e)(2))
[X]  Definitive Proxy Statement
[ ]  Definitive Additional Materials
[ ]  Soliciting Material Pursuant to Rule 14a-12
</Table>


                          VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                (Name of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   (Name of Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if other than the Registrant)

Payment of Filing Fee (Check the appropriate box):

   [X]  No fee required.
   [ ]  Fee computed on table below per Exchange Act Rules 14a-6(i)(1) and 0-11.

   (1)  Title of each class of securities to which transaction applies:

        -----------------------------------------------------------------------

   (2)  Aggregate number of securities to which transaction applies:

        -----------------------------------------------------------------------

   (3)  Per unit price or other underlying value of transaction computed
        pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (set forth the amount on which the
        filing fee is calculated and state how it was determined):

        -----------------------------------------------------------------------

   (4)  Proposed maximum aggregate value of transaction:

        -----------------------------------------------------------------------

   (5)  Total fee paid:

        -----------------------------------------------------------------------

   [ ]  Fee paid previously with preliminary materials.
   [ ]  Check box if any part of the fee is offset as provided by Exchange Act
        Rule 0-11(a)(2) and identify the filing for which the offsetting fee was
        paid previously. Identify the previous filing by registration statement
        number, or the Form or Schedule and the date of its filing.

   (1)  Amount Previously Paid:

        -----------------------------------------------------------------------

   (2)  Form, Schedule or Registration Statement No.:

        -----------------------------------------------------------------------

   (3)  Filing Party:

        -----------------------------------------------------------------------

   (4)  Date Filed:

        -----------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

            THE PROMPT RETURN OF PROXY CARDS WILL SAVE THE EXPENSE OF
           FURTHER REQUESTS FOR PROXIES IN ORDER TO ASSURE A QUORUM.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




[VALERO
ENERGY CORPORATION LOGO]


                  NOTICE OF 2002 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS

         The Board of Directors has determined that the 2002 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders of Valero Energy Corporation will be held on Thursday, May 9, 2002
at 10:00 a.m., Central Time, at Valero's offices in San Antonio, Texas, located
at 6000 North Loop 1604 West, San Antonio, Texas 78249-1112, for the following
purposes:

         (1)      To elect two Class I directors to serve until the 2004 Annual
                  Meeting, four Class II directors to serve until the 2005
                  Annual Meeting, and one Class III director to serve until the
                  2003 Annual Meeting, or in each case until their respective
                  successors are elected and have qualified;

         (2)      To ratify the appointment of Ernst and Young LLP as
                  independent public accountants to examine Valero's accounts
                  for the year 2002; and

         (3)      To transact any other business properly brought before the
                  meeting.


                                      By order of the Board of Directors,


                                      Jay D. Browning
                                      Vice President and
                                      Corporate Secretary


San Antonio, Texas
April 5, 2002

<PAGE>

                            VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION

                                 PROXY STATEMENT

                         ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS

                                   MAY 9, 2002


GENERAL INFORMATION

This Proxy Statement is being mailed to stockholders beginning on or about
April 5, 2002 in connection with the solicitation of proxies by the Board of
Directors of Valero Energy Corporation(1) to be voted at the 2002 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders of Valero on May 9, 2002. The accompanying notice describes the
time, place and purposes of the Annual Meeting. Holders of record of Valero's
Common Stock, $0.01 par value, at the close of business on March 11, 2002 are
entitled to vote on the matters presented at the Annual Meeting. On the record
date, 105,671,352 shares of Common Stock were issued and outstanding, and
entitled to one vote per share. Action may be taken at the Annual Meeting on May
9, 2002 or on any date or dates to which the meeting may be adjourned. A
majority of such shares, present in person or represented by properly executed
proxy, shall constitute a quorum. If instructions to the contrary are not given,
shares will be voted as indicated on the proxy card. A stockholder may revoke a
proxy at any time before it is voted by submitting a written revocation to
Valero, returning a subsequently dated proxy to Valero or by voting in person at
the Annual Meeting.

Brokers holding shares must vote according to specific instructions they receive
from the beneficial owners. If specific instructions are not received, brokers
may generally vote these shares in their discretion. However, the New York Stock
Exchange precludes brokers from exercising voting discretion on certain
proposals without specific instructions from the beneficial owner. This results
in a "broker non-vote" on such a proposal. A broker non-vote is treated as
"present" for purposes of determining the existence of a quorum, has the effect
of a negative vote when a majority of the shares issued and outstanding is
required for approval of a particular proposal and has no effect when a majority
of the shares present and entitled to vote or a majority of the votes cast is
required for approval. Pursuant to the rules of the New York Stock Exchange,
brokers will have discretion to vote on the two items scheduled to be
presented at the Annual Meeting.

Valero pays for the cost of soliciting proxies and the Annual Meeting. In
addition to the solicitation of proxies by mail, proxies may be solicited by
personal interview, telephone and similar means by directors, officers or
employees of Valero, none of whom will be specially compensated for such
activities. Valero also intends to request that brokers, banks and other
nominees solicit proxies from their principals and will pay such brokers, banks
and other nominees certain expenses incurred by them for such activities. Valero
has retained Georgeson Shareholder Communications, Inc., a proxy soliciting
firm, to assist in the solicitation of proxies, for an estimated fee of $11,500,
plus reimbursement of certain out-of-pocket expenses.


- ----------

(1)  Valero was incorporated in Delaware in 1981 under the name Valero Refining
     and Marketing Company as a wholly owned subsidiary of a corporation then
     known as Valero Energy Corporation, or Old Valero. Old Valero was engaged
     in both the refining and marketing business and the natural gas related
     services business. On July 31, 1997, Old Valero spun off Valero to Old
     Valero's stockholders by distributing to them all of the Common Stock of
     Valero. Immediately after this distribution, Old Valero, with its remaining
     natural gas related services business, merged with a wholly owned
     subsidiary of PG&E Corporation. The distribution and the merger are
     collectively referred to as the "Restructuring." Upon completion of the
     Restructuring, Valero's name was changed from Valero Refining and Marketing
     Company to Valero Energy Corporation and its common stock was listed for
     trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "VLO."


                                       1
<PAGE>
PARTICIPANTS IN VALERO BENEFIT PLANS PLEASE NOTE:

In the case of participants in Valero's thrift plan the proxy card will
represent (in addition to any shares held individually of record) the number of
shares allocated to the participant's accounts under the thrift plan. For those
shares held under the plan, the proxy card will constitute an instruction to the
Trustee of the plan as to how those shares are to be voted. Shares for which
instructions are not received may be voted by the Trustee in accordance with the
terms of the plan.

INFORMATION REGARDING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

The business of Valero is managed under the direction of the Board of Directors.
The Board conducts its business through meetings of the Board and its
committees. During 2001, the board held 10 meetings and the committees held 11
meetings in the aggregate. No member of the Board attended less than 75% of the
meetings of the Board of Directors and committees of which he or she was a
member.

Valero's Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires the Board to be divided
into Class I, Class II and Class III directors, with each class serving a
staggered three-year term. The Board is currently comprised of twelve members.

The Board has standing Audit, Compensation, Executive and Finance Committees.
When deemed necessary or advisable, the Board will form from its members a
Nominating Committee to consider and recommend candidates for election to the
Board. The standing committees of the Board and the number of meetings held by
each committee in 2001 are described below.

EXPANSION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN CONNECTION WITH UDS MERGER

On December 31, 2001, Ultramar Diamond Shamrock Corporation ("UDS") merged with
and into Valero, with Valero as the surviving corporation of the merger. The
Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), dated May 6, 2001 between
Valero and UDS required in connection with the merger that Valero expand its
Board of Directors by up to four members and cause four members of the UDS board
of directors (collectively, the "UDS Board Designees") to be appointed to
Valero's Board of Directors. The Merger Agreement further required Valero to
nominate and recommend each of the UDS Board Designees for reelection to
Valero's Board of Directors at the May 9, 2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders,
with at least one UDS Board Designee serving in each of the three classes of
directors and with no more than two UDS Board Designees serving in the same
class of directors. Accordingly, pursuant to the recommendation of the
Nominating Committee, made at its meeting on October 10, 2001, the Board of
Directors at its meeting on October 18, 2001 expanded the size of Valero's Board
of Directors and appointed the UDS Board Designees to Valero's Board of
Directors, effective upon the consummation of the merger on December 31, 2001.
The UDS Board Designees are Messrs. E. Glenn Biggs, W. E. "Bill" Bradford, W. H.
Clark and Bob Marbut. As further described below under the heading, "Proposal
No. 1 Election Of Directors," the Nominating Committee and the Board have also
nominated and recommended to the Stockholders that each UDS Board Designee be
reelected to Valero's Board of Directors. The class assignments for the UDS
Board Designees and Valero's other Board members are shown below under Proposal
No. 1.

AUDIT COMMITTEE

The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board on various auditing and
accounting matters, including the quality, objectivity and performance of
Valero's internal and external accountants and auditors, the adequacy of its
financial controls and the reliability of financial information reported to the
public. The Audit Committee also monitors Valero's efforts to comply with
environmental laws and regulations. Current members of the Audit Committee are
Ruben M. Escobedo (Chairman), E. Glenn



                                       2
<PAGE>

Biggs, W. E. "Bill" Bradford and Dr. Susan Kaufman Purcell. The Audit Committee
met three times in 2001. For further information, see the "Report of the Audit
Committee" on page 24.

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE

The Compensation Committee reviews and reports to the Board on matters related
to compensation strategies, policies and programs, including certain personnel
policies and policy controls, management development, management succession and
benefit programs. The Compensation Committee also approves and administers
Valero's stock option, restricted stock, incentive bonus and other stock plans.
See "Report of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on Executive
Compensation." Current members of the Compensation Committee are Robert G.
Dettmer (Chairman), Jerry D. Choate and Bob Marbut, none of whom are current or
former employees or officers of Valero. The Compensation Committee met five
times in 2001.

There are no compensation committee interlocks. For the previous three fiscal
years, except for compensation arrangements disclosed in this Proxy Statement,
the Company has not participated in any contracts, loans, fees, awards or
financial interests, direct or indirect, with any committee member, nor is the
Company aware of any means, directly or indirectly, by which a committee member
could receive a material benefit from the Company.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

The Executive Committee exercises the power and authority of the Board during
intervals between meetings of the Board. With limited exceptions specified in
Valero's By-laws and under Delaware law, actions taken by the Executive
Committee do not require Board ratification. In the absence of a Nominating
Committee, the Executive Committee may also review possible director candidates
for nomination as a director. Current members of the Executive Committee are
William E. Greehey (Chairman), E. Glenn Biggs, Robert G. Dettmer and Ruben M.
Escobedo. The Executive Committee met once in 2001.

FINANCE COMMITTEE

The Finance Committee reviews and monitors the investment policies and
performance of the Company's thrift and pension plans, insurance and risk
management policies and programs, and finance and financial policy matters as
needed. Current members of the Finance Committee are W. H. Clark (Chairman), Dr.
Ronald K. Calgaard, Dr. Donald M. Carlton and William B. Richardson. The Finance
Committee, which was formed in connection with the UDS merger, did not meet in
2001 and has had one meeting in 2002.

NOMINATING COMMITTEE

When deemed necessary or advisable, the Board will form from its members a
Nominating Committee. If appointed, a Nominating Committee may evaluate policy
on the size and composition of the Board and criteria and procedures for
director nominations, and may consider and recommend candidates for election to
the Board. Robert G. Dettmer (Chairman) and Dr. Ronald K. Calgaard were
appointed as a Nominating Committee by the Board with respect to nominations for
the 2002 Annual Meeting. As indicated above under the heading, "Expansion of
Board of Directors in Connection with UDS Merger," the Nominating Committee also
considered and made recommendations to the Board with respect to the UDS Board
Designees to be appointed to Valero's Board of Directors in connection with the
UDS merger, and assignments for the committees of the Board. The full Board
approved the recommendations of the Nominating Committee and adopted resolutions
approving the UDS Board Designees, the slate of director nominees to stand for
election at the 2002 Annual Meeting, and assignments for the committees of the
Board. There were two Nominating Committee meetings in 2001.



                                       3
<PAGE>
COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS

Non-employee directors receive a retainer fee of $25,000 per year, plus $1,250
for each Board and committee meeting attended. Directors who serve as
chairperson of a committee receive an additional $2,000 annually. Each director
is also reimbursed for expenses of meeting attendance. Directors who are
employees of the Company receive no compensation (other than reimbursement of
expenses) for serving as directors.

Valero maintains the Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, or
Director Stock Plan, and the Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, or
Director Option Plan, to supplement the compensation paid to non-employee
directors and increase their identification with the interests of Valero's
stockholders through ownership of Common Stock. Upon election to the Board, each
non-employee director receives a grant of Common Stock valued at $45,000 that
vests (becomes nonforfeitable) in equal annual installments over a three-year
period. After all of the Common Stock previously granted to a director under the
Director Stock Plan is fully vested and the director is reelected for an
additional term, another similar grant is made.

The Director Option Plan provides non-employee directors of Valero automatic
annual grants of stock options to purchase Valero's Common Stock. To the extent
necessary, the plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board.
The plan provides that each new non-employee director elected to the Valero
Board automatically receives an initial grant of 5,000 options that vest in
equal annual installments over a three-year period. On the date of each
subsequent annual meeting of stockholders, each non-employee director (who is
not a new non-employee director) automatically receives a grant of 2,000
additional options which vest fully six months following the date of grant.
Stock options awarded under the Director Option Plan have an exercise price
equal to the market price of the Common Stock on the date of grant. All options
expire ten years following the date of grant. Options vest and remain
exercisable in accordance with their original terms if a director retires from
the Board.

In the event of a "Change of Control" as defined in the Director Stock Plan and
Director Option Plan, all unvested shares of Common Stock and options previously
granted under the plans immediately become vested or exercisable. The Director
Option Plan also contains anti-dilution provisions providing for an adjustment
in the number of options granted to prevent dilution of benefits or potential
benefits in the event any change in the capital structure of the Company affects
the Common Stock.

The Board of Directors determined in 2001 to cease benefit accruals in the
Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors, or Retirement Plan. The plan
provided for non-employee directors to receive a retirement benefit upon
completion of five years of service. The annual benefit at retirement was equal
to 10% of the highest annual cash retainer paid to the director during his or
her service on the Board, multiplied by the number of full and partial years of
service (not to exceed 10 years). This benefit was then paid for a period (not
to exceed 10 years) that is equal to the director's length of service on the
Board or the director's remaining life, whichever is shorter. Service on the
Board of Directors of Old Valero was counted for purposes of computing benefits
under the Retirement Plan. The Retirement Plan provided no survivor benefits and
was an unfunded plan paid from the general assets of the Company. The Board also
determined that the Director retirees already receiving benefits under the
Retirement Plan would continue to receive their benefits in accordance with the
terms of the plan. Additionally, they determined that each of the then current
directors would receive the actuarial value of their accrued benefits through
December 31, 2001, via a lump sum cash payment or a monthly annuity for the
director's length of service on the Board, not to exceed 10 years.




                                       4
<PAGE>

PROPOSAL NO. 1  ELECTION OF DIRECTORS

The Company's Board is divided into three classes for purposes of election. Two
Class I directors, four Class II directors and one Class III director will be
elected at the Annual Meeting. The Class I directors will serve until the 2004
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the Class II directors will serve until the 2005
Annual Meeting and the Class III director will serve until the 2003 Annual
Meeting. The nominees for Class I director are E. Glenn Biggs and Bob Marbut.
The nominees for Class II director are W. E. "Bill" Bradford, Dr. Ronald K.
Calgaard, William E. Greehey and Dr. Susan Kaufman Purcell. The nominee for
Class III director is W. H. Clark.

The persons named in the enclosed proxy card intend to vote for the election of
each of the nominees, unless you indicate on the proxy card that your vote
should be withheld from any or all of such nominees.

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS THAT STOCKHOLDERS VOTE "FOR ALL" NOMINEES.

Directors are elected by a plurality of the shares of Common Stock represented
at the Annual Meeting and entitled to vote. The nominees for Class I, Class II
and Class III directors receiving the greatest number of votes, whether or not
these votes represent a majority of the shares present and voting at the Annual
Meeting, will be elected as directors. Votes "withheld" from a nominee will not
count against the election of the nominee. If any nominee is unavailable as a
candidate at the time of the Annual Meeting, either the number of directors
constituting the full Board will be reduced to eliminate the vacancy, or the
persons named as proxies will use their best judgment in voting for any
available nominee. The Board has no reason to believe that any current nominee
will be unable to serve.




                                       5
<PAGE>
INFORMATION CONCERNING NOMINEES AND OTHER DIRECTORS

The following table sets forth information concerning each nominee for election
as a director and the current directors whose terms expire in 2003 and 2004. The
information provided is based partly on data furnished by the directors and
partly on the Company's records. There is no family relationship among any of
the executive officers, directors or nominees for director of Valero.

<Table>
<Caption>
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     EXECUTIVE
                                                     OFFICER           AGE AS OF        PRESENT
                             POSITION(s) HELD        OR DIRECTOR       DECEMBER 31,      TERM           DIRECTOR
         NAME                WITH VALERO             SINCE (1)         2001             EXPIRES         CLASS
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                          <C>                     <C>               <C>              <C>             <C>
NOMINEES
Dr. Ronald K. Calgaard         Director                 1996               64             2002              II

William E. Greehey             Director, Chairman       1979               65             2002              II
                               of the Board, Chief
                               Executive Officer
                               and President

Dr. Susan Kaufman Purcell      Director                 1994               59             2002              II


FORMER UDS DIRECTOR NOMINEES (2)

E. Glenn Biggs                 Director                 2001               68             2004               I

Bob Marbut                     Director                 2001               66             2004               I

W. E. "Bill" Bradford          Director                 2001               67             2004              II

W. H. Clark                    Director                 2001               69             2003              III



OTHER CURRENT DIRECTORS

Ruben M. Escobedo              Director                 1994               64             2004               I

William B. Richardson          Director                 2001               54             2004               I

Dr. Donald M. Carlton          Director                 1999               64             2003              III

Jerry D. Choate                Director                 1999               63             2003              III

Robert G. Dettmer              Director                 1991               69             2003              III
</Table>


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1)      Dates reported include service with Old Valero prior to the July 31,
         1997 spin-off of Valero from Old Valero. All directors serving prior to
         that date were elected to the Board of Valero in 1997 in connection
         with the spin-off of Valero from Old Valero.

(2)      In accordance with Valero's by-laws, Messrs. Biggs, Marbut, Bradford
         and Clark, who were elected as directors by the Board during 2001, will
         be assigned to the director class indicated upon election by the
         stockholders at the Annual Meeting.



                                       6
<PAGE>
CLASS II NOMINEES

DR. CALGAARD served as President of Trinity University, San Antonio, Texas, from
1979 until his retirement in 1999. Dr. Calgaard currently serves as Chairman of
Austin Calvert & Flavin Inc. in San Antonio, and is a director of Luby's
Cafeteria, Inc. and The Trust Company. Dr. Calgaard has served as a director of
Valero since the Restructuring in 1997 and of Old Valero since 1996.

MR. GREEHEY has served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
Valero since the Restructuring in 1997, has served as President of Valero since
December 31, 1998, and previously served as Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer of Old Valero. Mr. Greehey is also a director of the managing
general partner of Valero L.P.

DR. PURCELL has served as Vice President of the Americas Society in New York,
New York since 1989 and is also Vice President of the Council of the Americas.
She serves as a director of The Brazil Fund, Inc., The Korea Fund, Inc., Scudder
Global High Income Fund, Inc. and Scudder New Asia Fund, Inc. Dr. Purcell has
served as a director of Valero since the Restructuring in 1997 and of Old Valero
since 1994.

FORMER UDS DIRECTOR NOMINEES

CLASS I NOMINEES

MR. BIGGS is President of Biggs & Co., a corporation engaged in developmental
projects and financial planning. He has been involved in commercial banking
beginning with his service as Chairman of the Board of First National Bank of
San Antonio. He later served as Vice Chairman and Chairman of the Executive
Committee of InterFirst Bank, San Antonio. He is currently Chairman of Hester
Asset Management Corp. and Southwestern Bancorp. He is a former Chairman and
Director of Bolivian Power Corporation. He previously served as a director of
Valero Natural Gas Company from 1987 to 1989. Mr. Biggs served as a director of
UDS or its predecessors since 1987.

MR. MARBUT has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Argyle
Communications, Inc. since January 1992, and Chairman of Hearst-Argyle
Television, Inc. since August 1997. He was also Co-CEO of Hearst-Argyle from
August 1997 until January 1, 2001. He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of Argyle Television, Inc. from August 1994 until its merger with Hearst
Broadcasting in August 1997. He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Argyle Television Holding, Inc. from its founding in March 1993 until April
1994. Prior to 1992, Mr. Marbut was President and Chief Executive Officer of
Harte-Hanks Communications, Inc. for 20 years and served one year as Vice
Chairman of that company. He is a director of Tupperware Corporation,
Hearst-Argyle Television, Inc., ProAct Technologies Corp., and iKnowledge, Inc.
Mr. Marbut served as a director of UDS or its predecessors since 1990.

CLASS II NOMINEE

MR. BRADFORD is the retired Chairman of Halliburton Company. He became Chairman
of Halliburton Company upon its merger in 1998 with Dresser Industries, Inc.
Prior to that, Mr. Bradford was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Dresser
Industries, Inc. Mr. Bradford had been with Dresser Industries, Inc. since 1963,
holding various positions in production and management. He is also a director of
Kerr-McGee Corporation. Mr. Bradford served as a director of UDS or its
predecessors since 1992.




                                       7
<PAGE>
CLASS III NOMINEE

MR. CLARK is the retired Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of
Directors of Nalco Chemical Company. He was the President and Chief Executive
Officer of Nalco Chemical Company from 1982 until 1990, and Chairman of the
Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of that company from 1984 until
1994. Mr. Clark is President of W. "H" Clark Associates, Ltd., and is a director
of Merrill Lynch Corporation, Bethlehem Steel Corporation, Georgia Pacific
Corp., Millennium Chemicals Corp., The Merchants Exchange and Exchange Cubed. He
served as a director of UDS or its predecessors since 1994.

OTHER CURRENT DIRECTORS

MR. ESCOBEDO has been with his own public accounting firm, Ruben Escobedo &
Company, CPAs, in San Antonio, Texas since its formation in 1977. Mr. Escobedo
also serves as a director of Cullen/Frost Bankers, Inc. and previously served as
a director of Valero Natural Gas Company from 1989 to 1994. Mr. Escobedo has
served as a director of Valero since the Restructuring in 1997 and of Old Valero
since 1994.

MR. RICHARDSON  was elected as a director of Valero in 2001. He served as
Secretary of the United States Department of Energy from August 18, 1998 to
January 20, 2001, and served as the United States Ambassador to the United
Nations in 1997-1998. Prior to his ambassadorship, Mr. Richardson was elected
eight times to the United States House of Representatives to represent New
Mexico's 3rd Congressional District. He is presently a candidate in the November
2002 election for the office of Governor of the State of New Mexico. Mr.
Richardson is Senior Managing Director of Kissinger McLarty Associates. He also
serves as a director of Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. and Peregrine Systems,
Inc., and acts as a consultant for Salomon Smith Barney's Global Energy and
Power Group.

DR. CARLTON was elected as a director of Valero in 1999. Until his retirement on
December 31, 1998, Dr. Carlton served as President and Chief Executive Officer
of Radian International LLC, an Austin, Texas based engineering and technology
firm that is a subsidiary of URS Corporation. Dr. Carlton also serves as a
director of National Instruments Corp., American Electric Power Company, Inc.
and as a trustee of 26 Smith Barney (Citi) mutual funds.

MR. CHOATE was elected as a director of Valero in 1999. Mr. Choate retired from
Allstate Corporation at the end of 1998 where he had served as Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer since January 1, 1995. Mr. Choate also serves
as a director of Amgen, Inc. and Van Kampen Mutual Funds.

MR. DETTMER served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
PepsiCo, Inc. from 1986 until his retirement in 1996. Mr. Dettmer has served as
a director of Valero since the Restructuring in 1997 and of Old Valero since
1991.

RETIRED DIRECTOR

MR. LOWELL H. LEBERMANN retired from Valero's Board of Directors effective
December 31, 2001. Mr. Lebermann has been President of Centex Beverage, Inc., a
wholesale beverage distributor in Austin, Texas, since 1981. He is also a
director of Station Casinos, Inc. Mr. Lebermann served as a director of Valero
since 1986, and previously served on Valero's Board from 1979 to 1983.

For detailed information regarding the nominees' holdings of Common Stock,
compensation and other arrangements, see "Information Regarding the Board of
Directors," "Beneficial Ownership of Valero Securities," "Executive
Compensation," "Arrangements with Certain Officers and Directors" and
"Transactions with Management and Others."



                                       8
<PAGE>
BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP OF VALERO SECURITIES

The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2001 with respect
to each entity known to Valero to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of its
Common Stock, based solely upon a statement on Schedule 13G filed by such entity
with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"):

<Table>
<Caption>
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            SHARES
                       NAME AND ADDRESS                  BENEFICIALLY     PERCENT
TITLE OF CLASS      OF BENEFICIAL OWNER                      OWNED        OF CLASS *
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                 <C>                                  <C>              <C>
Common Stock        AXA Financial, Inc. (1)                5,922,605          5.7%
                    1290 Avenue of the Americas
                    11th Floor
                    New York, New York  10104

Common Stock        Mellon Financial Corporation (2)       4,549,299          4.4%
                    One Mellon Center
                    Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania  15258

Common Stock        Putnam Investments LLC (3)             3,112,359          3.0%
                    One Post Office Square
                    Boston, MA  02109


* The reported percentage is based on the number of shares of Valero common
stock issued and outstanding of 104,424,109 shares on December 31, 2001,
following the consummation on December 31, 2001 of the merger of UDS with and
into Valero. Per the terms of the merger Valero issued 45,887,826 additional
shares of its common stock to shareholders of UDS as part of the merger
consideration.
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</Table>

(1)   AXA Financial, Inc. has filed with the SEC a Schedule 13G, reporting that
      it or certain of its affiliates beneficially owned 5,922,605 shares. One
      such affiliate, Alliance Capital Management L.P., reported sole
      dispositive power with respect to 5,783,405 shares, sole voting power with
      respect to 3,593,705 shares and shared voting power with respect to
      387,225 shares.

(2)   Mellon Financial Corporation has filed with the SEC a Schedule 13G,
      reporting that it or certain of its affiliates beneficially owned
      4,549,299 shares. One such affiliate, The Boston Company, Inc., reported
      beneficial ownership of 3,392,631 shares, sole voting power with respect
      to 2,700,162 shares, shared voting power with respect to 1,740 shares,
      sole dispositive power with respect to 3.367,631 shares and shared
      dispositive power with respect to 4,034 shares.

(3)   Putnam Investments LLC has filed with the SEC a Schedule 13G, reporting
      that it or certain of its affiliates beneficially owned 3,112,359 shares.
      Putman Investments, LLC reported shared voting power with respect to
      449,847 shares, and shared dispositive power with respect to 3,112,359
      shares. Putnam Investment Management, LLC reported shared dispositive
      power with respect to 2,569,839 shares. Putnam Advisory Company, LLC
      reported shared voting power with respect to 449,847 shares and shared
      dispositive power with respect to 542,520 shares.




                                       9
<PAGE>
Except as otherwise indicated, the following table sets forth information as of
February 1, 2002 regarding Common Stock beneficially owned (or deemed to be
owned) by each nominee for director, each current director, each executive
officer named in the Summary Compensation Table and all current directors and
executive officers of Valero as a group. The persons listed below have furnished
this information to Valero and accordingly this information cannot be
independently verified by Valero.

<Table>
<Caption>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 COMMON STOCK

                                                                   PERCENT
                                 SHARES           SHARES UNDER     OF CLASS
NAME OF                          BENEFICIALLY     EXERCISABLE      COMMON
BENEFICIAL OWNER (1)             OWNED(2)(3)      OPTIONS(4)       STOCK)(2)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                              <C>              <C>              <C>
E. Glenn Biggs                        1,170            13,909            *
Keith D. Booke                       41,162            47,500            *
W. E. Bradford                       10,139            13,909            *
Dr. Ronald K. Calgaard                2,850            11,468            *
Dr. Donald M. Carlton                 3,389             5,334            *
Jerry D. Choate                       2,014             5,334            *
W. H. Clark                           6,800            13,909            *
Robert G. Dettmer(5)                 11,041            14,456            *
Ruben M. Escobedo(6)                  6,442            14,456            *
John D. Gibbons                      60,086            66,064            *
William E. Greehey(7)             1,224,710         2,568,433          3.54%
John F. Hohnholt                     47,929            78,457            *
Gregory C. King                      48,117            90,040            *
Bob Marbut                            1,170            13,909            *
Dr. Susan Kaufman Purcell             3,845            14,456            *
William B. Richardson                 1,245             1,667            *
All executive officers and
directors as a group, including
the persons named above
(18 persons)(8)                   1,523,192         3,059,839          4.25%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</Table>

*        Indicates that the percentage of beneficial ownership does not exceed
         1% of the class.

(1)      The business address for all beneficial owners listed above is One
         Valero Place, San Antonio, Texas 78212.

(2)      As of February 1, 2002, 104,689,898 shares of Common Stock were issued
         and outstanding. No executive officer, director or nominee for director
         of Valero owns any class of equity securities of Valero other than
         Common Stock. The calculation for Percent of Class includes shares
         listed under the captions "Shares Beneficially Owned" and "Shares Under
         Exercisable Options."

(3)      Includes shares allocated pursuant to the Valero Thrift Plan through
         January 31, 2002, as well as shares of restricted stock granted under
         Valero's Executive Stock Incentive Plan and the Director Stock Plan.
         Except as otherwise noted, each person named in the table, and each
         other executive officer, has sole power to vote or direct the vote and
         to dispose or direct the disposition of all such shares beneficially
         owned by him or her. Restricted stock granted under the Executive Stock
         Incentive Plan and the Director Stock Plan may not be disposed of until
         vested. Does not include shares that could be acquired under options,
         which information is set forth in the second column.



                                       10
<PAGE>

(4)      Includes shares subject to options that are exercisable within 60 days
         from February 1, 2002. Such shares may not be voted unless the options
         are exercised. Options that may become exercisable within such 60 day
         period only in the event of a change of control of Valero are excluded.
         Except as set forth in this Proxy Statement, none of the current
         executive officers, directors or nominees for director of Valero hold
         any rights to acquire Common Stock, except through exercise of stock
         options.

(5)      Includes 1,500 shares held by spouse.

(6)      Includes 673 shares held by spouse and 673 shares held in a trust.

(7)      Includes the following shares for which issuance and delivery have been
         deferred until January of the year following Mr. Greehey's retirement:
         118,334 shares awarded under the Executive Stock Incentive Plan as
         performance shares and 123,640 shares awarded under the plan that
         comprise Mr. Greehey's bonus award for 2001.

(8)      Only those officers of Valero who have been designated by the Board as
         "executive officers" for 2001 have been included in this group.

SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE

Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange
Act, requires Valero's executive officers, directors and greater than 10%
stockholders to file with the SEC certain reports of ownership and changes in
ownership. Based on a review of the copies of such forms received and written
representations from certain reporting persons, Valero believes that, during the
year ended December 31, 2001, its executive officers, directors and greater than
10% stockholders were in compliance with applicable requirements of Section
16(a).




The following Performance Graph and Report of the Compensation Committee of the
Board of Directors on Executive Compensation are not "soliciting material," are
not deemed filed with the SEC and are not to be incorporated by reference in any
of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended, respectively, whether made before or after the date of this
Proxy Statement and irrespective of any general incorporation language therein.




                                       11
<PAGE>
PERFORMANCE GRAPH

Set forth below is a line graph which compares the Cumulative Total Return* on
an investment in Valero Common Stock, against the cumulative total return of the
S&P 500 Composite Index and an index of peer companies selected by Valero for
the period of five fiscal years commencing December 31, 1996 and ending December
31, 2001. The Peer Group selected by Valero consists of two companies, Sunoco,
Inc. and Ultramar Diamond Shamrock Corporation ("UDS"), that are engaged in the
domestic petroleum refining industry with business operations, risks and markets
comparable to Valero's. Valero's Peer Group for the prior year also included
Tosco Corporation. Because Tosco merged into Phillips Petroleum Corporation on
September 17, 2001, Tosco is no longer included in the Peer Group.

                COMPARISON OF FIVE YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
                        AMONG VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION,
                      THE S & P 500 INDEX AND A PEER GROUP

                                     [GRAPH]

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                  12/1996    12/1997    12/1998    12/1999    12/2000    12/2001
                                                  -------    -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
<S>                                               <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Valero Common Stock..............................   100        165        113        107        202        209
Peer Group.......................................   100        136        114        90         131        180
S&P 500..........................................   100        133        171        208        189        166
</Table>

This Performance Graph and the related textual information are based on
historical data and are not necessarily indicative of future performance.

- ----------

*    Assumes an investment in Old Valero common stock (Valero's former parent)
     and assumes that each index was $100 on December 31, 1996. "Cumulative
     Total Return" is based on share price appreciation plus reinvestment of
     dividends on Old Valero common stock from December 31, 1996 through the
     date of the Restructuring (July 31, 1997) and on Valero Common Stock from
     the date of the Restructuring through December 31, 2001 (including
     reinvestment of the value of the PG&E Corporation shares received as a
     result of the merger of Old Valero with a subsidiary of PG&E Corporation).



                                       12
<PAGE>
REPORT OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION

Valero's executive compensation programs are administered by the Compensation
Committee of Valero's Board of Directors. The Committee is presently composed of
three independent outside directors who are not participants in the Company's
executive compensation programs. Policies adopted by the Committee are
implemented by Valero's compensation and benefits staff. Valero's executive
compensation programs are intended to provide strong incentives for high
performance, enabling Valero to recruit, retain and motivate the executive
talent necessary to be successful.

COMPENSATION POLICIES

Valero's philosophy for compensating executive officers is based on the belief
that a significant portion of executive compensation should be incentive based
and determined by both the Company's and the executive's performance.
Compensation for Valero executives includes base salary, an annual incentive
bonus opportunity and long-term, stock-based incentives. The CEO and other
executive officers also participate in benefit plans generally available to
other employees. The Committee believes that the market in which the Company
competes for executive talent is broader than the market defined by the
companies included in the Peer Group presented above in the Comparison of Five
Year Cumulative Total Return. Accordingly, to assist with determining executive
compensation levels, Valero utilizes a group of companies from a nationally
recognized compensation database compiled by Towers Perrin, an independent
compensation consultant. This group consists of 11 companies, referred to as the
Compensation Peer Group, who have significant participation in the domestic oil
refining and marketing industry and includes those Peer Group companies for
which compensation data is available. Towers Perrin's Compensation Peer Group
recommendation reflects consideration of each company's relative revenue, asset
base, employee population and capitalization, along with the scope of managerial
responsibility and reporting relationships. Base salary, bonuses and other
compensation recommendations are developed by Valero's compensation and benefits
staff using recognized, independent compensation surveys, reviewed by Towers
Perrin and submitted to the Committee for consideration.

Annual incentive bonuses, when awarded, are related both to measures of Company
financial performance and to individual performance. Long-term incentives,
consisting of performance shares, restricted stock and stock option grants, as
well as the non-cash portion of annual incentive bonus awards, are intended to
balance executive management focus between short and long-term goals and provide
capital accumulation linked directly to the performance of Valero's Common
Stock. For executive officers other than the CEO, base salary levels are
targeted at approximately the 50th percentile of the Compensation Peer Group,
while annual and long-term incentive compensation, when awarded, are targeted at
the 65th percentile. For the CEO, base salary levels as well as annual and long
term incentive compensation, when awarded, are targeted at the 75th percentile.

BASE SALARIES

Base salaries for each executive position are set based on the Compensation Peer
Group data for positions having similar duties and levels of responsibility.
Base salaries are reviewed annually and may be adjusted to reflect promotions,
the assignment of additional responsibilities, individual performance or the
performance of the Company. Salaries are also periodically adjusted to remain
competitive with the Compensation Peer Group.




                                       13
<PAGE>
ANNUAL INCENTIVE BONUS

Executive officers have the opportunity to earn an annual incentive bonus based
on the following three factors:

o        the position of the executive officer, which is used to determine a
         targeted percentage of annual base salary that may be awarded as
         incentive bonus, with the targets ranging from a low of approximately
         50% of base salary to approximately 100% of base salary (for the CEO);

o        realization by the Company of quantitative financial performance goals
         approved by the Committee; and

o        a qualitative evaluation of the individual's performance.

For each executive, the target percentage of base salary is adjusted upward or
downward depending upon whether Valero achieves certain financial performance
goals. The Committee retains discretion to further adjust individual bonus
targets upward or downward by up to 25%, based upon such factors as the
Committee deems appropriate, and ultimately to determine whether to award a
bonus to any individual. The following quantitative measures of financial
performance were utilized in establishing incentive bonuses for 2001:

o        return on equity, or ROE, compared with the average ROE for a group of
         three companies in the domestic oil refining and marketing business,
         referred to as the Target Group, for the 12-month period ended
         September 30, 2001;

o        return on investment, or ROI, for the 12 month period ended September
         30, 2001, compared with the ROI of the Target Group;

o        earnings per share, or EPS, of Valero's common stock in 2001 (based on
         estimates available at the time of computation) compared with Valero's
         EPS for 2000; and

o        the daily average closing price per share of Valero's common stock
         during November 2001 compared with the daily average closing price
         during the corresponding period in the prior year.

For the ROE and ROI financial performance measures, the target percentage of
base salary is subject to adjustment, upward or downward, depending upon whether
Valero's ROE and ROI exceeds, or falls short of, the average ROE and ROI for the
Target Group. For the earnings per share and stock price performance measures,
the target percentage of base salary is subject to adjustment if the Company's
performance exceeds or falls short of the prior year's measures. The four
performance factors are given approximately equal weight in determining
potential adjustments to the target percentages of base salary for 2001. ROE and
ROI are measured against the Target Group rather than the Compensation Peer
Group because (i) certain entities for which compensation survey information is
not available are nonetheless included in the Target Group because their
operations are most comparable to Valero's; and (ii) certain entities with whom
Valero competes for executive talent, and who are therefore included in the
Compensation Peer Group, have operations sufficiently different in size or scope
from Valero's such that financial comparisons are less meaningful.

For 2001, the Company's performance was above the Target Group average for ROE,
above the Target Group average for ROI, and above the 2000 earnings per share
and stock price performance. Based on these financial results, the Committee
determined to adjust the bonus target amounts upward. Executives received bonus
awards at an average of approximately 200% of the original target bonus amounts.
In furtherance of Valero's goal of increasing stock ownership as a component of
both short and long-term




                                       14
<PAGE>

compensation, 25% of each bonus award was paid with shares of Valero's common
stock and the remainder in cash.

LONG-TERM INCENTIVE AWARDS

Valero provides stock-based, longer-term compensation for executives through its
Executive Stock Incentive Plan. The plan authorizes awards of performance shares
which vest (become nonforfeitable) upon the achievement of an objective
performance goal, as well as grants of restricted stock, which vest over a
period determined by the Committee. For each eligible executive, a targeted
number of performance shares is set with an aggregate hypothetical market value
at the date of grant targeted at the 65th percentile of the Compensation Peer
Group. The targeted award can then be adjusted based upon an evaluation of
individual performance, which (for executives other than the CEO) is based upon
the recommendation of the CEO, and other factors the Committee deems
appropriate. As with the annual incentive bonus, the Committee retains the
discretion to determine whether an award should be made. The total number of
shares awarded is a function of Valero's common stock price at the time of grant
and the number of shares required to achieve a percentage of compensation
target. The Committee anticipates that awards of performance shares will
generally be made annually.

Performance shares are earned only upon the achievement of an objective
performance measure. Total shareholder return is the performance measure
utilized for determining what portion of performance share awards may vest. Each
award is subject to vesting in three annual increments, based upon Valero's
total shareholder return during rolling three-year periods that end on December
31 of each year following the date of grant. At the end of each performance
period, the Company's total shareholder return is compared to the Target Group
and ranked by quartile. Participants then earn 0%, 50%, 100% or 150% of that
portion of the initial grant amount that is vesting, depending upon whether
Valero's total shareholder return is in the last, 3rd, 2nd or 1st quartile,
respectively; and they earn 200% if Valero ranks highest in the group. Amounts
not earned in a given performance period can be carried forward for one
additional performance period and up to 100% of the carried amount can still be
earned, depending upon the quartile achieved for that subsequent period. For the
performance period ended December 31, 2001, Valero's performance ranked highest
in the group, resulting in vesting of eligible shares at the 200% level. The
Committee believes this type of incentive award strengthens the tie between the
named executive's pay and the Company's financial performance. Because
performance share awards are intended to provide an incentive for future
performance, determination of individual awards are not based upon Valero's past
performance. Additionally, in determining an individual award, the Committee
does not consider performance shares or restricted stock previously awarded or
currently held, because the Committee does not wish to encourage executives to
sell stock in order to qualify for additional awards.

STOCK OPTIONS

Under the Executive Stock Incentive Plan, the Committee may grant stock options
to executive officers. Procedures for determining the number of options to be
granted are in all material respects the same as for performance share awards.
Generally, option awards made by the Committee vest over a period of three years
in equal installments, provide for an option price equal to the market price of
Valero's common stock on the date of grant and expire ten years from the date of
grant. The Committee expects to continue this practice. The award and vesting of
stock options are not contingent on achievement of any specified performance
targets, but the options will provide a benefit to the executive only to the
extent that there is appreciation in the market price of Valero's common stock
during the option period.



                                       15
<PAGE>
DETERMINATION OF THE CEO'S COMPENSATION

The CEO's compensation is recommended by the Committee and approved by the Board
of Directors. Mr. Greehey's base salary, which is determined as described above,
was set at $1.3 million in 2000 and was not changed in 2001. In determining the
CEO's annual incentive bonus for the 2001 bonus year, the Committee considered
the four financial performance measures previously discussed above and made
substantially the same adjustments as discussed above. Based upon these factors,
and considering Mr. Greehey's individual performance and contributions to the
Company's growth and record profitability for 2001, particularly in stewarding
the successful acquisitions of Ultramar Diamond Shamrock Corporation, Huntway
Refining Company and El Paso Corporation's Corpus Christi refinery and related
logistics assets, the Committee recommended, and on January 17, 2002 the Board
of Directors approved, a bonus award to Mr. Greehey equal to $5,000,000, which
is approximately 3.8 times his annual base pay, with 100% of the award payable
in shares of Valero's common stock. The Committee and the Board further
determined that Mr. Greehey's bonus award would be delivered on January 1 of the
year following Mr. Greehey's retirement. As a result, the Company's tax burden
under Section 162(m) of the internal revenue code (discussed below) was reduced
by approximately $1.9 million in 2001. In order to alleviate the cash flow
impact to Mr. Greehey resulting from the delivery of his bonus after his
retirement, the Committee and the Board determined to make a loan to Mr. Greehey
of $1.9 million. The loan is evidenced by a promissory note executed by Mr.
Greehey and made payable to Valero. The loan will be combined with a similar
$400,000 loan made to Mr. Greehey in 2001. The note has a five-year term and
bears interest at a rate of 4.49% per annum. Interest and principal on the note
are payable at maturity. If Mr. Greehey's employment with Valero ceases prior to
the stated maturity of the note, the note must be repaid in full by the end of
the third month following such cessation of employment.

TAX POLICY

Under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, publicly held corporations
may not take a tax deduction for compensation in excess of $1 million paid to
the CEO or the other four most highly compensated executive officers unless that
compensation meets the Internal Revenue Code's definition of "performance based"
compensation. Section 162(m) allows a deduction for compensation to the
specified executives that exceeds $1 million only if it is paid (i) solely upon
attainment of one or more performance goals, (ii) pursuant to a qualifying
performance-based compensation plan adopted by the Committee, and (iii) the
material terms, including the performance goals, of such plan are approved by
the stockholders before payment of the compensation. Valero believes that stock
option awards and performance share grants under the Executive Stock Incentive
Plan qualify as performance-based compensation and are not subject to any
deductibility limitations under Section 162(m). Grants of restricted stock and
other stock based awards will likely not qualify as "performance based"
compensation and, in such event, would be subject to 162(m) deduction
restrictions.

MEMBERS OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE:

Robert G. Dettmer, Chairman
Jerry D. Choate
Bob Marbut



                                       16
<PAGE>
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The following table provides a summary of compensation paid for the last three
years to Valero's CEO and to its four other most highly compensated executive
officers. The table shows amounts earned by such persons for services rendered
to the Company in all capacities in which they served. Benefits under health
care, disability, term life insurance, vacation and other plans available to
employees generally are not included in the table.

                     SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE (1999-2001)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                      LONG-TERM COMPENSATION
                                                                     -------------------------
                                        ANNUAL COMPENSATION          RESTRICTED    SECURITIES
                               -----------------------------------      STOCK      UNDERLYING       LTIP        ALL OTHER
    NAME AND                                              BONUS         AWARDS       OPTIONS       PAYOUTS     COMPENSATION
    POSITION(s)                  YEAR     SALARY($)       ($)(1)        ($)(2)         (#)          ($)(3)        ($)(4)
                               -------   -----------   -----------   -----------   -----------   -----------   -----------
<S>                            <C>       <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
William E. Greehey                2001     1,300,008     5,000,000             0       250,000     9,983,835       148,407
Chairman of the Board,            2000     1,266,674     3,600,000             0       150,000     7,494,375        98,212
President and Chief               1999       900,000       600,000             0       860,000     1,032,429        77,635
Executive Officer

Gregory C. King                   2001       395,841       500,000             0        30,000       633,455        34,956
Executive Vice President          2000       345,833       375,000             0        30,000       420,898        22,151
and General Counsel               1999       266,169        90,000       143,750        32,500       158,533        20,012

John D. Gibbons                   2001       369,167       450,000             0        30,000       590,351        33,146
Executive Vice President          2000       300,833       350,000             0        30,000       398,171        18,535
and Chief Financial Officer       1999       255,000        80,000        40,313        12,500       130,875        20,056

Keith D. Booke                    2001       345,004       455,000             0        30,000       549,916        31,448
Executive Vice President and      2000       286,917       325,000             0        30,000       375,375        17,847
Chief Administrative Officer      1999       233,755        76,000        81,688        27,500       123,633        18,690

John F. Hohnholt                  2001       307,091       360,000             0        24,000       506,812        28,202
Senior Vice President             2000       272,504       300,000             0        18,000       366,298        16,884
                                  1999       245,004        70,000        40,313        12,500       130,875        19,419
</Table>

(1)  For 1999, executive bonuses were paid 50% cash and 50% in Common Stock. For
     2000, executive bonuses (other than Mr. Greehey) were paid 50% in cash and
     50% in Common Stock. For 2001, executive bonuses (other than Mr. Greehey)
     were paid 75% in cash and 25% in Common Stock. Mr. Greehey's bonus awards
     for 2000 and 2001 were made payable 100% in Common Stock to be delivered on
     January 1 of the year following Mr. Greehey's retirement. For further
     information, see "Report of the Compensation Committee of the Board of
     Directors on Executive Compensation" above.

(2)  Dividends are paid on restricted stock at the same rate as on Valero's
     unrestricted Common Stock. Shares of restricted stock reported vest 1/3
     annually over a three-year period. Amounts reported may include awards the
     executive has elected to defer. The aggregate number of unvested shares of
     restricted stock held at December 31, 2001 and the market value of such
     shares on that date (calculated according to SEC regulation without regard
     to restrictions on such shares) were: Mr. Greehey, 0 shares, Mr. King,
     1,666 shares, $63,508; Mr. Gibbons, 0 shares; Mr. Booke, 666 shares,
     $25,388; and Mr. Hohnholt, 0 shares.

(3)  LTIP payouts are the number of performance share awards vested for 2001
     performance multiplied by the market price per share of Valero Common Stock
     on the vesting date. Amounts reported may include awards the executive has
     elected to defer. For further information, see the notes following the
     table entitled "Long Term Incentive Plans-Awards in Last Fiscal Year."

(4)  Amounts include Company contributions pursuant to the Thrift Plan and
     Valero's Excess Thrift Plan, unused portions of amounts provided by the
     Company under the Company's Flexible Benefits Plan and that portion of
     interest accrued under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan which is
     deemed to be at "above-market" rates under applicable SEC rules. Messrs.
     Greehey, King, Gibbons, Booke and Hohnholt, were allocated $101,834,
     $31,084, $29,025, $27,117 and $24,109, respectively, as a result of Company
     contributions to the Thrift Plan and Valero's Excess Thrift Plan for 2001,
     and received $6,335, $2,586, $4,121, $4,331 and $3,522, respectively, as
     reimbursement of certain membership dues. Mr. Greehey also received $22,726
     as a result of "above-market" allocations to the Executive Deferred
     Compensation Plan for 2001. Amounts for Mr. Greehey also include executive
     insurance policy premiums with respect to cash value life insurance (not
     split-dollar life insurance) in the amount of $12,212 for 1999, 2000 and
     2001.



                                       17
<PAGE>
STOCK OPTION GRANTS AND RELATED INFORMATION

The following table provides further information regarding the grants of stock
options to the named executive officers reflected in the Summary Compensation
Table.

                    OPTION GRANTS IN THE LAST FISCAL YEAR (1)

<Table>
<Caption>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        NUMBER OF       PERCENT OF
                       SECURITIES      TOTAL OPTIONS                    MARKET
                       UNDERLYING         GRANTED                      PRICE AT                     GRANT DATE
                         OPTIONS       TO EMPLOYEES   EXERCISE PRICE  GRANT DATE    EXPIRATION    PRESENT VALUE
      NAME             GRANTED(#)     IN FISCAL YEAR      ($/SH)(1)      ($/SH)       DATE           ($)(2)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                    <C>            <C>             <C>             <C>           <C>           <C>
William E. Greehey      250,000            10.2%         33.7450       33.7450       07/18/11      $2,912,750

Gregory C. King          30,000             1.2%         33.7450       33.7450       07/18/11        $349,530

John D. Gibbons          30,000             1.2%         33.7450       33.7450       07/18/11        $349,530

Keith D. Booke           30,000             1.2%         33.7450       33.7450       07/18/11        $349,530

John F. Hohnholt         24,000             1.0%         33.7450       33.7450       07/18/11        $279,624
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</Table>

 (1) All options reported vest in equal increments over a three-year period from
     the date of grant, unless otherwise noted. In the event of a change of
     control of Valero, such options may become immediately exercisable pursuant
     to provisions of the plan under which such options were granted or of an
     executive severance agreement. Under the terms of the Company's option
     plans, the exercise price and tax withholding obligations related to
     exercise may be paid by delivery of already owned shares or by offset of
     the underlying option shares, subject to certain conditions.

(2)  A variation of the Black-Scholes option pricing model was used to determine
     grant date present value. This model is designed to value publicly traded
     options. Options issued under the Company's option plans are not freely
     traded, and the exercise of such options is subject to substantial
     restrictions. Moreover, the Black-Scholes model does not give effect to
     either risk of forfeiture or lack of transferability. The estimated values
     under the Black-Scholes model are based on assumptions as to variables such
     as interest rates, stock price volatility and future dividend yield. The
     estimated grant date present values presented in this table were calculated
     using an expected average option life of 3.32 years, risk-free rate of
     return of 4.51%, average volatility rate for the 3.32 year period prior to
     the grant date of 45.42%, and dividend yield of 1.19%, which is the
     expected annualized quarterly dividend rate in effect at the date of grant
     expressed as a percentage of the market value of the Common Stock at the
     date of grant. The actual value of stock options could be zero; realization
     of any positive value depends upon the actual future performance of the
     Common Stock, the continued employment of the option holder throughout the
     vesting period and the timing of the exercise of the option. Accordingly,
     the values set forth in this table may not be achieved.




                                       18
<PAGE>
           LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLANS - AWARDS IN LAST FISCAL YEAR (1)

<Table>
<Caption>
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                  ESTIMATED FUTURE PAYOUTS
                                                        PERFORMANCE               UNDER NON-STOCK PRICE-BASED PLANS
                                   NUMBER OF         OR OTHER PERIOD              ---------------------------------
                                 SHARES, UNITS       UNTIL MATURATION  THRESHOLD         TARGET          MAXIMUM
   NAME                         OR OTHER RIGHTS          OR PAYOUT     (# SHARES)       (# SHARES)      (# SHARES)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                    <C>                               <C>           <C>              <C>             <C>
William E. Greehey                  25,000               12/31/01           0            25,000          50,000
                                    25,000               12/31/02           0            25,000          50,000
                                    25,000               12/31/03           0            25,000          50,000

Gregory C. King                      2,667               12/31/01           0             2,667           5,333
                                     2,667               12/31/02           0             2,667           5,333
                                     2,667               12/31/03           0             2,667           5,333

John D. Gibbons                      2,467               12/31/01           0             2,467           4,933
                                     2,467               12/31/02           0             2,467           4,933
                                     2,467               12/31/03           0             2,467           4,933

Keith D. Booke                       2,300               12/31/01           0             2,300           4,600
                                     2,300               12/31/02           0             2,300           4,600
                                     2,300               12/31/03           0             2,300           4,600

John F. Hohnholt                     1,900               12/31/01           0             1,900           3,800
                                     1,900               12/31/02           0             1,900           3,800
                                     1,900               12/31/03           0             1,900           3,800
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</Table>

(1)  Long-term incentive awards are grants of Performance Shares made under the
     Executive Stock Incentive Plan. Total shareholder return, or TSR, during a
     specified "performance period" was established as the performance measure
     for determining what portion of an award may vest. TSR is measured by
     dividing the sum of (a) the net change in the price of a share of Valero's
     Common Stock between the beginning of the performance period and the end of
     the performance period, and (b) the total dividends paid on the Common
     Stock during the performance period, by (c) the price of a share of
     Valero's Common Stock at the beginning of the performance period. Each
     Performance Share award is subject to vesting in three equal increments,
     based upon the Company's TSR during rolling three-year periods that end on
     December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively. At the end of each
     performance period, the Company's TSR is compared to the TSR for a target
     group of comparable companies. Valero and the companies in the target group
     are then ranked by quartile. Participants then earn 0%, 50%, 100% or 150%
     of that portion of the initial grant amount that is vesting for such
     period, depending upon whether the Company's TSR is in the last, 3rd, 2nd
     or 1st quartile of the target group; 200% will be earned if the Company
     ranks highest in the group. Amounts not earned in a given performance
     period can be carried forward for one additional performance period and up
     to 100% of the carried amount can still be earned, depending upon the
     quartile achieved for such subsequent period.

The following table provides information regarding securities underlying options
exercisable at December 31, 2001, and options exercised during 2001, for the
executive officers named in the Summary Compensation Table:


                 AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES IN LAST FISCAL YEAR
                            AND FY-END OPTION VALUES

<Table>
<Caption>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                       VALUE OF UNEXERCISED
                                                    NUMBER OF SECURITIES                IN-THE-MONEY
                           SHARES                  UNDERLYING UNEXERCISED                OPTIONS AT
                          ACQUIRED     VALUE        OPTIONS AT FY-END(#)                FY-END ($)(1)
                        ON EXERCISE   REALIZED   --------------------------         --------------------------
    NAME                   (#)          ($)      EXERCISABLE  UNEXERCISABLE         EXERCISABLE  UNEXERCISABLE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                     <C>           <C>        <C>          <C>                   <C>          <C>
William E. Greehey           --            --     2,568,433        350,000           45,222,707    2,105,750

Gregory C. King           2,937        57,316        90,040         60,832            1,379,393      449,855

John D. Gibbons           2,937        57,316        66,064         54,166              973,604      331,250

Keith D. Booke            2,937        57,316        47,500         59,166              678,839      417,513

John F. Hohnholt          5,975       203,029        78,457         40,166            1,363,291      226,440
                          2,937        57,316
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</Table>

(1)      Represents the dollar value obtained by multiplying the number of
         unexercised options by the difference between the stated exercise price
         per share of the options and the closing market price per share of
         Valero's Common Stock on December 31, 2001.



                                       19
<PAGE>
RETIREMENT BENEFITS

The following table shows the estimated annual gross benefits payable under
Valero's Pension Plan, Excess Pension Plan and Supplemental Executive Retirement
Plan, or SERP, upon retirement at age 65, based upon the assumed compensation
levels and years of service indicated and assuming an election to have payments
continue for the life of the participant only.

                   ESTIMATED ANNUAL PENSION BENEFITS AT AGE 65

<Table>
<Caption>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    YEARS OF SERVICE
COVERED
COMPENSATION                   15                  20                25               30                35
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                        <C>                <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>
 $  200,000                $  54,000          $  72,000         $  90,000         $108,000          $126,000
    300,000                   84,000            111,000           139,000          167,000           194,000
    400,000                  113,000            150,000           188,000          225,000           263,000
    500,000                  142,000            189,000           236,000          284,000           331,000
    600,000                  171,000            228,000           285,000          342,000           399,000
    700,000                  200,000            267,000           334,000          401,000           467,000
    800,000                  230,000            306,000           383,000          459,000           536,000
    900,000                  259,000            345,000           431,000          518,000           604,000
  1,000,000                  288,000            384,000           480,000          576,000           672,000
  1,100,000                  317,000            423,000           529,000          635,000           740,000
  1,200,000                  347,000            462,000           578,000          693,000           809,000
  1,300,000                  376,000            501,000           626,000          752,000           877,000
  1,400,000                  405,000            540,000           675,000          810,000           945,000
  1,500,000                  434,000            579,000           724,000          869,000         1,013,000
  1,600,000                  464,000            618,000           773,000          927,000         1,082,000
  1,700,000                  493,000            657,000           821,000          986,000         1,150,000
  1,800,000                  522,000            696,000           870,000        1,044,000         1,218,000
  1,900,000                  551,000            735,000           919,000        1,103,000         1,286,000
  2,000,000                  581,000            774,000           968,000        1,161,000         1,355,000
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</Table>

Valero maintains a noncontributory defined benefit Pension Plan in which
virtually all employees are eligible to participate and under which
contributions by individual participants are neither required nor permitted.
Valero also maintains a noncontributory, non-qualified Excess Pension Plan and a
non-qualified SERP, which provide supplemental pension benefits to certain
highly compensated employees. The Pension Plan (supplemented, as necessary, by
the Excess Pension Plan) provides a monthly pension at normal retirement equal
to 1.6% of the participant's average monthly compensation (based upon the
participant's earnings during the three consecutive calendar years during the
last 10 years of the participant's credited service, including service with Old
Valero, affording the highest such average) times the participant's years of
credited service. The SERP provides an additional benefit equal to .35% times
the product of the participant's years of credited service (maximum 35 years)
multiplied by the excess of the participant's average monthly compensation over
the lesser of 1.25 times the monthly average (without indexing) of the social
security wage bases for the 35-year period ending with the year the participant
attains social security retirement age, or the monthly average of the social
security wage base in effect for the year that the participant retires. For
purposes of the SERP, the participant's most highly compensated consecutive 36
months of service during the participant's last 10 years of employment,
including employment with Old Valero and its subsidiaries, are considered.
Compensation for purposes of the Pension Plan, Excess Pension Plan and SERP
includes salary and bonus as reported in the Summary Compensation Table. Pension
benefits are not subject to any deduction for social security or other offset
amounts.

Credited years of service for the period ended December 31, 2001 for the
executive officers named in the Summary Compensation Table are as follows: Mr.
Greehey - 38 years; Mr. King - 8 years; Mr. Gibbons - 21 years; Mr. Booke - 19
years; and Mr. Hohnholt - 20 years.



                                       20
<PAGE>
ARRANGEMENTS WITH CERTAIN OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS

Old Valero entered into a severance agreement with Mr. Greehey, which provides
certain payments and other benefits in the event of his termination of
employment under certain circumstances. Mr. Greehey's severance agreement
provides that if he leaves the Company for any reason (other than death,
disability or normal retirement) within two years after a "change of control,"
he will receive a lump-sum cash payment equal to three times his highest
compensation during any consecutive 12-month period in the prior three years. He
will also be entitled to accelerated vesting of all previously granted stock
options and restricted stock. The agreement also provides for special retirement
benefits if he would have qualified for benefits under the Pension Plan had he
remained with the Company for the three-year period following such termination,
continuance of life and health insurance coverages, relocation assistance and
other fringe benefits for such three-year period.

Valero has entered into management stability agreements with various key
executives, including Messrs. King, Gibbons, Booke and Hohnholt. These
agreements are intended to assure the continued availability of these executives
in the event of certain transactions culminating in a "change of control" of
Valero. Under the management stability agreements, in the event Mr. King, Mr.
Gibbons, Mr. Booke or Mr. Hohnholt is terminated within two years after a change
of control or divestiture transaction has occurred, and termination is not
voluntary or the result of death, permanent disability, retirement or certain
other defined circumstances, the executive would be entitled to receive (i) a
lump sum cash payment equal to two times the highest annual compensation paid to
him during the prior three-year period, and (ii) the continuation of life,
disability and health insurance coverages for two years. Each executive would
also be entitled to accelerated vesting of all previously granted stock options
and restricted stock.

Valero has entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Greehey. The agreement
became effective March 25, 1999 and the initial period of the agreement expired
on July 31, 2001. In accordance with the agreement, prior to the expiration
date, Mr. Greehey delivered written notice to Valero of his intention to extend
the employment agreement, and the Company and Mr. Greehey executed an extension
of employment agreement that extended the term of Mr. Greehey's employment
beyond the end of the initial period on a month-to-month basis. Mr. Greehey may
terminate the employment agreement within the extension period by giving Valero
90 calendar days written notice of termination. The agreement provided for Mr.
Greehey to serve as Chief Executive Officer of Valero and receive an initial
base salary of $900,000 per annum, subject to possible increase adjustments by
the Board of Directors. The agreement also provided for the grant to Mr. Greehey
of an option to acquire 860,000 shares of Common Stock and a grant of 150,000
Performance Shares, each vesting 50% per year over two years. Mr. Greehey is
also eligible to receive an annual bonus in an amount determined by the Board.
During his employment, Mr. Greehey will also receive reimbursement for certain
club membership dues and fees, tax planning services and a permanent life
insurance benefit. In the event Mr. Greehey dies during employment, his base
salary shall be paid to his beneficiaries or estate for the remainder of the
agreement period.

The agreement provides that Mr. Greehey may retire at any time upon 90 days
prior notice. Upon his retirement from employment, Mr. Greehey has agreed to
continue to serve at the discretion of the Board as Chairman of the Board for
two additional years at a rate of compensation equal to one-half of his base
salary in effect at the time of his retirement. Upon his retirement, in addition
to retiree medical and other benefits payable to retirees generally, Mr. Greehey
would also receive credit for eight additional years of service for purposes of
calculating his pension benefits, vesting of certain outstanding derivative
securities, office and secretarial facilities and $300,000 of permanent life
insurance.

The Company may terminate Mr. Greehey's employment as Chief Executive Officer at
any time upon 90 days notice. Unless his termination is for cause, Mr. Greehey
would be entitled to receive a pro rata, lump sum cash settlement equal to the
sum of (i) Mr. Greehey's base salary for the remaining term of the



                                       21
<PAGE>

agreement, plus (ii) an amount equal to the highest annual bonus paid to Mr.
Greehey during the preceding five years. If Mr. Greehey's employment is
terminated by the Company, he would not be entitled to serve as Chairman or to
receive the compensation specified for such service. However, if Mr. Greehey
retires and commences service as Chairman of the Board, and is then removed from
such position by a majority of the remaining Board members, he would be entitled
to receive the balance of the two years compensation for serving as Chairman of
the Board. The employment agreement provides that if Mr. Greehey receives a cash
payment, and the payment is determined to be subject to the excise tax required
for certain "excess parachute payments," then he shall receive a cash bonus to
cover the amount of the excise tax payable, plus any taxes on such bonus amount.
The employment agreement also states that any amounts that Mr. Greehey may
receive under his severance agreement shall be credited against amounts payable
under his employment agreement.

TRANSACTIONS WITH MANAGEMENT AND OTHERS

See "Executive Compensation" and "Arrangements with Certain Officers and
Directors" for a discussion of compensation paid to certain officers and
directors. In connection with the deferral of certain compensation, the Company
has made a loan to Mr. Greehey. See "Determination of the CEO's Compensation" in
the "Report of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on Executive
Compensation."

Except as referenced above, no executive officer, director or nominee for
director of Valero has been indebted to the Company, or has acquired a material
interest in any transaction to which the Company is a party, during the last
fiscal year.




                                       22
<PAGE>
PROPOSAL NO. 2 RATIFICATION OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

Following a thorough evaluation, and in accordance with the recommendation of
the Audit Committee, the Board of Directors determined on March 12, 2002 to
engage Ernst and Young LLP to serve as the Company's independent auditors for
the fiscal year ending December 31, 2002. Prior to the selection of Ernst and
Young, Arthur Andersen LLP served as the company's independent auditors.

Arthur Andersen's reports on the Company's consolidated financial statements for
each of the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 did not contain an adverse
opinion or disclaimer of opinion, nor were they qualified or modified as to
uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles. During the years ended
December 31, 2001 and 2000 and through the date hereof, there were no
disagreements with Arthur Andersen on any matter of accounting principle or
practice, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure which,
if not resolved to Arthur Andersen's satisfaction, would have caused them to
make reference to the subject matter in connection with their report on the
Company's consolidated financial statements for such years; and there were no
reportable events as defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K.

During the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 and through the date hereof,
the Company did not consult Ernst and Young LLP with respect to the application
of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or
proposed, or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on the Company's
consolidated financial statements, or any other matters or reportable events as
set forth in Items 304(a)(2)(i) and (ii) of Regulation S-K.

The Board requests stockholder approval of the following resolution adopted at
the Board of Directors meeting held on March 12, 2002, appointing Ernst and
Young LLP as independent auditors for the Company for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 2002.

         RESOLVED, that the appointment of the firm of Ernst and Young LLP,
         Certified Public Accountants, as the independent auditors for the
         Company for the purpose of conducting an examination and audit of the
         financial statements of Valero and its subsidiaries for the fiscal year
         ending December 31, 2002 is hereby approved and ratified.

THE BOARD RECOMMENDS THAT THE STOCKHOLDERS VOTE "FOR" THE PROPOSAL TO RATIFY THE
APPOINTMENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS.

Passage of the proposal requires approval of a majority of the shares
represented and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting. If the appointment is
not approved, the adverse vote will be considered as an indication to the Board
that it should select other independent public accountants for the following
year. Because of the difficulty and expense of making any substitution of
accountants so long after the beginning of the current year, it is contemplated
that the appointment for 2002 will be permitted to stand unless the Board finds
other good reason for making a change.

Representatives of Ernst and Young and Arthur Andersen are expected to be
present at the Annual Meeting to respond to appropriate questions raised at the
Annual Meeting or submitted to them in writing prior to the Annual Meeting. The
representatives may also make a statement if they desire to do so.




                                       23
<PAGE>
ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP FEES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2001

Audit Fees. Audit fees incurred by the Company with respect to the Arthur
Andersen LLP audit of Fiscal Year 2001 financial statements were $984,000.

Financial Information Systems Design and Implementation Fees. Fees incurred by
the Company to Arthur Andersen LLP in connection with financial information
systems design and implementation projects for Fiscal Year 2001 were $867,504.

All Other Fees. All other fees incurred by the Company payable to Arthur
Andersen LLP with respect to Fiscal Year 2001 were $4,833,885. These fees
related primarily to provision of services with respect to acquisitions.

The Audit Committee considered whether the provision of services described above
under "All Other Fees" is compatible with maintaining Arthur Andersen's
independence.

REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE FOR FISCAL YEAR 2001(2)

The Audit Committee is composed of four directors who are not officers or
employees of the Company. Under currently applicable rules of the New York Stock
Exchange, all members are independent. The Board of Directors has adopted a
written charter for the Audit Committee, which is included as Appendix A to this
Proxy Statement.

Management is responsible for the Company's internal controls and the financial
reporting process. Arthur Andersen LLP, the Company's independent accountants
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, is responsible for performing an
independent audit of the Company's consolidated financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and to issue a report
thereon. The Committee monitors and oversee these processes. The Committee
recommends to the Board of Directors the selection of the Company's independent
auditors.

The Committee has reviewed and discussed the Company's audited financial
statements with management and the independent accountants. The Committee has
discussed with Arthur Andersen the matters required to be discussed by Statement
on Auditing Standards No. 61 (Communications with Audit Committees). The
Committee has received the written disclosures and the letter from Arthur
Andersen required by Independence Standards Board Standard No. 1 (Independence
Discussions with Audit Committees), and has discussed with Arthur Andersen that
firm's independence.

Based on the foregoing review and discussions and such other matters the
Committee deemed relevant and appropriate, the Committee recommended to the
Board of Directors that the audited financial statements of the Company be
included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2001.

MEMBERS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE:

Ruben M. Escobedo, Chairman
E. Glenn Biggs
W. E. Bradford
Dr. Susan Kaufman Purcell

- ----------

(2)      The material in this Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of
         Directors is not "soliciting material," is not deemed filed with the
         SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of our filings
         under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of
         1934, as amended, respectively, whether made before or after the date
         of this Proxy Statement and irrespective of any general incorporation
         language therein.


                                       24
<PAGE>
PROPOSAL NO. 3  OTHER BUSINESS

If any matters not referred to in this Proxy Statement properly come before the
Annual Meeting, a majority of the persons named in the proxy (or, if one such
person acts, then that one) may vote the shares represented by proxy in
accordance with their best judgment. The Board was not aware at a reasonable
time before solicitation of proxies began of any other matters that would be
presented for action at the meeting.

STOCKHOLDER PROPOSALS

Under Valero's by-laws, stockholders intending to bring any business before an
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, including nominations of persons for election as
directors, must give prior written notice to the Corporate Secretary regarding
the business to be presented or persons to be nominated. The notice must be
received at the principal executive office of Valero within the specified period
and must be accompanied by the information and documents specified in the
by-laws. A copy of the by-laws may be obtained by writing to the Corporate
Secretary of Valero.

The provisions of the by-laws do not affect any stockholder's right to request
inclusion of proposals in the Proxy Statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the
Exchange Act. Rule 14a-8 of the federal proxy rules specifies what constitutes
timely submission for a stockholder proposal to be included in the Company's
proxy statement. If a stockholder desires to bring business before the meeting
which is not the subject of a proposal timely submitted for inclusion in the
proxy statement, the stockholder must follow procedures outlined in the
Company's by-laws. A copy of these procedures is available upon request from the
Corporate Secretary of the Company, P.O. Box 500, San Antonio, Texas,
78292-0500. One of the procedural requirements in the Company's by-laws is
timely notice in writing of the business the stockholder proposes to bring
before the meeting. Notice must be received not less than 60 days nor more than
90 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting.
It should be noted that those by-law procedures govern proper submission of
business to be put before a stockholder vote and do not preclude discussion by
any stockholder of any business properly brought before the annual meeting.
Under the SEC's proxy solicitation rules, to be considered for inclusion in the
proxy materials for the 2003 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, stockholder
proposals must be received by the Corporate Secretary at Valero's principal
office in San Antonio, Texas by November 28, 2002.

Valero will consider recommendations by stockholders for directors to be
nominated at the 2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Recommendations must be in
writing and include sufficient biographical and other relevant information such
that an informed judgment as to the proposed nominee's qualifications can be
made. Recommendations must be accompanied by a notarized statement executed by
the proposed nominee consenting to be named in the Proxy Statement, if
nominated, and to serve as a director, if elected. Recommendations received in
proper order by the Corporate Secretary at Valero's principal executive office
at least six months prior to the 2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be
referred to, and considered by, the Executive Committee or, if appointed, a
Nominating Committee.

Stockholders are urged to review all applicable rules and, if questions arise,
to consult their own legal counsel before submitting a nomination or proposal to
Valero. No stockholder recommendations or proposals were received within the
required period before the Annual Meeting.





                                       25
<PAGE>
MISCELLANEOUS

Consolidated financial statements and related information for Valero, including
audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, are
contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K which is being distributed
to stockholders with this Proxy Statement.

Valero's Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2001 has simultaneously been mailed to stockholders entitled to vote at the
Annual Meeting. The Annual Report is not to be treated as a part of the proxy
materials.

Computershare Investor Services, Chicago, Illinois, serves as transfer agent,
registrar and dividend paying agent for Valero's Common Stock. Correspondence
relating to any stock accounts, dividends or transfers of stock certificates
should be addressed to:

Computershare Investor Services
Shareholder Communications
P.O. Box 1689
Chicago, IL 60690-1689
(312) 588-4700





                                             By order of the Board of Directors,


                                             Jay D. Browning
                                             Vice President &
                                             Corporate Secretary

San Antonio, Texas
April 5, 2002



                                       26
<PAGE>
                                   APPENDIX A

                            VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION
                    AUDIT COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                                     CHARTER
                              (Adopted May 4, 2000)

I.     PURPOSE

       The primary purpose of the Audit Committee ("Committee") of the Board of
Directors of Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") is to assist the Board of
Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by: reviewing the
financial reports and other financial information provided by the Company to any
governmental body or to the public, and reviewing processes established by
management to assess whether an adequate system of financial reporting and
internal control is functioning within the Company. The Committee's primary
responsibilities are to:

       o   Serve as an independent and objective party to monitor the Company's
           financial reporting process and internal control system.

       o   Review the audit activities of the Company's independent accountants
           and internal auditors.

       o   Provide an open avenue of communication among the Company's
           independent accountants, its management, its internal auditing
           department, and the Board of Directors.

       The Committee will fulfill these responsibilities by carrying out the
activities described in Section III of this Charter, in accordance with the
parameters set forth in Section II of the Charter.

II.    COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP REQUIREMENTS

       The Committee shall be comprised of at least three directors as
determined by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors will designate one
member of the Committee to chair the committee. Each member of the Committee
shall be an independent director or be otherwise eligible to serve on the
Committee pursuant to the parameters for eligibility set forth by the Securities
and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange.

       Specifically, each member of the Committee shall be financially literate,
or become financially literate within a reasonable period of time after
appointment to the Committee. The Board of Directors will exercise its business
judgment to appoint Committee members who fulfill this requirement. In addition,
at least one Committee member shall possess accounting or related financial
management expertise. The Board of Directors will exercise its business judgment
to appoint at least one Committee member who fulfills this requirement.

III.   COMMITTEE FUNCTIONS.

             A. Meetings. The Committee undertakes to meet at least three times
        each year. The Committee will report to the Board of Directors regarding
        any significant discussions or findings relating to the meetings of the
        Committee.

             B. Charter. The Committee shall annually review and reassess the
        adequacy of this Charter.



                                        1
<PAGE>

             C. Independent Accountants. The independent accountants for the
        Company are ultimately accountable to the Board of Directors and the
        Committee. The Committee undertakes the following with respect to the
        Company's independent accountants.

                   1. The Committee will recommend annually to the Board of
               Directors the name of the independent accountants to be appointed
               to conduct an examination and audit of the financial statements
               of the Company and its subsidiaries.

                   2. The Committee will review with the appropriate officers of
               the Company the terms of the independent accountants' engagement
               with the Company, including fee estimates for arranged audit
               services and special services.

                   3. The Committee will require the independent accountants to
               submit to the Committee at least annually a written report
               delineating all relationships between the independent accountants
               and the Company (and its subsidiaries) as well as the independent
               accountants' assessment of whether any such relationships affect
               their ability to serve as independent accountants for the
               Company. The Committee will discuss with the appropriate officers
               of the Company and the independent accountants any disclosed
               relationships or services that may impact the objectivity and
               independence of the independent accountants. The Committee will
               recommend that the Board of Directors take appropriate action in
               response to the independent accountants' report to satisfy itself
               of the independent accountants' independence.

                   4. Before the Company files its Annual Report on Form 10-K
               with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Committee will
               review and discuss with the appropriate officers of the Company
               and the independent accountants any report or information
               delivered to the Committee by the independent accountants and
               required to be discussed under the Statement on Auditing
               Standards (SAS) No. 61, as may be amended or superseded,
               regarding the scope and results of the independent accountants'
               audit.

                   5. The Committee shall review the audited financial
               statements of the Company with the appropriate officers of the
               Company and the independent accountants, and make a
               recommendation to the Board of Directors whether the audited
               financial statements should be included in the Company's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K.

                   6. The Committee shall review the independent accountants'
               internal control report and the adequacy of the Company's
               internal controls with the appropriate officers of the Company
               and the independent accountants.

             D. The Company's Internal Auditors. The Committee will review the
        Company's annual internal audit plan and annual internal audit
        performance report with the appropriate officers of the Company,
        including its Internal Audit Director, and the independent accountants.
        The Committee will also review the Company's internal audit reports and
        its completed and active internal audit projects with the appropriate
        officers of the Company, including its Internal Audit Director, and the
        independent accountants.

             E. Environmental and Safety Matters. The Committee will review
        annually the Company's and its subsidiaries' compliance with applicable
        environmental and safety laws and regulations and the results of
        internal environmental and safety assessment and compliance programs
        with the appropriate environmental and safety personnel of the Company.



                                       2
<PAGE>

             F. Reporting. The Committee will prepare and deliver to the Company
        a report of the Committee for inclusion in the Company's annual proxy
        statement. The report will contain all of the information required by
        the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to its rules and
        regulations pertaining to reports of audit committees included in proxy
        statements.

             G. Other Activities. In its discretion, the Committee will perform
        the following activities when deemed necessary or appropriate.

                   1. The Committee will meet separately with the Company's
               financial and executive officers, including the Internal Audit
               Director, and the Company's independent accountants to assess
               whether any conditions may exist that could impair the working
               relationship between the independent accountants and the
               Company's management.

                   2. The Committee will review compliance with the Company's
               policies regarding conflicts of interest and employee trading of
               securities, and inquire about any fraud or significant conflicts
               of interest.

                   3. The Committee will review any legal proceedings affecting
               the Company or its subsidiaries that could have a material
               adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.

                   4. The Committee will consider any other matters in relation
               to the financial affairs of the Company and its accounts, and in
               relation to audits of the Company, as the Committee may determine
               to be advisable.


                                       3
<PAGE>
<Table>
<S>                                        <C>                            <C>                <C>                                <C>
                                                                          CONTROL NUMBER
[VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION LOGO]                                                                                                 +
                                                                          000000  0000000000  0  0000

                                                                          000000000.000 ext
                                                                          000000000.000 ext
[BAR CODE]                                                                000000000.000 ext
                                                                          000000000.000 ext
                                                                          000000000.000 ext
                                                                          000000000.000 ext
             MR A SAMPLE
             DESIGNATION (IF ANY)                                         000000000.000 ext
             ADD 1
             ADD 2                                                        HOLDER ACCOUNT NUMBER
             ADD 3                                                        C 1234567890     J N T
             ADD 4
             ADD 5                                                        [BAR CODE]
             ADD 6

Use a black pen. Print in
CAPITAL letters inside the grey     A B C  1 2 3   X                 [ ]  Mark this box with an X if you have made
areas as shown in this example.                                           changes to your name or address details above.

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ANNUAL MEETING PROXY CARD
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A  ELECTION OF DIRECTORS                   PLEASE REFER TO THE REVERSE SIDE FOR INTERNET AND TELEPHONE VOTING INSTRUCTIONS.
1. The Board of Directors recommends a vote FOR the listed nominees.

TO ELECT TWO CLASS I DIRECTORS TO          TO ELECT FOUR CLASS II DIRECTORS TO               TO ELECT ONE CLASS III DIRECTOR TO
SERVE UNTIL THE 2004 ANNUAL MEETING.       SERVE UNTIL THE 2005 ANNUAL MEETING               SERVE UNTIL THE 2003 ANNUAL MEETING.

                       FOR     WITHHOLD                                    FOR     WITHHOLD                     FOR     WITHHOLD

01 - E. Glenn Biggs    [ ]       [ ]       03 - Dr. Ronald K. Calgaard     [ ]       [ ]     07 - W. H. Clark   [ ]       [ ]

02 - Bob Marbut        [ ]       [ ]       04 - William E. Greehey         [ ]       [ ]

                                           05 - Dr. Susan Kaufman Purcell  [ ]       [ ]

                                           06 - W. E. "Bill" Bradford      [ ]       [ ]

B  ISSUES
The Board of Directors recommends a vote FOR the following resolutions.
                                                        FOR   AGAINST   ABSTAIN
2. Ratification of Ernst and Young LLP as auditors      [ ]     [ ]       [ ]
   for 2002.


C  AUTHORIZED SIGNATURES - SIGN HERE - THIS SECTION MUST BE COMPLETED FOR YOUR
   INSTRUCTIONS TO BE EXECUTED.

I (we) hereby revoke all proxies previously given to vote at the meeting; any
adjournments thereof and acknowledge receipt of the Notice of Annual Meeting and
Proxy Statement. If signing for a corporation or partnership or as agent,
attorney or fiduciary, indicate full title or capacity in which you are signing.

Signature 1                                 Signature 2                                 Date (dd/mm/yyyy)

- -----------------------------------------   -----------------------------------------   -----------------------------------------
                                                                                         [  ] [  ]/[  ] [  ]/[  ] [  ] [  ] [  ]
- -----------------------------------------   -----------------------------------------   -----------------------------------------

[ ]  A612                                     1 U P X                                                                            +

001CD40001  007S6D
</Table>


<PAGE>


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PROXY - VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTICE OF 2002 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS

The Board of Directors has determined that the 2002 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders of Valero Energy Corporation will be held on Thursday, May 9, 2002
at 10:00 a.m., Central Time, at Valero's corporate offices in San Antonio,
Texas, located at 6000 North Loop 1604 West, San Antonio, Texas 78249-1112, for
the following purposes:

         (1)      To elect two Class I directors to serve until the 2004 Annual
                  Meeting, four Class II directors to serve until the 2005
                  Annual Meeting, and one Class III director to serve until the
                  2003 Annual Meeting, or in each case until their respective
                  successors are elected and have qualified;

         (2)      To ratify the appointment of Ernst and Young LLP as
                  independent public accountants to examine Valero's accounts
                  for the year 2002; and

         (3)      To transact any other business properly brought before the
                  meeting.

EXPANSION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN CONNECTION WITH UDS MERGER

On December 31, 2001, Ultramar Diamond Shamrock Corporation ("UDS") merged with
and into Valero, with Valero as the surviving corporation of the merger. The
Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), dated as of May 6, 2001,
between Valero and UDS required in connection with the merger that Valero expand
its Board of Directors by up to four members and cause four members of the UDS
board of directors (collectively, the "UDS Board Designees") to be appointed to
Valero's Board of Directors. The Merger Agreement further required Valero to
nominate and recommend each of the UDS Board Designees for reelection to
Valero's Board of Directors at the May 9, 2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders,
with at least one UDS Board Designee serving in each of the three classes of
directors and with no more than two UDS Board Designees serving in the same
class of directors. Accordingly pursuant to the recommendation of the Nominating
Committee, made at its meeting on October 10, 2001, the Board of Directors at
its meeting on October 18, 2001, expanded the size of Valero's Board of
Directors and appointed the UDS Board Designees to Valero's Board of Directors,
effective upon the consummation of the merger on December 31, 2001. The UDS
Board Designees are Messrs. E. Glenn Biggs, W. E. "Bill" Bradford, W. H. Clark
and Bob Marbut. As per the proposals on the reverse side; "Proposal No. 1
Election of Directors," the Nominating Committee and the Board have also
nominated and recommended to the Stockholders that each UDS Board Designee be
reelected to Valero's Board of Directors. The class assignments for the UDS
Board Designees and Valero's other Board members are shown on the reverse side
under Proposal No. 1.



YOU CAN VOTE YOUR SHARES BY TELEPHONE OR INTERNET!

QUICK * EASY * IMMEDIATE * AVAILABLE 24 HOURS A DAY * 7 DAYS A WEEK

VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION encourages you to take advantage of convenient ways to
vote your shares. If voting by proxy, you may vote by mail, or choose one of the
two methods described below. Your telephone or Internet vote authorizes the
named proxies to vote your shares in the same manner as if you marked, signed,
and returned your proxy card. To vote by telephone or Internet, read the 2001
proxy statement and then follow these easy steps:

<Table>
<S>                                                                    <C>

TO VOTE BY PHONE                                                       TO VOTE BY INTERNET

o Call toll free 1-877-482-6151 in the United States or Canada         o Go to the following web site:
  any time on a touch tone telephone.  There is NO CHARGE                www.computershare.com/us/proxy
  to you for the call.

o Enter the 6-digit CONTROL NUMBER located below.                      o Enter the information requested on your computer screen,
                                                                         including your 6-digit CONTROL NUMBER located below.

Option #1: To vote as the Board of Directors recommends on the
           proposals: Press 1                                          o Follow the simple instructions on the screen. There is NO
                                                                         CHARGE to you to vote.
           When asked, confirm your vote by pressing 1

Option #2: If you choose to vote on the proposals separately,
           press 0 and follow the simple recorded instructions.
</Table>

CONTROL NUMBER

IF YOU VOTE BY TELEPHONE OR THE INTERNET, DO NOT MAIL BACK THE PROXY CARD.

THANK YOU FOR VOTING

007S7C


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
