SAN  FRANCISCO  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  1223  07389  4769 


FINAL    ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT 


r 

/ 


491  Bayshore  Boulevard, 

Home  Depot         documents  dept. 

200L0062E  AUG  - 14  2006 

State  Clearinghouse  No.  2000032010 

SAN  FRANCISCO 
PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

VOLUME  1 


Draft  EIR  Publication  Date:  March  29,  2003 
Draft  EIR  Public  Hearing  Date:  July  10,  2003 
Draft  EIR  Public  Comment  Period:  March  29  -  July  11,  2003 
Final  EIR  Certification  Date:  July  28,  2005 


Changes  from  the  text  of  the  Draft  EIR  are  indicated  by  solid  dots  (•) 
at  the  beginning  of  each  revised  section,  paragraph,  graphic,  or  table. 
Specific  edits  (with  new  and  deleted  changes)  are  shown  in  Chapter  VII 

Section  E. 


5/S 


San  Francisco  Public  Library 

Government  Information  Center 
San  Francisco  Public  Library 
100  Larkin  Street,  5th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

REFERENCE  BOOK 

Not  to  be  taken  from  the  Library 


City  and  County  of  San  Francisco 
Planning  Department 


Volume  1 


491  BAYSHORE  BOULEVARD, 
HOME  DEPOT  

FINAL 

ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT 
2001.0062E 

State  Clearinghouse  No.  2000032010 


Draft  EIR  Publication  Date:  March  29,  2003 

Draft  EIR  Public  Hearing  Date:  July  1 0,  2003 

Draft  EIR  Public  Comment  Period:  March  29  -  July  1 1 ,  2003 

Final  EIR  Certification  Date:  July  28,  2005 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2014 


https://archive.org/details/491bayshoreboule2820sanf 


491  Bayshore  Boulevard,  Home  Depot 
•  Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


Table  of  Contents 

Page 

•  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commission  Certification  Motion  No.  17071   iii 

I.  Summary  1 

A.  Introduction  1 

B.  Project  Description  1 

C.  Main  Environmental  Effects  3 

D.  Mitigation  Measures  11 

E.  Significant  Impacts  16 

F.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project  17 

G.  Areas  of  Controversy  and  Issues  to  be  Resolved  23 

II.  Project  Description  25 

A.  Project  Sponsor's  Objectives  25 

B.  Project  Location  25 

C.  Project  Characteristics  26 

D.  Project  Approval  Requirements  33 

III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts  35 

A.  Land  Use,  Zoning  and  General  Plan  Consistency  35 

B.  Transportation  42 

C.  Air  Quality  81 

D.  Hazardous  Materials  93 

E.  Cultural  Resources  101 

F.  Growth  Inducement  103 

IV.  Mitigation  Measures  Proposed  to  Minimize 

the  Potential  Adverse  Impacts  of  the  Project  105 

V.  Significant  Environmental  Effects  Which  Cannot  be 

Avoided  if  the  Proposed  Project  is  Implemented  1 13 

VI.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project  115 

•  VII.    Comments  and  Responses  129 

A.  Introduction  C&R.  1 

B.  Preferred  Plan  C&R.3 

C.  List  of  Persons  Commenting  C&R.  1 5 

D.  Comments  and  Responses  C&R. 20 

E.  Staff-Initiated  Text  Changes  and  Errata  C&R.358 

•  VIII.    EIR  Authors  133 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  i  July  28, 2005 


Table  of  Contents 


List  of  Figures 

Page 

•  Figure  1       Project  Location  27 

•  Figure  2       Site  Plan  28 

Figure  3        Ground  Level  Plan  29 

Figure  4       Second  Level  Plan  30 

Figure  5       Rooftop  Parking  Plan  3 1 

Figure  6       Elevations  32 

•  Figure  7       Zoning  Districts  36 

Figure  8       Project  Views  38 

Figure  9       Project  Views  39 

•  Figure  10      Roadway  Network  and  Intersections  Analysis  Locations  46 

•  Figure  1 1      Existing  Transit  Network   52 

Figure  12      Proposed  Traffic  Improvements  63 

List  of  Tables 

Table  1        Freeway  On-Ramp  Levels  of  Service,  Existing  and  Existing  Plus  Project  Conditions  47 

Table  2        Intersection  Levels  of  Service,  Existing  and  Existing  Plus  Project  Conditions  49 

Table  3        Queuing  Analysis  at  Bayshore/Cortland  Intersections,  Existing  and 

Existing  Plus  Project  Conditions  67 

Table  4        Freeway  On-Ramp  Levels  of  Service  with  Project,  Existing  Plus  Project  and 

2015  Cumulative  Conditions  78 

Table  5        Intersection  Levels  of  Service  with  Project,  Existing  Plus  Project  Conditions  and 

2015  Cumulative  Conditions  78 

Table  6        Proposed  Project's  Contribution  to  Traffic  Volumes,  2015  Conditions  - 

Weekday  PM  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours  80 

Table  7        State  and  Federal  Ambient  Air  Quality  Standards  82 

•      Table  8        San  Francisco  Air  Pollutant  Summary,  1999-2002  85 

Table  9        Existing  and  Projected  Curbside  Carbon  Monoxide  Concentrations  at  Selected 

Intersections  91 

Table  10       Project  Regional  Emissions  in  Pounds  Per  Day   92 

Table  1 1       Comparison  of  Alternatives,  Intersection  Levels  of  Service  1 18 

Table  12       Comparison  of  Alternatives,  Intersection  Levels  of  Service,  2015  Cumulative  Conditions  1 19 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street  ii  July  28, 2005 


Certification  Motion 


July  28,  2005 


File  No:  2001.0062E 

49 1  Bayshore  Boulevard 

Assessor's  Block  5598,  Lots  8,  9,  1 1,  13,  15, 

16,  18,21  and  28 


SAN  FRANCISCO 
CITY  PLANNING  COMMISSION 
MOTION  NO.  17071 


ADOPTING  FINDINGS  RELATED  TO  THE  CERTIFICATION  OF  A  FINAL 
ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT  FOR  THE  PROPOSED  491  BAYSHORE 
BOULEVARD  PROJECT  -  A  1 53,098  SQUARE  FOOT  HOME  DEPOT 

MOVED,  That  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Commission  (hereinafter  "Commission")  hereby 
CERTIFIES  the  Final  Environmental  Impact  Report  identified  as  case  file  No.  2001.0062ED,  491 
Bayshore  Boulevard  Project  (hereinafter  "Project")  based  upon  the  following  findings: 

1)  The  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  acting  through  the  Planning  Department  (hereinafter 
"Department"),  fulfilled  all  procedural  requirements  of  the  California  Environmental  Quality  Act  (Cal. 
Pub.  Res.  Code  Section  21000  et  seq.,  hereinafter  "CEQA"),  the  State  CEQA  Guidelines  (Cal.  Admin. 
Code  Title  14,  Section  15000  et  seq.,  hereinafter  "CEQA  Guidelines"),  and  Chapter  31  of  the  San 
Francisco  Administrative  Code  (hereinafter  "Chapter  31"). 

a.  The  Department  determined  that  an  Environmental  Impact  Report  (hereinafter  "EIR") 
was  required  and  provided  public  notice  of  that  determination  by  publication  in  a  newspaper  of  general 
circulation  on  March  9,  2002. 

b.  On  March  29,  2003,  the  Department  published  the  Draft  Environmental  Impact  Report 
(hereinafter  "DEIR")  and  provided  public  notice  in  a  newspaper  of  general  circulation  of  the  availability 
of  the  DEIR  for  public  review  and  comment  and  of  the  date  and  time  of  the  Planning  Commission  public 
hearing  on  the  DEIR;  this  notice  was  mailed  to  the  Department's  list  of  persons  requesting  such  notice. 

c.  Notices  of  Availability  of  the  DEIR  and  of  the  date  and  time  of  the  public  hearing  were 
posted  near  the  project  site  on  or  about  March  29,  2003. 

d.  On  March  29,  2003,  copies  of  the  DEIR  were  delivered  to  the  State  Clearinghouse  for 
distribution  to  government  agencies.  On  March  29,  2003,  copies  of  the  DEIR  were  mailed  or  otherwise 
delivered  to  a  list  of  persons  requesting  it,  to  those  noted  on  the  distribution  list  in  the  DEIR,  to  adjacent 
property  owners,  and  to  government  agencies. 

e.  Notice  of  Completion  was  filed  with  the  State  Secretary  of  Resources  via  the  State 
Clearinghouse  on  March  29,  2003. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


iii 


July  28,  2005 


Certification  Motion 


CITY  PLANNING  COMMISSION 


File  No:  2001.0062ED 

491  Bayshore  Boulevard 

Assessor's  Block  5598,  Lots  8,  9,  1 1,  13,  15, 

16,  18,21  and  28 

Motion  No.  17071 

Page  2  of  3 


2)  The  Commission  held  a  duly  advertised  public  hearing  on  said  DEIR  on  July  10,  2003,  at  which 
opportunity  for  public  comment  was  given,  and  public  comment  was  received  on  the  DEIR.  The  period 
for  acceptance  of  written  comments  ended  on  July  11,  2003. 

3)  The  Department  prepared  responses  to  comments  on  environmental  issues  received  at  the  public 
hearing  and  in  writing  during  the  public  review  period  for  the  DEIR,  prepared  revisions  to  the  text  of  the 
DEIR  in  response  to  comments  received  or  based  on  additional  information  that  became  available  during 
the  public  review  period,  and  corrected  errors  in  the  DEIR  This  material  was  presented  in  the 
"Comments  and  Responses"  published  on  June  28,  2005,  which  was  distributed  to  the  Commission  and 
to  all  parties  who  commented  on  the  DEIR,  and  was  available  to  others  upon  request  at  Department 
offices. 

4)  A  Final  Environmental  Impact  Report  (hereinafter  "FEIR")  has  been  prepared  by  the 
Department,  consisting  of  the  DEIR,  any  consultations  and  comments  received  during  the  review  process, 
and  the  Comments  and  Responses  all  as  required  by  law.  Since  publication  of  the  DEIR,  no  new 
information  of  significance  has  become  available  that  would  require  recirculation  of  the  EIR  under 
CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15088.5. 

5)  Project  Environmental  Impact  Report  files  have  been  made  available  for  review  by  the 
Commission  and  the  public.  These  files  are  available  for  public  review  by  appointment  at  the 
Department  offices  at  1660  Mission  Street,  and  are  part  of  the  record  before  the  Commission. 

6)  On  July  28,  2005,  the  Commission  reviewed  and  considered  the  FEIR  and  hereby  does  find  that 
the  contents  of  said  report  and  the  procedures  through  which  the  FEIR  was  prepared,  publicized  and 
reviewed  comply  with  the  provisions  of  CEQA,  the  CEQA  Guidelines  and  Chapter  3 1 . 

7)  The  Planning  Commission  hereby  does  find  that  the  FEIR  concerning  File  No.  2001.0062ED: 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard  Project  reflects  the  independent  judgment  and  analysis  of  the  City  and  County 
of  San  Francisco,  is  adequate,  accurate  and  objective,  and  that  the  Comments  and  Responses  contains  no 
significant  revisions  to  the  DEIR,  and  hereby  does  CERTIFY  THE  COMPLETION  of  said  Final 
Environmental  Impact  Report  in  compliance  with  CEQA  and  the  CEQA  Guidelines. 

8)  The  Commission,  in  certifying  the  completion  of  said  FEIR,  hereby  does  find  that  the  proposed 
project  described  and  evaluated  in  the  EIR  and  as  preferred  by  the  project  sponsor  would  have  the 
following  unavoidable  significant  environmental  impacts  that  could  not  be  mitigated  to  a  level  of  non- 
significance: 

(a)  The  Project  would  exceed  the  BAAQMD  threshold  of  significance  for  regional  emissions  of 
reactive  organic  gases  (ROG).  This  is  both  an  unmitigable  project-level  impact  and  an 
unmitigable  cumulative  impact. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


July  28,  2005 


Certification  Motion 


CITY  PLANNING  COMMISSION  File  No:  2001.0062ED 

491  Bayshore  Boulevard 
Assessor's  Block  5598,  Lots  8,  9,  1 1,  13,  15, 
16,  18,21  and  28 
Motion  No.  17071 
Page  3  of  3 


(b)  The  Project  would  have  a  significant  immitigable  contribution  to  the  2015  adverse 
cumulative  conditions  on  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  northbound  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/ 
Industrial  Street;  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  southbound  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/ 
Industrial  Street;  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  northbound  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar 
Chavez  Street;  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  southbound  on-ramp  at  San  Bruno  Avenue;  and  the 
1-280  Freeway  westbound  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard. 

I  hereby  certify  that  the  foregoing  Motion  was  ADOPTED  by  the  Planning  Commission  at  its  regular 
meeting  of  July  28,  2005. 


Linda  Avery 
Commission  Secretary 

AYES:  +4 
NOES:  -2 

ABSENT:  D.Alexander 
ACTION:  Certification  of  EIR 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


V 


July  28, 2005 


200 1.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street  vi  July  28  2005 


I.  SUMMARY 


A.  INTRODUCTION 

This  is  the  Environmental  Impact  Report  (EIR)  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  California 
Environmental  Quality  Act  (CEQA)  for  the  proposed  demolition  of  two  vacant  buildings  at  491 
Bay  shore  Boulevard  /l  96  Loomis  Street  between  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Loomis  Street  at  Waterloo 
Street,  and  the  construction  of  an  approximately  153,089  square-foot  (sq.-ft.)  home  improvement 
center  and  a  separate  parking  garage  for  about  539  parking  spaces. 

An  application  for  environmental  evaluation  for  the  Home  Depot  Project  (the  "Project")  was  filed  on 
January  23,  2001.  On  the  basis  of  the  Initial  Study  published  on  March  9,  2002,  the  San  Francisco 
Planning  Department  determined  that  an  EIR  is  required.  (See  Appendix  A  -  Initial  Study.)  This 
EIR  is  intended  to  provide  information  on  the  environmental  effects  concerning  the  proposed  491 
Bayshore  Boulevard  /l 96  Loomis  Street  Home  Depot  Project  to  allow  the  San  Francisco  Planning 
Commission  to  make  an  informed  decision  on  the  project.1 

B.  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

The  project  site  is  a  rectangular  lot  on  the  east  side  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  west  side  of  Loomis 
Street  in  the  northwest  portion  of  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area  of  San  Francisco,  adjacent  to  the 
Bernal  Heights  neighborhood.  The  249,699  sq.-ft.  site  (approximately  5.73  acres)  currently  contains 
two  vacant  buildings:  an  approximately  76,846  sq.-ft.  former  home  improvement  and  building 
supply  store  (Goodman  Lumber  Company),  and  a  former  retail  home  furnishing  and  supply  store 


A  Preliminary  Mitigated  Negative  Declaration  was  published  on  September  29,  2001,  and 
appealed  to  the  Planning  Commission.  Upon  further  analysis,  the  Planning  Department  determined  that  an 
Environmental  Impact  Report  (EIR)  was  required.  The  issues  raised  in  the  appeals  will  be  addressed  in  the 
EIR. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


1 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


(Whole  Earth  Access),  at  approximately  30,500  sq.ft.  (total  107,346  sq.ft.).  The  site  is  relatively  flat 
with  a  slight  downward  slope  to  the  east. 

The  project  sponsor,  Home  Depot,  proposes  to  construct  a  two-story,  approximately  153,089  sq.-ft. 
home  improvement  center  with  approximately  96,250  sq.ft.  on  the  main  floor,  38,405  sq.ft.  on  the 
second  floor,  and  an  approximately  8,546  sq.-ft.  outdoor  garden  center  plus  a  9,888  sq.-ft.,  enclosed 
greenhouse.  An  approximately  235,597  sq.-ft.  parking  garage  consisting  of  two  levels  with  rooftop 
parking  totaling  539  parking  spaces  would  also  be  constructed  as  a  separate  structure.  The  buildings 
would  be  approximately  40  feet  in  height.  Vehicular  access  to  the  parking  garage  would  be  from 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  where  Cortland  Avenue  dead-ends  into  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  secondary 
access  would  be  on  Loomis  and  Waterloo  Streets.  A  customer  pick-up  lane  would  be  provided  on 
the  ground  level  of  the  parking  facility  with  egress  onto  Bayshore  Boulevard,  just  north  of  the 
Cortland  Avenue  intersection.  Four  general  freight-loading  spaces  would  be  provided.  Traffic 
signals  and  pedestrian  crosswalks  would  be  installed  at  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue,  a 
left-turn  pocket  would  be  created  for  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  traffic  to  enter  the  project  site, 
the  median  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  just  north  of  the  project  site  would  be  changed  to  allow 
northbound  traffic  to  make  U-turns,  and  the  existing  northbound  left-turn  pocket  would  be  extended. 

Following  completion  and  certification  of  the  Final  EIR,  the  project  would  require  the  following 
approvals: 

•  Department  of  Public  Works  approval  for  curb  cuts  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Loomis 
Street. 

•  Planning  Department  staff-initiated  discretionary  review  before  the  Planning  Commission. 

•  Department  of  Building  Inspection  approvals  of  demolition  and  building  permits. 

•  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  and  the  Interdepartmental  Staff  Committee  on  Traffic  and 
Transportation  (ISCOTT)  approval  for  the  installation  of  new  traffic  signals  and  pedestrian 
crosswalks  at  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue,  the  creation  and  extension  of  north 
and  south  bound  left-turn  pockets  on  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  the  change  to  the  median  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard. 

•  Board  of  Supervisors  approval  of  the  southbound  Bayshore  left-turn  pocket  and  changes  to 
median  on  Bayshore  Boulevard. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


2 


July  28,  2005 


[.  Summary 


C.    MAIN  ENVIRONMENTAL  EFFECTS 

This  EIR  for  the  Project  focuses  on  the  issues  of  transportation  and  air  quality.  All  other  potential 
environmental  effects  were  found  to  be  at  a  less-than-significant  level  or  to  be  mitigated  to  a  less- 
than-significant  level  with  mitigation  measures  to  be  implemented  by  the  project  sponsor.  (Please 
see  the  Initial  Study,  included  in  this  document  as  Appendix  A,  for  analysis  of  other  environmental 
issues.)  In  addition,  this  EIR  discusses  land  use,  zoning  and  general  plan  consistency,  hazards,  and 
cultural  resources  for  informational  purposes,  although  these  impacts  were  found  to  be  less-than- 
significant  in  the  Initial  Study. 

Land  Use,  Zoning  and  General  Plan  Consistency  (page  35) 

The  project  site  is  within  an  M-l  (Light  Industrial)  Zoning  District  and  a  65-J  Height  and  Bulk 
District.  The  San  Francisco  Planning  Code  describes  the  M-l  District  as  providing  lands  for 
industrial  development  that,  in  general,  are  more  suitable  for  smaller  industries  dependent  upon  truck 
transportation.  In  M-l  Districts,  most  industries  are  permitted,  but  some  with  particularly  noxious 
characteristics  are  excluded.  The  permitted  uses  in  M-l  Districts  have  certain  requirements  as  to 
enclosure,  screening  and  minimum  distance  from  Residential  Districts. 

In  January  2002,  the  Planning  Commission  established  an  Industrial  Protection  Zone  Special  Use 
District  (IPZSUD)  to  protect  and  preserve  production,  distribution  and  repair  land  uses  and  activities 
from  competing  higher  priced  land  uses  and  activities  in  some  parts  of  the  City.  The  proposed 
project  site  is  within  the  IPZSUD,  and  the  project  would  be  a  permitted  use. 

The  project  site  is  in  the  northwest  portion  of  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  neighborhood,  near  the 
eastern  border  of  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood.  The  buildings  in  the  general  area  range  from  one 
to  two  stories,  are  large  in  mass/bulk,  with  a  mix  of  commercial  activity,  both  industrial  and  retail  in 
character.  Some  of  the  uses  located  immediately  adjacent  to  the  project  site  include  fast  food, 
grocery,  home  improvement,  auto  body  repair,  and  warehouse.  In  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site, 
U.S.  101  has  north-  and  southbound  off-ramps  at  Silver  Avenue,  and  1-280  has  on-  and  off-ramps 
west  of  Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street.  U.S.  101  and  1-280  merge  at  Cesar  Chavez  Street  just 
south  of  the  project  site  at  the  Alemany  interchange. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshorc/1 96  Loomis  Street 


3 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


The  proposed  project  would  be  a  large  development  containing  some  of  the  previous  uses  on  the  site, 
and  would  increase  the  density  of  uses,  number  of  customers  and  amount  of  vehicles  on  the  site.  The 
proposed  project,  however,  would  not  essentially  change  the  existing  retail/light  industrial  character 
or  physical  arrangement  of  the  area.  The  use  would  be  generally  compatible  with  the  mix  of 
surrounding  commercial  and  industrial  uses  in  a  dense  urban  area. 

Transportation  (page  42) 

The  transportation  study  performed  for  the  proposed  project  reviewed  conditions  at  five  freeway  on- 
ramps  and  fourteen  key  intersections  (signalized  and  stop-sign  controlled)  in  the  vicinity  of  the 
project  site.  During  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  four  of  the  five  study  freeway  on-ramps  operate  at 
LOS  C.  However,  the  1-280  westbound  on-ramp  from  Alemany  Boulevard  currently  operates  at 
LOS  F  due  to  the  high  volume  of  commute  traffic  exiting  San  Francisco  during  this  time  period. 
During  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  four  of  the  five  study  freeway  on-ramps  operate  at  LOS  B  or 
C.  The  U.S.  101  northbound  on-ramp  from  Bayshore/Cesar  Chavez,  however,  currently  operates  at 
LOS  F  due  to  high  traffic  volumes  on  the  freeway  and  the  general  traffic  congestion  on  U.S.  101/1-80 
through  downtown  San  Francisco. 

During  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  all  signalized  intersections  operate  with  acceptable  operating 
conditions  (LOS  D  or  better).  In  addition,  at  the  four  STOP-controlled  intersections,  the  worst 
STOP-controlled  approaches  all  operate  with  acceptable  conditions.  During  the  Saturday  midday 
peak  hour,  all  signalized  intersections  and  all  worst  approaches  at  the  STOP-controlled  intersections 
operate  at  LOS  D  or  better. 

Overall,  the  proposed  project  would  generate  848  vehicle-trips  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour 
(generally  5:00  to  6:00  p.m.),  of  which  409  vehicle-trips  would  be  inbound  to  the  site  and  439 
vehicle-trips  would  be  outbound  from  the  site.  During  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (primarily 
12:00  to  1:00  p.m.),  the  proposed  project  would  generate  about  1,268  vehicle-trips,  of  which  657 
vehicle-trips  would  be  inbound  and  611  vehicle-trips  would  be  outbound.  During  the  weekday  peak 
hour  of  activity  (usually  in  the  midday),  the  proposed  project  would  generate  about  1,060  vehicle- 
trips,  of  which  551  vehicle-trips  would  be  inbound  and  509  vehicle-trips  would  be  outbound. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


4 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


The  addition  of  the  vehicle-trips  generated  by  the  proposed  project  would  not  change  the  operating 
conditions  at  the  study  locations  for  either  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  or  the  Saturday  midday  peak 
hour  analyses.  All  analysis  freeway  on-ramps  would  continue  to  operate  at  the  same  levels  of  service 
as  under  existing  conditions. 

Although  the  overall  levels  of  service  would  remain  similar,  the  increase  in  vehicles  destined  to  and 
from  the  proposed  project  would  result  in  a  moderate  increase  in  delay  at  individual  movements  at 
several  study  intersections.  As  such,  vehicles  making  these  movements  may  experience  somewhat 
higher  delays  than  vehicles  at  the  intersection  as  a  whole,  but  these  impacts  would  not  be  enough  to 
constitute  significant  impacts.  The  increase  in  delay  at  these  individual  movements  would  not  result 
in  the  intersection  operating  at  unacceptable  service  levels.  In  addition,  the  proposed  project  would 
also  result  in  increases  in  traffic  volumes  at  several  movements  at  the  study  intersections.  The 
increased  volume  would  not  increase  the  average  delay  per  vehicle  at  the  individual  movements  or 
the  intersections  as  a  whole. 

To  supplement  the  analysis  of  the  intersection  operating  conditions,  a  queuing  analysis  was 
performed  for  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  the  weekday  midday  peak  hour,  and  the  Saturday  midday 
peak  hour  of  activity  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland,  where  the  main  project  driveway 
would  be  located.  At  the  southbound  left-turn  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  project  driveway, 
average  queues  would  be  about  50  to  100  feet  long.  As  a  result,  the  proposed  left-turn  pocket  of  180 
feet  would  be  sufficient  to  accommodate  the  left-turning  queues. 

At  the  northbound  left-turn  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  westbound  Cortland  Avenue,  the  pocket  is 
about  140  feet  long.  On  average,  the  queues  that  would  develop  as  a  result  of  the  project  could  still 
be  accommodated  within  the  existing  pocket.  There  would  be  times,  however,  that  the  queues  would 
extend  past  the  existing  pocket,  potentially  affecting  operations  of  the  adjacent  northbound  through 
lane.  To  reduce  this  potential,  as  part  of  the  project,  the  northbound  left-turn  pocket  would  be 
extended  by  at  least  70  feet  (to  a  total  length  of  210  feet)  by  carving  additional  length  from  the  center 
concrete  island. 

At  the  eastbound  approach  of  Cortland  Avenue  to  Bayshore  Boulevard,  the  maximum  queues  that 
currently  develop  extend  about  105  to  160  feet  (up  to  the  U.S.  101  overpass).  With  the  proposed 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


5 


July  28, 2005 


I.  Summary 


project,  the  addition  of  project- related  traffic  and  adjustments  to  the  signal  timing  would  result  in  the 
lengthening  of  the  eastbound  queue.  Without  improvement  measures  for  changes  on  Cortland 
Avenue,  the  average  queues  would  be  about  185  feet  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  275  feet 
during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (both  of  which  would  extend  underneath  the  U.S.  101 
overpass).  The  95th  percentile  queues  would  be  about  210  feet  long  during  the  weekday  midday 
peak  hour  of  activity,  305  feet  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  460  feet  during  the  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour.  This  95th  percentile  queue  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  would  extend 
to  the  intersection  of  Cortland/Peralta. 

The  proposed  project  would  generate  relatively  few  transit  trips  on  weekdays  and  weekends,  as 
transit  trips  to  and  from  the  proposed  project  would  generally  be  limited  to  employees  or  customers 
from  the  nearby  area.  As  such,  there  is  not  anticipated  to  be  an  adverse  increase  in  the  number  of 
riders  on  the  adjacent  transit  lines  as  a  result  of  the  proposed  project. 

The  proposed  project  would  be  required  to  provide  503  off-street  parking  spaces  per  the  San 
Francisco  Planning  Code.  In  addition,  the  proposed  project  would  have  a  maximum  parking  demand 
(for  both  customers  and  employees)  of  502  spaces  during  the  weekday  midday  peak  period  and  539 
spaces  during  the  weekend  midday  peak  period.  Since  the  proposed  project  would  include  539 
parking  spaces,  it  would  meet  the  Planning  Code  requirements  and  meet  the  anticipated  parking 
demand. 

Due  to  the  nature  of  Home  Depot  business,  it  is  not  anticipated  that  many  customers  would  walk  to 
access  the  proposed  project,  although  some  employees  may  walk  to  and  from  work.  As  such,  with 
the  development  of  the  proposed  project,  the  number  of  pedestrian  trips  would  only  slightly  increase 
in  the  nearby  vicinity.  The  anticipated  increase  in  additional  pedestrians  in  the  area  could  be 
accommodated  on  the  existing  sidewalks  and  crosswalks.  As  these  facilities  currently  have  relatively 
low  pedestrian  volumes,  pedestrian  conditions  would  continue  to  remain  acceptable. 

Based  on  information  from  a  similar  Home  Depot  store,  it  was  estimated  that  the  proposed  project 
would  generate  30  daily  delivery  trips  per  day  (approximately  15  semi  tractor-trailers  and  15  small 
trucks/vans).  The  Project  Sponsor  has  estimated  that  there  would  be  a  peak  demand  for  four  loading 
docks  (two  long-term  and  two  short-term)  at  the  proposed  project.  The  San  Francisco  Planning  Code 
requires  that  the  proposed  project  provide  four  off-street  loading  spaces.  The  proposed  project  would 


2001 .0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


6 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


provide  four  loading  docks  in  an  area  located  at  the  northeast  corner  of  the  site,  plus  a  separate 
customer  loading  area.  As  such,  the  proposed  supply  of  four  loading  docks  would  meet  the 
anticipated  demand  and  Planning  Code  requirements. 

Project  construction  is  expected  to  take  about  16  months,  with  staging  of  most  construction 
equipment  and  materials  occurring  within  the  project  site  and  on  Loomis  Street,  and  would  have 
minimal  impact  on  other  adjacent  streets.  Throughout  the  construction  period,  there  would  be  a  flow 
of  construction-related  trucks  into  and  out  of  the  site.  During  the  peak  construction  period,  there  are 
estimated  to  be  30  to  40  workers  per  day  at  the  site.  It  is  anticipated  that  the  addition  of  worker- 
related  vehicle  or  transit  trips  would  not  substantially  affect  the  transportation  conditions.  It  is 
expected  that  the  Muni  bus  stop  located  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  directly  in  front  of  the  vacant 
Goodman  Lumber  building  may  need  to  be  temporarily  relocated  during  some  construction  phases  of 
the  proposed  project.  During  these  times,  if  it  were  determined  that  a  temporary  Muni  bus  stop 
relocation  would  be  needed,  it  would  be  coordinated  with  the  Muni  Street  Operations/Special  Events 
office. 

By  the  year  2015,  cumulative  traffic  would  result  in  an  increase  in  congestion  on  U.S.  101, 1-280  and 
the  nearby  on-ramps.  The  increase  in  cumulative  traffic  would  cause  all  five  study  on-ramp  locations 
to  operate  at  LOS  F  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  two  of  the  on-ramp  locations  to  operate  at 
LOS  F  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  At  these  locations,  there  would  be  the  potential  for 
frequent  breakdowns  to  occur  along  the  freeway,  and  for  substantial  queues  to  form  on  the  on-ramps 
due  to  the  volume  of  traffic  on  the  freeway.  The  new  vehicle-trips  generated  by  the  proposed  project 
would  contribute  to  the  poor  operating  conditions  at  the  LOS  F  on-ramps. 

To  alleviate  poor  operating  conditions  on  U.S.  101, 1-280  and  the  study  on-ramps,  additional  freeway 
mainline  capacity  would  be  needed.  In  general,  the  provision  of  additional  lanes  on  the  on-ramps,  or 
individual  on-ramp  improvements  (such  as  wider  shoulders  or  longer  acceleration  lanes)  would  not 
allow  for  more  vehicles  to  enter  the  freeway  without  additional  improvements  to  the  freeway 
mainlines.  Likewise,  the  implementation  of  ramp-metering  would  not  improve  on-ramp  operations, 
since  metering  reduces  the  traffic  volumes  that  can  enter  the  freeway.  Consequently,  the  proposed 
project's  contribution  to  the  poor  on-ramp  conditions  would  be  considered  a  significant  unavoidable 
cumulative  impact. 


200I.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


7 


July  28,  2005 


[.  Summary 


For  the  cumulative  traffic  conditions  in  the  year  2015,  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  the  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour  study  intersections  would  all  operate  acceptably  (LOS  D  or  better),  except  the 
intersection  of  Mission/Cortland,  which  would  operate  at  LOS  F. 

Under  2015  cumulative  conditions,  the  Mission/Cortland  intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  F  during 
both  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  The  poor  operating  conditions 
would  be  due  to  the  increase  in  overall  cumulative  traffic  volumes  at  the  intersection,  which  would 
make  it  difficult  for  vehicles  to  turn  left  from  southbound  Mission  Street  to  Cortland  Avenue.  The 
project's  contribution  to  this  adverse  condition  would  be  significant.  However,  operations  of  this  left 
turn  movement  could  be  improved  by  creating  a  left-turn  only  phase  in  the  traffic  signal  plan  (left- 
turns  would  still  be  permitted  during  the  northbound/southbound  phase).  With  this  mitigation 
measure,  the  intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  C  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  LOS  D 
during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour. 

Air  Quality  (page  81) 

Air  quality  impacts  would  result  from  project  construction  and  operation.  Construction  emissions, 
primarily  dust  generated  by  earthmoving  activities  and  criteria  air  pollutants  emitted  by  construction 
vehicles,  would  have  a  short-term  effect  on  air  quality.  Operational  emissions,  generated  by  project- 
related  traffic  and  by  combustion  of  natural  gas  for  building  space  and  water  heating,  would  affect  air 
quality  throughout  the  lifetime  of  the  project.  Transportation  sources,  such  as  project-generated 
vehicles,  would  account  for  over  90  percent  of  operational  project-related  emissions.  Stationary 
source  emissions  would  be  less-than-significant. 

Carbon  monoxide  (CO)  concentrations  were  modeled  for  project-generated  traffic  at  the  four  nearby 
intersections  that  meet  the  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  criteria.  The  predicted  one- 
hour  and  eight-hour  averaged  CO  concentrations  would  be  below  the  applicable  state/federal 
standards.  Therefore,  impacts  on  local  air  quality  would  be  less  than  significant. 

Regional  emissions  from  auto  travel  of  reactive  hydrocarbons  and  oxides  of  nitrogen  (two  precursors 
of  ozone),  and  PMi0  (particulate  matter,  10  micron)  can  affect  regional  air  quality  outside  the  project 
vicinity.  The  project-generated  increase  in  vehicle  emissions  would  exceed  the  BAAQMD  threshold 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


8 


July  28, 2005 


[.  Summary 


of  significance  for  emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases  (ROG),  and  would  be  considered  to  have  a 
significant  adverse  environmental  effect  on  regional  air  quality. 

Project  impacts  related  to  toxic  air  contaminants  (diesel  exhaust  particulate)  would  be  well  below  the 
BAAQMD  thresholds  of  significance  and  would  be  less-than-significant. 

Hazardous  Materials  (page  93) 

Lead  concentrations  and  chromium  exceeding  the  hazardous  waste  threshold  were  detected  in  the 
subsurface  soil  at  the  site.  The  presence  of  lead  and  chromium  contamination  could  present  a  health 
risk  to  construction  workers  if  not  properly  handled  during  excavation.  In  addition,  chromium  and 
lead-impacted  soil  that  is  excavated  from  the  site  could  present  substantial  human  health  risks  if 
improperly  disposed  or  reused  in  areas  that  may  result  in  human  contact.  Mitigation  would  consist  of 
the  removal  of  hazardous  substances  and  their  disposal  at  an  approved  disposal  site,  or  other 
appropriate  mitigation.  Site  Mitigation  Plans  (SMP)  have  been  submitted  to  the  appropriate  city  or 
federal  agencies  and  would  be  revised  before  a  building  permit  is  issued.  Compliance  with  an 
approved  SMP  and  existing  regulations  would  reduce  any  potential  impacts  related  to  contaminated 
soil  or  groundwater  to  a  less-than-significant  level. 

The  existing  buildings  on  the  project  site  were  constructed  in  the  1950s  and  1960s,  a  period  of  time 
when  asbestos  was  used  in  buildings.  Asbestos  materials  may  be  found  within  the  existing  structures 
on  site  that  are  proposed  to  be  demolished  as  part  of  the  project.  All  asbestos  identified  must  be 
removed  and  properly  disposed  of  prior  to  demolition  of  the  buildings.  Regulations  and  procedures 
already  established  as  part  of  the  permit  review  process  would  ensure  that  any  potential  impacts  due 
to  asbestos  would  be  reduced  to  a  less-than-significant  impact. 

Demolition  of  the  existing  buildings  could  create  exposure  to  lead-based  paint.  These  materials 
could  expose  workers  and  persons  in  close  proximity,  including  off-site  locations.  Compliance  with 
procedures  required  as  part  of  the  San  Francisco  Building  Code  would  ensure  that  potential  impacts 
due  to  lead-based  paint  would  be  reduced  to  a  less-than-significant  level. 

Improper  handling  or  disposal  of  discarded  equipment  (i.e.,  fluorescent  light  fixtures)  in  the  existing 
buildings  could  result  in  human  or  environmental  exposure  to  liquid  material  containing  PCBs. 


200I.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


9 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


Adherence  to  standard  precautionary  measures  would  reduce  the  potential  hazards  associated  with 
PCB  exposure  to  a  less-than-significant  level. 

Due  to  the  presence  of  contaminated  soil,  there  may  be  localized  areas  of  groundwater  contamination 
on  the  site  that  would  have  to  be  removed  (dewatered)  during  excavation  of  the  project.  Adherence 
to  the  San  Francisco  Industrial  Waste  Ordinance  would  minimize  public  health  exposure  to 
hazardous  materials  present  in  the  dewatering  discharge  and  reduce  potential  impacts  to  a  less-than- 
significant  level. 

Based  on  the  above,  with  mitigation,  the  proposed  project  would  not  result  in  significant  impacts 
related  to  hazardous  materials  located  on  the  project  site. 

Cultural  Resources  (page  101) 

The  project  site  is  generally  situated  in  what  was,  prior  to  the  arrival  of  the  first  Europeans,  the 
northwestern  portion  of  the  territory  occupied  by  the  Costanoan  people,  a  Native  American  group 
also  referred  to  in  anthropological  literature  as  the  Ohlone.  The  natural  setting  of  the  project  site, 
situated  amidst  the  salt-marshes  surrounding  Islais  Creek  on  the  interface  of  the  wet  and  dry 
environmental  zones,  was  a  generally  favorable  environmental  setting  for  the  encampments  of 
aboriginal  hunters  and  gatherers.  Although  no  prehistoric/protohistoric  resources  are  known  to  exist 
on  the  project  site,  numerous  archeological  sites  have  been  recorded  in  the  Islais  Creek  region. 

As  far  as  can  be  determined  from  historical  records,  the  area  surrounding  and  including  the  project 
site  remained  in  a  completely  natural  state  throughout  the  Spanish/Mexican  and  Gold  Rush  eras.  The 
marshy  tract  that  characterized  much  of  the  project  area  and  Islais  Creek  neighborhood  was  finally 
transformed  into  buildable  land  by  the  first  half  of  the  20th  Century.  It  was  not  until  the  1950s  that  a 
number  of  industries  and  businesses  began  to  occupy  this  area. 

Given  the  multiplicity  of  documented,  prehistoric  deposits  in  the  project  area,  the  project  site  should 
be  deemed  a  zone  of  high  prehistoric/protohistoric  archeological  sensitivity  and  a  mitigation  measure 
is  necessary  to  reduce  the  project's  potential  impact  on  subsurface  cultural  resources  to  a  level  of 
insignificance. 


2001 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


10 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


Growth  Inducement  (page  103) 

•  The  proposed  project  would  replace  two  existing  buildings,  totaling  107,372  sq.ft.,  with  an 
approximately  153,089  sq.-ft.  home  improvement  store  and  a  539-space  parking  garage.  This  would 
intensify  the  use  of  the  site,  but  would  not  be  expected  to  substantially  alter  development  patterns  in 
the  northwest  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area  or  elsewhere  in  San  Francisco.  The  project  site  is  in  an 
urbanized  area  that  is  intensively  developed  and  that  already  supports  substantial  amounts  of  light 
industrial,  warehouse,  commercial,  and  residential  development  in  surrounding  blocks. 

•  The  addition  of  the  home  improvement  store  and  parking  garage  would  increase  the  daily  population 
on  the  project  site  by  approximately  2,500  to  3,300  people.  This  daily  population  would  consist  of 
approximately  175  to  197  employees  and  as  many  as  2,500  to  3,000  shoppers  per  day.  It  is 
anticipated  that  most  of  the  new  employees  would  already  reside  in  San  Francisco,  while  some 
employees  from  outside  the  City  may  seek  housing  within  the  City  boundaries.  The  number  of  on- 
site  employees  relocating  from  outside  San  Francisco  would  be  small  in  proportion  to  San 
Francisco's  overall  population,  and  would  not  represent  a  substantial  growth  in  population  or 
concentration  in  the  neighborhood,  City,  or  region. 

The  proposed  project  is  located  in  an  urban  area  and  would  not  necessitate  or  induce  the  extension  of 
municipal  infrastructure.  The  project  may  induce  commercial  growth  in  the  area,  but  such  growth 
would  be  part  of  the  planned  growth  for  the  City.  Therefore,  the  proposed  project  would  not  have  a 
significant  effect  on  growth  inducement. 

D.    MITIGATION  MEASURES  (page  105) 

Measures  That  Would  Be  Implemented  by  Public  Agencies 

Transportation 

•  In  the  year  2015,  the  cumulative  conditions  at  the  Mission  Street/Cortland  Avenue 
intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  F  during  both  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour.  The  poor  operating  conditions  would  be  due  to  the  increase  in  overall 
traffic  volumes  at  the  intersection,  making  it  difficult  for  vehicles  to  turn  left  from 
southbound  Mission  Street  to  Cortland  Avenue.  The  project's  contribution  to  this  adverse 
condition  would  be  significant,  however,  operations  of  this  left  turn  movement  could  be 
improved  by  creating  a  left-turn  phase  (left-turns  would  be  permitted  during  the 
northbound/southbound  phase,  but  would  have  their  own  protected  left  turn  phase  as  well). 


200 1. 0062 E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


1  1 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


With  this  mitigation  measure,  the  intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  C  during  the  weekday 
PM  peak  hour  and  LOS  D  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  The  project  sponsor 
would  pay  for  the  costs  of  this  measure. 

Measures  Proposed  as  Part  of  the  Project 

Construction  Air  Quality 

The  project  sponsor  shall  require  the  construction  contractor(s)  to  spray  the  project  site  with 
water  during  excavation,  grading,  and  site  preparation  activities;  spray  unpaved  construction 
areas  with  water  at  least  twice  per  day;  cover  stockpiles  of  soil,  sand,  and  other  such  material; 
cover  trucks  hauling  debris,  soils,  sand  or  other  such  material;  and  sweep  surrounding  streets 
during  these  periods  at  least  once  per  day  to  reduce  particulate  emissions.  Ordinance  175-91, 
passed  by  the  Board  of  Supervisors  on  May  6,  1991,  requires  that  non-potable  water  be  used 
for  dust  control  activities.  Therefore,  the  project  sponsor  shall  require  the  construction 
contractor(s)  to  obtain  reclaimed  water  from  the  Clean  Water  Program  for  this  purpose. 

The  project  sponsor  shall  require  the  project  contractor(s)  to  maintain  and  operate 
construction  equipment  so  as  to  minimize  exhaust  emissions  of  particulates  and  other 
pollutants,  by  such  means  as  prohibiting  idling  motors  when  equipment  is  not  in  use  or  when 
trucks  are  waiting  in  queues,  and  implementing  specific  maintenance  programs  to  reduce 
emissions  for  equipment  that  would  be  in  frequent  use  for  much  of  the  construction  period. 

In  addition  to  the  standard  mitigation  procedures  above,  the  following  additional  measures 
shall  be  implemented  due  to  proximity  of  a  sensitive  receptor  (the  Montessori  School  on 
Loomis  and  Industrial  Streets): 

•  Contractors  will  suspend  dust-producing  activities  when  wind  (instantaneous  gusts) 
exceeds  25  mph. 

•  The  project  sponsor  will  require  the  construction  contractor  to  designate  a  dust-control 
coordinator  who  will  respond  to  dust  complaints.  This  person's  name  and  phone  number 
will  be  posted  prominently  on  the  project  site  and  provided  to  the  Big  City  Montessori 
School.  This  person  shall  respond  to  complaints  within  24-hours  or  less  and  shall  have 
the  authority  to  take  corrective  action. 

•  Watering  will  be  used  to  control  dust  generation  during  demolition  of  structures  and 
break-up  of  pavement. 

•  Dust-proof  chutes  to  load  debris  into  trucks  will  be  used  whenever  feasible. 
Hazards 

The  project  sponsor  shall  follow  the  mitigation  measures  delineated  and  described  in  the 
William  Dubovsky  Environmental  Site  Mitigation  Plan,  SGI's  Amended  Site  Mitigation 
Plan,  and  comply  with  the  requirements  set  forth  in  DPH's  letters  dated  June  11,  2001  and 
August  9,  2001,  and  any  further  guidelines  and  revisions  set  by  the  DPH,  including  the 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


12 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


implementation  of  the  Health  and  Safety  Plan  (HSP).  The  project  sponsor  must  take  the 
following  actions  prior  to  approval  and  issuance  by  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
of  the  building  permit  application  for  construction  of  the  new  buildings  on  the  project  site. 

Preparation  of  Revised  Site  Mitigation  Plan 

Based  on  the  results  of  the  Phase  II  Environmental  Site  Assessment  (ESA)  soil  tests, 
Environmental  Health  Management  Section-Hazardous  Waste  Unit  (EHS-HWU)  determined 
the  soils  on  the  project  site  are  contaminated  with  lead,  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  total 
chromium,  or  other  materials  associated  with  previous  businesses  on  the  site.  The  project 
sponsor  shall  submit  a  detailed  Project  Construction/Excavation  Plan  and  a  revised  Site 
Mitigation  Plan  (SMP)  to  EHS-HWU  at  1390  Market  Street,  Suite  822,  San  Francisco, 
California  94102  for  review  and  approval. 

The  revised  SMP  shall  include  a  discussion  of  the  level  of  contamination  of  soils  on  the 
project  site  by  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  lead,  total  chromium  or  other  hazardous  materials 
and  implementation  measures  for  managing  contaminated  soils  on  the  site,  including,  but  not 
limited  to:  1)  the  removal  of  the  contaminated  soils;  and  2)  the  specific  practices  to  be  used 
to  handle,  haul,  and  dispose  of  contaminated  soils  on  the  site,  including,  but  not  limited  to, 
the  measures  listed  below. 

Preparation  of  a  Revised  Health  and  Safety  Plan 

The  project  sponsor  shall  submit  a  revised  Health  and  Safety  Plan  (HSP),  prepared  in 
accordance  with  State  of  California  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration 
Guidelines,  to  the  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health,  Environmental  Health 
Management  Section-  Hazardous  Waste  Unit  (EHS-HWU)  at  1390  Market  Street,  Suite  822, 
San  Francisco,  California  94102  for  review,  approval,  and  implementation.  The  HSP  shall  be 
prepared  by  a  Health  and  Safety  Officer  certified  by  the  State  of  California.  The  HSP  shall 
contain  an  analysis  of  potential  hazards  on  the  project  site,  including  exposure  petroleum 
hydrocarbons,  or  other  hazardous  materials  associated  with  gas  and  oil  facility,  that  may  be 
encountered  by  workers  on  the  project  site;  and  precautions  to  mitigate  the  potential  hazards. 
As  noted  in  the  Amended  SMP  submitted  by  the  project  sponsor  to  EHS-HWU,  an  HSP  shall 
be  submitted  at  least  two  weeks  prior  to  commencement  of  any  redevelopment  site  work. 

Handling,  Hauling,  and  Disposal  of  Contaminated  Soils 

(a)  specific  work  practices:  If  the  project  sponsor  assumes  that  the  soils  on  the  project  site 
are  contaminated  with  lead,  total  chromium,  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  or  other  hazardous 
materials  associated  with  gas  and  oil  facility  at  or  above  potentially  hazardous  levels;  or  if, 
based  on  the  results  of  the  soil  tests  conducted,  DPH  determines  that  the  soils  on  the  project 
site  are  contaminated  with  lead,  total  chromium,  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  or  other  hazardous 
materials  at  or  above  potentially  hazardous  levels,  the  construction  contractor  shall  be  alert 
for  the  presence  of  such  soils  during  excavation  and  other  construction  activities  on  the  site 
(detected  through  soil  odor,  color,  and  texture  and  results  of  on-site  soil  testing),  and  shall  be 
prepared  to  handle,  profile  (i.e.,  characterize),  and  dispose  of  such  soils  appropriately  (i.e.,  as 
dictated  by  local,  state,  and  federal  regulations,  including  Cal-OSHA  safe  work  practices)  if 
and  when  such  soils  are  encountered  on  the  site. 


200I.OO62E  491  Bayshorc/196  Loomis  Street 


13 


July  28, 2005 


I.  Summary 


(b)  dust  suppression:  The  construction  contractor  shall  keep  soils  exposed  during  excavation 
for  site  preparation  and  project  construction  moist  throughout  the  time  they  are  exposed,  both 
during  and  after  work  hours. 

(c)  surface  water  runoff  control:  Where  soils  are  stockpiled,  the  construction  contractor  shall 
use  visqueen  to  create  an  impermeable  liner,  both  beneath  and  on  top  of  the  soils,  with  a 
berm  to  contain  any  potential  surface  water  runoff  from  the  soil  stockpiles  during  inclement 
weather. 

(d)  soils  replacement:  If  necessary,  the  construction  contractor  shall  use  clean  fill  or  other 
suitable  material(s)  to  bring  portions  of  the  project  site,  where  contaminated  soils  have  been 
excavated  and  removed,  up  to  construction  grade. 

(e)  hauling  and  disposal:  The  construction  contractor  shall  haul  contaminated  soils  off  the 
project  site  by  waste  hauling  trucks  appropriately  certified  with  the  State  of  California  and 
adequately  covered  to  prevent  dispersion  of  the  soils  during  transit,  and  shall  dispose  of 
contaminated  soils  at  a  permitted  hazardous  waste  disposal  facility  registered  with  the  State 
of  California  or  other  appropriate  agency. 

Preparation  of  Closure/Certification  Report 

After  excavation  and  foundation  construction  activities  are  completed,  the  project  sponsor 
shall  prepare  and  submit  a  closure/certification  report  to  the  San  Francisco  Department  of 
Public  Health,  Environmental  Health  Management  Section-Hazardous  Waste  Unit  (EHS- 
HWU)  for  review  and  approval  at  1390  Market  Street,  Suite  822,  San  Francisco,  California 
94102.  The  closure/certification  report  shall  include  the  mitigation  measures  in  the  SMP  for 
handling  and  removing  contaminated  soils  from  the  project  site,  whether  the  construction 
contractor  modified  any  of  these  mitigation  measures,  and  how  and  why  the  construction 
contractor  modified  those  mitigation  measures. 

Deed  Recordation  on  Remaining  Contaminated  Soils 

If  potentially  hazardous  levels  of  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  lead,  total  chromium  or  other 
hazardous  materials  associated  with  gas  and  oil  facility  remain  in  soils  on  the  project  site 
after  project  construction  and  if  both  of  the  following  circumstances  are  met,  the  project 
sponsor  shall  file  a  recordation  on  the  deed  for  the  subject  property  that  indicates  the  need  to 
take  special  precautions  during  future  disturbance  of  the  soils  on  the  property  due  to  certain 
on-site  soil  conditions: 

(a)  The  project  sponsor  assumes  that  the  soils  on  the  project  site  are  contaminated  with  lead, 
total  chromium  or  petroleum  hydrocarbons  at  or  above  potentially  hazardous  levels;  OR 
based  on  the  results  of  the  soil  tests  conducted,  DPH  determines  that  the  soils  on  the  project 
site  are  contaminated  with  lead,  total  chromium  or  petroleum  hydrocarbons  at  or  above 
potentially  hazardous  levels;  and 

(b)  Potentially  hazardous  levels  of  lead,  total  chromium  or  petroleum  hydrocarbons  remain 
in  soils  on  the  project  site. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


14 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


Cultural  Resources 

Based  on  a  reasonable  presumption  that  archeological  resources  may  be  present  within  the 
project  site,  the  following  measures  shall  be  undertaken  to  avoid  any  potentially  significant 
adverse  effect  from  the  proposed  project  on  buried  or  submerged  historical  resources.  The 
project  sponsor  shall  retain  the  services  of  a  qualified  archeological  consultant  having 
expertise  in  California  prehistoric  and  urban  historical  archeology.  The  archeological 
consultant  shall  undertake  an  archeological  testing  program  as  specified  herein.  In  addition, 
the  consultant  shall  be  available  to  conduct  an  archeological  monitoring  and/or  data  recovery 
program  if  required  pursuant  to  this  measure.  The  archeological  consultant's  work  shall  be 
conducted  in  accordance  with  this  measure  at  the  direction  of  the  Environmental  Review 
Officer  (ERO).  All  plans  and  reports  prepared  by  the  consultant  as  specified  herein  shall  be 
submitted  first  and  directly  to  the  ERO  for  review  and  comment,  and  shall  be  considered 
draft  reports  subject  to  revision  until  final  approval  by  the  ERO.  Archeological  monitoring 
and/or  data  recovery  programs  required  by  this  measure  could  suspend  construction  of  the 
project  for  up  to  a  maximum  of  four  weeks.  At  the  direction  of  the  ERO,  the  suspension  of 
construction  can  be  extended  beyond  four  weeks  only  if  such  a  suspension  is  the  only 
feasible  means  to  reduce  to  a  less-than-significant  level  potential  effects  on  a  significant 
archeological  resource  as  defined  in  CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15064.5  (a)(c). 

Archeological  Testing  Program.  The  archeological  consultant  shall  prepare  and  submit  to 
the  ERO  for  review  and  approval  an  archeological  testing  plan  (ATP).  The  archeological 
testing  program  shall  be  conducted  in  accordance  with  the  approved  ATP.  The  ATP  shall 
identify  the  property  types  of  the  expected  archeological  resource(s)  that  potentially  could  be 
adversely  affected  by  the  proposed  project,  the  testing  method  to  be  used,  and  the  locations 
recommended  for  testing.  The  purpose  of  the  archeological  testing  program  will  be  to 
determine  to  the  extent  possible  the  presence  or  absence  of  archeological  resources  and  to 
identify  and  to  evaluate  whether  any  archeological  resource  encountered  on  the  site 
constitutes  an  historical  resource  under  CEQA. 

At  the  completion  of  the  archeological  testing  program,  the  archeological  consultant  shall 
submit  a  written  report  of  the  findings  to  the  ERO.  If  based  on  the  archeological  testing 
program  the  archeological  consultant  finds  that  significant  archeological  resources  may  be 
present,  the  ERO  in  consultation  with  the  archeological  consultant  shall  determine  if 
additional  measures  are  warranted.  Additional  measures  that  may  be  undertaken  include 
additional  archeological  testing,  archeological  monitoring,  and/or  an  archeological  data 
recovery  program.  If  the  ERO  determines  that  a  significant  archeological  resource  is  present 
and  that  the  resource  could  be  adversely  affected  by  the  proposed  project,  at  the  discretion  of 
the  project  sponsor  either: 

A)  The  proposed  project  shall  be  re-designed  so  as  to  avoid  any  adverse  effect  on  the 
significant  archeological  resource;  or 

B)  A  data  recovery  program  shall  be  implemented,  unless  the  ERO  determines  that  the 
archeological  resource  is  of  greater  interpretive  than  research  significance  and  that 
interpretive  use  of  the  resource  is  feasible. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


15 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


Archeological  Monitoring  Program.  If  the  ERO  in  consultation  with  the  archeological 
consultant  determines  that  an  archeological  monitoring  program  shall  be  implemented  the 
archeological  monitoring  program  shall  minimally  include  the  following  provisions: 

•  The  archeological  consultant,  project  sponsor,  and  ERO  shall  meet  and  consult  on  the 
scope  of  the  AMP  reasonably  prior  to  any  project-related  soils  disturbing  activities 
commencing.  The  ERO  in  consultation  with  the  archeological  consultant  shall  determine 
what  project  activities  shall  be  archeologically  monitored.  In  most  cases,  any  soils- 
disturbing  activities,  such  as  demolition,  foundation  removal,  excavation,  grading, 
utilities  installation,  foundation  work,  driving  of  piles  (foundation,  shoring,  etc.),  site 
remediation,  etc.,  shall  require  archeological  monitoring  because  of  the  risk  these 
activities  pose  to  potential  archeological  resources  and  to  their  depositional  context; 

•  The  archeological  consultant  shall  advise  all  project  contractors  to  be  on  the  alert  for 
evidence  of  the  presence  of  the  expected  resource(s),  of  how  to  identify  the  evidence  of 
the  expected  resource(s),  and  of  the  appropriate  protocol  in  the  event  of  apparent 
discovery  of  an  archeological  resource; 

•  The  archeological  monitor(s)  shall  be  present  on  the  project  site  according  to  a  schedule 
agreed  upon  by  the  archeological  consultant  and  the  ERO  until  the  ERO  has,  in 
consultation  with  project  archeological  consultant,  determined  that  project  construction 
activities  could  have  no  effects  on  significant  archeological  deposits; 

•  The  archeological  monitor  shall  record  and  be  authorized  to  collect  soil  samples  and 
artifactual/ecofactual  material  as  warranted  for  analysis; 

•  If  an  intact  archeological  deposit  were  encountered,  all  soils-disturbing  activities  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  deposit  shall  cease.  The  archeological  monitor  shall  be  empowered  to 
temporarily  redirect  demolition/excavation/pile  driving/construction  activities  and 
equipment  until  the  deposit  is  evaluated.  If  in  the  case  of  pile  driving  activity 
(foundation,  shoring,  etc.),  the  archeological  monitor  has  cause  to  believe  that  the  pile 
driving  activity  may  affect  an  archeological  resource,  the  pile  driving  activity  shall  be 
terminated  until  an  appropriate  evaluation  of  the  resource  has  been  made  in  consultation 
with  the  ERO.  The  archeological  consultant  shall  immediately  notify  the  ERO  of  the 
encountered  archeological  deposit.  The  archeological  consultant  shall  make  a  reasonable 
effort  to  assess  the  identity,  integrity,  and  significance  of  the  encountered  archeological 
deposit,  and  present  the  findings  of  this  assessment  to  the  ERO.  Whether  or  not 
significant  archeological  resources  are  encountered,  the  archeological  consultant  shall 
submit  a  written  report  of  the  findings  of  the  monitoring  program  to  the  ERO. 

Archeological  Data  Recovery  Program.  The  archeological  data  recovery  program  shall  be 
conducted  in  accord  with  an  archeological  data  recovery  plan  (ADRJP).  The  archeological 
consultant,  project  sponsor,  and  ERO  shall  meet  and  consult  on  the  scope  of  the  ADRP  prior 
to  preparation  of  a  draft  ADRP.  The  archeological  consultant  shall  submit  a  draft  ADRP  to 
the  ERO.  The  ADRP  shall  identify  how  the  proposed  data  recovery  program  will  preserve 
the  significant  information  the  archeological  resource  is  expected  to  contain.   That  is,  the 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


15a 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


ADRP  will  identify  what  scientific/historical  research  questions  are  applicable  to  the 
expected  resource,  what  data  classes  the  resource  is  expected  to  possess,  and  how  the 
expected  data  classes  would  address  the  applicable  research  questions.  Data  recovery,  in 
general,  should  be  limited  to  the  portions  of  the  historical  property  that  could  be  adversely 
affected  by  the  proposed  project.  Destructive  data  recovery  methods  shall  not  be  applied  to 
portions  of  the  archeological  resources  if  nondestructive  methods  are  practical. 

The  scope  of  the  ADRP  shall  include  the  following  elements: 

•  Field  Methods  and  Procedures.  Descriptions  of  proposed  field  strategies,  procedures, 
and  operations. 

•  Cataloguing  and  Laboratory  Analysis.  Description  of  selected  cataloguing  system  and 
artifact  analysis  procedures. 

•  Discard  and  Deaccession  Policy.  Description  of  and  rationale  for  field  and  post-field 
discard  and  deaccession  policies. 

•  Interpretive  Program.  Consideration  of  an  on-site/off-site  public  interpretive  program 
during  the  course  of  the  archeological  data  recovery  program. 

•  Security  Measures.  Recommended  security  measures  to  protect  the  archeological 
resource  from  vandalism,  looting,  and  nonintentionally  damaging  activities. 

•  Final  Report.  Description  of  proposed  report  format  and  distribution  of  results. 

•  Curation.  Description  of  the  procedures  and  recommendations  for  the  curation  of  any 
recovered  data  having  potential  research  value,  identification  of  appropriate  curation 
facilities,  and  a  summary  of  the  accession  policies  of  the  curation  facilities. 

Human  Remains  and  Associated  or  Unassociated  Funerary  Objects.  The  treatment  of  human 
remains  and  of  associated  or  unassociated  funerary  objects  discovered  during  any  soils 
disturbing  activity  shall  comply  with  applicable  State  and  Federal  laws.  This  shall  include 
immediate  notification  of  the  Coroner  of  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  and  in  the 
event  of  the  Coroner's  determination  that  the  human  remains  are  Native  American  remains, 
notification  of  the  California  State  Native  American  Heritage  Commission  (NAHC),  which 
shall  appoint  a  Most  Likely  Descendant  (MLD)  (Public  Resource  Code  Section  5097.98). 
The  archeological  consultant,  project  sponsor,  and  MLD  shall  make  all  reasonable  efforts  to 
develop  an  agreement  for  the  treatment  of,  with  appropriate  dignity,  human  remains  and 
associated  or  unassociated  funerary  objects  (CEQA  Guidelines,  Section  15064.5(d)).  The 
agreement  should  take  into  consideration  the  appropriate  excavation,  removal,  recordation, 
analysis,  custodianship,  curation,  and  final  disposition  of  the  human  remains  and  associated 
or  unassociated  funerary  objects. 

Final  Archeological  Resources  Report.  The  archeological  consultant  shall  submit  a  Draft 
Final  Archeological  Resources  Report  (FARR)  to  the  ERO  that  evaluates  the  historical 
significance  of  any  discovered  archeological  resource  and  describes  the  archeological  and 
historical  research  methods  employed  in  the  archeological  testing/monitoring/data  recovery 
program(s)  undertaken.  Information  that  may  put  at  risk  any  archeological  resource  shall  be 
provided  in  a  separate  removable  insert  within  the  final  report. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshorc/ !  96  Loomis  Street 


15b 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


Once  approved  by  the  ERO,  copies  of  the  FARR  shall  be  distributed  as  follows:  California 
Archeological  Site  Survey  Northwest  Information  Center  (NWIC)  shall  receive  one  (1)  copy 
and  the  ERO  shall  receive  a  copy  of  the  transmittal  of  the  FARR  to  the  NWIC.  The  Major 
Environmental  Analysis  division  of  the  Planning  Department  shall  receive  three  copies  of  the 
FARR  along  with  copies  of  any  formal  site  recordation  forms  (CA  DPR  523  series)  and/or 
documentation  for  nomination  to  the  National  Register  of  Historic  Places/California  Register 
of  Historical  Resources.  In  instances  of  high  public  interest  in  or  the  high  interpretive  value 
of  the  resource,  the  ERO  may  require  a  different  final  report  content,  format,  and  distribution 
than  that  presented  above. 


Improvement  Measures 

•  Improvement  measures  diminish  effects  of  the  project  that  were  found  through  the  environmental 
analysis  to  be  less-than-significant  impacts.  The  following  measure  would  be  implemented  by  the 
Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic,  and  the  cost  would  be  borne  by  the  project  sponsor. 

Transportation 

•  In  2015,  the  cumulative  conditions  at  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Silver  Avenue  intersection 
would  operate  at  LOS  D  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  although  the  northbound  left- 
turn  movement  would  operate  at  LOS  F,  the  resulting  queue  would  extend  past  the  left-turn 
pocket.  The  proposed  project  would  not  significantly  contribute  to  the  cumulative 
conditions.  To  improve  operations,  a  protected  northbound  left-turn  phase  could  be 
established  (under  the  existing  signalization  plan  for  the  intersection,  the  northbound  and 
southbound  left-turns  are  permitted,  not  protected),  and  the  cycle  length  could  be  increased 
from  75  seconds  to  90  seconds.  These  improvements  would  be  appropriate  independent  of 
the  project  under  existing  conditions  and  would  be  designed  to  mitigate  cumulative 
significant  impacts  to  which  the  project  would  not  make  a  significant  contribution.  The 
overall  intersection  operating  conditions  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  would  remain  at 
LOS  D,  but  the  northbound  left-turn  operations  would  improve  and  the  average  delay  per 
vehicle  would  decrease.  Assuming  the  protected  left-turn  phase  would  be  established  at  other 
times,  the  intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  C  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour. 

E.    SIGNIFICANT  IMPACTS  (page  1 13) 

The  proposed  project,  with  mitigation,  would  have  the  following  unavoidable  significant  impacts  in 
the  areas  of  air  quality  and  traffic: 

•  The  proposed  project  would  exceed  the  BAAQMD  threshold  of  significance  for  regional 
emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases  (ROG).  This  is  an  unmitigable  project  level  and 
cumulative  impact. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


16 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


•  The  proposed  project  would  have  a  significant  unmitigable  contribution  to  the  2015  adverse 
cumulative  conditions  on  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  northbound  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/ 
Industrial  Street;  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  southbound  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/ 
Industrial  Street;  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  northbound  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar 
Chavez  Street;  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  southbound  on-ramp  at  San  Bruno  Avenue;  and  the  I- 
280  Freeway  westbound  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard. 

F.    ALTERNATIVES  TO  THE  PROPOSED  PROJECT 

(page  115) 

Alternative  A:  No  Project 

This  alternative  would  entail  no  change  to  the  site,  which  would  remain  in  its  existing  condition.  The 
No  Project  Alternative  would  not  have  any  of  the  impacts  of  the  proposed  project,  including  the 
potentially  significant  air  quality  impacts  of  the  proposed  project  and  the  contribution  to  the  2015 
cumulative  traffic  conditions  on  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany 
Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar 
Chavez  Street,  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  San  Bruno  Avenue,  and  the  westbound 
1-280  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard. 

Alternative  B:  Variant  No  Project 

This  alternative  represents  one  possibility  of  what  could  be  expected  if  the  proposed  project  were  not 
approved.  The  two  existing  buildings  on  site  would  be  reused  for  retail/commercial  uses  as 
permitted  by  zoning.  The  former  Goodman  Lumber  Company  building  is  about  76,846  sq.ft.,  and 
the  previous  Whole  Earth  Access  supply  store  is  approximately  30,500  sq.ft.,  for  a  total  of 
approximately  107,400  sq.ft.  Both  buildings  are  about  23  feet  high.  In  this  alternative,  the 
retail/commercial  uses  would  presumably  be  one  or  two  large-scale  enterprises  similar  to  the 
previous  uses  on  the  site  and/or  proposed  uses  for  the  site.  In  addition,  the  buildings  would  be 
brought  up  to  building  code. 

Compared  to  the  proposed  project,  the  Variant  No  Project  Alternative,  because  of  the  smaller  size, 
would  have  less  intensive  environmental  effects  on  transportation  and  parking,  population,  shadows, 
construction  noise,  air  quality,  utilities  and  public  services,  and  energy/natural  resources.  This 
alternative  would  generate  about  552  vehicle  trips  in  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  789  trips  in  the 


2001 .0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


17 


July  28, 2005 


I.  Summary 


Saturday  midday  peak  hour,2  compared  to  proposed  project's  848  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trips  and 
1,268  trips  in  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  The  operating  conditions  of  the  study  intersections 
would  be  better  than  with  the  proposed  project.  The  impacts  of  both  the  proposed  project  and  this 
alternative  on  transit,  parking,  pedestrians,  bicycles,  construction  traffic,  and  contribution  to  total 
cumulative  traffic  volumes  would  be  less-than-significant.  This  alternative  would  make  a  smaller 
contribution  to  the  growth  in  cumulative  traffic  impacts  at  nearby  intersections  than  would  the 
proposed  project,  however,  it  would  still  have  a  significant  contribution  (more  than  five  percent 
increase)  to  the  2015  cumulative  conditions  on  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at 
Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany 
Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar 
Chavez  Street,  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  San  Bruno  Avenue,  and  the  westbound 
1-280  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard.  Under  this  alternative,  the  Mission/Cortland 
intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  F  under  the  2015  cumulative  conditions. 

In  those  environmental  areas  not  governed  by  height  or  bulk,  this  alternative  would  have  effects 
similar  to  the  proposed  project  on  land  use,  noise,  biology,  energy,  natural  resources,  utilities  and 
public  services,  geology/topography,  hydrology,  and  the  potential  presence  of  hazardous  materials  in 
the  existing  buildings.  It  is  assumed  that  this  alternative  would  have  minimal  effects  on 
archeological  cultural  resources  as  there  would  be  no  need  for  excavation.  In  Alternative  B,  the 
current  buildings  would  be  reused  and  there  would  be  little  change  in  the  existing  visual  character  of 
the  site.  The  hazardous  materials  in  the  soil  would  remain. 

Alternative  B  would  not  have  a  significant  impact  on  air  quality,  unlike  the  proposed  project.  The 
effect  on  regional  air  quality  emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases  (ROG)  would  be  below  the 
BAAQMD  threshold  for  significance.  Alternative  B  would  generate  a  smaller  increase  in 
employment  and  daily  population  than  the  proposed  project.  The  population  effects  of  both  this 
alternative  and  the  proposed  project  would  be  less-than-significant. 


Based  on  an  estimate  of  13.5  person  trips  per  1,000  sq.ft.  of  retail  for  Weekday  PM  peak  hour, 
and  19.3  person  trips  per  1,000  sq.ft.  of  retail  space  for  Saturday  midday  per  the  San  Francisco  Planning 
Department,  Interim  Transportation  Impacts  Analysis  Guidelines  for  Environmental  Review,  January  2000. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


18 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


Alternative  B  would  not  meet  most  of  the  project  sponsor's  objectives  of  developing  a  standard  size 
Home  Depot  home  improvement  store  for  San  Francisco. 

Alternative  C:  A  60,000-Square-Foot  Project 

This  alternative  is  included  in  response  to  comments  made  on  the  Initial  Study  that  requested  an 
analysis  of  a  home  improvement  store  smaller  than  the  previous  76,846  sq.-ft.  Goodman  Lumber 
store.  The  existing  buildings  on  the  site  would  be  demolished,  and  a  one-story  approximately  60,000 
sq.-ft.  home  improvement  store  would  be  constructed  with  a  surface  parking  lot  containing 
approximately  350  parking  spaces. 

Compared  to  the  proposed  project,  a  60,000  sq.-ft.  alternative,  because  of  its  smaller  size,  would 
have  less  intensive  environmental  effects  on  visual  quality  and  urban  design,  transportation  and 
parking,  construction  noise,  air  quality,  utilities  and  public  services,  and  energy/natural  resources.  In 
those  environmental  areas  not  governed  by  height  or  bulk,  this  alternative  would  have  similar  effects 
on  land  use,  operational  noise,  biology,  geology/topography,  water,  hazards,  and  cultural  resources. 
This  alternative  would  generate  peak-hour  vehicle  trips  that  would  be  about  forty  percent  of  those 
generated  by  the  proposed  project. 

The  impacts  of  this  alternative  on  intersection  levels  of  service,  transit,  parking,  pedestrians,  bicycles, 
construction  traffic,  and  contribution  to  total  cumulative  traffic  volumes  would  be  less-than- 
significant,  except  for  the  contribution  to  the  2015  cumulative  conditions  on  the  northbound  U.S.  101 
Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street,  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on- 
ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street,  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  San 
Bruno  Avenue,  and  the  westbound  1-280  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard,  all  of  which 
would  be  significant,  unavoidable  cumulative  impacts.  The  trip  contribution  of  the  60,000  sq.-ft. 
alternative  to  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar  Chavez  Street 
would  be  less-than-significant.  This  alternative  would  make  a  smaller  contribution  to  the  growth  in 
cumulative  traffic  impacts  at  nearby  intersections  than  would  the  proposed  project.  Under  this 
alternative,  the  Mission/Cortland  intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  F  under  the  2015  cumulative 
conditions. 

This  alternative  would  be  environmentally  superior  to  the  proposed  project  and  the  other  alternatives 
discussed  below.  This  alternative  would  not  meet  the  project  sponsor's  objectives  of  developing  a 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


19 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


standard  size  Home  Depot  home  improvement  store  for  San  Francisco,  offering  a  full  range  of  home 
improvement  items  and  services. 

Alternative  D:  A  107,400-Square-Foot  Project 

This  alternative  would  be  a  Home  Depot  store  similar  to  the  proposed  project  in  terms  of  building 
exterior  and  parking  garage,  however,  there  would  be  no  mezzanine  and  the  total  square  footage 
would  be  approximately  107,400  sq.ft.,  about  45,690  sq.ft.  less  than  the  proposed  project  (a  reduction 
of  approximately  thirty  percent).  The  parking  garage  would  have  about  385  parking  spaces  on  two 
levels  (about  165  spaces  fewer  than  the  proposed  project).  The  building  exterior  in  this  alternative 
would  be  similar  to  the  proposed  project. 

Most  of  the  potential  impacts  identified  for  the  proposed  project  would  occur  with  Alternative  D,  but 
at  a  lower  level.  This  alternative  would  still  demolish  the  two  existing  vacant  buildings  and  replace 
them  with  a  new  retail  building,  garden  center,  greenhouse  and  parking  garage.  Thus,  the  change  in 
land  use  would  be  the  same,  but  the  size  and  resultant  population  density  of  this  alternative  would  be 
approximately  one-third  less  than  the  proposed  project.  The  estimated  daily  on-site  population 
would  be  about  122  to  138  employees  and  between  2,300  to  2,600  shoppers  per  day,  and  would 
increase  the  concentration  of  people  on  the  project  site. 

The  reduced  employee  population  and  fewer  shoppers  would  translate  to  fewer  vehicle  trips,  both 
daily  and  PM  peak-hour  trips,  reduced  transit  demand,  and  reduced  parking  demand.  This  alternative 
would  generate  approximately  7,266  weekday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  595  peak-hour  vehicle  trips, 
and  about  7,521  Saturday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  890  peak-hour  vehicle  trips.3  This  reduction  in 
vehicle-trips  could  result  in  a  reduction  in  vehicle  delays  at  the  local  intersections  as  compared  to  the 
project.  The  operating  conditions  would  be  better  than  the  proposed  project  and  the  levels  of 
operation  at  the  key  intersections  studied  would  be  less  than  that  of  the  proposed  project.  Neither  the 
project  nor  this  alternative  would  result  in  project-specific  significant  impacts  on  traffic  flow, 
however,  both  would  have  an  unmiti gable  significant  contribution  to  the  2015  cumulative  conditions 
(more  than  five  percent  increase)  on  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany 


Based  on  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trip  rate  of  5.54  vehicle  trips  per  1,000  sq.ft.,  and  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour  trip  rate  of  8.28  vehicle-trips  per  1,000  sq.ft.  Trip  rate  data  is  from  surveys  conducted  at 
four  Home  Depot  stores  in  California. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


20 


July  28,  2005 


[.  Summary 


Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/ 
Industrial  Street;  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar  Chavez 
Street,  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  San  Bruno  Avenue,  and  the  westbound  1-280 
Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard.  Under  this  alternative,  the  Mission/Cortland  intersection 
would  operate  at  LOS  F  under  the  2015  cumulative  conditions. 

Alternative  D  would  not  have  a  significant  impact  on  air  quality  emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases 
(ROG),  unlike  the  proposed  project.  The  public  service  and  utilities  demand  and  energy/natural 
resources  consumption  under  this  alternative  would  be  roughly  thirty  percent  that  of  the  proposed 
project.  Operational  noise  would  be  about  the  same  as  the  proposed  project.  The  project  effects 
related  to  geology,  hydrology,  hazardous  materials,  and  potential  subsurface  cultural  resources, 
however,  would  be  comparable  to  those  of  the  proposed  project.  The  parking  garage  would  be  one- 
story  shorter  and  the  visual  effects  would  be  slightly  less  than  the  proposed  project.  Construction 
impacts  of  this  alternative  on  traffic  and  air  quality  would  be  similar  to  those  of  the  proposed  project, 
though  somewhat  reduced  in  duration. 

This  alternative  would  meet  the  project  sponsor's  basic  objectives  of  constructing  a  standard-sized 
Home  Depot  home  improvement  store  within  San  Francisco,  although  the  level  of  services  and 
products  would  not  be  at  the  level  the  project  sponsor  would  prefer. 

Alternative  E:  A  140,000-Square-Foot  Project 

This  alternative  would  also  be  a  Home  Depot  store  similar  to  the  proposed  project  in  terms  of 
building  exterior  and  parking  garage.  The  total  square  footage  would  be  approximately  140,000 
sq.ft.,  about  13,000  sq.ft.  less  than  the  proposed  project  (a  reduction  of  approximately  eight  and  a 
half  percent).  The  parking  garage  would  have  about  500  parking  spaces  on  two  levels  plus  rooftop 
(about  50  spaces  fewer  than  the  proposed  project).  The  exterior  building  in  Alternative  E  would  be 
similar  to  the  proposed  project. 

Alternative  E  is  the  maximum  size  project  that  would  avoid  potentially  significant  air  quality  impacts 
of  emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases  (ROG).  Most  of  the  other  potential  impacts  identified  for  the 
proposed  project  would  occur  with  Alternative  D,  but  at  a  slightly  lower  level.  The  change  in  land 
use  would  be  the  same,  but  the  size  and  resultant  population  density  of  this  alternative  would  be 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


21 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


approximately  eight  and  a  half  percent  less  than  the  proposed  project.  The  estimated  on-site 
population  would  be  about  149  to  180  employees  and  between  2,400  to  2,700  shoppers  per  day,  and 
would  increase  the  concentration  of  people  on  the  project  site. 

Alternative  E  would  generate  approximately  776  weekday  peak-hour  vehicle  trips  and  about  1,159 
Saturday  peak-hour  vehicle  trips,  compared  to  the  proposed  project's  848  weekday  PM  peak  hour 
vehicle  trips  and  1,268  vehicle  trips  in  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  This  small  reduction  in 
vehicle-trips  could  result  in  a  equivalent  reduction  in  vehicle  delays  at  the  local  intersections  as 
compared  to  the  project.  The  operating  conditions  would  be  about  the  same  as  the  project,  and  the 
levels  of  congestion  at  the  key  intersections  studied  would  be  similar  to  the  proposed  project.  The 
exception  in  LOS  would  be  at  the  Bayshore/Jerrold/US  101  intersection,  which  would  remain  at  LOS 
C  (rather  than  LOS  D  with  the  proposed  project)  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour.  The 
intersection  of  Mission  Street/Cortland  Avenue  would  still  require  a  signal  upgrade  to  accommodate 
the  growth  in  traffic  volumes  along  Mission  Street. 

Neither  the  project  nor  this  alternative  would  result  in  project-specific  significant  impacts  on  traffic 
flow,  however,  both  would  have  a  significant  unmitigable  contribution  to  the  2015  cumulative 
conditions  (more  than  five  percent  increase)  on  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at 
Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany 
Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar 
Chavez  Street,  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  San  Bruno  Avenue,  and  the  westbound 
1-280  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard. 

It  is  assumed  that  the  same  traffic  improvement  measures  as  the  proposed  project  would  be  included 
with  this  alternative:  traffic  signals  and  pedestrian  crosswalks  would  be  installed  at  Bayshore 
Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue,  a  left-turn  pocket  would  be  created  for  southbound  Bayshore 
Boulevard  traffic  to  enter  the  project  site,  the  northbound  Bayshore  left-turn  pocket  would  be 
lengthened,  and  just  north  of  the  project  site,  the  median  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  be  modified 
to  allow  northbound  traffic  to  make  U-turns. 

Alternative  E  would  cause  increased  emissions  of  nitrogen  oxides,  particulates  and  carbon  monoxide 
in  the  region,  though  these  increases  would  be  approximately  eight  and  a  half  percent  less  than  that 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


22 


July  28,  2005 


I.  Summary 


generated  by  the  proposed  project.  The  increases  would  be  less  than  significant  relative  to  total 
regional  emissions  of  these  pollutants,  and  would  be  below  the  BAAQMD's  thresholds  of 
significance. 

The  public  services  demand  and  energy  consumption  under  this  alternative  would  be  roughly  91.5 
percent  than  that  of  the  proposed  project.  Operational  noise  would  be  about  the  same  as  the  proposed 
project.  Alternative  E's  effects  related  to  visual  quality,  geology,  hydrology,  hazardous  materials, 
and  potential  subsurface  cultural  resources,  however,  would  be  comparable  to  those  of  the  proposed 
project.  Construction  impacts  of  this  alternative  would  also  be  similar  to  those  of  the  proposed 
project. 

This  alternative  would  meet  the  project  sponsor's  basic  objectives  of  constructing  a  standard-sized 
Home  Depot  home  improvement  store  within  San  Francisco,  although  it  would  not  be  at  the  level  the 
project  sponsor  would  prefer  to  offer  Home  Depot's  complete  range  of  home  improvement  services 
and  products,  including  a  garden  center  of  approximately  8,500  sq.ft.,  an  enclosed  greenhouse  of 
approximately  10,000  sq.ft.,  and  a  full  service  lumber  department. 

G.    AREAS  OF  CONTROVERSY  AND  ISSUES  TO  BE 
RESOLVED 

This  environmental  impact  report  focuses  on  the  issues  of  air  quality,  transportation,  hazards,  and 
archeological  cultural  resources.  All  other  potential  environmental  effects  were  found  to  be  at  a  less- 
than-significant  level  or  to  be  mitigated  to  a  level  of  less-than-significance  with  mitigation  measures 
agreed  to  by  the  project  sponsor.  Please  see  the  Initial  Study,  included  in  this  document  as 
Appendix  A,  for  analysis  of  issues  other  than  land  use,  air  quality,  transportation,  hazards, 
archeological  cultural  resources  and  growth  inducement. 

Comments  were  received  on  the  Initial  Study  relating  to  the  size  of  the  proposed  project,  possible 
alternatives,  and  the  probable  impacts  on  visual  quality,  land  use,  growth  inducement,  traffic  and 
transportation,  air  quality,  groundwater,  toxic  hazards  and  the  economic  effects  on  local  businesses. 
These  areas  may  be  considered  by  some  members  of  the  public  to  be  controversial  and  need  to  be 
resolved. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshorc/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


23 


July  28,  2005 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street  24  July  28, 2005 


II.  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


The  project  sponsor,  Home  Depot,  proposes  to  construct  an  approximately  153,089  sq.-ft.  home 
improvement  store  and  a  separate  539-space  parking  garage  on  a  5.73-acre  site  at  491  Bayshore 
Boulevard  and  196  Loomis  Street. 


A.    PROJECT  SPONSOR'S  OBJECTIVES 

The  project  sponsor  has  the  following  objectives  for  the  proposed  project: 

•  To  construct  a  standard-sized  Home  Depot  home  improvement  store  within  the  City  and 
County  of  San  Francisco,  offering  Home  Depot's  complete  range  of  home  improvement 
services  and  products,  including  a  garden  center  of  approximately  8,500  sq.ft.,  an  enclosed 
greenhouse  of  approximately  10,000  sq.ft.,  and  a  full  service  lumber  department. 

•  To  locate  a  Home  Depot  home  improvement  store  with  convenient  freeway  and  roadway 
access,  and  on  a  parcel  large  enough  to  provide  sufficient  parking  and  loading  spaces  to  meet 
projected  customer  demand  and  operational  needs. 

•  To  reuse  an  existing  site  with  commercial  uses  similar  to  those  previously  operated  on  the 
site. 

•  To  provide  a  wider  range  of  home  improvement  goods  and  services  and  at  competitive  prices 
not  otherwise  available  within  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco. 

•  To  satisfy  a  home  improvement  market  need  for  both  do-it-yourself  customers  and  local 
contractors  in  San  Francisco  and  the  surrounding  area. 

•  To  site  a  new  full-service  Home  Depot  in  a  location  that  will  relieve  over-crowding  at  the 
Home  Depot  home  improvement  center  located  in  Colma,  California,  and  make  it  easier  for 
existing  Colma  customers  from  San  Francisco  to  shop  closer  to  home. 

•  To  comply  with  the  objectives  of  the  General  Plan,  the  City  Planning  Code  and  all 
applicable  codes  and  ordinances  of  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  including  the  First 
Source  Hiring  Program. 

•  To  develop  a  project  consistent  with  the  Industrial  Protection  Zone  standards  that  apply  to  the 
site,  and  consistent  with  the  Redevelopment  Concept  Plan  (in  process)  for  the  Bayview 
Hunters  Point  Redevelopment  Survey  Area. 


B.    PROJECT  LOCATION 

The  project  site  is  located  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard/196  Loomis  Street,  and  is  part  of  the  major 
City  block  bounded  by  a  one-story  industrial  building  to  the  north,  Waterloo  Street  to  the  south, 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


25 


July  28,2005 


II.  Projkct  Description 


Looinis  Street  to  the  east,  and  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  west  in  an  industrial  area  of  San  Francisco 
(Figure  1,  Project  Location,  page  27).  The  249,699  sq.-ft.  site  (approximately  5.73  acres)  currently 
contains  two  buildings,  both  of  which  are  vacant.  The  Goodman  Lumber  Company  previously 
operated  a  76,846  sq.-ft.  home  improvement  and  building  supply  store  on  a  portion  of  the  site. 
Whole  Earth  Access,  a  retail  home  furnishing  and  supply  store,  operated  out  of  the  second  building, 
which  is  approximately  30,500  sq.ft.  (for  a  total  of  107,346  sq.ft.).  Whole  Earth  occupied  its  portion 
of  the  property  until  June  of  1999  and  Goodman  Lumber  Company  ceased  its  operation  in  August  of 
2000.  The  buildings  have  been  vacant  since  those  dates. 

The  project  site  is  on  Assessor's  Block  5598,  Lots  8,  9,  11,  13,  15,  16,  18,  21,  and  28.  The  site  is 
rectangular  shaped  with  a  slight  curve,  approximately  797  feet  7  inches  along  the  Bayshore 
Boulevard  frontage,  approximately  770  feet  7  inches  on  the  Loomis  Street  frontage,  and  about  317 
feet  8  inches  along  the  Waterloo  Street  and  north  property  lines.  The  site  is  relatively  flat  with  a 
slight  elevation  change  of  about  six  feet  sloping  down  to  the  east. 

The  project  site  is  located  in  an  M-l  (Light  Industrial)  zoning  district  in  the  Bay  view  Hunters  Point 
neighborhood,  and  within  a  65-J  height  and  bulk  district.  The  M-l  district  accommodates 
wholesaling  and  business  services,  and  some  light  manufacturing  and  processing.  In  recognition  of 
the  potentially  adverse  effects  of  industrial  uses  and  the  proximity  of  industrial  districts  to  residential 
and  other  commercial  areas,  standards  are  imposed  as  to  enclosure  within  buildings  and  screening  of 
outdoor  uses. 

C.    PROJECT  CHARACTERISTICS 

The  proposed  project  is  to  demolish  the  two  existing  buildings  and  construct  a  two-story, 
approximately  153,089  sq.-ft.  home  improvement  store,  including  an  approximately  8,546  sq.-ft. 
outdoor  garden  center,  and  a  9,888  sq.-ft.,  enclosed  greenhouse.  The  main  store  would  be  two 
stories,  with  approximately  96,250  sq.ft.  on  the  main  floor  and  38,405  sq.ft.  on  the  second  floor 
(Figures  2,  3,  4,  5,  and  6,  pages  28  to  32).  An  approximately  235,597  sq.-ft.  parking  garage  would 
be  constructed  as  a  separate  structure  that  would  contain  the  38,405  sq.-ft.  second  floor  sales  area 
(which  is  included  in  the  153,089  sq.-ft.  total  for  the  home  improvement  center  and  is  not  included  in 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


26 


July  28,  2005 


II.  Project  Description 


the  parking  square  footage),  accessible  by  elevator  and  escalator  to  the  ground  floor  sales  area.  The 
total  square  footage  of  the  project  would  be  approximately  388,686  sq.ft.,  including  all  parking  areas. 

The  main  store  would  be  constructed  of  tilt-up  concrete  walls  with  a  concrete  slab  floor.  A  separate 
539-space,  two-story  parking  garage  plus  rooftop  parking  would  also  be  constructed  with  cast-in- 
place  concrete.    The  buildings  would  be  approximately  40  feet  in  height.    There  would  be  an 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


26a 


July  28,  2005 


II.  Project  Description 


2001 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


27 


July  28,  2005 


II.  Project  Description 


II.  Project  Description 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


29 


July  28, 2005 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


30 


July  28,  2005 


II.  Project  Description 


2001 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


31 


July  28, 


2005 


o 
o 


II.  Project  Description 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196Loomis  Street 


32 


July  28,  2005 


II.  Project  Description 

approximately  4'/2-foot  tall  wall  with  a  6-foot  trellis  along  the  periphery  of  the  roof  to  shield  the 
views  of  parked  cars.  Four  loading  docks  would  be  provided  at  the  northeast  corner  of  the  site  with 
access  from  Loomis  Street. 

Vehicular  access  to  the  parking  facility  would  be  from  Bayshore  Boulevard,  where  Cortland  Avenue 
dead  ends  into  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  from  Loomis  and  Waterloo  Streets.  New  traffic  signals 
would  be  added,  countdown  pedestrian  lights  and  pedestrian  crosswalks  would  be  installed  at 
Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue,  a  left-turn  pocket  would  be  created  for  southbound 
Bayshore  Boulevard  traffic  to  enter  the  project  site,  the  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  left-turn 
lane  would  be  extended,  and  just  north  of  the  project  site,  the  median  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  would 
be  changed  to  allow  northbound  traffic  to  make  U-turns. 

Because  the  site  slopes  down  from  Bayshore  Boulevard,  fill  would  be  required  along  the  southern 
portion  of  the  site.  Development  of  the  site  would  require  excavation  of  approximately  8,500  cubic 
yards  of  soil  for  footings  and  foundation.  Construction  of  the  foundation  system  would  include  pile 
driving. 

Project  construction  would  take  about  16  months.  Construction  is  expected  to  begin  in  2005,  with 
the  store  opening  in  late  2006.  The  project  sponsor  is  Home  Depot,  and  the  project  architect  is 
Greenberg  Farrow  Architecture. 

D.    PROJECT  APPROVAL  REQUIREMENTS 

This  EIR  has  undergone  a  public  comment  period  as  noted  on  the  cover  of  this  report,  including  a 
public  hearing  before  the  Planning  Commission  on  the  Draft  EIR.  Following  the  public  comment 
period,  responses  to  written  and  oral  comments  were  prepared  and  published  in  a  Draft  Summary  of 
Comments  and  Responses,  presented  to  the  Planning  Commission  for  certification  as  to  accuracy, 
objectivity,  and  completeness.  No  approvals  or  permits  may  be  issued  before  the  Final  EIR  is 
certified  by  the  Planning  Commission. 

The  San  Francisco  Planning  Code,  which  incorporates  by  reference  the  City's  Zoning  Maps,  governs 
permitted  uses,  densities,  and  the  configuration  of  buildings  within  San  Francisco.    Permits  to 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


33 


July  28,  2005 


II.  Project  Description 


construct  new  buildings  (or  to  alter  or  demolish  existing  ones)  may  not  be  issued  unless  either  the 
proposed  project  conforms  to  the  Code,  or  an  exception  is  granted  pursuant  to  provisions  of  the 
Code.  The  proposed  project  would  not  require  any  exceptions  to  the  Planning  Code. 

The  proposed  project  would  require  approval  from  the  Department  of  Public  Works  for  curb  cuts  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Loomis  Street,  and  approval  from  the  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic 
and  the  Interdepartmental  Staff  Committee  on  Traffic  and  Transportation  (ISCOTT)  for  the 
installation  of  new  traffic  signals  and  pedestrian  crosswalks  at  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Cortland 
Avenue,  the  creation  and  extension  of  north  and  south  bound  left-turn  pockets  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  and  the  change  to  the  median  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  southbound  Bayshore  left- 
turn  pocket  and  changes  to  the  median  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  require  approval  by  the  Board 
of  Supervisors. 

Environmental  plans  and  policies  are  those,  like  the  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Plan,  which  directly 
address  physical  environmental  issues  and/or  contain  targets  or  standards  which  must  be  met  in  order 
to  preserve  or  improve  characteristics  of  the  City's  physical  environment.  The  proposed  project 
would  not  obviously  or  substantially  conflict  with  any  such  adopted  environmental  plan  or  policy. 

In  November  1986,  the  voters  of  San  Francisco  approved  Proposition  M,  the  Accountable  Planning 
Initiative,  which  added  Section  101.1  to  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Code  to  establish  eight  Priority 
Policies.  These  policies  are:  preservation  and  enhancement  of  neighborhood-serving  retail  uses; 
protection  of  neighborhood  character;  preservation  and  enhancement  of  affordable  housing; 
discouragement  of  commuter  automobiles;  protection  of  industrial  and  service  land  uses  from 
commercial  office  development  and  enhancement  of  resident  employment  and  business  ownership; 
maximization  of  earthquake  preparedness;  landmark  and  historic  building  preservation;  and 
protection  of  open  space.  Prior  to  issuing  a  permit  for  any  project  which  requires  an  Initial  Study 
under  CEQA;  prior  to  issuing  a  permit  for  any  demolition,  conversion,  or  change  of  use;  and  prior  to 
taking  any  action  which  requires  a  finding  of  consistency  with  the  General  Plan,  the  City  is  required 
to  find  that  the  proposed  project  or  legislation  is  consistent  with  the  Priority  Policies. 


2001 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


34 


July  28,  2005 


II.  Project  Description 


The  proposed  project  would  be  a  principally  permitted  use  and  would  not  require  special 
authorization  by  the  Planning  Commission;  however,  the  project  sponsor  and  the  Planning 
Department  have  agreed  to  submit  the  project  to  the  Planning  Commission  for  a  public  hearing  under 
discretionary  review.  The  case  report  and  approval  motions  for  the  proposed  project  will  contain  the 
analysis  determining  whether  the  proposed  project  is  consistent  with  the  Priority  Policies. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


34a 


July  28,  2005 


III.  ENVIRONMENTAL  SETTING  AND  IMPACTS 


An  application  for  environmental  evaluation  for  the  proposed  project  was  filed  January  23,  2001.  A 
Preliminary  Mitigated  Negative  Declaration  was  published  on  September  29,  2001,  and  appealed  to 
the  Planning  Commission.  Upon  further  analysis,  the  Planning  Department  determined  that  an 
Environmental  Impact  Report  (EIR)  was  required.  A  revised  Initial  Study  was  published  on  March  9, 
2002,  and  determined  that  the  following  effects  of  the  proposed  project  would  either  be  insignificant 
or  would  be  reduced  to  a  less-than-significant  level  by  mitigation  measures  included  in  the  proposed 
project  and  thus  required  no  further  analysis:  land  use;  population;  shadows;  wind;  noise;  utilities/ 
public  services;  biology;  geology/topography;  water;  energy/natural  resources;  lead  paint  and 
asbestos  hazards;  and  architecturally  historic  cultural  resources  (see  Appendix  A,  page  A-l,  for  the 
Initial  Study).  Therefore,  the  EIR  does  not  discuss  these  issues.  The  proposed  project's  potentially 
significant  impacts  in  the  areas  of  transportation  and  air  quality  are  assessed  in  this  chapter.  Land 
use,  hazards,  and  prehistoric  cultural  resources  are  also  discussed  in  the  EIR  for  informational 
purposes. 

A.  LAND  USE,  ZONING,  AND  GENERAL  PLAN  CONSISTENCY 

The  Initial  Study  concluded  that  the  proposed  project  would  not  have  significant  adverse  land  use 
impacts  (for  further  information,  see  Appendix  A,  page  A-ll).  Land  use  information  is  included  in 
the  EIR  for  informational  purposes  and  to  orient  the  reader. 

Setting 
Land  Use 

The  project  site  is  within  an  M-l  (Light  Industrial)  District  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  neighbor- 
hood (see  Figure  7,  page  36).  Other  zoning  districts  in  the  surrounding  area  include  P  (Public  Use), 
RH-1  (One-Family  Residential  District),  RH-l(D)  (One-Family  Residential  District,  Detached 
Dwellings),  RH-2  (Two-Family  Residential  District),  RH-3  (Three-Family  Residential  District), 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


35 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

LAND  USE,  ZONING,  AND  GENERAL  PLAN  CONSISTENCY 


RM-1  (Residential  Mixed,  Low  Density  District),  C-M  (Heavy  Commercial  District),  M-2  (Heavy 
Industrial  District),  NC-1  (Neighborhood  Commercial  Cluster  District),  NC-2  (Small-Scale, 
Neighborhood  Commercial  District),  and  NC-S  (Neighborhood  Commercial  Shopping  Center 
District).  The  proposed  project  is  in  a  65-J  Height  and  Bulk  District. 


200I.0062E  491  Bayshorc/1 96  Loomis  Street 


35a 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

LAND  USE,  ZONING,  AND  GENERAL  PLAN  CONSISTENCY 


RH-1,  RH-2,  RH-3    House  Character  districts 


RJVl- 1     ^"'xe('  House  and  Apartment 
Character  districts 


P    Public  Use  district 
Source:  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  Planning  Department 


\\     \\  //  /S 
C-M    Commercial  district 

MM,  M-2    Industrial  district 

NCD,  NC-S,  NC-1,  NC-2    Neighborhood  Commercial  districts 


6-2-S-05 


ZONING  DISTRICTS   FIGURE  7 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


36 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

LAND  USE,  ZONING,  AND  GENERAL  PLAN  CONSISTENCY 

Section  210.5  of  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Code  describes  the  M-l  District  in  the  following 
manner:  "This  district  provides  land  for  industrial  development.  In  general,  the  M-l  Districts  are 
more  suitable  for  smaller  industries  dependent  upon  truck  transportation.  In  M-l  Districts,  most 
industries  are  permitted,  but  some  with  particularly  noxious  characteristics  are  excluded.  The 
permitted  districts  have  certain  requirements  as  to  enclosure,  screening  and  minimum  distance  from 
Residential  Districts." 

The  project  site,  consisting  of  nine  lots,  is  shown  in  Figures  8  and  9  on  pages  38  and  39.  Adjacent  to 
the  project  site  at  the  north  end  of  this  block,  there  are  three  buildings  (a  masonry  supply  warehouse 
and  storage  lot,  a  commercial  retail  store  and  parking  lot,  and  a  fast  food  restaurant).  The  zoning 
north  and  south  of  the  project  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  to  the  east  is  M-l .  The  proposed  project  is 
in  the  San  Francisco  Redevelopment  Agency's  South  Bayshore  Survey  Area.  A  Concept  Plan  for  the 
area  is  in  process  and  the  project  site  is  in  a  sub-area  proposed  for  continued  retail  commercial  use. 

A  child  care  center,  the  Big  City  Montessori  School,  is  located  about  300  feet  from  the  proposed 
project  at  the  northeast  corner  of  Loomis  Street  and  Industrial  Street.  The  nearest  residential 
development  is  west  of  Bayshore  Avenue  and  west  of  U.S.  101  in  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood, 
less  than  400  feet  from  the  project  site.  The  commercial  buildings  in  the  general  area  of  the  project 
site  range  from  one  to  two  stories,  large  in  mass/bulk,  with  a  mix  of  commercial  activity,  both 
industrial  and  retail  in  character.  Some  of  the  uses  located  immediately  adjacent  to  the  project  site 
include  fast  food,  auto  body  repair,  and  warehouse.  A  building  supply  warehouse  is  located  to  the 
south,  across  Waterloo  Street.  Several  industrial-type  businesses  including  a  large  equipment  rental 
company  are  located  east  of  the  property  across  Loomis  Street.  A  Jack  in  the  Box  and  various  one- 
and  two-story  industrial  buildings,  home  supply  stores,  and  retail  warehouses  are  located  to  the  west 
side,  across  Bayshore  Boulevard.  A  garden  center  market  is  located  south  of  Cortland  and  north  of 
Industrial  Avenue.  A  closed  Office  Max  store  is  south  of  Industrial  Avenue. 

In  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site,  U.S.  101  has  north-  and  southbound  off-ramps  at  Silver  Avenue, 
and  1-280  has  on-  and  off-ramps  west  of  Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street.  U.S.  101  and  1-280 
merge  at  Cesar  Chavez  Street  (Army  Street)  just  south  of  the  project  site  at  the  Alemany  interchange 
(refer  to  Figure  10,  page  46).  Silver  Terrace  residential  area  is  approximately  1,800  feet  to  the  south 
of  the  project  site  south  of  1-280.  Cortland  Avenue  is  the  principal  street  through  Bernal  Heights  and 
serves  to  connect  Mission  Street  and  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  subject  site  is  near  the  eastern  edge 
of  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood  but  is  considered  to  be  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
neighborhood  of  San  Francisco. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


37 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

LAND  USE,  ZONING,  AND  GENERAL  PLAN  CONSISTENCY 


Project  Site  Looking  Southeast  Across  Bayshore  Boulevard 


Project  Site  Looking  Northeast  Across  Bayshore  Boulevard 


Source:  Square  One  Productions 

PROJECT  VIEWS    FIGURE  8 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


38 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

LAND  USE,  ZONING,  AND  GENERAL  PLAN  CONSISTENCY 


Project  Site  Looking  South  on  Loomis  Street 


Project  Site  Looking  North  on  Loomis  Street 


Source:  Square  One  Produclions 

PROJECT  VIEWS    FIGURE  9 


2001. 0062 E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


39 


July  28,2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

LAND  USE,  ZONING,  AND  GENERAL  PLAN  CONSISTENCY 

The  proposed  use  would  be  similar  to  some  of  the  uses  formerly  existing  at  the  site.  Goodman 
Lumber  Company  was  a  retail  home  improvement  and  building  supply  store  that  included  an  outdoor 
garden  center.  Whole  Earth  Access  was  a  retail  store  that  sold  home  furnishings,  appliances,  books, 
computers,  kitchen  accessories  and  clothing.  The  proposed  project  would  be  a  retail  home 
improvement  and  supply  store  that  includes  an  outdoor  garden  center.  The  existing  buildings  on  the 
site  total  approximately  107,000  sq.ft.  and  the  new  Home  Depot  store  (including  the  greenhouse  and 
outdoor  garden  center)  would  be  about  153,100  sq.ft. 

While  the  proposed  project  would  contain  some  of  the  previous  uses  on  the  site,  it  would  be  a  larger 
development  and  would  increase  the  density  of  use,  number  of  customers  and  amount  of  vehicles  to 
the  site.  However,  the  proposed  project  would  not  essentially  change  the  existing  retail/light 
industrial  character  or  physical  arrangement  of  the  area.  The  use  would  be  generally  compatible  with 
the  mix  of  surrounding  commercial  and  industrial  uses  in  a  dense  urban  area. 

Plans 

The  General  Plan 

The  proposed  project  would  intensify  the  use  of  the  site  in  a  manner  generally  consistent  with  the 
General  Plan.  Some  key  objectives  and  policies  of  the  General  Plan  relevant  to  the  proposed  project 
are  noted  here;  others  may  be  addressed  during  consideration  of  project  approval. 

Commerce  and  Industry  Element 

•  Objective  1,  Policy  1,  to  "encourage  development  which  provides  substantial  net  benefits  and 
minimizes  undesirable  consequences.  Discourage  development  which  has  substantial 
undesirable  consequences  that  cannot  be  mitigated." 

•  Objective  3,  to  "provide  expanded  employment  opportunities  for  City  residents,  particularly 
the  unemployed  and  economically  disadvantaged." 

Urban  Design  Element 

•  Objective  3,  Policy  1,  to  "promote  harmony  in  the  visual  relationships  and  transitions 
between  new  and  older  buildings." 

•  Policy  2,  to  "avoid  extreme  contrasts  in  color,  shape  and  other  characteristics  which  will 
cause  new  buildings  to  standout  in  excess  or  their  public  importance." 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


40 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

LAND  USE,  ZONING,  AND  GENERAL  PLAN  CONSISTENCY 


•  Policy  5,  to  "relate  the  height  of  buildings  to  important  attributes  of  the  city  pattern  and  to  the 
height  and  character  of  existing  development." 

•  Policy  6,  to  "relate  the  bulk  of  buildings  to  the  prevailing  scale  of  development  to  avoid  an 
overwhelming  or  dominating  appearance  in  new  construction." 

Environmental  Protection  Element 

•  Objective  1,  Policy  4,  to  "assure  that  all  new  development  meets  strict  environmental  quality 
standards  and  recognizes  human  needs." 

•  Objective  14,  to  "promote  effective  energy  management  practices  to  maintain  the  economic 
vitality  of  commerce  and  industry." 

•  Objective  14,  Policy  1,  to  "increase  the  energy  efficiency  of  existing  commercial  and 
industrial  buildings  through  cost-effective  energy  management  measures." 

Transportation  Element 

•  Policy  6.1,  to  "designate  expeditious  routes  for  freight  trucks  between  industrial  and 
commercial  areas  and  the  regional  and  state  freeway  system  to  minimize  conflicts  with 
automobile  traffic  and  incompatibility  with  other  land  uses." 

•  Policy  23.6,  to  "ensure  convenient  and  safe  pedestrian  crossings  by  minimizing  the  distance 
pedestrians  must  walk  to  cross  a  street." 

•  Policy  23.7,  to  "ensure  safe  pedestrian  crossings  at  signaled  intersections  by  providing 
sufficient  time  for  pedestrians  to  cross  streets  at  a  moderate  pace." 

•  Policy  30.1,  to  "assure  that  new  or  enlarged  parking  facilities  meet  need,  locational  and 
design  criteria." 

•  Policy  40. 1,  to  "provide  off-street  facilities  for  freight  loading  and  service  vehicles  on  the  site 
of  new  buildings  sufficient  to  meet  the  demands  generated  by  the  intended  uses.  Seek 
opportunities  to  create  new  off-street  loading  facilities  for  existing  buildings." 

South  Bayshore  Area  Plan  Element 

•  Policy  3.1,  to  'improve  and  establish  truck  routes  between  industrial  areas  and  freeway 
interchanges.' 

•  Policy  4.1,  to  'develop  a  comprehensive  network  and  schedule  of  roadway  improvements  to 
assure  that  South  Bayshore  maintains  an  adequate  level  of  service  at  key  intersections  as  the 
residential  and  work  force  population  in  the  district  increases.' 

•  Policy  7.3,  to  'develop  secondary  nodes  of  commercial  activity.' 

•  Objective  8,  to  'strengthen  the  role  of  South  Bayshore  industrial  areas  in  the  overall  economy 
of  the  district,  the  city,  and  the  overall  region.1 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


41 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

LAND  USE,  ZONING,  AND  GENERAL  PLAN  CONSISTENCY 


•  Policy  8.1,  to  'maintain  industrial  zones  in  Northern  Industrial  and  India  Basin  subdistricts.' 

•  Objective  9,  to  'improve  linkage  between  growth  in  South  Bayshore  industrial  areas  and 
employment  and  business  needs  of  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  community.' 

Industrial  Area  Design  Guidelines 

New  industrial  buildings  must: 

•  respect  the  prevailing  industrial  scale,  pattern  and  architectural  character  of  predominantly 
industrial  blocks; 

•  utilize   innovative   materials   and   design   that   enrich   the   architectural   character  of 
predominantly  industrial  areas; 

•  provide  loading  and  parking  facilities  in  the  rear  which  can  be  accessed  through  an  alley  or 
secondary  street; 

•  provide  mid-block  alleys,  courtyards  and  other  design  elements  that  help  break  down  the 
scale  of  large  industrial  blocks;  and 

•  be  built  to  lot  line  at  the  street  frontage,  unless  a  pattern  of  a  building  set-back  exists,  in 
which  case  the  prevailing  set-back  pattern  should  be  reflected. 

Zoning 

The  project  site  is  located  in  an  M-l  (Light  Industrial)  zoning  district  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
neighborhood.  This  site  is  also  within  a  65-J  height  and  bulk  district  where  heights  up  to  65  feet  may 
be  permitted.  Bulk  restrictions  include  a  maximum  building  length  of  250  feet  and  a  maximum 
diagonal  length  of  300  feet.  These  restrictions  would  only  apply  if  portions  of  the  buildings 
exceeded  40  feet  in  height  from  the  base  of  the  buildings.  The  proposed  new  structures  would  be 
less  than  40  feet  in  height,  thus,  the  bulk  restriction  would  not  apply. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


41a 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

LAND  USE,  ZONING,  AND  GENERAL  PLAN  CONSISTENCY 

In  January  2002,  the  Planning  Commission  established  an  Industrial  Protection  Zone  Special  Use 
District  (IPZSUD)  to  protect  and  preserve  production,  distribution  and  repair  land  uses  and  activities 
from  competing  higher  priced  land  uses  and  activities  in  some  parts  of  the  City.  The  proposed 
project  site  is  within  the  IPZSUD,  and  the  project  would  be  a  permitted  use.  Because  the  proposed 
development  is  not  an  office,  housing  and/or  live/work  project,  the  mandatory  discretionary  review 
that  was  required  under  the  initial  IPZ  resolution  would  not  have  applied.  The  project  sponsor  and 
the  Planning  Department  have  agreed  that  the  project  should  undergo  discretionary  review  before  the 
Planning  Commission. 

The  proposed  construction  of  more  than  153,100  sq.ft.  of  retail  space,  if  approved,  would  be  subject 
to  the  application  of  the  Jobs-Housing  Linkage  Program  (Planning  Code  Sections  313.5  and  313.6), 
which  would  require  the  project  sponsor  to  construct  affordable  housing  or  to  pay  an  in-lieu  fee  to 
development  of  affordable  housing  by  others. 

B.  TRANSPORTATION 

A  transportation  study  for  the  proposed  project  was  conducted  by  Wilbur  Smith  Associates.1  The 
results  are  summarized  in  this  section. 

Setting 

Roadway  Network 

Travel  to  and  from  the  project  site  involves  the  use  of  regional  and  local  transportation  facilities, 
highways  and  transit  services  that  link  San  Francisco  with  other  parts  of  the  Bay  Area  and  northern 
California.  The  project  site  is  accessible  by  local  streets  with  connections  to  and  from  regional 
freeways  and  highways  in  the  state  system  (Figure  1 :  Project  Location,  page  27). 

United  States  Highway  101  (U.S.  101)  is  generally  a  north-south  freeway,  connecting  San 
Francisco  with  the  peninsula  and  beyond  to  the  south,  and  Marin  County  and  beyond  to  the  north. 
Between  1-80  and  1-280,  U.S.  101  is  an  eight-  to  ten-lane  limited-access  freeway.  Between  1-80  and 

1     Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  491  Bayshore  Boulevard,  Home  Depot  Transportation  Study,  Case  No. 
2001 .0062!,  September  17,  2002.  This  report  is  available  by  appointment  for  review  in  file  No.  2001.0062E  at 
the  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street,  fifth  floor. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


42 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

the  Golden  Gate  Bridge,  U.S.  101  is  a  six-lane  surface  street  along  Van  Ness  Avenue,  Lombard 
Street  and  Doyle  Drive.  In  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site,  U.S.  101  has  northbound  and  southbound 
on-  and  off-ramps  at  Silver  Avenue,  Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street  and  Cesar  Chavez  Street 
(Army  Street). 

Interstate  280  (1-280)  is  generally  a  north-south  freeway  connecting  San  Francisco  with  the 
Peninsula  and  South  Bay.  The  freeway  provides  a  direct  connection  to  U.S.  101  and  terminates  at 
surface  streets  in  the  South  of  Market/Mission  Bay  area.  At  the  interchange  with  U.S.  101,  the  1-280 
is  a  six-  to  eight-lane  freeway.  In  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site,  1-280  has  eastbound  and  westbound 
on-  and  off-ramps  at  Alemany  Boulevard. 

Bayshore  Boulevard  is  a  north-south  arterial  that  generally  parallels  U.S.  101,  extending  from 
Airport  Boulevard  in  South  San  Francisco,  through  the  City  of  Brisbane,  to  Cesar  Chavez  Street  in 
San  Francisco.  Bayshore  Boulevard  merges  into  Third  Street  about  1%  miles  south  of  the  project 
site.  In  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site,  Bayshore  Boulevard  has  three  travel  lanes  in  each  direction, 
with  on-street  parking  on  both  sides  of  the  street.  In  addition,  Bayshore  Boulevard  has  a  center  two- 
way  turn  lane,  that  allows  for  left-turns  for  both  northbound  and  southbound  traffic.  The  San 
Francisco  General  Plan  designates  Bayshore  Boulevard  as  a  Major  Arterial  in  the  Congestion 
Management  Program  (CMP)  network,  a  Metropolitan  Transportation  System  (MTS)  Street,  and  a 
Transit  Preferential  (Transit  Important)  street  to  the  south  of  U.S.  101.  In  addition,  Bayshore 
Boulevard  is  part  of  bicycle  route  #25  (which  operates  on  Paul  Avenue  and  San  Bruno  Avenue  south 
of  the  project  site,  and  Potrero  Avenue  north  of  the  project  site). 

Industrial  Street  is  an  east-west  secondary  arterial  which  links  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  Oakdale 
Avenue.  Industrial  Street  is  a  four-lane  roadway,  with  two  lanes  in  each  direction  in  the  vicinity  of 
the  project  site.  Parking  is  prohibited  on  the  south  side  of  Industrial  Street  between  Bayshore 
Boulevard  and  Loomis  Street,  but  permitted  on  both  sides  of  the  street  east  of  Loomis  Street. 

Alemany  Boulevard  is  an  east-west  major  arterial  that  generally  parallels  1-280  throughout  the 
southern  portion  of  San  Francisco.  Alemany  Boulevard  operates  between  Bayshore  Boulevard  and 
Junipero  Serra  Boulevard,  at  which  point  it  merges  with  Highway  1.  In  the  vicinity  of  the  project 
site,  Alemany  Boulevard  has  three  lanes  in  each  direction  with  no  parking  permitted  on  either  side  of 
the  street.  In  the  San  Francisco  General  Plan,  Alemany  Boulevard  is  classified  as  a  Major  Arterial 
in  the  CMP  Network  and  a  MTS  Street. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


43 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

Oakdale  Avenue  is  an  east-west  secondary  arterial  which  links  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  Third  Street. 
Oakdale  Avenue  is  a  four-lane  roadway,  with  two  lanes  in  each  direction  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project 
site.  Parking  is  permitted  on  both  sides  of  the  street.  The  north  side  between  Bayshore  Boulevard 
and  Loomis  Street  is  primarily  commercial  parking  (yellow  zone).  In  addition,  Oakdale  Avenue  is 
part  of  bicycle  routes  #7,  #25,  and  #70. 

Loomis  Street  is  a  north-south  local  street  connecting  Industrial  Street  (across  from  Boutwell  Street) 
to  Oakdale  Avenue.  Loomis  Street  is  a  wide  two-lane  roadway,  with  one  lane  in  each  direction. 
Parking  is  permitted  on  both  sides  of  Loomis  Street. 

Waterloo  Street  is  an  east-west  local  street  connecting  Loomis  Street  to  Bayshore  Boulevard. 
Waterloo  Street  is  a  narrow  two-lane  roadway,  with  one  lane  in  each  direction.  Parking  is  permitted 
on  the  north  side  of  the  street. 

Cortland  Avenue  is  an  east-west  local  street  connecting  Mission  Street  to  Bayshore  Boulevard 
through  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood.  Cortland  Avenue  is  a  two-lane  roadway,  with  one  lane  in 
each  direction.  Parking  is  generally  permitted  on  both  sides  of  the  street. 

Jerrold  Avenue  is  a  generally  east-west  local  street  connecting  Third  Street  to  Bayshore  Boulevard. 
Jerrold  Avenue  is  a  two-lane  roadway,  with  one  lane  in  each  direction.  Parking  is  permitted  on  both 
sides  of  the  street. 

Freeway  On-Ramp  Operating  Conditions 

Existing  freeway  on-ramp  level  of  service  (LOS)  operating  conditions  were  determined  for  five  key 
on-ramp  locations  in  the  vicinity  of  the  proposed  project  that  would  serve  traffic  entering  the  regional 
freeway  network.  Operating  conditions  were  based  on  freeway  and  ramp  volumes  obtained  from 
Caltrans.  The  existing  conditions  were  evaluated  for  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  (generally  5:00  to 
6:00  p.m.)  and  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (generally  12:00  to  1:00  p.m.). 


200I.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


44 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

The  operating  conditions  for  the  freeway  on-ramps  was  evaluated  using  the  1994  Highway  Capacity 
Manual  (HCM)  methodology.  The  Level  of  Service  for  the  freeway-ramp  junctions  is  based  on  the 
amount  of  vehicles  (density)  in  the  area  of  the  freeway  directly  downstream  of  the  analysis  ramp. 
Density  values  of  LOS  A  through  E  assume  stable  non-breakdown  operations,  while  LOS  F  signifies 
that  a  breakdown  condition  exists  or  is  expected  to  occur  (i.e.,  the  traffic  flow  on  the  freeway 
segment  is  not  a  steady,  constant  stream,  but  is  instead  characterized  as  start  and  stop  conditions  with 
extensive  queuing).  The  location  of  the  study  freeway  on-ramps  is  shown  in  Figure  10  on  page  46. 

As  shown  in  Table  1  on  page  47,  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  four  of  the  five  study  freeway 
on-ramps  operate  at  LOS  C.  However,  the  westbound  1-280  on-ramp  from  Alemany  Boulevard 
currently  operates  at  LOS  F  due  to  the  high  volume  of  commute  traffic  exiting  San  Francisco  during 
this  time  period.  During  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  four  of  the  five  study  freeway  on-ramps 
operate  at  LOS  B  or  C.  However,  the  northbound  U.S.  101  on-ramp  from  Bayshore/Cesar  Chavez 
currently  operates  at  LOS  F  due  to  high  traffic  volumes  on  the  freeway  and  the  general  traffic 
congestion  on  U.S.  101/1-80  through  downtown  San  Francisco. 

In  addition,  a  qualitative  assessment  was  performed  on  the  nearby  freeway  off-ramps.  In  general,  the 
operations  of  freeway  off-ramps  are  dictated  by  the  operations  of  the  adjacent  and/or  controlling 
intersections.  For  example,  at  the  primary  off-ramps  that  would  be  used  to  access  the  project  site,  the 
southbound  U.S.  101  off-ramp  to  Alemany  Boulevard  is  controlled  by  the  intersection  with 
Alemany/Putnam  and  the  northbound  U.S.  101  off-ramp  to  Alemany  Boulevard  is  controlled  by  the 
intersection  with  Alemany/Cut-Thru  Roadway.  As  such,  the  operation  of  these  off-ramps  is  included 
in  the  analysis  of  the  controlling  intersection.  For  the  off-ramps  that  are  not  located  adjacent  to  study 
intersections,  all  were  observed  to  be  operating  with  acceptable  conditions  during  the  weekday  PM 
peak  hour  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  with  relatively  short  queues  that  did  not  spill  to  the 
freeway  mainline. 


1985  Highway  Capacity  Manual,  Special  Report  209,  Transportation  Research  Board  (1994 

Update). 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


45 


July  28.  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 


1 

j-- — - 

 , — i — 1-3 

t — 

Freeway  on-ramps  —  see  Table  1 


O  Study  intersections  —  see  Table  2 


Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates 


0  24  05 


ROADWAY  NETWORK  AND  INTERSECTION  ANALYSIS  LOCATIONS    FIGURE  1 0 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


46 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 


91 


3 

o 

J* 
a 

T3 
73 


u  s- 
o  c 

°"3 


cs  S  ^ 

II 

O  I 

M 

o»  -a 
fa  o 

u 

o 

fa 

"a 

tc 
c 


fa 


o 
O 

+ 
OX) 

c 


CO 
O 
fa 


0X3 
C 


e 
Q 


co 
O 
fa 


at 
J- 

+ 
s 


c 
Q 


co 
O 
fa 


wo 
c 


fa 


c 

a> 

Q 


CO 

O 
fa 


c 

_© 

w 
u 
o 

fa 

a. 

E 
« 

OS 
■ 

c 
O 


n  oo  h 


U  fa  U  PQ  PQ 


m  oo  r- 


U  fa  U  PQ  PQ 


in  ts  <t 

(N  M  (N  (N 


U  U  U  U  fa 


(N  <N  (N  <N 


U  U  U  U  fa 


N 

U 


2  S 

|  U 
>,  g 

<  m 


i-  is 


o 
c 

2 

CQ 
c 


fflfflmffl 

£  S5  co  co 

o  o  o  o 

CO  CO  CO  CO 

p  p  fa"  fa' 

<  PQ  U  Q 


O 

o 

(N 

o 


o 
o 

(N 
l-i 

u 


a, 

O 
C/3 


CO 


3 

o 

00 


o 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


47 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

Intersection  Operating  Conditions 

Existing  intersection  LOS  operating  conditions  were  conducted  for  fourteen  key  intersection  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  project  site  for  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  conditions. 
Operating  conditions  were  based  on  recent  intersection  and  roadway  traffic  count  data  collected  in 
the  spring  of  2001,  fall  of  2001  and  the  winter  of  2002.3 

Intersection  LOS  is  a  qualitative  description  of  an  intersection's  performance  based  on  the  average 
delay  per  vehicle.  Intersection  LOS  ranges  from  LOS  A,  which  indicates  free  flow  or  excellent 
conditions  with  short  delays,  to  LOS  F,  which  indicates  congested  or  overloaded  conditions  with 
extremely  long  delays.  Typically,  LOS  E  and  F  represent  unacceptable  levels  of  service. 

Both  signalized  and  unsignalized  intersections  were  evaluated  using  the  HCM  methodology.  For 
signalized  intersections,  this  method  determines  the  capacity  for  each  lane  group  approaching  the 
intersection.  The  LOS  is  then  based  on  average  delay  (in  seconds  per  vehicle)  for  the  various 
movements  within  the  intersection.  A  combined  weighted  average  delay  and  LOS  is  presented  for 
the  intersection.  For  unsignalized  intersections,  average  delay  and  LOS  are  calculated  by  approach 
(e.g.,  southbound)  and  movement  (e.g.,  southbound  left-turn),  for  those  movements  that  are  subject 
to  delay.  For  the  purpose  of  this  report,  the  operating  conditions  (LOS  and  delay)  for  unsignalized 
intersections  are  presented  for  the  worst  approach,  or  the  approach  that  would  be  most  affected  by 
the  proposed  project  (e.g.,  the  northbound  approach  at  the  intersection  of  Oakdale/Loomis  and  the 
southbound  approach  at  the  intersection  of  Industrial/Loomis). 

Table  2  on  the  following  page  presents  the  existing  intersection  Level  of  Service  for  weekday  PM 
peak  hour  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  conditions.  During  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  all 
signalized  intersections  operate  with  acceptable  operating  conditions  (LOS  D  or  better).  In  addition, 
at  the  four  STOP-controlled  intersections,  the  worst  STOP-controlled  approaches  all  operate  with 
acceptable  conditions.  During  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  ?.ll  signalized  intersections  and  all 
worst  approaches  at  the  STOP-controlled  intersections  operate  at  LOS  D  or  better. 


Intersection  counts  conducted  after  existing  uses  on  the  project  site  (Goodman  and  Whole  Earth 
Access)  were  closed. 


200I.0062E  491  Bayshorc/1 96  Loomis  Street 


48 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 


<3J 
U 

> 

u 

<u 
t/2 

© 


> 

75  J 
H  3 
o 


co 
i_ 

3 

O 

a 

ca 
<u 
Pi 

« 

T3 
T3 


« 

S_ 

3 

-*-> 
C3 

T3 

Cm 

>> 

C3 

cu 


3 
O 

es 
a» 
Ph 

eJ 
T3 
T3 


u 
3 

tV3 


w 

4) 
•-^ 
O 
S- 

Ph 

+ 

3 


3 

O 

W 

at 
Pi 


2£ 


T3 
3 
O 

u 

-4-> 

u 

"o 
s- 

Pi 

co 
3 


WD 
3 

CO 


3 

o 

■4-1 

u 

cu 

CO 

L-. 

cu 


C/3 

O 


3 
Q 


©J3 
3 


O 


u 

O) 

'o> 

Pi 

+ 

3 


O 


CU 


O 


es 
Q 


QOQOPQQO<<Q 


o   od   ^  — 5   <N   on  ^ 


qopqupqopq<<:o 


oo  y   "   1   9  in 
tS    H    ^    c)    -i  M 


QQQQOOO<PQO 


— i  r-~  © 


On  (N 

(N    <N    (N    co    <N  - — i  < — i    "  ^ 


UOUQOUO^PQPQ 


h  N    0\    VI  (S 

-!f  o\  K  «fi  vd  vi 


ffl  pa  o  ffl 


ro  r-^ 
oi   oo   oo  in 


PQ   PQ   PQ  PQ 


o\  *t  vq  oo 
od   >c   oo  > 


U   PQ  U  PQ 


^  Os  ^ 
O    ^  VO 


r-   )2  oo 


PQ   PQ  U  PQ 


oo  i> 


T3 

.« 

73 

3 


PQ 


00 


<D 

<D 

CD 

u, 

l-c 

l-l 

o 

o 

O 

o 

o 

,3 

.3 

A 

^ 

CO 

CO 

co 

CO 

co 

>. 

>, 

CO 

ed 

cd 

a 

PQ  PQ  PQ  PQ 


-rHOlfflTfVlVJhOOO>-H 

03  


OO  o  5 

P  i-h  <n  rn  tI- 
pi  > — i  i— (  »— i  i 

^0  


O 

o 

fN 
O 


o 
o 

(N 
l-i 

1 

H, 


CJ 

"o 
o 

CO 
CO 

J3 


OO 


00  Z 


o 

c3 
O 

Oh 

id 

Ja  43  j= 


v  &  & 
■§11 

"o  oo  o  o 

43 


Oh 

CO 

*d 
d 
o 
o 


o 

43 
43 

e 

o 

3 


CU  I— I 


c 


X)  T3 

CL>  CU 

c  c 

CU  CU 

co  co 

cu  cu 

.  CX  &. 

00  00 

O  O 

_l  i— 1 

-a  -a 

c  a 

a  w 

>^ 

cd  c3 


cu    a)    cu  cu 

Q  Q  Q  Q 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


49 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

Since  the  time  the  traffic  counts  were  conducted  and  the  intersection  operating  conditions  were 
developed  for  this  report,  the  intersection  of  Oakdale/Loomis  Streets  was  converted  from  two-way 
STOP-controlled  (STOP  signs  at  the  northbound  and  southbound  Loomis  Street  approaches)  to  all- 
way  STOP-controlled.  Due  to  the  high  volume  of  traffic  on  Oakdale  Street,  it  was  difficult  for 
vehicles  at  the  northbound  and  southbound  approaches  to  travel  through  the  intersection.  However, 
with  the  installation  of  STOP-signs  for  Oakdale  Avenue  traffic,  it  has  been  observed  that  the  average 
delay  per  vehicle  at  the  northbound  and  southbound  approaches  has  substantially  decreased. 

In  2000,  the  San  Francisco  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  (DPT)  instituted  the  Bernal  Heights 
Traffic  Calming  Project  Plan  to  address  traffic  problems  in  the  Bernal  Heights  residential  and 
commercial  neighborhood.4  The  goal  of  the  project  was  to  identify  traffic  issues  in  the  neighborhood 
(such  as  speeding,  congestion,  cut-through  traffic  and  collision  hot-spots)  and  to  address  these  issues 
through  the  placement  of  a  series  of  traffic  calming  measures,  including  traffic  circles,  islands  and 
bulb-outs.  Along  Cortland  Avenue,  the  DPT  Plan  identified  the  following  concerns:  cut-through 
traffic  along  the  entire  street  between  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Mission  Street;  collision  hot-spots  at 
the  intersections  with  Bayshore  Boulevard,  Nevada  Street,  Ellsworth  Street,  Andover  Street  and 
Mission  Street;  and  congestion  at  the  intersections  of  Cortland/ Andover  and  Mission/Cortland.  To 
address  these  issues,  the  study  recommended  the  installation  of  center  islands,  new  crosswalks,  high- 
visibility  crosswalks,  curb  bulb-outs  and  textured  intersections  along  the  street. 

In  addition,  the  study  identified  concerns  at  the  intersection  of  Alemany/Putnam/U.S.  101 
southbound  off-ramp,  including  speeding,  cut-through  traffic,  collisions  and  congestion.  To  address 
these  issues,  the  study  recommended  the  installation  of  a  new  traffic  island  and  high-visibility 
crosswalks. 

The  proposed  traffic  calming  measures,  if  implemented,  would  affect  the  configuration  of  the  study 
intersections  of  Mission/Cortland,  Cortland/Andover,  Cortland/Folsom  and  Alemany/Putnam/U.S. 
101  southbound  off-ramp.  However,  these  proposed  changes  would  not  substantially  affect 
intersection  operating  conditions,  since  the  changes  would  not  reduce  the  number  of  traffic  lanes, 
alter  the  traffic  control  devices,  or  substantially  reduce  the  traffic  volumes.     As  a  result, 

4     San  Francisco  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic,  Draft  South  Bernal  Heights  Traffic  Calming 
Plan,  2002. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


50 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

implementation  of  Bernal  Heights  Traffic  Calming  Project  would  not  affect  the  intersection  level  of 
service  analysis  contained  in  this  report. 

Transit  Network 

Both  local  and  regional  transit  service  is  provided  near  the  proposed  project,  with  local  service 
provided  by  the  San  Francisco  Municipal  Railway  (Muni)  and  regional  service  provided  by 
SamTrans  (Figure  11,  page  52).  In  addition,  regional  service,  such  as  BART,  SamTrans,  Golden 
Gate  Transit  and  AC  Transit  is  provided  in  downtown  San  Francisco  and  can  be  accessed  by  the 
adjacent  transit  lines. 

Muni:  The  San  Francisco  Municipal  Railway  provides  transit  service  within  the  City  and  County  of 
San  Francisco,  operates  several  types  of  service,  including  bus  (diesel  and  electric  trolley),  light  rail 
(Muni  Metro),  cable  car,  and  electric  streetcar.  The  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  Avenues  is  a 
major  transfer  point  for  the  Muni-9  San  Bruno,  23-Monterey  and  the  24-Divisidero.  Four  Muni  bus 
lines  provide  service  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site,  as  discussed  below: 

•  The  9-San  Bruno  operates  between  Visitacion  Valley  and  downtown  San  Francisco.  The  9- 
San  Bruno  is  a  local  route  which  operates  seven  days  a  week,  with  headways  between  8  and 
15  minutes.  The  closest  inbound  (toward  downtown)  stops  are  located  near  the  intersection 
of  Bayshore/Marengo  Street  and  in  front  of  the  vacant  Goodman  Lumber  building  on 
Bayshore.  Outbound,  the  closest  stop  is  located  directly  across  the  street  from  the  site  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard. 

•  The  23-Monterey  is  a  cross-town  bus  route  in  the  south  section  of  San  Francisco.  The  23- 
Monterey  operates  seven  days  a  week,  with  headways  between  15  and  20  minutes.  The  line 
links  the  San  Francisco  Zoo  (west)  at  Sloat  Boulevard  to  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area 
(east)  along  Palou  Avenue.  In  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site,  the  23-Monterey  operates  on 
Industrial  Avenue  and  Bayshore  Boulevard,  with  the  closest  inbound  stop  located  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard  in  front  of  the  project  site  and  the  closest  outbound  stop  directly  across 
the  street  from  the  site  on  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

•  The  24-Divisidero  is  a  cross-town  route  which  provides  travel  between  the  Pacific  Heights, 
Haight,  Castro,  Noe  Valley,  Glen  Park,  Bernal  Heights  and  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
neighborhoods.  The  24-Divisidero  operates  seven  days  a  week,  at  15-  to  20-minute 
headways  throughout  the  day.  In  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site,  the  24-Divisidero  operates 
on  Cortland  and  Industrial  Avenues,  with  the  closest  inbound  and  outbound  stops  located 
near  the  intersection  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


51 


July  28,  2005 


—I  9,  9X,  9 AX  ^»    MUNI  route 


—  -|  292,397  H  - 


SamTrans 


Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates 

_  EXISTING  TRANSIT  NETWORK    FIGURE  11 


200I.0062E  491  Bay  shore/ 196  Loomis  Street  52  July  28, 2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

•  The  44-O'Shaughnessy  is  a  cross-town  route  which  provides  travel  between  the  Inner 
Richmond,  Golden  Gate  Park,  Twin  Peaks,  Glen  Park,  Portola,  Silver  Terrace  and  Bayview 
Hunters  Point  neighborhoods.  The  44-O'Shaughnessy  operates  at  10-  to  20-minute 
headways  throughout  the  day.  In  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site,  the  44-O'Shaughnessy 
operates  on  Silver  Avenue,  with  the  closest  stop  located  near  the  intersection  of 
Bayshore/Silver. 

SamTrans:  The  San  Mateo  County  Transit  District  (SamTrans)  provides  bus  service  between  San 
Mateo  County  and  San  Francisco.  SamTrans  operates  14  bus  lines  which  serve  San  Francisco, 
including  12  routes  into  the  downtown  area.  Two  SamTrans  bus  routes  (#292  and  #397)  run  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard  and  provide  service  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site.  The  #292  operates 
between  San  Mateo  (at  the  Hillsdale  Caltrain  station),  the  San  Francisco  airport  and  downtown  San 
Francisco,  with  15-  to  40-minute  headways  on  weekdays  and  30-  to  60-minute  headways  on 
weekends.  The  #397  provides  late-night  service  with  one-hour  headways  between  Palo  Alto  (at  the 
Palo  Alto  Caltrain  station)  and  downtown  San  Francisco  on  weekdays  and  weekends.  The  nearest 
inbound  (towards  downtown  San  Francisco)  SamTrans  stop  is  located  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the 
south  of  Waterloo  Street,  and  the  nearest  outbound  (away  from  downtown  San  Francisco)  stop  is 
located  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  north  of  Cortland  Avenue. 

Parking  Conditions 

The  existing  on-street  parking  supply  and  occupancy  were  qualitatively  assessed  for  the  east  side  of 
Bayshore  Boulevard  and  both  sides  of  Loomis  Street  between  Industrial  Street  and  Oakdale  Avenue. 
The  parking  supply  and  occupancy  were  estimated  based  on  field  observations  conducted  in  April 
2001,  from  1:00  to  3:00  p.m.  for  weekday  and  Saturday  conditions,  which  represent  the  peak  parking 
periods  of  the  surrounding  neighborhood.  In  general,  the  on-street  parking  throughout  the  study  area 
is  unmetered  and  unrestricted  with  the  exception  of  street  cleaning  restrictions.  Approximately  125 
on-street  parking  spaces  were  identified  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Loomis  Street,  of  which  about 
50  percent  were  estimated  to  be  occupied  on  the  weekday  and  weekend  afternoon  periods. 

Pedestrian  Conditions 

The  sidewalks  along  the  east  side  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  are  12-  to  15-feet  wide  and  crosswalks 
across  Bayshore  Boulevard  are  also  12-  to  15-feet  wide.  On  typical  weekdays  and  weekends, 
pedestrian  activity  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  project  site  is  relatively  light  throughout  the  day. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


53 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

Pedestrians  are  able  to  easily  walk  along  the  adjacent  sidewalks  and  crosswalks  without  interference 
from  vehicles  and  buses. 

The  distance  across  Bayshore  Boulevard  at  Cortland  Avenue  is  about  100  feet  curb-to-curb  (six 
travel  lanes,  two  parking  lanes  and  one  center  turn  lane).  Currently,  about  20  to  25  seconds  is 
provided  at  the  traffic  signals  for  pedestrians  to  cross  Bayshore  Boulevard.  At  the  north  side 
crosswalk  at  this  location,  a  small  mid-street  island  is  available  for  persons  unable  to  cross  within  the 
allotted  time.  Based  on  field  observations,  the  primary  reason  for  not  crossing  completely  is  due  to 
pedestrians  leaving  late  into  the  cycle,  jaywalking,  or  experiencing  delays  due  to  traffic  turning  off  of 
Cortland  Avenue. 

Bicycle  Conditions 

There  are  a  number  of  bicycle  routes  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site.  Route  #25  runs  along 
Bayshore  Boulevard  and  serves  as  a  primary  north-south  route  linking  the  southeastern  part  of  San 
Francisco  to  the  Marina  District.  To  the  south  of  the  project  site,  the  #25  route  runs  on  Paul  Avenue 
and  San  Bruno  Avenue;  north  of  the  project  site  the  #25  route  runs  on  Oakdale  Avenue  and  Potrero 
Avenue.  In  addition,  bicycle  routes  are  also  located  on  Oakdale  Avenue  (#7  and  #70)  and  Silver 
Avenue  (#70).  These  bicycle  routes  are  classified  as  Class  III,  which  means  they  contain  route  signs 
only,  with  no  separate  bicycle  paths  or  lanes.  On  typical  weekdays  and  weekends,  bicycle  activity  in 
the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  proposed  project  is  light  throughout  the  day. 

Impacts 

Significance  Criteria 

The  following  are  the  significance  criteria  used  by  the  Planning  Department  for  the  determination  of 
impacts  associated  with  the  proposed  project: 

Freeway  on-ramps:  The  operational  impact  on  freeway  on-ramps  is  considered  significant  when 
project-related  traffic  causes  the  on-ramp/freeway  junction  level  of  service  to  deteriorate  from  LOS 
D  or  better  to  LOS  E  or  F,  or  from  LOS  E  to  LOS  F.  In  addition,  the  project  would  have  a  significant 
effect  on  the  environment  if  it  would  contribute  substantially  (over  five  percent  contribution  to  the 
ramp  volumes)  to  on-ramp  congestion  already  at  unacceptable  levels,  such  that  the  period  of  peak 
congestion  would  be  substantially  lengthened. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


54 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 


Intersections:  The  operational  impact  on  signalized  intersections  is  considered  significant  when 
project-related  traffic  causes  the  intersection  level  of  service  to  deteriorate  from  LOS  D  or  better  to 
LOS  E  or  F,  or  from  LOS  E  to  LOS  F.  The  project  may  result  in  significant  adverse  impacts  at 
intersections  that  operate  at  LOS  E  or  F  under  existing  conditions  depending  upon  the  magnitude  of 
the  project's  contribution  to  the  worsening  of  the  average  delay  per  vehicle.  In  addition,  the  project 
would  have  a  significant  adverse  effect  if  it  would  cause  major  traffic  hazards  or  contribute 
considerably  to  cumulative  traffic  increases  that  would  cause  deterioration  in  levels  of  service  to 
unacceptable  levels. 

Transit:  The  project  would  have  a  significant  effect  on  the  environment  if  it  would  cause  a 
substantial  increase  in  transit  demand  that  could  not  be  accommodated  by  existing  or  proposed  transit 
capacity,  resulting  in  unacceptable  levels  of  transit  service;  or  cause  a  substantial  increase  in 
operating  costs  such  that  significant  adverse  impacts  in  transit  service  levels  could  result. 

Parking:  Parking  supply  is  not  considered  to  be  a  part  of  the  permanent  physical  environment  in 
San  Francisco.5  Parking  conditions  are  not  static,  as  parking  supply  and  demand  vary  from  day  to 
night,  day  to  day,  month  to  month,  etc.  Hence,  the  availability  of  parking  spaces  (or  lack  thereof)  is 
not  a  permanent  physical  condition,  but  changes  over  time  as  people  change  their  modes  and  patterns 
of  travel.  Therefore,  parking  deficits  are  considered  to  be  social  effects,  rather  than  impacts  on  the 
physical  environment  as  defined  by  CEQA. 

Thus,  a  parking  shortage  is  not  considered  to  be  a  permanent  condition  and  is  also  not  considered  to 
be  a  physical  environmental  impact  even  though  it  is  understood  to  be  an  inconvenience  to  drivers. 
Therefore,  the  creation  of  or  an  increase  in  parking  demand  resulting  from  a  proposed  project  that 
cannot  be  met  by  existing  or  proposed  parking  facilities  would  not  in  and  of  itself  be  considered  a 
significant  environmental  effect  under  CEQA.  In  the  absence  of  such  physical  environmental 
impacts,  CEQA  does  not  require  environmental  documents  to  propose  mitigation  measures  solely 
because  a  project  is  expected  to  generate  parking  shortfalls. 

5    Under  California  Public  Resources  Code  Section  21060.5,  "environment"  means  "the  physical 
conditions  which  exist  within  the  area  which  will  be  affected  by  a  proposed  project,  including  land,  air,  water, 
minerals,  flora,  fauna,  noise,  and  objects  of  historic  or  aesthetic  significance. ' 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


55 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 


Parking  deficits  may  be  associated  with  secondary  physical  environmental  impacts,  such  as  increased 
traffic  congestion  at  intersections,  air  quality,  or  noise  effects  caused  by  congestion.  However,  as 
noted  above,  in  the  experience  of  San  Francisco  transportation  planners,  the  absence  of  a  ready 
supply  of  parking  spaces,  combined  with  available  alternatives  to  auto  travel  (e.g.,  transit,  taxis, 
bicycles  or  travel  by  foot)  and  the  relatively  dense  patterns  of  urban  development,  may  induce  drivers 
to  seek  and  find  alternative  parking  facilities,  shift  to  other  modes  of  travel,  or  change  their  overall 
travel  habits.  Any  such  resulting  shifts  to  transit  service,  in  particular,  would  be  in  keeping  with  the 
City's  "Transit  First"  policy. 

Additionally,  regarding  potential  secondary  effects,  cars  circling  and  looking  for  a  parking  space  in 
areas  of  limited  parking  supply  is  typically  a  temporary  condition,  often  offset  by  a  reduction  in 
vehicle  trips  due  to  others  who  are  aware  of  constrained  parking  conditions  in  a  given  area.  Hence, 
any  secondary  environmental  impacts  that  may  result  from  a  shortfall  in  parking  in  the  vicinity  of  the 
proposed  project  would  likely  be  minor  and  difficult  to  predict. 

Pedestrians:  The  project  would  have  a  significant  effect  on  the  environment  if  it  were  to  result  in 
substantial  overcrowding  on  public  sidewalks,  create  potentially  hazardous  conditions  for 
pedestrians,  or  otherwise  interfere  with  pedestrian  accessibility  to  the  site  and  adjoining  areas. 

Bicycles:  The  project  would  have  a  significant  effect  on  the  environment  if  it  would  create 
potentially  hazardous  conditions  for  bicyclists  or  otherwise  substantially  interfere  with  bicycle 
accessibility  to  the  site  and  adjoining  areas. 

Loading:  Loading  impacts  were  assessed  by  comparing  the  proposed  loading  space  supply  to  the 
Planning  Code  requirements  and  the  estimated  loading  demand  during  the  peak  hour  of  loading 
activities.  The  project  would  have  a  significant  effect  if  the  demand  for  loading  space  would  be 
substantially  greater  than  the  loading  dock  supply. 

Construction:  Construction-related  impacts  generally  would  not  be  considered  significant  due  to 
their  temporary  and  limited  duration. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshorc/1 96  Loomis  Street 


56 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

Project  Travel  Demand 

For  the  purpose  of  the  analysis  contained  in  this  report,  both  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  (generally 
5:00  to  6:00  p.m.)  and  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (generally  12:00  to  1:00  p.m.)  conditions  were 
assessed,  since  they  represent  the  worst  weekday  and  weekend  conditions  of  the  local  transportation 
network.  Due  to  the  unique  nature  of  the  proposed  land  use,  standard  trip  generation  and  mode  splits 
from  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department's  Interim  Transportation  Impact  Analysis  Guidelines^ 
(SF  Guidelines)  were  not  used.  To  determine  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trip  generation,  driveway 
counts  were  performed  at  four  similar  Home  Depot  stores  in  California  (see  Appendix  B),  so  that  the 
trip  generation  of  the  proposed  project  could  be  based  on  actual  activity  levels.  These  four 
comparable  stores  were  selected  based  on  their  access  (either  free-standing  or  with  separate 
entrances/exits  for  their  parking  facilities)  and  location  (within  urbanized  areas).  From  the  driveway 
counts,  weekday  PM  peak  hour  vehicle-trip  generation  rates  (on  a  per  square  foot  basis)  were 
developed.  The  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  trip  generation  was  based  on  a  comparison  between 
weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  driveway  counts  from  the  Colma  store.  To 
determine  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  trip  generation,  the  ratio  between  the  weekday  PM  peak 
hour  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  driveway  counts  from  the  Colma  store  was  ascertained.  This 
ratio  was  applied  to  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trip  generation  rate  for  the  proposed  project  to 
estimate  the  project's  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  trip  generation  rate. 

Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour  Trip  Generation:  During  the 
weekday  PM  peak  hour,  the  average  trip  generation  rate  for  the  four  surveyed  locations  was  5.54 
vehicle-trips  per  1,000  sq.ft.,  with  approximately  48  percent  of  the  vehicle-trips  inbound  to  the  site 
and  52  percent  outbound  from  the  site.  During  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  the  trip  generation 
rate  was  estimated  to  be  8.88  vehicle-trips  per  1,000  sq.ft.,  with  approximately  52  percent  inbound  to 
the  site  and  48  percent  outbound  from  the  site. 

Weekday  Peak  Hour  of  Activity  Trip  Generation:  It  should  be  noted  that  the  peak  hour  of 
weekday  activity  for  the  proposed  land  use  typically  occurs  during  the  middle  of  the  day.  During 
this  period,  the  maximum  number  of  vehicles  entering  and  exiting  at  the  project  driveways  on 

6    San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  Interim  Transportation  Impact  Analysis  Guidelines  for 
Environmental  Review,  January  2000. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


57 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

weekdays  would  occur.  Although  the  proposed  project  would  generate  more  vehicle-trips  during  this 
peak  hour  of  activity  than  during  the  PM  peak  hour,  the  total  intersection  volumes  would  be  lower, 
resulting  in  equal  to  or  better  intersection  operating  conditions;  as  such,  only  the  queuing  analysis 
was  conducted  for  this  time  period.  It  was  estimated  that  the  trip  generation  during  the  peak  hour  of 
activity  would  be  approximately  25  percent  greater  than  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,7  which 
would  result  in  a  trip  generation  rate  of  about  6.93  vehicle-trips  per  1,000  sq.ft.  In  addition,  it  was 
estimated  that  52  percent  of  the  vehicle-trips  would  be  inbound  to  the  site  and  48  percent  would  be 
outbound  from  the  site  during  this  period. 

Mode  Split  Assumptions:  Due  to  the  nature  and  typical  location  of  Home  Depot  stores,  very  few 
customers  and  employees  take  transit,  walk,  or  bicycle  to  and  from  the  store.  Since  the  proposed 
project  would  be  located  in  a  more  urban  and  transitAvalk/bicycle-accessible  area  than  most  other 
Home  Depot  locations,  it  is  likely  that  more  employees  and  customers  may  travel  to  and  from  the 
proposed  project  via  these  non-vehicular  modes.  However,  for  the  purpose  of  the  analysis  contained 
in  this  report,  it  was  assumed  that  all  customer  and  employee  trips  generated  by  the  proposed  project 
would  be  via  private  vehicles.  This  assumption  would  result  in  a  conservative  estimate  in  the  number 
of  vehicle-trips  generated  by  the  proposed  project,  and  would  therefore  result  in  a  conservative 
analysis  of  the  traffic  impacts  associated  with  the  proposed  project.  The  same  mode  split 
assumptions  were  used  for  the  analysis  of  the  three  study  time  periods. 

Overall,  the  proposed  project  would  generate  848  vehicle-trips  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  of 
which  409  vehicle-trips  would  be  inbound  to  the  site  and  439  vehicle-trips  would  be  outbound  from 
the  site.  During  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  the  proposed  project  would  generate  about  1,268 
vehicle-trips,  of  which  657  vehicle-trips  would  be  inbound  and  61 1  vehicle-trips  would  be  outbound. 
During  the  weekday  peak  period  of  activity,  the  proposed  project  would  generate  about  1,060 
vehicle-trips,  of  which  551  vehicle-trips  would  be  inbound  and  509  vehicle-trips  would  be  outbound. 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  Home  Depot  driveway  counts  used  to  develop  the  trip  generation  rates 
were  conducted  during  the  month  of  July.  According  to  information  provided  by  the  project  sponsor, 
the  monthly  sales  at  Home  Depot  stores  vary  throughout  the  calendar  year.  However,  the  highest 

7    Institute  of  Transportation  Engineers  (ITE)  Trip  Generation,  6th  Edition.  Land  Use  #862. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


58 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

monthly  sales  activity  typically  occurs  in  July,  with  sales  over  20  percent  greater  than  average. 
Monthly  sales  activity  during  the  holidays  (November  and  December)  is  substantially  lower.  As 
such,  the  trip  generation  rates  used  in  this  analysis  represent  the  peak  month  of  activity  and  would 
therefore  represent  the  highest  traffic  volumes  expected  to  be  generated  by  the  proposed  project. 

In  addition,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  weekday  peak  hour  and  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour  trip  generation  rates  used  in  this  analysis  are  substantially  higher  than  those 
presented  in  the  Institute  of  Transportation  Engineers  (ITE)  Trip  Generation  manual  for  a  similar 
land  use.  As  a  result,  the  trip  generation  rates  in  this  analysis  would  also  result  in  a  more 
conservative  analysis  of  the  traffic  impacts  associated  with  the  proposed  project. 

Trip  Distribution/Traffic  Assignment:  As  a  means  to  determine  the  distribution  of  the  vehicle- 
trips  generated  by  the  proposed  project,  demographic  forecasts  for  the  proposed  Bayshore  Boulevard 
location  were  provided  by  the  project  sponsor.  The  project  sponsor  hired  a  market  research  firm  to 
estimate  the  geographic  location  of  its  potential  customers.  This  distribution  was  determined  at  a  zip 
code  level  and  accounted  for  the  characteristics  of  the  proposed  store  and  its  surrounding  population. 
The  characteristics  of  the  store  included  the  location  of  sister  stores  and  the  location  of  nearby 
competitors.  The  characteristics  of  the  potential  users  were  based  on  various  factors  of  each  nearby 
zip  code,  including  the  average  distance  to  the  store,  number  of  dwelling  units,  percent  of  units  that 
are  owner  occupied,  and  the  median  income  of  residents.  Based  on  the  demographic  forecasts,  it  was 
estimated  that  76  percent  of  the  customers  of  the  proposed  project  would  come  from  San  Francisco, 
with  the  remainder  from  cities  to  the  south  (including  Brisbane,  Daly  City,  South  San  Francisco,  San 
Mateo,  Millbrae,  San  Bruno  and  Colma). 

This  distribution  was  used  as  the  basis  for  assigning  the  project-generated  trips  to  the  local  streets 
and  regional  freeways  in  the  study  area.  For  each  zip  code,  potential  vehicular  routes  to  and  from  the 
project  site  were  identified  (with  consultation  of  Planning  Department  staff),  and  traffic  was  assigned 
based  on  the  most  convenient  routes.  Based  on  the  location  of  the  major  roadways,  freeways  and 
their  on-  and  off-ramps,  it  was  estimated  that  approximately  24  percent  of  the  vehicles  would 
approach  the  proposed  project  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard,  48  percent  from  northbound 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  13  percent  from  Cortland  Avenue  and  15  percent  from  Loomis  Street.  These 
assignments  were  used  for  all  analysis  time  periods. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


59 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

Parking  Demand:  Parking  demand  for  the  proposed  project  was  estimated  from  a  parking  demand 

Q 

study  conducted  at  other  Home  Depot  stores  nationwide.  For  the  study,  the  hourly  parking  demand 
(both  customer  and  employee)  for  26  stores  was  counted  on  weekdays  and  weekends.  The  annual 
sales  information  for  each  store  was  obtained,  and  the  sales  information  for  the  parking  survey  day 
was  compared  to  the  annual  total.  Based  on  this  ratio,  the  parking  demand  was  adjusted  to  account 
for  the  fifth  busiest  day  at  each  store  (parking  facilities  are  typically  sized  to  accommodate  the  fifth 
busiest  day  of  activity,  also  referred  to  as  the  "design  day").  Parking  demand  equations  were  then 
developed  for  both  weekdays  and  weekends  based  on  the  size  of  the  facility,  in  terms  of  square 
footage  of  the  store  and  garden  center.  Overall,  the  proposed  project  is  anticipated  to  have  a  peak 
demand  for  502  spaces  on  a  weekday  and  539  spaces  on  a  weekend.  The  peak  parking  demand  for 
Home  Depot  stores  typically  occurs  between  12:00  and  2:00  p.m.  on  weekdays  and  between  12:00 
and  3:00  p.m.  on  weekends. 

To  ensure  that  the  study  parking  demand  rates  would  be  consistent  for  local  parking  characteristics, 
the  parking  demand  at  the  Home  Depot  store  in  Colma  was  determined  for  an  average  Saturday  in 
June.  During  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  the  parking  demand  at  the  Colma  store  was  counted  to 
be  367  spaces,  which  would  be  about  82  spaces  fewer  than  calculated  using  the  study  parking 
demand  rates  (449  spaces).  As  a  result,  it  is  anticipated  that  the  parking  demand  for  the  proposed 
project  would  be  equal  to,  or  less  than,  that  presented  above. 

Loading  Demand:  Freight  delivery  demand  generated  by  the  proposed  project  was  developed  from 
information  provided  by  the  project  sponsor  based  on  the  loading  activity  at  a  similar  Home  Depot 
location  (Colma).  It  was  estimated  that  the  proposed  project  would  generate  30  trucks  per  day  -  15 
semi  tractor-trailers  and  15  small  trucks/vans.  In  general,  deliveries  would  be  made  between  7:00 
a.m.  and  5:00  p.m.,  with  occasional  deliveries  scheduled  between  6:00  and  7:00  a.m.,  or  between 
5:00  and  6:00  p.m.  The  peak  of  the  loading  activities  is  anticipated  to  occur  between  10:00  a.m.  and 
1:00  p.m.,  with  approximately  50  percent  of  the  activities  scheduled  for  this  period.  The  project 
sponsor  estimated  that  there  would  be  an  average  demand  for  two  loading  docks  and  a  peak  demand 
for  four  loading  docks  (two  long-term  and  two  short-term)  at  the  proposed  project.  In  addition, 
several  of  the  small  deliveries  would  likely  take  place  next  to  the  garden  center,  in  the  rear  lumber 
off-loading  area,  or  near  the  front  of  the  store. 


"Parking  Demand  Study  -  The  Home  Depot"  by  Barton-Aschman  Associates,  Inc.  January  1992. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


60 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

Freeway  On- Ramp  Impacts 

As  Table  1  (page  47)  indicates,  the  addition  of  the  vehicle-trips  generated  by  the  proposed  project 
would  not  change  the  operating  conditions  at  the  study  locations  for  either  the  weekday  PM  peak 
hour  or  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  analyses.  All  study  freeway  on-ramps  would  continue  to 
operate  at  the  same  levels  of  service  as  under  existing  conditions. 

It  should  be  noted  that  with  the  HCM  methodology  for  determining  the  operating  conditions  of 
freeway  on-ramps,  the  density  of  the  on-ramp/freeway  junction  is  based  upon  the  combined  on-ramp 
volume  and  freeway  mainline  volume.  As  a  result,  minor  changes  to  the  on-ramp  volumes  (e.g.,  with 
the  addition  of  the  new  vehicle-trips  generated  by  the  proposed  project)  would  not  result  in 
substantial  changes  to  the  density,  and  correspondingly,  the  operating  conditions  of  the  study  on- 
ramps. 

The  two  study  freeway  on-ramps  that  operate  at  LOS  F  under  Existing  conditions  would  continue  to 
operate  at  LOS  F  under  Existing  plus  Project  conditions.  Overall,  the  proposed  project  would 
contribute  about  3.5  percent  to  the  total  traffic  volumes  at  the  westbound  1-280  on-ramp  from 
Alemany  Boulevard  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  and  about  2.2  percent  to  the  total  traffic 
volumes  at  the  northbound  U.S.  101  on-ramp  from  Bayshore/Cesar  Chavez  during  the  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour.  Since  the  proposed  project's  contribution  is  less  than  five  percent  and  would  be 
imperceptible  to  drivers,  it  would  not  have  a  significant  contribution  to  poor  operating  conditions  at 
both  freeway  on-ramp  analysis  locations  that  would  operate  at  LOS  F  under  Existing  and  Existing 
plus  Project  conditions. 

Intersection  Impacts 

Table  2  (page  49)  indicates  that  the  addition  of  project-generated  traffic  would  result  in  minimal 
changes  in  average  vehicle  delay  at  most  of  the  study  intersections,  and  all  study  intersections  would 
continue  to  operate  at  similar  service  levels  as  under  existing  conditions.  During  both  the  weekday 
PM  peak  hour  and  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  all  study  intersections  would  continue  to  operate 
with  acceptable  (LOS  D  or  better)  conditions,  and  the  proposed  project  would  not  result  in  any 
significant  impacts. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


61 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

Although  the  overall  levels  of  service  would  remain  similar,  vehicles  destined  to  and  from  the 
proposed  project  would  result  in  a  moderate  increase  in  delay  at  individual  movements  at  several 
study  intersections.  As  such,  vehicles  making  these  movements  may  experience  somewhat  higher 
delays  than  vehicles  at  the  intersection  as  a  whole.  However,  the  increase  in  delay  at  these  individual 
movements  would  not  result  in  the  intersection  operating  at  unacceptable  service  levels.  In  addition, 
the  proposed  project  would  also  result  in  increases  in  traffic  volumes  at  several  movements  at  the 
study  intersections.  These  volume  increases  would  not  increase  the  average  delay  per  vehicle  at  the 
individual  movements  or  the  intersections  as  a  whole. 

On  Cortland  Avenue,  the  proposed  project  would  add  about  106  vehicles  during  the  weekday  PM 
peak  hour  and  159  vehicles  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  Currently,  traffic  volumes  on 
Cortland  Avenue  are  relatively  light  (about  750  vehicles  per  hour  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour 
and  700  vehicles  per  hour  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour).  As  a  result,  the  new  vehicle-trips 
generated  by  the  proposed  project  would  increase  the  hourly  traffic  volumes  on  the  roadway.  Since 
the  existing  volumes  are  low,  however,  this  increase  would  not  substantially  worsen  operating 
conditions  of  intersections  along  Cortland  Avenue. 

Changes  to  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Bayshore/Cortland  Intersection:  As  part  of  the  proposed 
project,  the  configuration  of  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  would  be  modified  to  account  for 
vehicles  destined  to  and  from  the  proposed  parking  garage  (see  Figure  12,  page  63).  To 
accommodate  vehicles  destined  to  the  project  site  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard,  a 
southbound  left-turn  pocket  would  be  created  and  a  protected  left-turn  phase  would  be  established 
within  the  Bayshore/Cortland  signal  timing  plan.  In  addition,  to  account  for  the  changes  in  signal 
timing,  the  northbound  left-turn  pocket  would  need  to  be  extended.  Further  information  about  these 
changes  include  the  following: 

•  Currently,  there  is  a  center  two-way  turn  lane  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  between  Cortland  and 
Oakdale  Avenues  (i.e.,  both  northbound  and  southbound  left-turning  traffic  can  use  the  lane). 
To  provide  access  into  the  project  site  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  to  provide 
sufficient  storage  space  for  vehicles  waiting  in  queue,  a  portion  of  the  center-turn  lane  would 
need  to  be  converted  into  an  exclusive  southbound  left-turn  pocket.  Based  on  the  results  of 
the  queuing  analysis  (see  following  discussion),  a  distance  of  180  feet  would  be  sufficient  for 
the  left-turn  pocket. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshorc/196  Loomis  Street 


62 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

•  The  conversion  of  the  center-turn  lane  to  an  exclusive  southbound  left-turn  pocket  would 
affect  vehicular  access  from  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  approximately  12  parking 
spaces  located  at  470  Bayshore  Boulevard  (Kitchen  Appliance  Center).  Currently, 
northbound  traffic  can  enter  the  two-way  left  turn  lane  immediately  north  of  Cortland 
Avenue  and  access  the  90-degree  parking  spaces  located  in  front  of  the  store  (note  that  direct 
vehicular  access  would  continue  to  be  maintained  to  the  northern  parking  spaces  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard  and  to  the  separate  parking  lot  off  Cortland  Avenue).  Access  to  these  parking 
spaces  would  be  blocked  by  the  southbound  left-turn  pocket.  To  provide  access  to  these 
spaces,  a  northbound  U-turn  pocket  would  be  created.  This  pocket  would  be  located  directly 
north  of  the  southbound  left-turn  pocket,  and  would  allow  U-turns  to  occur  mid-block. 
Examples  of  these  facilities  can  be  found  further  north  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  on  South 
Van  Ness  Avenue. 

•  Traffic  signals  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  would  be  changed  with  the  proposed 
project.  Since  a  new  southbound  left-turn  phase  would  be  needed,  the  signals  on  both 
northbound  and  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  be  adjusted  or  upgraded.  In 
addition,  to  accommodate  vehicles  exiting  the  proposed  parking  garage,  a  new  traffic  signal 
would  be  installed  at  this  location  and  a  new  westbound  phase  to  the  signal  timing  would  be 
established. 

•  As  part  of  the  new  signalization,  pedestrian  signals  with  countdown  indicators 
(WALK/DON'T  WALK  indicators  which  present  the  time  remaining  to  cross  the  street) 
would  be  installed  at  all  four  crosswalks. 

•  The  northbound  left-turn  pocket  at  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  Cortland  Avenue  is  currently 
about  140  feet  long,  which  provides  storage  space  for  about  seven  vehicles.  Due  to  the 
changes  in  the  intersection  signal  timing  and  phasing,  however,  the  amount  of  green  time 
provided  to  the  northbound  left-turn  movement  would  decrease.  As  a  result,  the  length  of  the 
queue  would  increase  (as  discussed  in  the  following  section).  To  accommodate  this  longer 
queue,  the  northbound  left-turn  pocket  would  be  extended  by  approximately  70  feet  (to  a 
total  distance  of  210  feet)  by  carving  out  a  portion  of  the  center  concrete  island.  The  left-turn 
pocket  could  be  extended  up  to  280  feet  long.  This  change  would  not  affect  the  current 
configuration  of  the  northbound  and  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  travel  lanes. 

To  potentially  improve  operations  and  safety  of  the  eastbound  approach  of  Cortland  Avenue  to 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  the  current  configuration  of  the  street  could  be  modified  to  provide  two  lanes  in 
the  eastbound  approach  to  the  intersection.  This  would  be  an  improvement  measure  in  addition  to 
those  measures  proposed  as  part  of  the  project. 

At  the  eastbound  approach  of  Cortland  Avenue  to  Bayshore  Boulevard,  Cortland  Avenue  is  40  feet 
wide,  with  one  travel  lane  in  each  direction  and  on-street  parking  and  bus  stops  on  both  sides  of  the 
street.  At  the  approach,  the  bus  stop  for  the  Muni  24-Divisidero  is  120  feet  long  (the  entire  length  of 
the  block  between  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Hilton  Street)  and  the  travel  lane  is  17  feet  wide  (the 
travel  lane  for  westbound  Cortland  Avenue  is  23  feet  wide).  When  buses  are  not  stopped  at  the  bus 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


64 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

stop,  the  eastbound  approach  usually  operates  as  two  lanes  -  vehicles  turning  left  travel  in  the  regular 
traffic  lane  and  vehicles  turning  right  travel  in  the  bus  stop.  When  buses  are  stopped,  however,  they 
limit  the  potential  for  right-turning  vehicles  to  use  the  bus  stop  as  a  right-turn  lane  and  can  block  the 
regular  travel  lane.  When  this  occurs,  lengthy  queues  can  develop  and  vehicles  encroach  into  the 
westbound  lane  to  maneuver  around  the  stopped  bus. 

As  an  improvement  measure  to  improve  operations  and  safety  at  the  eastbound  approach  of  Cortland 
Avenue  to  Bayshore  Boulevard,  the  centerline  between  the  eastbound  and  westbound  directions 
could  be  restriped  to  provide  24  feet  in  the  eastbound  direction  and  16  feet  in  the  westbound 
direction.  In  addition,  the  bus  stop  could  be  shortened  to  60  feet  long  (starting  at  Hilton  Street)  and 
two  lanes  could  be  striped  at  the  approach  (providing  about  60  feet  at  the  second  lane).  As  a  result  of 
these  changes,  vehicular  circulation  would  improve  and  the  operating  conditions  of  the  approach  and 
the  entire  Bayshore/Cortland  intersection  with  the  project  would  be  helped  (to  an  average  delay  of 
26.9  seconds  per  vehicle  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  to  an  average  delay  of  33.8  seconds 
per  vehicle  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour). 

It  should  be  noted  that,  with  the  narrowed  westbound  lane,  long  trucks,  buses  and  other  similar 
vehicles  may  cross  the  center  line  when  turning  right  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard.  In 
addition,  with  a  16-foot-wide  westbound  lane,  the  two  on-street  parking  spaces  along  the  north  curb 
of  Cortland  Avenue  would  be  eliminated.  As  a  result,  additional  engineering  study  and  coordination 
with  the  appropriate  City  agencies  would  be  required  before  these  changes  could  be  implemented. 

Queuing  Analysis:  To  supplement  the  analysis  of  the  intersection  operating  conditions,  a  queuing 
analysis  was  performed  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland,  where  the  main  project  driveway 
would  be  located.  For  the  analysis,  the  queues  at  the  southbound  left-turn  from  Bayshore  Boulevard 
to  the  garage  driveway  at  Cortland  Avenue,  the  northbound  left-turn  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  to 
Cortland  Avenue  and  along  eastbound  Cortland  Avenue  approach  to  Bayshore  Boulevard  were 
assessed  for  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  and  weekday  peak  hour  of 
activity  conditions.  Both  Existing  and  Existing  plus  Project  conditions  were  examined  in  order  to  get 
a  magnitude  of  increase  comparison  for  the  northbound  left-turn  and  eastbound  queuing  conditions. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


65 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

Two  different  measures  of  the  queue  were  determined  for  the  queuing  analysis:  the  average  queue 
and  the  95th  percentile  queue.  The  average  queue  represents  the  length  of  the  queue  that  would  form 
if  vehicles  arrived  at  an  average,  constant  rate  to  the  intersection.  The  95th  percentile  queue 
represents  the  theoretical  maximum  queue  length  and  accounts  for  the  non-constant  arrival  rates  of 
vehicles  to  the  intersection.  The  95th  percentile  queue  is  used  for  the  design  of  turn  pockets,  as  the 
standard  is  to  have  a  pocket  of  sufficient  length  to  accommodate  the  95th  percentile  queue.  Both  the 
average  queue  and  the  95th  percentile  queue  lengths  were  calculated  using  a  computer  spreadsheet 
model  that  took  into  account  the  arrival  patterns  of  vehicles  at  intersections.  The  results  of  the 
analysis  are  shown  in  Table  3  on  page  67. 

At  the  southbound  left-turn  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  project  driveway,  average  queues 
would  be  about  50  to  100  feet  long  and  the  maximum  95th  percentile  queue  would  be  about  150  feet 
long,  or  about  six  to  seven  vehicles.  As  a  result,  the  proposed  left-turn  pocket  of  180  feet  would  be 
sufficient  to  accommodate  the  left-turning  queues  during  the  three  analysis  periods.  With  this 
pocket,  vehicles  attempting  to  enter  the  project  site  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  could  be 
contained  within  the  pocket  and  would  not  affect  through  traffic  operations  along  Bayshore 
Boulevard. 

At  the  northbound  left-turn  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  westbound  Cortland  Avenue,  the  pocket  is 
about  140  feet  long  and  would  be  extended  by  at  least  70  feet  (to  a  total  distance  of  210  feet)  with  the 
proposed  project.  The  pocket  could  be  potentially  extended  to  280  feet  long.  During  the  three 
analysis  periods,  the  95th  percentile  queues  that  currently  develop  at  this  movement  (generally 
between  55  and  135  feet  long)  can  all  be  accommodated  within  the  existing  pocket.  With  the 
proposed  project,  the  percentage  of  the  traffic  signal's  green  time  dedicated  to  the  northbound  left- 
turn  movement  would  decrease,  which  would  cause  the  queues  to  lengthen.  On  average,  the  queues 
that  would  develop  would  still  be  accommodated  within  the  existing  pocket.  However,  the  95th 
percentile  queue  would  be  about  205  feet  long  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  175  feet  long 
during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  The  extended  pocket  would  accommodate  these  queues.  It  is 
anticipated  that  this  change  would  not  affect  operations  along  northbound  or  southbound  Bayshore 
Boulevard. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


66 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 


Table  3 

Queuing  Analysis  at  Bayshore/Cortland  Intersection 

Existing  and  Existing  plus  Project  Conditions 

Location  /  Time  Period 

Existing 

Existing  plus  Project  ! 

Volume 

Queue  Length1 

Volume 

Queue  Length1 

Ave. 

95th 

Ave. 

95th 

Southbound  Left-Turn 

Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 

95 

50 

80 

Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 

155 

100 

150 

Weekday  Peak  Hour  of  Act. 

120 

50 

75 

Northbound  Left-Turn 

Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 

250 

90 

135 

250 

135 

205 

Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 

180 

55 

85 

180 

115 

175 

Weekday  Peak  Hour  of  Act. 

120 

35 

55 

120 

50 

75 

Eastbound  Approach 

Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 

290 

105 

155 

340 

185 

305 

Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 

410 

105 

160 

490 

275 

460 

Weekday  Peak  Hour  of  Act. 

300 

70 

105 

365 

140 

210 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates  -  March  2002 
Notes: 

All  distances  in  feet 

1  Queue  lengths  assumes  an  average  of  22  feet  per  vehicle. 


At  the  eastbound  approach  of  Cortland  Avenue  to  Bayshore  Boulevard,  the  95  percentile  queues 
that  currently  develop  extend  about  105  to  160  feet  (up  to  the  U.S.  101  overpass).  With  the  proposed 
project,  the  addition  of  project-related  traffic  and  adjustments  to  the  signal  timing  would  result  in  the 
lengthening  of  the  eastbound  queue.  The  average  queues  would  be  about  185  feet  during  the 
weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  275  feet  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (both  of  which  would 
extend  underneath  the  U.S.  101  overpass).  The  95th  percentile  queues  (which  would  occur  five 
percent  of  the  time  during  the  peak  hours,  or  about  once  or  twice  an  hour)  would  be  about  210  feet 
long  during  the  weekday  midday  peak  hour  of  activity,  305  feet  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour 
and  460  feet  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  This  95th  percentile  queue  during  the  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour  would  extend  past  the  intersection  of  Cortland/Peralta. 

Queues  at  the  Cortland  Avenue  approach  to  Bayshore  Boulevard  may  block  vehicular  access  to  the 
adjacent  business  establishments  (in  particular  the  parking  lot  and  loading  dock  at  the  Kitchen 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


67 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

Appliance  Center  at  470  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  the  back-of-house  operations  at  the  Floorcraft 
Nursery  at  550  Bayshore  Boulevard).  Since  there  are  no  cross-streets,  driveways  or  businesses/ 
residences  between  Hilton  Street  and  Peralta  Street,  these  queues  would  not  substantially  affect 
access  to  and  from  Cortland  Avenue.  Cortland  Avenue  is  the  only  substantial  east-west  street 
through  the  Bernal  Heights  area.  The  queues  at  the  eastbound  approach  to  Bayshore  Boulevard  may 
affect  overall  circulation  on  Cortland  Avenue.  To  avoid  the  queues  and  the  associated  delays  at  the 
Bayshore/Cortland  intersection,  drivers  may  divert  to  other  routes,  such  as  Putnam  Street  to  Crescent 
Avenue.  The  analysis  of  the  Bayshore/Cortland  intersection  and  the  Cortland  Avenue  approach 
accounted  for  the  delays  associated  with  these  queues.  The  proposed  improvements  to  the  eastbound 
approach  would  result  in  the  reduction  of  the  95th  percentile  queues  by  about  10  percent,  although 
the  resulting  queues  would  still  be  lengthy  (275  feet  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  410  feet 
during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  which  would  extend  almost  to  the  Cortland/Peralta 
intersection). 

In  addition,  the  queues  that  would  develop  at  the  northbound  left-turn  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  to 
westbound  Cortland  Avenue  and  along  the  eastbound  Cortland  Avenue  approach  to  Bayshore 
Boulevard  may  delay  operations  of  the  Muni  24-Divisidero  bus  line.  Due  to  the  increase  in  traffic 
volumes  at  these  movements  and  the  proposed  changes  to  the  signal  timing  plan,  buses  (as  well  as 
other  vehicles)  may  be  required  to  wait  to  travel  through  the  intersection  during  peak  hours.  The 
queues  at  these  two  locations  may  make  it  more  difficult  for  buses  to  access  the  bus  stops  on 
Cortland  Avenue,  which  may  delay  bus  operations  and  increase  wait  time  for  passengers.  However, 
since  the  eastbound  Muni  24-Divisidero  bus  line  is  near  the  end  of  its  line  (located  at  Third/Oakdale) 
and  has  relatively  low  ridership  at  this  location,  the  queuing  conditions  would  not  substantially  affect 
Muni  operations. 

Potential  queues  that  would  develop  at  the  main  driveway  to  the  proposed  project  (i.e.,  at  the 
northbound  right-turn  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  driveway)  may  force  both  Muni  and 
SamTrans  buses  to  use  the  center  lane  to  avoid  the  queues  and  additional  travel  delays,  however  this 
would  not  constitute  a  significant  impact. 

Transit  Impacts 

The  proposed  project  would  generate  relatively  few  transit  trips  on  weekdays  and  weekends,  as 
transit  trips  to  and  from  the  proposed  project  would  generally  be  limited  to  employees  or  customers 


200 1 .0062  E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


68 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

from  the  nearby  area.  As  such,  there  is  not  anticipated  to  be  an  adverse  increase  in  the  number  of 
riders  on  the  adjacent  transit  lines  as  a  result  of  the  proposed  project. 

Vehicular  activity  generated  by  the  proposed  project  may  somewhat  affect  Muni  and  SamTrans 
operations  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  In  particular,  a  bus  stop  for  the  Muni  9-San  Bruno  and  23- 
Monterey  bus  lines  is  located  in  close  proximity  to  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  driveway  for  the 
proposed  project's  parking  garage.  As  such,  there  would  be  a  potential  for  conflicts  between  buses 
pulling  into  and  out  of  the  curb  bus  stop  and  project-related  traffic  turning  into  and  out  of  the  garage. 
In  addition,  pedestrians  waiting  at  the  bus  stop  would  experience  higher  levels  of  vehicle  activity 
than  is  currently  occurring  at  this  location.  Muni  staff  has  indicated  that  it  wishes  to  maintain  the  bus 
stop  at  this  location  in  order  to  facilitate  transfers  between  bus  lines.9  Since  the  nearest  northbound 
SamTrans  bus  stop  is  located  south  of  Waterloo  Street,  vehicles  entering  and  exiting  the  project 
garage  would  not  directly  affect  SamTrans  bus  operations. 

Due  to  the  increased  traffic  in  the  vicinity  of  the  proposed  project,  travel  times  for  Muni  and 
SamTrans  buses  would  somewhat  increase.  However,  transit  vehicles  operating  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  Cortland  Avenue,  Industrial  Street  and  Oakdale  Avenue  would  experience  the  same 
delays,  queuing  and  levels  of  congestion  as  regular  vehicular  traffic,  as  indicated  in  the  intersection 
analysis  results.  In  addition,  transit  vehicles  may  experience  minor  delays  pulling  out  from  bus  stops 
into  the  travel  lanes  as  a  result  of  the  increased  traffic  volumes  and  queues. 

In  general,  transit  operations  would  be  most  affected  during  the  peak  hours  of  activity  at  the 
proposed  project  (primarily  during  the  weekday  midday  and  weekend  midday  periods).  During  these 
times,  the  frequency  of  service  and  the  ridership  of  the  nearby  Muni  and  SamTrans  bus  lines  are  less 
than  during  the  primary  morning  and  evening  peak  commute  hours.  In  addition,  the  eastbound  Muni 
24-Divisidero  bus  line  is  near  the  end  of  its  line  (located  at  Third/Oakdale)  so  the  Muni  schedule 
would  not  likely  be  affected.  As  a  result,  the  potential  queues  that  would  develop  at  the  main  access 
routes  to  the  proposed  project  and  the  increase  in  traffic  volumes  at  the  nearby  intersections  would 
not  adversely  affect  Muni  and  SamTrans  service  levels  and  therefore  would  not  result  in  a  significant 
impact  to  transit  operations. 


See  August  17,  2001  letter  from  Michael  Burns  (Muni)  to  Reuben  &  Alter,  LLP. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


69 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

The  proposed  improvements  to  eastbound  Cortland  Avenue  (as  discussed  above)  would  not 
adversely  affect  operations  of  the  Muni  24-Divisidero  bus  line.  Although  the  bus  stop  would  be 
shortened  (from  120  feet  to  60  feet),  it  would  be  positioned  at  the  east  side  of  Hilton  Street  so  buses 
could  use  the  Hilton  Street  right-of-way  to  access  the  bus  stop.  In  addition,  the  provision  of  the 
proposed  right-turn  lane  at  the  approach  to  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  make  it  easier  for  buses  to 
turn  right  to  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard,  since  the  buses  would  not  be  required  to  merge  back 
into  the  regular  travel  lane. 

Parking  Impacts 

The  proposed  project  would  be  required  to  provide  503  off-street  parking  spaces  per  the  San  Francisco 
Planning  Code.  In  addition,  the  proposed  project  would  have  a  maximum  parking  demand  (for  both 
customers  and  employees)  of  502  spaces  during  the  weekday  midday  peak  period  and  539  spaces 
during  the  weekend  midday  peak  period.  Since  the  proposed  project  would  include  539  parking  spaces, 
it  would  meet  the  Planning  Code  requirements  and  meet  the  anticipated  parking  demand. 

Since  there  are  currently  driveways  to  the  project  site  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Loomis  Street, 
the  proposed  project  would  not  result  in  the  elimination  of  any  on-street  parking  spaces.  The 
proposed  left-turn  pocket  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  into  the  Cortland  Avenue  driveway  would  result  in 
the  inability  of  northbound  traffic  to  directly  access  about  12  parking  spaces  located  at  470  Bayshore 
Boulevard.  However,  the  proposed  U-turn  pocket  would  allow  access  to  these  spaces  to  be 
maintained.  Currently,  on-street  parking  spaces  in  the  study  area  have  an  estimated  utilization  of  50 
percent  during  the  weekday  and  weekend  midday  periods. 

Pedestrian  Impacts 

Due  to  the  nature  of  the  Home  Depot  land  use,  it  is  not  anticipated  that  many  customers  would  walk 
to  access  the  proposed  project,  although  some  employees  may  walk  to  and  from  work.  As  such,  with 
the  development  of  the  proposed  project,  the  number  of  pedestrian  trips  would  only  slightly  increase 
in  the  nearby  vicinity.  The  anticipated  increase  in  additional  pedestrians  in  the  area  could  be 
accommodated  on  the  existing  sidewalks  and  crosswalks.  As  these  facilities  currently  have  relatively 
low  pedestrian  volumes,  pedestrian  conditions  would  continue  to  remain  acceptable.  The  proposed 
project  would  not  include  any  changes  to  the  public  sidewalks  in  the  vicinity  of  the  site. 


200I.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


70 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

With  the  increased  volume  of  vehicles  entering  and  exiting  the  project  driveways,  there  would  be  the 
potential  for  conflicts  with  pedestrians  along  the  east  sidewalk  of  Bayshore  Boulevard.  However, 
with  the  relatively  low  pedestrian  volumes  along  this  sidewalk,  there  would  be  no  adverse  effect  on 
pedestrian  operations.  To  facilitate  pedestrians  crossing  the  Cortland  Avenue  entrance  to  the  project 
site,  pedestrian  signal  heads,  with  WALK/DON'T  WALK  indicators,  would  be  installed  as  part  of 
the  proposed  project.  In  addition,  per  request  by  the  DPT,  the  entrance  would  be  designed  similar  to 
a  street  instead  of  a  driveway  (i.e.,  the  driveway  would  be  located  at  street-level,  instead  of  ramping 
up  to  curb/sidewalk  level). 

There  would  also  be  an  increased  potential  for  conflicts  for  pedestrians  crossing  Bayshore  Boulevard 
at  Cortland  Avenue.  Pedestrians  crossing  Bayshore  Boulevard  at  the  Cortland  Avenue  crosswalks 
currently  have  20  to  25  seconds  to  cross  the  street.  In  addition,  the  intersection  allows  for  a 
pedestrian  phase  of  about  30  seconds  when  the  pedestrian  cross  button  is  pushed.  Since  Bayshore 
Boulevard  is  about  100  feet  wide  at  this  location,  the  available  crossing  time  is  usually  sufficient  for 
pedestrians  to  cross  the  street  (assuming  an  average  walking  speed  of  4  feet/second).  However,  if  a 
pedestrian  starts  to  cross  late  in  the  cycle,  there  may  not  be  sufficient  time  to  complete  the  crossing. 
The  existing  intersection  configuration  provides  a  small  island  in  the  center  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  at 
the  north  side  crosswalk  which  can  be  used  by  pedestrians  who  do  not  complete  the  crossing  within 
the  allotted  signal  time.  With  the  proposed  project,  this  island  would  be  removed,  which  would 
eliminate  the  pedestrian  refuge  area.  In  addition,  the  proposed  project  would  result  in  a  substantial 
number  of  vehicles  turning  right  and  left  from  the  project  driveway  (the  proposed  project  would  not 
increase  the  number  of  vehicles  turning  right  and  left  from  eastbound  Cortland  Avenue).  As  a  result, 
without  improvements,  pedestrians  may  have  difficulty  crossing  Bayshore  Boulevard,  especially 
during  the  peak  activity  times  of  the  proposed  project. 

However,  with  the  new  signal  plan  for  this  intersection,  sufficient  green  time  would  be  given  to 
accommodate  pedestrian  crossings.  Since  the  Cortland  Avenue  approach  and  the  proposed  project 
garage  exit  approach  would  have  separate  phases,  the  amount  of  crossing  time  would  increase  (e.g., 
about  43  seconds  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  61  seconds  during  the  Saturday  midday 
peak  hour).  The  proposed  project  would  install  new  pedestrian  signals  with  countdown  indicators 
(WALK/DON'T  WALK  indicators  which  present  the  time  remaining  to  cross  the  street)  at  all  four 
crosswalks. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


71 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

To  further  improve  pedestrian  operations,  it  may  be  possible  to  construct  sidewalk  bulbs  at  several 
corners  of  the  intersection.  These  bulbs  enhance  pedestrian  visibility,  decrease  the  amount  of  time  it 
takes  to  cross  the  street,  and  slow  turning  vehicles.  The  location  of  these  bulbs  would  need  to  be 
coordinated  with  the  Planning  Department,  DPT  and  Muni  (to  ensure  that  buses  could  continue  to 
make  turns  and  that  bus  stops  would  not  be  blocked). 

Bicycle  Impacts 

Per  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Code,  the  proposed  project  would  be  required  to  provide  26  bicycle 
parking  spaces.  Since  the  proposed  project  would  provide  28  bicycle  spaces,  it  would  meet  the 
Planning  Code  requirements.  These  bicycle  parking  spaces  would  be  provided  within  the  parking 
garage.  In  addition,  the  Planning  Code  would  require  the  proposed  project  to  provide  four  showers 
and  eight  clothes  lockers  for  employees,  which  the  proposed  project  would  provide  within  the  store. 

In  general,  due  to  the  nature  of  the  Home  Depot  land  use,  it  is  not  anticipated  that  many  customers 
would  ride  bicycles  to  access  the  proposed  project,  although  some  employees  may  use  bicycles. 
With  the  current  traffic  levels  on  the  adjacent  streets,  bicycle  travel  generally  occurs  without  major 
impedance  or  safety  problems.  As  the  number  of  vehicles  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  increase 
with  the  proposed  project,  the  potential  for  conflicts  between  motorists  and  bicycles  may  increase,  as 
there  would  be  more  competition  for  the  travel  lanes  between  bicycles,  autos  and  trucks.  This  would 
not,  however,  adversely  affect  bicycle  conditions. 

Loading  Impacts 

Based  on  information  from  a  similar  Home  Depot  store,  it  was  estimated  that  the  proposed  project 
would  generate  30  daily  delivery  trips  per  day  (approximately  15  semi  tractor-trailers  and  15  small 
trucks/vans).  The  project  sponsor  has  estimated  that  there  would  be  a  peak  demand  for  four  loading 
docks  (two  long-term  and  two  short-term)  at  the  proposed  project.  The  San  Francisco  Planning  Code 
requires  that  the  proposed  project  provide  four  off-street  loading  spaces.  The  proposed  project  would 
provide  four  loading  docks  at  the  northeast  corner  of  the  site,  plus  a  separate  customer  loading  area. 
As  such,  the  proposed  supply  of  four  loading  docks  would  meet  the  anticipated  demand  and  Planning 
Code  requirements. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshorc/1 96  Loomis  Street 


72 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

It  is  anticipated  that  most  delivery  vehicles  would  use  U.S.  101  or  1-280  and  access  the  project  site 
via  the  nearby  on-  and  off-ramps.  Direct  access  to  the  loading  docks  would  be  via  Loomis  Street. 
Delivery  vehicles  using  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard,  therefore,  would  make  a  left-turn  at  the 
intersection  of  Bayshore/Oakdale  and  a  right-turn  onto  Loomis  Street.  Delivery  vehicles  using 
northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  turn  right  at  Industrial  Street  and  left  onto  Loomis  Street. 
From  Loomis  Street,  delivery  vehicles  would  turn  into  the  site  and  then  back  into  the  loading  docks. 
To  depart  the  proposed  project,  delivery  vehicles  would  use  either  Loomis  Street  or  the  delivery 
truck  driveway  located  behind  the  garden  center  (see  Figures  2  and  3,  pages  28  and  29),  exiting 
northbound  (right-turn  only)  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Delivery  trucks  with  southbound  destinations 
could  exit  onto  Loomis  Street,  turn  left  at  Oakdale  Avenue  and  then  turn  left  onto  Bayshore 
Boulevard. 

Since  Loomis  Street  is  a  wide  street  which  serves  numerous  industrial  and  commercial  uses,  it  is 
anticipated  that  project  delivery  trucks  would  be  able  to  enter  and  exit  the  proposed  loading  dock 
area  to/from  Loomis  Street  and  maneuver  without  adverse  constraints  or  impacts  to  local  vehicular 
circulation. 

Customer  Pick-Ups:  A  designated  customer  pick-up  location  would  be  established  on  the  ground 
floor  of  the  parking  garage,  adjacent  to  the  main  entrance  of  the  store.  Customers  parking  throughout 
the  parking  garage  could  drive  their  vehicles  to  the  pick-up  area  and  load  their  items  directly  into 
their  vehicles.  From  the  pick-up  area,  customers  could  drive  straight  and  exit  the  site  via  a  right-turn 
only  driveway  to  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard,  or  circle  through  the  parking  garage  and  exit  at 
the  main  Cortland  Avenue  driveway.  In  addition,  the  second  level  of  the  garage  would  have  a 
connection  to  the  mezzanine  level  of  the  Home  Depot  store.  Adjacent  to  the  vestibules  and  elevators, 
a  secondary  customer  pick-up  area  would  be  provided  on  the  second  level.  No  direct  access  would 
be  provided  between  the  rooftop  parking  and  the  store. 

Construction  Impacts 

Construction  of  the  proposed  project  is  expected  to  take  approximately  16  months,  to  start  in  2003 
and  be  completed  by  the  middle  of  2005.  Detailed  plans  for  construction  activities  have  not  yet  been 
finalized;  however,  there  would  be  four  primary  construction  phases.  Phase  1  would  entail 
environmental  remediation  and  the  demolition  of  existing  structures  on  the  site,  Phase  2  would 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


73 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

include  site  work  and  foundations,  Phase  3  would  involve  building  construction  and  any  necessary 
off-site  construction  (such  as  intersection  or  roadway  improvements),  and  Phase  4  would  consist  of 
interior  and  exterior  building  finish  and  landscaping.  Construction-related  activities  would  typically 
occur  Monday  through  Friday  from  6:00  a.m.  to  5:00  p.m.  It  is  anticipated  that  activities  may  occur 
on  weekends  or  extended  hours  on  weekdays,  if  necessary. 

Construction  staging  would  occur  primarily  within  the  site.  Truck  loading  and  unloading  activities 
would  occur  within  the  site  and  on  Loomis  Street,  and  would  have  minimal  impact  on  the  adjacent 
streets.  Staging  off  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  be  minimal,  only  to  occur  on  an  as-needed  basis.  It 
is  not  anticipated  that  any  traffic  lanes,  parking  lanes,  or  sidewalks  would  need  to  be  closed  during 
the  construction  duration,  except  during  demolition  of  existing  structures,  construction  of  the 
driveways  to  the  proposed  project,  and  construction  of  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  improvements. 
When  the  driveways  would  be  under  construction,  pedestrians  would  need  to  be  routed  to  the  west 
side  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  or  to  a  temporary  sidewalk  within  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  right-of-way 
(which  would  require  the  temporary  closure  of  the  adjacent  parking  lane). 

If  it  is  determined  that  temporary  traffic  lane  closures  would  be  needed,  the  closures  would  be 
coordinated  with  the  City  in  order  to  minimize  the  impacts  on  local  traffic.  In  general,  lane  and 
sidewalk  closures  are  subject  to  review  and  approval  by  the  Department  of  Public  Works  (DPW)  and 
the  Interdepartmental  Staff  Committee  on  Traffic  and  Transportation  (ISCOTT).  It  is  anticipated  that 
the  Muni  bus  stop  located  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  directly  in  front  of  the  vacant  Goodman  Lumber 
building  may  need  to  be  temporarily  relocated  during  some  construction  phases  of  the  proposed 
project.  During  these  times,  if  it  is  determined  that  a  temporary  Muni  bus  stop  relocation  would  be 
needed,  it  would  be  coordinated  with  the  Muni  Street  Operations/Special  Events  office.  The  project 
sponsor  would  work  with  Muni  and  the  appropriate  City  staff  to  determine  the  best  location  and  the 
time  duration  of  any  bus  stop  relocation. 

During  the  construction  period,  there  would  be  a  flow  of  construction-related  trucks  into  and  out  of 
the  site.  The  impact  of  construction  traffic  would  vary  as  the  stages  of  the  proposed  project 
construction  are  completed.  The  impacts  of  construction  truck  traffic  would  be  a  lessening  of  the 
capacities  of  the  local  access  streets  and  haul  routes,  due  to  slower  movements  and  larger  turning 
radii  of  the  trucks,  which  may  temporarily  affect  local  traffic  and  transit  operations.  Most 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


74 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

construction  traffic  would  not  occur  during  the  peak  traffic  periods  and  construction  traffic  would  not 
be  significant. 

It  is  anticipated  that  a  majority  of  the  construction-related  truck  traffic  would  use  U.S.  101,  1-280  or 
Bayshore  Boulevard  to  access  the  project  site.  From  northbound  U.S.  101,  trucks  would  likely  use 
the  off-ramps  to  Alemany  Boulevard,  and  to  access  northbound  U.S.  101,  trucks  would  likely  use  the 
on-ramp  from  Alemany  Boulevard  or  Cesar  Chavez  Street.  From  southbound  U.S.  101,  trucks  would 
likely  use  the  off-ramp  to  Cesar  Chavez  Street/Bay  shore  Boulevard,  and  to  access  southbound  U.S. 
101,  trucks  would  likely  use  the  on-ramps  at  Alemany  Boulevard. 

During  the  peak  construction  period,  there  are  estimated  to  be  30  to  40  workers  per  day  at  the  site. 
Trip  distribution  and  mode  split  data  are  not  available  for  the  construction  workers.  However,  the 
addition  of  worker-related  vehicles  or  transit  trips  would  not  adversely  affect  the  transportation 
network.  Construction-worker  parking  would  be  provided  within  the  project  site  and  nearby  on- 
street  parking. 

2015  Cumulative  Conditions 

Cumulative  traffic  growth  would  occur  from  other  developments  in  the  area,  as  well  as  from  the 
proposed  project.10  For  the  development  of  future  2015  Cumulative  traffic  volumes,  a  growth  rate  of 
1.0  percent  per  year  was  used  including  project  traffic  (per  direction  of  the  San  Francisco  Planning 
Department),  plus  adjustments  to  the  growth  at  specific  movements  in  the  study  intersections  to 
account  for  greater  potential  cumulative  growth.  The  growth  rate  was  based  on  the  Planning 
Department's  experience  with  traffic  volumes  throughout  the  City  and  is  consistent  with  historic 
traffic  volume  counts  along  Bayshore  Boulevard.  These  future  traffic  volumes  were  used  to  forecast 
the  levels  of  service  at  the  freeway  on-ramps  and  study  intersections  under  2015  Cumulative 
conditions. 


It  should  be  noted  that  when  the  existing  traffic  counts  were  conducted  for  this  project,  the 
nearby  OfficeMax  store  at  625  Bayshore  Boulevard  was  in  business.  At  the  time  the  analysis  for  this  report 
was  conducted,  the  Planning  Department  had  not  received  any  project  information  or  future  development 
plans  for  any  sites  along  Bayshore  Boulevard,  including  the  OfficeMax  site. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


75 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 


It  is  anticipated  that  this  growth  rate  would  account  for  the  possible  future  diversion  of  truck  traffic 
from  Third  Street  to  Bayshore  Boulevard  as  anticipated  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Community 
Revitalization  Concept  Plan.u  As  part  of  the  plan,  a  new  truck  route  plan  was  developed  to  reduce 
the  effect  of  truck  traffic  on  Third  Street,  in  conjunction  with  the  upcoming  Muni  Third  Street  light 
rail  and  the  revitalization  of  the  main  residential/commercial  district.  Currently,  trucks  use  Third 
Street  to  travel  between  U.S.  101  and  downtown  San  Francisco,  and  to  access  the 
industrial/commercial  establishments  in  Hunters  Point  and  along  Third  Street.  In  general,  the  new 
truck  route  plan  calls  for  restricting  trucks  of  over  11,000  pounds  from  Third  Street  and  establishing 
a  new  north-south  truck  route  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Fitch  Street  (including  a  new  bridge 
over  Yosemite  Slough),  and  a  new  east-west  truck  route  along  Cesar  Chavez  Boulevard,  Evans 
Avenue  and  Carroll/Underwood  Avenues.  The  proposed  project  is  in  the  San  Francisco 
Redevelopment  Agency's  South  Bayshore  Survey  Area.  The  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Community 
Revitalization  Concept  Plan  is  an  advisory  plan  for  the  Redevelopment  Agency. 

As  part  of  the  environmental  assessment  of  the  Muni  Third  Street  light  rail  project,  information 
regarding  truck  activity  on  Third  Street  was  obtained.13  During  the  weekday  AM  peak  hour,  there 
were  about  1,700  vehicles  on  Third  Street,  of  which  11  percent  were  trucks  (a  total  of  about  190 
trucks),  and  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  there  were  about  1,750  vehicles  on  Third  Street,  of 
which  five  percent  were  trucks  (a  total  of  about  80  trucks).  A  license  plate  survey  was  conducted  to 
determine  the  amount  of  through  traffic  that  travels  on  Third  Street  between  Gilman  and  Evans 
Streets  (i.e.,  traffic  that  travels  through  the  main  residential/commercial  district).  From  this  survey,  it 
was  estimated  that  ten  percent  of  all  commercial  vehicles  were  through  trips  during  the  AM  peak 
period  and  eight  percent  of  all  commercial  vehicles  were  through  trips  during  the  PM  peak  period.  In 
other  words,  almost  90  percent  of  all  commercial  vehicles  on  Third  Street  were  determined  to  have  a 
local  origin  or  destination. 


San  Francisco  Redevelopment  Agency  Planning  Division,  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Community 
Revitalization  Concept  Plan  -  Pinal  Draft,  November  2000. 

1 2  Third  Street  Light  Rail  Project  EIS/EIR,  1 999. 

13  All  truck  percentages  and  hourly  traffic  volumes  on  Third  Street  at  Palou  Avenue,  from  1996  and 
1997  counts. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


76 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

Although  the  goal  of  the  new  truck  route  plan  is  to  reduce  the  number  of  trucks  using  Third  Street,  it 
would  not  be  feasible  for  trucks  that  are  destined  to  and  from  specific  locations  on  Third  Street  to 
relocate  to  one  of  these  new  truck  routes.  As  a  result,  it  is  anticipated  that  the  implementation  of  the 
truck  route  plan  would  result  in  only  a  minor  increase  in  truck  volumes  along  Bayshore  Boulevard 
(up  to  20  trucks  during  the  weekday  AM  peak  hour  and  10  trucks  during  the  weekday  PM  peak 
hour).  These  increases  are  within  the  growth  in  traffic  volumes  estimated  for  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

Freeway  On-Ramps:  The  anticipated  increase  in  traffic  volumes  along  U.S.  101,  1-280  and  the 
study  on-ramps  in  2015  would  add  to  the  existing  congestion  on  the  regional  freeway  system  and 
cause  breakdown  in  operations  at  locations  where  excess  capacity  currently  exists.  The  addition  of 
the  traffic  generated  by  the  proposed  project  to  the  freeway  on-ramps  would  contribute  to  the  levels 
of  congestion. 

Table  4  on  page  78  presents  the  2015  Cumulative  freeway  on-ramp  levels  (based  on  the  one  percent 
growth  rate  plus  adjustments14)  for  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hour 
conditions.  Under  the  2015  Cumulative  conditions,  all  five  of  the  study  freeway  on-ramps  would 
operate  at  LOS  F  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  two  of  the  on-ramps  would  operate  at  LOS 
F  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  Two  of  the  study  on-ramps  operate  at  LOS  F  under 
existing  conditions:  the  westbound  1-280  on-ramp  from  Alemany  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour 
and  the  northbound  U.S.  101  on-ramp  from  Bayshore/Cesar  Chavez  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak 
hour.  At  LOS  F,  there  would  be  frequent  breakdown  of  the  traffic  flow  at  the  freeway-ramp  junction, 
resulting  in  low  speeds  on  the  freeway  and  the  formation  of  queues  along  the  ramps.  The  poor 
operating  conditions  at  these  on-ramp  locations  would  be  a  result  of  high  freeway  mainline  and  ramp 
volumes. 

Intersections:  As  shown  in  Table  5  on  page  78,  under  the  2015  Cumulative  conditions  (including 
the  project)  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  all  study 
intersections  would  operate  acceptably  (LOS  D  or  better),  except  the  intersection  of 
Mission/Cortland,  which  would  operate  at  LOS  F. 


Adjustments  that  account  for  anticipated  growth  in  certain  areas  that  could  contribute  more  than 
one  percent  trip  generation  at  certain  intersections. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


77 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 


Table  4 

Freeway  On-Ramp  Levels  of  Service  with  Pro 
2015  Cumulative  Conditions  -  Weekday  PM  and  Saturday  IV 

ject 

[idday  Peak  Hours 

On-Ramp  Location 

Weekday  PM 
LOS  Density 

Saturday  Midday 
LOS  Density 

A.  U.S.  101  NB  @  Alemany/Industrial 

B.  U.S.  101  NB  @  Bayshore/Cesar  Chavez 

C.  U.S.  101  SB  @  Alemany/Industrial 

D.  U.S.  101  SB  @  San  Bruno 

E.  1-280  WB  @  Alemany 

F  * 
F  * 
F  * 
F  * 
F  * 

C  24 
p  * 

F  * 
C  20 
B  18 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates  -  September  2001/March  2002 
Notes: 

Density  presented  in  passenger  cars  per  minute  per  lane  (pcpmpl). 
*  Unstable  flow  -  density  cannot  be  calculated. 


Table  5 

Intersection  Levels  of  Service  with  Project 
2015  Cumulative  Conditions  -  Weekday  PM  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours 

Intersection 

Weekday  PM 

Saturday  Midday 

Delay1 

LOS 

Delay1  LOS 

Signalized  Intersections 

1.  Bayshore/Jerrold/USlOl  NB  off 

34.4 

D 

35.0 

D  \ 

2.  Bayshore/Oakdale 

33.9 

D 

22.6 

C 

3.  Bayshore/Cortland 

36.0 

D 

39.7 

D 

4.  Bayshore/Industrial 

37.5 

D 

24.4 

C 

5.  Bayshore/Silver 

38.7 

D 

12.4 

B  ' 

6.  Alemany/Putnam/USlOl  SB  off 

16.8 

C 

25.5 

D 

7.  Alemany/San  Bruno/US  101  SB  on 

26.1 

D 

29.7 

D 

8.  Alemany/Cut-Thru/SlOl  NB  off 

5.3 

B 

4.7 

A  ! 

9.  Industrial/Cut-Thru 

5.7 

B 

4.8 

A 

10.  Mission/Cortland 

>60 

F 

>60 

F 

STOP-Controlled  Intersections 

1 1 .  Cortland/Andover2 

16.5 

C 

23.1 

D 

12.  Cortland/Folsom 

9.8 

B 

9.8 

B 

13.  Oakdale/Loomis3 

26.7 

D 

11.4 

C 

14.  Industrial/Loomis4 

14.0 

C 

7.6 

B  ! 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates  -  March  2002 
Notes: 

'  Delay  presented  in  seconds  per  vehicle 

2  Delay  and  LOS  presented  for  worst  STOP-controlled  approach 

3  Delay  and  LOS  presented  for  northbound  approach 

4  Delay  and  LOS  presented  for  southbound  approach 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshorc/1 96  Loomis  Street 


78 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 

Contribution  to  Future  Conditions:  As  a  means  to  assess  the  effect  of  project-generated  traffic  on 
2015  Cumulative  conditions,  the  proposed  project's  percent  contribution  to  the  2015  Cumulative 
traffic  volumes  was  determined.  Two  different  percent  contributions  were  calculated:  the  project- 
generated  traffic  as  a  percent  of  the  total  2015  Cumulative  traffic  volumes,  and  the  project-generated 
traffic  as  a  percent  of  only  the  increase  in  traffic  volumes  between  Existing  and  2015  Cumulative 
conditions.  The  results  are  shown  in  Table  6  on  page  80.  Although  both  calculations  present  the 
project's  contribution  to  traffic  volumes,  only  the  increase  in  traffic  volumes  between  Existing  and 
2015  Cumulative  conditions  is  used  to  determine  the  significance  of  the  project's  impacts. 

As  shown  in  Table  6,  the  proposed  project  would  contribute  to  the  growth  in  traffic  volumes  between 
Existing  and  2015  Cumulative  conditions.  At  the  study  freeway  on-ramps,  the  proposed  project 
would  contribute  between  9  and  62  percent  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  between  1 5  and 
59  percent  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  At  the  study  intersections,  the  proposed  project 
would  contribute  between  1 8  and  6 1  percent  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  between  25  and 
75  percent  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  The  greatest  contribution  would  be  at  the 
intersections  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  especially  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland 
(through  which  almost  all  project- related  traffic  would  travel).  The  proposed  project's  contribution 
would  be  higher  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  than  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  as  a  result  of 
lower  existing  traffic  volumes  and  an  anticipated  smaller  growth  in  background  traffic  volumes. 

The  proposed  project  would  have  a  significant  contribution  to  the  poor  operating  conditions  (LOS  F) 
at  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland  during  both  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  (23.5  percent  of 
growth)  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (30.9  percent  of  growth).  It  would  be  possible  to  mitigate 
the  2015  cumulative  impacts  at  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland  by  establishing  a  protected  left- 
turn  phase  (in  conjunction  with  the  existing  left  turns).  With  this  mitigation,  the  intersection  would 
operate  at  LOS  C  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  LOS  D  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak 
hour.  As  a  result,  the  proposed  project's  significant  contribution  to  the  poor  operating  conditions  at 
this  location  would  be  considered  a  significant,  but  mitigable  impact. 

The  proposed  project  would  have  a  significant  contribution  to  the  poor  operating  conditions  at  all 
study  freeway  on-ramp  locations  that  would  operate  at  LOS  F  under  2015  Cumulative  conditions, 
since  the  proposed  project  would  contribute  more  than  five  percent  to  the  increase  in  freeway  on- 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


79 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 


£ 
a 

*© 

> 

03 
1* 

H 

o 

a 

o 

VO  *3 
3 


H 


c 

o 
U 


o 
a. 


S 

o 

Ah 

>-> 

T3 


>> 
03 
T3 
>- 
3 

« 

CO 

•a 

3 

03 


03 
o 


T3 
3 

a,  ^ 

O  a> 

"3 
E 

3 

u 


o 


o  £ 

x?  © 
£->  >- 

a 


vo  O 


£  E 

©  3 

CN  (J 


o  £ 

o 


©  « 


£  E 

©  3 


ox 

x° 
ox 

X= 
Ox 

r- 

ON 

on 

vo 

od 

© 

<N 

in 

■xt- 

X° 
Ox 

x= 
ox 

X? 

ox 
ON 

ox 

00 

On 

co 

CN 

(N 

CN 

on 

in 

ON 

CO 

CO 

VO 

— j 

co 

CN 

oo 

r- 

On 

ON 

(N 

o 

CN 

CN 

m 

CN 

CN 

i 

in 

<N 

CN 

T-H 

N° 

ox 

x° 

ox 

sP 
ox 

o 

r-; 

VO 

CN 

© 

od 

VO 

CN 

VO 

cn 

x° 

ox 

x° 
ox 

N° 
0X 

vo 

CN 

in 

VO 

© 


t-~  o 


«  co  cn 


co  on  r~-  ■"tf-  r- 
^       io  — i  m 


CN 


co  io  ^  vo 

CO  -rt-  00  On  o 
t^-     „  rx)  ,— <  .. 


CN 


-d  U  -o 

•9  S  1  o 

S  o  c  ?  p 

™  c-1  £Tl 

|  <  PQ  <  £  3 

1  <§>©<§)<§)<§) 

Q    ffl  ffl  CQ  pQ 

Z  iZ  w  w  ^ 

O  ©  O  O  o 

*- 1  1—1  1—1  **~ 1  oo 

00  00  CO  GO  CN 

p  p  D  p 


^  \=  ^ 

cx   ox  ox 

On  ^  ir; 

n  \r 

CN    lO  t — 


Nr  n; 
>n  cn 

CO  On 


n; 
vq 

CN 


ON  CN 

VO  CO  vo 

©^  m  vo_ 

Xt""  co"  co" 


© 

CO    00  j—t 

©  o 
— i   CO  - 


vo 

VO 


©__ 


oo 

ON 

<J~l 

© 

CO 

'  -J 

oo 

in 

ON 

vo 

On 

CN 

vo 

VO 

CO 

o 

vo 

r-^ 

CN 

co" 

CN 

CN 

m 

CN 

CN 

CN 

CN  VO 


\0  x,—     %w  \0  \0 

(jN  ^     0s  0s*  0s 

On  co  co  co 

©  od  >ri  ON  CO 

M  in  (N  ^ 


Ox 

ox 

N° 

ox 

•n° 
ox 

ox 

ox 

CN 

Ox 
ON 

oo 

oo 

co 

o 

CO 

CN 

<n 

© 

©  ON 


ON  CO 


^  vo  — i  r- 

in  ^  ©  r— <  in 

CN  ©^  ON  -5t 

cn  — r  r-T  ^-T  rn" 


^    h   ON   N  O 

co  'st-  tn  ^  in 


>n 

oo 

>n 

© 

ON 

© 

CN 

CO 

© 

CN 

co^ 

©^ 

©^ 

©^ 

co 

00^ 

CO" 

CN 

CN 

co" 

CN 

CO" 

CN 

in  oo 
oo 


^  © 


V  V  N? 

Ox  ox  QX 

^  ^ 

CN  VO  © 

CN  CO  VO 


n°  so  ^ 
ON  — i  . 

cn  in  ^2 


\V  \0  sO  \0 

qn     q\  qS.  qn  0s"  O 

<-<    r~;  ON  OO  ^-1  rf 

6  ^  d  ci  K  h 

m  co  co  co  co  m 


\W      \W  \l— '  \W  \U 

q\  qN  q\  q\ 

©  vq  — <  — <  in  r~; 

on  rf'  -^r  vd  vo  vd 


\0  \0  \0  \0  ssO 

in  on  in  co 

co  vd  cn  od  vo 

(N  fl  't  ' — i  CN 


N?  N° 

ox  ox 
©  CN 


Nr 
in 


rf  OO  2  ^ 


ox  ox 
©  ON 


00 

© 

On 

CO 

CO 

m 

CO 

© 

© 

On 

© 

CN 

CN 

CN 

xt 

CN 

in 

CN 

xf 

© 

© 

© 

in 

ON 

CN 

in 

© 

© 

CN 

in 

On 

CO 

xT 

CN 

CN 

©^ 

ON 

ON 

co" 

^" 

xf 

in" 

co" 

co 

CN 

CN 

CN 

cn" 

co  r~-  in 
o  o  r- 

> — i   CN  VO 


cn  in  •— i  oo  ©  ■— i 
vo  vo  vo  in  vo 

<-<     ^     ^  '-H 


on  on  ~  in  on 


©  oo 


r- 

oo 

vo 

VO 

vo 

CO 

CO 

00 

00 

r~ 

00 

VO 

vo 

m 

CN 

oo 

CO 

o 

xt 

ON 

00 

oo 

© 

©^ 

xt 

°\ 

CN 

©^ 

xt 

CN 

00 

© 

00 

co" 

co" 

CN 

xf 

co" 

co 

CN 

CN 

CO  VD 
xt  CN 


on  r- 


c 

a 

V, 
o 
U 


> 
O 

-a 
c 

< 


c  o 
o  o 
9  -) 


C3  cd 
CP  CQ  CQ 


S    3    C  - 
.2    d    as  eg 

■^t3 


00  t< 

S  U  U  O  £ 


-,  3 
as  ~& 


CN 

o 
o 

(N 

o 


< 

43 


3 

Xi 


o 

u 

o 

CO 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


80 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

TRANSPORTATION 


ramp  volumes  at  each  location.  During  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  the  traffic  generated  by  the  pro- 
posed project  would  have  a  significant  contribution  at  the  northbound  U.S.  101  on-ramp  at  Alemany 
Boulevard/Industrial  Street,  the  northbound  U.S.  101  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar  Chavez 
Street,  the  southbound  U.S.  101  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street,  the  southbound 
U.S.  101  on-ramp  at  San  Bruno  and  the  westbound  1-280  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard.  During 
the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  the  proposed  project  would  have  a  substantial  contribution  at  the 
northbound  U.S.  101  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar  Chavez  Street  and  the  southbound  U.S. 
101  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street.  These  impacts  are  unmitigable. 

C.    AIR  QUALITY 
Setting 

Applicable  Regulations 

The  Federal  Clean  Air  Act  Amendments  of  1970  established  national  ambient  air  quality  standards, 
and  individual  states  retained  the  option  to  adopt  more  stringent  standards  and  to  include  other 
pollution  species.  California  had  already  established  its  own  air  quality  standards  when  federal 
standards  were  established,  and  because  of  the  unique  meteorological  problems  in  the  state,  there  is 
considerable  diversity  between  state  and  federal  standards  currently  in  effect  in  California,  as  shown 
in  Table  7  on  page  82. 

The  Bay  Area  has  both  a  federal  and  state  air  quality  plan.  Both  plans  propose  the  imposition  of 
controls  on  stationary  sources  (factories,  power  plants,  industrial  sources,  etc.)  and  Transportation 
Control  Measures  designed  to  reduce  emissions  from  automobiles. 

The  ambient  air  quality  standards  are  intended  to  protect  public  health  and  welfare.  They  are 
designed  to  protect  those  segments  of  the  public  most  susceptible  to  respiratory  distress,  known  as 
sensitive  receptors.  The  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  (BAAQMD)  defines  sensitive 
receptors  as  facilities  where  sensitive  receptor  population  groups  (children,  the  elderly,  the  acutely 
ill,  the  chronically  ill,  and  persons  engaged  in  strenuous  work  or  exercise)  are  likely  to  be  located. 
These  land  uses  include  residences,  schools,  playgrounds,  child  care  centers,  retirement  homes, 
convalescent  homes,  hospitals  and  medical  clinics.  Healthy  adults  can  tolerate  occasional  exposure 
to  air  pollution  levels  somewhat  above  ambient  air  quality  standards  before  adverse  health  effects  are 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


81 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

AIR  QUALITY 


observed.  The  closest  sensitive  receptor  to  the  project  site  is  the  Big  City  Montessori  School  located 
at  240  Industrial  Street  at  the  northeast  corner  of  Loomis  Street,  about  300  feet  south  of  the  project 
site.  The  nearest  residential  area  is  in  Bernal  Heights  approximately  500  feet  west  of  the  project  site 
and  west  of  the  U.S.  101  Freeway. 


Table  7 

State  and  Federal  Ambient  Air  Quality  Standards 

Pollutant 

Averaging  Time 

SAAQSU 

NAAQS23 

Ozone 

1  hour 

0.09  ppm 

0.12  ppm 

Carbon  Monoxide 

1  hour 

20  ppm 

35  ppm 

(CO) 

8  hour 

9.0  ppm 

9  ppm 

Nitrogen  Dioxide 

1  hour 

0.25  ppm 

NA 

(N02) 

Annual 

NA 

0.053  ppm 

Sulfur  Dioxide 

1  hour 

0.25  ppm 

NA 

(S02) 

3  hour 

NA 

0.5  ppm 

24  hour 

0.04  ppm 

0.14  ppm 

Annual 

NA 

0.03  ppm 

Inhalable  Particulate  Matter 

24  hour 

50  ug/m3 

150  ug/m3 

(PM10) 

Annual 

20  ug/m3 

50  ug/m3  i 

Sulfates 

24  hour 

25  ug/m3 

NA  | 

Lead 

30  day 

1.5  ug/m3 

NA 

Calendar  Quarter 

NA 

1.5  ug/m3 

Hydrogen  Sulfide 

1  hour 

0.03  ppm 

NA  | 

Vinyl  Chloride 

24  hour 

0.010  ppm 

NA 

Source:  BAAQMD  Website,  http://www.baaqmd.gv/tech/am/aqstand.htm  (last  updated  12/30/96) 


Notes: 

1  SAAQS  stands  for  State  Ambient  Air  Quality  Standards  (California).  SAAQS  for  ozone,  carbon  monoxide, 

sulfur  dioxide  (1-hour  and  24-hour),  nitrogen  dioxide,  and  inhalable  particulate  matter  are  values  that  are  not 
to  be  exceeded.  All  other  state  standards  shown  are  values  not  to  be  equaled  or  exceeded. 

2  NAAQS  stands  for  National  Ambient  Air  Quality  Standards.  NAAQS,  other  than  ozone  and  those  based  on 

annual  averages,  are  not  to  be  exceeded  more  than  once  a  year.  The  ozone  standard  is  attained  when  the 
fourth  highest  eight  hour  concentration  in  a  year,  averaged  over  three  years,  is  equal  to  or  less  than  the 
standard.  For  PM|0,the  24  hour  standard  is  attained  when  99  percent  of  the  daily  concentrations,  averaged 
over  three  years,  are  equal  to  or  less  than  the  standard. 

3  ppm  =  parts  per  million  by  volume;  ug/m3  =  micrograms  per  cubic  meter;  NA  =  Not  Applicable. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


82 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

AIR  QUALITY 

Air  Quality  Pollutants 

The  BAAQMD  operates  a  regional  monitoring  network  that  measures  the  ambient  concentrations  of 
six  air  pollutants  which  are  the  primary  pollutants  that  affect  air  quality  (the  "criteria  pollutants"): 
ozone  (03),  carbon  monoxide  (CO),  fine  particulate  matter  (PM10),  lead  (Pb),  nitrogen  dioxide  (N02) 
and  sulfur  dioxide  (SO2).  Reactive  organic  gases  (ROG  also  known  as  reactive  hydrocarbons), 
nitrogen  oxides  (NOx  including  NO2),1  and  PM10  are  precursors  to  ozone. 

Toxic  air  contaminants  are  less  pervasive  in  the  urban  atmosphere  than  criteria  air  pollutants,  but  are 
linked  to  short-term  (acute)  or  long-term  (chronic  and/or  carcinogenic)  adverse  human  health  effects. 
There  are  hundreds  of  different  types  of  toxic  air  contaminants,  with  varying  degrees  of  toxicity. 
Sources  of  toxic  air  contaminants  include  industrial  processes,  commercial  operations  (e.g.  gasoline 
stations  and  dry  cleaners),  and  motor  vehicle  exhaust.  Unlike  regulations  concerning  criteria  air 
pollutants,  there  are  no  regulatory  standards  for  toxic  air  contaminants  based  on  the  mass  of 
emissions.  Instead,  emissions  of  toxic  air  contaminants  are  evaluated  based  on  the  degree  of  health 
risk  that  could  result  from  exposure  to  these  pollutants. 

Pollutants  can  be  classified  as  being  local  or  regional  pollutants.  Local  pollutants  are  relatively  inert 
in  the  atmosphere,  and  concentrations  are  primarily  determined  by  distance  from  the  source. 
Regional  pollutants  undergo  transformation  in  the  atmosphere  or  may  be  formed  in  the  atmosphere, 
so  that  concentrations  are  dependant  on  the  total  regional  emissions  and  weather  patterns  rather  than 
the  actual  location  of  the  emissions.  Carbon  monoxide  is  a  localized  pollutant  whose  major  source  is 
automobiles,  so  concentrations  of  this  gas  are  highest  near  intersections  of  major  roads.  PM|0  is  both 
a  local  and  regional  pollutant,  having  both  a  relatively  inert  component  and  a  photochemically- 
produced  component.  Particulate  levels  are  relatively  low  near  the  coast  and  increase  with  distance 
from  the  coast,  peaking  in  dry,  sheltered  valleys.  The  primary  sources  of  particulates  in  San 
Francisco  are  construction  and  demolition,  combustion  of  fuels  for  heating,  and  vehicle  travel  over 
paved  roads.    Ozone  (of  regional  rather  than  local  concern)  is  not  emitted  directly  from  air  pollutant 

1     Nitrogen  Oxides  are  a  class  of  pollutants  comprised  of  N  and  O.  Of  the  several  nitrogen  oxides, 
only  one  (N02)  is  considered  a  primary  pollutant  with  a  specific  AQ  standard.  All  nitrogen  oxides  are 
contributors  to  ozone  formation. 

2 

Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District,  BAAQMD  CEQA  Guidelines,  Assessing  the  Air 
Quality  Impacts  of  Projects  and  Plans,  December  1999. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


83 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 
air  quality 

sources,  but  is  produced  in  the  atmosphere  over  time  and  distance  through  a  complex  series  of 
photochemical  reactions  involving  reactive  organic  gases  (ROG)  and  nitrogen  oxides  (NOx),  which 
are  carried  downwind  as  the  photochemical  reactions  occur.  Thus,  ozone  impacts  are  based  on  the 
emissions  of  these  precursors.  Regional  ozone  standards  are  violated  most  often  in  the  Santa  Clara, 
Livermore  and  Diablo  Valleys,  because  local  topography  and  meteorological  conditions  favor  the 
build-up  of  ozone  precursors  there. 

Air  Quality  Conditions 

Existing  and  probable  future  levels  of  air  quality  in  the  City  can  be  generally  inferred  from  ambient 
air  quality  measurements  conducted  by  the  BAAQMD  at  its  two  San  Francisco  monitoring  stations. 
The  Potrero  Hill  station  at  10  Arkansas  Street  measures  all  criteria  pollutants,  including  regional 
pollution  levels  (ozone),  as  well  as  primary  vehicular  emission  levels  near  busy  roadways  for  CO. 
The  station  at  939  Ellis  Street  at  BAAQMD  Headquarters  measures  only  CO.  Table  8,  on  page  85, 
summarizes  four  years  of  published  data  (1998  to  2001)  from  these  monitoring  stations.  During  this 
four-year  period,  there  were  no  violations  of  the  one-hour  or  eight-hour  CO  standards  at  the 
Arkansas  Street  and  Ellis  Street  monitoring  stations.  The  state  PM)0  standard  was  exceeded  on  one 
to  13  days  each  year  during  the  four-year  period  between  1998  and  2001.  Ozone,  nitrogen  dioxide, 
and  particulate  sulfate  measurements  were  within  allowable  maximum  concentrations. 

Comparison  of  these  data  with  those  from  other  BAAQMD  monitoring  stations  indicates  that  San 
Francisco's  air  quality  is  among  the  least  degraded  of  all  developed  portions  of  the  Bay  Area.  Three 
of  San  Francisco's  four  prevailing  winds,  west,  northwest  and  west-northwest,  blow  from  the  Pacific 
Ocean,  reducing  the  potential  for  San  Francisco  to  receive  air  pollutants  from  elsewhere  in  the 
region. 

Data  from  air  quality  monitoring  in  San  Francisco  show  that  there  have  been  occasional  local 
exceedances  of  state  PM!0  standards,  largely  due  to  emissions  from  within  the  City.  The  primary 
sources  of  PMio  in  San  Francisco  are  construction  and  demolition  activities,  combustion  of  fuels  for 
heating,  and  vehicle  travel  over  paved  roads. 


200I.0062E  491  Bayshorc/1 96  Loomis  Street 


84 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

air  quality 


Table  8 

San  Francisco  Air  Pollutant  Summary,  1999-2002 

Monitoring  Data  by  Yea 

r 

Pollutant 

kJlallUal  KM 

1999 

2000 

2001 

2002 

Ozone 

Highest  1-hr  average,  ppm 

0.092 

0.08 

0.06 

0.06 

0.04 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Highest  8-hr  average,  ppm 

0.08 

0.08 

0.05 

0.05 

0.05 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

0 

o 

o 

0 

Carbon  Monoxide 

Highest  8-hr  average,  ppm 

9.02 

4.2 

3.2 

3.3 

2.6 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

0 

o 

o 

o 

1  1  111  V  (1  V  11           III  A1U  V 

l-Tiprip^t  1-hravprapp  nnm 

0.252 

0.10 

0.07 

0.07 

0.08 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

0 

0 

o 

0 

Sulfur  Dioxide 

T-fiphp^t  1  -hr  avprfiPf*  nnm 

1  llgllWOl    1     111    U  V  bl  UgVj    VJ  \-J  1  L  1 

0.052 

0.007 

0.005 

0.007 

0.006  : 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

o 

U 

U 

0 

particulate  Matter  (riviioj 

Highest  24-hr  average,  pg/m3 

502 

78 

53 

67 

74 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

6 

2 

7 

2 

Annual  Geometric  Mean,  pg/m3 

302 

22.7 

21.7 

22.9 

1  O  "7 

lo.  /  ! 

Particulate  Matter  (PM2.5) 

Highest  24-hr  average,  pg/m3 

65 

47.9 

76.6 

70 

n/a 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

0 

2 

4 

Annual  Geometric  Mean,  pg/m3 

154 

11.4 

11.5 

13.1 

Source:  California  Air  Resources  Board,  Aerometric  Data  Analysis  &  Management  (ADAM),  2003;  and  Bay  Area 
Air  Quality  Management  District,  Bay  Area  Air  Pollution  Summary,  1999-2002. 


Notes: 

ppm  =  parts  per  million;  pg/m3  =  micrograms  per  cubic  meter, 
n/a  =  Not  applicable  or  does  not  exist. 

1  All  data  were  collected  at  the  Arkansas  Street  Station. 

2  State  standard,  not  to  be  exceeded. 

3  State  standard  was  revised  downward  to  20  ug/m3  effective  July  5,  2003. 

4  State  of  California  adopted  a  more  stringent  annual  average  standard  of  12  ug/m,3  which  became  effective  July  5, 
2003.  Therefore,  there  were  no  exceedances  in  1999  and  2000. 


The  Federal  Clean  Air  Act  and  the  California  Clean  Air  Act  of  1988  require  that  the  State  Air 
Resources  Board,  based  on  air  quality  monitoring  data,  designate  portions  of  the  state  where  the 
federal  or  state  ambient  air  quality  standards  are  not  met  as  "non-attainment  areas."  Because  of  the 
differences  between  the  national  and  state  standards,  the  designation  of  nonattainment  areas  is 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


85 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

AIR  QUALITY 

different  under  the  federal  and  state  legislation.  On  the  basis  of  the  monitoring  data,  the  Bay  Area 
had  been  designated  a  "non-attainment"  area  with  respect  to  the  Federal  O3  and  CO  standards.  The 
Bay  Area  was  subsequently  re-classified  as  a  "maintenance"  area  for  CO.3  The  air  basin  is  an 
attainment  area  or  is  unclassified  for  all  other  national  ambient  air  quality  standards. 

Under  the  California  Clean  Air  Act,  the  entire  San  Francisco  Bay  Air  Basin  is  a  nonattainment  area 
for  ozone  and  PMi0.  The  air  basin  is  either  in  attainment  or  unclassified  for  other  pollutants  under 
state  standards.  In  addition,  San  Francisco  has  experienced  violations  of  the  state  PM10  standards. 

In  2000,  emissions  from  motor  vehicles  were  the  source  of  70  percent  of  the  CO,  41  percent  of  the 
HCs,  72  percent  of  the  PM|0,  89  percent  of  the  sulfur  oxides  and  53  percent  of  the  NOx  emitted  in 
San  Francisco.4 

Impacts 

Air  quality  impacts  from  land  development  projects  result  from  project  construction  and  operation. 
Construction  emissions,  primarily  dust  generated  by  earthmoving  activities  and  criteria  air  pollutants 
emitted  by  construction  vehicles,  would  have  a  short-term  effect  on  air  quality.  Operational 
emissions,  generated  by  project-related  traffic  and  by  combustion  of  natural  gas  for  building  space 
and  water  heating,  would  continue  to  affect  air  quality  throughout  the  lifetime  of  the  project. 

Significance  Criteria 

The  operation  of  a  project  would  have  a  significant  effect  on  the  environment  with  respect  to  air 
quality  if  it  would  violate  any  ambient  air  quality  standard  or  contribute  substantially  to  an  existing 
or  projected  air  quality  violation,  or  expose  sensitive  receptors  to  substantial  pollutant  concentrations. 
The  BAAQMD  specifies  the  significance  criteria  as  follows5:   (1)  the  project  impacts  would  be 

3    Re-designation  of  a  non-attainment  area  to  a  maintenance  area  involves  approval  of  a  maintenance 
plan  outlining  emission  control  programs  that  will  maintain  the  Federal  ambient  air  quality  standard  for  ten 
years  after  re-designation.  The  plan  must  describe  the  measures  that  will  be  taken  to  correct  violations  of  the 
air  quality  standards,  if  they  occur. 

4 

California  Air  Resources  Board,  2001  Estimate  Annual  Average  Emissions,  San  Francisco 
County,  2002. 

5    BAAQMD  CEQA  Guidelines,  op.  cit. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


86 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

AIR  QUALITY 

considered  significant  if  they  cause  operation-related  emissions  equal  to  or  exceeding  an  established 
threshold  of  80  pounds  per  day  of  ROG,  NOx,  or  PMio,  (ozone  precursors)  or  cause  CO 
concentrations  to  exceed  the  state  ambient  air  quality  standards  of  more  than  550  pounds  per  day  of 
emissions;  and  (2)  the  project  impacts  would  also  be  considered  to  have  a  significant  contribution  to 
cumulative  regional  air  quality  effects  if  the  project  impacts  exceed  these  standards. 

With  respect  to  toxic  pollutants,  a  project  would  be  deemed  to  have  a  significant  impact  if  the 
incremental  probability  of  contracting  cancer  for  the  Maximally  Exposed  Individual  (MEI)  exceeds 
10  in  one  million,  or  ground  level  concentrations  of  non-carcinogenic  toxic  air  contaminants  would 
result  in  a  Hazard  Index  greater  than  one  for  the  MEI. 

The  BAAQMD  is  vested  by  the  California  Legislature  with  authority  to  regulate  airborne  pollutants 
through  both  inspection  and  law  enforcement,  and  is  to  be  notified  ten  days  in  advance  of  any 
proposed  demolition  and  must  be  provided  information  on  the  amount  and  nature  of  any  hazardous 
pollutants,  nature  of  planned  work  and  methods  to  be  employed,  and  the  name  and  location  of  the 
waste  disposal  site  to  be  used.  The  purpose  of  BAAQMD  regulations  is  the  minimization  of  the 
potential  hazards  to  the  public  and  surrounding  land  uses.  The  BAAQMD  significance  threshold  for 
construction  dust  impacts  is  based  on  the  appropriateness  of  construction  dust  controls.  The 
BAAQMD  guidelines  provide  feasible  control  measures  for  construction  emissions  of  PMjo.  If  the 
appropriate  construction  controls  are  to  be  implemented,  then  air  pollutant  emissions  for  construction 
activities  would  be  considered  less-than-significant. 

Methodology 

Estimates  of  regional  emissions  generated  by  project  traffic  were  made  using  the  methodology 
recommended  by  the  BAAQMD  for  calculation  of  mobile  source  emissions.  Daily  emissions  of 
pollutants  from  project-related  traffic  in  2003  and  2015  were  estimated  using  a  program  called 
URBEMIS  2001  developed  by  the  California  Air  Resources  Board.  Inputs  to  the  URBEMIS  2001 
program  included  daily  trip  generation  rates,  vehicle  mix,  average  trip  length  by  trip  type  and  average 
speed.  Daily  and  weekend  trip  generation  rates  for  project  land  uses  were  provided  in  the  project 
transportation  analysis.  Average  trip  lengths  and  vehicle  mixes  for  the  Bay  Area  were  used. 
Average  speed  for  all  types  of  trips  was  assumed  to  be  25  miles  per  hour.    The  analysis  is 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


87 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

AIR  QUALITY 

conservative  in  that  it  assumed  a  year  2002  vehicle  mix,  whereas  in  future  years  the  vehicle  fleet  is 
expected  to  include  fewer  high-polluting  vehicles,  resulting  in  lower  levels  of  emissions. 

A  computer  program,  the  URBEMIS-7G,  developed  by  the  California  Air  Resources  Board,  was 
applied  to  project  daily  trip  generation  under  winter  conditions  (the  time  of  maximum  CO 
concentrations)  to  estimate  total  project-related  carbon  monoxide  emissions.  The  assumption  was 
made  that  all  trips  generated  by  the  project  would  be  entirely  new  (i.e.,  trips  generated  by  past  uses  of 
the  site  were  not  included). 

Toxic  air  contaminant  risks  associated  with  increased  diesel  truck  traffic  were  estimated  using  the 
EPA-approved  ISCST-3  computer  model.6  This  model  provides  estimates  of  concentrations 
considering  site  and  source  geometry,  source  strength,  distance  to  the  sensitive  receptors  and 
building  wake  effects  on  emission  plume  dispersion.  Diesel  particulate  emissions  from  trucks 
operating  within  the  proposed  project's  loading  dock  area  and  along  Loomis  Street  east  of  the  project 
site  were  estimated  and  assumed  to  be  emitted  by  a  series  of  area  sources  approximating  the 
geometry  of  the  loading  dock  area  and  travel  lanes  of  Loomis  Street.  Concentrations  were  calculated 
by  the  model  for  a  series  of  receptors  along  the  east  side  of  Loomis  Street,  seven  feet  back  from  the 
curb  and  approximately  thirty-eight  feet  apart  from  the  intersection  of  Waterloo  Street  to  about  150 
feet  north  of  the  project  site.  The  ISCST-3  model,  the  assumptions  in  its  use  and  the  methodology 
used  in  estimating  risk  are  included  in  Appendix  C. 

Construction  Impacts 

The  proposed  project  would  require  demolition  of  existing  buildings.  The  physical  demolition  of 
existing  structures  and  other  infrastructure  are  construction  activities  with  a  high  potential  for 
creating  air  pollutants.  In  addition  to  the  dust  created  during  demolition,  substantial  dust  emissions 
could  be  created  as  debris  is  loaded  into  trucks  for  disposal. 

The  air  pollutant  construction  control  measures  for  the  proposed  project  are  listed  on  pages  106  and 
107,  and  include  such  actions  as  spraying  the  project  site  with  water  during  excavation,  grading,  and 
site  preparation  activities;  covering  stockpiles  of  soil,  sand,  and  other  such  material;  covering  trucks 


U.  S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  User's  Guide  for  the  Industrial  Source  Complex  (ISC31 
Dispersion  Models.  Report  EPA-454/b-95-003a.  September  1995. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshorc/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


88 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

AIR  QUALITY 

hauling  debris,  soils,  sand  or  other  such  material;  sweeping  surrounding  streets;  and  maintaining  and 
operating  construction  equipment  so  as  to  minimize  exhaust  emissions  of  particulates  and  other 
pollutants. 

The  project  must  also  comply  with  California  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration 
(Cal/OSHA)  regulations,  standards  and  procedures  and  California  Department  of  Health  Services 
(DHS)  Lead  Work  Practice  Standards.  These  regulations  are  designed  to  minimize  worker  and 
general  public  exposure  to  hazardous  building  materials. 

The  above  regulations  and  procedures,  already  established  and  enforced  as  part  of  the  permit  review 
process,  and  mitigation  measures  proposed  as  part  of  the  project,  would  ensure  that  any  potential 
impacts  due  to  asbestos,  lead,  PMio  or  other  hazardous  materials  would  be  less  than  significant. 

Project  Operation  impacts 

Project  operation  would  affect  local  air  quality  by  increasing  the  number  of  vehicles  on  project- 
impacted  roads  and  at  the  project  site,  and  by  introducing  stationary  emissions  to  the  project  site. 
Transportation  sources,  such  as  project-generated  vehicles,  would  account  for  over  90  percent  of 
operational  project- related  emissions.  Stationary  source  emissions,  generated  by  combustion  of 
natural  gas  for  building  space  and  water  heating,  would  be  less-than-significant,  due  to  the  low 
amount  of  emissions  and  the  relative  minimal  amount  of  pollutants  in  natural  gas  combustion. 

Local  Impacts 

Project-related  traffic  may  result  in  areas  with  high  concentrations  of  carbon  monoxide  around 
stagnation  points  such  as  major  intersections  and  heavily  traveled  and  congested  highways.  The 
BAAQMD  has  identified  three  threshold  standards,  any  one  of  which  would  require  the  estimation  of 

7 

local  carbon  monoxide  concentrations  : 

•  Project  related  vehicle  CO  emissions  would  exceed  550  pounds  per  day. 

•  Project  traffic  would  impact  intersections  or  roadway  links  operating  at  Level  of  Service 
(LOS)  D,  E  or  F  or  would  cause  LOS  to  decline  to  D,  E  or  F. 


7  Ibid. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


89 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

AIR  QUALITY 

•    Project  traffic  would  increase  traffic  volumes  on  nearby  roadways  by  10  percent  or  more. 

The  resulting  calculated  emissions  of  781  pounds/day  of  carbon  monoxide  from  project-generated 
vehicles  would  exceed  the  BAAQMD  criterion  of  550  pounds/day,  and  project  traffic  would 
contribute  to  the  traffic  delays  at  intersections  currently  operating  at  or  would  cause  LOS  to  decline 
to  LOS  D,  E  or  F.  Therefore,  since  two  of  the  BAAQMD  criteria  for  modeling  were  met,  the  CO 
concentrations  at  the  four  qualifying  intersections  were  estimated  using  a  screening  form  of  the 
computer  model  developed  by  the  California  Department  of  Transportation,  CALINE-4. 

CO  concentrations  are  localized  and  strongly  dependent  on  local  traffic  volumes  and  operating 
conditions.  Table  9  on  page  91  shows  predicted  one-hour  and  eight-hour  averaged  CO 
concentrations  at  the  four  study  intersections  that  meet  the  BAAQMD  criteria  for  modeling.  The 
data  is  for  worst-case  intersections,  at  the  edge  of  the  curb  immediately  adjacent  to  traffic. 
Concentrations  at  other  locations  further  from  the  roadway  would  be  less  than  those  shown  in  Table 
9.  For  the  study  intersections,  the  estimated  CO  concentrations  with  project-generated  traffic  would 
be  below  the  applicable  state/federal  standards  (20  parts  per  million  [ppm]  for  the  1-hour  standard 
and  9  ppm  for  the  8-hour  standard),  and  would  be  a  less-than-significant  impact. 

Concentrations  in  2015  would  be  below  current  levels,  despite  increased  traffic,  due  to  gradually 
declining  emission  rates  for  vehicles  and  background  concentrations  as  older,  more  polluting  vehicles 
are  retired  and  replaced  with  lower-emitting  vehicles. 

The  proposed  parking  garage  would  be  another  area  of  increased  carbon  monoxide  due  to  slow 
vehicle  travel  and  vehicle  idling.  The  density  of  emissions  would  be  far  below  that  occurring  at 
street  intersections  near  the  project  site.  The  San  Francisco  Building  Code  sets  requirements  to 
ensure  adequate  ventilation  and  avoid  accumulation  of  pollutants  and  explosive  gasoline  vapors  and 
would  ensure  that  public  exposure  to  garage  exhausts  would  not  represent  a  significant  impact. 


2O0I.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


90 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

AIR  QUALITY 


Table  9 

Existing  and  Projected  Curbside  Carbon  Monoxide 
Concentrations  at  Selected  Intersections* 

Intersection 

Existing 
(2001) 
1-Hour  8-Hour 

Existing  +  Project 
(2001) 
1-Hour  8-Hour 

Cum.  +  Project 

(2015) 
1-Hour  8-Hour 

Bayshore/Oakdale 

8.7 

5.9 

8.9 

6.0 

6.6 

4.5 

Bayshore/Cortland 

8.3 

5.6 

8.7 

5.9 

6.5 

4.4 

Bayshore/Industrial 

8.8 

6.0 

9.2 

6.2 

6.8 

4.6 

Bayshore/Jerrold/US  101 

8.5 

5.8 

8.6 

5.8 

6.5 

4.4 

Most  Stringent  Standard 

20.0 

9.0 

20.0 

9.0 

20.0 

9.0  1 

Calculations  were  made  using  a  screening  procedure  contained  in  the  BAAQMD  CEQA 
Guidelines.  Background  concentrations  of  6.3  ppm  (1-hour)  and  4.2  ppm  (8-hour)  were  calculated 
using  1992  isopleths  of  carbon  monoxide  concentration  and  rollback  factors  for  the  year  2002 
developed  by  the  BAAQMD.  Background  concentrations  of  5.2  ppm  (1-hour)  and  3.5  ppm  (8- 
hour)  were  calculated  using  1992  isopleths  of  carbon  monoxide  concentration  and  rollback  factors 
for  the  year  2015  developed  by  the  BAAQMD.  The  one-hour  state  standard  is  20  ppm,  the  one- 
hour  federal  standard  is  35  ppm,  and  the  eight-hour  state  and  federal  standards  are  9  ppm. 
Emission  factors  were  derived  from  the  California  Air  Resources  Board  EMFAC7G  computer 
model  (Version  1.0c). 

Source:  Don  Ballanti,  Certified  Consulting  Meteorologist. 


Regional  Impacts 

Project  traffic  would  also  have  an  effect  on  air  quality  outside  the  project  vicinity.  Trips  to  and  from 
the  project  would  contribute  to  air  pollutant  emissions  over  the  entire  Bay  Area.  As  noted  above,  the 
Bay  Area  is  currently  designated  nonattainment  for  ozone  and  PM10.  The  project  associated 
emissions  for  two  of  the  major  ozone  precursors  (ROG  and  NOx)  and  for  PMio  were  evaluated  using 
the  UPvBEMIS-2001  computer  program.  The  daily  increases  in  regional  emissions  from  project 
generated  auto  travel  are  shown  in  Table  10  on  page  92.  The  proposed  project  would  exceed  the 
BAAQMD  established  threshold  of  significance  of  80  pounds  per  day  for  emissions  of  reactive 
organic  gases  (ROG)  and  would  be  considered  to  have  a  significant  adverse  environmental  effect  on 
air  quality.  This  significant  impact  would  occur  regionally  within  the  multi-county  air  basin  and 
would  not  be  reflective  of  local  conditions  in  San  Francisco. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


91 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

AIR  QUALITY 


Table  10 

Project  Regional  Emissions  in  Pounds  Per  Day* 

Reactive  Organic 
Gases  (ROG) 

Nitrogen 
Oxides  (NOx) 

Fine  Particulate 
Matter  (PM,0) 

Project  Daily  Emission 

84.5 

67.1 

36.2 

BAAQMD  Threshold 

80.0 

80.0 

80.0  ! 

Estimates  of  regional  emissions  generated  by  project  traffic  were  made  using  a  program  called 
URBEMIS  2001.  Inputs  to  the  URBEMIS  2001  program  include  trip  generation  rates,  vehicle 
mix,  average  trip  length  by  trip  type  and  average  speed.  Trip  generation  rates  for  project  land 
uses  were  provided  by  the  project  transportation  consultant.  Average  trip  lengths  and  vehicle 
mixes  for  the  Bay  Area  were  used.  Average  speed  for  all  types  of  trips  was  assumed  to  be  25 
MPH,  which  represents  a  maximum  level  of  emissions.  The  analysis  assumed  a  year  2005  vehicle 
mix  (estimate  first  year  of  project  operation).  The  URBEMIS  2001  runs  assumed  summertime 
conditions  for  ROG,  NOx  and  PM,0  when  ozone  concentrations  are  maximum. 

Source:  Don  Ballanti,  Certified  Consulting  Meteorologist. 


Toxic  Air  Contaminant  Impacts 

The  highest  calculated  cancer  risk  due  to  diesel  exhaust  particulate  was  estimated  as  0.52  in  one 
million  for  the  maximally  exposed  individual  (point  of  maximum  exposure  for  an  offsite  worker) 
along  Loomis  Street  (see  Appendix  C).  Predicted  worst-case  concentrations  were  below  the  chronic 
inhalation  Reference  Exposure  Level  (REL)  for  diesel  exhaust  particulate.  The  REL  is  the 
concentration  at  or  below  which  no  adverse  non-cancer  health  effects  are  anticipated.  Based  on 
modeling  for  what  is  believed  to  be  the  worst-case  location,  project  impacts  related  to  toxic  air 
contaminants  would  be  well  below  the  BAAQMD  thresholds  of  significance  and  would  be  less-than- 
significant. 

Cumulative  Impacts 

According  to  BAAQMD  significance  criteria,  any  proposed  project  that  would  individually  have  a 
significant  air  quality  impact  would  also  be  considered  to  have  a  significant  cumulative  air  quality 
impact.  Since  the  proposed  project  would  exceed  the  BAAQMD  thresholds  of  significance  for  ROG, 
the  project  would  have  a  significant  cumulative  impact  on  regional  air  quality. 


200I.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


92 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 

D.  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 

The  Initial  Study  concluded  that  the  proposed  project  would  not  have  significant  adverse  hazardous 
materials  impacts  (for  further  information,  see  Appendix  A,  pages  A-21  to  23).  Hazardous  materials 
information  (except  for  lead  paint  and  asbestos  hazards)  is  included  in  the  EIR  for  informational 
purposes  and  to  orient  the  reader. 

Regulatory  Framework 

Federal 

Hazardous  materials  and  hazardous  wastes  are  extensively  regulated  by  various  federal,  state, 
regional,  and  local  regulations,  with  the  primary  objective  of  protecting  public  health  and  the 
environment.  The  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (U.S.  EPA)  is  the  lead  agency  for 
enforcing  federal  regulations  that  affect  public  health  or  the  environment.  The  primary  federal  laws 
and  regulations  include  the  Resource  Conservation  and  Recovery  Act  of  1976  (RCRA)  and  the 
Hazardous  and  Solid  Waste  Amendments  enacted  in  1984;  the  Comprehensive  Environmental 
Response,  Compensation  and  Liability  Act  of  1980  (CERCLA);  and  the  Superfund  Act  and 
Reauthorization  Act  of  1986  (SARA).  Federal  regulations  pertaining  to  hazardous  materials  and 
wastes  are  contained  in  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations  (CFR),  Title  40. 

State 

California  hazardous  materials  laws  incorporate  federal  standards,  but  are  often  stricter  than  federal 
laws.  The  primary  state  laws  include  the  California  Hazardous  Waste  Control  Law  (HWCL),  the 
state  equivalent  of  RCRA,  and  the  California  Hazardous  Substance  Account  Act,  the  state  equivalent 
of  CERCLA.  State  hazardous  materials  and  waste  regulations  are  contained  in  the  California  Code 
of  Regulations  (CCR)  Titles  22  and  26.  State  underground  storage  tank  laws  and  regulations  are 
contained  in  the  CCR  Title  23. 

The  California  Department  of  Toxic  Substances  Control  (DTSC)  enforces  hazardous  materials  and 
waste  regulations  in  California,  in  conjunction  with  the  U.S.  EPA.  The  DTSC  is  responsible  for 
regulating  the  management  of  hazardous  substances  including  the  remediation  of  sites  contaminated 
by  hazardous  substances.  The  Regional  Water  Quality  Control  Board  (RWQCB)  is  authorized  by  the 
State  Water  Resources  Control  Board  to  enforce  provisions  of  the  Porter  -  Cologne  Water  Quality 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


93 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 

Control  Act  of  1969.  BAAQMD  may  also  impose  specific  requirements  on  remediation  activities  to 
protect  ambient  air  quality  from  dust  or  other  airborne  contaminants. 

Underground  Storage  Tanks 

State  laws  also  regulate  underground  storage  tanks  (USTs)  containing  hazardous  substances.  These 
laws  are  primarily  found  in  the  Health  and  Safety  Code,  and,  combined  with  CCR  Title  23,  comprise 
the  requirements  of  the  state  UST  program.  The  laws  contain  requirements  for  UST  permitting, 
construction,  installation,  leak  detection  monitoring,  repairs  and  corrective  actions  and  closures.  In 
accordance  with  state  laws,  the  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health  implements  UST 
regulations  in  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco. 

Local  Ordinances 

Two  local  ordinances  meet  or  exceed  state  and  federal  requirements  for  site  investigations  and  the 
storage  of  hazardous  substances.  These  include  San  Francisco  Municipal  Code,  Article  21  (the 
Hazardous  Materials  Ordinance),  and  San  Francisco  Municipal  Code,  Article  22  (the  Hazardous 
Waste  Ordinance).  In  addition,  the  Maher  Ordinance  is  a  San  Francisco  Regulation  which  requires 
certain  environmental  actions  for  various  sites  but  those  primarily  "Bayward  of  the  high-tide  line." 
The  site  is  not  within  the  limits  of  the  ordinance. 

Hazardous  Materials  Ordinance 

The  Hazardous  Materials  Ordinance  provides  for  safe  handling  of  hazardous  materials  in  the  City. 
Any  person  or  business  that  handles,  sells,  stores,  or  otherwise  uses  hazardous  materials  in  quantities 
exceeding  specified  thresholds  and  for  a  period  of  greater  than  30  days  is  required  by  Article  21  to 
register  the  hazardous  materials  with  the  Department  of  Public  Health. 

Hazardous  Waste  Ordinance 

The  Hazardous  Waste  Ordinance  provides  for  safe  handling  of  hazardous  wastes  in  the  City.  The 
ordinance  incorporates  the  state  requirements  for  hazardous  waste  described  in  Section  6.5 
(Hazardous  Waste  Management)  of  the  California  Health  and  Safety  Code,  as  well  as  the 
accompanying  regulations  found  in  CCR  Title  22. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


94 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 

Setting 

A  Phase  I  Environmental  Site  Assessment  (ESA)  of  the  project  site  was  conducted  by  an  independent 
consultant  (Stechmann  Geoscience,  Inc.  (SGI),  March  20,  2001).  The  Phase  I  ESA  was  conducted  to 
identify  possible  environmental  concerns  related  to  on-site  or  nearby  chemical  use,  storage,  handling, 
spillage,  and/or  on-site  disposal,  with  particular  focus  on  potential  degradation  of  soil  and 
groundwater  quality.  A  Phase  II  investigation  was  also  conducted  by  SGI  in  April  2001  to  assess 
petroleum  hydrocarbons  and  heavy  metals  in  the  soil.  A  copy  of  the  Phase  I  and  Phase  II  ESA  is 
available  for  review  as  part  of  the  project  file  at  the  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street. 

Historic  uses 

It  is  believed  that  the  land  was  developed  as  early  as  1914.  Residences  with  storage  structures,  a 
restaurant,  a  commercial  builders  supply  warehouse,  an  old  tire  storage  yard,  a  possible  auto 
wrecking  yard,  a  commercial  business  warehouse,  and  a  contractor's  yard  and  business  were  located 
on  various  portions  of  the  site  up  until  around  1975.  The  Goodman  builder  supply/lumber  warehouse 
at  445  Bayshore  was  constructed  around  1945  and  the  other  warehouse,  last  occupied  by  Whole 
Earth  Access,  at  401  Bayshore  was  constructed  around  1965.  Sanborn  Maps  indicate  that  an  old  tire 
storage  yard,  followed  by  a  possible  auto  wrecking  yard,  was  at  401  Bayshore  sometime  between 
1947  to  1965,  and  underground  storage  tanks  (USTs)  were  present  on  the  site  as  early  as  1950  until 
February  1999.  Contaminated  soils  associated  with  those  businesses  exist  on  the  project  site. 

Subsurface  conditions 

The  project  site  is  located  in  a  general  area  of  the  City  where  past  industrial  land  uses  and  debris  fill 
associated  with  the  1906  earthquake  and  bay  reclamation  often  left  hazardous  waste  residues  in  local 
soils  and  groundwater.  Based  on  a  geotechnical  investigation,  including  recent  and  previous 
exploratory  borings  and  recent  test  pits,  the  site  is  underlain  by  about  9  to  22  feet  of  uncompacted 
and  undocumented  artificial  fills  over  Bay  Mud  deposits  with  the  northwest  corner  of  the  site 
underlain  by  slope  debris  and  ravine  fill.   The  site  is  located  in  the  Islais  Basin,  a  non-beneficial  use 

1    Geotechnical  Professionals,  Inc.  [GPI],  October  18,  2001,  Revised  Geotechnical  Investigation, 
Proposed  Home  Depot,  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Waterloo,  San  Francisco,  California,  October  18,  2001 
This  report  is  available  by  appointment  for  public  review  in  Project  File  No.  2001.0062E  at  the  Planning 
Department,  1660  Mission  Street,  fifth  floor,  San  Francisco. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


95 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 

groundwater  basin.  Groundwater  was  found  at  levels  ranging  from  9  feet  to  14  feet  below  ground 
surface. 

Sources  of  Hazardous  Materials 

Hazardous  material  means  a  substance  or  combination  of  substances,  which  because  of  its  quantity, 
concentration  or  physical,  chemical  or  infectious  characteristics,  may  pose  a  substantial  present  or 
potential  hazard  to  human  health  or  environment  when  improperly  treated,  stored,  transported  or 
disposed  of  or  otherwise  managed.  The  proposed  project  site  contains  potential  sources  of 
hazardous  materials  associated  with  former  activities  on  the  site  or  construction  materials  used  in  the 
existing  buildings.  These  sources  could  include  former  or  existing  underground  storage  tanks 
(USTs),  soil  contamination  originating  from  underlying  fill  materials,  asbestos  or  other  building 
materials  such  as  lead  and  PCBs.  Lead  and  asbestos  were  discussed  in  the  Initial  Study  (Appendix 
A).  Regulations  and  procedures  by  the  San  Francisco  Building  Code  would  ensure  that  potential 
impacts  of  demolition  due  to  lead-based  paint  would  be  less  than  significant.  Various  city  and  state 
regulations  and  procedures,  already  established  as  a  part  of  the  permit  review  process  for  the  project, 
would  insure  that  any  potential  impacts  due  to  asbestos  would  be  less  than  significant.  Thus,  the 
presence  of  asbestos  and  lead  paint  on  the  project  site  would  not  be  considered  potentially  significant 
impacts. 

Potentially  hazardous  levels  of  total  and/or  soluble  lead  have  been  found  in  soils  as  a  result  of  soil 
testing  at  other  sites  in  the  project  area.  The  DPH  Environmental  Health-Hazardous  Waste  Unit 
(EHS-HWU)  considers  soils  with  a  total  lead  concentration  of  over  750  parts  per  million  (ppm)  to  be 
potentially  hazardous. 

The  Phase  I  investigation  examined  the  history  of  use  on  the  project  site  and  in  the  area  for  potential 
sources  of  hazardous  substances  as  a  result  of  activities  on  and  off  the  site  that  may  have  involved 
handling,  storage,  or  disposal  of  hazardous  substances  that  would  affect  the  quality  of  soils  or 
groundwater.  The  Phase  I  ESA  found  several  addresses  near  the  project  site  that  were  on  the  local, 


2    Harte,  1991. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


96 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 

state  and  federal  databases  of  identified  sites  of  hazardous  materials.  There  are  a  total  of  78  cases 
with  possible  releases  of  chemicals  of  environmental  concerns  that  were  identified  within  the  area  of 
the  search  (ranging  up  to  a  one-mile  radius  of  the  project  site).  Not  all  78  cases  are  considered  to 
have  impacted  the  site  because  of  their  distance  (approximately  one-eighth  mile  or  greater)  from  the 
site,  and/or  their  relative  location  down-gradient/cross-gradient  from  the  site,  or  that  the  sites  have 
been  identified  in  the  various  data  bases  as  requiring  no  further  action  (NFA),  dropped  from  the  list, 
or  have  no  listing  of  violations. 

Underground  Storage  Tanks 

Records  indicate  that  a  550-gallon  gasoline  underground  storage  tank  (UST)  on  the  project  site  was 
removed  in  May  of  1990  under  the  requirement  of  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health,  the 
Local  Oversight  Program  (DPH-LOP)  and  the  Department  of  Fire  Prevention.  Two  4,000-gallon 
USTs  were  also  removed  from  the  site  in  February  of  1999  under  the  requirements  of  DPH-LOP  and 
the  BAAQMD. 

Soil  results  from  the  removal  of  the  550-gallon  gasoline  UST  found  total  petroleum  hydrocarbons  as 
gasoline  (TPH-G),  benzene,  toluene,  ethylbenzene  and  xylenes  (BTEX).  Soil  samples  collected  from 
the  bottom  of  the  excavation  for  the  two  former  4,000-gallon  USTs  found  TPH-G,  BTEX,  methyl- 
tert-butyl-ether  (MTBE)  and  total  lead  (Pb).  Groundwater  samples  associated  with  the  USTs  were 
also  taken  and  revealed  TPH-G,  BTEX,  and  MTBE.  The  DPH-LOP  requested  a  work  plan 
addressing  the  groundwater  contamination,  specifically  requesting  at  least  one  groundwater- 
monitoring  well  to  be  installed  within  10  feet  of  the  former  excavation  of  the  two  4,000-gallon  USTs 
and  quarterly  monitoring  of  the  well  for  a  period  of  one  year.  According  to  the  DPH-LOP,  the 
monitoring  sets  of  results  (for  this  one-year  period)  for  the  groundwater  sample  from  the  monitoring 
well  were  negative  (there  were  no  elevated  concentrations  of  contaminants).  A  Remedial  Action 
Completion  Certification  was  issued  by  the  DPH-LOP  on  January  23,  2002,  and  no  further  action 
related  to  the  UST  petroleum  releases  at  the  was  required.3 


Letter  from  Rajiv  Dhatia  MD,  DPH-LOP  to  Shannon  Brundieck,  January  23,  2002.  This  letter  is 
available  for  public  review  in  Project  File  No.  2001.0062E  at  the  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street, 
fifth  floor,  San  Francisco. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


97 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 

Identified  On-site  Soil  Contamination 

Petroleum  Hydrocarbons 

Gasoline  contains  over  200  petroleum-derived  constituents.4  Analysis  for  gasoline  in  a  soil  or 
groundwater  matrix  is  commonly  limited  to  detection  of  benzene,  toluene,  ethylbenzene  and  xylenes 
(BTEX).  These  four  constituents,  which  are  readily  measurable  with  conventional  analytical 
methods,  can  pose  a  serious  threat  to  human  health,  have  the  potential  to  rapidly  move  through  soil 
and  groundwater  and  have  flammable  and  explosive  vapors. 

Presently,  there  are  no  regulatory  remediation  ("cleanup")  levels  for  petroleum  hydrocarbons  in  soils. 
The  local  regulatory  oversight  agency  usually  determines  the  soil  remediation  goals  on  a  case-by- 
case  basis,  depending  on  the  particular  conditions  on  the  site.  Considerations  for  remediation  goals 
include  the  type  of  contaminant,  future  human  health  risks,  potential  for  the  contaminant  to  reach 
groundwater,  extent  of  impacted  soil  and  near-vicinity  receptors. 

The  Phase  II  soil  results  detected  total  petroleum  hydrocarbons  (TPH)  concentrations  in  shallow  soils 
throughout  the  site,  as  well  as  gasoline-range  hydrocarbons  (TPHg)  in  one  of  the  boring  samplings. 
However,  the  concentrations  are  not  at  levels  that  would  warrant  additional  testing  or  remediation. 

Lead  in  Soils 

The  presence  of  lead  in  soils  above  natural  background  levels  can  be  a  common  occurrence  in  former 
industrial  areas.  Depending  on  the  dose,  overexposure  to  lead  can  result  in  chronic  and  acute  health 
effects  manifested  by  seizures,  paralysis,  convulsions  and  possibly  death.5  Possible  sources  of  lead 
include  lead  additives  in  petroleum,  lead-based  exterior  and  interior  paint,  or  former  metalworking 
operations.  Lead  concentrations  can  also  be  above  natural  background  levels  in  artificial  fill 
materials  similar  to  those  that  underlie  the  site  because  these  materials  can  originate  from  former 


4  Regional  Water  Quality  Control  Board  (RWQCB),  Leaking  Underground  Fuel  Tank  Field 
Manual  (LUFT  Task  Force,  1989). 

5  Eugene  Meyer,  Chemistry  of  Hazardous  Materials,  Second  Edition,  Brady,  Prentice  Hall  Career 
and  Technology,  New  Jersey,  1990. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


98 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 

buildings  and  industrial  operations  that  at  one  time  could  have  contained  sources  of  lead  such  as 
piping  and  construction  materials.  The  California  Code  of  Regulations,  Title  22,  considers  soil  with 
lead  to  be  hazardous  waste  if  it  exceeds  a  total  concentration  of  750  parts  per  million  (ppm)  and  a 
soluble  concentration  of  5  ppm.6  The  Phase  II  investigation  revealed  elevated  levels  of  lead, 
however,  only  three  of  the  45  samples  exceeded  the  threshold  concentration. 

Impacts 

This  section  describes  potential  impacts  related  to  the  proposed  project  and  legally  required 
remediation  and  abatement  measures  that  would  be  implemented  as  part  of  the  project  to  reduce  or 
eliminate  potential  impacts.  Additional  mitigation  measures  identified  in  this  EIR  are  included  in 
Chapter  IV,  Mitigation  Measures.  No  significant  hazardous  materials  impacts  that  cannot  be 
mitigated  have  been  identified. 

Significance  Criteria 

As  noted  above,  hazardous  materials  are  substances  with  certain  chemical  or  physical  properties  that 
may  pose  a  present  or  future  hazard  to  human  health  or  the  environment  when  improperly  handled, 
stored,  disposed  or  otherwise  managed.  Hazardous  materials  impacts  would  be  considered 
significant  for  the  purposes  of  this  EIR  if  they  were  to  create  a  potential  public  health  hazard  or 
involve  the  use,  production  or  disposal  of  materials  that  pose  a  hazard  to  people  or  animal  or  plant 
populations  in  the  affected  area.  Impacts  would  also  be  considered  significant  if  the  proposed  project 
would  interfere  with  emergency  response  plans  or  emergency  evacuation  plans. 

Determination  of  "substantial"  hazard  or  "significant"  levels  of  hazardous  materials  is  performed  on  a 
case-by-case  basis,  although  generally  there  are  regulatory  guidelines  for  determining  acceptable 
levels  and/or  public  health  risks  associated  with  exposure  to  hazardous  materials.  Definition, 
identification,  and  determination  of  threshold  levels  of  hazardous  materials  are  provided  in  the  Code 
of  Federal  Regulations  Title  40  and  in  the  Code  of  California  Regulations  (CCR)  Titles  22  and  26. 


Analysis  of  the  soluble  concentration  of  lead  is  performed  to  assess  the  soil's  ability  to  "leach" 
lead  into  the  underlying  groundwater. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


99 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 

Impact  Analysis 

The  Phase  II  investigation  revealed  elevated  levels  of  total  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  lead  and 
chromium  in  the  soil.  Elevated  concentrations  of  total  barium,  chromium,  nickel,  and  zinc  were 
found  in  artificial  fill  soil  on  the  site.  Elevated  concentrations  of  soluble  chromium,  lead,  nickel,  and 
zinc  were  also  detected  in  several  samples  submitted  for  the  Waste  Extraction  Test  analysis.  The 
Phase  II  recommended  that  a  Site  Mitigation  Plan  and  a  Soil  Management  Plan  be  prepared  to  safely 
remediate  the  site. 

A  Sampling  Plan  and  the  Site  Mitigation  Plan  (SMP)  was  prepared  by  William  Dubovsky 
Environmental  (WDE)  in  April  2001,  and  reviewed  by  the  EHS-HWU.  In  response  to  a  number  of 
concerns  raised  by  EHS-HWU,  an  Amended  Site  Mitigation  Plan  was  prepared  by  SGI  in  July  2001. 
Copies  of  the  reports  and  EHS-HWU's  comments  are  available  for  public  review  as  part  of  the 
project  file  at  the  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street. 

The  Amended  SMP  contained  the  results  of  24  additional  shallow  soil  borings  as  proposed  by  the 
Sampling  Plan,  12  of  which  were  beneath  the  existing  buildings.  Soil  samples  were  taken  at  the 
depths  of  one  to  two  feet  deep,  except  for  those  within  the  proposed  elevator  pits,  which  were  taken 
at  the  depth  of  six  feet.  The  Amended  SMP  noted  that  the  levels  of  metals  and  TPH  were  found  to  be 
consistent  with  levels  previously  found  in  other  areas  of  the  site  in  the  Phase  II  studies.  Elevated 
levels  of  chromium,  however,  were  found  in  the  cross  pattern  of  one  of  the  boring  samples  (2,360 
mg/kg  which  exceeds  the  industrial  Preliminary  Remediation  Goal  of  450  mg/kg  set  by  the  U.S. 
EPA).  The  Amended  SMP  estimated  that  approximately  of  235  cubic  yards  of  chromium-impacted 
soil  may  be  disturbed  during  grading  activities. 

The  SMP  proposed  that  throughout  the  entire  span  of  soil  compaction  and  site  development,  the  work 
area  would  be  wetted  down  at  least  three  times  daily  to  reduce  potential  dust.  Air  monitoring  would 
be  conducted  during  the  work.  Should  off-site  disposal  be  necessary,  all  soils  would  be  stockpiled  on 
an  impermeable  surface  and  covered  with  visqueen  pending  characterization. 

In  a  letter  dated  August  9,  2001,  EHS-HWU  requested  that  the  area  where  elevated  chromium 
concentrations  were  found  be  removed  from  the  site  and  not  be  included  as  part  of  the  fill  material. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


100 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 

A  plan  to  mitigate  the  contamination  would  be  prepared  by  the  project  sponsor  and  submitted  to 
EHS-HWU  for  review. 

The  mitigation  measures  listed  on  pages  106  through  110  would  ensure  that  the  hazardous  materials 
on  the  project  site  would  be  removed  and  treated  in  accordance  with  regulatory  guidelines  and  that 
there  would  be  no  potential  significant  hazardous  materials  impacts  associated  with  the  proposed 
project. 

Construction  Dewatering 

Although  the  construction  techniques  used  in  building  the  project  foundation  and  below  grade 
parking  garage  would  prevent  off-site  groundwater  from  seeping  into  the  site,  the  excavation  of  the 
soil  would  entail  dewatering  and  discharging  the  water.  Due  to  the  presence  of  contaminated  soils, 
there  may  be  localized  areas  of  groundwater  contamination  on  the  site.  Contaminants  could  include 
petroleum  hydrocarbons  and  lead.  As  noted  in  the  Initial  Study  on  page  A-20,  dewatered 
groundwater  would  be  discharged  to  the  City's  combined  storm  and  sanitary  sewer  system  in 
accordance  with  the  City's  Industrial  Waste  Ordinance  Number  199-77  {Public  Works  Code,  Article 
4.1)  or  to  the  Bay  pursuant  to  an  approval  discharge  permit.  If  standards  could  not  be  met  with  on- 
site  treatment,  off-site  disposal  by  a  certified  waste-hauling  contractor  would  be  required.  The 
project  sponsor  and  the  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health  would  identify  the  appropriate 
handling  procedures  for  groundwater  produced  during  dewatering.  These  measures  would  minimize 
public  health  exposure  to  hazardous  materials  present  in  the  dewatering  discharge  and  reduce 
potential  impacts  to  a  less-than-significant  level. 

E.    CULTURAL  RESOURCES 

An  archeological  cultural  resources  evaluation  of  the  project  site  was  completed  by  an  independent 
consultant  and  is  summarized  here.1  In  its  natural  state,  the  project  site  was  situated  on  relatively 
level  ground  at  elevations  ranging  between  0  and  10  feet  above  mean  sea  level.  Based  on  a  review  of 


After  the  Initial  Study  was  published,  an  archival  cultural  resources  report  was  prepared  for  the 
project  site  by  an  archeologist,  Allen  G.  Pastron,  PhD.,  Archival  Cultural  Resources  Evaluation  of  the 
Proposed  491  Bayshore  Boulevard/196  Loomis  Street,  Home  Depot  Project,  San  Francisco,  California, 
May  2002. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


101 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

CULTURAL  RESOURCES 

various  historical  maps,  the  project  site  and  its  immediate  locale  were  situated  amidst  the  salt 
marshes  surrounding  Islais  Creek  on  the  interface  of  the  wet  and  dry  environmental  zones. 

Although  no  prehistoric/protohistoric  resources  are  known  to  exist  on  the  project  site,  numerous 
archeological  sites  have  been  recorded  in  the  Islais  Creek  region.  The  project  site  is  generally 
situated  in  what  was,  prior  to  the  arrival  of  the  first  Europeans,  the  northwestern  portion  of  the 
territory  occupied  by  the  Costanoan  people,  a  Native  American  group  also  referred  to  in 
anthropological  literature  as  the  Ohlone.  The  natural  setting  of  the  project  site  was  a  generally 
favorable  environmental  setting  for  the  encampments  of  aboriginal  hunters  and  gatherers. 

As  far  as  can  be  determined  from  historical  records,  the  area  surrounding  and  including  the  project 
site  remained  in  a  completely  natural  state  throughout  the  Spanish/Mexican  era.  Consequently,  there 
is  very  little,  if  any,  likelihood  of  encountering  significant  or  potentially  significant  subsurface 
cultural  deposits  from  the  Spanish/Mexican  era  within  the  confines  of  the  proposed  project  site. 

Historical  records  indicate  that  the  project  site  remained  in  a  completely  natural  state  throughout  the 
Early  American  and  Gold  Rush  eras.  The  1869  U.S.  Coast  and  Geodetic  Survey  Map  of  San 
Francisco  shows  the  project  site  to  be  completely  undeveloped.  By  contrast,  San  Francisco's 
downtown  area  at  this  same  period  was  a  bustling  metropolis.  At  the  turn  of  the  century,  a  portion  of 
Islais  Creek  still  ran  through  the  project  site.  The  1914  Sanborn  Insurance  Company  Maps  of  San 
Francisco  show  that  the  rivulet  of  Islais  Creek  had  been  filled  in,  San  Bruno  Avenue  runs  along  the 
current  Bayshore  Boulevard  bordering  the  western  portion  of  the  project  site,  and  a  railroad  track  is 
to  the  east  of  the  project  site.  A  line  of  five,  small-to-medium-sized  sheds  appear  on  the  project  site 
near  intersection  of  Cortland  Avenue  and  San  Bruno  Avenue. 

The  marshy  tract  that  characterized  much  of  the  Islais  Creek  neighborhood  was  finally  transformed 
into  buildable  land  by  the  first  half  of  the  20th  Century.  It  was  not  until  the  1950s  that  any 
appreciable  number  of  industries  and  businesses  had  begun  to  occupy  the  reclaimed  land.  During 
this  period  the  James  Lick  Freeway  (1-280)  was  added  to  the  industrial  landscape  of  the  region  and 
continues  to  dominate  and  in  many  ways  define  the  neighborhood. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


102 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Setting  and  Impacts 

GROWTH  INDUCEMENT 

The  cultural  resources  evaluation  concluded  that  given  the  multiplicity  of  documented,  prehistoric 
deposits  in  the  project  area,  the  project  site  should  be  deemed  a  zone  of  high  prehistoric/protohistoric 
archeological  sensitivity.  Accordingly,  a  systematic  program  of  pre-construction  archeological 
testing  and  evaluation  is  recommended.  With  implementation  of  the  Cultural  Resources  Mitigation 
Measure,  the  project's  potential  impact  on  subsurface  cultural  resources  would  be  reduced  to  a  level 
of  insignificance. 

F.    GROWTH  INDUCEMENT 

#  In  general,  a  project  would  be  considered  growth-inducing  if  its  implementation  would  result  in 
substantial  population  increases  and/or  new  development  that  might  not  occur  if  the  project  were  not 
approved  and  implemented.  The  proposed  project  would  replace  two  existing  buildings,  formerly 
used  for  a  home  improvement  and  building  supply  store  and  a  retail  home  furnishing  and  supply 
store  totaling  approximately  107,400  sq.ft.,  with  an  approximately  153,089  sq.-ft.  home  improvement 
store  and  a  539-space  parking  garage.  This  would  intensify  the  use  of  the  site,  but  would  not  be 
expected  to  substantially  alter  development  patterns  in  the  northwest  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area  or 
elsewhere  in  San  Francisco.  The  project  site  is  in  an  urbanized  area  that  is  intensively  developed  and 
already  supports  substantial  amounts  of  light  industrial,  warehouse,  commercial,  and  residential 
development  in  surrounding  blocks. 

•  The  addition  of  the  home  improvement  store  and  parking  garage  would  increase  the  daily  population 
on  the  project  site  by  approximately  2,500  to  3,300  people.  This  daily  population  would  consist  of 
approximately  175  to  197  employees  and  as  many  as  2,500  to  3,000  shoppers  per  day.  It  is 
anticipated  that  most  of  the  new  employees  would  already  reside  in  San  Francisco,  while  some 
employees  from  outside  the  City  may  seek  housing  within  the  City  boundaries. 

The  number  of  on-site  employees  relocating  from  outside  San  Francisco  would  be  small  in 
proportion  to  San  Francisco's  overall  population,  and  would  not  represent  a  substantial  growth  in 
population  or  concentration  in  the  neighborhood,  City,  or  region. 

The  proposed  project  is  located  in  an  urban  area  and  would  not  necessitate  or  induce  the  extension  of 
municipal  infrastructure.  The  project  may  induce  commercial  growth  in  the  area,  but  such  growth 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


103 


July  28,  2005 


III.  Environmental  Sett[ng  and  Impacts 

GROWTH  INDUCEMENT 

would  be  part  of  the  planned  growth  for  the  City.  Therefore,  the  proposed  project  would  not  have  a 
significant  effect  on  growth  inducement. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


104 


July  28,  2005 


IV.  MITIGATION  MEASURES  PROPOSED  TO 
MINIMIZE  THE  POTENTIAL 
ADVERSE  IMPACTS  OF  THE  PROJECT 


Pursuant  to  CEQA,  for  each  significant  impact  identified  in  the  EIR,  the  EIR  must  discuss  feasible 
measures  to  avoid  or  substantially  reduce  the  project's  significant  effects.  Some  of  the  mitigation 
measures  discussed  in  this  EIR  that  would  avoid  or  reduce  significant  environmental  effects  have 
been  adopted  by  the  project  sponsor  and,  therefore,  are  proposed  as  part  of  the  project.  Some 
measures  would  require  implementation  by  public  agencies.  Section  A,  below,  contains  those 
mitigation  measures  identified  in  this  EIR  as  necessary  to  mitigate  significant  environmental  effects. 
Mitigation  measures  would  reduce  but  not  eliminate  the  impacts  of  the  proposed  project  on 
transportation  and  air  quality.  There  are  no  feasible  mitigation  measures  for  the  potentially 
significant  impacts  on  regional  emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases  and  for  the  2015  adverse 
cumulative  conditions  on  the  five  ramps  on  U.S  101  and  1-280  Freeways.  Mitigation  measures 
identified  in  this  EIR  would  be  required  by  the  Planning  Commission  as  conditions  of  project 
approval  unless  they  are  demonstrated  to  be  infeasible  based  on  substantial  evidence  in  the  record. 

Measures  discussed  below  are  divided  into  two  categories:  (1)  measures  that  would  avoid  potentially 
significant  impacts;  and  (2)  measures  proposed  to  improve  project  effects  that  would  not  be 
considered  significant  impacts.  Several  items  are  required  by  law  that  would  serve  to  mitigate 
impacts.  These  include  a  limitation  on  construction  noise  (San  Francisco  Noise  Ordinance,  Article 
29  of  the  San  Francisco  Police  Code,  1972);  a  prohibition  on  the  use  of  mirrored  glass  on  the 
building  (City  Planning  Commission  Resolution  No.  9212);  and  protective  measures  against  lead- 
based  paint  exposure  (Chapter  36  of  the  San  Francisco  Building  Code,  Work  Practices  for  Exterior 
Lead-Based  Paint).  The  project  sponsor  and  construction  contractors  would  also  be  required  to 
observe  all  state  and  federal  OSHA  safety  requirements  related  to  handling  and  disposal  of  other 
hazardous  materials,  such  as  asbestos. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


105 


July  28,  2005 


IV.  Mitigation  Measures 


The  mitigation  measures  identified  in  this  EIR  follow. 

A.  MITIGATION  MEASURES 

Measures  That  Would  Be  Implemented  by  Public  Agencies 

Transportation 

In  the  year  2015,  the  cumulative  conditions  at  the  Mission  Street/Cortland  Avenue 
intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  F  during  both  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour.  The  poor  operating  conditions  would  be  due  to  the  increase  in  overall 
traffic  volumes  at  the  intersection,  making  it  difficult  for  vehicles  to  turn  left  from 
southbound  Mission  Street  to  Cortland  Avenue.  The  project's  contribution  to  this  adverse 
condition  would  be  significant,  however,  operations  of  this  left  turn  movement  could  be 
improved  by  creating  a  left-turn  phase  (left-turns  would  be  permitted  during  the 
northbound/southbound  phase,  but  would  have  their  own  protected  left-turn  phase  as  well). 
With  this  mitigation  measure,  the  intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  C  during  the  weekday 
PM  peak  hour  and  LOS  D  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  The  project  sponsor 
would  pay  for  the  costs  of  this  measure. 

Measures  Proposed  as  Part  of  the  Project 

Construction  Air  Quality 

The  project  sponsor  shall  require  the  construction  contractor(s)  to  spray  the  project  site  with 
water  during  excavation,  grading,  and  site  preparation  activities;  spray  unpaved  construction 
areas  with  water  at  least  twice  per  day;  cover  stockpiles  of  soil,  sand,  and  other  such  material; 
cover  trucks  hauling  debris,  soils,  sand  or  other  such  material;  and  sweep  surrounding  streets 
during  these  periods  at  least  once  per  day  to  reduce  particulate  emissions.  Ordinance  175-91, 
passed  by  the  Board  of  Supervisors  on  May  6,  1991,  requires  that  non-potable  water  be  used 
for  dust  control  activities.  Therefore,  the  project  sponsor  shall  require  the  construction 
contractor(s)  to  obtain  reclaimed  water  from  the  Clean  Water  Program  for  this  purpose. 

The  project  sponsor  shall  require  the  project  contractor(s)  to  maintain  and  operate 
construction  equipment  so  as  to  minimize  exhaust  emissions  of  particulates  and  other 
pollutants,  by  such  means  as  prohibiting  idling  motors  when  equipment  is  not  in  use  or  when 
trucks  are  waiting  in  queues,  and  implementing  specific  maintenance  programs  to  reduce 
emissions  for  equipment  that  would  be  in  frequent  use  for  much  of  the  construction  period. 

In  addition  to  the  standard  mitigation  procedures  above,  the  following  additional  measures 
shall  be  implemented  due  to  proximity  of  a  sensitive  receptor  (the  Montessori  School  on 
Loomis  and  Industrial  Streets): 

•  Contractors  will  suspend  dust-producing  activities  when  winds  (instantaneous  gusts) 
exceed  25  mph. 

•  The  project  sponsor  will  require  the  construction  contractor  to  designate  a  dust-control 
coordinator  who  will  respond  to  dust  complaints.  This  person's  name  and  phone  will  be 
posted  prominently  on  the  project  site  and  provided  to  the  Big  City  Montessori  School. 


2001 .0062E  491  Bayshorc/196  Loomis  Street 


106 


July  28,  2005 


IV.  Mitigation  Measures 


This  person  shall  respond  to  complaints  within  24-hours  or  less  and  have  the  authority  to 
take  corrective  action. 

•  Watering  will  be  used  to  control  dust  generation  during  demolition  of  structures  and 
break-up  of  pavement. 

•  Dust-proof  chutes  to  load  debris  into  trucks  will  be  used  whenever  feasible. 


Hazards 

The  project  sponsor  shall  follow  the  mitigation  measures  delineated  and  described  in  the 
William  Dubovsky  Environmental  Site  Mitigation  Plan,  SGI's  Amended  Site  Mitigation 
Plan,  and  comply  with  DPH's  letters  dated  June  11,  2001  and  August  9,  2001  and  any  further 
guidelines  and  revisions  set  by  the  DPH,  including  implementation  of  the  Health  and  Safety 
Plan  (HSP).  The  project  sponsor  must  take  the  following  actions  prior  to  approval  and 
issuance  by  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  of  the  building  permit  application  for 
construction  of  the  new  buildings  on  the  project  site. 

Based  on  the  results  of  the  Phase  II  Environmental  Site  Assessment  (ESA)  soil  tests, 
Environmental  Health  Management  Section-Hazardous  Waste  Unit  (EHS-HWU)  determined 
the  soils  on  the  project  site  are  contaminated  with  lead,  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  total 
chromium,  or  other  materials  associated  with  previous  businesses  on  the  site.  The  project 
sponsor  shall  submit  a  detailed  Project  Construction/Excavation  Plan  and  a  revised  Site 
Mitigation  Plan  (SMP)  to  EHS-HWU  at  1390  Market  Street,  Suite  822,  San  Francisco, 
California  94102  for  review  and  approval. 

Preparation  of  Revised  Site  Mitigation  Plan 

The  revised  SMP  shall  include  a  discussion  of  the  level  of  contamination  of  soils  on  the 
project  site  by  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  lead,  total  chromium  or  other  hazardous  materials 
and  mitigation  measures  for  managing  contaminated  soils  on  the  site,  including,  but  not 
limited  to:  1)  the  removal  of  the  contaminated  soils;  and  2)  the  specific  practices  to  be  used 
to  handle,  haul,  and  dispose  of  contaminated  soils  on  the  site,  including,  but  not  limited  to, 
the  measures  listed  below. 

Preparation  of  a  Revised  Health  and  Safety  Plan 

The  project  sponsor  shall  submit  a  revised  Health  and  Safety  Plan  (HSP),  prepared  in 
accordance  with  State  of  California  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration 
Guidelines,  to  the  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health,  Environmental  Health 
Management  Section-  Hazardous  Waste  Unit  (EHS-HWU)  at  1390  Market  Street,  Suite  822, 
San  Francisco,  California  94102  for  review,  approval,  and  implementation.  The  HSP  shall  be 
prepared  by  a  Health  and  Safety  Officer  certified  by  the  State  of  California.  The  HSP  shall 
contain  an  analysis  of  potential  hazards  on  the  project  site,  including  exposure  petroleum 
hydrocarbons,  or  other  hazardous  materials  associated  with  gas  and  oil  facility,  that  may  be 
encountered  by  workers  on  the  project  site;  and  precautions  to  mitigate  the  potential  hazards. 
As  noted  in  the  Amended  SMP  submitted  by  the  project  sponsor  to  EHS-HWU,  an  HSP  shall 
be  submitted  at  least  two  weeks  prior  to  commencement  of  any  redevelopment  site  work. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


107 


July  28,  2005 


IV.  Mitigation  Measures 


Handling,  Hauling,  and  Disposal  of  Contaminated  Soils 

(a)  specific  work  practices:  If  the  project  sponsor  assumes  that  the  soils  on  the  project  site 
are  contaminated  with  lead,  total  chromium,  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  or  other  hazardous 
materials  associated  with  gas  and  oil  facility  at  or  above  potentially  hazardous  levels;  or  if, 
based  on  the  results  of  the  soil  tests  conducted,  DPH  determines  that  the  soils  on  the  project 
site  are  contaminated  with  lead,  total  chromium,  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  or  other  hazardous 
materials  at  or  above  potentially  hazardous  levels,  the  construction  contractor  shall  be  alert 
for  the  presence  of  such  soils  during  excavation  and  other  construction  activities  on  the  site 
(detected  through  soil  odor,  color,  and  texture  and  results  of  on-site  soil  testing),  and  shall  be 
prepared  to  handle,  profile  (i.e.,  characterize),  and  dispose  of  such  soils  appropriately  (i.e.,  as 
dictated  by  local,  state,  and  federal  regulations,  including  Cal-OSHA  safe  work  practices) 
when  such  soils  are  encountered  on  the  site. 

(b)  dust  suppression:  The  construction  contractor  shall  keep  soils  exposed  during  excavation 
for  site  preparation  and  project  construction  moist  throughout  the  time  they  are  exposed,  both 
during  and  after  work  hours. 

(c)  surface  water  runoff  control:  Where  soils  are  stockpiled,  the  construction  contractor  shall 
use  visqueen  to  create  an  impermeable  liner,  both  beneath  and  on  top  of  the  soils,  with  a 
berm  to  contain  any  potential  surface  water  runoff  from  the  soil  stockpiles  during  inclement 
weather. 

(d)  soils  replacement:  If  necessary,  the  construction  contractor  shall  use  clean  fill  or  other 
suitable  material(s)  to  bring  portions  of  the  project  site,  where  contaminated  soils  have  been 
excavated  and  removed,  up  to  construction  grade. 

(e)  hauling  and  disposal:  The  construction  contractor  shall  haul  contaminated  soils  off  the 
project  site  by  waste  hauling  trucks  appropriately  certified  with  the  State  of  California  and 
adequately  covered  to  prevent  dispersion  of  the  soils  during  transit,  and  shall  dispose  of 
contaminated  soils  at  a  permitted  hazardous  waste  disposal  facility  registered  with  the  State 
of  California  or  other  appropriate  agency. 

Preparation  of  Closure/Certification  Report 

After  excavation  and  foundation  construction  activities  are  completed,  the  project  sponsor 
shall  prepare  and  submit  a  closure/certification  report  to  the  San  Francisco  Department  of 
Public  Health,  Environmental  Health  Management  Section-Hazardous  Waste  Unit  (EHS- 
HWU)  for  review  and  approval  at  1390  Market  Street,  Suite  822,  San  Francisco,  California 
94102.  The  closure/certification  report  shall  include  the  mitigation  measures  in  the  SMP  for 
handling  and  removing  contaminated  soils  from  the  project  site,  whether  the  construction 
contractor  modified  any  of  these  mitigation  measures,  and  how  and  why  the  construction 
contractor  modified  those  mitigation  measures. 

Deed  Recordation  on  Remaining  Contaminated  Soils 

If  potentially  hazardous  levels  of  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  lead,  total  chromium  or  other 
hazardous  materials  associated  with  gas  and  oil  facility  remain  in  soils  on  the  project  site 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshorc/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


108 


July  28, 2005 


IV.  Mitigation  Measures 


after  project  construction  and  if  both  of  the  following  circumstances  are  met,  the  project 
sponsor  shall  file  a  recordation  on  the  deed  for  the  subject  property  that  indicates  the  need  to 
take  special  precautions  during  future  disturbance  of  the  soils  on  the  property  due  to  certain 
on-site  soil  conditions: 

(a)  The  project  sponsor  assumes  that  the  soils  on  the  project  site  are  contaminated  with  lead, 
total  chromium  or  petroleum  hydrocarbons  at  or  above  potentially  hazardous  levels;  OR 
based  on  the  results  of  the  soil  tests  conducted,  DPH  determines  that  the  soils  on  the  project 
site  are  contaminated  with  lead,  total  chromium  or  petroleum  hydrocarbons  at  or  above 
potentially  hazardous  levels;  and 

(b)  Potentially  hazardous  levels  of  lead,  total  chromium  or  petroleum  hydrocarbons  remain 
in  soils  on  the  project  site. 

•     Cultural  Resources 

Based  on  a  reasonable  presumption  that  archeological  resources  may  be  present  within  the 
project  site,  the  following  measures  shall  be  undertaken  to  avoid  any  potentially  significant 
adverse  effect  from  the  proposed  project  on  buried  or  submerged  historical  resources.  The 
project  sponsor  shall  retain  the  services  of  a  qualified  archeological  consultant  having 
expertise  in  California  prehistoric  and  urban  historical  archeology.  The  archeological 
consultant  shall  undertake  an  archeological  testing  program  as  specified  herein.  In  addition, 
the  consultant  shall  be  available  to  conduct  an  archeological  monitoring  and/or  data  recovery 
program  if  required  pursuant  to  this  measure.  The  archeological  consultant's  work  shall  be 
conducted  in  accordance  with  this  measure  at  the  direction  of  the  Environmental  Review 
Officer  (ERO).  All  plans  and  reports  prepared  by  the  consultant  as  specified  herein  shall  be 
submitted  first  and  directly  to  the  ERO  for  review  and  comment,  and  shall  be  considered 
draft  reports  subject  to  revision  until  final  approval  by  the  ERO.  Archeological  monitoring 
and/or  data  recovery  programs  required  by  this  measure  could  suspend  construction  of  the 
project  for  up  to  a  maximum  of  four  weeks.  At  the  direction  of  the  ERO,  the  suspension  of 
construction  can  be  extended  beyond  four  weeks  only  if  such  a  suspension  is  the  only 
feasible  means  to  reduce  to  a  less-than-significant  level  potential  effects  on  a  significant 
archeological  resource  as  defined  in  CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15064.5  (a)(c). 

Archeological  Testing  Program  The  archeological  consultant  shall  prepare  and  submit  to  the 
ERO  for  review  and  approval  an  archeological  testing  plan  (ATP).  The  archeological  testing 
program  shall  be  conducted  in  accordance  with  the  approved  ATP.  The  ATP  shall  identify 
the  property  types  of  the  expected  archeological  resource(s)  that  potentially  could  be 
adversely  affected  by  the  proposed  project,  the  testing  method  to  be  used,  and  the  locations 
recommended  for  testing.  The  purpose  of  the  archeological  testing  program  will  be  to 
determine  to  the  extent  possible  the  presence  or  absence  of  archeological  resources  and  to 
identify  and  to  evaluate  whether  any  archeological  resource  encountered  on  the  site 
constitutes  an  historical  resource  under  CEQA. 

At  the  completion  of  the  archeological  testing  program,  the  archeological  consultant  shall 
submit  a  written  report  of  the  findings  to  the  ERO.  If  based  on  the  archeological  testing 
program  the  archeological  consultant  finds  that  significant  archeological  resources  may  be 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


109 


July  28,  2005 


IV.  Mitigation  Measures 


present,  the  ERO  in  consultation  with  the  archeological  consultant  shall  determine  if 
additional  measures  are  warranted.  Additional  measures  that  may  be  undertaken  include 
additional  archeological  testing,  archeological  monitoring,  and/or  an  archeological  data 
recovery  program.  If  the  ERO  determines  that  a  significant  archeological  resource  is  present 
and  that  the  resource  could  be  adversely  affected  by  the  proposed  project,  at  the  discretion  of 
the  project  sponsor  either: 

A)  The  proposed  project  shall  be  re-designed  so  as  to  avoid  any  adverse  effect  on  the 
significant  archeological  resource;  or 

B)  A  data  recovery  program  shall  be  implemented,  unless  the  ERO  determines  that  the 
archeological  resource  is  of  greater  interpretive  than  research  significance  and  that 
interpretive  use  of  the  resource  is  feasible. 

Archeological  Monitoring  Program.  If  the  ERO  in  consultation  with  the  archeological 
consultant  determines  that  an  archeological  monitoring  program  shall  be  implemented  the 
archeological  monitoring  program  shall  minimally  include  the  following  provisions: 

•  The  archeological  consultant,  project  sponsor,  and  ERO  shall  meet  and  consult  on  the 
scope  of  the  AMP  reasonably  prior  to  any  project-related  soils  disturbing  activities 
commencing.  The  ERO  in  consultation  with  the  archeological  consultant  shall  determine 
what  project  activities  shall  be  archeologically  monitored.  In  most  cases,  any  soils- 
disturbing  activities,  such  as  demolition,  foundation  removal,  excavation,  grading, 
utilities  installation,  foundation  work,  driving  of  piles  (foundation,  shoring,  etc.),  site 
remediation,  etc.,  shall  require  archeological  monitoring  because  of  the  risk  these 
activities  pose  to  potential  archeological  resources  and  to  their  depositional  context; 

•  The  archeological  consultant  shall  advise  all  project  contractors  to  be  on  the  alert  for 
evidence  of  the  presence  of  the  expected  resource(s),  of  how  to  identify  the  evidence  of 
the  expected  resource(s),  and  of  the  appropriate  protocol  in  the  event  of  apparent 
discovery  of  an  archeological  resource; 

•  The  archeological  monitor(s)  shall  be  present  on  the  project  site  according  to  a  schedule 
agreed  upon  by  the  archeological  consultant  and  the  ERO  until  the  ERO  has,  in 
consultation  with  project  archeological  consultant,  determined  that  project  construction 
activities  could  have  no  effects  on  significant  archeological  deposits; 

•  The  archeological  monitor  shall  record  and  be  authorized  to  collect  soil  samples  and 
artifactual/ecofactual  material  as  warranted  for  analysis; 

•  If  an  intact  archeological  deposit  were  encountered,  all  soils-disturbing  activities  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  deposit  shall  cease.  The  archeological  monitor  shall  be  empowered  to 
temporarily  redirect  demolition/excavation/pile  driving/construction  activities  and 
equipment  until  the  deposit  is  evaluated.  If  in  the  case  of  pile  driving  activity 
(foundation,  shoring,  etc.),  the  archeological  monitor  has  cause  to  believe  that  the  pile 
driving  activity  may  affect  an  archeological  resource,  the  pile  driving  activity  shall  be 
terminated  until  an  appropriate  evaluation  of  the  resource  has  been  made  in  consultation 
with  the  ERO.   The  archeological  consultant  shall  immediately  notify  the  ERO  of  the 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


109a 


July  28,  2005 


IV.  Mitigation  Measures 


encountered  archeological  deposit.  The  archeological  consultant  shall  make  a  reasonable 
effort  to  assess  the  identity,  integrity,  and  significance  of  the  encountered  archeological 
deposit,  and  present  the  findings  of  this  assessment  to  the  ERO.  Whether  or  not 
significant  archeological  resources  are  encountered,  the  archeological  consultant  shall 
submit  a  written  report  of  the  findings  of  the  monitoring  program  to  the  ERO. 

Archeological  Data  Recovery  Program.  The  archeological  data  recovery  program  shall  be 
conducted  in  accord  with  an  archeological  data  recovery  plan  (ADRP).  The  archeological 
consultant,  project  sponsor,  and  ERO  shall  meet  and  consult  on  the  scope  of  the  ADRP  prior 
to  preparation  of  a  draft  ADRP.  The  archeological  consultant  shall  submit  a  draft  ADRP  to 
the  ERO.  The  ADRP  shall  identify  how  the  proposed  data  recovery  program  will  preserve 
the  significant  information  the  archeological  resource  is  expected  to  contain.  That  is,  the 
ADRP  will  identify  what  scientific/historical  research  questions  are  applicable  to  the 
expected  resource,  what  data  classes  the  resource  is  expected  to  possess,  and  how  the 
expected  data  classes  would  address  the  applicable  research  questions.  Data  recovery,  in 
general,  should  be  limited  to  the  portions  of  the  historical  property  that  could  be  adversely 
affected  by  the  proposed  project.  Destructive  data  recovery  methods  shall  not  be  applied  to 
portions  of  the  archeological  resources  if  nondestructive  methods  are  practical. 

The  scope  of  the  ADRP  shall  include  the  following  elements: 

•  Field  Methods  and  Procedures.  Descriptions  of  proposed  field  strategies,  procedures, 
and  operations. 

•  Cataloguing  and  Laboratory  Analysis.  Description  of  selected  cataloguing  system  and 
artifact  analysis  procedures. 

•  Discard  and  Deaccession  Policy.  Description  of  and  rationale  for  field  and  post-field 
discard  and  deaccession  policies. 

•  Interpretive  Program.  Consideration  of  an  on-site/off-site  public  interpretive  program 
during  the  course  of  the  archeological  data  recovery  program. 

•  Security  Measures.  Recommended  security  measures  to  protect  the  archeological 
resource  from  vandalism,  looting,  and  nonintentionally  damaging  activities. 

•  Final  Report.  Description  of  proposed  report  format  and  distribution  of  results. 

•  Curation.  Description  of  the  procedures  and  recommendations  for  the  curation  of  any 
recovered  data  having  potential  research  value,  identification  of  appropriate  curation 
facilities,  and  a  summary  of  the  accession  policies  of  the  curation  facilities. 

Human  Remains  and  Associated  or  Unassociated  Funerary  Objects.  The  treatment  of  human 
remains  and  of  associated  or  unassociated  funerary  objects  discovered  during  any  soils 
disturbing  activity  shall  comply  with  applicable  State  and  Federal  laws.  This  shall  include 
immediate  notification  of  the  Coroner  of  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  and  in  the 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


109b 


July  28,  2005 


IV.  Mitigation  Measures 


event  of  the  Coroner's  determination  that  the  human  remains  are  Native  American  remains, 
notification  of  the  California  State  Native  American  Heritage  Commission  (NAHC),  which 
shall  appoint  a  Most  Likely  Descendant  (MLD)  (Public  Resource  Code  Section  5097.98). 
The  archeological  consultant,  project  sponsor,  and  MLD  shall  make  all  reasonable  efforts  to 
develop  an  agreement  for  the  treatment  of,  with  appropriate  dignity,  human  remains  and 
associated  or  unassociated  funerary  objects  (CEQA  Guidelines,  Section  15064.5(d)).  The 
agreement  should  take  into  consideration  the  appropriate  excavation,  removal,  recordation, 
analysis,  custodianship,  curation,  and  final  disposition  of  the  human  remains  and  associated 
or  unassociated  funerary  objects. 

Final  Archeological  Resources  Report.  The  archeological  consultant  shall  submit  a  Draft 
Final  Archeological  Resources  Report  (FARR)  to  the  ERO  that  evaluates  the  historical 
significance  of  any  discovered  archeological  resource  and  describes  the  archeological  and 
historical  research  methods  employed  in  the  archeological  testing/monitoring/data  recovery 
program(s)  undertaken.  Information  that  may  put  at  risk  any  archeological  resource  shall  be 
provided  in  a  separate  removable  insert  within  the  final  report. 

Once  approved  by  the  ERO,  copies  of  the  FARR  shall  be  distributed  as  follows:  California 
Archeological  Site  Survey  Northwest  Information  Center  (NWIC)  shall  receive  one  (1)  copy 
and  the  ERO  shall  receive  a  copy  of  the  transmittal  of  the  FARR  to  the  NWIC.  The  Major 
Environmental  Analysis  division  of  the  Planning  Department  shall  receive  three  copies  of  the 
FARR  along  with  copies  of  any  formal  site  recordation  forms  (CA  DPR  523  series)  and/or 
documentation  for  nomination  to  the  National  Register  of  Historic  Places/California  Register 
of  Historical  Resources.  In  instances  of  high  public  interest  in  or  the  high  interpretive  value 
of  the  resource,  the  ERO  may  require  a  different  final  report  content,  format,  and  distribution 
than  that  presented  above. 


B.    IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 

#  Improvement  measures  diminish  effects  of  the  project  that  were  found  through  the  environmental 
analysis  to  be  less-than-significant  impacts.  The  following  measure  would  be  implemented  by  the 
Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  and  the  cost  would  be  borne  by  the  project  sponsor. 

Transportation 

#  In  2015,  the  cumulative  conditions  at  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Silver  Avenue  intersection 
would  operate  at  LOS  D  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  although  the  northbound  left- 
turn  movement  would  operate  at  LOS  F,  the  resulting  queue  would  extend  past  the  left-turn 
pocket.  The  proposed  project  would  not  significantly  contribute  to  the  cumulative 
conditions.  To  improve  operations,  a  protected  northbound  left-turn  phase  could  be 
established  (under  the  existing  signalization  plan  for  the  intersection,  the  northbound  and 
southbound  left-turns  are  permitted,  not  protected),  and  the  cycle  length  could  be  increased 
from  75  seconds  to  90  seconds.  These  improvements  would  be  appropriate  independent  of 
the  project  under  existing  conditions  and  would  be  designed  to  mitigate  cumulative 
significant  impacts  to  which  the  project  would  not  make  a  significant  contribution.  The 
overall  intersection  operating  conditions  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  would  remain  at 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


110 


July  28, 2005 


IV.  Mitigation  Measures 


LOS  D,  but  the  northbound  left-turn  operations  would  improve  and  the  average  delay  per 
vehicle  would  decrease.  Assuming  the  protected  left-turn  phase  would  be  established  at  other 
times,  the  intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  C  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


111 


July  28,  2005 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


112  July  28, 2005 


V.  SIGNIFICANT  ENVIRONMENTAL  EFFECTS 
WHICH  CANNOT  BE  AVOIDED 
IF  THE  PROJECT  IS  IMPLEMENTED 


In  accordance  with  Section  21100(b)(2)(A)  of  the  California  Environmental  Quality  Act  (CEQA), 
and  with  Section  15126.2  of  the  State  CEQA  Guidelines,  the  purpose  of  this  chapter  is  to  identify 
environmental  impacts  that  could  not  be  eliminated  or  reduced  to  an  insignificant  level  by  mitigation 
measures  included  as  part  of  the  proposed  project,  or  by  other  mitigation  measures  that  could  be 
implemented,  as  described  in  Chapter  IV,  Mitigation  Measures,  pages  105  through  111.  This  chapter 
is  subject  to  final  determination  by  the  City  Planning  Commission  as  part  of  its  certification  of  the 
EIR.  The  Final  EIR  has  been  revised,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  findings  of  the  Commission. 

The  proposed  project,  with  mitigation,  would  have  the  following  unavoidable  significant  impacts  in 
the  area  of  air  quality  and  traffic: 

•  The  proposed  project  would  exceed  the  BAAQMD  threshold  of  significance  for  regional 
emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases  (ROG).  This  is  an  unmitigable  project  level  and 
cumulative  impact. 

•  The  proposed  project  would  have  a  significant  unmitigable  contribution  to  the  2015  adverse 
cumulative  conditions  on  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  northbound  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/ 
Industrial  Street;  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/ 
Industrial  Street;  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  northbound  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar 
Chavez  Street;  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  southbound  on-ramp  at  San  Bruno  Avenue;  and  1-280 
Freeway  westbound  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard. 

With  implementation  of  the  mitigation  measures  outlined  in  Chapter  IV,  Mitigation  Measures,  of  this 
report,  all  other  potential  significant  impacts  would  be  reduced  to  a  less-than-significant  level. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


113 


Jul)-  28.  2005 


V.  Significant  Environmental  Effects 


The  project  sponsor  has  agreed  to  implement  all  measures  in  Chapter  IV  (except  for  those  requiring 
public  agency  responsibility)  in  an  agreement  dated  March  25,  2003. 1 


This  mitigation  agreement  is  available  by  appointment  for  public  review  at  the  San 
Francisco  Planning  Department,  1600  Mission  Street,  fifth  floor,  in  Case  File  No.  2001.0062E. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


114 


July  28,  2005 


VI.  ALTERNATIVES  TO  THE 
PROPOSED  PROJECT 


This  chapter  identifies  alternatives  to  the  proposed  project  and  discusses  environmental  impacts 
associated  with  each  alternative.  Project  decision-makers  could  adopt  any  of  the  following 
alternatives  instead  of  the  proposed  project,  if  an  alternative  would  reduce  or  eliminate  significant 
environmental  impacts  of  the  proposed  project  and  is  determined  to  be  feasible  and  would  attain  most 
of  the  basic  objectives  of  the  project.  This  determination  of  feasibility  will  be  made  by  project 
decision-makers  on  the  basis  of  substantial  evidence  in  the  record  which  shall  include,  but  not  be 
limited  to,  information  presented  in  this  EIR  and  in  comments  received  on  the  Draft  EIR. 

Alternatives  were  selected  that  would  reduce  identified  impacts  of  the  proposed  project.  The 
following  alternatives  are  evaluated:  a  No-Project  Alternative,  a  Variant  No-Project  Alternative,  a 
60,000-Square-Foot  Alternative,  a  107,400-Square-Foot  Reduced  Density  Alternative,  and  a 
140,000-Square-Foot  Alternative.  The  Variant  No-Project  Alternative  would  consist  of  the  two 
existing  buildings  on  site  reused  as  permitted  by  zoning  with  no  discretionary  approvals.  The 
60,000-Square-Foot  Alternative  would  consist  of  a  home  improvement  store  with  a  maximum  size  of 
60,000  sq.ft.  The  107,400-Square-Foot  Reduced  Density  Alternative  would  be  the  proposed  home 
improvement  store  approximately  seventy  percent  the  size  of  the  proposed  project.  The  140,000- 
Square-Foot  Alternative  would  be  the  proposed  home  improvement  store  approximately  ninety-one 
percent  the  size  of  the  proposed  project.  Other  alternatives,  with  a  variety  of  building  configurations, 
could  also  be  considered  by  decision-makers  as  such  other  alternatives  would  be  "bracketed"  by  the 
range  of  alternatives  described  herein.  Other  uses,  including  mixed-uses,  for  the  project  site  are  not 
considered  as  the  project  sponsor  only  intends  to  build  and  operate  a  home  improvement  store,  and 
other  uses  would  not  meet  the  basic  objectives  of  the  project. 

Whether  property  is  owned  or  can  reasonably  be  acquired  by  the  project  sponsor  has  a  strong  bearing 
on  the  feasibility  of  developing  a  project  alternative  at  a  different  site.  No  viable  alternative  sites 
have  been  identified  within  San  Francisco  where  the  proposed  project  could  be  constructed  and  meet 


200 1 .0062  E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


115 


July  28,  2005 


VI.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project 

the  project  sponsor's  objectives,  including  locations  along  Third  Street  and  near  Candlestick  Park.  In 
addition,  the  project  sponsor  does  not  own  or  control  any  other  site  in  the  City. 

ALTERNATIVE  A:  NO  PROJECT 
Description 

This  alternative  would  entail  no  change  to  the  existing  site,  which  is  vacant.  The  proposed  project 
would  not  be  built.  This  alternative  reflects  existing  physical  conditions  on  the  site  that  are  already 
described  in  the  Project  Description  and  Land  Use  Setting  discussions  on  pages  25,  26  and  35  to  40. 
This  alternative,  however,  would  not  preclude  future  proposals  for  redevelopment  of  the  project  site. 

Impacts 

If  Alternative  A  were  implemented,  none  of  the  impacts  associated  with  the  proposed  project  would 
occur.  The  project  site  would  remain  vacant  and  appear  as  it  does  in  Figures  8  and  9,  pages  38  and 
39.  The  effects  of  the  proposed  153,089  sq.-ft.  project  and  the  539-space  parking  garage  would  not 
occur,  nor  would  there  be  air  quality  impacts  from  the  proposed  project  which  exceed  the  BAAQMD 
threshold  of  significance  for  regional  emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases  (ROG).  There  would  be  no 
project-specific  transportation  effects,  including  the  contribution  to  the  2015  cumulative  traffic 
conditions  on  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the 
northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar  Chavez  Street,  the  southbound 
U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  San  Bruno  Avenue,  and  the  westbound  1-280  Freeway  on-ramp  at 
Alemany  Boulevard.  The  hazardous  materials  in  the  soil  would  remain  on  the  project  site.  Other 
less-than-significant  effects  described  in  the  Initial  Study,  including  generation  of  noise  during 
construction,  and  potential  disturbance  of  archeological  resources,  among  other  impacts,  would  not 
occur  with  this  alternative. 

Alternative  A  would  not  meet  any  of  the  project  sponsor's  objectives  (as  stated  on  page  25), 
including  the  development  of  a  standard  size  Home  Depot  home  improvement  store  for  San 
Francisco. 

If  this  alternative  were  selected  by  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Commission  and  a  different  proposal 
is  submitted  at  a  later  date  for  development  of  all  or  part  of  the  project  site,  that  proposal  would  be 
subject  to  a  separate  project-specific  environmental  review  under  the  requirements  of  CEQA. 


200 1 .0062  E  49 1  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


116 


July  28,  2005 


VI.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project 


ALTERNATIVE  B:  VARIANT  NO  PROJECT 
Description 

#  This  alternative  represents  one  possibility  of  what  could  be  expected  if  the  proposed  project  were  not 
approved.  The  two  existing  buildings  on  site  would  be  reused  for  retail/commercial  uses  as 
permitted  by  zoning  with  no  discretionary  approvals.  The  former  Goodman  Lumber  Company 
building  is  about  76,846  sq.ft.,  and  the  previous  Whole  Earth  Access  supply  store  is  approximately 
30,500  sq.ft.,  for  a  total  of  approximately  107,400  sq.ft.  In  this  alternative,  the  retail/commercial 
uses  would  presumably  be  one  or  two  large-scale  enterprises  similar  to  the  previous  uses  on  the  site 
and/or  proposed  uses  for  the  site.  It  is  assumed  that  the  buildings  would  comply  with  building  codes 
and  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Code  requirement  for  the  provision  of  off-street  parking  (which 
would  equate  to  347  spaces). 

Impacts 

#  Compared  to  the  proposed  project,  Alternative  B  would  have  less  intensive  environmental  effects  on 
transportation  and  parking,  population,  shadows,  construction  noise,  air  quality,  utilities  and  public 
services,  and  energy/natural  resources  because  of  its  smaller  size.  Alternative  B  would  generate 
approximately  6,316  weekday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  552  PM  peak  hour  vehicle-trips,  and 
approximately  8,222  Saturday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  789  midday  peak  hour  vehicle-trips  (about  a  35 
percent  reduction  from  the  proposed  project).1  The  operating  conditions  would  be  better  than  with 
the  project,  and  the  levels  of  congestion  at  the  key  intersections  studied  would  be  less  than  with  the 
proposed  project.  Tables  11  and  12  on  pages  118  and  119  show  a  comparison  of  the  transportation 
LOS  effects  of  each  alternative.  The  LOS  at  the  Bayshore/Jerrold/US  101  intersection,  for  example, 
would  remain  at  LOS  C  (rather  than  LOS  D  with  the  proposed  project)  during  the  weekday  PM  peak 
hour.  The  intersection  of  Mission  Street/Cortland  Avenue  would  still  need  to  have  a  signal  upgrade 
to  accommodate  the  growth  in  traffic  volumes  along  Mission  Street  in  2015.  The  traffic  improve- 
ment measures  that  are  part  of  the  proposed  project  would  not  occur  with  this  alternative.  These 
measures  include  traffic  signals  and  pedestrian  crosswalks  to  be  installed  at  Bayshore  Boulevard  and 
Cortland  Avenue,  a  left-turn  pocket  to  be  created  for  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  traffic  to  enter 


Based  on  an  estimate  of  13.5  person  trips  per  1,000  sq.ft.  of  retail  for  Weekday  PM  peak  hour,  and 
19.3  person  trips  per  1,000  sq.ft.  of  retail  space  for  Saturday  midday  per  the  San  Francisco  Planning 
Department,  Interim  Transportation  Impacts  Analysis  Guidelines  for  Environmental  Review,  January  2000. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


117 


July  28,  2005 


VI.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project 


V 

— 


> 

-J 

c 

o 

<u 
c 

■H 

I 


+ 

w 
c 


+ 


+ 
ox 
c 


c 


o 

a 

© 

"C 
a 

Q- 

E 
o 

U 


03 

+ 
Ml 


o 
u 
Ph 

+ 

Of 

e 


o 

< 
u 

s 


QOQUUUffl 


o\  \q  -  n  o\  vo 

od  in  cn  On  :  no 
cn  (N  rn  — i  <N  >— i 


DQQUUUW 


ON  CN  CN  O  SO  i/~>  ^ 
NO  in  O  OO        SO  _J 


UUQUUUCQ 


M»  n  V  ^  Cl 
^'  00  P-"  ^  NO 
(N  CN  <N  •— i  <N  >— i 


Q  Q  Q  U  U  O  OQ 


-h  oo  q  no  ^ 
no  iri  on  od  ^-  no  • 

CN  CN  CN        CN  — '  1 


QQQUQUffl 


r-;  "<t  O  i-H  — J  NO  ^ 

on  r-"  co  o  m'  no  „; 

IN    (N    t<l    N    N    rH  00 


UCQQUUUW 


ifl  ^  On  ifl  rH  ^  (s_ 

CN  — '  in  NO  no  .  ,-; 
CN  — i  CN  — '  CN  — i  ^ 


o 

00 


e  g 

TO 

-i-i  co 

?! 

o  o 

'/J  CO 
>N  >> 

ra  TO 

CQ  PQ 


ed 
T3 
>>  >^ 
TO    TO  TO 

PQ  pQ  O 


CQ  U  O  < 


NO 


oa  u  u  < 


r-  «  ON 


pa  u  u  < 


-h  <*}  «2  oo 


oa  u  o  < 


pa  o  o  ■  < 


pa  o  pa  <c 


cn  r- 


pa  o  cj 


pa  pa  u 


pa  pa  u 


pa  pq  o 


CN 


pa  o  u 


On  l1  v*. 
rs!  O  (N 
1     *->  CN 


pa  cj  pa 


O 


a>  -o 

>  e 

O  TO 

§  .2 

*I2  CO 

U  co 

o  B 


u  o  u  pa  Q  pp  pa 


NO   NO    NO   *?J"  ^J" 
CO 


r-  m  ■— 1  cn 

CO    CN  i-H 


oo 

od  m' 


u  q  cj  pa  q  pa  cq 


On  no  O  on  On 
no  i-J  i-3  CN  On 
— <  cn  CN  <— i  CN 


[>  CN 

od  in 


U  Q  O  CQ  Q  PQ  < 


cn  o  in  cn  in  ^ 

NO  O  O  CN  ON 


on  CN  <— i  CN 


oo  Tj- 


u  q  u  pa  q  pa  cq 


h  -i  oo  pi  oo  ^  rt 

NO  -h  ©  CN  On  rA  xA 
•— 1  c~i  CN  i— <  CN 


U  Q  U  CQ  Q  CJ  pa 


q  no  on  >n  no  ^  ^ 
oo  -st-  H  cn  o  ^ 
^  rn  CN  »*~t  m 


CJ  pq  U  PQ  Q  PQ  < 


■  oo  ^  •  .  no  m 
m      o  <n  on 

i-i        CN  ^  CN 


00  ^3" 


PQ  O  5 


<  Q  U  < 


o  no  rt 


<;  q  pa  < 


m    .  1  .  o 


<  Q  pa  <J 


>n  ^  ^  oo 


<  Q  pa  <; 


m  1  ^  o 


<  Q  CJ  < 


I  ^  - 

■*  £  s 


<  o  cq  < 


<n  ^ 

^c^2^ 


pq  pa  q 


-  so 
od  on  ^ 


pq  cq  q 


r-'  On* 


;  NO 
CN 


PQ  PQ  Q 


q  cn 

On 


PQ  PQ  CJ 


pq  pa  q 


pa  cq  u 


On 


>  (3 

O  TO 
T3 


t: 

-d  -o  > 
c  a  S 

TO    TO  .2 

u  u  S 


m 
o 
o 

CN 

g 
TO 


-2 
o 

CO 
CO 

< 

OQ 

o 

o 
on 


E 

as 


03 

00 


«  c 

2  S 

o  o 

Ui 

a 

■a 


.  f 


a. 
oo 
O 


2   5  3 


-a 

■—     1  U 

S  c  > 
&-2  2 

2  12 


o   n  cj 

■8  &.! 

■a  a  -a 

5^2 


2 

Ph 

-o 


'■B    a  S 


1J    M  « 


o 

y 


^  c  c 

CD  u  u 

*S  g  § 

O  00  00 

'5  o  o 

'■3  -O  -O 


0)  J£  — 
>-  V  u 
T3   "O  "O 


COO 
O  QJ 


conf 

c  c 

•a  -a 
v  u 

;  re 

N  N 

;ume: 

signa 

< 

c  c 

2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street  1 1 8  july  28, 2005 


VI.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project 


< 

UO 

O 

CS 


c 

o 
U 

E 

3 

o 

»H 
O 

*> 
•— 

CJ 

</3 


rH  a) 

9,  > 

u 

0) 


in 

o 
cm 


CO 

< 

U0 

o 

C4 


> 

C 


JS 

'$ 

UO 

1— I 
O 

CN 


6X 


ss 
o 

t/J 

'£ 
es 
a| 

S 

o 


"3 
a 


< 


Q  Q  Q  Q  Q  Q  U 


^  ^  1  ^  t  ^  ^ 
co  wo  vo  oo  vd  co 
co  co  co  co  co  CN  »— 1 


Q  Q  Q  Q  Q  Q  U 


vo  co  CN  ;  — <  wo 
co i  wo  vo  vd  CN 
co  co  co  co  co  CN  •— i 


PQQQPQU 


oo  -in  o\  o  ■>+  ts  vq 

co  wo  CN  -sf  vd  O 
CO  CO   CO  CO  CO  CN  '~H 


DQDOOQU 


r~;  cs  vq  o  — < 
co  wo  wo      ■st  cn 

CO  CO   CO  CO  CO  CN  f~* 


Q  Q  Q  Q  Q  Q  U 


o\  q  vi  *  h  o 
rn  vd  r~  o6      vd  •^j- 

CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CN  <— l 


UfflQUUUCQ 


wo  -sT  o\  wo  ^  — «  ^ 
cn      wo  vd  ^  vd  • 

CN  ' — '  CN  ^  CN  1 — i 


,2  « 

CO  o 

O  U 


2  w 

►5  "to 


CD    <D    <L>  CD 


O  O 


vi   (/]    n  V] 


cO  a3 

CQ  CQ 


<o  co 
CQ  CQ 


SE  O 
«?   °  ° 

"  S  «d 
^3  <d  ^ 

r*  CO 

CD    S  ^ 

CQ  O  hE 


CQ  O  Q  CQ 


.    .  cn 


CQ  U  Q  CQ 


°o  _ 
"i  S  cn 


CQ  O  Q  CQ 


i>  1  .    .  o 


CQ  U  Q  CQ 


r-  °°.  <=> 

"O  S  CN  ^ 


CQ  U  Q  CQ 


.    .  co 

"<2  8«o 


CQ  U  CQ  <! 


CQ  U  fa 


r-  © 
'  •  m  vo 


CQ  U  to 


oo  o 


CQ  U  to 


•  vo 
<»  ^  A 


CQ  O  te 


o  "1  © 


CQ  U 


VO  ^ 

^     T-l  A 


CQ  O  CQ 


o  ^t- 


§  .2 
o  -a 


o  u 


ex 


U  Q  U  CQ  Q  O  CQ 


VO  Tj-  i— i  co  CN 


>— "  OO 
CN  CO 


^  CS  ^  - 
CN         CO  ' — 1 


UQUfflDUffl 


CO  ^1"   O  CN  O  OO 


O  vo 
CN  CO 


w.  CN 

^t-  cn  co  o  w-; 

CN  —i  co  >-H  ^ 


U  Q  U  CQ  Q  U  CQ 


vq  vq  o  o  vq 

O  ^  CN  CN  CO  O 
CN  CO  CN  CO 


UQUfflQUffl 


o>  't      q  o 

O  WO  CO  CN  CO  i-* 
CN  CO  CN  — <  CO 


UQUfflQUffl 


VD  O  -t 


CN  CT\ 
CN  CO 


VD 

cn  wo  — • ' 

CN  ' — 1  CO  *— 1 


U  CQ  U  CQ  Q  CQ  < 


^  00  ^  .  .  vo  wo 
^        O  <N  Oj  ^  ^ 


-a  > 

5—  1- 

o  o 

C/3     «     W  C/3 


o  u 


o  o 

A  J3 


CQ  CQ 


co  ca 
CQ  CQ 


sis 

£  °  ° 
2  "3s  .S 

rS     CO  ^— 1 

""S3 

«  «  "2 
CQ  O 


<  U  U  < 


oo  1  i  1 :  vo 
^:      vo  ^ 

^  CN  CN  ^ 


<  U  CJ  < 


t  -  .  .  CN 
^  CN  CN  ^ 


<  U  Q  < 


<^  '"i  oo 


<uu< 


^  ^ 


<  Q  Q  < 


oo  -  !  1  :  r- 
^;  wo  ov  ^; 

CN  CN 


<  U  CQ  < 


CQ  Q  ta 


VO 
CN  A 


CQ  Q  fa 


o  °^  ° 

A 


CQ  O  fa 


^  ^  S 

_  ■  vo 


CQ  U  fa 


vo  ^  ° 
•  nn  VO 
°°  22  A 


CQ  Q  fa 


°°  ^  S 

A 


CQ  CQ  CJ 


to": 

>o  vo 


in  « 
(u  ~o 
>  a 
o  co 

§  .2 

CO 

U  CO 

o  a 
u  2 


CO 

o 
o 

CN 

o 


3 

.o 


3 

O 


E 
3 


03 

00 


<3  "S 

ii  c 


I5s 


CO  C3 


>,  B  B 
=5  c  c 
03    u  o 


D. 

O 


IS  ^ 

•5   13  T3 


E  5)  Si 

S  w  "w 

in  C  C 

<  D  D 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


119 


July  28,  2005 


VI.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project 


the  project  site,  and  just  north  of  the  project  site,  the  median  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  be  modified 
to  allow  northbound  traffic  to  make  U-turns. 

The  impacts  of  both  the  proposed  project  and  this  alternative  on  transit,  parking,  pedestrians, 
bicycles,  construction  traffic,  and  contribution  to  total  cumulative  traffic  volumes  would  be  less-than- 
significant.  This  alternative  would  make  a  smaller  contribution  to  the  growth  in  cumulative  traffic 
impacts  at  nearby  intersections  than  would  the  proposed  project,  however,  it  would  also  have  a 
significant  contribution  (more  than  five  percent  increase)  to  the  2015  cumulative  conditions  on  the 
northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the  southbound  U.S. 
101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on- 
ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar  Chavez  Street,  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  San 
Bruno  Avenue,  and  the  westbound  1-280  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard. 

In  those  environmental  areas  not  governed  by  height  or  bulk,  this  alternative  would  have  effects 
similar  to  the  proposed  project  on  land  use,  operation  noise,  biology,  geology/topography,  water,  and 
any  potential  hazardous  materials  would  remain  on  site.  It  is  assumed  that  this  alternative  would 
have  minimal  effect  on  archeological  cultural  resources  as  there  would  be  no  excavation.  In 
Alternative  B,  the  current  buildings  would  be  reused  and  there  would  be  little  change  in  the  existing 
visual  character  of  the  site. 

Alternative  B  would  not  have  a  significant  impact  on  air  quality,  unlike  the  proposed  project.  The 
effect  on  regional  air  quality  would  be  under  the  BAAQMD  threshold  for  significance.  This 
alternative,  however,  would  cause  increased  emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases,  nitrogen  oxides, 
particulates  and  carbon  monoxide  in  the  region,  though  these  increases  would  be  approximately 
thirty  percent  of  what  is  generated  by  the  proposed  project.  The  increases  would  be  less  than 
significant  relative  to  total  regional  emissions  of  these  pollutants. 

Alternative  B  would  generate  a  smaller  increase  in  employment  and  daily  population  than  the 
proposed  project.  The  population  effects  of  both  this  alternative  and  the  proposed  project  would  be 
less  than  significant. 

Alternative  B  would  not  meet  most  of  the  project  sponsor's  objectives  of  developing  a  standard  size 
Home  Depot  home  improvement  store  for  San  Francisco. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


120 


July  28,  2005 


VI.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project 


ALTERNATIVE  C:  60,000-SQUARE-FOOT  PROJECT 

This  alternative  is  included  in  response  to  comments  made  on  the  Initial  Study  that  requested  an 
analysis  of  a  home  improvement  store  smaller  than  the  previous  76,846  sq.-ft.  Goodman's  Lumber 
store. 

Description 

The  existing  buildings  on  the  site  would  be  demolished,  and  a  one-story  approximately  60,000  sq.-ft. 
home  improvement  store  would  be  constructed  with  an  adjacent  surface  parking  lot  containing 
approximately  350  parking  spaces.  The  store  would  include  housewares,  a  home  decorating  center, 
lumber  and  garden  plants.  The  parking  lot  would  be  accessible  from  Bayshore  Boulevard,  Waterloo 
Street  and  Loomis  Street.  The  main  entrance  to  the  store  would  be  from  the  parking  lot,  and  loading 
docks  would  be  accessible  on  Loomis  Street.  This  alternative  would  occupy  the  entire  site,  which 
would  preclude  the  opportunity  for  further  development  at  the  same  level  of  density  on  the  site  unless 
a  parking  structure  were  later  constructed. 

Impacts 

Compared  to  the  proposed  project,  Alternative  C  would  have  less  intensive  environmental  effects  on 
visual  quality  and  urban  design,  transportation  and  parking,  shadows,  construction  noise,  utilities  and 
public  services,  and  energy/natural  resources  because  of  its  smaller  size.  In  those  environmental 
areas  not  governed  by  height  or  bulk,  this  alternative  would  have  similar  effects  as  the  proposed 
project  on  land  use,  operation  noise,  biology,  geology/topography,  water,  hazards,  and  cultural 
resources. 

This  alternative  would  generate  a  smaller  increase  in  employment  and  daily  population  than  the 
proposed  project.  The  population  effects  of  both  this  alternative  and  the  proposed  project  would  be 
less-than-significant. 

The  visual  impacts  of  this  alternative,  during  both  day-  and  nighttimes,  would  be  correspondingly 
reduced  as  the  parking  would  be  on  a  surface  lot  and  the  building  would  be  approximately  twenty  to 
thirty  feet  in  height.  The  parking  lot,  however,  would  not  be  enclosed  and  would  be  visible  from  the 
street  as  well  as  from  portions  of  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


121 


July  28,  2005 


VI.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project 


Alternative  C  would  not  have  a  significant  impact  on  air  quality,  unlike  the  proposed  project.  This 
alternative,  however,  would  cause  increased  emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases,  nitrogen  oxides, 
particulates  and  carbon  monoxide  in  the  region,  though  these  increases  would  be  approximately 
thirty  percent  of  what  is  generated  by  the  project.  The  increases  would  be  less  than  significant 
relative  to  total  regional  emissions  of  these  pollutants,  and  would  be  below  the  BAAQMD's 
thresholds  of  significance. 

A  60,000  sq.-ft.  project  would  result  in  fewer  vehicle  and  transit  trips  than  the  proposed  project. 
Alternative  C  would  generate  approximately  4,059  weekday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  332  PM  peak 
hour  vehicle-trips,  and  approximately  4,202  Saturday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  497  midday  peak-hour 
vehicle  trips  (an  approximately  60  percent  reduction  from  the  proposed  project).  The  operating 
conditions  would  improve  compared  to  the  project  and  the  levels  of  congestion  at  the  key 
intersections  studied  would  be  less  than  that  of  the  proposed  project.  The  LOS  at  three  intersections: 
Bayshore/Jerrold/US  101,  Bayshore/Oakdale  and  Bayshore/Cortland,  would  remain  at  LOS  C  with 
this  alternative  (rather  than  LOS  D  with  the  proposed  project)  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour. 
The  intersection  of  Mission  Street/Cortland  Avenue  would  still  require  a  signal  upgrade  to 
accommodate  the  growth  in  traffic  volumes  along  Mission  Street. 

The  impacts  of  this  alternative  on  transit,  parking,  pedestrians,  bicycles,  construction  traffic,  and 
contribution  to  total  cumulative  traffic  volumes  would  be  less-than-significant,  except  for  the 
contribution  to  the  2015  cumulative  conditions  (more  than  five  percent  increase)  on  the  northbound 
U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street,  the  southbound  U.S.  101 
Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street,  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on- 
ramp  at  San  Bruno  Avenue,  and  the  westbound  1-280  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard,  all  of 
which  would  be  significant  impacts.  The  contribution  of  Alternative  C  to  the  northbound  U.S.  101 
Freeway  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar  Chavez  Street  would  be  less-than-significant.  This 
alternative  would  make  a  smaller  contribution  to  the  growth  in  cumulative  traffic  impacts  at  nearby 
intersections  than  would  the  proposed  project. 

CEQA  requires  that  the  EIR  identify  an  environmentally  superior  alternative  in  addition  to  the  No 
Project  Alternative.  This  alternative  would  have  fewer  impacts  than  the  proposed  project  and  the 


200I.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


122 


July  28,  2005 


VI.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project 

other  alternatives  discussed  above,  and  would  therefore,  be  considered  the  environmentally  superior 
alternative. 

This  alternative  would  not  meet  the  project  sponsor's  objectives  of  developing  a  standard  size  Home 
Depot  home  improvement  store  for  San  Francisco,  offering  a  full  range  of  home  improvement  items 
and  services.  Although  there  are  a  few  locations  in  the  United  States  (Brooklyn,  Staten  Island,  and 
Chicago)  where  Home  Depot  has  experimented  with  developing  home  improvement  stores  of  this 
size,  these  stores  do  not  carry  the  full  range  of  home  improvement  services  and  are  located  within  a 
close  proximity  to  full-size  Home  Depot  stores,  relying  on  those  stores  for  support  services.  The 
Home  Depot  store  in  Colma  is  not  close  enough  to  rely  on  for  support  services. 

ALTERNATIVE  D:  107,400-SQUARE-FOOT  PROJECT 
Description 

This  alternative  would  be  a  Home  Depot  store  similar  to  the  proposed  project  in  terms  of  building 
exterior  and  parking  garage,  however,  there  would  be  no  mezzanine  and  the  total  square  footage 
would  be  approximately  107,400  sq.ft.,  about  45,690  sq.ft.  less  than  the  proposed  project  (a  reduction 
of  approximately  thirty  percent).  There  would  be  a  ground  floor  area  about  the  same  size  as  the 
proposed  project  (approximately  96,250  sq.ft.),  no  second  level/mezzanine  sales  area,  a  smaller 
greenhouse  (about  5,604  sq.ft.  compared  to  9,888  sq.ft.  for  the  proposed  project),  and  a  smaller 
garden  center  (about  5,550  sq.ft.  compared  to  8,546  sq.ft.).  The  parking  garage  would  have  about 
385  parking  spaces  on  two  levels  (about  165  spaces  fewer  than  the  proposed  project).  The  exterior 
building  in  Alternative  D  would  be  similar  to  the  proposed  project. 

Impacts 

Most  of  the  potential  impacts  identified  for  the  proposed  project  would  occur  with  Alternative  D,  but 
at  a  lower  level.  This  alternative  would  still  demolish  the  two  existing  vacant  buildings  and  replace 
them  with  a  new  retail  building,  garden  center,  greenhouse  and  parking  garage.  Thus,  the  change  in 
land  use  would  be  the  same,  but  the  size  and  resultant  population  density  of  this  alternative  would  be 
approximately  one-third  less  than  the  proposed  project.  The  estimated  on-site  population  would  be 
about  122  to  138  employees  and  between  2,300  to  2,600  shoppers  per  day,  and  would  increase  the 
concentration  of  people  on  the  project  site. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


123 


July  28,  2005 


VI.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project 


The  reduced  employee  population  and  fewer  shoppers  would  translate  to  fewer  vehicle  trips,  both 
daily  and  PM  peak-hour  trips,  reduced  transit  demand,  and  reduced  parking  demand.  Alternative  D 
would  generate  approximately  7,266  weekday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  595  PM  peak  hour  vehicle- 
trips,  and  about  7,521  Saturday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  890  midday  peak  hour  vehicle-trips  (about  a 
30  percent  reduction  from  the  proposed  project).  This  reduction  in  vehicle-trips  could  result  in  a 
reduction  in  vehicle  delays  at  the  local  intersections  as  compared  to  the  project.  The  operating 
conditions  would  be  better  than  with  the  project,  and  the  levels  of  congestion  at  the  key  intersections 
studied  would  be  less  than  with  the  proposed  project.  The  LOS  at  the  Bayshore/Jerrold/US  101 
intersection,  for  example,  would  remain  at  LOS  C  (rather  than  LOS  D  with  the  proposed  project) 
during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour.  The  intersection  of  Mission  Street/Cortland  Avenue  would  still 
require  a  signal  upgrade  to  accommodate  the  growth  in  traffic  volumes  along  Mission  Street. 

Neither  the  project  nor  this  alternative  would  result  in  project-specific  significant  impacts  on  traffic 
flow,  however,  both  would  have  a  significant  unmitigable  contribution  to  the  2015  cumulative 
conditions  (more  than  five  percent  increase)  on  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at 
Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany 
Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar 
Chavez  Street,  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  San  Bruno  Avenue,  and  the  westbound 
1-280  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard. 

It  is  assumed  that  the  same  traffic  improvement  measures  as  the  proposed  project  would  be  included 
with  this  alternative:  traffic  signals  and  pedestrian  crosswalks  would  be  installed  at  Bayshore 
Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue,  a  left-turn  pocket  would  be  created  for  southbound  Bayshore 
Boulevard  traffic  to  enter  the  project  site,  and  just  north  of  the  project  site,  the  median  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard  would  be  modified  to  allow  northbound  traffic  to  make  U-turns. 

Alternative  D  would  not  have  a  significant  impact  on  air  quality,  unlike  the  proposed  project.  This 
alternative,  however,  would  cause  increased  emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases,  nitrogen  oxides, 

2 

Based  on  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trip  rate  of  5.54  vehicle  trips  per  1,000  sq.ft.,  and  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour  trip  rate  of  8.28  vehicle-trips  per  1 ,000  sq.ft.  Trip  rate  data  is  from  surveys  conducted  at 
four  Home  Depot  stores  in  California. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


124 


July  28,  2005 


VI.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project 


particulates  and  carbon  monoxide  in  the  region,  though  these  increases  would  be  approximately 
seventy  percent  of  what  is  generated  by  the  project.  The  increases  would  be  less  than  significant 
relative  to  total  regional  emissions  of  these  pollutants,  and  would  be  below  the  BAAQMD's 
thresholds  of  significance. 

The  public  services  demand  and  energy  consumption  under  this  alternative  would  be  roughly  seventy 
percent  that  of  the  proposed  project.  Operational  noise  would  be  about  the  same  as  the  proposed 
project.  Alternative  D's  effects  related  to  geology,  hydrology,  hazardous  materials,  and  potential 
subsurface  cultural  resources,  however,  would  be  comparable  to  those  of  the  proposed  project.  The 
height  of  the  parking  garage  would  be  one  level  lower  and  the  visual  effects  would  be  slightly  less 
than  the  proposed  project.  Construction  impacts  of  this  alternative  would  be  similar  to  those  of  the 
proposed  project,  though  somewhat  reduced  in  duration. 

This  alternative  would  meet  the  project  sponsor's  basic  objectives  of  constructing  a  standard-sized 
Home  Depot  home  improvement  store  within  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  although  it 
would  not  be  at  the  level  the  project  sponsor  would  prefer  to  offer  Home  Depot's  complete  range  of 
home  improvement  services  and  products,  including  a  garden  center  of  approximately  8,500  sq.ft.,  an 
enclosed  greenhouse  of  approximately  10,000  sq.ft.,  and  a  full  service  lumber  department. 

ALTERNATIVE  E:  140,000-SQUARE-FOOT  PROJECT 
Description 

This  alternative  would  also  be  a  Home  Depot  store  similar  to  the  proposed  project  in  terms  of 
building  exterior  and  parking  garage.  The  total  square  footage  would  be  approximately  140,000 
sq.ft.,  about  13,000  sq.ft.  less  than  the  proposed  project  (a  reduction  of  approximately  eight  and  a 
half  percent).  There  would  be  a  ground  floor  area  about  the  same  size  as  the  proposed  project 
(approximately  96,250  sq.ft.),  a  smaller  second  level/mezzanine  sales  area  (approximately  32,000 
sq.ft.  compared  to  38,405  sq.ft.  for  the  proposed  project),  a  smaller  greenhouse  (about  7,000  sq.ft. 
compared  to  9,888  sq.ft.  for  the  proposed  project),  and  a  smaller  garden  center  (about  4,839  sq.ft. 
compared  to  8,546  sq.ft.).  The  parking  garage  would  have  about  500  parking  spaces  on  two  levels 
plus  rooftop  (about  50  spaces  fewer  than  the  proposed  project).  The  exterior  building  in  Alternative 
E  would  be  similar  to  the  proposed  project. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


125 


July  28,  2005 


VI.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project 


Impacts 

•  Alternative  E  is  the  maximum  size  project  that  would  avoid  potentially  significant  air  quality  impacts 
of  emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases.  Most  of  the  other  potential  impacts  identified  for  the 
proposed  project  would  occur  with  Alternative  D,  but  at  a  slightly  lower  level.  This  alternative 
would  still  demolish  the  two  existing  vacant  buildings  and  replace  them  with  a  new  retail  building, 
garden  center,  greenhouse  and  parking  garage.  Thus,  the  change  in  land  use  would  be  the  same,  but 
the  size  and  resultant  population  density  of  this  alternative  would  be  approximately  eight  and  a  half 
percent  less  than  the  proposed  project.  The  estimated  daily  on-site  population  would  be  about  149  to 
180  employees  and  between  2,400  to  2,700  shoppers  per  day,  and  would  increase  the  concentration 
of  people  on  the  project  site. 

•  Alternative  E  would  generate  approximately  9,480  weekday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  776  PM  peak 
hour  vehicle-trips,  and  approximately  9,796  Saturday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  1,159  midday  peak  hour 
vehicle-trips  (about  a  10  percent  reduction  from  the  proposed  project).  This  small  reduction  in 
vehicle-trips  could  result  in  a  equivalent  reduction  in  vehicle  delays  at  the  local  intersections  as 
compared  to  the  project.  The  operating  conditions  would  be  about  the  same  as  the  project,  and  the 
levels  of  congestion  at  the  key  intersections  studied  would  be  similar  to  the  proposed  project.  The 
exception  in  LOS  would  be  at  the  Bayshore/Jerrold/US  101  intersection,  which  would  remain  at  LOS 
C  (rather  than  LOS  D  with  the  proposed  project)  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour.  The 
intersection  of  Mission  Street/Cortland  Avenue  would  still  require  a  signal  upgrade  to  accommodate 
the  growth  in  traffic  volumes  along  Mission  Street. 

Neither  the  project  nor  this  alternative  would  result  in  project-specific  significant  impacts  on  traffic 
flow,  however,  both  would  have  a  significant  unmitigable  contribution  to  the  2015  cumulative 
conditions  (more  than  five  percent  increase)  on  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at 
Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany 
Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the  northbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar 
Chavez  Street,  the  southbound  U.S.  101  Freeway  on-ramp  at  San  Bruno  Avenue,  and  the  westbound 
1-280  Freeway  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard. 

It  is  assumed  that  the  same  traffic  improvement  measures  as  the  proposed  project  would  be  included 
with  this  alternative:  traffic  signals  and  pedestrian  crosswalks  would  be  installed  at  Bayshore 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


126 


July  28,  2005 


VI.  Alternatives  to  the  Proposed  Project 


Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue,  a  left-turn  pocket  would  be  created  for  southbound  Bayshore 
Boulevard  traffic  to  enter  the  project  site,  the  northbound  Bayshore  left-turn  pocket  would  be 
lengthened,  and  just  north  of  the  project  site,  the  median  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  be  modified 
to  allow  northbound  traffic  to  make  U-Turns. 

Alternative  E  would  cause  increased  emissions  of  nitrogen  oxides,  particulates  and  carbon  monoxide 
in  the  region,  though  these  increases  would  be  approximately  eight  and  a  half  percent  less  than  that 
generated  by  the  proposed  project.  The  increases  would  be  less  than  significant  relative  to  total 
regional  emissions  of  these  pollutants,  and  would  be  below  the  BAAQMD's  thresholds  of 
significance. 

The  public  services  demand  and  energy  consumption  under  this  alternative  would  be  roughly  91.5 
percent  than  that  of  the  proposed  project.  Operational  noise  would  be  about  the  same  as  the  proposed 
project.  Alternative  E's  effects  related  to  visual  quality,  geology,  hydrology,  hazardous  materials, 
and  potential  subsurface  cultural  resources,  however,  would  be  comparable  to  those  of  the  proposed 
project.  Construction  impacts  of  this  alternative  would  also  be  similar  to  those  of  the  proposed 
project. 

This  alternative  would  meet  the  project  sponsor's  basic  objectives  of  constructing  a  standard-sized 
Home  Depot  home  improvement  store  within  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  although  it 
would  not  be  at  the  level  the  project  sponsor  would  prefer  to  offer  Home  Depot's  complete  range  of 
home  improvement  services  and  products,  including  a  garden  center  of  approximately  8,500  sq.ft.,  an 
enclosed  greenhouse  of  approximately  10,000  sq.ft.,  and  a  full  service  lumber  department. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


127 


July  28,  2005 


2001 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


128  July  28,  2005 


VII.  COMMENTS  AND  RESPONSES 


Table  of  Contents 

Page 

A.  INTRODUCTION  C&R.  1 

B.  PREFERRED  PLAN  C&R.3 

Description  C&R.  3 

Impacts  C&R.6 

C.  LIST  OF  PERSONS  COMMENTING  C&R.  15 

D.  COMMENTS  AND  RESPONSES  C&R.20 

Project  Description  C&R.20 

Objectives  C&R.43 

Project  Approvals  C&R.51 

Land  Use,  General  Plan  Compliance,  and  Zoning  C&R.57 

Land  Use  C&R.  5  7 

General  Plan  C&R.  64 

Other  Plans  and  Policies  C&R.74 

Zoning   C&R.80 

Employment  C&R.81 

Urban  Design   C&R. 87 

Transportation   C&R.  91 

Data  Sources  and  Methodology  C&R.91 

Traffic  Calming  Study  C&R.  1 14 

Traffic  Analysis  :  C&R.  1 17 

General  C&R.  117 

Cortland  Avenue  C&R.  1 3 1 

Bayshore  Boulevard  C&R.  184 

Freeway  Ramps  C&R.  1 87 

Pedestrians  C&R.  194 

Bicycles  C&R.201 

Parking  C&R.205 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Lootnis  Street 


129 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 


Page 


Transportation  (continued) 

Loading  C&R.215 

Transit   C&R.218 

Cumulative  Impacts  C&R.226 

Other  Transportation  Issues  C&R.236 

Air  Quality  C&R250 

Noise  C&R.287 

Hazards  and  Hazardous  Materials  C&R.289 

Soils  and  Seismicity  C&R.291 

Cultural  Resources  C&R.296 

Growth  Inducement  C&R.298 

Mitigation  and  Improvement  Measures  C&R.305 

Alternatives  C&R.319 

Other  Issues....  C&R.331 

Business  Displacement  C&R.331 

Property  Values  C&R.332 

Project  Sponsor  Employment  Practices  C&R.336 

Availability  of  Information  C&R.339 

Public  Health  C&R.339 

Other  Concerns  C&R.341 

Opposition  to  the  Proposed  Project  C&R.344 

Support  for  the  Proposed  Project  C&R.351 

E.        STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  AND  ERRATA  C&R.358 


2001 .0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


130 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 


LIST  OF  FIGURES 

Page 

C&R.  1  Preferred  Site  Plan  -  Option  F  C&R.5 

C&R.2  View  of  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Waterloo  Street  Frontage 

Looking  Northeast  C&R21 

C&R.3  View  of  the  Loomis  Street  Frontage  Looking  North  C&R.22 

C&R.4  View  of  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  Frontage  Looking  Southeast  C&R.23 

C&R. 5  View  Looking  East  on  Cortland  Avenue  C&R.24 

C&R.6  Site  Plan  (Revised  EIR  Figure  2)  C&R27 

C&R.7  Parking  Garage-Ground  Floor  C&R.28 

C&R.8  Project  Location  (Revised  EIR  Figure  1)  C&R.30 

C&R.9  Zoning  Districts  (Revised  EIR  Figure  7)  C&R.3 1 

C&R.  10  Roadway  Network  and  Intersections  Analysis  Locations 

(Revised  EIR  Figure  10)  C&R. 32 

C&R.  1 1  Existing  Transit  Network  (Revised  EIR  Figure  11)  C&R.33 

C&R.  1 2  Bemal  Heights  Special  Use  District  C&R.68 

C&R.  13  Site  Plan  -  Option  A  C&R.  154 

C&R.  14  Site  Plan  -  Option  B  C&R.155 

C&R.  15  Site  Plan  -  Option  C  C&R.  156 

C&R.  16  Site  Plan  -  Option  D  C&R.  157 

C&R.  17  Site  Plan  -  Option  E  C&R.  158 

C&R.  18  Site  Plan  -  Option  F  C&R.  159 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


131 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 


LIST  OF  TABLES 

Page 

C&R.  1  Square  Footages  and  Number  of  Parking  Spaces 

of  Home  Depot  Stores  in  the  Bay  Area  C&R.50 

C&R. 2  Trip  Distribution  Comparisons  by  Superdistrict  C&R.  101 

C&R.3  Summary  of  Access  Option  Configurations  C&R.  153 

C&R.4  Intersection  Operations  Analysis  Results  for  the  Proposed  Project 

Weekday  PM  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours  C&R.  161 

C&R.5  Intersection  Operations  Analysis  Results  for  Circulation  Option  A 

Weekday  PM  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours  C&R.  162 

C&R.6  Intersection  Operations  Analysis  Results  for  Circulation  Option  B 

Weekday  PM  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours  C&R.  163 

C&R.7  Intersection  Operations  Analysis  Results  for  Circulation  Option  C 

Weekday  PM  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours  C&R.  165 

C&R.8  Intersection  Operations  Analysis  Results  for  Circulation  Option  D 

Weekday  PM  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours  C&R.  166 

C&R.9  Intersection  Operations  Analysis  Results  for  Circulation  Option  E 

Weekday  PM  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours  C&R.  166 

C&R.  10         Intersection  Operations  Analysis  Results  for  Circulation  Option  F 

Weekday  PM  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours  C&R.  167 

C&R.  1 1  Results  for  Option  A  -  Southbound  Left-Turn 

to  Cortland  Driveway  C&R.  169 

C&R.  12  Results  for  Option  B  -  Eastbound  Left-Turn 

from  Industrial  to  Loomis  C&R.  172 

C&R.  1 3  Results  for  Option  C  -  Eastbound  Left-Turn 

from  Industrial  to  Loomis  C&R.  174 

C&R.  1 4  Results  for  Option  D  -  Southbound  Left-Turn 

to  Bayshore  Driveway  C&R.  175 

C&R.  15  Results  for  Option  E  -  Southbound  Left-Turn 

to  Bayshore  Driveway  C&R.  177 

C&R.  1 6         Results  for  Option  F  -  Southbound  Left-Turn 

to  Bayshore  Driveway  C&R.  179 

C&R.  1 7  Square  Footage  and  Number  of  Parking  Spaces  for 

Bay  Area  Home  Depot  Stores  Opened  between  2000  and  2004  C&R.21 1 

C&R.  1 8  Federal  and  State  Ambient  Air  Quality  Standards  C&R.256 

C&R.  1 9  San  Francisco  Air  Pollutant  Summary,  1 998-200 1 

(Revised  DEIR  Table  8)  C&R.259 

C&R.20  Comparison  of  Trip  Generation 

for  Proposed  Project  and  Project  Alternatives  C&R. 3 23 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  132  July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

INTRODUCTION 

A.  INTRODUCTION 

This  chapter  contains  summaries  of  the  public  comments  received  on  the  Draft  Environmental 
Impact  Report  (EIR)  prepared  for  the  proposed  491  Bayshore  Boulevard/ 196  Loomis  Street  project, 
and  responses  to  those  comments. 

All  substantive  comments  made  at  the  Draft  EIR  public  hearing  before  the  Planning  Commission  on 
July  10,  2003,  and  received  during  the  Draft  EIR  public  review  period  from  March  29,  2003,  to  July 
11,  2003,  are  presented  herein  by  direct  quotation,  edited  to  delete  repetition  and  nonsubstantive 
material  only.  Minor  edits  may  have  been  made  to  the  public  hearing  transcript  for  clarification. 
Editorial  changes  to  the  comments  are  indicated  by  square  brackets. 

Comments  and  responses  are  grouped  by  subject  matter  and  are  arranged  by  topic  corresponding  to 
the  Table  of  Contents  in  the  Draft  EIR.  Each  group  of  comments  is  followed  by  its  set  of  responses; 
the  order  of  the  responses  under  each  topic  follows  the  order  of  the  comments.  As  the  subject  matter 
of  one  topic  may  overlap  that  of  other  topics,  the  reader  must  occasionally  refer  to  more  than  one 
group  of  comments  and  responses  to  review  all  information  on  a  given  subject.  Where  this  occurs, 
cross-references  are  provided.  The  order  of  the  comments  from  a  particular  letter  may  vary  from  that 
of  the  original.  All  comment  letters  and  the  transcript  of  the  public  hearing  on  the  491  Bayshore 
Boulevard  Home  Depot  project  are  presented  in  their  entirety  in  Appendices  E  and  F,  respectively. 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  Comments  and  Responses  component  of  the  environmental  review  process 
is  intended  to  respond  to  comments  on  the  adequacy  of  the  approach  and  analysis  in  a  Draft  EIR. 
Comments  regarding  the  merits  of  and  concerns  about  the  project  should  be  directed  to  the  Planning 
Commission  to  assist  with  its  decision  of  whether  or  not  to  approve  the  project,  a  decision  that  will 
be  made  at  a  public  hearing  subsequent  to  certification  (determination  of  completeness)  of  the  Final 
EIR.  In  order  to  approve  the  project,  the  Planning  Commission  would  be  required  to  adopt  a 
Statement  of  Overriding  Considerations,  as  required  by  the  California  Environmental  Quality  Act 
(CEQA),  to  explain  the  greater  public  good  that  would  be  achieved  despite  the  significant 
unavoidable  impacts  that  would  occur  as  identified  in  the  EIR.  Some  comments  do  not  pertain  to 
physical  environmental  issues,  but,  in  some  instances,  responses  are  included  to  provide  additional 
information  for  use  by  decision-makers. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.l 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

INTRODUCTION 


These  comments  and  responses  have  been  incorporated  into  this  Final  EIR  as  a  new  chapter.  Text 
changes  resulting  from  comments  and  responses  also  have  been  incorporated  into  the  EIR,  as 
indicated  in  the  responses  and  in  Section  E  of  this  chapter,  Staff-Initiated  Text  Changes  and  Errata. 
Additions  to  text  in  the  EIR  are  shown  in  bold,  deletions  are  shown  in  strikethrough,  except  where 
the  text  is  indicated  as  entirely  new,  in  which  case  no  bold  is  used  for  easier  reading. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshorc/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.2 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PREFERRED  PLAN 

B.  PREFERRED  PLAN 

Subsequent  to  the  publication  of  the  DEIR  on  March  29,  2003,  the  project  sponsor  identified  a  new 
garage  access  plan  that  would  relocate  the  currently  proposed  parking  garage  to  the  northern  section 
of  the  project  site.  This  new  access  plan,  called  Option  F,  would  have  16  more  parking  spaces  than 
the  proposed  garage  already  presented  in  the  DEIR  (555  compared  to  539).  A  description  of  Option 
F,  which  is  the  sponsor's  preferred  plan,  and  an  assessment  of  its  environmental  impacts  are 
presented  in  this  section. 

Designation  of  Option  B  does  not  require  recirculation  of  the  DEIR.  CEQA  requires  the  recirculation 
of  a  DEIR  after  the  close  of  the  public  review  period,  prior  to  certification  of  the  Final  EIR,  if 
"significant  new  information"  is  added  to  the  DEIR.  The  CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15088.5  notes, 
as  examples  of  "significant  new  information,"  a  new  project  alternative,  which  is  considerably 
different  from  others  previously  analyzed,  that  clearly  would  lessen  the  environmental  impacts  for 
the  project  but  that  the  project's  proponents  decline  to  adopt;  the  disclosure  of  a  new  significant 
environmental  impact  from  the  project  or  from  new  mitigation  measures;  or  a  substantial  increase  in 
the  severity  of  an  environmental  impact  that  is  not  mitigated  to  a  level  of  insignificance.  A 
comparison  of  the  assessment  of  Option  F,  described  below,  to  the  assessment  of  the  original  project 
garage  as  analyzed  in  the  DEIR,  demonstrates  that  the  impacts  associated  with  Option  F  would  be 
similar  to  the  impacts  associated  with  the  original  project.  The  project  proponents  would  be  willing 
to  adopt  Option  F,  as  indicated  by  its  designation  as  the  project  sponsor's  preferred  plan.  In  addition, 
Option  F  would  have  no  new  significant  impacts  not  identified  in  the  DEIR,  and  all  mitigation 
measures  identified  in  the  DEIR,  the  Initial  Study,  and  this  Comments  and  Responses  chapter  would 
remain  the  same.  The  public  has  been  afforded  the  opportunity  to  review  and  comment  on  this  new 
preferred  plan  as  part  of  this  document  at  the  Planning  Commission  hearing  on  the  certification  of  the 
EIR.  For  the  reasons  stated  above,  the  designation  of  Option  F  as  the  preferred  plan  does  not  meet 
the  standard  of  "significant  new  information"  as  defined  by  CEQA. 

Description 

The  parking  garage  would  be  relocated  to  the  northern  section  of  the  project  site  (similar  to 
configuration  with  the  old  Goodman's  Lumber)  (Figure  C&R  1,  page  C&R.5).  Primary  vehicular 
access  for  customers/employees  would  be  located  on  the  east  side  of  Bayshore  Boulevard 
(approximately  700  feet  north  of  Cortland  Avenue)  and  on  Loomis  Street.    Left-turns  from 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.3 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PREFERRED  PLAN 


southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  main  Bayshore  Boulevard  driveway,  and  left-turns  from  the 
Bayshore  Boulevard  driveway  to  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  be  permitted.  Secondary 
access  would  also  be  provided  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  (right-turn  in  and  right-turn  out  only)  and  on 
Loomis  Street.  Option  F  would  require  the  establishment  of  a  new  southbound  left-turn  pocket 
within  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  median  for  access  to  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  driveway  and  a  new 
traffic  signal  at  the  new  intersection  created  for  Home  Depot  access.  In  addition,  a  new  crosswalk 
would  be  established  at  the  south  side  of  the  intersection  with  a  pedestrian-activated  signal  walk 
phase.  The  new  traffic  signal,  improved  cross  walk  and  lengthening  of  the  northbound  left  turn 
pocket  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cortland  Avenue  originally  proposed  for  the  project  analyzed  in  the 
DEIR  would  not  be  part  of  the  Option  F  plan. 

The  Option  F  plan  would  still  be  a  two-story  building  that  would  contain  approximately  95,582  sq.ft 
on  the  main  floor  (compared  to  the  approximately  96,250  sq.ft.  for  the  original  project  discussed  in 
the  DEIR).  There  would  be  approximately  37,670  sq.ft.  on  the  second  floor  (compared  to 
approximately  38,405  sq.ft.  for  the  original  project),  and  an  approximately  9,949  sq.-ft.  outdoor 
garden  center  (compared  to  8,546  sq.ft.  for  the  original  project)  plus  a  9,888  sq.-ft.,  enclosed 
greenhouse  (same  size  as  the  original  project).  The  total  square  footage  of  the  store  and  the  height 
would  be  approximately  the  same  as  the  project  analyzed  in  the  DEIR,  153,089  sq.ft. 

Option  F  would  contain  555  parking  spaces  compared  to  539  in  the  proposed  project.  There  would 
be  approximately  182  spaces  on  the  ground  level,  1 19  spaces  on  the  second  level  and  254  spaces  on 
the  third  level,  which  would  be  about  16  spaces  more  than  with  the  proposed  project  analyzed  in  the 
DEIR.  The  parking  garage  would  be  approximately  247,800  sq.ft,  and  the  total  Option  F  plan  garage 
and  store  would  be  400,889  sq.ft.  (compared  to  the  235,597  sq.-ft.  proposed  project  garage  and 
388,686  sq.-ft.  total  project  discussed  in  the  DEIR). 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.4 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 


PREFERRED  PLAN 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.5 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PREFERRED  PLAN 

The  main  entrance  to  the  store  would  be  on  the  north  side  of  the  building  on  the  ground  level.  There 
would  be  another  entrance  on  the  garage's  second  level,  which  accesses  the  mezzanine  area  of  the 
store.  Customers  would  access  the  proposed  store  through  the  garage,  primarily  for  convenience  as 
well  as  security.  The  garden  center  and  the  greenhouse  would  be  at  the  southwest  coiner  of  the 
project  site  with  access  only  from  the  main  store. 

There  would  be  separate  pedestrian  access  points  to  the  store  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Loomis 
Street  at  the  south  end  of  the  garage  adjacent  to  the  proposed  store.  Pedestrians  would  access  the 
walkway,  at  the  north  end  of  the  store,  and  enter  the  store  through  the  same  entrance  as  all  customers. 
Due  to  a  grade  difference  of  approximately  four  to  six  feet  from  the  first  level  of  the  store  down  to 
Loomis  Street,  there  would  be  stairs  connecting  to  the  pedestrian  walkway. 

In  common  with  the  proposed  project,  there  would  be  a  "seasonal  sales  area"  in  the  ground  floor 
parking  area  that  would  occupy  approximately  26  parking  spaces  for  a  duration  of  about  one  week 
four  to  six  times  a  year,  except  during  December  when  the  area  would  be  used  for  the  sale  of 
Christmas  trees  for  about  three  weeks. 

The  loading  facilities  would  be  relocated  to  the  southern  end  of  the  project  site.  With  this  location, 
delivery  vehicles  would  enter  the  loading  area  from  Waterloo  Street  and  exit  to  Loomis  Street  (as 
compared  to  entering  from  Loomis  Street  and  exiting  to  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  with  the 
proposed  project).  Delivery  vehicles  entering  the  loading  area  would  access  Waterloo  Street  from 
northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard,  whereas  vehicles  exiting  the  loading  area  would  turn  left  onto 
northbound  Loomis  Street  to  access  Oakdale  Avenue  and  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

Impacts 

The  Initial  Study  prepared  for  the  original  proposed  project  determined  that  impacts  in  the  following 
areas  would  be  less-than-significant:  population,  visual  quality  and  urban  design,  housing,  glare, 
shadow,  wind,  noise,  utilities/public  services,  biology,  geology/topography,  water,  and 
energy/natural  resources.  The  Initial  Study  found  that  impacts  that  relate  to  land  use,  transportation, 
air  quality,  hazardous  materials,  archeological  resources,  and  growth  inducement  have  been 
determined  to  be  potentially  significant.  The  impacts  of  Option  F  are  discussed  below. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.6 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PREFERRED  PLAN 

Land  Use,  Zoning,  and  Plan  Consistency 

The  proposed  project  with  the  Option  F  plan  would  have  similar  land  use  characteristics  as  the 
proposed  project.  The  project  site  is  within  an  M-l  (Light  Industrial)  Zoning  District  and  a  65-J 
Height  and  Bulk  District.  The  project  with  the  Option  F  plan  would  be  a  permitted  use. 

The  proposed  project  as  well  as  the  Option  F  plan  would  be  a  large  development  containing  some  of 
the  previous  uses  on  the  site,  and  would  increase  the  density  of  uses,  number  of  customers  and 
amount  of  vehicles  on  the  site.  Similar  to  the  proposed  project,  the  Option  F  plan  would  not 
essentially  change  the  existing  retail/light  industrial  character  or  physical  arrangement  of  the  area. 
The  use  would  be  generally  compatible  with  the  mix  of  surrounding  commercial  and  industrial  uses 
in  a  dense  urban  area.  The  land  use  impact  of  the  Option  F  plan  would  be  less-than-significant. 

Visual  Quality  and  Urban  Design 

The  proposed  project  with  the  Option  F  plan  would  have  similar  impacts  on  visual  quality  and  urban 
design  as  the  proposed  project  analyzed  in  the  DEIR.  There  would  still  be  two  separate  structures 
(store  and  garage)  that  are  attached,  and  the  visual  change  on  the  street  level  would  be  similar.  The 
view  of  the  project  looking  east  on  Cortland  Avenue  (Figure  C&R.5,  on  page  C&R.24)  would  be 
different  than  the  original  project  as  the  view  would  be  of  the  store  and  would  not  show  the  garage 
entrance  since  it  would  be  moved  to  the  north.  However,  the  view  change  would  not  be  significant. 
The  view  of  the  garage  would  be  more  noticeable  from  some  residences  on  Bernal  Heights  that  have 
views  to  the  southeast.  The  height  of  the  rooftop  parking  level  would  be  about  the  same  or  lower 
than  the  adjacent  freeways,  which  are  at  a  higher  elevation. 

Option  F  would  also  contain  rooftop  trellis  that  would  be  angled  inward  towards  the  parking  garage, 
and  would  be  designed  to  provide  screening  for  the  Bernal  Heights  residents.  There  would  be  a  four- 
foot-high  solid  wall  around  the  perimeter  of  the  rooftop  parking  level  to  prevent  vehicle  car 
headlights  from  shining  directly  into  any  residences.  In  common  with  the  original  proposal,  there 
would  be  rooftop  landscaping  including  trees  in  planter  boxes  to  provide  further  screening. 

The  impacts  of  visual  quality  and  urban  design,  and  views  of  Option  F  would  be  similar  to  the 
proposed  project  in  the  DEIR  and  would  not  be  significant. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.7 


July  28. 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PREFERRED  PLAN 

Transports  tion 

In  general,  the  transportation  impacts  of  the  Option  F  plan  would  be  similar  to  the  impacts  of  the 
proposed  project  analyzed  in  the  DEIR.  The  location  of  the  primary  access  point  for  the  project  to 
the  north  of  Cortland  Avenue  would  not  substantially  affect  the  volume  of  traffic  that  would  use 
Cortland  Avenue.  Cortland  Avenue  is  one  of  the  few  east/west  streets  in  the  area,  with  Cesar  Chavez 
Street  to  the  north  of  Bemal  Heights  and  Alemany  Boulevard,  Crescent  Avenue,  and  Silver  Avenue 
to  the  south  of  Bernal  Heights.  As  a  result,  Cortland  Avenue  would  be  the  most  direct  route  for 
vehicles  traveling  to  and  from  the  project  site  from  specific  locations  in  San  Francisco,  such  as 
Bernal  Heights,  and  would  also  provide  connections  to  the  nearby  Glen  Park,  Diamond  Heights, 
Balboa  Park  and  outer  Noe  Valley  neighborhoods.  For  access  between  the  project  site  and  the  rest  of 
San  Francisco,  other  routes  would  be  more  direct  and  convenient.  However,  since  the  Option  F  main 
driveway  would  be  located  further  north  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  than  with  the  proposed  project,  and 
vehicles  would  be  required  to  turn  from  Cortland  Avenue  instead  of  driving  straight  into  and  out  of 
the  parking  garage,  it  is  likely  that  with  Option  F  there  may  be  a  minor  shift  in  traffic  volumes  to 
Cesar  Chavez  Street  or  Alemany  Boulevard. 

With  the  Option  F  plan,  a  new  southbound  left-turn  would  be  established  from  Bayshore  Boulevard 
to  the  north  end  of  the  project  site,  and  would  require  the  installation  of  a  new  traffic  signal  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard  and  crosswalk  with  a  pedestrian-activated  crossing  signal  phase  to  allow  for  safe 
pedestrian  access  to  the  Jack-in-the-Box  restaurant  on  the  west  side  of  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

At  the  location  where  the  proposed  left-turn  pocket  would  be  located,  the  center  median  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard  is  currently  a  fixed  solid  median  (left-turns  are  not  possible).  The  establishment  of  the 
left-turn  pocket  would  not  restrict  access  to  any  business  establishments  on  the  east  side  of  the  street. 
However,  on  the  west  side  of  the  street,  there  are  driveways  for  a  Jack-in-the-Box  restaurant  that 
would  be  restricted  to  right-turn  in  only  and  right-turn  out  (to  and  from  southbound  Bayshore 
Boulevard).  Vehicles  destined  to  and  from  the  Jack-in-the  Box  from  northbound  Bayshore 
Boulevard  would  need  to  make  U-turns  within  the  center  left-turn  median  north  of  the  restaurant  and 
the  proposed  project. 

Option  F  would  provide  two  driveways  on  Bayshore  Boulevard:  a  right-turn  in/right-turn  out 
driveway  for  northbound  traffic  at  the  southern  end  of  the  garage,  and  a  full  driveway  (with  all 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.8 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PREFERRED  PLAN 


movements  allowed)  at  the  northern  end  of  the  garage.  The  southern  driveway  would  be  designed  so 
that  vehicles  would  not  be  able  to  turn  left  to  or  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  northern 
driveway  would  have  over  250  feet  of  storage  space  between  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  the  garage 
up/down  ramp,  which  would  be  sufficient  storage  space  to  accommodate  queues  that  would  form  at 
the  entrance  and  exit.  It  is  anticipated  that  Option  F  would  have  a  minimal  affect  to  traffic  and  transit 
operations  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  similar  to  the  proposed  project. 

The  transportation  study  in  the  DEIR  performed  for  the  proposed  project  reviewed  conditions  at  five 
freeway  on-ramps  and  fourteen  key  intersections  (signalized  and  stop-sign  controlled)  in  the  vicinity 
of  the  project  site.  A  supplemental  transportation  assessment  was  prepared  for  the  Option  F  plan  and 
is  discussed  in  Response  #74,  pages  C&R.149  to  C&R.182. 

In  common  with  the  proposed  project,  the  addition  of  the  vehicle-trips  generated  by  the  proposed 
project  with  the  Option  F  plan  would  not  change  the  operating  conditions  at  the  study  locations  for 
either  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  or  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  analyses.  All  analysis  freeway 
on-ramps  would  continue  to  operate  at  the  same  levels  of  service  as  under  existing  conditions. 

Although  the  overall  levels  of  service  would  remain  similar  to  existing  conditions,  the  increase  in 
vehicles  destined  to  and  from  the  project  site  with  the  Option  F  plan  would  result  in  a  moderate 
increase  in  delay  at  individual  movements  at  several  study  intersections  (similar  to  the  proposed 
project  analyzed  in  the  DEIR).  Vehicles  making  these  movements  may  experience  somewhat  higher 
delays  than  vehicles  at  the  intersection  as  a  whole,  but  these  impacts  would  not  be  enough  to 
constitute  significant  impacts.  The  increase  in  delay  at  these  individual  movements  would  not  result 
in  the  intersection  operating  at  unacceptable  service  levels.  In  addition,  the  proposed  project  with  the 
Option  F  plan  would  also  result  in  increases  in  traffic  volumes  at  several  movements  at  the  study 
intersections.  The  increased  volume  would  not  increase  the  average  delay  per  vehicle  at  the 
individual  movements  or  the  intersections  as  a  whole.  There  would  be  improved  conditions  at  the 
intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  (Level  of  Service  (LOS)  B  as  compared  to  LOS  D  with  the 
proposed  project  analyzed  in  the  DEIR). 

Overall,  all  study  intersections  and  freeway  on-ramps  under  Option  F  would  operate  similar  to  or 
better  than  the  proposed  project  conditions  analyzed  in  the  DEIR.  Option  F  would  not  result  in  any 
new  traffic  impacts.  By  the  year  2015,  cumulative  traffic,  however,  would  result  in  an  increase  in 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.9 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PREFERRED  PLAN 

congestion  on  U.S.  101,  1-280  and  the  nearby  on-ramps.  The  increase  in  cumulative  traffic  would 
cause  all  five  study  on-ramp  locations  to  operate  at  LOS  F  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and 
two  of  the  on-ramp  locations  to  operate  at  LOS  F  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  The  new 
vehicle-trips  generated  by  Option  F  would  be  the  same  as  the  project  analyzed  in  the  DEIR.  The 
contribution  to  the  poor  on-ramp  conditions  would  be  considered  a  significant  unavoidable 
cumulative  impact. 

For  the  cumulative  traffic  conditions  in  the  year  2015,  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  the  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour  study  intersections  in  the  DEIR  would  all  operate  acceptably  (LOS  D  or  better), 
except  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland,  which  would  operate  at  LOS  F.  In  common  with  the 
proposed  project  analyzed  in  the  DEIR,  Option  F's  contribution  to  this  adverse  condition  would  be 
significant.  However,  operations  of  this  left  turn  movement  could  be  improved  by  creating  a  left-turn 
only  phase  in  the  traffic  signal  plan  (left-turns  would  still  be  permitted  during  the  northbound/ 
southbound  phase).  With  this  mitigation  measure,  the  intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  C  during 
the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  LOS  D  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour. 

Parking:  Under  Option  F,  parking  conditions  would  be  similar  as  those  described  for  the  proposed 
project  in  the  DEIR.  With  555  parking  spaces,  the  Option  F  plan  would  provide  sufficient  spaces  to 
accommodate  the  maximum  weekday  and  weekend  parking  demand  (502  spaces  and  539  spaces, 
respectively).  However,  assuming  a  90  percent  effective  capacity  of  the  parking  garage  (which 
would  correspond  to  an  effective  supply  of  500  spaces),  there  would  continue  to  be  a  parking 
shortfall  during  the  peak  hours  of  peak  days,  but  it  would  not  be  considered  to  be  a  significant 
impact. 

Loading:  The  Option  F  plan  would  be  somewhat  more  convenient  for  delivery  vehicles  to  travel 
between  the  U.S.  101  on-  and  off-ramps  at  Industrial/Alemany  and  the  project  site  as  compared  to  the 
proposed  project  in  the  DEIR.  Under  Option  F,  delivery  vehicles  would  enter  the  loading  area  from 
Waterloo  Street  and  exit  onto  Loomis  Street  (as  compared  to  entering  from  Loomis  Street  and  exiting 
to  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  with  the  proposed  project).  Delivery  vehicles  entering  the 
loading  area  would  access  Waterloo  Street  from  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard,  whereas  vehicles 
exiting  the  loading  area  would  turn  left  onto  northbound  Loomis  Street  to  access  Oakdale  Avenue 
and  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Loading  impacts  would  be  less-than-significant. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.10 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PREFERRED  PLAN 


Pedestrians:  The  Option  F  plan  would  also  establish  a  pedestrian  crosswalk  on  the  south  side  of  the 
new  project  drive  way/Bay  shore  Boulevard  intersection.  Since  the  existing  intersections  of 
Bayshore/Oakdale  and  Bayshore/Cortland  are  about  1,350  feet  apart,  this  new  crosswalk  would 
enhance  pedestrian  circulation  in  the  area.  The  signal  timing  of  the  new  intersection  would  be 
incorporated  into  the  signal  timing  scheme  with  other  two  intersections.  It  is  anticipated  that 
pedestrians  would  be  able  to  cross  during  the  westbound  signal  phase  (i.e.,  when  vehicles  would  exit 
the  project  site).  However,  since  vehicles  would  be  able  to  turn  left  from  the  project  site  to 
southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard,  there  would  be  the  potential  for  vehicular/pedestrian  conflicts  at  the 
new  crosswalk.  To  address  this  issue,  an  exclusive  pedestrian  walk  phase  (with  pedestrian  actuation) 
would  be  provided  by  the  project  sponsor,  which  may  somewhat  increase  vehicular  delays  and  the 
potential  for  queues  to  develop  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  the  project  driveways.  However,  the 
intersection  would  continue  to  operate  at  an  acceptable  level  when  the  walk-phase  is  operated.  The 
Option  F  impacts  on  pedestrians  would  be  less-than-significant. 

In  common  with  the  project  analyzed  in  the  DEIR,  Option  F  would  not  have  any  significant  impacts 
on  transit,  bicycle  traffic,  and  construction. 

Air  Quality 

The  Option  F  plan  would  have  virtually  the  same  air  quality  effects  as  the  proposed  project  analyzed 
in  the  DEIR.  The  transportation  sources  of  air  quality  would  vary  only  in  the  route  of  the  delivery 
trucks  at  the  south  end  of  the  project  site.  The  loading  area  would  be  closer  to  a  sensitive  receptor, 
The  Big  City  Montessori  School  located  at  240  Industrial  Street  at  the  northeast  corner  of  Loomis 
Street,  about  300  feet  south  of  the  project,  however,  there  would  still  be  no  significant  impact  on 
local  air  quality  in  the  project  area. 

The  analysis  of  air  quality  impacts  in  the  DEIR  examined  the  worst-case  conditions  of  local 
pollutants  such  as  carbon  monoxide  and  diesel  particulates.  Carbon  monoxide  (CO)  concentrations 
were  predicted  adjacent  to  the  intersections  where  the  highest  concentration  would  be  expected.  The 
intersections  where  the  highest  concentration  would  be  expected  are  the  same  under  the  proposed 
project  and  under  the  proposed  project  with  Option  F  plan.  Concentrations  at  the  identified  sensitive 
receptors  would  be  less  than  at  these  worst-case  intersection  locations.  Since  no  CO  violations  were 
found  at  the  worst-case  locations,  no  violations  would  be  forecast  at  the  identified  sensitive  receptors. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.ll 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PREFERRED  PLAN 

Regional  emissions  from  auto  travel  of  reactive  hydrocarbons  and  oxides  of  nitrogen  (two  precursors 
of  ozone),  and  PM]0  (particulate  matter,  10  micron)  can  affect  regional  air  quality  outside  the  project 
vicinity.  In  common  with  the  proposed  project,  the  Option  F  project  plan-generated  increase  in 
vehicle  emissions  would  exceed  the  BAAQMD  threshold  of  significance  for  emissions  of  reactive 
organic  gases  (ROG),  and  would  be  considered  to  have  a  significant  adverse  environmental  effect  on 
regional  air  quality. 

The  analysis  of  diesel  exhaust  risks  in  the  DEIR  was  performed  along  Loomis  Street,  which  was 
identified  as  a  worst-case  location  for  diesel  particulates.  For  the  Option  F  plan,  the  risks  were 
calculated  at  the  location  of  highest  exposure,  on  the  east  side  of  Loomis  Street  opposite  the  proposed 
Home  Depot  loading  docks,  and  assumed  a  40-year  exposure,  which  is  beyond  the  amount  of 
exposure  that  would  occur  for  a  day  care  attendee/staff  at  the  Montessori  School.  Since  risks  at  this 
worst-case  location  were  found  to  be  less  than  significant,  risks  at  the  more  distant  Big  City 
Montessori  School  and  the  Bernal  Heights  residential  area  would  also  be  less  than  significant. 

The  mitigation  measure  in  the  DEIR  for  construction  air  quality  would  still  apply  to  Option  F. 
Noise 

The  noise  impacts  for  Option  F  would  be  similar  to  the  proposed  project  analyzed  in  the  Initial  Study 
in  Appendix  A  of  the  DEIR  which  concluded  that  operational,  construction,  and  traffic-generated 
noise  would  not  be  considered  significant.  The  loading  area  would  be  at  the  south  end  of  the 
building  with  ingress  on  Waterloo  Street  and  egress  on  Loomis  Street.  Similar  to  the  proposed 
project,  the  loading  area  would  be  shielded  from  any  sensitive  noise  receptors.  The  impacts  of  noise 
of  Option  F  would  be  similar  to  the  project  and  would  not  be  significant. 

Hazardous  Materials 

The  impacts  associated  with  hazardous  materials  for  the  Option  F  plan  would  be  the  same  as  those 
analyzed  in  the  DEIR  for  the  proposed  project.  The  mitigation  measures  for  hazardous  materials 
during  construction  discussed  in  the  DEIR  would  still  apply.  Compliance  with  an  approved  Site 
Mitigation  Plan  and  existing  regulations  would  reduce  any  potential  impacts  related  to  contaminated 
soil  or  groundwater  to  a  less-than-significant  level.  With  mitigation,  the  proposed  project  Option  F 
plan  would  not  result  in  significant  impacts  related  to  hazardous  materials  located  on  the  project  site. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.12 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PREFERRED  PLAN 


Cultural  Resources 

Option  F  would  have  the  same  consideration  for  cultural  resources  as  the  proposed  project  analyzed 
in  the  DEIR.  Given  the  multiplicity  of  documented,  prehistoric  deposits  in  the  project  area,  the 
project  site  should  be  deemed  a  zone  of  high  prehistoric/protohistoric  archeological  sensitivity,  the 
same  as  the  proposed  project.  With  implementation  of  the  mitigation  measure  described  for  the 
proposed  project,  impacts  on  subsurface  cultural  resources  of  the  proposed  project  with  Option  F 
would  be  reduced  to  a  level  of  insignificance. 

Growth  Inducement 

Option  F  would  have  the  same  effects  on  growth  inducement  as  the  proposed  project  analyzed  in  the 
DEIR.  Option  F  would  intensify  the  use  of  the  site,  but  would  not  be  expected  to  substantially  alter 
development  patterns  in  the  northwest  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area  or  elsewhere  in  San  Francisco. 
The  number  of  anticipated  shoppers  would  be  the  same  as  the  proposed  project. 

The  number  of  on-site  employees  relocating  from  outside  San  Francisco  would  be  small  in 
proportion  to  San  Francisco's  overall  population,  and  would  not  represent  a  substantial  growth  in 
population  or  concentration  in  the  neighborhood,  City,  or  region. 

Option  F  is  located  in  an  urban  area  and  would  not  necessitate  or  induce  the  extension  of  municipal 
infrastructure.  The  project  may  induce  commercial  growth  in  the  area,  but  such  growth  would  be 
part  of  the  planned  growth  for  the  City.  Therefore,  the  proposed  project  would  not  have  a  significant 
effect  on  growth  inducement. 

Conclusion 

Option  F  would  have  almost  identical  impacts  as  the  proposed  project  analyzed  in  the  DEIR.  As  with  the 
original  proposed  project,  Option  F,  with  mitigation,  would  have  the  following  unavoidable 
significant  impacts  in  the  areas  of  air  quality  and  traffic: 

•  The  proposed  Option  F  plan  would  exceed  the  BAAQMD  threshold  of  significance  for 
regional  emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases  (ROG).  This  is  an  unmitigable  project  level 
and  cumulative  impact. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.13 


My  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PREFERRED  PLAN 


•  The  proposed  Option  F  plan  would  have  a  significant  unmiti gable  contribution  to  the  2015 
adverse  cumulative  conditions  on  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  northbound  on-ramp  at  Alemany 
Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  southbound  on-ramp  at  Alemany 
Boulevard/Industrial  Street;  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  northbound  on-ramp  at  Bayshore 
Boulevard/Cesar  Chavez  Street;  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  southbound  on-ramp  at  San  Bruno 
Avenue;  and  the  1-280  Freeway  westbound  on-ramp  at  Alemany  Boulevard. 

The  mitigation  measures  listed  in  the  DEIR  would  apply  to  Option  F.  The  improvement  measure  for 
cumulative  conditions  at  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Silver  Avenue  identified  in  the  DEIR  would  also  apply 
to  Option  F. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.14 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LIST  OF  PERSONS  COMMENTING 

C.  LIST  OF  PERSONS  COMMENTING  (in  alphabetical  order) 

The  following  individuals  submitted  written  comments  during  the  public  comment  period  March  29, 
2003  through  July  11,  2003,  and/or  provided  oral  testimony  at  the  public  hearing  on  July  10,  2003, 
on  the  491  Bayshore  Boulevard  Home  Depot  Draft  EIR. 

Charles  M.  Abrams,  President,  Abrams  Associates  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments, 
July  10,  2003;  written  comments,  July  11,  2003) 

Naomi  Adelson,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  5,  2003) 

Akim  Aginsky,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  5,  2003) 

Kathy  Allen,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  6,  2003) 

Jim  Allison,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Michael  Antonini,  Commissioner  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003;  written 
comments,  July  24,  2003) 

Scott  Barlow,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Amy  Beinart,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003;  written 
comments,  July  7,  2003) 

Shelley  Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing 
comments,  July  10,  2003;  written  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Judy  Berkowitz,  Resident  (for  Doris  Vincent,  Resident)  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing 
comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Mike  Boss,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  5,  2003) 

Rev.  Edgar  Boyd,  Commissioner  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Jorge  Bustos,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Rob  Caldwell,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Aida  Calico,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Sharon  Carew,  Resident  (written  comments,  May  1,  2003) 
David  Chatfield,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  5,  2003) 
Mae  Chesney,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  9,  2003) 

Charles  Clary,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Linda  Cook,  Business  Owner  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Larry  Cruz,  President,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing 
comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Scott  E.  Cunningham,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  8,  2003) 

Brent  Daniel,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
John  Daniel,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.15 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LIST  OF  PERSONS  COMMENTING 

Larry  Dean,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
John  DeGarmo  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Melissa  M.  Diagana,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  2,  2003) 
Shannon  Dodge,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Daniel  Dodt,  Resident,  Chair  of  the  BVHP-PAC  Economic  Development  Committee,  Member  of  the 
Bayview  Merchants  Association  and  Revere  Avenue  Residents  Association  (Planning  Commission 
Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003;  written  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Cindy  Ehrlich,  Resident  (written  comments,  April  6,  2003) 

Larry  Epstein,  Resident  (written  comments,  June  28,  2003) 

Pam  Ernst,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  8,  2003) 

Lisa  Feldstein,  Commissioner  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Jean  Field,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Mary  Fitzgerald,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  8,  2003) 

Jean  Fontana,  Resident  (written  comments,  June  3,  2003) 

Ellen  M.  Frank  and  Joseph  Majer,  Residents  (written  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Rick  Gerharter,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003,  written 
comments,  July  5,  2003) 

Michael  Grafton  and  David  Ayoob,  Co-Presidents,  Cortland  Merchants  Association  (written 
comments,  July  2,  2003) 

Jonathan  Gray,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  6,  2003) 
Sophia  Green,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  8,  2003) 

David  Gregmore,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Nic  Griffin,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  9,  2003) 

Phoebe  Grigg,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003;  written 
comments,  July  8,  2003) 

Phillip  Guan,  President,  San  Bruno  Avenue  Merchants  Association  (written  comments,  July  10, 
2003) 

John  Hayes,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Robert  Heacock,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Martha  S.  Herman,  Resident  (written  comments,  June  30,  2003) 

Susan  Hershey  and  Judge  Auffinger,  Residents  (written  comments,  July  8,  2003) 

Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing 
comments,  July  10,  2003;  written  comments,  July  10,  11,  and  15,  2003) 

Jeff  Hoffman,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003;  written 
comments,  June  9,  2003) 

Douglas  Holloway  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.16 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LIST  OF  PERSONS  COMMENTING 


Kevin  Hughes,  Commissioner  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Alyson  Jacks,  Resident  (written  comments,  May  1,  2003) 
Sara  Jacobs,  Resident  (written  comments,  June  9,  2003) 

Dwayne  Jusino,  President,  Community  Alliance  of  Portola  &  Silver  Terrace  (Planning  Commission 
Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003;  written  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Terezina  Jusino,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Rachel  Kesel,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Angelo  King,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Kathleen  King,  Resident  (written  comments,  June  28,  2003) 

Ken  Kirsch,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  2,  2003) 

Amy  Kyle,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003;  written 
comments,  July  9,  2003) 

Barbara  Kyle,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003;  written 
comments,  July  24,  2003) 

Lynnly  Labovitz,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  5,  2003) 
Jeremy  and  Janice  Lane,  Residents  (written  comments,  July  4,  2003) 

Michael  D.,  Linda,  Catriana,  Hanh,  and  Michael  L.  Larson,  Residents  (written  comments,  July  6, 
2003) 

Bill  Lee,  Commissioner  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Philip  Lerner,  Business  Owner  (written  comments,  April  11,  2003) 

Deborah  Levy,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003; written 
comments,  July  1,  2003) 

Joshua  Levy,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  6,  2003) 

Rosanne  Liggett,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003;  written 
comments,  May  1,  2003) 

Liz  Linale,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Mark  Lynch,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Jo  Ann  Madigan,  Resident  (written  comments,  undated) 
Max  and  Ben  Malakoff,  Residents  (written  comments,  July  5,  2003) 

Mollie  Maloney,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Gary  A.  Marcus,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  6,  2003) 

Ingrid  Mardeson,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Eugenie  Marek,  Resident  (written  comments,  April  26,  2003) 
Michael  Marrelli,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  9,  2003) 
Dale  Martin,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  3,  2003) 

Katherine  Massey,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.17 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LIST  OF  PERSONS  COMMENTING 

Nina  Mayer,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  7,  2003) 
Patricia  F.  McManus,  Resident  (written  comments,  May  3,  2003) 

Cesar  Mendoza,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Jim  Miglino,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  8,  2003,  with  Pheobe  Grigg) 

Amy  C.  Miller  and  Virginia  Bowen,  Residents  (written  comments,  May  9,  2003) 

Michael  Miller,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Gretchen  Mokry,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Robert  Mokry,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Chris  Ellen  Montgomery,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Ron  Morgan,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003;  written 
comments,  June  27  and  July  24,  2003) 

Laurel  Muniz,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Bill  Nieto,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003;  written 
comments,  June  16,  2003) 

Chava  Nieto,  Resident  (written  comments,  June  15,  2003) 

Al  Norman,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Patrick  J.  O'Brien,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  5,  2003) 

Joe  O'Donoghue  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Jo  Ann  Ogden,  Resident  (written  comments,  June  28,  2003) 

Chris  Pagels,  Resident  (written  comments,  June  29,  2003) 

Barbara  Paley,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  8,  2003) 

Eloise  Patton,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Gil  Payne,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Joe  Pecoro,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Albert  Perez,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  5,  2003) 
Renee  Rausin,  Resident  (written  comments,  May  14,  2003) 

Roy  Recio,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Jim  Rodriguez,  sf-pt.com,  (written  comments,  May  28,  2003) 
Lisa  Rosenberg,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  8,  2003) 
Peter  Rothblatt,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Deborah  Ruskay,  Resident  (written  comments,  undated) 

Rick  Rutledge,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Ali  Saeed  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Yolanda  S.  Salazar,  Resident  (written  comments,  undated) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.18 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LIST  OF  PERSONS  COMMENTING 


Gilda  Serrano,  Resident  (written  comments,  undated) 

Leah  Shahum,  Executive  Director  of  the  San  Francisco  Bicycle  Coalition  (written  comments,  July 
11,2003) 

Ken  Shelf,  Resident  (written  comments,  June  26,  2003) 

Rich  Shelton,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Anna  Shimko,  Attorney  at  Law  for  Home  Depot  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments, 
July  10,  2003;  written  comments,  July  11,  2003) 

Joseph  Smook,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Aidan  Smyth,  Resident  (written  comments,  undated) 
Dan  Sobel,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  8,  2003) 

Gina  Solomon,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003;  written 
comments,  July  3,  2003) 

Steve  St.  Denny,  Business  Owner  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Dory  Steinberg,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Gina  Surber,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  6,  2003) 

James  Tarn,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Rev.  Arnold  Townsend,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Katherine  Truka,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  5,  2003) 

Royce  H.  Vaughn  (written  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Mauricio  Vela,  Executive  Director,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  (Planning  Commission 
Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 

Leora  Vestel,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003) 
Eleanor  Vinsant,  Resident  (written  comments,  May  10,  2003) 
Jennifer  Ware,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  7,  2003) 
Patricia  Wayman,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  9,  2003) 

Linda  Weiner,  Resident  and  Director  of  Air  Quality  Advocacy  for  the  American  Lung  Association 
(written  comments,  July  7,  2003) 

Chris  Witteman,  Resident  (Planning  Commission  Public  Hearing  comments,  July  10,  2003;  written 
comments,  July  9,  2003) 

Marci  Yellin,  Resident  (written  comments,  July  8,  2003) 
Paula  Young,  Resident  (written  comments,  June  14,  2003) 
Randy  Zarcher,  Resident  (written  comments,  undated) 
David  Ziegler,  Resident  (written  comments,  June  5,  2003) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.19 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

D.  COMMENTS  AND  RESPONSES 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

Comment  #  1 

"Cover  photo  [of  the  DEIR:]  [T]here  is  no  comparable  photo  of  the  project  anywhere  in  the  EIR.  A 
photo  that  superimposes  the  project  on  the  real  site  should  be  included.  Including  any  signage. 
Please  provide. 

"Pages  38  and  39  [of  the  DEIR:]  [Pjhotos  -  Where  are  the  'after'  photos  that  match  these  'before' 
ones?  This  EIR  is  seriously  lacking  in  explanatory  photos  and  graphics.  Also,  include  a  photo 
showing  the  site  as  it  will  be  seen  coming  down  Cortland  and  as  it  is  approached  on  101  and  280.  A 
perspective  from  Bayview  would  also  be  helpful.  Please  include  all  signage  in  the  'after'  renderings." 

"Won't  Home  Depot  have  a  large  elevated  sign?  Please  show  it."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law, 
on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #1 

The  Initial  Study  concluded  that  the  potential  visual  quality  effects  of  the  project  would  not 
be  considered  significant  so  the  EIR  did  not  address  visual  impacts  and  urban  design.  The 
EIR  did  not  include  further  analysis  or  discussion  of  the  visual  and  design  features  of  the 
project,  including  a  photo  of  the  proposed  project  superimposed  on  the  project  site  (a 
"photomontage").  The  signage  for  the  proposed  project  is  shown  on  page  32  of  the  DEIR  in 
Figure  6:  Elevations.  The  project  would  include  one  business  sign  on  the  Bayshore 
Boulevard  facade.  No  elevated  signs  are  proposed  above  the  cornice  level  of  the  proposed 
building. 

Nonetheless,  the  project  sponsor  has  prepared  four  figures  for  informational  purposes  that 
show  existing  views  (inset)  with  photomontages  of  the  proposed  project.  These  four 
perspectives  include  a  view  of  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Waterloo  Street  Frontage 
Looking  Northeast  (Figure  C&R.2),  a  view  of  the  Loomis  Street  Frontage  Looking  North 
(Figure  C&R.3),  a  view  of  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  Frontage  Looking  Southeast  (Figure 
C&R.4),  and  a  view  Looking  East  on  Cortland  Avenue  (Figure  C&R.5)  on  pages  C&R.21  to 
C&R.24.  These  additional  informational  photos  do  not  change  the  conclusion  in  the  Initial 
Study.  The  proposed  project  would  not  result  in  potentially  significant  visual  impacts,  as  the 
visual  effect  of  the  proposed  project  would  be  consistent  with  the  character  of  the 
surrounding  area,  and  it  would  not  block  any  scenic  views  or  public  vistas. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.20 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./196  Loomis  Street  C&R.21 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


2001 .0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./196  Loomis  Street  C&R.22 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.23 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


C&R.24 

2001.0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./196  Loomis  Street 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


Comment  #2 

"[T]he  project  is  mischaracterized  as  being  'near  the  eastern  border  of  the  Bernal  Heights 
neighborhood.'  (DEIR  page  3).  The  site  is  on  the  border  of  Bernal  Heights,  as  the  site  is  directly 
across  the  street,  and  will  thus  have  substantial  and  significant  negative  effects  on  the  residents  of 
that  neighborhood."  (Jeff  Hoffman,  Resident) 

Response  #2 

The  San  Francisco  Planning  Department's  designation  of  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
Neighborhood  abuts  the  eastern  border  of  the  U.S.  101  Freeway  and  includes  both  sides  of 
Bayshore  Boulevard  (essentially  the  M-l  zoning  shown  in  Figure  7  on  page  36  of  the  DEIR). 
The  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood  designation  on  the  Planning  Department's  maps  for  the 
Community  Planning  in  the  Eastern  Neighborhood  Rezoning  Options  Workbook  (Draft, 
February  2003)  shows  the  eastern  border  on  the  west  side  of  U.S.  101.  The  proposed  project 
would  be  on  the  east  side  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  near  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood,  as 
noted  on  page  3  in  the  DEIR. 

Comment  #3 

"What  happened  to  the  study  to  relocate  the  main  vehicular  entrance  to  this  store?  The  public  was 
told  that,  to  mitigate  the  impacts  of  traffic  at  the  entrance/exit,  there  was  an  effort  to  relocate  the 
main  entrance  to  Loomis.  Why  is  the  main  entrance  still  a  straight  line  extension  of  Cortland  Street, 
when  that  street  will  absorb  much  of  the  negative  impacts  of  the  project  traffic?"  (Sue  C.  Hestor, 
Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

"I  live  right  near  the  corner  of  Nevada  and  Cortland.  I'm  not  affiliated  with  any  group  here  tonight.  I 
would  like  to  address  a  couple  of  things  with  the  EIR.  I  heard  some  talk  tonight  that  Home  Depot 
has  made  a  change  of  their  entrance  to  Loomis  Street.  Now  I  would  submit  to  you  if  they  have 
materially  changed  their  proposal,  and  that  is  a  material  change,  that  you  then  have  to  go  back  and  re- 
look  at  your  figures  here."  (Chris  Witteman,  Resident,  oral  testimony) 

"No  consideration  of  access  to  parking  from  Loomis  Street.  Home  Depot  should  not  be  allowed  to 
change  project  at  last  minute  without  study."  (Chris  Witteman,  Resident,  written  comments) 

Response  #3 

The  main  vehicular  entrance  to  the  project  was  always  planned  to  be  opposite  the 
Cortland/Bayshore  intersection  to  allow  for  traffic  light  control  in  and  out  of  the  project  on 
Bayshore  (as  shown  in  Figures  C&R.6  and  C&R.7,  pages  C&R.27  and  C&R.28.  Figure 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.25 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

C&R.6  replaces  Figure  2  of  the  DEIR).  As  originally  proposed,  the  plans  had  no  ingress  or 
egress  on  Loomis  Street.  The  addition  of  the  Loomis  Street  driveway  was  proposed  by  Home 
Depot  as  a  result  of  discussions  with  Planning  Department  staff  in  order  to  alleviate  some  of 
the  traffic  at  the  proposed  project's  Bayshore  entrance.  Home  Depot  has  proposed  using 
Bayshore  Boulevard  for  its  primary  driveways  because  it  is  a  major  arterial  and  fronts  the 
proposed  Home  Depot.  However,  in  response  to  comments  submitted  on  the  DEIR,  an 
option  using  Loomis  Street  as  the  main  project  driveway  has  been  analyzed  for  consideration 
by  the  Planning  Commission.  Please  see  Response  to  Comment  #74. 

The  transportation  analysis  and  the  DEIR  studied  the  driveways  that  are  currently  proposed, 
including  the  Loomis  Street  driveway.  The  project  site  would  be  served  by  four  ingress 
driveways:  three  ingress  driveways  for  customers  and  employees,  and  one  ingress  driveway 
for  delivery  vehicles.  The  main  vehicle  entrance  and  exit  for  the  project  site  would  be 
located  at  the  eastern  side  of  the  existing  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue 
intersection  and  would  allow  full  entry  and  exit  to  the  site.  Secondary  entrance/exit 
driveways  would  be  located  on  Loomis  Street  and  Waterloo  Street.  Six  options  for  garage 
ingress  and  egress  were  studied  and  are  discussed  in  Response  to  Comment  #74. 

All  driveways  would  serve  the  ground  level  of  the  parking  garage  and  provide  access  to  the 
parking  garage  ramp;  however,  the  Waterloo  Street  driveway  would  primarily  serve  the  small 
parking  area  located  underneath  and  south  of  the  ramp.  An  additional  secondary  exit-only 
driveway  would  be  located  at  the  north  end  of  the  ground  floor  of  the  parking  garage,  and 
would  provide  right-turn  only  egress  to  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Access  for  the 
delivery  vehicles  would  be  inbound  from  Loomis  Street  and  outbound  to  Bayshore  Boulevard 
(right-turn  only). 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.26 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 


PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.27 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


Source:  Grecnberg  Harrow  Architecture 

PARKING  GARAGE  —  GROUND  FLOOR   FIGURE  C&R  7 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.28 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

Comment  #4 

"What  I  am  frustrated  about  is  that  you  continue  to  have  EIRs  that  show  non-existent  streets.  They 
have  all  these  little  streets  that  make  you  think  maybe  they  could  get  off  of  Bernal  Heights  going 
across  Bayshore  on  some  other  place.  The  real  world  is  this  is  a  Muni  map;  official  city  map  -  that 
shows  that  there  is  nothing  here.  If  you  are  in  Bernal  Heights  you  can  either  go  down  Cortland  to 
Bayshore,  or  go  down  Cortland  to  Mission  Street.  On  Saturdays  it  is  very  difficult  to  get  off  of 
Bernal  Heights  to  the  east,  because  we  can't  go  another  auxiliary  route,  which  is  go  down  to  the 
farmers  market,  because  it  is  a  zoo  on  Saturday.  On  page  28,  which  is  the  page  right  after  that,  it  is 
the  first  page  of  the  plot  map  of  this  project.  And  what  you  will  see  is  there's  one  pedestrian  access 
for  this  entire  site,  and  the  site  is  enormous.  Everything  else  is  vehicle-accessed.  The  main  vehicle 
access  is  straight  down  Cortland,  and  the  EIR  was  delayed  at  length  for  a  Loomis  Street  alternative, 
and  it  is  not  here.  That  was  a  year  of  delay  on  this  project  -  was  [that]  they  said  they  were  doing  the 
entrance  off  of  Loomis  Street.  So  you  have  a  totally  pedestrian-unfriendly  project."  (Sue  C.  Hestor, 
Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware,  oral  testimony) 

"Page  27  and  similar  maps  [in  the  DEIR:]  Streets  are  shown  north  of  Home  Depot  crossing  under 
101.  Eliminate  from  all  maps  streets  that  do  not  exist  even  if  they  are  mapped  somewhere  as  vestiges 
before  101  was  built.  We  do  not  show  streets  under  the  Bay  as  though  they  exist.  This  is  no 
different. 

"Again,  eliminate  [on  the  maps]  those  streets  crossing  101  north  of  this  site.  They  do  not  exist. 
Also,  make  sure  the  'streets'  shown  under  the  101/280  interchange  in  fact  exist  as  streets.  The  street 
pattern  differs  from  that  on  page  42."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware, 
written  comments) 

"With  regards  to  the  accuracy,  I  think  that  the  EIR  in  its  final  version  is  going  to  need  to  be  accurate, 
in  the  sense  that  on  page  27,  where  we  have  a  map,  and  the  map  shows  a  number  of  streets  that  for  all 
intents  and  purposes  appear  to  cross  the  freeway  -  that  I  don't  believe  do.  So  we  would  need  to 
correct  that."  (Kevin  Hughes,  Planning  Commissioner) 

Response  #4 

The  commenters  are  correct  that  the  three  unlabeled  streets  -  Costa,  Faith  and  Joy  Streets, 
shown  in  DEIR  Figures  1,7,  10  and  1 1  (on  pages  27,  36,  46,  and  52)  -  do  not  extend  under 
the  U.S.  101  Freeway.  There  is  a  pedestrian  bridge  that  crosses  the  freeway  from  the 
terminus  of  Joy  Street  to  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Figures  C&R.8  through  C&R.  11  (which 
replace  DEIR  Figures  1,  7,  10  and  11)  on  pages  C&R.30  through  C&R.33  show  the  street 
patterns  and  illustrate  that  only  Cortland  Avenue  passes  under  the  freeway  between  Cortland 
and  Cesar  Chavez  Street.  The  DEIR  transportation  analysis  did  not  assume  that  Costa,  Faith 
and  Joy  Streets  were  through  streets,  so  the  revised  figures  do  not  affect  the  transportation 
analysis  of  the  project. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.29 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


I  \        I  1  I  \\  \  I     I  I  \     1  = 

A — ^\  Regional  Location  i\  Berkeley^ 


Source:  During  Associates 


6-2405 


PROJECT  LOCATION    FIGURE  C&R  8 

(Revised    EIR  Figure  1) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.30 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


RH-1,  RH-2,  RH-3    House  Character  districts 


RM-1    Mixed  House  and  Apartment 
Character  districts 


P    Public  Use  district 

Source:  Cily  and  County  of  San  Francisco  Planning  Department 


X     \\  //  y-V 

C-M    Commercial  district 
MM,  Nl-2    Industrial  district 
NCD,  NC-S,  NC-1,  NC-2    Neighborhood  Commercial  districts 


6-24  05 


ZONING  DISTRICTS   FIGURE  C&R  9 

(Revised    EIR  Figure  7) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./196  Loomis  Street        C&R.3  1 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


1200  FEET  (APPROXIMATE) 


Freeway  on-ramps  —  see  Table  1  [in  the  EIR]    ©  Study  intersections  —  see  Table  2  [in  the  EIR] 


Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates 


6  24  05 


ROADWAY  NETWORK  AND  INTERSECTION  ANALYSIS  LOCATIONS    FIGURE  C&R  1 0 

(Revised  DEIR  Figure  10) 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.32 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates 

EXISTING  TRANSIT  NETWORK    FIGURE  C&R  1 1 

(Revised    EIR  Figure  11) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.33 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

Comment  #5 

"Page  28  [of  the  DEIR:]  If  a  person  parks  on  Loomis  Street,  for  example,  because  they  don't  want  to 
queue  for  the  garage,  where  will  they  be  able  to  enter  through  a  pedestrian  entrance?  How  many  feet 
of  walking  would  it  be  if  they  parked  at  the  'Loomis  Avenue'  legend  on  the  drawing?  Do  they  have 
to  walk  all  around  to  the  'pedestrian  access?'  What  amount  of  entry/exit  traffic  will  they  have  to  walk 
thru  to  get  to  that  point?  How  hazardous  will  it  be  if  they  walk  in  one  of  the  'vehicle  access' 
driveways?  When  Goodman  was  in  operation,  customers  and  employees  routinely  parked  on 
Bayshore,  Loomis,  Waterloo,  and  other  nearby  streets  when  the  lots  were  full,  during  times  of  big 
sales,  or  simply  because  a  curb  space  was  available.  How  much  curb  parking  is  available  in  a  300- 
foot  radius  of  this  site?  What  streets  will  people  be  coming  down?  What  is  the  condition  of  the 
sidewalks? 

"Why  is  there  no  direct  access  into  the  store,  only  a  pedestrian  entrance  from  the  garage?  Aren't 
those  parking  spaces  along  the  pedestrian  path  in  what  is  labeled  'seasonal  sales  area'?"  (Sue  C. 
Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #5 

The  DEIR  incorrectly  made  reference  to  "Loomis  Avenue."  All  references  in  the 
DEIR  to  "Loomis  Avenue"  are  changed  to  "Loomis  Street." 

The  main  pedestrian  entrance  to  the  store  is  on  the  south  side  of  the  building  on  the  ground 
(first  floor)  level.  There  would  be  another  entrance  on  the  garage's  second  level,  which 
accesses  the  mezzanine  area  of  the  store.  Customers  would  access  the  proposed  store 
through  the  garage,  primarily  for  convenience  as  well  as  security.  Due  to  the  nature  of  the 
use,  most  customers  would  arrive  in  vehicles,  and  enter  and  exit  the  store  from  within  the 
garage. 

There  are  separate  pedestrian  access  points  to  the  store  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Loomis 
Street  at  the  north  end  of  the  garage  adjacent  to  the  proposed  store  (see  Figure  C&R.6  on 
page  C&R.27,  which  is  replacing  DEIR  Figure  2  on  page  28,  and  Figure  C&R.7  on  page 
C&R.28).  Pedestrians  would  access  the  walkway,  at  the  north  end  of  the  garage,  and  enter 
the  store  through  the  same  entrance  as  all  customers. 

New  sidewalks  ranging  from  ten  to  twelve  feet  wide  would  replace  the  existing  sidewalks, 
along  the  Bayshore,  Loomis,  and  Waterloo  street  frontages,  which  have  deteriorated  and  need 
to  be  the  same  elevation  as  the  ground  floor  level  of  the  new  building  along  Bayshore 
Boulevard.  There  generally  would  be  sufficient  parking  in  the  garage;  however,  if  customers 
were  to  park  on  streets  near  the  project,  they  could  safely  walk  to  the  store  via  the  pedestrian 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.34 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

walkway  between  the  garage  and  the  Home  Depot  store,  then  access  the  store  through  the 
main  entrance.  Due  to  a  grade  difference  of  approximately  four  to  six  feet  from  the  first  level 
of  the  store  down  to  Loomis  Street,  there  would  be  stairs  connecting  to  the  pedestrian 
walkway. 

Pedestrian  access  to  the  store  would  be  clearly  marked,  discouraging  pedestrians  from 
entering  and  exiting  the  store  via  the  vehicular  driveways. 

The  DEIR  noted  on  page  53  under  the  heading  "Parking  Conditions"  that,  in  general,  the  on- 
street  parking  throughout  the  study  area  is  unmetered  and  unrestricted  with  the  exception  of 
street  cleaning  restrictions.  Approximately  125  on-street  parking  spaces  were  identified  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Loomis  Street,  of  which  about  50  percent  were  estimated  to  be 
occupied  on  the  weekday  and  weekend  afternoon  periods.  There  are  an  additional  ten  spaces 
on  Waterloo  and  Marengo  Streets,  for  a  total  of  135  parking  spaces  within  a  300-foot  radius 
of  the  project  site. 

There  would  be  a  "seasonal  sales  area"  in  the  ground  floor  parking  area  (see  Figures  C&R.6 
and  C&R.7)  that  would  occupy  approximately  26  parking  spaces  for  a  duration  of  about  one 
week,  four  to  six  times  a  year,  except  during  December  when  the  area  will  be  used  for  the 
sale  of  Christmas  trees  for  about  three  weeks  (also  see  Response  #91  regarding  parking 
supply). 

Comment  #6 

"Page  26  [of  the  DEIR:]  There  is  no  delineation  of  how  many,  and  what  kind,  of  parking  spaces  are 
on  each  floor,  only  a  total  of  550  spaces.  Provide  detail. 

"Page  28  [of  the  DEIR:]  How  much  parking  on  this  [ground  floor]  floor?  What  types?  How  wide  is 
Waterloo?  What  is  its  traffic  capacity,  if  people  will  be  turning  left  into  the  'vehicle  access'  for  Home 
Depot?  If  there  is  development  on  the  south  side  of  the  street,  i.e.,  a  Pier  One  Imports,  how  will 
traffic  on  Waterloo  be  affected? 

"Page  29  [of  the  DEIR:]  Ground  Floor:  Where  does  the  'down'  ramp  touch  down?  How  wide  are 
the  'in'  and  'out'  lanes?  One  lane  or  two  to  the  upper  floor?  Please  'blow  up'  the  garage  rendering  and 
show  the  paths  of  travel  for: 

"pedestrians,  including  those  walking  to  cars  on  this  floor 

"cars  trying  to  access  handicapped  parking 

"cars  coming  to  'loading' 

"cars  entering  -  for  each  'vehicle  access' 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.35 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

"cars  leaving  -  for  each  'vehicle  access' 

"Please  put  numbers  -  of  pedestrians,  vehicles  -  coming  into  Home  Depot  building,  and  into  each 
area  (e.g.,  'loading').  What  level  of  pedestrian  traffic  on  sidewalks  in  front  of  the  three  'vehicle 
access'? 

"What  cars  are  expected  to  park  on  this  [ground]  floor?  Is  it  first  come,  first  park?  At  any  point 
during  the  day?  If  not,  how  will  it  be  controlled?  Will  people  entering  the  main  entrance  be  allowed 
to  turn  left  (at  the  two  breaks)  to  access  that  parking?  What  is  the  queuing  capacity  inside  the 
building  if  the  ramp  is  backed  up?  How  would  cars  coming  in  the  three  entrances  merge  on  this 
floor?  How  would  it  be  insured  that  traffic  does  not  back  up  into  Bayshore  at  the  main  vehicle  access 
entrance?  Won't  there  be  interference  with  pedestrians  crossing  through  that  traffic  to  access  parking 
space  towards  Waterloo? 

"Explain  arrows  for  three  lanes  leaving  the  garage.  One  right  onto  Bayshore?  One  straight  ahead 
onto  Cortland?  One  left  onto  Bayshore?  Will  this  exiting  pattern  be  controlled  by  a 
Cortland/Bayshore  signal  phase?  Can  right  turns  occur  at  any  time? 

"Page  30  [of  the  DEIR:]  Second  Level  -  How  many  parking  spaces  on  this  level? 

"Page  31  [of  the  DEIR:]  Third  Level  -  How  many  parking  spaces  on  this  level?  Who  will  see  this 
roof?  Is  it  higher  than  the  freeways?  What  will  a  trellis  along  the  periphery  screen,  particularly  for 
areas  that  see  the  project  from  above,  rather  than  'across'?"  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on 
behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #6 

To  the  extent  that  the  number  of  parking  spaces  on  each  floor,  ramp  location  and  internal 
circulation  impact  traffic  on  the  surrounding  streets  (such  as  Cortland,  Bayshore,  or 
Waterloo),  those  impacts  have  been  analyzed  in  the  transportation  section  of  the  DEIR  (pages 
42  through  81).  The  following  response  and  Figure  C&R.7  on  page  C&R.28  provide  the 
information  requested  by  the  commenter.  Parking  spaces  for  the  project  are  schematically 
represented  in  Figures  2,  3,  4  and  5  of  the  DEIR  (on  pages  28  to  3 1).  Figure  C&R.6  on  page 
C&R.27  replaces  Figure  2  and  shows  160  parking  spaces  on  the  ground  floor  (including  6 
disabled).  Figure  4  in  the  DEIR  shows  140  spaces  on  the  second  level  (5  disabled),  and 
Figure  5  in  the  DEIR  shows  239  spaces  (10  disabled)  on  the  rooftop  for  a  total  of  539  spaces, 
11  fewer  spaces  than  described  in  the  DEIR.  The  DEIR  has  been  revised  to  change  all 
descriptions  of  550  spaces  to  539  spaces  (see  Section  E  -  Staff-Initiated  Text  Changes  and 
Errata,  specifically  pages  C&R.358,  C&R.360,  and  C&R.362  to  C&R.  364  for  changes  to  the 
DEIR  text).  The  reduction  of  1 1  spaces  does  not  change  the  conclusions  of  the  transportation 
and  parking  analyses,  because  the  project  was  estimated  to  have  a  peak  demand  of  502 
parking  spaces  on  a  weekday  and  539  parking  spaces  on  a  weekend,  as  stated  on  page  60  of 
the  DEIR. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.36 


July  28, 2005 


VH.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

The  proposed  garage  would  contain  approximately  31  compact  parking  spaces  and  508  full- 
size  spaces.  The  project  would  provide  the  required  21  disabled-accessible  spaces;  the  exact 
location  is  usually  determined  by  the  City  during  the  final  plan  check  phase  of  the  project. 

The  parking  garage  layout  is  based  on  similar  designs  for  other  Home  Depot  parking 
garages.1  All  entrance  and  exit  lanes  on  the  ground  floor  (as  shown  in  Figure  C&R.7)  are  1 1 
feet  wide.  The  two-way  ramp  starts  and  ends  approximately  70  feet  to  the  south  (towards 
Waterloo  Street)  of  the  Loomis  Street  entrance  and  exit.  The  ramp  connections  to  the  second 
floor  and  rooftop  would  be  one  lane  wide  in  each  direction.  Pedestrians  would  be 
discouraged  from  walking  on  the  ramps.  Elevators  to  access  other  garage  levels  are  located 
near  the  entrance/exits  of  the  store.  As  in  any  parking  garage,  there  would  be  pedestrians 
crossing  the  vehicle  circulation  routes  to  access  parked  cars  and  their  destination. 

The  garage  would  operate  on  a  first-come,  first-park  basis  throughout  the  day.  Vehicles 
entering  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  could  turn  left  (at  the  two  breaks)  or  turn  right  onto  the 
ramp  to  access  parking  spaces  on  the  upper  floors.  The  two  entry  lanes  from  Bayshore 
Boulevard  (at  Cortland  Avenue)  could  accommodate  up  to  14  vehicles  queuing  for  parking 
spaces  (two  lanes,  seven  vehicles  per  lane).  Vehicles  entering  the  garage  from  Waterloo  and 
Loomis  Streets  and  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  merge  into  the  parking  lanes  at  different 
points.  Approximately  31  parking  spaces  under  the  ramp  to  the  upper  level  would  be 
accessed  directly  from  the  Waterloo  Street  entrance  on  the  ground  floor. 

There  would  be  three  lanes  leaving  the  garage  onto  Bayshore  Boulevard  at  Cortland  Avenue: 
a  left-turn  only  lane  onto  southbound  Bayshore,  one  crossing  Bayshore  onto  Cortland 
Avenue  (while  also  permitting  left  turns  onto  southbound  Bayshore),  and  one  right-turn  only 
lane  onto  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  exiting  pattern  would  be  controlled  by  a 
Cortland/Bayshore  signal  phase,  and  it  is  anticipated  that  right-turn  on  a  red  signal  would  be 
allowed.  An  exit-only  egress  onto  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  be  situated  at  the 
north  end  of  the  parking  lot.  There  would  be  one  lane  entering  the  garage  and  one  lane 
exiting  the  garage,  both  on  Waterloo  and  Loomis  Streets. 


1  Frank  Coda,  Greenberg  Farrow  Architects,  telephone  conversation,  November  13,  2003. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.37 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

As  shown  in  the  photomontages  in  Figures  C&R.2  to  C&R.5  and  on  the  elevations  in  Figure 
6  on  page  32  in  the  DEIR,  the  rooftop  parking  would  be  seen  from  the  freeways  and  from 
some  residences  on  Bernal  Heights  that  face  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  height  of  the  rooftop 
parking  level  would  be  about  the  same  or  lower  than  the  adjacent  freeways,  which  are  at  a 
higher  elevation. 

The  rooftop  trellis  would  be  angled  inward  towards  the  parking  lot,  and  is  designed  to 
provide  a  visual  enhancement  and  screening  for  the  Bernal  Heights  residents.  There  would 
be  a  four-foot-high  solid  wall  around  the  parameter  of  the  rooftop  parking  level  to  prevent 
vehicle  car  headlights  to  shine  directly  into  the  nearby  residences.  There  would  be  rooftop 
landscaping  including  trees  in  planter  boxes  to  provide  further  screening. 

Waterloo  Street  is  twenty  feet  wide  and  lightly  used.  The  Planning  Department  has  received 
no  proposal  for  the  land  south  of  Waterloo  Street.  If  a  specific  use  were  proposed  in  the 
future,  its  potential  environmental  effects,  together  with  the  proposed  project,  would  be 
studied.  The  width  of  Waterloo  Street  is  adequate  to  accommodate  the  proposed  project 
traffic,  including  turning  movements. 

Comment  #7 

"Page  32  [of  the  DEIR:]  Elevations  -  These  are  the  only  renderings  of  the  project  and  -  because  of 
the  massive  length  of  the  proposed  project  -  are  so  tiny  as  to  be  unreadable.  Even  if  it  takes  a 
foldout,  renderings  that  are  readable  should  be  included  showing  how  this  project  will  fit  into  its 
context  and  be  seen  at  various  perspectives.  These  are  not  real  perspectives,  but  architects 
renderings.  It  is  impossible  to  see  'people'  here  -  unless  they  are  the  two  dots  over  the  exiting  cars  in 
the  top  drawing.  Please  also  point  out  where  the  building  is  going  to  'slump'  14  inches  over  30  years 
as  the  fill  that  will  be  added  subsides  (p.  A- 18)  [of  the  Initial  Study,  Appendix  A  in  the  DEIR]."  (Sue 
C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #7 

The  elevations  were  simplified  and  reproduced  in  color  to  allow  for  ease  of  reading.  Neither 
the  size  and  scale  of  the  elevations/renderings,  nor  their  content,  would  affect  the 
environmental  analysis.  The  DEIR  is  an  informational  document.  Larger  versions  of  the 
proposed  elevations  are  available  at  the  Planning  Department  for  public  review  by 
appointment  at  1660  Mission  Street,  Fifth  Floor  (Case  File  No.  2001.0062E).  The 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.38 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

photomontages  in  Figures  C&R.2  to  C&R.5  also  provide  additional  perspectives  of  the 
project. 

While  there  may  be  settlement  potential  for  the  project,  the  project  would  be  designed  to 
accommodate  any  such  change.  The  geotechnical  investigation  report  referenced  in  the 
Initial  Study  on  page  A- 18  in  Appendix  A  of  the  DEIR,  recommended  that  the  project  plans 
should  "consider"  long-term  settlement  caused  by  additional  fill  placement,  and  that  access  to 
the  proposed  building  on  the  east  side  would  require  a  transition  or  hinged  slab  to  allow  for 
anticipated  long  term  settlement.  The  Initial  Study  also  noted  that  potential  damage  to 
structures  from  geologic  hazards  on  the  project  site  would  be  mitigated  through  the 
Department  of  Building  and  Inspection  (DBI)  review  of  the  building  permit  application 
pursuant  to  DBI  implementation  of  the  San  Francisco  Building  Code. 

Comment  #8 

"Page  1;  Pages  25-26  [of  the  DEIR]:  Description  of  previous  use  is  inadequate.  The  description  of 
the  previous  uses  (Goodman  Lumber  and  Whole  Earth  Access)  does  not  include  information  about 
the  amount  of  parking  provided,  although  it  does  give  dimension  of  the  buildings.  Since  these 
previous  uses  provide  the  basis  for  one  of  the  alternatives,  the  amount  of  parking  (as  a  proxy  for 
traffic  generated)  should  be  included  in  this  description  and/or  in  the  description  of  the  alternative." 
(Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron 
Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #8 

There  were  approximately  283  parking  spaces  provided  by  the  previous  uses  on  the  project 
site.  The  DEIR  for  the  proposed  project  assumed  that  the  project  site  was  completely  vacant. 
Thus,  the  unoccupied  site  and  the  area  adjacent  to  the  site  formed  the  baseline  physical 
conditions  by  which  the  Planning  Department  (and  ultimately  the  decision-makers) 
determines  whether  an  impact  is  significant.  CEQA  states  that  alternatives  in  the  DEIR  must 
focus  on  those  possible  options  that  would  avoid  or  substantially  lessen  any  of  the  significant 
environmental  impacts  of  the  proposed  project.  The  reasonable  range  of  alternatives 
discussed  in  the  DEIR  (including  the  alternatives  of  no  project,  reuse  of  the  site  for  other 
retail  uses,  and  three  Home  Depot  stores  varying  in  square  footage)  describes  the  parking 
scenarios  that  would  be  accommodated  on  the  site  for  each  alternative.  The  traffic,  parking 
requirement,  and  parking  demand  analyzed  in  the  DEIR  are  based  on  the  size  of  the  project, 
not  the  amount  of  parking  provided  by  either  the  existing  buildings  or  the  proposed  project. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.39 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


Comment  #9 

"Before  it  was  the  'Whole  Earth  Access'  site,  and  before  it  was  Allstate  Plywood,  401  Bayshore  was 
an  auto  wrecking  yard,  Hayden  Auto  Wrecking.  The  statement  on  page  95  [of  the  DEIR]  states  that 
the  site  'may'  have  been  an  auto  wrecking  yard.  It  was,  in  fact,  such."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at 
Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #9 

The  description  of  previous  uses  of  the  project  site  was  based  on  Sanborn  maps,  City 
directories,  aerial  photographs,  and  oil  and  gas  maps,  and  was  summarized  in  the  Phase  I 
Environmental  Site  Assessment  (ESA)  of  the  project  site,  prepared  by  an  independent 
consultant  (Stechmann  Geoscience,  Inc.  (SGI),  March  20,  2001;  available  for  public  review 
by  appointment  in  Case  File  No.  2001.0062E  at  the  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission 
Street,  Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco).  The  report  concluded  that  in  1967,  Allstate  Plywood  Inc. 
occupied  401  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Prior  to  that  date,  there  was  no  listing  in  the  City 
directories.  The  1957  aerial  photographs  indicated  that  there  might  be  an  auto  wrecking  yard 
at  401  Bayshore.  The  1950  Sanborn  maps  indicated  that  the  401  Bayshore  site  was  used  for 
tire  storage.  Thus,  the  commenter  may  be  correct  that  it  was  an  auto  wrecking  yard, 
however,  it  would  not  affect  the  analysis  of  environmental  impacts  of  the  project. 

Comment  #10 

"Page  2,  pages  25-26  [of  the  DEIR]:  [The]  description  of  proposed  buildings  is  incomplete.  The 
project  is  described  as  a  '153,089-square-foot  (sq.-ft.)  home  improvement  center  and  a  separate 
parking  garage  for  about  550  spaces.'  The  only  information  about  the  parking  structure  is  its  capacity 
and  number  of  stories;  there  is  no  information  about  its  dimensions.  What  is  the  total  square  footage 
for  all  structures  in  the  project?  Provide  information  about  the  dimensions  (footprint,  exact  or 
maximum  height,  square  footage)  of  the  garage  and  its  relationship  to  the  other  buildings  in  the 
DEIR.  The  confusion  is  compounded  by  the  description  of  the  parking  garage  as  both  separate  and 
attached.  The  EIR  must  quantify  the  dimensions  (schematic  drawings  are  insufficient)  to  enable  the 
public  to  determine  if  the  project  complies  with  height  and  bulk  zoning  standards."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc 
Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal 
Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

"Page  26  [of  the  DEIR:]  Why  is  this  project  covering  nearly  100%  (95%?  98%?)  of  its  lot  -  virtually 
no  green  space  or  buffer  around  it?  Why  such  a  hard  edge?  Is  this  how  Home  Depot  sees  San 
Francisco?"  (Sue  C  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.40 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

Response  #10 

The  dimensions  of  the  proposed  project  are  discussed  in  several  places  in  the  DEIR.  On 
pages  2  and  26,  the  DEIR  states  that  the  proposed  project  would  consist  of  a  two-story, 
approximately  40-foot-tall,  approximately  153,089  sq.-ft.  home  improvement  center.  The 
store  includes  approximately  96,250  sq.ft.  on  the  main  floor,  about  38,405  sq.ft.  on  the 
second  floor,  and  an  approximately  8,546  sq.-ft.,  outdoor  garden  center  plus  a  9,888  sq.-ft., 
enclosed  greenhouse.  The  539-space  parking  garage  would  contain  approximately  235,597 
sq.ft.  The  total  square  footage  of  the  proposed  project  would  be  approximately  388,686 
sq.ft.,  including  all  parking  areas. 

The  square  footage  of  the  parking  garage  is  added  to  page  2,  paragraph  1,  as  follows: 
"The  project  sponsor,  Home  Depot,  proposes  to  construct  a  two-story,  approximately 
153,089  sq.-ft.  home  improvement  center  with  approximately  96,250  sq.ft.  on  the 
main  floor,  38,405  sq.ft.  on  the  second  floor,  and  an  approximately  8,546  sq.-ft. 
outdoor  garden  center  plus  a  9,888  sq.-ft.,  enclosed  greenhouse.  An  separate, 
attached,  approximately  235,597  sq.-ft.  parking  garage  consisting  of  two  levels  with 
rooftop  parking  totaling  $$Q  539  parking  spaces  would  also  be  constructed  as  a 
separate  structure." 

Page  26  of  the  DEIR,  fourth  paragraph,  has  added  at  the  end:  "An  approximately 
235,597  sq.-ft.  parking  garage  would  be  constructed  as  a  separate  structure  that  would 
contain  the  38,405  sq.-ft.  second  floor  sales  area  (which  is  included  in  the  153,089 
sq,-ft.  total  for  the  home  improvement  center  and  is  not  included  in  the  parking 
structure  square  footage),  accessible  by  elevator  and  escalator  to  the  ground  floor 
sales  area.  The  total  square  footage  of  the  project  would  be  approximately  388,686 
sq.ft.,  including  all  parking  areas." 

The  proposed  store  and  the  parking  garage  would  consist  of  two  independent  structural 
systems  with  connections  at  the  first  and  second  levels  between  the  two  structures,  but  no 
connection  at  the  roof  level.  The  total  footprint  of  the  project,  including  the  loading  area  and 
garden  center,  would  be  approximately  218,200  sq.ft.  and  would  cover  approximately  87.3 
percent  of  the  total  site. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.41 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


The  approximately  235,597  sq.-ft.  parking  garage  would  be  constructed  as  a  separate 
structure  that  would  contain  the  38,405  sq.-ft.  second  floor  sales  area  (which  is  included  in 
the  153,089  sq.-ft.  total  for  the  home  improvement  center),  accessible  by  elevator  and 
escalator  from  the  ground  floor  sales  area  (Figure  4  in  the  DEIR,  page  30). 

As  noted  in  Figure  6  on  page  32  of  the  DEIR,  the  proposed  project  would  be  797  feet 
7  inches  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  (340  feet  along  the  parking  garage  and  457  feet  7  inches 
along  the  store  and  garden  center).  The  proposed  project  would  be  784  feet  along  Loomis 
Street  (340  feet  along  the  parking  garage  and  444  feet  along  the  store  and  loading  area,  and 
317  feet  8  inches  along  Waterloo  Street  (parking  garage)  and  along  the  northern  property  line 
(garden  center  and  loading  area). 

As  stated  on  page  41  of  the  DEIR,  the  project  site  is  zoned  M-l  and  is  in  a  65-J  height  and 
bulk  district,  which  means  that  the  maximum  allowable  height  of  a  building  is  65  feet 
(excluding  elevator  and  mechanical  penthouses)2  and  at  heights  above  40  feet  in  height,  the 
maximum  plan  dimensions  are  250  feet  in  length  and  300  feet  diagonally.  The  proposed 
project  would  not  be  subject  to  the  65-J  height  and  bulk  limitations  since  the  average  height 
of  the  building  would  be  under  40  feet.  The  proposed  dimensions  of  the  store  and  parking 
garage  would  comply  with  the  65-J  height  and  bulk  district. 

The  project  is  proposed  in  an  industrial  zone  where  buildings  generally  have  full  lot  coverage 
with  occasional  parking  areas.  No  setback  is  required  as  65-J  height  and  bulk  districts  do  not 
require  setbacks  at  heights  at  or  below  40  feet  in  height.  The  proposed  project  would 
conform  to  the  Planning  Code  and  no  variance  is  necessary.  As  shown  in  Figures  2  through 
6,  pages  28  to  32  in  the  DEIR,  the  project  would  have  sidewalk  landscaping  and  street  trees 
around  the  perimeter,  as  well  as  trees  and  landscaping  on  the  parking  garage  roof,  and 
rooftop  trellis.  As  discussed  in  the  Initial  Study  on  page  A- 12  of  the  DEIR,  the  proposed 
store  and  parking  garage  would  change  the  visual  character  of  the  site,  which  is  in  an  area  of 
primarily  industrial  and  commercial  buildings.  The  proposed  buildings  would  be  less  than  40 
feet  in  height;  however,  they  would  be  the  largest  in  bulk  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  in  the 
surrounding  area.  The  proposed  buildings  would  be  similar  in  height  to  most  other  buildings 

2  Planning  Code  Section  260  (b)(1)(A)  exempts  from  the  height  restriction  mechanical  equipment  and  appurtenances 
necessary  to  the  operation  or  maintenance  of  the  building  above  65  feet. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.42 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

in  the  immediate  project  area.  For  these  reasons,  as  noted  in  the  Initial  Study,  the  proposed 
project  would  not  have  a  substantial,  demonstrable  negative  aesthetic  effect  within  its  urban 
commercial  and  light  industrial  setting. 

Comment  #11 

"Page  2  [of  the  DEIR]:  Information  on  the  height  of  the  building(s)  is  too  vague.  The  statement  that 
'The  buildings  would  be  approximately  40  feet  in  height'  does  not  provide  enough  information  to 
determine  whether  the  bulk  restrictions  in  the  J  Bulk  District  would  be  since  the  length  exceeds  250 
feet,  or  the  diagonal  dimension  exceeds  300  feet.  The  lack  of  information  on  relationship  of  the 
'attached'  parking  structure  (three  levels  of  parking  but  height  unspecified)  to  the  other  buildings 
makes  questions  about  zoning  compliance  more  compelling."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant; 
Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights 
Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #1 1 

The  heights  of  the  buildings  are  shown  in  Figure  6  on  page  32  of  the  DEIR.  The  top  of  the 
store  would  be  34  feet  above  the  curb  of  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  the  top  of  the  parking 
garage  would  be  38  feet  6  inches  above  the  curb  of  Bayshore  Boulevard.3  As  indicated  in  the 
above  response,  the  building  would  have  certain  features  above  40  feet  that  would  be  exempt 
from  the  height  restrictions.  These  features  could  include  elevator  penthouses,  parapet  walls, 
light  standards,  ventilators,  plumbing  vent  stacks,  cooling  towers,  water  tanks,  together  with 
visual  screening  for  any  such  features.  At  a  maximum  height  of  56.5  feet  as  indicated  in 
Figure  6,  page  32  of  the  DEIR,  these  items  would  be  lower  than  the  65-foot  height  limit. 

As  noted  in  Response  to  Comment  #10,  the  proposed  project  would  conform  to  the  City 
Planning  Code  height  and  bulk  restrictions.  The  proposed  project  would  be  less  than  40  feet 
in  height,  therefore,  the  maximum  plan  dimensions  for  a  65-J  height  and  bulk  district  would 
not  apply. 

Objectives 

Comment  #12 

"The  only  objectives  included  in  the  DEIR  are  those  of  the  project  sponsor.  A  careful  reading  of 
CEQA's  purposes  in  requiring  a  Statement  of  Objectives1  makes  it  clear  that  the  EIR  must  include  a 

3  Planning  Code  Section  102.12  indicates  that  the  height  measurement  of  a  building  shall  be  taken  at  the  centerline 
of  the  building  where  the  lot  is  level  at  curb  level. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.43 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

statement  of  the  lead  agency's  objectives  in  considering  approval  of  the  project.  The  CEQA 
Guidelines  explain  that  a  major  function  of  the  Project  Objectives  is  to  provide  the  agency  with  the 
basis  for  developing  and  evaluating  project  alternatives,  and  for  determining  whether  there  are 
considerations  that  override  unmitigable  impacts. 

"The  DEIR  cannot  properly  evaluate  alternatives  because  it  has  not  articulated  the  objectives  guiding 
the  approvals  process.  Relying  on  the  sponsor's  objectives  has  reduced  the  evaluation  of  alternatives 
to  a  tautological  exercise  with  a  predictable  but  meaningless  outcome.  The  evaluation  of  alternatives 
(pages  115-127)  consists  of  comparing  all  the  alternatives  to  a  single  objective  of  the  sponsor:  to 
develop  a  "standard-size  Home  Depot  improvement  store."  Setting  aside  the  problem  that  the  DEIR 
does  not  define  a  "standard-size"  store,  it  is  clear  that  Alternatives  A-D  could  have  been  rejected  on 
that  basis  the  moment  they  were  proposed,  without  any  further  analysis,  based  simply  on  their  size. 
The  substitution  of  the  sponsor's  objectives  for  the  City's  -  in  particular,  the  objective  for  a  "standard- 
sized"  Home  Depot  -  makes  a  mockery  of  the  evaluation  of  alternatives. 

"Although  certification  of  the  EIR  is  a  separate  decision,  it  appears  that  the  Planning  Commission 
and  all  of  the  other  agencies  that  may  provide  project  approvals  will  be  required  to  make  Findings  of 
Overriding  Considerations2  since  all  of  the  alternatives  considered  in  this  EIR  have  unmitigable 
impacts.  Given  the  controversy  over  the  merits  of  the  project,  the  Planning  Commission  should 
ensure  that  there  is  adequate  opportunity  for  the  public  to  voice  their  views  on  the  content  of  such 
Findings.  As  the  officials  responsible  for  determining  whether  this  project  has  value  that  overrides 
its  unmitigable  environmental  impacts,  the  Planning  Commission  needs  to  provide  themselves  and 
the  public  with  adequate  time  to  review  proposed  findings  carefully  to  determine  if  they  are  factually 
accurate  and  reflective  of  their  values. 

"Any  finding  of  overriding  considerations  would  similarly  be  invalidated  by  reference  only  to  the 
sponsor's  objectives.  The  City  must  determine  for  each  of  its  discretionary  approvals  whether  the 
project  achieves  public  objectives  that  outweigh  the  impacts  of  the  project  on  the  public.  It  is 
unacceptable  to  approve  a  project  with  insoluble  environmental  problems  that  the  public  must  bear 
simply  because  that  project  best  satisfies  the  goals  of  the  applicant. 

"In  his  1 1/20/02  memo,3  the  EIR  consultant  Stu  During  specifically  points  out  to  Tammy  Chan  of  the 
Planning  Department  that  the  objectives  stated  in  the  DEIR  are  those  of  the  project  sponsor,  not  of 
the  City's.  In  the  memo,  he  gives  his  interpretation  of  CEQA  that  'the  objectives  are  really  the  project 
sponsor's,  and  by  definition  will  usually  be  very  biased  and  subjective.'  The  mere  fact  that  the  EIR 
consultant  (During)  felt  it  necessary  to  explain  his  interpretation  to  the  City  and  defend  the  bias  of  the 
objectives  suggests  that  it  is  an  anomalous  reading  of  the  statute. 

"Page  25  [of  the  DEIR]:  The  objectives  for  the  project  should  be  the  City's,  not  the  sponsor's."  (Eve 
Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron 
Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15124. 

2  Section  15093. 

3 

Memorandum  from  Stu  During  of  During  Associates  to  Tammy  Chan,  Planning  Department, 
November  20,  2002. 


"[Page  25  of  the  DEIR]:  Objective  4  -  are  the  'goods  and  services'  not  available  in  San  Francisco,  or 
are  the  'competitive  prices'  not  available  in  San  Francisco? 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.44 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

Objective  8  -  why  only  meeting  goal  of  Redevelopment  Plan  in  process  and  not  also  Planning 
Department's  proposed  plan  and  rezoning  of  this  industrial  site?"  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law, 
on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #12 

Under  CEQA,  project  objectives  are  generally  those  of  the  project  sponsor.  Specifically, 
CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15124(b)  requires  that  an  EIR  contains  "a  statement  of  the 
objectives  sought  by  the  proposed  project.  A  clearly  written  statement  of  objectives  will  help 
the  lead  agency  develop  a  reasonable  range  of  alternatives  to  evaluate  in  the  EIR  and  will 
aid  the  decision  makers  in  preparing  findings  or  a  statement  of  overriding  considerations,  if 
necessary.  The  statement  of  objectives  should  include  the  underlying  purpose  of  the  project. " 
CEQA  does  not  mandate  that  the  objectives  be  those  of  the  lead  agency,  although  the 
feasibility  of  alternatives  and  mitigation  measures  is  determined  by  the  lead  agency. 

The  range  of  alternatives  to  be  examined  in  an  EIR,  as  discussed  in  Section  15126.6(c)  of  the 
CEQA  Guidelines,  "shall  include  those  [potential  alternatives]  that  could  feasibly 
accomplish  most  of  the  basic  objectives  of  the  project  and  could  avoid  or  substantially  lessen 
one  or  more  of  the  significant  effects. "  Alternatives  must  be  able  to  implement  most  of  the 
basic  project  objectives,  but  they  need  not  be  able  to  implement  all  of  them. 

An  EIR  is  required  to  evaluate  alternatives  that  could  eliminate  or  reduce  significant 
environmental  impacts  even  if  they  would  impede  attainment  of  project  objectives  to  some 
degree  or  would  be  more  costly  (CEQA  Guidelines,  Section  15126.6(b)).  The  proposed 
project's  basic  objective  is  to  develop  a  home  improvement  store.  The  only  alternatives  that 
could  reduce  the  environmental  impacts  of  a  home  improvement  store  are  variations  in  size, 
configuration,  or  location.  All  of  these  issues  are  explored  in  the  Alternatives  chapter  of  the 
DEIR.  The  DEIR  addresses  the  ability  of  each  alternative  to  meet  the  project  objectives;  the 
reason  the  objective  of  constructing  a  "standard-sized"  store  is  specifically  discussed  in 
certain  alternatives  is  because  the  objective  is  not  met  by  those  alternatives,  not  because  the 
evaluation  of  alternatives  has  been  or  should  be  reduced  to  that  one  objective.  For  a 
discussion  of  "standard-sized"  stores,  see  Response  to  Comment  #13. 

The  commenter  is  correct  that  the  overriding  considerations  are  based  on  the  project's 
overriding  merits,  not  its  environmental  impacts.  CEQA  requires  that  the  decision-making 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.45 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

body  balance  the  project's  "economic,  legal,  social,  technological,  or  other  benefits"  against 
its  "unavoidable  environmental  risks"  (CEQA  Guidelines,  Section  15093(a)).  These  findings 
of  overriding  considerations  must  be  "based  on  the  final  EIR  and/or  other  information  in  the 
record"  (CEQA  Guidelines,  Section  15093(b)).  CEQA  does  not  require  that  the  findings  of 
overriding  consideration  specifically  mimic  the  project  objectives.  In  many  cases,  the 
project's  public  benefits  could  coincide  with,  or  be  informed  by,  its  objectives,  but  they  are 
derived  separately. 

The  referenced  memo  is  consistent  with  CEQA  Guidelines,  Section  15124  (b). 

One  of  the  project  sponsor's  objectives  listed  on  page  25  in  the  DEIR  is  "to  comply  with  the 
objectives  of  the  General  Plan,  the  City  Planning  Code  and  all  applicable  codes  and 
ordinances  of  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco."  Current  plans  and  planning  efforts  that 
include  the  project  site  and  surrounding  area  are  discussed  in  the  DEIR  on  page  42,  the  Initial 
Study  page  A-ll,  and  in  Response  to  Comment  #30.  All  plans  under  consideration  by  the 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department  and  Redevelopment  Agency  call  for  commercial  uses  for 
the  proposed  project  site.  It  is  unclear  what  other  specific  proposed  plan  and  rezoning  the 
commenter  references. 

The  project  sponsor  believes  that,  at  present,  there  is  no  store  in  San  Francisco  that  offers  the 
wide  range  of  home  improvement  goods  and  services  and  at  competitive  prices  that  Home 
Depot  could  offer.  Thus,  that  is  one  of  the  sponsor's  objectives  stated  on  page  25  in  the  Draft 
EIR 

The  project  sponsor's  objective  to  meet  the  goals  of  the  San  Francisco  Redevelopment 
Agency  relates  to  the  fact  that  the  proposed  project  is  within  the  Agency's  Bayview  Hunters 
Point  Redevelopment  Survey  Area.  As  noted  in  Responses  #30  and  #31,  the  project  would 
conform  to  the  existing  Planning  Code  and  would  be  a  permitted  use  under  the  Planning 
Department's  and  the  San  Francisco  Redevelopment  Agency's  proposed  plans  for  the  area. 

Comment  #13 

"The  project  sponsor's  objective  [on  page  25  of  the  DEIR]  of  a  'standard-sized'  Home  Depot  home 
improvement  store  is  never  defined.  Although  the  DEIR  states  that  the  project  sponsor  would  like  to 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.46 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

develop  a  garden  center  of  approximately  8,500  sq.ft.,  and  a  greenhouse  of  approximately  10,000 
square  feet,  no  size  is  specified  for  a  standard-sized  store,  or  whether  the  full-service  lumber 
department  is  part  of  the  store  or  an  additional  outdoor  area. 

"A  review  of  recently  approved  Home  Depot  stores  throughout  the  country  shows  that  the  company 
is  prepared  to  build  stores  in  a  variety  of  sizes  -  virtually  all  of  them  smaller  than  the  San  Francisco 
proposal.  [Refer  to  Attachment  #2,  Eve  Bach,  Barbara  Kyle  and  Ron  Morgan  Letter  dated  July  24, 
2003.]  In  a  recent  sample  of  newspaper  articles  about  Home  Depot  openings  or  permit  approvals,  we 
found  the  size  of  the  stores  ranged  from  60,000  to  137,000  square  feet,  and  garden  centers  ranged 
from  1,900  to  3,300  square  feet.  The  proposed  project,  at  153,089  square  feet  with  garden  center  and 
greenhouse  of  18,434  square  feet  is  clearly  a  larger  project  than  those  we  have  found  in  an  internet 
search. 

"According  to  Home  Depot's  2002  Annual  Report,  'The  Home  Depot,  Inc.  and  subsidiaries  (the 
'Company')  operate  Home  Depot  stores,  which  are  full-service,  warehouse-style  stores  averaging 
approximately  108,000  square  feet  in  size.'1 

"The  sponsor's  implied  claim  that  a  store  of  153,089  square  feet  is  the  standard  size,  when  it  is  clearly 
one  of  the  largest,  if  not  the  largest  that  the  company  has  recently  built,  suggests  that  Alternative  E  is 
the  actual  project  seeking  approval  and  is  not  a  compromise  that  would  be  reluctantly  agreed  to." 
(Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron 
Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  The  Home  Depot,  Inc.,  2002,  Annual  Report,  page  31. 

"Page  25  [of  the  DEIR:]  Why  does  sponsor's  objectives  to  construct  'standard-sized'  Home  Depot 
limit  the  analysis  of  a  smaller  Home  Depot?  In  my  4/8/02  scoping  comments  [Refer  to  Appendix  E 
of  this  document,  Sue  C.  Hestor  Letter  dated  July  10,  2003],  I  requested  an  analysis  of  an  Urban 
model  Home  Depot,  one  which  is  approximately  50,000  square  feet  and  is  tailored  to  the  urban 
market.  Home  Depot  is  constructing  such  stores  in  other  large  cities.  Such  a  smaller  Home  Depot  is 
not  analyzed.  To  the  contrary,  based  on  testimony  at  today's  hearing,  Home  Depot  has  instead 
determined  to  build  one  of  its  largest  stores  on  this  congested,  non-suburban  site.  Define  'standard- 
sized'  -  including  amount  of  parking. 

"Commercial  uses  'similar  to  those  previously  operated  on  the  site'  is  a  stretch.  Home  Depot  is  one 
of  the  largest  retail  companies  in  the  country.  It  does  national  TV  advertising  on  such  venues  as  the 
Superbowl.  No  store  previously  on  that  site  did  that  kind  of  advertising,  nor  had  the  ability  to 
undercut  and  thereby  demolish  its  competitors.  Whole  Earth  had  clothing,  shoes,  books,  and  soft 
goods,  as  well  as  a  range  of  appliances,  TVs,  stereos,  cameras,  and  similar  goods."  (Sue  C.  Hestor, 
Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

"Project  objectives  include  construction  of  a  'standard  size  Home  Depot  home  improvement  store'  but 
no  size  is  specified.  How  big  is  the  'standard  size'?  What  does  a  standard  size  store  include?  What 
proportion  of  Home  Depot  stores  do  not  meet  the  standard?  How  many  stores  have  received  permits 
in  the  last  year  that  are  smaller  than  the  standard  size?"  (Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood 
Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.47 


July  28,  2005 


VH.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

Response  #13 

According  to  the  project  sponsor,  the  square  footage  of  a  "standard-sized"  store  is  dependent 
on  the  sales  volumes  that  the  store  would  be  expected  to  generate.  Therefore,  "standard- 
sized"  buildings  and  garden  centers  vary  in  size  depending  on  specific  levels  of  expected 
sales  volumes.  According  to  the  project  sponsor,  a  "standard-sized"  store  for  sales  volumes 
equivalent  to  those  expected  for  the  current  proposed  project  is  an  approximately  115,000 
sq.-ft.  building  with  a  35,000  sq.-ft.  garden  center,  totaling  150,000  sq.ft.  Home  Depot  also 
has  a  "standard-sized"  store  for  markets  with  a  smaller  sales  volume  than  those  expected  of 
the  project  (and  in  markets  with  lower  real  property  transactional  costs  than  what  exists  in 
San  Francisco).  That  smaller  prototype  is  an  approximately  102,000  sq.-ft.  building  with  a 
35,000  sq.-ft.  garden  center,  totaling  about  137,000  sq.ft.  For  either  prototype  (as  with  the 
proposed  project),  the  full-service  lumber  department  is  contained  within  the  building 
envelope,  and  is  not  a  separate  outdoor  area.  Alternative  E  analyzed  in  the  DEIR  (pages  125- 
127)  is  approximately  140,000  sq.ft.,  roughly  the  same  as  the  smaller  prototype  Home  Depot. 
As  noted  in  Response  #10  and  in  the  DEIR  on  page  25,  the  proposed  project  is  larger  than 
Alternative  E,  at  over  150,000  sq.ft.,  and  as  noted  in  Response  #12,  the  lead  agency  would 
determine  the  feasibility  of  each  alternative. 

The  proposed  project  would  consist  of  a  134,655  sq.-ft.  building,  a  9,888  sq.-ft.,  enclosed 
greenhouse,  and  a  8,546  sq.-ft.  garden  center,  totaling  approximately  153,089  sq.ft.  There  is 
slightly  more  building  space  and  slightly  less  garden  center  space  than  in  a  prototypical 
"standard-sized"  store  for  the  applicable  sales  volume,  since  the  store  would  serve  an  urban 
population  with  relatively  less  demand  for  garden  products.  In  addition,  unlike  most  Home 
Depot  stores,  in  order  to  fit  the  size  of  the  San  Francisco  site  and  meet  market  demand,  the 
project  would  be  designed  as  a  two-level  building,  which  would  result  in  certain 
inefficiencies  of  space  requiring  additional  square  footage. 

The  commenter's  table  [refer  to  Attachment  2,  Eve  Bach,  Barbara  Kyle,  and  Ron  Morgan 
Letter  dated  July  24,  2003,  page  E-24]  showing  varying  store  square  footages  lacks  details 
such  as  sales  volumes  and  site  constraints,  which  affect  decisions  regarding  store  size, 
therefore,  a  comparison  between  these  stores  and  the  proposed  project  is  difficult.  Even 
without  such  details,  four  of  the  stores  listed  (Pasco  County,  Florida;  Dublin,  Georgia; 
Lakeland,  Florida;  and  Clackamas,  Oregon)  measure  approximately  130,500  to  158,300  sq.ft. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.48 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

in  size  (including  garden  center);  these  are  similar  to  or  slightly  larger  than  the  project's 
proposed  153,089  sq.ft.4  In  addition,  the  table  lists  a  Home  Depot  store  in  Sonora, 
California.  No  Home  Depot  currently  exists  or  is  proposed  in  that  location.  Table  C&R.  1  on 
the  following  page  is  a  list  of  36  Home  Depot  stores  in  the  San  Francisco  Bay  Area  and  their 
square  footages. 

As  noted  in  Table  C&R.l,  Home  Depot  stores  come  in  a  variety  of  sizes.  The  variety  of  sizes 
is  based  on  factors  such  as  site  constraints,  projected  sales  volume,  and  land  costs. 

The  DEIR  on  pages  121  to  123,  in  fact,  analyzes  a  smaller-sized  store  as  part  of  its 
examination  of  alternatives.  Alternative  C  is  a  60,000  sq.-ft.  project  that  would  have  fewer 
environmental  impacts  than  the  proposed  project;  however,  the  analysis  discusses  the  fact 
that  Home  Depot  has  found  that  stores  of  this  size  are  not  usually  successful  unless  they  carry 
an  abbreviated  range  of  products  and  services  and  are  located  close  to  a  full-size  Home  Depot 
(within  5  miles).  The  Home  Depot  in  Colma,  located  approximately  seven  miles  from  the 
project  site,  is  not  close  enough  to  rely  on  for  support  services.  Alternative  C  therefore  does 
not  meet  the  basic  objectives  of  the  project,  identified  on  page  25  in  the  DEIR,  which  include 
"to  provide  a  wider  range  of  home  improvement  goods  and  services  and  at  competitive  prices 
not  otherwise  available  within  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,"  and  "to  satisfy  a  home 
improvement  market  need  for  both  do-it-yourself  customers  and  local  contractors  in  San 
Francisco  and  the  surrounding  area."  A  proposed  store  similar  in  size  to  the  Colma  store  is 
proposed  in  Daly  City  (scheduled  to  open  in  2006),  which  would  be  approximately  six  miles 
from  the  project  site,  again  not  close  enough  to  rely  on  for  support  services. 


4  Home  Depot  confirmed  the  following  information: 

Clackamas,  OR.  Building,  103,906  sf,  Garden  Center,  19,068  sf,  Outdoor  Lumber  Area,  35,332  sf,  Total  sf  = 
158,306 

Dublin,  GA.  Building,  102,513  sf,  Garden  Center,  27,988  sf,  Total  =  130,501  sf  (no  separate  lumber  area) 
Lakeland,  FL.  Building  108,360  sf,  Garden  Center,  25,009  sf,  Total  =  133,369  sf  (no  separate  lumber  area) 
There  are  several  stores  in  Pasco  County.  The  commenter's  reference  did  not  identify  a  specific  store. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.49 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


Table  C&R.l 

Square  Footages  and  Number  of  Parking  Spaces  of  Home  De 

pot  Stores  in  the  Bay  Area 

Storp  Location 

Customer 

V  11  1  IV/111V  1 

Piirkinc 
PrnviHprl"'' 

I    MM  IUtU 

Building 

(sf) 

Garden  Center 
(sf) 

Total 

(sf) 

Ppmnnpl  1 

V^oXllL/l/Gll 

44^ 

1/7/1993 

102  332 

X  \J  j_  ,  J  J  _ 

18  705 

121  037 

1"  1  ?  v/ J  / 

435 

"  J  J 

10/19/1995 

i  \ji  i  y  i  1 y  y  ~j 

99  940 

13,196 

1 13,136 

f^nlma  -  Snn.n1v  Stnrp 

v   VMllkl        OUUU1  V    JLUl  V 

337 

4/30/1998 

i  /  j  \j  i  k  y  y  \j 

80  750 

8,198 

88,948 

V/UllCvl  VX 

466 

"  V  V 

5/2/1991 

102  220 

20  220 

122  440 

Dalv  Citv 

n/ci 

* 

99,970 

10,236 

1 10  206 

X  X  v,i- VU 

Pa<*t  Pain  Aitn 

441 

7/22/1999 

107  700 

X  \J  1  j  1  \J\J 

24,102 

131  802 

1  J  I  jOVZ> 

S4R 

6/17/1993 

1 00  000 

X  \J\J y\J\J\J 

29  590 

y\j 

1  Z,y  jjyyj 

Hmpr\/vi  lip 

468 

7/14/1994 

ilk  "17  1  .7 

102  496 
x     )*y  vj 

28  143 

1 30  639 

X  -/  V/jVJJ  ^ 

X  1  V,  1 1  iUl  i  t 

464 

*t  V/T 

2/22/2001 

i_/  —  —  /  i*VJV/  1 

107  920 

23  841 

131  761 

X  J  X  ,  /  V/  X 

VJiii  u  y 

477 

*T  /  / 

10/98/1999 

105  700 

X  VJ  J  ,  /  V/ V/ 

24,102 

129  802 

J-TavwarH 
i  k<x y  w  ai  vx 

son 

1 1/1  5/2001 

1  1/  1  J/  £*\J\J  1 

1 07  920 

23,298 

131  218 

X  J  X            X  O 

1-Tprpi  llpQ 

J.  H.  1  LUIL.l 

461 

12/1 1/2003 

94,984 

24,301 

119  285 

T  iyprmr»rp 

J_fl  V  LI  JIRM  t 

47^ 

1/6/7000 

X  /  VJ/  Z.V/ V/VJ 

1 07  784 

23  920 

J  ,  J7  Z-VJ 

1 3 1  704 

IJl,  /  V/T^ 

rVTi1nita<; 

I  *  1  1 1  vj  1  l&D 

490 

6/2 1  /200 1 

\Jl  jL  1  I  —  \J  V  X 

108,994 

23,928 

132,922 

rVTi  Inita^  -  Simnlv  Stnrp 

1VX11L/1  IclD        UUUU1  V 

382 

5/16/2002 

83  199 

14,964 

98  163 

TVfnrcfan  T-Till 

gull  X  XI  i  1 

415 

4/29/2004 

103,359 

19,250 

122  609 

338 

1/21/1999 

x/z.1/  k  y  y  y 

100  238 

19,870 

120  108 

X  <b  V/  ,  X  V/  o 

Oakland 

\y  £4 IV 1  CI  1 1 VI 

649 

6/24/2004 

Vf  £*\l  4>VU  i 

122  050 

X  —  j—  ,  \J  J  \J 

36,145 

158,195 

Pitt^hnrp 

1    H  LOU  111 

471 

8/5/1993 

100  670 

22,053 

122,723 

Plpa  canton 

1     .1  V.  (.1  Oil  1  1  IV  1  1 

463 

1 2/13/1990 

102  242 

26  722 

128  964 

Rnhnprt  Park 

1  Will  1V.-1  I  X  cli  IV 

567 

7/23/1992 

'  / — »/  \.  y  y 

104  470 

40  000 

144;470 

Salinas 

494 

10/28/1993 

102  180 

1  \J         m   1  U  V 

28,336 

130  516 

San  farina 

kj till  \_/tll  1UO 

369 

10/12/1989 

xv/  i  —  /  k  y  kj  y 

102  220 

X  '  J  —  ,  i—  —  \J 

27,918 

130  138 

I  J  V/ j  1  JU 

San  Tose  /  Rlo^som  Hill 

UUil   JUOV   /     IJlUOkJVlll    X  ±111 

386 

4/17/1986 

98,833 

3,871 

102,704 

San  Jose  /  Bollinger 

457 

5/1 1/2000 

106,344 

24,644 

130  988 

San  To^p  /  T-Till^Hfllc 

494 

3/7/2002 

1 10,290 

22  030 

1 39  390 

San  Leandro 

643 

8/31/1988 

138,272 

9,399 

147  671 

San  Mateo 

490 

12/4/1997 

105,700 

22,984 

128  684 

San  Rafael 

527 

8/22/1996 

102,190 

28,143 

130,333 

San  Ramon 

488 

1/11/1996 

103,019 

26,594 

129,613 

Santa  Clara 

488 

12/13/1990 

95,700 

15,120 

110,820 

Sunnyvale 

487 

10/15/1992 

131,200 

25,960 

157,160 

Union  City 

442 

3/12/1992 

102,340 

25,902 

128,242 

Vallejo 

493 

1/16/1992 

104,080 

19,920 

124,000 

Watsonville 

457 

10/28/2004 

94,981 

24,000 

118,981 

Windsor 

465 

6/28/2001 

107,920 

23,920 

131,840 

Source:  Home  Depot 


In  many  cases,  the  store  is  part  of  an  overall  shopping  center,  thus  the  number  given  indicates  how  many  spaces  are 
available  specifically  for  Home  Depot  customers. 
*  Project  has  been  approved  and  construction  is  about  to  begin, 
sf  =  square  footage 
n/a  =  information  not  available 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.50 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

One  objective  of  the  proposed  project  is  to  reuse  an  existing  site  with  commercial  uses 
similar  to  those  previously  operated  at  the  site.  The  previous  uses  on  the  site  were  the  76,846 
sq.-ft.  Goodman  Lumber  Company  store  and  the  approximately  30,500  sq.-ft.  Whole  Earth 
Access  store.  The  proposed  Home  Depot  store  would  carry  the  complete  inventory 
previously  available  in  the  Goodman  Lumber  Company  store.  In  addition,  the  Home  Depot 
store  would  also  sell  home  appliances  and  light  fixtures  that  were  available  at  the  Whole 
Earth  Access  store. 


Project  Approvals 

Comment  #14 

"The  EIR  needs  to  itemize  the  Planning  Commission  approvals  requested  by  the  applicant  that  will 
be  based  on  this  EIR.1  The  description  on  page  2  of  the  Planning  Commission  approvals  ('Planning 
Department  staff-initiated  discretionary  review  before  the  Planning  Commission')  is  surprisingly 
vague.  The  description  of  project  approval  requirements  on  pages  33  and  34  suggest  that  the 
Planning  Commission's  role  is  limited  to  certification  of  the  EIR.  The  text  states  that  the  City  is 
required  to  find  that  the  proposed  project  or  legislation  is  consistent  with  the  [Prop  M]  Priority 
Policies,  but  is  unclear  who  in  the  City  makes  this  determination.  The  listing  of  approvals  needed 
from  the  Department  of  Public  Works,  the  Department  of  Building  Inspections,  and  Department  of 
Parking  and  Traffic,  and  the  Board  of  Supervisors  at  least  give  some  idea  of  what  specific  approvals 
would  be  needed.  Our  questions  to  the  Planning  Department  contact  for  this  project  were  answered2 
with  a  referral  to  someone  else  in  the  Department  rather  than  an  answer."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology 
Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights 
Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  The  description  of  the  project  must  include  "A  list  of  permits  and  other  approvals  required  to  implement  the 
Project"  (Section  15124(d)(1)(B)). 

2 

Email  from  Tammy  Chan  to  Ron  Morgan,  6/27/03. 

"Nature  of  the  Project.  We  all  know  that  Bayshore  needs  to  be  developed.  The  Planning 
Commission  needs  to  consider  Proposition  M.  Home  Depot  will  put  other  local  hardware  stores  out 
of  business.  Many  jobs  will  also  be  lost  from  these  local  businesses.  Bayshore  is  full  of  great 
hardware  resources."  (Amy  C.  Miller  and  Virginia  Bowen,  Residents) 

"Also,  could  you  outline  the  governing  standards  or  requirements  for  each  approval  that  the  project 
needs  in  order  to  go  forward? 

"1.       Public  Works  -  curb  cuts  (what  standards  govern/guide  approvals?). 

"2.  Building  Inspection  -  demolition  and  building  permits  (are  these  considered  discretionary 
because  of  Prop  M?). 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.51 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

"3.  Parking  and  Traffic,  Interdepartmental  Staff  Committee  on  Traffic  and  Transportation  - 
approval  of  new  signals,  crosswalks,  left-turn  pockets,  change  to  median  (what  standards 
govern/guide  approvals?  Are  these  decisions  subject  to  appeal?). 

"4.  Board  of  Supervisors  -  left-turn  pocket,  changes  to  median  (what  standards  and  findings  are 
required?). 

"5.  Planning  Commission  -  What  specific  approvals  will  they  be  asked  to  give,  what  are  the 
required  findings,  and  which  can  be  appealed?  (Certification  of  EIR?  Use  Permit?  Consistency  with 
Prop  M  Priority  Policies?)"  (Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community 
Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #14 

The  project  sponsor  has  submitted  a  site  permit  to  allow  demolition  of  the  existing  structures 
on  site  and  construction  of  the  proposed  project.  As  noted  in  the  Draft  EIR  on  pages  2,  33, 
and  34,  the  proposed  project  would  be  a  principally  permitted  use  and  would  not  require 
special  authorization  by  the  Planning  Commission.  The  project  sponsor  and  the  Planning 
Department,  however,  have  agreed  to  submit  the  project  to  the  Planning  Commission  for  a 
public  hearing  under  discretionary  review.  Thus,  a  staff-initiated  discretionary  review 
hearing  before  the  Planning  Commission  would  allow  the  public  to  comment  on  the  merits  of 
the  project.  The  discretionary  review  hearing  and  potential  approval  actions  are  separate 
from  the  EIR  certification  hearing;  however,  the  actions  may  be  considered  at  a  single 
Planning  Commission  hearing.  The  public  would  be  notified  of  the  public  Planning 
Commission  hearing  for  EIR  certification  and  discretionary  review.  All  commenters  on  the 
Draft  EIR  would  be  notified  by  mail  of  the  certification  hearing  and  the  Planning 
Commission  agenda  is  posted  on  the  City  government  web  site. 

As  noted  in  the  Draft  EIR  on  page  34,  prior  to  issuing  a  permit  for  any  project;  prior  to 
issuing  a  permit  for  any  demolition,  conversion,  or  change  of  use;  and  prior  to  taking  any 
action  which  requires  a  finding  of  consistency  with  the  General  Plan,  the  City  (in  this  case 
the  Planning  Commission)  is  required  to  find  that  the  proposed  project  is  consistent  with  the 
eight  Priority  Policies  established  under  Proposition  M,  the  Accountable  Planning  Initiative 
{Planning  Code  Section  101.1).  The  case  report's  approval  motions  for  the  proposed  project 
would  contain  the  analysis  determining  the  project's  consistency  with  the  Priority  Policies. 
This  would  be  part  of  the  discretionary  review  hearing,  where  the  Planning  Commission  will 
determine  whether  to  approve  the  site  permit  for  the  proposed  project. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.52 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

In  addition,  if  the  project  as  proposed  (or  any  of  the  alternatives  discussed  in  the  EIR)  were 
approved  by  the  Planning  Commission,  the  Planning  Commission  would  need  to  adopt 
findings  for  each  identified  significant  effect  (CEQA  Section  15091),  and  issue  a  Statement 
of  Overriding  Considerations.  (Also  see  Response  to  Comment  #12.) 

The  public  would  have  an  opportunity  to  review  the  proposed  findings  and  the  Statement  of 
Overriding  Consideration,  and  would  be  able  to  address  the  Planning  Commission  on  these 
matters  when  the  project  is  considered  for  approval.  The  Planning  Commission's 
certification  of  the  EIR  could  be  appealed  to  the  Board  of  Supervisors.  The  Planning 
Commission's  action  on  the  site  permit  is  subject  to  discretionary  review  and  would  not  be 
appealable. 

In  addition,  following  completion  and  certification  of  the  Final  EIR,  and  Planning 
Commission  approval  of  the  site  permit,  the  project  would  require  the  following  approvals: 

•  Department  of  Public  Works  approval  for  curb  cuts  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  and 
Loomis  Street. 

•  Department  of  Building  Inspection  issuance  of  demolition  and  building  permits. 
These  are  subject  to  appeal  to  the  Board  of  Permit  Appeal. 

•  San  Francisco  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  (DPT)  and  the  Interdepartmental 
Staff  Committee  on  Traffic  and  Transportation  (ISCOTT)  approval  for  the 
installation  of  new  traffic  signals  and  pedestrian  crosswalks  at  Bayshore  Boulevard 
and  Cortland  Avenue,  the  creation  and  extension  of  northbound  and  southbound  left- 
turn  pockets  on  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  changes  to  the  median  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard.  These  decisions  are  appealable  administratively  to  the  Director  of 
Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  and  then  to  the  Board  of  Supervisors. 

•  Board  of  Supervisors  approval  of  the  southbound  Bayshore  left-turn  pocket  and 
changes  to  the  median  on  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

Comment  #15 

"[I]  would  like  to  see  [the]  Community  Commitment  document  included  in  the  DEIR"  (Shelly 
Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President) 

"The  negative  effect  of  the  project  greatly  outweighs  its  benefits.  The  DEIR  concedes  that  the 
negative  impacts  of  certain  air  pollution  cannot  be  reduced  to  an  insignificant  level  (DEIR  at  [page] 
1 13).  However,  no  negative  effects  of  any  air  pollution  can  be  mitigated,  because  once  pollutants  are 
released  into  the  air,  they  cannot  be  captured  and  they  then  add  to  the  already  polluted  air.  Because 
the  significant  impacts  of  increased  air  pollution  cannot  be  mitigated,  the  San  Francisco  Planning 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.53 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

Department  must  adopt  a  Statement  of  Overriding  Considerations,  which  finds  that  overriding 
'benefits  of  the  project  outweigh  the  significant  effect  on  the  environment.'1 

"The  potential  benefits  of  this  project  are  dubious  at  best,  considering  that  Home  Depot  pays  low 
wages  and  does  not  allow  its  workers  to  unionize,  which  would  bring  them  higher  wages  and 
benefits.  Home  Depot  has  also  failed  to  guarantee  that  a  certain  number  of  residents  from  the 
Bayview  community  will  be  hired,  so  that  there  may  be  no  benefit  to  either  community  from  this 
project.  This  small  potential  benefit  of  a  few  possible  low-paying  jobs  clearly  does  not  outweigh  the 
significant  negative  effects  of  all  of  them  together.  Considering  that  the  substantial  amount  of 
additional  air  pollution  and  noise  that  will  be  generated  by  the  project  cannot  be  mitigated  and  that 
there  will  be  an  additional  adverse  impact  to  pedestrians,  the  significant  effects  on  the  environment 
clearly  outweigh  the  small  and  merely  potential  benefits  of  the  project.  There  is  thus  no  way  that  you 
can  honestly  and  logically  adopt  a  Statement  of  Overriding  Considerations,  which  is  needed  to 
approve    the    project    due    to    its    unmitigable    effects."        (Jeff   Hoffman,  Resident) 

1  Public  Resources  Code  Section  21081(a)(3),  (b). 

Response  #15 

The  second  commenter  is  correct  in  observing  that  if  the  Planning  Commission  were  to 
approve  the  project,  in  accordance  with  CEQA,  it  would  need  to  adopt  findings  for  each 
identified  potential  significant  adverse  environmental  effect,  and  it  would  need  to  adopt  a 
Statement  of  Overriding  Considerations.  Traffic  and  air  quality  are  unmitigable  impacts, 
however,  pedestrian  and  noise  impacts  were  found  not  to  be  significant  and  hence  do  not 
warrant  mitigation  measures.  The  Commission  is  required  to  balance,  as  applicable,  the 
economic,  legal,  social,  technological,  or  other  benefits  of  a  proposed  project  against  its 
unavoidable  environmental  risks  when  determining  whether  to  approve  the  project. 

The  project  sponsor  has  entered  into  a  First  Source  hiring  agreement  with  the  City  regarding 
store  operations  (see  Appendix  G  of  this  document,  pages  G-4  and  G-5).  Chapter  83  of  the 
San  Francisco  Administrative  Code  ("First  Source  Hiring  Program")  requires  project 
sponsors  to  identify  entry  level  positions  for  qualified  economically  disadvantaged 
individuals,  and  to  set  appropriate  recruitment,  hiring  and  retention  goals. 

The  First  Source  hiring  agreement  for  the  proposed  project  sets  forth  a  jobs  training  and 
hiring  program  that  calls  for  the  project  sponsor  to  use  good  faith  efforts  to  fill  (a)  at  least  100 
(approximately  50  percent)  of  the  new  entry-level  retail  positions  at  the  proposed  store  with 
residents  of  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area,  and  (b)  at  least  50  (approximately  25  percent)  of 
the  new  entry-level  retail  positions  with  residents  of  the  Potrero  Hill,  Visitacion  Valley, 
Bernal  Heights,  Excelsior  and  Mission  neighborhoods.    In  addition,  the  project  sponsor 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.54 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

would  take  measures  to  recruit,  screen,  and  train  candidates  from  the  targeted  areas  to  work 
in  retail  jobs  at  the  store. 

The  project  sponsor  has  also  entered  into  a  First  Source  hiring  agreement  with  the  City 
regarding  construction  jobs.  Under  that  agreement,  the  project  sponsor  and  its  contractor 
must  use  good  faith  efforts  to  ensure  that  at  least  50  percent  of  the  person-hours  spent  to 
construct  the  store  are  performed  by  residents  of  the  City  of  San  Francisco,  with  at  least  half 
of  that  (25  percent  of  the  total  person-hours)  being  performed  by  residents  of  the  Bayview 
Hunters  Point  area. 

The  commenter  may  present  his  position  before  the  Planning  Commission  regarding  the 
benefits  of  the  project  when  the  Commission  considers  the  project  for  approval  or  denial 
(also  see  Response  to  Comment  #157  related  to  Home  Depot  employment  practices). 

The  Commissioner's  request  regarding  the  "Community  Commitment"  document  presumably 
refers  to  an  agreement  that  the  project  sponsor  has  made  with  The  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
Project  Area  Committee  (BVHP-PAC)  concerning  Home  Depot's  hiring  commitments  and 
other  community  benefits.  The  Commitments  document  has  been  included  in  this  Final  EIR 
as  Appendix  G. 

Comment  #16 

"There  is  a  possible  appeal  of  the  EIR  to  the  Board  of  Supervisors.  Will  the  Commission  act  before 
that  appeal  is  considered?"  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #16 

Under  the  provisions  set  forth  in  Chapter  31  of  the  City  Administrative  Code,  Section  31.16, 
the  EIR  must  be  certified  by  the  Planning  Commission  before  it  may  be  appealed  to  the 
Board  of  Supervisors.  Specifically,  Section  31.16  states,  "Any  person  or  entity  that  has 
submitted  comments  to  the  Planning  Commission  or  the  Environmental  Review  Officer  on  a 
Draft  EIR,  either  in  writing  during  the  public  review  period,  or  orally  or  in  writing  at  a 
public  hearing  on  the  EIR,  may  appeal  the  Planning  Commission's  certification  of  a  final  EIR 
to  the  Board  of  Supervisors." 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.55 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

A  letter  of  appeal  must  be  submitted  to  the  Clerk  of  the  Board  within  twenty  (20)  calendar 
days  after  the  Planning  Commission's  certification  of  the  EIR. 

The  Planning  Commission  may  consider  project  approval  at  the  same  hearing  that  it 
considers  certification  of  an  EIR. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.56 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 
Land  Use 

Comment  #17 

"Page  3  [of  the  DEIR]:  The  description  of  uses  in  the  surrounding  area  is  incomplete.  The 
description  of  nearby  buildings  omits  mention  of  residential  buildings  and  a  child  care  center."  (Eve 
Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron 
Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #17 

The  page  referenced  by  the  commenter  is  in  the  Summary  chapter  of  the  EIR.  A  more 
complete  description  of  the  project  area  is  found  on  page  37.  The  DEIR  notes  that  the  nearest 
residential  development  is  west  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  west  of  U.S.  101  in  the  Bernal 
Heights  neighborhood,  less  than  400  feet  from  the  project  site.  There  are  also  residential 
units  north  of  1-280  and  west  of  U.S.  101  on  a  small  hill  south  of  Industrial  Street, 
approximately  1,500  feet  south  the  project  site.  The  child  care  center  referenced  by  the 
commenter  is  the  Big  City  Montessori  School  located  at  240  Industrial  Street  at  the  northeast 
corner  of  Loomis  Street,  about  300  feet  south  of  the  project  site.  It  is  identified  on  page  82  of 
the  DEIR. 

The  following  sentence  is  added  at  the  beginning  of  the  third  paragraph  on  page  37  of 
the  DEIR:  "A  child  care  center,  the  Big  City  Montessori  School,  is  located  about  300 
feet  south  of  the  proposed  project  at  the  northeast  corner  of  Loomis  Street  and 
Industrial  Street."  This  additional  sentence  does  not  affect  the  conclusions  of  the 
DEIR  in  terms  of  land  use  or  any  other  impacts. 

Comment  #18 

"Page  4:  The  DEIR  erroneously  states  that  the  project  will  not  change  the  area.  The  statement  that 
'The  proposed  project,  however,  would  not  essentially  change  the  existing  retail/light  industrial 
character  or  physical  arrangement  of  the  area'  is  incorrect.  Improvements  that  have  been 
incorporated  into  the  project  will  change  the  physical  configuration  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  by 
changing  the  dimensions  of  the  center  divide.  It  is  also  likely  that  this  project  will  open  the  door  to 
other  'big  box1  retail  establishments  that  do  not  now  exist  in  the  area,  a  factor  indirectly 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.57 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 


acknowledged  in  the  DEIR's  brief  discussion  of  inducements  to  commercial  growth  in  the  area  on 
page  103."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair; 
and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #18 

The  statement  referenced  by  the  commenter  is  in  the  Summary  chapter  of  the  EIR.  A  more 
comprehensive  discussion  of  land  use  is  found  on  pages  35  to  40  in  the  DEIR.  The 
discussion  states  that  the  proposed  project  would  be  a  large  development  containing  some  of 
the  previous  uses  on  the  site,  and  would  increase  the  density  of  uses,  number  of  customers 
and  amount  of  vehicles  on  the  site.  The  proposed  project,  however,  would  not  essentially 
change  the  existing  retail/light  industrial  character  or  physical  arrangement  of  the  area.  The 
use  would  be  generally  compatible  with  the  mix  of  surrounding  commercial  and  industrial 
uses  in  a  dense  urban  area.  As  noted  on  page  A- 13  in  Appendix  A  of  the  DEIR,  the  proposed 
project  would  not  result  in  significant  adverse  land  use  impacts. 

The  proposed  project  would  intensify  the  use  of  the  site  and  may  induce  commercial  growth, 
however,  the  project  would  not  provide  new  infrastructure  that  could  be  used  to  serve  other 
projects,  nor  would  it  extend  infrastructure  into  a  new  area.  The  project  would  not  have  a 
significant  growth-inducing  impact  (see  the  Growth  Inducement  section  of  this  document, 
page  C&R.298  and  the  DEIR  on  page  103). 

In  the  context  of  land  use  changes  envisioned  by  CEQA,  a  change  in  the  physical 
arrangement  of  an  area  would  entail  new  streets,  major  expansion  of  streets,  grade 
separations  or  bridges  over  streets,  closure  or  abandonment  of  a  street,  and  zoning  changes  to 
allow  larger,  denser  structures.  The  transportation  improvements  to  the  Bayshore  Boulevard 
proposed  as  part  of  the  project  would  include  new  traffic  signals,  countdown  pedestrian  lights 
and  pedestrian  crosswalks  at  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue,  a  left-turn  pocket  for 
southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  traffic  to  enter  the  project  site,  an  extension  of  the 
northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  left-turn  lane;  and  north  of  the  project  site,  the  median  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard  would  be  changed  to  allow  northbound  traffic  to  make  U-turns.  These 
transportation  improvements  would  be  minor  in  the  context  of  changes  to  land  use  and  would 
not  constitute  a  change  in  the  physical  arrangement  of  the  community. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.58 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

Comment  #19 

"Pages  35  and  37  [of  the  DEIR:]  Is  the  building  supply  company  south  of  Waterloo  in  fact  closed? 
It  does  not  appear  to  be.  The  store  across  Bayshore,  north  of  Cortland,  is  called  'Floorcraft.'"  (Sue  C. 
Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #19 

The  commenter  is  correct.  The  building  supply  company  south  of  Waterloo  Street,  Bayshore 
Building  Supply,  is  occupied,  and  the  store  across  Bayshore  Boulevard,  north  of  Cortland 
Avenue,  is  called  "Floorcraft." 

In  the  DEIR  on  page  37,  third  paragraph,  line  five,  the  sentence  is  revised  to  read:  "A 
vacant  building  supply  warehouse  is  located  to  the  south,  across  Waterloo  Street." 

Comment  #20 

"Another  potential  land  use  impact  is  whether,  based  on  the  report  on  cultural  resources,  the  site  must 
be  used  for  Public  Trust  purposes."1  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No 
Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community 
Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  Allen  Pastron,  "Archival  Cultural  Resources  Evaluation  of  the  Proposed  491  Bayshore  Boulevard/196 
Loomis  Street  Home  Depot  Project,"  May  2002,  pages  13,  16,  25,  27-37. 

Response  #20 

Under  the  public  trust  doctrine,  lands  below  ordinary  high  water  or  mean  high  tide  are  held  in 
trust  for  the  people  of  California  and  can  only  be  used  in  furtherance  of  navigation, 
commerce,  fisheries  and  other  trust-related  purposes.  As  noted  in  the  DEIR  section  under 
Cultural  Resources  on  pages  101  and  102,  in  its  natural  state,  the  project  site  was  situated  on 
relatively  level  ground  at  elevations  ranging  between  0  and  10  feet  above  mean  sea  level. 
Based  on  a  review  of  various  historical  maps,  the  project  site  and  its  immediate  locale  were 
situated  amidst  the  salt  marshes  surrounding  Islais  Creek  on  the  interface  of  the  wet  and  dry 
environmental  zones.  The  marshy  tract  that  characterized  much  of  the  Islais  Creek 
neighborhood  was  transformed  into  buildable  land  by  the  first  half  of  the  20th  Century. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.59 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

The  California  State  Lands  Commission  noted  that  the  proposed  project  site  is  not  eligible  for 
the  Public  Trust.5 

The  DEIR  indicates  on  page  102  that  the  project  site  should  be  deemed  a  zone  of  high 
prehistoric/protohistoric  archeological  sensitivity,  and  recommends  that  a  systematic  program 
of  pre-construction  archeological  testing  and  evaluation  be  implemented.  The  revised 
Mitigation  Measure  for  Archeological  Cultural  Resources  (see  below)  states  that  if  an 
archeological  resource  were  discovered,  it  would  be  evaluated  and  a  number  of  measures 
could  be  implemented  that  might  include:  preservation  in  situ  of  the  archeological  resource; 
an  archeological  monitoring  program;  or  an  archeological  testing  program.  Regardless  of  the 
action,  the  project  site  would  not  be  eligible  for  public  trust  purposes. 

The  Planning  Department  has  revised  the  standard  Archeological  Cultural  Resources 
Mitigation  Measure,  and  the  new  mitigation  measure  recommended  for  the  project  site  is 
found  in  Section  E  -  Staff-Initiated  Text  Changes  and  Errata,  pages  C&R.365  through 
C&R.368.  Home  Depot  has  agreed  to  implement  this  revised  measure. 

Comment  #21 

"Page  41  [of  the  DEIR:]  The  conclusion  in  the  Land  Use  Analysis  that  the  buildings  will  be  less  than 
40  feet  is  different  from  the  Project  Description  that  equivocates,  stating  only  that  the  buildings  will 
be  approximately  40  feet."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot 
Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing 
Coordinator) 

Response  #2 1 

As  noted  in  Response  to  Comment  #11,  the  height  of  the  proposed  store  would  be 
approximately  34  feet  and  the  height  of  the  proposed  parking  garage  would  be  38  feet  6 
inches,  as  measured  from  the  curb  to  the  top  of  the  roof  along  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

Comment  #22 

"Page  40  [of  the  DEIR:]  Those  facilities  [prior  land  uses  on  the  project  site]  at  most  had  regional  SF 
Bay  advertising,  nearly  all  of  it  in  local  and  neighborhood-oriented  newspapers.  Home  Depot  is  a 

5  Grace  M.  Kato,  Public  Land  Management  Specialist,  California  State  Lands  Commission,  letter  to  Stu  During, 
December  30,  2003.  This  letter  is  available  for  public  review  by  appointment  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning 
Department,  1660  Mission  Street,  Fifth  Floor,  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.60 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

national  advertiser  which  probably  spends  hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars  on  television  and  other 
national  advertising,  besides  massive  amounts  of  money  in  regional  newspapers.  That  level  of 
advertising  generates  much  more  traffic  from  outside  the  immediate  area  of  this  site. 

"The  character  of  this  area  would  change  dramatically  because  Home  Depot  will  be  the  anchor  for 
other  Big  Box  facilities,  particularly  when  Planning  has  already  designated  this  area  for  big  box. 
There  is  no  precedent  in  San  Francisco  or  in  the  immediate  Bay  Area  where  a  single  big  box  facility 
is  located  in  isolation  from  others.  Costco  opened,  followed  by  the  555  9th  Street  center,  followed  by 
the  conversion  of  Canned  Foods  to  Best  Buy.  Sears  on  Masonic  was  converted  into  a  series  of 
stores,  including  Office  Depot.  The  Standard  Brands  across  Geary  was  converted  to  a  Trader  Joes. 
In  both  of  these  instances,  the  projects  that  followed  the  initial  anchor  caused  substantial  traffic 
problems.  (In  the  case  of  Trader  Joes,  which  change  in  use  triggered  no  environmental  evaluation, 
the  traffic  problems  are  so  severe  that  there  must  be  monitors  controlling  access  to  the  site  because 
traffic  backs  up  seriously  on  Masonic.) 

"Can  Home  Depot  provide  specific  instances  where  they  have  gone  into  an  area  zoned  industrial  (or 
similar)  as  the  first  big  box  store,  and  where  after  5  years  there  were  no  other  big  box  or  large 
commercial  facilities  within  lA  mile?"  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #22 

The  DEIR  states  on  page  59  that  an  estimated  76  percent  of  the  anticipated  customers  of  the 
proposed  project  would  come  from  San  Francisco,  with  the  remainder  from  cities  to  the 
south,  including  Brisbane,  South  San  Francisco,  San  Mateo,  Millbrae,  San  Bruno  and  Colma. 
As  noted  in  Response  to  Comment  #18,  the  proposed  project  would  not  essentially  change 
the  existing  retail/light  industrial  character  of  the  area.  Primary  land  uses  along  Bayshore 
Boulevard  would  continue  to  be  commercial  retail.  While  the  proposed  project  could 
stimulate  additional  retail  growth  in  the  area,  the  commenter's  assertion  that  other  large-scale 
"big  box"  retail  projects  would  automatically  occur  in  the  area  is  speculative.  The  Planning 
Department  has  no  other  applications  for  other  large  retail  projects  in  the  area.  New  and 
expanded  retail  uses  for  the  area  would  be  subject  to  review  by  the  Planning  Department  and 
potential  approval  by  the  Planning  Commission,  and  would  be  subject  to  environmental 
impact  analysis  (e.g.,  for  traffic  and  air  quality  impacts)  under  CEQA.  The  project  sponsor 
has  not  conducted  economic  development  studies  on  the  change  in  land  uses  around  its  stores 
five  years  after  opening. 
Comment  #23 

"I  think  the  comments  have  been  made  about  Bayshore  Boulevard.  It  always  has  been  a  home 
improvement  area.  Whether  it  should  remain  that  or  not  is  conjectural,  but  when  I  was  doing  things 
20  years  ago,  I  would  go  down  there  to  Sid  Mar  for  sinks,  to  Goodman's  and  Floorcraft,  and  those 
different  shops.  The  scope  may  be  larger  here,  but  the  usage  is  similar.  Those  are  basically  the 
things  I  heard  tonight."  (Michael  Antonini,  Planning  Commissioner) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.61 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

"I  think  that  it  is  a  poor  use  of  our  land;  our  extremely  limited  land,  to  devote  it  to  a  big-box.  I  think 
we  can  do  better,  and  I  think  we  owe  it  to  the  neighborhoods  that  surround  it,  and  to  the  city."  (Amy 
Beinart,  Resident) 

"The  use  of  this  land  as  yet  another  Home  Depot  chain  store  doesn't  serve  the  City  well.  Land  in  San 
Francisco  is  precious;  let's  make  sure  that  this  is  the  best  use  of  this  parcel  of  land  (I  haven't  seen  any 
serious  alternate  proposals)."  (Michael  D.,  Linda,  Catriana,  Hanh,  and  Michael  L.  Larson, 
Residents) 

"The  other  thing  is  simply  just  a  planning  note.  Right  now  there  are  two  major  vacant  sites  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard.  There  is  an  opportunity  for  development  to  create  a  sense  of  place  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  and  this  has  not  been  addressed  by  -  will  not  be  addressed  by  a  large,  big  box  retail 
outlet."  (Joseph  Smook,  Resident) 

Response  #23 

The  proposed  project  would  be  a  permitted  use  in  the  M-l  zoning  district.  The  project  site  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard  is  in  an  area  of  light  industrial  and  commercial  uses.  The  Planning 
Commission  would  decide  whether  or  not  the  proposed  project  represents  the  best  use  of  the 
site.  The  commenters  may  convey  their  views  to  the  Planning  Commission  regarding 
appropriate  use  of  the  project  site  at  the  public  hearing  on  project  approval. 

Comment  #24 

"The  project  in  itself,  and  in  conjunction  with  growth  it  will  induce,  would  create  a  significant  land 
use  impact  by  changing  the  character  of  land  use  along  Bayshore  Boulevard,  replacing  smaller  retail 
establishments  with  large  regional-serving  stores.  Approval  of  the  project  will  endanger 
neighborhood-serving  retail  and  diminish  opportunities  for  resident  ownership  of  such  businesses  in 
both  Bernal  Heights  and  in  Bayview  Hunters  Point.  In  many  cities,  the  impact  of  big  box 
development  has  been  to  cause  neighborhood  serving  retail  establishments  to  fail.  Impairing  the 
viability  of  neighborhood  retail  would  cause  physical  deterioration,  both  in  Bernal  Heights  and  in 
Bayview  Hunters  Point,  as  well  as  a  change  in  traffic  patterns  as  residents  would  have  to  travel 
further,  and  by  car  rather  than  on  foot,  to  meet  day-to-day  needs  for  goods  and  services. "  (Eve  Bach, 
Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan, 
Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

"Page  34  [of  the  DEIR:]  Priority  policies  include  'preservation  and  enhancement  of  neighborhood- 
serving  retail  uses,'  and  'protection  of  neighborhood  character.'  Throughout  the  City,  locally-owned 
neighborhood  hardware,  nurseries,  and  home  improvement  stores  are  vital  parts  of  NC  districts. 
What  assumptions  are  being  made  about  whether  these  stores  will  continue?"  (Sue  C.  Hestor, 
Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

"One  of  the  points  that  was  made  earlier  about  reconciliation  between  the  neighborhoods,  and 
between  areas:  I  want  to  emphasize  this.  Throughout  this  we  have  made  efforts  to  reconcile  on  both 
a  personal  level  and  environmental  level  and  virtually  every  level  -  economic  level.  We  really  have 
trouble  with  that,  and  I  think  the  Planning  Commission  really  needs  to  look  at  that  -  how  we  resolve 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.62 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

this  issue,  and  certainly  future  issues  of  reconciliation,  in  future  planning,  and  this  planning, 
especially."  (Mark  Lynch,  Resident) 

Response  #24 

No  evidence  has  been  presented  that  the  project  would  induce  a  change  in  the  land  uses  in  the 
area  from  small  retail  to  region-serving  retail,  or  that  neighborhood-serving  retail  businesses 
would  fail  as  a  result  of  the  project. 

In  order  to  confirm  a  connection  between  the  economic  effects  of  the  project  and  the  physical 
deterioration  or  urban  decay  predicted  by  the  commenters,  the  following  chain  of  events 
would  need  to  be  established:  (i)  that  operation  of  the  project  would  result  in  the  failure  of 
competing  retail  stores;  (ii)  that  such  failed  competing  retailers'  space  would  not  be  reused  by 
other  occupants  within  a  reasonable  time  frame;  and  (iii)  that  such  long-term  vacancy  of  the 
space  would  result  in  physical  deterioration  or  urban  decay.  Most  of  the  commenters'  stated 
concerns  regarding  the  economic  and  social  effects  associated  with  the  proposed  project  are 
specifically  related  to  financial  impacts,  and  none  establish  with  any  degree  of  certainty  that 
the  effects  of  the  proposed  project  can  be  traced  to  economic  or  social  changes  and 
subsequently  to  resulting  physical  impacts.  Thus,  no  evidence  has  been  provided  by  the 
commenters  to  support  links  (i),  (ii),  or  (iii)  above. 

See  Response  #28  for  an  additional  discussion  of  the  potential  economic  effects  of  the 
project.  See  also  Response  #30  and  Response  #22  for  additional  discussion  of  land  use  plans 
and  policies  for  the  Bayshore  and  Bayview  Hunters  Point  areas. 

The  commenters'  concerns  regarding  the  potential  effects  of  the  project  on  changes  in  land 
use  are  noted  and  will  be  considered  by  the  decision-makers.  To  the  extent  that  the  economic 
and  social  effects  of  the  proposed  project  could  result  in  physical  changes  to  the  environment, 
such  potential  environmental  impacts  have  been  identified  and  fully  analyzed  in  the  relevant 
topical  sections  of  Chapter  III  of  the  DEIR. 

Comment  #25 

"This  very  large  project  is  proposed  at  Cortland  Avenue,  the  one  eastern  entry  to  Bernal  Heights. 
This  project  is  just  over  the  border  from  our  residential  area.  It  would  have  a  deeply  negative  effect 
upon  Bernal  Heights.  Shouldn't  there  be  a  grey  area  around  a  residential  zone  that  prevents  such 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.63 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 


large  projects?  Home  Depot  ought  to  pick  from  one  of  the  other  industrial  sites  available."  (Eugenie 
Marek,  Resident) 

Response  #25 

The  zoning  in  San  Francisco  frequently  has  light-industrial  (M-l)  and  heavy  commercial  (C- 
M)  adjacent  to  residential  zoning  (please  refer  to  Figure  C&R.9  on  page  C&R.31).  The 
Planning  Commission  has  discretionary  authority  to  determine  whether  a  proposed  project 
would  be  compatible  with  adjacent  land  uses.  The  General  Plan  also  provides  urban  design 
policies  regarding  appropriate  design  for  commercial  projects  adjacent  to  residential  projects. 
As  shown  in  Figure  C&R.9  on  page  C&R.31,  Highway  101  separates  a  larger  residential 
district  (RH-1)  from  the  M-l  light  industrial  district  in  which  the  project  site  is  located. 


General  Plan 

Comment  #26 

"Page  35  [of  the  DEIR]:  Land  use  impacts  are  potentially  significant  and  must  be  analyzed.  The 
conclusion  that  land  use  impacts  are  less  than  significant,  as  claimed  by  the  Initial  Study,  is  not 
justified.  The  compatibility  of  the  project  with  the  adjacent  Bemal  Heights  neighborhood,  cannot  be 
ensured  because  Bernal  Heights  is  not  covered  by  General  Plan  Land  Use  policies.  As  a  result,  the 
General  Plan  does  not  ensure  the  compatibility  of  Bernal  Heights  land  uses  with  those  of  adjoining 
areas,  and  Bernal  Heights  therefore  lacks  protection  of  its  land  uses  from  the  environmental  impacts, 
such  as  traffic,  noise,  air  quality,  and  blocked  views  from  new  uses  in  adjoining  areas. 

"By  default,  the  principal  land  use  protection  available  to  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood  is 
afforded  by  the  priority  policies  instituted  by  Proposition  M.  The  project  would  cause  land  use 
impacts  because  it  would  be  inconsistent  with  the  following  priority  policies  in  the  Planning  Code: 

"•  That  existing  neighborhood-serving  retail  uses  be  preserved  and  enhanced  and  future 
opportunities  for  resident  employment  in  and  ownership  of  such  businesses  enhanced;1 

"•  That  a  diverse  economic  base  be  maintained  by  protecting  our  industrial  and  service  sectors 
from  displacement  due  to  commercial  office  development,  and  that  future  opportunities  for 
resident  employment  and  ownership  in  these  sectors  be  enhanced.2 

"The  proposed  development  raises  a  significant  question  concerning  compliance  with  the  San 
Francisco  General  Plan,  since  the  General  Plan's  Land  Use  Indices  do  not  pertain  to  Bernal  Heights, 
and  there  is  no  Land  Use  element  to  establish  reference."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant; 
Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights 
Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  San  Francisco  Planning  Code  Section  101.1(b)(1). 
San  Francisco  Planning  Code  Section  101.1(b)(5). 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.64 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 


"There  is  one  problem  I  would  like  to  bring  to  your  attention,  and  it  is  a  problem  both  with  the 
Environmental  Impact  Report,  and  it  is  a  much  bigger  problem  as  well.  And  that  has  to  do  with  the 
inadequacy  of  the  general  plan.  As  you  may  know,  San  Francisco's  general  plan  looks  at  most  - 
provides  most  land  use  policies  through  the  area  plans.  Bernal  Heights  doesn't  have  an  area  plan,  and 
the  general  plan  doesn't  have  a  land  use  element.  So  we  have  a  situation  where  there  are  no  policies 
that  cover  Bernal  Heights.  The  reconciliation  of  uses  that  ordinarily  would  be  addressed  by  the  land 
use  element  -  direct  conciliation  between  adjoining  areas,  and  between  areas  in  the  city  as  a  whole  - 
has  not  taken  place.  This  is  a  much  bigger  problem  than  the  EIR  problem,  but  it  also  is  an  EIR 
problem,  because  it  is  not  mentioned  in  the  EIR,  and  because  the  potential  conflicts  are  not 
addressed,  the  potential  land  use  conflicts  are  not  addressed."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant) 

"As  I  have  previously  expressed  to  the  Planning  Department,  neither  I  nor  any  of  the  other  residents 
of  the  contiguous  Bernal  Heights  area  were  consulted  before  the  current  planning  guidelines  for  that 
area  were  developed,  or  before  the  Home  Depot  project  was  advanced  to  this  stage  in  the  planning 
process.  I  have  looked  at  the  Planning  Department  studies  that  paved  the  way  for  big-box  stores  on 
Bayshore,  and  noted  that  Bernal  Heights  is  shown  -  if  at  all  -  as  some  sketchy  terra  incognita  on  the 
periphery  of  the  Department's  maps.  The  impact  of  the  planned  growth  on  the  Bernal  community  is 
nowhere  considered."  (Chris  Witteman,  Resident) 

Response  #26 

The  General  Plan  does  not  have  a  specific  area  plan  that  covers  the  Bernal  Heights 
neighborhood,  nor  does  it  have  a  specific  Land  Use  Element.  In  neighborhoods  that  are  not 
covered  by  a  specific  area  plan,  the  General  Plan  applies.  In  the  General  Plan,  land  use 
policies  and  maps  are  contained  in  various  other  elements. 

As  noted  in  the  introduction  to  the  General  Plan,  San  Francisco  is  a  dynamic  entity  within 
which  there  are  constant  pressures  for  change  and  renewal.  "The  City's  General  Plan  serves 
to  guide  these  changes  to  ensure  that  the  qualities  that  make  San  Francisco  unique  are 
preserved  and  enhanced.  The  General  Plan  is  based  on  a  creative  consensus  concerning 
social,  economic,  and  environmental  issues.  Adopted  by  the  Planning  Commission  and 
approved  by  the  Board  of  Supervisors,  the  General  Plan  serves  as  a  basis  for  decisions  that 
affect  all  aspects  of  our  everyday  lives  from  where  we  live  and  work  to  how  we  move  about. 
It  is  both  a  strategic  and  long-term  document,  broad  in  scope  and  specific  in  nature.  It  is 
implemented  by  decisions  that  direct  the  allocation  of  public  resources  and  that  shape 
private  development.  In  short,  the  General  Plan  is  the  embodiment  of  the  community's  vision 
for  the  future  of  San  Francisco. ,(6 


6  San  Francisco  General  Plan,  Introduction,  electronic  file  at  sfgov.org/planning/egp/index.htm,  page  1. 


200 1.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.65  July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

"State  law  requires  that  the  General  Plan  address  seven  issues:  land  use,  circulation, 
housing,  conservation,  open  space,  noise  and  safety.  The  Charter  approved  by  the  voters  in 
November  1995  requires  that  the  Planning  Commission  recommend  amendments  to  the 
General  Plan  to  the  Board  of  Supervisors  for  approval.  This  approval  changes  the  Plan's 
status  from  an  advisory  to  a  mandatory  document  and  underscores  the  importance  of 
Referrals  establishing  consistency  with  the  General  Plan  prior  to  actions  by  the  Board  of 
Supervisors.  "7 

The  General  Plan  is  intended  to  be  an  "integrated,  internally  consistent  and  compatible 
statement  of  objectives  and  policies  and  its  objectives,  and  policies  are  to  be  construed  in  a 
manner  which  achieves  that  intent.  Section  101.1(b)  of  the  Planning  Code,  which  was  added 
by  Proposition  M,  November  4,  1986.  "8 

In  order  to  provide  an  easy  reference  to  the  various  land  use  policies  that  are  contained 
throughout  the  General  Plan,  and  to  relate  these  policies  and  maps  to  the  State  law 
requirements  regarding  the  content  of  land  use  elements,  the  General  Plan  contains  a  Land 
Use  Index.  This  Index  cross  references  the  State  law  requirements  for  a  land  use  element 
with  the  land  use  policies  as  contained  in  the  various  elements  and  area  plans  of  the  General 
Plan.  The  project  site  and  the  Bemal  Heights  area  are  shown  in  a  number  of  maps  in  the 
Land  Use  Index. 

The  Draft  EIR  addresses  the  General  Plan  and  lists  some  objectives  and  policies  relevant  to 
the  proposed  project  on  pages  40  and  41  of  the  DEIR.  These  objectives  and  policies  pertain 
to  both  the  Bernal  Heights  and  South  Bayshore  neighborhoods.  The  Planning  Commission 
would  determine  the  consistency  of  the  proposed  project  with  the  General  Plan  policies. 

The  analysis  of  land  use  impacts  does  not  rely  solely  on  General  Plan  issues,  but  considers 
land  use  compatibility,  density,  and  other  issues.  The  CEQA  analysis  of  the  proposed  project 
would  not  change  if  Bernal  Heights  were  to  have  an  area  plan. 


7  Ibid,  page  2. 

8  Ibid. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.66 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

Although  it  would  not  relate  directly  to  the  development  of  the  proposed  project,  there  is  a 
Bernal  Heights  Special  Use  District  (SUD)  in  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Code  (Section 
242)  which  was  created  to  "...  reflect  the  special  characteristics  and  hillside  topography  of  an 
area  of  the  City  that  has  a  collection  of  older  buildings  situated  on  lots  generally  smaller 
than  the  lot  patterns  in  other  low-density  areas  of  the  City,  and  to  encourage  development  in 
context  and  scale  with  the  established  character."  This  SUD,  as  shown  in  Figure  C&R.  12  on 
page  C&R.68,  encompasses  most  of  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood  and  sets  forth  zoning 
controls  related  primarily  to  residential  design  guidelines  and  minimal  commercial 
development.  The  proposed  project  is  not  within  the  Bernal  Heights  SUD.  The  project  site  is 
located  in  the  South  Bayshore  Area  Plan  Element  of  the  General  Plan,  which  is  designated 
for  light  industrial  use.  The  project  would  be  consistent  with  the  land  uses  of  the  Northern 
Industrial  Area  of  the  South  Bayshore  Area  Plan. 

Comment  #27 

"Page  40  and  41  under  the  General  Plan.  The  DEIR  lists  the  key  objectives  and  policies  of  the 
General  Plan  relevant  to  the  proposed  project.  Further  discussion  is  necessary  beyond  listing  the 
General  Plan's  Objective/Policy.  Discussion  relative  to  how  the  project  is  meeting  these  goals  is 
necessary.  The  project  design  seems  inconsistent  with  Urban  Design  element  policy  2  and  policy  6. 
DEIR  should  detail  how  the  project  is  meeting  the  General  Plan  policies  as  listed.  Also  under  the 
transportation  element,  policy  6.1,  the  project  design  as  presented  does  not  appear  to  designate 
expeditious  routes  for  freight  trucks  as  required  by  the  policy.  The  lack  of  adequate  crossings  fails  to 
provide  adequate  crossings  as  mentioned  in  policy  23.7.  The  truck  entry  provided  in  the  project 
design  does  not  adequately  serve  the  30  daily  truck  deliveries  anticipated  by  the  project,  and 
therefore  does  not  meet  policy  40.1.  Further  discussion  of  how  the  project  will  meet  the  policies  of 
the  General  Plan  is  necessary."  (Shelley  Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President) 

"The  'policy'  list  is  so  much  eyewash.  There  is  absolutely  no  analysis  of  any  of  this.  Nor  does  the 
EIR  provide  information  with  which  to  do  the  analysis.  For  example,  page  41,  Policy  6  -  'avoid  an 
overwhelming  or  dominating  appearance  in  new  construction'  would  reasonably  have  required 
renderings  showing  the  appearance  of  the  project  from  various  perspectives,  but  none  have  been 
provided."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #27 

The  Planning  Commission  will  evaluate  the  proposed  project  against  the  provisions  of  the 
General  Plan  and  will  consider  potential  conflicts  as  well  as  consistency  with  the  General 
Plan  as  part  of  the  decision-making  process  (see  page  A- 10  in  the  EIR). 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.67 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 


A  House  Character  districts 


q   Mixed  House  and  Apartment 
Character  districts 


M  Public  Use  district 


Source:  Ciiy  and  County  of  San  Francisco  Planning  Department 

6-24-05 

BERNAL  HEIGHTS  SPECIAL  USE  DISTRICT   FIGURE  C&R  1 2 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.68 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

As  noted  on  page  A- 10  in  Appendix  A  of  the  DEIR,  the  City's  General  Plan,  which  provides 
general  policies  and  objectives  to  guide  land  use  decisions,  contains  some  policies  that  relate 
to  physical  environmental  issues.  The  current  project  would  not  obviously  or  substantially 
conflict  with  any  such  policy.  In  general,  potential  conflicts  with  the  General  Plan  are 
considered  by  decision-makers  independently  of  the  environmental  review  process,  as  part  of 
the  decision  whether  to  approve  or  disapprove  a  proposed  project.  Any  potential  conflict  not 
identified  in  the  DEIR  could  be  considered  in  that  context,  and  would  not  alter  the  physical 
environmental  effects  of  the  proposed  project.  With  respect  to  the  specific  policies  identified 
by  the  Commissioner,  the  plans  of  the  project  are  schematic  in  nature  and  are  not  at  the  level 
of  detail  required  for  working  drawings.  Thus,  the  specific  routes  for  truck  deliveries,  entry 
to  the  project,  and  loading  are  not  shown  in  the  plans,  but  are  discussed  on  pages  72  and  73 
of  the  DEIR.  No  significant  impacts  were  identified. 

The  South  Bayshore  Element  of  the  General  Plan  contains  objectives  and  policies  that  may 
be  relevant  to  the  proposed  project.  The  following  subsection  will  be  added  to  the  DEIR  on 
page  41,  prior  to  the  Zoning  section: 

"South  Bayshore  Area  Plan  Element 

•  Policy  3.1,  to  'improve  and  establish  truck  routes  between  industrial  areas  and 
freeway  interchanges.' 

•  Policy  4.1,  to  'develop  a  comprehensive  network  and  schedule  of  roadway 
improvements  to  assure  that  South  Bayshore  maintains  an  adequate  level  of 
service  at  key  intersections  as  the  residential  and  work  force  population  in  the 
district  increases.' 

•  Policy  7.3,  to  'develop  secondary  nodes  of  commercial  activity.' 

•  Objective  8,  to  'strengthen  the  role  of  South  Bayshore  industrial  areas  in  the 
overall  economy  of  the  district,  the  city,  and  the  overall  region.' 

•  Policy  8.1,  to  'maintain  industrial  zones  in  Northern  Industrial  and  India 
Basin  subdistricts.' 

•  Objective  9,  to  'improve  linkage  between  growth  in  South  Bayshore  industrial 
areas  and  employment  and  business  needs  of  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
community." 

The  proposed  project  would  conform  directly  or  indirectly  with  the  above  policies.  The 
improvements  to  Bayshore  Boulevard  as  described  on  page  33  in  the  DEIR  would  be 
designed  to  maintain  an  adequate  level  of  service.    The  project  would  strengthen  the 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.69 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

economy  in  South  Bayshore  and  would  be  a  permitted  use  in  the  South  Bayshore  industrial 
area.  The  First  Source  hiring  program  identified  in  Comment  #15  would  improve  linkage 
between  economic  growth  in  the  South  Bayshore  industrial  areas  and  employment  needs  of 
residents  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area. 

Comment  #28 

"Home  Depot  is  known  for  their  predatory  market  practices.  We  have  many  viable  businesses  that 
are  directly  threatened.  Home  Depot  is  not  a  local  business.  Profits  do  not  circulate  in  our 
community,  they  go  back  to  Atlanta."  (Jean  Fontana,  Resident) 

"Home  Depot  has  a  history  of  coming  into  an  area,  pricing  its  goods  so  that  they  undercut 
neighboring  hardware  stores,  and  within  a  few  years  they  are  all  out  of  business. "  (Sue  C.  Hestor, 
Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #28 

The  commenters  have  not  provided  any  information  to  substantiate  their  allegations 
regarding  the  history  of  Home  Depot  pricing  practices.  The  commenters  have  not  provided, 
nor  is  the  City  aware  of,  any  information  suggesting  that  any  potential  economic  effects  of 
the  proposed  project  would,  in  turn,  cause  environmental  impacts. 

According  to  Section  15131  of  the  CEQA  Guidelines,  "economic  or  social  information  may 
be  included  in  an  EIR  or  may  be  presented  in  whatever  form  the  agency  desires.  "  Section 
15131(a)  states,  "economic  or  social  effects  of  a  project  shall  not  be  treated  as  significant 
effects  on  the  environment.  An  EIR  may  trace  a  chain  of  cause  and  effect  from  a  proposed 
decision  on  a  project  through  anticipated  economic  or  social  changes  resulting  from  the 
project  to  physical  changes  caused  in  turn  by  the  economic  or  social  changes.  The 
intermediate  economic  or  social  changes  need  not  be  analyzed  in  any  detail  greater  than 
necessary  to  trace  the  chain  of  cause  and  effect.  The  focus  of  the  analysis  shall  be  on  the 
physical  changes.  "  Section  15131(b)  states  in  part,  "economic  or  social  effects  of  a  project 
may  be  used  to  determine  the  significance  of  physical  changes  caused  by  the  project.  " 

In  other  words,  the  economic  or  social  impacts  of  the  proposed  project  are  not  relevant  to  the 
analysis  of  environmental  impacts,  and  thus  need  not  be  evaluated  in  an  EIR,  unless  there  is 
evidence  that  the  economic  or  social  effects  of  the  project  would  produce  significant 
environmental  impacts,  such  as  urban  decay.    It  is  unlikely  that  any  potential  economic 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.70 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

impacts  of  the  proposed  project  will  result  in  environmental  impacts,  such  as  urban  decay. 
This  conclusion  is  based  on  the  results  of  two  economic  studies  examining  the  potential  fiscal 
impacts  of  the  proposed  project. 

The  Sedway  Group  prepared  an  economic  impact  report  for  the  project  sponsor  in  January 
2002  that  examined  the  potential  fiscal  and  economic  impacts  of  the  proposed  store.9  The 
2002  Sedway  Study  is  included  in  Appendix  E  (as  Exhibit  C  to  the  Anna  C.  Shimko  Letter 
dated  July  11,  2003)  to  this  document.  In  February  2005,  it  prepared  an  update  to  that 
economic  impact  report  (the  "Sedway  Study")  to  reflect  current  economic  conditions, 
including  a  planned  Home  Depot  in  Daly  City.10  The  Planning  Department  had  the  Sedway 
Study  peer-reviewed  by  Economic  Planning  Systems,  an  economic  consulting  firm  (the  "EPS 
Study").11  The  EPS  Study  concurred  with  the  conclusions  in  the  Sedway  Study.  These 
reports  are  summarized  below.  Based  on  the  conclusions  found  in  these  studies,  neither 
physical  deterioration  of  existing  commercial  areas  and/or  urban  decay  would  be  a  likely  or 
reasonably  foreseeable  result  of  the  proposed  project. 

The  updated  Sedway  Study  estimated  that  San  Francisco  currently  loses  approximately  $360 
million  each  year  in  building  materials  sales.  The  Sedway  Study  also  estimates  that  the 
proposed  store  would  be  expected  to  average  about  $45  million  in  building  materials  sales. 
On  the  basis  of  this  study,  San  Francisco  could  continue  to  lose  over  $300  million  a  year  of 
potential  building  materials  sales  to  stores  outside  the  City  limits  even  with  the  proposed 
project.  In  other  words,  even  with  the  proposed  project,  San  Francisco  residents  would 
demand  larger  amounts  of  building  materials  than  the  proposed  project  could  supply. 
Likewise,  San  Francisco  residents  are  likely  to  demand  larger  amounts  of  garden  supplies 
than  the  proposed  project  plus  all  the  other  garden  supply  retailers  in  the  City  could  supply. 


9  Sedway  Group,  Economic  Impacts  of  Proposed  San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Store,  January  2002.  This  report  is  on 
file  and  available  for  review  by  appointment  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street,  Fifth 
Floor,  San  Francisco,  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E. 

10  Sedway  Group,  Economic  Impacts  of  Proposed  San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Store,  February  2005.  This  report  is 
on  file  and  available  for  review  by  appointment  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street, 
Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco,  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E. 

11  Economic  and  Planning  Systems,  San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Study  Peer  Review,  June  22,  2005.  This  report  is 
on  file  and  available  for  review  by  appointment  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street, 
Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco,  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.71 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

The  Sedway  Study  noted  that  San  Francisco  attracts  customers  from  outside  the  City  limits  in 
the  following  sales  categories,  all  of  which  are  sold  as  part  of  Home  Depot's  retail 
operations:  home  furnishing;  plumbing  and  electrical  supplies;  and  paint,  glass  and 
wallpaper.  It  may  be  possible  that  Home  Depot  would  attract  some  percentage  of  the  dollars 
spent  in  these  categories  that  would  otherwise  have  gone  to  existing  retailers  in  the  City.  The 
Sedway  Study  estimated  that,  in  a  worst-case  scenario  (i.e.,  where  each  dollar  earned  by 
Home  Depot  in  these  categories  is  a  dollar  lost  by  existing  retailers  within  San  Francisco),  the 
maximum  loss  in  sales  that  existing  stores  would  experience  in  the  home  furnishing; 
plumbing  and  electrical  supplies;  and  paint,  glass  and  wallpaper  categories  would  be 
approximately  3.5  percent,  11.4  percent,  and  19.3  percent,  respectively.  The  Sedway  Study 
suggests  that  there  could  be  factors  that  could  lower  the  potential  sales  losses  such  as:  1) 
other  businesses  could  specialize  in  certain  types  of  products  not  carried  by  Home  Depot;  2) 
they  could  improve  their  customer  service;  3)  they  could  enhance  their  marketing  activities; 
and/or  4)  they  could  benefit  from  trends  of  rising  demand  for  such  products. 

The  Sedway  Study  further  found  that  any  economic  impacts  from  the  currently  planned 
Home  Depot  in  Daly  City  would  not  result  in  environmental  impacts  such  as  long-term 
economic  decay  or  blight.  Sedway  calculated  that  Daly  City  itself  is  losing  money  to  non- 
local stores  in  each  of  the  home  improvement  categories  that  Home  Depot  sells,  totaling  over 
$134  million  in  lost  sales  per  year.  According  to  the  Sedway  Study,  when  the  Home  Depot  is 
constructed  in  Daly  City,  there  would  still  be  leakage  of  approximately  $100  million  in  home 
improvement  sales  to  stores  outside  of  Daly  City.  This  would  imply  that  Daly  City  residents 
currently  demand  far  more  home  improvement  goods  than  that  city  can  supply,  so  the  Home 
Depot  to  be  constructed  in  Daly  City  would  recapture  Daly  City's  demand,  not  cause 
additional  leakage  from  or  possible  store  closures  in  San  Francisco.  Even  when  considered 
in  conjunction  with  the  planned  Daly  City  store,  the  Sedway  Study  concluded  that  the 
proposed  project  would  not  contribute  to  physical  deterioration  and/or  urban  decay. 

The  EPS  Study  generally  concurred  with  these  conclusions,  and  found  that  even  if  sales  at  the 
proposed  Home  Depot  were  stronger  than  expected,  or  even  if  all  of  Home  Depot's  sales  were 
derived  from  stores  currently  operating  in  San  Francisco,  the  amount  of  leakage  to  stores 
outside  San  Francisco  ($291  million)  represents  a  very  large  under-served  market  that  other 
retailers  could  serve,  even  if  it  requires  re-merchandising  or  re-positioning  of  existing  stores. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.72 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 


The  EPS  study  noted  that  it  is  possible  that  certain  retail  properties,  particularly  larger 
properties  or  those  in  lower-income  areas  may  be  more  difficult  to  re-tenant  if  they  should 
close.  However,  market  demand  for  housing  and  retail  space  in  San  Francisco  is  strong,  and 
commercial  and  industrial  space  demand  is  projected  to  increase.  Thus,  long-term  vacancies 
are  unlikely,  since  most  space  will  be  either  re-tenanted  or  positioned  for  alternative  uses. 
The  EPS  study  therefore  concurred  with  the  Sedway  Report's  conclusion  that  the  introduction 
of  Home  Depot  is  not  likely  to  result  in  long-term  vacancies  or  urban  decay  in  San  Francisco. 

As  noted  in  Response  to  Comment  #24,  in  order  to  confirm  a  connection  between  the 
economic  or  social  effects  of  the  proposed  project  to  environmental  impacts,  there  must  be 
evidence  that  the  operation  of  the  proposed  project  would  result  in  the  closure  of  competing 
retail  stores,  that  the  space  occupied  by  such  closed  stores  would  not  be  reused  within  a 
reasonable  time,  and  that  the  long-term  vacancy  of  the  space  would  result  in  physical 
deterioration  or  urban  decay.  No  evidence  has  been  presented  by  the  commenter  that 
identifies  a  chain  of  events  linking  the  project  sponsor's  store,  alone  or  in  conjunction  with 
the  planned  Home  Depot  store  in  Daly  City,  to  an  adverse  impact  on  existing  retail  stores, 
which  would  result  in  an  environmental  impact.  As  discussed  in  Response  to  Comment  #24, 
the  economic  effects  of  a  project  are  not  treated  as  significant  effects  on  the  environment 
unless  there  is  a  chain  of  events  linking  the  economic  effects  to  environmental  effects  such  as 
physical  deterioration  or  urban  decay.  The  Sedway  Study  found,  and  the  EPS  study 
concurred,  that  while  some  stores  might  experience  a  decline  in  sales,  even  if  such  stores 
were  to  close,  the  introduction  of  the  proposed  Home  Depot  is  not  likely  to  result  in  long- 
term  vacancies,  due  to  the  market  demand  for  housing  and  retail  space,  and  projected  growth 
in  the  demand  for  commercial  and  industrial  space  in  San  Francisco. 

Comment  #29 

"The  City  is  compelled  to  discourage  development  that  has  substantial  undesirable  consequences  that 
cannot  be  mitigated.1"  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot 
Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing 
Coordinator) 

1  DEIR,  page  40. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.73 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

Response  #29 

The  commenter  references  Objective  1,  Policy  1  of  the  Commerce  and  Industry  Element  of 
the  San  Francisco  General  Plan,  which  states  that  the  City  should  "encourage  development 
which  provides  substantial  net  benefits  and  minimizes  undesirable  consequences.  Discourage 
development  which  has  substantial  undesirable  consequences  that  cannot  be  mitigated." 

The  DEIR  identifies  relevant  objectives  and  policies  of  the  General  Plan  that  the  Planning 
Commission  would  consider  independently  of  the  environmental  review  process,  as  part  of 
the  decision  whether  to  approve  or  disapprove  the  proposed  project. 


Other  Plans  and  Policies 

Comment  #30 

"This  EIR  is  flawed  because  it  doesn't  take  into  account  the  City  Planning  Department's  stated  plans 
to  rezone  all  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  encourage  big  box  development. 

"But  I  don't  think  any  of  the  dozens  and  dozens  of  us  who  are  here  today  to  oppose  this  project  want 
Bayshore  to  stay  the  way  it  is.  Far  from  it.  I,  for  one,  am  strongly  in  favor  of  development  along 
Bayshore;  it's  run  down,  ugly,  and  underutilized. 

"However,  this  kind  of  development  is  wrong  for  Bayshore.  Instead,  Bayshore  could  and  should  be 
developed  as  a  mixed-use  corridor,  much  like  parts  of  Geary  Boulevard.  There,  commercial  uses 
coexist  with  apartments  on  the  upper  floors,  and  a  street  which  carries  a  significant  amount  of  traffic 
and  of  course  the  busiest  line  in  the  Muni  system.  We  need  housing,  not  more  traffic. 

"In  2001,  I  participated  in  community  planning  workshops  along  with  hundreds  of  other  neighbors 
from  Bernal  Heights,  Bayview,  and  the  Mission.  No  one  there  wanted  Bayshore  to  be  a  dumping 
ground  for  big  box  stores  and  traffic.   Please  reject  Home  Depot  at  this  inappropriate  location." 

(Shannon  Dodge,  Resident) 

"The  [Cortland  Merchants  Association]  CMA  also  realize  that  it  would  be  short-sighted  and  poor 
planning  indeed  to  approve  the  140,000  SF  project,  effectively  exhausting  the  environmental  criteria 
so  as  to  prevent  the  predictable  development  of  future  sites  along  Bayshore  Boulevard.  This  would 
deny  the  future,  like  eating  the  seed  corn. 

"And  we  are  having  growing  pains.  The  CMA  is  already  responding  to  concerns  about  parking, 
traffic  calming,  inadequate  street  lighting,  unpainted  pedestrian  school  crossings,  sidewalk  cleaning, 
tree  planting,  and  neighborhood  beautification.  These  issues  are  our  priorities.  We  respectfully 
request  that  you  not  approve  any  plan  that  would  disproportionately  further  burden  our  community. 
Not  only  our  quality  of  life,  but  the  character  of  our  community  is  in  jeopardy.  We  ask  you  to  protect 
the  nature  and  character  of  our  community  as  vigilantly  as  our  air  quality  standards. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.74 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

"On  the  other  hand,  we  support  a  (generic)  development  of  the  site.  Any  development  of  this  site 
should  require  that  we  all,  and  by  'we  all'  I  mean:  the  Bernal  Heights  community  (residents, 
merchants,  customers,  religious  and  community  organizations),  the  other  San  Francisco 
communities,  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  Board 
of  Supervisors  and  Administration,  and  of  course  the  developer,  need  to  come  to  a  written  agreement 
that  Bernal  Heights  and  Bayview  deserve  priority  access  to  funds  and  programs  regarding  traffic 
calming,  parking,  affordable  housing,  jobs,  and  neighborhood  beautification.  We  are  the  immediate 
communities.  Help  us  move  farther  toward  the  realization  of  our  goals  as  already  defined.  Help  us 
preserve  and  protect  the  neighborhood  that  we  cherish.  Let's  work  together  for  our  mutual  benefit." 
(Michael  Grafton  and  David  Ayoob,  Co-Presidents,  Cortland  Merchants  Association) 

"Page  34  [of  the  DEIR:]  Please  explain  the  relation  of  this  project  to  the  Redevelopment  Agency  and 
the  Agency's  role  thereon. 

"Pages  35  and  37  [of  the  DEIR:]  There  is  a  difference  between  a  neighborhood  and  a  planning  area. 
The  industrial  area  in  which  this  site  is  situated  is  between  two  neighborhoods  -  Bernal  Heights  and 
Bayview  Hunters  Point  -  and  is  near  another  neighborhood  -  Portola. 

"Please  explain  all  of  the  planning  studies  underway  for  this  site,  including  that  of  the  Planning 
Department.  The  Department  has  released  three  alternative  development  scenarios  for  the  Bayshore 
corridor.  They  involve  zoning  which  allows  big  box  facilities  the  length  of  Bayshore  between 
Jerrold  and  Highway  280.  One  alternative  is  two  blocks  deep.  This  rezoning  proposal  must  be 
discussed  since  it  has  a  major  impact  on  cumulative  development  and  cumulative  traffic.  In  other 
words,  there  is  more  than  the  Redevelopment  Concept  Plan  at  work  here."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney 
at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #30 

Over  the  past  three  decades,  planning  efforts  have  been  initiated  and  continue  to  be  pursued 
in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area,  as  well  as  other  Eastern  Neighborhoods  (Showplace 
Square/Potrero  Hill,  Mission,  and  South  of  Market).  These  planning  efforts  have  been 
undertaken  primarily  by  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  and  the  Redevelopment 
Agency,  with  citizen  input,  and  the  BVHP-PAC.  Some  of  these  planning  efforts  have 
resulted  in  planning  and  redevelopment  documents.  The  Planning  Commission  would  review 
the  redevelopment  plan  for  the  area  and  would  need  to  determine  if  the  plan  would  conform 
to  the  General  Plan.  At  present,  responsibility  for  approval  or  denial  of  the  proposed  project 
rests  with  the  Planning  Commission.  Certification  of  the  EIR  by  the  Planning  Commission  is 
appealable  to  the  Board  of  Supervisors.  The  project  is  not  subject  to  the  approval  of  the  San 
Francisco  Redevelopment  Agency  because  no  final  redevelopment  plan  has  yet  been  adopted 
for  the  area.  Even  if  a  redevelopment  plan  for  the  area  in  which  the  project  is  located  were 
adopted,  the  Planning  Department  would  be  the  approval  body  for  the  area.  Therefore,  the 
project  is  solely  within  the  Planning  Commission's  jurisdiction. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.75 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

San  Francisco  Redevelopment  Agency  Plans 

One  of  the  earliest  efforts  in  the  area  was  the  Redevelopment  Agency's  Hunters  Point 
Redevelopment  Plan,  originally  approved  and  adopted  by  the  Board  of  Supervisors  in 
January  1969  with  later  amendments  adopted  in  August  1970,  December  1986,  and 
December  1994.  On  December  12,  1994,  the  life  of  the  plan  was  extended  to  the  year  2019. 
The  Redevelopment  Plan  was  primarily  residential,  based  on  a  Master  Plan  by  Aaron  G. 
Green,  architect,  and  it  included  community  facilities  and  improved  street  patterns.  The  plan 
covered  only  a  small  area  in  Hunters  Point,  and  the  proposed  Home  Depot  site  is  not  in  the 
plan  area. 

State  law  requires  that  a  survey  area  be  designated  prior  to  the  initiation  of  any 
redevelopment  effort  within  that  area.  The  Redevelopment  Agency  identified  a  survey  area, 
which  included  essentially  all  of  the  area  south  of  Army  Street  (renamed  Cesar  Chavez 
Street)  and  east  of  U.S.  101  in  the  January  1995  South  Bayshore  Survey  Area.  The  project 
site  was  included  in  the  survey  area. 

During  the  next  seven  years,  the  San  Francisco  Redevelopment  Agency  worked  with  the 
community  to  identify  economic  and  physical  problems  in  the  survey  area,  and  determined 
that  redevelopment  is  an  appropriate  method  to  address  those  problems.  As  a  part  of  this 
evaluation,  in  200 1 ,  a  Concept  Plan  for  the  area  was  prepared  to  address  the  issues  that  are 
important  to  the  survey  area's  revitalization.  The  proposed  project  site  was  shown  in  the 
Concept  Plan  as  part  of  a  sub-area  proposed  for  continued  industrial  and  various  types  of 
commercial  use. 

In  October  2003,  the  Preliminary  Redevelopment  Plan  for  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
Redevelopment  Area  was  prepared  by  the  Redevelopment  Agency.  The  Preliminary  Plan 
called  for  changes  to  the  existing  zoning  to  allow  for  a  mix  of  industrial  and  commercial  uses 
in  the  redevelopment  area.  The  project  site  is  designated  in  the  Preliminary  Plan  for 
commercial  use.  The  proposed  project  site  has  a  general  zoning  designation  in  the 
Preliminary  Plan  for  production,  distribution  and  repair  (PDR)  and  large  commercial  use, 
however,  the  specifics  of  the  actual  zoning  controls  have  yet  to  be  determined. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.76 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

In  March  2003,  a  document  titled  Draft  Framework  Housing  Program/Bayview  Hunters 
Point  Redevelopment  Project  was  prepared  by  the  Redevelopment  Agency  and  the  BVHP- 
PAC.  Prepared  as  a  specific  guide  for  housing  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area  prior  to  the 
implementation  of  the  new  Redevelopment  Plan,  the  Housing  Program  document  recognized 
that  the  Redevelopment  Plan,  the  Planning  Code  and  the  Zoning  Maps  would  control  the 
specific  use  of  the  buildings  in  the  area;  and  in  the  event  of  a  conflict,  the  Redevelopment 
Plan  would  govern.  The  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Redevelopment  Projects  &  Activity  Nodes 
Map,  October  2003,  designates  the  project  site  as  PDR  for  commercial  use  in  the  "Oakinba" 
area,  a  designation  for  the  area  bounded  by  Oakdale  Avenue,  Industrial  Street,  and  Bayshore 
Boulevard. 

An  EIR  for  the  preliminary  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Redevelopment  Area  Plan  is  currently 
being  prepared,  and  is  expected  to  be  certified  sometime  in  2005.  A  final  redevelopment 
plan  is  being  developed  while  that  environmental  review  is  under  way,  and  after  certification 
of  the  EIR,  any  necessary  General  Plan  amendments  would  be  considered  and  adopted  or 
rejected.  Redevelopment  plans  are  reviewed  and  approved  by  the  Redevelopment 
Commission  and  approved  and  adopted  by  the  Board  of  Supervisors.  After  the  final  Bayview 
Hunters  Point  Redevelopment  Area  Plan  is  developed,  the  Redevelopment  Commission 
would  review  and  adopt  or  reject  the  plan.  The  Planning  Commission  must  find  it  to  be  in 
conformance  with  the  City's  General  Plan,  and  notify  the  Board  of  Supervisors  of  its 
findings.  The  Board  of  Supervisors  would  then  consider  the  redevelopment  plan,  and  can 
either  adopt,  modify,  or  reject  it. 

Planning  Department  Plans 

In  July  1995,  the  Planning  Commission  adopted  the  South  Bayshore  Area  Plan  as  part  of  the 
General  Plan.  This  area  plan  covers  the  same  general  area  as  the  Redevelopment  South 
Bayshore  Survey  Area.  The  Home  Depot  site  is  in  a  Subdistrict  called  the  Northern 
Industrial  Area  and  is  designated  for  light  industrial  land  use.  As  noted  in  Response  to 
Comment  #27,  a  section  has  been  added  to  the  DEIR  regarding  the  South  Bayshore  Area 
Plan  Element. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./196  Loomis  Street 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

In  late  2001,  the  Planning  Commission  directed  the  Planning  Department  to  initiate  the 
Eastern  Neighborhoods  community  planning  process  which  included  the  neighborhoods  of 
Bayview  Hunters  Point,  Showplace  Square/Potrero  Hill,  Mission  and  South  of  Market.  The 
purpose  of  this  process  was  to  address  the  broad  range  of  issues  involved  in  formulating 
permanent  controls  on  the  City's  last  remaining  industrially  zoned  lands  and  its  surrounding 
residential  and  commercial  neighborhoods.  The  purpose  of  the  community  process  was  to 
work  collaboratively  with  the  neighborhoods  in  the  vicinity  of  these  industrially  zoned  lands 
to  develop  rezoning  proposals  that  achieve  both  neighborhood  and  citywide  land  use  goals. 
In  early  2002,  the  Planning  Department  initiated  a  series  of  workshops  in  these 
neighborhoods.  Through  the  public  workshop  process,  participants  grappled  with  how  the 
area's  industrially  zoned  land  should  be  used  in  the  future.  One  of  the  goals  of  this  process 
was  to  develop  a  new  set  of  zoning  regulations  for  the  broader  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Area, 
including  the  project  site.  In  February  2003,  the  Planning  Department  published  the 
Community  Planning  in  the  Eastern  Neighborhoods,  Rezoning  Options  Workbook  -  First 
Draft  ("Workbook").  This  document  proposes  to  replace  M-l  and  M-2  zoning  with  new 
production,  distribution  and  repair  (PDR)  districts.  The  PDR  designation  has  four  levels: 

Light  PDR.  Includes  auto  repair,  small  catering  services,  graphic  design,  small  radio 
stations  and  small  messenger  operations,  and  are  considered  to  be  compatible  with  residential 
uses.  They  would  generally  be  about  4,500  square  feet. 

Medium  PDR.  Includes  printers  and  publishers,  showrooms,  landscaping  and  horticultural 
services,  film  producers  and  catering.  These  uses  would  be  smaller  than  10,000  square  feet. 

Large  Commercial  PDR.  Includes  large  retail  activities,  including  some  "Big  Box" 
operations  with  large  parking  areas  and  access  to  the  freeway. 

Core  PDR.  Includes  trucking  operations,  apparel  manufacturing,  distribution  centers  for 
produce,  canned  food,  vegetables,  meat,  seafood,  and  flowers;  suppliers  of  materials  used  in 
the  construction  industry  -  lumber,  pipes,  large  equipment  rentals,  and  electrical;  large 
showrooms,  paper  manufacturing  and  large  publishing.  These  uses  would  need  large 
floorplates. 

The  Workbook  puts  forward  three  zoning  options  for  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Community 
Planning  Area,  basically  differing  in  terms  of  the  amount  of  area  and  density  designated  for 
PDR  and  housing  uses.  The  Home  Depot  site,  which  is  currently  zoned  M-l-Light  Industrial, 
is  proposed  to  be  zoned  as  follows  in  one  of  these  three  zoning  options  with  a  proposed 
height  limit  of  50  to  55  feet: 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.78 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 


Options 

Proposed  Zoning 

Option  A 

Core  PDR 

Option  B 

Large  Commercial/PDR 

Option  C 

Large  Commercial/PDR 

The  Planning  Commission's  consideration  of  the  options  for  each  neighborhood  may  refine 
these  options  or  develop  new  ones  using  ideas  presented  in  the  overall  spectrum  of  options. 
The  main  options  for  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  would  be  forged  into  a  proposed  rezoning 
for  the  Redevelopment  Area  and  become  part  of  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Redevelopment 
Area  Plan.  The  EIR  certification  and  plan  adoption  is  expected  to  occur  in  2005  or  2006. 

Neither  the  Redevelopment  Agency  nor  the  Planning  Department  have  an  official  definition 
of  "Big  Box  Retail;"  nor  is  it  designated  in  any  of  the  Workbook  zoning  options.  This  is  an 
unofficial  term  that  is  not  in  the  actual  planning  nomenclature. 

PDR  and  large  commercial  uses  are  currently  permitted  by  the  Planning  Code,  however  the 
Planning  Department  does  not  actively  encourage  "Big  Box  Retail"  or  "Big  Box  Alley."  The 
Eastern  Neighborhoods  Workbook  calls  for  conditional  use  authorization  for  any  project 
above  40,000  gross  square  feet. 

Comment  #3 1 

"Pages  35  and  37  [of  the  DEIR:]  The  Redevelopment  Agency  cannot  designate  a  redevelopment 
area  without  a  finding  of  blight.  They  have  not  yet  made  such  a  finding  for  this  area.  Although  Ms. 
Zimmerman  has  (apparently  consciously)  allowed  this  site,  and  her  adjacent  properties  to  deteriorate, 
ironically,  the  development  of  this  site  with  a  Home  Depot  may  adversely  affect  the  Agency's  ability 
to  make  a  finding  of  blight  and  therefore  put  this  site  into  a  Redevelopment  area.  If  that  does  not 
occur,  the  zoning  pursuant  to  the  Planning  Code  will  be  operative."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law, 
on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware,  written  comments) 

"The  cover  of  the  EIR  is  the  first  page  I  want  to  direct  your  attention  to.  What  it  shows  is  the  site. 
What  it  doesn't  show  you  is  how  blighted  the  site  is,  because  the  applicant  for  this  project  is  not  only 
Home  Depot;  it  is  Joan  Goodman  Zimmerman,  one  of  the  Goodman  children,  who  basically  forced 
the  closure  of  the  store  and  has  not  maintained  the  site.  Ironically,  if  this  site  is  developed  it  will 
make  it  even  harder  for  the  Redevelopment  Agency  to  justify  a  redevelopment  area  for  this  area, 
because  they  haven't  made  a  finding  of  blight,  and  the  blighted  conditions  are  the  conditions  caused 
by  this  owner."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware,  oral  testimony) 

2001.0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./l 96  Loomis  Street 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLIANCE,  AND  ZONING 

Response  #3 1 

The  project  site  is  currently  vacant  as  shown  on  the  cover  of  the  DEIR  and  in  Figures  8  and  9, 
pages  38  and  39.  Additionally,  Figures  C&R.2  through  C&R.5  have  been  provided  for 
informational  purposes  that  show  project  photo  simulations  with  insets  of  existing  conditions 
(see  Response  to  Comment  #1).  As  noted  in  Response  to  Comment  #30,  the  designation  of 
the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Redevelopment  Area  and  a  blight  study  are  still  in  process.  The 
proposed  project  would  conform  to  the  existing  Planning  Code  and  the  proposed 
Redevelopment  land  use  designation  for  the  proposed  project  site. 


Zoning 

Comment  #32 

"Pages  41  and  42  [of  the  DEIR:]  Again,  you  ignore  the  planning  process  underway  at  the  Planning 
Department  for  industrial  zones.  Please  explain  whether  this  project  will  be  paying  the  JHLP  [Jobs- 
Housing  Linkage  Program]  fee.  In  its  original  application,  the  sponsor  had  manipulated  the  square 
footage  calculations  so  that  they  would  not  have  to  pay  any  fee  whatsoever.  Do  they  meet  the  net 
new  square  footage  threshold  for  retail?"  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole 
Hardware) 

Response  #32 

As  noted  on  page  42  of  the  DEIR,  the  proposed  construction  of  more  than  153,100  sq.ft.  of 
retail  space,  if  approved,  would  be  subject  to  the  application  of  the  Jobs-Housing  Linkage 
Program  (JHLP)  {Planning  Code  Sections  313.5  and  313.6),  which  would  require  the  project 
sponsor  to  construct  affordable  housing  or  to  pay  an  in-lieu  fee  for  development  of  affordable 
housing  by  others.  Also  see  Response  to  Comment  #30  regarding  ongoing  planning  efforts 
in  the  industrial-zoned  areas. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.80 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

EMPLOYMENT 

EMPLOYMENT 

Comment  #33 

"Day  Labor  Facilities:  At  various  points  in  the  discussion  of  day  labor  facilities,  the  Home  Depot 
site  was  mentioned  as  a  possible  location  for  day  laborers  to  come  to  connect  with  persons  looking  to 
hire  day  laborers.  Has  Home  Depot  been  in  any  discussions  about  this  issue?  If  day  laborers  were  to 
be  located  in  this  area,  where  would  they  be  sited?  If  there  was  no  formal  location,  but  people  came 
anyway,  they  would  presumably  be  on  Bayshore.  How  would  their  presence  affect  traffic  flow  and 
assumptions  of  congestion?"  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #33 

In  January  2003,  La  Raza  Centra  Legal  was  issued  a  Categorical  Exemption  from  the 
environmental  review  process  to  operate  a  number  of  services  for  day  laborers  at  3358  Cesar 
Chavez  Street  between  Mission  Street  and  South  Van  Ness  Avenue.12  The  proposal  was  to 
convert  the  ground  floor  of  an  existing  building  to  a  community  service  office,  which  would 
serve  the  San  Francisco  Day  Labor  Program  (DLP).  The  existing  office  at  17th  and 
Hampshire  Streets  relocated  to  the  new  facility  in  the  fall  of  2004.  The  day  laborers 
congregating  on  Cesar  Chavez  Street  would  be  able  to  use  the  services  of  the  DLP,  which 
provides  job  coordination,  English  classes,  employment  counseling,  and  other  worker- 
oriented  services.13  Cesar  Chavez  Street  is  over  a  mile  north  of  the  project  site. 

Representatives  of  Home  Depot  have  been  approached  by  concerned  members  of  the  public 
several  times  during  the  past  several  years  regarding  how  the  proposed  project  would  relate 
to  the  day  labor  issue  in  San  Francisco.  Home  Depot  has  indicated  its  willingness  to  work 
with  the  City  regarding  the  day  labor  issue.  Home  Depot  has  no  plans  to  create  a  day  labor 
center  at  or  near  the  project  site  due  to  site  constraints  and  liability  issues.  If  day  laborers 
congregate  on  the  project  site  and  become  a  nuisance,  Home  Depot  would  escort  the  laborers 
off  its  property  and  would  also  rely  on  law  enforcement  as  necessary  to  ensure  that  they  do 
not  congregate  on  sidewalks  and  in  streets.  In  the  event  that  day  laborers  persist  in 
congregating  outside  the  store,  there  could  be  a  potential  for  conflict  between  pedestrians  and 


Certification  of  Determination  of  Exemption/Exclusion  from  Environmental  Review,  San  Francisco  Day  Labor 
Program,  January  8,  2003.  This  document  is  on  file  and  available  for  review  by  appointment  at  the  San  Francisco 
Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street,  Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco,  reference  3358  Cesar  Chavez  Street, 
January  8,  2003. 

13  Monica  Garcia,  La  Raza  Centro  Legal,  telephone  conversation,  August  31,  2004. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.81 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

EMPLOYMENT 

traffic,  as  well  as  potential  traffic  disruptions  associated  with  vehicles  stopping  to  solicit 
services  from  day  laborers.  However,  these  potential  effects  would  not  be  significant. 

CEQA  Section  15064(d)(3)  states  an  "indirect  physical  change  is  to  be  considered  only  if 
that  change  is  a  reasonably  foreseeable  impact  which  may  be  caused  by  the  project.  A 
change  which  is  speculative  or  unlikely  to  occur  is  not  reasonably  foreseeable. "  The  future 
existence  of  a  day  labor  center  at  the  proposed  project  site  is  highly  speculative.  Therefore, 
the  DEIR  did  not  evaluate  the  possible  pedestrian,  traffic  or  other  environmental  impacts  of  a 
day  labor  center. 

Comment  #34 

"Page  1 1  [of  the  DEIR]:  There  is  no  verifiable  source  of  information  for  the  following  statement:  'It 
is  anticipated  that  most  of  the  new  employees  would  already  reside  in  San  Francisco,  while  some 
employees  from  outside  the  City  may  seek  housing  within  the  City  boundaries.' 

"What  is  the  basis  for  expecting  most  new  employees  to  be  San  Francisco  residents,  especially  given 
the  high  cost  of  housing  in  San  Francisco  and  the  very  low  wages  paid  by  Home  Depot  to  most 
employees?  What  is  the  level  of  housing  costs  that  entry-level  full-time  Home  Depot  employees  can 
afford  at  30  percent  of  their  income?  How  does  this  compare  to  the  median  costs  of  housing  in  San 
Francisco  for  a  family  of  four?  What  is  the  vacancy  rate  for  housing  that  the  average  Home  Depot 
employee  could  afford?  How  far  will  workers  have  to  travel  to  find  housing  they  can  afford? 

"And  how  does  the  assumption  that  so  many  employees  will  live  in  San  Francisco  cause  air  pollution 
impacts  to  be  understated?"  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot 
Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing 
Coordinator) 

"What  is  the  basis  for  the  project  sponsor's  statement  that  most  employees  would  already  reside  in 
San  Francisco?"  (Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing 
Coordinator) 

Response  #34 

On  page  A- 13  of  the  Initial  Study  in  Appendix  A  of  the  DEIR,  it  states  that  the  proposed 
project  would  be  expected  to  fill  the  employment  openings  from  the  existing  City  and 
regional  labor  pool.  Based  on  information  regarding  the  residences  of  employees  at  other 
Home  Depot  stores  in  the  Bay  Area,  the  project  sponsor  anticipates  that  future  employees  at 
the  proposed  project  would  already  live  in  the  City  or  nearby.  The  project  sponsor  is  also 
working  with  community  groups  to  coordinate  job  opportunities  for  local  residents  and  has 
signed  a  First  Source  hiring  agreement  with  the  City  of  San  Francisco  to  provide  employment 
for  community  residents  (see  Response  to  Comment  #15).    As  noted  in  Response  to 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.82 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

EMPLOYMENT 

Comment  #157,  starting  salaries  at  the  proposed  store  would  average  $11  to  $13  per  hour  for 
employees  with  no  experience,  which  is  higher  than  San  Francisco's  Minimum  Compensation 
Pay  Rate  applying  to  larger  for-profit  employers  ($10.77  per  hour),  and  also  higher  than  the 
Federal  Minimum  Wage  ($5.15  per  hour)  and  California's  Minimum  Wage  ($8.50  per  hour). 
Employees  with  extensive  experience  in  a  trade  may  be  eligible  to  receive  a  higher  starting 
salary. 

The  analysis  of  air  quality  impacts  was  based  on  the  generation  of  vehicle-trips  that  was 
determined  by  surveys  of  other  Home  Depot  stores  that  included  store  size  and  numbers  of 
customers  and  employees.  The  air  quality  analysis  considered  the  average  vehicle  trip  length 
(among  other  factors)  in  the  computer  modeling  of  air  quality  impacts.  Most  of  the  project- 
generated  vehicle  trips  would  be  customer  trips  and  not  employee  trips.  The  DEIR  did  not 
assume  that  air  quality  impacts  would  be  directly  affected  by  the  location  of  employee 
residences.  It  is  possible  that  if  employees  were  to  live  nearby,  they  might  be  commuting  to 
work  at  shorter  distances  that  could  lower  the  trip  length,  which  in  turn  could  lower  the 
overall  air  quality  impacts  of  the  project.  The  air  quality  analysis  in  the  DEIR,  however,  did 
not  consider  this  factor.  It  is  also  possible  that  employees  would  be  commuting  to  work  at 
longer  distances  that  could  increase  trip  length,  which  in  turn  could  raise  the  overall  air 
quality  impacts  of  the  project;  however,  for  the  reasons  discussed  above,  it  is  anticipated  that 
potential  employees  would  live  in  the  City  or  nearby  and  would  not  be  commuting  at  longer 
distances. 

Comment  #35 

"I  have  gone  to  Home  Depot.  It  is  kind  of  an  experience  where  you  really  have  to  fend  for  yourself, 
and  really  know  what  you  want  going  in.  The  salespeople  really  are  not  trained  for  a  vocation  for  the 
future.  These  are  dead-end  jobs.  I'm  sure  there  is  some  sort  of  establishment  that  you  can  put  in  there 
that  can  really  address  youth's  needs  for  employment,  so  they  can  build  a  vocation  for  the  future. 
This  does  not  do  that."  (Dory  Steinberg,  Resident) 

Response  #35 

As  noted  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  1  and  2,  and  on  pages  A-l  1  and  A- 13  in  Appendix  A  of  the 
DEIR,  the  site  is  currently  vacant  and  the  project  would  generate  new  employment 
opportunities.  As  described  in  Response  to  Comment  #15,  Home  Depot  has  entered  into  a 
First  Source  hiring  agreement  aimed  at  training  and  employing  at  least  150  residents  from  the 


200 1 .0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.83 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

EMPLOYMENT 

community.  In  addition,  the  project  sponsor  would  require  the  general  contractor  for  the 
construction  of  the  store  to  ensure  that  at  least  50  percent  of  the  person-hours  spent  to 
construct  the  store  would  be  performed  by  San  Francisco  residents.  The  issue  of  employment 
practices  by  the  project  sponsor  is  beyond  the  scope  of  the  CEQA-required  environmental 
analysis.  However,  for  informational  purposes,  their  employment  practices  are  discussed  in 
this  chapter,  pages  C&R.81  to  C&R.86,  and  the  Community  Commitments  the  project 
sponsor  has  made  regarding  hiring  is  included  in  this  Final  EIR  as  Appendix  G. 

Comment  #36 

"Page  11  [of  the  DEIR]:  Numbers  do  not  add  up.  The  EIR  estimates  the  daily  population  would 
increase  by  2,500  to  3,300  people  per  day,  comprised  of  75-100  employees  and  'as  many  as  2,500  to 
3,000  shoppers  per  day.'  The  maximum  total  of  shoppers  and  employees  is  3,100.  At  the  7/10/03 
public  hearing,  one  speaker  (Angelo  King)  stated  that  the  sponsor  is  now  acknowledging  that  this 
number  is  an  error.  What  is  the  correct  number  and  how  was  it  calculated?  What  data  provide  the 
basis  for  these  projections?  What  assumptions  were  used  in  making  this  projection?  We  need  to  be 
able  to  review  the  underlying  data  before  we  can  comment  on  the  accuracy  and/or  suitability  of  a 
corrected  employment  projection.  The  projection  of  customers  should  also  be  reviewed  since  it 
appears  to  conflict  with  traffic  projections  of  about  1,000  trips  just  in  the  peak  hour.  We  need  to 
review  the  data  and  methodology  for  this  projection  as  well."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant; 
Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights 
Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

"I'm  a  small  business  owner  of  the  Bayview.  Like  many  of  my  neighbors,  friends  and  associates  in 
Bayview  and  Bernal  communities,  I  share  the  desire  for  a  revitalized  Bayshore  corridor,  for  new 
commerce  and  growth,  and  a  home  improvement  supply  store.  In  evaluating  any  proposal  for  such  a 
store,  we  must  rely  on  the  accuracy  of  any  information  and  factual  data  in  order  to  make  the  best 
decisions  on  behalf  of  our  communities,  ourselves  and  on  behalf  of  the  larger  San  Francisco 
community.  After  reviewing  the  DEIR  before  us,  it  became  clear  that  a  number  of  inconsistencies 
formed  the  basis  of  the  criteria  used  for  the  conclusions  drawn.  Specifically,  on  page  1 1  [of  the  Draft 
EIR],  the  information  on  daily  population  presumes  a  hundred  daily  employees  and  3,000  shoppers 
per  day.  We  know  [from  our  lengthy  discussions  with  the  project  sponsor]  that  the  employment 
figure  is  actually  300  [three  times  the  stated  figure],  and  I  acknowledge  the  correction  made  this 
week  by  Home  Depot  -  that's  after  two  and  a  half  years  of  discussion.  Yet  some  numbers  do  not  add 
up.  Despite  my  repeated  request  of  the  project  sponsor  to  clarify  the  building  size  in  the  EIR 
documentation,  the  stated  156,000-square-foot  store  does  not  reflect  the  actual  226,000-square-foot 
store  and  included  parking  areas.  We  need  documentation  for  the  clarification.  It  was  recently  stated 
by  the  Home  Depot  architect  in  public  that,  quote:  'The  Bayshore  store  will  be  one  of  the  largest 
Home  Depot  stores  in  the  nation.'  If  the  100-daily-employee  figure  is  incorrect,  is  the  3,000  shopper- 
per-day  figure  -  which  is  the  basis  for  the  traffic  study  and  resulting  significant  impact  on  regional 
air  quality  -  also  accurate?"  (Daniel  Dodt,  Resident,  Chair  of  the  BVHP-PAC  Economic 
Development  Committee,  Member  of  the  Bayview  Merchants  Association  and  Revere  Avenue 
Residents  Association,  oral  testimony) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.84 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

EMPLOYMENT 

"The  resulting  traffic  and  parking  requirements  for  these  employees  are,  by  extension,  incorrectly 
noted  in  the  Draft  EIR  documentation.  See  the  related  conclusions  drawn  on  pages  6,  19,  21,  26,  58, 
70,  103,  117,  and  in  the  appendices.  I  acknowledge  the  correction  made  in  the  July  7,  2003  letter 
addressed  to  the  BVHP-PAC  by  the  project  representatives  on  this  point,  but  now  question  the 
validity  of  the  related  'daily  customer'  figure  of  3,000.  Traffic  and  environmental  impacts  are 
compounded  as  these  figures  increase.  The  project  sponsor  had  ample  opportunity  to  review  and 
clarify  the  accuracy  of  the  facts  submitted  in  preparation  of  the  draft  documentation,  in  my  opinion, 
and  the  misleading  information  contained  within  the  original  draft  is  not  acceptable. 

"Other  numbers  do  not  add  up:  Despite  my  repeated  requests  of  the  project  sponsor  to  correctly 
identify  the  physical  building  size  in  the  EIR,  the  stated  156,000  sf  size  (pages  2,  1 1,  25,  26,  42,  and 
appendices)  does  not  reflect  the  actual  226,000  sf  store  and  included  parking  areas.  It  was  recently 
stated  by  the  project  architect  that  the  Bayshore  store  would  'be  one  of  the  largest  stores  in  the  nation' 
by  this  company.  If  the  size  is  mis-stated,  the  100  daily  employee  figure  is  incorrect,  and  the  shopper 
per  day  figure,  which  is  the  basis  for  the  traffic  study  and  resulting  significant  impact  on  regional  air 
quality,  also  questionable,  how  can  we  rely  on  the  Draft  EIR  as  an  accurate  representation  of  the 
project  impacts? 

"We  should  be  given  the  opportunity  to  evaluate  this  proposed  development  based  on  accurate  data. 
It  would  be  irresponsible  of  us  as  citizens  and  planners  to  accept  this  document  as  written,  in  my 
opinion.  The  only  reasonable  action  as  a  conclusion  to  the  information  submitted  is  to  accept  the 
Alternate  A  or  Alternate  B  as  described  on  pages  1 16  and  1 17,  or  to  request  of  the  project  sponsor  a 
complete  re-submittal  of  the  Environmental  Impact  Report  with  accurate  and  up-to-date  information 
and  data.  I  respectfully  ask  that  you  reject  the  findings  contained  within  the  Draft  EIR  document. 
Thank  you  for  your  consideration."  (Daniel  Dodt,  Resident,  Chair  of  the  BVHP-PAC  Economic 
Development  Committee,  Member  of  the  Bayview  Merchants  Association  and  Revere  Avenue 
Residents  Association,  written  comments) 

"I  have  been  in  the  community  for  45  years,  and  there  are  some  concerns  regarding  the  EIR  that  I 
would  like  to  voice  at  this  time.  There  are  some  inaccuracies,  as  far  as  some  of  the  numbers  are 
concerned.  We  all  know  that.  There  are  several  of  them.  While  I  cannot  address  all  of  them,  there  is 
one  in  particular,  which  is  the  employment  number,  that  is  of  great  concern.  Now  I  applaud  Home 
Depot,  because  they  have  been  made  aware  of  this  inaccuracy,  and  have  stated  that  they  will  correct 
it.  However,  the  same  number  that  is  indicated  in  the  EIR  has  been  quoted  time  and  time  and  time 
again  at  community  meetings.  So  is  that  to  say  that  those  numbers  that  were  quoted  at  the 
community  meetings  were  also  inaccurate?  And  if  that's  the  case,  shouldn't  there  be  other 
community  meetings,  so  that  the  public  can  be  made  aware  that  those  numbers  were  inaccurate?  I 
think  this  needs  to  be  addressed  in  your  voting.  I  would  hope  you  would  consider  it."  (Eloise  Patton, 
Resident) 

Response  #36 

As  noted  in  Response  to  Comment  #10,  the  proposed  project  would  consist  of  an 
approximately  153,089  sq.-ft.  home  improvement  center,  which  includes  approximately 
96,250  sq.ft.  on  the  main  floor,  38,405  sq.ft.  on  the  second  floor,  and  an  approximately  8,546 
sq.-ft.,  outdoor  garden  center  plus  a  9,888  sq.-ft.,  enclosed  greenhouse.  The  parking  garage 
would  be  approximately  235,597  sq.ft.,  constructed  as  a  separate  structure  that  would  contain 
the  38,405-sq.-ft.  second  floor  sales  area. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.85 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

EMPLOYMENT 


The  DEIR  indicated  on  pages  11  and  103  that  the  proposed  project  would  generate 
approximately  2,500  to  3,000  shoppers  per  day  and  approximately  75  to  100  employees  per 
day.  The  number  of  estimated  employees  has  been  updated  since  the  publication  of  the  Draft 
EIR.  The  project  sponsor  now  estimates  a  daily  employee  population  of  approximately  197 
employees  and  a  total  employee  population  of  approximately  300  employees.  The  number  of 
total  employees  is  higher  than  the  number  of  daily  employees  because  not  every  employee 
works  each  day.  As  noted  in  Comment  #134,  based  on  the  employee  counts  at  other  Home 
Depot  stores,  approximately  180  full-  and  120  part-time  employees  would  work  at  the  store 
each  week,  for  an  average  count  of  128.5  full-time  employees  and  68.5  part-time  employees 
(a  total  of  197  daily  employees).  The  DEIR  has  been  revised  to  reflect  the  new  estimate. 
Changes  were  also  made  to  include  the  employee  estimates  for  the  alternatives  analyzed  in 
the  DEIR.  (See  Section  E  -  Staff-Initiated  Text  Changes  and  Errata,  specifically  pages 
C&R.358,  C&R.359,  and  C&R.363  to  C&R.365,  for  locations  of  text  changes  to  the  DEIR.) 

The  change  to  the  forecasted  number  of  employees  would  not  affect  or  change  the  population 
and  transportation  analysis  in  the  DEIR.  The  number  of  employees  is  presented  in  a  range 
and  the  change  identified  above  would  be  at  a  less-than-significant  level.  The  project  trip 
generation  numbers  calculated  in  the  DEIR  are  based  on  the  square  footage  of  the  store  (as 
determined  from  driveway  counts  conducted  at  other  Home  Depot  stores  in  California;  see 
Responses  to  Comments  #40  and  #41  regarding  the  methodology  for  developing  project  trip 
generation).  These  actual  counts  include  both  employees  and  customers,  and  the  number  of 
employees  estimated  for  the  project  are  within  the  range  of  the  numbers  of  employees  at  the 
surveyed  stores.  Therefore,  the  change  in  the  daily  employee  numbers  would  not  affect  the 
transportation  impacts  in  the  DEIR. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.86 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

URBAN  DESIGN 


URBAN  DESIGN 

Comment  #37 

"I  cannot  understand  why  we  did  not  have  an  analysis  of  design  issues  in  this  EIR.  You  look  at  this, 
and  it  is  787  feet  long.  There  is  not  one  entrance  on  that  front  (indicating).  There  is  nothing  that 
interacts  as  a  pedestrian  entrance."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #37 

As  noted  in  Response  to  Comment  #5,  most  project  customers  would  access  the  proposed 
store  through  the  garage,  primarily  for  convenience  as  well  as  security.  Most  customers 
would  use  their  vehicles  to  transport  their  purchases  and  would  load  from  the  garage.  For 
those  customers  entering  the  store  on  foot  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  or  Loomis  Street,  there 
are  separate  pedestrian  access  points  to  a  walkway  at  the  north  end  of  the  garage  adjacent  to 
the  entrance  of  the  proposed  store  (see  Figure  C&R.6  on  page  C&R.27,  which  replaces 
Figure  2  in  the  DEIR  on  page  28).  Pedestrians  would  access  the  walkway  and  enter  the  store 
through  the  same  entrance  as  all  customers.  Please  see  the  following  response  for  further 
discussion  of  design  issues. 

Comment  #38 

"I  think  the  project  would  have  a  'negative  aesthetic  effect.'  It  will  be  a  much  larger  building  and 
completely  devoid  of  any  character,  unlike  the  smaller  varied  buildings  currently  in  that  block  of 
Bayshore. 

"I  think  the  project  would  'substantially  degrade  or  obstruct  scenic  views.'  I  find  the  views  on  Bernal 
and  Bayview  hills  scenic  as  I  drive  south  on  Bayshore  or  west  on  Oakdale  Avenue.  This  project  will 
obstruct  those  views  and  increase  the  sense  of  being  hemmed  in  by  endless  walls  of  concrete.  This 
project  will  set  a  dangerous  precedent,  and  therefore  make  it  more  likely  that  other  huge  boxlike 
structures  will  follow."  (Nic  Griffin,  Resident) 

Response  #38 

The  DEIR  indicates  (page  A- 12  in  Appendix  A  of  the  DEIR)  that  the  visual  character  of  the 
site  would  change  with  the  construction  of  the  new  buildings.  The  approximately  34-foot- 
high  store  and  38-foot  6-inch  high  parking  garage  would  be  the  largest  in  mass  along 
Bayshore  Boulevard  in  the  surrounding  area.  The  project  area,  however,  has  an  industrial/ 
commercial  setting,  and  the  proposed  project  would  be  similar  in  character  to  other  buildings 
in  the  area.  The  proposed  buildings  would  also  be  similar  in  height  to  most  other  buildings  in 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.87 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

URBAN  DESIGN 

the  immediate  project  area,  but  would  be  larger  in  bulk.  The  Planning  Code  bulk 
requirements  would  not  apply  to  the  project  because  the  store  and  parking  garage  would  be 
less  than  40  feet  in  height.  Due  to  its  urban  commercial  and  light  industrial  setting,  the 
proposed  project  would  not  have  a  substantial,  demonstrable  negative  aesthetic  effect. 

Views  of  Bernal  Heights  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  west  would  be  unobstructed  by  the 
proposed  project  since  it  is  located  on  the  east  side  of  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  views  of 
some  of  the  Bayview  Hills  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  adjacent  to  the  project  may  be  blocked 
by  the  project  buildings.  However,  these  changes  in  views  would  not  be  considered  a 
significant  visual  impact  for  CEQA  purposes,  because  Bayshore  Boulevard  is  not  a  scenic 
corridor  nor  are  there  public  vista  points  nearby  where  views  would  be  affected  by  the 
project. 

The  Initial  Study  also  indicated  on  page  A- 12  in  Appendix  A  of  the  DEIR  that  the  DEIR 
would  address  the  design  of  the  project  in  relation  to  the  proposed  draft  Industrial  Area 
Design  Guidelines  for  the  South  Bayshore  Area  Plan,  however,  as  noted  above,  the  new  draft 
South  Bayshore  Redevelopment  Plan  is  still  in  process.  The  new  Redevelopment  Plan  will 
produce  a  Design  for  Development  document  that  would  establish  new  design  guidelines  for 
the  area.  Until  then,  the  1995  South  Bayshore  Area  Plan  sets  forth  current  goals  for  the 
overall  urban  design  of  the  area  (see  Response  to  Comment  #27).  The  Industrial  Area 
Design  Guidelines14  provide  guidelines  for  industrial  buildings  in  an  industrial  context. 

The  following  subsection  has  been  added  to  the  DEIR  on  page  41,  prior  to  the  Zoning 
section: 

"Industrial  Area  Design  Guidelines 

New  industrial  buildings  must: 

respect  the  prevailing  industrial  scale,  pattern  and  architectural 
character  of  predominantly  industrial  blocks; 

utilize  innovative  materials  and  design  that  enrich  the 
architectural  character  of  predominantly  industrial  areas; 


14  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  Industrial  Area  Design  Guidelines,  August  2001,  page  31. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.88 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

URBAN  DESIGN 

provide  loading  and  parking  facilities  in  the  rear  which  can  be 
accessed  through  an  alley  or  secondary  street; 

•     provide  mid-block  alleys,  courtyards  and  other  design  elements 
that  help  break  down  the  scale  of  large  industrial  blocks;  and 

be  built  to  lot  line  at  the  street  frontage,  unless  a  pattern  of  a 
building  set-back  exists,  in  which  case  the  prevailing  set-back 
pattern  should  be  reflected." 

The  proposed  project  is  generally  consistent  with  the  design  guidelines  for  industrial 
buildings.  Although  the  buildings  would  be  larger  in  massing  than  other  industrial  buildings 
in  the  area,  the  height  and  architectural  character  would  be  similar.  Although  the  buildings 
would  be  built  to  the  lot  lines,  there  would  be  design  elements  along  Bayshore  and  Loomis 
that  would  serve  to  differentiate  the  facade  and  break-up  the  massing.  The  loading  facility 
would  be  accessed  on  Loomis  and  partially  shielded.  All  parking  would  be  in  the  garage. 
There  would  be  street  trees  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Loomis  Street.  The  third  floor  or 
roof  of  the  garage  would  have  trellises  and  landscaping  shielding  the  parked  cars  when 
viewed  from  locations  along  Bayshore  Boulevard,  Loomis  Street,  and  from  some  places  on 
the  east  slope  of  Bernal  Hill. 

Comment  #39 

"Residents  of  areas  near  the  project  site  have  raised  concerns  regarding  the  amount  of  light  and  glare 
from  the  rooftop  of  the  store  and  the  adjacent  garage.  In  fact,  there  is  already  a  considerable  amount 
of  light  generated  during  the  nighttime  hours  from  the  existing  uses  along  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and 
Home  Depot  will  not  add  any  light  source  that  will  stand  out  against  these  other  lights.  Nevertheless, 
our  architects  have  carefully  designed  the  structures  in  order  to  further  reduce  the  nighttime  effects  of 
the  store. 

"There  will  be  no  lights  on  the  top  of  the  store  itself.  Screening  on  the  second  and  third  levels  of  the 
garage  adjacent  to  the  store  will  prevent  car  lights  from  within  the  lower  levels  of  the  garage  from 
being  seen  by  residents  living  on  nearby  hills.  The  lights  on  the  topmost  parking  level  will  face 
downward  with  cut  off  shields  to  direct  light  down  and  prevent  light  from  spilling  over  the  rooftop 
parking  area.  No  vehicle  headlights  will  be  visible  from  the  top  parking  level,  because  the  entire 
level  will  be  surrounded  by  a  31^-foot  wall.  Above  the  3!/2-foot  wall,  half  of  the  topmost  parking 
level  will  be  shielded  by  continuing  the  solid  wall,  and  the  other  half  will  be  concealed  by  a  trellis 
created  with  vines  strung  among  horizontal  cables.  The  cables  will  form  a  vertical  wall  reaching  to 
approximately  10  feet  above  the  floor  of  the  topmost  level,  and  then  slope  inward  on  an  angle  toward 
the  parking  area  to  a  height  of  approximately  15  feet.  In  addition  to  these  concealment  measures, 
there  will  be  trees  in  planters  on  the  rooftop  parking  level,  which  will  also  function  to  block  light 
from  the  garage.  Together,  the  trellis  system  and  plantings  should  prevent  both  glare  and  direct  light 
effects  from  the  garage  from  being  visible  from  homes  in  Bernal  Heights."  (Anna  C.  Shimko, 
Attorney  at  Law  for  Home  Depot) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.89 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

URBAN  DESIGN 

Response  #39 

On  page  A- 12  in  Appendix  A  of  the  DEIR,  it  notes  that  the  proposed  project  would  comply 
with  Planning  Commission  Resolution  9212,  which  prohibits  the  use  of  mirrored  or  reflective 
glass.  Thus,  the  project  would  not  result  in  the  production  of  additional  obtrusive  glare 
affecting  other  properties.  The  project  would  continue  to  emit  relatively  low  levels  of  light, 
similar  to  those  generated  in  the  past  by  the  existing  structures,  and  would  not  substantially 
increase  ambient  light  levels  in  the  project  area.  An  approximately  4'/2-foot-tall  wall  with  a 
6-foot  trellis  containing  screening  plants  would  be  constructed  along  the  periphery  of  the  roof 
to  shield  the  glare  of  parked  cars  and  headlights  from  the  surrounding  neighborhood.  The 
lighting  for  the  rooftop  parking  would  be  directed  downward  away  from  the  residences  on 
Bernal  Heights.  The  DEIR  concluded  that  the  project  light  and  glare  would  not  result  in 
adverse  effects  on  nearby  residents  or  businesses. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.90 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


TRANSPORTATION 

Data  Sources  and  Methodology 

Comment  #40 

"Most  of  the  data  used  in  the  DEIR's  analysis  of  traffic  impacts  were  provided  by  Home  Depot.  The 
Planning  Department  rejected  our  request  for  an  opportunity  to  review  these  data  (see  attachment  l)1 
during  the  DEIR  review  period,  making  it  impossible  for  us  to  prepare  fully  informed  comments  on 
the  traffic  analysis.  We  must  repeat  our  request  that  the  City  must  make  the  data  available,  and 
further  that  they  extend  the  review  period  to  enable  the  officials  and  the  public  to  review  and 
comment  on  the  data.  At  the  July  10  public  hearing,  Commissioner  Lisa  Felstein  asked  about  Eve 
Bach's  oral  comments  on  this  problem.  Tammy  Chan  of  the  Planning  Department  replied  that  all 
data  are  in  the  project  file  and  are  available  for  inspection  by  appointment.  This  response  was 
incorrect.  Ron  Morgan  of  the  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  inspected  the  file  three  times 
since  publication  of  the  DEIR  (and  twice  before  that).  Because  the  data  underlying  the  traffic 
analysis  were  not  in  the  file,  he  corresponded  with  Ms.  Chan  by  email  asking  what  he  needed  to  do  to 
be  able  to  examine  the  data.  Her  response  was  that  his  request  was  a  comment  on  the  accuracy  of  the 
data  and  it  would  be  included  among  comments  on  the  DEIR.  A  copy  of  the  email  is  attached. 
[Refer  to  Appendix  E  of  this  document,  Eve  Bach,  Barbara  Kyle,  and  Ron  Morgan  Letter  dated  July 
24,  2003.] 

"We  also  object  to  reliance  by  the  Transportation  Study  on  data  selectively  provided  by  the  sponsor. 
This  practice  breaches  the  firewall  between  traffic  consultant  and  project  sponsor  mandated  by  the 
City,  and  severely  compromises  the  integrity  of  the  environmental  review  process. 

"The  role  of  the  project  sponsor  and  its  representatives  during  the  preparation  of  the  transportation 
report  should  be  limited  to  provision  of  details  concerning  the  project,  response  to  recommended 
changes  affecting  project  circulation,  and  indication  of  support  or  lack  of  support  for  recommended 
mitigation  measures  and  other  transportation  improvements  identified  in  the  impact  report.2 

"A  traffic  analysis  based  on  data  selected  by  the  project  sponsor3  -  especially  data  that  cannot  be 
scrutinized  or  verified  by  the  public  -  is  not  entitled  to  the  deference  ordinarily  given  to  the  City's 
discretion.  Although  it  is  theoretically  possible  that  the  sponsor  selected  data  that  accurately 
represents  project  conditions,  it  is  equally  possible  that  data  were  chosen  that  understate  impacts  or 
otherwise  predetermine  conclusions.  The  EIR  therefore  must  either  provide  independent  verification 
that  the  selected  data  are  accurate,  objective,  and  appropriate,  or  rewrite  the  EIR  with  data  that  satisfy 
those  standards.  In  either  case,  the  DEIR  needs  to  be  revised  and  recirculated. 

"Much  of  the  data  were  supplied  by  Home  Depot.  The  transportation  study  is  supposed  to  be  an 
independent  study  on  the  traffic  impacts.  Yet,  in  evaluating  current  and  future  conditions,  the 
transportation  study  relies  heavily  on  data  provided  by  Home  Depot  itself.  We  request  to  see  the  raw 
data  supplied  by  Home  Depot  and  the  evaluation  the  City  performed  of  these  data.  These  data 
include: 

"a.       Parking  lot  counts  used  to  calculate  trip  generation  rates,  including  in-out  split  for  parking  lot 
queuing  analysis  (Transportation  Study,  [DEIR]  Appendix  C). 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.91 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

"b.  Market  share  data  used  to  generate  trip  distribution  estimates  (Transportation  Study,  [DEIR] 
Appendix  C). 

"c.       Home  Depot  Parking  Study  (References  in  DEIR,  page  60). 

"d.       Monthly  variation  in  sales  (Transportation  Study,  [DEIR]  Appendix  C). 

"e.       Number  and  distribution  of  daily  truck  trips  per  day  ('Based  on  information  from  a  similar 

[unspecified]  Home  Depot  store...'  (DEIR,  page  72;  Transportation  Study,  9/02,  [DEIR] 

Appendix  [C]). 

"f.  Construction  workers  at  peak:  30-40  per  day  (DEIR,  page  7;  Transportation  Study,  9/02, 
pages  4-19)."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot 
Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community 
Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  Email  from  Tammy  Chan  to  Ron  Morgan,  June  27,  2003. 

2  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Planning  Department,  Transportation  Impact  Analysis  Guidelines  for 
Environmental  Review,  October  2002,  page  4. 

3  There  is  no  record  in  the  file  of  any  communication  with  the  consultant  asking  for  data  on  the  specific 
Home  Depot  stores  that  were  used  as  the  bases  for  the  traffic  analysis. 

"The  City  contracted  for  a  transportation  study  to  be  conducted  by  Wilbur  Smith  Associates, 
published  in  September  2002.  This  transportation  study  is  inadequate  in  many  areas,  and  needs  to  be 
redone."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair; 
and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

"As  we  get  deeper  into  the  Home  Depot  Draft  EIR,  a  number  of  questions  have  arisen  that  require 
further  documentation  so  we  may  better  understand  its  findings.  For  now,  I'll  just  list  the  materials, 
so  let  me  know  their  availability: 

"  1 .  Parking  lot  counts  used  to  calculate  trip  generation  rates,  including  in-out  split  for  parking  lot 
queuing  analysis  ([DEIR]  Appendix  C,  9/02  Transportation  Study). 

"2.  Market  share  data  used  to  generate  trip  distribution  estimates  ([DEIR]  Appendix  C,  9/02 
Transportation  Study). 

"3.  Home  Depot  Parking  Study  (Barton- Aschman  Associates,  Parking  Demand  Study,  1/92 
[referenced  in  DEIR,  p.  60]). 

"4.       Monthly  variation  in  sales  ([DEIR]  Appendix  C,  9/02  Transportation  Study). 

"5.  Number  and  distribution  of  daily  truck  trips  per  day  ('based  on  information  from  a  similar 
[unspecified]  Home  Depot  store.') 

"6.       Number  of  construction  workers  at  peak:  30-40  per  day. 

"7.  The  increase  in  daily  population  on-site  by  2,500-3,300  people  (75-100  employees,  2,500- 
3,000  shoppers)."  (Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing 
Coordinator) 

"There  seems  to  be  a  lot  of  questioning  about  what  the  metrics  are,  and  how  the  measurements  were 
made.  I  work  across  the  street  at  California  Public  Utilities  Commission,  and  we  require  applicants 
there  on  issues  like  this  to  provide  the  underlying  data  in  electronic  format  that  could  be  searchable. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.92 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

The  question  is,  'What  is  the  underlying  data  here  from  which  these  conclusions  here  are  drawn?1" 
(Chris  Witteman,  Resident) 

Response  #40 

The  Home  Depot  final  Transportation  Study'3  was  prepared  following  the  Interim 
Transportation  Impact  Analysis  Guidelines  for  Environmental  Review,  January  2000, 
prepared  by  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  Planning  Department.1  As  discussed  in 
the  San  Francisco  Transportation  Guidelines,  transportation  reports  may  be  prepared  by 
qualified  consultants.  The  selected  consultant  (for  this  project,  Wilbur  Smith  Associates)  met 
with  Planning  Department  staffs  to  develop  a  scope  of  work  for  the  transportation  study.  The 
scope  of  work  included  the  specific  issues  to  be  examined  and  general  assumptions  and 
approach,  including  the  location  of  analysis  intersections  and  the  parking  study  area 
boundary.  The  transportation  consultant  conducted  the  required  analysis  independent  of  the 
project  sponsor  and  submitted  a  draft  report  for  review  to  the  Planning  Department,  Muni, 
and  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  staff  The  City  staffs  determined  whether  further 
refinements  were  necessary  to  reflect  conditions  of  the  proposed  project,  and  the  comments 
were  then  incorporated  into  a  revised  final  report.  The  transportation  consultant's  work  effort 
was  entirely  under  the  direction  of  the  Planning  Department  and  all  submittals  were  made 
directly  to  the  City. 

Due  to  the  specialized  retail  use  of  the  proposed  project  and  to  most  accurately  reflect  future 
conditions  with  the  project,  information  regarding  store  operations,  anticipated  market  share, 
and  loading  demand  was  obtained  directly  from  Home  Depot,  instead  of  standard  Planning 
Department  sources  and  industry  standard  rates.  It  should  be  noted,  however,  that  the  traffic 
counts,  parking  counts  and  driveway  counts  (at  other  California  Home  Depot  stores,  used  to 
estimate  trip  generation)  were  conducted  by  Wilbur  Smith  Associates  (see  Response  to 
Comment  #41),  and  the  parking  demand  study  and  market  share  analysis  were  conducted  by 
independent  consulting  firms,  not  by  Home  Depot.  All  data  that  was  used  for  the  analysis  of 
the  project  was  reviewed  and  approved  by  Planning  Department  staff. 

15  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  491  Bayshore  Boulevard  Home  Depot  Transportation  Study,  September  17,  2002.  This 
report  is  on  file  and  available  by  appointment  for  public  review  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  1660 
Mission  Street,  Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco,  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E!. 

16  The  Transportation  Study  was  prepared  prior  to  the  availability  of  the  current  Transportation  Guidelines,  which 
were  published  in  October  2002.  However,  the  current  Transportation  Guidelines  did  not  contain  any  changes  that 
would  affect  the  analysis  of  the  project,  and  therefore  does  not  change  the  analysis  contained  in  the  Home  Depot 
Transportation  Report. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.93 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Information  regarding  the  monthly  variation  of  sales  was  provided  by  Home  Depot,  and  was 
obtained  from  daily  sales  transaction  data  for  multiple  stores  in  California. 

Information  regarding  the  number  of  delivery  trucks  per  day  was  obtained  from  Home  Depot, 
who  based  the  data  on  truck  logs  from  the  Colma  Home  Depot  store. 

Information  regarding  construction,  including  number  of  construction  workers,  is  typically 
obtained  from  the  project  sponsor,  who  received  estimates  from  potential  construction 
contractors. 


Information  regarding  daily  population  was  not  part  of  the  transportation  assessment.  Travel 
demand  associated  with  the  proposed  project  was  based  on  vehicle  trip  generation  rates  for 
the  peak  hours  of  analysis. 

The  above  information  has  been  provided  to  the  Planning  Department  and  is  available  for 
review  by  appointment  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  at  1660  Mission  Street, 
Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco,  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E!. 

Comment  #41 

"Page  57  [of  the  DEIR]:  Data  from  the  'four  similar  Home  Depot  stores  in  California'  have  not  been 
available  for  review.  Members  of  the  public  have  not  been  able  to  review  the  driveway  count  data  or 
methodology  underlying  calculation  of  the  project's  trip  generation  rate.  There  is  no  indication  how 
the  four  samples  sites  were  selected,  except  that  they  are  either  free-standing  or  with  separate 
entrances/exits  for  parking,  and  are  located  in  urbanized  areas.  Among  1,500  Home  Depot  stores, 
163  of  which  are  in  California,1  there  must  be  many  (as  well  as  other  large  retail  outlets)  fitting  those 
criteria.  It  is  very  possible  that  selecting  a  different  set  of  four  stores,  also  meeting  the  criteria,  would 
produce  a  different  result.  No  explanation  has  been  provided  why  the  sample  was  limited  to  four 
stores.  Limiting  the  sample  to  four  stores  when  there  is  a  32  percent  variation  from  the  lowest  to  the 
highest  trip  generation  rates  (from  5.19  to  6.842)  has  produced  an  average  rate  that  is  statistically 
meaningless. 

"In  any  event,  the  City  has  an  obligation  to  conduct  independent  field  counts,  if  only  to  verify  Home 
Depot  data. 

"For  similar  reasons,  the  adjustment  factor  used  to  calculate  peak  weekend  midday  trips  (a  50  percent 
increase  over  the  weekday  peak  hour)  should  be  based  on  a  larger  sample  and  verified  rather  than 
derived  from  an  8-year-old  unverified  count  conducted  at  a  single  store  (Colma)."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.94 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal 
Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  San  Mateo  County  Times,  5/17/03  (on-line  version). 

2  DEIR,  page  B-5. 

Response  #41 

The  trip  generation  rates  were  based  on  a  sample  of  similar  Home  Depot  stores  in  California. 
The  four  stores  were  selected  since  they  shared  common  attributes  with  the  project,  including 
access  (free-standing  or  with  separate  entrances/exits  for  their  parking  facilities)  and  location 
(within  urbanized  areas).  The  stores  are  located  in  Campbell,  Hollywood,  San  Jose,  and 
Colma.  The  stores  were  selected  by  the  transportation  consultant  and  the  Planning 
Department,  the  driveway  counts  were  conducted  by  the  transportation  consultant,  and  all 
findings  were  reviewed  by  the  Planning  Department.  These  counts  were  conducted  by 
Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  independent  from  the  project  sponsor.  It  should  be  noted  that  the 
goal  of  this  data  collection  effort  was  not  to  develop  a  statistically  significant  trip  generation 
rate  for  all  Home  Depot  stores,  but  to  augment  the  information  available  from  national 
sources  such  as  the  Institute  of  Transportation  Engineers  (ITE)  Trip  Generation  manual.17  It 
should  also  be  noted  that  for  a  similar  land  use,  "Home  Improvement  Superstore"  land  use 
(#862),  ITE's  trip  generation  rates  were  developed  using  counts  of  between  one  and  seven 
locations.  As  such,  establishing  trip  generation  rates  for  the  project  based  on  four  locations 
would  be  consistent  with  the  industry  standards. 

For  each  of  the  four  locations  counted,  the  number  of  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trips  was 
divided  by  the  size  of  the  store  (in  terms  of  1,000  square  feet)  to  develop  trip  generation 
rates.  These  rates  were  averaged  among  the  four  locations  to  develop  an  average  trip 
generation  rate  (which  was  used  for  the  analysis  of  the  proposed  project). 

As  indicated  on  DEIR  page  57,  the  trip  generation  rates  developed  for  the  project,  which 
were  based  on  an  average  of  the  four  stores  counted,  were  5.54  vehicle-trips  per  1,000  square 
feet  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  6.93  vehicle-trips  per  1,000  square  feet  during  the 
weekday  peak  hour  of  activity,  and  8.28  vehicle-trips  per  1,000  square  feet  during  the 
Saturday  midday  peak  hour.    These  rates  are  substantially  higher  than  the  standard  trip 

17  Institute  of  Transportation  Engineers,  Trip  Generation,  6th  Edition,  1997 '. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.95 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

generation  rates  from  the  ITE  Trip  Generation  manual.  For  a  "Home  Improvement 
Superstore"  land  use  (#862),  the  following  trip  generation  rates  were  estimated  from  the  ITE 
information:  2.87  vehicle-trips  per  1,000  square  feet  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  3.62 
vehicle-trips  per  1,000  square  feet  during  the  weekday  peak  hour  of  activity,  and  5.40 
vehicle-trips  per  1,000  square  feet  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  As  such,  the 
higher  trip  generation  rates  used  in  the  traffic  analysis  better  reflect  the  specialized  retail 
characteristics  of  a  Home  Depot  store  than  the  standard  ITE  rates. 

Comment  #42 

"Trip  Generation  Rates  are  Inconsistent.  The  transportation  study  is  supposed  to  look  at  the  travel 
demand  expressed  in  a  trip  generation  rate,  or  person-trips  per  square  feet  of  gross  space.  The  study 
uses  two  different  methodologies  for  calculating  this  information  -  one  for  weekday  PM  peak  hours, 
and  another  for  weekend  peak  hours.  All  rates  are  expressed  in  vehicle  trips,  not  the  requested 
person-trips.  Why  did  it  use  different  methodologies  for  these  two  calculations? 

"For  the  weekday  PM  peak  hours,  the  study  averages  driveway  counts  performed  for  Home  Depots 
in  California  four  years  ago.  The  undemanding  criteria  for  the  selection  of  these  four  stores  ('either 
free-standing  or  with  separate  entrances/exits  for  their  parking  facilities')  and  location  ('within 
urbanized  areas')  suggests  that  a  much  larger  database  could  have  been  used.  Given  the  wide  range 
of  trip  rates  among  Home  Depot  stores  and  the  widespread  interest  in  traffic  issues  by  communities 
throughout  the  country,  it  would  seem  that  consistent,  statistically  valid  national  and  California 
numbers  must  be  available.  Why  select  just  these  four  (Home  Depot  has  163  stores  in  California 
alone)?  Did  the  City  have  access  to  this  information?  Are  the  four  really  the  most  representative  of 
this  situation? 

"For  the  weekend  peak  hours,  the  transportation  study  used  counts  conducted  at  the  Colma  store  in 
the  winter  of  1995-1996.  These  data  appear  to  be  older,  and  show  lower  counts  than  the  data 
collected  in  1999.  Why  was  this  different  methodology  used?  Why  older  data,  and  why  just  from 
one  store?  No  explanation  is  given."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle, 
Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 
Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #42 

In  general,  the  standard  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  methodology  for  developing  the 
travel  demand  for  a  project  includes  the  use  of  person-trip  generation  rates.  These  person- 
trips  are  then  assigned  to  the  various  travel  modes  (including  auto,  transit,  walk  and  other 
modes),  and  the  number  of  vehicle-trips  is  determined.  However,  due  to  the  auto-oriented 
nature  of  the  goods  provided  and  the  typical  location  of  Home  Depot  stores,  very  few 
customers  and  employees  take  transit,  walk  or  bicycle  to  and  from  the  store.  As  a  result,  it 
was  assumed  that  all  customer  and  employee  trips  generated  by  the  project  would  be  via 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.96 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

private  vehicle,  and  all  trips  would  be  vehicle  trips,  which  would  result  in  a  conservative 
estimate  of  the  traffic  impacts  associated  with  the  project. 

Since  driveway  counts  (i.e.,  the  number  of  vehicles  entering  and  exiting  the  parking  facility) 
were  conducted  to  develop  trip  generation  rates,  and  it  was  assumed  that  all  customers  and 
employees  would  drive  to  and  from  the  project,  vehicle  trip  generation  rates  rather  than 
person-trip  generation  rates  were  used  to  determine  travel  demand  for  the  proposed  project. 

See  Response  to  Comment  #40  regarding  the  availability  of  information  used  to  develop  trip 
generation  rates  for  the  proposed  project. 

The  trip  generation  rates  for  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  and 
weekday  peak  hour  of  generation  were  developed  at  different  times,  but  essentially  used  the 
same  methodology  for  calculating  each  rate.  The  driveway  counts  used  to  develop  the 
weekday  PM  peak  hour  rates  were  conducted  in  July  1999,  and  the  counts  used  to  develop 
the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  rates  were  conducted  in  the  winter  of  1995/1996.  Both  sets 
of  counts  were  originally  conducted  for  the  analysis  of  previously  proposed  Home  Depot 
projects  within  San  Francisco.  For  this  project,  however,  the  analysis  of  Saturday  conditions 
was  added  to  the  study  scope  after  the  July  1999  counts  were  conducted.  As  a  result, 
comparable  data  were  not  available.  The  1995/1996  counts  were  used  to  establish  the 
relationship  between  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  trip  generation.  This 
ratio  was  applied  to  the  calculated  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trip  generation  from  the  July  1999 
data  to  estimate  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  trip  generation.  The  use  of  ratios  between 
different  data  sources  is  a  common  approach  to  developing  trip  generation  rates  when  actual 
data  is  not  available.  Since  July  has  the  highest  monthly  sales,  the  trip  generation  rates  used 
in  the  analysis  represent  the  peak  month  of  activity. 

See  Response  to  Comment  #41  regarding  the  selection  of  the  sites  used  for  the  driveway 
counts.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  goal  of  this  data  collection  effort  was  not  to  develop  a 
statistically  significant  trip  generation  rate  for  all  Home  Depot  stores,  but  to  augment  the 
information  available  from  national  sources,  such  as  the  ITE  Trip  Generation  manual.  The 
resulting  trip  generation  rates  used  for  the  transportation  study  adequately  represent  the 
anticipated  travel  demand  and  assessment  of  impacts  associated  with  the  project. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.97 


My  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Comment  #43 

"I  think  that  there  were  good  points  made  on  all  sides.  Regarding  the  usage  -  I  live  in  western  San 
Francisco;  I  probably  still  will  go,  if  I  use  the  Home  Depot  -  which  I  try  to  avoid  whenever  possible, 
but  just  because  it  takes  a  lot  longer,  and  unless  you  are  shopping  for  a  lot  of  items,  it  is  easier  to  go 
to  the  neighborhood  hardware  store.  But  I  think  a  lot  of  people  from  my  side  of  the  city  will  continue 
to  go  to  Colma.  Probably  what  will  happen  is  their  business  will  diminish  some,  and  you  will  end  up 
with  about  half  the  amount  of  business  in  the  store,  and  the  other  half  still  in  the  western  store, 
because  I  think  that  what  is  happening  is  everybody  is  going  to  Colma  now.  Those  are  the  biggest 
things  I  find  out  of  here."  (Michael  Antonini,  Planning  Commissioner) 

"Trip  Assignment  Data  Miss  Randall  Cut-over  from  San  Jose  Avenue.  In  performing  the  trip 
assignment  analysis,  the  traffic  study  anticipates  driving  routes  from  different  neighborhoods.  These 
data  are  used  in  assessing  traffic  impacts.  (Transportation  Study,  [DEIR]  Appendix  C.)  None  of 
these  analyses  consider  a  common  traffic  pattern  from  Glen  Park,  Diamond  Heights,  Balboa,  or  outer 
Noe  Valley,  where  cars  use  Randall  Street  to  cut  across  San  Jose  Avenue,  left  onto  Mission,  and  then 
turn  right  onto  Cortland.  It  is  important  because  it  puts  more  pressure  on  the  intersection  of  Mission 
and  Cortland,  one  of  the  intersections  that  is  projected  to  degrade  to  Level  of  Service  (LOS)  F."  (Eve 
Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron 
Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #43 

The  assignment  of  visitor  trips  to  and  from  the  project  was  based  on  demographic  forecasts 
of  potential  customers  (see  also  Response  to  Comment  #44).  In  general,  for  each  zip  code, 
potential  vehicular  routes  to  and  from  the  project  were  identified,  and  vehicles  were  assigned 
based  on  the  most  convenient  and  direct  routes.  Using  this  approach,  it  was  estimated  that 
about  20  percent  of  the  customers  would  come  from  the  neighborhoods  noted  by  the 
commenters,  including  Glen  Park,  Diamond  Heights,  Balboa  Park  and  outer  Noe  Valley 
neighborhoods.  It  was  assumed  that  about  30  percent  of  the  trips  from  these  neighborhoods 
would  use  Cortland  Avenue  to  access  the  project  site.  The  routes  that  were  assigned  to  the 
street  network  included  the  use  of  Randall  Street,  San  Jose  Avenue  and  Mission  Street  to 
Cortland  Avenue.  As  such,  the  results  of  the  traffic  analysis  incorporated  these  trips  traveling 
through  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  intersection  of 
Mission/Cortland  would  not  operate  at  unacceptable  conditions  under  the  Existing  plus 
Project  scenario,  but  under  the  2015  Cumulative  conditions.  Mitigation  measures  have  been 
proposed  to  improve  intersection  operations  to  acceptable  conditions  in  the  future.  It  should 
be  noted  that  a  new  Home  Depot  store  is  currently  under  construction  in  Daly  City 
(anticipated  to  be  completed  in  January  2006),  and  that  it  could  be  more  attractive  for  some 
potential  customers  from  these  neighborhoods  to  travel  to  Daly  City  rather  than  to  the 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.98 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

proposed  Bayshore  Boulevard  location.  However,  the  traffic  analysis  did  not  consider  the 
new  Daly  City  store,  and  possibly  over-estimates  the  trips  from  the  neighborhoods  that  would 
use  Cortland  Avenue. 

Comment  #44 

"The  DEIR  bases  its  trip  distribution/traffic  assignment  on  a  study  that  is  not  available  to  the  public. 
The  DEIR  estimates  that  24%  of  the  project's  customers  will  come  from  San  Mateo  County  based  on 
a  study  commissioned  by  Home  Depot.  We  have  been  denied  the  opportunity  to  review  the  data. 
There  is  no  indication  in  the  DEIR  that  the  City  verified  the  reported  conclusion  of  the  study. 

"The  assignment  of  routes  appears  to  be  based  on  speculation:  '...traffic  was  assigned  based  on  the 
most  convenient  routes.'  What  is  the  basis  for  the  determination  that  13  percent  of  vehicles  would 
choose  to  approach  the  project  via  Cortland  Avenue  as  opposed  to  12  percent?  Or  20  percent? 

"Faulty  assumptions  for  distribution  of  visitor  trips  skews  data  on  traffic.  The  transportation  study 
makes  assumptions  about  where  (geographically)  the  traffic  will  come  from  and,  therefore,  whether  it 
will  use  freeways  or  surface  streets.  The  study  claims  that  Home  Depot's  market  research  shows  that 
a  full  24  percent  of  the  vehicles  would  come  from  the  South  Bay  or  Peninsula  (Transportation  Study 
page  3-4). 

"This  number  is  slightly  overestimated.  While  the  actual  market  research  data  are  not  provided,  it  is 
hard  to  imagine  that  many  people  on  the  Peninsula  would  drive  past  the  two  Home  Depots  in  Colma 
or  the  Lowe's  in  San  Bruno  to  fight  the  traffic  to  drive  all  the  way  up  to  San  Francisco  to  shop  at 
Home  Depot  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  We  would  like  to  see  this  market  research  data.  Yet,  but  using 
these  assumptions,  the  traffic  estimates  are  skewed  towards  freeway  approaches,  not  surface 
approaches  to  the  project.  This  would  lead  to  understating  the  traffic  impacts  on  surface  routes,  a 
primary  concern  of  neighbors  in  Bemal  Heights.  Indeed,  the  conclusion  that  only  13  percent  of  the 
vehicles  would  approach  from  Cortland  Avenue  is  low.  And  that  15  percent  would  come  from 
Loomis  Street  is  very  high.  These  assertions  should  be  further  studied."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology 
Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights 
Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

"I'm  also  concerned  that  the  draft  EIR  doesn't  adequately  address  or  fully  evaluate  the  kind  of  -  the 
traffic  that  comes  off  of  O'Shaughnessy,  and  then  travel  -  people  from  the  west  of  Twin  Peaks  use 
O'Shaughnessy;  travel  to  Mission;  come  across  Cortland  onto  Bayshore.  People  come  down 
Guerrero,  then  on  to  Mission,  and  across  Cortland,  onto  the  Bayshore.  I  don't  think  people  will 
necessarily  circumvent  the  city  in  order  to  get  to  this  proposed  store."  (Amy  Beinart,  Resident) 

"I  restored  an  1890  house,  and  I  spend  a  lot  of  money  at  Home  Depot,  so  I  am  not  ideologically 
opposed,  and  I  resent  the  fact  that  anybody  who  would  be  opposed  would  be  so.  I  have  talked  to  a  lot 
of  my  neighbors  about  this.  And  I  talked  to  one  neighbor  who  is  a  contractor,  and  he  says  that  it  is  a 
zoo  down  there,  and  he  can't  imagine  it  being  like  this  up  here.  I  talked  to  a  lot  of  supporters,  and  it 
is  as  if  they  haven't  picked  up  the  EIR.  Clearly  the  traffic  impacts  and  the  pollution  impacts  [are] 
significant.  This  notion  that  they  will  only  do  it  once:  You  know  better  than  I  how  many 
automobiles  are  registered  in  San  Francisco.  What  is  it;  200,000;  300,000;  400,000?  That's  a  lot  of 
people  only  doing  it  once,  to  start  with.  If  you  read  The  Tipping  Point,  you  know  if  you  have  a  little 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.99 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

street  like  this,  just  a  small  change  can  have  a  very  big  impact.  And  I  think  you  are  seeing  some  of 
the  emotional  responses  to  this  today.  This  whole  notion  that  people  will  use  the  freeway:  If  I'm 
going  through  town  I'll  use  the  freeway;  if  I'm  coming  east-west,  I'm  not  on  280  or  101."  (Mark 
Lynch,  Resident) 

"I'm  a  resident  of  Bernal  Heights,  308  Andover  Street.  I'm  not  associated  with  any  of  the 
neighborhood  groups,  nor  with  Home  Depot.  I'm  speaking  with  you  today  to  discuss  the  DEIR,  and  I 
find  a  series  of  flaws  with  that,  specifically  relating  to  the  air  pollution  issues  and  traffic.  Not  only 
will  we  have  significant  increase  of  traffic.  The  quoted  language  of  13  percent  increase,  in  my 
estimation,  is  very,  very  low.  Having  shopped  at  the  Home  Depot  in  Colma,  I  have  seen  many  times 
when  it  is  backed  up;  the  service  street  is  backed  up  down  Junipero  Serra,  and  all  the  way  back  up 
onto  the  freeway  where  it  is  backed  up.  And  these  are  not  just  cars  idling.  These  are  commercial 
vehicles;  diesel  tracks;  loud  ladders;  rattly  trucks  going  through  the  residential  neighborhoods  early 
in  the  morning,  further  compounding  the  traffic  problem.  I  don't  feel  that  this  has  been  fully 
addressed."  (Robert  Mokry,  Resident) 

"So  13  percent  of  Home  Depot  visits  will  come  via  Cortland?  Where  did  you  get  that  figure,  out  of  a 
hat?  It's  not  just  the  shakiness  of  your  figures  that  angers  me,  but  the  lack  of  distinction  between 
types  of  vehicle.  An  increase  in  passenger  vehicles  might  be  tolerable,  but  Home  Depot  and  only 
Home  Depot  will  generate  a  flood  of  contractor's  trucks  early  in  the  morning  -  the  worst  time  for 
Bernal  Hill  traffic  already.  Even  a  big  movieplex  would  be  better.  At  least  the  traffic  would  be 
passenger  cars,  and  most  of  it  would  be  evening  traffic,  not  early  morning."  (Chris  Pagels, 
Resident) 

Response  #44 

Home  Depot  hired  an  independent  market  research  firm  to  estimate  the  geographic  location 
of  potential  customers  of  the  project.  The  firm  that  conducted  this  analysis  is  composed  of 
professional  demographers,  providing  Home  Depot  with  demographic  information  on 
existing  and  proposed  stores.  They  combine  standard  demographic  industry  standards  with 
actual  data  collected  from  other  existing  Home  Depot  stores  to  perform  the  market  analysis. 
The  market  research  data  used  in  the  analysis  is  available  for  review  by  appointment  at  the 
Planning  Department,  at  1660  Mission  Street,  Fifth  floor,  San  Francisco  as  part  of  Case  File 
2001.0062E!.  For  a  specialized  land  use,  such  as  a  Home  Depot  store,  the  use  of  market  , 
research  data  allows  for  a  more  accurate  determination  of  travel  characteristics  than  the 
standard  trip  distribution  rates  established  in  the  San  Francisco  Transportation  Guidelines. 
Comparison  of  the  trip  distribution  from  the  market  research  analysis  versus  distributions 
from  the  San  Francisco  Transportation  Guidelines  is  as  follows: 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.100 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Table  C&R.2 
Trip  Distribution  Comparisons  by  Superdistrict 

Origin/Destination 

San  Francisco 
Transportation  Guidelines 

Market  Research  Analysis 
Data 

Superdistrict  1 

4% 

6% 

Superdistrict  2 

o  /o 

QO/ 

y  /o 

Superdistrict  3 

59% 

61% 

Superdistrict  4 

5% 

5% 

Outside  of  San 
Francisco 

24% 

19% 

Total 

100% 

100% 

In  general,  the  trip  distribution  rates  developed  from  the  market  research  analysis  are  similar 
to  those  established  in  the  San  Francisco  Transportation  Guidelines  for  retail  uses  in  this 
quadrant  of  the  city,  except  that  the  market  research  analysis  does  not  assume  any  customers 
from  the  North  Bay  or  East  Bay  due  to  the  location  of  other  Home  Depot  stores.  Therefore, 
the  analysis  contained  in  the  DEIR  would  be  consistent  with  the  San  Francisco 
Transportation  Guidelines. 

As  described  in  the  DEIR  on  page  59,  the  geographic  location  of  potential  customers  was 
determined  at  a  zip  code  level.  The  analysis  accounted  for  the  characteristics  of  the  proposed 
store  and  the  surrounding  population.  The  characteristics  of  the  proposed  store  included  the 
location  of  other  Home  Depot  stores  (such  as  the  stores  in  Colma  and  San  Mateo)  and  the 
location  of  nearby  competitors.  The  characteristics  of  the  surrounding  population  (at  the  zip 
code  level)  included  the  average  distance  to  the  store,  number  of  dwelling  units,  percentage 
of  units  that  are  owner  occupied,  and  median  income. 

Overall,  it  was  estimated  that  about  76  percent  of  the  customers  would  be  from  San  Francisco 
and  24  percent  from  the  Peninsula  (primarily  within  Brisbane,  Daly  City,  and  South  San 
Francisco).  Although  it  was  estimated  that  there  would  be  a  portion  of  residents  in  northern 
San  Mateo  County  who  would  continue  to  use  the  existing  Colma  Home  Depot  store,  the 
market  research  information  estimated  that  the  proposed  project  on  Bayshore  Boulevard 
would  be  more  convenient  for  residents  located  along  U.S.  101  and  near  the  San  Francisco 
and  San  Mateo  county  line. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R101 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Based  on  this  geographic  distribution  of  customers,  the  project-generated  trips  were  assigned 
to  the  local  and  regional  roadway  network.  In  consultation  with  Planning  Department  staff, 
the  transportation  consultant  identified  potential  vehicular  routes  to  and  from  the  project  for 
each  zip  code,  and  vehicles  were  assigned  based  on  the  most  convenient  and  direct  routes.  In 
many  cases,  multiple  routes  were  selected  between  each  zip  code  and  the  project  site. 

It  was  estimated  that  a  portion  of  the  residents  within  the  following  zip  codes  would  use 
Cortland  Avenue  to  travel  to  and  from  the  project  site:  941 10  (Mission  and  Bernal  Heights), 
94112  (Balboa  Park,  Ingleside,  and  Excelsior),  94132  (Lake  Merced  and  Lakeshore),  94131 
(Twin  Peaks,  Diamond  Heights,  and  Glen  Park)  and  94127  (West  Portal,  St.  Francis  Wood 
and  Miraloma).  Overall,  these  trips  would  represent  about  13  percent  of  the  total  activity  to 
and  from  the  proposed  project. 

Since  Cortland  Avenue  is  a  narrow  street,  with  STOP  signs,  grade  changes  and  relatively 
slow  traffic,  it  was  assumed  that  drivers  from  other  areas  would  tend  to  use  other  east/west 
roadways,  such  as  Cesar  Chavez  Street  and  Alemany  Boulevard,  when  possible.  As 
compared  to  these  two  streets,  Cortland  Avenue  has  substantially  lower  existing  traffic 
volumes  during  both  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  analysis  periods,  reflecting  its 
function  as  a  local  collector  street.  Pages  6 1  through  68  of  the  DEIR  present  the  results  of 
the  analysis  of  traffic  conditions  at  the  study  intersections,  including  a  queuing  assessment. 
While  delays  along  Cortland  Avenue  would  increase  with  the  additional  traffic  generated  by 
the  proposed  project,  all  intersections  would  continue  to  operate  at  intersection  level  of 
service  (LOS)  D  or  better  and,  as  such,  queuing  similar  to  that  described  by  the  commenter  at 
the  Colma  Home  Depot  is  not  anticipated  to  occur.  (See  Response  to  Comment  #64  for  a 
discussion  of  LOS  methodology.) 

Page  59  of  the  DEIR  presents  the  distribution  of  vehicles  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the 
project  site.  The  trip  assignment  does  not  assume  that  15  percent  of  the  project  customers 
would  use  Loomis  Street  as  their  primary  access  route  to  and  from  the  project.  Instead,  it 
was  estimated  that  15  percent  of  the  customers  would  use  the  driveway  located  on  Loomis 
Street  to  enter  and  exit  the  project  site  (the  remaining  85  percent  would  use  the  other 
driveways  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Waterloo  Street).  A  portion  of  the  trips  to/from  the 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.102 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

east  (i.e.,  from  Bayview  Hunters  Point)  and  to/from  Alemany  Boulevard  would  use  the 
Loomis  Street  driveway,  because  it  would  be  more  direct  and  convenient  than  the  Bayshore 
Boulevard  and  Waterloo  Street  driveways. 

Only  long-distance  trips  were  assumed  to  use  1-280  or  U.S.  101  to  travel  to  and  from  the 
project,  including  trips  to/from  southwestern  and  northeastern  San  Francisco  and  the 
Peninsula.  Overall,  it  was  estimated  that  less  than  25  percent  of  the  trips  generated  by  the 
project  would  use  1-280  or  U.S.  101  as  the  primary  access  route  to  and  from  the  project. 

Information  on  the  types  of  vehicles  that  would  travel  to  and  from  the  project  is  not  available; 
however,  the  vehicle  mix  would  include  private  autos  and  commercial  vehicles,  including 
contractor  and  delivery  trucks.  The  intersection  operations  analysis  assumed  a  vehicular  mix 
(autos  versus  trucks)  similar  to  existing  conditions  at  the  study  intersections.  The  project's 
vehicular  mix  during  the  PM  peak  hour  of  analysis  is  anticipated  to  be  similar  to  existing 
conditions,  and  as  such  the  impact  analysis  need  not  be  affected. 

Comment  #45 

"Pages  73  and  75  [of  the  DEIR]:  The  conclusion  that  delivery  and  construction  vehicles  will  use 
U.S.  101  or  1-280  is  not  supported  with  evidence  or  analysis.  The  assumption  that  delivery  and 
construction  vehicles  will  approach  the  project  from  the  two  closest  freeway  exits  does  not  take  into 
account  the  terrible  congestion  during  much  of  the  day  in  both  directions  on  these  freeways."  (Eve 
Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron 
Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #45 

Typically,  Home  Depot  trucks  make  deliveries  to  several  stores  in  a  row.  As  such,  they 
would  usually  come  from  or  go  to  other  stores  on  the  Peninsula.  For  these  trips,  using  U.S. 
101  and/or  1-280  would  be  the  most  convenient  and  direct  route.  In  addition,  most  of  the 
delivery  activity  at  Home  Depot  stores  occurs  during  non-peak  periods  (such  as  between 
10:00  a.m.  and  1:00  p.m.,  or  overnight),  during  which  time  conditions  on  the  freeway 
network  are  less  congested. 

Approximately  40  percent  of  Home  Depot  deliveries  are  made  by  Home  Depot-controlled 
trucks;  the  remainder  are  made  by  individual  vendors.  The  project  sponsor  has  committed  to 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.103 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

developing  access  routes  for  all  Home  Depot-controlled  trucks  that  would  entail  a  minimal 
use  of  city  streets. 

Similarly,  the  construction-related  trucks  that  would  come  from  the  Peninsula/South  Bay 
would  likely  use  U.S.  101  or  1-280  due  to  the  length  of  the  trip  (note  that  trucks  that  would 
travel  within  San  Francisco  would  likely  use  local  streets).  Construction  activities  are 
anticipated  to  occur  between  6:00  a.m.  and  5:00  p.m.,  but  the  project  sponsor  may  work  with 
the  construction  contractor  and  subcontractors  to  limit  construction  trips  to  non-commute 
hours.  Overall,  most  construction-related  activity  would  likely  occur  during  the  middle  of 
the  day,  during  which  time  conditions  on  the  freeway  network  are  less  congested. 

The  project  sponsor  has  committed  to  work  with  the  construction  contractors  and 
subcontractors  to  develop  a  routing  plan  that  entails  a  minimal  use  of  city  streets.  The  project 
sponsor  would  work  with  the  Committee  for  Utility  Liaison  on  Construction  and  Other 
Projects  (CULCOP,  the  City's  construction  committee)  to  identify  truck  routes  for  the 
construction  activity  and  inform  the  adjacent  neighborhoods  of  the  truck  routes  established. 
When  developed,  this  information  will  be  available  for  public  review  at  the  appropriate  City 
agencies.  It  should  be  noted  that  in  San  Francisco,  construction-related  impacts  are  generally 
not  considered  significant  due  to  their  temporary  and  limited  duration. 

Comment  #46 

"Page  57:  The  DEIR  must  assess  daily  traffic  conditions  as  well  as  weekday  and  weekend  peak  hour 
conditions.  Increased  daily  traffic  represents  a  potentially  significant  impact  of  the  project  for  all 
vehicles  that  could  be  greater  than  peak  hour  impacts  alone.  Congestion  within  Bernal  Heights  is 
spread  across  most  of  the  day.  About  30  percent  of  Home  Depot  customers  were  estimated  to  be 
'professional  contractors'  by  a  Home  Depot  official  during  a  zoning  hearing  for  a  Home  Depot  in 
Warrenton,  Virginia.1  Contractors  would  not  generally  make  trips  to  Home  Depot  in  the  evening. 

"It  also  appears  that  truck  traffic  generated  by  the  project  could  occur  at  night,  according  to  the  Home 
Depot  Annual  Report  for  2002  that  references  '...our  new  in-store  Service  Performance  Improvement 
(SPI)  initiative,  in  which  our  stores  handle  and  receive  inventory  at  night...'  Traffic  and  nighttime 
noise  impacts  over  the  entire  day  must  be  analyzed."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara 
Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 
Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  The  Fauquier  Citizen  (Fauquier  County,  Virginia). 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.104 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Response  #46 

The  San  Francisco  Interim  Transportation  Impact  Analysis  Guidelines  for  Environmental 
Review,  which  present  the  framework  for  conducting  transportation  impact  analyses,  focus  on 
the  potential  impacts  of  a  project  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour.  In  general,  daily  traffic 
volumes  are  not  considered  in  terms  of  transportation  impact  analysis.  As  discussed  on  pages 
57  through  59  of  the  DEIR,  traffic  conditions  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  are  assessed 
since  they  represent  the  worst  conditions  of  the  local  transportation  network.  However,  since 
Home  Depot  stores  usually  generate  more  traffic  on  weekends  than  weekdays,  an  additional 
Saturday  midday  peak  hour  analysis  was  also  conducted.  At  other  times,  the  traffic  volumes 
on  the  adjacent  streets  would  be  lower,  or  the  project  would  generate  fewer  vehicle-trips.  As 
such,  this  analysis  addresses  the  highest  potential  impacts  associated  with  the  project.  During 
the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hours,  the  DEIR  found  that  the  project  would  not 
result  in  any  significant  traffic  impacts.  As  a  result,  it  was  concluded  that  the  project  would 
not  result  in  any  significant  traffic  impacts  during  other  periods.  For  analysis  of  noise 
impacts,  refer  to  Response  to  Comment  #127. 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  weekday  peak  hour  of  activity  for  land  uses  similar  to  the  project 
typically  occurs  during  the  middle  of  the  day.  Although  the  project  would  generate  more 
vehicles  during  this  peak  hour  of  activity  (about  25  percent  higher  than  during  the  PM  peak 
hour,  as  discussed  on  page  58  of  the  DEIR),  the  traffic  volumes  at  the  surrounding 
intersections  are  lower  during  this  hour  than  during  the  PM  peak  hour.  As  a  result,  it  is 
assumed  that  intersection  operating  conditions  during  the  peak  hour  of  activity  would  be 
equal  to,  or  better  than,  conditions  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour. 

The  transportation  analysis  conducted  for  the  project  addresses  the  potential  impacts  to  the 
local  street  network  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site,  including  several  study  intersections 
along  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue.  It  was  found  that  the  additional  vehicles 
generated  by  the  project  would  not  significantly  impact  the  operating  conditions  at  the  study 
intersections,  and  would  not  result  in  substantial  congestion  or  degradation  in  conditions 
along  the  nearby  streets. 

According  to  Home  Depot,  stores  typically  are  open  weekdays  and  Saturdays  6:00  a.m.  to 
10:00  p.m.  and  Sundays  7:00  a.m.  to  8:00  p.m.  In  the  future,  the  proposed  store  may  be  open 

2001.0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./196  Loomis  Street 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

24-hours.  Contractors  generally  visit  the  store  during  the  early  morning  -  typically  before 
8:00  a.m.  In  addition,  Home  Depot  estimates  that  a  portion  of  the  deliveries  to  the  project 
would  occur  overnight  and  in  the  early  morning.  However,  these  trips  combined  would  not 
generate  more  trips  than  the  project  during  the  weekday  AM  peak  hour,  and  therefore  would 
not  result  in  any  significant  traffic  impacts.  See  also  Response  to  Comment  #48  regarding 
the  analysis  of  weekday  AM  peak  hour  conditions,  and  Response  to  Comment  #45  for  more 
detailed  discussion  of  truck  delivery  routes. 

Comment  #47 

"The  problem  is  compounded  by  the  fact  that  many  of  the  workers  will  be  part-time,  resulting  in  a 
greater  number  of  trips  to  and  from  the  site  per  day.  In  a  new  store  in  Ithaca,  New  York,  40  percent 
of  the  jobs  will  be  part-time.1  The  other  complicating  factor  is  that  the  store  operates  seven  days  a 
week  for  more  than  one  8-hour  shift  (this  obviously  needs  to  be  factored  into  the  air  quality  analysis). 

1  Ithacajournal.com,  April  25,  2003. 

"The  EIR  must  demonstrate  that  the  EIR  uses  a  trip  generation  rate  that  accounts  for  all  employees  - 
permanent,  temporary,  probationary,  full-time,  and  part-time  -  and  everyone  else  who  travels  to  and 
from  the  site."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee 
Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #47 

The  travel  demand  for  the  project  was  based  on  driveway  counts  conducted  at  four  similar 
Home  Depot  stores  throughout  California,  which  included  both  visitors  and  employees  of 
each  store.  The  four  stores  were  selected  since  they  shared  common  attributes  with  the 
proposed  project,  including  access  (free-standing  or  with  separate  entrances/exits  for  their 
parking  facilities)  and  location  (within  urbanized  areas).  As  such,  the  trip  generation  rates 
used  in  the  analysis  would  incorporate  all  employee-related  trips  during  the  PM  peak  hour 
(whether  part-time  or  full-time  employees),  and  separate  trip  generation  calculations  for 
employee  trips  were  not  necessary.  Based  on  information  provided  by  the  project  sponsor, 
about  35  percent  of  the  employees  at  the  proposed  store  would  be  part-time  employees  (as 
discussed  in  Response  to  Comments  #36). 

See  Responses  to  Comments  #115  through  #126  for  the  discussion  and  analysis  of  air  quality. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.106 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Comment  #48 

"And  the  busiest  traffic  period  for  this  intersection,  the  morning  commute  hour,  was  not  even  studied 
at  all."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair; 
and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

"There  was  no  study  of  morning  rush  hour  patterns  and  whether  the  early  opening  of  the  store  and  its 
use  by  contractors  will  coincide  with  the  morning  commute.  Bayshore  Boulevard  becomes  very  slow 
in  the  morning  commute  hours  and  is  sure  to  be  affected  by  added  vehicular  traffic."  (Nic  Griffin, 
Resident) 

"I  used  to  be  able  to  look  out  my  back  window,  and  look  down  on  the  old  Goodman's,  so  go  down 
Bradford  Street  and  I  get  to  Cortland  Street.  I  would  say  the  worst  traffic  on  Cortland  Street  is 
between  6:00  and  7:30  in  the  morning,  and  that's  commuters  from  Bernal  Heights  who  are  going 
down  Cortland  Street  and  onto  Bayshore  Boulevard."  (Robert  Heacock,  Resident) 

Response  #48 

A  supplemental  analysis  (documented  in  a  technical  memorandum  titled  491  Bayshore 
Boulevard  Home  Depot  -  AM  Peak  Hour  Conditions,  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  January  8, 
2004) 18  was  conducted  to  determine  weekday  AM  peak  hour  intersection  operating 
conditions  for  three  key  intersections  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site:  Bayshore/ 
Industrial/Alemany,  Bayshore/Cortland,  and  Mission/Cortland.  These  intersections  were 
selected  since  they  would  most  likely  be  affected  by  spillover  congestion  from  the  freeways 
and  would  provide  a  general  characterization  of  conditions  to  and  from  the  Bernal  Heights 
area. 

Turning  movement  counts  were  conducted  on  Tuesday,  October  14,  2003,  during  the 
weekday  AM  peak  period  (6:30  to  9:00  a.m.)  for  the  three  study  intersections,  and 
intersection  LOS  were  developed  for  the  peak  hour  of  the  peak  period  (generally  7:30  to  8:30 
a.m.).  During  the  weekday  AM  peak  hour,  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  operates  at 
LOS  C,  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Industrial  operates  at  LOS  D  and  the  intersection  of 
Mission/Cortland  operates  at  LOS  C. 

In  addition,  field  observations  were  performed  throughout  October  2003  at  the  study 
intersections  and  along  Cortland  Avenue  to  determine  how  the  streets  and  intersection 
approaches  currently  function  during  the  morning  commute  period.  Currently,  all  three  study 

18  This  document  is  on  file  and  available  for  public  review  by  appointment  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning 
Department,  1660  Mission  Street,  Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco,  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E!. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.107 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

intersections  have  relatively  low  average  delays  per  vehicle.  Although  some  specific 
approaches  and  movements  were  observed  to  have  congestion  and  additional  vehicular 
delays  (such  as  the  northbound  left-turn  movement  at  Bayshore/Cortland,  the  eastbound 
approach  at  Bayshore/Industrial  and  the  southbound  left-turn  movement  at  Mission/ 
Cortland),  conditions  at  these  locations  did  not  substantially  affect  intersection  operations  and 
the  problems  did  not  extend  for  a  long  duration.  Along  Cortland  Avenue,  between  Bayshore 
Boulevard  and  Mission  Street,  traffic  generally  flowed  without  major  delays  or  impedance, 
and  travel  speeds  were  relatively  slow  due  to  the  grade  changes,  frequent  STOP  signs,  narrow 
street  right-of-way  and  bus  operations,  not  due  to  excessive  traffic  volumes. 

The  weekday  AM  peak  hour  intersection  operating  conditions  were  also  compared  to  the 
weekday  PM  peak  hour  conditions  developed  for  the  DEIR,  as  a  means  to  qualitatively  assess 
morning  operating  conditions  with  the  project.  Under  existing  weekday  PM  peak  hour 
conditions,  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  operates  at  LOS  C,  the  intersection  of 
Bayshore/Industrial  operates  at  LOS  D  and  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland  operates  at 
LOS  B.  The  PM  peak  hour  LOS  operating  conditions  are  similar  to  those  calculated  for  the 
weekday  AM  peak  hour,  except  for  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland,  which  operates  at 
LOS  C  during  the  AM  peak  hour. 

To  estimate  the  travel  demand  associated  with  the  project  during  the  weekday  AM  peak  hour, 
data  from  the  ITE  Trip  Generation  manual  was  used  (new  driveway  counts  at  other  Home 
Depot  stores  were  not  conducted).  For  a  "Home  Improvement  Superstore"  (ITE  land  use 
#862),  the  trip  generation  of  the  AM  peak  hour  is  approximately  half  the  trip  generation  of 
the  PM  peak  hour.  The  trip  generation  reflects  the  early  opening  and  long  hours  of  stand- 
alone (i.e.,  not  part  of  a  retail  complex)  home  improvement  stores  such  as  the  proposed  Home 
Depot.  It  was  estimated  that  the  project  would  generate  about  half  the  number  of  vehicle- 
trips  during  the  weekday  AM  peak  hour  as  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  as 
documented  in  the  DEIR.  As  discussed  in  the  DEIR,  the  project  would  not  have  any 
significant  traffic  impacts  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour.  Since  the  intersection 
operating  conditions  for  the  weekday  AM  peak  hour  and  PM  peak  hour  are  similar,  and  since 
the  project  would  generate  substantially  fewer  trips  during  the  weekday  AM  peak  hour  than 
during  the  PM  peak  hour,  it  was  anticipated  that  the  project  would  also  not  result  in  any 
significant  traffic  impacts  during  the  weekday  AM  peak  hour  even  at  the  intersection  of 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.108 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Mission/Cortland  (when  conditions  are  slightly  better  in  the  PM  peak  hour  than  during  the 
AM  peak  hour). 

Comment  #49 

"The  baseline  traffic  counts  are  very  low  in  comparison  to  historic  traffic  on  Bayshore  Boulevard. 
The  most  recent  counts  reflect  a  very  slow  economy  in  San  Francisco,  and  [the  volume  of  through 
traffic]  on  Bayshore  [is]  in  many  cases  more  than  10  percent  under  comparable  data  collected  two 
years  ago."  (Charles  M.  Abrams,  President,  Abrams  Associates) 

"In  addition,  the  Transportation  Study  understates  traffic  volumes  on  U.S.  101  as  220,000  vehicles 
per  day  in  2000. 1  The  correct  figures  for  2000,  2001,  and  2002  are  in  the  range  of  250,000  to 
270,000."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair; 
and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  Transportation  Study,  9/17/02,  page  2-1. 

"Pages  44  to  48  [of  the  DEIR:]  Traffic  Operating  Conditions  -  The  base  period  for  the  traffic  counts 
is  during  a  recession.  During  the  period  1999-2000,  when  the  dotcom  boom  was  in  full  swing  and 
when  commercial  spaces  were  occupied  in  the  South  of  Market,  Potrero  Hill,  and  Mission 
neighborhoods,  there  was  substantially  more  traffic  in  the  Potrero/B  ay  shore  corridor.  The  current 
traffic  counts  are  based  on  vacant  commercial  buildings  and  a  dramatic  drop  in  employment  in  that 
area.  Potrero  and  Bayshore  are  used  as  spillover  routes  to  access  101,  280,  and  eastern 
neighborhoods  when  101  and  280  are  congested.  Traffic  counts  done  in  that  area  in  the  1999/2000 
period  show  that  congestion. 

"Does  this  EIR  assume  that  those  spaces  will  never  be  reoccupied  and  that  the  current  recession  will 
continue  for  5  years?  10  years?  To  2015?  For  another  generation? 

"If  that  is  not  the  assumption,  traffic  levels  must  be  adjusted  to  include  occupancy  in  the  building 
which  are  currently  vacant.  This  is  not  new  construction,  but  buildings  which  are  already 
constructed,  for  which  no  further  environmental  evaluation  will  be  required,  and  for  which  conditions 
and  impacts  will  change  simply  by  tenants  moving  in. 

"Were  there  identifiable  trends  in  levels  of  traffic  in  the  spring  2001,  fall  2001,  and  winter  2002 
measurements?"  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

"On  the  other  hand,  the  Office  Max  has  been  shut  down  for  quite  some  time,  and  there  is  an  antique 
store  on  the  other  side.  So  I  think  the  Office  Max  is  something  else  now;  I  think  there  would  be  less 
impact  there."  (Bill  Lee,  Planning  Commissioner) 

Response  #49 

Traffic  counts  were  conducted  by  the  transportation  consultant  in  the  spring  of  200 1 ,  fall  of 
2001,  and  winter  of  2002.  Overall,  these  counts  were  relatively  consistent  and  did  not 
indicate  any  substantial  changes  to  the  street  volumes  over  the  two-year  period.  It  should  be 
noted  that  the  traffic  volume  counts  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  were  conducted  after  the 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.  1 09 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

existing  uses  on  the  project  site  (Goodman's  Lumber  and  Whole  Earth  Access)  were  closed, 
but  when  the  nearby  OfficeMax  store  at  625  Bayshore  Boulevard  was  still  in  operation. 

At  the  time  the  analysis  for  the  DEIR  was  conducted,  the  Planning  Department  had  not 
received  any  project  information  or  future  development  plans  for  any  site  along  this  portion 
of  Bayshore  Boulevard,  including  the  now-vacant  OfficeMax  site. 

The  traffic  analysis  (for  all  analysis  scenarios)  does  not  assume  that  any  of  the  vacant  parcels 
in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site  would  never  be  reoccupied  in  the  future.  The  existing 
conditions,  as  documented  in  the  study,  reflect  the  traffic  and  roadway  conditions  that  are 
currently  present,  and  do  not  include  potential  reuse  of  vacant  buildings  in  the  area.  The 
future  growth  in  activity,  whether  it  be  from  the  reuse  of  vacant  buildings  or  new 
development,  is  addressed  in  the  analysis  of  the  2015  Cumulative  conditions.  These 
conditions  include  a  substantial  increase  in  traffic  volumes  along  the  major  streets  and 
freeways  in  the  area  (an  average  of  one  percent  per  year)  that  would  include  the  potential  of 
new  development  or  reuse  of  nearby  buildings. 

The  daily  traffic  volumes  on  U.S.  101  and  1-280  were  obtained  from  Caltrans.  In  2000  (when 
the  DEIR  was  initiated),  the  average  daily  traffic  on  U.S.  101  at  the  junction  of 
I-280/Alemany  was  221,000  vehicles.  In  subsequent  years,  Caltrans  has  report  average  daily 
traffic  volumes  of  224,000  vehicles  in  2001  and  in  2002  (a  variation  of  less  than  1.5  percent, 
and  within  the  daily  variation  of  traffic  volumes).  As  such,  the  values  presented  in  the 
Transportation  Study  are  consistent  with  current  conditions. 

Comment  #50 

"Page  59:  The  DEIR  does  not  substantiate  its  claim  that  the  trip  generation  rate  used  is  higher  than 
the  ITE  rate  would  be.  The  DEIR  makes  the  claim  that  it  is  using  a  higher  rate  than  the  ITE  rate  for  a 
'similar  land  use,'  but  does  not  tell  us  what  that  'similar'  land  use  is  and  what  the  ITE  rate  is.  This  is 
another  example  of  a  conclusion  that  has  not  been  documented."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology 
Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights 
Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.110 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Response  #50 

As  documented  in  the  Transportation  Study  (Page  3-3),  the  ITE  Trip  Generation  manual19 
includes  a  "Home  Improvement  Superstore"  land  use  (#862).  For  this  use,  ITE  has  estimated 
that  there  would  be  2.87  vehicle-trips  per  1,000  square  feet  during  the  weekday  PM  peak 
hour,  5.40  vehicle-trips  per  1,000  square  feet  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  and  3.62 
vehicle-trips  per  1,000  square  feet  during  the  weekday  peak  hour  of  generator  (the  hour 
during  the  week  which  has  the  highest  activity  level).  These  trip  generation  rates  are  50  to 
100  percent  lower  than  those  used  to  determine  the  potential  impacts  associated  with  the 
project.  As  described  in  Response  to  Comment  #42,  the  trip  generation  of  the  project  was 
based  on  driveway  counts  conducted  at  similar  Home  Depot  stores  in  California,  and  was 
estimated  to  be  5.54  vehicle-trips  per  1,000  square  feet  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour, 
8.28  vehicle-trips  per  1,000  square  feet  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  and  6.93 
vehicle-trips  per  1 ,000  square  feet  during  the  weekday  midday  peak  hour. 

Comment  #5 1 

"I've  read  the  EIR  cover  to  cover  and  found  it  inadequate.  It  claims  traffic  levels  on  Cortland  are 
acceptable  now,  and  they  aren't. 

"The  raw  numbers  are  wrong.  The  traffic  counter  nearest  our  house  was  on  Cortland  between 
Prentiss  and  Banks.  It  was  sabotaged  during  the  count.  I  found  its  cord  in  the  gutter.  Not  knowing 
how  important  these  estimates  would  turn  out  later  to  be,  I  just  re-strung  it  across  the  traffic.  I 
assumed  it  was  a  kids'  prank.  But  if  other  sensors  were  also  vandalized,  the  undercount  for  all  of 
Cortland  could  be  serious. 

"I  live  at  Cortland  &  Prentiss.  Just  below  us  on  the  hill,  Cortland  bends  abruptly.  Many  trucks 
already  come  up  the  hill,  barely  make  the  curve,  and  stop  in  front  of  our  house,  then  backup  into  our 
narrow  side-street,  beeping  and  belching  soot  -  using  us  as  a  turn-around.  Then  go  back  down  the 
hill.  These  aren't  lost  drivers  -  it's  the  same  lines  &  trucks,  over  and  over.  You've  been  assuming 
that  most  truck  traffic,  if  it  uses  Cortland  at  all,  stops  close  to  Bayshore  at  the  businesses  at  the  foot 
of  the  hill.  But  this  may  not  be  true.  A  larger  proportion  of  Cortland's  traffic  than  you  think  is  trucks 
already,  at  least  at  our  corner.  Again,  we're  just  below  the  Bank  Street  counter,  so  these  visits  (and 
their  constant  noise  and  soot)  wouldn't  have  registered  except  as  traffic  at  the  foot  of  the  hill."  (Chris 
Pagels,  Resident) 

Response  #5 1 

The  traffic  volume  counts  conducted  for  the  transportation  study  were  performed  manually, 
with  count  technicians  stationed  at  each  intersection.  No  automatic  24-hour  traffic  counters 
were  used.  Any  problems  with  automatic  traffic  counters  placed  on  Cortland  Avenue  for  a 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.lll 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

different  study  would  not  affect  the  data  and  results  of  the  traffic  analysis  contained  in  the 
DEIR. 


According  to  information  in  the  South  Bernal  Heights  Traffic  Calming  Study,  Final  Report, 
approximately  3  to  7  percent  of  daily  traffic  volumes  on  Cortland  Avenue  are  heavy  vehicles 
(including  trucks,  buses  and  other  multi-axle  vehicles).  The  highest  volume  of  heavy 
vehicles  on  Cortland  Avenue  was  reported  between  Peralta  Avenue  and  Bayshore  Boulevard, 
due  to  the  concentration  of  warehouses  and  industrial  buildings  at  the  eastern  end  of  the 
street. 


See  Responses  to  Comments  #67  through  #70  regarding  general  traffic  conditions  on 
Cortland  Avenue. 


Comment  #52 

"Page  34  [of  the  DEIR:]  Does  the  patronage/traffic  assumptions  for  this  store  assume  a  shift  of  the 
business  currently  handled  in  neighborhood  shopping  areas  to  this  Home  Depot?  How  much  of  a 
shift?  How  has  this  affected  increases  of  traffic  out  of  the  neighborhood  shopping  area  to  Bayshore 
and  Cortland?  If  the  assumptions  do  not  include  such  a  shift,  what  would  be  the  effect,  particularly 
on  increased  traffic,  if  Home  Depot  undercut  (at  least  for  a  time)  neighborhood  hardware,  nurseries, 
and  home  improvement  stores  such  that  most  of  them  went  out  of  business?"  (Sue  C  Hestor, 
Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

"The  DEIR  fails  to  consider  the  additional  traffic  that  will  be  caused  by  the  closure  of  neighborhood 
home  supply  stores.  Due  to  the  size  of  its  corporation  -  which  allows  the  stores  to  charge 
significantly  lower  prices  -  the  openings  of  Home  Depot  stores  inevitably  cause  the  closure  of 
smaller,  neighborhood  stores  with  which  Home  Depot  competes.  The  customers  who  were  once  able 
to  shop  in  their  own  neighborhoods  are  then  forced  to  drive  to  Home  Depot.  For  example,  if  Cole 
Hardware  on  Mission  Street  is  forced  out  of  business  by  the  project,  those  of  us  who  now  walk  there 
will  be  forced  to  drive  to  Home  Depot,  because  it  is  too  far  to  walk.  These  closures  of  neighborhood 
stores  will  cause  a  significant  amount  of  additional  traffic,  in  turn  causing  additional  air  pollution, 
noise,  and  adverse  impacts  to  pedestrians,  none  of  which  were  considered  by  the  DEIR."  (Jeff 
Hoffman,  Resident) 

Response  #52 

The  trip  generation  rates  used  for  the  analysis  of  the  project  were  based  on  actual  driveway 
counts  conducted  at  other  Home  Depot  stores  throughout  California.  It  is  anticipated  that 
these  counts  would  include  all  types  of  trips,  including  those  from  other  hardware  stores  in 


City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic,  South  Bernal  Heights  Traffic  Calming 
Study,  Final  Report,  November  2002. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.112 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

the  vicinity,  were  such  trips  to  occur.  All  trips  generated  by  the  project  were  assumed  to  be 
via  automobile,  and  therefore  were  included  in  the  traffic,  air  quality,  pedestrian,  and  other 
impact  analyses.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  market  research  analysis  was  conducted  by  an 
independent  firm  for  Home  Depot  and  was  used  to  determine  the  distribution  of  trips 
accounted  for  the  location  of  competitor  stores.21  See  Response  to  Comment  #44  regarding 
how  market  research  data  was  used  in  the  analysis. 

At  this  time,  the  nearest  local  hardware  store  (Cole  Hardware)  is  located  on  Mission  Street, 
near  29th  Street.  There  are  a  number  of  home  improvement  and  contractor  supply  stores 
along  Bayshore  Boulevard,  including  the  Floorcraft  Garden  Center  (a  garden 
store/nursery/carpet  store),  located  at  550  Bayshore  Boulevard  (directly  west  of  the  project 
site),  the  Kitchen  and  Bath  Expo  at  390  Bayshore,  the  Marble,  Granite,  Tile  store  at  368 
Bayshore  and  Golden  Gate  Interiors  at  362  Bayshore.  South  of  the  project  site,  the  Bayshore 
Builders  Supply  is  located  on  Loomis  Street,  Best  Tile  at  625  Bayshore,  and  GGI  Natural 
Stone  at  6 1 5  Bayshore.  It  may  be  possible  that  customers  to  these  sites  decide  to  patronize 
the  proposed  project.  As  indicated  above,  the  trip  generation  accounts  for  all  anticipated  trips 
to  the  project.  If  other  businesses  in  the  area  were  to  close  due  to  the  presence  of  the  project, 
there  would  be  a  reduction  in  the  traffic  volumes  destined  to  and  from  these  establishments. 
However,  the  number  of  trips  generated  by  the  project  would  not  change  and  would  not 
change  the  conclusions  reached  in  the  DEIR. 

For  discussion  of  business  displacement,  see  Responses  to  Comments  #153,  #24,  and  #28. 
Comment  #53 

"The  transportation  study  prepared  for  the  Draft  EIR  is  based  on  several  'worst  case'  assumptions, 
each  one  compounding  the  next,  and  uses  calculations  and  assumptions  derived  in  an  overly 
conservative  manner.  The  result  is  an  extreme  scenario  that  is  very  unlikely  to  happen.  This  is  an 
effective  method  to  use  in  preparing  the  Draft  EIR,  as  it  leads  to  the  identification  of  every  traffic 
impact  that  could  possibly  occur,  but  in  reality  the  traffic  impacts  of  the  store  will  likely  be  far  less 
intense.  Our  analysis  of  these  issues  is  based  on  a  peer  traffic  review  conducted  by  Overland  Traffic 
Consultants  (the  'Overland  Study'),  a  copy  of  which  is  attached  as  Exhibit  A  to  this  letter.  [Refer  to 
Appendix  E  of  this  document,  Anna  C.  Shimko  Letter  dated  July  11,  2003.]  The  Overland  Study 
presents  and  employs  more  realistic  assumptions  to  analyze  the  'real  world'  traffic  effects  of  the 


21  The  market  research  data  used  in  the  analysis  is  available  for  review  by  appointment  at  the  Planning  Department, 
at  1660  Mission  Street,  Fifth  floor,  San  Francisco  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.  1 1 3 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

project.  The  Overland  Study  finds  that  the  Draft  EIR  overestimated  traffic  volume  by  approximately 
20%.  The  revised,  more  realistic  traffic  volume  for  the  site  would  result  in  shorter  waits  at 
intersections,  and,  most  significantly,  no  increase  in  density  levels  on  the  freeway  ramp  junctions 
currently  at  Level  of  Service  F.  This  means  that  the  project  will  have  no  significant  and  unmitigable 
impacts  at  freeway  ramp  junctions."  (Anna  C.  Shimko,  Attorney  at  Law  for  Home  Depot) 

Response  #53 

The  transportation  study  followed  standard  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  approaches 
and  methodologies  for  determining  project  travel  demand  and  analyzing  impacts  of  the 
project,  and  includes  a  number  of  conservative  assumptions  (e.g.,  that  all  employees  would 
drive  alone  to  the  project  and  that  all  project-generated  trips  would  be  via  automobile). 
Although  it  is  possible  that  there  would  be  fewer  vehicle-trips  traveling  to  and  from  the 
project  site,  as  suggested  in  the  Overland  Study,  the  reduction  would  likely  not  be  substantial 
enough  to  change  the  future  freeway  ramp  and  intersection  operating  conditions,  and  it  is 
anticipated  that  the  project  would  continue  to  have  significant  contribution  to  all  freeway  on- 
ramp  locations  that  were  identified  as  operating  at  LOS  F  under  2015  Cumulative  conditions 
(see  DEIR  pages  79  through  81). 


Traffic  Calming  Study 

Comment  #54 

"Traffic  Calming  Studies  Finds  Hotspots,  But  DEIR  Ignores  Them.  While  the  DEIR  claims  that 
traffic  on  Cortland  and  other  residential  streets  is  relatively  light,  the  City's  Department  of  Parking 
and  Traffic  found  enough  traffic  problems  in  Bernal  Heights  to  perform  a  Traffic  Calming  Study. 
The  Traffic  Calming  Study  identified  many  issues  of  concern  along  Cortland  Avenue:  cut-through 
traffic  along  the  entire  street  between  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Mission  Street;  collision  hot-spots  at 
many  intersections  along  Cortland;  and  congestion  at  the  intersections  of  Cortland/Andover  and 
Mission/Cortland.  It  found  similar  problems  at  the  intersection  of  Alemany/Putnam/101  southbound 
off-ramp. 

"The  Traffic  Calming  Study's  figures  on  total  collisions  at  various  intersections  between  1995  and 
1999  are  somewhat  alarming.  The  worst  intersection,  at  Crescent  Avenue  and  Alemany  Boulevard, 
has  seen  54  collisions  during  this  four-year  period,  which  caused  injuries  to  58  people.  Twenty-three 
collisions  at  Cortland  and  Mission  caused  26  injuries.  These  findings  suggest  that  the  simple  LOS 
assignments  to  intersections  do  not  portray  the  complete  picture  of  the  actual  traffic  situation  in  a 
neighborhood."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee 
Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.114 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

"Bernal  Heights  is  a  neighborhood  that  is  severely  constrained  by  its  physical  characteristics.  There 
are  few  through  streets  because  of  the  constraints  of  the  hills  on  which  it  sits.  The  only  street  that 
goes  through  the  neighborhood  from  east  to  west  is  Cortland  Avenue.  This  is  also  the  business  and 
pedestrian  center  of  the  neighborhood,  and  is  a  key  gathering  place.  Traffic  problems  on  Cortland 
Avenue  have  already  been  documented,  and  the  City  has  designed  in  conjunction  with  the 
neighborhood  and  is  carrying  out  traffic  calming  plans."  (Amy  D.  Kyle,  Ph.D.,  M.P.H.,  Resident) 

"The  city  recently  did  a  traffic  calming  study  for  the  South  Bernal  Heights  area.  The  information  and 
suggestions  from  that  report  should  be  incorporated  into  this  traffic  report.  I  am  concerned  that  we 
will  see  more  accidents  on  Crescent  and  Cortland  because  there  are  not  enough  pedestrian-friendly 
crosswalks.  The  recommendation[s]  of  the  traffic  calming  report  are  desperately  needed.  The  Home 
Depot  project  would  increase  our  neighborhood's  concerns."  (Amy  C.  Miller  and  Virginia  Bowen, 
Residents) 

"I  work  at  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center,  and  just  a  couple  of  comments.  There  have  been  a 
lot  of  comments  made  regarding  the  traffic  and  environmental  impact  report.  One  point  -  actually 
two  points  that  I  would  like  to  make  are  first,  regarding  the  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic's 
detailed  traffic-calming  study  that  was  made  in  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood:  It  was  a  very 
comprehensive  study,  and  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood  was  made  a  pilot  project  by  the  Department 
of  Parking  and  Traffic,  partly  because  of  activism  from  the  neighbors  in  Bernal  Heights,  and  partly 
because  there  was  a  significant  traffic  impact  and  subsequent  pedestrian  safety  impact  in  Bernal 
Heights  currently.  And  the  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic's  traffic  calming  study  and  subsequent 
recommendations  for  modifying  the  routing  and  making  provisions  for  mitigating  the  current  impacts 
has  not  been  referenced  in  the  DEIR.  It  needs  to  be.  It  actually  kind  of  goes  both  ways.  One  is  the 
increased  traffic  from  the  store,  it  needs  to  be  evaluated  how  the  increased  traffic  impacts  pedestrian 
safety.  And  conversely,  once  there  are  mitigations  made  because  of  the  traffic-calming  measures, 
those  will  additionally  impact  the  way  traffic  flows  through  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood.  So  it 
goes  both  ways.  So  that  will  actually  impact  the  way  that  people  get  to  the  store  through  the 
neighborhood."  (Joseph  Smook,  Resident) 

"I  attended  the  Traffic  Calming  meetings  last  year  at  the  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Association, 
and  I  must  say  not  only  have  we  not  had  positive  change  as  a  result  of  that,  but  now  we  have  this 
Home  Depot  plan  which  is  bound  to  add  to  our  traffic  congestion  and  air  pollution.  There  is 
obviously  already  a  problem  on  Bernal  that  the  Traffic  Calming  study  was  initiated.  Now  we  will 
have  thousands  more  vehicles  -  mostly  trucks  and  larger  types  -  trying  to  use  Cortland  as  a  driveway 
into  Home  Depot."  (Jennifer  Ware,  Resident) 

Response  #54 

As  indicated  in  the  DEIR  on  page  50,  the  results  of  the  Bernal  Heights  Traffic  Calming 
Project,  as  documented  in  the  South  Bernal  Heights  Traffic  Calming  Study,  Final  Report, 
(November  2002),  were  incorporated  into  the  transportation  study.  Along  Cortland  Avenue, 
the  study  identified  the  following  concerns:  cut-through  traffic  between  Mission  and 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  a  high-collision  location  at  the  intersection  of  Cortland/ 
Mission,  and  congestion  at  the  intersections  with  Andover  Street  and  Mission  Street.  To 
address  these  issues,  the  study  recommended  the  installation  of  center  islands,  new 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.115 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

crosswalks,  high-visibility  crosswalks,  curb  bulb-outs  and  textured  intersections  along  the 
street.  At  the  intersection  of  Crescent/Putnam/Alemany/U.S.  101  southbound  ramps,  the 
study  proposed  installation  of  a  traffic  island  and  marking  and  signing  crosswalks  to  improve 
pedestrian  conditions.  These  street  improvements  would  reduce  the  effect  of  traffic  on 
pedestrians  and  bicyclists,  and  reduce  travel  speeds  and  cut-through  traffic  on  local  streets, 
but  would  not  be  significant  enough  to  cause  a  substantial  amount  of  traffic  to  divert  to  other 
streets.  The  improvements  identified  in  the  study  are  being  implemented  by  DPT  over  the 
next  couple  of  years.  It  should  be  noted  that  no  improvements  were  proposed  for  the 
intersections  of  Mission/Cortland  and  Bayshore/Cortland. 

The  study  found  that  while  Cortland  Avenue  did  have  localized  traffic  congestion,  the  traffic 
volumes  were  generally  not  excessive  on  streets  within  the  South  Bernal  Heights  area,  and 
much  of  the  traffic  is  locally  generated.  The  study  evaluated  collision  data  in  the  South 
Bernal  Heights  area  for  a  four- year  period  between  1995  and  1999,  and  identified 
intersections  along  Alemany  Boulevard,  Mission  Street  and  Patton  Street  as  collision 
hotspots.  No  intersections  along  Cortland  Avenue  between  Mission  Street  and  Bayshore 
Boulevard  were  identified  as  collision  hotspots  in  the  Study.  Only  one  intersection  on 
Cortland  Avenue  was  identified  as  among  the  ten  intersections  in  the  area  with  the  most 
reported  collisions  (total  of  23  collisions  at  Cortland/Mission  during  the  four  year  period). 
Of  the  ten  intersections  within  the  South  Bernal  Heights  area  with  the  most  pedestrian 
collisions,  there  were  four  locations  on  Cortland  Avenue:  Cortland/Mission  (with  eight 
pedestrian  collisions),  Cortland/Ellsworth  (with  three  pedestrian  collisions),  Cortland/ 
Bradford  (with  two  pedestrian  collisions)  and  Cortland/ Andover  (with  two  pedestrian 
collisions).  Two  of  the  analysis  study  intersections  were  included  in  the  list  of  the  top  ten 
collision  locations  in  the  area:  Cortland/Mission  (23  collisions)  and  Crescent/Putnam/ 
Alemany  (54  collisions).  Review  of  the  most-recent  five-year  accident  data  for  these 
intersections  indicates  that  the  number  of  accidents  has  decreased.  Between  1998  and  2003, 
the  number  of  accidents  at  the  intersection  of  Crescent/Putnam/Alemany  was  21  (none  of 
which  involved  pedestrians  or  bicyclists),  and  the  number  of  accidents  at  the  intersection  of 
Cortland/Mission  was  1 1  (of  which  one  involved  a  pedestrian  and  two  involved  bicyclists). 

The  DEIR  acknowledges  that  Cortland  Avenue  provides  a  connection  between  Mission 
Street  and  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  that  some  project-generated  trips  would  use  the  street. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.116 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


However,  the  project  would  not  add  a  significant  amount  of  traffic  to  Cortland  Avenue  - 
about  106  vehicles  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  159  vehicles  during  the  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour.  Since  traffic  volumes  on  the  street  are  relatively  low  (about  750  vehicles 
during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  700  vehicles  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour), 
the  increase  in  traffic  volumes  due  to  the  project  would  not  substantially  worsen  the  operating 
conditions  of  the  intersections  along  the  street  (as  indicated  on  page  49  of  the  DEIR).  As  a 
result,  the  project  would  not  invalidate  the  results  of  the  Traffic  Calming  Study. 
Implementation  of  the  measures  included  in  the  Study  may  serve  to  discourage  project- 
generated  trips  from  using  Cortland  Avenue,  and  instead  to  use  the  major  streets,  such  as 
Cesar  Chavez  Street,  to  access  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

Recently,  enhancements  to  the  pedestrian  conditions  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/ 
Cortland  have  been  implemented,  such  as  new  pedestrian  signals  with  countdown  indicators 
(WALK/DON'T  WALK  indicators  that  present  the  time  remaining  to  cross  the  street).  In 
addition,  as  part  of  the  project,  the  amount  of  pedestrian  crossing  time  at  the  intersection  of 
Bayshore/Cortland  would  be  increased  with  the  proposed  signal  timing  plan  for  the 
intersection.  DPT  has  conducted  an  initial  assessment  of  the  appropriateness  of  installing 
new  sidewalk  bulb-outs  at  the  corners  of  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland,  and  has 
determined  that  a  bulb-out  would  not  be  feasible  at  the  northwest  corner  and  that  additional 
study  would  be  required  to  determine  the  appropriateness  of  bulb-outs  at  all  other  corners.22 


Traffic  Analysis 

General 

Comment  #55 

"Page  56  [of  the  DEIR:]  Please  explain  how  traffic  loops  around  on  Bayshore  and  Hilton  to  Cortland 
and  how  that  loop  serves  both  the  Floorcraft  Garden  Center,  other  businesses,  and  the  Muni.  How 
will  service  on  that  loop  be  impeded  by  backed  up  traffic  on  Cortland?"  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at 
Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 


Letter  from  Bond  Yee,  Director  of  the  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  to  Tim  Erney,  Wilbur  Smith 
Associates,  September  7,  2004.  This  letter  is  on  file  and  available  by  appointment  for  public  review  at  the  San 
Francisco  Planning  Department,  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E!. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.117 


July  28, 2005 


vn.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Response  #55 

Currently,  vehicles  are  able  to  turn  right  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  (south  of 
Cortland  Avenue)  to  Hilton  Street  as  a  way  to  return  to  Cortland  Avenue.  Hilton  Street  is 
located  about  150  feet  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  is  a  one-way  northbound  street  and 
provides  access  to  the  back-of-house  functions  for  the  Floorcraft  Garden  Center  at  550 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  therefore  has  extremely  low  traffic  volumes.  In  addition,  the  Muni 
24-Divisadero  eastbound  route  is  sometimes  truncated  at  Hilton  Street  (instead  of  continuing 
to  Third  Street),  including  during  its  owl  runs  (1:00  a.m.  to  5:00  a.m.  service). 

Vehicles  exiting  Hilton  Street  are  required  to  turn  left  or  right  onto  Cortland  Avenue. 
Increased  queues  on  Cortland  Avenue  that  may  result  from  the  project  would  somewhat 
increase  delays  for  vehicles  exiting  Hilton  Street,  primarily  for  those  vehicles  destined  to 
westbound  Cortland  Avenue  because  drivers  would  be  attempting  to  make  left  turns  through 
both  directions  of  traffic.  In  addition,  there  is  the  potential  for  eastbound  queues  to  block  the 
Hilton  Street  intersection  with  Cortland  Avenue,  which  would  somewhat  increase  delays  for 
vehicles  exiting  Hilton  Street.  Under  existing  conditions,  queues  on  eastbound  Cortland 
Avenue  often  extend  past  Hilton  Street.  During  field  observations  conducted  in  October 
2003,  vehicles  exiting  Hilton  Street  and  turning  left  onto  westbound  Cortland  Avenue  did  not 
have  substantial  difficulty  in  exiting  Hilton  Street  when  eastbound  queues  extended  past 
Hilton  Street,  because  sufficient  gaps  were  available  in  eastbound  Cortland  Avenue  traffic. 
Although  with  the  project  the  traffic  volumes  would  increase  and  queues  would  lengthen  on 
eastbound  Cortland  Avenue,  similar  gaps  would  be  available  for  vehicles  exiting  Hilton 
Street.  As  such,  the  increase  in  traffic  volumes  on  Cortland  Avenue  is  not  anticipated  to 
substantially  affect  Hilton  Street  traffic.  Since  Hilton  Street  only  serves  the  Floorcraft 
Garden  Center  back-of-house  operations,  minor  traffic  volumes,  and  occasional  Muni  buses 
(most  of  which  are  turning  left  onto  Cortland  Avenue  westbound),  any  circulation  issues  due 
to  the  project  would  be  relatively  minor. 

Comment  #56 

"Intersection  Capacity  Impacts.  The  signalized  intersections  capacity  results  at  Industrial,  Cortland, 
Oakdale,  and  Silver  are  all  extremely  close  to  exceeding  the  City  standards.  Even  a  very  small 
increase  in  traffic  would  trigger  the  LOS  E  intersection  standards  used  in  San  Francisco. 
Considering  the  many  problems  with  the  trip  generation  and  distribution  assumptions,  it  is  clear  that 
a  more  thorough  analysis  is  needed,  presenting  more  details  and  including  additional  mitigations  that 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.118 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

will  assure  that  LOS  D  (less  than  40  seconds  of  delay  per  vehicle)  will  be  maintained.  This  is  needed 
before  the  traffic  study  can  be  considered  'sufficient  evidence'  to  conclude  that  the  proposed 
mitigations  would  'clearly  mitigate  the  effects'  at  the  study  intersections."  (Charles  M.  Abrams, 
President,  Abrams  Associates) 

Response  #56 

See  Response  to  Comment  #41  regarding  the  trip  generation  assumptions,  and  Response  to 
Comment  #44  regarding  the  trip  distribution  assumptions. 

Most  of  the  signalized  intersections  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  have  actuated  signal  control, 
including  the  study  intersections  of  Bayshore/Oakdale,  Bayshore/Cortland  and 
Bay  shore/Industrial.  Actuated  signal  control  means  that  the  amount  of  green  time  for  each 
approach  is  not  fixed,  but  varies  by  signal  cycle  based  on  each  approach's  traffic  volumes. 
As  a  result,  the  intersections  can  accommodate  substantial  increases  in  traffic  volumes 
without  worsening  the  overall  intersection  level  of  service. 

In  San  Francisco,  a  signalized  intersection  is  considered  to  operate  with  unacceptable 
conditions  at  LOS  E  or  F  (an  average  delay  of  more  than  40  seconds  per  vehicle).  An 
intersection  that  operates  at  LOS  D  would  not  be  considered  to  operate  with  unacceptable 
conditions,  even  if  the  average  delay  approached  40  seconds  per  vehicle.  Therefore,  at  these 
study  intersections  the  project  was  determined  to  not  have  any  traffic-related  impacts  and 
would  not  be  required  to  implement  additional  mitigation  measures.  However,  it  should  be 
noted  that  an  improvement  measure  was  recommended  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Silver 
to  improve  future  operating  conditions.  Although  the  project  would  not  make  a  significant 
contribution  to  the  future  operating  conditions  and  the  project  sponsor  would  not  be  required 
to  contribute  to  the  implementation  of  the  improvement  measure,  the  project  sponsor  has 
volunteered  to  pay  for  it.  See  Response  to  Comment  #143  regarding  project  sponsor  funding 
of  mitigation  and  improvement  measures. 

Comment  #57 

"There  was  no  mention  of  the  fact  that  trucks  will  be  diverted  to  Bayshore  during  the  construction  of 
the  rail  line  on  Third  Avenue.  This  is  sure  to  exacerbate  the  traffic  situation."  (Nic  Griffin,  Resident) 


2001. 0062  E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.119 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Response  #57 

Construction  activities  on  Third  Street  have  been  ongoing  for  the  new  Third  Street  light  rail 
line.  Light  rail  service  is  planned  to  begin  in  2005,  likely  before  the  project  is  scheduled  to 
open.  During  construction  of  the  light  rail  project,  two  traffic  lanes  in  both  the  northbound 
and  southbound  direction  are  continually  provided  on  Third  Street.  As  a  result,  it  is  not 
anticipated  that  a  substantial  volume  of  truck  traffic  will  divert  to  Bayshore  Boulevard  as  a 
result  of  construction.  If  any  trucks  were  diverted,  however,  their  effects  would  only  be 
temporary  and  would  not  result  in  any  substantial  changes  to  the  documented  intersection 
operating  conditions. 

Comment  #58 

"Summary/Transportation,  Page  4:  DEIR  indicates  the  proposed  project  would  generate  848  vehicle 
trips  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  and  1,268  vehicle  trips  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak.  Then, 
on  page  5,  it  indicates  that  the  additional  vehicle  trips  would  not  change  the  operating  conditions  at 
the  intersections  studied.  It  states  that  all  analyzed  freeway  on-ramps  would  continue  to  operate  at 
the  same  levels  of  service  as  under  existing  conditions.  Further,  the  second  paragraph  of  page  5 
states  the  increase  in  vehicles  destined  to  and  from  the  proposed  project  would  result  in  a  moderate 
increase  in  delay  at  individual  movements  at  several  study  interjections.  Vehicles  making  these 
movements  may  experience  somewhat  higher  delays.  These  statements  seem  to  contradict  each  other 
and  require  further  explanation."  (Shelley  Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President) 

Response  #58 

The  vehicle-trips  generated  by  the  project  were  assigned  to  the  local  and  regional  roadway 
network,  based  on  the  origin/destination  of  each  trip.  As  a  result,  these  vehicles  would  be 
distributed  throughout  the  area,  and  not  travel  through  only  one  of  the  study  intersections  or 
one  of  the  study  on-ramps.  In  addition,  there  would  be  project  driveways  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard  (inbound/outbound  and  outbound-only),  Loomis  Street  (inbound/outbound)  and 
Waterloo  Street  (inbound/outbound),  which  would  result  in  the  dispersion  of  inbound  and 
outbound  traffic  flows  to  various  streets. 

The  methodology  used  to  determine  operating  conditions  at  signalized  intersections  is  based 
on  the  average  delay  per  vehicle  for  all  allowable  traffic  movements  at  the  intersection.  The 
levels  of  service  (LOS  A  through  F)  are  associated  with  a  range  of  delays  per  vehicle.  For 
example,  an  intersection  with  an  average  delay  of  25  to  40  seconds  per  vehicle  would  operate 
at  LOS  D. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.120 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


However,  although  the  average  delay  at  an  intersection  may  indicate  acceptable  operating 
conditions,  it  is  possible  that  individual  movements  within  an  intersection  may  have 
somewhat  higher  delays  than  average  (for  instance,  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/ 
Industrial  under  Existing  plus  Project  conditions  would  operate  at  LOS  D  during  the  weekday 
PM  peak  hour,  but  the  eastbound  left-turn  movement  would  operate  at  LOS  E).  As  such, 
vehicles  making  the  eastbound  left-turn  movement  may  experience  higher  delays  than  the 
rest  of  the  vehicles  at  the  intersection.  However,  the  increase  in  delays  at  these  individual 
movements  would  not  result  in  the  intersections  operating  at  unacceptable  service  levels  or 
significant  traffic  impacts;  they  were  noted  in  the  DEIR  on  page  62  as  supplemental 
information  on  intersection  operations. 

Comment  #59 

"These  traffic  and  congestion  impacts  are  not  acceptable  to  the  neighborhood  or  in  keeping  with  the 
City  policy  of  maintaining  and  strengthening  neighborhoods  and  pedestrian-oriented,  walkable, 
livable  spaces."  (Amy  D.  Kyle,  Ph.D.,  M.P.H.,  Resident) 

Response  #59 

As  presented  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  61  through  75,  the  project  was  determined  to  not  result  in 
any  significant  traffic  impacts  under  the  Existing  plus  Project  scenario,  in  terms  of  freeway 
mainline  and  on-ramps,  intersections,  transit,  pedestrians,  bicyclists  and  parking  conditions. 
It  is  anticipated  that  most  vehicles  destined  to  and  from  the  project  (about  72  percent  of  total 
traffic  generated  by  the  project)  would  use  Bayshore  Boulevard,  which  is  classified  as  a 
Major  Arterial  in  the  San  Francisco  General  Plan. 

Comment  #60 

"The  DEIR  does  not  adequately  address  the  traffic  impacts  created  by  the  building  design.  It  also 
does  not  adequately  address  and  discuss  the  improvement  conditions  necessary  to  address  the 
impacts  on  traffic  flow.  The  only  improvement  conditions  that  seem  to  be  addressed  are  the  Cortland 
Street  pedestrian  walkways  and  signals.  Additional  consideration  should  be  given  to  other 
intersections  as  a  result  of  the  design."  (Shelley  Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President) 

Response  #60 

The  traffic  impact  analysis  conducted  for  the  DEIR  incorporated  the  site  access  plan  designed 
and  proposed  by  the  project  sponsor.  As  part  of  the  project  design  effort,  a  number  of 
improvements  at  adjacent  intersections  were  included  into  the  project.  For  instance,  as 
described  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  62  through  65  and  presented  in  Figure  12  on  page  63  of  the 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.121 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

DEIR,  several  alterations  would  be  implemented  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  to 
maintain  and  enhance  vehicular  circulation.  To  accommodate  vehicles  destined  to  the  project 
site  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard,  a  southbound  left-turn  pocket  would  be  created 
(within  the  current  center  two-way  left-turn  lane)  and  a  protected  left-turn  phase  would  be 
established  within  the  signal  timing  plan.  Since  the  elimination  of  a  portion  of  the  center  left- 
turn  lane  would  affect  vehicular  access  from  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the 
commercial  establishment  at  470  Bayshore  Boulevard,  a  northbound  U-turn  pocket  would  be 
created.  In  addition,  to  account  for  changes  to  the  signal  timing,  the  northbound  left-turn 
pocket  would  be  extended  by  at  least  70  feet  (to  a  total  distance  of  at  least  210  feet).  Other 
potential  changes  to  the  Cortland  Avenue  approach  to  Bayshore  Boulevard  have  been 
proposed,  including  restriping  the  street  to  provide  two  eastbound  lanes.  These 
improvements  would  facilitate  access  to  and  from  the  project  site  and  minimize  the  effects  to 
traffic  flow. 

The  project  would  not  result  in  substantial  changes  to  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  or  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour  operating  conditions  at  the  other  study  intersections.  As  a  result, 
additional  mitigation  and  improvement  measures  would  not  be  required.  In  addition,  the 
project  would  not  result  in  impacts  to  traffic  flow  on  the  adjacent  streets  (if  the  project- 
related  measures  were  implemented). 

As  indicated  in  the  DEIR  on  page  79,  other  measures  have  been  developed  to  improve  the 
future  2015  Cumulative  traffic  conditions  at  the  study  intersections  of  Mission/Cortland  and 
Bayshore/Silver.  At  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland,  DPT  has  indicated  that  it  would  be 
possible  to  modify  the  existing  signal  at  the  intersection  to  accommodate  the  new  phase. 
DPT  has  also  requested  that  the  project  sponsor  pay  for  the  full  cost  of  this  signal  upgrade, 
and  the  project  sponsor  has  agreed  to  do  so23. 

On  pages  12  and  106,  the  end  of  the  first  paragraph  is  revised  to  indicate  that  the 
project  sponsor  would  pay  for  mitigation:  "With  this  mitigation  improvement 
measure,  the  intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  C  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour 


Letter  from  Bond  Yee,  Director  of  the  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  to  Tim  Erney,  Wilbur  Smith  Associates, 
September  7,  2004,  op  cit. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.122 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

and  LOS  D  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  The  project  sponsor  would  pay 
for  the  costs  of  this  measure. 

At  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Silver,  the  proposed  changes  to  the  intersection  signalization 
plan  would  need  to  be  made  by  DPT,  and  the  project  would  not  be  responsible  for 
contributing  to  the  funding  for  this  improvement  (the  project  was  not  considered  to  have  a 
significant  contribution  to  the  future  intersection  operations).  However,  the  project  sponsor 
has  volunteered  to  fund  this  improvement  measure.  Please  see  Response  to  Comment  #63 
for  changes  to  the  DEIR  text. 

Comment  #6 1 

"The  DEIR  does  not  adequately  address  traffic  impacts  to  major  Bayview  Hunters  Point  streets. 
BVHP  has  the  largest  number  of  homeowners  in  the  City.  Those  who  choose  to  patronize  Home 
Depot  will  drive  to  the  store.  Roads  such  as  3rd,  Oakdale,  Palou,  Silver,  and  Paul  will  be  heavily 
used  to  reach  Bayshore  and  access  the  project,  and  should  be  more  adequately  addressed  in  the 
Traffic  Study."  (Shelley  Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President) 

Response  #6 1 

Based  on  the  market  share  analysis  conducted  for  Home  Depot  by  an  independent  market 
research  firm  (see  Response  to  Comment  #44),  it  was  estimated  that  about  8.2  percent  of  the 
potential  customers  of  the  project  would  reside  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  neighborhood. 
The  vehicle-trips  associated  with  these  patrons  (approximately  70  vehicle  trips  during  the 
weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  104  vehicle  trips  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour)  were 
assigned  to  the  various  east/west  streets  (Paul  Avenue,  Silver  Avenue,  Industrial  Street, 
Oakdale  Avenue,  and  Cesar  Chavez  Street)  to  access  the  project  at  Bayshore  Boulevard  and 
Loomis  Street.  These  vehicle  trips  from  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  neighborhood  account 
for  a  portion  of  the  15  percent  of  total  trips  during  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday 
peak  hours  that  would  use  the  driveway  to  the  project  located  on  Loomis  Street.  Since 
Bayview  Hunters  Point  residents  could  use  several  different  routes  to  access  these  east/west 
streets,  the  analysis  intersections  were  focused  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Loomis  Street, 
through  which  all  vehicles  would  have  to  travel.  The  effects  of  project-related  traffic  would 
be  reduced  the  further  the  distance  from  the  project  site,  since  traffic  would  disperse  over  the 
various  streets. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.123 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Comment  #62 

"This  Saturday  Peak  Hour  Coincides  with  the  Alemany  Farmer's  Market  activity,  further 
exacerbating  the  already  congested  conditions  in  that  vicinity.  The  DEIR  does  not  address  whether 
project  traffic  will  have  any  negative  impact  on  the  Farmer's  Market."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology 
Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights 
Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

"The  Alemany-Putnam-Crescent  intersection  by  the  farmers  market  does  not  have  proper  stop  signs. 
Traffic  on  the  weekend  is  very  bad  when  the  farmers  market  (or  flea  market)  is  open.  A  Home  Depot 
would  increase  this  traffic  and  create  a  large  bottleneck  that  is  not  adequately  addressed  in  the 
report."  (Amy  C.  Miller  and  Virginia  Bowen,  Residents) 

Response  #62 

The  transportation  analysis  conducted  for  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  accounted  for  the 
Alemany  Farmer's  Market.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  actual  analysis  hour  (12:00  p.m.  to 
1 :00  p.m.)  was  specifically  selected  to  overlap  with  the  peak  period  of  activity  of  the  adjacent 
roadway  network,  the  Farmer's  Market,  and  typical  Home  Depot  operations.  In  addition,  the 
study  intersection  of  Alemany/Putnam/U.S.  101  southbound  off-ramp  was  selected  due  to  its 
proximity  to  the  Farmer's  Market. 

During  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  the  intersection  of  Alemany/Putnam/U.S.  101 
southbound  off-ramp  was  determined  to  operate  acceptably  with  the  project.  Although  the 
project  would  add  traffic  through  this  intersection,  it  would  be  primarily  on  Alemany 
Boulevard  (which  has  capacity  to  accommodate  additional  vehicles).  The  project  is  not 
anticipated  to  add  traffic  to  Putnam  Street  or  Crescent  Avenue,  the  primary  streets  that  serve 
the  Farmer's  Market. 


Comment  #63 

"I  think  that  this  Home  Depot  proposal  is  huge,  and  will  have  a  big  negative  impact  on  Bernal 
Heights  and  the  surrounding  area,  including  the  traffic  on  the  entrances  and  exits  off  of  the  freeways 
on  either  side  of  the  proposed  project,  and  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Cortland  -  which  I  think 
people  who  have  spoken  about  people  not  using  Cortland  Avenue  as  an  avenue  -  as  a  means  of 
getting  to  Home  Depot  -  is  completely  wrong.  The  Home  Depot  is  proposing  a  giant  project;  they 
are  expecting  to  have  a  lot  of  business.  And  they  are  out  building  a  three-story  parking  structure  at 
the  end  of  Cortland  Street,  not  expecting  people  to  come  through  there?  So  I  think  that  we're  going 
to  have  a  big  problem  impact.  One  thing  I  would  like  to  address  also,  and  hasn't  been  spoken  to,  is  I 
don't  believe  the  DEIR  adequately  addresses  the  impact  that  traffic  will  have  on  the  side  streets  of 
Bernal  Heights,  which  are  very  narrow.  And  at  present  one  car  at  a  time  can  pass  through  a  lot  of  the 
side  streets  on  either  side  of  Cortland,  and  as  of  now,  we  have  to  do  a  choreographed  dance,  and 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.124 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

politely  allow  another  person  to  pass,  because  two  cars  at  a  time  can't  go  down  those  streets.  And  so 
I'm  expecting  that  if  traffic  increases  on  Cortland,  that  the  side  streets  will  become  even  more 
congested  -  which  they  really  cannot  handle  any  more  cars."  (Rosanne  Liggett,  Resident) 

"Spillover  to  Side  Streets.  Traffic  backups  at  Cortland  and  Bayshore  will  cause  eastbound  traffic  to 
use  residential  side  streets.  The  DEIR  states,  'To  avoid  the  queues  and  the  associated  delays  at  the 
Bayshore/Cortland  intersection,  drivers  may  divert  to  other  routes,  such  as  Putnam  Street.'1  We  are 
certain  this  will  happen,  since  it  already  happens  during  the  busy  Saturday  Farmers  Market  time. 
The  proposed  improvement  here  is  to  add  an  additional  right-turn  lane  from  Cortland  to  Bayshore. 
But  there  are  already  two  lanes  of  traffic  there,  even  if  there  isn't  a  clear  white  strip  dividing  them. 
This  is  a  non-solution  to  this  situation.  The  DEIR  makes  it  sound  like  there  is  very  often  a  Muni  bus 
there,  eliminating  the  second  right-turn  lane.  We  wish  the  service  was  indeed  that  frequent,  but  there 
is  rarely  a  bus  there,  and  if  so,  only  briefly."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle, 
Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 
Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  DEIR,  page  68. 
Response  #63 

The  side  streets  that  intersect  with  Cortland  Avenue  are  typically  narrow  with  significant 
grade  changes.  In  addition,  these  streets  primarily  serve  the  local  Bernal  Heights  residential 
neighborhood  and  do  not  provide  a  direct  connection  to  major  north/south  or  east/west 
thoroughfares.  As  a  result,  increases  in  traffic  on  these  side  streets  would  likely  only  come 
from  Bernal  Heights  residents  who  are  traveling  to  and  from  the  project.  The  transportation 
analysis  does  assume  that  a  portion  of  the  project's  customers  would  use  Cortland  Avenue 
between  Mission  Street  and  Bayshore  Boulevard  (about  13  percent  of  the  total  customers). 

At  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland,  the  eastbound  approach  is  40  feet  wide,  with  one 
travel  lane  in  each  direction  and  on-street  parking  and  bus  stops  on  both  sides  of  the  street. 
At  the  approach,  there  is  a  120-foot-long  bus  stop  for  the  Muni  24-Divisadero  bus  line  (with 
8-  to  10-minute  headways  on  weekdays  and  15-  to  20-minute  headways  on  weekends). 
When  buses  are  not  stopped  at  the  bus  stop,  the  eastbound  traffic  flow  usually  operates  as 
two  lanes  (vehicles  turn  left  from  the  regular  travel  lane  and  turn  right  from  the  bus  stop). 
When  buses  are  stopped,  however,  they  reduce  the  capacity  of  the  approach  to  one  travel  lane 
(in  addition,  buses  occasionally  block  the  remaining  travel  lane  by  not  pulling  entirely  into 
the  bus  stop).  This  results  in  queuing  and  vehicles  encroaching  into  the  westbound  approach 
to  maneuver  around  the  stopped  bus. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.125 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

To  improve  operations  at  the  eastbound  Cortland  Avenue  approach,  an  improvement  measure 
was  proposed  (as  discussed  on  pages  65  and  110  of  the  DEIR).  With  the  measure,  the 
centerline  between  eastbound  and  westbound  directions  would  be  restriped  to  provide 
additional  width  in  the  eastbound  direction,  to  allow  for  two  travel  lanes  at  the  intersections. 
However,  DPT  has  determined  that  this  improvement  measure  is  not  desirable  due  to 
potential  impacts  on  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  right-turning  traffic.  As  a  result,  this 
improvement  measure  would  not  be  implemented  and  the  proposed  project  would  not  change 
the  configuration  of  Cortland  Avenue.24 

On  pages  16  and  110  in  the  DEIR,  the  first  transportation  improvement  measure  is 
deleted  (please  see  Response  to  Comment  #141  for  discussion),  and  the  second 
sentence  of  the  paragraph  before  the  transportation  improvement  measure  is  revised 
to  read:  "Improvement  measures  diminish  effects  of  the  project  that  were  found 
through  environmental  analysis  to  be  less-than-significant  impacts.  These  The 
following  measure  would  be  implemented  by  the  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic 
and  the  cost  of  the  first  measure  would  be  borne  by  the  project  sponsor." 

Comment  #64 

"Impacts  of  Traffic  Are  Under-represented  and  Unacceptable.  According  to  the  Transportation 
Study,  the  Home  Depot  project  would  generate  up  to  848  additional  vehicle  trips  per  hour  during  the 
weekday  peak  hours,  and  an  additional  1,268  vehicle  trips  during  the  Saturday  peak  hour. 

"Level  of  Service  Degradations  for  Intersections  Unacceptable.  Similarly,  many  of  the  intersections 
studied  will  degrade  to  LOS  D  or  E  if  this  project  is  built.  The  City  considers  LOS  E  and  F  as 
'unacceptable.'  Because  Bernal  Heights'  geography  limits  our  east/west  access  routes  in  and  out  of 
the  neighborhood  basically  to  either  Cortland  Avenue  or  Crescent  Avenue,  we  consider  LOS  D  as 
unacceptable.  We  do  not  really  have  the  choice  of  going  another  way  when  one  of  these  key 
intersections  is  congested. 

"The  chart  below  [Refer  to  Appendix  E  of  this  document,  Eve  Bach,  Barbara  Kyle,  and  Ron  Morgan 
Letter  dated  July  24,  2003,  Traffic  Ratings  at  Intersections  and  Freeway  Ramps]  shows  the  projected 
levels  of  our  intersections  and  on-ramps  for  the  three  projected  periods,  according  to  the 
Transportation  Study.  To  allow  so  many  key  intersections  to  degrade  LOS  D,  E,  or  F  is  an 
unacceptable  result  of  this  project,  since  it  would  substantially  change  the  quality  of  life  and 
pedestrian  nature  of  the  neighborhood. 


Letter  from  Bond  Yee,  Director  of  the  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  to  Tim  Erney,  Wilbur  Smith  Associates, 
September  7,  2004,  op  cit. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.126 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

"The  chart  below  [Refer  to  Appendix  E  of  this  document,  Eve  Bach,  Barbara  Kyle,  and  Ron  Morgan 
Letter  dated  July  24,  2003,  Traffic  Ratings  at  Intersections  and  Freeway  Ramps]  also  brings  to  light 
how  some  of  the  LOS  data  in  the  transportation  masks  the  true  nature  of  the  traffic  impacts.  The 
charts  on  Level  of  Service  in  the  Transportation  Study  show  averages  for  each  intersection,  which  is 
misleading  for  some  key  intersections.  For  instance,  the  'Existing  Plus  Project'  LOS  for  Cortland  and 
Bayshore  is  portrayed  as  D,  which  would  be  considered  acceptable  to  the  City  (although  not  to  us). 
What  the  DEIR  does  not  mention  is  that  this  LOS  D  is  an  average  for  the  intersection,  and  that  the 
eastbound  direction  of  Cortland  at  Bayshore  degrades  to  LOS  E  during  both  the  weekend  and 
evening  peak  hours.1  Similarly,  by  providing  an  average  LOS  for  the  intersection  of  Bayshore  and 
Industrial,  the  DEIR  overlooks  the  projection  that  'both  the  eastbound  left-turn  movement  and  the 
southbound  through  movement  would  operate  at  LOS  E.'2 

"Yet,  this  is  a  crucial  traffic  patterns  for  cars  coming  off  the  freeway  to  reach  the  project  location." 
(Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron 
Morgan,     Bernal    Heights    Neighborhood    Center    Community     Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  Transportation  Study,  page  4-7. 
Transportation  Study,  page  4-7. 

"I  disagree  with  the  finding  in  the  DEIR  that  776  trips  during  a  weekday  or  1,100  added  trips  on  a 
Saturday  would  not  be  significant.  They  are  saying  that  would  not  be  a  significant  impact,  and  I 
disagree  with  that.  There's  been  a  lot  of  talk  about  people  are  projecting  there  will  be  additional 
traffic  on  Cortland.  But  living  in  Bernal,  the  only  way  to  get  out  of  that  neighborhood  to  the  rest  of 
the  city  is  either  on  Mission  or  Bayshore.  And  I  think  what  a  new  Home  Depot  would  do  is  block  up 
Bayshore,  and  that's  what  would  make  Cortland  back  up,  because  everyone  trying  to  get  to  work 
from  Bernal  area  would  be  backing  up  -  which  to  me  feels  very  -  almost  a  dangerous  situation, 
where  people  in  a  neighborhood  cannot  actually  exit  their  neighborhood  to  get  to  work."  (Gretchen 
Mokry,  Resident) 

Response  #64 

The  operating  conditions  of  intersections  are  described  by  level  of  service.  LOS  is  a 
qualitative  description  of  an  intersection's  performance,  based  on  the  average  delay  per 
vehicle.  LOS  ranges  from  LOS  A,  which  indicates  free-flow  or  excellent  conditions  with 
short  delays,  to  LOS  F,  which  indicates  congested  or  overloaded  conditions  with  extremely 
long  delays.  The  San  Francisco  Planning  Department's  significance  criteria  state  that 
signalized  intersections  throughout  the  City,  whether  in  residential  neighborhoods  or 
otherwise,  are  considered  to  operate  unacceptably  if,  based  on  average  delay  at  the 
intersection,  they  were  to  operate  at  LOS  E  or  F. 

The  study  intersections  were  analyzed  using  the  Highway  Capacity  Manual  operations 
methodology  as  described  on  page  48  of  the  DEIR,  which  is  the  approved  methodology  for 
the  analysis  of  intersections,  per  the  San  Francisco  Transportation  Guidelines.  The 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.127 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

methodology  determines  the  capacity  for  each  lane  group  approaching  the  intersection,  and 
the  LOS  is  based  on  the  delay  for  the  various  movements  with  the  intersection.  A  combined 
weighted  average  delay  and  LOS  are  presented  for  each  intersection.  Although  operations  of 
individual  movements  may  be  highlighted  in  a  discussion  of  transportation  conditions, 
intersection  operating  conditions  are  based  on  the  entire  intersection,  not  just  one  approach. 

Based  on  the  traffic  analysis  (DEIR  pages  61  through  62),  all  study  intersections  would  be 
able  to  accommodate  the  new  vehicle-trips  that  would  be  generated  by  the  project,  and  the 
Existing  plus  Project  levels  of  service  would  remain  acceptable  (LOS  D  or  better)  during  the 
weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  Therefore,  the  project  would 
not  result  in  any  significant  traffic  impacts.  However,  as  indicated  in  the  DEIR,  some 
movements  within  the  study  intersections  may  experience  somewhat  higher  delays  and  worse 
operating  conditions  than  reported  for  the  intersection  as  a  whole. 

In  addition,  DEIR  pages  75  through  81  presents  the  results  of  the  2015  Cumulative 
conditions,  which  accounts  for  traffic  growth  from  other  developments  in  the  area,  as  well  as 
the  project.  Under  2015  Cumulative  conditions,  all  study  intersections  would  continue  to 
operate  acceptably  during  both  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hours,  except  the 
intersection  of  Mission/Cortland.  At  this  intersection,  the  LOS  F  operating  conditions  can  be 
mitigated  by  upgrading  the  traffic  signal  to  create  a  new  southbound  left-turn  phase. 
According  to  DPT,  it  would  be  possible  to  modify  the  existing  signal  at  the  intersection  to 
accommodate  the  new  phase.  DPT  has  also  requested  that  the  project  sponsor  pay  for  the  full 
cost  of  this  signal  upgrade,  and  the  project  sponsor  has  agreed  to  do  so.25  Please  see 
Response  to  Comment  #63  for  changes  to  the  DEIR  text. 

Under  2015  Cumulative  conditions,  all  five  of  the  study  on-ramps  would  operate  at  LOS  F 
during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  and  two  of  the  on-ramps  would  operate  at  LOS  F  during 
the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (under  existing  conditions,  one  on-ramp  operates  at  LOS  F 
during  each  time  period).  It  was  determined  that  the  project  would  have  a  significant 
contribution  to  the  poor  operating  conditions  at  all  study  freeway  on-ramps  that  operate  at 
LOS  F.  However,  the  operating  conditions  are  primarily  dictated  by  the  freeway  mainline 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.128 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

traffic  volumes,  and  not  the  on-ramp  volumes.  Therefore,  additional  freeway  mainline 
capacity  would  be  needed  on  U.S.  101  and  1-280  to  alleviate  the  poor  operating  conditions. 
As  a  result,  the  project's  significant  contribution  to  the  on-ramp  conditions  would  be 
considered  a  significant  unavoidable  impact  and  is  stated  as  such  in  the  DEIR. 

Comment  #65 

"Traffic  Report.  I  believe  that  the  traffic  report  does  not  include  all  of  the  traffic  impacts  and  is 
unacceptable.  Crescent  Avenue  was  not  considered  a  main  east-to-west  corridor  between  Mission 
and  Bayshore.  Crescent  Avenue  is  used  by  many  cars  and  buses  (Muni  23  and  67).  I  live  on 
Crescent  Street  and  see  the  traffic  daily.  People  from  the  Sunset,  Glen  Park,  Forest  Hill,  and  other 
western  neighborhoods  are  likely  to  cut  across  the  city  using  O'Shaughnessy  to  Bosworth  to  Crescent 
to  get  to  the  proposed  Home  Depot. 

"People  will  not  use  Putnam  Street  when  Cortland  is  clogged.  My  experience  indicates  that  people 
will  avoid  Cortland  and  use  Crescent  because  it  is  fast  and  only  has  three  stop  signs  between  Mission 
and  Alemany."  (Amy  C.  Miller  and  Virginia  Bowen,  Residents) 

Response  #65 

Since  Crescent  Avenue  does  not  directly  connect  with  Bayshore  Boulevard,  drivers  would 
need  to  turn  onto  another  street,  such  as  Putnam  Street  or  Alemany  Boulevard,  to  access  the 
project  site.  As  a  result,  although  some  vehicles  destined  to  and  from  the  project  site  may  use 
Crescent  Avenue,  it  would  not  be  considered  a  major  access  route. 

In  the  DEIR  on  page  68,  it  is  acknowledged  that  some  drivers  may  divert  to  other  routes, 
such  as  Putnam  Street,  to  avoid  the  potential  queues  and  delays  that  may  develop  on  Cortland 
Avenue.  Drivers  could  then  connect  with  Crescent  Avenue. 

On  page  68,  to  clarify  that  some  drivers  may  divert  onto  Crescent  Avenue  to  avoid 
Cortland  Avenue,  the  first  paragraph,  lines  six  and  seven  are  revised:  "To  avoid  the 
queues  and  associated  delays  at  the  Bayshore/Cortland  intersection,  drivers  may 
divert  to  other  routes,  such  as  Putnam  Street  to  Crescent  Avenue." 

Comment  #66 

"I  have  lived  in  Bernal  Heights  for  15  years;  been  a  resident  of  the  city  for  25.  I  am  absolutely 
opposed  to  this  project,  and  I  have  serious  concerns  about  the  draft  EIR.  I  think  it  is  extremely 
inaccurate  in  addressing  the  traffic  concerns  that  will  affect  Bernal  Heights,  particularly  the 
intersection  of  Mission  and  Cortland,  which  is  where  the  24  has  to  turn,  and  also  the  intersection 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.129 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

across  Cortland  where  the  67  crosses  on  Folsom.  So  I  think  it  is  not  only  a  matter  of  affecting  other 
cars  that  are  coming  down  Cortland  Street,  but  also  having  a  serious  and  negative  impact  on  buses 
that  have  to  use  those  routes."  (Amy  Beinart,  Resident) 

Response  #66 

The  intersections  of  Cortland/Mission  and  Cortland/Folsom  were  among  the  14  inter-sections 
analyzed  in  the  DEIR.  Overall,  the  project  was  found  to  not  significantly  impact  traffic 
conditions  at  these  two  intersections  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  the  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour.  Although  there  would  be  an  increase  in  vehicular  delays  along  Cortland 
Avenue,  these  delays  would  not  be  substantial  enough  to  affect  operations  of  the  Muni  bus 
lines. 

To  identify  issues  and  conditions  at  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland,  additional  field 
observations  were  conducted  in  2003  and  2004  during  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday 
peak  periods.  At  the  intersection,  moderate  vehicular  delays  were  observed  in  the 
southbound  direction,  primarily  due  to  vehicles  and  buses  waiting  to  turn  left  on  Cortland 
Avenue,  and  the  Muni  bus  stop  within  the  travel  lane.  However,  due  to  gaps  in  the 
northbound  traffic  flow,  most  vehicles  were  observed  to  be  able  to  make  the  turn  within  one 
signal  cycle.  The  proposed  project  would  not  result  in  any  significant  impacts  at  the 
intersection  of  Mission/Cortland  under  Existing  plus  Project  conditions.  However,  under 
year  2015  Cumulative  conditions,  the  proposed  project  would  have  a  significant  contribution 
to  the  poor  operating  conditions  at  this  intersection.  As  indicated  on  DEIR  page  106,  a 
mitigation  measure  has  been  identified  to  improve  operating  conditions  at  the  intersection  of 
Mission/Cortland  to  acceptable  conditions  (LOS  D  or  better).  DPT  has  indicated  that  it 
would  be  possible  to  modify  the  existing  signal  at  this  intersection  to  accommodate  a  new 
phase.  DPT  has  also  requested  that  the  project  sponsor  pay  for  the  full  cost  of  this  signal 
upgrade,26  and  the  project  sponsor  has  agreed  to  do  so.  Please  see  Response  to  Comment  #63 
for  changes  to  the  DEIR  text. 


26  Ibid. 


200 1.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.130  July  28,2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Cortland  Avenue 

Traffic 
Comment  #67 

"I  think  the  traffic  was  less  on  Cortland  tonight  because  everybody  was  here  testifying  from 
Cortland.  I  appreciate  the  input;  I  think  there  were  a  lot  of  good  things  that  came  out  of  it.  I  think  a 
lot  of  things  do  have  to  be  addressed  before  this  report  is  finalized. 

"I  think  Cortland  is  clearly  a  street  that  is  going  to  need  to  be  addressed.  There  may  have  to  be  other 
ways  that  [it]  would  be  engineered.  It  is  not  my  place  to  bring  up  suggestions  at  this  time,  but  I  think 
that  part  of  the  report  will  have  to  have  some  other  treatments  of  the  end  of  Cortland  coming  into  the 
Home  Depot."  (Michael  Antonini,  Planning  Commissioner) 

"I  am  a  small  business  owner  with  a  location  at  the  foot  of  Cortland  Avenue,  near  the  Home  Depot 
site,  and  I  am  very  concerned  that  the  increased  traffic  will  make  deliveries  to  my  site  so  difficult  that 
my  suppliers  will  not  be  able  to  send  their  trucks."  (Mike  Boss,  Resident) 

"I  live  in  Bernal  Heights  and  use  Cortland  all  the  time.  Traffic  on  Cortland  and  Bayshore  will  be 
horrible  with  a  Home  Depot.  There  should  be  smaller  stores  along  Bayshore,  not  Home  Depot." 
(David  Chatfield,  Resident) 

"Already  traffic  is  a  large  problem  on  Cortland,  which  is  the  only  road  accessing  Bayshore  from 
Mission.  This  neighborhood  will  be  adversely  impacted  by  increased  traffic  noise  and  pollution." 
(Mae  Chesney,  Resident) 

"I  am  concerned  because  Cortland  has  more  traffic  than  ever  at  this  point.  We  are  a  quiet  residential 
neighborhood  and  cannot  handle  any  more  traffic,  pollution,  or  noise.  I  believe  the  Home  Depot 
store  at  the  Bayshore  location  will  erode  the  qualities  that  make  Bernal  a  desirable  neighborhood." 
(Scott  E.  Cunningham,  Resident) 

"Cortland,  being  the  only  substantial  east/west  street,  may  have  its  circulation  affected.  Cars  will 
move  to  other  side  streets.  Cortland  already  becomes  very  slow  at  peak  times.  The  project  will 
exacerbate  this  and  create  difficulty  for  cars  trying  to  enter  Cortland  from  side  streets. 

"Southbound  trucks  turning  from  Bayshore  into  Cortland  will  have  to  cross  the  center  divider  and 
cause  a  hazard.  Parking  spaces  will  be  eliminated  to  accommodate  them. 

"The  new  signals  at  the  intersection  of  Cortland  and  Bayshore  will  go  through  an  extra  cycle  to  let 
traffic  turning  into  the  garage.  This  will  mean  longer  waits  for  residents  entering  Bayshore  from 
Cortland."  (Nic  Griffin,  Resident) 

"I  think  the  DEIR  severely  underestimates  the  impact  traffic  will  have  on  Cortland  Avenue.  It  notes 
that  all  the  adjacent  freeway  exits  are  going  to  be  crowded.  One  of  the  things  is  when  people  are 
crowded,  people  will  go  out  of  their  way.  Traffic  flows  just  like  water.  You  can  expect  people  are 
going  to  be  going  through  Bernal  Heights  on  Cortland,  and  other  ways  as  well."  (John  Hayes, 
Resident) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.131 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

"The  DEIR  grossly  underestimates  the  negative  effects  of  additional  traffic  upon  Cortland  Avenue. 
The  DEIR's  projected  negative  effects  upon  traffic  from  the  additional  vehicle-trips  are  grossly 
underestimated.  Cortland  Avenue  is  already  crowded  during  morning  and  evening  rush  hours  near 
Bayshore  Boulevard  and  near  Mission  Street,  and  during  the  day  along  the  retail  portion  of  the  street. 
The  additional  traffic  from  the  project  will  likely  cause  severe  traffic  backups  along  the  entirety  of 
Cortland  Avenue,  because  the  retail  area  of  the  street  has  many  stop  signs  and  tends  to  back  up 
somewhat  even  now.  Not  only  does  backed  up  traffic  adversely  effect  drivers  by  the  time  wasted, 
but  the  significantly  increased  air  pollution  from  it  also  adversely  affects  both  those  of  us  who  walk 
to  the  retail  portion  of  Cortland  and  those  who  live  nearby.  The  increased  traffic  would  also  make  it 
more  difficult  and  dangerous  to  cross  Cortland  Avenue,  as  discussed  above."  (Jeff  Hoffman, 
Resident) 

"I  have  lived  in  Bernal  Heights  for  about  15  years;  lived  in  the  city  for  30  years.  I  was  just  looking  at 
the  map  here.  I  think  it  has  been  pointed  out  that  the  main  entrance  and  exit  is  Cortland  Avenue.  So 
we're  talking  about  Cortland  Avenue,  which  is  already  congested  all  throughout  the  day,  early  in  the 
morning  through  late  in  the  evening,  serving  as  a  driveway  into  this  gigantic  Home  Depot  project. 
And  I  think  that  this  draft  does  not  adequately  address  the  traffic  impact.  We're  also  going  to  be 
talking  about  -  they  talk  about  vehicles.  They  just  say  "vehicles."  150  vehicles  per  hour  are  going  to 
be  added  at  peak  times.  What  they  don't  specify  is  what  kind  of  vehicles.  We're  not  talking  about 
electric  cars  and  Volkswagen  bugs.  We  are  talking  about  vans;  we're  talking  about  large  pickup 
trucks;  we're  talking  about  delivery  trucks,  for  that  matter,  going  back  and  forth  across  Cortland. 
They  are  not  going  to  all  make  it  over  in  that  hour,  because  there's  going  to  be  a  huge  congestion 
along  there.  It  is  going  to  take  more  than  an  hour  to  get  across  the  hill  if  we  start  adding  all  this 
traffic.  They  are  going  to  start  going  off  on  side  streets;  there  is  going  to  be  idling;  stopping;  starting. 
And  really  I  urge  you,  rather  than  just  reading  these  things  and  listening  to  people,  just  drive  over  to 
the  area  where  this  project  is  proposed:  drive  down  to  Colma;  look  at  the  congestion  that  Home 
Depot  causes,  and  just  use  common  sense."  (Douglas  Holloway,  Resident) 

"The  Home  Depot  site  is  at  the  end  of  Cortland,  where  it  terminates  at  Bayshore.  This  means  that  the 
only  access  to  this  site  for  people  coming  from  most  of  the  City  will  be  via  Cortland  Avenue.  The 
DEIR  recognizes  the  huge  traffic  impact  that  this  site  will  have  on  Cortland  by  noting  that  traffic  will 
become  unmanageable  at  Cortland  and  Mission  Streets,  which  is  about  a  mile  form  the  project  site,  at 
the  other  end  of  Cortland.  This  means  that  traffic  will  also  be  unmanageable  all  along  Cortland 
Avenue  from  Bayshore  to  Mission.  This  is  a  hugely  devastating  impact  for  what  has  become  a 
thriving  neighborhood  and  is  unacceptable.  It  is  hard  to  imagine  how  a  DEIR  could  be  written 
without  even  acknowledging  this  concern."  (Amy  D.  Kyle,  Ph.D.,  M.P.H.,  Resident) 

"Regarding  Cortland,  I  know  on  Saturdays  and  Sundays,  as  I  have  driven  by  there  on  Bayshore,  there 
are  very  few  cars  at  this  time  going  up  or  down  on  Cortland.  And  I  don't  know  if  we  have 
information  on  when  Goodman  Lumber  was  there,  because  frankly,  the  Home  Depot  really  replaces 
Goodman  Lumber,  and  also  where  Whole  Earth  Access  was.  So  we  did  have  a  lot  of  traffic  in  those 
days;  I  don't  see  any  information  in  the  EIR  that  addressed  that  issue.  Will  this  in  fact  be  any  greater 
than  it  was  five  or  six  years  ago?  I  don't  know  how  to  answer  that  question;  I  would  ask  staff  to  look 
into  it."  (Bill  Lee,  Planning  Commissioner) 

"The  proposed  Home  Depot  Megastore  project  will  have  a  devastating  effect  on  the  traffic  on 
Cortland  Avenue.  There  is  already  too  much  use  of  Cortland  Avenue  as  an  east/west  conduit.  Home 
Depot  traffic  will  only  compound  an  enormous  problem."  (Gary  A.  Marcus,  Resident) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Lootnis  Street 


C&R.132 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

"The  traffic  is  already  bad  on  Cortland  Avenue,  especially  at  the  corner  of  Bayshore  at  rush  hour.  In 
the  morning,  there  is  already  a  line  of  cars  bumper  to  bumper,  and  one  has  to  wait  for  two  or  three 
lights  to  turn  on  Bayshore."  (Michael  Marrelli,  Resident) 

"I  have  been  a  resident  in  San  Francisco  for  nine  years  now,  and  a  lot  of  this  is  kind  of  repeat 
information,  but  I  basically  have  three  concerns  with  Home  Depot.  First,  how  it  will  affect  my 
neighborhood,  the  traffic,  and  the  air  pollution.  The  whole  reason  I  actually  moved  to  San  Francisco 
-  and  I  used  to  live  in  the  suburbs,  but  as  the  last  guy  was  just  saying,  San  Francisco  is  very  unique, 
and  what  makes  it  unique  is  like  the  small  coffee  shops  and  little  restaurants;  all  the  small  businesses. 
And  it  is  just  such  a  great  city,  as  we  all  know.  Bernal  Heights  is  also  just  a  fantastic  neighborhood. 
On  a  Saturday  if  you  go  out  there  will  be  like  tons  of  parents  with  strollers  and  dogs,  and  people 
know  each  other,  and  it  is  just  this  cute  little  neighborhood,  and  I  just  love  it  there.  And  thinking  of 
the  Home  Depot  going  in,  I  can  just  visualize  it  -  you  know,  a  few  years  from  now,  where  it  will  just 
be  like  traffic  moving  down  Cortland,  and  I  really  think  it  is  a  hard  thing  to  quantify,  but  it  is  going  to 
change  the  charm  of  this  neighborhood,  and  that's  a  big  concern  for  me.  As  far  as  traffic  goes,  like  I 
said,  along  Cortland  -  and  I  have  a  garage,  and  at  times  I'm  trying  to  back  out  of  my  garage  right 
now  I'll  have  to  sit  there  and  wait  sometimes  like  five  minutes,  because  cars  are  just  flying  by 
constantly  on  Cortland.  So  already  there  is  a  lot  of  traffic,  and  I  can  vouch  for  that."  (Katherine 
Massey,  Resident) 

"Our  second  concern  is  traffic  impacts.  Unfortunately,  the  tragic  impact  will  not  only  affect  Cortland 
at  Bayshore,  but  the  already  congested  Cortland  at  Mission  Street.  We  live  right  around  there,  and 
Bernal  Heights  will  become  the  'vein'  to  get  to  the  new  Home  Depot.  It  is  too  large,  too  much  traffic, 
pollution,  and  unforeseen  hazards  that  will  negatively  affect  a  beautiful  and  charming  and  up  and 
coming  neighborhood."  (Nina  Mayer,  Resident) 

"The  impact  of  traffic  flow  on  Cortland  Avenue  and  Bayshore."  (Patricia  F.  McManus,  Resident) 

"I  have  been  a  five-year  resident  there,  and  I  am  associated  with  Prudential  of  California  Realty.  I 
think  the  DEIR  report  doesn't  go  quite  far  enough.  I  think,  as  everyone  has  said,  we  don't  have  to 
wait  until  2015  for  the  problems;  you  can  see  them  already  today.  And  I  would  like  to  address  my 
remarks  in  three  areas,  first  starting  with  the  traffic  issue.  First  of  all,  concerning  Mission  and 
Cortland,  I  think  it  is  obvious  what  is  going  to  happen  here,  in  terms  of  the  problem  is  already  bad 
enough  for  those  trying  to  travel  outside  our  community.  It  is  an  absolute  nightmare. 

"...with  respect  to  Cortland,  I  hate  the  backlog.  As  you  will  see,  the  street  itself  is  backed  up,  but  the 
parking  problem  is  going  to  be  substantially  exacerbated,  and  that's  something  not  tenable  for  us  who 
live  in  Bernal."  (Gil  Payne,  Resident) 

"I  don't  want  more  traffic  on  Cortland.  No  Home  Depot."  (Yolanda  S.  Salazar,  Resident) 

"Increased  traffic  on  freeway  entrance  (Bayshore)  as  well  as  on  Cortland  and  at  Cortland/Mission 
intersection,  as  documented  in  the  EIR."  (Ken  Shelf,  Resident) 

"When  I  first  moved  here,  Myrtle,  the  main  corridor  to  Cortland  was  a  relative  ghost  town,  and  at 
night  you  take  your  life  in  your  hands  walking  around  there;  there  is  a  lot  of  drug  activity.  Bernal  has 
emerged  to  be  one  of  the  jewel  neighborhoods  in  San  Francisco  -  but  with  a  price.  And  right  now  in 
this  report  it  talks  about  the  year  2015  that  the  ramps  will  be  all  jammed  up,  and  that  there  will  be 
problems  with  the  intersection  of  Cortland  and  Bayshore.  Well,  I  would  suggest  that  you  take  a  nice 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.133 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

day  -  day  off,  or  sometime  in  the  weekend,  and  travel  in  our  lovely  neighborhood,  and  find  out  for 
yourself  what  it  is  like  to  travel  down  Cortland  to  Bayshore,  or  then  to  make  a  left  turn  and  try  to  get 
on  101.  It  is  so  frustrating  that  half  the  time  right  now  when  I  try  to  get  on  101,  I  end  up  taking 
Potrero,  because  I  just  can't  deal  with  the  traffic  and  the  queue  backing  up  to  101.  That's  right  now.  I 
work  at  KALW,  which  is  in  the  Burton  High  School,  which  is  the  Silver  Avenue  exit,  so  a  lot  of 
times  I  come  down  Cortland  and  I  make  the  right  turn  to  get  on  101,  so  I  know  what  I'm  talking 
about  when  right  this  moment  there's  heavy  congestion  on  Cortland.  I  mention  that  with  Home 
Depot  coming  in  and  whatever  else  may  follow,  that  people  in  Noe  Valley,  Twin  Peaks  and  the 
Castro  -  I  mean  it  is  a  slam  dunk  that  they  are  going  to  come  through  Mission  and  to  Cortland.  I 
mean  that's  the  short-cut;  that's  the  way  to  do  it.  It  is  too  tricky  the  other  ways.  So  it  will  make  a 
very,  I  think,  profound  negative  impact  traffic-wise,  and  also  in  terms  of  air  pollution.  In  addition,  I 
would  also  -  this  is  maybe  more  of  an  aside,  but  when  we  talk  about  putting  a  retail  establishment  in 
that  box,  I'm  sure  that  San  Francisco  can  do  a  better  job  to  find  a  mid-sized  retail  solution  that  would 
deal  with  the  youth  of  Bayview  Hunters  Point,  and  give  them  meaningful  employment."  (Dory 
Steinberg,  Resident) 

"I  am  concerned  about  the  increased  traffic  between  Cortland/Mission  and  Bayshore  Boulevard. 
Cortland  Street  is  a  small  corridor  and  most  likely  couldn't  hold  a  large  increase  in  the  number  of  cars 
using  this  corridor  to  travel  to  Home  Depot."  (Gina  Surber,  Resident) 

"The  traffic  right  now  on  Cortland  does  queue  up  just  to  get  into  Bayshore.  Ten  cars  now;  with 
Home  Depot,  25  cars,  when  cars  and  trucks  deliver  to  the  store,  and  it  is  chaos  on  Cortland.  It  is  not 
just  about  Cortland;  it  is  not  about  Bayshore;  it  is  about  our  transit  corridors  to  move  in  and  out  of  the 
community.  We  support  the  local  businesses  down  there,  and  we  feel  that  this  will  displace  them. 
There  will  be  1,200  new  cars  down  there  per  hour,  which  is  going  to  be  impossible  to  deal  with. 
Public  transportation  will  be  slow.  We  pride  ourselves  on  being  a  transit-first  community  in  the  city. 
The  data  that  has  been  used  is,  as  we  mentioned  -  needs  to  be  reviewed;  needs  to  be  disputed;  it  is 
not  accurate.  The  on  ramps  are  backed  up  coming  down  to  traffic  off  the  101.  It  is  going  to  have  a 
tremendous  negative  impact.  We  do  want  to  work  on  developing  an  alternative  development  plan  for 
the  sites,  and  we  ask  you  to  reject  the  draft  EIR  today,  or  when  you  do  take  your  vote."  (Mauricio 
Vela,  Executive  Director,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center) 

"Since  I  have  lived  in  Bernal  Heights  for  so  long,  I  have  seen  this  small  community  change 
dramatically  (as,  of  course,  have  other  neighborhoods  in  the  city).  Clearly,  traffic  is  one  of  the  major 
changes.  At  one  time,  you  could  throw  a  bowling  ball  down  Cortland  and  not  hit  anything;  now, 
however,  there  is  a  great  deal  of  traffic.  Building  a  huge  business  such  as  Home  Depot  at  the  end  of 
Cortland  would  increase  traffic  tremendously  and  eliminate  one  of  the  reasons  people  move  to  Bernal 
Heights  -  to  live  in  a  quiet  uncongested  neighborhood.  It's  clear  to  anyone  that  Cortland,  from 
Mission  to  Bayshore,  would  be  a  major  artery  to  get  to  Home  Depot."  (Linda  Weiner,  Resident, 
Director  of  Air  Quality  Advocacy  for  the  American  Lung  Association) 

"I  am  concerned  about  the  traffic  impact  all  along  Cortland  Street,  as  well  as  Bayshore  Boulevard, 
where  there  is  already  significant  traffic,  especially  at  rush  hour."  (Marci  Yellin,  Resident) 

"The  cut-through  traffic  on  Cortland  is  already  dangerous.  This  big  box  store  is  too  big  for  this  City, 
and  the  traffic  will  get  worse  and  more  dangerous."  (Randy  Zarcher,  Resident) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.134 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Response  #  67 

Although  the  proposed  project  driveway  would  be  located  at  the  intersection  of 
Bayshore/Cortland,  its  location  is  not  intended  to  direct  vehicles  to  use  Cortland  Avenue  as 
the  primary  access  route  to  the  project.  As  indicated  in  the  DEIR  on  page  59,  the  primary 
access  route  to  the  site  would  be  Bayshore  Boulevard,  with  about  72  percent  of  all  vehicles 
using  northbound  or  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  access  the  project  driveways.  Since 
Cortland  Avenue  is  a  narrow  street,  with  STOP  signs,  grade  changes  and  relatively  slow 
travel  speeds,  it  was  assumed  that  drivers  from  other  areas  would  tend  to  use  other  east/west 
roadways,  such  as  Cesar  Chavez  Street  and  Alemany  Boulevard,  when  possible.  It  was 
estimated  that  about  37  percent  of  the  project  patrons  would  come  from  the  Twin  Peaks, 
Mission,  West  Portal,  Balboa  Park,  and  Lake  Merced  neighborhoods,  and  that  34  of  the  trips 
from  these  neighborhoods  would  use  Cortland  Avenue  to  access  the  project  site  (this 
represents  about  12.5  percent  of  the  total  trips  generated  by  the  project).  The  routes  that  were 
assigned  to  the  street  network  included  the  use  of  Randall  Street,  San  Jose  Avenue  and 
Mission  Street  to  Cortland  Avenue.  While  it  is  anticipated  that  some  patrons  would  use 
Cortland  Avenue  to  access  the  project,  it  is  not  anticipated  that  the  adjacent  residential  side 
streets  would  be  used,  except  by  patrons  living  within  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood. 

The  project  was  estimated  to  generate  about  848  new  vehicle-trips  during  the  weekday  PM 
peak  hour  and  1,268  new  vehicle-trips  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  which  would 
be  a  mix  of  all  vehicle  types  (information  on  the  types  of  vehicles  that  would  travel  to  and 
from  the  project  is  not  available;  however,  the  vehicle  mix  would  include  private  autos  and 
commercial  vehicles,  including  contractor  and  delivery  trucks).  All  vehicle  types  were 
included  in  the  impact  analysis  at  the  study  intersections.  Pages  61  through  68  of  the  DEIR 
present  the  results  of  the  analysis  of  traffic  conditions  at  the  study  intersections.  The 
anticipated  increase  in  traffic  associated  with  the  project  on  Cortland  Avenue  (about  106 
vehicles  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  159  vehicles  during  the  Saturday  midday 
peak  hour)  would  not  substantially  worsen  operating  conditions  along  Cortland  Avenue.  At 
the  study  intersections  of  Cortland/ Andover  and  Cortland/Folsom  (located  along  the  main 
section  of  the  Cortland  Avenue  commercial  district),  the  project  would  result  in  a  minor 
increase  in  the  average  delay  per  vehicle  at  the  Cortland  Avenue  approaches.  Under  Existing 
plus  Project  conditions,  the  project  would  not  result  in  any  significant  impacts  at  the  study 
intersections.    Under  2015  Cumulative  conditions,  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.135 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

would  operate  at  unacceptable  conditions.  Mitigation  measures  have  been  proposed  to 
improve  inter-section  operations  to  acceptable  conditions  in  the  future.  The  increase  in 
traffic  volumes  on  Cortland  Avenue  would  result  in  an  increase  in  the  average  delay  per 
vehicle,  and  would  also  result  in  the  increased  potential  for  conflicts  with  pedestrians  and 
vehicles  double-parked  along  the  street.  However,  due  to  the  relatively  small  impact  on 
intersection  operations  at  the  Cortland  Avenue  study  intersection,  the  increase  in  vehicles  on 
Cortland  Avenue  would  not  be  anticipated  to  substantially  impact  pedestrians  crossing 
Cortland  Avenue. 

The  new  configuration  of  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  would  require  modification 
to  the  existing  traffic  signal.  The  signal  cycle  length  would  increase  from  60  seconds  to  1 10 
seconds,  due  to  the  provision  of  a  new  exclusive  southbound  left-turn  phase  and  a  new 
westbound  phase  to  accommodate  vehicles  destined  to  and  from  the  project.  Under  Existing 
plus  Project  conditions,  the  eastbound  approach  of  Cortland  Avenue  to  Bayshore  Boulevard 
would  have  an  average  delay  of  about  34  seconds  per  vehicle,  as  compared  to  an  average 
delay  of  19  seconds  per  vehicle  under  Existing  conditions.  Therefore,  although  there  will  be 
an  increase  in  delay  at  the  intersection,  the  intersection  would  continue  to  operate  with  an 
acceptable  level  of  service. 

Trucks  accessing  westbound  Cortland  Avenue  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  would 
make  the  movement  as  they  currently  do  under  existing  conditions.  No  parking  spaces  on 
Cortland  Avenue  are  proposed  to  be  eliminated  as  part  of  the  proposed  project.  An 
improvement  measure  was  identified  on  page  110  of  the  DEIR  that  would  eliminate  two  or 
three  on-street  parking  spaces  on  the  north  side  of  Cortland  Avenue,  immediately  west  of 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  move  the  center  line  to  the  north.  However,  DPT  has  determined 
that  this  improvement  measure  is  not  desirable  due  to  potential  impacts  on  southbound 
Bayshore  Boulevard  right-turning  traffic.  As  a  result,  this  improvement  measure  would  not 
be  implemented  and  the  proposed  project  would  not  change  the  configuration  of  Cortland 
Avenue,  as  discussed  in  Response  to  Comment  #63. 

Although  the  project  would  result  in  an  increase  in  the  number  of  vehicles  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard  and  would  somewhat  increase  the  average  delay  per  vehicle  at  the  study 
intersections,  the  project  would  not  restrict  access  to  any  business  establishments. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.136 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Pages  68  through  70  of  the  DEIR  present  the  discussion  of  impacts  of  the  project  on  transit 
operations.  The  additional  vehicle-trips  generated  by  the  proposed  project  are  not  anticipated 
to  substantially  affect  transit  operations  along  Cortland  Avenue,  Crescent  Avenue,  or 
Bayshore  Boulevard. 

Pages  47  and  61  of  the  DEIR  present  the  impacts  of  the  proposed  project  on  freeway  on-ramp 
operations.  As  indicated  on  page  61  of  the  DEIR,  the  project  would  not  change  the  operating 
conditions  at  the  study  freeway  on-ramps  over  existing  conditions,  and  the  project  would  not 
have  a  significant  impact  to  freeway  on-ramp  conditions.  See  Responses  to  Comments  #80 
through  #84  for  discussion  of  project  impacts  on  freeway  ramp  operations. 

The  following  is  in  response  to  Commissioner  Lee's  comment  regarding  traffic  levels  during 
operation  of  Goodman's  Lumber  and  Whole  Earth  Access  stores.  Since  the  project  at  the 
current  site  was  proposed  after  the  closure  of  the  Goodman's  Lumber  and  Whole  Earth 
Access  stores  that  existed  on  the  site,  it  was  not  possible  to  determine  the  level  of  traffic 
volumes  associated  with  those  uses.  Therefore,  comparisons  between  the  project-generated 
trips  and  trips  generated  by  previous  uses  cannot  be  made.  However,  it  is  likely  that  traffic 
volumes  and  vehicular  delays  when  both  Goodman's  Lumber  and  Whole  Earth  Access  were 
open  would  have  been  higher  than  those  documented  for  the  existing  conditions. 

Parking 

Comment  #68 

"I  live  on  Cortland,  right  in  the  commercial  heart  of  it  at  430.  It's  like  Wall  Street.  I'm  also  self- 
employed,  working  at  my  home,  and  use  my  car  frequently  for  my  job  -  which  is  required.  And  as 
people  have  said,  and  as  I  know  very  well,  Cortland  already  is  quite  a  mess.  One  person  said  it  was 
worse  in  the  morning  commute;  I  would  agree  with  that  with  one  exception,  which  is  the  evening 
commute,  from  about  3:00  to  5:00.  We  have  a  combination  of  double-parked  cars;  buses  where  there 
is  no  provision  to  pull  over.  In  the  morning  there's  delivery  trucks,  some  of  which  are  semis  that 
come  up  there,  and  for  example,  the  trucks  that  deliver  to  Bernal  B's,  which  is  right  in  front  of  the 
library,  right  next  to  the  community  center  -  that  semi  is  sometimes  the  length  of  the  entire  block. 
The  streets  are  extremely  congested  as  they  are,  and  extremely  narrow.  There's  very  few  options  to 
get  from  western  neighborhoods  except  through  Cortland.  People  use  it  now;  people  will  continue  to 
use  it.  So  when  I  see  in  the  DEIR  these  D's  and  F's  at  some  of  these  intersections  like  Mission  and 
Cortland;  Andover  and  Cortland,  it  is  very  frightening  to  me.  And  it  will  impact  on  my  work  and  my 
ability  to  do  my  assignments  -  to  do  my  assignments  in  a  speedy  manner  and  a  necessary  manner  to 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.137 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

meet  deadlines.  So  I  urge  you  to  reject  this  EIR,  look  for  a  more  suitable,  more  development  for  that 
area."  (Rick  Gerharter,  Resident) 

"There  will  be  a  major  impact  on  traffic.  Since  moving  to  Bernal  Heights  in  1989,  there  has  been  a 
wealth  of  change;  not  least  is  the  volume  of  traffic.  Cortland  Avenue  has  become  a  vibrant  center  for 
the  neighborhood.  Parking  has  become  difficult  with  the  consequence  that  many  more  trucks  are 
double  parking  in  order  to  deliver  to  more  and  more  stores  on  Cortland  Avenue.  At  present,  the 
situation  is  manageable;  however,  a  Home  Depot  at  the  base  of  Cortland  Avenue  at  Bayshore  will 
make  Cortland  a  major  throughway.  Rather  than  being  a  destination,  Cortland  will  become  merely  a 
means  to  an  end."  (Jeremy  and  Janice  Lane,  Resident) 

"The  plan  calls  for  a  three-level  parking  lot  at  the  end  of  Cortland  Street.  What  will  be  the  result  of 
this  besides  being  a  blatant  eyesore  on  the  landscape?  Traffic  will  back  up  all  along  Cortland  Street 
as  people  from  across  town  try  to  access  the  lot.  Cortland  Street  is  now  a  mixed  residential  and 
commercial  street  that  cannot  accommodate  this  new  large  influx  of  traffic.  The  side  streets  parallel 
to  Cortland  are  so  narrow  that  only  one  car  at  a  time  can  go  down  the  street.  If  two  cars  are  in  the 
same  block,  a  choreography  must  be  implemented  by  the  drivers  to  pass  each  other.  Additional 
traffic  will  exacerbate  this  problem  and  will  undoubtedly  cause  tempers  to  flare  and  additional  car 
and  pedestrian  accidents.  Most  streets  of  Bernal  Hill  do  not  even  have  city  street  cleaning  because 
the  streets  are  so  narrow.  Additional  traffic  will  also  mean  there  will  be  parking  problems  in  the 
commercial  area  of  Cortland  Street  and  additional  trash,  which  is  an  ongoing  problem  of  the 
neighborhood."  (Rosanne  Liggett,  Resident) 

"Yet,  the  threat  of  Home  Depot  two  blocks  from  my  house  is  extremely  distressing.  There  will  be  so 
much  traffic  on  Cortland  and  the  side  streets  that  the  character  of  the  neighborhood  will  definitely  be 
compromised.  Those  of  us  who  utilize  the  stores  and  other  outlets  on  Cortland  will  have  great 
difficulty  finding  parking  and  the  press  of  cars  will  greatly  affect  the  atmosphere."  (Deborah 
Ruskay,  Resident) 

"No  consideration  of  impact  on  Cortland  parking  (already  bad)  and  ecology/environment."  (Chris 
Witteman,  Resident) 

Response  #68 

The  project  is  not  anticipated  to  have  a  substantial  effect  on  parking  supply  and  occupancy, 
and  double-parking  along  Cortland  Avenue.  While  the  increased  traffic  volumes  may  make 
parking  more  difficult  on  Cortland  Avenue,  they  would  not  substantially  change  the 
characteristics  of  the  street  or  increase  volumes  of  traffic  to  a  level  of  significance  at  the 
study  intersections  on  Cortland  Avenue.  In  general,  project-related  vehicles  on  Cortland 
Avenue  would  likely  be  local  residents  or  from  other  nearby  area.  It  is  not  anticipated  that 
the  project  would  increase  the  parking  demand  on  Cortland  Avenue  or  increase  the  amount  of 
trash  on  the  street.  Only  local  residents  of  Bernal  Heights  are  anticipated  to  use  the 
north/south  side  streets  to  travel  to  and  from  the  project  site. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.138 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Please  see  Response  to  Comment  #67  for  information  on  distribution  of  trips  to  and  from  the 
proposed  project  and  Response  to  Comment  #70  for  information  on  vehicular/ 
pedestrian  conflicts.  As  indicated  on  page  A- 18,  Appendix  A  of  the  DEIR,  the  proposed 
project  would  not  result  in  any  significant  adverse  impacts  on  biology.  Air  quality  was 
analyzed  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  81  to  92;  please  also  see  Responses  to  Comments  #115  to 
#126  for  further  discussion  of  air  quality  impacts. 

Transit 

Comment  #69 

"Cortland  Avenue  cannot  handle  the  volume  of  traffic  that  will  be  generated  by  this  store  with  its 
focus  on  auto-driving  customers.  Many  customers  will  try  to  approach  via  Mission  to  Cortland. 
Public  transportation  on  Mission  and  Cortland  will  be  hindered."  (Amy  Beinart,  Resident) 

"I  live  on  Cortland  Avenue  and  am  very  concerned  about  the  increased  traffic  that  the  proposed 
Home  Depot  will  generate.  Already,  it  is  a  busy  thoroughfare,  one  of  the  few  that  connects  Noe 
Valley,  Glen  Park,  and  other  neighborhoods  to  the  Bayshore,  freeways,  etc.  Already  there  is  frequent 
congestion  from  the  24  bus  route  (which  has  few  pull-over  stops  on  Cortland),  business  deliveries, 
and  double-parked  cars  at  the  ATM  and  video  stores.  The  intersection  of  Cortland  and  Mission  is  of 
particular  concern.  My  work  requires  me  to  drive,  and  frequently  I  come  and  go  from  my  house 
several  times  a  day.  More  traffic  would  be  a  big  problem  for  me  and  my  work  responsibilities.  A 
Home  Depot  is  NOT  a  good  use  for  that  property  on  Bayshore."  (Rick  Gerharter,  Resident) 

"No  consideration  of  impact  on  perpendicular  (to  Cortland)  transit  routes  -  Putnam,  Nevada, 
Prospect,  etc."  (Chris  Witteman,  Resident) 

Response  #69 

The  volume  of  traffic  added  by  the  project  would  not  substantially  affect  the  operations  of  the 
Muni  24-Divisadero  bus  line  on  Cortland  Avenue,  and  Mission  Street,  or  the  67-Bernal 
Heights  on  Folsom  Street,  Cortland  Avenue,  and  Nevada  Street.  Since  the  primary  use  of 
Cortland  Avenue  for  project-related  vehicles  would  be  between  Mission  Street  and  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  it  is  anticipated  that  only  local  residents  would  use  the  narrow  residential  side 
streets.  Therefore,  no  or  minimal  increases  in  traffic  volumes  were  estimated  on  the  side 
streets  as  a  result  of  the  project.  As  a  result,  the  transit  routes  that  operate  in  Bernal  Heights 
perpendicular  to  Cortland  Avenue  (e.g.,  as  noted  by  the  commenter,  on  Putnam  Street, 
Nevada  Street,  and  Prospect  Avenue)  would  not  be  significantly  impacted  by  the  proposed 
project  traffic. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.139 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Pedestrians 

Comment  #70 

"The  increased  traffic  on  Cortland  will  cause  intolerable  congestion  that  will  create  unsafe 
conditions.  I  am  concerned  for  the  safety  of  my  kids  and  others  in  the  neighborhood."  (Mike  Boss, 
Resident) 

"I  have  lived  for  20  years  at  the  corner  of  Cortland  and  Prospect.  I'm  very  concerned  about  the  future 
when  I  hear  another  1,200  cars  going  through  every  hour.  Because  why  would  you  use  Cortland  to 
get  over  there  when  everyone  says  'Well,  it  is  too  crowded'?  Well,  the  reason  is  because  Cesar 
Chavez  has  a  lot  of  stop  lights  that  one  would  have  to  stop  at,  whereas  Cortland  has  stop  signs.  So 
people  blow  through  the  stop  signs.  My  experience  living  at  Cortland  and  Prospect  is  that  when  I 
want  to  go  up  and  shop  at  The  Good  Life  Grocery,  for  example,  trying  to  cross  the  street  you  can 
take  your  life  in  your  hands  at  some  times,  because  the  people  that  drive  through  a  neighborhood  - 
my  attitude  when  I'm  in  a  neighborhood  is  that  I'm  in  my  neighborhood  walking  around,  but  when 
someone  is  driving  through  my  neighborhood  trying  to  get  somewhere  at  rush  hour,  their  attitude  is 
I'm  in  the  way,  and  I  shouldn't  be  crossing  the  street.  And  if  I  do,  'Screw  you.'  I  have  had  that 
happen.  I  have  been  hit  by  a  car  before  in  my  life;  it  is  a  very  frightening  experience.  And  I  was 
almost  hit  by  a  car  outside  The  Good  Life  Grocery,  from  people  who  just  say,  'Well,  the  residents  are 
in  the  way,  and  they  should  wait  for  the  cars  to  go.'  And  they  don't  know  who  has  the  right  of  way  in 
a  crosswalk.  At  Cortland-Prospect,  when  cars  come  over  the  hill  and  they  see  the  deadlocked  cars 
backed  up  for  a  block  going  down  to  Mission  Street,  going  westward  on  Cortland,  they  take  a  right 
on  Prospect,  oftentimes  in  an  SUV  taking  it  like  a  Porsche.  There  is  like  the  gunning  acceleration, 
and  'I've  got  my  radial  tires  on,  and  my  anti-sway  bars,  and  I  can  go  35  miles  an  hour'  -  through  a 
street  that  would  be  better  built  for  like  15  miles  an  hour.  And  that's  just  the  way  they  are.  I  clean  up 
the  front  of  our  house  that  we  live  in,  and  get  the  soot  off  of  it,  and  within  three  days  or  so  there  is 
another  coating  of  black  soot  on  the  white  paint."  (John  Daniel,  Resident) 

"[The  DEIR  does  not]  consider  the  significant  negative  impacts  of  additional  traffic  upon  pedestrians 
in  the  retail  area  of  Cortland  Avenue,  where  there  are  far  more  pedestrians  than  at  Cortland  and 
Bayshore,  the  area  addressed  by  the  DEIR  regarding  pedestrian  impacts  (DEIR  at  [page]  70). 

"The  increased  traffic  from  the  project  will  cause  increased  delays  and  danger  to  pedestrians  in  the 
retail  area  of  Cortland  Avenue  and  on  side  streets  near  Cortland. 

"Pedestrians  already  face  delays  in  crossing  the  retail  area  of  Cortland  Avenue  due  to  the  traffic 
there.  This  project  will  cause  even  more  delays  for  those  pedestrians  and  add  to  the  danger  of 
crossing  Cortland.  The  DEIR  totally  fails  to  address  this  issue,  which  is  a  change  in  the  existing 
physical  conditions  along  Cortland  Avenue,  making  it  a  significant  effect  of  the  project  that  must  be 
addressed  by  the  DEIR. 

Pedestrians  on  side  streets  near  Cortland  Avenue  will  also  be  negatively  effects  by  the  increased 
traffic  from  vehicles  attempting  to  escape  the  increased  traffic  on  Cortland.  These  pedestrians  will 
face  a  substantially  increased  danger  from  the  additional  traffic,  because  the  drivers  using  side  streets 
to  avoid  Cortland  will  be  in  even  more  of  a  hurry  than  those  on  Cortland  and  will  thus  be  driving 
faster  and  more  aggressively.  Again,  this  will  be  a  very  large  change,  as  there  is  currently  very  little 
traffic  on  these  side  streets  and,  again,  the  DEIR  totally  fails  to  address  this  substantial  and 
significant  negative  effect  of  the  project."  (Jeff  Hoffman,  Resident,  written  comments) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.140 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

"The  delays  and  dangers  to  pedestrians  that  may  be  caused  by  all  the  extra  traffic  along  Cortland 
Avenue,  and  the  extra  traffic  on  Cortland  Avenue  that  would  make  it  hard  for  residents  to  get  around. 
And  also,  I  add  that  the  extra  traffic  is  going  to  be  on  the  side  streets  around,  because  Cortland  is 
going  to  be  so  backed  up  by  this  project  -  if  it  happens."  (Jeff  Hoffman,  Resident,  oral  testimony) 

"It  is  already  very  congested  on  Cortland  Street  and,  in  fact,  difficult  to  cross  safely  even  during  the 
slow  times  of  the  day.  This  project  does  nothing  to  address  long-term,  appropriate  development  of 
this  community.  As  a  community,  we  are  interested  in  locally  grown  mixed-use  projects  that  serve 
the  specific  needs  of  this  community  and  support  our  very  local  economy."  (Lynnly  Labovitz, 
Resident) 

"Traffic  flow  through  Bernal  Heights  along  Cortland  significantly  would  increase.  This  traffic  flow 
would  not  contribute  to  the  merchants  on  Cortland  and  would  surely  contribute  to  additional 
pedestrian/car  accidents  at  intersections  all  over  Bernal  Heights  (such  as  Andover  and  Cortland).  For 
reference,  just  try  to  get  to  the  Home  Depot  in  Colma  on  a  Saturday  or  Sunday."  (Michael  D.,  Linda, 
Catriana,  Hanh,  and  Michael  L.  Larson,  Residents) 

"I  have  worked  for  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  for  18  years,  first  for  the  Recreation  and 
Park  Department,  and  presently  for  the  Department  of  Public  Works.  I  have  also  lived  in  Bernal 
Heights  for  the  last  eight  years.  Before  that  I  lived  in  Noe  Valley  as  a  homeowner,  and  I  know 
whenever  I  wanted  to  do  a  home  improvement  project,  I  very  cleverly  used  the  short-cut  down 
Cortland  instead  of  Army  Street,  as  it  was  then  called;  now  Cesar  Chavez,  to  get  to  Goodman's 
Lumber.  And  I  feel  that  it  will  be  a  lava  flow  from  the  neighborhoods  of  Diamond  Heights,  Glen 
Park  and  Twin  Peaks,  down  Cortland,  to  visit  the  new  Home  Depot.  I  think,  besides  the  traffic 
coming  down  Cortland,  we  have  a  huge  pedestrian  population  enjoying  our  lovely,  unique 
neighborhood.  There  are  many  children,  seniors,  and  handicapped  people  walking  around.  Several 
times,  on  my  way  home  from  work  up  Cortland,  I  have  witnessed  -  two  accidents  and  several  near- 
miss  accidents  in  front  of  The  Good  Life.  Cortland  Avenue  is  an  east/west-facing  street  and  at  sunset 
time,  which  is  earlier  in  the  year  during  winter,  the  sun  is  blinding,  and  people  are  impatient  and  sort 
of  run  stop  signs,  have  caused  two  accidents  that  I  have  witnessed,  and  many  near-misses.  Also,  on 
my  way  to  work  -  I  work  in  the  DPW  yard  off  of  Bayshore  and  Kansas  -  on  the  way  to  work  I 
roughly  travel  Cortland  at  about  7:00  a.m.  in  the  morning.  There  are  two  businesses  at  the  far  end  of 
Cortland,  near  Bayshore:  Ruiz  Paving  and  Rock  and  Rose  Landscaping.  Ruiz  has  many,  many  large 
trucks,  which  they  must  back  out  of  their  facility."  (Chris  Ellen  Montgomery,  Resident) 

"The  increase  in  traffic  on  Cortland  and  other  residential  streets  is  unacceptable.  There  are  many 
children  here  and  they  sometimes  play  on  the  (currently)  quiet  residential  streets.  More  traffic  will 
make  this  dangerous."  (Jo  Ann  Ogden,  Resident) 

Response  #70 

The  South  Bernal  Heights  Traffic  Calming  Study,27  completed  in  2002,  was  conducted  to 
determine  how  best  to  improve  safety  for  pedestrians  and  bicyclists,  and  reduce  speed  and 
cut-through  traffic  on  local  streets.  A  number  of  improvement  measures  were  identified  for 
Cortland  Avenue  to  reduce  speeding  and  through  traffic  while  respecting  the  important 


27  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic,  South  Bernal  Heights  Traffic  Calming 
Study,  Final  Report,  November  2002,  op  cit. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.141 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

functionality  of  the  street  as  a  transit  route  and  pedestrian  environment.  These  measures 
included  the  use  of  improved  pavement  markings  and  installation  of  traffic  islands  and  bus 
bulbs  to  enhance  intersection  visibility,  reduce  pedestrian  crossing  distances,  increase  driver 
attention  at  crossings,  increase  sidewalk  area  and  improve  transit  operations.  DPT  will 
implement  these  measures  in  the  near  future,  as  funding  becomes  available.  While  the 
proposed  Home  Depot  store  would  add  to  the  existing  traffic  volumes  on  Cortland  Avenue, 
which  would  increase  the  potential  for  vehicular/pedestrian  conflicts,  the  additional  volumes 
would  not  be  substantial  enough  to  significantly  affect  the  operating  conditions  at  the 
signalized  and  unsignalized  intersections,  and  would  not  result  in  a  significant  increase  in 
safety  risks  to  pedestrians  and  bicyclists.  Implementation  of  the  project  would  not  conflict 
with  the  goals  and  effectiveness  of  the  planned  traffic  calming  measures  on  Cortland  Avenue 
and  other  Bernal  Heights  streets. 

The  major  intersections  within  the  retail  area  of  Cortland  Avenue  have  crosswalks  and  are  all 
STOP-controlled,  and  pedestrians  have  the  right-of-way  to  cross  the  street.  The  project  is  not 
anticipated  to  increase  the  volume  of  traffic  or  travel  speeds  on  the  side  streets  within  the 
Bernal  Heights  neighborhood.  Although  the  average  delay  per  vehicle  at  intersections  along 
Cortland  Avenue  would  somewhat  increase  with  the  addition  of  project-generated  vehicle- 
trips,  this  increase  would  not  be  substantial  and  the  study  intersections  would  continue  to 
operate  acceptably.  As  such,  it  is  not  anticipated  that  traffic  volumes  on  Cortland  Avenue 
(either  existing  vehicles  or  new  vehicles  generated  by  the  project)  would  divert  to  the  side 
streets  to  travel  between  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Mission  Street  or  result  in  faster  and  more 
aggressive  driving  on  these  streets  as  suggested  by  the  commenter.  Since  most  side  streets 
within  Bemal  Heights  are  narrow,  discontinuous,  and  have  substantial  grade  changes,  only 
local  residents  of  Bernal  Heights  would  likely  use  the  north/south  side  streets  to  travel  to  and 
from  the  project  site,  and  project-generated  vehicles  are  projected  to  use  Cortland  Avenue  as 
the  most  direct  route  between  Mission  Street  and  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

With  regard  to  questions  of  appropriate  community  development,  as  noted  in  Response  to 
Comment  #26,  the  DEIR  on  pages  40  and  41  lists  some  of  the  relevant  objectives  and  plans 
of  the  General  Plan,  and  the  Planning  Commission  would  determine  the  consistency  of  the 
proposed  project  with  the  General  Plan.  As  indicated  on  page  41  of  the  DEIR,  the  project 
site  is  zoned  M-l  (Light  Industrial),  and  the  proposed  project  would  conform  to  that  zoning. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.  1 42 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


See  Response  to  Comment  #54  for  additional  information  on  the  South  Bernal  Heights 
Traffic  Calming  Study  and  accident  data  along  Cortland  Avenue.  See  DEIR  pages  81  to  92 
and  Responses  to  Comments  #115  through  #126  regarding  the  Air  Quality  analysis. 

Other  Traffic  Issues 
Comment  #71 

"Mission  and  Cortland  Intersection  Degrades  to  LOS  F.  The  Transportation  Study  shows  the 
intersection  of  Mission  and  Cortland  degrading  to  the  unacceptable  LOS  F.  This  will  have  serious 
impacts  for  Bernal  residents,  as  this  is  a  primary  gateway  to  and  from  Bernal  Heights.  It  will  also 
impact  many  Muni  lines,  including  the  14-Mission,  24-Divisadero,  49-Van  Ness,  and  67-Bernal 
Heights.  The  proposed  mitigation  to  this  is  to  install  a  left-turn  signal  for  southbound  Mission  Street. 
This  is  completely  inadequate  to  resolve  the  problems  that  this  traffic  will  create.  The  DEIR  assumes 
that  the  traffic  will  be  primarily  southbound,  turning  left  onto  Cortland  (to  cut  through  Bernal 
Heights  to  reach  the  Home  Depot).  Yet,  traffic  counts  from  the  recent  BART  Feasibility  Study  for  a 
possible  30th  and  Mission  Station  do  not  confirm  this  assertion  that  most  traffic  is  southbound.  In 
BART's  counts,  the  southbound  total  for  a  24-hour  period  was  8,020  vehicles,  and  the  count  for 
northbound  traffic  was  10,668  vehicles  (Feasibility  Study  for  an  Infill  BART  Station,  May  2003, 
Appendix  B).  So,  a  left-turn  lane  for  the  southbound  traffic  would  cause  more  delays  and  queuing 
for  northbound  traffic.  The  proposed  mitigation  is  completely  inadequate.  This  situation  warrants 
much  more  careful  study  and  analysis."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle, 
Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 
Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #7 1 

Field  observations  of  traffic  operations  were  performed  at  the  intersection  of  Mission/ 
Cortland  during  both  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  analysis  time  periods.  Under 
existing  conditions,  it  was  observed  that  the  longest  delays  to  traffic  (and  correspondingly  the 
highest  congestion)  was  in  the  southbound  direction.  These  delays  were  primarily  due  to 
vehicles  and  buses  waiting  to  turn  left  on  Cortland  Avenue.  In  addition,  the  stop  for  the 
southbound  Muni  14-Mission,  49-Van  Ness  and  67-Bernal  Heights  bus  lines  is  located  to  the 
north  of  the  intersection,  within  the  curb  travel  lane  (the  24-Divisadero  turns  left  onto 
Cortland  Avenue).  As  such,  when  Muni  buses  are  stopped,  congestion  in  the  southbound 
direction  is  exacerbated.  Due  to  gaps  in  the  northbound  traffic  flow,  most  vehicles  are  able  to 
make  the  left-turn  onto  Cortland  Avenue  within  one  signal  cycle  (either  during  the  green  or 
the  yellow  phases). 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.143 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

As  indicated  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  61  and  62  under  Existing  plus  Project  conditions,  the 
intersection  of  Mission/Cortland  would  operate  at  acceptable  levels  of  service  (LOS  C  during 
the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  LOS  D  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour).  The  addition 
of  project-related  vehicles  at  this  intersection  is  based  on  the  anticipated  distribution  of 
customers,  as  developed  from  the  market  research  analysis  (see  Response  to  Comment  #44). 
Based  on  this  analysis,  it  was  estimated  that  the  project  would  add  slightly  more  vehicles  to 
the  project  site  from  northbound  Mission  Street  (23  vehicles  during  the  weekday  PM  peak 
hour  and  37  vehicles  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour)  than  from  southbound  Mission 
Street  (20  vehicles  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  32  vehicles  during  the  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour).  As  such,  the  analysis  did  not  assume  or  conclude  that  project-related 
traffic  would  primarily  be  southbound  on  Mission  Street. 

The  weekday  counts  from  the  BART  feasibility  study  {Feasibility  Study  for  an  Infill  BART 
Station  in  San  Francisco,  at  30th  and  Mission,  BART,  May  2003)  referred  to  in  the  comment 
do  indicate  that,  over  the  course  of  a  24-hour  day,  northbound  volumes  on  Mission  Street 
south  of  Cesar  Chavez  are  greater  than  southbound  volumes.  However,  the  traffic  volumes 
from  the  BART  feasibility  study  for  the  PM  peak  hour  (5:00  to  6:00  p.m.,  which  was  the 
basis  for  the  analysis  in  the  Transportation  Study  for  this  project),  are  generally  equally  split 
between  the  northbound  and  southbound  directions  (692  vehicles  and  670  vehicles, 
respectively).  The  peak  hour  turning  movement  counts  used  in  the  traffic  analysis  for  this 
project  are  similar  to  the  traffic  volumes  in  the  BART  feasibility  study  in  the  northbound 
direction  (655  vehicles  as  compared  with  the  692  vehicles  from  the  BART  feasibility  study) 
and  higher  in  the  southbound  direction  (928  vehicles  as  compared  with  the  670  vehicles  in 
the  BART  feasibility  study).  It  should  be  noted  that  the  existing  traffic  volumes  were  not 
used  to  determine  the  assignment  of  project-generated  trips,  but  instead  information  on  the 
geographic  location  of  potential  customers  was  used.  For  information  on  the  trip  distribution 
assumptions,  refer  to  Responses  to  Comments  #43  and  #44. 

As  indicated  on  DEIR  pages  77  and  78,  under  2015  Cumulative  conditions,  the  intersection 
of  Mission/Cortland  would  operate  at  LOS  F  during  both  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday 
midday  peak  hours.  The  worsening  in  the  operating  conditions  would  primarily  be  due  to  the 
anticipated  increase  in  traffic  volumes  along  northbound  and  southbound  Mission  Street, 
which  makes  it  more  difficult  for  vehicles  to  make  the  left  turn,  and  increases  the  delay  to 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshorc/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.144 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


southbound  traffic.  The  unacceptable  operating  conditions  can  be  improved  by  upgrading  the 
traffic  signal  to  create  a  new  protected  southbound  left-turn  phase.  The  proposed  changes  to 
the  signalization  of  this  intersection  would  decrease  the  amount  of  green  time  to  the 
northbound  movement,  and  would  increase  the  amount  of  green  time  for  the  westbound  and 
southbound  movements  (which  currently  experience  higher  delays).  As  a  result,  the  delays  to 
northbound  traffic  would  somewhat  increase;  however,  these  increases  would  still  be  lower 
than  those  experienced  by  southbound  traffic.  This  improvement  was  analyzed  in  the  DEIR, 
and  would  result  in  the  intersection  operating  at  LOS  C  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour 
and  LOS  D  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour. 

According  to  DPT,  it  would  be  possible  to  modify  the  existing  signal  at  the  intersection  to 
accommodate  the  new  phase.  As  noted  in  Response  to  Comment  #64,  DPT  has  requested 
that  the  project  sponsor  pay  for  the  full  cost  of  this  signal  upgrade  and  the  project  sponsor  has 
agreed  to  do  so. 

Comment  #72 

"Traffic  Operations  at  the  Cortland  Underpass.  This  issue  was  raised  in  earlier  comments  and  has 
never  been  answered.  Can  Cortland  Avenue  accommodate  the  growth  in  traffic?  How  much  parking 
will  be  removed?  Does  the  underpass  need  to  be  widened?  How  much  will  delay  be  increased? 
These  questions  still  need  to  be  answered.  It  is  very  clear  that  additional  analyses  of  the  operations  in 
this  area  are  required  to  verify  the  findings  that  no  further  mitigations  are  required."  (Charles  M. 
Abrams,  President,  Abrams  Associates) 

Response  #72 

Two  intersections  along  Cortland  Avenue  were  evaluated  in  the  Transportation  Study  for 
intersection  operating  conditions  during  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hours: 
Cortland/ Andover  and  Cortland/Folsom.  In  addition,  the  intersections  at  the  ends  of  Cortland 
Avenue  were  also  evaluated:  Mission/Cortland  and  Bayshore/Cortland.  In  general,  these 
study  intersections  would  be  able  to  accommodate  the  increase  in  traffic  associated  with  the 
project,  since  all  intersections  would  continue  to  operate  with  acceptable  conditions  (LOS  D 
or  better)  during  both  analysis  time  periods.  At  the  Cortland  Avenue  approaches  to  the 
intersections  at  Andover  and  Folsom,  the  average  delay  would  increase  by  less  than  three 
seconds  per  vehicle.  Under  2015  Cumulative  conditions,  all  studied  intersections  were 
estimated  to  continue  to  operate  acceptably,  except  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland 
(which  would  be  improved  by  DPT  and  paid  for  by  the  project  sponsor). 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.145 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

At  the  U.S.  101  underpass,  Cortland  Avenue  currently  has  one  travel  lane  and  one  parking 
lane  in  both  the  eastbound  and  westbound  direction.  Based  on  the  results  of  the  traffic 
analysis,  and  the  increase  in  traffic  volumes  with  the  project,  it  is  anticipated  that  the  current 
roadway  configuration  would  be  sufficient  to  accommodate  project-related  traffic  volumes, 
and  the  underpass  would  not  need  to  be  widened. 

To  improve  operation  at  the  eastbound  Cortland  Avenue  approach  to  Bayshore  Boulevard 
(which  would  operate  at  LOS  E  under  Existing  plus  Project  and  2015  Cumulative  conditions, 
although  the  intersection  as  a  whole  would  operate  at  LOS  D),  an  improvement  measure  was 
identified  on  page  110  of  the  DEIR  that  would  eliminate  two  or  three  on-street  parking 
spaces  on  the  north  side  of  Cortland  Avenue,  immediately  west  of  Bayshore  Boulevard.  As 
indicated  in  Responses  to  Comments  #63  and  #67,  DPT  has  determined  that  this 
improvement  measure  is  not  desirable  due  to  potential  impacts  on  southbound  Bayshore 
Boulevard  right-turning  traffic.  As  a  result  this  improvement  measure  would  not  be 
implemented  and  the  proposed  project  would  not  eliminate  any  parking  spaces  along 
Cortland  Avenue. 

Comment  #73 

"Access  Driveways  to  the  Proposed  Home  Depot.  The  amount  of  peak  hour  traffic  at  each  driveway 
needs  to  be  analyzed  and  presented  more  clearly.  In  particular,  the  proposed  driveway  out  of  Home 
Depot  at  Cortland  is  quite  substandard,  and  will  result  in  significant  congestion,  back-up,  and 
confusion  within  the  garage.  The  adjacent  parking  aisles  and  customer  pick-up  traffic  are  all  mixed 
together,  and  will  result  in  extensive  traffic  congestion."  (Charles  M.  Abrams,  President,  Abrams 
Associates) 

Response  #73 

The  project  site  would  be  served  by  six  driveways:  four  driveways  for  customers  and 
employees  and  two  driveways  for  delivery  vehicles  (see  Figure  C&R.6,  Site  Plan,  on  page 
C&R.27,  which  replaces  Figure  2  on  DEIR  page  28).  The  main  customer/employee  entrance 
and  exit  for  the  project  site  would  be  located  at  the  eastern  side  of  the  existing  Bayshore 
Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue  intersection  and  would  allow  full  entry  and  exit  to  the  site. 
Secondary  customer/employee  entrance/exit  driveways  would  be  located  on  Loomis  Street 
and  Waterloo  Street.  An  additional  secondary  exit-only  driveway  would  be  located  at  the 
north  end  of  the  parking  garage,  and  would  provide  right-turn  only  egress  to  northbound 


2001 .0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.146 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Bayshore  Boulevard;  this  driveway  would  primarily  serve  customers  leaving  the  project  site 
from  the  pick-up  area  at  the  front  of  the  store.  All  of  these  customer/employee  entrance 
driveways  would  serve  the  ground  level  of  the  parking  garage  and  would  provide  access  to 
the  parking  garage  ramp;  however,  the  Waterloo  Street  driveway  would  primarily  serve  the 
small  parking  area  located  underneath  and  south  of  the  ramp.  A  separate  driveway  for 
delivery  access  would  be  located  at  the  northern  portion  of  the  project  site  north  of  the  store, 
with  ingress  from  Loomis  Street  and  egress  to  Bayshore  Boulevard  (right-turn  out  only). 

The  project  driveway  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  would  be  considered  the  main 
access  point  for  the  project,  and  would  accommodate  about  333  inbound  and  342  outbound 
vehicles  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  and  535  inbound  and  475  outbound  vehicles 
during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  With  this  increase  in  volumes,  the  signalized 
intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  would  continue  to  operate  under  acceptable  conditions 
(LOS  D). 

The  parking  garage  layout  was  developed  by  the  project  architect,  based  on  an  operational 
assessment  of  traffic  flows  into  and  out  of  the  project  site  and  internal  circulation.  The  layout 
was  refined  based  on  comments  by  City  agencies  and  the  transportation  consultant  for  the 
DEIR  (Wilbur  Smith  Associates).  At  the  primary  driveway  at  Bayshore/Cortland,  the  ingress 
and  egress  were  configured  to  reduce  the  potential  for  vehicular  conflicts  within  the  garage. 
For  instance,  there  would  be  two  entrance  lanes,  and  vehicles  entering  the  garage  would 
travel  for  a  distance  within  the  garage  prior  to  being  able  to  turn  into  a  parking  lane.  This 
distance  would  allow  for  stacking  of  about  seven  vehicles  per  lane,  which  would  be  sufficient 
to  accommodate  the  average  inbound  queue  within  the  garage.  However,  due  to  the  presence 
of  breaks  in  the  internal  median,  it  may  be  possible  that  at  times  vehicles  waiting  to  turn  left 
through  the  median  break  may  block  travel  along  inbound  lanes.  Whenever  this  occurs,  it  is 
possible  that  inbound  queues  inside  the  garage  could  impede  access  to  the  upper  levels  of  the 
parking  garage,  and  these  queues  may  extend  onto  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  could  potentially 
impede  traffic,  transit,  and  pedestrian  flows  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  proposed  parking 
garage  would  also  have  two  exit  lanes  and  a  right-turn  pocket,  which  would  provide 
sufficient  queuing  space  so  that  vehicles  exiting  the  garage  would  not  block  internal 
circulation. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.147 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Also  see  Responses  to  Comments  #3  and  #6  regarding  project  design. 

Cortland  A  venue  /Bayshore  Boulevard  Garage  Access 

Comment  #74 

"Current  Design  Shows  Cortland  Avenue  Feeding  into  Home  Depot  Driveway.  This  will  cause  an 
unacceptable  level  of  congestion  at  this  intersection.  While  the  DEIR  tries  to  dismiss  this  issue  with 
a  traffic  signal  and  left-turn  lanes,  one  need  only  picture  the  cars  queued  up  to  enter  the  Colma 
driveway  to  imagine  the  kind  of  congestion  that  this  project  will  introduce  into  this  major  traffic 
route  for  Bernal  Heights.  Why  don't  any  of  the  alternatives  show  a  different  layout,  where  the 
driveway  does  not  line  up  with  Cortland?"  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle, 
Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 
Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

"Page  62,  paragraph  2  indicates  Cortland  Avenue  will  see  an  increase  in  vehicle  traffic  of  106 
vehicles  during  the  weekday  and  159  vehicles  during  the  Saturday  peak.  It  is  anticipated  this  will 
result  in  an  increase  in  the  hourly  traffic  volumes.  This  merits  further  discussion  of  where  vehicle 
access  to  the  project  could  be  to  determine  if  this  will  discourage  or  encourage  the  use  of  Cortland 
Avenue  to  the  project.  These  vehicles  will  most  likely  be  residents  of  the  Cortland  area,  not  people 
who  will  use  the  freeways.  Just  as  the  commuters  travel  Cortland,  so  will  residents."  (Shelley 
Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President) 

"I  live  in  Bernal  Heights,  and  I  want  to  talk  to  you  about  traffic.  I  have  two  main  points  that  I  want 
to  make  about  traffic,  and  the  fact  that  information  that's  in  this  EIR  -  it  doesn't  make  these 
conclusions;  just  looking  at  the  data  shows  the  traffic  impacts  are  enormous  to  Bernal  Heights.  And 
it  also  brings  up  very  serious  issues  with  the  data  and  how  it  was  used,  that  we  think  results  in  the 
traffic  impacts  being  seriously  underestimated  and  under-represented  here.  As  you  can  see,  it  is  right 
out  of  the  proposal:  The  Home  Depot  plan  has  its  main  driveway  coming  right  off  the  Cortland 
Avenue.  Cortland  is  our  main  thoroughfare  in  Bernal  Heights.  Bernal  Heights  is  a  very  pedestrian- 
friendly  community,  and  while  there  is  -  they  have  added  another  little  access  in  the  back  off 
Loomis,  this  is  the  primary  driveway  (indicating). 

"I'm  just  wondering  if  any  of  you  have  ever  been  to  the  Colma  Home  Depot.  Just  picture  for  a 
moment  what  the  driveway  looks  like  there,  and  what  that  parking  garage  looks  like,  and  that's  going 
to  be  our  reality  every  time  we  come  down  Cortland  Avenue,  and  try  to  just  get  out  of  our 
neighborhood  and  go  to  our  work  or  shopping  or  other  places  along  there.  And  that's  just  something 
that  we  think  is  really  problematic.  One  thing  that  the  traffic  study  does:  A  companion  study  was 
done;  the  transportation  study  -  is  it  evaluates  all  of  the  freeways  and  intersections  with  what  they 
call  'level  of  service.'  I'm  sure  you  are  familiar  with  this.  It  grades  everything  A-B-C-D-E-F,  and  the 
City  says  anything  E  or  F  is  unacceptable.  We  actually  think  that  D  is  also  unacceptable,  given  that 
we  have  so  few  routes  to  get  in  and  out  of  Bernal  Heights. 

"This  (indicating)  is  what  the  results  of  the  traffic  study  show:  that  in  fact  by  the  year  2015,  all  of  the 
freeway  on-ramps  will  be  at  level  F;  completely  unacceptable.  And  that  means  extremely  long 
delays;  terrible  backups.  Many  of  our  other  intersections  will  be  at  Levels  D  or  E,  and  in  fact  the 
data  is  somewhat  skewed,  because  what  they  will  do  is  they  will  take  an  average  for  an  intersection, 
and  then  -  which  will  lower  the  grade.  There  is  a  Cortland  eastbound,  and  it  is  going  to  be  a  Level  E, 
and  it  is  going  to  be  a  serious  problem  for  all  of  us.  They  make  it  look  like  it  is  D  because  they 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.  1 48 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

average  eastbound  and  westbound.  So  here  (indicating)  is  what  it  looks  like  for  our  whole 
neighborhood.  These  are  all  the  intersections;  anything  that  is  red  is  F,  and  anything  yellow  is  E,  and 
greens  are  D's,  and  basically  everywhere  we  go  we  run  into  trouble.  These  little  highlights  are  called 
'collision  hot  spots'  that  were  identified  by  the  City's  own  traffic  study  -  that  are  also  problematic." 
(Barbara  Kyle,  Resident) 

"The  entrance  to  Home  Depot  should  not  be  at  Cortland  and  Bayshore.  It  creates  more  traffic  in  my 
neighborhood.  Why  not  have  the  entrance  on  the  backside?"  (Amy  C.  Miller  and  Virginia  Bowen, 
Residents) 

Response  #74 

As  analyzed  in  the  DEIR,  the  project's  main  ingress/egress  driveway  for  customers  and 
employees  would  be  located  at  the  east  side  of  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland.  In 
addition,  a  full  driveway  (both  inbound  and  outbound)  would  be  located  on  Loomis  Street  (a 
minor  street  that  parallels  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  connects  with  Oakdale  Avenue  and 
Industrial  Street).  Secondary  access  would  be  provided  on  Waterloo  Street  (both  inbound 
and  outbound)  and  on  Bayshore  Boulevard,  north  of  Cortland  Avenue  (outbound  only). 

In  general,  the  location  of  the  primary  access  point  for  the  project  would  not  substantially 
affect  the  volume  of  traffic  that  would  use  Cortland  Avenue.  Cortland  Avenue  is  one  of  the 
few  east/west  streets  in  the  area,  with  Cesar  Chavez  Street  to  the  north  of  Bernal  Heights  and 
Alemany  Boulevard,  Crescent  Avenue,  and  Silver  Avenue  to  the  south  of  Bernal  Heights.  As 
a  result,  Cortland  Avenue  would  be  the  most  direct  route  for  vehicles  traveling  to  and  from 
the  project  site  from  specific  locations  in  San  Francisco,  such  as  Bernal  Heights,  and  would 
also  provide  connections  to  the  nearby  Glen  Park,  Diamond  Heights,  Balboa  Park,  and  outer 
Noe  Valley  neighborhoods.  For  access  between  the  project  site  and  the  rest  of  San  Francisco, 
other  routes  would  be  more  direct  and  convenient. 

Although  the  relocation  of  the  driveway  away  from  Cortland  Avenue  would  reduce  the 
visibility  of  the  project  from  vehicles  on  Cortland  Avenue  and  therefore  make  it  less 
attractive,  Cortland  Avenue  would  still  be  the  most  direct  route  for  a  certain  portion  of  Home 
Depot  users. 

Although  the  project  driveway  would  be  located  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland,  its 
location  would  not  direct  vehicles  to  use  Cortland  Avenue  as  the  primary  access  route  to  the 
project.  As  indicated  in  the  DEIR  on  page  59,  the  primary  access  route  to  and  from  the  site 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.149 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

would  be  Bayshore  Boulevard,  with  about  72  percent  of  all  vehicles  using  northbound  and 
southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  access  the  project  driveways.  Since  Cortland  Avenue  is  a 
narrow  street,  with  STOP  signs,  grade  changes  and  relatively  slow  traffic,  it  was  assumed 
that  drivers  from  other  areas  would  tend  to  use  other  east/west  roadways,  such  as  Cesar 
Chavez  Street  and  Alemany  Boulevard. 

A  number  of  vehicle  access  configurations  were  evaluated  during  the  preliminary  design 
phase.  For  projects  of  similar  scale  as  the  proposed  project,  conventional  site  design  practice 
calls  for  aligning  the  major  driveway  at  a  signalized  intersection.  This  configuration  allows 
for  existing  infrastructure  to  be  utilized  (would  not  require  the  construction  of  new 
intersections  and  traffic  signals)  and  would  allow  for  the  most  efficient  processing  of  vehicles 
entering  and  exiting  the  project  site.  Along  this  section  of  Bayshore  Boulevard,  the  major 
arterials  are  not  closely  spaced  (about  1,400  feet  apart);  as  a  result,  the  only  currently 
signalized  intersection  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site  that  could  be  used  for  the  primary 
access  point  was  Bayshore/Cortland.  Although  it  would  be  possible  to  locate  the  main 
driveway  at  another  location  along  Bayshore  Boulevard,  it  would  require  the  establishment  of 
a  new  intersection  and  the  installation  of  new  traffic  signals,  crosswalks,  and  other  devices. 

Results  of  traffic  analysis  indicated  that  the  proposed  project  would  not  cause  a  significant 
impact  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland.  In  addition,  secondary  access  would  be 
provided  on  Loomis  Street  (at  the  east  side  of  the  project  site),  and  additional  driveways 
would  be  located  on  Waterloo  Street  and  north  of  Cortland  Avenue  on  Bayshore  Boulevard, 
which  would  serve  to  disperse  the  traffic  entering  and  exiting  the  project  site. 

The  access  plan  for  the  proposed  project  differs  substantially  from  the  Home  Depot  store  in 
Colma.  The  Colma  location  has  only  one  access  point  and  the  parking  garage  was  not 
designed  with  store  access  from  the  upper  parking  level.  As  a  result,  there  is  often  a  long 
queue  of  vehicles  waiting  to  enter  the  parking  garage,  and  most  customers  search  for  parking 
on  the  ground  floor.  The  proposed  project  would  include  several  design  elements  that  would 
reduce  the  potential  for  these  issues.  First,  the  project  would  have  multiple  entrance  locations 
-  from  Bayshore  Boulevard,  Loomis  Street,  and  Waterloo  Street.  As  a  result,  the  inbound 
vehicles  would  be  spread  throughout  three  entrance  points,  and  not  restricted  to  a  single 
location.    Second,  the  ground  floor  of  the  parking  garage  has  been  designed  to  channel 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.150 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

vehicles  to  the  parking  garage  ramp  to  the  upper  levels.  Third,  the  second  level  of  the 
parking  garage  would  have  a  connection  and  entrance  to  the  mezzanine  level  of  the  store 
where  a  secondary  pick-up  location  would  also  be  provided.  These  amenities  would  enhance 
the  attractiveness  of  parking  in  the  upper  levels  of  the  parking  garage.  Fourth,  Home  Depot 
would  request  its  employees  to  park  on  the  top  level  of  the  garage,  in  order  to  allow  the  lower 
floors  to  be  used  by  customers. 

The  study  intersections  were  analyzed  using  the  standard  Highway  Capacity  Manual  (HCM) 
operations  methodology,  as  described  on  page  48  of  the  DEIR.  The  methodology  determines 
the  capacity  for  each  lane  group  approaching  the  intersection,  and  the  level  of  service  is 
based  on  the  delay  for  the  various  movements  with  the  intersection,  consistent  with  this 
standard  methodology.  A  combined  weighted  average  delay  and  level  of  service  are 
presented  for  each  intersection,  which  is  then  used  to  determine  whether  a  project  would  have 
a  significant  impact.  For  CEQA  purposes,  in  San  Francisco,  a  signalized  intersection  is 
considered  to  operate  at  unacceptable  conditions  when  it  reaches  LOS  E  or  F  (an  average 
delay  of  more  than  40  seconds  per  vehicle).  An  intersection  that  operates  at  LOS  D  would 
not  be  considered  to  operate  with  unacceptable  conditions,  even  if  the  average  delay  were  to 
approach  40  seconds  per  vehicle.  Under  Existing  plus  Project  conditions,  the  project  was 
determined  to  have  less-than-significant  traffic-related  impacts  at  all  study  intersections. 

Information  regarding  collision  hot  spots,  per  the  South  Bernal  Heights  Traffic  Calming 
Study,  is  included  in  Response  to  Comment  #54. 

As  indicated  by  Table  2  in  the  DEIR  on  page  49,  the  proposed  project  would  not  have 
significant  impacts  on  intersection  operating  conditions.  However,  to  address  comments  on 
the  design  of  the  project  site,  including  the  location  of  the  customer/employee  driveways  for 
the  parking  garage,  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  in  conjunction  with  Wilbur 
Smith  Associates  and  the  project  sponsor,  developed  six  alternate  access  plans  for  the  project 
(to  relocate  the  primary  and  secondary  vehicular  entrances  and  exits)  to  improve  Existing 
plus  Project  conditions  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland.  Based  on  these  plans,  the 
project-generated  vehicle-trips  were  reassigned  to  the  local  roadway  network,  and  new 
Existing  plus  Project  Option  intersection  operating  conditions  were  determined.  The  results 
of  these  analyses  were  also  compared  to  conditions  with  the  proposed  project.  In  addition, 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.151 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

each  option  was  assessed  in  terms  of  circulation  and  operation,  including  potential  secondary 
effects  to  Bayshore  Boulevard.28 

ACCESS  PLANS 

The  following  are  the  access  plans  for  the  proposed  project  and  the  six  access  options.  These 
access  plans  are  summarized  in  Table  C&R.3,  page  C&R.153,  and  are  shown  in  Figures 
C&R.13  through  C&R.18  on  pages  C&R.154  through  C&R.159.  Note  that  these  options 
primarily  address  changes  to  the  customer/employee  access  plans,  and  do  not  affect 
circulation  for  deliveries  (except  Options  E  and  F). 

Project 

As  proposed,  the  primary  vehicular  access  for  customers/employees  would  be  located  at  the 
intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  (with  all  movements  allowed)  and  at  Loomis  Street. 
Secondary  ingress  would  be  provided  at  Waterloo  Street,  and  secondary  egress  would  be 
provided  at  Waterloo  Street  and  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  north  of  the  main  driveway 
(right-turn  only). 

Option  A 

The  primary  vehicular  ingress  and  egress  for  customers/employees  would  be  split  between 
Bayshore/Cortland  (ingress)  and  Loomis  Street  (egress).  Secondary  ingress  would  be 
provided  at  Loomis  Street  and  Waterloo  Street,  and  secondary  egress  would  be  provided  at 
Waterloo  Street,  and  Bayshore  Boulevard  (right-turn  only). 

Option  B 

The  primary  vehicular  ingress  and  egress  for  customers/employees  would  be  split  between 
Loomis  Street  (ingress)  and  Bayshore/Cortland  (egress).  Secondary  ingress  would  be 
provided  at  Waterloo  Street,  and  secondary  egress  would  be  provided  at  Loomis  Street, 
Waterloo  Street,  and  Bayshore  Boulevard  (right-turn  only). 


Wilbur  Smith  Associates  memo  to  Bill  Wycko,  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  -  February  8,  2005.  This 
memo  is  on  file  and  available  for  public  review  by  appointment  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  1660 
Mission  Street,  Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco,  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E!. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.152 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Table  C&R.3 
Summary  of  Access  Option  Configurations 

Option 

Primary  Entrance 

Primary  Exit 

Secondary  Entrance 

Secondary  Exit 

Project 

Bayshore/ Cortland 
Loomis 

Bayshore/Cortland 
Loomis 

Waterloo 

Bayshore  (rt  only) 
Waterloo 

A 

B  ay  shore/ Cortl  and 

Loomis 

Loomis 
Waterloo 

Bayshore  (rt  only) 

Loomis 

Waterloo 

B 

Loomis 

Bayshore/Cortland 

Waterloo 

Bayshore  (rt  only) 

Loomis 

Waterloo 

C 

Loomis 

Loomis 

Waterloo 

Bayshore  (rt  only) 
Waterloo 

D 

Loomis 
Bayshore 

Loomis 

Waterloo 

Bayshore  (rt  only) 
Waterloo 

E 

Bayshore 

Bayshore  (rt  only) 

Bayshore  (rt  only) 
Loomis 

Bayshore  (rt  only) 
Loomis 

F 

Bayshore 

Bayshore 

Bayshore  (rt  only) 
Loomis 

Bayshore  (rt  only) 
Loomis 

Option  C 

The  primary  vehicular  access  for  customers/employees  would  be  located  at  Loomis  Street, 
with  no  access  provided  at  Bayshore/Cortland.  Secondary  ingress  would  be  provided  at 
Waterloo  Street,  and  secondary  egress  would  be  provided  at  Waterloo  Street  and  at  Bayshore 
Boulevard  (right-turn  only). 

Option  D 

The  primary  vehicular  access  for  customers/employees  would  be  located  at  Loomis  Street 
and  at  Bayshore  Boulevard  (north  of  Cortland  Avenue),  with  no  access  at  Bayshore/Cortland. 
Secondary  ingress  and  egress  would  be  provided  at  Waterloo  Street.  This  option  would 
require  the  establishment  of  a  new  southbound  left-turn  pocket  within  the  Bayshore 
Boulevard  median  for  access  to  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  driveway  and  a  new  traffic  signal  at 
the  intersection. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.  1 5  3 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.154 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.155 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.156 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.157 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


2001 .0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.158 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.159 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Option  E 

The  currently  proposed  parking  garage  would  be  relocated  to  the  northern  section  of  the 
project  site  (similar  to  configuration  with  the  old  Goodman's  Lumber).  Primary  vehicular 
access  for  customers/employees  would  be  located  at  Bayshore  Boulevard  (north  of  Cortland 
Avenue),  but  left-turns  from  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  driveway  to  southbound  Bayshore 
Boulevard  would  be  prohibited.  Secondary  ingress  would  be  provided  at  Bayshore 
Boulevard  (right-turn  only)  and  Loomis  Street,  and  secondary  egress  would  be  provided  at 
Bayshore  Boulevard  (right-turn  only)  and  Loomis  Street.  With  this  configuration,  the 
loading  areas  would  be  relocated  to  the  southeast  corner  of  the  site,  with  delivery  trucks 
entering  from  Loomis  Street  and  exiting  to  Waterloo  Street.  This  option  would  require  the 
establishment  of  a  new  southbound  left-turn  pocket  within  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  median 
for  access  to  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  driveway  and  a  new  traffic  signal  at  the  intersection.  In 
addition,  a  new  crosswalk  would  need  to  be  established  at  the  south  side  of  the  intersection. 

Option  F 

The  design  and  access  plan  for  the  project  would  be  the  same  as  with  Option  E,  except  that 
the  left-turn  from  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  driveway  to  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard 
would  be  permitted.  This  option  would  require  the  establishment  of  a  new  southbound  left- 
turn  pocket  within  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  median  for  access  to  the  Bayshore  Boulevard 
driveway  and  a  new  traffic  signal  at  the  intersection.  In  addition,  a  new  crosswalk  would 
need  to  be  established  at  the  south  side  of  the  intersection,  with  an  exclusive  pedestrian  walk 
phase  (with  pedestrian  actuation). 

INTERSECTION  OPERATING  CONDITIONS 

For  each  access  option,  the  inbound  and  outbound  vehicle-trips  generated  by  the  project  (as 
documented  in  the  DEIR)  were  reassigned  to  the  local  roadway  network  depending  upon  the 
changes  to  the  ingress  and  egress  plans.  For  ingress/egress  that  would  not  change  (e.g., 
ingress  with  Option  A),  the  traffic  assignments  would  be  the  same  as  with  the  project.  For 
ingress/egress  that  would  change  (e.g.,  egress  with  Option  A),  it  was  assumed  that  vehicles 
would  reroute  to  the  nearest  and  most-convenient  driveway. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.  1 60 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


In  addition,  it  was  assumed  that  the  origin/destination  of  each  vehicle-trip  would  not  change 
from  those  developed  for  the  proposed  project.  As  a  result,  only  the  study  intersections  in  the 
immediate  vicinity  of  the  project  site  would  be  affected  by  the  rerouting  of  vehicles  for  the 
access  options  (including  Bayshore/Oakdale,  Bayshore/Cortland,  Bayshore/Industrial, 
Oakdale/Loomis,  and  Industrial/  Loomis). 

The  following  tables  present  the  results  of  the  intersection  operations  analysis  for  the  project 
and  the  six  options  for  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hours. 

Project 

Under  Existing  plus  Project  conditions,  all  study  intersections  would  operate  acceptably 
(LOS  D  or  better)  during  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hours  as  indicated  by 
Table  2  in  the  DEIR  on  page  49.  However,  there  would  be  some  congestion  and  queuing 
issues  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  (primarily  along  the  eastbound  Cortland 
Avenue  approach),  due  to  the  substantial  increase  in  traffic  volumes  and  the  changes  to  the 
traffic  signal  to  accommodate  the  new  vehicle  movements  to  and  from  the  project  site. 


Intersection  Operati 
Weekday  P 

Table  C&R.4 
ons  Analysis  Results  for  the  Proposed  Project 
VI  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours 

Intersection 

Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 

Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 

Delay  LOS 

Delay  LOS 

Bayshore/Oakdale 
B  ay  shore/Drive  way 
Bayshore/Cortland 
Bayshore/Industrial 
Oakdale/Loomis  (1) 
Industrial/Loomis  (1) 

29.7  D 

27.4  D 
33.0  D 
16.6  C 
8.6  B 

18.0  C 

34.6  D 
21.9  C 
8.7  B 
5.6  B 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  February  2005 

Notes: 

Unsignalized  intersection  -  delay  and  LOS  presented  for  worst  approach 


Option  A 

Due  to  the  rerouting  of  outbound  traffic  from  the  Cortland/Bayshore  driveway  to  Loomis 
Street,  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  would  have  reduced  traffic  volumes  and  a 
simplified  signal  timing  plan  (the  new  westbound  signal  phase,  which  was  added  for  the 
project,  would  be  eliminated).  As  a  result,  the  intersection  would  operate  with  a  better  level 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.161 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

of  service  than  with  the  project  configuration  during  both  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday 
midday  peak  hours.  Although  Option  A  would  result  in  substantially  higher  traffic  volumes 
at  the  intersection  of  Industrial/Loomis  (since  most  vehicles  leaving  the  project  site  would 
need  to  use  Loomis  Street),  most  of  these  vehicles  would  be  turning  right  from  southbound 
Loomis  Street  to  westbound  Industrial  Street  and  therefore  would  not  be  subject  to  long 
delays.  Overall,  all  other  study  intersections  would  operate  similar  to  the  Existing  plus 
Project  conditions  during  both  analysis  periods,  and  Option  A  would  not  result  in  any  new 
traffic  impacts. 


Table  C&R.5 

Intersection  Operations  Analysis  Results  for  Circulation  Option  A 
Weekday  PM  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours 

Intersection 

Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 

Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 

Delay  LOS 

Delay  LOS 

B  ayshore/Oakdal  e 
B  ayshore/Dr  i  ve  way 
Bayshore/Cortland 
B  ayshore/Industrial 
Oakdale/Loomis  (1) 
Industrial/Loomis  (1) 

28.1  D 

18.0  C 

33.2  D 
21.6  D 
9.1  B 

17.4  C 

21.0  C 

24.1  C 
13.0  C 
7.1  B 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  February  2005 


Notes: 

(1)Unsignalized  intersection  -  delay  and  LOS  presented  for  worst  approach 
Option  B 

All  intersections  would  operate  with  similar  levels  of  service  as  with  the  project 
configuration,  except  the  intersection  of  Industrial/Loomis.  At  this  intersection,  there  would 
be  a  substantial  increase  in  vehicles  turning  left  from  eastbound  Industrial  Street  to 
northbound  Loomis  Street  to  enter  the  project  site,  in  addition  to  the  high  existing  eastbound 
and  westbound  traffic  volumes.  As  a  result,  the  southbound  approach  at  this  intersection 
would  worsen  to  LOS  F  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  (the  northbound  approach 
currently  operates  at  LOS  F),  resulting  in  a  new  traffic  impact  with  Option  B.  To  improve 
operations  at  this  intersection,  a  new  traffic  signal  would  be  required,  and  the  southbound 
approach  would  need  to  be  restriped  to  provide  two  lanes  (which  would  require  the 
elimination  of  about  five  on-street  parking  spaces). 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.  1 62 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


At  the  intersection  of  Industrial/Loomis,  the  new  eastbound  left-turning  traffic  could  be 
accommodated  either  through  a  permitted/protected  left-turn  signal  phase  which  would  allow 
for  any  queues  to  clear  at  the  end  of  each  signal  cycle,  or  with  a  left-turn  pocket  with  an 
exclusive  left-turn  signal  phase  (note  that  it  would  be  possible  to  create  a  left-turn  pocket  at 
this  location  by  eliminating  on-street  parking  further  east  on  Industrial  Street  and  by  shifting 
the  eastbound  travel  lanes  to  the  south).  However,  the  queues  that  would  develop  during  the 
weekday  and  weekend  peak  hours  of  activity  were  estimated  to  be  between  10  and  25 
vehicles,  which  would  spill  back  past  the  left-turn  pocket  (if  provided)  and  would  extend 
back  to  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Industrial. 

A  detailed  traffic  simulation  analysis  would  be  needed  at  this  location  to  determine  the  signal 
timing  and  coordination  scheme  between  the  traffic  signals  at  the  intersections  of 
Bayshore/Industrial  and  Industrial/Loomis,  and  to  determine  the  extent  of  the  queues  in  both 
directions  between  the  intersections.  This  analysis  would  need  to  be  conducted  prior  to  the 
approval  of  Option  B,  and  would  be  necessary  to  refine  the  design  of  the  street  and  the  traffic 
signals.  It  should  be  noted  that  if  sufficient  space  is  not  available  between  the  two 
intersections  to  accommodate  the  queuing,  Option  B  would  not  be  considered  feasible. 


Intersection  Operati 
Weekday  P 

Table  C&R.6 
ons  Analysis  Results  for  Circulation  Option  B 
VI  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours 

Intersection 

Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 

Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 

Delay  LOS 

Delay  LOS 

Bayshore/Oakdale 
B  ay  shore/Driveway 
B  ay  shore/Cortl  and 
B  ayshore/Industrial 
Oakdale/Loomis (1) 
Industrial/Loomis  (l) 

32.1  D 

27.6  D 
32.8  D 
17.1  C 
>45  F 

24.3  C 

32.6  D 
22.2  C 
9.8  B 

18.7  C 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  February  2005 
Notes: 

(1)Unsignalized  intersection  -  delay  and  LOS  presented  for  worst  approach 


Option  C 

Since  the  primary  vehicular  access  would  be  moved  to  Loomis  Street  and  further  north  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  would  continue  to  have  the  same 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.163 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

configuration  as  existing,  and  the  intersection  operations  would  be  similar  to  Existing 
conditions.  With  limited  access  at  Bayshore  Boulevard,  most  vehicles  destined  to  and  from 
the  site  would  need  to  use  Loomis  Street,  Oakdale  Avenue,  and  Industrial  Street.  As  a  result, 
the  southbound  approach  at  the  intersection  of  Industrial/Loomis  would  worsen  to  LOS  E 
during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  (the  northbound  approach  currently  operates  at  LOS  F), 
resulting  in  a  new  traffic  impact  with  Option  C.  To  improve  operations  at  this  intersection,  a 
new  traffic  signal  would  be  required,  and  the  southbound  approach  would  need  to  be 
restriped  to  provide  two  lanes  (which  would  require  the  elimination  of  about  five  on-street 
parking  spaces). 

At  the  intersection  of  Industrial/Loomis,  the  new  eastbound  left-turning  traffic  could  be 
accommodated  either  through  a  permitted/protected  left-turn  signal  phase  which  would  allow 
any  queues  to  clear  at  the  end  of  each  signal  cycle,  or  with  a  left-turn  pocket  with  an 
exclusive  left-turn  signal  phase  (note  that  it  would  be  possible  to  create  an  eastbound  left-turn 
pocket  at  this  location  by  eliminating  on-street  parking  further  east  on  Industrial  Street  and 
shifting  the  eastbound  travel  lanes  to  the  south).  However,  the  queues  that  may  develop 
during  the  weekday  and  weekend  peak  hours  of  activity  were  estimated  to  be  between  1 0  and 
25  vehicles,  which  would  spill  back  past  the  left-turn  pocket  (if  provided)  and  would  extend 
back  to  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Industrial. 

A  detailed  traffic  simulation  analysis  would  be  needed  at  this  location  to  determine  the  signal 
timing  and  coordination  scheme  between  the  traffic  signals  at  the  intersections  of 
Bayshore/Industrial  and  Industrial/Loomis,  and  to  determine  the  extend  of  the  queues  in  both 
directions  between  the  intersections.  This  analysis  would  need  to  be  conducted  prior  to  the 
approval  of  Option  C,  and  would  be  necessary  to  refine  the  design  of  the  street  and  the  traffic 
signals.  It  should  be  noted  that  if  sufficient  space  is  not  available  between  the  two 
intersections  to  accommodate  the  queuing,  Option  C  would  not  be  considered  feasible. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.164 


July  28, 2005 


vn.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Table  C&R.7 

Intersection  Operations  Analysis  Results  for  Circulation  Option  C 
Weekday  PM  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours 

Intersection 

Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 

Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 

Delay  LOS 

Delay  LOS 

Bayshore/Oakdale 
B  ayshore/Driveway 
Bayshore/Cortland 
Bayshore/Industrial 
Oakdale/Loomis (1) 
Industrial/Loomis  (1) 

32.4  D 

12.8  B 
31.3  D 
18.7  C 
32.7  E 

25.9  D 

12.2  B 
23.0  C 
10.5  C 
13.4  C 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  February  2005 


Notes: 

(1)  Unsignalized  intersection  -  delay  and  LOS  presented  for  worst  approach 
Option  D 

Since  the  primary  vehicular  access  would  be  moved  to  Loomis  Street  and  further  north  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  would  continue  to  have  the  same 
configuration  as  existing,  and  the  intersection  operations  would  be  similar  to  Existing 
conditions.  To  accommodate  the  ingress  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  project 
site,  a  left-turn  pocket  would  need  to  be  established  within  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  median. 
Since  inbound  traffic  would  be  split  between  the  various  project  driveways  (vehicles 
approaching  from  the  north  would  likely  use  the  Bayshore  driveway,  vehicles  approaching 
from  the  south  would  likely  use  the  Waterloo  or  Bayshore  driveways,  and  vehicles 
approaching  from  the  east  and  west  would  likely  use  the  Loomis  driveway),  traffic  would  be 
relatively  evenly  split  between  all  the  access  points.  Overall,  all  study  intersections  would 
operate  similar  to  or  better  than  under  the  Existing  plus  Project  conditions  during  both 
analysis  periods,  and  Option  D  would  not  result  in  any  new  traffic  impacts.  Due  to  the 
relatively  short  distance  between  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  and  the  Bayshore 
driveway  (about  150  feet),  the  design  and  operation  of  the  traffic  signals  would  need  to  be 
coordinated. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.165 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Intersection  Operati 
Weekday  P 

Table  C&R.8 
3ns  Analysis  Results  for  Circulation  Option  D 
VI  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours 

Intersection 

Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 

Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 

Delay  LOS 

Delay  LOS 

Bayshore/Oakdale 
Bayshore/Driveway 
Bayshore/Cortland 
Bayshore/Industrial 
Oakdale/Loomis (l) 
Industrial/Loomis  (1) 

29.8  D 
3.3  A 
12.6  B 
29.6  D 
17.0  C 

11.9  C 

18.5  C 

5.2  B 
11.7  B 
22.1  C 

11.6  C 

8.3  B 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  February  2005 


Notes: 

(1^Unsignalized  intersection  -  delay  and  LOS  presented  for  worst  approach 
Option  E 

With  the  primary  vehicular  access  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  north  of  Cortland  Avenue 
and  on  Loomis  Street,  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  would  continue  to  have  the  same 
configuration  as  existing,  and  the  intersection  operations  would  be  similar  to  Existing 
conditions.  To  accommodate  the  ingress  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  project 
site,  a  left-turn  pocket  would  need  to  be  established  within  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  median, 
with  a  new  traffic  signal.  Overall,  all  study  intersections  would  operate  similar  to  or  better 
than  under  the  Existing  plus  Project  conditions  during  both  analysis  periods,  and  Option  E 
would  not  result  in  any  new  traffic  impacts. 


Table  C&R.9 

Intersection  Operations  Analysis  Results  for  Circulation  Option  E 
Weekday  PM  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours 

Intersection 

Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 

Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 

Delay 

LOS 

Delay 

LOS 

Bayshore/Oakdale 

30.0 

D 

18.2 

C 

B  ay  shore/Drive  way 

3.3 

A 

5.1 

B 

B  ayshore/Cortland 

12.4 

B 

11.2 

B 

Bayshore/Industrial 

33.2 

D 

24.2 

C 

Oakdale/Loomis  (1) 

19.3 

C 

12.4 

C 

Industrial/Loomis  (1) 

9.0 

B 

6.9 

B 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  February  2005 


Notes: 

(l)Unsignalized  intersection  -  delay  and  LOS  presented  for  worst  approach 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.166 


July  28, 2005 


VH.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Option  F 

With  the  primary  vehicular  access  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  north  of  Cortland  Avenue 
and  on  Loomis  Street,  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  would  continue  to  have  the  same 
configuration  as  existing,  and  the  intersection  operations  would  be  similar  to  Existing 
conditions.  To  accommodate  the  ingress  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  project 
site,  a  left-turn  pocket  would  need  to  be  established  within  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  median, 
with  a  new  traffic  signal.  In  addition,  since  left-turns  would  be  allowed  from  the  project 
driveway  to  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard,  conditions  along  Industrial  Street  and  Oakdale 
Avenue  would  be  somewhat  better  than  with  Option  E.  Overall,  all  study  intersections  would 
operate  similar  to  or  better  than  under  the  Existing  plus  Project  conditions  during  both 
analysis  periods,  and  Option  F  would  not  result  in  any  new  traffic  impacts. 


Intersection  Operati 
Weekday  P 

Table  C&R.10 
ons  Analysis  Results  for  Circulation  Option  F 
VI  and  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hours 

Intersection 

Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 

Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 

Delay  LOS 

Delay  LOS 

Bayshore/Oakdale 
B  ay  shor  e/Dri  ve  way 
Bayshore/Cortland 
Bayshore/Industrial 
Oakdale/Loomis  (1) 
Industrial/Loomis  (1) 

30.0  D 

11.7  B 

12.8  B 

32.9  D 
13.2  C 
9.6  B 

18.2  C 
15.0                  C  i 
12.6  B 
21.9  C 
10.6  C 
6.1  B 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  February  2005 


Notes: 

(1)Unsignalized  intersection  -  delay  and  LOS  presented  for  worst  approach 

SUMMARY  OF  INTERSECTION  OPERATIONS  ANALYSIS 

With  the  access  configuration  associated  with  Options  A,  D,  E,  and  F,  all  study  inter-sections 
would  continue  to  operate  with  similar  conditions  as  with  the  proposed  project,  and  there 
would  be  no  additional  transportation-related  impacts.  In  addition,  conditions  at  Bayshore/ 
Cortland  would  be  better  than  with  the  proposed  project. 

It  should  be  noted  that  with  Options  D,  E,  and  F,  a  new  southbound  left-turn  from  Bayshore 
Boulevard  into  the  project  site  would  need  to  be  established  (within  the  existing  median),  and 
a  new  traffic  signal  would  need  to  be  installed.   Signalization  of  the  new  intersection  of 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.167 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Bayshore  Boulevard  with  the  driveway  would  need  to  be  coordinated  with  the  nearby 
intersections  at  Bayshore/Oakdale  and  Bayshore/Cortland,  especially  with  respect  to 
providing  sufficient  queuing  distance  between  the  new  intersection  and  Cortland  Avenue. 
With  Option  A,  the  southbound  left-turn  pocket  would  be  located  at  the  intersection  of 
Bayshore/Cortland  (as  with  the  project),  and  would  require  adjustments  to  the  signalization 
plan. 

With  Options  B  and  C,  the  intersection  of  Industrial/Loomis  would  be  considered  to  operate 
with  unacceptable  conditions  (the  two  STOP-controlled  approaches  would  operate  at  LOS 
E/F)  under  the  Existing  plus  Project  Option  conditions  for  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour.  To 
improve  conditions  at  this  intersection,  a  new  traffic  signal  would  be  necessary  (note  that  the 
intersection  volumes  would  met  signal  warrants)  and  the  southbound  approach  would  need  to 
be  restriped  to  provide  two  travel  lanes.  However,  due  to  the  potential  for  lengthy  queues  at 
the  eastbound  approach  (vehicles  turning  left  onto  Loomis  Street  to  access  the  project  site), 
additional  analysis  of  Industrial  Street  would  be  necessary  to  focus  on  signalization,  signal 
coordination,  and  design  issues.  If  these  issues  cannot  be  sufficiently  addressed,  both 
Options  B  and  C  may  be  determined  to  not  be  feasible,  due  to  the  potential  for  substantial 
effects  to  circulation  on  Industrial  Street  and  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

DETAILED  ASSESSMENTS 

To  supplement  the  intersection  operations  analysis  of  the  access  options,  a  detailed 
assessment  for  each  option  was  conducted.  The  purpose  of  this  assessment  was  to  refine  the 
plans  (such  as  length  of  the  new  southbound  left-turn  pockets),  and  to  ensure  that  each  option 
could  be  implemented  without  resulting  in  additional  impacts  to  Bayshore  Boulevard  and 
local  traffic  conditions  (such  as  driveway  locations  and  signalization  plans  along  Bayshore 
Boulevard).  The  results  of  the  queuing  assessment  at  the  new  southbound  left-turn  pockets 
are  presented  in  the  following  tables. 

"Option  A 

With  Option  A,  a  southbound  left-turn  would  be  established  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the 
Cortland  Avenue  driveway.  This  left-turn  pocket  would  be  within  the  existing  center  left- 
turn  median  of  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  would  require  the  modification  to  the  existing  traffic 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.168 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

signal  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland.  Configuration  of  the  left-turn  pocket  would 
be  the  same  as  with  the  project. 

Design  of  Bay  shore  Southbound  Left-Turn  Pocket:  Although  the  left-turn  pocket  from 
southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  be  similar  to  that  with  the  project,  the  elimination  of 
the  westbound  phase  (for  vehicles  leaving  the  garage)  would  result  in  shorter  cycle  lengths 
and  therefore  shorter  queues.  It  was  estimated  that  at  the  southbound  left-turn,  the  maximum 
(95th  percentile)  queue  would  be  about  80  feet  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  125  feet 
during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  and  100  feet  during  the  weekday  peak  hour  of 
activity.  As  such,  the  left-turn  pocket  would  need  to  be  about  125  feet  in  length  to 
accommodate  the  theoretical  maximum  queues  that  would  develop. 


Table  C&R.ll 

Results  for  Option  A  -  Southbound  Left-Turn  to  Cortlanc 

Driveway 

Time  Period 

Volume 

Average 

Maximum 

Queue  Length 

Queue  Length 

Weekday  PM 

Saturday  Midday 

Weekday  Peak  Hour  of  Activity 

95 

155 

120 

55 
85 
65 

80 
125 
100 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  February  2005 
Notes: 

Queue  length  assumes  an  average  of  22  feet  per  vehicle. 

Maximum  Queue  =  95th  percentile  queue,  theoretical  maximum  queue  used  for  design  of  turn 
pockets. 


The  establishment  of  the  proposed  left-turn  pocket  would  continue  to  restrict  access  from 
northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  linear  off-street  parking  lot  in  front  of  the  Floorcraft 
Kitchen  Appliance  Center  at  470  Bayshore  Boulevard  (although  since  the  pocket  would  be 
shorter,  fewer  spaces  would  be  affected).  As  such,  a  northbound  U-turn  pocket  would  need 
to  be  created  (as  previously  discussed  with  the  project).  This  pocket  would  be  located 
directly  north  of  the  southbound  left-turn  pocket  and  would  allow  U-turns  to  occur  mid- 
block,  thereby  reducing  the  effect  on  access  from  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  uses 
along  the  west  side  of  the  street. 

Parking:  Option  A  would  allow  for  the  provision  of  about  536  parking  spaces  (including  147 
spaces  on  the  ground  level,  139  spaces  on  the  second  level  and  250  spaces  on  the  third  level), 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.169 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

which  would  be  three  spaces  less  than  with  the  proposed  project  (539  spaces).  As  such, 
Option  A  would  not  provide  sufficient  spaces  to  accommodate  the  maximum  weekday  and 
weekend  parking  demand  (502  spaces  and  539  spaces,  respectively).  Assuming  a  90  percent 
effective  capacity  of  the  parking  garage  (which  would  correspond  to  an  effective  supply  of 
482  spaces),  there  would  continue  to  be  a  parking  shortfall  during  the  peak  hours  of  peak 
days. 

Other  Queuing/Design  Issues:  Since  the  inbound  and  outbound  traffic  would  be  split 
between  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Loomis  Street,  there  would  be  the  reduced  potential  for 
internal  or  external  circulation  conflicts.  Since  the  Bayshore  driveway  would  accommodate 
only  entering  traffic,  vehicles  inside  the  garage  turning  left  into  the  ground  floor  parking  area 
would  not  affect  inbound  travel.  Due  to  the  configuration  of  the  garage  up/down  ramps  and 
the  connection  to  the  Loomis  Street  driveway,  it  would  be  somewhat  difficult  for  vehicles 
parked  on  the  upper  levels  of  the  garage  to  access  the  ground  floor  customer  pick-up  area. 
As  such,  there  may  be  some  congestion  inside  the  garage  near  the  Loomis  driveway; 
however,  this  configuration  would  not  substantially  affect  ingress  and  egress  operations. 
Overall,  it  is  anticipated  that  Option  A  would  have  a  minimal  affect  to  operations  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard  or  Loomis  Street. 

Option  B 

With  Option  B,  the  primary  entrance  would  be  from  Loomis  Street,  and  there  would  be  no 
ingress  from  Bayshore  Boulevard.  As  such,  the  configuration  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  would 
not  change  from  current  conditions.  However,  since  the  Cortland  Avenue  driveway  would  be 
the  primary  exit,  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  would  need  to  be  modified  to  provide 
a  new  westbound  approach. 

Parking:  Option  B  would  allow  for  the  provision  of  about  548  parking  spaces  (including  159 
spaces  on  the  ground  level,  139  spaces  on  the  second  level  and  250  spaces  on  the  third  level), 
which  would  be  nine  spaces  more  than  with  the  proposed  project  (539  spaces).  As  such, 
Option  B  would  provide  sufficient  spaces  to  accommodate  the  maximum  weekday  and 
weekend  parking  demand  (502  spaces  and  539  spaces,  respectively).  However,  assuming  a 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.170 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

90  percent  effective  capacity  of  the  parking  garage  (which  would  correspond  to  an  effective 
supply  of  493  spaces),  there  would  continue  to  be  a  parking  shortfall  during  the  peak  hours  of 
peak  days. 

Other  Queuing/Design  Issues:  Since  the  inbound  and  outbound  traffic  would  be  split 
between  the  Loomis  Street  and  Bayshore  Boulevard,  respectively,  there  would  be  no  major 
internal  or  external  circulation  conflicts.  The  inbound  driveway  from  Loomis  Street  would 
provide  two  lanes  and  a  direct  connection  to  the  garage  ramp;  however,  vehicles  destined  to 
the  ground  floor  customer  pick-up  area  may  cross  directly  in  front  of  these  inbound  vehicles, 
which  would  result  in  minor  congestion  at  the  driveway.  The  outbound  driveway  to 
Bayshore  Boulevard  would  have  over  150  feet  of  queuing  space  and  would  be  able  to 
accommodate  queues  that  would  form  at  the  exit.  Overall,  it  is  anticipated  that  Option  B 
would  have  a  minimal  affect  to  operations  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  or  Loomis  Street. 

Since  all  inbound  traffic  would  need  to  access  the  garage  from  Loomis  Street  (with  the 
exception  of  the  secondary  access  point  on  Waterloo  Street),  it  would  be  complicated  to 
devise  signage  to  direct  access  to  the  project  site  (since  most  of  the  inbound  traffic  would 
travel  to  the  project  site  on  Bayshore  Boulevard),  and  an  extensive  signage  and  information 
program  would  need  to  be  developed.  As  a  result,  there  may  be  additional  congestion  at  the 
intersections  of  Bayshore/Oakdale  and  Bayshore/Industrial,  since  vehicles  may  drive  past  the 
project  site  and  then  turn  onto  Oakdale  Avenue  or  Industrial  Street  to  access  the  Loomis 
driveway. 

Due  to  the  high  traffic  volume  destined  to  the  project  site  from  Industrial  Street  to  Loomis 
Street,  there  would  be  the  likelihood  for  substantial  queuing  issues  between  the  intersections 
of  Bayshore/Industrial  and  Industrial/Loomis.  Potential  changes  to  the  intersection  of 
Industrial/Loomis,  including  signalization,  signal  phasing  plans,  and  a  left-turn  pocket  may 
not  be  adequate  to  sufficiently  process  vehicles  and  limit  the  length  of  the  queues.  As  such, 
additional  analysis  of  the  configuration  of  Industrial  Street  and  the  new  traffic  signal  would 
be  necessary,  and  Option  B  may  not  be  considered  feasible. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.  1 7 1 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Results  for  Option  B  -  East 

Table  C&R.12 

jound  Left-Turn  from  Industria 

to  Loomis 

Time  Period 

Volume 

Average 
Queue  Length 

Maximum 
Queue  Length 

Weekday  PM 

Saturday  Midday 

Weekday  Peak  Hour  of  Activity 

330 
540 
400 

120 
195 
145 

180 
340 
295 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  February  2005 
Notes: 

Queue  length  assumes  an  average  of  22  feet  per  vehicle. 

Maximum  Queue  =  95th  percentile  queue,  theoretical  maximum  queue  used  for  design  of  turn 
pockets. 

Volume  includes  existing  and  project-generated  traffic. 
Option  C 

With  Option  C,  the  primary  entrance  and  exit  would  be  from  Loomis  Street,  and  there  would 
be  no  access  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  (only  a  right-turn  out  to  Bayshore 
Boulevard  would  be  provided).  As  such,  the  configuration  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  the 
intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  would  not  change  from  current  conditions. 

Parking:  Option  C  would  allow  for  the  provision  of  about  539  parking  spaces  (including  150 
spaces  on  the  ground  level,  139  spaces  on  the  second  level  and  250  spaces  on  the  third  level), 
which  would  be  the  same  number  of  spaces  as  with  the  proposed  project  (539  spaces).  As 
such,  Option  C  would  provide  sufficient  spaces  to  accommodate  the  maximum  weekday  and 
weekend  parking  demand  (502  spaces  and  539  spaces,  respectively).  However,  assuming  a 
90  percent  effective  capacity  of  the  parking  garage  (which  would  correspond  to  an  effective 
supply  of  485  spaces),  there  would  continue  to  be  a  parking  shortfall  during  the  peak  hours  of 
peak  days. 

Other  Queuing/Design  Issues:  Since  all  inbound  and  outbound  traffic  would  use  Loomis 
Street,  there  would  be  a  substantial  amount  of  activity  at  the  Loomis  Street  driveway.  In 
addition,  since  the  garage  up/down  ramp  would  be  located  at  the  western  end  of  the  site, 
vehicles  would  need  to  transverse  the  entire  width  of  the  parking  garage  in  order  to  access  the 
driveway.  As  a  result,  there  would  be  potential  for  conflicts  between  vehicles  entering  and 
exiting  the  project  site,  turning  into  and  out  of  parking  aisles,  and  attempting  to  access  the 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.172 


July  28, 2005 


W.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


ground  floor  customer  pick-up  area.  In  addition,  the  outbound  driveway  to  Loomis  Street 
would  have  about  90  feet  of  storage  space  per  lane  (180  feet  total),  which  could  accom- 
modate about  eight  vehicles.  Although  there  are  currently  relatively  low  traffic  volumes  on 
Loomis  Street,  the  new  vehicles  turning  into  the  project  site  from  northbound  and  southbound 
Loomis  Street  could  block  vehicles  attempting  to  exit  the  project  site.  As  such,  the  queues 
that  would  form  at  the  exit  driveways  would  likely  extend  past  the  storage  space,  which 
would  substantially  impede  internal  circulation.  However,  these  circulation  concerns  would 
primarily  be  within  the  project  site  and  would  only  have  a  minimal  affect  to  operations  on 
Loomis  Street. 

Since  all  inbound  traffic  would  need  to  access  the  garage  from  Loomis  Street  (with  the 
exception  of  the  secondary  ingress  point  on  Waterloo  Street),  it  would  be  complicated  to 
devise  signage  to  direct  access  to  the  project  site  (since  most  of  the  inbound  traffic  would 
travel  to  the  project  site  on  Bayshore  Boulevard),  and  an  extensive  signage  and  information 
program  would  need  to  be  developed).  As  a  result,  there  may  be  additional  congestion  at  the 
intersections  of  Bayshore/Oakdale  and  Bayshore/Industrial,  since  vehicles  may  drive  past  the 
project  site  and  then  turn  onto  Oakdale  Avenue  or  Industrial  Street  to  access  the  Loomis 
driveway. 

Due  to  the  high  volume  of  traffic  destined  to  the  project  site  from  Industrial  Street  to  Loomis 
Street,  there  would  be  the  likelihood  for  substantial  queuing  issues  between  the  intersections 
of  Bayshore/Industrial  and  Industrial/Loomis.  Potential  changes  to  the  intersection  of 
Industrial/Loomis,  including  signalization,  signal  phasing  plans,  and  a  left-turn  pocket  may 
not  be  adequate  to  sufficiently  process  vehicles  and  limit  the  length  of  the  queues.  As  such, 
additional  analysis  of  the  configuration  of  Industrial  Street  and  the  new  traffic  signal  would 
be  necessary,  and  Option  C  may  not  be  considered  feasible. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.173 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Table  C&R.13 

Results  for  Option  C  -  Eastbound  Left-Turn  from  Industrial  to  Loomis 

Time  Period 

Volume 

Average  Queue 
Length 

Maximum 
Queue  Length 

Weekday  PM 

Saturday  Midday 

Weekday  Peak  Hour  of  Activity 

320 
525 
390 

120 
195 
145 

175 
325 
215 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  February  2005 


Notes: 

Queue  length  assumes  an  average  of  22  feet  per  vehicle. 

Maximum  Queue  =  95th  percentile  queue,  theoretical  maximum  queue  used  for  design  of  turn 
pockets. 

Volume  includes  existing  and  project-generated  traffic. 
Option  D 

With  Option  D,  a  new  southbound  left-turn  would  be  established  from  Bayshore  Boulevard 
to  the  middle  of  the  project  site  (between  the  parking  garage  and  the  store).  This  left-turn 
pocket  would  be  within  the  existing  center  left-turn  median  of  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and 
would  be  located  about  150  feet  north  of  the  Bayshore/Cortland  intersection.  The  new  left- 
turn  movement  would  require  the  establishment  of  a  new  traffic  signal  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  which  would  need  to  be  coordinated  with  the  nearby  traffic  signal  at  Cortland 
Avenue. 


Design  of  Bayshore  Southbound  Left-Turn  Pocket:  For  this  analysis,  it  was  assumed  that  the 
new  traffic  signal  at  the  project  driveway  would  be  coordinated  with  the  nearby  signal  at 
Bayshore/Cortland,  so  that  northbound  and  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  traffic  would  be 
able  to  travel  through  the  two  intersections  with  minimal  delays,  and  the  southbound  left-turn 
phase  would  occur  at  the  same  time  as  the  eastbound  Cortland  Avenue  phase.  With  this 
signalization  plan,  it  was  estimated  that  at  the  southbound  left-turn,  the  maximum  (95th 
percentile)  queue  would  be  about  60  feet  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  85  feet  during 
the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  and  70  feet  during  the  weekday  peak  hour  of  activity.  As 
such,  the  left-turn  pocket  would  need  to  be  about  100  feet  in  length  to  accommodate  the 
theoretical  maximum  queues  that  would  develop. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.174 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Table  C&R.14 

Results  for  Option  D  -  Southbound  Left-Turn  to  Bayshore  Driveway 

Time  Period 

Volume 

Average  Queue 
Length 

Maximum 
Queue  Length 

Weekday  PM 

Saturday  Midday 

Weekday  Peak  Hour  of  Activity 

85 
135 
105 

40 
55 
50 

60 
85 
75 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  February  2005 
Notes: 

Queue  length  assumes  an  average  of  22  feet  per  vehicle. 

Maximum  Queue  =  95th  percentile  queue,  theoretical  maximum  queue  used  for  design  of  turn 
pockets. 


The  establishment  of  the  proposed  left-turn  pocket  would  continue  to  restrict  access  from 
northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  linear  off-street  parking  lot  in  front  of  the  Floorcraft 
Kitchen  Appliance  Center  at  470  Bayshore  Boulevard.  In  addition,  the  pocket  would  affect 
vehicular  access  to  driveways  for  the  businesses  at  418  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  430 
Bayshore  Boulevard.  As  such,  a  northbound  U-turn  pocket  would  need  to  be  created  (as 
previously  discussed  with  the  proposed  project).  This  pocket  would  be  located  directly  north 
of  the  southbound  left-turn  pocket  and  would  allow  U-turns  to  occur  mid-block,  thereby 
reducing  the  effect  on  access  from  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  uses  along  the  west 
side  of  the  street. 

Parking:  Option  D  would  allow  for  the  provision  of  about  523  parking  spaces  (including  134 
spaces  on  the  ground  level,  139  spaces  on  the  second  level  and  250  spaces  on  the  third  level), 
which  would  be  16  spaces  less  than  with  the  proposed  project  (539  spaces).  As  such,  Option 
D  would  almost  provide  sufficient  spaces  to  accommodate  the  maximum  weekday  and 
weekend  parking  demand  (502  spaces  and  539  spaces,  respectively).  Assuming  a  90  percent 
effective  capacity  of  the  parking  garage  (which  would  correspond  to  an  effective  supply  of 
470  spaces),  there  would  continue  to  be  a  parking  shortfall  during  the  peak  hours  of  peak 
days. 

Other  Queuing/Design  Issues:  With  Option  D,  there  would  be  two  adjacent  driveways  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  with  the  northern  driveway  serving  vehicles  leaving  the  store  (right-turn 
only),  and  the  southern  driveway  serving  vehicles  entering  the  store.  Due  to  the  amount  of 
activity  at  this  location  (inbound  and  outbound  traffic,  vehicles  circulating  to  access  the 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.175 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

customer  pick-up  area,  and  nearby  parking  spaces),  there  would  be  queuing  issues  and  the 
potential  for  conflicts  between  vehicles.  The  splitting  of  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  access  into 
separate  ingress  and  egress  driveways  and  the  elimination  of  the  nearby  parking  spaces 
would  improve  operations  and  reduce  the  potential  for  conflicts.  However,  multiple 
driveways  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  worsen  conditions  for  pedestrians,  and  they 
would  have  cross  separate  traffic  streams  at  locations  where  vehicular  traffic  would  be 
uncontrolled.  Overall,  it  is  anticipated  that  Option  D  would  have  a  minimal  affect  to 
operations  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  or  Loomis  Street,  but  could  result  in  difficulties  to  internal 
circulation  and  pedestrians  along  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

Option  E 

With  Option  E,  a  new  southbound  left-turn  would  be  established  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  to 
the  north  end  of  the  project  site.  This  left-turn  pocket  would  be  within  the  existing  median  of 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  would  be  located  mid-block  between  the  intersections  of 
Bayshore/Cortland  and  Bayshore/Oakdale  (about  700  feet  north  of  Cortland  Avenue  and 
about  650  feet  south  of  Oakdale  Avenue).  The  new  left-turn  movement  would  require  the 
establishment  of  a  new  traffic  signal  on  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

Design  of  Bayshore  Southbound  Left-Turn  Pocket:  Since  the  new  driveway  would  be  located 
a  relatively  long  distance  between  the  intersections  of  Bayshore/Cortland  and 
Bayshore/Oakdale  (about  700  feet  and  650  feet  respectively),  the  new  traffic  signal  would  not 
need  to  be  coordinated  with  the  other  signals.  However,  sufficient  pedestrian  crossing  time 
would  need  to  be  provided  to  allow  pedestrians  to  safely  cross  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Overall, 
it  was  estimated  that  at  the  southbound  left-turn,  the  maximum  (95th  percentile)  queue  would 
be  about  70  feet  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  100  feet  during  the  Saturday  midday 
peak  hour,  and  85  feet  during  the  weekday  peak  hour  of  activity.  As  such,  the  left-tum 
pocket  would  need  to  be  about  100  feet  in  length  to  accommodate  the  theoretical  maximum 
queues  that  would  develop. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.176 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Table  C&R.15 
Results  for  Option  E  -  Southbound  Left-r 

"urn  to  Bayshore 

Driveway 

Time  Period 

Volume 

Average  Queue 
Length 

Maximum 
Queue  Length 

Weekday  PM 

Saturday  Midday 

Weekday  Peak  Hour  of  Activity 

95 
155 
120 

45 
65 
55 

70 

100 

85 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  February  2005 
Notes: 

Queue  length  assumes  an  average  of  22  feet  per  vehicle. 

Maximum  Queue  =  95th  percentile  queue,  theoretical  maximum  queue  used  for  design  of  turn 
pockets. 


At  the  location  where  the  proposed  left-turn  pocket  would  be  located,  the  center  median  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard  is  currently  a  fixed  solid  median  (left-turns  are  not  possible).  As  such, 
the  establishment  of  the  left-turn  pocket  would  not  restrict  access  to  any  business 
establishments  on  the  east  side  of  the  street. 

However,  on  the  west  side  of  the  street,  there  are  driveways  for  the  Jack-in-the-Box 
restaurant  at  370  Bayshore  Boulevard  which  are  located  directly  across  from  the  north  end  of 
the  project  site  and  would  be  situated  in  the  middle  of  the  new  signalized  intersection  that 
would  be  created  with  the  option's  main  driveway.  As  such,  access  to  the  Jack-in-the-Box 
driveways  would  be  restricted  with  Option  E,  otherwise  there  would  be  the  potential  for 
conflicts  between  vehicles  entering  and  exiting  the  project  site  and  the  Jack-in-the-Box.  With 
the  proposed  plan  for  Option  E,  access  to  the  Jack-in-the-Box  would  be  limited  to  a  right-turn 
in  only  and  a  right-turn  out  only  (to  and  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard).  Vehicles 
destined  to  and  from  the  Jack-in-the-Box  from  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  need 
to  make  U-turns  within  the  center  left-turn  median  (U-turns  can  be  made  to  both  the  north 
and  south  of  the  restaurant  site).  As  a  result,  Option  E  would  limit  access  to  the  Jack-in-the- 
Box,  and  additional  coordination  with  the  property  owners  would  be  necessary. 

Parking:  Option  E  would  allow  for  the  provision  of  about  555  parking  spaces  (including  182 
spaces  on  the  ground  level,  1 19  spaces  on  the  second  level  and  254  spaces  on  the  third  level), 
which  would  be  16  spaces  more  than  with  the  proposed  project  (539  spaces).  As  such, 
Option  E  would  provide  sufficient  spaces  to  accommodate  the  maximum  weekday  and 
weekend  parking  demand  (502  spaces  and  539  spaces,  respectively).  However,  assuming  a 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.  1 77 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

90  percent  effective  capacity  of  the  parking  garage  (which  would  correspond  to  an  effective 
supply  of  500  spaces),  there  would  continue  to  be  a  parking  shortfall  during  the  peak  hours  of 
peak  days. 

Other  Queuing/Design  Issues:  With  Option  E,  two  driveways  would  be  provided  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard:  a  right-turn  in/right-turn  out  driveway  for  northbound  traffic  at  the 
southern  end  of  the  garage,  and  a  partial  driveway  (with  all  movements  allowed  except  left- 
turns  from  the  project  site  to  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard)  at  the  northern  end  of  the 
garage.  The  southern  driveway  would  be  designed  so  that  vehicles  would  not  be  able  to  turn 
left  to  or  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  northern  driveway  would  have  over 
250  feet  of  queuing  space  between  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  the  garage  up/down  ramp,  which 
would  be  sufficient  space  to  accommodate  queues  that  would  form  at  the  entrance  and  exit. 
As  such,  it  is  anticipated  that  Option  E  would  have  a  minimal  affect  to  operations  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard. 

As  part  of  the  reconfiguration  of  the  access  with  Option  E,  the  loading  facilities  would  be 
relocated  to  the  southern  end  of  the  project  site.  With  this  location,  delivery  vehicles  would 
enter  the  loading  area  from  Waterloo  Street  and  exit  onto  Loomis  Street  (as  compared  to 
entering  from  Loomis  Street  and  exiting  to  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  with  the 
proposed  project).  Delivery  vehicles  entering  the  loading  area  would  access  Waterloo  Street 
from  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard,  whereas  vehicles  exiting  the  loading  area  would  turn 
left  onto  northbound  Loomis  Street  to  access  Oakdale  Avenue  and  Bayshore  Boulevard.  As 
such,  it  would  be  somewhat  more  convenient  for  delivery  vehicles  to  travel  between  the  U.S. 
101  on-  and  off-ramps  at  Industrial/Alemany  and  the  project  site  as  compared  to  with  the 
project. 

Option  E  would  also  establish  a  pedestrian  crosswalk  on  the  south  side  of  the  new 
intersection  at  the  project  driveway.  Since  the  existing  intersections  of  Bayshore/Oakdale 
and  Bayshore/Cortland  are  about  1,350  feet  apart,  this  new  crosswalk  would  enhance 
pedestrian  circulation  in  the  area.  However,  with  the  standard  signalization  plan  for  the 
intersection,  southbound  traffic  would  not  need  to  stop.  As  such,  to  accommodate  pedestrian 
travel,  a  separate  pedestrian  phase  would  need  to  be  established  (with  pedestrian  actuation), 
which  (when  activated)  would  result  in  minor  delays  to  southbound  traffic.  However,  since 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.178 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

there  would  be  no  left-turn  from  the  project  site  to  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard,  there 
would  be  no  conflicts  with  pedestrian  crossings. 

Option  F 

With  Option  F,  a  new  southbound  left-turn  would  be  established  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  to 
the  north  end  of  the  project  site.  This  left-turn  pocket  would  be  within  the  existing  median  of 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  would  be  located  mid-block  between  the  intersections  of 
Bayshore/Cortland  and  Bayshore/Oakdale  (about  700  feet  north  of  Cortland  Avenue  and 
about  650  feet  south  of  Oakdale  Avenue).  The  new  left-turn  movement  would  require  the 
establishment  of  a  new  traffic  signal  on  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

Design  of  Bayshore  Southbound  Left-Turn  Pocket:  Since  the  new  driveway  would  be  located 
a  relatively  long  distance  between  the  intersections  of  Bayshore/Cortland  and  Bayshore/ 
Oakdale  (about  700  feet  and  650  feet  respectively),  the  new  traffic  signal  would  not  need  to 
be  coordinated  with  the  other  signals.  However,  sufficient  pedestrian  crossing  time  would 
need  to  be  provided  to  allow  pedestrians  to  safely  cross  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Overall,  it  was 
estimated  that  at  the  southbound  left-turn,  the  maximum  (95th  percentile)  queue  would  be 
about  75  feet  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  125  feet  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak 
hour,  and  95  feet  during  the  weekday  peak  hour  of  activity.  As  such,  the  left-turn  pocket 
would  need  to  be  about  125  feet  in  length  to  accommodate  the  theoretical  maximum  queues 
that  would  develop. 


Table  C&R.16 

Results  for  Option  F-  Southbound  Left-Turn  to  Bayshore  Driveway 

Time  Period 

Volume 

Average  Queue 
Length 

Maximum  Queue 
Length 

Weekday  PM 

Saturday  Midday 

Weekday  Peak  Hour  of  Activity 

95 
155 
120 

50 
80 
65 

75 
125 
95 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  February  2005 


Notes: 

Queue  length  assumes  an  average  of  22  feet  per  vehicle. 

Maximum  Queue  =  95th  percentile  queue,  theoretical  maximum  queue  used  for  design  of  turn 
pockets. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.179 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

At  the  location  where  the  proposed  left-turn  pocket  would  be  located,  the  center  median  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard  is  currently  a  fixed  solid  median  (left-turns  are  not  possible).  As  such, 
the  establishment  of  the  left-turn  pocket  would  not  restrict  access  to  any  business 
establishments  on  the  east  side  of  the  street. 

However,  on  the  west  side  of  the  street,  there  are  driveways  for  the  Jack-in-the-Box 
restaurant  at  370  Bayshore  Boulevard  which  are  located  directly  across  from  the  north  end  of 
the  project  site  and  would  be  situated  in  the  middle  of  the  new  signalized  intersection  that 
would  be  created  with  the  option's  main  driveway.  As  such,  access  to  the  Jack-in-the-Box 
driveways  would  be  restricted  with  Option  F,  otherwise  there  would  be  the  potential  for 
conflicts  between  vehicles  entering  and  exiting  the  project  site  and  the  Jack-in-the-Box.  With 
the  proposed  plan  for  Option  F,  access  to  the  Jack-in-the-Box  would  be  limited  to  a  right-turn 
in  only  and  a  right-turn  out  only  (to  and  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard).  Vehicles 
destined  to  and  from  the  Jack-in-the-Box  from  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  need 
to  make  U-turns  within  the  center  left-turn  median  (U-turns  can  be  made  to  both  the  north 
and  south  of  the  restaurant  site).  As  a  result,  Option  F  would  limit  access  to  the  Jack-in-the- 
Box,  and  additional  coordination  with  the  property  owners  would  be  necessary. 

Parking:  Option  F  would  allow  for  the  provision  of  about  555  parking  spaces  (including  182 
spaces  on  the  ground  level,  1 19  spaces  on  the  second  level  and  254  spaces  on  the  third  level), 
which  would  be  about  16  spaces  more  than  with  the  proposed  project  (539  spaces).  As  such, 
Option  F  would  provide  sufficient  spaces  to  accommodate  the  maximum  weekday  and 
weekend  parking  demand  (502  spaces  and  539  spaces,  respectively).  However,  assuming  a 
90  percent  effective  capacity  of  the  parking  garage  (which  would  correspond  to  an  effective 
supply  of  500  spaces),  there  would  continue  to  be  a  parking  shortfall  during  the  peak  hours  of 
peak  days. 

Other  Queuing/Design  Issues:  With  Option  F,  two  driveways  would  be  provided  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard:  a  right-turn  in/right-turn  out  driveway  for  northbound  traffic  at  the 
southern  end  of  the  garage,  and  a  full  driveway  (with  all  movements  allowed)  at  the  northern 
end  of  the  garage.  The  southern  driveway  would  be  designed  so  that  vehicles  would  not  be 
able  to  turn  left  to  or  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  northern  driveway  would 
have  over  250  feet  of  storage  space  between  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  the  garage  up/down 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.180 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

ramp,  which  would  be  sufficient  storage  space  to  accommodate  queues  that  would  form  at 
the  entrance  and  exit.  As  such,  it  is  anticipated  that  Option  F  would  have  a  minimal  affect  to 
operations  on  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

As  part  of  the  reconfiguration  of  the  access  with  Option  F,  the  loading  facilities  would  be 
relocated  to  the  southern  end  of  the  project  site.  With  this  location,  delivery  vehicles  would 
enter  the  loading  area  from  Waterloo  Street  and  exit  to  Loomis  Street  (as  compared  to 
entering  from  Loomis  Street  and  exiting  to  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  with  the 
proposed  project).  Delivery  vehicles  entering  the  loading  area  would  access  Waterloo  Street 
from  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard,  whereas  vehicles  exiting  the  loading  area  would  turn 
left  onto  northbound  Loomis  Street  to  access  Oakdale  Avenue  and  Bayshore  Boulevard.  As 
such,  it  would  be  somewhat  more  convenient  for  delivery  vehicles  to  travel  between  the  U.S. 
101  on-  and  off-ramps  at  Industrial/Alemany  and  the  project  site  as  compared  to  with  the 
project. 

Option  F  would  also  establish  a  pedestrian  crosswalk  on  the  south  side  of  the  new 
intersection  at  the  project  driveway.  Since  the  existing  intersections  of  Bayshore/Oakdale 
and  Bayshore/Cortland  are  about  1,350  feet  apart,  this  new  crosswalk  would  enhance 
pedestrian  circulation  in  the  area.  It  is  anticipated  that  pedestrians  would  be  able  to  cross 
during  the  westbound  signal  phase  (i.e.,  when  vehicles  would  exit  the  project  site).  However, 
since  vehicles  would  be  able  to  turn  left  from  the  project  site  to  southbound  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  there  would  be  the  potential  for  vehicular/pedestrian  conflicts  at  the  new 
crosswalk.  To  address  this  issue,  it  would  be  necessary  to  provide  an  exclusive  pedestrian 
walk  phase  (with  pedestrian  actuation).  However,  when  activated,  the  pedestrian  signal 
would  result  in  increased  vehicular  delays  and  the  potential  for  longer  queues  to  develop  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard  and  the  project  driveways. 

CONCLUSIONS 

Based  on  the  analyses  of  intersection  operating  conditions  and  the  detailed  assessments  of 
design,  queuing  and  parking,  Option  A  would  have  the  least  potential  for  new  significant 
impacts  or  substantial  effects  to  the  adjacent  transportation  network.  Options  B  and  C  would 
require  signalization  of  the  Industrial/Loomis  intersection  which  may  not  be  feasible,  and  it 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.181 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

would  be  complicated  to  devise  a  signage  plan  since  the  main  ingress  would  be  on  Loomis 
Street.  Option  D  would  require  a  new  traffic  signal  about  150  feet  north  of  the  intersection  of 
Bayshore/Loomis  which  may  be  difficult  to  coordinate,  would  have  internal  vehicular  issues, 
and  would  result  in  worse  conditions  for  pedestrians  along  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Options  E 
and  F  would  result  in  limited  access  to  the  Jack-in-the-Box  restaurant  at  370  Bayshore 
Boulevard.  Comparing  Options  E  and  F,  Option  F  would  allow  for  improved  vehicular 
access  from  the  project  site  (since  the  left-turn  to  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  be 
permitted),  but  would  require  a  pedestrian  actuation  at  the  new  crosswalk  to  the  south  of  the 
Bayshore  Boulevard  driveway. 

Planning  Department  staffs  and  the  project  sponsor  have  determined  that  Option  F  would  be 
the  preferred  project  configuration. 

Local  Circulation 

Comment  #75 

"Page  42  [of  the  DEIR:]  Please  explain  the  extremely  limited  access  to  Bernal  Heights,  particularly 
from  the  east,  southeast,  and  south,  including  that  Cortland  is  the  only  street  that  goes  from  Mission 
to  Bayshore,  that,  north  of  Cortland,  the  only  realistic  way  off  Bernal  Hill  is  'going  over  the  hill' 
through  narrow  residential  streets,  to  access  Folsom  Street.  That  access  to  Alemany  and  the  freeway 
interchange  near  this  site  is  down  Crescent  which,  on  Saturdays,  goes  right  through  the  Farmers 
Market.  That,  if  people  on  Bernal  can't  go  east  to  get  off  the  hill,  they  will  have  to  figure  out  ways  of 
going  west,  to  Mission  Street  and/or  north  to  Cesar  Chavez  to  get  to  any  place  on  the  eastern  side  or 
northeastern  side  of  the  City,  or  access  to  the  east  bay."  {Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf 
of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #75 

Access  to  Bernal  Heights  is  limited.  Cortland  Avenue  is  one  of  the  few  east/west  streets  in 
the  area,  and  connects  Mission  Street  and  Bayshore  Boulevard.  In  addition,  Cesar  Chavez 
Street  to  the  north  of  Bernal  Heights  and  Alemany  Boulevard,  Crescent  Avenue,  and  Silver 
Avenue  to  the  south  of  Bernal  Heights  are  major  roadways  that  serve  as  primary  east/west 
arterials  in  the  area.  In  addition,  many  of  the  side  streets  in  the  area  are  narrow  and  have 
steep  grades. 

The  increase  in  vehicles  on  Cortland  Avenue  as  a  result  of  the  proposed  project  would 
include  a  portion  of  the  trips  from  customers  in  the  Glen  Park,  Diamond  Heights,  Balboa 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.182 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Park  and  outer  Noe  Valley  neighborhoods  (which  represent  13  percent  of  the  total  store 
activity). 

The  project  would  not  add  a  substantial  amount  of  traffic  to  Cortland  Avenue  -  about  106 
vehicles  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  159  vehicles  during  the  Saturday  midday 
peak  hour.  While  the  additional  vehicles  would  result  in  minor  increases  in  delays  along 
Cortland  Avenue,  it  is  not  anticipated  that  this  increase  would  substantially  affect  overall 
access  through  the  Bernal  Heights  area. 

Comment  #76 

"Page  50  [of  the  DEIR:]  Cortland  traffic  is  impeded  by  current  Muni  movements.  The  24  bus  goes 
up  substantial  hills  on  the  east  and  west  slopes.  Cars  get  stuck  behind  the  bus  when  it  picks  up/drops 
off  passengers.  In  many  instances,  it  is  impossible  to  pull  around  the  bus,  and  it  may  even  be 
dangerous  because  of  obstructed  views.  As  traffic  increases  and  slows  down,  the  buses  will  also 
slow  down.  The  traffic  calming  study  is  partially  intended  to  slow  down  traffic  to  allow  pedestrians 
to  safely  cross  Cortland."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

"Bernal  Heights  is  densely  populated  and  suffers  traffic  congestion,  so  much  that  a  Traffic  Calming 
Committee  (sponsored,  I  believe,  by  [Department  of  Public  Works  (DPW)])  has  been  addressing  this 
problem  for  a  year  or  more.  Cortland  Avenue  is  two  narrow  lanes,  often  blocked  by  trucks,  double 
parkers,  etc.  This  street  cannot  absorb  the  estimated  1,200  cars  per  hour  on  their  way  to  Home 
Depot.  Drivers  will  inevitably  try  to  use  side  streets,  but  in  this  case,  to  no  avail.  Bernal  streets  are 
very  narrow  and  in  many  cases  two  cars  cannot  pass  -  someone  has  to  back  up  [or]  pull  over.  There 
will  be  total  gridlock  on  Cortland.  To  make  matters  worse  Home  Depot  shoppers  typically  will  drive 
their  largest  and  most  polluting  vehicles,  i.e.,  SUVs  and  trucks.  Bernal  Heights  will  be  suffocated. 
So  much  for  Traffic  Calming."  (Eleanor  Vinsant,  Resident) 

Response  #76 

Cortland  Avenue  is  a  two-lane  roadway,  with  one  travel  lane  in  each  direction  and  on-street 
parking  on  both  sides  of  the  street.  Currently,  one  Muni  bus  line  operates  on  Cortland 
Avenue,  the  24-Divisadero,  which  operates  with  8-  to  15-minute  headways  on  weekdays  and 
15-  to  20-minute  headways  on  weekends.  These  headways  correspond  to  four  to  eight  buses 
per  hour  on  weekdays,  and  three  to  four  buses  per  hour  on  weekends.  Although  buses 
stopping  along  Cortland  Avenue  temporarily  affect  traffic  flow  on  the  street,  they  do  not 
substantially  affect  operations  along  the  street  due  to  the  relatively  infrequent  bus  service  and 
generally  low  traffic  volumes.  Any  interruptions  to  traffic  flow  are  temporary  in  nature  and 
do  not  impact  overall  roadway  operating  conditions. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.183 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

The  anticipated  increase  in  traffic  associated  with  the  project  along  Cortland  Avenue  (about 
106  vehicles  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  159  vehicles  during  the  Saturday  midday 
peak  hour)  would  not  substantially  worsen  operating  conditions.  At  the  study  intersections  of 
Cortland/ Andover  and  Cortland/Folsom,  the  project  would  result  in  only  a  minor  increase  in 
the  average  delay  per  vehicle  at  the  Cortland  Avenue  approaches.  As  such,  the  project  would 
not  result  in  a  substantial  decrease  in  travel  speeds  or  a  substantial  increase  in  travel  times  or 
delays  to  Muni  operations  along  Cortland  Avenue. 

See  Response  to  Comment  #54  regarding  the  South  Bernal  Heights  Traffic  Calming  Study. 
See  Response  to  Comment  #70  regarding  pedestrian  conditions  on  Cortland  Avenue. 


Bayshore  Boulevard 

Comment  #77 

"Proposed  Redesign  of  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  entire  roadway  section  of  Bayshore  Boulevard 
between  Industrial  and  Oakdale  will  be  affected  by  this  project.  The  project  does  not  adequately 
address  the  access  and  operational  impacts  of  the  proposed  mitigations  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The 
installation  of  a  raised  median  on  Bayshore  may  not  be  feasible  because  of  property  access  issues, 
design  problems,  and  the  increased  number  of  U-turns.  These  issues  should  be  studied  by  the  City, 
and  a  final  plan  should  be  developed."  (Charles  M.  Abrams,  President,  Abrams  Associates) 

"Additional  discussion  and  analysis  of  the  project  design  is  warranted.  Access  to  the  parking  areas, 
the  truck  entry,  and  the  traffic  on  Bayshore,  Loomis,  Oakdale,  and  Boutwell  contribute  to  the 
potential  traffic  congestion  issues.  The  addition  of  a  U-turn  lane  on  Bayshore  will  create  traffic 
congestion  of  vehicles  leaving  the  project  garage  and  crossing  traffic  to  utilize  the  U-turn  and  of 
vehicles  that  may  make  the  U-turn  to  head  north. 

"Improvements  to  Bayshore  do  not  address  access  to  other  Bayshore  businesses.  The  vehicle  access 
to  and  from  the  project  does  not  provide  access  to  neighboring  businesses.  Vehicles  will  be  directed 
to  the  project  and  away  from  the  project.  Improvements  to  Bayshore  do  not  include  pedestrian 
access  to  neighboring  businesses.  (Shelly  Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President) 

"Secondly,  with  respect  to  Bayshore,  if  you  hate  the  backups  now,  particularly  when  80  has  bad 
traffic,  or  when  the  CHP  kills  a  suspect  off  the  80,  as  they  did  two  years  ago,  and  have  traffic  backed 
up  all  the  way  to  3Com,  that  makes  it  impossible  to  have  a  big-box  store  with  all  of  these  problems 
that  are  associated  with  the  traffic,  with  respect  to  the  Bayshore  corridor  traffic  at  commute  times." 
(Gil  Payne,  Resident) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.184 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Response  #77 

The  DEIR  evaluated  traffic  conditions  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  between  Industrial  Street 
and  Oakdale  Avenue,  including  the  analysis  of  the  intersections  of  Bayshore/Industrial, 
Bayshore/Cortland,  and  Bayshore/Oakdale.  In  addition,  the  inter-sections  of  Loomis/ 
Oakdale  and  Loomis/Industrial  were  evaluated  (the  effect  of  project  traffic  on  Boutwell 
Street  was  assessed  as  part  of  the  intersection  of  Loomis/Industrial,  where  Boutwell  Street  is 
the  south  leg  of  the  intersection).  The  additional  traffic  associated  with  the  project  could  be 
accommodated  on  the  roadway  network,  and  no  additional  mitigation  or  improvement 
measures,  over  and  above  those  changes  proposed  with  the  project,  would  be  required. 
However,  as  indicated  by  the  commenter,  when  extreme  incidents  occur  on  1-80,  congestion 
may  spill  back  to  U.S.  101,  which  may  result  in  traffic  from  U.S.  101  diverting  to  Bayshore 
Boulevard.  The  proposed  project  traffic  would  also  add  to  traffic  congestion  when  incidents 
on  U.S.  101  affect  Bayshore  Boulevard  operations,  but  this  would  not  represent  a  significant 
traffic  impact.  The  project  would  establish  a  southbound  left-turn  pocket  from  Bayshore 
Boulevard  to  the  garage  entrance  at  Bayshore/Cortland.  This  left-turn  pocket  would  need  to 
be  about  180  feet  long  to  accommodate  the  maximum  queues  waiting  to  enter  the  project  site. 
Since  the  pocket  would  be  established  within  the  existing  center  two-way  left-turning  lane, 
vehicular  access  from  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  parking  lot  on  the  west  side  of 
Bayshore  Boulevard  for  the  business  at  470  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  be  affected.  To 
maintain  continual  access  to  this  business,  a  U-turn  pocket  would  be  established  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard  northbound  directly  north  of  the  southbound  left-turn  pocket.  Since  vehicles 
leaving  the  project  would  be  able  to  turn  left  to  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  from  the 
main  access  at  Bayshore/Cortland,  and  a  northbound  left-turn  pocket  is  already  provided  at 
the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland,  only  vehicles  destined  to  the  business  at  470  Bayshore 
Boulevard  are  anticipated  to  use  the  proposed  northbound  U-turn  pocket.  The  design  for  the 
southbound  left-turn  pocket  and  the  northbound  U-turn  pocket  have  not  yet  been  finalized; 
however,  it  is  anticipated  that  the  two  pockets  would  be  separated  by  a  narrow  median  (a 
conceptual  plan  of  the  turn  pockets  is  illustrated  on  Figure  12,  page  63  of  the  DEIR),  and  that 
the  northbound  U-turn  pocket  would  be  located  north  of  the  driveway  access  to  the  business 
at  470  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  project  sponsor  would  work  with  the  appropriate  City 
agencies  (including  the  Planning  Department  and  DPT)  to  determine  the  final  design  of  these 
changes.  Access  to  other  properties  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  not  be  affected  by 
these  proposed  changes  to  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

200 1.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.185  July  28,2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


The  existing  left-turn  pocket  from  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  westbound  Cortland 
Avenue  that  currently  allows  for  U-turns  would  be  retained;  however,  the  pocket  would  be 
lengthened  to  between  210  and  280  feet  as  part  of  the  proposed  project.  The  project  sponsor 
would  work  with  the  appropriate  City  agencies  to  determine  the  final  design  of  these 
changes. 

Comment  #78 

The  project's  design  does  not  adequately  address  the  traffic  patterns  that  will  result  from  the  project. 
In  paragraph  3  on  page  5,  additional  discussion  and  analysis  is  needed  relative  to  the  average  queues. 
The  proposed  left-turn  pocket  should  be  analyzed  based  on  peak  traffic  conditions  to  the  project." 
(Shelley  Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President) 

Response  #78 

The  queuing  analysis  is  presented  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  65  through  68  (page  5  contains  only 
a  summary  of  the  analysis).  At  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland,  estimated  queue 
lengths  were  determined  for  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  and 
weekday  peak  hour  of  trip  generation.  The  design  and  configuration  of  the  proposed 
improvements  at  the  intersection  were  based  on  the  results  of  this  analysis. 

At  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland,  the  new  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  left-turn 
pocket  would  be  180  feet  long  and  would  be  designed  to  accommodate  the  theoretical 
maximum  queue  length  (95th  percentile)  that  would  develop  at  this  location.  In  addition,  the 
northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  left-turn  pocket  would  be  extended  by  at  least  70  feet  (to  a 
length  of  at  least  210  feet)  to  accommodate  the  theoretical  maximum  queue  at  this  location. 
These  queue  lengths,  and  the  associated  lengths  of  the  left-turn  pockets,  were  based  on  the 
traffic  volumes  anticipated  for  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  and 
weekday  peak  hour  of  activity. 

Comment  #79 

"The  project  design  shows  the  parking  ramps  near  the  Waterloo  Street  vehicle  access.  Further 
analysis  is  needed  to  determine  if  this  will  contribute  to  traffic  congestion  on  Waterloo,  thus  creating 
traffic  problems  on  Bayshore  and/or  Cortland  Street.  The  project  design  will  add  to  the  traffic 
problems  by  virtue  of  the  layout  of  the  parking  garage  access  and  the  truck  entry  off  of  Waterloo. 
More  analysis  should  be  given  to  a  design  that  provides  better  traffic  flow  to  and  from  the  project 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.186 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

area,  with  improvement  conditions  made  by  the  project  sponsor  to  prevent  traffic  jams  into  the 
project."  (Shelley  Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President) 

Response  #79 

The  primary  purpose  of  the  driveway  on  Waterloo  Street  is  to  provide  access  to  the 
approximately  31  parking  spaces  on  the  ground  level  of  the  garage  that  would  be  located 
underneath  the  up/down  ramp;  however,  the  driveway  would  also  allow  vehicles  to  access  the 
remainder  of  the  parking  garage.  The  driveway  would  be  located  mid-block  between 
Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Loomis  Street,  about  100  feet  east  of  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Due  to 
its  location  and  limited  visibility,  it  was  estimated  that  few  customers  would  use  this 
driveway  (about  10  during  the  peak  hours).  There  is  only  one  other  business  (the  Bayshore 
Builders  Supply)  that  currently  has  access  via  Waterloo  Street  as  well  as  via  Loomis  Street. 
As  a  result,  it  is  anticipated  that  there  would  be  few  issues  with  congestion  on  Waterloo 
Street,  and  limited  potential  for  queues  to  spill  back  onto  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

The  project's  delivery/unloading  area  would  be  located  along  the  northern  portion  of  the 
project  site.  The  entrance  to  the  loading  area  would  be  from  Loomis  Street,  not  Waterloo 
Street,  with  the  exit  onto  Bayshore  Boulevard  (right-turn  out  only). 

The  project,  as  analyzed  in  the  DEIR,  includes  the  Loomis  Street  driveway,  which  would 
provide  both  inbound  and  outbound  access.  It  is  anticipated  that  this  driveway  would  be  used 
primarily  by  vehicles  traveling  to  and  from  Oakdale  Avenue,  Industrial  Street,  and  Alemany 
Boulevard/U.S.  101  northbound  off-ramp  (to  Industrial  Street). 


Freeway  Ramps 

Comment  #80 

"Level  of  Service  Degradations  for  Freeway  On-Ramps  Unacceptable.  The  Transportation  Study 
shows  that,  if  the  Home  Depot  is  built,  in  the  very  near  future  (year  2015),  the  five  freeway  on-ramps 
will  degrade  to  LOS  F.  And  this  cannot  be  mitigated.  The  study  concludes,  '...no  feasible  mitigation 
measures  to  improve  operations  of  the  freeway  mainline-ramp  junction  have  been  identified,  and  the 
Proposed  project's  significant  contribution  to  the  on-ramp  conditions  would  be  considered  a 
significant  unavoidable  impact.'1  We  believe  that  this  impact  should  provide  the  Planning 
Commission  with  an  overriding  concern  about  the  negative  effects  of  this  project  on  the  surrounding 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.187 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

area."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and 
Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  Transportation  Study,  page  4-25. 

"Traffic  safety  is  at  risk,  especially  freeway  off-ramps,  a  cost  Home  Depot  will  not  address."  (Jean 
Fontana,  Resident) 

"Freeway  on-ramps  that  are  currently  graded  C  will  all  go  to  F  by  2015.  One  on-ramp  is  already  at  F, 
so  it  will  worsen  too  but  is  already  at  the  worst  grade  now.  This  EIR  does  not  take  into  account  the 
cumulative  effect  of  potentially  more  large  development  on  this  corridor. 

"There  was  no  study  of  the  off-ramps  in  the  area  and  how  the  increased  traffic  on  the  street  will 
affect  those.  Will  this  back  up  onto  the  freeways  themselves?"  (Nic  Griffin,  Resident) 

"The  DEIR  recognizes  other  very  significant  congestion  impacts,  particularly  that  five  freeway 
access  ramps  will  become  unacceptably  congested.  This  basically  constitutes  all  of  the  freeway 
access  ramps  from  this  portion  of  the  City.  This  means  that  people  in  this  area  will  no  longer  have 
even  relatively  uncongested  access  to  the  freeways.  This  seems  like  a  very  significant  impact  as  well 
that  is  not  mentioned."  (Amy  D.  Kyle,  Ph.D.,  M.P.H.,  Resident) 

Response  #80 

As  presented  in  the  DEIR  on  page  61,  with  the  project,  the  operating  conditions  of  the  study 
freeway  on-ramps  would  not  change  over  existing  conditions,  and  the  project  would  not  have 
a  significant  impact  on  freeway  on-ramp  conditions.  It  should  be  noted  that  under  existing 
conditions,  there  are  frequent  queues  on  the  northbound  U.S.  101  off-ramp  to  Bay  shore/Cesar 
Chavez,  and  queues  during  the  weekday  AM  peak  hour  on  the  northbound  1-280  off-ramp  to 
Alemany  Boulevard. 

By  2015,  however,  it  was  determined  that  the  five  analysis  freeway  on-ramps  would  operate 
at  LOS  F  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  (one  of  which  already  operates  at  LOS  F  under 
existing  conditions),  as  noted  on  page  77  of  the  DEIR.  In  addition,  two  of  the  on-ramps 
would  operate  at  LOS  F  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (one  of  which  already 
operates  at  LOS  F  under  existing  conditions). 

In  general,  the  operations  of  freeway  on-ramps  are  dictated  by  the  mainline  freeway  volumes, 
not  the  on-ramp  volumes.  As  such,  the  poor  operating  2015  Cumulative  operating  conditions 
would  primarily  be  a  result  of  the  anticipated  increase  in  traffic  volumes  on  U.S.  101  and 
1-280.  The  increase  in  traffic  volumes  along  the  on-ramps  and  the  freeway  mainlines  takes 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.188 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

into  account  the  anticipated  growth  in  traffic  throughout  the  study  area,  including  the 
proposed  project. 

It  was  determined  that  the  project  would  have  a  significant  contribution  to  the  poor  operating 
conditions  at  all  study  freeway  on-ramps  that  would  operate  at  LOS  F  under  2015 
Cumulative  conditions  since  the  project  would  contribute  more  than  five  percent  to  the 
increase  in  freeway  on-ramp  volumes  at  each  location  (project  contribution  to  growth  in 
volumes  between  existing  and  2015  Cumulative  conditions  would  range  from  15  to  59 
percent).  However,  since  the  operating  conditions  are  primarily  dictated  by  the  freeway 
mainline  traffic  volumes,  additional  freeway  mainline  capacity  would  be  needed  on  U.S.  101 
and  1-280  to  alleviate  the  poor  operating  conditions.  As  a  result,  the  project's  significant 
contribution  to  the  on-ramp  conditions  would  be  considered  a  significant  unavoidable  impact. 

In  general,  the  operations  of  freeway  off-ramps  are  dictated  by  the  operations  of  adjacent 
and/or  controlling  intersections.  As  such,  the  operations  of  these  off-ramps  were  included  in 
the  analysis  of  the  adjacent  study  intersections.  Most  of  these  intersections  were  included  as 
study  intersections  in  the  DEIR,  and  no  project-related  significant  impacts  were  identified. 
For  the  off-ramps  that  are  not  located  adjacent  to  study  intersections,  a  qualitative  assessment 
of  off-ramp  operations  was  conducted  based  on  field  observations  of  mainline  and  off-ramp 
conditions  during  the  analysis  periods.  In  general,  these  locations  were  observed  to  be 
operating  with  acceptable  conditions  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  the  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour,  with  relatively  short  queues  that  did  not  extend  back  to  the  freeway 
mainline. 

Based  on  the  origin/destination  of  the  trips  generated  by  the  project,  it  was  estimated  that  the 
project  would  add  about  270  vehicles  to  northbound/southbound  U.S.  101  and 
eastbound/westbound  1-280  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  and  400  vehicles  during  the 
Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  These  additional  project-related  vehicles  would  be  distributed 
among  the  on-ramps  and  off-ramps  serving  the  project  site,  and  would  not  result  in  a 
substantial  increase  in  off-ramp  traffic  volumes.  As  a  result,  the  proposed  project  would  not 
likely  have  a  significant  impact  on  traffic  operations  and  safety  conditions  on  the  freeway 
ramps. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.189 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Comment  #81 

"The  freeway  exits  are  too  small  and  will  clog  the  freeway  more  than  the  report  suggests,  particularly 
northbound  101  and  southbound  280."  (Amy  C.  Miller  and  Virginia  Bowen,  Residents) 

Response  #8 1 

All  off-ramps  for  U.S.  101  and  1-280  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site  were  designed  to  meet 
the  Caltrans  standards  at  the  time  of  construction. 

Vehicle-trips  coming  to  the  project  site  via  the  regional  highway  network  would  primarily  be 
on  U.S.  101  northbound  (and  use  the  Alemany/Industrial  off-ramp)  or  1-280  northbound  (and 
use  the  Alemany  off-ramp).  The  project  would  contribute  34  and  55  vehicles  during  the 
weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hours,  respectively,  to  the  1-280  northbound  off- 
ramp  at  Alemany,  and  66  and  106  vehicles  during  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday 
peak  hours,  respectively,  to  the  U.S.  101  off-ramp  at  Alemany/Industrial.  The  intersection  of 
Alemany/Industrial  controls  the  operations  of  the  ramp,  and  this  intersection  would  continue 
to  operate  at  acceptable  levels  (LOS  D  or  better)  during  both  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday 
midday  peak  hours.  Field  observations  have  indicated  that  the  1-280  northbound  ramp 
currently  has  sufficient  storage  capacity  to  accommodate  the  additional  34  to  55  vehicles  per 
hour.  In  addition,  the  downstream  intersection  of  Alemany/Putman/U.S.  101  southbound  off- 
ramp  is  projected  to  operate  at  acceptable  levels  of  LOS  D  or  better  with  and  without  the 
proposed  project.  It  is  not  anticipated  that  many  project  trips  would  use  1-280  southbound 
north  of  the  project  site,  and  instead  customers  from  the  northeast  portion  of  San  Francisco 
would  likely  use  local  streets  to  access  the  project  site. 

Comment  #82 

"My  comments  on  the  EIR  are  concerning  the  environmental  impact  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  and 
entering  the  freeway,  and  the  impact  that  -  the  differential  of  the  impact  of  when  the  Fell  Street  off- 
ramp  was  up,  and  since  it  has  been  torn  down.  Because  we  had  a  consistent  increase  in  traffic  in 
trying  to  get  on  that  freeway  since  that  Fell  Street  off-ramp  has  been  pulled  down.  Traffic  is  backing 
up  now.  So  the  EIR  might  have  been  good  before  Caltrans  tore  down  that  part  of  the  freeway,  but  it 
has  been  backed  up  since,  and  a  lot  of  people  are  taking  off,  coming  off  on  Bayshore,  and  taking 
other  routes  out.  So  these  people  are  talking  about  there  ain't  going  to  be  a  big  increase  in  traffic: 
Try  to  go  down  there  now,  and  get  out  of  here  and  go  across  the  bay,  and  you  will  see  what  you  are 
likely  to  contend  with.  Have  the  EPA  check  the  pollution  on  all  cars  backed  up.  So  I'm  concerned 
what  the  impact  is  now  with  all  the  automobiles  since  that  freeway  has  been  torn  down.  And  traffic 
is  considerably  backed  up.  You  have  a  heck  of  a  time  getting  on  the  freeway,  or  if  you  want  to  take 
Potrero."  (Al  Norman,  Resident) 


July  28, 2005 

200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.190 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Response  #82 

The  Fell  Street  off-ramp  (plus  the  old  Oak  Street  on-ramp)  to/from  U.S.  101  is  currently 
being  replaced  by  Caltrans  with  a  new  on-  and  off-ramp  to  Market  Street  and  the  new 
Octavia  Boulevard.  The  purpose  of  the  Caltrans  project  is  to  restore  the  previous  service 
provided  by  the  Fell  Street  and  Oak  Street  ramps  to  north  of  Market  Street  by  a  surface  route 
providing  an  equivalent  amount  of  traffic-carrying  capacity  as  the  previous  Oak  Street  and 
Fell  Street  ramps.  Construction  of  the  replacement  ramp  and  Octavia  Boulevard  has  begun, 
and  will  be  completed  by  early  2006  according  to  the  City  of  San  Francisco  and  Caltrans. 
The  proposed  Home  Depot  store  is  scheduled  to  open  in  late  2006,  about  the  same  time  the 
new  ramps  and  Octavia  Boulevard  will  be  operational.  Any  increase  in  current  traffic 
volumes  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  U.S.  101  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site  that  followed 
the  demolition  of  the  Fell  Street  off-ramp  would  likely  be  reduced  when  the  new  replacement 
facility  is  operational. 

Comment  #83 

"The  other  example  that  I  would  like  to  share  is  the  condition  of  getting  off  the  freeway  in 
Emeryville,  outside  IKEA.  I  don't  have  the  figures  on  that,  but  I  think  probably  comparable  with 
what  you  have  proposed  here,  and  it  strikes  me  that  we  would  be  facing  a  similar  condition  on 
freeways  surrounding  this  proposed  Home  Depot  project.  And  consequently  it  would  have  a  very 
significant  traffic  impact.  So  basically  I  intuitively  feel  it  probably  underestimates  the  impact,  so  I 
would  urge  you  to  look  for  greater  study  of  that."  (Brent  Daniel,  Resident) 

Response  #83 

A  comparison  of  the  impacts  of  the  IKEA  store  in  Emeryville  to  the  anticipated  impacts 
associated  with  the  proposed  project  is  not  appropriate.  The  proposed  Home  Depot  store  and 
the  existing  IKEA  store  have  different  trip  generation  characteristics  since  they  sell  different 
products  and  have  different  customer  profiles  and  trip  purposes;  are  different  in  size  (the 
IKEA  store  in  Emeryville  is  about  275,000  sq.ft.)29;  are  in  areas  with  different  intensities  of 
retail,  commercial  and  residential  development;  and  have  different  access  configurations 
from  the  freeway  and  at  local  intersections.  Traffic  congestion  associated  with  access  to  the 
IKEA  store  is  largely  related  to  the  constraints  at  the  1-80  freeway  connections  at  Powell 

29  Diana  L  Keena,  AICP,  Associate  Planner,  City  of  Emeryville,  e-mail  to  Audrey  Pearson,  City  Attorney  San 
Francisco,  May  19,  2005.  This  e-mail  is  on  file  and  available  for  public  review  by  appointment  at  the  San  Francisco 
Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street,  Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco,  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E. 


200 1 .0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.  1 9 1 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Street,  and  is  due  to  large  volumes  of  IKEA  and  non-IKEA  traffic  demand  competing  for 
limited  roadway  capacity.  In  addition  to  the  IKEA  store,  the  freeway  connections  serve 
vehicles  generated  by  three  retail  complexes,  two  movie  theaters,  large  residential  and  office 
developments,  as  well  as  a  hotel. 

Comment  #84 

"I  have  really  appreciated  hearing  everyone's  comments  today,  and  I  am  also  concerned  about 
overflow  traffic;  traffic  on  Cortland;  all  of  those  issues.  The  one  thing  I  wanted  to  add  that  I  haven't 
heard  discussed  today  is  people  talk  about  that  this  could  be  a  good  placement  for  a  Home  Depot 
because  multiple,  multiple  merges  right  as  you  are  going  past  that  area,  so  that  when  you  go  -  like 
280  and  101  come  together  right  in  that  area,  so  if  you  are  driving  south  on  280  and  want  to  go  to 
Bernal  Heights,  like  I  often  want  to  do,  you  have  to  merge  over  by  four  or  five  or  six  lanes,  as 
different  highways  and  freeways  come  together.  That  already  makes  a  lot  of  traffic  impact  right 
there.  And  I  think  that  adding  additional  traffic  -  this  is  not  even  to  mention  Bernal  Heights,  but  just 
the  freeway  approaches  to  that  area  -  I  think  is  going  to  create  a  lot  of  extra  danger  and  backup 
because  of  all  that  merging."  (Phoebe  Grigg,  Resident) 

"Both  sponsors  and  project  advocates  in  favor,  and  those  that  spoke  in  opposition,  discussed  access 
with  respect  to  Cortland,  and  the  impact  that  would  have;  whether  or  not  many  people  came  via 
Cortland  or  didn't  certainly  —  it  is  certain  to  assume  that  people  will  come  off  the  freeway.  I  think  in 
order  for  it  to  be  adequate,  it  should  address  access  that  is  southbound  from  280.  One  of  the  earlier 
speakers  mentioned  that  you  have  to  cross  a  number  of  traffic  lanes,  once  you  get  off  the  280 
southbound  exit.  I  believe  that  to  be  accurate.  It  should  speak  to  that.  It  should  also  speak  to  the 
vehicle  types.  There  are  many  industrial  uses  in  that  area;  a  lot  of  trucks  in  that  area.  And  when  it 
does  vehicle  counts,  it  should  address  the  fact  that  in  that  particular  area  we  do  have  a  number  of 
heavy  vehicles,  and  the  impact  that  may  or  may  not  have  on  this  project."  (Kevin  Hughes,  Planning 
Commissioner) 

Response  #84 

The  proposed  project  would  be  located  near  on-  and  off-ramps  to  two  regional  freeways  - 
U.S.  101  and  1-280.  As  a  result,  there  would  be  regional  access  to  and  from  the  project  site. 
As  indicated  by  the  commenters,  U.S.  101  and  1-280  merge  south  of  the  project  site.  The 
merges  of  1-280  and  U.S.  101,  and  the  close  spacing  of  merges  and  the  on-  and  off-ramps, 
result  in  the  need  for  drivers  to  change  multiple  lanes  whether  continuing  on  1-280  or  U.S. 
101,  or  accessing  a  ramp.  These  lane  changes  (weaving  movements)  often  result  in 
breakdown  of  freeway  operations  during  peak  periods. 

Based  on  the  origin/destination  of  the  trips  generated  by  the  project,  it  was  estimated  that  the 
project  would  add  about  270  vehicles  to  U.S.  101  and  1-280  during  the  weekday  PM  peak 
hour,  and  400  vehicles  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  The  trips  generated  by  the 


July  28, 2005 

2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.192 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

proposed  project  would  somewhat  increase  the  level  of  weaving  that  occurs  by  vehicles 
destined  to  the  off-ramps  serving  the  project,  as  well  as  vehicles  accessing  the  freeway  from 
the  on-ramps.  Overall,  these  additional  project-related  vehicles  would  not  result  in  a 
substantial  increase  in  freeway  traffic  volumes  and  weaving  movements  and  would  not 
substantially  affect  freeway  operations.  As  a  result,  the  proposed  project  would  not  be 
considered  to  have  a  significant  impact  on  freeway  operating  conditions. 

The  closest  southbound  1-280  off-ramps  to  the  project  site  are  located  at  Pennsylvania  Street 
and  at  Alemany  Boulevard.  To  access  the  project  site  from  the  Pennsylvania  off-ramp, 
vehicles  would  have  to  travel  south  on  Pennsylvania  Street,  turn  right  onto  Cesar  Chavez 
Street,  turn  left  onto  Evans  Avenue,  turn  right  onto  Toland  Street  and  turn  right  onto  Oakdale 
Avenue.  Since  the  Alemany  Boulevard  exit  is  located  west  of  the  U.S.  101  merge,  vehicles 
are  required  to  travel  across  several  lanes  of  traffic  to  exit  at  the  Alemany  off-ramp.  To 
access  the  project  site  from  the  Alemany  off-ramp,  vehicles  would  have  to  turn  right  onto 
Ellsworth  Street  and  continue  north  until  Cortland  Avenue,  or  turn  right  onto  Crescent 
Avenue,  turn  left  onto  Putnam  Street  and  continue  north  until  Cortland  Avenue. 

Based  on  the  location  of  the  project  site  and  the  likely  origin/destination  of  the  trips,  it  was 
estimated  that  few  vehicles  would  access  the  site  from  southbound  1-280.  For  a  more  direct 
route,  vehicles  from  the  northeast  portion  of  San  Francisco  would  likely  use  U.S.  101 
southbound,  Potrero  Avenue  or  Third  Street  to  travel  to  and  from  the  project  site. 

Currently,  the  major  streets  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  (including  Bayshore  Boulevard  and 
Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial  Street)  have  a  relatively  high  percentage  of  truck  traffic,  about 
5  to  10  percent  during  the  peak  hours  based  on  field  observations  conducted  for  this  analysis. 
The  percentage  of  heavy  vehicles  currently  on  the  roadway  network  was  included  in  the 
analysis  of  the  intersection  operating  conditions. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.193 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Pedestrians 

Comment  #85 

"As  a  legally  blind  resident  of  Bemal  Heights,  I  walk  down  into  the  old  plant  house,  owned  and 
operated  for  a  long,  long  time,  and  I  can  tell  that  you  walking  across  the  street  and  going  down 
Cortland  and  crossing  the  street  to  Bayshore  is  really,  really  tough  -  compounded  with  this  proposed 
site  of  Home  Depot  is  going  to  get  a  lot  tougher.  Almost  everyone  will  get  the  monstrosity  what  with 
the  approved  target  in  traffic.  For  me  it  is  going  to  be  totally,  totally  almost  impossible  for  me  to 
enjoy  my  life  there.  Previously  I  talked  to  you  about  working  South  of  Market;  I  told  you  about  the 
space  for  the  airport  screener  program  there.  I  take  the  299  from  Bernal  down  to  Bayshore  to  the 
airport,  and  in  the  morning  with  the  previous  people  I  have  talked  about  the  high  traffic  densities  and 
so  on.  And  it  takes  me  two  hours  to  get  back  from  the  airport  on  the  299,  coming  through  Bayshore, 
to  be  dropped  off  and  walk  up  the  hill  to  Cortland.  So  I  think  everybody  needs  to  put  into 
consideration  about  the  effects  of  the  people  who  actually  live  there  and  work  there,  and  also  what 
they're  going  through,  basically,  in  my  situation  -  and  there's  also  other  situations  here  "(Roy  Redo, 
Resident) 

Response  #85 

The  Planning  Department's  significance  criteria  for  pedestrians  is  that  a  project  would  have  a 
significant  effect  on  the  environment  if  it  were  to  result  in  substantial  over-crowding  on 
public  sidewalks,  create  potentially  hazardous  conditions  for  pedestrians,  or  otherwise 
interfere  with  pedestrian  accessibility  to  the  site  and  adjoining  areas.  Based  on  the  results  of 
the  intersection  operations  analysis  conducted  for  the  DEIR,  the  project  would  result  in  a 
minor  increase  in  average  vehicular  delay  (less  than  two  seconds  per  vehicle)  at  the  study 
intersections  of  Cortland/ Andover  and  Cortland/Folsom,  for  traffic  on  Cortland  Avenue  and 
the  side  streets.  As  a  result  of  the  minimal  increase  in  vehicular  delays  associated  with  the 
increase  in  vehicles,  it  is  anticipated  that  the  project  would  not  result  in  increased  delays  and 
danger  to  pedestrians  on  Cortland  Avenue.  The  addition  of  traffic  on  Cortland  Avenue  and 
resulting  increase  in  delays  at  the  intersections  would  not  result  in  an  increase  in  travel 
speeds  on  Cortland  Avenue  or  the  side  streets.  At  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland,  the 
amount  of  green  time  available  for  pedestrians  to  cross  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  increase 
with  the  proposed  project  from  20  seconds  to  25  seconds.  As  such,  the  project  would  not  be 
considered  to  have  a  significant  impact  to  pedestrians.  Also  refer  to  Response  to  Comment 
#70  regarding  improvements  planned  for  implementation  by  DPT,  as  part  of  the  South  Bemal 
Heights  Traffic  Calming  Study,  that  would  enhance  pedestrian  conditions  and  safety  along 
Cortland  Avenue. 


July  28, 2005 

200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.194 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Comment  #86 

"Page  56  [of  the  DEIR:]  Pedestrians  -  [I]t  is  apparent  that  the  auto-dominant  nature  of  this  project,  in 
conjunction  with  project  and  general  pedestrian  traffic  will  result  in  hazardous  conditions  for 
pedestrians,  particularly  since  the  main  entrance  of  the  garage  is  at  Cortland  and  Bayshore  where 
pedestrian  activity  will  peak.  Cars  scrambling  to  'get  through  on  the  light'  are  particularly  notorious 
for  ignoring  pedestrians.  Also,  will  there  be  glare  problems  for  cars  exiting,  where  cars  leaving  a 
garage  may  have  problems  seeing  pedestrians,  or  where  cars  entering  a  dim  garage  may  have 
problems  seeing  pedestrians  in  the  garage. 

"Factoring  in  people  walking  from  buses  toward  Home  Depot  and  other  stores  in  the  area,  making 
transfers  between  bus  lines,  and  walking  from  curb  parking,  please  show  on  a  map  pedestrian  flows 
in  this  area,  including  the  traffic  lanes  and  level  of  traffic  in  those  lanes.  This  should  include  all 
entry/exit  points  to  Home  Depot  since  pedestrians  will  be  walking  in  front  of  those  points.  Please 
factor  in  Home  Depot  employees."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #86 

It  is  anticipated  that  most  customers  of  the  project  would  drive  to  and  from  the  project  site, 
and  that  the  project  would  not  result  in  a  substantial  increase  in  pedestrian  activity  along 
Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue.  As  indicated  on  DEIR  page  53,  on  typical 
weekdays  and  weekends,  pedestrian  activity  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  project  site  is 
relatively  light  throughout  the  day.  Currently,  most  of  the  pedestrians  at  this  location  are 
walking  to  and  from  the  nearby  Muni  and  SamTrans  bus  stops. 

Recently,  improvements  to  pedestrian  facilities  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  have 
been  implemented,  including  the  installation  of  new  pedestrian  signals  with  count-down 
indicators  (WALK/DON'T  WALK  indicators  which  present  the  time  remaining  to  cross  the 
street)  for  eastbound/westbound  pedestrians.  With  the  project,  the  amount  of  green  time 
available  for  pedestrians  to  cross  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  be  increased.  In  addition,  DPT 
has  conducted  an  initial  assessment  of  the  appropriateness  of  installing  new  sidewalk  bulb- 
outs  at  the  corners  of  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland,  and  has  determined  that  a  bulb- 
out  would  not  be  feasible  at  the  northwest  corner  and  that  additional  study  would  be  required 
to  determine  the  appropriateness  of  bulb-outs  at  the  northeast,  southwest  and  southeast 
corners.30  Although  the  project  would  result  in  an  increase  in  pedestrian/vehicular  conflicts 
at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  (primarily  due  to  the  increased  volume  of  vehicles 
turning  right  or  left  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  or  Cortland  Avenue),  the  intersection 


Letter  from  Bond  Yee,  Director  of  the  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  to  Tim  Erney,  Wilbur  Smith  Associates, 
September  7,  2004,  op  cit. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.195 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

improvements  would  enhance  pedestrian  safety.  It  should  be  noted  that  with  the  project  there 
would  be  an  increase  in  vehicles  crossing  the  north  and  south  crosswalks,  which  would 
increase  the  potential  for  conflicts  between  vehicles  and  pedestrians. 

The  pedestrian  access  plan  for  the  project  is  described  in  Response  to  Comment  #5  and 
presented  in  Figure  C&R.6  on  page  C&R.27. 

Building  codes  and  standards  address  issues  such  as  appropriate  interior  and  exterior  lighting 
and  prevention  of  glare.  The  parking  garage  would  be  designed  using  these  industry 
standards  and  code  requirements  for  visibility  and  sight  distances  for  vehicles  entering  and 
exiting  the  garage  (all  plans  for  the  garage  and  building  design  will  need  to  be  reviewed  and 
approved  by  the  City).  In  addition,  the  revised  traffic  signal  at  the  intersection  of 
Bayshore/Cortland  would  include  backplates  that  block  the  sun  and  other  possible 
distractions  from  the  area  around  the  traffic  signals.  At  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/ 
Cortland,  it  is  likely  that  Bernal  Hill  and  U.S.  101  west  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  shade 
the  intersection  from  the  setting  sun.  While  there  may  be  instances  when  drivers  experience 
glare,  this  condition  is  not  anticipated  to  cause  hazardous  conditions  for  pedestrians  by 
vehicles  entering  or  exiting  the  garage. 

Comment  #87 

"Page  54  indicates  the  traffic  signal  at  Cortland  and  Bayshore  is  20-25  seconds,  often  meaning 
people  are  unable  to  cross  within  the  allotted  time.  Additional  discussion  and  analysis  of 
improvement  should  be  given  to  improving  the  allotted  crossing  time  considering  people  leaving  the 
proposed  project  may  be  carrying  purchases.  If  time  for  this  signal  is  increased,  then  impacts  on 
traffic  queued  to  turn  will  increase.  This  warrants  further  discussion  on  parking  lot  access  in  the 
project  design  and  any  potential  improvement  conditions  the  project  sponsor  will  need  to  address." 
(Shelley  Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commissioner) 

"The  DEIR  does  not  appear  to  be  familiar  with  the  traffic  pattern  at  the  intersection  of  Cortland  and 
Bayshore.  Access  to  Bayshore  to  the  Home  Depot  site  or  to  the  101  on-ramp  requires  a  left  turn 
from  Cortland  to  Bayshore.  This  left  turn  capacity  is  already  highly  utilized.  This  requires  crossing 
through  the  pedestrian  crosswalks  across  Bayshore.  The  DEIR  does  not  recognize  the  significance  of 
the  conflicts  between  automotive  and  pedestrian  needs  at  this  corner.  The  crossing  time  to  get  all  the 
way  across  Bayshore  is  considerable.  When  pedestrians  are  crossing,  the  time  available  for  a  left 
turn  is  reduced  to  half  or  less  of  what  it  would  be  otherwise.  This  can  only  be  expected  to  increase  if 
a  huge  Home  Depot  is  built  here.  Moreover,  the  DEIR  notes  that  the  existing,  narrow  median  would 
be  removed  from  Bayshore,  leaving  pedestrians  wholly  at  the  mercy  of  hurried  drivers  who  already 
have  had  to  wait  a  long  time  to  turn  left.  This  corner  has  already  been  identified  as  a  dangerous 


July  28, 2005 

2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.196 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

intersection  for  pedestrians.  The  DEIR  does  not  even  recognize  that  these  conflicts  will  become 
vastly  worse  and  will  increase  congestion  over  what  is  projected."  (Amy  D.  Kyle,  Ph.D.,  M.P.H., 
Resident) 

Response  #87 

It  is  anticipated  that  most  customers  of  the  project  would  drive  to  and  from  the  project,  and 
that  the  project  would  not  result  in  a  substantial  increase  in  pedestrian  activity  along 
Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue.  Currently,  most  of  the  pedestrians  at  this  location 
are  walking  to  and  from  the  nearby  Muni  and  SamTrans  bus  stops. 

Vehicles  destined  to  or  from  the  project  site  traveling  to  and  from  the  Bayshore/Cortland 
driveway  on  Cortland  Avenue  would  not  cross  the  east/west  crosswalks  at  the  Bayshore 
Boulevard  intersection,  because  they  would  drive  straight  through  the  intersection.  However, 
vehicles  exiting  the  Bayshore/Cortland  driveway  and  making  right  or  left  turns  onto 
Bayshore  Boulevard  would  have  the  same  signal  phase  as  pedestrians  crossing  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  which  may  result  in  an  increase  in  conflicts  between  pedestrians  and  vehicles. 
The  most  recent  traffic  collision  history  report  for  this  intersection,  as  obtained  from  DPT, 
was  for  the  five-year  period  between  March  1998  and  March  2003.  For  these  five  years, 
there  were  a  total  of  1 1  collisions,  of  which  three  involved  pedestrians. 

As  stated  on  page  71  of  the  DEIR,  pedestrians  currently  have  20  to  25  seconds  to  cross 
Bayshore  Boulevard  at  Cortland  Avenue  during  a  normal  intersection  signal  phase,  and  30 
seconds  when  the  pedestrian  crossing  phase  is  actuated  (i.e.,  when  the  pedestrian  button  is 
pushed).  DPT  designs  signal  timing  plans  for  intersections  so  that  pedestrians  have  adequate 
time  to  safely  cross  the  street.  When  the  pedestrian  phase  is  actuated,  there  is  sufficient  time 
for  most  pedestrians  to  cross.  Based  on  field  observations  conducted  for  the  DEIR,  the 
primary  reason  that  some  pedestrians  were  not  able  to  cross  the  street  within  the  allotted  time 
was  observed  to  be  that  they  left  late  into  the  cycle  (i.e.,  when  the  red  hand  was  flashing), 
were  jaywalking,  or  did  not  activate  the  pedestrian  crossing  phase.  It  should  be  noted  that 
new  pedestrian  signals  with  countdown  indicators  were  recently  installed  at  the  intersection 
of  Bayshore/Cortland  for  eastbound/westbound  pedestrians,  which  serve  to  improve 
pedestrian  crossings  and  reduce  the  potential  for  pedestrians  to  not  entirely  clear  the  street. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.197 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

In  addition,  the  new  signal  plan  for  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  that  would  be 
instituted  with  the  project  would  provide  sufficient  green  time  for  pedestrians  crossing 
Bayshore  Boulevard.  Since  pedestrians  would  be  able  to  cross  Bayshore  Boulevard  during 
both  the  eastbound  and  westbound  signal  phases,  the  amount  of  crossing  time  would 
substantially  increase  (up  to  43  seconds  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  61  seconds 
during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour).  The  new  pedestrian  signals  with  countdown 
indicators  that  were  recently  installed  help  allow  pedestrians  to  safely  cross  Bayshore 
Boulevard.  With  the  proposed  project,  these  pedestrian  countdown  indicators  would  also 
facilitate  crossing  Bayshore  Boulevard,  even  with  the  removal  of  the  existing  pedestrian 
island  on  the  north  side  of  the  intersection.  The  pedestrian  island  on  the  south  side  of  the 
intersection  would  remain  with  the  project.  It  should  be  noted  that  with  the  project  there 
would  be  an  increase  in  vehicles  crossing  the  north  and  south  crosswalks,  which  would 
increase  the  potential  for  conflicts  between  vehicles  and  pedestrians.  However,  based  on  the 
improvements  to  the  signal  (count  down  indicators),  this  would  not  create  a  potentially 
hazardous  condition  or  result  in  a  significant  impact.  The  increased  green  time  provided  with 
the  new  signal  was  incorporated  into  the  intersection  analysis  for  both  Existing  plus  Project 
and  2015  Cumulative  scenarios  and  therefore  the  intersection  operations  presented  for 
Bayshore/Cortland  in  the  DEIR  represent  the  anticipated  conditions. 

Comment  #88 

"I  would  like  to  address  several  issues  that  will  affect  traffic  and  customer  safety.  Our  customers 
who  park  in  our  corner  lot  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore  and  Cortland  need  to  able  to  safely  exit  the 
lot  when  making  a  left  turn  onto  Cortland  heading  east.  Presently,  there  are  not  long  lines  of  traffic, 
and  cars  are  let  into  the  lane  without  any  resulting  problems. 

"With  the  increase  of  traffic  heading  eastbound,  and  drivers  attempting  to  run  the  light  because  of 
impatience,  there  will  be  a  real  safety  issue  for  someone  trying  to  turn  left  out  of  our  lot.  It  is  not 
logical  to  put  a  'No  Left  Turn'  sign  out  of  our  lot  because  there  is  no  existing  turnaround  area,  as 
Cortland  is  a  narrow  street.  A  possible  remedy  would  be  a  'Keep  Clear'  area  for  cars  to  remain 
behind  when  drivers  are  moving  east  on  Cortland. 

"Another  issue  will  be  traffic  going  southbound  on  Bayshore  that  is  turning  right  onto  Cortland. 
There  is  a  potential  safety  problem  for  cars  coming  out  of  our  lot.  Traffic  turning  right  onto  Cortland 
from  Bayshore  presently  swing  right  very  quickly  and  frequently  don't  stop  for  red  lights  on 
Bayshore.  With  the  increase  of  traffic  on  Bayshore,  there  would  be  further  safety  concerns.  A 
partial  remedy  would  be  to  install  a  'No  Right  Turn  on  Red'  at  Bayshore  or  a  signal  in  our  lot  letting 
the  people  out  and  stopping  traffic  southbound  on  Bayshore,  east  and  westbound  on  Cortland.  This 
traffic  light  could  be  sensory  operated,  so  it  only  activated  when  a  driver  pulled  out."  (Philip  Lerner, 
Floorcraft/Carpet  One) 


July  28, 2005 

200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.198 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Response  #88 

The  project  sponsor  has  committed  to  working  with  DPT  and  the  owners  of  Floorcraft 
regarding  potential  improvements  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland.  For  instance,  the 
project  sponsor  has  agreed  to  contribute  funding  to  establish  a  KEEP  CLEAR  zone  on 
eastbound  Cortland  Avenue,  directly  across  from  the  Floorcraft  parking  lot,  if  this 
improvement  is  recommended  by  DPT  based  on  observations  of  intersection  operations 
following  the  opening  of  the  proposed  Home  Depot  store.  The  KEEP  CLEAR  zone  would 
allow  vehicles  exiting  the  Floorcraft  parking  lot  to  turn  left  onto  eastbound  Cortland  Avenue 
without  having  to  wait  for  a  gap  in  the  traffic  queue.  If  this  measure  were  implemented,  the 
length  of  the  queue  along  eastbound  Cortland  Avenue  (from  Bayshore  Boulevard)  would 
increase  by  the  length  of  the  KEEP  CLEAR  zone,  or  about  20  to  30  feet  (note  that  the 
number  of  vehicles  in  the  queue  would  not  change).  However,  this  lengthening  of  the  queue 
would  not  substantially  affect  the  results  of  the  queuing  analysis  presented  in  the  DEIR  on 
pages  65  through  68. 

The  project  would  not  add  noticeable  traffic  to  the  right-turn  movement  from  southbound 
Bayshore  Boulevard  to  Cortland  Avenue  or  to  the  southbound  through  movement. 
Therefore,  the  project  would  not  affect  conditions  for  these  movements.  The  placement  of  a 
"No  Turn  on  Red"  restriction  for  the  southbound  right-turn  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  to 
westbound  Cortland  Avenue  and  signalization  of  the  Floorcraft  parking  lot,  as  suggested  by 
the  commenter,  was  reviewed  by  DPT  and  determined  not  to  be  feasible.31 

Comment  #89 

"Another  issue  I  would  like  to  address  is  the  cross  pedestrian  traffic  issue.  When  Goodman's  was  in 
business,  many  customers  would  park  in  our  corner  parking  lot  or  frontage  parking  lot  and  jaywalk 
across  the  street  because  it  was  faster  and  easier  than  parking  in  Goodman's  lot.  It  worked  both  ways 
on  busy  days.  With  the  advent  of  Home  Depot,  this  situation  would  be  far  worse  because  the  traffic 
would  be  many  times  greater.  It  is  a  vital  safety  concern  because  of  the  constant  pedestrian 
jaywalking. 

"In  addition,  many  customers  do  not  like  parking  on  second  or  third  floor  levels,  and  may  think  it 
more  convenient  to  use  our  lot  for  parking  instead,  and  then  run  across  the  street.  A  possible  remedy 
would  be  to  construct  a  barrier  on  Bayshore  down  the  center,  perhaps  a  fence,  and  create  a 
turnaround  lane  north  of  our  building  to  ensure  that  people  did  not  dart  through  the  U-turn  area. 


31  Ibid. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.199  July  28,2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

"A  possible  solution  to  Home  Depot's  customer  usage  of  our  corner  lot  would  be  make  it  as 
inconvenient  as  possible  to  park  there  by  having  Home  Depot's  customer  store  entrance  and  exit  as 
far  back  towards  Loomis  Street  as  possible,  thereby  establishing  the  need  to  use  their  parking  lot  for 
convenience.  I'm  assuming  that  is  the  only  entrance  to  the  store,  as  I  believe  more  chaos  would  arise 
if  an  entrance  were  placed  on  the  Bayshore  side  of  the  store."  (Philip  Lerner,  Floorcraft/Carpet 
One) 

Response  #89 

The  project's  parking  garage  would  provide  539  parking  spaces,  which  would  accommodate 
its  expected  parking  demand  of  502  parking  spaces  on  a  weekday  and  539  parking  spaces  on 
a  Saturday.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  analysis  contained  in  the  Transportation  Study  and  the 
DEIR  assumed  a  parking  supply  of  550  spaces.  Refer  to  Response  to  Comment  #6  and 
Section  E  -  Staff-Initiated  Text  Changes  and  Errata,  specifically  pages  C&R.358,  C&R.360, 
and  C&R.362  to  C&R.  364,  which  include  changes  to  the  project  and  EIR  text  changes.  In 
addition,  the  second  level  of  the  parking  garage  would  have  connection  to  the  mezzanine 
level  of  the  store  and  a  secondary  pick-up  location  would  be  provided.  These  amenities 
would  enhance  the  attractiveness  of  parking  in  the  upper  levels  of  the  parking  garage. 
Therefore,  it  is  anticipated  that  there  would  be  minimal  spillover  to  on-street  parking  or  to  the 
Floorcraft  parking  lot.  The  primary  pedestrian  entrance/exit  for  the  project  would  be  located 
away  from  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  street  frontage  (but  could  be  accessed  from  Bayshore 
Boulevard),  and  would  be  within  the  parking  structure  between  Bayshore  Boulevard  and 
Loomis  Street.  This  location  of  the  pedestrian  entrance/exit  would  encourage  visitors  to  the 
proposed  project  to  park  within  the  project  parking  facility  and  would  reduce  the 
attractiveness  of  parking  further  away  from  the  project  site  (either  on-street  or  within  the 
Floorcraft  parking  lot).  It  should  be  noted  that  Home  Depot  customers  that  park  in  the 
project  parking  garage  may  also  visit  other  nearby  establishments  such  as  Floorcraft,  or 
Floorcraft  patrons  may  also  find  it  more  convenient  to  park  at  the  Home  Depot  parking 
garage  rather  than  searching  for  on-street  parking. 

The  project  includes  improvements  to  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland,  including  a  new 
southbound  left  turn  pocket,  the  extension  of  the  northbound  left  turn  pocket,  and  provision 
of  pedestrian  countdown  signals  for  northbound/southbound  pedestrians.  In  addition, 
pedestrian  countdown  signals  have  been  recently  installed  for  eastbound/westbound 
pedestrians.  It  is  not  anticipated  that  customers  of  the  project  would  not  utilize  the  signalized 
crosswalk  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  and  would  cross  Bayshore  Boulevard 


July  28, 2005 

200 1 .0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.200 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

mid-block  to  access  the  Floorcrafit  parking  lots,  or  that  customers  of  Floorcraft  would  cross 
Bayshore  Boulevard  midblock  to  access  the  proposed  project's  parking  facility.  As  such, 
measures  such  as  barriers  or  fences,  or  turnaround  lanes,  are  not  warranted  and  were  not 
considered  in  the  DEIR.  See  Response  to  Comment  #87  for  discussion  of  additional 
pedestrian  improvements  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland. 


Bicycles 

Comment  #90 

"I  know  that  I  have  spoken  with  President  Bell  about  some  of  the  things  that  need  to  be  addressed, 
and  she'll  have  some  other  comments,  I'm  sure,  but  the  points  about  bike  lanes  and  things  that  need  to 
be  done  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  I  think  are  very  important,  because,  you  probably  are  only  going  to 
have  one  shot  to  do  it,  and  at  least  if  you  are  going  to  do  it,  let's  do  it  the  right  way,  and  make  it 
pedestrian  friendly,  as  well  as  mitigate  the  traffic  problems  that  will  be  presented."  (Michael 
Antonini,  Planning  Commissioner) 

"And  I  have  something  else  to  say:  Bayshore  is  a  cutout.  If  you  are  on  a  bicycle,  and  you  want  to  get 
from  San  Bruno  Avenue,  for  example,  where  I  went  recently  on  my  bicycle,  just  to  see  what  was 
happening  down  south.  Because  usually  I'm  headed  toward  San  Francisco;  I  don't  go  down  south; 
I'm  going  towards  in  San  Francisco.  But  when  I  went  down  to  San  Bruno  recently  I  noticed  there 
were  bike  lanes  there.  And  I  was  saying,  'How  the  heck  would  someone  get  from  San  Bruno  -  where 
I  have  a  friend  who  lives  down  there,  and  I  was  trying  to  purchase  the  right  bike  -  How  do  you  get 
from  San  Bruno  to  downtown  San  Francisco  to  commute?'  And  I'm  asking  you  to  plan  for  the  future. 
This  is  the  time  to  plan  for  the  future;  not  at  some  future  time  when  you  think,  'Well,  maybe  if  the 
problem  gets  bad  enough  we  can  start  planning  for  it.'  The  time  to  plan  for  it  is  now,  and  there  is  no 
way  that  -  going  up  Cortland  or  going  up  to  Bernal  Heights  it  is  a  grueling  hill  on  a  bicycle,  and 
every  provision  should  be  made  for  allowing  bicycle  riding  through  an  area  that  is  a  cutout  between 
the  hills  -  which  is  what  Bayshore  is.  And  I  don't  see  any  planning  about  that  in  the  environmental 
impact  report;  I  think  it  is  very  important  for  the  people  from  San  Bruno  Avenue."  (John  Daniel, 
Resident) 

"I  come  from  just  west  of  Bernal  Heights  in  my  job  that  I  have  been  working  for  three  years  -  which 
is  a  block  off  of  Bayshore  on  Jerrold  Avenue.  On  Monday  night  I  saw  a  cyclist  get  hit  by  a  car  on 
Oakdale  at  Bayshore,  so  it  is  already  happening.  I  didn't  speak  to  the  fact  that  I  get  spit  at  and  yelled 
at  and  having  things  thrown  at  me  by  people  coming  off  of  Cortland,  turning  on  to  Bayshore.  So 
when  I  see  these  other  people,  who  are  going  to  be  impatient  -  1,200  more  cars  per  hour  as  I'm 
coming  from  my  job  -  what  are  they  going  to  do?  Are  they  going  to  run  me  off  the  road?"  (Rachel 
Kesel,  Resident) 

"The  San  Francisco  Bicycle  Coalition  would  like  to  submit  the  following  comments  regarding  the 
proposed  Home  Depot  development  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard  on  behalf  of  our  4,200  dues  paying 
members.  We  feel  that  this  EIR  does  not  adequately  portray  the  potential  negative  environmental 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.201 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

effects  of  the  development,  including  but  not  limited  to  its  effects  on  bicyclists  and  pedestrians,  air 
quality,  and  traffic  congestion. 

"Bayshore  Boulevard  is  a  critical  north-south  bicycle  route  through  the  Bayview  and  Bernal  Heights 
neighborhood.  Current  conditions  are  unacceptable  for  bicycles,  given  the  already  heavy  traffic  and 
speed  differential  that  exists,  together  with  a  lack  of  dedicated  bicycle  lanes.  The  Home  Depot  will 
result  in  a  significant  increase  in  traffic  to  the  site,  including  large  delivery  trucks,  particularly 
hazardous  to  cyclists  in  areas  lacking  adequate  bicycle  facilities.  This  development  will  directly 
increase  potential  danger  and  conflict  between  bicyclists  and  motor  vehicles.  In  fact,  the  EIR 
acknowledges  that  the  Home  Depot  project  will  result  in  'increased  potential  for  conflicts  between 
motorists  and  bicyclists,  as  there  would  be  more  competition  for  the  travel  lanes  between  bicycles, 
autos,  and  trucks.'  It  goes  on  to  say  that  'this  would  not,  however,  adversely  impact  bicycle 
conditions.'  Bicycle  conditions  are  clearly  'adversely  impacted'  when  there  is  additional  motor 
traffic,  especially  on  a  road  such  as  Bayshore  without  bike  lanes.  This  is  a  very  real  impact  that  is 
not  related  accurately  in  this  EIR. 

"As  a  result,  we  believe  it  is  proper  (and  not  without  precedent  in  other  cities)  to  require  Home  Depot 
to  provide  mitigation  measures  that  will  address  the  serious  impacts  on  bicycle  traffic  along 
Bayshore,  commensurate  with  the  impacts  of  the  development.  Just  as  pedestrian  impacts  are  being 
mitigated  by  providing  countdown  signals  and  bulb  outs,  Home  Depot  should  be  required  to  pay  for 
the  installation  of  bicycle  lanes  along  Bayshore.  The  City  should  not  be  left  with  the  tab  for 
providing  basic  transportation  facilities  that  have  become  chronically  needed  as  a  result  of  a  private 
development  project.  In  fact,  Bayshore  Boulevard  has  already  been  identified  in  the  San  Francisco 
Bike  Plan  Update  as  one  of  the  City's  'top  20'  needed  bicycle  projects.  It  is  highly  likely,  given  the 
arterial  nature  of  Bayshore  Boulevard,  that  bike  lanes  will  be  the  preferred  alternative."  (Leah 
Shahum,  Executive  Director  of  the  San  Francisco  Bicycle  Coalition) 

Response  #90 

An  update  to  the  San  Francisco  Bicycle  Plan  2004  (Bicycle  Plan  2004)32  has  recently  been 
approved  by  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Commission  and  is  currently  being  considered  by 
the  Board  of  Supervisors  for  incorporation  into  the  San  Francisco  General  Plan.  The  City  of 
San  Francisco  is  also  considering  adopting  the  San  Francisco  Bicycle  Plan  Update33 
.  (Update),  which  would  include  both  a  new  bicycle  network  map  and  18  short-term  projects. 
This  Update,  however,  is  currently  not  intended  to  be  incorporated  into  the  General  Plan?4 
The  Bicycle  Plan  2004  and  the  Update  have  not  yet  been  adopted  by  the  City  of  San 
Francisco  and,  therefore,  do  not  have  regulatory  authority.  For  informational  purposes,  this 
response  will  discuss  how  these  proposed  policies  relate  to  the  project. 


City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  San  Francisco  Bicycle  Plan  2004,  September  2004.  This  report  is  available  for 
public  review  online  at:  http://www.sfgov.org/site/bac_index.asp7io>!  1525. 

33  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic,  "San  Francisco  Bicycle  Plan  Update 
Preliminary  Engineering  Priority  Project  Sheets  -  Bayshore  Boulevard,"  December  2003. 

34  Personal  communication  with  Josh  Switzky,  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  April  19,  2005. 


July  28, 2005 

2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.202 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Bicycle  Plan  2004  includes  recommended  changes  and  improvements  to  the  existing  Bicycle 
Route  Network  (Network).  The  relevant  proposed  route  changes  to  the  Network  include 
additions  of  certain  streets  in  the  project  area  to  the  Network.  These  additions  are: 
1)  Industrial  Street  between  Oakdale  Avenue  and  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  2)  Loomis  Street 
between  Industrial  Street  and  Oakdale  Avenue.  These  recommended  changes  do  not  specify 
any  physical  improvements  or  modifications  to  Industrial  or  Loomis  Streets;  therefore,  this 
new  designation,  if  incorporated  into  the  General  Plan,  would  not  conflict  with  the  project. 
Also,  the  project  would  not  interfere  with  the  proposed  designation  of  proposed  bicycle 
routes  on  Loomis  and  Industrial  streets.  Therefore,  the  proposed  project  would  not  change  or 
conflict  with  proposed  recommended  changes  in  Bicycle  Plan  2004. 

The  extension  of  the  bicycle  network  on  Loomis  Street  and  Industrial  Street  could  result  in 
more  bicyclists  using  Loomis  Street.  The  increase  in  the  number  of  bicyclists  on  this 
segment,  coupled  with  the  increase  in  vehicles  associated  with  the  proposed  project,  could 
result  in  an  increase  in  conflicts  between  autos  and  bicyclists.  However,  this  condition  would 
not  be  dissimilar  to  operations  on  other  San  Francisco  streets  designated  as  bicycle  routes 
where  vehicles  and  bicyclists  share  the  travel  lane. 

Bayshore  Boulevard  is  classified  as  a  "Major  Arterial"  in  the  San  Francisco  General  Plan, 
which  is  defined  as  cross-town  thoroughfares  whose  primary  function  is  to  link  districts 
within  the  city  and  distribute  traffic  to  and  from  the  freeways,  and  are  generally  of  citywide 
significance.  Bicycle  route  #25  runs  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  as  a  signed  route  only 
(signed  routes  with  no  designated  bike  lane  are  classified  as  Class  III  facilities).  The  project 
and  associated  intersection  improvements  would  not  preclude  the  establishment  of  bicycle 
lanes  on  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  project  improvements  at  the  intersection  of 
Bayshore/Cortland  would  be  designed  to  incorporate  any  planned  bicycle  improvements 
along  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

The  Update  includes  18  specific  short-term  projects,  including  improvements  to  Bayshore 
Boulevard.  For  the  section  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site,  it  was 
recommended  that  a  bicycle  lane  be  provided  in  the  northbound  direction  either  by 
eliminating  one  northbound  travel  lane  (Option  1)  or  by  narrowing  the  existing  median  and 
travel  lanes  (Option  2),  both  of  which  would  allow  the  provision  of  a  6-foot-wide  bicycle 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.203 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

lane.  Option  2  would  not  be  inconsistent  with  the  improvements  proposed  as  part  of  the 
project  and  would  be  incorporated  into  the  proposed  project's  redesign  of  the  intersection  of 
Bayshore/Cortland  (although  the  project  would  propose  to  convert  a  portion  of  the  existing 
median  into  a  dedicated  southbound  left-turn  lane,  it  would  not  result  in  narrowing  the  width 
of  the  median).  The  analysis  of  intersection  operating  conditions  with  this  option  would  be 
the  same  as  those  presented  in  the  DEIR,  as  capacity  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  be 
maintained.  However,  since  Option  1  would  result  in  a  decrease  in  capacity  on  northbound 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  operating  conditions  at  the  study  intersections  would  likely  worsen 
under  the  analysis  scenarios.  The  provision  of  a  northbound  bicycle  lane  under  either  option 
and  increased  bicycle  travel  on  northbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  result  in  an  increase 
in  potential  for  conflicts  between  bicycles  and  northbound  project  traffic  turning  right  at  the 
intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland.  The  project  sponsor  has  agreed  to  stripe  a  bicycle  lane 
along  the  east  side  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  in  front  of  the  project  area.  While  the  exact  design 
must  be  established  by  City  transportation  planners,  a  striped  bicycle  lane  is  expected  to 
reduce  potential  conflicts  by  not  requiring  bicyclists  to  share  the  travel  lane  with  vehicles, 
which  would  also  enhance  the  visibility  of  bicyclists  to  drivers. 

It  was  estimated  that  the  project  would  generate  about  848  vehicle-trips  during  the  weekday 
PM  peak  hour  and  1,268  vehicle-trips  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  Since  the 
project  site  has  multiple  access  points,  these  trips  would  be  distributed  between  Loomis 
Street  (to  Oakdale  Avenue  and  Industrial  Street)  and  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  project  would 
result  in  an  increase  in  traffic  levels  on  Bayshore  Boulevard,  especially  for  the  segment 
between  Oakdale  Avenue  and  Industrial  Street. 

Currently,  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  Bayshore  Boulevard  carries  over  2,600 
vehicles  between  Oakdale  Avenue  and  Industrial  Street.  The  project  would  add  about  200  to 
400  vehicles  to  Bayshore  Boulevard  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  which  would 
represent  an  increase  of  7  to  15  percent. 

The  DEIR  on  page  72  concluded  that  while  the  number  of  vehicles  on  Bayshore  Boulevard 
and  the  potential  for  conflicts  between  bicyclists  and  vehicles  would  increase  with  the  project 
(in  particular  the  northbound  right-turn  movement  into  the  project's  Bayshore/Cortland 
driveway),  the  project  would  not  substantially  affect  bicycle  conditions  on  Bayshore 


July  28, 2005 

200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.204 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Boulevard.  This  is  true  because  the  project  itself  would  not  cause  any  major  changes  to 
bicycle  routing,  signing,  or  flow,  except  for  the  proposed  additional  of  a  bicycle  lane,  which 
would  be  a  beneficial  addition.  The  main  Bayshore  Boulevard  driveway  to  the  proposed 
project  would  be  located  directly  at  the  Cortland  Avenue  intersection,  where  there  is  a  traffic 
light.  This  traffic  light  would  provide  for  a  signalized  driveway,  which  would  control  both 
motorized  and  bicycle  traffic,  thereby  eliminating  most  potential  conflicts.  In  addition, 
traffic  merging  onto  Bayshore  Boulevard  from  the  proposed  project  parking  lot  would  not  be 
permitted  to  block  bicycle  lanes,  per  California  Vehicle  Code  Section  2121 1(a).  As  a  result, 
no  additional  mitigation  measures  would  be  required. 

The  project  would  provide  28  bicycle  parking  spaces,  to  be  located  on  the  ground  floor  of  the 
parking  garage.  In  addition,  the  project  would  provide  shower  and  locker  facilities  for 
employees. 


Parking 

Comment  #91 

"The  amount  of  parking  on-site  is  well  below  what  would  be  available  for  other  Home  Depots." 
(Charles  M.  Abrams,  President,  Abrams  Associates) 

"The  Proposed  Parking  Garage  Cannot  Meet  Peak  Demand.  Information  From  the  Traffic  Study 
Withheld  from  DEIR.  The  project  anticipates  a  peak  demand  for  539  parking  spaces  on  Saturday 
afternoons.  The  DEIR  concludes  that  this  is  inadequate:  'Since  the  proposed  project  would  include 
550  parking  spaces,  it  would  meet  the  Planning  Code  requirements  and  meet  the  anticipated  parking 
demand.'1  Yet,  the  Traffic  Study  has  other  information.  The  Traffic  Study  includes  a  very 
significant  additional  paragraph  on  'Parking  Supply  versus  Planning  Code  requirements'  which 
concludes  that  the  parking  structure  won't  be  able  to  hold  all  the  cars  at  peak  times.  'It  should  be 
noted  that  parking  facilities  typically  have  an  effective  capacity  of  about  90  percent,  which  accounts 
for  certain  inefficiencies  of  the  facility,  and  that  spaces  emptied  cannot  be  immediately  reoccupied. 
As  such,  during  the  peak  parking  demand  periods,  it  may  be  difficult  for  drivers  to  find  parking 
within  the  proposed  project's  parking  garage.'2  This  information  was  not  included  in  the  DEIR, 
which  seems  to  be  a  serious  omission  of  a  finding  by  the  project's  own  consultant.  We  expect  the 
effective  capacity  to  be  even  lower  than  90  percent  because  the  garage  is  on  three  levels.  For  a  store 
where  consumers  purchase  large  items,  and  they  must  push  large,  heavy  carts  to  their  vehicles,  they 
prefer  to  park  on  the  lower,  entrance  level.  This  is  certainly  the  case  in  Colma,  where  people  will 
circle  the  lower  level  or  wait  for  vehicles  to  depart  rather  than  go  up  the  ramp  to  the  upper  level  of 
parking.  It  is  unacceptable  to  build  a  project  when  the  garage  cannot  hold  the  related  parking."  (Eve 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.205 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron 
Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  DEIR,  page  6. 

2 

Transportation  Study,  page  4-15. 

"Page  6,  paragraph  3  indicates  the  proposed  project  is  required  to  provide  503  off-street  parking 
spaces  per  code.  The  project  would  include  550  parking  spaces.  Further  discussion  of  parking 
impacts  from  the  project  during  peak  periods  is  required.  If,  during  peak  periods,  it  is  anticipated 
there  will  be  approximately  600  vehicles  during  peak,  additional  discussion  of  overflow  parking  is 
needed."  (Shelley  Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President) 

Response  #9 1 

Parking  demand  estimates  for  the  project  were  based  on  an  independent  parking  demand 
study  conducted  at  other  Home  Depot  stores  nationwide,  the  purpose  of  which  was  to 
determine  the  average  and  peak  parking  demand  for  stores.35  In  general,  parking  facilities  for 
most  uses,  including  retail  uses,  are  typically  designed  to  accommodate  the  fifth  highest 
parking  demand  of  the  year  (referred  to  as  the  "design  day").  In  other  words,  a  parking 
facility  sized  for  the  design  day  would  be  able  to  accommodate  the  anticipated  parking 
demand  for  over  98  percent  of  the  year  (designing  a  project  for  the  maximum  parking 
demand  typically  results  in  a  substantial  over-supply  of  parking  that  is  rarely  used).  Overall, 
it  was  determined  that  the  peak  parking  demand  at  Home  Depot  stores  typically  occurs  on 
Saturdays,  with  somewhat  lower  demand  on  Sundays  and  weekdays. 

The  DEIR  discussion  summarized  the  parking  assessment  contained  in  the  Transportation 
Study  for  the  proposed  project.36  As  stated  on  page  60  of  the  DEIR,  the  project  was 
estimated  to  have  a  peak  demand  of  502  parking  spaces  on  a  weekday  and  539  parking 
spaces  on  a  weekend,  which  includes  both  customer  and  employee  demand.  The  total 
parking  demand  would  represent  the  design  day-parking  demand,  or  the  fifth-highest  demand 
of  the  year.  Since  the  project  would  provide  539  spaces  (note  that  the  analysis  contained  the 
Transportation  Study  and  the  DEIR  assumed  a  parking  supply  of  550  spaces),  the  parking 


Barton- Aschman  Associates,  "Parking  Demand  Study  -  The  Home  Depot,"  January  1992.  A  copy  of  this  report  is 
on  file  and  available  by  appointment  for  public  review  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission 
Street,  Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco,  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E!. 

36  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  491  Bayshore  Boulevard  Home  Depot  Transportation  Study,  September  17,  2002.  This 
report  is  on  file  and  available  by  appointment  for  public  review  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  1 660 
Mission  Street,  Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco,  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E!. 


July  28, 2005 

2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.206 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

supply  would  accommodate  the  expected  parking  demand.  Refer  to  Response  to  Comment 
#6  and  Section  E  -  Staff-Initiated  Text  Changes  and  Errata,  specifically  pages  C&R.358, 
C&R.360,  and  C&R.362  to  C&R.  364,  for  a  description  of  project  design  changes  from  that 
presented  in  the  DEIR. 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  parking  demand  rates  used  to  determine  the  demand  at  the  project 
include  both  customers  and  employees.  Since  the  project  site  is  more  transit-accessible  than 
most  other  Home  Depot  stores,  it  is  possible  that  some  percentage  of  employees  would 
actually  use  transit  and  not  drive.  As  such,  the  estimated  parking  demand  may  be  somewhat 
less  than  estimated  from  the  rates  included  in  the  parking  demand  study.  However,  as  a 
conservative  estimate  of  the  travel  and  parking  demand  for  the  project,  it  was  assumed  that 
all  visitors  and  employees  would  drive. 

As  discussed  in  the  Transportation  Study,  parking  facilities,  such  as  parking  garages, 
typically  have  an  effective  capacity  of  about  90  percent,  which  accounts  for  certain 
inefficiencies  of  the  facilities,  and  that  spaces  emptied  cannot  be  immediately  reoccupied 
(surface  parking  lots  typically  have  an  effective  capacity  of  about  95  percent).  As  such, 
during  the  peak  parking  demand  periods,  it  may  be  difficult  for  customers  to  find  parking 
within  the  parking  garage.  However,  this  would  likely  happen  only  a  few  times  a  year,  since 
the  parking  garage  would  be  sized  to  accommodate  the  parking  demand  for  98  percent  of  the 
time. 

During  the  times  when  the  parking  demand  would  exceed  the  effective  capacity  of  485 
spaces  (90  percent  of  539  spaces)  in  the  proposed  parking  garage,  any  overflow  parking 
demand  could  be  accommodated  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Loomis  Street.  According 
to  field  counts  conducted  for  the  project,  there  are  a  total  of  about  125  on-street  parking 
spaces  along  the  east  side  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  both  sides  of  Loomis  Street,  between 
Oakdale  Avenue  and  Industrial  Street.  Currently,  about  50  percent  of  these  spaces  (about  60 
spaces)  are  occupied  during  average  weekday  and  weekend  afternoon  periods,  which  would 
leave  sufficient  spaces  to  accommodate  any  shortfall  that  would  occur  on-site. 

To  accommodate  customer  purchases,  a  pick-up  location  would  be  established  on  the  ground 
floor  of  the  parking  garage,  adjacent  to  the  main  entrance  of  the  store.  In  addition,  the  second 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.207 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

level  of  the  parking  garage  would  have  a  direct  connection  to  the  mezzanine  level  of  the 
store,  where  a  secondary  pick-up  location  would  be  provided.  These  amenities  would 
enhance  the  attractiveness  of  parking  in  the  upper  levels  of  the  parking  garage. 

It  should  be  noted  that  about  four  to  six  times  a  year  about  26  parking  spaces  adjacent  to  the 
main  store  entrance  on  the  ground  floor  are  anticipated  to  be  used  for  seasonal  sales  items. 
The  reduction  in  the  number  of  parking  spaces  would  generally  be  for  a  one-week  period, 
however,  in  December  it  would  be  for  a  three-week  period.  The  use  of  parking  spaces  to 
accommodate  seasonal  sales  would  reduce  the  parking  supply  from  539  spaces  to  513  spaces. 
During  the  December  seasonal  sales,  the  overall  sales  activity  is  less  than  the  monthly 
average,  and  therefore  the  parking  demand  would  likely  be  accommodated  within  the 
reduced  supply  of  513  spaces.  If  a  seasonal  sales  period  during  the  remainder  of  the  year 
occurs  during  periods  of  peak  parking  demand,  the  peak  weekday  parking  demand  of  502 
spaces  could  be  accommodated  within  the  reduced  supply,  however,  the  peak  weekend 
parking  demand  of  539  spaces  would  result  in  a  shortfall  of  26  spaces.  Accounting  for  an 
effective  capacity  of  the  garage  of  about  90  percent,  the  shortfall  could  be  greater  than  26 
spaces.  As  noted  above,  during  the  times  when  the  parking  demand  would  exceed  the 
capacity  of  the  proposed  parking  garage,  any  overflow  parking  demand  could  be 
accommodated  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Loomis  Street. 

Comment  #92 

"What  is  Home  Depot's  policy  re[garding]  employee  parking;  where  are  they  told  they  may  park?  Is 
the  policy  different  at  different  times  of  the  year,  during  sales?  What  is  the  estimate,  by  time  of  day, 
on  how  many  employee  cars  will  be  at  or  around  the  Home  Depot  site?"  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at 
Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #92 

According  to  the  project  sponsor,  Home  Depot  would  encourage  their  employees  to  park  on 
the  third  level  of  the  garage,  in  order  to  allow  the  lower  two  floors  to  be  used  by  customers. 
In  addition,  employees  would  be  encouraged  to  not  park  on  neighborhood  streets  at  any  time. 

Overall,  the  project  sponsor  estimates  that  there  would  be  approximately  197  employees  at 
the  store  per  day,  including  both  full-time  and  part-time  employees,  which  would  correspond 
to  about  80  employees  at  any  one  time.  As  a  conservative  estimate,  if  all  80  employees  were 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.208 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

to  drive  alone  to  and  from  work,  there  would  be  an  employee  parking  demand  of  about  80 
spaces.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  parking  demand  for  employees  is  included  in  the  overall 
project  parking  demand  estimated  for  the  project. 

Comment  #93 

"Parking  Implications.  This  subject  also  clearly  needs  more  analysis.  The  parking  generation 
demand  numbers  need  to  be  reviewed  carefully  and  more  backup  provided  since  they  are  based  on  a 
study  prepared  almost  10  years  ago  and  provided  by  the  project  sponsor.  An  alternative  calculation 
should  be  provided  to  verify  the  numbers  used  in  the  study. 

"Other  big-box  businesses,  including  Home  Depot,  typically  require  that  a  commercial  real  estate 
developer  provide  at  least  five  (5)  parking  spaces  per  1,000  square  feet  in  new  shopping  centers.  For 
this  project,  this  could  indicate  the  need  for  at  least  765  parking  spaces.  The  proposed  project  could 
have  a  deficiency  of  over  200  spaces.  In  addition,  of  the  550  spaces  proposed  for  the  Bayshore 
Home  Depot,  about  270  spaces  are  located  on  the  third  floor  rooftop  level,  that  will  be  very 
inconvenient  for  the  majority  of  Home  Depot's  customers."  (Charles  M.  Abrams,  President,  Abrams 
Associates) 

"Page  60  [of  the  DEIR]:  Parking  demand  is  based  on  data  that  have  not  been  available  for  review  by 
the  public.  The  demand  for  parking  was  based  on  an  unavailable  Home  Depot  study  and  checked  by 
a  count  at  a  nearby  Home  Depot.  Who  conducted  the  count?  Why  have  those  data  been  unavailable 
for  review?"  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee 
Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #93 

Parking  demand  for  the  project  was  estimated  from  a  parking  demand  study  conducted  by  an 
independent  consultant  at  other  Home  Depot  stores  nationwide.37  For  the  study,  the  hourly 
parking  demand  (both  employees  and  customers)  was  counted  for  26  stores  on  weekdays  and 
weekends.  In  addition,  the  annual  sales  information  for  each  store  was  obtained,  and  the 
sales  information  for  the  parking  survey  day  was  compared  to  the  annual  total.  Based  on  the 
ratio,  the  parking  demand  was  adjusted  to  account  for  the  fifth  busiest  day  at  each  store. 
Parking  demand  equations  were  then  developed  for  both  weekday  and  weekend,  based  on  the 
size  of  each  facility.  Although  this  study  is  ten  years  old,  the  parking  demand  rates  are  still 
appropriate,  since  they  were  checked  against  actual  conditions  at  the  Colma  Home  Depot 
store. 


The  actual  parking  demand  at  the  Colma  Home  Depot  store  in  June  2002  was  compared 
against  parking  demand  estimates  for  the  Colma  store  using  the  parking  demand  study  rates. 


Barton- Aschman  Associates,  "Parking  Demand  Study  -  The  Home  Depot,"  January  1 992,  op  cit. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.209 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

During  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (which  is  the  time  period  with  the  greatest  activity), 
the  actual  parking  demand  at  the  Colma  store  was  determined  to  be  367  spaces.  Using  the 
parking  study  rates,  the  Colma  store  (with  about  113,100  gross  square  feet)  would  be 
estimated  to  have  a  parking  demand  for  449  spaces.  This  calculated  demand  is  about  82 
spaces  higher  than  the  actual  Colma  Home  Depot  store  parking  demand.  As  such,  the 
parking  demand  estimates  using  the  parking  study  rates  would  be  sufficient  to  account  for 
potential  higher  parking  demand  at  the  project  than  the  national  averages. 

It  is  not  clear  how  the  commenter  determined  that  big-box  retailers,  including  Home  Depot, 
typically  require  at  least  five  parking  spaces  per  1,000  square  feet  in  new  shopping  centers, 
since  each  jurisdiction  and  retailer  have  different  parking  requirements  and  standards.  The 
project  would  be  a  stand-alone  business  and  the  parking  supply  was  sized  to  meet  the 
anticipated  parking  demand. 

Based  on  architectural  specifications  and  experience  with  Home  Depot,  the  project  architects 
have  determined  that  500  to  525  parking  spaces  is  typically  adequate  to  accommodate  the 
parking  demand  of  Home  Depot  stores  for  comparable  size  and  activity.  According  to 
information  provided  by  the  project  sponsor,  the  12  new  stores  opened  in  the  San  Francisco 
Bay  Area  between  2000  and  2004  have  averaged  about  128,300  sq.ft.  with  476  parking 
spaces,  for  an  average  of  about  3.7  spaces  per  1,000  square  feet  (see  Table  C&R.  17  on  page 
C&R.211).  As  such,  the  proposed  project's  153,100  sq.-ft.  store  with  a  proposed  parking 
garage  of  539  spaces  (3.5  spaces  per  1,000  square  feet)  would  be  consistent  with  the  other 
stores  in  the  area.  As  discussed  in  the  DEIR,  the  project  was  estimated  to  have  a  peak 
parking  demand  of  502  spaces  on  a  weekday  and  539  spaces  on  a  weekend,  which  could  be 
accommodated  in  the  proposed  parking  garage. 

About  239  spaces  within  the  proposed  parking  garage  would  be  located  on  the  third  level. 
These  spaces  would  be  directly  accessed  from  the  ramp,  which  would  be  located  on  the  south 
side  of  the  garage.  This  ramp  would  be  designed  to  allow  customers  to  quickly  travel 
between  parking  levels,  instead  of  having  to  drive  around  the  entire  level  to  reach  the  ramp. 
Although  parking  on  the  upper  levels  of  the  garage  may  be  somewhat  inconvenient  for  some 
customers,  elevators  would  be  provided  within  the  store  and  the  parking  garage  and  a 
customer  pick-up  area  would  be  provided  on  the  ground  floor  at  the  store  entrance  with  a 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.210 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

secondary  customer  pick-up  area  on  the  mezzanine  level.  It  should  be  noted  that  Home 
Depot  would  encourage  its  employees  to  park  at  the  third  level  of  the  garage,  which  would 
allow  more  customers  to  use  the  lower  parking  levels.  Refer  to  Response  to  Comment  #6  for 
a  breakdown  of  the  number  of  parking  spaces  by  level. 


Table  C&R.17 

Square  Footage  and  Number  of  Parking  Spaces  for 
Bay  Area  Home  Depot  Stores  Opened  between  2000  and  2004 

Store  Location 

Open  Date 

Total  Square 
Footage 

Customer  Parking 
Spaces 

Fremont 

2/22/01 

131,761 

464 

Hayward 

11/15/01 

131,218 

500 

Hercules 

12/11/03 

119,285 

461 

Livermore 

1/6/00 

131,704 

473 

Milpitas 

6/21/01 

132,922 

490 

Milpitas  -  Supply  Store 

5/16/02 

98,163 

382 

Morgan  Hill 

4/29/05 

122,609 

415 

Oakland 

6/24/04 

158,195 

649 

San  Jose  /  Bollinger 

5/11/00 

130,988 

457 

San  Jose  /  Hillsdale 

3/7/02 

132,320 

494 

Watsonville 

10/28/04 

118,981 

457 

Windsor 

6/28/01 

131,840 

465 

Average  of  12  Stores 

128,332 

476 

Source:  Home  Depot 


Comment  #94 

"Further  study  of  the  potential  parking  impacts  are  needed,  especially  with  respect  to  the  overflow  of 
Home  Depot  parking  onto  neighborhood  streets  and  onto  neighboring  businesses.  Furthermore,  the 
third  floor,  top  level  of  the  garage  will  not  be  effectively  utilized. 

"We  believe  that  this  project  will  result  in  a  great  unmet  demand  for  on-street  parking  on  Loomis, 
Waterloo,  Industrial,  Cortland,  and  many  other  nearby  streets.  This  on-street  parking  will  become  far 
more  convenient  to  customers  instead  of  using  the  rooftop  level  of  the  Home  Depot  parking 
structure.  The  neighboring  businesses  will  be  greatly  impacted  by  overflow  parking  from  the  Home 
Depot.  This  issue  needs  to  be  thoroughly  reviewed.  It  is  quite  likely  that  the  required  mitigation 
would  be  an  expanded  parking  facility  for  Home  Depot,  or  alternatively,  a  smaller  store.  The  current 
parking  ratio  is  out  of  balance."  (Charles  M.  Abrams,  President,  Abrams  Associates) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street  C&R.2 1 1 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

"Parking  Garage  Spillover  Will  Increase  Traffic  Backups.  If  cars  can't  fit  into  the  garage,  they  will 
either  queue  up  on  the  street  waiting  to  get  in,  or  they  will  circle  the  area.  Both  activities  will  cause 
further  delays  and  traffic  tie-ups.  And  idling  cars  create  higher  levels  of  toxic  air  emissions. 

"Parking  Problems  Won't  Encourage  More  Transit  Ridership.  While  the  DEIR  doesn't  actually  state 
that  the  garage  won't  hold  all  the  cars,  it  does  state  that  the  effect  of 'cars  circling  and  looking  for  a 
parking  space  in  areas  of  limited  supply... is  often  offset  by  a  reduction  on  vehicle  trips  due  to  others 
who  are  aware  of  constrained  parking  conditions  in  a  given  area.'1  This  would  not  seem  very  likely, 
given  that  most  people  who  shop  at  Home  Depot  are  purchasing  building  materials  and  bulky  items, 
which  can't  be  transported  on  public  transit."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle, 
Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 
Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  Transportation  Study,  page  4-2. 

"The  current  design  does  not  accommodate  peak  vehicle  trips,  and  further  discussion  of  how  on- 
street  parking  will  impact  traffic  flow  should  be  included  in  the  DEIR."  (Shelley  Bradford  Bell, 
Planning  Commission  President,  written  comments) 

The  parking  garage  will  not  accommodate  all  cars  on  peak  days,  and  off-street  parking  as  identified 
in  the  DEIR  on  Loomis  and  Waterloo  streets  could  impact  access  to  the  parking  garage."  (Shelley 
Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President,  written  comments  and  oral  testimony) 

"A  couple  of  matters  I  want  to  address,  and  No.  1  has  to  do  with  the  parking  configuration,  and  how 
that's  going  to  impact  traffic.  Usually,  commensurate  with  Home  Depots,  there  is  a  tremendous  need 
for  some  parking  around  the  area,  the  greenhouse  area,  with  materials  that  are  being  purchased  in  that 
area  and  being  loaded  in  the  vehicles.  That's  a  concern,  whether  that's  going  to  be  commensurate 
with  the  other  stores.  Another  concern  would  be  the  access  for  walking  traffic.  That  does  concern 
me  a  bit,  and  how  the  parking  is  going  to  be  impacted.  The  number  of  parking  spaces  that  are 
projected  on  the  scheme  does  not  really  go  a  long  way  in  satisfying  parking  needs  at  other  Home 
Depots  that  I  have  compared  to  this  one,  and  we  may  have  a  problem  with  that.  So,  some 
clarification  is  needed  in  that  area."  (Rev.  Edgar  Boyd,  Planning  Commissioner) 

"I  urge  you  to  treat  the  DEIR  with  great  skepticism,  because  basically  I'm  very  skeptical  about  it. 
Basically  I  have  three  examples  to  share  which  breeded  my  skepticism.  The  first  is  the  Colma  Home 
Depot.  I  have  visited  there  before,  and  I  can  remember  consistently  waiting  several  minutes  or  more 
-  and  that's  just  off  memory,  and  perhaps  was  even  longer  -  to  simply  enter  the  driveway.  And  I  can 
only  imagine  that  would  be  the  case  for  a  store  that  is  considerably  larger  than  the  Home  Depot  store 
as  proposed  for  this  property."  (Brent  Daniel,  Resident) 

"Parking  will  be  affected  and  cars  will  spill  at  peak  times  onto  Bayshore  and  side  streets."  (Nic 
Griffin,  Resident) 

"Page  42  [of  the  DEIR:]  Roadway  Network  -  Please  explain  the  location  and  amount  of  curb  parking 
on  Bayshore,  Cortland,  Industrial,  Loomis,  Waterloo,  Marengo,  and  Hilton  near  the  project  site.  Are 
there  sidewalks?  Since  it  is  likely  that  customers  will  search  for  on-street  parking  whenever  there  is 
congestion  at  the  garage,  or  when  they  perceive  that  curb  parking  will  get  them  in  and  out  faster,  it  is 
likely  that  people  will  park  along  those  streets.   Parking  at  those  locations  -  and  the  pedestrian 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.212 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

impacts  from  that  parking  -  has  not  been  factored  into  the  analysis  in  this  EIR.  It  must  be  included." 
(Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

"The  DEIR  also  speaks  to  say  that  there  will  be  a  loss  of  some  public  parking  spaces  down  there,  and 
I  don't  really  know  who  uses  those  spaces,  but  I  wonder  if  they  are  going  to  be  able  to  park  on  the  lot 
at  Home  Depot."  (Rachel  Kesel,  Resident) 

Response  #94 

As  indicated  in  the  DEIR  on  page  60,  the  parking  demand  for  the  project  was  estimated  for 
the  fifth  busiest  day  of  activity  (based  on  a  parking  demand  study  conducted  by  an 
independent  consultant  at  other  Home  Depot  stores  nationwide).  For  information  on  the 
development  of  project  parking  demand,  refer  to  Response  to  Comment  #93. 

During  times  of  peak  occupancy,  the  project's  parking  supply  may  not  be  able  to 
accommodate  the  entire  parking  demand.  Any  parking  demand  that  cannot  be  met  on-site 
would  need  to  be  accommodated  on-street,  such  as  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  or  Loomis 
Street  (where  there  is  currently  on-street  parking  available  throughout  the  day). 

Field  counts  conducted  for  the  project  indicate  that  there  are  a  total  of  about  125  on-street 
parking  spaces  along  the  east  side  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  both  sides  of  Loomis  Street 
between  Oakdale  Avenue  and  Industrial  Street.  Currently,  about  50  percent  of  these  spaces 
are  occupied  on  an  average  weekday  and  weekend  afternoon  periods.  As  such,  customers 
who  could  not  find  parking  within  the  project's  parking  garage  would  likely  be  able  to  find 
nearby  on-street  parking.  Sidewalks  are  currently  provided  along  both  sides  of  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  Cortland  Avenue,  Waterloo  Street  and  Loomis  Street  (inside  the  parking  study 
area)  and  along  both  sides  of  Oakdale  Avenue  and  Industrial  Street  (outside  the  parking  study 
area),  so  any  customers  that  parked  on  neighboring  streets  could  walk  to  and  from  the  project 
site.  While  most  customers  purchasing  building  materials  and  bulky  items  would  not  find  it 
convenient  to  park  on-street,  some  customers  may  find  it  preferable  to  park  on-street  whether 
or  not  there  is  parking  available  within  the  garage.  It  is  not  anticipated  that  occasional 
shortfalls  in  parking  supply  would  result  in  an  increase  in  the  use  of  transit  to  and  from  the 
proposed  project. 

Vehicles  searching  for  parking  in  and  around  the  project  site  may  add  to  the  traffic  volumes 
at  the  nearby  intersections,  and  vehicles  pulling  into  and  out  of  on-street  parking  spaces  may 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.213 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

somewhat  impede  street  traffic  flow.  However,  the  low  volume  of  these  vehicles  and  the 
infrequent  occurrences  would  not  substantially  affect  the  results  of  the  intersection  operations 
analysis  or  the  operations  of  the  adjacent  streets  (and  the  corresponding  traffic  and  transit 
operations).  The  air  quality  analysis  of  traffic  emissions  considered  the  movement  of  project- 
related  traffic,  and  the  localized  air  quality  impacts  would  not  be  significant. 

The  various  changes  to  the  configuration  of  the  nearby  streets  to  account  for  the  project,  such 
as  the  establishment  of  a  left-turn  pocket  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  into  the 
project  site,  would  not  result  in  any  loss  of  on-street  parking. 

Various  improvements  have  been  proposed  as  part  of  the  project  to  address  the  effects  of  the 
project  on  the  adjacent  roadway  network,  including  the  extension  of  the  northbound  left-turn 
pocket  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  Cortland  Avenue,  a  new  traffic  signal  at 
Bayshore/Cortland,  a  new  southbound  left-turn  pocket  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the 
project  driveway,  and  a  new  U-turn  pocket  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  north  of  the  new  left-turn 
pocket.  Since  these  measures  would  be  included  as  part  of  the  project,  as  noted  on  page  33  of 
the  DEIR,  they  would  be  fully  funded  by  the  project  sponsor. 

Although  the  left-turn  movement  at  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland  would  operate  at 
LOS  F  in  the  future,  changes  to  the  signal  at  this  intersection  would  be  implemented  by  DPT, 
as  part  of  its  existing  intersection  improvement  program.  DPT  has  requested  that  the  project 
sponsor  pay  for  this  improvement,  and  the  project  sponsor  has  agreed  to  do  so.  No  other 
transportation-related  mitigation  or  improvement  measures  have  been  proposed  that  would 
require  sole  action  or  funding  by  the  City. 

The  following  is  in  response  to  Commissioner  Boyd's  comment  regarding  conflicts 
associated  with  garden  center  operations.  As  indicated  on  Figure  C&R.6  on  page  C&R.27, 
the  greenhouse  and  garden  center  would  be  located  at  the  northern  portion  of  the  project  site. 
Visitor  access  to  this  section  would  be  from  the  main  store,  and  no  separate  entrance/exit  or 
loading  area  would  be  provided  for  the  garden  center.  It  should  be  noted  that  at  some 
existing  Home  Depots,  the  garden  center  operates  separately  and  may  have  an  additional 
loading  area  dedicated  to  the  garden  center.  However,  the  proposed  project  would  operate 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.214 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

similarly  to  existing  stores  where  all  purchases  are  conducted  through  the  main  checkout 
area,  and  no  additional  loading  areas  are  provided. 

Comment  #95 

"Also  on  the  weekends,  there  are  two  impacts.  One,  I'm  eventually  responsible  for  the  Alemany 
Farmers  Market  on  Saturdays,  and  also  when  we  have  flea  market  on  Sundays.  Clearly  Saturdays  are 
high  impact,  because  I  can't  find  parking  down  there  at  times,  and  I  think  that  should  be  a 
consideration."  (Bill  Lee,  Planning  Commissioner) 

"I  also  don't  see  also  mention  in  this  DEIR  of  parking  impacts  on  Cortland.  You  go  to  Good  Life 
Grocery  or  the  other  stores  on  Cortland,  and  you  can't  find  a  parking  spot.  People  are  circling  the 
blocks.  We  have  the  Union  Street/Noe  Valley  syndrome  -  driving  around  five  or  ten  minutes  before 
you  find  a  parking  spot  that  then  spreads  the  pressure  out  to  the  side,  capillary  streets.  So  none  of 
that  seems  to  have  been  mentioned  here,  and  I  just  think  that  there  needs  to  be  more  data  and  more 
study  about  the  impacts  all  around  the  neighborhood."  (Chris  Witteman,  Resident) 

Response  #95 

Due  to  the  distance  of  the  commercial  district  along  Cortland  Avenue  and  the  Alemany 
Farmer's  Market  from  the  project  site  (0.3  to  0.5  mile,  respectively),  and  the  fact  the  proposed 
parking  garage  would  generally  accommodate  the  anticipated  project-related  parking 
demand,  it  is  anticipated  that  the  project  would  not  result  in  worsening  of  the  parking 
conditions  in  the  vicinity  of  the  commercial  district  along  Cortland  Avenue  and  near  the 
Farmer's  Market.  Although  the  parking  demand  associated  with  the  Alemany  Farmer's 
Market  does  commonly  spill  over  onto  Bayshore  Boulevard  on  Saturdays,  the  project  would 
not  worsen  these  conditions,  because  the  spillover  does  not  extend  up  to  Cortland  Avenue. 


Loading 

Comment  #96 

"Page  6  [of  the  DEIR]:  There  is  no  verifiable  source  of  information  for  the  following  statement: 
'Based  on  information  from  a  similar  Home  Depot  store,  it  was  estimated  that  the  proposed  project 
would  generate  30  daily  delivery  trips  per  day  (approximately  15  semi  tractor-trailers  and  15  small 
trucks/ vans).' 

"Where  is  this  store  that  the  information  is  based  on?  How  were  the  data  collected?  Over  what 
period  of  time?  By  whom?  What  methodology  was  used  to  convert  the  data  into  projections  for  this 
project?    How  does  this  information  compare  to  information  supplied  in  Home  Depot  permit 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.215 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

applications  to  other  cities  throughout  the  country?  We  need  to  be  able  to  review  the  data  before  we 
can  comment  on  its  accuracy  and/or  suitability  as  a  basis  for  projection  for  the  project. 

"Page  60  [of  the  DEIR]:  The  project  sponsor's  estimate  of  demand  for  loading  docks  has  not  been 
documented  or  verified.  The  DEIR  appears  to  rely  on  the  sponsor's  estimate  without  any  supporting 
data. 

"Page  72  [of  the  DEIR]:  The  estimate  of  loading  impacts  is  based  on  data  that  are  not  available  for 
review.  'Based  on  information  from  a  similar  Home  Depot  store,  it  was  estimated  that  the  proposed 
project  would  generate  30  daily  delivery  trips  per  day...'  Which  store?  In  what  way  similar?  How 
typical?  How  and  when  were  the  data  collected?  By  whom?"  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant; 
Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights 
Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

"Last  paragraph  [page  6]  indicates  there  will  be  about  30  daily  delivery  trips  per  day  of 
approximately  15  semi-tractor-trailers  and  15  small  trucks/vans.  The  current  project  design  shows 
the  truck  entry  on  Loomis,  but  no  discussion  of  traffic  impacts  by  these  trucks  to  the  intersections  of 
Bayshore/Oakdale,  Oakdale/Loomis,  or  Industrial  Way/Loomis.  More  discussion  is  required  of  these 
impacts  and  alternative  project  designs  to  mitigate  truck  congestion.  Further,  no  discussion  is 
provided  on  the  impact  of  these  trucks  to  neighboring  Loomis  businesses.  With  four  truck  stalls, 
further  discussion  is  warranted  on  the  project's  impact  on  existing  businesses  should  trucks  be  queued 
to  enter  the  loading  area.  See  Site  Plan  Figure  2  A-4  of  the  DEIR."  (Shelley  Bradford  Bell,  Planning 
Commission  President) 

Response  #96 

As  indicated  on  DEIR  page  60,  the  estimated  number  of  daily  deliveries  for  the  proposed 
project  was  based  on  information  provided  by  the  project  sponsor  based  on  the  loading 
activity  at  a  similar  Home  Depot  store  (Colma).  Truck  logs  from  the  nearby  Colma  Home 
Depot  store  were  used  to  estimate  a  daily  average  delivery  demand  for  the  Colma  facility 
(truck  logs  from  2003  were  used  to  confirm  earlier  loading  demand  estimates)38,  which  was 
then  adjusted  to  reflect  the  slightly  larger  size  of  the  proposed  project.  Information  from  the 
Colma  store  was  determined  to  be  most  appropriate  for  estimating  the  demand  for  the 
proposed  project  due  to  its  urban  location  and  similar  size,  and  since  the  project  sponsor 
anticipates  similar  activity  levels  to  the  Colma  store  for  the  proposed  project.  It  should  be 
noted  that  the  estimate  of  30  deliveries  a  day  is  consistent  with  the  loading  demand  that 
would  be  estimated  using  the  rate  developed  by  the  Planning  Department,  as  presented  in  the 
San  Francisco  Transportation  Guidelines.  Using  the  Planning  Department's  composite  retail 
rate  of  0.22  daily  truck  trips  per  1,000  square  feet  of  retail  use,  the  proposed  project  would  be 
estimated  to  generate  about  34  truck  trips. 


The  truck  logs  for  the  Colma  store  are  available  for  review  by  appointment  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning 
Department  at  1660  Mission  Street,  Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco,  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E!.  Truck  logs 
included  the  number  of  trucks  by  day  by  loading  characteristic  (lumber,  garden  center,  and  dock). 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.216 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

The  project  was  designed  to  ensure  that  sufficient  loading  spaces  would  be  provided  to 
effectively  accommodate  the  demand.  The  project  architects  have  indicated  that  standard 
Home  Depot  stores  of  similar  size  provide  three  loading  docks  and  one  at-grade  loading  area 
(for  the  garden  center  and  lumber);  however,  some  stores  provide  four  loading  docks.  Due 
the  urban  location  of  the  project,  and  to  ensure  that  the  loading  demand  is  adequately 
accommodated,  the  project  sponsor  is  proposing  to  provide  four  loading  docks,  in  addition  to 
the  one  at-grade  loading  area. 

Based  on  information  obtained  from  the  project  sponsor,  deliveries  to  the  project  would  occur 
throughout  the  day.  Most  of  the  30  daily  deliveries  would  occur  between  7:00  a.m.  and  5:00 
p.m.,  although  some  deliveries  may  be  scheduled  during  the  evening,  nighttime,  and  early 
morning  periods.  Thus,  on  average  there  would  be  approximately  three  deliveries  per  hour 
between  7:00  a.m.  and  5:00  p.m.,  which  could  be  accommodated  within  the  loading  spaces. 

Home  Depot  would  employ  an  on-site  loading  receiving  manager,  who  would  be  responsible 
for  scheduling  deliveries  and  to  ensure  that  there  are  no  waiting  trucks. 

In  general,  it  is  anticipated  that  most  delivery  vehicles  would  use  U.S.  101  and  1-280  to  travel 
to  and  from  the  project  site.  As  discussed  in  Response  to  Comment  #45,  Home  Depot  trucks 
typically  make  deliveries  to  several  stores  in  a  row.  As  such,  they  would  usually  come  from 
or  go  to  other  stores  on  the  Peninsula,  and  for  these  trips,  using  U.S.  101  would  be  the  most 
convenient  and  direct  route.  The  project  sponsor  has  committed  to  developing  access  routes 
for  all  Home  Depot-controlled  trucks  (which  account  for  about  40  percent  of  all  deliveries). 

Delivery  trucks  destined  to  and  from  the  project  site  would  travel  through  the  nearby  study 
intersections  of  Bayshore/Oakdale,  Bayshore/Industrial,  Oakdale/Loomis,  and  Industrial/ 
Loomis.  The  addition  of  about  30  delivery  vehicles  on  a  daily  basis  is  not  anticipated  to 
substantially  affect  operations  of  these  intersections,  due  to  the  low  volume  of  truck  activity 
on  an  hourly  basis.  In  general,  the  effect  of  large  trucks  (such  as  semi  tractor-trailers)  is  a 
lessening  of  capacity  of  streets  due  to  slower  movements  and  larger  turning  radii,  which  may 
temporarily  affect  local  traffic  and  transit  operations.  The  addition  of  a  few  new  truck  trips 
to  the  local  and  regional  network  would  not  likely  affect  the  operations  of  the  nearby  streets 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.217 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

and  would  not  result  in  any  changes  to  the  intersection  operating  conditions.  The  weekday 
PM  peak  hour  intersection  operations  analysis  accounts  for  truck  trips  to  and  from  the  project 
site  during  the  hour,  as  the  trip  generation  rates  were  based  on  actual  driveway  counts  at 
other  Home  Depot  stores.  Overall,  the  project  is  not  anticipated  to  have  a  substantial  effect  to 
operations  of  the  nearby  intersections,  and  alternate  project  designs  would  not  be  required. 

Although  Loomis  Street  does  serve  other  industrial  and  commercial  uses,  it  is  a  40-foot-wide 
street  with  one  travel  lane  in  each  direction  and  with  low  traffic  volumes  between  Oakdale 
Avenue  and  Industrial  Street  (about  200  to  250  vehicles  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour 
and  about  220  to  230  vehicles  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour).  Based  on  the  design 
of  the  project's  loading  facilities,  delivery  vehicles  would  be  able  to  drive  into  the  project  site 
and  reverse  into  the  loading  dock  without  impeding  on-street  traffic.  In  addition,  the 
proposed  supply  of  four  loading  spaces  would  be  sufficient  to  accommodate  the  project's 
loading  demand.  Therefore,  it  is  anticipated  that  delivery  vehicles  would  not  substantially 
affect  operations  along  Loomis  Street. 


Transit 

Comment  #97 

"Page  51  [of  the  DEIR:]  Transit  Network  -  The  24-Divisadero  runs  24  hours  and  is  a  major 
connecting  line.  It  connects  Bernal  Heights  to  3rd  Street,  and  will  connect  Bayview/3rd  Street  light 
rail  to  Home  Depot.  When  the  24  has  massive  problems  and  runs  have  to  be  dropped,  Muni  often 
truncates  service  at  Bayshore,  looping  the  buses  back  on  Hilton  Street.  If  there  are  problems  on  the 
24,  it  is  likely  that  service  to  Bayview  will  decrease.  (The  long  bus  stop  at  Cortland  and  Bayshore 
may  be  there  because  that  is  the  'end  of  the  line'  during  owl  service  and  when  service  is  truncated.) 

"The  44-O'Shaughnessy  does  not  run  through  Bernal  Heights.  I  think  you  mean  the  Portola  District, 
on  the  other  side  of  280."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #97 

DEIR  page  51  provides  a  description  of  the  existing  Muni  24-Divisadero  bus  route.  In 
general,  this  is  a  cross-town  route  that  provides  service  between  Pacific  Heights  and  Bayview 
Hunters  Point,  and  operates  seven  days  a  week  with  15-  to  20-minute  headways.  It  should  be 
noted  that  occasionally  the  eastbound  bus  route  is  turned  back  at  Hilton  Street  (instead  of 
continuing  to  the  end  of  the  line  at  Third  Street).  This  bus  line  will  provide  a  connection  to 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.218 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

the  future  Third  Street  light  rail  line,  which  will  be  operational  in  2005.  In  addition,  the  24- 
Divisadero  bus  line  provides  late-night  (owl)  service,  which  ends  at  Bayshore  Boulevard  with 
a  turn-around  at  Hilton  Street. 

Although  the  project  would  result  in  some  increase  to  the  average  delay  per  vehicle  at 
intersections  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site,  it  is  not  anticipated  that  the  overall  increase  in 
travel  time  for  the  Muni  24-Divisadero  bus  line  along  Cortland  Avenue  and  Bayshore 
Boulevard  would  be  substantial  enough  to  impact  operations  such  that  additional  buses  would 
be  needed.39 

The  commenter  is  correct  and  the  description  of  the  44-O'Shaughnessy  Muni 
bus  line  is  corrected.  Page  53  of  the  DEIR,  first  paragraph,  line  one,  is 
revised  to  read:  "The  44-O'Shaughnessy  is  a  cross-town  route  which  provides 
travel  between  the  Inner  Richmond,  Golden  Gate  Park,  Twin  Peaks,  Glen 
Park,  Bernal  Heights,  Portola,  Silver  Terrace,  and  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
neighborhoods." 

Comment  #98 

"Throughout  the  EIR,  it  is  stated  that  it  is  conservative  to  assume  that  all  employees  and  customers 
will  drive  to  Home  Depot.  That  may  be  so  for  calculating  traffic  levels  of  service,  but  it  is  not 
adequate  for  analyzing  impacts  on  Muni."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole 
Hardware) 

Response  #98 

DEIR  pages  68  through  70  present  the  transit  impact  analysis.  In  general,  there  are  two  types 
of  transit  impacts  analyzed  in  the  DEIR:  the  impacts  on  transit  occupancy  conditions  by  the 
new  transit  passengers  generated  by  the  project,  and  the  impact  on  bus  operations  by  the 
additional  vehicle-trips  on  the  roadway  network. 

As  discussed  in  the  DEIR  pages  68  through  70,  it  was  estimated  that  the  project  would 
generate  relatively  few  transit  trips  on  weekdays  and  weekends.  The  Transportation  Study 
indicates  that  the  bus  routes  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site  currently  have  capacity  to 

39  Telephone  conversation  between  Jim  Lowe,  Transit  Planner,  Muni,  and  Luba  Wyznyckyj,  LCW  Consulting, 
September  2,  2004. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.219 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

accommodate  additional  passengers.  As  such,  the  project  would  not  result  in  a  substantial 
increase  in  the  occupancy  of  the  nearby  bus  lines  and  would  not  result  in  a  significant  impact 
in  terms  of  transit  occupancy  conditions. 

Regarding  impacts  to  bus  operations  from  the  additional  vehicle-trips  generated  by  the 
project,  please  see  Response  to  Comment  #99. 

Comment  #99 

"Transit  Impacts:  The  DEIR  and  the  Transportation  Study  both  concede  that  the  Muni  and  SamTrans 
bus  lines  which  pass  through  the  Bayshore  corridor  will  be  impacted  by  the  slower  traffic  of  vehicles 
coming  to  and  from  the  project,  and  vehicles  lined  up  along  Bayshore  to  enter  the  parking  garage. 
The  Transportation  Study  acknowledges,  '...there  would  be  a  potential  for  conflicts  between  buses 
pulling  into  and  out  of  the  curb  bus  stop  and  project-related  traffic  turning  into  and  out  of  the  garage. 
In  addition,  pedestrians  waiting  at  the  bus  stop  would  experience  higher  levels  of  vehicle  activity 
than  currently  occurs.'1 

"The  DEIR  also  admits  that  'travel  times  for  Muni  and  SamTrans  buses  would  somewhat  increase.'2 
But  it  goes  on  to  justify  this  by  saying  it  will  be  just  as  bad  as  for  non-transit  vehicles.  'Transit 
vehicles...  would  experience  the  same  delays,  queuing,  and  levels  of  congestion  as  regular  vehicular 
traffic...  In  addition,  transit  vehicles  may  experience  minor  delays  pulling  out  from  bus  stops  into  the 
travel  lanes  as  a  result  of  the  increased  traffic  volumes  and  queues.'  This  will  be  a  particular  problem 
for  Muni's  westbound  24  Divisadero  bus  line,  which  stops  on  Bayshore  just  south  of  the  site,  then 
must  cross  the  three  lanes  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  make  the  left  turn  onto  Cortland.  Since  this  is 
where  cars  will  be  backed  up  to  get  into  the  parking  garage,  this  will  be  a  source  of  delays  for  this 
route.  This  line  already  has  enough  delays,  service  problems,  and  uncertainties  for  riders  to  endure. 
A  city  with  a  'Transit  First'  policy  should  not  allow  development  to  further  erode  the  existing  transit 
services."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair; 
and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  Transportation  Study,  9/02,  page  4-13. 

2  DEIR,  page  69. 

"The  stated  environmental  impacts  are  unacceptable.  I  point  to  the  delays  faced  by  Muni 
passengers."  (Shannon  Dodge,  Resident) 

"The  bus  stop  south  of  Cortland  on  the  east  side  of  Bayshore  will  be  affected  as  trucks  pulling  out 
will  block  the  northbound  lanes  of  Bayshore,  causing  delay  for  the  buses."  (Nic  Griffin,  Resident) 

"It  is  absurd  to  think  that  Muni  operations  will  not  be  impacted  by  the  increased  amounts  of  traffic, 
including  turning  movements  at  Cortland/Bayshore  and  Bayshore/Industrial.  With  increased 
congestion  on  southbound  Bayshore  between  Cortland  and  Industrial,  how  is  the  24  going  to  cut 
across  all  those  traffic  lanes  to  be  able  to  make  a  left  turn?  Similarly  for  northbound  traffic?  Has 
Muni  agreed  that  this  will  not  delay  their  operations?  If  the  24  runs  start  taking  longer,  what  is  the 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.220 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

incremental  cost  of  adding  an  additional  bus  during  peak  hours?"  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law, 
on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

"The  buses  down  there  are  all  great.  They  are  equipped  with  bike  racks,  that  help  people  like  me  get 
over  the  big  hill.  And  those  buses  are  also  going  to  be  impacted  -  not  just  the  24  and  9,  but  also  the 
23  that  comes  from  Crescent  -  which  will  also  suffer  greatly."  (Rachel  Kesel,  Resident) 

"[My  son]  takes  the  24  bus  to  high  school.  It  mentions  it  in  the  DEIR,  page  51,  it  mentions  that  it 
will  affect  the  24  line.  As  of  now  that  line  is  pretty  good.  Delays  on  that  are  going  to  make  it  that 
much  harder  for  him  to  go  to  the  high  school  that  he's  chosen  on  the  other  side  of  town.  I  also  think 
that  all  of  these  things  will  be  affected  by  future  stores  that  will  come  in,  and  in  every  other 
community  where  Home  Depot  has  gone,  additional  large  retail  stores  have  gone  in."  (Deborah  Levy, 
Resident) 

"The  23  and  24  Muni  bus  lines  will  be  severely  impacted.  I  am  concerned  about  the  delays  because  I 
rely  on  these  buses  to  get  me  to  different  parts  of  the  city."  (Amy  C.  Miller  and  Virginia  Bowen, 
Residents) 

Response  #99 

DEIR  pages  68  through  70  present  the  transit  impact  analysis. 

The  project  would  result  in  a  substantial  increase  in  the  number  of  vehicle-trips  on  the 
adjacent  roadway  network  (since  it  was  assumed  that  all  customers  and  employees  would 
drive  to  and  from  the  project,  this  would  result  in  a  conservative  estimate  of  the  number  of 
vehicles-trips  generated  by  the  project).  As  stated  on  page  69  of  the  DEIR,  these  new 
vehicles  may  somewhat  affect  operations  of  the  Muni  9-San  Bruno,  23-Monterey,  and  24- 
Divisadero  bus  lines  and  SamTrans  #292  and  #397  bus  lines  on  Bayshore  Boulevard, 
including  a  potential  for  conflicts  between  buses  pulling  into  and  out  of  bus  stops  and 
project-related  traffic  turning  into  and  out  of  the  garage,  and  a  potential  for  increased  travel 
times.  Even  with  the  addition  of  project-related  vehicles  to  the  roadway  network,  the 
increase  in  travel  delay  at  the  nearby  intersections,  such  as  at  the  intersection  of 
Bayshore/Cortland,  would  not  be  substantial  enough  to  significantly  increase  travel  times  and 
warrant  additional  transit  service  in  the  project  vicinity. 

The  24-Divisadero  buses  traveling  eastbound  on  Cortland  Avenue  would  turn  right  onto 
southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  during  the  eastbound-only  signal  phase  (with  the  project, 
there  would  be  separate  eastbound  and  westbound  phases).  As  such,  these  buses  would  be 
able  to  maneuver  across  the  three  travel  lanes  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  access  the 
southbound  left-turn  pocket  onto  Industrial  Street.  The  increase  in  traffic  volumes  traveling 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.221 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

eastbound  onto  Cortland  Avenue  and  turning  right  onto  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard 
would  not  be  substantial  enough  to  affect  the  ability  of  buses  to  make  this  turn. 

The  Muni  24-Divisadero  bus  stop  on  Bayshore  Boulevard,  south  of  Waterloo  Street,  and  the 
northbound  24-Divisadero's  ability  to  access  the  left-most  lane  at  the  intersection  of 
Bayshore/Cortland,  would  not  be  affected  by  vehicles  and  delivery  trucks  destined  to  and 
from  the  project  site.  Since  this  bus  stop  is  located  more  than  100  feet  south  of  the  main 
project  driveway  at  Bayshore/Cortland,  it  is  not  anticipated  that  queues  would  extend  far 
enough  to  affect  operations  of  the  bus  stop  and  buses  pulling  out  into  the  traffic  flow  and 
changing  lanes.  Although  the  Waterloo  Street  driveway  would  be  located  directly  north  of 
this  bus  stop,  this  driveway  is  anticipated  to  have  limited  use  due  to  its  location  and  access 
within  the  garage.  In  addition,  delivery  trucks  entering  the  project  would  use  Loomis  Street 
and  trucks  leaving  the  project  would  exit  onto  Bayshore  Boulevard,  north  of  the  bus  stop. 
Therefore,  delivery  trucks  would  not  affect  bus  operations  at  this  bus  stop. 

Under  Existing  plus  Project  and  2015  Cumulative  conditions  (which  assumes  additional 
growth  in  the  area),  intersections  in  the  vicinity  of  the  proposed  project  would  operate  at 
acceptable  LOS  D  or  better,  with  the  exception  of  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland, 
which  would  operate  at  LOS  F  under  2015  Cumulative  conditions.  With  implementation  of 
the  identified  mitigation  measure  for  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland,  this  intersection 
would  operate  at  LOS  C  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  LOS  D  during  the  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour.  Therefore,  even  with  increased  vehicular  volumes  associated  with  the 
2015  Cumulative  conditions,  intersection  operations  are  not  anticipated  to  worsen  to 
unacceptable  conditions.  (For  information  on  Home  Depot's  effect  on  retail  activity  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  proposed  project,  refer  to  Response  to  Comments  #18,  #24,  and  #28.)  Overall, 
it  was  determined  that  these  potential  effects  would  not  result  in  a  significant  impact  to  transit 
operations.  Muni  has  been  involved  in  review  of  the  analysis  included  in  the  transportation 
study  and  DEIR,  and  has  not  identified  any  significant  impacts.40 

See  Response  to  Comment  #48  regarding  the  assessment  of  AM  peak  hour  conditions. 


40  Ibid. 


200 1.0062E  491  Bayshore/l 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.222  July 28,2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

The  potential  growth  inducement  of  the  proposed  project  is  discussed  in  the  DEIR  on  page 
103.  Also  see  Response  to  Comment  #133  for  additional  discussion  of  growth  inducement. 

Comment  #100 

"I'm  a  resident  of  Bernal  Heights;  been  there  about  seven  years.  And  I  at  least  tried  to  read  the  DEIR, 
and  couldn't  very  well,  but  I  did  look  at  the  charts.  I'm  not  an  expert  on  any  of  this;  I  don't  know 
anything  about  traffic  and  urban  development  and  all  that  stuff  that  has  been  talked  about  by  the 
people  that  know  more.  But  the  sense  that  I  got  from  the  report,  which  I  think  everybody  has  agreed 
upon  -  those  for  and  against  -  is  that  traffic  will  definitely  increase  in  that  area,  and  the  air  quality 
will  be  worse.  It  is  only  a  degree  of  whether  people  think  it  is  going  to  be  a  not-significant  increase 
or  a  significant  increase,  and  I  think  that  that  determines  where  people  stand.  But  it  is  definitely 
going  to  get  worse  in  all  areas.  So  I  would  just  like  to  say  on  that  alone,  just  on  the  DEIR,  I  would  be 
opposed  to  a  150,000-square-foot  home  improvement  store  that  would  increase  traffic  by  over  700 
cars  on  a  weekday,  and  1,100  on  a  weekend.  I  think  that's  a  significant  amount  to  anyone.  And  I 
don't  make  it  to  City  Hall  very  often,  and  I  certainly  never  made  it  to  one  of  these  hearings,  but  I  was 
very,  very  happy  to  hear  that  on  a  previous  item  you  said  that  you  are  a  transit  first;  you  have  a 
transit-first  policy.  I  don't  see  how  anyone  reading  this  DEIR  could  interpret  it  by  any  means  being  a 
transit-first  policy."  (Larry  Dean,  Resident) 

"The  character  of  this  site  will  change  dramatically  to  visibly  a  major  big  box  site.  Where  in  San 
Francisco  is  there  a  store  nearly  800  feet  in  length  -  with  no  relationship  to  the  street  or  pedestrians? 
This  building  'reads'  as  a  suburban  auto-dependent  store.  Although  Whole  Earth  and  Goodman's  had 
a  lot  of  auto  traffic,  they  also  had  a  lot  of  customers  who  came  on  transit.  Those  buildings  were  also 
of  a  greatly  reduced  scale  compared  to  Home  Depot.  Please  discuss  how  this  project  turns  the  city's 
transit-first  policies  on  its  ear.  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware,  written 
comments 

Because  they  have  assumed  that  everyone  is  going  to  drive,  there  is  no  analysis  of  pedestrians  or 
Muni  impacts.  It  is  just  factored  out  of  this.  This  project  is  the  antithesis  of  a  transit-first  project. 
Their  assumption  is  no  one  is  going  to  use  transit.  They  didn't  do  an  analysis  of  increased  transit 
ridership  for  the  workers,  let  alone  for  their  customers,  and  you  are  going  to  have  a  street  frontage 
that  is  suburban  street  frontage."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware,  oral 
testimony) 

Response  #100 

The  project  does  not  substantially  conflict  with  the  ten  principles  that  constitute  the  City's 
Transit-First  Policy.  In  general,  the  purpose  of  the  policy  is  to  emphasize  the  use  of  non- 
automobile  modes,  and  to  give  priority  to  transit.  The  policy  does  not  regulate  the  types  of 
land  uses  that  are  allowed  in  the  city.  The  ten  principles  as  stated  in  the  City  Charter,  Section 
16.102.  are: 

1.  To  ensure  quality  of  life  and  economic  health  in  San  Francisco,  the  primary  objective 
of  the  transportation  system  must  be  the  safe  and  efficient  movement  of  goods  and 
people. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.223 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

2.  Public  transit,  including  taxis  and  vanpools,  is  an  economically  and  environmentally 
sound  alternative  to  transportation  by  individual  automobiles.  Within  San  Francisco, 
travel  by  public  transit,  by  bicycle  and  on  foot  must  be  an  attractive  alternative  to 
travel  by  private  automobile. 

3.  Decisions  regarding  the  use  of  limited  public  street  and  sidewalk  space  shall 
encourage  the  use  of  public  rights-of-way  by  pedestrians,  bicyclists,  and  public 
transit,  and  shall  strive  to  reduce  traffic  and  improve  public  health  and  safety. 

4.  Transit  priority  improvements,  such  as  designated  transit  lanes  and  streets  and 
improved  signalization,  shall  be  made  to  expedite  the  movement  of  public  transit 
vehicles  (including  taxis  and  vanpools)  and  to  improve  pedestrian  safety. 

5.  Pedestrian  areas  shall  be  enhanced  whenever  possible  to  improve  the  safety  and 
comfort  of  pedestrians  and  to  encourage  travel  by  foot. 

6.  Bicycling  shall  be  promoted  by  encouraging  safe  streets  for  riding,  convenient  access 
to  transit,  bicycle  lanes,  and  secure  bicycle  parking. 

7.  Parking  policies  for  areas  well  served  by  public  transit  shall  be  designed  to  encourage 
travel  by  public  transit  and  alternative  transportation. 

8.  New  transportation  investment  should  be  allocated  to  meet  the  demand  for  public 
transit  generated  by  new  public  and  private  commercial  and  residential  developments. 

9.  The  ability  of  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  to  reduce  traffic  congestion 
depends  on  the  adequacy  of  regional  public  transportation.  The  City  and  County 
shall  promote  the  use  of  regional  mass  transit  and  the  continued  development  of  an 
integrated,  reliable,  regional  public  transportation  system. 

10.  The  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  shall  encourage  innovative  solutions  to  meet 
public  transportation  needs  whenever  possible  and  where  the  provision  of  such 
service  will  not  adversely  affect  the  service  provided  by  the  Municipal  Railway. 

As  stated  on  page  3  of  the  DEIR,  the  project  site  is  within  an  M-l  (Light  Industrial)  zoning 
district,  which  provides  land  for  smaller  industries  dependant  upon  truck  transportation,  but 
allows  for  most  other  uses.  The  project's  retail  land  use  is  consistent  with  the  zoning 
designation  and  is  similar  to  previous  uses  on  the  project  site.  Although  the  project's  land  use 
requires  that  most  customers  drive,  this  does  not  mean  that  customers  and  employees  cannot 
use  the  adjacent  bus  lines  if  desired.  The  project  would  not  result  in  any  significant  impacts 
to  traffic,  transit  (including  Muni  bus  operations),  pedestrians  and  bicycle  circulation,  and 
does  not  conflict  with  the  zoning.  The  size  and  configuration  of  the  project  would  also  be 
consistent  with  the  M-l  zoning  district. 

See  Responses  to  Comments  #5  through  #11  for  street  frontage  and  design  issues,  and 
Responses  to  Comments  #115  through  #126  regarding  air  quality  issues. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.224 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Comment  #101 

"Public  Transit  Issues.  This  issue  has  not  been  adequately  addressed.  Will  there  be  new  bus  stops? 
Where  will  they  be  located?  How  much  new  transit  patronage  will  be  generated?  Can  the  existing 
bus  routes  accommodate  this  new  patronage?  If  not,  has  Home  Depot  been  required  to  contribute  to 
any  improvements?  There  are  clearly  many  questions  that  the  Draft  EIR  does  not  address."  (Charles 
M.  Abrams,  President,  Abrams  Associates) 

Response  #101 

The  project  would  not  include  any  new  bus  stops  or  require  the  permanent  relocation  of  bus 
stops  for  Muni  or  SamTrans,  since  the  proposed  driveway  locations  would  not  affect 
operations  of  the  existing  stops.  In  addition,  construction  of  the  project  would  not  require  the 
temporary  relocation  of  any  Muni  or  SamTrans  bus  stops. 

Due  to  the  nature  of  the  project's  land  use,  it  is  anticipated  that  almost  all  customers  would 
use  private  autos  to  access  the  project.  As  a  result,  the  project  would  generate  relatively  few 
transit  trips  on  weekdays  and  weekends,  which  would  likely  be  generated  by  employees  or 
customers  from  the  nearby  area.  As  such,  there  would  not  be  a  substantial  increase  in  the 
number  of  riders  on  the  adjacent  transit  lines,  and  transit  load  factors  would  not  be  affected. 

Since  the  project  would  have  less-than-significant  transit  operations  impacts,  no  mitigation 
measures  were  required  and  none  were  proposed  in  the  DEIR. 

Comment  #102 

"Employee  Transit  policy  issues  -  Will  Home  Depot  be  required  to  sell  transit  passes?  Will  Home 
Depot  be  required  to  have  a  policy  encouraging  transit  usage?  How  will  this  be  implemented?  The 
assumption  in  this  EIR  is  that  all  employees  will  drive.  Please  discuss  how  this  does  not  meet  City 
goals  and  policies."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

Response  #102 

According  to  the  project  sponsor,  transit  subsidies  are  not  one  of  the  benefits  provided  to 
employees  at  Home  Depot.  However,  the  project  sponsor  would  consider  other  means  to 
encourage  the  use  of  alternate  modes  of  travel,  including  reserving  parking  spaces  closer  to 
the  entrance/exit  for  employees  who  carpool.  As  stated  on  DEIR  page  72,  the  project  would 
provide  28  bicycle  parking  spaces,  four  showers  and  eight  clothes  lockers  for  employees. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.225 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

These  facilities  serve  to  encourage  and  accommodate  bicycling  and  walking  to  and  from 
work  by  employees. 

In  general,  due  to  the  nature  and  typical  location  of  Home  Depot  stores,  very  few  employees 
take  transit,  walk  or  bike  to  and  from  work.  Since  the  project  would  be  located  in  a  more 
urban  and  transit/walk/bicycle-accessible  area  than  most  other  Home  Depot  locations,  it  is 
possible  that  some  employees  may  commute  via  these  non-vehicular  modes.  However,  for 
the  purpose  of  the  transportation  analysis  conducted  for  the  DEIR,  it  was  assumed  that  all 
employee  trips  would  be  via  single-occupant  private  vehicles.  This  assumption  results  in  a 
conservative  estimate  of  the  number  of  vehicle-trips  and  parking  demand  generated  by  the 
project,  and  therefore  results  in  a  conservative  analysis  of  the  traffic  and  parking  impacts 
associated  with  the  project.  It  should  be  noted  that  this  assumption  does  not  preclude  the 
possibility  and  likelihood  that  some  employees  and  customers  would  take  transit  to  the 
project,  and  does  not  discourage  the  use  of  transit  by  employees  and  customers.  If  employees 
were  to  use  transit,  the  number  of  vehicle-trips  and  the  parking  demand  associated  with  the 
project  would  be  reduced. 

The  City's  Transit  First  policy  (San  Francisco  Charter  Section  16.102)  provides  principles  to 
ensure  safe  and  efficient  movement  of  people  and  goods,  and  to  encourage  travel  by  public 
transportation  and  alternate  modes,  and  to  further  invest  in  the  public  transit  network.  It  does 
not,  however,  include  City  goals  or  specific  policies/procedures  or  require  that  employees  use 
transit.  For  information  on  the  ten  Transit  First  principles,  see  Response  to  Comment  #100. 

Cumulative  Impacts 

Comment  #103 

"The  cumulative  analysis  of  the  year  2015.  I  think,  in  looking  at  all  of  these,  comparing  these 
numbers  to  the  existing  ones,  some  of  those  numbers  have  been  greatly  understated.  It  is  curious  that 
all  five  of  the  intersections  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  are  just  ever-so-slightly  below  the  City  standard; 
you  have  a  standard  of  40  seconds  of  delay,  above  which  mitigation  is  needed  to  be  made.  Five  of 
the  intersections  are  in  the  range  of  35  to  39  seconds  of  delay,  and  there  are  so  many.  There's  an 
awful  lot  different  assumptions  that  go  into  that  process,  not  the  least  of  which  is  the  other 
development  in  the  area;  growth  of  background  traffic;  the  existing  counts  were  done  at  a  time  when 
traffic  was  much  lower  than  normal. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.226 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

"Cumulative  Traffic  Forecasts  (2015).  The  traffic  model  results  shown  in  the  DEIR  for  the  various 
intersections  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  are  very  questionable,  and  do  not  appear  to  reflect  the  true 
growth  in  this  corridor.  An  extremely  simplified  cumulative  analysis  was  prepared  for  this  project 
using  a  basic  1  percent  per  year  instead  of  basing  it  on  the  actual  potential  for  future  development  in 
the  area.  A  project  of  this  size  in  an  area  with  many  underutilized  parcels  should  be  required  to  take 
a  more  thorough  approach  to  determining  the  significance  of  the  project's  contribution  to  cumulative 
conditions."  (Charles  M.  Abrams,  President,  Abrams  Associates) 

"I  would  like  the  City  to  consider  the  long-term  impacts.  We  have  seen  the  2015  traffic  projection, 
but  there  has  not  been  an  acknowledgment  in  the  DEIR  of  the  other  stores  that  would  be  induced  into 
that  area,  and  I  think  the  City  is  in  a  position,  at  this  point  in  time  -  per  the  adage  of  planning  to  fail  - 
there  has  been  a  failure  to  plan  for  this,  and  a  failure  to  account  for  the  traffic  increases  that  this 
DEIR  projects,  in  addition  to  the  other  DEIRs;  that  mitigations  that  are  proposed  for  Home  Depot, 
sized  as  it  is  for  the  preferred  alternatives  -  may,  in  combination  with  future  development,  not  be 
adequate  to  deal  with  the  traffic  impacts  for  Cortland  Avenue  and  Bayshore  Avenue.  So  I  would 
encourage  the  Commission  and  the  City  to  take  a  moment  to  look  and  ask  that  Home  Depot  look  at 
the  future  growth,  and  the  City  would  look  to  the  future  growth  impacts  as  has  been  addressed  by  the 
commenters."  (Jim  Allison,  Resident) 

"Pages  75-81  [of  the  DEIR]:  The  analysis  understates  cumulative  traffic  impacts.  The  DEIR  does 
not  consider  daily  traffic  volumes.  Limiting  the  analysis  to  peak  hour  traffic  ignores  the  impacts 
caused  by  the  full  daily  load,  both  on  local  streets  and  regional  roadways.  The  analysis  does  not 
account,  in  particular,  for  congestion  on  U.S.  101  that  has  in  effect  extended  the  peak  to  most  of  the 
day,  with  a  corresponding  increase  in  aggregate  delay."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant; 
Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights 
Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

"The  issue  about  2015,  I  think  we  should  take  a  look  at.  I  think  the  loss  of  service  will  have  an 
impact  in  that  neighborhood,  depending  on  what  else  we  do  in  that  area."  (Bill  Lee,  Planning 
Commissioner) 

"I  have  heard  all  the  comments,  and  I'm  a  lay  person  reading  a  draft  EIR,  as  well  as  the  supplemental 
traffic  report,  and  I  can  tell  you  with  my  yellow  highlighter  that  I  got  very  concerned  about  the  'F' 
marking  on  traffic  studies,  as  well  as  the  D's,  and  the  projection  out  to  2015  -  with  nothing  taken  into 
consideration  about  the  proposal  that  we  have  all  heard,  and  are  aware  of,  of  what  else  is  going  to  be 
happening  in  the  corridor.  I'm  asking  you  to  take  a  look  at  the  big  picture.  As  a  third-generation  San 
Franciscan,  San  Francisco  has  been  well  known  for  not  planning  ahead,  and  I'm  asking  you  as 
commissioners  to  please  look  at  the  future  for  the  Bernal  Heights  area,  as  well  as  the  Bayview  and 
surrounding  areas."  (Liz  Linale,  Resident) 

Response  #103 

As  indicated  in  the  DEIR  on  page  75,  a  growth  rate  of  one  percent  per  year  was  used  to 
develop  future  2015  Cumulative  traffic  volumes,  which  would  result  in  an  overall  growth  rate 
of  about  15  percent  between  existing  and  2015  Cumulative  conditions.  In  addition,  adjust- 
ments were  made  to  the  growth  at  specific  movements  at  the  study  intersections  to  account 
for  the  greater  potential  cumulative  growth.   This  growth  rate  was  based  on  the  Planning 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.227 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Department's  experience  with  traffic  volumes  throughout  the  City,  and  is  consistent  with 
historic  traffic  volumes  along  Bayshore  Boulevard.  See  also  Response  to  Comment  #104  for 
additional  details  regarding  the  development  of  the  future  traffic  volumes. 

There  have  not  been  any  proposals  submitted  to  the  Planning  Department  for  new 
development  or  redevelopment  of  vacant  or  underutilized  parcels  in  the  vicinity  of  the 
project.  The  growth  in  traffic  volumes,  based  on  a  growth  rate  of  15  percent,  would  account 
for  future  development  in  the  area,  plus  the  increase  in  through  traffic  from  other 
developments  outside  the  area. 

Under  20 1 5  Cumulative  conditions,  all  study  intersections  would  operate  at  LOS  D  or  better 
during  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hours,  with  the  exception  of  the 
intersection  of  Mission/Cortland.  As  indicated  on  DEIR  page  106,  a  mitigation  measure  has 
been  identified  to  improve  operating  conditions  at  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland  to 
acceptable  conditions  (LOS  D  or  better).  DPT  has  indicated  that  it  would  be  possible  to 
modify  the  existing  signal  at  this  intersection  to  accommodate  a  new  phase.  DPT  has  also 
requested  that  the  project  sponsor  pay  for  the  full  cost  of  this  signal  upgrade,  and  the  project 
sponsor  has  agreed  to  do  so.41 

On  pages  12  and  106  of  the  DEIR,  the  end  of  the  first  paragraph  is  revised  to  indicate 
that  the  project  sponsor  would  pay  for  the  mitigation:  "With  this  mitigation 
improvement  measure,  the  intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  C  during  the  weekday 
PM  peak  hour  and  LOS  D  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  The  project 
sponsor  would  pay  for  the  costs  of  this  measure." 

Since  all  other  intersections  would  operate  acceptably,  no  additional  mitigation  measures 
would  be  required. 

The  anticipated  future  increase  in  traffic  volumes  along  U.S.  101,  1-280  and  the  analysis  on- 
ramps  would  add  to  the  existing  congestion  levels  on  the  regional  roadway  network,  and 
would  cause  breakdowns  in  locations  where  excess  capacity  currently  exists.  Under  2015 

41  Letter  from  Bond  Yee,  Director  of  the  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  to  Tim  Erney,  Wilbur  Smith  Associates, 
September  7,  2004,  op  cit. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.228 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Cumulative  conditions,  all  five  of  the  study  freeway  on-ramps  would  operate  at  LOS  F 
during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  two  would  operate  at  LOS  F  during  the  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour.  These  impacts  would  be  considered  significant  and  unmitigable,  and  the 
traffic  generated  by  the  project  would  contribute  to  the  levels  of  congestion  and  poor 
operating  conditions. 

The  San  Francisco  Planning  Department's  guidelines  for  conducting  transportation  impact 
analyses  focus  on  the  potential  impacts  of  a  project  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour.  In 
general,  daily  traffic  volumes  are  not  used  to  determine  project  impacts.  Traffic  conditions 
during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  are  assessed  because  they  represent  the  worst  conditions 
of  the  local  and  regional  transportation  network.  However,  because  Home  Depot  stores 
usually  generate  more  traffic  on  weekends  than  weekdays,  an  additional  Saturday  midday 
peak  hour  analysis  was  conducted.  At  other  times,  the  traffic  volumes  on  the  adjacent  streets 
would  be  lower,  or  the  project  would  generate  fewer  vehicle-trips.  As  such,  this  analysis 
addresses  the  highest  potential  impacts  associated  with  the  project.  During  the  weekday  PM 
and  Saturday  midday  peak  hours,  the  DEIR  found  that  the  project  would  not  result  in  any 
significant  traffic  impacts.  As  a  result,  it  was  concluded  that  the  project  would  not  result  in 
any  significant  traffic  impacts  during  other  periods. 

Comment  #104 

"A  more  detailed,  more  realistic  study  of  the  cumulative  (2015)  impacts  of  the  Home  Depot  should 
be  done,  particularly  with  respect  to  the  impacts  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  between  Silver  Avenue  and 
Cesar  Chavez  [Street]." 

"The  traffic  forecasts  do  not  appear  to  include  any  other  traffic  from  'induced  growth'  projects  that 
will  surely  be  developed  on  nearby  vacant  properties,  and  underutilized  properties."  (Charles  M. 
Abrams,  President,  Abrams  Associates) 

"Projections  of  Future  Traffic  Growth  are  Seriously  Underestimated.  The  Transportation  Study 
makes  predictions  about  future  traffic  conditions,  in  the  year  2015,  by  applying  a  simple  growth 
factor  to  'current  plus  project'  projections.  Yet,  this  methodology  completely  overlooks  the  reality  of 
the  true  growth  factors  that  the  opening  of  a  big  box  project  like  Home  Depot  will  create.  Once  one 
big  box  store  opens  in  an  area,  it  launches  an  avalanche  of  development  of  other  big  box  stores 
nearby.  One  only  needs  to  look  at  nearby  Colma  or  Emeryville  to  see  this  trend.  Home  Depot  was 
one  of  the  first  anchors  in  both  of  those  areas,  which  have  since  seen  explosive  big  box  development, 
and  the  accompanying  traffic  nightmares.  Even  now,  Pier  One  has  a  lease  option  on  an  adjacent 
property  on  Bayshore  Boulevard,  contingent  on  the  Home  Depot  project  being  built.  And  the 
Planning  Department  has  plans  to  zone  the  whole  Bayshore  corridor  for  big  box  development, 
making  this  trend  a  certainty.  So,  all  the  estimates  on  future  traffic  impacts  for  this  area  are  seriously 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.229 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

under-represented  because  they  ignore  this  inevitable  explosive  big  box  growth.  All  of  the  traffic 
estimates  for  2015  need  to  be  recalculated."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle, 
Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 
Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

"Again,  you  must  include  in  your  cumulative  analysis  new  development  -  substantial  new 
development  -  in  the  Bayshore  corridor  since  that  is  what  is  planned  for  this  corridor,  and  Home 
Depot  is  assumed  to  be  an  'anchor'  for  new  development."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on 
behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

"Future  traffic  impacts  in  the  report  do  not  consider  that  Home  Depot  is  one  of  many  stores  to  go  in. 
In  Emeryville,  several  other  large  stores  followed  the  Home  Depot  project.  We  know  that  Pier  One 
Imports  will  go  in  next  to  Home  Depot  if  they  get  approval  for  this  project.  Potential  growth  in  the 
area  needs  to  be  considered  in  future  traffic  impacts."  (Amy  C.  Miller  and  Virginia  Bowen, 
Residents) 

Response  #104 

At  the  time  the  DEIR  was  prepared  and  to  date,  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  has 
not  received  any  project  information  or  future  development  plans  for  any  site  along  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  and  has  not  received  any  project  applications  for  a  Pier  One  store  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard.  In  addition,  there  are  no  Planning  Department  plans  to  rezone  Bayshore 
Boulevard  into  a  "big  box  retail"  corridor.  Bayshore  Boulevard  is  included  in  the  San 
Francisco  Redevelopment  Agency's  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Survey  Area,  and  the  project  area 
is  designated  for  a  continued  mix  of  industrial  and  commercial  uses.  The  growth  rate  of  one 
percent  per  year  would  account  for  general  increases  in  development  activity  in  the  area.  As 
such,  the  traffic  forecasts  used  for  the  project  analysis  in  the  DEIR  were  considered 
appropriate. 

For  the  development  of  future  2015  Cumulative  conditions,  an  annual  growth  rate  of  one 
percent  was  used,  plus  adjustments  to  the  growth  at  specific  movements  at  the  study 
intersections  to  account  for  greater  potential  cumulative  growth.  It  should  be  noted  that  when 
the  existing  traffic  counts  for  the  project  were  conducted  (spring  of  2001,  fall  of  2001,  and 
winter  of  2002),  the  nearby  OfficeMax  store  at  625  Bayshore  Boulevard  was  in  business; 
therefore,  the  vehicle  trips  associated  with  that  retail  use  are  included  in  the  base  counts  used 
in  the  analysis. 

These  future  growth  numbers  would  account  for  reasonably  expected  development  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  project,  including  any  new  uses  "induced"  by  the  presence  of  the  project. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.230 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Furthermore,  any  large  development  projects  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  any  future 
rezoning  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  require  separate  environmental  review,  including  an 
updated  analysis  of  cumulative  conditions. 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  ongoing  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Redevelopment  Projects  and 
Rezoning  is  currently  undergoing  environmental  analysis.42  This  study  is  currently 
evaluating  future  year  2025  Cumulative  conditions,  using  a  new  travel  demand  model  created 
by  the  San  Francisco  County  Transportation  Authority  (SFCTA).  Using  a  different 
methodology  than  that  used  for  the  DEIR,  this  model  estimated  the  future  travel  demand  for 
the  nine  counties  of  the  San  Francisco  Bay  Area,  based  on  land  use  and  employment 
projections  developed  and  adopted  by  the  Association  of  Bay  Area  Governments  (ABAG). 
These  totals  were  adjusted  by  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  to  account  for  known 
and  upcoming  projects,  and  to  factor  in  ongoing  area-wide  planning  efforts  such  as  the 
Bayview  Hunters  Point  development.  Use  of  the  year  2015  for  analysis  of  future  conditions 
for  the  proposed  project  is  standard  and  reasonable  for  estimating  cumulative  impacts  of  a 
single  development  proposal  whose  impacts  will  occur  near  term.  Analysis  of  the 
incremental  impacts  of  the  proposed  project  in  conjunction  with  growth  likely  to  take  place 
over  the  next  decade  provides  a  more  meaningful  picture  of  the  individual  project's 
contribution  to  any  significant  cumulative  effects.  On  the  other  hand,  use  of  the  year  2025 
for  analysis  of  future  cumulative  conditions  for  the  Bayview  Redevelopment  Plan  is 
reasonable  and  appropriate  as  that  analysis  considers  the  impact  of  a  broader  and  longer-term 
redevelopment  plan,  which  is  itself  a  compilation  of  many,  possible  future  cumulative 
projects  that  may  or  may  not  be  implemented  over  the  20-year  horizon. 

A  sensitivity  analysis  was  conducted  to  determine  if  the  growth  projected  by  the  SFCTA 
Model  would  be  consistent  with  the  growth  assumed  for  the  2015  Cumulative  analysis  as 
documented  in  the  DEIR.  For  this  effort,  the  average  annual  growth  rate  from  Existing 
conditions  to  year  2025  Cumulative  conditions  (based  on  the  SFCTA  Model  output)  was 
determined  for  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour.  At  the  intersections  that  were  assessed  in  both 
the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Redevelopment  Projects  and  Rezoning  analysis  and  the  proposed 


Bayview  Hunters  Point  Redevelopment  Projects  and  Rezoning  Draft  EIR,  October  19,  2004.  This  report  is  on 
file  and  available  for  public  review  by  appointment  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street, 
Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco,  as  part  of  Case  File  1996.546E. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.231 


July  28, 2005 


VTI.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

project  (Bayshore/Oakdale,  Bayshore/Industrial  and  Bayshore/Silver),  the  annual  growth  rate 
based  on  the  SFCTA  Model  output  would  be  slightly  higher  than  the  growth  rate  used  for  the 
DEIR,  due  to  the  additional  projected  development  within  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area 
that  would  occur  by  2025.  (It  should  be  noted  that  the  land  use  projections  for  2025 
conditions  in  the  SFCTA  Model  exceed  the  ABAG  forecasted  growth  for  San  Francisco.) 

This  difference  in  average  growth  rates  would  result  in  a  minor  increase  in  the  traffic 
volumes  at  the  study  intersections  for  2015  Cumulative  conditions.  As  a  result,  future  2015 
Cumulative  conditions  were  also  estimated  using  the  growth  rates  developed  from  the 
SFCTA  Model.  Overall,  it  was  determined  that  the  2015  Cumulative  intersection  operating 
conditions  using  the  SFCTA  Model  growth  rates  would  be  similar  to  the  2015  Cumulative 
conditions  developed  for  the  DEIR  (LOS  D  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Oakdale,  LOS  D 
at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Industrial  and  LOS  F  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Silver,  as 
compared  to  LOS  D  for  all  three  intersections  in  the  DEIR).  However,  the  intersection  of 
Bayshore/Silver  can  be  improved  to  LOS  D  by  establishing  a  dedicated  northbound  left-turn 
phase  (which  was  previously  identified  as  an  improvement  measure  on  page  110  of  the 
DEIR),  which  would  operate  at  LOS  D,  as  reported  in  the  DEIR  for  this  intersection. 

Preliminary  results  for  2025  Cumulative  conditions  from  the  transportation  analysis 
conducted  for  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Redevelopment  Projects  and  Rezoning  project 
indicate  that  the  land  use  projections  between  2015  and  2025  would  result  in  a  continued 
growth  in  traffic  volumes  along  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Overall,  it  was  determined  in  that 
analysis  that  of  the  three  common  study  intersections,  the  intersections  of  Bayshore/Industrial 
and  Bayshore/Silver  would  operate  with  unacceptable  conditions  of  LOS  E  or  LOS  F  in 
conjunction  with  implementation  of  the  redevelopment  plan.  Feasible  mitigation  measures 
have  not  been  identified  for  these  two  intersections,  and  the  impacts  have  been  determined  to 
be  significant  and  unavoidable. 

To  supplement  the  assessment  of  2025  Cumulative  conditions  from  the  Bayview  Hunters 
Point  Redevelopment  Projects  and  Rezoning  project,  the  growth  rate  used  to  develop  2015 
Cumulative  conditions  with  the  proposed  project  was  extended  to  year  2025.  During  the 
weekday  PM  peak  hour,  the  study  intersections  of  Bayshore/Oakdale,  Bayshore/Industrial, 
and  Bayshore/Silver  would  operate  at  LOS  D,  LOS  E  and  LOS  D,  respectively,  under  these 


200 1 .0062 E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.232 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

2025  Cumulative  conditions.  The  intersection  operating  conditions  would  be  similar  to,  or 
better  than,  those  developed  from  the  SFCTA  Model  for  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  project. 

Overall,  although  the  methodologies,  growth  rates,  and  future  years  for  the  analysis  of  the 
proposed  project  and  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Redevelopment  Projects  and  Rezoning 
project  are  different,  the  results  of  the  analyses  would  be  similar,  in  terms  of  intersection 
operating  conditions  at  the  common  study  intersections  of  Bayshore/Oakdale,  Bayshore/ 
Industrial,  and  Bayshore/Silver.  As  such,  the  intersection  analysis  contained  in  the  DEIR 
would  be  considered  consistent  with  the  analysis  conducted  for  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
Redevelopment  Projects  and  Rezoning  project,  and  the  results  using  the  one  percent  per  year 
would  be  consistent  with  growth  rates  developed  from  the  SFCTA  Model  output. 

Comment  #105 

"The  traffic  forecasts  do  not  appear  to  consider  the  major  changes  that  will  take  place  in  the  Third 
Street  corridor  that  will  clearly  cause  an  increase  in  traffic  on  Bayshore  Boulevard,  especially  large 
trucks."  (Charles  M.  Abrams,  President,  Abrams  Associates) 

"Pages  75  and  76  [of  the  DEIR]:  Assumptions  about  cumulative  conditions  underestimate  future 
traffic  congestion  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  discussion  of  cumulative  conditions  assumes  that  the 
standard  background  traffic  growth  rate  that  is  applied  generally  in  the  analysis  of  San  Francisco 
projects  will  apply  in  a  situation  where  major  changes  to  traffic  patterns  are  planned.  This  general 
assumption  is  inapplicable  to  this  project  because  truck  traffic  that  can  no  longer  use  Third  Street  will 
be  rerouted  to  Bayshore  Boulevard.  It  further  appears  that  this  highly  optimistic  projection  also 
assumes  that  there  will  be  bridges  over  Yosemite  Slough  -  a  project  that  is  unlikely  given  its  severe 
environmental  impacts  and  high  cost.  These  assumptions  require  the  EIR  to  redo  the  analysis  of 
cumulative  traffic  impacts  and  realistic  assumptions."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara 
Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 
Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #105 

As  discussed  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  75  through  77,  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Community 
Revitalization  Concept  Plan42  outlined  plans  to  develop  a  new  truck  route  for  the  Third  Street 
corridor,  which  would  restrict  trucks  on  Third  Street,  establish  a  new  truck  route  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  and  establish  new  truck  routes  on  several  east/west  streets  to  serve  Hunters  Point 
Shipyard  and  the  South  Basin  industrial  uses.  In  addition,  the  Concept  Plan  called  for 
construction  of  a  new  bridge  over  Yosemite  Slough  (this  proposed  bridge  was  not  included  in 


City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Redevelopment  Agency,  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Community  Revitalization 
Concept  Plan,  2002. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.233 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

the  traffic  analysis  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project).  Based  on  data  contained  in  the 
Third  Street  Light  Rail  Project  EIS/EIR44  (which  did  not  assume  construction  of  a  bridge  over 
the  Yosemite  Slough),  it  was  estimated  that  implementation  of  the  new  truck  route  plan  and 
implementation  of  the  Third  Street  light  rail  would  result  in  only  a  minor  increase  in  truck 
volumes  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  -  up  to  20  trucks  during  the  weekday  AM  peak  hour  and 
10  trucks  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour.  These  anticipated  increases  in  truck  traffic  are 
within  the  future  growth  projections  for  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  therefore  have  been 
accounted  for  in  the  analysis. 

Comment  #106 

"The  Draft  EIR  also  uses  an  overly  conservative  standard  of  significance  for  cumulative  traffic 
effects,  with  the  result  being  that  the  project's  contribution  to  cumulative  impacts  in  2015  appears  far 
larger  than  it  truly  will  be.  The  Draft  EIR  (at  pages  79-81)  assesses  the  project's  contribution  to 
impacted  intersections  and  on-ramps  in  2015,  and  bases  the  significance  determinations  on  the 
project's  percentage  contribution  to  the  traffic  growth  between  now  and  2015,  as  opposed  to  the 
project's  percentage  contribution  to  the  total  traffic  volumes  at  the  impacted  locations.  We  believe 
that  use  of  the  latter  numbers  (which  are,  of  course,  much  lower)  is  the  approach  suggested  by 
CEQA.  CEQA  directs  that  the  EIR  first  consider  whether  the  cumulative  (2015)  conditions  at 
intersections  and  on-ramps  are  significant,  looking  at  the  future  total  amount  of  projected  traffic  at 
the  impacted  locations.  Then,  to  calculate  the  project's  effects,  the  EIR  must  determine  whether  'the 
effects  of  the  project  are  cumulatively  considerable'  at  those  significant  locations.  CEQA  Guidelines 
§  15064(i)(l).  'Cumulatively  considerable'  means  that  the  incremental  effects  of  an  individual 
project  are  considerable  when  viewed  in  connection  with  past  projects,  the  effects  of  other  current 
projects,  and  the  effects  of  probable  future  projects.'  Id.  Particularly  since  the  term  'past  projects' 
(i.e.,  the  existing  environmental  setting)  is  used,  the  direction  is  to  consider  the  amount  that  the 
project  contributes  to  the  overall,  total  traffic  problem,  not  just  to  the  increase  in  traffic  between  now 
and  2015.  Again,  we  are  not  necessarily  recommending  that  the  City  alter  the  conservative  approach 
of  the  Draft  EIR,  but  we  do  think  it  is  important  for  decision-makers  to  understand  the  conservative 
nature  of  the  approaches  selected,  which  likely  overstate  project  impacts."  (Anna  C.  Shimko, 
Attorney  at  Law  for  Home  Depot) 

Response  #106 

The  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  looks  at  both  the  contribution  of  project-generated 
vehicle-trips  to  the  total  2015  Cumulative  conditions  traffic  volumes,  and  to  the  growth  in 
traffic  volumes  between  existing  and  2015  Cumulative  conditions.  The  project's  contribution 
to  the  anticipated  growth  would  be  considered  significant  to  study  freeway  on-ramps 
operating  at  LOS  F  (all  five  on-ramps  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  and  U.S.  101  at 


City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Planning  Department  and  Federal  Transit  Administration,  Third  Street  Light 
Rail  Project  Final  EIS/EIR,  November  1998.  This  report  is  available  for  public  review  by  appointment  at  the  San 
Francisco  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street,  Fifth  Floor,  as  part  of  Case  File  96.28  IE. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.234 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Alemany  and  U.S.  101  at  Bayshore  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour)  and  at  the 
intersection  of  Mission/Cortland  during  both  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  peak 
hours. 

Comment  #107 

"Page  7,  last  paragraph  indicates  that  future  operating  conditions  on  101  and  280  will  worsen  and 
that  the  proposed  project's  contribution  to  the  poor  on-ramp  conditions  would  be  considered  a 
significant  unavoidable  cumulative  impact.  This  requires  additional  discussion  of  improvement 
conditions  that  could  be  provided  by  the  project  sponsor,  as  well  as  further  analysis  of  the  proposed 
design  for  alternatives  that  may  address  and  alleviate  this  impact."  (Shelley  Bradford  Bell,  Planning 
Commission  President) 

Response  #107 

Freeway  on-ramp  operations  are  dictated  by  the  traffic  volumes  on  mainline  freeways.  By 
2015,  there  is  anticipated  to  be  a  substantial  increase  in  traffic  volumes  from  future 
development  in  San  Francisco  and  the  region,  resulting  in  an  increase  in  congestion  on  U.S. 
101  and  the  nearby  on-ramps.  As  a  result,  all  five  of  the  study  on-ramps  would  operate  at 
LOS  F  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  in  2015.  In  general,  the  poor  operating  conditions 
at  the  study  on-ramps  would  be  a  result  of  the  anticipated  increase  in  traffic  volumes  along 
the  freeway  mainline. 

To  alleviate  poor  operating  conditions  along  U.S.  101,  1-280  and  the  study  on-ramps, 
additional  freeway  mainline  capacity  would  be  needed.  Any  potential  improvements  to  the 
on-ramps,  including  the  provision  of  additional  lanes  or  wider  shoulders,  would  not  allow  for 
more  vehicles  to  enter  the  freeway.  So,  any  such  on-ramp  improvements  would  not  result  in 
substantial  enhancements  to  conditions  at  the  on-ramp  junction  with  the  mainline  travel  lane. 

As  a  result,  the  project  sponsor  would  not  be  able  to  implement  any  improvement  or 
mitigation  measures  to  reduce  the  significant  impact  at  the  study  intersections,  and  the 
project's  contribution  to  the  future  on-ramp  conditions  would  be  considered  a  significant 
unmitigable  impact.  If  the  Planning  Commission  were  to  approve  a  project  that  would  have 
an  adverse  environmental  effect,  it  is  required  under  CEQA  to  balance  the  economic,  legal, 
social,  technological,  or  other  benefits  of  the  project  against  its  unavoidable  environmental 
risks.  In  order  to  approve  the  project,  the  Planning  Commission  must  issue  a  Statement  of 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.235 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Overriding  Considerations  that  would  state  the  specific  reasons  to  support  its  action 
supported  by  substantial  evidence  in  the  record. 

With  all  project  alternatives  (as  documented  on  pages  115  though  127  of  the  DEIR),  there 
would  still  be  LOS  F  operating  conditions  at  the  study  freeway  on-ramps,  and  each 
alternative  would  continue  to  have  significant  unmitigable  traffic  impacts  at  the  five  study 
on-ramps,  with  the  exception  of  the  No  Project  alternative  and  Alternative  C  (60,000-square- 
foot  store),  which  would  have  unmitigable  impacts  at  four  of  the  five  study  on-ramps  (none 
of  the  alternatives  would  have  significant  air  quality  impacts).  In  addition,  changes  to  the 
access  plan  for  the  project  (i.e.,  relocating  driveways)  would  not  result  in  a  rerouting  of 
traffic  patterns  that  would  result  in  fewer  vehicles  on  the  regional  roadway  network.  See 
Response  to  Comment  #74  for  the  analysis  of  six  access  plan  options  for  the  project.  It 
should  be  noted  that  under  the  various  access  options,  the  project  would  continue  to  have 
significant  unmitigable  impacts  at  the  five  study  on-ramps. 


Other  Transportation  Issues 

Comment  #108 

"The  DEIR  does  not  address  congestion  impacts  to  the  neighborhood.  The  DEIR  has  a  very  limited 
portrayal  of  the  significance  of  increased  congestion.  The  DEIR  considers  the  impact  of  congestion 
only  in  terms  of  time  to  access  the  freeway  or  to  make  turns.  It  does  not  consider  the  impact  of 
having  streets  that  are  continuously  impassable  and  clogged  on  the  neighborhood  and  the  quality  of 
life  for  people  who  live  in  it.  It  also  does  not  consider  the  public  safety  implications  of  having 
clogged  access  to  areas  to  which  there  are  few  options  for  access  to  emergency  vehicles."  (Amy  D. 
Kyle,  Ph.D.,  M.P.H.,  Resident) 

"We  are  close  to  SF  General  Hospital,  a  regional  Trauma  Center.  Bayshore  Boulevard  feeds  directly 
onto  this  Potrero  Avenue  site.  Has  the  impact  of  this  congestion  been  considered  on  emergency 
services  for  our  county?  I  also  wonder  about  the  impact  upon  emergency  services  to  Bernal  Heights. 
We  do  have  a  fire  station  locally,  but  what  about  police,  ambulance,  and  other  essential  services?" 
(Eugenie  Marek,  Resident) 

Response  #108 

It  is  not  anticipated  that  the  proposed  project  would  have  any  public  safety  implications  with 
respect  to  emergency  vehicle  access.  While  the  project  would  result  in  an  increase  in  the 
number  of  vehicles  on  roadways  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site,  it  would  not  result  in 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.236 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


oversaturated  traffic  conditions  on  the  roadways,  conditions  that  may  impede  emergency 
vehicles.  In  addition,  although  the  project  would  result  in  an  increase  to  the  average  delay 
per  vehicle  at  the  study  intersections,  these  increases  are  not  anticipated  to  result  in 
substantial  congestion  or  lengthy  delay  to  traffic  flow.  As  indicated  in  the  DEIR  on  page  61, 
all  study  intersections  in  the  vicinity  of  the  proposed  project  would  operate  at  acceptable  LOS 
D  or  better  under  Existing  plus  Project  conditions  and  under  2015  Cumulative  conditions 
(with  implementation  of  the  proposed  mitigation  measure  at  the  intersection  of 
Mission/Cortland).  The  anticipated  increase  in  vehicles  on  eastbound  and  westbound 
Cortland  Avenue  (106  vehicles  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  and  159  vehicles  during 
the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour)  would  not  be  sufficient  to  substantially  affect  traffic 
operations  as  to  impede  emergency  vehicle  access  to  residents  and  businesses  along  the 
street. 

For  discussion  of  improvements  that  would  be  implemented  to  reduce  the  effects  of  vehicles 
on  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood  as  part  of  the  South  Bernal  Heights  Traffic  Calming 
Study  (Final  Report,  November  2002),  see  Response  to  Comment  #54. 

Comment  #109 

"You  are  all  planning  professionals;  I'm  sure  you  have  heard  of  Jane  Jacobs,  a  woman  who  wrote 
about  community,  and  I  don't  know  if  this  is  coming  under  the  rubric  of  an  EIR,  but  it  seems  to  me 
that  an  environmental  impact  is  a  sort  of  immunity  bill,  and  if  we're  going  to  have  big-box  alley 
down  there,  we're  going  to  have  a  deracinated,  sterile  community  like  you  have  now  in  Colma.  I 
think  that  should  have  been  looked  at:  how  this  will  tie  in  with  transit;  how  it  will  tie  in  with  foot 
traffic  - 1  don't  see  any  of  that  here."  (Chris  Witteman,  Resident) 

Response  #109 

Issues  related  to  the  appropriateness  of  the  project,  the  relevance  of  community  planning 
commentary,  and  the  works  of  well-known  urban  planners  are  beyond  the  scope  of  the  EIR. 
The  purpose  of  an  EIR  is  to  identify  potential  environmental  effects  associated  with  the 
construction  and  operations  of  a  new  project.  As  part  of  the  analysis,  significant  impacts  are 
identified  and  mitigation  measures  are  developed  to  reduce  the  impacts  to  less-than- 
significant  levels  where  feasible,  and  significant  unmitigable  impacts  are  identified.  If  the 
Planning  Commission  were  to  approve  a  project  that  would  have  an  adverse  environmental 
effect,  it  is  required  by  CEQA  to  balance  the  economic,  legal,  social,  technological,  or  other 
benefits  of  the  project  against  its  unavoidable  environmental  risks. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.237 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


Land  uses  and  relevant  public  plans  for  the  project  area  are  discussed  in  Responses  to 
Comments  #18,  #26,  #27,  and  #30.  As  noted  on  page  3  of  the  DEIR,  the  project  is  a 
permitted  use,  is  consistent  with  the  zoning  designation  and  is  similar  to  previous  uses  on  the 
project  site,  as  well  as  other  businesses  in  the  area.  The  compatibility  of  the  project  with 
General  Plan  policies  will  be  considered  by  decision-makers  as  part  of  their  decision  whether 
to  approve  or  disapprove  the  proposed  project  and  any  potential  conflicts  identified  as  part  of 
that  process  would  not  alter  the  physical  environmental  effects  of  the  proposed  project. 

The  DEIR  did  address  transit  and  foot  traffic  (pedestrian  impacts)  as  part  of  the  transportation 
assessment  conducted  for  this  project.  Impact  analyses  were  conducted  for  all  modes  of 
travel,  including  transit  and  pedestrians.  The  DEIR  pages  68  through  72  present  the  transit 
and  pedestrian  impact  analyses.  Overall,  there  would  be  no  significant  impacts  to  transit  and 
pedestrian  circulation  and  conditions. 

Due  to  the  nature  and  location  of  Home  Depot  stores,  very  few  customers  and  employees 
take  transit,  walk  or  bike  to  and  from  the  project  site.  Since  the  project  would  be  located  in  a 
more  urban  and  transit/walk/bicycle-accessible  area  than  most  other  Home  Depot  locations,  it 
is  likely  that  more  employees  and  visitors  may  travel  to  and  from  the  project  via  these  non- 
vehicular  modes. 

See  also  Response  to  Comment  #5  regarding  pedestrian  access  to  the  project  site,  and 
Responses  to  Comments  #37,  #38,  and  #39  concerning  urban  design  and  the  project 
streetscape. 

Comment  #110 

"I  live  in  Bernal,  and  I'm  a  third  generation  San  Franciscan.  I  believe  that  the  DEIR  makes  it  clear 
that  Home  Depot  on  Bayshore  is  not  going  to  be  good  for  Bernal,  or  for  the  rest  of  the  city.  I  think 
that  it  completely  underestimates  the  traffic  impacts,  and  not  only  that,  but  the  social  impacts  this 
will  have  on  the  city.  I'm  going  to  start  by  talking  about  the  two  things  that  affect  me  the  most.  I 
have  two  children,  and  one  is  in  5th  grade  and  one  is  in  high  school.  The  5th  grader  relies  on 
Laidlaw  buses,  the  yellow  buses,  to  get  to  school,  as  do  most  of  the  kids  in  the  public  schools  in  the 
city.  And  Laidlaw  is  on  the  other  side  of  Bayshore.  My  kids  get  on  the  school  bus  at  7:15  in  the 
morning  to  get  to  school,  and  the  kids  who  come  from  Bayview  get  on  that  bus  at  10  to  7:00.  I  think 
there  is  no  doubt  that  there  will  be  some  delay  at  those  hours  on  Bayshore  because  of  the  traffic. 
Those  are  the  peak  hours  for  contractors  and  carpenters  to  go  buy  stuff  at  a  place  like  Home  Depot. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.238 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

So  Laidlaw:  Even  a  10-minute  delay  to  have  those  kids  get  on  the  bus  at  Bayview  at  close  to  6:30  in 
the  morning  -  is  close  to  denying  them  the  option  of  even  going  to  school  at  some  of  the  other 
schools  in  the  city.  (Deborah  Levy,  Resident,  oral  testimony) 

"The  traffic  impacts  will  be  huge,  and  even  bigger  as  other  large  retail  stores  join  Home  Depot.  This 
will  slow  down  Laidlaw  school  buses  in  the  mornings,  as  well  as  the  24  bus  my  son  takes  cross-town 
to  his  high  school."  (Deborah  Levy,  Resident,  written  comment) 

"The  proposed  Home  Depot,  if  built  as  planned  on  that  huge  scale,  will  cause  traffic  along  Bayshore 
Boulevard  and  at  the  freeway  on-ramps  and  off-ramps  that  will  be  irreversible  and  unacceptable.  As 
it  is  now,  Bayshore  is  an  extremely  busy  street,  and  at  peak  hours  the  traffic  slows  to  a  crawl  and  is 
backed  up.  As  the  school  bus  company  is  located  on  Jerrold  Avenue  near  Bayshore,  the  school  buses 
that  transport  our  children  will  be  captive  to  the  additional  traffic  delays  along  Bayshore  Boulevard." 
(Rosanne  Liggett,  Resident) 

Response  #110 

The  additional  traffic  generated  by  the  proposed  project  and  increase  in  vehicle  delays  at  the 
study  intersections  are  not  anticipated  to  substantially  impact  the  operations  of  the  Laidlaw 
school  buses,  although  their  travel  times  during  peak  periods  of  street  traffic  may  somewhat 
increase.  DEIR  pages  61  through  68  document  the  increase  in  vehicular  delays  and  levels  of 
service  conditions  at  intersections  most  likely  to  be  affected  by  the  project.  Under  Existing 
plus  Project  conditions  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  all  study  intersections  would 
operate  at  acceptable  levels  of  service  (LOS  D  or  better),  although  the  average  delays  per 
vehicle  would  somewhat  increase  over  existing  conditions.  Response  to  Comment  #48 
describes  the  results  of  the  assessment  of  weekday  AM  peak  hour  conditions  at  the  study 
intersections.  In  general,  these  intersections  would  operate  with  similar  conditions  as  during 
the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  (LOS  D  or  better).  As  a  result,  additional  delays  to  Laidlaw 
buses  as  a  result  of  the  project  would  be  minimal  during  this  time. 

The  project  is  not  anticipated  to  affect  the  operations  of  school  buses  pulling  into  and  out  of 
the  Laidlaw  school  bus  yard  north  of  Oakdale  Avenue  at  Jerrold  Avenue  and  Napoleon 
Street.  School  buses  generally  leave  the  bus  yard  before  7:00  a.m.  to  pick  up  students  at 
home,  and  leave  the  bus  yard  by  2:00  p.m.  to  pick  up  students  at  school.  These  times  do  not 
overlap  with  the  peak  periods  of  traffic  congestion  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  As  such,  school 
buses  would  not  be  delayed  substantially  due  to  vehicles  destined  to  and  from  the  project. 

The  travel  demand  to  and  from  the  project  in  the  morning  (before  7:00  a.m.,  when  Laidlaw 
buses  leave  the  yard  to  pick  up  students  at  home)  and  early  afternoon  (before  2:00  p.m.,  when 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.239 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

Laidlaw  buses  leave  the  yard  to  pick  up  students  at  school)  is  anticipated  to  be  substantially 
less  than  during  the  PM  peak  hour.  Since  the  morning  and  early  afternoon  traffic  volumes 
and  levels  of  congestion  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  are  generally  lower  than  in  the  evening,  it  is 
not  anticipated  that  the  project  would  substantially  impact  or  delay  Laidlaw  bus  operations. 
Based  on  the  results  of  the  intersection  operations  analysis,  the  project  is  anticipated  to 
increase  delays  to  Cortland  Avenue  traffic  at  the  study  intersections  of  Cortland/ Andover  and 
Cortland/Folsom  by  less  than  five  seconds  per  vehicle. 

Comment  #111 

"Home  Depot  is  not  like  any  other  store.  People  will  come  from  all  around.  If  you  were  to  have  a 
project  such  as  a  market,  it  would  have  less  traffic  implications  for  Bernal  Heights."  (Amy  C.  Miller 
and  Virginia  Bowen,  Residents) 

Response  #111 

The  distribution  of  customers  to  the  proposed  Home  Depot  was  based  on  a  market  research 
analysis  conducted  by  Home  Depot.  In  general,  the  trip  distribution  rates  developed  from  the 
market  research  analysis  are  similar  to  those  established  in  the  San  Francisco  Transportation 
Guidelines  for  retail  uses,  such  as  a  supermarket,  in  this  quadrant  of  the  city,  except  that  the 
market  research  analysis  does  not  assume  any  customers  from  the  North  Bay  or  East  Bay  due 
to  the  location  of  other  Home  Depot  stores.  Comparison  of  the  trip  distribution  from  the 
market  research  analysis  versus  distributions  from  the  San  Francisco  Transportation 
Guidelines  for  retail  uses  is  as  follows:  Superdistrict  1  with  four  percent  of  the  trips  versus 
six  percent  from  the  San  Francisco  Transportation  Guidelines,  Superdistrict  2  with  eight 
percent  of  the  trips  versus  nine  percent  from  the  San  Francisco  Transportation  Guidelines, 
Superdistrict  3  with  59  percent  of  the  trips  versus  61  percent  from  the  San  Francisco 
Transportation  Guidelines,  Superdistrict  4  with  five  percent  of  the  trips  versus  five  percent 
from  the  San  Francisco  Transportation  Guidelines,  and  24  percent  from  outside  of  San 
Francisco  versus  19  percent  from  the  San  Francisco  Transportation  Guidelines. 

As  discussed  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  57  and  58  and  previously  in  Response  to  Comment  #41, 
the  travel  demand  for  the  project  was  based  on  counts  of  similar  Home  Depot  stores 
throughout  California.  Overall,  it  was  estimated  that  the  project  would  generate  848  vehicle- 
trips  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  1,268  vehicle-trips  during  the  Saturday  midday 
peak  hour. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.240 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


The  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  has  standard  trip  generation  and  modal  split  rates  for 
supermarkets,  which  are  published  in  its  Transportation  Impact  Analysis  Guidelines  for 
Environmental  Review  (October  2002)  document.  These  rates  were  developed  by  the 
Planning  Department  as  a  compilation  of  data  from  various  studies  and  sources,  including  the 
Citywide  Travel  Behavior  Study,  the  ITE  Trip  Generation  manual  and  special  purpose 
studies,  several  of  which  were  conducted  in  San  Francisco.  A  153,100  sq.-ft.  supermarket  at 
the  project  site  would  generate  about  1,264  vehicle-trips  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour. 
This  total  would  represent  about  49  percent  more  vehicle-trips  than  what  is  projected  to  be 
generated  by  the  proposed  project.  A  70,000  sq.-ft.  supermarket  and  an  83,100  sq.-ft.  general 
retail  establishment  at  the  project  site  would  generate  about  1,005  vehicle-trips  during  the 
weekday  PM  peak  hour,  which  would  be  about  19  percent  more  vehicle  trips  than  the 
proposed  project. 

Comment  #112 

"I  have  reviewed  the  Draft  EIR  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  have  a 
number  of  comments  on  the  EIR.  I  am  also  suggesting  that  there  are  several  areas  where  additional 
information  is  required  in  order  to  complete  the  environmental  review  of  the  project. 

"The  proposed  project  is  a  153,000-square-foot  Home  Depot  with  550  parking  spaces  that  is  planned 
for  the  5.7-acre  Goodman  site  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  in  San  Francisco.  It  will  generate  over  12,000 
vehicle  trips  per  day,  with  about  1,200  trips  during  the  peak  hour.  This  is  a  very  significant  generator 
for  the  City. 

"The  Draft  EIR  is  deficient  and  needs  to  be  expanded  in  several  areas  of  traffic  and  transportation. 
First  of  all,  the  traffic  mitigations  required  of  Home  Depot  are  less  than  sufficient.  A  more  thorough 
economic  analysis  is  needed  to  balance  the  impact  of  new  Home  Depot  traffic,  and  the  need  to 
upgrade  the  streets,  traffic  signals  and  other  elements  of  the  traffic  system  in  this  part  of  San 
Francisco."  (Charles  M.  Abrams,  President,  Abrams  Associates) 

Response  #112 

While  the  project  would  generate  a  substantial  number  of  vehicle-trips  on  a  daily  basis,  it 
would  not  result  in  any  significant  traffic  impacts  under  Existing  plus  Project  conditions. 
Under  2015  Cumulative  conditions,  the  project  would  have  a  significant  contribution  to  the 
poor  operating  conditions  at  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland  and  at  the  five  freeway  on- 
ramp  locations.  The  mitigation  measures  identified  in  the  DEIR  on  page  106  for  the 
intersection  of  Mission/Cortland  would  mitigate  operating  conditions  from  LOS  F  (during 
both  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour)  to  LOS  C  during  the 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.241 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  LOS  D  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  At  the  freeway 
on-ramp  locations,  the  impacts  would  be  considered  significant  and  unmitigable.  No  other 
significant  impacts  were  identified,  and  therefore  additional  mitigation  measures  were  not 
proposed.  The  improvement  measure  identified  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  110  and  111  at  the 
intersection  of  Bayshore/Silver  for  2015  Cumulative  conditions  would  also  improve 
operations  of  the  northbound  left-turn  movement  from  LOS  F  to  LOS  E,  while  the  overall 
intersection  operating  conditions  would  continue  to  operate  at  LOS  D.  The  project  was 
determined  not  to  contribute  significantly  to  2015  Cumulative  conditions  at  this  location. 

As  indicated  in  the  DEIR  on  page  60,  the  parking  demand  was  calculated  for  the  fifth  busiest 
day.  Parking  demand  for  the  project  was  estimated  from  a  parking  demand  study  conducted 
by  an  independent  consultant  at  other  Home  Depot  stores  nationwide.45  For  the  study,  the 
hourly  parking  demand  (both  employees  and  customers)  was  counted  for  26  stores  on 
weekdays  and  weekends.  In  addition,  the  annual  sales  information  for  each  store  was 
obtained,  and  the  sales  information  for  the  parking  survey  day  was  compared  to  the  annual 
total.  Based  on  the  ratio,  the  parking  demand  was  adjusted  to  account  for  the  fifth  busiest 
day  at  each  store.  Parking  demand  equations  were  then  developed  for  both  weekday  and 
weekend,  based  on  the  size  of  each  facility.  Thus  the  parking  demand  of  502  spaces  during 
the  weekday  and  539  spaces  during  a  weekend  day,  compared  to  the  proposed  supply  of  539 
parking  spaces,  indicates  that  the  parking  demand  could  be  accommodated  within  the 
proposed  supply  (note  that  the  proposed  parking  supply  of  550  spaces  in  the  DEIR  has  been 
subsequently  reduced  to  539  spaces).  Any  shortfall  in  parking  spaces,  due  to  a  typical  lower 
effective  capacity  of  the  garage,  could  be  accommodated  in  the  project  vicinity,  mainly  along 
the  east  side  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  or  on  Loomis  Street.  It  is  anticipated  that  the  upper 
levels  of  the  garage  would  be  effectively  utilized,  since  employees  would  be  encouraged  to 
use  the  top  level  for  parking,  and  because  there  would  be  a  connection  from  the  garage  to  the 
mezzanine  level  of  the  store,  which  would  make  parking  and  shopping  easier  to  use  than 
parking  on-street  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  or  Loomis  Street.  Also  see  Responses  to 
Comments  #9 1  and  #93  regarding  parking  impacts. 


Barton- Aschman  Associates,  "Parking  Demand  Study  -  The  Home  Depot,"  January  1992,  op  cit. 
2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.242 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

The  DEIR  included  a  comprehensive  assessment  of  future  2015  Cumulative  conditions  for 
the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  on  pages  75  through  81.  This 
assessment  included  the  operations  analysis  of  the  five  major  intersections  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard  (at  Silver,  Industrial,  Cortland,  Oakdale,  and  Jerrold/U.S.  101  northbound  off- 
ramp),  and  at  five  freeway  on-ramps.  As  noted  above,  mitigation  and  improvement  measures 
were  developed  for  2015  Cumulative  conditions. 

Comment  #113 

The  following  comments  pertain  to  general  concerns  about  the  potential  traffic  conditions  related  to 
the  proposed  project. 

"I  live  on  the  corner  of  Putnam  and  Jarboe  Avenues.  The  transportation  study  has  said  that  cars  will 
come  this  way  to  get  to  Home  Depot.  These  streets  are  already  crowded  on  Saturdays  and  Sundays 
with  traffic  for  the  farmer's  market  and  the  flea  market.  Putnam  is  too  narrow  for  two  cars  to  pass  in 
many  places.  Traffic  will  be  horrendous  if  Home  Depot  is  allowed  to  use  Cortland  Avenue  as  its 
driveway.  Please  note:  I  am  a  general  contractor  and  I  do  not  want  Home  Depot  in  my 
neighborhood  to  increase  the  traffic  and  pollution."  (Scott  Barlow,  Resident) 

"The  third  area  is  the  DEIR  was  looking  at  side  streets  in  the  neighborhood.  I'm  realizing  that  today  I 
will  probably  no  longer  go  down  Putnam  Street,  which  is  a  feeder  on  to  Alemany,  because  every  time 
I  go  down  that  street  I  take  my  life  in  my  hands  and  I'm  thinking,  'If  there  is  more  traffic,  I  can  only 
imagine  considerable  traffic  accidents  if  not  fatalities  as  a  result  of  such  an  increase  in  traffic'  So  I 
urge  great  skepticism  with  respect  to  the  DEIR  and  its  effect  on  traffic,  and  consequently  its  spillover 
impact  on  air  pollution,  and  I  urge  you  to  reject  it  and  look  for  a  stronger  and  more  thorough 
evaluation."  (Brent  Daniel,  Resident) 

"My  husband  and  I  bought  a  home  in  Bernal  Heights  last  year.  We  were  attracted  to  the 
neighborhood  after  having  rented  there  for  a  year  and  did  not  want  to  leave.  I  believe  that  the 
implementation  of  a  Home  Depot  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  will  have  severe  negative  repercussions  on 
the  neighborhood.  [I  am  concerned  about]  increased  traffic  on  Cortland  Street  (increasing  danger, 
decreasing  charm)  on  Bayshore  (highway  access  will  be  harder),  on  Potrero  (as  an  alternative  N-S 
axis)."  (Melissa  M.  Diagana,  Resident) 

"The  stated  environmental  impacts  are  unacceptable.  I  point  to  the  effects  on  local  streets  and 
intersections,  just  to  name  a  few."  (Shannon  Dodge,  Resident) 

"I  have  two  small  children  and  walk,  drive,  and  bike  in  Bernal  Heights  every  day.  I  am  concerned 
about  the  traffic  congestion  and  the  heavy  volume  of  traffic  Home  Depot  would  bring  to  a  quiet 
residential  neighborhood.  These  cars  would  use  our  neighborhood  as  a  freeway  across  town  and  the 
streets  can  not  accommodate  this  amount  of  traffic."  (Jean  Field,  Resident) 

"The  Environmental  Impact  Report  is  very  alarming.  The  increase  of  traffic  and  air  pollution  will 
very  negatively  affect  daily  life  here  on  the  south  face  of  Bernal  Heights."  (Mary  Fitzgerald, 
Resident) 


200 1  0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.243 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 


"It  will  lead  to  major  traffic  congestion  along  Bayshore  Boulevard,  the  freeway  entrances  nearby  and 
especially  in  Bernal  Heights  along  Cortland  Street.  Muni  riders  will  experience  increased  delays. 
The  parking  garage  won't  be  able  to  handle  all  the  cars  coming  to  that  store.  Please  do  not  allow  this 
Home  Depot  here."  (Ellen  M.  Frank  and  Joseph  Majer,  Residents) 

"I  am  a  resident  of  Bernal  Heights  and  would  like  to  comment  on  the  Environmental  Impact  Report 
for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  As  I  live  on  the  eastern  part  of 
Bernal  Heights,  I  am  a  frequent  user  of  Cortland  Avenue  and  Bayshore  Boulevard  as  pedestrian, 
driver,  and  Muni  rider. 

"Bernal  Heights  is  a  neighborhood  of  particularly  narrow  streets.  The  added  traffic  to  those  streets 
will  be  a  hazard  to  pedestrians  and  drivers  alike.  There  is  a  Senior  Center  on  Cortland  Avenue  and 
an  active  program  for  frail  elders  in  the  neighborhood.  There  have  already  been  injury  accidents  to 
frail  seniors  in  the  Cortland  area.  This  can  only  get  worse  as  drivers  impatient  with  long  waits  fail  to 
wait  at  pedestrian  crosswalks."  (Nic  Griffin,  Resident) 

"I  live  between  Mission  Street  and  Holly  Park  Circle,  and  I  am  sure  that  overflow  traffic  will  crowd 
my  street  when  Cortland  backs  up  all  the  way  to  Home  Depot  and  possible  additional  'big  box' 
stores."  (Phoebe  Grigg  and  Jim  Miglino,  Residents) 

"It  will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  surrounding  intersections  and  neighborhoods.  The 
report  says  many  intersections  will  be  affected  negatively  even  as  far  away  as  Mission  and  30th. 
With  mitigations  including  traffic  lights,  this  intersection  will  still  be  a  huge  mess. 

"If  you  are  familiar  with  Bernal  Heights,  you  know  that  many  streets  are  narrow  and  cannot  handle 
the  additional  traffic  such  a  popular  big  box  store  would  create."  (Susan  Hershey  and  Judge 
Auffinger,  Residents) 

"The  current  traffic  congestion  is  already  high  and  dangerous.  Motorists  ignoring  stop  signs  and 
pedestrians  (particularly  the  elderly  and  children)  is  a  huge  problem.  Increased  traffic  on  Cortland 
and  other  west/east  streets  will  be  overwhelming."  (Alyson  Jacks,  Resident) 

"Primarily  I  am  concerned  with  dramatically  increased  traffic  along  Cortland  Avenue  and  Bayshore 
Boulevard.  The  streets  of  Bernal  Heights  are  narrow  to  begin  with.  Parking  will  be  in  shorter 
supply,  Muni  will  be  delayed,  air  pollution  will  be  increased.  Our  neighborhood  will  be  negatively 
impacted  if  Home  Depot  moves  in. 

"There's  a  Home  Depot  five  miles  south  of  this  location  in  Colma.  The  parking  lot  and  traffic  there 
are  both  congested."  (Ken  Kirsch,  Resident) 

"I  am  concerned  because  of  the  traffic.  I  don't  want  to  have  to  get  ready  one  hour  in  advance  to  go  to 
one  of  my  activities  because  of  the  traffic.  Also,  with  all  of  the  pollution,  I'll  feel  less  comfortable 
living  here.  The  new  cars  that  will  come  will  give  off  tons  of  pollution  in  the  bumper-to-bumper 
traffic  which  will  also  waste  our  limited  amount  of  oil."  (Joshua  Levy,  Resident) 

"This  is  a  neighborhood  and  already  too  much  traffic  over  the  hill.  Dangerous  for  families  and  kids. 
Hazards  with  traffic  just  to  pull  out  of  driveway.  Also  detrimental  to  small  businesses.  I  am 
horrified  by  the  thought  of  this  congestion  in  my  neighborhood."  (Jo  Ann  Madigan,  Resident) 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.244 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

"I  do  not  like  lots  of  traffic  and  big  stores  around  because  me  and  my  brother  like  to  ride  bikes." 
(Max  and  Ben  Malakoff,  Residents) 

"Because  I  sit  up  there  and  watch  the  traffic  go  by;  watch  trucks  go  by;  and  we  are  already  having  a 
traffic  problem.  It  is  already  pushing  over,  particularly  during  morning  and  evening  commutes  onto 
the  side  streets.  Even  I  use  the  side  streets.  You  know,  when  I  take  the  24  bus  I  get  off  across  from 
my  house,  and  I  have  trouble  getting  across  the  street  now.  Because  there's  no  stop;  at  this  point 
there's  no  stop  signs  from  all  the  way  from  Bayshore  up  to  Folsom,  so  cars  go  pretty  fast  and  reach  a 
curve.  So  when  I  go  across  there,  I  move  fast  and  looking  both  ways.  It  is  not  going  to  get  any  better 
if  you  start  adding  more  cars.  But  the  report  says  that  there's  going  to  be  big  traffic  problems." 
(Ingrid  Mardeson,  Resident) 

"Bayshore  Boulevard  already  is  congested  when  U.S.  101  and  1-280  become  backed  up.  This 
happens  every  morning  and  evening,  and  for  large  portions  of  the  weekend  days,  and  other 
unpredictable  times.  Cars  already  cut  through  Bernal  Heights  to  avoid  the  traffic  backups.  We  have 
narrow  streets,  many  with  two-way  stops.  The  integrity  of  our  neighborhood  will  be  lost  because 
industrial  zoning  begins  at  our  doorstep.  Drivers  looking  to  'save  time'  do  not  look  out  for  children, 
seniors,  or  other  residents.  Our  main  shopping  street  is  Cortland  Avenue.  This  street  will  become  a 
danger  to  cross. 

"I  drive  to/from  the  CalTrain  station  (22nd  Street)  using  Cortland  and  Bayshore.  It  can  already 
become  backed  up  easily  because  of  traffic,  one  or  two  slow  cars,  Muni  losing  its  power,  etc.  The 
idea  of  a  500-car  garage  at  that  intersection  is  simply  inappropriate."   (Eugenie  Marek,  Resident) 

"I  am  most  concerned  about  the  traffic  [it]  will  bring  to  the  residential  areas  of  Bernal  Heights.  The 
old  Goodman's  Lumber  and  the  businesses  that  are  currently  operating  along  Bayshore  is  one  thing, 
but  the  increase  in  traffic  Home  Depot  would  bring  is  quite  another.  I've  seen  how  traffic  is  backed 
up  on  State  Highway  280  as  a  result  of  the  Home  Depot  in  Colma,  and  the  project  proposed  for  our 
area  would  be  even  more  impacted.  I  firmly  believe  the  quality  of  life  in  the  Bernal  Heights 
neighborhood  would  be  diminished  by  the  added  traffic  in  the  area  if  Home  Depot  is  allowed  to 
move  in."  (Dale  Martin,  Resident) 

"The  traffic  report  indicates  that,  in  the  future,  most  intersections  will  be  rated  as  an  F.  This  is 
unacceptable. 

"I  am  concerned  that  Bayshore  will  become  like  Emeryville.  Emeryville  is  a  planning  disaster 
located  near  merging  freeways,  and  traffic  is  always  an  issue.  The  difference  between  Emeryville 
and  Bayshore  is  that  there  is  a  nearby  neighborhood  that  will  be  impacted  too."  (Amy  C.  Miller  and 
Virginia  Bowen,  Residents) 

"The  traffic  alone  on  Gates  Street  -  I  live  half  a  block  off  Cortland;  it  is  a  fun  street,  where  I've  got  to 
go  across  to  get  to  my  neighborhood  grocery  store  -  which  I  use  all  the  time.  There  is  only  one 
crosswalk;  there  is  no  room  for  a  stop  sign.  And  you  cannot  cross  that  street  there  right  now.  I'm  not 
talking  about  with  Home  Depot  in  there. 

"I  cross  down  on  the  bottom  of  Bayshore  every  morning  going  to  work,  and  it  is  already  backed  up." 
(Bill  Nieto,  Resident,  oral  testimony) 

"And  there's  the  traffic  at  the  intersection  of  101  and  280,  also  on  Cortland."  (Bill  Nieto,  Resident, 
written  comments) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.245 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

"There  will  be  too  much  traffic."  (Chava  Nieto,  Resident) 

"It  would  create  too  much  traffic."  (Patrick  J.  O'Brien,  Resident) 

"The  possible  delay  to  buses  is  problematic."  (Jo  Ann  Ogden,  Resident) 

"At  the  very  least,  this  project  needs  to  be  scaled  down.  It's  not  as  if  the  site  will  be  empty  for  long  in 
any  case.  I'm  not  objecting  to  a  large  store  there,  just  to  this  particular  plan.  It's  about  the  worst 
thing  possible  for  my  neighborhood.  Lots  of  traffic,  the  worst  kind  of  traffic  (diesel  and  pickups),  the 
worst  time  for  peak  traffic,  and  very  little  likelihood  for  either  a  good  store  or  good  jobs  coming  from 
it."  (Chris  Pagels,  Resident) 

"Traffic,  traffic,  traffic.  Exits  off  101  onto  Bayshore  are  bad  now.  They'll  be  worse.  Traffic 
pollution."  (Barbara  Paley,  Resident) 

"I  don't  want  it  because  it  will  cause  too  much  traffic  problems,  which  I  already  have  problems  with." 
(Gilda  Serrano,  Resident) 

"Traffic  nightmares  would  ruin  the  Bernal  Heights  community,  and  the  congestion  would  be  a  fiasco. 
It  can't  happen."  (Dan  Sobel,  Resident) 

"I  am  concerned  about  the  ...  traffic  on  Cortland,  and  Mission  and  Bayshore."  (Paula  Young, 
Resident) 

"The  traffic  impact  of  our  already  congested  neighborhood  is  too  much.  My  concern  of  the 
environmental  issue,  more  cars,  more  smog,  less  enjoyment  of  walking  in  our  neighborhood."  (David 
Ziegler,  Resident) 

Response  #113 

The  transportation  analysis  of  the  proposed  project  included  an  assessment  of  traffic  impacts 
on  nearby  intersections,  regional  freeway  facilities,  and  local  streets  most  likely  to  be 
impacted  by  vehicular  travel  to  and  from  the  project  site.  The  traffic  impact  analysis 
included  analysis  of  14  intersections  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project,  including  four  intersections 
along  Cortland  Avenue  (Bayshore/Cortland,  Mission/Cortland,  Cortland/ Andover,  and 
Cortland/Folsom).  However,  the  DEIR  does  not  identify  impacts  at  the  intersection  of 
Mission/3 0th,  as  suggested  by  a  commenter,  since  this  intersection  was  not  part  of  the  traffic 
analysis. 

The  results  of  the  traffic  analysis  for  Existing  plus  Project  and  2015  Cumulative  conditions 
were  used  in  assessing  the  impacts  of  the  proposed  project  on  air  quality.  The  discussion  of 
impacts  on  air  quality  is  presented  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  81  through  92.    For  further 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.246 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

discussion  of  air  quality,  also  refer  to  the  Air  Quality  section  of  this  chapter.  As  summarized 
in  the  DEIR  on  page  8,  air  quality  impacts  of  the  project  would  be  less  than  significant  for 
stationary  source  emissions,  CO  concentrations  and  toxic  air  contaminants.  As  concluded  on 
page  92  of  the  DEIR,  the  project  would  exceed  the  BAAQMD  threshold  of  significance  for 
regional  air  quality. 

See  also  Responses  to  Comments  #63  and  #67  through  #70  regarding  pedestrian  safety, 
parking,  and  the  roadway  configuration  of  Cortland  Avenue  and  side  streets  in  Bernal 
Heights. 

The  City  of  Emeryville  is  unique  for  its  recently  constructed  IKEA  store.  Please  refer  to 
Response  to  Comment  #83  for  discussion  of  the  store  and  surrounding  traffic  patterns. 

The  impact  of  the  project  on  noise  levels  was  reviewed  in  the  Initial  Study  for  the  project. 
Based  on  the  occupancy  of  the  proposed  project,  the  Planning  Department  determined  that 
the  proposed  project  would  not  have  a  significant  impact  due  to  noise  (see  DEIR  Appendix 
A:  Initial  Study,  pages  A- 14  and  A- 15).  The  impact  of  the  proposed  project  on  noise  levels  is 
further  discussed  in  Response  to  Comment  #127. 

Comment  #114 

"I  am  speaking  for  Doris  Vincent.  This  is  her  speech.  I  have  lived  43  years  in  the  Bayview.  I 
support  and  approve  the  DEIR  as  written,  and  would  -  and  please  ask  you  to  approve  and  certify  the 
DEIR.  The  independent  study  states  that  The  potential  queues  that  would  develop  at  the  main  access 
routes  to  the  proposed  project,  and  the  increase  in  traffic  volumes  at  the  nearby  intersections,  would 
not  adversely  affect  Muni  and  SamTrans  service  levels,  and  therefore  would  not  result  in  significant 
impact  to  transit  operations.'  With  the  emphasis  on  public  transit  coming  from  the  Planning 
Department,  but  the  decrease  in  Muni  services  throughout  the  city,  we  concur  that  a  level  of  service 
would  not  be  adversely  affected.  Please  approve  and  certify  the  DEIR."  (Judy  Berkowitz,  Resident) 

"I  have  been  there  for  a  long  time,  and  from  Goodman's  in  its  heyday,  and  when  Whole  Earth  Access 
and  Allstate  Plywood  were  very  successful,  there  was  quite  a  bit  of  traffic.  I'm  sure  the  traffic  will  be 
coming  back  to  those  patterns,  but  I  think  it  will  be  better  because  I  think  there  is  better  planning  now 
than  they  had  in  the  past.  Also,  we  welcome  the  additional  traffic;  the  consumers  that  will  be  coming 
to  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  shop  for  building  materials.  Because  the  bulk  of  the  people  -  bulk  of  the 
businesses  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  do  provide  building  materials  to  the  public."  (Rob  Caldwell, 
Business  Owner) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.247 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

"The  traffic  is  estimated  to  increase  on  a  quarterly  basis  by  13  percent.  That  amounts  to  one  car  for 
every  eight  cars  that  come  down  there  now;  they  are  going  to  have  one  more  car:  not  very  much  of 
an  impact.  Also,  now  that  Goodman's  is  gone,  and  the  Whole  Earth  is  gone,  the  traffic  has 
diminished  greatly  in  the  last  three  years,  but  we  really  need  the  Home  Depot;  you  guys  need  the 
money;  need  the  tax  dollars.  I  don't  want  to  give  it  to  Colma;  I  want  to  give  it  to  San  Francisco." 
(John  DeGarmo) 

"It  is  my  understanding  that  the  Home  Depot  has  redesigned  their  entrances  and  exits  to  be  on 
Loomis  Street  -  which  is  actually  behind  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  have  enough  experience  with  traffic 
engineering  that  I  know  that  if  they  put  cut-outs  -  even  double  cut-outs  -  that  people  would  not  get 
backed  up  on  Bayshore  or  Industrial.  You  have  Alemany  as  a  main  source  of  entry  into  that  area. 
You  have  Bayshore  Boulevard  itself,  and  you  have  Highway  101  with  the  Bayshore  exit.  As  several 
other  speakers  have  said,  I  don't  think  people  would  drive  down  Cortland  more  than  once.  I  have 
lived  in  that  same  house  for  25  years,  and  I  know  exactly  how  traffic  works  in  that  area.  I  used  to 
shop  at  Goodman's  as  well.  I  have  been  in  that  house  for  25  years.  Goodman's  was  a  great  shop. 
You  know,  it  was  very  convenient;  now  Colma  gets  all  of  my  money,  and  Colma  gets  my  sales  tax 
dollars.  I  believe  that  the  traffic  issues  are  workable  -  speaking  directly  to  the  EIR  matters  here." 
(Robert  Heacock,  Resident) 

"We're  a  neighborhood  improvement  group  for  the  community  that  is  immediately  south  and 
adjacent  to  the  proposed  Home  Depot  site.  As  such,  we  took  a  careful  look  at  this  project,  because 
we  are  in  close  proximity,  and  we  have,  for  your  reference,  three  freeway  off  ramps  which  will  lead 
to  this  project  site,  that  empty  directly  into  our  community,  and  through  our  commercial  corridor  of 
San  Bruno  Avenue.  So  as  such,  we  were  concerned  initially  of  very  much  the  same  concern  that  had 
been  aired  by  the  Bernal  Heights  community,  regarding  traffic  and  impact  on  our  commercial 
enterprises'  viability.  However,  we  have  come  to  the  opposite  conclusion.  We  feel  that  the 
accommodations  designed  into  the  proposal  for  traffic  and  parking  are  more  than  adequate.  We  do 
not  fear  that  this  is  going  to  have  an  adverse  impact  upon  our  commercial  strip.  And  in  fact,  we're 
looking  forward  to  some  spill-off,  as  far  as  bringing  customer  flow  to  the  area  there.  So  we  wanted 
to  provide  you  with  some  detailed  comments  here;  I'll  submit  this  to  your  clerk  (indicating).  But 
we're  in  agreement  with  our  neighbors  in  Bayview  that  this  project  should  go  forward."  (Dwayne 
Jusino,  Resident) 

"Home  Depot.  It  should  be  there.  I  have  been  there  a  long  time,  over  30  years.  And  I  know  when 
Goodman  Lumber  was  there,  there  was  no  problem  with  traffic,  because  I  think  when  somebody 
leaves  something,  they  don't  owe  him  that  same  trouble.  So  the  traffic  would  be  like  -  not  be  a  big 
impact  there  -  the  same  as  you  heard  from  other  speakers.  So  I  think  it  would  be  for  the  good  of  the 
neighborhood  to  have  this  business  over  there."  (Cesar  Mendoza,  Resident) 

"I'm  a  long-time  resident  of  Bernal  Heights,  and  I  favor  Home  Depot  going  on  to  Bayshore.  I'll  try  to 
stick  to  the  EIR.  I  did  read  it  -  and  it  is  not  the  easiest  thing  to  do  -  and  I  did  see  that  the  traffic 
impact  was  going  to  increase  13  percent.  And  I  was  thinking  'Well,  what  about  common  sense?'  If 
you've  got  101,  280,  and  Cesar  Chavez  to  get  to  the  store,  why  would  you  use  Cortland?  If  you  did 
use  Cortland,  like  other  people  have  said,  you  would  use  it  once.  You've  got  eight  or  ten  stop  signs; 
it  is  a  one-lane  road.  You  will  do  it  once,  and  you  won't  do  it  again. 

"And  also,  when  Goodman's  and  Whole  Earth  Access  were  there,  they  had  super  sidewalk  sales  all 
the  time.  And  I  mean  there  were  cars;  there  were  a  lot  of  people  there,  and  nobody  ever  complained 
in  the  Bernal  Heights  community  about  the  traffic.  And  there  was  a  lot  of  traffic,  but  nobody  said 
anything.  And  also  you  had  Whole  Earth  Access.  I  mean  there  was  a  lot  of  business  going  on.  And 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.248 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

TRANSPORTATION 

as  far  as  -  like  the  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center,  which  is  spearheading  this  whole  anti- 
Home  Depot  thing  -  in  the  beginning  they  proposed  to  Home  Depot,  'Well,  you  build  your  store;  let 
us  put  affordable  housing  on  top.'  And  there  were  figures  like  a  thousand  affordable  units.  Never  a 
word  about  the  problem  of  Cortland  Avenue  being  inundated  with  traffic  -  only  until  it  was  declared 
an  industrial  zone.  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  turned  right  around  and  said  'No,  we  don't 
want  it.'  If  there  was  affordable  housing  going  upstairs,  you  would  see  a  very  quiet  Bernal  Heights 
Neighborhood  Center."  (Joe  Pecoro,  Resident) 

"For  my  14  years  here  I  have  been  working  here  and  been  an  avid  do-it-yourselfer,  often  to  the 
benefit  of  landlords,  and  often  for  the  benefit  of  myself  and  my  neighbors.  I  know  one  of  the  biggest 
issues  raised  in  the  EIR  is  traffic,  and  I  think  the  location  that  has  been  selected  is  probably  the  best 
location  in  the  city  for  dealing  with  traffic.  We  have  101  and  280,  both  literally  within  a  stone's 
throw  of  the  site.  We  have  Industrial,  Alemany,  San  Bruno,  Bayshore  and  Potrero  -  all  accessible  for 
surface  streets  of  various  areas  of  the  city.  I  know  that  for  me,  I  would  often  walk  to  the  Home 
Depot,  rather  than  driving  to  Colma  for  any  smaller  lumber  that  I  would  have  previously  walked  to 
Goodman's  for.  I  currently  walk  to  S  and  C  Ford  from  my  home  when  I  need  to  use  their  services." 
(Rick  Rutledge,  Resident) 

"The  nature  of  my  business  (dictates  that)  I  go  out  to  people's  homes  all  over  San  Francisco.  I  can't 
remember  the  last  time  I  drove  on  Cortland  Avenue,  except  to  get  a  pizza,  or  there  is  a  nice 
Hungarian  restaurant  up  there.  I  don't  drive  through  there.  This  is  not  a  convenient  place  to  get  from 
one  place  to  another  through  Cortland  Avenue,  and  I  agree  that  no  one  will  make  that  mistake  more 
than  once.  With  the  Home  Depot  in  Colma,  if  there  was  a  traffic  hell  going  on  in  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  I  think  that  people  might  just  choose  to  go  to  Colma,  so  I  don't  think  it  is  a  real  concern 
that  there's  going  to  be,  you  know,  people  lining  up  for  a  half  an  hour  to  get  through  Cortland 
Avenue.  It  just  wouldn't  happen.  The  reality  is  when  you  talk  about  traffic  and  gases,  there  may  be  a 
little  more  traffic  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  because,  you  know,  we  don't  have  any  business  occupying 
those  sites.  And  when  I  moved  in  there  20  years  ago  -  18  by  the  way,  Whole  Earth  Access,  not  a 
retail  clothing  store  at  that  time  -  it  was  what:  Allstate  Plywood  Company?  Next  to  it  you  have  a 
Smart  and  Final  -  was  also  Pacific  Supply  -  building  supply.  You  are  talking  about  the  same  use  in  a 
place  that's  been  there  for  years  and  years.  You  have  a  whole  street  of  home  improvement  stores  and 
contractors.  Many  of  the  clients  who  would  go  to  Home  Depot  -  and  I  shop  at  Home  Depot  almost 
every  day  -  they  are  already  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  You  are  not  talking  about  extra  trips.  And 
where  do  you  think  the  people  that  maintain  the  property  in  San  Francisco  have  to  drive  to?  They  are 
driving  all  the  way  through  the  city.  If  you  shorten  trips,  you  have  less  pollution.  And  I  don't  think  a 
whole  lot  of  people  take  buses  to  the  Home  Depot  in  Colma  for  their  job.  But  I'm  guessing  that  a  lot 
of  people  who  worked  at  Home  Depot,  if  it  were  on  Bayshore  Boulevard,  would  ride  a  bus  there  - 
not  the  customers,  because  you  can't  carry  2  x  4's  on  the  bus  -  but  if  you  are  talking  about  employees 
that  would  be  accessible  to  them  by  bus;  you  are  talking  about  shorter  trips."  (Steve  St.  Denny, 
Business  Owner) 

Response  #1 14 

These  comments  express  support  for  the  project  and  do  not  address  the  adequacy  and 
accuracy  of  the  DEIR.  The  comments  are  noted. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.249 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 


AIR  QUALITY 

Comment  #115 

"Page  82  [of  the  DEIR]:  The  air  quality  analysis  needs  to  evaluate  PM2.5  as  well  as  PMi0."  (Eve 
Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron 
Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

"Air  quality  issues  as  identified  by  Dr.  Gina  Solomon  should  be  discussed  further."  (Shelley 
Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President) 

"We  would  need  to  have  on  page  85  current  permissible  exposure  levels."  (Kevin  Hughes,  Planning 
Commissioner) 

"The  report  does  not  address  the  obviously  foreseeable  air  quality  impacts.  The  report  does  not 
address  the  significance  of  traffic-related  pollution  to  increasing  ambient  concentrations  of 
particulate  matter.  Particulate  matter  is  an  important  health  concern. 

"Particulate  matter  refers  to  particles  in  the  air.  Particulate  matter  can  be  measured  in  various  sizes. 
For  many  years,  PM  has  been  measured  as  particles  that  are  10  microns  in  size  or  smaller,  known  as 
PMi0.  There  are  both  short-term  (1-day)  and  long-term  (1  year)  air  quality  standards  for  PM10.  The 
highest  average  value  for  PMi0  over  the  last  6  years  in  the  Bay  Area  was  at  the  monitoring  station  at 
Arkansas  Street. 

"It  is  not  correct  to  say  that  the  PM  standards  allow  for  any  margin  of  safety  for  the  exposed 
population.  Effects  of  exposure  to  PM  have  been  demonstrated  at  concentrations  below  the  current 
standards,  and  many  scientists  believe  there  is  no  safe  level  of  exposure. 

"The  State  of  California  has  recently  adopted  new,  more  stringent  standards  for  PM)0,  as  part  of  its 
overall  review  of  environmental  standards  to  ensure  that  they  are  protective  for  children.  This  is  a 
key  policy  concern  because  most  environmental  standards  have  been  set  without  any  consideration  of 
the  special  vulnerabilities  of  children,  either  due  to  the  greater  intake  of  some  kinds  of  pollutants  or 
due  to  the  greater  vulnerability  to  some  kinds  of  pollutants.  Cal-EPA  identified  particulate  matter  as 
one  of  several  standards  deserving  of  early  attention  because  many  of  the  health  effects  are  seen 
particularly  in  children  (as  well  as  in  elderly  people  and  those  with  existing  respiratory  disease). 

"As  a  result  of  this  review,  ARB  adopted  a  1-year  standard  for  PM10,  reducing  the  existing  standard 
of  30  to  20  |ig/m3,  measured  as  an  annual  mean.1  Both  San  Francisco's  median  and  mean  values 
exceed  this  standard,  which  means  that  there  are  significant  health  concerns  for  particulate  matter 
today. 

"Both  the  State  and  federal  governments  are  also  implementing  standards  that  refer  to  even  smaller 
particles.  These  standards  apply  to  particles  that  are  2.5  microns  in  diameter  or  smaller,  which  are 
now  as  PM2.5.  Such  smaller  particles  penetrate  even  further  into  the  lung,  and  some  scientists  believe 
that  the  most  harmful  fraction  of  particulate  matter  will  ultimately  prove  to  be  this  smaller  fraction. 
The  DEIR  does  not  address  this  issue  at  all."  (Amy  D.  Kyle,  Ph.D.,  M.P.H.,  Resident 

"There  was  a  lady  earlier  talking  about  the  air  pollution.  I  think  she  knows  pretty  much  what  she's 
talking  about,  and  I  think  the  air  pollution  issue  should  be  addressed  and  updated.  I  think  there's 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.250 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

issues  with  what  she  talked  about  -  the  PM]0s;  some  of  the  State  regulatory  agencies  going  to  2.5, 
and  I  think  that  means  the  size  of  the  dust  particles  that  you  would  get  from  diesel."  (Bill  Lee, 
Planning  Commissioner) 

"I  have  lived  in  San  Francisco  for  about  30  years,  and  I  overlook  —  I'm  about  six,  seven  blocks  up 
from  Bayshore.  And  so  I  know  that  particulate  matter  accumulates  on  the  front  of  my  house,  and  I 
have  looked  at  this  report  and  I  don't  believe  it."  (Ingrid  Mardeson,  Resident) 

"The  report  only  looks  at  PMio,  but  should  also  look  at  PM2.5  which  is  very  dangerous  size  particles." 
(Amy  C.  Miller  and  Virginia  Bowen,  Residents) 

"I  think  there's  a  type  of  air  particulates  that  go  into  air  that  were  not  studied  in  this  EIR.  The  PM2.5's 
are  more  dangerous  than  the  PMio's  -  this  is  something  that  was  not  studied,  and  something  I  heard 
from  an  expert  in  this.  So  would  like  to  see  more  study  in  that;  more  study  on  cancer  effects  of  the 
air  pollution  that's  going  to  be  added  to  our  neighborhood.  But  I  think  saying  that  the  air  pollution 
that's  being  added  to  our  neighborhood  is  not  significant:  I  also  disagree  with  that.  I  believe  it  would 
be  very  significant."  (Gretchen  Mokry,  Resident) 

"I  am  a  physician  with  training  in  internal  medicine,  occupational  and  environmental  medicine,  and 
public  health.  I  have  expertise  in  the  fields  of  air  quality  and  the  health  effects  of  air  pollutants, 
including  ozone,  particulate  matter,  diesel  exhaust,  and  NOx.  I  am  an  Assistant  Clinical  Professor  of 
Medicine  in  the  Division  of  Occupational  and  Environmental  Medicine  at  the  University  of 
California  at  San  Francisco,  and  an  Attending  Specialist  at  the  U.C.  Pediatric  Environmental  Health 
Specialty  Unit.  I  am  also  a  Senior  Scientist  at  the  Natural  Resources  Defense  Council. 

"I  have  reviewed  the  Draft  EIR  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  have 
serious  concerns  about  the  quality  of  the  EIR  and  about  is  conclusions.  I  am  writing  to  strongly  urge 
the  Planning  Commission  to  reject  this  proposed  project  in  its  current  form. 

"The  proposed  project  will  significantly  increase  regional  ozone  pollution  in  a  non-attainment  area. 
If  this  project  were  approved,  it  would  significantly  increase  ozone  levels  in  the  region.  According  to 
the  EIR,  the  increased  automobile  and  truck  traffic  associated  with  Home  Depot  would  spew 
hundreds  of  pounds  of  air  pollutants  into  the  air  throughout  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood.  The 
EIR  found  that  the  project  would  be  responsible  for  an  estimated  84.5  pounds  per  day  of  reactive 
organic  gases  (ROG).  This  means  that  the  project  would  have  a  'significant  unmitigable  impact'  on 
air  quality.  Reactive  organic  gases  are  precursors  of  ozone  smog.  Ozone  has  been  shown  to  trigger 
asthma  attacks  in  susceptible  individuals,  and  recent  studies  in  Los  Angeles  indicate  that  ozone  can 
cause  asthma  in  children  who  play  outdoor  sports  (see  discussion  of  asthma  below).  In  addition,  the 
Bay  Area  is  an  ozone  non- attainment  area  [Federal  Register:  July  10,  1998  (Volume  63,  Number 
132)],  so  projects  such  as  this,  which  create  significant  unmitigable  impacts  on  air  quality  by 
increasing  emissions  of  ozone  precursors  must  be  viewed  with  particular  suspicion. 

"The  EIR  fails  to  adequately  address  the  project's  emissions  of  particulate  air  pollution.  Although 
Home  Depot's  contribution  of  sooty  particles  to  the  local  air  falls  below  the  'level  of  significance'  in 
the  EIR,  the  document  fails  to  take  into  account  the  new  standards  related  to  this  pollutant.  On  June 
20,  2002,  the  California  Air  Resources  Board  lowered  the  allowable  level  of  respirable  particulate 
matter  (PMi0)  in  the  air  from  30  to  20  micrograms  per  cubic  meter  (annual  average).2  San  Francisco 
already  exceeds  this  level.  The  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  has  not  yet  revised  their 
guidelines  (written  in  December  of  1999)  to  account  for  the  new  State  standard.  Following  the 
outdated  BAAQMD  guidelines  for  these  particles  (as  was  done  in  this  EIR)  will  ensure  that  San 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.251 


July  28. 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

Francisco  continues  to  fail  to  meet  the  State  standard.  Also  in  June  of  2002,  the  Air  Resources  Board 
set  a  new  standard  for  fine  particulate  matter  (PM2.5)  at  12  micrograms  per  cubic  meter.3  This 
standard  reflects  the  science  showing  that  the  smallest  particles  are  the  most  hazardous  to  human 
health.  The  EIR  fails  to  address  PM2.5  from  the  proposed  project  at  all.  Therefore,  the  impact  of  the 
proposed  Home  Depot  project  on  local  particulate  air  pollution  is  significant  because  it  'contributes 
substantially  to  an  existing  or  projected  air  quality  violation.'  (CEQA  Guidelines,  Appendix  G). 

"Particulate  matter  is  known  to  increase  emergency  room  visits  for  cardiac  and  respiratory  disease, 
increase  rates  of  myocardial  infarction  (heart  attack),  and  contribute  to  premature  death.  In  addition, 
diesel  particles  have  been  linked  to  asthma.  More  than  98  percent  of  the  particles  emitted  from  diesel 
engines  and  cars  are  fine  particles,  less  than  1  micron  in  diameter,  which  can  bypass  respiratory 
defense  mechanisms  and  penetrate  deep  into  the  lungs.4  Numerous  studies  have  found  that  fine 
particles  impair  lung  function,  aggravate  respiratory  illnesses  such  as  bronchitis  and  emphysema,  and 
are  associated  with  premature  death.5  Also,  dozens  of  studies  link  airborne  fine-particle 
concentrations  to  increased  hospital  admissions  for  respiratory  diseases,  chronic  obstructive  lung 
disease,  pneumonia,  and  heart  disease,  including  an  increased  risk  of  acute  myocardial  infarction.6" 
(Gina  M.  Solomon,  M.D.,  M.P.H.,  written  comments) 

"In  addition,  when  I  hit  page  85  of  the  EIR,  I'm  surprised  at  Table  8;  it  is  quite  out  of  date.  It 
includes  the  old  standard  for  particulate  matter,  10  microns  in  diameter  and  temp  of  30.  That  is  no 
longer  the  case  and  has  not  been  the  case  for  a  year.  It  is  now  lowered  to  20.  There  is  a  standard  for 
PM2.5  in  the  State  of  California  promulgated  by  the  ERB  in  June  of  2002;  that  is  a  standard  of  12  - 
not  even  reflected  there  on  page  85."     (Gina  M.  Solomon,  M.D.,  M.P.H.,  oral  testimony) 

1  California  Air  Resources  Board.  Review  of  the  ambient  air  quality  standards  for  particulate  matter  and 
sulfates.  June  20,  2002  Board  meeting,  http://www.arb.ca.gov/research/aaqs/std- 
rs/bdsum620/bdsum620.htm. 
http://www.arb.ca.gov/board/ms/ms062002.pdf. 

3  Ibid. 

4  Cuddihy  R.G.,  Griffith  W.C.,  McClellan  R.O.:  Health  risks  from  light-duty  diesel  vehicles.  Environ  Sci 
Technol  18:14a-21a,  1984. 

5  Pope  C.A.:  Particulate  air  pollution  as  a  predictor  of  mortality  in  a  prospective  study  of  U.S.  adults.  Am.  J. 
Respir.  Crit.  Care  Med  151:669-674,  1995. 

6  Peters  A.,  Dockery  D.W.,  Muller  J.E.,  Mittleman  M.A.  Increased  particulate  air  pollution  and  the 
triggering  of  myocardial  infarction.  Circulation  103:2810-2815,  2001. 

"The  EIR  also  fails  to  adequately  address  the  emissions  of  particulate  matter  (PM),  not  taking  into 
account  the  new  standards  related  to  this  pollutant.  The  California  Air  Resources  Board  has  lowered 
the  acceptable  level  from  PM10  to  PM2.5.  The  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  has  not  yet 
revised  their  guidelines,  but,  obviously,  will  need  to  do  so.  San  Francisco  already  exceeds  this  level. 
And,  more  importantly,  particulate  matter  has  been  directly  linked  to  asthma,  contributing  to  the 
astonishing  increase  in  the  disease."  (Linda  Weiner,  Resident,  Director  of  Air  Quality  Advocacy  for 
the  American  Lung  Association) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.252 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 


Response  #115 

Standards  and  Thresholds  of  Significance 

The  DEIR  utilized  the  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  (BAAQMD)  California 
Environmental  Quality  Act  (CEQA)  Guidelines  as  a  primary  reference.  The  BAAQMD  is  the 
agency  primarily  responsible  for  assuring  that  national  and  State  ambient  air  quality 
standards  are  attained  and  maintained  in  the  San  Francisco  Bay  Area.  The  Guidelines 
explain  the  BAAQMD-recommended  procedures  during  the  environ-mental  review  process 
under  CEQA.  The  CEQA  Guidelines  establish  thresholds  of  significance  and  provide 
direction  on  how  to  evaluate  potential  air  quality  impacts,  assist  lead  agencies  in  determining 
whether  a  project  may  have  a  significant  air  quality  impact,  and  how  to  mitigate  these 
impacts.  Ambient  air  quality  standards  are  outdoor  air  concentrations  below  which  no 
significantly  adverse  health  effects  are  expected.  Emission  standards  are  the  maximum 
amount  of  pollution  that  is  permitted  to  be  discharged  from  a  polluting  source  measured  over 
time  -  for  example,  the  number  of  pounds  of  dust  that  may  be  emitted  per  hour  from  an 
industrial  process. 

The  BAAQMD's  thresholds  of  significance  are  based  on  the  State  Office  of  Planning  and 
Research  definitions  of  significant  environmental  effect.  Section  15382  of  the  CEQA 
Guidelines  defines  "significant  effect  on  the  environment"  as  a  "substantial,  or  potentially 
substantial,  adverse  change  in  any  of  the  physical  conditions  within  the  area  affected  by  the 
project  including...  air." 

The  DEIR  found  that  the  proposed  project  would  have  a  significant  impact  on  ozone  air 
quality  based  on  total  indirect  emissions  exceeding  the  BAAQMD's  80-pound-per-day 
threshold  for  the  ozone  precursors  Reactive  Organic  Gases  (ROG).  The  threshold  for  this 
pollutant  is  equivalent  to  the  BAAQMD  offset  requirement  thresholds  for  stationary  sources 
in  the  District  rules  and  regulations  and  are  not  based  on  any  level  of  air  quality  deterioration. 
Because  of  the  regional  and  cumulative  nature  of  ozone,  any  ozone  air  quality  effects  would 
not  occur  locally,  but  elsewhere  within  the  air  basin. 

Particulate  Matter  (PM10  and  PM2  5) 

The  DEIR  addressed  particulate  matter  emissions  from  both  project  construction  and 
operation.   Suspended  particulate  matter  (PM)  is  a  complex  mixture  of  tiny  particles  that 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.253 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

consists  of  dry  solid  fragments,  solid  cores  with  liquid  coatings,  and  small  droplets  of  liquid. 
These  particles  vary  greatly  in  shape,  size  and  chemical  composition,  and  can  be  made  up  of 
many  different  materials  such  as  metals,  soot,  soil,  and  dust.  "Inhalable"  PM  consists  of 
particles  less  than  10  microns  in  diameter,  and  is  defined  as  "suspended  particulate  matter"  or 
"PMio."  Fine  particles  are  less  than  2.5  microns  in  diameter  (PM2.5).  PM2.5,  by  definition,  is 
included  with  PM)0. 

The  project  was  found  to  have  a  potentially  significant  impact  due  to  particulate  emissions 
during  construction  that  could  be  mitigated  by  dust  control  measures.  Project  operation 
would  not  be  a  stationary  source  of  particulate  matter  emissions.  The  project  would 
indirectly  generate  particulate  emissions  through  vehicle-trips.  The  DEIR  quantified 
operational  emissions  of  PM10  from  vehicular  sources,  which  includes,  by  definition, 
emissions  of  PM2.5.  The  DEIR  analysis  was  conducted  according  to  the  BAAQMD  CEQA 
Guidelines,  expressed  in  pounds  per  day.  The  guidelines  require  quantification  of  total 
indirect  emissions  of  PM10,  and  comparison  of  this  threshold  to  the  total  indirect  emissions  of 
a  project.  The  BAAQMD  significance  threshold  is  a  mass  emission  threshold  expressed  in 
pounds  per  day.  The  total  emission  from  all  vehicles  is  the  sum  of  emissions  from  all  trips  to 
or  from  the  site,  regardless  of  location  of  the  vehicle.  In  fact,  very  little  of  the  emissions 
calculated  would  occur  in  proximity  to  the  actual  site,  but  would  be  dispersed  over  a  large 
area  around  the  site  along  streets  and  highways  used  by  project  patrons  and  employees. 

Diesel  particulates  associated  with  the  project  represent  the  greatest  risk  to  the  health  of  the 
surrounding  community,  nearby  sensitive  receptors,  and  the  Bay  Area  Air  Basin  as  a  whole, 
97  percent  of  which  is  classified  as  PM2.5.  The  DEIR  included  a  screening  health  risk 
assessment  for  diesel  particulate  for  worst-case  locations  where  exposure  would  be  greatest. 
Exposure  at  identified  sensitive  receptors  would  be  less  than  the  exposure  calculated  for 
worst-case  locations.  Using  the  BAAQMD  thresholds  of  significance  for  toxic  air 
contaminants,  this  analysis  showed  a  less-than-significant  impact,  both  for  cancer  risks  and 
for  non-cancer  health  effects  from  long-term  chronic  exposure  (diesel  particulate  is  not 
considered  to  have  short  term  (acute)  non-cancer  health  effects). 

Neither  particulate  matter  (PM)0  or  PM2.5)  shows  a  strong  correlation  to  local  traffic,  but  each 
one  tends  to  relate  to  more  regional  pollutants  like  ozone,  where  concentrations  are 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.254 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

dependent  on  wind,  weather,  and  atmospheric  reactions  rather  than  proximity  to  a  particular 
roadway.  Particulate  matter  may  have  localized  effects  in  addition  to  regional  effects; 
however,  there  are  no  quantitative  methods  or  models  that  have  been  developed  to  precisely 
estimate  local  concentrations  of  particulate  matter  from  roadways  as  has  been  done  for  local 
pollutants  such  as  carbon  monoxide  (CO).  Particulate  matter  impacts  are  addressed  on  a 
regional  basis,  as  is  the  case  for  ozone  precursors. 

Particulate  Matter  Air  Quality  Standards 

Air  pollutants  that  exceed  the  ambient  air  quality  standards  (outside  air  concentrations  below 
which  no  health  effects  occur)  such  as  particulate  matter  (PMio  and  PM2.5)  and  ozone  have 
been  shown  to  be  correlated  with  numerous  health  effects.  Certain  populations  are  at  greater 
risk  from  the  potential  effects  of  particulate  matter  such  as  the  elderly,  children,  and  people 
with  asthma  and  other  breathing  problems.  Such  relationships  between  particulate  mater  and 
health  effects,  however,  are  based  on  ambient  air  quality  measurements  rather  than  emissions 
(amounts  of  pollutants  measured  over  time  regardless  of  location),  so  the  standards  do  not 
establish  relationships  that  would  allow  quantified  analysis  of  health  effects  from  an  indirect 
source  of  pollution.  It  is  not  currently  possible  to  determine  particulate  matter  or  ozone 
concentrations  that  would  result  from  an  indirect  source  such  as  the  proposed  project. 
Therefore,  the  BAAQMD  has  established  mass-emissions  thresholds  of  significance  for 
particulate  matter  similar  to  that  for  ozone  precursors.  This  approach  was  utilized  in  the 
DEIR.  Regional  air  quality  impacts  were  found  to  be  significant.  According  to  the 
BAAQMD  CEQA  Guidelines,  any  project  that  has  an  individually  significant  impact  would 
also  have  a  significant  cumulative  impact. 

The  State  of  California  regularly  reviews  scientific  literature  regarding  the  health  effects  of 
exposure  to  PM  and  other  pollutants.  On  May  3,  2002,  the  California  Air  Resources  Board 
(CARB)  staff  recommended  lowering  the  level  of  the  annual  standard  for  PM]0  and 
establishing  a  new  annual  standard  for  PM2.5  (particulate  matter  2.5  micrometers  in  diameter 
and  smaller).  The  new  standards  became  effective  on  July  5,  2003.  The  current  state  and 
federal  ambient  air  quality  standards  are  shown  in  Table  C&R.18  on  the  following  page.  All 
of  the  other  standards  remain  the  same  as  those  in  the  DEIR.  The  designations  for  the  new 
federal  8-hour  ozone  standard  and  PM2.5  standards  are  pending. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.255 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 


Table  C&R.18 
Federal  and  State  Ambient  Air  Quality  Standards 

Pollutant 

Averaging 
Time 

Federal 
Primary 
Standard 

State 
Standard 

Ozone 

1-Hour 
8-Hour 

0.12  PPM 
0.08  PPM 

0.09  PPM 
N/A 

Carbon  Monoxide  (CO) 

1-Hour 
8-Hour 

35.0  PPM 
9.0  PPM 

20.0  PPM 
9.0  PPM 

Nitrogen  Dioxide  (NO2) 

Annual  Average 
1-Hour 

0.U5  rrM 
N/A- 

N/A 
0.25  PPM 



Sulfur  Dioxide  fSO-A 

Annual  Avprfitrp 

1-Hour 
24-Hour 

0  03  PPM 

N/A 
0.14  PPM 

N/A 
0.25  PPM 
0.04  PPM 

PM.o 

Annual  Average 
24-Hour 

50  ug/m3 
150  u.g/m3 

20  ug/m3 
50  ug/m3 

PM25 

Annual 
24-Hour 

15  pg/m3 
65  pg/m3 

1 2  (ig/m3 
N/A 

Lead 

Calendar  Quarter 
ju  Day  /werage 

1.5  ug/m3 

M/A 

N/A 
1.5  ug/m3 

Sulfates 

24  Hour 

25  ug/m3 

N/A 

Hydrogen  Sulfide 

1-Hour 

0.03  PPM 

N/A 

Vinyl  Chloride 

24-Hour 

0.01  PPM 

N/A 

Source:  California  Air  Resources  Board,  Ambient  Air  Quality  Standards,  July  9,  2003. 
(http://www.arb.ca.gov/aqs/aaqs2.pdf) 


Notes: 

N/A  =  Information  not  applicable  or  does  not  exist 

PPM  =  Parts  per  Million 

ug/m3  =  Micrograms  per  Cubic  Meter 

State  Ambient  Air  Quality  Standards  for  ozone,  carbon  monoxide,  sulfur  dioxide  (1-hour  and  24-hour),  nitrogen 
dioxide,  and  inhalable  particulate  matter  are  values  that  are  not  to  be  exceeded.  All  other  state  standards  shown 
are  values  not  to  be  equaled  or  exceeded. 

National  Ambient  Air  Quality  Standards,  other  than  ozone  and  those  based  on  annual  averages,  are  not  to  be 
exceeded  more  than  once  a  year.  The  ozone  standard  is  attained  when  the  fourth  highest  eight  hour  concentration 
in  a  year,  averaged  over  three  years,  is  equal  to  or  less  than  the  standard.  For  PM10,the  24  hour  standard  is  attained 
when  the  expected  number  of  days  per  calendar  year  with  a  24-hour  average  concentration  above  150  |ig/m3  is 
equal  to  or  less  than  one.  For  PM2.5,  the  24-hour  standard  is  attainted  when  98  percent  of  the  daily  concentrations, 
averaged  over  three  years,  are  equal  to  or  less  than  the  standard. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.256 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 


Attainment  Status 

The  CARB  and  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (USEPA)  have  designated  the  Bay 
Area  as  nonattainment  for  the  8-hour  ozone  standard,  and  as  unclassifiable  attainment  for  the 
federal  PM2.5  standards. 

While  adoption  of  a  new  8-hour  federal  ozone  standard  will  require  preparation  of  a  new 
attainment  plan  for  this  pollutant,  the  adoption  of  the  new  federal/state  standards  for  PM2  5 
and  revisions  to  the  state  PM10  standard  would  not  result  in  new  attainment  planning  efforts. 
The  Bay  Area  is  an  attainment  area  for  the  federal  particulate  matter  standards,  and  state 
standard  nonattainment  areas  for  PMi0  or  PM2.5  are  not  required  to  prepare  attainment  plans 
under  the  California  Clean  Air  Act  of  1988. 

The  ambient  air  quality  standards  are  concentrations  rather  than  mass  emission  thresholds; 
their  modification  would  only  affect  stationary  sources  of  pollutants  that  are  subject  to 
concentration  limits  as  well  as  mass  emission  limits.  The  use  of  a  mass  emission  threshold 
for  regional  pollutants  such  as  ozone  and  particulate  matter  is  appropriate  because,  for  an 
indirect  source  (something  that  attracts  vehicle-trips  from  a  large  area),  no  individual  project 
could  cause  a  violation  of  a  standard.  The  BAAQMD  threshold  of  significance  for  PMi0  of 
80  pounds  per  day  is  equivalent  to  the  District's  definition  of  a  major  modification  to  a  major 
facility  (Regulation  2-2-221),  which  is  not  directly  related  to  the  ambient  air  quality 
standards. 

The  thresholds  for  ROG  and  NOx  (ozone  precursors)  are  equivalent  to  the  District  offset 
requirement  (15  tons  per  year)  for  stationary  sources,  and  are  likewise  not  based  on 
exceedance  of  any  ambient  air  quality  standard. 

PM2.5 

The  BAAQMD  thresholds  provide  the  definition  of  an  emission  that  "contributes 
substantially  to  an  existing  or  projected  air  quality  violation."  Project  emissions  of  PMI0  are 
substantially  below  this  threshold,  so  project  impacts  on  particulate  matter  were  determined 
to  be  less  than  significant.  Emissions  of  PM2.5  were  not  calculated  separately  due  to  the 
inability  of  current  emission  forecasting  tools  to  differentiate  PM2.5  from  PMi0  and  because 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.257 


July  28, 2005 


VH.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

the  BAAQMD  Guidelines  have  no  PM2.5  mass  emission  thresholds  that  could  be  utilized  to 
assess  the  significance  of  PM2.5  emissions  separate  from  PMi0.  Both  the  State  of  California 
and  USEPA  are  currently  developing  methods  and  techniques  to  address  PM2.5  emissions,  but 
the  body  of  knowledge  regarding  emission  factors  for  this  pollutant  is  not  as  extensive  as  that 
used  for  PM10.  The  URBEMIS  computer  program  used  to  forecast  emissions  from  the 
project  and  used  statewide  for  the  analysis  of  project  impacts  does  not  differentiate  PM2.5 
separate  from  PMi0. 

It  is  known  that,  as  a  subset  of  PMi0,  PM2.5  emissions  would  necessarily  be  less  than  that  for 
PM10.  Based  on  the  fraction  of  PMi0  and  PM2.5  for  particulate  matter  speciation  profiles 
contained  in  the  California  Emission  Inventory  and  Reporting  System  (CEIDARS)  for  paved- 
road  dust  (the  primary  source  of  particulate  emissions  for  an  indirect  source),  PM2.5 
emissions  would  be  roughly  16.9  percent  of  PMi0  emissions,  which  would  be  6.1  pounds  per 
day.46 

Table  C&R.19  on  the  following  page  updates  the  information  in  Table  8  on  page  85  of  the 
DEIR.  It  includes  information  on  data  from  2002  and  includes  levels  of  PM2.5  with  respect  to 
the  air  quality  standards  in  effect  at  the  time.  Subsequent  standard  changes  are  noted  in  the 
footnotes.  This  additional  year's  data  does  not  result  in  changes  to  the  DEIR  analysis  of 
impacts  or  conclusions. 

The  DEIR  is  revised  so  the  first  sentence  in  the  last  paragraph  on  page  8 1  regarding  ambient 
air  quality  standards  incorporating  "an  adequate  margin  of  safety"  is  changed.  The  sentence 
now  reads:  "The  ambient  air  quality  standards  are  intended  to  protect  public  health  and 
welfare,  and  they  incorporate  an  adequate  margin  of  safety. " 


California  Air  Resources  Board,  California  Emission  Inventory  and  Reporting  System  (CEIDARS),  2003. 
BAAQMD's  threshold  for  significant  impacts  of  PMi0  is  80  pounds  per  day. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.258 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 


Table  C&R.19  (Revised  EIR  Table  8) 

San  Francisco  Air  Pollutant  Summary,  1998-2002 

Monitoring  Data  by  Year1 

Pollutant 

Standard 

1  QQO 

">nnn 

ZUU1 

zuuz 

Highest  1  -hr  average,  ppm 

0.092 

A  AO 

U.Uo 

a  r\c 
U.U6 

A  A/C 

U.Uo 

A  A  A 

U.U4 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

A 
U 

A 

u 

A 
U 

A 
U 

Highest  8-hr  average,  ppm 

0.08 

0.08 

0.05 

0.05 

0.05 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Carbon  Monoxide 

Highest  8-hr  average,  ppm 

9.02 

4.2 

3.2 

3.3 

2.6 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Nitrogen  Dioxide 

Highest  1-hr  average,  ppm 

0.252 

0.10 

0.07 

0.07 

0.08 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

0 

0 

0 

0  i 

Sulfur  Dioxide 

Highest  1-hr  average,  ppm 

0.052 

U.UU  1 

U.UUJ 

U.UU  / 

u.uuo 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

0 

0 

0 

o  ! 

Particulate  Matter  (PM,0) 

Highest  24-hr  average,  |ig/m3 

502 

78 

53 

67 

74 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

6 

2 

7 

2 

Annual  Geometric  Mean,  |ig/m3 

302 

22.7 

21.7 

22.9 

18.7 

Particulate  Matter  (PM2.5) 

Highest  24-hr  average,  U-g/m3 

65 

47.9 

76.6 

70 

n/a 

Number  of  standard  excesses 

0 

2 

4 

Annual  Geometric  Mean,  (ig/m3 

154 

11.4 

11.5 

13.1 

Source:  California  Air  Resources  Board,  Aerometric  Data  Analysis  &  Management  (ADAM),  2003;  and  Bay  Area 
Air  Quality  Management  District,  Bay  Area  Air  Pollution  Summary,  1999-2002. 


Notes:  , 
ppm  =  parts  per  million;  ng/m3  =  micrograms  per  cubic  meter, 
n/a  =  Not  applicable  or  does  not  exist. 

1  All  data  were  collected  at  the  Arkansas  Street  Station. 

2  State  standard,  not  to  be  exceeded. 

3  State  standard  was  revised  downward  to  20  ug/m3  effective  July  5,  2003. 

4  State  of  California  adopted  a  more  stringent  annual  average  standard  of  12  ug/m,3  which  became  effective  July  5, 
2003.  Therefore,  there  were  no  exceedances  in  1999  and  2000. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.259 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

Comment  #116 

"The  report  does  not  address  the  significance  of  traffic-related  pollution  to  increasing  ambient 
concentrations  of  several  hazardous  air  pollutants.  The  only  hazardous  air  pollutant  that  the  DEIR 
even  mentions  is  diesel  exhaust.  There  are  many  others  that  are  directly  associated  with  traffic- 
related  emissions  including  benzene,  formaldehyde,  and  acrolein.  Each  of  these  will  add  to  the  risk 
created  by  the  Home  Depot  project.  All  of  these  should  be  assessed  and  considered  together. 
Separating  out  only  one  of  them  is  not  a  valid  approach."  (Amy  D.  Kyle,  Ph.D.,  M.P.H.,  Resident) 

"I  believe  that  the  environment  report  does  not  include  all  of  the  environmental  impacts  and  is 
unacceptable.  The  report  only  looked  at  diesel  exhaust.  Other  contaminants  should  have  been 
looked  at."  (Amy  C.  Miller  and  Virginia  Bowen,  Residents) 

"In  addition,  the  reactive  organic  gases  that  are  ozone  precursors  are,  in  their  own  right,  toxic  air 
contaminants.  We're  talking  about  volatile  organic  compounds  like  benzine  formaldehyde,  and  a 
whole  series  of  other  VOCs  -  most  of  which  are  listed  by  the  State  of  California  Air  Resources 
Board  as  toxic  air  contaminants  -  and  yet  were  not  addressed  in  the  EIR.  The  only  toxic  air 
contaminant  addressed  in  the  EIR  is  exhaust  particulate."  (Gina  M..  Solomon,  M.D.,  M.P.H.,  oral 
testimony) 

"The  EIR  fails  to  evaluate  project  impacts  from  a  host  of  Toxic  Air  Contaminants.  Reactive  Organic 
Gases  are  volatile  chemicals  that  have  significant  toxicity  in  their  own  right.  They  include  toxic  air 
contaminants  such  as  benzene,  toluene,  1,3-butadiene,  formaldehyde,  and  others.  Benzene,  and  1,3- 
butadiene  are  known  human  carcinogens.  Formaldehyde  is  a  probable  carcinogen  and  airway 
irritant.  Toluene  is  'known  to  the  State  of  California  to  cause  birth  defects  or  reproductive  harm.'1 
Toxic  air  contaminants  (TACs)  are  a  variety  of  hazardous  chemicals  that  are  emitted  by  diesel  and 
gasoline  engines.  The  EIR  fails  to  perform  risk  assessments  for  any  of  these  chemicals,  even  though 
they  are  toxic  air  contaminants  and  should  be  included  in  the  EIR."  (Gina  M.  Solomon,  M.D., 
M.P.H.,  written  comments) 

Cal  EPA,  Office  of  Environmental  Health  Hazard  Assessment,  Chemicals  Known  to  the  State  to  Cause 
Cancer  or  Reproductive  Toxicity. 

Response  #116 

The  air  quality  impact  analysis  was  conducted  utilizing  the  BAAQMD  CEQA  Guidelines. 
Neither  these  guidelines  nor  the  District's  General  Risk  Management  Plan  require  or  suggest 
that  indirect  sources,  which  the  Home  Depot  would  be,  prepare  analyses  of  risk  from  mobile 
sources.  The  one  exception  to  this  would  be  projects  that  generate  substantial  diesel  truck 
traffic.  According  to  Brian  Bateman,  BAAQMD  Toxics  Evaluation  Section  Manager,  the 
overwhelming  source  of  risk  associated  with  mobile  sources  is  from  diesel  particulate 47 


Brian  Bateman,  BAAQMD  Toxics  Evaluation  Section  Manager,  personal  communication  with  Donald  Ballanti, 
certified  meteorologist  and  air  quality  consultant  for  the  DEIR,  September  1 1,  2003. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.260 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

While  diesel  vehicles  make  up  about  4  percent  of  the  total  vehicle  fleet,  they  are  responsible 
for  about  75  percent  of  the  total  health  risk  associated  with  mobile  sources. 

The  DEIR  addressed  this  impact  by  examining  worst-case  exposure  to  project-related  truck 
traffic  accessing  and  using  the  loading  docks.  The  loading  docks  were  selected  for  modeling 
because  it  would  be  the  focus  of  truck  traffic  and  idling,  and  would  represent  the  maximum 
exposure  of  persons  to  project-generated  mobile-source  toxic  air  contaminants  (TACs). 

Cars  and  trucks  release  at  least  forty  different  TACs,  as  noted  by  the  commenter.  The  most 
important,  in  terms  of  health  risk,  are  diesel  particulates,  benzene,  formaldehyde,  1,3- 
butadiene,  and  acetaldehyde.  Diesel  particulates  cannot  be  differentiated  from  other 
particulate  matter.  Particulate  matter  is  a  conglomerate  of  naturally-occurring,  directly- 
emitted  man-made,  and  photochemically-produced,  materials  suspended  in  the  atmosphere. 
The  mass  of  particles  per  unit  volume  is  measurable,  but  there  is  currently  no  practical 
method  of  determining  what  portion  of  the  particulate  is  attributable  to  diesel  engine  exhaust. 
The  DEIR  quantitatively  projected  diesel  particulate  concentrations  and  associated  health 
risks  using  an  air  pollution  model.  Diesel  health  risks  must  be  addressed  in  this  manner 
because  concentrations  of  diesel  particulate  cannot  be  measured  or  monitored. 

On  the  other  hand,  benzene,  formaldehyde,  1,3 -butadiene,  and  acetaldehyde  are  all  chemicals 
that  can  be  relatively  easily  measured  in  the  atmosphere,  but  which  are  not  amenable  to 
modeling.  Modeling  is  made  difficult  by  a  variety  of  circumstances.  The  first  is  uncertainty 
about  emission  factors.  All  of  these  chemicals  result  from  the  combustion  or  evaporation  of 
gasoline  (and  other  processes),  but  it  is  known  that  there  are  wide  variations  in  emission  rates 
of  each  chemical  from  different  vehicle  types  (diesel,  gasoline),  technology  groups 
(carbureted,  fuel  injected,  etc.)  and  emission  control  systems.  Such  detailed  emission  factors 
are  not  currently  available.  Even  if  such  detailed  emission  factors  were  available,  a  much 
more  detailed  breakdown  of  vehicle  ages,  sizes,  engine  types,  technology  groups,  etc.,  for  a 
given  stretch  of  roadway  would  be  required  than  is  currently  available. 

A  second  factor  that  makes  modeling  of  benzene,  formaldehyde,  1,3-butadiene,  and 
acetaldehyde  impractical  is  that  they  are  not  inert.  The  air  quality  models  capable  of 
predicting  concentrations  near  highways  were  developed  for  "inert"  pollutants  such  as  carbon 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.261 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

monoxide  (CO).  These  chemicals  take  part  in  chemical  reactions  and  are  created  from  other 
precursors  in  the  atmosphere,  so  they  would  not  be  considered  inert. 

Two  recent  research  efforts  provide  information  on  the  relative  risk  from  non-diesel  mobile 
source  TACs.  The  MATES-II  (Multiple  Air  Toxics  Exposure  Study)  conducted  in  southern 
California  was  a  comprehensive  survey  of  air  toxic  exposure  at  locations  impacted  by  mobile 
source  emissions.  This  study  found  that  about  70  percent  of  all  risk  from  TACs  is 
attributable  to  diesel  particulate  emissions,  about  20  percent  was  attributable  to  other  TACs 
associated  with  mobile  sources  (including  benzene,  formaldehyde,  1,3-butadiene,  and 
acetaldehyde).  The  remaining  10  percent  of  the  risk  was  attributed  to  stationary  sources. 

The  MATES-II  study  did  not  find  evidence  that  mobile  source  toxic  risk  is  attributable  to 
local  traffic.  Risk  levels  ascribed  to  nearby  sources  inventoried  for  the  study  are  generally 
much  lower  than  region-wide  risk  levels.  Region-wide  risks  tend  to  overwhelm  any  potential 
local  'hot  spots.'48  The  MATES-II  study  monitored  air  toxics  at  three  microscale  sites 
specifically  chosen  "because  of  influence  and  proximity  to  major  mobile  sources  (e.g., 
congested  freeways)."  The  South  Coast  Air  Quality  Management  District  concluded,  in  part: 
"No  significantly  higher  levels  of  key  mobile  source  toxics  compounds,  benzene  and  1,3 
butadiene,  were  found  at  any  of  the  microscale  sites,  including  those  sited  near  freeways 
specifically  for  mobile  source  influences.  "* 

As  part  of  the  Children's  Environmental  Health  Protection  Program,  CARB  performed 
monitoring  programs  in  six  communities  around  the  state  where  children  are  typically 
present,  such  as  schools  and  daycare  centers,  and  near  sources  of  air  pollution,  including  busy 
highways  and  industry.  At  each  site,  approximately  40  toxic  air  pollutants  were  measured. 
The  closest  monitoring  location  to  the  project  site  was  the  Lockwood  Elementary  School  in 
Oakland.  This  monitoring  location  was  situated  between  the  580  and  880  freeways, 
approximately  two  miles  southeast  of  an  industrial  area.  This  site  was  selected  because  it 
was  impacted  by  several  categories  of  pollutant  emissions  and  because  of  the  large  school- 
age  population  in  the  area. 

48  Multiple  Air  Toxics  Exposure  Study  (MATES-II),  South  Coast  Air  Quality  Management  District  (AQMD), 
March  2,  2000,  http://www.aqmd.gov/matesiidf7matestoc.htm. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.262 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITV 


The  results  of  the  monitoring  and  health  risk  analysis  at  the  Lockwood  Elementary  School 
were: 

•  Total  risk  from  the  10  most  important  TACs  was  calculated  as  676  in  one  million.50 
About  71  percent  of  the  total  risk  was  attributable  to  diesel  particulate. 

Benzene  contributed  approximately  8  percent  of  the  calculated  potential  cancer  risk. 

Formaldehyde  contributed  approximately  2  percent  of  the  calculated  potential  cancer 
risk. 

•  1,3-butadiene  contributed  approximately  10  percent  of  the  calculated  potential  cancer 
risk. 

Acetaldehyde  contributed  less  than  1  percent  of  the  calculated  potential  risk. 

The  results  from  the  Lockwood  Elementary  School  site  are  similar  to  those  of  the  MATES-II 
study.  In  both  cases,  the  largest  source  of  cancer  risk  is  diesel  particulate,  contributing 
roughly  70  percent  of  the  calculated  risk.  Other  mobile-source  related  TACs  contribute 
roughly  20  percent  of  the  calculated  risk. 

The  above  ratios  are  applicable  to  the  project  site  as  the  locations  are  similar.  Assuming  the 
ratios  are  similar  and  using  the  diesel  particulate  cancer  risk  shown  in  DEIR,  the  estimated 
maximum  total  cancer  risk  from  all  mobile  source  TACs  for  the  proposed  project  would  be 
less  than  one  per  million  for  the  maximally  exposed  individual  and  well  below  the 
BAAQMD  threshold  of  significance  of  10  per  million.  This  "order  of  magnitude"  estimate  is 
based  on  the  worst-case  assumption  that  incremental  risk  is  primarily  due  to  diesel  exhaust 
and  that  the  other  components  of  risk  are  due  to  additional  project  traffic  on  local  streets. 
The  MATES-II  study  described  above  found,  however,  that  region-wide  risks  tend  to 
overwhelm  any  potential  local  "hot  spots"  and  that  risks  are  not  correlated  with  local  traffic. 

In  sum,  the  DEIR  concluded  on  page  92  that  project  impacts  related  to  TACs  would  be  well 
below  the  BAAQMD  thresholds  of  significance  and  would  be  less-than-significant. 

Comment  #117 

"The  congestion  will  increase  pollution  vastly  over  what  is  projected  in  the  DEIR,  which  assumes 
that  cars  will  be  moving  at  an  average  speed  of  25  mph.  This  speed  is  not  being  attained  today.  The 

50  This  represents  the  incremental  probability  of  contracting  cancer  over  a  lifetime,  based  on  a  70-year  exposure. 
200 1.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196 Loomis  Street  C&R.263  July 28,2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

DEIR  needs  to  have  traffic  and  air  quality  impacts  re-examined  to  reflect  the  gridlock  conditions  that 
will  exist  much  of  the  time."  (Amy  D.  Kyle,  Ph.D.,  M.P.H,  Resident) 

"The  EIR  underestimates  the  air  quality  impacts  on  the  neighborhood.  The  Draft  EIR  fails  to 
consider  cumulative  impacts,  including  current  air  quality  conditions  associated  with  traffic  in  the 
local  area,  and  projected  future  air  quality  once  Home  Depot  and  various  other  businesses  are  all 
located  along  Bayshore  Boulevard.  In  particular,  we  have  been  informed  that  other  'big  box'  stores 
are  considering  property  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  if  the  Home  Depot  project  is  approved.  This  'big 
box  alley1  would  result  in  air  quality  impacts  far  in  excess  of  those  projected  in  this  EIR  and  would 
result  in  a  serious  cumulative  impact  on  the  neighborhood  and  the  region.  Locating  a  'big  box  alley' 
in  such  close  proximity  to  a  residential  neighborhood  and  a  school  would  be  a  poor  public  policy 
decision  and  could  constitute  a  significant  health  and  environmental  threat  to  the  area. 

"The  Draft  EIR  seriously  underestimates  likely  air  pollution  impacts  from  the  proposed  project  by 
failing  to  consider  three  important,  yet  obvious,  factors:  First,  the  Draft  EIR  assumes  that  all  vehicles 
are  traveling  at  a  constant  speed  of  25  miles  per  hour.  However,  the  traffic  study  indicates  that  there 
will  be  primarily  stop-and-go  traffic  at  most  major  intersections  in  the  neighborhood.  This  is  because 
of  the  combination  of  stop  signs,  traffic  lights,  and  heavy  traffic  projected  as  a  result  of  this  project. 
Traffic  that  is  stopping  and  starting  generates  far  higher  emissions  than  traffic  moving  at  a  constant 
speed  of  25  miles  per  hour.  For  example,  VOC  emissions  rates  for  a  1980s  car  would  double  from 
about  7  g/mi  to  about  14  g/mi  if  the  car  is  stopping  and  starting  rather  than  traveling  at  a  constant  25 
mph  (Figure  [Refer  to  Appendix  E  of  this  document,  Gina  Solomon  Letter  dated  July  3,  2003,  Figure 
1]).  Carbon  monoxide  emissions  for  a  similar  car  would  increase  from  about  75  g/mi  to  about  175 
g/mi.  It  is  clear  that  the  assumption  that  vehicles  will  travel  a  constant  speed  of  25  mph  is  not  only 
patently  false,  but  it  will  also  seriously  underestimate  the  impact  of  this  project."  (Gina  M.  Solomon, 
M.D.,  M.P.H,  written  comments.) 

"There  are  a  number  of  things  in  the  EIR  that  underestimate.  For  example,  there's  no  consideration 
of  idling  vehicles;  no  consideration  of  the  fact  that  vehicles  in  stop-and-go  driving  generate  far  more 
carbon  monoxide  and  volatile  organic  compounds  than  vehicles  traveling  at  a  constant  speed  of  25 
miles  an  hour  -  which  is  what  is  assumed  in  the  EIR,  quite  incorrectly."  (Gina  M.  Solomon,  M.D., 
M.P.H.,  oral  testimony) 

"The  EIR  clearly  underestimates  the  air  quality  impacts  on  the  neighborhood  by  not  correctly 
calculating  air  pollution  impacts  from  traffic.  It  assumes  all  vehicles  travel  at  a  constant  25  miles  per 
hour,  but  there  will  be  (and  there  is  now)  stop-and-go  traffic  from  stop  signs  and  heavy  traffic,  to  say 
nothing  of  eventual  traffic  lights.  In  addition,  vehicles  coming  up  Bemal  Hill  from  Mission,  a  steep 
climb,  will  have  substantially  more  emissions  when  under  a  heavier  load.  And  cars  looking  for 
parking  (which  happens  now)  often  idle  while  looking  for  space,  thereby  emitting  more  pollutants. 
More  alarming  is  the  possibility  of  this  site  on  Bayshore  becoming  the  first  of  many,  as  has  been 
indicated.  Such  close  proximity  to  a  residential  neighborhood  and  school  is  frightening."  (Linda 
Weiner,  Resident,  Director  of  Air  Quality  Advocacy  for  the  American  Lung  Association) 

Response  #1 17 

The  URBEMIS  computer  program  developed  by  the  CARB  calculates  the  emissions  from  all 
trips  to  or  from  the  project  site  over  the  entire  length  of  the  trip,  including  idling.  One  of  the 
factors  considered  is  an  estimate  of  average  vehicle  speed.  That  does  not  assume  that  traffic 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.264 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

flows  at  a  constant  speed,  rather  the  speed  during  the  entire  trip  would  be  quite  variable.  The 
definition  of  average  vehicle  speed  is  distance  traveled  divided  by  the  time  of  travel, 
therefore  it  would  include  periods  of  idling. 

URBEMIS  calculates  daily  emissions,  so  the  speed  input  reflects  the  average  speed  over  the 
entire  day  over  a  large  segment  of  the  transportation  system,  and  is  not  meant  to  represent 
local  conditions.  For  instance,  a  home-to- work  trip  with  an  average  trip  length  of  13  miles 
would  likely  include  some  surface  street  travel  and  some  freeway  travel,  and  only  a  small 
portion  of  the  trip  would  occur  within  the  surrounding  area  of  the  project.  The  BAAQMD 
recommends  an  average  speed  of  25  mph  for  calibrating  potential  project  impacts  within  San 
Francisco  County.  This  reflects  greater  assumed  congestion,  since  the  recommended  average 
speed  for  Bay  Area  counties  other  than  San  Francisco  is  35  mph.  The  use  of  25  mph  is  not 
unreasonable  given  the  intent  of  the  average  speed  to  reflect  conditions  averaged  over  the 
length  of  the  trip  and  over  the  entire  time  of  the  day  that  the  trips  occur. 

The  25  mph  average  speed  was  only  used  by  the  URBEMIS  program  to  estimate  total 
regional  emissions  such  as  ROG,  NOx,  and  particulate  matter  for  the  entire  length  of  all 
project  related  trips  over  a  24-hour  period.  The  analysis  of  CO  concentrations  used  a 
BAAQMD  screening  procedure  to  predict  concentrations  at  specific  locations  near  surface 
street  intersections  and  used  emission  factors  based  on  a  5-mph  average  vehicle  speed.  These 
factors  for  CO  analyses  are  representative  of  conditions  near  intersections  during  the  peak 
hours. 

The  DEIR  addressed  the  cumulative  impact  of  the  project  on  local  and  regional  air  quality. 
The  CALINE-4  program  was  utilized  to  forecast  worst-case  concentrations  of  CO  at  affected 
intersections  with  cumulative  traffic  increases.  According  to  BAAQMD  significance  criteria, 
any  proposed  project  that  would  individually  have  a  significant  air  quality  impact  would  also 
be  considered  to  have  a  significant  cumulative  air  quality  impact.  Since  the  proposed  project 
would  exceed  the  BAAQMD  thresholds  of  significance  for  ROG,  the  DEIR  identified,  on 
pages  91  and  113,  that  the  project  would  have  a  significant  cumulative  impact  on  regional  air 
quality. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.265 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

Comment  #118 

"In  addition,  they  seem  to  think  Bernal  Heights  is  flat.  Vehicles  that  go  up  and  down  hills  are  known 
to  generate  significantly  more  pollution. 

"A  significant  portion  of  the  automobile  traffic  to  the  site  is  projected  to  come  over  Bernal  Hill  (via 
Cortland  Avenue  or  smaller  side  streets).  Emissions  studies  consistently  demonstrate  that  vehicle 
emissions  increase  substantially  when  the  engines  are  under  higher  load  conditions  as  a  result  of  an 
uphill  grade.  A  report  from  the  Lawrence  Berkeley  National  Laboratory  states: 

"Under  high  speed  and  acceleration  requirements,  today's  vehicles  are  designed  to  have 
excess  fuel  injected  into  the  engine  cylinder.  This  'enrichment'  of  the  air/fuel  mixture  leads 
to  elevated  CO  and  HC  formation  during  combustion,  with  no  oxygen  available  for  pollutant 
conversion  to  CO2  and  water  in  the  catalyst.  The  result  is  a  temporary  'puff  of  high  tailpipe 
CO  and  HC  emissions  (Goodwin  and  Ross  1996).  In  some  vehicles,  fuel  injection  is  cut  off 
during  rapid  decelerations.  This  can  lead  to  cylinder  misfire  and  a  temporary  'puff  of  high 
HC  emission  (An  et  al.  1 997). 1 

"It  is  surprising  that  an  EIR  done  in  San  Francisco  should  omit  the  important  consideration  of  hills." 
(Gina  M.  Solomon,  M.D.,  M.P.H.) 

1  Wenzel  T.,  Singer  B.C.,  Slott  R.  Some  Issues  in  the  Statistical  Analysis  of  Vehicle  Emissions. 
Environmental  Energy  Technologies  Division,  Lawrence  Berkeley  National  Laboratory. 
http://eetd.lbl.gov/IEP/PSDC/abstratcs/singer2.pdf. 

Response  #118 

Vehicles  climbing  hills  do  emit  more  emissions  per  mile  than  on  level  roads,  but  vehicles  on 
the  opposite  side  of  the  road  going  downhill  emit  less  emissions  per  mile.  This  effect  is  self- 
canceling,  and  thus  uphill  and  downhill  are  "reflected"  in  air  quality  modeling.  This  is  a 
standard  practice  in  California  air  quality  modeling.  As  described  in  Response  to  Comment 
#117,  the  URBEMIS  program  tracks  trips  over  the  entire  length  of  the  trip  and  reflects 
averaged  conditions  over  the  length  of  the  trip  rather  than  specific  parts  of  the  trip.  The 
effect  of  slope  on  overall  emissions  is  quite  small,  thus,  the  URBEMIS  program  and  CARB's 
EMFAC  (emission  factor)  program  (which  is  the  basis  for  the  URBEMIS  calculations) 
provide  no  adjustment  for  varying  slope  or  terrain.  There  is  no  net  elevation  gain  or  loss 
when  considering  all  trips  to  and  from  an  indirect  source. 


Comment  #119 

"Stalled,  idling  cars  will  release  emissions  and  damage  air  quality  in  surrounding  areas."  (Amy 
Beinart,  Resident) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.266 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

"Traffic  delays  mean  cars  idling,  with  increased  car  exhaust  pollution.  Put  this  project  somewhere 
where  cars  won't  have  to  idle  in  order  to  arrive/leave  the  center."  (Eugenie  Marek,  Resident) 

"The  EIR  failed  to  consider  the  idling  of  cars  looking  for  parking  at  busy  times  as  described  in  the 
traffic  report  produced  by  Wilbur  Smith  Associates.  Idling  vehicles  are  an  additional  source  of  all  of 
the  air  pollutants  discussed  in  this  EIR,  yet  they  were  not  included  at  all  in  the  analyses.  The  United 
States  Environmental  Protection  Agency's  Office  of  Mobile  Sources  has  provided  standard  idling 
estimates  for  various  vehicle  types  and  weather  conditions.1  These  are  readily  available  for  inclusion 
in  an  EIR  to  include  these  in  the  air  quality  impacts  assessment.  The  emissions  of  hydrocarbons 
(VOCs)  and  of  carbon  monoxide  from  idling  passenger  cars  are  a  serious  contributor  to  air  quality 
and  must  be  included  to  fully  capture  the  air  quality  impacts  of  this  project."  (Gina  M.  Solomon, 
M.D..M.P.H.) 

1  http://www.epa.gov/otaq/consumer/f98014.pdf. 
Response  #119 

As  noted  in  Responses  to  Comments  #117  and  #118,  the  idling  of  vehicles  is  a  factor 
considered  in  the  use  of  the  URBEMIS  program,  which  was  used  in  the  DEIR  to  predict 
project  emissions  of  hydrocarbons  (VOCs).  Inherent  in  the  assumption  of  an  average  25  mph 
speed  over  the  length  of  the  trips  averaged  over  time  and  averaged  geographically  is  that 
delays  would  occur.  Exhaust  emission  rates  for  various  vehicle  types  are  based  on  a  standard 
exhaust  emissions  driving  cycle  that  simulates  urban  driving  with  frequent  deceleration, 
idling  and  acceleration  over  a  distance  of  approximately  11  miles.51  These  rates  are  part  of 
the  UREMBIS  program. 

Idling  of  vehicles  is  also  inherent  in  the  analysis  of  CO  concentrations,  which  uses  a 
BAAQMD  screening  procedure  to  predict  concentrations  near  surface  street  intersections. 
This  model  uses  emission  factors  based  on  a  5-mph  average  vehicle  speed. 

The  project  is  not  anticipated  to  increase  idling  within  the  surrounding  neighborhood  by 
vehicles  looking  for  parking  most  of  the  time.  The  project  includes  a  parking  garage 
providing  539  spaces.  As  noted  in  Response  to  Comment  #94,  during  times  of  peak 
occupancy  in  the  garage,  the  project's  parking  supply  may  not  be  able  to  accommodate  the 
entire  parking  demand,  and  vehicles  would  have  to  park  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  or  Loomis 


51  California  Exhaust  Emissions  Standards  and  Test  Procedures  for  2001  and  Subsequent  Model  Passenger  Cars, 
Light-Duty  Trucks,  and  Medium-Duty  Vehicles,  California  Air  Resources  Board,  August  5,  1999. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R267 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

Street  where  there  is  currently  on-street  parking  available.  On  those  occasions,  idling  of  cars 
could  increase,  but  it  would  not  be  significant. 


Comment  #120 

"The  report  does  not  consider  the  effects  of  increased  air  pollution  on  vulnerable  populations.  In 
general,  we  know  from  epidemiology  studies  that  children  and  the  elderly  are  groups  at  greater  risk 
of  harm  from  exposure  to  most  air  pollutants.  We  also  know  that  people  with  existing  respiratory 
diseases  are  at  greater  risk.  Such  populations  should  be  of  concern  in  any  attempt  to  address  air 
quality. 

"The  report  does  not  even  pretend  to  address  the  contribution  of  this  project  to  increased 
concentrations  of  ozone  in  the  Bay  Area.  The  DEIR  acknowledges  this  as  an  impact  of  the  project. 
It  should  be  addressed.  Increased  air  quality  impacts  are  not  acceptable,  and  the  City  needs  to  be 
working  on  reducing  air  pollution,  not  increasing  it. 

"Ozone  is  one  of  the  six  'criteria'  pollutants.  It  is  a  significant  health  concern  because  it  is  known  to 
alter  lung  function  and  contribute  to  respiratory  disease.  There  are  more  violations  of  ozone 
standards  than  those  for  any  other  criteria  air  pollutant  in  the  U.S.  The  Bay  Area  Air  Quality 
Management  District  has  been  designated  as  being  in  'non-attainment'  status  for  ozone.  This  means 
that  it  is  considered  to  be  out  of  compliance  with  the  National  Ambient  Air  Quality  Standards,  and 
that  the  State  and  the  Air  District  are  supposed  to  take  steps  to  attain  compliance.  Allowing 
unmitigated  increases  in  releases  of  gases  that  contribute  to  ozone  formation  is  not  acceptable. 
Motor  vehicles  are  the  most  significant  source  of  the  chemicals  that  lead  to  formation  of  ozone 
(ozone  precursors)  in  the  Bay  Area.  In  2000,  EPA  reports  that  the  Bay  Area  exceeded  the  federal 
ozone  standard  on  3  days.  In  1999,  there  were  also  3  exceedance  days.  In  1998,  there  were  8  days."1 
(AmyD.  Kyle,  Ph.D.,  M.P.H.,  Resident) 

1  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Region  9.  Fact  Sheet.  Notice  of  Proposed  Rulemaking.  Partial 
Approval/Partial  Disapproval  of  Ozone  Attainment  Plan  and  Finding  of  Failure  to  Attain.  March  12,  2001. 
http://www.epa.gov/region09/air/sfbayoz/fact0103.html. 

"It  says  there's  going  to  be  big  air  problems.  I  have  worked  27  years  with  pre-schoolers;  I  have  seen 
a  massive  increase  in  asthma.  I  didn't  have  kids  with  asthma  27  years  ago.  I  didn't  have  it.  Now  I've 
got  kids  with  asthma  and  with  inhalers  at  school,  and  I'm  ready  to  do  CPR.  This  is  not  right."  (Ingrid 
Mardeson,  Resident) 

"67  pounds  of  NOx  is  too  much.  Remember  that  Home  Depot  is  next  to  a  neighborhood  where  there 
are  schools  and  many  elderly  people  live  in  Bemal  Heights.  They  can  suffer  more  from  toxic  air. 

"The  report  says  that  it  will  exceed  PM  and  ozone  standards.  This  is  unacceptable.  We  urge  you  not 
to  allow  our  air  to  become  dirtier."  (Amy  C.  Miller  and  Virginia  Bowen,  Residents) 

"And  it  is  incredible  that  people  think  that  there's  not  going  to  be  any  difference  in  pollution  and  stuff 
like  that.  I'm  58  years  old.  I  go  to  the  gym  every  day.  I  don't  smoke;  I  don't  drink;  I'm  in  perfect 
health.    I'll  go  to  Colma  right  up  the  street.    If  something  happens  to  me,  who  is  going  to  be 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.268 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

responsible  for  this?  My  son  and  daughter?  My  father  died  from  emphysema,  from  smoking;  a 
terrible  death.  That's  what  I'm  worried  about."  (Bill  Nieto,  Resident) 

"I'm  a  senior  scientist  at  the  Natural  Resources  Defense  Council,  and  an  assistant  professor  of 
medicine  at  UC-San  Francisco.  I'm  here  tonight,  however,  as  a  resident  of  Bernal  Heights.  I  read  the 
draft  EIR  with  great  interest,  with  focus  particularly  on  the  air  quality  section,  as  that  is  my  area  of 
expertise.  And  I  have  some  significant  concerns.  Obviously  there's  a  threshold  concern,  because  the 
EIR  states  quite  clearly  that  there  is  a  significant  unmitigable  impact  on  reactive  organic  gases  which, 
as  you  know,  are  precursors  to  ozone.  As  you  may  also  know,  there  is  quite  a  body  of 
epidemiological  literature  right  now  linking  ozone  with  asthma,  particularly  in  children.  A  major 
study  in  the  past  year  published  down  in  Los  Angeles  showed  that  children  who  play  sports  outdoors 
in  areas  where  the  ozones  are  high  -  are  more  likely  to  develop  new-onset  asthma.  These  are  kids 
who  did  not  have  asthma  when  the  study  began,  and  because  they  were  playing  sports  in  a  high- 
ozone  area  they  developed  asthma.  We  don't  want  to  go  there,  and  yet  the  Bay  Area  is  now 
designated  as  a  non-attainment  area  for  ozone,  so  we  are  going  there,  and  we  do  need  to  pull  back 
from  the  brink."  (Gina  M.  Solomon,  M.D.,  M.P.H.,  oral  testimony) 

"Air  pollution  is  linked  to  asthma.  Asthma  is  more  common  in  the  urbanized  areas  of  industrialized 
countries  and  is  particularly  common  in  children  living  along  busy  roads  and  trucking  routes.1  A 
population-based  survey  of  more  than  39,000  children  living  in  Italy  found  that  children  living  on 
streets  with  heavy  truck  traffic  were  60  to  90  percent  more  likely  to  have  acute  and  chronic 
respiratory  symptoms  such  as  wheeze  or  phlegm,  and  diagnoses  such  as  bronchitis  and  pneumonia.2 
A  German  study  of  over  3,700  adolescent  students  found  that  those  living  on  streets  with  'constant' 
truck  traffic  were  7 1  percent  more  likely  to  report  hay  fever-like  symptoms  and  more  than  twice  as 
likely  to  report  wheezing.3  Studies  have  also  shown  that  the  proximity  of  a  child's  school  to  major 
roads  is  linked  to  asthma,  and  the  severity  of  children's  asthmatic  symptoms  increases  with  proximity 
to  truck  traffic.4  Both  nitrogen  oxides  and  particulate  matter  were  linked  to  a  significant  decrease  in 
lung  function  growth  among  children  living  in  Southern  California.5  Although  some  components  of 
outdoor  air  pollution  are  beginning  to  decline  in  the  United  States,  ozone  and  fine  particulate 
pollution  (PM2.5)  from  diesel  engine  exhaust  are  an  ongoing  or  increasing  problem.6 

"Numerous  studies  have  demonstrated  that  specific  components  of  air  pollution  are  associated  with 
asthma  attacks.7  For  example,  particulate  air  pollution  has  been  linked  to  increases  in  emergency 
room  visits  for  asthma.8  Nitrogen  dioxide  (NO2)  and  sulfur  dioxide  are  directly  damaging  to  the 
respiratory  system.  Elevated  levels  of  NO2  in  outdoor  air  are  associated  with  exacerbations  of 
asthma.9  Because  these  compounds  are  airway  irritants,  it  is  not  surprising  that  they  can  trigger 
asthma  attacks. 

"Air  pollutants  may  act  in  conjunction  with  common  allergens  to  dramatically  increase  sensitivity  to 
pollen  or  other  common  proteins.  In  laboratory  volunteers,  combined  exposures  to  levels  of  ozone  or 
NO2  commonly  found  in  urban  air  and  low  levels  of  common  allergens  such  as  pollen  results  in 
dramatically  enhanced  asthmatic  or  allergic  reactions.  1  One  important  study  has  shown  that 
exposure  to  common  urban  levels  of  diesel  exhaust  can  cause  people  to  develop  allergic  reactions  to 
proteins  to  which  they  did  not  previously  react.12  In  this  study,  some  volunteers  were  exposed  to  a 
concentration  of  diesel  exhaust  roughly  equivalent  to  1-3  days  of  breathing  Los  Angeles  air  prior  to 
exposure  to  a  new  allergen.  Subjects  exposed  to  the  new  allergen  alone  did  not  develop  antibodies  to 
this  compound,  whereas  subjects  exposed  to  diesel  exhaust  followed  by  the  allergen  developed  a  full- 
blown allergy. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.269 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

"Air  pollutants  such  as  ozone  may  do  more  than  trigger  attacks  in  people  with  asthma.  New  data 
suggest  that  ozone  may  actually  cause  asthma  in  previously  health  children.13  In  a  major  prospective 
study  of  school  age  children  living  in  Southern  California,  children  who  played  outdoor  sports  in 
areas  where  ozone  levels  were  high  were  significantly  more  likely  to  become  asthmatic,  compared  to 
athletes  in  less  smoggy  areas.  Because  ozone  smog  is  an  increasing  problem  in  the  Bay  Area,  and 
because  this  proposed  project  is  projected  to  create  an  unmitigable  impact  that  includes  increased 
ozone  pollution,  this  project  contributes  to  a  significant  health  concern  for  children  living  in  San 
Francisco. 

"For  all  of  the  reasons  stated  above,  I  strongly  urge  you  to  reject  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Thank  you  for  your  consideration  of  these  comments."  (Gina  M. 
Solomon,  M.D.,  M.P.H.,  written  comments) 

I  Brunekreef  B.,  Janssen  N.A.,  de  Hartog  J.,  Haressem  H.,  Knape  M,  van  Vliet  P.  Air  pollution  from  truck 
traffic  and  lung  function  in  children  living  near  motorways.  Epidemiology  8:298-303,  1997. 

Ciccone  G.,  Fostastiere  F.,  Agabati  N.,  Biggeri  A.,  Bisanti  L.,  Chellini  E.,  et  al.  Road  traffic  and  adverse 
respiratory  effects  in  children.  SIDRIA  Collaborative  Group.  Occup  Environ  Med  55:771-778,  1998. 

3  Duhme  H.,  Weiland  S.K.,  Keil  U.,  Kraemer  B.,  Schmid  M.,  Stender  M.,  Chambless  L.  The  association 
between  self-reported  symptoms  of  asthma  and  allergic  rhinitis  and  self-reported  traffic  density  on  street  of 
residence  in  adolescents.  Epidemiology  7:578-582,  1996. 

4  Pekkanen  J.,  et  al.  Effects  of  ultrafine  and  fine  particles  in  urban  air  on  peak  expiratory  flow  among 
children  with  asthmatic  symptoms.  Environ  Res  1997;74(l):24-33. 

5  Guaderman  J.W.,  McConnell  R.,  Gilliland  F.,  London  S.,  Tomas  D.,  Avol  E.,  Vora  H.,  Berhane  K., 
Rappaport  E.B.,  Lurmann  F.  Association  between  air  pollution  and  lung  function  growth  in  Southern 
California  children.  Am  J  Resp  and  Crit  Care  Med  162:1384-1390,  2000. 

6  U.S.  EPA  National  Air  Pollutant  Emission  Trends.  Office  of  Air  Quality  Planning  and  Research,  1900- 
1996,  Appendix  A.  Washington  DC:  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  1997. 

Mortimer  K.M.,  Neas  L.M.,  Dockery  D.W.,  Redline  S.,  Tager  I.B.  The  effect  of  air  pollution  on  inner-city 
children  with  asthma.  Eur  Respir  J  19:699-705,  2002. 

D 

Norris  G,  Young  Pong  S.N.,  Koenig  J.Q.,  Larson  T.V.,  Sheppard  L.,  Stout  J.W.  An  association  between 
fine  particles  and  asthma  emergency  department  visits  for  children  in  Seattle.  Environ  Health  Perspect 
107:489-493,  1999. 

Studnicka  M.,  Hackl  E.,  Pischinger  J.,  Fangmeyer  C,  Haschke  N.,  Kuhr  J.,  Urbanek  R.,  Neumann  M., 
Frischer  T.  Traffic-related  N02  and  the  prevalence  of  asthma  and  respiratory  symptoms  in  seven  year  olds. 
Eur  Respir  J  10:2275-2278,  1997. 
10  Jorres  R.,  Nowalk  D.,  Magnussen  H.  The  effect  of  ozone  exposure  on  allergen  responsiveness  in  subjects 
with  asthma  or  rhinits.  Am  J  Respir  Crit  Care  Med  153:56-64,  1996. 

II  Strand  V.,  Svartengren  M.,  Rak  S.,  Barck  C,  Bylin  G.  Repeated  exposure  to  an  ambient  level  of  N02 
enhances  asthmatic  response  to  a  nonsymptomatic  allergen  dose.  Eur  Respir  J  12:6-12,  1998. 

12 

Diaz-Sanchez  D.,  Garcia  M.P.,  Wang  M.,  Jyrala  M.,  Saxon  A.  Nasal  challenge  with  diesel  exhaust 
particles  can  induce  sensitization  to  a  neoallergen  in  the  human  mucosa.  J  Allergy  Clin  Immunol 
104:1183-1188,1999. 

13  McConnell  R.,  Berhane  K.,  Gilliland  F.,  London  S  J.,  Islam  T.,  Gauderman  W.J.,  et  al.  Asthma  in 
exercising  children  exposed  to  ozone:  a  cohort  study.  Lancet  359:386-391,  2001. 


"I  write  this  letter  both  as  a  33-year  resident  of  Bernal  Heights  and  as  the  Director  of  Air  Quality 
Advocacy  for  the  American  Lung  Association  of  San  Francisco  and  San  Mateo  counties.  I  often 
testify  on  air  quality  issues  in  the  Bay  Area,  and  am  currently  funded  by  the  San  Francisco 
Foundation  to  coordinate  the  Bay  Area  Clean  Air  Task  Force,  comprised  of  many  credible  well- 
known  environmental  organizations. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.270 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

"But  now  to  the  science.  The  proposed  project  will  significantly  increase  regional  ozone  pollution  in 
a  non-attainment  area.  The  EIR  found  that  the  project  would  be  responsible  for  an  estimated  84.5 
lbs.  per  day  of  reactive  organic  gases,  meaning  that  there  would  be  a  'significant  unavoidable  impact' 
on  air  quality.  This  also  translates  into  precursors  for  ozone  smog,  and  this  is  unacceptable. 

"The  effect  of  all  this  traffic  pollution  on  public  health  is  well  documented,  both  nationally  and 
internationally.  An  international  study,  implemented  on  every  continent,  indicated  that,  no  matter 
what  the  economic  situation,  no  matter  the  variances  in  ethnicity  and  health  care  system,  that  as 
ozone  levels  increase,  there  is  a  corresponding  increase  in  hospitalizations  and  death  due  to 
respiratory  problems. 

"Closer  to  home,  and  in  relation  to  children,  the  results  of  the  recent  Southern  California  Children's 
Health  Study,  the  most  extensive  study  to  date  regarding  air  pollution  and  children's  health,  has 
shown  that,  over  time,  the  growth  and  development  of  the  lungs  is  compromised  in  children  living  in 
areas  of  high  pollution.  These  kids'  lungs  simply  do  not  grow  to  the  appropriate  size  for  their  bodies. 
And  in  another  recent  10-year  study,  a  new  and  startling  fact  revealed  that  smog  not  only  triggers 
asthma  attacks,  but  also  can  actually  cause  children  to  acquire  asthma  in  the  first  place.  Children  are 
particularly  vulnerable  to  the  effects  of  breathing  polluted  air  because  their  lungs  are  still  developing, 
and  they  are  more  active,  breathing  in  more  air  than  adults.  Because  ozone  smog  is  an  increasing 
problem  in  the  Bay  Area,  and  because  this  proposed  project  is  documented  to  create  an  'unmitigable 
impact'  that  includes  ozone  pollution,  building  of  the  Home  Depot  would  contribute  to  a  significant 
health  concern  for  children  living  in  Bernal  Heights  and  surrounding  neighborhoods. 

"Finally,  the  impact  of  particulate  matter  must  again  be  emphasized.  These  tiny  particles  emitted 
from  vehicle  exhaust  are  among  the  most  harmful  of  all  air  pollutants.  When  inhaled,  these  tiny 
particles  can  lodge  deep  in  the  lungs,  impair  lung  function,  and  exacerbate  bronchitis,  emphysema, 
and  asthma.  Particulate  air  pollution  has  been  directly  linked  to  increases  in  emergency  room  visits 
for  asthma.  Asthma  itself  has  been  documented  to  be  particularly  common  in  children  living  along 
busy  roads,  which  Cortland  will  undoubtedly  become  if  Home  Depot  is  built. 

"In  conclusion,  this  project  makes  no  sense,  from  an  air  quality  and  public  health  viewpoint,  to  say 
nothing  of  quality  of  life  in  the  quiet  neighborhood  of  Bernal  Heights.  In  essence,  it  is  simply 
unacceptable  to  place  a  huge  retail  outlet  next  to  a  residential  neighborhood.  It  belongs  in  a  shopping 
center,  away  from  where  folks  live.  I  strongly  urge  you  to  reject  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project 
on  Bayshore  Boulevard."  (Linda  Weiner,  Resident,  Director  of  Air  Quality  Advocacy  for  the 
American  Lung  Association) 

Response  #120 

Ozone  is  a  result  of  a  complex  series  of  photochemical  reactions  in  the  atmosphere. 
Computer  models  of  ozone  formation  require  massive  amounts  of  weather  and  emissions 
data.  Such  models  are  typically  used  in  the  development  of  regional  air  quality  plans,  but  are 
not  usable  for  forecasting  effects  of  an  individual  project. 

Regional  air  quality  plans  typically  assume  that  levels  of  ozone  are  proportional  to  the  total 
regional  emission  of  ozone  precursors,  ROG,  and  NOx.  The  DEIR  in  Table  10  on  page  92 
estimated  that  the  sum  of  emissions  from  all  trips  to  or  from  the  project  would  generate  about 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.271 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 


84.5  pounds  per  day  of  ROG  and  67.1  pounds  per  day  of  NOx.  These  emissions  would 
represent  a  0.0085  and  0.00554  percent  increase  in  regional  emissions  of  these  precursors, 
respectively.52  Under  the  assumption  that  levels  of  ozone  are  proportional  to  the  total 
regional  emission,  the  change  in  ozone  levels  from  these  emissions  would  be  immeasurably 
small  even  for  the  most  accurate  monitoring  equipment.  As  noted  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  83 
and  84,  ozone  is  a  regional  pollutant  rather  than  a  local  concern.  Local  sensitive  receptors 
would  experience  unchanged  levels  of  ozone,  since  ozone  levels  in  the  neighborhood  around 
the  proposed  site  are  unrelated  to  local  emissions. 

The  above  percentages  show  that  the  project  would  not  cause  a  measurable  significant  impact 
on  regional  ozone  concentrations,  and  this  is  true  of  all  individual  projects  regardless  of  size. 
For  this  reason,  the  BAAQMD  threshold  of  significance  is  not  based  on  a  specific  change  in 
projected  ozone  levels,  but  is  based  on  a  mass  emission  threshold.  The  use  of  a  mass 
emission  threshold  for  regional  pollutants  such  as  ozone  and  particulate  matter  is  appropriate 
because,  for  an  indirect  source  (something  that  attracts  vehicle-trips  from  a  large  area),  no 
individual  project  would  ever  cause  a  violation  of  a  national  or  state  standard.  The 
BAAQMD  thresholds  provide  the  definition  of  an  emission  that  "contributes  substantially  to 
an  existing  or  projected  air  quality  violation",  with  application  to  both  the  California  and 
National  Ambient  Air  Quality  Standards. 

Air  pollution  plays  a  well-documented  role  in  asthma  attacks,  however,  the  role  air  pollution 
plays  in  initiating  asthma  is  still  under  study  and  may  involve  a  very  complex  set  of 
interactions  between  indoor  and  outdoor  environmental  conditions  and  genetic  susceptibility. 
Studies  have  shown  that  children  who  participated  in  several  sports  and  lived  in  communities 
with  high  ozone  levels  were  more  likely  to  develop  asthma  than  the  same  active  children 
living  in  areas  with  less  ozone  pollution.  Other  studies  have  found  a  direct  association 
between  some  volatile  organic  compounds  and  symptoms  in  asthmatic  children.  A  large 
body  of  evidence  has  shown  significant  associations  between  measured  levels  of  particulate 
matter  outdoors  and  worsening  of  both  asthma  symptoms  and  acute  and  chronic  bronchitis. 


84.5  (daily  ROG  project  emission  increase  in  pounds)  *  9,940,000  (regional  ROG  emission  increase  in  pounds)  = 
0.000085.  67.1  (daily  NOx  project  emission  increase  in  pounds)  ^  1,21 1,000  (regional  NOx  emission  increase  in 
pounds)  =  0.0000554. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.272 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

While  these  general  relationships  are  known,  it  is  not  possible  to  perform  a  risk  assessment 
for  asthma.  It  is  possible  to  do  a  health  risk  assessment  for  diesel  exhaust  particulate  because 
specific  rates  of  risk  have  been  identified  for  the  specific  pollutant,  diesel  exhaust  particulate. 
This  means  that  statistical  studies  have  identified  a  quantified  risk  associated  with  a  given 
exposure. 

In  the  case  of  asthma,  no  quantified  relationship  between  exposure  and  health  effect  has  been 
established.  The  problem  is  exacerbated  by  the  multiple  pollutants  known  to  cause  or  worsen 
asthma.  Even  if  a  risk  factor  were  available  for  ozone  and  particulate  matter  (PMio  and 
PM2.5)  (the  pollutants  most  clearly  documented  as  causing  asthma),  it  would  not  be  possible 
to  estimate  a  project-caused  ozone  or  particulate  increment,  particularly  on  the  local  scale, 
since  both  pollutants  are  regional  pollutants  at  least  partially  (in  the  case  of  particulate 
matter)  or  entirely  (in  the  case  of  ozone)  created  in  the  atmosphere  by  photo-chemical 
reactions.  With  the  current  knowledge  of  the  cause-effect  relationship  between  pollutants 
and  asthma,  it  is  not  possible  to  conduct  a  quantified  risk  assessment  for  asthma  in  the  same 
manner  as  was  accomplished  for  diesel  exhaust  particulate. 

The  air  basin's  attainment  status  with  respect  to  ozone  and  other  pollutants  is  discussed  on 
pages  85  and  86  of  the  DEIR.  Currently,  the  state  and  federally  mandated  plans  do  not 
include  indirect  source  review  or  a  permit  system  that  would  require  individual  indirect 
sources,  such  as  the  proposed  project,  to  get  permits  from  any  local,  state,  or  federal  air 
quality  agency.  Authority  to  determine  the  acceptability  or  unacceptability  of  unmitigated 
impacts  to  air  quality  and  associated  impacts  to  health  under  CEQA  lies  with  local  decision- 
makers. Also  see  Response  to  Comment  #1 16  regarding  project  particulate  impacts. 

Comment  #121 

"Pages  86  and  87  [of  the  DEIR]:  The  Criteria  of  Significance  do  not  take  sensitive  receptors  into 
account.  Although  the  DEIR  mentions  (page  82)  that  a  child  care  center  is  about  1 00  yards  from  the 
project  site,  the  Criteria  of  Significance  do  not  recognize  the  sensitive  population.  The  vulnerability 
of  young  children,  particularly  to  diesel  exhaust  needs  to  be  factored  into  the  analysis  of  air  quality 
impacts."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair; 
and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.273 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

Response  #121 

The  definition  of  sensitive  receptors  and  identification  of  nearby  sensitive  receptors  was 
included  on  pages  8 1  and  82  of  the  DEIR.  The  Big  City  Montessori  School  located  at  240 
Industrial  Street  at  the  northeast  corner  of  Loomis  Street,  about  300  feet  south  of  the  project 
site  and  the  Bernal  Heights  residential  area  west  of  U.S.  Highway  101  (see  Figures  C&R.3 
and  C&R.4,  pages  C&R.22  and  C&R.23)  were  identified  as  sensitive  receptors.  The  analysis 
of  air  quality  impacts  examines  the  worst-case  conditions  of  local  pollutants  such  as  CO  and 
diesel  particulates.  Carbon  monoxide  concentrations  were  predicted  adjacent  to  the 
intersections  where  the  highest  concentration  would  be  expected  as  shown  in  Table  9  on  page 
91  in  the  DEIR.  Concentrations  at  the  identified  sensitive  receptors  would  be  less  than  at 
these  worst-case  intersection  locations.  Since  no  CO  violations  were  found  at  the  worst-case 
locations,  no  violations  would  be  forecast  at  the  identified  sensitive  receptors.  Thus, 
quantification  of  impacts  at  the  identified  sensitive  receptors  is  not  necessary. 

The  analysis  of  diesel  exhaust  risks  was  performed  along  Loomis  Street,  identified  as  a 
worst-case  location  for  diesel  particulates.  As  mentioned  previously,  the  Montessori  School 
is  a  sensitive  receptor  located  at  the  intersection  of  Loomis  and  Industrial  Streets.  The  risks 
were  calculated  at  the  location  of  highest  exposure,  on  the  east  side  of  Loomis  Street  opposite 
the  proposed  Home  Depot  loading  docks,  and  assumed  a  40-year  exposure,  which  is  beyond 
the  amount  of  exposure  that  would  occur  for  a  day  care  attendee  at  the  Montessori  School. 
Since  risks  at  this  worst-case  location  were  found  to  be  less  than  significant,  risks  at  the  more 
distant  Big  City  Montessori  School  and  Bernal  Heights  residential  area  would  also  be  less 
than  significant. 

For  non-diesel  mobile  source  TACs  and  for  regional  pollutants  such  as  particulate  matter  and 
ozone,  impacts  are  proportional  to  the  project's  contribution  to  the  regional  emissions  burden 
and  are  not  felt  locally.  In  this  case,  the  BAAQMD's  mass  emissions  thresholds  were 
utilized,  although  these  impacts  would  not  likely  affect  local  sensitive  receptors  due  to  the 
regional  nature  of  the  pollutants. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.274 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

Comment  #122 

"I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  Draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  (DEIR)  for  the  proposed  Home 
Depot  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard  (project).  I  am  a  resident  who  opposes  this  project,  because  it  will 
cause  substantial,  significant,  and  irreversible  harm  to  our  neighborhood.  My  response  to  the  DEIR 
and  my  objections  to  the  proposed  project  are  discussed  in  detail  below. 

"The  DEIR  totally  fails  to  consider  impacts  to  many  residents  of  Bernal  Heights.  The  DEIR  only 
specifically  considers  impacts  to  air  quality  on  four  intersections,  only  one  of  which  is  on  Cortland 
Avenue  (DEIR,  Table  9).  It  thus  totally  fails  to  consider  the  significant  negative  impacts  of  the 
additional  air  pollution  from  the  increased  traffic  upon  the  rest  of  Cortland  Avenue.  Those  impacts 
will  be  suffered  by  residents  who  live  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  Cortland  Avenue,  those  who  live 
on  side  streets  near  Cortland  Avenue,  and  those  who  come  to  the  retail  area  of  Cortland  Avenue  to 
shop. 

"The  project  will  significantly  increase  air  pollution  on  all  of  Cortland  Avenue.  The  DEIR  fails  to 
adequately  discuss  the  significant  environmental  effects  of  the  project  on  many  of  the  residents  of 
Bernal  Heights,  as  required  by  the  California  Environmental  Quality  Act  (CEQA).1  Because  the 
project  will  cause  a  large  increase  in  traffic  on  Cortland  Avenue  (DEIR  [on  pages]  5,  6  and  at  Table 
2),  the  project  will  have  the  substantial  negative  impact  of  increased  air  pollution  on  both  residents  in 
the  immediate  vicinity  of  Cortland  Avenue  and  on  those  residents  who  walk  or  drive  to  Cortland  to 
shop.  Yet,  the  DEIR  fails  to  consider  any  effects  of  air  pollution  on  Cortland  Avenue,  except  for  the 
east  end  of  Cortland  Avenue  at  Bayshore  Boulevard.  In  fact,  traffic  also  backs  up  substantially  on 
the  retail  portion  of  Cortland  Avenue  due  to  the  numerous  stop  signs  and  pedestrian  traffic.  This 
stop-and-go  driving  causes  much  more  air  pollution  than  the  one  stop  on  Bayshore.  CEQA  requires 
that  the  DEIR  address,  in  a  detailed  statement,  'all  significant  effects  on  the  environment  of  the 
proposed  project.'2  Merely  because  the  rest  of  Cortland  Avenue's  air  pollution  does  not  currently 
exceed  the  threshold  standard  set  by  the  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  does  not  mean 
that  the  increased  air  pollution  is  not  significant.  Significant  effects  are  those  that  cause  'adverse 
changes  in  physical  conditions  which  exist  within  the  area,'3  not  only  those  that  cause  a  level  of 
pollution  to  exceed  a  certain  threshold.  As  additional  air  pollution  will  certainly  cause  changes  in  the 
physical  conditions  along  Cortland  Avenue  and  those  changes  will  most  likely  be  substantial,  the 
DEIR  must  address  the  negative  effects  of  the  large  amount  of  additional  air  pollution  that  will  be 
caused  by  this  project  along  the  entirety  of  Cortland  Avenue,  which  it  fails  to  do. 

"The  DEIR  also  fails  to  consider  the  increased  air  pollution  that  will  be  caused  on  side  streets  near 
Cortland  Avenue  as  drivers  attempt  to  escape  the  traffic  jams  that  will  be  caused  by  the  significantly 
increased  traffic.  These  side  streets  currently  have  extremely  little  traffic,  so  any  increase  in  emitted 
air  pollution  from  the  current  level  of  almost  nothing  will  be  exponential,  and  thus  substantial  by 
definition  and  very  significant.  The  DEIR  completely  fails  to  address  the  adverse  significant  impacts 
of  added  air  pollution  to  the  side  streets  that  will  be  used  to  avoid  the  heavy  traffic  on  Cortland." 
(Jeff  Hoffman,  Resident) 

1  Public  Resources  Code  Section  21 100(b)(1). 

2  Ibid. 

3  Public  Resources  Code  Section  21 100(d). 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.275 


July  28,  2005 


vn.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 


Response  #122 

The  most  important  pollutant  on  the  local  scale  emitted  by  automobiles  is  CO  and  is 
discussed  above  in  the  previous  response.  Increases  of  CO  concentration  that  do  not  cause 
exceedance  of  the  ambient  standards  are  not  considered  significant.  The  ambient  air  quality 
standard  represents  a  level  below  which  no  health  effects  would  occur.  While  the  standards 
are  regularly  reviewed  by  state  and  federal  agencies  to  determine  if  new  information  on 
health  effects  were  to  warrant  a  change  in  the  standards,  no  such  review  is  currently  being 
undertaken  by  either  the  California  Air  Resources  Board  or  U.S.  Environmental  Protection 
Agency. 

The  BAAQMD  CEQA  Guidelines  used  by  San  Francisco  provide  the  following  significance 
threshold  for  CO:  "A  project  contributing  to  CO  concentrations  exceeding  the  State  Ambient 
Air  Quality  Standard  of  9  parts  per  million  (ppm)  averaged  over  8  hours  and  20  ppm  for  1 
hour  would  be  considered  to  have  a  significant  impact."  The  District's  thresholds  of 
significance  are  based  on  the  State  Office  of  Planning  and  Research  definitions  of  significant 
environmental  effect.53  Section  15382  of  the  State  CEQA  Guidelines  defines  "significant 
effect  on  the  environment"  as  "a  substantial  or  potentially  substantial,  adverse  change  in  any 
of  the  physical  conditions  with  the  area  affected  by  the  project  including...  air."  This 
language  is  reflective  of  Section  22100(d)  of  the  Public  Resources  Code:  "...any  significant 
effect  on  the  environment  shall  be  limited  to  substantial,  or  potentially  substantial,  adverse 
changes  in  physical  conditions  which  exist  within  the  area.... " 

The  BAAQMD  CEQA  Guidelines  require  analysis  of  CO  concentrations  at  worst-case 
locations.  For  an  indirect  source,  such  as  the  proposed  project,  the  maximum  impact  will 
occur  at  surface  street  intersections,  which  are  locations  where  traffic  volumes,  vehicle 
idling,  and  congestion  are  maximized.  The  Guidelines  direct  that  the  CO  modeling  be  carried 
out  for  the  intersections  with  the  worst  congestion  as  defined  by  Level  of  Service  (LOS). 
The  LOS  forecasts  for  all  intersections  studied  were  reviewed  and  those  intersections  meeting 
the  BAAQMD  criteria  for  modeling  (change  in  LOS  D  or  worse)  were  selected  for  study. 
These  intersections  are  intended  to  represent  the  location  of  highest  concentration  within  the 
community.  Based  on  LOS  and  delay  in  the  PM  peak  hour,  four  intersections  were  selected 


BAAQMD  CEQA  Guidelines,  page  11. 


2001.0062E  •  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.276 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 


for  analysis  based  on  "existing  plus  project"  traffic  (Bayshore  at  Oakdale,  Bayshore  at 
Cortland,  Bayshore  at  Industrial,  and  Bayshore  at  Jerrold/U.S.  101).  The  PM  peak  hour  was 
used  rather  than  Saturday  midday  peak  hours  because  the  weather  conditions  required  for 
peak  CO  concentrations  (cold  temperatures,  light  winds,  no  sunlight,  high  atmospheric 
stability)  do  not  occur  in  the  midday  hours.  Each  of  the  four  intersections  was  forecast  to 
operate  at  LOS  D  in  the  PM  peak  hour.  All  other  intersections  studied,  including  the 
intersections  of  Mission,  Andover,  and  Folsom  with  Cortland  Avenue,  would  operate  at  LOS 
C  or  better  under  "existing  plus  project"  conditions,  and  thus  do  not  meet  the  BAAQMD 
criterion  for  modeling. 

Concentrations  were  forecasted  for  existing,  existing  plus  project,  and  cumulative  traffic 
conditions.  The  modeling  method  produced  forecasts  of  maximum  1-hour  and  8-hour 
concentrations  during  worst-case  meteorological  conditions.  These  predicted  concentrations 
are,  according  to  the  Guidelines,  to  be  compared  to  the  state  and  federal  standards. 

Table  9  on  page  91  of  the  DEIR  showed  concentrations  below  the  ambient  air  quality 
standards  for  existing,  existing  plus  project,  and  cumulative  traffic  conditions.  Since  no 
violations  are  predicted  at  these  worst-case-scenario  intersections  where  a  violation  would  be 
most  likely,  it  follows  that  no  violations  are  predicted  at  other  locations,  including  areas  of 
and  side  streets  near  Cortland  Avenue  other  than  the  Bayshore/Cortland  intersection,  and 
neighboring  streets  within  Bernal  Heights. 

The  results  of  the  DEIR  analysis  are  consistent  with  the  current  attainment  status  of  CO  in  the 
Bay  Area  and  current  trends  of  CO  concentration.  The  Bay  Area  is  an  attainment  area  for 
this  pollutant.  Concentrations,  as  measured  at  monitoring  sites,  have  been  steadily  declining 
for  over  25  years  and  are  forecast  to  continue  declining  in  the  future  due  to  a  variety  of 
factors  such  as  stronger  emissions  controls  on  vehicles  (including  diesel),  increase  of  low 
pollutant  emission  vehicles,  and  reformulated  fuels.  There  have  been  no  measured  violations 
of  this  standard  anywhere  in  the  Bay  Area  since  1991,  even  in  the  South  Bay  where 
background  levels  of  CO  and  congestion  levels  are  maximal. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.277 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

Comment  #123 

"I  want  to  reflect  for  a  moment  on  what  we  know  about  air  pollution  now,  that  we  didn't  know  ten 
years  ago.  You  know,  air  pollution  is  worse  than  we  thought.  It  causes  a  lot  of  health  effects  today, 
at  levels  that  we  see  in  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  and  other  major  metropolitan  areas. 
And  it  is  something  you  really  need  to  think  about  when  we're  doing  planning.  I  think  that  planning 
in  a  community  perhaps  has  a  way  to  go  yet,  in  thinking  about  how  land  use  and  transportation 
relates  to  air  quality  and  the  health  significance  of  some  of  your  decisions.  So  I'm  going  to  frame 
these  comments  with  that. 

"I  think  that  air  pollution  is  very  important  on  behalf  of  the  community,  and  we  need  to  take  the 
analysis  very  seriously  for  a  project  like  this,  where  congestion  is  a  major  issue.  The  second  big 
point  I  wanted  to  make  is  that  vehicle  pollution  in  cities  now  is  one  of  the  most  important  sources  of 
air  pollution.  So  when  you  think  about  what  kind  of  pollution  levels  we're  seeing,  a  lot  of  it  comes 
from  vehicles.  So  how  we  manage  land,  transportation,  etc.,  to  a  large  extent  determines  what  we 
have  in  the  way  of  air  pollution,  and  then  related  health  effects.  So  all  these  things  go  together.  And 
I  think  it  is,  as  I  say,  very  important  to  analyze  them  in  a  serious  and  well-grounded  way.  Now  I 
don't  think  that  this  draft  environmental  impact  report  does  that.  And  I'm  speaking  to  you  as 
someone  who  has  some  expertise  in  this  area.  I'm  not  being  a  consultant  to  anyone,  but  I  do  have 
research  and  teaching  appointments  at  the  UC-Berkeley  School  of  Public  Health,  and  the  area  of 
environmental  health  sciences  is  my  area  of  expertise.  I  have  a  PhD  in  that  area,  and  I  have 
published  research  on  air  pollution  and  children's  health  and  so  on.  I'm  speaking  to  you  just  as  a 
resident  who  has  some  expertise  in  this  area. 

"But  what  this  DEIR  does  not  do  is  it  doesn't  look  at  the  current  knowledge  of  the  effects  of  air 
pollutants.  It  is  looking  at  the  older  standards  for  particulate  matter  and  so  on.  It  is  not  looking  at 
newer  standards  that  have  been  adopted  in  the  last  few  years  by  the  US  EPA  and  by  the  State,  that 
correspond  to  some  of  this  emerging  research  about  health  effects  of  particulate  matter  and  other 
pollutants.  So  the  analysis  is  very  severely  flawed,  and  I  believe  that  staff  needs  to  go  back  and  look 
at  the  current  standards  that  have  been  adopted,  that  are  closer  to  reflecting  what  we  know  about 
these  effects,  and  think  about  how  it  would  relate  to  this  project."  (Amy  D.  Kyle,  Ph.D.,  M.P.H., 
Resident,  oral  testimony) 

"I  am  a  resident  of  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood,  which  is  immediately  adjacent  to  the  project 
site.  I  have  research  and  teaching  appointments  at  the  School  of  Public  Health  at  the  University  of 
California,  Berkeley.  I  have  a  doctoral  degree  in  environmental  health  sciences  and  masters  of  public 
health.  My  areas  of  expertise  are  impacts  of  air  pollutants  and  transportation  policies  on 
communities  and  children's  environmental  health  and  I  have  published  research  on  these  (and  other) 
topics. 

"I  have  grave  concerns  about  the  Environmental  Impact  Report.  Specifically,  the  report  does  not 
fully  address  the  obviously  foreseeable  air  quality  impacts  of  the  proposed  project;  the  report  does 
not  address  the  congestion  impacts  of  the  neighborhoods  adjacent  to  the  site  of  the  proposed  project; 
and  the  report  does  not  address  the  health  impacts  of  increased  congestion  and  loss  of  a  pedestrian- 
oriented  focus  to  the  adjacent  neighborhoods. 

"The  huge  Home  Depot  project  will  have  significant  adverse  effects  on  the  quality  of  the  Bernal 
Heights  neighborhood  that  cannot  be  mitigated  by  the  largely  cosmetic  changes  being  suggested. 
This  can  be  anticipated  to  have  significant,  adverse  effects  on  the  health  of  the  community.  [These 
are  the  kinds  of  effects  that  the  Planning  Department  is  supposed  to  prevent.] 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.278 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

"The  Home  Depot  project  is  out  of  scale  to  the  community  in  which  it  would  be  located.  It  will  have 
unacceptable  air  quality  and  health  impacts.  It  will  severely  diminish  the  quality  of  life  and  the 
capacity  for  pedestrian  access  to  the  commercial  area  that  is  the  heart  of  the  Bernal  Heights 
community.  It  should  not  be  permitted  to  proceed. 

"The  report  does  not  address  the  significant  cumulative  risk  that  will  result  when  the  new  emissions 
of  hazardous  air  pollutants  are  added  to  the  already  significantly  elevated  concentrations  of 
hazardous  air  pollutants  found  in  San  Francisco.  The  DEIR  is  correct  that  these  pollutants  are  not 
monitored  as  extensively  as  the  criteria  pollutants  such  as  particulate  matter  or  ozone.  We  know  that 
health  risks  posed  by  hazardous  air  pollutants  are  significant  and  probably  exceed,  for  the  general 
population,  risks  posed  by  exposure  to  toxics  in  any  other  medium.  The  U.S.  EPA  first  analyzed  the 
health  risks  of  toxics  in  the  ambient  air  in  the  1990  Cumulative  Exposure  Project,  which  used  a 
computer  model  to  estimate  the  amount  of  about  140  hazardous  air  pollutants  in  each  census  tract  in 
the  U.S.  and  then  calculated  the  health  risks  that  would  result  from  this.  This  study  concluded  that 
virtually  everyone  in  the  U.S.  is  exposed  to  concentrations  of  hazardous  air  pollutants  of  health 
concern.1'2  The  U.S.  EPA  ran  another  assessment  of  the  hazardous  air  pollutants  nationally,  using 
emissions  data  for  1996.  This  National  Air  Toxics  Assessment  was  released  in  May  2002  and 
reported  similar  results.  The  estimates  for  San  Francisco  tend  to  be  higher  than  those  for  other  Bay 
Area  counties.  This  means  that  the  people  of  San  Francisco  are  already  at  risk  for  effects  of  exposure 
to  these  pollutants  and  that  increases  to  this  existing  exposure  need  to  be  avoided.  In  the  City  and 
County  of  San  Francisco,  the  average  cancer  risk  is  around  5  per  100,000.  This  means  that,  over  a 
lifetime,  about  5  people  per  100,000  would  be  expected  to  develop  cancer  because  of  exposure  to  this 
mix  of  pollutants.  However,  the  most  highly  exposed  people  have  a  substantially  higher  risk.  The 
95th  percentile  is  estimated  to  be  about  8  per  100,000.  Adding  to  this  already  elevated  risk  is  a 
significant  impact. 

"The  report  does  not  address  the  combined  impacts  of  the  freeways  coming  into  the  area  of  the 
project  site,  combined  with  increased  emissions  from  the  site.  It  is  well  established  that 
concentrations  of  pollutants  are  elevated  in  the  vicinity  of  freeways.  This  heightened  burden  of 
pollution  already  exists  in  the  project  area.  The  emissions  from  the  traffic  and  congestion  would  be 
added  to  this  already  elevated  level  of  pollution.  This  needs  to  be  addressed."  (Amy  D.  Kyle,  Ph.D., 
M.P.H.,  Resident,  written  comments) 

1  Woodruff,  T.J.,  et  al.  Public  health  implications  of  1990  air  toxics  concentrations  across  the  United  States. 
Environmental  Health  Perspectives,  1998.  106(5):  p.  245-251. 

2  ... 

Woodruff,  T.J.,  et  al.  Estimating  cancer  risk  from  outdoor  concentrations  of  hazardous  air  pollutants  in 
1990.  Environ  Research,  2000.  82(3):  p.  194-206. 


Response  #123 

The  specific  location  of  freeways  relative  to  the  project  does  not  affect  the  analysis  of 
regional  air  quality  impacts  (sum  of  all  emissions  from  all  trips  to  or  from  the  site),  since  the 
freeways  are  considered  part  of  the  total  regional  background  and  combined  regional  air 
quality  analysis.  Freeway  proximity  to  the  project  would  also  not  have  an  effect  on  the 
analysis  of  risk  from  diesel  exhaust,  which  examined  the  incremental  health  risks  from 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.279 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

project  truck  traffic  near  sensitive  receptors.  (See  Response  to  Comment  #116  for  additional 
information  on  risks  from  other  mobile  source  emissions.) 

The  CO  analysis  does  reflect  the  presence  of  freeways.  The  background  concentrations  used 
in  the  DEIR  analysis  are  based  on  a  BAAQMD  analysis  of  worst-case  1-hour  and  8-hour 
standards  that  reflect  the  presence  of  major  sources  such  as  freeways  (i.e.,  concentrations 
near  freeways  are  higher). 

See  Response  to  Comment  #115  regarding  current  standards  and  their  relationship  to  the 
standards  of  significance  used  in  the  DEIR. 

See  Responses  to  Comments  #115,  116,  and  120  regarding  health  risk  effects  and  potential 
cancer  risk  effects. 

See  Responses  to  Comments  #117  through  #122,  which  address  the  potential  effects  of  traffic 
congestion  on  air  quality  in  neighborhoods. 

See  Response  to  Comment  #116  which  provides  information  and  analysis  regarding  toxic  air 
pollutant  health  risks  from  the  proposed  project  and  cumulative  risks  from  hazardous  air 
pollutants. 

See  Response  to  Comment  #70  which  addresses  pedestrian  access  in  Bernal  Heights. 
See  Response  to  Comment  #24  regarding  social  and  economic  impacts. 
Comment  #124 

"The  traffic  volume  relied  on  in  the  air  quality  analysis  in  the  Draft  EIR  is  derived  from  the 
transportation  impact  analysis  therein.1  As  discussed  above,  the  Overland  Study  contains  an  analysis 
of  traffic  impacts  that,  in  our  opinion,  is  more  realistic.  Because  the  volume  of  vehicles  is  lower  in 
this  revised  estimate,  the  corresponding  air  quality  impacts  related  to  vehicle  emissions  would  also  be 
less  than  indicated  in  the  Draft  EIR,  as  shown  in  the  Baseline  Environmental  Consultants  analysis 
attached  to  this  letter  as  Exhibit  B.  [Refer  to  Appendix  E  of  this  document,  Anna  C.  Shimko  Letter 
dated  July  11,  2003.]  This  expert  analysis  demonstrates  that,  in  fact,  the  projected  regional  reactive 
organic  compound  (ROG)  impacts  would  be  below  the  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District's 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.280 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

significance  threshold  level  of  80  pounds  per  day.  This  means  that,  in  reality,  the  proposed  project 
would  not  cause  a  significant  impact  on  air  quality.  Thus,  the  project  would  not  result  in  any 
significant  environmental  impacts  that  could  not  be  mitigated."  (Anna  C.  Shimko,  Attorney  at  Law 
for  Home  Depot) 

1  Note  that  because  the  store  is  not  yet  open,  these  estimates  are  necessarily  approximations,  based  on 
information  from  other  comparable  Home  Depot  stores,  of  the  total  hours  worked  per  week  as  well  as  the 
potential  ratio  of  full-time  to  part-time  employees. 


Response  #124 

The  air  quality  impact  analysis  utilized  the  traffic  generation  information  presented  in  the 
Transportation  section  of  the  DEIR.  If  traffic  volumes  were  indeed  lower  than  the  DEIR 
analysis,  the  air  quality  impacts  would  be  less  than  depicted  in  the  DEIR. 


Comment  #125 

The  following  comments  are  grouped  together  because  they  express  concerns  about  the  potential 
effects  of  the  proposed  project  related  to  air  quality,  however,  they  are  not  specific  to  the  adequacy 
of  the  DEIR  and  the  air  quality  analyses. 

"My  wife  and  daughter  suffer  from  asthma.  This  will  be  exacerbated  by  increased  traffic  and 
pollution  in  this  area.  Please  vote  no  on  home  depot."  (Scott  Barlow,  Resident) 

"I  think  that  it  will  have  an  effect  of  adding  pollution,  because  there  will  be  cars  idling,  as  they  wait 
to  pull  into  the  lot."  (Amy  Beinart,  Resident) 

"I  believe  this  will  have  a  negative  impact  on  the  environment  of  San  Francisco.  The  air  pollution 
would  be  horrendous  from  the  traffic  and  big  trucks."  (Sharon  Carew,  Resident) 

"[We  are  concerned  about]  increased  air  pollution  from  greatly  increased  traffic  (and  idling  cars  as 
they  want  to  pull  in)."  (Melissa  M.  Diagana,  Resident) 

"The  stated  environmental  impacts  are  unacceptable.  I  point  to  the  significant  adverse  effect  on 
regional  air  quality."  (Shannon  Dodge,  Resident) 

"Significant  impact  on  regional  air  quality:  This  is  air  that  rises  from  Bayshore,  blows  over  my  fine 
neighborhood,  but  ends  up  in  Oakland;  Fremont  -  should  we  advocate  that  sort  of  project?  We 
should  be  given  the  opportunity  to  evaluate  the  proposed  development  based  on  accurate  data.  It 
would  be  irresponsible  of  us  to  accept  the  document  as  written,  in  my  opinion.  For  those  of  you  with 
the  power  to  reject  the  findings  that  came  within  the  documentation,  I  ask  that  you  do  so, 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.281 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

respectfully."  (Daniel  Dodt,  Bayview  Resident,  Chair  of  the  BVHP-PAC  Economic  Development 
Committee,  Member  of  the  Bayview  Merchants  Association  and  Revere  Avenue  Residents 
Association) 

"We  are  concerned  about  air  quality  as  well,  as  is  BAAQMD.  All  those  cars  visiting  this  store  will 
create  a  serious  increase  in  pollution  harmful...  especially  to  children,  the  elderly  and  persons  with 
lung  problems."  (Ellen  M.  Frank  and  Joseph  Majer,  Residents) 

"We  are  confident  that  you  will  not  approve  any  plan  that  would,  'exceed  the  Bay  Area  Air  Quality 
Management  District  established  threshold  of  significance  of  80  pounds  per  day  for  emissions  of 
reactive  organic  gases  (ROG)  and  would  be  considered  to  have  a  significant  adverse  environmental 
effect  on  air  quality."1  (Michael  Grafton  and  David  Ayoob,  Co-Presidents,  Cortland  Merchants 
Association) 

1  DEIR,  3/29/03,  page  91. 


"Home  Depot  is  not  the  type  of  development  the  Bernal  and  Bayview  communities  will  derive 
adequate  benefit  from,  given  the  severe  environmental  impacts  generated.  These  impacts  include  an 
increase  in  vehicular  traffic  and  pollution  at  a  level  far  above  more  sustainable  development  such  as 
housing,  small  business,  and  light  manufacturing  or  services."  (Jonathan  Gray,  Resident) 

"The  proposed  Home  Depot  is  153,000  square  feet  and,  at  that  size,  exceeds  the  air  pollution 
standards.  Additionally,  if  Home  Depot  is  a  lynchpin  of  a  Bayshore  redevelopment  plan,  then  other 
stores  will  be  contributing  to  an  ever  greater  air  pollution  level.  Yet,  they  are  not  being  taken  into 
account.  The  proposed  Home  Depot  could  be  reduced  to  100,000  square  feet  and  still  be 
economically  viable  and  fall  under  the  air  pollution  levels.  Therefore,  why  would  you  or  anyone 
support  an  oversized  Home  Depot  (183k)  which  severely  degrades  air  quality  when  a  viable 
alternative  is  available?  I  urge  a  support  of  a  smaller  Home  Depot  or  none  at  all."  (Sophia  Green, 
Resident) 

"This  project  does  not  meet  air  quality  standards.  It  should  be  rejected  on  that  point  alone.  This  is 
the  21st  century;  when  are  we  going  to  stop  approving  unsustainable  car-dependent  urban  planning 
and  begin  focusing  on  transit-friendly  urban  development  instead.  This  corner  is  very  well  served  by 
a  number  of  different  bus  lines."  (Nic  Griffin,  Resident) 

"I  do  not  believe  the  draft  EIR  properly  evaluated  the  effects  of  air  pollution  in  a  residential  and  very 
small  business  district  along  Cortland  Avenue."  (Jeff  Hoffman,  Resident). 

"You  are  going  to  have  an  increase  in  air  pollution  beyond  what  has  been  specified  here  in  the  draft." 
(Douglas  Holloway,  Resident) 

"There  will  be  increased  air  and  noise  pollution.  We  don't  need  more,  we  need  less.  Idling  cars  on 
Cortland  and  impatient  drivers  are  a  bad  combination.  We  already  have  a  huge  problem  of  double- 
parked  cars  on  Cortland;  imagine  the  backed-up  traffic  and  all  those  cars  honking."  (Alyson  Jacks, 
Resident) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.282 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

"There  is  a  lot  of  air  pollution  already  down  there.  I'm  not  there  in  my  car  breathing  filtered  air 
through  my  heater  or  my  air  conditioner.  I  smell  the  diesel  that's  already  down  there  from  the  big 
trucks.  If  they  are  going  to  be  idling  on  Bayshore  while  I'm  cycling,  it  is  going  to  hurt  my  lungs.  By 
2015  they  are  talking  about  on  ramps  are  going  to  be  packed."  (Rachel  Kesel,  Resident) 

"I  am  also  very  concerned  about  the  pollution  coming  from  increased  automobile  traffic.  We  have 
children  and  pets  to  safeguard."  (Lynnly  Labovitz,  Resident) 

"Bernal  Heights  is  surrounded  on  two  sides  by  freeways  (101  and  280).  Adding  the  additional  traffic 
would  increase  traffic  noise  and  pollution.  This  is  of  particular  concern  to  parents  that  raise  small 
children."  (Michael  D.,  Linda,  Catriana,  Hanh,  and  Michael  L.  Larson,  Residents) 

"Air  quality  will  be  degraded  even  more  in  an  area  of  the  city  that  already  suffers  from  too  much 
cases  of  asthma,  especially  among  children.  Bringing  in  additional  cars  and  trucks  from  all 
directions  of  the  city  and  peninsula  will  create  a  greater  and  unacceptable  environmental  degradation 
of  the  whole  area,  both  in  terms  of  traffic  congestion  and  air  quality  degradation."  (Rosanne  Liggett, 
Resident) 

"I  have  talked  to  other  neighbors,  who  are  moms  and  dads,  and  they  are  especially  concerned  about 
pollution  issues.  I  think  it  is  clear  that  the  EIR  -  existing  government  standards  for  regional 
emissions  for  ozone  -  are  unacceptable,  and  there  is  no  way  to  ameliorate  this.  Now  I  have  lost  - 
and  I  don't  know  how  much  you  have  lost  to  cancer.  I  lost  a  niece  at  29;  a  one-year  old  child  to  skin 
cancer.  This  is  the  fastest-growing  cancer  in  the  United  States  in  our  populace.  I  think  this  really 
needs  to  be  addressed.  In  addition,  teachers  and  parents  are  concerned  about  emphysema  and 
respiratory  issues."  (Mark  Lynch,  Resident) 

"The  other  thing  is  on  Cortland,  the  pollution:  As  far  as  the  EIR  report,  I  can  tell  you  right  now  it  is 
so  dirty  my  windows  I  have  to  clean  them  like  every  four  days  to  keep  them  clean;  they  are  very 
grimy.  I  would  just  be  really  unhappy  just  to  think  about  the  amount  of  traffic  this  will  bring.  Again, 
just  being  a  citizen  of  San  Francisco  and  a  resident  of  Bernal  Heights,  I  just  want  to  speak  out  and 
say  that  I'm  really  against  this,  because  it  would  be  affect  my  living  environment  in  a  negative  way." 
(Katherine  Massey,  Resident) 

"We  have  two  children  (2  yrs  and  6  yrs)  and  are  proud  to  be  Bernal  Heights  homeowners.  The  air 
quality  is  our  top  priority  for  all  children,  adults,  etc.  We  walk  around  the  neighborhood  and  enjoy 
the  'quiet'  feel."  (Nina  Mayer,  Resident) 

"The  air  quality  in  these  areas  is  already  in  bad  shape."  (Bill  Nieto,  Resident) 
"It  will  have  an  adverse  effect  on  regional  air  quality."  (Chava  Nieto,  Resident) 
"The  air  quality  will  worsen."  (Jo  Ann  Ogden,  Resident) 
"Air  pollution."  (Barbara  Paley,  Resident) 

"[W]ith  respect  to  air  quality,  this  is  like  a  Nimby  issue,  as  I  like  to  show  where  the  X  is  here,  where 
my  home  is.  As  you  know,  when  you  have  smog,  you  have  haze;  when  you  have  haze,  you  can't  see 
anything.  So  when  you  are  talking  about  the  antiglare  problem  from  their  roof,  in  addition  to  the 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.283 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

smog  that's  created,  those  of  us  who  currently  have  views  of  the  East  Bay  are  going  to  have  views  of 
white. 

"[W]ith  respect  to  fumes  and  air  quality,  I  can  already  smell  Sunset  Scavenger  when  they  bring  their 
trash  down  by  Bayshore  and  CalTrain.  How  much  more  gas  exhaust,  etc.  am  I  going  to  smell  from 
my  house  at  this  current  time  with  a  Home  Depot  there?  "  (Gil  Payne,  Resident) 

"I  walk  on  Cortland  Street  to  use  the  markets  there.  When  there  are  traffic  backups  these  days  -  due 
to  trucks  unloading  or  increased  auto  use  -  I  can  feel  the  difference  in  the  air  pollution  affecting  my 
breathing.  If  Home  Depot  moves  to  Bayshore,  there  will  be  much,  much  greater  traffic  backups  and 
many  more  idling  cars.  I  know  this  will  further  compromise  my  respiratory  system.  Increased 
traffic,  backups,  and  idling  cars  are  inevitable  on  a  small  two-lane  street  like  Cortland.  If  my  body  - 
a  relatively  healthy  male  -  will  be  adversely  affected,  I  can  imagine  the  danger  it  will  do  to  children 
(who  use  the  library  and  playground  on  Cortland)  and  seniors  who  use  the  Neighborhood  Center.  I 
fear  the  health  risks  to  me  and  my  neighbors."  (Peter  Rothblatt,  Resident) 

"Already,  I  choose  alternate  walking  routes  because  the  air  pollution  on  Cortland  is  irritating  to  my 
lungs.  More  traffic  on  Cortland,  Mission,  and  Bayshore  would  be  intolerable.  I  firmly  oppose  a 
Home  Depot  on  Bayshore  Boulevard."  (Katherine  Truka,  Resident) 

"I  do  not  support  turning  Bayshore  into  a  Big  Box  Alley  and  especially  there,  at  the  foot  of  Cortland, 
which  has  already  failed  air  quality  tests  [in]  the  Environmental  Impact  Report."  (Jennifer  Ware, 
Resident) 

"I  am  afraid  that  the  air  quality  will  be  affected  to  the  point  where  neighbors  will  feel  health  impacts. 
The  EIR  has  admitted  that  this  will  probably  be  the  case."  (Marci  Yellin,  Resident) 

"I  am  concerned  about  the  air  quality  ...  on  Cortland,  Mission,  and  Bayshore."  (Paula  Young, 
Resident) 

Response  #125 

The  air  quality  impacts  of  the  proposed  project  are  addressed  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  81  to  93. 
The  applicable  regulations  were  identified,  the  types  of  air  quality  pollutants  were  explained, 
the  existing  air  quality  conditions  were  discussed,  the  significance  criteria  for  air  quality 
analysis  were  addressed  and  the  impacts  of  the  proposed  project  were  identified  for  both  the 
construction  and  the  operation  of  the  project.  Sensitive  receptors  were  discussed  on  pages  81 
and  82  in  the  DEIR.  The  previous  responses  incorporated  and/or  identified  the  latest  data 
available  that  was  not  originally  in  the  DEIR.  This  new  information  included  health  risk  data 
from  TACs  in  the  Bay  Area  (Response  to  Comment  #116),  updated  air  quality  data 
(Response  to  Comment  #115),  and  recent  revisions  to  the  state  and  ambient  air  quality 
standards  (Response  to  Comment  #115). 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.284 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

The  air  quality  analysis  noted  that  the  estimated  CO  concentrations  with  project-generated 
traffic  would  be  below  the  applicable  state/federal  standards  (20  parts  per  million  [ppm]  for 
the  1  -hour  standard  and  9  ppm  for  the  8-hour  standard),  and  would  be  a  less-than-significant 
impact.  The  proposed  project  would  exceed  the  BAAQMD  established  threshold  of 
significance  of  80  pounds  per  day  for  emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases  (ROG)  and  would 
be  considered  to  have  a  significant  adverse  environmental  effect  on  air  quality.  This 
significant  impact  would  occur  regionally  within  the  multi-county  air  basin  and  would  not  be 
reflective  of  local  conditions  in  San  Francisco  (i.e.,  the  effects  would  be  felt  over  the  entire 
air  basin  rather  than  the  project  neighborhood). 

The  issue  of  odors  was  discussed  on  page  A- 16,  Appendix  A  of  the  DEIR,  which  noted  that 
the  proposed  project  would  be  a  retail  home  improvement  and  supply  store,  and  would  not 
contain  products  or  generate  uses  that  would  permeate  its  vicinity  with  objectionable  odors. 
Generally,  vehicle-generated  exhaust  odors  relate  to  concentration  of  diesel  exhaust,  which 
was  addressed  in  Responses  to  Comments  #116  and  #121. 

The  DEIR  was  prepared  in  accordance  with  CEQA  Section  15126.2,  Consideration  and 
Discussion  of  Significant  Environmental  Impacts,  and  identified  and  focused  on  the 
significant  environmental  effects  of  the  proposed  project,  including  those  impacts  that  can  be 
mitigated  but  not  reduced  to  a  level  of  insignificance.  Since  the  proposed  project  would 
exceed  the  BAAQMD  thresholds  of  significance  for  ROG,  the  project  would  have  a 
significant  project-level  and  cumulative  impact  on  regional  air  quality.  This  is  a  non- 
mitigable  impact  and  is  identified  on  page  113  in  the  DEIR.  The  DEIR  also  included 
alternatives  to  reduce  the  air  quality  impacts  to  less-than-significant  levels.  The  project 
impacts  related  to  health  effects  were  assessed  by  forecasting  with  a  computer  program  the 
worst-case  levels  of  CO  (a  criteria  pollutant)  at  intersections  with  the  worst  LOS,  and 
evaluating  with  a  computer  program  diesel  particulates  (comprised  of  PM2.5  and  the  TAC  that 
is  the  single  most  important  pollutant  in  determining  TAC  health  risks  in  the  Bay  Area). 
Worst-case  CO  concentrations  and  TAC  risk  levels  were  found  to  be  below  the  BAAQMD 
thresholds  of  significance  and  would  be  less-than-significant. 

The  Planning  Commission  would  review  the  EIR  for  adequacy  and  would  decide  to  approve, 
modify,  or  deny  the  project.    If  the  project  were  approved  as  proposed,  the  Planning 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.285 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

AIR  QUALITY 

Commission  would  be  required  to  adopt  a  Statement  of  Overriding  Considerations  for  the 
significant  air  quality  impacts. 


Comment  #126 

"So  it  is  not  inconsistent  that  a  big  corporate  entity  comes  into  the  city,  and  the  presumption  is  that  it 
is  going  to  have  an  impact  on  small  businesses.  If  you  give  the  nature  of  the  fact  that  we  have  so 
much  outflow  from  here,  in  terms  of  traffic  to  South  San  Francisco  to  Colma  right  now  for  some  of 
the  shopping  facilities,  we  could  very  well  make  the  opposite  argument  that  having  Home  Depot 
where  it  is  at  will  in  fact  reduce  traffic  in  terms  of  its  pollution  impact;  in  terms  of  the  environment." 
(Joe  O'Donoghue,  Resident) 

"And  maybe  it  is  a  little  more  pollution,  but  you  know  what?  There's  a  freeway,  101,  right  between 
that  and  Bernal  Heights,  or  any  other  residential  neighborhood.  So  you  can't  possibly  think  it  would 
change  much  of  that."  (Steve  St.  Denny,  Business  Owner) 

Response  #126 

The  comments  are  noted  and  no  further  response  is  required. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.286 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

NOISE 


NOISE 

Comment  #127 

"I  do  not  believe  the  draft  EIR  properly  evaluated  the  effects  of  noise  in  a  residential  and  very  small 
business  district  along  Cortland  Avenue."  (Jeff  Hoffman,  Resident,  oral  testimony) 

"Likewise,  the  negative  impacts  of  additional  noise  -  which  the  DEIR  failed  to  consider  -  in  a 
residential  neighborhood  or  a  retail  area  to  which  most  of  us  walk  cannot  be  mitigated. 

"The  DEIR  also  does  not  consider  the  significant  negative  impact  upon  those  people  of  the  additional 
noise  from  the  increased  traffic... 

"The  project  will  increase  noise  along  and  near  Cortland  Avenue.  All  physical  conditions,  including 
noise,  that  exist  within  an  area  affected  by  the  project  must  be  addressed  by  the  DEIR.1  Increased 
noise  is  a  change  in  the  existing  physical  conditions  of  the  affected  area,  so  that  this  increased  noise 
is  significant.  However,  the  DEIR  fails  to  address  the  significant  negative  effects  of  the  increased 
noise  on  and  near  Cortland  Avenue  that  will  be  caused  by  the  large  increase  in  traffic  from  the 
project.  This  increased  noise  will  be  substantial  because  Cortland  is  only  a  two-lane  street.  Not  only 
will  increased  noise  occur  along  all  of  Cortland  Avenue,  but  on  the  above-mentioned  side  streets  near 
Cortland  that  drivers  will  be  using  in  order  to  escape  the  larger  traffic  jams  that  the  project  will  cause. 
The  increase  in  noise  on  the  side  streets  will  be  even  more  substantial  than  that  on  Cortland,  because 
those  streets  currently  have  very  little  traffic,  so  that  any  amount  of  additional  traffic  is  a  very  large 
increase  in  the  noise,  is  substantial,  and  thus  must  be  addressed."  (Jeff  Hoffman,  Resident,  written 
comments) 


Public  Resources  Code  Section  21060.5. 


Response  #127 

The  potential  noise  effects  of  the  project  were  addressed  in  the  Initial  Study,  Appendix  A  of 
the  DEIR,  on  pages  A- 14  to  A- 15.  Although  noise  levels  were  not  measured  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  the  average  traffic-generated  noise  level  in  an  urban  setting  is  generally  mid-60s 
dBA.  4  The  discussion  in  the  DEIR  addresses  project  operational  noise,  noise  during  the 
construction,  and  noise  related  to  the  increase  in  traffic.  The  DEIR  notes  that  ambient  noise 
levels  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  are  typical  of  noise  levels  in  industrial  neighborhoods  in 
San  Francisco,  which  are  dominated  by  vehicular  traffic,  including  trucks,  cars,  Muni  buses, 
emergency  vehicles,  new  construction  in  the  area,  and  industrial  activities.    The  DEIR 


dBA  is  a  measure  of  sound  units  in  decibels  (dB).  The  "A"  denotes  the  A- weighted  scale  which  simulates  the 
response  of  the  human  ear  to  various  frequencies  of  sound. 


July  28, 2005 

200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.287 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 
noise 

acknowledges  that  the  project  would  generate  noise  from  vehicles  arriving  and  departing 
from  the  parking  structure  and  trucks  making  deliveries  to  the  project  site. 

Generally,  traffic  must  double  in  volume  to  produce  a  noticeable  increase  in  noise  levels.55 
Table  6  on  page  80  of  the  DEIR  indicates  that  project-generated  traffic  would  range  from  1.1 
percent  (from  1,452  vehicles  to  1,670  vehicles  at  the  U.S.  101  northbound  on-ramp  at 
Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar  Chavez  Street)  to  27.6  percent  (from  2,308  vehicles  to  3,664 
vehicles  at  the  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cortland  Avenue  intersection)  of  the  total  traffic  volumes 
in  the  area  during  both  the  Weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  conditions,  which 
represent  the  greatest  amount  of  traffic  contributions  to  new  noise  sources.  Thus,  the  project 
would  not  cause  a  doubling  in  traffic  volumes  in  the  project  area,  and  therefore  would  not 
cause  a  noticeable  increase  in  the  ambient  noise  level  in  the  project  vicinity.  Therefore, 
traffic  noise  would  not  be  considered  a  potentially  significant  impact. 

Noise  originating  during  project  operation  after  6:00  p.m.  or  before  8:00  a.m.  would  not  be 
significant.  Even  if  the  project  were  to  be  open  on  a  24-hour  basis  and  some  deliveries  were 
to  occur  at  night,  nighttime  customers  and  deliveries  would  generate  even  less  traffic,  and 
therefore  less  traffic  noise.  Nighttime  ambient  noise  levels  are  lower  than  daytime,  however, 
project-generated  noise  impacts  from  traffic  and  loading  would  be  less-than-significant. 


Downtown  Plan  EIR,  Vol.  1,  Section  IV. E  generally  and  pp.  IV.J.8-18.  Increases  of  one  dBA  or  less  in 
environmental  noise  are  not  noticeable  by  most  people  outside  a  laboratory  situation  (National  Academy  of  Sciences, 
Highway  Research  Board,  Research  Report.  117  (1971).  Also  FHWA  Highway  Traffic  Noise  Prediction  Model, 
Report  UFHWA-RD-77-108,  December  1978,  p.  8,  regarding  doubling  of  traffic  volumes  producing  increases  of  3 
dBA  or  more,  which  are  noticed  by  most  people.) 


July  28, 2005 

200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.288 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

HAZARDS  AND  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 


HAZARDS  AND  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 


Comment  #128 

"Page  96  [of  the  DEIR]:  The  standard  for  lead  hazard  is  750  ppm,  not  1,000  ppm.1"  (Eve  Bach,  Arc 
Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal 
Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  U.S.  EPA  2002  Preliminary  Remediation  Goals. 
Response  #128 

The  commenters  are  correct.  The  present  standard  for  lead  hazard  is  750  parts  per  million 
(ppm). 

This  revision  does  not  change  the  conclusion  in  the  DEIR  that  there  would  be  no  potential 
significant  hazardous  material  impacts  associated  with  the  proposed  project. 

The  DEIR  indicates  that  the  Phase  II  investigations  revealed  elevated  levels  of  lead  in  the 
soil.  Of  96  samples  taken,  three  were  above  750  ppm  (770  ppm,  781  ppm,  and  4,820  ppm). 
The  mitigation  measures  listed  on  pages  107  through  109  in  the  Draft  EIR  would  ensure  that 
the  hazardous  levels  of  lead  would  be  removed  from  the  site  and  treated  in  accordance  with 
regulatory  guidelines. 

The  DEIR  is  revised  to  reflect  the  new  lead  threshold  standard  as  follows: 


On  page  96,  second  full  paragraph,  second  sentence,  is  revised  to  read:  "The  DPH 
Environmental  Health-Hazardous  Waste  Unit  (EHS-HWU)  considers  soils  with  a 
total  lead  concentration  of  over  1,000  750  parts  per  million  (ppm)  to  be  potentially 
hazardous." 

On  page  99,  second  line  from  the  top  of  the  page,  is  revised  to  read:  "The  California 
Code  of  Regulations,  Title  22,  considers  soil  with  lead  to  be  hazardous  waste  if  it 
exceeds  a  total  concentration  of  1,000  750  parts  per  million  (ppm)  and  a  soluble 


July  28, 2005 

2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.289 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

HAZARDS  AND  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 

concentration  of  5  ppm.  The  Phase  II  investigation  revealed  elevated  levels  of  lead, 
however,  only  one  three  of  the  45  samples  exceeded  the  threshold  concentration." 


July  28, 2005 

2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.290 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

SOILS  AND  SEISMICITY 


SOILS  AND  SEISMICITY 

Comment  #129 

"The  Draft  EIR  states  that  the  subsurface  conditions  at  the  project  site  are  underlain  by  about  9  to  22 
feet  of  uncompacted  and  undocumented  artificial  fills  over  Bay  Mud  deposits,  combined  with 
groundwater  levels  from  9  to  14  feet  below  the  surface.1  Since  the  project  intends  to  store  inventory 
in  warehouse  style  fully  accessible  by  the  public,  the  EIR  must  study  the  impacts  of  seismic  events 
on  the  style  of  storage  racks  used  by  Home  Depot. 

"The  public  safety  issues  of  merchandise  spillage  from  Home  Depot  racks  during  seismic  events 
required  by  an  independent  seismic  consultant  and  their  recommendations  need  to  be  included  in  the 
EIR.2  Falling  merchandise  has  been  recognized  as  a  significant  safety  hazard  at  Home  Depot,3  and 
this  is  especially  critical  for  storage  of  toxic  materials  identified  by  the  State  of  California  in  Home 
Depot  inventory,  as  the  project  is  sited  on  soil  vulnerable  to  seismic  disruption."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc 
Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal 
Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  DEIR,  pages  95-96. 

The  California  Seismic  Safety  Commission  conducted  a  2001  study  on  general  warehouse-style 
merchandise  racks,  but  their  conclusion  was  that  more  specific  studies  need  to  be  conducted. 
3  "Falling  Doors  Kill  Boy  at  Home  Depot,"  http://atlanta.bizjournals.com/atlanta/2003/05/19/storyl.html; 
also  http://www.fallingmerchandise.com/lawsuits.asp;  "Eight  lawsuits  for  falling  merchandise  against 
Home  Depot  since  January  2000"  (Kings  County,  WA), 
http://www.kirotv.com/consumer/2217901/detail.html. 


"Page  26  [of  the  DEIR:]  Please  explain  seismic  safety  of  tilt-up  concrete  walls  with  a  concrete  slab 
floor  on  seismically  unstable  fill.  Particularly  with  heavy  merchandise  that  is  stacked  high  above  the 
floor  on  shelves.  Home  Depot  has  had  merchandise  toppling  on  staff  and  customers  when  there  was 
no  earthquake.  Please  detail  how,  when  those  accidents  occurred.  How  do  the  risks  increase  on  this 
fill  site  on  unstable  land?"  (Sue  C  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

"The  other  thing  I  would  like  to  say  is  I  think  the  issue  of  earthquake  safety  and  seismic  safety  has 
not  been  adequately  addressed  in  the  DEIR.  Some  of  the  big-box  stores  have  been  known  to 
inadequately  have  their  things  stored  on  shelves,  and  people  have  been  injured  in  stores  from  things 
falling  off  of  these  shelves.  And  I  don't  think  that  the  earthquake  safety  has  been  adequately 
addressed  in  San  Francisco  for  these  kind  of  shelves,  and  storage  of  things  up  high.  People  have 
been  known  to  be  injured."  (Rosanne  Liggett,  Resident) 

Response  #129 

The  geology  of  the  project  site  is  addressed  in  the  Initial  Study,  Appendix  A  of  the  DEIR,  on 
pages  A- 18  and  A- 19.  The  project  site  is  in  area  of  potential  seismic  activity  (as  is  most  of 
San  Francisco  and  the  Bay  area).   A  geotechnical  investigation  (referenced  in  the  Initial 


July  28, 2005 

200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.291 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

SOILS  AND  SEISMICITY 

Study)  was  prepared  for  the  project  site  by  Geotechnical  Professionals,  Inc.56  The  report 
noted  that  the  project  site  would  be  suitable  for  development  providing  that  the 
recommendations  included  in  the  report  were  incorporated  into  the  design  and  construction  of 
the  proposed  development.  These  recommendations  indicated  that  the  proposed  Home  Depot 
building  and  parking  garage  should  be  supported  on  precast,  prestressed,  concrete  piles  and 
structures.  Since  the  building  would  be  pile  supported,  the  report  noted  that  further 
mitigation  to  resist  liquefaction  of  the  materials  (in  the  event  of  an  earthquake)  below  the 
project's  foundation  would  not  be  needed.  The  depth  of  the  piles  is  expected  to  vary  from  30 
to  1 1 5  feet  below  ground  surface.  The  depth  to  the  top  of  the  dense  soilfaedrock  would 
determine  actual  depths.  The  DEIR  indicated  in  Appendix  A  on  page  A- 18  that  the  seven 
feet  of  fill  required  to  raise  the  grades  along  the  eastern  portion  of  the  site  would  experience 
about  14  inches  of  settlement  over  thirty  years.  Access  to  the  store  on  the  east  side  would 
require  a  transition  or  hinged  slab  to  allow  for  the  anticipated  long-term  settlement. 

The  Initial  Study  in  the  DEIR  also  noted  that  potential  damage  to  structures  from  geologic 
hazards  on  a  project  site  would  be  mitigated  through  the  Department  of  Building  Inspection 
(DBI)  review  of  the  building  permit  application  pursuant  to  DBI  implementation  of  the  San 
Francisco  Building  Code. 

Home  Depot  would  require  merchandise  storage  racks  to  be  no  higher  than  12  feet  with 
chainlink-type  fencing  placed  on  top  of  each  rack  to  prevent  items  from  falling.  Individual 
items  would  not  be  stored  on  the  top  racks,  rather  they  would  be  removed  from  the  shipping 
wrapping  and  placed  on  lower  shelves  for  customers  to  purchase.  All  storage  racks  would  be 
bolted  to  the  floors.  Thus,  during  review  of  the  project  design,  DBI  would  ensure  that 
seismic  requirements  are  met  and  that  Home  Depot  would  implement  measures  to  maximize 
customer  safety  during  a  seismic  event.  In  addition,  approval  conditions  from  the  Planning 
Commission  as  part  of  its  Discretionary  Review  process  could  contain  measures  to  ensure 
seismic  safety  for  customers  and  employees. 


Geotechnical  Professionals,  Inc.  [GPI],  Revised  Geotechnical  Investigation,  Proposed  Home  Depot,  Bayshore 
Boulevard  and  Waterloo,  San  Francisco,  California,  October  18,  2001.  This  report  is  available  for  public  review  by 
appointment  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street,  Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco,  as  part  of 
Case  File  200 1.0062E. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.292 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

SOILS  AND  SEISM1CITY 

Comment  #130 

"Soil  results  are  not  adequately  addressed.  The  Initial  Study  indicated  that  quarterly  monitoring 
indicated  first  three  quarters  were  negative,  but  the  fourth  and  final  monitoring  result  was  not 
addressed.  What  is  the  impact  of  soil  contaminants  identified  in  the  soil  samples  if  they  are  disturbed 
during  excavation  of  8,500  cubic  feet  of  soil  for  the  piles?  Further  discussion  of  hazardous  materials 
mitigation  is  needed.  Depth  for  a  suitable  bearing  layer  for  the  piles  should  vary  from  30  to  115  feet 
below  grade;  what  is  the  soil  quality  at  this  depth?  What  is  the  potential  exposure  to  contaminated 
soils?"  (Shelley  Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President) 

Response  #130 

Subsequent  to  the  publication  of  the  Initial  Study,  additional  information  regarding  the 
underground  storage  tanks  and  groundwater  contamination  was  obtained  and  is  included  in 
the  DEIR  on  page  97.  The  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health  Local  Oversight 
Program  (DPH-LOP)  indicated  that  the  groundwater  monitoring  results  for  a  one-year  period 
were  negative  (i.e.  there  were  no  elevated  concentrations  of  contaminants).  A  Remedial 
Action  Completion  Certification  was  issued  by  the  DPH-LOP  on  January  23,  2002. 57  Once  a 
Completion  Certification  is  issued,  no  further  action  related  to  the  underground  petroleum 
releases  at  the  site  is  required  by  the  Department  of  Public  Health. 


The  geotechnical  report,  cited  in  the  DEIR  on  page  A- 18,  reported  the  results  of  borings  to 
depths  of  1 1 1  feet  below  the  existing  surface  of  the  site.  No  samples  were  taken  for  the 
presence  of  hazardous  materials.  The  usual  practice  for  analyzing  the  potential  presence  of 
hazardous  materials  for  projects  that  are  to  be  constructed  at  grade  is  to  select  shallow 
borings  on  the  assumption  that  any  potential  contamination  would  generally  occur  from  the 
surface  and  penetrate  downward.  It  is  unlikely  that  there  would  be  contaminated  materials  at 
30  to  115  feet  below  grade  as  there  are  no  known  hazardous  materials  that  have  been  on  the 
site  that  could  penetrate  to  such  a  depth.  If  there  were  contaminated  soils,  they  would  remain 
sealed  below  the  site  as  the  placement  of  piles  would  not  remove  any  soils.58 

The  potential  exposure  to  any  contaminated  soils  would  be  minimized  through  the 
preparation,  implementation,  and  compliance  with  the  Site  Mitigation  Plan  (SMP)  called  for 


Letter  from  Rajiv  Dhatia,  M.D.,  DPH-LOP,  to  Shannon  Brundleck,  January  23,  2002.  This  letter  is  available  by 
appointment  for  public  review  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street,  Fifth  Floor,  San 
Francisco,  as  part  of  Case  File  2001.0062E. 

58  Robert  J.  Stechmann,  Principal,  Stechmann  Geoscience,  Inc.,  telephone  conversation  with  Stu  During,  During 
Associates,  August  30,  2004. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.293 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

SOILS  AND  SEISMICITY 

in  the  Hazards  Mitigation  Measure  on  pages  107  to  109  in  the  DEIR,  which  would  be 
required  as  a  condition  of  project  approval. 

The  DEIR  identifies  mitigation  measures  on  pages  12  through  14  and  107  through  109  to 
address  the  issue  of  potential  impacts  from  hazardous  materials  on  the  project  site,  including 
the  quality  of  soils  disturbed  during  the  excavation  and  placement  of  piles,  and  the  potential 
exposure  to  any  contaminated  soils.  An  SMP  would  be  prepared  by  the  project  sponsor  and 
approved  by  EHS-H WU  that  would  include  a  discussion  of  the  level  of  soils  contamination 
on  the  project  site  by  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  lead,  total  chromium  or  other  hazardous 
materials  and  mitigation  measures  for  managing  contaminated  soils  on  the  site,  including,  but 
not  limited  to:  1)  the  removal  of  the  contaminated  soils;  and  2)  the  specific  practices  to  be 
used  to  handle,  haul,  and  dispose  of  contaminated  soils  on  the  site.  The  project  sponsor 
would  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the  implementation  of  the  SMP  and  reporting  to  EHS- 
HWU. 

The  mitigation  measures  identified  in  the  DEIR  would  ensure  that  the  hazardous  materials  on 
the  project  site  would  be  removed  and  treated  in  accordance  with  regulatory  guidelines  and 
that  there  would  be  no  potential  significant  hazardous  materials  impacts  associated  with  the 
construction  of  the  proposed  project. 

Comment  #131 

"The  other  thing  this  fails  to  do  is  address  the  serious  earthquake  danger  if  approved  at  this  facility. 
This  area  that  Home  Depot  is  proposed  for  is  built  on  fill,  so  I  went  to  the  web  and  looked  up  what 
ABAG  said  about  the  materials  in  this  particular  area.  This  shaking  amplification  quality  of  the 
ground  where  Home  Depot  is  being  built  is  extremely  high.  It  is  the  worst  area  in  San  Francisco  for 
this.  I  would  not  want  to  be  in  this  building  during  a  serious  earthquake,  and  I  think  the  DEIR  should 
address  that  issue."  (John  Hayes,  Resident) 

"I'm  no  earthquake  expert,  but  I  was  standing  in  my  place  during  the  last  earthquake.  We  have  a 
much  taller  facility  than  this,  with  heavy  carpets  way  up  high  on  racks.  We  had  no  damage;  nothing 
fell.  But,  you  know,  that's  only  (my)  experience."  (Steve  St.  Denny,  Business  Owner) 

Response  #131 

As  noted  in  the  Response  to  Comment  #129,  the  geotechnical  report  for  the  project  site  notes 
that  the  project  site  would  be  subject  to  ground  shaking  in  the  event  of  seismic  activity 
(earthquake),  and  a  number  of  recommendations  are  made  to  ensure  that  the  project  would  be 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.294 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

SOILS  AND  SEISMICITY 


properly  supported  on  piles,  and  the  foundation  would  feature  a  transition  or  hinged  slab  to 
allow  for  anticipated  long  term  settlement.  Moreover,  the  DBI  would  require  that  the  project 
meet  all  seismic  safety  codes  for  construction  of  the  foundation  and  building  of  the  home 
improvement  store.  Potential  damage  to  structures  from  geological  hazards  would  be 
mitigated  through  DBI  review  of  building  permit  applications  pursuant  to  DBFs 
implementation  of  the  San  Francisco  Building  Code. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.295 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

CULTURAL  RESOURCES 


CULTURAL  RESOURCES 


Comment  #132 

"I  am  writing  to  provide  comment  on  the  above  referenced  Draft  Environmental  Impact  Report 
(EIR).  As  an  environmental  engineering  professional,  I  review  and  prepare  environmental 
information  documents.  In  general,  I  think  the  Draft  EIR  provided  a  thorough  review  of  the  potential 
impacts  of  the  proposed  project  with  the  exception  of  the  cultural  resources  section. 

"I  did  not  have  access  to  the  cultural  resources  evaluation  performed  by  an  independent  consulting 
firm  as  part  of  the  review  process,  but  the  summary  provided  in  the  Draft  EIR  did  not  mention  any 
consultation  efforts  with  representatives  of  the  Ohlone  Tribe.  The  evaluation  is  deficient  if 
representatives  of  the  Tribe  have  not  been  consulted.  Considering  the  site  'should  be  deemed  a  zone 
of  high  prehistoric/protohistoric  archaeological  sensitivity,'  the  proposed  mitigation  measure  is 
inadequate  to  identify  and  protect  cultural  resources.  Although  the  mitigation  measure  described  in 
the  Draft  EIR  specifies  that  ALERT  sheets  would  be  circulated  to  all  field  personnel  working  on  the 
site  during  construction,  these  individuals  are  not  trained  in  recognizing  archaeological  resources. 
An  appropriate  mitigation  measure  would  provide  for  a  licensed  archaeologist  and  Ohlone  tribal 
representative  to  monitor  the  site  during  excavation  or  other  ground  disturbing  activities. 

"Consultation  with  Tribes  is  an  important  step  in  the  environmental  review  process  for  any 
construction  project,  especially  when  the  site  has  been  identified  as  a  sensitive  area  for  cultural 
resource  issues.  I  would  strongly  recommend  contacting  representatives  of  the  Ohlone  Tribe  and 
discussing  potential  mitigation  measures  with  them.  They  may  be  able  to  provide  a  monitor  or  have 
other  suggestions  that  would  ensure  that  any  archaeological  resources  found  would  be  handled  in  an 
appropriate  manner  that  is  also  respectful  of  the  wishes  of  the  Ohlone  people.  The  California  Office 
of  Historic  Preservation  may  be  able  to  provide  contact  information  for  representatives  of  the  Ohlone 
Tribe."  (Sara  Jacobs,  P.E.) 

"What  about  the  cultural  impact?  No  one  has  spoken  of  the  Ohlone  Indians  and  the  artifacts  that  may 
exist  in  that  area.  Don't  we  think  Native  Americans  have  been  harmed  enough  in  this  country?"  (Gil 
Payne,  Resident) 

Response  #132 

The  commenters  are  correct  in  identifying  the  importance  of  Native  American  participation 
in  the  environmental  review  process.  Archeo-Tec,  the  author  of  the  Archival  Cultural 
Resources  Evaluation  of  the  project  (summarized  on  pages  101  to  103  in  the  DEIR), 
contacted  the  California  State  Native  American  Heritage  Commission  (NAHC)  during  the 
preparation  of  the  report.  The  NAHC  did  not  comment  regarding  the  archeological  cultural 
resources  or  the  proposed  project.  In  the  event  human  remains  or  unassociated  funerary 
objects  are  discovered  on  the  project  site,  the  NAHC  would  be  notified  and,  in  accordance 
with  Public  Resources  Code  Section  5097.98,  a  Most  Likely  Descendant  (MLD)  would  be 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.296 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

CULTURAL  RESOURCES 


appointed  to  work  with  the  project  sponsor,  the  City,  and  a  designated  archeological 
consultant. 

Shortly  after  the  DEIR  was  published,  the  Planning  Department  revised  the  standard  archival 
mitigation  measures  to  include  a  testing  program  prior  to  excavation  of  a  project,  and  the 
sponsor  has  agreed  to  adopt  it.  This  more  stringent  and  comprehensive  measure  would 
ensure  that  the  project's  potential  impacts  on  subsurface  cultural  resources  would  be  reduced 
to  a  level  of  insignificance.  This  new  Cultural  Resource  Mitigation  Measure  replaces  the 
measure  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  15,  16,  109,  110,  and  A-25  of  the  Initial  Study  in  Appendix  A 
of  the  DEIR,  and  can  be  found  in  Section  E  -  Staff-Initiated  Text  Changes  and  Errata,  from 
page  C&R.365  through  C&R.368. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.297 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

GROWTH  INDUCEMENT 


GROWTH  INDUCEMENT 

Comment  #133 

"Page  1 1 :  No  factual  basis  is  provided  for  the  conclusion  that  induced  commercial  growth  in  the  area 
is  part  of  planned  growth.  There  is  no  approved  plan  to  increase  commercial  uses  in  the  area;  nor  has 
there  been  environmental  review  of  any  such  plan  (it  cannot  be  assumed  that  the  induced  growth  has 
undergone  environmental  review).  The  project  site  is  located  in  an  Industrial  Protection  Zone 
Special  Use  District  that  prioritizes  manufacturing,  warehousing,  and  repair  services,  not  retail  land 
uses. 

"The  Draft  EIR  finds  that  the  project  would  not  have  a  significant  effect  on  growth  inducement.1 
This  finding  is  inadequate. 

"The  proposed  Home  Depot  development  is  intended  to  be  growth  inducing,  and  its  impacts  as  a 
growth-inducing  development  need  to  be  studied  as  part  of  the  EIR.  Since  the  project's  application 
for  environmental  review,  Pier  One  Imports  has  lease-optioned  a  currently  undeveloped  site  adjacent 
to  the  proposed  Home  Depot  development  on  the  condition  that  the  Home  Depot  development  is 
granted  approval  to  build,  which  demonstrates  that  without  even  breaking  ground,  the  project  is 
inducing  growth. 

"The  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  and  the  San  Francisco  Redevelopment  Agency,  through  the 
Eastern  Neighborhoods  Planning  and  Zoning  process  and  the  Survey  Area  Plan  for  the  South 
Bayshore  Survey  Area,  have  stated  an  intention  to  encourage  development,  including  Big  Box  retail 
development,  along  the  Bayshore  corridor.  The  Redevelopment  Agency  has  been  explicit  in  its 
support  of  the  Home  Depot  proposed  development  that  Home  Depot  is  necessary  to  anchor  and 
jumpstart  further  large-scale  development  along  Bayshore. 

"The  Draft  EIR  states  that  the  project  may  induce  commercial  growth  in  the  area,  but  such  growth 
would  be  part  of  the  planned  growth  for  the  City.  The  commercial  growth  induced  by  the  project,  if 
comparable  in  size  and  scope  to  the  project  (in  aggregate  as  well  as  individually),  would  create 
impacts  on  infrastructure  far  above  existing  capacity.  The  possible  impacts  on  infrastructure  would 
include,  but  are  not  limited  to:  traffic,  including  intersections  and  freeway  on-and  off-ramps;  traffic 
flow  capacity  of  101  northbound  and  southbound;  water  and  sewer  usage;  mass  transit  routing;  and 
emergency  services  response  times.  The  Draft  EIR  reference  to  planned  commercial  growth 
provides  no  citation  to  a  specific  plan,  so  it  is  impossible  to  determine  which  plan  is  being 
referenced. 

"The  San  Francisco  Redevelopment  Agency  has  been  very  explicit  that  they  support  the  project 
because  the  project  will  increase  the  value  of  the  land  on  the  site,  and  that  the  tax  increment  created 
by  this  increase  will  be  earmarked  to  finance  other  projects  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Survey 
Area.  This  increase  in  land  value  will  cause  increases  in  land  value  throughout  the  Bayshore  IPZ, 
creating  pressures  for  speculative  rent  increases  for  Bayshore  businesses,  leading  to  displacement  of 
existing  businesses. 

"The  Planning  Department  anticipates  this  displacement  in  their  recommended  zoning  changes  for 
the  Bayshore  corridor,  contained  in  the  Eastern  Neighborhoods  Plan.  They  recommend  that 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  from  U.S.  101  to  Loomis  Street  in  one  draft,  and  from  U.S.  101  to  Barneveld 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.298 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

GROWTH  INDUCEMENT 

Street  in  another,  be  rezoned  to  'Industrial/Large  Retail,'  a  euphemism  for  more  big  box  retail 
development. 

"Again,  the  City,  through  its  agencies,  have  made  explicit  claims  and  based  significant  planning 
strategies  on  the  basis  of  their  belief  that  the  proposed  Home  Depot  will  cause  more  than  equivalent 
commercial  growth,  but  will  induce  growth. 

"The  Environmental  Impact  Report  needs  to  review  and  analyze  the  reports,  plans,  studies,  and 
recommendations  of  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  and  the  San  Francisco  Redevelopment 
Agency  regarding  the  Bayshore  corridor,  and  the  proposed  Home  Depot  development,  including  the 
Bayshore  Boulevard  portion  of  the  Eastern  Neighborhoods  Plan,  and  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
Community  Revitalization  Concept  Plan  and  related  documents  to  accurately  assess  whether  the 
project  is  growth  inducing  before  making  a  finding."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara 
Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 
Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  DEIR,  Section  F,  page  103. 


"I  would  like  to  focus  on  one  portion  of  the  DEIR,  which  is  a  one-page  finding  on  growth 
inducement.  The  draft  EIR  finds  that  the  project  would  not  have  a  significant  effect  on  growth 
inducement.  That's  on  page  103,  Section  F.  This  finding  is  clearly  inadequate.  The  proposed  Home 
Depot  development  is  intended  to  be  growth  inducing.  Its  impact  as  a  growth-inducing  development 
needs  to  be  studied  as  part  of  an  EIR.  Since  the  project's  application  for  environmental  review,  it  is 
our  understanding  that  Pier  1  Imports  has  lease  options  on  a  currently  undeveloped  site  immediately 
adjacent  to  the  proposed  Home  Depot,  on  the  condition  that  the  Home  Depot  development  is  granted 
approval  to  build.  This  demonstrates,  without  even  breaking  ground,  that  the  project  is  growth 
inducing.  The  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  and  San  Francisco  redevelopment  agency, 
through  the  neighborhoods  planning  and  zoning  process,  and  the  survey  area  planned  for  the  South 
Bayshore  Survey  area,  has  stated  an  intention  to  encourage  development,  including  big-box  retail 
development,  along  the  Bayshore  border.  The  redevelopment  agency  has  been  explicitly  supportive 
of  the  Home  Depot  proposed  development,  because  it  feels  Home  Depot  is  necessary  to  anchor  and 
jump-start  large  scale  development  along  Bayshore.  This  is  growth  inducement,  and  it  needs  to  be 
studied  in  the  EIR. 

"The  draft  EIR  states  that  the  project  may  induce  commercial  growth  in  the  area,  but  such  growth 
would  be  part  of  the  planned  growth  of  the  city.  There  is  no  reference  in  the  draft  EIR  to  a  specific 
plan  about  this  commercial  growth,  so  it  is  impossible  to  determine  which  plan  is  being  referenced. 
The  commercial  growth  induced  by  the  project,  if  comparable  in  size  to  the  scope  of  the  project, 
would  create  impacts  on  infrastructure  far  above  existing  capacity.  The  possible  impacts  on 
infrastructure  would  include  traffic  intersections;  freeway  on  ramps;  traffic  flow;  impact  on  water 
and  sewage.  I  would  just  ask  you,  the  Planning  Department,  to  look  into  the  growth  inducement  that 
is  being  acknowledged  here."  (Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community 
Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #133 

CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15126.2(d)  requires  the  DEIR  to  describe  and  evaluate  any 
growth-inducing  impacts  of  a  proposed  project.  CEQA  defines  growth-inducing  impacts  as 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.299 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

GROWTH  INDUCEMENT 

"the  ways  in  which  the  proposed  project  could  foster  economic  or  population  growth,  or  the 
construction  of  additional  housing,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  in  the  surrounding 
environment.  The  environmental  effects  of  this  growth  are  considered  to  be  secondary  or 
indirect  impacts  of  the  project.  CEQA  states  that  "//  must  not  be  assumed  that  growth  in  any 
area  is  necessarily  beneficial,  detrimental,  or  of  little  significance  to  the  environment" 
(CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15126.2(d)). 

Various  factors  determine  and  influence  population  growth  and  development  in  an  area. 
These  factors  include  plans  and  policies  of  local  communities,  counties,  special  districts,  and 
regional  agencies;  the  existing  infrastructure,  including  the  availability  of  services  such  as 
domestic  water,  wastewater  treatment  and  disposal,  fire  protection,  and  public  schools; 
transportation  systems  capacity;  the  inventory  of  developable  land;  land  costs;  employment 
trends;  and  other  economic  considerations.  Any  one  of  these  factors  could  represent  a  major, 
or  even  singular  constraint  to  development.  The  removal  of  an  obstacle  to  future  growth 
could  have  growth-inducing  potential  and  is  considered  a  growth-inducing  impact. 

As  noted  on  page  103  of  the  DEIR  in  the  Growth  Inducement  section,  the  proposed  project 
would  replace  two  existing  buildings,  formerly  used  for  a  home  improvement  and  building 
supply  store  and  a  retail  home  furnishing  and  supply  store  totaling  approximately  107,400 
sq.ft.,  with  an  approximately  153,089  sq.-ft.  home  improvement  store  and  a  539-space 
parking  garage.  With  the  proposed  home  improvement  store  and  parking  garage,  the  daily 
population  on  the  project  site  would  increase  by  approximately  2,500  to  3,300  people. 

The  project  would  not  provide  new  infrastructure  that  could  be  used  to  serve  other  projects, 
nor  would  it  extend  infrastructure  into  a  new  area.  The  project  is  not  providing  housing,  and 
the  increase  in  daytime  population  on  the  site  would  largely  occur  from  the  existing 
population  in  the  City  and  nearby  communities.  The  increases  in  the  population  would  not 
tax  existing  community  service  facilities,  requiring  construction  of  new  facilities  that  could 
cause  significant  environmental  effects.  (See  discussion  in  the  Initial  Study,  Appendix  A  of 
the  DEIR,  on  page  A- 17  regarding  the  project's  potential  effect  on  utilities  and  public 
services.)  The  project  would,  however,  have  a  significant  unmitigable  contribution  to  the 
Year  2015  adverse  cumulative  conditions  on  the  various  U.S.  101  and  1-280  on-ramps,  and 
significant  unmitigable  project-specific  and  cumulative  impacts  on  air  quality. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.300 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

GROWTH  INDUCEMENT 

The  DEIR  acknowledges  on  page  103  that  the  proposed  project  would  intensify  the  use  of  the 
site  and  may  induce  commercial  growth  in  the  area.  The  analysis  of  the  project's  potential 
cumulative  impacts  on  the  environment  assumed  a  one  percent  annual  growth  rate  that  would 
capture  any  development  "induced"  by  the  project.  The  project  is  not  expected,  however,  to 
substantially  alter  development  patterns  in  the  northwest  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area  or 
elsewhere  in  San  Francisco.  The  proposed  project  would  create  employment  opportunities, 
but  it  would  not  add  a  significant  number  of  employees  to  San  Francisco's  economy. 

As  Response  to  Comment  #30  notes,  the  San  Francisco  Redevelopment  Agency's  and  the 
Planning  Department's  efforts  for  the  project  area,  including  the  South  Bayshore  Area  Plan, 
the  Concept  Plan,  the  Preliminary  Redevelopment  Plan  for  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
Redevelopment  Area,  and  the  Community  Planning  in  the  Eastern  Neighborhoods,  Rezoning 
Options  Workbook  First  Draft,  entail  and  plan  for  commercial  use  along  Bayshore 
Boulevard.  The  decision-makers  would  determine  size  of  the  proposed  project  and  extent  of 
the  proposed  project's  conformity  or  conflict  with  the  various  plans.  None  of  these  plans 
encourage  large  "Big  Box"  retail  use  for  the  project  site. 

The  Board  of  Supervisors  passed  Ordinance  89-04  on  May  18,  2004,  which  adds  Section 
121.6  to  the  Planning  Code  imposing  a  Conditional  Use  requirement  for  retail  uses  in  excess 
of  50,000  gross  square  feet  (outside  the  C-3  zoning  districts  and  90,000  gross  square  feet 
within  C-3  zoning  districts).  However,  the  proposed  project  and  projects  that  submitted  site 
permit  applications  to  the  Planning  Department  prior  to  July  15,  2003  are  excluded  from  the 
ordinance.  The  proposed  project  would  be  designed  to  comply  with  the  current  zoning  and 
the  proposed  "area"-type  plans,  which  call  for  commercial  use  of  the  project  site  and 
surrounding  areas.  Therefore,  any  growth  that  may  be  induced  or  encouraged  by  the  project 
would  be  growth  that  has  been  envisioned  by  the  applicable  plans  and  policies,  and  for  which 
adequate  infrastructure  is  planned. 

The  extent  to  which  the  project  would  displace  any  existing  business  is  speculative,  and  if 
existing  businesses  were  to  be  displaced,  it  is  not  expected  that  any  indirect  environmental 
impacts  would  occur  (see  Response  to  Comment  #153),  therefore  business  displacement  is 
not  required  by  CEQA  to  be  addressed  in  the  DEIR. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.301 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

GROWTH  INDUCEMENT 


The  Planning  Department  does  not  currently  have  an  application  for  a  Pier  1  store  to  be 
developed  in  the  project  area.  Two  businesses  that  have  closed  in  the  area,  OfficeMax  and 
Carpet  Connection,  were  assumed  to  be  operational  as  part  of  the  existing  baseline  setting. 

The  commenters  have  not  provided  any  evidence  that  the  project  and  commercial  growth  in 
the  area  would  create  impacts  on  the  infrastructure  far  above  existing  capacity. 


Comment  #134 

"The  Growth  Inducement  section  of  the  Draft  EIR  (on  page  103  and  also  in  the  Summary  on  page 
11)  states  that  the  daily  population  of  the  store  would  include  75-100  employees.  This  estimate 
should  be  changed  to  reflect  the  fact  that  the  daily  population  of  the  store  would  include 
approximately  197  employees.  This  change  was  calculated  as  follows: 

"Home  Depot  estimates  that  store  employees  would  work  for  a  total  of  approximately  10,080  hours 
per  week,  which  is  similar  to  the  number  of  hours  worked  each  week  at  Home  Depot's  Colma  store. 
Based  on  the  experience  of  other  Home  Depot  stores,  we  have  assumed  in  the  calculations  that  the 
labor  force  at  the  store  would  be  comprised  of  about  60%  full  time  and  40%  part  time  associates. 
Therefore,  assuming  that  full  time  employees  work,  on  average,  a  40-hour  work  week  (i.e.,  five  8- 
hour  days)  and  that  part  time  employees  work,  on  average,  24  hours  per  week  (i.e.,  four  6-hour  days), 
then  approximately  180  full-  and  120  part-time  employees  would  work  at  the  store  each  week,  as 
shown  below:1 

180  full  time  associates  x  40  hours  per  week  =     7,200  full  time  hours  per  week 
+  120  part  time  associates  x  24  hours  per  week  =    2,880  part  time  hours  per  week 
300  total  associates  10,080  total  hours  per  week 

"The  revised  daily  store  population  of  197  employees  per  day  is  based  on  the  following  calculations: 

7,200  full  time  hours  per  week  over  7  days  =  1,029  full  times  hours  per  day 
1,029  full  time  hours  per  day  at  8  hours  =  128.5  full  time  associates  per  day 

2,880  part  time  hours  per  week  over  7  days  =  411  part  time  hours  per  day 

411  part  time  hours  per  day  at  6  hours  (average  shift  assumption)  =  68.5  part  time  associates  per 
day 

"The  sum  of  128.5  full-time  associates  plus  68.5  part-time  associates  equals  197  associates  per  day. 

"Note  that  this  change  in  numbers  will  not  in  any  way  affect  the  assumptions  contained  in  the  Draft 
EIR  traffic  analysis.  The  trip  generation  numbers  calculated  in  the  Draft  EIR  based  the  number  of 
vehicle  trips  on  the  square  footage  of  the  store  (as  derived  from  other  Home  Depot  stores  in 
California).  Because  these  numbers  are  not  derived  from  the  projected  numbers  of  employees  and 
customers,  the  change  in  the  daily  employee  population  does  not  affect  the  traffic  calculations." 
(Anna  C.  Shimko,  Attorney  at  Law  for  Home  Depot) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.302 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

GROWTH  INDUCEMENT 


Note  that  because  the  store  is  not  yet  open,  these  estimates  are  necessarily  approximations,  based  on 
information  from  other  comparable  Home  Depot  stores,  of  the  total  hours  worked  per  week  as  well  as  the 
potential  ratio  of  full-time  to  part-time  employees. 

See  page  3-1  of  the  Wilbur  Smith  Associates  Transportation  Study  dated  September  17,  2002,  on  which  the 
Draft  EIR  transportation  analysis  is  based:  To  determine  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trip  generation,  driveway 
counts  were  performed  at  four  similar  Home  Depot  stores  in  California...  From  the  driveway  counts, 
weekday  PM  peak  hour  vehicle-trip  generation  rates  on  a  per  square  foot  basis  were  developed  for  each 
store.  To  determine  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  trip  generation,  the  ratio  between  the  weekday  PM 
peak  hour  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  driveway  counts  from  the  Colma  store  was  determined.  This 
ratio  was  applied  to  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trip  generation  rate  to  estimate  the  Saturday  midday  peak 
hour  trip  generation  rate.1 

Response  #134 

The  comment  is  noted.  As  stated  in  Response  to  Comment  #36,  the  DEIR  is  revised  to 
reflect  the  increased  employment  figures;  however,  the  change  would  not  alter  the 
transportation  and  population  analyses  since  the  employment  projections  were  within  the 
range  analyzed.  The  conclusions  reached  in  the  DEIR  would  not  change. 

Comment  #135 

"And  we  would  need  to  have  on  page  103  -  we've  got  a  growth  inducement  report  that  -  I  think  you 
might  want  to  take  a  second  look  at.  We  should  use  that  number  of  employees,  which  should  be 
accurately  reflected  in  the  report.  The  report  utilizes  a  figure  of  3,000  shoppers  per  day.  You  want 
to  bolster  how  you  arrive  at  that  number  in  the  final  version."  (Kevin  Hughes,  Planning 
Commissioner) 

"There's  also  going  to  be  growth  inducement.  I  don't  think  that  was  spoken  to  enough  in  the  DEIR. 
If  we're  going  to  let  Pier  1  come  in  after  this,  I  don't  think  that's  going  to  be  in  any  way  mitigating  to 
the  traffic."  (Rachel  Kesel,  Resident) 

"Secondly,  as  a  stated  growth  inducer,  there  is  the  potential  of  other  businesses  coming,  which  will 
further  aggravate  both  traffic  and  the  air  pollution."  (Robert  Mokry,  Resident) 

Response  #135 

At  present,  there  are  no  applications  to  the  Planning  Department  for  any  new  commercial 
business  near  the  proposed  project  site.  As  noted  in  Response  to  Comment  #133,  the 
proposed  project  would  not  have  significant  growth-inducing  impacts,  although  there  could 
be  an  increase  in  commercial  businesses  along  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  corridor  that  may  or 
may  not  be  "induced"  by  the  project.  The  DEIR  analyses  for  cumulative  impacts  assumed  a 
one  percent  annual  growth  rate  that  would  account  for  any  new  development  in  the  project 
area.  The  project  would  not  have  a  significant  growth-inducing  impact. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.303 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

GROWTH  INDUCEMENT 

The  DEIR  analysis  of  impacts  assumed  that  the  daily  population  on  the  project  site  would 
increase  by  approximately  2,500  to  3,300  people,  and  this  assumption  has  not  changed. 
Response  to  Comment  #36  notes  that  the  employment  projections  have  been  revised  and  the 
change  would  still  be  within  the  range  analyzed  in  the  transportation  analyses.  The  estimated 
numbers  were  derived  from  actual  counts  at  other  Home  Depot  stores  and  adopted  for  the 
proposed  project. 


July  28,  2005 

2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.304 


Home  Depot 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 


MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 

Mitigation  Measures 

Hazardous  Materials 

Comment  #136 

"Pages  13-14  [of  the  DEIR]:  The  mitigations  of  hazard  impacts  are  inadequate.  The  mitigations 
calling  for  the  preparation  of  a  revised  site  mitigation  plan  and  a  revised  health  and  safety  plan  are 
improperly  deferred  to  the  future  because  they  do  not  specify  the  performance  standards  that  the 
plans  must  achieve. 

"The  mitigation  specified  during  excavation  of  contaminated  soil,  that  'the  construction  contractor 
shall  be  alert'  for  the  presence  of  heavy  metals  (lead  and  chromium)  during  excavation  and  other 
construction  activities  on  the  site  is  ineffective  since  ordinarily  these  substances  are  not  discernible 
visually  or  by  smell.  The  only  way  to  determine  the  presence  of  these  contaminants  is  by  systematic 
sampling. 

"The  mitigation  requires  the  construction  contractor  to  'use  clean  fill  or  other  suitable  materials  to 
bring  portions  of  the  project  site,  where  contaminated  soils  have  been  excavated  and  removed,  up  to 
construction  grade.'  What  are  the  other  suitable  materials  that  would  be  allowed?  Would  this 
mitigation  allow  the  practice  of  partially  refilling  excavations  with  contaminated  backfill  and 
covering  the  contaminated  soil  with  clean  soil?  This  practice  should  not  be  allowed."  (Eve  Bach, 
Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan, 
Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #136 

The  Initial  Study  concluded  that  the  proposed  project  would  not  have  significant  adverse 
hazardous  materials  impacts  (for  further  information,  see  Appendix  A  in  the  DEIR,  pages  A- 
21  to  A-23)  and  did  not  warrant  further  discussion  in  the  DEIR.  However,  hazardous 
materials  information  was  included  in  the  DEIR  for  informational  purposes.  The  DEIR 
concluded  that  the  proposed  project  would  not  have  significant  adverse  hazardous  materials 
impacts.  (Discussion  is  on  DEIR  pages  9,  10,  and  93  to  101.) 

There  have  been  96  samples  taken  from  the  soils  on  the  site  and  analyzed  for  the  presence  of 
hazardous  materials.  The  results  of  the  analyses  were  reviewed  by  the  San  Francisco 
Department  of  Public  Health,  Environmental  Health  Management  Section  Hazardous  Waste 
Unit  (EHS-HWU)  which  approved  the  work  plan.  On  August  9,  2001,  EHS-HWU  requested 
that  an  area  where  elevated  chromium  concentrations  were  found  be  removed  from  the 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street  C&R.305 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 

proposed  project  site  and  not  be  included  as  part  of  the  fill  material.  The  mitigation  measures 
for  the  potential  treatment  and  removal  of  hazardous  materials  are  required  by  law.  Those 
measures  listed  in  the  DEIR  were  developed  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  by 
local,  state,  and  federal  standards.  Thus,  the  mitigation  measures  are  adequate. 

The  mitigation  measures  would  be  included  in  the  Mitigation  Monitoring  Reporting  Program 
(MMRP),  a  plan  that  identifies  the  process  for  ensuring  implementation  of  the  mitigation 
measures.  The  MMRP  would  contain  the  following  information: 

-  Who  would  be  responsible  for  the  implementation  of  the  mitigation  measures 
(for  the  hazardous  materials  mitigation,  the  project  sponsor  and  the  licensed 
geotechnical  contractor); 

-  The  schedule  of  the  mitigation  implementation  (for  the  hazardous  materials 
mitigation,  during  demolition,  excavation  and  construction); 

-  The  specific  action  of  the  mitigation;  (the  mitigation  measures  listed  in  the 
DEIR  [pages  12  to  14,  107  to  109,  and  in  the  Initial  Study,  Appendix  A,  on 
pages  A-21  to  A-23  for  procedures  related  to  asbestos  and  lead-based  paint 
exposure]); 

-  The  responsibility  for  monitoring  the  mitigation  action  (for  the  hazardous 
materials  mitigation,  the  project  sponsor  and  Department  of  Public  Health 
EHS-HWU);  and 

-  The  schedule  for  the  monitoring  (for  the  hazardous  materials  mitigation, 
during  excavation,  demolition,  and  construction). 

The  hazardous  materials  mitigation,  which  would  be  adopted  as  part  of  the  conditions  of 
project  approval,  would  be  considered  complete  upon  the  EHS-HWU's  receipt  of  the  final 
monitoring  report  at  the  completion  of  construction.  The  hazardous  materials  mitigation 
measures  in  the  DEIR  assure  that  the  SMP  would  be  implemented. 

The  project  sponsor  and  construction  contractors  would  be  required  to  observe  all  state  and 
federal  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration  (OSHA)  safety  requirements  related 
to  potential  sources  of  hazardous  substances  as  a  result  of  activities  on  and  off  the  site  that 
may  have  involved  handling,  storage,  or  disposal  of  hazardous  substances  that  could  affect 
the  quality  of  soils  or  groundwater.  As  part  of  the  mitigation  measure  cited  above,  the  project 
sponsor  would  provide  information  regarding  the  conditions  on  the  project  site  and  present 
plans  to  the  Department  of  Public  Health  and  the  Department  of  Building  Inspection.  All 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.306 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 

excavation  and  clean-up  is  monitored  by  the  Department  of  Toxic  Substance  Control 
(DTSC).  Sampling  of  soil  would  be  at  the  discretion  of  DTSC. 

The  mitigation  measures  for  hazardous  materials  are  properly  stated  pursuant  to  CEQA 
Guideline?,  Section  15126.4.  The  performance  standards  for  the  SMP  and  the  Health  and 
Safety  Plan  (HSP)  are  identified  in  the  California  Occupational  Safety  and  Health 
Administration  Guidelines,  as  overseen  by  the  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health 
EHS-HWU. 

The  specific  mitigation  measure  referenced  by  the  commenter  does  not  limit  the  construction 
contractor  to  discerning  hazardous  materials  to  sight  and  smell.  The  measure  (stated  on  page 
108  of  the  DEIR)  states  that  "the  construction  contractor  shall  be  alert  for  the  presence  of 
such  soils  during  excavation  and  other  construction  activities  on  the  site  (detected  through 
soil  odor,  color,  and  texture  and  results  of  on-site  soil  testing.)" 

The  mitigation  related  to  soils  replacement  under  the  category  of  Handling,  Hauling,  and 
Disposal  of  Contaminated  Soils  on  page  108  in  the  DEIR  does  not  specify  what  other  suitable 
materials  would  be  beyond  clean  fill.  The  DEIR  on  page  100  notes  that  in  a  letter  dated 
August  9,  200 1 ,  EHS-HWU  requested  that  the  area  where  elevated  chromium  concentrations 
were  found  be  removed  from  the  site  and  not  be  included  as  part  of  fill  material.  The 
decision  on  suitable  fill  material  would  be  made  by  the  Department  of  Public  Health  EHS- 
HWU  when  it  approves  the  HSP. 

Comment  #137 

"Page  14  [of  the  DEIR]:  One  of  the  hazard  mitigations  potentially  requires  the  project  sponsor  to 
record  a  deed  notice  even  though  Home  Depot  is  not  the  property  owner. 

"It  is  not  clear  what  protection  would  be  offered  by  recording  a  notice  on  the  deed  warning  about 
contamination  since  a  notice  does  not  represent  a  proprietary  interest  in  the  property  that  can  enforce 
any  limitations  on  use.  It  is  also  unclear  whether  the  project  sponsor  even  would  have  the  authority 
to  implement  this  mitigation  since  Home  Depot  will  be  leasing  the  site.  This  site  appears  to  qualify 
as  a  State  Superfund  site  that  should  be  cleaned  up  under  the  supervision  of  the  California 
Department  of  Toxic  Substances  Control."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle, 
Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 
Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.307 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 

Response  #137 

The  commenter  refers  to  an  identified  action  as  part  of  the  hazardous  materials  mitigation 
measure  that  calls  for  the  project  sponsor  to  record  a  notice  against  the  title  for  the  proposed 
project  site  that  indicates  the  need  to  take  special  precautions  during  future  disturbance  of  the 
soils  on  the  property  due  to  certain  on-site  soil  conditions  if  potentially  hazardous  levels  of 
petroleum  hydrocarbons,  lead,  total  chromium  or  other  hazardous  materials  associated  with 
gas  and  oil  facility  were  to  remain  in  soils  on  the  project  site  after  project  construction.  The 
project  sponsor  can  be  required  by  the  City  to  record  such  notice  (or  to  cause  the  property 
owner  to  record  the  notice)  as  a  condition  of  building  permit  issuance.  Such  notice  would 
ensure  that  all  future  tenants  and/or  owners  of  the  site  are  fully  apprised  of  site  conditions. 

The  California  Department  of  Toxic  Substances  Control's  (DTSC)  Site  Mitigation  and 
Brownfields  Reuse  Program  oversees  the  cleanup  of  State  Superfund  Sites.  State  Superfund 
sites  are  also  called  Annual  Workplan  sites,  listed  sites,  or  Cortese  List  sites.  These  are  sites 
with  evidence  of  a  hazardous  substance  release  or  releases  that  could  pose  a  significant  threat 
to  public  health  and/or  the  environment.  DTSC  issues  orders  to  responsible  parties  to  compel 
the  clean  up  of  these  sites.  Where  no  responsible  parties  can  be  found  or  where  they  do  not 
take  proper  and  timely  action,  DTSC  may  use  State  funds  to  undertake  the  cleanup.  If 
necessary,  emergency  actions  may  be  taken.59  As  noted  on  pages  93  to  101  in  the  DEIR,  the 
project  site  is  not  an  abandoned  or  uncontrolled  hazardous  waste  site.  The  hazardous 
materials  mitigation  measures  listed  on  pages  107  through  109  in  the  DEIR  would  ensure  that 
the  hazardous  materials  on  the  project  site  would  be  removed  and  treated  in  accordance  with 
regulatory  guidelines  and  that  there  would  be  no  potential  significant  hazardous  materials 
impacts  associated  with  the  proposed  project. 

Cultural  Resources 

Comment  #138 

"Page  15  [of  the  DEIR]:  The  mitigation  for  impacts  to  cultural  resources  recommended  by  the 
cultural  resource  consultant  has  been  omitted  from  the  DEIR  which  provides  a  less  protective 
mitigation. 


http://www.dtsc.ca.gov/SiteCleanup/Brownfields/BF_FS_IS&E_l  l-04.pdf. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.308 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 

"Page  102:  The  DEIR  recommends  'a  systematic  program  of  pre-construction  archaeological  testing' 
but  does  not  include  it  as  the  recommended  mitigation. 

"The  study  on  cultural  resources  submitted  to  the  EIR  consultant  (Stu  During)  by  the  cultural 
resources  consultant  (Allen  Pastron)  recommends  as  a  mitigation  'a  systematic  program  of 
preconstruction  archaeological  testing  and  evaluation.'1  However,  the  DEIR  proposes  as  mitigation 
that  'the  project  sponsor  shall  distribute  and  Planning  Department  archaeological  resource  ALERT 
sheet  to  the  project  prime  contractor...'  instructing  those  excavating  the  site  to  be  on  the  lookout  for 
t  artifacts.  No  explanation  is  offered  in  the  DEIR  for  the  rejection  of  the  recommended  mitigation  of 
sampling.  The  EIR  should  require  the  Pastron  mitigation."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant; 
Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights 
Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  Allen  Pastron,  Archeo-Tec,  Inc.  "Archival  Cultural  Resources  Evaluation  of  the  Proposed  491  Bayshore 
Boulevard/196  Loomis  Street  Home  Depot  Project,  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  California,"  May 
2002,  page  37. 

Response  #138 

Please  refer  to  Response  to  Comment  #132  and  Section  E  -  Staff-Initiated  Text  Changes  and 
Errata,  pages  C&R.365  through  C&R.368,  for  the  revised  Cultural  Resources  Mitigation 
Measure.  This  measure  replaces  the  mitigation  measure  found  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  15,  16, 
109,  110,  and  in  the  Initial  Study  on  page  A-25,  Appendix  A  of  the  DEIR,  and  requires  the 
project  sponsor  to  retain  an  archeological  consultant  who  would  develop  and  implement  an 
archeological  testing  program  specified  in  the  mitigation  measure.  This  measure  corresponds 
to  the  recommendations  made  by  the  cultural  resource  consultant. 


Improvement  Measures 

Transportation 

Comment  #139 

"Additional  mitigation  measures  and  a  traffic  improvement  program  should  be  included."  (Charles 
M.  Abrams,  President,  Abrams  Associates) 

"I  think  we  need  to  look  at  the  entire  report,  and  especially  for  traffic  mitigation.  That's  a  very 
important  area  that  has  to  be  addressed."  (Michael  Antonini,  Planning  Commissioner) 

"Page  11,  D.  Mitigation  Measures,  indicates  project's  contribution  to  the  adverse  conditions  on 
Mission/Cortland  would  be  significant  by  the  year  2015,  but  doesn't  discuss  how  the  project  sponsor 
will  address  these  improvements  if  the  City  will  not  or  cannot  implement  the  improvements." 
(Shelley  Bradford  Bell,  Planning  Commission  President,  written  comments) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.309 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 

"Improvement  conditions  to  the  project  as  identified  on  page  110  are  inadequate  and  merit  further 
discussion.  Additional  improvement  measures  may  be  necessary  to  address  traffic,  including 
improvement  of  additional  intersections  such  as  Oakdale/Loomis  where  truck  traffic  will  access  the 
truck  entry  and  at  Boutwell/Loomis  which  may  be  another  access  direction. 

"The  project  sponsor  indicates  the  project  will  have  an  adverse  effect  on  traffic  by  year  2015,  but 
doesn't  indicate  the  project  sponsor's  commitment  to  funding  improvement  conditions.  Project 
sponsor  assumes  the  cost  of  future  improvements  will  not  be  borne  by  the  project  sponsor,  but  by  the 
City.  Improvement  conditions  should  discuss  how  the  project  sponsor  will  address  these 
improvements  if  the  City  will  not  or  cannot  implement  the  improvements.  (Shelley  Bradford  Bell, 
Planning  Commission  President,  written  comments  and  oral  testimony) 

Response  #139 

As  noted  in  the  DEIR  on  page  106,  the  proposed  mitigation  measure  at  the  intersection  of 
Mission/Cortland  would  be  implemented  by  a  public  agency.  DPT  has  confirmed  that  the 
proposed  measure  is  feasible  and  has  requested  that  the  full  cost  of  this  measure  be  paid  by 
the  project  sponsor.60  The  project  sponsor  has  agreed  to  pay  the  full  cost  of  this  measure. 
The  following  sentence  is  added  to  the  end  of  the  first  paragraph  on  page  1 06  in  the  DEIR: 
"The  project  sponsor  would  pay  for  the  costs  of  this  measure." 

As  discussed  in  the  Transportation  Study,  the  project  sponsor  would  be  responsible  for 
funding  the  study,  design,  construction,  and  installation  of  all  improvements  to  the 
intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland  (see  page  110  in  the  DEIR).  Since  the  project  was  not 
considered  to  have  a  significant  contribution  to  the  poor  2015  Cumulative  intersection 
operating  conditions  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Silver,  the  project  sponsor  would  not  be 
responsible  for  funding  any  improvements  to  the  intersection  (see  page  1 1 1  in  the  DEIR). 
However,  the  project  sponsor  has  agreed  to  pay  for  the  improvement  measure  at  this 
intersection. 

The  Planning  Commission,  however,  may  recommend  additional  improvement  measures  as 
conditions  of  approval  for  the  project. 

The  Transportation  Study  prepared  by  Wilbur  Smith  Associates  did  not  identify  any 
additional  improvement  measures  that  are  warranted  by  or  are  required  for  the  project. 
Under  Existing  plus  Project  conditions,  the  project  would  not  result  in  impacts  to  the  study 


Letter  from  Bond  Yee,  Director  of  the  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  to  Tim  Erney,  Wilbur  Smith  Associates, 
September  7,  2004,  op  cit. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.310 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 

intersections  of  Oakdale/Loomis  or  Industrial/Loomis/Boutwell,  including  from  trucks.  At 
these  locations,  vehicles  and  trucks  destined  to  and  from  the  project  would  not  significantly 
impact  intersection  operations.  In  addition,  although  the  project  would  have  a  significant 
contribution  to  the  poor  2015  Cumulative  operating  conditions  at  the  analysis  freeway  on- 
ramps,  no  feasible  mitigation  measures  have  been  identified.  As  such,  the  project's 
significant  contribution  would  be  considered  a  significant  unavoidable  impact. 

As  discussed  on  page  70  of  the  DEIR,  the  proposed  parking  garage  would  be  able  to 
accommodate  the  peak  parking  demand  on  most  weekdays  and  weekends.  Although  there 
may  be  times  when  there  would  be  a  parking  shortfall  (due  to  the  effective  capacity  of  the 
parking  garage  and  on  peak  days),  there  are  currently  sufficient  on-street  parking  spaces 
available  in  the  nearby  project  vicinity.  Overall,  the  project  would  not  be  considered  to  have 
a  significant  parking  impact. 

Comment  #140 

"In  regards  to  the  traffic  improvements  (see  illus.  p.  63  [in  the  DEIR]),  I  would  suggest  an  entrance 
to  the  Home  Depot  from  Bayshore  Boulevard  without  an  exit  onto  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  exit 
from  Home  Depot  should  be  on  Waterloo  Street,  with  a  left  turn  only.  This  would  direct  traffic  away 
from  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  create  a  possibility  whereby  cars  turning  left  on  Waterloo  would  have 
an  option  to  subsequently  turn  left  towards  Oakdale,  or  right  towards  Industrial.  These  are  two 
thoroughfares  which  are  quite  capable  of  handling  the  volume  of  traffic  that  will  be  anticipated. 
Having  traffic  exit  at  Waterloo  would  also  ameliorate  the  concerns  of  the  Bernal  Heights  community 
by  preventing  cars  from  directly  exiting  Home  Depot  onto  Cortland.  Also,  by  having  an  entrance 
only  at  Bayshore  Boulevard,  you  will  be  able  to  create  a  left  turn  in  two  lanes,  with  the  middle  lane 
giving  drivers  the  option  of  turning  left  or  continuing  on  through  Bayshore.  This  would  reduce  the 
queue  lines  turning  left  into  the  Home  Depot.  Drivers  would  also  retain  the  ability  to  drive  into  the 
Home  Depot  parking  lot  directly  from  Cortland,  using  more  than  one  lane,  also  reducing  queue  lines 
on  Cortland. 

"I  don't  know  if  my  suggestions  are  far  too  late  to  give  impact,  but  regardless,  I  do  believe  the 
proposed  setup  as  currently  written  in  the  draft  report  does  not  maximize  the  use  of  available  streets 
in  limiting  traffic  backups.  I  have  only  skimmed  the  impact  report,  but  feel  this  issue  warranted 
immediate  attention."  (Jim  Rodriguez,  sf-pt.com) 

Response  #140 

Additional  analysis  was  conducted  for  different  access  plans  for  the  project  and  is 
documented  in  Response  to  Comment  #74.  One  of  the  plans  analyzed  included  the  primary 
entrance  at  Bayshore/Cortland  and  the  primary  exit  at  Loomis  Street  (referred  to  as  Option 
A).   The  difference  between  this  plan  and  the  one  proposed  by  the  commenter  is  that  Option 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.311 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 

A  only  provides  a  single  left-turn  pocket  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  into  the 
project  site  instead  of  a  left-turn  and  a  shared  left-through  lane,  and  an  exit  onto  Loomis 
Street  instead  of  Waterloo  Street.  Based  on  the  results  of  the  analyses  of  the  alternatives,  a 
second  left-turn  lane  would  not  be  necessary  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  into  the 
project  site.  If  the  exit  driveway  was  located  on  Waterloo  Street,  vehicles  exiting  the  site 
would  still  need  to  make  a  right-turn  or  left-turn  onto  Loomis  Street.  Also,  Waterloo  Street  is 
relatively  narrow,  and  therefore  cannot  accommodate  the  substantial  increase  in  traffic 
volumes.  Providing  access  directly  to  Loomis  Street  would  be  preferable.  As  discussed  in 
Response  to  Comment  #74,  the  potential  Option  A  would  not  result  in  any  new  significant 
impacts  over  those  identified  with  the  proposed  project. 

Comment  #141 

"Page  16  [DEIR]:  The  DEIR  does  not  evaluate  potential  environmental  impacts  of  the  proposed 
transportation  'improvements'  that  have  been  incorporated  into  the  project.  The  DEIR  proposes 
improvements  to  Bayshore  Boulevard  that  would  reduce  the  center  separation  and  shorten  the  bus 
pull-out.  Reducing  the  center  separation  could  increase  risk  of  vehicle  collisions.  The  reduced  bus 
pull-out  would  increase  hazards  for  transit  riders  (especially  the  disabled)  since  it  would  encourage 
bus  drivers  to  load  and  unload  passengers  from  a  traffic  lane,  rather  than  at  the  curb.  Furthermore,  it 
appears  that  the  shortening  of  the  bus  stop  is  inconsistent  with  policies  11.1  and  14.3  in  the 
'Transportation  Element'  of  the  San  Francisco  General  Plan  that  prioritize  transit."1  (Eve  Bach,  Arc 
Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal 
Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  Transportation  Element  Policy  11.1:  Maintain  and  improve  the  Transit  Preferential  Streets  program  to 
make  transit  more  attractive  and  viable  as  a  primary  means  of  travel.  The  Transit  Preferential  Streets 
program  includes  measures  to  improve  transit  vehicle  speeds  and  to  minimize  the  restraints  of  traffic  on 
transit  operations. 

Response  #141 

The  San  Francisco  General  Plan  classifies  Bayshore  Boulevard  as  a  Secondary  Transit 
Street;  Cortland  Avenue  is  not  classified.  Under  the  General  Plan,  secondary  Transit  Streets 
are  considered  to  have  medium  transit  ridership  and  low-  to  medium-frequency  of  service,  or 
medium  frequency  of  service  and  low-  to  medium-transit  ridership,  or  connect  two  or  more 
major  destinations.  For  these  types  of  streets,  recommended  treatments  should  be  low-cost 
and  geared  to  solving  a  specific  transit  problem. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street  C&R.312 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 


To  improve  operations  and  safety  at  the  eastbound  approach  of  Cortland  Avenue  to  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  it  was  proposed  by  the  project  sponsor  that  the  approach  be  restriped  to  provide 
two  travel  lanes.  However,  this  change  would  require  the  centerline  between  the  eastbound 
and  westbound  directions  to  be  located  about  4  feet  to  the  north,  so  that  24  feet  would  be 
provided  in  the  eastbound  direction  and  16  feet  would  be  provided  in  the  westbound  direction 
(as  noted  on  pages  16  and  1 10  in  the  DEIR).  In  addition,  the  Muni  bus  stop  along  eastbound 
Cortland  Avenue  would  be  shortened.  As  noted  in  Response  to  Comment  #63,  DPT  has 
determined  that  this  improvement  measure  would  not  be  feasible;61  therefore,  the 
improvement  measure  would  not  be  incorporated  into  the  proposed  project,  and  no  changes 
to  the  configuration  of  Cortland  Avenue  would  be  implemented. 

On  pages  16  and  110  in  the  DEIR,  the  first  transportation  improvement  measure  is 
deleted,  and  the  second  sentence  of  the  improvement  measure  introductory  paragraph 
is  revised:  "These  The  following  measure  would  be  implemented  by  the  Department 
of  Parking  and  Traffic  and  the  cost  of  the  first  measure  would  be  borne  by  the  project 
sponsor." 


Refer  to  Response  to  Comment  #63  regarding  potential  improvements  at  the  intersection  of 
Bayshore/Cortland. 


Comment  #142 

'"Improvements'  Please  show  on  graphic  renderings  with  dimensions  all  of  the  proposed 
modifications  to  traffic  lanes,  bulbs,  changes  to  Muni  stops,  changes  to  pedestrian  islands,  and  other 
similar  changes.  Changes  to  timing  of  signals  also  needs  to  be  shown,  so  that  the  time  of  various 
phases  -  and  the  number  of  cars  who  can  get  through  turns  on  turn  phases  -  can  be  understood.  Do  a 
'before'  and  'after'  to  make  it  more  accessible.  Either  on  that  graphic,  or  on  a  separate  graphic,  show 
traffic  volumes  at  peak  periods,  separating  out  expected  turn  lanes.  Show  the  anticipated  volume  of 
pedestrian  traffic  across  those  lanes  -  both  in  the  street  and  at  all  access  points  for  Home  Depot. 

"Will  it  still  be  possible  for  pedestrians  to  stand  on  the  mini-traffic  island  in  Bayshore?  What  about 
parents  with  small  children?  Seniors?  Disabled  persons?"  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on 
behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 


61  Ibid. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.313  July  28,2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 

Response  #142 

The  improvements  identified  as  part  of  the  project  are  shown  on  Figure  2  -  Site  Plan  in  the 
DEIR  on  page  28.  The  specific  engineering  dimensions  of  the  improvements  have  not  been 
developed  and  will  be  coordinated  with  the  Department  of  Public  Works,  DPT,  the  Planning 
Department,  Muni,  ISCOTT,  and  other  appropriate  City  agencies.  The  actual  timing  of  the 
signal  phases  will  be  formalized  pending  additional  analysis  by  DPT  to  ensure  the 
appropriate  coordination  and  synchronization  with  the  adjacent  inter-sections.  Any  potential 
alterations  to  the  anticipated  lane  striping,  roadway  configuration,  and  signal  timing  would 
likely  be  minor  and  not  affect  the  results  of  the  transportation  analysis  in  the  DEIR. 

With  the  establishment  of  the  new  left-turn  pocket  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  to 
the  Bayshore/Cortland  driveway,  the  existing  pedestrian  refuge  island,  located  in  the  median 
on  the  north  side  of  the  intersection,  would  be  eliminated  (note  that  the  island  on  the  south 
side  of  the  intersection  would  remain).  In  addition,  there  would  be  a  substantial  increase  in 
the  number  of  vehicles  crossing  the  crosswalks,  which  would  increase  the  potential  for 
conflicts  between  vehicles  and  pedestrians.  The  new  traffic  signal  at  Bayshore/Cortland 
would  be  designed  to  allot  sufficient  pedestrian  signal  time  to  allow  safe  crossing  of 
Bayshore  Boulevard.  Since  the  Cortland  Avenue  approach  and  the  proposed  project  garage 
exit  approach  would  have  separate  phases,  the  amount  of  crossing  time  would  substantially 
increase  (from  about  30  seconds  currently  to  about  43  seconds  during  the  weekday  PM  peak 
hour  and  61  seconds  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour).  As  a  result,  pedestrians  would 
be  able  to  safely  cross  Bayshore  Boulevard  even  though  the  island  at  the  north  side  crosswalk 
would  be  eliminated.  It  should  be  noted  that  pedestrian  WALK/DON'T  WALK  signals  with 
countdown  indicators,  which  indicate  when  it  is  safe  for  pedestrians  to  cross  both  Bayshore 
and  Cortland  Streets,  have  recently  been  installed  at  this  intersection.  Overall,  pedestrian 
conditions  with  the  proposed  project  would  not  substantially  worsen,  since  the  increase  of 
potential  conflicts  and  the  elimination  of  the  refuge  island  would  be  offset  by  the  longer 
pedestrian  crossing  times. 

In  addition,  it  may  be  possible  to  construct  sidewalk  bulbs  at  several  of  the  corners,  which 
would  further  improve  pedestrian  conditions.  The  purpose  of  these  bulbs  would  be  to  shorten 
the  distance  pedestrians  would  need  to  cross  and  to  enhance  the  visibility  of  pedestrians, 
which  would  further  improve  pedestrian  conditions.  The  project  sponsor  would  work  with 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.314 


July  28, 2005 


VTI.  Comments  and  Responses 

MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 

DPT  regarding  the  potential  installation  of  sidewalk  bulbs  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/ 
Cortland.  It  should  be  noted,  however,  that  installations  of  sidewalk  bulbs  may  conflict  with 
the  provision  of  the  proposed  new  bicycle  lanes. 

Also  see  Response  to  Comment  #87  for  additional  discussion  on  pedestrian  conditions  at  the 
intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland. 

Comment  #143 

"The  scope  of  mitigation  measures  set  forth  in  the  Draft  EIR  is  appropriate  for  the  project.  As  you 
know,  any  prescribed  mitigation  measures  must  be  both  reasonably  linked  to  the  impacts  of  the 
project,  and  'roughly  proportional'  to  the  impacts  of  the  project  (see  CEQA  Guidelines  § 
15126.4(a)(4)).  The  Draft  EIR  sets  forth  a  comprehensive  list  of  the  project's  impacts,  and  then 
provides  mitigation  measures  that  accurately  and  adequately  address  those  impacts. 

"Some  comments  to  the  Draft  EIR  claim  that  the  mitigation  measures  are  not  sufficient,  primarily 
with  respect  to  the  improvements  required  to  mitigate  traffic  impacts.  In  fact,  many  traffic 
improvements  were  proposed  as  part  of  the  project  itself,  including  pedestrian  improvements  and  the 
addition  of  two  turn  lanes  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore  and  Cortland  (see  pages  62-65  of  the  Draft 
EIR).  The  incorporation  of  these  improvements  rendered  the  project  essentially  'self-mitigating,' 
with  the  result  that  the  project  will  have  minimal  traffic  impacts.  Also,  although  not  required  to 
alleviate  significant  project  impacts,  Home  Depot  would  fund  the  traffic  improvement  measure 
suggested  in  the  Draft  EIR  (page  1 10)  for  improving  the  eastbound  approach  of  Cortland  Avenue  to 
Bayshore  Boulevard.1"  (Anna  C.  Shimko,  Attorney  at  Law  for  Home  Depot) 

1  As  the  Draft  EIR  indicates  (page  1 10),  the  project  would  not  significantly  contribute  to  cumulative 
conditions  at  the  Bayshore/Silver  intersection,  so  cannot  be  required  to  fund  the  improvement  measure  for 
that  intersection. 


Response  #143 

The  comment  is  noted.  No  further  response  is  required.  The  project  sponsor  has  agreed  to 
implement  all  the  mitigation  measures  listed  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  106  to  111,  including 
funding  the  study,  design,  construction,  and  installation  of  all  improvements  to  the 
intersection  of  Bayshore/Cortland.  It  should  be  noted,  however,  that  DPT  determined  that  the 
proposed  restriping  of  the  eastbound  approach  would  not  be  feasible;  as  such,  this  element 
will  not  be  implemented  (see  Response  to  Comment  #63  for  discussion).  In  addition,  the 
project  sponsor  has  committed  to  fund  the  implementation  of  the  signal  timing  changes  at  the 
intersection  of  Mission/Cortland,  as  needed  to  improve  future  2015  Cumulative  intersection 
operations,  and  to  pay  for  the  improvement  measure  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore/Silver 
(even  though  the  proposed  project  would  not  result  in  a  significant  impact  at  this  location). 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street  C&R.3 15 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 


Comment  #144 

"I  work  as  the  organizing  coordinator  of  the  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center.  When  we  and 
others  requested  the  Planning  Commission  require  Home  Depot  to  submit  to  a  full  environmental 
impact  review,  we  had  hoped  that  the  resulting  EIR  would  outline  the  very  significant  impacts  of  the 
project,  and  suggest  a  suitable  mitigation  program.  Unfortunately,  the  draft  EIR  published  in  March 
of  this  year  does  not  come  close  to  doing  this,  and  if  it  were  up  before  you  today  I  would  ask  you  to 
reject  it.  The  draft  EIR  on  Home  Depot  is  a  Trojan  horse.  It  states  the  project  will  have  a  minimum 
of  impact,  and  offers  to  pay  for  a  minimum  mitigation  program.  Hidden  inside  are  the  real  impacts 
and  real  costs  of  mitigating.  The  question  the  Commission  must  ask  is  this:  If  Home  Depot  is 
allowed  to  avoid  paying  to  mitigate  its  impacts,  who  will?  The  answer  is  the  City  of  San  Francisco 
and  the  taxpayers."  (Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing 
Coordinator) 

Response  #144 

The  DEIR  was  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  CEQA  regulations  and  guidelines  which 
require  the  identification  of  potentially  significant  impacts  and  mitigation  measures  that 
would  lessen  or  minimize  the  impacts.  The  project  sponsor  would  bear  the  cost  of  those 
mitigation  measures  over  which  they  have  direct  responsibility  for  implementation  on  the 
project  site.  For  those  measures  for  which  the  City  has  responsibility  for  implementation 
such  as  the  transportation  improvements  on  Bayshore  Boulevard,  the  Department  of  Public 
Works  and  the  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  would  determine  the  amount  of  additional 
costs  to  the  project  sponsor. 

Comment  #145 

"I  am  a  traffic  engineer,  a  transportation  planning  consultant  -  and  working  with  Cole  Hardware  and 
Sue  Hestor  on  this  project.  I'm  also  on  the  City  Council,  and  have  been  on  the  Planning  Commission 
in  Walnut  Creek.  I  have  reviewed  the  EIR  very  thoroughly,  in  addition  to  all  the  traffic  studies  that 
accompany  it,  and  I  must  admit  that  what  really  struck  me  the  most  when  I  looked  at  the  final  result 
of  this  was  the  mitigation  measures  that  are  being  put  on  Home  Depot's  part  of  this  project.  There 
are  three  mitigation  measures  mentioned  in  the  report.  One  is  to  change  the  signal  timing  at  Cortland 
and  Bayshore;  there's  another  one  to  remove  the  central  line  striping  over  six  feet  to  make  some  new 
lanes.  There  is  also  a  left-turn  arrow  would  that  be  put  in  at  Bayshore  and  Silver.  And  I  think  the 
extent  of  these  mitigations  don't  in  any  way  match  up  with  the  traffic  and  the  issues  that  are  being 
developed  as  a  part  of  this  Home  Depot.  This  project  will  generate,  as  has  been  said,  about  a 
thousand  vehicles  per  hour,  and  that's  typical  of  most  of  the  big-box  stores  that  are  in  that  range  of 
800  to  1200.  Consider  that  a  lane  of  traffic  on  the  freeway  carries  about  2,000  cars  per  hour,  so  this 
project  is  the  equivalent  of  adding  another  half  a  lane  of  traffic  on  the  freeway,  or  even  a  full  lane  of 
traffic  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Now  admittedly  it  is  not  all  in  the  same  place  at  the  same  time,  but 
the  overall  impact  is  of  that  magnitude.  The  City  of  San  Francisco  is  really,  I  think,  missing  the  boat 
on  this  area  when  it  comes  to  having  these  kinds  of  developers  having  to  pay  their  fair  share.  I  note 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.316 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 

the  City  does  have,  certainly,  the  intent  to  have  new  development  pay  its  fair  share  of  the  impacts 
that  they  create.  This  is  not  happening  with  this  project.  An  equivalent  project  in  some  of  the 
suburban  locations  would  have  traffic  impact  pay,  for  example,  that  might  be  $3,000  per  peak-hour 
trip  that  might  amount  to  $5  to  $8  million  towards  traffic  improvements  that  go  in  to  support  this 
project. 

"As  a  project  that  generates  12,000  vehicles  per  day,  with  about  1,200  vehicles  during  the  peak  hour, 
it  is  simply  amazing  how  little  traffic  impact  will  be  created.  The  only  mitigations  that  have  been 
proscribed  are  some  very  minor  traffic  signal  adjustments,  and  some  pavement  marking  changes.  In 
fact,  these  mitigations  should  be  routinely  taken  care  of  by  the  City  Public  Works  staff.  Given  the 
impact  of  this  project,  the  City  should  have  Home  Depot  be  responsible  for  improving  the  traffic 
conditions  on  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  bringing  traffic  equipment  up  to  current  standards.  This 
means  modern  traffic  signals,  improved  turn  lanes  at  signalized  intersections,  and  improved 
pedestrian  controls  at  each  of  the  signalized  intersections."  (Charles  M.  Abrams,  President,  Abrams 
Associates) 

Response  #145 

As  noted  in  Responses  to  Comments  #139  and  #144,  the  project  sponsor  would  pay  for  all 
transportation  mitigations  and  the  improvement  measure  proposed  as  part  of  the  project.  The 
Planning  Commission  could  require  additional  mitigation  measures  for  project-generated 
impacts.  The  transportation  analysis  in  the  DEIR  examined  the  proposed  project's 
contribution  to  the  levels  of  service  at  key  intersections  near  the  project  site  and  no  adverse 
significant  impacts  were  identified  that  could  not  be  mitigated.  The  impacts  were  assessed 
and  mitigation  measures  proposed  for  all  identified  impacts,  including  the  commenter's 
suggested  measures  of  more  modern  traffic  signals,  improved  turn  lanes  at  signalized 
intersections,  and  improved  pedestrian  controls  at  the  signalized  intersections. 

Comment  #146 

"I  don't  think  that  Home  Depot's  mitigation  requirements  are  strong  enough.  I  think  that  they  should 
pay  for  them,  not  the  City.  If  this  is  a  transit-first  commission,  then  I  think  you  should  really  be 
representing  people  such  as  myself,  who  are  trying  to  reduce  air  pollution  by  taking  bicycles  and 
utilizing  Muni.  SamTrans  will  also  be  affected."  (Rachel  Kesel,  Resident) 

Response  #146 

The  cost  for  mitigation  measures  listed  in  the  DEIR  related  to  air  quality,  construction, 
hazardous  materials,  archeological  cultural  resources,  and  transportation  impacts  would  be 
largely  borne  by  the  project  sponsor.  As  noted  previously,  the  City  would  be  responsible  for 
implementing  the  mitigation  measure  at  the  intersection  of  Mission/Cortland,  however  the 
project  sponsor  would  bear  the  full  cost  of  this  measure. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.317 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

MITIGATION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  MEASURES 

The  project  is  required  to  provide  26  bicycle  spaces,  per  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Code, 
and  would  provide  28  bicycle  spaces,  to  be  located  on  the  ground  floor  of  the  parking  garage. 
In  addition,  the  project  would  also  provide  shower  and  locker  facilities  for  employees.  These 
facilities  would  serve  to  encourage  and  accommodate  bicycling  and  walking  to  and  from 
work  by  employees. 

According  to  the  project  sponsor,  transit  subsidies  are  not  one  of  the  benefits  provided  to 
employees  at  Home  Depot.  However,  the  project  sponsor  would  consider  other  means  to 
encourage  the  use  of  alternate  modes  of  travel,  including  reserving  preferred  parking  spaces 
on  the  upper  levels  for  employees  who  carpool. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.318 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

ALTERNATIVES 


ALTERNATIVES 

Comment  #147 

"Pages  115-127:  The  DEIR  does  not  evaluate  the  alternatives  against  the  City's  objectives  for 
approval.  See  comment  [#12  of  this  document]."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara 
Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 
Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #147 

The  objectives  listed  in  the  DEIR  on  page  25  are  the  project  sponsor's  objectives.  The 
alternatives  were  selected  in  accordance  with  CEQA  requirements  (CEQA  Guidelines, 
Section  15126.6(a))  to  analyze  reasonable  alternatives  that  would  minimize  the  potential 
significant  impacts.  As  stated  in  Section  15126.6(a),  the  lead  agency  determines  the  range  of 
alternatives  to  study.  Alternatives  analyzed  in  the  DEIR  are  generally  selected  on  the  basis 
that  they  could  attain  most  of  the  basic  project  objectives,  but  they  need  not  be  able  to  attain 
all  of  them.  The  analysis  in  an  EIR  should  focus  on  alternatives  that  can  eliminate  or  reduce 
significant  environmental  impacts  even  if  they  would  impede  attainment  of  project  objectives 
to  some  degree  or  be  more  costly  (CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15126.6(b)).  Alternatives  in  the 
DEIR  were  identified  on  the  basis  of  having  fewer  impacts  than  the  proposed  project.  As 
long  as  the  project  proposed  is  a  home  improvement  store,  the  only  alternatives  that  could 
reduce  its  environmental  impacts  are  variations  in  size  and  configuration,  and  these  variations 
are  discussed  in  the  Alternatives  section  of  the  DEIR.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  feasibility 
of  alternatives,  as  well  as  mitigation  measures,  is  determined  by  the  lead  agency.  (Also  see 
Response  to  Comment  #12  for  CEQA  guidelines  regarding  the  aegis  of  project  objectives.) 

Comment  #148 

"Unclear  what  base  data  are  ~  3,000  customers  a  day  (seems  light)  or  some  other  figures  from 
Traffic  Study."  (Chris  Witteman,  Resident) 

Response  #148 

The  customer  estimates  for  the  various  alternatives  were  extrapolated  from  the  data 
developed  for  the  proposed  project.  The  Transportation  Study  estimated  the  amount  of 
vehicle-trips  generated  by  the  project  during  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  peak 


2001 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.319 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

ALTERNATIVES 

hours  based  upon  project  size  (as  is  customary  for  traffic  analyses),  and  did  not  rely  on  daily 
customer  estimates. 


Comment  #149 

"Page  17  [of  the  DEIR]:  The  sources  of  information  on  the  alternatives  are  not  documented  and 
information  gaps  do  not  fully  allow  for  a  thorough  comparison.  The  table  below  [Refer  to  Appendix 
E  of  this  document,  Eve  Bach,  Barbara  Kyle,  and  Ron  Morgan  Letter  dated  July  24,  2003]  shows 
information  provided  by  the  EIR,  including  the  Transportation  Study.  No  sources  are  cited  for  the 
estimates  of  trip  generation  or  people  brought  to  the  site.  In  addition,  there  are  gaps  in  information 
about  Alternative  B  (vehicle  trips,  parking  spaces,  employees  and  shoppers),  Alternative  C 
(employees  and  shoppers),  and  Alternative  E  (vehicle  trips).  Since  the  EIR  concludes  that  each  of 
these  has  fewer  unmitigable  impacts,  it  would  appear  prudent  for  the  analysis  to  provide  full 
information  on  each  so  that  assumptions  can  be  reviewed. 

"The  most  troubling  data  gap  is  the  missing  information  about  vehicle  trips  per  day  for  the  project 
and  for  Alternative  E.  The  only  alternatives  with  information  about  daily  vehicle  trips  are  C  and  D 
(with  no  indication  of  the  source  of  these  numbers),  and  for  both  the  peak  hour  rate  represents  about 
8  percent  and  12  percent  of  the  daily  rates  for  weekdays  and  weekends,  respectively.  These  ratios 
appear  to  be  high,  given  the  long  hours  that  Home  Depot  is  open  for  business  (with  multiple  shifts) 
and  the  likelihood  that  a  significant  proportion  of  its  customers  are  contractors  who  would  be  most 
likely  to  arrive  during  business  hours,  especially  in  the  morning.  The  EIR  needs  to  make  the  data 
underlying  these  estimates  available  to  the  public  to  review  with  time  to  comment. 

"Another  problem  suggested  by  the  data  is  an  apparent  undercounting  of  employees,  achieved 
apparently  be  limiting  the  total  to  permanent  employees.  News  releases  about  Home  Depot  stores 
elsewhere  in  the  nation  suggest  that  the  company  typically  employs  many  more  workers  per  square 
foot  than  the  75-100  shown  for  the  San  Francisco  project.  For  example,  the  84,000-square  foot  new 
store  (with  a  19,000-square  foot  garden  center)  planned  for  Sault  Ste.  Marie  in  Manitoba  plans  on 
hiring  164  full-time  equivalent  workers.1  The  DEIR  must  explain  how  the  number  is  calculated  of 
employed  persons  -  both  full-time  and  part-time  -  on  the  site  on  an  average  daily  basis. 

"Will  Proposed  Alternatives  Really  Bring  Less  Traffic?  The  DEIR  discusses  two  slightly  smaller 
alternatives  -  a  107,400-square  foot  store  and  a  140,000-square  foot  store  -  suggesting  that  this  slight 
reduction  in  size  would  reduce  the  traffic  enough  to  avoid  some  of  the  traffic  problems  of  the  larger 
store.  This  is  an  underhanded  manipulation  of  some  basic  formulas  used  to  project  vehicle  trips.  It 
suggests  that  some  number  of  people  considering  shopping  there  will  decide  not  to  go  because  it  is 
not  big  enough.  The  City  must  find  a  way  to  estimate  what  basic  threshold  of  demand  will  exist  for 
any  Home  Depot  of  any  size."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No 
Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community 
Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  The  Sault  Star,  "Home  Depot  hopes  to  nail  down  deal  in  Sault,"  April  25,  2003. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.320 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

ALTERNATIVES 


Response  #149 

Pages  116  through  127  of  the  DEIR  present  the  results  of  the  alternatives  analysis  to  the 
proposed  project.  Five  alternatives  were  assessed  for  transportation  impacts:  Alternative  A  - 
no  project;  Alternative  B  -  variant  no  project,  which  includes  the  reuse  of  the  existing 
buildings  on  the  site,  providing  about  107,400  sq.ft.  of  retail  space;  Alternative  C  -  a  60,000- 
square-foot  Home  Depot  store;  Alternative  D  -  a  107,400-square-foot  Home  Depot  store;  and 
Alternative  E  -  a  140,000-square-foot  Home  Depot  store.  The  rationale  on  how  the 
alternatives  were  developed  is  described  in  the  DEIR  on  page  115. 

For  each  of  the  alternatives  (except  the  No  Project  alternative),  the  travel  demand  associated 
with  the  project,  in  terms  of  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hour 
vehicle-trip  generation,  was  determined.. 

Because  Alternative  A  is  the  No  Project  alternative,  no  additional  transportation  assessment 
was  conducted.  There  would  not  be  any  new  vehicle  trips  traveling  to  and  from  the  project 
site,  and  therefore  no  impacts  related  to  this  alternative  were  discussed. 

Alternative  B  assumed  reuse  of  the  existing  buildings  on  the  project  site  by  general  retail 
uses,  other  than  a  Home  Depot  store.  As  such,  different  trip  generation  and  mode  split  rates 
were  used  to  determine  the  travel  demand  of  the  alternative,  instead  of  the  rates  developed  for 
the  proposed  project.  The  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  has  established  standard  trip 
generation  rates  for  retail  establishments  and  mode  split  rates  for  retail  uses  in  the 
southeastern  quarter  of  the  city  (as  documented  in  the  Transportation  Impact  Analysis 
Guidelines  for  Environmental  Review  —  October  2002).  The  trip  generation  rates  in  the 
Transportation  Guidelines  include  both  employee  and  visitor  trips.  Since  the  Transportation 
Guidelines  do  not  provide  trip  generation  rates  for  weekends,  the  ratio  between  weekday  and 
weekend  rates  for  Alternative  B  were  approximated  from  the  ITE  Trip  Generation  manual 
for  the  use  most  similar  to  that  proposed  for  Alternative  B  (shopping  centers  -  land  use 
#820).  It  should  be  noted  that  the  mode  split  rates  from  the  Transportation  Impact  Analysis 
Guidelines  for  Environmental  Review  were  adjusted  to  shift  about  five  percent  of  the  visitor 
trips  from  transit  to  autos,  to  account  for  the  reduced  transit  service  available  at  the  project 
site,  as  compared  to  the  rest  of  this  portion  of  the  City  (Superdistrict  3,  which  is  the  southeast 
quadrant  of  the  City  and  includes  the  Potrero  Hill,  Bayview  Hunters  Point,  Little  Hollywood, 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.321 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

ALTERNATIVES 

Visitacion  Valley,  Excelsior,  Bernal  Heights,  Mission,  Castro,  Noe  Valley,  Twin  Peaks, 
Diamond  Heights,  and  Glen  Park  neighborhoods).  Most  residents  of  Superdistrict  3  live  in 
the  vicinity  of  the  major  transit  corridors  along  Church/Valencia/Mission  Streets  or  Third 
Street.  Because  the  transit  service  near  the  project  site  is  less  than  along  these  areas,  it  has 
been  assumed  that  the  transit  mode  split  would  be  lower. 

Alternative  C,  Alternative  D,  and  Alternative  E  would  all  include  a  Home  Depot  store,  but 
with  different  total  square  footages.  As  a  result,  it  was  assumed  that  each  alternative  would 
have  the  same  vehicle-trip  generation  rate  as  the  proposed  project  (5.54  trips  per  1,000  square 
feet  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  8.28  trips  per  1,000  square  feet  during  the 
Saturday  midday  peak  hour),  since  they  would  all  contain  the  same  land  use,  but  varying 
number  of  trips  generated  due  to  variations  in  square  footages.  For  the  proposed  project  and 
the  alternatives,  the  trip  generation  rate  for  the  project  was  based  on  actual  driveway  counts 
conducted  at  similar  Home  Depot  stores  throughout  California,  as  described  in  the  DEIR  on 
page  57.  Since  these  rates  were  based  on  the  actual  number  of  vehicles  entering  and  exiting 
Home  Depot  stores,  they  account  for  all  employee  and  customer  trips.  It  was  assumed  that 
the  employee  and  customer  profile  of  the  project  would  be  similar  to  the  other  stores 
surveyed. 

For  most  land  uses,  the  travel  demand  is  based  on  a  trip  generation  rate,  which  represents  the 
number  of  trips  per  1,000  square  feet  of  use.  In  general,  the  number  of  employees  and  the 
visitor  activity  at  an  establishment  are  directly  correlated  to  the  size  of  an  establishment.  As 
such,  it  was  assumed  that  Alternative  C,  Alternative  D,  and  Alternative  E  would  have  the 
same  trip  generation  rate  (number  of  trips  per  1,000  square  feet)  as  the  project. 

Since  the  Home  Depot  trips  rates  were  developed  for  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday 
peak  hours  only,  the  weekday  and  Saturday  daily  trips  were  derived  from  trip  generation 
rates  contained  in  the  ITE  Trip  Generation  manual  for  a  "Home  Improvement  Superstore" 
land  use  (#862).  From  this  data,  it  was  estimated  that  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  represents 
about  8.2  percent  of  weekday  daily  trips,  and  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  represents  about 
11.8  percent  of  Saturday  daily  trips. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.322 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

ALTERNATIVES 

Table  C&R.20  below  presents  the  number  of  vehicle-trips  generated  by  each  alternative  for 
the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hours. 


Table  C&R.20 
Comparison  of  Trip  Generation 
for  Proposed  Project  and  Project  Alternatives 

Weekday 

Saturday 

Scenario 

Size 

Daily 
Vehicle-Trips 

PM  Peak  Hour 
Vehicle-Trips 

Daily 
Vehicle-Trips 

PM  Peak  Hour 
Vehicle-Trips 

Proposed 
Project 

153,100  sqft 

10,360 

848 

10,718 

1,268 

Alternative  B 

107,400  sqft 

6,136 

552 

8,222 

789 

Alternative  C 

60,000  sqft 

4,059 

332 

4,202 

497 

Alternative  D 

107,400  sqft 

7,266 

595 

7,521 

890 

Alternative  E 

140,000  sqft 

9,480 

776 

9,796 

1,159 

Source:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  January  2004 


Alternative  B  would  generate  about  35  percent  fewer  vehicle-trips  than  the  proposed  project 
during  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hours.  Alternative  C,  Alternative  D,  and 
Alternative  E  would  generate  about  60  percent,  30  percent,  and  10  percent  fewer  vehicle-trips 
than  the  proposed  project  during  the  weekday  PM  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hours, 
respectively. 

Since  Alternative  B  would  not  contain  a  Home  Depot  store  but  a  general  retail  establishment, 
the  parking  supply  is  not  known.  However,  it  was  assumed  that  it  would  meet  the  San 
Francisco  Planning  Code  requirements  for  the  provision  of  off-street  parking,  which  would 
equal  about  347  spaces. 

Page  117  of  the  DEIR,  first  paragraph,  line  seven,  is  revised  to  read:  "It  is  assumed 
that  the  buildings  would  comply  with  building  codes  and  the  San  Francisco 
Planning  Code  requirement  for  the  provision  of  off-street  parking  (which  would 
equate  to  347  spaces)." 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.323 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

ALTERNATIVES 

The  parking  supply  associated  with  Alternative  C,  Alternative  D,  and  Alternative  E  was 
based  on  information  provided  by  the  project  sponsor  (350  spaces,  385  spaces,  and  500 
spaces,  respectively,  as  indicated  on  pages  121,  123,  and  125  of  the  DEIR),  and  was  based  on 
the  relative  size  of  each  store  in  order  to  meet  the  Planning  Code  requirement  for  off-street 
parking. 

The  DEIR  text  has  been  revised  to  clarify  the  trip  generation  and  parking  supply  information 
associated  with  the  project  alternatives. 

On  page  117,  the  second  paragraph,  fourth  line,  is  revised  to  include  the  total  daily 
vehicle  trips  generated  by  the  alternative  and  percentage  comparison  with  the 
proposed  project:  "This-Alternative  B  would  generate  about  approximately  6,136 
weekday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  552  PM  peak  hour  vehicle-trips;  in  the  weekday 
PM  peak  hour  and  approximately  8,222  Saturday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  789 
midday  peak  hour  vehicle-trips  in  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  compared  to 
proposed  project's  848  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trips  and  1,268  trips  in  the  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour  (about  a  35  percent  reduction  from  the  proposed  project)." 

On  page  122,  the  second  paragraph,  second  line  is  revised  to  clarify  the  peak  hour 
and  correct  the  percentage  comparison  with  the  proposed  project:  "The  Alternative  C 
would  generate  approximately  4,059  weekday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  332  PM  peak 
hour  vehicle-trips,  and  about  approximately  4,202  Saturday  daily  vehicle-trips  and 
497  midday  peak-hour  vehicle-trips,  compared  to  proposed  project's  848  weekday 
PM  peak  hour  vehicle  trips  and  1,268  vehicle  trips  in  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour 
(an  approximately  forty  60  percent  reduction  in  the  vehicle  trips  generated  by  from 
the  proposed  project). 

On  page  124,  the  first  paragraph,  third  line,  is  revised  to  clarify  the  peak  hour  and  the 
percentage  comparison  with  the  project  alternative:  "Alternative  D  would  generate 
approximately  7,266  weekday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  595  PM  peak  hour  vehicle- 
trips,  and  approximately  about  7,521  Saturday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  890  midday 
peak  hour  vehicle-trips  ,  compared  to  the  proposed  project's  848  weekday  PM  peak 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.324 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

ALTERNATIVES 


hour  vehicle  trips  and  1,268  vehicle  trips  in  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (about  a 
30  percent  reduction  from  the  proposed  project). 

On  page  126,  the  second  paragraph,  line  one,  is  revised  to  clarify  the  peak  hour  and 
the  percentage  comparison  with  the  proposed  project:  "Alternative  E  would  generate 
approximately  9,480  weekday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  776  PM  weekday  peak  hour 
vehicle-trips,  and  approximately  9,796  Saturday  daily  peak  hour  vehicle-trips  and 
about  1,159  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  vehicle-trips  ,  compared  to  the  proposed 
project's  848  weekday  PM  peak  hour  vehicle  trips  and  1,268  vehicle  trips  in  the 
Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (about  a  10  percent  reduction  from  the  proposed 
project)." 


Comment  #150 

"Page  18:  The  DEIR  incorrectly  claims  that  it  has  applied  a  trip  generation  rate  to  Alternative  B  that 
is  consistent  with  Planning  Department  Guidelines.1  To  justify  the  estimated  vehicle  trips  for 
Alternative  B,  the  footnote  states  it  is  'Based  on  an  estimate  of  13.5  person  trips  per  1,000  sq.  ft.  of 
retail  space  for  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  and  19.3  person  trips  per  1,000  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space  for 
Saturday  midday  per  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  Interim  Transportation  Impacts 
Analysis  Guidelines  for  Environmental  Review,  January  2000.' 

"However,  the  DEIR  converts  this  person-trip  estimate  to  peak-hour  vehicle-trips  with  the 
assumption  that  there  will  be  2.6  people  in  each  vehicle  -  a  number  that  seems  too  high  for  both  the 
weekday  and  weekend  peak. 

"The  person-trip  rate  calculated  for  Alternative  B  that  is  misrepresented  as  complying  with  Planning 
Department  Guidelines,  relies  on  an  overly  high  assumption  of  persons  per  auto,  considering  that  a 
high  proportion  of  the  trips,  especially  during  the  week,  will  be  made  by  a  single  person  -  often  a 
professional  contractor.  The  DEIR  then  applies  a  slightly  higher  trip  generation  rate  to  the  project 
and  the  other  alternatives,  creating  the  false  impression  that  a  trip  generation  rate  used  for  the  project 
and  those  alternatives  exceeds  the  Guidelines.  However,  if  a  reasonable,  but  still  high,  ratio  of 
persons  per  vehicle  is  applied  (e.g.,  1.75  on  weekdays,  2.00  on  weekends),  the  trip  rates  used  in  the 
DEIR  for  the  project  and  Alternatives  C,  D,  and  E  are  actually  lower  than  those  in  the  Guidelines." 
(Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron 
Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

1  DEIR,  footnote  2,  page  18. 
Response  #150 

Alternative  B  includes  the  development  of  a  107,400  sq.-ft.  retail  store  instead  of  a  Home 
Depot  store.  The  travel  demand  associated  with  Alternative  B  was  based  on  trip  generation 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.325 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

ALTERNATIVES 

and  mode  split  rates  provided  in  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department's  Interim 
Transportation  Impact  Analysis  Guidelines  for  Environmental  Review,  published  in  2000, 
which  states  that  general  retail  uses  have  a  trip  generation  rate  of  150  person-trips  per  1,000 
square  feet  on  a  weekday,  and  13.5  trips  per  1,000  square  feet  during  the  weekday  PM  peak 
hour.62  Since  the  Transportation  Guidelines  do  not  provide  trip  generation  rates  for 
weekends,  the  ratio  between  weekday  and  weekend  rates  (for  both  daily  and  peak  hour 
conditions)  was  estimated  from  the  ITE  Trip  Generation  manual  for  shopping  center  uses 
(land  use  #820),  which  would  be  the  closest  comparable  land  use  to  Alternative  B. 
According  to  ITE,  shopping  centers  have  about  34  percent  more  activity  on  a  Saturday  than 
on  a  weekday,  and  about  43  percent  more  activity  during  the  Saturday  weekday  peak  hour 
than  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour. 

Since  these  trip  generation  rates  are  person-trips  (and  not  vehicle-trips,  as  with  the  project), 
the  trips  were  assigned  to  the  various  travel  modes  (auto,  transit,  walk,  and  other)  using  the 
mode  split  rates  in  the  Transportation  Guidelines.  Although  the  Transportation  Guidelines 
include  different  mode  split  assumption  for  various  parts  of  the  City,  the  visitor  mode  split 
rates  for  the  southeast  quarter  (where  the  project  site  is  located)  were  adjusted  to  account  for 
the  reduced  transit  service  available  at  the  project  site  compared  to  the  rest  of  this  portion  of 
the  City.  Under  Alternative  B,  the  Transportation  Guidelines  estimated  that  about  71  percent 
of  employees  would  travel  via  private  automobile,  with  an  average  vehicle  occupancy  of  1 .28 
persons  per  vehicle.  Under  Alternative  B,  the  Transportation  Guidelines  (with  the  previously 
mentioned  adjustments)  estimated  that  about  71  percent  of  visitors  would  travel  via  private 
automobile,  with  an  average  vehicle  occupancy  of  1.89  person  per  auto.  It  is  unclear  how  the 
commenter  determined  an  average  vehicle  occupancy  of  2.6  persons  per  vehicle  was  used  in 
the  analysis.  As  indicated  above,  an  average  vehicle  occupancy  of  1.28  or  1.89  was  used, 
based  on  the  data  contained  in  the  Transportation  Guidelines. 

Overall,  it  was  estimated  that  Alternative  B  would  generate  about  552  vehicle-trips  during  the 
weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  789  vehicle-trips  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  as 


The  analysis  was  prepared  prior  to  the  availability  of  the  current  Transportation  Guidelines,  which  were  published 
in  October  2002.  However,  the  current  Transportation  Guidelines  did  not  contain  any  changes  that  would  affect  the 
analysis  of  the  project,  and  therefore  does  not  change  the  analysis  contained  in  the  Transportation  Study  or  DEIR. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.326 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

ALTERNATIVES 

documented  in  the  DEIR  on  page  117.  These  totals  are  about  35  percent  lower  than  the 
vehicle-trip  generation  for  the  proposed  project. 

Comment  #151 

"Page  20  [of  the  DEIR]:  It  is  not  clear  why  2,775  (maximum)  shoppers  and  employees  in  Alternative 
D  would  generate  7,339  trips  per  day.  The  DEIR  estimates  that  there  would  be  50-75  employees  and 
2,400-2,700  shoppers  per  day  -  a  maximum  average  of  2,775  people  on-site;  the  weighted  average  of 
vehicle  trips  per  day  is  7,339,  based  on  7,226  on  weekdays  and  7,521  on  weekends.  An  explanation 
is  needed  of  the  reason  why  each  person  would  make  2.6  times  per  day  on  average."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc 
Ecology  Consultant:  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No  Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal 
Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community  Organizing  Coordinator) 

Response  #151 

Alternative  D  includes  a  107,400-square-foot  Home  Depot  store,  about  30  percent  smaller  in 
size  than  the  proposed  project.  Since  the  alternative  would  have  the  same  land  use  as  the 
project,  the  travel  demand  and  parking  demand  of  the  project  was  reduced  by  30  percent  to 
represent  the  travel  demand  and  parking  demand  of  Alternative  D  (see  DEIR  page  123).  In 
general,  the  travel  demand  and  parking  demand  of  land  uses  are  directly  proportional  to  the 
size  and  use  of  a  land  use.  For  the  proposed  project,  trip  generation  rates  and  parking 
demand  rates  were  developed  based  on  the  square  footage  of  the  Home  Depot  store. 

The  trip  generation  for  the  proposed  project  was  based  on  actual  driveway  counts  conducted 
at  similar  Home  Depot  stores  throughout  California,  as  described  in  the  DEIR  on  page  57. 
These  rates  were  based  on  the  actual  number  of  vehicles  entering  and  exiting  Home  Depot 
stores,  and  they  account  for  all  employee  and  customer  trips,  regardless  of  the  number  of 
sales  transactions  on  a  daily  basis.  While  the  number  of  trips  per  shopper  of  2.6,  as 
calculated  by  the  commenter,  may  seem  high,  the  trip  generation  rate  accounts  for  all 
employee  trips  (travel  to  and  from  work,  lunch,  errands),  and  patrons  arriving  and  departing. 

Comment  #152 

"The  real  issue  before  you  is  an  evaluation  of  the  other  proposed  alternatives.  Can  any  smaller 
project  still  be  fully  mitigated?  At  what  cost  to  the  immediately  adjacent  communities,  the  city,  and 
the  developer?  Before  you  deliberate  this  decision,  we  would  ask  that  you  be  mindful  of  the  impact 
upon  our  friendly,  artsy,  diverse,  liberal...  small  town  within  the  big  city.  The  friendliness  and 
familiarity  of  our  locally  owned  neighborhood-serving  businesses  are  a  source  of  pride  in  our 
association.  We  are  re-emerging  into  a  'go  to'  neighborhood,  with  new  restaurants  and  businesses." 
(Michael  Grafton  and  David  Ayoob,  Co-Presidents,  Cortland  Merchants  Association) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.327 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

ALTERNATIVES 


"I  read  with  interest  in  today's  Chronicle  that  the  Planning  Department  is  looking  for  ways  and  places 
to  build  more  housing  in  the  city.  Why  not  build  a  combination  residential  and  commercial 
development  along  Bayshore  Boulevard?  This  could  serve  the  surrounding  communities  (Bernal 
Heights  and  Bayview  Hunters  Point)  much  better,  and  would  not  create  the  kind  of  environmental 
disaster  that  the  proposed  giant  Home  Depot  would  create.  In  addition,  the  26  small  home  supply 
businesses  that  have  served  the  city  for  many  years  could  be  preserved."  (Rosanne  Liggett,  Resident) 

"And  I  also  feel  that  the  EIR  is  really  trying  to  push  the  largest  -  that  they  have  three  options  of 
development,  and  they  are  trying  to  push  the  biggest  one.  They  might  want  to  look  at  the  60,000- 
square-foot  in  more  detail  -  which  is  more  in  the  nature  and  scale  and  character  of  the  area." 
(Gretchen  Mokry,  Resident) 

"And  lastly,  I  don't  think  anyone  has  a  problem  with  Home  Depot  per  se,  just  specifically  with  this 
project.  I'm  aware  they  have,  and  are  developing,  60,000-square-foot  smaller  box  projects  in  other 
tight,  congested  urban  areas,  and  I  would  be  very  in  favor  of  a  project  of  that  means.  And  I  think  that 
will  be  in  keeping  with  the  San  Francisco  pride  of  promotion  of  neighborhood  merchants.  A  huge 
big  box  is  inconsistent  with  history  and  area."  (Robert  Mokry,  Resident) 

"Home  Depot  believes  that  the  alternatives  analysis  set  forth  in  the  Draft  EIR  includes  a  reasonable 
range  of  alternatives  to  the  proposed  project,  as  required  by  CEQA  Guidelines  §  15126.6.  While  it 
may  have  been  useful  for  informational  purposes  to  include  a  60,000  square  foot  store  as  an 
alternative  (Alternative  C,  Draft  EIR  page  121),  that  option  is  not  by  any  means  a  feasible  alternative, 
so  cannot  be  selected  in  lieu  of  the  proposed  project.  While  there  are  certain  locations  in  the  United 
States  where  Home  Depot  has  home  improvement  stores  ranging  in  size  from  50,000  to  80,000 
square  feet,  these  stores  do  not  carry  the  full  range  of  Home  Depot  items  for  urban  home 
improvement  and  do  not  feature  lumber  supplies,  a  garden  center  or  home  decorating  services. 
Moreover,  these  stores  are  within  a  five  to  ten  minute  drive  to  full-sized  Home  Depot  stores. 
Likewise,  the  60,000  square  foot  alternative  included  in  the  Draft  EIR  would  not  be  able  to  offer 
Home  Depot's  complete  range  of  home  improvement  services,  and  the  nearest  Home  Depot  stores  are 
at  least  half  an  hour  away  by  car  so  they  are  too  far  away  to  rely  on  for  support  services.  The  60,000 
square  foot  alternative  would  not  meet  the  following  of  Home  Depot's  objectives:  to  provide  a  wide 
range  of  home  improvement  goods  and  services  within  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco;  to 
satisfy  the  home  improvement  supply  needs  for  both  do-it-yourself  customers  and  local  contractors; 
to  provide  a  source  of  substantial  sales  tax  revenue  to  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco;  to  stem 
sales  tax  leakage  from  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  to  cities  where  full-service  home 
improvement  centers  currently  exist;  to  provide  new  job  opportunities  for  San  Francisco  residents 
(particularly  residents  of  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  neighborhood);  to  site  a  new  full-service  Home 
Depot  in  a  location  that  will  relieve  over-crowding  at  the  Home  Depot  in  Colma;  and  to  make  it 
possible  for  San  Francisco  residents  who  currently  shop  at  the  Colma  Home  Depot  to  shop  closer  to 
home. 

"Not  only  does  the  60,000  square  foot  alternative  fail  to  meet  Home  Depot's  objectives  for  the  site,  it 
is  unlikely  to  meet  any  prospective  retailer's  objectives  for  the  site.  The  proposed  location  for  the 
store  previously  hosted  two  businesses  (Goodman's  Lumber  and  Whole  Earth  Access)  that  occupied 
approximately  107,346  square  feet  of  space.  Whole  Earth  Access's  predecessor  at  the  site  was 
apparently  a  lumberyard  that  likely  took  up  even  more  space.  Given  the  industrial  nature  of  the  area, 
the  types  of  home  improvement  businesses  that  are  located  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  the  costs 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.328 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

ALTERNATIVES 

to  acquire  and  develop  land  in  the  area,  it  is  infeasible  to  place  such  a  small  building  on  the  site  (and 
Home  Depot,  which  has  the  right  to  occupy  the  project  site  for  the  next  50  years,  would  not  consider 
doing  so)."  (Anna  C.  Shimko,  Attorney  at  Law  for  Home  Depot) 

Response  #152 

Alternative  C  includes  a  60,000-square-foot  Home  Depot  store,  about  60  percent  smaller  than 
the  proposed  project.  Since  the  alternative  would  have  the  same  land  use  as  the  project,  the 
travel  demand  and  parking  demand  of  the  project  was  reduced  by  60  percent  to  represent  the 
travel  demand  and  parking  demand  of  Alternative  C  (see  DEIR  pages  121  through  123). 

On  page  122  of  the  DEIR,  the  first  paragraph,  second  line  is  revised  to  clarify  the 
peak  hour  and  correct  the  percentage  comparison  with  the  proposed  project:  M:Fhe 
Alternative  C  would  generate  approximately  4,059  weekday  daily  vehicle-trips  and 
332  PM  peak  hour  vehicle-trips,  and  about  approximately  4,202  Saturday  daily 
vehicle-trips  and  497  midday  peak-hour  vehicle-trips,  compared  to  proposed  project's 
848  weekday  PM  peak  hour  vehicle  trips  and  1,268  vehicle  trips  in  the  Saturday 
midday  peak  hour  (an  approximately  forty  60  percent  reduction  in  the  vehicle  trips 
generated  by  from  the  proposed  project)." 

As  described  in  the  DEIR,  Alternative  C  would  generate  substantially  fewer  vehicle-trips 
than  the  project.  As  a  result,  Alternative  C  would  have  a  reduction  in  vehicle  delays  at  the 
local  intersections,  as  compared  to  the  proposed  project.  In  addition,  the  intersection 
operating  conditions  would  be  better  than  with  the  project,  and  the  levels  of  congestion  at  the 
key  intersections  studied  would  be  less  than  with  the  proposed  project.  However,  in  common 
with  the  project,  this  alternative  would  still  have  significant  unmitigable  contribution  to  the 
2015  cumulative  conditions  on  the  101  Freeway  on-ramps  with  the  exception  of  the 
northbound  U.S.  101  on-ramp  at  Bayshore  Boulevard/Cesar  Chavez  Street  which  would  be 
less-than-significant. 

Decision-makers  could  adopt  any  of  the  alternatives  instead  of  the  proposed  project,  if  an 
alternative  would  reduce  or  eliminate  the  significant  environmental  impact  of  the  proposed 
project  and  were  determined  to  be  feasible  and  would  attain  most  of  the  basic  objectives  of 
the  project. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.329 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

ALTERNATIVES 


A  combination  of  mixed  residential  and  commercial  development  would  not  meet  the  project 
sponsors'  objectives,  and  the  project  area  is  zoned  for  industrial  and  commercial  use  and  not 
residential  use.  In  addition,  such  an  alternative  could  well  have  greater  impacts  to  the 
environment  than  the  proposed  project  due  to  a  24-hour  per  day  residential  use  on  the  site, 
and  thus  would  not  meet  the  directive  of  CEQA  to  consider  alternatives  that  would  decrease 
the  significant  impacts  of  the  project. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.330 


July  28, 2005 


VII  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 


OTHER  ISSUES 
Business  Displacement 

Comment  #153 

"My  concern  also  was  around  the  area  of  the  impact  on  related  businesses.  I  raise  the  issue 
particularly  about  the  AAA  Rental  store  that's  near  there.  I  found  the  information  about  the  other 
impacts  on  other  businesses,  and  the  leakage,  as  well  as  the  projected  capture  rate  through  the  Home 
Depot  sales,  but  it  did  not  speak  to  the  issue  of  how  that  particular  business  would  be  impacted.  And 
it  is  immediately  behind  that  area.  So  I'll  be  concerned  about  that.  It  probably  would  not  be  that 
horrific,  but  it  does  bear  some  concern  and  some  consideration."  (Rev.  Edgar  Boyd,  Planning 
Commissioner) 

"Smaller  merchants  (Cole  Hardware)  will  be  pushed  out  of  business  by  a  Home  Depot."  (Mae 
Chesney,  Resident) 

"I  am  a  manager  of  a  small  business  in  San  Francisco  that's  Cole  Hardware,  and  I  cannot  believe  that 
people  are  not  paying  attention  to  the  fact  of  how  much  small  business  would  be  lost  because  of 
Home  Depot  coming  in.  People  need  to  be  more  aware  of  that.  The  beauty  of  San  Francisco,  and  as 
a  resident  for  15  years,  is  that  there  are  small  neighborhoods,  and  they've  got  cute  little  coffee  shops 
and  the  hardware  store  and  all  this.  This  will  all  be  gone.  Mainly  the  cool  little  hardware  store  will 
be  gone  because  of  Home  Depot,  and  Home  Depot  will  bring  in  the  other  stores.  Home  Depot  is  an 
anchor,  and  they  will  bring  other  stores,  which  will  make  these  little  neighborhoods  not  be  able  to  be 
in  business,  as  most  of  them  can't  afford  rent.  How  can  they  afford  to  compete  with  these  big  boxes? 
And  by  the  way,  for  all  the  people  that  do  not  know  where  to  go  shop  except  Home  Depot,  come  to 
me.  I'm  on  29th  and  Mission."  (Linda  Cook,  Business  Owner) 

"I  fear  that  a  lot  of  wonderful  companies  will  be  forced  out  of  business."  (Chava  Nieto,  Resident) 

"I  am  concerned  that,  if  Home  Depot  comes  in  on  Bayshore,  other  mega-stores  will  follow,  and  it 
will  affect  the  business  climate  of  our  neighborhood,  i.e.,  putting  smaller  stores  out  of  business." 
(Marci  Yellin,  Resident) 

Response  #153 

See  Responses  to  Comments  #24  and  #28  for  a  discussion  of  the  issue  of  the  potential 
economic  impacts  by  the  proposed  project  on  other  home  improvement  and  hardware  stores 
in  San  Francisco.  A  report  commissioned  by  the  project  sponsor  (Exhibit  C  to  a  letter 
submitted  by  Anna  Shimko,  in  Appendix  E  of  this  document)  provides  information  on  city- 
wide  home  improvement  supply  sales  and  the  potential  capture  by  the  proposed  project  and 
other  stores  in  San  Francisco.  The  Sedway  report  was  updated  on  February  17,  2005,  which 
concluded  that  San  Francisco  continues  to  lose  home  improvement  sales  dollars  to 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.331 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

surrounding  communities  and  that  the  proposed  project  could  help  to  reverse  this  trend.63 
This  report  was  also  reviewed  and  the  findings  corroborated  by  another  independent 
economic  consulting  firm.64  Based  on  the  conclusions  reached  in  the  studies,  any  potential 
economic  impacts  from  the  proposed  project  are  unlikely  to  cause  environmental  impacts. 
While  it  is  possible  that  certain  retailers  may  close  and  properties  may  have  difficulty  being 
re-tenanted  with  retailers,  market  demand  for  housing  and  retail  space  is  generally  strong, 
and  commercial  and  industrial  space  demand  is  also  projected  to  increase  in  the  future. 
Therefore,  the  introduction  of  the  proposed  project  is  not  likely  to  result  in  long-term 
vacancies  that  can  lead  to  urban  decay  in  San  Francisco. 


Property  Values 

Comment  #154 

"The  proposed  development  will  have  substantial  undesirable  consequences.  The  project  will 
increase  land  values  in  the  area,  causing  significant  conditions  for  displacement  of  existing  PDR 
businesses.  The  Draft  EIR  neglects  to  cite  San  Francisco  Redevelopment  and  San  Francisco 
Planning  Department  studies  and  planning  documents  on  land  value  appreciation  anticipated  due  to 
the  project,  its  impacts  on  surrounding  properties,  and  the  impacts  of  land  appreciation  on  lease 
holding  existing  PDR  businesses."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant;  Barbara  Kyle,  Resident/No 
Depot  Committee  Chair;  and  Ron  Morgan,  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  Community 
Organizing  Coordinator) 

"We  have  friends  on  the  east  side  of  Cortland  who  would  consider  selling  their  house  due  to  the  noise 
coming  from  the  traffic  and  the  Home  Depot  store  (delivery  trucks,  moving  merchandise,  etc.). 

"What  will  this  do  to  the  property  value  of  my  home?"  (Alyson  Jacks,  Resident) 

"And  I  don't  think  that  is  very  good  for  our  property,  taxes,  or  our  property  values.  [W]ith  respect  to 
land  use  and  economic  impact,  I'm  not  averse  to  Home  Depot.  In  fact,  my  entire  back  yard  comes 
from  Home  Depot.  But  let's  remember  what  Goodman's  was.  Goodman's  was  service;  Goodman's 
was  a  very  good  local  citizen.  I  wonder  if  Home  Depot  is  going  to  do  the  same. 

"With  respect  to  tax  basis,  I  tell  you  that  if  you  do  this  my  home  value  will  depreciate.  If  my  home 
value  depreciates,  you  have  less  property  taxes  coming  from  me.  Combined  with  tax  breaks  that  you 
will  give  to  Home  Depot  and  other  big-box  stores,  do  you  think  that  you  will  have  more  income 
coming  into  the  City  in  terms  of  tax  revenues  or  less?  I  hope  you  have  less  —  and  it  will  have  a  bad 
impact  on  California  and  San  Francisco  in  the  future."  (Gil  Payne,  Resident) 


Sedway  Group,  Economic  Impacts  of  Proposed  San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Store,  February  2005,  op.  cit. 
Economic  and  Planning  Systems,  San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Study  Peer  Review,  June  22,  2005,  op.  cit. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.332 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

"I  am  a  writer,  teacher,  Bernal  Heights  homeowner  since  2000,  and  parent  of  two  children  in  the  San 
Francisco  public  schools.  My  husband,  Lenny  Carlson,  is  a  musician  who  also  teaches  music  at  City 
College  of  San  Francisco  and  San  Francisco  State  University.  We  spent  well  over  a  year  in  1999- 
2000  seeking  a  house  we  could  afford  to  buy  in  San  Francisco's  extremely  inflated  real  estate  market. 
When  we  bought  a  fixer  on  Cortland  Avenue  in  south  Bernal  Heights  in  the  fall  of  2000,  we  were 
well  aware  that  we  were  moving  into  one  of  the  very  last  of  the  marginally  safe  and  affordable 
family- friendly  neighborhoods  in  all  of  San  Francisco. 

"Even  though  housing  prices  have  since  dropped  somewhat,  our  realtor  has  told  us  that  our  home's 
value  has  held  steady,  both  because  of  the  repairs  we  have  made  and  because  the  neighborhood  has 
continued  its  slow  but  steady  upturn.  Take  a  drive  onto  Cortland  these  days,  and  you'll  see 
scaffolding  up  in  front  of  many  storefronts.  New  shops  and  restaurants  open  every  couple  of  weeks. 
Walk  down  these  same  streets,  and  you'll  experience  the  pride  both  long-time  and  newer  residents 
have  in  their  neighborhood. 

"The  neighborhood  is  not  without  problems.  Increased  traffic  on  Cortland  and  surrounding  streets 
led  the  City  more  than  a  year  ago  to  being  a  'traffic  calming'  study;  plans  for  implementing  the 
resulting  recommendations  are  still  being  worked  out.  High  youth  unemployment  and  petty  and 
more  serious  crime  are  among  the  problems  the  area  continues  to  face. 

"However,  it's  a  neighborhood  well  worth  investing  in  -  not  just  for  homeowners  like  my  husband 
and  myself,  but  also  from  the  point  of  view  of  City  Hall.  Why?  Because  Bernal  Heights  could  easily 
become  an  example  of  what's  right  about  San  Francisco:  small,  extremely  diverse,  affordable, 
welcoming,  family- friendly  neighborhoods  that  encourage  people  to  put  down  roots  and  build 
community.  We  invested  in  Bernal  Heights  for  much  the  same  reason  we  have  invested  so  many 
hours,  so  much  in  the  way  of  fund-raising  efforts,  and  so  much  heart  in  our  children's  public  school, 
Claire  Lilienthal:  because  we  believed  that  consistent  effort,  added  to  what  was  already  a  wonderful, 
established  community,  would  build  a  neighborhood  of  great  value  and  benefit  to  all  its  residents. 

"The  Home  Depot  store  in  Colma,  a  scant  10-minute  drive  from  our  home  even  in  traffic,  is  located 
just  where  it  should  be:  in  an  area  where  it  does  not  impact  residential  neighborhoods,  and  where 
parking  and  freeway  access  are  a  breeze.  It's  not  in  an  area  where  the  increased  traffic  and  resulting 
poor  air  quality  would  directly  affect  young  children  and  their  parents,  contributing  to  childhood 
asthma  and  other  respiratory  problems,  long  delays  commuting  to  and  from  family  homes  and 
businesses,  ongoing  traffic  noise  well  after  bedtimes,  an  increased  number  of  traffic  accidents  and 
certainly  pedestrian  injuries  and  fatalities,  and  a  degraded  overall  quality  of  life  in  a  neighborhood  so 
well  known  for  just  that:  quality  of  life. 

"A  number  of  national  polls  have  recently  claimed  that  San  Francisco  is  unfriendly  to  families  - 
citing  overpriced  housing,  struggling  school  quality,  unevenly  maintained  parks  and  public  facilities, 
among  many  other  issues.  Add  to  this  a  city  government  administration  that  is  committed  to 
business-friendly  practices  even  when  they  completely  overrun  the  needs  of  neighborhoods,  and  you 
will  accelerate  the  flight  from  the  city  of  exactly  those  citizens  most  committed  to  staying  put  and 
building  a  life  there. 

"If  Home  Depot  moves  into  our  neighborhood,  with  all  of  its  intractable  attendant  problems,  with  the 
obvious  probability  of  destroying  the  many  smaller  competing  home  improvement  businesses  on 
Bayshore,  with  its  management's  refusal  to  guarantee  work  for  the  low-income  residents  of 
neighboring  communities,  who  as  always  will  suffer  the  most  from  both  the  construction  and  the 
operation  of  this  unwanted  behemoth  on  their  doorstep:  our  family's  and  our  neighbors'  quality  of 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.333 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

life  will  suffer,  our  home  will  [have]  lost  substantial  real  market  value,  and  we'll  ultimately  forget  our 
dream  of  a  decent  neighborhood  in  which  to  raise  our  family  in  San  Francisco. 

"Thank  you  for  your  attention.  I  hope  you  think  hard  before  you  act  to  so  certainly  damage  the  jewel 
of  a  strong,  productive  neighborhood  that  is  Bernal  Heights  with  the  giant  bootprint  that  Home  Depot 
is  certain  to  represent."  (Lisa  Rosenberg,  Resident) 

Response  #154 

The  proposed  project  is  a  permitted  land  use  in  the  M-l  Zoning  District  and  is  compatible 
with  other  nearby  land  uses,  such  as  the  adjacent  masonry  supply  warehouse  to  the  north;  the 
large  equipment  rental  company  to  the  east;  the  building  supply  warehouse  to  the  south;  and 
various  one-  and  two-story  industrial  buildings,  home  supply  stores,  and  retail  warehouses  to 
the  west.  The  proposed  project  would  replace  the  former  Goodman  Lumber  and  Whole  Earth 
stores.  Neither  the  Planning  Department  nor  San  Francisco  Redevelopment  has  produced 
studies  or  planning  documents  on  land  value  appreciation  or  depreciation  anticipated  due  to 
the  proposed  Home  Depot  project. 

In  determining  the  significance  of  environmental  effects  caused  by  a  project,  CEQA 
Guidelines  Section  15064(f)  states  that  the  decision  as  to  whether  a  project  may  have  one  or 
more  significant  effects  shall  be  based  on  substantial  evidence  in  the  record  of  the  lead 
agency.  CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15064(f)(5)  states:  "Argument,  speculation, 
unsubstantiated  opinion  or  narrative,  or  evidence  that  is  clearly  inaccurate  or  erroneous,  or 
evidence  that  is  not  credible,  shall  not  constitute  substantial  evidence.  Substantial  evidence 
shall  include  facts,  reasonable  assumptions  predicated  upon  facts,  and  expert  opinion 
supported  by  facts."  Moreover,  CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15131(a)  states  that  economic  and 
social  effects  of  a  project  shall  not  be  treated  as  significant  effects  on  the  environment, 
although  they  may  be  used  to  determine  the  significance  of  physical  changes  caused  by  the 
project.  Also  see  Responses  to  Comments  #24  and  #28  concerning  the  economic  effects  of 
the  project. 

Comment  #155 

"Members  of  the  public  have  raised  concerns  over  potential  economic  effects  of  the  Home  Depot 
store  on  other  home  improvement  businesses  in  San  Francisco.  We  attach  as  Exhibit  C  to  this  letter  a 
copy  of  the  Economic  Impact  Report  dated  January  2002,  which  was  prepared  by  the  Sedway  Group 
to  examine  the  fiscal  impacts  of  the  proposed  Home  Depot  store.  [Refer  to  Appendix  E  of  this 
document,  Anna  C.  Shimko  Letter  dated  July  11,  2003.]  This  study  finds  the  demand  by  San 
Francisco  residents  for  building  materials  to  be  so  enormous  that  the  existing  businesses  within  the 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.334 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

City  fall  well  short  of  meeting  it.  Sedway  estimates  that  San  Francisco  currently  loses  approximately 
$250  million  each  year  in  building  materials  sales,  while  the  proposed  store  is  expected  to  average 
about  $45  million  in  building  materials  sales.  Thus,  even  with  the  addition  of  the  Home  Depot  store, 
the  Sedway  Group  estimates  that  San  Francisco  would  still  lose  over  two  hundred  million  dollars  a 
year  of  potential  building  materials  sales  to  stores  outside  the  City  limits.  Because  San  Francisco 
residents  would  demand  far  larger  amounts  of  building  materials  than  the  new  store  could  possibly 
supply,  the  other  home  improvement  stores  in  the  City  would  clearly  continue  to  succeed. 

"In  fact,  as  shown  by  newspaper  articles  from  areas  all  over  the  country  (attached  as  Exhibit  D  to  this 
letter),  the  opening  of  a  new  Home  Depot  store  has  often  -  contrary  to  pre-opening  fears  of  nearby 
home  improvement  stores  -  actually  led  to  the  increased  success  of  such  stores.  [Refer  to  Appendix 
E  of  this  document,  Anna  C.  Shimko  Letter  dated  July  11,  2003.]  This  is  due  not  only  to  excess 
demand  for  home  improvement  wares  within  the  region,  but  also  to  the  synergy  between  Home 
Depot's  broad  spectrum  of  merchandise  and  the  more  specialized  service  and  product  lines  offered  by 
the  smaller  stores.  As  the  articles  discuss,  in  many  instances,  residents  and  businesses  alike  have 
welcomed  new  Home  Depot  stores  into  their  communities  because  they  anticipated  -  and  received  - 
numerous  economic  benefits  from  Home  Depot's  presence. 

"While  economic  or  social  information  can  be  included  in  an  EIR,  '[ejconomic  or  social  effects  of  a 
project  shall  not  be  treated  as  significant  effects  on  the  environment.'  CEQA  Guidelines  §  15131(a). 
Economic  and  social  changes  are  only  relevant  under  CEQA  if  they  will  cause  physical  changes  that 
would  result  in  significant  impacts,  e.g.,  if  the  project  would  result  in  the  closure  of  numerous 
businesses  whose  buildings  would  not  be  reused,  thus  causing  physical  blight.  Plainly,  here,  there  is 
not  a  shred  of  evidence  to  suggest  that  such  a  convoluted  course  of  events  would  occur,  and  the 
evidence  in  the  Economic  Impact  Report  shows  that  the  opposite  will  occur,  i.e.,  that  other  home 
improvement  businesses  in  San  Francisco  will  thrive."  (Anna  C.  Shimko,  Attorney  at  Law  for  Home 
Depot) 

Response  #155 

The  comment  is  noted  and  no  further  response  is  required. 
Comment  #156 

"Please  show  on  one  map  the  parcels  in  the  immediate  area  of  Home  Depot  and  their  ownership. 
One  of  the  applicants  for  this  project  is  Joan  Goodman  Zimmerman.  She  owns  many  of  the 
lots/blocks  around  this  site,  including  those  east  of  Loomis  and  south  of  Waterloo.  As  an  applicant, 
Ms.  Zimmerman  should  be  required  to  provide  the  following  information  under  oath: 

"Any  discussion  she  has  had  with  potential  buyers  or  tenants  on  those  parcels,  particularly  if  there 
has  been  any  sort  of  written  agreement.  Nature  of  business,  size  proposed. 

"Ms.  Zimmerman  also  has  financial  stakes  in  several  home  improvement  businesses,  which  will  be 
competitors  to  Home  Depot.  She  has  already  acted  in  a  manner  that  resulted  in  closing  her  family's 
business,  Goodman  Lumber.  She  owns  land  on  which  a  lumber  yard  is/has  been  located  across  from 
the  Home  Depot  site.  How  much  longer  is  there  on  that  lease?  What  are  her  intentions  regarding 
continued  operation  of  that  business?  Ms.  Zimmerman  is  also  part  (1/3)  owner  of  Discount  Builders 
on  Mission  across  from  the  Planning  Department.  Does  she  contemplate  allowing  that  business  to 
continue?  Please  provide  information  on  any  financial  stake  in  a  home  improvement  business  in  San 
Francisco."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on  behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.335 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 


Response  #156 

The  parcels  and  their  ownership  in  the  immediate  area  of  the  proposed  project  is  information 
that  is  beyond  the  scope  of  the  environmental  impact  analyses  and  has  no  direct  relevance  to 
the  analyses  of  physical  impacts  of  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  (see  CEQA  Guidelines 
Section  15131).  The  names  and  addresses  of  the  owners  of  record  of  parcels  in  San 
Francisco  are  public  information  available  at  the  San  Francisco  Assessor's  Office. 


Project  Sponsor  Employment  Practices 

Comment  #157 

"I  certainly  recognize  my  blessings:  I  have  a  good  job,  I'm  able  to  live  in  San  Francisco,  on  Cortland 
Avenue  and  enjoy  the  'small  town'  of  Bernal  Heights.  Home  Depot  has  promised  jobs.  Many  of  my 
friends  need  jobs,  many  people  in  Bayview  and  Hunters  Point  need  jobs.  But,  I  must  ask,  at  what 
cost?  These  will  be  minimum  wage  jobs  -  minimum  wage  is  not  a  living  wage,  especially  in  this 
city,  which  is  one  of  the  two  most  expensive  in  the  U.S."  (Kathy  Allen,  Resident) 

"Home  Depot  will  not  hire  or  build  their  stores  with  union  labor,  they  do  not  support  our  local 
unions."  (Jean  Fontana,  Resident) 

"The  Bayview  district  isn't  even  thrilled  with  the  plan  anymore,  due  to  lack  of  job  guarantees." 
(Phoebe  Grigg  and  Jim  Miglino,  Residents) 

"Scoping:  This  EIR  scoped  out  the  issue  of  Utilities/Public  Services  -  'substantially  increase  demand 
for  schools,  recreation,  or  other  public  facilities.'  Home  Depot  and  WalMart  are  the  two  dominant 
big  box  retailers.  Both  of  them  are  so  anti-union  that  they  have  no  unionized  facilities.  Both  of  them 
manipulate  the  hours  of  their  work  force  so  that  most  workers  are  part  time  and  do  not  have  enough 
hours  to  earn  benefits. 

"The  Chronicle  reported  on  a  recent  study  done  by  a  Southern  California  city  where  a  WalMart  was 
proposed  to  be  built.  The  study  analyzed  the  shift  to  City/County  coffers  of  the  responsibility  for 
medical  and  social  services  for  underpaid,  uninsured  workers.  Costs  that,  instead  of  being  borne  by 
the  employer,  were  put  on  the  City. 

"Home  Depot  has  many  stores  in  the  Bay  Area.  Please  require  the  following  information: 

"         How  many  total  employees  in  2002? 

"         How  many  of  them  worked  an  average  of  35  hours  a  week? 

"         How  many  hours  have  to  be  worked  for  an  employee  to  get  health  insurance? 

Do  they  provide  transit  passes  or  otherwise  subsidize  transit  usage  by  their  employees?  Do 

they  provide  free  parking  for  their  employees? 
"         How  many  hours  have  to  be  worked  to  get  full  employee  benefits? 

What  average  weekly  income  for  persons  in  lowest  20%,  next  20%,  middle  20%,  next  20%, 

highest  20%? 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshorc/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.336 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

"Using  that  information,  the  City  should  estimate  how  much  of  the  cost  of  health  services  will  be 
borne  by  the  City. 

"Both  Goodman  and  Whole  Earth  employees  were  relatively  well  compensated  and  had  access  to 
health  care.  Compare  to  this  non-unionized  large  corporation."  (Sue  C.  Hestor,  Attorney  at  Law,  on 
behalf  of  Cole  Hardware) 

"I  am  very  concerned  about  the  union  jobs  that  we  are  going  to  lose.  And  also  the  smaller 
compan[ies]  that  are  located  on  Bayshore  that  we  are  going  to  lose  once  Home  Depot  is  built. 

"And  I'm  a  professional  truck  driver;  I  drive  a  truck  for  a  living.  I  have  been  driving  a  truck  since 
1965.  The  job  there  is  going  to  be  lost.  People  don't  realize  since  I  have  been  driving  our 
membership  in  Local  85  has  probably  dropped  -  it  was  about  5,000  to  8,000  thousand  members,  and 
now  there's  maybe  600  members.  We're  talking  local  people  here  that  are  born  and  raised,  and  it  is 
unbelievable  for  people  to  think  that  Home  Depot  is  going  to  come  in  and  help  them,  and  put  them 
back  to  work,  and  stuff  like  this.  It  is  just  not  going  to  happen."  (Bill  Nieto,  Resident) 

"I  also  want  to  talk  to  you  about  jobs.  There  are  lots  of  fallacies  and  a  lot  of  false  statements  from 
the  City  about  jobs  in  the  community.  The  Metreon  is  a  prime  example.  They  promised  our 
community  jobs,  jobs,  jobs  and  they  said,  'Oh,  yeah,  we're  going  to  give  you  jobs  at  Metreon.'  At  the 
South  of  Market  Employment  Center,  this  year  we  placed  two  folks  in  the  community  into  jobs, 
because  the  Home  Depot  people  and  -  such  as  Metreon  and  so  on  and  so  forth  -  they  have  not  been 
accountable  to  the  community.  They  say,  'Yes,  we're  going  to  train  folks  and  give  them  jobs;  give 
them  opportunities.'  It  is  just  a  fallacy.  For  them  to  make  false  statements  is  pathetic;  it  is  pathetic." 
(Roy  Recio,  Resident) 

"I  am  also  concerned  about  Home  Depot's  poor  treatment  of  employees  and  the  loss  of  job 
opportunities  for  underprivileged  youth,  as  smaller  businesses  get  edged  out  far  beyond  the  Bernal 
neighborhood."  (Ken  Shelf,  Resident) 

"I'm  a  lover  of  San  Francisco,  an  avid  bike  rider,  and  also  a  lover  of  Bernal  Heights.  I'm  not  against 
business;  I'm  a  business  person.  I  have  worked  for  many  years  in  business  industry,  working  with 
people  in  service,  and  one  of  the  things  that  I  want  to  address  -  regardless  of  the  impact  on  my 
neighborhood,  and  on  Cortland  Avenue,  as  some  of  these  issues  have  been  repeated:  One  of  the 
things  we  need  to  look  at,  if  you  are  looking  for  jobs  for  people,  is  quality  of  those  jobs,  and  the 
impact  it  is  going  to  have  on  the  lives  and  the  residents  of  the  City  of  San  Francisco.  What  kind  of 
living  wage  are  they  going  to  have?  What  kind  of  benefits  are  they  going  have?  This  is  something 
that,  you  know,  if  you  are  going  to  have  these  big  boxes  coming  in,  such  as  the  Wal-Marts  and  the  K- 
Marts  and  the  Home  Depots,  look  at  the  quality  that  they  have."  (Rick  Shelton,  Resident) 

"I  don't  like  what  I've  learned  about  Home  Depot's  business  practices.  They  have  not  promised  jobs 
to  local  folks  and  they  don't  provide  their  employees  with  a  living  wage  or  sufficient  benefits." 
(Marci  Yellin,  Resident) 

Response  #157 

As  noted  in  Response  to  Comment  #36,  approximately  180  full-  and  120  part-time  employees 
would  work  at  the  store  each  week,  for  an  average  count  of  128.5  full-time  employees  and 
68.5  part-time  employees  (a  total  of  197  daily  employees). 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.337 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 


A  project  sponsor's  employment  practices  do  not  constitute  physical  environmental  impacts 
under  CEQA  and  thus  are  not  required  to  be  addressed  in  an  EIR.  For  informational 
purposes,  the  project  sponsor  has  provided  the  following  information  regarding  its 
employment  policies65: 

•  All  Home  Depot  employees  are  eligible  for  health  benefits  (with  some  employee 
contribution),  no  matter  how  many  hours  they  work  or  whether  they  are 
considered  to  be  "full-time"  or  "part-time"  employees. 

•  Starting  salaries  at  the  proposed  store  would  average  $11  to  $13  per  hour  for 
employees  with  no  experience,  which  is  higher  than  San  Francisco's  Minimum 
Compensation  Pay  Rate  applying  to  larger  for-profit  employers  ($10.77  per 
hour),  and  also  higher  than  the  Federal  Minimum  Wage  ($5.15  per  hour)  and 
California's  Minimum  Wage  ($8.50  per  hour).  Employees  with  extensive 
experience  in  a  trade  may  be  eligible  to  receive  a  higher  starting  salary. 

•  The  San  Francisco  store  is  expected  to  provide  a  total  of  approximately  300  jobs, 
of  which  200  jobs  would  be  filled  by  new  retail  employees.  Home  Depot  has 
committed  to  comply  with  the  City's  First  Source  hiring  program  (see 
Community  Commitments  in  Appendix  G  of  this  document,  pages  G-4  and  G-5). 
The  project  sponsor  would  use  good  faith  efforts  to  hire  residents  of  the  Bayview 
Hunters  Point  neighborhood  to  fill  at  least  100  of  these  200  new  jobs.  Home 
Depot  has  further  committed  to  using  good  faith  efforts  to  hire  residents  of  the 
Potrero  Hill,  Visitacion  Valley,  Bernal  Heights,  Excelsior,  and  Mission 
neighborhoods  to  fill  at  least  50  of  these  200  new  jobs.  Home  Depot  has  also 
committed  to  contract  with  one  or  more  community-based  organizations  to 
implement  a  training  program  aimed  at  enabling  Home  Depot  to  reach  these 
hiring  goals.  The  project  sponsor  has  additionally  committed  in  the  Community 
Commitments  agreement  to  use  good  faith  efforts  to  ensure  that  at  least  50 
percent  of  the  person-hours  spent  to  construct  the  store  are  performed  by 
residents  of  San  Francisco,  with  at  least  half  of  that  (25  percent  of  the  total 
person-hours)  being  performed  by  residents  of  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area. 

•  Home  Depot  would  provide  free  parking  to  its  employees  in  the  parking  garage  of 
the  proposed  store. 


Letter  to  Tammy  Chan  from  Anna  Shimko,  March  23,  2004.  This  letter  is  available  for  public  review  by 
appointment  at  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street,  Fifth  Floor,  San  Francisco  as  part  of 
Case  File  200 1.0062E. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.338 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

Availability  of  Information 

Comment  #158 

"The  other  large  problem  with  this  EIR  that  I  would  like  to  bring  to  your  attention  is  that  almost  all  of 
the  data  that  has  been  used  is  not  available  to  the  public.  We  have  requested  of  the  Planning 
Department  that  we  be  permitted  to  review  the  data  -  almost  all  of  which  comes  from  Home  Depot  - 
and  have  not  been  allowed  to  do  that  during  the  review  period  -  which  means  that  we  can't  really 
comment  on  it  during  the  review  period.  This  is  a  serious  problem,  and  I  think  will  require  you  to 
extend  the  review  period."  (Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology  Consultant) 

"I  have  just  one  question  for  staff:  A  couple  of  the  speakers  raised  the  issue  of  the  accessibility  of  the 
data  underlying  the  draft  EIR,  and  said  that  they  have  been  unable  to  obtain  that  documentation." 
(Lisa  Feldstein,  Planning  Commissioner) 

Response  #158 

All  information  cited  in  the  DEIR  has  been  and  is  currently  available  for  review  by  the 
public.  Copies  of  referenced  reports  are  available  for  public  review  by  appointment  in  Case 
File  2001.0062E  at  the  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street,  Fifth  Floor,  San 
Francisco. 


Public  Health 

Comment  #159 

"The  DEIR  does  not  address  the  health  impacts  of  increased  congestion  and  loss  of  a  pedestrian- 
oriented  focus  to  the  adjacent  neighborhoods. 

"It  is  well  established  that  walkable  cities  are  healthy  cities.  Loss  of  pedestrian  access  and  quality  in 
an  urban  environment  contributes  to  social  isolation,  reduction  in  civic  engagement,  increased 
obesity,  and  related  health  problems  such  as  diabetes,  and  many  other  adverse  effects. 

"The  huge  Home  Depot  project  will  have  significant  adverse  effects  on  the  pedestrian  quality  of  the 
Bernal  Heights  neighborhood  that  cannot  be  mitigated  by  the  largely  cosmetic  changes  being 
suggested.  This  can  be  anticipated  to  have  significant,  adverse  effects  on  the  health  of  the 
community.  These  are  the  kinds  of  effects  that  the  Planning  Department  is  supposed  to  prevent." 
(Amy  D.  Kyle,  Ph.D.,  M.P.H.,  Resident) 

Response  #159 

The  proposed  project  would  not  cause  a  loss  of  pedestrian-oriented  focus  to  the 
neighborhoods  as  noted  on  pages  70  and  71  in  the  DEIR  under  pedestrian  impacts.  The 
commenter  is  correct  in  noting  that  there  would  be  increased  potential  for  conflicts  between 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.339 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

vehicles  and  pedestrians  with  the  proposed  project.  However,  as  discussed  in  detail  in 
Response  to  Comment  #87,  the  transportation  mitigation  and  improvement  measures 
proposed  as  part  of  the  project  would  increase  the  amount  of  time  pedestrians  have  to  cross 
Bayshore  Boulevard  and  the  Bayshore/Cortland  driveway.  The  new  pedestrian  signals  with 
countdown  indicators  that  were  recently  installed  also  help  allow  pedestrians  to  safely  cross 
Bayshore  Boulevard. 

The  potential  public  health  impacts  of  the  proposed  project  as  related  to  air  quality  are 
addressed  in  the  DEIR  Air  Quality  section  on  pages  81  to  92.  Responses  to  Comments  #115 
to  #126  also  address  air  quality  issues  and  the  health  impacts  of  vehicle  emissions  including 
asthma  and  other  respiratory  afflictions. 

The  ambient  air  quality  standards  addressed  in  the  DEIR  are  intended  to  protect  public  health 
and  welfare,  and  they  incorporate  an  adequate  margin  of  safety.  They  are  designed  to  protect 
those  segments  of  the  public  most  susceptible  to  respiratory  distress,  known  as  sensitive 
receptors.  The  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  (BAAQMD)  defines  sensitive 
receptors  as  facilities  where  children,  the  elderly,  the  acutely  ill,  the  chronically  ill,  and 
persons  engaged  in  strenuous  work  or  exercise  are  likely  to  be  located.  These  land  uses 
include  residences,  schools,  playgrounds,  child  care  centers,  retirement  homes,  convalescent 
homes,  hospitals,  and  medical  clinics.  The  nearest  sensitive  receptor  is  the  Montessori 
School  located  at  240  Industrial  Street  at  the  northeast  corner  of  Loomis  Street,  about  300 
feet  south  of  the  project  site.  Healthy  adults  can  tolerate  occasional  exposure  to  air  pollution 
levels  somewhat  above  ambient  air  quality  standards  before  adverse  health  effects  are 
observed. 

The  proposed  project  would  exceed  the  BAAQMD  established  threshold  of  significance  of 
80  pounds  per  day  for  emissions  of  reactive  organic  gases  (ROG)  and  would  be  considered  to 
have  a  significant  adverse  environmental  effect  on  air  quality.  This  significant  impact  would 
occur  within  the  region-wide  area  (the  multi-county  air  basin)  and  would  not  be  reflective  of 
local  conditions  in  San  Francisco.  The  proposed  project  would  not  have  a  significant  effect 
on  the  local  levels  of  CO  in  the  project  area. 


2001 .0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.340 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

Based  on  modeling  for  what  is  believed  to  be  the  worst-case  location  (as  discussed  in  the 
DEIR  on  page  90),  project  impacts  related  to  local  toxic  air  contaminants  would  be  well 
below  the  BAAQMD  thresholds  of  significance  and  would  be  less-than-significant. 


Other  Concerns 

Comment  #160 

"I'm  the  president  of  the  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center,  and  a  14-year  resident  of  Bernal 
Heights.  I  am  here  to  voice  my  serious  concerns,  and  to  raise  questions  about  the  draft  of  the  EIR. 
Just  by  looking  at  the  map,  it  is  clear  that  Bernal  Heights  is  the  residential  and  commercial  area  that 
will  be  most  affected  by  the  environmental  changes  brought  about  by  the  proposed  project.  Since 
today's  main  focus  is  the  environment,  including  the  traffic  impacts,  the  air  quality  and  land  use,  it  is 
my  sincere  hope  and  my  strong  request  that  our  concerns  in  Bernal  Heights  be  taken  as  the  most 
important  and  substantive  issues  before  you  today.  In  previous  meetings  we  have  been  portrayed  as 
Nimbys  and  anti-growth.  That  is  just  not  so.  We  do  want  development  along  the  Bayshore  corridor; 
we  do  understand  that  San  Francisco  needs  a  strong  economic  tax  base;  and  we  do  want  to  create 
meaningful  jobs  for  San  Franciscans,  especially  for  those  in  Bayview  Hunters  Point.  We  do  want  to 
ensure  that  air  quality  will  not  be  compromised,  and  any  other  large  project  in  the  future  will  not 
compromise  this.  And  we  certainly  want  and  will  be  involved  in  all  aspects  of  the  land  use 
development  along  the  Bayshore  corridor.  What  we  don't  want  is  unregulated  growth  without 
thought  and  careful  analysis  of  traffic  concerns,  air  quality,  and  that  lack  community  input.  We  don't 
want  to  create  traffic  patterns  that  choke  our  streets,  foul  our  air,  and  impede  our  local  commercial 
enterprises. 

"We  don't  want  to  support  corporations  that  give  empty  promises  of  employment.  We  don't  want  to 
support  big-box  corporations  that  exploit  their  workers;  cause  local  businesses  to  go  bust;  and  do  not 
make  significant  and  meaningful  contributions  to  the  surrounding  neighborhood.  Bernal  Heights  is 
undergoing  its  own  revitalization.  Over  the  last  ten  years  we  have  seen  a  flurry  of  small  business 
development  that  has  enhanced  all  of  our  lives  in  Bernal  Heights.  I'm  talking  about  the  bank; 
restaurants;  grocers;  book  stores;  churches;  coffee  houses;  flower  shops;  nail  salons;  boutiques  and 
all  the  myriad  number  of  services  that  make  up  our  neighborhood,  and  contribute  to  the  unique 
character  of  Bernal  Heights.  The  viability  and  survival  of  these  small  businesses  must  be  protected 
and  taken  into  consideration  when  we  develop  the  Bayshore.  We  in  Bernal  Heights  have  been 
involved  in  the  Home  Depot  project  for  over  two  years,  and  we  expect  that  this  process  will  continue 
for  the  foreseeable  future.  Let  me  state  that  we  will  continue  to  provide  oversight  of  all  aspects  of 
any  development;  we  will  continue  to  advocate  for  our  neighbors  and  small  businesses,  to  protect  our 
quality  of  life  and  economic  development.  We  will  see  this  process  through;  we  will  be  in  every 
meeting,  and  we  will  raise  questions  that  require  serious  answers.  What  is  at  stake  here  is  the  very 
quality  of  our  daily  lives,  and  no  negative  impact  will  go  left  unchallenged."  (Larry  Cruz,  President, 
Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center) 

"I  am  the  executive  director  of  the  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center,  and  I  am  also  a  resident  of 
Bernal  Heights  and  a  native  San  Franciscan  -  and  glad  to  be  part  of  this  struggle  and  discussion  and 
debate  around  the  development  of  Home  Depot.  We  have  been  fighting  this  development  for  the  past 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.341 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

27  months,  and  I  first  want  to  say,  you  know,  my  parents  still  live  on  30th  and  Noe,  and  we  always 
took  Cortland  to  get  to  Goodman's  Lumber  and  Whole  Earth  Access.  That  has  been  our  short-cut 
forever,  and  that's  what  we  use,  and  what  a  lot  of  people  will  use.  We  never  proposed  to  have  a 
mixed-use  development  with  Home  Depot  and  housing  on  top.  We  took  a  survey  back  in  April  of 
2001,  and  over  400  residents  responded,  and  75  percent  of  those  residents  were  against  a  Home 
Depot  proposal,  and  wanted  another  commercial  use  with  the  possibility  of  housing  on  top.  We  also 
did  meet  with  Home  Depot  back  as  recent  as  last  May.  We  have  had  our  ears  and  eyes  open  and 
willing  to  listen,  and  nothing  really  changed  with  their  latest  proposal  except  the  driveway  on  the 
back  side  of  Loomis.  It  is  still  as  big  as  it  is,  150,000  square  feet,  the  biggest  in  the  nation.  It  will 
impact  our  community  negatively."  (Mauricio  Vela,  Executive  Director,  Bernal  Heights 
Neighborhood  Center) 

Response  #160 

As  noted  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  35  and  37,  the  proposed  project  is  a  permitted  use  in  the  M-l 
zoning  district.  The  project  would  create  approximately  300  jobs  (180  full-  and  120  part- 
time  jobs)  and  would  employee  approximately  197  people  daily  as  discussed  in  Response  to 
Comment  #157.  The  project  approval  process  in  San  Francisco  provides  opportunities  for  the 
public  to  voice  their  concerns  to  the  decision-making  bodies.  In  addition,  the  Planning 
Department  and  Redevelopment  Agency  have  an  ongoing  outreach  program  to  community 
residents  and  groups  regarding  the  planning  considerations  for  their  respective  neighborhoods 
(see  Response  to  Comment  #30),  particularly  in  relation  to  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
Redevelopment  Area  Plan  and  the  Community  Planning  in  the  Eastern  Neighborhoods 
(Rezoning  Options  Workbook). 

Comment  #161 

"Big  box  stores  do  not  belong  alongside  residential  neighborhoods  -  not  in  your  neighborhood  and 
not  in  mine. 

"The  Home  Depot  store  proposed  for  Bayshore  Boulevard  is  inches  from  Bernal  Heights.  Cortland 
Avenue,  Bernal's  main  street,  would  in  effect  be  the  entrance  to  Home  Depot.  I  am  aware  that 
Bayshore  was  zoned  for  commercial/industrial  purposes  (a  designation  made  well  before  the  advent 
of  big  box  stores).  My  objection  is  not  to  the  appropriate  commercial  enterprises,  but  is  rather  a 
matter  of  scale. 

"Bernal  Heights  is  a  thriving  neighborhood,  families  with  small  children  and  many  elderly  people. 
Funneling  deadly  polluting  traffic  through  our  community  would  be  cruel  and  senseless.  Bernal 
Heights  residents  deserve  better  from  the  Planning  Commission. 

"Two  questions: 

"1.  I  assume  the  purpose  of  the  Planning  Commission  is  to  improve  the  quality  of  life  in  San 
Francisco.  Has  there  been  a  clamor  throughout  the  city  for  a  Home  Depot  closer  than  Colma? 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.342 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

"2.  The  purpose  of  the  big  box  stores  is  to  attract  large  crowds.  I  want  to  know  how  this  will 
benefit  the  community  that  lives  next  door,  i.e.,  Bernal  Heights."  (Eleanor  Vinsant,  Resident) 

Response  #161 

The  location  of  the  proposed  project  was  selected  by  the  project  sponsor  after  review  of  a 
number  of  potential  sites.  The  project  site  is  zoned  for  such  a  use,  as  discussed  in  the  Initial 
Study  on  pages  A-l  1  and  A- 12  of  the  EIR,  and  in  the  DEIR  on  pages  35  to  40. 

The  purpose  of  the  DEIR  is  to  identify  potential  impacts  of  the  proposed  project  if  it  were 
implemented.  When  the  Planning  Commission  considers  the  approval  or  disapproval  of  the 
proposed  project,  it  will  weigh  the  benefits  of  the  project  against  the  various  concerns 
identified  by  those  in  opposition  to  the  project. 

Comment  #162 

"As  a  Bayview  Resident  and  small  business  owner,  Chair  of  the  Economic  Development  Committee 
of  the  BVHP-PAC,  member  of  the  Bayview  Merchants  Association  and  Revere  Avenue  Residents 
Association,  I  have  served  on  numerous  local  planning  panels.  The  comments  contained  herein  are 
of  a  personal  nature  and  should  not  be  interpreted  as  necessarily  representative  of  any  group  or 
affiliation,  although  my  knowledge  of  the  facts  of  this  project  are  the  result  of  over  two  years  of 
direct  experience  with  the  sponsor  and  my  community.  Like  many  of  my  neighbors,  friends,  and 
associates  in  the  Bayview  and  Bernal  communities  and  beyond,  I  share  the  desire  for  a  revitalized 
Bayshore  corridor,  reviewed  commerce  and  growth  in  the  area,  and  a  home  improvement  supply 
store.  The  use  of  the  old  Goodman's  sites  for  building  and  construction  related  supply  activity  is 
consistent  with  the  historic  and  extant  nature  of  the  corridor. 

"In  evaluating  any  proposal  for  land  use  or  environmental  appropriateness,  we  must  rely  on  the 
accuracy  of  information  and  factual  data  in  order  to  make  sound  decisions  on  behalf  of  our 
communities.  After  reviewing  the  Draft  EIR  for  this  project,  it  is  clear  that  a  number  of 
inconsistencies  form  the  basis  of  the  criteria  used  for  the  conclusions  drawn."  (Daniel  Dodt,  Bayview 
Resident,  Chair  of  the  BVHP-PAC  Economic  Development  Committee,  Member  of  the  Bayview 
Merchants  Association  and  Revere  Avenue  Residents  Association) 

Response  #162 

The  environmental  analysis  for  the  proposed  project  was  based  on  the  most  accurate 
information  available.  The  commenter  has  made  specific  comments  regarding  the  accuracy 
of  employment  information.  The  estimated  number  of  projected  jobs  is  addressed  in 
Response  to  Comment  #36. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.343 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

Opposition  to  the  Proposed  Project 

Comment  #163 

The  following  comments  contain  remarks  in  opposition  to  the  proposed  project.  They  are 
compressed  into  one  comment  since  they  do  not  specifically  address  the  accuracy  or  adequacy  of  the 
DEIR. 

"There  is  another  Home  Depot  5  minutes  away  in  Serramonte. 

"We  like  small  neighborhood  business,  which  maintain  the  working-class  nature  of  Bernal  Heights." 

(Naomi  Adelson,  Resident) 

"I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot 
project  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this 
project,  as  it  will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood."  (Akim  Aginsky,  Resident) 

"I  love  my  neighborhood.  Today,  I  took  a  book  and  sat  down  on  a  sidewalk  bench  in  front  of  a  cafe. 
Inside,  folks  were  brunching,  while  outside  people  were  going  about  their  quiet  neighborhood  day, 
picking  up  a  few  groceries  on  the  corner,  returning  a  movie  rented  the  night  before,  patting  the  heads 
of  the  dogs  awaiting  their  owners'  return.  I  chatted  with  waiters  on  both  sides  of  the  street,  and 
waved  to  friends  driving  by. 

"I  live  in  a  wonderful  neighborhood.  It's  unthinkable  that  such  a  quiet,  quaint  place  could  exist  in 
one  of  the  largest,  most  famous  cities  in  America  -  San  Francisco.  The  street  on  which  the  events  of 
my  day  occurred  is  Cortland  Avenue,  the  pulsing  heart  beneath  the  great  Red  Hill  above. 

"If  the  mega-retail  chain  Home  Depot  built  and  opened  a  store  down  the  hill  at  the  end  of  Cortland, 
this  peaceful  scene  would  change  forever,  would  in  fact  disappear.  Those  who  would  shop  at  this 
Home  Depot,  coming  from  San  Francisco  neighborhoods  lying  to  the  north  and  west  of  Bernal 
Heights,  would  all  converge  at  the  intersection  of  Mission  and  Cortland  streets,  file  their  way  onto 
Cortland,  and  impatiently  push  up  and  over  the  hill  to  Home  Depot.  In  fact,  this  traffic  would  push 
right  past  two  other  independent  hardware  stores  on  their  way  to  Home  Depot,  which  would  likely  go 
out  of  business  in  Home  Depot's  wake. 

"If  this  were  to  become  reality,  I  would  no  longer  have  days  like  I  had  today  -  reading  on  the 
sidewalk  bench,  waving  hello  to  my  neighbors.  Home  Depot's  presence  would  pollute  the  air  I 
breathe,  the  scene  I  gaze  upon,  and  the  quietness  we  enjoy  in  Bernal  Heights.  I  would  feel  alienated 
from  these  strangers  pushing  past  me  to  consume  retail  goods. 

"In  closing,  I  want  to  quote  Al  Norman,  from  his  book  Slam-Dunking  Wal-Mart,  which  lists  the  'ten 
sins  of  retail  sprawl.'  In  his  book,  he  mainly  addresses  'Hometowns,  not  Home  Depot,'  but  I  think 
this  speaks  directly  to  the  future  of  this  precious  urban  neighborhood. 

"•        It  destroys  the  economic  and  environmental  value  of  land. 
"•        It  encourages  an  inefficient  land  use  pattern  that  is  very  expensive  to  serve. 
"•        It  fosters  redundant  competition  between  local  governments,  an  economic  war  of  tax 
incentives. 

"•  It  forces  costly  infrastructure  development  at  the  edge  of  towns. 
"•        It  causes  disinvestment  from  established  core  commercial  areas. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.344 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

"•        It  requires  the  use  of  public  tax  support  for  revitalizing  rundown  core  areas. 
"•        It  degrades  the  visual,  aesthetic  character  of  local  communities. 

"•        It  lowers  the  value  of  surrounding  commercial  and  residential  property,  reducing  public 
revenues. 

"•        It  weakens  the  sense  of  place  and  community  cohesiveness. 
"•        It  masquerades  as  a  form  of  economic  development. 

"Please,  no  Home  Depot.  If  I  must  patronize  Home  Depot,  I  will  travel  to  Colma.  But  truth  be  told,  I 
will  continue  to  patronize  the  smaller  Cole  Hardware  down  the  street."  (Kathy  Allen,  Resident) 

"Please  vote  no  on  the  proposed  Home  Depot  for  Bayshore  Avenue.  This  project  will  be  a  traffic  and 
environment  nightmare  for  this  area.  The  Bayshore  corridor  already  has  building  materials  suppliers 
of  every  type  and  Home  Depot  is  not  needed."  (Scott  Barlow,  Resident) 

"The  community  could  best  be  served  by  mixed  income  housing,  community  services,  and  outreach 
programs.  We  don't  need  or  want  another  Home  Depot."  (Sharon  Carew,  Resident) 

"I  believe  that  the  implementation  of  a  Home  Depot  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  will  have  severe 
negative  repercussions  on  the  neighborhood:  Driving  out  of  business  smaller  stores  with  related 
products  (e.g.,  Cole  Hardware,  Floorcraft  Tile),  further  degradation  of  the  Bayview  neighborhood." 
(Melissa  M.  Diagana,  Resident) 

"Traffic  will  be  horrendous.  Air  quality  will  worsen.  Quality  of  life  will  go  down.  There  are  already 
enough  hardware  stores/home  improvement  businesses  nearby.  Mixed-use  housing/small  businesses 
would  be  better  use  of  that  property."  (Larry  Epstein,  Resident) 

"The  charm  of  this  neighborhood  depends  on  the  variety  of  small,  intimate  shops  where,  we  as 
residents,  are  known.  A  mixed-use  shopping  area  with  hardware,  clothing  stores,  bed  and  bath, 
movie  theaters,  etc.,  is  so  much  more  suited  to  our  atmosphere  and  traffic  ability  than  huge, 
impersonal  big  box  stores.  I  have  lived  here  for  over  twenty  years."  (Pam  Ernst,  Resident) 

"I  oppose  any  Big  Box  retailers  on  Bayshore."  (Mary  Fitzgerald,  Resident) 

"We  have  a  successful  Home  Depot  in  Daly  City.  Do  we  need  two  in  such  close  proximity  given  the 
negative  impact  on  our  community?  Answer  must  be  no."  (Jean  Fontana,  Resident) 

"We  wish  to  tell  you  that  we  strongly  oppose  the  [Proposed  Home  Depot  on  Bayshore  Boulevard] 
'big  box'  type  store."  (Ellen  M.  Frank  and  Joseph  Majer,  Residents) 

"I  urge  you  to  reject  this  proposed  project.  I  am  certain  we  can  do  better  than  Home  Depot  at  this 
site."  (Nic  Griffin,  Resident) 

"I  don't  want  my  lovely  family  neighborhood  to  look  like  the  hemmed  in  houses  above  Serramonte 
and  Tanforan.  If  roads  are  somehow  widened  to  accommodate  extra  traffic,  I  don't  want  to  be  a  cut- 
off island  of  houses  caught  between  freeways.  Bernal  was  once  a  place  the  City  paid  people 
'homestead'  discounts  to  move  to.  Now  it  is  desirable.  Don't  drag  it  down. 

"I  love  San  Francisco.  I  love  its  neighborhoods  and  small  businesses  and  restaurants  and  individual 
character.  There  are  already  too  many  chain  stores  in  San  Francisco  that  are  slowly  eroding  some  of 
its  character.  Please,  please  do  not  open  the  door  further  to  this  characterless,  oversized  assault  on 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.345 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

our  city.  We  need  City  Planning  that  plans  to  protect  and  enhance  the  quality  of  life  in  our  city." 
(Phoebe  Grigg  and  Jim  Miglino,  Residents) 

"The  increase  in  traffic  and  the  loss  of  local  jobs  would  be  disastrous  for  this  area.  We  don't  need 
another  big  box  store  in  this  area.  Please  deny  permission  for  it."  (Martha  S.  Herman,  Resident) 

"We  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project."  (Susan  Hershey  and  Judge  Auffinger,  Residents) 

"To  the  extent  that  they  belong  anywhere,  big  box  stores  like  Home  Depot  do  not  belong  near 
residential  neighborhoods,  because  they  would  cause  substantial  negative  impacts  to  those 
neighborhoods,  as  discussed  above.  This  type  of  project  is  only  suited  to  a  non-residential,  suburban- 
type  area  served  only  by  a  highway,  where  the  additional  traffic  and  its  substantial  negative  impacts 
would  not  be  felt  by  people  living  nearby.  The  harm  that  Bernal  Heights  would  suffer  from  this 
project  would  be  irreversible,  because  the  project  would  only  increase  the  amount  of  traffic  on 
Cortland  Avenue,  which,  along  with  the  closure  of  locally  owned  stores,  will  permanently  change  the 
nature  of  the  neighborhood  for  the  worse.  This  project  is  totally  inappropriate  for  this  area,  is 
unwanted  by  the  vast  majority  of  people  in  Bernal  Heights,  and  should  be  rejected."  (Jeff  Hoffman, 
Resident,  written  comments) 

"I  strongly  and  unequivocally  am  opposed  to  this  project.  I  object  to  this  hearing  in  general,  because 
of  the  size  of  this  room.  You  commissioners  either  knew,  or  should  have  known,  that  there  were 
going  to  be  a  lot  of  people  here,  and  to  shove  people  into  overflow  rooms  to  me  is  not  appropriate. 
Those  rooms  are  for  emergencies,  when  you  had  no  way  to  know  there  are  going  to  be  a  lot  of  people 
here.  You  should  have  gotten  a  bigger  room,  for  people  to  sit  here,  and  not  be  forced  to  go  to  another 
room  and  watch  the  hearing  on  television. 

"The  general  objections  to  the  project  are  that  many,  if  not  most  of  us  who  live  in  the  city,  don't  want 
big-box  stores  like  Home  Depot  or  Wal-Mart,  and  I  don't  understand  that  the  Commission  is  looking 
at  making  the  entire  Bayshore  a  big-box  district.  This  would  totally  change  the  character  of  that  part 
of  the  city,  if  not  the  city  as  a  whole.  Many,  if  not  most  of  us  want  to  shop  at  locally  owned  small 
businesses,  not  big  out-of-town  corporations. 

"Secondly,  I  think  it  is  inappropriate  for  a  city  like  San  Francisco  to  have  a  big-box  project  like  this, 
because  it  does  so  much  destruction  to  a  residential  neighborhood  that  it  is  near.  To  the  extent  that 
these  things  are  appropriate  at  all,  which  is  questionable  -  but  to  the  extent  that  they  are,  they  are 
appropriate  for  suburban  areas,  where  access  is  mainly  off  of  the  highway,  and  people  going  to  and 
from  them  don't  disturb  anyplace  except  maybe  a  traffic  jam  on  the  highway.  But  there  are  no 
residences  around  them,  and  if  there  is  extra  air  pollution  or  traffic  it  is  along  the  highway,  and  not  on 
residential  streets  where  people  are  walking,  and  where  people  are  living,  or  a  small  shopping  district 
like  Cortland  Avenue,  where  many  of  us,  including  myself,  walk  to  go  shopping."  (Jeff  Hoffman, 
Resident,  oral  testimony) 

"Visitation  Valley  didn't  want  Home  Depot  and  they  fought  them  off.  And  Bernal  Heights  will  too. 
(Rachel  Kesel,  Resident) 

"I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot 
project  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this 
project,  as  it  will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood."  (Kathleen  King, 
Resident) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.346 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

"We  also  have  local  businesses  that  should  [have]  an  opportunity  to  devise  project  plans  and 
financing  for  this  very  local  property  that  is  right  in  the  center  of  our  community."  (Lynnly  Labovitz, 
Resident) 

"We  are,  already,  well  served  by  a  variety  of  hardware  stores,  lumber  yards,  flooring,  bathroom,  and 
kitchen  stores.  Should  someone  need  to  shop  at  a  Home  Depot,  there's  one  just  10  minutes  away. 
There's  no  compelling  need  for  such  a  store  as  Home  Depot.  In  fact,  given  Home  Depot's 
competitive  practices,  existing  businesses'  viability  will  be  strained. 

"Philosophically,  Home  Depot  runs  counter  to  fundamental  notions  of  neighborhood.  Its  success  will 
depend  on  drawing  people  from  many  other  neighborhoods  who  will  come,  make  their  purchases, 
and  leave  without  any  further  consideration  for  where  they've  been.  This  is  a  city  neighborhood. 
Our  visitors  usually  come  for  a  variety  of  amenities  (a  cup  of  coffee,  a  browse  at  the  bookstore, 
bunch  of  flowers,  hair  cut,  etc.).  If  there  is  a  place  for  stores  like  Home  Depot,  it  is  in  suburban 
wastelands. 

"Home  Depot  does  not  share  our  values  and  sense  of  community.  It  doesn't  allow  for  organized 
labor,  for  instance."  (Jeremy  and  Janice  Lane,  Resident) 

"A  Home  Depot  in  Colma  is  only  10  minutes  away  by  car  from  this  proposed  location.  There  can 
surely  be  little  benefit  to  Home  Depot  other  than  cannibalization  of  sales. 

"San  Francisco  should  be  promoting  local  businesses  where  the  profits  are  kept  within  the 
community  rather  than  a  large  chain  with  little  regard  for  the  environment  of  the  neighborhoods  they 
propose  to  disrupt."  (Michael  D.,  Linda,  Catriana,  Hanh,  and  Michael  L.  Larson,  Residents) 

"I  think  that  to  have  a  strip  of  large  retail  stores  there  will  divide  the  city  instead  of  uniting  it.  It  will 
make  it  almost  like  a  border,  so  that  people  in  Bayview  and  Visitation  Valley  and  the  other 
neighborhoods  over  there  who  will  want  to  cross  town  to  go  to  school  and  work  —  it  will  be  that 
much  harder  for  them  to  do,  and  instead  what  need  is  a  mixed  use;  a  mid-sized  retail  development.  I 
agree  with  the  people  who  say  we  need  something  there.  We  do  need  something  there,  and  a 
hardware  store  would  be  great  there.  But  we  need  it  in  a  size  and  on  levels  that  fit  with  our 
community.  I  urge  you  to  reject  this. 

"Furthermore,  I  believe  that  a  row  of  large  retail  stores  will  divide  the  City,  effectively  excluding 
Bayview  and  nearby  neighborhoods,  whereas  a  mixed-use  smaller  development  would  further  unite 
us."  (Deborah  Levy,  Resident) 

"I  have  a  business  that's  about  two  blocks  away  from  where  Goodman's  Lumber  used  to  be.  I  used  to 
go  there  all  the  time  for  hardware.  It  stands  to  reason  that  if  my  business  is  two  blocks  away,  and 
people  are  driving  by,  I'm  going  to  get  more  business.  It  sounds  very  good  to  me.  I  also  go  to  the 
hardware  store  every  other  day,  unfortunately,  and  I  don't  want  to  drive  out  to  Colma.  I  will  go  and 
wait  and  circle  and  look  for  parking  at  Cole  Hardware,  because  -  three  reasons:  I  don't  have  to  sit  in 
a  long  line  of  monster  trucks  waiting  to  get  into  a  parking  lot.  It  is  hard  to  park  over  there;  I'm  not 
supporting  small  business.  And  when  I  go  in  there,  oh,  my  God,  somebody  knows  something  about 
hardware.  And  small  businesses  still  get  my  vote  every  time.  I'm  a  small  business  owner,  but  like  I 
say,  I  will  only  benefit  from  Home  Depot  coming  in.  Everybody  in  my  business  says,  'Hey,  I  want  to 
go  there,  but  hey,  I  don't  want  them  there.'  The  two  things  coming  up  on  Bayshore  -  I've  got  to  say  it 
is  a  wreck.  I  walk  down  the  street;  I  live  down  there.  But  you  know  what?  I  notice  a  lot  of  business 
going  on  at  15th  and  Mission,  and  there's  a  whole  lot  of  vagrants  outside.  So  I  don't  buy  the  idea  of 
putting  a  big-box  retail  in  there,  you  are  going  to  have  planters  and  people  out  sunning  themselves.  It 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.347 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

is  going  to  be  the  same.  You  just  are  going  to  have  more  people  with  signs  saying  'Spend  less  money 
on  a  screwdriver  and  give  the  rest  to  me.'  I  don't  want  it  in  there.  I  think  there's  two  main  sides  that 
are  here.  One  is  the  environment,  and  the  other  is  money,  and  I  think  anybody  who  has  any  sense 
knows  which  one  to  choose."  (Mollie  Moloney,  Resident)66 

"I  don't  know  why  we  need  a  big  box  there.  The  biggest  store  they've  got  in  the  area  -  I  don't  think 
they  need  that.  They  want  to  put  in  two  small  stores,  fine.  They  will  go  through  the  whole  reports  on 
that. 

"This  is  your  city.  I  want  you  to  think  of  San  Francisco  of  the  future:  having  a  whole  line  of  big 
boxes  down  there  with  the  kind  of  traffic  that  brings  in:  That  surely  does  benefit  the  money;  surely 
does  benefit  anybody  owns  property  down  there.  And  I'm  sure  it  helps  their  businesses,  and  I  do 
want  that  area  to  improve;  I  want  there  to  be  more  jobs  for  people.  But  I  don't  want  it  to  be  at  the 
cost  of  people  not  being  able  to  walk  in  their  neighborhood;  to  be  able  to  find  parking  in  their 
neighborhood;  to  be  able  to  breathe  in  their  neighborhood. 

"I  love  this  city.  I  have  lived  here  30  years.  I'm  going  to  spend  my  life  here.  I  want  this  place  -  I 
want  us  to  think  of  the  future.  I  want  us  to  think  about  yes,  we  need  more  money,  but  the  whole  state 
needs  more  money;  the  whole  nation  needs  more  money.  I  want  the  environment  to  be  considered.  I 
want  people  to  be  considered.  And  I  want  business  to  be  responsible."  (Ingrid  Mardeson,  Resident) 

"Please  do  not  sacrifice  my  neighborhood  to  this  project."  (Eugenie  Marek,  Resident) 

"We  don't  need  a  big  box  store  here.  Everything  Home  Depot  sells  is  already  available  from  local 
merchants."  (Michael  Marrelli,  Resident) 

"We  need  to  support  smaller  businesses  (family  run)  and  not  the  'big  box'  which  leads  to  other  big 
boxes  and  eliminates  all  sense  of  charm,  community,  and  small  neighborhood  tranquility.  There  is  a 
Home  Depot  in  Colma  5  miles  away.  This  is  crazy."  (Nina  Mayer,  Resident) 

"The  resulting  impact  on  the  'neighborhood  feel'  of  our  commercial  district."  (Patricia  F.  McManus, 
Resident) 

"I  do  not  want  my  neighborhood  to  become  a  throughway  for  Home  Depot."  (Amy  C.  Miller  and 
Virginia  Bowen,  Resident" 

"I  would  like  to  urge  you  to  reject  this  deficient  plan.  I  feel  it  is  flawed.  I  have  lived  in  San 
Francisco  for  28  years;  it  is  my  home.  I  love  it."  (Chris  Ellen  Montgomery,  Resident) 

"I  am  a  native;  my  father  also  grew  up  in  San  Francisco,  and  my  mother  is  from  Potrero  Hill,  and  I 
hear  a  lot  of  people  talking  about  -  in  this  meeting  like  you  have  here  -  we  all  have  the  same 
feelings,  but  we  want  it  in  somebody  else's  back  yard.  But  Bayview  wants  this  over  there.  It  is  a 
common-sense  deal.  We're  talking  common  sense.  I  mean  look  at  Home  Depot  in  Colma.  They  did 
a  beautiful,  magnificent  job  over  there.  They  did  so  well  they  built  one  right  up  the  street.  And  if 
you  go  and  visit  it  on  the  weekend  -  I  shop  at  Home  Depot;  I'm  not  going  to  drive  to  Home  Depot. 
And  I  urge  you  -  small  business  people  that  are  down  at  the  bottom  of  Cortland  Avenue  are 
supporting  Home  Depot.  Mr.  Caldwell  -  I  was  over  there  looking  at  railroad  ties  at  his  place.  Home 


The  commenter  is  generally  in  opposition  to  the  project  even  though  this  comment  sounds  supportive. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.348 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

Depot  has  the  same  railroad  tie  for  $13.47;  he  has  them  for  $12.00.  How  long  do  you  think  that's  to 
last?  "  (Bill  Nieto,  Resident)67 

"It  would  negatively  impact  local  businesses  such  as  neighborhood  hardware  stores  and  nurseries." 
(Patrick  J.  OBrien,  Resident) 

"One  big  box  is  not  OK.  The  potential  for  other  big  boxes  is  horrible  and  detrimental  to  the  quality 
of  life  in  our  neighborhood."  (Jo  Ann  Ogden,  Resident) 

"We  get  all  pain  and  no  gain.  Shoot  this  one  down  and  make  them  come  back  with  something 
reasonable.  I'll  fight  this  plan  tooth  and  nail."  (Chris  Pagels,  Resident) 

"No  more  big  box  stores  in  San  Francisco.  We  cannot  afford  to  be  homogenized  like  the  suburbs." 
(Barbara  Paley,  Resident) 

"Home  Depot  is  only  10  minutes  away  in  Serramonte,  no  reason  to  affect  local  business  and  their 
families  and  employees  by  bringing  big  stores  inside  the  City."  (Albert  Perez,  Resident) 

"I  don't  want  my  neighborhood  (so  many  people)  to  be  negatively  impacted  for  the  benefit  of  one 
corporate  citizen.  It  is  unfair.  The  sanctity  of  the  neighborhood  is  more  important.  I  will  fight  this 
all  the  way."  (Renee  Rausin,  Resident) 

"I  very  strongly  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  which  will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on 
my  neighborhood,  my  family,  and  our  future  plans  for  raising  our  children  in  San  Francisco."  (Lisa 
Rosenberg,  Resident) 

"I  have  lived  in  Bernal  Heights  for  16  years,  two  blocks  from  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  have  seen  the 
neighborhood  grow,  yet  retain  its  'small  town'  feel.  People  are  friendly  and  helpful.  We  are  familiar 
to  store  owners,  salespeople,  librarians,  etc.  This  is  why  I  live  here. 

"Because  of  this  impending  possibility,  we  have  considered  selling  our  home  and  moving  to  another 
neighborhood.  But,  upon  investigation,  we  continually  feel  that  we  would  rather  live  here  than 
anywhere  else  in  the  city.  In  addition,  other  more  'desirable'  neighborhoods  are  not  a  financial 
possibility  for  us. 

"Many,  many  of  our  neighbors  feel  similarly  to  ourselves.  We,  therefore,  hope  that  you  will  reject 
this  project."  (Deborah  Ruskay,  Resident) 

"Look  at  the  safety  record  of  not  only  the  workers,  but  also  of  the  shoppers.  And  that  is  basically 
what  I  wanted  to  say.  I'm  against  this  project;  I'm  not  against  business.  But  I  think  the  uniqueness  of 
our  city,  which  I  love  dearly  —  I  have  lived  here  for  many,  many  years  -  and  I  don't  want  to  see  it 
changed  in  the  respect  that  we  have  all  the  big  boxes  coming  in,  and  we're  just  another  cookie-cutter 
town.  Because  this  city  is  unique;  a  beautiful  place.  We  want  to  keep  it  that  way;  we  want  to  have 
jobs  for  people  to  make  a  decent  living  and  live  here  and  have  good  benefits,  and  raise  our  as  well, 
for  the  safe  environment  that  we  have,  and  enjoy  the  beauty  of  it."  (Rick  Shelton,  Resident) 

"[A]s  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  I  am  very  concerned  about  this  project.  I  am  not  opposed  to  Home 
Depot  per  se,  but  I  am  definitely  opposed  to  the  scale  of  this  project.  Big  boxes  are  traffic  magnets, 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.349 


July  28, 2005 


VTI.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

and  this  one  would  have  all  San  Francisco  as  its  catchment  area  since  the  next  nearest  is  in  Colma. 
Are  these  the  sort  of  traffic  patterns  we  want  to  create,  not  just  for  Bernal  Heights  but  for  San 
Francisco  in  general?  There  is  no  question  in  my  mind  that  this  would  severely  degrade  quality  of 
life  for  all  Bernal  Heights  residents.  Please  reject  this  proposal. 

"Alternative  proposal:  Let  Home  Depot  build  five  to  six  'little  boxes'  throughout  San  Francisco. 
Maybe  this  would  raise  the  costs  and  in  turn  raise  prices  for  customers,  but  the  bottom  line  isn't 
always  the  bottom  line.  Let  us  be  the  leaders  and  not  followers  of  public  trends."  (Aidan  Smyth, 
Resident) 

"We  don't  want  the  start  of  a  new  big  box  environment  like  there  is  in  Colma.  That  area  of  Bayshore 
should  be  developed  for  housing  and  other  community-enrichment  purposes. 

"We  don't  need  a  Home  Depot  when  there's  one  five  miles  away.  We  just  don't  need  it."  (Dan  Sobel, 
Resident) 

"I  am  very  concerned  about  the  possible  building  of  a  Home  Depot  site  at  Bayshore  and  Cortland. 
This  is  not  a  NIMBY  reaction,  but  a  reaction  based  on  history  and  fact.  In  other  words,  I  am  not  here 
to  impede  progress,  but  to  throw  some  science  and  common  sense  into  the  mix."  (Linda  Weiner, 
Resident,  Director  of  Air  Quality  Advocacy  for  the  American  Lung  Association) 

"I  write  as  a  resident  of  the  area  contiguous  to  the  Bayshore  corridor,  to  oppose  the  big-box  Home 
Depot  currently  planned  for  the  corner  of  Bayshore  and  Cortland. 

"Yet  Bernal  would  be  most  immediately  impacted  by  the  planned  development  of  a  Home  Depot. 
The  entrance  to  a  new  parking  structure,  twice  as  high  as  anything  previously  on  the  site,  will  be 
right  at  the  Cortland/Bayshore  intersection.  (Compare  the  old  Goodman's  and  Whole  Earth  Access 
stores,  which  distributed  parking  down  the  length  of  that  entire  block.).  In  addition  to  this  mammoth 
parking  structure,  the  planned  Home  Depot  will  have  a  retail  floor  space  150  percent  of  the  combined 
totals  of  the  old  Goodman's  and  Whole  Earth  stores.  This  is  completely  out  of  scale.  And  it  is 
located  not  in  the  center  of  the  Bayshore  industrial  area,  but  right  at  the  gateway  to  Bernal.  It  cannot 
help  but  severely  and  negatively  impact  Bernal  Heights.  I  believe  that  the  Draft  EIR  suggests  what 
the  reality  will  be:  a  permanent  traffic  jam  at  the  Cortland/Bayshore  entrance  to  Bernal;  and  traffic 
clogging-to-asphyxiation  on  the  still  nascent  Cortland  commercial  strip,  just  as  it  is  receiving 
recognition  in  national  magazines  like  Sunset.  (There  is  already  a  serious  dearth  of  parking  there.) 

"Moreover,  big-box  stores  kill.  They  not  only  kill  neighborhood  businesses,  they  kill  the 
psychological  environment  and  sense  of  community  for  everyone  involved.  One  need  only  go  to 
Colma  -  where's  the  village  there?  Where's  the  human  scale?  I  see  only  huge  traffic  jams  on  the  off- 
ramps  leading  to  those  big-box  shopping  centers. 

"Fifteen  to  twenty  years  ago,  many  of  us  took  a  gamble  on  Bernal,  moving  to  an  area  where  crack 
dealers  were  still  shooting  each  other  on  Cortland  Avenue.  By  dint  of  hard  work  and  community 
organizing,  we  have  helped  revitalize  this  neighborhood.  I  see  the  planned  Home  Depot  as  a  huge 
step  in  the  wrong  direction,  and  I  call  on  other  Bernal  residents  and  groups  to  oppose  it."  (Chris 
Witteman,  Resident) 

"I  strongly  urge  you  to  listen  to  the  neighbors,  the  people  who  will  have  to  interact  and  deal  with  a 
less  desirable  situation.  Again,  I  oppose  the  development."  (David  Ziegler,  Resident) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.350 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

Response  #163 

The  above  comments  are  general  in  nature  and  express  opposition  to  the  proposed  project. 
The  commenters  may  state  their  concerns  directly  to  the  Planning  Commission  when  the 
proposed  project  is  considered  for  approval,  which  is  a  separate  process  that  would  occur 
after  certification  of  the  EIR. 


Some  commenters  requested  analysis  of  alternatives  not  discussed  in  the  EIR.  As  noted  in 
Response  to  Comment  #147,  the  lead  agency  determined  the  range  of  feasible  and  reasonable 
alternatives  to  be  analyzed  in  the  DEIR. 


Support  for  the  Proposed  Project 

Comment  #164 

The  following  comments  contain  statements  that  are  generally  in  support  of  the  proposed  project, 
and  do  not  contain  any  specific  concerns  about  the  accuracy  or  adequacy  of  the  Draft  EIR. 

"Back  in  1995  I  approached  Home  Depot  to  try  to  get  a  shop  over  near  Cesar  Chavez.  Apparently 
that  wouldn't  go  through,  because  of  the  City  and  PG&E.  With  this  project  I  have  nothing  to  do  with, 
but  I  think  it  is  a  good  project.  We're  here  to  study  the  impact  that  it  will  have  on  the  environment 
and  neighborhoods.  Of  course  with  any  type  of  change  there  is  resistance.  There  is  positive  aspects; 
there's  negative  aspects,  but  we're  here  to  look  at  which  has  the  most  weight.  The  positive  aspects 
have  the  most  weight,  because  it  will  benefit  many  individuals:  the  individuals  from  the 
neighborhoods;  the  individuals  that  work  for  the  City  and  County  and  other  related  small  businesses 
-  the  small  businesses  as  well  -  in  the  neighborhoods  will  benefit  greatly.  They  probably  think  they 
will  be  out  of  business,  but  most  likely  their  business  will  increase,  due  to  the  increased  flow  of 
individuals  onto  that  area.  I  would  like  to  speak  right  now  as  an  owner-builder  I  have  been  to  Home 
Depots  from  Fairfield  to  San  Carlos,  to  buy  products  from  Home  Depots.  The  traffic  problem  which 
occurs  in  Colma  is  because  there  is  a  need  for  another  Home  Depot  or  another  store.  Actually,  you 
should  probably  consider  having  two  Home  Depots  in  San  Francisco,  one  on  the  east  side  and  one  on 
the  west  side.  It  wouldn't  hurt,  because  right  now  the  majority  from  the  west  side  will  still  go  to  the 
Colma  store  because  of  the  19th  Avenue  traffic  flow.  One  thing  I  would  like  to  point  out  is  that  the 
neighbors  from  the  area  do  have  good  concerns.  I'll  address  the  City  and  County  and  also  the  State, 
because  of  the  on-ramps  and  off-ramps  of  the  approaches,  to  take  consideration  for  the  No.  1  thing, 
which  is  safety:  safety  for  the  elderly;  the  handicapped;  the  children  -  it  would  benefit  everyone 
greatly.  And  roads  will  improve;  the  neighborhoods  will  improve.  Currently  myself:  I  don't  think 
you  will  catch  me  walking  on  Bayshore  during  any  time  in  the  evening  or  at  night."  (Jorge  Bustos, 
Resident) 

"I  have  been  in  the  Bernal  Heights  district  for  many,  many  years;  a  little  over  50  years.  My  house  is 
89  years  old,  and  all  these  units  the  repair  material  came  from  the  old  Goodman  store.  I  am  hoping 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street  C&R.35 1 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 


and  praying  that  the  new  store  of  Home  Depot  will  be  there.  It  is  needed;  it  is  a  convenient  location. 
As  far  as  the  traffic  goes,  that's  a  problem  everywhere.  It  is  not  only  convenient,  because  some  of  us 
who  are  older  people  certainly  cannot  get  out  of  town  to  do  our  shopping.  And  it  is  convenient 
because  a  big  store  like  Home  Depot  will  have  about  everything  you  need.  You  don't  have  to  waste 
time  going  anywhere  else  to  find  what  you  need.  I  trust  that  you  will  all  remember  that  the  income 
alone  would  amount  to  some  $400,000  annually  in  sales  tax,  and  that  there  will  be  many  -  maybe 
300  more  jobs  added.  Please,  let's  not  have  any  more  delay  on  this  matter."  (Aida  Calico,  Resident) 

"I  am  pleased  to  know  that  the  draft  EIR  report  includes  improvements  for  the  Bayshore  Avenue,  and 
I  have  learned  something  again  today:  that  there  is  only  Cortland  Street  entered  into  Bayview  that's 
going  to  access  Home  Depot.  I  thought  there  were  many  other  streets.  And  so,  because  there  are 
many  others,  and  then  others  will  be  improved  also,  that  connects  and  provide  an  artery  for  traffic  - 
not  only  Cortland  is  the  only  one,  but  there's  Cesar  Chavez,  and  then  there  are  others  that  come  from 
the  eastern  quarter  to  the  west  of  Bayshore.  I  think  it  is  -  this  is  a  great  time  for  the  city  to  have  a 
business  of  such  as  Home  Depot  and  I'm  looking  forward  to  purchasing.  And  I  believe  that  the 
traffic  and  the  quality  of  air,  and  also  the  archeological  culture  and  all  of  things  will  be  no  more  of  an 
increase  and  providing  some  sort  of  health  hazard  as  we  have  presently.  Because  I  know  that  our 
energy  companies  that  provide  gas  are  working  on  methods  and  ways  to  reduce  those  contaminants, 
and  so  therefore  when  the  trucks  come  and  the  cars  come  in  the  area,  the  air  is  going  to  be  not  as  hard 
on  us  as  we  think  it  will  be.  So  I  support  Home  Depot,  and  look  forward  to  any  other  businesses  of 
sort  that  we  can  have  come  to  the  city.  Thank  you  for  your  patience,  and  I'm  looking  forward  to 
working  with  you."  (Charles  Clary,  Resident) 

"I  have  worked  in  that  area  about  20  years,  and  I  have  done  business  with  about  90  percent  of  the 
businesses  on  Bayshore.  It  is  very  important  that  Home  Depot  be  allowed  to  come  in  here,  because 
the  environmental  impact  of  the  death  of  Goodman's  has  caused  an  influx  of  heroin  addicts,  crack 
monsters,  and  speed  freaks,  who  have  congregated  around  this  vacant  property  and  has  made  it  very, 
very  -  brought  down  the  quality  of  life  in  the  neighborhood.  It  will  bring  tax  dollars  and  bring  jobs 
and  bring  training."  (John  DeGarmo) 

"Just  wanted  you  to  know  that  there  is  considerable  support  in  Bernal  Heights  in  favor  of  the  Home 
Depot  project,  despite  self-appointed  spokespeople  for  the  neighborhood  who  would  have  you 
believe  otherwise.  They  organize  neighborhood  meetings  within  a  framework  of  opposition  rather 
than  open  discussion,  and  those  in  favor  of  the  project  begin  to  feel  they  are  alone  in  their  opinion, 
but  not  so."  (Cindy  Ehrlich,  Resident) 

"The  environmental  issues  have  been  fully  addressed  in  the  EIR.  Every  day  that  this  project  is  in 
limbo  Bayshore  Boulevard  deteriorates  with  more  litter  and  drug  use,  conducted  around  the  old 
Goodman's  site.  As  a  small  business  owner,  I'm  tired  of  the  delays,  and  I  urge  the  Commission  to 
recognize  this  document  is  thorough  and  complete.  My  family  has  owned  property  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard  since  1939,  and  has  continually  operated  a  business  there.  As  has  been  stated  before  that 
whole  area  was  lumber  yards;  there  were  lumber  yards  all  over  the  place;  hardware  companies  set  up 
the  next  thing.  Essentially  with  Goodman's  and  other  companies,  other  than  Carpet  Connection, 
Floorcraft  -  it  has  always  been  a  home  improvement  center.  Since  Goodman's  has  closed,  the  area 
has  deteriorated.  Most  of  the  businesses  in  the  area  have  lost  business.  People  will  come  in  and  jobs 
will  be  created,  and  the  tax  revenue  generated  would  be  great  for  the  City  of  San  Francisco,  and  so 
basically  I'm  all  for  it."  (David  Gregmore,  Business  Owner) 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.352 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

"We  write  to  you  as  representatives  of  the  'San  Bruno  Avenue  Merchants  Association,'  to  express  our 
support  for  the  Home  Depot  project  proposed  for  [the]  Bayshore  Boulevard/Waterloo  Street  site  in 
San  Francisco,  California. 

"As  executive  officers  of  the  Merchants  Association  we  are  in  a  unique  position  to  offer  insights  into 
the  potential  impact  of  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  to  our  community's  robust  commercial 
strip. 

"For  your  reference  the  San  Bruno  Avenue  commercial  corridor  is  in  the  Portola-Silver  Terrace 
neighborhood,  directly  south  and  adjacent  to  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  site.  San  Bruno 
Avenue,  which  has  two  southbound  (US- 101)  freeway  off-ramps  that  access  customer  traffic  flow 
directly  through  our  neighborhood  towards  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  Home  Depot  site,  faces  a 
potential  of  increased  traffic  impact  problems  to  an  already  heavily  congested  commercial  strip. 
However,  we  at  the  Merchants  Association  believe  that  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project's  design 
considerations  regarding  traffic  and  parking  issues  will  adequately  accommodate  any  potential  traffic 
increase,  thereby,  minimizing  any  adverse  impact  to  our  community. 

"Additionally  based  upon  our  own  research,  it  is  the  view  of  our  Merchants  Association  that  the 
Home  Depot  project  will  in  no  way  negatively  impact  the  competitive  viability  of  our  existing 
businesses  operating  on  our  San  Bruno  Avenue  commercial  corridor,  but  rather  the  proposed  store 
can  serve  as  a  significant  local  anchor  store,  potentially  drawing  in  a  broader  customer  base  in  a  spill 
over  effect,  further  advancing  our  vision  of  developing  San  Bruno  Avenue  into  a  regional  shopping 
destination.  We,  accordingly,  strongly  recommend  that  you  allow  the  Home  Depot  project  proposed 
for  [the]  Bayshore  Boulevard/Waterloo  Street  site  in  San  Francisco,  California,  to  move  forward." 
(Phillip  Guan,  President,  San  Bruno  Avenue  Merchants  Association) 

"Commissioner  Feldstein  noted  at  one  point,  all  this  planning  has  something  to  do  with  social 
engineering.  And  I'll  be  just  very  brief  on  this:  San  Francisco  needs  jobs;  San  Francisco  needs  tax 
revenue  -  especially  in  our  times  of  deficit.  And  I'll  just  close  on  a  personal  note:  I'm  unemployed  at 
the  moment,  and  it  sure  would  be  nice  if  I  could  get  a  job  down  there."  (Robert  Heacock,  Resident) 

"We  write  to  you  as  representatives  of  the  'Community  Alliance  of  the  Portola  and  Silver  Terrace,' 
and  active  neighborhood  improvement  association  in  the  Portola-Silver  Terrace  neighborhood,  to 
express  our  support  for  the  Home  Depot  project  proposed  for  [the]  Bayshore  Boulevard/Waterloo 
Street  site  in  San  Francisco,  California. 

"As  executive  officers  of  the  C.A.P.S.  (the  'Community  Alliance  of  the  Portola  and  Silver  Terrace') 
organization  -  chartered  to  promote  the  betterment  of,  and  community  outreach  to,  the  Portola-Silver 
Terrace  neighborhood  of  San  Francisco,  California  -  we  are  in  a  unique  position  to  offer  insights  into 
the  history  and  background  circumstances  of  our  community  and  its  residents,  significantly  relevant 
to  the  future  prospects  of  the  Home  Depot  project  proposed  for  [the]  Bayshore  Boulevard/Waterloo 
Street  site  in  San  Francisco,  California. 

"For  your  reference  the  Portola-Silver  Terrace  neighborhood,  which  straddles  Supervisoral  district 
boundaries  between  Districts  9  and  10,  is  directly  south  and  adjacent  to  the  proposed  Home  Depot 
project  site.  Portola-Silver  Terrace,  which  has  two  southbound  (US-101)  freeway  off-ramps  and  a 
third  northbound  off-ramp  feeding  customer  traffic  flow  directly  through  our  neighborhood  to  the 
Bayshore  Boulevard  Home  Depot  site,  faces  a  potential  of  increased  traffic  impact  problems  to  our 
community's  already  heavily  congested  San  Bruno  Avenue  commercial  strip,  akin  to  the  concerns 
raised  by  the  neighboring  Bernal  Heights  community  in  regard  to  their  Cortland  Avenue  commercial 
corridor.  We  at  C.A.P.S.,  however,  do  not  share  agreement  with  their  aversion  to  the  Home  Depot 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.353 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

project,  and  based  upon  our  own  research,  we  believe  that,  generally  speaking,  Portola-Silver  Terrace 
residents,  and  merchants  alike,  are  favorable  of  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project. 

"It  is  our  view  that  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project's  design  considerations  in  regard  to  traffic  and 
parking  issues  will  be  sufficient  to  accommodate  any  potential  traffic  increase,  thereby,  minimizing 
any  adverse  impact  to  our  community.  Additionally,  in  our  view  the  Home  Depot  project  will  in  no 
way  negatively  impact  the  competitive  viability  of  any  existing  businesses  operating  on  our  San 
Bruno  Avenue  commercial  corridor,  but  rather  the  proposed  store  will  provide  sorely  needed  services 
and  products  lacking  in  our  community.  Additionally,  we  note  that  the  Silver  Terrace  portion  of  our 
community  lies  within  the  boundaries  of  the  Bayview  Project  Area  Committee's  purview  and,  as 
such,  our  project  concerns  are  further  mitigated  by  the  fact  that  our  Silver  Terrace  residents  are  also 
eligible  to  be  beneficiaries  of  Home  Depots'  stated  preferential  store  position  hiring  policy;  with  our 
high  rate  of  unemployment,  access  to  job  opportunities  is  a  dire  concern  to  our  community. 

"We,  in  fact,  look  forward  to  establishing  a  fruitful  and  committed  community  partnership  between 
our  San  Bruno  Avenue  Merchants  and  Home  Depot.  We,  accordingly,  strongly  recommend  that  you 
allow  the  Home  Depot  project  proposed  for  [the]  Bayshore  Boulevard/Waterloo  Street  site  in  San 
Francisco,  California,  to  move  forward."  (Dwayne  Jusino,  President,  Community  Alliance  of  Portola 
&  Silver  Terrace) 

"On  behalf  of  the  San  Bruno  Avenue  Merchants  Association  we  are  for  Home  Depot  at  the  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  and  I  actually  have  a  letter  here  from  our  president  in  support  of  that,  with  our  reasons." 
(Terezina  Jusino,  Resident) 

"The  EIR  is  a  very  complicated  document,  and  there's  a  lot  of  people  full-time  jobs  trying  to  go  over 
these  things,  and  trying  to  make  sure  what  is  in  here  is  best  for  the  community,  and  does  not  decrease 
the  quality  of  life  not  only  for  Bayview  Hunters  Point  but  also  for  our  neighbors  in  Bernal.  We  did 
spot  some  inaccuracies,  and  I  would  like  to  commend  Home  Depot  for  responding  to  those 
inaccuracies,  such  as  the  amount  of  the  population  daily  workers  -  I  forget  what  actually  the  term  is 
for  it,  but  it  was  75  to  100  in  the  DEIR,  and  we  questioned  about  this,  and  now  they  gave  us  a 
formula  for  how  it  is  not  supposed  to  be.  My  point  is  this:  It  takes  a  common  goal  for  that  stuff.  I've 
got  a  full-time  job  and  full-time  family,  and  most  of  the  people  who  work  with  me  on  that  stuff  will 
have  the  same  type  of  thing.  And  I  always  believe  in  measure  twice  and  cut  once,  so  when  I  make 
the  final  seal  of  approval  of  this,  I  want  to  make  sure  it  sounds  good  for  Bayview,  but  also  for  the 
surrounding  neighbors."  (Angelo  King,  Resident) 

"I  am  here  to  support  it  very,  very  strongly.  I  think  it  would  be  -  well,  first  of  all,  that  area  has 
become  kind  of  a  deteriorating  war  zone,  and  if  you  don't  believe  me,  drive  around  there.  I  mean  for 
blocks  and  blocks  and  blocks.  I  think  we're  very  fortunate  to  have  Home  Depot  want  to  put 
something  there.  I'm  not  a  professional;  I  don't  represent  anybody;  I'm  not  going  to  make  any  money 
by  being  here.  I  do  belong  to  the  Northwest  Bernal  Heights  Association,  which  is  a  neighborhood 
association  that  is  run  and  governed  by  the  people  who  actually  live  there,  not  by  anybody  else  who 
is  paid.  Anyway,  the  thing  I  hear  a  lot  about  is  how  Cortland  is  going  to  be  inundated  with  cars.  I 
think  if  one  person  tries  to  do  that  once,  who  doesn't  live  in  Bernal  Heights,  and  lives  somewhere  else 
other  than  Bernal  Heights,  they  will  only  do  it  once.  Kind  of  a  ridiculous  way  to  try  to  get  to  any 
place  anywhere  except  Bernal  Heights,  going  from  Bayshore  to  Cortland  to  Mission.  Once  you  get 
to  Mission,  where  are  you  going  to  go?  You  can't  get  anywhere  very  easily.  So  I  can't  imagine  a  lot 
of  traffic  because  of  this.  There's  a  lot  of  buzz  words  being  used:  'box  businesses';  'traffic  this'; 
'traffic  that'  -  and  my  suspicion  is  people  who  come  up  with  the  facts  are  really  coming  up  with  the 
facts  as  they  were  made  to  come  up  with  facts.  I  think  it  is  something  that  would  be  very  beneficial 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.354 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

to  the  city:  the  tax;  the  employment.  And  the  truth  is,  I'm  a  liberal  Democrat.  We  have  demonized 
business  progress  so  much  in  the  city  that  it  is  absurd.  I  mean  it  is  just  a  lot  of  nonsense.  Just  a  lot  of 
-  always  politicking  that  happens,  and  good  things  just  don't  get  done.  I  think  we're  very  lucky  that 
Home  Depot  wants  to  come  here.  I  think  it  will  improve  that  area.  And  I  look  forward  to  seeing  it 
happen;  I  look  forward  to  having  the  Home  Depot  there."  (Michael  Miller,  Resident) 

"I  have  lived  in  Bernal  Heights  for  28  years,  and  I  support  the  Home  Depot  project  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard.  I  have  been  involved  in  this  project  for  almost  two  years  now,  and  I  can  tell  you  that  the 
Home  Depot  representatives  have  done  an  excellent  job  in  their  outreach  to  our  community,  for  those 
of  us  who  were  willing  to  listen.  The  Home  Depot  team  has  given  two  presentations  to  the  Northwest 
Bernal  Alliance,  a  community  driven  non-profit  all-volunteer  neighborhood  improvement  group,  of 
which  I  am  a  member.  Several  of  our  members  asked  for  an  additional  exit  and  entrance;  glare 
reduction  from  the  roof  at  night;  and  mitigation  of  the  project's  traffic  impact.  On  a  second  visit  to 
our  community  group,  the  Home  Depot  traffic  architect  and  consultant  showed  us  the  design  changes 
they  made  in  order  to  address  these  concerns.  Our  neighbors  to  the  east,  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
communities,  and  the  BVHP-PAC,  have  worked  long  and  hard  to  create  a  concept  plan  to  revitalize 
this  dying  corridor,  which  includes  a  project  such  as  this.  I  support  this  plan.  I  am  satisfied  with  the 
DEIR,  and  ask  that  you  move  this  project  forward."  (Laurel  Muniz,  Resident) 

"You  shop  actually  -  when  that  site  was  Allstate  Plywood  in  the  70's  and  the  early  80's,  and  never 
once  -  we  were  in  remodeling  at  the  time  -  I  think  I  used  Cortland  Avenue  twice,  even  when  we 
were  doing  remodeling  work  in  the  Mission  -  passes  right  down  there.  Secondly,  in  terms  of  its 
traffic  impact,  many  of  our  members  -  and  I  know  quite  a  few  people  in  construction  -  we  use  and 
go  to  use  Home  Depot.  One  of  our  members,  in  fact,  his  bid  last  year  was  $250,000.  But  at  the  same 
time,  he  remembers  also  using  small  hardware  companies,  Matchmarty  Pacific,  Whitmore  Supply  - 
which  has  construction  equipment. 

"So  again,  we  support  this.  I  think  that,  you  know,  quality  of  neighborhoods  and  quality  of  life  is 
very  important,  but  the  fact  is  that  Bayshore  has  been  historically  an  industrial  area  where,  again,  you 
had  servicing  down  there.  In  fact,  one  of  the  Ford  Motor  Company  recently  moved  their  facilities 
right  down  there.  I  bring  my  car  down  there  for  repairs  and  maintenance  and  things  like  that.  So  that 
scenario,  where  business  was  actually  intended  to  actually,  you  know,  be  created  and  prosper."  (Joe 
O'Donoghue) 

"I  have  lived  in  San  Francisco  for  14  years,  and  I'm  here  to  express  my  vehement  support  for 
accepting  the  draft  EIR,  and  moving  ahead  with  this  project."  (Rick  Rutledge,  Resident) 

"Since  the  Goodman's  closed,  we  lost  a  lot  of  business.  And  its  business  went  down  and  anything  we 
have  to  buy  for  the  like  tiles,  lights,  we  have  to  Colma.  And  we  would  like  to  have  Home  Depot." 
(Ali  Saeed) 

"I  am  speaking  today  as  the  lawyer  on  behalf  of  Home  Depot.  Very  briefly,  Home  Depot  will  be 
submitting  some  more  detailed  comments  on  the  EIR  as  of  the  close  of  the  public  comment  period 
tomorrow.  Our  opinion  is  that  the  EIR  does,  very  thoroughly  and  comprehensively,  evaluate  the 
impacts  of  the  proposed  project.  In  fact,  in  our  view  it  overstates  the  impacts  by  using  very 
conservative,  worst-case  assumptions.  But  in  the  CEQA  world  that's  a  good  thing,  understanding 
that  the  impacts  and  mitigation  measures  are  not  too  small.  The  public  has  an  opportunity  to  be 
aware  of  what  the  impacts  might  be.  Our  mitigation  obligations  will  be  sufficient  to  cover  what  our 
impact  may  be,  and  more.  And  again,  we  will  submit  more  detailed  comments,  but  I  would  very 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.355 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 

heartily  commend  the  City  on  a  very  thorough,  comprehensive  document."  (Anna  Shimko,  Attorney 
at  Law  for  Home  Depot) 

"I  live  right  in  between  where  Colma  Home  Depot  is  and  where  the  proposed  Home  Depot  site  is.  I 
practically  go  to  the  Home  Depot  at  least  twice  a  week;  sometimes  twice  a  day.  I  do  spend  a  small 
fortune  there.  And  I  am  sure  that  the  EIR  problem,  the  Colma  they  welcome  me,  because  when  I  go 
there  I  have  to  drive  around  and  around  to  find  a  parking  space.  I  don't  think  that  the  EIR  will 
probably  be  that  bad  for  Bayshore  Boulevard,  because  I  am  sure  when  Home  Depot  construct  a 
parking  lot  they  will  probably  make  the  entrance  not  from  the  Bayshore;  they  will  make  people  turn 
into  a  side  street  for  the  garage.  I'm  sure  they  are  smart  in  that  kind  of  design.  I  spend  so  much 
money  at  Home  Depot  -  even  though  it  cheaper  for  me  to  go  shop  in  Colma  Home  Depot  because  of 
sales  tax  is  less,  as  a  good  San  Franciscan  I  like  to  see  the  Home  Depot  Bayshore  site  get  approved." 
(James  Tarn,  Resident) 

"I  simply  don't  intend  to  stand  and  speak  in  behalf  of  any  community,  but  I  will  speak  on  behalf  of 
myself,  and  on  behalf  of  those  that  I  know  who  have  looked  at  this  DEIR  and  find  it  adequate,  and 
that  it  is  time  to  move  on.  Certainly,  by  the  way,  Dr.  Reese  Walker  had  to  leave  early,  so  I'm  kind  of 
standing  in  his  stead.  He's  lived  there  in  that  community  and  operated  a  church  there.  And  when  you 
say  the  people  of  Bayview  have  looked  at  it  and  found  it  to  be  overall  adequate  by  the  majority  of 
people  who  have  been  involved  in  the  process,  that's  really  saying  something,  because  as  someone 
who  is  right  now  breaking  ground  on  a  project  in  Bayview  Hunters  Point,  they  are,  without  question, 
when  it  comes  to  pollution  and  toxics  and  those  kind  of  issues,  the  most  sophisticated  community  in 
San  Francisco,  because  of  what  has  happened  to  them,  with  all  the  problems  in  that  community. 
They  do  not  take  these  issues  lightly.  And  so  it  is  high  time  that  we  move  on  with  this  project, 
because  you  see,  there  is  a  certain  kind  of  environmental  and  pollution  danger  in  Bayview  Hunters 
Point,  and  that's  the  pollution  and  environmental  dangers  of  unemployment,  dashed  hopes  and 
unrealized  dreams  that  unemployment  will  cause  you.  We  need  some  employment,  and  that  in  itself 
should  be  within  your  reports  an  environmental  issue,  because  it  certainly  does  damage  to  the 
environment  when  people  are  on  the  street;  when  people  cannot  support  their  families.  And  it  is  very 
easy  to  call  these  dead-end  jobs  when  you  have  a  job.  But  when  you  don't  have  one  this  job  beats  no 
job,  and  certainly  they  are  better  than  the  jobs  you  would  find  in  shopping  districts  in  Bernal  Heights, 
because  I  go  up  there,  and  you  can  drive  along  Cortland  and  go  in  and  out  of  those  shops,  and  you 
won't  find  five  black  employees  on  the  whole  street.  So  it  is  high  time  that  we  move  this  project 
forward  and  quit  playing  around  with  the  EIR  and  get  San  Franciscans  busy  working  again."  (Rev. 
Arnold  Townsend,  Resident) 

"A  great  many  of  our  members  (60),  residents  and  businesses  find  opposition  to  the  Home  Depot  'a 
no  brainer.'  We  favor  the  Home  Depot  locating  on/at  the  old  Goodman  site  for  the  following 
reasons:  (1)  There  is  no  traffic  or  environment  impact,  (2)  Goodman  established  the  site  as  building 
and  home  improvement  supply  and  service  for  over  50  years,  (3)  Home  Depot  would  entice  better 
service  supporting  businesses,  (4)  Home  Depot  would  hire  and  train  many  employees  for  Bayview 
and  neighborhood  residents  (decreasing  crime),  (5)  Tax  income  to  the  City  of  San  Francisco,  not 
Colma,  Daly  City,  San  Mateo  County,  and  (6)  Overall  economic  vitality  to  the  surrounding  area." 
{Royce  H.  Vaughn,  Chairman  and  CEO  Omi  Business  League) 

"I  am  here  to  give  my  enthusiastic  endorsement  for  the  EIR.  As  avid  do-it-yourselfers,  my  husband 
and  I  used  to  frequent  Goodman's,  and  we  are  very  sorry  to  see  it  close.  For  the  last  few  years  we 
have  traveled  to  the  Home  Depot  in  Colma  once;  sometimes  two  or  three  times  a  week.  We  hate  the 
fact  that  our  sales  tax  from  our  purchases  go  to  another  community,  a  community  full  of  dead  people, 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.356 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

OTHER  ISSUES 


yet.  Having  to  travel  so  far  for  our  home  improvement  needs  has  been  ridiculous,  but  what  has  been 
even  worse  is  watching  that  area  of  Bayshore  sit  fallow.  My  only  question  is,  why  is  it  taking  so 
long  to  replace  one  home  store  with  another  bigger  and  better  home  store?  San  Francisco  desperately 
needs  the  jobs,  revenue  and  utility  that  a  Home  Depot  will  bring.  The  Home  Depot  will  be  located  in 
an  ideal  industrial  location,  close  to  the  freeway  on-ramps  and  off-ramps.  The  proposal  asks  for 
plenty  of  parking,  and  it  provides  a  low-cost  alternative  that  is  accessible  by  public  transportation,  so 
what  is  the  problem?  The  problem  is  that  this  is  San  Francisco,  so  even  the  most  logical  and 
beneficial  proposals  must  be  demonized.  Some  say  Home  Depot  will  create  endless  traffic  snarls, 
and  ruin  neighborhood  character,  and  one  street  in  particular  will  be  overrun  with  traffic.  I  remember 
hearing  such  things  about  another  project  that  faced  intense  opposition,  Pac  Bell  Park,  but  today  you 
are  hard-pressed  to  find  someone  with  anything  bad  to  say  about  it.  The  projections  about  traffic  hell 
just  never  materialized,  and  instead,  we  have  a  beautiful,  world-class  facility,  that  catalyzed  change 
in  a  once-sterile  area  of  the  city.  A  Home  Depot,  a  small  project  by  comparison,  will  also  be  a 
catalyst  for  positive  change  for  Bayview  Hunters  Point,  so  please  give  this  excellent  project  your 
support.  Do  so,  and  we'll  help  to  create  new  jobs  and  vitality,  while  generating  public  revenue  for 
desperately  needed  programs.  We  cannot  let  fantastical,  self-serving  predictions,  or  disdain  for  all 
things  corporate  determine  the  course  of  this  city."  (Leora  Vestel,  Resident) 

"I  support  bringing  Home  Depot  to  the  old  Goodman's  lumber  site.  I  live  at  3587-A  Mission  Street. 
I  think  that  is  would  be  good  to  make  jobs  for  the  people  in  San  Francisco,  and  that  we  and  the  other 
people  that  live  here  don't  need  to  go  to  Daly  City  to  get  to  the  Home  Depot  for  our  big  hardware 
needs  and  appliances,  and  it  would  be  good  for  all  of  us  in  the  long  run."  (Patricia  Wayman, 
Resident) 

Response  #164 

The  above  comments  are  general  in  nature  and  express  support  for  the  proposed  project.  The 
commenters  may  state  their  opinions  directly  to  the  Planning  Commission  when  the  proposed 
project  is  considered  for  approval,  which  is  a  separate  process  that  would  occur  after 
certification  of  the  EIR. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.357 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  AND  ERRATA 


E.  STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  AND  ERRATA 

The  following  changes  to  the  text  of  the  DEIR  are  made  in  response  to  comments  on  the  DEIR  or  are 
included  to  clarify  the  DEIR  text.  In  each  change,  new  language  is  bold,  while  deleted  text  is  shown 
in  strikethrough,  except  where  text  is  indicated  as  entirely  new,  in  which  case  no  bold  is  used  for 
easier  reading. 

The  DEIR  incorrectly  referred  to  "Loomis  Avenue."  All  references  within  the  document  have  been 
changed  to  Loomis  Street. 


On  page  1,  the  reference  to  "Loomis  Avenue"  and  the  number  of  parking  spaces  are  changed  in  the 
first  paragraph: 

This  is  the  Draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  (EIR)  prepared  in  accordance  with  the 
California  Environmental  Quality  Act  (CEQA)  for  the  proposed  demolition  of  two  vacant 
buildings  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard/ 196  Loomis  Avenue  Street  between  Bayshore 
Boulevard  and  Loomis  Street  at  Waterloo  Street,  and  the  construction  of  an  approximately 
153,089-square-foot  (sq.-ft.)  home  improvement  center  and  a  separate  parking  garage  for 
about  5-50  539  parking  spaces. 

On  page  2,  the  square  footage  of  the  parking  garage  is  added  and  the  number  of  parking  spaces  is 

changed  in  the  first  paragraph,  fourth  line: 

An  separate,  attached,  approximately  235,597  sq.-ft.  parking  garage  consisting  of  two  levels 
with  rooftop  parking  totaling  550  539  parking  spaces  would  also  be  constructed  as  a 
separate  structure. 

On  page  6,  the  number  of  parking  spaces  is  changed  in  the  third  paragraph,  fourth  line: 

Since  the  proposed  project  would  include  SSQ  539  parking  spaces,  it  would  meet  the 
Planning  Code  requirements  and  meet  the  anticipated  parking  demand. 

On  page  1 1,  the  number  of  parking  spaces  is  changed  in  the  first  paragraph,  second  line: 

The  proposed  project  would  replace  two  existing  buildings,  totaling  107,372  sq.ft.,  with  an 
approximately  153,089  sq.-ft.  home  improvement  store  and  a  £50  539-space  parking  garage. 

On  page  11,  the  number  of  employees  anticipated  for  the  proposed  project  is  corrected  in  the  second 
paragraph,  third  line: 

This  daily  population  would  consist  of  approximately  75  to  100  175  to  197  employees  and  as 
many  as  2,500  to  3,000  shoppers  per  day. 

On  page  12,  the  end  of  the  first  partial  paragraph  is  revised  to  indicate  that  the  project  sponsor  would 
pay  for  the  mitigation: 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.358 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  AND  ERRATA 


With  this  mitigation  improvement  measure,  the  intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  C  during 
the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  LOS  D  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  The  project 
sponsor  would  pay  for  the  costs  of  this  measure. 

On  pages  15  and  16,  the  Cultural  Resources  Mitigation  Measure  is  replaced  by  the  mitigation 
measure  listed  on  pages  C&R.365  to  C&R.368. 

On  page  16,  because  the  first  improvement  measure  was  determined  to  be  infeasible  by  DPT,  it  is 
deleted  and  the  second  sentence  of  the  paragraph  before  the  transportation  improvement  measure  is 
revised: 

These  The  following  measure  would  be  implemented  by  the  Department  of  Parking  and 
Traffic  and  the  cost  of  the  first  measure  would  be  borne  by  the  project  sponsor. 

On  page  16,  the  first  transportation  improvement  measure  is  deleted  because  it  was  determined  to  be 
infeasible  by  DPT: 

• — To  improve  operations  and  safety  at  the  eastbound  approach  of  Cortland  Avenue  to  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  the  centerline  between  the  eastbound  and  westbound  directions  could  be  restriped 
to  provide  24  feet  in  the  eastbound  direction  and  16  feet  in  the  westbound  direction.  These 
changes  would  be  designed  to  reduce  project-generated  nonsignificant  impacts.  In  addition, 
the  bus  stop  could  be  shortened  to  60  feet  long  (starting  at  Hilton  Street)  and  two  lanes  could 
be  striped  at  the  approach. — As  a  result  of  these  changes,  vehicular  circulation  would 
substantially  improve  and  the  operation  conditions  of  the — approach  and  the  entire 
Bayshore/Cortland  intersection  would  improve. 

On  page  16,  Transportation  bullet,  eighth  line,  is  revised  to  clarify  that  the  project  sponsor  is  not 

required  to  pay  for  the  improvement  measure,  although  they  have  agreed  to  do  so: 

These  improvements  would  be  appropriate  independent  of  the  project  under  existing 
conditions  and  would  be  designed  to  mitigate  cumulative  significant  impacts  to  which 
the  project  would  not  make  a  significant  contribution. 

On  page  20,  the  number  of  employees  and  customers  anticipated  for  Alternative  D  is  corrected  in  the 

second  full  paragraph,  sixth  line: 

The  estimated  on-site  population  would  be  about  50  to  75  122  to  138  employees  and  between 
2,400  2,300  to  2,700  2,600  shoppers  per  day,  and  would  increase  the  concentration  of  people 
on  the  project  site. 

On  page  22,  the  number  of  employees  and  customers  anticipated  for  Alternative  E  is  corrected  in  the 
second  line  from  the  top  of  page: 

The  estimated  daily  on-site  population  would  be  about  70  to  95  149  to  180  employees  and 
between  2,300  2,400  to  2,600  2,700  shoppers  per  day,  and  would  increase  the  concentration 
of  people  on  the  project  site. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.359 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  AND  ERRATA 

On  page  25,  the  number  of  parking  spaces  is  revised  and  the  reference  to  "Loomis  Avenue"  is 

corrected  in  the  first  paragraph: 

The  project  sponsor,  Home  Depot,  proposes  to  construct  an  approximately  153,089  sq.-ft. 
home  improvement  store  and  a  separate  540  539-space  parking  garage  on  a  5.73-acre  site  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  196  Loomis  Avenue  Street. 

On  page  26,  to  clarify  discussion  of  the  parking  garage,  under  Project  Characteristics,  the  following 

is  added  at  the  end  of  the  first  paragraph: 

An  approximately  235,597  sq.-ft.  parking  garage  would  be  constructed  as  a  separate  structure 
that  would  contain  the  38,405  sq.-ft.  second  floor  sales  area  (which  is  included  in  the  153,089 
sq.-ft.  total  for  the  home  improvement  center  and  is  not  included  in  the  parking  square 
footage),  accessible  by  elevator  and  escalator  to  the  ground  floor  sales  area.  The  total  square 
footage  of  the  project  would  be  approximately  388,686  sq.ft.,  including  all  parking  areas. 

On  page  26,  the  number  of  parking  spaces  is  changed  under  Project  Characteristics,  in  the  second 

paragraph,  second  sentence: 

A  separate  540  539-space,  two-story  parking  garage  plus  rooftop  parking  would  also  be 
constructed  with  cast-in-place  concrete. 

On  page  27,  Figure  C&R.8  replaces  DEIR  Figure  1. 
On  page  28,  Figure  C&R.6  replaces  DEIR  Figure  2. 

On  page  33,  the  construction  and  completion  schedule  is  changed  in  the  third  paragraph,  first  line: 
Construction  is  expected  to  begin  in  2003  2005,  with  the  store  opening  in  2005  late  2006. 

On  page  36,  Figure  C&R.9  replaces  DEIR  Figure  7. 

On  page  37,  the  following  sentence  is  added  at  the  beginning  of  the  third  paragraph  to  include 

reference  to  the  school  in  the  summary: 

A  child  care  center,  the  Big  City  Montessori  School,  is  located  about  300  feet  south  of  the 
proposed  project  at  the  northeast  corner  of  Loomis  Street  and  Industrial  Street. 

On  page  37,  the  third  paragraph,  line  five,  the  sentence  is  revised  to  indicate  that  the  building  is  in 
fact  occupied: 

A  vacant  building  supply  warehouse  is  located  to  the  south,  across  Waterloo  Street. 

On  page  41,  the  following  subsection  is  added  prior  to  the  Zoning  section  in  order  to  include  the  Area 
Plan  element: 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.360 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  AND  ERRATA 


South  Bayshore  Area  Plan  Element 

•  Policy  3.1,  to  'improve  and  establish  truck  routes  between  industrial  areas  and 
freeway  interchanges.' 

•  Policy  4.1,  to  'develop  a  comprehensive  network  and  schedule  of  roadway 
improvements  to  assure  that  South  Bayshore  maintains  an  adequate  level  of 
service  at  key  intersections  as  the  residential  and  work  force  population  in  the 
district  increases.' 

•  Policy  7.3,  to  'develop  secondary  nodes  of  commercial  activity.' 

•  Objective  8,  to  'strengthen  the  role  of  South  Bayshore  industrial  areas  in  the 
overall  economy  of  the  district,  the  city,  and  the  overall  region.' 

•  Policy  8.1,  to  'maintain  industrial  zones  in  Northern  Industrial  and  India 
Basin  subdistricts.' 

•  Objective  9,  to  'improve  linkage  between  growth  in  South  Bayshore  industrial 
areas  and  employment  and  business  needs  of  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
community.' 

On  page  41,  the  following  subsection  is  added  prior  to  the  Zoning  section,  after  the  addition 
immediately  above,  in  order  to  include  existing  area  design  guidelines  as  the  proposed  Industrial 
Area  Design  Guidelines  for  the  South  Bayshore  Area  Plan  have  not  yet  been  adopted: 
Industrial  Area  Design  Guidelines 
New  industrial  buildings  must: 

•  respect  the  prevailing  industrial  scale,  pattern  and  architectural  character  of 
predominantly  industrial  blocks; 

•  utilize  innovative  materials  and  design  that  enrich  the  architectural  character 
of  predominantly  industrial  areas; 

•  provide  loading  and  parking  facilities  in  the  rear  which  can  be  accessed 
through  an  alley  or  secondary  street; 

•  provide  mid-block  alleys,  courtyards  and  other  design  elements  that  help 
break  down  the  scale  of  large  industrial  blocks;  and 

•  be  built  to  lot  line  at  the  street  frontage,  unless  a  pattern  of  a  building  set-back 
exists,  in  which  case  the  prevailing  set-back  pattern  should  be  reflected. 

On  page  43,  the  description  of  Alemany  Boulevard,  which  was  omitted  from  the  DEIR,  is  added  at 
the  bottom  of  the  page: 


Alemany  Boulevard  is  an  east-west  major  arterial  that  generally  parallels  1-280  throughout 
the  southern  portion  of  San  Francisco.  Alemany  Boulevard  operates  between  Bayshore 
Boulevard  and  Junipero  Serra  Boulevard,  at  which  point  it  merges  with  Highway  1.  In  the 
vicinity  of  the  project  site,  Alemany  Boulevard  has  three  lanes  in  each  direction  with  no 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.361 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  AND  ERRATA 

parking  permitted  on  either  side  of  the  street.  In  the  San  Francisco  General  Plan,  Alemany 
Boulevard  is  classified  as  a  Major  Arterial  in  the  CMP  Network  and  a  MTS  Street. 

On  page  46,  Figure  C&R.10  replaces  DEIR  Figure  10. 

On  page  52,  Figure  C&R.  1 1  replaces  DEIR  Figure  11. 

On  page  53,  the  route  of  the  44-O'Shaughnessy  Muni  line  is  corrected  in  the  first  bullet  point  at  the 
top  of  the  page: 

The  44-O'Shaughnessy  is  a  cross-town  route  which  provides  travel  between  the  Inner 
Richmond,  Golden  Gate  Park,  Twin  Peaks,  Glen  Park,  Bernal  Heights,  Portola,  Silver 
Terrace  and  Bayview  Hunters  Point  neighborhoods. 

On  page  68,  to  clarify  that  some  drivers  may  eventually  divert  onto  Crescent  Avenue  to  avoid 

potential  queues  and  delays  that  may  develop  on  Cortland  Avenue,  the  first  partial  paragraph,  lines 

six  and  seven  are  revised: 

To  avoid  the  queues  and  associated  delays  at  the  Bayshore/Cortland  intersection,  drivers  may 
divert  to  other  routes,  such  as  Putnam  Street  to  Crescent  Avenue. 

On  page  70,  the  number  of  parking  spaces  is  revised  in  the  second  paragraph,  fourth  line: 

Since  the  proposed  project  would  include  &SQ  539  parking  spaces,  it  would  meet  the 
Planning  Code  requirements  and  meet  the  anticipated  parking  demand. 

On  page  81,  the  first  sentence  of  the  last  paragraph  is  revised  to  read: 

The  ambient  air  quality  standards  are  intended  to  protect  public  health  and  welfare,  and  they 
incorporate  an  adequate  margin  of  safety. 

On  page  85,  Table  8  is  updated  with  Table  C&R.  19,  page  259,  which  includes  information  on  data 
from  2002  and  includes  levels  of  PM2  5  with  respect  to  the  air  quality  standards  in  effect  at  the  time. 

On  page  96,  the  present  standard  for  lead  hazard  is  corrected  in  the  second  full  paragraph,  second 
sentence: 

The  DPH  Environmental  Health-Hazardous  Waste  Unit  (EHS-HWU)  considers  soils  with  a 
total  lead  concentration  of  over  1,000  750  parts  per  million  (ppm)  to  be  potentially 
hazardous. 

On  page  99,  the  present  standard  for  lead  hazard  is  corrected  in  the  second  line  from  the  top  of  the 

page: 

The  California  Code  of  Regulations,  Title  22,  considers  soil  with  lead  to  be  hazardous  waste 
if  it  exceeds  a  total  concentration  of  1 ,000  750  parts  per  million  (ppm)  and  a  soluble 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.362 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  AND  ERRATA 

concentration  of  5  ppm.  The  Phase  II  investigation  revealed  elevated  levels  of  lead,  however, 
only  one  three  of  the  45  samples  exceeded  the  threshold  concentration. 

On  page  103,  the  number  of  parking  spaces  is  revised  in  the  first  paragraph,  fifth  line: 

The  proposed  project  would  replace  two  existing  buildings,  formerly  used  for  a  home 
improvement  and  building  supply  store  and  a  retail  home  furnishing  and  supply  store  totaling 
approximately  107,400  sq.ft.,  with  an  approximately  153,089  sq.ft.  home  improvement  store 
and  a  540  539-space  parking  garage. 

On  page  103,  the  number  of  employees  anticipated  for  the  proposed  project  is  corrected  in  the  second 
paragraph,  third  line: 

This  daily  population  would  consist  of  approximately  75  to  100  175  to  197  employees  and  as 
many  as  2,500  to  3,000  shoppers  per  day. 

On  page  106,  the  end  of  the  first  paragraph  is  revised  to  indicate  that  the  project  sponsor  would  pay 
for  the  mitigation: 

With  this  mitigation  improvement  measure,  the  intersection  would  operate  at  LOS  C  during 
the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  LOS  D  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour.  The  project 
sponsor  would  pay  for  the  costs  of  this  measure. 

On  pages  109  and  110,  the  Cultural  Resources  Mitigation  Measure  is  replaced  with  the  measure 
listed  on  pages  C&R.365  to  C&R.368. 

On  page  1 10,  the  second  sentence  of  the  paragraph  before  the  transportation  improvement  measure  is 

revised  because  the  first  improvement  measure  was  determined  to  be  infeasible  by  DPT: 

These  The  following  measure  would  be  implemented  by  the  Department  of  Parking  and 
Traffic  and  the  cost  of  the  first  measure  would  be  borne  by  the  project  sponsor. 

On  page  110,  the  first  transportation  improvement  measure  is  deleted  because  it  was  determined  to 
be  infeasible  by  DPT: 

* — To  improve  operations  and  safety  at  the  castbound  approach  of  Cortland  Avenue  to  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  the  centerline  between  the  castbound  and  westbound  directions  could  be  restriped 
to  provide  24  feet  in  the  eastbound  direction  and  16  feet  in  the  westbound  direction.  These 
changes  would  be  designed  to  reduce  project-generated  nonsignificant  impacts.  In  addition, 
the  bus  stop  could  bo  shortened  to  60  feet  long  (starting  at  Hilton  Street)  and  two  lanes  could 
be  striped  at  the  approach. — As  a  result  of  these  changes,  vehicular  circulation  would 
substantially  improve — and  the — operation  conditions — of  the — approach  and — the — entire 
Bayshore/Cortland  intersection  would  improve. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.363 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  AND  ERRATA 

On  page  1 1 1,  the  first  full  sentence,  is  revised  to  clarify  that  the  project  sponsor  is  not  required  to  pay 

for  the  improvement  measure,  although  they  have  agreed  to  do  so: 

These  improvements  would  be  appropriate  independent  of  the  project  under  existing 
conditions  and  would  be  designed  to  mitigate  cumulative  significant  impacts  to  which  the 
project  would  not  make  a  significant  contribution. 

On  page  1 16,  the  number  of  parking  spaces  is  revised  in  the  second  paragraph,  third  line: 

The  effects  of  the  proposed  153,089  sq.ft.  project  and  the  SSQ  539-space  parking  garage 
would  not  occur,  nor  would  there  be  air  quality  impacts  from  the  proposed  project  which 
exceed  the  BAAQMD  threshold  of  significance  for  regional  emissions  of  reactive  organic 
gases  (ROG). 

On  page  1 17,  the  first  paragraph,  seventh  line,  is  revised  to  clarify  what  parking  would  be  anticipated 

for  other  potential  development  on  the  project  site  should  the  No-Project  Alternative  be  selected: 

It  is  assumed  that  the  buildings  would  comply  with  building  codes  and  the  San  Francisco 
Planning  Code  requirement  for  the  provision  of  off-street  parking  (which  would  equate 
to  347  spaces). 

On  page  117,  the  second  paragraph,  fourth  line,  is  revised  to  include  the  total  daily  vehicle  trips 

generated  by  the  alternative  and  percentage  comparison  with  the  proposed  project: 

T-his-Alternative  B  would  generate  about  approximately  6,136  weekday  daily  vehicle-trips 
and  552  PM  peak  hour  vehicle-trips;  in  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  approximately 
8,222  Saturday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  789  midday  peak  hour  vehicle-trips  in  the 
Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  compared  to  proposed  project's  848  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trips 
and  1,268  trips  in  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (about  a  35  percent  reduction  from  the 
proposed  project). 

On  page  122,  the  second  paragraph,  second  line  is  revised  to  clarify  the  peak  hour  and  correct  the 

percentage  comparison  with  the  proposed  project: 

The  Alternative  C  would  generate  approximately  4,059  weekday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  332 
PM  peak  hour  vehicle-trips,  and  about  approximately  4,202  Saturday  daily  vehicle-trips  and 
497  midday  peak-hour  vehicle-trips,  compared  to  proposed  project's  848  weekday  PM  peak 
hour  vehicle  trips  and — 1,268  vehicle  trips  in  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (an 
approximately  forty  60  percent  reduction  in  the  vehicle  trips  generated  by  from  the  proposed 
project). 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.364 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  AND  ERRATA 

On  page  123,  the  number  of  employees  and  customers  anticipated  for  Alternative  D  is  corrected  in 

the  third  paragraph,  sixth  line: 

The  estimated  on-site  population  would  be  about  50  to  75  122  to  138  employees  and  between 
2,400  2,300  to  2,700  2,600  shoppers  per  day,  and  would  increase  the  concentration  of  people 
on  the  project  site. 

On  page  124,  the  first  paragraph,  third  line,  is  revised  to  clarify  the  peak  hour  and  the  percentage 

comparison  with  the  project  alternative: 

Alternative  D  would  generate  approximately  7,266  weekday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  595  PM 
peak  hour  vehicle-trips,  and  approximately  about  7,521  Saturday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  890 
midday  peak  hour  vehicle-trips  ,  compared  to  the  proposed  project's  848  weekday  PM  peak 
hour  vehicle  trips  and  1,268  vehicle  trips  in  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (about  a  30 
percent  reduction  from  the  proposed  project). 

On  page  126,  the  number  of  employees  and  customers  anticipated  for  Alternative  E  is  corrected  in 

the  first  paragraph,  seventh  line: 

The  estimated  daily  on-site  population  would  be  about  70  to  95  149  to  180  employees  and 
between  2,300  2,400  to  2,600  2,700  shoppers  per  day,  and  would  increase  the  concentration 
of  people  on  the  project  site. 

On  page  126,  the  second  paragraph,  line  one,  is  revised  to  clarify  the  peak  hour  and  the  percentage 

comparison  with  the  proposed  project: 

Alternative  E  would  generate  approximately  9,480  weekday  daily  vehicle-trips  and  776  PM 
weekday  peak  hour  vehicle-trips,  and  approximately  9,796  Saturday  daily  peak  hour 
vehicle-trips  and  about  1,159  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  vehicle-trips  ,  compared  to  the 
proposed  project's  848  weekday  PM  peak  hour  vehicle  trips  and  1,268  vehicle  trips  in  the 
Saturday  midday  peak  hour  (about  a  10  percent  reduction  from  the  proposed  project). 

On  pages  15,  16,  109,  and  110,  the  existing  Cultural  Resources  mitigation  measure  is  deleted  and 
replaced  with  the  following  measure: 
Cultural  Resources 

Based  on  a  reasonable  presumption  that  archeological  resources  may  be  present  within  the 
project  site,  the  following  measures  shall  be  undertaken  to  avoid  any  potentially  significant 
adverse  effect  from  the  proposed  project  on  buried  or  submerged  historical  resources.  The 
project  sponsor  shall  retain  the  services  of  a  qualified  archeological  consultant  having 
expertise  in  California  prehistoric  and  urban  historical  archeology.  The  archeological 
consultant  shall  undertake  an  archeological  testing  program  as  specified  herein.  In  addition, 
the  consultant  shall  be  available  to  conduct  an  archeological  monitoring  and/or  data  recovery 
program  if  required  pursuant  to  this  measure.  The  archeological  consultant's  work  shall  be 
conducted  in  accordance  with  this  measure  at  the  direction  of  the  Environmental  Review 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R365 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  AND  ERRATA 

Officer  (ERO).  All  plans  and  reports  prepared  by  the  consultant  as  specified  herein  shall  be 
submitted  first  and  directly  to  the  ERO  for  review  and  comment,  and  shall  be  considered 
draft  reports  subject  to  revision  until  final  approval  by  the  ERO.  Archeological  monitoring 
and/or  data  recovery  programs  required  by  this  measure  could  suspend  construction  of  the 
project  for  up  to  a  maximum  of  four  weeks.  At  the  direction  of  the  ERO,  the  suspension  of 
construction  can  be  extended  beyond  four  weeks  only  if  such  a  suspension  is  the  only 
feasible  means  to  reduce  to  a  less-than-significant  level  potential  effects  on  a  significant 
archeological  resource  as  defined  in  CEQA  Guidelines  Section  15064.5  (a)(c). 

Archeological  Testing  Program.  The  archeological  consultant  shall  prepare  and  submit  to 
the  ERO  for  review  and  approval  an  archeological  testing  plan  (ATP).  The  archeological 
testing  program  shall  be  conducted  in  accordance  with  the  approved  ATP.  The  ATP  shall 
identify  the  property  types  of  the  expected  archeological  resource(s)  that  potentially  could  be 
adversely  affected  by  the  proposed  project,  the  testing  method  to  be  used,  and  the  locations 
recommended  for  testing.  The  purpose  of  the  archeological  testing  program  will  be  to 
determine  to  the  extent  possible  the  presence  or  absence  of  archeological  resources  and  to 
identify  and  to  evaluate  whether  any  archeological  resource  encountered  on  the  site 
constitutes  an  historical  resource  under  CEQA. 

At  the  completion  of  the  archeological  testing  program,  the  archeological  consultant  shall 
submit  a  written  report  of  the  findings  to  the  ERO.  If  based  on  the  archeological  testing 
program  the  archeological  consultant  finds  that  significant  archeological  resources  may  be 
present,  the  ERO  in  consultation  with  the  archeological  consultant  shall  determine  if 
additional  measures  are  warranted.  Additional  measures  that  may  be  undertaken  include 
additional  archeological  testing,  archeological  monitoring,  and/or  an  archeological  data 
recovery  program.  If  the  ERO  determines  that  a  significant  archeological  resource  is  present 
and  that  the  resource  could  be  adversely  affected  by  the  proposed  project,  at  the  discretion  of 
the  project  sponsor  either: 

A)  The  proposed  project  shall  be  re-designed  so  as  to  avoid  any  adverse  effect  on  the 
significant  archeological  resource;  or 

B)  A  data  recovery  program  shall  be  implemented,  unless  the  ERO  determines  that  the 
archeological  resource  is  of  greater  interpretive  than  research  significance  and  that 
interpretive  use  of  the  resource  is  feasible. 

Archeological  Monitoring  Program.  If  the  ERO  in  consultation  with  the  archeological 
consultant  determines  that  an  archeological  monitoring  program  shall  be  implemented  the 
archeological  monitoring  program  shall  minimally  include  the  following  provisions: 

The  archeological  consultant,  project  sponsor,  and  ERO  shall  meet  and  consult  on  the 
scope  of  the  AMP  reasonably  prior  to  any  project-related  soils  disturbing  activities 
commencing.  The  ERO  in  consultation  with  the  archeological  consultant  shall 
determine  what  project  activities  shall  be  archeologically  monitored.  In  most  cases, 
any  soils-disturbing  activities,  such  as  demolition,  foundation  removal,  excavation, 
grading,  utilities  installation,  foundation  work,  driving  of  piles  (foundation,  shoring, 
etc.),  site  remediation,  etc.,  shall  require  archeological  monitoring  because  of  the  risk 
these  activities  pose  to  potential  archeological  resources  and  to  their  depositional 
context; 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  C&R.366 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  AND  ERRATA 

•  The  archeological  consultant  shall  advise  all  project  contractors  to  be  on  the  alert  for 
evidence  of  the  presence  of  the  expected  resource(s),  of  how  to  identify  the  evidence 
of  the  expected  resource(s),  and  of  the  appropriate  protocol  in  the  event  of  apparent 
discovery  of  an  archeological  resource; 

The  archeological  monitor(s)  shall  be  present  on  the  project  site  according  to  a 
schedule  agreed  upon  by  the  archeological  consultant  and  the  ERO  until  the  ERO  has, 
in  consultation  with  project  archeological  consultant,  determined  that  project 
construction  activities  could  have  no  effects  on  significant  archeological  deposits; 

The  archeological  monitor  shall  record  and  be  authorized  to  collect  soil  samples  and 
artifactual/ecofactual  material  as  warranted  for  analysis; 

If  an  intact  archeological  deposit  were  encountered,  all  soils-disturbing  activities  in 
the  vicinity  of  the  deposit  shall  cease.  The  archeological  monitor  shall  be  empowered 
to  temporarily  redirect  demolition/excavation/pile  driving/  construction  activities  and 
equipment  until  the  deposit  is  evaluated.  If  in  the  case  of  pile  driving  activity 
(foundation,  shoring,  etc.),  the  archeological  monitor  has  cause  to  believe  that  the  pile 
driving  activity  may  affect  an  archeological  resource,  the  pile  driving  activity  shall  be 
terminated  until  an  appropriate  evaluation  of  the  resource  has  been  made  in 
consultation  with  the  ERO.  The  archeological  consultant  shall  immediately  notify 
the  ERO  of  the  encountered  archeological  deposit.  The  archeological  consultant  shall 
make  a  reasonable  effort  to  assess  the  identity,  integrity,  and  significance  of  the 
encountered  archeological  deposit,  and  present  the  findings  of  this  assessment  to  the 
ERO. 

Whether  or  not  significant  archeological  resources  are  encountered,  the  archeological 
consultant  shall  submit  a  report  of  the  findings  of  the  monitoring  program  to  the  ERO. 

Archeological  Data  Recovery  Program.  The  archeological  data  recovery  program  shall  be 
conducted  in  accord  with  an  archeological  data  recovery  plan  (ADRP).  The  archeological 
consultant,  project  sponsor,  and  ERO  shall  meet  and  consult  on  the  scope  of  the  ADRP  prior 
to  preparation  of  a  draft  ADRP.  The  archeological  consultant  shall  submit  a  draft  ADRP  to 
the  ERO.  The  ADRP  shall  identify  how  the  proposed  data  recovery  program  will  preserve 
the  significant  information  the  archeological  resource  is  expected  to  contain.  That  is,  the 
ADRP  will  identify  what  scientific/historical  research  questions  are  applicable  to  the 
expected  resource,  what  data  classes  the  resource  is  expected  to  possess,  and  how  the 
expected  data  classes  would  address  the  applicable  research  questions.  Data  recovery,  in 
general,  should  be  limited  to  the  portions  of  the  historical  property  that  could  be  adversely 
affected  by  the  proposed  project.  Destructive  data  recovery  methods  shall  not  be  applied  to 
portions  of  the  archeological  resources  if  nondestructive  methods  are  practical. 

The  scope  of  the  ADRP  shall  include  the  following  elements: 

Field  Methods  and  Procedures.  Descriptions  of  proposed  field  strategies, 
procedures,  and  operations. 

Cataloguing  and  Laboratory  Analysis.  Description  of  selected  cataloguing  system 
and  artifact  analysis  procedures. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.367 


July  28,  2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  AND  ERRATA 

•  Discard  and  Deaccession  Policy.  Description  of  and  rationale  for  field  and  post-field 
discard  and  deaccession  policies. 

•  Interpretive  Program.     Consideration  of  an  on-site/off-site  public  interpretive 
program  during  the  course  of  the  archeological  data  recovery  program. 

•  Security  Measures.    Recommended  security  measures  to  protect  the  archeological 
resource  from  vandalism,  looting,  and  nonintentionally  damaging  activities. 

Final  Report.  Description  of  proposed  report  format  and  distribution  of  results. 

Curation.  Description  of  the  procedures  and  recommendations  for  the  curation  of 
any  recovered  data  having  potential  research  value,  identification  of  appropriate 
curation  facilities,  and  a  summary  of  the  accession  policies  of  the  curation  facilities. 

Human  Remains  and  Associated  or  Unassociated  Funerary  Objects.  The  treatment  of  human 
remains  and  of  associated  or  unassociated  funerary  objects  discovered  during  any  soils 
disturbing  activity  shall  comply  with  applicable  State  and  Federal  laws.  This  shall  include 
immediate  notification  of  the  Coroner  of  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  and  in  the 
event  of  the  Coroner's  determination  that  the  human  remains  are  Native  American  remains, 
notification  of  the  California  State  Native  American  Heritage  Commission  (NAHC),  which 
shall  appoint  a  Most  Likely  Descendant  (MLD)  (Public  Resource  Code  Section  5097.98). 
The  archeological  consultant,  project  sponsor,  and  MLD  shall  make  all  reasonable  efforts  to 
develop  an  agreement  for  the  treatment  of,  with  appropriate  dignity,  human  remains  and 
associated  or  unassociated  funerary  objects  (CEQA  Guidelines,  Section  15064.5(d)).  The 
agreement  should  take  into  consideration  the  appropriate  excavation,  removal,  recordation, 
analysis,  custodianship,  curation,  and  final  disposition  of  the  human  remains  and  associated 
or  unassociated  funerary  objects. 

Final  Archeological  Resources  Report.  The  archeological  consultant  shall  submit  a  Draft 
Final  Archeological  Resources  Report  (FARR)  to  the  ERO  that  evaluates  the  historical 
significance  of  any  discovered  archeological  resource  and  describes  the  archeological  and 
historical  research  methods  employed  in  the  archeological  testing/monitoring/data  recovery 
program(s)  undertaken.  Information  that  may  put  at  risk  any  archeological  resource  shall  be 
provided  in  a  separate  removable  insert  within  the  final  report. 

Once  approved  by  the  ERO,  copies  of  the  FARR  shall  be  distributed  as  follows:  California 
Archeological  Site  Survey  Northwest  Information  Center  (NWIC)  shall  receive  one  (1)  copy 
and  the  ERO  shall  receive  a  copy  of  the  transmittal  of  the  FARR  to  the  NWIC.  The  Major 
Environmental  Analysis  division  of  the  Planning  Department  shall  receive  three  copies  of  the 
FARR  along  with  copies  of  any  formal  site  recordation  forms  (CA  DPR  523  series)  and/or 
documentation  for  nomination  to  the  National  Register  of  Historic  Places/California  Register 
of  Historical  Resources.  In  instances  of  high  public  interest  in  or  the  high  interpretive  value 
of  the  resource,  the  ERO  may  require  a  different  final  report  content,  format,  and  distribution 
than  that  presented  above. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


C&R.368 


July  28, 2005 


VII.  Comments  and  Responses 

STAFF-INITIATED  TEXT  CHANGES  AND  ERRATA 

Appendices  A,  B  and  C  from  the  Comments  and  Responses  document  are  included  in  this  Final  EIR 
as  Appendices  E,  F,  and  G. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.369 


July  28,  2005 


Home  Depot 


July  28, 2005  p^R  170  '  Final  Environmental  Impact  Report 

2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Street  l.ocix.j/v 


•  VIII.  EIR  AUTHORS 


EIR  Authors 

Planning  Department,  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco 

Major  Environmental  Analysis 

1660  Mission  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

Environmental  Review  Officer:  Paul  E.  Maltzer 

EIR  Coordinator:  Tammy  Chan 

EIR  Consultants 

During  Associates 

120  Montgomery  Street,  Suite  2290 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 

Stu  During,  Project  Manager 

Michael  Kent 

Lynne  LeRoy 

Morgan  Gillespie 

Archeo-Tec  (Cultural  Resources) 

5283  Broadway 
Oakland,  C A  94618 

Allen  Pastron,  Ph.D. 

Don  Ballanti  (Air  Quality) 

Certified  Meteorologist 

1424  Scott  Street 

El  Cerrito,  CA  94530 

Clement  Designs  (Graphics  Design) 

358  Third  Avenue,  Suite  100 
San  Francisco,  CA  94118 

Kathy  Clement 

Hanna  Norman 

Square  One  Productions  (Photos) 

1736  Stockton  Street,  Studio  7 
San  Francisco,  CA  94133 

Hartmut  H.  Gerdes,  Principal 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


133 


July  28,  2005 


VIII.  EIR  Authors 


ENVIRONMENTAL  CONSULTANTS  (continued) 

Wilbur  Smith  Associates  (Transportation) 

1 145  Market  Street,  10th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

Timothy  Erney 

Ron  Foster 

Project  Sponsor 

The  Home  Depot 

3800  West  Chapman  Avenue 
Orange,  CA  92968 

Mike  Abbate 

Patrick  McGaughey 

Project  Attorney 

Cassidy  Shimko  &  Dawson 

20  California  Street,  Suite  500 
San  Francisco,  CA  941 1 1 
Anna  Shimko 

Project  Architects 

Greenberg  Farrow  Architecture 

15101  Red  Hill  Avenue,  Suite  200 
Tustin,  CA  92780 
Frank  Coda 

Organizations  and  Persons  Consulted 

City  and  County  of  San  Francisco 

Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic,  Traffic  Engineering  Division 
Jack  Fleck 
Gerald  Robbins 

Municipal  Transportation  Agency  (MUNI) 
Jim  Lowe 


2001.0062E  491  Baysliore/ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


134 


•  IX.  APPENDICES 


The  following  appendices  are  provided  as  Volume  2  of  this  Environmental  Impact  Report: 


Appendix  A: 

Initial  Study 

Appendix  B: 

Intersection  Level  of  Service  Designations 

Appendix  C: 

Diesel  Exhaust  Particulate  Health  Risk  Assessment 

Appendix  D: 

Distribution  List 

• 

Appendix  E: 

Comment  Letters 

• 

Appendix  F: 

Transcript  of  Draft  EIR  Public  Hearing  and  Index  of  Speakers 

• 

Appendix  G: 

Community  Commitments  of  Home  Depot,  U.S.A.,  Inc. 

2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Street 


135 


July  28,  2005 


This  Environmental  Impact  Report  has  been  published  in  two  volumes: 
Volume  1  includes  the  Environmental  Impact  Report 
and  Volume  2  includes  the  EIR's  appendices  and  Comment  Letters. 


