SAN  FRANCISCO  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  1223  07389  4751 


FINAL    ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT 


CITY  AND  COUNTY  OF  SAN 


491  Bayshore  Boulevard, 
Home  Depot 

2001.0062E 
State  Clearinghouse  No.  2000032010 

VOLUME  2 


DOCUMENTS  DEPT. 

AUG  1  4  2006 

SAN  FRANCISCO 
PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Draft  EIR  Publication  Date:  March  29,  2003 
Draft  EIR  Public  Hearing  Date:  July  10,  2003 
Draft  EIR  Public  Comment  Period:  March  29  -  July  11,  2003 
Final  EIR  Certification  Date:  July  28,  2005 


Changes  from  the  text  of  the  Draft  EIR  are  indicated  by  solid  dots  (•) 
at  the  beginning  of  each  revised  section,  paragraph,  graphic,  or  table. 
Specific  edits  (with  new  and  deleted  changes)  are  shown  in  Chapter  VII 

Section  E. 


5/S 


San  Francisco  Public  Library 

Government  Information  Center 
San  Francisco  Public  Library 
100  Larkin  Street,  5th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

REFERENCE  BOOK 

Not  to  be  taken  from  the  Library 


City  and  County  of  San  Francisco 
Planning  Department 


Volume  2 


491  BAYSHORE  BOULEVARD, 
HOME  DEPOT  

FINAL 

ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT 
2001.0062E 

State  Clearinghouse  No.  2000032010 


Draft  EIR  Publication  Date:  March  29,  2003 

Draft  EIR  Public  Hearing  Date:  July  10,  2003 

Draft  EIR  Public  Comment  Period:  March  29  -  July  1 1 ,  2003 

Final  EIR  Certification  Date:  July  28,  2005 


II 


This  Environmental  Impact  Report  has  been  published  in  two  volumes: 
Volume  1  includes  the  Environmental  Impact  Report 
and  Volume  2  includes  the  EIR's  appendices  and  Comment  Letters. 


I 


•  IX.  APPENDICES 


Table  of  Contents 

Page 

IX.  Appendices 

A.  Initial  Study  A-l 

B.  Intersection  Level  of  Service  Designations  B-l 

C.  Diesel  Exhaust  Health  Risk  Assessment  C-l 

D.  Distribution  List  D-l 

#  E.        Comment  Letters  E-l 

9         F.         Transcript  of  Draft  EIR  Public  Hearing  and  Index  of  Speakers  F-l 

•  G.         Community  Commitments  of  Home  Depot,  U.S.A.,  Inc  G-l 


! 

I 

I 

! 

I 


Appendix  A 


Initial  Study 


NOTICE  THAT  AN 
ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT 
IS  DETERMINED  TO  BE  REQUIRED 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


Date  of  this  Notice:  March  9,  2002 


Lead  Agency: 


San  Francisco  Planning  Department 

1660  Mission  Street,  Suite  500 

San  Francisco,  California  94103-2414 


Agency  Contact  Person:  Tammy  Chan 


Telephone:  (415)  558-5982 


Project  Title:  2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore  Boulevard,  Home  Depot 
Project  Sponsor:  Home  Depot,  U.S.A.,  Inc. 

Project  Contact  Person:  Anna  Shimko,  Cassidy  Shimko  &  Dawson,  LLP 


Telephone:  (415)  788-2040 


Project  Address:  491  Bayshore  Boulevard  /196  Loomis  Ave 

Assessor's  Block  and  Lot:  Block  5598,  Lots  8,  9,  11,  13,  15,  16,  18,  21,  and  28 

City  and  County:  San  Francisco 


Project  Description:  The  proposed  project  consists  of  demolition  of  the  vacant  buildings,  totaling  1 07,372  square 
feet  (sq.ft.),  and  construction  of  a  home  improvement  store  (Home  Depot).  The  main  store  would  be  two  stories, 
with  approximately  96,250  sq.ft.  on  the  main  floor,  and  38,405  sq.ft.  on  the  second  floor,  and  a  9,888-sq  -ft. 
enclosed  green  house.  The  proposed  project  also  includes  an  approximately  8,546-sq.ft.  outdoor-garden  center. 
The  total  retail  space  would  be  approximately  153,089  sq.ft.  A  separate  parking  garage  consisting  of  two  levels 
plus  rooftop  parking  totaling  550  parking  spaces  would  also  be  constructed  on  this  5.73-acre  site.  The  buildings 
would  be  approximately  40  feet  in  height.  Vehicular  access  to  the  parking  garage  would  be  from  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  where  Cortland  Avenue  dead-ends  into  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  secondary  access  would  be  on 
Loomis  and  Waterloo  Streets.  Between  the  ground  level  of  the  parking  facility  and  the  store,  a  customer  pick-up 
lane  would  be  provided  with  egress  onto  Bayshore  Boulevard,  just  north  of  the  Cortland  Avenue  intersection.  Four 
general  freight-loading  spaces  would  be  provided.  The  project  is  located  within  the  Bayview-Hunters  Point 
neighborhood.  The  site  is  within  the  Planning  Commission's  adopted  Industrial  Protection  Zone  (IPZ)  and  is 
located  in  an  M-l  (Light  Industrial)  zoning  district  and  within  a  65-J  height  and  bulk  district. 


THIS  PROJECT  MAY  HAVE  A  SIGNIFICANT  EFFECT  ON  THE  ENVIRONMENT  AND  AN 
ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT  IS  REQUIRED.  This  determination  is  based  upon  the  criteria  of 
the  State  CEQA  Guidelines,  Section  15063  (Initial  Study),  15064  (Determining  Significant  Effect),  and  15065 
(Mandatory  Findings  of  Significance),  and  the  following  reasons,  as  documented  in  the  Environmental  Evaluation 
(Initial  Study)  for  the  project,  which  is  attached. 


Deadline  for  Filing  of  an  Appeal  of  this  Determination  to  the  Planning  Commission  is  March  29, 2002  at  5 :00  p.  m. . 
An  appeal  requires:  (1)  a  letter  specifying  the  grounds  for  the  appeal,  and  (2)  a  $209.00  filing  fee. 


Environmental  Review  Officer 
Planning  Department 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-1 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


INITIAL  STUDY1 
2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore,  Home  Depot 

I.        PROJECT  DESCRIPTION  AND  SETTING 

A.  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

The  project  site  is  located  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard/196  Loomis  Ave,  on  Assessor's  Block  5598,  Lots  8,  9,  11, 
13, 15,  16, 18, 21,  and  28,  which  totals  249,699  sq.ft.  or  approximately  5.73  acres.  The  site  is  part  of  the  major  City 
block  bounded  by  a  one-story  industrial  building  to  the  north,  Waterloo  Street  to  the  south,  Loomis  Avenue  to  the 
east,  and  Bayshore  Boulevard  to  the  west  in  an  industrial  area  of  San  Francisco  (Figure  1,  page  3). 

Two  buildings  currently  exist  on  the  site,  both  of  which  are  vacant.  Goodman's  Lumber  Company  previously 
operated  a  76,846-sq.-ft.  home  improvement  and  building  supply  store  on  a  portion  of  the  site  while  Whole  Earth 
Access,  a  retail  home  furnishing  and  supply  store,  operated  out  of  the  second  building,  which  was  approximately 
30,500  sq.ft.  Whole  Earth  occupied  its  portion  of  the  property  until  June  of  1999  and  Goodman's  Lumber  Company 
ceased  its  operation  in  August  of  2000.  The  property  has  been  vacant  since. 

The  proposed  project  is  to  demolish  the  two  existing  buildings  and  construct  a  two-story,  approximately  1 53,089-sq.- 
ft.  home  improvement  store.  The  main  store  would  be  two  stories,  with  approximately  96,250  sq.ft.  on  the  main 
floor,  and  38,405  sq.ft.  on  the  second  floor,  and  a  9,888-sq.-ft.  enclosed  greenhouse  (Figures  2, 3, 4, 5,  and  6,  pages 
4  to  8).  The  proposed  project  also  includes  an  approximately  8,546-sq.-ft.  outdoor-garden  center.  A  separate  550- 
space,  two-story  parking  garage  plus  rooftop  parking  would  also  be  constructed.  The  buildings  would  be 
approximately  40  feet  in  height.  There  would  be  an  approximately  41/2-foot  tall  wall  with  a  6-foot  trellis  along  the 
periphery  of  the  roof  to  shield  the  views  of  parked  cars.  Vehicular  access  to  the  parking  facility  would  be  from 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  where  Cortland  Avenue  dead  ends  into  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  from  Loomis  and  Waterloo 
Streets.  Traffic  signals  and  pedestrian  crosswalks  would  be  installed  at  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue, 
a  left-turn  pocket  would  be  created  for  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard  traffic  to  enter  the  project  site,  and  just  north 
of  the  project  site,  the  median  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  would  be  changed  to  allow  northbound  traffic  to  make  U- 
Turns.  Development  of  the  site  would  require  excavation  of  approximately  8,500  cubic  yards  of  soil  for  footings 
and  foundation.  The  foundation  system  would  include  pile  driving. 

B.  PROJECT  SETTING 

The  project  site  consists  of  nine  lots.  Adjacent  to  the  project  site  at  the  north  end  of  this  block,  there  are  three 
buildings  (a  masonry  supply  warehouse  and  storage  lot,  a  commercial  retail  and  parking  lot  and  a  fast  food 
restaurant).  The  project  site  is  located  in  an  M-l  (Light  Industrial)  zoning  district  in  the  Bayview-Hunters  Point 
neighborhood. 


1  A  Preliminary  Mitigated  Negative  Declaration  was  published  on  September  29,  2001  and  appealed  to 
the  Planning  Commission.  Upon  further  analysis,  the  Planning  Department  determined  that  an  Environmental 
Impact  Report  (EIR)  was  required.  The  issues  raised  in  the  appeals  will  be  addressed  in  the  EIR. 


2001.0062E-491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-2 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-3 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


200 1 .0062E-  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Avenue  A-4 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-5 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-6 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-7 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-8 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


The  zoning  on  this  block  of  Bayshore  Boulevard,  as  well  as  within  one  block  of  the  project  site  (i.e.,  within  an  area 
encompassing  nine  blocks,  with  the  subject  block  at  the  center),  is  M- 1 .  The  nearest  residential  development  is  west 
of  Bayshore  Avenue  and  west  of  U.S.  101  in  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood,  about  three  blocks  from  the  project 
site. 

The  buildings  in  the  general  area  range  from  one  to  two  stories,  large  in  mass/bulk,  with  a  mix  of  commercial 
activity,  both  industrial  and  retail  in  character.  Some  of  the  uses  located  immediately  adjacent  to  the  project  site 
include  fast  food,  auto  body  repair,  and  warehouse.  Bayshore  Builder's,  a  building  supply  warehouse,  is  located  to 
the  south,  across  Waterloo  Street.  Several  industrial-type  businesses  are  located  east  of  the  property  across  Loomis 
Street.  A  Jack  in  the  Box  and  various  one-and  two-story  industrial  buildings,  home  supply  stores,  and  retail 
warehouses  are  located  to  the  west  side,  across  Bayshore  Boulevard.  In  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site,  U.S.  101  has 
north  and  southbound  off  ramps  at  Silver  Avenue,  1-280  has  on  and  off  ramps  west  of  Alemany  Boulevard/Industrial 
Street.  U.S.  101  and  1-280  merge  at  Cesar  Chavez  Street  just  south  of  the  project  site  at  the  Alemany  interchange. 
Cortland  Avenue  is  the  principal  street  through  Bernal  Heights  and  serves  to  connect  Mission  Street  and  Bayshore 
Boulevard.  The  subject  site  is  on  the  eastern  edge  of  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood  but  is  considered  to  be  in  the 
Bayview/Hunter's  Point  District  of  San  Francisco. 

II.  SUMMARY  OF  POTENTIAL  ENVIRONMENTAL  EFFECTS 

A.  EFFECTS  FOUND  TO  BE  POTENTIALLY  SIGNIFICANT 

The  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue,  a  retail  home  improvement  and  supply 
store,  is  examined  in  this  Initial  Study  to  identify  potential  effects  on  the  environment.  On  the  basis  of  this  study, 
project-specific  effects  and  cumulative  impacts  that  relate  to  transportation  and  air  quality  have  been  determined  to 
be  potentially  significant,  and  will  be  analyzed  in  an  Environmental  Impact  Report  (EIR).  In  addition,  the  EIR  will 
provide  additional  discussion  of  land  use  and  hazards  for  informational  purposes,  although  the  impacts  are 
determined  in  this  Initial  Study  to  be  less  than  significant. 

B.  EFFECTS  FOUND  NOT  TO  BE  SIGNIFICANT 

The  following  potential  environmental  effects  were  determined  either  to  be  less  than  significant  or  to  be  reduced  to 
a  less  than  significant  level  through  mitigation  measures  included  in  the  Initial  Study  and  project.  These  items  are 
discussed  in  Section  III  below,  and  require  no  further  environmental  analysis  in  the  EIR:  land  use,  population,  visual 
quality  and  glare,  shadow,  wind,  noise,  utilities/public  services,  biology,  geology/topography,  water,  energy/natural 
resources,  lead  paint  and  asbestos  hazards,  and  cultural  resources. 

III.  ENVIRONMENTAL  EVALUATION  CHECKLIST  AND  DISCUSSION 

A.  COMPATIBILITY  WITH  ZONING,  PLANS  AND  POLICIES  N/A  Discussed 

1 .  Discuss  any  variances,  special  authorizations,  changes  proposed 

to  the  City  Planning  Code  or  Zoning  Map,  if  applicable.  □  ■ 

2.  Discuss  any  conflicts  with  any  other  adopted  environmental  plans 

and  goals  of  the  City  or  Region,  if  applicable.  □  ■ 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-9 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


The  San  Francisco  Planning  Code,  which  incorporates  by  reference  the  City's  Zoning  Maps,  governs  permitted  uses, 
densities,  and  the  configuration  of  buildings  within  San  Francisco.  Permits  to  construct  new  buildings  (or  to  alter 
or  demolish  existing  ones)  may  not  be  issued  unless  either  the  proposed  project  conforms  to  the  Code,  or  an 
exception  is  granted  pursuant  to  provisions  of  the  Code.  The  project  would  not  require  any  exceptions  from  the  City 
Planning  Code. 

The  project  site  is  located  in  an  M-l  (Light  Industrial)  zoning  district  in  the  Bayview  Area.  This  site  is  also  within 
a  65-J  height  and  bulk  district  where  heights  up  to  65  feet  may  be  permitted.  Bulk  restrictions  include  a  maximum 
building  length  of  250  feet  and  a  maximum  diagonal  length  of  300  feet.  These  restrictions  would  only  apply  if 
portions  of  the  buildings  exceeded  40  feet  in  height  from  the  base  of  the  buildings.  The  proposed  new  structures 
would  be  less  than  40  feet  in  height,  thus,  the  bulk  restriction  would  not  apply.  The  site  is  also  within  the  Planning 
Commission' s  adopted  Industrial  Protection  Zone  (IPZ),  and  the  proposed  project  would  be  a  permitted  use.  Because 
the  proposed  development  is  not  an  office,  housing  and/or  live/work,  the  mandatory  discretionary  review  that  is 
required  under  the  IPZ  resolution  would  not  apply.  The  proposed  construction  of  more  than  148,000  square  feet  of 
retail  space,  if  approved,  would  be  subject  to  the  application  of  the  Jobs-Housing  Linkage  Program  (Planning  Code 
Section  313),  which  would  require  the  project  sponsor  to  construct  affordable  housing  or  to  subsidize  development 
of  affordable  housing  by  others. 

Environmental  plans  and  policies  are  those,  like  the  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Plan,  that  directly  address  environmental 
issues  and/or  contain  targets  or  standards  which  must  be  met  in  order  to  preserve  or  improve  characteristics  of  the 
City's  physical  environment.  The  EIR  will  address  these  plans  and  policies  and  note  whether  the  proposed  project 
would  obviously  or  substantially  conflict  with  them. 

The  City's  General  Plan,  which  provides  general  policies  and  objectives  to  guide  land  use  decisions,  contains  some 
policies  that  relate  to  physical  environmental  issues.  The  current  project  would  not  obviously  or  substantially 
conflict  with  any  such  policy.  In  general,  potential  conflicts  with  the  General  Plan  are  considered  by  decision  makers 
independently  of  the  environmental  review  process,  as  part  of  the  decision  whether  to  approve  or  disapprove  a 
proposed  project.  Any  potential  conflict  not  identified  here  could  be  considered  in  that  context,  and  would  not  alter 
the  physical  environmental  effects  of  the  proposed  project. 

In  November  1986,  the  voters  of  San  Francisco  approved  Proposition  M,  the  Accountable  Planning  Initiative,  which 
added  Section  101.1  to  the  City  Planning  Code  to  establish  eight  Priority  Policies.  These  policies  are:  preservation 
and  enhancement  of  neighborhood-serving  retail  uses;  protection  of  neighborhood  character;  preservation  and 
enhancement  of  affordable  housing;  discouragement  of  commuter  automobiles;  protection  of  industrial  and  service 
land  uses  from  commercial  office  development  and  enhancement  of  resident  employment  and  business  ownership; 
maximization  of  earthquake  preparedness;  landmark  and  historic  building  preservation;  and  protection  of  open  space. 
Prior  to  issuing  a  permit  for  any  project  that  requires  an  Initial  Study  under  CEQA,  and  prior  to  issuing  a  permit  for 
any  demolition,  conversion,  or  change  of  use,  and  prior  to  taking  any  action  which  requires  a  finding  of  consistency 
with  the  General  Plan,  the  City  is  required  to  find  that  the  proposed  project  or  legislation  is  consistent  with  the 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-10 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


Priority  Policies.  In  reviewing  the  building  permit  and  discretionary  review  applications  for  the  proposed  project, 
the  Planning  Department  would  evaluate  the  necessary  findings  of  consistency  with  the  Priority  Policies. 

The  proposed  project  is  in  the  San  Francisco  Redevelopment  Agency's  South  Bayshore  Survey  Area.  A  Concept 
Plan  for  the  area  is  in  process  and  the  project  site  is  in  a  sub-area  proposed  for  continued  retail  commercial  use. 

The  Planning  Commission  must  certify  the  EIR  as  a  complete  and  accurate  environmental  document  for  the  project 
prior  to  taking  any  approval  actions.  There  are  no  specific  approvals  necessary  for  the  project ,  however,  the  project 
may  be  subject  to  staff-initiated  discretionary  review  by  the  Planning  Commission.  The  relationship  of  the  project 
to  Planning  Code  requirements  will  be  described  in  the  EIR. 

B.  ENVIRONMENTAL  EFFECTS 

All  items  except  Transportation/Circulation  and  Air  Quality  on  the  Initial  Study  Environmental  Evaluation  Checklist 
have  been  checked  "No,"  indicating  that,  upon  evaluation,  staff  has  determined  that  the  proposed  project  could  not 
have  a  significant  adverse  environmental  effect.  For  items  where  the  conclusion  is  "To  be  Determined,"  the  analysis 
will  be  included  in  the  EIR.  Several  of  the  Checklist  items  have  been  checked  "Discussed,"  indicating  that  the  Initial 
Study  text  includes  discussion  about  that  particular  issue.  For  all  of  the  items  checked  "No"  without  a  discussion, 
the  conclusions  regarding  potential  significant  adverse  environmental  effects  are  based  on  field  observation,  staff 
experience  and  expertise  on  similar  projects,  and/or  standard  reference  material  available  within  the  Planning 
Department  such  as  the  Department's  Transportation  Guidelines for  Environmental  Review,  or  the  California  Natural 
Diversity  Data  Base  and  maps,  published  by  the  California  Department  of  Fish  and  Game.  For  each  Checklist  item, 
staff  considered  both  the  individual  and  cumulative  impacts  of  the  proposed  project. 

Land  Use  -  Could  the  project:  Yes       No  Discussed 

a.  Disrupt  or  divide  the  physical  arrangement  of  an 

established  community?  □         ■  ■ 

b.  Have  any  substantial  impact  upon  the  existing  character 

of  the  vicinity?  □         ■  ■ 

The  proposed  use  would  be  similar  to  some  of  the  uses  formerly  existing  at  the  site.  Goodman's  Lumber  Company 
was  a  retail  home  improvement  and  building  supply  store  that  included  an  outdoor-garden  center.  Whole  Earth 
Access  was  a  retail  store  that  sold  home  furnishings,  appliances,  books,  computers,  kitchen  accessories  and  clothing. 
The  proposed  project  would  be  a  retail  home  improvement  and  supply  store  that  includes  an  outdoor-garden  center. 
The  existing  buildings  on  the  site  total  approximately  107,000  sq.ft.  and  the  new  proposal  would  be  about  1 53, 100 
sq.ft.  The  proposed  project  would  be  a  larger  development  that  would  contain  some  of  the  previous  uses  on  the  site, 
and  would  increase  the  density  of  uses,  number  of  customers  and  amount  of  vehicles  on  the  site.  The  proposed 
project,  however,  would  not  essentially  change  the  existing  retail/light  industrial  character  or  physical  arrangement 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-ll 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 

of  the  area.  The  use  would  be  generally  compatible  with  the  mix  of  surrounding  commercial  and  industrial  uses  in 
a  dense  urban  area. 

In  conclusion,  the  proposed  project  would  not  result  in  significant  adverse  land  use  impacts.  The  EIR,  however,  will 
discuss  land  use  issues  for  context  and  informational  purposes. 

Yes        No  Discussed 

2.    Visual  Quality  -  Could  the  project: 

a.  Have  a  substantial,  demonstrable  negative  aesthetic  effect?  □         ■  ■ 

b.  Substantially  degrade  or  obstruct  any  scenic  view  or  vista 

now  observed  from  public  areas?  □         ■  ■ 

c.  Generate  obtrusive  light  or  glare  substantially  impacting 

other  properties?  □         ■  ■ 

The  visual  character  of  the  site  would  change  with  the  construction  of  the  new  buildings.  The  proposed  40-foot  high 
buildings  would  be  the  largest  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  in  the  surrounding  area.  The  project  area  has  an 
industrial/commercial  setting,  and  the  proposed  project  would  be  similar  in  character  to  other  buildings  in  the  area. 
The  proposed  buildings  would  also  be  similar  in  height  to  most  other  buildings  in  the  immediate  project  area,  but 
would  be  larger  in  bulk.  The  proposed  project,  however,  would  not  have  a  substantial,  demonstrable  negative 
aesthetic  effect  within  its  urban  commercial  and  light  industrial  setting.  The  EIR  will  address  the  design  of  the 
project  in  relation  to  the  proposed  Industrial  Area  Design  Guidelines  for  the  South  Bayshore  Area  Plan. 

There  is  no  existing  scenic  view  or  vista  visible  from  the  project  site  or  its  vicinity;  therefore,  the  proposed  project 
would  not  block  or  degrade  any  existing  or  public  scenic  views  or  vistas.  The  nearest  residential  development  is  west 
of  Bayshore  Avenue  in  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood.  The  neighborhood  is  situated  on  a  hill,  at  a  higher 
elevation,  therefore,  the  proposed  project  would  not  be  expected  to  block  or  significantly  modify  existing  private 
views  from  residents  in  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood.  It  would,  however,  at  least  partially  block  or  modify 
existing  private  views  from  some  other  buildings  near  the  site.  Given  the  mixed-use  urban  nature  of  the  project's 
setting,  the  potential  blockage  of  private  views  would  not  be  considered  a  significant  effect  within  the  context  of 
CEQA. 

The  project  would  comply  with  Planning  Commission  Resolution  9212,  which  prohibits  the  use  of  mirrored  or 
reflective  glass.  Thus,  the  project  would  not  result  in  the  production  of  additional  obtrusive  glare  affecting  other 
properties.  The  project  would  continue  to  emit  relatively  low  levels  of  light,  similar  to  those  generated  in  the  past 
by  the  existing  structures,  and  would  not  substantially  increase  ambient  light  levels  in  the  project  area.  An 
approximately  4 '/2-foot  tall  wall  with  a  6-foot  trellis  containing  screening  plants  would  be  constructed  along  the 
periphery  of  the  roof  to  shield  the  glare  of  parked  cars  and  headlights  from  the  surrounding  neighborhood.  The 
lighting  for  the  rooftop  parking  would  be  directed  downward  away  from  the  residences  on  Bernal  Heights.  Project 
light  and  glare  would  not  result  in  adverse  effects  on  nearby  residents  or  businesses. 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshorc/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-12 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


Because  of  the  size  and  location  of  the  proposed  project,  the  effects  on  visual  quality  would  not  be  considered 
significant  and  will  not  be  addressed  in  the  EIR. 


Yes        No  Discussed 

3.    Population  -  Could  the  project: 

a.  Induce  substantial  growth  or  concentration  of  population?  □  ■  ■ 

b.  Displace  a  large  number  of  people  (involving  either  housing 

or  employment)?  □         ■  ■ 

c.  Create  a  substantial  demand  for  additional  housing  in 

San  Francisco,  or  substantially  reduce  the  housing  supply?  □         ■  ■ 

The  property  has  been  vacant  since  August  of 2000.  Since  the  site  is  vacant,  no  job  or  housing  displacement  would 
occur  with  project  implementation.  It  is  expected  that  the  proposed  project  would  employ  approximately  275  to  300 
employees  which  would  be  drawn  from  the  existing  City  and  regional  labor  pool.2  The  project  could  generate  as 
many  as  2,500  to  3,000  shoppers  per  day,  and  would  increase  the  concentration  of  people  on  the  project  site.  While 
potentially  noticeable  to  the  immediately  adjacent  neighborhood,  the  anticipated  increase  of  population  on  the  site 
would  not  substantially  increase  the  existing  area- wide  concentration  of  industrial  activities  or  population,  because 
the  project  area  is  a  dense  and  populated  urban  area. 


San  Francisco's  employment  is  projected  to  grow  from  about  535,000  employees  to  about  673,500  employees  in 
2015,  an  increase  of  26  percent.3  Therefore,  project  related  employment  growth  would  constitute  about  0.2  percent 
of  citywide  employment  growth  by  the  year  2015.  This  potential  increase  in  employment  would  be  minimal  in  the 
context  of  the  total  employment  in  greater  San  Francisco. 

An  estimated  3 1 1 ,340  households  resided  in  San  Francisco  in  1 995 .  By  20 1 5,  San  Francisco  households  are  expected 
to  increase  by  32,309  households,  a  10  percent  increase.4  Based  on  a  nexus  study  prepared  for  the  Jobs-Housing 
Linkage  Program,  the  project  would  create  a  demand  for  about  85  dwelling  units.5  Housing  demand  in  and  of  itself 
is  not  a  physical  environmental  effect  under  CEQA.  Nonetheless,  under  the  current  requirements  of  Section  3 1 3  of 


Estimated  employee  figure  provided  by  the  project  sponsor  based  on  other  store  locations. 

Keyser  Marston  Associates,  Inc.,  San  Francisco  Cumulative  Growth  Scenario:  Final  Technical 
Memorandum,  prepared  for  the  San  Francisco  Redevelopment  Agency,  March  30,  1998 

4  Keyer  Marston  Associates,  Inc.,  cited  in  Note  1,  above 

5  This  method  uses  the  estimated  project-related  increase  in  employment  (approximately  250  new 
employees)  multiplied  by  the  fraction  of  San  Francisco  employees  who  live  in  the  City  (55%).  This  result,  the 
approximate  number  of  project-related  employees  who  would  live  in  the  City  (138),  is  divided  by  the  average 
number  of  San  Francisco  workers  in  households  where  San  Francisco  workers  reside  (1.63).  The  estimated 
housing  demand  would  be  85  units  (250  x  0.55  /  1.63  =  85). 


2001.0062E-491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-13 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


the  San  Francisco  Planning  Code,  the  project  sponsor  would  be  required  to  contribute  to  the  affordable  housing 
production  in  San  Francisco,  either  by  directly  constructing  housing  units  or  by  paying  an  in-lieu  fee.  Complying 
with  the  Jobs-Housing  Linkage  Program  is  the  manner  in  which  San  Francisco  typically  addresses  housing  demand 
effects  from  individual  development  projects.  Based  on  the  above  analysis,  population  and  housing  effects  of  the 
proposed  project  would  not  be  a  significant  effect  and  will  not  be  discussed  in  the  EIR. 


Yes        No  Discussed 


4.    Transportation/Circulation  -  Could  the  project: 


a.  Cause  an  increase  in  traffic  which  is  substantial  in  relation 

to  the  existing  traffic  load  and  capacity  of  the  street  system?  To  be  Determined 

b.  Interfere  with  existing  transportation  systems,  causing  substantial 

alterations  to  circulation  patterns  or  major  traffic  hazards?  To  be  Determined 

c.  Cause  a  substantial  increase  in  transit  demand  which  cannot  be 

accommodated  by  existing  or  proposed  transit  capacity?  To  be  Determined 

d.  Cause  a  substantial  increase  in  parking  demand  which  cannot  be 

accommodated  by  existing  parking  facilities?  To  be  Determined 

The  proposed  project  would  include  550  parking  spaces  in  a  three-level  parking  garage  for  customers  and  employees. 
The  increase  in  employees  and  customers  on  the  project  site  would  result  in  increased  demands  on  the  local 
transportation  system,  including  increased  traffic,  transit  demand,  and  parking  demand.  A  Transportation  Study  will 
be  conducted  by  a  transportation  consultant  under  the  supervision  of  the  Planning  Department.  The  study  will 
address  the  impacts  of  the  proposed  project  on  traffic  and  vehicular  circulation,  intersection  operations,  transit, 
pedestrian  circulation,  bicycling,  parking,  and  freight  loading  during  project  construction  and  occupancy.  The 
analysis  will  take  into  account  the  project's  contribution  to  cumulative  traffic  impacts. 

Yes       No  Discussed 

5.    Noise  -  Could  the  project: 

a.  Increase  substantially  the  ambient  noise  levels  for  adjoining 

areas?  □         ■  ■ 

b.  Violate  Title  24  Noise  Insulation  Standards,  if  applicable?  □         ■  ■ 

c.  Be  substantially  impacted  by  existing  noise  levels?  □         ■  ■ 

Ambient  noise  levels  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  are  typical  of  noise  levels  in  industrial  neighborhoods  in  San 
Francisco,  which  are  dominated  by  vehicular  traffic,  including  trucks,  cars,  MUNI  buses,  emergency  vehicles,  new 
construction  in  the  area,  and  industrial  activities.  An  emergency  propane  generator  is  proposed  in  an  enclosed  area 
on  the  project  site.  The  generator  would  be  in-line  with  the  transformers  and  would  not  be  expected  to  exceed 
current  noise  levels.  The  project  would  generate  noise  from  vehicles  arriving  and  departing  from  the  parking 
structure  and  trucks  making  deliveries  to  the  project  site.  In  addition,  there  would  be  noise  emanating  from  the 
outdoor  garden  center.  Project  generated  noise,  however,  would  be  similar  to  the  existing  noise  environment,  which 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-14 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


is  generally  accepted  in  urban  areas.  Title  24  Noise  Insulation  Standards  of  the  California  Government  Code  pertain 
to  residential  use  and  are  not  applicable  to  the  project. 

The  noise  generated  by  occupancy  of  the  proposed  project  would  not  be  considered  a  significant  impact  of  the 
proposed  project  and  will  not  be  discussed  in  the  EIR. 

Construction  Noise 

Construction-related  activities  would  typically  occur  Monday  through  Friday  from  6:00  A.M.  to  5:00  P.M.  It  is 
anticipated  that  construction  activities  may  occur  on  weekends  or  extended  hours  on  weekdays  if  necessary.  The 
construction  period  would  last  approximately  14  to  18  months.  Building  construction  would  require  pile  driving, 
temporarily  increasing  noise  in  the  site  vicinity.  Noise  levels  at  receptors  near  the  project  site  would  depend  on  their 
distance  from  the  source  and  on  the  presence  of  noise  barriers.  To  mitigate  any  impacts  associated  with  noise 
generated  from  pile  driving,  the  project  would  comply  with  regulations  set  forth  in  the  San  Francisco  Noise 
Ordinance  (Article  29  of  the  San  Francisco  Police  Code).  The  Noise  Ordinance  requires  that  construction  work  be 
conducted  in  the  following  manner:  1)  noise  levels  of  construction  equipment,  other  than  impact  tools,  must  not 
exceed  80  decibels  (dBA;  a  unit  of  measure  for  sound  -  "A"  denotes  the  A-weighted  scale,  which  simulates  the 
response  of  the  human  ear  to  various  frequencies  of  sound)  at  a  distance  of  100  feet  from  the  source  (the  equipment 
generating  the  noise);  2)  impact  tools  must  have  intake  and  exhaust  mufflers  that  are  approved  by  the  Director  of 
the  Department  of  Public  Works  to  best  accomplish  maximum  noise  reduction;  and  3)  if  the  noise  from  the 
construction  work  would  exceed  the  ambient  noise  levels  at  the  site  property  line  by  5  dBA,  the  work  must  not  be 
conducted  between  8:00  P.M.  and  7:00  A.M.,  unless  the  Director  of  the  Department  of  Public  Works  authorizes  a 
special  permit  for  conducting  the  work  during  that  period.  During  the  construction  period  for  the  proposed  project, 
construction  noise  and  possibly  vibration  could  be  considered  an  annoyance  by  occupants  of  the  nearby  properties. 

The  Department  of  Building  Inspection  (DBI)  is  responsible  for  enforcing  the  Noise  Ordinance  for  private 
construction  projects  during  normal  business  hours  (8:00  A.M.  to  5:00  P.M.) .  The  Police  Department  is  responsible 
for  enforcing  the  Noise  Ordinance  during  all  other  hours.  The  increase  in  noise  in  the  project  area  during  project 
construction  would  not  be  considered  a  significant  impact  of  the  proposed  project  because  the  construction  noise 
would  be  temporary,  intermittent,  and  restricted  in  occurrence  and  level,  as  the  contractor  would  be  obliged  to 
comply  with  the  City's  Noise  Ordinance. 

Because  project  construction  noise  would  be  temporary  and  intermittent  and  thus  would  not  be  considered 
significant,  construction  noise  requires  no  further  analysis  and  will  not  be  addressed  in  the  EIR. 

Traffic  Noise 

Generally,  traffic  must  double  in  volume  to  produce  a  noticeable  increase  in  noise  levels.  The  project  would  not 
cause  a  doubling  in  traffic  volumes  in  the  project  area,  and  therefore  would  not  cause  a  noticeable  increase  in  the 
ambient  noise  level  in  the  project  vicinity.  Thus,  traffic  noise  will  not  be  discussed  in  the  EIR. 


2001.0062E-491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-15 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


6.    Air  Quality/Climate  -  Could  the  project: 

a.  Violate  any  ambient  air  quality  standard  or  contribute 
substantially  to  an  existing  or  projected  air  quality  violation? 

b.  Expose  sensitive  receptors  to  substantial  pollutant 
concentrations? 

c.  Permeate  its  vicinity  with  objectionable  odors? 

d.  Alter  wind,  moisture  or  temperature  (including  sun  shading 
effects)  so  as  to  substantially  affect  public  areas,  or  change 
the  climate  either  in  the  community  or  region? 


Yes        No  Discussed 


To  be  Determined 

To  be  Determined 
□         ■  I 


□ 


□ 


Air  Quality 

The  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  (BAAQMD)  has  identified  size  thresholds  for  various  land  uses, 
which,  based  on  default  assumptions,  would  result  in  mobile  source  emissions  exceeding  the  District's  threshold  of 
significance  for  nitrogen  oxides  (NOx).6  The  District  recommends  more  detailed  analysis  for  any  project  whose  size 
is  near  or  exceeds  the  threshold  of  80  pounds  per  day  for  ROG  (reactive  organic  gases),  Nox  (nitrogen  oxides)  or 
PM10  (fine  particulate  matter).  The  equivalent  threshold  for  CO  (carbon  monoxide)  is  550  pounds.  The  proposed 
project  could  exceed  the  District's  threshold.  Therefore,  air  quality  impacts,  including  project  construction  and  local 
and  regional  impacts  of  project  operation,  will  be  analyzed  in  the  EIR. 


Odors 

The  proposed  project  would  be  retail  home  improvement  and  supply  store,  and  would  not  contain  products  or 
generate  uses  that  would  permeate  its  vicinity  with  objectionable  odors. 

Shadow 

The  new  buildings  would  shade  adjacent  properties  but  would  not  increase  the  total  amount  of  shading  in  the 
neighborhood  above  levels  that  are  common  and  generally  accepted  in  urban  areas.  Therefore,  shadowing  from  the 
proposed  project  is  not  considered  to  be  a  significant  adverse  impact  on  the  City's  environment.  Section  295  of  the 
City  Planning  Code  was  adopted  in  response  to  Proposition  K  (passed  in  November  1 984)  in  order  to  protect  certain 
public  open  spaces  from  shadowing  by  new  structures  during  the  period  between  one  hour  after  sunrise  and  one  hour 
before  sunset,  year  round.  Section  295  would  not  apply,  because  the  new  proposed  structures  would  not  exceed  40 
feet  in  height. 


Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District,  BAAQMD  CEQA  Guidelines,  Assessing  the  Air  Quality 
Impacts  of  Projects  and  Plans,  April  1996,  Revised  December  1999. 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-16 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


Yes        No  Discussed 


7.    Utilities/Public  Services  -  Could  the  project: 


a.  Breach  published  national,  state  or  local  standards  relating  to 

solid  waste  or  litter  control?  □         ■  □ 

b.  Extend  a  sewer  trunk  line  with  capacity  to  serve  new 

development?  □         ■  □ 

c.  Substantially  increase  demand  for  schools,  recreation  or  other 

public  facilities?  .     □         ■  □ 

d.  Require  major  expansion  of  power,  water,  or  communications 

facilities?  □         ■  ■ 


The  proposed  project  would  increase  demand  for  and  use  of  public  services  and  utilities  on  the  site,  but  not  in  excess 
of  amounts  expected  and  provided  for  in  this  area.  San  Francisco  consumers  have  recently  experienced  rising  energy 
costs  and  uncertainties  regarding  the  supply  of  electricity.  The  root  causes  of  these  conditions  are  under  investigation 
and  are  the  subject  of  much  debate.  Part  of  the  problem  may  be  that  the  State  does  not  generate  sufficient  energy 
to  meet  its  demand  and  must  import  energy  from  outside  sources.  Another  part  of  the  problem  may  be  the  lack  of 
cost  controls  as  a  result  of  deregulation.  The  California  Energy  Commission  (CEC)  is  currently  considering 
applications  for  the  development  of  new  power-generating  facilities  in  San  Francisco,  the  Bay  Area,  and  elsewhere 
in  the  State.  These  facilities  could  supply  additional  energy  to  the  power  supply  "grid"  within  the  next  few  years. 
These  efforts,  together  with  conservation,  will  be  part  of  the  statewide  effort  to  achieve  energy  sufficiency.  The 
project-generated  demand  for  electricity  would  be  negligible  in  the  context  of  overall  demand  within  San  Francisco 
and  the  State,  and  would  not  in  and  of  itself  require  a  major  expansion  of  power  facilities.  Therefore,  the  energy 
demand  associated  with  the  proposed  project  would  not  result  in  a  significant  physical  environmental  effect. 


In  conclusion,  the  proposed  project  would  not  result  in  significant  adverse  impacts  on  public  services  and  utilities. 
Therefore,  the  EIR  will  not  discuss  public  services  and  utilities. 

Yes       No  Discussed 

8.    Biology  -  Could  the  project: 

a.  Substantially  affect  a  rare  or  endangered  species  of  animal 

or  plant,  or  the  habitat  of  the  species?  □         ■  ■ 

b.  Substantially  diminish  habitat  for  fish,  wildlife  or  plants,  or 
interfere  substantially  with  the  movement  of  any  resident  or 

migratory  fish  or  wildlife  species?  □         ■  ■ 

c.  Require  removal  of  substantial  numbers  of  mature,  scenic  trees?  □         ■  □ 


The  site  is  within  a  developed  area  of  the  City,  and  does  not  provide  habitat  for  any  rare  or  endangered  plant  or 
animal  species.  No  other  important  biological  resources  are  likely  since  the  site  has  been  disturbed  by  humans  for 


2001.0062E-491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-17 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 

many  years.  No  trees  would  be  removed.  In  conclusion,  the  proposed  project  would  not  result  in  significant  adverse 
impacts  on  biology.  Therefore,  the  EIR  will  not  discuss  biology. 

Yes       No  Discussed 

9.    Geology/Topography  -  Could  the  project: 

a.  Expose  people  or  structures  to  major  geologic  hazards  (slides, 

subsidence,  erosion  and  liquefaction)?  □         ■  ■ 

b.  Change  substantially  the  topography  or  any  unique  geologic  or 

physical  features  of  the  site?  □         ■  □ 

The  project  site  is  in  a  Special  Geologic  Study  Area  as  shown  in  Map  3  in  the  Community  Safety  Element  of  the  San 
Francisco  General  Plan.  This  map  indicates  areas  in  which  one  or  more  geologic  hazards  exist.  The  project  sponsor 
has  provided  a  geotechnical  investigation  report  prepared  by  a  California-licensed  geotechnical  engineer 
(Geo technical  Professionals,  Inc.  [GPI],  October  1 8, 200 1 )  that  is  on  file  with  the  Planning  Department  and  available 
for  public  review  as  part  of  the  project  file.  The  recommendations  contained  in  the  report  include  but  are  not  limited 
to: 

The  site  soil  profile  encountered  9  to  22  feet  of  uncompacted  and  undocumented  fills.  The  Home  Depot 
building  and  parking  garage  should  be  supported  on  precast,  prestressed,  concrete  piles  which  derive  their 
support  from  friction  and  end-bearing  in  the  dense  and  stiff  soils  underlying  the  site. 

The  seven  feet  of  fill  required  to  raise  the  grades  along  the  eastern  portion  of  the  site  would  experience 
about  14  inches  of  settlement  over  thirty  years.  Access  to  the  structure  on  the  east  side  would  require  a 
transition  or  hinged  slab  to  allow  for  the  anticipated  long  term  settlement. 

The  long  term  settlement  caused  by  additional  fill  placement  should  be  considered  when  designing  and 
installing  below  slab  utilities  and  utilities  transitioning  from  outside  to  inside  the  building. 

In  areas  where  the  grades  are  not  being  raised  and  the  bay  mud  deposits  are  thin,  access  to  and  from  the 
site  along  the  west  side  would  not  require  a  transition  structure  (i.e.  hinged  slab). 

Since  the  structures  should  be  pile  supported,  further  mitigation  of  the  buildings  to  resist  liquefaction  of 
the  materials  would  not  be  needed. 

The  depth  to  a  suitable  bearing  layer  for  the  piles  should  vary  from  30  to  115  feet  below  grade. 

Due  to  the  densification  of  the  fills  under  the  site,  there  is  a  potential  for  subsidence  of  paved  areas  and 
utilities  not  supported  on  pile  foundations.  To  help  mitigate  some  of  the  settlements,  the  near  surface  soilds 
should  be  proofrolled  with  a  heavy  vibratory  roller. 

Since  groundwater  was  encountered  at  a  depth  of  9  to  14  feet,  deep  excavations,  such  as  for  utility 
installation,  will  encounter  soft  and  wet  soils  and  may  require  dewatering. 

Positive  surface  gradients  should  be  provided  adjacent  to  all  structures  so  as  to  direct  surface  water  runoff 
and  roof  drainage  away  from  foundations  and  slabs  toward  suitable  discharge  facilities.  Planters  adjacent 


2001.0.062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-18 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


to  the  structures  should  be  avoided.  If  required,  such  planters  should  be  lined  and  provided  with  subsurface 
drainage  to  collect  excess  irrigation  water.  Long  term  ponding  of  surface  water  should  not  be  allowed  on 
pavements  or  adjacent  to  buildings. 

•  Since  it  was  not  possible  to  perform  geotechnical  explorations  at  several  locations  on  the  site  due  to  the 
existing  buildings,  completion  of  the  planned  explorations  should  be  done  when  the  demolition  of  the 
existing  buildings  is  complete. 

The  geotechnical  report  found  the  site  suitable  for  development  providing  that  the  recommendations  included  in  the 
report  were  incorporated  into  the  design  and  construction  of  the  proposed  development.  The  sponsor  has  agreed  to 
follow  the  recommendations  of  the  report  in  constructing  the  project. 

Any  groundwater  encountered  during  construction  of  the  proposed  project  would  be  subject  to  requirements  of  the 
City's  Industrial  Waste  Ordinance  (Ordinance  Number  199-77),  requiring  that  groundwater  meet  specified  water 
quality  standards  before  it  may  be  discharged  into  the  sewer  system.  The  Bureau  of  Systems  Planning,  Environment 
and  Compliance  of  the  S.F.  Public  Utilities  Commission  must  be  notified  of  projects  necessitating  dewatering,  and 
may  require  water  analysis  before  discharge.  Should  dewatering  be  necessary,  the  final  soils  report  would  address 
the  potential  settlement  and  subsidence  impacts  of  this  dewatering.  Based  upon  this  discussion,  the  report  would 
contain  a  determination  as  to  whether  or  not  a  lateral  movement  and  settlement  survey  should  be  done  to  monitor 
any  movement  or  settlement  of  surrounding  buildings  and  adjacent  streets.  If  a  monitoring  survey  is  recommended, 
the  Department  of  Public  Works  would  require  that  a  Special  Inspector  (as  defined  in  Article  3  of  the  Building  Code) 
be  retained  by  the  project  sponsor  to  perform  this  monitoring. 

Groundwater  observation  wells  would  be  installed  to  monitor  potential  settlement  and  subsidence.  If,  in  the 
judgment  of  the  Special  Inspector,  unacceptable  movement  were  to  occur  during  dewatering,  groundwater  recharge 
would  be  used  to  halt  this  settlement.  Costs  for  the  survey  and  any  necessary  repairs  to  service  lines  under  the  street 
would  be  borne  by  the  project  sponsor. 

The  final  building  plans  would  be  reviewed  by  the  Department  of  Building  Inspection  (DBI).  In  reviewing  building 
plans,  the  DBI  refers  to  a  variety  of  information  sources  to  determine  existing  hazards  and  assess  requirements  for 
mitigation.  Sources  reviewed  include  maps  of  Special  Geologic  Study  Areas  and  known  landslide  areas  in  San 
Francisco  as  well  as  the  building  inspectors'  working  knowledge  of  areas  of  special  geologic  concern.  The  above 
referenced  geotechnical  investigation  would  be  available  for  use  by  the  DBI  during  its  review  of  building  permits 
for  the  site.  Also,  DBI  could  require  that  additional  site-specific  soils  report(s)  be  prepared  in  conjunction  with 
permit  applications,  as  needed.  Therefore,  potential  damage  to  structures  from  geologic  hazards  on  a  project  site 
would  be  mitigated  through  the  DBI  review  of  the  building  permit  application  pursuant  to  DBI  implementation  of 
the  Building  Code.  The  EIR  will  not  address  geology  and  soils. 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-19 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


Yes        No  Discussed 

10.  Water  -  Could  the  project: 

a.  Substantially  degrade  water  quality,  or  contaminate  a  public 

water  supply?  □         ■  ■ 

b.  Substantially  degrade  or  deplete  groundwater  resources,  or 

interfere  substantially  with  groundwater  recharge?  □         ■  ■ 

c.  Cause  substantial  flooding,  erosion  or  siltation?  □         ■  □ 


Records  indicate  that  a  550-gallon-gasoline  underground  storage  tank  (UST)  was  removed  in  May  of  1990  under 
the  requirement  of  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Health,  Local  Oversight  Program  (DPH-LOP)  and 
Department  of  Fire  Prevention.  Two-  4,000-gallon-USTs  were  also  removed  from  the  site  in  February  of  1 999  under 
the  requirements  of  DPH  and  the  BAAQMD. 

Soil  results  from  the  removal  of  the  550-gallon-gasoline-UST  found  total  petroleum  hydrocarbons  as  gasoline  (TPH- 
G),  benzene,  toluene,  ethylbenzene  and  xylenes  (BTEX).  Soil  samples  collected  from  the  bottom  of  the  excavation 
for  the  two  former  4,000-gallon-USTs  found  TPH-G,  BTEX,  methyl-tert-butyl-ether  (MTBE)  and  total  lead  (Pb). 
Groundwater  samples  were  also  taken  and  reveal  TPH-G,  BTEX,  and  MTBE.  The  Department  of  Public  Health 
Local  Oversight  Program  requested  a  work  plan  addressing  the  groundwater  contamination,  specifically  requesting 
at  least  one  groundwater-monitoring  well  to  be  installed  within  10  feet  of  the  former  excavation  of  the  two  4,000- 
gallon-USTs  and  quarterly  monitoring  of  the  well  for  a  period  of  one  year.  According  to  the  DPH-LOP,  the  first 
three  quarterly  monitoring  sets  of  results  for  the  groundwater  sample  from  the  monitoring  well  were  negative  (there 
were  no  elevated  concentrations  of  contaminates). 


The  proposed  project  would  not  affect  groundwater  resources  and  would  not  interfere  with  groundwater  recharge. 

In  conclusion,  the  proposed  project  would  not  result  in  significant  adverse  impacts  on  surface  water  or  groundwater 
quality.  Therefore,  the  EIR  will  not  discuss  water. 


Yes        No  Discussed 

1 1 .  Energy/Natural  Resources  -  Could  the  project: 

a.  Encourage  activities  which  result  in  the  use  of  large  amounts 

of  fuel,  water,  or  energy,  or  use  these  in  a  wasteful  manner?  □         ■  ■ 

b.  Have  a  substantial  effect  on  the  potential  use,  extraction, 

or  depletion  of  a  natural  resource?  □         ■  □ 


The  Department  of  Building  Inspection  requires  that  new  buildings  in  San  Francisco  conform  to  energy  conservation 
standards  specified  by  Title  24  of  the  California  Code  of  Regulations.  Documentation  showing  compliance  with 
these  standards  is  submitted  with  the  application  for  the  building  permit.  Title  24  is  enforced  by  the  Department  of 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-20 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


Building  Inspection.  No  substantial  environmental  effects  are  expected  from  the  proposed  project,  and  energy 
consumption  will  not  be  discussed  in  the  EIR. 

Yes        No  Discussed 

12.  Hazards  -  Could  the  project: 

a.  Create  a  potential  public  health  hazard  or  involve  the  use, 
production  or  disposal  of  materials  which  pose  a  hazard  to 

people  or  animal  or  plant  populations  in  the  area  affected?  □         ■  ■ 

b.  Interfere  with  emergency  response  plans  or  emergency 

evacuation  plans?  □         ■  □ 

c.  Create  a  potentially  substantial  fire  hazard?  □         ■  □ 


A  Phase  I  Environmental  Site  Assessment  (ESA)  of  the  project  site  was  conducted  by  an  independent  consultant 
(Stechmann  Geoscience,  Inc.  (SGI),  March  20,  2001).  The  Phase  I  ESA  was  conducted  to  identify  possible 
environmental  concerns  related  to  on-site  or  nearby  chemical  use,  storage,  handling,  spillage,  and/or  on-site  disposal, 
with  particular  focus  on  potential  degradation  of  soil  and  groundwater  quality.  A  Phase  II  investigation  was  also 
conducted  by  SGI  in  April  200 1  to  assess  petroleum  hydrocarbons  and  heavy  metals  in  the  soil.  A  copy  of  the  Phase 
I  and  Phase  II  ESA  is  available  for  review  as  part  of  the  project  file  at  the  Planning  Department,  1660  Mission  Street. 

The  potential  for  effects  of  the  hazardous  materials  on  the  site  will  be  discussed  in  the  EIR  for  informational 
purposes. 

The  Maher  Ordinance  is  a  San  Francisco  Regulation  which  requires  certain  environmental  actions  for  various  sites 
but  those  primarily  "Bayward  of  the  high-tide  line".  The  site  is  not  within  the  limits  of  the  ordinance,  however,  the 
project  site  is  underlain  by  bay.mud  deposits  to  depths  of  20  to  92  feet  and  may  have  been  part  of  the  original  bay. 


Asbestos 

The  existing  buildings  on  the  project  site  were  constructed  in  the  1950s  and  1960s,  a  period  of  time  when  asbestos 
was  used  in  buildings.  Asbestos  materials  may  be  found  within  the  existing  structures  on  site  which  are  proposed 
to  be  demolished  as  part  of  the  project.  Section  19827.5  of  the  California  Health  and  Safety  Code,  adopted  January 
1,  1991,  requires  that  local  agencies  not  issue  demolition  or  alteration  permits  until  an  applicant  has  demonstrated 
compliance  with  notification  requirements  under  applicable  Federal  regulations  regarding  hazardous  air  pollutants, 
including  asbestos.  The  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  (BAAQMD)  is  vested  by  the  California 
legislature  with  authority  to  regulate  airborne  pollutants,  including  asbestos,  through  both  inspection  and  law 
enforcement,  and  is  to  be  notified  ten  days  in  advance  of  any  proposed  demolition  or  abatement  work. 


Notification  includes  the  names  and  addresses  of  operations  and  persons  responsible;  description  and  location  of  the 
structure  to  be  demolished/altered  including  size,  age  and  prior  use,  and  the  approximate  amount  of  friable  asbestos; 
scheduled  starting  and  completion  dates  of  demolition  or  abatement;  nature  of  planned  work  and  methods  to  be 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-21 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 

employed;  procedures  to  be  employed  to  meet  BAAQMD  requirements;  and  the  name  and  location  of  the  waste 
disposal  site  to  be  used.  The  District  randomly  inspects  asbestos  removal  operations.  In  addition,  the  District  will 
inspect  any  removal  operation  concerning  which  a  complaint  has  been  received. 

The  local  office  of  the  State  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration  (OSHA)  must  be  notified  of  asbestos 
abatement  to  be  carried  out.  Asbestos  abatement  contractors  must  follow  state  regulations  contained  in  8CCR1529 
and  8CCR341 .6  through  341. 14  where  there  is  asbestos-related  work  involving  100  square  feet  or  more  of  asbestos 
containing  material.  Asbestos  removal  contractors  must  be  certified  as  such  by  the  Contractors  Licensing  Board  of 
the  State  of  California.  The  owner  of  the  property  where  abatement  is  to  occur  must  have  a  Hazardous  Waste 
Generator  Number  assigned  by  and  registered  with  the  Office  of  the  California  Department  of  Health  Services  in 
Sacramento.  The  contractor  and  hauler  of  the  material  is  required  to  file  a  Hazardous  Waste  Manifest  which  details 
the  hauling  of  the  material  from  the  site  and  the  disposal  of  it.  Pursuant  to  California  law,  the  Department  of 
Building  Inspection  (DBI)  would  not  issue  the  required  permit  until  the  applicant  has  complied  with  the  notice 
requirements  described  above. 

These  regulations  and  procedures,  already  established  as  a  part  of  the  permit  review  process,  would  insure  that  any 
potential  impacts  due  to  asbestos  would  be  reduced  to  a  level  of  insignificance. 

Lead-based  paint 

Lead  paint  may  be  found  in  the  existing  buildings,  constructed  in  the  1950s  and  1960s,  and  proposed  for  demolition 
as  part  of  the  project.  Demolition  must  comply  with  Chapter  36  of  the  San  Francisco  Building  Code,  Work  Practices 
for  Exterior  Lead-Based  Paint.  Where  there  is  any  work  that  may  disturb  or  remove  lead  paint  on  the  exterior  of  any 
building  built  prior  to  December  31,  1978,  Chapter  36  requires  specific  notification  and  work  standards,  and 
identifies  prohibited  work  methods  and  penalties. 

Chapter  36  applies  to  buildings  or  steel  structures  on  which  original  construction  was  completed  prior  to  1 979  (which 
are  assumed  to  have  lead-based  paint  on  their  surfaces),  where  more  than  ten  total  square  feet  of  lead-based  paint 
would  be  disturbed  or  removed.  The  ordinance  contains  performance  standards,  including  establishment  of 
containment  barriers,  at  least  as  effective  at  protecting  human  health  and  the  environment  as  those  in  the  HUD 
Guidelines  (the  most  recent  Guidelines  for  Evaluation  and  Control  of  Lead-Based  Paint  Hazards)  and  identifies 
prohibited  practices  that  may  not  be  used  in  disturbance  or  removal  of  lead-based  paint.  Any  person  performing 
work  subject  to  the  ordinance  shall  make  all  reasonable  efforts  to  prevent  migration  of  lead  paint  contaminants 
beyond  containment  barriers  during  the  course  of  the  work,  and  any  person  performing  regulated  work  shall  make 
all  reasonable  efforts  to  remove  all  visible  lead  paint  contaminants  from  all  regulated  areas  of  the  property  prior  to 
completion  of  the  work. 

The  ordinance  also  includes  notification  requirements,  contents  of  notice,  and  requirements  for  signs.  Notification 
includes  notifying  bidders  for  the  work  of  any  paint-inspection  reports  verifying  the  presence  or  absence  of  lead- 
based  paint  in  the  regulated  area  of  the  proposed  project.  Prior  to  commencement  of  work,  the  responsible  party 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-22 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


must  provide  written  notice  to  the  Director  of  the  Department  of  Building  Inspection,  of  the  location  of  the  project; 
the  nature  and  approximate  square  footage  of  the  painted  surface  being  disturbed  and/or  removed;  anticipated  job 
start  and  completion  dates  for  the  work;  whether  the  responsible  party  has  reason  to  know  or  presume  that  lead-based 
paint  is  present;  whether  the  building  is  residential  or  nonresidential,  owner-occupied  or  rental  property,  approximate 
number  of  dwelling  units,  if  any;  the  dates  by  which  the  responsible  party  has  or  will  fulfill  any  tenant  or  adjacent 
properly  notification  requirements;  and  the  name,  address,  telephone  number,  and  pager  number  of  the  party  who 
will  perform  the  work.  (Further  notice  requirements  include  Sign  When  Containment  is  Required,  Notice  by 
Landlord,  Required  Notice  to  Tenants,  Availability  of  Pamphlet  related  to  protection  from  lead  in  the  home,  Notice 
by  Contractor,  Early  Commencement  of  Work  [by  Owner,  Requested  by  Tenant],  and  Notice  of  Lead  Contaminated 
Dust  or  Soil,  if  applicable.)  The  ordinance  contains  provisions  regarding  inspection  and  sampling  for  compliance 
by  DBI,  and  enforcement,  and  describes  penalties  for  non-compliance  with  the  requirements  of  the  ordinance. 

These  regulations  and  procedures  by  the  San  Francisco  Building  Code  would  ensure  that  potential  impacts  of 
demolition,  due  to  lead-based  paint,  would  be  reduced  to  a  level  of  insignificance. 

The  presence  of  asbestos  and  lead  paint  on  the  project  site  would  not  be  considered  potentially  significant  impacts. 
The  EiR  will  address  the  potential  sources  of  hazardous  substances  as  a  result  of  activities  on  and  off  the  site  that 
may  have  involved  handling,  storage,  or  disposal  of  hazardous  substances  that  could  affect  the  quality  of  soils  or 
groundwater.  A  Site  Mitigation  Plan  and  a  Soil  Management  Plan  prepared  to  safely  remediate  the  site  will  also  be 
discussed  in  the  EIR. 

Fire  Safety 

San  Francisco  ensures  fire  safety  primarily  through  provisions  of  the  Building  Code  and  the  Fire  Code.  Existing 
buildings  are  required  to  meet  standards  contained  in  these  codes.  The  proposed  project  would  conform  to  these 
standards,  which  (depending  on  building  type)  may  also  include  development  of  an  emergency  procedure  manual 
and  an  exit  drill  plan.  In  this  way,  potential  fire  hazards  (including  those  associated  with  hillside  development, 
hydrant  water  pressure,  and  emergency  access)  would  be  mitigated  during  the  permit  review  process.  The 
environmental  effects  of  the  proposed  project  would  not  be  expected  to  interfere  with  emergency  response  times  in 
the  area. 

Yes        No  Discussed 

13.  Cultural  -  Could  the  project: 

a.  Disrupt  or  adversely  affect  a  prehistoric  or  historic 
archaeological  site  or  a  property  of  historic  or  cultural 
significance  to  a  community,  ethnic  or  social  group;  or  a 
paleonto logical  site  except  as  a  part  of  a  scientific  study? 

b.  Conflict  with  established  recreational,  educational, 
religious  or  scientific  uses  of  the  area? 


□  ■  □ 

□  ■  □ 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-23 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


Yes       No  Discussed 

Conflict  with  the  preservation  of  buildings  subject  to  the 
provisions  of  Article  10  or  (proposed)  Article  1 1  of  the  City 

Planning  Code?  □         ■  ■ 


The  existing  structures  on  the  site  are  not  of  historic  architectural  merit  because  they  are  standard  industrial  buildings 
built  in  the  last  fifty  years  and  were  not  designed  by  significant  architects.  Therefore,  there  would  be  no  effect  on 
historic  architectural  resources.  Development  of  the  site  would  require  excavations  of  approximately  8,500  cubic 
yards  of  soil  for  footings  and  foundation.  The  foundation  system  would  include  pile  driving. 

Factors  considered  in  order  to  determine  the  potential  for  encountering  archaeological  resources  include  location, 
depth  and  amount  of  excavation  proposed,  as  well  as  any  existing  information  about  known  resources  in  the  area. 
The  project  site  is  in  an  area  where  no  significant  archaeological  resources  have  been  identified,  and  where  some 
previous  site-disturbance  may  have  taken  place  (for  street  grading  and  for  construction  of  former  buildings).  Since 
the  project  would  not  involve  extensive  excavation,  the  project  would  be  unlikely  to  disturb  subsurface  cultural 
resources,  historic,  or  prehistoric,  should  such  resources  exist  on  or  near  the  project  site.  Nonetheless,  the  excavation 
and  foundation  design  proposed  as  part  of  the  project  may  impact  unknown  subsurface  features/resources.  For  this 
reason,  the  project  sponsor  has  agreed  to  implement  Mitigation  Measure  1,  to  avoid  adverse  effects  on  historic 
resources.  The  proposed  project  would  not  have  any  significant  impact  on  architectural  or  historical  resources  and 
will  not  be  discussed  further  in  the  EIR. 

Yes        No  Discussed 

C.  OTHER 

Require  approval  and/or  permits  from  City  Departments  other  than 
the  Planning  Department  or  Department  of  Building  Inspection  or 

from  Regional,  State  or  Federal  Agencies?  □         ■  ■ 

The  proposed  project  is  consistent  with  all  applicable  zoning  controls;  however,  the  project  may  be  subject  to  staff- 
initiated  discretionary  review  by  the  Planning  Commission.  The  improvements  to  the  traffic  signals,  pedestrian 
crosswalks,  the  median,  and  southbound  left-turn  traffic  at  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  Cortland  Avenue  are  subject 
to  review  by  the  Interdepartmental  Staff  Committee  on  Traffic  and  Transportation. 

In  response  to  a  September  21,  2001  Preliminary  Mitigated  Negative  Declaration  for  the  project,  concerns  were 
expressed  regarding  the  proposed  use,  use  size,  air  quality  and  traffic  impacts.  These  issues  will  be  addressed  in  the 
EIR. 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-24 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 


D.   MITIGATION  MEASURES  PROPOSED  AS  PART  OF  THE  PROJECT 

Yes  No      N/A  Discussed 

1.  Could  the  project  have  significant  effect  if  mitigation 

measures  are  not  included  in  the  project?  ■  □        □  ■ 

2.  Are  all  mitigation  measures  necessary  to  eliminate 

significant  effects  included  in  the  project?  ■  □        □  ■ 

The  following  mitigation  measures  are  related  to  topics  determined  to  require  no  further  analysis  in  the  EIR.  The 
EIR  will  contain  a  Mitigation  Measures  chapter  which  describes  these  measures  and  includes  other  measures  which 
would  or  could  be  adopted  to  reduce  potential  adverse  effects  of  the  project  will  be  identified  in  the  EIR. 

The  project  sponsor  has  agreed  to  implement  the  following  mitigation  measures: 

Mitigation  Measure  1 

Cultural  Resources:  Should  evidence  of  archaeological  resources  of  potential  significance  be  found  during  ground 
disturbance,  the  project  sponsor  would  immediately  notify  the  Environmental  Review  Officer  (ERO)  and  would 
suspend  any  excavation  which  the  ERO  determined  could  damage  such  archaeological  resources.  Excavation  or 
construction  activities  which  might  damage  discovered  cultural  resources  would  be  suspended  for  a  total  maximum 
of  four  weeks  over  the  course  of  construction. 

After  notifying  the  ERO,  the  project  sponsor  would  select  an  archaeologist  to  assist  the  Office  of  Environmental 
Review  in  determining  the  significance  of  the  find.  The  archaeologist  would  prepare  a  draft  report  containing  an 
assessment  of  the  potential  significance  of  the  find  and  recommendations  for  what  measures  should  be  implemented 
to  minimize  potential  effects  on  archaeological  resources.  Based  on  this  report,  the  ERO  would  recommend  specific 
additional  mitigation  measures  to  be  implemented  by  the  project  sponsor. 

Mitigation  measures  might  include  a  site  security  program,  additional  on-site  investigations  by  the  archaeologist, 
and/or  documentation,  preservation,  and  recovery  of  cultural  materials.  Finally,  the  archaeologist  would  prepare  a 
draft  report  documenting  the  cultural  resources  that  were  discovered,  an  evaluation  as  to  their  significance,  and  a 
description  as  to  how  any  archaeological  testing,  exploration  and/or  recovery  program  was  conducted. 

Copies  of  all  draft  reports  prepared  according  to  this  mitigation  measure  would  be  sent  first  and  directly  to  the  ERO 
for  review.  Following  approval  by  the  ERO,  copies  of  the  final  report(s)  would  be  sent  by  the  archaeologist  directly 
to  the  President  of  the  Landmarks  Preservation  Advisory  Board  and  the  California  Archaeological  Site  Survey 
Northwest  Information  Center.  Three  copies  of  the  final  archaeology  report(s)  shall  be  submitted  to  the  Office  of 
Environmental  Review,  accompanied  by  copies  of  the  transmittals  documenting  its  distribution  to  the  President  of 
the  Landmarks  Preservation  Advisory  Board  and  the  California  Archaeological  Site  Survey  Northwest  Information 
Center. 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-25 


Appendix  A:  Initial  Study 

E.  ALTERNATIVES 

Alternatives  to  the  proposed  project  will  be  defined  further  and  described  in  the  EER.  At  a  minimum,  the  alternatives 
analyzed  in  the  EIR  will  include  the  following: 

1.  A  No  Project  Alternative  in  which  the  project  site  would  remain  in  its  existing  condition,  with  two  vacant 
commercial  buildings. 

2.  A  Variant  No  Project  Alternative  in  which  the  two  existing  buildings  on  site  would  be  reused  as  permitted 
by  zoning  with  no  discretionary  approvals. 

3.  A  Smaller  Alternative,  in  which  the  proposed  uses  would  be  at  a  lower  level  of  intensity. 


F.    MANDATORY  FINDINGS  OF  SIGNIFICANCE 

Yes      No  Discussed 

1.  Does  the  project  have  the  potential  to  degrade  the  quality  of  the 
environment,  substantially  reduce  the  habitat  of  a  fish  or  wildlife 
species,  cause  a  fish  or  wildlife  population  to  drop  below  self- 
sustaining  levels,  threaten  to  eliminate  a  plant  or  animal  community, 
reduce  the  number  or  restrict  the  range  of  a  rare  or  endangered 
plant  or  animal,  or  eliminate  important  examples  of  the  major 

periods  of  California  history  or  pre-history?  □        ■  □ 

2.  Does  the  project  have  the  potential  to  achieve  short-term,  to  the 

disadvantage  of  long-term,  environmental  goals?  □        ■  □ 

3.  Does  the  project  have  possible  environmental  effects  which  are 
individually  limited,  but  cumulatively  considerable?  (Analyze  in 

the  light  of  past  projects,  other  current  projects,  and  probable  _ 

future  projects.)  ■        □  □ 

4.  Would  the  project  cause  substantial  adverse  effects  on  human 

beings,  either  directly  or  indirectly?  □        ■  □ 


G.   ON  THE  BASIS  OF  THIS  INITIAL  STUDY 

□  I  find  the  proposed  project  COULD  NOT  have  a  significant  effect  on  the  environment,  and  a  NEGATrVE 
DECLARATION  will  be  prepared  by  the  Department  of  City  Planning. 

□  I  find  that  although  the  proposed  project  could  have  a  significant  effect  on  the  environment,  there  WILL  NOT  be 
a  significant  effect  in  this  case  because  the  mitigation  measures  in  the  discussion  have  been  included  as  part  of 
the  proposed  project.  A  NEGATIVE  DECLARATION  will  be  prepared. 

■  I  find  that  the  proposed  project  MAY  have  a  significant  effect  on  the  environment,  and  an  ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT  REPORT  is  required. 


Date: 


x^PAUL  E.M^LTZER 
Environmentaj/Review  Officer 
for 

Gerald  G.  Green 
Director  of  Planning 


2001.0062E-  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


A-26 


Appendix  B 


Intersection  Level  of  Service  Designations 


I 
I 

I 

i 
i 


Appendix  B:  Level  of  Service 


APPENDIXB 
INTERSECTION  LEVEL  OF  SERVICE  DESIGNATIONS 

Existing  and  future  traffic  conditions  at  signalized  intersections  within  the  primary  study  area  have  been 
evaluated  using  the  TRAF-NETSIM  Traffic  Simulation  Model.  Conditions  at  signalized  intersections 
in  the  secondary  study  area  have  been  evaluated  using  the  1985  Highway  Capacity  Manual 
(Transportation  Research  Board,  1985)  operations  methodology.  Both  methodologies  use  the  concept 
of  Level  of  Service  (LOS),  which,  for  signalized  intersections,  is  defined  in  terms  of  delay,  or  waiting 
time  at  a  signal.  Delay  is  a  measure  of  driver  discomfort,  frustration,  fuel  consumption,  and  lost  travel 
time.  Intersection  LOS,  determined  according  to  the  vehicle  delay  in  seconds  per  vehicle,  range  from 
LOS  A  (very  low  delay)  to  LOS  F  (forced  flow).  Table  B-1  provides  more  detailed  descriptions  of 
the  six  LOS,  A  through  F,  for  signalized  intersections  using  the  1985  Highway  Capacity  Manual 
method.  The  TRAF-NETSIM  simulation  calculates  LOS  in  much  the  same  way,  with  similar  results, 
but  refines  the  analysis  based  on  signal  progression  along  streets,  such  as  the  Embarcadero,  and  based 
on  spill-back,  when  queues  from  one  intersection  extend  back  to  a  previous  intersection. 

In  the  past,  for  planning  applications,  the  City  of  San  Francisco  has  used  a  slightly  different  methodology 
than  the  TRAF-NETSIM  or  1985  Highway  Capacity  Manual  to  analyze  operations  at  signalized 
intersections.  That  method,  known  as  the  Critical  Lane  Analysis  (Transportation  Research  Circular 
Number  212,  Transportation  Research  Board,  1980),  determines  the  ratio  of  critical  opposing  traffic 
volumes  to  theoretical  intersection  capacity,  yielding  the  volume-to-capacity  (v/c)  ratio.  Intersection 
LOS,  determined  according  to  the  value  of  the  v/c  ratio,  range  from  LOS  A  (free  flowing  condition)  to 
LOS  F  (severely  congested  conditions).  Table  B-2  provides  more  detailed  descriptions  of  the  six  LOS, 
A  through  F,  for  signalized  intersections  using  the  Critical  Lane  Analysis  methodology. 

Although  the  two  methodologies  for  calculating  the  LOS  differ,  there  is  usually  a  good  correlation 
between  the  LOS  calculated  using  either  method  of  analysis.  It  is  only  when  high  levels  of  congestion 
occur  that  differences  between  the  two  methodologies  may  be  more  apparent.  As  an  example,  using  the 
1985  Highway  Capacity  Manual  methodology,  an  intersection  may  be  operating  at  a  LOS  F,  with  poor 
traffic  progression,  many  signal  cycle  failures  and  vehicle  delays  above  60  seconds  per  vehicle;  however, 
the  v/c  ratio  could  be  below  one,  which  would  mean  a  LOS  E  using  the  Critical  Lane  Analysis 
methodology.  Conversely,  using  the  1985  Highway  Capacity  Manual  methodology,  an  intersection  may 
be  operating  at  LOS  D,  with  an  efficient  signal  progression  handling  large  traffic  volumes;  however,  the 
v/c  ratio  could  be  above  0.9,  which  would  mean  a  LOS  E  using  the  Critical  Lane  Analysis  methodology. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


B-1 


Appendix  B:  Level  of  Service 


TABLE  B-l 

SIGNALIZED  INTERSECTION  LEVEL  OF  SERVICE  DEFINITIONS  BASED  ON  DELAY 


LEVEL 
OF 
SERVICE 


B 


D 


E 


TYPICAL 
DELAY 
(SEC/VEH) 

<  5.0 

5.1  -  15.0 

15.1  -25.0 

25.1  -40.0 


40.1  -60.0 


>60.0 


TYPICAL  TRAFFIC  CONDITION 


Insignificant  Delays:  No  approach  phase  is  fully  utilized  and  no 
vehicle  waits  longer  than  one  red  indication. 

Minimal  Delays:  an  occasional  approach  phase  is  fully  utilized. 
Drivers  begin  to  feel  restricted. 

Acceptable  Delays:  Major  approach  phase  may  become  fully 
utilized.  Most  drivers  feel  somewhat  restricted. 

Tolerable  Delays:  Drivers  may  wait  through  more  than  one  red 
indication.  Queues  may  develop  but  dissipate  rapidly,  without 
excessive  delays. 

Significant  Delays:  Conditions  are  generally  the  limit  of 
acceptable  delays.  Vehicles  may  wait  through  several  signal  cycles 
and  long  queues  of  vehicles  from  upstream. 

Excessive  Delays:  Represents  unacceptable  conditions  with 
extremely  long  delays.  Queues  may  block  upstream  intersections. 


Sources:  Highway  Capacity  Manual,  Highway  Research  Board,  Special  Report  No.  209, 
Washington,  D.C.,  1985;  Interim  Materials  on  Highway  Capacity,  Circular  212,  Transportation 
Research  Board,  1980;  Korve  Engineering.  


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Avenue 


B-2 


Appendix  B:  Level  of  Service 


TABLE  B-2 

ARTERIAL  LEVEL  OF  SERVICE  DEFINITIONS  BASED  ON  TRAVEL  SPEED 


ARTERIAL  CLASS 

I 

II 

III 

RANGE  OF  FREE 
rlAJW  orE.cJJi>  ^mpnj 

4 J  lO  JJ 

JJ  10  jU 

JJ  10  ZJ 

1  i  rlCAJL  rKiiE,  rLUW 
SPEED  (mph) 

JJ 

T7 

LEVEL  OF  SERVICE 

AVERAGE  TRAVEL  SPEED  (mph) 

A 

>35 

>30 

>25 

B 

>28 

>24 

>  19 

C 

>22 

>  18 

>  13 

D 

>  17 

>  14 

>9 

E 

>  13 

>  10 

>7 

F 

<  13 

<  10 

<  7 

Level  of  Service  A: 


Primarily  free-flow  operations  at  average  travel  speeds,  usually  about  90  percent  of  the 
free  flow  speed  for  the  arterial  class.  Vehicles  are  completely  unimpeded  in  their  ability 
to  maneuver  within  the  traffic  stream.  Stopped  delay  at  signalized  intersections  is 
minimal. 


Level  of  Service  B  : 


Level  of  Service  C: 


Level  of  Service  D: 


Level  of  Service  E: 


Level  of  Service  F: 


Reasonably  unimpeded  operations  at  average  travel  speeds,  usually  about  70  percent  of 
the  free  flow  speed  for  the  arterial  class.  The  ability  to  maneuver  within  the  traffic 
stream  is  only  slightly  restricted  and  stopped  delays  are  not  bothersome.  Drivers  are  not 
generally  subjected  to  appreciable  tension. 

Stable  operations.  However,  ability  to  maneuver  and  change  lanes  in  mid-block 
locations  may  be  more  restricted  than  in  LOS  B,  and  longer  queues  and/or  adverse 
signal  coordination  may  contribute  to  lower  average  travel  speeds  of  about  50  percent 
of  the  average  free  flow  speed  for  the  arterial  class.  Motorists  will  experience  an 
appreciable  tension  while  driving. 

Borders  on  a  range  on  which  small  increases  in  flow  may  cause  substantial  increases  in 
approach  delay  and,  hence,  decreases  in  arterial  speed.  This  may  be  due  to  adverse 
signal  progression,  inappropriate  signal  timing,  high  volumes,  or  some  combination  of 
these.  Average  travel  speeds  are  about  40  percent  of  free  flow  speed. 

Significant  approach  delays  and  average  travel  speeds  of  one-third  the  free  flow  speed 
or  lower.  Such  operations  are  caused  by  some  combination  or  adverse  progression,  high 
signal  density,  extensive  queuing  at  critical  intersections,  and  inappropriate  signal 
timing. 

Extremely  low  speeds  below  one-third  to  one-quarter  of  the  free  flow  speed. 
Intersection  congestion  is  likely  at  critical  signalized  locations,  with  high  approach 
delays  resulting.  Adverse  progression  is  frequently  a  contributor  to  this  condition. 


Source:  Highway  Capacity  Manual,  Special  Report  209,  Transportation  Research  Board,  1980. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Avenue  B-3 


Appendix  B:  Level  of  Service 


To  estimate  the  number  of  trips  that  would  be  generated  by  the  proposed  project  during  the  weekday  PM 
peak  hour  and  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  driveway  counts  were  performed  at  similar  Home  Depot 
stores  in  California  (see  Table  B-3).  From  this  data,  vehicle-trip  generation  rates  were  developed  based 
on  the  size  of  the  stores  (including  the  Garden  Center)  and  the  peak  hour  in/out  volumes  (which  include 
both  customer  and  employee  trips).  During  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  the  average  trip  generation  rate 
for  these  study  locations  was  5.54  vehicle-trips  per  1,000  square,  with  approximately  48  percent  of  the 
vehicle-trips  inbound  to  the  site  and  52  percent  outbound  from  the  site  (see  Table  B-4).  During  the 
Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  the  average  trip  generation  rate  was  8.88  vehicle-trips  per  1 ,000  square  feet, 
with  approximately  52  percent  inbound  to  the  site  and  48  percent  outbound  from  the  site. 

Weekday  Peak  Hour  of  Activity  Trip  Generation:  Transportation  impact  analyses  are  typically  performed 
for  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  (generally  5:00  to  6:00  p.m.)  and  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour 
(generally  1 2:00  to  1 :00  p.m.),  which  represents  the  worst  weekday  and  weekend  conditions  of  the  local 
transportation  network.  However,  the  peak  hour  of  activity  of  the  proposed  project  land  use  typically 
occurs  during  the  middle  of  the  day  during  the  week.  During  this  period,  there  would  be  the  maximum 
number  of  vehicles  entering  and  exiting  at  the  project  driveways  on  a  weekday.  For  this  time  period, 
although  the  proposed  proj  ect  would  generate  more  vehicle-trips  than  during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour, 
the  total  intersection  volumes  would  be  lower,  resulting  in  equal  to  or  better  intersection  operating 
condition;  as  such,  only  the  queuing  analysis  was  conducted  for  this  time  period.  It  was  estimated  that 
the  trip  generation  during  the  peak  hour  of  activity  would  be  approximately  25  percent  greater  than 
during  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour,  which  would  result  in  a  trip  generation  rate  of  about  6.93  vehicle- 
trips  per  1,000  square  feet.1  In  addition,  it  was  estimated  that  52  percent  of  the  vehicle-trips  would  be 
inbound  to  the  site  and  48  percent  would  be  outbound  from  the  site  during  this  period. 

As  a  means  to  determine  the  distribution  of  the  vehicle-trips  generated  by  the  proposed  project, 
demographic  forecasts  for  the  proposed  Bayshore  Boulevard  location  were  provided  by  the  project 
sponsor.  The  project  sponsor  hired  a  market  research  firm  to  estimate  the  geographic  location  of  its 
potential  customers.  This  distribution  was  determined  at  a  zip  code  level  and  accounted  for  the 
characteristics  of  the  proposed  store  and  its  surrounding  population.  The  characteristics  of  the  store 
included  the  location  of  sister  stores  and  the  location  of  nearby  competitors.  The  characteristics  of  the 
potential  users  was  based  on  various  factors  of  each  nearby  zip  code,  including  the  average  distance  to 
the  store,  number  of  dwelling  units,  percent  of  units  that  are  owner  occupied,  and  the  median  income  of 
residents.  Table  B-5  presents  the  distribution  of  the  visitor  trips  generated  by  the  proposed  project, 
aggregated  into  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department's  standard  geographical  regions.  It  was  assumed 
that  the  geographical  distribution  of  visitor  trips  to  the  proposed  project  would  be  the  similar  for 
employee  trips  and  would  be  constant  for  all  analysis  time  periods. 


1  Institute  of  Transportation  Engineers  (ITE)  Trip  Generation,  6th  Edition.  Land  Use  #862. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


B-4 


Appendix  B:  Level  of  Service 


TABLE  B-3 
TRIP  GENERATION  SUMMARY* 


WEEKDAY  PM  PEAK  HOUR1 

Inbound 

Outbound 

Total 

TripGen 

Store  Location  j 

Size  (gfa) 

Count 

Percent 

Count 

Percent 

Volume 

Rate 

Campbell,  CA 

121,037 

282 

44.9% 

346 

55.1% 

628 

5.19 

Hollywood,  CA 

121,473 

341 

47.7% 

374 

52.3% 

715 

5.89 

San  Jose,  CA 

144,521 

303 

49.3% 

312 

50.7% 

615 

4.26 

Colma,  CA 

113,126 

392 

50.6% 

382 

49.4% 

774 

6.84 

Average 

125,039 

330 

48.2% 

354 

51.8% 

683 

5.54 

Proposed  Project 

153,100 

409 

48.2% 

439 

51.8% 

849 

5.54 

WEEKEND  MIDDAY  PEAK  HOUR' 

Inbound 

Outbound 

Total 

TripGen 

Store  Location  j 

Size  (gfa) 

Count 

Percent 

Count 

j  Percent 

Volume 

Rate 

Colma,  CA  -  weekday 

113,126 

334 

49.7% 

338 

50.3% 

672 

5.94 

Colma,  CA  -  weekend 

113,126 

520 

51.8% 

484 

48.2% 

1,004 

8.88 

Proposed  Project 

153,100 

657 

51.8% 

611 

48.2% 

1,268 

8.28 

Sources:  The  Home  Depot,  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  March  2002  (plan  CA-862t). 


Notes: 

Based  on  in/out  counts  conducted  in  July  1999. 
2  Based  on  in/out  counts  conducted  in  winter  1995/96. 


TABLE  B-4 
TRIP  GENERATION  SUMMARY 


WEEKDAY  PEAK  HOUR' 

Store  Location 

Size  (gfa) 

Inb 
Count 

ound 
Percent 

Out 
Count 

bound 
Percent 

Total 
Volume 

TripGen 
Rate 

Proposed  Project 

153,100 

551 

52.0% 

509 

48.0% 

1,060 

6.93 

Sources:  The  Home  Depot,  Wilbur  Smith  Associates,  March  2002  (plan  CA-862t). 


Note: 

Based  on  25%  increase  (from  ITE). 


TABLE  B-5 

TRIP  DISTRIBUTION  ESTIMATES  FROM  MARKET  SHARE  ANALYSIS 


Area 


General  Area  (via  Zip  Codes) 


Market 
Share 


SD  1 

SD  2 
SD  3 
SD  4 
EB 
NB 
SB 

Total  I 


Vi  Civic  Center,  lA  SoMa,  1/4  Mission  Bay 
lA  Civic  Center,  Haight,  1/4  Noe 

Vi  SoMa,  3/4  Mission  Bay,  3/4  Noe,  Twin  Peaks,  Mission,  Bayview,  Balboa,  Vis,  Vi  West  Portal 
14  West  Portal,  Lake  Merced 


South  Bay/Peninsula  (Brisbane,  Colma,  South  SF,  Millbrae,  Other) 


4.1% 
8.4% 
59.0% 
5.0% 
0.0% 
0.0% 
23.6% 
100.0"  „ 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Avenue 


B-5 


Appendix  B:  Level  of  Service 


Based  on  the  demographic  forecasts,  it  was  estimated  that  76  percent  of  the  of  the  visitors  to  the 
proposed  project  would  come  from  San  Francisco,  with  the  remainder  from  the  cities  to  the  south 
(including  Brisbane,  Daly  City,  South  San  Francisco,  San  Mateo,  Millbrae,  San  Bruno  and  Colma). 

This  distribution  was  used  as  the  basis  for  assigning  the  project-generated  trips  to  the  local  streets  and 
regional  freeways  in  the  study  area.  For  each  zip  code,  potential  vehicular  routes  to  and  from  the  project 
site  were  identified  (with  consultation  of  Planning  Department  staff),  and  traffic  was  assigned  based  on 
the  most  convenient  routes.  Based  on  the  location  of  the  major  roadways  and  the  freeways  and  their  on- 
and  off-ramps,  it  was  estimated  that  approximately  24  percent  of  the  vehicles  would  approach  the 
proposed  project  from  southbound  Bayshore  Boulevard,  48  percent  from  northbound  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  13  percent  from  Cortland  Avenue  and  15  percent  from  Loomis  Street.  These  assignments 
were  used  for  all  analysis  time  periods. 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Avenue 


B-6 


Appendix  C 


Diesel  Exhaust  Particulate  Health  Risk  Assessment 


Appendix  C:  Health  Risk  Assessment 


APPENDIX  C 

DIESEL  EXHAUST  PARTICULATE  HEALTH  RISK  ASSESSMENT 
Source  Characteristics 

The  health  risk  assessment  was  based  on  a  daily  heavy-duty  diesel  truck  trip  generation  of  30  trips  per 
day  (15  inbound,  15  outbound).  It  was  assumed  all  truck  trips  would  travel  to  the  site  on  U.S.  101 
northbound  and  return  to  U.S.  101  southbound  after  delivery.  The  modeling  effort  focused  on  Loomis 
Street  east  of  the  project  site  and  near  the  loading  dock  area. 

The  loading  dock  area  was  defined  as  an  area  source.  Loomis  Street  was  modeled  as  a  series  of  four  area 
sources.  The  area  sources  were  assumed  to  have  a  height  of  4. 15  meters.1 

Emissions 

The  EMFAC-2002  emissions  model  was  used  to  predict  emissions  within  each  of  the  five  area  sources. 
Within  the  loading  dock  area  emissions  were  estimated  assuming  1  minute  idling  for  each  inbound  and 
outbound  movement  and  using  the  EMFAC-2002  idle  emission  factor  for  heavy-duty  diesel  engines. 
Within  the  four  area  sources  representing  the  Loomis  Street  travel  lanes  emissions  were  calculated  based 
on  the  EMFAC-2002  emission  factor,  the  length  of  the  area  source  and  the  number  of  trucks.  For  all  area 
sources,  the  emission  was  converted  to  grams  per  second  per  square  meter. 

Modeling 

The  standard  approach  to  determine  the  ground-level  concentration  to  which  the  population  is  exposed 
is  through  the  use  of  air  dispersion  models.  These  models  are  complex  mathematical  routines  that  run 
on  a  digital  computer  to  predict  the  ambient  concentrations  due  to  a  particular  emission.  The  model  used 
in  this  assessment  was  the  U.S.  EPA-approved  guideline  model,  Industrial  Source  Complex  for  Short- 
Term  Impacts  (ISCST3).2  In  this  analysis,  the  ISCST3  model  was  used  with  all  of  the  regulatory  default 
options.  Concentrations  were  calculated  by  the  model  for  a  series  of  receptors  along  the  east  side  of 
Loomis  Street,  7  feet  back  from  the  curb  and  10  meters  apart  from  the  intersection  of  Waterloo  Street 
to  about  150  feet  north  of  the  project  site. 


Health  Risk  Assessment 

In  1998,  after  a  10-year  scientific  assessment  process,  the  California  Air  Resources  Board  identified 
particulate  matter  from  diesel-fueled  engines  as  a  toxic  air  contaminant  (TAC).  TACs  do  not  have 
ambient  air  quality  standards.  TAC  impacts  are  evaluated  by  calculating  the  health  risks  associated  with 
a  given  exposure.  Two  types  of  risk  are  usually  assessed:  chronic  cancer  risk  and  chronic/acute  non- 
cancer  risk.  Diesel  particulate  has  been  identified  as  a  carcinogenic  material  and  has  a  Unit  Risk  Factor, 
but  is  not  considered  to  have  acute  non-cancer  risks. 


'California  Air  Resources  Board,  Risk  Reduction  Plan  to  Reduce  Particulate  Matter  Emissions  from 
Diesel-Fueled  Engines  and  Vehicles,  October  2000. 

2U.  S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  User's  Guide  for  the  Industrial  Source  Complex  (ISC3) 
Dispersion  Models,  Report  EPA-454/b-95-003a,  September  1995. 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


C-1 


Appendix  C:  Health  Risk  Assessment 


The  BAAQMD's  threshold  of  signficance  for  toxic  air  contaminants  is  based  on  the  calculated 
incremental  cancer  risk  calculated  at  the  point  of  maximum  residential  or  maximum  off-site  worker 
exposure,  whichever  is  greater.  The  ISCST-3  model  was  used  to  calculate  an  annual  maximum 
concentration  at  the  expected  point  of  maximum  impact.  Since  this  is  a  commercial  rather  than 
residential  area,  the  Maximally  Exposed  Individual  would  have  worker  rather  than  residential  exposure. 

The  ISCST-3  program  calculated  concentrations  for  discrete  receptors  located  close  to  the  east  side  of 
Loomis  Street.  The  maximum  annual  concentration  at  these  receptors  was  used  in  the  calculation  of 
cancer  risk. 

The  Unit  Risk  Value  for  diesel  exhaust  particulate  recommended  by  the  California  Office  of 
Environmental  Health  Hazard  Assessment  (OEHHA)  is  3.0xl0"04  per  microgram  per  cubic  meter 
(ug/m3).  This  means  that  for  receptors  with  an  annual  average  concentration  of  1  ug/m3  in  the  ambient 
air,  the  probability  of  contracting  cancer  over  a  70-year  life  span  is  300  in  one  million  (300x1 0"06) .  The 
Unit  Risk  Value  assumes  that  a  person  is  exposed  continuously  for  70  years.  Workplace  exposures  are 
generally  assumed  to  occur  for  only  47  years  instead  of  70  years  and  8  hours  per  day  instead  of  24, 
requiring  that  worker  risks  adjusted. 

Table  C- 1  shows  the  results  of  the  risk  screening  calculation.  The  calculated  risk  for  the  maximally 
exposed  worker  is  0.52xl0"6  (0.52  in  one  million). 

Calculated  risk  is  below  the  BAAQMD  significance  threshold  for  the  Maximally  Exposed  Individual 
(MEI)  of  ten  in  one  million.  The  Annual  Average  Concentration  is  also  well  below  the  chronic 
inhalation  Reference  Exposure  Level  (REL)  for  diesel  exhaust  particulate  of  5  ug/m3.  The  REL  is  the 
concentration  at  or  below  which  no  adverse  non-cancer  health  effects  are  anticipated. 


Table  C-l:  Calculated  Excess  Carcinogenic  Risk 


Annual  Average 
Concentration  (ug/m3) 

Unit  Risk  Factor 

Unadjusted  Risk 

Adjusted  Risk3 

0.00774 

3.0X10"4 

2.32x1 0"6 

0.52xl0~6 

3  The  Unit  Risk  Factor  is  based  on  a  70-year  lifetime  of  exposure.  Workplace  exposures  are  generally 
assumed  to  occur  for  only  47  years  instead  of  70  and  8  hours  per  day,  requiring  an  adjustment  of  the  calculated 
risk. 


C-2 


200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Avenue 


Appendix  D 


Distribution  List 


I 
I 

n 

I 
I 
I 
I 


I 
I 
i 


Appendix  D:  Distribution  List 


APPENDIX  D 
DRAFT  EIR  DISTRIBUTION  LIST 


A.     DRAFT  EIR  DISTRIBUTION  LIST 


FEDERAL  AND  STATE  AGENCIES 

State  Office  of  Intergovernmental 

Management  (15  copies) 

State  Clearinghouse 

1400  Tenth  Street  Room  121 

P.O.  Box  3044 

Sacramento  CA  95812-3044 

Northwest  Information  Center 
Attn:  Leigh  Jordan,  Coordinator 
Sonoma  State  University 
1303  Maurice  Avenue 
Rohnert  Park,  CA  94928 

Nandini  N.  Shridhar 

California  Department  of  Transportation 

Office  of  Transportation  Planning  -  B 

P.O.  Box  23660 

Oakland  C A  94623-0660 

Barbara  J.  Cook 

N.  California  Costal  Cleanup  Operations 
Department  of  Toxic  Substances  Control 
700  Heinz  Avenue,  Suite  200 
Berkeley,  CA  94710-2721. 

U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service 
2800  Cottage  Way,  Room  W-2605 
Sacramento  CA  95825-1846 

California  Integrated  Waste  Management 
Board 

Attn:  Reinhard  Hohlwein,  Sue  O'Leary 
Permitting  and  Inspection  Branch,  MS  #15 
1001  "I"  Street-  P.O.  Box  4025 
Sacramento  CA  95812-4025 


REGIONAL  AGENCIES 
Suzan  Ryder 

Association  of  Bay  Area  Governments 

P.O.  Box  2050 

Oakland  CA  94604-2050 


Jean  Pedersen 

Association  of  Bay  Area  Governments 
101  8th  Street 
Oakland  CA  94607 

Craig  Goldblatt 

Metropolitan  Transportation  Commission 
101  8th  Street 
Oakland,  CA  94607 

Judy  Huang 

Regional  Water  Quality  Control  Board 
San  Francisco  Bay  Region 
1515  Clay  Street,  Suite  1400 
Oakland,  CA  94612 

Alan  Zahradnik 

Director  of  Planning  and  Policy  Analysis 

Golden  Gate  Bridge,  Highway  & 

Transportation 

1011  Andersen  Drive 

San  Rafael,  CA  94901 

Dennis  Baker,  Chief  of  Operations 
City  of  Daly  City 
Wastewater  Treatment  Plant 
153  Lake  Merced  Blvd. 
Daly  City,  CA  94015 


CITY  AND  COUNTY  OF  SAN 
FRANCISCO 

Attn  Pamela  David,  Director 

Mayor's  Office  of  Community  Development 

25  Van  Ness  Ave  Suite  700 

San  Francisco  CA  94102 

Marcia  Rosen,  Director 
Mayor's  Office  of  Housing 
25  Van  Ness  Ave  #  600 
San  Francisco  CA  94102 

Department  of  Building  Inspection 
Attn:  Frank  Chiu,  Superintendent 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco  CA  94103 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Avenue 


D-1 


Appendix  D:  Distribution  List 


Bureau  of  Energy  Conservation 
Hetch  Hetchy  Water  &  Power 
Attn:  John  Deakin,  Director 
1155  Market  Street,  4th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

Anson  B.  Moran,  GM 
Public  Utilities  Commission 
1155  Market  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

Leamon  Abrams,  Maria  Ayerdi 

Mayor's  Office  of  Economic  Development 

City  Hall  Room  448 

1  Dr.  Carlton  B  Goodlett  Place 

San  Francisco  CA  94102-4689 

Attn:  Linda  Avery,  Commission  Secretary 
(8  copies) 

San  Francisco  Planning  Commission 
1660  Mission  Street  Ste  500 
Francisco  CA  94103 

Attn:  Barbara  Moy 

San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Works 
Bureau  of  Street  Use  and  Mapping 
875  Stevenson  Street  Room  465 
San  Francisco  CA  94103 

Attn  Lorrie  Kalos  Asst  Deputy  Chief 
San  Francisco  Fire  Department 
Division  of  Planning  &  Research 
698  Second  Street 
San  Francisco  CA  94107 

Attn  Peter  Straus 
San  Francisco  Municipal  Railway 
MUNI  Service  Planning  Division 
1 145  Market  Street,  Suite  402 
San  Francisco  CA  94103 

Supervisor  Sophie  Maxwell 
City  Hall,  Room  #244 
1  Dr.  Carlton  B  Goodlett  Place 
San  Francisco  CA  94102-4689 

Attn:  Anthony  Delucchi 

Director  of  Property 

San  Francisco  Real  Estate  Department 

25  Van  Ness  Avenue,  4th  floor 

San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

Capt.  Timothy  Hettrich 

Police  Dept.,  Planning  Div.  Hall  of  Justice 

850  Bryant  Street,  Room  500 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103 


Attn:  Bond  Yee 
San  Francisco  DPT 
Traffic  Engineering  Division 
25  Van  Ness  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

Stan  Muraoka 
Redevelopment  Agency 
770  Golden  Gate  Ave.  3rd  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

Supervisor  Tom  Ammiano 
City  Hall,  Room  #244 
1  Dr.  Calton  B  Goodlett  Place 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102-4689 

CalTrans 

1 1 1  Grand  Avenue 
Oakland,  CA  94612 

Erik  Olafson 
CalTrain-SamTrans 
1250  San  Carlos,  3rd  Floor 
San  Carlos,  CA  94070 


LIBRARIES 

Government  Information  Services  (3  copies) 
San  Francisco  Main  Library  Civic  Center 
San  Francisco  CA  94102 

Stanford  University  Libraries 
Jonsson  Library  of  Government  Documents 
State  &  Local  Documents  Division 
Stanford  CA  94305 

Government  Publications  Department 
San  Francisco  State  University  Library 
1630  Holloway  Avenue 
San  Francisco  CA  94132 

Hastings  College  of  the  Law  Library 

200  McAllister  Street 

San  Francisco  CA  94102-4978 

Institute  of  Government  Studies 
109  Moses  Hall 
University  of  California 
Berkeley  CA  94720 


INTERESTED  SPONSORS/REPS 

Anna  Shimko 
Cassidy,  Shimko,  Dawson 
20  California  Street,  Ste  500 
San  Francisco,  CA94111 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


D-2 


Appendix  D:  Distribution  List 


Mike  Abbate 

Real  Estate  Manager 

Home  Depot 

3800  West  Chapman  Ave. 
Orange,  CA  92968 

GROUPS  AND  INDIVIDUALS 

Northwest  Bernal  Alliance 
3181  Mission  Street,  No.  135 
San  Francisco,  CA94110 

Bruce  Williams 
SPUR 

312  Sutter  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94108 

Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 
Mauricio  Vela,  Executive  Director 
515  Cortland  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  CA94114 

Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 
Joseph  Smooke,  Housing  Director 
515  Cortland  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  CA  941 14 

Sue  Hestor 

Attorney  at  Law 

870  Market  Street,  Room  1128 

San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

Bayview  Merchants  Association 

Mel  Washington 

P.O.  Box  24505 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Jim  Martin 

Bayview  Hunters  Point  PAC 

1800  Oakdale  Ave.,  Suite  B,  Room  8 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Linda  Richardson 

198  Jerrold  Avenue 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Bayshore  One,  LLC 

1625  Procyon  Street,  Ste.  201 

Las  Vegas,  NV  89103-5667 

Miles  J.  Scott 

Special  Assistant  to  the  Mayor 

1  Dr.  Carlton  B.  Goodlett  Place,  Ste.  448 

San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

Richard  Allman 
109  Gates 

San  Francisco,  CA  94110 


William  Billingsley 
418  Bayshore  Blvd. 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Phil  Lerner 

470  Bayshore  Blvd. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Terry  Black 

470  Bayshore  Blvd. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Ron  Rosano 

430  Bayshore  Blvd. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Rick  Karp 

956  Cole  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  941 17 

May  Gauthier 

3918  24th  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94114 

Jim  Collins 

440  Hoffman  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  941 14 

Jamie  Ross 

NW  Bernal  Heights 

2309  Bryant  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94110 

Gopal  Sarin 

754  Moultriest 

San  Francisco,  CA94110 

Hector  Guerra 

2088  Oakdale  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Susan  Hershey 

222  Cortland  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94110 

James  Wulff 

729  Andover  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA94110 

Ed  Gillera 
700  Heinz  #300 
Berkeley,  CA  94710 

Charles  Turner 
Community  Design  Center 
1705  Ocean  Ave. 
San  Francisco,  CA  941 12 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Avenue 


D-3 


Appendix  D:  Distribution  List 


A.  Mednick 

48  Macedonia  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA94110 

Arthur  de  Cordova 
2269  Chestnut  Street 
PMIB  277 

San  Francisco  CA  94123 

Joe  Steinberger 

353  Prospect  Ave. 

San  Francisco  CA94110 

Turnstone  Consulting 
Barbara  Sahm 
330Townsend  St.,  Ste216 
San  Francisco  CA  94107 

Debra  Leby 

103  Holly  Park  Circle 

San  Francisco  CA94110 

Dan  Conway 

115  Sansome#1205 

San  Francisco  CA  94104 

Grethen  Mokry 
308  Andover  Street 
San  Francisco  CA94110 

Monica  Garcia 

474  Valencia  St.  #280 

San  Francisco  CA  94103 

Chris  Witteman 

114  Nevada  Street 

San  Francisco  CA94110 


B.  DRAFT  EIR  NOTIFICATION 
DISTRIBUTION  LIST 

GROUPS  AND  INDIVIDUALS 

AIA  San  Francisco  Chapter 
Attn:  Bob  Jacobvitz 
130  Sutter  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 

Chi-Hsin  Shao 
CHS  Consulting  Group 
500  Sutter  Street,  Suite  216 
San  Francisco  CA  94102 

Farella  Braun  &  Martel 
Attn:  Mary  Murphy 
235  Montgomery  Street 
San  Francisco  CA  94104 


Richard  Mayer 
NRG  Energy  Center 
410  Jessie  Street,  Suite  702 
San  Francisco  CA  94103 

John  Bardis 

Sunset  Action  Committee 
1501  Lincoln  Way  #503 
San  Francisco  CA  94122 

Bruce  White 

3207  Shelter  Cove  Avenue 
Davis,  CA  95616 

Alice  Suet  Barkley  Esq 
30  Blackstone  Court 
San  Francisco  C A  94123 

Bay  Area  Council 

200  Pine  Street  Suite  300 

San  Francisco  CA  94104-2702 

Michael  Dyett 

Dyett  &  Bhatia 

755  Sansome  Street,  #400 

San  Francisco,  CA  941 1 1 

Georgia  Brittan 

San  Franciscans  for  Reasonable  Growth 

460  Duncan  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94131 

Attn:  Susan  R.  Diamond 
Brobeck,  Phleger,  Harrison 
One  Market  Plaza 
San  Francisco,  CA  94105 

Attn:  JayCahill 

Cahill  Contractors,  Inc. 

425  California  Street,  Suite  2300 

San  Francisco,  CA  94104 

Attn:  Carol  Lester 
Chicago  Title 

388  Market  Street,  13th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  94111 

Chinatown  Resource  Center 

1525  Grant  Avenue 

San  Francisco,  CA  94133 

David  Cincotta 

1388  Sutter  Street,  Suite  900 

San  Francisco,  C A  94102 

Coalition  for  San  Francisco  Neighborhoods 

P.O.  Box  42-5882 

San  Francisco,  CA  94142-5882 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Avenue 


D-4 


Appendix  D:  Distribution  List 


Attn:  John  Vaughan 

Cushman  &  Wakefield  of  California,  Inc. 

1  Maritime  Plaza,  Suite  900 

San  Francisco,  CA  94111 

DKS  Associates 

1956  Webster  Street,  #300 

Oakland,  CA  94612 

Attn:  John  Elberling 
Yerba  Buena  Consortium 
182  Howard  Street,  #519 
San  Francisco,  CA  94105 

Attn:  Carolyn  Dee 
Downtown  Association 
5  Third  Street,  Suite  520 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

EIP  Associates 

601  Montgomery  Street,  Suite  500 
San  Francisco,  C A  94111 

Environmental  Science  Associates  Inc 

225  Bush  St  Suite  1700 

San  Francisco  CA  94104-4207 

Mary  Anne  Miller 

San  Francisco  Tomorrow 

1239  42nd  Ave. 

San  Francisco  CA  94122 

Attn:  Executive  Director 

San  Francisco  Architectural  Heritage 

2007  Franklin  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94109 

Attn:  Steven  L.  Vettel 

Morrison  &  Foerster,  LLP 

Attorneys  at  Law 

425  Market  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94105-2482 

Gensler  and  Associates 
600  California  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

Attn:  Richard  A.  Judd 
Goldfarb  &  Lipman 
1300  Clay  Street,  9th  Floor 
City  Center  Plaza 
Oakland,  CA  94612-1455 

Attn:  Gerry  Katz 
Greenwood  Press,  Inc. 
P.O.  Box  5007 
Westport,  Conn  06881-5007 


Gruen,  Gruen  &  Associates 

564  Howard  Street 

San  Francisco,  C A  94105 

Melvin  Washington 

Bayview  Merchants  Association,  Inc. 

P.O.  Box  24505 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

The  Jefferson  Company 

10  Lombard  Street,  3rd  Floor 

San  Francisco,  CA  94111-1165 

Attn:  JanVargo 
Kaplan/McLaughlin/Diaz 
222  Vallejo  Street 
San  Francisco,  C A  94111 

Larry  Mansbach 
Mansbach  Associates 
582  Market  Street,  Ste.217 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 

Sally  Maxwell 
Maxwell  &  Associates 
1522  Grand  View  Drive 
Berkeley,  CA  94705 

Cliff  Miller 

89  Walnut  Avenue 

Corte  Madera  CA  94925-1028 

Attn:  Regina  Sneed 
National  Lawyers  Guild 
558  Capp  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94110 

Page  &  Turnbull 

724  Pine  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94109 

Attn:  Marie  Zeller 
Patri  Merker  Architects 
400  Second  Street,  Suite  400 
San  Francisco,  CA  94107 

Pillsbury,  Madison  &  Sutro 

Attn:  Environmental  and  Landuse  Section 

50  Fremont  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94105 

Dennis  Purcell 

Coblentz,  Patch,  Duffy  and  Bass 
222  Kearny  Street,  7th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  94108 

Attn:  Peter  Bass 
Ramsay/Bass  Interest 
3756  Grant  Avenue,  Suite  301 
Oakland,  C A  94610 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Avenue 


D-5 


Appendix  D:  Distribution  List 


James  Reuben 

Reuben  and  Alter 

235  Pine  Street,  16th  Floor 

San  Francisco,  CA  94104 

Barbara  W.  Sahm 
Turnstone  Consulting 
330  Townsend  Street,  Suite  216 
San  Francisco,  CA  94107 

Attn:  Bob  Rhine 

Capital  Planning  Department 

UCSF 

145  Irving  Street 

San  Francisco,  C A  94122 

David  P.  Rhoades  &  Associates 
364  Bush  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94104-2805 

Attn:  Thomas  N.  Foster 
Rothschild  &  Associates 
300  Montgomery  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 

Attn:  Dee  Dee  Workman,  Exec.  Director 
San  Francisco  Beautiful 
41  Sutter  Street,  #709 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 

Attn:  Stanley  Smith 

San  Francisco  Building  &  Construction 

Trades  Council 

2660  Newhall  Street,  #116 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124-2527 

San  Francisco  Chamber  of  Commerce 
235  Montgomery  12th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 

Attn:  Walter  Johnson 
San  Francisco  Labor  Council 
1188  Franklin  Street,  #203 
San  Francisco,  CA  94109 

SPUR 

Attn:  James  Chappell,  Executive  Director 

312  Sutter  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94108 

Attn:  Tony  Kilroy 
San  Francisco  Tomorrow 
41  Sutter  Street  #1579 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 

John  Sanger,  Esq. 

1  Embarcadero  Center,  12th  Floor 

San  Francisco,  C A  94111 


San  Francisco  Group 

Sierra  Club 

85  2nd  Street,  Floor  2 

San  Francisco,  C A  94105-3441 

Sedway  Group 

505  Montgomery  Street,  #600 
San  Francisco,  CA  941 1 1-2552 

Attn:  Dave  Kremer 
Shartsis  Freise  &  Ginsburg 
One  Maritime  Plaza,  1 8th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  94111 

Attn:  John  Kriken 
Skidmore,  Owings  &  Merrill,  LLP 
444  Market  Street,  Suite  2400 
San  Francisco,  C A  94111 

Attn:  Jim  Ross,  Director  of  Public  Affairs 

and  Political  Campaigns 

Solem  &  Associates 

550  Kearny  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94108 

Attn:  Hartmut  Gerdes 
Square  One  Productions 
1736  Stockton  Street,  Studio  7 
San  Francisco,  CA  94133 

Attn:  Robert  S.  Tandler 
3490  California  Street 
San  Francisco,  C A  94105 

Sustainable  San  Francisco 

P.O.  Box  460236 

San  Francisco,  CA  94146 

Jerry  Tone 

Montgomery  Capital  Corp. 
244  California  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94111 

Joel  Ventresca 

1278  44th  Avenue 

San  Francisco,  CA  94122 

Jon  Twichell  Associates 
70  Hermosa  Avenue 
Oakland,  C A  94618 

Stephen  Weicker 
899  Pine  Street  #1610 
San  Francisco,  CA  94108 

Calvin  Welch 

Council  of  Community  Housing  Orgs. 

409  Clayton  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94117 


2001. 0062  E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


D-6 


Appendix  D:  Distribution  List 


Eunice  Willette 
1323  Gilman  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Bethea  Wilson  &  Associates  Art  In 

Architecture 

2028  Scott,  Suite  204 

San  Francisco,  CA  94115 

David  C.  Levy  Esq 
Morrison  &  Foerster  LLP 
425  Market  St 

San  Francisco  CA  94105-2482 

Paul  Kollerer/Tom  Balestri 
Cahill  Construction  Services 
1599  Custer  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124-1414 

Andrew  Tuft 

Singer  Associates 

140  Second  Street,  2nd  Floor 

San  Francisco  CA  94105 

Diane  Wong 
UCSF  Campus  Planning 
3333  California  Street,  Suite  11 
San  Francisco  CA  94143-0286 

Dan  Cohen 
EDAW 

150  Chestnut  Street 
San  Francisco  CA  94111 

San  Francisco  MUNI 

Attn:  Steve  Nicketson 

875  Stevenson  Street,  Room  260 

San  Francisco  CA  94103 


MEDIA 

Attn:  BillShiffman 
Associated  Press 
303  2nd  Street,  #606  North 
San  Francisco,  CA  94107-1366 

Attn:  Gabe  Roth,  City  Editor 
San  Francisco  Bay  Guardian 
520  Hampshire  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94110 

San  Francisco  Business  Times 
275  Battery  Street,  Suite  940 
San  Francisco,  CA  94111 


San  Francisco  Chronicle 
Attn:  Patrick  Hoge 
City  Hall  Bureau 
901  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

Attn:  Gerald  Adams 
San  Francisco  Examiner 
901  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  C A  94103 

The  Sun  Reporter 

1791  Bancroft  Avenue 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124-2644 

Attn:  City  Desk 

San  Francisco  Independent 

1201  Evans  Avenue 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

NEIGHBORHOOD  GROUPS 

Kathy  Angus 
Co-Chair 

Bernal  Heights  So.  Slope  Org. 
99  Banks  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94110 

Charles  Bolton 
Co-Chairman 

North  West  Bernal  Alliance 

PO  Box  40219 

San  Francisco,  CA  94140 

Matt  Gonzalez 

City  Hall  Room  244 

Board  of  Supervisors 

1  Dr.  Carlton  B.  Goodlett  Place 

San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

Katy  Gough 

North  West  Bernal  Alliance 
301  Winfield  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA94110 

Melinda  Mazzetti 

South  Bernal  Heights  Design  Board 

PO  Box  410171 

San  Francisco,  C A  94101 

Terry  Milne 

321  Rutledge  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA94110 

Paul  Stein 

Milton  Meyer  &  Co. 

One  California  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  941 1 1 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Avenue 


D-7 


Appendix  D:  Distribution  List 


Mauricio  Vela 

Bernal  Heights  Housing  Corporation 
5 1 5  Cortland  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  CA94110 

President 

West  of  Twin  Peaks  Central  Council 

PO  Box  27112 

San  Francisco,  CA  94127 

Don  Bertone 
President 

Little  Hollywood  Association 

338  Lathrop  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94134 

Bill  Brown 

Calif.  Dept.  of  Substance  Control 
700  Heinz  Bldg.  F,  Ste.  200 
Berkeley,  CA  94710 

Theresa  Coleman 

42  Harbor  Road 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Brenda  Dar 

BVHP  Project  Area  Committee 
Southeast  Community  Facility 
1800  Oakdale  Avenue  Ste.  B  Rm.  8-10 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Zuheir  Erakat 

Super  Save  Market 

4517  Third  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Jill  Fox 

India  Basin  Neighborhood  Association 

911  Innes  Avenue 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Father  James  Goode,  OFM 
St.  Paul  of  the  Shipwreck  Church 
1 122  Jamestown  Ave. 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Lefty  Gordon 
1050  McAllister  St. 
San  Francisco,  CA94115 

Ralph  D.  House 
President 

Bayview  Hill  Neighborhood  Assn. 

1031  Key  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 


Espanola  Jackson 
President 

District  7  Democratic  Club 

4909  3rd  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Michael  Janis 
Wholesale  Produce  Market 
2095  Jerrold  Avenue  Ste.  212 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Shirley  Jones 
Executive  Director 
Caheed,  Inc. 
1331  Evans  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Lisa  King 

Planning  Division 

Bayview  Hunters  Point 

C/o  Redevmt  Agcy  770  Golden  Gate 

San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

King 

Bayview  Senior  Cit.  Ctr. 
1706  Yosemite  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Bob  Leyallet 
Secretary 

Bayview-Hunter's  Point  PAL 

1401  Griffin  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Maverick  Madison 
President 

Shafter  Avenue  Community  Club 

1629  Shafter  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Sophie  Maxwell 

City  Hall  Room  #244 

Board  of  Supervisors 

1  Dr.  Carlton  B.  Goodlett  Place 

San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

Harold  McCoy 
McCoy's  Patrol  Service 
6271  Third  St. 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Victor  Mederis 

Double  Rock  Baptist  Church 

1595  Shafter  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Sam  Murray 

New  Bayview  Committee 

4909  3rd  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/1 96  Loomis  Avenue 


D-8 


Appendix  D:  Distribution  List 


Roger  L.  Peters 
Commerce  &  Maritime 
2195  Green  Street  #4 
San  Francisco,  CA  94123 

Mary  Ratclifff 

Editor/Publisher 

New  Bayview  Newspaper 

4908  Third  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

James  E.  Smith,  Jr. 

1911  Jennings  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Betsy  Stallinger 

Bayview  Hunters  Point  Res.  Comm. 

1089  GilmanSt. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Mary  Lee  Taylor 

San  Francisco  Beauty  Salon 

4928  Third  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Cheryl  Towns 

NICE  Committee 

1538  Innes  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Julia  Viera 

Executive  Director 

Friends  of  Islais  Creek  Channel 

6  Hillview  Ct. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Onnyk  Walker 

Third  Street  Merchants 

4348  Third  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Paul  Warenski 

Oriental  Warehouse  Neigh.  Committee 
650  Delancey  Street,  #310 
San  Francisco,  CA  94107 

Melvin  Washington 
President 

Bayview  Merchants  Association 

PO  Box  24505 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Milton  H.  Williams 
Pastor 

Bayview  Baptist  Church 

1509  Oakdale  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 


Claude  E.  Wilson 

Executive  Director 

Southeast  Alliance  for  Envir.  Just 

744  Innes  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Anna  Waden  Library 

5075  3rd  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Admin.  Asst.  Health,  Educ,  Employ 
C.A.H.E.E.D.  Inc.  Calif.  Assn.  For 
4918  3rd  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

McKinnon  Avenue  Community  Club 
1514  McKinnon  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

President 

Residents  Assoc.  of  All  Hallows  Ga 

39  Baldwin  Court 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

S.  E.  Community  Facility  Commission 

1800  Oakdale  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

S.F.  League  of  Urban  Gardeners 

2088  Oakdale  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124-2041 

Julie  Angeloni 

Hlth  Ctr.  For  Homeless  Vets 

205-  13th  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

Agnes  Batteiger 
Secretary 

Gray  Panthers  of  San  Francisco 
1182  Market  St.,  Ste.  203 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

Michael  Chan 

Housing  Director 

Asian,  Inc. 

1670  Pine  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94109 

Gordon  Chin 
Executive  Director 
Chinatown  Resource  Center 
1525  Grant  Ave.  (Tower) 
San  Francisco,  CA  94133 

Pat  Christensen 

Executive  Secretary 

S.F.  Council  of  Dist.  Merch.  Assn. 

Box  31802 

San  Francisco,  CA  94131 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue 


D-9 


Appendix  D:  Distribution  List 


Mary  Daugherty 
President 

The  New  Citywide  Residents  Allian. 

P.O.Box  15303 

San  Francisco,CA  94 1 1 5 

James  C.  Fabris 

Executive  Vice  President 

San  Francisco  Assn.  Of  Realtors 

301  Grove  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

Gen  Fujioka 

Asian  Law  Caucus 

939  Market  St.  #201 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103-1730 

Ted  Gullicksen 

Office  Manager 

San  Francisco  Tenants  Union 

558  Capp  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA94110 

Robert  Jacobvitz 
Executive  Director 
American  Institute  of  Architects 
130  Sutter  Street,  Suite  600 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 

Ellen  Johnck 

Executive  Director 

Bay  Planning  Coalition 

10  Lombard  St.,  Ste.  408 

San  Francisco,  CA  941 1 1-6205 

Arnold  Johnson 

Neighbhds  In  Transition  (NIT- AMP) 
1596  Post.  St.,  Second  Floor 
San  Francisco,  C A  94131 

Sheila  Kolenc 
Assistant  Director 
San  Francisco  Beautiful 
41  Sutter  St.,  St.  709 
San  Francisco,  CA  94104 

Bill  Morrison 

California  Lawyers  for  the  Arts 

Fort  Mason  Center 

San  Francisco,  CA  94123 

Sam  Murray 

New  Bayview  Committee 

4909  3rd  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 


Janan  New 

San  Francisco  Apartment  Assn. 
265  Ivy  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94102-4463 

Jake  S.  Ng 
President 

San  Francisco  Neighbors  Assn  (SFNA) 
1 900  Noriega  Street  Ste.  202 
San  Francisco,  CA  94122 

Joe  O'Donoghue 
President 

Residential  Builders  Assn.  Of  S.F. 
530  Divisadero  Street,  Ste.  179 
San  Francisco,  CA94117 

Linda  Pasquinucci 
Manager 

St.  Anthony  Foundation 

818  Steiner  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  941 17 

Bok  F.  Pon 
President 

American  Chinese  Association 

435  -  14th  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA94118 

Mara  Raider 

EMPTY  THE  SHELTERS 
126  Hyde  Street,  #102 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 

El  St.  John 
Vice  President 

San  Franciscans  for  a  Healthy 
135  Townsend  Street  Ste.  621 
San  Francisco,  CA  94107 

Stanley  Warren 

Secretary-Treasurer 

S.F.  Bldg.  &  Constr.  Trades  Council 

2660  Newhall  Street  Rm.  1 16 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124-2527 

Teresita  Williams 

Ex  Offender  Assistance  Foundation 
9  Goldmine  Dr.,  #C 
San  Francisco,  CA  94131 

African-American  Hist.  Society 
Fort  Mason  Center,  Bldg.  C 
San  Francisco,  CA  94123 

Radius  Services 
445  Grant  Ave.  400 
San  Francisco,  CA  94108 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 1 96  Loomis  Avenue 


D-10 


Appendix  D:  Distribution  List 


Joan  G.  Zimmerman  Trust 
4625  Procyon  St.  #201 
Las  Vegas,  NV  80103-5667 

Joan  G.  Zimmerman  Trust 

1954  Lombard  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94123 

Barneveld  Building  Corp. 
560  Barneveld  Ave. 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

U.  S.  Rentals 

11875  Dublin  Bl.  #A1 18 

Dublin,  CA  94568 

Occupant 

123  Loomis  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Barneveld  Dorman  LLC 
270  N.  Canon  Dr.  #1195 
Beverly  Hills,  CA  90210 

Judith  L.  Tinkelenberg 

911  Swan  St. 

Foster  City,  CA  94404 

SSJV  Inc. 

550  Barneveld  Av. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

William  K  L  Chan  et  al 
20  Longview  Ct. 
Hillsborough,  CA  94010 

Apparel  Triangle  LLC 
270  N.  Canon  Dr#1195 
Beverly  Hills,  CA  90210 

Caltrans 

1 1 1  Grand  Av. 

Oakland,  CA  94612 

Charles  Bricker 

PO  Box  783 

San  Diego,  CA92112 

Occupant 

366  Bayshore  Bl 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Thomas  G.  Allan 
2800  Rivera  Dr. 
Burlingame,  CA  94010 

Occupant 

390  Bayshore  Blvd. 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 


Dennis  Auto  Repair  LLC 

35  Lydia  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Occupant 

380  Bayshore  Bl 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

William  H.  Billingsley 

1 8  Topside  Way 

San  Francisco,  CA  94112 

Occupant 

418  Bayshore  Bl 

San  Franscisco,  CA  94124 

Banda  L  P 

3701  Market  St.  #2 

San  Francisco,  CA  94131 

Occupant 

410  Bayshore  Bl 

San  Francisco  CA  94124 

Emil  &  Nadine  Bugna 
45  La  Vista  Way 
San  Rafael,  CA  94901 

Occupant 

470  Bayshore  Bl 

San  Francisco,  CA94110 

Georgios  Giavris 

1414  Rivera  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA94116 

Rosano  Properties  LLC 

430  Bayshore  Bl 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Damon  Raike 

1170  Sacramento  St.  #15D 

San  Francisco,  CA  94108 

Inez  M.  Gregoire,  et  al 
400  Miller  Creek  Rd. 
San  Rafael,  CA  94903 

David  P.  Gregoire  et  al 
400  Miller  Creek  Rd. 
San  Rafael,  CA  94903 

Occupant 

362  Bayshore  Bl 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Occupant 

368  Bayshore  Bl 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/ 196  Loomis  Avenue 


D-1I 


Appendix  D:  Distribution  List 


Levin  Jos.  Realty  Co.  of  SF 

2750  Ocean  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94132 


Robert  Caldwell 
195  Bayshore  Blvd. 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 


Occupant 

367  Bayshore  Bl 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 


Gerardo  Martin 


300  Bayshore  Blvd. 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 


Bayshore  One,  LLC 

1954  Lombard  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94123 


Stephen  Summers 
362  Bayshore  Blvd. 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 


Joan  G.  Goodman  Trust 

1954  Lombard  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94123 


Andre  Sartor 

250  Bayshore  Blvd. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 


McDonalds  Corp. 
AMF  O'Hare  Airport 
Chicago,  IL  60666 

Sheridan  Trust 
813Nord  Ave. 
Chico,  CA  95926 

Jack  Tseng  etal 

55-57  Waterloo  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  92124 

Occupant 

55  Waterloo  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Occupant 

57  Waterloo  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Angela  Rose  Boyd 

788  Huron  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Occupant 

500  Bayshore  Blvd. 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Occupant 

500A  Bayshore  Blvd. 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Bayshore  Investment  Co. 
470  Bayshore  Blvd. 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

Occupant 

550  Bayshore  Blvd. 
San  Francisco,  CA  94124 

SF  Real  Estate  Dept. 
25  Van  Ness  Av.  #400 
San  Francisco,  CA  94102 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore/196  Loomis  Avenue  D-12 


Appendix  E 


Comment  Letters 


i 
1 
I 
i 

i 
i 
I 
i 
i 
i 

i 
I 
i 
I 
i 
i 


A  S SOCIATES 


9  2  5     9  4  5  7966 


P  .  ki2 


July  1  I.  2003 


Paul  Malt/ei 

Environmental  Review  Officer 
C'ily  and  County  of  San  Francisco 
1660  Mission  Street,  5th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  04103 


Abrams  Associates 


importation  «  TratiH  ■  Engineering  •  Planning 


112 


Kc:  2001.0062E  -  Home  Depot  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard 
Environmental  Impact  Report 


Draft 


Dear  Mr.  Malt/er: 


I  have  reviewed  the  draft  E1R  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  at  491  Bayshonj 
Boulevard  and  have  a  number  of  comments  on  the  EIR.  I  am  also  suggesting  that  there 
are  several  areas  where  additional  information  is  required  in  order  to  complete  the 
environmental  review  of  the  project. 

The  proposed  project  is  a  153,000  square  foot  Home  Depot  with  550  parking 
spaces  that  is  planned  for  the  5.7  acre  Goodman  site  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  in  San  \ 
Francisco.  It  will  generate  over  12,000  vehicle  trips  per  day,  with  about  1 ,200  trips 
during  the  peak  hour.  This  is  a  very  significant  traffic  generator  for  the  City. 

SUMMARY 

The  Draft  FIR  is  deficient  and  needs  to  be  expanded  in  several  areas  of  traffic  and 
transportation.  First  of  all,  the  traffic  mitigations  required  of  Home  depot  are  less  than 
sufficient.  A  more  thorough  economic  analysis  is  needed  to  balance  the  impact  of  new 
I  Ionic  Depot  traffic,  and  the  need  to  upgrade  the  streets,  traffic  signals  and  other  elements 


nf  the  traffic  system  in  this  part  of  San  Francisco]  Secondly,  further  study  of  the  potential 


parking  impacts  are  needed,  especially  with  respect  to  the  overflow  of  Home  Depot 


parking  onto  neighborhood  streets  and  onto  neighboring  businesses.  The  amount  ot 


94 

91  ,  .  ,  

the  third  floor,  top  level  of  the  garage  will  not  be  effectively  utilized.  1  hi  idly,  a  more 
detailed,  more  realistic  study  of  the  cumulative  (2015)  impacts  of  the  Home  Depot  s|iould 
I  04     be  done,  particularly  with  respect  to  the  impacts  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  between  Silver 


parking  on-site  is  well  below  what  would  available  for  other  Home  Depot's,  Furthermore, 


139 


Avenue  and  Cesar  Chavez  Boulevard.  [Additional  mitigation  measures  and  a  traffic 


improvement  program  should  be  included 


P  ETA  1 1 ,  E  D  COM  M  E NTS 

The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  issues  that  we  wish  to  bring  to  your  attention. 
These  issues  illustrate  the  inadequacy  of  the  traffic  section  of  the  FIR  and  the  potential 
for  significant  traffic  and  parking  impacts: 


2«1  :>  Mitchell  Drive,  Suite  120  •  Walnut  Creek,  CA  94598  •  (925)  945-0201  •  r.rx  (925)  945-7966 

E-l 


925    945  7966 


P  .  03 


Comments  on  the  Home  Depot  Draft  EIR 


Abrams  Associates 


Pt. in  l)f|l|; 


145 


103 


56 


77 


I  )  Mitigation  Measures  -  As  a  project  that  generates  1 2,000  vehicle  trips  per  day, 
with  about  1,200  vehicles  during  the  peak  hour,  it  is-  simply  amazing  how  little  traffic 
impact  will  be  created.  The  only  mitigations  that  have  been  proscribed  are  some  very 
minor  traffic  signal  adjustments,  and  some  pavement  marking  changes.  In  fact,  these 
mitigations  should  be  routinely  taken  care  of  by  the  City  Public  Works  staff.  Given!  the 
impact  of  this  project,  the  City  should  have  Home  Depot  be  responsible  for  improving  the 
Ira! tie  conditions  on  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  bringing  traffic  equipment  up  to  current 
standards   This  means  modern  traffic  signals,  improved  turn  lanes  at  signalized 
intersections,  and  improved  pedestrian  controls  at  each  of  the  signalized  intersections. 


49 


105 


104 


2.)  Cumulative  Traffic  Forecasts  (201 5)  -  The  traffic  model  results  shown  in  the 
DlilR  for  the  various  intersections  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  are  very  questionable,  anjd  do 
not  appear  to  reflect  the  true  growth  in  this  corridor.  An  extremely  simplified  Cumulative 
analysis  was  prepared  for  this  project  using  a  basic  1  percent  per  year  instead  of  basing  it 
on  the  actual  potential  for  future  development  in  the  area.  A  project  of  this  size  in  an  area 
with  many  underutilized  parcels  should  be  required  to  take  a  more  thorough  approach  to 
determining  the  significance  of  the  project's  contribution  to  cumulative  conditions.  Some 
of  the  traf  fic  factors  that  have  not  been  considered  are: 


The  baseline  traffic  counts  are  very  low  in  comparison  to  historic  traffic  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  most  recent  counts  reflect  a  very  economy  in  San  Francisco 
and  the  through  volumes  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  are  in  many  cases  more  than  10  percent 
under  comparable  data  collected  two  years  ago. 


The  traffic  forecasts  do  not  appear  to  consider  the  major  changes  that  will  take 
place  in  the  Third  Avenue  corridor  that  will  clearly  cause  an  increase  in  traffic  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  especially  large  trucks. 


The  traffic  forecasts  do  not  appear  to  include  any  other  traffic  from  "induced 
growth"  projects  that  will  surely  be  developed  on  nearby  vacant  properties,  and 
underutilized  properties. 


3.)  Intersection  Capacity  Impacts-  The  signalized  intersections  capacity  results  at 
Industrial,  Cortland,  Oakdalc  and  Silver  arc  all  extremely  close  to  exceeding  the  City 
standards.  Lven  a  very  small  increase  in  traffic  would  trigger  the  LOS  "C"  intersection 
standards  used  in  San  Francisco.  Considering  the  many  problems  with  the  trip  generation 
and  distribution  assumptions,  it  is  clear  that  a  more  thorough  analysis  is  needed 
presenting  more  details  and  including  additional  mitigations  that  will  assure  that  LOS 
"D"  (less  than  40  seconds  of  delay  per  vehicle)  will  be  maintained.  This  is  needed  before 
the  traffic  study  can  be  considered  "sufficient  evidence"  to  conclude  that  the  proposed 
mitigations  would  "clearly  mitigate  the  effects"  at  the  study  intersections. 


4.)  Proposed  Redesign  of  Bayshore  Boulevard  -  The  entire  roadway  section  of 
Bayshore  Boulevard  between  Industrial  and  Oakdale  will  be  affected  by  this  project.  The 
project  docs  not  adequately  address  the  access  and  operational  impacts  of  the  proposed 


E-2 


HOSUtlHIE' 


94" 


04 


77 


73 


101 


72 


93 


94 


Pagr  .1 

Comments  mi  (lit!  Home  Drufl  KIR 


Abrams  Associates 


mitigations  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  The  installation  of  a  raised  median  on  Bayshore 
may  mil  lie  leasible  because  of  property  access  issues,  design  problems,  ami  tbe  increased 
number  of  I  l-mrns.  These  issues  should  be  studied  by  the  City  and  a  final  plan  should  be 
developed. 


-*»-)  Access  Driveways  to  the  Proposed  Home  Depot  -  The  amount  of  peak  hour 
traffic  at  each  driveway  needs  to  be  analyzed  and  presented  more  clearly.  In  particular, 
the  proposed  driveway  out  of  Home  Depot  at  Cortland  is  quite  substandard,  and  wil) 
result  in  significant  congestion,  back-up  and  confusion  within  the  garage.  The  adjacent 
parking  aisles  and  the  customer  pick-up  traffic  are  all  mixed  together,  and  will  result  in 
extensive  traffic  congestion. 


6.)  Public  Transit  Issues  -  This  issue  has  not  been  adequately  addressed.  Will 
there  be  new  bus  stops?  Where  will  they  be  located?  How  much  new  transit  patronage 
will  be  generated?  Can  the  existing  bus  routes  accommodate  this  new  patronage?  If  not, 
has  Home  Depot  been  required  to  contribute  to  any  improvements?  There  are  clearly 
many  questions  that  the  Draft  E1R  does  not  address. 


7.)  Traffic  Operations  at  the  Cortland  Underpass  -  This  issue  was  raised  in  earlier 
comments  and  has  never  been  answered.  Can  Cortland  Avenue  accommodate  the  growth 
in  traffic?  I  low  much  parking  will  be  removed?  Does  the  underpass  need  to  be 
widened?  How  much  will  delay  be  increased?  These  questions  still  need  to  be  answered. 
It  is  very  clear  that  additional  analyses  of  the  operations  in  this  area  are  required  to  verify 
(he  finding  that  no  further  mitigations  are  required. 


K.)  Parking  Implications-  This  subject  also  clearly  needs  more  analysis.  The 
p. irking  generation  demand  numbers  need  to  be  reviewed  carefully  and  more  backup 
provided  since  they  are  based  on  a  study  prepared  almost  10  years  ago  and  provided  by 
the  project  sponsor.  An  alternative  calculation  method  should  be  provided  to  verify  the 
numbers  used  in  the  study. 

Other  big-box  businesses,  including  Home  Depot,  typically  require  that  a 
commercial  real  eslate  developer  provide  at  five  (5)  parking  spaces  per  1,000  square  feet 
in  new  shopping  centers.  For  this  project,  this  would  indicate  the  need  for  at  least  765 
parking  spaces.  The  proposed  project  could  have  a  deficiency  of  over  200  spaces.  In 
addition,  of  the  550  spaces  proposed  for  the  Bayshore  Home  Depot,  about  270  spaces  are 
located  on  the  third  fioor  rooftop  level,  that  will  be  very  inconvenient  for  the  majority  of 
Home  Depot's  customers. 


We  believe  that  this  project  will  result  in  a  great  unmet  demand  for  on-street 
parking  on  l.oomis,  Waterloo,  Industrial,  Cortland  Avenue  and  many  other  nearby 
streets.  This  on-strcet  parking  will  become  far  more  convenient  to  customers  instead  of 
using  the  rooftop  level  of  the  Home  Depot  parking  structure.  The  neighboring  businesses 
will  be  greatly  impacted  by  overflow  parking  from  the  Home  Depot.  This  issue  needs  to 
be  thoroughly  reviewed.  It  is  quite  likely  that  the  required  mitigation  would  be  an 


E-3 


9  2  5     9  4  5  7966 


P  .  ©5 


Abrams  Associates 

i«  mi  •■('-•!  1. 1 1  .i.i  4  li  .»!;■,   •  I  .1,  miviili;;  •  I'l.iiuttni: 

expanded  parking  facility  lor  Home  Depot,  or  alternatively,  a  smaller  store   The  eurrent 
parking  ratio  is  out  of  balance 


Sincerely  yours, 


Charles  M.  Abrams 
President,  Abrams  Associates 
Registered  Professional  Civil  and  Traffic 
Engineer  -  T.E.  License  No.  1417 


Page  4 

('oin moots  oit  tin-  Home  Depot  Draft  EIR 


Date:     /  ^/°1> 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 

Environmental  Review  Officer  RFCEIVFD 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 

1660  Mission  Street  jSjj    0  9  2003 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

PLANNING  DEPT 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 
Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 

,  ^-■'{C  i    (a.  <^J  < 


Sincerely, 


Signature 


Printed  Name:  

Address:    2^   gY7*^,.  #  $    TT  (A     'W<«  0 


E-5 


Date:  CftM~}> 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 


JL  0  9  2883 


RECEIVED 


PLANNING  DEPT 


RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 
Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


Sincerely, 


Date:  ?-6-<Z^ 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003. 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  E1R  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home 
Depot  project  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the 
approval  of  this  project,  as  it  will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned: 


I  love  my  neighborhood.  Today  I  took  a  book  and  sat  down  on  a  sidewalk  bench  in  front  of  a 
cafe.  Inside,  folks  were  brunching,  while  outside  people  were  going  about  their  quiet 
neighborhood  day,  picking  up  a  few  groceries  on  the  corner,  returning  a  movie  rented  the  night 
before,  patting  the  heads  of  the  dogs  awaiting  their  owners'  return.  I  chatted  with  waiters  on  both 
sides  of  the  street,  and  waved  to  friends  driving  by. 

I  live  in  a  wonderful  neighborhood.  It's  unthinkable  that  such  a  quiet,  quaint  place  could  exist  in 
one  of  the  largest,  most  famous  cities  in  America  —  San  Francisco.  The  street  on  which  the  events 
of  my  day  occurred  is  Cortland  Avenue,  the  pulsing  heart  beneath  the  great  Red  Hill  above. 

If  the  mega-retail  chain  Home  Depot  built  and  opened  a  store  down  the  hill  at  the  end  of 
Cortland,  this  peaceful  scene  would  change  forever,  would  in  fact  disappear.  Those  who  would 
shop  at  this  Home  Depot,  coming  from  San  Francisco  neighborhoods  lying  to  the  north  and  west 
of  Bernal  Heights,  would  all  converge  at  the  intersection  of  Mission  and  Cortland  streets,  file 
their  way  onto  Cortland,  and  impatiently  push  up  and  over  the  hill  to  Home  Depot.  In  fact,  this 
traffic  would  push  right  past  two  other  independent  hardware  stores  on  their  way  to  Home  Depot, 
which  would  likely  go  out  of  business  in  Home  Depot's  wake. 

If  this  were  to  become  reality,  I  would  no  longer  have  days  like  I  had  today  -  reading  on  the 
sidewalk  bench,  waving  hello  to  my  neighbors.  Home  Depot's  presence  would  pollute  the  air  I 
breathe,  the  scene  I  gaze  upon,  and  the  quietness  we  enjoy  in  Bernal  Heights.  I  would  feel 
alienated  from  these  strangers  pushing  past  me  to  consume  retail  goods. 


I  certainly  recognize  my  blessings:  I  have  a  good  job,  I'm  able  to  live  in  San  Francisco,  on 
Cortland  Avenue  and  enjoy  the  'small  town'  of  Bernal  Heights.  Home  Depot  has  promised  jobs. 
Many  of  my  friends  need  jobs,  many  people  in  Bayview  and  Hunters  Point  need  jobs.  But,  I  must 


JOI  0  9  2003 


E-7 


ask,  at  what  cost?  These  will  be  mini  mum  wage  jobs  -  minimum  wage  is  not  a  living  wage, 
especially  m  this  city,  which  is  one  of  the  two  most  expensive  in  the  U.S. 


In  closing,  I  want  to  quote  Al  Norman,  from  his  book  _Slam-Dunking  Wal-Mart_,  lists  the  "10 
sins  of  retail  sprawl".  In  his  book,  he  mainly  addresses  "Hometowns,  not  Home  Depot,"  but  I 
think  this  speaks  directly  to  the  future  of  this  precious  urban  neighborhood. 

*  It  destroys  the  economic  and  environmental  value  of  land 

*  It  encourages  an  inefficient  land-use  pattern  that  is  very  expensive  to  serve. 

*  It  fosters  redundant  competition  between  local  governments,  an  economic  war  of  tax 
incentives. 

*  It  forces  costly  infrastructure  development  at  the  edge  of  towns. 

*  It  causes  disinvestment  from  established  core  commercial  areas. 

*  It  requires  the  use  of  public  tax  support  for  revitalizing  rundown  core  areas. 

*  It  degrades  the  visual,  aesthetic  character  of  local  communities. 

*  It  lowers  the  value  of  surrounding  commercial  and  residential  property,  reducing  public 
revenues. 

*  It  weakens  the  sense  of  place  and  community  cohesiveness. 

*  It  masquerades  as  a  form  of  economic  development. 

Please,  no  Home  Depot.  If  I  must  patronize  Home  Depot,  I  will  travel  to  Colma.  But  truth  be 
told,  I  will  continue  to  patronize  the  smaller  Cole  Hardware  down  the  street. 


Sincerely, 


Kathy  Allen 

404  Cortland  Avenue 

San  Francisco,  CA  941 10 


E-8 


Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 

515  Cortland  Avenue,  San  Francisco,  CA  94110  ■  t:  415.206.2140  ■  f:  415.648.0793  "  bhnc.org 


RECF'Vpn 

JUL  2  8  2003  July  24>  2°03 

PLANNING  DEPT 

Dear  Ms  Chan: 

Enclosed  is  the  corrected  first  section  of  the  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center's 
comments  of  the  Home  Depot  Draft  EIR.  Sorry  for  any  confusion. 

Also,  here  is  the  list  of  individuals  and  their  contact  information  that  contributed  to  the 
Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center  comments  on  the  Home  Depot  Draft  Environmental 
Impact  Report. 

Eve  Bach,  Arc  Ecology 

833  Market  Street,  Suite  1 107 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

Barbara  Kyle 

50  Santa  Marina  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94110 

Ron  Morgan  • 

238  Richland  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA94110 


Thank  you 

/h 

Ron  Morgan 
Community  Organizing  Coordinator 
Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 


1 

9 

7  8 

Member-Led,  Community-Supported  for  25  Years 

2 

0 

0  3 

COMMUNITY  ORGANIZING  ■  HOUSING  PROGRAMS  ■  SENIOR  SERVICES  ■  YOUTH  SERVICES 

E-9 


COMMENTS  ON  THE  HOME  DEPOT  DRAFT  EIR  -  DATA  COLLECTION, 
METHODOLOGY,  LAND  USE,  GENERAL  PLAN  COMPLAINCE,  TRAFFIC  ISSUES 


I.  THE  EIR  AND  PROJECT  APPROVAL 

 A.  The  EIR  must  clarify  Planning  Commission's  role  in  approving  the  Project 

The  EIR  needs  to  itemize  the  Planning  Commission  approvals  requested  by  the  applicant  that  will  be 
based  on  this  EIR1.  The  description  on  page  2  of  Planning  Commission  approvals  ("Planning  Department 
staff-initiated  discretionary  review  before  the  Planning  Commission")  is  surprisingly  vague.  The 
description  of  Project  approval  requirements  on  pages  33  and  34  suggest  that  the  Planning  Commission's 
role  is  limited  to  certification  of  the  EIR.  The  text  states  the  "the  City  is  required  to  find  that  the  proposed 
project  or  legislation  is  consistent  with  the  [Prop  M]  Priority  Policies",  but  is  unclear  who  in  the  City 
makes  this  determination.  The  listing  of  approvals  needed  from  the  Department  of  Public  Works,  the 
Department  of  Building  Inspections,  the  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic,  and  the  Board  of  Supervisors 
at  least  give  some  idea  of  what  specific  approvals  would  be  needed.  Our  questions  to  the  Planning 
Department  contact  for  this  Project  were  answered2  with  a  referral  to  someone  else  in  the  Department 
rather  than  an  answer.  (See  attachment  1) 

 B.  The  public  needs  an  early  opportunity  to  comment  on  the  merits  of  the  Project. 

Although  certification  of  the  EIR  is  a  separate  decision,  it  appears  that  the  Planning  Commission  and  all 
of  the  other  agencies  that  may  provide  Project  approvals  will  be  required  to  make  Findings  of  Overriding 
Considerations3  since  all  of  the  alternatives  considered  in  this  EIR  have  unmitigable  impacts.  Given  the 
controversy  over  the  merits  of  the  Project,  the  Planning  Commission  should  ensure  that  there  is  adequate 
opportunity  for  the  public  to  voice  their  views  on  the  content  of  such  Findings.  As  the  officials 
responsible  for  determining  whether  this  Project  has  value  that  overrides  its  unmitigable  environmental 
impacts,  the  Planning  Commission  needs  to  provide  themselves  and  the  public  with  adequate  time  to 
review  proposed  findings  carefully  to  determine  if  they  are  factually  accurate  and  reflective  of  their 
values. 

II.  COMMENTS  ON  ACCESSIBILITY  OF  DATA  AND  INTEGRITY  OF  THE  ANALYSIS 

A.  Data  cited  in  the  DEIR  must  be  accessible  to  the  public  during  the  DEIR  review 
 period 

Most  of  the  data  used  in  the  DEIR's  analysis  of  traffic  impacts  was  provided  by  Home  Depot.  The 
Planning  Department  rejected  our  request  for  an  opportunity  to  review  this  data  (see  attachment  l)4  during 
the  DEIR  review  period,  making  it  impossible  for  us  to  prepare  fully  informed  comments  on  the  traffic 
analysis.  We  must  repeat  our  request  that  the  City  must  make  the  data  available  and  further  that  they 
extend  the  review  period  to  enable  the  officials  and  the  public  to  review  and  comment  on  the  data. 

At  the  July  10th  public  hearing,  Commissioner  Lisa  Feldstein  asked  about  Eve  Bach's  oral  comments  on 
this  problem.  Tammy  Chan  of  the  Planning  Department  replied  that  all  of  the  data  is  in  the  Project  file 
and  is  available  for  inspection  by  appointment.  This  response  was  incorrect.  Ron  Morgan  of  the  Bernal 
Heights  Neighborhood  Center  inspected  the  file  three  times  since  publication  of  the  DEIR  (and  twice 
before  that).  Because  the  data  underlying  the  traffic  analysis  was  not  in  the  file,  he  corresponded  with  Ms 
Chan  by  e-mail  asking  what  he  needed  to  do  to  be  able  to  examine  the  data.  Her  response  was  that  his 


1  The  description  of  the  project  must  include  "A  list  of  permits  and  other  approvals  required  to  implement  the  project".  (§15124 
(d)  (1)  (B) 

2  e-mail  from  Tammy  Chan  to  Ron  Morgan,  6/27/03 
3 §15093 

4  e-mail  from  Tammy  Chan  to  Ron  Morgan,  6/27/03 


E-10 


2 

request  was  a  comment  on  the  accuracy  of  the  data  and  it  would  be  included  among  comments  on  the 
|   DEIR.  A  copy  of  the  e-mail  is  attached. 

B.  Compliance  with  City  Guidelines  is  necessary  to  ensure  an  independent 
 Transportation  Study. 

We  also  object  to  reliance  by  the  Transportation  Study  on  data  selectively  provided  by  the  Sponsor.  This 
practice  breaches  the  firewall  between  traffic  consultant  and  project  Sponsor  mandated  by  the  City  and 
severely  compromises  the  integrity  of  the  environmental  review  process. 

"The  role  of  the  project  Sponsor  and  its  representatives  during  the  preparation  of  the  transportation 
report  should  be  limited  to  provision  of  details  concerning  the  project,  response  to  recommended 
changes  affecting  project  circulation,  and  indication  of  support  of  lack  of  support  for 
recommended  mitigation  measures  and  other  transportation  improvements  identified  in  the  impact 
report."5 

A  traffic  analysis  based  on  data  selected  by  the  project  Sponsor6  -  especially  data  that  cannot  be 
scrutinized  or  verified  by  the  public  -  is  not  entitled  to  the  deference  ordinarily  given  to  the  City's 
discretion.  Although  it  is  theoretically  possible  that  the  Sponsor  selected  data  that  accurately  represents 
Project  conditions,  it  is  equally  possible  that  data  was  chosen  that  understates  impacts  or  otherwise 
predetermines  conclusions.  The  EIR  therefore  must  either  provide  independent  verification  that  the 
selected  data  is  accurate,  objective,  and  appropriate  or  rewrite  the  EIR  with  data  that  satisfies  those 
standards.  In  either  case,  the  DEIR  needs  to  be  revised  and  recirculated. 

 C.  The  EIR  must  include  the  City's  objectives  for  the  Project. 

The  only  objectives  included  in  the  DEIR  are  those  of  the  Project  Sponsor.  A  careful  reading  of  the 
CEQA's  purposes  in  requiring  a  Statement  of  Objectives7  make  it  clear  that  the  EIR  must  include  a 
statement  of  the  lead  agency's  objectives  in  considering  approval  of  the  Project.  CEQA  Guidelines 
explain  that  a  major  function  of  the  Project  Objectives  is  to  provide  the  agency  with  the  basis  for 
developing  and  evaluating  Project  alternatives,  and  for  determining  whether  there  are  considerations  that 
override  unmitigable  impacts. 

The  DEIR  cannot  properly  evaluate  alternatives  because  it  has  not  articulated  the  objectives  guiding  the 
approvals  process.  Relying  on  the  Sponsor's  objectives  has  reduced  the  evaluation  of  alternatives  to  a 
tautological  exercise  with  a  predictable  but  meaningless  outcome.  The  evaluation  of  alternatives  (pages 
1 15-127)  consists  of  comparing  all  the  alternatives  to  a  single  objective  of  the  Sponsor:  to  develop  a 
"standard-size  Home  Depot  improvement  store."  Setting  aside  the  problem  that  the  DEIR  does  not  define 
a  "standard-sized"  store,  it  is  clear  that  Alternatives  A-D  could  have  been  rejected  on  that  basis  the 
moment  they  were  proposed,  without  any  further  analysis,  based  simply  on  their  size.  The  substitution  of 
the  Sponsor's  objectives  for  the  City's  -  in  particular  the  objective  for  a  "standard-sized"  Home  Depot  - 
makes  a  mockery  of  the  evaluation  of  alternatives. 

Any  finding  of  overriding  considerations  would  similarly  be  invalidate  by  reference  only  to  the  Sponsor's 
objectives.  The  City  must  determine  for  each  of  its  discretionary  approvals  whether  the  Project  achieves 
public  objectives  that  outweigh  the  impacts  of  the  project  on  the  public.  It  is  unacceptable  to  approve  a 
project  with  insoluble  environmental  problems  that  the  public  must  bear  simply  because  that  project  best 
satisfies  the  goals  of  the  applicant. 


5  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Planning  Department,  Transportation  Impact  Analysis  Guidelines  for  Environmental 
Review,  October  2002,  page  4 

6  There  is  no  record  in  the  file  of  any  communication  with  the  consultant  asking  for  data  on  the  specific  Home  Depot  stores  that 
were  used  as  the  bases  for  the  traffic  analysis. 

7 §15124 


E-ll 


3 

In  his  1 1/20/02  memo,8  the  EIR  consultant  Stu  During  specifically  points  out  to  Tammy  Chan  of  the 
I  ^      Planning  Department  that  the  objectives  stated  in  the  DEIR  are  those  of  the  Project  Sponsor,  not  the 
City's.  In  the  memo  he  gives  his  interpretation  of  CEQA  that  "the  objectives  are  really  the  project 
Sponsors,  and  by  definition  will  usually  be  very  biased  and  subjective."  The  mere  fact  that  the  EIR 
consultant  (During)  felt  it  necessary  to  explain  his  interpretation  to  the  City  and  defend  the  bias  of  the 
objectives  suggests  that  it  is  an  anomalous  reading  of  the  statute. 

III.  PAGE  BY  PAGE  COMMENTS 


Page  1 ;  Pages  25-6:  Description  of  previous  use  is  inadequate. 

The  description  of  the  previous  uses  (Goodman  Lumber  and  Whole  Earth  Access)  does  not 
g  include  information  about  the  amount  of  parking  provided  although  it  does  give  dimension  of  the 

buildings.  Since  these  previous  uses  provide  the  basis  for  one  of  the  alternatives,  the  amount  of 
parking  (as  a  proxy  for  traffic  generated)  should  be  included  in  this  description  and/or  in  the 
description  of  the  alternative. 


Page  2,  Pages  25-6:  Description  of  proposed  buildings  is  incomplete. 

The  Project  is  described  as  a  "153,089-square-foot  (sq.-ft.)  home  improvement  center  and  a 
separate  parking  garage  for  about  550  spaces."  The  only  information  about  the  parking  structure  is 
its  capacity  and  number  of  stories;  there  is  no  information  about  its  dimensions.  What  is  the  total 
i  f\  square  footage  for  all  structures  in  the  Project?  Provide  information  about  the  dimensions 

h  iJ"  (footprint,  exact  or  maximum  height,  square  footage)  of  the  garage  and  its  relationship  to  the 

other  buildings  are  provided  in  the  DEIR.  The  confusion  is  compounded  by  the  description  of  the 
parking  garage  as  both  separate  and  attached.  The  EIR  must  quantify  the  dimensions  (schematic 
drawings  are  insufficient)  to  enable  the  public  to  determine  if  the  Project  complies  with  height  and 
bulk  zoning  standards. 


Page  2:  Information  on  the  height  of  the  building(s)  is  too  vague. 

The  statement  that  "The  buildings  would  be  approximately  40  feet  in  height"  does  not  provide 
enough  information  to  determine  whether  the  bulk  restrictions  in  the  J  Bulk  District  would  be 
j  J  since  the  length  exceeds  250  feet,  or  the  diagonal  dimension  exceeds  300  feet.  The  lack  of 

information  on  relationship  of  the  "attached"  parking  structure  (3  levels  of  parking  but  height 
unspecified)  to  the  other  buildings  makes  questions  about  zoning  compliance  more  compelling. 


17 


Page  3:  The  description  of  uses  in  the  surrounding  area  is  incomplete. 

The  description  of  nearby  buildings  omits  mention  of  residential  buildings  and  a  child  care  center. 


18 


Page  4:  The  DEIR  erroneously  states  that  the  Project  will  not  change  the  area. 

The  statement  that  "The  proposed  project,  however,  would  not  essentially  change  the  existing 
retail/light  industrial  character  or  physical  arrangement  of  the  area"  is  incorrect.  Improvements 
that  have  been  incorporated  into  the  Project  will  change  the  physical  configuration  of  Bayshore 
Boulevard  by  changing  the  dimensions  of  the  Center  divide.  It  is  also  likely  that  this  project  will 
open  the  door  to  other  "big  box"  retail  establishments  that  do  not  now  exist  in  the  area,  a  factor 
indirectly  acknowledged  in  the  DEIR's  brief  discussion  of  inducements  to  commercial  growth  in 
the  area  on  page  103.. 


Page  6:  There  is  no  verifiable  source  of  information  for  the  following  statement: 


Memorandum  from  Stu  During  or  During  Associates  to  Tammy  Chan,  Planning  Department,  November  20,  2002 


E-12 


4 

"Based  on  information  from  a  similar  Home  Depot  store,  it  was  estimated  that  the 
proposed  project  would  generate  30  daily  delivery  trips  per  day  (approximately  15  semi 
tractor-trailers  and  15  small  trucks/vans)." 
Where  is  this  store  that  the  information  is  based  on?  How  was  the  data  collected?  Over  what 
period  of  time?  By  whom?  What  methodology  was  used  to  convert  the  data  into  projections  for 
this  Project?  How  does  this  information  compare  to  information  supplied  in  Home  Depot  permit 
applications  to  other  cities  throughout  the  country  ?  We  need  to  be  able  to  review  the  data  before 
we  can  comment  on  its  accuracy  and/or  suitability  as  a  basis  for  projection  for  the  Project. 


Page  11:  Numbers  do  not  add  up. 

The  EIR  estimates  the  daily  population  would  increase  by  2,500  to  3,300  people  per  day, 
comprised  of  75-100  employees  and  "as  many  as  2,500  to  3,000  shoppers  per  day."  The  maximum 
total  of  shoppers  and  employees  is  3,100.  At  the  7/10/03  public  hearing,  one  speaker  (Angelo 
King)  stated  that  the  Sponsor  is  now  acknowledging  that  this  number  is  an  error.  What  is  the 
correct  number  and  how  was  it  calculated?  What  is  the  data  that  is  the  basis  for  these  projections? 
What  assumptions  were  used  in  making  this  projection?  We  need  to  be  able  to  review  the 
underlying  data  before  we  can  comment  on  the  accuracy  and/or  suitability  of  a  corrected 
employment  projection.  The  projection  of  customers  should  also  be  reviewed  since  it  appears  to 
conflict  with  traffic  projections  of  about  1000  trips  just  in  the  peak  hour.  We  need  to  review  the 
data  and  methodology  for  this  projection  as  well. 


Page  11:  There  is  no  verifiable  source  of  information  for  the  following  statement: 

"It  is  anticipated  that  most  of  the  new  employees  would  already  reside  in  San  Francisco, 
while  some  employees  from  outside  the  City  may  seek  housing  within  the  City 
boundaries." 

What  is  the  basis  for  expecting  most  new  employees  to  be  San  Francisco  residents,  especially 
given  the  high  cost  of  housing  in  San  Francisco  and  the  very  low  wages  paid  by  Home  Depot  to 
most  employees?  What  is  the  level  of  housing  costs  that  entry-level  full-time  Home  Depot 
employees  can  afford  at  30%  of  their  income?  How  does  this  compare  to  the  median  costs  of 
housing  in  San  Francisco  for  a  family  of  four?  What  is  the  vacancy  rate  for  housing  that  the 
average  Home  Depot  employee  could  afford?  How  far  will  workers  have  to  travel  to  find  housing 
they  can  afford? 

And  how  does  the  assumption  that  so  many  employees  will  live  in  San  Francisco  cause  air 
pollution  impacts  to  be  understated? 


Page  1 1:  No  factual  basis  is  provided  for  the  conclusion  that  induced  commercial  growth  in  the  area  is 

part  of  planned  growth. 

There  is  no  approved  plan  to  increase  commercial  uses  in  the  area;  nor  has  there  has  been 
environmental  review  of  any  such  plan  (it  cannot  be  assumed  that  the  induced  growth  has 
undergone  environmental  review).  The  project  site  is  located  in  an  Industrial  Protection  Zone 
Special  Use  District  that  prioritizes  manufacturing,  warehousing,  and  repair  services,  not  retail 
land  uses. 


Pages  13  -  14:  The  mitigations  of  hazard  impacts  are  inadequate. 

The  mitigations  calling  for  the  preparation  of  a  revised  site  mitigation  plan  and  a  revised  health 
and  safety  plan  are  improperly  deferred  to  the  future  because  they  do  not  specify  the  performance 
standards  that  the  plans  must  achieve. 


E-13 


5 

The  mitigation  specified  during  excavation  of  contaminated  soil,  that  "the  construction  contractor 
shall  be  alert"  for  the  presence  of  heavy  metals  (lead  and  chromium)  during  excavation  and  other 
construction  activities  on  the  site  is  ineffective  since  ordinarily  these  substances  are  not  discernible 
visually  or  by  smell.  The  only  way  to  determine  the  presence  of  these  contaminants  is  by 
systematic  sampling. 

The  mitigation  requires  the  construction  contractor  to  "use  clean  fill  or  other  suitable  materials  to 
bring  portions  of  the  project  site,  where  contaminated  soils  have  been  excavated  and  removed,  up 
to  construction  grade."  What  are  the  other  suitable  materials  that  would  be  allowed?  Would  this 
mitigation  allow  the  practice  of  partially  refilling  excavations  with  contaminated  backfill  and 
covering  the  contaminated  soil  with  clean  soil?  This  practice  should  not  be  allowed. 


Page  14:  One  of  the  hazard  mitigation  potentially  requires  the  Project  Sponsor  to  record  a  deed  notice 

even  though  Home  Depot  is  not  the  property  owner. 

It  is  not  clear  what  protection  would  be  offered  by  recording  a  notice  on  the  deed  warning  about 
contamination  since  a  notice  does  not  represent  a  proprietary  interest  in  the  property  that  can 
enforce  any  limitations  on  use.  It  is  also  unclear  whether  the  Project  Sponsor  even  would  have  the 
authority  to  implement  this  mitigation  since  Home  Depot  will  be  leasing  the  site.  This  site  appears 
to  qualify  as  a  state  Superfund  site  that  should  be  cleaned  up  under  the  supervision  of  the 
California  Department  of  Toxic  Substances  Control. 


Page  15:  The  mitigation  for  impacts  to  cultural  resources  recommended  by  the  cultural  resource 
consultant  has  been  omitted  from  the  DEIR  which  provides  a  less  protective  mitigation. 

The  study  on  cultural  resources  submitted  to  the  EIR  consultant  (Stan  During)  by  the  cultural 
resources  consultant  (Allen  Pastron)  recommends  as  a  mitigation  "a  system  program  of  pre- 
construction  archaelogical  testing  and  evaluation."9  However,  the  DEIR  proposes  as  mitigation 
that  "The  project  Sponsor  shall  distribute  the  Planning  Department  archeological  resource 
'ALERT'  sheet  to  the  project  prime  contractor. . ."  instructing  those  excavating  the  site  to  be  on  the 
lookout  for  artifacts.  No  explanation  is  offered  in  the  DEIR  for  the  rejection  of  the  recommended 
mitigation  of  sampling.  The  EIR  should  require  the  Pastron  mitigation. 


Page  16:  The  DEIR  does  not  evaluate  potential  environmental  impacts  of  the  proposed  transportation 

"improvements"  that  have  been  incorporated  into  the  Project. 

The  DEIR  proposes  improvements  to  Bayshore  Blvd  that  would  reduce  the  center  separation  and 
shorten  the  bus  pull-out.  Reducing  the  center  separation  could  increase  risk  of  vehicle  collisions. 
The  reduced  bus  pull-out  would  increase  hazards  for  transit  riders  (especially  the  disabled)  since  it 
would  encourage  bus  drivers  to  load  and  unload  passengers  from  a  traffic  lane,  rather  than  at  the 
curb.  Furthermore,  it  appears  that  the  shortening  of  the  bus  stop  is  inconsistent  with  policies  11.1 
and  14.3  in  the  "Transportation  Element"  of  the  San  Francisco  General  Plan  that  prioritize 
transit.10 


Page  17:  The  sources  of  information  on  the  alternatives  are  not  documented  and  information  gaps  do  not 
fully  allow  for  a  thorough  comparison. . 


9  Pastron,  Allen,  Archeo-Tec  Inc.  "Archival  Cultural  Resources  Evaluation  of  the  Proposed  491  Bayshore  Boulevard/196 
Loomis  Avenue,  Home  Depot,  Project,  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  California",  May  2002,  page  37. 

10  Transportation  Element  Policy  11.1:  Maintain  and  improve  the  Transit  Preferential  Streets  program  to  make  transit  more 
attractive  and  viable  as  a  primary  means  of  travel.  -  The  Transit  Preferential  Streets  program  includes  measures  to  improve 
transit  vehicle  speeds  and  to  minimize  the  restraints  of  traffic  on  transit  operations. 

Transportation  Element  Policy  14.3:  Improve  transit  operation  by  implementing  strategies  that  facilitate  and  prioritize  transit 
vehicle  movement  and  loading. 


E-14 


6 

The  table  below  shows  information  provided  by  the  EIR,  including  the  Transportation  Study.  No 
sources  are  cited  for  the  estimates  of  trip  generation  or  people  brought  to  the  site.  In  addition,  there 
are  gaps  in  information  about  Alternative  B  (vehicle  trips,  parking  spaces,  employees  and 
shoppers),  Alternative  C  (employees  and  shoppers),  and  Alternative  E  (vehicle  trips).  Since  the 
EIR  concludes  that  each  of  these  has  fewer  unmitigable  impacts,  it  would  appear  prudent  for  the 
analysis  to  provide  full  information  on  each  so  that  assumptions  can  be  reviewed.. 


alternative 

floor  area 

height 

vehicle  trips 
weekday  weekend 
daily  daily 

parking  spaces 

permanent  shoppers 
employees  per  day 

approx  40'; 

Project 

stories  store; 

Not  provided  Not  provided 

550 

75-100 

2500-3000 

153,089 

3-level  parking 

A:  No  Project 

0 

0 

0  0 

0 

0 

0 

B:  Reuse 

Existing 

107,400 

23  feet 

Not  provided  Not  provided 

1  -story-uncovered 

C; 

60,000 

parking  lot 

4059  4202 

350 

D: 

107,400 

2  level  parking 

7266  7521 

385 

50-75 

2400-2700 

E 

140,000 

3-level  parking 

Not  provided  Not  provided 

500 

70-95 

2300-2600 

The  most  troubling  data  gap  is  the  missing  information  about  vehicle  trips  per  day  for  the  Project 
and  for  Alternative  E.  The  only  alternatives  with  information  about  daily  vehicle  trips  are  C  and  D 
(with  no  indication  of  the  source  of  these  numbers),  and  for  both  the  peak  hour  rate  represents 
about  8%  and  12%  of  the  daily  rates  for  weekdays  and  weekends  respectively.  These  ratios  appear 
to  be  high,  given  the  long  hours  that  Home  Depot  is  open  for  business  (with  multiple  shifts)  and 
the  likelihood  that  a  significant  proportion  of  its  customers  are  contractors  who  would  be  most 
likely  to  arrive  during  business  hours,  especially  in  the  morning.  The  EIR  needs  to  make  the  data 
underlying  these  estimates  available  to  the  public  to  review  with  time  to  comment. 

Another  problem  suggested  by  the  data  is  an  apparent  undercounting  of  employees,  achieved 
apparently  by  limiting  the  total  to  permanent  employees.  News  releases  about  Home  Depot  stores 
elsewhere  in  the  nation  suggest  that  the  company  typically  employs  many  more  workers  per 
square  foot  than  the  75-100  shown  for  the  San  Francisco  Project.  For  example,  the  84,000  square 
foot  new  store  (with  a  19,000  square  foot  garden  center)  planned  for  Sault  Ste.  Marie  in  Manitoba 
plans  on  hiring  164  full-time  equivalent  workers.11  The  DEIR  must  explain  how  the  number  is 
calculated  of  employed  persons  -  both  full  time  and  part  time  -  on  the  site  on  an  average  daily 
basis. 


The  problem  is  compounded  by  the  fact  that  many  of  the  workers  will  be  part-time,  resulting  in  a 
greater  number  of  trips  to  and  from  the  site  per  day.  In  a  new  store  in  Ithaca  New  York,  40%  of 
the  jobs  will  be  part-time.    The  other  complicating  factor  is  that  the  store  operates  seven  days  a 
week  for  more  than  one  8-hour  shift  (this  obviously  needs  to  be  factored  into  the  air  quality 
analysis). 

The  EIR  must  demonstrate  that  the  EIR  uses  a  trip  generation  rate  that  accounts  for  all  employees 
-  permanent,  temporary,  probationary,  full-time,  part-time,  and  everyone  else  who  travels  to  and 
from  the  site. 


11  The  Sault  Star,  "Home  Depot  hopes  to  nail  down  deal  in  Sault,"  April  25,  2003 

12  Itacajournal.com,  April  25,  2003 


47 


E-15 


7 


Page  18:  The  DEIR  incorrectly  claims  that  it  has  applied  a  trip  generation  rate  to  Alternative  B  that  is 

consistent  with  Planning  Department  Guidelines.13. 

To  justify  the  estimated  vehicle  trips  for  Alternative  B,  the  footnote  states  it  is  "Based  on  an 
estimate  of  13.5  person  trips  per  1,000  sq  ft  of  retail  space  for  Weekday  PM  peak  hour,  and  19.3 
person  trips  per  1,000  sq.  ft.  of  retail  space  for  Saturday  midday  per  the  San  Francisco  Planning 
Department,  Interim  Transportation  Impacts  Analysis  Guidelines  for  Environmental  Review, 
January,  2000." 

However,  the  DEIR  converts  this  person-trip  estimate  to  peak-hour  vehicle-trips  with  the 
assumption  that  there  will  be  2.6  people  in  each  vehicle  -  a  number  that  seems  too  high  for  both 
the  weekday  and  weekend  peak. 

/  ■ 

 Alternative  B  

person  trip  assumed 

rate  per  1000  persons 

-per  person  vehicle  per 

Guidelines      trips    trips  vehicle 
weekday  13.5    1450         552  2.63 

weekend  19.3*   2073         789  2.63 

*assumes  weekend  peak-hour  traffic  is  43%  greater  factor  for  weekend  increase 

The  person-  trip  rate  calculated  for  Alternative  B  that  is  misrepresented  as  complying  with 
Planning  Department  Guidelines,  relies  on  an  overly  high  assumption  of  persons  per  auto, 
considering  that  a  high  proportion  of  the  trips,  especially  during  the  week,  will  be  made  by  a 
single  person  -  often  professional  contractor.  The  DEIR  then  applies  a  slightly  higher  trip 
generation  rate  to  the  Project  and  the  other  alternatives,  creating  the  false  impression  that  a  trip 
generation  rate  used  for  the  Project  and  those  alternatives  exceeds  the  Guidelines.  However,  if  a 
reasonable,  but  still  high  ratio  of  persons  per  vehicle  is  applied  (e.g.,  1.75  on  weekdays,  2.00  on 
weekends),  the  trip  rates  used  in  the  DEIR  for  the  Project  and  Alternatives  C,D,  and  E  are  actually 
lower  than  those  in  the  Guidelines. 


Project 


assumed 

adjusted  person 

person  trip  rate  for 

vehicle  trip 

persons 

trip  rate 

General  Retail 

rate 

per  vehicle 

per  1000 

in  Guidelines 

weekday 

5.54 

1.75 

9.70 

13.5 

weekend 

8.28 

2.00 

16.56 

19.3 

Page  20:  It  is  not  clear  why  2,775  (maximum)  shoppers  and  employees  in  Alternative  D  would  generate 
7,339  trips  per  day. 

The  DEIR  estimates  that  there  would  be  50-75  employees  and  2,400  -  2,700  shoppers  per  day  -  a 
maximum  average  of  2,775  people  on  site;  the  weighted  average  of  vehicle  trips  per  day  is  7,339, 
based  on  7,226  on  weekdays  and  7,521  on  weekends.  An  explanation  is  needed  of  the  reason  why 
each  person  would  make  2.6  times  per  day  on  average. 


Page  25:  The  objectives  for  the  Project  should  be  the  City's,  not  the  Sponsor's 
Please  see  our  Comment  IIC,  page  2. 


13  DEIR,  footnote  2  page  18 


E-16 


8 

Page  25:  The  Project  Sponsor's  objective  of  a  "standard-sized  Home  Depot  home  improvement  store  is 
never  defined. 

Although  the  DEIR  states  that  the  Project  Sponsor  would  like  to  develop  a  garden  center  of 
approximately  8,500  square  feet,  and  a  greenhouse  of  approximately  10,000  square  feet,  no  size  is 
specified  for  a  standard-sized  store,  or  whether  the  full  service  lumber  department  is  part  of  the 
store  or  an  additional  outdoor  area. 

A  review  of  recently  approved  Home  Depot  stores  throughout  the  country  shows  that  the  company 
is  prepared  to  build  stores  in  a  variety  of  sizes  -  virtually  all  of  them  smaller  than  the  San 
Francisco  proposal(See  attachment  2).  In  a  recent  sample  of  newspaper  articles  about  Home 
Deport  openings  or  permit  approvals,  we  found  the  size  of  the  stores  ranged  from  60,000  to 
137,000  square  feet,  and  garden  centers  ranged  from  1,900  to  3,300  square  feet.  The  proposed 
Project,  at  153,089  square  feet  with  garden  center  and  greenhouse  of  18,434  square  feet  is  clearly 
a  larger  project  than  those  we  have  found  in  an  Internet  Search. 

According  to  Home  Depot's  2002  Annual  Report,  "The  Home  Depot,  Inc.  and  subsidiaries  (the 
"Company")  operate  Home  Depot  stores,  which  are  full-service,  warehouse-style  stores  averaging 
approximately  108,000  square  feet  in  size."14 

The  Sponsor's  implied  claim  that  a  store  of  153,089  square  feet  is  the  standard  size,  when  it  is 
clearly  one  of  the  largest,  if  not  the  largest  that  the  company  has  recently  built,  suggests  that 
Alternative  E  is  the  actual  project  seeking  approval  and  is  not  a  compromise  that  would  be 
reluctantly  agreed  to. 


Page  35:  Land  use  impacts  are  potentially  significant  and  must  be  analyzed. 

The  conclusion  that  land  use  impacts  are  less  than  significant,  as  claimed  by  the  Initial  Study,  is 
not  justified.  The  compatibility  of  the  Project  with  the  adjacent  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood, 
cannot  be  ensured  because  Bernal  Heights  is  not  covered  by  General  Plan  Land  Use  policies.  As  a 
result,  the  General  Plan  does  not  ensure  the  compatibility  of  Bernal  Heights  land  uses  with  those 
of  adjoining  areas,  and  Bernal  Heights  therefore  lacks  protection  of  its  land  uses  from  the 
environmental  impacts,  such  as  traffic,  noise,  air  quality,  and  blocked  views  from  new  uses  in 
adjoining  areas. 

By  default,  the  principle  land  use  protection  available  to  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood  is 
afforded  by  the  priority  policies  instituted  by  Proposition  M.  The  Project  would  cause  land  use 
impacts  because  it  would  be  inconsistent  with  the  following  priority  policies  in  the  Planning  Code: 

•  That  existing  neighborhood-serving  retail  uses  be  preserved  and  enhanced  and  future 
opportunities  for  resident  employment  in  and  ownership  of  such  businesses 
enhanced;15 

•  That  a  diverse  economic  base  be  maintained  by  protecting  our  industrial  and  service 
sectors  from  displacement  due  to  commercial  office  development,  and  that  future 
opportunities  for  resident  employment  and  ownership  in  these  sectors  be  enhanced.16 


The  Project  in  itself,  and  in  conjunction  with  growth  it  will  induce,  would  create  a  significant  land 
use  impact  by  changing  the  character  of  land  use  along  Bayshore  Boulevard,  replacing  smaller 

14  The  Home  Depot,  Inc.  2002  Annual  Report ,  page  31 

15  San  Francisco  Planning  Code  §101.1  (b)  (1) 

16  San  Francisco  Planning  Code  §101 .1  (b)  (5) 


E-17 


9 

retail  establishments  with  large  regional-serving  stores.  Approval  of  the  Project  will  endanger 
neighborhood-serving  retail  and  diminish  opportunities  for  resident  ownership  of  such  businesses 
in  both  Bernal  Heights  and  in  Bay  view-Hunters  Point.  In  many  cities  the  impact  of  big  box 
development  has  been  to  cause  neighborhood  serving  retail  establishment  to  fail.  Impairing  the 
viability  of  neighborhood  retail  would  cause  physical  deterioration,  both  in  Bernal  Heights  and  in 
Bayview-Hunters  Point,  as  well  as  a  change  is  traffic  patterns  as  residents  would  have  to  travel 
further,  and  by  car  rather  than  on  foot,  to  meet  day-to-day  needs  for  goods  and  services. 


Another  potential  land  use  impact  is  whether,  based  on  the  report  on  cultural  resources,  the  site 
must  be  used  for  Public  Trust  purposes.17 


Page  41:  The  conclusion  in  the  Land  Use  Analysis  that  the  buildings  will  be  less  than  40  feet  is  different 
from  the  Project  Description  that  equivocates,  stating  only  that  the  buildings  will  be  approximately  40 
feet. 

See  comments  about  page  2  of  the  DEIR. 


Page  57:  The  DEIR  must  assess  daily  traffic  conditions  as  well  as  weekday  and  weekend  peak  hour 
conditions 

Increased  daily  traffic  represents  a  potentially  significant  impact  of  the  Project  for  all  vehicles  that 
could  be  greater  than  peak  hour  impacts  alone.  Congestion  within  Bernal  Heights  is  spread  across 
most  of  the  day.  About  30%  of  Home  Depot  customers  were  estimated  to  be  "professional 
contractors"  by  a  Home  Depot  official  during  a  zoning  hearing  for  a  Home  Depot  in  Warrenton 
Virginia.    Contractors  would  not  generally  make  trips  to  Home  Depot  in  the  evening. 

It  also  appears  that  truck  traffic  generated  by  the  Project  could  occur  at  night,  according  the  Home 
Deport  Annual  Report  for  2002  that  references  ". .  .our  new  in-store  Service  Performance 
Improvement  ("SPI")  initiative,  in  which  our  stores  handle  and  receive  inventory  at  night..." 
 Traffic  and  nighttime  noise  impacts  over  the  entire  day  must  be  analyzed. 


Page  57:  Data  from  the  "four  similar  Home  Depot  stores  in  California"  has  not  been  available  for  review. 
Members  of  the  public  have  not  been  able  to  review  the  driveway  count  data  or  methodology 
underlying  calculation  of  the  Project's  trip  generation  rate.  There  is  no  indication  how  the  four 
sample  sites  were  selected  except  that  they  are  either  free-standing  or  with  separate  entrances/exits 
for  parking,  and  are  located  in  urbanized  areas.  Among  1500  Home  Depot  stores,  163  of  which  are 
in  California.19  there  must  be  many  (as  well  as  other  large  retail  outlets)  fitting  those  criteria.  It  is 
very  possible  that  selecting  a  different  set  of  four  stores,  also  meeting  the  criteria,  would  produce  a 
different  result.  No  explanation  has  been  provided  why  the  sample  was  limited  to  four  stores. 
Limiting  the  sample  to  four  stores  when  there  is  a  32%  variation  from  the  lowest  to  the  highest  trip 
generation  rates  (from  5.19  to  6.8420)  has  produced  an  average  rate  that  is  statistically 
meaningless. 

In  any  event,  the  City  has  an  obligation  to  conduct  independent  field  counts,  if  only  to  verify 
Home  Depot  data. 


17  Pastron,  Allen,  "Archival  Cultural  Resources  Evaluation  of  the  Proposed  491  Bayshore  Boulevard/196  Loomis  Avenue, 
Home  Depot,  Project,  May  2002,  pages  13,  16,  25,  27-37. 

18  The  Fauquier  Citizen  (Fauquier  County,  Virginia)  . 

19  San  Mateo  County  Times  5/17/03  (on-line  version) 

20  DEIR,  Page  B-5 


E-18 


10 

For  similar  reasons,  the  adjustment  factor  used  to  calculate  peak  weekend  midday  trips  (a  50% 
increase  over  the  weekday  peak  hour)  should  be  based  on  a  larger  sample  and  verified  rather  than 
derived  from  an  8-year  old  unverified  count  conducted  at  a  single  store  (Colma). 


Page  59:  The  DEIR  does  not  substantiate  its  claim  that  the  trip  generation  rate  used  is  higher  than  the  ITE 
rate  would  be. 

The  DEIR  makes  the  claim  that  it  is  using  a  higher  rate  than  the  ITE  rate  for  a  "similar  land  use"  is 
but  does  not  tell  us  what  that  "similar"  land  use  is  and  what  the  ITE  rate  is.  This  is  another 
example  of  a  conclusion  that  has  not  been  documented. 

Page  59:  The  DEIR  bases  its  trip  distribution/traffic  assignment  on  a  study  that  is  not  available  to  the 
public. 

The  DEIR  estimates  that  24%  of  the  Project's  customers  will  come  from  San  Mateo  County  based 
on  a  study  commissioned  by  Home  Depot.  We  have  been  denied  the  opportunity  to  review  the 
data.  There  is  no  indication  in  the  DEIR  that  the  City  verified  the  reported  conclusion  of  the  study. 

The  assignment  of  routes  appears  to  be  based  on  speculation:  "...traffic  was  assigned  based  on  the 
most  convenient  routes."  What  is  the  basis  for  the  determination  that  13%  of  vehicles  would 
choose  to  approach  the  Project  via  Cortland  Avenue  as  opposed  to  12%?  Or  20%? 


Page  60:  Parking  demand  is  based  on  data  that  has  not  been  available  for  review  by  the  public. 

The  demand  for  parking  was  based  on  an  unavailable  Home  Depot  study  and  checked  by  a  count 
at  a  nearby  Home  Depot.  Who  conducted  the  count?  Why  has  that  data  been  unavailable  for 

 review? 

Page  60:  The  Project  Sponsor's  estimate  of  demand  for  loading  docks  has  not  been  documented  or 
verified. 

The  DEIR  appears  to  rely  on  the  Sponsor's  estimate  without  any  supporting  data. 

Page  72:  The  estimate  of  loading  impacts  is  based  on  data  that  is  not  available  for  review. 

"Based  on  information  from  a  similar  Home  Depot  store,  it  was  estimated  that  the  proposed 
project  would  generate  30  daily  delivery  trips  per  day..."  Which  store?  In  what  way  similar?  How 

 typical?  How  and  when  was  the  data  collected?  By  whom? 


Pages  73  and  75:  The  conclusion  that  delivery  and  construction  vehicles  will  use  US  101  or  1-280  is  not 

supported  with  evidence  or  analysis. 

The  assumption  that  delivery  and  construction  vehicles  will  approach  the  Project  from  the  two 
closest  freeway  exits  does  not  take  into  account  the  terrible  congestion  during  much  of  the  day  in 

 both  directions  on  these  freeway. 

Pages  75  and  76:  Assumptions  about  cumulative  conditions  underestimate  future  traffic  congestion  on 
Bay  shore  Boulevard. 

The  discussion  of  cumulative  conditions  assumes  that  the  standard  background  traffic  growth  rate 
that  is  applied  generally  in  the  analysis  of  San  Francisco  projects  will  apply  in  a  situation  where 
major  changes  to  traffic  patterns  are  planned..  This  general  assumption  is  inapplicable  to  this 
Project  because  truck  traffic  that  can  no  longer  use  Third  Street  will  be  rerouted  to  Bayshore 
Boulevard.  It  further  appears  that  this  highly  optimistic  projection  also  assumes  that  there  will  be 
bridge  over  Yosemite  Slough  -  a  project  that  is  unlikely  given  its  severe  environmental  impacts 
and  high  cost.  These  assumptions  require  the  EIR  to  redo  the  analysis  of  cumulative  traffic 
impacts  with  realistic  assumptions. 


E-19 


103 


49 


121 

128 
138 

147 


 •  ii 

Pages  75-81:  The  analysis  understates  cumulative  traffic  impacts.. 

The  DEIR  does  not  consider  daily  traffic  volumes  Limiting  the  analysis  to  peak  hour  traffic 
ignores  impacts  caused  by  the  full  daily  load  both  on  local  streets  and  regional  roadways.  The 
analysis  does  not  account  in  particular  for  congestion  on  US  101  that  has  in  effect  extended  the 
peak  to  most  of  the  day,  with  a  corresponding  increase  in  aggregate  delay. 


In  addition,  the  Transportation  Study  understates  traffic  volumes  on  US  101  as  220,000  vehicles 
per  day  in  2000.21  The  correct  figures  for  2000,  2001,  and  2002  are  in  the  range  of  250,000  - 
270,0000. 


\  ^    Page  82:  The  air  quality  analysis  needs  to  evaluate  PM^s  as  well  as  PM 


10  • 


Pages  86  and  87:  The  Criteria  of  Significance  do  not  take  sensitive  receptors  into  account. 

Although  the  DEIR  mentions  (page  82)  that  a  child  care  center  is  about  100  yards  from  the  Project 
site,  the  Criteria  of  Significance  do  not  recognize  the  sensitive  population.  The  vulnerability  of 
young  children,  particularly  to  diesel  exhaust  needs  to  be  factored  into  the  analysis  of  air  quality 
impacts. 


Page  96:  The  standard  for  lead  hazard  is  750  ppm,  not  1000  ppm 


22 


Page  102:  The  DEIR  recommends  "as  systematic  program  of  pre-construction  archaelogical  testing"  but 
does  not  include  it  as  the  recommended  mitigation- 


Pages  1 15  -  127:  The  DEIR  does  not  evaluate  the  alternatives  against  the  City's  objectives  for  approval. 
See  comments  IIC  on  page  2  of  these  comments. 


1  page  2-1,  9/17/02  Transportation  Study 

2  USEPA  2002Preliminary  Remediation  Goals 


E-20 


12 


Attachment  1  E-MAIL  CORRESPONDENCE  BETWEEN  RON  MORGAN  AND  TAMMY 
CHAN 

From:  Ron  Morgan  [rmorgan@bhnc.org] 
Sent:  Friday,  June  27,  2003  4:40  PM 
To:  Tammy  Chan 

Subject:  Home  Depot  Questions  and  Document  Requests 


Hi  Tammy, 


As  we  get  deeper  into  the  Home  Depot  Draft  EIR  a  number  of  questions  have  arisen  that  require 
further  documentation  so  we  may  better  understand  it's  findings.  For  now  111  just  list  the  materials, 
let  me  know  their  availability: 

1.  Parking  lot  counts  used  to  calculate  trip  generation  rates,  including  in-out  split  for  parking 
lot  queuing  analysis.  (Appendix  C,  9/02  Transportation  Study) 

2.  Market  share  data  used  to  generate  trip  distribution  estimates.  (Appendix  C,  9/02 
Transportation  Study) 

3.  Home  Depot  Parking  Study  (Barton- Aschman  Associates,  Parking  Demand  Study,  1/92 
[referenced  in  DEIR  p.  60]) 

4.  Monthly  variation  in  sales  (Appendix  C,  9/02  Transportation  Study 

We  would  also  appreciate  the  supporting  data  for  the  following  assertions  in  the  DEIR: 

5.  Number  and  distribution  of  daily  truck  trips  per  day  ("Based  on  information  from  a 
similar  [unspecified]  Home  Depot  store. . .") 

6.  Number  of  construction  workers  at  peak:  30-40  per  day 

7.  The  increase  in  daily  population  on  site  by  2500  -  3300  people  (75-100  employees,  2,500 
-  3,000  shoppers) 


Also,  could  you  outline  the  governing  standards  or  requirements  for  each  approval  that  the  Project 
needs  in  order  to  go  forward? 

1.  Public  Works  -  curb  cuts  (What  standards  govern/guide  approvals?) 

2.  Building  Inspection  -  demolition  and  building  permits  (Are  these  considered  discretionary 
because  of  Prop  M?) 

3.  Parking  and  Traffic,  Interdepartmental  Staff  Committee  on  Traffic  and  Transportation  - 
approval  of  new  signals,  crosswalks,  left-turn  pockets,  change  to  median  (  What  standards 
govern/guide  approvals?  Are  these  decisions  subject  to  appeal?) 

4.  Board  of  Supervisors  -  left  turn  pocket,  changes  to  median  (What  standards,  and  findings 
are  required?) 


E-21 


13 

5.        Planning  Commission  -  What  specific  approvals  will  they  be  asked  to  give,  what  are  the 
required         findings,  and  which  can  be  appealed?  (Certification  of  EIR?  Use  Permit? 
Consistency  with  Prop  M      Priority  Policies?) 


We  also  have  a  number  of  questions  that  are  difficult  to  answer  without  further  data: 


1.  What  is  the  basis  for  the  Project  Sponsor's  statement  that  most  employees  would  already 
reside  in  San  Francisco? 


2.        Project  objectives  include  construction  of  a  "standard  size  Home  Depot  home 
improvement  store     but  no  size  is  specified.  How  big  is  the  "standard  size"?  What  does  a 
standard  size  store      include?  What  proportion  of  Home  Depot  stores  do  not  meet  the  standard? 
How  many  stores  have         received  permits  in  the  last  year  that  are  smaller  than  the  standard 

size? 


Thanks ! 
Ron  Morgan 

Community  Organizing  Coordinator 
Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 
206-2140  ex  155 

From:  Tammy  Chan  [Tammy.Chan@sfgov.org] 
Sent:  Friday,  June  27,  2003  5:07  PM 
To:  Ron  Morgan 

Subject:  Re:  Home  Depot  Questions  and  Document  Requests 


Hi  Ron- 
Most  of  your  questions  pertain  specifically  to  the  data  and  accuracy  of  the 
DEIR,  therefore,  it  will  be  responded  to  in  the  Comments  and  Responses 
Document  which  will  be  publish  after  the  public  hearing.  I  will  print  out 
your  email  for  the  record  as  comments  to  the  DEIR.  I'm  sure  you  have  more 
questions  and  comments  regarding  the  draft  EIR  then  what  is  below  so  any 
remaining  concerns  should  be  submitted  to  us  in  writing  by  5:00pm  July 
11th.  Just  be  on  the  safe  side,  any  additional  comments  should  be  mailed, 
faxed,  or  dropped  off  to  my  attention  prior  to  close  of  business  on  July 
11th.  (Our  email  is  not  reliable  and  have  been  known  to  crashes  and  system 
failures.) 

You  had  a  couple  of  questions  regarding  approval  actions,  which  I  can 
address  now. 

As  you  know,  we  are  governed  by  the  planning  code  and  CEQA  guideline. 
However,  the  standards  and  regulations  for  each  of  the  divisions  are  better 
answered  by  them.  You  might  also  want  to  check  out  their  website  on  the 
sfgov.org  network. 

1.  Public  Work's  curb  cut  division-  558-6060 


E-22 


14 

2.  Building  Inspection-  558-6096 

3.  Parking  and  Traffic-  554-9811 

4.  Board  of  Supervisors-  (I'm  not  sure  how  they  govern  these  issues  or  who 
you'd  need  to  call,  however,  I  believe  they  have  a  transportation  committee 
and  that  might  be  who  will  be  reviewing  this.) 

5.  Planning  approvals-  the  neighborhood  planner  on  this  project  is  Mat 
Snyder  and  his  number  is  575-6891.  He  will  be  the  planner  that  will  present 
findings  to  the  commission  for  their  consideration  and  he  would  be  a  better 
person  to  talk  to  regarding  what  is  needed  for  this  project  and  what  can  be 
appealed.  I  believe  everything  is  appeal-able  to  the  board  of  supervisors, 
including  the  EIR. 

Like  I  stated  perviously,  all  other  questions  from  your  email  will  be  in 
the  file  as  part  of  the  record  for  comments  to  the  Draft  EIR. 

Thanks  for  your  patience  and  input  in  this  matter  and  have  a  good  weekend. 


Tammy  Chan,  Environmental  Planner 

city  and  county  of  san  francisco  planning  department 

mail:  1660  mission  street,  suite  500,  san  francisco,  ca  94103 

location:  30  van  ness  avenue,  suite  4150,  san  francisco,  ca  94102 

t:  415.558.5982 

f:  415.558.5991 

www.sfgov.org/planning 


E-23 


IS 


A  SAMPLING  OF  NEW  HOME  DEPOT  STORES  BY  SIZE 
Results  of  a  web  searches  in  April  -  July 


PLACE 

Brattleboro  VT 
Chicago  111 

Sault  Ste  Marie,  Canada 
Bennington  VT 

Ithaca  NY 

Kuai  HA 
Mishawaka  Ml 

Sonora  CA 
Middletown  CT 


Grand  Haven  mi 

Catskill,  NY 

Polk  County  FL 

Palatka  NC 

Lake  Jackson  TX 
Millcreek  Township  UT 
Kenai  AL 

Pasco  County  FL 
Dublin  CA 
Lakeland  FL 


OTHER  SITE 
SIZE  (SF)  DEVELOPMENT  SOURCE  OF  INFO 

60,000 

80,000   200  park  sp 

+ 19000  garden 
84,000  center 


Bennington  Banner  5/19/2003 
Home  Channel  News  April  1 7 


The  Sault  Star,  Friday,  April  25,  2003  -  09:00 
Bennington  Banner  5/1 9/2003 

Journal 


90,000 

+ 18700  garden 
95,000  center 

24000  garden 
95,000  center 

95,000  WNDU  News  Center  -  7/4/03 

24000  garden 
95,860  center  Union  Democrat-  Sonora  CA 

1 03,000  +  garden  center    Middletown  Press  Staff  4/1 8/2003 

23657  garden 

center;  422-space 
103,316  parking  lot  Grand  haven  tribune  (Ml 

+  27000  garden 
104,000  center  Freeman  staff(NY)  4/1 9/2003 

+  31908  garden 

Polk  on  line  -  Polk  County  Florida,  Web  posted  Wednesday,  April  1 
Palatka  Daily  News  july  2  2003 


104,795  center 
104,795  33000  garden 
center 

31240  garden 
104,884  center 
109,000 
110,000 

134,500 
135,000 
136,703 


The  Facts  -  Brazoria  County  Texas  4/28/2003 
The  Salt  Lake  Tribune  UT 
home  channel  news  -july  7,  2003 

By  JAMES  THORNER,  Times  Staff  Write  r©  St.  Petersburg  Times 
2003 

Dublin  Courier  Herald,  GA  -  Apr  9,  2003 
The  Ledger.com  Lakeland  FL 


Clackamas  OR 


+  35,500-  lumber 
center  and 
26,000-  garden 
139,000  center  The  Oregonian  4/30/2003 


E-24 


Comments  on  the  Home  Depot  EIR  -  Traffic  Issues 


Problems  with  the  Transportation  Study  and  Traffic  Data 


The  City  contracted  for  a  transportation  study  to  be  conducted  by  Wilbur  Smith 
Associates,  published  in  September  2002.  This  transportation  study  is  inadequate  in  many 
areas,  and  needs  to  be  redone. 


1.  Faulty  assumptions  for  distribution  of  visitor  trips  skews  data  on  traffic 

The  transportation  study  makes  assumptions  about  where  (geographically),  the 
traffic  will  come  from  and,  therefore,  whether  it  will  use  freeways  or  surface 
streets.  The  study  claims  that  Home  Depot's  market  research  shows  that  a  full 
24%  of  the  vehicles  would  come  from  the  south  bay  or  peninsula.  (Transportation 
Study  Page  3-4.) 

This  number  is  significantly  overestimated.  While  the  actual  market  research  data 
is  not  provided,  it's  hard  to  imagine  that  many  people  on  the  peninsula  would 
drive  past  the  two  Home  Depots  in  Colma  or  the  Lowe's  in  San  Bruno,  to  fight 
the  traffic  to  drive  all  the  way  up  to  San  Francisco  to  shop  at  Home  Depot  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard.  We  would  like  to  see  this  market  research  data.  Yet  by 
using  these  assumptions,  the  traffic  estimates  are  skewed  towards  freeway 
approaches,  not  surface  approaches  to  the  project.  This  would  lead  to 
understating  the  traffic  impacts  on  surface  routes,  a  primary  concern  of 
neighbors  in  Bernal  Heights.  Indeed,  the  conclusion  that  only  13%  of  the  vehicles 
would  approach  from  Cortland  Avenue  is  low.  And  that  15%  would  come  from 
Loomis  Street  is  very  high.  These  assertions  should  be  further  studied. 


2.  Much  of  the  data  was  supplied  by  Home  Depot. 

The  transportation  study  is  supposed  to  be  an  independent  study  on  the  traffic 
impacts.  Yet  in  evaluating  current  and  future  conditions,  the  transportation  study 
relies  heavily  on  data  provided  by  Home  Depot  itself.  We  request  to  see  the  raw 
data  supplied  by  Home  Depot  and  the  evaluation  the  City  performed  of  this  data. 
This  data  includes: 

a.  Parking  lot  counts  used  to  calculate  trip  generation  rates,  including  in-out 
split  for  parking  lot  queuing  analysis  (Transportation  Study  Appendix  C). 

b.  Market  share  data  used  to  generate  trip  distribution  estimates 
(Transportation  Study  Appendix  C) 

c.  Home  Depot  Parking  Study  (References  in  DEIR  Page  60) 

d.  Monthly  variation  in  sales  (Transportation  Study  Appendix  C) 

e.  Number  and  distribution  of  daily  truck  trips  per  day  ("Based  on 
information  from  a  similar  [unspecified]  Home  Depot  store..."  (DEIR,  p 
72;  Appendix  D,  9/02  Transportation  Study 

f.  Construction  workers  at  peak:  30-40  per  day  (DEIR  p7,  Page  4-19 
Transportation  Study  09/02) 


1 


E-25 


3.  Trip  Generation  Rates  Are  Inconsistent 

The  transportation  study  is  supposed  to  look  at  the  travel  demand  expressed  in  a 
trip  generation  rate,  or  person-trips  per  square  feet  of  gross  space.  The  study  uses 
two  different  methodologies  for  calculating  this  information  -  one  for  weekday 
pm  peak  hours,  and  another  for  weekend  peak  hours.  All  rates  are  expressed  in 
vehicle  trips,  not  the  requested  person-trips.  Why  did  it  use  different 
methodologies  for  these  two  calculations? 

For  the  weekday  pm  peak  hours,  the  study  averages  driveway  counts  performed  at 
four  Home  Depots  in  California  four  years  ago.  The  undemanding  criteria  for  the 
selection  of  these  four  stores  ("either  free-standing  or  with  separate 
entrances/exits  for  their  parking  facilities")  and  location  ("within  urbanized 
areas")  suggests  that  a  much  larger  database  could  have  been  used.  Given  the 
wide  range  of  trip  rates  among  Home  Depot  stores  and  the  widespread  interest  in 
traffic  issues  by  communities  throughout  the  country,  it  would  seem  that 
consistent,  statistically  valid  national  and  California  numbers  must  be  available. 
Why  select  just  these  four  -  Home  Depot  has  163  stores  in  California  alone.  Did 
the  City  have  access  to  this  information?  Are  the  four  really  the  most 
representative  of  this  situation? 

For  the  weekend  peak  hours,  the  transportation  study  used  counts  conducted  at  the 
Colma  store,  in  the  winter  of  1995-1996.  This  data  appears  to  be  older,  and  shows 
lower  counts  than  the  data  collected  in  1999.  Why  was  this  different  methodology 
used?  Why  older  data,  and  why  just  from  one  store?  No  explanation  is  given. 


4.  Trip  Assignment  Data  Misses  Randall  Cut-over  from  San  Jose  Avenue 

In  performing  the  trip  assignment  analysis,  the  traffic  study  anticipates  driving 
routes  from  different  neighborhoods.  This  data  is  used  in  assessing  traffic 
impacts.  (Transportation  Study,  Appendix  C.)  None  of  these  analyses  consider  a 
common  traffic  pattern  from  Glen  Park,  Diamond  Heights,  Balboa  or  outer  Noe 
Valley,  where  cars  use  Randall  Street  to  cut  across  San  Jose  Avenue,  left  onto 
Mission,  then  turn  right  onto  Cortland.  This  is  a  commonly  used  path  for  access  to 
and  through  Bernal  Heights.  It's  important  because  it  puts  more  pressure  on  the 
intersection  of  Mission  and  Cortland,  one  of  the  intersections  which  is  projected 
to  degrade  into  the  Level  of  Service  F  level. 


5.  Projections  of  Future  Traffic  Growth  are  Seriously  Underestimated 

The  Transportation  Study  makes  predictions  about  future  traffic  conditions,  in  the 
year  2015,  by  applying  a  simple  growth  factor  to  "current  plus  project" 
projections.  Yet  this  methodology  completely  overlooks  the  reality  of  the  true 
growth  factors  that  the  opening  of  a  big  box  project  like  Home  Depot  will  create. 
Once  one  big  box  store  opens  in  an  area,  it  launches  an  avalanche  of  development 
of  other  big  box  stores  nearby.  One  only  needs  to  look  at  nearby  Colma  or 
Emeryville  to  see  this  trend.  Home  Depot  was  one  of  the  first  anchors  in  both  of 
those  areas,  which  have  since  seen  explosive  big  box  development,  and  the 
accompanying  traffic  nightmares.  Even  now,  Pier  One  has  a  lease  option  on  an 
adjacent  property  on  Bayshore  Blvd,  contingent  on  the  Home  Depot  project's 

2 


E-26 


being  built.  And  the  Planning  Department  has  plans  to  zone  the  whole  Bayshore 
corridor  for  big  box  development,  making  this  trend  a  certainty.  So  all  the 
estimates  on  future  traffic  impacts  for  this  area  are  seriously  underrepresented 
because  they  ignore  this  inevitable  explosive  big  box  growth.  All  of  the  traffic 
estimates  for  2015  need  to  be  recalculated. 


Impacts  of  Traffic  are  underrepresented  and  unacceptable 

According  to  the  Transportation  Study,  The  Home  Depot  project  would  generate  up  to 
848  additional  vehicle  trips  per  hour  during  the  weekday  peak  hours,  and  an  additional 
1268  vehicle  trips  during  the  Saturday  peak  hour. 

1.  This  Saturday  peak  hour  coincides  with  the  Alemany  Farmers  Market 

activity,  further  exacerbating  the  already  congested  conditions  in  that  vicinity. 
The  DEIR  does  not  address  whether  project  traffic  will  have  any  negative  impact 
on  the  Farmers  Market. 


2.  Spillover  to  Side  Streets.  Traffic  backups  at  Cortland  and  Bayshore  will  cause 
eastbound  traffic  to  use  residential  side  streets.  The  DEIR  states,  "To  avoid  the 
queues  and  the  associated  delays  at  the  Bayshore/Cortland  intersection  ,  drivers 
may  divert  to  other  routes,  such  as  Putnam  Street."  (DEIR  page  68).  We  are 
certain  this  will  happen,  since  it  already  happens  during  the  busy  Saturday 
Farmers  Market  time.  The  proposed  improvement  here  is  to  add  an  additional 
right  turn  lane  from  Cortland  to  Bayshore.  But  there  are  already  two  lanes  of 
traffic  there,  even  if  there  isn't  a  clear  white  stripe  dividing  them.  This  is  a  non- 
solution  to  this  situation.  The  DEIR  makes  it  sound  like  there  is  very  often  a 
MUNI  bus  there,  eliminating  that  second  right  turn  lane.  We  wish  the  service  was 
indeed  that  frequent,  but  there  is  rarely  a  bus  there,  and  if  so,  only  briefly. 


3.  Current  design  shows  Cortland  Avenue  feeding  into  Home  Depot  Driveway. 
This  will  cause  an  unacceptable  level  of  congestion  at  this  intersection.  While  the 
DEIR  tries  to  dismiss  this  issue  with  a  traffic  signal  and  left  turn  lanes,  one  need 
only  picture  the  cars  queued  up  to  enter  the  Colma  driveway  to  imagine  the  kind 
of  congestion  that  this  project  will  introduce  into  this  major  traffic  route  for 
Bernal  Heights.  Why  don't  any  of  the  alternatives  show  a  different  layout,  where 
the  driveway  does  not  line  up  with  Cortland? 


4.  Level  of  Service  Degradations  for  Freeway  On-Ramps  Unacceptable 

The  Transportation  Study  shows  that  if  the  Home  Depot  is  built,  in  the  very  near 
future  (year  2015)  the  five  freeway  on-ramps  will  degrade  to  Level  of  Service 
(LOS)  Grade  F.  And  this  can't  be  mitigated.  The  study  concludes,  "...no  feasible 
mitigation  measures  to  improve  operations  of  the  freeway  mainline-ramp  junction 
have  been  identified,  and  the  Proposed  Project's  significant  contribution  to  the 
on-ramp  conditions  would  be  considered  a  significant  unavoidable 
impact."(Transportation  Study  page  4-25.)  We  believe  that  this  impact  should 
provide  the  Planning  Commission  with  an  overriding  concern  about  the  negative 


E-27 


80 


effects  of  this  project  on  the  surrounding  area. 


.  Level  of  Service  Degradations  for  Intersections  Unacceptable 

Similarly,  many  of  the  intersections  studied  will  degrade  to  levels  D  or  E,  if  this 
project  is  built.  The  City  considers  levels  E  and  F  as  "unacceptable."  Because 
Bernal  Heights'  geography  limits  our  east/west  access  routes  in  and  out  of  the 
neighborhood  basically  to  either  Cortland  Avenue  or  Crescent  Avenue,  we 
consider  a  LOS  D  as  unacceptable.  We  don't  really  have  the  choice  of  going 
another  way,  when  one  of  these  key  intersections  is  congested. 

The  chart  below  shows  the  projected  levels  of  our  intersections  and  on-ramps  for 
the  three  projected  periods,  according  to  the  transportation  study.  To  allow  so 
many  key  intersections  to  degrade  to  level  D,  E,  or  F  is  an  unacceptable  result  of 
this  project,  since  it  would  substantially  change  the  quality  of  life  and  pedestrian 
nature  of  the  neighborhood. 

The  chart  below  also  brings  to  light  how  some  of  the  LOS  data  in  the 
transportation  masks  the  true  nature  of  the  traffic  impacts.  The  charts  on  Level  of 
Service  in  the  Transportation  Study  show  averages  for  each  intersection,  which  is 
misleading  for  some  key  intersections.  For  instance,  the  "Existing  Plus  Project" 
LOS  for  Cortland  and  Bayshore  is  portrayed  as  a  D,  which  would  be  considered 
acceptable  to  the  City  (although  not  to  us).  What  the  DEIR  doesn't  mention  is  that 
this  D  is  an  average  for  the  intersection,  and  that  the  eastbound  direction  of 
Cortland  at  Bayshore  degrades  to  level  E  during  both  the  weekend  and  evening 


peak  hours.  (Transportation  Study,  page  4-7)  And  the  busiest  traffic  period  for 
4§        this  intersection,  the  morning  commute  hour,  was  not  even  studied  at  all. 

Similarly,  by  providing  an  average  LOS  for  the  intersection  of  Bayshore  and 
Industrial,  the  DEIR  overlooks  the  projection  that  "both  the  eastbound  left-turn 
64        movement  and  the  southbound  through  movement  would  operate  at  LOS  E." 
(Transportation  Study  page  4-7)  Yet  this  is  a  crucial  traffic  pattern  for  cars 
coming  off  the  freeway  to  reach  the  project  location. 


Traffic  Ratings  at  Intersections  and 
Freeway  Ramps 

Current 
Rating 

Current  + 

Home 

Depot 

Year  2015 

Location 

Week- 
day pm 

Sat. 
Midday 

Week- 
day pm 

Sat. 
Midday 

Week- 
day pm 

Sat. 
Midday 

Freeway  ON  RAMPS 

A 

US  101  NB  @  Alemany/lndustrial  On 

c 

C 

c 

c 

F 

C 

B 

US  101  NB  @  Bayshore/Cesar  Chavez 
On 

c 

F 

c 

F 

F 

F 

4 

E-28 


Traffic  Ratings  at  Intersections  and 
Freeway  Ramps 

Current 
Rating 

Current  + 

Home 

Depot 

Year  2015 

c 

US  101  SB  @  Alemany/lndustrial  On 

C 

C 

C 

C 

F 

F 

D 

US  101  SB  @  San  Bruno  On 

C 

B 

C 

B 

F 

C 

E 

I-280  WB  @  Alemany  On 

F 

B 

F 

B 

F 

B 

Traffic  Intersections 

1 

Bayshore/Jerrold/101  NB  Off 

C 

D 

D 

D 

D 

D 

2 

Bayshore/Oakdale 

C 

C 

D 

C 

D 

C 

3 

Bayshore/Cortland  -  Average  for 

intprQPPtinn 

II  1 ICI  OUOllUI  1 

C 

B 

D 

D 

D 

D 

3 

Bayshore/Cortland  -  Eastbound 
Cortland 

Info  not 
given 

E 

E 

E 

E 

4 

Bayshore/lndustrial-  Average  for 
intersection 

D 

C 

D 

C 

D 

C 

4 

Bayshore/lndustrial-  Eastbound 
Industrial  left  turn  land  and 
Southbound  Bayshore 

E 

C 

Info  not 
given 

5 

Bayshore/Silver  -  Average  for  intersection 

C 

B 

C 

B 

D 

B 

Bayshore/Silver  -  Northbound  left  turn 

Info  not  given 

F 

Not 
given 

6 

Alemany/Putnam/101  SB  Off 

C 

C 

c 

D 

C 

D 

7 

Alemany/San  Bruno/101  SB  on 

C 

B 

C 

C 

D 

D 

8 

Almany/Cut  thru/101  NB  off 

A 

A 

A 

A 

B 

A 

9 

Industrial/Cut  thru 

B 

A 

B 

A 

B 

A 

10 

Mission/Cortland 

B 

C 

C 

D 

F 

F 

11 

Cortland/Andover 

B 

B 

C 

B 

C 

D 

12 

Cortland/Folsom 

B 

B 

B 

B 

B 

B 

13 

Oakdale/Loomis 

C 

B 

C 

C 

D 

C 

14 

Industrial/Loomis 

B 

B 

B 

B 

C 

B 

6.  Mission  and  Cortland  Intersection  Degrades  to  F 

The  Transportation  Study  shows  the  intersection  of  Mission  and  Cortland 
degrading  to  the  unacceptable  Level  of  Service  F.  This  will  have  serious  impacts 
for  Bernal  residents,  as  this  is  a  primary  gateway  to  and  from  Bernal  Heights.  It 
will  also  impact  many  MUNI  lines,  including  the  14  Mission,  24  Divisidero,  49 


E-29 


Van  Ness,  and  67  Bernal  Heights. 

The  proposed  mitigation  to  this  is  to  install  a  left-turn  signal  for  southbound 
Mission  Street.  This  is  completely  inadequate  to  resolve  the  problems  that  this 
traffic  will  create.  The  DEIR  assumes  that  the  traffic  will  be  primarily 
southbound,  turning  left  onto  Cortland  (to  cut  through  Bernal  Heights  to  reach  the 
Home  Depot.)  Yet  traffic  counts  from  the  recent  BART  Feasibility  Study  for  a 
possible  30th  and  Mission  Station  do  not  confirm  this  assertion  that  most  traffic  is 
southbound.  In  the  BART's  counts,  the  southbound  totals  for  a  24  hour  period 
were  8020  vehicles,  and  the  counts  for  northbound  traffic  found  10,668  vehicles. 
(May  2003,  Feasibility  Study  For  an  Infill  Bart  Station,  Appendix  B)  So  a  left- 
turn  lane  for  the  southbound  traffic  would  cause  more  delays  and  queuing  for 
northbound  traffic.  The  proposed  mitigation  is  completely  inadequate.  This 
situation  warrants  much  more  careful  study  and  analysis. 


7.  Traffic  Calming  Studies  Finds  Hotspots  But  DEIR  Ignores  Them 

While  the  DEIR  claims  that  traffic  on  Cortland  and  other  residential  streets  is 
relatively  light,  the  City's  Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic  found  enough  traffic 
problems  in  Bernal  Heights  to  perform  a  Traffic  Calming  Study.  The  Traffic 
Calming  study  identified  many  issues  of  concern  along  Cortland  Avenue:  cut- 
through  traffic  along  the  entire  street  between  Bayshore  Blvd  and  Mission  Street; 
collision  hot-spots  at  many  intersections  along  Cortland,  and  congestion  at  the 
intersections  of  Cortland/ Andover  and  Mission/Cortland.  It  found  similar 
problems  at  the  intersection  of  Alemany/Putnam/ 101  southbound  off-ramp. 

The  Traffic  Calming  Study's  figures  on  total  collisions  at  various  intersections 
between  1995  and  1999  are  somewhat  alarming.  The  worst  intersection,  at 
Crescent  Avenue  and  Alemany  Blvd.,  has  seen  54  collisions  during  this  four-year 
period,  which  caused  injuries  to  58  people.  Twenty  three  collisions  at  Cortland 
and  Mission  caused  26  injuries.  These  findings  suggest  that  the  simple  Level  of 
Service  assignments  to  intersections  don't  portray  the  complete  picture  of  the 
actual  traffic  situation  in  a  neighborhood. 


8.  Will  Proposed  Alternatives  Really  Bring  Less  Traffic? 

The  DEIR  discusses  two  slightly  smaller  alternatives,  a  107,400  square  foot  store, 
and  a  140,000  square  foot  store,  suggesting  that  this  slight  reduction  in  size  would 
reduce  the  traffic  enough  to  avoid  some  of  the  traffic  problems  of  the  larger  store. 
This  is  an  underhanded  manipulation  of  some  basic  formulas  used  to  project 
vehicle  trips.  It  suggests  that  some  number  of  people  considering  shopping  there 
will  decide  not  to  go  because  it's  not  big  enough.  The  City  must  find  a  way  to 
estimate  what  the  basic  threshold  of  demand  will  exist  for  any  Home  Depot  of  any 
size. 


71 


r- 


E-30 


6 


Parking  Impacts 


JLjThe  proposed  parking  garage  can't  meet  peak  demand.  Information  from  traffic 
study  withheld  from  DEIR. 

The  project  anticipates  a  peak  demand  for  539  parking  spaces  on  Saturday  afternoons. 
The  garage  will  have  550  spaces. 

The  DEIR  concludes  that  this  is  adequate:  "Since  the  proposed  project  would  include 
550  parking  spaces,  it  would  meet  the  Planning  Code  requirements  and  meet  the 
anticipated  parking  demand."  (page  6), 

Yet  the  Traffic  study  has  other  information.  The  traffic  study  includes  a  very 
significant  additional  paragraph  on  "Parking  Supply  versus  Planning  Code  requirements" 
which  concludes  that  the  parking  structure  won't  be  able  to  hold  all  the  cars  at  peak 
times.  "It  should  be  noted  that  parking  facilities  typically  have  an  effective  capacity  of 
about  90  percent,  which  accounts  for  certain  inefficiencies  of  the  facility,  and  that  spaces 
emptied  cannot  be  immediately  reoccupied.  As  such,  during  the  peak  parking  demand 
periods,  it  may  be  difficult  for  drivers  to  find  parking  within  the  Proposed  Project's 
parking  garage."  (Page  4-15). 

This  information  was  not  included  in  the  DEIR,  which  seems  to  be  a  serious  omission  of 
a  finding  by  the  project's  own  consultant.  We  expect  the  effective  capacity  to  be  even 
lower  than  90%  because  the  garage  is  on  three  levels.  For  a  store  where  consumers 
purchase  large  items,  and  they  must  push  large,  heavy  carts  to  their  vehicles,  they  prefer 
to  park  on  the  lower,  entrance  level,  not  the  higher  levels.  Even  when  ramps  or  elevators 
are  provided,  people  prefer  to  park  at  the  entrance  level.  This  is  certainly  the  case  in 
Colma,  where  people  will  circle  the  lower  level  or  wait  for  vehicles  to  depart,  rather  than 
go  up  the  ramp  to  the  upper  level  of  parking.  It  is  unacceptable  to  build  a  project  when 
the  garage  cannot  hold  the  related  parking. 


Parking  garage  spillover  will  increase  traffic  back-ups. 

If  cars  can't  fit  into  the  garage,  they  will  either  queue  up  on  the  street  waiting  to  get  in,  or 
they  will  circle  the  area.  Both  activities  will  cause  further  delays  and  traffic  tie-ups.  And 
idling  cars  create  higher  levels  of  toxic  air  emissions. 

Parking  problems  won't  encourage  more  transit  ridership. 

While  the  DEIR  doesn't  actually  state  that  the  garage  won't  hold  all  the  cars,  it  does  state 
that  the  effect  of  "cars  circling  and  looking  for  a  parking  space  in  areas  of  limited 
supply.  ..is  often  offset  by  a  reduction  on  vehicle  trips  due  to  others  who  are  aware  of 
constrained  parking  conditions  in  a  given  area."  (Page  56)  This  would  not  seem  very 
likely,  given  that  most  people  who  shop  at  Home  Depot  are  purchasing  building  materials 
and  bulky  items,  which  can't  be  transported  on  public  transit. 


Transit  impacts 

The  DEIR  and  the  Transportation  Study  both  concede  that  the  MUNI  and  Sam  Trans  bus 
lines  which  pass  through  the  Bayshore  corridor  will  be  impacted  by  the  slower  traffic  of 
vehicles  come  to  and  from  the  project,  and  vehicles  lined  up  along  Bayshore  to  enter  the 
parking  garage.  The  Transportation  Study  acknowledges,  "...  there  would  be  a  potential 


E-31 


for  conflicts  between  buses  pulling  into  and  out  of  the  curb  bus  stop  and  project-related 
traffic  turning  into  and  out  of  the  garage.  In  addition,  pedestrians  waiting  at  the  bus  stop 
would  experience  higher  levels  of  vehicle  activity  than  currently  occurs."  (09/02 
Transportation  Study,  page  4-13). 

The  DEIR  also  admits  that  "travel  times  for  MUNI  and  SamTrans  buses  would  somewhat 
increase."  (DEIR  page  69)  But  it  goes  on  to  justify  this  by  saying  it  will  be  just  as  bad  as 
for  non-transit  vehicles.  "Transit  vehicles. .  .would  experience  the  same  delays,  queuing, 
and  levels  of  congestion  as  regular  vehicular  traffic...  In  addition,  transit  vehicles  may 
experience  minor  delays  pulling  out  from  bus  stops  into  the  travel  lanes  as  a  result  of  the 
increased  traffic  volumes  and  queues."  This  will  be  a  particular  problem  for  the  MUNFs 
westbound  24  Divisidero  bus  line,  which  stops  on  Bayshore  just  south  of  the  site,  then 
must  cross  the  three  lanes  of  Bayshore  Blvd  to  make  the  left  turn  onto  Cortland.  Since 
this  is  where  cars  will  be  backed  up  to  get  into  the  parking  garage,  this  will  be  a  source  of 
delays  for  this  route.  This  line  already  has  enough  delays,  service  problems,  and 
uncertainties  for  riders  to  endure.  A  city  with  a  "Transit  First"  policy  should  not  allow 
development  to  further  erode  the  existing  transit  services. 


E-32 


8 


(5)  Freeway  on-ramps  —  see  Table  1 


O  Study  intersections  —  see  Table  2 


iource:  Wilbur  Smith  Associates 


Level  of  Service  =  F 
Level  of  Service  =  E 
Level  of  Service  —  D 


ides  for 

With  Home  Depot 


Collision 
Hotspot 


| 


Collision  Hotspot 
Identified  by  Traffic 


|  %   Calming  Study,  SF  DPT 


£-33 


Comments  on  the  Home  Depot  EIR  -  Growth  Inducement, 
Planning  and  Land  Use 


1.  Land  Use,  Zoning,  and  General  Plan  Consistency: 


The  City  is  compelled  to  discourage  development  which  has  substantial 
undesirable  consequences  that  cannot  be  mitigated.  (Page  40) 


The  proposed  development  will  have  substantial  undesirable  consequences.  The 
project  will  increase  land  values  in  the  area,  causing  significant  conditions  for 
displacement  of  existing  PDR  businesses.  The  Draft  EIR  neglects  to  cite  SF 
Redevelopment  and  SF  Planning  Department  studies  and  planning  documents  on 
land  value  appreciation  anticipated  due  to  the  project,  its  impacts  on  surrounding 
properties,  the  impacts  of  land  appreciation  on  lease  holding  existing  PDR 
businesses. 


The  proposed  development  raises  a  significant  question  concerning  compliance 
with  the  San  Francisco  General  Plan,  since  the  General  Plan's  Land  Use  Indices 
do  not  pertain  to  Bernal  Heights,  and  there  is  no  Land  Use  element  to  establish 
reference. 


2.  Growth  Inducement 


The  Draft  EIR  finds  that  the  project  would  not  have  a  significant  effect  on  growth 
inducement  (pg.  103,  Section  F).  This  finding  is  inadequate. 

The  proposed  Home  Depot  development  is  intended  to  be  growth-inducing,  and 
its  impacts  as  a  growth-inducing  development  need  to  be  studied  as  part  of  the 
EIR.  Since  the  project's  application  for  environmental  review,  Pier  One  Imports 
has  lease-optioned  a  currently  undeveloped  site  adjacent  to  the  proposed  Home 
Depot  development  on  the  condition  that  the  Home  Depot  development  is  granted 
approval  to  build,  which  demonstrates  that  without  even  breaking  ground,  the 
project  is  inducing  growth. 


The  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  and  the  San  Francisco  Redevelopment 
Agency,  through  the  Eastern  Neighborhoods  Planning  and  Zoning  process  and  the 
Survey  Area  Plan  for  the  South  Bayshore  Survey  Area,  have  stated  an  intention  to 
encourage  development,  including  Big  Box  retail  development,  along  the 
Bayshore  corridor.  The  Redevelopment  Agency  has  been  explicit  in  its  support  of 
the  Home  Depot  proposed  development  that  Home  Depot  is  necessary  to  anchor 
and  jumpstart  further  large-scale  development  along  Bayshore. 

1 


E-34 


The  Draft  EIR  states  that  the  project  may  induce  commercial  growth  in  the  area, 
but  such  growth  would  be  part  of  the  planned  growth  for  the  City.  The 
commercial  growth  induced  by  the  project,  if  comparable  in  size  and  scope  to  the 
project  (in  aggregate  as  well  as  individually),  would  create  impacts  on 
infrastructure  far  above  existing  capacity.  The  possible  impacts  on  infrastructure 
would  include,  but  are  not  limited  to;  traffic,  including  intersections  and  freeway 
on  and  off  ramps;  traffic  flow  capacity  of  101  northbound  and  southbound;  water 
and  sewage  usage;  mass  transit  routing;  and  emergency  services  response  times. 
The  Draft  EIR  reference  to  planned  commercial  growth  provides  no  citation  to  a 
specific  plan,  so  it  is  impossible  to  determine  which  plan  is  being  referenced. 

The  San  Francisco  Redevelopment  Agency  has  been  very  explicit  that  they 
support  the  project  because  the  project  will  increase  the  value  of  the  land  on  the 
site,  and  that  the  tax  increment  created  by  this  increase  will  be  ear-marked  to 
finance  other  projects  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Survey  Area.  This  increase  in 
land  value  will  cause  increases  in  land  value  throughout  the  Bay  shore  IPZ, 
creating  pressures  for  speculative  rent  increases  for  Bayshore  businesses,  leading 
to  displacement  of  existing  businesses. 

The  Planning  Department  anticipates  this  displacement  in  their  recommended 
zoning  changes  for  the  Bayshore  corridor,  contained  in  the  Eastern 
Neighborhoods  Plan.  They  recommend  that  Bayshore  Boulevard,  from  the  US 
101  to  Loomis  Street  in  one  draft,  and  from  US  101  to  Barneveld  Street  in 
another,  be  rezoned  to  "Industrial/Large  Retail",  a  euphemism  for  more  Big  Box 
retail  development. 

Again,  the  City,  through  it's  agencies,  have  made  explicit  claims  and  based 
significant  planning  strategies  on  the  basis  of  their  belief  that  the  proposed  Home 
Depot  will  cause  more  than  equivalent  commercial  growth,  but  will  induce 
growth. 

The  Environmental  Impact  Report  needs  to  review  and  analyze  the  reports,  plans, 
studies  and  recommendations  of  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  and  the 
San  Francisco  Redevelopment  Agency  regarding  the  Bayshore  corridor,  and  the 
proposed  Home  Depot  development,  including  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  portion  of 
the  Eastern  Neighborhoods  Plan,  and  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Community 
Revitalization  Concept  Plan  and  related  documents  to  accurately  assess  whether 
the  project  is  growth-inducing  before  making  a  finding. 


E-35 


2 


Comments  on  the  Home  Depot  DEIR  -  Seismic  Analysis  of 
Merchandise  Storage  and  Spillage 


The  Draft  EIR  states  that  the  subsurface  conditions  at  the  project  site  is  underlain  by 
about  9  to  22  feet  of  uncompacted  and  undocumented  artificial  fills  over  Bay  Mud 
deposits,  combined  with  groundwater  levels  from  9  to  14  feet  below  the  surface  (Page 
95-96).  Since  the  project  intends  to  store  inventory  in  a  warehouse  style  fully  accessible 
by  the  public,  the  EIR  must  study  the  impacts  of  seismic  events  on  the  style  of  storage 
racks  used  by  Home  Depot. 

The  public  safety  issues  of  merchandise  spillage  from  Home  Depot  racks  during  seismic 
events  require  by  an  independent  seismic  consultant,  and  their  recommendations  need  to 
be  included  in  the  EIR1.  Falling  merchandise  has  been  recognized  as  a  significant  safety 
hazard  at  Home  Depot2,  and  this  is  especially  critical  for  storage  of  toxic  materials 
identified  by  the  state  of  California  in  Home  Depot  inventory  as  the  project  is  sited  on 
soil  vulnerable  to  seismic  disruption. 


1  The  California  Seismic  Safety  Commission  conducted  a  2001  study  on  general  warehouse-style 
merchandise  racks,  but  their  conclusion  was  that  more  specific  studies  need  to  be  conducted. 

2  "Falling  Doors  Kill  Boy  at  Home  Depot", 

http://atlanta.biziournals.com/atlanta/stories/2003/05/19/storvl.htnil;  also, 

http://www.fallingmerchandise.com/lawsuits.asp;  "Eight  lawsuits  for  falling  merchandise  against  Home 
Depot  since  January  2000"  (Kings  County,  WA),  http://www.kirotv.com/consumer/2217901/detail.html 


E-36 


NO. 135 


P.  1 


m 


July  10,2003 


Planning  Commission 

City  and  County  of  San  Francisco 


163 


m 


Please  vote  NO  on  the  proposed  Home  Depot  for  Bayshore  Avenue.  This  project  will  be  a  traffic  and 
environment  nightmare  for  this  area.  The  Bayshore  corridor  already  has  building  materials  suppliers  of  every 
type  and  Home  Depot  is  not  needed. 


113  live  on  the  comer  of  Putnam  and  Jarboe  Avenues.  The  traffic  study  has  said  that  cars  will  come  this  way  to 
i    get  to  Home  Depot  These  streets  are  already  crowded  on  Saturdays  and  Sundays  with  traffic  for  the  farmer's 
j    market  and  the  flea  market.  Putnam  is  too  narrow  for  two  cars  to  pass  in  many  places.  Traffic  will  be 
;    horrendous  if  Home  Depot  is  allowed  to  use  Cortland  Avenue  as  its  drive  way. 


My  wife  and  daughter  suffer  from  asthma.  This  will  be  exacerbated  by  increased  traffic  and  pollution  in  this 

area 


125 

1    PLEASE  VOTE  NO  ON  HOME  DEPOT. 


Please  note:  I  am  a  general  contractor  and  I  DO  NOT  want  Home  Depot  in  my  neighborhood  to  increase  the 
^°iffic  and  pollution. 

113  

scott  Barlow 
900  Jaiboe  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  CA 
94110 


E-37 


Date:  V  MJU^  1S>Q"5 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 

Environmental  Review  Officer  /y 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department  '^Q/z 
1660  Mission  Street  , 
San  Francisco,  C A  94103  6.    v  <  « 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS  "  0^ 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 

Co^cu^l  A«W.  Uo^V  y^LU  tU  V<H^  oL 


Sincerely, 


Sieuiature 


Printed  Name: 
Address: 


E-38 


d 


1 


yA Qy(^ Pomments/for  the  DEIR  J 

pacts/createc 


ol  0^ 


60 


£  The  DEIR  does  not  adequately  address  thi  traffic  impacts/fcreated  by  the  building  design. 
It  also  does  not  adequately  address  and  discuss  the  improvement  conditions  necessary  to 
address  to  impact  on  traffic  flow.  The  onlyvcondition/ addressed  are  the  Cortland  Street 
pedestrian  walk  ways,  and  signals.  Additional  consideration  should  be  given  to  other 
intersections  as  a  result  of  the  design. 


58 


Summary/T ransportation  Page  4^ 


78 


J? 


94 


1 .  DEIR  indicates  the  proposed  project  would  generate  848  vehicle  trips  during  the 
weekday  pm  peak  anflj 268' vehicle  trips  during  the  Saturday  midday  peak.  Then 
on  page  5  it  indicarf~lhat  the  additional  vehicle  trips  would  not  change  the 
operating  conditions  at  the  intersections  studied.  It  star?  that  all  analysjJ^Treeway 
on-ramps  would  continue  to  operate  at  the  same  levels  of  service  as  under  existing 
conditions.  Further,  the  second  paragraph  of  page  5  states  the  increase  in  vehicles 
destined  to  and  from  the  proposed  project  would  result  in  a  moderate  increase  in 
delay  at  individual  movements  at  several  study  intersection.  Vehicles  making 
these  movement  may  experience  somewhat  higher  delays.  These  statements  seem 
to  contradict  each  other  and  require  further  explanation  [  The  projects  design  does 
not  adequately  address  the  traffic  patterns  that  will  result  from  the  project.  In 
Paragraph  3  on  page  5  additional  discussion  and  analysis  is  needed  relative  to  the 
average  queues.  The  proposed  left  turn  pocket  should  be  analysed  based  on  peak 
ic  conditions  to  the  project. 


(e  6  Paragraph  3  indicates  the  proposed  project  is  requied  to  provide  503  off 
street  parking  spaces  per  code.  The  project  would  include  550  parking  spaces. 
Further  discussion  of  parking  impacts  from  the  project  during  peak  periods  is^ 
required.  If  during  peak  periods  it  is  anticipated  there  will  be  approximately  600 
vehicles  during  peak,  additional  discussion  of  overflow  parking  is  needed.  The 


current  design  does  not  accommodate  peak  vehicle  trips  and  further  discussion  of 
how  on-street  parking  will  impact  traffic  flow  should  be  included  in  the  deir. 


96 


Page  6  last  paragraph  indicates  there  will  be  about  30  daily  delivery  trips  per  day 
of  approximately  15  semi  tractors  trailers  and  15  small  trucks/ vans.  The  current 
project  design  shows  the  truck  entry  on  Loomis,  but  no  discussion  of  traffic 
impacts  by  these  trucks  to  the  intersections  of  Bayshore/Oakdale, 
Oakdale/Loomis  or  Industrial  Way/Loomis.  More  discussion  is  required  of  these 
impacts  and  alternative  project  designs  to  mitigate  truck  congestion.  Further,  no 
discussion  is  provided  on  the  impact  of  these  trucks  to  neighboring  Loomis 
businesses.  With  four  truck  stalls,  further  discussion  is  warranted  on  the  projects 
impact  on  existing  business  should  trucks  be  qued  to  enter  the  loading  area.  See 
Site  Plan  Figure  2  A-4  of  DEIR. 


107 


Page  7  last  paragraph  indicates  that  future  operating  conditions  on  101  and  280 
will  worsen  and  that  the  proposed  projects  contribution  to  the  poor  on-ramp 


E-39 


Page  4  of  6 


conditions  would  be  considered  a  significant  unavoidable  cumulative  impact. 
This  requires  additional  discussion  of  improvement  conditions  that  could  be 
provided  by  the  project  sponsor,  as  well  as  further  analysis  of  the  proposed  design 
for  alternatives  that  may  address  and  alleviate  this  impact. 


Page  54  indicates  the  traffic  signal  at  Cortland  and  Bayshore  is  20-25  seconds 
often  meaning  people  are  unable  to  cross  within  the  allotted  time.  Additional 
discussion  and  analysis  of  improvement  should  be  given  to  improving  the  allotted 
crossing  time  considering  people  leaving  the  proposed  project  may  be  carrying 
purchases.  If  the  time  for  this  signal  is  increased  then  impacts  on  traffic  cued  to 
turn  will  increase.  This  warrants  further  discussion  on  parking  lot  access  in  the 
project  design  and  any  potential  improvement  conditions  the  project  sponsor  will 
need  to  address. 


Page  1 1  D.  Mitigation  Measures  indicates  project's  contribution  to  the  adverse 
conditions  to  the  Mission/Cortland  would  be  significant  by  the  year  2015,  but 
doesn't  discuss  how  the  project  sponsor  will 


7.  Page  40  and  41  Under  the  general  Plan.  The  DEIR  list  the  key  objectives  and 
policies  of  the  General  Plan  relevant  to  the  proposed  project.  Futher  discussion  is 
necessary  beyond  listing  the  General  Plans  Objective/Policy.  Discussion  relative 
to  HOW  the  project  meetings  these  goals  is  necessary.  The  project  design  seems 
inconsistent  with  Urban  design  element  policy  2  and  policy  6.  DEIR  should  detail 
how  the  project  meetings  the  general  plan  policies  as  listed.  Also  under  the 
transportation  element,  policy  6. 1  the  project  design  as  present  does  not  appear  to 
designate  expeditious  routes  for  freight  trucks  and  required  by  the  policy.  The 
lack  of  adequate  crossings  fails  to  provide  adequate  crossings  as  mentioned  in 
policy  23.7.  The  truck  entry  provided  in  the  project  design  does  not  adequately 
serve  the  30  daily  truck  deliveries  anticipated  by  the  project  and  therefore  does 
not  meet  Policy  40.1  Further  discussion  of  how  the  project  will  meet  the  policies 
of  the  general  plan  is  necessary. 


Page  62  paragraph  2  indicates  Cortland  avenue  will  see  an  increase  in  vehicle 
traffice  of  106  vehicles  during  the  weekday  and  159  vehicles  during  the  the 
Saturday  peak.  It  is  anticipated  this  will  result  in  increase  in  the  hourly  traffic 
volumes.  This  merits  further  discussion  of  where  vehicle  access  to  the  project 
could  be  to  determine  of  this  will  discourage  or  encourage  the  use  of  Cortland 
avenue  to  the  project,  fyt/gsf  l/^'c/r  k)t'L<~  Most  L'(C*(f  2?<=-  ReSi'bevtS 
0}Th*  &gffW  ^ae^^oX  hkoP/eUJho  voilL  UStF+A*  Teeetovy*. 
Improvement  conditions  to  the  project  as  identified  on  page  110  are  inadequate 
and  merit  further  discussion.  Additional  improvement  measures  may  be 
necessary  to  address  traffic  including  improvement  of  additional  intersections 
such  as  Oakdale/Loomis  where  truck  traffic  will  access  the  truck  entry  and  at 
Boutwell/Loomis  which  may  be  another  access  direction.  |The  parking  garage 
will  not  accommodate  all  cars  on  peak  days  and  off  street  parking  as  identified  in 
the  DEIR  on  Loomis  and  Waterloo  streets  could  impact  access  to  the  Parking 


E-40 


Page  5  of  6 


94 


139 


garage.  The  project  sponsor  indicates  the  project  will  have  an  adverse  effect  on 
traffic  by  year  2015,  but  doesn't  indicate  the  project  sponsor's  commitment  to 
funding  improvement  conditions.  Project  sponsor  assumes  the  cost  of  future 
improvements  will  not  be  borne  by  the  project  sponsor,  but  by  the  city. 
Improvement  conditions  should  discuss  how  the  project  sponsor  will  address 
these  improvements  if  the  City  will  not  or  cannot  implement  the  improvements. 


77 


10.  Additional  discussion  and  analysis  of  the  project  design  is  warranted.  Access  to 
the  parking  areas,  the  truck  entry  and  the  traffic  on  Bayshore,  Loomis,  Oakdale 
and  Boutwell  contribute  to  the  potential  traffic  congestion  issues.  The  addition  of 
a  u  turn  lane  on  Bayshore  will  create  traffic  congestion  of  vehicles  leaving  the 
project  garage  and  crossing  traffic  to  utilize  the  u  turn  lane  and  of  vehicles  that 
may  make  the  u-turn  to  head  north. 


Improvements  to  Bayshore  do  not  address  access  to  other  Bayshore  businesses. 
The  vehicle  access  to  and  from  the  project  does  not  provide  access  to  neighboring 
businesses.  Vehicles  will  be  directed  to  the  project  and  away  from  the  project. 
Improvements  to  Bayshore  do  not  include  pedestrian  access  to  neighboring 
businesses. 


79 


12.  The  project  design  shows  the  parking  ramps  near  the  Waterloo  Street  vehicle 
access.  Further  analysis  is  needed  to  determine  if  this  will  contribute  to  traffic 
congestion  on  Waterloo,  thus  creating  traffic  problems  on  Bayshore  and/or 
Courtland  Street.  The  project  design  will  add  to  the  traffic  problems  by  virtue  of 
the  layout  of  the  parking  garage  access  and  the  truck  entry  off  of  Waterloo.  More 
analysis  should  be  given  to  a  design  that  provides  better  traffic  flow  to  and  from 
the  project  area,  with  improvement  conditions  made  by  the  project  sponsor  to 
prevent  traffic  jams  into  the  project. 


130 


61 


13.  Soil  results  are  not  adequately  addressed.  The  Initial  study  indicated  that 
quarterly  monitoring  indicated  first  3  quarters  were  negative  but  the  fourth  and 
final  monitoring  result  was  not  addressed.  What  is  impact  of  soil  contaiminents 
identified  in  the  soil  samples  if  they  are  disturbed  during  excavation  of  8500  cubic 
feet  of  soil  for  the  piles.  Further  discussion  of  hazardous  materials  mitigation  is 
needed.  Depth  for  a  suitable  bearing  layer  for  the  piles  should  vary  from  30  to  115 
feet  below  grade,  what  is  the  soil  quality  at  this  depth.  What  is  the  potential 
exposure  to  contaminated  soils. 


14.  The  DEIR  does  not| address  traffic  impacts  to  major  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
streets.  BVHP  has  the  largest  number  of  homeowners  in  the  City.  Those  who 
choose  to  patronize  Home  Depot  will  drive  to  the  store.  Roads  such  as  3  rd  and 
Oakdale,  Palou,  Silver  and  Paul  will  be  heavily  used  to  access  the  project  and 
should  be  address*  m  the  traffic  study.  N- 


is. 


115 


E-41 


  Original  Message   

From:   "Tammy  Chan"  <Tammy . ChanQsf gov . orq> 
To :   <sbbpr@pacbell . net> 

Sent:  Wednesday,  August  13,   2003  9:27  AM 
Subject:  Home  Depot  EIR  comment 

Hi  Tammy, 

Thanks  for  your  follow  up.     My  comment  is  actually  repeated  and 
completed  3 

paragraphs  down  in  my  remarks,  but  I've  finished  this  sentence  as  well. 


"  Page  11  D.  Mitigation  Measures  indicates" 

project's  contribution  to  the  adverse  conditions  to  the 

Miss ion /Cortland 

would  be  significant  by  the  year  2015,  but  doesn't  discuss  how  the 
project  sponsor  will  address  these  improvements  if  the  City  will  not  or 
cannot 

implement  the  improvements". 


Further  down  in  my  written  remarks  the  paragraph  begins  with 
"Improvement 

conditions   "     The  last  paragraph  actually  repeats  this  same 

concern . 

it  reads, 

The  project  sponsor  indicates  the  project  will  have  an  adverse  effect 
on 

traffic  by  year  2015,  but  doesn't  indicate  the  project  sponsor's 
commitment 

to  funding  improvement  conditions.     Project  sponsor  assumes  the  cost  of 
future  improvements  will  not  be  borne  by  the  project  sponsor,   but  by 
the 

city.     Improvement  conditions  should  discuss  how  the  project  sponsor 
will 

address  these  improvements  if  the  City  will  not  or  cannot  implement  the 
improvements . 

Thanks  Again, 

let  me  know  if  you  have  additional  questions. 


E-41a 


n 


E-41b 


Date: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 

JL  ^  «  $v^JJL  (vjiWjJ  Ou^Ktr  c  [olMpv^  ^ 'fcu  ^Jt 

5 tic  st>  diVkAh  tK\ 

D^^c^^H *^v-/X4~  ^1  i/Kj^it    cv^JvV  <Vnj    3^  ^*>-  C'w.^^^ 


RECEIVED 

JUL  0  9  2003 

PLANNING  DEPT 


Sincerely, 


Signature 


Printed  Name: 
Address:  


E-42 


Sharon  Carew 
924  Treat  Ave. 
San  Francisco 
CA  941 10 


Planning  Department  RECEIVED 
1660  Mission  Street  0  1  2($3 

May  1 , 2003 
Dear  Paul  Maltzer, 

I  am  writing  to  you  because  I  am  very  concerned  about  the 
prospect  of  a  Home  Depot  going  up  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard 


believe  this  will  have  a  negative  impact  on  the  environment  of  San 
Francisco.  The  air  pollution  would  be  horrendous  from  the  traffic  and 


big  trucks.  The  community  could  best  be  served  by  mixed  income 
housing,  community  services  and  outreach  programs.  We  don't  need  or 
want  another  home  Depot. 

As  a  home  owner  and  tax  payer  I  strongly  oppose  the  Home  Depot 
takeover. 


Sharon  Carew 


E-43 


Date: 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

RECEIVED 

JJL  1  1-2003 

PLANNING  DEPT 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


Signature 


Printed  Name 


Address 


E-44 


Date:  ?/l/l>\ 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


fa 

a,  <  j4  *0 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


Signature 


Printed  Name: 


<3f 


Address:    ^  >6  ^"    Ah^/Aj    fti^  A  , 


E-45 


Date:  7~ft-fl$ 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


32  h^AZ^-  th**^  Zbferf  sfzne.  oJ-fU^  BayAU^ 


Printed  Name:  StOTT   £?i  Ccm^Wj^j^ 


E-46 


Date: 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


RECEIVED 

JUL  0  7  2003 

PLANNING  DEPT 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


^  \^pW***w       <k  1W  Depot   ^  ia^W  ^  l^ 


vpL. 


Sincerely 


ro-s  axis') . 


Signature 

Printed  Name:    Hgjb&Q    M>  Di4jqn^ 
Address:  Soinnps&t  <St  


E-47 


30 


£  W  i       C4-Y  Sow,  few 

t)o4^--.     vloVu^    l**,  Q-«o»t>  


^^Sc^JL^JS^S^  <^     C_CUUZS>csr-  CJ^O^L^  .  f  (X     £\^JLo    "fly  l^Ow 


v\Jaa.1 


-TP  tWL.  ^~fVv\  -f^'  C 


125 
99 


130 


-ft 

j  i 


-to. 


Wvi^-eA-  US^  .0>^i^^U^/     /v^dU  .  _C<tc«  <^   

ji  a.p.{t-A:.  vy^h£.„.  <2As^  fw,    t^?pe^  rf-Cp^rS^  .  _jayv_ft  riv^.'f  K^XlS^x 


  E-48 


1 
I 
I 
I 
i 
I 
I 

1 
I 
I 

i 
i 
i 

■ 

i 


Daniel  G.  Dodt 
1556  Revere  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  California  94124 


RfCglYED 
JUL  1  4  2003 

1 0  July  2003  PLANING  DEPT 


Paul  Maltzer 

Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street  Suite  500 
San  Francisco,  California  94103 


Re:  Home  Depot  Project  -  491  Bayshore  Blvd. 

APN#  Block  5598/  lots  8,9,11,13,15,16,18,21,28 
DRAFT  EIR  dated  March  29,  2003 


Mr.  Maltzer, 

Thank  you  in  advance  for  taking  the  time  to  review  the  public  comments  on  this 
complicated  and  demanding  project  proposal.  I  have  reviewed  the  Draft  EIR, 
and  although  have  a  number  of  detailed  comments  which  could  take  quite  a  bit  of 
time  to  review,  I  will  instead  limit  my  appeal  to  a  few  key  points. 


As  a  Bayview  resident  and  small  business  owner,  Chair  of  the  Economic 
Development  Committee  of  the  BVHP-PAC,  member  of  the  Bayview  Merchants 
Association  and  Revere  Ave.  Residents  Association,  I  have  served  on  numerous 
local  planning  panels.  The  comments  contained  herein  are  of  a  personal  nature 
and  should  not  be  interpreted  as  necessarily  representative  of  any  group  or 
affiliation,  although  my  knowledge  of  the  facts  of  this  project  are  the  result  of  over 
two  years  of  direct  experience  with  the  sponsor  and  my  community.  Like  many 
of  my  neighbors,  friends  and  associates  in  the  Bayview  and  Bernal  communities, 
and  beyond,  I  share  the  desire  for  a  revitalized  Bayshore  corridor,  renewed 
commerce  and  growth  in  the  area,  and  a  home  improvement  supply  store.  The 
use  of  the  old  Goodman's  sites  for  building  and  construction  related  supply 
activity  is  consistent  with  the  historic  and  extant  nature  of  the  corridor. 

In  evaluating  any  proposal  for  land  use  or  environmental  appropriateness,  we  must  rely 
on  accuracy  of  information  and  factual  data  in  order  to  make  sound  decisions  on  behalf 
of  our  communities.  After  reviewing  the  Draft  EIR  for  this  project,  it  is  clear  that  a 
number  of  inconsistencies  form  the  basis  of  the  criteria  used  for  the  conclusions  drawn 


Specifically,  on  page  11  of  the  Draft  EIR,  the  information  on  daily  population  presumes 
100  daily  employees  and  3000  shoppers  per  day.  We  know  from  our  lengthy 
discussions  with  the  project  sponsor  that  the  daily  employment  figure  is  actually  300, 
three  times  the  stated  figure. 


E-49 


491  Bayshore  Blvd.  -  DRAFT  EIR  dated  March  29,  2003 


The  resulting  traffic  and  parking  requirements  for  these  employees  are,  by  extension, 
incorrectly  noted  in  the  Draft  EIR  documentation.  See  the  related  conclusions  drawn  on 
pages  6, 19,  21,  26,  58,  70, 103, 117,  and  in  the  appendices  I  acknowledge  the 
correction  made  in  the  July  7,  2003  letter  addressed  to  the  BVHP-PAC  by  the  project 
representatives  on  this  point,  but  now  question  the  validity  of  the  related  'daily  customer' 
figure  of  3000.  Traffic  and  environmental  impacts  are  compounded  as  these  figures 
increase.  The  project  sponsor  had  ample  opportunity  to  review  and  clarify  the  accuracy 
of  the  facts  submitted  in  preparation  of  the  draft  documentation,  in  my  opinion,  and  the  . 
misleading  information  contained  within  the  original  draft  is  not  acceptable. 

Other  numbers  do  not  add  up: 

Despite  my  repeated  requests  of  the  project  sponsor  to  correctly  identify  the  physical 
building  size  in  the  EIR,  the  stated  156,000sf  size  (  pages  2, 11,  25,  26,  42,  and 
appendices)  does  not  reflect  the  actual  226,000sf  store  and  included  parking  areas.  It 
was  recently  stated  by  the  project  architect  that  the  Bayshore  store  would  'be  one  of  the 
largest  stores  in  the  nation'  by  this  company.  If  the  size  is  mis-stated,  the  100  daily 
employee  figure  incorrect,  and  the  shopper  per  day  figure,  which  is  the  basis  for  the 
traffic  study  and  resulting  significant  impact  on  regional  air  quality,  also  questionable, 
how  can  we  rely  on  the  Draft  EIR  as  an  accurate  representation  of  the  project  impacts? 

We  should  be  given  the  opportunity  to  evaluate  this  proposed  development  based  on 
accurate  data.  It  would  be  irresponsible  of  us  as  citizens  and  planners  to  accept  this 
document  as  written,  in  my  opinion.  The  only  reasonable  action  as  a  conclusion  to  the 
information  submitted  is  to  accept  the  Alternate  A  or  Alternate  B  as  described  on  pages 
116,117,  or  to  request  of  the  project  sponsor  a  complete  re-submittal  of  the 
Environmental  Impact  Report  with  accurate  and  up  to  date  information  and  data. 
I  respectfully  ask  that  you  reject  the  findings  contained  within  the  Draft  EIR  document. 
Thank  you  for  your  consideration. 


415  821.6307  v 
415.550.7432  f 


E-50 


E-51 


E-52 


m 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 
RECEIVED 

JUL  0  2  213 

PLANNING  DEPT 


Date  

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 


Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


on  & 


Sinceflely, 

W 


Signature/ 


Printed  Name: 


Address: 


m 


E-53 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

RECEIVED 

JUL  1  6  2003 

PLANNING  DEP1 


>nmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
49 1  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bemal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


163 


'<~^Lt  V^U- 


cerely, 


J 


0 


Signature 


Printed  Name 
Address 


E-54 


Date:  "^'ID1  63  Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 

1660  Mission  Street  •  RECEIVED 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

JUL  1  6  2903 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS  PLANNKNG  DEPT 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned.  A/x^ 

£~  h*/t  2-  5/)W/  child***  ci^d         /*  8*"**/ 


3 


M  </olJ<v  *f>  ^y  6"~)  *° 

tuiXy\koodAQ  <K    {fW*f**    Across  4t^JA   c  -fa*  ^jvtctS 


Printed  Name: 


Address: 


E-55 


Date: 


0 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

RECEIVED 

JUL  1 1  20113 

PLANNING  DEPT 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  < 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


113 


163 


Sincerely,  . 


Signature 

Printed  Name:  /Md^  htj^TgAgj 
Address:  &lsvfer¥h  gjr 


E-56 


28 


157 


80 


Date: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


RECEIVED 

JUL  0  2  2.13 

PLANNING  DEP7 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 


Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


'1 


(W>--fe    do     wrtr    tifouUU  m 


QOf     COMMON  i  i<4  -~  "-fheoj  <jp 

tfzwe  S)tpof     vJd{  not 


or 


our    bc&J  UAun^ 


(5 


Sincerely, 
^Signature  < 

Printed  Name: 


^    do    ncTT  s<ffoft~~ 


id 


Address :_ 


16\ 


1^57 


.  i  um-ciien  rranK 


Page  001   of  001 


163 
113 

125 
113 


July  10,  2003 

Planning  Commission  of  San  Francisco 
City  Hall 

Re:  Proposed  Home  Depot  on  Bayshore  Blvd. 
Dear  Commissioners: 


We  wish  to  tell  you  that  we  strongly  oppose  the  above  "big  box"  type  store. 


It  will  lead 


to  major  traffic  congestion  along  Bayshore  Blvd.,  the  freeway  entrances  nearby  and 
especially  in  Bemal  Heights  along  Cortland  Street. 


We  are  concerned  about  air  quality  as  well,  as  is  BAAQMD.  All  those  cars  visiting  this 
store  will  create  a  serious  increase  in  pollution  harmful  to  especially  to  children,  the 
elderly  and  persons  with  lung  problems. 


Muni  riders  will  experience  increased  delays. 

The  parking  garage  won't  be  able  to  handle  all  the  cars  coming  to  that  store. 
Please  do  not  allow  this  Home  Depot  here. 


Sincerely, 

Ellen  M.  Frank  and  Joseph  Majer,  Registered  Voters. 


243  Holyoke  St. 

San  Francisco,  CA  94134 


E-58 


Date:    7*  5  "°  3  Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 
Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 

Environmental  Review  Officer  RECEIVED 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department  OTilo 
1660  Mission  Street  JUL  "  O  ZOUO 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103  PLANING  DEPT 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer. 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 

\      liVQ>    cr-rv     G^v-~V\tv^c^  ^vxct     -fe/vvx   v>C^y  c^r^tfe^— 

VU<^  oonna     Nuo^   V^U^y,  G^^-v    P^^-  ^^U,^ 

[A/ovA        Vacs-    ^    t>  p^-o 


Sincerely, 
Signature 


Printed  Name:     g^j  g^WW 
Address:  O-^l^cj  /  ^    WoQ  1 

^4110 


E-59 


To:  Tammy  Chan/CTYPLN/SFGOV@SFGOV,  Bill 
Wycko/CTYPLN/SFGOV@SFGOV,  Linda 
Avery/CTYPLN/SFGOV®  SFGOV 

cc: 

Subject:  Fwd:  Cortland  Merchants  Association,  RE:  Home  Depot  &  Planning 
Department 

 Message  from  MWGrafton@aol.com  on  Tue,  1  Jul  2003  23:18:15  EDT  — 

To:  Paul.Maltzer@sfgov.org 
Subject  Cortland  Merchants  Association,  RE:  Home  Depot  &  Planning 

:  Department 
July  1,  2003 

Paul  E.  Maltzer 

Environmental  Review  Officer 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department 

1660  Mission  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA.  94103 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer, 

The  Cortland  Merchants  Association  (CMA)  is  unanimously  opposed  to  the  1 53,000  SF  Home  Depot 
Project.  

We  are  confident  that  you  will  not  approve  any  plan  that  would  ,  "exceed  the  Bay  Area  Air  Quality 
Management  District  established  threshold  of  significance  of  80  pounds  per  day  for  emissions  of  reactive 
organic  gases  (ROG)  and  would  be  considered  to  have  a  significant  adverse  environmental  effect  on  air 
quality."  I  (Pg.  91,  DEIR,  Home  Depot,  3/29/03) 

The  CMA  also  realize  that  it  would  be  short-sighted  and  poor  planning  indeed  to  approve  the  140,000  SF 
project,  effectively  exhausting  the  environmental  criteria  so  as  to  prevent  the  predictable  development  of 
future  sites  along  Bayshore  Boulevard.  This  would  deny  the  future,  like  eating  the  seed  corn. 
The  real  issue  before  you  is  an  evaluation  of  the  other  proposed  alternatives.  Can  any  smaller  project  still 
be  fully  mitigated?  At  what  cost  to  the  immediately  adjacent  communities,  the  city,  and  the  developer? 
Before  you  deliberate  this  decision,  we  would  ask  that  you  be  mindful  of  the  impact  upon  our  friendly, 
artsy,  diverse,  liberal...  small  town  within  the  big  city.  The  friendliness  and  familiarity  of  our  locally  owned 
neighborhood-serving  businesses  are  a  source  of  pride  in  our  association.  We  are  re-  emerging  into  a  "go 
to"  neighborhood,  with  new  restaurants  and  businesses. 

And  we  are  having  growth  pains.  The  Cortland  Merchants  Association  (CMA)  is  already  responding  to 
concerns  about  parking,  traffic  calming,  inadequate  street  lighting,  unpainted  pedestrian  school  crossings, 
sidewalk  cleaning,  tree  planting,  and  neighborhood  beautification.  These  issues  are  our  priorities. 
We  respectfully  request  that  you  not  approve  any  plan  that  would  disproportionately  further  burden  our 
community.  Not  only  our  quality  of  life,  but  the  character  of  our  community  is  in  jeopardy.  We  ask  you  to 
protect  the  nature  and  character  of  our  community  as  vigilantly  as  our  air  quality  standards. 
On  the  other  hand,  we  support  a  (generic)  development  of  the  site.  Any  development  of  this  site  should 
require  that  we  all ,  and  by  "we  all"  I  mean:  the  Bernal  Heights  community  (residents,  merchants, 
customers,  religious  and  community  organizations),  the  other  San  Francisco  communities,  the  San 
Francisco  Planning  Department,  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  Board  of  Superisors  and 
Administration,  and,  of  course,  the  developer,  need  to  come  to  a  written  agreement  that  Bernal  Heights 
and  Bayview  deserve  priority  access  to  funds  and  programs  regarding  traffic  calming,  parking,  affordable 
housing,  jobs  and  neighborhood  beautification.  We  are  the  immediate  communities.  Help  us  move 
farther  toward  the  realization  of  our  goals  as  already  defined.  Help  us  preserve  and  protect  the 
neighborhood  that  we  cherish.  Let's  work  together  for  our  mutual  benefit. 

Respectfully, 

Michael  Grafton  &  David  Ayoob,  Co-Presidents 


Tammy  Chan 

07/02/03  10:45  AM 


E-60 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Date 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE.  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


RECEIVED 
JUL  1  4  20€3 

PLANNING  DEPT 


Sincerely,  (  ]    /-_/./  /-) 


Printed  Name:  JojQj^^iJjS^y 
Address:       /   ^V^O  4 

Cr  / 


E-61 


Date:     A  JUj  &i  ./IXC?  Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer  RECEIVED 
Environmental  Review  Officer 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department  JUL  i  1  £$i$ 

1660  Mission  Street  pj  mmQ  DEPT 

San  Francisco,  CA  94 103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned.  /\ 


125 


<^il0\t^.  tel.  Mj^  +U^^>^h# 


Sincerel 


Printed  Name 


Address: 


/>  rns. 


E-62 


July  9th  2003 

Mr  Paul  Maltzer 

Enviromental  Review  Officer 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department 

1660  Mission  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103 


Dear  Mr  Maltzer: 


I  am  a  resident  of  Bernal  Heights  and  would  like  to  comment  on  the  Environmental 
Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  As  I 
live  on  the  eastern  part  of  Bernal  Heights  I  am  a  frequent  user  of  Cortland  Ave  and 
Bayshore  Blvd  as  pedestrian,  driver  and  Muni  rider. 

I  am  totally  opposed  to  the  Home  Depot  project  and  have  studied  the  Draft  EIR  and 
have  the  following  concerns: 

I  disagree  with  two  points  in  Appendix  A,  the  initial  study,  under  Environmental  Effects. 

1.  I  think  the  project  would  have  a  "negative  aesthetic  effect".  It  will  be  a  much  larger 
building  and  completely  devoid  of  any  character  unlike  the  smaller  varied  buildings 
currently  in  that  block  of  Bayshore. 

2.  I  think  the  project  would  "substantially  degrade  or  obstruct  scenic  views".  I  find  the 
views  of  the  Bernal  and  Bayview  hills  scenic  as  I  drive  South  on  Bayshore  or  West  on 
Oakdale  Ave.  This  project  will  obstruct  those  views  and  increase  the  sense  of  being 
hemmed  in  by  endless  walls  of  concrete.  This  project  will  set  a  dangerous  precedent 
and  therefore  make  it  more  likely  that  other  huge  boxlike  structures  will  follow. 

The  following  are  EIR  conclusions  or  estimates  that  are  of  concern  to  me: 


a.  Parking  will  be  affected  and  cars  will  spill  at  peak  times  onto  Bayshore  and  side 
streets.  

b.  Cortland,  being  the  only  substantial  East  West  street  may  have  it's  circulation 
affected.  Cars  will  move  to  other  side  streets.  Cortland  already  becomes  very  slow  at 
peak  times.  The  project  will  exacerbate  this  and  create  difficulty  for  cars  trying  to 
enter  Cortland  from  Side  Streets. 

c.  The  bus  stop  south  of  cortland  on  the  east  side  of  Bayshore  will  be  affected  as 
trucks  pulling  out  will  block  the  northbound  lanes  of  Bayshore  causing  delay  for  the 
buses.  

d.  Southbound  trucks  turning  from  Bayshore  into  Cortland  will  have  to  cross  the  center 
divider  and  cause  a  hazard.  Parking  spaces  will  be  eliminated  to  accommodate  them. 

e.  Freeway  onramps  that  are  currently  graded  C  will  all  go  to  F  by  2015.  One  onramp  is 
already  at  F  so  it  will  worsen  too  but  is  already  at  the  worst  grade  now.  This  EIR 
does  not  take  into  account  the  cumulative  effect  of  potentially  more  large 
development  on  this  corridor. 


RECEIVED 

JUL  1 1  2063 

PLANNING  DEPT 


E-63 


f.  This  project  does  not  meet  air  quality  standards.  It  should  be  rejected  on  that  point 
alone.  This  is  the  21st  century  when  are  we  going  to  stop  approving  unsustainable 
car  dependent  urban  planning  and  begin  focusing  on  transit  friendly  urban 
development  instead,  This  corner  is  very  well  served  by  a  number  of  different  bus 
lines.  

g.  The  new  signals  at  the  intersection  of  Cortland  and  Bayshore  will  go  through  an 
extra  cycle  to  let  traffic  turning  into  the  garage.  This  will  mean  longer  waits  for 
residents  entering  Bayshore  from  Cortland. 


Points  of  concern  that  were  not  addresseed  by  the  EIR: 


1.  There  was  no  study  of  the  offramps  in  the  area  and  how  the  increased  traffic  on  the 
streets  will  affect  those.  Will  this  back  up  onto  the  freeways  themselves? 

2.  There  was  no  study  of  morning  rush  hour  patterns  and  whether  the  early  opening  of 
the  store  and  it's  use  by  contractors  will  coincide  with  the  morning  commute. 
Bayshore  Blvd  becomes  very  slow  in  the  morning  commute  hours  and  is  sure  to  be 
affected  by  added  vehicular  traffic. 

3.  There  was  no  mention  of  the  fact  that  trucks  will  be  diverted  to  Bayshore  during  the 
construction  of  the  rail  line  on  Third  Ave.  This  is  sure  to  exacerbate  the  traffic 
situation 


Bernal  Heights  is  a  neighborhood  of  particularly  narrow  streets.  The  added  traffic  to 
these  streets  will  be  a  hazard  to  pedestrians  and  drivers  alike.  There  is  a  Senior  Center 
on  Cortland  Ave  and  an  active  program  for  frail  elders  in  the  neighborhood.  There  have 
already  been  injury  accidents  to  frail  seniors  in  the  Cortland  area.  This  can  only  get 
worse  as  drivers  impatient  with  long  waits  fail  to  wait  at  pedestrian  crosswalks. 


I  urge  you  to  reject  this  proposed  project.  I  am  certain  we  can  do  better  than  Home 
Depot  at  this  site. 


San  Francisco,  CA  94110 


E-64 


Date: 


3ML 


CO 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


113 


163 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 


RECEIVED 


JUL  1 


PLANNING  DEPT 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bemal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


»   J       I        ■  ■  -  ^   M^x  i  -  1  ^ 

0£  r>W_  cnr^JL  <K  ' 


4  \^w^rvfe-  ^miUWLiAi  (iXob^Mjks)   Tk&^jL  ay\ji  AjJt&Ab^  ho 

^  kmlJL.  PW^j  W"/ 


Signature  / 


Printed  Name: 


Address: 


 U-/- 


4 


157 


4^  ^  <j'<>^ 


E-65 


San  Bruno  Avenue 


MERCHANTS 


ASSOCIATION 


July  10,  2003 


San  Francisco  Planning  Commission 
1660  Mission  Street,  Suite  500 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

To:  Commissioner  Shelley  Bradford-Bell,  President,  and  Commissioners,  at  large 
cc:  Office  of  District  9  Supervior,  Tom  Ammiano 

Office  of  Disrict  10  Supervior,  Sophie  Maxwell 
Re:  Proposed  Home  Depot  project  /  Environmental  Impact  Report 

Dear  Commissioners, 


Phillip  Guan 
PRESIDENT 

Bernard  Wong 
VICE  PRESIDENT 

Terezinha  Jusino 
SECRETARY 

Rose  Ageus 
TREASURER 


We  write  to  you  as  representatives  of  the  "San  Bruno  Avenue  Merchants  Association",  to  express 
our  support  for  the  Home  Depot  project  proposed  for  Bayshore  Boulevard  /  Waterloo  Street  site  in 
San  Francisco,  California. 

As  executive  officers  of  the  Merchants  Association  we  are  in  a  unique  position  to  offer  insights  into 
the  potential  impact  of  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  to  our  community's  robust  commerical  strip. 

For  your  reference  the  San  Bruno  Avenue  commerical  corridor  is  in  the  Portola-Silver  Terrace 
neighborhood,  directly  south  and  adjacent  to  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  site.  San  Bruno 
Avenue,  which  has  two  southbound  (US-1 01)  freeway  off-ramps  that  access  customer  traffic  flow 
directly  through  our  neighborhood  towards  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  Home  Depot  site,  faces  a 
potential  of  inceased  traffic  impact  problems  to  an  already  heavily  congested  commercial  strip. 
However,  we  at  the  Merchants  Association  believe  that  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project's  design 
considerations  regarding  traffic  and  parking  issues  will  adequately  accommodate  any  potential  traffic 
increase,  thereby,  minimizing  any  adverse  impact  to  our  community. 

Additionally  based  upon  our  own  research,  it  is  the  view  of  our  Merchants  Association  that  the  Home 
Depot  project  will  in  no  way  negatively  impact  the  competitive  viability  of  our  existing  businesses 
operating  on  our  San  Bruno  Avenue  commerical  corridor,  but  rather  the  proposed  store  can  serve  as 
a  significant  local  anchor  store,  potentially  drawing  in  a  broader  customer  base  in  a  spill  over  effect, 
further  advancing  our  vision  of  developing  San  Bruno  Avenue  into  a  regional  shopping  destination. 

We,  in  fact,  look  forward  to  establishing  a  fruitful  and  committed  community  partnership  between  our 
San  Bruno  Avenue  Merchants  and  Home  Depot.  We,  accordingly,  strongly  recommend  that  you 
allow  the  Home  Depot  project  proposed  for  Bayshore  Boulevard  /  Waterloo  Street  site  in  San 
Francisco,  California,  to  move  forward. 


Sincerely, 
Phillip  Gua 


President 

San  Bruno  Avenue  Merchants  Association 

(415)  806-0577 


received  at  cpc  hearing 
S/wji 

(  ft  £l///J/  V) 


E-66 


Date: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 


RECEIVED 

JUL  0  3  2003 

PLANNING  DEPT 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


J4MAJ  a^~^  /y^ 


lature 


Printed  Name: 
Address: 


E-67 


RECEIVED 


July  5,  2003 


JUL  0  9  20C3 


PLANNING  DEPT 


Mr.  Paul  Meltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

Re:  EIR  Public  Comments 

Dear  Mr.  Meltzer: 

We  are  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report 
for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  on  Bayshore  Blvd. 
We  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project)as|it  will  have  irreversible 
negative  impacts  on  surrounding  intersections  and  neighborhoods. 
The  report  says  many  intersections  will  be  affected  negatively  even  as 
far  away  as  Mission  and  30th'  With  mitigations  including  traffic  lights, 
this  intersection  will  still  be  a  huge  mess. 

If  you  are  familiar  with  Bernal  Heights  you  know  that  many  streets  are 
narrow  and  cannot  handle  the  additional  traffic  such  a  popular  big  box 
store  would  create. 
Thank  you  for  hearing  our  concerns. 

Sincerely, 


Judge  Auffinger 

222  Cortland  Ave 

San  Francisco,  CA  94110 


E-68 


SUE  C.  HESTOR 

Attorney  at  Law 
870  Market  Street,  Suite  1128  •  San  Francisco,  CA  94102 
(415)  362-2778  •  FAX  (415)  362-8048 


July  10,    2  003 


Tammy  Chan 

Planning  Department 

1660  Mission  Street  5th  fl 

San  Francisco  CA  94103 


RECEIVED 


I  6  2003 


JUL 

PLANNING  DEPT 


(RECEIVED 
JUL  1  fi  2003 

CiTY  &  COUNTY  OF  S.F. 

DEPT.  OF  CITY  PLANNING 
ADMINISTRATION 


RE:     2001.0062E  -  Home  Depot  DEIR  -  Comments  set  #1 
Dear  Tammy: 

I  am  submitting  the  following  comments  on  the  Home  Depot  DEIR  on 
behalf  of  Cole  Hardware. 


Cover  photo  -  there  is  no  comparable  photo  of  the  project  anywhere 


in  the  EIR.     A  photo  that  superimposes  the  project  on  the  real 
site  should  be  included.      INCLUDING  ANY  SIGNAGE.     Please  provide. 


Page  2  5 


Why  does  sponsor's  objectives  to  construct   "standard-sized"  Home 
Depot  limit  the  analysis  of  a  smaller  Home  Depot.      In  my  4/8/02 
scoping  comments    (attached  hereto) ,    I  requested  an  analysis  of  an 
Urban  model  Home  Depot,   one  which  is  approximately  50,000  sq  ft 
and  is  tailored  to  the  urban  market.     Home  Depot  is  constructing 
such  stores  in  other  large  cities.     Such  a  smaller  Home  Depot  is 
not  analyzed.     To  the  contrary,   based  on  testimony  at  today's 
hearing,   Home  Depot  has  instead  determined  to  build  one  of  its 
LARGEST  stores  on  this  congested,   non-suburban  site.  Define 
"standard-sized"    -   including  amount  of  parking. 

Commercial  uses   "similar  to  those  previously  operated  on  the  site" 
is  a  stretch.     Home  Depot  is  one  of  the  largest  retail  companies 
in  the  country.      It  does  national  TV  advertising  on  such  venues  as 
the  Superbowl .     No  store  previously  on  that  site  did  that  kind  of 
advertising,   nor  had  the  ability  to  undercut  and  thereby  demolish 
its  competitors.     Whole  Earth  had  clothing,    shoes,   books,   and  soft 
goods,   as  well  as  a  range  of  appliances,   TVs,    stereos,  cameras, 
and  similar  goods . 


Objective  4  -  are  the  "good  and  services"  not  available  in  SF,  or 
are  the  "competitive  prices"  not  available  in  SF? 

Objective  8  -  why  only  meeting  goal  of  Redevelopment  Plan  in 
process  and  not  also  Planning  Department's  proposed  plan  and 
rezoning  of  this  industrial  site? 


E-69 


July  10,   2  003   -  Home  Depot  DEIR  -  page  2 


Page  26 


Why  is  this  project  covering  nearly  100%  (95%?  98%?)  of  its  lot  - 
virtually  no  green  space  or  buffer  around  it?  Why  do  much  a  hard 
edge?     Is  this  how  Home  Depot  sees  San  Francisco? 


What  happened  to  the  study  to  relocate  the  main  vehicular  entrance 
to  this  store?     The  public  was  told  that,    to  mitigate  the  impacts 
of  traffic  at  the  entrance/exit,    there  was  an  effort  to  relocate 
the  MAIN  entrance  to  Loomis.     Why  is  the  main  entrance  still  a 
straight  line  extension  of  Cortland  Street  -  when  that  street  will 
absorb  much  of  the  negative  impacts  of  the  project  traffic? 


There  is  no  delineation  of  how  many,  and  what  kind,  of  parking 
spaces  are  on  each  floor,  only  a  total  of  550  spaces.  Provide 
detail . 


Please  explain  seismic  safety  of  tilt-up  concrete  walls  with  a 
concrete  slab  floor  on  seismically  unstable  fill.  Particularly 
with  heavy  merchandise  that  is  stacked  high  above  the  floor  on 
shelves.     Home  Depot  has  had  merchandise  toppling  on  staff  and 
customers  WHEN  THERE  WAS  NO  EARTHQUAKE.     Please  detail  how,  when, 
those  accidents  occurred.     How  do  the  risks  increase  on  this  fill 
site  on  unstable  land? 


Page  27  and  similar  maps 


Streets  are  shown  north  of  HD  crossing  under  101.     ELIMINATE  FROM 
ALL  MAPS  STREETS  THAT  DO  NOT  EXIST  even  if  they  are  mapped 
somewhere  as  vestiges  before  101  was  built.     We  do  not  show 
streets  under  the  Bay  as  though  they  exist.     This  is  no 
different . 


Please  show  on  one  map  the  parcels  in  the  immediate  area  of  Home 
Depot  and  their  ownership.     One  of  the  applicants  for  this  project 
is  Joan  Goodman  Zimmerman.     She  owns  MANY  of  the  lots/blocks 
around  this  site,   including  those  east  of  Loomis  and  south  of 
Waterloo.     As  an  applicant,   Ms.   Zimmerman  should  be  required  to 
provide  the  following  information  under  oath  - 

Any  discussions  she  has  had  with  potential  buyers  or  tenants 
on  those  parcels,  particularly  if  there  has  been  any  sort  of 
written  agreement.       Nature  of  business,   size  proposed. 

Ms.   Zimmerman  also  has  financial  stakes  in  several  home 
improvement  businesses,  which  will  be  competitors  to  Home 
Depot.     She  has  already  acted  in  a  manner  that  resulted  in 
closing  her  family's  business,   Goodman  Lumber.     She  owns  land 
on  which  a  lumber  yard  is/has  been  located  across  from  the 
Home  Depot  site.     How  much  longer  is  there  on  that  lease? 
What  are  her  intentions  regarding  continued  operation  of- 


E-70 


July  10,    2003   -  Home  Depot  DEIR  -  page  3 


that  business?     Ms.   Zimmerman  is  also  part    (1/3)   owner  of 
Discount  Builders  on  Mission  across  from  the  Planning 
Department.     Does  she  contemplate  allowing  that  business  to 
continue?     Please  provide  information  on  any  financial  stake 
in  a  home  improvement  business  in  San  Francisco. 


Page  28  -  site  plan 

If  a  person  parks  on  Loomis  Street,    for  example,   because  they 
don't  want  to  queue  for  the  garage,  where  will  they  be  able  to 
enter  through  a  pedestrian  entrance?     How  many  feet  of  walking 
would  it  if  they  parked  at  the  "Loomis  Avenue"   legend  on  the 
drawing?     Do  they  have  to  walk  all  around  to  the  "pedestrian 
access?"     What  amount  of  entry/exit  traffic  will  they  have  to  walk 
thru  to  get  to  that  point?     How  hazardous  will  it  be  if  they  walk 
in  one  of  the  "vehicle  access"  driveways?     When  Goodman  was  in 
operation,   customers  and  employees  ROUTINELY  parked  on  Bayshore, 
Loomis,  Waterloo  and  other  nearby  streets  when  the  lots  were  full, 
during  times  of  big  sales,   or  simply  because  a  curb  space  was 
available.     How  much  curb  parking  is  available  in  a  300'   radius  of 
this  site?     What  streets  will  people  be  coming  down?     what  is  the 
condition  of  the  sidewalks? 

Why  is  there  no  direct  access  into  the  store,   only  a  pedestrian 
entrance  FROM  THE  GARAGE?     Aren't  those  PARKING  SPACES  along  the 
pedestrian  path  in  what  is  labelled  "seasonal  sales  area?" 


How  much  parking  on  this  floor?     What  types?     How  wide  is 
Waterloo?     What  is  its  traffic  capacity,    if  people  will  be  turning 
left  into  the  "vehicle  access"   for  HD?     If  there  is  development  on 
the  south  side  of  the  street,   i.e.   a  Pier  One  imports,   how  will 
traffic  on  Waterloo  be  affected? 


Page  2  9  - 


Ground  Floor 


Where  does  the  "down"  ramp  touch  down? 

How  wide  are  the  "in"  and  "out"  lanes?     One  lane  or  two  to  the 
upper  floor?     Please  "blow  up"  the  garage  rendering  and  show  the 
paths  of  travel  for: 

pedestrians,   including  those  walking  to  cars  on  this  floor 

cars  trying  to  access  handicapped  parking 

cars  coming  to  "loading" 

cars  entering  -  for  EACH  "vehicle  access" 
cars  leaving  -  for  EACH  "vehicle  access" 


E-71 


July  10,   2  003   -  Home  Depot  DEIR  -  page  4 


Please  put  numbers  -  of  pedestrians,  vehicles  -  coming  into  HD 
building,   and  into  each  area   (e.g.  "loading") 

What  level  of  pedestrian  traffic  on  sidewalks  in  front  of  the  3 
"vehicle  access?" 

What  cars  are  expected  to  park  on  this  floor?     Is  it  first  come, 
first  park?     At  any  point  during  the  day?     If  not,   how  will  it  be 
controlled?     Will  people  entering  the  main  entrance  be  allowed  to 
turn  left    (at  the  two  breaks)    to  access  that  parking?     What  is  the 
queuing  capacity  INSIDE  THE  BUILDING  if  the  ramp  is  backed  up? 
How  would  cars  coming  in  the  3  entrances  MERGE  on  this  floor? 
How  would  it  be  insured  that  traffic  does  not  back  up  into 
Bayshore  at  the  main  vehicle  access  entrance?     Won't  there  be 
interference  with  pedestrians  crossing  through  that  traffic  to 
access  parking  spaces  towards  Waterloo? 


Explain  arrows  for  3  lanes  leaving  the  garage.     One  right  onto 
Bayshore?     One  straight  ahead  onto  Cortland?     One  left  onto 
Bayshore?     Will  this  exiting  pattern  be  controlled  by  a  Cortland/ 
Bayshore  signal  phase?     Can  right  turns  occur  at  any  time? 


Page  3  0 


Second  Level  -  How  many  parking  spaces  on  this  level? 


Page  31  j  Third  Level  -  How  many  parking  spaces  on  this  level? 
Who  will  see  this  roof?     Is  it  higher  than  the  freeways? 
What  will  a  trellis  along  the  periphery  screen,   particularly  for 
areas  that  see  the  project  from  above,   rather  than  "across?" 


Page  32 


Elevations 


These  are  the  only  renderings  of  the  project  and  --  because  of  the 
massive  length  of  the  proposed  project  --  are  so  tiny  as  to  be 
unreadable.     Even  if  it  takes  a  foldout,   renderings  that  are 
readable  should  be  included  showing  how  this  project  will  fit  into 
its  context  and  be  seen  at  various  perspectives.     These  are  not 
real  perspectives,  but  architects  renderings.     It  is  impossible  to 
see  "people"  here  -  unless  they  are  the  two  dots  over  the  exiting 
car  in  the  top  drawing.     Please  also  point  out  where  the  building 
is  going  to  "slump"   14"  over  30  years  as  the  fill  which  will  be 
added  subsides   (p.  A- 18) . 


WON'T  HOME  DEPOT  HAVE  A  LARGE  ELEVATED  SIGN?     PLEASE  SHOW  IT. 


Page  33  -  Approval  requirements 


There  is  a  possible  appeal  of  the  EIR  to  the  Board  of  Supervisors. 
Will  the  Commission  act  before  that  appeal  is  considered? 


E-72 


July  10,    2003   -  Home  Depot  DEIR  -  page  5 


Page  34 


Please  explain  the  relation  of  this  project  to  the  Redevelopment 
Agency  and  the  Agency's  role  thereon. 


Priority  policies  include  "preservation  and  enhancement  of 
neighborhood- serving  retail  uses,"  and  "protection  of  neighborhood 
character."     Throughout  the  City  locally-owned  neighborhood 
hardware,   nurseries,   and  home  improvement  stores  are  vital  parts 
of  NC  districts.     What  assumptions  are  being  made  about  whether 
those  stores  will  continue?  |  Home  Depot  has  a  history  of  coming 


into  an  area,   pricing  its  goods  so  that  they  undercut  neighboring 
hardware  stores  and  within  a  few  years  they  are  all  out  of 
business . 


Does  the  patronage/traffic  assumptions  for  THIS  store  assume  a 
shift  of  the  business  currently  handled  in  neighborhood  shopping 
areas  TO  this  Home  Depot?     How  much  of  a  shift?     How  has  this 
affected  increases  of  traffic  OUT  of  the  neighborhood  shopping 
area  to  Bayshore  &  Cortland?     If  the  assumptions  DO  NOT  INCLUDE 
such  a  shift,   what  would  be  the  affect,   particularly  on  increased 
traffic,    if  Home  Depot  undercut    (at  least  for  a  time)  neighborhood 
hardware,   nurseries  and  home  improvement  stores  such  that  most  of 
them  went  out  of  business? 


Page  3  5 


scoping 


On  A-17,  /this  EIR  scoped  out  the  issue  of  Utilities/Public 
Services  -   "substantially  increase  demand  for  schools,  recreation 
or  other  public  facilities. "     Home  Depot  and  WalMart  are  the  two 
dominant  big  box  retailers.       Both  of  them  are  so  ant i -union  that 
they  have  no  unionized  facilities.     Both  of  them  manipulate  the 
hours  of  their  work  force  so  that  most  workers  are  part  time  and 
do  not  have  enough  hours  to  earn  benefits. 

The  Chronicle  reported  on  a  recent  study  done  by  a  Southern 
California  city  where  a  WalMart  was  proposed  to  be  built.  The 
study  analyzed  the  shift  to  City/County  coffers  of  the 
responsibility  for  medical  and  social  services  for  underpaid, 
uninsured  workers.     Costs  that,   instead  of  being  borne  by  the 
employer,   were  put  on  the  City. 

Home  Depot  has  many  stores  in  the  Bay  Area.     Please  require  the 
following  information  - 

How  many  total  employees  in  2002? 

How  many  of  them  worked  an  average  of  3  5  hours  week? 

How  many  hours  have  to  be  worked  for  an  employee  to  get 
health  insurance? 


E-73 


July  10,   2  003   -  Home  Depot  DEIR  -  page  6 


Do  they  provide  transit  passes  or  otherwise  subsidize  transit 
usage  by  their  employees?     Do  they  provide  free  parking  for 
their  employees? 

How  many  hours  have  to  be  worked  to  get  full  employee 
benefits? 

What  average  weekly  income  for  persons  in  lowest  2  0%,  next 
20%,   middle  20%,   next  20%,   highest  20%? 

Using  that  information,   the  City  should  estimate  how  much  of  the 
cost  of  health  services  will  be  borne  by  the  City. 

Both  Goodman  and  Whole  Earth  employees  were  relatively  well 
compensated  and  had  access  to  health  care.     Compare  to  this  non- 
unionized  large  corporation. 


Employee  Transit  policy  issues 

Will  Home  Depot  be  required  to  sell  transit  passes?     Will  Home 
Depot  be  required  to  have  a  policy  encouraging  transit  usage?  How 
will  this  be  implemented?     The  assumption  in  this  EIR  is  that  all 
employees  will  drive.     Please  discuss  how  this  does  not  meet  CITY 
GOALS  and  policies. 


Day  Labor  facilities 

At  various  points  in  the  discussion  of  day  labor  facilities,  the 
Home  Depot  site  was  mentioned  as  a  possible  location  for  day 
laborers  to  come  to  connect  with  persons  looking  to  hire  day 
laborers.     Has  Home  Depot  been  in  ANY  discussions  about  this 
issue?     If  day  laborers  were  to  be  located  in  this  area,  where 
would  they  be  sited?     If  there  was  no  formal  location,   but  people 
came  anyway,   they  would  presumably  be  on  Bayshore .     How  would 
their  presence  affect  traffic  flow  and  assumptions  of  congestion? 


This  is  my  first  written  submission. 


Sue  C.  Hestor 


cc :     Rick  Karp 


E-74 


SUE  C.  HESTOR 

Attorney  at  Law 

870  Market  Street,  Suite  1128  •  San  Francisco,  CA  94102 
(415)  362-2778  •  FAX  (415)  362-8048 

RECEIVED 

July  11,  2003 

JUL  1  fi  2003 

Tammy  Chan  COUNTY  OF  S  F 

Planning  Department 

„•       ■         p.         4-    r-t-u    t=i  DEPT.  OF  C  TY  PLANNING 

1660  Mission  Street  5th  fl  ^MINISTRATION 
San  Francisco  CA  94103 

RE:      2001.0062E  -  Home  Depot  DEIR  -  Comments  set  #2 


Dear  Tammy: 

This  is  my  second  set  of  comments  on  the  Home  Depot  DEIR  on  behalf 
of  Cole  Hardware . 

Pages  35,   37  -  Land  Use 


There  is  a  difference  between  a  neighborhood  and  a  planning  area. 
The  industrial  area  in  which  this  site  is  situated  is  between  two 
neighborhoods  -  Bernal  Heights  and  Bayview  Hunters  Point  -  and  is 
near  another  neighborhood  -  Portola. 

Please  explain  all  of  the  planning  studies  underway  for  this  site, 
including  that  of  the  Planning  Department.     That  Department  has 
released  3  alternative  development  scenarios  for  the  Bayshore 
corridor.     They  involve  zoning  which  allows  big  box  facilities  the 
length  of  Bayshore  between  Jerrold  and  Highway  2  80.  One 
alternative  is  two  blocks  deep.     This  rezoning  proposal  must  be 
discussed  since  it  has  a  major  impact  on  cumulative  development 
and  cumulative  traffic.       In  other  words,   there  is  more  than  the 
Redevelopment  Concept  Plan  at  work  here. 


The  Redevelopment  Agency  cannot  designate  a  redevelopment  area 
without  a  finding  of  blight.     They  have  not  yet  made  such  a 
finding  for  this  area.     Although  Ms.   Zimmerman  has  (apparently 
consciously)    allowed  this  site,   and  her  adjacent  properties  to 
deteriorate,   ironically  the  development  of  this  site  with  a  Home 
Depot  may  adversely  affect  the  Agency's  ability  to  make  a  finding 
of  blight  and  therefore  put  this  site  into  a  Redevelopment  area. 
If  that  does  not  occur,   the  zoning  pursuant  to  the  Planning  Code 
will  be  operative. 


Is  the  building  supply  company  south  of  Waterloo  in  fact  closed? 
It  does  not  appear  to  be.     The  store  across  Bayshore,   north  of 
Cortland,    is  called  "Floorcraf t . " 


Page  36  -  map 


Again,   eliminate  those  streets  crossing  101  north  of  this  site. 
They  do  not  exist.     Also,   make  sure  the  "streets"  shown  under  the 


E-75 


July  11,    2003   -  Home  Depot  DEIR  -  page  2 


101/280  interchange  in  fact  exist  as  streets.  The  street  pattern 
differs  from  that  on  page  42 . 


Pages  38-39 


photos 


Where  are  the  "after"  photos  that  match  these  "before"  ones?  This 
EIR  is  seriously  lacking  in  explanatory  photos  and  graphics. 
Also,    include  a  photo  showing  the  site  as  it  will  be  seen  coming 
down  Cortland  and  as  it  is  approached  on  101  and  280.  A 
perspective  from  Bayview  would  also  be  helpful.     PLEASE  INCLUDE 
ALL  SIGNAGE   IN  THE   "AFTER"  RENDERINGS. 


Page  40 


Those  facilities  at 


See  my  comments  re  page  2  5  on  prior  uses 

most  had  regional  SF  Bay  advertising,   nearly  all  of  it  in  local 
and  neighborhood  oriented  newspapers.     Home  Depot  is  a  NATIONAL 
advertiser  which  probably  spends  hundreds  of  millions  dollars  on 
television  and  other  national  advertising,   besides  massive  amounts 
of  money  in  regional  newspapers .     That  level  of  advertising 
generates  much  more  traffic  from  outside  the  immediate  area  of 
this  site. 


The  character  of  this  site  will  change  dramatically  to  visibly  a 
MAJOR  BIG  BOX  SITE.     Where  in  San  Francisco  is  there  a  store 
nearly  800'    in  length  -  with  no  relationship  to  the  street  or 
pedestrians.     This  building  "reads"  as  a  suburban  auto  dependent 
store.     Although  Whole  Earth  and  Goodman  had  a  lot  of  auto 
traffic,    they  also  had  a  lot  of  customers  who  came  on  transit. 
Those  buildings  were  also  of  a  greatly  reduced  scale  compared  to 
Home  Depot.     Please  discuss  how  this  project  turns  the  City's 
transit  first  policies  on  its  ear. 


The  character  of  this  area  would  change  dramatically  because  Home 
Depot  will  be  the  ANCHOR  for  other  Big  Box  facilities, 
particularly  when  Planning  has  already  designated  this  area  for 
big  box.     There  is  NO  PRECEDENT  in  San  Francisco  or  in  the 
immediate  Bay  Area  where  a  single  big  box  facility  is  located  in 
isolation  from  others.     Costco  opened,    followed  by  the  555  9th 
Street  center,    followed  by  the  conversion  of  Canned  Foods  to  Best 
Buy.     Sears  on  Masonic  was  converted  into  a  series  of  stores, 
including  Office  Depot.     The  Standard  Brands  across  Geary  was 
converted  to  a  Trader  Joes.     In  both  of  these  instances,  the 
projects  that  followed  the  initial  anchor  caused  substantial 
traffic  problems.      (In  the  case  of  Trader  Joes,   which  change  in 
use  triggered  no  environmental  evaluation,   the  traffic  problems 
are  so  severe  that  there  must  be  monitors  controlling  access  to 
the  site  because  traffic  backs  up  seriously  on  Masonic.) 

Can  Home  Depot  provide  specific  instances  where  they  have  gone 
into  an  area  zoned  industrial    (or  similar)   as  the  FIRST  big  box 


E-76 


July  11,    2  0  03   -  Home  Depot  DEIR  -  page  3 


store  and  where  after  5  years  there  were  not  other  big  box  or 
large  commercial  facilities  within  a  1/2  mile? 


The  "policy"   list  is  so  much  eyewash.     There  is  absolutely  no 
analysis  of  any  of  this,   NOR  DOES  THE  EIR  PROVIDE  INFORMATION  WITH 
WHICH  TO  DO  THE  ANALYSIS.     For  example,   page  41,    Policy  6   -  "avoid 
an  overwhelming  or  dominating  appearance  in  new  construction" 
would  reasonably  have  required  renderings  showing  the  appearance 
of  the  project  from  various  perspectives,   but  none  has  been 
provided . 


Paqes  41,   42  - 

Zoning 

Again,  you  ignore  the  Planning  process  underway  at  the  Planning 
Department  for  industrial  zones. 


Please  explain  whether  this  project  will  be  paying  the  JHLP  fee. 
In  its  original  application,   the  sponsor  had  manipulated  the 
square  footage  calculations  so  that  they  would  not  have  to  pay  any 
fee  whatsoever.     Do  they  meet  the  net  new  square  footage  threshold 
for  retail? 


Page  42  - 


Roadway  Network 


Please  explain  the  location  and  amount  of  curb  parking  on 
Bayshore,   Cortland,    Industrial,   Loomis,   Waterloo,   Marengo  and 
Hilton  near  the  project  site.     Are  there  sidewalks?     Since  it  is 
likely  that  customers  will  search  for  on- street  parking  whenever 
there  is  congestion  at  the  garage,   or  when  the  perceive  that  curb 
parking  will  get  them  in  and  out  faster,    it  is  likely  that  people 
will  park  along  those  streets.     Parking  at  those  locations  --  and 
the  pedestrian  impacts  from  that  parking  --  has  not  been  factored 
into  the  analysis  in  this  EIR.     It  must  be  included. 


Please  explain  the  extremely  limited  access  to  Bernal  Heights, 
particularly  from  the  east,   south  east  and  south,    including  that 
Cortland  is  the  only  street  that  goes  from  Mission  to  Bayshore, 
that  north  of  Cortland  the  ONLY  realistic  way  off  Bernal  Hill  is 
"going  over  the  hill"  through  narrow  residential  streets,  to 
access  Folsom  Street.     That  access  to  Alemany  and  the  freeway 
interchange  near  this  site  is  down  Crescent  which  on  Saturdays 
goes  right  through  the  Farmers  Market.     That  if  people  on  Bernal 
can't  go  east  to  get  off  the  hill,   they  will  have  to  figure  out 
ways  of  going  west,   to  Mission  Street  and/or  north  to  Cesar  Chavez 
to  get  to  any  place  on  the  eastern  side  or  northeastern  side  of 
the  City,   or  access  to  the  east  bay. 


Pages  44-48 


Traffic  Operating  Conditions 


The  base  period  for  the  traffic  counts  is  during  a  recession. 
During  the  period  1999-2000,   when  the  dotcom  boom  was  in  full 


E-77 


July  11,    2003   -  Home  Depot  DEIR  -  page  4 


swing  AND  WHEN  COMMERCIAL  SPACES  WERE  OCCUPIED  in  the  South  of 
Market,    Potrero  Hill,   and  Mission,   there  was  substantially  more 
traffic  in  the  Potrero/Bayshore  corridor.     The  current  traffic 
counts  are  based  on  VACANT  COMMERCIAL  BUILDINGS  and  a  dramatic 
drop  in  employment  in  that  area.     Potrero  and  Bayshore  are  used  as 
spillover  routes  to  access  101,   280  and  eastern  neighborhoods  when 
101  and  280  are  congested.     Traffic  counts  done  in  that  area  in 
the  1999/2000  period  show  that  congestion. 

DOES  THIS  EIR  ASSUME  THAT  THOSE  SPACES  WILL  NEVER  BE 
REOCCUPIED  AND  THAT  THE  CURRENT  RECESSION  WILL  CONTINUE  FOR  5 
YEARS?     10  YEARS?     TO  2015?     FOR  ANOTHER  GENERATION? 


If  that  is  NOT  the  assumption,    traffic  levels  must  be  adjusted  to 
include  occupancy  in  the  buildings  which  are  currently  vacant. 
This  is  not  NEW  construction,   but  buildings  which  are  already 
constructed,   for  which  no  further  environmental  evaluation  will  be 
required,   and  for  which  conditions  and  impacts  will  change  simply 
by  tenants  moving  in. 

Were  there  identifiable  trends  in  levels  of  traffic  in  the  spring 
2001,    fall  2001  and  winter  2002  measurements? 


Again,   you  must  include  in  your  cumulative  analysis  NEW 
DEVELOPMENT  -   SUBSTANTIAL  NEW  DEVELOPMENT  -   in  the  Bayshore 
corridor  since  that  is  what  is  PLANNED  for  this  corridor,   and  Home 
Depot  is  assumed  to  be  an  "anchor"  for  new  development. 


Page  50  -  Cortland  traffic  is  impeded  by  current  Muni  movements. 
The  24  bus  goes  up  substantial  hills  on  the  east  and  west  slopes. 
Cars  get  stuck  behind  the  bus  when  it  picks  up/drops  off 
passengers.     In  many  instances  it  is  impossible  to  pull  around  the 
bus,   and  it  may  even  be  dangerous  because  of  obstructed  views. 
As  traffic  increases  and  SLOWS  DOWN,   the  busses  will  also  SLOW 
DOWN.     The  traffic  calming  study  is  partially  intended  to  slow 
down  traffic  to  allow  pedestrians  to  safely  cross  Cortland. 


Page  51  -  Transit  network 


The  24-Divisadero  runs  24  hours  and  is  a  major  connecting  line. 
It  connects  Bernal  Heights  to  3rd  Street  and  will  connect 
Bayview/3rd  Street  light  rail  to  Home  Depot.     When  the  24  has 
massive  problems  and  runs  have  to  be  dropped,   Muni  often  truncates 
service  at  Bayshore,   looping  the  busses  back  on  Hilton  Street.  If 
there  are  problems  on  the  24,    it  is  likely  that  service  to 
Bayview  will  decrease.      (The  long  bus  stop  at  Cortland  and 
Bayshore  may  be  there  because  that  is  the  "end  of  the  line"  during 
owl  service  and  when  service  is  truncated.) 

The  44-0' Shaughnessy  does  not  run  through  Bernal  Heights.  I 
think  you  mean  the  Portola  District  -  on  the  other  side  of  280. 


E-78 


July  11,    2003   -  Home  Depot  DEIR  -  page  5 


98 


99 


86 


92 


86 


55 


Throughout  the  EIR  it  is  state 
that  all  employees  and  custome 
may  be  so  for  calculating  traf 
ADEQUATE  FOR  ANALYZING  IMPACTS 


d  that  it  is  conservative  to  assume 
rs  will  drive  to  Home  Depot.  That 
fic  levels  of  service,    BUT  IT  IS  NOT 
ON  MUNI .  ]    It  is  absurd  to  think 


that  Muni  operations  will  not 
of  traffic  -  including  turning 
Bayshore/lndustrial .  With  inc 
Bayshore  between  Cortland  and 
cut  across  all  those  traffic  1 
Similarly  for  northbound  traff 
not  delay  their  operations?  I 
what  is  the  incremental  cost  o 
peak  hours? 


be  impacted  by  the  increased  amount 
movements  at  Cort land/Bayshore  and 
reased  congestion  on  southbound 
Industrial  how  is  the  24  going  to 
anes  to  be  able  to  make  a  LEFT  turn? 
ic?     Has  Muni  agreed  that  this  will 
f  the  24  runs  starts  taking  longer, 
f  adding  an  additional  bus  during 


Factoring  in  people  walking  from  busses  toward  Home  Depot  and 
other  stories  in  the  area,   making  transfers  between  bus  lines,  AND 
WALKING  FROM  CURB  PARKING,   please  show  on  a  map  pedestrian  flows 
in  this  area,   including  the  traffic  lanes  and  level  of  traffic  in 
those  lanes.     This  should  include  all  entry/exit  points  to  Home 
Depot  since  pedestrians  will  be  walking  in  front  of  those  points. 
Please  factor  in  Home  Depot  employees. 


What  is  Home  Depot's  policy  re  employee  parking  -  where  are  they 
told  they  may  park?     is  the  policy  different  at  different  times  of 
the  year,   during  sales?     What  is  the  estimate  -  by  times  of  day  - 
on  how  many  employee  cars  will  be  at  or  around  the  Home  Depot 
site? 


Page  56  - 


Pedestrians 


Factoring  in  the  above  questions,    it  is  apparent  that  the  auto 


dominant  nature  of  this  project,    in  conjunction  with  project  and 
general  pedestrian  traffic  will  result  in  hazardous  conditions  for 
pedestrians,   PARTICULARLY  since  the  main  entrance  of  the  garage  is 
at  Cortland  and  Bayshore  where  pedestrian  activity  will  peak. 
Cars  scrambling  to  "get  through  on  the  light"   are  particularly 
notorious  for  ignoring  pedestrians.     Also,   will  there  be  glare 
problems  for  cars  exiting,   where  cars  leaving  a  garage  may  have 
problems  seeing  pedestrians,   or  where  cars  entering  a  dim  garage 
may  have  problems  seeing  pedestrians  in  the  garage. 


Please  explain  how  traffic  loops  around  on  Bayshore  and  Hilton  to 
Cortland  and  how  that  loop  serves  both  the  Floorcraft  nursery, 
other  businesses  and  the  Muni.     How  will  service  on  that  loop  be 
impeded  by  backed  up  traffic  on  Cortland? 


" Improvement  s " 


142 


Please  show  on  graphic  renderings  WITH  DIMENSIONS  all  of  the 
proposed  modifications  to  traffic  lanes,   bulbs,    changes  to  Muni 
stops,   changes  to  pedestrian  islands,   and  all  other  similar 


E-79 


July  11,   2  003   -  Home  Depot  DEIR  -  page  6 


changes.     Changes  to  timing  of  signals  also  needs  to  be  shown,  so 
that  the  time  of  various  phases  --  and  the  number  of  cars  who  can 
get  through  turns  on  turn  phases  --  can  be  understood.     Do  a 
"before"  and  "after"  to  make  it  more  accessible.     Either  on  that 
graphic,   or  on  a  separate  graphic,   show  traffic  volumes  at  peak 
periods,   separating  out  expected  turn  lanes.     Show  the  anticipated 
volume  of  pedestrian  traffic  across  those  lanes  -  both  in  the 
street  and  at  all  access  points  for  Home  Depot. 

Will  it  still  be  possible  for  pedestrians  to  stand  on  the  mini- 
traffic  island  in  Bayshore?     What  about  parents  with  small 
children?     seniors?     disabled  persons? 


■Sue  C.  Hestor 


cc : 


Rick  Karp 


E-80 


Sue  Hestor 

<hestor@  earthlink.net 


To:  Tammy._Chan@ci.sf.ca.us 

cc: 

Subject:  Home  Depot  -  toxics  message 


> 


07/16/03  12:20  AM 


July 


15, 


2003 


TO: 

FROM 

RE: 


Tammy  Chan 
Sue  Hestor 
Home  Depot  DEIR 


On  Friday  afternoon,  I  supplemented  my  written  comments  on  the  Home 
Depot  DEIR  by  leaving  you  a  voice  mail  on  one  issue  I  had  forgot  to 
include  in  my  letters.  You  asked  that  I  send  you  an  email  with  the 
same  content.      (I  apologize  for  not  sending  it  yesterday.) 

Before  it  was  the  "Whole  Earth  Access"  site,   and  before  it  was 
Allstate  Plywood,   401  Bayshore  was  an  auto  wrecking  yard,  Hayden 
Auto  Wrecking.       The  statement  on  page  95  states  that  the  site 
"MAY"  have  been  an  auto  wrecking  yard.     It  was,   in  fact,  such. 

Sue  Hestor 


E-81 


June  4,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  Public  Comments 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  ("DEIR")  for  the 
Y  22    ProPosed  Home  Depot  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard  ("project").  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights 
resident  who  opposes  this  project,  because  it  will  cause  substantial,  significant,  and 
irreversible  harm  to  our  neighborhood.  My  response  to  the  DEIR  and  my  objections  to  the 
proposed  project  are  discussed  in  detail  below. 


127 

70 


122 


i. 


The  DEIR  Totally  Fails  to  Consider  Impacts  to  Many  Residents  of 
Bernal  Heights 


The  DEIR  only  specifically  considers  impacts  to  air  quality  on  four  intersections, 
only  one  of  which  is  on  Cortland  Avenue.  DEIR,  Table  9.  It  thus  totally  fails  to  consider  the 
significant  negative  impacts  of  the  additional  air  pollution  from  the  increased  traffic  upon  the 
rest  of  Cortland  Avenue.  Those  impacts  will  be  suffered  by  Bernal  Heights  residents  who 
live  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  Cortland  Avenue,  those  who  live  on  side  streets  near 
Cortland  Avenue,  and  those  who  come  to  the  retail  area  of  Cortland  Avenue  to  shop.  The 
DEIR  also  does  not  consider  the  significant  negative  impact  upon  those  people  of  the 


additional  noise  from  the  increased  traffic, Inor  does  it  consider  the  significant  negative 
impacts  of  additional  traffic  upon  pedestrians  in  the  retail  area  of  Cortland  Avenue,  where 
there  are  far  more  pedestrians  than  at  Cortland  and  Bayshore,  the  area  addressed  by  the  DEIR 
regarding  pedestrian  impacts.  DEIR  at  70. 


Alsojthe  project  is  mischaracterized  as  being  "near  the  eastern  border  of  the  Bernal 


Heights  neighborhood."  DEIR  at  3.  The  site  is  on  the  border  of  Bernal  Heights,  as  the  site  is 
directly  across  the  street,  and  will  thus  have  substantial  and  significant  negative  effects  on  the 
residents  of  that  neighborhood. 


The  Project  will  Significantly  Increase  Air  Pollution  on  All  of 
Cortland  Avenue 


The  DEIR  fails  to  adequately  discuss  the  significant  environmental  effects  of 
the  project  on  many  of  the  residents  of  Bernal  Heights,  as  required  by  the  California 
Environmental  Quality  Act  ("CEQA").  Pub.  Resources  Code  §  21 100(b)(1). 
Because  the  project  will  cause  a  large  increase  in  traffic  on  Cortland  Avenue  (DEIR 
at  5,6  and  at  Table  2),  the  project  will  have  the  substantial  negative  impact  of 
increased  air  pollution  on  both  residents  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  Cortland 
Avenue  and  on  those  Bernal  Heights  residents  who  walk  or  drive  to  Cortland  to  shop. 
Yet,  the  DEIR  fails  to  consider  any  effects  of  air  pollution  on  Cortland  Avenue, 


E-82 


except  for  the  east  end  of  Cortland  at  Bayshore  Boulevard.  In  fact,  traffic  also  backs 
up  substantially  on  the  retail  portion  of  Cortland  Avenue  due  to  the  numerous  stop 
signs  and  pedestrian  traffic.  This  stop-and-go  driving  causes  much  more  air  pollution 
than  the  one  stop  at  Bayshore.  CEQA  requires  that  the  DE1R  address,  in  a  detailed 
statement,  "all  significant  effects  on  the  environment  of  the  proposed  project/"  Pub. 
Resources  Code  §  21 100(b)(1).  Merely  because  the  rest  of  Cortland  Avenue's  air 
pollution  does  not  currently  exceed  the  threshold  standard  set  by  the  Bay  Area  Air 
Quality  Management  District  does  not  mean  that  the  increased  air  pollution  is  not 
significant.  Significant  effects  are  those  that  cause  "adverse  changes  in  physical 
conditions  which  exist  within  the  area"  (Pub.  Resources  Code  §  21 100(d)),  not  only 
those  that  cause  a  level  of  pollution  to  exceed  a  certain  threshold.  As  additional  air 
pollution  will  certainly  cause  changes  in  the  physical  conditions  along  Cortland 
Avenue  and  those  changes  will  most  likely  be  substantial,  the  DEIR  is  must  address 
the  negative  effects  of  the  large  amount  of  additional  air  pollution  that  will  be  caused 
by  this  project  along  the  entirety  of  Cortland  Avenue,  which  it  fails  to  do. 

The  DEIR  also  fails  to  consider  the  increased  air  pollution  that  will  be  caused 
on  side  streets  near  Cortland  Avenue  as  drivers  attempt  to  escape  the  traffic  jams  that 
will  be  caused  by  the  significantly  increased  traffic.  These  side  streets  currently  have 
extremely  little  traffic,  so  any  increase  in  emitted  air  pollution  from  the  current  level 
of  almost  nothing  will  be  exponential,  and  thus  substantial  by  definition  and  very 
significant.  The  DEIR  completely  fails  to  address  the  adverse  significant  impacts  of 
added  air  pollution  to  the  side  streets  that  will  be  used  to  avoid  the  heavy  traffic  on 
Cortland. 


B. 


The  Project  will  Increase  Noise  Along  and  Near  Cortland  Avenue 


All  physical  conditions,  including  noise,  that  exist  within  the  area  affected  by 
the  project  must  be  addressed  by  the  DEIR.  Pub.  Resources  Code  §  21060.5. 
Increased  noise  is  a  change  in  the  existing  physical  conditions  of  the  affected  area,  so 
that  this  increased  noise  is  significant.  However,  the  DEIR  fails  to  address  the 
significant  negative  effects  of  the  increased  noise  on  and  near  Cortland  Avenue  that 
will  be  caused  by  the  large  increase  in  traffic  from  the  project.  This  increased  noise 
will  be  substantial  because  Cortland  is  only  a  two-lane  street.  Not  only  will  increased 
noise  occur  along  all  of  Cortland  Avenue,  but  on  the  above-mentioned  side  streets 
near  Cortland  that  drivers  will  be  using  in  order  to  escape  the  larger  traffic  jams  that 
the  project  will  cause.  The  increase  in  noise  on  the  side  streets  will  be  even  more 
substantial  than  that  on  Cortland,  because  those  streets  currently  have  very  little 
traffic,  so  that  any  amount  of  additional  traffic  is  a  very  large  increase  in  the  noise,  is 
substantial,  and  thus  must  be  addressed. 


E-83 


The  Increased  Traffic  from  the  Project  Will  Cause  Increased 
Delays  and  Danger  to  Pedestrians  in  the  Retail  Area  of  Cortland 
Avenue  and  on  Side  Streets  near  Cortland 


Pedestrians  already  face  delays  in  crossing  the  retail  area  of  Cortland  Avenue 
due  to  the  traffic  there.  This  project  will  cause  even  more  delays  for  those 
pedestrians  and  add  to  the  danger  of  crossing  Cortland.  The  DEIR  totally  fails  to 
address  this  issue,  which  is  a  change  in  the  existing  physical  conditions  along 
Cortland  Avenue,  making  it  a  significant  effect  of  the  project  that  must  be  addressed 
by  the  DEIR. 

Pedestrians  on  side  streets  near  Cortland  Avenue  will  also  be  negatively 
effected  by  the  increased  traffic  from  vehicles  attempting  to  escape  the  increased 
traffic  on  Cortland.  These  pedestrians  will  face  a  substantially  increased  danger  from 
the  additional  traffic,  because  the  drivers  using  side  streets  to  avoid  Cortland  will  be 
in  even  more  of  a  hurry  than  those  on  Cortland  and  will  thus  be  driving  faster  and 
more  aggressively.  Again,  this  will  be  a  very  large  change,  as  there  is  currently  very 
little  traffic  on  these  side  streets  and,  again,  the  DEIR  totally  fails  to  address  this 
substantial  and  significant  negative  effect  of  the  project. 


II. 


The  DEIR  Grossly  Underestimates  the  Negative  Effects  of  Additional 
Traffic  upon  Cortland  Avenue 


The  DEIR's  projected  negative  effects  upon  traffic  from  the  additional  vehicle-trips 
are  grossly  underestimated.  Cortland  Avenue  is  already  crowded  during  morning  and 
evening  rush  hours  near  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  near  Mission  Street,  and  during  the  day 
along  the  retail  portion  of  the  street.  The  additional  traffic  from  the  project  will  likely  cause 
severe  traffic  backups  along  the  entirety  of  Cortland  Avenue,  because  the  retail  area  of  the 
street  has  many  stop  signs  and  tends  to  back  up  somewhat  even  now.  Not  only  does  backed 
up  traffic  adversely  effect  drivers  by  the  time  wasted,  but  the  significantly  increased  air 
pollution  from  it  also  adversely  effects  both  those  of  us  who  walk  to  the  retail  portion  of 
Cortland  and  those  who  live  nearby.  The  increased  traffic  would  also  make  it  more  difficult 
and  dangerous  to  cross  Cortland  Avenue,  as  discussed  above. 


III. 


The  DEIR  Fails  to  Consider  the  Additional  Traffic  that  will  be  caused  by 
the  Closure  of  Neighborhood  Home  Supply  Stores 


Due  to  the  size  of  its  corporation  -  which  allows  the  stores  to  charge  significantly 
lower  prices  -  the  openings  of  Home  Depot  stores  inevitably  cause  the  closure  of  smaller, 
neighborhood  stores  with  which  Home  Depot  competes.  The  customers  who  were  once  able 
to  shop  in  their  own  neighborhoods  are  then  forced  to  drive  to  Home  Depot.  For  example,  if 
Cole  Hardware  on  Mission  Street  is  forced  out  of  business  by  the  project,  those  of  us  who 
now  walk  there  will  be  forced  to  drive  to  Home  Depot,  because  it  is  too  far  to  walk.  These 
closures  of  neighborhood  stores  will  cause  a  significant  amount  of  additional  traffic,  in  turn 
causing  additional  air  pollution,  noise,  and  adverse  impacts  to  pedestrians,  none  of  which 
were  considered  by  the  DEIR. 


IV. 


The  Negative  Effects  of  the  Project  Greatly  Outweigh  its  Benefits 


E-84 


The  DEIR  concedes  that  the  negative  impacts  of  certain  air  pollution  cannot  be 
reduced  to  an  insignificant  level.  DEIR  at  113.  However,  no  negative  effects  of  air  any  air 
pollution  can  be  mitigated,  because  once  the  pollutants  are  released  into  the  air  they  cannot 
be  captured,  and  they  then  add  to  the  already  polluted  air.  Because  the  significant  impacts  of 
increased  air  pollution  cannot  be  mitigated,  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  must 
adopt  a  Statement  of  Overriding  Considerations,  which  finds  that  overriding  "benefits  of  the 


project  outweigh  the  significant  effects  on  the  environment."  Pub.  Resources  Code  § 


21081(a)(3),  (b).  Likewise,  the  negative  impacts  of  additional  noise  -  which  the  DEIR  failed 
to  consider  -  in  a  residential  neighborhood  or  a  retail  area  to  which  most  of  us  walk  cannot  be 
mitigated.  


The  potential  benefits  of  this  project  are  dubious  at  best,  considering  that  Home 
Depot  pays  low  wages  and  does  not  allow  its  workers  to  unionize,  which  would  bring  them 
higher  wages  and  benefits.  Home  Depot  has  also  failed  to  guarantee  that  a  certain  number  of 
residents  from  the  Bayview  community  will  be  hired,  so  that  there  may  be  no  benefit  to  either 
community  from  this  project.  This  small  potential  benefit  of  a  few  possible  low-paying  jobs 
clearly  does  not  outweigh  the  significant  negative  effect  of  any  one  negative  impact  of  the 
project  alone,  let  alone  the  significant  negative  effects  of  the  all  of  them  together. 
Considering  that  the  substantial  amount  of  additional  air  pollution  and  noise  that  will  be 
generated  by  the  project  cannot  be  mitigated  and  that  there  will  be  an  additional  adverse 
impact  to  pedestrians,  the  significant  effects  on  the  environment  clearly  outweigh  the  small 
and  merely  potential  benefits  of  the  project.  There  is  thus  no  way  that  you  can  honestly  and 
logically  adopt  a  Statement  of  Overriding  Considerations,  which  is  needed  to  approve  the 
project  due  to  its  unmitigable  effects. 


Conclusion 


To  the  extent  that  they  belong  anywhere,  big  box  stores  like  Home  Depot  do  not 
belong  near  residential  neighborhoods,  because  they  would  cause  substantial  negative 
impacts  to  those  neighborhoods,  as  discussed  above.  This  type  of  project  is  only  suited  to  a 
non-residential,  suburban-type  area  served  only  by  a  highway,  where  the  additional  traffic 
and  its  substantial  negative  impacts  would  not  be  felt  by  people  living  nearby.  The  harm  that 
Bernal  Heights  would  suffer  from  this  project  would  be  irreversible,  because  the  project 
would  only  increase  the  amount  of  traffic  on  Cortland  Avenue,  which,  along  with  the  closure 
of  locally  owned  stores,  will  permanently  change  the  nature  of  our  neighborhood  for  the 
worse.  This  project  is  totally  inappropriate  for  this  area,  is  unwanted  by  the  vast  majority  of 
people  in  Bernal  Heights,  and  should  be  rejected. 


Sincerely, 


Jeff  Hoffman 

132  B  Coleridge 

San  Francisco,  CA94110 


E-85 


Date:       I  Oj> 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  May  19,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


hay  o  5  mm 

PLANNING  DEPT 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home 
Depot  project  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bemal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the 
approval  of  this  project,  as  it  will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 


Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


113     i.  -TU^  o^ttA-lr  WpRo  cm^W  n~  *i*<»<kj 
 .      o.<aA  dwoanc-.  Mtw»b  "&hrp  *><\M> 

125    iU^.  ^^.rfJSlS^w^ 


154 


4^  l/Vflva      WTwO^V W  ^ 


Sincerely,  \  ^ 


Siknatur\^/ 


Printed  Name: 


Address: 


■J 


0adc:> 


326  2^  125 


154 


4. 


VX)Vi4  wiH^U/*  4)1^4^- 


JmaaJ^  \  e.T>o.t  W(  cars 


E-86 


JU; ;  J  '  2ihi3 

Sara  Jacobs 
501  Andover  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94110 
(415)  648-0774 


June  9,  2003 


Tammy  Chan 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department 

1660  Mission  Street,  Suite  500 

San  Francisco,  California  94103-2414 

Subject:  Draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  491  Bayshore  Boulevard, 
Home  Depot 

Dear  Ms.  Chan: 


I  am  writing  to  provide  comment  on  the  above  referenced  Draft  Environmental  Impact 
Report  (EUR.).  As  an  environmental  engineering  professional,  I  review  and  prepare 
environmental  information  documents.  In  general,  I  think  the  Draft  EUR  provided  a 
thorough  review  of  the  potential  impacts  of  the  proposed  project  with  the  exception  of  the 
cultural  resources  section. 

I  did  not  have  access  to  the  cultural  resources  evaluation  performed  by  an  independent 
consulting  firm  as  part  of  the  review  process,  but  the  summary  provided  in  the  Draft  EIR 
did  not  mention  any  consultation  efforts  with  representatives  of  the  Ohlone  Tribe.  The 
evaluation  is  deficient  if  representatives  of  the  Tribe  have  not  been  consulted. 
Considering  the  site  "should  be  deemed  a  zone  of  high  prehistoric/protohistoric 
archaeological  sensitivity,"  the  proposed  mitigation  measure  is  inadequate  to  identify  and 
protect  cultural  resources.  Although  the  mitigation  measure  described  in  the  draft  EIR 
specifies  that  "ALERT"  sheets  would  be  circulated  to  all  field  personnel  working  on  the 
site  during  construction,  these  individuals  are  not  trained  in  recognizing  archeological 
resources.  An  appropriate  mitigation  measure  would  provide  for  a  licensed  archeologist 
and  Ohlone  tribal  representative  to  monitor  the  site  during  excavation  or  other  ground 
disturbing  activities. 

Consultation  with  Tribes  is  an  important  step  in  the  environmental  review  process  for  any 
construction  project,  especially  when  the  site  has  been  identified  as  a  sensitive  area  for 
cultural  resource  issues.  I  would  strongly  recommend  contacting  representatives  of  the 
Ohlone  Tribe  and  discussing  potential  mitigation  measures  with  them.  They  may  be  able 
to  provide  a  monitor  or  have  other  suggestions  that  would  ensure  that  any  archeological 
resources  found  would  be  handled  in  an  appropriate  matter  that  is  also  respectful  of  the 
wishes  of  the  Ohlone  people.  The  California  Office  of  Historic  Preservation  may  be  able 
to  provide  contact  information  for  representatives  of  the  Ohlone  Tribe. 


E-87 


Thank  you  for  the  opportunity  to  comment  on  this  document. 


Sincerely, 


Sara  Jacobs,  P.E 


Cc  :     Timothy  Kelly,  President 

Landmarks  Preservation  Commission 


E-88 


mL  com 

cAp 


COMMUNITY  ALLIANCE  OF  PORTOLA  &  SILVER  TERRACE 

El  P.O.  Box  347424  Avenue,  San  Francisco,  CA  94134  «  (4l5)-452-276l 


S 


RECEIVED 


JUL 


July  10,  2003 


ANNiNG  DEPT 


San  Francisco  Planning  Commission 
1660  Mission  Street,  Suite  500 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 


Board  of  Director? 


RECEIVED  AT  CPC  HEARING 

*i     ///>  y^yi^/z  -</W  J 

p/?rz^~  Pi&37&f 


Dwayne  Jusino 

PRESIDENT 

Roberc  Chan 

VICEPKESIDEST 

Pecer  Perez 

StCKSTAkY 

Phillip  Guan 

TKEASUklk 

Jose  Alvarez 
Guadalupe  AJvarez 
Bill  Carlin 
Hazel  Lee 
Howard  Woo 


To:  Commissioner  Shelley  Bradford-Bell,  President,  and  Commissioners,  at  large 
Re:  Proposed  Home  Depot  project  /  Environmental  Impact  Report 
cc:  Office  of  District  9  Supervisor,  Tom  Ammiano 
Office  of  District  10  Supervisor,  Sophie  Maxwell 


Dear  Commissioners, 


We  write  to  you  as  representatives  of  the  "Community  Alliance  of  the  Portola  and  Silver  Terrace",  an 
active  neighborhood  improvement  association  in  the  Portola-Silver  Terrace  neighborhood,  to  express 
our  support  for  the  Home  Depot  project  proposed  for  Bayshore  Boulevard  /  Waterloo  Street  site  in  San 
Francisco,  California. 

As  executive  officers  of  the  C.A.P.S.  (the  "Community  Alliance  of  the  Portola  and  Silver  Terrace") 
organization  -  chartered  to  promote  the  betterment  of,  and  community  outreach  to,  the  Portola-Silver 
Terrace  neighborhood  of  San  Francisco,  California  -  we  are  in  a  unique  position  to  offer  insights  into 
the  history  and  background  circumstances  of  our  community  and  its  residents,  significantly  relevant  to 
the  future  prospects  of  the  Home  Depot  project  proposed  for  Bayshore  Boulevard  /  Waterloo  Street  site 
in  San  Francisco,  California. 

For  your  reference  the  Portola-Silver  Terrace  neighborhood,  which  straddles  Supervisoral  district 
boundaries  between  Districts  9  and  10,  is  directly  south  and  adjacent  to  the  proposed  Home  Depot 
project  site.  Portola-Silver  Terrace,  which  has  two  southbound  (US-101)  freeway  off-ramps  and  a  third 
northbound  off-ramp  feeding  customer  traffic  flow  directly  through  our  neighborhood  to  the  Bayshore 
Boulevard  Home  Depot  site,  faces  the  same  potential  increased  traffic  impact  problems  to  our 
community's  already  heavily  congested  San  Bruno  Avenue  commercial  strip,  akin  to  the  concerns  raised 
by  the  neighboring  Bernal  Heights  community  in  regard  to  their  Cortland  Avenue  commercial  corridor. 
We  at  C.A.P.S.,  however,  do  not  share  agreement  with  their  aversion  to  the  Home  Depot  project  and, 


E-89 


based  upon  our  own  research,  we  believe  that,  generally  speaking,  Portola-Silver  Terrace  residents,  and 
merchants  alike,  are  favorable  of  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project. 


It  is  our  view  that  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project's  design  considerations  in  regard  to  traffic  and 
parking  issues  will  be  sufficient  to  accommodate  any  potential  traffic  increase,  thereby,  minimizing  any 
adverse  impact  to  our  community.  Additionally,  in  our  view  the  Home  Depot  project  will  in  no  way 
negatively  impact  the  competitive  viability  of  any  existing  businesses  on  our  San  Bruno  Avenue 
commercial  corridor,  but  rather  the  proposed  store  will  provide  sorely  needed  services  and  products 
lacking  in  our  community.  Additionally,  we  note  that  the  Silver  Terrace  portion  of  our  community  lies 
within  the  boundaries  of  the  Bayview  Project  Area  Committee's  purview  and,  as  such,  our  project 
concerns  are  further  mitigated  by  the  fact  that  our  Silver  Terrace  residents  are  also  eligible  to  be 
beneficiaries  of  Home  Depot's  stated  preferential  store  position  hiring  policy;  with  our  high  rate  of 
unemployment,  access  to  job  opportunities  is  a  dire  concern  to  our  community. 

We,  accordingly,  strongly  recommend  that  you  allow  the  Home  Depot  project  proposed  for  Bayshore 
Boulevard  /  Waterloo  Street  site  in  San  Francisco,  California,  to  move  forward. 


Sincerely, 
Dwayne  Jusino 


President  /  CAPS 

Community  Alliance  of  Portola  &  Silver  Terrace 
(415)246-0954 


E-90 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 


Date:  M/ 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 
Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


Sincere!' 


Printed  Name: 


Address: 


E-91 


113 


Date: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

RECEIVED 

JUL  0  8  213 

PLANNING  DEPT 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
49 1  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


Will         >Acre  ^^,  < 


Sincerely, 


Signature 


Printed  Name 


Address: 


113 


E-92 


Amy  D.  Kyle 


JUL  1  5  2ft  3 


50  Santa  Marina  St 


PLANNING  OF.P1 


San  Francisco  CA  941  10-5433 


July  9,  2003 


Paul  E.  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco  CA  94103 

Re:  Draft  EIR,  491  Bayshore  Boulevard,  Home  Depot,  2001.0062E 
Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposal  to  construct 
a  Home  Depot  store  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  at  Cortland  Avenue  in  San  Francisco. 

I  am  a  resident  of  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood,  which  is  immediately  adjacent  to  the 
project  site.  I  have  research  and  teaching  appointments  at  the  School  of  Public  Health  at  the 
University  of  California  Berkeley.  I  have  a  doctoral  degree  in  environmental  health  sciences  and  a 
masters  of  public  health.  My  areas  of  expertise  are  impacts  of  air  pollutants  and  transportation 
policies  on  communities  and  children's  environmental  health  and  I  have  published  research  on  these 
(and  other)  topics. 

I  have  grave  concerns  about  the  Environmental  Impact  Report.  Specifically,  the  report 
does  not  fully  address  the  obviously  foreseeable  air  quality  impacts  of  the  proposed  project;  the 
report  does  not  address  the  congestion  impacts  on  the  neighborhoods  adjacent  to  the  site  of  the 
proposed  project;  and  the  report  does  not  address  the  health  impacts  of  increased  congestion  and 
loss  of  a  pedestrian-oriented  focus  to  the  adjacent  neighborhoods. 

The  huge  Home  Depot  project  will  have  significant  adverse  effects  on  the  quality  of  the 
Bemal  Heights  neighborhood  that  cannot  be  mitigated  by  the  largely  cosmetic  changes  being 
suggested.  This  can  be  anticipated  to  have  significant,  adverse  effects  on  the  health  of  the 
community.  These  are  the  kinds  of  effects  that  the  Planning  Department  is  supposed  to  prevent. 

The  Home  Depot  project  is  out  of  scale  to  the  community  in  which  it  would  be  located.  It 
will  have  unacceptable  air  quality  and  health  impacts.  It  will  severely  diminish  the  quality  of  life 
and  the  capacity  for  pedestrian  access  to  the  commercial  area  that  is  the  heart  of  the  Bernal  Heights 
community.  It  should  not  be  permitted  to  proceed. 

Detailed  comments  are  attached. 


Very  truly  yours, 


cc: 


Tom  Ammiano 


E-93 


The  report  does  not  address  the  obviously  foreseeable  air  quality  impacts. 


First  J  the  report  does  not  address  the  significance  of  traffic-related  pollution  to  increasing 


ambient  concentrations  of  particulate  matter.  Particulate  matter  is  an  important  health  concern. 

Particulate  matter  refers  to  particles  in  the  air.  Particulate  matter  can  be  measured  in 
various  sizes.  For  many  years,  PM  has  been  measured  as  particles  that  are  ten  microns  in  size  or 
smaller,  known  as  PM-10.  There  are  both  short  (one  day)  and  long-term  (one  year)  air  quality 
standards  for  PM-10.  The  highest  average  value  for  PM-10  over  the  last  six  years  in  the  Bay 
Area  was  at  the  monitoring  station  at  Arkansas  St. 

It  is  not  correct  to  say  that  the  PM  standards  allow  for  any  margin  of  safety  for  the 
exposed  population.  Effects  of  exposure  to  PM  have  been  demonstrated  at  concentrations  below 
the  current  standards,  and  many  scientists  believe  that  there  is  no  safe  level  of  exposure. 

The  State  of  California  has  recently  adopted  new,  more  stringent  standards  for  PM-10,  as 
part  of  its  overall  review  of  environmental  standards  to  ensure  that  they  are  protective  for 
children.  This  is  a  key  policy  concern  because  most  environmental  standards  have  been  set 
without  any  consideration  of  the  special  vulnerabilities  of  children,  either  due  to  the  DEIR 
greater  intake  of  some  kinds  of  pollutants  or  due  to  the  DEIR  greater  vulnerability  to  some  kinds 
of  pollutants.  Cal-EPA  identified  particulate  matter  as  one  of  several  standards  deserving  of 
early  attention  because  many  of  the  health  effects  are  seen  particularly  in  children  (as  well  as  in 
elderly  people  and  those  with  existing  respiratory  disease.) 

As  a  result  of  this  review,  CARB  adopted  a  lower  one-year  standard  for  PM-10,  reducing 
the  existing  standard  of  30  to  20  ug  per  cubic  meter,  measured  as  an  annual  mean.  1    Both  San 
Francisco's  median  and  mean  values  exceed  this  standard,  which  means  that  there  are  significant 
health  concerns  for  particulate  matter  today. 

Both  the  state  and  federal  governments  are  also  implementing  standards  that  refer  to 
even  smaller  particles.  These  standards  apply  to  particles  that  are  2.5  microns  in  diameter  or 
smaller,  which  are  known  as  PM-2.5.  Such  smaller  particles  penetrate  even  further  into  the  lung, 
and  some  scientists  believe  that  the  most  harmful  fraction  of  particulate  matter  will  ultimately 
prove  to  be  this  smaller  fraction.  The  DEIR  does  not  address  this  issue  at  all. 


Second/ the  report  does  not  address  the  significance  of  traffic-related  pollution  to 


increasing  ambient  concentrations  of  several  hazardous  air  pollutants.  The  only  hazardous  air 
pollutant  that  the  DEER  even  mentions  is  diesel  exhaust.  There  are  many  others  that  are  directly 
associated  with  traffic -related  emissions  including  benzene,  formaldehyde,  and  acrolein.  Each  of 
these  will  add  to  the  risk  created  by  the  Home  Depot  project.  All  of  these  should  be  assessed  and 
considered  together.  Separating  out  only  one  of  them  is  not  a  valid  approach. 


 Third,  )the  report  does  not  address  the  significant  cumulative  risk  that  will  result  when  the 

new  emissions  of  hazardous  air  pollutants  are  added  to  the  already  significantly  elevated 
concentrations  of  hazardous  air  pollutants  found  in  San  Francisco.  The  DEER  is  correct  that 
these  pollutants  are  not  monitored  as  extensively  as  the  criteria  pollutants  such  as  particulate 
matter  or  ozone.  We  know  that  health  risks  posed  by  hazardous  air  pollutants  are  significant  and 
probably  exceed,  for  the  general  population,  risks  posed  by  exposure  to  toxics  in  any  other 
medium.  The  US  EPA  first  analyzed  the  health  risks  of  toxics  in  the  ambient  air  in  the  1990 


1  California  Air  Resources  Board.  Review  of  the  ambient  air  quality  standards  for  particulate  matter  and  sulfates.  June 
20,  2002  Board  meeting,  http://www-.arb.ca.gov/research/aaqs/std-rs/bdsum620/bdsum620.htm 


E-94 


Cumulative  Exposure  Project,  which  used  a  computer  model  to  estimate  the  amount  of  about  140 
hazardous  air  pollutants  in  each  census  tract  in  the  US  and  then  calculated  the  health  risks  that 
would  result  from  this.  This  study  concluded  that  virtually  everyone  in  the  US  is  exposed  to 
concentrations  of  hazardous  air  pollutants  of  health  concern. 2  3  The  US  EPA  ran  another 
assessment  of  the  hazardous  air  pollutants  nationally,  using  emissions  data  for  1996.  This 
National  Air  Toxics  Assessment  was  released  in  May  2002  and  reported  similar  results.  The 
estimates  for  San  Francisco  tend  to  be  higher  than  those  for  other  Bay  Area  counties.  This 
means  that  the  people  of  San  Francisco  are  already  at  risk  for  effects  of  exposure  to  these 
pollutants  and  that  increases  to  this  existing  exposure  need  to  be  avoided.  In  the  City  and  County 
of  San  Francisco,  the  average  cancer  risk  is  around  5  per  hundred  thousand.  This  means  that, 
over  a  lifetime,  about  5  people  per  hundred  thousand  would  be  expected  to  develop  cancer 
because  of  exposure  to  this  mix  of  pollutants.  However,  the  most  highly  exposed  people  have  a 
substantially  higher  risk.  The  95th  percentile  is  estimated  to  be  about  8  per  hundred  thousand. 
Adding  to  this  already  elevated  risk  is  a  significant  impact. 


 Fourth,  the  report  does  not  consider  the  effects  of  increased  air  pollution  on  vulnerable 

populations.  In  general,  we  know  from  epidemiology  studies  that  children  and  the  elderly  are 
groups  at  greater  risk  of  harm  from  exposure  to  most  air  pollutants.  We  also  know  that  people 
with  existing  respiratory  disease  are  at  greater  risk.  Such  populations  should  be  of  concern  in 
any  attempt  to  address  air  quality. 


 Fifth, |the  report  does  not  even  pretend  to  address  the  contribution  of  this  project  to 

increased  concentrations  of  ozone  in  the  Bay  Area.  The  DEIR  acknowledges  this  as  an  impact  of 
the  project.  It  should  be  addressed.  Increased  air  quality  impacts  are  not  acceptable,  and  the  City 
needs  to  be  working  on  reducing  air  pollution  and  not  increasing  it. 

Ozone  is  one  of  the  six  "criteria"  pollutants.  It  is  a  significant  health  concern  because  it 
is  known  to  alter  lung  function  and  to  contribute  to  respiratory  disease.  There  are  more 
violations  of  ozone  standards  than  those  for  any  other  criteria  air  pollutant  in  the  US.  The  Bay 
Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  has  been  designated  as  being  in  "non-attainment"  status 
for  ozone.  This  means  that  it  is  considered  to  be  out  of  compliance  with  the  National  Ambient 
Air  Quality  Standards  and  that  the  state  and  the  air  district  are  supposed  to  take  steps  to  attain 
compliance.  Allowing  unmitigated  increases  in  releases  of  gases  that  contribute  to  ozone 
formation  is  not  acceptable.  Motor  vehicles  are  the  most  significant  source  of  the  chemicals  that 
lead  to  formation  of  ozone  (ozone  precursors)  in  the  Bay  Area.  In  2000,  EPA  reports  that  the 
Bay  Area  exceeded  the  federal  ozone  standard  on  three  days.  In  1999,  there  were  also  three 
exceedance  days.  In  1998,  there  were  eight.  4 


Sixth,!  the  report  does  not  address  the  combined  impacts  of  the  freeways  coming  into  the 


area  of  the  project  site,  combined  with  increased  emissions  from  the  site.  It  is  well  established 
that  concentrations  of  pollutants  are  elevated  in  the  vicinity  of  freeways.  This  heightened  burden 
of  pollution  already  exists  in  the  project  area.  The  emissions  from  the  traffic  and  congestion 
would  be  added  to  this  already  elevated  level  of  pollution.  This  needs  to  be  addressed. 


II. 


The  DEIR  Does  not  Address  Congestion  Impacts  to  the  Neighborhood. 


2  Woodruff,  T.J.,  et  al.,  Public  health  implications  of  1990  air  toxics  concentrations  across  the  United  States. 

Environmental  Health  Perspectives,  1998.  106(5):  p.  245-251. 

3  Woodruff,  T.J.,  et  al.,  Estimating  cancer  risk  from  outdoor  concentrations  of  hazardous  air  pollutants  in  1990. 

Environ  Research,  2000.  82(3):  p.  194-206. 

4  US  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Region  9.  Fact  Sheet.  Noti  zs  of  Proposed  Rulemaking.  Partial 

Approval/Partial  Disapproval  of  Ozone  Attainment  Plan  and  Finding  of  Failure  to  Attain.  March  21 ,  2001 . 
http://www.epa.gov/region09/air/sfbayoz/fact0103.html 


E-95 


The  DEIR  has  a  very  limited  portrayal  of  the  significance  of  increased  congestion.  The 
DEIR  considers  the  impact  of  congestion  only  in  terms  of  time  to  access  the  freeway  or  to  make 
turns.  It  does  not  consider  the  impact  of  having  streets  that  are  continuously  impassable  and 
clogged  on  the  neighborhood  and  the  quality  of  life  for  people  who  live  in  it.  It  also  does  not 
consider  the  public  safety  implications  of  having  clogged  access  to  areas  to  which  there  are  few 
options  for  access  for  emergency  vehicles. 

Bernal  Heights  is  a  neighborhood  that  is  severely  constrained  by  its  physical 
characteristics.  There  are  few  through  streets  because  of  the  constraints  of  the  hills  on  which  it 
sits.  The  only  street  that  goes  through  the  neighborhood  from  east  to  west  is  Cortland  Avenue. 
This  is  also  the  business  and  pedestrian  center  of  the  neighborhood,  and  is  a  key  gathering  place. 
Traffic  problems  on  Cortland  Avenue  have  already  been  documented,  and  the  City  has  designed 
in  conjunction  with  the  neighborhood  and  is  carrying  out  traffic  calming  plans. 

The  Home  Depot  site  is  at  the  end  of  Cortland,  where  it  terminates  at  Bayshore.  This 
means  that  the  only  access  to  this  site  for  people  coming  from  most  of  the  City  will  be  via 
Cortland  Avenue.  The  DEIR  recognizes  the  huge  traffic  impact  that  this  site  will  have  on 
Cortland  by  noting  that  traffic  will  become  unmanageable  at  Cortland  and  Mission  Streets,  which 
is  about  a  mile  from  the  project  site,  at  the  other  end  of  Cortland  Avenue.  This  means  that  traffic 
will  also  be  unmanageable  all  along  Cortland  Avenue  from  Bayshore  to  Mission.  This  is  a 
hugely  devastating  impact  for  what  has  become  a  thriving  neighborhood  and  is  unacceptable.  It 
is  hard  to  imagine  how  a  DEIR  could  be  written  without  even  acknowledging  this  concern. 

The  DEIR  recognizes  other  very  significant  congestion  impacts,  particularly  that  five 
freeway  access  ramps  will  become  unacceptably  congested.  This  basically  constitutes  all  of  the 
freeway  access  ramps  from  this  portion  of  the  City.  This  means  that  people  in  this  area  will  no 
longer  have  even  relatively  uncongested  access  to  the  freeways.  This  seems  like  a  very 
significant  impact  as  well  that  is  not  mentioned. 

The  DEIR  does  not  appear  to  be  familiar  with  the  traffic  pattern  at  the  intersection  of 
Cortland  and  Bayshore.  Access  to  Bayshore  to  the  Home  Depot  site  or  to  the  101  on  ramp 
requires  a  left  turn  from  Cortland  to  Bayshore.  This  left  turn  capacity  is  already  highly  utilized. 
This  requires  crossing  through  the  pedestrian  crosswalks  across  Bayshore.  The  DEIR  does  not 
recognize  the  significance  of  the  conflicts  between  automotive  and  pedestrian  needs  at  this 
corner.  The  crossing  time  to  get  all  the  way  across  Bayshore  is  considerable.  When  pedestrians 
are  crossing,  the  time  available  for  a  left  turn  is  reduced  to  half  or  less  of  what  it  would  be 
otherwise.  This  can  only  be  expected  to  increase  if  a  huge  Home  Depot  is  built  here.  Moreover, 
the  DEIR  notes  that  the  existing,  narrow  median  would  be  removed  from  Bayshore,  leaving 
pedestrians  wholly  at  the  mercy  of  hurried  drivers  who  already  have  had  to  wait  a  long  time  to 
turn  left.  This  corner  has  already  been  identified  as  a  dangerous  intersection  for  pedestrians. 
The  DEIR  does  not  even  recognize  that  these  conflicts  will  become  vastly  worse  and  will 
increase  congestion  over  what  is  projected. 

The  congestion  will  increase  pollution  vastly  over  what  is  projected  in  the  DEIR,  which 
assumes  that  cars  will  be  moving  at  an  average  speed  of  25  mph.  This  speed  is  not  being  attained 
today.  The  DEIR  needs  to  have  traffic  and  air  quality  impacts  re-examined  to  reflect  the  gridlock 
conditions  that  will  exist  much  of  the  time. 

These  traffic  and  congestion  impacts  are  not  acceptable  to  the  neighborhood  or  in 
keeping  with  the  city  policy  of  maintaining  and  strengthening  neighborhoods  and  pedestrian 
oriented,  walkable,  livable  spaces. 


E-96 


These  traffic  and  congestion  impacts  are  not  acceptable  to  the  neighborhood  or  in  keeping 
with  the  city  policy  of  mamtaining  and  strengthening  neighborhoods  and  pedestrian  oriented, 
walkable,  livable  spaces 


HI.  The  DEIR  does  not  Address  the  Health  Impacts  of  Increased  Congestion  and  Loss  of  a 


Pedestrian-oriented  Focus  to  the  Adjacent  Neighborhoods. 

It  is  well  established  that  walkable  cities  are  healthy  cities.  Loss  of  pedestrian  access  and 
quality  in  an  urban  environment  contributes  to  social  isolation,  reduction  in  civic  engagement, 
increased  obesity  and  related  health  problems  such  as  diabetes,  and  many  other  adverse  effects. 

The  huge  Home  Depot  project  will  have  significant  adverse  effects  on  the  pedestrian 
quality  of  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood  that  cannot  be  mitigated  by  the  largely  cosmetic 
changes  being  suggested.  This  can  be  anticipated  to  have  significant,  adverse  effects  on  the  health 
of  the  community.  These  are  the  kinds  of  effects  that  the  Planning  Department  is  supposed  to 
prevent. 


E-97 


Date:    Q_All  <L-f  2~  *  0  ?  Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 

Environmental  Review  Officer  i^^.^^^  ,„ 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department  ~  vtz<-* 

1660  Mission  Street  J(jf    (]  n 

San  Francisco,  C A  94103  ^ 

PLANNING  DEPT 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 
Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bemal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 


Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


I 
I 

I 
I 

 ; — ~  \     i      4~  H^x.   Poll  i*Jt\~\  ^»»^  (v^-v 


Sincerely,/ 


Signature 


Printed  Name: 
Address: 


IP 
I 

II 

E-98 


Date: 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


RECEIVED 

JUL  0  9  2KB 

PLANNING  DEPT 


RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 


Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 

We  are,  already,  very  well  served  by  a  variety  of  hardware  stores,  lumber  yards,  flooring, 
bathroom  &  kitchen  stores.  Should  someone  need  to  shop  at  a  Home  Depot  there's  one  just  ten 
minutes  away.  There's  no  compelling  need  for  such  a  store  as  Home  Depot.  In  fact,  given  Home 
Depot's  competitive  practices,  existing  businesses'  economic  viability  will  be  strained. 
There  will  be  a  major  impact  on  traffic.  Since  moving  to  Bernal  Heights  in  1989,  there  has  been  a 
wealth  of  change;  not  least  is  the  volume  of  traffic.  Cortland  Ave.  has  become  a  vibrant  center 
for  the  neighborhood.  Parking  has  become  difficult  with  the  consequence  that  many  more  trucks 
are  double  parking  in  order  to  deliver  to  more  and  more  stores  on  Cortland  Avenue.  At  present, 
the  situation  is  manageable;  however,  a  Home  Depot  at  the  base  of  Cortland  Av.  at  Bayshore 
will  make  Cortland  a  major  throughway.  Rather  than  being  a  destination,  Cortland  will  become 
merely  a  means  to  an  end. 

Philosophically,  Home  Depot  runs  counter  to  fundamental  notions  of  neighborhood.  Its  success 
will  depend  on  drawing  people  from  many  other  neighborhoods  who  will  come,  make  their 
purchases,  and  leave  without  any  further  consideration  for  where  they've  been.  This  is  a  city 
neighborhood.  Our  visitors  usually  come  for  a  variety  of  amenities  (a  cup  of  coffee,  a  browse  at 
the  bookstore,  bunch  of  flowers,  hair  cut,  etc.).  If  there  is  a  place  for  stores  like  Home  Depot, 
it  is  in  suburban  wastelands. 

Home  Depot  does  not  share  our  values  and  sense  of  community.  It  doesn't  allow  for  organized 
labor,  for  instance. 


E-99 


Sunday,  July  06,  2003 


70 

23 
125 

163 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 

Environmental  Review  Officer  RECEIVED 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department  jy^  1  1  2063 

1 660  Mission  Street  PLANNING  DEPT 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

We  are  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed 
Home  Depot  project  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  We  are  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  we 
oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it  will  have  an  irreversible  negative  impact  on  our 
neighborhood. 

The  reasons  we  am  concerned  are: 


Traffic  flow  through  Bernal  Heights  along  Cortland  significantly  would  increase. 
This  traffic  flow  would  not  contribute  to  the  merchants  on  Cortland  and  would 
surely  contribute  to  additional  pedistrian/car  accidents  at  intersections  all  over 
Bernal  Heights  (such  as  Andover  and  Cortland).  For  reference  just  try  to  get  to  the 
Home  Depot  in  Colma  on  a  Saturday  or  Sunday. 


The  use  of  this  land  as  yet  another  Home  Depot  chain  store  doesn't  serve  the  city 
well.  Land  in  SF  is  precious  let's  make  sure  that  this  is  the  best  use  of  this  parcel 
of  land  (I  haven't  seen  any  serious  alternate  proposals). 


Bernal  Heights  is  surrounded  on  two  sides  by  freeways  (101  and  280).  Adding  the 
additional  traffic  would  increase  traffic  noise  and  pollution.  This  is  of  particular 
concern  to  parents  that  raise  small  children. 


A  Home  Depot  in  Colma  is  only  10  minutes  away  by  car  from  this  proposed 
location.  There  can  surely  be  little  benefit  to  Home  Depot  other  than 
cannibalization  of  sales. 

San  Francisco  should  be  promoting  local  businesses  where  the  profits  are  kept 
within  the  community  rather  than  a  large  chain  with  little  regard  for  the 
environment  of  the  neighborhoods  they  propose  to  disrupt. 


Sincerely, 


Michael  D.,  Linda,  Catriana,  Hanh  and  Michael  L.  Larson 
355  Highland  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  C A  94110 


E-100 


FL00RCRAFT4' 

Quality  From  the  Floor  Up  Since  194  J! 


470  Bayshore  Blvd.,  San  Francisco,  CA  94124  •  (415)824-4056  •  FAX  (41  5)  64 1 -0934 


April  11,2003 

f 

.-    -  i 

Mr.  Paul  E.  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Dept. 
1660  Mission  St. 
San  Francisco,  C A  94103 

Re:  Home  Depot  EIR  and  Planning  Report 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


I  would  like  to  address  several  issues  that  will  affect  traffic  and  customer  safety.  Our  customers 
who  park  in  our  corner  lot  at  the  intersection  of  Bayshore  and  Cortland  need  to  be  able  to  safely 
exit  the  lot  when  making  a  left  turn  onto  Cortland  heading  east.  Presently,  there  are  not  long  lines 
of  traffic  and  cars  are  let  into  the  lane  without  any  resulting  problems. 

With  the  increase  of  traffic  heading  eastbound,  and  drivers  attempting  to  run  the  light  because  of 
impatience,  there  will  be  a  real  safety  issue  for  someone  trying  to  turn  left  out  of  our  lot.  It  is  not 
logical  to  put  a  "No  Left  Turn'  sign  out  of  our  lot  because  there  is  no  existing  turn  around  area, 
as  Cortland  is  a  narrow  street.  A  possible  remedy  would  be  a  'Keep  Clear'  area  for  cars  to 
remain  behind  when  drivers  are  moving  east  on  Cortland. 

Another  issue  will  be  traffic  going  southbound  on  Bayshore  that  is  turning  right  onto  Cortland. 
There  is  a  potential  safety  problem  for  cars  coming  out  of  our  lot.  Traffic  turning  right  onto 
Cortland  from  Bayshore  presently  swing  right  very  quickly  and  frequently  don't  stop  for  red 
lights  on  Bayshore.  With  the  increase  of  traffic  on  Bayshore  there  would  be  further  safety 
concerns.  A  partial  remedy  would  be  to  install  a  "No  Right  Turn  on  Red'  at  Bayshore  or  a  signal 
in  our  lot  letting  the  people  out  and  stopping  traffic  southbound  on  Bayshore,  east  and  westbound 
on  Cortland.  This  traffic  light  could  be  sensory  operated,  so  it  only  activated  when  a  driver 
pulled  out. 


Another  issue  1  would  like  addressed  is  the  cross  pedestrian  traffic  issue.  When  Goodman's  was 
in  business  many  customers  would  park  in  our  corner  parking  lot  or  frontage  parking  lot  and 
jaywalk  across  the  street  because  it  was  faster  and  easier  than  parking  in  Goodman's  lot.  It 
worked  both  ways  on  busy  days.  With  the  advent  of  Home  Depot  this  situation  would  be  far 
worse  because  the  traffic  would  be  many  times  greater.  It  is  a  vital  safety  concern  because  of  the 
constant  pedestrian  jaywalking. 


E-101 


FLOORCRAFT 


Page  2 


In  addition,  many  customers  do  not  like  parking  on  second  or  third  floor  levels,  and  may  think  it 
more  convenient  to  use  our  lot  for  parking  instead,  and  then  run  across  the  street.  A  possible 
remedy  would  be  to  construct  a  barrier  on  Bayshore  down  the  center,  perhaps  a  fence,  and  create 
a  turnaround  lane  north  of  our  building  to  ensure  that  people  did  not  dart  through  the  u-turn  area. 

A  possible  solution  to  Home  Depot's  customer  usage  of  our  corner  lot  would  be  to  make  it  as 
inconvenient  as  possible  to  park  there  by  having  Home  Depot's  customer  store  entrance  and  exit 
as  far  back  towards  Loomis  St.  as  possible,  thereby  establishing  the  need  to  use  their  parking  lot 
for  convenience.  I'm  assuming  that  is  the  only  entrance  to  the  store  as  I  believe  more  chaos 
would  arise  if  an  entrance  was  placed  on  the  Bayshore  side  of  the  store. 


Please  keep  me  informed  on  how  these  and  other  similar  issues  are  being  addressed. 


Sincerely, 


Philip  Lerner 


E-102 


163 


Date:  Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department  ^?CE!VED 

1660  Mission  Street  ....    ~  „ 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103  <JuL  v,  /  ZlfiJd 

PLANNING  DEPT 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 
Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bemal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood/  Ou*A.  ^^i^ixj^^ph 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


110    iW-  JLSi  ^^  ^  ^f^'  ^  ^ 


Sincerely, 

(DQQ 


Signature 

Printed  Name:  ~U>  &3QY~Q^  Lg-V/^  

Address: 


E-103 


Date:  Q 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


LA 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


-\V^Sincerely, 


/  \jJ\ 


Signature 


Printed  Name 
Address:  \Q^> 


,  3  OS 


E-104 


110 


RECEIVED 

May  1,2003  MAY  0  5  2003 

PLANNING  DEPT 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  a  resident  of  the  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood  and  strongly  oppose  the 
proposed  Home  Depot  project  at  491  Bay  shore  Boulevard.  It  will  have 
negative  impacts  on  mymeighborhood  and  the  surrounding  area  that  will  be 
irreversible  and  cumulative. 


The  plan  calls  for  a  three  level  parking  lot  at  the  end  of  Cortland  Street  What 
will  be  the  result  of  this  besides  being  a  blatant  eyesore  on  the  landscape? 
Traffic  will  back  up  all  along  Cortand  Street  as  people  from  cross  town  try  to 
access  the  lot.  Cortland  Street  is  now  a  mixed  residential  and  commercial 
street  that -cannot  accommodate  this  new  large  influx  of  traffic.  The  side 
68   streets  parallel  to  Cortland  are  so  narrow  that  only  one  car  at  a  time  can  go 
down  the  street.  If  two  cars  are  in  the  same  block,  a  choreography  must  be 
implemented  by  the  drivers  to  pass  each  other.  Additional  traffic  will 
exacerbate  this  problem  and  will  undoubtedly  cause  tempers  to  flare  and 
additional  car  and  pedestrian  accidents.  Most  streets  of  Bemal  Hill  do  not 
even  have  city  street  cleaning  because  the  streets  are  so  narrow.  Additional 
traffic  will  als&mean  there  will  parking  problems  in  the  commercial  area  of 
Cortland  Street  and  additional  trash  -  which  is  an  ongoing  problem  of  the 
neighborhood. 


The  proposed  Home  Depot,  if  built  as  planned  at  that  huge  scale,  will  cause 
traffic  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  at  the  freeway  onramps  and  offramps 
that  will  be  irreversible  and  unacceptable.  As  it  is  now,  Bayshore  is  an 
extremely  busy  street  and  at  peak  hours  the  traffic  slows  to  a  crawl  and  is 
backed  up.  As  the  school  bus  company  is  located  on  Jerrold  Avenue  near 
Bayshore,  the  school  busses  that  transport  our  children  will  be  captive  to  the 


additional  traffic  delays  along  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Air  quality  will  be 


125 


E-I05 


25 


52 


degraded  even  more  in  an  area  of  the  city  that  already  suffers  from  too  many 
cases  of  asthma,  especially  among  children.  Bringing  in  additional  cars  and 
trucks  from  all  directions  of  the  city  and  peninsula  wilt  create- a  greater  and 
unacceptable  environmental  degradation  of  the  whole  area  both  in  terms  of 
traffic  congestion  and  air  quality  degradation. 


I  read  with  interest  in  today's  Chronicle  that  the  Planning  Department  is 
-booking  for  ways  and  places  to  build  more  housing  in  the  city.  Why  not  build 
a  combination  residential  and  commercial  development  along-Bayshore 
Boulevard?  This  could  serve  the  surrounding  communities  (Bernal  Heights 
and  Bayview-Hunter's  Point)  much  better,  and  would  not  create  the  kind  of 
environmental  disaster  that  the  proposed  giant Horne  Depot  would  create.  In 
addition,  the  twenty-six.  smalLliome,  supply  businesses  that  have  served  the 
city  for  many  years  could  be  preserved. 


Please  consider  these  many  points  in  your  deliberations  about  whether  to 
approve  the  Home  Depot  project  and  its  environmental  impacts  that  truly 
would  be  irreversible.  San  Francisco  does  not  benefit  from  this  kind^f 
development!  1 


Most  sincerely, 


Rosamie  Liggett 

125  Gates  Street  i 

San  Francisco,  CA  94110 


cc 


E-106 


Date: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


3 


IVv^i^w^  f^io^Ws  kill  fi^^is^  (v^ffic 


Printed  Name: 

Address:  ^JJQ£jUl^= 


f 


E-107 


\       /  ' — \ 

Date:  -~ 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 
RECEIVED 

JUL  0  9  2803 

PLANNING  DEPT 


RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 
Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


113 


"1,1  tv,,. 


^   Mores  o,rovn$  bcaa^fc. 


^  6  e  c 


Sincerely,  ^toJ^ 
Signature 

^  I    ,      '  1 10'-  l  La.  \\  0 

Printed  Name: 
Address 


fW  Ben  /* 

3  3%    Pftr)T  4rre^ 


E-108 


Date:  ! 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


V3 


r 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


Sincerely, 
Signature 


Printed  Name:  (\^\  AH^<^J 
Address: 


E-109 


624  Andover  Street 
San  Francisco  941 10 
April  26,  2003 


RBCEfVED 


m  3  0  2003 


PLANNING  DEFT 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
SF  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 


RE:  EIR  Public  Comments 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer, 

I  an  a  resident  of  south  Bernal  Heights.  I  oopose  the  Home  Depot  project.  I  am 
commenting  on  the  Environmental  Impact  Report. 


This  very  large  project  is  proposed  at  Cortland  Avenue,  the  one  eastern  entry  to  Bernal 
Heights.  This  project  is  just  over  the  border  from  our  residental  area.  It  would  have  a  deeply 
negative  effect  upon  Bernal  Heights.  Shouldn't  there  be  a  grey  area  around  a  residential 
zone  that  prevents  such  large  projects?  Home  Depot  ought  to  pick  from  one  of  the  other 
industrial  sites  available. 


Bayshore  Boulevard  already  Is  congested  when  US  101  and  US  280  become  backed 
up.  This  happens  every  morning  and  evening  and  for  large  portions  of  the  weekend  days, 
and  other  unpredictable  times.  Cars  already  cut  through  Bernal  Heights  to  avoid  the  traffic 
backups.  We  have  narrow  streets,  many  with  2  way  stops.  The  integrity  of  our 
neighborhood  will  be  lost  because  Industrial  zoning  begins  at  our  doorstep.  Drivers  looking 
to  "save  time"  do  not  look  out  for  children,  seniors  or  other  residents.  Our  main  shopping 
street  is  Cortland  Avenue.  This  street  will  become  a  danger  to  cross. 

I  drive  to/from  the  Caltrain  Station  ( 22  Street)  using  Cortland.and  Bayshore.  It  can  already 
become  backed  up  easily  because  of  traffic,  1  or  2  slow  cars,  Muni  losing  it's  power,  etc. 
The  idea  of  a  500  car  garage  at  that  intersection  is  simply  inappropriate. 


Traffic  delays  mean  cars  idling,  with  increased  car  exhaust  pollution.  Put  this  project 
somewhere  where  cars  won't  have  to  idle  in  order  to  arrive/leave  the  center. 


We  are  close  to  SF  General  Hospital,  a  regional  Trauma  Center.  Bayshore  Boulevard 
feeds  directly  onto  this  Potrero  Avenue  site.  Has  the  impact  of  this  congestion  been 
considered  on  Emergency  services  for  our  county?  I  also  wonder  about  the  impact  upon 
Emergency  services  to  Bernal  Heights.  We  do  have  a  Fire  Station  locally,  but  what  about 
Police,  Ambulance  and  other  essential  services? 


153  1  Please  do  not  sacrifice  my  neighborhood  to  this  project! 
Thank  you  for  considering  my  perspective. 


Eugenie  Marek 


E-110 


67 


RECEIVED 

/  /  JUL  i  4  2  13 

Date:  / /  I  (  Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003        PLANNING  DEPT 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


Here  is  why  1  am  concerned.  I 

A^t...     ^|?eciai^y           4^~<l_  C^v  a>~Q~ 

%^y<^p\r%*    tot—  Yla^\^  \^\o^V'  ,  3t  H 

^*~£>   ^v^/f  <=/^lr     -\^o   &  \r- 


163 


Signature  '    V— 


Sincerely, 

Signature 

Printed  Name: 
Address: 


E-lll 


Date: 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 
RECEIVED 

JUL  0  8  213 

PLANNING  DEPT 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bemal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


n 


/ 1  am  concernea.  ,  / 

Oicn*  t>   i*  ohm  %  T'i^ 

^  *  Mb«-  ^,Z  V 


Sincerely, 


Sincerely, 
Signature 

Printed  Name:  fflj  DAt£    01  A/W 


E-112 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Date:  ljljo3> 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


RECEIVED 

JUL  1  0  2003 

PLANNING  DEPT 


125 


67 


e  is  why  i  am  concerned.  i  f"  •» 


j 


it 


(A  (jolmcL 
g  miles  j  i 

'ca 


ru^r^UJi  .AMMscJ-  Cjbvflcund  &  BcupM^ 
^tk^  cJ.mjl(JA  tanjjeMicU  CmHaAd-  @7PU4M&iSt. 


Sincerely, 


Printed  Name: 


Address 


OmJ 


163 


sf,  aq  who 


E-113 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  May  19,  2003 


RECEIVED 

m  0  7  2013 
PLANNING  DEPT 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home 
Depot  project  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bemal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the 
approval  of  this  project,  as  it  will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 


Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


Date:  Sr^/O  3 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 


E-114 


Date:  May  9,  2003 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 


RE:  EIR  Public  Comments 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed 
Home  Depot  project  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose 
the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it  will  have  irreversible  negative  impact  on  my  neighborhood.  The 
following  are  my  concerns: 


1. 


a. 


Traffic  Report.  I  believe  that  the  traffic  report  does  not  include  all  of  the  traffic  impacts 
and  is  unacceptable. 

Crescent  Ave  was  not  considered  a  main  east  to  west  corridor  between  Mission 
and  Bayshore.  Crescent  Ave  is  used  by  many  cars  and  busses  (MUNI  23  and  67). 
I  live  on  Crescent  Street  and  see  the  traffic  daily.  People  from  the  Sunset,  Glen 
Park,  Forest  Hill  and  other  western  neighborhoods  are  likely  to  cut  across  the  city 
using  O  Shaughnessy  to  Bosworth  to  Crescent  to  get  to  the  proposed  Home 
Depot. 

People  will  not  use  Putman  Street  when  Cortland  is  clogged.  My  experience 
indicates  that  people  will  avoid  Cortland  and  use  Crescent  because  it  is  fast  and 
only  has  three  stop  signs  between  Mission  and  Alemany. 


65 


54 


62 


113 

f 

74 

g. 

104 


The  city  recently  did  a  traffic  calming  study  for  the  South  Bernal  Heights  area. 
The  information  and  suggestions  from  that  report  should  be  incorporated  into  this 
traffic  report.  I  am  concerned  that  we  will  see  more  accidents  on  Crescent  and 
Cortland  because  there  are  not  enough  pedestrian  friendly  crosswalks.  The 
recommendation  of  the  traffic  calming  report  are  desperately  needed.  The  Home 
Depot  project  would  increase  our  neighborhood's  concerns. 
The  Alemany-Putman-Crescent  intersection  by  the  farmers  market  does  not  have 
proper  stop  signs.  Traffic  on  the  weekend  is  very  bad  when  the  farmers  market  (or 
flea  market)  is  open.  A  Home  Depot  would  increase  this  traffic  and  create  a  large 
bottle  neck  that  is  not  adequately  addressed  in  the  report. 
I  am  concerned  that  Bayshore  will  become  like  Emeryville.  Emeryville  is  a 
planning  disaster  located  near  merging  freeways  and  traffic  is  always  an  issue.  The 
difference  between  Emeryville  and  the  Bayshore  is  that  there  is  a  nearby 
neighborhood  that  will  be  impacted  too. 

The  entrance  to  Home  Depot  should  not  be  at  Cortland  and  Bayshore.  It  creates 
more  traffic  in  my  neighborhood.  Why  not  have  the  entrance  on  the  backside"7 


Future  traffic  impacts  in  the  report  do  not  consider  that  Home  Depot  is  one  of 


E-115 


h. 


many  stores  that  will  go  in.  In  Emeryville  several  other  large  stores  followed  the 
Home  Depot  project.  We  know  that  Pier  One  Imports  will  go  in  next  to  Home 
Depot  if  they  get  approval  for  this  project.  Potential  growth  in  the  area  needs  to 
be  considered  in  future  traffic  impacts. 


The  traffic  report  indicates  that  in  the  future  most  intersection  will  be  rated  as  an  F. 
This  is  unacceptable. 


The  freeway  exits  are  too  small  and  will  clog  the  freeway  more  than  the  report 
suggests.  Particularly  Northbound  101  and  Southbound  280. 


The  23  and  the  24  Muni  bus  lines  will  be  severely  impacted.  I  am  concerned  about 
the  delays  because  I  rely  on  these  busses  to  get  me  to  different  parts  of  the  city. 


Home  Depot  is  not  like  any  other  store.  People  will  come  from  all  around.  If  you 
were  to  have  a  project  such  as  a  market.  It  would  have  less  traffic  implications  for 
the  Bernal  Heights. 


Environmental  Impacts.  I  believe  that  the  environment  report  does  not  include  all  of  the 
environmental  impacts  and  is  unacceptable. 

The  report  only  looked  a  diesel  exhaust.  Other  contaminants  should  have  been 
looked  at. 


67  pounds  on  NOXs  is  too  much.  Remember  that  Home  Depot  is  next  to  a 
neighborhood  where  there  are  schools  and  many  elderly  people  live  in  Bernal 
Heights.  They  can  suffer  more  from  toxic  air. 


The  report  only  looks  at  PM  10  but  should  also  look  at  PM  2.5  which  is  very 
dangerous  size  particles. 


The  report  says  that  it  will  exceed  PM  and  Ozone  standards.  This  is  unacceptable. 
We  urge  you  not  to  allow  our  air  to  become  dirtier. 


Nature  of  the  Project.  We  all  know  that  Bayshore  needs  to  be  developed.  The  planning 
commission  needs  to  consider  Proposition  M.  Home  Depot  will  put  other  local  hardware 
stores  out  of  business.  Many  jobs  will  also  be  lost  from  these  local  businesses.  Bayshore 
is  full  of  great  hardware  resources. 


Please  consider  my  comments  and  not  approve  this  project.  I  will  hold  the  Planning 
Commission  and  the  Board  of  Supervisors  responsible  if  this  project  is  approved. 


my  neighborhood  to  become  a  throughway  for  Home  Depot. 


I  do  not  want 


Sincerely, 

Amy  C.  Miller  and 
703  Crescent  Av 
San  Francisco,  CA 


cc:  Honorable  Supervisor  Tom  Ammiano 


E-116 


157 


Date 


y 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dea/  Mr.  Maltzer: 


%5 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


'  —    ^  ~/)/}      —  * — /  ^*~~^v'—  i-A-^s  -^-t±_/-*cs~z<^j 

///   ^      ^     ^      ^       ^zfA^.L^  y  /) 


Signature 


Printed  Name: 


?///  Ahsd* 


Address: 


E-117 


Date:  tr  15-03 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department  '%r>  «. 

1660  Mission  Street  -Jfjs  ^g-is 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103  ^  *  ^  J     ,  ° 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS  NQ  0^ 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


Sincerely, 


Signature 

Printed  Name: 
Address: 


E-118 


163 


113 


Date 


¥- 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

RECEIVED 
JUL  0  9  2003 

PLANNING  DEPT 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 


Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


Signature 


Address: 


Printed  Name: 


E-119 


Date:     0  -<)3 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer  ^ 
Environmental  Review  Officer  *      w  v  c^ 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department  JUL  0  '^  2^0° 
1660  Mission  Street  ^  ^Uc*3 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103  PLANNING  DEPT 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


tncrtAS*-       -toffies  ovj  Cw+I*nc(  n^d  tthr  /<^  'to(t^Hal  si-r^eJs 


r>u  posset*.  ^7  *  lusr<2-s  125 


Sincerely, 


Printed  Name: 

Address:      32g  &QC4rt+  S/. 


E-120 


Date:  fP_  ^  Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 

Environmental  Review  Officer  Rf?C-E:iVED 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 

1660  Mission  Street  JUL  0  7  2C03 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103  PLANNING  DEPT 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 
Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 

T-^k^X  lis  corA  A  YU.  jJter.  Mot  t^;^  l^w  i^ad^HUse^t shhjfe 


ft 


Sincerely, 

Printed  Name: 

Address:^2_A    FRENT1S5    ^TcaRT^^y  H^dL^^G 


>t>  is 

E-121 


44 


113 


163 


G^Wfcd;  Cruets  tlt^^  ^^Worsf  . 

W6^e^V^  n^f^)^ 


E-122 


3 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

RECEIVED 

JUL  1  0  2093 

PLANNING  DEPT 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


E-123 


Date: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 


Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


RECEIVED 

JUL  0  9  2003 

PLANNING  DEPT 


ft 


Printed  Name:    /    /       r  /  v 
Address:      2S/S  f/'  i&S  Sf  f  A 


E-124 


163 


Date:  H?^  14)  jgg3  Public  Comment  Deadline:  May  19,  2003 
Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 

Environmental  Review  Officer  .  „ 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department  -  ; 

1660  Mission  Street    "  PLANNING  DEPT 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home 
Depot  project  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the 
approval  of  this  project,  as  it  will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 


Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


Sincerely, 
Signature 


Printed  Name:       ^CU-CC  Q&US/k  

Address:  2</0     C o  fr  In 'y     S/S    <^  /Y//£ 

E-125 


Paul  Maltzer  To:  Tammy  Chan/CTYPLN/SFGOV@SFGOV,  Bill 

Wycko/CTYPLN/SFGOV®  SFGOV 

cc: 

Subject:  Regarding  Home  Depot  Draft  EIR 


05/29/03  09:06  AM 


FYI 

- —  Forwarded  by  Paul  Maltzer/CTYPLN/SFGOV  on  05/29/03  09:02  AM 


,J,""7irrrT*T'  Stanley  Muraoka  To:  Paul  Maltzer/CTYPLN/SFGOV @SFGOV,  Jon 

05/29/03  08:36  AM  Lau/CTYPLN/SFGOV@SFGOV 


cc:  "Jim  smiles  at  you  :o\)"  <jim@sf-pt.com> 
Subject:  Regarding  Home  Depot  Draft  EIR_| 


"Jim  smiles  at  you  :o\)"  <jim@sf-pt.com> 


"Jim  smiles  at  you 
:o\)"  <jim@sf-pt.com> 

05/28/2003  07:58  PM 
Please  respond  to  "Jim 
smiles  at  you  :o\)" 


To:  "Stanley  Muraoka"  <Stanley.Muraoka@sfgov.org> 
cc:  <dan@dodt-plc.com>,  <cedricjackson@ci.sf.ca.us>, 

<Gaynell.Armstrong@sfgov.org>,  <bmcgee_us@yahoo.com>, 
<dcrosby100@aol.com>,  <EHAYES1  ©email. usps.gov>, 
<hwknsc37 @ hotmail.com>,  <linfadeke @ aol.com>, 
<mhamman@igc.org>,  <bhpmss1  @aol.com> 
Subject:  Re:  FYI  --  March  20,  2003 


Stanley, 

I  received  a  copy  of  the  draft  environmental  impact  report  for  the  bayshore 
blvd  home  depot  and  wanted  to  make  one  comment/suggestion. 

In  regards  to  the  traffice  improvements   (see  illus.  p.   63),   I  would  suggest 
an  entrance  into  the  home  depot  from  bayshore  blvd  without  an  exit  onto 
bayshore  blvd.  The  exit  from  home  depot  should  be  at  Waterloo  street,  with  a 
left  turn  only.  This  would  direct  traffic  away  from  bayshore  blvd  and  create 
a  possibility  whereby  cars  turning  left  on  Waterloo  would  have  an  option  to 
subsequently  turn  left  towards  Oakdale,   or  right  towards  Industrial.  These 
are  two  thoroughfares  which  are  quite  capable  of  handling  the  volume  of 
traffic  that  will  be  anticipated.  Having  traffic  exit  at  Waterloo  would  also 
ameliorate  the  concerns  of  the  Bernal  Heights  community  by  preventing  cars  ' 
from  directly  exiting  Home  Depot  onto  Cortland.  Also,   by  having  an  entrance 
only  at     Bayshore  Blvd,  you  will  be  able  to  create  a  left  turn  in  two  lanes, 
with  the  middle  lane  giving  drivers  the  option  of  turning  left,  or 
continuing  on  through  Bayshore.  This  would  reduce  the  queue  lines  turning 
left  into  the  home  depot.  Drivers  would  also  retain  the  ability  to  drive 
into  the  home  depot  parking  directly  from  Cortland,   using  more  than  one 
lane,   also  reducing  queu  lines  on  Cortland. 

I  don't  know  if  my  suggestions  are  far  too  late  to  give  impact,  but 
regardless,   I  do  believe  the  proposed  setup  as  currently  written  in  the 
draft  report  does  not  maximize  the  use  of  available  streets  in  limiting 
traffic  backups.   I  have  only  skimmed  the  impact  report,  but  did  feel  this 
issue  warranted  immediate  attention.  

My  regards  to  all  my  friends  at  the  PAC.[Lets  make  sure  this  facility  gets 
[  done  right  I 

best  wishes, 


E-126 


150  Cortland  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA  941 10  RECEIVED 
July  8,  2003 

JUL  i  o  im 

PLANNING  DEPT 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  St. 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 


RE:  EIR  Public  Comments  on  proposed  Home  Depot  store  on  Bayshore 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed 


Home  Depot  project  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard  in  San  Francisco.  [I  very  strongly  oppose 


the  approval  of  this  project,  which  will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my 
neighborhood,  my  family,  and  our  future  plans  for  raising  our  children  in  San  Francisco. 


I  am  a  writer,  teacher,  Bernal  Heights  homeowner  since  2000,  and  parent  of  two  children 
in  the  San  Francisco  public  schools.  My  husband,  Lenny  Carlson,  is  a  musician  who  also 
teaches  music  at  City  College  of  San  Francisco  and  San  Francisco  State  University.  We 
spent  well  over  a  year  in  1999-2000  seeking  a  house  we  could  afford  to  buy  in  San 
Francisco's  extremely  inflated  real  estate  market.  When  we  bought  a  fixer  on  Cortland 
Avenue  in  south  Bernal  Heights  in  the  fall  of 2000,  we  were  well  aware  that  we  were 
moving  into  one  of  the  very  last  of  the  marginally  safe  and  affordable  family-friendly 
neighborhoods  in  all  of  San  Francisco. 

Even  though  housing  prices  have  since  dropped  somewhat,  our  realtor  has  told  that  our 
home's  value  has  held  steady,  both  because  of  the  repairs  we  have  made  and  because  the 
neighborhood  has  continued  its  slow  but  steady  upturn.  Take  a  drive  onto  Cortland  these 
days,  and  you'll  see  scaffolding  up  in  front  of  many  storefronts.  New  shops  and 
restaurants  open  every  couple  of  weeks.  Walk  down  these  same  streets,  and  you'll 
experience  the  pride  both  longtime  and  newer  residents  have  in  their  neighborhood. 

The  neighborhood  is  not  without  problems.  Increased  traffic  on  Cortland  and 
surrounding  streets  led  the  city  more  than  a  year  ago  to  begin  a  "traffic  calming"  study; 
plans  for  implementing  the  resulting  recommendations  are  still  being  worked  out.  High 
youth  unemployment  and  petty  and  more  serious  crime  are  among  the  problems  the  area 
continues  to  face. 


However,  it's  a  neighborhood  well  worth  investing  in  -  not  just  for  homeowners  like  my 
husband  and  myself,  but  also  from  the  point  of  view  of  City  Hall.  Why?  Because  Bernal 
Heights  could  easily  become  an  example  of  what's  right  about  San  Francisco:  small. 


E-127 


extremely  diverse,  affordable,  welcoming,  family-friendly  neighborhoods  that  encourage 
people  to  put  down  roots  and  build  community.  We  invested  in  Bernal  Heights  for  much 
the  same  reason  we  have  invested  so  many  hours,  so  much  in  the  way  of  fund-raising 
efforts,  and  so  much  heart  in  our  children's  public  school,  Claire  Lilienthal:  because  we 
believed  that  consistent  effort,  added  to  what  was  already  a  wonderful,  established 
community,  would  build  a  neighborhood  of  great  value  and  benefit  to  all  of  its  residents. 

The  Home  Depot  store  in  Colma,  a  scant  10  minute  drive  from  our  home  even  in  traffic, 
is  located  just  where  it  should  be:  in  an  area  where  it  does  not  impact  residential 
neighborhoods,  and  where  parking  and  freeway  access  are  a  breeze.  It's  NOT  in  an  area 
where  the  increased  traffic  and  resulting  poor  air  quality  would  directly  effect  young 
children  and  their  parents,  contributing  to  childhood  asthma  and  other  respiratory 
problems,  long  delays  commuting  to  and  from  family  homes  and  businesses,  ongoing 
traffic  noise  well  after  bedtimes,  an  increased  number  of  traffic  accidents  and  certainly 
pedestrian  injuries  and  fatalities,  and  a  degraded  overall  quality  of  life  in  a  neighborhood 
so  well  known  for  just  that:  quality  of  life. 

A  number  of  national  polls  have  recently  claimed  that  San  Francisco  is  unfriendly  to 
families  -  citing  overpriced  housing,  struggling  school  quality,  unevenly  maintained 
parks  and  public  facilities,  among  many  other  issues.  Add  to  this  a  city  government 
administration  that  is  committed  to  business-friendly  practices  even  when  they 
completely  overrun  the  needs  of  neighborhoods,  and  you  will  accelerate  the  flight  from 
the  city  of  exactly  those  citizens  most  committed  to  staying  put  and  building  a  life  there. 

If  Home  Depot  moves  into  our  neighborhood  -  with  all  of  its  intractable  attendant 
problems,  with  the  obvious  probability  of  destroying  the  many  smaller  competing  home 
improvement  businesses  on  Bayshore,  with  its  management's  refusal  to  guarantee  work 
for  the  low-income  residents  of  neighboring  communities  -  who,  as  always,  will  suffer 
the  most  from  both  the  construction  and  the  operation  of  this  unwanted  behemoth  on  their 
doorstep  -  our  family's  and  our  neighbors'  quality  of  life  will  suffer,  our  home  wjll  lose 
substantial  real  market  value,  and  we'll  ultimately  forget  our  dream  of  a  decent 
neighborhood  in  which  to  raise  our  family  in  San  Francisco. 

Thank  you  for  your  attention.  I  hope  you  think  hard  before  you  act  to  so  certainly 
damage  the  jewel  of  a  strong,  productive  neighborhood  that  is  Bernal  Heights  with  the 
giant  bootprint  that  Home  Depot  is  certain  to  represent. 


Sincerely, 


Lisa  Rosenberg 


150  Cortland  Ave. 

San  Francisco,  CA94110 

415/282-3628 


E-128 


Date:  ~^J_  j  j/d  Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department  ^  a 

1660  Mission  Street  '^V'a     ^ ■' 

San  Francisco,  CA  94 103  *G  r„ 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned.  ]/}  t,    f     \MoaJl  .  bjl\J*~ 

ir  w^wfc  ^  .      ,  ^  fate  ^ 

Printed Name:         A  &T**lffJT  \        ^    jg<  ^ 

Address:    S^A^Uy  /fWV<  Cj/U XE. 

<Jf  fcf//6 


E-129 


Date: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 


DECEIVED 

JUL  0  2  2093 


PLANNING  DEPT 


RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 
Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bemal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


I  have  lived  in  Bernal  Heights  for  16  years,  two  blocks  from  Bayshore  Blvd.  I 
have  seen  the  neighborhood  grow,  yet  retain  its  'small  town'  feel.  People  are  friendly  and 
helpful.  We  are  familiar  to  store  owners,  salespeople,  librarians,  etc.  This  is  why  I  live 
here.  

Yet,  the  threat  of  Home  Depot  two  blocks  from  my  house  is  extremely  distressing. 
There  will  be  SO  much  traffic  on  Cortland  and  the  side  streets  that  the  character  of  the 
neighborhood  will  definitely  be  compromised.  Those  of  us  who  utilize  the  stores  and 
other  outlets  on  Cortland  will  have  great  difficulty  finding  parking  and  the  press  of  cars 
will  greatly  affect  the  atmosphere. 

Because  of  this  impending  possibility,  we  have  considered  selling  our  house  and 
moving  to  another  neighborhood.  But,  upon  investigation,  we  continually  feel  that  we 
would  rather  live  here  than  anywhere  else  in  the  city.  In  addition,  other  more  'desirable' 
neighborhoods  are  not  a  financial  possibility  for  us. 

Many,  many  of  our  neighbors  feel  similarly  to  ourselves.  We,  therefore,  hope  that 
you  will  reject  this  project. 


Sincerely, 


Printed  Name: 


Address:  \Q«\    fceiXO^Q^O  SCJMM 


As  :2 


'.I  * 1 


E-130 


Date: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 


RECEIVED 

JUL  0  9  2003 

PLANNING  DEPT 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


Sincerely, 


Signature 


Printed  Name 


Address 


E-131 


Date: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


A 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


U/Tlf    CAM**  ±0  ^  ^Utkj-hfffi'C 

Pro  hltMAS   u/ifA  ■ 


Sincerely,  t  J  jf 


Signature 


Printed  Name: 
Address: 


E-132 


37/11/2903    16:33  415-431-2468 


SF  BICYCLE  COALITION 


PAGE  01 


90 


I 

1 

1095  Market  $treet  1215 
San  Francisco;  CA  94 103 
415  43lr  BIKE 
415.431.2443  fax 
wwwsfb*^!  onj 


July  11,2003 

Paul  E.  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

Re:  2001.0062E  Home  Depot  Development 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer, 


Thank  you  for  the  opportunity  to  comment  on  this  Draft  EIR  We  look  forward  to  receiving  a 
revised  copy  with  our  comments  addressed. 

Sincerely, 


Leah  Shahum 
Executive  Director 


E-133 

<i  Printed  on  a  recycled  Wand  of  kenaf  /  post-consumer  waste  w(tn  soy-based  infc  Processed  cNotine-rree. 


The  San  Francisco  Bicycle  Coalition  would  like  to  submit  the  following  comments  regarding  the 
proposed  Home  Depot  development  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard  on  behalf  of  our  4,200  dues 
paying  members.  We  feel  that  this  EIR  does  not  adequately  portray  the  potential  negative 
environmental  effects  of  the  development,  including  but  not  limited  to  its  effects  on  bicyclists  and 
pedestrians,  air  quality,  and  traffic  congestion. 

':  •  ! 

Bayshore  Blvd.  is  a  critical  north-south  bicycle  route  through  the  Bay  view  and  Bernal  Heights 
neighborhood.  Current  conditions  are  unacceptable  for  bicycles,  given  the  already  heavy  traffic 
and  speed  differential  that  exists,  together  with  a  lack  of  dedicated  bicycle  lanes.  The  Home 
Depot  will  result  in  a  significant  increase  in  traffic  to  the  site,  including  large  delivery  trucks, 
particularly  hazardous  to  cyclists  in  areas  lacking  adequate  bicycle  facilities.  This  development 
will  directly  increase  potential  danger  and  conflict  between  bicyclists  and  motor  vehicles.  In  fact, 
the  EJJR  acknowledges  that  the  Home  Depot  project  will  result  in  "increased  potential  for  conflicts 
between  motorists  and  bicyclists,  as  there  would  be  more  competition  for  the  travel  lanes  between 
bicycles,  autos,  and  trucks."  It  goes  on  to  say  that  "this  would  not,  however,  adversely  impact 
bicycle  conditions."  Bicycle  conditions  are  clearly  "adversely  impacted"  when  there  is  additional 
motor  traffic,  especially  on  a  road  such  as  Bayshore  without  bike  lanes.  This  is  a  very  real  impact 
that  is  not  reflected  accurately  in  this  EIR. 

As  a  result,  we  believe  it  is  proper  (and  not  without  precedent  in  other  cicies)  to  require  Home 
Depot  to  provide  mitigation  measures  that  will  address  the  serious  impacts  on  bicycle  traffic 
along  Bayshore,  commensurate  with  the  impacts  of  the  development  Just  as  pedestrian  impacts 
are  being  mitigated  by  providing  countdown  signals  and  bulb  outs,  Home  Depot  should  be 
required  to  pay  for  the  installation  of  bicycle  lanes  along  Bayshore.  The  City  should  not  be  left 
with  the  tab  for  providing  basic  transportation  facilities  that  have  become  chronically  needed  as  a 
result  of  a  private  development  project.  In  fact,  Bayshore  Blvd.  has  already  been  identified  in  the 
San  Francisco  Bike  Plan  Update  as  one  of  the  City's  "top  20"  needed  bicycle  projects.  It  is 
highly  likely,  given  the  arterial  nature  of  Bayshore  Blvd.,  that  bike  lanes  will  be  the  preferred 
alternative. 


Date:    ^  /tTv/^S  Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

RECEIVED 
Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 

Environmental  Review  Officer  JUL  0  3  2003 


PLANNING  DEPT 


San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer. 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


ay)  Um 


Sincerel 


Printed  Nai  ■  ■  ■ 
Address: 


fr^^coJCA  Wit) 


E-134 


a      Professional  Corporation 


C  A  S  S  I  D  Y 
S  H   I  M  K  O 

Dawson 


53 


July  11,2003 

Via  Messenger 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 
Attn:    Paul  E.  Maltzer 

Environmental  Review  Officer 

Re:      Comments  on  Draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  Home  Depot 
Project;  File  No.  2001.0062E  and  State  Clearinghouse  No.  2000032010 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

On  behalf  of  our  client,  Home  Depot,  we  wish  to  compliment  the  City  and  County 
of  San  Francisco  on  a  thorough  and  accurate  Draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  (EIR) 
for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  store  (the  "Store").  The  document  is  meticulous  in  its 
identification  of  possible  project  impacts,  although  in  some  cases  we  believe  (based  on 
our  client's  decades  of  experience  with  similar-sized  Home  Depot  stores  in  comparable 
locations)  that  it  is  overly  conservative  in  its  predictions.  The  conservative  nature  of  the 
assessments  is  a  valuable  asset  to  the  Draft  EIR  because  it  ensures  that  all  possible 
environmental  impacts  are  addressed  and  adequately  mitigated,  to  the  extent  possible.  In 
our  experts'  judgment,  however,  it  is  likely  that  the  degree  of  several  key  impacts  will  be 
much  less  than  that  predicted  by  the  Draft  EIR.  We  therefore  submit  the  following 
comments  on  the  Draft  EIR,  primarily  to  identify  what  we  believe  are  more  realistic 
levels  of  impacts,  but  also  to  clarify  certain  statements  within  the  Draft  EIR.  Thank  you 
for  the  opportunity  to  submit  these  comments. 


Transportation.  The  transportation  study  prepared  for  the  Draft  EIR  is  based  on 
several  "worst  case"  assumptions,  each  one  compounding  the  next,  and  uses  calculations 
and  assumptions  derived  in  an  overly  conservative  manner.  The  result  is  an  extreme 
scenario  that  is  very  unlikely  to  happen.  This  is  an  effective  method  to  use  in  preparing 
the  Draft  EIR,  as  it  leads  to  the  identification  of  every  traffic  impact  that  could  possibly 
occur,  but  in  reality  the  traffic  impacts  of  the  Store  will  likely  be  far  less  intense.  Our 
analysis  of  these  issues  is  based  on  a  peer  traffic  review  conducted  by  Overland  Traffic 
Consultants  (the  "Overland  Study"),  a  copy  of  which  is  attached  as  Exhibit  A  to  this 
letter.  The  Overland  Study  presents  and  employs  more  realistic  assumptions  to  analyze 
the  "real  world"  traffic  effects  of  the  project.  The  Overland  Study  finds  that  the  Draft 

20  CALIFORNIA  ST.    SUITE  500    SAN  FRANCISCO.  CA    94  I  I  I       TELEPHONE:      (-4  15)  788-2040 


E-135 


San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
Attn:  Paul  E.  Maltzer 
July  1 1 ,  2003 
Page  2 

EER  overestimated  traffic  volume  by  approximately  20%.  The  revised,  more  realistic 
traffic  volume  for  the  site  would  result  in  shorter  waits  at  intersections,  and,  most 
significantly,  no  increase  in  density  levels  on  the  freeway  ramp  junctions  currently  at 
Level  of  Service  F.  This  means  that  the  project  will  have  no  significant  and  unmitigable 
impacts  at  freeway  ramp  junctions. 


The  Draft  EIR  also  uses  an  overly  conservative  standard  of  significance  for 
cumulative  traffic  effects,  with  the  result  being  that  the  project's  contribution  to 
cumulative  impacts  in  2015  appears  far  larger  than  it  truly  will  be.  The  Draft  EIR  (at 
pages  79-81)  assesses  the  project's  contribution  to  impacted  intersections  and  on-ramps 
in  2015,  and  bases  the  significance  determinations  on  the  project's  percentage 
contribution  to  the  traffic  growth  between  now  and  2015,  as  opposed  to  the  project's 
percentage  contribution  to  the  total  traffic  volumes  at  the  impacted  locations.  We  believe 
that  use  of  the  latter  numbers  (which  are,  of  course,  much  lower)  is  the  approach 
suggested  by  CEQA.  CEQA  directs  that  the  EIR  first  consider  whether  the  cumulative 
(201 5)  conditions  at  intersections  and  on-ramps  are  significant,  looking  at  the  future  total 
amount  of  projected  traffic  at  the  impacted  locations.  Then,  to  calculate  the  project's 
effects,  the  EIR  must  determine  whether  "the  effects  of  the  project  are  cumulatively 
considerable"  at  those  significant  locations.  CEQA  Guidelines  §  15064(i)(l). 
'"Cumulatively  considerable'  means  that  the  incremental  effects  of  an  individual  project 
are  considerable  when  viewed  in  connection  with  past  projects,  the  effects  of  other 
current  projects,  and  the  effects  of  probable  future  projects."  Id.  Particularly  since  the 
term  "past  projects"  (i.e.,  the  existing  environmental  setting)  is  used,  the  direction  is  to 
consider  the  amount  that  the  project  contributes  to  the  overall,  total  traffic  problem,  not 
just  to  the  increase  in  traffic  between  now  and  2015.  Again,  we  are  not  necessarily 
recommending  that  the  City  alter  the  conservative  approach  of  the  Draft  EIR,  but  we  do 
think  it  is  important  for  decision-makers  to  understand  the  conservative  nature  of  the 
approaches  selected,  which  likely  overstate  project  impacts. 


Air  Quality.  The  traffic  volume  relied  on  in  the  air  quality  analysis  in  the  Draft 
EIR  is  derived  from  the  transportation  impact  analysis  therein.1  As  discussed  above,  the 
Overland  Study  contains  an  analysis  of  traffic  impacts  that,  in  our  opinion,  is  more 
realistic.  Because  the  volume  of  vehicles  is  lower  in  this  revised  estimate,  the 
corresponding  air  quality  impacts  related  to  vehicle  emissions  would  also  be  less  than 
indicated  in  the  Draft  EIR,  as  shown  in  the  Baseline  Environmental  Consultants  analysis 
attached  to  this  letter  as  Exhibit  B.  This  expert  analysis  demonstrates  that,  in  fact,  the 
projected  regional  reactive  organic  compound  (ROG)  impacts  would  be  below  the  Bay 
Area  Air  Quality  Management  District's  significance  threshold  level  of  80  pounds  per 
day.  This  means  that,  in  reality,  the  proposed  project  would  not  cause  a  significant 


1  "Daily  and  weekend  trip  generation  rates  for  project  land  uses  were  provided  in  the  project  transportation 
analysis."  Draft  EIR,  p.  87. 


E-136 


San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
Attn:  Paul  E.  Maltzer 
July  11,2003 
Page  3 

impact  on  air  quality.  Thus,  the  project  would  not  result  in  any  significant  environmental 
impacts  that  could  not  be  mitigated. 


Visual  Impacts. 


Residents  of  areas  near  the  project  site  have  raised  concerns 
regarding  the  amount  of  light  and  glare  from  the  rooftop  of  the  Store  and  the  adjacent 
garage.  In  fact,  there  is  already  a  considerable  amount  of  light  generated  during  the 
nighttime  hours  from  the  existing  uses  along  Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  Home  Depot  will 
not  add  any  light  source  that  will  stand  out  against  these  other  lights.  Nevertheless,  our 
architects  have  carefully  designed  the  structures  in  order  to  further  reduce  the  nighttime 
effects  of  the  Store. 

There  will  be  no  lights  on  the  top  of  the  Store  itself.  Screening  on  the  second  and 
third  levels  of  the  garage  adjacent  to  the  Store  will  prevent  car  lights  from  within  the 
lower  levels  of  the  garage  from  being  seen  by  residents  living  on  nearby  hills.  The  lights 
on  the  topmost  parking  level  will  face  downward  with  cut  off  shields  to  direct  light  down 
and  prevent  light  from  spilling  over  the  rooftop  parking  area.  No  vehicle  headlights  will 
be  visible  from  the  top  parking  level,  because  the  entire  level  will  be  surrounded  by  a  354- 
foot  wall.  Above  the  3!/2-foot  wall,  half  of  the  topmost  parking  level  will  be  shielded  by 
continuing  the  solid  wall,  and  the  other  half  will  be  concealed  by  a  trellis  created  with 
vines  strung  among  horizontal  cables.  The  cables  will  form  a  vertical  wall  reaching  to 
approximately  10  feet  above  the  floor  of  the  topmost  level,  and  then  slope  inward  on  an 
angle  toward  the  parking  area  to  a  height  of  approximately  15  feet.  In  addition  to  these 
concealment  measures,  there  will  be  trees  in  planters  on  the  rooftop  parking  level,  which 
will  also  function  to  block  light  from  the  garage.  Together,  the  trellis  system  and 
plantings  should  prevent  both  glare  and  direct  light  effects  from  the  garage  from  being 
visible  from  homes  in  Bernal  Heights. 


Growth  Inducement  Data. 


The  Growth  Inducement  section  of  the  Draft  EIR  (on 
page  103  and  also  in  the  Summary  on  page  1 1)  states  that  the  daily  population  of  the 
Store  would  include  75-100  employees.  This  estimate  should  be  changed  to  reflect  the 
fact  that  the  daily  population  of  the  Store  would  include  approximately  197  employees. 
This  change  was  calculated  as  follows: 

Home  Depot  estimates  that  Store  employees  would  work  for  a  total  of 
approximately  10,080  hours  per  week,  which  is  similar  to  the  number  of  hours  worked 
each  week  at  Home  Depot's  Colma  store.  Based  on  the  experience  of  other  Home  Depot 
stores,  we  have  assumed  in  the  calculations  that  the  labor  force  at  the  Store  would  be 
comprised  of  about  60%  full  time  and  40%  part  time  associates.  Therefore,  assuming 
that  full  time  employees  work,  on  average,  a  40-hour  work  week  (i.e.,  five  8-hour  days) 
and  that  part  time  employees  work,  on  average,  24  hours  per  week  (i.e.,  four  6-hour 


E-137 


San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
Attn:  Paul  E.  Maltzer 
July  11,  2003 
Page  4 

days),  then  approximately  180  full-  and  120  part-time  employees  would  work  at  the  Store 
each  week,  as  shown  below:2 

1 80  full  time  associates  x  40  hours  per  week  =  7,200  full  time  hours  per  week 
+  120  part  time  associates  x  24  hours  per  week  =  2,880  part  time  hours  per  week 
300  total  associates  10,080  total  hours  per  week 

The  revised  daily  Store  population  of  197  employees  per  day  is  based  on  the 
following  calculations: 

7,200  full  time  hours  per  week  over  7  days  =  1,029  full  times  hours  per  day 
1,029  full  time  hours  per  day  at  8  hours  =  128.5  full  time  associates  per  day 

2,880  part  time  hours  per  week  over  7  days  =  411  part  time  hours  per  day 

41 1  part  time  hours  per  day  at  6  hours  (average  shift  assumption)  =  68.5  part  time 

associates  per  day 

The  sum  of  128.5  full-time  associates  plus  68.5  part-time  associates  equals  197 
associates  per  day. 

Note  that  this  change  in  numbers  will  not  in  any  way  affect  the  assumptions 
contained  in  the  Draft  EIR  traffic  analysis.  The  trip  generation  numbers  calculated  in  the 
Draft  EIR  based  the  number  of  vehicle  trips  on  the  square  footage  of  the  store  (as  derived 
from  other  Home  Depot  stores  in  California).   Because  these  numbers  are  not  derived 
from  the  projected  numbers  of  employees  and  customers,  the  change  in  the  daily 
employee  population  does  not  affect  the  traffic  calculations. 


Mitigation  Measures.  The  scope  of  mitigation  measures  set  forth  in  the  Draft  EIR 
is  appropriate  for  the  project.  As  you  know,  any  prescribed  mitigation  measures  must  be 
both  reasonably  linked  to  the  impacts  of  the  project,  and  "roughly  proportional"  to  the 
impacts  of  the  project  (see  CEQA  Guidelines  §  15126.4(a)(4)).  The  Draft  EIR  sets  forth 
a  comprehensive  list  of  the  project's  impacts,  and  then  provides  mitigation  measures  that 
accurately  and  adequately  address  those  impacts. 


2  Note  that  because  the  Store  is  not  yet  open,  these  estimates  are  necessarily  approximations,  based  on 
information  from  other  comparable  Home  Depot  stores,  of  the  total  hours  worked  per  week  as  well  as  the 
potential  ratio  of  full  time  to  part  time  employees. 

3  See  page  3-1  of  the  Wilbur  Smith  Associates  Transportation  Study  dated  September  17,  2002,  on  which 
the  Draft  EIR  transportation  analysis  is  based:  "To  determine  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trip  generation, 
driveway  counts  were  performed  at  four  similar  Home  Depot  stores  in  California. . .  From  the  driveway 
counts,  weekday  PM  peak  hour  vehicle-trip  generation  rates  on  a  per  square  foot  basis  were  developed  for 
each  store.  To  determine  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  trip  generation,  the  ratio  between  the  weekday 
PM  peak  hour  and  Saturday  midday  peak  hour  driveway  counts  from  the  Colma  store  was  determined. 
This  ratio  was  applied  to  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trip  generation  rate  to  estimate  the  Saturday  midday 
peak  hour  trip  generation  rate." 


E-138 


San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
Attn:  Paul  E.  Maltzer 
July  11,  2003 
Page  5 

Some  comments  to  the  Draft  EIR  claim  that  the  mitigation  measures  are  not 
sufficient,  primarily  with  respect  to  the  improvements  required  to  mitigate  traffic 
impacts.  In  fact,  many  traffic  improvements  were  proposed  as  part  of  the  project  itself, 
including  pedestrian  improvements  and  the  addition  of  two  turn  lanes  at  the  intersection 
of  Bayshore  and  Cortland  (see  pages  62-65  of  the  Draft  EIR).  The  incorporation  of  these 
improvements  rendered  the  project  essentially  "self-mitigating,"  with  the  result  that  the 
project  will  have  minimal  traffic  impacts.  Also,  although  not  required  to  alleviate 
significant  project  impacts,  Home  Depot  would  fund  the  traffic  improvement  measure 
suggested  in  the  Draft  EIR  (page  110)  for  improving  the  eastbound  approach  of  Cortland 
Avenue  to  Bayshore  Boulevard.4 


 Alternatives.  |  Home  Depot  believes  that  the  alternatives  analysis  set  forth  in  the 

Draft  EIR  includes  a  reasonable  range  of  alternatives  to  the  proposed  project,  as  required 
by  CEQA  Guidelines  §  1 5126.6.  While  it  may  have  been  useful  for  informational 
purposes  to  include  a  60,000  square  foot  store  as  an  alternative  (Alternative  C,  Draft  EIR 
page  121),  that  option  is  not  by  any  means  a  feasible  alternative,  so  cannot  be  selected  in 
lieu  of  the  proposed  project.  While  there  are  certain  locations  in  the  United  States  where 
Home  Depot  has  home  improvement  stores  ranging  in  size  from  50,000  to  80,000  square 
feet,  these  stores  do  not  carry  the  full  range  of  Home  Depot  items  for  urban  home 
improvement  and  do  not  feature  lumber  supplies,  a  garden  center  or  home  decorating 
services.  Moreover,  these  stores  are  within  a  five  to  ten  minute  drive  to  full-sized  Home 
Depot  Stores.  Likewise,  the  60,000  square  foot  alternative  included  in  the  Draft  EIR 
would  not  be  able  to  offer  Home  Depot's  complete  range  of  home  improvement  services, 
and  the  nearest  Home  Depot  stores  are  at  least  half  an  hour  away  by  car  so  they  are  too 
far  away  to  rely  on  for  support  services.  The  60,000  square  foot  alternative  would  not 
meet  the  following  of  Home  Depot's  objectives:  to  provide  a  wide  range  of  home 
improvement  goods  and  services  within  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco;  to  satisfy 
the  home  improvement  supply  needs  for  both  do-it-yourself  customers  and  local 
contractors;  to  provide  a  source  of  substantial  sales  tax  revenue  to  the  City  and  County  of 
San  Francisco;  to  stem  sales  tax  leakage  from  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  to 
cities  where  full-service  home  improvement  centers  currently  exist;  to  provide  new  job 
opportunities  for  San  Francisco  residents  (particularly  residents  of  the  Bayview  Hunters 
Point  neighborhood);  to  site  a  new  full-service  Home  Depot  in  a  location  that  will  relieve 
over-crowding  at  the  Home  Depot  in  Colma;  and  to  make  it  possible  for  San  Francisco 
residents  who  currently  shop  at  the  Colma  Home  Depot  to  shop  closer  to  home. 

Not  only  does  the  60,000  square  foot  alternative  fail  to  meet  Home  Depot's 
objectives  for  the  site,  it  is  unlikely  to  meet  any  prospective  retailer's  objectives  for  the 
site.  The  proposed  location  for  the  Store  previously  hosted  two  businesses  (Goodman's 


4  As  the  Draft  EIR  indicates  (page  110),  the  project  would  not  significantly  contribute  to  cumulative 
conditions  at  the  Bayshore/Silver  intersection,  so  cannot  be  required  to  fund  the  improvement  measure  for 
that  intersection. 


E-139 


San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
Attn:  Paul  E.  Maltzer 
July  11,2003 
Page  6 

Lumber  and  Whole  Earth  Access)  that  occupied  approximately  107,346  square  feet  of 
space.  Whole  Earth  Access's  predecessor  at  the  site  was  apparently  a  lumberyard  that 
likely  took  up  even  more  space.  Given  the  industrial  nature  of  the  area,  the  types  of 
home  improvement  businesses  that  are  located  along  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  the  costs  to 
acquire  and  develop  land  in  the  area,  it  is  infeasible  to  place  such  a  small  building  on  the 
site  (and  Home  Depot,  which  has  the  right  to  occupy  the  project  site  for  the  next  50  years, 
would  not  consider  doing  so). 


Economic  Impacts.  Members  of  the  public  have  raised  concerns  over  potential 
economic  effects  of  the  Home  Depot  Store  on  other  home  improvement  businesses  in  San 
Francisco.  We  attach  as  Exhibit  C  to  this  letter  a  copy  of  the  Economic  Impact  Report 
dated  January  2002,  which  was  prepared  by  the  Sedway  Group  to  examine  the  fiscal 
impacts  of  the  proposed  Home  Depot  store.  This  study  finds  the  demand  by  San 
Francisco  residents  for  building  materials  to  be  so  enormous  that  the  existing  businesses 
within  the  City  fall  well  short  of  meeting  it.  Sedway  estimates  that  San  Francisco 
currently  loses  approximately  $250  million  each  year  in  building  materials  sales,  while 
the  proposed  store  is  expected  to  average  about  $45  million  in  building  materials  sales. 
Thus,  even  with  the  addition  of  the  Home  Depot  Store,  the  Sedway  Group  estimates  that 
San  Francisco  would  still  lose  over  two  hundred  million  dollars  a  year  of  potential 
building  materials  sales  to  stores  outside  the  City  limits.  Because  San  Francisco  residents 
would  demand  far  larger  amounts  of  building  materials  than  the  new  store  could  possibly 
supply,  the  other  home  improvement  stores  in  the  City  would  clearly  continue  to  succeed. 

In  fact,  as  shown  by  newspaper  articles  from  areas  all  over  the  country  (attached 
as  Exhibit  D  to  this  letter),  the  opening  of  a  new  Home  Depot  store  has  often  -  contrary 
to  pre-opening  fears  of  nearby  home  improvement  stores  -  actually  led  to  the  increased 
success  of  such  stores.  This  is  due  not  only  to  excess  demand  for  home  improvement 
wares  within  the  region,  but  also  to  the  synergy  between  Home  Depot's  broad  spectrum 
of  merchandise  and  the  more  specialized  service  and  product  lines  offered  by  the  smaller 
stores.  As  the  articles  discuss,  in  many  instances,  residents  and  businesses  alike  have 
welcomed  new  Home  Depot  stores  into  their  communities  because  they  anticipated  -  and 
received  -  numerous  economic  benefits  from  Home  Depot's  presence. 

While  economic  or  social  information  can  be  included  in  an  EIR,  "[ejconomic  or 
social  effects  of  a  project  shall  not  be  treated  as  significant  effects  on  the  environment." 
CEQA  Guidelines  §  15131  (a).  Economic  and  social  changes  are  only  relevant  under 
CEQA  if  they  will  cause  physical  changes  that  would  result  in  significant  impacts,  e.g.,  if 
the  project  would  result  in  the  closure  of  numerous  businesses  whose  buildings  would  not 
be  reused,  thus  causing  physical  blight.  Plainly,  here,  there  is  not  a  shred  of  evidence  to 
suggest  that  such  a  convoluted  course  of  events  would  occur,  and  the  evidence  in  the 
Economic  Impact  Report  shows  that  the  opposite  will  occur,  i.e.,  that  other  home 
improvement  businesses  in  San  Francisco  will  thrive. 


E-140 


San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
Attn:  Paul  E.  Maltzer 
July  11,  2003 
Page  7 

We  look  forward  to  the  responses  to  these  comments.  Should  you  have  any 
questions  or  comments  in  the  interim,  please  feel  free  to  contact  me. 


cc:      Tammy  Chan 
Stu  During 
Mike  Abbate 
Erika  Strawn 
Jeffrey  L.  Nichols 
Evette  R.  Davis 
Frank  Coda 
Scott  Sobeck 
Matthew  Thomas 
Deirdre  M.  Dawson 
Deborah  L  Kartiganer 
Dan  Conway 


Very  truly  yours, 


Anna  C.  Shimko 


E-141 


*  Exhibits  to  Anna  Shimko's  comment  letter  are  faced  with  blue  sheets. 
Comment  letters  resume  alphabetically  after  the  second  blue  sheet. 


A.  Shimko 
Exhibit  A 


Overland  Traffic  Consultants 
25876  The  Old  Road  #  307 
Santa  Clarita,  CA  91381 
Phone:  (661)  799  -  8423 
Cell:  (310)  930  -  3303 
Fax:  (661)  799  -  8456 
E-mail:  OTCINC@attbi.com 

July  11,  2003 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 

Environmental  Review  Officer 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department 

1660  Mission  Street 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  DEIR  Comments  on  491  Bayshore  Boulevard,  Home  Depot 
(DEIR2001.0062E) 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer, 

Overland  Traffic  Consultants  has  completed  the  review  of  the  traffic  study  contained 
in  the  DEIR  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  to  be  located  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard 
in  the  City  of  San  Francisco.  The  project  site  plan  is  shown  on  Figure  1 .  We  have 
determined  that  the  traffic  study  adequately  identifies  and  describes  the  potential 
significant  environmental  effects  of  the  project's  traffic  generation.  In  fact,  we  believe 
that  the  traffic  study  is  very  conservative  in  order  not  to  underestimate  any  potential 
short-term  and  long-term  traffic  effects. 

Summary  conclusions  from  our  review  are  presented  below  followed  by  a 
comprehensive  discussion  of  the  short  and  long  term  traffic  impacts  attributable  to 
the  proposed  Home  Depot  project. 

Summary  Conclusions 

•  The  application  of  a  series  of  conservative  assumptions  in  the  DEIR  Traffic 

Study  (e.g.,  no  mode  split,  no  reduction  for  pass-by  trips,  and  very  high  trip 
generation  rates)  overestimates  the  proposed  Home  Depot  traffic  volume  by 
approximately  20  percent. 

•  We  concur  with  the  DEIR  traffic  study  finding  that  the  project  traffic  volume  will 

not  substantially  change  the  existing  operating  conditions  at  the  study 
locations. 

•  The  project's  percent  contribution  to  the  traffic  delay  increases  should  be  the 

significance  measurement  test  for  determining  the  effects  of  the  project- 
related  traffic  impact.  The  DEIR  traffic  study  used  percentage  increases  in  the 

1 


A  Traffic  Engineering  and  Transportation  Planning.  Consulting  Services  Company 


traffic  volume  at  each  location  as  a  means  to  assess  the  effect  of  the  project- 
generated  traffic  on  201 5  cumulative  conditions.  However,  not  all  traffic 
volume  traveling  through  an  intersection  contributes  to  congestion,  only  that 
traffic  flow  in  the  critical  directions  (i.e.,  heaviest  conflicting  directional  flows) 
will  add  to  the  congestion  levels.  Therefore,  the  non-critical  project  traffic 
volume  would  not  add  to  the  cumulative  impacts. 

•  We  agree  with  the  finding  that  southbound  left-turn  phasing  is  needed  for 
Mission/Cortland  in  the  2015  conditions  analysis. 

Project  Trip  Generation 

The  DEIR  used  trip  generation  rates  derived  from  existing  Home  Depot  stores  in 
California  in  order  to  estimate  the  Home  Depot  traffic  because  of  the  "unique  nature" 
of  the  Home  Depot  facility.  These  trip  generation  rates  are  substantially  higher  than 
trip  rates  contained  in  the  Institute  of  Transportation  Engineers  (ITE)  Trip  Generation 
Handbook  the  industry  standard  used  to  estimate  traffic  volume  by  land  use,  for 
home  improvement  superstores.  In  our  opinion,  conservative  assumptions  in  the 
calculation  of  the  local  trip  rates  that  were  used  in  the  traffic  study  and  DEIR 
substantially  overestimates  the  project  traffic  volume  by  approximately  20  percent. 

For  the  reasons  listed  below,  a  comparative  impact  analysis  has  been  conducted 
utilizing  different  trip  generation  rates  but  the  same  traffic  assignment.  Our 
comments  regarding  the  local  trip  generation  calculations,  the  trip  generation  survey 
data  and  its  application  are  summarized  below: 

1 .  Traffic  generation  studies  by  ITE  typically  show  that  as  the  size  of  a  facility 
increases  the  trip  rate  per  square  foot  decreases.  The  trip  generation  data 
base  used  in  the  DEIR  study  consists  of  four  Home  Depot  stores  substantially 
smaller  in  size  than  that  being  proposed.  The  average  store  size  in  the  survey 
database  is  approximately  125,000  square  feet,  where  as  the  proposed  store 
is  153,100  square  feet.  Since  the  EIR  traffic  estimates  for  the  proposed 
Home  Depot  are  based  on  the  same  number  of  trips  per  1 ,000  square  feet  as 
the  smaller  survey  stores,  the  project  traffic  estimates  have  been  calculated 
using  a  higher  trip  rate  per  square  foot.  Plus,  only  the  Colma  store  was 
surveyed  for  the  weekend  peak  hour,  which  is  the  smallest  store  of  the  four 
(1 13,126  s.f.). 

2 

A  Traffic  Engineering  and  Transportation  Planning  Consulting  Services  Company 


2.  Pass-by  trips  were  not  considered  in  the  traffic  study  and  DEIR  even  though  a 
large  percent  of  customers  already  traveling  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  will  stop 
and  shop  at  the  proposed  store.  Home  Depot  stores  are  located  on  busy 
arterials  to  attract  motorists  already  traveling  on  the  street.  These  sites  attract 
a  number  of  trips  from  traffic  passing  the  site  on  the  way  to  another 
destination.  For  example,  many  trade  customers  are  already  shopping  in  the 
area  and  these  trips  will  not  be  new  to  the  area. 

The  pass-by  trip  is  not  a  new  trip  added  to  the  street  and  should  not  be 
considered  as  part  of  the  traffic  impact  analysis.  Diverted  trips  from  other 
roadways  are  new  trips  to  the  street  but  pass-by  trips  are  not.  Pass-by  trips 
are  closely  linked  to  the  size  of  the  store  and  the  volume  of  traffic  on  the  major 
arterials  roadways  like  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Limited  data  is  available,  but  ITE 
has  collected  pass-by  trip  data  for  home  improvement  superstores  which 
suggest  pass-by  trip  percentages  ranging  from  44  -  54%.  The  San  Diego 
Association  of  Governments  reports  that  retail  pass-by  percentages  are 
approximately  15%. 

We  have  applied  a  very  reasonable  10%  reduction  to  the  Home  Depot  traffic 
volume  to  account  for  the  pass-by  trips  because  trips  to  Home  Depot  are  not 
usually  made  by  necessity,  as  in  the  case  of  a  grocery  store,  and  people  may 
not  choose  to  leave  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  then  re-enter  during  the  street 
rush  hour.  During  the  off-peak  hours  on  Bayshore  Boulevard,  however, 
higher  Home  Depot  pass-by  trip  reductions  are  possible. 

3.  Sales  data  is  presented  in  the  traffic  study  and  DEIR  as  a  justification  to  use  a 
higher  trip  rate  to  capture  the  peak  month  of  activity.  However,  one  vehicle 
trip  can  result  in  a  $500  sale  or  a  $5  sale,  but  each  trip  has  the  same  impact. 
Therefore,  sales  volume  should  not  be  used  as  a  variable  (predictor)  of  traffic 
generation  or  as  a  justification  for  using  higher  traffic  generation  rates.  Sales 
data  has  not  been  considered  in  the  trip  rates  used  in  our  review  of  the 
project's  traffic  impacts. 

4.  Although  not  significant,  but  another  example  of  a  worst  case  assumption:  all 
trips  were  assumed  to  be  auto  even  though  employees  may  ride  public  transit 

3 

A  Traffic  Engineering,  and  Transportation  Planning.  Consulting  Services  Company 


Overland  Traffic  Consultants,  Inc. 


along  Bayshore  Boulevard,  a  transit  preferential  street.  This  is  especially  true 
in  light  of  Home  Depot's  commitments  to  hire  many  of  its  employees  from  the 
surrounding  community. 

Shown  in  Table  1  below  are  the  Home  Depot  DEIR  and  ITE  Trip  Generation 
Handbook  trip  rates.  Also  included  in  the  table  are  the  trip  rates  used  in  this  "peer" 
review.  It  should  be  noted  that  one  of  the  studies  included  in  the  ITE  Trip  Generation 
Handbook  (No.  126)  for  the  home  improvement  superstore  use  was  conducted  by 
the  local  Caltrans  District  4  office  in  San  Francisco. 


Table  1 

Comparison  of  Home  Depot  Trip  Generation  Rates 
(per  1,000  square  feet) 


Time  Period 


Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 


DEIR  Traffic 


ITE  Handbook 


PEER  Review 


Weekday  Peak  of  the 
Generator  (site) 


Study 

5.54  trips  / 1 ,000  s.f.     2.87  trips  / 1 ,000  s.f.     4.26  trips  / 1 ,000  s.f. 

3.84  trips  / 1 ,000  s.f.     5.33  trips  / 1 ,000  s.f. 


6.93  trips  / 1 ,000  s.f 

Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour     8.28  trips  / 1 ,000  s.f.      5.40  trips  / 1,000  s.f.     6.39  trips  / 1 ,000  s.f. 


The  trip  rates  used  in  this  peer  review  are  based  in  part  from  the  DEIR  data  base  and 
the  comments  listed  above.  Per  our  discussion  point  number  1  above,  we  have 
selected  the  San  Jose  store  (144,521  s.f.)  for  the  PM  peak  hour  trip  rate  because  it  is 
roughly  comparable  in  size  to  the  proposed  store.  It  should  be  noted  that  no 
additional  adjustments  were  made  to  the  trip  rate  used  in  this  review  to  account  for 
the  fact  that  the  San  Jose  store  is  9,000  square  feet  smaller  than  the  proposed 
store  . 

The  San  Jose  weekday  PM  rate  has  been  increased  25  percent  for  the  weekday 
peak  of  the  site,  and  50  percent  for  the  Saturday  midday  peak  hour,  consistent  with 
the  procedures  in  the  DEIR  and  supported  by  ITE.  Table  2  shows  the  trip  generation 
rates  used  in  the  peer  review  to  determine  the  project  traffic  volume  at  the  project 
driveways.  Traffic  volume  for  the  off-site  study  locations  are  then  reduced  by  the 

4 

A  Traffic  Engineering  and  Transportation  Planning  Consulting  Services  Company 


conservative  pass-by  percentage  (10%)  to  account  for  capturing  the  existing  traffic 
volume  passing  the  site  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Table  3  shows  the  trip  generation 
values  used  in  the  EIR  study  and  the  Peer  review  analysis.  Attached  Figures  3  and  4 
illustrate  the  project  traffic  volumes  at  the  study  intersections  used  in  the  peer  review 
and  the  DEIR  analysis.  These  graphics  show  the  reduced  project  generated  traffic 
volumes  at  the  study  intersections  and  streets  such  as  Cortland  Avenue. 


Table  2 

Recommended  Home  Depot  Trip  Generation  Rates 
(per  1 ,000  square  feet) 


Total 

Jn 

Out 

Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 

4.26 

2.09 

2.17 

Weekday  Peak  of  Generator 

5.33 

2.93 

2.40 

Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 

6.39 

3.39 

3.00 

Table  3 

Comparison  of  Trip  Generation  Values 

DEIR  Traffic  Study  Peer  Review 


Total 

In 

Out 

Total 

Id 

Out 

Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 

848 

409 

439 

652 

320 

332 

(with  10%  pass-by) 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

587 

288 

299 

Weekday  Peak  of  Generator 

1,060 

551 

509 

816 

449 

367 

(with  10%  pass-by) 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

734 

404 

330 

Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 

1,268 

657 

611 

978 

519 

459 

(with  10%  pass-by) 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

880 

467 

413 

DEIR  Significance  Criteria 

It  is  important  to  understand  and  correctly  apply  the  criteria  used  in  the  DEIR  for 
determining  the  significance  of  the  traffic  impacts  associated  with  the  proposed 
project.  The  significance  criteria  as  described  in  the  DEIR  traffic  study  are  provided 
below.  Please  note  that  a  significance  criterion  is  not  provided  in  the  DEIR  for 
unsignalized  intersections;  therefore,  it  is  assumed  that  the  signalized  criteria  were 
also  applied  in  the  DEIR  to  unsignalized  intersections. 

5 


A  Traffic  Engineering  and  Transportation  Planning  Consulting  Services  Company 


•  Freeway  On-Ramps  -  The  operational  impact  on  the  freeway  on-ramps  is 

considered  significant  when  the  project-related  traffic  causes  the  on- 
ramp/freeway  junction  level  of  service  to  deteriorate  from  LOS  D  or  better  to 
LOS  E  or  F,  or  from  LOS  E  to  LOS  F.  In  addition,  the  project  would  have  a 
significant  effect  on  the  environment  if  it  would  contribute  substantially  to  the 
ramp  congestion  already  at  unacceptable  levels  (over  5.0  percent  contribution 
to  the  ramp  volumes),  such  that  the  period  of  peak  congestion  would  be 
substantially  lengthened. 

•  Signalized  Intersections  -  The  operational  impact  on  signalized  intersections  is 

considered  significant  when  project-related  traffic  causes  the  intersection  level 
of  service  to  deteriorate  from  LOS  D  or  better  to  LOS  E  or  F,  or  from  LOS  E  to 
LOS  F.  The  project  may  result  in  significant  adverse  impacts  at  intersections 
that  operate  at  LOS  E  or  F  under  Existing  Condition  (baseline)  depending 
upon  the  magnitude  of  the  project's  contribution  to  the  worsening  of  the 
average  delay  per  vehicle.  In  addition,  the  project  would  have  a  significant 
adverse  effect  if  it  would  cause  major  traffic  hazards  or  contribute 
considerable  to  cumulative  traffic  increases  that  would  cause  deterioration  in 
levels  of  service  to  unacceptable  levels. 

Short  Term  Impacts  (Existing  +  Project) 

We  concur  with  the  DEIR  Traffic  Study  finding  that  the  project  will  not  substantially 
change  the  existing  operating  conditions  at  the  study  locations  for  either  the  weekday 
or  Saturday  study  periods.  The  study  intersections  and  freeway  ramp  locations  are 
illustrated  in  Figure  2.  As  shown  in  Tables  4  and  5,  when  2000  HCM  procedures 
area  used,  the  project  traffic  does  not  cause  the  level  of  service  at  any  of  the  study 
locations  to  deteriorate  below  LOS  D.  In  fact,  all  operating  conditions  are  at  or  below 
Level  of  Service  D.  Attached  Figures  5  and  6  illustrate  the  "Existing  +  Project"  traffic 
volumes  at  the  study  locations  used  in  this  review. 

We  also  concur  with  the  conclusion  in  the  DEIR  Traffic  Study  on  page  4-3  that 
states:  "minor  changes  to  the  on-ramp  volumes  (e.g.,  with  the  addition  of  the  new 
vehicle  trips  generated  by  the  Proposed  project)  would  not  result  in  substantial 
changes  to  the  density,  and  correspondingly,  the  operating  conditions  of  the  study 
on-ramps." 


6 

A  Traffic  Engineering  and  Transportation  Planning  Consulting  Services  Company 


It  should  be  noted  that  all  locations  in  this  review,  including  the  ramp  junctions,  are 
calculated  to  be  operating  at  LOS  D  or  better  using  the  same  EIR  data  values  (i.e., 
final  volume  adjustments,  saturation  flows  and  signal  timing  parameters).  This 
finding  differs  from  the  reported  DEIR  level  of  service  at  two  of  the  study  freeway  on- 
ramps  which  were  reported  in  the  EIR  to  operate  at  LOS  F:  I  -  280  WB  ramp  @ 
Alemany  and  the  1 01  NB  ramp  @  Bayshore/Cesar  Chavez.  The  reason  for  the 
different  level  of  service  calculations  is  due  to  the  capacity  software  used  in  the  two 
studies.  The  DEIR  study  is  based  on  the  Traffix  V7.0  software  which  utilizes  a  more 
conservative  1994  version  of  the  Highway  Capacity  Manual  (HCM).  This  review 
uses  the  most  current  version  of  the  Highway  Capacity  Manual  software  package 
HCM2000  V4.1a.  Briefly,  the  1994  Highway  Capacity  Manual  was  updated  in  1997 
and  2000  resulting  in  differences  in  the  reported  level  of  service  thresholds.  The 
HCM  corrections  and  updates  are  based  on  further  research  and  studies  funded  by 
the  National  Cooperative  Highway  Research  Program  (NCHRP)  and  the  Transit 
Cooperative  Research  Program.  The  Federal  Highway  Administration  also 
contributed  to  the  research  efforts. 

Table  4 

Freeway  Ramp  Junction  Level  of  Service 
(2000  HCM  Procedures) 


Freeway  Ramp  Location 

A.  101  NB@ 
Alemany/lndustrial 

B.  101  NB  @  Bayshore/Cesar 
Chavez 

C.  101  SB@ 
Alemany/lndustrial 

D.  101  SB  (5)  San  Bruno 


Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 
Existing        Existing  +  Project 
Density    LOS    Density   LOS  A 
24.6       C  0.0 


24.6 


21.5 


23.6 


23.7 


C 
C 
C 
C 


Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 
Existing        Existing  +  Project 
Density    LOS    Density   LOS  A 
21.6       C  0.0 


21.6 


21.5 


23.6 


23.8 


0.0  23.1 


C  0.0 


C  0.1 


23.5 


18.1 


C 
C 
C 
B 


23.1 


23.5 


18.3 


0.0 


C  0.0 


B  0.2 


E.  280  WB  @  Alemany 


23.3 


23.3 


C  0.0 


17.0 


17.1 


B  0.1 


7 

A  Traffic  Engineering  and  Transportation  Planning  Consulting  Services  Company 


Table  5 
Intersection  Level  of  Service 
(2000  HCM  Procedures) 

Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour  Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 

Intersection  Existing         Existing  +  Project         Existing         Existing  +  Project 


Signalized 

Delay 

LOS 

Delay 

LOS 

A 

Delay 

LOS 

Delay 

LOS 

A 

Intersections: 

1.  Bayshore/Jerrold/ 
101  NB  Ramp 

29.0 

C 

29.8 

C 

+  0.8 

31.7 

C 

32.5 

C 

+  0.8 

2.  Bayshore/Oakdale 

26.1 

C 

26.6 

C 

+  0.5 

18.7 

B 

20.1 

C 

+  1.4 

3.  Bayshore/Cortland 

17.6 

B 

36.6 

D 

+  19.0 

13.3 

B 

45.8 

D 

+  32.5 

4.  Bayshore/lndustrial 

36.5 

D 

39.4. 

D 

+  2.9 

28.7 

C 

30.7 

C 

+  2.0 

5.  Bayshore/Silver 

23.5 

C 

23.0 

u 

+  4.5 

16.5 

B 

A  ~7  A 

17.1 

B 

+  0.6 

6.  Alemany/Putman/ 
101  SB  Ramp 

16.0 

B 

16.1 

B 

+  0.1 

24.8 

C 

25.7 

C 

+  0.9 

7.  Alemany/San 

21.2 

C 

22.6 

C 

+  1.4 

21.0 

C 

25.7 

C 

+  4.7 

Bruno/101  NB  Ramp 

8.  Alemany/Cut- 

7.2 

A 

7.5 

A 

+  0.3 

5.2 

A 

6.0 

A 

+  0.8 

Thru/101  NB  Ramp 

9.  Industrial/Cut-Thru 

7.9 

A 

8.1 

A 

+  0.2 

6.0 

A 

6.1 

A 

+  0.1 

10.  Mission/Cortland 

26.7 

C 

33.2 

C 

+  6.5 

16.3 

B 

40.3 

D 

+  24.0 

Stop  -Controlled  Intersections: 

1 1 .  Cortland/Andover 

13.49 

B 

15.14 

C 

+  1.65 

12.2 

B 

14.56 

B 

+  2.36 

12.  Cortland/Folsom 

15.4 

C 

16.6 

c 

+  1.2 

13.9 

B 

16.3 

C 

+  2.4 

13.  Oakdale/Loomis 

23.9 

C 

25.89 

D 

+  1.99 

14.89 

B 

16.08 

C 

+1.19 

14.  Industrial/Loomis 

25.0 

C 

30.5 

D 

+  5.5 

13.0 

B 

15.4 

C 

+  2.4 

*  Delay  -  seconds 

8 

A  Traffic  Engineering  and  Transportation  Planning  Consulting  Services  Company 


Long  Term  Cumulative  Traffic  Impacts 


We  disagree  with  the  means  used  to  assess  the  effect  of  the  project  traffic  on  the 
2015  cumulative  conditions.  The  project's  percent  contribution  to  the  traffic  delay 
increases  should  be  the  significance  measurement  test  for  determining  the  effects  of 
the  project-related  traffic  impact.  The  DEIR  traffic  study  used  percentage  increases 
in  the  traffic  volume  at  each  location  as  a  means  to  assess  the  effect  of  the  project- 
generated  traffic  on  2015  cumulative  conditions.  However,  not  all  traffic  volume 
traveling  through  an  intersection  contributes  to  congestion,  only  that  traffic  flow  in  the 
critical  directions  (i.e.,  heaviest  conflicting  directional  flows)  will  add  to  the  congestion 
levels.  Therefore,  the  non-critical  project  traffic  volume  should  not  add  to  the 
cumulative  impacts. 

We  also  believe  the  finding  regarding  the  project  traffic  impacts  to  the  existing 
freeway  ramp  conditions  also  applies  to  the  2015  freeway  ramp  conditions,  i.e., 
"minor  changes  to  the  on-ramp  volumes  (e.g.,  with  the  addition  of  the  new  vehicle 
trips  generated  by  the  proposed  project)  would  not  result  in  substantial  changes  to 
the  density,  and  correspondingly,  the  operating  conditions  of  the  study  on-ramps." 
Table  6  shows  the  2015  cumulative  conditions  for  the  freeway  ramp  locations.  Table 
7  shows  that  the  project  related  traffic  will  not  increase  the  density  levels  on  the 
freeway  ramp  junctions  at  LOS  F.  Attached  Figures  7  and  8  illustrate  the  "2015 
Cumulative"  traffic  volumes  at  the  study  locations  used  in  this  review. 

If  you  have  any  questions  regarding  this  analysis,  call  me  and  I  will  be  happy  to  go 
over  our  review  with  you. 


Sincerely, 


Jerry  T.  Overland 


Attachments 


9 

A  Traffic  Engineering  and  Transportation  Planning  Consulting  Services  Company 


Overland  traffic  Consultants,  inc. 


Table  6 

2015  Freeway  Ramp  Junction  Level  of  Service 
Cumulative  Conditions 
(2000  HCM  Procedures) 

Weekday 


Saturday 


Freeway  Ramp  Location 

Density 

LOS 

Density 

LOS 

A.  101  NB(5 

1  Alemany/lndustrial 

27.3 

F 

23.7 

C 

B.  101  NB(5 

)  Bayshore/Cesar  Chavez 

22.6 

F 

24.5 

F 

C.  101  SB  (5 

1  Alemany/lndustrial 

26.4 

F 

26.1 

F 

D.  101  SB  (5 

)  San  Bruno 

26.5 

F 

20.2 

C 

E.  280  WB( 

2)  Alemany 

24.9 

F 

18.5 

B 

Table  7 

Freeway  Ramp  Junction  Level  of  Service  Impacts  at  LOS  F  Locations 
(2000  HCM  Procedures) 


Weekday  PM  Peak  Hour 

2015  w/o  Project  2015  + Project 

Freeway  Ramp  Location     Density    LOS  Density   LOS  A 

A.  101  NB@  27.3  F  27.3  F  0.0 
Alemany/lndustrial 

B.  101  NB  @  Bayshore/Cesar       22.6         F  22.6        F  0.0 

Chavez 

C.  101  SB  @  26.4  F  26.4  F  0.0 
Alemany/lndustrial 

D.  101  SB  @  San  Bruno             26.4         F  26.5        F  0.1 

E.  280  WB  @  Alemany               24.9         F  24.9        F  0.0 


Saturday  Midday  Peak  Hour 
Existing  Existing  +  Project 

Density    LOS   Density  LOS 


24.5 
26.1 


24.5 
26.1 


0.0 
0.0 


10 

A  Traffic  Engineering  and  Transportation  Planning  Consulting  Services  Company 


FIGURE  1 


SITE  PLAN 


Overland  Traffic  Consultants,  Inc. 


25876  The  Old  Road  U307,  Santa  Clarita,  CA  91381 
(661)799-8423  v.  (661)799-8456  f,  OTCINC@attbi.com 


HOME  DEPOT- SAN  FRANCISCO  \  SITE-PIAN 


AND  FREEWAY  RAMPS  25876  The  Old  Road  H307,  Santa  Clarita,  OA  91381 

(661)799-8423  v,  (661)799-84561,  OTCINC@anbi.com 


HOME  DEPOT  ■  SAN  FRANCISCO  \STUDY-INTS 


o 

ayshore  /  Jarrold  /  U  S.  101  NB  Off 


o 

Bayshore  /  Oakdale 


o 

Bayshore  /  Cortland 


o 

Bayshore  /  Induslrial 


in 

CO 

^  CO 

CN  "~- 

fr—  4/.3 

I  u 

! 

t  r 

<D 

■^r 

C7> 

m 
co 

i 

80  /  61 
—  55/42 
r~  207  /  1 57 
! 

51  /  42  — 

c 

CD 

CD 

CO 

110/77 
27/  19  • 


^—  5/4 
—  32/22 
,—  6/4 
! 


G 

Bayshore  /  Silver 


Alemany  /  Putnam  /  U.S.  101  SB  Off  Alemany  /  San  Bruno  /  U.S.  101  SB  On         Alemany  /  Cut-Thru  /  U.S.  101  NB  Off 


T-  CO 
1—  (V) 

^  v  in 

CD  CD 
t-   LO  N 

J  \  c 

1 

S-7/5 

O 

o)  a  ■* 
co  co  co 

T-     T-  LO 

—  77/  52  \ 

k  I 

V 

14/10— ' 

1                         72/51  — - 

ID 
"* 

LO 
CD 

p-                       84  /  59  — 

CO 
CM 

13/  9  — ' 
84  /  59  — 

r 

ro 

co 
in 

o 

Industrial  /  Cut-Thru 


Mission  /  Cortland 


Cortland  /  Andover 


161  /  110 


o 

CM 

—  22/15 

[_ 

r~  25/  17 

! 

r 

CO 

CO 

CM 

Oakdale  /  Loomis 


Industrial  /  Loomis 


—  4/  3 

.—  20/  14 
T 

4/  3  — 

4/3- 

4/3- 
22/15  - 

CO 

CM  h- 

CO  t- 
CO  *- 

i 

S-  10/7 

—  5/4 

i 

33  /  23  —> 

513  — 

U  S  101  NB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany  /  Industrial 


U.S.  101  SB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany  /  Industrial 


U  S.  101  SB  On-Ramp 
from  San  Bruno 


I-280  WB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany 


FIGURE  3 


Cortland  /  Folsom 


|—  2/  1 

♦—2/1 

CN 

—  47/32 

CN 

—  51/35 

r-  21  1 
f 

r—  211 
I 

43/  30  — 

r 

47  /  33  — - 

r 

CN 

CM 

U.S.  101  NB  On-Ramp 
from  Bayshore  /  C.  Chavez 


LEGEND 


XX /XX  =  EIR/  ADJUSTED 


COMPARISON  OF  PROJECT  TRAFFIC  VOLUMES 
EIR  vs.  ADJUSTED 
WEEKDAY  PM  PEAK  HOUR 


Overland  Traffic  Consultants,  Inc. 


25876  The  Old  Road  #307,  Santa  Clarita,  CA  91381 
(661)799-8423  v,  (661)799-8456  f.  OTCINC@attbi.com 


HOME  DEPOT-  SAN  FRANCISCO  I  WEEKDAY-PM 


o 

Baysho/e  /  Jeirold  /US  101  NB  OH 


o 

Bayshore  /  Oakdale 


o 

Bayshore  /  Cortland 


o 

Bayshore  /  Industrial 


in 

1 

■~-  in 

CO 
T 

T-  CO 

i 

-5/4 

in 

'—111/100 
—  76/69 

I 

.  —  6/  5 
! 

—  288  /  260 

! 

i 

If 

82  /  77  — 

c 

"~  CD 

CM 
CO 
CM 

co 

o 

CD 
CD 
CN 

T~  CO 

s  ^  •*> 

CO  o  ^ 

Jit- 

U/7 
—  44/36 
,.—  8/6 

! 

1 

177/127  — 

f  r 

44  /  36  — - 

O  CO 

H  cn 

o 

CM 

© 

Bayshore  /  Silver 


o 

Alemany  /  Putnam  /  US  101  SB  Off 


Alemany  /  San  Bruno  /  U  S  101  SB  On         Alemany  /  Cul-Thru  /US  101  NB  Off 


—•21  /  17 
 78  /  63 

i 

'—11/9 

mm  «t 

t-  r-  CD 
O)  DC  CJ1 

—  107/37              \    '—  <S 

k  I 

y 

1 

23/  19  — ' 

1                         116/93  — 

I 

CO 
CO 

o 

f—                    135/114  — 

CD 
CD 

18/  15  ~--/ 
135/  114  — 

r 

CO 

r-- 

CD 
CO 

Induslrial  /  Cul-Thru 


Mission  /  Cortland 


(J) 


Cortland  /  Andover 


Cortland  /  Folsom 


223/  147 


CN 

1 

CO 

1 

'-—3/2 

co 

1 

—  3/2 

CM 
CO 

—  29  /  24 

rO 

—  65/53 

co 

—  71  /  58 

[_ 

,  —  36  /  29 

! 

—  3/2 

! 

u 

r~  3  /  2 
1 

i 

69  /  58   

c 

76  /  64  — 

37/31 

ro 

co 

CO 

Oakdale  /  Loomis 


Industrial  /  Loomis 


0 


—  6/5 
-  33/28 

I 

6/5  

"1  f 

6  /  5 

! 

-~  CM 

m  -» 

CO 

cm  m 
in  t- 

^—  16/13 

 8/7 

i 

52  /  44  — ; 

7/  6  — 

U.S.  101  NB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany  /  Industrial 


U.S.  101  NB  On-Ramp 
from  Bayshore  /  C.  Chavez 


U  S  101  SB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany  /  Industrial 


U.S.  101  SB  On-Ramp 
from  San  Bruno 


I-280  W8  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany 


LEGEND 


XX /XX  =  EIR/ ADJUSTED 


FIGURE  4 


COMPARISON  OF  PROJECT  TRAFFIC  VOLUMES 
EIR  vs.  ADJUSTED 
SATURDAY  MIDDAY  PEAK  HOUR 


Overland  Traffic  Consultants,  Inc. 


25876  The  Old  Road  #307,  Santa  Clarita,  CA  91381 
(661)799-8423  v,  (661)799-8456  f,  OTCINC@attbi.com 


HOME  OEPOT  ■  SAN  FRANCISCO  I  SA  T-MIODAY 


o 

Bayshore  /  Jerrold  /  U  S  101  NB  Off 


o 

Bayshore  /  Oakdale 


o 

Bayshore  /  Cortland 


o 

Bayshore  /  Industrial 


1 

'•-  299 

 264 

1 

1130  — ' 

i  — 

70  

CM  O 

o 

Bayshore  /  Silver 


CO 

in  cn  rr 

■>-  -<T  rO 

1 

'—  56 
—  255 

J  \  L. 

—  38 

1 

1 

-i  f  r 

136  — 
358  — - 

CD  O  O 

o  m  o 
r>  o>  t- 

285  — 

1 

Industrial  /  Cut-Thru 


Oakdale  /  Loomis 


U.S.  101  SB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany  /  Industrial 


—  904 

-  •  589 

1 

—  316 

-  540 

1 

CM  Tf 

m  •-  m 

— 1  i  '  — 

i 

-  61 

 42 

>—  157 
1 

in  cn  in 
f-  CM 
(D  05 

J  \  u 

i 

v—  123 
—  783 
—  79 

! 

1  ,•— 

O  T- 

h»  co 

t 

139  — ' 

42  

151  — S 
1 

|  r- 

co  «-  to 
7t  wr 
CN  O 

i 

664  — ' 

447   

36  — , 
1 

~  f  r 

OV  (D  t 

r-  n  in 
cm  r- 

o 

Alemany  I  Pulnam  /  U  S  101  SB  Off 


o  o 

Alemany  /  San  Bruno  /  U.S.  101  SB  On         Alemany  /  Cul-Thru  /  U.S.  101  NB  Off 


CO  CO 

co  r-- 

231 

JL 

-  1507 

68-' 

n !  r 

m  t  w 

(D  D  N 

1145  

Mission  /  Cortland 


Cortland  /  Andover 


Induslriat  /  Loomis 


O)  CN 
r  O  r 

U 

 571 

t—  60 
1 

cn 

CO 

i-  m  ■<- 

J  i  U 

♦-29 
—  856 
,—  10 
1 

67  J 
554  - 
39 

1 

~i  !  r 

cn  co  r- 

(N  ID  N 

I 

68  — • 
530  -  - 
8  -> 
I 

~  t  r 

w  n  id 

U.S.  101  NB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany  /  Industrial 


U.S.  101  SB  On-Ramp 
from  San  Bruno 


I-280  WB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany 


FIGURE  5 


Cortland  /  Folsom 


—  1696 

o>  r> 
co  m 
r--  1- 

L  ,27 
,—  182 
! 

o  O  tT 
CN  CN  CN 

J  i  u 

1 

^—  29 
-  374 

.—  47 

r 

r-. 

in  co 

J  i  U 

1 

17 
-—  394 
<—  25 
1 

i 

o 
m 

!  r 

<r>  co 
in  ■«- 

i 

28  -1 

291  

45  — i 
! 

-i  t  r 

cn  r^-  co 
t  r-  m 

i 

12 
267   

23  — , 
t 

*i  f  r 

O)  N  O) 

CN  CN 

U.S.  101  NB  On-Ramp 
from  Bayshore  /  C  Chavez 


EXISTING  PLUS  PROJECT 

TRAFFIC  VOLUMES 
WEEKDAY  PM  PEAK  HOUR 


T  Overland  Traffic  Consultants,  Inc. 


25876  The  Old  Road  U307,  Santa  Clarita.  CA  91381 
(661)799-8423  v,  (661)799-8456  f,  OTCINC@attbi.com 


HOME  DEPOT- SAN  FRANCISCO  I  PM-EX'PROJ-WKDAY 


o 

Bayshore  /  Jerrold  /US  101  NB  Off 


o 

Bayshore  /  Oakdale 


o 

Bayshore  /  Cortland 


o 

Bayshore  /  Industrial 


1 

v-  152 
-  134 

to  n 
m  t 

i 

312 

-  230 

1 

oi  cd  in 

■"3-  CM 

i-  m 

J  i  ^ 

i 

100 
-  69 
,—  260 
! 

l 

1588  — 
69  

'  c 

m  ro 
in  *- 

1  — 

in  o 

Ol  CM 
CM  i- 

i 

232  — ' 
77  — 
176—.. 
1 

n  I  r 

co  r-.  cm 

N  CO 
r-   O  CN 

o 

Bayshore  /  Silver 


Industrial  /  Cut-Thru 


Oakdale  /  Loomis 


U.S.  101  SB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany  /  Industrial 


CO  CO 

1*-  •* 
tj  n  co 

J  i  ;  - 

1 

130 
 457 

—  66 

t 

i 

665  —' 

-  !  r 

t-  m  oi 
co  co  m 

T~.  CD 

381  

53  — , 
1 

o  o  o 

Alemany  /  Putnam  /  U  S  101  SB  OH  Alemany  /  San  Bcuno  /  U.S.  101  SB  On         Alemany  /  Cul-Thru  /  U  S.  101  NB  Off 


CM  r-  h- 
t-  P)  CM 

J  {  L_ 

Ui 

—  200 
—  37 

! 

CO  T- 

J  L 

'—  212 
—  894 

in 
I 

i 

151  — J 

258   

253  — -i 
1 

CD  O  O 

m  r--  to 

CN  ID 

225  — ' 
841  - 

:    I  ! 

(C  - 

r;  (\  s 

in  co  n 


105  — 
745  — 

459  — - 


CD 


Mission  /  Cortland 


Cortland  /  Andover 


Industrial  /  Loomis 


m  o  o 

y-  CO  r- 

J  \  i— 

t-  157  0 
—  382                              S  £ 

r73          -J  u 

'-23 
 481 

1 

29  — ' 

360  

47 

! 

"    (    r  125-' 
•<r  \n  cm 

rt  cn  co                             3gg  ^ 

11  — , 
1 

~i  c 

U.S.  101  NB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany  /  Industrial 


U.S.  101  SB  On-Ramp 
from  San  Bruno 


I-280  WB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany 


FIGURE  6 


266 
573 
746 


J 


Cortland  /  Folsom 


-  1093 

in  o 

CD  <N 

)  u 

i 

'—  190 
,—  175 
! 

m  o  o 

JjL 

^—  28 
 344 

r32 

in  •<* 

i 

^  11 
—  336 

r12 

in 

f  r 

co  m 
in  t- 

23-' 
350  -— 

"  ') 

-i  )  r 

to  co  r-. 

15  — 
356  — 
22  — > 
t 

-  t  r 

U.S.  101  NB  On-Ramp 
from  Bayshore  /  C  Chavez 


EXISTING  PLUS  PROJECT 
TRAFFIC  VOLUMES 
SATURDAY  MIDDAY  PEAK  HOUR 


3? 


Overland  Traffic  Consultants,  Inc. 


25876  The  Old  Road  U307,  Santa  Clarita,  CA  91381 
(661)799-8423  v,  (661)799-8456  f,  OTCINC@attbi.com 


HOME  DEPOT  ■  SANfRANCISCO\MIO-FX*PROJSAT 


Bayshore  /  Jerrold  /  U  S.  101  NB  Off 


I 

l—  344 

-  304 

1 

1300 

f  r 

n  ^* 

81  

o  id 

o 

Bayshore  /  Oakdale 


00  ro 
id  h- 
cn  cd 

1  1  - 


--  359 
-  617 


© 

Bayshore  /  Corlland 


o 

Bayshore  /  Industrial 


CD   CI  ID 

1 

—  61 
—  42 
,—  157 
! 

^  n  n 

m  CO  CN 

r-  cd 

|    I  | 

t 

—  136 

 865 

.—  89 
! 

i 

160  — ' 

~]  t  r 

cn  co  co 

1 

732  — ' 

-i  !  i 

ro  oo  eg 

42  — 

CO  CD  T 

484  — - 

t-  cn  to 
ro  r-- 

174  — , 
1 

41  — , 
1 

©  ©  ©  o 

Bayshore  /  Silver  Alemany  /  Putnam  /  U.S.  101  SB  Off  Alemany  /  San  Bruno  /  U.S.  101  SB  On         Alemany  /  Cul-Thru  /  U.S.  101  NB  Off 


CO  o 
r-  in  XJ 

J  I  L 

L62 

—  293 
,—  44 
! 

cm  -%r 

O  «- 
CM  CM 

J  l_ 

^—  266 
 1648 

m  i- 
co  ro 

i 

151  — ' 
412  - 
328  — 

~  I  r 

CM   CO  LO 

in  o 

CO  o  i- 

( 

78  — 
1237   

*i  f  r 

to  o 
r--  r-  co 

i 

91  — ' 
714  — 
692  — , 
1 

i  i 

m  r- 
cn 

CD 

©  <E>  <J>  <£) 

Industrial  /  Cut-Thru  Mission  /  Cortland  Cortland  /  Andover  Cortland  /  Folsom 


r--  cd 
o  r- 

CD  t- 

1  1 

—1773  T 

i 

l-  147  SS° 

r207        J  \  u 

u 

—  438                          °  cd  5! 

r52         -J  i  ^ 

1__  22 
—  457 

r32 

CD 

r- 
m 

f  r  32j 

St                                  347  — 
52  — , 
1 

")   '  ^                     14  J 

cd  o  cn 

cn  cn  cd  315  

26  — , 
! 

~i  l  r 

CO    CO  t- 

co  rO 

Oakdale  /  Loomis 


Industrial  /  Loomis 


CN  r- 
CM  CO  «- 

L13 

—  -  652 

r77 

CO 

ID  CO 
t-  (D  CN 

J  |  u 

i 

—  42 
—  979 
12 

! 

i 

77 
633—- 
45 

! 

-i  f  r 

<D  r~  -<T 
CM  (D  cn 

1 

82  —> 
604  - 

9-| 

— ,   1  r~ 

l   i  1 

1  P)  N 

U.S.  101  NB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany  /  Industrial 


U.S.  101  NB  On-Ramp 
from  Bayshore  /  C.  Chavez 


U.S.  101  SB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany  /  Industrial 


U.S.  101  SB  On-Ramp 
from  San  Bruno 


I-280  WB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany 


FIGURE  7 


2015  CUMULATIVE 
TRAFFIC  VOLUMES 
WEEKDAY  PM  PEAK  HOUR 


Overland  Traffic  Consultants,  Inc. 


25876  The  Old  Road  U307.  Santa  Clarita,  CA  91381 
(66 1) 799-8423  v,  (661)799-8456  f,  OTCINC@attbi.com 


HOME  DEPOT  ■  SAN  FRANCISCO  \  PM701 SCUMUL-WKDAY 


Bayshore  /  Jerrold  /  U  S  101  NB  Off 


O 

Bayshore  /  Oakdale 


o 

Bayshore  /  Cortland 


o 

Bayshore  /  Industrial 


1826 

79  - 


cn  m 

1                                                                  T  O 

■                                            to  m 

l-  175                              ,  , 
—  154                                1  '-- 

i 

—  353 
-  258 

! 

r»  O  *Q 

J  TL 

1 

'•—  100 

—  69 
•—  260 
! 

cm  co  cn 
miff) 

J  \  L 

1 

140 

 486 

,—  72 
! 

1666  — 
141  ^ 

1386  — 
131  | 

77  — ■' 

82  

202  — 

O  O  CO 

CM   CNJ  CM 

i 

709  — •' 
409  — 
61  — , 
t 

-  \  r 

CO  CM  CO 
O  1  CO 

cm  r*- 

o 

Bayshore  /  Silver 


o 

Industrial  /  Cut-Thru 


Oakdale  /  Loomis 


co  m  cm 

*-  CO  *- 
J    |  L: 

'-181 
-  433 
,—  87 
I 

33  — ^ 
407  — 

"  1 

n  I  r 

-J  O)  o 
'T  CM  O 

U.S.  101  SB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany  /  Industrial 


Atemany  /  Putnam  /  U  S  101  SB  OH 


Alemany  /  San  Bruno  /  U.S.  101  SB  On 


co  cn 
co  m  m 

■  JTL 

1 

^  45 
-  23 

r43 

r-  CO 

oo  r- 

J  L. 

1 

'  —  244 
—  1008 

163  — 
297  — 
291 

*i  f  r 

Tf  co  cn 
cn  co  co 
cn  r- 

t 

259  — 
936  — 

!    I  ! 
-no 

1  ^  00 

co  o 
r-~  m  cn 

(/ 

i 

121  — ' 

CD  CM 

00 

830   

528  — , 
! 

o 

Alemany /Cut-Thru /US  101  NB  Off 


(Jj) 


Mission  /  Cortland 


Cortland  /  Andover 


Industrial  /  Loomis 


CD 

CO  O 
*-  tf 

1 

'—  39 
544 

145  J 

■*)  r 

CO  CO 

451  - 

13  — . 
1 

U  S  101  NB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany  /  Industrial 


U.S  101  SB  On-Ramp 
(rom  San  Bruno 


I-280  WB  On-Ramp 
from  Alemany 


FIGURE  8 


306 
639  — y 
856   


Cortland  /  Folsom 


—  1212 

cn  cn 

1  CO 
h-  CN 

i  u 

1 

■—  226 
,—  201 
1 

in  cm  in 

♦-34 

 403 

—  39 
1 

oo 

i-   IT)  1- 

L14 

 387 

(-16 

o 

f  r 

CO  CM 
T  Is- 
CD  <- 

i 

26  — J 
405  — 

43  ~) 

*i  f  r 

T  r--  o 
co  in 

i 

17  — ' 
404  - 

"  1 

n  i  r 

o  m  cm 

CN  lO 

U.S.  101  NB  On-Ramp 
from  Bayshore  /  C.  Chavez 


2015  CUMULATIVE 
TRAFFIC  VOLUMES 
SATURDAY  MIDDAY  PEAK  HOUR 


Overland  Traffic  Consultants,  Inc. 


25876  The  Old  Road  U307,  Santa  Clarita,  CA  91381 
(66 1) 799-8423  v,  (661)799-8456  f,  OTCINC@attbi.corn 


HOME  DEPOT  ■  SAN  FRANCISCO  I  PM2015CUMUL  SA 1 -MIDDAY 


A.  Shimko 
Exhibit  B 


February  2005  Home  Depot  Comments  &  Responses 
200 1 .0062E  49 1  Bayshore  Blvd./ 1 96  Loomis  Street 


Preliminary  Draft  -  Not  Reviewed 
for  Accuracy  -  Subject  to  Change 


I 


! 


By:  BASELINE;  510  420  1707;  Jul-11-03  11:25;  Page  2 


gASELINj? 

ENVIRON  MEN  T A  L  CONSULTING 


1 1  July  2003 
Y3289 


Anna  Shimko 

Cassidy  Shimko  and  Dawson 

20  California  St.  Suite  500   ..\  '. 

San  Francisco,  CA  941 1 1  . 

Subject:  Limited  Air  Quality  Analysis,  Home  Depot,  491  Bayshore  Boulevard,  San  Francisco, 
California 

Dear  Ms.  Shimko: 

At  your  request,  we  have  conducted  a  limited  air  quality  analysis  for  the  Home  Depot  project  located 
at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard  in  San  Francisco,  California.  The  purposes  of  the  limited  air  quality 
analysis  were  to:  1)  estimate  regional  reactive  organic  compound  (ROG)  emissions  generated  from 
additional  vehicular  traffic  associated  with  the  proposed  project,  based  on  Overland  Traffic 
Consultant's  (OTC)  July  2003  Peer  Review  Home  Depot  Traffic  Study;  and  2)  compare  the 
estimated  ROG  emissions  with  those  presented  in  the  project  DEIR: 

The  DEIR  ROG  emissions  were  based  on  the  trip  generation  data  from  the  DETR  traffic  study. 
However,  OTC's  July  2003  traffic  study  indicated  that  the  DEIR's  trip  generation  data  are  unrealistic 
since  the  data  are  based  On  "worst  case"  assumptions,  many  of  which  cannot  be  supported.  OTC's 
July  2003  study  estimated  a  revised  set  of  trip  generation  data  using  more  project- specific 
assumptions  (i.e.,  trip  rates  from  existing  Home  Depot  stores,  trip  rate  adjustment  to  reflect  larger 
than  normal  size  of  proposed  Home  Depot  store). 

Limited  Air  Quality  Analysis  . 

Similar  to  the  DETR,  projected  ROG  emissions  were  estimated  using  the  URBEMIS  2001 
computer  model  developed  by  the  California  Air  Resources  Board  as  well  as  the  following 
assumptions',  pass^by  trip  correction  2005  analysis  year  (expected  first  year  of  operation), 
summer  season  (maximum  ozone  concentration  conditions),  temperature  of  85  degrees 
Fahrenheit,  speed  of  25  miles  per  hour  (mph),  defaultfleet  mix,  default  trip  lengths  for  the  Bay 
Area,  and  default  variable  starts.  A  trip  generation  rate  of  52.05  trips  per  day  was  used  in 
estimating  the  revised  ROG  emissions,  as  opposed  to  67.66  trips  per  day  used  in  the  DEIR. 


5900  Hollis  Street,  Suite  D  •  Emeryville,  CA  94608  «  (510)  420-8686  -  FAX:  (510)  420-1707 

EmfiiyxriUe        Fetaluma        San  Francisco 


By:  BASELINE; 
gASELINg 


510  420  1707; 


Jul-1 1 -03  11 :25; 


Page  3 


Anna  Shimlco 
1 1  July  2003 
Page  2 

The  revised  trip  generation  rate  was  based  on  OTC's  revised  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trip  rate 
and  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  weekday  average  daily  rate  published  by  the  Institute  of 
Transportation  Engineers.'  The  ROG  emissions  presented  in  the  DEIR  were  estimated  to  be 
84.5  pounds  per  day. 


Table  1 ;  Projected  Trip  Generation  Rates  and  Corresponding  Project  Regional  ROG  Emissions 


Scenario 

Trip  Generation  Rate 
(trips/1,000  sq.  ft) 

ROG  Emissions 
(lb/day) 

Original  Scenario  (as  presented  in  DEIR) 

67.66 

84.5 

Revised  Scenario  (based  on  July  2003  Peer 

Review  Traffic  Study) 

52.05" 

77.9 

BAAQMD  Threshold 

80.0 

Notes:      lb/day  =  pounds  per  day 

trips/ 1 000  sq.  n.  =  trips  per  1,000  square  feet 

July  2003  Peer  Review  Traffic  Study  prepared  by  Overland  Traffic  Consultants,  Inc. 

*  The  trip  generation  rate  under  the  revised  scenario  is  based  on  information  provided  by  Overland  Traffic 
Consultants  (2003).  The  daily  trip  rate  was  generated  using  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  trip  rate  estimated  by 
Overland  Traffic  Consultants  arid  the  weekday  PM  peak  hour  and  weekday  average  daily  rate  published  by  the 
ln.Htitute  of  Transportation  Engineers! 

The  revised  ROG  emissions  were  estimated  to  be  77.9  pounds  per  day,  based  on  OTC's 
updated  trip  generation  data  (Table  1;  Attachment  A).  The  revised  ROG  emissions  are  less 
than  those  presented  in  the  DEIR,  These  revised  emissions  are  also  below  the  Bay  Area  Air 
Quality  Management  District's  threshold  level  of  80  pounds  per  day.  Therefore,  increased 
vehicular  traffic  associated  with  the  proposed  project  would  not  be  considered  to  cause  a 
significant  impact  on  air  quality. . 


.  Overland  Traffic  Consultants,  2003,  persona]  coirespondence  from  Jerry  T.  Overland  to  Rhodora  Del 

Rosario,  7  July;  Overland  Traffic  Consultants,  2003,  Peer  Review  Home  Depot  Traffic  Study  Located  at  491  Bayshore 
Boulevard  in  the  City  of  San  Francisco,  Prepared  for  Home  Depot  U.S.A.,  Inc.,  July. 


nt  By:  BASELINE; 
gASELINJ? 


510  420  1707; 


Jul-1 1 -03  1 1 :25; 


Page  4/7 


Anna  Shimko 
11  July  2003 
Page  3 


Should  you  have  any  questions  or  need  further  information,  please  do  not  hesitate  to  contact  us  at 
your  convenience. 

Sincerely, 


Principal  Civil  Engineer 

YN:RPD:cr 

Attachment 

cc:  Debbie  Kartigancr,  Cassidy  Shimko.  &  Dawson 


Y3289lmt.iptrcv:wpd-7/l  1/03 


ATTACHMENT  A: 
URBEMIS  2001  Output  Detail  Summary 


1 


Page:  1 


URBEMIS  2  0  01  For  Windows  6.2.2 

File  Name:  C:\Program  Files \URBEMIS  2001  For  Windows\Proj ects2k\RecalcHD . ur 

Project  Name:  Home  Depot  Revised  Calculation 

Project  Location:  San  Francisco  Bay  Area 

DETAIL  REPORT 
(Pounds /Day  -  Summer) 


UNMITIGATED  OPERATIONAL  EMISSIONS 

ROG  NOx  CO  PM10  S02 

Discount  club  77.89  53.28         684.60  28.22  0.42 

TOTAL  EMISSIONS    (lbs/day)  77.89  53.28         684.60  28.22  0.42 

Includes  correction  for  passby  trips. 

Includes  the  following  double  counting  adjustment  for  internal  trips: 

Residential  trips:  0.00     %  reduction.     Nonresidential  trips:  0.00     %  reduction. 

OPERATIONAL   (Vehicle)    EMISSION  ESTIMATES 


Analysis  Year:  2005  Temperature  (F) :  85  Season:  Summer 
EMFAC  Version:   EMFAC2001  (10/2001) 


Summary  of  Land  Uses : 

Unit  Type  Trip  Rate  Size        Total  Trips 

Discount  club  52.02  trips  /   1000  sq.    ft.  153.10  7,964.26 


Vehicle  Assumptions: 
Fleet  Mix: 

Vehicle  Type  Percent  Type 


Light  Auto 

61. 

.40 

Light  Truck 

<  3,750 

lbs 

9. 

.  30 

Light  Truck 

3, 751- 

5,  750 

16. 

,70 

Med  Truck 

5,751- 

8,  500 

7  . 

.20 

Lite-Heavy 

8,501- 

10, 000 

1. 

.  10 

Lite-Heavy 

10, 001- 

14, 000 

0  . 

.30 

Med-Heavy 

14, 001- 

33, 000 

1. 

.10 

Heavy-Heavy 

33, 001- 

60, 000 

0  . 

.70 

Line  Haul  > 

60, 000 

lbs 

0  . 

.  00 

Urban  Bus 

0. 

.  00 

Motorcycle 

1. 

.40 

School  Bus 

0. 

.  10 

Motor  Home 

0  . 

.70 

Non-Catalyst 

Catalyst 

Diesel 

4 . 70 

94 . 50 

0 .  80 

11.00 

88  .  90 

0. 10 

1.80 

97.60 

0.60 

12  .50 

79.20 

8.30 

18  .20 

72  .  70 

9  . 10 

0.  00 

66.70 

33  .30 

9. 10 

27.30 

63  .  60 

0.00 

0.  00 

100 . 00 

0.00 

0.  00 

100 . 00 

0.  00 

0  .  00 

100 . 00 

90.90 

9  . 10 

0  .  00 

0.00 

0.00 

100. 00 

0.00 

100.00 

0  .  00 

Travel  Conditions 


Urban  Trip  Length  (miles) 
Rural  Trip  Length  (miles) 
Trip  Speeds  (mph) 
%  of  Trips  -  Residential 


Residential 

Commercial 

Home- 

Home- 

Home- 

work 

Shop 

Other 

Commute 

Non-Work  Customer 

11.8 

4.6 

6.1 

11.8 

5.0  5.0 

15 . 0 

10 . 0 

10.0 

15.0 

10.0  10.0 

25.0 

25 . 0 

25  .  0 

25  . 0 

25.0  25.0 

27  .  3 

21.2 

51.5 

Page:  2 


%  of  Trips  -  Commercial  (by  land  use) 
Discount  club 


2.0  1.0  97.0 


A.  Shimko 
Exhibit  C 


February  2005  Home  Depot  Comments  &  Responses 
2001.0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./ 196  Loomis  Street 


C&R.362 


Preliminary  Draft  -  Not  Reviewed 
for  Accuracy  -  Subject  to  Change 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


Economic  Impacts  of 
Prospective  San 
Francisco  Home  Depot 
Store 


Prepared  for: 


The  Home  Depot 


January  9,  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


I  Rea  I  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


January  9,  2002 


505  Montgomery  Street 


Suite  600 

San  Francisco,  CA  941  1  1-2552 
T  415  781  8900 
F  415  781  8118 


Mr.  Mike  Abbate 


sedway@sedway.com 


The  Home  Depot 

3800  West  Chapman  Avenue 

Orange,  CA  92868 

Re:    Economic  Impacts  of  Prospective  San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Store 

Dear  Mr.  Abbate: 

Sedway  Group  is  pleased  to  present  this  report  summarizing  our  economic  impact  findings  for  The 
Home  Depot's  planned  San  Francisco,  California  store.  This  analysis  focuses  on  the  project's 
prospective  impacts  on  the  City  of  San  Francisco's  retail  climate,  especially  with  regard  to  home 
improvement  retailers  in  the  Bayshore  area. 

The  Executive  Summary  of  the  report  highlights  key  information  and  conclusions,  fully  documented 
in  the  body  of  the  report.  Please  be  aware  that  all  of  our  analysis  and  conclusions  are  subject  to  the 
Assumptions  and  Limiting  Conditions  included  at  the  end  of  this  report. 

It  has  been  a  pleasure  working  with  you  on  this  important  assignment.  Please  do  not  hesitate  to  contact 
us  should  you  have  any  questions. 


Amy  L.  Herman,  AICP 
Managing  Director 


Sincerely, 


ALH/KF:skw 


Enclosure 


I  V*r>rdjiroccsstngV»ttf<J_docs^HOjccisV27202\27202  ROI.doc 


a  CB  Richard  Ellis  Company 


SEDWAY  GROUP 

I  Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 

TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


L  EXECUTIVE  SUMMARY  1 

Introduction  ;  ~  1 

Leakage  Analysis  1 

Impact  on  Bayshore  District  Retailers  3 

Spin-off  Effects  4 

Representative  Case  Studies  5 

Conclusion  5 

II.  INTRODUCTION  6 

Study  Purpose  and  approach  6 

Study  Resources  6 

III.  LEAKAGE  ANALYSIS  8 

Approach  8 

Relevant  Home  Improvement  Sales  Categories  8 

Leakage  Results  9 

Potential  Market  Area  Effects  of  Home  Depot  Sales  10 

IV.  BAYSHORE  IMPACTS  12 

Bayshore  Home  Improvement  Sales  12 

Bayshore  Retailer  Impacts  12 

V.  SPIN-OFF  EFFECTS  18 

VI.  REPRESENTATIVE  CASE  STUDIES  19 

Background  19 

Individual  Case  Study  Findings  19 

Taxable  Sales  and  Outlets  22 

Summary  Case  Study  Findings  23 


ASSUMPTIONS  AND  GENERAL  LIMITING  CONDITIONS 
APPENDIX:  Exhibits 


SEDWAY  GROUP 

Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


LIST  OF  EXHIBITS 

Exhibit  1:   Bayshore  Study  Area  Map 

Exhibit  2:   1999  Retail  Sales  Leakage  Analysis,  San  Francisco 

Exhibit  3:    1999  Retail  Sales  Leakage  Analysis,  Home  Improvement  Categories 

Exhibit  4:    1999  Retail  Sales  Leakage  Analysis,  Home  Improvement  Categories 

San  Francisco  Compared  with  Bayshore  Study  Area 

Exhibit  5:   1999  Retail  Sales  -  Home  Improvement  Categories, 

San  Francisco  Compared  with  Bayshore  Study  Area 

Exhibit  6:   1999  Retail  Sales  -  Home  Improvement  Categories, 

San  Francisco  Compared  with  Bayshore  Study  Area 

Exhibit  7:   The  Home  Depot  Bayshore  Boulevard 

Estimated  Distribution  of  Total  Sales  Compared  with  Bayshore  Study  Area 

Exhibit  8:   Maximum  Home  Depot  Impact  on  Bayshore  Study  Area  Retailers 

Exhibit  9:   The  Home  Depot  Bayshore  Boulevard 

Major  Product  Lines  and  Manufacturers 

Exhibit  10:   Summary  of  Major  Home  Improvement  Retailers,  Bayshore  Study  Area 

Exhibit  11:   Taxable  Sales,  Chico  California 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


I.  EXECUTIVE  SUMMARY 


Introduction 

The  purpose  of  this  study  is  to  research  the  prospective  economic  impacts  of  a  planned  Home  Depot 
store  in  San  Francisco,  California.  The  Home  Depot  seeks  to  develop  an  approximately  152,000- 
square-foot  store  at  the  site  of  the  recently  vacated  Goodman's  Lumber  store  on  Bayshore  Boulevard, 
in  the  Bayview-Hunters  Point  District  of  San  Francisco.  There  is  a  relatively  high  concentration  of 
home  improvement-related  retailers  in  the  area,  largely  comprising  numerous  smaller  specialized 
building  materials  retailers.  The  purpose  of  this  study,  therefore,  is  to  provide  an  independent 
economic  analysis  demonstrating  the  likely  impacts  of  the  store  on  these  and  other  existing  retailers 
selling  home  improvement  products  in  the  Bayshore  area. 

To  assess  the  planned  Home  Depot's  prospective  economic  impacts  on  the  City  of  San  Francisco  and 
Bayshore  Area  home  improvement  retailers,  Sedway  Group  engaged  in  the  following  tasks: 

•  site  and  competitive  store  reconnaissance; 

•  a  leakage  analysis,  indicating  the  extent  to  which  the  City  of  San  Francisco  currently  attracts  or 
leaks  retail  sales  in  categories  relevant  to  Home  Depot's  sales; 

•  an  analysis  of  area  home  improvement  stores  sales  relative  to  the  City  of  San  Francisco; 

•  an  assessment  of  the  store's  potential  impact  on  Bayshore  Area  home  improvement  retailers; 

•  identification  of  product  lines  and  manufacturers  carried  by  Bayshore  Area  retailers; 

•  identification  of  prospective  spin-off  effects  resulting  from  Home  Depot's  local  presence;  and 

•  case  study  analysis  of  three  Northern  California  communities  to  probe  issues  regarding  the  local 
economic  impacts  following  the  opening  of  Home  Depot  stores. 

Following  is  a  summary  of  Sedway  Group's  task  findings. 

Leakage  Analysis 

Sedway  Group  operates  a  proprietary  model  that  estimates  retail  spending  potential  by  retail  category 
for  a  market  area  based  upon  population,  income,  and  consumer  spending  patterns.  The  model 
determines  the  extent  to  which  a  market  area  is  or  is  not  capturing  this  sales  potential  based  upon 
published  sales  data.  Retail  categories  in  which  spending  is  not  fully  captured  are  called  "leakage" 
categories,  while  retail  categories  in  which  more  sales  are  captured  than  are  generated  by  residents  are 
called  "attraction"  categories. 

Home  Depot's  sales  fall  into  three  general  categories  corresponding  with  the  reported  sales  data  for 
counties.  These  categories,  their  sub-categories,  assumed  percentage  of  store  sales,  and  estimated  sales 
for  the  Bayshore  store  upon  stabilization,  are  as  follows: 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


1 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


I  Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


Home  Improvement  Retail  Category 

Percent  of 
Store  Sales 

Total 
Estimated  Sales 

Household  and  Home  Furnishings 

20% 

$13,750,000 

Building  Materials 

Lumber  and  Building  Materials 

25% 

$17,160,000 

Hardware  Stores 

13% 

$  9,050,000 

Plumbing  and  Electrical  Supplies 

16% 

$11,280,000 

Paint,  Glass,  and  Wallpaper 

10% 

$6,710,000 

Sub-total 

64% 

$44,200,000 

Garden  Supply  Stores 

17% 

$12,040,000 

Total 

100% 

$70,000,000 

The  leakage  analysis,  conducted  for  San  Francisco  as  a  whole,  indicates  that  San  Francisco  has  net 
leakage  of  home  improvement  sales,  totaling  $32.2  million.  However,  this  net  leakage  figure  includes 
the  City's  substantial  attraction  in  the  household  and  home  furnishings  category  of  $249.1  million,  as 
illustrated  below. 


Home  Improvement  Retail  Category 

San  Francisco 
Attraction/ 
(Leakage) 

Household  and  Home  Furnishings 

$249,100,000 

Building  Materials 

($251,800,000) 

Garden  Supply  Stores 

($29,500,000) 

Total  Leakage 

($32,200,000) 

Hence  San  Francisco's  strong  attraction  in  the  household  and  home  furnishings  category  is  masking 
the  very  substantial  $251.8  million  leakage  in  the  building  materials  group  of  retailers.  This  $251.8 
million  building  materials  leakage  compares  to  Home  Depot's  estimated  building  materials  sales  of 
$44.2  million,  leaving  a  net  leakage  in  excess  of  $200  million  even  after  Home  Depot  achieves 
stabilized  sales.  San  Francisco  also  leaks  $29.5  million  in  garden  supply  sales,  more  than  half  of  which 
will  still  remain  following  Home  Depot's  development. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


2 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


I  Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


Impact  on  Bayshore  District  Retailers 

Sedway  Group  conducted  field  work  to  identify  the  home  improvement  retailers  in  the  Bayshore  Study 
Area  in  order  to  assess  the  potential  negative  impacts  of  Home  Depot  on  existing  home  improvement 
retailers.  These  Study  Area  retailers  generally  sell  the  following  types  of  products  carried  by  Home 
Depot:  lumber;  building  materials;  flooring;  paint;  tools;  plumbing;  electrical;  garden  supplies;  kitchen 
and  bath;  and  windows  and  doors.  However,  retailers  in  the  area  also  sell  many  types  of  products  not 
available  at  Home  Depot,  such  as  custom  cabinets,  custom  wood  windows  and  doors,  hardwood 
lumber,  historical  architectural  moulding,  natural  stone  counter  fabrication,  metal  work,  tool  service 
and  sharpening,  heavy  equipment  rental,  and  full  kitchen  and  bath  design  services.  Thus  many  of  the 
retailers  which  carry  more  diverse  product  lines  or  lines  not  carried  by  Home  Depot  will  likely  not  be 
significantly  impacted. 

Given  existing  sales  leakage  in  San  Francisco,  Home  Depot's  projected  sales  by  category,  and 
Bayshore  Study  Area  sales  relative  to  all  San  Francisco  sales,  Sedway  Group  estimates  that,  as  a  worst 
case  scenario,  no  more  $1.5  to  $4.1  million,  or  1.3  to  3.6  percent  of  Bayshore  Study  Area  home 
improvement  sales,  may  be  diverted  from  Bayshore  Study  Area  retailers  in  the  short-term.  By  home 
improvement  retail  category,  the  amount  and  percent  of  sales  diverted  from  Study  Area  retailers  are 
estimated  as  follows: 


Retail  Category 

Maximum  Short-term  Sales  Diverted  from 
Study  Area  Retailers 

Amount 

Percent  of 
Total  Sales 

Household  and  Home  Furnishings 

$611,500 

3.4% 

Building  Materials 

Lumber  and  Building  Materials 

$  0  -  $2,366,000 

0%  -3.0% 

Hardware  Stores 

$0-$  291,000 

0  %  -  3.0% 

Plumbing  and  Electrical  Supplies 

$  395,400 

7.4% 

Paint,  Glass,  and  Wallpaper 

$  451,700 

18.6% 

Sub-total 

$847,100 -$3,504,100 

1 .0%  -  4.0% 

Farm  and  Garden  Supply  Stores 

$0 

0% 

Total/Weighted  Average 

$1,458,600  -$4,1 15,600 

1.3% -3.6% 

This  1.3  to  3.6  percent  negative  sales  impact  range  is  very  low,  and  is  estimated  to  comprise  worst 
case  estimates,  such  that  the  actual  impact  on  Study  Area  retailers  is  likely  to  be  much  less,  if  at  all. 
Moreover,  these  impacts  are  anticipated  to  be  short-term,  with  full  recovery  anticipated  within  one 
year  for  most  retailers,  as  retailers  and  consumers  adapt  to  the  changed  retail  landscape.  Factors 
expected  to  lessen  this  impact  include  the  following: 

•     San  Francisco  experiences  strong  retail  leakage  in  many  of  the  relevant  retail  sales  categories, 
indicating  that  San  Francisco  residents  spend  their  home  improvement  dollars  throughout  a  large 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


3 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


I  Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


area.  Thus  it  is  more  likely  that  sales  will  be  recaptured  from  outside  San  Francisco  rather  than 
diverted  from  existing  retailers  with  strong,  established  market  niches,  as  is  the  case  with  many 
Bayshore  Study  Area  home  improvement  retailers.  In  addition,  as  retail  options  expand  close  to 
their  homes,  city  residents  may  change  their  shopping  patterns,  increasing  the  share  of  their 
expenditures  made  locally,  including  among  Bayshore  Study  Area  retailers. 

•  Home  Depot  often  stimulates  home  improvement  expenditures,  such  that  the  entire  pool  of  dollars 
spent  on  home  improvement  goods  and  services  increases.  If  this  occurs  in  San  Francisco,  then  a 
portion  of  dollars  potentially  diverted  from  existing  retailers  may  be  replaced  by  the  overall 
expansion  of  resident  home  improvement  spending. 

•  Bayshore  Study  Area  retailers  have  unique  competitive  advantages  relative  to  Home  Depot.  These 
advantages  include  niche  retailing,  unique  product  lines,  and  a  strong,  personal  service  orientation. 
Many  consumers  are  not  the  do-it-yourself  type  catered  to  by  Home  Depot.  Instead,  they  engage  in 
comparison  shopping,  seeking  to  maximize  product  options  and  personal  service  while  seeking 
value  pricing.  Further,  many  of  the  specialized  stores  in  the  Study  Area  cater  to  contractors. 
Therefore,  the  many  independent  stores  in  the  Bayshore  Study  Area,  the  rest  of  San  Francisco,  and 
beyond  are  well-positioned  to  serve  these  individuals. 

Pursuant  to  these  factors,  Sedway  Group  believes  that  the  $1.5  to  $4.1  million  estimate  of  total 
diverted  sales  substantially  overstates  the  potential  short-term  negative  impact  on  Bayshore  Study 
Area  retailers.  Instead,  the  true  impact  is  likely  to  be  only  a  portion  of  this  total,  if  anything,  especially 
when  considering  the  competitive  product  lines  carried  by  the  Study  Area  retailers  compared  to  Home 
Depot. 

In  almost  all  product  categories,  Bayshore  Study  Area  home  improvement  retailers  provide  a  wider 
range  of  product  lines  than  Home  Depot.  While  there  is  some  product  line  overlap  between  Home 
Depot  and  Study  Area  retailers,  more  options  will  generally  be  available  to  shoppers  patronizing  the 
Study  Area  home  improvement  retailers.  Thus  shoppers  interested  in  a  particular  product  line  not 
represented  at  Home  Depot  will  clearly  prefer  to  shop  at  other  stores. 

Finally,  to  further  reduce  the  potential  negative  impacts  of  Home  Depot,  any  retail  store  that 
experiences  competitive  effects  will  likely  respond  by  refocusing  product  lines,  changing  product 
mixes,  or  enhancing  customer  service.  These  are  the  typical  responses  engaged  in  by  independent 
retailers  experiencing  the  influx  of  big  box  retailers  regardless  of  retail  product. 

Spin-off  Effects 

hi  addition  to  directly  increasing  the  City  of  San  Francisco's  retail  base,  the  planned  Home  Depot 
store  has  the  potential  to  generate  spin-off  effects  that  will  benefit  the  City  of  San  Francisco,  its 
residents,  and  its  retailers.  These  spin-off  effects  will  likely  mitigate  any  negative  economic  impacts 
arising  from  Home  Depot's  planned  San  Francisco  store,  as  follows: 

•  People  who  attend  Home  Depot's  wide  range  of  free  home  improvement  classes  and  workshops 
develop  ideas  about  home  improvement  projects  but  cross-shop  at  other  home  improvement 
stores,  thereby  spreading  the  increased  retail  expenditures  resulting  from  this  enhanced  consumer 
confidence  among  other  home  improvement  stores. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


4 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 

I  Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 

•  Often  the  presence  of  a  Home  Depot  store  will  spur  increased  market  area  demand  for  home 
improvement  goods,  with  a  consequent  increase  in  total  home  improvement  expenditures, 
benefiting  many  area  home  improvement  retailers 

•  The  leakage  results  indicate  that  the  City  of  San  Francisco  experiences  a  great  deal  of  building 
materials  and  home  improvement  leakage,  despite  the  existing  strengths  of  the  Bayshore  Study 
Area.  The  presence  of  a  Home  Depot  store  will  help  reinforce  this  area  orientation.  As  a  result, 
customers  drawn  to  the  area  to  patronize  the  Home  Depot  store  will  likely  cross-shop  elsewhere  in 
the  area  for  a  range  of  other  goods,  increasing  the  sales  volume  of  other  local  retailers.  This  is 
especially  the  case  since  the  other  area  home  improvement  retailers  have  deeper  product  lines  than 
Home  Depot,  versus  the  broader  mix  of  goods  available  at  Home  Depot. 

Representative  Case  Studies 

Sedway  Group  conducted  case  study  analyses  of  three  Home  Depot  stores  in  Northern  California. 
These  stores  are  located  in  Chico,  Napa,  and  Folsom.  The  Chico  store  opened  in  August  1998,  while 
the  Napa  and  Folsom  stores  opened  within  the  last  two  years.  Although  these  locations  are  more  rural 
in  nature  than  San  Francisco,  they  were  selected  as  case  studies  precisely  because  of  their  small  size.  If 
existing  stores  in  a  small  community  can  thrive  despite  the  introduction  of  a  Home  Depot  store,  then 
the  prospects  may  be  even  that  much  greater  for  existing  stores  in  a  larger  community,  with  more 
existing  retail  options  for  local  shoppers. 

The  case  studies  were  conducted  to  probe  issues  regarding  the  local  economic  impacts  following  the 
opening  of  a  Home  Depot  store.  The  findings  indicate  that  none  of  the  case  study  cities  experienced 
significant  negative  retailer  impacts  attributable  to  Home  Depot's  market  presence.  While  not  all  the 
communities  initially  embraced  Home  Depot's  market  entrance,  the  results  indicate  that  Home  Depot 
helped  reverse  retail  sales  leakage,  increased  sales  at  complementary  home  improvement  stores,  and 
encouraged  new  home  improvement  store  development  to  maximize  cross-shopping  synergies.  If  any 
negative  impacts  did  occur,  they  were  in  the  nature  of  product  mix  changes  or  refocusing  and  minimal 
decreases  in  store  sales  rather  than  any  store  closures.  Thus  the  experience  of  the  case  study 
communities  and  their  home  improvement  retailers  generally  appear  positive  and  supportive  of  Home 
Depot  development. 

Conclusion 

Sedway  Group's  findings  indicate  that,  at  worst,  the  Bayshore  Study  Area's  existing  home 
improvement  retailers  are  likely  to  experience  low  levels  of  competition  from  Home  Depot,  especially 
if  they  continue  to  provide  their  wide  range  of  existing  products,  which  is  more  diverse  than  available 
at  Home  Depot.  In  addition,  independent  retailers  often  demonstrate  their  flexibility  in  responding  to 
competitive  threats  by  refocusing  product  lines,  changing  product  mixes,  or  enhancing  customer 
service.  Sedway  Group's  retail  experience  indicates  this  approach  is  frequently  adopted  by  retailers  in 
communities  comparable  to  San  Francisco  when  new  area  Home  Depot  stores  opened. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


5 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


I  Rea I  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


II.  INTRODUCTION 


Study  Purpose  and  Approach 


The  purpose  of  this  study  is  to  research  the  prospective  economic  impacts  of  a  planned  Home  Depot 
store  in  San  Francisco,  California.  The  Home  Depot  seeks  to  develop  an  approximately  152,000- 
square-foot  store  at  the  site  of  the  recently  vacated  Goodman's  Lumber  store  on  Bayshore  Boulevard, 
in  the  Bayview-Hunters  Point  District  of  San  Francisco  (see  Exhibit  1). 

There  is  a  relatively  high  concentration  of  home  improvement-related  retailers  in  the  area,  largely 
comprising  numerous  smaller  specialized  building  materials  retailers.  The  focus  of  this  study, 
therefore,  is  to  provide  an  independent  economic  analysis  demonstrating  the  likely  impacts  of  the  store 
on  these  Bayshore  Area  retailers.  For  purposes  of  the  study,  a  Bayshore  District  Study  Area  was 
defined,  and  is  identified  in  Exhibit  1.  This  study  area  is  bounded  by  Highway  101  to  the  west,  3rd 
Street  to  the  east,  and  Cesar  Chavez  Street  to  the  north. 

To  assess  the  planned  Home  Depot's  prospective  economic  impacts  on  the  City  of  San  Francisco  and 
Bayshore  Area  home  improvement  retailers,  Sedway  Group  engaged  in  the  following  tasks: 


•  review  of  representative  Home  Depot  store  sales  and  major  manufacturers  by  product  category; 

•  site  and  competitive  store  reconnaissance,  including  identification  of  product  lines  carried  by 
major  area  retailers; 

•  leakage  analysis,  indicating  the  extent  to  which  the  City  of  San  Francisco  currently  attracts  or 
leaks  retail  sales  in  categories  relevant  to  Home  Depot's  sales; 

•  analysis  of  area  home  improvement  stores  sales  relative  to  the  City  of  San  Francisco; 

•  assessment  of  the  store's  potential  impact  on  Bayshore  Area  home  improvement  retailers; 

•  identification  of  prospective  spin-off  effects  resulting  from  Home  Depot's  local  presence;  and 

•  case  study  analysis  of  three  Northern  California  communities  to  probe  issues  regarding  the  local 
economic  impacts  following  the  opening  of  Home  Depot  stores. 

Sedway  Group's  findings  for  these  tasks  are  documented  in  this  report.  All  exhibits  referenced  are 
inserted  in  the  appendix  at  the  end  of  the  report. 


Study  Resources 


Sedway  Group  relied  upon  a  variety  of  data  sources  in  preparing  this  fiscal  and  economic  assessment. 
Primary  research  techniques  involved  field  research  in  San  Francisco's  Bayshore  Area,  including 
visits  to  existing  home  improvement  retailers.  In  addition,  Sedway  Group  performed  detailed  analysis 
of  confidential  Home  Depot  sales  data  by  product  line.  Interviews  were  also  conducted  with  city 
officials  from  other  Northern  California  cities,  including  economic  development  and  redevelopment 
directors. 

Numerous  secondary  data  sources  were  also  relied  upon.  These  included  the  following:  Clantas  on- 
line demographic  resources;  American  Business  Information;  the  State  of  California  Board  of 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


January  2002 


SEPWAY  GROUP 

I  R  e  a  I  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 

Equalization;  The  U.S.  Department  of  Labor;  and  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  Office  of  the 
Controller. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


7 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


I  Rea I  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


III.  LEAKAGE  ANALYSIS 


Approach 

Sedway  Group  operates  a  proprietary  model  that  estimates  retail  spending  potential  for  a  market  area 
(usually  a  city,  grouping  of  cities,  or  county)  based  upon  population,  income,  and  consumer  spending 
patterns.  The  model  then  determines  the  extent  to  which  a  market  area  is  or  is  not  capturing  this  sales 
potential  based  upon  data  collected  and  published  by  the  State  of  California  Board  of  Equalization.  In 
order  to  determine  the  anticipated  pattern  of  retail  spending  for  a  market  area,  the  model  uses  a 
benchmarked  control  area.  For  the  purposes  of  this  study,  the  market  area  is  the  City  and  County  of 
San  Francisco,  while  the  control  area  is  the  nine-county  San  Francisco  Bay  Area. 

Retail  categories  in  which  spending  is  not  fully  captured  are  called  "leakage"  categories,  while  retail 
categories  in  which  more  sales  are  captured  than  are  generated  by  residents  are  called  "attraction" 
categories.  Generally,  attraction  categories  typically  signal  particular  strengths  of  a  retail  market,  while 
leakage  categories  signal  particular  weaknesses. 

Relevant  Home  Improvement  Sales  Categories 

Detailed  analysis  of  the  Board  of  Equalization's  retail  sales  classifications  indicate  that  Home  Depot's 
sales  fall  into  three  home  improvement  retail  categories  and  associated  sub-categories  corresponding 
with  the  Board  of  Equalization's  reporting  characteristics  for  counties.  These  categories  include  the 
following: 

•  Household  and  Home  Furnishings 

•  Building  Materials 

•  Garden  Supply  Stores 

Sedway  Group  analyzed  typical  Home  Depot  store  sales  data  to  identify  the  percentage  distribution  of 
store  sales  among  these  categories.  These  percentages  were  derived  from  confidential  sales  data  for 
Home  Depot's  San  Carlos  store,  a  store  deemed  relatively  representative  of  the  prospective  San 
Francisco  store.  Analysis  conducted  by  Sedway  Group  on  other  Home  Depot  confidential  store  sales 
data  indicate  this  distribution  is  relatively  constant  regardless  of  store  location. 

Sedway  Group  estimates  stabilized  Home  Depot  Bayshore  store  sales  of  $70  million  per  year.  This 
figure  is  based  on  sales  estimates  of  approximately  $460  per  square  foot  applied  to  the  proposed 
152,000-square-foot  store.  This  sales  per  square  foot  figure  was  provided  by  Home  Depot,  and 
reviewed  for  reasonableness  by  Sedway  Group.  This  figure  exceeds  Home  Depot's  average  annual 
sales  volume,  which  is  appropriate  for  a  store  located  in  a  dense  urban  area. 

Given  the  assumed  stabilized  sales  of  $70  million  for  the  prospective  Home  Depot  store,  Sedway 
Group's  analysis  assumes  that  Home  Depot's  San  Francisco  store  sales  will  be  distributed  as  follows: 


San  Francisco  Home  Dwot  Impacts 


8 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 

Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


Home  Improvement  Retail  Category 

Percent  of 
Store  Sales 

Total 
Estimated  Sales 

Household  and  Home  Furnishings 

20% 

$13,750,000 

Building  Materials 

Lumber  and  Building  Materials 

25% 

$17,160,000 

Hardware  Stores 

13% 

$  9,050,000 

Plumbing  and  Electrical  Supplies 

16% 

$11,280,000 

Paint,  Glass,  and  Wallpaper 

10% 

$6,710,000 

Sub-total 

64% 

$44,200,000 

Garden  Supply  Stores 

17% 

$12,040,000 

Total 

100% 

$70,000,000 

While  Home  Depot's  actual  sales  will  be  reported  by  the  State  Board  of  Equalization  in  the  Lumber 
and  Building  Materials  sub-category,  the  impact  of  these  sales  is  more  appropriately  analyzed  relative 
to  all  the  home  improvement  categories  and  sub-categories  that  include  stores  competitive  with  or 
complementary  to  Home  Depot. 

Leakage  Results 

Sedway  Group's  leakage  analysis  was  conducted  using  1999  sales  data,  adjusted  by  the  consumer 
price  index  to  reflect  2001  dollars.  The  1999  data  were  used  because  they  reflect  the  last  full  year  for 
which  retail  sales  data  are  available  from  the  Board  of  Equalization.  The  San  Francisco  leakage 
analysis  is  documented  in  Exhibit  2.  This  exhibit  presents  all  the  retail  categories  and  sub-categories 
for  which  the  analysis  can  be  conducted.  However,  the  findings  for  the  home  improvement  categories 
are  summarized  in  Exhibit  3. 

The  overall  leakage  analysis  presented  in  Exhibit  2  indicates  that  San  Francisco  as  a  whole  is  a  net 
attractor  of  retail  dollars.  This  is  not  surprising  given  the  role  of  tourism  in  San  Francisco's  economy 
as  well  as  San  Francisco's  high-end  retail  orientation  and  broad  mix  of  retail.  The  largest  attraction 
categories  include  eating  and  drinking,  specialty  retail,  and  apparel.  The  household  and  home 
furnishings  category  is  also  an  attraction  category,  although  to  a  lesser  extent.  This  attraction  most 
likely  reflects  the  Showplace  Square  area  of  San  Francisco  and  its  concentration  of  furniture  and 
design  showrooms. 

The  results  for  all  of  the  home  improvement  categories  indicates  that  as  a  whole,  San  Francisco  has  net 
leakage  of  home  improvement  sales,  totaling  $32.2  million  (see  Exhibit  3  and  the  text  table  below). 
This  leakage  figure  is  misleading  given  that  it  is  a  net  figure,  which  obscures  strong  findings  by 
category.  These  strong  findings  include  the  city's  substantial  attraction  in  the  household  and  home 
furnishings  category  of  $249.1  million.  In  contrast,  the  city  also  has  a  very  substantial  $251.8  million 
leakage  in  the  building  materials  group  of  retailers.  The  largest  share  of  this  leakage  is  contributed  by 
lumber  and  building  materials  sales.  San  Francisco  is  estimated  to  leak  44  percent  of  all  estimated 
resident  expenditures  in  this  category.  Thus,  based  on  its  population's  retail  needs,  San  Francisco 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


9 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


retailers  are  not  satisfying  demand  for  lumber  and  building  materials,  the  sub-category  most  directly 
reflective  of  Home  Depot's  sales. 


Home  Improvement  Retail  Category 

San  Francisco 
Attraction/ 
(Leakage) 

Household  and  Home  Furnishings 

$249,100,000 

Building  Materials 

($251,800,000) 

Garden  Supply  Stores 

($29,500,000) 

Total  Leakage 

($32,200,000) 

Further  confounding  the  interpretation  of  the  leakage  results  is  the  broad  definition  of  the  household 
and  home  furnishings  category  of  goods.  This  category  includes  stores  that  sell  goods  similar  to  Home 
Depot,  like  flooring  and  kitchen/bath  retailers,  as  well  as  stores  that  do  not  sell  goods  similar  to  Home 
Depot,  such  as  furniture  stores,  interior  decorators,  antique  stores,  pottery  and  glassware,  and  other 
stores.  Thus  it  is  difficult  to  isolate  the  relative  leakage  or  attraction  in  flooring  and  kitchen/bath  sales 
through  analysis  of  the  entire  household  and  home  furnishings  retail  category. 

Potential  Market  Area  Effects  of  Home  Depot  Sales 

The  retail  leakage  results  indicate  that  Home  Depot's  presence  in  San  Francisco  will  significantly  help 
reverse  the  loss  of  retail  expenditures  from  San  Francisco  in  key  retail  categories.  As  summarized  in 
Exhibit  4,  approximately  $44  million  of  Home  Depot's  estimated  sales  volume  is  projected  to  be  in  the 
building  materials  group,  a  category  currently  experiencing  $251.8  million  in  leakage  to  retailers 
outside  San  Francisco.  Thus  even  with  Home  Depot's  building  materials  sales,  San  Francisco's 
building  materials  leakage  will  still  be  quite  high,  at  approximately  $208  million.  This  indicates 
significant  unmet  demand  will  persist  in  the  building  materials  category  even  after  Home  Depot 
achieves  sales  stabilization.  In  like  manner,  there  is  approximately  $30  million  in  sales  leakage 
throughout  San  Francisco  in  the  garden  supply  category,  of  which  about  $12  million  is  projected  to  be 
captured  by  the  Bayshore  Home  Depot.  This  will  leave  a  balance  of  $18  million  in  unmet  demand  in 
this  category. 

Many  of  the  sales  captured  by  the  Bayshore  Home  Depot  store  are  likely  to  be  diverted  from  other 
Home  Depot  stores,  especially  the  nearest  store  in  Colma.  Analysis  was  conducted  by  a  third  party  for 
The  Home  Depot  regarding  point-of-sale  survey  data  for  the  Colma  store.  This  analysis  indicated  that 
approximately  $40  million  in  Colma  store  sales  originate  from  San  Francisco  residents.  Sedway  Group 
conservatively  estimates  that  only  half  of  these  sales  will  be  diverted  to  the  proposed  Bayshore  store, 
or  a  total  of  $20  million  in  sales.  In  other  words,  the  Colma  store  will  continue  to  capture  half  of  San 
Francisco  resident  Home  Depot  spending.  In  this  manner,  only  $50  million  of  the  projected  Bayshore 
store  sales  are  projected  to  be  new  to  Home  Depot.  If  the  Bayshore  Home  Depot  captures  a  greater 
share  of  the  San  Francisco  resident  sales  currently  diverted  to  the  Colma  store,  or  if  the  Bayshore  store 
captures  sales  currently  diverted  to  other  nearby  Home  Depot  locations  (e.g.,  Emeryville,  San  Mateo, 
Marin),  the  "net  new"  sales  figure  would  be  further  reduced. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


10 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


Despite  this  projection  of  Home  Depot  sales  "net  new"  to  San  Francisco,  Sedway  Group's  economic 
impact  analysis  conservatively  examines  the  prospective  impact  of  Home  Depot's  total  San  Francisco 
store  sales.  This  is  appropriate  given  that  the  methodological  approach  is  primarily  rooted  in 
comparing  Home  Depot's  projected  sales  to  existing  sales  leakage.  Thus  any  sales  captured  by  stores 
outside  San  Francisco  are  already  reflected  in  the  existing  leakage  analysis. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


11 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 

Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


IV.  BAYSHORE  IMPACTS 


Bayshore  Home  Improvement  Sales 

Sedway  Group  obtained  information  from  San  Francisco's  Office  of  the  Controller  regarding  historic 
home  improvement  sales  and  the  number  of  businesses  in  the  Bayshore  Study  Area.  A  time  series  of 
data  for  1997  through  third  quarter  2001  was  provided,  which  Sedway  Group  converted  to  2001 
dollars  based  upon  the  consumer  price  index.  The  results,  presented  in  Exhibit  5,  indicate  that  the  area 
steadily  increased  its  sales  from  1997  through  2000,  culminating  in  $114.2  million  sales  in  2000.  This 
sustained  increase  is  especially  notable  given  the  closure  of  Goodman's  Lumber  in  mid-2000.  The 
number  of  vendors  also  grew  during  this  time  period,  increasing  from  58  in  1997  to  75  in  2001. 

The  largest  share  of  the  Study  Area's  sales  is  contributed  by  lumber/building  materials  vendors.  The 
22  vendors  in  this  category  in  2000  represent  about  30  percent  of  the  businesses  in  the  area,  but 
account  for  almost  70  percent  of  sales.  The  next  largest  increment  of  area  sales  was  in  home 
furnishings,  accounting  for  16  percent  of  area  home  improvement  sales.  By  percentage,  the  remaining 
sales  were  distributed  as  follows:  hardware  stores,  9  percent;  plumbing/electrical  supplies,  5  percent; 
and  paint/glass/wallpaper,  2  percent. 

Exhibit  6  presents  information  comparing  Bayshore  Study  Area  sales  to  citywide  sales  for  the  1999 
period,  the  last  available  year  for  citywide  data.  This  exhibit  indicates  that  the  Bayshore  Study  Area 
captures  27  percent  of  citywide  building  materials  group  sales,  though  only  accounts  for  17  percent  of 
the  retail  outlets  in  this  category,  indicating  higher  sales  volume  in  the  Bayshore  Study  Area  compared 
to  citywide  retailers.  This  is  a  very  substantial  figure,  especially  when  one  considers  the  small  size  of 
this  area  relative  to  the  entire  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco.  The  Bayshore  Study  Area's  largest 
retail  category,  lumber  and  building  materials,  accounts  for  nearly  half  of  the  city's  sales,  yet  the  area 
is  home  to  less  than  a  third  of  the  city's  retailers  in  this  category. 

Clearly,  there  currently  exists  a  high  concentration  of  building  materials  as  well  as  other  home 
improvement  retailers  in  the  Bayshore  Study  Area.  This  relatively  small  area  captures  a 
disproportionately  large  share  of  the  city's  sales,  which  demonstrates  the  strength  of  this  area  as  a 
home  improvement  niche  market.  The  addition  of  Home  Depot  to  this  area  will  further  strengthen  this 
concentration,  enhancing  the  area's  ability  to  serve  the  home  improvement  needs  of  San  Francisco. 

Bayshore  Retailer  Impacts 

Sedway  Group  conducted  field  work  in  the  Bayshore  Study  Area  to  gain  a  firsthand  understanding  of 
the  types  of  home  improvement  retailers  in  the  area  and  their  product  range.  The  purpose  of  this  field 
work  was  to  develop  an  understanding  of  the  existing  strengths  of  the  area  and  the  extent  to  which  the 
retailers  might  be  negatively  impacted  by  Home  Depot's  operation  in  the  area.  In  addition,  Sedway 
Group  conducted  quantitative  analysis  to  estimate  the  maximum  impact  Home  Depot  might  have  on 
area  retailers  relative  to  sales  diverted  from  these  retailers  to  Home  Depot. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


12 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


I  Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


Level  of  Competition  with  Bayshore  Retailers 

Competitive  Product  Categories.  Bayshore  Study  Area  retailers  generally  sell  products  in  the  same 
categories  as  Home  Depot  (see  Exhibit  7).  While  the  distribution  of  sales  is  different,  with  the  Study 
Area  much  more  skewed  toward  lumber  and  building  materials  than  Home  Depot,  most  of  the  major 
categories  of  products  sold  by  Home  Depot  are  represented  in  the  Study  Area.  The  exception  is  the 
sale  of  garden  supplies,  for  which  Study  Area  information  is  not  available  due  to  disclosure  issues,  due 
to  the  presence  of  only  one  retail  nursery. 

Despite  the  category  sales  overlap  between  Bayshore  Study  Area  home  improvement  retailers  and 
Home  Depot,  Sedway  Group  believes  Home  Depot's  sales  impacts  on  any  one  Study  Area  retailer  are 
likely  to  be  minimal,  on  average.  This  is  especially  the  case  since  any  sales  captured  by  Home  Depot 
that  represent  diverted  existing  sales  rather  than  net  new  expenditures  will  most  likely  be  spread  across 
retailers  throughout  San  Francisco  and  beyond,  not  just  Study  Area  retailers.  In  addition,  the  Study 
Area's  retailers  sell  a  wide  range  of  products,  many  of  which  are  more  highly  specialized  than 
available  at  Home  Depot. 

Maximum  Negative  Sales  Impact.  Figures  presented  in  Exhibit  8  document  the  maximum  extent  to 
which  Sedway  Group  estimates  existing  Bayshore  Study  Area  home  improvement  retailers  could  be 
negatively  impacted  by  the  Bayshore  Home  Depot  store.  This  exhibit  indicates  the  following: 

•  the  amount  of  existing  San  Francisco  attraction  or  leakage  by  sales  category; 

•  Home  Depot's  projected  sales  by  category; 

•  the  maximum  amount  of  Home  Depot's  sales  likely  to  impact  San  Francisco  retailers  after 
netting  out  any  existing  leakage  by  retail  category; 

•  total  Bayshore  Study  Area  sales  by  category  and  as  a  percent  of  all  San  Francisco  sales;  and 

•  Sedway  Group's  maximum  projection  of  the  amount  and  percent  of  sales  diverted  from 
Bayshore  Study  Area  retailers. 

The  purpose  of  the  approach  documented  in  Exhibit  8  is  to  project  analytically  the  degree  to  which 
Home  Depot's  sales  will  absorb  existing  San  Francisco  leakage.  Conversely,  if  there  is  existing 
attraction,  or  leakage  less  than  Home  Depot's  projected  sales,  then  how  much  of  Home  Depot's  sales 
at  worst  might  be  diverted  away  from  existing  Bayshore  Study  Area  retailers.  The  latter  is  projected 
based  on  the  percentage  of  total  city  sales  captured  by  the  Bayshore  Study  Area  retailers. 

For  example,  Exhibit  8  indicates  that  San  Francisco  already  experiences  net  attraction  in  Household 
and  Home  Furnishings.  Thus  Home  Depot's  projected  sales  of  $13,750,000  will  comprise  additional 
attraction.  If  these  sales  are  diverted  from  all  San  Francisco  household  and  home  furnishings  retailers 
proportionally,  then  4.0  percent  of  these  sales  will  be  diverted  from  Bayshore  Study  Area  retailers. 
This  comprises  $611,500,  equivalent  to  3.4  percent  of  existing  Bayshore  Study  Area  sales  in  this 
category. 

In  contrast,  in  the  two  categories  where  Home  Depot's  sales  are  substantially  less  than  existing 
leakage,  i.e.,  Lumber  and  Building  Materials  and  Hardware  Stores,  the  analytic  approach  suggests  at 
best  that  there  will  be  no  negative  impact  on  Bayshore  Study  Area  retailers  in  these  categories. 
However,  given  the  proximity  of  numerous  retailers  in  these  categories  to  the  proposed  store,  Sedway 
Group  tempered  the  analysis  by  estimating  an  upper  limit,  or  maximum  impact,  equivalent  to  3.0 
percent  of  existing  Bayshore  Study  Area  sales.  This  figure  is  based  on  analysis  of  existing  Bayshore 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


13 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


I  Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


Study  Area  sales  as  a  percent  of  projected  San  Francisco  resident  spending,  and  recognizes  the  fact 
that  there  may  be  interim  impacts  on  under  performing  stores.  However,  these  impacts  are  anticipated 
to  be  short-term,  with  most  retailers  recovering  within  one  year,  or  two  years  at  the  most  for  the  more 
marginal  operations.  The  duration  of  these  short-term  impacts  are  estimated  based  on  case  study 
research  documented  in  Chapter  VI  of  this  report,  as  well  as  Sedway  Group's  experience  conducting 
big  box  retailer  research  in  other  California  communities. 

The  aggregate  results  in  Exhibit  8  indicate  that  no  more  than  $1.5  to  $4.1  million,  or  1.3  to  3.6  percent 
of  Bayshore  Study  Area  home  improvement  sales,  may  be  diverted  from  Bayshore  Study  Area 
retailers.  By  home  improvement  retail  category,  the  amount  and  percent  of  sales  diverted  from  Study 
Area  retailers  are  estimated  as  follows: 


Retail  Category 

Maximum  Short-term  Sales  Diverted  from 
Study  Area  Retailers 

Amount 

Percent  of 
Total  Sales 

Household  and  Home  Furnishings 

$611,500 

3.4% 

Building  Materials 

Lumber  and  Building  Materials 

$  0  -  $2,366,000 

0%  -  3.0% 

Hardware  Stores 

$0-$  291,000 

0  %  -  3.0% 

Plumbing  and  Electrical  Supplies 

$  395,400 

7.4% 

Paint,  Glass,  and  Wallpaper 

$  451,700 

18.6% 

Sub-total 

$847,100  -$3,504,100 

1 .0%  -  4.0% 

Farm  and  Garden  Supply  Stores 

$0 

0% 

Total/Weighted  Average 

$1,458,600  -$4,1 15,600 

1.3% -3.6% 

This  1.3  to  3.6  percent  negative  sales  impact  range  is  very  low.  As  mentioned  above,  these  impacts  are 
anticipated  to  be  short-term,  with  full  recovery  anticipated  within  one  year  for  most  retailers,  as 
retailers  and  consumers  adapt  to  the  changed  retail  landscape.  Sedway  Group  further  believes  several 
mitigating  factors,  presented  below,  will  substantially  reduce  this  figure. 

Mitigating  Factors.  Sedway  Group  considers  the  maximum  negative  sales  impact  figures  to  comprise 
worst  case  estimates,  such  that  the  actual  impact  on  Study  Area  retailers  is  likely  to  be  much  less,  if  at 
all.  Three  major  factors  that  will  likely  result  in  lower  impacts  include  the  following: 

•  The  analyses  indicate  that  San  Francisco  experiences  strong  retail  leakage  in  many  of  the  relevant 
retail  sales  categories.  This  indicates  that  San  Francisco  residents  spend  their  home  improvement 
dollars  throughout  a  large  area.  Thus  it  is  more  likely  that  sales  will  be  recaptured  from  outside 
San  Francisco  rather  than  diverted  from  existing  retailers  with  strong,  established  market  niches, 
as  is  the  case  with  many  Bayshore  Study  Area  home  improvement  retailers.  In  addition,  as  retail 
options  expand  close  to  their  homes,  city  residents  may  change  their  shopping  patterns,  increasing 
the  share  of  their  expenditures  made  locally,  including  among  Bayshore  Study  Area  retailers. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


14 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


I  Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


•  In  many  communities,  the  presence  of  a  Home  Depot  acts  as  a  stimulus  for  home  improvement 
expenditures,  encouraging  homeowners  to  increase  their  overall  expenditures  on  home 
improvement  goods  and  services.  As  a  result,  the  entire  pool  of  dollars  spent  on  home 
improvement  goods  and  services  increases,  with  benefits  felt  by  many  San  Francisco  businesses, 
not  just  Home  Depot.  Therefore  it  is  likely  that  a  portion  of  the  dollars  potentially  diverted  from 
existing  Bayshore  Study  Area  home  improvement  retailers  may  be  replaced  by  the  overall 
expansion  of  home  improvement  spending  in  the  city. 

•  Bayshore  Study  Area  retailers  have  their  own  unique  competitive  advantages  relative  to  Home 
Depot.  These  advantages  include  niche  retailing,  unique  product  lines,  and  a  strong,  personal 
service  orientation.  Not  all  consumers  are  the  do-it-yourselfers  catered  to  by  Home  Depot.  Instead, 
many  people  seriously  engage  in  comparison  shopping,  seeking  to  maximize  product  options  and 
personal  service  while  minimizing  price.  Further,  many  of  the  specialized  stores  in  the  Study  Area 
cater  to  contractors.  Therefore,  the  many  independent  stores  in  the  Study  Area,  as  well  as  the  rest 
of  San  Francisco  and  beyond,  are  well-positioned  to  serve  these  individuals. 

It  is  not  possible  to  estimate  the  extent  to  which  these  factors  will  reduce  the  negative  impacts  of 
Home  Depot  on  Bayshore  Study  Area  retailers.  However,  Sedway  Group  believes  that  the  $1.5  to  $4.1 
million  estimate  of  total  diverted  sales  substantially  overstates  the  potential  negative  impact  on  Study 
Area  retailers.  Instead,  the  true  short-term  impact  is  likely  to  be  only  a  portion  of  this  total,  if  any, 
especially  when  one  takes  into  consideration  the  competitive  product  lines  carried  by  the  Bayshore 
Study  Area  retailers  compared  to  Home  Depot,  as  documented  below. 

Competitive  Product  Lines 

Exhibit  9  provides  detailed  information  on  major  product  lines  by  category  sold  at  Home  Depot  and 
major  manufacturers  by  product  line.  Exhibit  10  presents  parallel  product  information  for  the 
Bayshore  Study  Area's  retailers,  which  indicates  that  Study  Area  home  improvement  retailers  provide 
a  wider  range  of  product  lines  than  Home  Depot  in  almost  all  product  categories.1 

There  are  several  categories  in  which  Home  Depot  may  have  a  competitive  influence  on  Study  Area 
retailers,  including  lumber,  building  materials  and  tools,  flooring,  paint,  plumbing  and  electrical, 
garden  supplies,  kitchen  and  bath,  and  doors  and  windows,  as  indicated  in  Exhibit  10.  However,  there 
will  likely  be  minimal  impact  on  most  of  these  retailers  due  to  the  competitive  advantage  these 
retailers  have  through  offering  deeper  product  lines,  specialized  service,  contractor  service  orientation, 
convenience,  and  product  differentiation. 

Lumber,  Building  Materials,  and  Tools 

More  than  half  the  retailers  in  the  Lumber,  Building  Materials,  and  Tools  category  are  highly 
specialized,  offering  only  roofing  supplies,  plaster,  or  masonry  materials.  These  smaller  retailers 
primarily  cater  to  the  trades  and  offer  deep  product  lines,  convenient  access,  and  specialized  service. 
Within  this  category  is  Beronio  Lumber,  a  large,  well-run  drive-in  lumber  yard  and  building  materials 
supplier  geared  primarily  toward  contractors.  This  retailer  will  share  some  of  the  same  product  lines  as 
Home  Depot,  including  dimensional  lumber,  building  hardware,  limited  tools,  wood  flooring,  and 
windows  and  doors.  However,  Beronio  offers  a  much  deeper  product  line  in  virtually  all  categories, 

1  The  total  number  of  retailers  in  Exhibit  10  of  94  contrasts  with  the  75  in  Exhibit  5  because  several  of  the 
categories  in  Exhibit  10  include  those  businesses  that  may  be  classified  as  wholesaler  or  contractor  and  are  thus 
excluded  from  the  sales  tax  data  included  in  Exhibit  5. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


15 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


I  Rea  I  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


offers  drive-in  convenience,  competitive  pricing,  and  product  differentiation.  For  example,  where 
Home  Depot  typically  offers  only  redwood  decking  in  various  grades,  Beronio  carries  redwood, 
western  red  cedar,  Alaskan  yellow  cedar,  Ipe,  and  mahogany,  in  various  grades  and  dimensions. 
Beronio  also  carries  items  not  stocked  or  stocked  in  limited  supply  at  Home  Depot,  including  many 
moulding  profiles,  the  ability  to  custom  match  moulding  in  its  on-site  mill,  wood  siding  in  several 
styles  and  profiles,  hardwood  flooring  in  many  species,  and  hardwood  lumber  and  plywood  in  several 
species  and  grades.  Thus,  it  is  likely  that  these  retailers  will  be  minimally  impacted  by  the  proposed 
Home  Depot. 

However,  within  this  category,  there  are  some  smaller  stores  that,  upon  Sedway  Group's  site  tour, 
appeared  to  have  limited  product  lines  and  marginal  customer  service.  These  retailers  will  likely  need 
to  respond  by  refocusing  product  lines,  changing  product  mixes,  or  enhancing  customer  service. 
Finally,  the  one  traditional  smaller  local  serving  hardware  store  in  the  area  is  located  relatively  far 
from  the  proposed  store  on  the  eastern  edge  of  the  Study  Area.  This  store  will  likely  compete  with 
Home  Depot,  but  will  be  able  to  maintain  its  competitive  edge  by  offering  a  high  level  of 
knowledgeable  service  and  convenience  to  its  patrons. 

Flooring  and  Floor  Coverings 

Other  products  likely  to  compete  with  Home  Depot  are  in  the  flooring  and  floor  coverings  category. 
About  a  third  of  the  Study  Area  retailers  in  this  category  may  be  impacted  to  a  greater  degree  because 
they  appeared  to  be  marginal  operations  in  substandard  buildings  with  limited  product  lines.  Ln 
contrast,  several  of  the  larger  flooring  retailers  appeared  to  be  thriving  operations  with  much  deeper 
product  lines  and  greater  variety  compared  with  Home  Depot. 

Paint,  Plumbing,  and  Electrical 

In  the  paint  category,  the  two  retailers  will  likely  be  minimally  impacted  because  both  specialize  in 
sales  to  contractors,  whereas  Home  Depot  sells  virtually  all  its  paint  to  homeowners.  Similarly,  the 
plumbing  and  electrical  suppliers  in  the  Study  Area  are  geared  toward  the  trades,  with  one  selling 
wholesale  only,  and  will  thus  likely  not  be  impacted  by  the  proposed  Home  Depot. 

Garden  Supply 

Four  of  the  five  garden  supply  retailers  are  wholesale  operations  and  do  not  sell  to  the  public  and  are 
thus  not  considered  to  compete  with  Home  Depot.  The  one  retail  nursery  in  the  area  is  directly  across 
the  street  from  the  proposed  Home  Depot,  and  thus  may  be  impacted.  However,  this  stand  alone 
nursery  offers  the  advantage  of  more  convenient  access. 

Kitchen  and  Bath  Design  Showrooms 

There  is  a  relatively  high  concentration  of  kitchen  and  bath  design  showrooms  in  the  area.  With  the 
exception  of  one,  all  offer  a  much  greater  variety  of  cabinets,  countertops,  fixtures,  and  complete 
design  services,  compared  with  Home  Depot.  An  example  of  the  product  line  depth  is  illustrated  by 
one  of  the  larger  of  these  retailers,  Floorcraft.  On  Sedway  Group's  site  visit,  about  20  types  of  pedestal 
sinks  were  on  display  in  the  showroom,  compared  to  only  a  few  available  at  a  typical  Home  Depot. 
This  retailer,  similar  to  the  others,  also  offers  many  more  manufacturers  than  Home  Depot.  Finally, 
this  is  the  only  retailer  identified  in  the  Study  Area  selling  major  appliances.  Although  there  was  some 
crossover  with  Home  Depot  in  two  of  the  manufacturers  (GE  and  Maytag),  this  retailer  also  offers 
high-end  manufacturers  including  Wolf,  Viking,  DCS,  Asko,  and  Sub-Zero.  Thus,  it  is  likely  that  most 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


16 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


of  these  retailers  will  not  be  impacted  significantly  by  the  presence  of  the  proposed  Bayshore  Home 
Depot.  One  smaller  stock  kitchen  cabinet  retailer  may  be  impacted  by  the  proposed  store  because  it 
offers  the  same  product  line  as  Home  Depot,  and  appeared  to  be  a  marginal  operation. 

Window  and  Door 

Finally,  the  last  category  with  potential  competitive  influence  is  in  the  window  and  door  category. 
However,  similar  to  the  other  categories  discussed  above,  the  competitive  impact  will  likely  be 
isolated  to  only  one  or  two  retailers  with  similar  product  offerings,  which  appeared  to  be  marginal 
operations.  Most  of  the  retailers  in  this  category  offer  a  wider  range  of  manufacturers,  custom 
fabrication,  and  installation.  Included  in  this  category  are  several  garage  and  shower  door 
manufacturers,  retailers,  and  installers,  which  will  likely  not  compete  directly  with  Home  Depot  due  to 
the  specialized  nature  of  these  businesses. 

No  Direct  Competition 

More  than  half  of  the  Study  Area  businesses  identified  and  summarized  in  Exhibit  10  will  not  compete 
directly  with  Home  Depot  due  to  the  fact  that  Home  Depot  does  not  carry  the  products  offered  by 
these  area  retailers  or  offers  an  extremely  limited  variety.  These  retail  categories  include  hardwood 
lumber,  hardwood  plywood,  custom  moulding,  natural  and  cultured  stone  fabrication,  concrete 
countertop  fabrication,  custom  cabinets,  metalwork,  glass  supplies,  tool  service  and  shaipening,  and 
heavy  equipment  rental. 

Summary 

In  conclusion,  while  there  is  some  product  line  overlap  between  Home  Depot  and  Study  Area  retailers, 
more  options  will  generally  be  available  to  shoppers  patronizing  the  Study  Area  home  improvement 
retailers.  This  is  likely  to  be  the  case  among  other  retailers  in  San  Francisco  and  nearby  retail  markets 
as  well.  Thus  shoppers  interested  in  a  particular  product  line  not  represented  at  Home  Depot  will 
clearly  prefer  to  shop  at  other  stores,  including,  but  limited  to  the  Study  Area's  home  improvement 
retailers.  In  this  manner,  these  stores  have  a  competitive  advantage  over  Home  Depot. 

In  addition  to  already  providing  a  wider  range  of  home  improvement  products  than  Home  Depot, 
Sedway  Group  believes  that  any  retail  store  that  experiences  competitive  effects  related  to  Home 
Depot  will  likely  respond  by  refocusing  product  lines,  changing  product  mixes,  or  enhancing  customer 
service.  Based  on  Sedway  Group's  knowledge  of  the  retail  industry,  these  appear  to  be  typical 
responses  engaged  in  by  independent  retailers  experiencing  the  influx  of  big  box  retailers  regardless  of 
retail  product. 

Summary  of  Findings 

Sedway  Group's  findings  indicate  that,  at  worst,  the  Bayshore  Study  Area's  existing  home 
improvement  retailers  are  likely  to  experience  low  levels  of  competition  from  Home  Depot,  especially 
if  they  continue  to  provide  their  wide  range  of  existing  products,  which  is  more  diverse  than  available 
at  Home  Depot.  In  addition,  independent  retailers  often  demonstrate  their  flexibility  in  responding  to 
competitive  threats  by  refocusing  product  lines,  changing  product  mixes,  or  enhancing  customer 
service.  Sedway  Group's  retail  experience  indicates  this  approach  is  frequently  adopted  by  retailers  in 
communities  comparable  to  San  Francisco  when  new  area  Home  Depot  stores  opened. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


17 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 

Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


V.  SPIN-OFF  EFFECTS 


In  addition  to  directly  increasing  the  City  of  San  Francisco's  retail  base,  the  planned  Home  Depot 
store  has  the  potential  to  generate  spin-off  effects  that  will  benefit  the  City  of  San  Francisco,  its 
residents,  and  its  retailers.  These  spin-off  effects  will  likely  mitigate  any  negative  economic  impacts 
arising  from  the  planned  Home  Depot  store. 

These  spin-off  effects  are  partly  attributable  to  Home  Depot's  provision  of  free  home  improvement 
classes  and  workshops.  These  learning  opportunities  are  available  to  the  general  public,  regardless  of 
where  attendees  choose  to  spend  their  home  improvement  dollars.  Home  Depot  is  widely  recognized 
as  a  strong  resource  for  enhancing  or  gaining  home  improvement  knowledge  and  skills,  for  both 
experienced  do-it-yourselfers  and  people  who  simply  want  to  become  more  familiar  with  home 
improvement  techniques.  Class  and  workshop  attendees  subsequently  develop  ideas  about  home 
improvement  projects  but  do  not  necessarily  purchase  all  the  necessary  supplies  or  services  from 
Home  Depot.  Instead,  they  likely  cross-shop  at  other  home  improvement  stores  to  purchase  the 
materials  or  level  of  service  that  best  meet  their  needs.  Thus  while  Home  Depot  provides  the  necessary 
training,  other  area  home  improvement  stores  will  share  in  the  increased  retail  expenditures  resulting 
from  this  enhanced  consumer  confidence  in  do-it-yourself  home  improvement. 

Similarly,  often  just  the  presence  of  a  Home  Depot,  regardless  of  class  or  workshop  attendance,  will 
spur  increased  demand  for  home  improvement  goods  in  general  throughout  a  market  area.  As  people 
become  more  sensitized  to  the  availability  of  home  improvement  goods  and  services,  total  home 
improvement  expenditures  increase,  with  many  area  home  improvement  retailers  benefiting. 

Finally,  the  leakage  results  indicate  that  the  City  of  San  Francisco  experiences  a  great  deal  building 
materials  and  home  improvement  leakage,  despite  the  existing  strengths  of  the  Bayshore  Study  Area. 
The  presence  of  a  Home  Depot  store  in  the  Study  Area  will  help  reinforce  this  area  orientation, 
building  the  area's  critical  mass  of  home  improvement  retailers.  As  a  result,  customers  drawn  to  the 
area  to  patronize  the  Home  Depot  store  will  likely  cross-shop  elsewhere  in  the  area  for  a  range  of  other 
goods,  increasing  the  sales  volume  of  other  local  retailers.  This  is  especially  the  case  since  the  other 
area  home  improvement  retailers  have  deeper  product  lines  than  Home  Depot,  versus  the  broader  mix 
of  goods  available  at  Home  Depot. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


18 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


I  Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


VI.  REPRESENTATIVE  CASE  STUDIES 


Background 

V 

Sedway  Group  conducted  case  study  analyses  of  three  Home  Depot  stores  in  Northern  California. 
These  stores  are  located  in  Chico,  Napa,  and  Folsom.  The  Chico  store  opened  in  August  1998,  while 
the  Napa  and  Folsom  stores  opened  within  the  last  two  years.  Although  these  locations  are  more  rural 
in  nature  than  San  Francisco,  they  were  selected  as  case  studies  precisely  because  of  their  small  size.  If 
existing  stores  in  a  small  community  can  thrive  despite  the  introduction  of  a  Home  Depot  store,  then 
the  prospects  may  be  even  that  much  greater  for  existing  stores  in  a  larger  community,  with  more 
existing  retail  options  for  local  shoppers. 

Thus  the  purpose  of  the  case  study  research  is  to  probe  issues  regarding  the  local  economic  impacts, 
both  short  and  long  term,  following  the  opening  of  Home  Depot  stores.  The  purpose  of  the  case 
studies  was  to  document,  to  the  extent  possible,  the  impact  development  of  the  store  had  on  other  local 
home  improvement  stores.  The  queries  involved  the  following  topics: 

•  Community  concern  prior  to  the  opening  of  the  Home  Depot  store; 

•  Negative  economic  impacts  since  the  opening  of  the  Home  Depot  store; 

•  Additional  business  development  as  a  result  of  Home  Depot's  presence; 

•  Shopping  districts  that  may  have  been  hurt  or  helped  by  Home  Depot's  presence;  and 
»     Retailer's  perspectives  given  the  recent  downward  swing  in  the  economy. 

To  complete  the  case  studies  Sedway  Group  interviewed  local  economic  development,  redevelopment, 
and  city  officials.  The  interviews  were  conducted  over  the  telephone,  and  all  individuals  were  asked 
the  same  set  of  questions. 

Additionally,  the  qualitative  case  study  research  was  complemented  by  a  historical  trend  analysis  of 
local  home  furnishings/appliances  and  building  materials  sales  for  the  more  mature  store  Chico.  The 
primary  purpose  of  this  research  was  to  determine  the  extent  to  which  other  home 
furnishings/appliances  and  building  materials  stores  were  impacted  following  Home  Depot's  entrance 
to  the  market. 


Individual  Case  Study  Findings 

Community  Concern 

Based  upon  the  interviews,  it  appears  there  was  little  concern  over  the  establishment  of  Home  Depot 
in  the  case  study  communities.  Generally,  responses  to  the  opening  of  a  Home  Depot  store  were 
positive.  A  few  smaller  retailers  did  express  concern  over  the  loss  of  potential  revenue.  Napa  was  the 
only  city  that  experienced  strong  opposition  to  its  planned  Home  Depot  store.  The  city  allayed  these 
fears  by  conducting  a  fiscal  impact  analysis,  which  indicated  that  Home  Depot  was  not  projected  to 
negatively  impact  existing  businesses. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


19 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


I  Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


By  case  study  community,  the  concerns  expressed  by  residents  and  retailers  were  as  follows: 

•  There  was  no  concern  in  Chico  regarding  the  opening  of  The  Home  Depot  store  per  se.  There  was 
concern  over  the  presence  of  big  box  retailers  prior  to  Home  Depot's  opening.  Home  Depot  was 
the  last  of  the  big  box  retailers  to  open  a  store  in  Chico.  By  the  time  Home  Depot  was  presented  as 
a  project,  the  public  was  already  familiar  with  the  approval  process  and  accustomed  to  the 
presence  of  big  box  retailers  in  the  city.  Some  smaller  retailers  showed  initial  concern  over  the 
loss  of  future  business.  According  to  a  Chico  official,  the  project  did  not  present  a  political  risk  for 
the  city,  which  chose  to  move  forward  with  the  project. 

•  The  community  of  Napa  initially  exhibited  strong  concern  over  the  opening  of  Home  Depot.  The 
community,  as  well  as  local  retailers,  expressed  concerned  that  Home  Depot  would  significantly 
impact  sales  of  smaller  lumber  companies  and  building  materials  retailers  in  the  area.  Prior  to 
approving  the  development  of  Home  Depot,  the  city  performed  a  fiscal  impact  analysis.  The  city 
found  there  was  a  substantial  leakage  of  home  improvement  retail  sales  in  the  Napa  market  area, 
and  that  no  negative  impacts  were  projected  for  existing  businesses. 

•  Folsom  did  not  encounter  any  concern  from  the  community  or  opposition  from  local  retailers.  All 
feedback  that  the  city  received  prior  to  the  approval  of  the  project  was  positive. 

Negative  Economic  Impacts 

The  negative  economic  impacts  associated  with  the  opening  of  a  Home  Depot  store  in  each  of  the  case 
study  cities  has  either  been  minimal  or  non-existent.  Chico  and  Folsom  identified  some  downturn,  but 
city  officials  were  unable  to  attribute  the  situation  to  the  presence  of  Home  Depot.  Napa  could  not 
identify  any  negative  impacts  as  a  result  of  Home  Depot's  presence. 

•  In  Chico,  a  Home  Base  store  closed  after  Home  Depot.  However,  Chico  officials  understand  this 
was  a  company-wide  decision  by  Home  Base  based  on  poor  sales  performances  of  their  other 
stores.  Home  Base  converted  their  stores  to  House2Home  and  refocused  their  products  from  home 
improvement  to  decorating.  While  some  smaller  hardware  stores  were  impacted  by  decreases  in 
sales,  they  did  not  go  out  of  business.  Further,  Chico  officials  could  not  identify  any  business  that 
closed  as  a  result  of  Home  Depot's  presence. 

•  Napa  could  not  identify  any  negative  economic  impacts  as  a  result  of  Home  Depot's  presence.  It 
was  reported  that  no  business  related  to  home  improvement  closed  because  of  Home  Depot's 
entrance  into  this  market. 

•  There  was  minimal  negative  economic  impact  in  Folsom  after  Home  Depot  opened.  A  small 
independent  hardware  store  went  out  of  business  shortly  before  Home  Depot  opened.  A 
lumberyard  that  was  in  business  changed  the  mix  of  its  products  and  expanded  its  hardware  line 
after  Home  Depot  opened.  A  Folsom  official  didn't  associate  these  changes  with  Home  Depot,  but 
rather  suggested  they  were  likely  the  result  of  poor  management. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


20 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


Additional  Business  Development 

The  case  study  findings  were  positive  regarding  the  development  of  additional  businesses  as  a 
complement  to  Home  Depot.  Although  Napa  did  not  experience  development  of  additional  businesses, 
the  presence  of  the  Home  Depot  store  raised  customer  awareness  of  other  home  improvement  stores  in 
the  area  and  helped  to  increase  sales  for  these  stores. 

•  A  Chico  official  stated  that  Home  Depot  directly  impacted  Lowes'  decision  to  locate  to  the 
shopping  center  where  Home  Depot  is  located.  In  addition,  Orchard  Supply  Hardware  recently 
purchased  land  in  Chico  for  a  new  store. 

•  Napa  felt  only  positive  impacts  from  Home  Depot's  presence.  The  store  helped  to  stop  the  leakage 
of  retail  sales.  According  to  a  Napa  official,  the  presence  of  the  store  also  highlighted  the 
availability  of  home  improvement  supply  stores  throughout  the  city.  Larger  home  improvement 
and  lumber  supply  stores,  such  Orchard  Supply  and  Ace  Hardware,  increased  sales  after  The 
Home  Depot  Store  opened. 

•  Folsom  is  a  growing  community.  Home  Depot  has  proven  to  benefit  the  city  by  helping  to  fulfill 
growth-related  needs.  Nurseries  are  doing  well,  and  a  Folsom  official  indicated  that  a  few 
nurseries  refer  customers  to  Home  Depot  for  select  garden  products.  One  nursery  is  contemplating 
opening  an  additional  nursery  near  Home  Depot  because  of  anticipated  synergy  with  Home  Depot. 
The  building  materials  industry  is  also  doing  well  in  part  because  of  the  housing  boom  Folsom  is 
currently  experiencing.  The  Broadstone  Center,  where  Home  Depot  is  located,  has  benefited  as 
well,  with  the  development  of  restaurants  and  other  stores,  including  a  Lowes  and  a  new  patio 
furniture  store  located  next  to  Home  Depot.  In  addition,  a  new  Orchard  Supply  Hardware  store 
was  developed  across  from  Lowes,  again  occurring  after  Home  Depot  opened  in  Folsom. 

Impact  On  Other  Shopping  Districts 

Shopping  districts  in  all  three  of  the  case  study  cities  were  not  affected  by  the  presence  of  Home  Depot 
in  their  communities.  Specific  city  findings  follow. 

•  No  shopping  districts  have  been  hurt  in  Chico  by  Home  Depot's  presence.  Home  Depot  is  located 
in  a  new  shopping  center  in  the  south  end  of  the  city.  Since  its  opening,  new  businesses  have  come 
to  the  shopping  center.  A  Chico  official  could  not  necessarily  attribute  this  increase  in  retail 
development  to  the  presence  of  Home  Depot  and  stated  that  the  majority  of  retail  growth  has 
occurred  in  this  area.  This  area  serves  as  a  retail  hub  for  other  areas  such  as  Paradise  and  Oroville. 

•  Shopping  districts  in  Napa  have  not  been  affected  by  the  presence  of  Home  Depot.  Home 
improvement  retailers  did  not  feel  the  impact  of  the  store's  presence  in  the  southern  section  of  the 
city  because  they  are  dispersed  throughout  Napa. 

•  Shopping  districts  in  Folsom  have  not  been  hurt  by  the  presence  of  Home  Depot.  However, 
shopping  districts  may  have  been  hurt  by  the  power  center  in  which  Home  Depot  is  located. 
According  to  a  Folsom  official,  smaller  retailers  also  may  have  been  hurt  by  the  selection  offered 
at  the  power  center,  although  this  official  could  not  be  certain.  Conversely,  Home  Depot  has  filled 
a  need  in  the  community.  Prior  to  Home  Depot  coming  to  Folsom,  people  drove  outside  the  city 
for  home  improvement  services;  now  they  are  purchasing  items  in  the  city  and  stopping  the 
leakage  of  market  area  retail  sales. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


21 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


Change  in  Retailer's  Perspective 

The  economy  was  thriving  a  year  and  a  half  ago  but  is  now  on  a  downward  swing.  Most  of  the  cities 
examined  have  felt  little  impact  from  the  turn  in  the  economy  because  of  the  diversity  of  their  local 
economies.  Generally,  city  officials  interviewed  could  not  speculate  on  how  retailer's  perspectives 
changed,  but  did  provide  some  insight.  Summaries  of  specific  findings  follow. 

•  The  economy  in  Chico  is  strong  and  has  been  relatively  unaffected  by  the  economic  slowdown. 
Chico  officials  do  not  expect  a  big  change  in  retailers'  perspectives.  Sales  tax  revenues  in  the  area 
continue  to  increase.  The  city  generally  expects  a  2  to  3  percent  annual  increase  in  sales  tax 
revenues.  Currently,  the  city  is  experiencing  a  10  percent  annual  increase  in  sales  tax  revenues. 

•  Napa  experienced  a  small  decline  in  retail  sales  within  the  last  year.  However,  because  of  its 
diverse  economy,  the  city  is  able  to  hedge  against  a  downward  swing  in  the  economy.  A  Napa 
official  pointed  out  that  regardless  of  how  slow  the  economy  performs,  they  have  found  that 
people  still  make  home  improvement  purchases.  The  city  does  not  anticipate  a  change  in  retailer's 
perspectives  in  the  future. 

•  Last  year  was  an  extremely  successful  year  for  Folsom  in  terms  of  retail  sales.  The  city  is  currently 
feeling  a  slight  slow  down  in  its  economy,  but  a  Folsom  official  stated  that  the  local  economy  is 
doing  better  that  the  average  over  the  last  five  years.  This  official  speculates  that  retailers  are 
postponing  making  any  decisions  due  to  the  unstable  political  and  economic  situation. 

Taxable  Sales  and  Outlets 

Trend  analysis  of  home  building  materials  and  home  furnishings/appliances  taxable  sales  and  outlets 
for  Chico  provides  information  regarding  the  growth  or  decline  of  stores  competitive  with  or 
complementary  to  Home  Depot.  These  trends,  presented  in  Exhibit  1 1,  indicate  that  Chico  experienced 
a  pronounced  increase  in  the  number  of  building  materials  and  home  furnishings/appliances  outlets 
since  1998,  when  the  Chico  Home  Depot  store  opened.  Businesses  related  to  the  sale  of  home 
furnishings/appliances  accounted  for  the  largest  increase,  growing  from  65  stores  in  the  year  prior  to 
Home  Depot's  opening  to  77  to  81  stores  in  2000.  Building  materials  stores  grew  by  1 1  outlets  during 
that  same  period.  Over  the  past  three  years,  the  city  enjoyed  a  healthy  37  percent  increase  in  inflation- 
adjusted  taxable  sales  for  home  furnishings/appliances,  a  category  that  competes  with  Home  Depot  but 
does  not  include  any  Home  Depot  sales.  Thus  it  is  clear  from  this  trend  that  complementary  home 
improvement  sales  in  Chico  experienced  a  strong  upswing  even  after  the  introduction  of  Home  Depot 
to  the  market. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


22 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


Summary  Case  Study  Findings 

The  preceding  findings  indicate  that  none  of  the  case  study  cities  experienced  significant  negative 
retailer  impacts  attributable  to  Home  Depot's  market  presence.  While  not  all  the  communities  initially 
embraced  Home  Depot's  market  entrance,  the  results  indicate  that  Home  Depot  helped  reverse  retail 
sales  leakage  and  increased  sales  at  complementary  home  improvement  stores.  If  any  negative  impacts 
did  occur,  they  were  in  the  nature  of  product  mix  changes  or  re  focusing  and  minimal  decreases  in  store 
sales  rather  than  any  store  closures.  Thus  the  experience  of  the  case  study  communities  and  their  home 
improvement  retailers  generally  appear  positive  and  supportive  of  Home  Depot  development. 

These  findings  support  Sedway  Group's  analytic  findings  regarding  the  prospective  economic  impacts 
of  the  planned  San  Francisco  Home  Depot  store.  Any  negative  impacts  that  did  occur  in  the  case  study 
communities  were  of  a  very  short-term  duration.  While  no  explicit  time  periods  were  cited  by  the  local 
economic  development  officials,  other  work  conducted  by  Sedway  Group  regarding  big  box  retailer 
economic  impacts  suggests  that  any  sales  declines  experienced  by  strong,  well-established  competitive 
market  area  retailers  are  typically  recovered  within  one  year,  or  two  years  at  most.  It  is  only  the  most 
marginal  of  store  operations  that  falter  within  that  time  period.  In  these  times  of  increasing  retail 
competitiveness,  such  stores  would  likely  falter  regardless  of  the  introduction  of  a  big  box  retailer. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


23 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


I  Rea  I  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


ASSUMPTIONS  AND  GENERAL  LIMITING  CONDITIONS 


Sedway  Group  has  made  extensive  efforts  to  confirm  the  accuracy  and  timeliness  of  the  information 
contained  in  this  study.  Such  information  was  compiled  from  a  variety  of  sources,  including  interviews 
with  government  officials,  review  of  City  and  County  documents,  and  other  third  parties  deemed  to  be 
reliable.  Although  Sedway  Group  believes  all  information  in  this  study  is  correct,  it  does  not  warrant 
the  accuracy  of  such  information  and  assumes  no  responsibility  for  inaccuracies  in  the  information  by 
third  parties.  We  have  no  responsibility  to  update  this  report  for  events  and  circumstances  occurring 
after  the  date  of  this  report.  Further,  no  guarantee  is  made  as  to  the  possible  effect  on  development  of 
present  or  future  federal,  state  or  local  legislation,  including  any  regarding  environmental  or  ecological 
matters. 

The  accompanying  projections  and  analyses  are  based  on  estimates  and  assumptions  developed  in 
connection  with  the  study.  In  turn,  these  assumptions,  and  their  relation  to  the  projections,  were 
developed  using  currently  available  economic  data  and  other  relevant  information.  It  is  the  nature  of 
forecasting,  however,  that  some  assumptions  may  not  materialize,  and  unanticipated  events  and 
circumstances  may  occur.  Therefore,  actual  results  achieved  during  the  projection  period  will  likely 
vary  from  the  projections,  and  some  of  the  variations  may  be  material  to  the  conclusions  of  the 
analysis. 

Contractual  obligations  do  not  include  access  to  or  ownership  transfer  of  any  electronic  data 
processing  files,  programs  or  models  completed  directly  for  or  as  by-products  of  this  research  effort, 
unless  explicitly  so  agreed  as  part  of  the  contract. 

This  report  may  not  be  used  for  any  purpose  other  than  that  for  which  it  is  prepared.  Neither  all  nor 
any  part  of  the  contents  of  this  study  shall  be  disseminated  to  the  public  through  publication 
advertising  media,  public  relations,  news  media,  sales  media,  or  any  other  public  means  of 
communication  without  prior  written  consent  and  approval  of  Sedway  Group. 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts 


24 


January  2002 


SEDWAY  GROUP 


Real  Estate  and  Urban  Economics 


APPENDIX 


San  Francisco  Home  Depot  Impacts  25  January  2002 


Exhibit  2 

1999  Retail  Sales  Leakage  Analysis 
San  Francisco 
In  Constant  2001  $s 


PER  CAPITA 

TOTAL 

' t  Retail  Category      .           •  IBs 

Bay  Area 
^Average 
Sales 

:  San 
;  Francisco 
Spending 

-   San  , 
4  Francisco 
Sales 

San  . 

■■  /-'Frandscb';.;-:;-.--;: 
~  "  Spending 

feaj  .  ,  San  y. 
T  Franasco 
V    1  Sales  *  *  - 

I*  .Attraction/, 
'  -  (Leakage) 

Women's  Apparel 

$140 

$129 

$346 

$101,912,557 

$272,857,107 

$170,944,550 

Men's  Apparel 

$80 

$74 

$179 

$58,723,398 

$141,196,874 

$82,473,477 

Family  Apparel 

$181 

$167 

$363 

$131,804,251 

$286,689,214 

$154,884,963 

Shoes 

$77 

$71 

$124 

$55,970,046 

$97,582,648 

$41 ,612,602 

Apparel  Stores  Group 

$477 

$441 

$1 ,01 1 

$348,410,251 

$798,325,843 

$449,91 5,591 

Other  General  Merchandise 

$1,373 

$1,269 

$1,272 

$1,001,689,950 

$1,003,937,030 

$2,247,081 

Drug  Stores  (1 ) 

$337 

$316 

$375 

$249,784,321 

$296,134,000 

$46,349,678 

General  merchandise  stores 

$1,710 

$1,586 

$1,647 

ffl    O  C -1  A~7A 

$1,251,4/4,2/1 

C -1    OAA  ^i7^  AOA 

$1,300,0/1,030 

$48,596, 759 

Gifts,  art  goods  and  novelties 

$72 

$67 

$217 

$52,741,872 

$170,948,059 

$118,206,187 

Sporting  goods 

$136 

$125 

$137 

$99,013,112 

$108,301,426 

$9,288,314 

Florists 

$35 

$32 

$47 

coc  enc  one 
$Zo,bUb,zUb 

<roc  ono  c-i  q 

.bob.oyz.bl  o 

*  11  ,zob,41z 

Photo  equip.,  and  supplies 

<C90 
•t>zu 

<C  1  ft 
4>  1  O 

3>4b,UoJ,4b/ 

i> Si  ,/bi  ,41z 

Musical  instruments 

3>  /  o 

^79 

^177 

<C^7  91ft  Q99 
4>D  /  ,Z  I  O.yZZ 

<C"I9Q  At^tl  7fifl 

<Cft9  99C  7QC 

j>oz,z  Jb,  /ob 

Stationary  and  books 

<p  1  OH 

■p  1  1  u 

1  *\A  9fi9  ^9ft 
4>  I  J'+.ZUZ.DZO 

tO^T  99fl  fi/lR 
>pZo  /  ,ZZU,b<tO 

•p  i u  j,u  i  o,  i  i y 

!at«/olr~v/ 
JCWCII  y 

$96 

$88 

$261 

$69,749,721 

$206,394,492 

$136,644,770 

Office,  store,  and  school  supply 

$717 

$663 

$728 

$522,957,271 

$574,633,482 

$51,676,212 

Other  specialties 

$553 

$511 

$820 

$403,437,377 

$647,278,563 

$243,841,186 

Specialty  Stores  Group 

$1,891 

$1,747 

$2,746 

$1,379,249,054 

$2,167,208,452 

$787,959,398 

Food  Stores  Selling  Liquor  (1) 

$1,393 

$1,343 

$1,415 

$1,059,847,372 

$1,116,791,710 

$56,944,338 

All  Other  Food  Stores  (1) 

$505 

$487 

$417 

$384,181,021 

$328,910,287 

($55,270,734) 

Food  Stores  Group 

$1,898 

$1,829 

$1,832 

$1,444,028,393 

$1,445,701,996 

$1,673,604 

Eating  Places:  no  alcohol 

$426 

$397 

$543 

$313,483,116 

$428,227,472 

$114,744,356 

Eating  Places:  beer  and  wine 

$398 

$371 

$668 

,$292,746,818 

$527,186,701 

$234,439,884 

Eating  and  Drinking:  liquor 

$461 

$430 

$1,202 

$339,034,331 

$948,564,407 

$609,530,077 

Eating  and  Drinking  Group 

$1,284 

$1,198 

$2,412 

$945,264,265 

$1,903,978,581 

$958,714,316 

Hshold  and  Home  Furnishings 

$374 

$349 

$665 

^97^  7A1  H94 

.pOZH  ,00  J,D  I  O 

H9ZQ  C\RA  A.QH 

Household  Appliance  Dealers 

$181 

$_169 

$136 

■till  "im  4fii 

»P  l  \J  1  ,-JvJ'J,  IU£ 

Ck?^  QftO 

\^IjL^J  ,C7UU  ,£.33  I 

Household  Group 

$556 

$519 

$801 

$409,291,485 

$632,415,676 

$223,124,191 

Lumber  and  Building  Materials 

$522 

$475 

$200 

$374,876,099 

$158,092,595 

($216,783,505) 

Hardware  Stores 

$126 

$115 

$70 

$90,483,966 

$55,401,348 

($35,082,618) 

Plumbing  and  Electrical  Supplies 

$111 

$101 

$97 

$79,433,453 

$76,796,923 

($2,636,530) 

Paint,  Glass,  and  Wallpaper 

$41 

$38 

$41 

$29,729,430 

$32,429,222 

$2,699,792 

Building  Material  Group 

$799 

$728 

$409 

$574,522,947 

$322,720,087 

($251,802,860) 

New  Motor  Vehicle  Dealers 

$1,601 

$1,490 

$452 

$1,175,807,297 

$357,053,986 

($818,753,312) 

Used  Motor  Vehicles 

$116 

$108 

$23 

$85,075,802 

$18,349,639 

($66,726,163) 

Automotive  Supplies  and  Parts 

$137 

$127 

$66 

$100,599,981 

$52,485,778 

($48,114,203) 

Service  Stations 

$716 

$682 

$544 

$538,119,536 

$429,431,705 

($108,687,831) 

Automotive  Group 

$2,571 

$2,407 

$1,086 

$1,899,602,616 

$857,321,108 

($1,042,281,509) 

Packaged  Liquor  Stores 

$88 

$74 

$108 

$58,311,441 

$85,569,042 

$27,257,601 

Second-Hand  Merchandise 

$18 

$16 

$37 

$12,898,716 

$29,254,024 

$16,355,308 

Farm  Implement  Dealers 

$65 

$59 

$0 

$46,915,197 

$0 

($46,915,197) 

Farm  and  Garden  Supply  Stores 

$56 

$52 

$15 

$41,157,161 

$11,688,794 

($29,468,367) 

Fuel  and  Ice  Dealers 

$10 

$9 

$0 

$7,181,292 

$0 

($7,181,292) 

Mobile  Homes,  Trailers,  and  Camp. 

$24 

$22 

$0 

$17,668,161 

$0 

($17,668,161) 

Boat,  Motorcycle.Plane  Dealers 

$61 

$56 

$34 

$44,378,945 

$27,128,387 

($17,250,558) 

All  Other  Retail  Store  Total 

$322 

$290 

$195 

$228,510,913 

$153,640,247 

($74,870,666) 

Retail  Stores  Total 

$11,508 

$10,744 

$12,139 

$8,480,354,195 

$9,581,383,020 

$1,101,028,825 

Notes: 

(1)  Taxable  transactions  for  grocery  stores  and  drug  stores  have  been  adjusted  by  .3  and  .7,  respectively,  to  account  for  non-taxable  sales. 

(2)  Sales  figures  have  been  adjusted  by  the  increase  in  the  Consumer  Price  Index  for  the  San  Francisco,  Oakland,  San  Jose  MSA. 

Sources:  Stale  Board  of  Equalization  Taxable  Sales  in  California-  1999 ";  Association  of  Bay  Area  Governments  (ABAG)  "Projections  '2000"  .  U.S.  Department  of  Labor.  Bureau  of 
Labor  Statistics.  Consumer  Price  Index;  Sedway  Group. 

J:\word _processing\word_docsVprojectsV27202  Home  Oepot  SFM,Leakage  Categories  Bayshore.xIsjLeakage  


V) 

CD 

t 

o 

O) 

<D 

C3 

o 

c 

cd 

E 

CD 

> 

O 

i— 

O- 

E 

0) 

E 

o 

o 

o 

CO 

X 

CO 

1 

'5 

s 

CO 

an 

'« 

i— 

X 

>. 

u. 

LLI 

co 

c 

c 

CO 

< 

CO 

cn 

CO 

.X 

(0 

CD 

_J 

V) 

0) 

CO 

(0 

CD 

a: 

CO 

a> 

<0 

oo 


o 
o 

CN 
C 

co 

to 
c 
o 

a 


%  TO  CO 


WW 


CO  " 


CO 


c;  co 


<r- 

~r 

CD 

co 

cn 

CD 

CD 

r-2 

■<a- 

in 

CD 

in 

h~ 

CO 

CO 

nJ 

co 

CD 

cn 

CN 

00 

CD 

oo 

cn 

CD 

00 

o 

t — ) 

CD 

00 

^j- 

cn 

CD 

m" 

CN 

CN 

T — 

cn 

CN 

•q- 

CO 

oo 

oo 

in 

CN 

CO 

CN 

CN 

OO 

CN 

OO 

c/> 

OO 

OO 

0O 

m 

in 

00 

co 

CN 

r^- 

n- 

CD 

^ — 

CD 

CM 

CN 

oo 

cn 

cn 

en 

m 

CO 

cn 

CN 

o 

CO 

in" 

CM 

co~ 

cn 

o" 

oo" 

CO 

CO 

o 

cn 

CN 

CN 

oo 

Is- 

co 

o 

n- 

h- 

CD 

<N 

■sr 

OO 

in 

cd" 

CN 

CN 

x — 

cn 

CM 

in 

in 

r-- 

CO 

CN 

in 

m 

oo 

OO 

OO 

co 

C/> 

oo 

oo 

CO 

OO 

OO 

CJ) 

CD 

CO 

o 

Is- 

CO 

CM 

cn 

CD 

in 

CO 

CD 

co 

O 

o 

cn 

^3- 

cn 

CD 

co" 

co~ 

cn' 

cm" 

T"~ 

CO 

00 

CO 

CN 

CN 

in 

CD 

oo 

r-- 

in 

^ — 

in" 

o" 

CD 

cn 

T — 

cn 

CN 

cn 

CN 

00 

0O 

oo 

oo 

m 

oo 

oo 

oo 

oo 

CO 

oo 

m 

CD 

co 

OO 


tn 
cn 
c 

!c 
co 


3 
LL 

CD 

E 
o 

"a 
c 

CO 

o 

sz 

CD 
tf) 

O 


O  O  N  HO) 

O  N  O)  4  O 

CN  OO  0O  OO) 
OO  OO 


cn 

in 

in 

CO| 

oo 

Is- 

o 

CO 

CN 

CO 

n- 

Is- 

oo 

0O 

oo 

oo 

oo 

CN 

in 

oo 


CN 

CO 

cn 

CO 

o 

CN 

CN 

cn 

in 

CO 

OO 

in 

oo 

CM 

oo 

oo 

OO 

oo 

oo 

T — 

cn 
c 


■5  a> 

tn  CO  o 

CO  to  f/j 

CD    CO  CD 

CO  CO 

cn.  E  ^ 

c  zj  ro 

32  -1  1 
CD 


co 
CD 

15_ 

TO  Q- 

II 

o  > 
-o 
LU  c 

C  Cfl" 

CO  tn 
cn  ™  — 
.E  O  iS 

X3      .  O 

||  i, 
_    CO  3 

Q_  CL  CO 


<n 

CD 

o 
CO 

CL 
Q_ 

CO 
c 

CD 

"O 
1  

CO 

CD 


00 


< 
O 


< 
CO 


CD 
co 
O 

-3 
C 

co 
CO 

T3 

c 

TO 

co 
O 

o" 
o 
<n 

0 


c: 
co 
CO 

CD 
si 


x 
d) 

£Z 

CD 
O 

CL 

CD 

E 
w 

CZ 

o 
O 

CD 


CD 
CO 
CO 

a> 
o 

CZ 


■a 

0) 

00 

CO 
c 

CD 
CD 

CD 
> 
CO 

sz 
(n 

CD 

t_ 
rj 
cn 

CO 

JD 
CO 
CO 


Q 

CO 

r5 


o 


< 

ca 

< 


CO 


O  a.  a. 

S  o  Q 

S  O  g 

m  >»  t 

rn  ro  0 

W  $  I 

<U  X3 

<0  C/J  cvj 


~  CD 

ra  o  if 

&  P  -§ 

111  t  o. 


O 


co 

CO 
c/i  4- 

<U  O  T3 
°    m  ' 


o>  o> 

"5  to 

o  CO 

O) 

«J  o 
«  Q- 
O 

C  <u 

E  E 

>  -1- 

o  -o 


0) 

E 
o 

<tf  X 

x:  'w 

X  >> 

w  * 

c 

< 

<D 
O 
TO 

TO 

(1) 


2  * 

x:  r- 

*->  o 

">  o 

>  CM 

■a  *s 

a>  c 

»-  fa 
to 


E 
o 
o 

<D 
Ol 
TO 

TO 


_CD 

TO  O 

CO  O 

TO  "O 

*-  c 

2  TO 


CD 

O  C 

CD  TO 

t-  CO 


E  -w 
o  «> 

X  CD 

—  £0 
iS  u 

O  >'*- 
:;<D  > 


£  CD 

o 

in  .a. 

ID  CD 

Q 


CM 


.Hi  C 

t  2 


_  —  CD 
CO  ^  _j 

co   '-  -— 


:  o 
..  cn 

_(D 

"ro 
O 

-2 

-£T 

jpc~ 
:<  a) 
E 

CD 
> 

Q 

E 

ISO 
E 


o 
o 
o 
o 

CO 


to 
cn 
c 

!c 

CO 

"c 

u 
3 
U_ 
CD 

E 
o 
X 


CD 

o 
xz 

CD 
CO 

O 

X 


o  o  o  o 

o  o  o  o 

o  o  o  o 

o~  o  o"  o~ 

co  in  oo  t- 

t-  O  CM  h~ 

r~"  cn"  t-"  cd 

t-  cy>  t- 


CO 

c 


co 

CD 

a. 

co  _9- 

If 

CD  -n 


CO 
CD  ID 


O  "D 
C 


CD  CO 
CO  ™  — 

c  CD  -2 
o 


to 

CD 
CD 

"2  E 

X  Q.  0.  CO 


3 

CO 


o 
o 
o 

o 

o 
cm" 


CO 
0) 


CO 

j>> 

CL 
Q_ 
3 

CO 
c 

CD 

■a 

CD 

O 


o 

lO 

SET 

O 

CM 

o 

t~- 

CD 

o 

CO 

CD 

CD 

CD 

CO 

in 

CD 

in 

r- 

OO 

CO 

r-_ 

co" 

cm" 

cd" 

cd" 

cm" 

oo" 

cd" 

OO 

OO 

CO 

CO 

CD 

O 

CD 

CO 

o 

o 

CD 

CD 

00 

cd" 

CD 

m" 

cm" 

cm" 

cd" 

cm" 

co 

0O 

in 

CM 

CO 

CM 

CM 

c/> 

CM 

<^> 

(A 

if* 

< 
o 


o 

o 

CO 

c^ 

ro 

ll 

CD 

CO 

CD 

£1 

o 

X 

<D 

73 

cz 

CD 

n 

<u 

E 

CO 

o 

O 

<u 

X 

CZ 

CD 

to 

CO 

CD 

O 

_c 

CD 

x: 

>. 

XJ 

T3 

QJ 

00 

X> 

TO 

C 

a> 

0) 

XI 

> 

< 

x: 

CO 

co 

m 

CD 

Z) 

(O 

O) 

o 

c 

14= 

3 

o 

<D 

m  CO 

t5 

en 

CO  ^ 

CD 

to  in  cy) 


Xj 

■a"  x: 
c  x 
ro  UJ 

CD 
CD 


co 


O  co  w 


to 


< 

CQ 
< 

<2  E 
c  o 

CD  O 
E  CD 


o 
O 

CD 
<D 

<  a) 
o 

TO 

m 

O  CL  ™ 
3  CO 

O  P  t/1 

=  (T  fD 

o  >>  2. 

o  "!  en 

<n  5  <D 

5  "o  co 


CO 


O 

CD 
x  cn 

CD  CD 
XI 

n  co 

—  CD 


C  c  LL 

5  CL  00 

TO  Si 

P  E 


co  O 

<o  x 

-°  'en  ° 

CO    -—  CN 


CO 


ro 


c  o  ^ 
O  J]  ,« 


3  "O 

to 


n  a.  g 

O    CD  = 

co  Q 


a 

O 
O) 
<D 
TO 

o 


i-  C  CMT 


uj  2? 

o 

XZ 
01 

>^ 
to 

CD 


CM 


c 

0) 

E 

Q) 

>  t;  -r- 
o  o  0 

i-  O  Q 
Q.  CM 

E 

—  r~  C 

O  (J)  (B 

E  S2  ^ 

0  c 

1  s 

CO  C 


co 


:  o 


o  o  o  o 

o  o  o  o 
co  co  m  co 

CO"  x— "  f-~  00 
CO  <N  CN  1^ 
lO  O  CM 

<m"  h-"  m"  cm 


</»  </>  t/> 


M"  CO  CO  CO  C7> 


10(0  0)0 

N  t  lO  CO 

co  m  co  o 

co"  oo"  cm  co" 

in  o  cm  co 

CO  N  CO 

oo"  cn  m  cm" 


cm  m  co  co  to 


CD  CO  CO  CO 

o  M"  m  co 
M"_  r-  t-  co 

CD  t— "  CO  CM 
M"  O)  t-  CO 

O)  co  in  -r- 
co"  co  co"  cm" 


i/>  i/>  &y 


o  ■<—  i-  m 

CO  co  ■<—  <Ji 

in  co  i —  Is— 

r-  r--  co 

TT  M"  CD  t- 

n  co  m  r 
o"  r-  co"  cm" 


t/»  */»  ty*  to 


o  CM 
CO  CO 

<o 


co  o  m  co 


oo    i2  0) 


'  UJ  w 

P 
fc  c: 


o 

"=>fc 


<  <  <  < 

Z  Z  Z  Z 


cn  o  o  o 


in  cm  cm  co  co 


S?  3?  <  „ 
cm  o  Z  o  T- 


co 


01 

c 


•  3 

£ 
o 
X 


V) 

_cu 

Q. 
CL 

co  I 
Si 


«?  £>  c3  _  „ 

C  T)  S  «  ? 

<u  5  W  uj  5i 

|(D<B  O)  TO 

1   §  CD   3  -S  ^ 

3  _i  X  0.  0.  n 

m  </) 


< 
l- 
O 


co  < 


<7)  ro 

N  O 

CO  _ 

>  o 

CO  <J 

x:  co 

O  o 

t_  cz 

CO  co 


LL 


CO 
O  CZ 

CO  QJ 


<u 

0)  X 


CD  <_> 
CD  "C 
•t  Q_ 


*-T  €/) 

CO  c 

CD  O 

3  O 

CO  CD 

£  £ 

o  g  d 


co  o  c 
If  I 

D>  CD  — 

x  £  £ 


£  =i  o 

£  «  S 

</,    5  <0 


J?    CD  ^ 


S  ra5 

f  SE 

cn  to  o 
CD  C/3  O 


O 


co 


1—  lw 

O  < 
co  d 

0 


c 
di 

E 

0) 

> 
o 

CO  ^ 

5  1 

LU  o 
X 


CD 

CD 
<J> 
CO 


O  CM 

sz 

</)  </> 
>.  </} 

TO  _ 

si  o 

CM 


>  C 

TJ  W 

£  <0 

CO  C 

Cl  O 

E  ° 
o  c 
o  *- 

o 
o 

V) 

"o 
c 
co 


c 

CO 

00 


CO 
CD 

■  i_ 

< 

■  Z3 

CO 


rf£  cd 
.  to-  >~ 

m  CO 

-  o 

t  .«» 

CO  o 

"  CO 


c  co 

CD 

J  CD  =J 

CL  CO 


"O  V 
ZJ 

CO 
J  „>  CO 
?>  CD 


< 


to  : 

co 
m 


o 

CO 


<o 

CD 

cr 
"x: 

CO 

"c 

Ll_ 

CD 

E 
o 

X 
T3 

tz 
CD 

tj 
o 

XI 
CD 

to 

13 

o 

X 


co 


N  CO  CO  (D 
CD  ID  CM  CO 


co 

a> 
to 


CO 

rz 


Z3 

jo  CQ 

CO  T> 
"C  CZ 
CD  CO 

I  * 

co  E 

E  Z> 

p  — I 

"5 
CD 


w 

CD 

75_ 
CL  «- 
3  £ 

co  S- 
co 

TO  J2- 

.y  76 

o  > 
^  -o 
LU  c 

"O  ro 
c  « 
co  to 

co  ™  — 
.E  CD  S 

JD      .  O 

E  c  ' 
2  76 


x> 

3 

Q_  CL  CO 


CO 


to 

CM 
CJ> 


^° 

^5 

0s 

CM 

un 

CO 

■^r 

T — 

CM 

CO 

CD 

CO 

CO 

CD 

CD 

CD 

o 

M" 

tn 

CD 

M" 

OO 

CD 

o" 

CO 

CM 

r~- 

co 

00 

CO 

Is- 

CO 

cn 

OO 

ID 

to 

OO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CM 

CD 

CO 

CM 

h- 

t/} 

to 

CD 

o 

fcO 

</} 

60 

eo 

m 

ID 

CO 

co 

CM 

r-~ 

CM 

CO 

CM 

CD 

o 

to 

ID 

co 

en 

CM 

o 

CD 

ID 

CM 

CO 

CO 

o 

ID 

CD 

CD 

o 

en 

CM 

CM 

00 

co 

O 

^ 

r^- 

ID 

oo~ 

tn 

co~ 

CM~ 

cm" 

r~- 

CM 

ID 

tn 

r- 

CO 

CM 

M" 

ID 

to 

t/> 

CO 

co 

in 

< 
h- 
o 

t— 


"x: 


<D  < 
CO  CO 


■C  CO 

g  s 

si  1 

±=  CO 

o  CO 


2  ra 

|  8 
5-8 

>-  c 

CO  CO 

CO  •- 

CD  LL 

O  c 

T3  CO 

C  CO 

CO  oj 


O  C 


CD  ~ 

-a  tu 

co  I 
cn 

<P  c 

gj  o 

5  O 

<D  OJ 

£  x 


co 

>.  2 

CO  o 
CD  CD 

X  ^ 

i?  -q 

T3  "a 

CD  jfi 


81 


XI 

CO  ® 

CD  -° 

<  5 

>.  CO 

T3  x: 

3  a> 

co  S 

2  g, 


CO 


CO  CO 
CO  CO 


o 

o 


O 


O  tO 

O  > 

O  LL 

p  $ 


°  O 


LL 

£  to 

CTJ  o 

O  Q. 

> —  <D 

S  Q 

<"  CD 

«  E 

ro  o 

CO  ^ 

®  04 

XI  o 

ro  cm 

ro  ^ 

=  f) 

c  t> 

0  cu^ 

ro  e 

y  o. 

1  s 

LTl- 

o  ^ 

B  i 


CD  -S 

CO 

<D  oo 

2  S 

to  o 

</>  i 

CU  "O 

5  s 


to 


-a 

»-  UJ 

co  a, 

m  CO 


o  t- 

in  c 
>>  o 
ca  r; 
CO  3 
■  xi 

O 

a.  <2 
x> 


■a  CI 
o§ 

-C  <N 

in 

1(3 


E 

o 
o 


TO 

0)  '■ 

< 

c/) 

O  -:oj 

::CD 


CO 


o 

Q_ 

0) 

Q 

Q) 

o 

om 

teq 

I 

CO 

O 

~a 

CD 

>. 

N 

.o 

c/> 

15 

CD 

co 

co 

CO 

CO 

TO 

0) 

TO 

LUI 

CO 

LU 

CO 
CO 

co  g 

•.3z.-.'Ai 


E 
o 
I 


o 
X 


Ifl  (fl  O)  o 

t~~  tj-  m  n 

co  co  co  o 

CO  CO  CN  CO 

m  o  (N  n 


CO     CD     CO  CN 


m  to  co  to 


CD  t —  CO 


W    »    (»  » 


CO     CO  CO 


ateri 

Suj 

per 

cal 

Ipa 

CD 

TO 

es 

ec 

'5 

UJ 

m 

o 

x> 

an 

nd 

CO 

ar 

</i 

CD 

CO 

CD 

CD 

Tiber 

rdwat 

imbin 

int  Gl 

3 

CD 

_, 

CD 

_i 

X 

o_ 

0_ 

3 
CO 


CO 
LU 

 I 

< 
CO 

Q 
LU 
N 
_l 

55 
< 


™  o>  tr 
«  ro  5! 

m  -o 


o  c"  o 


0) 


If  11 


O  O  «  ±: 


^  £  Q  «  2 
—  O  cu  !c  *o 


8-.s  of- 

Q  I  2 

fS|. 

„  •  o 
c  £0 

S  s  5 

cn   c  —  . 

S  o 

O    £  -o  ; 

"  is- 
5  if- 

o  x  3  : 

.c  5  -P 


in    CO    r-  t    <~  CI 


o>  co 


co  = 
E 


CO       i_       Q__  O 

^   Hi  e 


U  O  X  «r 


E  o 
E>o^ 


ro  ==  co 
P  £  £ 


«  o  a  '5 


>■  CL 

£  p 


—  CD  o 
O-  .0  a. 

S  °S 

<u  -jt  E 

i 

~  o  -1- 

B  ^8 

o  u  m 
f  »  " 

>    </)  CO 


LU  o 


co  a> , 

E  S 


O-  p  —  .P  m  O  2!  CO 
E  i  »   «   >     -  O  (- 

s p  He 

O  O  o 
5  cl'= 

Ji  Q  E 
£  m  o 

—  -r  OJ 
•  j= 
w  <i>  ^j 


.P  aj 

ro  ro 

o  cn 

P  a, 


>?    P     Q.   O  ~ 


S    ro  o  o 


Q  2  x 

a.  2  w 

E  <u  •- 

O  J=  c 

n  o  ■-  r 


i!    u    «  «i 


-C  cn  O  - 
Cn  **-  cn 


o   S    ,  i 


CD 

o  p  :.o 
x 

<u  S  £ 

t—  CL  CO 

o  cu  y. 

-c  Q  u- 


CD 


«  ro  °  ° 
5  »^!» 


w  «  ^ 

c  XT  ro 

—  ro  jz 

c  DQ  cn 


O   >  cn 


•  cu 
CD  o 

a)  X  E 

£  a.  2 

■a  >>  <o 

a>  -o  ? 


o  <o  o) 

Q)  Jf  > 

cT  Ol  T3 

cl  *o  _>> 

J=  Ji  <« 


5  "o 

CL  Tt 


■5,2  °  S- 


Q 
<D 

E 
o 
X 
cn 
c 

2  S 


S  S  cn  £  W  P 


5   v)  o 


to  — ^  — 


o 

^  TO  O 
m  CO  </> 

■a    .  <a 

fl)    (D  5 


o  —  o  co  <u 

.  C  CL  to  > 
"«  QJ  "> 


o  £ 


ro  cn  ce 

o  a,  _>> 
"  o 


O   cn   co  JC 


3 
o 

3  X 

CL  ■ 
CO  "O 

o  a, 


alcS 


P  o 


cn    i-  ~  D) 

5-  S  »  s 


0Q    >-    Q  CL  X  O 


r-     OJ     CO  ^ 


E  .P 
E 


« 

CQ  _ 
tj  ro  >^ 
cu  £  ro 
m 


01 

E 
o 
X 

-  a»  a)  3  _«i 


£>  ro 


o>  o   o,  ^- 


.  ^    ro    cn  0, 


m  o 


-1  cu 
CD 

O  to 

c 
a, 

fa 

CL  <U 
<U  CD 
Q  00 


C  CD 

O  CL 


to         »-—  co 


o    o       O  s 


ra  o 


w  rs 


3^ 


5  s 

O 
CL 

Q 

QJ  Q 

E  n 


«  < 


01  3 
TO  CO 
O  O 


Q- 
°°  E 

2  * 

if 

co 

'w 
_>» 
ra 
c 
< 

<u 


m  <o 

C  </} 

O  r- 

o§ 

Q_  ^ 

E  5 

—  CO 

o  g 

o  o 

Q  U 

CD  C 

E 
o 
X 


2.  E 


CD 


<S  t. 
O)  o 

cc 

CO 

E 

3 

E 

"x 

CQ 


CO 


to 
J  CD 
®  to 
o  co 


o 


o 

_  Q. 

£  □ 
Q-  a> 
to;  2 
o  c  0J  o 

O  cj 
^  X  CO 


to 

a,  tz 
f  -  co 


q.J 
to  co 


u_  co 


X3  (Z  Q> 
$>  k  id 
15  -r  CO 

CD  _ 

2"^  CL 
i-i  iO.'tt) 
»-  Q 


itx 


CM 


•il  cz  " 

sap 

si's 


■BP™ 


0 

Q 

o~ 

O 

O 

o 

~z. 

CD 

CO 

CO 

o 

N" 

co 

3? 

n- 

1 

N 

CO 

' 

co 

r — 

00 

v° 

< 

^5 

o 

O 

o 

o 

o 

 _ 



CO 

0 

o 

o 

to 

0 

o 

o 

0 

CD 

O 

o 

CO 

cd" 

o 

LO 

CO 

o 

o 

CO 

CD 

c ; 

o 

LO 

o 

CN 

CM 

o 

o 

to 

<s 

cn 

cn 

cn 

CD 

O 

O 

CO 

N 

o 

0 

0 

c^ 

CO 

CO- 

c^ 

_ 

- 

00 

N" 

OO 

VTT 

o 

-  o 

^  0 

3^ 

0- 

0^ 

N" 

CN 

LO 

0 

CO 

N 

CM 

to 

CO 

CD 

< 

in 

N" 

to 

CO 

z 

r^- 

00 

LO 

CO 

o 

LO 

10" 

CO- 

CO 

CN 

co- 

co- 

CO 

LO 

o 

CM 

co 

CO 

co 

00 

CO 

CO 

LO 

CO 

- 

N" 

t/> 

co 

to 

to 

to 

T  

ty> 

o 

o 

o 

o 

O 

o 

0 

0 

o 

to 

o 

f-- 

ty> 

0 

o 

N- 

o 

N" 

0 

o~ 

co" 

o" 

co- 

o" 

in 

in 

0 

r- 

co 

t~- 

CO 

CO 

CO 

co~ 

LO" 

a>" 

to 

to 

CM 

eo 

bO 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

0 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

0 

o" 

o 

o 

o 

o' 

o 

0 

o" 

N" 

r-- 

o 

CM 

r— 

CN 

0 

0 

CO 

h-" 

a> 

co" 

CM 

0" 

ty> 

to 

N" 

t/> 

to 

eo 

to 

eo 

o 

(n 

So" 

o 

CM 

o 

CD 

o 

CO 

CD 

CO 

CO 

CO 

n- 

LO 

<r> 

LO 

00 

CO 

co- 

CN 

co- 

cri 

CM 

00" 

co" 

00 

co 

co 

co 

CD 

o 

co 

00 

o 

r- 

o 

CO 

CO 

00 

cd" 

co~ 

LO 

c\T 

cm" 

a> 

CM- 

N- 

CO 

to 

CN 

CO 

CN 

CN 

eo 

CN 

to 

CD 

E 
o 
X 

"D 
C 
CD 

o 


Q.  CO 
CL  Q. 

3  = 

CO 


CQ 


LU 


CO  X>  CO 

QJ  CO  CD 

I  c5  § 
D)  E  ;= 

C  3  CO 
|JI 

ZJ 
CD 


CO  </> 

-ci  -  2. 

_  CO  Z3 

0_  0.  CO 


o 
CO 


CL 
CL 

CO 

c 

CD 


co  O 
(3  (- 


< 
CO 


CO 
CO 


CO 

O 


CO 
LL 

c 

CO 

CO 
CU 


CD 

E 

in 
cz 
o 
O 


CD 

s 


C 
CO 

co 
c 
o 


CL 

E 


CD  O 
^  O) 
TO 

^  g 
CD  ^_ 

ro  o 

§  2 

w  <S 

cu  w 

E  - 

3  CO 

E  £ 
S  0 

CO  *- 

1° 

Q. 
—  O 
(/)  Q. 


E  £ 

3  a) 
co  co 
</)  > 

m  - 


—   O   10  (O 


CD 
Q 


o 
X 


tr 

CD 
CD 
£1 

CD 
> 
CO 
-C 

CO  N 
CD 

3  -Q 

cn  x: 

X 

co  UJ 

aj  co 

CO  CD 
CO  CO 


111  £ 

cd 

co^ 

co  co 

00  CO 

o  10 

o  £ 

CM  O 
CO 

CD  C1- 

«  5 

CO  co 

^  x: 
o 

Q  g 

CD  i=k 

E 

o  .!2 

x  & 

CD  o 

o  01 

CO  <o 
CO 


CO 
LL 

x:  c 

X  CO 
LU  CO 

CD  0 

co  r 


CD  co 
CO  to 

t« 

>>  CD 
"O  <— 
3  CO 

to  >• 

CD 

o 

^  E 

>-  o  • 

CO  a= 

m  ^ 

o  «  • 

0  cx 
ca  cd 

Q-T3  1 

.ig 

CD    CD  ( 

>  > 
co  '"o  • 

01  CD 
g  CO 

E  g, 

CD  ™ 
5    CO  : 

x:  .— 

CO  CO 
T3  CD 
CD  ■- 

o  01 
.9^  — 
o  « 

Q_  X 

E>2 

3  O 

E 


X 


CO 


CO  g 

E  x 


c^  « 


O  02 

O  CD 

O  CD 

CN  t- 


<  < 


o  ~- 

CL  CO 
CD  CD 

CD  CD 

E  S 


x:  >•  >» 


(1)  «    O  U 

CD  D5 
O 

.CU  CO 

O  _CD 

CL 


o  ~  £  fo 


o 

CD  Q_ 
co  a) 

ciQ 
E  v 
o  E 

o  O 
co  X 


CO  CO 

CD  CD 

o  o 

sz  x: 

CO  CO 

>. 

CO  CO 

CD  CD 


3  CO 

cn  co 

^  CD 

CD  E 

£  =1 


C  CD 
CO  "O 

£  co 


>,  E 
c  — 

°  CD 

-  a. 

w  r- 


0 

co 

CZ 

CL 

CD 

E 

X3 

co 

E 

CD 

CD 

imu 

O 
O 

etail 

X 

CO 

CO 

■<J 

X 

E 

0 

0 

Fra 

jQ 
CD 

£Z 

XI 

CO  T3 

CO  2 
CO 

0  F 

Q  cd 
CD  CL 

§0 

X  o 
cz  CO 

«  m 
■g  CO 

81  CD* 
£  o 

CO  oj 

o 

S  S 


CO  — 
CO  ^ 

is  o 

CD  CZ 

o  ro 
c5.€ 


CD   ™  2 

Is 

7=  CO 

CD  CD 
^ 

CD  "O 

Q.  3 

CO  to 

CO  CD 

CO  CO 

co  8 

CO  3 

CO  o 

CD  ,_- 

O  CD 

W  CD 

CO  o 
CQ  X 
CO  ■ 
cz  <? 
0) 

o 

X  " 
CD 


.<2  E 

CO  1- 

>.  o 
15  t 

CO  D- 


CO  CD 
C  > 
O 


CZ  CD 
O  "O 
r 


^  CZ 


—  CO 

_  o 

2  CD 


®  CO 

=  s 

CO  <5 
CZ 


CZ 
CO 

CO 
tz 
o 

o 
co 

CL 

E 


3  CD 

o  x: 
co 

—  c 

O  ~ 
o  CO 

.52  co 
o  .— 

C  CO 
2  CD 
LL 

sg 

o  c 

CD  ^ 
r-  x 

—  2 

co  Q- 
<D  CD 


CD  CD 

<  .E 

>"  CD 

3  -° 

CO  cc? 

CD  E 

O  CD 

w  8 

CO 

CQ  co 
cn£ 
c 


CO 


o 

_  CO 
X  "*~ 
CD  4) 

e£ 

O  CO 


T3  CD 
-2  > 
8 


Q.  > 
CD 


CD 

o  to 
S-  0 

Q  5 
0 

E  I 
X 


CD  .>  <D 


CD 


£  5 

o  o 

Q.  X 
CD 

Q  -O 

CO  § 

E  E 

o  CO 

X  -o 


CD  O 


CO  fo 


o-  £Z 
CO  CO 


-  O 

CO  i_ 

CD  o 

<  "S 

>,  2 

"a  ' 
3 


cz 
_  o 
co  o 

CD  CO 
JZ  C 


C  -,7i 


.  .  CO 

CO  0 
CD  o 

CL 

o 


CO 


N 
<D 
CO 
T3 

ca  g 

CO 

co  co 

TO  CD 
CO  ^ 

3 

^1 
o  OT 

w  8 

—I  -CZ 


CD  Si 

3  S 

co  E 

co  x: 


8  03 

—  cn 


CL  CO 
CO  Q_ 
CD  CD 

QJ  x: 


3  52 

co  E 

0  3 

CQ  U" 

.  CD 

o  E 

Q_  O 

CD  X 

<=>  "O 

CD  CZ 

E  ro 

O  T3 

X  O 

0  o 

o  x 
o..g 

CD  TD 

-CZ  CD 

-o 

E  ^ 

o  o 

c 

p  CO 

>  CD 

m  o 

CD  CO 


CZ  lu 
CD  CO 


co  ^  E 

•s  ^  «  > 

<o  ca  =  o 

cj  co  co  O 

O 
o 


"      lT  o 


tz  o 

3  T3 
LL  CZ 
CD 

CD  > 


Ol  S.  CO 
3  E"  N 

°b 

too 


<<    CO  -*-< 
CO 

•a  2  - 

=>  3  £ 

«|o 

CD  ^ 


8  £  £ 

2  21 

CD 

LZ  £  Jf 

TD  = 

CO  $  O 

CO  " 

™  c  2 

E  CO  CD 


CO  x5 

CQ  CO 

CO  ° 

£  co 

c  .£ 


E 
-  3 

O  CO 


O  -. 
>  cz 
CO  c  o 
p    CD  O 
c    ID  „ 
CO 


o  y- 

Ocg  5 

"  cD 

>>   CO  "O 

cx  'co  g, 

3  co  C" 

CO    CD  CD 


0) 


-^3 


CO  2 
CD  a) 

'  CD 


o  co  2  co  1 — 


3 

CO 

*  ±=  CZ 

v_  CO 

w   CD  -CZ 

o  >« 

m  CD 

ra  <=  "= 

co  OT  2 

•-  Cd  r> 

-cz  o  2 

•a  E 


—    CO  CO 

co  E  "c 

2  -»  CD 

a;  — 
>•  co 

(-    i_  CO 

o  2  - 

u  ^  co 

CO    O  3 


z  ^1 

o  2s| 

ra  >•■= 
o  5  p 

?  *i 

ro  co 
55  i<" 

a)  g 
»  5  e 


CN  CO  N"  LO  CD  r-~ 


Exhibit  9 

The  Home  Depot  -  Bayshore  Boulevard 
Major  Product  Lines  and  Manufacturers 

State  Board  of  Equalization  Category          .                                                       •    •    .  \ 

Department. 

Representative  Products" 

Major  Manufacturers          ■  ' 

Household  and  Home  Furnishings 

Flooring 

Carpet,  vinyl,  laminate,  hardwood, 
tile  flooring,  ceiling  tiles 

Mohawk,  Beaulieu,  Shaw,  Leggit  &  Piatt, 
GFI,  Marazzi,  Classic,  Emser,  Superior, 
Armstrong,  Congoleum,  Halstead,  Bruce, 
Universal,  Pergo 

Kitchen  and  Bath 

Cabinets,  countertops,  vanities, 
bath  fixtures,  appliances 

GE  and  Maytag  appliances,  Kraftmaid 
and  American  Woodmark  cabinets,  RSI, 
American  Standard,  Kohler,  In-Sink- 
Erator 

Lumber  and  Buildinq  Materials 

Lumber 

Dimensional  lumber,  siding,  studs, 
etc, 

NA 

Building  Materials 

Fencing,  roofing,  insulation, 
concrete,  wallboard,  etc.. 

NA 

Windows  and  Doors 

Windows,  interior  and  exterior 
doors,  moulding,  paneling,  glass 

oujiiit_.y,  rAiiuciocii,  rxiiiuin,  ouuuitut 

Millwork,  Viking,  Pella 

Hardware  Stores 

Tools 

Hand  and  power  tools,  fasteners, 
hardware,  door  locks 

Porter  Cable,  Stanley,  DeWalt,  Ryobi, 
Huskey,  Ridgid,  Bosch 

Plumbing  and  Electrical  Supplies 

Plumbing 

Pipes,  faucets,  water  heaters, 

Moen,  Delta,  American  Standard,  Price 
Pfister,  Nutone,  GE,  Rainbird,  Toro 

Electrical 

Fixtures,  bulbs,  wire,  extension 
cords,  ceiling  fans,  portable 
heaters 

Halo,  Belair,  Progress,  Lithonia 

Paint,  Glass  and  Wallpaper 

Paint 

Paint,  caulk,  prep  tools  and 
supplies 

Behr,  Glidden,  Minwax,  Dap,  Zinsser, 
3M,  Rustoleum,  Purdy 

Wallpaper  and  Window 
Coverings 

Window  coverings,  wallpaper, 
contact  paper,  drapery  hardware 

Levelor,  Hunter  Douglas,  Newell/Kirsch, 
Imperial,  Graham  &  Brown 

Farm  and  Garden  Supply  Stores 

Garden 

Plants,  fertilizer,  patio  supplies 

John  Deere,  Toro,  Honda,  Ortho,  Scott, 
Ames,  Corona,  Charbroil,  Weber, 
Sunbeam 

Sources:  The  Home  Depot ;  Sedway  Group. 

J:\word_processing\word  docs\projects\27202  Home  Depot  SF\(Leakage  Categories  Bayshore.xls]Leakage 

CO 

£  in 


TO  o 

m  3 


^  a:  o 

■e  o  <u 

^  EE 
a  o 

>  I 

2  xz 
Cl  a 

E  S 


UJ 


I  E 


o 
£> 

ra 
E 

E 


3    1    (J    J)  E 

.  </>      ol  2  <  >  5 


'•I 

ill 


TO 

CL  O 

—  o 


■o  c  E 

0  o 

cq  =3  jC 

cx  "U  o 

1  2  | 


2  —  3  en       aj  = 


S  Q 


2  5 

•si 

.  E  ._■ 

—  o 

ra  o 

c  'a 

.  E 
c  o 


c  o  X  E  => 


f  E  - 

>  —    (0  <u 

3  -c  £ 

~   O  r- 


ra  ro  ra 
-  cx 
E  ra 


S  -  c 


■a  S  o 


2  ta  2  .  =  -g  ^ 


-  "  3  ra  S  £  5 


5-2 
=  o  ra 

<  2  " 


a>  o 


_  n 


Era  £ 

x  «  3 
ra  C3  .5 


ra  ro 

i=  a.  E 

8gS 

°  ra  Ir 

1=;  -a  ra 


3  £ 


E'  .s  8 

g  O 

^?  ra"  ra 

<  =  oi 

•  a>  ra 

g  0.  Jj 

S  g  .S 


2T§  x" 


c  .£  -a"  ^ 

3  2  =  2 


QJ  TO" 


S  E 


£  Q_  > 

-  ..^  r 

ro  ^  ro  t: 

« t  2  < 

C  «  - 

ra  ra  o  'E 

7;  XI  T-  t 

—  o  j;  £ 

o  -  ,9.  "> 


S  o  J  g  2 


CL  O 

£  ra  5 


1  •= 


f  i 

^  O 


-a  o  5  ^ 


II 


ra  E?  o 


3  E 

o  tz 


1     ?  6  =  3  £  I 


2  ro 


n   9    5.  IX 


</>  E 


ra  ra  ^ 
ro  £  ra 


ra  -u  o 


5u 


E.2 
2  E 


•o  2 

O  ZD 

O  O 

^  8 


5  ro 


■d  go 


E  Z  ^ 
3  -o  ra 

2  E  ro 


I  O  E 


E  O 

3  "O 


>    O  "O 

m  >^  o 
X  Q_  S 


E  c 

=  o 


if! 

I  ra  ra 


2  E 


E  ~ 
o  2 


£  2  >  E 

ro  2  ro  £ 

J3  o  x:  ot 

E  8  =  3 


,_  £  o  JS 
S  ra  o  ^  S- 
'1=  £   <n  <5  "° 


;  45  il  ra  2 
:  3  in  jo  c 


O  o  E 


O  CJ) 


a.  S  Q 

ra  ra 

ro  2  E 

5  S  I 


o  a 

O  CO 


ra  cd  g  ; 

2  ~  o  P. 
21  —  «  x 


TO  O 

m  3 


c  Q 
E  E 


£  5 

11 

i! 


V  -■  <n 


<U    m  -  = 


Z  C  =  <D 

«  «  S  r 

oi  " 

a  j;  n  »  2 

>s  -C  .<= 

(0  CO  ®  ~  m 

E  jj  «i  o  r; 


T3  CO 

1 

E  5 


E  »  2  —  |'  a  | 
2  o 


5  <o 


4>  co  .. 
«  E  E       —  2  " 


I"  S  °>  2  E 
o  5  £  -°  E 

™  x  «  —  ° 


£  „-  y  -o 


E  S 


e  t: 

a,  o 


-°  — 

"D  = 
N  > 

II 

a.  i9 


o  "P.  2 
—  to  co 


<  ™  £:  2 


to  to 
E 


I  P  $ 


§  5.  |  p  2 
u  o  a 


o  -c  >  i  c 


°  ^  =  m 
~  ■  75  m 


is  l —  to  o> 


(0    3  O  c  t= 

I  ?  S  S  o 

CD  CO  ~ 

13  TS  c  .2  g 

co  co  o  !=• 

a.  >  0)  b 


3 

o 


£   u  O 


«  W 


CL  >  CD 


E  I 


fc  o.  o  a 

~  o  o 

=  8"2  "2 

4>  CO    CO  CO 

01  "O   .C  -C 


O  TJ 
2  cc  to 


CD  ^  7= 

t  to  E 

o  - 

a-  S  -! 

a  §  s 


8  s  3  < 

I-  CO  I  z 


.£  4) 
=  E 


,E  3 
o  E 
2  fr 


1  1  | 

2  E  -3 
Sag 

*f  1 


5  2  7 


E  .5  CO 


a.  E  c 
=J  a  o 


III 


01  -  ?-o 
n  2  (a  a) 
>»  a)  -J  t) 

CO    O.     •  (0 

(Z  o  <u  ex 
—  -S  E 


—  Cn  z)  -Q 

£  e  || 

in  o  £  « 

I  S  .§  g 

CD  O 
JZ    ™  — 

—  <u   >  cu 

o  &  »  2 
O    TO    O)  4) 

«  cd  J=  E 

m  2  F 

°  »  "5  § 
n  t  a  o 


o  ©  1 
CD  0- 


flj    o  ^" 


2  E 


>  X  CO  CO  2  CO  CD 


o    -       f-  y 
°  g  ij  o  ro 
S      <  2  S  ? 


p-  g  aj" 


O 


—  °  E  5 


u  < 


E  a 


2  £ 


|  E 
<  < 


jc  o  o 

CO    ot  - 

til, 


c£EP-?=raco-p 


flj    CD  O 


  c-    d  O 


«i  to  cn  co 
o>  «  0)  (a 


O  T=>  CO 
  O  i- 


c  B  -a 

£  c  o  <° 
^  -  o  o 


O  —  -V 
C3J  E  CO 


o  to 


O  CO 


—  ~  E 

5  o  F 

S  =  8 

S.E2 


5  O 

c  «  3 
"  tj  >  a 

'    g    O  =  a, 

cO  <"  c 

;  •§  1  -  q. 

■  §  s  s  g 

5c  co 


"O  to 
CO    o    (J  CO 

o  t  a  tu 


2  E 


f  5 


2  o 


I  s 


2  2 
>-  | 

QJ  CZ 


i=  .9? 
c 

o  == 


|Q 
a, 

S  E 

■o  o 
>- 1 
(=  111 

t  0) 

£■  S 


£  E 
■  t 


CD  CO 

O  2 


=r  co 


til 

«>  o  c 
2  o  ^ 

C  *"  Q 
~    O  0) 

m 

.  £  3 

—    CO  O 


CD 

O    °  C 

°   c  © 


s 


°  «  "O  C 

o  o  *  - 

^.  -  3  o 

c  »    >  3 

cd  n  r  ° 

E  ?! 


0) 


-  3  I  2 

S  ^  " 

j-  I  co  E 

>  c  co 

>  >,  0! 

.-Ho 

c  o  c 

™  QJ    c  "O 


u  Q 


CD  ra 


a.      S  S 

CD  « 

co  5  - 
2  =  g  o 

Slf  l 

. .  u_  —  *o 
S  «,  c  55  2 

U    CD  —    c  v> 
c    O    «    CO  1= 
(=    <U    O  Q_ 

ft  IfS 

<   to  C  <  Q. 


CO 


CD 


co  o  a 

E  §  2  ii 
o       CO  -o 


£-  5 
o  E 


e5 


5  I 
o  a 


CD    S    O)   OJ  V) 

F  u  <o  c  « 

5-E25 
5.  2  o  E  s 

3  — T  *0  — 

w  "5  ^  c 
Q  «  2  »  ^ 

lilt3.. 

to     7  t:  m  CD 

ct    S  e;  b 

™  CJ  Q  O  2 


s0: 


to  xi  n 


8  E 
~  < 


t  ill 

jc  •  S  o 


«  "  o  uj  s, 

s  1 1°| 
I  i:  I S  ? 


CL  C  —  CD 
>*  TD  -E?  C  3 
C  O  "  D,  tj 
O  —    CD    CD  J5 

£  "  fe 
2  e-o  «  -2 


I  S  °  u 

'  I  E  £ 


n 


5  £  IS 

£  2  gl  = 

«;  0)  w  co  < 

o  ^  >>  „-  -r 


^  LL  OT 


I  c   O  C 


***     J-  (O 

c  co 


o    fi  £    S  CD 


J=  _  CO  CD 
CO  =    CL  CD  CD 

E  5  to  £  E 


«j  CD    10  — 

i  s  f  S  ? 

fj    CO      -    o  g 


©  —  o 

£  C  - 
cj  —  OT 


a  «  £ 

qj  D  O 

c  0)  O 

t  Q.  t 

o  to  S 


CL  ~  CO  C 

CO    O.  CO  ZI 

CD    CL  [r  O 

-a  to  53  o 


==  O. 

03  +- 

||| 

£  S  a. 
-SEE 


1X1 


<u  o 
>  I 


E  5 


t  E 
o  o 


e 

n  -' 


a,  §  -o  a> 
S  E  S  f 

S  8  8  | 


2  Z  | 


nt  a>  .*=   Cr>  i_ 


0)  (a 
■~  Q. 

E 


a 
E 


E  o> 

O  £1 


=  S 
E 

—  o 


-  ±=  a> 


o  XI 
o  «n 
5  - 


TO  lU 

5  E  E 

0*  <°  m  s 

if  «  o  j: 

—  ^  ra 

"5  t3  _ 

2°tT| 


E  £ 

3  S  g-g 
o  aj  £  ro 

c  •  x,; 

a)  CO  a)  O 


i  S  a 


2  aj 

£  ±=  a.  E 

S  "  «  2 

-c  o  -°  5 

~  Q- 

3«  :  5 

-a  O  E  <u 


°? 

CO 

E.1 

o 
o 

o 

<  = 

m 

o 

Vikin 

artin 

a)  o 
c  i 

0) 

55  2 

CL 

5 

?  £  I  = 
p  *  s! 


Is 


m  1* 

CZ  S 

O  O 

■=  ¥ 

<L>  cu 

If 

%  d 

0) 


>  s 
s  < 

1 1 


_  £  _ 

3    ™   O  0) 

co  5  <  > 


5  S 
S  g 


T3    J   —  O 


a.  o 


<D  O 

.  -  E  a>  i2 
o        o  > 


c  >  c 
torn 


■o  o 
O  o 


s  r  5.  2 

•S  °  ">  E 

1  <u  p  o 

S  o  *  ~ 


—  c 
>>  CO 

c 

s 

■a  o 
ro  c 
E  5 


■go" 
-  £  f  H 


c  > 


O  -  3  a.  E 


J  2  E  « 

=  y  o  n 

ra  .2  o  ^ 

H  3  S 


9      c  2 


sl  | 

a  a  13 


-2.  n  «  u 

o  <u 

*-  o  °>  jS 

o  qj 

cu  ro  i_ 

o  o  o 

CD  =  O 

CD  2  ~ 


E  <u  o  co  £  ca  ■£ 


03  o 
O)  o 

2  Q 

CO  c_ 


1° 

a.  a 
§  o 


E 


£  3 

—  TD 

d)  ca 


E  ° 

1 1 

8§ 


E  I 
■?  E 


T3  CO 


E  £ 


EO 


i  O  T3 
S  J  3 

ra  >«  o 
IDS 


§  S 


-  S  -g 
lis 

j   m  J) 


■E  o 

CD  CD 


■*    C  * 


e  r 


o  u  E 

~  ca  °  a  V 

"D         0)  > 

2  £  o  5 

S  o»  °  S 

£  ^  ca 

_   0)   s   C  o 

o  c  ~  cu  -zz 

O  5  r  -Q 
.Sd    o    CO  •  = 

"  ^   &  ffl  c 

c  o 

^  o  « 


t  CD 


C  CO 

o  cn 

H  CD 

e  y 

8  E 

CO  (D 

a  £  P 

^'S  E 
ca  —  o 
5  £  I 


I  3 

f  2 


m  3 


<  E 
I  I 

1  I 

i  ?1 


EXHIBIT  11 

TAXABLE  SALES 

CHICO,  CALIFORNIA 

1995-2000 

IN  CONSTANT  2000  DOLLARS  (1) 

Buildinq  Materials 

Home  Furnishings 

Year 

Outlets  Sales 

Outlets 

Sales 

1995 

38  $84,245,476 

60 

$42,824,616 

1996 

34  $80,147,250 

54 

$43,399,438 

1997 

34  $85,663,530 

65 

$42,766,841 

1998  (2) 

41  $93,067,069 

69 

$43,771,824 

1999 

44  $112,363,879 

71 

$51,949,425 

2000 

45  $112,840,000 

81 

$51,194,000 

Notes: 

(1)  Current  dollars  converted  to  constant  2000  dollars  pursuant  to  the  Bay  Area  CPI 

for  all  urban  consumers. 

(2)  Store  opened  August  1998. 

Sources:  U.S.  Department  of  Labor,  Bureau  of  Labor  Statistics;  California  State 

Board  of  Equalization;  and  Sedway  Group. 

J:\word_processing\word_docs\projects\27202  Home  Depot  SF\[Sales  Tax  Chico  Store. xlsJChico  -  CPI[SB] 

505  Montgomery  Street,  6th  Floor 
San  Francisco,  CA  941 1 1 

415.781.8900 
Fax  415.781.8118 

355  South  Grand  Avenue,  Suite  1200 
Los  Angeles,  CA  90071 

213.613.3750 
Fax  213.613.3780 

1420  Fifth  Avenue,  Suite  1700 
Seattle,  WA  98101 

206.526.3254 
Fax  206.292.6033 


A.  Shimko 
Exhibit  D 


Ft.  Myers,  FL 
News- Press 

ct  Myirs 

Monday  0  89,818 

JUL  16,  22%\ 

ii  ii it  r  i !i i  mi 

Newcomer  welcome 

Home  Depot's  impending  '\ 
move  to  Bonita  Springs  J 
across  Bonita  Beach  Road 
from  Flamingo  Island  Flea 
Market  is  great  news  for  the 
city  of  Bonita  Springs!  As 
well  planned  growth  occurs 
in  Boruta  Springs,  residents 
who  often  need  to  venture 
outside  the  Bonita  area  to 
shop  will  stay  in  Bonita  and 
this  community  will  flour- 
ish. 

The  management,  staff  ; 
3nd     200     vendors     of  . 
Flamingo  Island  welcome 
Home  Depot  to  the  neigh- 
borhood! 

GENE  VACCARO 
General  Manager 
Flamingo  Island  Flea 
Market 
Bonita  Springs 


I 


I 

I 


Flush 


Asbury  Part,  HJ 
Preu 


Monmouth 
Mil  Am 


Sunday 


SUN  223,239 


APR  18.  1993 

ii  1 1!  mi  ii  ii  mi  i  mi  i  mi  i  in  i  in 

r  b  sscu_r_rjJL21 

£  3d 


Like  any  other  business  -tliaV 
deaE  with  the  home  and  home  lmK 
pToTement  products,  Hutchinson^ 
Plumbing  Supply  has  had  to  cope- 
with  the  arrival  opthe  potent  Home 
D|pot  chain  in  New  Jersey.  V-\;~ 

■in-  Hutchinson's  vicinity,  there 
af»'1lome  Depots  in  Hazlet,  Old. 
Bridge  and  Woodbridge.  ."••^•/^ 

'J' With  the  emergence  of  Home 
Dfpat,  wejiad "tci  readjust,  S£mje£| 
OOTfthinking.  an5  -wha^vwe.^vBT^ 
dofesg,  .'to';,  pleased' fhat  custome&p 
SEraag  said.  "We  have  a  pretry^u^ 
scal$  customer  base,  though."  '"..>••; 

-Home  Depot  has  forced  Hutchin- 
sorj^fo  be  more  price-conscious,  to 
ni^ke  sure  their  prices  are  competi- 
tiw^when  they  are  selling  similar 
items,  she  added.  [ 

*'iAt  fust  we  thought  it  would  hurt 
o2fc2msiness,  it  would  take  away  a 
lcjEEf  the  bread  and  butter,',':  Strang*^ 
s^jRG  "But  what  it  really  did  was 
htflp^our  business,  because  people 
could  see  (Hutchinson)  quality."- .  ~ 

^Another  advantage  Hutchinson 
Plumbing  Supply  has  is  that  some 
"employees  have  been  with  the  com- 
pany 20  years  or  more,  she  said. 
These  veterans  have  developed  ex- 
pertise and  relationships  with  cus: 
tomers,  plumbers  and  contractors. ' 

>The  company  plans  to  renovate 
aiicfcexpand  the  showroom  by  an- 
ofjier  1,000  square  feet  by  the  end  of 
this^year  and  add  a  5,000-square -Coot 
warehouse.  Hutchinson  and  Strang 
also  want  to  add  another  location 
within  two  years. 

;"As  you  go  through  life,  I  feel  you 
must  grow  and  not  stay  the  same," 
Hutchinson  said.  "My  great  grand- 
faIH£r  did,  my  father  grew  from  my 
grandfather.  It  was  really  my  fa- 
ther's idea  to  build  the  showroom."  ■ 

She  and  her  sister  simply  want  to 
make  their  contribution  to  the  tra- 
dition, she  said. 


FftfmPage  B3 


J*,- 


pCQ^icts  by  rail.  \ 

T^tchinson  and  StrangVfai 
Warren  E.  Hutchinson,  now  s 
retired,  took  over  in  1973.  » - 

;ffutchinson  joined  the  corm; 
liyears  ago.  She  had  worked  a 
administrative  assistant  for  cor 
attcms  in  New  York.  Strang^wqj 
astral  apparel  buyer  fcr  V<$| 
bent  store  chain  before  she"?Rj 
theiompany  12  years  ago.  .^/vt^ 

.  1   -  -V      i:      ."  V.,*?'f?p.V 

-  Neither  grew  ;up  planning 
efiteT  the  family  business.  Bui 
tlte^Jocus  of  the  Ibusiness  jihi 
hrore  toward  retail  service  lo  t 
tomers,  instead  qf  just  vwhole: 
selling  to  plumbers  and  contract, 
it  made  sens^  for  .them  to -ex 
aboard,  Hutchinson  said.-,  tgj? 

;  JJgjng  women  in  a  male-do 
nated  business  like  plumbing  pb 
a"  challenge  ^whenf  they  #."^d 
business.  '  p<;  ":.\ 

;  '"Some  plumbers  wouldn't  tali 
me,"  Hutchinson  recalled.  "I  w6' 
answer  the  phone  and  say  'Cai 
help  you?'  and  they'd  say:  'No,  } 
don't  know  anything,  you're 
woman.  Give  me  one  of  the  guys.' 

'-  .Strang  said  she  encountered  t 
same  attitude  sometimes.  "To  tl 
oay;  there  are  still  a  few  that  s 
want  to  talk  to  a  man,"'  she  said. 

•  "I  had  to  get  tough  really,  rea 
fast,"  Hutchinson  said.  "And  a  lot 
people  didn't  like  that  either.  I  h 
to  make  my  case  that  I  had  certa 
responsibilities,  and  I  was  going 
run  this  business.  I  wasnt  jv 
making  the  coffee." 

The  best  answer  to  such  attitud 
was  to  go  into  the  warehouse  ai 
learn  the  products  and  the  busine 
thoroughly,  the  sisters  said.  Th> 
have  also  attended  plumbing  inch 
try  seminars. 


>»-»-»'-«-». 
0)0  0 

a  a,  -  £ 

"S  s 


°  8  /5  5  : 


O.    -       i»  «J  o  s  c  >>  _ 

r  g    ^  .o  ,„  ^  S  -5  z 


<s> 

CD 
OJ 


OJ 

DC 
<E 
IZ 


o  x>  ^  -a 

— i  £  C 

X  w  3 
<D  0»  O  >>"0 

to  XI   00   O  CO 


o 

X! 

X 

s 

C 


(  Hyann[s,.MA 
Cap8iCod  Times 

Be.*ni!Bb!i 
Mil  Arts 

Monday  0  53  392 

JUL   16.  2301 

II  I!  II  I  I II  I  Ml  I 

N29G4 


mm 


PRE n -  CLIPPI  \CS 


Give  us  discount  stores 
and  keep  your  trinkets 

In  a  July  8  letter,  a  small-bjjsiness 
owner  writes  that  she  doesn't 
want  Home  Depot  to  move  into  the 
vacant  Bradlees  building  because 
Route  28  is  already  a  mess  from 
one  end  to  the  other. Yet  she  states 
tourists  won't  come  if  the  traffic 
situation  doesn't  improve. 

Somehow  I  was  always  able  to 
link  promoting  tourism  to  in- 
creased traffic,  and  the  last  I  knew 
there  was  a  chamber  of  commerce 
feverishly  working  to  make  Cape 
Cod  into  a  four-season  destination. 

Never  content  with  what  they 
have,  these  organizations  seek  to 
promote  this  once-beautiful  place 
to  death. 

I  would  like  to  see  a  retail  store 
Like  Home  Depot  or  BJ's  located 
here,  where  the  locals  might  get  a 
price  break  on  essential  items  in- 
stead of  any  more  tounsty-trin- 
kety-oriented  businesses  catering 
to  seasonal  visitors. The  gridlock 
we  are  already  starting  to  suffer 
wasn't  caused  by "big-box"stores, 
because  we  don't  have  any  down 
here.  And  a  large  vacant  store 
would  be  ideal  for  a  new  tenant 
like  Home  Depot,  as  it  wouldn't 
require  new  construction. 

Let's  do  something  here  for  the 
benefit  of  the  local  consumers  for 
a  change. 

RONALD  B.  HELD 

East  Sandwich 


<Thicago  (Jribunc 


BUSINESS 


SU  N  DAY 


JULY  7  2002 


Seigle's  constructs 
new  success  model 


Photo  for  the  Tribune  by  Anthony  Robert  La  Penna 

President  Mark  Seigle  (left)  and  Chairman  Harry  Seigle  are 
brothers  and  co-owners  of  Seigle's  Building  Centers,  which 
has  survived  and  thrived  amid  an  onslaught  of  competition. 


Real  estate,  focus 
shift  aid  building 
supply  center 

By  Susan  Chandler 

Tribune  staff  reporter 

The  future  looked  pretty- 
bleak  for  Seigle's  Building 
Centers  a  decade  ago  when 
price-slashing  rivals  Home 
Depot  and  Menards  rolled  into 
the  Chicago  market. 

Seigle's,  an  old-line,  family- 
owned  building  products 
chain,  was  no  match  for  Home 
Depot's  sprawling  stores  and 
low  prices  or  Menards'  aggres- 
sive advertising.  Indeed,  Sei- 
gle's rival  Handy  Andy  and  a 
bevy  of  small  hardware  store 
owners  eventually  threw  in 
the  towel  and  closed  up  shop. 

Rather  than  becoming  an- 
other victim,  Seigle's  is  thriv- 
ing. Although  it  hasn't  been 
an  easy  transition,  the  compa- 
ny retooled  its  traditional 
business  and  jumped  into  an- 
other that  is  far  from  the  lum- 
beryard— real  estate  develop- 
ment. 

"When  people  say,  'What  im- 
pact has  Home  Depot  had  on 
Seigle's0'  I  tell  them  it  was  the 
best  thing  that  ever  happened 

A 


to  us,"  said  Harry  Seigle,  whc 
co-owns  the  Elgin-based  com 
pany  with  his  brother  Mark. 
"We  really  re-engineered  oux 
operation.  It  not  only  saved 
our  business,  it  helped  us 
prosper." 

The  numbers  don't  lie.  De- 
spite the  recession,  2001  was  a 
record  year  for  Seigle's,  which 
racked  up  $215  million  in  sales 
of  building  supplies,  up  10  per- 
cent from  2000. 

Credit  the  nation's  home 
budding  boom,  and  Seigle's 
decision  to  downplay  its  cor. 
sumer  business,  which  once 
contributed  50  percent  of 
sales,  and  focus  on  supplying 
large-scale  home  builders 
such  as  Pulte  Homes. 

Pulte  recently  received  ap- 
proval to  build  a  subdivision 
of  more  than  1.000  homes  in 
Bolingbrook.  and  that  means 
big  demand  for  the  doors,  win- 
dows and  roof  trusses  thatSei 
gle's  manufactures  i_n  facul- 
ties around  the  Chicago  area. 

By  concentrating  on  a  hand- 
ful of  large  buyers  rather  than 
the  do-it-yourself  market.  Sei- 
gle's has  been  largely  able  tc 
stayoutofthe  way  of  Home  De 
pot  and  Menards.  Those  mud- 
larger  chains  cater  mostly  to 
home  owners  and  contractor; 

PLEASE  SEE  SEIGLE'S,  P~~E  2 


SEIGLE'S: 

Catering  to 

professional 

builders 

CONTINUED    FP.CM  PAGE  1 

who  specialize  in  remodeling 
projccis.  a  more  fickle,  price- 
nrienied  crowd  (hat  requires 
substantial  marketing  dollars 
to  reach 

Emblematic  ofthenewonen 
lation:  Sejgle's  changed  its  slo 
gan  from  "Your  Home  Team"  to 
"The  Professional's  Choice"  in 
1995  The  company  now  operaies 
four  centers  geared  toward 
builders,  two  retail  showrooms 
and  an  on t let  store  in  the  Chica- 
go area. 

Although  the  shift  to  serving 
home  builders  appears  presci 
em  now.  Seigle  is  humble 
enough  to  acknowledge  that 
timing  had  a  lot  to  do  with  the 
strategy's  success. 

"There's  an  old  saying  Don't 
ever  confuse  intelligence  with  a 
hull  m.'irkpt."  Senile  said 
"We've  had  a  bull  market  Home 
building  has  been  very  strong 
for  the  past  six  or  seven  years." 

Real  estate's  development 

But  Seigle  doesn  t  need  to  be 
modest  about  his  company's 
successful  foray  into  real  estate 
development,  even  though  it 
wasn't  exactly  his  idea  in  the 
first  place 

Back  in  1990,  Seigle's  bought 
the  Anzalone  Building  Center. 


winch  w.im  sitting  "u  .i  .i ',  ,ii  1 1- 
parcel  at  the  corner  of  Nor;h 
and  Clybourn  Avenues  in  Lin 
coin  Park,  and  changed  its  name 
to  Seigle  s  It  was  a  scruffy  cor 
ner  where  few  local  residents 
ventured  on  foot,  but  one  to 
which  many  were  happy  to 
drive  when  they  were  remodel 
ing  a  kitcheji  or  bathroom 

Seigle  didn't  know  it.  but  the 
Clybourn  industrial  corridor 
was  on  the  verge  of  becoming 
one  of  the  hottest  retail  zones  in 
the  city 

"Id  rather  be  lucky  Ihnn 
smart  any  day."  Seigle  chuckles 

!n  the  mid  1990s.  Cordon  Se- 
gal, owner  of  housewares  enipo -  • 
rium  Crate  &  Barrel,  saw  the 
possibilities  and  approached 
the  Seigle  brothers  about  creat- 
ing a  shopping  center  of  home- 
related  retailers  on  their  prop- 
erty. 

Accounts  differ  about  wheth- 
er Segal  had  the  opportunity  to 
buy  the  land  outright,  but  the 
outcome  isn't  in  question.  Sei- 
gle's became  Crate  &  Barrel's 
landlord 

Not  owning  ihe  property  may 
be  one  of  the  few  regrets  that  re- 
tail legend  Segal  has. 

"Now.  looking  back,  he  realiz 
cs  ii  was  an  error  in  judgment." 
said  Crate  &  barrel  spokes 
woman  Bene  Kahn. 

Holding  on  to  the  real  estate 
turned  out  to  be  a  boon  for  the 
Seigle  brothers  Crate  &  Barrel 
and  the  Container  Store  likely 
pay  in  the  neighborhood  of  $1 
million  a  year  in  rent,  real  es 
tale  sources  estimate. 

Seigle  declines  to  say  how 
much  money  his  company  has 
made  from  the  development,  al- 
though he  acknowledges  it  gen- 
erates a  "significant"  amount  of 
revenue. 

"In  the  '90s.  you  wouldn't 
walk  near  the  intersection  be- 
cause it  was  sodilapidated  Now 
you  can  t  walk  there  because  it's 
so  crowded."  Seigle  said. 

While  Crate  &  Barrel  was  in 
the  process  of  building  its  lime- 
stone flagship  where  Seigle's 
had  once  been,  a  new  smaller 
Seigle'sspeciaJLZingonly  incab- 
inetry  took  shape  next  door  The 
Container  Store,  a  hot  retail 
chain  from  Dallas,  decided  to  lo- 
cate on  another  corner  of  the 
parcel,  also  becoming  a  tenant 
of  Seigle's. 

Land  of  Nod's  new  landlord 

Now  Seigle's  is  on  the  move 
again  By  the  middle  of  next 
year,  the  space  that  Seigle's  cur- 
renlly  occupies  will  be  home  to" 
a  Land  of  Nod  store,  an  upscale 
children's  furniture  and  acces- 
sories catalog  company  in 
Wheeling  in  which  Cralc  &  Bar 
rel  has  taken  a  50  percent  stake. 

Seigle's  is  moving  nearby  to 
1617  21  N.  Clybourn  Ave  where 
H  will  build  a  smaller  version  of 
its  cabinet  store  at  street  level 
with  four  residences  above  lo 
blend  in  w  ith  the  neighborhood 
The  new  structure  will  echo 


vime  "I  (.i  ale  &  li.u  i  ■  ■!  s  .n  • 
tcclur.il  features,  including 
limestone  and  metallic  from 
"Wo  think  wc  can  opei 
more  efficiently  in  a  sm,tl 
space  than  the  10.000  square  I- 
we  currently  occupy."  Sci 
said  "Boih  as  real  estate  riev 
opers  and  owners,  it  made  i 
most  business  sense  to  aco- 
moilate  Lmd  of  Nod " 

A  natural  transformation 

Seigle's  transformation  fir. 
building  supply  retailer  tu 
veloper  may  seem  unusual  I 
it's  not  really,  according 
Bruce    Kaplan  president 
Northern  Realty  Croup  Ltd 
Chicago  retail  real  estate  h 
kerage 

"These  companies  are  bu\  i 
on  I  he  periphery  of  esiablisl 
core  areas  That's  where  II 
can  afford  to  be."  Kaplan  sa 
"NpxI  thing  you  know,  civih 
tion  overruns  them  They  cm 


In  the  '90s,  ijoii 
(couldn't  walk  near 
the  intersection  because 
it  was  sn  dilapidated. 
AW'  you  can't  icalk 
there  because  it's  so 
crowded. '  ..  . 

—  Hairy  Se>gle  chairman. 
Seigle's  Building  Onien 


out  there  and  move  to  the  next 
edge  on  Ihe  path  of  progress." 

In  fact,  one  of  the  country's 
largest  developers  got  its  start 
in  much  Ihe  same  manner  Back 
in  the  1920s.  Forest  City  Enter 
prises  in  Cleveland  supplied 
lumber  lo  Polish  immigrants 
who  were  building  garages  for 
the  growing  number  of  people 
who  owned  cars  In  the  1130s. 
the  company  began  to  buy  and 
sell  large  amounts  of  land  to  de- 
velopers, and  after  World  War  II. 
it  became  a  developer  itself. 

Today.  Forest  City  is  a  J-)  5  bil- 
lion firm  traded  on  the  New 
York  Slock  Exchange  that  devel- 
ops commercial  and  residential 
real  estate  around  the  country 
In  addition  to  renovating  Times 
Square,  it  currently  is  involved 
in  building  a  new  headquarters 
for  the  New  York  Times  and  re- 
developing a  7  5  square  mile 
parcel  of  land  thai  was  formerly 
Denver's  Stapleton  Airporl. 

Seigle's  has  nothing  so  gran- 
diose in  mind.  The  company  has 
assembled  a  25  acre  parcel  at 
955  977  W  Cermak  Rd  in  Chica- 
go's Pilsen  neighborhood  Cur 
tently.  a  Seigle's  lumberyard 
and  window  distribution  center 
occupy  6  acres,  but  the  rest  of 
ihe  land  is  being  marketed  as  an 
industrial  park  called  "South 
R iver  Park." 

In  Elgin.  Seigle's  is  currently 
negotiating  to  move  a  cabinet 
distribution  facility  to  a  much 
larger  local  ion  in  the  Fox  Valley 
When  that  happens.  Seigle's  is 
likely  lo  begin  developing  its  El 
gin  site  for  other  tenants 

For  now.  Harry  Seigle  isn't  in 
lerested  in  developing  real  es 
:;«!«!  beyond  the  company's  II 
current  sites  in  Northern  Illi- 
nois. And  with  both  the  build 
uig  supply  and  development 
businesses  performing  well  ho 
doesn't  have  to  bo 

Wc  find  if  wc  pick  Ihe  right 
localion.  the  highest  and  txM 
use  of  ihe  land  isn'l  necessarily 
i  lumberyard."  Seigle  said 


Q  c_» 


<u  a — 


CO 

CD  _ 

<£> 

(\J 


OJ 

at 
<r 


GO 

m 
<s> 
m 


E3 


S  c 

o 

O)  N 


_  fe £  "tl 

o>  -C  o  °  a)  cj 

£  £ o  e 


is* 


O- en  C  C  a  o 

-j.  *3  a>  o  x  i-ri 
«  >  a.  £  a- 


"  h  « 3  £  o  « 


X 

E- 


C-TD 

a>  -2 
o  o 
c  co 
o  c 

U  4> 


5  c 

si 

2  c 

e * 

o 

X     .52  Ji*  t-  <u  co  C 

■Zi  x  ™  w 
w  X 


w  oS  5  "  « 
*S  c     o  w>x 

£  o.  °     E  03 

D.  E  — <  3  w  — 
cn  S  OJ  o  ©• 

o  «  ' 


*-* 
>  q  o 
c  -3 

si 
•°  x  •— 

c  1/1  o> 
«  >>  c 

O  Qj  <D 


05 

o 


2o 


2  &« 


xl  *.S 


-  -  ^  °  « 

-q  g  <u  £:  «-g  >,^5  jd 

T3  .    u  I,  3  >  73  ^ 

<u  o>     a)  o  c 


5  S 

—  E      X      W  _e  c° 


4)  HfiC 

--3  S  °  ^  c 
^5  Sfll^?-^ 


>~  c  w  c: 


o 

a,  S      5  xi  H  "  Jjc  = 


c 

e 

I 
U 

- 

u 


<s> 
<s> 

CO 


<s> 
<s> 

CM 


E3 
E3 


C>0  v5  t3  nj  <u 
g   CX.  T3v2 

2  5  3 

ri  o 
o  o  «  w 
Ci-cQ  .tr;  cT 

<u  ■  a-p 

>>rl>  o  E  m 


^  aj  x: 


c  —  _ 
v  a>  ^3  ' 


O  c 


z 
o 

_J 

CO 

< 

>  ~ 

<  5 

<r  _ 


2 


o 

^0 


»  >N 

O 


r.1  "a  -_>  —  — 


•     OJ   —  w 
•st   ~-  aj 

-5  -  P 

ome 
The 
tore, 
time 
into 
that 

issed 
im- 

c  o  = 

3  j=  2 

-«=      M  u  J  .3       *3  i) 

=  ^252,     "  B 

■a  5  -  5  " 

£  °  is  >  2  a  | 

I  o  1^? 

o 

year,  a 
retailer 
opened 
one  kno 
lany  wo 
argest  n 

would 
that  thi 

*  c  _  5  > 

p  c  o  s  E  «,      g  rt 

body 
sions  ( 
,i  2001' 
(  time 
Il  in  iht 

>     -0  ^  0  ^-o5 
J  0  g  ^5  J  ° 
u.  a.  -  ~  -     y  <  0 

•J     *>    _     "3  — 

—    j  —  —  X 

'    p0.s_2«S  g 

—  )  w  "S  0  J-1 

r 


Gaithersburg.  MD 
GerrnanlowTi  Gazelle 

Washington  DC 
Mat  Ar s a 

Wadnosday  W  21,441 

JAN  3.  20ei 

11  till  I  llll  I  llll  I  111  I  llll 'ill  ill 

F^_-__,  N62307 

EECQHQ 


I  P    F.  S  S  C  LIPP1NGS 


White  Plains.  NY 
Central  Journal  News 

Niw  YorH  Clt) 
Mil  Arja 

Tuesday  D  30.343 

NGV  20,  2068 

;!  Ill,  III  I  III  II I  nil:  ill:  111! 
D1CQHE3  PRESS  CLIPPINGS 

(Past  fears  prove 
to  be  exaggerated 

With  all  the  invectives  being  hurled  at 
the  proposal  for  an  IKEA  store  in  New 
Rochelle,  I  would  like  to  submit  the  fol- 
lowing facts: 

■  When  Home  Depot  was  proposed 
for  New  RocTieUe,  the  people  in  Pelham 
were  up  in  arms  about  the  traffic  prob- 
lem of  gargantuan  proportions  it  would 
create.  Home  Depot  is  there  and,  10  and 
be"fiold,  traffic  is  still  moving  as  before. 

■  For  countless  years,  there  were  ar- 
ticles in  the  newspaper  about  the  pro- 
posed Stew  Leonard's  in  Yonkers.  That 
was  an  odyssey  that  endured  for  seem- 
ingly endless  years.  The  stores  are  there  ! 
and  traffic  accommodations  were  made,  i 
and  Yonkers  is  still  oh  the  map. 

As  far  as  all  the  money  people  will  lose  i 
on  the  value  of  their  houses,  why  don't 
the  pundits  check  with  the  homeowners  . 
down  Weyman  Avenue  from  Home  De- 
pot and  see  how  they  were  affected.  I  , 
think  not  at  all.  ■ 

Obviously,  any  people  being  dis- 
placed should  be  well  compensated  for 
their  property  and  their  trouble. 

There  are  always  people  who  want 
things  to  stay  exactly  as  they  are.  Things 
go  forward  or  backward,  nothing  in  be- 
tween. 

The  area  in  question  is  not  exactly  the 
garden  spot  of  New  Rochelle. 


Harold  Greenberg 
Tarrytown 


A 


_J 


Hardware  with  a  heart 


I  wish  to  comment  on  how  Home 
Depot  serves  the  community.  On  Dec. 
21, 1  went  to  the  home  of  a  Meals  on 
Wheels  recipient  He  was  wearing  a 
blanket  around  his  shoulders  and  had 
no  heat  in  his  house.  He  is  nearly  80 
and  has  very  little. 

When  I  left  him,  I  went  to  the  Ger- 


mantown  Home  Depot  I  told  a 
woman  manager  about  him.  With  no 
further  discussion  or  questions,  she 
left  me  and  returned  with  a  heater.  I 
was  very  impressed  and  wish  to  ac- 
knowledge their  willing  involvement 

Nancy  Ide,  Germantown 


East  Brunswick,  NJ 
Home  News  Tribune 


T 


Monday 


V'dd  s s e i 
Wat  Area 


JUN  26,  2 


0  80,000 


I  I  III  Hi  III  I  llll  I  Hit  ill  IH II II!  Hi 

N3828 


OBOE), 


jHome  Depot  helps 
'spruce  up  street 

By  TED  SERRILL 

STAFF  WRITER 

MILLTOWN  —  The  Milltown  Gar- 
den Club  intends  to  plant  flowers  in 
front  of  the  borough  rescue  squad 
building  on  South  Main  Street  with 
a  little  help  from  Home  Depot. 

Home  Depot  stores  in  the  bor- 
ough and  Edison  donated  60 
•10-pound  bags  of  top  soil  for  the 
project,  which  is  expected  to  add 
more  color  to  Main  Street. 

Garden  Club  President  Janice 
Scelsa  said  members  appreciate  the 
donation.  She  said  the  top  soil  was 
in  torn  bags,  but  the  club  realizes  it 
could  still  have  been  sold  by  Home 
Depot  at  reduced  prices. 

The  bags  of  soil  lie  on  the  site  of 
the  planned  garden.  Last  year, 
squad  members  attempted  to  plant 
a  small  garden  there,  but  it  didn't 
work  out. 

"Geese  ate  the  flowers,"  said 
squad  treasurer  Michael  Smith. 

The  Garden  Club  is  expected  to 
know  how  to  keep  Canada  geese 
away. 

Most  of  the  flowers  to  be  planted 
will  come  from  club  members'  own 
home  gardens,  said  Scelsa.  And 
contributions  will  be  &>ught,  she 

said. 


< 


1 

E 
v 

k! 

Q 


o 
z 

3 


2' 
D  1 

X> 


:  o-  s 
I  =  c 
'-o 
1  c  £ 

:  <  c 


£ 

t=  q  6     c  -  u  ^  2 


u  oj 


_  £      E  co 

o  2  i* 


c 

to  o 

Q 


:  oj  >, 

'  £  c 

o  w  — i 

'  -2  F  — 
:  HZ  c  re 

w 

ro  -E  £ 

a'5 1 

-  c 


2  K  c  <^ 

C   oo   qj  3  . 

O  —  u  <-> 

X  -o*  c  so' 

o  «.SPE 

(/>    l/>  > 

J  vo  -a  co 
u  £  _ 
e 


1/5 


>-  —  -  —     C     Q )  C" 

5  £  2  =  °  - 
o  ~  - . ^  "5)  § 

■°  O  £ 

r-  —    U    -  C- 

E:    OJ    OJ     ^0    OJ  - 

<->        O   DO  =  -SJ  -C 

—     U      OJ     —  W 

*  o  «  _=  c  r-  £ 
2  oj  O-      u  "  u 
D&2 


III- 

1)  c  — 


.3:  "a 
do  - 
.E  o 

=  2 


61 S 


=  .£  u 

u  *..« 

o  O  O 
cx  t; 

L0  vt  Q. 


a. " 

E  I 
o  £ 


E^ 


2 

oj  re 

</>  x: 


do  zt 


-c-5  o 


i| 

oj2: 
c  c 

o 


—   w,   , 

00  -—    i-  u 

Sr,  2  £  re 

oj  — 

1  ^  s 

Sxi  -  o 
"=  c  g  -j 

3  v  g-| 

ro  oj  o 

re- 
C  O  jS  re 

^  S  «  c 
5  2  o 

_,     (/}  . 

—       T3  — 

'-     oj  O  -  — 

UO  Q.i> 


C  "  re  .bi  oo 
u  2  C  —  _ 

c     £  x>  ro 

OJ  -  -rj 

i  S.22^  s 

1/5  Z  zz°°  ro 


< 


a:  - 


(Ll  O 

_  >^ 
—-  re 
>  T3 

9  3 


Q  E   re  "E 


re  oj 


-I 


°2 


—  x: 


<-    <U    &  <J~, 

5l  .=  _  uj 
E  £  S  <l» 


re  —  a. 


h  o 

A  «  1 

^  E 

: 

-  re  °c 

,-o  - 

■  I-  >> 

3  re 


O  "3 
3 

o 


m 

(✓5  _^ 
,  o 

M 

°-o' 

O  o 

OJ 

OJ  L= 

■a  u,  ■ 

o.2- 
B.-E 


—  c 
c  O 
re  — 


|!  £  J 
;  o  u 

«  «  52 

—    U  DO 

«  g  c 

Eg-^i 

2 

QD  DO  OJ 

o_      u  a 

r-i  u 

l^3xi) 

:  doW  oj  c 

I*    >  T3  _U 

,  u  >  re 

—  H  oj  oj 
.  re  i     ,  ^- 


u  -  u 

E:5< 

>-  C1  oj 


reH 


.    2  a. 

C   vo  • — 

5  a  u 
z  ^ 
a  oj 

•o  ^£ 

o  2 
-°  I- 

0J   

vo-5'3 


E  E 

g  o 

Eo'-E; 
o  i5 

a.  c 

3 

«■§ 
"Si 


■°  2 

O  CL 

OJ 

_Q 

—  u '. 

°  E 
^  5 


OJ  o*  | 
re 

3  - 


re 


i-  o  5 

W   re  > 

OJ  (*  OJ 

S  o  E 

£  2 

oj  [  r*  3 


O  DO 


oo 


aj  D 
3  J=  , 
DO- 
C8  T3  1 
«  C 

J  re 


CO  -3  .  ^ 

in  O  « 
—  o  X) 

«  c 


Hi's 

2;  E  *•  <n  ■ 

_2  O  ^  re 
^3  ore 

Si! 

-  H-t- 
g.-gE 

lis! 

Eu-  re  « 
u  QJ 

■  —  i— 

c|=  2 


.E-5 


--n  °- 
c  i2 
re  re  O  oj 


E  E 
oj  2 

u.  DO 
D.  C 

.§i2 

3 

OJ  jo 

| -a 


p  22  j>  ; 

i 

"  c  £  i 

O    Q.  | 

re  to  • 

c  o 
j=  n  —  , 

O  W3 

S  Ore 
a>  •— 

_  2  5 

Q.  O  > 

6/5 


.x  re 
T  -o 

OJ 


J5=^ 
'  ^  o 

So1" 


O  °T3 


oj  _ 

DO  OJ 

ra  SI 

£  w  P 

nl  u  5 

>  '3  .2 

■o  E  — 

ro  —  ~ 


O  re 


13  5  >  „c 


re  . 

o  £^ 

■  e  ^2  « 
«  5  w 

E 


T3 


oj  re       —  • 


3 

x; 


o  -o 

E  '« 

o  J? 
°  c 

«i  OJ 


_  OJ 
-  SI 


°  o  i 

f:   "X  O 


y>  o)  y- 
OJ  _£  -a 

—   DO  ^ 

3  c  3 

X)  ^  w 

"  -§  u  ' 
-■o-S 
2-22  do 
re  co  c 
w  do  -  ; 


2  re 
CL 

^O 


o 

CL, 


to  OJ 

o  £  >  > 

°  °  J2  re 

0  =  U  «  | 
to  re  H 

_c  oj  ci: 

i:r  -  "J  w 

1  1 3  .if  | 


n  oj-     -  .E 

re        oj  t/5 

'  2 


—    r3  "X    'r~i  C 


D- 

HJ 

3  ° 

w  w  O 

w    °  W  0) 

LO  .   OJ 

t/>  o  re  ~ 

E  oj  -  > 

•SI    OJ  I-  >-* 

3   i-  O 


—  OJ  T3   

—  0-"0  o 
^  U   C  w 

$  Q  J2  re 


if  | 
J| 

OJ  -> 
=  OJ 

■si 

O  CO 
°o  ^ 

3-.  OJ 
Jl"  DO 

re  c 


E  = 

i_  O 
ll 

S-S 

E  o 


■  -o  j:  oj 
£  oj  —  c 

o  w  2  o 

U    O  >s 

,o 


oj  as 
m  on 


OJ 


■-  o  .22,  ro  H 

O  oo  -J 


I-  OJ 

i2  ^ 

-re  ;  "O 


O  £ 


:  2  S  j=  2  E 

DO  O  C 

>  §i2  ? 

DO-2  X)  £ 


o  ro 
£  o 

OJ  3 
UJ 


O  T3 
C  W 

2"> 

D.  aj 
oj  -a 

Q  OJ 


.22  £ 
--  o 
>X 

ro 


2^  S 
D->  oj 


Q  E  3 
oj  td 

t-o  o 

°    U  OJ 

X  sz  X> 


-  .2 
oj  zzz 


*      >     OJ  OJ 

^2  E2  £ 
ro  0^ 

C    ^  DO-^ 

2-°  =  ^ 

to        C  c  • 

—  ,oj  re 

£  £  c  £ 
2    °  Z 

D-O  OJ  <0 

re  S  2  op. 
u  .E 


Ext  1 

£  2  ro 

"  15  oo 
oo  c 

HI 

ro  Ej  ro 


£  2  S  o 


O  - 


O  DO 


OJ  ' 


,  OJ  c 

;  -5  42  2  8 

*  ro      c  i> 

-O  •—  u. 

•  2 

!      2  ro  £ 

^  u  — 


s"S  I 

C  w  0 

r;  w  b 

C  i/)  X. 

o>  ro 

c  1  a 

C  lj) 

£  o-S, 

o-  E  « 
£  o  c 


-  to  OJ 
■S.  10  O 

DO  L.  C 

330 
O  re  X 
•Et22  - 

OJ 

o  J2-2E 
o.  E  o 
OJ  o  — 
Q  in  « 

11% 

O  SZ  o 

.2 

  to 

O   OO  O 

.2  c  c 


00^  C  c 
c  oj  x  n> 
zz  sz  0 
x:  h-  0  M 
00  _g 
— .       re  *- 


re 

>  o 
ro  c 


2  c 

C  to 

oj  >- 

o  oj 

_  E 

re  o 

c  ^ 

OJ  3 

>-  u 

"0  00 
id  2-2 

0  ^ 

D-<  o 


Q 


^  - .  :e 


O  ti 

>  o 


E  "° 


2 


O  .= 


§  "-a 
£  E  0  ro 


H  L. 

_  oj 

SZ  OJ 

00- 
3  E 

o  2 
x?  0 


is 


2  a  a 


C  _   >^  OJ 

-  OJ   U  to 

—  00  u  2 
oj       >  xt 

OO  >,LU  " 
oj  —  -  o 
x  ro  c2 
oj 

C  OJ 

2  22  to  E 
^  ?  «  ~ 
'  y.2^ 


E  H 

2- « 
"e 

re  O 


£|f 

n  1  1 


3  C 

O  OJ 
o  OO 

2=g 
-  o 


*;  i/i  u 


12 

built 
$170 

S 

spent  in 
(uates  to 

it 
0 

page  / 

iillion 
tion  ec 

0 

from 

$8  n 
struc 

OJ    OJ     '  1 

>^  ll   j-    OJ  OJ 

ra  S  n  2  £ 
£  E     t  0 

^    OJ    OJ    ^  OJ 

2  ro  EqE 

^  2  c 
o  ro 
oj  3  oj  x:  _ 
Q.3  x:  o  o 

£  a 

aco  .^o  £ 
c     "  r  1  £  «j 

-  OJ  _,  V  — 1  r- 
-n   3  OJ 

u   3^  —  —   aj  aj 

oj  ro  j  JJ  sr 

—  o  2  ^  i 

2  oj  s  3  ,3-5 

aj  CC  dolU  o  o 


O 


2  o 
c  o 

OJ  X 


:  2 
:  sz 


c 


.  c 


o 
ro  o 

OJ  T3 
T3 


to  -  re" 

EES' 
6-g 

"OH 
O  OJ 


•3  O 

u1 


OJ 


ro 


■  ^  "°  r- 
,  Q    C  C 

°  C 

I  s| 

X.  ro  g 
ojU^ 


_  -3  oo 

m  sz 
U  C   ^  3 

c  —  £0 

-  Ebo 

Cg  CM 
O   2  — 

o  0  ro 

—  .2 


co  o  _2  u 

~ '      OJ  ' "~  *  - 

-  S  >  2  „  S 


<  0 

>  DO 


— ;   _  OJ 


oj  oj  c 


3|» 

3  a.- 


5  —  "d 
(i_>  cd  a>  — 

5  5  5  S 

"=  ro  "° 

x:  _  oj 

^      3;  in 

o  «j  re  c 

U   U  uCL 

oj  3.2,! 

£CJ  I  « 

2     E  £ 

—  o  i_  ro 

-3<P.  ro 
x: 


«  «'c 
|E^E 
^  2  8  g 

:    E  c  c 
o.  o.  a. 

000 


-  —  OJ  C 
g     U  U 

o  "O  o 
e  2  a. 

O  aj 

<->  —  — 

OJ  Q-'fE 

oj  Eo 
x:  o  o 
~  o  rsi 

2 

3:  1,3 

l>  UL, 

O-  oj  o 
co  ^ 

C 

O 


C     OJ  —  •  — 


E  to 

O  C 

O  O 

X  O 


4- 


4?  "3  *  * 


E3 
H 


Sprtngfio'd  —  Hoiyoka 
Mat  Ar«a 

Ssiardsy  q  14.400 

AUG  24,  2362 

III  I   I  II   III  I   II  I  I 

N2956 

PRESS  CLIPP1SGS 


MM 


Hurrah  for  Home  Depot 

Here  we  go  again!  Al  Norman  is  doing  his 
thing  (again)  with  his  anti-sprawl  campaign. 
Now  his  target  is  Home  Depot.  Enough, 
already!  Sadly,  Ames  is  closing.  This  store 
filled  the  needs  of  many  people  because  of 
its  location,  merchandise  and  affordability. 
Now  Greenfield  is  without  any  large  dis- 
count store. 

How  great  it  would  be  to  have  a  Wal- 
Mart,  Target,  or  Kohl's.  But  with 
Greenfield's  anti-business  reputation  and  AJ 
Norman's  stand  toward  large  retailers  who 
would  be  willing  to  locate  here  and  deal  with 
multi  problems.  The  exception  is  Home 
Depot,  who  is  willing  to  chance  it.  A  high 
five  and  hurrah  for  Home  Dept. 

To  our  elected  and  appointed  officiaJs, 
wake  up!  Stop  nitpicking.  Also,  we  don't 
need  anymore  of  Al  Norman's  stirring  the 
pot  and  acting  as  though  he  is  the  chosen 
voice  of  the  people. 

Let's  move  forward.  Welcome,  Home 
Depot.  Economically,  this  town  needs  new 
businesses. 

Writing  as  a  concerned  Greenfield  citi- 
zen, 

BERNICE  CAHILL 
Greenfield 


aupj/nrsigzs.ajcr.con^cgi-om.'UJUilerac..-HL>=U&oLn_query_i(j=jtiV3()  ;<EUoc  l  ype~  I  exiOn 


Format  to  Print/Save 


CD  Midwest  News 

Article  8  Return  to  Headlines 

Business;  B 

Rod  Vought,  manager  of  Daraman's  newest  store  in  Macomb  Township,  helps  customers  with 
patio  furniture,  a  service  that  keeps  the  hardware  competitive. 
Famiry-run  hardware  staves  off  franchises 

Neal  Haldane 

03/28/2002 

The  Detroit  News 

Page  02 

(c)  Copyright  2002,  The  Detroit  News.  All  Rights  Reserved. 

MADISON  HEIGHTS  ~  Damman  Hardware  survived  when  Builders  Square  and  Home  Quarters 
entered  and  left  the  market.  And  Rick  Damman,  president  and  CEO,  has  the  company  moving  forward 
as  it  competes  against  Lowe's  and  Home  Depot .  The  company's  newest  22,000-square-foot  store  just 
opened  in  Macomb  Township,  replacing  a  smaller  outlet  in  WarrerL 

"We've  had  competition  in  varying  forms  all  along,"  said  Damman,  whose  grandfather  opened  the  first 
store  in  Detroit  in  1920. 

But  the  competition  has  become  stiff.  Lowe's  has  21  home  improvement  warehouses  in  Michigan  with 
four  more  under  construction  as  the  company  embarks  on  its  most  ambitious  expansion  program  in  its 
history.  Lowes  entered  Michigan  in  1994. 

Home  Depot  has  opened  five  Michigan  locations  since  October  and  has  53  stores  in  the  state.  The 
company  entered  Michigan  in  the  mid-1990s  and  plans  to  open  three  new  stores  this  summer,  including 
one  in  Auburn  Hills. 

Not  to  be  outdone,  Damman  has  been  busy  the  last  few  years  increasing  the  size  of  its  stores  in  Grosse 
Pointe,  Rochester  and  Farmington,  and  opening  its  new  Macomb  Township  store. 

"Our  business  mission  is  simple,"  said  Damman  about  his  17-store  chain.  "Damman  Hardware  is  a 
hardware  retailer  focusing  on  convenience  and  customer  service." 

The  customer  base  is  96  percent  homeowners  and  half  of  shoppers  are  women,  he  said.  The  larger 
chains  have  lured  away  members  of  the  building  trades,  who  are  drawn  to  the  selection  of  tools, 
Damman  acknowledged. 

"The  professional  is  probably  where  we're  impacted  the  most,  but  we  just  don't  have  the  room,"  he 
said. 

Instead,  the  company  is  focusing  on  outfitting  the  home. 

"People  are  gravitating  toward  their  homes  and  we  will  be  carrying  more  home  decor,"  he  said.  "We  do 
a  heck  of  a  good  grill  business.  We  also  assemble  and  deliver  grills  for  free.  We  really  drive  the 


03/29/2002  U8  AM 


customer-service  aspect." 

That  customer  service  comes  from  a  staffof  250  associates,  who  have  a  stake  in  the  firm  through  an 
employee  stock  plan,  he  said. 

Damman  also  credits  the  company's  inventory  control  system  that  lets  personnel  track  "the  profitability 
of  each  item  at  each  store." 

Stores  such  as  Damman  Hardware  have  been  able  to  succeed  by  knowing  the  market,  said  Ellen 
Hackney  of  the  National  Retail  Hardware  Association- 

"You  have  to  look  at  your  market  and  figure  out  what  your  customers  want  and  need,"  Hackney  said. 
"Sometimes,  it's  service.  Sometimes  it's  a  convenient  location.  Sometimes  it's  a  niche  product." 

Damman  Hardware 


*  Headquarters:  Madison  Heights 

*  Employees:  475 

*  Started:  1920  in  Detroit 


*  Stores:  17 


*  Information:  www.dammanhardware.com 


Return  to  Headlines 


Format  to  Print/Save 


Copyright  ©  2000  Dow  Jones  &  Company,  Inc.  All  Rights  Reserved. 


of  2 


03/79/2002  8  29  A 


Will  shoppers 
make  tracks  to 
Home  Depot? 


Hsadhsm,  MA 
Wslirtcwn  Tab  i  Pratj 


Boilo  n 
Mil  Am 


TnuitrJar 


W  5,698 


By  Daniel  Wotfman 

STA/T  HMTIR 

On  April  25.  home  and  garden 
colossus  Home  Depot  will 
officially  open  its  doors  at 
the  Arsenal  Mall,  giving  weekend 
gardeners  and  do-it-yourselfers  a 
new  shopping  alternative,  and  small 
local  businesses  huge  competition. 

Surprisingly,  owners  of  some  of 
the  small  local  businesses  seemingly 
most  vulnerable  to  the  arrival  of  a  na- 
tionwide hardware  superstore  are.  at 
least  outwardly,  calm. 

Manny  Aloisc,  owner  of  Coolidgc 
Hardware  on  662  Mount  Auburn  St. 
—  the  only  hardware  store  left  in 
town,  until  next  week  —  said.  "1 
don't  think  [Home  Depot)  will  affect 
our  business  in  any  way.  Initially  peo- 
ple will  be  curious,  but  our  customers 
like  us  for  our  service." 

His  store  employs  seven  full-lime 
people,  the  newest  of  whom  joined 
seven  vears  ago.  The  store  itself. 


which  Aloise  has  owned  since  the 
..1989.  has  been  around  since  the 
1930s.  Dy  contrast,  the  br.ind-ncw 
150.000  square  feel  Home  Depot  ex- 
pects to  have  about  250  employees. 

Karen  O'Neil.  spokeswoman  for 
Home  Depot,  said  that  in  the  past,  the 
chain's  arrival  has  often  actually 
helped  small  businesses,  who  sud- 
denly find  themselves  receiving 
Hon>e  Depot's  leftover  customers. 

Which  is  exactly  what  happened  in 
Quincy  in  the  mid-1990s,  when 
Home  Depot  opened  one  of  its  first 
stores  in  the  state  about  21 1  Oof  a  mile 
from  a  longtime  local  business.  Curry 
Hardware,  which  is  only  about  5.000 
square  feel. 

"  People  told  us  the  first  year  would 
be  the  worst,"  said  co-owner  Sean 
Curry./That  we'd  be  hit  by  30  or  35 
percent,  wilh  layoffs."  To  avoid  that 
faie.  the  store  studied  Home  Depot's 
strengths  and  weaknesses,  modified 

HOME  DEPOT,  page  6 


APR  18.  2062 

lil 


QKSHH 


N21S82 

PRESS  CLIrPISCS 


i  D 


Local  businesses  not  scared  by  Depot 


HOME  DEPOT,  from  page  1 
their  approach  —  they  slopped  selling  cx- 
l>cn-.i\e  ixiwcr  tools,  for  example.  ;ind  stall- 
ed repairing  lawn-mowers  —  and  kept  their 
doors  open.  The  year  alter  the  mega-store 
opened.  Cuitv  Hardware's  business  was  up 
hv  12  percent.  Since  then,  the  increases 
have  uiKIcii  even  bigger,  growing  by  at 
le.isi  21)  percent  per  annum. 

1  he  keys.  \aul  Cum-,  have  been  to  keep- 
ing- luring  ex|iericiiccil  salesmen,  sell 
unique,  hard-lo-find  piojitcfs.  and  olfer 
•ox  ices  that  Home  Depot  doesn't  have. 
Hut  Cun-y  added  lhat  the  siory  hasn't  been 
mi  h.ippv  elsewhere  in  Quincy.  wilh  other 
iKirdn  ire  stores  having  In  close  shop  in  the 
\c.iis  since  Home  Depot  arrived.  In  Cun-y's 
opinion,  the  dilTerence  «as  largely  about 
how  open  lo  changing  their  styles  those 
Mores  «ere  —  and  weren't. 

Gvlidge  Hardware's  Aloise  says  he  has 
no  pi. uis  io  make  widespread  alterations. 
He  already  withstood  Home  Depot's  com- 


ing 10  Wallh.im.  and  is  confidant  his  cus- 
tomers —  97  percent  of  whom,  he  said,  he 
knows  hy  lace  —  will  remain  loyal  lo  his 
stoie.  Moreover,  lie  said,  his  prices  are 
"very  coinpetitn  e"  wilh  Home  Depot's. 

Dick  Maekin.  owner  of  Sterrin  Lumber, 
which  has  a  store  at  110  Arlington  St..  is 
similarly  nplx'at.  "I  think  I  really  don't 
compete  with  Home  Depot.  They're  more 
for  do-it-yousellers.  and  our  customers  are 
more  contractors-.  We  absolutely  welcome 
ihem  because  it  brings  more  people  lo  the 
town ...  And  people  find  that  Home  Depot 
doesn't  give  things  away.  They're  not  as 
cheap  as  some  people  think." 

Wliether  traffic  in  town  will  be  adversely 
affected  is  another  mailer.  "I  personally  think 
it  will  be  a  major  pioblein."  said  Aloise 

List  October.  Home  Depot  spokes- 
woman Shelly  Shumakcr  said  lhal  ihe  store 
had  conducted  an  "environmental  impact 
survey"  to  gauge  how  much  traffic  the 
lown  could  withstand,  and  .  found  lhal 


Home  Depot  could  fit  in  comfortably. 
Moreover.  Ann  &  Hope.  Home  Depot's 
predecessor,  actually  occupied  more  space 
than  the  new  store  will  (Linens  and  Tilings 
will  be  moving  inlo  the  remaining  area). 

Courtney  Cappallo.  the  Arsenal  Mall's 
marketing  director,  and  the  only  person  au- 
thorized to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  mall  ac- 
cording to  one  mall  employee,  could  rnx  be 
reached  before  deadline. 

Home  Depot  will  have  a  "wood-cutting 
ceremony"  on  April  24  which  local  offi- 
cials and  dignitaries,  including  Tov.  n  Coun- 
cil President  Clyde  Younger,  will  aliend. 
There,  the  store  will  make  a  S 1 5.000  dona- 
tion to  the  town's  after-school  programs. 
On  Saturday.  New  England  Patriot  Jer- 
maine  Wiggins  will  be  at  the  store  signing 
autographs. 

Doniel  Wolfimm  urn  \x  notched  at 
thiolpimn@ciic.cnni.  > 


Greenville.  R 
Obierver 

Proildmoi 
Mil  till 


Itiursday 


W  7,100 


DEC  S.  2061 


III  llll  III  I  llll  I II 

wsm 


II II  III  llll  I II  llll 


N51145 

rHr.ss  CUTTINGS 


HomeDepot  * 

Continued  from  page  1 
which  keeps  them  shipping  all  ovei 
the  state,  as  well  as  in  nearby 
Connecticut. 

While  an  estimated  75  percent  of 
their  business  is  with  contractors, 
they  still  offer  the  same  personal 
approach  to  everyone  who  enters 
their  doors. 

"Maybe  it's  the  service,  or  the 
help  we  give  people,"  explains  Mr. 
Brayton. 

"Contractors  can  come  and  sit  at 
the  counter  and  talk  about  their 
projects,  and  we'll  help  them. 
There's  no  rush  here.  And  there's  a 
certain  amount  of  customers  who"'-  few; 
like  the  smalT  store'  atmosphere! 


    .nMfilraHM|^r 

Local  stores  undaunted 
by  Home  Depot 


By  Dick  Martin 

Santa  Claus  may  be  on  his  way 
to  North  County,  but  so  is  Home 
Depot,  scheduled  to  open  its  doors 
in  January  at  the  Crossing  at 
Smithdeld. 

For  local  businesses  it  is  the 
kind  of  arrival  that  can  send  a  chill 
up  their  spines,  not  unlike  the 
arrival  of  Old  Man  Winter,  but 
they  are  hoping  the  megastore  will 
have  little  if  any  effect  on  their 
trade 

"I  can't  imagine  it's  going  to 
affect  us  any  more  than  the  one  in 
Warwick  did,"  says  Gordon 
Brayton,  manager  of  Country 
Builders  in  Scituate. 

"In  fact,  since  the  Home  Depot 
has  been  in  Warwick,  our  business 
has  grown." 

Local  businesses  pretty  much 
agreed  that  they  are  counting  on 
their  smaller  size,  customer  service 
(as  well  as  customer  loyalty),  and 
quality  of  merchandise  to  allow 
them  to  survive. 

Though  Home  Depot  may  offer 
aisles  of  selections  and  special 
bargains,  local  business  owners 
also  noted  that  customers-will  still 
have  to  negotiate  the  Route  44 
traffic  maze,  deal  with  giant 
parking  lots,  and  in  some  cases, 
lines  to  get  what  they  want. 

"I  don't  think  they'll  have  much 
effect  on  our  business,"  says 
Cheryl  Picozzi,  administration  and 
marketing  manager  for  Douglas 
Lumber  in  Smithiield  "Maybe 
we'll  even  get  some  of  their 
customers!" 

Both  Douglas  Lumber  and 
Country  Builders  explained  that  a 
good  deal  of  their  customer  base 

A 


AMONG  the  services  which  Greenville  Hardware  provides  its  clientele 
is  an  extensive  rental  department  Owner  Ron  Default  thinks  this  kind 
of  service  and  the  personal  touch  will  keep  his  customers  coming  back 
even  when  Home  Depot  opens  nearby  sometime  next  month.  (Observer 
photo  by  Albert  Tavakalov)  ■;*■ 


was  made  up  of  contractors. 
Douglas  Lumber,  in  particular, 
noted  thai'  90  percent  .of  their 
business  is  with  contactors,  con-', 
tractors  whoh'ivebeen-wtfhftu 


Smithiield? 

"We're  very  much  more  person- 
alized,", she  expLain*-,"  And  we're 
u  badc..ur'"*t 


'There  are  plenty  of  hardware  stores  surviving  quite 
well  within  the  areas  where  Home  Depots  are  located/ 

-  RonDeEaiuV 


long  time 

Their  delivery  range,  added  Ms. 
Picozzi,  extends  all  over  the  state, 
as  well  as  into  nearby  Massachu- 
setts, including  the  Attleboros 
Why  do  customers  bypass  places 
like  Home  Depot  in  Attleboro  to 
buy    at    Douglas    Lumber  in 


with  our  vendors.  We  have  good 
quality  products  " 

Mr  Brayton  agreed  in  terms  of 
his  own  business,  adding  that 
customer  service  was  a  prime 
ingredient  of  their  current  success, 


We're  not  worried  a  bit." 

Ironically,  one  of  their  major 
delivery  areas  is  in  Warwick,  nght 
down  the  road  from  a  Home  Depot. 
That  is  simply  the  result,  he  added, 
of  being  willing  to  give  loyal' 
contractors  what  they  need,  when 
they  need  it,  a  service  which  both 
Country  Builders  and  Douglas 
Lumber  make  a  point  of  providing. 

"Most  contractors  are  very  loyal 
to  the  yards  they  do  business  with," 
he  adds.  "So  we  work  to  supply 
stuff  to  where  they  are."  ' 

"The  customer  loyalty  would 
definitely  be  a  factor," -adds  Ms. 
Picozzj.  "We're  not  worried  »t  alUf  . 
Add  to  u^^hW'dettyeiybwiH}' 
•  restrictioni)?"  "  "  "  " 


Continued  on  Page  20A 


i  - 


Greenville  Hardware,  which  has 
been  in  business  for  over  100  years, 
is  hoping  tocontmue  that  tradition. 
One  of  the  businesses  closest  to  the 
Home  Depot  location,  Mr.  DePault 
is  hoping  his  store  fills  a  certain 
ruche  for  customers,  just  as  Dave's 
Market  Place  does,  despite  the 
looming  shadow  of  Super  Stop  and 
Shop. 

"There  is  always  going  to  be  a 
need  for  a  small  outfit,"  concludes 
Mr,  DePault.  "They're  looking  for 
the  quality." 

Greenville  Hardware  has  al- 
ready survived  one  challenge  when 
a  large  hardware  chain  moved 
across  the  street  from  them  at  one 
point,  occupying  the  building  they 
now  occupy:/"';"^  •*^<< 

Though  some  predicted  the 
demise  of  the  smaller  store, 
Greenville  Hardware  hung  on, 
outlasting  the  larger  competitor 
and  eventually  even  expanded  to 
offer  more  to  customers. 

Among  the  offerings  are  exclu- 
sive contracts  with  Benjamin  Moore 
Paint  and  Scott's.llawn  products, 
which  customers  won't  find  on  the 
shelves  at  Home  Depot.  They  also 
offer  a  wide  range  of  rentals  from 
champagne  fountains  to  forkl.lts 
"There  is  not  much  we  don  t 


wul  they.'.  __  mT_  , 

 ^-^.OTC^-T-jlj^  is 

slimmer  for  smaller  stores,  Like 
Greenville  Hardware.  Still,  he 
adds,  there  are  smaller  hardware 
stores  which  exist  in  the  shadows  o! 
glants  like  Home  Depot  in  other 
areas  also. 

Many  of  his  current  customers, 
he  added,  probably  already  shop  at 
Home  Depot  for  certain  things,  but 
Greenville  Hardware's  easy  access, 
.customer   service,    and  location 

"the~kou"te  44  -295  axis  should  help 
the  store  remain  competitive. 

When  people  need  something 
simple  or  forget  to  buy  something 
at  the  big  store,  it  is  often  easier  just 

in—  " — totAf' the  smaUer 


i«  2 

:  3  £  j 

"  ft    O  t 

3  a  3  3 


I*  Pill 

3  C_  £  o   <  _.  i» 
1  -  ~  " 


^3  *. 


c  1 


Salisbury,  MD 
Times 


Friday 


D  27,326 


NOV  9.  2001 


Just  as  large  and  small  stores  differ  in  what 
they  offer  and  how  it  is  presented,  so  do.'  ''.L 
customers  differ  in  what  they  are  looking  for,"  • 
how  they  wish  to  obtain  it  and  the  sort  of    ' ! 
environment  in  which  they  wish  to  shop. 
Locally  owned  hardware  stores  might  be 
hard-pressed  to  compete  with  Home  Depot  on 
the  basis  of  price  alone,  but  they  can  compete 
and  survive  based  on  their  ability  to 
maintain  long-term  relationships  with 
individual  customers.  While  some  customers 
will  flock  to  the  store  offering  the  lowest  . 
prices  and  really  don't  care  whether  anyone 
spends  time  helping  them  while  they  shop, 
others  are  happy  to  pay  a  little  more  in 
exchange  for  a  knowledgeable  clerk  who  is 
willing  and  able  to  advise  them  about  what 
they  need  to  get  the  job  done. 

The  beauty  of  it  is  there's  room  for  both 
kinds  of  retailer.  Many  customers  will  go  to 
one  place  for  some  purchases  and  another  for 
d  ifferent  items.  Choice  is  good,  and  Home  , 
Depot  will  offer  greater  choice  to  its 
customers  in  Worcester  County. 


in  mi  in  i  mi  i  mi  i  mi  i  mi  in  in  in 
BfflHH 


STRESS  CLIPPINGS 


,    ;       OUR  VIEW 

Berlin  ready 
for  the  Depot 

■  Retail  giant  offers  more  choice 

Berlin,  having  survived  commercially 
the  coming  of  Wal-Mart,  is  now  ready 
to  embrace  THfeHome  Depot,  opening 
Nov.  23  next  door  to  theWaLJMart  complex  on 
Route  50  east  of  town.  Home  Depot  and 
Lowe's  are  the  Wal-Marts  of  the  home 
improvement  world.  There  are  similarities 
between  the  companies  —  all  are  set  up  as 
giant  warehouses;  carry  huge  inventories  of 
what  seems  like  an  endless  variety  of 
products;  offer  discount  prices;  and 

emphasize  variety, 


IN  SUMMATION 

There  Is  room  in  one 
town  for  big-box  and 
smaller,  locally 
owned  retail 
establishments. 
Each  makes  its  own 
ugiquq,  offering  to  " 
the  buying  public. 


selection  and 
inventory  over 
personalized 
customer  service.  Not 
that  they  don't  offer 
any  customer  service 
—  They  do  — but 
neither  is  the  sort  of 
place  you  can  walk 
into  and  have  a  clerk 
greet  you  by  name, 
-    ~'v  -•"      •/';■  .    know  what  you  need 
almost  before  you  ask'for  it  and  have  your 
order  ready  for  free  delivery  in  minutes. 
Instead,' the  attraction  many  customers  find 
in  these  so-called  "big  box"  stores  is  the 
opportunity  to  wander  up  and  down  the 
aisles,  look  for  bargains  and  see  all  kinds  of 
possibilities  in  the  merchandise  displayed. 

Wal-Mart  has  been  called  a  killer  of 
downtown  commerce  because  it  offers 
everything  local  "mom  and  pop"  businesses 
sell,  but  at  cheaper  prices.  Entire 
communities  have  risen  up  in  protest  with 
the  announcement  that  Wal-Mart  was  coming 
to  town.  And  it's  true  that  nationwide,  many 
sole  proprietorships  have  disappeared  as  a 
result  of  the  inability  to  compete  with  the  low 
prices  featured  by  the  huge  discount  retailer. 
But  it's  not  universally  true,  and  the  reality  is 
that  smaller  stores  can  and  do  survive  and 
grow  alongside  big-box  retail,  by  offering 
what  Wal-Mart  and  Home  Depot  do  not  — 
specialty  products  and  more  personalized 
services. 


trruj  ,v-\ 

Coming,  NY 
Leader 


Mondav  0  14,868 

DEC  10,  2001 


MM 


1 1  inn  mi  i  mi  iiiii  i  in 

N4000 

PRESS  CLIPPINGS 


LETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR 


Home  Depot  is 
welcome  in  Erwin 

TO  THE  EDITOR  |  I  was 

troubled  to  read  in  the  Dec. 
5  edition  of  The  Leader  that 
Debra  Chesman  (spokesper- 
son for  REWIND)  stated 
Home  Depot  will  not  be 
welcome  in  our  communi- 
ty. Nothing  could  be  fur- 
ther from  the  truth!  Home 
Depot  is  more  than  wel- 
come here!  Not  only  does 
this  company  have  an  out- 
standing reputation  for 
their  generous  gifts  to  local 
charities  and  schools,  they 
have  also  earned  a  reputa- 
tion as  a  company  that 
pays  above  average  salaries 
to  their  employees.  If  we 
are  lucky  enough  to  have 


Home  Depot  in  Erwin,  the 
company  ca*n  create  as 
many  as  100  jobs  ....  and 
these  would  be  jobs  with 
family  benefits,  stock 
options  and  retirement 
plans,  that  many  people  in 
our  community  would 
greatly  appreciate  having. 
"Big  box"  stores  also  con- 
tribute a  great  deal  to  local 
tax  revenue,  so  it  would 
seem  to  me  that  while  our 
local  legislature  is  preparing 
to  raise  our  property  taxes 
by  almost  7  percent,  we 
could  all  appreciate  a  large, 
consistent  tax  revenue  gen- 
erator like  Home  Depot, 
coming  to  our  town.  But 
Home  Depot's  arrival  not 
only  helps  our  local  com- 
munity by  employing  peo- 
ple, donating  to  local  chari- 


ties, and  being  a  strong  tax 
revenue  source  ...  they  also 
have  a  well-earned  reputa- 
tion for  being  the  undisput 
ed  leaders  of  the  home 
improvement  business,  and 
they  have  earned  this  repu- 
tation by  offering  great 
prices,  quality  products, 
and  truly  knowledgeable 
service.  I  speak  from  per- 
sonal experience,  because  I 
used  to  live  in  a  town  that 
was  lucky  enough  to  have  a 
Home  Depot,  along  with  al 
the  other  home  improve- 
ment stores  like  Lowe's, 
and  Chase-Pitkins.  I  am 
looking  forward  to  the 
opportunity  to  shop  at 
Home  Depot  once  again! 

Colin  Wolf 

Painted  Po 


o 
o 
o 

CNI 


u 

Cl 

< 


CO 


3 
z 


CL, 


3 

JD 

CO 


C 

8 


-J  o  " 


-r-  (1) 

u  £ 
a  2 


>  «  O  !_ 
<    -  —  ~ 

sc  ;  b  'J 


C  c 
—  3 


ro       Z.  XZ 


£  7  -  E 

-c.ro  — 
—  roc  — 

_c  co  ro  .3. 
~  -a  ' 


-E  O 
=   -  PL  • 


2  2  5 


f  ro  —  £  2      5  p 


~  ro  — 


_   nj  — 


-or 


ro 

5  X 

0)  -o 

—  o 
o  C 

—  c 


ro  rt 

c£ 

'.Z  c 
j=  2 

OB  '— 

3  ro 
ro  3 
u  — 

CO  co 

S't 


H  o 

Q  CO  — 

1 

^  2  -° 

=  "  c 

CO  0)  £ 

^  T3  S  1- 

„,  p  -a  o 

—  u  s_,  O 


on 


E 
o 
X 


c 

m  ro 


CO  C. 


i_  o  53 

c  r  si 

* 

Cl  a,  d  C 

_  cn  u  cu 

—  o  t:  a) 

3:  „  o  ^ 

~   co  3 


o 

|  O  M 

p  73  C 

«2  J 

— i  .C  1/5 

— ;  cu  *~* 
—  -C 

co  >  O 


-a  i_ 

o 

J3 
73-£? 

3  £ 


c/j  £— 
.  ro 

00  <-> 
co  a> 
O)  J3 
C 


Sunday 


Reading,  PA 
Eagle 

Rssdlng 
Mai  Arsa 

SUN  101,11 
"EB  13.  2000 


I!  I  III  il  ll  I  II  II 


mm 


N4820 

"  •<  I'  <  ^  CLlPn  vi,  -, 


Don  Spatz 


David  learns 
to  get  along 
with  Goliath 


I've  often  championed  the  cause 
of  the  smaller  shops  trying  to 
stay  in  business  after  the  big 
chain  stores  come  to  town.  It  can  be 
done,  I've  said,  if  the  shop  finds  its 
niche  and  customers  can  see  how  it 
differs  from  the  big  boxes. 

Now  comes  a  good  example  of  a 
smaller  competitor- A_D.  Moyer  Lum- 
ber &  Hardware  -  that's  not  only  still 
standing,  but  had  its  best  sales  year 
ever  in  1999  despite  a  Home  Depot 
opening  up  directly  across  the  street 
from  its  Pottstown  facility. 

The  results  surprised  even  compa- 
ny owners  Scott  and  Terry  Moyer,  and 
marketing  director  Ron  Schock  de- 
spite the  four  years  of  preparation  the 
company  undertook  to  get  ready  for  a 
battle  it  knew  was  coming. 

"We  were  cautiously  optimistic," 
Schock  said.  "We  were  relatively  con- 
fident we  would  stand  our  ground.  We 
knew  we  would  lose  some  of  the  do-it- 
yourselfers,  but  we  figured  we  would 
make  it  up  on  the  contractor  end. 

"But  we  did  not  at  all  think  ...  we 
would  have  our  best  year  ever  in  60 
years  of  being  in  business  " 
What  did  A  D  Moyer  do" 


The  company  began  preparing  in 
1995,  Schock  said.  Although  there 
were  no  plans  for  a  home  improve- 
ment giant  to  move  into  the  area 
then,  the  company  knew  someday  it 
would  face  a  Lowe's  or  Home  Depot 

Schock  said  he  spent  months  re- 
searching how  other  independent 
lumber  dealers  reacted  when  faced 
with  the  same  situation.  He  compiled 
a  list  of  companies  of  similar  size  and 
product  mix  and  interviewed  them,  by 
telephone  and  e-mail,  to  see  what  they 
did  right,  and  what  they  did  wrong. 

Schock's  report  led  management 
to  plan  what  A.D.  Moyer  would  do. 
But  the  plan  would  have  been  futile 
without  a  buy-in  by  the  companies' 
110  employees  among  its  three  facili- 
ties in  Gilbertsville,  Pottstown  and 
near  Birdsboro. 

"We  are  fortunate  to  have  a  very 
tight-knit  team  of  employees  here 
who  care  about  this  company  as  if  it 
were  their  own,"  Scott  Moyer  said. 
"'None  of  the  changes  that  our  man- 
agement team  proposed  would  have 
mattered  or  even  been  possible  if  the 
employees  hadn't  believed  in  the 
company  or  the  plan  themselves." 

A.D.  Moyer  had  picked  up  more 
do-it-yourself  customers  a  year  earli- 
er when  Rickel  Home  Centers 
closed,  but  believed  it  would  lose 
some  of  that  crowd  to  Home  Depot.  It 
decided  to  focus  more  on  its  best  cus- 
tomers -  the  contractors  to  whom  it 
had  been  catering  for  years. 

Thus,  it  hired  more  outside  sales 
staff  and  invested  in  specialized 
builder-friendly  equipment,  such  as 
a  knuckle-boom  truck  (for  better 
placement  when  it  unloads  its  deliv- 
eries) and  a  computerized  estimating 
system. 

And  it  decided  not  to  compete 
with  Home  Depot  on  the  same 
brands.  Instead,  it  changed  to  other 
brands  of  products  and  tools  aimed 
at  professional  builders. 

"We're  not  trying  to  be  all  things  to 
all  people,"  Schock  said.  "The  places 
that  went  out  of  business  (tried)  to 
compete  on  the  price  issue." 


It  also  ramped  up  its  specialty  ser- 
vices, such  as  custom  millwork  and 
custom  ordering.  And  it  adopted  a  slo- 
gan -  "It's  all  about  quality"  -  that 
Schock  claims  is  not  an  advertising 
gimmick  but  the  company's  way  of 
doing  business  and  choosing  products. 

The  plan  worked:  The  builders  car- 
ried the  company,  but  it  didnt  lose  as 
much  of  the  do-it-yourself  crowd  as  it 
thought  it  would,  Schock  said.  And 
even  Home  Depot  helped,  by  locating 
directly  across  the  street  and  bringing 
customers  to  A.D.  Moyer's  end  of  town. 

"We  are  much  better  off  with  them 
being  across  the  street  than  across 
town,"  Schock  said.  "WeVe  found  that 
their  existence  actually  has  brought 
us  more  customers  in  some  depart- 
ments than  we  had  before." 

But  he  acknowledges  the  battle 
isn't  over. 

"We've  got  to  change  on  the  fly;  we 
have  to  stay  on  our  toes  and  change 
things  as  the  business  changes"  and 
product  or  tool  lines  don't  move,  he 
said.  "We're  more  cognizant  of  that  now 
than  we  may  have  been  in  the  past" 
■ 

Don  Spatz  is  business  editor  of  the 
Reading  Eagle  and  Reading  Times.  To 
comment,  call  Eagle  Link  at  610-376- 
6000,  category  3010.  Or  e-mail  as  at 
dspatz@readingeagle.com 


QJ  j 

a  "J 
w  E 

'-3  rt 


■5  3 


l7>  3  2 


—  o 

aj  o  .~ 


CO   ; 

v  a. 
E- 


i— *  ' — ■ 

e  o 
c  -c 
2 


CO 


^0 


-  qj  ■= 

y       ..    QJ  n 


—  OJ 

a;  o 
a;  2 


CO 

OJ  4> 

II 
CO  ^ 

ri  c 

§1 

-a  -o 

3  S 
oj 

OJ  it. 

CO  2 


3  - 

c 

.2  o  £ 
3  1 

<-  o  5 

~    C  QJ 

•c  u  j- 

■3  3-3 

co  -  co 

a>  "3 
o  c  o 
c«  -a 


5 

a>  co 


.5  cv  oo  S 
in  fl  c  a 

5^ 


C  OJ 


*3 


QJ  o 
O  CO 

i2  QJ 

co  rt 
> 

3 


S3  3  -5  "§ 


<u  £2  "3 


£  t>  2 


5  3 


o  2  - 

°£  «    .         -  rt 

g  -  E2  «  ■=  o 


O  -3  E-  C»  2s-- 


o 

ID 


o  £  5 
o  ^ 


C  id       c  ...  rj  «-■      C  "O  lis  _  -X3  --j 


O.  co   £   Cd    _  .2  •  — 


a)  ci 


.2 


o-  3 


3^  o  «^ 
a     ^  q>  *t  II  S  -o  *"  -a  c  = 

t£-5  J   Of-  y  C  S=      3-2  O  3 
CO  1-  >  — 


C  QJ  — 

3  Q-~ 


S 


-j  ^c;   QJ  .— 

"3  Q>        I  "QJ  — 


a3 


■a  « 

9"  P 


QJ 


o 

t 

3 


'  QJ 


e  o  5  o  ^ 

S3  ' '  — 


■a 

QJ 

o 
> 

QJ 

Q 


QJ 


l_i  ^  ^ 
V  ^  _ 

^  -    |  <2 

t—  -P  n 

—    >>  OJ  u 

m  cu  c/i  5  -S  c 
^  pjl  a 
c  ^  f— 


2  QJ  U;  53 

3  ?  ^2 
aj  o  rt  '3 

^  '3  qj  -a 
a  § 


2  i= 


"P  o  g  £  5 
i:  j=  2  qj  ' 


QJ 


3  _ 
w  o  ^ 


O  a; 

1J  s 


—  -  CO 
«  O)  c 

■3  -a  «j 


2  2 


d  ^  ■  -  •- 

-  — -  , — •  o 

c 


-> .  n  x  5 


< 


< 


5  =  51 


in  


m 


a  a  > 


INC. 
Boston.  MA 


5 E Ml  -  MONTHLY  784.967  j 

SEP      1999  I 

ii  n  ii  ii  mi  in 

MESS  CL1PPINOS 

'Reports  of  my  death...' 

Letters  continued  to  pour  in  in  response  to 
our  20th-anniversary  issue,  including  this 
one  from  a  business  oumer  who  resented  the 
part  of  our  time  line  ("In  Our  Time, 
1979-99")  that  chronicled  the  rise  of  mega- 
retailers  such  as  Home  Depot  at  the  expense 
of  mom-and-pop  operations.  [ 

I 

I  found  it  interesting  to  read  about  my 
apparently  imminent  demise  in  your 
20th-anniversary  issue  [in  "Die,  Cate-, 
gory.  Die!"].  We  started  our  hardware 
store  one  year  before  Home  Depot's 
founding  and  have  managed  to  grow  by 
a  factor  of  40  during  the  past  22  years, 
in  spite  of  having  the  familiar  orange 
facade  within  five  miles  of  either  side  of 
our  location.  We  represent  the  mom- 
and-pop  operation  that  you  describe. 
But  as  members  and  owners  of  a 
TruServe  hardware  cooperative  that  last 
year  sold  $4.3  billion  in  hardware  at 
wholesale,  we  hardly  see  ourselves  as 
grist  for  the  bankruptcy  mill.  In  fact,  we 
feel  that  we  are  the  nimble  competitor 
that  vou  often  write  about,  who  can  feel 
and  react  quickly  to  the  needs  of  our 
customers.  While  770  is  an  impressive 
number  of  stores,  there  are  more  than 
8,000  stores  in  our  co-op  countrywide, 
and  our  co-op  represents  only  one  of 
three  major  hardware  co-ops  in  the 
marketplace. 

What  really  struck  me  in  that  issue 
was  the  Editor's  Note  waxing  eloquent 
about  the  birth  of  Sa;7and  ultimately  of 
Inc.  as  a  result  of  its  founder's  early  fail- 
ure with  a  school  on  a  sailboat.  It  must 
be  discouraging  to  see  that  effort 
doomed  by  the  emergence  of  publish- 
ing behemoths  such  as  Time  Warner. 
It  s  obvious  to  everyone  that  there  will 
be  no  room  for  a  publication  like  yours 
among  companies  that  dominate  the 
publishing  and  entertainment  world, 
li  s  a  shame,  since  over  the  years  I  have 
found  the  magazine  to  be  a  valuable 
resource  in  the  growth  of  our  business. 

JIM  WILKERSON 

PROPRIETOR 

ni  tCKHAWK  HARDWARE 

(  MA  RLOTTE.  N  C. 


Greenwich,  CT 
Time 

Bridgeport 
Mil  Arts 


lurday 


D  12  861 


NOV  13.  1999 

III  I  llll  II II llll  I  llll  Hill llll  III  II 

iMM  N1G82 

jLllLSLl]  CLIPPINGS 


Javier  Gorriti,  left, 
David  Henderson, 
Robin  Rodgers  and 
Rob  Texlere  stand 
in  front  of  the  new 
Banksville 
Hardware  store, 
which  has  relocat- 
ed to  a  new,  larger 
site  at  23  Bedford- 
Banksville  Road. 
Chain  hardware 
stores,  such  as 
Home  Depot,  have 
had  little  effect  on 
the  business. 

Alison  Rprilich/'lllt  |)lid1n 


Banksville  Hardware  grows  up 


By  Peter  Healy 
Staff  Writer 

After  about  30  years  of  operating  in  a 
storefront  that  was  smaller  than  most  of  its 
customers'  homes,  Banksville  Hardware 
has  opened  new.  expanded  quarters  a  few 
hundred  yards  from  its  original  site  in 
backcountry  Greenwich. 

"The  si/.e  of  the  stoic  is  attracting  a  lot 
more  people."  said  Trey  Kelsey.  owner  of 
Banksville  Hardware  "We  think  it  is  a  vital 
pail  of  a  growing  business  We  are  seeing 
a  lot  of  new  faces  from  Stamford  and  the 
surrounding  towns  ' 

The  hardware  store  is  in  the  Banksville 
Home  Center  complex,  which  opened  last 
month  at  23  Bedford-Banksvdle  Road, just 
over  the  New  York  state  line.  Since  themid- 
1960s,  the  hardware  store  had  been  in  a 
1 .5()0-s(|uare- fool  space  in  the  North 
Street  Shopping  Center  in  the  Banksville 
neighborhood  of  Greenwich.  Bedford- 
Banks  vi lie  Road  is  a  continuation  of  North 
Street  in  Greenwich. 


The  complex  contains  a  1 0,000-squai c- 
foot  hardware  store;  the  3,000-squarc-lool 
Just  Ask  Rental  Center;  The  Saddler,  a 
4,500-square-foot  gifts,  clothing,  boots 
and  horseback  riding  supplies  shop,  and 
the  A.N.S.  fence  store.  Kelsey,  46,  owns 
those  businesses,  as  well  as  Greenwich 
Hardware  on  Greenwich  Avenue  iryGrccn- 
wich.  He  bought  Banksville  Hardware  in 
1978. 

Kelsey.  a  Greenwich  native,  said  the 
Banksville  Home  Center  has  scheduled  a 
grand  opening  for  Nov.  20  and  21. 

The  home  center  also  includes  a  1 -acre- 
plus  area  where  lawn  and  garden,  fence  and 
construction,  and  gravel  supplies  arc  sold. 
Future  expansion  mighl  include  a  lumber- 
yard. Kelsey  said. 

His  business  is  unfa/.cd  by  chain  hard- 
ware stores  such  as  Jjjjrjic;  Depot  anil 
Lowe's,  which  have  prompted  smaller, 
independent  rivals  to  close  nationwide. 
"We  offer  services  that  Home  Depot  does- 
n't have,  like  free  delivery,"  he  said. 


Other  smaller  hardware  stores  in  lower 
fail  Held  County  include  Keough'sTum  of 
River  Hardware.  Handyman  Hardware, 
Karp's  ServiStar  Home  Center  and  West 
Side  Hardware  &  Supply  ill  Stamford. 
Fcinsod  ServiStar  Hardware  in  Old  Green- 
wich, Center  Hardware  and  Housewares  in 
Cos  Cob,  Super  Handy  Hardware  Center 
in  the  Glcnville  section  of  Greenwich  and 
Weed  &  Duryca  in  New  Canaan.  Norwalk 
has  a  Home  Depot  on  Connecticut  Avenue. 

But  the  effect  of  the  big  chains  on  the 
mom-and-pop  stores  has  not  been  cata- 
strophic. 

The  United  States  had  2 1 ,200  hardware 
stores  of  all  sizes  in  1998,  down  from 
22.100  in  1993,  according  to  the  Indi- 
anapolis-based National  Retail  Hardware 
Association. 

'The  big  chain  hardware  and  wholesale 
clubs  have  probably  had  a  greater  impact 
on  smaller  home  centers  and  smaller  lum- 
ber and  building  materials  outlets,"  said 
association  spokeswoman  Ellen  Hackney. 


Rocheitor,  NY 
Democrat  end  Chronicle 

Roohiiltr 
Mil  Aril 

MontUj  0  183  gt32 

APR   19.  1999 


Ml  16 

F »£SS CLirriNCS 


Old  store,  new  competition 


■  Hunt's  Hardware  tries 
to  finds  its  niche  in  the 
shadow  of  big-name 
home  centers. 

it  \  <  i  \  r  i  w  Kin:  h 

JANICE  BULL ARD 

When  Dave  Hunt  joined  the 
family  hardware  business  in  1964, 
there  weren't  any  home  centers. 

The  store  clerks  didn't  use  a  cal- 
culator, much  less  a  computer.  The 
Hunts  ordered  by  gut  feeling.  They 
tallied  customers'  charges  on  paper 
bags. 

Now  the  Hunts,  after  almost  a 
century  in  business  in  the  19th 
Ward,  confront  realities  of  their 
hardware  business  in  the  '90s: 

■  Big  names  such  as  The  Home 
Depot  and  Lowe's  have  entered  the 
market  with  huge  supercenters 
and  advertising  budgets. 

■  Wal-Mart  plans  a  store  on 
Chili  Avenue,  a  couple  of  miles 
away. 

■  A  competitor  is  buying  a  hard- 
ware store  next  to  the  Wal  Mart 
and  will  be  better  positioned  to 
benefit  from  the  discounter's  traf- 
fic. 

"Talk  about  a  challenge,"  said 
David  Berman,  president  of  RAL 
Plumbing  Supply.  Berman.  initially 
worried  about  the  impact  that  The 
Home  Depot  would  have  on  his 
Middletown.  Orange  County,  store 
a  few  years  ago,  has  added  to  his 
business  by  studying  home  center 
strategies  and  coming  up  with  a 
few  of  his  own.  He  has  traveled 
across  the  country  to  do  lectures 
for  small-business  owners. 

Hunt's  is  on  the  right  track,  ac- 
cording to  Berman.  The  store  is  es- 
tablishing a  niche  as  a  paint  spe- 
cialist, particularly  for  older 
homes. 

Hunt's  has  been  a  neighborhood 
hardware  store  since  the  1880s. 
when  Isaac  Hunt  opened  shop  in 
Belfast,  Allegany  County.  The  fam- 
ily moved  to  Rochester,  and  in  1914, 
opened  Hunt's  —  it's  still  at  the 
same  Thurston  Road  location. 

A  lot  has  changed  in  four  gener- 
ations. The  Hunts  use  computers, 
of  course.  Customers  are  demand- 
ing faster  service,  bigger  selections 
—  and  bargains.  Dave  Hunt,  the 
president,  works  about  10  hours  a 
day  without  a  break  for  lunch.  Vis- 
it him  and  you'll  see  him  wait  on 
customers,  calling  many  of  them 
by  name. 


Looking  ahead  D;ivc  Hunt,  right,  president  of  Hunt's  1  larclwnrc,  and  his  father  Hill  peer  through  .1  g.ilv.i- 
nizcd  furnace  duct  at  its  Thurston  Rond  store,  which  has  been  open  sinic  1914. 


"They're  nice  people  to  work 
with,"  said  Errol  Daniel,  a  regular 
customer  who  does  maintenance 
work  for  Foodliak.  He  marched  in 
one  day  and  used  Hunt's  blade- 
sharpener  for  free. 

At  73,  Bill  Hunt  still  works  there 
regularly.  Sons  Dave  and  Bill  share 
management  responsibilities  now; 
Bill  Hunt  Jr.  is  the  vice  president 
for  operations,  and  he  runs  the 
company's.  South  Avenue  store, 
which  opened  a  few  years  ago. 

One  of  the  perceptions  Hunt's 
battles  is  that  big  stores  have  lower 
prices.  SmaJl  stores  typically  be- 
long to  buying  organizations  such 
as  Servistar,  and  are  able  to  obtain 
products  just  as  cheaply  as  the 
large  chains,  Dave  Hunt  said. 

Berman  said  the  Hunts  can  do  a 
number  of  things  to  increase  visi- 
bility RAL,  for  instance,  dresses 
someone  as  a  huge  duck  and  sends 
the  duck  to  community  events  to 
attract  attention. 


Hie 

Challenge 

Competing  with  large  hardware 
chains  such  as  Home  Depot  and 
Lowe's. 

VITAL  STATISTICS 

■  NAME:  Hunt  s  Hardware. 

■  LOCATIONS.  390ThurstonRoadand 
750  South  Ave. 

■  PHONE:  436  9270.  271  787  7 


■  PRODUCTPamt, hardware. 

■  OWNERS:  Bill,  Dave  and  Bill  Hunt  Jr. 

■  EMPLOYEES:  15 

EXPERT'S  ADVICE 

From  David  Berman.  president.  RAL 
Plumbing  Supply  in  Middletown.  Orange 
County 

■  Continue  carving  a  niche  in  the  mar- 
ket  "Personal  service  really  has  to  be  the 
trick  — the  only  placewherepeopiecan 
comeandtalk  tothemtogivethem some 
real  advice 

■  Be  visible.  Do  outrageous  things 
^ilhodver  tismg 


The  store,  also  gives  away  small 
rubber  ducks  with  the  company 
name  on  them. 

Advertising  should  be  inventive, 
Berman  said.  RAL  has  run  billboard 
ads  "that  were  absolutely  outra- 
geous, so  that  they  became  the  talk 
of  the  community  " 

The  Hunts  are  considering  new 


marketing  strategies  to  draw  atten- 
tion to  their  products  and  services. 
Dave  Hunt  said  the  store  might 
start  targeting  property  mainte- 
nance managers  or  contractors 
through  direct  mail. 

"We  have  to  realize  that  we're 
not  going  to  be  able  to  rely  on  repu- 
tation." he  said,  j 


Slroudsburg,  PA 
Pocono  Record 

Sorsr.ton 
Mat  Ares 

Monday  o  2 1  480 

AUG  2.  1999 

II I  I  I  II I  I!  I  III  I 

QH333C3  pres  s  c  arrives 


MATT  BIRKBECK 


Life 
in  the 
Poconos 


Little  guys 
stand  up  to 
the  big  boys 

Bulldozers  on  Friday  were 
clearing  what  was  left  of  the 
building  that  once  housed 
Mikels  Motors  cn  Route  611 
near  the  Stroud  Mall. 

Dirt  and  dust  filtered  into 
the  air  as  large  boulders  were 
crushed  into  oblivion,  all  to 
make  way  for  a  new  CVS 
store. 

But  boulders  aren't  the  only 
things  getting  the  squeeze 
from  a  bigger  and  stronger 

foe. 

Just  next  door  to  the  con- 
struction site  is  Ed's  Pharma- 
cy, which  has  been  serving 
customers  from  its  present 
location  for  more  than  10 
years. 

Does  it  make  any  sense  to 
build  a  new  CVS  drugstore 
next  to  a  smaller  competitor? 

Only  if  your  name  is  Goliath 
and  you  are  looking  to  bull- 
doze David  right  out  of  busi- 
ness. 


In  this  case  pharmacist  Ed 
Clause  is  playing  the  role  of 
David. 

Clause,  who  was  busy  serv- 
ing customers,  is  taking  the 
move  by  CVS  in  stride, 
though  I  wouldn't  expect  him 
to  lay  out  a  welcome  mat  for 
CVS. 

"I  have  no  problem  with 
them  coming  over  here,  per- 
sonally or  professionally,"  said 
Clause.^The  door-swmgfi,both  j 
ways.  Customers  will  go 
where  they  feel  comfortable." 

Clause  said  his  store,  like 
many  small  businesses,  fills  a 
niche  in  the  community  and 
the  key  to  his  success,  now 
and  in  the  future,  will  be  to  i 
maintain  that  niche.  J 

"We  do  specialized  work  for 
various  organizations  like 
Lehigh  Valley  Hospice  and 
have  a  rapport  with  doctors 
that  is  pretty  good,"  said 
Clause.  "We  also  have  the 
time  to  do  things  where  they 
may  not,  like  sponsor  clinics. 
So  am  I  running  scared?  No." 

There's  no  telling  what's  in 
the  future  for  Clause,  but 
what's  happening  to  him  is  a 
predicament  facing  other 
small  business  owners  in 
Monroe  County. 

With  much  of  the  area  meta- 
morphosing from  a  country 
hamlet  to  suburban  hub,  oth- 
er small  businesses  have  had 
to  adjust  to  the  natural 
migration  of  bigger  and  better 
known  competitors  eager  to 
serve  that  growing  popula- 
tion. 

Over  in  Tannersville, 
Steele's  Hardware,  for 
instance,  has  seemingly  sur- 
vived the  opening  of  the 
Home  Depot  just  a  few  miles 
down  the  road  in  Stroud 
Township. 

"There  has  been  some  j 
impact,"  said  owner  Jack  I 
Steele,  who  opened  his  store 
18  years  ago. 

"But,"  he  added,  "people  said 
we  could  expect  a  40  percent 
loss  of  sales.  It  hasn't  been 
anywhere  near  that." 


To  keep  his  customer  base 
Steele  said  he  and  his  staff 
have  tried  to  improve  upon 
their  formula  of  tweaking 
prices  and  insuring  good  cus- 
tomer service. 

"We're  not  just  trying  to 
make  sure  our  service  is  up  to 
snuff;  we  are  also  always  com- 
paring our  prices,"  said 
Steele. 

He  added: 

"We  have  always  been  a 
neighborhood  store.  We  know 
(Home  Depot)  is  in  town,  but 
we  haven't  been  driven  out  of 
business." 


u 

■X. 

< 

< 
a 
z 

0) 


LU 
Qi 
U. 

z 
c 

h- 

O 

z 

_) 
a: 
Z) 


o 

f 


LU 


re  . 


o  -o 

O  QJ 
QJ    ^  j- 


O  M  •w 

S.'w.l  -  a. 
E  E 

0  ^  o  v2  x 

1  f  -S  S-o 

>>  a!  ro  c 

u-  E  E 


5  cl 

lo  n: 


E  2 

«  cj  re 

l£  E 


re  


•  ^ 

o  2 

c  l-> 

eg  >- 

o 

m  u. 


~£2 


-a  >  • 
—  u 
3  x: 

O  w 


p  o 

QJ  z.   

X  C  ro 

lo  > 


_r  £  -a 


o  _ 

-N  p  -J 

,    to  o 

■a  w  p 

p  o  E 


1)  =: 
X  X 
*■"  O  . 

►S  D0° 

O  LO 


S  E 

*  re 


aj 


<u  <l> 


9J  Pl 

u.  O 

O  QJ 

X  Cl 


re  • 
oj  D. 
-a  o 

—  x 
a;  10 
■£  -u 

c 

qj  re 
— 1  c 

-  p 

re  i- 
ui  qj 

<u  > 

'f  2 

-  bj  -p 

3  E 

),°  o 


o  H 
o 

"S  *  s 

v  r  c 

E  o 

">    P  r1- 

—  -C  l_ 

O  ro 

qj   qj 

O  2  C 

c;  p  qj 

w  o  > 

_  "Z5  rt 

re  ro  -P 

— •  ro  xi 


o  .-p: 
qj  "o 

C  CL 

O 

^  o 

°p 

Cl^c 

p  ™ 


c  -o 
o  c 


£  ^  - 


-  p 


o     —  -r 


re 

E  to  ^ 

p 

c  i~ti 

aif 


P 

^  p 

re  > 

u  O 

O  i_ 


-  i2  E 

"  CO 

.b:  ™  -C 

™  '5b 

DO  C 

ro  re 
<v  — 

C  ^  w 

to  ro  "2 

re  w. 

2  §.2 

u  r 

■°  uc 

^  O  Cl 


u 
> 


^2 

re  ^ 
'Z  E 

o  c 

PlO_ 
(LI 

Q"re 

v  c 


e  :  * 


>^jp 

(L>  — 

"P  ^? 
>.  - 

re 

1/5  (D 
CQ 


p 

°  o 
a.  ^ 

(Ll  uj 

a  6 


>  > 


P 
_Q 

<— .  O 

52  o  2  " 

>  i-1  „ 

>  _a  o 
o  t:  oo 


QJ 

Li 

U  <L> 

O  Cl 

— '  <S1 

>,  £ 

P  CL, 


re  > 
jp 

L-  ? 


"I' 

QJ  O  ■  — 
P  5^ 

o  .b;  S 

00  QJ  W 


x:  . 
■p  w 
?.E 

re 

O  _c 
-a  u 


■a  o 

c  • 
o  -a 


51 

05  3 

QJ      -  P 
c/l  (/I 


O  ' 

c 

"O  o 
re  • — 
-P  re 

QJ  C 
(/I  QJ 

O  _c 


QJ 

>-x; 


Cl  q. 


>-  S  ^  O  © 

.     QJ  —   


TJ  re 
S  2 


U    P  v-. 

i«  xi  ro 


2  i 


■£  60 

x:  — 


QJ  <U 

1  S) 

E  c 

bO  ^ 

a  qj 

T3  ~3 
C  Vj 

QJ 

Cl  qj" 
0Jv2 

I—  QJ 

re  _o 


to  w 

C  P 

p:  o 
»->  " 

3  ro 

CO  c  - 

i-  ro 

QJ 

■—  (/I 

ro  •—  . 
ci  ^ 
v-< 

t>0  <J 


c  IE 
o  -2 


oj  aj  _<2  ^ 

E  »)  P  o 

3  c  £  j= 

to  CO 

5  El  2  I 


E  E 


no 
C 
'u 
c 
— 

L    li  (j 
W   DO  X 
C  i- 
X  3 

QJ  LO 

--2'p 

C  TJ 

O  QJ 

C  u 

O  QJ 

U  ^ 
QJ  Cl 


Arracnk  Hardware 

CtiiUimivd  from  page  8 
building  materials  Home  Depot  does- 
n't sell.  In  just  one  trip  to  Home  Depot 
the  typical  suburban  home  can  be  fully 
outfitted  with  all  the  supplies  required 
for  blinds,  wallpaper,  floor  coverings, 
furniture,  cabinets,  grills,  heaters, 
plumbing,  lighting  and  electrical 
work.  A  homeowner  could  finish  not 
only  the  basement,  but  the  kitchen, 
bath,  lawn  and  garden. 

And  after  all  the  shopping  is 
through,  a  homeowner  has  no  need  to 
worry  about  an  oversized  load  damag- 
ing the  car.  They  can  opt  to  have  pur- 
chases delivered  home,  or  packed  into 
a  Load  'N  Go  rental  truck.  If  they  want 
to  leam  more  about  the  merchandise 
or  how  to  use  their  equipment,  they 
can  take  a  free  product  knowledge  or 
how-to  clinic.  If  they  are  unhappy  with 
a  purchase,  they  can  bring  it  back  has- 
sle free.  A  customer  doesn't  have  to 
buy  a  tool  at  Home  Depot,  he  can  rent. 
He  doesn't  have  to  install  an  appli- 
ance; he  can  lake  advantage  of  an 
installation  service 


Willi  locations  in  Mohegan  Lake, 
New  Rochelle.  West  Nyack  and 
Danbury,  one  might  think  that  Home 
Depot  has  monopolized  home 
improvement  in  the  Westchester  area 

But  Tom  Sessa,  the  assistant  store 
manager  at  the  Danbury  Home  Depot 
said  that  doesn't  have  to  be  lhercase 
for  small  hardware  stores.  "You  can  be  ■ 
a  mom  and  pop  outfit  'cause  you  can 
do  things  a  big  store  can't  do.  There's 
enough  clientele  out  there  for  every- 
one, you  just  need  to  change  Home 
Depot's  been  around  for  20  years,  and 
it's  changed." 

And,  in  fact,  Home  Depot  hasn't 
run  small,  local  hardware  stores  into 
the  ground.  According  to  hardware 
store  managers  in  Mount  Kisco, 
Lewisboro  and  Armonk,  their  stores 
are  still  successful 

"We've  changed  around  how  we  do 
things,"  said  Chuck  Vroman,  the  man- 
ager at  Mt.  Kisco  Supply.  "We  low- 
ered prices.  What  we  normally  sell 
wholesale,  we  are  selling  to  cus- 
tomers." 

Mike  Levinton,  the  manager  at 
Lewisboro "Vamt  and  Hardware,  said  "I 
guess  we  lose  the  large  dollar  things 
where  people  shop  the  price."  But 
when  it  comes  to  less  expensive  items, 
the  difference  between  a  Home  Depot 
and  his  own  hardware  store  is  mini- 
mal, practically  pennies.  He  said  that 
local  residents  shop  for  smaller,  inex- 
pensive items  where  it's  convenient 
and  courteous,  so  he's  limited  his  sale 
of  larger  equipment  and  brought  in 
new  lines 

Dennis  Buonocore,  the  owner  of  the 
Armonk  Hardware  Company,  high- 
lights the  advantages  to  his  store.  "We 
are  very  courteous  and  very  helpful, 
whereas  the  big  chains  aren't  "  He  also 
said,  "I'm  very  local.  I  know  all  the 
people  here  in  town." 

While  Home  Depot  has  challenged 
small,  locally-owned  stores  in  the 
same  way  that  Starbucks,  The  Gap, 
and  Bames  &  Noble  have  challenged 
their  local  equivalents,  the  impact  has- 
n't been  all  negative. 

As  Dennis  Rosascl,  one  of  the  store 
managers  at  the  Mohegan  Lake  Home 
Depot  said,  "If  you  take  care  of  your 
customers,  your  customers  will  come 
back  to  you.  If  you  give  them  reason  to 
shop  elsewhere,  they  will." 


f 


SMALL    li  U  5  i  .m  i-  i  o    o  i  is  /<■ 


Over  four  generations,  Hutchinson  Plumbing  Supply 
has  grown  to  meet  changing  customer  needs. 


nsrr  u  o  si*ii  f 


•  Sisters  Maureen  Strang  (left)  and  Ann  Hutchinson  joined  the  77-year-old  family  business  in  Matawan  riglu  ahoul  t he  time  tins 
kitchen  and  bath  showroom  was  opened. 

Flush  with  success 


By  WILLIAM  CONROY 

BUSINESS  WRITER 

Inevitably,  a  business 
thai  lasls  for  77  years 
evolves 

Evolution  is  pari  of  the 
histoi  y  of  Hutchinson 
Plumbing  Supply,  bom  in 
1922  in  Manhattan  and  a 

fixturcricrcm  from  tbr  

Malayan  train  station 
since  1929. 

As  ihe  times  and  the 
buying  habits  of  its  cus- 
tomers have  changed.  Hut 
chinson  Plumbing  Supply 
has  changed  with  them. 
Sisters  Ann  Hutchinson 
and  Maureen  Strang,  the 
fourth  generation  of  the 
family  to  run  the  business, 
say  the  company  they  have 
now  is  much  different 
from  the  one  their  great- 
grandfather Thomas  War- 
ren Hutchinson  started. 

And  they  want  to  keep 
changing  it  They  don't  see 
that  they  have  much 
choice. 

The  biggest  change  in 
the  plumbing  business  in 
Ihe  last  couple  of  decades, 
they  said,  is  the  rise  of  the 
showroom  Hutchinson 
added  its  own  in  1986 

"By  the  end  of  the  '80s, 
every  supply  house  had  a 
showroom."  said  Hutchm 


son,  the  general  manager 
of  the  company. 

Consumers  have  become 
much  more  discriminating 
about  what  they  have  in 
their  bathrooms  and  kitch 
ens.  she  said.  They  want  to 
see  and  touch  the  faucets, 
sinks  and  tubs  and  know 
exactly  what  they  aje  get 
ting,  instead  ol  leaving  il 
mostly  to  the  plumber  or 
contractor,  said  Strang, 
the  showroom  manager. 

"People  put  a  lot  of 
thoughtinto  their  bath- 
room," she  said  "Not  just 
the  rriasjer  bathroom; 
every  bathroom,  the  kids' 
bathroom  and  the  powder 
room." 

Bathrooms  have  become 
more  numerous  and  more 
elaborate,  with  whirlpools 
and  other 
variations.  A 
house  with 
as  many  as 
five  bath 
rooms  is  not 
that  uncom- 
mon any 
more,  she 
said. 

"One  of 
the  keys  to 
the  show 
room  is  that 


The  V 
showroom 
has  given 
customers 
more  say 


kind  of 
plumbing 
fixtures 
they.  buy\ 
.  such  as. 


jesK 
faucets. 


it's  a  working  showroom 
-  we  have  faucets  work- 
ing, whirlpools  working, 
toilets  working."  Strang 
said. 

In  addition  to  Ihe  work- 
ing samples.  Hutchinson 
Plumbing  Supply  can 
show  a  shopper  on  a  com- 
puter screen  how  things 
will  look  with  different 
color  schemes,  materials 
and  dimensions.  The  com 
pany  added  this  feature  in 
1997. 

The  company  still  works 
closely  with  plumbers  and 
depends  on  them  for  refer 
rals.  but  for  the  last  decade 
it  has  also  been  advertis- 
ing directly  to  consumers 
in  newspapers  and  maga 
zines. 
The  showroom  has 
helped 
Hutchin 
son's  sales 
grow. 
From  an 
nual  sales 
of  $2  5  mil 
lion  to  $3 
million  in 
the  early 
'90s.  Ihe 
company 
grew  lo 
sales  of 


ahoul  $5  million  last  year. 
Hulchinsnn  said.  About  40 
percent  of  sales  arc  bath- 
room products 

Fifteen  years  ago.  there 
were  eight  employees 
Now  ihere  are  21  On  Ihe 
2  li  acre  site  the  company 
owns  across  from  the  train 
station,  they  work  in  a 
7,000  square-foot  main 
building,  (which  includes 
the  2.500- square  foot  show 
room)  and  a 
7.500  square  foot  ware 
house. 

Hutchinson  and  Strang, 
who  have  no  other  broth- 
ers and  sisters,  are  the 
first  women  to  head  the 
company.  Their  grandfa- 
ther. Warren  B  Hutchin- 
son, was  in  charge  from 
1929  —  when  his  father 
died  —  until  his  death  in 
1973 

From  the  beginning  in 
1922.  the  company  had  a 
warehouse  in  Matawan. 
Warren  B  Hutchinson  rie 
cided  lo  move  the  head- 
quarters from  New  York  to 
there  lo  give Ihe  business 
more  space,  and  Ihe  com 
pany  could  still  serve  its 
plumber  customers  in  New 
York  quickly,  shipping  its 

See  Flush,  Page  B 12 


Business 

Monday        (The  Patriot  Jrbgfr       November  19,  2001 

Small  hardware 
store  is  thriving 

Currys  feared  Home  Depofs  arrival 


By  KEITH  REGAN 

For  The  Patriot  Ledger 

QUTNCY  -  When  Home  Depot 
opened  just  around  the  comer  from 
Curry  Ace  Hardware  on  Cdpeland 
Street  about  nine  years  ago.  second- 
generation  owner  Bob  Curry  feared 
the  worst. 

'*We  were  petrified  when  Home 
Depot  came  irC'  said  Curry.  "But  it's 
ended  up  helping  us,  not  hurting 
us." 

Business  is  so  strong  that  Curry 
has  finalized  plans  to  nearly  double 
the  size  of  his  shop,  which  his  fa- 
ther, Paul,  founded  in  19-45. 

The  2. 8 00- square -foot  expansion, 
for  which  permits  have  been  issued 
and  was  initially  slated  to  start  this 
fall,  will  now  probably  get  under 
way  next  June,  after  the  busy  spring 
garden  season  has  ended. 

Curry  said  some  details  of  the  ex- 
pansion are  being  kept  under  WTaps, 
but  said  that  one  area  of  the  business 
that  needs  additional  space  is  the 
paint  department. 

"Some  days  we  trip  over  each 
other  when  we  leave  here,  it's  so 
busy,"  he  sajd. 

Curry's  son  Sean  said  the  store 
was  the  first  Benjamin  Moore  paint 
dealer  south  of  Boston  and  he  point- 
ed out  that  its  location  just  off  1-93 
makes  it  a  convenient  opuon. 

The  store  also  focuses  on  niches 
that  the  big-box  store  down  the 


street  negJects,  such  as  specialty 
coatings,  faux  finishes,,  custom  and 
hard-to-find  fasteners  for- contrac- 
tors and  screen  repair,  Sean  Curry 
said. 

Bob  Curry  said  the  store  had  one 
of  its  busiest  months  in  October!  He 
attributes  the  fact  that  his  business 
has  thrived  while  other  family- 
owned  hardware  stores  have  wilted 
under  the  threat  of  the  home  im- 
provement giants  to  outstanding 
customer  service. 

"We've  got  about  a  dozen  people 
who  work  here  at  various  times  and 
they  ail  go  the  extra  mile."  Bob  Cur- 
ry said.  "We've  got  a  great  reputa- 
tion for  jumping  through  hoops.  If 
someone  comes  in  and  needs  some- 
thing, our  mission  is  to  get  it  for 
them.  If  that  means  we  have  to  call 
Home  Depot,  that's  what  we'll  do" 

Another  reason  many  hardware 
stores  failed,  Bob  Curry  said  is  that 
they  "remained  old-fashioned." 

No  one  can  accuse  the  Currys  of 
that.  The  two  are  among  the  co- 
founders  of  HomeTownStores.com, 
a  Web  site  that  sells  home  improve- 
ment products.  "We  didn't  stay  old- 
fashioned,"  Bob  Curry  said. 

Sean  Curry  said  the  expansion 
project  will  take  about  18  weeks.  As 
pan  of  the  project,  the  Curry's  pur- 
chased a  building  next  door  that  w  ill 
be  used  for  temporary  storage  dur- 
ing the  project  and  then  razed  for 
additional  parking. 


Alt  BUSINESS 


Hardware  stores  unfazed  bylHome  Depot 


Bv  Marlene  Urso 


Staff  , 


Home  Depot's  familiar 
orange  shingle  could  become 
a  formidable  presence  at  the 
Chartiers  Valley  Shopping 
Center,  but  some  local  com- 
petitors are  not  intimidated  by 
the  hardware  giant 

"At  first  it  will  hurt  us 
because  it  is  a  novelty,  but  we 
have  a  lot  of  items  they  don't 
stock,"  said  Jason  Sarasnick, 
co-owner  of  Sarasnick 
Hardware  in  BndgeviDe. 

Sarasruck  is  confident  that 
his  loyal  customers  will  contin- 
ue to  buy  specialty  plumbing 
items,  bolts,  screen  and  win- 
dow suppLies  and  other  mer- 
chandise at  his  store.  He  says 
the  Home  Depot  will  eventual- 
ly bring  more  business  his  way 

"It  will  be  an  asset.  It  will 
draw  people  to  the  area." 

Regardless  of  how  local 
rcLailers  feel,  the  Collier  Home 
Depot  is  due  to  open  on 
Thursday,  Sept.  19.  The  116,593 
square-foot  store  includes  a 
tool  rental  center,  a  garden 
center,  an  expanded  appliance 
center  and  kitchen  and  bath 
design  place 

The  store  will  employ  165 
people  Most  will  be  hired  from 
the  local  community  A  hiring 
trailer  was  on  -  site  beginning 
on  Monday 

Sarasnick,  a  fourth  genera- 
lion  owner,  says  his  first  job  in 
the  hardware  business  was 
carrying  boxes  for  his  father 
when  he  was  in  the  seventh 
grade. 

He  prides  himself  on  provid- 
ing the  right  product  and 
knowledge,  something  he 
claims  his  larger  competitor 
cannot  always  do. 

"You  have  to  find  your  niche 
in  this  business." 

When  Sears  Hardware 
opened  at  Great  Southern 
Shopping  Center  it  impacted 
his  business  negatively  for 
about  six  months  Now  he  has 
more  business  because  of  it. 

Sarasnick  said  a  customer 
who  recently  bought  a  faucet 
at  Sears  Hardware,  ended  up 
buying  $40  worth  of  acces- 
sories at  his  store. 

The  Sarasruck's  have  also 
managed  to  combat  the  Home 
Depot's  volume  buying  advan- 
tage by  uniting  with  other 
small  hardware  stores  to  form 
the  True -  Value  Cooperative 
bu  ying  group  Through  the  co- 


JOE  SARASNICK  organizes  the  shelves  at  family- 
owned  Sarasnick  Hardware.         Photo  by  David  Pinchot 


op,  its  8,000  members  can  get 
better  prices  by  making  joint 
purchases. 

Sarasnick  said  hardware 
giants  like  Home  Depot  and 
Lowes  make -their-,  profit  on 
"blind  items  " 

A  pipe  at  the  larger  stores 
might  be  cheaper  but  fittings 
are  three  tunes  as  much  as 
those  at  Sarasruck  Hardware 
He  warns  that  "buyers  beware" 
when  purchasing  trivial  items. 

Customers  typically  look  for 
a  good  price  on  paint  or  a  sta- 
ple gun  but  as  a  matter  of  con- 
venience will  buy  items  like 
rollers  and  staples  to  complete 
a  project  without  comparing 
prices. 

Sarasruck  said  his  prices  for 
several  small  items  are  lower. 
His  roller  covers  are  $4  98  and 
theirs  are  $2  95  Keys  are  cut 
for  $1.10  while  Home  Depot 
charges  $1  89 

But  Home  Depot  representa- 
tives say  their  prices  can't  be 
beat. 

"If  a  smaller  retail  competi- 
tor tries  to  compete  with  us  in 
pricing  they  will  lose,"  said 
Shelley  Schumaker,  spokesman 
for  Home  Depot  in  Atlanta. 

Lf  a  customer  finds  a  lower 
price  on  an  item  the  company 
will  match  it. 

"We  will  create  competition 
among  retailers  and  drive 
prices  down." 

But  Shumaker  said  smaller 
stores  compete  in  other  ways. 

"If  someone  is  the  loyal  cus- 


tomer of  a  small  retailer,  no  - 
one  will  pry  that  customer 
away." 

Ed  Applebaum,  owner  of 
Carnegie  Supply,  said  his  15,000 
square  foot  store  offers  conven- 
ience. 

"Customers  can  get  the 
product  and  then  get  the  [heck] 
out  of  here  and  get  the  job 
done" 

Schumaker  suggests  that 
small  retailers  provide  services 
and  product  lines  other  than 
those  offered  at  Home  Depot. 

Applebaum  has  access  to 
items  that  giant  retailers  don't 
have,  but  said  there  is  also 
quite  a  bit  of  overlap. 

■"We  have  the  ability  to  get 
almost  anything  " 

Like  Sarasnick,  Applebaum 
belongs  to  a  cooperative  of 
smaller  retail  stores.  The  Ace 
Hardware  co-op  gives  him 
more  buying  power. 

Both  he  and  Sarasnick  have 
a  mix  of  retail  and  commercial 
business.  They  also  agree  that 
the  Ace  and  True  Value  stores 
have  enjoyed  a  growth  spurt  ,n 
the  past  year. 

But  Applebaum  attributes 
the  success  he  and  his  father 
Max,  83,  have  enjoyed  for  the 
past  60  years  to  their  excellent 
customer  service  They  have  15 
knowledgeable  employees 

"We  will  continue  to  do  what 
we  do  now,  that  is  have  some- 
one on  the  Door  customers,  carf^ 
talk  to." 


MonroeviHe,  H 
Bridgsviffa  Njws  sta- 

P'ttiburjt, 
Mgl  Aug 

'Vecfnei.dar 

AUG  14,  2,:i02 


JU|t|iiHiBifloniii 


W  1.7. 


Pittsfield.  MA  t 
Berkshire  Eagle 

Albany  —  Schs.?s;(ady  —  *roy 
Mit  Area 

Manday  C  3(1361 

JUN   17,  2902 

auiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiii 

N3682 

rRE$\  CLIPPIVCS 


mm 


Home  Depot  employees 
are  prepared,  helpful 

To  Ihe  Editor  of  THE  EAGLE.  -  ...  .  . 

I  wonder  who  the  editors  think 
will  be  Home  Depot's  uninformed, 
rude,  and  inattentive  employees. 
(In  Brief,  June  13). 

Contrary  to  the  editor's  rheto- 
ric, Home  Depot  employees  will 
be  hired  from  the  same  local 
workforce  as  the  local  hardware, 
lumber,  and  garden-supply  mer- 
chants. I  have  been  a  customer  of 
Home  Depot  for  many  years  and 
am  happy  to  have  a  local  store. 
Their  employees  are  helpful,  pre- 
pared, and  knowledgeable.  It  is 
clear  they  are  well-trained  to  help 
do-it-yourself  customers. 

There  are  excellent  local  mer- 
chants such  as  L.P.  Adams,  but 
most  are  not  geared  for  the  do-it- 
yourself  customer,  only  contrac- 
tors. The  variety  of  products 
Home  Depot  offers  allows  cus- 
tomers choices  that  weren't  other- 
wise available  or  more  difficult  to 
acquire.  I  feel  that  offering  cus- 
tomers  excellent  service,  low 
pnces,  and  a  large  selection  is  hard- 
ly exploitation.  It's  the  American 
way. 

ART  SANDERS 
Middlefield,  June  13,  2002 


Pittsfiaid.  MA 
Berkshire  Eagle 


Albany  —  Scnineotady  -  Troy 
M  »t  Ar a 9 


Thursday 


D  30.361 


JUN  20,  2902 


I  I!  II  I      II ,  II I 


MM 


N3002 

fRF.w  C  LI  PHI  \  G  i 


Bigger  is  not  always  better 


To  Die  Edjior  of  THE  EAGLE  - 

In  response  to  the  article  "Area 
stores  gird  for  Home  Depot  Open- 
ing," area  companies,  don't  fret! 
You  still  have  loyal  customers  and 
recognizable  service  Home  Depot 
doesn't  provide. 

My  husband  and  I  are  do-it- 
yourself  amateurs  who  enjoy  im- 
proving our  home.  Recently  we 
remodeled  our  house,  added  an 
addition,  a  deck  and  landscaped. 
During  that  time  we  enjoyed 
shopping  at  the  Home/ Depots  in 
Massachusetts  and  New  York.  We 
even  had  some  deliveries  made  to 
us  —  for  an  additional  cost,  of 
course.  However,  when  the  siz- 
able checks  were  cut  we  spent 
locally  at  comparable  prices.  Just 
because  they  say  they're  less  ex- 
pensive doesn't  make  it  so. 

On  Mother's  Day  I  was  given  two 
beautiful  raised  flower  beds  my 
husband  constructed  of  delivered 
wood.  I  got  the  idea  from  the  Home 
Depot  flier  and  when  I  called^our 
lumber  company,  I  saved  30  cents 


per  board.  My  husband  was  re- 
lieved he  wasn't  employed  to  haul 
it  in  our  vehicle  too;  he  had  enough 
work  to  do! 

Local  companies  have  that  per- 
sonal touch  general  contractors 
and  amateurs  like  us  appreciate. 
Our  material  order  was  received 
over  the  phone  by  Carol  or  Pete  of 
Dettingers,  put^in  our  account,  ; 
delivered  free  and  stacked  in  the- 
garage.  We  received  the  best 
straight  cuts  and,  if  we  ordered  too 7 
many,  one  of  the  men  (whom  we 
also  knew  by  name)  picked  it  up  . 
for  return  credit.  0 

Time  is  money  and  my  time  is 
valuable.  Try  getting  that  service  .* 
at  your  box  store.  Yes,  your  returns 
are  courteously  accepted  there,  , 
too,  (after  you  haul  it  in  your  vehi-  , 
cle,  spend  your  gas,  stand  in  line 
hopefully  with  your  receipt  or  they  . 
can  credit  that  account  you  owe  at  , 
21  percent  interest.  We  depend 
daily  on  our  reliable,  recognizable  * 
business  owners  from  Bart  of  Carr 
Hardware  to  Nancy  at  Lanesboro  | 
Supermarket  and  Hardware  and 
many  more  in  between. 

Garden  Nurseries  shouldn't  fret  ' 
either.  I  appreciate  going  to  Paula 
at  Hunt's  Nursery  who  intelligibly 
explains  what  is  best  in  each  loca-  . 
tion  and  miraculously  names  ', 
each  one.  Like  a  good  small  busi-  " 
ness  owner,  she  knows  her  inven-  ' 
tory  and  sells  the  best.  Without  'J 
the  right  help  or  healthy  plants, 
trial  and  error  can  be  expensive  ' 
for  us  gardening  freaks.  Like  me, 
many  homeowners  have  their  '• 
favorite  businesses  where  a  rap-  1 
port  has  been  built.  That  can't  be 
shaken  by  the  big  box  stores.     :  ,; 

Office  suppliers  didn't  fold  when  4 
Staples  came.  Efficient  offices^ 
depend  on  their  good  machines, 
service  and  delivery.  If  their  paid 
staff  or  the  owner  is  shopping  "> 
while  the  clock  is  ticking  for  sup- 
plies or  service,  well,  they're  penny 
wise  and  a  dollar  foolish. 

Yeah,  Home  Depot  is  coming  , 
and  111  shop  there,  too.  Competi-" 
tion  is  healthy  and  bigger  isn't 
always  better. 

MARIE  MATHEWS  - 
Lanesboro,  June  12,  2002 


Exhibits  to  Anna  Shimko's  comment  letter  are  faced  with  blue  sheets. 
Comment  letters  resume  alphabetically  after  the  second  blue  sheet. 


Date:   Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 

Lin  jvrTun<xte^/ ^     /     wiH    nvt  b&  able.    7b    afjend  ths^ 


JUL  i  4  1M 

PLANNING  DEPT 


resident \     J_      am      vesy     concerned    abo^T   Ms  pro/ed~,      V  ci*\ 
rwT  Opf&Zct     T~d      /^enie    &ef4~    per  but    t  c*m  cLfinifl/^ 

163       Gpf&sed     To      7%      &gcJ<l      &f    #'~s     j^roj^cST.      S^-  k&x&s' 
Qnz      t?cifr&    najneTs  p>g    e/liL    wqk/J    have.    <=*■//  S*<n 

^fnxr&^eO    as     ih     cz>t%}, men/    oire^    -a/Vfcg,  neJT n^re^"  /5    rn  £&//?i*t_ 

t/^e  the    &&rt  o-f  trc*.-0&   j-^Jj&ms     we.    ov&nt  7a   cy&zfe-  avt~ 

jwdt  f&r  Q-  H.  but  -f®r  S-  f-  .  M  asn&zil  ?  <7%zre  i's>  sty  cptosst&l 
fn  mmd     That    fyfe    we^/c/     eei&rJy    J&jrade.    ^Ify  of  fir 

Sincerely,  &l']       QermJ      H&Sfh7s     r&s*%kn/£  Phase. 


Signature 


Printed  Name:      /f/C>/?A/  ^S/KVYFj  

Address:  kTtW@&rQN    J>T&££T     1411 0 


/^W/^e-     Pry^saJ    :     /_ef.    Home    D^oT  Uid     s-b  8^ 
■frm^hovT    ST.      tfL^U    H*    W/   /aafc    f&  cafe    cud  in  tum 
forces    fir    cux'U^     Ut    fa     hefan    he.    r^T  cJ^s  jL  k>fc»i  . 

/~et~    us      As     /eade^s      and      /H>7~   totf&^rs     of  pa.hji^  ft&uk 


E-142 


Date: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

RECEIVED 

JUL  1  0  2003 

PLANNING  DEPT 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


x 


3  -      \jA  do* 


Sincerely, 


Signature 


Printed  Name: 
Address 


E-143 


Gina  M.  Solomon,  M.D.,  M.P.H. 
305  Montcalm  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94110 


July  3,  2003 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  for  491  Bayshore  Boulevard,  2001.0062E 
Dear  Mr.  Maltzer, 


JUL  1  0  2083 

PLANNING  DEPT 


I  am  a  physician  with  training  in  Internal  Medicine,  Occupational  and  Environmental 
Medicine,  and  Public  Health.  I  have  expertise  in  the  fields  of  air  quality  and  the  health 
effects  of  air  pollutants  including  ozone,  particulate  matter,  diesel  exhaust,  and  NOx.  I 
am  an  Assistant  Clinical  Professor  of  Medicine  in  the  Division  of  Occupational  and 
Environmental  Medicine  at  the  University  of  California  at  San  Francisco,  and  an 
Attending  Specialist  at  the  U.C.  Pediatric  Environmental  Health  Specialty  Unit.  I  am  also 
a  Senior  Scientist  at  the  Natural  Resources  Defense  Council. 

I  have  reviewed  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  (EIR)  for  the  proposed  Home 
Depot  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard  and  have  serious  concerns  about  the  quality  of  the  EIR 
and  about  the  conclusions.  I  am  writing  to  strongly  urge  the  Planning  Commission  to 
reject  this  proposed  project  in  its  current  form. 

The  proposed  project  will  significantly  increase  regional  ozone  pollution  in  a  non- 
attainment  area. 

If  this  project  were  approved,  it  would  significantly  increase  ozone  levels  in  the  region. 
According  to  the  EIR,  the  increased  automobile  and  truck  traffic  associated  with  Home 
Depot  would  spew  hundreds  of  pounds  of  air  pollutants  into  the  air  throughout  the  Bernal 
Heights  neighborhood.  The  EIR  found  that  the  project  would  be  responsible  for  an 
estimated  84.5  pounds  per  day  of  reactive  organic  gases  (ROG).  This  means  that  the 
project  would  have  a  "significant  unmitigable  impact"  on  air  quality.  Reactive  organic 
gases  are  precursors  of  ozone  smog.  Ozone  has  been  shown  to  trigger  asthma  attacks  in 
susceptible  individuals,  and  recent  studies  in  Los  Angeles  indicate  that  ozone  can  cause 
asthma  in  children  who  play  outdoor  sports  (see  discussion  of  asthma  below).  In  addition, 
the  Bay  Area  is  an  ozone  non-attainment  area  [Federal  Register:  July  10,  1998  (Volume 
63,  Number  132)],  so  projects  such  as  this,  which  create  significant,  unmitigable  impacts 
on  air  quality  by  increasing  emissions  of  ozone  precursors  must  be  viewed  with  particular 
suspicion 


E-144 


Coments  by  Gina  M.  Solomon,  M.D,  M.P.H.  on  491  Bayshore  Boulevard 


The  EIR  fails  to  adequately  address  the  project's  emissions  of  particulate  air 
pollution. 

Although  Home  Depot's  contribution  of  sooty  particles  to  the  local  air  falls  below  the 
level  of  significance'  in  the  EIR,  the  document  fails  to  take  into  account  the  new 
standards  related  to  this  pollutant.  On  June  20,  2002,  the  California  Air  Resources  Board 
lowered  the  allowable  level  of  respirable  particulate  matter  (PMio)  in  the  air  from  30  to 
20  micrograms  per  cubic  meter  (annual  average).1  San  Francisco  already  exceeds  this 
level.  The  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  has  not  yet  revised  their  guidelines 
(written  in  December  of  1999)  to  account  for  the  new  state  standard.  Following  the 
outdated  BAAQMD  guidelines  for  these  particles  (as  was  done  in  this  EIR)  will  ensure 
that  San  Francisco  continues  to  fail  to  meet  the  state  standard.  Also  in  June  of  2002,  the 
Air  Resources  Board  set  a  new  standard  for  fine  particulate  matter  (PM2.5)  at  12 
micrograms  per  cubic  meter.  This  standard  reflects  the  science  showing  that  the  smallest 
particles  are  the  most  hazardous  to  human  health.  The  EIR  fails  to  address  PM2.5  from 
this  proposed  project  at  all.  Therefore,  the  impact  of  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  on 
local  particulate  air  pollution  is  significant  because  it  "contributes  substantially  to  an 
existing  or  projected  air  quality  violation"  (CEQA  Guidelines,  Appendix  G) 

Particulate  matter  is  known  to  increase  emergency  room  visits  for  cardiac  and  respiratory 
disease,  increase  rates  of  myocardial  infarction  (heart  attack),  and  contribute  to  premature 
death.  In  addition,  diesel  particles  have  been  linked  to  asthma.  More  than  98  percent  of 
the  particles  emitted  from  diesel  engines  and  cars  are  fine  particles,  less  than  1  micron  in 
diameter,  which  can  bypass  respiratory  defense  mechanisms  and  penetrate  deep  into  the 
lungs.3  Numerous  studies  have  found  that  fine  particles  impair  lung  function,  aggravate 
respiratory  illnesses  such  as  bronchitis  and  emphysema,  and  are  associated  with 
premature  death.4  Also,  dozens  of  studies  link  airborne  fine-particle  concentrations  to 
increased  hospital  admissions  for  respiratory  diseases,  chronic  obstructive  lung  disease, 
pneumonia,  and  heart  disease,  including  an  increased  risk  of  acute  myocardial  infarction.5 


The  EIR  fails  to  evaluate  project  impacts  from  a  host  of  Toxic  Air  Contaminants. 

Reactive  Organic  Gases  are  volatile  chemicals  that  have  significant  toxicity  in  their  own 
right.  They  include  toxic  air  contaminants  such  as  benzene,  toluene,  1 ,3-butadiene, 
formaldehyde,  and  others.  Benzene  and  1 ,3-butadiene  are  known  human  carcinogens. 
Formaldehyde  is  a  probable  carcinogen  and  airway  irritant.  Toluene  is  "known  to  the 
State  of  California  to  cause  birth  defects  or  reproductive  harm".6  Toxic  air  contaminants 
(TACs)  are  a  variety  of  hazardous  chemicals  that  are  emitted  by  diesel  and  gasoline 
engines.  The  EIR  fails  to  perform  risk  assessments  for  any  of  these  chemicals,  even 
though  they  are  toxic  air  contaminants  and  should  be  included  in  the  EIR. 


The  EIR  underestimates  the  air  quality  impacts  on  the  neighborhood. 


2 

E-145 


Coments  by  Gina  M.  Solomon,  M.D,  M.P.H.  on  491  Bayshore  Boulevard 


The  draft  EIR  fails  to  consider  cumulative  impacts,  including  current  air  quality 
conditions  associated  with  traffic  in  the  local  area,  and  projected  future  air  quality  once 
Home  Depot  and  various  other  businesses  are  all  located  along  Bayshore  Boulevard.  In 
particular,  we  have  been  informed  that  other  'big-box'  stores  are  considering  property 
along  Bayshore  Boulevard  if  the  Home  Depot  project  is  approved.  This  'big-box  alley' 
would  result  in  air  quality  impacts  far  in  excess  of  those  projected  in  this  EIR  and  would 
result  in  a  serious  cumulative  impact  on  the  neighborhood  and  the  region.  Locating  a 
'big-box  alley'  in  such  close  proximity  to  a  residential  neighborhood  and  a  school  would 
be  a  poor  public  policy  decision  and  could  constitute  a  significant  health  and 
environmental  threat  to  the  area. 

The  draft  EIR  seriously  underestimates  likely  air  pollution  impacts  from  the  proposed 
project  by  failing  to  consider  three  important,  yet  obvious,  factors:  First,  the  draft  EIR 
assumes  that  all  vehicles  are  traveling  at  a  constant  speed  of  25  miles  per  hour.  However, 
the  traffic  study  indicates  that  there  will  be  primarily  stop-and-go  traffic  at  most  major 
intersections  in  the  neighborhood.  This  is  because  of  the  combination  of  stop  signs, 
traffic  lights,  and  heavy  traffic  projected  as  a  result  of  this  project.  Traffic  that  is  stopping 
and  starting  generates  far  higher  emissions  than  traffic  moving  at  a  constant  speed  of  25 
miles  per  hour.  For  example,  VOC  emissions  rates  for  a  1980's  car  would  double  from 
about  7  g/mi  to  about  14  g/mi  if  the  car  is  stopping  and  starting  rather  than  traveling  at  a 
constant  25  mph  (Figure  1).  Carbon  monoxide  emissions  for  a  similar  car  would  increase 
from  about  75  g/mi  to  about  175  g/mi.  It  is  clear  that  the  assumption  that  vehicles  will 
travel  a  constant  speed  of  25  MPH  is  not  only  patently  false,  but  it  will  also  seriously 
underestimate  the  impact  of  this  project. 


Second,|a  significant  portion  of  the  automobile  traffic  to  the  site  is  projected  to  come  over 
Bernal  hill  (via  Cortland  Avenue  or  smaller  side  streets).  Emissions  studies  consistently 
demonstrate  that  vehicle  emissions  increase  substantially  when  the  engines  are  under 
higher  load  conditions  as  a  result  of  an  uphill  grade.  A  report  from  the  Lawrence 
Berkeley  National  Laboratory  states: 

Under  high  speed  and  acceleration  requirements,  today's  vehicles  are  designed  to 
have  excess  fuel  injected  into  the  engine  cylinder.  This  "enrichment"  of  the 
air/fuel  mixture  leads  to  elevated  CO  and  HC  formation  during  combustion,  with 
no  oxygen  available  for  pollutant  conversion  to  C02  and  water  in  the  catalyst. 
The  result  is  a  temporary  "puff  of  high  tailpipe  CO  and  HC  emissions  (Goodwin 
and  Ross  1996).  In  some  vehicles,  fuel  injection  is  cut  off  during  rapid 
decelerations.  This  can  lead  to  cylinder  misfire  and  a  temporary  "puff  of  high 
HC  emissions  (An  et  al.  1997). 7 

It  is  surprising  that  an  EIR  done  in  San  Francisco  should  omit  to  include  the  important 
consideration  of  hills! 


Third,  the  EIR  failed  to  consider  the  idling  of  cars  looking  for  parking  at  busy  times  as 


described  in  the  traffic  report  produced  by  Wilbur  Smith  Associates.  Idling  vehicles  are 


3 

E-146 


Coments  by  Gina  M.  Solomon,  M.D,  M.P.H.  on  491  Bayshore  Boulevard 


an  additional  source  of  all  of  the  air  pollutants  discussed  in  this  EIR,  yet  they  were  not 
included  at  all  in  the  analyses.  The  United  States  Environmental  Protection  Agency's 
Office  of  Mobile  Sources  has  provided  standard  idling  estimates  for  various  vehicle  types 
and  weather  conditions.8  These  are  readily  available  for  inclusion  in  an  EIR  to  include 
these  in  the  air  quality  impacts  assessment.  The  emissions  of  hydrocarbons  (VOCs)  and 
of  carbon  monoxide  from  idling  passenger  cars  are  a  serious  contributor  to  air  quality  and 
must  be  included  to  fully  capture  the  air  quality  impacts  of  this  project. 


Figure  1:  VOC  Emission  Rates  by  Speed 


25 

20 

8. 

15 

£ 

10 

(5 

5 

0 

i        i  i 

— d 

10 


60 


20  30  40  50 

Vehicle  Speed  (mph) 

——1970    —  1980     ——1990     —-  2000 

Source:  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  Automobile  Emissions:  An  Overview. 
Fact  Sheet  OMS-5.  August  1994. 

Figure  2:  CO(20  degrees  F)  Emission  Rates  by  Speed 

250 


20  30  40  50 

Vehicle  Speed  (mph) 


2000 


 197Q    _„  1980   1990  . 

Source:  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  Automobile  Emissions:  An  Overview. 
Fact  Sheet  OMS-5.  August  1994. 


4 

E-147 


Coments  by  Gina  M.  Solomon,  M.D,  M.P.H.  on  491  Bayshore  Boulevard 


Air  pollution  is  linked  to  asthma 

Asthma  is  more  common  in  the  urbanized  areas  of  industrialized  countries,  and  is 
particularly  common  in  children  living  along  busy  roads  and  trucking  routes.9  A 
population-based  survey  of  more  than  39,000  children  living  in  Italy  found  that  children 
living  on  streets  with  heavy  truck  traffic  were  60  to  90  percent  more  likely  to  have  acute 
and  chronic  respiratory  symptoms  such  as  wheeze  or  phlegm,  and  diagnoses  such  as 
bronchitis  and  pneumonia.10  A  German  study  of  over  3,700  adolescent  students  found 
that  those  living  on  streets  with  'constant'  truck  traffic  were  71  percent  more  likely  to 
report  hay  fever-like  symptoms  and  more  than  twice  as  likely  to  report  wheezing.11 
Studies  have  also  shown  that  the  proximity  of  a  child's  school  to  major  roads  is  linked  to 
asthma,  and  the  severity  of  children's  asthmatic  symptoms  increases  with  proximity  to 
truck  traffic.12  Both  nitrogen  oxides  and  particulate  matter  were  linked  to  a  significant 
decrease  in  lung  function  growth  among  children  living  in  the  Southern  California.13 
Although  some  components  of  outdoor  air  pollution  are  beginning  to  decline  in  the 
United  States,  ozone  and  fine  particle  pollution  (PM2.5)  from  diesel  engine  exhaust  are  an 
ongoing  or  increasing  problem.14 

Numerous  studies  have  demonstrated  that  specific  components  of  air  pollution  are 
associated  with  asthma  attacks.15  For  example,  particulate  air  pollution  has  been  linked  to 
increases  in  emergency  room  visits  for  asthma.16  Nitrogen  dioxide  (NO2)  and  sulfur 
dioxide  are  directly  damaging  to  the  respiratory  system.  Elevated  levels  of  N02  in 

1 7 

outdoor  air  are  associated  with  exacerbations  of  asthma.    Because  these  compounds  are 
airway  irritants,  it  is  not  surprising  that  they  can  trigger  asthma  attacks. 

Air  pollutants  may  act  in  conjunction  with  common  allergens  to  dramatically  increase 
sensitivity  to  pollen  or  other  common  proteins.  In  laboratory  volunteers,  combined 
exposures  to  levels  of  ozone  or  NO2  commonly  found  in  urban  air  and  low  levels  of 
common  allergens  such  as  pollen  results  in  dramatically  enhanced  asthmatic  or  allergic 
reactions.18 19  One  important  study  has  shown  that  exposure  to  common  urban  levels  of 
diesel  exhaust  can  cause  people  to  develop  allergic  reactions  to  proteins  to  which  they  did 
not  previously  react.20  In  this  study,  some  volunteers  were  exposed  to  a  concentration  of 
diesel  exhaust  roughly  equivalent  to  1-3  days  of  breathing  Los  Angeles  air  prior  to 
exposure  to  a  new  allergen.  Subjects  exposed  to  the  new  allergen  alone  did  not  develop 
antibodies  to  this  compound,  whereas  subjects  exposed  to  diesel  exhaust  followed  by  the 
allergen  developed  a  full-blown  allergy. 

Air  pollutants  such  as  ozone  may  do  more  than  trigger  attacks  in  people  with  asthma. 
New  data  suggest  that  ozone  may  actually  cause  asthma  in  previously  healthy  children.  1 
In  a  major  prospective  study  of  school  age  children  living  in  Southern  California, 
children  who  played  outdoor  sports  in  areas  where  ozone  levels  were  high  were 
significantly  more  likely  to  become  asthmatic,  compared  to  athletes  in  less  smoggy  areas. 
Because  ozone  smog  is  an  increasing  problem  in  the  Bay  Area,  and  because  this  proposed 
project  is  projected  to  create  an  unmiti gable  impact  that  includes  increased  ozone 
pollution,  this  project  contributes  to  a  significant  health  concern  for  children  living  in  San 
Francisco. 


5 

E-148 


Coments  by  Gina  M.  Solomon,  M.D,  M.P.H.  on  491  Bayshore  Boulevard 


For  all  of  the  reasons  stated  above,  I  strongly  urge  you  to  reject  the  proposed  Home 
Depot  project  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Thank  you  for  your  consideration  of  these 
comments. 


Gina  M.  Solomon,  M.D,  M.P.H. 


1  http://www.arb.ca.gov/board/ms/ms062002.pdf 

2  Ibid 

3  Cuddihy  RG,  Griffith  WC,  McClellan  RO:  Health  risks  from  light-duty  diesel  vehicles.  Environ  Sci 
Technol  18:14a-21a,  1984. 

4  Pope  CA:  Particulate  air  pollution  as  a  predictor  of  mortality  in  a  prospective  study  of  U.S.  adults.  Am.  J. 
Respir.  Crit.  Care  Med  151:669-674,  1995. 

5  Peters  A,  Dockery  DW,  Muller  JE,  Mittleman  MA:  Increased  particulate  air  pollution  and  the  triggering 
of  myocardial  infarction.  Circulation  103:2810-2815,  2001. 

6  Cal  EPA,  Office  of  Environmental  Health  Hazard  Assessment,  Chemicals  Known  to  the  State  to  Cause 
Cancer  or  Reproductive  Toxicity. 

7 

Wenzel  T,  Singer  BC,  Slott,  R.  Some  Issues  in  the  Statistical  Analysis  of  Vehicle  Emissions. 
Environmental  Energy  Technologies  Division,  Lawrence  Berkeley  National  Laboratory. 
http://eetd.lbl.gov/IEP/PSDC/abstracts/singer2.pdf. 

8  http://www.epa.gov/otaq/consumer/f98014.pdf 

9  Brunekreef  B,  Janssen  N  A,  de  Hartog  J,  Haressema  H,  Knape  M,  van  Vliet  P.  Air  pollution  from  truck 
traffic  and  lung  function  in  children  living  near  motorways.  Epidemiology  8:298-303,  1997. 

10  Ciccone  G,  Fostastiere  F,  Agabati  N,  Biggeri  A,  Bisanti  L,  Chellini  E,  et  al.  Road  traffic  and  adverse 
respiratory  effects  in  children.  SIDRIA  Collaborative  Group.  Occup  Environ  Med  55:  771-778,  1998. 

11  Duhme  H,  Weiland  SK,  Keil  U,  Kraemer  B,  Schmid  M,  Stender  M,  Chambless  L.  The  association 
between  self-reported  symptoms  of  asthma  and  allergic  rhinitis  and  self-reported  traffic  density  on  street  of 
residence  in  adolescents.  Epidemiology  7:  578-582,  1996. 

12  Pekkanen  J,  et  al.  Effects  of  ultrafine  and  fine  particles  in  urban  air  on  peak  expiratory  flow  among 
children  with  asthmatic  symptoms.  Environ  Res  1997;74(l):24-33. 

13  Gauderman  JW,  McConnell  R,  Gilliland  F,  London  S,  Thomas  D,  Avol  E,  Vora  H,  Berhane  K, 
Rappaport  EB,  Lurmann  F:  Association  between  air  pollution  and  lung  function  growth  in  southern 
California  children.  Am  J  Resp  and  Crit  Care  Med  162: 1384-1390,  2000. 

14  U.S.  EPA.  National  Air  Pollutant  Emission  Trends.  Office  of  Air  Quality  Planning  and  Research,  1900- 
1996,  Appendix  A.  Washington  DC:  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  1997. 

15  Mortimer  KM,  Neas  LM,  Dockery  DW,  Redline  S,  Tager  IB:  The  effect  of  air  pollution  on  inner-city 
children  with  asthma.  Eur  Respir  J  19:699-705,  2002. 

16  Norris  G,  Young  Pong  SN,  Koenig  JQ,  Larson  TV,  Sheppard  L,  Stout  JW.  An  association  between  fine 
particles  and  asthma  emergency  department  visits  for  children  in  Seattle.  Environ  Health  Perspect  107:489- 
493, 1999. 

17  Studnicka  M,  Hackl  E,  Pischinger  J,  Fangmeyer  C,  Haschke  N,  Kuhr  J,  Urbanek  R,  Neumann  M, 
Frischer  T.  Traffic-related  N02  and  the  prevalence  of  asthma  and  respiratory  symptoms  in  seven  year-olds. 
Eur  Respir  J  10:2275-2278,  1997. 

18  Jorres  R,  Nowalk  D,  Magnussen  H.  The  effect  of  ozone  exposure  on  allergen  responsiveness  in  subjects 
with  asthma  or  rhinitis.  Am  J  Respir  Crit  Care  Med  153:  56-64,  1996. 

19  Strand  V,  Svartengren  M,  Rak  S,  Barck  C,  Bylin  G.  Repeated  exposure  to  an  ambient  level  of  NO2 
enhances  asthmatic  response  to  a  nonsymptomatic  allergen  dose.  Eur  Respir  J  12:  6-12,  1998. 


6 

E-149 


Coments  by  Gina  M.  Solomon,  M.D,  M.P.H.  on  491  Bayshore  Boulevard 


Diaz-Sanchez  D,  Garcia  MP,  Wang  M,  Jyrala  M,  Saxon  A.  Nasal  challenge  with  diesel  exhaust  particles 
can  induce  sensitization  to  a  neoallergen  in  the  human  mucosa.  J  Allergy  Clin  Immunol  1 04: 1 1 83- 1 1 88, 
1999. 

21  McConnell  R,  Berhane  K,  Gilliland  F,  London  SJ,  Islam  T,  Gauderman  WJ,  et  al.  Asthma  in  exercising 
children  exposed  to  ozone:  a  cohort  study.  Lancet  359:386-391,  2002. 


7 

E-150 


Date: 


"I  I  Lib.] 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

RECEIVED 

JUL  1  5  2003 

PLANNING  DEPT 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


Sincerely 


ignature 

Printed  Name:  

Address: 


E-151 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


RECEIVED 

JUL  0  9  2093 

PLANNING  DEPT 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


CLv\£ 


M 


i7 


l  A  TO 


Tab/65 


Sjg'nature 


Printed  Name: 
Address:  V^S. 


t  e 


E-152 


Royce  Uaughn 


nea"c'>°'- of  Success 


FAX  NO. 


415848455539 


Jul.   10  2003  12: 49PM  P1 


mm  mm 


'  '  'I     I  (  ) I  / 


PAX  (4  )5,  8,l(i^5,fi 

f 


NO  OF  PAGES 


Oncltiiti, 


1(1  **f  iv/..i  <;[„>,, n 


E-153 


Date:  -ay  10,200  3 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  May  19,  2003 


161 


76 


161 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department  ^^iVECy 
1660  Mission  Street  fj&v  i  0 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103  '  1  °  ^  3 

PL*mNGDEPr 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 
Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home 
Depot  project  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the 
approval  of  this  project,  as  it  will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 


Here  is  why  I  am  concerned.  |  ^ig  Box  stores  do  not  belong  alongside  residential 
neighborhoods  -  not  in  your  neighborhood,   and  not  in  mine. 

The  Home  Depot  store  proposed  for  Bayshore  Blvd.   is  inches  from  Bernal 
Heights.     Cortland  Ave. ,     Bernal ' s  main  street,  would  in  effect,   be  the 
entrance  to  Home  Depot      I  am  aware  that  Bayshore  is  ?aoned  for 
commerical/industrial  purposes  (a  designation  made  well  before  the  advent 
of  big  box  stores) .     My  objection  is  not  to  appropriate  commercial  enter- 
prises, but  is  rather  a  matter  of  scale' 


Bernal  Heights  is  densely  populated  and  suffers  traffic  congestion,  so 
much  so  that  a  Traffic  Calming  committee  (sponsored,   I  believe,  by  DPW) 
has  been  addressing  this  problem  for  ayear  or  more.     Cortland  Avenue  is 
two  narrow  lanes,   often  blocked  by  trucks,  double  parkers,   etc  This 
street  cannot  absorb  the  estimated  1200  cars  per  hour  on  their  way  to 
Home  Depot      Drivers  will  inevitably  try  to  use  side  streets,  but  in 
this  case,  to  no  avail.     Bernal  streets  are  very  narrow  and  in  many  cases 
two  cars  cannot  pass  -  someone  has  to  backup  for  pull  over-     There  will 
be  total  gridlock  on  Cortland.     To  make  matters  worse  Home  Depot  shoppers 
typically  will  drive  their  largest  and  most  polluting  vehicles,   i  e  SliVs 
and  trucks.     Bernal  Heights  will  be  suffocated.     So  much  for  Traffic 
Calming! 


Bernal  Heights  is  a  thriving  neighborhood,  families  with  small  children 
and  many  elderly  people.     Funnelling  deadly  polluting  traffic  through 

Sincerely,  -  over  - 

Signature 

Printed  Name:  J^.^™^ 


WWF 

Address :  


®San  Francisco,  CA  94110 


E-154 


our  community  would  "be  cruel  and  senseless,  Bernal  Heights'  residents 
deserve  better  from  the  Planning  Commission. 

Two  questions:  1«  I  assume  the  purpose  of  the  Planning  Commission  is  to 
improve  the  quality  of  life  in  San  Francisco*  Has  there  been  a  clamor 
throughout  the  city  for  a  Home  Depot  closer  than  Colma? 

2.  The  purpose  of  Big  Box  stores  is  to  attract  LARGE  CROWDS.  I  want 
to  know  how  this  will  benefit  the  community  that  lives  next  door,  i  e 
Bernal  Heights? 


E-155 


Date: 


f-  OS 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  May  19,  2003 

MAY  13  2.G3 
PyWiNG  dept 


Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home 
Depot  project  at  491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the 
approval  of  this  project,  as  it  will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


e>v\ 


-teste* 


Sincerely, 


Signature 

Printed  Name:      cTeflttrfeg.  U&<2-£  

Address:  llH   B^pih  Ave  -  gj|Lg 


E-156 


JUL-09-03    08:01     AM       PATRICIA  WAYMAN 


415    821  3483 

RCCBVED 

JUL  0  9  2MB 

PLANNING  DEPT 


P  .  0  1 


164 


"OA 


E-157 


Linda  Weiner 
72  Gates  St., 

San  Francisco  CA  94110  RECEIVED 

JUL  1  0  2^3 

PLANNING  DEPT 

July  7,  2003 


Paul  Maltzer 

Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  Air  Quality  Concerns  for  Home  Depot,  Bernal  Heights 
Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


I  write  this  letter  both  as  a  33-year  resident  of  Bernal  Heights  and  as  the  Director  of  Air  Quality  Advocacy  for 
the  American  Lung  Association  of  San  Francisco  &  San  Mateo  Counties.  I  often  testify  on  air  quality  issues 
in  the  Bay  Area,  and  am  currently  funded  by  the  San  Francisco  Foundation  to  coordinate  the  Bay  Area  Clean 
Air  Task  Force,  comprised  of  many  credible  well-known  environmental  organizations. 


i  am  very  concerned  about  the  possible  building  of  a  Home  Depot  site  at  Bayshore  and  Cortland.  This  is  not  a 
NIMBY  reaction,  but  a  reaction  based  on  history  and  fact.  In  other  words,  I  am  not  here  to  impede  progress, 
but  to  throw  some  science  and  commons  sense  into  the  mix. 


Since  I  have  lived  in  Bernal  Heights  for  so  long,  I  have  seen  this  small  community  change  dramatically  (as  of 
course,  have  other-neighborhoods  in  the  city).  Clearly,  traffic  is  one  of  the  major  changes.  At  one  time,  you 
could  throw  a  bowling  ball  down  Cortland  and  not  hit  anything;  now,  however,  there  is  a  great  deal  of  traffic. 
Building  a  huge  business  such  as  Home  Depot,  at  the  end  of  Cortland,  would  increase  traffic  tremendously, 
and  eliminate  one  of  the  reasons  people  move  to  Bernal  Heights  -  to  live  in  a  quiet  uncongested 
neighborhood.  It's  clear  to  anyone  that  Cortland,  from  Mission  to  Bayshore,  would  be  a  major  artery  to  get  to 
Home  Depot. 


But  now  to  the  science.  Tne  proposed  project  will  significantly  increase  regional  ozone  pollution  in  a  non- 
attamment  area.  The  EIR  found  that  the  project  would  be  responsible  for  an  estimated  84.5  lbs.  per  day  of 
reactive  organic  gases,  meaning  that  there  would  be  a  "significant  immitigable  impact"  on  air  quality.  This 
also  translates  into  precursors  for  ozone  smog,  and  this  is  unacceptable. 


The  EIR  also  fails  to  adequately  address  the  emissions  of particulate  matter  (PM),  not  taking  into  account 
the  new  standards  related  to  this  pollutant.  The  California  Air  Resources  Board  has  lowered  the  acceptable 
level  from  PM  10  to  PM  2.5.  The  Bay  Area  Air  Quality  Management  District  has  not  yet  revised  their 
guidelines,  but,  obviously,  will  need  to  do  so.  San  Francisco  already  exceeds  this  level.  And,  more 
importantly,  particulate  matter  has  been  directly  linked  to  asthma,  contributing  to  the  astonishing  increase  in 
the  disease. 


E-158 


The  EIR  clearly  underestimates  the  air  quality  impacts  on  the  neighborhood  by  not  correctly  calculating 
air  pollution  impacts  from  traffic.  It  assumes  all  vehicles  travel  at  a  constant  25  miles  per  hr.,  but  there  will 
be  (and  there  is  now)  stop-and-go  traffic  from  stop  signs  and  heavy  traffic,  to  say  nothing  of  eventual  traffic 
lights.  In  addition,  vehicles  coming  up  Bernal  hill  from  Mission,  a  steep  climb,  will  have  substantial  more 
emissions  when  under  a  heavier  load.  And  cars  looking  for  parking  (which  happens  now)  often  idle  while 
looking  for  space,  thereby  emitting  more  pollutants.  More  alarming  is  the  possibility  of  this  site  on  Bayshore 
becoming  the  first  of  many,  as  has  been  indicated.  Such  close  proximity  to  a  residential  neighborhood  and 
school  is  frightening. 


The  effect  of  all  this  traffic  pollution  on  public  health  is  well  documented,  both  nationally  and 
internationally.  An  international  study,  implemented  on  every  continent,  indicated  that,  no  matter  what  the 
economic  situation,  no  matter  the  variances  in  ethnicity  and  health  care  system,  that  as  ozone  levels  increase, 
there  is  a  corresponding  increase  in  hospitalizations  and  death  due  to  respiratory  problems. 

Closer  to  home,  and  in  relation  to  children,  the  results  of  the  recent  Southern  California  Children's  Health 
Study,  the  most  extensive  study  to  date  regarding  air  pollution  and  children's  health,  has  shown  that,  over 
time,  the  growth  and  development  of  the  lungs  is  compromised  in  children  living  in  areas  of  high  pollution. 
These  kids'  lungs  simply  do  not  grow  to  the  appropriate  size  for  their  bodies.  And  in  another  recent  10-year 
study,  a  new  and  startling  fact  revealed  that  smog  not  only  triggers  asthma  attacks,  but  also  can  actually 
CAUSE  children  to  acquire  asthma  in  the  first  place.  Children  are  particularly  vulnerable  to  the  effects  of 
breathing  polluted  air  because  their  lungs  are  still  developing,  and  they  are  more  active,  breathing  in  more  air 
than  adults.  Because  ozone  smog  is  an  increasing  problem  in  the  Bay  area,  and  because  this  proposed  project 
is  documented  to  create  an  "unmitigable  impact"  that  includes  ozone  pollution,  building  of  the  Home  Depot 
would  contribute  to  a  significant  health  concern  for  children  living  in  Bernal  Heights  and  surrounding 
neighborhoods. 

Finally,  the  impact  of  particulate  matter  must  again  be  emphasized.  These  tiny  particles  emitted  from  vehicle 
exhaust  are  among  the  most  harmful  of  all  air  pollutants.  When  inhaled,  these  tiny  particles  can  lodge  deep  in 
the  lungs,  impair  lung  function,  and  exacerbate  bronchitis,  emphysema  and  asthma.  Particulate  air  pollution 
has  been  directly  linked  to  increases  in  emergency  room  visits  for  asthma.  Asthma  itself  has  been 
documented  to  be  particularly  common  in  children  living  along  busy  roads,  which  Cortland  will 
undoubtedly  become  if  Home  Depot  is  built. 

In  conclusion,  this  project  makes  no  sense,  from  an  air  quality  and  public  health  viewpoint,  to  say  nothing  of 
quality  of  life  in  the  quiet  neighborhood  of  Bernal  Heights.  In  essence,  is  it  simply  unacceptable  to  place  a 
huge  retail  outlet  next  to  a  residential  neighborhood.  It  belongs  in  a  shopping  center,  away  from  where  folks 


live.  I  strongly  urge  you  to  reject  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  on  Bayshore  Blvd.  Thank  you 


E-159 


114  Nevada  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94110 
9  July  2003 


Paul  Meltzer 

Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street,  Suite  500 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

Re:     No  Big-Box  Home  Depot  on  Bayshore 

Dear  Sirs  and  Madams: 


I  write  as  a  resident  of  the  area  contiguous  to  the  Bayshore  corridor,  to  oppose  the 
Big-Box  Home  Depot  currently  planned  for  the  corner  of  Bayshore  and  Cortland. 


As  I  have  previously  expressed  to  the  Planning  Deparment,  neither  I  nor  any  of  the 
other  residents  of  the  contiguous  Bernal  Heights  area  were  consulted  before  the 
current  planning  guidelines  for  that  area  were  developed,  or  before  the  Home  Depot 
project  was  advanced  to  this  stage  in  the  planning  process.  I  have  looked  at  the 
Planning  Department  studies  that  paved  the  way  for  big-box  stores  on  Bayshore,  and 
noted  that  Bernal  Heights  is  shown  --  if  at  all  —  as  some  sketchy  terra  incognita  on  the 
periphery  of  the  Department's  maps.  The  impact  of  the  planned  growth  on  the  Bernal 
community  is  nowhere  considered. 


Yet  Bernal  would  be  most  immediately  impacted  by  the  planned  development  of  a 
Home  Depot.  The  entrance  to  a  new  parking  structure,  twice  as  high  as  anything 
previously  on  the  site,  will  be  right  at  the  Cortland/Bayshore  intersection.  (Compare 
the  old  Goodman's  and  Whole  Earth  stores,  which  distributed  parking  down  the  length 
of  that  entire  block.)  In  addition  to  this  mammoth  parking  structure,  the  planned  Home 
Depot  will  have  retail  floor  space  150%  of  the  combined  totals  of  the  old  Goodman's 
and  Whole  Earth  stores.  This  is  completely  out  of  scale.  And  it  is  located  not  in  the 
center  of  the  Bayshore  industrial  area,  but  right  at  the  gateway  to  Bernal.  It  cannot 
help  but  severely  and  negatively  impact  Bernal  Heights.  I  believe  that  the  draft  EIR 
suggests  what  the  reality  will  be:  a  permanent  traffic  jam  at  the  Cortland/Bayshore 
entrance  to  Bernal;  and  traffic  clogging-to-asphyxiation  on  the  still  nascent  Cortland 
commercial  strip,  just  as  it  is  receiving  recognition  in  national  magazines  like  Sunset. 
(There  is  already  a  serious  dearth  of  parking  there.) 

Moreover,  big  box  stores  kill.  They  not  only  kill  neighborhood  businesses,  they  kill  the 
psychological  environment  and  sense  of  community  for  everyone  involved.  One  need 
only  go  to  Colma  -  Where's  the  village  there?  where's  the  human-scale?    I  see  only 
huge  traffic  jams  on  the  offramps  leading  to  those  big-box  shopping  centers. 


JUL  1 4  20CS3 

PLANNING  DEPT 


E-160 


SF  Planning  Department 
July  9,  2003 
Page  2 


Fifteen  to  twenty  years  ago,  many  of  us  took  a  gamble  on  Bernal,  moving  to  an  area 
where  crack  dealers  were  still  shooting  each  other  on  Cortland  Street.  By  dint  of 
hard-work  and  community  organizing,  we  have  helped  revitalize  this  neighborhood.  I 
see  the  planned  Home  Depot  as  a  huge  step  in  the  wrong  direction,  and  I  call  on 
other  Bernal  residents  and  groups  to  oppose  it. 


Respectfully  yours, 
Chris  Witteman 


cc:      Bernal  Merchants 

Terry  Milne,  Bernal  Heights  East  Slope  Design  Review  Board 
Bernal  Heights  Infrastructure  Improvement  Committee 


68 


69 


148 


67 


Date:  July  ^  "*®D 3  Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

Mr.  Paul  Maltzer  RfCBVE© 
Environmental  Review  Officer  _ 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department  JUL  i  ^  *Sw3 
1 660  Mission  Street  ^  U&BNG  DEPT 

San  Francisco,  C A  94103  Ft**** 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned.  -  . 

jjjUi,  ooWe  1U   ft  aiWi^  «tyl.W*X  TBL  T     ,  p-"^- 


125 


ni/\ar£  nuy1"" '           '  ,  ,    .   '  / 


T  ouu  c^twW  1V*  ?F  ^  tfe^  c^  w 
157|  >         ^  wot  f¥Bmi^  )ote  ^  /o^         awd  iW  <Wf  jMMck 

^ncerely,  ^       ~X     fW  etuyfcy^  ^/fyV,^  u#U^_  £r  Cfdffio&dr  W^<^7 
A^Ar,  i  r  .     \  A  AW). 


Signature 

Printed  Name:     \A<XtCa  jgjjn^  

Address:  <0LlB)  feu^'H^  gL    S<^"  ^{ ' 0 


E-162 


Date.^ 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


a, 

Hi 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


113 
125 


Sincei 


Printed  Name: 


Address:     J?tf%       (^7^S>  S/~ 


E-163 


Date: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 

San  Francisco  Planning  Department  r 

1660  Mission  Street   ^  "<-CE!VED 

San  Francisco,  CA  94103  jyj    q  ^  £'^3 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS  PLANNING  DEPT 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 

I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 

Here  is  why  I  am  concerned.  /  ,       j      a.JbY  trli  £ 


Sincerely^ 


4  / 
f4y 


Signature' 

Printed  Name:      ^     L^//        ^  c  


E-164 


Date: 


Mr.  Paul  Maltzer 
Environmental  Review  Officer 
San  Francisco  Planning  Department 
1660  Mission  Street 
San  Francisco,  CA  94103 

RE:  EIR  PUBLIC  COMMENTS 

Dear  Mr.  Maltzer: 


Public  Comment  Deadline:  July  10th,  2003 

RECEIVED 

JUL  0  9  2003 

PLANNING  DEPT 


I  am  writing  to  comment  on  the  draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  for  the  proposed  Home  Depot  project  at 
491  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  am  a  Bernal  Heights  resident,  and  I  oppose  the  approval  of  this  project,  as  it 
will  have  irreversible  negative  impacts  on  my  neighborhood. 


Here  is  why  I  am  concerned. 


Tu  ^-V^r^  -^-O 


.    I  4  $  S 


tro  r    ^  v  1  L^«) 


4 1 


7 


'7 


A 


J  €  <S  <"  |V  L 


- 1  L 


Sin^rely^/ 


Signa'ture  vS 


Printed  Name 

2  i1 


Address: 


E-165 


Appendix  F 


Transcript  of  Draft  EIR  Public  Hearing 

and  Index  of  Speakers 


I 
I 
p 
I 
I 
I 

p 
p 
p 
■ 

p 


DRAFT  EIR  PUBLIC  HEARING  TRANSCRIPT 
INDEX  OF  SPEAKER  NAMES 


The  following  index  identifies  the  page  and  line  on  which  a  speaker's  name  appears. 


Abrams,  Charles  69:15,17 

Allison,  Jim  96:23,24,24 

Antonini,  Michael  2:5  41:10  43:16 
46:22  117:14  117:15 

Bach,  Eve  36:20,22 

Beinart,  Amy  51:8,9,9 

Bell,  Shelley  Bradford  2:5  3:11 
4:21  5:5  7:21  9:11  10:2  12:4  13:8 
15:22  17:16  18:23  19:9  20:6  22:4 
23:6  26:4  27:7,16  28:7  29:10 
30:10  31:13  32:20  34:2 
35:15,18,22  36:17  38:15  49:9 
51:7  52:17  54:2  56:13  57:8  58:6 
60:7  62:3  63:20  65:7  68:7  72:8 
78:22  82:13  84:25  96:23  97:24 
100:8  104:18  108:15  110:14 
116:14  117:14,22  119:21  121:13 
122:11  123:3  124:19  128:19 
128:22 

Berkowitz,  Judy  34:3  35:16 
35:17,19,23 

Boyd,  Rev.  Edgar  2:6  121:13,14 
122:13 

Bustos,  Jorge  93:7,8 

Caldwell,  Rob  18:24  19:10  19:11,11 

75:7 

Calico,  Aida  20:7,8,8 
Clary,  Charles  103:7,12 
Cook,  Linda  54:3  57:8,10,10 
Cruz,  Larry  36:18  38:16,17,19 
Daniel,  Brent  58:8  60:7,8,11 
Daniel,  John  65:8,10,11 
Dean,  Larry  68:7,8,9 
DeGarmo,  John  26:4,6,8 


Dodt,  Daniel  104:18,20,21 

Feldstein,  Lisa  2:4  24:14  116:19,20 
117:8 

Gerharter,  Rick  84:25  85:2,3 

Gregmore,  David  28:8,8 

Grigg,  BiBi  92:3,3 

Hayes,  John  7:23  12:8,8 

Heacock,  Robert  23:7,8,8 

Hestor,  Sue  112:13,13 

Hoffman,  Jeff  5:8,9,10 

Holloway,  Douglas  62:3,4,5 

Hughes,  Kevin  2:3  123:5,6 

Jusino  ,  Dwayne  15:23  17:16 
17:18,18 

Jusino,  Terezina  17:17  18:24,25 
19:1 

Kesel,  Rachel  72:9  76:22,23 

King,  Angelo  31:14,15,19 

Kyle,  Amy  54:2,4,4 

Kyle,  Barbara  41:11  43:17  46:23, 
24,25 

Lee,  Bill  2:4,6  119:21,22 
Levy,  Deborah  72:8,10,11 
Liggett,,  Rosanne  57:9  58:7,9,10 
Linale,  Liz  54:3  56:13,14,14 
Lynch,  Mark  85:1  87:11,11,20 
Maloney,  Mollie  95:8,8 
Mardeson,  Ingred  97:24,25  98:1 
Massey,  Katherine  108:15,18,19 


Mendoza,  Cesar  27:16,18,19 

Miller,  Michael  7:23  10:9,10 

Mokry,  Gretchen  63:20,21,21 

Mokry,  Robert  52:18,19 

Montgomery,  Chris  Ellen  114:20 
114:23 

Morgan,  Ron  38:15  41:1 1 
43:17,19,21  44:2 

Muniz,  Laurel  31:14  32:20,22  32:23 

Nieto,  Bill  72:9  74:15,16 

Norman,  Al  30:10,12,12 

O'Donoghue,  Joe  13:9  15:22,24,24 

Patton,  Eloise  86:12,13 

Payne,  Gil  100:9,11 

Pecoro,  Joe  34:2,4,4 

Recio,  Roy  49:11,12,12 

Rutledge,  Rick  23:7  25:5,6 

Saeed,  Ali  27:10,11 

Shelton,  Rick  107:3,3 

Shimko,  Anna  29:12,13,15 

Smook,  Joseph  78:22,24 

Solomon,  Gina  89:17,18 

St.  Denny,  Steve  13:9,10,11 

Steinberg,  Dory  78:23  82:14  82:15 

Tam,  James  20:7  22:4,5,6 

Townsend,  Rev.  Arnold  108:17 

Vela,  Mauricio  41:10,12 

Vestel,  Leora  7:22,24,25 

Witteman,  Chris  78:23  80:16  80:17 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./ 196  Loomis  Street 


F-1 


2001.0062E  491  Bayshore  Blvd./l 96  Loomis  Street 


July  10,  2003 


r  ~ 

Page  1 

1 
2 

3  BEFORE   THE    PLANNING  COMMISSION 

4  CITY  AND   COUNTY   OF    SAN  FRANCISCO 

5   oOo  

6 

7  In   re  :  ) 

8  491   Bayshore   Boulevard  ) 
HOME   DEPOT    PROJECT  ) 

9  ) 

10  ) 

11 

12 

13  HEARING   ON   ENVIRONMENTAL    IMPACT  REPORT 


Thursday,    July   10,  2003 


14 

15 
16 
17 
18 

City  Hall,    Room  400 
19  San  Francisco,  California 

2  0 
21 
22 
23 

Reported  by: 

24  GEORGE  SCHUMER,  CSR  3326  2001-336186 
25 

LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-3 


July  10,  2003 


Page  2 


9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


INDEX 

BEFORE  COMMISSIONERS: 

Kevin  Hughes 
Lisa  Feldstein 
William  Lee  - 
Michael  Antonini 
Shelley  Bradford  Bell 
Sue  Lee 
Edgar  Boyd 

ALSO  ON  DAIS: 

Gerald  G.  Green,  Director  of  Planning 
Lawrence  B.  Badiner,  Zoning  Administrator 


Page  4 


1  draft  EIR  as  appropriate. 

2  All  the  comments  made  today  will  be 

3  transcribed  by  a  court  reporter.  We  ask  that 

4  comments  be  made  slowly  and  clearly  for  the 

5  reporter.  We  also  ask  that  you  state  your  name  and 

6  your  address,  so  a  copy  of  the  comments  and 

7  responses  can  be  mailed  to  you  once  it  is  complete. 

8  After  we  hear  comments  from  the  general 

9  public,  we  will  also  take  comments  on  the  draft  EIR 

1 0  from  the  Commissioners.  Lastly,  I  want  to  point  out 

1 1  that  the  draft  EIR  was  advertised  and  released  for 

12  public  comment  beginning  on  March  29,  2003,  and 

13  Commissioners  continued  the  first  public  hearing  to 

14  July  10. 

15  As  a  result,  the  official  comment  period 

1 6  was  also  extended,  and  written  comments  will  be 

17  extended  at  our  office  until  5:00  p.m.,  July  11. 

1 8  That  concludes  my  presentation.  I  will 

1 9  respectfully  ask  the  public  comment  period  —  the 

20  public  hearing  for  the  draft  EIR  --  be  open. 

21  PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you  everyone,  and 

22  thank  you  for  your  patience.  This  is  a  comment  on 

23  the  draft  EIR  and  not  the  project  —  the  draft  EIR. 

24  I  will  give  three  minutes,  and  I  will  call  several 

25  people  at  one  time,  and  hopefully  they  are  still 


Page  3 

1 

2 

3  THURSDAY,  JULY  10,2003  5:01  P.M. 

4  PROCEEDINGS 

5  SECRETARY  LINDA  AVERY:  Commissioners, 

6  you  are  now  on  Item  10;  we're  going  back  to  Item  10. 

7  This  is  Case  200 1 .0062E,  49 1  Bayshore  Boulevard,  the 

8  Home  Depot  project.  This  is  a  public  hearing  on  the 

9  draft  environmental  impact  report. 

10  MS.  TAMMY  CHAN:  Good  afternoon, 

1 1  President  Bell  and  the  rest  of  the  Commission.  I'm 

1 2  Tammy  Chan,  on  the  department  staff.  I'm  before  you 

1 3  for  this  hearing  to  receive  comments  from  the  public 

1 4  and  from  the  commissioners  on  the  draft  EIR  for  the 

1 5  Home  Depot  project  at  49 1  Bayshore  Boulevard. 

1 6  Comments  today  shall  be  focused  on 

1 7  adequacy  and  accuracy  of  information  contained  in 

1 8  the  draft  EIR.  There  will  be  no  decisions  today  to 

19  approve  or  disapprove  the  project.  That  hearing 

20  will  not  occur  until  the  final  EIR  is  certified. 

2 1  Staff  is  not  here  today  to  answer 

22  questions  that  are  raised.  Comments  will  be 

23  transcribed  and  responded  to  in  writing  in  a 

24  comments-and-response  document,  which  will  respond 

25  to  all  comments  received,  and  make  revisions  to  the 


Page  5 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


here. 

SECRETARY  AVERY:  It  is  5:00;  we  have 
lost  our  overflow  room.  People  should  be  moving 
back. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  I'll  just  keep  calling 
cards  and  mention  people,  in  case  they  are  sitting 
in  the  other  room.  I  call  Lisa  Sibley,  Bob  Pritikin 
or  Jeff  Hoffman. 

MR.  JEFF  HOFFMAN:  My  name  is  Jeff 
Hoffman;  my  address  is  132-B  Coleridge  in  San 
Francisco. 

I  have  already  responded  to  the  draft  EIR 
in  writing,  and  I  won't  reiterate  those  comments, 
except  just  generally  to  say  thatjl  strongly  and 


unequivocally  am  opposed  tothis  projectjandjl  do 
not  believe  the  draft  EIR  properly  evaluated  the 
effects  of  air  pollution  and  noise  in  a  residential 
and  very  small  business  district  along  Cortland 
Avenue;  the  delays  and  dangers  to  pedestrians  that 
may  be  caused  by  all  the  extra  traffic  along 
Cortland  Avenue,  and  the  extra  traffic  on  Cortland 
Avenue  that  would  make  it  hard  for  residents  to  get 
around. 

And  also,  I  add  that  the  extra  traffic  is 
going  to  be  on  the  side  streets  around,  because 


163 

125 
126 

70 


2  (Pages  2  to  5) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-4 


July  10,  2003 


Page  6 


70 


3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 
9 

10 

163 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

Cortland  is  going  to  be  so  backed  up  by  this  project 
—  if  it  happens. 

However,  I  would  like  to  make  a  couple  of 
general  points  today.  The  first  thing  I  would  like 
to  say  is  I  object  to  this  hearing  in  general, 


because  of  the  size  of  this  room.  You  commissioners 
either  knew,  or  should  have  known,  that  there  were 
going  to  be  a  lot  of  people  here,  and  to  shove 
people  into  overflow  rooms  to  me  is  not  appropriate. 
Those  rooms  are  for  emergencies,  when  you  had  no  way 
to  know  there  are  going  to  be  a  lot  of  people  here. 
You  should  have  gotten  a  bigger  room,  for  people  to 
sit  here,  and  not  be  forced  to  go  to  another  room 
and  watch  the  hearing  on  television. 

At  any  rate,  the  general  objections  to 
the  project  are  that  many,  if  not  most  of  us  who 
live  in  the  city,  don't  want  big-box  stores  like 
Home  Depot  or  Wal-Mart,  and  I  don't  understand  that 
the  Commission  is  looking  at  making  the  entire 
Bayshore  a  big-box  district.  This  would  totally 
change  the  character  of  that  part  of  the  city,  if 
not  the  city  as  a  whole.  Many,  if  not  most  of  us 
want  to  shop  at  locally  owned  small  businesses,  not 
big  out-of-town  corporations. 

Secondly,  I  think  it  is  inappropriate  for 


Page  8 


1  just  off  Cesar  Chavez  and  Potrero  avenues,  a  short 

2  walk  from  the  proposed  Home  Depot  site.  I  am  part 

3  of  the  local  Playground  Neighborhood  Association, 

4  and  on  the  steering  committees  of  Mission  Possible 

5  and  the  Neighborhood  Parks  Council.}  I  am  here  to 

6  give  my  enthusiastic  endorsement  for  the  EIR. 

7  As  avid  do-it-yourselfers,  my  husband  and 

8  I  used  to  frequent  Goodman's,  and  we  are  very  sorry 

9  to  see  it  close.  For  the  last  few  years  we  have 

10  traveled  to  the  Home  Depot  in  Colma  once;  sometime: 

1 1  two  or  three  times  a  week.  We  hate  the  fact  that 

1 2  our  sales  tax  from  our  purchases  go  to  another 

13  community,  a  community  full  of  dead  people,  yet. 

1 4  Having  to  travel  so  far  for  our  home 

1 5  improvement  needs  has  been  ridiculous,  but  what  has 

16  been  even  worse  is  watching  that  area  of  Bayshore 

17  sit  fallow.  My  only  question  is,  why  is  it  taking 

1 8  so  long  to  replace  one  home  store  with  another 

1 9  bigger  and  better  home  store? 

20  San  Francisco  desperately  needs  the  jobs, 

2 1  revenue  and  utility  that  a  Home  Depot  will  bring. 

22  The  Home  Depot  will  be  located  in  an  ideal 

23  industrial  location,  close  to  the  freeway  on  ramps 

24  and  off  ramps. 

25  The  proposal  asks  for  plenty  of  parking, 


164 


163 


4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  7 


Page  9 


a  city  like  San  Francisco  to  have  a  big-box  project 
like  this,  because  it  does  so  much  destruction  to  a 
residential  neighborhood  that  it  is  near.  To  the 
extent  that  these  things  are  appropriate  at  all  — 
which  is  questionable  --  but  to  the  extent  that  they 
are,  they  are  appropriate  for  suburban  areas,  where 
access  is  mainly  off  of  the  highway,  and  people 
going  to  and  from  them  don't  disturb  anyplace, 
except  maybe  a  traffic  jam  on  the  highway. 

But  there  are  no  residences  around  them, 
and  if  there  is  extra  air  pollution  or  traffic  it  is 
along  the  highway,  and  not  on  residential  streets 
where  people  are  walking,  and  where  people  are 
living,  or  a  small  shopping  district  like  Cortland 
Avenue,  where  many  of  us,  including  myself,  walk  to 
\  to  go  shopping. 

Those  are  my  objections.  I  also  want  to 
say,  just  for  the  record  to  be  honest,  I  am  an 
attorney,  but  I  am  not  representing  anyone  at  this 
hearing.  I  am  just  speaking  for  myself.  Thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you.  Mr.  Pritikin 
or  Lisa  Sibley  return?  If  not,  I  have  Leora  Vestel, 
and  Michael  Miller,  and  then  John  Hayes. 

MS.  LEORA  VESTEL:  Good  afternoon, 
Commissioners.  My  name  is  Leora  Vestel,  and  I  live 


1  and  it  provides  a  low-cost  alternative  that  is 

2  accessible  by  public  transportation,  so  what  is  the 

3  problem?  The  problem  is  that  this  is  San  Francisco, 

4  so  even  the  most  logical  and  beneficial  proposals 

5  must  be  demonized. 

6  Some  say  Home  Depot  will  create  endless 

7  traffic  snarls,  and  ruin  neighborhood  character,  and 

8  one  street  in  particular  will  be  overrun  with 

9  traffic.  I  remember  hearing  such  things  about 

10  another  project  that  faced  intense  opposition,  Pac 

1 1  Bell  Park,  but  today  you  are  hard-pressed  to  find 

12  someone  with  anything  bad  to  say  about  it.  The 

1 3  projections  about  traffic  hell  just  never 

14  materialized,  and  instead,  we  have  a  beautiful, 

15  world-class  facility,  that  catalyzed  change  in  a 

1 6  once-sterile  area  of  the  city. 

1 7  A  Home  Depot,  a  small  project  by 

1 8  comparison,  will  also  be  a  catalyst  for  positive 

19  change  for  Bay  View/Hunters  Point,  so  please  give 

20  this  excellent  project  your  support.  Do  so,  and 

2 1  we'll  help  to  create  new  jobs  and  vitality,  while 

22  generating  public  revenue  for  desperately  needed 

23  programs. 

24  We  cannot  let  fantastical,  self-serving 

25  predictions,  or  disdain  for  all  things  corporate 


164 


3  (Pages  6  to  9) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-5 


July  10,2003 


Page  10 

164  determine  the  course  of  this  city.  jThank  you. 

2  1  PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you.  Let's 

3  remember  to  focus  on  the  D-EIR. 

4  SECRETARY  AVERY:  Before  we  have  the  next 

5  speaker:  I  know  that  the  room  is  crowded.  Can  you 

6  move  over  to  the  other  side  of  the  room,  so  you 

7  don't  block  the  doorway,  causing  a  fire  hazard? 

8  Thank  you. 

9  MR.  MICHAEL  MILLER:  My  name  is  Michael 

1 0  Miller.  I  have  lived  within  blocks  -  a  few  blocks 

11  of  the  proposed  site  for  the  Home  Depot  --  for  35 

1 2  years.  I  am  here  to  support  it  very,  very  strongly. 

13  '  I  think  it  would  be -- well,  first  of  all,  that  area 

14  has  become  kind  of  a  deteriorating  war  zone,  and  if 
i  >r  a  you  don't  believe  me,  drive  around  there.  I  mean 

A  "  ■  for  blocks  and  blocks  and  blocks.  I  think  we're 

1 7  very  fortunate  to  have  Home  Depot  want  to  put 

1 8  something  there. 

19  I'm  not  a  professional;  I  don't  represent 

20  anybody;  I'm  not  going  to  make  any  money  by  being 

21  here.  I  do  belong  to  the  Northwest  Bemal  Heights 

22  Association,  which  is  a  neighborhood  association 

23  that  is  run  and  governed  by  the  people  who  actually 

24  live  there,  not  by  anybody  else  who  is  paid. 

25  Anyway,  the  thing  I  hear  a  lot  about  is 


Page  12 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


area.  And  I  look  forward  to  seeing  it  happen;  I 

look  forward  to  having  the  Home  Depot  there.  

Thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Just  a  word  of  caution. 
We're  talking  about  the  D-EIR,  and  I'm  going  to 
start  interrupting  speakers  who  discuss  the  project, 
but  do  not  focus  on  the  D-EIR. 

MR.  JOHN  HAYES:  My  name  is  John  Hayes. 
I  live  at  362  Mullen  Avenue  in  Bemal  Heights.  I'm 
here  to  address  two  aspects  of  the  proposal  in  terms 
of  the  D-EIR.  

One  J I  think  the  D-EIR  severely 
underestimates  the  impact  traffic  will  have  on 
Cortland  Avenue.  It  notes  that  all  the  adjacent 
freeway  exits  are  going  to  be  crowded.  One  of  the 
things  is  when  people  are  crowded,  people  will  go 
out  of  their  way.  Traffic  flows  just  like  water. 
You  can  expect  people  are  going  to  be  going  through 
Bernal  Heights  on  Cortland,  and  other  ways  as  well. 


164 


The  other  thing  this  fails  to  do  is 
address  the  serious  earthquake  danger  if  approved  at 
this  facility.  This  area  that  Home  Depot  is 
proposed  for  is  built  on  fill,  so  I  went  to  the  web 
and  looked  up  what  ABAY  said  about  the  materials  in 
this  particular  area.  This  shaking  amplification 


67 


131 


164 

9\ 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

Page  1 1 


Page  13 


how  Cortland  is  going  to  be  inundated  with  cars.  I 
think  if  one  person  tries  to  do  that  once,  who 
doesn't  live  in  Bemal  Heights,  and  lives  somewhere 
else  other  than  Bemal  Heights,  they  will  only  do  it 
once.  Kind  of  a  ridiculous  way  to  try  to  get  to  any 
place  anywhere  except  Bemal  Heights,  going  from 
Bayshore  to  Cortland  to  Mission.  Once  you  get  to 
Mission,  where  are  you  going  to  go?  You  can't  get 
anywhere  very  easily.  So  I  can't  imagine  a  lot  of 
traffic  because  of  this. 

There's  a  lot  of  buzz  words  being  used: 
"box  businesses";  "traffic  this";  "traffic  that"  — 
and  my  suspicion  is  people  who  come  up  with  the 
facts  are  really  coming  up  with  the  facts  as  they 
were  made  to  come  up  with  facts. 

I  think  it  is  something  that  would  be 
very  beneficial  to  the  city:  the  tax;  the 
employment.  And  the  truth  is,  I'm  a  liberal 
Democrat.  We  have  demonized  business  progress  so 
much  in  the  city  that  it  is  absurd.  I  mean  it  is 
just  a  lot  of  nonsense.  Just  a  lot  of  —  always 
politicking  that  happens,  and  good  things  just  don't 
get  done. 

I  think  we're  very  lucky  that  Home  Depot 
wants  to  come  here.  I  think  it  will  improve  that 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


quality  of  the  ground  where  Home  Depot  is  being 
built  is  extremely  high.  It  is  the  worst  area  in 
San  Francisco  for  this. 

I  would  not  want  to  be  in  this  building 
during  a  serious  earthquake,  and  I  think  the  D-EIR 
should  address  that  issue. 


131 


Thank  you  very  much. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Next  speaker  is  Steve 
St.  Denny.  And  then  Joe  O'Donoghue. 

MR.  STEVE  ST.  DENNY:  Hello.  My  name  is 
Steve  St.  Denny;  I'm  a  San  Francisco  resident,  and  I 
happen  to  own  a  business  directly  across  the  street 
from  the  proposed  site  for  Home  Depot,  that's  Carpet 
Connection.  .  


I'm  no  earthquake  expert,  but  I  was 
standing  in  my  place  during  the  last  earthquake.  We 
have  a  much  taller  facility  than  this,  with  heavy 
carpets  way  up  high  on  racks.  We  had  no  damage; 
nothing  fell.  But,  you  know,  that's  only 
experience.  What  I  want  to  talk  to  you  about  is 
traffic  and  pollution  and  public  transit.  

No.  l  jthe  nature  of  my  business:  I  go 
out  to  people's  homes  all  over  San  Francisco.  I 
can't  remember  the  last  time  I  drove  on  Cortland 
Avenue,  except  to  get  a  pizza,  or  there  is  a  nice 


131 


114 


4_(Pages  10  to  13) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-6 


July  10,  2003 


Page  14 


1 

|  2 

3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 

14 

11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Hungarian  restaurant  up  there.  I  don't  drive 
through  there.  This  is  not  a  convenient  place  to 
get  from  one  place  to  another  through  Cortland 
Avenue,  and  I  agree  that  no  one  will  make  that 
mistake  more  than  once. 

With  the  Home  Depot  in  Colma,  if  there 
was  a  traffic  hell  going  on  in  Bayshore  Boulevard,  I 
think  that  people  might  just  choose  to  go  to  Colma, 
so  I  don't  think  it  is  a  real  concern  that  there's 
going  to  be,  you  know,  people  lining  up  for  a  half 
an  hour  to  get  through  Cortland  Avenue.  It  just 
wouldn't  happen. 

The  reality  is  when  you  talk  about 
traffic  and  gases,  there  may  be  a  little  more 
traffic  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  because,  you  know,  we 
don't  have  any  business  occupying  those  sites. 

And  when  I  moved  in  there  20  years  ago  — 
by  the  way,  Whole  Earth  Access,  not  a  retail 
clothing  store  at  that  time  —  it  was  what: 
Allstate  Plywood  Company?  Next  to  it  you  have  a 
Smart  and  Final  —  was  also  Pacific  Supply  — 
building  supply. 

You  are  talking  about  the  same  use  in  a 
place  that's  been  there  for  years  and  years.  You 
have  a  whole  street  of  home  improvement  stores  and 


Page  16 


1  You  shop  actually  —  when  that  site  was 

2  Allstate  Plywood  in  the  70's  and  the  early  80's,  and 

3  never  once  —  we  were  in  remodeling  at  the  time  —  I 

4  think  I  used  Cortland  Avenue  twice,  even  when  we 

5  were  doing  remodeling  work  in  the  Mission  —  passes 

6  right  down  there. 

7  Secondly,  in  terms  of  its  traffic  impact, 

8  many  of  our  members  —  and  I  know  quite  a  few  people 

9  in  construction  -  we  use  and  go  to  use  Home  Depot. 

10  One  of  our  members,  in  fact,  his  bid  last  year  was 

1 1  $250,000.  But  at  the  same  time,  he  remembers  also 

1 2  using  a  small  hardware  companies,  Matchmarty 

1 3  Pacific,  Whitmore  Supply  —  which  has  construction 

1 4  equipment.  ~ 

15  So  it  is  not  inconsistent  that  a  big 

1 6  corporate  entity  come  into  the  city,  and  the 

1 7  presumption  is  that  it  is  going  to  have  an  impact  on 

1 8  small  businesses. 

1 9  If  you  give  the  nature  of  the  fact  that 

20  we  have  so  much  outflow  from  here,  in  terms  of 

2 1  traffic  to  South  San  Francisco  to  Colma  right  now 

22  for  some  of  the  shopping  facilities,  we  may  very 

23  well  could  make  the  opposite  argument  that  having 

24  Home  Depot  where  it  is  at  will  in  fact  reduce 

25  traffic  in  terms  of  its  pollution  impact;  in  terms 


164 


126 


114 


9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 


126 


20 

21 

22f 

23 

24 

25 


Page  15 


contractors.  Many  of  the  clients  who  would  go  to 
Home  Depot  —  and  I  shop  at  Home  Depot  almost  every 
day  —  they  are  already  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  You 
are  not  talking  about  extra  trips. 

And  where  do  you  think  the  people  that 
maintain  the  property  in  San  Francisco  have  to  drive 
to?  They  are  driving  all  the  way  through  the  city. 
If  you  shorten  trips,  you  have  less  pollution. 

And  I  don't  think  a  whole  lot  of  people 
take  buses  to  the  Home  Depot  in  Colma  for  their  job. 
But  I'm  guessing  that  a  lot  of  people  who  worked  at 
Home  Depot,  if  it  were  on  Bayshore  Boulevard,  would 
ride  a  bus  there  —  not  the  customers,  because  you 
can't  carry  2  x  4's  on  the  bus  —  but  if  you  are 
talking  about  employees  that  would  be  accessible  to 
them  by  bus;  you  are  talking  about  shorter  trips. 

And  maybe  it  is  a  little  more  pollution, 
but  you  know  what?  There's  a  freeway,  101,  right 
between  that  and  Bernal  Heights,  or  any  other 
residential  neighborhood.  So  you  can't  possibly 
think  it  would  change  much  of  that. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Joe  O'Donoghue,  followed 
by  Dwayne  Jusino. 

MR.  JOE  O'DONOGHUE:  Joe  O'Donoghue.  I 
agree  with  the  previous  speaker. 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


of  the  environment. 


Page  '  i 

126 


So  again,  we  support  this.  I  think  that, 
you  know,  quality  of  neighborhoods  and  quality  of 
life  is  very  important,  but  the  fact  is  that 
Bayshore  has  been  historically  an  industrial  area 
where,  again,  you  had  servicing  down  there.  In 
fact,  one  of  the  Ford  Motor  Company  recently  moved 
their  facilities  right  down  there.  I  bring  my  car 
down  there  for  repairs  and  maintenance  and  things 
like  that.  So  that  scenario,  where  business  was 
actually  intended  to  actually,  you  know,  be  created 
and  prosper. 


164 


And  the  final  thing,  even  though  it  is 
not  part  of  the  D-EIR:  It  does  add  to  jobs. 
Thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Dwayne  Jusino,  followed 
by  Terezina  Jusino. 

MR.  DWAYNE  JUSINO:  I'm  Dwayne  Jusino, 
with  the  Community  Alliance  of  Portola  and  Silver 
Terrace.   


We're  a  neighborhood  improvement  group 
for  the  community  that  is  immediately  south  and 
adjacent  to  the  proposed  Home  Depot  site.  As  such, 
we  took  a  careful  look  at  this  project,  because  we 
are  in  close  proximity,  and  we  have,  for  your 


114 


5 (Pages  14  to  17) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-7 


July  10,  2003 


Page  18 


114 


9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


reference,  three  freeway  off  ramps  which  will  lead 
to  this  project  site,  that  empty  directly  into  our 
community,  and  through  our  commercial  corridor  of 
San  Bruno  Avenue. 

So  as  such,  we  were  concerned  initially 
of  very  much  the  same  concern  that  had  been  aired  by 
the  Bernal  Heights  community,  regarding  traffic  and 
impact  on  our  commercial  enterprises'  viability. 

However,  we  have  come  to  the  opposite 
conclusion.  We  feel  that  the  accommodations 
designed  into  the  proposal  for  traffic  and  parking 
are  more  than  adequate.  We  do  not  fear  that  this  is 
going  to  have  an  adverse  impact  upon  our  commercial 
strip.  And  in  fact,  we're  looking  forward  to  some 
spill-off,  as  far  as  bringing  customer  flow  to  the 
area  there. 

So  we  wanted  to  provide  you  with  some 
detailed  comments  here;  I'll  submit  this  to  your 
clerk  (indicating).  But  we're  in  agreement  with  our 
neighbors  in  Bay  View  that  this  project  should  go 
forward. 


Thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you.  Terezina 
Jusino,  followed  by  Rob  Caldwell. 

MS.  TEREZINA  JUSINO:  Hi.  I'm  Terezina 


Page  20 


1  Boulevard  to  shop  for  building  materials.  Because 

2  the  bulk  of  the  people  —  bulk  of  the  businesses  on 

3  Bayshore  Boulevard  do  provide  building  materials  to 

4  the  public.   

5  Thank  you  for  your  time. 

6  PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you.  I  had 

7  Ms.  Aida  Calico,  followed  by  James  Tarn. 

8  MS.  AIDA  CALICO:  My  name  is  Aida  Calico, 

9  and  I  am  a  retired  teacher;  a  school  teacher.  

1 0  I  have  been  in  the  Bernal  Heights"" 

1 1  district  for  many,  many  years;  a  little  over  50 

1 2  years.  My  house  is  89  years  old,  and  all  these 

1 3  units  the  repair  material  came  from  the  old  Goodman 

14  store.  I  am  hoping  and  praying  that  the  new  store 

15  of  Home  Depot  will  be  there.  It  is  needed;  it  is  a 

1 6  convenient  location.  As  far  as  the  traffic  goes, 

1 7  that's  a  problem  everywhere. 

18  It  is  not  only  convenient,  because  some 

19  of  we  who  are  older  people  certainly  cannot  get  out 

20  of  town  to  do  our  shopping.  And  it  is  convenient 

2 1  because  a  big  store  like  Home  Depot  will  have  about 

22  everything  you  need.  You  don't  have  to  waste  time 

23  going  anywhere  else  to  find  what  you  need. 

24  I  trust  that  you  will  all  remember  that 

25  the  income  alone  would  amount  to  some  $400,000 


114 


164 


164 


9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16. 
17 
18 


Page  19 


Page  21 


1  Jusino,  and  I  have  a  business  on  2830  San  Bruno 

2  Avenue.  I  am  also  a  secretary  of  the  San  Bruno 

3  Avenue  Merchants  Association,  and 


on  behalf  of  the 


114 


21 

22 
23 
24 
25 


merchants  association  we  are  for  Home  Depot  at  the 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  and  I  actually  have  a  letter 
here  from  our  president  in  support  of  that,  with  our 
reasons.  |So  if  I  can  just  give  this  to  you? 
Thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you.  Rob 
Caldwell. 

MR.  ROB  CALDWELL:  I'm  Rob  Caldwell,  195 
Bayshore  Boulevard,  San  Francisco.  I  own 
Caldwell's,  the  building  salvage  resource.  We  are  a 
business  that  has  been  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  for 
over  25  years,  and  I  would  like  to  address  one 
aspect  of  the  D-EIR  —  the  traffic. 


I  have  been  there  for  a  long  time,  and 
from  Goodman's  in  its  heyday,  and  when  Whole  Earth 
Access  and  Allstate  Plywood  were  very  successful, 
there  was  quite  a  bit  of  traffic.  I'm  sure  the 
traffic  will  be  coming  back  to  those  patterns,  but  I 
think  it  will  be  better  because  I  think  there  is 
better  planning  now  than  they  had  in  the  past. 

Also,  we  welcome  the  additional  traffic; 
the  consumers  that  will  be  coming  to  Bayshore 


1 

2 
3 

4_ 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


annually  in  sales  tax,  and  that  there  will  be 
many  —  maybe  300  more  jobs  added. 

Please,  let's  not  have  any  more  delay  on 
this  matter.  Tnank  you,  and  many,  many  thanks,  and 


164 


hoping  you  consider  all  these  points. 

MR.  B  ADINER:  If  I  may,  Commissioners, 
and  I  know  you  have  said  it  before,  but  I'm  going  to 
try  it  again: 

I  want  to  clarify  what  this  hearing  is 
about.  This  is  a  hearing  on  the  adequacy  of  the 
EIR;  not  whether  we  feel  Home  Depot  is  appropriate 
or  inappropriate.  What  is  appropriate  to  comment  at 
this  time  is  the  adequacy  of  the  EIR,  in  terms  of 
its  traffic-transit  impacts;  urban  design;  air 
quality;  things  like  that.  Is  it  adequate  or  is  it 
not? 

There  will  be  another  time  after  this 
EIR,  if  it  is  certified,  to  talk  about  Home  Depot 
itself,  the  project,  once  we  have  all  the 
information  that  is  contained  in  the  EIR.  And 
whether  it  is  appropriate  and  whether  it  is  a  great 
project  for  the  city  or  a  terrible  project  for  the 
city. 

But  that's  not  what  we're  considering 
right  now.  It  is  a  very  technical  distinction;  I 


6 (Pages  18  to  21) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-8 


July  10,  2003 


Page  22 


10 

11 


164 


14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


just  wanted  to  try  one  more  time  to  make  it.  We'll 
see  whether  it  is  useful. 
Thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  James  Tarn. 

MR.  JAMES  TAM:  Hi.  My  name  is  James 
Tarn;  I  live  on  1588  Sycamore  Avenue.  For 
20-something  years  I  drive  by  Bayshore  Avenue  almost 
every  day.  |— 

 I  don't  know  much  about  the  EIR,  but|l 

live  right  in  between  where  Colma  Home  Depot  is  and 
where  the  proposed  Home  Depot  site  is.  I 
practically  go  to  the  Home  Depot  at  least  twice  a 
week;  sometimes  twice  a  day.  I  do  spend  a  small 
fortune  there.  And  I  am  sure  that  the  EIR  problem, 
the  Colma  they  welcome  me,  because  when  I  go  there  I 
have  to  drive  around  and  around  to  find  a  parking 
space. 

I  don't  think  that  the  EIR  will  probably 
be  that  bad  for  Bayshore  Boulevard,  because  I  am 
sure  when  Home  Depot  construct  a  parking  lot  they 
will  probably  make  the  entrance  not  from  the 
Bayshore;  they  will  make  people  turn  into  a  side 
street  for  the  garage.  I'm  sure  they  are  smart  in 
that  kind  of  design. 

I  spend  so  much  money  at  Home  Depot  — 


Page  24 

1  You  have  Bayshore  Boulevard  itself,  and  you  have 

2  Highway  101  with  the  Bayshore  exit. 

3  As  several  other  speakers  have  said,  I 

4  don't  think  people  would  drive  down  Cortland  more 

5  than  once.  I  have  lived  in  that  same  house  for  25 

6  years,  and  I  know  exactly  how  traffic  works  in  that 

7  area.  I  used  to  shop  at  Goodman's  as  well.  I  have 

8  been  in  that  house  for  25  years. 

9  Goodman's  was  a  great  shop.  You  know,  it 

10  was  very  convenient;  now  Colma  gets  all  of  my  money, 

1 1  and  Colma  gets  my  sales  tax  dollars. 

12  I  believe  that  the  traffic  issues  are 

13  workable  —  speaking  directly  to  the  EIR  matters  

14  here.lButasjC  ommissioner  Feldstein  noted  at  one  

1 5  point,  all  this  planning  has  something  to  do  with 

1 6  social  engineering. 

17  And  I'll  be  just  very  brief  on  this:  San 

1 8  Francisco  needs  jobs;  San  Francisco  needs  tax 

1 9  revenue  —  especially  in  our  times  of  deficit.  And 

20  I'll  just  close  on  a  personal  note:  I'm  unemployed 

2 1  at  the  moment,  and  it  sure  would  be  nice  if  I  could 

22  get  a  job  down  there.  

23  Thank  you  very  much. 

24  SECRETARY  AVERY:  Before  we  take  the  next 

25  speaker,  the  doorway  is  blocked.  We  need  you  to 


114 


164 


164 

3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 

48 

14 
15 
16 
17 
18 

114 

21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  23 


Page  25 


even  though  it  cheaper  for  me  to  go  shop  in  Colma 
Home  Depot  because  of  sales  tax  is  less,  as  a  good 
San  Franciscan  I  like  to  see  the  Home  Depot  Bayshore 
site  get  approved. 


Thank  you. 
PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you.  Robert 
Heacock.  And  followed  by  Rick  Rutledge. 

MR.  BOB  HEACOCK:  My  name  is  Bob  Heacock; 
I  live  at  281  Bradford  Street  --  which  is  right  off 
Cortland.  And}l  used  to  be  able  to  look  out  my  back 


window,  and  look  down  on  the  old  Goodman's,  so  go 
down  Bradford  Street  and  I  get  to  Cortland  Street. 

I  would  say  the  worst  traffic  on  Cortland 
Street  is  between  6:00  and  7:30  in  the  morning,  and 
that's  commuters  from  Bernal  Heights  who  are  going 
down  Cortland  Street  and  onto  Bayshore  Boulevard. 


It  is  my  understanding  that  the  Home  Depot  has 
redesigned  their  entrances  and  exits  to  be  on  Loomis 
Street  --  which  is  actually  behind  Bayshore 
Boulevard. 

I  have  enough  experience  with  traffic 
engineering  that  I  know  that  if  they  put  cut-outs  — 
even  double  cut-outs  —  that  people  would  not  get 
backed  up  on  Bayshore  or  Industrial.  You  have 
Alemany  as  a  main  source  of  entry  into  that  area. 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


move  away  from  the  door.  There  is  this  whole  wall 
over  here  --  is  open;  find  a  seat.  And  there  is 
still  overflow  in  Room  421.  I  saw  few  people  move  a 
couple  of  steps,  but  that  door  is  blocked. 

MR.  RICK  RUTLEDGE:  Good  evening.  My 
name  is  Rick  Rutledge;  I  live  at  735  Andover  Street, 


which  I  own  and  have  owned  for  seven  years.  I  have 
lived  in  San  Francisco  for  14  years,  and  I'm  here  to 
express  my  vehement  support  for  accepting  the  draft 
EIR,  and  moving  ahead  with  this  project.  


164 


For  my  14  years  here  I  have  been  working 
here  and  been  an  avid  do-it-yourselfer,  often  to  the 
benefit  of  landlords,  and  often  for  the  benefit  of 
myself  and  my  neighbors. 

I  know  one  of  the  biggest  issues  raised 
in  the  EIR  is  traffic,  and  I  think  the  location  that 
has  been  selected  is  probably  the  best  location  in 
the  city  for  dealing  with  traffic.  We  have  101  and 
280,  both  literally  within  a  stone's  throw  of  the 
site.  We  have  Industrial,  Alemany,  San  Bruno, 
Bayshore  and  Potrero  —  all  accessible  for  surface 
streets  of  various  areas  of  the  city. 

I  know  that  for  me,  I  would  often  walk  to 
the  Home  Depot,  rather  than  driving  to  Colma  for  any 
smaller  lumber  that  I  would  have  previously  walked 


114 


7  (Pages  22  to  25) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-9 


July  10,  2003 


114 


10 


164 

13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 

114 

23 
24 
25 


Page  26 

to  Goodman's  for.  I  currently  walk  to  S  and  C  Ford 
from  my  home  when  I  need  to  use  their  services  jandl 
just  want  to  state  my  support. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  John  DeGarmo?  Followed 
by  Robert  Greco,  and  then  Iris  Gregory. 

MR.  JOHN  DeGARMO:  Good  afternoon,  Madam 

President,  and  members  of  the  board.  

My  name  is  John  DeGarmo,  andft  have 


worked  in  that  area  about  20  years,  and  I  have  done 
business  with  about  90  percent  of  the  businesses  on 
Bayshore. 

It  is  very  important  that  Home  Depot  be 
allowed  to  come  in  here,  because  the  environmental 
impact  of  the  death  of  Goodman's  has  caused  an 
influx  of  heroin  addicts,  crack  monsters,  and  speed 
freaks,  who  have  congregated  around  this  vacant 
property  and  has  made  it  very,  very  —  brought  down 
the  quality  of  life  in  the  neighborhood.  It  will 
bring  tax  dollars  and  bring  jobs  and  bring  training. 


The  traffic  is  estimated  to  increase  on  a 
quarterly  basis  by  1 3  percent.  That  amounts  to  one 
car  for  every  eight  cars  that  come  down  there  now; 
they  are  going  to  have  one  more  car:  not  very  much 
of  an  impact. 

Also,  now  that  Goodman's  is  gone,  and  the 


Page  28 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


not  be  a  big  impact  there  —  the  same  as  you  heard 
from  other  speakers. 

So  I  think  it  would  be  for  the  good  of 
the  neighborhood  to  have  this  business  over  there. 


We  have  really  a  lot  of  other  facts  concerning  with 
the  EIR  or  D-EIR.  Thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you. 

MR.  DAVID  GREGMORE:  David  Gregmore,  101 
Dartmouth  Street,  San  Francisco.  Essentially  I'll 
read  a  prepared  speech  that  just  addresses  the 
D-EIR.   

Anyway,  clearlyjthe  environmental  issues 
have  been  fully  addressed  in  the  EIR.  Every  day 
that  this  project  is  in  limbo  Bayshore  Boulevard 
deteriorates  with  more  litter  and  drug  use, 
conducted  around  the  old  Goodman's  site.  J  ( 

As  a  small  business  owner,  I'm  tired  of 
the  delays,  and  I  urge  the  Commission  to  recognize 
this  document  is  thorough  and  complete.  My  family 
has  owned  property  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  since  1939, 
and  has  continually  operated  a  business  there. 

As  has  been  stated  before  that  whole  area 
was  lumber  yards;  there  was  lumber  yards  all  over 
the  place;  hardware  companies  set  up  the  next  thing. 

Essentially  with  Goodman's  and  other 


114 


4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 


164 


14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 


114 


24 
25 


Page  27 


Page  29 


Whole  Earth  is  gone,  the  traffic  has  diminished 
greatly  in  the  last  three  years,  but  we  really  need 
the  Home  Depot;  you  guys  need  the  money;  need  the 
tax  dollars.  I  don't  want  to  give  it  to  Colma;  I 
want  to  give  it  to  San  Francisco. 
Thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you.  Robert 
Greco?  Iris  Gregory?  Followed  by  Ali  -  is  it 
Sayed? 

MR.  ALI  SAEED:  Good  evening;  my  name  is 
Ali  Saeed.  [since  the  Goodman's  closed,  we  lost  a 


lot  of  business.  And  its  business  went  down  and 
anything  we  have  to  buy  for  the  like  tiles,  lights, 
we  have  to  Colma.  And  we  would  like  to  have  Home 


Depot.  Thank  you. 


PRESIDENT  BELL:  Cesar  Mendoza,  and  then 
David  Gregory. 

MR.  CESAR  MENDOZA:  Good  evening, 
Commissioners.  My  name  is  Cesar  Mendoza.  I  live 
there  a  few  blocks  from  -  by]  Home  Depot.  It  should 


be  there.  I  have  been  there  a  long  time,  over  30 
years.  And  I  know  when  Goodman  Lumber  was  there, 
there  was  no  problem  with  traffic,  because  I  think 
when  somebody  leaves  something,  they  don't  owe  him 
that  same  trouble.  So  the  traffic  would  be  like  - 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


companies,  other  than  Carpet  Connection, 
Floorcraft  —  it  has  always  been  a  home  improvement 
center.  Since  Goodman's  has  closed,  the  area  has 
deteriorated.  Most  of  the  businesses  in  the  area 
have  lost  business. 

People  will  come  in  and  jobs  will  be 
created,  and  the  tax  revenue  generated  would  be 
great  for  the  City  of  San  Francisco,  and  so 
basically  I'm  all  for  it.   


PRESIDENT  BELL:  Andrea  Elzie  and 
Reverend  Cordell  Hawkins.  I  know  some  people  left. 

Andrew  McGowan?  And  then  Anna  Shimko. 

MS.  ANNA  SHIMKO:  I  don't  know  if  I'm  age 
or  beauty,  but  I'll  take  it.  t 

I'm]  Anna  Shimko  J  speaking  today  as  the  ' 
lawyer  on  behalf  of  Home  Depot.  Very  briefly,  Home 
Depot  will  be  submitting  some  more  detailed  comments 
on  the  EIR  as  of  the  close  of  the  public  comment 
period  tomorrow. 

Our  opinion  is  that  the  EIR  does,  very 
thoroughly  and  comprehensively,  evaluate  the  impacts 
of  the  proposed  project.  In  fact,  in  our  view  it 
overstates  the  impacts  by  using  very  conservative, 
worst-case  assumptions.  But  in  the  CEQA  world 
that's  a  good  thing,  understanding  that  the  impacts 


1( 


1( 


8  (Pages  26  to  2< 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-10 


July  10,  2003 


Page  30 


64 

4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 

82 

19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


and  mitigation  measures  are  not  too  small. 

The  public  has  an  opportunity  to  be  aware 
of  what  the  impacts  might  be.  Our  mitigation 
obligations  will  be  sufficient  to  cover  what  our 
impact  may  be,  and  more.  And  again,  we  will  submit 
more  detailed  comments,  but  I  would  very  heartily 
commend  the  City  on  a  very  thorough,  comprehensive 
document.  , 


Thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Al  Norman,  followed  by  S 
and  J  —  no  name  is  put  here. 

MR.  AL  NORMAN:  Al  Norman,  President  of 
Bay  View  Merchants  Association,  andfmy  comments  on 
the  EIR  are  concerning  the  environmental  impact  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard  and  entering  the  freeway,  and  the 
impact  that  —  the  differential  of  the  impact  of 
when  the  Fell  Street  offramp  was  up,  and  since  it 
has  been  torn  down.  Because  we  had  a  consistent 
increase  in  traffic  in  trying  to  get  on  that  freeway 
since  that  Fell  Street  offramp  has  been  pulled  down. 
Traffic  is  backing  up  now. 

So  the  EIR  might  have  been  good  before 
CalTrans  tore  down  that  part  of  the  freeway,  but  it 
has  been  backed  up  since,  and  a  lot  of  people  are 
taking  off,  coming  off  on  Bayshore,  and  taking  other 


Page  32 


1  decrease  the  quality  of  life  not  only  for  Bay 

2  View/Hunters  Point  but  also  for  our  neighbors  in 

3  Bernal. 

4  We  did  spot  some  inaccuracies,  and  I 

5  would  like  to  commend  Home  Depot  for  responding  to 

6  those  inaccuracies,  such  as  the  amount  of  the 

7  population  daily  workers  —  I  forget  what  actually 

8  the  term  is  for  it,  but  it  was  75  to  1 00  in  the 

9  D-EIR,  and  we  questioned  about  this,  and  now  they 

10  gave  us  a  formula  for  how  it  is  not  supposed  to  be. 

1 1  My  point  is  this:  It  takes  a  common  goal 

12  for  that  stuff.  I've  got  a  full-time  job  and 

13  full-time  family,  and  most  of  the  people  who  work 

14  with  me  on  that  stuff  will  have  the  same  type  of 

1 5  thing.  And  I  always  believe  in  measure  twice  and 

1 6  cut  once,  so  when  I  make  the  final  seal  of  approval 

17  of  this,  I  want  to  make  sure  it  sound  good  for  Bay 

1 8  View,  but  also  for  the  surrounding  neighbors.  

19  Thanks. 

20  PRESIDENT  BELL:  Laurel  Muniz,  followed 

21  byJoePocoro. 

22  MS.  LAURA  RUIZ:  Good  afternoon  

23  Commissioners.  My  name  is  Laurel  Muniz.  }l  have 

24  lived  in  Bernal  Heights  for  28  years,  and  I  support 

25  the  Home  Depot  project  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I 


164 


164 


2 

82 

5  • 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 

,164 

25 


Page  3 1 


Page  33 


routes  out.  So  these  people  are  talking  about  there 
ain't  going  to  be  a  big  increase  in  traffic:  Try  to 
go  down  there  now,  and  get  out  of  here  and  go  across 
the  bay,  and  you  will  see  what  you  are  likely  to 
contend  with.  Have  the  EPA  check  the  pollution  on 
all  cars  backed  up. 

So  I'm  concerned  what  the  impact  is  now 
with  all  the  automobiles  since  that  freeway  has  been 
torn  down.  And  traffic  is  considerably  backed  up. 
You  have  a  heck  of  a  time  getting  on  the  freeway,  or 
if  you  want  to  take  Potrero. 

Thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you. 

Angelo  King?  Followed  by  Laurel  Muniz. 

MR.  ANGELO  KING:  Thank  you, 
Commissioners,  and  thank  you  for  continuing  to  allow 
us,  the  community,  to  take  a  look  at  the  D-EIR.  You 
know,  it  is  a  very  complicated  document. 

My  name  is  Angelo  King.  I'm  the  director 
of  Southeast  Neighborhood  Jobs  Roundtable,  and  I'm  a 
Bay  View  resident. 


It  is  a  very  complicated  document,  and 
there's  a  lot  of  people  full-time  jobs  trying  to  go 
over  these  things,  and  trying  to  make  sure  what  is 
in  here  is  best  for  the  community,  and  does  not 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


have  been  involved  in  this  project  for  almost  two 
years  now,  and  I  can  tell  you  that  the  Home  Depot 
representatives  have  done  an  excellent  job  in  their 
outreach  to  our  community,  for  those  of  us  who  were 
willing  to  listen. 

The  Home  Depot  team  has  given  two 
presentations  to  the  Northwest  Bernal  Alliance,  a 
community  driven  non-profit  all-volunteer 
neighborhood  improvement  group,  of  which  I  am  a 
member. 

Several  of  our  members  asked  for  an 
additional  exit  and  entrance;  glare  reduction  from 
the  roof  at  night;  and  mitigation  of  the  project's 
traffic  impact.  On  a  second  visit  to  our  community 
group,  the  Home  Depot  traffic  architect  and 
consultant  showed  us  the  design  changes  they  made  in 
order  to  address  these  concerns. 

Our  neighbors  to  the  east,  the  Bay 
View/Hunters  Point  communities,  and  the  PAC,  have 
worked  long  and  hard  to  create  a  concept  plan  to 
revitalize  this  dying  corridor,  which  includes  a 
project  such  as  this. 

I  support  this  plan.  I  am  satisfied  with 

the  D-EIR,  and  ask  that  you  move  this  project  

forward,  lfhank  you  for  allowing  me  the  opportunity 


164 


9  (Pages  30  to  33) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-ll 


July  10,  2003 


Page  34 


114 

12 


13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


to  speak  before  you  today. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Joe  Pecoro,  followed  by 
Judy  Berkowitz. 

MR.  JOE  PECORO:  My  name  is  Joe  Pecoro. 


I'm  a  long-time  resident  of  Bernal  Heights,  and  I 
favor  Home  Depot  going  on  to  Bayshore.  I'll  try  to 
stick  to  the  EIR. 

I  did  read  it  —  and  it  is  not  the 
easiest  thing  to  do  —  and  I  did  see  that  the 
traffic  impact  was  going  to  increase  1 3  percent. 
And  I  was  thinking  "Well,  what  about  common  sense?" 

If  you've  got  101,  280,  and  Cesar  Chavez 
to  get  to  the  store,  why  would  you  use  Cortland?  If 
you  did  use  Cortland,  like  other  people  have 
said,  you  would  use  it  once.  You've  got  eight  or 
ten  stop  signs;  it  is  a  one-lane  road.  You  will  do 
it  once,  and  you  won't  do  it  again. 

And  also,  when  Goodman's  and  Whole  Earth 
Access  were  there,  they  had  super  sidewalk  sales  all 
the  time.  And  I  mean  there  were  cars;  there  were  a 
lot  of  people  there,  and  nobody  ever  complained  in 
the  Bemal  Heights  community  about  the  traffic.  And 
there  was  a  lot  of  traffic,  but  nobody  said 
anything.  And  also  you  had  Whole  Earth  Access.  I 
mean  there  was  a  lot  of  business  going  on. 


Page  36 


1  support  and  approve  the  D-EIR  as  written,  and 

2  would  ~  and  please  ask  you  to  approve  and  certify 

3  the  D-EIR. 

4  The  independent  study  states  that  "The 

5  potential  queues  that  would  develop  at  the  main 

6  access  routes  to  the  proposed  project,  and  the 

7  increase  in  traffic  volumes  at  the  nearby 

8  intersections,  would  not  adversely  affect  Muni  and 

9  Samtrans  service  levels,  and  therefore  would  not 

10  result  in  significant  impact  to  transit  operations." 

1 1  "With  the  emphasis  on  public  transit 

1 2  coming  from  the  Planning  Department,  but  the 

1 3  decrease  in  Muni  services  throughout  the  city,  we 

14  concur  that  a  level  of  service  would  not  be 

1 5  adversely  affected.  Please  approve  and  certify  the 

16  D-EIR.  Thank  you  for  your  consideration," 

17  PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you.  Stephen 

1 8  Summers?  Maria  Cruz?  And  Mario  Villa.  Any  of 

1 9  those  people  here? 

20  MS.  EVE  BACH:  Sorry.  I  thought  there 

2 1  was  going  to  be  a  whole  troop  ahead  of  me. 

22  I'm  Eve  Bach,  from  ArcEcology,  an 

23  organization  in  San  Francisco.  We  have  been  working 

24  with  the  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center 

25  providing  the  technical  assistance  on  this  project. 


114 


144 

5 

6 

7 

8 
9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

114 

Page  35 


Page  37 


And  as  far  as  —  like  the  Bernal  Heights 
Neighborhood  Center,  which  is  spearheading  this 
whole  anti-Home  Depot  thing  -  in  the  beginning  they 
proposed  to  Home  Depot,  "Well,  you  build  your  store; 
let  us  put  affordable  housing  on  top."  And  there 
were  figures  like  a  thousand  affordable  units. 
Never  a  word  about  the  problem  of  Cortland  Avenue 
being  inundated  with  traffic  —  only  until  it  was 
declared  an  industrial  zone.  Bernal  Heights 
Neighborhood  Center  turned  right  around  and  said 
"No,  we  don't  want  it."  If  there  was  affordable 
housing  going  upstairs,  you  would  see  very  quiet 
Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center. 

Thank  you  very  much. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you. 

Judy  Berkowitz? 

MS.  JUDY  BERKOWITZ:  Good  evening, 
Commissioners;  President  Bell.  My  name  is  Judy 
Berkowitz.  However,  actuallyf'm  speaking  for 
someone  who  had  to  leave  from  the  Bay  View  —  is 
that  all  right? 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Sure. 

MS.  BERKOWITZ:  Her  name  islDoris  J 
|  Vincent.  This  is  her  speech: 

I  have  lived  43  years  in  the  Bay  View.  I 


1  There  are  many  defects,  I  think,  in  this 

2  EIR,  and  the  three  minutes  available  obviously  don't 

3  allow  going  into  them,  but  there's  one  problem  that 

4  I  would  like  to  bring  —  and  we  will  do  it  in  

5  writing  ~  butjthere  is  one  problem  I  would  like  to 

6  bring  to  your  attention,  and  it  is  a  problem  both 

7  with  the  Environmental  Impact  Report,  and  it  is  a 

8  much  bigger  problem  as  well. 

9  And  that  has  to  do  with  the  inadequacy  of 

1 0  the  general  plan.  As  you  may  know,  San  Francisco's 

1 1  general  plan  looks  at  most    provides  most  land  use 

12  policies  through  the  area  plans.  Bernal  Heights 

1 3  doesn't  have  an  area  plan,  and  the  general  plan 

14  doesn't  have  a  land  use  element.  So  we  have  a 

1 5  situation  where  there  are  no  policies  that  cover 

16  Bernal  Heights. 

17  The  reconciliation  of  uses  that 

1 8  ordinarily  would  be  addressed  by  the  land  use 

19  element  —  direct  conciliation  between  adjoining 

20  areas,  and  between  areas  in  the  city  as  a  whole  — 

2 1  has  not  taken  place. 

22  This  is  a  much  bigger  problem  than  the 

23  EIR  problem,  but  it  also  is  an  EIR  problem,  because 

24  it  is  not  mentioned  in  the  EIR,  and  because  the 

25  potential  conflicts  are  not  addressed,  the  potential 


26 


10  (Pages  34  to  37) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-12 


July  10,  2003 


26 


58 


9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 

60 

23 
24 
25 


Page  38 


land  use  conflicts  are  not  addressed. 


The  other  large  problem  with  this  EIR 
that  I  would  like  to  bring  to  your  attention  is  that 
almost  all  of  the  data  that  has  been  used  is  not 
available  to  the  public.  We  have  requested  of  the 
Planning  Department  that  we  be  permitted  to  review 
the  data  —  almost  all  of  which  comes  from  Home 
Depot  —  and  have  not  been  allowed  to  do  that  during 
the  review  period  —  which  means  that  we  can't 
really  comment  on  it  during  the  review  period. 

This  is  a  serious  problem,  and  I  think 
will  require  you  to  extend  the  review  period. 

Thank  you  for  your  attention,  and  good 

luck. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you.  Ron  Morgan? 
Larry  Cruz? 

MR.  LARRY  CRUZ:  Thank  you.  Good 

afternoon,  Commissioners.    | 

 My  name  is  Larry  Cruz:|l'm  the  president 

of  the  Bemal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center,  and  a 
14-year  resident  of  Bernal  Heights.  I  am  here  to 
voice  my  serious  concerns,  and  to  raise  questions 
about  the  draft  of  the  EIR. 

Just  by  looking  at  the  map,  it  is  clear 
that  Bernal  Heights  is  the  residential  and 


Page  40 


1  that  choke  our  streets,  foul  our  air,  and  impede  our 

2  local  commercial  enterprises. 

3  We  don't  want  to  support  corporations 

4  that  give  empty  promises  of  employment.  We  don't 

5  want  to  support  big-box  corporations  that  exploit 

6  their  workers;  cause  local  businesses  to  go  bust; 

7  and  do  not  make  significant  and  meaningful 

8  contributions  to  the  surrounding  neighborhood. 

9  Bernal  Heights  is  undergoing  its  own 

1 0  revitalization.  Over  the  last  ten  years  we  have 

1 1  seen  a  flurry  of  small  business  development  that  has 

12  enhanced  all  of  our  lives  in  Bernal  Heights.  I'm 

13  talking  about  the  bank;  restaurants;  grocers;  book 

14  stores;  churches;  coffee  houses;  flower  shops;  nail 

15  salons;  boutiques  and  all  the  myriad  number  of 

16  services  that  make  up  our  neighborhood,  and 

1 7  contribute  to  the  unique  character  of  Bernal 

1 8  Heights.  The  viability  and  survival  of  these  small 

1 9  businesses  must  be  protected  and  taken  into 

20  consideration  when  we  develop  the  Bayshore. 

21  We  in  Bernal  Heights  have  been  involved 

22  in  the  Home  Depot  project  for  over  two  years,  and  we 

23  expect  that  this  process  will  continue  for  the 

24  foreseeable  future.  Let  me  state  that  we  will 

25  continue  to  provide  oversight  of  all  aspects  of  any 


160 


160 


5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  39 


Page  41 


commercial  area  that  will  be  most  affected  by  the 
environmental  changes  brought  about  by  the  proposed 
project.  Since  today's  main  focus  is  the 
environment,  including  the  traffic  impacts,  the  air 
quality  and  land  use,  it  is  my  sincere  hope  and  my 
strong  request  that  our  concerns  in  Bernal  Heights 
be  taken  as  the  most  important  and  substantive 
issues  before  you  today. 

In  previous  meetings  we  have  been 
portrayed  as  Nimbys  and  anti-growth.  That  is  just 
not  so.  We  do  want  development  along  the  Bayshore 
corridor;  we  do  understand  that  San  Francisco  needs 
a  strong  economic  tax  base;  and  we  do  want  to  create 
meaningful  jobs  for  San  Franciscans,  especially  for 
those  in  Bay  View/Hunters  Point. 

We  do  want  to  ensure  that  air  quality 
will  not  be  compromised,  and  any  other  large  project 
in  the  future  will  not  compromise  this.  And  we 
certainly  want  and  will  be  involved  in  all  aspects 
of  the  land  use  development  along  the  Bayshore 
corridor. 

What  we  don't  want  is  unregulated  growth 
without  thought  and  careful  analysis  of  traffic 
concerns,  air  quality,  and  that  lack  community 
input.  We  don't  want  to  create  traffic  patterns 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


development;  we  will  continue  to  advocate  for  our 
neighbors  and  small  businesses,  to  protect  our 
quality  of  life  and  economic  development.  We  will 
see  this  process  through;  we  will  be  in  every 
meeting,  and  we  will  raise  questions  that  require 
serious  answers. 

What  is  at  stake  here  is  the  very  quality 
of  our  daily  lives,  and  no  negative  impact  will  go 
left  unchallenged.  ,  . 


160 


COMMISSIONER  ANTONINI:  Mauricio  Vela, 
Ron  Morgan  —  I  think  —  and  Barbara  Kyle. 

MR.  MAURICIO  VELA:  Good  afternoon, 
Commissioners,  and  Department  Head  Green.  I'm  glad 
to  be  here.   


I  am  the  executive  director  of  the  Bernal 
Heights  Neighborhood  Center,  and  I  am  also  a 
resident  of  Bernal  Heights  and  a  native  San 
Franciscan  —  and  glad  to  be  part  of  this  struggle 
and  discussion  and  debate  around  the  development  of 
Home  Depot. 

We  have  been  fighting  this  development 
for  the  past  27  months,  and  I  first  want  to  say,  you 
know,  my  parents  still  live  on  30th  and  Noe,  and  we 
always  took  Cortland  to  get  to  Goodman's  Lumber  and 
Whole  Earth  Access.  That  has  been  our  short-cut 


160 


11  (Pages  38  to  41) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-13 


July  10,  2003 


Page  42 


160 


9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 


67 

22 
23 
24 
25 


forever,  and  that's  what  we  use,  and  what  a  lot  of 
people  will  use. 

We  never  proposed  to  have  a  mixed-use 
development  with  Home  Depot  and  housing  on  top. 
took  a  survey  back  in  April  of  2001,  and  over  400 
residents  responded,  and  75  percent  of  those 
residents  were  against  a  Home  Depot  proposal,  and 
wanted  another  commercial  use  with  the  possibility 
of  housing  on  top. 

We  also  did  meet  with  Home  Depot  back  as 
recent  as  last  May.  We  have  had  our  ears  and  eyes 
open  and  willing  to  listen,  and  nothing  really 
changed  with  their  latest  proposal  except  the 
driveway  on  the  back  side  of  Loomis. 

It  is  still  as  big  as  it  is,  150,000 
square  feet,  the  biggest  in  the  nation.  It  will 
impact  our  community  negatively. 

The  traffic  right  now  on  Cortland  does 
queue  up  just  to  get  into  Bayshore.  1 0  cars  now; 
with  Home  Depot,  25  cars,  when  cars  and  trucks 
deliver  to  the  store,  and  it  is  chaos  on  Cortland. 

It  is  not  just  about  Cortland;  it  is  not 
about  Bayshore;  it  is  about  our  transit  corridors  to 
move  in  and  out  of  the  community.  We  support  the 
local  businesses  down  there,  and  we  feel  that  this 


We 


Page  44 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


hearing. 

MR.  MORGAN:  I  reside  in  Bemal  Heights, 
and|I  also  work  as  the  organizing  coordinator  of  the 
Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood  Center. 

When  we  and  others  requested  the  Planning 
Commission  require  Home  Depot  to  submit  to  a  full 
environmental  impact  review,  we  had  hoped  that  the 
resulting  EIR  would  outline  the  very  significant 
impacts  of  the  project,  and  suggest  a  suitable 
mitigation  program.  Unfortunately,  the  draft  EIR 
published  in  March  of  this  year  does  not  come  close 
to  doing  this,  and  if  it  were  up  before  you  today  I 
would  ask  you  to  reject  it. 

The  draft  EIR  on  Home  Depot  is  a  Trojan 
horse.  It  states  the  project  will  have  a  minimum  of 
impact,  and  offers  to  pay  for  a  minimum  mitigation 
program.  Hidden  inside  are  the  real  impacts  and 
real  costs  of  mitigating. 

The  question  the  Commission  must  ask  is 
this:  If  Home  Depot  is  allowed  to  avoid  paying  to 
mitigate  its  impacts,  who  will?  The  answer  is  the 
City  of  San  Francisco  and  the  taxpayers.  


144 


Others  will  focus  on  specifics;  on 
traffic  impacts. J I  would  like  to  focus  on  one 
portion  of  the  D-EIR,  which  is  a  one-page  finding  on 


133 


67 


9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  43 


Page  45 


will  displace  them.  There  will  be  1 ,200  new  cars 
down  there  per  hour,  which  is  going  to  be  impossible 
to  deal  with.  Public  transportation  will  be  slow. 
We  pride  ourselves  on  being  a  transit-first 
community  in  the  city. 

The  data  that  has  been  used  is,  as  we 
mentioned  —  needs  to  be  reviewed;  needs  to  be 
disputed;  it  is  not  accurate. 

The  on  ramps  are  backed  up  coming  down  to 
traffic  off  the  101.  It  is  going  to  have  a 
tremendous  negative  impact. 

We  do  want  to  work  on  developing  an 
alternative  development  plan  for  the  sites,  and  we 
ask  you  to  reject  the  draft  EIR  today,  or  when  you 
do  take  your  vote.  |Thank  you  very  much. 


COMMISSIONER  ANTONINI:  Next  speaker  wil 
be  Ron  Morgan.  Then  Barbara  Kyle  and  then  Craig 
Weber. 

MR.  RON  MORGAN:  Good  evening, 
Commissioners,  and  thank  you.  My  name  is  Ron 
Morgan;  I  reside  at  Bernal  Heights. 

SECRETARY  AVERY:  Before  I  even  start 
your  time,  the  door  is  blocked.  There  are  seats  in 
the  room.  You  may  take  seats.  We  encourage  you  to 
do  so,  please,  so  I  can  stop  interrupting  the 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


growth  inducement. 

The  draft  EIR  finds  that  the  project 
would  not  have  a  significant  effect  on  growth 
inducement.  That's  on  Page  103,  Section  F.  This 
finding  is  clearly  inadequate.  The  proposed  Home 
Depot  development  is  intended  to  be  growth  inducing. 
Its  impact  as  a  growth-inducing  development  needs  to 
be  studied  as  part  of  an  EIR. 

Since  the  project's  application  for 
environmental  review,  it  is  our  understanding  that 
Pier  1  Imports  has  lease  options  on  a  currently 
undeveloped  site  immediately  adjacent  to  the 
proposed  Home  Depot,  on  the  condition  that  the  Home 
Depot  development  is  granted  approval  to  build. 
This  demonstrates,  without  even  breaking  ground, 
that  the  project  is  growth  inducing. 

The  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  and 
San  Francisco  redevelopment  agency,  through  the 
neighborhoods  planning  and  zoning  process,  and  the 
survey  area  planned  for  the  South  Bayshore  Survey 
area,  has  stated  an  intention  to  encourage 
development,  including  big-box  retail  development, 
along  the  Bayshore  border. 

The  redevelopment  agency  has  been 
explicitly  supportive  of  the  Home  Depot  proposed 


133 


12  (Pages  42  to  45) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-14 


July  10,  2003 


33 


9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
U 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 

74- 


Page  46 

development,  because  it  feels  Home  Depot  is 
necessary  to  anchor  and  jump-start  large  scale 
development  along  Bayshore.  This  is  growth 
inducement,  and  it  needs  to  be  studied  in  the  EIR. 

The  draft  EIR  states  that  the  project  may 
induce  commercial  growth  in  the  area,  but  such 
growth  would  be  part  of  the  planned  growth  of  the 
city.  There  is  no  reference  in  the  draft  EIR  to  a 
specific  plan  about  this  commercial  growth,  so  it  is 
impossible  to  determine  which  plan  is  being 
referenced. 

The  commercial  growth  induced  by  the 
project,  if  comparable  in  size  to  the  scope  of  the 
project,  would  create  impacts  on  infrastructure  far 
above  existing  capacity.  The  possible  impacts  on 
infrastructure  would  include  traffic  intersections; 
freeway  on  ramps;  traffic  flow;  impact  on  water  and 
sewage. 

I  would  just  ask  you,  the  Planning 
Department,  to  look  into  the  growth  inducement  that 
is  being  acknowledged  here. 

COMMISSIONER  ANTONINI:  Thank  you.  Next 
speaker  Barbara  Kyle.  Craig  Weber  and  Andia  Zabala. 
MS.  BARBARA  KYLE:  Mv_name  is  Barbara 
lajiii 


Kyle,  and  [  live 


at  50  Santa  Marinalin  Bernal 


Page  48 


1  places  along  there.  And  that's  just  something  that 

2  we  think  is  really  problematic. 

3  One  thing  that  the  traffic  study  does:  A 

4  companion  study  was  done;  the  transportation 

5  study  —  is  it  evaluates  all  of  the  freeways  and 

6  intersections  with  what  they  call  "level  of 

7  service."  I'm  sure  you  are  familiar  with  this.  It 

8  grades  everything  A-B-C-D-E-F,  and  the  City  says 

9  anything  E  or  F  is  unacceptable.  We  actually  think 

1 0  that  D  is  also  unacceptable,  given  that  we  have  so 

1 1  few  routes  to  get  in  and  out  of  Bernal  Heights. 

12  This  (indicating)  is  what  the  results  of 

13  the  traffic  study  show:  that  in  fact  by  the  year 

14  2015,  all  of  the  freeway  onramps  will  be  at  level  F; 

1 5  completely  unacceptable.  And  that  means  extremely 

1 6  long  delays;  terrible  backups.  Many  of  our  other 

1 7  intersections  will  be  at  Levels  D  or  E,  and  in  fact 

1 8  the  data  is  somewhat  skewed,  because  what  they  will 

19  do  is  they  will  take  an  average  for  an  intersection, 

20  and  then  --  which  will  lower  the  grade. 

21  There  is  a  Cortland  eastbound,  and  it  is 

22  going  to  be  a  Level  E,  and  it  is  going  to  be  a 

23  serious  problem  for  all  of  us.  They  make  it  look 

24  like  it  is  D  because  they  average  eastbound  and 

25  westbound. 


74 


74 


5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  47 


Page  49 


Heights,  and  I  want  to  talk  to  you  about  traffic. 

I  have  two  main  points  that  I  want  to 
make  about  traffic,  and  the  fact  that  information 
that's  in  this  EIR  —  it  doesn't  make  these 
conclusions;  just  looking  at  the  data  shows  the 
traffic  impacts  are  enormous  to  Bernal  Heights. 

And  it  also  brings  up  very  serious  issues 
with  the  data  and  how  it  was  used,  that  we  think 
results  in  the  traffic  impacts  being  seriously 
underestimated  and  underrepresented  here. 

As  you  can  see,  it  is  right  out  of  the 
proposal:  The  Home  Depot  plan  has  its  main  driveway 
coming  right  off  the  Cortland  Avenue.  Cortland  is 
our  main  thoroughfare  in  Bernal  Heights.  Bernal 
Heights  is  a  very  pedestrian-friendly  community,  and 
while  there  is  —  they  have  added  another  little 
access  in  the  back  off  Loomis,  this  is  the  primary 
driveway  (indicating). 

I'm  just  wondering  if  any  of  you  have 
ever  been  to  the  Colma  Home  Depot.  Just  picture  for 
a  moment  what  the  driveway  looks  like  there,  and 
what  that  parking  garage  looks  like,  and  that's 
going  to  be  our  reality  every  time  we  come  down 
Cortland  Avenue,  and  try  to  just  get  out  of  our 
neighborhood  and  go  to  our  work  or  shopping  or  other 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


So  here  (indicating)  is  what  it  looks 
like  for  our  whole  neighborhood.  These  are  all  the 
intersections;  anything  that  is  red  is  F,  and 
anything  yellow  is  E,  and  greens  are  D's,  and 
basically  everywhere  we  go  we  run  into  trouble. 
These  little  highlights  are  called  "collision  hot 
spots"  that  were  identified  by  the  City's  own 
traffic  study  —  that  are  also  problematic.  


74 


PRESIDENT  BELL:  Craig  Weber  is  next. 
And  followed  by  Andia  Zabala,  and  then  Velma  Zabala, 
and  Roy  Recio.  After  Roy  is  Mr.  M.A.  Cane. 

MR.  ROY  RECIO:  My  name  is  Roy  Recio;  I 
was  here  previously  on  the  eastern  neighborhoods 
discussion.  I  live  in  Bernal  Heights;  I  work  south 
of  Market.  I  live  at  255  Ellsworth  Street. 


As  a  legally  blind  resident  of  Bernal 
Heights,  I  walk  down  into  the  old  plant  house,  owned 
and  operated  for  a  long,  long  time,  and  I  can  tell 
that  you  walking  across  the  street  and  going  down 
Cortland  and  crossing  the  street  to  Bayshore  is 
really,  really  tough  —  compounded  with  this 
proposed  site  of  Home  Depot  is  going  to  get  a  lot 
tougher.  Almost  everyone  will  get  the  monstrosity 
what  with  the  approved  target  in  traffic.  For  me  it 
is  going  to  be  totally,  totally  almost  impossible 


85 


13  (Pages  46  to  49) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-15 


July  10,  2003 


85 


5 

6 

7 

8 
9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

157 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

Page  50 


for  me  to  enjoy  my  life  there. 

Previously  I  talked  to  you  about 
working  south  of  Market;  I  told  you  about  the  space 
for  the  airport  screener  program  there.  I  take  the 
299  from  Bernal  down  to  Bayshore  to  the  airport,  and 
in  the  morning  with  the  previous  people  I  have 
talked  about  the  high  traffic  densities  and  so  on. 
And  it  takes  me  two  hours  to  get  back  from  the 
airport  on  the  299,  coming  through  Bayshore,  to  be 
dropped  off  and  walk  up  the  hill  to  Cortland. 

So  I  think  everybody  needs  to  put  into 
consideration  about  the  effects  of  the  people  who 
actually  live  there  and  work  there,  and  also  what 
they're  going  through,  basically,  in  my  situation  — 
and  there's  also  other  situations  here. 


1  also  want  to  talk  to  you  about  jobs. 
There  are  lots  of  fallacies  and  a  lot  of  false 
statements  from  the  City  about  jobs  in  the 
community.  The  Metreon  is  a  prime  example. 

They  promised  our  community  jobs,  jobs, 
jobs  and  they  said,  "Oh,  yeah,  we're  going  to  give 
you  jobs  at  Metreon."  At  the  South  of  Market 
Employment  Center,  this  year  we  placed  two  folks  in 
the  community  into  jobs,  because  the  Home  Depot 
people  and  —  such  as  Metreon  and  so  on  and  so  forth 


Page  52 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


kind  of  ~  the  traffic  that  comes  off  of 
O'Shaughnessy,  and  then  travel  —  people  from  the 
west  of  Twin  Peaks  use  O'Shaughnessy;  travel  to 
Mission;  come  across  Cortland  onto  Bayshore.  People 
come  down  Guerrero,  then  on  to  Mission,  and  across 
Cortland,  onto  the  Bayshore.  I  don't  think  people 
will  necessarily  circumvent  the  city  in  order  to  get 
to  this  proposed  store. 


I  think  that  it  will  have  an  effect  of 
adding  pollution,  because  there  will  be  cars  idling, 
as  they  wait  to  pull  into  the  lot.  lAnd  I  think  that 


44 


125 


it  is  a  poor  use  of  our  land;  our  extremely  limited 
land,  to  devote  it  to  a  big-box. 

I  think  we  can  do  better,  and  I  think  we 
owe  it  to  the  neighborhoods  that  surround  it,  and  to 
the  city. 


23 


Thank  you. 
"PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you. 
MR.  ROBERT  MOKERY:  Good  evening.  My 


name  is  Robert  Mokery;|I'm  a  resident  of  Bernal 
Heights,  308  Andover  Street.  I'm  not  associated 
with  any  of  the  neighborhood  groups,  nor  with  Home 
Depot.  I'm  speaking  with  you  today  to  discuss  the 
D-EIR,  and  I  find  a  series  of  flaws  with  that, 
specifically  relating  to  the  air  pollution  issues 
and  traffic. 


44 


157 


66 


14 

15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 


44 


Page  51 

—  they  have  not  been  accountable  to  the  community. 

They  say.  "Yes,  we're  going  to  train 
folks  and  give  them  jobs;  give  them  opportunities." 
It  is  just  a  fallacy.  For  them  to  make  false 
statements  is  pathetic;  jt  is  pathetic. 

Thank  you  very  much. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  I  have  an  M.A.  Caine. 
Shannon  Dodge?  Amy  Beinart? 

MS.  AMY  BEINART:  My  name  is  Amy  Beinart, 
and  I  have  lived  in  Bernal  Heights  for  1 5  years; 
been  a  resident  of  the  city  for  25. 

I  am  absolutely  opposed  to  this  project, 
and  I  have  serious  concerns  about  the  draft  EIR.  I 
think  it  is  extremely  inaccurate  in  addressing  the 
traffic  concerns  that  will  affect  Bernal  Heights, 
particularly  the  intersection  of  Mission  and 
Cortland,  which  is  where  the  24  has  to  turn,  and 
also  the  intersection  across  Cortland  where  the  67 
crosses  on  Folsom. 

So  I  think  it  is  not  only  a  matter  of 
affecting  other  cars  that  are  coming  down  Cortland 
Street,  but  also  having  a  serious  and  negative 
impact  on  buses  that  have  to  use  those  routes. 

I'm  also  concerned  that  the  draft  EIR 
doesn't  adequately  address  or  fully  evaluate  the 


Page  53 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Not  only  will  we  have  significant 
increase  of  traffic.  The  quoted  language  of  13 
percent  increase,  in  my  estimation,  is  very,  very 
low.  Having  shopped  at  the  Home  Depot  in  Colma,  I 
have  seen  many  times  when  it  is  backed  up;  the 
service  street  is  backed  up  down  Junipero  Sena,  and 
all  the  way  back  up  onto  the  freeway  where  it  is 
backed  up.  And  these  are  not  just  cars  idling. 
These  are  commercial  vehicles;  diesel  tracks;  loud 
ladders;  rattly  trucks  going  through  the  residential 
neighborhoods  early  in  the  morning,  further 
compounding  the  traffic  problem.  I  don't  feel  that 
this  has  been  fully  addressed. 


44 


Secondly,  as  a  stated  growth  inducer, 
there  is  the  potential  of  other  businesses  coming, 
which  will  further  aggravate  both  traffic  and  the 
air  pollution.  ]And  lastly,  1  don't  think  anyone  has 
a  problem  with  Home  Depot  per  se,  just  specifically 
with  this  project.  I'm  aware  they  have,  and  are 
developing,  60,000-square-foot  smaller  box  projects 
in  other  tight,  congested  urban  areas,  and  I  would 
be  very  in  favor  of  a  project  of  that  means.  And  I 
think  that  will  be  in  keeping  with  the  San  Francisco 
pride  of  promotion  of  neighborhood  merchants. 
A  huge  big  box  is  inconsistent  with  this 


*  • 


135 


152 


14  (Pages  50  to  53) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-16 


July  10,  2003 


152 


2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 

10 
11 


Page  54 


12 

123 


15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


history  and  area.  Jjhank  you  very  much  for  your 


time. 


PRESIDENT  BELL:  I  have  Amy  Kyle.  And 
then  Liz  Linal,  and  Linda  Cook. 

MS.  AMY  KYLE:  My  name  is  Amy  Kyle,  and 
I'm  going  to  speak  specifically  to  the  issues 
related  to  the  air  quality  in  the  D-EIR.  Before  I 
do  that,  I  want  to  reflect  for  a  moment  on  what  we 


know  about  air  pollution  now,  that  we  didn't  know 
ten  years  ago. 

You  know,  air  pollution  is  worse  than  we 
thought.  It  causes  a  lot  of  health  effects  today, 
at  levels  that  we  see  in  the  City  and  County  of  San 
Francisco  and  other  major  metropolitan  areas.  And 
it  is  something  you  really  need  to  think  about  when 
we're  doing  planning. 

I  think  that  planning  in  a  community 
perhaps  has  a  way  to  go  yet,  in  thinking  about  how 
land  use  and  transportation  relates  to  air  quality 
and  the  health  significance  of  some  of  your 
decisions.  So  I'm  going  to  frame  these  comments 
with  that. 

I  think  that  air  pollution  is  very 
important  on  behalf  of  the  community,  and  we  need  to 
take  the  analysis  very  seriously  for  a  project  like 


Page  56 


10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


of  air  pollutants.  It  is  looking  at  the  older 
standards  for  particulate  matter  and  so  on.  It  is 
not  looking  at  newer  standards  that  have  been 
adopted  in  the  last  few  years  by  the  US  EPA  and  by 
the  State,  that  correspond  to  some  of  this  emerging 
research  about  health  effects  of  particulate  matter 
and  other  pollutants. 

So  the  analysis  is  very  severely  flawed, 
and  I  believe  that  staff  needs  to  go  back  and  look 
at  the  current  standards  that  have  been  adopted, 
that  are  closer  to  reflecting  what  we  know  about 
these  effects,  and  think  about  how  it  would  relate 
to  this  project.  [  Thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Liz  Linal? 

MS.  LIZ  LINAL:  Liz  Linal,  a  resident  of 
Bemal  Heights,  148  Park  Street.  I  also  work  for 
Cole  Hardware,  but  I'm  also  here  as  a  resident. 


123 


I  have  heard  all  the  comments,  and  I'm  a 
lay  person  reading  a  draft  EIR,  as  well  as  the 
supplemental  traffic  report,  and  I  can  tell  you  with 
my  yellow  highlighter  that  I  got  very  concerned 
about  the  "F"  marking  on  traffic  studies,  as  well  as 
the  D's,  and  the  projection  out  to  2015  —  with 
nothing  taken  into  consideration  about  the  proposal 
that  we  have  all  heard,  and  are  aware  of,  of  what 


103 


123 


9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  55 


Page  57 


this,  where  congestion  is  a  major  issue. 

The  second  big  point  I  wanted  to  make  is 
that  vehicle  pollution  in  cities  now  is  one  of  the 
most  important  sources  of  air  pollution.  So  when 
you  think  about  what  kind  of  pollution  levels  we're 
seeing,  a  lot  of  it  comes  from  vehicles.  So  how  we 
manage  land,  transportation,  etc.,  to  a  large  extent 
determines  what  we  have  in  the  way  of  air  pollution, 
and  then  related  health  effects.  So  all  these 
things  go  together.  And  I  think  it  is,  as  I  say, 
very  important  to  analyze  them  in  a  serious  and 
well-grounded  way. 

Now  I  don't  think  that  this  draft 
environmental  impact  report  does  that.  And  I'm 
speaking  to  you  as  someone  who  has  some  expertise  in 
this  area.  I'm  not  being  a  consultant  to  anyone, 
but  I  do  have  research  and  teaching  appointments  at 
the  UC-Berkeley  School  of  Public  Health,  and  the 
area  of  environmental  health  sciences  is  my  area  of 
expertise.  I  have  a  PhD  in  that  area,  and  I  have 
published  research  on  air  pollution  and  children's 
health  and  so  on.  I'm  speaking  to  you  just  as  a 
resident  who  has  some  expertise  in  this  area. 

But  what  this  D-EIR  does  not  do  is  it 
doesn't  look  at  the  current  knowledge  of  the  effects 


1  else  is  going  to  be  happening  in  the  corridor. 

2  I'm  asking  you  to  take  a  look  at  the  big 

3  picture.  As  a  third-generation  San  Franciscan,  San 

4  Francisco  has  been  well  known  for  not  planning 

5  ahead,  and  I'm  asking  you  as  commissioners  to  please 

6  look  at  the  future  for  the  Bernal  Heights  area,  as 

7  well  as  the  Bay  View  and  surrounding  areas.  

8  Thank  you. 

9  PRESIDENT  BELL:  Linda  Cook,  followed  by 

1 0  Ted  Herzberg,  and  then  Rosanne  Liggett. 

11  MS.  LINDA  COOK:  I'm  Linda  Cook.)  I  am  a 

12  manager  of  a  small  business  in  San  Francisco  that's 

13  Cole  Hardware,  and  I  cannot  believe  that  people  are 

14  not  paying  attention  to  the  fact  of  how  much  small 

15  business  would  be  lost  because  of  Home  Depot  coming 

16  in.  People  need  to  be  more  aware  of  that. 

1 7  The  beauty  of  San  Francisco,  and  as  a 

18  resident  for  15  years,  is  that  there  are  small 

1 9  neighborhoods,  and  they've  got  cute  little  coffee 

20  shops  and  the  hardware  store  and  all  this.  This 

21  will  all  be  gone.  Mainly  the  cool  little  hardware 

22  store  will  be  gone  because  of  Home  Depot,  and  Home 

23  Depot  will  bring  in  the  other  stores. 

24  Home  Depot  is  an  anchor,  and  they  will 

25  bring  other  stores,  which  will  make  these  little 


103 


153 


15  (Pages  54  to  57) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 


F-17 


July  10,  2003 


153 

4 

5 
6 

7  " 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13  ' 
14 
15 
16 

63 

19 

20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  58 

neighborhoods  not  be  able  to  be  in  business,  as  most 
of  them  can't  afford  rent.  How  can  they  afford  to 
compete  with  these  big  boxes? 

And  by  the  way,  for  all  the  people  that 
do  not  know  where  to  go  shop  except  Home  Depot,  come 
to  me.  I'm  on  29th  and  Mission. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Focus  on  the  D-EIR. 

Dan  Herzberg;  Rosanne  Liggett;  Brent 
Daniel. 

MS.  ROSANNE  LIGGETT:  My  name  is  Rosanne 
Liggett,  and  I'm  a  resident  of  Bernal  Heights,  and  a.i 
long-time  resident  of  San  Francisco.  And|l  think 
that  this  Home  Depot  proposal  is  huge,  and  will  have 
a  big  negative  impact  on  Bernal  Heights  and  the 
surrounding  area,  including  the  traffic  on  the 
entrances  and  exits  off  of  the  freeways  on  either 
side  of  the  proposed  project,  and  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard  and  Cortland  —  which  I  think  people  who 
have  spoken  about  people  not  using  Cortland 
Avenue  as  an  avenue  —  as  a  means  of  getting  to  Home 
Depot  —  is  completely  wrong. 

The  Home  Depot  is  proposing  a  giant 
project;  they  are  expecting  to  have  a  lot  of 
business.  And  they  are  out  building  a  three-story 
parking  structure  at  the  end  of  Cortland  Street,  not 


Page  60 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


shelves,  and  storage  of  things  up  high.  People  have 
been  known  to  be  injured.   


129 


Customers,  welcome  to  the  store. 

So  I  think  that's  the  issue  that  hasn't 
been  addressed  as  well.  And  then  on  the  way  over 
here  today  —  there  was  one  more  thing  I  wanted  to 
say.  But... 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Brent  Daniel. 

MR.  BRENT  DANIEL:  Good  evening.  Thank 
you  for  this  opportunity  to  speak  to  you  today.  It 
is  a  first  time  for  me;  it  is  kind  of  exciting. 

My  name  is  Brent  Daniel.  I  live  at  437 
Prentice  Street.  It  is  adjacent  —  near  the  Bernal 
Heights  neighborhood.   


I  urge  you  to  treat  the  D-EIR  with  great 
skepticism,  because  basically  I'm  very  skeptical 
about  it.  Basically  I  have  three  examples  to  share 
which  breeded  my  skepticism. 

The  first  is  the  Colma  Home  Depot.  I 
have  visited  there  before,  and  I  can  remember 
consistently  waiting  several  minutes  or  more  —  and 
that's  just  off  memory,  and  perhaps  was  even 
longer  —  to  simply  enter  the  driveway.  And  I  can 
only  imagine  that  that  would  be  the  case  for  a  store 
that  is  considerably  larger  than  the  Home  Depot 


94 


63 


6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 


129 


22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  59 


Page  67 


expecting  people  to  come  through  there?  So  I  think 
that  we're  going  to  have  a  big  problem  impact. 

One  thing  I  would  like  to  address  also, 
and  hasn't  been  spoken  to,  is  I  don't  believe  the 
D-EIR  adequately  addresses  the  impact  that  traffic 
will  have  on  the  side  streets  of  Bernal  Heights, 
which  are  very  narrow.  And  at  present  one  car  at  a 
time  can  pass  through  a  lot  of  the  side  streets  on 
either  side  of  Cortland,  and  as  of  now,  we  have  to 
do  a  choreographed  dance,  and  politely  allow  another 
person  to  pass,  because  two  cars  at  a  time  can't  go 
down  those  streets. 

And  so  I'm  expecting  that  if  traffic 
increases  on  Cortland,  that  the  side  streets  will 
become  even  more  congested  —  which  they  really 
cannot  handle  any  more  cars. 

The  other  thing  I  would  like  to  say  is  I 
think  the  issue  of  earthquake  safety  and  seismic 
safety  has  not  been  adequately  addressed  in  the 
D-EIR.  Some  of  the  big-box  stores  have  been  known 
to  inadequately  have  their  things  stored  on  shelves, 
and  people  have  been  injured  in  stores  from  things 
falling  off  of  these  shelves.  And  I  don't  think 
that  the  earthquake  safety  has  been  adequately 
addressed  in  San  Francisco  for  these  kind  of 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


store  as  proposed  for  this  property. 


The  other  example  that  I  would  like  to 
share  is  the  condition  of  getting  off  the  freeway  in 
Emeryville,  outside  Ikea.  I  don't  have  the  figures 
on  that,  but  I  think  probably  comparable  with  what 
you  have  proposed  here,  and  it  strikes  me  that  we 
would  be  facing  a  similar  condition  on  freeways 
surrounding  this  proposed  Home  Depot  project.  And 
consequently  it  would  have  a  very  significant 
traffic  impact.  So  basically  I  intuitively  feel  it 
probably  underestimates  the  impact,  so  I  would  urge 
you  to  look  for  greater  study  of  that.  


The  third  area  is  the  D-EIR  was  looking 
at  side  streets  in  the  neighborhood.  I'm  realizing 
that  today  I  will  probably  no  longer  go  down  Putnam 
Street,  which  is  a  feeder  on  to  Alemany,  because 
every  time  I  go  down  that  street  I  take  my  life  in 
my  hands  and  I'm  thinking,  "If  there  is  more 
traffic,  I  can  only  imagine  considerable  traffic 
accidents  if  not  fatalities  as  a  result  of  such  an 
increase  in  traffic." 

So  I  urge  great  skepticism  with  respect 
to  the  D-EIR  and  its  effect  on  traffic,  and 
consequently  its  spillover  impact  on  air  pollution, 
and  I  urge  you  to  reject  it  and  look  for  a  stronger 


94 


83 


113 


16  (Pages  58  to  61) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-18 


July  10,  2003 


113 


Page  62 


67 


12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

11 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23^ 

24 

25 


and  more  thorough  evaluation. 

Thank  you  very  much  for  your  time  this 
evening. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  I  have  Douglas  Holloway. 

MR.  DOUGLAS  HOLLOWAY:  Good  evening, 
Commissioners.  My  name  is  Douglas  Holloway,  201 
Bennington  Street  in  Bernal  Heights.^]  I  have  lived 
there  for  about  15  years;  lived  in  the  city  for  30 
years. 

I  was  just  looking  at  the  map  here.  I 
think  it  has  been  pointed  out  that  the  main  entrance 
and  exit  is  Cortland  Avenue.  So  we're  talking  about 
Cortland  Avenue,  which  is  already  congested  all 
throughout  the  day,  early  in  the  morning  through 
late  in  the  evening,  serving  as  a  driveway  into  this 
gigantic  Home  Depot  project.  And  I  think  that  this 
draft  does  not  adequately  address  the  traffic 
impact. 

We're  also  going  to  be  talking  about  — 
they  talk  about  vehicles.  They  just  say  "vehicles." 
150  vehicles  per  hour  are  going  to  be  added  at  peak 
times. 

What  they  don't  specify  is  what  kind  of 
vehicles.  We're  not  talking  about  electric  cars  and 
Volkswagen  bugs.  We  are  talking  about  vans;  we're 


Page  64 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


trips  on  a  Saturday  would  not  be  significant.  They 
are  saying  that  would  not  be  a  significant  impact, 
and  I  disagree  with  that. 

There's  been  a  lot  of  talk  about  people 
are  projecting  there  will  be  additional  traffic  on 
Cortland.  But  living  in  Bernal,  the  only  way  to  get 
out  of  that  neighborhood  to  the  rest  of  the  city  is 
either  on  Mission  or  Bayshore. 

And  I  think  what  a  new  Home  Depot  would 
do  is  block  up  Bayshore,  and  that's  what  would  make 
Cortland  back  up,  because  everyone  trying  to  get  to 
work  from  Bernal  area  would  be  backing  up  —  which 
to  me  feels  very  —  almost  a  dangerous  situation, 
where  people  in  a  neighborhood  cannot  actually  exit 
their  neighborhood  to  get  to  work.   


I  think  there's  a  type  of  air 
particulates  that  go  into  air  that  were  not  studied 
in  this  EIR.  The  PM  2.5's  are  more  dangerous  than 
the  1 0's  —  this  is  something  that  was  not  studied, 
and  something  I  heard  from  an  expert  in  this.  So  I 
would  like  to  see  more  study  in  that;  more  study  on 
cancer  effects  of  the  air  pollution  that's  going  to 
be  added  to  our  neighborhood.  But  I  think  saying 
that  the  air  pollution  that's  being  added  to  our 
neighborhood  is  not  significant:  I  also  disagree 


67 


10 


125 

13 
14 
15 

67 

18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 

64 


Page  63 

talking  about  large  pickup  trucks;  we're  talking 
about  delivery  tracks,  for  that  matter,  going  back 
and  forth  across  Cortland. 

They  are  not  going  to  all  make  it  over  in 
that  hour,  because  there's  going  to  be  a  huge 
congestion  along  there.  It  is  going  to  take  more 
than  an  hour  to  get  across  the  hill  if  we  start 
adding  all  this  traffic.  They  are  going  to  start 

going  off  on  side  streets;  there  is  going  to  be  

idling;  stopping;  starting. \  You  are  going  toliaVe 
an  increase  in  air  pollution  beyond  what  has  been 
specified  here  in  the  draft. 

So  I  think  those  two  issues  you  have  to 
look  at  very  carefully. 

And  really  I  urge  you,  rather  than  just 
reading  these  things  and  listening  to  people,  just 
drive  over  to  the  area  where  this  project  is 
proposed:  drive  down  to  Colma;  look  at  the 
congestion  that  Home  Depot  causes,  and  just  use 
common  sense.  

Gretchen  Mokery. 

Gretchen  Mokery, 


PRESIDENT  BELL: 

MS.  GRETCHEN  MOKERY: 
308  Hanover. 

I  disagree  with  the  finding  in  the 
D-EIR  that  776  trips  during  a  weekday  or  1 , 1 00  added 


2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


with  that.  I  believe  it  would  be  very  significant. 


And  I  also  feel  that  the  EIR  is  really 
trying  to  push  the  largest  —  that  they  have  three 
options  of  development,  and  they  are  trying  to  push 
the  biggest  one.  They  might  want  to  look  at  the 
60,000-square-foot  in  more  detail  -  which  is  more 
in  the  nature  and  scale  and  character  of  the  area. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Julie  Milbum,  and  then 
John  Daniel.  Edith  Lule?  Tina  Rottolo?  Eventually 
I  will  just  put  the  cards  down. 

MR.  JOHN  DANIEL:  Since  no  one  else  is 


have 
and 


stepping  up,  my  name  is  John  Daniel,  andjl 
lived  for  20  years  at  the  comer  of  Cortland 
Prospect. 

I'm  very  concerned  about  the  future  when 
I  hear  another  1 ,200  cars  going  through  every  hour. 
Because  why  would  you  use  Cortland  to  get  over  there 
when  everyone  says  "Well,  it  is  too  crowded"?  Well, 
the  reason  is  because  Cesar  Chavez  has  a  lot  of  stop 
lights  that  one  would  have  to  stop  at,  whereas 
Cortland  has  stop  signs.  So  people  blow  through  the 
stop  signs. 

My  experience  living  at  Cortland  and 
Prospect  is  that  when  I  want  to  go  up  and  shop  at 
The  Good  Life  Grocery,  for  example,  trying  to  cross 


17  (Pages  62  to  65) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-19 


1 

2 
3 
4 

70 

7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 

70 

4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 

90 

12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


July  10,  2003 


Page  66 


the  street  you  can  take  your  life  in  your  hands  at 
some  times,  because  the  people  that  drive  through  a 
neighborhood  —  my  attitude  when  I'm  in  a 
neighborhood  is  that  I'm  in  my  neighborhood  walking 
around,  but  when  someone  is  driving  through  my 
neighborhood  trying  to  get  somewhere  at  rush  hour, 
their  attitude  is  I'm  in  the  way,  and  I  shouldn't  be 
crossing  the  street.  And  if  I  do,  "Screw  you." 

I  have  had  that  happen.  I  have  been  hit 
by  a  car  before  in  my  life;  it  is  a  very  frightening 
experience.  And  I  was  almost  hit  by  a  car  outside 
The  Good  Life  Grocery,  from  people  who  just  say, 
"Well,  the  residents  are  in  the  way,  and  they  should 
wait  for  the  cars  to  go."  And  they  don't  know  who 
has  the  right  of  way  in  a  crosswalk. 

At  Cortland-Prospect,  when  cars  come  over 
the  hill  and  they  see  the  deadlocked  cars  backed  up 
for  a  block  going  down  to  Mission  Street,  going 
westward  on  Cortland,  they  take  a  right  on  Prospect, 
oftentimes  in  an  SUV  taking  it  like  a  Porsche. 

There  is  like  the  gunning  acceleration, 
and  "I've  got  my  radial  tires  on,  and  my  anti-sway 
bars,  and  I  can  go  35  miles  an  hour"  —  through  a 
street  that  would  be  better  built  for  like  1 5  miles 
an  hour.  And  that's  just  the  way  they  are. 


Page  68 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Bemal  Heights  it  is  a  grueling  hill  on  a  bicycle, 
and  every  provision  should  be  made  for  allowing 
bicycle  riding  through  an  area  that  is  a  cutout 
between  the  hills  —  which  is  what  Bayshore  is. 

And  I  don't  see  any  planning  about  that 
in  the  environmental  impact  report;  I  think  it  is 
very  important  for  the  people  from  San  Bruno  Avenue. 


90 


PRESIDENT  BELL:  Larry  Dean? 
MR.  LARRY  DEAN:  Commission,  my  name  is 
Larry  Dean,  and|l'm  a  resident  of  Bernal  Heights; 


been  there  about  seven  years.  And  I  at  least  tried 
to  read  the  D-EIR,  and  couldn't  very  well,  but  I  did 
look  at  the  charts. 

I'm  not  an  expert  on  any  of  this;  I  don't 
know  anything  about  traffic  and  urban  development 
and  all  that  stuff  that  has  been  talked  about  by  the 
people  that  know  more.  But  the  sense  that  I  got 
from  the  report,  which  I  think  everybody  has  agreed 
upon  —  those  for  and  against  —  is  that  traffic 
will  definitely  increase  in  that  area,  and  the  air 
quality  will  be  worse.  It  is  only  a  degree  of 
whether  people  think  it  is  going  to  be  a 
not-significant  increase  or  a  significant  increase, 
and  I  think  that  that  determines  where  people  stand. 
But  it  is  definitely  going  to  get  worse  in  all 


100 


Page  67 


Page  69 


I  clean  up  the  front  of  our  house  that  we 
live  in,  and  get  the  soot  off  of  it,  and  within 
three  days  or  so  there  is  another  coating  of  black 
soot  on  the  white  paint. 


And  I  have  something  else  to  say: 
Bayshore  is  a  cutout.  If  you  are  on  a  bicycle,  and 
you  want  to  get  from  San  Bruno  Avenue,  for  example, 
where  I  went  recently  on  my  bicycle,  just  to  see 
what  was  happening  down  south.  Because  usually  I'm 
like  headed  toward  San  Francisco;  I  don't  go  down 
south;  I'm  like  going  towards  in  San  Francisco. 

But  when  I  went  down  to  San  Bruno 
recently  I  noticed  there  were  bike  lanes  there.  And 
I  was  saying,  "How  the  heck  would  someone  get  from 
San  Bruno  —  where  I  have  a  friend  who  lives  down 
there,  and  I  was  trying  to  purchase  the  right  bike 
—  How  do  you  get  from  San  Bruno  to  downtown  San 
Francisco  to  commute?"  And  I'm  asking  you  to  plan 
for  the  future. 

This  is  the  time  to  plan  for  the  future; 
not  at  some  future  time  when  you  think,  "Well,  maybe 
if  the  problem  gets  bad  enough  we  can  start  planning 
for  it." 

The  time  to  plan  for  it  is  now,  and  there 
is  no  way  that  —  going  up  Cortland  or  going  up  to 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


areas. 

So  I  would  just  like  to  say  on  that 
alone,  just  on  the  D-EIR,  I  would  be  opposed  to  a 
150,000-square-foot  home  improvement  store  that 
would  increase  traffic  by  over  700  cars  on  a 
weekday,  and  1 , 1 00  on  a  weekend.  I  think  that's  a 
significant  amount  to  anyone. 

And  I  don't  make  it  to  City  Hall  very 
often,  and  I  certainly  never  made  it  to  one  of  these 
hearings,  but  I  was  very,  very  happy  to  hear  that  on 
a  previous  item  you  said  that  you  are  a  transit 
first;  you  have  a  transit-first  policy.  I  don't  see 
how  anyone  reading  this  D-EIR  could  interpret  it  by 
any  means  being  a  transit-first  policy.  


100 


So  thank  you  for  your  time. 

MR.  CHARLES  ABRAMS:  Good  afternoon  --  or 
good  evening,  Commissioners.  My  name  is  Charles 
Abrams.l  I  am  a  traffic  engineer,  a  transportation 


planning  consultant  —  and  working  with  Cole 
Hardware  and  Sue  Hestor  on  this  project.  I'm  also 
on  the  City  Council,  and  have  been  on  the  Planning 
Commission  in  Walnut  Creek. 

I  have  reviewed  the  EIR  very  thoroughly, 
in  addition  to  all  the  traffic  studies  that 
accompany  it,  and  I  must  admit  that  what  really 


145 


18  (Pages  66  to  69) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-20 


July  10,  2003 


Page  70 


145 


6 

7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


struck  me  the  most  when  I  looked  at  the  final  result 
of  this  was  the  mitigation  measures  that  are  being 
put  on  Home  Depot's  part  of  this  project. 

There  are  three  mitigation  measures 
mentioned  in  the  report.  One  is  to  change  the 
signal  timing  at  Cortland  and  Bayshore;  there's 
another  one  to  remove  the  central  line  striping  over 
six  feet  to  make  some  new  lanes.  There  is  also  a 
left-turn  arrow  would  that  be  put  in  at  Bayshore  and 
Silver.  And  I  think  the  extent  of  these  mitigations 
don't  in  any  way  match  up  with  the  traffic  and  the 
issues  that  are  being  developed  as  a  part  of  this 
Home  Depot. 

This  project  will  generate,  as  has  been 
said,  about  a  thousand  vehicles  per  hour,  and  that's 
typical  of  most  of  the  big-box  stores  that  are  in 
that  range  of  800  to  1200. 

Consider  that  a  lane  of  traffic  on  the 
freeway  carries  about  2,000  cars  per  hour,  so  this 
project  is  the  equivalent  of  adding  another  half  a 
lane  of  traffic  on  the  freeway,  or  even  a  full  lane 
of  traffic  on  Bayshore  Boulevard.  Now  admittedly  it 
is  not  all  in  the  same  place  at  the  same  time,  but 
the  overall  impact  is  of  that  magnitude. 

The  City  of  San  Francisco  is  really,  I 


Page  72 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


running  out  time,  but  there's  an  awful  lot  of 
different  assumptions  that  go  into  that  process,  not 
the  least  of  which  is  the  other  development  in  the 
area;  growth  of  background  traffic;  the  existing 
counts  were  done  at  a  time  when  traffic  was  much 
lower  than  normal.   __ 


103 


I  am  submitting  many  of  these  comments  in 
writing. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Deborah  Levy.  And  after 
Deborah,  Bill  Nieto.  And  then  Rachel  Kesel. 

MS.  DEBORAH  LEVY:  Good  evening.  My  name 
is  Deborah  Levy,  and}!  live  in  Bernal,  1l03  Holly 


Park  Circle,  and  I'm  a  third  generation  San 
Franciscan. 

I  believe  that  the  D-EIR  makes  it  clear 
that  Home  Depot  on  Bayshore  is  not  going  to  be  good 
for  Bernal,  or  for  the  rest  of  the  city.  I  think 
that  it  completely  underestimates  the  traffic 
impacts,  and  not  only  that,  but  the  social  impacts 
this  will  have  on  the  city. 

I'm  going  to  start  by  talking  about  the 
two  things  that  affect  me  the  most.  I  have  two 
children,  and  one  is  in  5th  grade  and  one  is  in  high 
school.  The  5th  grader  relies  on  Laidlaw  buses,  the 
yellow  buses,  to  get  to  school,  as  do  most  of  the 


110 


145 


5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 


15 


103 


18 

19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  71 


Page  73 


think,  missing  the  boat  on  this  area  when  it  comes 
to  having  these  kinds  of  developers  having  to  pay 
their  fair  share.  I  note  the  City  does  have, 
certainly,  the  intent  to  have  new  development  pay 
its  fair  share  of  the  impacts  that  they  create. 
This  is  not  happening  with  this  project. 

An  equivalent  project  in  some  of  the 
suburban  locations  would  have  traffic  impact  pay, 
for  example,  that  might  be  $3,000  per  peak-hour  trip 
that  might  amount  to  $5  to  $8  million  towards 
traffic  improvements  that  go  in  to  support  this 
project. 

Another  part  of  this  really  deals  with 


14     specifically  the  mitigations  and  the  results  of]the 


cumulative  analysis  of  the  year  2015.  I  think,  in 
looking  at  all  of  these,  comparing  these  numbers  to 
the  existing  ones,  some  of  those  numbers  have  been 
greatly  understated. 

It  is  curious  that  all  five  of  the 
intersections  on  Bayshore  Boulevard  are  just 
ever-so-slightly  below  the  City  standard;  you  have  a 
standard  of  40  seconds  of  delay,  above  which 
mitigation  is  needed  to  be  made.  Five  of  the 
intersections  are  in  the  range  of  35  to  39  seconds 
of  delay,  and  there  are  so  many  —  if  I  will  —  I'm 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


kids  in  the  public  schools  in  the  city.  And  Laidlaw 
is  on  the  other  side  of  Bayshore. 

My  kids  get  on  the  school  bus  at  7:15  in 
the  morning  to  get  to  school,  and  the  kids  who  come 
from  Bay  View  get  on  that  bus  at  10  to  7:00.  I 
think  there  is  no  doubt  that  there  will  be  some 
delay  at  those  hours  on  Bayshore  because  of  the 
traffic.  Those  are  the  peak  hours  for  contractors 
and  carpenters  to  go  buy  stuff  at  a  place  like  Home 
Depot. 

So  Laidlaw:  Even  a  10-minute  delay  to 
have  those  kids  get  on  the  bus  at  Bay  View  at  close 
to  6:30  in  the  morning  --  is  close  to  denying  them 
the  option  of  even  going  to  school  at  some  of  the 
other  schools  in  the  city. 


My  other  son  takes  the  24  bus  to  high 
school.  It  mentions  it  in  the  D-EIR,  Page  5 1 ,  it 
mentions  that  it  will  affect  the  24  line.  As  of  now 
that  line  is  pretty  good.  Delays  on  that  are  going 
to  make  it  that  much  harder  for  him  to  go  to  the 
high  school  that  he's  chosen  on  the  other  side  of 
town. 

I  also  think  that  all  of  these  things 
will  be  affected  by  future  stores  that  will  come  in, 
and  in  every  other  community  where  Home  Depot  has 


110 


99 


19  (Pages  70  to  73) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-21 


July  10,  2003 


99 


Page  74 


2 
3 

163 

7 
8 
9 

10 
11 
12 
13 

14~ 

"1 

16 
17 
18 
19 

163 


22 
23 
24 
25 


gone,  additional  large  retail  stores  have  gone  in. 

And  I  think  that  to  have  a  strip  of  large 
retail  stores  there  will  divide  the  city  instead  of 
uniting  it.  It  will  make  it  almost  like  a  border, 
so  that  people  in  Bay  View  and  Visitation  Valley  and 
the  other  neighborhoods  over  there  who  will  want  to 
cross  town  to  go  to  school  and  work  —  it  will  be 
that  much  harder  for  them  to  do,  and  instead  what  we 
need  is  a  mixed  use;  a  mid-sized  retail  development. 

I  agree  with  the  people  who  say  we  need 
something  there.  We  do  need  something  there,  and  a 
hardware  store  would  be  great  there.  But  we  need  it 
in  a  size  and  on  levels  that  fit  with  our  community. 

I  think  that  is  all  I  had  to  say.j  So  I 
urge  you  to  reject  this. 

MR.  BILL  NIETO:  Hi.  My  name  is  Bill 
Nieto;  I  have  lived  at  228  Gates  since  January  4, 
1945,  at  the  ripe  age  of  seven  days  old.  1 1  am  a 
native;  my  father  also  grew  up  in  San  Francisco,  and 
my  mother  is  from  Potrero  Hill,  and  I  hear  a  lot  of 
people  talking  about  --  in  this  meeting  like  you 
have  here  —  we  all  have  the  same  feelings,  but  we 
want  it  in  somebody  else's  back  yard.  But  Bay  View 
wants  this  over  there. 

It  is  a  common-sense  deal.  We're  talking 


Page  76 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 
10 
11 
12* 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


membership  in  Local  85  has  probably  dropped  —  it 
was  about  5,000  to  8,000  thousand  members,  and  now 
there's  maybe  600  members. 

We're  talking  local  people  here  that  are 
born  and  raised,  and  it  is  unbelievable  for  people 
to  think  that  Home  Depot  is  going  to  come  in  there 
and  help  them,  and  put  them  back  to  work,  and  stuff 
like  this.  It  is  just  not  going  to  happen. 


I  cross  down  on  the  bottom  of  Bayshore 
every  morning  going  to  work,  and  it  is  already 
backed  up.  {And  it  is  incredible  that  people  think 


that  there's  not  going  to  be  any  difference  in 
pollution  and  stuff  like  that. 

I'm  58  years  old.  I  go  to  the  gym  every 
day.  I  don't  smoke;  I  don't  drink;  I'm  in  perfect 
health.  I'll  go  to  Colma  right  up  the  street. 

If  something  happens  to  me,  who  is  going 
to  be  responsible  for  this?  My  son  and  daughter? 
My  father  died  from  emphysema,  from  smoking;  a 
terrible  death.  That's  what  I'm  worried  about.  [And 
I've  got  about  seven  seconds,  and  I'm  going  to  say 
good-bye  and  have  a  good  day. 

MS.  RACHEL  KESEL:  My  name  is  Rachel 


157 


113 


120 


Kesel,  and  I'm  a  cyclist,  and]I  come  from  just  west 
of  Bernal  Heights  in  my  job  that  I  have  been  working 


90 


163 

5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13~ 
14 

113 

17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 

157 

25 


Page  75 


Page  77 


common  sense.  I  mean  look  at  Home  Depot  in  Colma. 
They  did  a  beautiful,  magnificent  job  over  there. 
They  did  so  well  they  built  one  right  up  the  street. 
And  if  you  go  and  visit  it  on  the  weekend  —  I  shop 
at  Home  Depot;  I'm  not  going  to  drive  to  Home  Depot. 

And  I  urge  you  —  small  business  people 
that  are  down  at  the  bottom  of  Cortland  Avenue  are 
supporting  Home  Depot.  Mr.  Caldwell  —  I  was  over 
there  looking  at  railroad  ties  at  his  place.  Home 
Depot  has  the  same  railroad  tie  for  $13.47;  he  has 
them  for  $12.00.  How  long  do  you  think  that's  going 
to  last? 


The  traffic  alone  on  Gates  Street  —  I 
live  a  half  a  block  off  Cortland;  it  is  a  fun 
street,  where  I've  got  to  go  across  to  get  to  my 
neighborhood  grocery  store  —  which  I  use  all  the 
time.  There  is  only  one  crosswalk;  there  is  no  room 
for  a  stop  sign.  And  you  cannot  cross  that  street 
there  right  now. 

I'm  not  talking  about  with  Home  Depot  in 
there.  {And  I'm  a  professional  truck  driver;  I  drive 
a  truck  for  a  living.  I  have  been  driving  a  truck 
since  1965. 

The  job  there  is  going  to  be  lost. 
People  don't  realize  since  I  have  been  driving  our 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


for  three  years  —  which  is  a  block  off  of  Bayshore 
on  Jerrold  Avenue. 

On  Monday  night  I  saw  a  cyclist  get  hit 
by  a  car  on  Oakdale  at  Bayshore,  so  it  is  already 
happening.  I  didn't  speak  to  the  fact  that  I  get 
spit  at  and  yelled  at  and  having  things  thrown  at  me 
by  people  coming  off  of  Cortland,  turning  on  to 
Bayshore.  So  when  I  see  these  other  people,  who  are 
going  to  be  impatient  —  1 ,200  more  cars  per  hour  as 
I'm  coming  from  my  job  —  what  are  they  going  to  do? 
Are  they  going  to  run  me  off  the  road? 


There  is  a  lot  of  air  pollution  already 
down  there.  I'm  not  there  in  my  car  breathing 
filtered  air  through  my  heater  or  my  air 
conditioner.  I  smell  the  diesel  that's  already  down 
there  from  the  big  trucks. 

If  they  are  going  idling  on  Bayshore 
while  I'm  cycling,  it  is  going  to  hurt  my  lungs.  By 
2015  they  are  talking  about  on  ramps  are  going  to  be 
packed. 


The  buses  down  there  are  all  great.  They 
are  equipped  with  bike  racks,  that  help  people  like 
me  get  over  the  big  hill.  And  those  buses  are  also 
going  to  be  impacted  —  not  just  the  24  and  9,  but 
also  the  23  that  comes  from  Crescent  —  which  will 


90 


125 


99 


20  (Pages  74  to  77) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-22 


July  10,  2003 


99 


2 

I  3 

94 


135 

10 
II  _ 
12~ 

146 

15 
16 
17 
18 
19_ 

163 

23 
24 
25 


Page  78 


also  suffer  greatly. 

The  D-EIR  also  speaks  to  say  that  there 
will  be  a  loss  of  some  public  parking  spaces  down 
there,  and  I  don't  really  know  who  uses  those 
spaces,  but  I  wonder  if  they  are  going  to  be  able  to 
park  on  the  lot  at  Home  Depot. 

There's  also  going  to  be  growth 
inducement.  I  don't  think  that  was  spoken  to  enough 
in  the  D-EIR.  If  we're  going  to  let  Pier  1  come  in 
after  this,  I  don't  think  that's  going  to  be  in  any 
way  mitigating  to  the  traffic. 

I  don't  think  that  Home  Depot's 
mitigation  requirements  are  strong  enough.  I  think 
that  they  should  pay  for  them,  not  the  City.  If 
this  is  a  transit-first  commission,  then  I  think  you 
should  really  be  representing  people  such  as  myself, 
who  are  trying  to  reduce  air  pollution  by  taking 
bicycles  and  utilizing  Muni.  Samtrans  will  also  be 
affected. 


Visitation  Valley  didn't  want  Home  Depot 
and  they  fought  them  off.  And  Bemal  Heights  will, 
too.,  ^Thanks. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Joseph  Smook?  Followed 
by  Chris  Wittman,  and  then  Dora  Steinberg. 

MR.  JOSEPH  SMOOK:  Good  evening, 


Page  80 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


be  evaluated  how  the  increased  traffic  impacts 
pedestrian  safety.  And  conversely,  once  there  are 
mitigations  made  because  of  the  traffic-calming 
measures,  those  will  additionally  impact  the  way 
traffic  flows  through  the  Bernal  Heights 
neighborhood.  So  it  goes  both  ways.  So  that  will 
actually  impact  the  way  that  people  get  to  the  store 
through  the  neighborhood.  


The  other  thing  is  simply  just  a  planning 
note.  Right  now  there  are  two  major  vacant  sites  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard.  There  is  an  opportunity  for 
development  to  create  a  sense  of  place  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard,  and  this  has  not  been  addressed  by  — 
will  not  be  addressed  by  a  large,  big  box  retail 
outlet. 


54 


23 


Those  are  my  only  comments.  Thank  you. 

MR.  CHRIS  WITTMAN:  Good  evening.  My 
name  is  Chris  Wittman,  andlf  live  right  near  the 
corner  of  Nevada  and  Cortland.  I'm  not  affiliated 
with  any  group  here  tonight.  I  would  like  to 
address  a  couple  of  things  with  the  EIR. 

One,  I  heard  some  talk  tonight  that  Home 
Depot  has  made  a  change  of  their  entrance  to  Loomis 
Street.  Now  I  would  submit  to  you  if  they  have 
materially  changed  their  proposal,  and  that  is  a 


1 

2  ' 

3 
4 
5 
6 

54 

9 
10 
11 
12. 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  79 


Page  81 


Commissioners. 


I  work  at  Bernal  Heights  Neighborhood 
Center,  and  just  a  couple  of  comments.  There  have 
been  a  lot  of  comments  made  regarding  the  traffic 
and  environmental  impact  report. 

One  point  —  actually  two  points  that  I 
would  like  to  make  are  first,  regarding  the 
Department  of  Parking  and  Traffic's  detailed 
traffic-calming  study  that  was  made  in  the  Bernal 
Heights  neighborhood:  It  was  a  very  comprehensive 
study,  and  Bernal  Heights  neighborhood  was  made  a 
pilot  project  by  the  Department  of  Parking  and 
Traffic,  partly  because  of  activism  from  the 
neighbors  in  Bernal  Heights,  and  partly  because 
there  was  a  significant  traffic  impact  and 
subsequent  pedestrian  safety  impact  in  Bemal 
Heights  currently. 

And  the  Department  of  Parking  and 
Traffic's  traffic  calming  study  and  subsequent 
recommendations  for  modifying  the  routing  and  making 
provisions  for  mitigating  the  current  traffic 
impacts  has  not  been  referenced  in  the  D-EIR.  It 
needs  to  be. 

It  actually  kind  of  goes  both  ways.  One 
is  the  increased  traffic  from  the  store,  it  needs  to 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


material  change,  that  you  then  have  to  go  back  and 
re-look  at  your  figures  here. 


My  second  observation:  jThere  seems  to  be 
a  lot  of  questioning  about  what  the  metrics  are,  and 
how  the  measurements  were  made.  I  work  across  the 
street  at  California  Public  Utilities  Commission, 
and  we  require  applicants  there  on  issues  like  this 
to  provide  the  underlying  data  in  electronic  format 
that  could  be  searchable.  The  question  is,  "What  is 
the  underlying  data  here  from  which  these 
conclusions  here  are  drawn?"  


40 


The  third  point  I  would  like  to  make: 


You  are  all  planning  professionals;  I'm  sure  you 
have  heard  of  Jane  Jacobs,  a  woman  who  wrote  about 
community,  and  I  don't  know  if  this  is  coming  under 
the  rubric  of  an  EIR,  but  it  seems  to  me  that  an 
environmental  impact  is  a  sort  of  immunity  bill,  and 
if  we're  going  to  have  big-box  alley  down  there, 
we're  going  to  have  a  deracinated,  sterile  community 
like  you  have  now  in  Colma. 

I  think  that  should  have  been  looked  at: 
how  this  will  tie  in  with  transit;  how  it  will  tie 
in  with  foot  traffic  -  I  don't  see  any  of  that  


here.  1 1  also  don't  see  also  mention  in  this  D-EIR 


of  parking  impacts  on  Cortland. 


09 


95 


21  (Pages  78  to  8 1] 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-23 


July  10,  2003 


95 

5 
6 
7 
8 
9 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 

67 

23 
24 
25 


Page  82 


You  go  to  Good  Life  Grocery  or  the  other 
stores  on  Cortland,  and  you  can't  find  a  parking 
spot.  People  are  circling  the  blocks.  We  have  the 
Union  Street/Noe  Valley  syndrome  —  driving  around 
five  or  ten  minutes  before  you  find  a  parking  spot. 
That  then  spreads  the  pressure  out  to  the  side, 
'  capillary  streets. 

So  none  of  that  seems  to  have  been 
mentioned  here,  and  I  just  think  that  there  needs  to 
be  more  data  and  more  study  about  the  impacts  all 
around  the  neighborhood 


I  have  a  letter;  should  I  give  that  to 
your  secretary? 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Yes,  please. 
Dory  Steinberg? 

MR.  DORY  STEINBERG:  I  have  lived, 
unfortunately,  in  the  same  one-bedroom  apartment  on 
Gladys  Street  in  San  Francisco  since  1985. 


When  I  first  moved  here,  Myrtle,  the  main 
corridor  to  Cortland  was  a  relative  ghost  town,  and 
at  night  you  take  your  life  in  your  hands  walking 
around  there;  there  is  a  lot  of  drug  activity. 
Bemal  has  emerged  to  be  one  of  the  jewel 
neighborhoods  in  San  Francisco  --  but  with  a  price. 
And  right  now  in  this  report  it  talks  about  the  year 


Page  84 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


tricky  the  other  ways.  So  it  will  make  a  very,  I 
think,  profound  negative  impact  trafficwise,  and 
also  in  terms  of  air  pollution. 

In  addition,  I  would  also  —  this  is 
maybe  more  of  an  aside,  but  when  we  talk  about 
putting  a  retail  establishment  in  that  box,  I'm  sure 
that  San  Francisco  can  do  a  better  job  to  find  a 
mid-sized  retail  solution  that  would  deal  with  the 
youth  of  Bayview/Hunters  Point,  and  give  them 
meaningful  employment.  


67 


I  have  gone  to  Home  Depot.  It  is  kind  of 
an  experience  where  you  really  have  to  fend  for 
yourself,  and  really  know  what  you  want  going  in. 
The  salespeople  really  are  not  trained  for  a 
vocation  for  the  future.  These  are  dead-end  jobs. 

I'm  sure  there  is  some  sort  of 
establishment  that  you  can  put  in  there  that  can 
really  address  youth's  needs  for  employment,  so  they 
can  build  a  vocation  for  the  future.  This  does  not 
do  that.   ;  


35 


One  last  point  about  the  neighborhood 
quality  of  Bernal  Heights.  I'm  one  of  these  guys 
that  knows  very  little  about  home  improvement  and 
about  just  the  normal  fix-it  kind  of  things.  It  is 
a  great  story;  I'll  be  back.  Thank  you. 


67 


9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  83 


Page  85 


2015  that  the  ramps  will  be  all  jammed  up,  and  that 
there  will  be  problems  with  the  intersection  of 
Cortland  and  Bayshore. 

Well,  I  would  suggest  that  you  take  a 
nice  day  —  day  off,  or  sometime  in  the  weekend,  and 
travel  in  our  lovely  neighborhood,  and  find  out  for 
yourself  what  it  is  like  to  travel  down  Cortland  to 
Bayshore,  or  then  to  make  a  left  turn  and  try  to  get 
on  101. 

It  is  so  frustrating  that  half  the  time 
right  now  when  I  try  to  get  on  101,1  end  up  taking 
Potrero,  because  I  just  can't  deal  with  the  traffic 
and  the  queue  backing  up  to  101.  That's  right  now. 

I  work  at  KALW,  which  is  in  the  Burton 
High  School,  which  is  the  Silver  Avenue  exit,  so  a 
lot  of  times  I  come  down  Cortland  and  I  make  the 
right  turn  to  get  on  101,  so  I  know  what  I'm  talking 
about  when  right  this  moment  there's  heavy 
congestion  on  Cortland. 

I  mention  that  with  Home  Depot  coming  in 
and  whatever  else  may  follow,  that  people  in  Noe 
Valley,  Twin  Peaks  and  the  Castro  —  I  mean  it  is  a 
slam  dunk  that  they  are  going  to  come  through 
Mission  and  to  Cortland.  I  mean  that's  the 
short-cut;  that's  the  way  to  do  it.  It  is  too 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


PRESIDENT  BELL:  Eric  Gareharter. 
Followed  by  Eloise  Hatton.  And  then  Mark  Lynch. 

MR.  ERIK  GAREHARTER:  My  name  is  Erik 
Gareharter.  A  lot  of  people  talk  about  the  traffic 


on  Cortland.  Well,!  I  live  on  Cortland,  right  in  the 
commercial  heart  of  it  at  4:30.  It's  like  Wall 
Street.  I'm  also  self-employed,  working  at  my  home, 
and  use  my  car  frequently  for  my  job  —  which  is 
required. 

And  as  people  have  said,  and  as  I  know 
very  well,  Cortland  already  is  quite  a  mess.  One 
person  said  it  was  worse  in  the  morning  commute;  I 
would  agree  with  that  with  one  exception,  which  is 
the  evening  commute,  from  about  3:00  to  5:00.  We 
have  a  combination  of  double-parked  cars;  buses 
where  there  is  no  provision  to  pull  over. 

In  the  morning  there's  delivery  trucks, 
some  of  which  are  semis  that  come  up  there,  and  for 
example,  the  trucks  that  deliver  to  Bernal  B's, 
which  is  right  in  front  of  the  library,  right  next 
to  the  community  center  —  that  semi  is  sometimes 
the  length  of  the  entire  block. 

The  streets  are  extremely  congested  as 
they  are,  and  extremely  narrow.  There's  very  few 
options  to  get  from  western  neighborhoods  except 


68 


22  (Pages  82  to  85) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-24 


July  10,  2003 


Page  ! 


68 

5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 

36 

20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


through  Cortland.  People  use  it  now;  people  will 
continue  to  use  it. 

So  when  I  see  in  the  D-EIR  these  D's  and 
F's  at  some  of  these  intersections  like  Mission  and 
Cortland;  Andover  and  Cortland,  it  is  very 
frightening  to  me.  And  it  will  impact  on  my  work 
and  my  ability  to  do  my  assignments  —  to  do  my 
assignments  in  a  speedy  manner  and  a  necessary 
manner  to  meet  deadlines. 

So  I  urge  you  to  reject  this  EIR,  and 
look  for  a  more  suitable,  more  community-oriented 
development  for  that  area.)  Thank  you. 


MS.  ELOISE  PATTON:  Good  evening.  My 
name  is  Eloise  Patton  and  I'm  here  as  a  community 
resident.  I  have  been  in  the  community  for  45 
years,  and  there  are  some  concerns  regarding  the  EIR 
that  I  would  like  to  voice  at  this  time. 

There  are  some  inaccuracies,  as  far  as 
some  of  the  numbers  are  concerned.  We  all  know 
that.  There  are  several  of  them.  While  I  cannot 
address  all  of  them,  there  is  one  in  particular, 
which  is  the  employment  number,  that  is  of  great 
concern. 

Now  I  applaud  Home  Depot,  because  they 
have  been  made  aware  of  this  inaccuracy,  and  have 


Page  88 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 

I8 
9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 


I  talked  to  a  lot  of  supporters,  and  it 
is  as  if  they  haven't  picked  up  the  EIR.  Clearly 
the  traffic  impacts  and  the  pollution  impacts  are 
significant. 

This  notion  that  they  will  only  do  it 
once:  You  know  better  than  I  how  many  automobiles 
are  registered  in  San  Francisco.  What  is  it; 
200,000;  300,000;  400,000?  That's  a  lot  of  people 
only  doing  it  once,  to  start  with.  If  you  read  The 
Tipping  Point,  you  know  if  you  have  a  little  street 
like  this,  just  a  small  change  can  have  a  very  big 
impact.  And  I  think  you  are  seeing  some  of  the 
emotional  responses  to  this  today. 

This  whole  notion  that  people  will  use 
the  freeway:  If  I'm  going  through  town  I'll  use  the 
freeway;  if  I'm  coming  east-west  I'm  not  on  280  or 
101.  .  


One  of  the  points  that  was  made  earlier 
about  reconciliation  between  the  neighborhoods,  and 
between  areas:  I  want  to  emphasize  this. 
Throughout  this  we  have  made  efforts  to  reconcile  on 
both  a  personal  level  and  environmental  level  and 
virtually  every  level  —  economic  level.  We  really 
have  trouble  with  that,  and  I  think  the  Planning 
Commission  really  needs  to  look  at  that  —  how  we 


44 


24 


36 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16  ' 
17 

44 

20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  87 


Page  89 


stated  that  they  will  correct  it.  However,  the  same 
number  that  is  indicated  in  the  EIR  has  been  quoted 
time  and  time  and  time  again  at  community  meetings. 
So  is  that  to  say  that  those  numbers  that  were 
quoted  at  the  community  meetings  were  also 
inaccurate?  And  if  that's  the  case,  shouldn't  there 
be  other  community  meetings,  so  that  the  public  can 
be  made  aware  that  those  numbers  were  inaccurate? 

I  think  this  needs  to  be  addressed  in 
your  voting.  I  would  hope  you  would  consider  it. 
Thank  you.  — — 

MR.  MARK  LYNCH:  Mark  Lynch. 

Thank  you  all  for  your  ongoing  work  on 
this.  I'm  sure  you  have  spent  a  lot  of  time  on 
this. 


I  restored  an  1890  house,  and  I  spend  a 
lot  of  money  at  Home  Depot,  so  I  am  not 
ideologically  opposed,  and  I  resent  the  fact  that 
anybody  who  would  be  opposed  would  be  so. 

I  have  talked  to  a  lot  of  my  neighbors 
about  this.  My  name  is  Mark  Lynch;  I  live  at  105 
Richland  Avenue  in  Bernal.  And  I  talked  to  one 
neighbor  who  is  a  contractor,  and  he  says  that  it  is 
a  zoo  down  there,  and  he  can't  imagine  it  being  like 
this  up  here. 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21  ' 
22 
23 
24 
25 


resolve  this  issue,  and  certainly  future  issues  of 
reconciliation,  in  future  planning,  and  this 
planning,  especially.  


I  have  talked  to  other  neighbors,  who  are 
moms  and  dads,  and  they  are  especially  concerned 
about  pollution  issues.  I  think  it  is  clear  that 
the  EIR  —  existing  government  standards  for 
regional  emissions  for  ozone  —  are  unacceptable, 
and  there  is  no  way  to  ameliorate  this. 

Now  I  have  lost  —  and  I  don't  know  how 
much  you  have  lost  to  cancer.  I  lost  a  niece  at  29; 
a  one-year  old  child  to  skin  cancer.  This  is  the 
fastest-growing  cancer  in  the  United  States  in  our 
populace.  I  think  this  really  needs  to  be 
addressed.  In  addition,  teachers  and  parents  are 
concerned  about  emphysema  and  respiratory  issues. 

Thank  you. 

MS.  GINA  SOLOMON:  Members  of  the 
Commission,  good  evening.  My  name  is  Gina  Solomon, 
andfl'm  a  senior  scientist  at  the  Natural  Resources 


24 


125 


Defense  Council,  and  an  assistant  professor  of 
medicine  at  UC-San  Francisco.  I'm  here  tonight, 
however,  as  a  resident  of  Bernal  Heights. 

I  read  the  draft  EIR  with  great  interest, 
with  focus  particularly  on  the  air  quality  section, 


120 


23  (Pages  86  to  89) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-25 


July  10,  2003 


120 


9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 


116 


24 
25 


Page  90 


as  that  is  my  area  of  expertise.  And  I  have  some 
significant  concerns. 

Obviously  there's  a  threshold  concern, 
because  the  EIR  states  quite  clearly  that  there  is  a 
significant  unmitigatable  impact  on  reactive  organic 
gases  which,  as  you  know,  are  precursors  to  ozone. 

As  you  may  also  know,  there  is  quite  a 
body  of  epidemiological  literature  right  now  linking 
ozone  with  asthma,  particularly  in  children.  A 
major  study  in  the  past  year  published  down  in  Los 
Angeles  showed  that  children  who  play  sports 
outdoors  in  areas  where  the  ozones  are  high  —  are 
more  likely  to  develop  new-onset  asthma.  These  are 
kids  who  did  not  have  asthma  when  the  study  began, 
and  because  they  were  playing  sports  in  a  high-ozone 
area  they  developed  asthma. 

We  don't  want  to  go  there,  and  yet  the 
Bay  Area  is  now  designated  as  a  non-attainment  area 
for  ozone,  so  we  are  going  there,  and  we  do  need  to 
pull  back  from  the  brink. 

In  addition,  the  reactive  organic  gases 
that  are  ozone  precursors  are,  in  their  own  right, 
toxic  air  contaminants.  We're  talking  about 
volatile  organic  compounds  like  benzine, 
formaldehyde,  and  a  whole  series  of  other  VOCs  — 


Page  92 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Heights  is  flat.  Vehicles  that  go  up  and  down  hills 
are  known  to  generate  significantly  more  pollution. 
Thank  you. 

MS.  BIBI  GRJGG:  Hi,  I'm  BiBi  Grigg.  I'm 
a  Bernal  Heights  resident.  I  live  at  130  Highland, 
between  Mission  and  Holly  Park. 


118 


I  have  really  appreciated  hearing 
everyone's  comments  today,  and  I  am  also  concerned 
about  overflow  traffic;  traffic  on  Cortland;  all  of 
those  issues. 

The  one  thing  I  wanted  to  add  that  I 
haven't  heard  discussed  today  is  people  talk  about 
that  this  could  be  a  good  placement  for  a  Home  Depot 
because  there  are  freeway  off  ramps  right  next  to 
that  area. 

The  freeways  right  there  have  multiple, 
multiple,  multiple  merges  right  as  you  are  going 
past  that  area,  so  that  when  you  go  —  like  280  and 
101  come  together  right  in  that  area,  so  if  you  are 
driving  south  on  280  and  want  to  go  to  Bernal 
Heights,  like  I  often  want  to  do,  you  have  to  merge 
over  by  four  or  five  or  six  lanes,  as  different 
highways  and  freeways  come  together. 

That  already  makes  a  lot  of  traffic 
impact  right  there.  And  I  think  that  adding 


84 


Page  91 


Page  93 


116 

4 

5 

6  * 

115 

9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 

16  " 

17  " 

117 

zu 
21 
22 
23 
24 

118 


most  of  which  are  listed  by  the  State  of  California 
Air  Resources  Board  as  toxic  air  contaminants  —  and 
yet  were  not  addressed  in  the  EIR.  The  only  toxic 
air  contaminant  addressed  in  the  EIR  is  exhaust 
particulate. 


In  addition,  when  I  hit  Page  85  of  the 
EIR,  I'm  surprised  at  Table  8;  it  is  quite  out  of 
date.  It  includes  the  old  standard  for  particulate 
matter,  10  microns  in  diameter  and  temp  of  30.  That 
is  no  longer  the  case  and  has  not  been  the  case  for 
a  year.  It  is  now  lowered  to  20. 

There  is  a  standard  for  PM  2.5  in  the 
State  of  California  promulgated  by  the  ERB  in  June 
of  2002;  that  is  a  standard  of  12  -  not  even 
reflected  there  on  Page  85. 

In  addition  jthere  are  a  number  of  things 


in  the  EIR  that  underestimate.  For  example,  there's 
no  consideration  of  idling  vehicles;  no 
consideration  of  the  fact  that  vehicles  in 
stop-and-go  driving  generate  far  more  carbon 
monoxide  and  volatile  organic  compounds  than 
vehicles  traveling  at  a  constant  speed  of  25  miles 
an  hour  —  which  is  what  is  assumed  in  the  EIR, 
quite  incorrectly.  


In  addition,  they  seem  to  think  Bernal 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


additional  traffic  ~  this  is  not  even  to  mention 
Bernal  Heights,  but  just  the  freeway  approaches  to 
that  area  —  I  think  is  going  to  create  a  lot  of 
extra  danger  and  backup  because  of  all  that  merging. 


84 


So  that's  my  only  additional  comment.  I 
really  appreciate  your  time  today,  and  thank  you 
very  much. 

MR.  JORGE  BUSTOS:  My  name  is  Jorge 
Bustos.  I  live  at  1225  Florida  Street.  I'm  a  San 
Francisco  native,  and  I'm  a  real  estate  broker. 


Back  in  1995  I  approached  Home  Depot  to 
try  to  get  a  shop  over  near  Cesar  Chavez. 
Apparently  that  wouldn't  go  through,  because  of  the 
City  and  PG&E.  With  this  project  I  have  nothing  to 
do  with,  but  I  think  it  is  a  good  project. 

We're  here  to  study  the  impact  that  it 
will  have  on  the  environment  and  neighborhoods.  Of 
course  with  any  type  of  change  there  is  resistance. 
There  is  positive  aspects;  there's  negative  aspects, 
but  we're  here  to  look  at  which  has  the  most  weight. 

The  positive  aspects  have  the  most 
weight,  because  it  will  benefit  many  individuals: 
the  individuals  from  the  neighborhoods;  the 
individuals  that  work  for  the  City  and  County  and 
other  related  small  businesses  --  the  small 


164 


24  (Pages  90  to  93) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-26 


July  10,  2003 


Page  94 


164 


1  businesses  as  well  --  in  the  neighborhoods  will 

2  benefit  greatly.  They  probably  think  they  will  be 

3  out  of  business,  but  most  likely  their  business  will 

4  increase,  due  to  the  increased  flow  of  individuals 

5  onto  that  area. 
I  would  like  to  speak  right  now  as  an 

owner-builder. 

8  I  have  been  to  Home  Depots  from  Fairfield 

9  to  San  Carlos,  to  buy  products  from  Home  Depots. 

1 0  The  traffic  problem  which  occurs  in  Colma  is  because 

1 1  there  is  a  need  for  another  Home  Depot  or  another 

1 2  store.  Actually,  you  should  probably  consider 

1 3  having  two  Home  Depots  in  San  Francisco,  one  on  the 

14  east  side  and  one  on  the  west  side.  It  wouldn't 

15  hurt,  because  right  now  the  majority  from  the  west 

16  side  will  still  go  to  the  Colma  store  because  of  the 

17  1 9th  Avenue  traffic  flow. 

1 8  One  thing  I  would  like  to  point  out  is 

19  that  the  neighbors  from  the  area  do  have  good 

20  concerns.  I'll  address  the  City  and  County  and  also 

21  the  State,  because  of  the  onramps  and  offramps  of 

22  the  approaches,  to  take  consideration  for  the  No.  1 

23  thing,  which  is  safety:  safety  for  the  elderly;  the 

24  handicapped;  the  children  —  it  would  benefit 

25  everyone  greatly.  And  roads  will  improve;  the 


Page  96 

1  somebody  knows  something  about  hardware.  And  small 

2  businesses  still  get  my  vote  every  time. 

3  I'm  a  small  business  owner,  but  like  I 

4  say,  I  will  only  benefit  from  Home  Depot  coming  in. 

5  Everybody  in  my  business  says,  "Hey,  I  want  to  go 

6  there,  but  hey,  I  don't  want  them  there." 

7  The  two  things  coming  up  on  Bayshore  -- 

8  I've  got  to  say  it  is  a  wreck.  I  walk  down  the 

9  street;  I  live  down  there.  But  you  know  what?  I 

10  notice  a  lot  of  business  going  on  at  15th  and 

1 1  Mission,  and  there's  a  whole  lot  of  vagrants 

1 2  outside. 

13  So  I  don't  buy  the  idea  of  putting  a 

14  big-box  retail  in  there,  you  are  going  to  have 

15  planters  and  people  out  sunning  themselves.  It  is 

16  going  to  be  the  same.  You  just  are  going  to  have 

17  more  people  with  signs  saying  "Spend  less  money  on  a 

1 8  screwdriver  and  give  the  rest  to  me." 

1 9  I  don't  want  it  in  there.  I  think 

20  there's  two  main  sides  that  are  here.  One  is  the 

21  environment,  and  the  other  is  money,  and  I  think 

22  anybody  who  has  any  sense  knows  which  one  to  choose. 

23  Thank  you.  " 

24  PRESIDENT  BELL:  Jim  Allison. 

25  MR.  JIM  ALLISON:  My  name  is  Jim  Allison. 


163 


164 


4 

5  ' 

6 

7 

8 

9 
10 
11 
12" 
13 
14 


163 


17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  95 

neighborhoods  will  improve. 

Currently  myself:  I  don't  think  you  will 
catch  me  walking  on  Bayshore  during  any  time  in  the 
evening  or  at  night. 

I  would  like  to  say  one  more  thing  —  is 
that  —  I  just  have  a  moment;  I  don't  want  to  take 
your  time,  but  it  was  something  that  would  very  well 
work  out  also.  Thank  you  very  much. 

MS.  MOLLIE  MALONEY:  I'm  Mollie  Maloney 
and  I'm  not  with  any  particular  organization.  I 
want  to  thank  you  guys  for  staying  this  long. 


Page  97 


I  have  a  business  that's  about  two  blocks 
away  from  where  Goodman's  Lumber  used  to  be.  I  used 
to  go  there  all  the  time  for  hardware.  It  stands  to 
reason  that  if  my  business  is  two  blocks  away,  and 
people  are  driving  by,  I'm  going  to  get  more 
business.  It  sounds  very  good  to  me. 

I  also  go  to  the  hardware  store  every 
other  day,  unfortunately,  and  I  don't  want  to  drive 
out  to  Colma.  I  will  go  and  wait  and  circle  and 
look  for  parking  at  Cole  Hardware,  because  —  three 
reasons:  I  don't  have  to  sit  in  a  long  line  of 
monster  trucks  waiting  to  get  into  a  parking  lot. 
It  is  hard  to  park  over  there;  I'm  not  supporting 
small  business.  And  when  I  go  in  there,  oh,  my  God, 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


I'm  a  resident  on  Cortland  Street  and  also  hopefully 
a  soon-to-be  future  business  owner  on  Cortland 
Street.   


I  would  like  the  City  to  consider  the 
long-term  impacts.  We  have  seen  the  20 1 5  traffic 
projection,  but  there  has  not  been  an  acknowledgment 
in  the  D-EIR  of  the  other  stores  that  would  be 
induced  into  that  area,  and  I  think  the  City  is  in  a 
position,  at  this  point  in  time  —  per  the  adage  of 
planning  to  fail  —  there  has  been  a  failure  to  plan 
for  this,  and  a  failure  to  account  for  the  traffic 
increases  that  this  D-EIR  projects,  in  addition  to 
the  other  D-EIRs;  that  mitigations  that  are  proposed 
for  Home  Depot,  sized  as  it  is  for  the  preferred 
alternatives  —  may,  in  combination  with  future 
development,  not  be  adequate  to  deal  with  the 
traffic  impacts  for  Cortland  Avenue  and  Bayshore 
Avenue. 

So  I  would  encourage  the  Commission  and 
the  City  to  take  a  moment  to  look  and  ask  that  Home 
Depot  look  at  the  future  growth,  and  the  City  would 
look  to  the  future  growth  impacts  as  has  been 
addressed  by  the  commentors.  

Thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Ingrid  Mardeson. 


103 


25  (Pages  94  to  97) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-27 


July  10,  2003 


Page  98 


115 


113 


12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 


163 


25 


MS.  INGR1D  MARDESON:  My  name  is  Ingrid 
Mardeson.  I  live  on  Cortland  at  Prentice.)  I  have 
lived  in  San  Francisco  for  about  30  years,  and  I 
overlook  —  I'm  about  six,  seven  blocks  up  from 
Bayshore.  And  so  I  know  that  particulate  matter 
accumulates  on  the  front  of  my  house,  and  I  have 
looked  at  this  report  and  I  don't  believe  it. 
Because  1  sit  up  there  and  watch  the  traffic  go  by; 
watch  trucks  go  by;  and  we  are  already  having  a 
traffic  problem.  It  is  already  pushing  over, 
particularly  during  morning  and  evening  commutes 
onto  the  side  streets.  Even  I  use  the  side  streets. 

You  know,  when  I  take  the  24  bus  I  get 
off  across  from  my  house,  and  I  have  trouble  getting 
across  the  street  now.  Because  there's  no  stop;  at 
this  point  there's  no  stop  signs  from  all  the  way 
from  Bayshore  up  to  Folsom,  so  cars  go  pretty  fast 
and  reach  a  curve.  So  when  I  go  across  there,  I 
move  fast  and  looking  both  ways. 

It  is  not  going  toi  get  any  better  if  you  

start  adding  more  cars.  { I  don't  know  why  we  need  a 
big  box  there.  The  biggest  store  they've  got  in  the 
area  -  I  don't  think  they  need  that.  They  want  to 
put  in  two  small  stores,  fine.  They  will  go  through 
the  whole  reports  on  that. 


Page  100 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


the  whole  state  needs  more  money;  the  whole  nation 
needs  more  money. 

I  want  the  environment  to  be  considered. 
I  want  people  to  be  considered.  And  I  want  business 
to  be  responsible.  J  And  I  feel  that  the  small 


163 


businesses  —  I  used  to  go  to  Goodman's  all  the 
time.  And  as  a  person  who  wants  to  ask  questions 
about  what  — 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you. 

GIL  PAYNE:  Thank  you,  Commissioners,  for 
the  opportunity  to  speak. 

My  name  is  Gil  Payne;  I  live  at  532  

Franconia  Street  in  Bemal  Heights  area.)  I  have 
been  a  five-year  resident  there,  and  I  am  associated 
with  Prudential  of  California  Realty. 

I  think  the  D-EIR  report  doesn't  go  quite 
far  enough.  I  think,  as  everyone  has  said,  we  don't 
have  to  wait  until  2015  for  the  problems;  you  can 
see  them  already  today.  And  I  would  like  to  address 
my  remarks  in  three  areas,  first  starting  with  the 
traffic  issue. 

First  of  all,  concerning  Mission  and 
Cortland,  I  think  it  is  obvious  what  is  going  to 
happen  here,  in  terms  of  the  problem  is  already  bad 
enough  for  those  trying  to  travel  outside  our 


67 


113 

3 

120 

7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 

163 

15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  99 


Page  101 


But  the  report  says  that  there's  going  to 
be  big  traffic  problems.  Jit  says  there's  going  to 


be  big  air  problems.  I  have  worked  27  years  with 
pre-schoolers;  I  have  seen  a  massive  increase  in 
asthma. 

I  didn't  have  kids  with  asthma  27  years 
ago.  I  didn't  have  it.  Now  I've  got  kids  with 
asthma  and  with  inhalers  at  school,  and  I'm  ready  to 

doCPR.   . 

This  is  not  right.  |  This  is  your  city.  I 


want  you  to  think  of  San  Francisco  of  the  future: 
having  a  whole  line  of  big  boxes  down  there  with  the 
kind  of  traffic  that  brings  in:  That  surely  does 
benefit  the  money;  surely  does  benefit  anybody  who 
owns  property  down  there.  And  I'm  sure  it  helps 
their  businesses,  and  I  do  want  that  area  to 
improve;  I  want  there  to  be  more  jobs  for  people. 

But  I  don't  want  it  to  be  at  the  cost  of 
people  not  being  able  to  walk  in  their  neighborhood; 
to  be  able  to  find  parking  in  their  neighborhood;  to 
be  able  to  breathe  in  their  neighborhood. 

I  love  this  city.  I  have  lived  here  30 
years.  I'm  going  to  spend  my  life  here.  I  want 
this  place  -  I  want  us  to  think  of  the  future.  I 
want  us  to  think  about  yes,  we  need  more  money,  but 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 
10 
11 
12* 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


community.  It  is  an  absolute  nightmare. 


Secondly,  with  respect  to  Bayshore,  if 
you  hate  the  backups  now,  particularly  when  80  has 
bad  traffic,  or  when  the  CHP  kills  a  suspect  off  the 
80,  as  they  did  two  years  ago,  and  have  traffic 
backed  up  all  the  way  to  3Com,  that  makes  it 
impossible  to  have  a  big-box  store  with  all  of  these 
problems  that  are  associated  with  the  traffic,  with 
respect  to  the  Bayshore  corridor  traffic  at  commute 
times.  


 Third  and  finally,  with  respect  to 

Cortland,  I  hate  the  backlog.  As  you  will  see,  the 
street  itself  is  backed  up,  but  the  parking  problem 
is  going  to  be  substantially  exacerbated,  and  that's 
something  not  tenable  for  us  who  live  in  Bernal. 

<  Secondly .Iwith  respect  to  air  quality. 

this  is  like  a  Nimby  issue,  as  I  like  to  show  where 
the  X  is  here,  where  my  home  is. 

As  you  know,  when  you  have  smog,  you  have 
haze;  when  you  have  haze,  you  can't  see  anything. 
So  when  you  are  talking  about  the  antiglare  problem 
from  their  roof,  in  addition  to  the  smog  that's 
created,  those  of  us  who  currently  have  views  of  the 

East  Bay  are  going  to  have  views  of  white.  

And  I  don't  think  that  is  very  good  for 


67 


77 


67 


125 


154 


26  (Pages  98  to  101) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-28 


July  10,  2003 


154 


Page  102 


our  property,  taxes,  or  our  property  value  jthat 


125 


9 
10 
11 


I'll  get  to  in  my  last  remarks  with  respect  to  the 
land  use  and  economic  impact. 

Finally,|with  respect  to  fumes  and  air 


154 


quality,  I  can  already  smell  Sunset  Scavenger  when 
they  bring  their  trash  down  by  Bayshore  and 
CalTrain.  How  much  more  gas  exhaust,  etc.  am  I 
going  to  smell  from  my  house  at  this  current  time 

with  a  Home  Depot  there?  ^ 

Third  and  finally ^  with  respect  to  land 


132 


use  and  economic  impact,  I'm  not  averse  to  Home 
Depot.  In  fact,  my  entire  back  yard  comes  from  Home 
Depot.  But  let's  remember  what  Goodman's  was. 
Goodman's  was  service;  Goodman's  was  a  very  good 
local  citizen.  I  wonder  if  Home  Depot  is  going  to 

do  the  same.    l 

Secondly,|what  about  the  cultural  impact? 


154 


No  one  has  spoken  of  the  Ohlone  Indians  and  the 
artifacts  that  may  exist  in  that  area.  Don't  we 
think  Native  Americans  have  been  harmed  enough  in 

21  J  this  country?  

22  Third  and  finallyjwith  respect  to  tax 

23  1  basis,  I  tell  you  that  if  you  do  this  my  home  value 
will  depreciate.  If  my  home  value  depreciates,  you 
have  less  property  taxes  coming  from  me.  Combined 


Page  04 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


quarter  to  the  west  of  Bayshore. 

I  think  it  is  --  this  is  a  great  time  for 
the  city  to  have  a  business  of  such  as  Home  Depot, 
and  I'm  looking  forward  to  purchasing.  And  I 
believe  that  the  traffic  and  the  quality  of  air,  and 
also  the  archeological  culture  and  all  of  those 
things  will  be  no  more  of  an  increase  and  providing 
some  sort  of  health  hazard  as  we  have  presently. 

Because  I  know  that  our  energy  companies 
that  provide  gas  are  working  on  methods  and  ways  to 
reduce  those  contaminants,  and  so  therefore  when  the 
trucks  come  and  the  cars  come  in  the  area,  the  air 
is  going  to  be  not  as  hard  on  us  as  we  think  it  will 
be. 

So  I  support  Home  Depot,  and  look  forward 
to  any  other  businesses  of  sort  that  we  can  have 
come  to  the  city.  Thank  you  for  your  patience,  and 
I'm  looking  forward  to  working  with  you. 


164 


PRESIDENT  BELL:  Dan  Dodt,  and  then 
Louise  Aronsen. 

MR.  DAN  DODT:  Good  afternoon, 
Commissioners.  My  name  is  Dan  Dodt,  a  23-year 
resident  of  Bay  View  district.  I  live  at  1556 
Revere. 


I'm  a  small  business  owner  of  the  Bay 


136 


154 


4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 


Page  103 


Page  105 


164 


20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


with  tax  breaks  that  you  will  give  to  Home  Depot  and 
other  big-box  stores,  do  you  think  that  you  will 
have  more  income  coming  into  the  City  in  terms  of 
tax  revenues  or  less?  I  hope  you  have  less  —  and 
it  will  have  a  bad  impact  on  California  and  San 
Francisco  in  the  future. 
Say  no. 

MR.  CHARLES  CLARY:  Good  afternoon, 
Commissioners.  Thank  you  for  your  patience  with  us 
as  a  community  of  the  people  who  are  pleased  to  have 
improvements,  and  we're  pleased  not  to  have 
improvements. 

My  name  is  Charles  Clary  and  I  live  at  _____ 
834  Jamestown  Avenue,  and  I  am  here  to  say  thatp"  am 


pleased  to  know  that  the  draft  EIR  report  includes 
improvements  for  the  Bayshore  Avenue,  and  I  have 
learned  something  again  today:  that  there  is  only 
Cortland  Street  entered  into  Bay  View  that's  going 
to  access  Home  Depot.  I  thought  there  were  many 
other  streets. 

And  so,  because  there  are  many  others, 
and  then  others  will  be  improved  also,  that  connects 
and  provide  an  artery  for  traffic  —  not  only 
Cortland  is  the  only  one,  but  there's  Cesar  Chavez, 
and  then  there  are  others  that  come  from  the  eastern 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


View,  and  a  member  of  the  Bay  View/Hunters  Point 
PAC,  the  Bay  View  Merchants  Association,  Revere 
Avenue  Neighbors  Association,  and  have  served  on 
numerous  local  planning  panels. 

Like  many  of  my  neighbors,  friends  and 
associates  in  Bay  View  and  Bernal  communities,  I 
share  the  desire  for  a  revitalized  Bayshore 
corridor,  for  new  commerce  and  growth,  and  a  home 
improvement  supply  store. 

In  evaluating  any  proposal  for  such  a 
store,  we  must  rely  on  the  accuracy  of  any 
information  and  factual  data  in  order  to  make  the 
best  decisions  on  behalf  of  our  communities, 
ourselves  and  on  behalf  of  the  larger  San  Francisco 
community.  After  reviewing  the  D-EIR  before  us,  it 
became  clear  that  a  number  of  inconsistencies  formed 
the  basis  of  the  criteria  used  for  the  conclusions 
drawn. 

Specifically,  on  Page  1 1,  the  information 
on  daily  population  presumes  a  hundred  daily 
employees  and  three  thousand  shoppers  per  day.  We 
know  that  the  employment  figure  is  actually  300,  and 
I  acknowledge  the  correction  made  this  week  by  Home 
Depot  —  that's  after  two  and  a  half  years  of 
discussion.  Yet  some  numbers  do  not  add  up. 


36 


27  (Pages  102  to  105) 

LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-29 


July  10,  2003 


36 

6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 

14 

15 
16 
17 

125 

20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  106 


Despite  my  repeated  request  of  the 
project  sponsor  to  clarify  the  building  size  in  the 
EIR  documentation,  the  stated  156,000-square-foot 
store  does  not  reflect  the  actual 
226,000-square-foot  store  and  included  parking 
areas.  We  need  documentation  for  the  clarification. 

It  was  recently  stated  by  the  Home  Depot 
architect  in  public  that,  quote:  "The  Bayshore 
store  will  be  one  of  the  largest  Home  Depot  stores 
in  the  nation."  If  the  100-daily-employee  figure  is 
incorrect,  is  the  3,000  shopper-per-day  figure  -- 
which  is  the  basis  for  the  traffic  study  and 
resulting  significant  impact  on  regional  air  quality 
~  also  accurate? 

Significant  impact  on  regional  air 
quality:  This  is  air  that  rises  from  Bayshore, 
blows  over  my  fine  neighborhood,  but  ends  up  in 
Oakland;  Fremont  ~  should  we  advocate  that  sort  of 
project? 

We  should  be  given  the  opportunity  to 
evaluate  the  proposed  development  based  on  accurate 
data.  It  would  be  irresponsible  of  us  to  accept  the 
document  as  written,  in  my  opinion.  For  those  of 
you  with  the  power  to  reject  the  findings  that  came 
within  the  documentation,  I  ask  that  you  do  so, 


Page  108 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


shoppers.  And  that  is  basically  what  I  wanted  to 

say. 

I'm  against  this  project;  I'm  not  against 
business.  But  I  think  the  uniqueness  of  our  city, 
which  I  love  dearly  -- 1  have  lived  here  for  many, 
many  years  —  and  I  don't  want  to  see  it  changed  in 
the  respect  that  we  have  all  the  big  boxes  coming 
in,  and  we're  just  another  cookie-cutter  town. 

Because  this  city  is  unique;  a  beautiful 
place.  We  want  to  keep  it  that  way;  we  want  to  have 
jobs  for  people  to  make  a  decent  living  and  live 
here  and  have  good  benefits,  and  raise  our  children 
as  well,  for  the  safe  environment  that  we  have,  and 
enjoy  the  beauty  of  it.  


163 


So  thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Katherine  Massey. 
Followed  by  Phil  Heyman.  And  then  Reverend  Arnold 
Townsend. 

MS.  KATHERINE  MASSEY:  Hi,  I'm  Katherine 
Massey,  and  I  live  at  120  Horace  Street.  I  bought  a 
house  there  about  a  year  ago  


I  have  been  a  resident  in  San  Francisco 
for  nine  years  now,  and  a  lot  of  this  is  kind  of 
repeat  information,  but  I  basically  have  three 
concerns  with  Home  Depot.  First,  how  it  will  affect 


67 


125 


9 

157 


12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 


163 


Page  107 

respectfully. 

I  would  make  a  similar  appeal.  Thank 

you. 

MR.  RICK  SHELTON:  Rick  Shelton.  I'm 
Zack's  father.  I'm  a  resident  at  178  Park  Street, 
andU'm  a  lover  of  San  Francisco,  an  avid  bike 
rider,  and  also  a  lover  of  Bernal  Heights. 

I'm  not  against  business;  I'm  a  business 
person.  I  have  worked  for  many  years  in  business 
industry,  working  with  people  in  service,  and  one  of 
the  things  that  I  want  to  address  —  regardless  of 
the  impact  on  my  neighborhood,  and  on  Cortland 
Avenue,  as  some  of  these  issues  have  been  repeated: 
One  of  the  things  we  need  to  look  at,  if  you  are 
looking  for  jobs  for  people,  is  quality  of  those 
jobs,  and  the  impact  it  is  going  to  have  on  the 
lives  and  the  residents  of  the  City  of  San 
Francisco. 

What  kind  of  living  wage  are  they  going 
to  have?  What  kind  of  benefits  are  they  going  to 
have?  This  is  something  that,  you  know,  if  you  are 
going  to  have  these  big  boxes  coming  in,  such  as  the 
Wal-Marts  and  the  K-Marts  and  the  Home  Depots,  look 
at  the  quality  that  they  have.  [Look  at  the  safety 
record  of  not  only  the  workers,  but  also  of  the 


Page  109 


1  my  neighborhood,  the  traffic,  and  the  air  pollution. 

2  The  whole  reason  I  actually  moved  to  San 

3  Francisco  —  and  I  used  to  live  in  the  suburbs,  but 

4  as  the  last  guy  was  just  saying,  San  Francisco  is 

5  very  unique,  and  what  makes  it  unique  is  like  the 

6  small  coffee  shops  and  little  restaurants;  all  the 

7  small  businesses.  And  it  is  just  such  a  great  city, 

8  as  we  all  know. 

9  Bemal  Heights  is  also  just  a  fantastic 

10  neighborhood.  On  a  Saturday  if  you  go  out  there 

1 1  will  be  like  tons  of  parents  with  strollers  and 

1 2  dogs,  and  people  know  each  other,  and  it  is  just 

1 3  this  cute  little  neighborhood,  and  I  just  love  it 

14  there. 

15  And  thinking  of  the  Home  Depot  going  in, 

1 6  I  can  just  visualize  it  —  you  know,  a  few  years 

1 7  from  now,  where  it  will  just  be  like  traffic  moving 

1 8  down  Cortland,  and  I  really  think  it  is  a  hard  thing 

1 9  to  quantify,  but  it  is  going  to  change  the  charm  of 

20  this  neighborhood,  and  that's  a  big  concern  for  me. 

21  As  far  as  traffic  goes,  like  I  said, 

22  along  Cortland  -  and  I  have  a  garage,  and  at  times 

23  I'm  trying  to  back  out  of  my  garage  right  now  I'll 

24  have  to  sit  there  and  wait  sometimes  like  five 

25  minutes,  because  cars  are  just  flying  by  constantly 


67 


28  (Pages  106  to  109) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-30 


July  10,  2003 


67 


125 


11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 


Page  110 


164 


24 
25 


on  Cortland.  So  already  there  is  a  lot  of  traffic, 
and  I  can  vouch  for  that. 


The  other  thing  is  on  Cortland,  the 
pollution:  As  far  as  the  EIR  report,  1  can  tell  you 
right  now  it  is  so  dirty  my  windows  I  have  to  clean 
them  like  every  four  days  to  keep  them  clean;  they 
are  very  grimy.  I  would  just  be  really  unhappy  just 
to  think  about  the  amount  of  traffic  this  will 
bring. 

Again,  just  being  a  citizen  of  San 
Francisco  and  a  resident  of  Bernal  Heights,  I  just 
want  to  speak  out  and  say  that  I'm  really  against 
this,  because  it  would  be  affect  my  living 
environment  in  a  negative  way. 


Thanks. 


PRESIDENT  BELL:  Phil  Heyman?  Okay, 
Reverend  Arnold  Townsend. 

REVEREND  ARNOLD  TOWNSEND:  Thank  you, 
Madam  President  and  Commissioners.  Reverend  Arnold 
Townsend.  Just  a  couple  of  brief  comments. 

I  simply  don't  intend  to  stand  and  speak 
in  behalf  of  any  community,  but  I  will  speak  on 
behalf  of  myself,  and  on  behalf  of  those  that  I  know 
who  have  looked  at  this  D-EIR  and  find  it  adequate, 
and  that  it  is  time  to  move  on. 

Certainly,  by  the  way,  Dr.  Reese  Walker 


Page  112 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


street;  when  people  cannot  support  their  families. 

And  it  is  very  easy  to  call  these 
dead-end  jobs  when  you  have  a  job.  But  when  you 
don't  have  one  this  job  beats  no  job,  and  certainly 
they  are  better  than  the  jobs  you  would  find  in  the 
shopping  district  in  Bernal  Heights,  because  I  go  up 
there,  and  you  can  drive  along  Cortland  and  go  in 
and  out  of  those  shops,  and  you  won't  find  five 
black  employees  on  the  whole  street. 

So  it  is  high  time  that  we  move  this 
project  forward  and  quit  playing  around  with  the  EIR 
and  get  San  Franciscans  busy  working  again.  

Thank  you. 

MS.  SUE  HESTOR:  SueHestor.  I  live  at 
Bennington  and  Highland  in  Bemal  Heights,  and  I'm 
also  the  attorney  for  Cole  Hardware.  


164 


The  cover  of  the  EIR  is  the  first  page  I 
want  to  direct  your  attention  to.  What  it  shows  is 
the  site.  What  it  doesn't  show  you  is  how  light  the 
site  is,  because  the  applicant  for  this  project  is 
not  only  Home  Depot;  it  is  Joan  Goodman  Zimmerman, 
one  of  the  Goodman  children,  who  basically  forced 
the  closure  of  the  store  and  has  not  maintained  the 
site. 

Ironically,  if  this  site  is  developed  it 


31 


164 


9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  111 

had  to  leave  early,  so  I'm  kind  of  standing  in  his 
stead.  He's  lived  there  in  that  community  and 
operated  a  church  there.  And  when  you  say  the 
people  of  Bay  View  have  looked  at  it  and  found  it  to 
be  overall  adequate  by  the  majority  of  people  who 
have  been  involved  in  the  process,  that's  really 
saying  something,  because  as  someone  who  is  right 
now  breaking  ground  on  a  project  in  Bay  View/Hunters 
Point,  they  are,  without  question,  when  it  comes  to 
pollution  and  toxics  and  those  kind  of  issues,  the 
most  sophisticated  community  in  San  Francisco, 
because  of  what  has  happened  to  them,  with  all  the 
problems  in  that  community.  They  do  not  take  these 
issues  lightly. 

And  so  it  is  high  time  that  we  move  on 
with  this  project,  because  you  see,  there  is  a 
certain  kind  of  environmental  and  pollution  danger 
in  Bayview/Hunters  Point,  and  that's  the  pollution 
and  environmental  dangers  of  unemployment,  dashed 
hopes  and  unrealized  dreams  that  unemployment  will 
cause  you. 

We  need  some  employment,  and  that  in 
itself  should  be  within  your  reports  an 
environmental  issue,  because  it  certainly  does 
damage  to  the  environment  when  people  are  on  the 


Page  113 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


will  make  it  even  harder  for  the  Redevelopment 
Agency  to  justify  a  redevelopment  area  for  this 
area,  because  they  haven't  made  a  finding  of  blight, 
and  the  blighted  conditions  are  the  conditions 
caused  by  this  owner.  ,   


What  I  am  frustrated  about  is  that  you 
continue  to  have  EIR's  that  show  non-existent 
streets.  They  have  all  these  little  streets  that 
make  you  think  maybe  they  could  get  off  of  Bernal 
Heights  going  across  Bayshore  on  some  other  place. 
The  real  world  is  this  is  a  Muni  map;  official  city 
map  —  that  shows  that  there  is  nothing  here. 

If  you  are  in  Bernal  Heights  you  can 
either  go  down  Cortland  to  Bayshore,  or  go  down 
Cortland  to  Mission  Street.  On  Saturdays  it  is  very 
difficult  to  get  off  of  Bernal  Heights  to  the  east, 
because  we  can't  go  another  auxiliary  route,  which 
is  go  down  to  the  farmers  market,  because  it  is  a 
zoo  on  Saturday. 

On  Page  28,  which  is  the  page  right  after 
that,  it  is  the  first  page  of  the  plot  map  of  this 
project.  And  what  you  will  see  is  there's  one 
pedestrian  access  for  this  entire  site,  and  the  site 
is  enormous.  Everything  else  is  vehicle-accessed. 
The  main  vehicle  access  is  straight  down  Cortland, 


31 


29  (Pages  110  to  113) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-31 


July  10,  2003 


Page  1 14 


100 


11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 


37 


19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 


163 


and  the  EIR  was  delayed  at  length  for  a  Loomis 
Street  alternative,  and  it  is  not  here.  That  was  a 
year  of  delay  on  this  project  —  was  they  said  they 
were  doing  the  entrance  off  of  Loomis  Street.  So 
you  have  a  totally  pedestrian-unfriendly  project. 
And  also,|because  they  have  assumed  that 


everyone  is  going  to  drive,  there  is  no  analysis  of 
pedestrians  or  Muni  impacts.  It  is  just  factored 
out  of  this. 

This  project  is  the  antithesis  of  a 
transit-first  project.  Their  assumption  is  no  one 
is  going  to  use  transit.  They  didn't  do  an  analysis 
of  increased  transit  ridership  for  the  workers,  let 
alone  for  their  customers,  and  you  are  going  to  have 
a  street  frontage  that  is  suburban  street  frontage. 

1  cannot  understand  why  we  did  not  have 
an  analysis  of  design  issues  in  this  EIR.  You  look 
at  this,  and  it  is  787  feet  long.  There  is  not  one 
entrance  on  that  front  (indicating).  There  is 
nothing  that  interacts  as  a  pedestrian  entrance. 

MS.  CHRIS  ELLEN  MONTGOMERY:  Good 
evening.  Thank  you  for  listening  to  all  our 
comments.  I  want  to  urge  you  to  reject  the  D-EIR  as 
deficient.  I'm  Chris  Ellen  Montgomery. 


I  would  like  to  urge  you  to  reject  this 


Page  116 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Life.  Cortland  Avenue  is  an  east/west-facing  street 
and  at  sunset  time,  which  is  earlier  in  the  year 
during  winter,  the  sun  is  blinding,  and  people  who 
are  impatient  and  sort  of  run  stop  signs,  have 
caused  two  accidents  that  I  have  witnessed,  and  many 
near-misses. 

Also,  on  my  way  to  work  —  I  work  in  the 
DPW  yard  off  of  Bayshore  and  Kansas  —  on  the  way  to 
work  I  roughly  travel  Cortland  at  about  7:00  a.m.  in 
the  morning.  There  are  two  businesses  at  the  far 
end  of  Cortland,  near  Bayshore:  Ruiz  Paving  and 
Rock  and  Rose  Landscaping. 

Ruiz  has  many,  many  large  trucks,  which 
they  must  back  out  of  their  facility. 


70 


PRESIDENT  BELL:  Any  other  speakers? 
Seeing  none,  this  portion  of  the  public  comment  is 
closed.  The  written  portion  is  open  until  tomorrow, 
July  1 1 .  Tomorrow  by  5:00  p.m.,  I  believe. 

So  we'll  take  it  up  to  the  commissioners. 
Commissioner  Feldstein? 

COMMISSIONER  FELDSTEIN:}  I  have  just  on  : 
question  for  staff:  A  couple  of  the  speakers  raised 
the  issue  of  the  accessibility  of  the  data 
underlying  the  draft  EIR,  and  said  that  they  have 
been  unable  to  obtain  that  documentation. 


158 


163 

3 
4 
5 
6 
7 

70 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  115 


Page  117 


deficient  plan.  I  feel  it  is  flawed.  I  have  lived 
in  San  Francisco  for  28  years;  it  is  my  adopted 
home.  I  love  it. 


I  have  worked  for  the  City  and  County  of 
San  Francisco  for  1 8  years,  first  for  the  Recreation 
and  Park  Department,  and  presently  for  the 
Department  of  Public  Works.  I  have  also  lived  in 
Bemal  Heights  for  the  last  eight  years. 

Before  that  I  lived  in  Noe  Valley  as  a 
homeowner,  and  I  know  whenever  I  wanted  to  do  a  home 
improvement  project,  I  very  cleverly  used  the 
short-cut  down  Cortland  instead  of  Army  Street,  as 
it  was  then  called;  now  Cesar  Chavez,  to  get  to 
Goodman's  Lumber.  And  I  feel  that  it  will  be  a  lava 
flow  from  the  neighborhoods  of  Diamond  Heights,  Glen 
Park  and  Twin  Peaks,  down  Cortland,  to  visit  the  new 
Home  Depot. 

I  think,  besides  the  traffic  coming  down 
Cortland,  we  have  a  huge  pedestrian  population 
enjoying  our  lovely,  unique  neighborhood.  There  are 
many  children,  seniors,  and  handicapped  people 
walking  around. 

Several  times,  on  my  way  home  from  work 
up  Cortland,  I  have  witnessed  —  two  accidents  and 
several  near-miss  accidents  in  front  of  The  Good 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Can  you  speak  to  this? 

MS.  CHAN:  As  stated  in  the  draft  EIR, 
members  of  the  public  should  be  in  contact  with  me 
to  view  the  file.  And  members  of  the  public  have 
come  in  at  least  once  a  week  to  look  at  the  file, 
and  everything  is  in  the  documents,  so  I'm  not 
sure  —  everything  is  in  the  file.  So  I'm  not  sure 
why  it  wasn't  available. 

COMMISSIONER  FELDSTEIN:  And  the  fact 
that  it  was  prepared  by  Home  Depot,  and  no  one  makes 
any  other  proprietary  — 

MS.  CHAN:  Everything  that's  stated  in 
the  D-EIR  is  part  of  the  City  document,  and  becomes 
part  of  the  document. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Commissioner  Antonini? 


COMMISSIONER  ANTONINI:  |I  think  the 
traffic  was  less  on  Cortland  tonight  because 
everybody  was  here  testifying  from  Cortland. 

I  appreciate  the  input;  I  think  there  was 
a  lot  of  good  things  that  came  out  of  it.  I  think  a 
lot  of  things  do  have  to  be  addressed  before  this 
report  is  finalized.  And|l  know  that  I  have  spoken 
with  President  Bell  about  some  of  the  things  that 
need  to  be  addressed,  and  she'll  have  some  other 
comments,  I'm  sure,  but  the  points  about  bike  lanes 


67 


90 


30  (Pages  114  to  117) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-32 


> 


July  10,  2003 


90 


67 

12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 

43 

20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Page  118 


and  things  that  need  to  be  done  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard  I  think  is  very  important,  because,  you 
know,  you  probably  are  only  going  to  have  one  shot 
to  do  it,  and  at  least  if  you  are  going  to  do  it 
let's  do  it  the  right  way,  and  make  it  pedestrian 
friendly,  as  well  as  mitigate  the  traffic  problems 
that  will  be  presented. 


I  think  Cortland  is  clearly  a  street  that 
is  going  to  need  to  be  addressed.  There  may  have  to 
be  other  ways  that  that  would  be  engineered.  It  is 
not  my  place  to  bring  up  suggestions  at  this  time, 
but  I  think  that  part  of  the  report  will  have  to 
have  some  other  treatments  of  the  end  of  Cortland 
coming  into  the  Home  Depot. 


And  I  think  that  there  were  good  points 
made  on  all  sides.  I  think  the  usage  ~  I  live  in 
western  San  Francisco;  I  probably  still  will  go,  if 
I  use  the  Home  Depot  —  which  I  try  to  avoid 
whenever  possible,  but  just  because,  you  know,  it 
takes  a  lot  longer,  and  unless  you  are  shopping  for 
a  lot  of  items  it  is  easier  to  go  to  the 
neighborhood  hardware  store. 

But  I  think  a  lot  of  people  from  my  side 
of  the  city  will  continue  to  go  to  Colma,  and 
probably  what  will  happen  is  their  business  will 


Page  1 20 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


pretty  much  what  she's  talking  about,  and  I  think 
the  air  pollution  issue  should  be  addressed  and 
updated.  I  think  there's  issues  with  —  she  talked 
about  the  PM  10s;  some  of  the  State  regulatory 
agencies  going  to  2.5,  and  I  think  that  means  the 
size  of  the  dust  particles  that  you  would  get  from 
diesel.  ' 


115 


Also  on  the  weekends  there's  two  impacts. 
One,  I'm  eventually  responsible  for  the  Alemany 
farmers  market  on  Saturdays,  and  also  when  we  have 
flea  market  on  Sundays.  Clearly  Saturdays  is  high 
impact,  because  I  can't  find  parking  down  there  at 
times,  and  I  think  that  should  be  a  consideration, 
on  the  one  nand. 


95 


On  the  other  hand,  the  Office  Max  has 
been  shut  down  for  quite  some  time,  and  there  is  an 
antique  store  on  the  other  side.  So  I  think  the 
Office  Max  is  something  else  now;  I  think  there 
would  be  less  impact  there.   


The  issue  about  20151  think  we  should 
take  a  look  at.  I  think  the  loss  of  service  will 
have  an  impact  in  that  neighborhood,  depending  on 
what  else  we  do  in  that  area. 


Regarding  Cortland,  I  know  on  Saturdays 
and  Sundays,  though,  I  have  driven  by  there  on 


49 

103 
67 


2 

43 

5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 

23 

14 
15 
16 
17 
18 

139 

zi 

22  ' 
23 
24 

15 


Page  119 


diminish  some,  and  you  will  probably  end  up  with 
about  half  the  amount  of  business  in  the  eastern 
store,  and  the  other  half  still  in  the  western 
store,  because  I  think  that  what  is  happening  is 
verybody  is  going  to  Colma  now  that  is  utilizing 
that. 

Those  are  the  biggest  things  I  find  out 
of  here. 


I  think  the  comments  have  been  made 
about,  you  know,  Bayshore  Boulevard.  I  think  it 
always  has  been  a  home  improvement  area.  Whether  it 
should  remain  that  or  not  is  conjectural,  but  when  I 
was  doing  things  20  years  ago,  I  would  go  down  there 
to  Sid  Mar  for  sinks,  to  Goodman's  and  Floorcraft, 
and  all  the  different  things.  The  scope  may  be 
larger  here,  but  the  usage  is  similar. 

Those  are  basically  the  things  I  heard 
tonight,  but  I  think  we  need  to  look  at  the  entire 


report,  and  especially  for  traffic  mitigation. 
That's  a  very  important  area  that  has  to  be 
addressed. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Commissioner  Bill  Lee? 

COMMISSIONER  BILL  LEE:  A  couple  of 
comments.  One  is  thatlthere  was  a  lady  earlier 
talking  about  the  air  pollution.  I  think  she  knows 


Page  121 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


Bayshore,  and  there's  very  few  cars  at  this  time 
going  up  or  down  on  Cortland.  And  I  don't  know  if 
we  have  information  on  when  Goodman  Lumber  was 
there,  because  frankly,  the  Home  Depot  really 
replaces  Goodman  Lumber,  and  also  where  Whole  Earth 
Access  was. 

So  we  did  have  a  lot  of  traffic  in  those 
days;  I  don't  see  any  information  in  here  in  the  EIR 
that  sort  of  addressed  that  issue.  Will  this  in 
fact  be  any  greater  than  it  was  five  or  six  years 
ago?  I  don't  know  how  to  answer  that  question;  I 
would  ask  staff  to  look  into  it.  

That's  it. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Commissioner  Boyd? 

COMMISSIONER  BQYD:"t-A  couple  of  matters 
want'to  address,  and  No.  1  has  to  do  with  the 
parking  configuration,  and  how  that's  going  to 
impact  traffic. 

Usually,  commensurate  with  Home  Depots, 
there  is  a  tremendous  need  for  some  parking  around 
the  area,  the  greenhouse  area,  with  materials  that 
are  being  purchased  in  that  area  and  being  loaded  in 
the  vehicles.  That's  a  concern,  if  that's  going  to 
be  commensurate  with  the  other  stores  that  they  have 
in  the  area. 


67 


94 


31  (Pages  118  to  121) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-33 


July  10,  2003 


94 


5 

6 
7 
8 
9 

10' 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 


Page  122 


And  another  concern  would  be  also  the 
access  for  walking  traffic.  That  does  concern  me  a 
bit,  and  how  the  parking  is  going  to  be  impacted. 

The  number  of  parking  spaces  that  are 
projected  on  the  scheme  does  not  really  go  a  long 
way  in  satisfying  parking  needs  at  other  Home  Depots 
that  I  have  compared  to  this  one,  too,  and  we  may 
have  a  problem  with  that.  So,  you  know,  some 
clarification  in  that  area. 


153 


19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


One  other  question  I  would  like  to  ask 
project  sponsor,  if  I  may  at  this  time  — 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  You  can't  ask  a 
question. 

COMMISSIONER  BOYD:  Well,|my  concern  also* 


was  around  the  area  of  the  impact  on  related 
businesses.  I  raise  the  issue  particularly  about 
the  AAA  Rental  store  that's  near  there. 

I  found  the  information  about  the  other 
impacts  on  other  businesses,  and  the  leakage,  as 
well  as  the  projected  capture  rate  through  the  Home 
Depot  sales,  but  it  did  not  say  anything  —  did  not 
speak  to  the  issue  of  how  that  particular  business 
would  be  impacted.  And  it  is  the  business 
immediately  behind  that  area.  So  I'll  be  concerned 
about  that. 


Page  124 


1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


favor,  and  those  that  spoke  in  opposition  discussed 
access  with  respect  to  Cortland,  and  the  impact  that 
that  would  have;  whether  or  not  many  people  came  via 
Cortland  or  didn't  certainly  -  it  is  certain  to 
assume  that  people  will  come  off  the  freeway. 

I  think  in  order  for  it  to  be  adequate  it 
certainly  should  address  access  that  is  southbound 
from  280.  One  of  the  earlier  speakers  mentioned 
that  you  have  to  cross  a  number  of  traffic  lanes, 
once  you  get  off  the  280  southbound  exit.  I  believe 
that  to  be  accurate.  It  should  speak  to  that. 

It  should  also  speak  to  the  vehicle 
types.  There  are  many  industrial  uses  in  that  area; 
a  lot  of  trucks  in  that  area.  And  when  it  does  a 
vehicle  count,  it  should  address  the  fact  that  in 
that  particular  area  we  do  have  a  disproportionate 
number  of  heavy  vehicles,  and  the  impact  that  that 
may  or  may  not  have  on  this  project.  

Thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  In  the  interests  of  time 
I  won't  read  all  three  pages  of  my  comments,  but  I 
will  submit  them.  On  the  D-EIR,  I  will  say  some  of 
them,  though.  


84 


The  D-EIR,  in  my  view,  does  not 
adequately  address  the  traffic  impacts  created  by 


60 


153 


1 1 
12 
13 
14 


Page  123 


Page  125 


It  probably  would  not  be  that  horrific, 
but  it  does  bear  some  concern  and  some 
consideration,  . 


115 


17 


135 

21 
22 
23 
24 

84 


PRESIDENT  BELL:  Thank  you.  And 
remember,  it  is  the  D-EIR. 

Commissioner  Hughes? 

COMMISSIONER  HUGHES:  Thank  you. 

With  regards  to  the  accuracy,  I  think 
that  the  EIR  in  its  final  version  is  going  to  need 
to  be  accurate,  in  the  sense  that  on  Page  27,  where 
we  have  a  map,  and  the  map  shows  a  number  of  streets 
that  for  all  intents  and  purposes  appear  to  cross 
the  freeway  —  that  I  don't  believe  that  we  do.  So 
we  would  need  to  correct  that. 


We  would  need  to  have  on  Page  85  current 
permissible  exposure  levels. 

And  we  would  need  to  have  on  Page  103  -- 
we've  got  a  growth  inducement  report  that  —  I  think 
you  might  want  to  take  a  second  look  at.  We  should 
use  the  number  of  employees  ~  should  be  accurately 
reflected  in  the  report. 

The  report  utilizes  a  figure  of  3,000 
shoppers  per  day.  You  want  to  bolster  how  you 
arrive  at  that  number  in  the  final  version. 


Both  sponsors  and  project  advocates  in 


10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


the  building  design.  It  also  does  not  adequately 
address  and  discuss  the  improvement  conditions 
necessary  to  address  the  impacts  on  traffic  flow. 
The  only  improvement  conditions  that  seem  to  be 
addressed  are  the  Cortland  Street  pedestrian 
walkways  and  signals;  the  conditional  consideration 
should  be  given  to  other  intersections.  . 


I  will  say  that  one  thing  I  see  is  the 
improvements  to  Bayshore  do  not  address  access  to 
other  Bayshore  businesses.  The  vehicle  access  to 
and  from  the  project  does  not  provide  access  to 
neighboring  businesses.  Vehicles  will  be  directed 
to  the  project,  and  away  from  the  project. 
Improvements  to  Bayshore  do  not  include  pedestrian 
access  to  neighboring  businesses.  


On  Page  40  and  41,  under  the  general 
plan,  the  D-EIR  lists  the  key  objectives  and 
policies  of  the  general  plan  relevant  to  the 
proposed  project.  Further  discussion  is  necessary 
beyond  listing  the  general  plan  objectives. 
Discussion  relative  to  how  the  project  meets  these 
goals  is  necessary. 

The  project  design  seems  inconsistent 
with  urban  design  element  Policy  2  and  6.  The  D-EIR 
should  detail  how  the  project  meets  the  general  plan 


60 


77 


27 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-34 


32  (Pages  122  to  125) 


July  10,  2003 


Page  126 


27 

5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12  ' 
13 

74 

16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
72  ' 

139 

25 


policies  as  listed. 

Also  under  the  transportation  element, 
Policy  6.1,  the  project  design  as  presented  does  not 
appear  to  designate  expedient  routes  for  freight 
trucks  as  required  by  the  policy. 

The  lack  of  adequate  crossings  fails  to 
provide  —  is  not  mentioned  adequately  in  Policy 
23.7.  The  truck  entry  provided  in  the  project 
design  does  not  adequately  serve  the  30  daily  truck 
deliveries  anticipated  by  the  project,  and  therefore 
it  does  not  meet  Policy.40. 1 . 

On  Page  62,  Paragraph  2  indicates 
Cortland  Avenue  will  see  an  increase  in  vehicle 
traffic  of  106  vehicles  during  the  weekday,  and  159 
vehicles  during  the  Saturday  peak.  It  is 
anticipated  this  will  result  in  increase  in  hourly 
traffic  volumes.  And  I  think  that  this  merits 
further  discussion  of  where  vehicle  access  to  the 
project  could  be  determined  —  that  it  might 
discourage  or  encourage  the  use  of  Cortland  Avenue. 
I  think  more  discussion  needs  to  happen  there. 

Improvement  conditions  to  the  project  was 
identified  on  Page  1 10,  and  I  think  are  inadequate 
and  merit  further  discussion. 

Additional  measures  may  be  necessary  to 


Page  128 


10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 


traffic  problems  on  Bayshore  and/or  Cortland  Street. 

The  project  design  will  add  to  the 
traffic  problems  by  virtue  of  the  layout  of  the 
parking  garage  access,  and  the  truck  entry  off  of 
Waterloo.  More  analysis  should  be  given  to  a  design 
that  provides  better  traffic  flow  to  and  from  the 
project  area,  with  improvement  conditions  made  by 
the  project  sponsor  to  prevent  traffic  jams  into  the 
project.  


79 


I  have  a  couple  of  chings  about  soil,  but 
it  is  really  late,  and  since  I  can  provide  written 
comments  I  am  going  to  provide  the  rest  of  my 
comments  as  a  written  document. 

That  is  all  I  have  on  that.  Anything 

else? 


here. 


this? 


We're  going  to  take  a  1 0-minute  break 
SECRETARY  AVERY:  Are  you  finished  with 


PRESIDENT  BELL:  Yes. 

SECRETARY  AVERY:  You  need  to  close  the 
public  hearing. 

PRESIDENT  BELL:  Public  hearing  of  this 
session  is  closed.  Written  comment  taken  until  July 
11. 


139 


94 

9 
10 
11 
12 

139 

16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 

79 

I  25 


Page  127 


address  traffic,  including  improvements  to 
additional  intersections  such  as  Oakdale  and  Loomis, 
where  truck  traffic  will  access  the  truck  entry,  and 
at  Industry  and  Loomis,  or  Boutwell  and  Loomis  — 
which  may  be  another  access  direction. 


The  parking  garage  will  not  accommodate 
all  cars  on  peak  days,  and  off-street  parking,  as 
identified  in  the  D-EIR  at  Loomis  and  Waterloo  — 
could  impact  the  access  to  the  parking  garage. 


The  project  sponsor  indicates  the  project 
will  have  an  adverse  effect  on  traffic  by  the  year 
2015,  but  doesn't  indicate  the  project  sponsor's 
commitment  to  funding  improvement  conditions. 

The  project  sponsor  assumes  the  cost  of 
future  improvements  will  not  be  borne  by  the  project 
sponsor  but  by  the  City.  An  improvement  conditions 
should  discuss  how  the  project  sponsor  will  address 
these  improvements  if  the  City  cannot  or  will  not 
implement  the  improvements. 


The  project  design  shows  --  this  will  be 
the  last  one  I  read,  and  there's  about  20  more  — 


the  project  design  shows  the  parking  ramps  near 
Waterloo  Street  vehicle  access.  Further  analysis  is 
needed  to  determine  if  this  will  contribute  to 
traffic  congestion  on  Waterloo,  thus  creating 


33  (Pages  126  to  129) 


LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-35 


1 


July  10,  2003 


Page  3326 

CERTIFICATE  OF  REPORTER 

I,  George  Schumer,  a  Certified  Shorthand 
Reporter,  hereby  certify  that  the  witnesses,  if  any, 
in  the  forgoing  matter  were  by  me  duly  sworn  to  tell 
the  truth,  the  whole  truth  and  nothing  but  the  truth 
in  the  within-entitled  cause; 

That  said  proceeding  was  taken  down  in 
shorthand  by  me,  a  disinterested  person,  at  the  time 
and  place  therein  stated,  and  that  the  proceedings 
were  thereafter  reduced  to  typewriting  under  my 
direction  and  supervision; 

I  further  certify  that  I  am  not  of 
counsel  or  attorney  for  either  or  any  of  the  parties 
to  the  said  proceeding,  nor  in  any  way  vested  in  the 
outcome  of  this  cause,  and  that  I  am  not  related  to 
any  of  the  parties  thereto. 

DATED:                ,  2003. 
George  Schumer,  CSR 

.  34  (Page  3326) 

LegaLink  San  Francisco  (415)  359-2040 
F-36 


Appendix  G 


Community  Commitments  of 
Home  Depot,  U.S.A.,  Inc. 


COMMUNITY  COMMITMENTS  OF 
HOME  DEPOT,  U.S.A.,  INC. 
FOR  BAYSHORE  BOULEVARD  STORE 


BACKGROUND 

A.  On  January  23,  2001,  Home  Depot  filed  an  Environmental  Review 
Application  with  the  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  for  a  Home  Depot  store  on  the 
former  site  of  the  Goodman's  Lumber  and  Whole  Earth  Access  businesses  on  Bayshore 
Boulevard  within  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco.  The  proposal  is  to  demolish  the 
existing  two  buildings  and  to  construct  (1)  a  two-story  main  store,  with  approximately 
96,250  square  feet  on  the  first  floor  and  38,405  square  feet  on  the  second  floor,  plus  an 
enclosed  greenhouse  of  approximately  9,888  square  feet  and  an  outdoor  garden  center  of 
approximately  8,546  square  feet,  and  (2)  a  separate,  but  attached,  approximately  96,374 
square  feet,  550  space,  two-story  parking  garage  with  three  levels  of  parking  (ground 
floor,  first  deck  and  second  deck)  (collectively,  the  "Project").  The  Project  is  expected  to 
provide  up  to  300  total  jobs,  with  approximately  200  of  those  being  new  jobs. 

B.  The  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Project  Area  Committee  ("PAC")  is  a  publicly 
elected  body  of  citizens  representing  the  interests  of  Bayview  Hunters  Point  in  planning 
for  the  future  and  guiding  redevelopment  efforts  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
Redevelopment  Survey  Area  as  required  by  the  California  Community  Redevelopment 
Law.  The  Redevelopment  Law  requires  representatives  from  the  community  to  represent 
four  major  categories  of  local  citizens.  The  21  seats  on  the  PAC  include  tenants 
representatives,  homeowner  representatives,  business  representatives,  and  community 
organizations. 

C.  Since  its  formation,  the  PAC  has  engaged  in  a  collaborative  community 
effort  to  develop  a  unified  and  comprehensive  vision  to  guide  the  implementation  of 
plans,  programs  and  projects.  That  process  has  resulted  in  the  publication  on  November 
13,  2000  of  the  approved  text  portion  of  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Community 
Revitalization  Concept  Plan  (the  "Concept  Plan"). 

D.  One  of  the  key  elements  of  the  Concept  Plan  is  the  Northern  Industrial 
Area  Year  2020  Focus  Area  Plan  (the  "Northern  Industrial  Area  Plan").  This  plan 
recognizes  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  corridor  (where  the  Project  is  proposed  to  be  located) 
as  being  dominated  by  large-scale  commercial  uses.  The  PAC  has  identified  the 
Bayshore  Boulevard  corridor  as  situated  within  an  economic  development  "activity 
node,"  the  OAKINBA  Node,  which,  in  addition  to  the  six  extant  activity  nodes  as 
identified  in  the  Concept  Plan,  will  be  prioritized  in  planning  and  zoning  use  discussions 
and  approvals.  Existing  larger  scale  commercial  facilities  along  the  corridor  were  built 
mainly  in  the  1940s  and  1950s  and  include  wholesale  centers,  restaurants,  auto  repair 
facilities  and  other  uses  capitalizing  on  proximity  to  the  freeways. 

E.  The  Northern  Industrial  Area  Plan  sets  forth  a  vision  for  revitalization  of 
this  area  that  includes  (1)  maintaining  and  expanding  industry  within  the  area  to  increase 


G-1 


the  job  base  and  support  the  development  of  entrepreneurial  opportunities;  (2)  the 
promotion  of  policies  and  land  use  decisions  that  provide  job  training,  employment  and 
business  opportunities  to  local  residents;  (3)  economic  development  that  fosters  clean 
industry  and  facilities  to  improve  the  quality  of  life  for  area  residents  and  workers;  and 
(4)  creating  public  amenities  that  facilitate  transit,  truck  and  pedestrian  travel  through  the 
area,  beautify  the  streetscapes,  and  buffer  housing,  schools  and  parks  from  industrial 
uses.  The  PAC  has  advocated  permanent  Industrial  Preservation  Zone  ("IPZ")  controls 
over  the  Bayshore  corridor  and  adjacent  areas. 

F.  The  Northern  Industrial  Area  Plan  envisions  local  hiring  and  training 
requirements  for  new  development  that  include  First  Source  Hiring,  resident  training  and 
mentoring  programs  to  be  negotiated  as  part  of  all  new  development  proposals.  Home 
Depot  is  committed  to  a  job  training  and  employment  program  that  will  foster  respect  for 
the  community  and  the  people  served,  provide  service  to  the  community  consistent  with 
its  cultural  history,  develop  programs  that  are  consistent  with  community  priorities,  and 
promote  a  workplace  environment  where  all  associates  have  the  opportunity  to  learn, 
grow  and  contribute.  Home  Depot  is  committed  to  working  with  community-based 
organizations  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  Area  in  order  to  ensure  that  its  jobs  and 
training  programs  for  the  Project  achieve  the  maximum  benefits  for  this  community. 

G.  San  Francisco  residents  are  currently  spending  approximately  $40,000,000 
at  the  Home  Depot  store  in  Colma,  California.  If  this  money  were  spent  at  a  Home  Depot 
store  located  within  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  it  would  generate  almost 
$500,000  of  new  tax  revenues  for  San  Francisco's  General  Fund. 

H.  Home  Depot  has  contributed  to  the  local  community  through  its  "Team 
Depot"  projects.  Over  the  years,  Home  Depot  has  made  a  number  of  contributions  to  San 
Francisco  organizations  through  this  employee-based  volunteer  program,  which 
contributes  hundreds  of  volunteer  hours  and  merchandise  donations  to  restore  school 
gardens,  upgrade  neighborhood  centers  and  construct  and  repair  playgrounds.  Team 
Depot  has  directly  benefited  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  community  through  several 
projects,  including  providing  volunteers  to  lead  classes  for  senior  citizens  in  the  Bayview 
Hunters  Point  neighborhood  on  how  to  weatherize  homes  during  the  winter  months. 

I.  Home  Depot  has  been  diligently  working  with  PAC  members  in  order  to 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  consistent  with  the  Concept  Plan  and  also  to  ensure  that  the  new 
store  will  be  an  active  participant  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  community,  and  that  the 
employees  of  the  store  represent  the  diversity  of  the  residents  of  the  neighborhood. 

J.        Home  Depot  has  made  multiple  presentations  to  the  PAC's  Land  Use, 
Planning  and  Transportation  subcommittee,  and  the  Economic,  Employment  and 
Education  subcommittee,  and  has  incorporated  these  subcommittees'  suggestions  and 
requirements  into  the  Project. 

K.       Modifications  to  the  Project's  site  plan  and  architecture  that  were  desired 
by  the  PAC  have  been  incorporated  into  the  conceptual  design  package  and  will  be 


G-2 


incorporated  into  the  proposed  Project  design  to  be  approved  by  the  City.  These 
modifications  include  the  following,  all  of  which  have  been  incorporated  into  the  site 
plan  and  elevations  attached  hereto  as  Exhibit  A: 

•  A  Project  driveway  off  Loomis  Avenue  to  help  alleviate  congestion  on 
Bayshore  Boulevard; 

•  Changes  to  the  facade,  the  entryways  and  the  color  of  the  store; 

•  Screening  of  the  garage  elevation  along  the  Waterloo  Street  side;  and 

•  Installation  of  solar  panels  on  the  roof  of  the  store  for  the  purpose  of 
harnessing  power  to  be  used  within  the  store. 

In  addition,  Home  Depot  has  agreed  to  use  "green"  building  practices  in  the  construction 
of  the  store,  as  enumerated  on  Exhibit  B  attached  hereto. 

L.       The  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  is  preparing  an  environmental 
impact  report  ("EIR"),  in  accordance  with  the  California  Environmental  Quality  Act 
("CEQA"),  to  analyze  the  environmental  effects  of  the  Project,  focusing  particularly  on 
transportation,  air  quality  and  land  use  issues.  The  Draft  EIR  will  be  subject  to  a  45  day 
public  review  and  comment  period  (including  a  public  hearing  before  the  Planning 
Commission),  after  which  comments  will  be  responded  to  in  writing,  and  the  Planning 
Commission  will  consider  certification  of  the  resulting  Final  EIR.  The  Planning 
Commission  will  consider  the  contents  of  the  EIR  when  acting  on  the  discretionary 
review  approval  of  the  Project.  The  CEQA  process  in  general,  and  the  preparation  and 
consideration  of  the  EIR  in  particular,  ensures  that  the  Project  approval  process  will 
include  and  inform  the  public  and  the  decision-makers. 

COMMUNITY  COMMITMENTS 

1.  Activities  Prior  to  City  Approval  of  Project.  Within  60  days  of  the 
endorsement  of  the  Project  by  the  PAC,  Home  Depot  shall: 

(a)  Arrange  to  have  the  Home  Depot  Senior  District  Manager  for  the 
area  that  the  Project  is  within  meet  with  members  of  the  PAC's  Executive  Committee  to 
discuss  the  Project; 

(b)  Arrange  to  have  Home  Depot's  Human  Resources  Area  Manager 
meet  with  members  of  the  PAC's  Executive  Committee  to  discuss  the  Project;  and 

(c)  Identify  a  Home  Depot  corporate  executive  level  contact  who  will 
be  the  primary  neighborhood  community  liaison  between  Home  Depot  and  the  PAC  and 
the  PAC's  constituency. 

2.  Site  Plan  and  Architecture.  Home  Depot  will  undertake  the  following 
activities  associated  with  the  site  plan  and  architecture  of  the  Project: 


G-3 


(a)  Site  Plan  and  Elevations:  Within  fifteen  (15)  days  of  the 
endorsement  of  the  Project  by  the  PAC,  Home  Depot  will  amend  its  Environmental 
Review  Application  filed  with  the  City  to  reflect  the  site  plan  and  elevations  attached  as 
Exhibit  A. 

(b)  "Green"  Construction:  In  the  construction  of  the  Project,  Home 
Depot  will  employ  green  building  practices  as  outlined  on  Exhibit  B  attached  hereto. 

(c)  Solar  Power:  Home  Depot  will  install  solar  panels  on  the  roof  of 
the  new  store  for  the  purpose  of  harnessing  power  to  be  used  within  the  store. 

(d)  Home  Depot  will  notify  the  PAC  of  any  substantial  changes  to  the 
proposed  plans  or  drawings  for  the  Project  (other  than  those  already  represented  in  the 
site  plan  and  elevations  attached  as  Exhibit  A)  that  Home  Depot  submits  to  the 
Department  of  City  Planning  prior  to  the  Planning  Commission's  discretionary  review 
hearing  on  the  Project. 

3.        Job  Training  and  Hiring  Program.  Following  final  approval  of  the  Project 
by  all  City  agencies  and  departments,  and  upon  and  after  the  start  of  construction,  Home 
Depot  will  undertake  the  following  activities  in  a  good  faith  effort  to  ensure  that  (i)  at 
least  fifty  percent  (50%)  of  the  store's  approximately  200  newly  hired  associates  are 
residents  of  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  neighborhood  and  (ii)  at  least  fifty  percent  (50%) 
of  persons  hired  for  Project  construction  are  San  Francisco  residents,  with  at  least  one 
half  of  those  (twenty- five  percent  (25%)  of  the  total)  being  residents  of  the  Bayview 
Hunters  Point  neighborhood: 

(a)  Comply  with  the  City's  First  Source  Hiring  Program  (set  forth  in 
Chapter  83  of  the  San  Francisco  Administrative  Code)  for  both  construction  and 
permanent  jobs; 

(b)  Require  its  general  contractor  for  construction  of  the  Project  to 
comply  with  the  City's  First  Source  Hiring  Program  and  to  make  a  good  faith  effort  to 
meet  Home  Depot's  local  hiring  goals  for  construction  activities  (set  forth  above); 

(c)  Implement  the  Neighborhood  Job  Training  and  Hiring  Program 
("THP";  attached  hereto  as  Exhibit  C),  a  comprehensive  employment  program  using 
Home  Depot  and  community  resources  to  provide  an  opportunity  for  meaningful  careers 
for  the  members  of  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  community,  specifically  by  undertaking 
the  activities  set  forth  in  Sections  C,  D  and  E  of  the  THP;  and 

(d)  Prior  to  issuance  by  the  City  of  the  site  permit  for  the  Project, 
contract  (either  directly  or  indirectly),  for  a  period  of  no  less  than  five  (5)  years,  with  one 
or  more  community-based  organizations  ("CBOs")  based  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
area,  whose  responsibilities  will  include,  but  not  be  limited  to,  the  following: 

i.         Assist  Home  Depot  in  implementing  the  THP. 


G-4 


ii.  Actively  recruit  job  candidates  from  the  Bayview  Hunters 
Point  neighborhood  and  train  those  candidates  in  life  skills  and  job  skills. 

iii.  Coordinate  training  efforts  with  Home  Depot,  which  will 
provide  Home  Depot  product  knowledge  courses  to  the  CBO-identified  candidates. 

iv.  Prepare  trained  candidates  to  use  Home  Depot's  store  level 
entry  computerized  kiosk  job  application  system. 

v.  Monitor  the  success  of  the  THP  by,  for  instance, 
documenting  the  number  of  trained  candidates  that  apply  for  jobs  and  the  number  that 
receive  job  offers  from  Home  Depot  as  a  result. 

vi.  Assist  Home  Depot  in  fulfilling  reporting  requirements 
under  the  First  Source  Hiring  Program. 

vii.  Coordinate  with  other  CBOs  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point 
area  and  in  surrounding  economically  disadvantaged  neighborhoods  to  maintain  the 
number  of  candidates  at  a  level  that  could  enable  Home  Depot  to  meet  its  local  hiring 
goals. 

viii.  Recruit  and  train  candidates  for  construction  jobs,  and  work 
with  Home  Depot's  general  contractor  to  meet  the  local  hiring  goals  for  construction 
jobs. 

4.        Community  Benefits.  Following  final  approval  of  the  Project  by  all  City 
agencies  and  departments,  and  upon  and  after  opening  of  the  store  (unless  a  different  time 
frame  is  indicated  below  for  a  particular  item),  Home  Depot  will  implement  the  following 
community  benefit  programs: 

(a)  Team  Depot  Decisions:  To  further  Home  Depot's  goal  that  a  fair 
share  (in  consideration  of  the  store's  market)  of  Team  Depot  resources  and  person-hours 
are  donated  to  projects  within  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area,  and  that  donated  resources 
are  matched  to  projects  for  which  the  community  has  identified  a  need,  the  Team  Depot 
Captain  for  the  San  Francisco  store  will  consult  with  a  designated  representative  of  the 
PAC  before  Team  Depot  spending  decisions  for  the  Bayshore  Boulevard  store  are  made. 

(b)  "Green  "  Products:  The  Bayshore  Boulevard  Home  Depot  will 
carry  "green"  products  (including  photovoltaics)  within  the  store.  A  representative  list  of 
such  products  is  attached  hereto  as  Exhibit  D.  Once  the  store  is  operating,  Home  Depot 
will  make  a  good  faith  effort  to  identify  approved  installers  of  such  "green"  products  who 
are  based  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area,  so  that  such  information  will  be  available  to 
customers. 


G-5 


(c)  "Green"  Classes:  Home  Depot  will  develop  and  offer  within  the 
Bayshore  Boulevard  store  (as  customer  demand  warrants)  a  curriculum  for  in-store 
classes  on  the  availability,  use  and  installation  of  "green"  products  offered  by  Home 
Depot. 

(d)  Donation  of  Trees:  Within  two  months  of  opening  the  store,  Home 
Depot  will  donate  200  trees  to  a  community-based  organization  engaged  in  community 
gardening  or  beautification  activities  in  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area  for  planting,  in  a 
joint  effort  with  Team  Depot  participants,  within  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area. 

(e)  Delivery  Fee:  Home  Depot  will  establish  a  lower  fee  for  home 
deliveries  from  the  store  to  destinations  within  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  neighborhood 
(represented  by  the  94124  zip  code)  than  is  required  for  deliveries  to  other  areas  within 
San  Francisco. 

(f)  Curriculum  Coordination:  If  and  when  the  PAC  informs  Home 
Depot  that  the  PAC  (or  similar  organization  oriented  toward  physical  improvement  of  the 
Bayview  Hunters  Point  area)  is  sponsoring  a  renovation  campaign  for  homeowners 
within  the  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area,  Home  Depot  will  coordinate  its  curriculum  of  in- 
store  classes  with  such  renovation  campaign  to  assist  Bayview  Hunters  Point  area 
homeowners  in  obtaining  the  requisite  skills  for  such  renovation. 

(g)  Donation  of  Tools:  Upon  opening  the  new  store,  Home  Depot  will 
donate  tools  totaling  a  value  of  $5,000.00  to  the  Tool  Lending  Library  that  is  sponsored 
by  the  San  Francisco  Public  Library. 

(h)  Contribution  of  Funds:  Upon  opening  the  new  store,  as  a 
reinvestment  into  the  community  of  a  portion  of  enterprise  zone  tax  credits  for  which 
Home  Depot  may  be  eligible,  Home  Depot  will  make  a  contribution  for  use  in  job 
training  and  retention  (which  could  include  transportation  or  day  care  services)  and/or 
other  educational  activities  or  businesses  for  Bayview  Hunters  Point  residents.  The 
contribution  will  be  administered  by  a  third  party  fiscal  agent  for  the  benefit  of  Bayview 
Hunters  Point  residents,  with  input  and  advice  from  the  PAC. 


G-6 


I 

I 


I 

I 


p 

p 
p 
p 
p 
p 
p 

1 

p 

I 
I 


