IN THE 


Supreme Court of the United States 


OCTOBER TERM, 1944 


THE KROGER GROCERY & BAKING COMPANY, 
WESCO FOODS COMPANY, THE COLTER 
COMPANY, PAY’N TAKIT, INC., CHARLES M. 
ROBERTSON, JOSEPH BAPPERT, FRANK L. 
REOCK AND JOSEPH B. HALL, 

Petitioners, 
v. 


UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 
Respondent. 


PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE 
UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE TENTH CIRCUIT. 


BRIEF IN SUPPORT OF PETITION 


Frank E. Woon, 
Rosert S. Marx, 
Tuomas M. Lixarp, 
Attorneys for Petitioners. 


Nicnots, Woop, Marx & GinTER, 
Litiarp, Exson, Lewis & Porter, 


Of Counsel. 


EDA RTT PRS AEE DEES 
Tue JoHNSON & Harpin Co., Law PRINTERS 
CINCINNATI, OHIO 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

SNE oc. ascites aE Dale SAS Se od 8 we ee ‘2 
Opinions of the Courts Below ....................... 2 
my SN NN 50) Gs ae Cows ee nek 8 cana ee 3 
Summary Statement of Matters Involved ............ 3 
eT Eg eS eae ree ry 4 
Reasons Relied Upon for Granting the Writ .......... 5 
CRN S SOL AG hk aha wwe aN Rae At sew ee 13 
Brief in Support of Petition for Writ of Certiorari ... 14 
Te eee rere ee eow erat se 14 
Sen HE TE oso ER iin en ce 15 


The Fundamental Error of the Majority Opinion.. 20 
United States v. New York Great Atlantic & Pacific 


Tea Co., 137 F. (2d) 459, Distinguished ........ 25 
There Is No Justification for Returning the Indict- 
EE ER I os, He ve ae me Peres 26 
CR es ha hee Ba ee . 29 
CASES 
Anderson v. United States, 260 Fed. 557 ............. 11 
Anderson v. United States, 318 U. 8. 350 ............. 13 
Bowles v. United States, 319 U.S. 33 ................ 13 
Brown v. United States, 225 U. §. 392 ............... 27 
Collins v. United States, 253 Fed. 609 ............... 10 
Coreoran v. United States, 19 F. (2d) 901 .......... 10, 24 
Dunlop v. United States, 165 U.S. 486 .............. 8, 25 
Evans v. United States, 153 U. S. 584 ............... 5 
oe eB ee ee er ere ras 25 
Floren v. United States, 186 Fed. 961. ............ 11, 25 
Fontana v. United States, 262 Fed. 283 ............ 10, 24 
Foster v. United States, 253 Fed. 481 .............. 10, 25 


i 


seg 


PAGE 
Glasser v. United States, 315 U.S. 60 ........ d, 7, 9, 21, 23 
Hagner v. United States, 285 U. S. 427 .............. 5 
Hyde v. United States, 225 U. S. 347 .............. 27, 28 
Jarl v. United States, 19 F. (2d) 891 .............. 10, 24 
Jerome v. United States, 318 U.S. 101 .............. 13 
Knauer v. United States, 237 Fed.8 ................. 11 
Labor Board v. I. & M. Electrie Co., 318 U.S.9 ...... 13 
Lynch v. United States, 10 F. (2d) 947 ............ 10, 24 
McNabb v. United States, 318 U. S. 332 ............. 13 
Partson v. United States, 20 F. (2d) 127 ........... 10, 24 
Roberts v. United States, 320 U. S. 264 .............. 13 
Skelley v. United States, 37 F. (2d) 503 .............. 23 
Thornton v. United States, 271 U. S. 414 ............ 23 
Turk v. United States, 20 F. (2d) 129 ............. 11, 24 
United States v. Comyns, 248 U. S. 345 .............. 25 
United States v. Cook, 84 U.S. 168 .................. 6 
United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U.S. 542 ............ 6 
United States v. Hess, 124 U.S. 483 ................. 5 
United States v. Johnson, 319 U.S. 5038... 202.00... 13 
United States v. Norris, 281 U. S. 610 ................ 25 
United States v. N. Y. Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co., 
i a wide oe Reed be whe, 25 
United States v. Safeway Stores, Inc., 51 Fed. Supp. 
RR re i ee) sg 2,4 
United States v. Simmons, 96 U. S. 360 .............. 5 
United States v. Socony Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. 8. 150. 27 
United States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. 8. 372.. 27 
United States v. Tubbs, 94 Fed. 356 ................. 25 
White v. United States, 67 F. (2d) 71 ............. 23, 25 
Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 207 ........... 23 
Wong Tai v. United States, 273 U.S. 77 ............. 23 
ii 


as, a PUNT UENED 


STATUTES 


Act of July 2, 1890, ¢. 647, See. 1, 26 Stat. 209, 15 U.S. 
RI ONC ec ne gets oe aye 2, 3, 17 
Act of July 2, 1890, ¢. 647, Sec. 2, 26 Stat. 209, 15 U. S. 
C. Section 2 2 
Judicial Code, Section 240(a) as amended by the Act of 
February 13, 1925, 28 U.S. C. Section 347 ...... 
Section 37 of the Criminal Code, 18 U. S. C. Section 
ETE ee ah ee ee eee Se 


9 ey ~_* 


2 


CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS 


Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United 


AE ROR IR ER GE SEEE oe Met Ae Aaa I an el ae le 2, 6, 14 
Sixth Amendment to the Constitution of ~~ United 

ESE ER SENS ER ee ean ea rig See ...2, 5, 8, 14, 20 
Article 3, Section 2, Paragraph 3 of the Constitution of 

the United States Be WA OR ery Bate: 2,14 


ili 


Yi 
S 
F 
i 
3 
e 
4 
3 
5 


a EE 


ci es Sao ae teers 


i 
iy 


RB AAT AA, BOP CIO IF 


IN THE 


Supreme Court of the United States 
OCTOBER TERM, 1944 


THE KROGER GROCERY & BAKING COMPANY, 
WESCO FOODS COMPANY, THE COLTER 
COMPANY, PAY’N TAKIT, INC., CHARLES M. 
ROBERTSON, JOSEPH BAPPERT, FRANK L. 
REOCK AND JOSEPH B. HALL, 

Petitioners, 
v. 


UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 
Respondent. 


PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE 
UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE TENTH CIRCUIT. 


To The Honorable the Chief Justice and the Associate 
Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States: 


Petitioners and each of them above named respectfully 
pray that a writ of certiorari issue to review a judgment of 
the United States Cireuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth 
Circuit, entered August 26, 1944 (R. 124-5), reversing a 
judgment entered by the district court on demurrer be- 
fore trial (R. 40-1), holding fatally defective and dismiss- 


Italics supplied unless otherwise noted. 


oe ee 


ee 


ing the indictment in two counts purporting to charge pe- 
titioners with violations of Sections 1 and 2 of the Sher- 
man Act (Title 15, U. S. C., Sections 1 and 2) because the 
indictment does not meet the requirements of Article 3, 


Section 2, Paragraph 3, and of the Fifth and Sixth Amend- 
ments of the Constitution. 


2 


JURISDICTION 


The judgment of the Cireuit Court of Appeals was 
entered August 26, 1944 (R. 124-5). The jurisdiction of 
this court is invoked under Section 240(a) of the Judicial 
Code, as amended by the Act of February 13, 1925 (Title 
28, U.S.C., See. 347). 


OPINIONS OF THE COURTS BELOW 


The opinion of the district court is reported in 51 Fed. 
Supp. 448 and in the Record (pp. 33-53). The original 
opinion of the Court of Appeals rendered January 17, 1944, 
to which Judge Vaught dissented, is not reported but is 
printed as an appendix to the petition for writ of certiorari, 
filed by Safeway Stores, Inc., at pp. 29-53 thereof, (No. 

October Term, 1944). The opinion of the Court 
of Appeals on rehearing rendered August 26, 1944, and 
the dissenting opinion of Judge Phillips to which he ap- 
pended the dissent of Judge Vaught to the first decision 
are not yet reported but are printed in the Record in the 
order stated. (Majority opinion, R. 89-107, dissent of 
Judge Phillips, R. 107-110; dissent Judge Vaught, R. 
111-124.) The opinion of the Court of Appeals, rendered 
August 26, 1944, covers case No. 2807, involving a separate 
indictment against Safeway Stores, Inc., Maryland, et al., 
returned in the same court as the Kroger indictment (case 
No. 2808) and substantially similar thereto. However, the 


a A A IKE SABA ESO NLS TRB RN IIT SUSAR EST 
aaa Pad ~ Tears ad cme ww 


opinion also deals with eight other cases, Nos. 2792 to 2799, 
inclusive, involving indictments brought in the District 
Court of Colorado, respecting an alleged conspiracy in that 
state having as its objective retail sale prices of alcoholic 
beverages in Colorado which were determined to concern 
intrastate commerce and which are wholly disassociated 
from the grocery indictments against Kroger and Safeway. 


THE STATUTES INVOLVED 


The statutes involved are Sections 1 and 2 of the Sher- 
man Act as amended (Title 15, U.S.C., Sees. 1 and 2, 26 
Stat. 209). 


SUMMARY STATEMENT OF MATTER INVOLVED 


Petitioners were indicted in the District of Kansas on 
two counts (R. 1-24). The first count alleged a conspiracy 
by The Kroger Grocery & Baking Company, three subsidi- 
aries and five individuals as officers of the Kroger com- 
pany, and others unknown, to restrain interstate trade in 
‘food and food products’? (R. 16) somewhere in the 
United States, sometime during the twenty-six years pre- 
ceding the return of the indictment (R. 2). The second 
count alleged in similar language that the conspiracy was 
‘‘to monopolize a substantial part of the aforesaid inter- 
state trade and commerce’’ (R. 19). Jurisdiction and 
venue in Kansas are asserted by charging that the con- 
spiracy was carried out ‘‘in part’’ within the District 
of Kansas and that the petitioners performed in Kansas 
‘many’? of the acts set forth in Paragraph 20, and also 
since September 1, 1939, advertised ‘‘food and food 
products in Kansas City and elsewhere in the State of 
Kansas, below cost and below the price charged by them 
for similar products in other locations’ (R. 19). The pe- 
titioners filed a joint demurrer to the indictment (R. 25). 


2 Sa RERUN Ae ARR neared 


SPRAIN PP 


PON TY 


SL LOREEN ONPG RE ES NESTS PENT 


PER 


vee 
ay h 


4 


The district court sustained the demurrer and dismissed 
the indictment (R. 26) on the grounds set forth in the well 
reasoned opinion of the respected and late Judge Hopkins, 
reported in 51 Fed. Supp. 448 and in the Record (pp. 33- 
53). The Government appealed to the Cireuit Court of 
Appeals for the Tenth Circuit where it was first heard by 
Cireuit Judges Bratton and Phillips and District Judge 
Vaught. Judge Bratton wrote the majority opinion re- 
versing the District Court. Judge Phillips concurred; 
Judge Vaught dissented. A rehearing was granted (R. 
88). The second hearing was held April 24, 1944, before 
Cireuit Judges Phillips, Bratton, Huxman and Murrah 
(R. 88). On rehearing Judge Phillips, who concurred with 
Judge Bratton in the majority opinion on the first hearing, 
was convinced that the indictment was bad. Judges Hux- 
man and Murrah concurred with Judge Bratton in holding 
the indictment good. Judge Phillips then wrote a dis- 
senting opinion and appended thereto the dissenting opin- 
ion of Judge Vaught (R. 107-110). 


QUESTIONS PRESENTED 


The questions presented by this petition are very simple 
and very important, namely, 

First: Is the constitutional guarantee that ‘‘in all 
criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right to 
be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation” 
met by an indictment for conspiracy under the anti-trust 
laws, which charges the offense in the very words of the 


99 


statute and states no ‘‘time’’ except sometime during the 
last twenty-six years and no ‘‘place’’ except some place 
within the United States, and no subject matter except 
> and although alleging ‘‘terms’’ 
99 


‘*food and food products’ 


alleges no ‘‘circumstances’’ of said conspiracy? 


5) 


Second: Assuming that (as the courts below held) the 
indictment does not state ‘‘acts and intent with reasonable 
particularity of time, place and circumstances’’* so as to 
inform the accused of the nature and cause of the accusa- 
tion, is the indictment defective and demurrable or may it 
be remedied by a ‘‘bill of particulars’? and the constitu- 
tional guarantee made dependent on the discretion of the 
trial court and information supplied by the district attor- 
ney instead of by the grand jury? 

Third: May jurisdiction and venue be laid in a district 
hundreds of miles from the residence of the individual de- 
fendants and from the headquarters and domicile of the 
corporate defendant without alleging with reasonable par- 
ticularity as to time, place and circumstance, a single overt 
act committed in said distant district as part of said con- 
spiracy or that any of said individual defendants have ever 
been in said district? 


REASONS RELIED UPON FOR GRANTING 
THE WRIT 


First: Beeause the Court of Appeals decided an im- 
portant question of federal 'aw involving the civil and con- 
stitutional rights of individual defendants and the consti- 
tutional rights of the corporate defendants and the de- 
cision is in conflict with the decisions of this court in the 
following cases: 

United States v. Simmons, 96 U.S. 360, 362 
United States v. Hess, 124 U. S. 483, 487 
Bvans v. United States, 153 U.S. 584, 587 
Haguer v. United States, 285 U.S. 427, 43 
Glasser v. United States, 315 U.S. 60, 66 

The Sixth Amendment to the Federal Constitution pro- 
vides: ‘In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall en- 


* United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U.S. 542. 557. 


joy the right . . . to be informed of the nature and cause of 
the accusation.”’ 

The Fifth Amendment provides: ‘‘Nor shall any person 
be subject for the same offense to be twice put in jeopardy.”’ 

In the landmark case of United States v. Cruikshank, 92 
U. 8. 542, Chief Justice Waite stated at page 558 that the 
‘ndictment must ‘‘. . . furnish the accused with such a de- 
scription of the charge against him as will enable him to 
make his defense, and avail himself of his conviction or 
acquittal for protection against a further prosecution for 
the same cause; and, second, to inform the court of the 
facts alleged, so that it may decide whether they are suff- 
cient in law to support a conviction, if one should be had. 
For this, facts are to be stated, not conclusions of law 
alone. A crime is made up of acts and intent; and these 
must be set forth in the indictment, with reasonable par- 
ticularity of time, place, and circumstances.’’ These re- 
quirements have never been departed from—until now. It 
has continuously been held that ‘every ingredient of which 
the offense is composed must be accurately and clearly 
alleged in the indictment.’’ * 

The holding of the Court of Appeals that the indictment 
in the case at bar (analyzed in our brief) can be ‘‘remedied”’ 
by a bill of particulars makes a mockery of these consti- 
tutional requirements. Stripped of surplus language and 
conclusions, the indictment simply charges that the Kroger 
Company entered into a conspiracy with itself and its 
officers to restrain and monopolize interstate trade in ‘‘food 
and food products’’ sometime in the twenty-six year period 
from 1917 to 1943 somewhere in the United States. The 
time is nowhere stated. The place is nowhere stated. The 
subject matter is stated simply as food and food products, 
which includes food for humans, poultry and livestock. 
The period involved covers the business life of the de- 
fendants. The area covers America. The subjects are 


* United States v. Cook, 84 U. S. 168, \74. 


oe LGM LE PANO GO GA, ERE RE I RT OO - 
ELT Pt LOR INR RAE A RAPER DATO LTE TAGE INTE ONES PoE GOD * 
*3 bert 


7 


unnamed and could consist of many thousands of items. 
The defendants are not furnished with any information 
from which it is possible to prepare a defense, They can- 
not prepare to defend themselves as to every act over this 
vast period of time and over this vast area with respect to 
this vast number of subjects. Nor does the indictment pur- 
port to cover all the time or all the area or all the subjects. 
The defendants are left completely in the dark as to what 
time, what area and what subjects are involved in the al- 
leged conspiracy. As Judge Phillips said at bar: ‘The 
indictment places on defendants a burden beyond human 
comprehension. ”’ 
This Court recently said in Glasser vy. United States. 315 
U.S. 60, in discussing the Sixth Amendment: 
‘In all cases the constitutional safeguards are to be 
jealously preserved for the benefit of the accused, but 
especially is this true where seales of justice may be 
delicé itely poised between guilt and innocence.”’ (p. 67) 


* . * * ~ > 


‘The guarantees 8 of the Bill of Rights are the proteet- 
ing bulwarks against the reach of arbitrary power.’’ 
(p. 69) 

* *. * * . * 
“This (right to assistance of counsel) is one of the 
safeguards deemed necessary to insure fundamental 
human rights of life and liberty.” (p. 69) 


and that this right 


‘too fundamental and absolute to allow courts to in- 
dulge in nice caleulations as to the amount of prejudice 
arising from its denial.’ (p. 76) 


Second: Beeause the constitutional guarantee that the 
accused shall enjoy the right to be informed of the nature 
and cause of the aceusation against him with reasonable 
particularity as to time, place and circumstance does not 
rest in the discretion of the trial judge in granting or deny- 
ing a motion for a bill of particulars, or on information 


NAA, LP 


DAL INL DOG MELE IT BIBLE LEAMA ERE BIE A ERIE INA ATG 


8 


supplied by the district attorney, not found by the grand 
jury. The guarantees of civil rights contained in the Sixth 
Amendment are absolute and mandatory, and we contend 
that the failure to comply with constitutional provisions 
cannot be ‘‘remedied”’ at the unreviewable discretion of 
the trial judge. 

It is apparent that the majority opinions of the court 
below construe the indictment as defective (1) in failing 
to specify or describe ‘‘the kind or kinds of food and food 
products’? (R. 101); (2) in alleging a conspiracy to acquire 
the business of independent retail grocers and local chains 
throughout the United States, ‘‘ without naming or giving 
the location of the grocers and chains’’ (R. 101); (38) in 
charging that the defendant selected local areas to injure 
competition of independent grocers, meat dealers and local 
food chains, ‘‘without specifying the areas or naming the 
grocers, meat dealers or food chains’? (R. 101). (4) The 
majority further held that the indictment contained further 
vague and general charges ‘‘not necessary to detail, with 
similar omissions’’ (R. 101), and then said ‘‘but these in- 
dictments each charge in general terms a conspiracy to re- 
strain interstate trade and commerce, or to monopolize 
such trade and commerce, as the case may be, substantially 
in the language of the Act. And if the allegations in re- 
spect to the manner and means of effecting the object of 
the combination and conspiracy are not set forth in suffi- 
cient detail, the remedy is to apply for a bill of particu- 
lars’? (R. 101). 

It has frequently been held that a bill of particulars ad- 
dresses itself to the sound discretion of the court, ‘‘and 
its action thereon is not subject to review.’’* The in- 
formation furnished in response to the granting of a motion 
for a bill of particulars again rests, to a large extent, with 
the district attorney. Thus, the alleged ‘‘rem edy’’ makes it 


* Dunlop v. United States, 165 U. S. 486, 491. 


9 


unnecessary for the grand jury in returning an indictment 
to comply with the constitutional requirements of the Bill 
of Rights, and denies the accused one of the safeguards 
which this Court said was ‘‘deemed necessary to insure 
fundamental human rights of life and liberty,’”? a right 
‘too fundamental to allow courts to indulge in nice caleu- 
lations as to the amount of prejudice arising from its 
denial,’’ 

The majority applied language applicable to a conspiracy 
charge under Section 37 of the Criminal Code to an in- 
dictment for conspiracy under the anti-trust laws, over- 
looking the fact that in an anti-trust case, the conspiracy 
itself is the crime which must be stated with reasonable 
particularity as to time, place and circumstance. 

Judge Phillips points out in his dissent: 


‘At the oral argument, counsel for the government 
admitted it did not rely upon an express agreement or 
conspiracy but upon acts and circumstances from which 
a conspiracy may be implied. In neither indictment is 
the time, place, and circumstances of the alleged long- 
continued conspiracies set forth with particularity 
... Tl agree that it is not necessary to plead, with par- 
ticularity, the time, place and circumstances of the 
manner and means of effecting the objects of the con- 
spiracy." But it does seem to me that the time, place 
and circumstances of the unlawful agreement should 
be pleaded with particularity. Paragraph 23 of the in- 
diectment in No, 2807, and Paragraph 20 of the indict- 
ment in No. 2808, do plead the terms of the alleged 
unlawful agreements. But neither alleges them with 
any particularity as to time, place or circumstance, 
leaving the government free to prove acts and conduct 
from which it will ask the jury to infer the unlawful 
agreement, in No, 2807, limited only with respect to 
time to a period in excess of twenty-three years, and 
with respect to place, within twenty states of the 


* Glasser vy. United States, 315, U. S. 60, 66. 


awee — wore OO OT FOE Ore ee ere ere wong 


————————— 


10 


Union and in the District of Columbia, and in No. 2808, 
limited only with respect to time to a period in excess 
of twenty-six years and with respect to place, within 
nineteen states of the Union.’’ 


Judge Vaught met this vital question of civil rights in 
his dissent as follows: 


‘‘Certain matters, as to details, might be called for or 
requested by a bill of particulars, but the indictment 
must always be definite and clear as to the ingredients 
of the offense. If these are not set out with sufficient 
clarity to inform the defendant what he is required to 
meet, it is a defective indictment. If the ingredients 
of the offense are not contained within the four corners 
of that document, nothing that might be supplied by 
the prosecutor by way of a bill of particulars can suf- 
fice. It was not even contended in the Glasser case 
that the indictment was not specific as to the elements 
constituting the conspiracy. ... Where allegations in 
the indictment are not definite in stating the alleged 
conspiracy, the place, time and manner in which the un- 
lawful agreement was reached, which constitute the 
conspiracy, then the indictment is so defective that it 
cannot be cured by a bill of particulars.”’ 


The decision of the majority, that the defects in this in- 
dictment arising from its failure to meet constitutional re- 
quirements, can be ‘‘remedicd’”’ at the discretion of the trial 
court in passing upon a bill of particulars, is in conflict 
with the decision of other circuit courts of appeal in the 
following cases: 

Fontana v. United States, 262 Fed. 283 (C.C.A. 8) 
Collins v. United States, 253 Fed. 609 (C.C.A. 9) 
Lynch v. United States, 10 F. (2d) 947 (C.C.A. 8) 
Jarl v. United States, 19 F. (2d) 891 (C.C.A. 8) 
Corcoran v. United States, 19 F. (2d) 901 (C.C.A. 8) 
Foster v. United States, 253 Fed. 481 (C.C.A. 9) 
Partson v. United States, 20 F. (2d) 127 (C.C.A. 8) 


7 » se GE AOA PPD IE LE EL EO TIO RIOT: ACPA 0 I 


11 


Turk v. United States, 20 F. (2d) 129 (C.C.A. 8) 
Anderson v. United States, 260 Fed. 557 (C.C.A. 8) 
Floren v. United States, 186 Fed. 961 (C.C.A. 8) 
Knauer v. United States, 237 Fed. 8 (C.C.A. 8) 


Third: Because the question of whether individual de- 
fendants may be indicted and tried in a jurisdiction in 
which they have never been, located many hundreds of miles 
from their places of residence, upon vague and general con- 
clusions is of transcendent importance. 

A similar question arises with respect to the corporate 
defendants, whose headquarters and domiciles, and whose 
managerial activities are conducted in Ohio, many hundreds 
of miles from the district where the indictment was re- 
turned. It should be noted that the advertising of food 
products either below cost or below the price charged some- 
where else in the United States which is the vague conclu- 
sion upon which venue is alleged is not even named in the 
indictment as one of the ‘“‘terms’’ of the alleged conspiracy. 
The indictment will be searched in vain for any particulars 
as to any time, place or circumstance of forming or carry- 
ing out any conspiracy in Kansas (or elsewhere). While 
the venue paragraph alleges that defendants performed 
“many”? of the ‘‘acts’’ set forth in Paragraph 20, said para- 
graph 20 sets forth no ‘‘acts’’ of any kind, but describes in 
broad generalities the alleged ‘‘substantial terms’ of the 
alleged unlawful agreement. Terms are not acts, and not 
a single act is anywhere particularized in the indictment. 

Both the letter and the spirit of the constitutional re- 
quirement contained in Article III, Section 2, Paragraph 3, 
that ‘‘the trial of all crimes shall be held in the state where 
said crimes shall have been committed,’’ and of the Bill of 
Rights, that the accused shall be tried ‘“by an impartial jury 
of the state and district wherein the crime shall have been 
committed,’’ are flagrantly violated by this attempt to try 


‘coun 


OF DE STIS LATENT CELE SLE LR ODES SR INL GD ELLER ER OL 


PLPC UL. CRESS Fe FTE BOT EMS DONDE LONG 


12 


in Kansas a company and its individual officers for a con- 
spiracy which they could not have formulated or entered 
into in that district because they have never been there and 
because it is alleged that the policies of the corporations in- 
volved were determined by its managerial officers at its 
headquarters in Ohio. Nor does the indictment allege a 
single overt act pursuant to the conspiracy, within the state 
of Kansas. The indictment substitutes for the failure to 
particularize as to any acts, a mere conclusion as to ‘‘many 
acts’? having been done. Conclusions are not admitted by 
demurrer. 

This question squarely presents the issue as to whether 
citizens are to be tried hundreds of miles from their homes, 
and corporations hundreds of miles from their head- 
quarters, books and records, on general conclusions, with- 
out being given any information as to the time, place or cir- 
cumstances of a single act having been performed in the 
jurisdiction in which the indictment was returned. The 
question is fundamental to the liberty of American citizens. 
It is not technical, but so practical that the practice fol- 
lowed in this case operates to deny the accused a fair oppor- 
tunity to defend. 


SERA HERON mR RET ETP TES ATONE NENA EIN A CE IOI: 


13 


CONCLUSION 


The importance of the above three questions relating to 
the administration of criminal justice is such that this court 
should grant certiorari. 


United States v. Johnson, 319 U.S. 503 

Bowles v. United States, 319 U.S. 33 

Roberts v. United States, 320 U. S. 264 

McNabb v. United States, 318 U.S. 332 

Anderson vy. United States, 318 U. S. 350 

Labor Board v. I. & M. Electric Co., 318 U.S. 9 
Jerome v. United States, 318 U.S. 101 


For the foregoing reasons we earnestly submit and pray 
that a writ of certiorari be granted and that this court re- 
view and settle the questions herein presented. 


Respectfully submitted, 


Frank EK. Woon, 
Roserr S. Marx, 
Tuomas M. Litiarp, 


Attorneys for Petitioners. 
Nicnorts, Woop, Marx & GINTER, 


Littarp, Ermson, Lewis & Porter, 
Of Counsel. 


IRE ROAR. IV" TRG OES SIT ELUENT AT RE ITE RS BEAL ERED ILLS TERE NT OELIE I DIT: AI ID, SEF EEE DARE GENE BEINGS ASL BEV AO IEE AME LES I AGERE, 


14 


BRIEF IN SUPPORT OF PETITION FOR 
WRIT OF CERTIORARI 


Specifications of Error 


1. The Cireuit Court of Appeals erred in reversing the 
decision of the district court. 


2. The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in not holding 
that the failure of the indictment to inform the petitioners 
of the accusation against them with reasonable particu- 
larity as to time, place and circumstance violated the pro- 
visions of the Fifth and Sixth Amendments to the Consti- 
tution of the United States. 


3. The Cireuit Court of Appeals erred in holding that 
the omission from the indictment of these constitutional 
requirements can be ‘‘remedied’’ by an application to the 
district court for a bill of particulars. 


4. The Cireuit Court of Appeals erred in not holding 
that the attempt to assert jurisdiction and venue in the 
District of Kansas denied to the petitioners their right 
under Article 3, Section 2, Paragraph 3, and under Amend- 
ment Sixth of the Constitution to be tried only ‘‘in the 
state and district wherein the crime shall have been com- 
mitted.’’ 


Ca a aa an Le le Sen tae ce ee a 


ysinnserna cm ocame 
15 


Analysis of Indictment 


In the petition for certiorari, we assert that the indict- 
ment contains no information which will enable the de- 
fendants to prepare a defense. In the event of trial and ¥ 
judgment thereunder, defendants would be unable to plead i 
an acquittal or conviction in bar of any other proceeding : 
against them, based on the same matters for which they 
were acquitted or convicted in this indictment, because no 
specific time, place or subject matter are deseribed. In 
view of the length of the indictment, the court may at first 
blush think the statement that defendants are merely 
charged with an unlawful conspiracy under the anti-trust | 
laws, in the very words of the statute, without particulari- | 
zation as to time, place and circumstance, is an overstate- 
ment of the case. Careful analysis of the indictment dem- 
onstrates that we have correctly stated the case, and that 
the prolixity of language used in drafting the indictment 
is either descriptive of the eroe ery business or of the de- 
rendants’ history, and has nothing to do with the gist of 
the charge. Most of the indictment is either surplusage or 
the pleading of general conclusions without any particu- 
larization as to the time, place or circumstances involved. 

Count One of the indictment charges restraint of trade. 
Count Two, monopoly. Otherwise the two counts are sub- 
stantially the same. Hence this analysis, confined to Count 
One, applies equally to Count Two. 

The indictment begins in Section I by stating that it 
refers to an unknown time beginning on or about Janu- 
ary 1, 1917 and continuing to date. This covers a period 
preceding our entry into World War I and stretches 
through the administrations of Presidents Wilson, Hard- 
ing, Coolidge, Hoover and Roosevelt. Who ean come into 
a courtroom prepared to defend every act over practically 
his entire life? 


8 BO AS STIRS BEA BIT EOE (9p EE te Se EE FO 


» 


LP REED 


s 


SE LS I OREN ETE 


Pca AS A het 


” 


“es 
a 
| 


16 


Section II is devoted to dictionary definitions of words, 
but food is nowhere described, except that it includes food 
for humans and ‘for livestock and poultry.” 

Section III names the defendants, tells who they are 
and where they live. All of the individual defendants 
live in Cincinnati, Ohio. The corporate defendants are in- 
corporated in Ohio, have their principal place of business 
in Cincinnati, Ohio, where, the indictment says, ‘‘their 
principal officers remain and where their principal records 
are kept.’’ It also alleges that the individual defendants 
control all the business, policies and practices of the cor- 
porate defendants from Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Section IV sets forth voluminously a general deserip- 
tion of portions of the grocery business and some census 
figures, showing that in 1939, 387,337 grocery stores had 
sales of $7,721,753,000, which represented only 70% of the 
sales in stores in the United States, and that Kroger sales 
for the same period were only $2438,356,605 and the number 
of Kroger stores was approximately 3,422 (a fraction of 

% of the total sales and number of stores). The same 
section describes the acquisition of stores by the Kroger 
Company beginning in 1902 and continuing to 1939. It also 
deseribes the Kroger organization, its divisions and some 
of the numerous products manufactured, processed, canned, 
packed, bought, jobbed and sold by Kroger. This deserip- 
tion has nothing to do with the alleged combination and 
conspiracy, and covers fifteen paragraphs and nine pages 
(R. 6 to 15). 

The charging part of Count One is contained in Section 
V, paragraph 19, which charges, in the language of the 
statute, that for ‘‘many years’’ prior to the indictment, 
‘defendants formed a wrongful and unlawful combination 
and conspiracy to unduly, unreasonably and directly re- 
strain interstate trade and commerce in food and food 
products produced, distributed and sold in many states of 


17 


the United States, in violation of Section I of the Act of 
Congress of July 2, 1890.”’ 

The above quoted paragraph tells the defendants noth- 
ing more than the language of the Sherman Act. 

Paragraph 20 then sets forth what are called ‘‘substan- 
tial terms’? of the conspiracy. It cannot be contended that 
these ‘‘terms’’ inform defendants of any alleged ‘‘acts’’ 
so that they can properly defend themselves. The indict- 
ment’s ‘‘terms’’ are five in number, denominated ‘*A,’’ 
‘*B,’’ **C,”? **D”? and “‘K.’’ ‘‘A’’ is rather simple, ‘‘B”’ 


199 


has two subdivisions, ‘*¢ has three subdivisions, ‘*D" 


Yos 


has seven subdivisions, ‘*H’’ has two subdivisions. The 
reading of these ‘*terms’’ leaves layman and lawyer alike 
bewildered and perplexed. It is difficult to simplify this 
language so as to make common sense of it. 

Kor example, it is alleged in term ‘*A’’ that defend- 
ants, as part of the conspiracy, acquired ‘‘other stores.”’ 
There is nothing in the indictment stating what stores 
were so acquired, where they were located, or the date of 
acquisition. If Kroger had only acquired a few stores, it 
might be possible to defend against a charge that the ac- 
quisition of stores was part of a conspiracy to restrain 
trade. But the indictment, in paragraph 10, sets out that 
Kroger, in forty-nine transactions over a period not from 
1917, but from 1904 to 1939, aequired 2,317 stores. The 
indictment does not allege that a single one of these ae- 
quisitions was part of the alleged conspiracy, nor does it 
allege that all of these store acquisitions were part of an 
alleged conspiracy. Therefore, defendants must come to 
trial wholly unprepared on term ‘A.’’ They cannot be 
expected to come to trial with all the documents and all 
the witnesses to defend themselves as to each of 2.317 
stores acquired during a thirty-five year period of time. 
Many of the men who negotiated these acquisitions are 


dead. The papers and documents are not in existence. 


DES RNS . Ladd 
| ete Stead SIP NA LIRR ERB 


18 


This so-called ‘‘term’’ is a mere conclusion and like the 
others, was drawn to confound and confuse the defendants 
in their defense. 

Obviously, if it is alleged that the acquisition of all stores 
‘as a part of the conspiracy, that fact should be alleged. 
If only a part of these acquisitions is the subject of com- 
plaint, then the indictment should specify which transac- 
tions are covered. The Grand Jury must have known. 
There is no excuse for not naming any transaction. 

Term ‘‘B’’ is that defendants ‘‘selected local areas 
in which to injure competitors, by selling lower than celse- 
where’? and combining with other big chains. No local 
areas are described. The commodities sold lower are not 
identified. The place where sold is unnamed. The com- 
petitor injured is not named. Nor are the defendants ad- 
vised with what unnamed chain and during what unnamed 
time within the period of the last twenty-five years they 
are alleged to have combined. How can a criminal charge 
be more vague and general and more calculated to conceal 
from the defendants what specifie charge they must pre- 
pare to meet when brought to the bar of the court for 
trial? Since Kroger has thirty-one hundred local stores 
seattered in nineteen states, the local areas referred to 
may relate to any one of the thirty-one hundred local areas 
in which it does business. Kroger sells thousands of differ- 
ent commodities. It has literally hundreds of thousands of 
small and large competitors. Many economic factors must 
be taken into consideration in fixing prices. Of necessity, 
prices vary greatly in different store locations. No one 
would expect oranges to sell in Kansas at the same price 
at which they are sold near California or Florida, When 
the indictment charges defendants with selling unnamed 
articles in unnamed areas lower than ‘‘elsewhere,’’ at 
sometime during the last twenty-five years, we are hope- 
lessly confused, instead of being ‘‘informed”’ of the nature 
of the accusation. 


ppeenenasemacen Se ee 


19 


Term ‘‘C’’ simply alleges it was among the ‘‘terms’’ 
that defendants prevent competition in selected areas 
throughout the United States by combining with inde- 
pendent grocers, of whom there are hundreds of thousands, 
local and national chains and manufacturers of food and 
food products, of which there are approximately 25,000, 
and others to fix and maintain resale prices in one or more 
of these selected areas and ‘‘by making agreements, divid- 
ing and apportioning trade territory in such areas.’? 

Term ‘‘D’’ of paragraph 20 alleges that it was one of 
the ‘terms’? that defendants obtain buying preferences 
over unnamed competitors by controlling the terms and 
conditions upon which unidentified manufacturers, proc- 
essors, packers and other suppliers of food and food prod- 
ucts sell to the defendants and to other competitors, and 
that this was to be accomplished by various devious meth- 
ods described in broad generalities. 

Term ‘“‘E”’ is a vicious generality. It alleges some 
false comparisons of ‘‘prices’’ with ‘‘competitors,’? ‘short 
changing’? and ‘‘short weighing’? some place, somewhere. 
What ‘‘prices’’?) What ‘‘competitors’??) What ‘sales’??? 
When? Where? In view of the millions of sales, thou- 
sands of items in thousands of stores, over a quarter of 
a century, how could a defendant ever prepare to defend 
himself against such charges without definite information 
as to when, where or with whom such transactions took 
place? 

The above analysis covers the only paragraphs of the 
indictment which purport to describe the charge, and Para- 
graphs 19, 20 and 21 will be searched in vain for any in- 
formation with respect to any definite time, place or cir- 
cumstance which will enable defendants to prepare their 
defense or to which they can intelligently plead. 

The indictment at bar is unique. To charge defendants, 
in the words of the statute, with restraint of “food and 


20 


food products,’’ is no different than to charge General 
Motors with restraint of trade in ‘‘machinery products”’ 
without stating whether the charge refers to automobiles, 
frigidaires, diesel engines or any one of the many articles 
of machinery which it manufactures. It is similar to an 
indictment against Armour or American Tobacco Com- 
pany charging a restraint of ‘“‘farm products’? without 
further particulars. Words like ‘¢machinery,’’ ‘‘minerals,”’ 
‘‘farm produets,’’ or ‘‘food and food products’’ are like 
‘trade and commerce,’’ so all inclusive as to be uninforma- 
tive. Acquiescence by the courts in the use of such gen- 
eralities would establish a dangerous precedent. Such in- 
dictments do not satisfy the constitution, do not descend 
to particulars but enable the prosecution to conceal from 
the defendants, until the last minute of the trial, the defi- 
nite and specific acts with which they are charged. 


THE FUNDAMENTAL ERROR OF THE 
MAJORITY OPINION 


As we read the opinions below the court was unanimous 
in concluding that the indictments of Kroger and Safeway 
were defective in omitting to state any time, place or cir- 
eumstance or any act or combination with respect to any 
identifiable subject and that defendants could not prepare 
to defend themselves against such general charges without 
further information. However, the judges differed as to 
the remedy for such defective indictment. The majority 
held that the omission of any particulars in the indictment 
returned by the grand jury could be ‘‘remedied”’ by ‘‘a 
bill of particulars,’’ and that the information omitted by 
the grand jury might be furnished by the district attor- 
ney and thereby save the indictment. The minority and 
the district judge held that the constitutional require- 
ments of the Sixth Amendment were among the funda- 


21 


mental bulwarks of life and liberty in the United States 
and could not be made dependent upon the discretion of 
either the district judge in acting on a motion for further 
particulars or the district attorney in supplying particu- 
lars. Individual defendants who face possible jail sentences 
should not be denied an opportunity to defend them- 
selves and their liberty, and should not be made depend- 
ent on discretionary bills of particulars furnished by dis- 
trict attorneys. Where human liberty is placed in jeopardy 
by grand jury indictment they are entitled to know what 
the grand jury found—not what the prosecuting attorney 
chooses to tell them. The dissenting judges were of the 
opinion that the remedy for the failure of an indictment 
to meet constitutional requirements was a motion to quash 
or a demurrer which would safeguard the civil rights of 
the accused and enable a proper indictment to be returned. 

Thus, the issue was between three judges (Bratton, Mur- 
rah and Huxman) who held that the remedy was to ask 
for a bill of particnlars, and three judges (Phillips, Vaught 
and Hopkins) who held that a constitutionally defective 
indictment should be quashed. 

We submit that the majority erred and that the error 
resulted from a misconception and a misapplication of the 
language of this court in Glasser v. United States, 315 U. 8S. 
60. The majority failed to keep in mind the distinction be- 
tween a ‘‘conspiracy’’ under Section 37 of the Criminal 
Code (U. S. C., Title 18, See. 88) and the different kind 
of conspiracy contemplated in the Sherman Act and hence 
misapplied decisions in Section 37 cases as being inter- 
changeably applicable to anti-trust cases. 

Section 37 forbids a conspiracy to commit ‘‘an offense 
against the United States.’” The mere formation of the 
conspiracy does not constitute the crime because, by the 
language of the Act, a necessary element is that one of 
the conspirators ‘‘do’’ an ‘‘act to effect the object of the 


22 


conspiracy.’’ Unless an ‘‘act to effect the object,’’ called 
the ‘‘overt act,’’ is committed there is no punishable crime 
under Section 37. 

The conspiracy contemplated in the Sherman Act is en- 
tirely different. It aims not ‘‘at an offense against the 
United States’’ but specifically relates to a conspiracy in 
restraint of interstate trade. An anti-trust conspiracy is 
a completed crime when the contract or combination is 
formed or entered into without regard to whether or not 
an overt act is committed. Hence, an overt act is essential 
to a conspiracy under Section 37 but is not essential under 
the Sherman Act except to establish jurisdiction when 
venue is laid at a point remote from the jurisdiction in 
which the conspiracy was formulated. 

Under Section 37 it is necessary that the primary crime, 
to-wit, the conspiracy, be entered into, and secondarily, 
that there be an overt act, sometimes referred to as the 
ways and means by which the conspiracy is carried out. 
It has uniformly been held in Section 37 cases that the 
primary crime, to-wit, the conspiracy, must be set forth 
with reasonable particularity as to time, place and circum- 
stance but that the ways and means by which the con- 
spiracy was carried out may be amplified by a bill of par- 
ticulars. The omissions in the indictment of Kroger do 
not concern ‘‘ways and means.’’ In the Kroger indictment 
there is a complete absence of any particulars as to the 
time, place and circumstances of the conspiracy—which 
is the crime. 

The confusion of the majority is evident from the open- 
ing sentence of the original opinion of Judge Bratton, 
which states: 

‘‘These are two criminal prosecutions for combining 
and conspiring to commit offenses against the United 


States in violation of Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman 
Act.’’ 


Ce Piso A ee WR SHEE? = 


23 


The same thought is subsequently repeated. The majority 
based their decision on Glasser v. United States, 315 U. S. 
60, which was a conspiracy indictment under Sec. 37. Be- 
cause of the Glasser opinion Judge Bratton erroneously 
said that it was necessary to overrule the prior decisions 
of the Tenth Cireuit Court of Appeals in the Skelley * and 
White * cases as being out of harmony with the Glasser 
case. The Glasser case is similar to the Williamson,* 
Thornton * and Wong Tai* cases. In all the above cases 
the secondary or objective act was ‘‘to commit an offense 
against the United States.’’ This offense in the Glasser 
case was to ‘‘defraud the United States.’’ This court said 
in the Glasser case at page 66: 


‘‘The indictment is sufficiently definite to inform peti- 
tioners of the charges against them. It shows ‘cer- 
tainty, to a common intent.’’? Williamson v. United 
States, 207 U. S. 425, 447. The particularity of time, 
place, circumstances, causes, ete., in stating the man- 
ner and means of effecting the object of a conspiracy, 
for which petitioners contend, is not essential to an 
indictment.”’ 


The above quotation was interpreted by the majority as 
requiring the court to overrule the decisions of that court 
in the Skelley and White cases and render a decision in the 
case at bar in conflict with a number of decisions in other 
circuit courts of appeal. We submit that this court did 
not intend to say in the Glasser case that the constitutional 
requirement of ‘‘time, place and circumstance” in an in- 
dictment charging a conspiracy is no longer necessary. 
No such revolutionary proposition was before this Court 
for decision. Examination of the Glasser indictment shows 
that the first count charged a definite place, to-wit, Chi- 
cago, at a definite time, to-wit, March 15, 1935. Glasser, an 

* Skelley v. United States, 37 Fed. (2d) 503; White v. United States, 67 


Fed. (2d) 71; Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425; Thornton vy. 
United States, 271 U. S. 414; Wong Tai v. United States, 273 U.S.77. 


ERAT R RELI RI 


Pa SA EET Sa LEA BA IPSS OE Shy Art ve aa 


24 


assistant United States district attorney, conspired with 
definitely named persons, to-wit, Kretske, Kaplan, Roth 
and Horton, to defraud the United States out of the honest 
services of its prosecuting officials. The ‘‘manner and 
means’? of accomplishing the conspiracy is set forth in 
some detail in paragraphs 15 to 39 which names fifty overt 
acts. Glasser’s contention was that ‘‘this part’’ of the in- 
dictment was too vague and it was with reference to ‘*this 
part’? of the indictment that this Court spoke in discussing 
the extent to which vagueness could be clarified by a bill 
of particulars. 

It would indeed be revolutionary if this Court should up- 
hold the erroneous opinion below and say now that time, 
place and circumstance are no longer essential in an anti- 
trust indictment. Such a holding would not only overrule 
a long line of anti-trust cases but also a long line of settled 
authorities in the courts of appeals holding that failure 
to particularize as to time, place and circumstance of the 
conspiracy which is the primary crime, cannot be remedied 
by a bill of particulars. For example, in Jarl v. United 
States, 19 Fed. (2d) 891, it was contended that indefinite- 
ness should have been cured by a motion for a bill of par- 
ticulars. The court said (p. 894): 


‘It cannot be used to cure an indictment fatally de- 
fective. Furthermore, we do not know on what reason, 
or by what authority a District Attorney can assume 
to specify the particular offense the grand jury in- 
tends to charge, nor do we believe that anv statement 
he might make in that respect would be binding as of 
record on a plea of former jeopardy. He has no power 
of control or right to change the action of that body.”’ 


The courts of appeals’ decisions with which the present 
decision is in conflict, include Fontana v. U.S., 962 Fed. 283; 
Lynch v. U. S., 10 Fed. (2d) 947; Corcoran v. U. S., 19 Fed. 
(2d) 901; Partson v. U. S., 20 Fed. (2d) 127; Turk v. U.S., 


ART 


por AEST Bi Mi BA hl B EL RS AL NN ICES ADR LING PH 


25 


20 Fed. (2d) 129; White v. U. S., 67 Fed. (2d) 71; Foster 
v. U. S., 253 Fed. Rep. 481; U.S. v. Tubbs, 94 Fed. 356. 

In Floren v. U. S., 186 Fed. 961 (C. C. A. 8), Judge San- 
born said at page 964: 


‘Where an indictment is so fatally defective in its 
statement of the facts alleged to constitute the offense 
charged that a conviction or acquittal upon it consti- 
tutes no defense to another prosecution for the same 
offense, a bill of particulars cannot eure it.’? 


In United States v. Norris, 281 U. 8. 619, the facts were 
stipulated. This Court said: 


BRS 


hee 


“Tf the stipulation be regarded as adding particulars 
to the indictment, it must fall before the rule that 
nothing can be added to an indictment without the 
concurrence of the grand jury by which the bill was 
found.’’ (p. 622) 
See also Ex parte Bain, 121 U. S. 1; United States v. 
Comyns, 248 U.S. 345; Dunlop v. United States, 165 U. S. 
486. 


United States v. New York Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea 
Co., 137 Fed. (2d) 459, Distinguished 

The government in the court below relied heavily upon 
the denial by this Court of certiorari in the above case* and 
the majority cite the same as an important authority. We 
are admonished that the denial of certiorari by this Court 
is not to be taken as any expression of an opinion on the 
merits of the case or on questions of law which may or 
may not have been brought forward or considered. Aside 
from this fact, examination of the indictment against the 
N. Y. Great Atlantic & Pacifie Tea Company indicates 
that the indictment in that ease was not as devoid of any 
specific: tion of time, place and circumstance as the Kroger 
and Safeway indictments, but contained certain definite 
allegations. 


*Certiorari denied 320 U. 8. 783. 


26 


In Part 5, 23 C(10) of the A. & P. indictment it is 
charged that the defendants cornered the ‘‘principal sup- 
ply of coffee available for importation into the United 
States during said siz months’ period and artificially in- 
creasing the prices of coffee in the United States.”’ 

In Part 5, 23 C(11)(c) of the A. & P. indictment meat 
and canned goods are specifically mentioned. In Para- 
graph 23A(2) of the A. & P. indictment the time of the 
alleged agreement is specified as being ‘‘during such price 
wars.’ 

In laying venue and jurisdiction the A. & P. indictment 
specifically charges that meat was sold in Dallas below 
cost and below the price charged for the same meat in other 
locations for the purpose of destroying the competition of 
independent meat dealers. 

The above examples taken from the indictment in the 
A. & P. case show that, while said indictment was far 
from a model of clarity and definiteness, it did contain 
specific and definite allegations with reference to time, 
place and subject matter in contrast to the indictments 
in the Kroger and Safeway cases which do not contain a 
single date, do not name one article of food, do not describe 
a single area and do not name one competitor or col- 
laborator. 


There Is No Justification for Returning the Indictment 
in Kansas 

Venue in Kansas is based upon the fiction of ‘‘construc- 
tive’? presence in a district where it is not claimed that 
any one of the individual defendants has ever set foot. 
The constitutional right to be tried only ‘‘in the state and 
district wherein the crime shall have been committed”’ 
loses all of its value unless its protection is afforded before 
the trial is held. We do not question the rule laid down 


27 


by this court,* that after conviction in a trial where it is 
proved that definite overt acts were committed within the 
district in carrying out a conspiracy, defendants could not 
challenge the venue of the crime in that district. However, 
where objection is made before trial the indictment must 
be examined to ascertain whether any acts pursuant to the 
conspiracy are set forth with reasonable particularity as 
to time, place and cireumstance to justify trying defend- 
ants in a jurisdiction far remote from their residence. 
When we examine the allegations with reference to venue 
we find that the climax in generalities has been reached. 
We are merely told, without specification, that the con- 
spiracy was carried out ‘‘in part’? in Kansas and that de- 
fendants performed in Kansas ‘‘many’’ of the acts set 
forth in Paragraph 20. When we turn to Paragraph 20 we 
find it sets forth substantial ‘‘terms’’—not acts. Which 
acts, of the unnamed and unknown ‘‘many,’’ is not re- 
motely suggested. The only statement is that defendants 
advertised ‘‘food and food products in Kansas City, 
Kansas, and elsewhere in the State of Kansas, below 
cost and below the price charged by them for similar prod- 
ucts in other locations.’ I+ should be noted that adver- 
tising as alleged is not even one of the ‘‘substantial terms”’ 
of the conspiracy set forth in Paragraph 20. Thus the de- 
fendants are left completely in the dark as to the time, 
place and circumstance of any act in Kansas because no 
act pursuant to the conspiracy charged is alleged. Fur- 
ther we would expect meat for instance to be not only 
advertised but sold cheaper in Kansas City than New York 
or ‘‘elsewhere’’ and it is frequently necessary to advertise 
articles below cost to move them from the shelves. 

We do not claim that the defendants have a constitu- 
tional right to be tried at their place of residence. We do 

* Hyde v. United States, 225 U. S. 347: Brown v. United States, 225 U. S. 


392; United States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U.S. 372: United States v. 
Socony Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150. 


28 


contend that if required to go to trial in Kansas upon this 
indictment their constitutional right to be tried in the dis- 
trict ‘‘where the crime shall have been committed’’ would 
be grossly abused and defendants will be subjected to an 
oppressive application of the rule which in certain cases 
permits basing venue upon overt acts in a foreign juris- 
diction. 

In Hyde v. United States, 225 U.S. 347, Justice MeKenna 
foresaw the danger which lurks in vague and general 
pleadings and said: 


“We realize the strength of the apprehension that to 
extend the jurisdiction of conspiracy by overt acts 
may give to the Government a power which may be 
abused and we do not wish to put out of view such 
possibility.’’ (p. 363) 


Here jurisdiction is extended in a conspiracy case with- 
out even alleging one ‘‘overt act’’! 

A greater abuse than that which was foreseen has now 
occurred and we conclude our discussion by quoting the 
forceful language of Mr. Justice Holmes in his dissenting 
opinion in the Hyde case. He said at page 386: 


‘“‘Obviously the use of this fiction or form of words 
must not be pushed to such a point in the administra- 
tion of the national law as to transgress the require- 
ment of the Constitution that the trial of crimes shall 
be held in the State and district where the crimes shall 
have been committed. Art. 3, See. 2, el. 3, Amendments, 
art. 6. With the country extending from ocean to 
ocean, this requirement is even more important now 
than it was a hundred years ago, and must be enforced 
in letter and spirit if we are to make impossible hard- 
ships amounting to grievous wrongs. In the case of 
conspiracy the danger is conspicuously brought out. 
Every overt act done in aid of it of course is at- 
tributed to the conspirators, and if that means that 
the conspiracy is present as such wherever any overt 


—7— REO OR REED 62 eB 


29 


act is done, it might be at the choice of the Govern- 
ment to prosecute in any one of twenty states in none 
of which the conspirators had been. And as wherever 
two or more have united for the commission of a crime 


there is a conspiracy, the opening to oppression thus 3 
made is very wide indeed. It is even wider if success 7 
should be held not to merge the conspiracy in the : 
crime intended and achieved. I think it unnecessary f 
to dwell on oppressions that I believe have been nrac- z 
tised or on the constitutional history impressively } 
adduced by Mr. Worthington to show that this is one i 
of the wrongs that our forefathers meant to prevent.”” ° 5 
; 

CONCLUSION e 

We respectfully submit that this Court should pass on : 


the serious questions herein presented. These questions 
transcend private interest. They concern every individual 
and the stockholders of every company with an extended 
business life. If the indictment in the Kroger case be sus- 
tained then a way has been opened to prosecute individuals 
and companies engaged in business by charging them with 
a conspiracy in general language, covering every act of 
their business lives for more than a quarter of a century, 
without further specification, and trying them at the 
farthest possible point from their residence and the head- 
quarters of their business, without any further particulars 
than the trial Judge in the District selected by the govern- 
ment may in his discretion ask the district attorney to 
furnish. Such procedure does not even pay feeble lip service 
to the provisions of our constitution which were intended 
to guarantee that the accused be fully and fairly informed 
of the time, place and circumstance of the crime charged 
so that he may have a full and fair opportunity to defend 
himself and which were also intended to guarantee that 
he would be tried where the crime was actually committed 
and not ‘‘constructively’’ at some jurisdiction far re- 


30 


moved from his residence, headquarters and place of busi- 
ness. As Judge Phillips said, these questions are not tech- 
nical—not theoretical—they are intensely practical. They 
concern the liberty of individuals—as well as the property 
of corporate stockholders. 

We believe they merit the consideration of the Court. 


Respectfully submitted, 


Frank EK. Woop, 
Rosert S. Marx, 
Tomas M. Litiarp, 


Attorneys for Petitioners. 


Set Lilteb i Bit dw 22 


ON IO ARR 8 


Page 

RIDMNONS MINOW hu cinh yokue wie wekaen anes. oe La eed eeu enes 1 

Tee hp ET EI eG OR OUR REG er eee eee 1 
Questions presented. --___._-___._..-_-_._- palewatees 2 f 
Statute involved_._...______- Sean & ceca dak a sak es ee 2 k; 
Statement... ___-- thie i ee Re aca ek we i 3. e 
II iii wre ink Bice Mek alk Gs oe " Reb LaKon and eee 7 i 
Conclusion _ .- ~~~ me ae 2 ore ll e 
CITATIONS f 
Cases: e 
tlasser v. United States, 315 U. S. 360_._.____.________._- 8,9 E 
Nash v. United States, 290 U.S. S76... . cecccd icc cose 10 : 
Safeway Stores, Inc. vy. United States, pending on certiorari, E 
PR occ ccccnccccssapedareuaynard thes shanennaees 7,8 : 
United States v. New York Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co., . 
137 F. (2d) 459, certiorari denied, 320 U. S. 783___....- 9 ; 


United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U.S. 150___- 10 e 

United States v. Trenton Poiteries Co., 273 U. 8S. 392_____- 10 
Statute: i 
Sherman Act, Act of July 2, 1890, Secs. 1 and 2, 26 Stat. ‘ 
Sy AO Us, Re i MOOR D, ncn skucemeassowsws enadeccs 2 


OL4S1— 44 


Guthe Supreme Court of the Anited States 


OctToBeR TERM, 1944 


THE Krocer Grocery & Bakina Co., ET AL., 
PETITIONERS 


v. 
UNITED StTaTEes OF AMERICA 


ON PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED 
STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE TENTH 
CIRCUIT 


BRIEF FOR THE UNITED STATES IN OPPOSITION 


OPINIONS BELOW 


The opinion of the district court on demurrer 
to the indictment (R. 33-53) is reported in 51 
F. Supp. 448. The opinion of January 17, 1944, 
of the Cireuit Court of Appeals was ordered 
withdrawn (R. 125) and is not reported. The 
opinion of August 26, 1944 of the Circuit Court of 
Appeals (R. 89-124) is not yet reported. 


JURISDICTION 
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals 


was entered on August 26, 1944 (R. 124-125). 
(1) 


2 


The petition for the writ of certiorari was filed 
October 6, 1944. The jurisdiction of this Court 
is invoked under Section 240 (a) of the Judicial 
Code as amended by the Act of February 13, 


1925. 
QUESTIONS PRESENTED 


1. Whether the allegations of the indictment 
are too vague and indefinite to apprise the defend- 
ants of the nature of the offenses charged. 

2. Whether the allegations of the indictment 
sufficiently show the jurisdiction or venue of the 
district court. | 

STATUTE INVOLVED 


The Act of July 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 209, known 
as the Sherman Act, as amended by the Act of 
August 17, 1937, 50 Stat, 693 (15 U. 8. C. 1, 2), 
provides in part as follows: 


Src. 1. Every contract, combination in 
the form of trust or otherwise, or conspir- 
acy, in restraint of trade or commerce 
among the several States, or with foreign 
nations, is hereby declared to be illegal: 
* * * Every person who shall make 
any contract or engage in any combination 
or conspiracy hereby declared to be illegal 
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, 
* * * 

Src. 2. Every person who shall monopo- 
lize, or attempt to monopolize, or combine 
or conspire with any other person or per- 
sons, to monopolize any part of the trade 


3 


or commerce among the several States, or 
with foreign nations, shall be deemed 
guilty of a misdemeanor, * * *, 


STATEMENT 


This case involves the validity of an indictment 
containing two counts. The first count (R. 2-19) 
charges a conspiracy to restrain interstate com- 
merece in food and food products, produced, dis- 
tributed and sold in many states of the United 
States, and the second count (R. 19-24) charges 
a conspiracy to monopolize a substantial part of 
such commerce, in violation of Sections 1 and 2, 
respectively, of the Sherman Act. Named as de- 
fendants were The Kroger Grocery & Baking 
Company, three corporate subsidiaries, and five 
individuals alleged to be officers, agents or em- 
ployees of one or more of the corporate defendants 
(R. 4-5, 11). 

Count one of the indictment alleges the fol- 
lowing facts among others: Petitioners are the 
third largest manufacturers, processors, whole- 
salers, and retail distributors of food and food 
products in the United States (R. 11). In addi- 
tion to numerous manufacturing and processing 
plants (R. 11-13), they own and operate twenty- 
five wholesale warehouses and 3,422 retail food 
stores (R. 10-11). These warehouses and stores 
are located in the states of Arkansas, Georgia, 
Illinois, Lowa, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Min- 
nesota, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, 


4 


Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Virginia, West Vir- 
ginia, Pennsylvania, Kansas and Wisconsin (R. 10- 
11). Petitioners also purchase from other pro- 
ducers, canners, and manufacturers large quanti- 
ties of food and food products (R. 13-14). They 
distribute food and food products not only to their 
own outlets but also sell to other food distributors 
(R. 11, 13-14). ; 

The food and food products which petitioners 
manufacture or purchase in the various states 
are shipped to warehouses in other states and are 
distributed from these points to their retail stores 
(R. 14). These stores, as well as petitioners’ 
wholesale warehouses, are divided into four geo- 
graphical divisions (R. 10-11). Officers, agents, 
and employees of the headquarters of each of 
these four divisions are responsible for all whole- 
sale and retail operations within the division’s 
geographical limits (R. 10). Petitioners’ retail 
stores requisition the commodities which they need 
from petitioners’ warehouses and the latter in- 
voice commodities so requisitioned at retail prices, 
except that fresh meat is invoiced at wholesale 
prices subject to the requirement that it be sold 
at the mark-up specified by the warehouses (R. 
14). Warehouse officials exercise jurisdiction 
over all books and accounts of petitioners’ retail 
stores, make frequent inventories of store stocks, 
and check cash receipts (R. 14-15). 

By virtue of the horizontal and vertical integra- 
tion of petitioners’ function and business, they 


5 


have and exercise the power to dominate and con- 
trol the production, prices, and distribution of a 
substantial part of the food and food products 
produced, marketed, and consumed in the United 
States (R. 15). 

Count One charges the petitioners with having 
been engaged continuously since on or about Janu- 
ary 1, 1917 to the day of the return of the indict- 
ment in a conspiracy in unreasonable restraint 
of interstate commerce in food and food products, 
and that this conspiracy consisted in a continuing 
agreement and concert of action to do the follow- 
ing (R. 2, 15-16): 

(a) To acquire throughout the United States, 
by merger and otherwise, the businesses of inde- 
pendent retail grocers and local chains (R. 16) ; 

(b) To use their dominant position to injure 
and destroy, in selected areas throughout the 
United States, the competition of independent 
grocers, meat dealers, and small local food chains 
by selling in these areas at lower prices than else- 
where and by entering into agreements with other 
national food chains operating in such areas to 
follow petitioners’ prices (R. 16); 

(c) To prevent competition in selected trade 
areas throughout the United States by combining 
with independent grocers and local and national 
food chains to fix retail prices, by combining with 
food manufacturers to fix and maintain resale 
prices, and by dividing and apportioning the trade 
territories in such areas (R. 16-17); 


ee 


x, 


SE PEELE ONG EA ES 


6 


(d) To obtain discriminatory buying preference 
over competitors by controlling, by numerous de- 
scribed methods, the terms and conditions upon 
which manufacturers and other suppliers of food 
and food products shall sell to petitioners and to 
their competitors (R. 20-22) ; 

(e) To foster false comparisons of their prices 
with those charged by competitors, and false re- 
ports calculated to conceal their activities and to 
perpetuate their dominance and control of the dis- 
tribution of food and food products (R. 18). 

The indictment alleges that the conspiracy 
charged in Count One ‘‘has been entered into and 
carried out in part’? within the district in which 
the indictment was returned, and that within the 
preceding three years petitioners have performed 
within that district many of the acts set forth as 
constituting a part of the conspiracy, and, in par- 
ticular, petitioners have continuously since Sep- 
tember 1, 1939, advertised food and food products 
below cost for the purpose and with the intent of 
injuring and destroying competition of independ- 
ent concerns and local chain stores (R. 19). 

Count Two reaffirms and incorporates all the 
factual allegations of count one (R. 19). It 
charges a conspiracy to monopolize a substantial 
part of interstate commerce in food and food prod- 
ucts and that this conspiracy has consisted in a 
continuing agreement and concert of action to do 
certain things, which are set forth in the same 


7 


terms as those which are described as having been 
part and parcel of the conspiracy charged in count 
One (R. 20-22). The allegations in support of the 
jurisdiction of the district court are in the same 
words as the corresponding allegations of count 
One (R. 23). 

The district court sustained petitioners’ de- 
murrer upon the grounds that each count of the 
indictment was too vague and indefinite, that each 
count was duplicitous, and that neither eount con- 
tained an allegation of an illegal act by the de- 
fendants within the jurisdiction of the court (R. 
34-39). On January 17, 1944, the Cireuit Court 
of Appeals reversed the judgment of the district 
court (R. 57-58), with District Judge Vaught dis- 
senting on the ground that the indictment lacked 
the requisite particularity (R. 58, 112-114). Pe- 
titioners applied for a rehearing (R. 61-87) which 
Was granted (R. 88). The case was reargued be- 
fore all of the judges of the Cireuit Court of Ap- 
peals for the Tenth Cireuit (R. 88-89, 124-125). 
The judgment of the distriet court was again re- 
versed (R. 124-125), with Judge Phillips dissent- 
ing upon the single ground that the indictment 
Was too vague and indefinite (R. 107-110), 


ARGUMENT 


The indictment in this ease is substantially iden- 
tical with that in Safeway Stores, Inc. v. United 
States, now pending on certiorari, No. 481; both 


a ae 


pone 


SP Tuan Pe eh 


8 


eases were decided by the court below in the same 
opinion.’ 

1. The contention as to the indefiniteness of the 
indictment is the same as that presented by the 
petition in No. 481, and the Court is respectfully 
referred to the Government’s brief in opposition 
in that case for a discussion of the question.” In 
addition to arguing that the indictment is too 
general, petitioners attempt to ereate another 
issue. They contend that there is also presented 
the question of whether an indictment, lacking the 
particularity required by the Fifth and Sixth 
Amendments, is invulnerable to demurrer and 
subject only to a motion for a bill of particulars 
(Pet. 5, 6-11, 20-25). This contention is predi- 
cated upon the unfounded assertion that the court 
below believed the indictment defective but, mis- 
construing the opinion of this Court in Glasser V. 
United States, 315 U. 8.60, reversed the judg- 
ment of the district court on the ground that the 
remedy was to apply for a bill of particulars 
(ibid.). However, that part of the opinion deal- 
ing with the question of the definiteness of the in- 


''The opinion covered also a third case, Frankfort Dis- 
tilleries vy. United States, which was decided against the 
United States on an entirely different ground, going to the 
merits, and which is now before this Court on the Govern- 
ment’s petition for certiorari (Nos. 523-30, this Term). 

? The brief in opposition in No. 481 (pp. 10-11) also argues 
that review should not be granted in the present posture of 
that case. This argument is equally applicable to the present 
petition. 


PUA eh ee ene ¥ % ae y ore ba a3 gL AAO alr} A} Se, 
EEE RF RH Pee apoE POTS RIT PRIM, ROSEANNE LE Ber: 
e os iar, 7, Pq 


9 


dictment read in its entirety clearly reveals that 
the court believed the allegations sufficiently spe- 
cific to fulfill constitutional requirements, and cor- 
rectly citing the Glasser case,’ stated that further 
details should be sought by a motion for a bill of 
particulars (R. 97-102). 

2. Petitioners do not contend that the holding 
below with respect to the allegations of jurisdic- 
tion and venue is in confliet with any decision 
of this Court or of another cireuit court of ap- 
peals. The question presented is simply whether 
the court below properly applied established 
principles. ‘The court below followed and relied 
upon the decision in United States v. New York 
Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company, 137 F. 


* Petitioners imply, in part by an ambiguous statement of 
facts not contained in the opinion, that the decision on this 
point in the Glasser case is confined to allegations of overt 
acts in indictments charging conspiracies under Section 37 of 
the Criminal Code (Pet. 22-24). An examination of the 
record and briefs in that case demonstrates that the impli- 
cation is incorrect. Only count two, not count one, of the in- 
dictment in that case was before the Court. 315 U.S. at p. 
63. It was contended in this Court that the allegations of the 
charging paragraph, either standing alone or amplified by 
the allegations in the paragraphs describing the “manner 
and means” by which the conspiracy was to be effected, were 
too vague and indefinite. It was not claimed that the allega- 
tions of the acts actually done “to effect the objects and pur- 
poses” of the conspiracy and which were set forth under the 
caption “Overt Acts” were defective. Record in Nos, 30-32, 
IM1 Term, 28-37; Brief for the Petitioner, Glasser, 27-30, 
Kretzke, 24-33, and Roth, 59-65. 


10 


(2d) 459 (C.C. A.5) (R. 101-102). Both decisions 
apply the same principles to almost identical allega- 
tions‘ and arrive at the same conclusion. The 
question was raised in the petition for certiorari 
in that case, which was denied. 320 U. S. 783. 
The application of these principles to the instant 
indictment is not of general importance. 

The decision of the court below is clearly cor- 
rect. There are positive allegations in each count 
that the conspiracy was ‘‘formed’’ and that it 
was “entered into” in part within the District 
of Kansas (R. 16, 19, 20, 23). A conspiracy un- 
der the Sherman Act is complete when it is 
formed and does not require either allegation or 
proof of an overt act in furtherance thereof, and 
the offense is committed and therefore may be 
tried in any district in which the conspiracy was 
formed as well as in any district where it has 
been earried out. Nash v. United States, 229 U. 
S. 373, 378; United States v. Trenton Potteries 
Co., 273 U. S. 392, 402-403; United States v. 
Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U.S. 150, 252. 

The indictment further explicitly alleges im 
each count that the conspiracy was ‘‘carried out’’ 
in part within the district of indictment (R. 16, 
19, 20, 23). This is supplemented by the allega- 


‘Comparison of the two indictments demonstrates that 

titioners’ attempt to distinguish them (Pet. 25-26) is 
specious. 

° See petition for certiorari in No. 397, 1943 Term, 8-9, 
25-29. 


1] 


_ tion that petitioners have performed in such dis- 
triet many of the acts the commission of which is 
charged as being a part of petitioners’ conspiracy 
(R. 19, 23). Moreover, there is specification of 
particular overt acts performed within the dis- 
triet of indictment, namely advertising food and 
food products below cost for the purpose and with 
the intent of injuring and destroying the competi- 
tion of independent concerns and local chain 
stores (R. 19, 23). If petitioners, in order ade- 
quately to prepare their defense, require further 
particulars, this is the function of a bill of 


particulars. 
CONCLUSION 


It is respectfully submitted that the petition 
for a writ of certiorari should be denied. 
CHARLES Fauy, 
Solicitor General. 
WENDELL Bence, 
Assistant Attorney General. 
Hersert Borkanp, 
Special Assistant to the Attorney General. 
Ocroper 1944. 


U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1944 


No. 557 


IN THE 


Supreme Court of the United States 


OCTOBER TERM, 1944 


THE KROGER GROCERY & BAKING COMPANY 
ET AL., 
Petitioners, 
v. 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 
Respondent. 


ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE 
UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE TENTH CIRCUIT 


REPLY BRIEF FOR PETITIONERS 


The opposing briet (p. 2) attempts to avoid the consti- 
tutional questions presented by an obvious over-simplifica- 
tion of the issues. This is accomplished by ignoring in the 
restatement of the questions involved the omission of any 
allegation pertaining to time, place, circumstance or act, 
in an indictment which covers twenty-six vears, the entire 
United States and all food for humans, livestock and 
poultry. 

The **Questions’’ as set forth in the opposing brief 
would apply to every indictment, namely: Is it definite? 


ae 


2 


Does it allege jurisdiction? The true questions at bar go 
to an attempt to breach the bulwarks of human liberty and 
to make constitutional guarantees depend on discretionary 
Bills of Particulars. The real questions presented are well 
understood by the Government and are thus stated in the 
opposing brief (p. 8): 


‘< there is also presented the question of whether an 
indictment, lacking the particularity required by the 
Fifth and Sixth Amendments, is invulnerable to de- 
murrer and subject only to a motion for a bill of par- 
ticulars.’’ (Pet. 5, 6-11, 20-25.) (Italics ours.) 


And in the opposing brief (p. 11) the Government proves 
that these are the questions by concluding: 


‘If petitioners, in order adequately to prepare their 
defense, require further particulars, this is the fune- 
tion of a Bill of Particulars.”’ (Italics ours.) 


We contend that when the liberty of individual defend- 
ants is imperiled by indictment, the indictment must, under 
our Bill of Rights, contain at least enough information to 
enable such defendants ‘‘adequately to prepare their de- 
fense.’’ Nor do these constitutional questions raise mere 
‘issues of pleading’? which may cause defendants ‘*in- 
convenience’? (opp. brief p. 10). This argument is an- 
swered by the words of this court in the Glasser case, 
quoted in the Petition (p. 71). If indictments of like scope 
in time, area and generality, are upheld, defendants will 
be nut to a burden which Judge Phillips described as ‘‘be- 
yond human comprehension.’? They must attend—hun- 
dreds of miles from their homes and their business—and 
remain through a trial which will obviously last for many 
months, at which trial they will learn for the first time 
the information without foreknowledge of which they can- 
not ‘‘adequately prepare their defense.’’ 


9 
o 


The opposing brief suggests that only at that ‘‘posture”’ 
of the case and after such protracted trial may this court 
consider whether defendants should have been tried at all 
or whether the trial should have been held in Kansas. We 
urge that the exceptional situation here presented and the 
vast scope of the indictment, necessitating a trial extend- 
ing for months with the practical disruption of the third 
most important food business in America due to its man- 
agement’s absence more than a thousand miles from its 
office, demonstrates that review is required now! 

Further, the fact that such lengthy trials in this and 
in other similar situations would, under the Government’s 
contention, have to be completed before the questions at 
bar could be reviewed, shows the urgency and necessity of 
a review now for the guidance of the courts below, the 
District Attorney and Grand Juries considering similar 
indictments. 

The fact that there are pending at the present time sev- 
eral indictments similarly defective, in which the Govern- 
ment claims that reliance should be had on a Bill of Par- 
ticulars to supply constitutional defects in the indictments, 
further indicates that the questions are of general im- 
portance. 

In the petition (pp. 25-26) we pointed out that the in- 
dictment in United States vy. New York Great Atlantic : 
Pacific Tea Company, 137 F. (2d) 459 (C. C. A. 5), was 
specific as to certain definite times—definite places—and 
definitely identified foods. To say this fundamental differ- 
ence between the 4. @ P. case and this case is ‘‘specious”’ 
(opp. brief, p. 10) is no answer.* 

In the petition (pp. 22-24) we pointed out the error of the 
court below in misapplying the Glasser case. The oppos- 


*The A. & P. indictment under IV, par. 14, covers specifically “coffee.” 
Also par. 23, sub. par. ¢ (10); V, par. 23c (7) and (8), cover entire crops 
of fresh fruits, vegetables and —_— Also par. 23c (9); V, par. 23a, sub. 
par. (2), covers price wars. Par. 23(b)/c) relates to brokerage; (f) to 
produce. VII, par. 26, relates to meat. 


DSLR 


EHP BERRIES IES 


SEALS AREAS I ET ET BRS NEN MO ce he TEN OR 


4 


ing brief (p. 9) states that only Count Two, not Count One, 
of the indictment in that case was before the court. (315 
U. S. 63.) This statement is correct but the fifty overt acts 
set out in Count One of the Glasser indictment (pp. 25-32, 
inel.) are incorporated by reference into Count Two on 
page 56 of the indictment. Glasser did not contend that 
the indictment as a whole was indefinite—only that the 
‘manner and means of effecting the object’’ of the con- 
spiracy set forth in paragraphs 15 to 39 of the Glasser in- 
dictment were lacking in detail to inform him so he could 
prepare his defense. The language of this court with ref- 
erence to a Bill of Particulars was limited to this con- 
tention. 

The indictment in the present case as a whole is fatally 
defective for failure to identify any time, any place, any 
circumstance and any identifiable fact or act attributed to 
petitioners. For example, read the summary (pp. 5, 6) in 
the opposing brief. This summary is not of alleged “*acts”’ 
but of alleged ‘‘terms’’ of the conspiracy. Read para- 
graphs ‘‘a’’ to ‘‘e’’ and ask as the alleged ‘‘terms’”’ hav- 
ing to do with ‘‘competitors,”’ ‘‘suppliers,”’ ‘‘local areas,”’ 
ete., are read—Where? When? Who? What? The answer is 
a blank! When we remember that there are hundreds of 
thousands of ‘‘independent retail grocers’’ of ‘‘competi- 
tors’’ of ‘‘local areas’’ of ‘‘retail’’ prices, of ‘‘suppliers’’ 
and of ‘‘food products,’’ the impossibility of preparing a 
defense or in case of acquittal or conviction, pleading it in 
Bar is self-evident! 

Finally, as to venue, the claim that this indictment fairly 
charges that the conspiracy was ‘‘formed’’ in Kansas is 
too tenuous to consider seriously. The defendants have 
never been in Kansas. The indictment does allege that 
the conspiracy was formed somewhere in the United States 
and concludes that it was ‘‘carried out in part’? in Kansas. 
This conclusion standing alone can not support jurisdic- 


. : 2 GNONL, AIOE wea OES mE DARL AS c APA 
Diieione ORTH ESRLAOC AR IRONS I ag REX PPEE HOS on BOSON APARNA RE IA FRA 


tion for two reasons: first, to support jurisdiction in a 
district ‘‘outside the state and district wherein the crime 
shall have been committed,’’ it must be alleged that some 
overt ‘act’? was done pursuant to the criminal conspiracy 
in such District, and, second, in view of the period of 26 
years alleged as the period, it must further be alleged that 
such ‘tovert’’ act was done within three years in order 
to come within the Statute of Limitations. To charge that 
‘‘many’’ of the ‘‘acts’’ alleged in the indictment were done 
in Kansas, is to charge nothing, because no ‘‘acts’’ pur- 
suant to the ‘‘conspiracy’’ are anywhere alleged in the 
indictment. For a description of the ‘‘acts’—many of 
which are alleged to have been done in Kansas—the Venue 
Section of the indictment (III) refers back to paragraph 26 
of the indictment. When we examine paragraph 26 we find 
that it refers exclusively to the ‘‘terms’’ of the conspiracy 
and no ‘‘act’’ of any kind is alleged. Paragraph 29 par- 
ticularizes (?) that Kroger ‘‘advertised’’ food products 
below cost, ete., but this charge as to advertising relates 
to something that is not even alleged as one of the terms 
of the conspiracy. In contradistinction, the indictment 
against The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company alleged 
that advertisement and sale of ‘‘meat’’ below cost with 
intent to injure ‘‘independent meat dealers’’ in Dallas, was 
an overt act in pursuance of the conspiracy. The Kroger 
indictment merely generalizes as to unidentified ‘‘food and 
food products’? being sold lower in Kansas than unidenti- 
fied ‘‘similar’’ products were sold in unnamed ‘‘other 
locations.’’ What ‘‘products’’? What ‘‘other locations’’? 
When? Where? No clue to the answer is contained in this 
indictment. Thus, an attempt is made to try defendants 
in the district and jurisdiction farthest removed from the 
presumed place (for none is alleged) where the conspiracy 
was formed (Cincinnati) without alleging a single overt 
act within the ‘‘terms’’ of the conspiracy, either in Kansas 


BEDE es | 


wey 


= 
A 
e 
é 
; 
3 
< 
& 
¥ 
: 


7 


or within the three year period of the Statute of Limita- 
tions. 

We agree that the defendants may be tried in any dis- 
trict in which the conspiracy is formed, provided that the 
crime was committed within three years—but we deny that 
the indictment charges formation of the ‘‘conspiracy’’ in 
Kansas. We also agree that trial may be had in any dis- 
trict in which it was ‘‘carried out’? but we deny that where 
a conspiracy between defendants was formed and the 
crime ‘completed’? in Cincinnati defendants can be tried 
in Kansas without ‘‘either allegation or proof of an overt 
act in furtherance thereof’’ in Kansas as the opposing brief 
claims (p. 10). 

The charge as to ‘‘advertising’’ is not only a departure 
from the conspiracy alleged but is so vague and indefinite 
that defendants cannot adequately prepare any defense 
thereto. 


6 


CONCLUSION 


Two issues not heretofore determined by this Court are 
here squarely and timely presented. 

1. Is an indictment which is constitutionally defective 
invulnerable to demurrer because the District Attorney 
can be required, if the Court in its discretion so orders, 
to supply information not found by the Grand Jury and 
without which defendants cannot adequately prepare their 
defense or avail themselves of the Constitutional immunity 
from double jeopardy? 

2. Can defendants be tried in a district remote from 
the district and state where the conspiracy was formulated 
and the crime thus ‘‘completed’’ without alleging with 
required definiteness some overt act in said jurisdiction 
pursuant to the conspiracy within the statutory period of 
limitation? 


7 


These questions, we submit, are of paramount impor- 
tance and of general concern. They should be answered 
before trial, not thereafter. 


Respectfully submitted, 


Frank EK. Woon, 
Rosert S. Marx, 
Tomas M. Litxarp, 


Attorneys for Petitioners. 


Nicos, Woop, Marx & Ginter, 
Lituarp, Erpson, Lewis & Porrer, 


Of Counsel. 


