United  Stales  General  Accountinj?  Offic#  '  '' 


November  1990 


SECONDARY 
MORTGAGE  MARKET 


Information  on 
.Underwriting  and  Home 
Loans  in  the  Atlanta  Area 


GAO/RCFD-91-2 


GAO 


United  States 

General  Accounting  Office 

Washington,  D.C.  20548 


Resources,  Community,  and 
Economic  Development  Division 

B-239564 

November  28, 1990 

The  Honorable  Alan  J.  Dixon.  Chairman 
The  Honorable  Christopher  S.  Bond.  Ranking  Minority  Member 
Subcommittee  on  Consumer  and  Regulatory'  Affairs 
Committee  on  Banking,  Housing, 
and  Urban  Affairs 
United  States  Senate 


-.'-•rr'.D  ^ 


Your  June  22, 1989,  letter  asked  us  to  examine  various  aspects  of  home 
mortgage  lending.  Specifically,  you  asked  us  to  examine  whether  ( 1 ) 
underw'riting  criteria  of  secondary  market  institutions  and  private  mort¬ 
gage  insurers  contribute  to  racial  discrimination  and  (2)  statistical  evi¬ 
dence  of  discrimination  exists  in  the  Atlanta,  Georgia,  area  by  home 
mortgage  lenders  that  are  not  depository  institutions. 


As  you  know,  by  purchasing  home  loans,  the  secondary  mortgage 
market  agencies  spread  financial  risk  and  provide  liquidity  to  primary' 
lenders,  thereby  making  additional  credit  available  to  qualified  bor¬ 
rowers.  Nondepository  institutions  include  organizations  such  as  mort¬ 
gage  bankers  as  opposed  to  depository  institutions  such  as  banks, 
savings  and  loans,  and  credit  unions. 

As  discussed  with  your  office,  we  were  unable  to  fully  address  your 
areas  of  concern  because  of  the  absence  of  readily  available  data  on 
lending  activities  of  nondepository  institutions  and  the  extensive  effort 
required  to  gather  and  analyze  such  data  from  original  sources.  Thus, 
we  agreed  to  provide  you  with  information  on  ( 1 )  underw'riting  guide¬ 
lines  established  by  certain  secondary  mortgage  market  agencies  to  help 
them  determine  whether  they  should  purchase,  insure,  or  guarantee 
single-family  home  loans  made  by  lenders  and  (2)  statistical  data  on 
such  loan  activity  by  these  agencies  in  the  Atlanta,  Georgia,  metropol¬ 
itan  area. 

We  reviewed  and  summarized  underwriting  guidelines  and  loan  activity 
data  of  the  Federal  National  Mortgage  Association  (Fannie  Mae)  and  the 
Federal  Home  Loan  Mortgage  Corporation  (Freddie  Mac),  which 
together  market  most  of  the  dollar  value  of  mortgages  sold  in  the  sec¬ 
ondary  market.  The  Government  National  Mortgage  Association  (Ginnie 
Mae)  also  is  a  secondary  market  organization  that  guarantees  securities 
backed  by  mortgage  loans  insured  by  the  Department  of  Housing  and 
Urban  Development  (hud)  or  guaranteed  by  the  Department  of  Veterans 
Affairs  (va).  Ginnie  Mae  has  no  underwriting  guidelines  of  its  own  nor 

9  3  lO  6  014 

G ^0  /lirFT)  «f  -2  ‘WonHury  Mm-tgagr  Mark«-t 


Page  1 


a^239564 


Results  in  Brief 


does  it  have  an  automated  system  for  identifying  tiie  details  of  the  indi¬ 
vidual  turn  or  va  loans  that  it  handles.  Therefore,  we  also  summarized 
iiUD’s  and  \a’s  loan  approval  guidelines  and  loan  activity  data  to 
represent  Ginnie  Mae. 

The  statistical  data  for  Fannie  Mae,  F'reddie  Mac,  and  m  b  represent  the 
number  and  value  of  single-family  home  mortgage  loans  that  thes(‘  orga¬ 
nizations  purchased  or  insured  within  80  residential  zip  code  areas  in  a 
five-county  metropolitan  Atlanta  area  during  the  {)eriod  July  I,  1987, 
through  June  30,  1989.  Unlike  P'annie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  in  o.  va 
could  not  provide  us  with  loan  data  at  the  zip  code  level.  Therefon*.  we 
summarized  the  va  data  separately  by  county,  the  only  level  of  data 
available  to  us.  Thus,  the  va  loan  activity  data  represent  the  number  and 
value  of  VA-guaranteed  loans  in  the  five  metropolitan  Atlanta  counties. 

The  loan  activity  cata  provide  information  on  the  extent  and  kKration  of 
secondary  market  loan  activity  in  the  metropolitan  Atlanta  area.  How¬ 
ever,  these  data  shr  uld  not  be  used  to  derive  conclusions  on  discrimina¬ 
tion  in  secondary  market  loan  activity  because  data  limitations 
prevented  us  from  determining  the  reasons  for  the  variations  in  the 
activity  among  zip  code  areas.  A  key  limitation  in  the  data  is  that  it 
would  be  very  difficult  to  determine  the  demand  for  loans — a  primary 
factor  in  determining  whether  credit  needs  for  housing  have  been  met 
and  a  potentially  significant  reason  for  differences  in  loan  activity 
among  zip  code  areas — because  such  data  are  not  regularly  maintained 
by  lenders.'  Other  limitations  include  the  use  of  multiple  sources  of  dar.a 
that  we  could  not  verify  for  accuracy,  the  absence  of  comparable 
housing  markets  within  zip  code  areas,  and  the  lack  of  information  on 
the  race  of  the  actual  buyer.  (See  app.  1  for  details  on  data  limitations.  ) 


Fannie  Mae  and  Freddie  Mac  provide  similar  guidance  to  lenders  from 
whom  they  purchase  mortgages.  Each  agency  .sets  out  its  .standards  in  a 
Seller/Servicer  Guide  provided  to  lenders  to  assist  them  in  making 
acceptable  loans.  While  Ginnie  Mae  does  not  have  any  underwriting 
guidelines,  it  relies  on  the  nui>  and  VA-established  guideline.s  that  lenders 
use  to  determine  which  mortgages  qualify  for  in  n  insurance  or  a  va 
guarantee. 


'The  Financial  Instit,ut.i<>n.s  Reform,  Rp<'overv,  and  Enforcement  Act  of  IftSftdhihlic  i.aw  101-7;!), 
Augn.st  9,  19S9,  now  requires  lenders  to  retain  information  on  loan  applications,  loans  act\ia!ly  made 
anti  loam  purcha'K'd  .starling  on  .January  1,  1.990, 


Page  2 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


B-239564 


All  four  agencies  (Fannie  Mae.  Freddie  Mac,  ii! d,  and  va)  require  that  in 
determining  which  loans  to  approve  lenders  consider  a  potential  bor¬ 
rower’s  ability  and  willingness  to  repay  the  debt  and  the  property’s 
value.  The  agencies  suggest  that  lenders  consider  factors  such  as  the 
borrower’s  housing  expense-to-income  ratio  and  track  record  in  fulfilling 
previous  debts.  Property  appraisals  are  required  to  ensure  tiiat  the 
property’s  market  value  is  sufficient  to  provide  adcxjuate  collateral  for 
the  mortgage  loan. 

During  the  2-year  period  from  July  1 ,  1987,  through  June  30,  1989, 
Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac.  hi’D,  and  va  purcha.sed,  insured,  or  guaranteed 
63,586  home  loans  in  the  metropolitan  Atlanta  area  that  we  studied.  Of 
the  57,227  loans  purchased  or  insured  by  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and 
HUD,  87  percent  were  for  properties  located  in  predominately  white 
(defined  as  the  range  from  61-100  percent  white)  zip  code  areas.  About 
83  percent  of  these  loans  were  for  properties  in  zip  code  areas  having 
average  annual  incomes  of  $35,000-$74,999.  Median  home  prices  were 
also  highest  in  the  predominately  white,  higher  income  areas.  Of  the 
6,359  VA-guaranteed  loans,  53  percent  went  to  white  individuals  and  47 
percent  went  to  minority  individuals. 


Background 


A  secondary  mortgage  market  buys  and  sells  mortgage  loans  or  securi¬ 
ties  backed  by  mortgage  loans.  The  secondary  market  agencies  are  not 
primary  lenders  tnd  have  no  direct  contact  with  borrowers.  The  agen¬ 
cies  do  not  originate  mortgage  loans;  rather,  they  purchase  loans  from 
lenders  or  guarantee  securities  based  on  the  loans. 

Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  Ginnie  Mae  were  created  by  the  Congress 
for  the  purpose  of  sponsoring  a  secondary  market  for  mortgages. 
Although  under  federal  charter,  Fannie  Mae  and  Freddie  Mac  are  pri¬ 
vate  corporations.  However,  Ginnie  Mae  is  a  United  States  government 
corporation.  From  1987  through  the  first  half  of  1989,  the  three  agen¬ 
cies  accounted  for  57  percent  of  the  total  dollar  volume  of  secondary 
mortgage  market  loan  purchase  activity.- 

Fannie  Mae  and  Freddie  Mac  together  market  most  of  the  dollar  value  of 
conventional  mortgages  in  the  secondary  market.  They  mainly  purchase 
conventional  mortgages  from  lenders  such  as  mortgage  banking  compa¬ 
nies,  thrifts,  commercial  banks,  and  others.  The  mortgages  are  packaged 


^Thp  source  of  these  data,  HUD.  includes  Ginnie  Mae’s  issuance  of  securities  in  the  loan  purcha.se 
data.  However,  technically,  Ginnie  Mae  does  not  purchase  mortga^ies. 


Pages 


GAO/Rt.iiD-9i-2  Secondary  Mortgage  ..uirket 


B-239564 


Underwriting 

Guidelines 


into  securities  and  are  sold  to  investors.  The  sale  of  such  loans  and  secu¬ 
rities  returns  funds  to  the  institution  originating  the  loan,  creating 
liquidity  and  allowing  the  originator  to  make  additional  loans  or  other¬ 
wise  reuse  the  funds. 

Ginnie  Mae  is  the  secondary  market  organization  that  guarantees  securi¬ 
ties  backed  by  HUD-insured  and  VA-guaranteed  home  loans.  Ginnie  Mae 
does  not  purchase  mortgage  loans  but  guarantees  the  timely  payment  of 
principal  and  interest  for  privately  issued  securities.  Ginnie  Mae- 
approved  banks,  mortgage  lenders,  and  other  institutions  issue  securi¬ 
ties  based  on  pools  of  HUE>-insured  and  VA-guaranteed  loans.  Through  the 
Ginnie  Mae  guarantee,  these  securities  are  backed  by  the  full  faith  and 
credit  of  the  United  States.  In  the  event  the  issuer  defaults  on  the  securi¬ 
ties,  Ginnie  Mae  takes  over  principal  and  interest  payments  to  the 
investor. 

Underwriting  is  the  process  of  identifying  potential  risks  associated 
with  financial  instruments  and  developing  guidelines  to  assess  the 
expected  costs  of  covering  those  risks.  Underwriting  standards  indi¬ 
rectly  establish  the  qualifications  that  loans  to  individual  borrowers 
must  meet  to  be  eligible  for  delivery  to  the  secondary  mortgage  market. 
Lenders  use  the  underwriting  process  to  determine  whether  they  will 
make  individual  loans  or  whether  the  loans  will  be  held  in  their  portfo¬ 
lios  or  later  sold  in  a  secondary  market. 


The  underwriting  guidelines  for  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  hud,  and  \’a 
are  built  around  certain  risk  assessments.  The  risk  assessments — which 
lenders  also  consider  in  analyzing  the  degree  of  risk  associated  with 
making  a  home  mortgage  loan — include  the  following: 

•  The  borrower’s  ability  to  repay  the  debt. 

•  The  borrower’s  willingness  to  repay  the  debt. 

•  The  sufficiency  of  the  property  to  secure  the  mortgage. 

To  make  the  first  two  assessments,  undemriting  guidelines  address  fac¬ 
tors  such  as  past  credit  history,  current  and  projected  income,  and 
expenses.  This  information  is  used  in  making  the  lending  decision.  When 
a  lender  decides  to  make  a  loan,  it  sets  loan  terms,  including  an  interest 
rate,  collateral  values,  and  other  conditions  consistent  with  the  risks 
involved  in  the  loan.  Therefore,  an  individual  with  a  good  credit  rating 
and  sufficient  collateral  may  receive  more  favorable  terms  than  a  bor¬ 
rower  with  a  delinquent  payment  history  or  limited  financial  resources. 


Page  4 


GAO/RCE^91-2  Secondary  Mortga^  Market 


B-239564 


In  making  the  third  assessment,  lenders  rely  on  property  appraisals  to 
assess  the  sufficiency  of  the  property  to  secure  the  mortgage. 


Loan  Activity  in 
Atlanta 


I 


In  the  80  Atlanta  zip  c(xie  areas  we  studied,  Fannie  Mae  and  Freddie  Mac 
purchased  45,700  mortgage  loans,  and  hud  insured  1 1 ,527  mortgage 
loans  during  the  2-year  period  ending  June  30, 1989.  In  the  five-county, 
Atlanta  metropolitan  area,  va  guaranteed  6,359  loans  during  the  same 
period. 

The  number  of  homeowners  in  various  income  and  race  population  clas¬ 
sifications  differed  substantially  in  most  cases.  Therefore,  we  generally 
presented  loan  activity  data  for  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  hud  in 
terms  of  the  number  of  loans  per  100  homeowners  in  an  income  or  race 
category. 

Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  hud  purchased  or  insured  almost  twice  as 
many  home  mortgage  loans  per  100  homeowners  in  predominately  white 
(61-100  percent  white)  areas  as  in  the  predominately  minority  (defined 
as  the  range  from  0-40  percent  white)  areas.  In  the  areas  with  61  per¬ 
cent  to  100  percent  white  population,  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  hud 
purchased  or  insured  13.9  loans  per  100  homeowners.  In  areas  with  61 
percent  to  100  percent  minority  population,  the  agencies'  loan  activity 
was  7.0  loans  per  100  homeowners. 

Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  hud  purchased  or  insured  the  greatest 
number  of  loans  per  100  homeowners  in  zip  code  areas  with  higher 
income  levels.  Loan  activity  per  100  homeowners  was  1.8  times  as  great 
in  areas  with  average  income  levels  of  $35,000  to  $74,999  as  it  was  in 
areas  with  average  income  levels  of  $7,500  to  $34,999. 

Home  prices  were  generally  higher  in  predominately  white  and  higher 
income  areas.  For  example,  in  predominately  minority  (0-20  percent 
white)  areas,  the  median  home  price  was  about  $56,000,  and  in  the  pre¬ 
dominately  white  (81-100  percent  white)  areas,  the  median  home  price 
was  $101,000.  The  median  home  price  ranged  from  $53,000  in  the  lower 
income  ($7,500-$24,999)  areas  to  $  146,000  in  the  higher  income 
($50,000-$74,999)  areas. 

VA  does  not  include  zip  codes  in  its  loan  guarantee  data  base;  however,  it 
did  provide  us  with  data  on  a  county  level,  by  race.  For  the  five-county 
area,  53  percent  of  the  loans  va  guaranteed  were  for  white  individuals 
and  47  percent  were  for  minorities.  In  terms  of  dollar  values,  55  percent 


Page  5 


6AO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Moitga^  Market 


B-239564 


went  to  white  individuals  and  45  percent  to  minorities.  We  have  summa¬ 
rized  the  VA  data  separately  in  appendix  ill  of  this  repent. 


Agency  Comments 


We  received  written  comments  on  a  draft  of  this  report  from  Freddie 
Mac  and  Fannie  Mae  within  the  30  calendar-day  limit  specified  by  law 
(see  app.  IV  and  V).  We  also  received  oral  comments  from  tti'D  and  va 
officials. 

Subsequently,  we  received  written  comments  on  a  draft  of  this  report 
from  HUD.  The  comments  were  received  too  late  for  us  to  present  and 
evaluate  without  delaying  the  report’s  issuance;  therefore,  they  have 
not  been  reproduced  in  the  report.  However,  copies  of  hud's  comments 
will  be  provided  to  the  requesters.  The  essence  of  fiUD’s  comments  are 
discussed  below. 

HUD  stressed  the  importance  of  ensuring  that  the  loan  activity  data  not 
be  misinterpreted.  We  agree.  In  fact,  concern  that  the  data  could  be  mis¬ 
interpreted  is  one  of  the  reasons  we  have  caveated  these  data  and 
pointed  out  that  these  caveats  preclude  reaching  conclusions  on  discrim¬ 
ination  in  the  secondary  mortgage  market. 

HUD  also  said  that  the  discussion  on  its  performance  in  the  various  zip 
code  areas  of  Atlanta  should  be  presented  separately  from  the  discus¬ 
sion  on  Freddie  Mac’s  and  Fannie  Mae’s  performance,  hud  believes  that 
because  it  has  a  much  lower  maximum  loan  amount  than  those  agencies, 
a  very  different  geographic  pattern  may  emerge  for  its  loan  activity 
data  than  the  pattern  resulting  from  combining  its  data  with  those  of 
Freddie  Mac  and  Fannie  Mae.  Our  report  combines  the  loan  activity  data 
of  Freddie  Mac,  Fannie  Mae,  and  hud  because  of  the  confidential  nature 
of  the  data  Freddie  Mac  and  Fannie  Mae  provided  to  us. 

Freddie  Mac  acknowledged  that  it  had  leadership  responsibilities  in  sup¬ 
port  of  affordable  housing  opportunities  and  against  discriminatory 
lending  practices.  It  also  said  that  our  report  correctly  points  out  that  its 
guidelines  will  not  permit  the  consideration  of  race  of  a  borrower  in  any 
aspect  of  the  loan  underwriting  process.  Also,  according  to  Freddie  Mac, 
the  information  contained  in  our  report  which  shows  that  the  number  of 
loans  purchased  by  Freddie  Mac  per  100  homeowners  increases  with  the 
percent  of  whites  within  an  area’s  population  “is  consistent  with  the 
well-documented  pattern  of  discrimination  reported  in  the  Atlanta  Con¬ 
stitution’s  ‘The  Color  of  Money’  series.”  This  result,  according  to  Freddie 
Mac,  is  to  be  expected  since  the  mortgage  loans  it  purchases  from 


Page  6 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


B-2395^ 


lending  institutions  would  reflect  the  mortgage  loans  originated  by  those 
lending  institutions  that  are  making  such  loans  directly  to  borrowers. 

Fannie  Mae  said  that  the  major  finding  of  our  report,  that  .secondary 
market  purchasing  activity  declines  with  decreasing  neighborhor)d 
income  or  increasing  neighborhood  minority  comprjsition,  warrants  con¬ 
cern  from  ail  sectors  of  the  mortgage  finance  industry'.  It  also  said  that 
while  our  report  raises  serious  questions  and  concerns,  it  is  important 
that  our  findings  be  placed  in  the  proper  perspective  given  the  data  limi¬ 
tations  described  in  our  report.  In  this  regard,  Fannie  Mae  reiterated 
some  of  the  limitations  in  the  loan  activity  data  described  in  appendix  I 
and  how  these  limitations  preclude  any  inferences  concerning  the  causes 
of  the  observed  purchasing  patterns. 

Freddie  Mac  and  Fannie  Mae  also  stressed  their  commitment  to  ensure 
that  all  potential  homebuyers  have  equal  access  to  credit.  Freddie  Mac 
pointed  out  that  its  recently  created  Affordable  Housing  Initiatives 
Department  will  help  it  and  the  industry  design  homeownership  and 
rental  programs  to  address  this  issue.  Fannie  Mae  pointed  out  that  it  had 
a  long-standing  conunitment  to  the  homebuying  credit  needs  of  low-  and 
moderate-income  households  and  residents  of  inner  city  neighborhoods. 
It  also  said  that  many  of  its  activities  that  particularly  benefit  inner  city 
and  low-income  neighborhoods  are  not  covered  in  this  report,  such  as  its 
purchases  of  multifamily  mortgages  and  mortgage  revenue  bonds. 

A  VA  official  agreed  with  the  factual  information  presented  in  this  report 
on  that  agency. 


This  report  discusses  (1)  the  scope  and  methodology  for  our  review, 
including  data  limitations  that  prevent  us  from  reaching  conclusions 
about  the  causes  of  differences  in  secondary  market  loan  activity  among 
areas  in  metropolitan  Atlanta,  (2)  underwriting  guidelines  established 
by  the  secondary  mortgage  market  agencies,  and  (3)  a  summary  of  the 
secondary  market  loan  activity  in  the  Atlanta  area  by  population  groups 
and  income  levels.  We  performed  our  work  between  July  1989  and  Mav 
1990. 

At  your  request,  we  plan  no  further  distribution  of  this  report  until  30 
days  from  the  date  of  this  letter.  At  that  time,  we  will  send  copies  to  the 
appropriate  congressional  committees,  the  Secretaries  of  m  d  and  va,  the 


Page  7 


GAO/RCEI>-91-2  Secondao’  Mortgage  Market 


B-2395e4 


Chief  Executive  Officers  of  Fannie  Mae  and  Freddie  Mac,  and  tite  I^resi- 
dent  of  Ginnie  Mae.  We  will  also  make  copies  available  to  others  upon 
request. 

If  I  can  be  of  further  assistance  to  you,  please  contact  me  at  (202)  275- 
5525.  Major  contributors  to  this  report  are  listed  in  appendix  VI, 

John  M.  Ols,  Jr. 

Director,  Housing  and 
Community  Development  Issues 


Pages 


GAO/RCEl>91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Contents 


Letter 

1 

Appendix  I 

14 

Scope  and 

Data  Limitations 

16 

Methodology 

Appendix  II 
Underwriting 
Guidelines  Used  by 
Fannie  Mae,  Freddie 
Mac,  HUD,  and  \A 


General  Requirements 

Borrower’s  Ability  to  Repay  the  Debt 

Borrower’s  Willingness  to  Repay  the  Debt 

Sufficiency  of  the  Property  Value  to  Cover  the  Mortgage 


20 

20 

21 

26 

28 


Appendix  III 
Secondary  Market 
Loan  Activity  in  the 
Metropolitan  Atlanta 
Area 


Atlanta  Demographics 

Loan  Activity  by  Population  Group 

Loan  Activity  by  Income  I^evel 

Loan  Activity  by  Income  Level  and  Population  Group 

VA  Loan  Activity 


34 

37 

40 

43 

45 


Appendix  IV 
Comments  From  the 
Federal  Home  Loan 
Mortgage  Corporation 

Appendix  V 
Comments  From  the 
Federal  National 
Mortgage  Association 


Appendix  VI 
Major  Contributors  to 
This  Report 


Page  10 


GAO/RCEI>-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Contents 


Tables  Table  II.  1;  General  Ix)an  Requirements  for  Fannie  Mae, 

Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 

Table  II. 2;  Comparison  of  Income  Ratios  for  Fannie  Mae, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 

Table  11.3:  Residual  Monthly  Incomes  by  Region  for  Loan 
Amounts  of  $69,999  and  Below 
Table  II. 4:  Residual  Monthly  Incomes  by  Region  for  Loan 
Amounts  of  $70,000  and  Above 
Table  III.  1 :  Number  of  ZIP  Codes  by  Population  Group 
Table  III. 2:  Number  of  ZIP  Code§  by  Average  Income 
I^evel 

Table  III.3;  Ixian  Activity  and  Number  of  ZIP  Codes  by 
Population  Group  and  Average  Income  Level 
Table  III.4:  Number  of  VA-Guaraoteed  Loans  for  White 
and  Minority  Individuals  in  Five  Metropolitan 
Atlanta  Counties 

Table  III.5;  Dollar  Value  of  VA-Guaranteed  Loans  for 
White  and  Minority  Individuals  in  Five  Metropolitan 
Atlanta  Counties 


Figures  Figure  III.I :  Percentage  of  Total  Homeowners  by 

Population  Group 

Figure  111.2:  Percentage  of  Homeowners  by  Income  Level 

Figure  III. 3:  Number  of  Loans  per  100  Homeowners  by 
Population  Group 

Figure  III. 4:  Average  and  Median  Loan  Amounts  by 
Population  Group 

Figure  III. 5:  Average  and  Median  Home  Prices  by 
Population  Group 

Figure  III. 6:  Number  of  Loans  per  100  Homeowners  by 
Income  Level 

Figure  III.7:  Average  and  Median  Loan  Amounts  by 
Income  Level 

Figure  III.8:  Average  and  Median  Home  Price  by  Income 
Level 

Figure  III.9:  Number  of  Ix>ans  per  100  Homeowners  by 
Population  Group  and  Income  Level 


21 

23 

23 

24 


oo 


35 


44 

46 

46 


36 

37 

38 

39 

40 

41 

42 

43 
45 


Page  U 


GAO/RCEIK91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Contents 


Abbreviations 

DMis  Donnelley  Marketing  Information  Services 

Fannie  Mae  Federal  National  Mortgage  Association 

Freddie  Mac  Federal  Home  Ix>an  Mortgage  Corporation 

GAO  General  Accounting  Office 

Ginnie  Mae  Government  National  Mortgage  Association 

HUD  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Development 

!TV'  loan-to-vaiue  ratio 

VA  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs 

ZIP  Zone  Improvement  Plan 


Page  12 


GAO/R('ED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Scope  and  Methodology 


We  interviewed  officials  of  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  Ginnie  Mae  at 
their  headquarters  locations,  in  Washington,  D.C.,  and  hud  and  va  offi¬ 
cials  in  their  Atlanta  Regional  Offices  to  identify  the  appropriate  under¬ 
writing  guidelines.  We  obtained  and  reviewed  copies  of  each 
organization’s  underwriting  guidelines  for  home  mortgage  loans. 

To  provide  statistical  data  on  secondary  mortgage  market  activity  in  the 
Atlanta,  Georgia,  metropolitan  area,  our  work  focused  on  the  mortgage 
activities  of  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  hud,  and  va.  We  defined  the 
Atlanta  metropolitan  area  as  the  five  counties  of  Clayton,  Cobb,  Dekalb, 
Fulton,  and  Gwinnett. 

To  provide  insights  on  the  demographic  characteristics  of  each  zip  code 
area,  we  obtained  statistical  data  on  race  and  income  from  the  Donnelley 
Marketing  Information  Services  (DMiS).'  The  demographic  data  are  esti¬ 
mates  of  1989  conditions  based  upon  1980  Census  infonriation  on  popu¬ 
lation  and  household  income.  The  data  included  estimates  of  the  number 
of  individuals  by  race  (white,  black,  and  other)  and  number  of  house¬ 
holds  per  ZIP  code  area,  as  well  as  the  number  of  households  within  spe¬ 
cific  income  categories  for  each  zip  code  area.  This  data  provide  general 
demographic  information,  but  does  not  represent  the  characteristics  of 
specific  borrowers  associated  with  the  agencies’  loan  activity  data  dis¬ 
cussed  in  the  report. 

The  demographic  data  were  compiled  according  to  1989  residential  zip 
code  data  for  the  five  counties.  We  sorted  the  statistical  data  for  Fannie 
Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  hud  on  two  demographic  variables — number  of 
individuals  by  race  and  average  income — for  each  zip  code. 

The  statistical  data  represent  the  number  and  value  of  single-family 
home  mortgage  loans  that  these  organizations  purchased,  insured,  or 
guaranteed  in  80  zip  code  areas  within  the  five-county  metropolitan 
Atlanta  area  during  the  period  July  1,  1987,  through  June  30,  1989. 
Although  the  agencies  identified  more  than  80  zip  codes  in  the  five  coun¬ 
ties,  our  consolidation  of  loan  activity  and  demographic  data  from 
various  sources  resulted  in  80  zip  codes  for  use  in  our  study.  Overall,  our 
study  of  data  for  the  80  zip  code  areas  represents  about  85  percent  of 
both  the  number  and  the  total  dollar  value  of  loan  activity  the  agencies 
reported  to  us. 


’Donnelley  Marketing  Information  Servicea.  a  company  of  the  Dunn  &  Brad.street  Corporation,  pro¬ 
vides  selected  demographic  information  from  the  1980  Ceasus  of  the  United  States,  projected  to 
reflect  current  year  (1989)  estimates.  The  Donnelley  Demographics  data  base  contains  estimates  for 
various  demographic  characteristics  and  is  generally  used  for  market  analysis. 


Page  14 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  I 

Scope  and  Methodology 


We  compiled  the  statistical  data  by  postal  zip  codes  because  that  was  the 
lowest  common  level  that  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  hi  D  could  accu¬ 
mulate  to  provide  the  data.  However,  the  va  data  were  not  available 
below  the  county  level  because  va  does  not  include  zip  codes  in  its  loan 
guarantee  data  base.  Therefore,  the  va  data  are  presented  separately,  by 
county.  Throughout  the  report,  we  rounded  all  percentages  to  the 
nearest  whole  number. 

Unlike  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  hud,  va  included  the  race  of  bor¬ 
rowers  associated  with  loans  guaranteed  in  the  data  provided  to  us. 
However,  according  to  a  va  Program  Analysis  Specialist,  va  could  not 
provide  complete  data  on  borrower  income;  therefore,  we  sorted  the 
data  only  by  race. 

Because  a  large  number  of  renters  in  a  zip  code  area  could  distort  the 
loan  activity  data,  we  adjusted  the  population  of  households  in  each  zip 
code  area  to  reflect  only  the  estimated  number  of  homeowners.  For  each 
ZIP  code,  this  adjustment  was  the  estimated  number  of  households  in 
1989  less  the  percentage  of  renters  from  the  1980  Census  data. 

Generally,  we  presented  the  loan  activity  data  in  terms  ot  the  number  of 
loans  per  100  homeowners  in  an  income  or  race  category.  We  used  this 
measure  to  provide  greater  comparability  in  terms  of  the  population  of 
homeowners  among  the  various  categories. 

To  identify  the  racial  composition  of  the  zip  code  areas,  we  defined  two 
population  groups — white  and  minority.  We  classified  the  demographic 
data  in  terms  of  the  percentage  of  white  individuals  by  zip  code  area  and 
sorted  the  data  into  five  population  groups  ranging  from  0-20  percent 
white  to  81-100  percent  white.  However,  these  population  classifications 
can  also  express  the  percentage  of  minority  individuals  in  a  zip  code 
area.  For  example,  a  population  group  of  0-20  percent  white  can  also  be 
referred  to  as  81-100  percent  minority. 

To  show  the  loan  activity  within  zip  code  areas  having  various  income 
levels,  we  estimated  average  household  income  per  zip  code  area.  All  80 
ZIP  codes  had  average  incomes  between  $7,500  and  $74,999.  We  sr>rted 
the  mortgage  loan  activity  data  by  the  four  income  levels  per  zip  code 
area: 


.  $7,500-$24,999; 

.  $25,000-$34,999; 

.  $35,000-$49,999;  and 


Page  15 


GAO/RCED-9t-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  1 

Scope  and  Methodology 


Data  Limitations 


Reliability  of  Data  Not 
Verified 


•  $50,000-$74,999. 

We  obtained  information  concerning  home  prices  from  Dataman  Infor¬ 
mation  Services,  Inc.^  Dataman  obtained  the  information  from  warranty 
and  security  deeds  recorded  in  Fulton,  Dekalb,  Gwinnett,  Ck)bb,  and 
Clayton  County  courthouses.  This  home  sales  data  were  the  most  com¬ 
plete  and  recent  that  we  identified.  The  data  represent  the  amount  paid 
to  the  nearest  thousand  dollars  for  single-family  dwelling  properties  in 
the  80  ZIP  code  areas  studied  during  the  period  September  1,  1988, 
through  September  30,  1989.  We  merged  the  home  sales  and  demo¬ 
graphic  data  and  computed  the  average  and  median  sales  prices  of 
homes  for  the  selected  population  and  income  categories  of  zip  code 
areas. 


The  loan  activity  data  provide  information  on  the  extent  and  location  of 
secondary  market  activity  in  the  Atlanta  metropolitan  area.  However, 
we  were  unable  to  determine  the  reasons  for  the  variations  in  loan 
activity  among  areas  in  Atlanta  because  of  data  limitations.  Conse¬ 
quently,  the  data  should  not  be  used  to  derive  conclusions  on  discrimina¬ 
tion  in  secondary  market  loan  activity. 


As  discussed  above,  we  obtained  data  on  loan  activity  and  demographic 
characteristics  from  different  agencies  as  well  as  private  industry 
sources.  Because  of  time  constraints  and  possible  problems  obtaining 
access  to  data,  we  could  not  perform  any  data  reliability  assessments  to 
determine  the  accuracy  of  the  data  provided  to  us  by  these 
organizations. 

The  demographic  characteristics  for  each  zip  code  area  do  not  necessa¬ 
rily  represent  current  ( 1990)  conditions  in  the  Atlanta  area.  The  data  on 
population  by  race  and  income  levels  are  estimated  1989  data  based  on 
1980  Census  data.  We  obtained  this  data  from  a  private  marketing  infor¬ 
mation  service  and  did  not  analyze  its  method  of  projecting  the  data. 


^Dataman  Infontiaiion  Services,  Inc.,  is  a  privately  owned  company  that  collects  real  estate  and  mort¬ 
gage  data  and  prepares  detailed  analy.ses  of  housing  activity.  Dataman  collects  such  information  as 
the  purchase  price,  mortgage  amount,  loan  type,  transaction  date,  and  lender  name  from  warranty 
and  .security  deed  records  at  «junty  and  municipal  courthouses  nationwide  on  a  daily  basis.  The  real 
estate  and  mortgage  data  are  generally  used  for  market  analysis. 


Page  16 


GAO/R(JEI>.91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  I 

Scope  and  Methodolog)- 


Lack  of  Comparability  of 
ZIP  Code  Areas 


1 

i 


ZIP  codes  were  the  lowest  common  geographic  area  for  which  Fannie 
Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  hud  could  provide  loan  activity  data.  However, 
the  lack  of  comparability  in  zip  code  areas  in  terms  of  demand  for 
housing,  the  number  of  renters  versus  homeowners,  and  the  condition  of 
the  housing  stock  may  affect  any  comparison  of  loan  activity  data.  In 
fact,  any  other  unique  circumstance  for  a  particular  zii>  code  may  affect 
the  loan  activity  patterns  and  may  not  be  representative  of  the  agencies' 
purchasing  or  insuring  tendencies. 

The  data  available  to  us  did  not  provide  a  means  of  controlling  for  vari¬ 
ations  in  loan  demand  across  the  various  zip  codes.  We  did  not  measure 
title  transfers,  the  level  of  new  home  construction,  the  number  of 
existing  homes  for  sale,  or  resident  mobility,  which  could  provide  .some 
indication  of  the  housing  market  and  loan  demand  in  each  zip  code. 
Because  loan  demand  influences  the  number  of  loan  originations,  a 
greater  demand  for  mortgage  loans  in  one  area  versus  another  could 
indicate  a  racial  pattern  that  is  not  caused  by  discrimination. 


To  ensure  greater  comparability  in  terms  of  homeowmers,  we  adjusted 
the  population  of  households  in  each  zip  code  area  to  reflect  only  the 
estimated  number  of  homeowners.  The  number  of  mortgageable  residen¬ 
tial  properties  in  a  ZIP  code  area  with  a  large  number  of  households 
living  in  multifamily  rental  structures  may  be  much  less  than  the  overall 
household  count.  For  each  zip  code,  this  adjustment  was  simply  the  esti¬ 
mated  number  of  households  in  1989  less  the  percentage  of  renters  from 
the  1980  Census  data.  However,  we  do  not  know  what  changes  may- 
have  occurred  in  the  numbers  of  renters  and  homeowners  in  each  zip 
code  over  the  past  10  years  or  what  effect  these  changes  would  have  on 
the  purchasing  patterns  of  the  secondary  market  figencies. 


Few  ZIP  Codes  in  Some 
Race/  Income  Categories 


The  demographics  of  the  Atlanta  area  produced  uneven  distribution  of 
the  80  zip  codes  over  the  five  race  and  four  income  categories  we 
defined.  In  some  instances,  as  few  as  one  or  tw'o  zip  codes  fell  into  a 
particular  category.  (See  table  III.3.)  The  uneven  distribution  of  the  zip 
codes  over  the  various  categories  may,  in  part,  explain  the  loan  activity 
patterns.  For  example,  an  income  and/or  racial  compo.sition  category- 
may  reflect  unique  characteristics,  such  as  proximity  tf)  commerc  ial 
activity,  which  may  prevent  lenders  from  originating  loans  in  those 
areas.  Therefore,  we  cannot  determine  whether  the  loan  activity  pat¬ 
terns  are  representative  of  the  agencies’  purchasing  or  insuring  tenden¬ 
cies  or  some  other  factors. 


PMge  1 7 


GAO/RCEr>-91-2  Secondary  Mnrtipige  Market 


Appendix  I 

Scope  and  Methodology 


Compliance  With  Basic  activity  data  available  to  US  did  not  contain  information  on 

Underwriting  Criteria  Not  applications  were  approved.  Similarly,  we  had  no  information 

*  j  ®  on  why  loan  applications  were  denied.  The  loan  activity  data  available 

did  not  contain  information  on  loan  selection;  that  is,  the  process  by 
which  lenders  determine  whether  a  given  loan  application  is  within  the 
bounds  of  acceptable  risk.  The  data  are  limited  to  the  overall  number 
and  value  of  loan  activity  by  zip  code  area  for  each  agency  and  does  not 
provide  any  information  on  the  individual  loans  involved.  For  example, 
we  did  not  have  information  on  any  individual  borrower’s  income  or 
credit  worthiness  or  the  value  of  properties  involved. 

In  addition,  we  had  no  way  to  determine  the  condition  or  comparability 
of  the  housing  stock  among  the  various  zip  code  areas.  Since  home 
appraisal  is  a  mjyor  factor  in  determining  whether  a  loan  is  within  the 
bounds  of  acceptable  risk,  the  condition  of  the  housing  stock  may 
account  for  a  difference  in  the  level  of  loan  activity  among  zip  code 
areas. 

The  only  data  we  have  that  are  related  to  the  mortgage  underwriting 
process  is  zip  code  average  income.  However,  this  measure  is  limited 
because  (1)  the  income  of  potential  mortgagers  may  be  significantly  dif¬ 
ferent  from  the  zip  code  average  and  (2)  average  income  may  be  skewed 
by  a  few  extremely  high  or  low  household  incomes  within  a  zip  code 
area. 

Similarly,  population  groups  arc  defined  by  the  percentage  of  white  or 
minority  individuals  in  a  zip  code  area;  however,  we  cannot  say  whether 
the  loan  activity  or  the  average  and  median  home  prices  in  these  areas 
are  related  specifically  to  white  or  minority  individuals. 


Renter  Income  Included  in 
ZIP  Code  Average  Income 


The  demographic  data  we  obtained  from  dmls  included  the  number  of 
households  in  seven  income  categories  for  each  of  the  80  zip  codes. 
Based  on  this  data,  we  calculated  an  average  income  for  each  zip  code  in 
our  study.  Because  the  average  income  figure  we  calculated  is  based  on 
household  income,  the  incomes  of  renters  as  well  as  homeowners  are 
included.  The  zip  code  average  income  figure  we  calculated  may  be  dis¬ 
torted  to  the  extent  that  renters’  and  homeowners’  incomes  differ. 


Duplication  of  Loan  Data  Fannie  Mae  and  Freddie  Mac  lean  data  may  duplicate  hud’s  loan  data  to 

a  small  extent.  We  wanted  to  provide  a  perspective  on  the  overall  Ginnie 


Page  18 


GAO/  RCEI>-fll-2  Secondary  Mort.gage  Market 


Appendix  I 

Scope  and  Methodoloffy 


Mae  activity  in  the  Atlanta  area,  but  Ginnie  Mae  d(x*s  not  have  auto¬ 
mated  data  to  show  details  on  the  specific  nuD  or  \’a  loans  it  backs.  Since 
Ginnie  Mae  handles  about  90  percent  of  the  hl'd  and  va  loans,  we 
obtained  statistical  data  from  Ht5D  and  va  on  their  mortgage  loan 
activity.  We  recognize  that  some  duplication  exists  because  both  Fannie 
Mae  and  Freddie  Mac  purchased  a  small  percentage  of  niii)  and  \a  loans. 


VA.  Data  Not  Available  by 
ZIP  Code 


VA  data  were  not  available  below  the  county  level  because  va  does  not 
include  zip  codes  in  its  loan  guarantee  data  base.  Although  Ginnie  Mae 
handles  90  percent  of  all  hud  and  va  loans,  we  could  not  include  va  data 
in  our  summary  of  loan  activity  by  zip  code  area.  Therefore,  we  have 
provided  a  separate  summary  of  va  loan  activity  by  race  for  each 
county.  For  the  2-year  period,  va  guaranteed  only  10  percent  of  the 
agencies’  loan  activity  in  the  80  zip  code  areas  discussed  in  this  report. 


Home  Price  Data  Not 
Compatible  With  Loan 
Activity  Data 


The  home  sales  (price)  data  we  used  reflect  the  average  home  values  in 
the  80  ZIP  code  areas  during  the  period  September  i,  1988,  through  Sep¬ 
tember  30, 1989,  and  cannot  be  compared  to  secondary  market  loan 
activity.  Dataman  obtained  information  on  home  sales  from  the  war¬ 
ranty  deeds  recorded  in  the  respective  county  courthouses.  The  home 
sales  data  represent  all  single-family  dwelling  property  transfers  that 
occurred  during  the  period  September  1,  1988,  through  September  30, 
1989.  This  time  period  represented  the  most  complete  and  current  data 
available  to  us. 

Also,  no  relationship  exists  between  the  race  and  income  categories  in 
our  statistical  presentations  and  the  home  prices  within  these  catego¬ 
ries.  We  do  not  know  the  race  or  the  income  levels  of  the  actual  buyers. 

Finally,  because  the  home  price  data  and  loan  value  data  are  from  two 
different  sources,  the  data  cannot  be  used  together  to  draw  conclusions 
concerning  loan-to-value  (UTv)  ratios. 


Page  19 


GAO/RCEI>-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  II _ _ _ _ _ 

Underwriting  Guidelines  Used  by  Fannie  Mae, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 


This  appendix  addresses  the  underwriting  guidelines  established  for 
individual  home  loans  as  set  by  the  secondary  market  agencies  (Tannie 
Mae  and  Freddie  Mac)  and  the  government  agencies  (hud  and  va). 

F'annie  Mae  and  PYeddie  Mac  provide  similar  guidance  to  lenders  from 
whom  they  purchase  mortgages.  Each  specifies  its  standards  in  a  Seller/ 
Servicer  Guide  provided  to  lenders  to  assist  them  in  underwriting 
acceptable  loans. 

Ginnie  Mae  does  not  have  any  underwriting  guidelines  of  its  own  but 
will  assist  in  marketing  loans  insured  by  hud  or  guaranteed  by  va.  hi  d 
and  VA  have  each  established  their  own  credit  and  property  appraisal 
guidelines  for  determining  which  mortgages  to  insure  or  guarantee. 
hud’s  underwriting  standards  are  included  in  handb<x)ks  4155.1  RH;V-2 
(c'*edit)  and  4150.1  REV-1  (appraisal),  va’s  underwriting  criteria  are 
included  in  circular  26-80-11,  revised  (credit)  and  manual  M26-2 
(appraisal). 


CrPTlPral  Hpnilirpmpnts  January  l,  1990,  Fannie  Mae  and  PYeddie  Mac  have  had  maximum 

loan  purchase  amounts  of  $187,450,  in  the  continental  United  States. 
hud’s  maximum  loan  insurance  amount  is  $67,500  but  can  be  $  124,875' 
in  areas  with  prevailing  high  housing  costs.  The  amount  of  the  guaranty 
for  a  VA  loan  depends  on  the  amount  of  the  loan.  Since  December  1989, 
the  guaranty  has  been  ( 1 )  50  percent  of  the  loan  amount  for  loans  of 
$45,000  or  less  or  $22,500  for  loans  of  greater  than  $45,000,  but  not 
more  than  $56,250;  (2)  the  lesser  of  40  percent  or  $36,000  for  loans  of 
more  than  $56,250  and  not  more  than  $144,000;  and  (3)  the  lesser  of 
$46,000  or  25  percent  for  loans  of  greater  than  $144,000. 

Table  0.1  outlines  the  general  loan  requirements  for  mortgages  on 
single-family  dwellings  for  the  four  organizations. 


'Effective  .lanuary  12,  H)90,  therongres,s  raised  the  "high  cost"  limit  to  $I24.87fi  for  fi.s<  al  year 
1990.  The  limit  will  ntvert  to  .$101,250  after  St'ptemtx'r  30.  1990,  unless  the  (’ongri>ss  extends  the 
fis<;al  year  1990  increase.  .Subsequently,  the  President  sigm-d  ;i  tem(K)riir>'  resolution  th;ii  mainUiin.s 
the  .$124,875  lotm  limit  until  October  31.  19tK), 


Pa^e  20 


GAO/R( 'ED-9 1-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  D 

Ifn^rwriting  Guidelines  Used  by  Fannie  Mae, 
Ftvddle  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 


Table  11.1:  General  Loan  Requirements 
for  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and 
VA 


Borrower’s  Ability  to 
Repay  the  Debt 


Income 


Agency 

Maximum  loan 
amount 

Maximum  loan-to- 
value  ratios* 

Mortgage  insurance 
required 

Fannie  Mae 

$187,450  in 
continental  United 
States 

95  percent 

For  LTV  greater  than 
80  percent 

Freddie  Mac 

$187,450  in 
continental  United 
States 

95  percent 

For  LTV  greater  than 
K)  percent 

HUD 

$67,500:  $124,875  in 
prevailing  high 
housing  cost  area 

97  percent  of  first 
$25,000.  95  percent 
of  remaining  value 

HUD  provided 

VA 

b 

b 

VA  provided 

*The  LTV  ratio  expresses  the  loan  amount  as  a  percentage  of  the  value  of  the  property  Maximum  LTV 
ratios  may  differ  in  certain  situations  specified  in  the  guidelines 

“"VA  circular  26-80-1 1  (rev.  Dec  2,  1987)  does  not  contain  the  maximum  loan  amount  or  the  maximum 

LTV  ratio  acceptable  to  VA.  According  to  VA's  Chief  of  Loan  Processing,  Atlanta  Regional  Office,  VA 
does  not  have  a  maximum  loan  amount  or  a  maximum  loan-to-value  ratio 

In  determining  the  borrower’s  ability  to  repay  the  debt,  Faimie  Mae, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  va  recommend  that  the  lenders  relate  the  bor¬ 
rower’s  income  and  liabilities  to  the  proposed  housing  payment.  In  doing 
so  the  underwriwr  should  assess  factors  such  as  borrower  income, 
housing  expense-to-income  ratio,  total  debt-to-income  ratio,  and 
employment. 


Farmie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  hud,  and  va  recommend  that  le.ider-i  make  a 
determination  regarding  the  adequacy,  stability,  and  continufmce  of  the 
borrower’s  income.  Each  organization  requires  that  the  lender's  verify  2 
years’  previous  earnings  in  making  such  a  determination. 

In  addition  to  earnings  from  the  borrower’s  primary  employment,  the 
guidelines  permit  inclusion  of  the  following  items  in  determining  total 
income: 

Secondary  income  such  eis  bonuses,  commissions,  overtime,  and  part- 
time  or  second  job  income. 

Certain  military  compensation  such  as  income  from  the  National  Guard, 
flight  or  hazard  pay,  or  quarters  allowance. 

Retirement  or  social  security  income. 

Income  from  federal,  state,  or  local  assistance  programs,  if  disclosed  by 
the  borrower. 

Child  support  or  alimony. 


Page  21 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  O 

Underwriting  Guidelines  Used  by  Fannie  Mae, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 


Income  Ratios 


•  Other  verifiable  sources  of  income. 

Fannie  Mae’s  guidelines  also  permit  income  from  seasonal  employment  if 
it  has  continued  for  the  past  2  years  and  the  borrower  expects  to  be 
rehired  for  the  next  season. 

In  determining  the  borrower’s  stable  monthly  income  and  earning  poten¬ 
tial,  Fannie  Mae’s  and  Freddie  Mac’s  guidelines  suggest  that  lenders  con¬ 
sider  factors  such  as  the  borrower’s  education,  training,  technical  skills, 
occupation,  and  past  employment  history.  On  a  case-by-case  basis, 
Freddie  Mac  also  considers  the  borrower’s  age  in  determining  stable 
monthly  income. 

When  including  income  from  federal,  state,  or  local  assistance  programs, 
alimony,  or  child  support,  various  factors  must  be  considered  in  deter¬ 
mining  the  likelihood  of  such  income  continuing.  These  factors  and  the 
organizations  requiring  them  include 

•  whether  payments  are  received  pursuant  to  a  written  agreement  or 
court  decree  (Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  hud,  va); 

•  the  length  of  time  the  payments  have  been  received  or  are  expected  to 
be  received  (Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  hud,  va), 

•  the  regularity  of  receipt  (Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  hud,  va); 

•  whether  legal  procedures  are  available  to  compel  payment  (Freddie  Mac, 
hud,  va);  and 

•  the  credit  worthiness  of  the  payer,  including  the  payer’s  credit  history 
when  available  to  the  seller  under  the  Fair  Credit  Reporting  Act  or  other 
applicable  laws  (Freddie  Mac,  hud,  va). 


For  loans  to  be  eligible  for  sale  to  the  secondary  market,  the  loans  and 
the  borrowers  are  usually  required  to  meet  certain  qualifying  financial 
ratios  to  set  limits  on  the  risks  involved.  Generally,  underwriting  guide¬ 
lines  may  establish  maximum  ratio  percentages  and  require  the  applica¬ 
tion  of  these  ratios  on  a  loan-to-loan  basis. 

The  secondary  market  agencies  and  government  agencies  use  two 
overall  ratios  as  guidelines  to  qualify  homebuyers.  Table  II. 2  summa¬ 
rizes  the  housing  expense-to-income  ratios  and  total  debt  payment-to- 
income  ratios  acceptable  to  the  four  underwriting  organizations. 


Page  22 


GAO/RCEa>-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


App«ndix  U 

Underwriting  Guidelines  Used  by  Fannie  Mae, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 


Table  11.2:  Comparison  of  Income  Ratios 
for  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and 
VA 


Table  11.3;  Residual  Monthly  Incomes  by 
Region  for  Loan  Amounts  of  $69,999  and 
Below 


Agency 

Monthly  housing  expense- 
to-income  ratio 

Total  monthly  debt 
payment-to-income  ratio 

Fannie  Mae 

28  percent 

36  percent  (For  LTV  less  than 
or  equal  to  90  percent) 

33  percent  (For  LTV  greater 
than  90  percent) 

Freddie  Mac 

28  percent 

36  percent 

HUD 

29  percent 

41  percent 

VA 

none® 

41  percent 

^See  tables  II 3  and  4 


va’s  underwriting  guidelines  are  unique  in  that  they  provide  for  a 
residual  incon\e  method  of  qualifying  a  borrower.  To  qualify  a  borrower 
under  this  method,  housing  expenses  (including  mortgage  payments) 
and  other  monthly  payments  are  subtracted  from  the  borrower’s  net 
effective  income.  Net  effective  income  is  gross  income  less  federal 
income  taxes.  The  remaining  value  is  the  residual  monthly  income  for 
family  support,  va  provides  a  table  of  residual  monthly  incomes  by 
region  based  on  Department  of  Labor  consumer  expenditure  surveys,  va 
provides  the  residual  income  table  as  a  guide  to  qualify  borrowers;  how¬ 
ever,  VA  states  that  these  figures  should  not  automatically  trigger 
approval  or  rejection  of  a  loan. 

Tables  II.3  and  4  show  the  residual  monthly  incomes  for  family  supptwt 
for  loan  amounts  up  to  $69,999  and  above  $70,000. 


Family  size* 

Northeast 

Midwest 

South 

West 

1 

$348 

$340 

$340 

$379 

2 

$533 

$570 

$570 

$635 

3 

$702 

$687 

$687 

$765 

4 

$791 

$773 

$773 

$861 

5 

$821 

$803 

$803 

$894 

^For  families  with  more  than  five  members,  add  $70  for  each  additional  member  up  to  a  family  of  seven 


Page  23 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  Q 

Underwriting  Guidelines  Used  by  Fannie  Mae, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 


Table  11.4:  Residual  Monthly  Incomes  by 
Region  for  Loan  Amounts  of  $70,000  and 

Family  size* 

Northeast 

Midwest 

South 

West 

Above 

1 

$401 

$393 

$393 

$437 

2 

$673 

$658 

$658 

$733 

3 

$810 

$792 

$792 

$882 

4 

$913 

$893 

$893 

$995 

5 

$946 

$925 

$925 

$1,031 

^For  families  with  more  than  five  members,  add  $75  for  each  additional  member  up  to  a  family  of  seven 


Each  of  the  organizations  provide  for  compensating  factors  which  may 
allow  the  borrower  to  exceed  the  maximum  income  ratios  or  residual 
income  figures  discussed  above.  Examples  of  compensating  factors  pro¬ 
vided  for  in  the  various  guidelines  are 

•  a  large  down  payment; 

•  the  demonstrated  ability  of  the  borrower  to  devote  a  greater  portion  of 
income  to  housing  expense; 

•  the  borrower’s  net  worth  being  substantial  enough  to  evidence  an  ability 
to  repay  the  mortgage  regardless  of  income; 

•  the  likelihood  of  increased  earnings  based  on  education,  job  training,  or 
time  employed  or  practiced  in  a  profession; 

•  evidence  of  an  acceptable  credit  history  or  limited  credit  use; 

•  less  than  maximum  mortgage  term;  and 

•  a  health  or  welfare  or  community  service  organization  provides  funds 
for  unusual  services,  house  repairs,  and  the  like. 

In  considering  the  borrower’s  income  ratios,  Freddie  Mac  guidelines  indi¬ 
cate  that  more  flexibility  is  appropriate  for  the  monthly  housing 
expense  ratio  than  for  the  debt  payment  ratio. 

All  guidelines  require  that  the  lender  provide  a  written  explanation  that 
includes  the  compensating  factors  that  justify  the  use  of  higher  ratios. 


Employment 


As  part  of  determining  the  stability  of  income,  lenders  must  look  at  t  he 
borrower’s  employment  history.  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  iiro 
require  the  lender  to  verify  the  borrower’s  employment  for  the  2  years 
preceding  the  loan  application.  The  borrower  must  explain  any  frequent 
changes  or  gaps  in  employment  for  this  time  period,  ya  also  requires  ver¬ 
ification  of  the  borrower’s  preceding  2  years  of  employment;  however, 

VA  provides  an  exception  if  this  period  consisted  of  active  military  duty. 


Page  24 


GAO/BCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appo>ndix  II 

Undet'writing  Ouidelines  Us«d  by  Fannie  Mae, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 


Fannie  Mae  guidelines  indicate  that  a  shorter  employment  history  may¬ 
be  acceptable  with  adequate  verification  for  a  borrower  who  has 
recently  graduated  from  school  or  was  recently  discharged  from  the  mil¬ 
itary.  VA  also  provides  that  recently  discharged  veterans  or  those  with 
employment  of  short  duration  require  special  attention.  Freddie  Mac- 
states  only  that  the  lender  must  consider  the  circumstances  surrounding 
gaps  in  employment. 

HUD  guidelines  state  that  no  arbitrary  limits  should  be  set  for  the  length 
of  time  a  borrower  must  have  held  a  position  in  order  to  be  eligible, 
However,  for  employment  of  short  duration,  hud  requires  .special  consid¬ 
eration.  HUD  also  indicates  that  in  cases  where  employment  on  a  tcmpK)- 
rary  basis  is  customary,  employment  stability  will  depend  on  the 
availability  of  opportunities  for  re-employment.  F'inally,  hud  provides 
guidance  indicating  that  temporary  unemployment  due  to  action  of  rec¬ 
ognized  labor  unions  does  not  necessarily  make  the  borrower  ineligible 
for  an  insured  mortgage. 

Both  Fannie  Mae's  and  Freddie  Mac’s  guidelines  indicate  that  frequent 
job  changes  do  not  necessarily  indicate  the  lack  of  stable  income.  Bor¬ 
rowers  who  change  jobs  frequently  to  advance  within  the  same  line  of 
work  and  who  are  successful  in  that  work  should  be  considered  favor¬ 
ably.  However,  frequent  job  changes  without  advancement  or  changes 
from  one  line  of  work  to  another  could  lead  to  unstable  income.  Freddie 
Mac  suggests  that  if  the  borrower  has  maintained  a  stable  income  over 
the  recent  past,  job  hopping  without  advancement  should  not  result  in 
unfavorable  consideration.  Freddie  Mac  requires  that  borrowers  with 
unstable  employment  histories  have  demonstrated  financial  strength 
and  the  ability  to  meet  financial  obligations  v/hen  due. 

Fannie  Mae  guidelines  also  state  that  borrowers  who  have  questionable 
employment  histories  must  have  strong  offsetting  financial  strengths  to 
be  considered  for  maximum  financing.  F’annie  Mae  defines  maximum 
financing  as  an  amount  that  is  within  5  percent  of  the  highest  ltv  ratio 
allowed  for  a  specific  type  of  mortgage.  For  example,  for  those  typr>s  of 
mortgages  allowed  a  95-  percent  ltv  ratio,  any  financing  that  exceeds  91) 
percent  of  the  property’s  value  would  be  considered  maximum 
financing. 


Fannie  Mae  Requirements 
on  High  LTV  Mortgages 


Only  Fannie  Mae  guidelines  specify  additional  lending  considerations 
when  the  ltv  exceeds  80  percent.  For  these  high  ltv  loans,  the  lender 
must  pay  particular  attention  to  the  borrower's 


Page  26 


GAO/R('ED-91-2  S«*condar>’  Mongage  Market 


Appendix  0 

UnderMrritlng  Guidelines  Used  by  Fannie  Mae, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 


Borrower’s 
Willingness  to  Repay 
the  Debt 


•  adequacy  of  reserves  after  closing. 

•  ability  to  make  a  monthly  housing  payment  that  is  larger  than  his  or  her 
previous  mortgage  or  rental  payment, 

•  ability  to  accumulate  savings  and  to  demonstrate  proper  debt 
management, 

•  demonstrated  capability  for  increased  earnings  in  future  yeare  (espe¬ 
cially  for  adjustable  rate  mortgages),  and 

•  ability  to  maintain  an  excellent  credit  history. 

If  the  LTV  ratio  is  above  90  percent,  the  lender  may  u.se  higher  qualifying 
ratios  only  if  the  borrower  satisfies  one  of  the  following  requirements; 

•  Has  financial  reserves  that  can  be  used  to  carry  the  mortgage  debt:  part 
of  the  savings  must  be  in  the  form  of  liquid  assets  that  equal  at  least  2 
months  of  housing  expense  payments. 

•  Has  a  demonstrated  ability  to  devote  a  greater  portion  of  income  to 
housing  expenses  (but  the  housing  expense  for  the  mortgage  the  appli¬ 
cant  is  seeking  should  not  exceed  the  borrower's  previous  housing 
expense),  an  excellent  payment  history  on  any  prior  mortgage  obliga¬ 
tion,  and  an  excellent  credit  history. 

•  Has  a  debt  payment-to-income  ratio  (at  the  time  of  the  application)  of  30 
percent  or  less,  an  excellent  payment  history  on  any  prior  mortgage  obli¬ 
gation,  and  an  excellent  credit  history. 


In  determining  the  borrower's  willingness  to  repay  the  debt,  the  agen¬ 
cies’  guidelines  suggest  that  the  lender  should  consider  the  borrower's 
track  record  for  meeting  previous  credit  obligations.  This  analysis 
requires  a  review  of  the  borrower’s  manner  of  paying  obligations  and 
the  ability  to  manage  financial  affairs.  According  to  hi’d  guidelines,  past 
credit  performance  serves  as  the  most  reliable  guide  in  determining  the 
credit  attitudes  that  govern  the  individual’s  future  actions. 

If  the  borrower  has  a  history  of  slow  payments  on  existing  or  previous 
debt,  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  va  require  that  the  borrower  provide 
an  explanation.  Lenders  must  also  pay  careful  consideration  to  past 
bankruptcies  and  foreclosures  and  other  adverse  credit  actions. 

nuD  guidelines  indicate  that  the  lender  should  not  look  for  the  isolated 
case  of  unsatisfactory  or  slow  payment  of  an  account  but  for  a  general 
pattern  of  credit  behavior.  A  period  in  the  past  containing  financial  dif- 
fit  ulty  does  not  necessarily  make  the  risk  unacceptable,  if,  subse¬ 
quently,  a  good  payment  record  has  been  maintained.  However,  if  the 


Page  26 


GAO/  R('EI>-9l  -2  S««condary  Mortgagr  Mariu*! 


Appendix  D 

Underwriting  Guidelines  Used  by  Fannie  Mae, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 


borrower  has  adequate  income  but  consistently  fails  to  repay  creditors 
promptly,  the  reasons  for  this  pattern  must  be  carefully  analyzed. 

Fannie  Mae  standards  state  that  a  borrower  who  has  satisfactorily  made 
payments  on  outstanding  or  previous  credit  obligations  may  be  consid¬ 
ered  favorably.  However,  a  borrower  who  continually  increases  liabili¬ 
ties  and  periodically  bails  out  through  refinancing  and  debt 
consolidation  is  a  marginal  credit  risk. 

Freddie  Mac  relies  on  the  lender’s  determination  that  the  borrower  is 
credit  worthy.  Freddie  Mac  requires  the  lender  determine  that  the  bor¬ 
rower’s  credit  reputation  would  be  acceptable  to  mortgage  lenders  in  the 
area. 

VA  states  that  if  the  credit  analysis  develops  any  derogatory  credit  infor¬ 
mation  and,  despite  such  facts,  it  is  determined  that  the  borrower  is  a 
satisfactory  credit  risk,  the  lender  must  explain  the  basis  for  the 
decision. 

Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  va  require  a  term  of  at  least  2  years  after 
a  bankruptcy  proceeding  against  the  borrower  before  the  applicant  can 
be  considered  for  a  loan.  A  shorter  term  is  acceptable  if  the  lender  can 
prove  that  extraordinary  circumstances  caused  the  bankruptcy.  Exam¬ 
ples  of  extraordinary  circumstances  provided  in  the  various  guidelines 
are  those  that  are  beyond  the  control  of  the  borrower  such  as  a  serious, 
long-term  illness  not  covered  by  insurance,  death  of  a  principal  wage- 
earner,  or  loss  of  employment  due  to  factory  slowdowns,  strikes,  or 
reductions  in  force,  hud  requires  that  at  least  1  year  has  passed  before 
considering  the  borrower  for  a  mortgage.  In  all  cases  the  lenders  must 
determine  that  the  borrower  has  re-established  good  credit. 

Generally,  Fannie  Mae  and  Freddie  Mac  will  not  purchase  and  hud  will 
not  insure  any  loan  for  a  borrower  who  has  defaulted  on  a  mortgage 
within  the  past  3  years.  However,  if  the  borrower  has  owned  property 
that  was  subject  to  foreclosure  proceedings  within  the  past  3  years,  the 
lender  must  document  that  the  foreclosure  resulted  from  extraordinary 
circumstances. 

VA  does  not  make  specific  comments  concerning  previous  mortgage 
defaults;  however,  va  does  address  prior  va  loan  experience,  va  states 
that  such  experience,  especially  if  it  is  recent,  may  be  so  unfavorable 
that  further  credit  is  not  warranted,  va  does  not  state  an  acceptable  time 


Page  27 


GAO/RCED91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  D 

Underwriting  Guideiines  Used  by  Fnnnie  Mne, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 


Sufficiency  of  the 
Property  Value  to 
Ck)ver  the  Mortgage 


frame  after  which  adverse  prior  mortgage  experience  would  not  be  con¬ 
sidered  in  the  lending  decision. 

Fannie  Mae,  hud,  and  va  indicate  that  the  absence  of  credit  history  will 
not  generally  be  viewed  as  an  adverse  factor  in  credit  underwriting. 
Fannie  Mae  and  va  require  that  efforts  should  be  made  to  develop  evi¬ 
dence  of  timely  payment  of  obligations  such  as  rent  and  utilities  pay¬ 
ments.  Fannie  Mae  guidelines  indicate  that  when  adequate  credit 
histories  cannot  be  established  in  this  manner,  the  lender  should  con¬ 
sider  very  conservative  mortgage  terms  only  and  even  those  may  not  be 
appropriate  without  strong  offsetting  factors.  Freddie  Mac  does  not 
address  the  absence  of  borrower  credit  history. 


The  primary  purpose  of  conducting  a  property  appraisal  is  to  estimate 
the  fair  market  value  of  the  property  that  is  the  collateral  securing  the 
mortgage  loan.  The  appraiser’s  role  is  to  provide  a  defensible  estimate  of 
property  value  and  provide  a  complete,  accurate  description  of  the 
property  and  other  related  information  to  support  the  appraiser's  esti¬ 
mate  of  market  value  and  related  risks.  Appraisals  are  important 
because  in  the  event  of  a  default,  the  collateral’s  market  value  is  what 
stands  between  the  lender  and  a  potential  loss.  The  lender  can  recover 
the  investment  in  the  property  without  suffering  a  loss  only  if  the  prop¬ 
erty  can  be  sold  for  an  amount  greater  than  the  unpaid  loan  balance  plus 
the  cost  of  foreclosure  proceedings. 

Fannie  Mae’s  and  Freddie  Mac’s  appraisal  guidelines  are  included  in 
their  Seller/Servicer  guides,  hud’s  appraisal  guidelines  are  in  Handbook 
4150,1  Rev-1,  va’s  standards  are  in  Manual  M26-2  (January  26,  1988). 
Each  agency  uses  the  “Uniform  Residential  Appraisal  Report”  form  in 
conducting  the  appraisal. 

Fannie  Mae  and  hud  appraisal  guidelines  focus  on  analyses  of  the  neigh¬ 
borhood  or  location  of  the  property,  a  physical  inspection  of  the  site  and 
improvements,  and  the  valuation  of  the  property  which  are  the  main 
sections  on  the  “Uniform  Residential  Appraisal  Report.”  Freddie  Mac 
and  VA  address  these  areas;  however,  their  guidelines  generally  do  not 
provide  specific  procedures  for  performing  the  appraisal  other  than 
requiring  completion  of  the  “Uniform  Residential  Appraisal  Report.” 
Each  set  of  guidelines  outlines  three  approaches  for  appraisers  to  use  in 
determining  the  market  value  of  property — market  or  sales  comparison, 
cost,  and  income. 


Page  28 


GAO/BiCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Neighborhood/Location 
Analysis:  Fannie  Mae  and 
HUD 


Appendix  D 

Underwriting  Guidelines  Used  by  Fannie  Mae, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 


Fannie  Mae  and  hud  guidelines  provide  for  a  neighborhood/location 
analysis  to  determine  the  value  of  property  based  on  economic,  social, 
government,  or  environmental  forces  that  affect  it.  Fannie  Mae  defines  a 
neighborhood  as  an  area  with  a  group  of  properties  that  have  comple¬ 
mentary  land  uses,  hud’s  location  analysis  involves  a  comparison  of  sim¬ 
ilar  locations  without  regard  to  the  character  or  quality  of  the  building 
improvements  that  exist  on  the  site.  In  other  words,  a  vacant  site  should 
receive  the  same  location  evaluation  as  an  improved  site  in  a  similar 
location — one  that  includes  properties  having  similar  amenities  and 
values  to  those  in  the  subject  location/neighborhood. 

As  stated  in  Fannie  Mae  and  hud  guidelines,  examples  of  the  forces  that 
may  influence.the  market  value  of  a  property  in  a  particular  neighbor¬ 
hood  or  location  are 

industrial,  commercial,  agricultural,  and  retail  sales  activity  (hi'd); 

price  and  wage  levels  or  the  purchasing  power  of  individuals  (hud); 

employment  opportunities  (hud); 

supply  and  demand  for  living  units  (hud,  Fannie  Mae); 

taxation  levels  (HUD); 

population  change  (hud); 

attractiveness  of  neighborhood  buildings  (HUD); 

neighborhood  character  and  character  of  neighborhood  structures  (hud); 

age  of  structures  (hud,  Fannie  Mae); 

adequacy  of  transportation  (hud); 

degree  of  development  and  growth  rate  (Fannie  Mae); 

property  values  (Fannie  Mae); 

changes  in  property  from  owner-occupied  to  tenant-occupied  dwellings 
(Fannie  Mae);  and 
•  high  vacancy  rates  (Fannie  Mae). 

Fannie  Mae  states  that  neither  the  racial  composition  nor  the  age  of  the 
neighborhood  is  a  reliable  appraisal  factor.  Fannie  Mae  states  that  it 
does  not  designate  certain  areas  as  being  acceptable  or  unacceptable,  but 
does  recognize  that  “locational  factors  are  fundamental  to  proper 
appraising  and  prudent  underwriting  and  that  there  is  nothing  improper 
about  underwriting  on  the  basis  of  a  realistic  perception  of  risk  in  a 
given  neighborhood.”  Fannie  Mae  also  states  that  the  appraiser  must  be 
impartial  and  specific  in  describing  the  favorable  or  unfavorable  factors 
in  a  neighborhood  and  should  avoid  the  use  of  subjective  terms  such  as 
"pride  of  ownership”  or  “neighborhood  in  transition.” 


Page  29 


GAO/RCED-91 -2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  n 

Underwriting  Guideiines  Used  by  Fannie  Mae, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 


HUD  provides  specific  statements  pertaining  to  property  located  in  low- 
income  areas.  For  example,  concerning  the  attractiveness  of  neighbor¬ 
hood  buildings,  hud  states  that  the  appeal  of  a  location  is  strengthened  if 
the  buildings  in  a  neighborhood  are  attractive  as  a  group  and  harmonize 
with  one  another  and  with  their  physical  surroundings  and  that  a 
pleasing  variety  that  results  in  harmoniously  blended  properties 
without  monotonous  repetition  is  desirable,  hud  further  states  that  “it 
has  been  demonstrated  that  a  pleasing  variety  in  dwelling  design  need 
not  be  sacrificed  in  a  neighborhood  composed  of  low-cost  housing.”  hud 
also  states  that  “areas  occupied  by  low-income  families  will  ordinarily 
have  easier  and  less  expensive  access  to  [community]  facilities.” 

In  assessing  the  neighborhood,  hud  and  Fannie  Mae  require  the 
appraiser  to  give  consideration  to  environmental  changes  such  as  neigh¬ 
borhood  decline,  hud  considers  that  the  “infiltration  of  commercial, 
manufacturing,  industrial  enterprises  and  other  nonconforming  uses  in 
residential  sections,  and  the  physical  deterioration  of  buildings  in  these 
sections,  are  other  obvious  and  common  causes”  of  neighborhood 
decline,  hud  guidelines  state  that  “consideration  must  be  given  to  the 
causes  of  decline  in  desirability  and  utility  of  residential  districts  in 
order  to  develop  the  greatest  accuracy  in  valuation  estimates.”  Fannie 
Mae’s  guidelines  do  not  give  examples  of  causes  of  neighborhood  decline 
but  state  that  appraisers  must  consider  the  cause  of  the  property’s 
decline  and  its  effect  on  the  property’s  marketability.  According  to 
Fannie  Mae’s  guidelines,  properties  in  areas  of  declining  value  must  be 
reviewed  with  great  care.  Fannie  Mae  standards  state  that  a  “lender 
must  not  consider  the  use  of  maximum  financing  in  any  instance  in 
which  property  values  are  declining.” 

HUD  states  that  any  older  existing  community  which  is  found  unaccept¬ 
able  because  of  certain  features  adversely  affecting  its  location  may  be 
eligible  for  special  funds  under  its  section  223(e)  program.  The  purpose 
of  the  section  223(e)  program  is  to  permit  the  use  of  HUD  mortgage  insur¬ 
ance  in  older,  declining  urban  areeis,  in  order  to  provide  housing  for  low- 
and  moderate-income  families  and  to  contribute  to  the  upgrading  or  sta¬ 
bilization  of  such  areas.  Special  funds  have  been  appropriated  by  the 
Congress  for  this  program  since  the  insurance  of  mortgages  in  such 
areas  constitutes  a  higher  risk  than  other  localities,  hud  states  that  the 
Chief  Appraiser  in  each  field  office  should  become  acquainted  with  and 
be  aware  of  such  neighborhoods  so  as  to  assure  that  the  special  high- 
risk  funds  are  used  for  properties  in  such  areas. 


Page  30 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  H 

Underwriting  Guidelines  Used  by  Fannie  Mae, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 


According  to  hud,  this  is  not  to  be  confused  with  "redlining.”  To  redline 
is  to  withhold  home  loan  funds  or  insurance  from  neighborhoods  consid¬ 
ered  poor  economic  risks,  hud  states  that  it  does  not  withhold  insurance, 
but  rather  designates  the  insurance  fund  program  which  must  be  used  in 
connection  with  the  insuring  of  loans  in  these  areas. 

Finally,  hud  states  that  gentrification  may  reverse  the  rate  of  decline  of 
an  older  neighborhood  assuming  it  is  not  subject  to  heavy  conunercial  or 
industrial  encroachment.  Gentrification  occurs  when  people  move  into 
older  or  declining  neighborhoods  and  restore  the  homes. 

Both  Fannie  Mae  and  hud  use  an  analysis  of  similar  neighborhoods  in 
determini  ig  the  strength  of  the  subject  neighborhood — the  neighbor¬ 
hood  containing  the  property  an  applicant  is  trying  to  buy.  Fannie  Mae 
provides  guidance  for  a  neighborhood  rating  system  in  which  the 
appraiser  rates  the  various  aspects  of  a  neighborhood  by  comparing 
them  to  the  same  aspects  of  similar  neighborhoods.  A  similar  neighbor¬ 
hood  is  one  that  includes  properties  having  similar  amenities  and  values 
to  those  in  the  subject  neighborhood. 

In  performing  this  analysis,  appraisers  must  rate  the  principal  items  in  a 
neighborhood  that  are  generally  considered  important  by  people  when 
they  purchase  a  home — convenience  to  employment,  shopping,  and 
schools;  adequacy  of  public  transportation  or  utilities;  police  and  fire 
protection;  general  appoarance  of  the  proporties;  and  proporty  compati¬ 
bility.  An  average  rating  should  indicate  that  the  characteristics  of  sub¬ 
ject  neighborhoods  are  equal  to  those  that  represent  the  norm  for  the 
market  area  and  that  are  considered  acceptable  in  competing  neighbor¬ 
hoods.  The  use  of  neighborhood  ratings  should  not  preclude  appraiser 
comments  on  the  neighborhood  conditions.  Fannie  Mae  provides  the  fol¬ 
lowing  example.  If  a  neighborhood  is  characterized  by  a  lack  of  mainte¬ 
nance  or  absence  of  local  government  services  (which  may  be  typical  for 
similar  neighborhoods  and,  therefore,  warrant  an  “average”  rating),  the 
appraiser  still  must  describe  such  neighborhood  conditions  on  the 
appraisal  form. 

HUD  requires  a  similar  location  analysis,  hud  guidelines  state  that  an 
acceptable  location  must  be  related  to  the  needs  of  the  prosp)ective  occu¬ 
pants  and  to  the  alternatives  available  to  them  in  other  similar  locations. 


Page  31 


GAO/RCED9i-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  n 

Underwriting  Guidelines  Used  by  Fannie  Mae, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 


Fannie  Mae  states  that  in  order  for  a  property  to  qualify  for  maximum 
financing,  the  site  should  be  of  the  size,  shape,  and  topography  that  gen¬ 
erally  conforms  and  is  acceptable  in  the  market  area,  hud  does  not  spe¬ 
cifically  address  a  “site  analysis”  but  includes  similar  guidelines  such  as 
those  listed  below  in  its  location  analysis  discussed  earlier.  Fannie  Mae 
suggests  that  the  appraiser  comment  on  the  following  factors  that  affect 
the  site; 

•  zoning  classification  and  compliance; 

•  a  determination  of  the  highest  and  best  use  of  the  land; 

•  the  acceptability  of  the  utilities  and  streets; 

•  the  topography,  shape,  size,  and  drainage  of  the  lot;  and 

•  whether  property  improvements  are  located  in  a  flood  hazard  area. 


Freddie  Mac  requires  the  lender  to  obtain  an  appraisal  report  for  each 
mortgage.  The  appraisal  report  must  be  completed  in  a  manner  that  sup¬ 
ports  the  appraiser’s  estimate  of  market  value  and  presents  to  the 
reader  a  visual  picture  of  the  neighborhood,  site,  and  improvements. 

The  appraiser  is  encouraged  to  use  the  “Comments”  section  of  the 
appraisal  report  or  attach  addenda  to  make  this  presentation.  The 
appraiser  must  also  evaluate  the  stability  and  marketability  of  the  mort¬ 
gaged  premises  compared  with  other  properties  in  the  mortgaged  prem¬ 
ises’  price  range.  Freddie  Mac  generally  does  not  provide  specific 
guidance  for  conducting  the  appraisal.  Freddie  Mac’s  guidelines  state 
that  as  a  matter  of  corporate  policy,  Freddie  Mac  will  not  purchase  any 
loan  made  that  is  supported  by  an  appraisal  report  that  makes  reference 
to  race  or  the  racial  composition  of  the  neighborhood. 


Appraisal  Guidelines:  VA  While  va  generally  does  not  provide  specific  procedures  for  conducting 

the  appraisal  other  than  requiring  the  use  of  the  “Uniform  Residential 
Appraisal  Report,”  the  guidelines  require  the  appraiser  to  use  accept¬ 
able  appraisal  techniques  and  standards,  va’s  guidelines  also  address 
other  areas  such  as  the  following: 

•  designation  of  appraisers, 

•  procedures  for  requesting  a  determination  of  reasonable  value, 

•  procedures  for  assigning  appraisers, 

•  procedures  for  reviewing  the  appraisal  report, 

•  procedures  for  preparing  certificates  of  reasonable  value, 

•  procedures  for  determining  appraiser’s  fees,  and 


Appraisal  Guidelines: 
Freddie  Mac 


Site  Analysis 

Requirements:  Fannie  Mae 
and  HUD 


Fage  32 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortftage  Market 


Appendix  n 

Underwriting  Guidelines  Used  by  Fannie  Mae, 
Freddie  Mac,  HUD,  and  VA 


•  va’s  minimum  property  requirements  for  proposed  and  existing 
construction. 


Approaches  to 
Determining  Market  Value 


The  four  agencies  suggest  that  appraisers  use  either  the  market  or  sales 
comparison,  cost,  or  income  approaches  to  determine  the  value  of  a 
property.  Fannie  Mae  and  hud  place  more  emphasis  on  the  market 
approach.  Fannie  Mae  will  not  accept  appraisals  that  rely  solely  on 
either  the  income  or  the  cost  approach.  Freddie  Mac  does  not  specify 
that  one  method  is  preferred  over  another,  but  states  that  it  does  not 
rely  heavily  on  the  cost  approach,  va  guidelines  indicate  that  the  market 
approach  will  be  used;  however,  in  certain  cases  the  cost  or  income 
approaches  should  be  used  as  appropriate. 


The  market  or  sales  comparison  approach  uses  the  market  price  in 
determining  the  value  of  the  property.  The  market  price  is  the  price  at 
which  a  property  may  be  currently  bought  or  sold.  Appraisers  must 
determine  the  relationship  between  the  market  value  and  estimated 
market  price  through  an  analysis  of  all  circumstances  affecting  the 
property  and  the  transaction.  Appraisers  estimate  the  market  value  of  a 
property  by  analyzing  prices  paid  for  similar  properties.  Appraisers  con¬ 
sider  the  major  characteristics  of  the  similar  properties  and  determine 
whether  they  add  to  or  subtract  from  the  value  of  the  property.  The 
cost  approach  involves  valuing  property  as  the  sum  of  building  repro¬ 
duction  costs  less  depreciation  plus  the  value  of  the  land.  The  income 
approach  involves  looking  at  the  actual  return  on  investment  from  the 
subject  property. 


Page  33 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  III _ 

Secondary  Market  Loan  Activity  in  the 
Metropolitan  Atlanta  Area 


The  summary  data  include  loans  purchased  by  Fannie  Mae  and  Freddie 
Mac  and  loans  insured  by  Hiro  for  80  residential  zip  code  areas  in  a  five- 
county  metropolitan  Atlanta  area  for  the  2-year  period  ending  June  30, 
1989.  As  discussed  in  appendix  I,  we  were  unable  to  determine  the  rea¬ 
sons  for  the  variations  in  loan  activity  among  areas  in  Atlanta  because 
of  data  limitations.  Consequently,  the  data  in  this  appendix  should  not 
be  used  to  derive  conclusions  on  discrimination  in  secondary  market 
loan  activity.  Also,  in  the  following  discussion  of  loan  data  by  popula¬ 
tion  group  and  average  income  levels,  we  refer  to  the  data  for  Fannie 
Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  hud  as  secondary  market  loan  activity.  As  previ¬ 
ously  stated,  VA  could  not  provide  loan  data  at  the  zip  code  level;  there¬ 
fore,  we  presented  the  loan  activity  data  for  va  separately  by  race  and 
county. 

The  secondary  mortgage  market  loan  activity  data  were  greatest  in  pre¬ 
dominately  white  (61-100  percent  white)  zip  code  areas  and  in  zip  code 
areas  having  average  incomes  between  $35,000  and  $74,999.  Fannie 
Mae  accounted  for  the  m^ority  of  the  loan  activity  (40  percent)  while 
Freddie  Mac  and  hud  accounted  for  32  percent  and  18  percent,  respec¬ 
tively,  during  this  period.  The  average  loan  amount  purchased  by 
Fannie  Mae  and  Freddie  Mac  and  insured  by  hud  was  $77,093  and  the 
median  loan  amount  was  $70,531. 

VA  accounted  for  the  smallest  percentage  (10  percent)  of  overall  loan 
activity  of  the  four  organizations.  Minority  individuals  received  the 
greatest  percentage  of  VA-guaranteed  loans  in  Dekalb  and  Fulton  Coun¬ 
ties.  However,  in  Cobb,  Clayton,  and  Gwinnett  Counties,  white  individ¬ 
uals  received  the  greater  percentage  of  va  loans. 

During  the  period  September  1, 1988,  through  September  30, 1989,  the 
average  home  price  for  the  five-county  Atlanta  area  was  $121,772.  The 
median  home  price  was  $93,000. 


Atlanta  Dpmn0rantlir«l  understanding  of  the  demographic  make-up  of  the  metropolitan 

®  ”  Atlanta  area  is  important  to  the  assessment  of  secondary  market  loan 

activity  over  race  and  income  variables. 

Four  of  the  five  metropolitan  Atlanta  counties,  Clayton,  Cobb,  Dekalb, 
and  Gwinnett,  are  predominately  white  (86,  92, 68,  and  97  percent 
white,  respectively).  Fulton  County,  which  contains  most  of  the  city  of 
Atlanta,  is  51  percent  minority.  The  city  of  Atlanta,  itself,  is  67  percent 
minority. 


Page  34 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortaage  Mariiet 


Appendix  III 

Secondary  Market  Loan  Activity  in  the 
Metropolitan  Atlanta  Area 


As  discussed  in  appendix  I  of  this  report,  we  classified  80  zip  code  areas 
in  the  five-county  metropolitan  Atlanta  area  into  five  population 
groups.  Most  of  the  zip  code  areas  were  81-100  percent  white.  (See  table 
III.l.) 

TflhiA  111  i*  MiimhAr  nf  7IP  hw 

Population  Group 

Population  group 

Number  of  ZIP  codes 

0-20  percent  white 

8 

21  -40  percent  white 

6 

41-60  percent  white 

6 

61-80  percent  while 

8 

81-100  percent  white 

52 

Total 

80 

We  also  classified  the  80  zip  code  areas  into  four  average  income  catego¬ 
ries.  Most  ZIP  code  areas  had  average  incomes  of  $36,000-$49,999.  (See 
table  III. 2.) 

Average  Income  Level 

Average  income  level 

Number  of  ZIP  codes 

$7,500-$24,999 

9 

$25,000-$34,999 

16 

$35,000-$49,999 

45 

$50,000-$74,999 

10 

Total 

80 

We  estimated  that  for  1989  the  total  population  of  homeowners  in  the 
80  ZIP  code  areas  was  459,462.  (See  app.  I  for  estimation  methodology.) 
Most  of  the  total  population  of  homeowners  (78  percent)  live  in  the  60 
predominately  white  zip  code  areas  (61-100  percent  white).  Only  16  per¬ 
cent  of  the  total  population  of  homeowners  live  in  the  14  predominately 
minority  (0-40  percent  white)  zip  code  areas  and  about  6  percent  live  in 
the  6  integrated  zip  code  areas  (41-60  percent  white).  (See  fig.  III.l.) 


Page  3S 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  ID 

Secondary  Market  Loan  Activity  in  the 
Metropolitan  Atlanta  Area 


Figure  III.1:  Percentage  of  Total 
Homeowners  by  Population  Group 


The  greatest  percentage  of  the  total  population  of  homeowners  (58  per¬ 
cent)  live  in  zip  code  areas  having  average  incomes  of  $35,000-$49,999. 
The  second  largest  percentage  of  homeowners  (about  21  percent)  live  in 
ZIP  code  areas  having  average  incomes  of  $25,000-$34,999.  Finally,  the 
smallest  percentage  of  total  homeowners  live  in  zip  code  areas  having 
average  incomes  of  $50,000-$74,999  and  $7,500-$24,999  (about  15  per¬ 
cent  and  6  percent,  respectively).  (See  fig.  III.2.) 


Pmge  36 


GAO/RCED-9I-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  III 

Secondary  Market  Loan  Activity  in  the 
Metropolitan  Atlanta  Area 


Figure  III.2:  Percentage  of  Homeowners 
by  Income  Level 


Loan  Activity  by 
Population  Group 


When  considering  the  secondary  market  loan  activity  in  relation  to  only 
one  variable — the  racial  composition  of  the  zip  code  areas,  the  data 
show  that  such  activity  was  greater  in  predominately  white  (61-100  per¬ 
cent  white)  ZIP  code  areas.  The  average  and  median  loan  amounts  and 
home  prices  also  increased  as  the  percentage  of  white  population 
increased  in  a  zip  code  area. 

For  the  80  zip  code  areas  in  the  five  metropolitan  Atlanta  counties,  the 
number  of  loans  per  100  homeowners  was  higher  in  the  predominately 
white  ZIP  code  areas  than  in  the  predominately  mmot  iiy  ui  iniegrated  zip 
code  areas.  (See  fig.  III.3.)  The  number  of  loans  per  100  homeowners 
ranged  from  6,2  in  the  predominately  minority  (0-20  percent  white)  zip 
code  areas  to  8.3  in  the  relatively  integrated  (41-60  percent  white/ 
minority)  zip  code  areas.  However,  the  61-80  percent  white  zip  code 
areas  received  17.2  loans  per  100  homeowners,  and  the  81-100  percent 
white  ZIP  code  areas  received  13.7  loans  per  100  homeowners. 


Page  37 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  HI 

Swondary  Market  Ixtan  Airtivity  In  the 
Metropolitan  Atlanta  Area 


Figure  III.3:  Number  of  Loans  per  100 
Homeowners  by  Population  Group 


Average  and  Median  Loan 
Amounts  by  Population 
Group 


25  Loam  par  100  Homaoaman 


20 


IS 


Population  Group  by  Paroant  Whlta 

Source:  Loan  data  provided  by  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac.  and  HUD  Demographic  data  provided  by 
DMIS  and  the  1980  Census. 


The  average  and  median  loan  amounts  purchased  or  insured  by  Fannie 
Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  hud  increased  as  the  percentage  of  white  popula¬ 
tion  increased.  (See  fig.  III.4.)  For  example,  the  average  loan  amount 
increased  about  76  percent  (from  $46,168  to  $81,179)  from  the  predomi¬ 
nately  minority  population  groups  (0-20  percent  white)  to  the  predomi¬ 
nately  white  population  groups  (81-100  percent  white).  The  median  loan 
amount  increased  103  percent  (from  $38,763  to  $78,762)  over  the  same 
range. 


Page  38 


GAO/RCED-9I-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  Ill 

Secondary  Market  Loan  Activity  in  the 
Metropolitan  Atlanta  Area 


Figure  III.4:  Average  and  Median  Loan 
Amounts  by  Population  Group 


Average  and  Median  Home 
Prices  by  Population 
Group 


90  Loan  Amount  In  Thouaands 


/  /  /  /  / 


Population  Group  by  Parcant  WhHa 

Average  Loan  Amount 
mmmm  Median  Loan  Amount 


Source  Loan  amounts  provided  by  Fannie  Mae.  Freddie  Mac,  and  HUD  Demographic  data  provided  by 
DMIS  and  the  1980  Census 


The  average  home  price  increased  from  $67,161  in  the  predominately 
minority  (0-20  percent  white)  zip  code  areas  to  $132,485  in  the  81-100 
percent  white  ZIP  code  areas.  The  median  home  prices  increased  from 
$56,000  to  $  101 ,000  over  the  same  range.  (See  fig.  111.5.) 


Pag**  39 


OAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  m 

Secondary  Blarket  Loan  Activity  in  the 
Metropolitan  Atlanta  Area 


Figure  III.5:  Average  and  Median  Home 
Prices  by  Population  Group 


Loan  Activity  by 
Income  Level 


140  Oollara  In  Thousanda 


0-20%  WM(a  21<40%WNta  41-«0%Whita  ei-ao%Whlta  81-100%  WMto 

PopuMlon  Group  by  Paroant  WMa 

Ammge  Home  Price 
mmmm  Median  Home  Price 

Source  Home  price  data  provided  by  Dataman  Inc  Demographic  data  provided  by  DMIS  and  the  1980 
Census 


When  considering  the  patterns  of  secondary  market  loan  activity  over 
only  the  zip  code  average  income  variable,  the  data  show  that  such 
activity  was  greater  in  zip  code  areas  having  higher  average  incomes 
($35,000-$74,999)  than  in  those  having  lower  average  incomes  ($7,500- 
$34,999).  Average  and  median  loan  amounts  and  home  prices  also 
increased  over  the  range  from  lower  to  higher  average  incomes. 

Total  loan  activity  per  100  homeowners  in  zip  code  areas  with  the  two 
highest  income  categories  {$35,000-$49,999  and  $5{),()00-$74,999)  was 
1.8  times  the  total  loan  activity  in  those  zip  code  areas  with  the  two 
lowest  average  income  levels  ($7,500-$24,999  and  $25,000-$34,999). 

The  ZIP  codes  in  the  $35,000-$49,999  and  $50,00()-$74.999  income 
groups  each  received  14.2  loans  per  100  homeowners  while  zip  codes  in 
the  $7,500-$24,999  and  $25,00()-$34,999  income  groups  received  5  8  and 
8.2  loans  per  100  homeowners,  resp<tctively.  (See  fig.  III. 6.  ) 


PAge  40 


(»AO/R(’KI>-91-2  Secondary  Market 


Appendix  QI 

Secondary  Market  Loan  Activity  in  the 
Metropolitan  Atlanta  Area 


Figure  III.6:  Number  of  Loans  per  100 
Homeowners  by  Income  Level 


Average  and  Median  Loan 
Amount  by  Income  Level 


20  Loam  par  10O  HooMownara 


IS 


bicoiiia  Laval 

Source:  Loan  data  provided  by  Fannie  Mae.  Freddie  Mac.  and  HUD  Demographic  data  provided  by 
DMIS  and  the  1980  Census. 


The  average  amount  of  the  loans  purchased  by  Fannie  Mae  and  Freddie 
Mac  and  insured  by  hud  increased  about  1 13  percent  and  the  median 
loan  amount  increased  by  161  percent  as  the  average  income  of  the  zip 
code  areas  increased.  For  example,  the  average  loan  amount  was 
$44,746  in  the  zip  code  areas  with  average  income  levels  of  $7,500  to 
$24,999,  and  $95,274  in  the  areas  with  average  incomes  of  $50,000  to 
$74,999.  The  median  loan  amount  was  $36,393  in  the  lowest  income 
area  and  $95,138  in  the  highest  income  area.  (See  fig.  111.7.) 


Page  41 


GAO/KCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  HI 

Secondary  Market  Loan  Activity  in  the 
Metropoiitan  Atlanta  Area 


Figur«  III.7:  Average  and  Median  Loan  fli 
Amounts  by  income  Level 

90 

•0 

70 

90 

80 

40 

30 


tncoiTM  Laval 


mmmmmm  AvefaQe  Loao  Amxint 
mmmm  Median  Loafi  Amoutit 

Source:  Loan  amounts  provided  by  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  HUD  Demographic  data  provided  by 
DMIS  and  the  1980  Census. 


Average  and  Median  Home  average  home  price  increased  from  $67,1 19  in  zip  code  areas  with 
Price  bv  Income  Level  lowest  income  level  ($7,500424,999)  to  $176,425  for  those  areas 

^  with  the  highest  incomes  ($50,000474,999).  The  median  home  price 

increased  from  $53,000  to  $146,000  over  the  same  range.  (See  fig.  II1.8.) 


Page  42 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  ED 

Secondary  Market  L<oan  Activity  in  the 
Metropolitan  Atlanta  Area 


Figure  III.8:  Average  and  Median  Home 
Price  by  Income  Level 


Inootiw  Leva! 

mmmmmm  Awrapo  Hom*  Moe 
mmmm  Median  Home  Prioo 

Source;  Home  price  data  provided  by  Dataman  Inc  Demographic  data  provided  by  DMIS  and  the  1980 
Census. 


Previously,  we  showed  the  patterns  of  secondary  market  loan  activity 
over  the  isolated  variables  of  racial  composition  and  average  income  of 
the  ZIP  code  areas.  Here,  we  have  presented  the  loan  activity  across  the 
population  groups  at  four  average  income  levels.  In  general,  loan 
activity  fluctuated  over  population  groups  having  the  same  average 
income.  However,  for  zip  code  areas  having  an  average  income  of 
$26,000-$34,999,  the  number  of  loans  per  100  homeowners  increased  as 
the  percent  of  white  population  increased. 

Loan  activity  per  100  homeowners  varied  with  no  specific  pattern  over 
the  population  groups  having  average  incomes  of  $7,600424,999, 
$35,000449,999,  and  $50,000474,999.  Also,  the  number  of  zip  code 
areas  in  the  population  groups/income  levels  varied  from  0  to  37.  (See 
table  III.3.) 


Loan  Activity  by 
Income  Level  and 
Population  Group 


Page  43 


GAO/RCED-9I-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  m 

Secondary  Market  Loan  Activity  in  the 
Metropolitan  Atlanta  Area 


Tabl*  Ui.3:  Loan  Activity  and  Numbar  of 
ZIP  Codaa  by  Population  Group  and 
Avaraga  incoma  Laval 


Population  group  income/level 

Number  of 

ZIP  codes 

Loan  activity  per 
100  homeowners 

0-20  Percent  White: 

$7,500-$24,999 

5 

56 

$25,000-$34,999 

3 

68 

$35,000-$49,999 

0 

e 

$50,000-$74,999 

0 

• 

21-40  Percent  White: 

$7,500-$24,999 

3 

46 

$25,000-$34,999 

2 

72 

$35,000-$49,999 

1 

138 

$50,000-$74,999 

0 

e 

41-60  Percent  White: 

$7,500-$24,999 

1 

18.4 

$25,000-$34,999 

3 

7.9 

$35,000-$49,999 

2 

83 

$50,000-$74,999 

0 

• 

61-80  Percent  White; 

$7,500  $24,999 

0 

• 

$25,000-$34,999 

3 

93 

$35,000  $49,999 

5 

21.5 

$50,000-$74,999 

0 

• 

81-100  Percent  White: 

$7,500-$24,999 

0 

e 

$25,000$34,999 

5 

96 

$35,000-$49,999 

37 

14.2 

$50,000-$74,999 

10 

142 

Source.  Loan  activity  data  provided  by  Fannie  Mae,  Freddie  Mac,  and  HUD  Number  of  2tP  codes  from 
DMIS. 


Not  all  of  the  population  groups  contained  each  of  the  income  levels.  For 
example,  only  one  income  level,  $25,000-$34,999,  is  common  to  each  of 
the  five  population  groups.  For  this  income  category,  the  number  of 
loans  per  100  homeowners  increased  as  the  percent  of  white  population 
increased.  Homeowners  in  the  predominately  white  (81-100  percent 
white)  ZIP  code  areas  received  41  percent  (or  2,8)  more  loans  per  100 
homeowners  than  in  the  predominately  minority  (0-20  percent  white)  zip 
code  areas  at  this  income  level.  In  addition,  seven  race/income  catego¬ 
ries  for  predominantly  minority,  middle-  and  upper-income  areas  of 
Atlanta  show  no  activity,  because  our  study  did  not  contain  any  zip  code 
areas  that  fell  within  these  race/income  categories.  Consequently,  this 
does  not  necessarily  mean  that  secondary  market  agencies  are  not 


Page  44 


6AO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  ID 

Si^ndary  Market  Loan  Activity  in  the 
Metropolitan  Atlanta  Area 


buying  loans  in  these  areas  of  Atlanta.  (See  fig.  III. 9.  The  data  presented 
in  table  III.3  form  the  basis  for  fig.  111.9.) 


Rgure  ltl.9:  Number  of  Loans  per 
100  Homeowners  by  Population  Group 
and  Income  Level 


2S  AvaragaLeofwparlOOHoinoO«mM« 


20 


15 


10 


5 


0 


0«r20%WhH« 
Paream  White 


2iiMo%  White  4i%eo%Whka  4i%-80%  White  ai%-ioe% 

White 


S7.S00-524.899 

$25.000-S34.999 

$35,000449.999 

$60,000474.998 


Source:  Loan  data  provided  by  Fannie  Mae.  Freddie  Mac,  and  HUD.  Demographic  data  provided  by 
DMIS  and  the  1980  Census. 


YA  Loan  Activity 


Minority  individuals  received  more  VA-guaranteed  loans  than  did  white 
individuals  in  Dekalb  and  Fulton  Counties.  In  Clayton,  Cobb,  and  Gwin¬ 
nett  Counties,  white  individuals  received  more  loans.  The  dollar  value  of 
VA  loans  guaranteed  follows  a  similar  pattern. 

VA  guaranteed  its  greatest  number  of  loans  in  Dekalb  and  Cobb  Counties, 
respectively.  In  Cobb  County  70  percent  of  va’s  total  loan  volume  went 
to  white  individuals.  However,  in  Dekalb  County  minority  individuals 
received  64  percent  of  va’s  total  loan  volume.  Minority  individuals 


Page  45 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  ni 

Secondary  Market  Loan  Activity  in  the 
Metropolitan  Atlanta  Area 


received  the  grcale?*^  percertage  of  loan  volume  in  Fi’lton  County  (71 
percent)  and  the  least  in  Gwinnett  County  (25  percent).  (See  table  III.4.) 
Of  the  five  metropolitan  Atlanta  counties,  only  Fulton  County  has  a  pre¬ 
dominately  minority  population  (51  percent  minority). 


Table  III.4:  Number  of  VA-Quaranteed 
Loans  for  White  and  Minority  Individuals 
in  Five  Metropolitan  Atlanta  Counties 


County 

Total 

loans 

Loans  for  Individuals 

White 

Minority 

Number 

Percent 

Number 

Percent 

Clayton 

1,183 

605 

51.1 

578 

48.9 

Cobb 

1,488 

1,044 

70,2 

444 

29,8 

Dekalb 

1,541 

550 

35.7 

991 

643 

Fulton 

933 

272 

29.2 

661 

70.8 

Gwinnett 

1,214 

908 

748 

306 

25.2 

Total 

6,359 

3,379 

53.1 

2,980 

46.9 

Source:  Loan  data  by  race  provided  by  VA, 


VA  also  guaranteed  its  greatest  dollar  volume  of  loans  in  Cobb  and 
Dekalb  Counties.  In  Cobb  County  70  percent  of  va’s  total  dollar  volume 
went  to  white  individuals.  However,  in  Dekalb  County  minority  individ¬ 
uals  received  64  percent  of  va’s  total  loan  volume.  Minority  individuals 
received  the  greatest  percentage  of  va’s  total  dollar  volume  in  Fulton 
County  (65  percent).  (See  table  III.5.) 


Table  III.5:  Dollar  Value  of  VA- 
Quaranteed  Loans  for  White  and  Minority 
Individuals  in  Five  Metropolitan  Atlanta 
Counties 


Dollars  in  thousands 


Loans  tor  individuals 


County 

Total 

dollar 

value 

White 

Minority 

Dollar 

value 

Percent 

Dollar 

value  Percent 

Clayton 

$80,026 

$40,374 

505 

$39,652 

49.5 

Cobb 

122,118 

86,000 

70.4 

36,117 

29.6 

Dekalb 

116,827 

43,850 

37,5 

72,978 

625 

Fulton 

69,015 

24,059 

34.9 

44,956 

65.1 

Gwinnett 

97,890 

73,512 

75,1 

24,378 

24.9 

Total 

$485,876 

$267,795 

55.1 

$218,081 

44.9 

Average 

$97,175 

$53,559 

$43,616 

Source:  Loan  data  by  race  provided  by  VA. 


Page  46 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  IV _ 

Coiranents  From  the  Federal  Home  Loan 
Mortgage  Corporation 


Federal 
Home  i.oan 
Mortgage 
Corporation 


Saptenbsr  1990 


Mr,  John  M.  01s 

Director,  Bousing  and  Coimunit; 

Development  Issues 
U.S.  General  Accounting  Office 
Maahlngton,  DC  20548 

Dear  Mr.  01st 

Thank  you  for  the  opportunity  to  coiiment  on  the  GAO  Bsport, 

"Secondary  Mortgage  Market  t _ Information  on  Dndentrltlno  and  Hone 

Loans  In  the  Atlanta  Area."  As  a  major  source  of  funds  for  hotse 
loans  nationwide,  the  Federal  Home  Loan  Mortgage  Corporation 
("Freddie  Mac")  acknowledges  its  leadership  responsibilities  in 
support  of  affordable  housing  opportunities  and  against 
discriminatory  lending  practices. 

He  are  pleased  that  this  report  draws  a  clear  distinction  between 
primary  market  lending  and  secondary  market  activity.  As  the  report 
reflects,  Freddie  Mac  does  not  make  mortgage  loans  directly  to 
borrowers;  rather.  It  purchases  mortgages  from  lending 
institutions.  The  finding  in  the  report  that  the  number  of  loans 
purchased  by  Freddie  Mac  per  100  homeowners  Increases  with  the 
percent  of  whites  within  an  area's  population  la  consistent  with  the 
well-documented  pattern  of  discrimination  as  reported  in  the  Atlanta 
Constitution's  "The  Color  of  Money"  series.  As  a  result,  one  would 
expect  secondary  market  purchases  to  reflect  primary  market 
originations. 

He  are  also  pleased  that  GAO’s  report  highlights  attempts  to  assure 
that  racial  discrimination  does  not  occur  in  the  underwriting 
decision,  as  reflected  in  Freddie  Mac’s  underwriting  guidelines.  As 
GAO  correctly  points  out,  Freddie  Mac  guidelines  will  not  permit  the 
consideration  of  race  of  a  borrower  in  any  aspect  of  the  loan 
underwriting  process. 

In  closing,  I  should  mention  that  as  part  of  our  effort  to  ensure 
that  all  potential  homebuyers  have  equal  access  to  credit,  we 
recently  created  an  Affordable  Housing  Initiatives  Department  to 
help  us,  and  the  entire  industry,  design  homeownership  and  rental 
programs  to  address  this  issue.  Affordable  housing  programs  may  not 
directly  address  racial  discrimination  in  lending  practices. 

However,  we  do  hope  that  these  programs  —  which  will  combine 


1759  8u4)fi«^s  <  cni«r  Diivr 
Reston.  Vifninia  22*)90 


LtlandC  Brendbd 
Chairman 

Chief  liBccuiivr  Officer 
70i/759.«500 


Page  47 


GAO/RCEI>ai-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  IV 

Comments  FVom  the  Federal  Home  Loan 
Mortgage  Cx>rporatlon 


John  M.  Olf 
SeptMibor  6,  1990 
Page  2 


financial  rlak-aharing  with  nor#  flaaibla  undarwrlting  criteria  — 
will  bava  tha  addad  banaflt  of  Inprovlng  hoaaownarahlp  opportunltia* 
for  thoia  who  hava  traditionally  had  aora  difficulty  in  obtaining 
eradit. 

Sincerely. 

Laland  C.  Brendaal 

Chalrnan  and  Chief  Bxecutive  OfClcar 
U;Bitept0191N 


Page  48 


GAO/RCEI>-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Comments  From  the  Federal  National 
Mortgage  Association 


3900  Wtaconain  Avenue,  NW 
WMhington,  DC  20010  2899 
202  752  7120 


WtlUam  R.  Mabni 
Senior  Vj<e  Pregjdeni— 
Policy  and  Public  AfTairt 


September  10,  1990 


FannieMae 


John  M.  Ols,  Jr. 

Director,  Housing  and  Community  Development  Issues 
United  States  General  Accounting  Office 
441  6  Street,  HH 
Room  4073 

Washington,  DC  20S48 
Dear  Hr.  Ols: 

Thank  you  for  the  opportunity  to  review  and  comment  on  your 
report  to  Senator  Dixon  concerning  secondary  market 
underwriting  standards  and  mortgage  purchase  patterns  in 
Atlanta.  I  also  appreciate  the  professionalism  exhibited  by 
you  and  your  staff  and  the  receptiveness  to  input  you 
exhibited  throughout  the  conduct  of  this  study. 

The  major  finding  of  the  study,  that  secondary  market 
purchaslng/securltlzation  activity  declines  with  decreasing 
neighborhood  income  or  increasing  neighborhood  minority 
composition,  warrants  concern  from  all  sectors  of  the  mortgage 
finance  industry.  At  Fannie  Mae,  we  hold  a  long-standing 
commitment  to  the  homebuying  credit  needs  of  low-  and 
moderate- income  households  and  residents  of  inner  city 
neighborhoods.  This  commitment  has  translated  into  a  broad- 
based  strategy  to  meet  the  credit  needs  of  those  with  limited 
incomes.  Many  of  our  activities  that  particularly  benefit 
inner-city  and  low-income  neighborhoods  are  not  covered  in  the 
study,  such  as  our  purchases  of  multifamily  mortgages  and 
mortgage  revenue  bonds.  These  activities  play  an  important 
role  in  providing  decent,  safe,  and  affordable  housing  for 
low-  and  moderate-income  and  minority  households  and  residents 
of  inner  city  neighborhoods. 

Fannie  Mae  is  continuing  its  development  of  creative  products 
and  programs  that  are  designed  to  address  the  credit  needs  of 
low-  and  moderate-income  and  minority  communities.  We  are 
committed  to  the  objective  of  providing  an  equitable 
distribution  of  home  mortgage  credit  to  such  communities  in 
Atlanta  and  in  all  metropolitan  areas  across  the  nation.  As 
noted  above,  the  GAO  study  raises  serious  questions  and 
concerns.  However,  given  the  limitations  acknowledged  by  GAO, 
it  is  important  that  the  findings  be  placed  in  the  proper 
perspective.  As  the  report’s  conclusion  points  out,  severe 
data  limitations  preclude  any  inferences  concerning  the  causes 


Fannie  Mae  llie  USA's  Housing  Partner 


Page  49 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Marttet 


Appendix  V 

Conunents  From  the  Federal  National 
Mortgage  Aaaociation 


of  the  observed  purchasing  patterns.  The  study  does  not 
attempt  to  aapl-y,  nor  will  the  data  perait,  a  statistical 
analysis  of  the  apparent  relationship  between  secondary  market 
purchaeing  activity  and  neighborhood  racial  composition  or 
income.  Though  the  numbers  and  graphs  presented  in  the  study 
suggest  a  relationship  between  these  factors,  the  data 
problems  and  the  lack  of  statistical  analysis  prevent  a 
conclusive  finding  to  this  end. 

As  the  report  itself  suggests,  the  apparent  relationship 
between  race  and  loans  per  lOO  homeowners  could  be  a  result  of 
the  hidden  effects  of  factors  not  included  in  the  study.  The 
report  mentions  several  of  ..hese  missing  factors,  such  as 
Individual  borrower's  (as  opposed  to  neighborhood  average) 
income  and  creditworthiness  and  the  condition  of  neighborhood 
properties.  Without  including  these  factors  and  without 
conducting  some  form  of  statistical  analysis  to  isolate  the 
affect  of  the  race  variable,  it  is  not  possible  to  establish 
that  a  relationship  does  in  fact  exist  between  neighborhood 
racial  composition  and  secondary  market  purchasing  activity. 


If,  for  example,  prospective  home  purchasers  in  minority 
neighborhoods  have  lower  incomes,  poorer  credit  histories,  and 
less  wealth  than  prospective  purchasers  in  white  neighbor¬ 
hoods,  then  the  minority  neighborhoods  will  experience  lower 
lending  volumes  than  the  white  neighborhoods.  Because  a  loan 
cannot  be  purchased  or  securitized  until  it  is  made  by  a 
lender,  a  tendency  for  lower  lending  volumes  in  minority 
neighborhoods  would  translate  into  lower  secondary  market 
activities  in  these  neighborhoods. 

A  similar  argument  could  be  constructed  regarding  the  apparent 
relationship  between  neighborhood  average  Income  and  secondary 
market  purchasing  activity.  The  Income  measure  used  in  the 
study  Is  too  imprecise,  and  the  omitted  factors  (e.g., 
household  wealth)  potentially  affecting  lending  activity  are 
too  numerous,  to  definitively  conclude  that  secondary  market 
activity  declinea  with  neighborhood  income. 

Though  numerous  data  limitations  are  discussed  at  some  length 
in  the  study,  these  problems  are  severe  enough  to  warrant 
reiteration.  First,  only  80  of  the  approximately  200  zip 
codes  for  which  data  were  provided  were  included  in  the  study. 
Though  substantial  difficulties  inevitably  arise  in  assembling 
a  data  set  from  several  disparate  sources,  It  would  have  been 
useful  in  assessing  the  study  to  know  which  ZIP  codes  were 
included  and  which  were  omitted.  Without  such  information,  it 
is  difficult  to  know  how  the  findings  might  have  differed  if 
alternative  ZIP  codes  were  analyzed. 


2 


Page  60 


GAO/RCEI>*91-2  Secondary  Mortga(^  Market 


Appendix  V 

Coininents  From  the  Federal  National 
Mortgage  Association 


Th«  study's  discussion  of  Insufficient  observations  in  sons 
race/ income  r-tegorios  is  also  worthy  of  repeating.  This 
problem  la  particularly  severe  when  the  data  are  analyzed  by 
Income  and  race  simultaneously.  The  finding  that  secondary 
market  activity  decreases  with  increasing  minority  composition 
for  the  $25,000  to  $34,999  income  group  is  very  difficult  to 
substantiate  because  there  are  only  two  or  three  neighborhoods 
in  most  of  the  racial  categories  within  this  Income  grouping. 

An  examination  of  Figure  III. 9  exemplifies  how  problematic  and 
potentially  misleading  this  sparsity  of  observations  can  be. 
This  figure  shows  zero  loans  per  100  homeowners  for  ZIP  codes 
with  0-20  percent  white  population  and  average  incomes  of 
$35,000-$74,999.  A  casual  look  at  this  figure  might  suggest 
that  the  secondary  market  is  not  buying  any  loans  in  the 
predominantly  minority,  middle-  and  upper-income  neighborhoods 
of  Atlanta.  What  is  not  apparent  from  Figure  III. 9  is  that 
there  are  no  ZIP  codes  included  in  the  study  which  fall  within 
these  race/ income  categories.  A  failure  to  cross-reference 
Figure  III. 9  with  Table  III. 3  may  lead  to  the  mistaken 
conclusion  that  the  lack  of  loans  is  caused  by  the  failure  of 
financial  institutions  to  provide  an  adequate  supply  of 
credit. 

Another  major  concern  which  is  expressed  in  the  study  is  that 
the  data  set  does  not  provide  sufficient  information  by  which 
to  assess  neighborhood  variations  in  loan  demand.  Because 
loan  demand  is  a  critical  determinant  of  the  volume  of  loan 
originations  and,  ultimately,  of  loan  purchases,  this  data 
limitation  prevents  consideration  of  a  major  possible 
explanatory  factor.  Without  information  on  loan  demand  across 
neighborhoods,  it  is  not  possible  to  determine  whether  low- 
income  and  minority  neighborhoods  received  fewer  loans  because 
credit  was  not  available  or  because  there  was  less  demand  for 
loans  in  these  neighborhoods.  This  data  limitation  prevents 
evaluation  of  a  central  issue;  whether  or  not  the  need  for 
mortgage  credit  is  being  fulfilled  in  low-income  and  minority 
communities. 

The  study  notes  a  number  of  other  important  limitations,  which 
are  outlined  briefly  below: 

o  The  data  were  assembled  from  several  sources,  with 
no  attempts  at  verification  of  data  validity. 

o  The  number  of  homeowners  per  ZIP  code,  which  is 
used  to  calculate  the  number  of  loans  per  lOO 
homeowners,  is  calculated  based  on  an  1989  estimate 
of  total  households  and  the  1980  Census  count  of 
renter  households.  It  is  possible  that  these 
figures  do  not  accurately  reflect  the  current 
residential  makeup  of  the  ZIP  codes  used  in  the 

3 


Page  61 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


Appendix  V 

CoiiunenU  From  the  Federal  National 
Mortgage  Association 


study.  Any  errors  In  the  estlnates  of  owner 
households  per  ZIP  code  translate  into  inaccurate 
lending  rates. 

o  The  income  measure  used  in  the  study  has  several 
problems.  First,  average  ZIP  code  income  may  be 
quite  different  from  the  Incomes  of  prospective 
mortgagors  in  a  ZIP  code.  Because  it  is  the  income 
of  the  prospective  mortgagor  that  is  important  in  a 
lender's  assessment  of  a  loan  application,  this 
difference  could  substantially  distort  the  income 
analysis  in  the  study.  Another  problem  with  the 
income  measure  is  that  ZIP  code  average  income  can 
be  skewed  by  a  few  unusually  high  or  low  household 
Incomes  and  therefore  may  not  accurately  reflect 
the  typical  Income  for  an  area. 

o  In  the  study,  all  FHA  loans  are  assumed  to  be 
purchased  by  the  Government  National  Mortgage 
Association,  when  in  fact  a  small  proportion  are 
purchased  by  Fannie  Mae  and  Freddie  Mac.  This 
assumption  leads  to  double-counting  of  a  small 
number  of  FHA  loans. 

The  numerous  difficulties  mentioned  above  are  indicative  of 
the  complexities  of  the  problem  which  you  have  endeavored  to 
study,  and  of  the  lack  of  readily  available  and  reliable  data. 
Over  the  coming  months,  new  market  Information  such  as 
enhanced  Home  Mortgage  Disclosure  Act  and  1990  Census  data 
will  be  available.  This  Information  will  enable  businesses 
and  regulators  to  better  identify  and  address  housing  market 
discrimination.  The  efficient  and  effective  allocation  of 
credit  to  minority  and  low-income  neighborhoods  and 
communities  deserves  careful  attention  not  only  by  GAO,  but 
also  by  the  housing  industry  as  a  whole. 

Sincerely, 


Page  52 


GAO/SCE&91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


M^or  Contributors  to  This  Report 


Resources, 
Community,  and 
Economic 

Development  Division, 
Washington,  D.C. 


Atlanta  Regional 
Office 


(3»5m) 


Edward  Kratzer,  Assistant  Director 

Robert  Procaccini,  Assistant  Director 

Patrick  Valentine,  Assignment  Manager 

Patrick  Docrning,  Senior  Operational  Research  Assistant 

Mitchell  Karpman,  Senior  Operational  Research  Assistant 


Jerry  Coffey,  Evaluator-in-Charge 
Fannie  Bivins,  Site  Supervisor 
Deborah  Baker,  Evaluator 
James  Landers,  Programmer  Analyst 


Page  S3 


GAO/RCED-91-2  Secondary  Mortgage  Market 


