Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



,db»GoogIc 



,db»GoogIc 



GOVERNMENT-SPONSORED HOUSING ENTERPRISES 
FINANCIAL SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS ACT OF 1991 



HEARINGS 

BEFORE THE 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON 
HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 

OF THE 

COMMITTEE ON BANKING, FINANCE AND 

URBAN AFFAIRS 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

ONE HUNDRED SECOND CONGRESS 

FIRST SESSION 
ON 

ILK. 2900 

A BILL TO IMPROVE SUPERVISION AND REGULATION WITH RESPECT 
TO THE FINANCIAL SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS OF THE FEDERAL NA- 
TIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION, THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORT- 
GAGE CORPORATION. AND THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM, 
AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES 



JULY 18 and 19, 1991 



Printed for the UN of the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affair* 

Serial No. 102-60 



PRINTING C 

1991 



ISBN 0-16-036997-5 



83 to\ *v\ ^\T 



HOUSE COMMITTEE ON BANKING, FINANCE AND URBAN AFFAIRS 
HENRY B. GONZALEZ, Terns, Chairman 



FRANK ANNUNZIO, Illinois 

STEPHEN L NEAL, North Carolina 

CARROLL HUBBARD. Ja., Kentucky 

JOHN J. LaFALCE, New York 

MARY ROSE OAKAR, Ohio 

BRUCE T. VENTO, Minnesota 

DOUG BARNARD, Jr., Georgia 

CHARLES E. SCHUMER, New York 

BARNEY FRANK, Masaachuaetti 

BEN ERDREICH, Alabama 

THOMAS R. CARPER, Delaware 

ESTEBAN EDWARD TORRES, California 

GERALD D. KLECZKA, Wisconsin 

PAUL E KANJORSKI, Pennsylvania 

ELIZABETH J. PATTERSON, South Carolina MEL HANCOCK, Missouri 

JOSEPH P. KENNEDY D, Massachusetts FRANK D. RIGGS, California 



CHALMERS P. WYLIE, Ohio 

JIM LEACH, Iowa 

BILL McCOLLUM. Florida 

MARGE ROUKEMA, New Jersey 

DOUG BEREUTER, Nebraska 

THOMAS J. RIDGE, Pennsylvania 

TOBY ROTH, Wisconsin 

ALFRED A. <AL) McCANDLESS, California 

RICHARD H. BAKER, Louisiana 

CUFF STEARNS, Florida 

PAUL E. GLLLMOR, Ohio 

BILL PAXON, New York 

JOHN J. DUNCAN, Ja,, Tennessee 

TOM CAMPBELL, California 



FLOYD H. FLAKE, New York 
KWEISI MFUME, Maryland 
PETER HOAGLAND, Nebraska 
RICHARD E. NEAL, Massachusetts 
CHARLES J. LUKEN, Ohio 
MAXINE WATERS, California 
LARRY LaROCCO, Idaho 
BILL ORTON, Utah 
JTM BACCHUS, Florida 
JAMES P. MORAN, Virginia 
JOHN W. COX, Jr., Illinois 
TED WE ISS, N ew York 
JTM SLATTERY, Kansas 
GARY L ACKERMAN, New York 



JTMNUSSLE, Iowa 
RICHARD K ARMEY, Texas 
CRAIG THOMAa Wyoming 
SAM JOHNSON, Texas 

BERNARD SANDERS, Vermont 



Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development 
HENRY B. GONZALEZ, Texas, Chairman 



MARY ROSE OAKAR, Ohio 
BRUCE F. VENTO, Minnesota 
CHARLES E. SCHUMER, New York 
BARNEY FRANK, M" 



THOMAS R CARPER. Delaware 
ESTEBAN EDWARD TORRES, California 
GERALD D. KLECZKA, Wisconsin 
PAUL E. KANJORSKI, Pennsylvania 
STEPHEN L. NEAL, North Carolina 
CARROLL HUBBARD, Jr.. Kentucky 
JOSEPH P. KENNEDY LL Massachusetts 
FLOYD H. FLAKE, New York 
KWEISI MFUME, Maryland 
JOHN J. LaFALCE, New York 
ELIZABETH J. PATTERSON, South Carolina 
RICHARD E. NEAL, Massachusetts 
MAXINE WATERS, California 
BILL ORTON, Utah 
JOHN W. COX, Jr., Illinois 



MARGE ROUKEMA, New Jersey 
CHALMERS P. WYLTE, Ohio 
DOUG BEREUTER, Nebraska 
THOMAS J. RIDGE, Pennsylvania 
RICHARD H. BAKER, Louisiana 
BILL PAXON, New York 
CLIFF STEARNS, Florida 
PAUL E G1LLMOR, Ohio 
TOM CAMPBELL, California 
FRANK D. RIGGS, California 
RICHARD K. ARMEY, Texas 
CRAIG THOMAS, Wyoming 
SAM JOHNSON, Texas 

BERNARD SANDERS, Vermont 



xibyGooyle 



CONTENTS 



July 19. 1991... 
Appendixes: 

July 18. 1991... 
July 19, 1991... 



Thursday, July 18, 1991 



Glauber, Robert, R„ Under Secretary for Finance, U.S. Department of the 

Treasury „ 

Johnson, James A., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Federal National 



Mortgage i 
Weicher, Joh 



xiation ... 



Flake, Hon. Floyd H. .. 
Roukema, Hon. Marge. 



Waters, Hon. Maxine 



Brendsel, Leland C. . 



Glauber, Robert R .. 
Johnson, Joint's A . 
Weicher, John C. .... 



AoDmoNAi. Material Submitted roa the Recobd 

Brendsel, Leland C. responses to Hon Joseph P Kennedy II 

Glauber, Robert R . response to Hon Jim Leach concerning statistics 

Johnson, James A., responses to Hon Joseph V Kennedy U 

Section by Section Summary of HR. 2900 .._ 

Text of H.R. 2900. 

Weicher, John C, responses to Chairman Gonzalez' questions 



Friday, July 19, 1991 



Mortgage Services of San Antonio... 



Ashley, Stephen B., Chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mortgage Bank- 
ers Association of America, and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 

Sibley Mortgage Corporation, Rochester, NY 

" ul, Chairman of the Standing Committee on Mortgage Finance of 



^Google 



IV 

PS* 

Butte, George, President, ACORN Housing Corp., Philadelphia, PA 94 

Duvernay, Terrence R., President, National Council of State Housing Agen- 
cies, and Executive Director, Georgia Housing and Finance Authority 96 

Evans, Daniel F., Jr., Chairman, the Federal Housing Finance Board 62 

Harvey, Bart, Vice Chairman, The Enterprise Foundation, Columbia, MD 98 

Holland, David F., Chairman, Federal Home Loan Bank Task Force, and 
Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer, Boston Federal Savings Bank, Bur- 
lington, MA, on behalf of the U.S. League of Savings Institutions 80 



APPENDIX 



Prepared statements: 

Gomale?. Hon. Henry B. 

Adams, Rick 

Ashley, Stephen B.. 

" i, PaiiC 



Barni,P 
Butts, George 
!may, Tet 



Duvernay. Terrence R 

Evans, Daniel F., Jr. 

Harvey, Bart 

Holland. David F 



Additional Material Submitted fob the Record 

Gonzalez, Hon. Henry B : 

Letter to Chairman Gonzalez frum Peter TVeadway. Ph D , Vice Presi- 
dent, Research Division, Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co., Inc., 

dated July 18. 1991 „ 

Letter tu Chairman Gonzalez from Mr Barry Zutaa. President, National 
Low Income Housing Coalition, dated July 17. 1991 

Cincotta, Gale, Executive Director, National Training and Information 
Center, Chicago, IL, statement submitted .. 

Ferrell, Michael J., Legislative Counsel, Mortgage Bankers Association of 
America, response to Chairman Gonzalez' question to Mr. Ashley by letter 
dated August 7, 1991 _ 

Gray, Jonathan E., Senior Research Analyst, Sanford C Bernstein & Co., Inc., 
New York, letter to Chairman Gonzalez dated July 19. 1991 

Grogan, Paul S„ President, Local Initiatives Support Corp , statement submit 
ted 

Hottensen, Robert G., Jr., Vice President, Investment Research Department, 
Goldman, Sachs & Co., New York, letter to Chairman Gonzalez dated July 
19, 1991 

National Association of Real Estate Brokers, Inc., statement submitted 

Powell, Mack, President, California Association of Realtors, statement submit- 
ted 

Schloemer, Ellen, First Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Program De- 
velopment, GE Capital Mortgage Corp., Raleigh, NC, statement submitted.... 

Spady, Nancy, First Vice President, Lehman Brothers, New York, statement 
submitted _ 

Wylde, Kathryn, President, New York City Housing Partnership, statement 
submitted 



!£ ibyG00gle 



GOVERNMENT-SPONSORED HOUSING ENTER- 
PRISES FINANCIAL SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS 
ACT OF 1991 



THURSDAY, JULY 18, 1991 

House of Representatives, 
Subcommittee on Housing and Community 
Development, 
Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs, 

Washington, DC 

The subcommittee met, pursuant to call, at 10 a.m., in room 
2128, Rayburn House Office Building, Hon. Henry B. Gonzalez 
[chairman of the subcommittee] presiding. 

Present: Chairman Gonzalez, Representatives Oakar, Vento, 
Frank, Carper, Kennedy, Flake, Neal of Massachusetts, Waters, 
Orton, Roukema, Wylie, Baker, Gillmor, Riggs, and Johnson. 

Also present: Representative Jim Leach. 

Chairman Gonzalez. The subcommittee will please come to 
order. 

The first thing I would like to say is that I realize these are diffi- 
cult times as far as scheduling is concerned, and it has been for 
some time. The full House agenda is uncertain at times. 

Today, I understand there is a measure that will have some 
votes, but it is not expected to be a lengthy one. On the other hand, 
I wanted, and I thought I had asked the staff to send out a notice 
yesterday reminding each member of the subcommittee that we 
scheduled a hearing for tomorrow, Friday. 

I know that is difficult. We have always had problems when it 
comes to Friday and the House is not in session, and the members, 
with great understanding on my part, are anxious to get back to 
their districts. 

But in any event, I would urge all the members possible to be 
here Friday. These are very, very important issues. They happen to 
emanate from the level of the subcommittee, but it doesn t mean 
they are any less momentous or important than those we have on 
the full committee level. 

In order to expedite things, we are running slightly behind time, 
we are about 4 minutes behind, I will just briefly state I will ask 
unanimous consent to have my opening statement entered in the 
record, as I have prepared it in writing. It is very brief, but there is 
no use taking that time. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Gonzalez can be found in the ap- 
pendix.] 

(l) 



^Google 



Chairman Gonzalez. We begin this second stage of the process of 
providing for the introduction (of legislation) as mandated in last 
year's budget compromise, with respect to the Federal National 
Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corpora- 
tion, and addressing potential regulatory gaps with respect to these 
entities. 

In May, we had the Treasury present testimony, as members will 
recall, and their recommendations, which axe substantial, as to 
how they would structurally change the secondary mortgage insti- 
tutions like Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and place them under the 
jurisdiction of HUD. 

Now, the Senate, I understand, is also having contemporaneous 
hearings, so that is helpful. But with that, I will recognize Mrs. 
Roukema for any remarks she may have. 

Mrs. Roukema. Mr. Chairman, I do have a lengthy statement 
which I will withhold, but distribute to everyone, and particularly 
those who are testifying today. It is a substantive statement, but I 
will not take our time at the moment, particularly since I must an- 
nounce to the subcommittee I will have to be absent for a short 
period of time. 

I advised staff there have been altogether too many conflicts in 
schedules where inevitably the two subcommittees on which I serve 
as ranking Member are continuously scheduling hearings. And I 
have asked staff if they can't please avoid that in the future. 

But this is the unfortunate situation I am in today. I will be back 
and forth here. However, I would state, without question, that this 
is the most important issue that I see facing this subcommittee in 
the immediate future — not that there are extraordinary circum- 
stances that cause it to be — I mean, indeed, Freddie Mac and 
Fannie Mae are doing a fine job, but we have — and a wonderful job 
which the markets have recognized. 

But, nevertheless, there are concerns that Treasury has ex- 
pressed and certainly that the Congress has expressed in terms of 
the budget reconciliation requirements, and I am most appreciative 
of the fact that you, Mr. Chairman, and your staff have worked 
with our staff on the minority side to move ahead to comply with 
the schedule that has been set out for us. 

So, you are performing admirably in terms of our legislative re- 
sponsibilities here. As you know, the issue — the issues confronting 
us refer to the balance between — proper balance, as we see it, be- 
tween capital and the regulation of the GSEs and their continued 
successful mission in providing low-cost mortgage funds. 

The bill before us today is the product of many long hours of dis- 
cussion and compromise between the majority and minority staff 
and the interested parties that are involved. 

I have joined you, Mr. Chairman, in this bipartisan effort, be- 
cause I believe — at least in terms of the subcommittee print, I be- 
lieve that the bill is a good starting point from which only a few 
changes or adjustments may be necessary, but then again, that is 
what we are here today to discover, both today and tomorrow. 

It is clear that the primary areas of concern, despite what we 
have preliminarily agreed to in our bill, there are some areas of 
concern that continue, at least four and maybe more. I think it was 



appropriate to mention them. The appropriate calculations of cap- 
ital and who should determine those levels. 

I believe we will hear some differences of opinion among our wit- 
nesses today. You know from our work, both in FIRREA and the 
recent banking bill that I tend to err in favor of— not err — that is 
in quotes, "err." But in light of our recent history, maybe that is 
the way we should be erring. 

In any case, that is the area that needs further exploration. The 
amount of discretion the new regulators should have in setting the 
capital levels is part of that problem, and also in reviewing the 

groduct lines and the need for mechanism for affordable housing — 
y the way, before I go on, let me say, I understand there are still 
continuing differences about the regulator, who that regulator 
should be, and contentions between the departments — I don't 
know, maybe they have been ironed out. 

There is also a need for a mechanism for the Affordable Housing 
Program. I have certain grave reservations about the issue as it is 
confronted in our bill. And the issue of pay comparability, I am 
sure, will come up for discussion. I look forward to the testimony 
and working with you, Mr. Chairman. 

I ask the witnesses excuse me, when and if I have to leave. Be- 
lieve me, it is nothing you said. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

[The prepared statement of Mrs. Roukema can be found in the 
appendix.] 

Chairman Gonzalez. Let me thank you and Mr. Wylie for the 
introduction of this measure. I am very grateful to you. We do un- 
derstand your duties and responsibilities. One big, I think, blessing, 
when you become chairman of a full committee, is that you have to 
divest yourself of membership in any other committee. 

To tell you the truth, I was glad. 1 will tell you another thing, 
Mrs. Roukema, I have never grabbed for more than I felt I could 
adequately chew. Even when I had a choice of five subcommittees, 
I felt that was too much to handle. I was a member of the subcom- 
mittee — rather, the Small Business Committee, since it became a 
legislative committee, and it was a great area of interest to me, but 
I tell you the truth, it is very wise that this limitation, whenever it 
was arrived at. I can recall when the chairman had all kinds of 
chairmanships besides the full committee. And today, it is the 
other way around. It is on the subcommittee level that you have 
multiple duties, but we understand, and we are very grateful for 
your great work. 

Mrs. Roukema. Mr. Chairman, now that you made that state- 
ment, I do want to say you are quite correct, and indeed the Repub- 
lican Conference has adopted a limitation on the number of rank- 
ing positions one can hold. And it — when it forced me to make a 
decision between ranking on the Select Committee on Hunger and 
ranking on the Housing Subcommittee, I didn't much like it, but in 
retrospect, it was the wisest thing to do, because there is no possi- 
bility for handling all those waiting matters, three ranking posi- 
tions is too much of a problem. 

I will say, with just a little planning, two are quite adequate. 
Thank you. 

Mr. Wylie. Will the gentlewoman yield? 



Digged byGOOgle 



I would say to the gentlewoman, I have found from past experi- 
ence that scheduling of hearings is one area, though, where the 
chairman is certainly on top, and the staff has very little to do 
with that process. 
Chairman Gonzalez. We do try to meet with various members. 
Ms. Oakar. 

Mb. Oakar. Mr. Chairman, thank you. 

Mr. Chairman, let me first of all compliment you for having 
these hearings today and tomorrow, and the mark-up we will be 
having in the very near future. You have always had foresight 
with respect to critical issues, and this hearing is no exception. 

I want to, Mr. Chairman, say that I think the bill you have intro- 
duced is a wonderful vehicle by which we can have a jumping 
point. There is some fine-tuning, but that is the case in all bills. 
Essentially, the essential part of the bill which relates to the cap- 
ital standards and levels are very important. Mr. Chairman, 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are doing very, very well. I want to 
publicly thank them for the great job they are doing in Ohio with 
respect to varieties of programs that have allowed for moderate- 
income individuals to have access to decent homes. 

I want to say that you have a good bill, Mr. Chairman. I have a 
couple of ideas I would like to share with you in the near future, 
but basically, it is a solid bill, and I think this hearing and the ex- 
peditious manner in which you are going to deal with this subject 
is the right thing to do. 

I want to really compliment you. I also would like to Bay, I have 
to be gone for about 15 minutes for a mark-up, and it will be a 
quicjc one, in another committee, but I will be right back, because I 
mink this hearing in particular is very important. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank my colleagues. 
Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you, Ms. Oakar. 
Mr. Wylie. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

JuBt 30 seconds to say how much I appreciate our witnesses 
coming this morning, and to welcome them and to express appre- 
ciation for your timely hearing on this very important legislation, 
which you and Mrs. Roukema and I introduced on July 16. 

I realize our witnesses may not have had much time to analyze 
that particular bill, but it is not too much different, in concept at 
least, from the bill which Treasury sent up. I think today's testimo- 
ny will be very, very important m meeting our obligations under 
last year's Omnibus Budget Reconciliation to report out legislation 
by September 15, an awesome responsibility we have, and I do look 
forward to the testimony of our witnesses on H.R. 2900. 
Thank you very much. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Mr. Kennedy or Mr. Flake, do you have 
any brief statements? 

Mr. Flake. I ask unanimous consent to have my statement 
placed in the record. 
Chairman Gonzalez. Without objection, it is so ordered. 
[The prepared statement of Mr. Flake can be found in the appen- 
dix.] 

Mr. Kennedy. As a brief statement, Mr. Chairman, I want to 
commend you for the bill that was filed yesterday. I want to just 
hope that the Treasury Department, Mr. Glauber, and others rec- 



ognize that while the importance is primary that the organizations, 
Fannie Mae, GSEs in general reach their financial zenith and are 
able to, in fact, provide the kinds of services they are designed to, 
that we don't lose sight of the mission that these agencies are 
really organized to perform, which is not to simply mimic the pri- 
vate sector, but to provide financing for many of the housing pro- 
grams for middle- and low-income Americans that are so vitally 
needed in our country these days. 

So, I don't want to just lose sight of those issues by focusing 
solely on the issue of capitalization. And, also, as I think — I know 
you are aware, Mr. Chairman, and I hope the Secretary is aware, I 
am also still concerned about the whole compensation packages 
that exist for many of the people that are working in these agen- 
cies, and thinking that the millions and millions of dollars that we 
see going to the upper echelon personnel really ought to be better 
served by providing, I think, most of those people would continue 
to work at those agencies, even if you cut their total compensation 
benefits by two-thirds, I think they would still be working at the 
same agencies and be very happy and satisfied with the salaries 
they are receiving. 

If they got anything double what Secretary Glauber makes, I am 
sure they would be willing to take those jobs. Anyway, Mr. Chair- 
man, I look forward to our testimony today, and look forward to 
hearing from all of our witnesses. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you, sir. 

Thank you, Mr. Glauber, for having sent us notice that you were 
going to be 5 minutes late. As it turned out, you were here on time. 

In any event, if there is no objection, why don't we recognize you 
in the order that we have you listed here, and that means that we 
would recognize Under Secretary Glauber first. 

STATEMENT OF ROBERT R. GLAUBER, UNDER SECRETARY FOR 
FINANCE, U.S. DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY 

Mr. Glauber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the sub- 
committee. It is a pleasure to be here today to present the adminis- 
tration's position on H.R. 2900, the Government-Sponsored Housing 
Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1991. 

As you know, the administration has also submitted legislation 
that addresses the need for enhanced Federal supervision and in- 
creased capital for Government-sponsored enterprises. 

I would like at the outset to commend this subcommittee and the 
full House Banking Committee for its attention to this issue, which 
is of great importance to the taxpayers. 

The administration has several concerns about H.R. 2900. These 
concerns include the lack of primacy for safety and soundness regu- 
lation; weaker prompt corrective action and general enforcement 
powers; the inclusion of an affordable housing program; and most 
importantly, the proposed capital standards. 

Because appropriate capital standards are at the heart of respon- 
sible GSE legislation, I will use the remainder of my statement to 
discuss our specific concerns about proposed capital standards. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I would like to read just a 
portion of the statement, and ask the entire statement be placed in 
the record. 

Chairman Gonzalez. I should have mentioned your statement — 
we want to thank you for it — will be in the record. You may pro- 
ceed. 

Mr. Glauber. The ability of the regulator to establish and en- 
force appropriate capital standards for Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac is the single most important regulatory tool needed to ensure 
their financial safety and soundness. 

The capital standards proposed in H.R. 2900 are a serious con- 
cern for two principal reasons. First, the proposed capital levels are 
significantly weaker than those in the administration's bill. 
Second, the regulator does not have the normal statutory discretion 
in determining appropriate capital standards. 

The minimum capital standard, or leverage ratio, in H.R 2900 is 
lower than that in the administration's proposal, even though, as 
of June 30, 1991, Fannie Mae already clears the administration's 
hurdle by $100 million, and Freddie Mac is short by $241 million, 
but is expected to meet this requirement from retained earnings 
within 1 year. 

However, the most glaring weakness, in our view, is the risk- 
based capital standard that represents the highest level of capital 
deemed appropriate for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The risk- 
based capital level in H.R. 2900 is actually lower, by $23 million, 
according to Freddie Mac's own analysis, than the minimum cap- 
ital level in the administration proposal. 

That is to say, the risk-based capital standard is actually lower 
than the minimum capital standard in the administration's propos- 
al. 

H.R. 2900 also eliminates most of the Director's discretion in es- 
tablishing adequate capital standards by "hardwiring" in statute 
the critical assumptions to be used in the stress test. This causes 
two problems. 

First, it limits the Director to using stress test methodology, 
which is very sensitive to changes in parameters or assumptions, 
rather than a range of tests based on different methodologies and 
other market-sensitive indicators. 

For example, Freddie Mac's own analysis indicates that a change 
of only 5 percentage points in two critical assumptions, the loss 
rates upon default and fixed-rate loan prepayment rates, can result 
in a swing in equity capital requirements of $1.2 billion, or almost 
one-half of the current equity of this institution. 

Second, the Director would also have no flexibility in choosing 
parameters, because the worst-case scenario would already be dic- 
tated in statute. The Director could not then alter the scenario 
until after a more stressful housing environment has been experi- 
enced and identified, which may well be too late. 

If this bill had been law in 1980, the worst-case scenario used 
would have been 1973, but this would have been replaced 2 years 
later by events, the 1981-1984 Texas experience that quickly 
became the newest worst-case scenario. 

I think what needs to be done in this case is what we and the 
House Banking Committee have done in banking regulation; give 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



the regulator flexibility, both with regard to methodology and the 
choice of scenario and resulting parameters. 

The Director must have flexibility to adopt new methods of anal- 
ysis which reflect evolving markets and financial instruments and 
require that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac be able to survive in a 
variety of severe, but still plausible, economic environments. 

Why would there be opposition to the regulatory flexibility in the 
administration's bill and which has traditionally been given to fi- 
nancial regulators? Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac say that the reg- 
ulator will set the capital standards too high, thereby denying 
home-buyers mortgages at reasonable costs. 

This is the issue Mr. Kennedy raised in his statement as well. 

We disagree, and I believe the facts support our case. First, de- 
mands for such higher capital should rightfully come from the 
shareholders, not the homeowners. The shareholders of Fannie 
Mae, for example, have benefited from a corporate return on 
equity exceeding 25 percent on average for the last 4 years, which 
has translated into a return for its shareholders in excess of 80 per- 
cent per year for the last 3 years to date. 

It would surely be possible to retain or raise significant funds to 
increase capital without causing shareholders to suffer significant 
distress. In fact, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's own internal esti- 
mates of their earnings and capital levels over the next 3 years in- 
dicate they will have no difficulty in meeting, through retained 
earnings, the administration's critical capital level, mi nimum le- 
verage ratio, and any reasonable risk-based capital level. 

Further, based on their track record and earnings performance, 
these two GSEs could easily raise additional capital through equity 
offerings. GAO corroborates this general view when it writes in its 
most recent GSE study, "We believe it is possible for Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac to meet increased capital requirements without 
any resulting increase in mortgage rates." 

These are powerful arguments against dilution of the administra- 
tion's proposed capital standards. We do not have to choose be- 
tween the taxpayer and the homeowner; we can do both — protect 
the taxpayer while offering the homeowner mortgage money at fair 
rates. There does not have to be a choice. 

The GSEs have undue concern that the Director will be too zeal- 
ous in carrying out the prescribed dudes by setting the risk-based 
capital standard too high, each GSE can avail itself of the safe 
harbor that the administration built into its proposal. This safe 
harbor would allow the GSE to be deemed to meet the minimum 
risk-based capital standard. 

In conclusion, let us learn at least one lesson from spending $200 
billion on the savings and loan debacle: That meaningful capital 
standards, when the taxpayer could be at risk, must be maintained. 

GSE capital standards must be sufficient to make those enter- 
prises safe to the taxpayer. Anything less would be a failure in our 
responsibility to the taxpayer. The administration will not support 
the imposition of capital standards which appear to have teeth, but 
in fact do not provide sufficient protection. 

Mr. Chairman, the housing agencies are the largest and most 
visible of the GSEs. The legislation drafted to deal with these agen- 
cies will set the standards for the other GSEs. Because these GSEs 



s 

have established such credible records in the investor marketplace, 
we have the opportunity to demand that they build strong enough 
capital on their balance sheets to protect taxpayers and at the 
same time deliver their services at rates which make mortgages 
available at reasonable cost to homeowners. 

We do not have to choose between protecting the taxpayer and 
protecting the homeowner, and we should not. 

That concludes my statement. I would be happy to answer any 
questions the subcommittee might have. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Glauber can be found in the ap- 
pendix.] 

Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. 

Mr. Weicher. 

STATEMENT OF JOHN C. WEICHER, ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR 
POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH, U.S. DEPARTMENT OF 
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT 

Mr. Weicher. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 

It is a pleasure to be here to discuss the administration's propos- 
al to reform the regulatory structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac, and also discuss the legislation, II.R. 2900, which you intro- 
duced on Tuesday. 

As you know, on May 28, the administration submitted legisla- 
tion to Congress for regulatory reform of GSEs. HUD believes this 
proposal would significantly strengthen and improve our regula- 
tory authority to oversee Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

The essence of the administration's proposal is that it provides 
for the primacy of safety and soundness regulation of the GSEs, 
while taking advantage of HUD's expertise in housing and provid- 
ing for the necessary coordination of program and financial regula- 
tion. 

We are glad to see that H.R. 2900, which you introduced on Tues- 
day, has many features in common with the administration's pro- 
posal. I want to enumerate some of these. 

First, HUD would continue to be the regulator of Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac. As you know, Mr. Chairman, some analysts have 
requested whether HUD can be an effective, independent regula- 
tor. We believe we can be. We believe we have demonstrated our 
ability over the last 2 years. 

Second, HUD would acquire significant new enforcement powers, 
including the authority to issue cease and desist orders, appoint 
conservators, restrict dividends, restrict growth, and assess penal- 
ties for failure to report and comply. 

Third, HUD would acquire the authority to charge Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac for the cost of regulatory activity. Both enter- 
prises opposed this authority in the 1992 HUD appropriations bill, 
where it was proposed as part of the President's 1992 budget. 

Because they are both profitable, we believe it is fair that they 
bear the full costs of regulation, made necessary by the special ben- 
efits they receive from the Federal Government and by the risks to 
the taxpayer posed by their activities. 



ibyGoogle 



We believe the coverage in the bill should be extended to all of 
HUD'e GSE regulatory costs to enable HUD and other financial 
regulators to operate on the same basis. 

Fourth, a separate office would be set up within the Department 
with sole responsibility for safety and soundness regulation of 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, headed by a Director reporting to 
the Secretary. 

However, in the fundamentally important matter of capital 
standards, we do believe that H.R. 2900 is not adequate. Both the 
administration's bill and H.R. 2900 contain a three-level capital 
structure with specified capital standards for each level, and sanc- 
tions associated with failure to meet those capital standards. 

However, the administration's bill has, we believe, stronger and 
more appropriate standards for capital adequacy. 

H.R. 2900, while it builds off of the administration's standards, 
weakens those standards to the point of ineffectiveness. Both the 
minimum and critical capital levels are substantially lower in H.R. 
2900 than the administration proposed. 

The minimum core capital level standard for mortgages is re- 
duced from 2.5 percent to 1.5 percent of on-balance sheet assets. 
We calculate that the net effect is that the minimum capital level 
is reduced by 10 percent for Freddie Mac and 25 percent for Fannie 
Mae, compared to the administration's bill. 

Mortgages are much riskier than mortgage-backed securities. 
They are subject to interest rate risks as well as credit risks. The 
bill would not require any increase in standards, while nearly 
every independent analyst agrees that Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac are thinly capitalized, and a higher level of capital is desira- 
ble. 

In addition, H.R. 2900 codifies the conditions of the stress test 
methodology in statute. It provides specific tests for credit risks, 
and for interest rate risk to determine the amount of risk-based 
capital. HUD does not advocate the establishment of precise stress 
tests in the statute, because economic conditions can change. 

We believe the design of stress tests for setting the risk-based 
capital levels should be left to the discretion of the regulator. 

We also question whether the particular test in the bill adequate- 
ly addresses the possibility of severe economic shocks. The tests are 
somewhat ambiguous, but they are clearly less stringent than 
Moody's, which has been the standard used in many analyses. 

The purpose of capital requirements should be to provide a cush- 
ion against severe economic conditions even though they may not 
happen. The stress tests in the bill do not meet this criteria. 

Other aspects of the capital standards raise concerns. Capital is 
required to protect against interest rate changes of the lesser of 
500 basis points, or a 50-percent change in either direction. In the 
past 20 years, the mortgage rate has varied from 7 percent to over 
IT percent, yet this test would only cover an increase from today's 
rate to about 14 percent. 

To cover management and operation risk, the bill allows 20 per- 
cent of the amount required for credit risk and interest rate risk. 
The damage that can be done by management mistakes is surely 
potentially more severe than 20 percent of the risk measured by 



changing economic assumptions. The capital requirement, there- 
fore, should be higher than 20 percent. 

The exact amount should be left to the discretion of the regula- 
tor. 

Mr. Chairman, over the last few years, new public policy con- 
cerns have arisen over the safety and soundness of the GSKo. Con- 
gress has required five separate reports from the Treasury Depart- 
ment, CBO and GAO in the last 2 years alone. 

While these reports agree that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac do 
not pose an imminent threat of loss to the Federal Government, 
they also agree that the agencies are thinly capitalized and current 
capital requirements are inadequate. 

And they agree that stronger regulatory authority is needed, in- 
cluding greater ability by the regulator to set capital standards, 
clearer regulatory authorities governing program approval, strong- 
er enforcement powers, and the ability of the regulator to charge 
for the cost of regulation. 

The reports differ with respects to the appropriate regulatory 
structure, but they agree on the fundamentals of appropriate regu- 
lation. The administration's proposal provides the resources and 
authority for effective regulation of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

That concludes my opening statement. You have my full state- 
ment for the record, and I will be glad to answer any questions you 
or any member of the subcommittee might have. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Weicher can be found in the ap- 
pendix.] 

Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you very much. 

I am sure the capital issue is going to be the main discussion 
point, and in a way that can be regretted, because I think — of 
course, as vital as that is, I am not denying it, and I think there is 
no argument, at least not on my part, that we want the same 
thing. 

We want solid capital standards and requirements, but the diffi- 
culty is in the disparate and contradictory statements over the 
course of the discussion on this issue for the past year, year and a 
half, or two. 

Now, I notice, Mr. Glauber, in the testimony you gave the WayB 
and Means committee, Mr. Pickle, who is the author of the study 
required in FIRREA and last year's budget, that you had then just 
one interest in adequate capital or, rather, safeguards to avoid any 
tenuouBness, as I think every sector of our financial society is 
facing. 

Any entities having to do with financing in our country — and it 
is going to be far more acute than it now appears, as I see it, be- 
cause nobody is factoring in the forces now that are upon us, and 
have been for some time, and over which we no longer have any 
control, and that is the external or international forces. 

But in your appearance before that subcommittee, Mr. Pickle 
said that if the GSEs don't have all the responsibility as the banks, 
then why shouldn't they meet the standard. And you replied they 
shouldn't be overcapitalized, and you cannot drop the capital stand- 
ards of banks onto the GSEs. 



Then Mr. Pickle says, you need a good, solid reserve and don't 
you agree they need to be better capitalized? You said, I don't dis- 
agree. 

Now, the question here is, as anxious as we are to have adequate 
capital and avoid undercapitalization, I think here you admit that 
the equal mistake would be overcapitalization or a strained — 
overly-strained requirement that could have, in another sense, the 
same effect. 

And a dilatory effect on the institutions. Now, in your testimony, 
you said, H.R. 2900 is deficient in that respect, in that it doesn't 
require enough capital from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. I am 
going to say that if there is anything that I have been shouting 
about — not now, and not 10 years ago, but as far back as 1966, I 
can't help it if there is not much attention paid to these issues 
until there is a crisis aboard. 

I think we want the same thing. The only question is, how can 
we be sure that we are providing these institutions with the ade- 
quate capital standards, and that comes to definition. What is the 
adequate capital standard for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, or in 
addition, what is a reasonable risk-based capital level? 

Now, a while ago, you mentioned the fact that a slight varia- 
tion — I think you said 5 percent in your vicissitudes, these activi- 
ties with respect to the — I guess the portfolio. 

Mr. Glauber. Yes. 

Mr. Chairman, in these stress tests, as you know, there are a 
number of assumptions that have to be made, and small changes in 
these assumptions produce very large changes in the capital that 
the model would require. 

Chairman Gonzalez. In our bill, Mr. Brendsel tells us that as 
they interpret our bill, that Freddie Mac would be required to add 
$1.5 billion of capital. Now, that is the exact amount you said 
would be the dislocation if you had this worst-case situation. So, if 
we cannot state what and institution should have in the way of 
capital, then how can we — if we can't be told, with some degree of 
precision— not exact precision— these things, as you say, are predi- 
cated on assumptions, I think the reasonable thing to do is what 
we should have been doing 15 years ago, when we had the writs. 

The real estate investment trust scandals were the first indica- 
tion of what was going to happen. When you referred to Texas in 
1981, 1982 and 1983, we had the recession of 1981-1982, in which 
the pressures had built up. Texas just happened to be the forerun- 
ner because of some other things that had happened with respect 
to the other markets, but it is now national. 

The Texas taint is now nationalized, and that was predictable, 
and we said so in 1983-1984. I was making speeches on the House 
floor as early as 1983, soon after the effective date of Garn-St Ger- 
main, and in January 1984 reporting the land flips, the real estate 
flips, the fast, speculative restructuring of State-chartered S&Ls, 
and nobody could care less, but they are in the record. 

I am not saying this now in retrospect and hindsight Why, be- 
cause — and I don't claim to be an expert, but I do know how to add. 
And I did have 4 years of college math, and I think that there are 
some things that we can reasonably ascertain, and this is what we 
were trying to do in H.R. 2900. 



12 

So what I would like to Bee would be some input you could give 
us as to how in that respect you would suggest language that would 
fortify that capital standard as you see it. 

Mr. Glauber. Well, Mr. Chairman, first, let me say, there is so 
much in what you said in your statement with which I agree, and 
what is known to all is nobody has taken a more effective leader- 
ship position than you in demanding of financial institutions high 
levels of capital. 

You did that when we did the FIRREA bill. As far as I know, you 
have always done that. I think there is a misconception in discuss- 
ing capital standards for these institutions. There is the sense that 
somehow, we have to choose between high levels of capital and 
safety, and providing services of these institutions to homeowners 
at a fair price, and I don't think we have to make that choice. 

Chairman Gonzalez. I agree with you. As a matter of fact, when 
the outcry occurred with respect to the S&Ls, I had been put down 
as a big champion of S&Ls like my predecessor, Mr. Patman. Mr. 
Patman was Mr. S&L. That wasn't the case. 

Are you for the little guy, so you can get mortgages? Of course. 
How can you be for the little guy if you are exposing them to the 
sharks, in an unworthy enterprise, even if it is labeled S&L? 

I agree with you, the choice doesn't have to be between the 
shareholder and home purchaser. The reality is that the people 
that are in the shareholding enterprise section of it are not looking 
at it from the pro bono standpoint, and therefore, this is where we 
should come in as the policy-making body, supposedly looking at 
the overall picture. 

As I see it, as dishonorable as it is to say you don't have to make 
that choice, it won't do any good to have a failed Freddie Mac or 
Fannie Mae for anybody, homebuyer, purchaser, one in the same, 
and I think this is what we want to do, I think, with the best of 
intentions. 

I notice over in the Senate hearings, the big issue was whether 
or not HUD could do the job. Well, this is why it is necessary that 
we sustain a level of hearings that will adduce as much informa- 
tion as possible so the members can make up their minds on the 
basis of as much knowledge as it is possible to gather. 

I have some other questions, but I think I have long overextend- 
ed my 5 minutes. 

Mrs. Roukema. 

Mrs. Roukema. Let me defer to Mr. Wylie, please, and I will take 
up my questions at a later time. 

Mr. Wylie. I thank the gentlewoman. 

I want to follow up on what the chairman was talking about. I 
think the chairman has put his finger on the key issue. I think it is 
as much a matter of definition as anything else as to what is ade- 
quate capital, and you are shaking your head affirmatively there. 

It is more of a definition as to how much capital we should have, 
as opposed to your concept, which is a limitation — I am not sure I 
am putting that in the right frame of reference. The chairman said 
he had 4 years of math in college, and I was going to be a math 
teacher and decided not to do that, and enlisted in the Army in- 
stead. 



13 

So — but we attempt in our bill to establish some minimum cap- 
ital standard in H.R. 2900. The GSEs tell us they can work better 
with a minimum capital standard or with a defined capital stand- 
ard, rather than what they regard as a sort of a moving target. 

And I tend to agree with you, there probably should be some reg- 
ulatory flexibility. I have heard your testimony in that regard. 

I wonder why the Treasury can't come up with a level of capital 
that they think should be required, given the current risk-based 
profile. We are only talking about two institutions, after all. 

Mr. Glauber. Well, first, I think there really are — if I interpret 
what you are saying, two issues. One is what should we set as a 
minimum, and how can we set an adequate level, which presum- 
ably is above that minimum? There is a concern lurking in the 
background, if we aren't more precise, the regulators could impose 
unfair burdens on these institutions. 

First, we disagree with the minimum. We think the minimum is 
too low. The minimum in the bill is set at a level which would say 
the current level of capital for these institutions is adequate. It 
meets the minimum, and many people think it doesn't. 

On how you set an adequate level above that, I think the reason 
that we appeal for flexibility is precisely the reason that it is done 
with banks and in banking regulation, that it is impossible to write 
into law hardwire specifications that won't be washed away by the 
events of time. 

What seems sensible now, in light of the kind of securities that 
are issued, will very quickly not seem sensible as events introduce 
new kinds of securities and new operating procedures. So, I think it 
really doesn't make sense to hardwire that precisely. 

Now, that immediately raises the question, if you don't — if you 
aren't precise, will not the regulators have carte blanche to do 
something which is irresponsibly severe, and maybe the way to 
deal with that is not only to set a minimum standard, but to set a 
maximum, set a ceiling as well as a floor, and that can be done in a 
variety of ways. 

We proposed one way to set a ceiling, and that was the safe 
harbor provision. To say notwithstanding whatever the regulators 
may set down as regulations if you qualify under this provision, 
you have met the standards. There are other ways to do it. 

But if you ask me, could we not agree on a measure of adequate 
capital, I guess my answer is I don't think we could write down a 
number. We could write down perhaps some more refined proce- 
dures, and we could set an upper and lower limit, perhaps, inside 
of which the regulator would have discretion to respond to the 
changing events and changing operating policies of these institu- 
tions. 

- Mr. Wylie. Could you elaborate a little bit as to why you think 
the regulator needs this flexibility in creating the so-called stress 
test? ■ 

Mr. Glauber. I think for two reasons: One, the kinds of securi- 
ties that these institutions issue is going to change over time. The 
financial markets are innovative, they are going to invent new se- 
curities. 

D^izedbyGOOgle 



14 

These institutions are going to want to issue them. In order to 
deal with those new kinds of securities, there needs to be flexibil- 
ity. 

The second reason there needs to be flexibility is, I guess it is 
very difficult for me to understand how we would want to put in 
legislation that the regulators should use this pack of computer 
cards and use this window of history as the basis for determining 
what is adequate capital. 

The problem with using specific periods of history is that they 
are constantly replaced. When we talk about the most stressful 
time we have ever seen, we may see a more stressful time, and we 
would wish we hadn't nailed ourselves to that particular specifica- 
tion of a period. 

If I might, there is a wonderful — wonderful example. It is a 
tragic experience, but in the North Sea, when they were building 
platforms to drill for oil, they built them to be high enough to with- 
stand the highest waves that had been experienced in 100 years. 
Several years after they built one of these and attached next to it a 
hotel facility, that hotel facility capsized because they experienced 
waves higher than they ever experienced in the past 100 years. 

If we nail into the legislation a specification that this is the 
worst event that we will see, time and time again, we have seen 
that isn't the fact. It is washed away by a more serious event. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Will you yield to me, Mr. Wylie? 

Mr. Wylie. Yes. 

Chairman Gonzalez. On the other hand, you said a little while 
ago, perhaps one way would be to set a ceiling as well as a floor. In 
H.R. 2900, this is what we are trying to do. We thought we were 
setting a parameter for the regulator within which is discretion, 
because just like in the case of the oil platform, in our case we 
aren't dealing with the waves, we are dealing with human beings, 
and we have got to legislate as if the legislation is going to be car- 
ried out by the devil, not by angels. 

So thk is the reason we thought we would have parameters 
within which the judgment and discretionary factor of that regula- 
tor would be appropriate. That — thank you very much. 

Mr. Wylie. The chairman is making an excellent point. I would 
just follow up on that and suggest, if I understand your testimony, 
you don't think that our upper limit is enough, and may I respect- 
fully suggest, would you have a suggestion as to an upper or lower 
limit, and maybe we can use that as at least a negotiating position? 

Mr. Glauber. I think we put our finger on exactly the issue. 
What is the right balance between specificity and flexibility? Our 
view is there just isn't enough flexibility, and I think people can 
disagree. I have one approach, and I cannot give you an exact 
number, because clearly, the number depends on the kinds of 
assets that the different institutions hold, their operating proce- 
dures, so I can't give you a number. 

We have always been intrigued by the idea that private compa- 
nies regularly get calibrated as to the amount of risk they have by 
rating agencies, and we don't suggest that we should turn this au- 
thority over to rating agencies, but we could imagine the regulator, 
in setting these regulations, could be guided by equivalent risk 



15 

levels to other institutions in the marketplace that have been cali- 
brated by rating agencies. 

I think that might be one effective way, Mr. Wylie, of getting 
some fix on what is adequate, because that is really what we are 
talking about. 

Mr. Wylie. That really is what we are talking about, and maybe 
we can discuss that further. My time has expired. We ran into this 
in our FIRREA legislation as to what adequate capital standards 
should be for S&Ls. 

There were those that argued goodwill should be included as part 
of the test. I think what we should know is what factor should be 
included in the test. 

Mr. Glauber. If I might pick up on something you just said, Mr. 
Wylie? In FIRREA, what we have traditionally done is set mini- 
mums and give the regulators discretion above those minimums. 
And it is really that structure that I think is the appropriate struc- 
ture. 

Now, we can try and refine that more so that the regulators 
aren't given excessive discretion, but I think we have to be careful 
not to go too far and totally tie their hands in a way we might 
regret later. 

Mr. Wylie. That is true. There is some analogy except when we 
talk about capital standards for banks, we are talking about 14,000 
banks of all sizes and with reference to S&Ls, we are talking about 
2,100; in the case of GSEs, we are only talking about two. 

Mr. Glauber. That is a fair point. I think we can do more 
custom tailoring when you only have two clients. I think that is 
fair. 

Mr. Wylie. Thank you very much. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Mr. Kennedy. 

Mr. Kennedy. No questions at this time, Mr. Chairman. 

Maybe I could yield to Mr. Neal or whoever would be next, and 
come back at the end of the questioning. Would that be possible? 

Mr. Neal of Massachusetts. Mr. Chairman, I have one question 
for Mr. Glauber. I think, first of all, we would all acknowledge the 
GSEs have worked reasonably well. The experience I had as a 
former mayor of a major city, they play a very important role. 

By and large, I would say as an entity, they have done far better 
than most of the entities that you deal with in that capacity of run- 
ning a major city. 

Mr. Glauber. Absolutely. Again, our comments on issues of 
safety and soundness are not meant to reflect in any way upon the 
performance of these agencies. 

Mr. Neal op Massachusetts. Your position is sound and reason- 
able, particularly in light of what has happened in the Banking 
Committee. We have witnessed profound changes across financial 
America. In the Treasury's legislation, there was no mechanism by 
which the regulator could assure additional capital came from 
earnings or was raised in the markets and not passed through the 
home owner. 

Should a regulator be given the power to review fees and charges 
to make sure the additional capital costs are not passed on to the 
prospective home owner? 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



16 

Mr. Glauber. You put your linger on an issue that floats 
throughout these hearings, and the issues that you are considering. 
It is related to the question of whether or not you impose restric- 
tions on the compensation of people. To be very frank, it is not the 
issue on which we focused. 

Our mandate you gave Treasury was to look at safety and sound- 
ness issues, and not on the regulation of charges, compensation, 
and those related things. I think that is a very difficult trade-off. 
These are private institutions and traditionally, what we Bay with 
private institutions is that the marketplace regulates them. 

On the other hand, these are private institutions that operate in 
a particular market where the two of them dominate that market. 
The market forces are somewhat diluted from what they would 
usually be. 

Mr. Neal or Massachusetts. I guess the GSE's have been suc- 
cessful because of the term we throw around here all the time, rea- 
sonable costs, and I think we should be mindful of that, obviously 
as the debate ensues. Thank you. 

Mr. Glauber. I agree with you completely on that. 

Mr. Neal of Massachusetts. That is the only question I had. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Will you yield to me? You have a little 
time. 

Mr. Neal of Massachusetts. Yes. 

Chairman Gonzalez. I think there is a fundamental — I don't 
know what to call it, philosophy, what have you. It just seems to 
me that when we trv to have all the good of being called private, 
with all of the subsidy of being public, that who can win against 
that combination? 

This is what has been happening in the other areas of our finan- 
cial activities. If they do dominate the market, Mr. Neal, it is be- 
cause they have that little advantage that the Federal Government 
gives them, which I say is a subsidy. 

Mr. Neal of Massachusetts. That is not a little advantage. 

Chairman Gonzalez. You can call it whatever you want to. Oth- 
erwise their competitors in the private market would be on an 
even basis, and I think we have got to make it clear that we are 
not talking about an out and out private enterprise, so that when 
compensation comes up as to the officials of these entities and they 
say, oh, well, but we put on our private hat here. We want to get 
the same as some big corporate head over here, and maybe more. I 
think that Congress here has got to make up its mind. 

Maybe we ought to go back and take up President's Reagan's and 
Dave Stockman s first recommendation to us on February 8, 1981, 
that we "privatize" these two secondary mortgage institutions. 
That was what they wanted on that basis, that too much national 
credit was being allocated to the housing sector and to wit the sec- 
ondary mortgage market. So we better realize that if we are here it 
is because the Government and the Congress has a responsibility in 
view of the fact that these are quasi-public enterprises, inasmuch 
as they are making use of public funds. 

Anyway, you want to look at it We can be very polite and say it 
isn't, that it is just something else, but that is what it is. Thank 
you for yielding, Mr. Neal. I just think we have to get back to the 



17 

We have stayed away from basics in our country, and we have to 
get back to basics and calling things by what they are and not de- 
ceiving ourselves because of some convolutions in ideology and phi- 
losophy and private and public and what is relief, and what isn't, 
and what is socialistic and what isn't. 

That is nonsense. We have got to get back to the basics, and the 
basics are very simple. They are outlined fully in the Constitution. 
Anyway, thank you very much for yielding. 

Mr. Baker. 

Mr. Baker. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

I am really trying to understand the distinction between an abso- 
lute capital standard and the stress test as outlined in the legisla- 
tion. As has been given to me, if the stress tests were put into 
effect as proposed under H.R. 2900, that the current evaluations 
would establish about a $750 million cushion under the perform- 
ance of the stress test above what minimum capital requirements 
might be. 

Now, I am trying to get a handle on whether or not there are 
modifications to the test that make sense in light of the comments 
made in both of your statements that there are elements of the test 
which don't seem to really reflect worst-case scenario because I 
don't think an absolute capital standard, given the history of S&L's 
and banks always makes sense. 

You could be at 3 percent in an S&L. If you got there by going 
down from 6, that is not a good test. If you are at three and you got 
there from zero, that might be an indication you are going to be 
OK, just in a very broad sense, so that an operational analysis, a 
cash-flow analysis is a much preferred system to determine good 
from bad. 

The stress test seems to be moving in that direction, but I am not 
comfortable yet that the stress test does what maybe we ought to 
be doing. For instance, the requirement is an 8-year assumption on 
worst-case scenario. 

You raised the issue in one statement that the origination period 
during which the highest default experience occurs is one possibili- 
ty or 3 years during which the highest percent of defaults occur, 
regardless of when the originations took place, and whether it is A 
or B, B, to me, is obviously the way you want to go. 

What I am trying to lead up to is are there specific adjustments 
that we can make to the stress test to create a clear managerial 
tool that sets reasonable standards against the most onerous of con- 
ditions, because I think we do have to recognize that this is a busi- 
ness entity which has a public responsibility, and if we leave it in 
an unclear definitional status, how do you make your business plan 
to have sufficient capital to meet your regulatory standard, and not 
at the same time deter from your public mission to provide financ- 
ing for housing? 

I am Just looking for specifics. I know you don't like having — 
maybe I am speaking directly to Mr. Glauber here, having it in 
statute, and I know there is some concern about stress tests gener- 
ally, but if we were going to have one at all, what would be the 
elements you would change in what we have in front of us to make 
it a tolerable or a reasonably acceptable test by which safety and 
soundness could be assured? 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



18 

Mr. Glauber. Well, you have raised all the right questions, and I 
must tell you that my answer has to be I would not rely singly on a 
stress test. I think there are two fundamental problems with stress 
teats. One is that they are very sensitive to the assumptions you 
put in. 

Small changes in the assumptions yield very large changes in the 
required capital levels. I gave as an example in my testimony, 
changing from 30 to 35 percent, a couple of the input assumptions 
in these models changes the amount of required capital by over $1 
billion, so those are big changes for small changes in the assump- 
tions. 

The second problem I have with stress tests as the single method- 
ology on which you rely is that they always are looking backward 
at a particular piece of history, a particular portion of time, and 
the problem is that what was and appeared to be the most stressful 
situation you have ever seen seems constantly to be washed away 
by a new, more stressful situation. 

If we had Bet adequate capital levels on the basis of the most 
stressful situation that we had ever seen back in 1979, we would 
have been wrong 2 years later. 

Mr. Baker. But the point there, though, is that whether you are 
doing it with a stress test, which is composed of a number of varia- 
bles that we agree are the appropriate variables, a capital standard 
is achieved by someone making an external judgment as to what 
current conditions make the reserve a safe reserve, and we don't 
reserve 100 percent against all losses, and we certainly don't re- 
serve zero percent, so somewhere between the two extremes we 
come to a negotiated agreement. 

What I think I am hearing you say is that the negotiated agree- 
ment can't be set by formula. It needs to be set by regulators, and 
the concern is what elements are you using to set the level of cap- 
ital reserves that we are not using in the stress test? 

For example, somewhere in here there is a comment that — I 
don't have it immediately in front of me, but the general comment 
is that there is external information that you have about the condi- 
tion of Fannie and Freddie which indicate to you that the reference 
that they propose are not sufficient, even though they are in good 
shape today. 

Mr. Glauber. I don't want to say it that way. I think the stress 
test should be an important ingredient, but the way these institu- 
tions are managed, the operational, the management risk is an im- 
portant ingredient into that. 

I don't think you want to pin the entire process of setting capital 
standards to a pack of computer cards. 

Mr. Baker. But we could exclude managerial and capital risk 
from capital standards because no matter how good your capital re- 
quirements are, if you got a bad guy running the business, you are 
in trouble. 

Mr. Glauber. But it is also true that if you run your business in 
a way that responds more slowly to changes, you want a bigger 
buffer of capital to guard against that 

Mr. Baker. Mr. Chairman, I know my time has expired but just 
one last question, if I might. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



19 

I am sony. Is there a number? If we are going to say today what 
our capital standards should be, what is it? 

Mr. Glauber. I cannot give you a number, first because the 
number would be different for Fannie Mae than it would be for 
Freddie Mac because they are different institutions. They hold dif- 
ferent kinds of assets. 

Mr. Baker. We have two numbers, one for Fannie, one for Fred- 
die. 

Mr. Glauber. It is not my job to give you a number. What I 
think I can do is give you a process. This is not totally uncharted 
waters. The private markets do this all the time. They make judg- 
ments about which institutions are riskier than another and 
whether an institution is too risky. 

They do this all the time, but they do it by a process that goes 
beyond relying on single test with one single period in history. 
That is all I am saying. I think you need more 

Chairman Gonzalez. Ms. Oakar. 

Mb. Oakar. Mr. Chairman, very briefly. Thank you again for 
your patience with me. For the record, gentlemen, could you specif- 
ically state what role the Department of HUD and the Department 
of Treasury, under current law have with respect to regulating 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac? 

Mr. Glauber. I don't think I did in my testimony. I will be 
happy to do so. Let me speak for Treasury. We, I think, have a 
traffic cop role. We sometimes intervene in the timing of the issu- 
ance of securities by these enterprises simply to make certain that 
they don't disrupt the market. This is what we view as our role in 
regulating these institutions today. 

My colleague, I think, can speak for HUD. 

Mr. Weicher. Ms. Oakar, we are the regulator of Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac. We have been the regulator of Fannie Mae since 
the Charter Act was passed in 1968. We have been the regulator of 
Freddie Mac since FIRREA was passed in 1989. 

We are responsible for approving new programs under the Char- 
ter Acts. We are responsible for setting capital standards under the 
terms of the Charter Acts. 

We are responsible for reporting to you annually on the condi- 
tion of the institutions and providing other information as you re- 
quest. 

We have had those responsibilities, as I have said, for some 
period of time in the case of Fannie Mae. We have been exercising 
them, we think, vigorously and effectively over the last 2 years. We 
are the regulator. 

Ms. Oakar. Two years ago in the wake of the S&L crisis, Con- 
gress, of course, was a little reflective about the future of other 
agencies and quasi-government agencies like Fannie Mae and Fred- 
die Mac, and that they might potentially become a risk. And as you 
know, there have been eight reports from five different govern- 
ment agencies related to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and each of 
the studies reached a very positive conclusion, which was some- 
what refreshing in view of the problems that we have seen with 
other institutions. 

I think my chairman unfortunately couldn't be here during your 
discussion of the capital standard, but I think the chairman is dead 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



20 

right when he makes the very important distinction between an 
S&L and a financial institution and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

These agencies were founded 2, 3, 4, or 5 years ago with the spe- 
cific mandate related to access. They are very unique agencies, and 
I think the chairman in his bill has enough foresight to indicate 
that there should be a capital standard, which is the reform that 
may or may not be necessary, but it is in there and it is pretty 
solid. And I would think that you could have such a thing as over- 
kill when these institutions have indeed survived eight different re- 
ports and tremendous scrutiny, but we are faced with the task of 
modernizing capital standards and the regulatory system under 
which they were founded, and I think that is what we are trying to 
do in a balanced way. 

Your bill, to be honest with you, is not as strident as I expected 
it to be in view of the fact that in the past the administration has 
wanted to wholesale privatize these agencies. But nonetheless I feel 
that the bill, with some fine-tuning, is pretty much of a balance be- 
tween overkill and having a standard to place them under. And 
whether they like that or not, I think that is the right thing to do. 
So I wanted to compliment the chairman and just comment on 
your exchange with him. 

But you do, in fact, regulate and have oversight, just as Congress, 
of course, has as well. Thank you. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you, Ms. Oakar. Are you ready, Mrs. 
Roukema? 

Mrs. Roukema. No, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Mr. Leach. 

Mr. Leach. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Let me say before we get too enthused about the subcommittee 
draft, it has been my view over the years, quite frankly, that the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development has been more lax 
than stern in regulation of these institutions. Having said that, we 
should take very seriously coming from a lax direction, in this 
Member's view, the statement of Mr. Weicher this morning. 

This is the Department of Housing and Urban Development, 
which the agencies have wanted to have as a regulator in fear of 
having Treasury as a sterner regulator. The Department of Hous- 
ing and Urban Development has told this subcommittee this morn- 
ing that "The standards set in this bill would be a step in the 
wrong direction. Mortgages held in portfolio are much riskier than 
mortgaged-backed securities. They are subject to interest rate risk 
as well as credit risk." 

And I go on, "We question whether the particular test specified 
in the bill are relevant, comprehensive, and adequately address the 
possibility of severe economic shocks to the GSE." In other words, 
what I consider to be an incredibly lax regulator has said that this 
Congress wants to set an even laxer standard, and I think we ought 
to be very concerned. 

Let me just ask a couple questions in this regard because appar- 
ently there are concerns on this subcommittee for the stockholder. 
You know, in the last few years, Fannie Mae stock has tripled, 
management salaries have been fairly impressive. 

D^izedbyGOOgle 



21 

I mean, if you relate them to the Presidents of the United States 
who have much lesser jobs, and I think the subcommittee ought to 
recognize that. 

Now, I would like to ask Mr. Glauber, just to set a perspective, in 
a calculating sense, what do you believe is the subsidy of the U.S. 
Government, that is the U.S. taxpayer, to Fannie Mae per year? 

Mr. Glauber. Well, I can't answer that. We were asked, I think, 
by Mr. Gradison to make a calculation. It was not for Fannie Mae. 
It was for all GSEs. And I think we calculated the number at be- 
tween $2 and $4 billion a year. 

Mr. Leach. And they earned $1 billion last year. The reason I 
raise this, and I wish this subcommittee would think about it seri- 
ously, the U.S. Treasury has calculated that these institutions got a 
$2- to $4-billion subsidy and they made about $1 billion a year, 
maybe a little more. 

That is not impressive, if you get a $2- $4-billion subsidy. It says 
something else. It says that when you compete with that size of 
subsidy, someone is likely to be injured and that somebody has im- 
plications for all of us in this room because that somebody is the 
financial industry that isn't subsidized — the savings and loan in- 
dustry as well as the commercial banking industry for which we 
now have a massive Federal safety net. 

So as these institutions grow in size, taking on an enormously 
larger segment of the market with the Federal subsidy, that hurts 
the earnings stream of people with the Federal safety net. In other 
words, that they may get a $2- to $4-bUlion subsidy by the Treas- 
ury's calculations, but it could be another multi-billion-dollar loss 
to the taxpayer because of the loss to the Federal safety net. 

Is the Treasury prepared to tell us what kind of additional losses 
too generous treatment of these institutions may have for the tax- 
payer because of the Federal safety net to whom they compete? 

Mr. Glauber. We have never made that calculation, but I think 
that the logic of what you said is certainly 

Mr. Leach. Could I request that statistic from the U.S. Treasury 
formally? 

Mr. Glauber. We will endeavor to provide it to you, Mr. Leach. 

Mr. Leach. I would appreciate that. Now, let me go on. What 
percentage of the marketplace does Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae 
now occupy in terms of the secondary market for mortgages? 

[The information referred to can be found in the appendix.] 

Mr. Glauber. I believe the answer is somewhere above 90 per- 
cent, but Mr. Weicher has a better answer than I do. 

Mr. Weicher. In terms of the secondary market, they are essen- 
tially the only securitizers of mortgages. 

Mr. Leach. Without a Federal subsidy, would there be other 
market participants? 

Mr. Glauber. Well, there are oftentimes more than two partici- 
pants in the marketplace, yes. 

Mr. Leach. They have 90 percent, and with the subsidy it is 
pretty hard for other participants to compete; is that not right? 

Mr. Glauber. I think that is a fair statement. 

Mr. Leach. Mr. Weicher, may I ask you and Mr. Glauber, do you 
think the antitrust laws ought to apply to these two institutions? 



Mr. Weigher. Mr. Leach, I am not an antitrust lawyer, and I 
would leave that, I think, to the Justice Department. I would 
simply suggest that these institutions have been created by act of 
Congress to serve specific purposes and been given specific privi- 
leges not available to purely private firms. 

I do not know how that plays against the antitrust statute. 

Mr. Leach. Do you think the antitrust laws should apply or not, 
Mr. Glauber? 

Mr. Glauber. I guess I am not prepared to make a statement on 
that. Again, I would underline what Mr. Weicher has said, that 
Congress has chosen to endow these institutions with special privi- 
leges. 

Mr. Leach. I appreciate that. 

Could I ask for formal considered opinions from both of your in- 
stitutions on whether the anti-trust laws can apply, should apply? 

Mr. Glauber. Of course. 

[The following information was subsequently received.] 
From Mr. Glauber: 

We understand from conversations with representatives of both entities that the 
entities already consider themselves subject to the antitrust laws. 
From Mr. Weicher: 

Legal counsel advises us that FNMA and FHLMC agree that they are subject to 
the antitrust laws. Treasury and HUD lawyers concur with FNMA and FHLMC. 

Mr. Leach. Finally, just let me conclude, because I want to com- 
ment on something the gentle lady from Ohio has mentioned. 

I think she is generally right that the administration has pushed 
in a privatizing direction for these institutions. But interestingly, 
Congress pushed further, and let me stress this: In FIRREA, Con- 
gress turned over control of Freddie Mac to its preferred stockhold- 
ers. Treasury opposed this move and suggested that Freddie should 
be governed by a board, a majority of whom would be Presidential 
employees. 

Since enactment of FIRREA, when Congress gave control of 
Fannie Mac to its shareholders, the number of mortgage securities 
it has issued have declined, and that was one of the great intents of 
Congress, to push them in the mortgage-backed area. 

The fees it has charged on its mortgages have increased, with the 
cost of such increases being picked up by the homebuyer. 

At the same time, the stock and salaries of top management 
have gone up rather substantially. It would appear that the win- 
ners of the new Board plan seem to be Wall street stockholders 
and management, and the losers — to some degree, although to 
some degree they have also helped — the American homebuyer. 

So I would like to ask Treasury, do you think Congress should 
move back in the direction of your previous position of returning 
control of the Board, for example, or Freddie Mac of Presidential 
appointees? 

Mr. Glauber. I think we would continue to adhere to our previ- 
ous position. 

Mr. Leach. So you would argue that if we are going to have a 
new substitute in this direction, we ought to move in that direc- 
tion. 



Well, my own sense is that it ought to be seriously considered, as 
long as they get a Federal subsidy. Maybe give them a choice, take 
Federal out of the name and take away the Federal guarantees if 
they are going to operate as a private sector enterprise. 

Now they have the best of all worlds. They have got the Federal 
guarantee, and the privatizing of profit with the socializing of loss, 
which is what we have had before. 

But in this case it is socializing the loss in a whole spectrum of 
other enterprises, as well as with itself. What we have is a new 
gargantuan structure of two institutions that are competing with a 
Federal subsidy against a larger number of private enterprises. 

Now, speaking personally, I think these are two exceedingly well 
run institutions. And in some ways, they have played a very impor- 
tant role in helping institutions that got over-leveraged to take 
some of their assets off their balance sheet. 

But in the years ahead, they are going to be far more competitive 
and detrimental to the institutions that they have helped in the 
last couple of years. The nature of the industry has changed so 
much in the last few years that I think Congress must recognize we 
have a different beast to look at — to appraise and to overview — and 
that our simple giving in to these two institutions at every turn 
ought to be examined very careful. 

Thank you. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you. 

The last time we had a hearing — and I will urge the gentleman if 
he can to be here when the Chairman and CEOs are here in the 
next panel because the gentleman referred to guarantees and sub- 
sidies, and we had an endless — we had a finely limited time as to 
whether there was an implicit, explicit guarantee or no guarantee. 

So I will be interested in seeing Mr. Glauber's reply to that ques- 
tion. 

Mr. Kennedy, were you waiting to be recognized now? 

Mr. Kennedy. Sure, please, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. 

Mr. Glauber, I was interested, obviously, and concerned about 
the dual role of Fannie Mae and the GSE's in general in terms of 
obviously people are concerned, and I am concerned about the 
safety and soundness. 

I am also concerned about the mission of the organization and 
the fact that as we strengthen safety and soundness, it seems that 
we potentially weaken their ability to address the concerns of the 
poorest and most vulnerable Americans and their hearings needs. 

You say in your testimony that that can still be achieved at rea- 
sonable cost to homebuyers, and I wonder what your notions of rea- 
sonable cost are and whether or not — whether we are talking about 
five basis points, and have you looked at whether you are going to 
really lock out a large section of potential individuals that need the 
assistance through that so-called reasonable cost? 

Mr. Glauber. Mr. Kennedy, this is a discussion you and I had a 
year ago when I was testifying on this issue. And what I would like 
to say again to you is that I don't believe that we have to make a 
choice. 

I really don't believe that safety and soundness has to come at 
the cost of these institutions meeting their mission to homeowners, 
that we really can have it both ways. 



24 

And let me tell you why. It should be possible for these institu- 
tions to raise significant amounts of capital and do so without rais- 
ing their prices. 

What it would mean would be somewhat of a reduction in the 
rate of return that they make. 

Fannie Mae's rate of return on equity today is about 35 percent, 
maybe a little bit less, 33 percent. It could go down some and still 
be high enough that I don't believe that institutions would have 
difficulty in raising capital from the marketplace . 

So I don't think that raising more capital has to come at the ex- 
pense of homeowners who want to use the services of these institu- 
tions. 

Mr. Kennedy. I think you raise a really good point, and whether 
one of the reasons why the capital markets have been so friendly 
to this organization is because of the return that you have indicat- 
ed, and that they are very forgiving in terms of the capital stand- 
ards because of the quick return that they provide. 

And I also wonder whether — you know, you have used phrases, 
Bob, indicating there aren't other competitors. 

I am sorry, I didn't catch how you pronounce your name, sir. 

Mr. Weicher. Weicher. 

Mr. Kennedy. Mr. Weicher has talked about the fact that they 
are subsidized, talked about specific privileges. Under natural cir- 
cumstances we would say, listen, let's let the boards of directors set 
the salaries of the Individuals who work at these organizations. 

But fundamentally, that isn't a real reflection because this isn't 
a market-oriented stock. This is not just determined based on how 
they do in the competitive marketplace. 

This is an organization that is truly subsidized to some degree or 
another by the Federal Government, and it just seems that if what 
you are doing is allowing these individuals, who work in these or- 
ganizations, very high salaries to begin with, many of them are 
based on stock performances, which would lead them to these high 
rates of return that you are talking about, leading the organization 
away from the mission that I think the Congress approves, that 
they are rewarded, in fact, for almost getting away from the mis- 
sion and almost returning — becoming much more of an interest in 
the stock performance than they are in the performance of not 
only the mission, but really the purpose of safety and soundness. 

And so it does seem to me that the compensation packages are, 
in fact, linked to safety and soundness. 

And I wonder — I mean, if you have looked at them, there are 
many people — everybody knows about the $27 million Maxwell 
package. But the fact is that there are literally many people at the 
top echelons of these companies, organizations, I should say, that 
are earning millions of dollars a year. 

They receive $400,000 to $500,000 dollars a year for life without 
any performance designation. They receive very large bonuses. I 
just read yesterday something about the fact that the new fellow— 
the new pac kag e at Freddie indicates that the bonus alone can be 
up to 120 percent of the annual salary, which went up $180,000 last 

It just seems that we are really allowing these organizations to 
get away from the basic principles and that the salaries themselves 



tend to feed just the kind of button that can be pushed to allow 
high rates of return which jack up stock prices, which end up put- 
ting the taxpayer at greater risk. 

I wonder what your comments are. 

Mr. Glauber. Well, Mr. Kennedy, I think most observers would 
agree that these institutions have done a good job, and I guess the 
question you are raising is at what price. 

I would just echo some of the comments you made and the Chair- 
man made earlier that summarily we look to a marketplace to act 
as a restraint of discipline on prices charged, on compensation 
levels set. 

And to some extent here they do, although as you pointed out, 
because of the peculiarities of the marketplace and the dominance 
of these two institutions, it perhaps is a less severe restriction. 

Mr. Kennedy. Do you have a comment, Mr. Weicher? 

Mr. Weicher. No, no, Mr. Kennedy. I think the institutions do 
have opportunities to make high rates of return, given their special 
privileges as established in the charter acts. 

I think that with respect to the compensation for their employ- 
ees, in that market, they have to compete with other firms. 

Mr. Kennedy. There is no question that they have to compete 
with other firms. The question is whether their compensation pack- 
ages are inordinately high. 

Are you saying to me that you don't think a fellow earning $27 
million last year was inordinately highly paid? 

Mr. Weicher. No. I am not addressing the specifics of it. 

Mr. Kennedy. Well, I am addressing the specifics of it 

Mr. Weicher. Well, we do not have the authority 

Mr. Kennedy. I think you ought to be addressing it. You are the 
regulator. You ought to be addressing the specifics. 

Mr. Weicher. We have no authority under the charter act to be 
concerned with the compensation. 

Mr. Kennedy. If you have no authority to look at compensation, 
it seems to me it is time to look at a new regulator. 

Mr. Weicher. That applies under the charter act. Whoever the 
regulator would be would not have that authority. 

Mr. Kennedy. We ought to look at the charter act, I suppose. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Will you yield to me, Mr. Kennedy? 

Mr. Kennedy. Certainly, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Gonzalez. We kind of address that in H.R. 2900. You 
might take a look at it. 

Mr. Kennedy. I have looked at it very closely, Mr. Chairman, 
and I don't believe that it was done in such a fashion as to cap the 
salaries in a reasonable way. 

The fact is that all of the — it would appear on the surface as 
having done so, but it leaves loopholes such as the bonuses, the 
stock options, the dividends, the performance bonds, and the pen- 
sions that allow each of these individuals to go out and make some- 
times triple what would appear to be their salaries on the surface, 
Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Well, then, may 1 suggest that the gentle- 
man prepare an adequate amendment. We have got that power. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



26 

That is what we are supposed to do here. We set the policy. This is 
the first chance we have bad in drafting this bill. 

I would suggest to the gentleman that he prepare an amend- 
ment. 

Mr. Kennedy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Gonzalez. We don't have to change regulators to do 
that. 

Mr. Kennedy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Oh, you are ready, Mrs. Roukema? 

Mrs. Roukema. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

I don't know whether we are going to get any light on this sub- 
ject, but I would like to go back to the subject of capital levels. 

And really it is a follow-up to the problem that Mr. Wiley out- 
lined in that and to some degree, Mr. Baker alluded to with respect 
to the stress test, but it is the question of capital standards and the 
unfettered power of the regulator, which is what I understand 
Treasury really wants to have here, that the regulator would have 
total discretion here. 

I am going to give you a chance to answer the question because I 
am not quite sure what any of us are talking about here. 

You know, because of my introductory statement, because of my 
experience on the Banking Committee, you know, I favor higher 
capital standards and rather strict standards. 

So let me ask the question this way so as to take it out of the 
theoretical about floors and ceilings and what regulators have lati- 
tude to do and what they don't have latitude to do. 

As I understand it, HUD is about to adopt regulations, at least 
they have put them out, put forward some regulations. And within 
lVa months, those regulations are going to go into effect, and 
they — as I understand it also, they are operating under a model 
that I believe Treasury would like to see, that is the authority is up 
to the regulator to forward these regulations. 

And in the regulations, you have a stress test; is that correct? In 
the test you use the end of the year 1990 numbers, as I understand 
it. 

I wanted to ask you specifically, using the stress test and the 
1990 numbers, bow big is the cushion between minimum capital 
and risk-based capital and I guess it is how much is enough for this 
cushion? 

We in the bill have a certain number. I am not sure about that 
number, how valid it is. But Treasury, as I understand it, is refus- 
ing to give us parameters within which to work. 

In any case, I would like both Mr. Weicher and Mr. Glauber to 
address the question in that frame and maybe we can get to some- 
thing that is less theoretical and more specific. 

Mr. Weicher. Mrs. Roukema, with respect to the regulations, we 
are — we have sent proposed regulations. When issued, they would 
be proposed for comment. 

Mrs. Roukema. Those are the regulations I am referring to. 

Mr. Weicher. In those regulations capital standards are set 
within the terms of the charter act. We are proposing to look at 
the capital with respect to the risk of the different lines of activi- 
ties that the GSE's are engaged in. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



27 

But with respect to formally establishing stress tests as the basis 
for establishing a capital standard that is more than what is in the 
charter act, we are talking about using the stress tests in the way 
that Mr. Glauber has been talking about, and we discussed in our 
testimony, and that would be under the new law. 

Mrs. Roukema. But what is the cushion? The question is, using 
the capital standards you have used, what is the cushion? How big 
is the cushion? 

Mr. Weigher. We have not — the capital standards in the existing 
law are set only in terms of standards against the debt of the 
GSEs. The debt applies only — is needed only for the mortgages that 
are held in portfolio, so the capital standard as specified in the law 
is the capital standard against mortgages. 

It is not set against securities. This is one of the problems with 
the capital standard under the present charter acts, one of the 
problems that the administration's proposal is intended to fix. 

Mrs. Roukema. I would ask Mr. Glauber to use that, to perhaps 
fix his own position. 

Are you telling me that under the stress test you have not set a 
cushion figure? 

Mr. Weicher. We are in the process of conducting stress tests 
now, and we intend to be reporting to you on the results of stress 
tests in the next few weeks. 

We have not established a capital standard with a stress test 
under the regulations . 

Mrs. Roukema. But I don't understand, then, why you cannot — 
but you can, using those numbers, and using their methodology, 
define — you will come up with the cushion, no? 

Mr. Weicher. We will come up with a measure of the capital 
that each GSE needs in order to pass a given stress test. 

That can be then compared to the capital that they have, and 
this is what we are now doing. This goes back to a point Mr. Glau- 
ber raised earlier. We don't have specific numbers here to give you. 

Mrs. Roukema. Mr. Glauber, would you allude to that? I mean, 
would you amplify from your perspective, and then using that ra- 
tionale that how do you know what we have in the bill is too weak? 

Mr. Glauber. Let me start with something Mr. Weicher said. 
The regulations, currently permit law, deal only with — on-balance 
sheet debt, not with pass-throughs, not with off-balance sheet guar- 
anteed mortgage-backed securities, called pass-throughs. 

That is precisely one of the problems we have with writing these 
things into law. 

The world changes, and you will wish after you wrote the law 
that you had written it differently. This is a perfect example of 
that problem. 

Second, halfway through your statement you saw me shaking my 
head. I don't think that we want to give unfettered freedom to the 
regulator. 

We are sensitive to your concern that our regulator could run 
amuck. So perhaps the way to do it is to allow the regulator discre- 
tion flexibility within some range, to put a minimum, put a maxi- 
mum. 

Now, you said can we be specific. Let me start by being specific. 
We think that the minimums set in H.R. 2900 are too low. They 



are lower than what we proposed. For Freddie Mac I think they 
are lower by $250 million. We think they are too low. 

We would like to see as a starter that the minimum be raised to 
what we proposed. Over that we say for setting what is called ade- 
quate capital, we would like some discretion, giving the regulator 
discretion is not, you know, uncharted waters. 

In the bill you voted out of committee, the banking bill, you give 
the regulator discretion for setting where zone 1 ends and where 
zone 1 begins. You give the regulator discretion in setting that. So 
this is not something new. 

The question is how much discretion should you give. I agree 
with you, you shouldn't give them complete discretion. It should be 
limited. 

Let's work on how to limit it but still give them enough discre- 
tion. 

Mrs. Roukema. Can we work together on that? 

Mr. Glauber. I would be more man happy to do so. 

Mrs. Roukema. I don't know why this has become such an issue 
that it has forced people to lock horns or we cannot seem to get the 
issue resolved. 

All tight, thank you. 

Mr. Glauber. Absolutely. 

Mrs. Roukema. I think that has been helpful. I hope it has been 
helpful to all of us, and we certainly will accept your offer and con- 
tinue to work on the problem. 

Mr. Glauber. I look forward to it. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Mr. Johnson. 

Mr. Johnson op Texas. I would like to follow up on Ms. Dakar's 
comments about who is regulating. Assuming we can get over the 
argument of capital requirements and that everybody can agree on 
them, can you talk to the safety and soundness regulator, and are 
you comfortable with it being in HUD, or could it be somewhere 
else besides HUD, maybe in the Treasury? 

Mr. Glauber. Oh, it could be indeed somewhere else. We are 
quite comfortable. We think HUD has the expertise in the field. 

What we do think, that the safety and soundness regulators 
should be arm's length, and we think the structure we propose and 
indeed is embodied in H.R. 2900 is an appropriate structure. 

We recognize there could be other structures as well, but we 
liked what we proposed; and we are happy that the subcommittee 
has embodied it in H.R. 2900. 

Mr. Johnson of Texas. I appreciate that. Let me follow up on 
Mrs. Roukema' s suggestion on capital. 

I think her question was — ana I never did hear you answer, is 
why do you think that the number that is in the bill is not right? 

Mr. Glauber. Well, as regards the minimum capital standard, 
we think it is not right because it allows— it designates— that these 
institutions today exceed the minimum standard, and most observ- 
ers think that they need more capital before they meet a minimum 
standard . 

So I guess that is the short answer to why we don't think mini- 
mum is enough. 

Mr. Johnson of Texas. Well, most observers is who? 

Mr. Glauber. GAO, CBO, us, HUD. 



v Google 



29 

Mr. Johnson of Texas. But not the subcommittee? 

Chairman Gonzalez. Many observers. 

Mr. Johnson, will you yield? 

Mr. Johnson of Texas. Certainly. 

Chairman Gonzalez. GAO tells us both organizations are cur- 
rently adequately capitalized. That is their report. See, this is the 
dilemma I hear. But thank you for yielding. 

Mr. Johnson of Texas. Thank you, sir, and thank you for your 
response. 

Mr. Glauber. Let me finish by saying the other concern is not 
with a specific number but again with the process, and this exclu- 
sive reliance on a stress test and a specific period of history in that 
stress test. 

Mr. Johnson of Texas. OK. Thank you. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Mr. Wylie. If the gentleman would yield. 

Mr. Johnson of Texas. Certainly, Mr. Wylie. I have some time 
left. 

Mr. Wylie. GAO says they can be both adequately capitalized. In 
your testimony, I note, Mr. Glauber, you say Fannie and Freddie 
Mac's own internal estimates of their earnings and capital levels 
over the next 3 years indicate they will have no difficulty in meet- 
ing through retained earning the administration's critical capital 
level minimum leverage ratio and any reasonable risk based cap- 
ital level, close quote. 

Now, Fannie and Freddie say your capital standards are too 
high. Could you provide the subcommittee with the so-called inter- 
nal estimates that you used which may indicate why or why not 
they are objecting? 

Mr. Glauber. We would be happy if we could. They were provid- 
ed to us under confidentiality agreements which were specified in 
FIRREA. I think we are not in a position to supply those directly 
to you. Perhaps you would like to take it up directly with Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac. 

Mr. Wylie. So we need to have it released from them? 

Mr. Glauber. We were required to return all that information to 
them because it was given to us under a confidentiality agreement, 
as specified in FIRREA, and have done so. 

Mr. Wylie. Thank you. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Well, thank you very much. I am going to 
ask my colleagues to indulge me for 1 minute so that I can address 
a question here and not expect it to be answered except in writing 
rather than wait until I submit it in writing because — to Mr. 
Weicher. 

We didn't intend to clobber Mr. Glauber, and that is what we 
have ended up doing, and we have ignored not intentionally Mr. 
Weicher. 

Mr. Weicher, from your description of how HUD might run the 
stress test in H.R. 2900, it sounds like you would have lots of dis- 
cretion with respect to the application of that test. 

What additional discretion are you seeking? Would you rather 
use Moody's test than the one in H.R. 2900? 

In your testimony, you state that the amount of capital for oper- 
ations and management risk should be left to the regulator. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



It is, and that was, the intent of our legislation. I wanted to 
make sure that if we were deficient in any way defining that in the 
legislation, we would want to know. We thought that is what we 
were doing, and how would you change the statutory language to 
clarify this particular authority if clarification is needed? 

Mr. Weicheh. Mr. Chairman, I would be glad to answer all those 
questions for you. If we have misread the bill, which, of course we 
have only seen over the last couple days, we would be glad to pro- 
vide you with revised views. 

[The information referred to can be found in the appendix.] 

Chairman Gonzalez. I am fully aware of the fact that both of 
you came here with the fact that the bill was introduced Tuesday, 
so thank you gentlemen once again very much. 

We appreciate your cooperation. 

Mr. Glauber. Thank you for having us. 

Chairman Gonzalez. The next panel consists of Mr. Leland C. 
Brendsel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Federal 
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and Mr. James A. Johnson, 
Chairman and Chief Executive Office of the Federal National 
Mortgage Association. 

Mr. Johnson, while we wait for Mr. Brendsel, he was, of course, 
here earlier, why don't we proceed and recognize you. I saw you 
sitting there and wincing a couple of times, and I think you know 
now how some of us in politics feel when somebody, a commentator 
or some citizen is commenting about us. 

Mr. James Johnson. I hope I wasn't shaking my head too vigor- 
ously. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you for your statement. We are also 
cognizant of the fact that we just introduced H.R. 2900, but I think 
you may have had the benefit of the main thrust of that bill before 
its introduction. 

In any event, suppose we recognize you, and then advise that 
your testimony as you gave it to us in writing will be in the record 
exactly as you gave it to us. You may proceed as you deem best. 

STATEMENT OF JAMES A. JOHNSON, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EX- 
ECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE 
ASSOCIATION 

Mr. James Johnson. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 
I appreciate the opportunity to appear before you again this 
morning to discuss the best way to modernize the capital require- 
ments in oversight of Fannie Mae to protect the taxpayers while 
maintaining and further enhancing Fannie Mae's ability to serve 
housing. 

I most particularly appreciate the opportunity to congratulate 
you on the introduction of II.R. 2900, your thoughtful and well- 
crafted proposal, cosponsored by Mrs. Roukema and Mr. Wylie. 

H.R. 2900 is an outstanding contribution, in my judgment, in a 
number of respects. First, it would establish for Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac a risk-based capital standard that is the most modern, 
most progressive, and most analytically correct standard in any 
legislative or regulatory capital regime. 

3,g,:iz e d byGOOgle 



Second, by specifying the parameters of that standard, the bill 
takes a stand and a firm stand and makes that absolutely critical 
policy decision of just how risk and housing should be balanced, 
which, after all, is what this exercise is all about. 

Finally, the bill sets in place a regulatory oversight, supervision, 
and enforcement approach that is strong yet sensible, and general- 
ly reinforces the genius of Congress' 1969 decision to make Fannie 
Mae a private company with private market management and in- 
centives. 

We are very pleased with many of the key provisions of the pro- 
posed legislation. When I last appeared before you in late May, 
Treasury has just delivered its draft bill. I described to you at that 
time my concerns with that bill. I am very pleased that many of 
the specific issues we raised at that time have been creatively and 
effectively addressed in H.R. 2900. 

In 4 years in particular H.R. 2900 is a vast improvement over the 
Treasury draft. The First I have already mentioned. Instead of the 
open-ended regulatory discretion of the Treasury bill, H.R. 2900 es- 
tablishes a specific capital standard. 

Second, the risk-based capital standard in H.R. 2900 is a com- 
plete and specific stress test, not simply a list of risks that the com- 
pany must capitalize for, as in the Treasury bill. The test is dynam- 
ic. It will be a leading indicator of potential problems. 

For example, if interest rates rise in a quarter, the interest rate 
requirement will be recalculated and more capital will be required. 
The same is true if rates fall. If the increase in home prices slows 
down, more capital will be required for credit risk if the company 
takes more credit risk by, for example, increasing its duration gap, 
more capital would be required. 

If riskier loans are purchased, more capital would also be re- 
quired. Third, H.R. 2900 provides for appropriate regulatory struc- 
ture. Professional and competent oversight is essential if both tax- 
payers and housing are to benefit. Unlike the Treasury bill, H.R. 
2900 makes this a real point by authorizing hiring outside civil 
service limits. 

Fourth, the supervisory and enforcement powers in H.R. 2900 are 
specifically geared to the nature, scope, and unique position of 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and unlike the Treasury bill, are not 
simply a cut and paste version of Treasury's bank reform proposal. 

Within the context of this very favorable reaction, I want to call 
the attention of the subcommittee to 4 areas that do cause us con- 
cern at Fannie Mae. First, section 201(a)3, which gives the capital 
regulator open-ended discretion to increase the capital requirement 
for management and operations risk over and above that already 
embedded and interest rate risk tests; Second, sections 3(6), 121(f), 
121(k), and 201(a)4, which, combined, could have a paralyzing effect 
on product innovation, even by a well-capitalized company; third, 
section 121(k), which by targeting a percentage of dividends for the 
purpose of making contributions to low-income rental housing, 
could reduce Fannie Mae's effectiveness in the multifamily housing 
area, as well as undermine investor confidence; and, four, section 
121(e), which would destroy the ability of Fannie Mae's board of di- 
rectors to recruit and retain the best managers for one of the larg- 
est financial institutions in the world. 

3,g,:iz e d byGOOgle 



We strongly urge the subcommittee to delete the clause section 
201(a)3 that would allow the Director to increase or decrease the 
management and operations risk requirement from the require- 
ment at 20-percent of interest rate and capital risk, about $800 mil- 
lion currently for Fannie Mae, which is stated in the bill. 

This open-ended discretion undermines the uncertainty of the 
credit and interest rate risk stress tests and is a serious mistake for 
three reasens. 

The amount in the bill is more than enough to cover the type of 
management risks it is possible to capitalize against. Two, if the 
risk-based capital level is left open-ended, Fannie Mae will have 
great difficulty managing our business so we can meet both our re- 
sponsibilities to housing and our capital requirements, and, three, 
it allows the regulator to undercut the choices that have been 
made on capital levels in the credit and interest rate sections. 

Our second area of concern rises out of two provisions that would 
require prior approval by two different parte of HUD with conflict- 
ing mandates before Fannie Mae could undertake any new product 
or program. 

Moreover, those provisions interact with a third, under which 
the Secretary would be required to require a portion of Fannie 
Mae's business to be for low- and moderate-income housing in a 
manner that could lead to total paralysis. 

To maintain Fannie Mae as a strong, innovative, flexible private 
market provider of housing finance for all, these well-intentioned 
provision must be modified. They are unnecessary, I think, for a 
properly capitalized company. 

Section 121(k) of the bill would require that 20 percent of Fannie 
Mae's dividend payments are contributed for acquisition, construc- 
tion, and rehabilitation of low-income rental housing. Fannie Mae 
wholeheartedly supports in both word and deed the goal of doing 
more for low-income rental housing. 

As drafted, however, this provision is a serious mistake, and in 
our opinion should be deleted. We currently serve over 1 million 
families in multifamUy housing under our standard and FHA pro- 
grams. In 1990 alone, we financed over 104,000 rental units. Ap- 
proximately 80 percent of the households served through that mul- 
tifamUy program have incomes below 80 percent of the median for 
their area. 

In some places, Baltimore for one, the average unit is affordable 
to those with less than 50 percent of the median income. These are 
the types of programs in which Fannie Mae excels, the types of 
programs that use our strength to tap the capital markets to help 
those in greatest needs. 

We are now focused on expanding our effort further to serve 
those with greatest needs by making investments to support low- 
income housing on terms that could not be accommodated under 
standard programs or even our special low- and moderate income 
programs, such as gap financing and pre-development capital. 

We will be able to expand our reach to even more low-income 
tenants. Section 121(k) of the bill, with the 20-percent contribution 
requirement for low-income rental housing not only would put 
Fannie Mae in the subsidy rather than in the financing business, 

3,g,:iz e d byGOOgle 



but by penalizing shareholders would harm our ability to serve the 
entire housing market. 

I don't think that is the best way to get the best from Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac. Finally. I believe it is essential that section 
121(e) of the bill be substantially amended. 

As drafted, that section would limit compensation for Fannie 
Mae management to that of Freddie Mac management as of July 1, 
1991. This provision would totally undercut the Fannie Mae board 
of directors' ability to attract and retain the best people to run a 
$400 billion company safely and profitably while accomplishing our 
housing mission. 

The Fannie Mae Board of Directors has long-followed the princi- 
ples of comparability of pay with payment for similar functions at 
similar corporations, pay for performance, and no pay for nonper- 
formance. 

Mr. Chairman, in May I was able to bring you up to date on both 
Fannie Mae's sound financial condition and our impact on housing 
for those all across the income spectrum. Since that time, we re- 
ported our 14th quarter of record earnings. Capital reached $5.6 
billion, including $650 million of loan loss reserves, meaning that 
for the first time we meet the taxpayer protection capital stand- 
ards we have developed for ourselves with Paul Volcker announced 
well over a year ago. 

We announced our intention to purchase up to $2 billion in FHA 
insured reverse annuity mortgages, serving 25,000 elderly house- 
holds, and a $100 million demonstration program in partnership 
with the Farmers Home Administration to make mortgage credit 
more available to low- and moderate-income households in rural 
areas. 

Our standard business has reached record volumes. In the first 6 
months of the year, we purchased more than $16 billion of mort- 
gages and securitized an additional $45 billion for a total business 
volume of $61 billion during the first half of this year. 

Fannie Mae is working very well for housing and for the Ameri- 
can people. H.R. 2900 is a major contribution to making certain 
that Fannie Mae continues this record of success. We look forward 
to working with you, Mr. Chairman, and the rest of the subcommit- 
tee to make it even better. 

Thank you very much for your attention. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. James A. Johnson can be found 
in the appendix.] 

Chairman Gonzalkz. Thank you very much. 

Mr. Brendsel. 

STATEMENT OF LELAND C. BRENDSEL, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORT- 
GAGE CORPORATION 

Mr. Brendsel. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you for the 
opportunity to discuss H.R. 2900. I would like to commend you, Mr. 
Chairman, and Representatives Wylie and Roukema for introduc- 
ing an innovative bill, one that recognizes the unique characteris- 
tics and risks of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. 



34 

It is fitting that you should sponsor this hallmark approach to 
regulation, for you also were present at the creation of Freddie 
Mac nearly 21 years ago. We are a great congressional success 
story, one for which you and your subcommittee deserve special 
credit. 

It is a story about a rare public-private partnership that works, 
and it works without taxpayer funds. Indeed, we paid over $1 bil- 
lion in Federal income taxes over the past 4 years. 

Also, it works because, as all studies indicate, we do so without 
any meaningful risk to taxpayers. But most importantly, this 
public-private partnership has meant that we have helped provide 
affordable housing to millions of Americans across this Nation, in 
small communities as well as large. 

Mr. Brendsel. Your legislation reflects the conclusion of seven 
studies by five government agencies, including the Department of 
Treasury conclusion that Freddie Mac is well-managed, financially 
sound, and presents no imminent threat to the taxpayer. 

Indeed, Secretary Glauber has said before Congress this year, 
that the current risk to the taxpayer is de minimis. Freddie Mac 
opened its books to all of these agencies studying us, and we re- 
ceived a clean bill of health. 

My perspective is if bank and thrift institutions, or certainly 
their insurance funds, had opened their books to the scrutiny of 
five independent government agencies, I wonder if the taxpayer 
would have more money in their pockets today? 

Your legislation incorporates state-of-the-art tools to ensure Fred- 
die Mac's and Fannie Mae's continued sound operations. 

Let me give you three examples. First, your inclusion of market- 
to-market accounting to monitor the financial condition of Freddie 
Mac and Fannie Mae. Nowhere else in financial regulation do we 
have this done today. 

A second innovative approach for the first time specifies capital 
requirements to cover interest rates. It has been over 10 years 
since sky-rocketing interest rates nearly wrecked the thrift indus- 
try, and yet the Treasury itself has yet to seriously recommend 
capital requirements to reflect adjustments in interest rates for 
other financial institutions. 

Third, an innovative approach here is that it uses dynamic cap- 
ital requirements, one which incorporates real-world experience 
such as Texas in the early 19S0's, rather than simple ratios pulled 
out of the thin air. 

To put your legislation in perspective, if these same capital tests 
were applied to a typical thrift or bank holding a portfolio of pri- 
marily fixed rate residential mortgages, they would have to hold 
twice the amount of capital currently required under the Treas- 
ury's own risk-based capital standards. 

These are indeed tough capital standards embodied in this legis- 
lation. Clearly, your approach of measuring capital is light years 
ahead of existing regulations covering other institutions in this 
area. 

Before commenting further on your proposal, let me make a 
couple observations. First, Treasury's proposal is a black box. Nei- 
ther you nor the taxpayer know what it really means, or if it could 
be effectively implemented. 



35 

Second, Treasury's proposal also fails because it proposes to uti- 
lize arbitrarily high minimum leverage ratios. 

Third, Treasury's proposal includes broad powers for the regula- 
tor to unjustifiably intrude in the day-to-day operations of two well- 
capitalized entities. Certainly, the myth that government regula- 
tors know best was exploded during the past decade. 

As I indicated, Mr. Chairman, your legislation is an impressive 
leap forward. It puts you in the forefront of financial institution 
regulation. At the same time, I have several suggestions about how 
it can be improved. 

I will discuss only a few key suggestions here today, and am 
happy to share additional thoughts with you and your staff in the 
future. 

First, with regard to setting capital requirements. This legisla- 
tion, H.R. 2900, requires that an additional amount of capital equal 
to 20 percent of the requirement for interest rate and credit risk be 
held to cover management and operations risk. 

Twenty percent is too high, frankly, given the very tough capital 
requirements for interest rate and credit risk. Even worse, the reg- 
ulator would have the authority to go above the 20-percent require- 
ment without any justification, leaving us exposed to the vagaries 
and arbitrariness and the black box of regulation. Such discretion 
is unwarranted. 

Second, with regard to other regulatory discretion, in the area of 
new products, for example, the proposal incorporates a very cum- 
bersome system of bureaucratic involvement in new program and 
products. 

I believe as long as we are adequately capitalized, there should 
be no preapproval authority for the regulator to intervene in the 
business decisions, as long as we meet our capital standards. 

Also, in particular, the proposal overrides the ability of our 
Board of Directors to attract the bestpeople by preventing us from 
offering market base compensation. There is no substitute for good 
people, as I am sure we all agree. Tying our hands in this area 
could prove to be very expensive and costly in the long run to our 
safety and soundness, and to achieving the missions of the compa- 
ny. 

A third area of suggestions is with regard to examinations and 
assessments. Good regulations require good people to enforce them 
as well. The proposal, I think, unnecessarily restricts the Director 
from using the most competent personnel for its oversight of Fred- 
die Mac and Fannie Mae. 

I believe the regulators should be encouraged to draw on the re- 
sources of experienced, professional examiners elsewhere in the fi- 
nancial regulatory system such as those of the Federal Reserve 
Board of New York. 

Also, I believe it is appropriate that Freddie Mac should pay for 
these examinations. However, any assessments should be capped to 
cover only the cost associated with the regulation and examination 
to prevent the unnecessary growth of a new regulatory bureaucra- 
cy. 

Now, a fourth area of suggestionsis with regard to the low- 
income rental housing provisions. Freddie Mac's 20-year history 
provides a proud record of assisting many Americans m their pur- 



36 

suit of affordable housing. The availability of capital in all markets 
has significantly enhanced the home ownership and rental opportu- 
nities for all in this country. 

Our long-standing commitment to this mission results in a mort- 
gage market that works today, when other sectors have experi- 
enced credit shortages. I know you are aware of our successes of 
our standard programs, but they should not overshadow our special 
commitment, also, to low- and moderate-income housing. 

For example, we have committed $3 billion through 1992 alone to 
invest in special low- and middle-income programs. 

Freddie Mac is strongly committed to its mission of financing af- 
fordable housing and I think our record demonstrates that. From 
that vein, I am concerned with a few sections in the rental housing 
program section of this bill. 

The first is the requirement that Freddie Mac set aside an 
amount equal to 20 percent of its dividend payments to rental 
housing fund. This is, in effect, another tax and results in a triple 
tax on the dividend payments of Freddie Mac. 

We rely on funds raised in the capital markets to provide mort- 
gage financing opportunities to homebuyers and renters nation- 
wide. We rely on the confidence of investors in our mortgage- 
backed securities, as well as our stockholders. 

The approach taken in this legislation could jeopardize the confi- 
dence of investors and threaten our ability to access the capital 
markets and accomplish our mission. I believe the provision in this 

E>roposal ultimately will not maximize the benefits we can bring to 
ow- and middle-income housing. 

The second feature of the legislation in this area would signifi- 
cantly alter the public-private balance by allowing HUD to micro- 
manage our pricing decisions. Simply at the implementation level, 
I believe it is unworkable to allow the Secretary of HUD to review 
all the pricing decisions of Freddie Mac since we change prices 
every day. 

Mr. Chairman, in conclusion, I have outlined a few areas of sug- 
gestions. However, I want also to reemphasize that your legislative 
proposal is a major step forward in creating a state-of-the-art, so- 
phisticated regulatory approach with an equally innovative Freddie 
Mac and Fannie Mae. 

In this way, we can ensure a continuation of our great story as a 
continuous source of private capital, financing a great public mis- 
sion. 

Mr. Chairman, I would be pleased to answer any questions you 
or any other member of the subcommittee may have. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Brendsel can be found in the ap- 
pendix.] 

Chairman Gonzalez. Well, first, let me thank you and Chairman 
Johnson for your very kind remarks. 

I think, as I said earlier to the two previous witnesses, we basi- 
cally want to achieve the same goal, and I think your statements 
and recommendations have been both constructive and very help- 
ful. 

I think you have pointed out some things that will cause us to 
pause and look over. Now, specifically to both of the witnesses, I 
wonder if you can comment on the Treasury's assertion that re- 



37 

quiring you to raise additional capital would have no effect on 
market rates. 

I think the question there is, how would you raise additional cap- 
ital? 

Mr. James Johnson. Would you like me to start, Mr. Chairman? 

Chairman Gonzalez. Yes, sir. 

Mr. James Johnson. When we were here on May 29, we talked 
specifically about the relationship between the fees we charged and 
the mortgage rates that individual mortgage payers would have to 
pay. Treasury's point seems to have to do with the ability of the 
organizations themselves to absorb substantially lower returns on 
equities and still be able to attract the kind of investment that 
they attract today. 

Obviously, this entire system works, because we are able to at- 
tract very high levels of private investment. If you look at Fannie 
Mae's return on equity — this is certainly not what shareholders 
get, this is the return on equity in the company, Fannie Mae's 
return on equity over the last 5 years has been approximately 24 
percent. 

If you look at the 50 largest companies in America, they have ex- 
actly the same return on equity during that time period. One is 
24.4 and one is 24.6 percent. So, if you are an investor and you are 
trying to choose which company you will invest in, you want to 
invest in one that is competitive with with the general return of 
large companies, similar to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

We don t accept the Treasury assertion that we could have a 
rapid decrease in our return of equity and still attract shareholder 
investment the way we do today. We think that is a misperception 
of the way the market would be likely to work. 

Now, return on equity is something that changes a good deal as 
your know from considering a lot of banks and thrifts over the last 
few years. Sometimes it is high, sometimes it is low. 

If you look at the range for those top 50 companies, the range is 
from zero to 37 percent. It is not that they are all exactly hovered 
in the middle. That will change for us, too. It is already changing 
for us. 

Our return on equities have gone down rather substantially as 
we increased our capital. We are continuing to increase our capital 
at quite a rapid rate. I think the Treasury believes that there is a 
great deal more flexibility and give in this system than there is, 
and I think over time, it will be critically important that we 
achieve a strong return on equity to continue to attract private in- 
vestment. 

So I don't believe they have calculated the relationship between 
the investor concerns and the need for capital properly. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Mr. Brendsel, do you have any comment? 

Mr. Brendsel. Probably the simplest and most direct way to re- 
spond to a comment like that by the Treasury is to remind Treas- 
ury that there is no free lunch. In essence, these companies work 
because we are able to attract capital and maintain the confidence 
of investors, and we do so by operating in a safe and sound way 
and providing a fair competitive return on their money. 

Certainly to the extent that the company continues to grow and 
invest additional capital, we must pay shareholders a fair return 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



on their money. And as a result, any increase in capital require- 
ments that is excessive — since clearly we have already demonstrat- 
ed through these studies that any increase above the current levels 
that the companies maintain in relation to the risk would be a tax 
on shareholders — would be unwarranted. 

Chairman Gonzalez. I am going to make a couple of observa- 
tions. We have a notice call of a recorded vote, but we will leave in 
a few minutes. 

You did, I think, make a valid point with respect to the conserva- 
torship in a dire case, and the conservator being RTC. In your 
statement, Mr. Johnson, you point out you have $45 billion in secu- 
rities. 

Mr. James Johnson. Mortgage-backed securities. 

Chairman Gonzalez. I noticed that RTC has decided to go that 
route, and interestingly went to the international market. And 
being that RTC has such a substantial REO or portfolio out there, 
how do you see that as a sort of a hidden liability as to potential 
mischief in the future? 

Mr. James Johnson. The key to the Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac mortgage-backed securities program is the underlying quality 
of the asset. That is what makes the difference in all of the mort- 
gages we sell to the marketplace or we securitize for the market- 
place. That is because of the underwriting standards we have, we 
have very, very few losses on the mortgages that are in the securi- 
ties that are issued through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

As a matter of fact, what we do in those securities, Mr. Chair- 
man, is guarantee the timely payment of principal and interest on 
those mortgages so that we are responsible for the ones that we put 
in the mortgage-backed securities. That is one of the reasons why 
risk-based capital standards are appropriate for Fannie mae and 
Freddie Mac and that is our experience with the risks that we take 
has been extraordinarily good. 

In terms of what the RTC is doing with their direct issuance of 
mortgage-backed securities, they have just started that program. 
They are in some cases dealing with products we would not deal 
with that we would not find suitable to securitize through Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac. I think we are all watching closely how that 
will evolve. . 

If the underlying mortgages they are selling are strong and simi- 
lar to the ones that are part of the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 
mortgage-backed securities, I believe their program will go very 
well. 

The problem the RTC has had over the last several years — I tes- 
tified before Congressman Vento specifically with the RTC Task 
Force on this point. They have had substantial documentation 
problems on a lot of those mortgages and originally the RTC was 
unwilling to follow market practice and provide buyers with loan 
representations and warranties. 

Chairman Gonzalez. We must go and afford the Members a 
chance to vote. 

Mr. Vento. Mr. Chairman, if you would yield to me briefly, this 
testimony from the Fannie Mae and others came well over a year 
ago. Furthermore, I wonder what the capital standards are that 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



the RTC has in terms of what they are doing. Obviously they have 
got us behind them. 

Chairman Gonzalez. I think there — Mr. Vento, if you would 
yield to me, I think the disturbing factor is that you have a con- 
stantly decreasing value, deteriorating value in all of those assets 
and in fact the Secretary, the chairman of RTC reported just over 
the weekend that that loss was in the range of 40 percent. 

Anyway, we better go vote. 

[Recess.] 

Ms. Oakas [presiding]. The subcommittee will come to order. 

The chairman has asked if I would proceed. He is on his way 
back, but he has asked to have me proceed. And Mr. Wylie was 
next in questions. He is not here, so I will turn to Mr. Leach. 

Mr. Leach. Thank you, 

Well, Madame Chair, first, let me say that I think the U.S. Con- 
gress, as well as the public at large, can consider themselves very 
fortunate that we have two people running these institutions that 
are as able as they are. 

Mr. Brendsel and Mr. Johnson, I think that is clear-cut From 
our perspective, we must ask a given number of questions, and 
from your perspective, you must take a different position? 

For example, I just cannot see for the life of me anything wrong 
with pressing for higher capital, although if you run an institution, 
you prefer to leverage as much as you can, and that is extraordi- 
narily understandable. 

We have two different approaches to capital. The administration 
suggests a little stronger approach, the subcommittee approach is a 
little weaker. I give my benefit of the doubt as a representative of 
the taxpayer to higher ones. I can understand where the two of you 
want to represent your stockholders and want a little greater lever- 
age. 

I want to say that is a difference of perspective, but it is almost 
inevitable. Yes, sir. 

Mr. James Johnson. Could I respond to that? 

Mr. Leach. Yes, sir. 

Mr. James Johnson. Let me make two quick points. I didn't 
mean to interrupt your statement by any means. Fannie Mae has 
by no means taken a position that less capital is better. As a 
matter of fact, in 1990 and 1991 we will add about $2.5 billion to 
our capital from earnings. 

Mr. Leach. That is wonderful. 

Mr. James Johnson. May I make a second point? That is that 
one of the problems that we have in this entire discussion — and I 
am sorry that Mr. Wylie and others aren't here, Mrs. Roukema, to 
hear this particular exchange because I know it is something very 
much on their minds— — 

One of the problems, Congressman Leach, is that over the course 
of the last 2 years of Treasury and HUD taking a look at Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac, neither institution, neither Treasury nor 
HUD, has ever come forward with either a capital number or a 
capital approach that would allow us to compare either our inter- 
nal approach with theirs or the subcommittee's approach with 
theirs. 



40 

What you say about there being a difference of opinion really is 
not a difference of opinion at the moment. Because from HUD and 
Treasury at the moment there has not been an opinion about what 
a proper level of capital should be. 

I think what Secretary Glauber said this morning was quite sig- 
nificant. That is, he imagined a circumstance in which they would 
do the work on capital which would lead them to the position 
where they could Bay a number that would be too much. He has 
introduced the concept at some level there is too much capital. 

I think if they were able to be forthcoming and say this is the 
range we are looking at that would be an enormous contribution to 
this debate. What is missing at the moment there is a committee 
position on adequate capital. There is a Fannie Mae position on 
adequate capital and Freddie Mac position on adequate capital, but 
there really isn't a Treasury position. 

Mr. Leach. 1 will make that a formal request from the Treasury. 

Let me go on for a moment. I once talked to one of the gentle- 
men who created Freddie Mac. He indicated to me that Freddie 
Mac was intended as a government experiment to last 3 or 4 years 
and be spun off to the private sector. In your testimony, Mr. Brend- 
sel, you indicate that there is a nice marriage between public and 
private. Why not go completely private, or, if it is such a nice mar- 
riage, why don't we have instead of just the two relatively similar 
institutions, why don't we have 10 or 12? How would you respond? 

Mr. Brendsel. With regard to the second of the two suggestions, 
that certainly is a decision that Congress always can make since 
they are government-chartered corporations. 

I would say that,, in fact, there are many things to look at in the 
structure of GSEs that should be considered with regard to the 
structure of the financial system in general. Why have these com- 
panies worked so well? Well, there are some fundamental things 
about us. 

First of all, we have a very well-defined charter restricting us to 
participate in the market inequality assets, residential home loans. 

Mr. Leach. I object to that. I don't think we are talking exactly 
to my question. Why don't you let me go on for a little bit more. 

There has been a pretty lousy article written about you, and as I 
understand Freddie's position is it lacks validity. I saw something 
from Shearson — a good neutral investment bank— that holds your 
side of that argument. One of the aspects of your whole institution 
is that your reserve for losses appears to be fairly low. It is 0.12 
percent. As I understand it, Citicorp's single family delinquency 
rate last year was 4.8 percent or at least at the end of March. Are 
you doing that much of a better job than Citicorp? 

Mr. Brendsel. We are doing that much better job than Citicorp. 

Mr. Leach. As I understand it, Chase had 0.55 percent losses and 
looks like it hasn't done as well as it should, but you have done 
four times better than Chase and, according to this article, about 
40 times better than Citicorp. Is that correct? In your loan losses? 

Mr. Brendsel. Probably about right. Our loan losses relative to 
the amount of loans in our portfolio is .05 percent, five basis points 
on an annual basis. Significantly below the industry average. 

Mr. Leach. That is extremely impressive. One of the questions 
we have to ask ourselves is: Is the past a good gauge of the future, 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



41 

and is it always relevant, especially as you change your mix in 
what you participate in? Do you think that gauge can be counted 
on in the future? 

Mr. Bbendsel. As long as Congress restricts our charter to pur- 
chase only investment quality residential mortgages it is a very 
good gauge for the future. Specifically, we have got a vast amount 
of data and experience on 6 to 7 million home loans across the 
nation. 

Mr. Leach. My impression is you have done a good job. It is also 
my impression that if we take the thrift issue as well as the bank' 
ing issue across the country there has been a bit of a breakdown in 
the last half decade or so about borrower accountability to lending 
institutions. It looks as if losses are going up throughout the finan- 
cial industry, but it hasn't applied to you, and I am impressed with 
that 

But as a legislator I have to say possibly it will come to apply to 
you. It appears people have been lying about their income and 
there are other sorts of circumstances. 

Anyway, my time has expired. I just want to raise that. I am not 
sure one institution will always be going totally against the trend 
on asset quality. Maybe you can continue it, maybe you cannot. If 
you can't, you do need more capital. 

Mr. Bbendsel. First of all, we are not the only institution out 
there with excellent asset quality. Our friendly competitor sitting 
next to me has an outstanding performance on their portfolio as 
well. 

The genius of H.R. 2900's capital standards is, in fact, that it is 
dynamic. It looks to experience. In fact, I think in previous conver- 
sations with you, Congressman, I have indicated that we have been 
employing stress test kind of analysis for evaluation for several 
years. We have used the Great Depression to analyze our portfolio. 
H.R. 2900 looks at the worst case since World War II. 

We now have a lot of experience, for example, with the Texas 
loans. H.R. 2900 assumes that Texas, the experience there in the 
early 1980's, would occur nationwide, that in every community one 
out of four low downpayment mortgages would default. This pre- 
sents serious credit risks and that is the amount of capital we 
would be required to support. 

Ms. Oakar. Mr. Leach s time has long expired. We do have other 
Members who have been here since 10 who want to ask questions. I 
would appreciate it if we can proceed and if the answers could be 
relatively short as well — just because some of the Members have to 
leave and they want to ask you questions, including myself. 

Mr. Brendsel. I apologize. 

Ms. Oakar. Not at all. 

I know Mr. Johnson wanted to respond. I will give you 1 minute 
to respond. 

Mr. James Johnson. Let me try to be very quick. 

Congressman Leach, earlier in the session you talked about $2 
billion to $4 billion subsidy that came to Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac. Let me just 

Ms. Oakar. That was going to be my question so don't ask that 
on my time as a question. 



42 

Mr. Brendsel in his testimony indicated that this program does 
not cost the taxpayer anything, and Mr. Leach did mention the 
subsidy angle, and the Chairman indicated he was going to give 
you a chance to respond — you in the plural sense. Why don't you 
respond to that? Who is right? Is this a subsidized Federal housing 
program or is it more correct to say HUD is where the federally 
subsidized program is and you are in this quasi-government public/ 
private partnership? Do you want to respond? 

Mr. James Johnson. This is certainly not a subsidized Federal 
housing program. In the course of the last 2 years of having every- 
body study us, one of the things that OMB and CBO focused on was 
the great efficiency with which Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 
transferred what they interpreted to be the subsidy directly to 
homeowners. This is not a subsidy to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
This is not something that comes to us that we keep in anyway. 
This is a subsidy that is passed through to us homeowners all over 
America. 

If you look in any paper you will see people whose mortgages are 
able to be purchased 

Mr. Leach. Madam Chair, may I have 10 seconds to respond? 

Ms. Oakab. Sure. 

Mr. Leach. I basically agree with that, Mr. Johnson, with some 
exceptions. Twenty-seven million dollar severance pay is not a sub- 
sidy to a homeowner, and that is a scandal that your institution 
must bear, period. And I can sympathize with the wonderful 

Ms. Oakar. Let me reclaim the time now because, really and 
truly, other Members have to go on. 

I think your point has been made, but I personally was under the 
impression that when you talked about a Federal subsidy you were 
talking about Federal subsidy to the agency, and, obviously, that is 
not the case. 

Let me ask a question now about salaries, because I think we 
should hit the issue head on. I did the amendments regarding 
FIRREA and salaries and making them comparable. I am also the 
author of the pay equity legislation which passed very overwhelm- 
ingly in the House and failed to pass in the Senate, but we are 
doing GAO studies on that issue. 

In addition, many of us — some of us on this subcommittee — are 
very concerned about women and minorities being in top slots, par- 
ticularly when it is a government sponsored program and founded 
by the government and the Congress. 

Tell me about these top executives in terms of who is who. Can 
you give me any description of the women and minorities that are 
m the upper echelon? I really — I am concerned, obviously, about 
the clerks and typists and secretaries, and I think they — I hope 
their salaries are not undervalued because that is a very impor- 
tant — those are important positions and, frequently, they are un- 
dervalued. But, Mr. Johnson, would you tell us a little bit about 
the top people in Fannie Mae? 

Mr. James Johnson. I would be happy to. The top minority 
person in Fannie Mae is the vice chairman of the company. The 
top woman employee of Fannie Mae is the executive vice president, 
secretary and general counsel, Carol Bernstein. We have just re- 
ceived some very significant awards for the number of women who 



43 

have been put in very key management positions in Fannie Mae. 
You look at our entire top management group, between 250 and 
300 people, about 34 percent of that group are made up of women. 

We have a pretty good record as well — I think a quite good 
record as well with minorities. Thirty-seven percent of our overall 
work force is made up of minorities, and 14 percent of those mi- 
norities were promoted within the last year. 

So, you know, we always have more to do in that arena, but I 
think both in terms of senior officers, other officers, management 
level employees, we have a pretty good record. 

Ms. Oakar. If I went over to Fannie Mae I would be personally 
able to witness this cosmopolitan work force that is reflective of 
our society which very seldom is the case. I think most of you will 
agree with that. 

And I have to tell you, as hard as I try to get RTC to tell us 
(Maxine Waters and I), we can't get statistics on that, and I am 
very disconcerted about that because I was the one, with the Chair- 
man's able assistance, who did all those amendments relative to 
making sure there was parity in the work force. 

But I am also concerned when you give statistics like 34 percent. 
And I want to be assured, even though that doesn't mirror the 
female population which is 53 percent, and minorities added on 
would virtually be overwhelming, it appears to be better than a lot 
of agencies or a lot of financial institutions. 

I once tried to get a GAO report done on where the executives 
were financial — maybe if they had more women and minorities we 
wouldn't have had all these failures, what do you think about that? 

You are doing pretty well with people in the upper echelon, and 
I have no problem with paving people what is the market value, 
which a lot of people on this subcommittee feel is very important, 
as long as you represent a cross section of individuals and are able 
to examine their talents. 

Mr. Brendsel, would you like to respond to that question? 

Mr. Brendsel. Certainly, Congresswoman. Overall, excluding 
clerical people, we have about 50 percent women and minorities at 
Freddie Mac. But more specifically with regard to the top woman 
in Freddie Mac, she is the general counsel and secretary to the 
board of directors and a key advisor to me on matters related to 
legislation and everything else at Freddie Mac. 

Mb. Oakar. Is she paid comparably to all these other executive 
types or is the salary a lot lower? 

Mr. Brendsel. Since she is sitting in the audience that might be 
a difficult question for me to answer. 

Ms. Oakar. I am not interested in knowing 

Mr. Brendsel. She is paid comparably in relation to other Fred- 
die Mac executives. She, like our other executives, is being moved 
up to market compensation. We have been below market because 
of the history of compensation at Freddie Mac. We are trying to get 
her, as well as some other key executives, to market compensation 
before we lose them. 

Mr. Vento. Would Madam Chair yield? 

Ms. Oakar. Yes. 

Mr. Vento. Would that be above the civil service? 

Mr. Brendsel. Yes. 



v Google 



44 

Ms. Oakar. In civil service, women and minorities are in the last 
five rungs of a 17-rung-levcl GS scale, and that has not been 
changed since 1921. So I am not really proud of the manner in 
which agencies — Federal agencies — move women and minorities 
up, let me tell you. And if that is true — and you can be sure I am 
going to be looking at it — then you are to be congratulated. 

One last question which you don't have to answer in detail be- 
cause my time has expired. I was very interested — you have done 
some great things — both of you — in my State of Ohio relative to 
low- and moderate-income, particularly in the last 2 or 3 years. 
And it is a real success, and I wanted to congratulate you. 

I wondered if you could further document your agencies — institu- 
tions' commitment for the record. You have some of it in yours, 
Mr. Brendsel, but further document the kinds of programs you 
have begun that are very creative. I know they are working very, 
very well and what the future holds voluntarily for moderate and 
low-income people, as well as middle class people who also need a 
break in terms of having access to housing. 

Mr. Brendsel. Pleased to. 

Ms. Oakar. Mr. Wylie. 

Mr. Wylie. Thank you, Madam Chairman. 

I understand Mr. Leach in my absence asked for a recommenda- 
tion on the range of capital standards. Treasury has not come up 
with what I perceive as a guesstimate on what their range should 
be. This is sort of like if you are following a truck, you say we 
should be 500 feet behind, we say you should be 700 feet behind 
and Treasury said you should be farther back than that. So we 
need to come up with something there, it seems to me, in the way 
of a range or estimate as to capital. 

Did you hear my question which I asked Mr. Glauber where he 
said on page 3 of his testimony, "Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's 
own internal estimate of their earnings and capital levels over the 
next 3 years indicate they will have no difficulty in meeting, 
through retained earnings, the administration's critical capital 
level, minimum leverage ratio, and any reasonable risk-based cap- 
ital level"? Could you provide those internal estimates to the sub- 
committee to ascertain where you might be coming from? And they 
said they could not under the confidentiality of information provi- 
sions in. the statute. 

Are you under the same restrictions? 

Mr. James Johnson. We have never provided that to Treasury, 
and there were various other confidential documents that we did 
provide to Treasury. But we have never actually done an earnings 
projection and provided it to Treasury. The reason we don't do that 
is that is extraordinarily sensitive market information, and one of 
the things in the tradition of SBC regulations is that everyone in 
the securities' industry is most sensitive about is making any kind 
of prediction about earnings. It has a major stock impact, and it is 
something held more confidentially by private corporations then 
virtually anything else. 

We could try our best to cooperate with you and the subcommit- 
tee to set some parameters or to perhaps aid in developing an ana- 
lytical framework, but anything that looks like a specific earnings 
estimate is something that is extraordinarily difficult from a point 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



45 

of view of confidentiality. So I don't want to be evasive in any way, 
but it is hard to be totally responsive. 

Mr. Wylie. What you are suggesting is when Treasury says your 
own estimates indicate you will have no difficulty in meeting their 
capital requirements, that they could not have had that informa- 
tion? 

Mr. James Johnson. They did not have that information. 

Mr. Wylie. We are one step removed from where I thought we 
were a little while ago. I do think we need to get together with 
them and maybe come up with something more than a moving 
target which we have had and you agree with that, too, I guess. 

One quick, last question. 

Mr. Brendsel. Congressman, could I make a couple comments? 

Mr. Wylie. Surely. ■ 

Mr. Bbendsel. Again, I am not certain what information they 
think they have that we provided to them. I share Mr. Johnson s 
concern about confidentiality and market sensitivity to such kinds 
of information. In fact, we do not provide forecasts even to the 
marketplace because of the implications. 

Nevertheless, I would go back to a couple basic points in this 
regard. 

Number one, Treasury has not specified any kind of risk based 
capital test requirement for capital standards, so it is kind of im- 
possible to have a discussion about whether or not we will or will 
not be able to meet any capital standards they propose. 

Second, I also remind the subcommittee of Mr. Glauber's own 
statement before Congress earlier this year that the current risk to 
the taxpayer is de minimus in Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. What 
better way of saying that we have adequate capital for the current 
risk that we take? 

Now to the extent the companies grow, for mortgages in the 
future we should certainly add capital to support that growth. 

Mr. Wylie. I have one last question. 

Ms. Oakak. Could I just say I have made a commitment to Mr. 
Kennedy, who has another engagement, who has been here since 
10 o'clock that he would have a chance to ask a question? 

Mr. Wylie. Why do you dislike the affordable housing provisions 
in H.R. 2900 so much? You both mentioned that in your testimony. 
As drafted, the amendment should be deleted. That is from your 
statement, Mr. Johnson. 

Mr. James Johnson. Our concern there is that it changes the 
character of the work we do with low-income rental housing from 
market-based financing to providing direct grants and subsidies. 
We think that when the subcommittee made the decision back in 
1968 that there should be a separation with HUD and Ginnie Mae 
on one side for subsidized programs and Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac on the other Bide for market-oriented programs that was a 
very wise decision. 

We do an enormous amount of work with low- and moderate- 
income renters. We have $19 billion of multifamily product that we 
currently hold. 80 percent of that is affordable to people at 80 per- 
cent of the median income in their area. 

We have a very strong commitment to the program. We think 
this changes the character of what we do from being a financer to 

^izedbyGOOgle 



46 

being a subsidize!-, and we don't think that is an appropriate 
change. 

Mr. Wylie. Thank you. Is that basically your position? 

Mr. Brendsel. I would expand on that 

Ms. Oakar. Not too long, please. 

Mr. Brendsel. As Mr. Leach has noted earlier, we leverage our- 
selves. Our impact on the marketplace is through leveraging the 
capital that we have. In that way, we can provide the maximum 
kind of support to low- and moderate-income households rather 
than through specific kind of subsidy programs. 

Mr. Wylie. Thank you. 

Ms. Oakar. Thank you very much. 

Mr. Kennedy. 

Mr. Kennedy. Thank you, Madam Chairwoman. I think I am not 
going to ask about what I usually ask about at this time, which 
should put you at some ease, although I continue to be very con- 
cerned about the multi-million dollar packages that seem to reward 
just the highest echelons of Fannie in particular, but I am con- 
cerned about Freddie. 

I also just wanted to say, Madam Chairwoman, I think you bring 
up an excellent concern about the overall level of compensation for 
women. 

And I hope that just because of that exchange that we don't see 
one woman's salary skyrocket to the level of the top CEO's and 
then see the rest of the women continue to be at substandard 
levels. 

Ms. Oakar. We want them all up there; that is right. 

Mr. Kennedy. I do want to just say for a quick minute here 
about cause and effect. I am not interested in having the Congress 
of the United States over-regulate compensation levels at either 
one of your organizations. 

I don't think anybody — and I don't think that we want to hear 
statements about the fact that if we begin to get involved in your 
compensation levels that then the middle level people that you do 
need to attract are not going to be able to be paid competitive sala- 
ries as well. 

The reason why the government has to act in both the compensa- 
tion issue is because it is out of control, and the reason why the 
government is talking about acting in terms of the 20-percent com- 
mitment of profits is because, I think, of a general concern about 
the lack of involvement in the whole issue of affordable housing. 

And that is what I really wanted to talk with both of you about 
this morning, which is that we have passed in this subcommittee 
somewhere in the neighborhood of, over the course of the next 10 
years, roughly $70 billion worth of government-financed low- 
income housing. 

That financing will require something in the neighborhood of 
three-quarters of a trillion dollars worth of private financing in 
order to achieve the goals that we in this subcommittee have out- 
lined. 

It seems to me that there is a very important role that both 
Freddie and Fannie can play in terms of assisting in programs such 
as HOPE, HOME, expiring use housing and a whole range of other 



47 

initiatives that this Congress needs to have funded through the pri- 
vate sectors. 

You have both talked in general terms about new housing initia- 
tives. I know, Jim, you have talked specifically about a $10 billion 
program dating back to last April or May, maybe it was March or 
April. 

And yet we have yet to see the kinds of specifics, I think, that 
would lead me to believe that there really is a kind of commitment 
that is necessary to fulfill the mandate of the Congress, number 
one. 

And number two, I think that that would do a large part, if we 
had some of those specifics, to diminishing the need for the regula- 
tion in terms of the 20 percent if we really had some hard commit- 
ments that indicated that you were really going out and achieving 
the goals that we so desperately need. 

When you answered Chalmers, I think it was a minute ago, you 
said you didn't want to get out of the business of financing and into 
actually developing the housing. 

I think you should do both. I think that is part of the mandate is 
to get out and get these programs developed so that we can have 
the kinds of housing programs that the subcommittee and the 
people of our country want. 

Can you respond, please? 

Mr. James Johnson. Yes, thank you very much, Congressman 
Kennedy. 

In regard to the $10 billion program that we announced this 
March, things are moving along very well in that program. 

We have announced a special program for the elderly, a special 
program targeted at rural lending, a special program for employer- 
assisted housing. 

And we so far — we have taken in about $2.4 billion of commit- 
ments under that program, so that is moving, and it is moving 
along pretty well. 

Mr. Kennedy. Maybe you can respond in writing because we are 
going to be out of time, but maybe both you and Mr. Brendsel can 
give us some very specific programs. 

Also I would like to see in writing a r espo nse to the programs 
such as HOPE, HOME, expiring use, the FIRREA-mandated hous- 
ing, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board-mandated housing, and 
any of the other programs that I am forgetting right at the 
moment that I can come up with that this subcommittee has 
passed that is going to require private sector financing over the 
course of the next several years. 

Mr. James Johnson. I would be happy to. 

[The information referred to can be found in the appendix.] 

Ms. Oakar. Thank you very much. 

Mr. Frank has questions, and he is on his way back, so at this 
point we will adjourn until Mr. Frank returns. 

Thank you. 

[Recess.] 

Mr. Frank [presiding]. Ms. Oakar is not able to come back. 

Mr. Kennedy, I believe, has completed his questioning. Is there 
anyone else who has not yet completed his questioning? 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



48 

If there is no objection, Ms. Waters has a statement she would 
like included in the record. And the Chair hears no objections, that 
statement will be included. 

[The prepared statement of Ms. Waters can be found in the ap- 
pendix.] 

Mr. Frank. I think you might turn on the questioning. Let me 
ask a couple of things. I do notice we are down to one stenogra- 
pher. I thought perhaps we had three stenographers because we 
were following the Treasury's scenario of being very prepared for 
severe disaster and therefore we would be as ready, they would try 
to set an example. 

I really have questions more for Treasury. I apologize for not 
having been here; but the Judiciary Committee, on which I serve, 
was to have an oversight hearing this morning with the Attorney 
General, who did not come. 

And I had to choose between noting the absence of the Attorney 
General and taking advantage of the presence of the Undersecre- 
tary, and I chose the former. 

I have a couple of questions which I am going to submit to them, 
but one in particular, and I must say that as one who agrees with 
the Treasury's analysis of the way markets work much of the 
time — and I am somewhat surprised by that position here because, 
as I understand what Treasury is telling us, it is that we can insist 
statutorily on increasing the capital requirements and be sure 
somehow that this will come out of the stockholder's equity and 
not out of the product. 

Generally my friends on the Republican side and on the conserv- 
ative side are the ones who take the opposite side of that. They are 
generally instructing Liberals that if we raise taxes or in other 
ways levy on appropriate sector entity, we have no guarantee that 
this will reduce profits, that it may very well drive up prices. 

And I have not been able to understand how Treasury can be so 
certain in this case that levying on you, imposing higher capital 
standards will come entirely out of the stockholders' equity and 
won't result in a higher price of the product. 

That doesn't necessarily make it wrong, but I do think Treasury 
has some obligation to do more than simply state that, given that 
they are usually on the exact opposite side of that issue. 

Let me ask both of you, as they have presented their bill, are 
there mechanisms in there. And I know you don't like this idea, 
but under Treasury's bill, are there mechanisms that would guar- 
antee that if, in fact, we raised capital standards for you that the — 
and as we say, that has to come out of somewhere, are there in 
Treasury's bill guarantees that this would come out of the stock- 
holders' equity in both of your cases and not out of the price of the 
product? 

Mr. Brendsel. 

Mr. Brendsel. No. 

Mr. Frank. She is terrific, but she is not good with head shakes. 

Mr. Brendsel. No. 

Mr. Frank. Mr. Johnson. 

Mr. James Johnson. No, there are not. 

Mr. Frank. I don't even begin to see the mechanism. I agree 
with that, and I think that is a serious flaw because we are talking 



here about a product which has some benefit, and the benefit is 
lower housing costs which everyone agrees to. 

That doesn't mean a priori that there should never be higher 
capital standards. It means you pay a price for those. That is rele- 
vant, it seems to me, because the kind of disaster scenario that 
they are talking about, as I read and Mr. Brendsel called to my at- 
tention, the disaster scenario in Mr. Weicher's testimony of mort- 
gage rates being cut in half and housing prices dropping by 40 per- 
cent, 15 percent unemployment, I must say I think if that hap- 
pened, we would be worried about us more than you two around 

I think it is relevant to point out when we do comparisons be- 
tween these institutions and banks, savings and loans, and so forth, 
we have already had, I believe, the worst real estate depression 
since the Great Depression of the 1930' s. 

I don't believe we have had anything comparable in terms of the 

Srolonged, serious negative economic circumstances that are re- 
ected particularly in the kind of real estate in which both of these 
entities invest. 

We have survived that in very good shape. Apparently, the com- 
plaint seems to be that if anything, you are making too much 
money rather than too much at risk. 

Again that does not suggest to me there is a great need to pre- 
pare for it since I am convinced that getting ready for the dooms 
day scenario will to a substantial extent come out of the product, 
the price of housing. 

The other question I do want to address to Treasury, and I will 
Bend these along to them, but I will ask you also, I can't figure out 
quite what it is that people say we have implicitly guaranteed. We 
are told that we have an implicit guarantee. I think there is a se- 
mantic problem there. I think the implicit guarantee that you talk 
about a lot is certainly no longer implicit. 

It might be — I think what it really is is an inferred guarantee. 
That is some other people have inferred that we guarantee it. But I 
need to know what it is that we are supposed to have guaranteed. 

The analogy cannot be to banks and thrifts because in banks and 
thrifts there are deposits. In the great majority of cases that I am 
aware of where there have been failures, we have not protected the 
stockholder. 

Now, again, I think that ought to be very clear, whether it was 
Continental, the Bank of New England, it is not my impression — or 
the S&L situation, we have not, as we should not have, protected 
the stockholder, the equity holder. There are no analogies to depos- 
its here, so I wonder if either of you have any idea when people tell 
us that we are somehow on the hook because we have these guar- 
antees, what is it that we are supposed to have guaranteed. 

Assuming it is not your stockholders' equity, you have nothing 
like deposits, what else have you got that we might be on the hook 
for? 

Mr. Brendsel. I think generally when people talk about this, 
Congressman, that certainly they are not talking about stockhold- 
ers equity. No one is suggesting that I know of that our investors 
are being guaranteed. I think the issue centers around our debt se- 
curities or our mortgage-backed securities that we issue 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



50 

Mr. Frank. So that the theory might be that we have somehow 
guaranteed if I go into the market and buy— and I guess by now I 
should not do that for conflict of interest purposes, we have enough 
problems — but if I were to go into the market and buy one of your 
mortgage-backed securities, the theory is that if you couldn't pay 
off somehow the government is going to pay me off? 

Mr. Brendsel. That is correct. 

Mr. Frank. And that is what we are talking about? 

Mr. Brendsel. Yes. 

Mr. Frank. I have got to say, let me just say this. I think some of 
my friends who were pushing hard for the Treasury-type legisla- 
tion are making a mistake. I would prefer to say to people, I would 
like to say it right now, if you have both mortgage-backed securi- 
ties for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, I do not intend to bail you 
out if they fail as a Member of Congress. 

I am not voting you any money. I don't think most other people 
are voting you any money. I think the more we entangle ourselves 
with it, the more we start giving you instructions, the better the 
case is going to be that we have done that. 

I think the best way to protect the Treasury is to say as loudly 
and clearly as we can, buy mortgage-backed securities, here is their 
track record, here is what they do, but don't come looking to us if 
there is any problem, not that we expect there to be one. 

Have any of you ever represented, either of you, that there is 
some government bailout coming if your securities fail? Mr. John- 
son. 

Mr. James Johnson. On the contrary. On every document that 
we put out, every prospectus, it says explicitly that this is not guar- 
anteed by the Federal Government. 

Mr. Frank. A very good point. 

You know what I think you might want to do? I would like to 
ask the staff, let's compare, when this subcommittee did a bill 
about a month ago, we mandated that the new financial entities we 
are allowing under the bill contain such a warning, that is that if 
there is an entity that has both a depository institution and a non- 
depository institution, they put some language in their warning, we 
ought to compare warnings. If your warning is at least as good as 
ours— I really think this is a paradox in which people should be 
protected. 

Mr. Leach. Would the gentleman yield on that point? 

Mr. Frank. Yes, I would yield to the gentleman. 

Mr. Leach. Could I kind of issue a warning? First, I agree with 
part of this exchange, but we did bail out the Farm Credit System, 
which is a GSE, so there is some precedent. 

Now, having said that, just again by way of warning, this bill leg- 
islates capital ratios and then legislates them as a ceiling, which is 
as close to a preposterous principle as I know in my time here in 



Now, the fact is with the distinction between the administration 
and the Congress. I understand the frustration of our two witnesses 
in that the administration hasn't designated what a proper level of 
capital is. Instead, they are saying that they will give such exper- 
tise to an experienced professional to make certain judgments. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



51 

Congress is saying, we are going to mandate not a floor, but a 
ceiling, and the ceiling is low. 

Now, if there is any history of the last decade or two, it is that 
too much capital is not a problem. 

I know of no place where it has been negative, and lots of places 
where it has been a positive, but we are saying too much capital is 
a problem, and so we don't want them to have it. 

Second, Mr. Johnson is saying, and I think he used a very precise 
figure earlier, $2.3 billion or something like, that they are going to 
raise more capital in the next few years. 

Mr. James Johnson. It is $2.5 billion. 

It has already been put in place in 1990 and 1991. 

Mr. Leach. Two and a half billion dollars, which is going to be 
raised internally, so there is no problem going to the market with 

S)u because you have all this money coming from internal funds, 
ut I will be darned if I don't think that Congress ought to say 
that we think there is a problem with capital, we think that it 
ought to be raised. 

I mean the market is saying that possibly Freddie Mac needs a 
little more than Fannie Mae. 

I don't know if that is the right judgment or not, but both of you 
are doing rather well, both of you have enormous capacities to 
raise money. 

It isn't take from the stockholder, although it could imply dilu- 
tion. I have talked to stockholders' of your institutions who tell me 
they like how things are going, but they can't complain if Congress 
mandates a little more capital, and I, for the life of me 

Mr. Frank. If I could say to the gentleman, none of it is relevant 
to what I was talking about. 

I would like to address it, though. 

I am trying to be more precise here. 

First of all, with regard to whether or not we should do a ceiling 
or not, it is my understanding that under the bill that the chair- 
man has they would be debarred from having more capital? 

Mr. Brendsel. Mr. Chairman? 

Mr. Frank. Mr. Brendsel. 

Mr. Brendsel. This bill does not provide a ceiling. 

In fact, the genius in the proposal, in fact, is that it is dynamic, 
it adjusts to changing conditions. 

Mr. Frank. Sometimes there is dispute. I was not aware that 
there was a ceiling on the capital. 

The staff that worked on the bill isn't aware of it, nobody is 
aware of it. 

Mr. Leach. But as I understand it, this says the regulator cannot 
require above a certain level. 

Mr. Frank. But that is different. 

I would say to the gentleman, that is different. 

Again, I think people on the Republican side 

Mr. Leach. How is it different? Voluntarily 

Mr. Frank. I am sorry. I am going to take back my time and ex 
plain to the gentleman, this is totally off the subject I am talking 
about, but how is it different? 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



It is different when you say there is a ceiling on capital, I under- 
stood the gentleman to mean, and I think others did, that somehow 
they would be illegally barred from having more capital than that. 

The gentleman appears to think that what the regulator does is 
coterminous and identical to what entities do. 

Mr. Leach. That is 

Mr. Frank. No, I am sorry. 

The gentleman raised the subject, and the gentleman had his 
time, but I think there is a confusion that he has introduced that I 
just think needs to be dealt with. 

No, this is no ceiling in this bill in the sense that they are some- 
how prevented if the market says that they ought to have more 
capital. 

If they feet a need to have more capital, they can have more cap- 
ital. 

There is a ceiling on what the regulator can impose on them, but 
that is not — that is a very strange form of shorthand to say that it 
is a ceiling on the capital because that is all the regulator has to 
say. 

Mr. James Johnson. Mr. Chairman, could I comment on this? 

I think it is an interesting point. 

Mr. Frank. Yes. 

Mr. James Johnson. If you look at the H.R. 2900 as drafted, at 
the end of last year, at the end of 1990, Fannie Mae would have 
been required to have approximately $4 billion in capital. 

Today we have $6.6 billion in capital. We intend to continue to 
grow that capital. 

Let me tell you why. 

That is that we want to have, in fact, a very substantial cushion 
between what is required of us by the regulator and what we need 
to do our business because it is a dynamic 

Mr. Frank. Excuse me, but you can talk to him about that on 
his time and your time, but that is not what I was asking about. 

I just want to make clear, I don't regard it as a ceiling. I think 
this is a confusion here. 

These are private sector entities. 

I would rather stress that. I think people put the taxpayer at 
risk when they go the other way. 

The gentleman is right; we did bail out the Farm Credit System. 
I voted against that. I thought it was a mistake. 

I will say this: Things we do in agriculture we do which fortu- 
nately we wouldn't do anywhere else. 

I do not think the history of America is that you can look at an 
analogy to agriculture and say that is going to happen to farmers 
and agriculture has gotten different treatment. 

Some of the most conservative Members of this body, when it 
comes to agriculture, they never heard of free enterprise, subsidies 
are fine. 

Somehow there is a footnote, I didn't read it, but in certain edi- 
tions of Milton Friedman and Ludwig Von Mises and Friedrich 
Hayek, there is a footnote that says none of this applies to agricul- 
ture. 

It is not in my copy, but apparently they have it in North Caroli- 
na in the libraries. 



It says it in there. 

So I agree with that. I don't think the evidence is such — and I 
would rather go the other way, but I would like to get back and say 
that if people are talking about — where I was, you do have, both of 
you have, Mr. Johnson said this, Mr. Brendsel, warning labels on 
the securities you sell that they are not insured, guaranteed or in 
any way backed by the Federal Government? 

Mr. Brendsel. Absolutely; right on front page. 

Mr. Frank. I think that is a much more — I would say to my col- 
leagues, those who say that despite that, we are somehow at risk if 
there is a failure, are engaging in a degree of self-fulfilling prophe- 
cy that puts the Federal Government Treasury more at risk than 
anything else I can think of. 

Mr. Brendsel. If I could have just 30 seconds to respond to an- 
other comment that kind of slipped out of Mr. Leach's mouth 

Mr. Frank. Oh, nothing slipped. 

Mr. Brendsel. Mr. Leach said that the market is saying that 
Freddie Mac may need a little bit more capital than Fannie Mae. 

The market is not saying that. 

However, certainly the market is saying if this subcommittee, if 
Congress adopts an approach to establishing capital standards that 
does not reflect the unique risks of each of the companies, certainly 
any crazy thing can happen. 

Mr. Frank. Mr. Leach, do you want to respond? I am through if 
you have anything. 

Mr. Leach. Well, we have set a record in terms of the banking 
industry in indicating that the U.S. Government should not be in 
the first instance concerned with stock valuation. It should be con- 
cerned with levels of capital for prudential purposes. And if the 
prudential judgment is made that a level of capital should be 
raised, I would grant it could affect the stock price, but I would not 
grant that that should deprive the U.S. Government from setting 
that level. I acknowledge it could have an effect on the market- 
place, just as it could have an effect if we created a Margie Mae, a 
third, or a Barnie Mae, a fourth kind of entity. 

I am not advocating that that needs to be done, but in theory, 
that is a possibility, but I will agree it could affect the market. 

Now, I don't think anybody on this subcommittee should be too 
concerned about the holders of stock in your corporations. 

They have done mighty well, partly because they have been 
pretty well led, and partly because of unique market opportunities 
that you have taken advantage of in the last 2 or 3 years which has 
served the public interest in my judgment. I don t want to deny 
that your two institutions in the last 3 years in terms of the public 
turmoil in housing have served the public interest incredibly well, 
and that is my own judgment. 

That doesn t mean that I think you are adequately capitalized, 
and it doesn't mean that I think Congress should pass the bill as it 
is currently crafted. 

Mr. Frank. Mrs. Roukema. 

Mrs. Roukema. I want to say here, here to what Mr. Leach has 
just said, and I must say that I think there is a note of unreality 
about my colleague, Mr. Frank's analogy here in saying that be- 
ared byGOOgle 



54 

cause you have the disclaimer there the Government has no re- 
sponsibilities for your activities. 

First of all, it is called a Government-sponsored enterprise, OK? 

We have already heard the references to the fact that there are 
obligations here with respect to your securities, your Government- 
backed securities, your mortgage bonds, et cetera. 

What were we discussing when we discussed too big to fail, for 
heaven's sake? 

The reality here is I don't care what the technical analysis that 
you make versus another sharp lawyer's technical analysis, we are 
going to have a collapse of major proportions on our hands that 
this Government is not going to let happen if we 

Mr. Frank. Would the gentlewoman tell me what collapse she is 
talking about? 

Mrs. Roukema. If we move to people or practices that are not re- 
liable as we saw in the savings and loan and the commercial banks, 
so thank God in these harsh times that we have had such well- 
managed enterprises here. 

But that could change at any time, and we are not writing legis- 
lation here for whoever happens to be the regulator at any particu- 
lar point in time or whoever happens to be in the management, 
nor, might I say, now getting on to a different point, and Mr. 
Brendsel, I don't mean to be harsh, but I have got to take exception 
because you have equated increased capital requirements with 
being a tax on your board members? 

That was what I understood you to say. I thought it was — in the 
body of your testimony. But anyway, the inference was there, and 
that is why I wanted to second what Mr. Leach said with respect to 
the fact that your board members and your stockholders have been 
doing well, as they should, as they should, because they have been 
well-managed enterprises. 

Now, let me just ask— this capital question is getting more and 
more thorny here as we go along, and since I haven't had the bene- 
fit of your full test and the full discussion here, I do want to go 
back to something that Mr. Johnson said because he was rather 
specific and direct and to the point about his criticism of the Treas- 
ury approach, even accusing it of being a cut-and-paste version. 

You indicated that your test for capital is dynamic, and I under- 
stand that it is, but as I heard Mr. Glauber's testimony, and some- 
thing that Mr. Weicher, I think, concurred with, it sounded pretty 
dynamic using different standards and different measurements 
than you did, but it sounded dynamic as well, which was his basic 
argument for not having firm ceilings— floors and ceilings, as I un- 
derstood it. 

You could just explain a little bit more to me as to how your ap- 
proach is — why your approach is the favored dynamic approach 
from your own perspective, and isn't it fair to say that that is pre- 
cisely the quality that Treasury is looking for, using a different 
method? 

Mr. James Johnson. Let me try to do the best I can. There is a 
lot of conflicting strains in all that is being talked about. 

We believe that the capital approach should be one that adjusts 
to the changes in the risks that we take, so today, for example, the 
30-year Treasury bond is about 8V4 percent. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



55 

If that goes up to — we actually use the 10-year Treasury for pur- 
poses of this stress test, but suppose you take an 8-percent bench- 
mark and all of a sudden that is 12 percent rather than 8 percent. 

Our view is then the capital requirements on Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac should be required to adjust and adjust immediately 
as soon as those 

Mrs. Roukema. But isn't that what Mr. Glauber was testifying to 
and claiming for his own approach? 

Mr. Jambs Johnson. I think that in terras of having a dynamic 
stress-oriented capital standard, we are not in substantial disagree- 
ment. 

The difference is who sets that? 

What we are saying is that we believe that that ultimately is the 
balance between safety and soundness and housing, and, therefore, 
we believe it is very appropriate for Congress to Bet that balance. 

What Mr. Glauber is saying, he thinks that that should be dele- 
gated by Congress to HUD, so that HUD could go through a proc- 
ess, as the subcommittee staff has done, of looking at various stress 
tests, as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have done, of looking at var- 
ious stress tests and that HUD should come up with its own stress 
test, and that should be the one that applies to us rather than the 
one that the Congress would enact. 

He argues for that on the basis that that would allow for addi- 
tional flexibility, and it would allow the regulator a good deal of 
discretion. 

What we are saying in response to that is that we believe if the 
stress test is dynamic and it represents the policy of the subcom- 
mittee, that is the balance that the subcommittee wants between 
safety and soundness in housing, then the subcommittee should 
make that decision, and the Congress should make that decision. 

The other quarrel that we have with Mr. Glauber is one that I 
alluded to earlier when I was talking with Congressman Leach, 
and that is that one of the problems — Congressman Wylie also 
talked about this— what we have is that the Treasury has now 
been at the assessment of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac for 2 years. 

HUD has been at it, in the case of Fannie Mae, for 23 years. 

Neither organization has come forward with a stress test that 
has specific principles, specific assumptions, and that generates a 
specific number, so the subcommittee staff has put on the table, 
and you in your introduction have put before us an approach 
where we can say, "Okay, we take the committee 's approach. We 
apply all our assets to it. We apply that approach to us, and that 
requires on a date certain $4.1 billion of capital. 

That has never been done by Treasury and HUD, so we don't 
have a reference point from them as to what the alternative ap- 
proach would be. 

Mrs. Roukema. That is what I was trying to get to. 

Mr. James Johnson. That is why we are much more sympathet- 
ic, frankly, to the approach of H.R. 2900 because it is specific, and, 
therefore, we know now to relate to it. 

If Treasury would come forward— Mr. Glauber says in some 
words, he says if I were to do it today, it would be OK with you, 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, that is what the bottom of page 3 is 
all about. 



He says you can reach the stress test I think I would come up 
with, but since he hasn't come up with it, we can't evaluate it. It is 
just as simple — if he were to come up with it and it generated a 
number and it had an approach, we could then compare that ap- 
proach with the subcommittee approach and see where we should 
go, whether it is halfway in between or whether we should go up 
some or you should come up some or what should be done, but 
since we don't have a reference point, we can't make that compari- 
son. 

Just one last sentence on that is that we intend to continue to 
build our capital, and we continue to build — we intend to continue 
to build the cushion above what is required of us. 

I hope by yearend that we will have more than $2 billion beyond 
what is required of us in this draft. 

We are going to build beyond that because we don't ever want to 
be in a situation where if these dynamic changes occur, all of a 
sudden we can't do the business for housing that we are chartered 
to do, so we are going to have a good deal of cushion, a good deal of 
excess capital so that as circumstances change, we don't have to 
constrain our growth all of a sudden and can't do the mortgage 
business that we have been constituted to do. 

I hope that is not too confused or lengthy. 

Mrs. Roukema. No, I think it has been helpful. We are still wait- 
ing to hear more from Treasury, as you know. 

I presented an open-ended question to them, and we hope that 
they take our offer and work with us on it. 

Thank you very much. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Mr. Frank. I just want to respond since the gentlewoman ac- 
cused me of unreality. 

I am struck by the lack of intellectual rigor on the part of some 
of my colleagues. 

I think they are being self-defeating with this notion that, oh, 
sure, here on the hook. 

In fact, the gentleman said what is the point of these warnings, 
it is unreal. 

Well, the majority of the subcommittee didn't think so. The ma- 
jority of the subcommittee, I think, correctly structured entities 
that will be formed here, and it was something that was taken with 
a great deal of seriousness that when they sell securities that are 
not insured, they have to put a label on there. 

Now, maybe the gentlewoman thought that was unreal. 

Mrs. Roukema. That is true. That is true. 

It is hyperbole to point out there is a real problem here, and 
there is a real reason why we are attacking this problem. 

Mr. Frank. I yield to the gentleman from Iowa. 

Mr. Leach. Well, first, let me stress to the gentleman that I per- 
sonally have a great deal of respect for the intellectual rigor of the 
majority of the subcommittee. 

I think it is intellectually very rigorous. 

Now, having said that, there is a — Mr. Johnson 

Mr. Frank. I want to finish on my response to the gentlewoman 
from New Jersey, I will be glad to yield to the gentleman. She 
raised the point 



57 

Mr. Leach. I know, but let me come back. 

Everybody understands that one of the distinctions between 
these two institutions was that Mr. Brendsel's institution had a 
higher percentage of mortgages that, in effect, were immediately 
securitized. 

Mr. Johnson's institutions didn't. 

With a lower interest rate circumstance, Mr. Johnson's institu- 
tion has been the winner in terms of profitability. 

Now, if interest rates had gone substantially higher, as they did 
in the early eighties, I think Mr. Johnson's institution would have 
been in a little more difficulty. 

Mr. Johnson is now Baying that they are going to be protecting 
themselves to a greater degree in the future, both with higher cap- 
ital and in managing their risks. If it weren't for the luck of the 
macroeconomic economy, coupled with excellent leadership — in- 
cluding Mr. Johnson's predecessor who I and many people com- 
plained got too high a settlement — this Government would have 
been on the hook potentially for billions and billions of dollars that 
it isn't. Thank the Lord that it was as well run as it was, and so to 
some degree, that is a justifiable settlement, although I object to it. 
Having said that, when you talk about reality — and I come back to 
the chairman, the acting chairman of this subcommittee is correct 
in saying that I exaggerated the point about there being a ceiling. 
But in terms of reality, when the Congress places a minimum level 
and says that regulators cannot insist on a higher level, that does 
have the effect on many kinds of institutions of saying, "Well, we 
like to leverage so we are not sure we will go above it." 

Now, Mr. Johnson has said to us that he is going to go above 
that, and that is impressive. 

Mr. Brendsel may or may not. I don't know, but I would say that 
the history of American regulation is that many kinds of financial 
institutions in the real world of reality like to leverage to whatever 
extent regulators let them. 

Mr. Johnson has said he is not that kind of leader, but he might 
be followed by someone who is, which is more general. 

Now, in addition, if we talk about the real world, Mr. Brendsel 
has testified that his institution has been, in effect — I repeat this — 
40 to 50 times smarter than Citicorps and at least 4 times smarter 
than Chase Manhattan. 

Now, I hope it continues to be, but I can't, in the real world, 
assume it. 

I just can't. 

Based on that, I think it is realistic for us to be very concerned 
with levels. 

Mr. Frank. I want to respond. What both of my colleagues have 
objected to is my paying attention to what they said. Maybe I 
shouldn't do that in the future. You are saying, well, that is what I 
said, but that is not what I meant. I am better at what you said 
than what you meant. 

The fact is, yes, I understand. When a regulator says, as far as I 
am concerned, you have to know this high, that may lead some 
people not to go any higher, it may have that effect, but that is not 
what we were talking about. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



The gentleman said a ceiling. I think everybody understood a 
ceiling to be a limit above which you can't go. It is also the case, 
and we are not talking here about dozens and hundreds of institu- 
tions, we are talking about two particular institutions which are 
very much in the spotlight, and I think the gentleman's analogy 
between these two institutions and dozens and hundreds of others 
that are regulated is imprecise to a degree that makes it inappro- 
priate because I don't think they have those kinds of options. 

These also are two institutions which unlike a lot of others have 
an ultimate purpose, other than making money, but how they 
make their money, which is a little bit more socially favored to me, 
and that is the point I want to make, that there is a housing af- 
fordability tradeoff here that isn't necessarily the case in other 
places, but now I want to go back before the gentleman diverted 
me to the point of my friend from New Jersey on the unreality. 

I want to stress two things. One, I do think there is some point to 
these labels, but this is my most fundamental point. I find it para- 
doxical that people in the name of protecting the Treasury are 
making a better case for people to come to us if there is a problem 
than they should be. 

The better way to say it, I think, is to say to these people, look, it 
says it right here, there is no government guarantee, the govern- 
ment is not guaranteeing this. 

What my friends do when they go the other way is, in fact, to 
make more likely that which they say they are trying to forestall. 

Mrs. Roukema. Well, this discussion could go on forever, and I 
suppose that neither one of us would — one might win, but not con- 
clude the argument. Let me just say that I think your logical con- 
clusion, then, would lead you to say, well, then, we better privatize 
this whole thing, let's privatize the whole thing, but short of that, 
then we have the obligation, that is the reason it was put in the 
law, to do something to oversee or whatever this situation. 

Mr. Frank. That is why we are here. 

Mrs. Roukema. That is why we are here. That is the only point I 
was making. 

Mr. Frank. Mr. Brendsel, you wanted to say something if you 
insist on interrupting. 

Mr. Brendsel. This is an interesting conversation, but it is also 
serious in terms of implications and results, so I didn't want to let 
Mr. Leach's comments go unanswered in part. 

First of all, I didn't say we were smarter than City Corp. or 
Chase. Now, from time to time, we are, as from time to time, 
Fannie Mae is. It is also true that we approach our business differ- 
ently. 

We are the secondary market. We have certain additional protec- 
tions, layers of protections against loan losses that, in fact, a City- 
Corp or Chase have. So the way we do business is different. In part 
that is because of charter. 

Second, with regard to talking about raising more capital in the 
future, my position first is we are adequately capitalized now for 
the risk we take now. As we grow, as those risks change, we will 
and we should add capital. 

Certainly, we plan to do that Now, certainly this proposal that is 
on the table is very dynamic, and, in fact, in reference to Fannie 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



Mae in the early 1980's, it would have required an enormouB 
amount of capital to be held against the interest rate risk that that 
institution had at that time. 

That is precisely the of this particular proposal. Again, to illus- 
trate how tough these capital standards are, Mr. Leach, I don't 
think you were here during my oral statement, and I want to reit- 
erate a couple points. If this stress test for capital and interest rate 
risk were applied, for example, to a thrift holding a portfolio of res- 
idential primarily fixed rate mortgages, it would require that insti- 
tution to hold double the amount of capital that is currently re- 
quired under risk-based capital rules. 

It is a very tough standard — it would require that thrift to hold 
twice the amount of capital required under risk-based capital rules 
today. 

A final point is, as part of all these studies, Standard and Poor 
was retained to rate these companies absent their implied govern- 
ment guarantee. In fact, we worked with them and shared our in- 
formation with them, and they wound up concluding A-plus. It is 
not the highest rating it could have been, but do you recognize how 
many thrifts or banks there are whose subordinated debt is rated 
A-plus or better today? You could count them on two hands. 

Mr. Frank. We will let Mr. Leach make a comment. 

Mr. Leach. I do think it is fair to say that Mr. Johnson is a poor 
student. He has only an A-minus. Wasn't that the same study? I 
may be wrong. 

Mr. James Johnson. Let me make just one quick comment about 
the City Corps and Chase Manhattan. I never want to be in a posi- 
tion of turning down even an implied compliment, but I think the 
problem here is that we are measuring two different things in 
those statistics. 

Mr. Leach. It is apples and oranges. 

Mr. James Johnson. What you have is their current delinquency 
rate. 

Mr. Leach. The delinquency rate was 4.8 percent at the end of 
March. 

Mr. James Johnson. What we are comparing here is a delin- 

tuency rate to a default rate as opposed to a delinquency rate to a 
eUnquency rate. We would be happy to give you in writing a com- 
parison of their actual default rate with our default rate. 

You will see that they are much closer together. 

Mr. Leach. You are not much smarter, just a bit smarter. 

Mr. James Johnson. That is right. 

Mr. Frank. Mr. Leach, do you have one final 

Mr. Leach. I do have one final inquiry. 

Let me begin the inquiry with the observation, not only are these 
two extraordinarily fine leaders of American finance, but I think 
our Chairman is an extraordinarily able Chairman. 

Now, having said that, let me just ask, because this is one of the 
areas in which our distinguished chairman is one of the Congress' 
and the country's leading experts, would either of you have any ob- 
jection to applying the anti-trust laws of the United States to your 
institutions? 

Mr. James Johnson. Absolutely not. They apply currently. 



jOOgle 



Mr. Leach. OK. Fine. Thank you. You agree with that, Mr. 
Brendsel? 

Mr. Brendsel. Yes. They currently apply. 

Mr. Leach. Well, my great feeling on anti-trust is that we ought 
to apply them to Congress. 

Mr. Frank. Any further comments? 

If not, I thank the gentleman. 

We didn't have anti-trust for a while under Reagan, but we have 
it again now. 

The subcommittee will reconvene at 10 o'clock tomorrow morn- 



Son; 



Some people will be here and some people won't, but the subcom- 
mittee will reconvene at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning, and this 
hearing is now adjourned. 

[Whereupon, at 2:20 p.m. the hearing was adjourned subject to 
the call of the Chair.] 



^Google 



GOVERNMENT-SPONSORED HOUSING ENTER- 
PRISES FINANCIAL SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS 
ACT OF 1991 



FRIDAY, JULY 19, 1991 

House of Representatives, 
Subcommittee on Housing and Community 
Development, 
Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs, 

Washington, DC 

The subcommittee met, pursuant to call, at 10 a.m., in room 
2128, Rayburn House Office Building, Hon. Henry Gonzalez [chair- 
man of the subcommittee] presiding. 

Present: Chairman Gonzalez and Representative Kennedy. 

Chairman Gonzalez. The subcommittee will please come to 
order. 

The Chair would like to observe that this is one of the first 
Friday sessions for hearing purposes that we have had for the sub- 
committee and with the House not being in session, most of the 
membership is out of the city. 

However, as of yesterday I had been assured by a goodly number 
of members of the subcommittee that they would be here this 
morning. So I would anticipate that a few of the members will be 
forthcoming as we go. 

However, I don't think we ought to prolong inasmuch as we have 
a very, very substantial number of witnesses. I want to say also 
that even though the members may not be here, everyone has a 
copy of the testimony thus far received. This is a continuation of 
the hearings that we initiated some time ago with respect to. the 
government-sponsored enterprises. 

Each one of the members will have your testimony and a tran- 
script of the proceedings so that in case they have any questions 
they may wish to submit in writing, they will have to do so in time 
for you to be able to address the questions expeditiously for the 
hearing record. 

For the sake of expediting the proceedings today, and that we 
not make the witnesses listed at the end wait an inordinate 
amount of time, we will proceed and as the members arrive we will 
go on. I will dispense with any formal opening statement. I will see 
to it that it is placed in the record of the proceedings at the outset 

[The information referred to can be found in the appendix.] 

Chairman Gonzalez. I will now recognize Mr. Daniel F. Evans, 
Jr., Chairman of the Federal Housing Finance Board. Thank you 
again, Mr. Chairman. 

(61) 



ibyGoogle 



You may proceed as you deem best. 

STATEMENT OF DANIEL F. EVANS, JR., CHAIRMAN, THE FEDERAL 
HOUSING FINANCE BOARD 

Mr. Evans. Thank you, Mr. Evans. 

First of all, my thanks to you and your staff and the other mem- 
bers for permitting me to testify the first thing this morning. I 
greatly appreciate it. 

When last we were here 6 weeks ago we reported the good news 
and not so bad news with respect to the Home Loan Bank System. 

Today basically the situation remains the same, that is that the 
Federal Home Loan Bank System remains safe and sound, it con- 
tinues with its triple A rating without the implied guarantee of the 
taxpayers. The Federal Housing Finance Board has aggressively 
pursued its safety and soundness mission and is in the process of 
examining each of the 12 district banks. 

We have completed a number of examinations and we continue 
our examinations. The mere fact that we have 12 district banks as 
opposed to the other GSE's which are one-entry organizations 
causes us to go more closely than we would desire but we are ag- 
gressively pursuing that and achieving some results. 

As I forecasted at the last hearing, Mr. Chairman, the market- 
place as usual is leading us. We are not leading the marketplace. 
Our advances outstanding to members as of June 30, 1991, are 
$94,740 billion. Six weeks ago when I last testified that number 
was $100 billion. So the decline in just 1 month has been a little 
over 5 percent. 

We think we are looking at the bottom of that shortly as the 
RTC continues resolving failed thrifts. There is nothing uncertain 
or unpredictable about this except it is putting a terrific strain on 
the system's profitability. We now hold approximately $55 billion 
in nonadvance assets which is a pretty fancy way of saying invest- 
ments in overnight deposits. That puts the Federal Home Loan 
Bank System in the position of being one of the largest if not the 
largest holder of overnight deposits in the country. 

Holding overnight deposits and making investments is not the 
business of the Federal Home Loan Bank System. The business of 
the Federal Home Loan Bank System is assuring its members can 
make mortgage loans, fund affordable housing projects and going 
about the business of seeing to it that America is well housed. 

We don't like to be in the position of managing a portfolio which 
is as large as it is. We are very mindful of that responsibility that 
is placed upon us in doing that. So following through on the theme 
that the market is leading us, the obverse of that is artificial non- 
market constraints are holding back our ability to maximize servic- 
ing the home mortgage industry in all of its phases. 

One way or another, we must have voluntary membership at 
some point in the future for our present members, our thrift mem- 
bers who got us to where we are today. I would like to point out 
that the thrift industry, although it continues to be battered and 
bruised by the transgressions of those in the past, those that are 
surviving are healthy, well run, well managed and a great many of 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



63 

them, the data shows this quarter and last quarter, actually turned 
a profit. 

I think Mr. Holland of the U.S. League testifying sometime after 
me hopefully in his oral statement will get into more detail on the 
upward curve that the industry now finds itself in and the fact 
that those that presently represent the industry are not those that 
got us into the fix that FIRREA addresses. 

There is no reason to be afraid of voluntary membership. The 
Boston, New York, and Pittsburgh banks of the Federal Home 
Loan Bank System all have a large number of voluntary members. 
In each of those banks none of the voluntary members has asked to 
withdraw from the system. I attribute that to their feeling that 
there is a value in the system. 

They are able to borrow advances at very competitive rates, pass 
those savings along to their customers, mortgagors, and go about 
their business in a profitable way. In the Boston Bank System I be- 
lieve half their members are voluntary and none have withdrawn. 
The first application after FIRREA to join the bank system was 
from the Boston district. But we must meet our obligations imposed 
under FIRREA. 

FIRREA imposes on the Federal Home Loan Bank System two 
major obligations that cost real money. The biggest is the $300 mil- 
lion we are required to pay REFCORP in interest payments each 
year. The second of those is the Affordable Housing Programs re- 
quired under the statute which will cost between $50 and $100 mil- 
lion a year depending on the profits of the system. 

As the Chair well knows and as I conveyed to the Chair after our 
meeting in a personal letter, we have been successful beyond our 
wildest expectations with the Affordable Housing Program. I would 
like to recognize the good work of the staff of the Finance Board, 
Sylvia Martinez particularly, in our affordable housing division. 

The applications for Federal housing funds outstrip our ability to 
service them. Housing has become less and less affordable to the 
middle American as well. That is the reason we are chagrined that 
we are sitting on top of $55 billion in cash or cash equivalents 
which are not out there servicing mortgages today. 

We think we need to make sure that all members are treated 
equally within the system both commercial banks and S&L's. We 
need to serve the largest possible percentage of the home mortgage 
market. I feel a little bit like the base closing commission, dealing 
with fewer soldiers means you have fewer bases. We have fewer 
members so we are going to be serving fewer mortgagors as time 
goes on unless we are able to expand our membership. 

The Federal Housing Finance Board has strongly encouraged 
each of our district banks, and I mean encouraged in words of one 
syllable that among their missions is to attract new members. The 
Federal Home Loan Banks have been successful in attracting new 
members. Now we must convert those new members to new 
member borrowers. We still remain on the outside edge, hopefully 
the leading edge of the recession. 

We believe as the recession dies down and the economy perks up 
and the signs are that that is occurring now, the demand for new 
commercial bank members will pick up. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



64 

This is a very tough issue, Mr. Chairman, and I know that you 
will hear testimony about this from others today, but we feel a 
strong sense of responsibility to assist this subcommittee in figur- 
ing out a way to come up with a formula or a plan to service in the 
most fair way to our present members that vast number of poten- 
tial mortgagors out there who deserve the benefit of the Federal 
Home Loan Bank System which after all raises its money with the 
implied guarantee of the U.S. taxpayer. 

Last and of immediate importance to the Federal Housing Fi- 
nance Board and as shown in the budget report, the Federal Home 
Loan Bank System is over capitalized; because we are over capital- 
ized not much attention is focused on us. The attention is focused 
on those entities which some may believe to be less capitalized, 
some may say under capitalized. 

The law requires us to take back from a member 5 percent of the 
tendings in capital stock. The capital stock purchase requirements 
which vary between thrifts and commercial banks, and right now 
the Federal Home Loan Bank System has capital of $11.2 billion. I 
think that is about 7.3 percent. I am not sure. 

It is between 7 and 8 percent. That costs our members real 
money. The CBO is very clear in their report about the effect of 
our capitalization on our members. Our members are required to 
tie up more capital in their mandatory ownership of Federal Home 
Loan Bank stock than the marketplace requires for sure. Since 
1933 the Federal Home Loan Bank System has not experienced a 
single loss, on a risk adjusted basis, our capital would approach 30 
percent if not actually be there by now. 

This situation of over capitalization truly puts our members at a 
competitive disadvantage with others who use other funding mech- 
anisms that require less capital. 

Last, we have to deal with efficiencies. The Federal Home Loan 
Bank System is comprised of 12 district banks. The statute requires 
us to keep a minimum of eight district banks. I believe that those 
district lines were drawn sometime in the Great Depression even 
though the district banks have moved since then. 

We are under pressure to operate the system as efficiently and 
economically as possible. We would like to come back to the sub- 
committee working with our industry and shareholders on a pro- 
posal to give the Finance Board the discretion to redraw the lines 
of the Federal Home Loan Bank System and perhaps reduce the 
number of Federal Home Loan Banks to less than eight. At this 
time we are requiring them to operate at the highest level of effi- 
ciency and in their portfolios and managing their lending practices 
in a safe and sound fashion. 

To avoid the risk of being repetitive from the appearance I have 
no further remarks. I will be happy to entertain any questions at 
this time. That completes my oral statement. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you for having given us the written, 
printed text of your testimony. 

[The prepared statement of Daniel F. Evans, Jr. can be found in 
the appendix.] 

Chairman Gonzalez. You mention in your testimony that com- 
mercial banks have significantly increased their role in the origina- 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



65 

tion and funding of residential mortgages and now originate more 
housing loans than thrifts. 

Do you have any statistics? 

Mr. Evans. We believe the data showB now commercial banks 
represent over 40 percent of mortgage origination and thrifts repre- 
sent about 25 percent of the market. 

I am completely aware of the fact that different organizations 
have different numbers, but the trend remains the same and that 
is commercial banks are taking an ever increasing share of the 
mortgage origination market. 

Chairman Gonzalez. What would be, if you have the statistic, 
the average mortgage amount involved that the banks are financ- 
ing? 

Mr. Evans. Do you mean average mortgage balance outstanding? 

Chairman Gonzalez. Yes, what is the average cycle of the mort- 
gages that the banks are financing? I would say it is certainly not 
in what we would call the affordable housing range. 

Mr. Evans. No, sir, I would doubt if it is in the average or the 
medium. 

Chairman Gonzalez. The banks never have and never will, 
unless there is some additional factor there. Even with subsidies 
this is the reason why the system was set up to begin with. If this 
is true then, of course, we want to make sure that we analyze it 
because you also state that, in fact I think you kind of stressed the 
need for expanding the membership in the Federal Home Loan 
Bank System. 

As I interpret your statement you are asking us to look, even 
with those remaining impediments, to the commercial bank mem- 
bership now. Yet you are not proposing that Congress adopt a vol- 
untary membership at the same time, are you? 

Mr. Evans. No, we are not specifically linking the two to the 
exact same moment in time, that is correct. But the reason for that 
is that it is tied to our capital requirements. We also need the au- 
thority under statute to set our capital requirements. 

Once we have a notion of what the acceptable capital require- 
ments are, then an advance for how much capital should be in the 
system, and from whom, can be decided. We are in active conversa- 
tions with all interested parties including the subcommittee's staff 
on that very issue, what are our capital requirements and there- 
fore what should be the mix of our membership stock purchase re- 
quirements. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Well, we received a package from your leg- 
islative aid Steve Britt reflecting a proposal by the board in that 
respect. 

Among those issues are the possibility or the likelihood of a need 
to establish comparable capital standards to Fannie Mae and Fred- 
die Mac and the need to otherwise equalize the status of Fannie 
and Freddie and the banks. 

Then would that be tantamount to proposing lowering of the cap- 
ital requirements? What would be the thrust of that suggestion? 

Mr. Evans. The amendments I think you are referring to were 
turned over to your staff. They were drafted by the staff of the Fi- 
nance Board. They have not been approved by this subcommittee 
or the Finance Board. It was an effort to engage a dialog on that 



66 

subject. As I said in May and in my testimony today, as well as 
echoed in the several GSE reports, yes, Mr. Chairman, we have an 
abundance of capital that puts our members at disadvantage. They 
have to tie up a great deal of capital in order to get the advance 
program, the advance window. 

Yes, the effect of that would be to lower the present capital in 
the system in a manner that would not jeopardize our REFCORP 
funding or affordable housing contributions. 

Chairman Gonzalez. In other words, consistent with the REF- 
CORP requirements. 

Mr. Evans. Yes, sir, we were very much aware that we have to 
make an annual payment to REFCORP. Without any change in 
demand or our product, we predict that the REFCORP contribution 
will take up 39 percent of the system. That will have the effect of 
driving down the amounts for dividends which will have the effect 
of driving down demand for advances and in turn will drive down 
the system profits and drive up the REFCORP's presence in the af- 
fordable housing area. 

Those patterns cannot be ignored and we cannot pretend that 
they are not linked together. 

Chairman Gonzalez. I realize that H.R. 2900 was just intro- 
duced. If you or your staff has had a chance (to review H.R. 2900), 
how do you consider the capital requirements as we described them 
in H.R. 2900 with what you feel would be a stream of consistency 
of Federal requirements. 

Mr. Evans. We have no guidance from Congress today or no 
clear mandate as to what our capital requirements should be. That 
bill focuses as is predictable on those that possess a great deal less 
capital than we do, namely Fannie and Freddie. We have brought 
that issue up at the staff level within the Executive Branch and 
within Congress several times that we require some guidance. 

I think the CBO report, of all the reports on GSE, clearly puts 
the responsibility back. It does not Bay what the adequate capital 
requirement is. It just Bays that a capital requirement needs to be 
developed for the Federal Home Loan Bank System. 

Right now, there is one implied in the existing statute which re- 
quires a member, an S&L when it borrows to buy 5 percent stock 
so you are automatically going to have 5 percent capital supporting 
that borrowing. That 5 percent is considerably higher than the re- 
quirements placed in the bill on Fannie and Freddie. 

We have no intention of paying down our capital under any sce- 
nario to some minimum amount. What we want is clear authority 
to develop capital guidance and the discretionary authority to deal 
with it in a fashion that is quick enough that it mirrors the mar- 
ketplace. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Well, the CBO report indicated that both of 
those two entities were adequately capitalized at present. What I 
am getting at is, in H.R. 2900 we are suggesting parameters within 
which, without necessarily setting a fixed ceiling or whatever, and 
that in itself, as interpreted by the Freddie Mac staffs, leads them 
to conclude that if H.R. 2900 were adopted as it is now written, 
they would have to come up with an additional $1.5 billion in cap- 
ital. 



67 

So if you would look into that or have your staff evaluate it from 
that standpoint and as to the goal that you are seeking with re- 
spect to equalization of capital requirements, I will appreciate it. 

Mr. Evans. We will. Right now, Mr. Chairman, taking 2900 and 
looking at the regulatory capital levels and the risk based capital 
and the stress test all incorporated in, applying that to us today 
would put us at about 30 percent capital. We have it. It is not that 
we don t have it. We do have it. We don't have to earn any more to 
get up to that point but we don't want to earn less by virtue of 
having too much capital. 

Chairman Gonzalez. I understand. I think that is another 
matter. Everybody I think agrees that the ideal thing is to seek an 
adequate capital base, that you don't want to go to the other ex- 
treme and have an overcapitalized requirement where one extreme 
is as bad as the other. I think you are right. It is unrealistic. 

Mr. Evans. Buried in the old Federal Home Loan Bank statutes 
are all sorts of requirements. I am a lawyer and extremely near- 
sighted. So I tend to tucker out about two paragraphs into it. We 
are intensely analyzing why the Federal Home Loan Banks carry 7 
to 8 percent capital when in fact the only people providing that 
capital are members. 

It does not result in the most efficient mechanism for providing 
Home Loan Bank Board mortgage money to their members with 
which they can provide their mortgagors and customers. That 
drives down our profit which impacts our ability to meet the REF- 
CORP payments and the affordable housing payments. 

We find ourselves in the enviable position of dealing with too 
much, not too little. We also feel the same sense of responsibility 
we do with the $55 billion in investments. It is not a responsibility 
we take lightly. We realize there is a very real possibility that our 
capital can become a wasting asset. 

We don't want that to happen through inertia on our part or 
lack of attention because it is not a problem to others. So we come 
here today not to sound the alarm, but to do as we did last time, to 
beg the subcommittee's indulgence to come up with a formula. 

The syBtem has been through stress before. With each recession 
comes the decline in demands for mortgages. 

Chairman Gonzalez. I agree with you. It is something that we 
are planning. But by necessity, given our available legislative work 
time, we were planning to do that early in the fall, as soon as we 
came back in September. But we do intend to address that. 

Mr. Evans. We hope to work with the subcommittee and its staff 
in the meantime. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Yes. 

Mr. Kennedy. 

Mr. Kennedy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

I was interested in your testimony regarding the Affordable 
Housing Program. I think in many cases the success of the Afford- 
able Housing Program that the Federal Home Loan Banks have 
achieved over the course of the last year or two, are you fairly con- 
fident about the program at this stage or what? 

Mr. Evans. F1RREA created a scheme within which affordable 
housing would be, for lack of a better word, imposed on the system 
and the members. The Finance Board has tried its level best to try 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



68 

to meet both the letter and the spirit of the law. I must say, Mr. 
Kennedy, that the Federal Home Loan Banks have responded in 
kind. 

The proof of the pudding is the fact that our applications for 
those funds have far outstripped demands. We have done a few 
simple things to make it easier. My first act as chairman was for- 
bidding the staff from developing a form for the people in Iowa or 
wherever. Let those folks out there deal with their folks. 

Because it is a fixed percentage of our profits, the funds available 
this year were $53 million. Last year, it was closer to $80 million. 
That is the reason why we think we should drive up profits. As to 
why I said last time I consider the affordable housing element of 
FIRREA an agency's status, the performance has been outstanding. 
That is due to the imposition of FIRREA which we embraced and 
aggressively pursued and the fact that we have a whole host of, in 
fact, unpaid advisory committees throughout the country who tend 
to be representatives of the community-based organizations, those 
who put together the deals. 

We try very hard to monitor not only the funding of it but con- 
struction, are things up and running? Are people being housed. 
Right before our last appearance before this subcommittee, we held 
hearings out in the field and visited a few affordable housing sites. 
We heard some fascinating testimony from both the industry and 
from those who have benefited from it which gave us an insight 
into some of the problems we might look at. 

Mr. Kennedy. It should like you have been able to make the 
transition despite the initial shock or difficulties. You have been 
able to make the transition and feel considerably confident no only 
running the programs, but actually trying to assist the people on 
the ground in terms of some of the problems that they face as well, 
correct? 

Mr. Evans. Yes, sir. Absolutely. 

Mr. Kennedy. I am very interested in this. Yesterday, we heard 
testimony from the GSE and I think Jim Johnson himself indicated 
that he felt that the imposition of the 20-percent program would be 
very difficult because it was changing the mission of the GSE from, 
I quote as I recall, housing finance to housing subsidy. 

Yet it seems to me that this is a very find example of how a pro- 
gram like this in fact can be implemented through the institutions 
such as the Federal Home Loan Bank system or the GSEs. So it 
seems to me that the notion that somehow this is outside of their 
capacity and capabilities is really just inaccurate, if given an oppor- 
tunity that there are determining factors that would allow these 
programs to take place. 

Do you have a return on equity? Do you have any kind 

Mr. Evans. For the system? 

Mr. Kennedy. Yes. 

Mr. Evans. It is about 8 percent right now. 

Mr. Kennedy. I was interested to hear Mr. Glauber yesterday in- 
dicate that the GSE's return on equity is about 35 percent. So it 
seems to me that given an 8 percent return that generates still 52, 
$53 million and the ability of this program to succeed, certainly in- 
dicates a capacity on behalf of the GSEs to be able to implement 
programs as well. 



So I am delighted to hear that the program is moving forward. If 
we hear of some other issues that come along the way, I would like 
to come back and have further discussions with you. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Gonzalez. I just want to sum up here. With all of this 
and everybody touting the fact that the secondary market institu- 
tions, and others, that they are providing so much for housing, why 
is it that out among the people the reports are that the average 
family is priced out? They cannot afford to buy a home. 

If it is true that the banks now are originating more than, say, 
the home loan banks. I know there is something wrong. Banks, to 
begin with, the reason why the Congress in the 1930's agitated and 
finally produced the basic structure known as the home loan bank 
systems, which incidentally was really created during Herbert Hoo- 
ver's administration with that aim in mind, to allow for some 
availability of housing. 

But it was actually Mr. Hoover's program, the home loan bank 
systems. Then, with the advent of the deterioration of the economy 
and with the intense desire to allow the average American family 
to keep his home and not lose it — to whom? To the banks. You had 
the deposit insurance systems created and the other supporting 
mechanisms. 

Now, before the war started you had the additional PHA imple- 
mentation, which in effect was what later the SBA was intended to 
do and that was provide every little businessman access to credit 
below the market interest rates. 

It seems to me that he might have the statistics tending to show 
that, yes, X number of units have been disposed of one way or the 
other. But we don't have the true picture; that is, the average 
American family is priced out of home ownership at this time. 

There are differences. Our country is three or four times bigger 
than it was in the 1930's. Demographic changes have been tremen- 
dous, dramatic. The size of families in the urban areas who want 
home ownership has gone to lease-holding or renting, not home 
ownership. 

The Congress has not recognized that as such. We don't have any 
national legislation addressing the rights of tenants or dwellers, 
When it will, God only knows, but I think it will come only after 
social stress. We cannot for long continue to have the housing 
crisis this Nation has now without ultimately paying a price in 
social dislocation. 

You don't have to be a prophet to know that. If anybody is in 
touch with folks whether in the rural, in dense urban areas and/or 
in between, where you still have the bulk of the home ownership 
areas, the problem is very severe. I think the reason is that if we 
are going to depend on the banks to originate more home mort- 
gages, we are lost, but any time a bank has a chance to make on 1 
percent interest more on anything else, that is what it's going to 
go, so that if they are originating more home mortgages, it is be- 
cause, obviously, something is happening here. I think what it is is 
independence. 

Mr. Evans. Yes, the spreads are pretty good. 

Chairman Gonzalez. That's right. Now, in an attempt to try to 
provide a mechanism in place of that which has crumbled around 

D^izedbyGOOgle 



70 

our oars, though we still don't admit it, I advanced and lo and 
behold it was accepted in the housing bill last year, the national 
housing trust approach. 

We had a very specific target, first-time homebuyers, but we had 
to cap interest rates. We had understandings with the administra- 
tion and those on behalf of the administration with respect to that. 
It did become a part of the law, thank goodness, but with the inter- 
est rate cap which, I think, is the only way we will ever have any 
kind of a modicum of relief as far as home availability to every 
American family, not just the wealthy or the in between, but ev- 
erybody, will be when we can control that interest rate. 

The long-term fixed, 30-year mortgage which made it possible, 
the miracle of the ages because between 1940, more or less the in- 
ception of FHA, and 1980, the United States did something that no 
other nation has done in the 20th century. 

It housed its people, so that if you look at what happened after 
1982 and the emergence of this very distressing thing known as ho- 
melessness, you have cause and effect. You cannot abandon the na- 
tional commitment to housing without having something. 

So in an effort to do that, what I thought was that we would 
have the use of the S&L's because they are in place. They are a 
system that has experience in mortgage transactions and FHA and 
capping the interest rate. We could, with a minimum, with invest 
merit equal to about the cost of construction of about four or five 
B-l bombers, make a dent in this problem. 

So as I see it, the use of the mechanisms I saw in working the 
reality, eventually you have a national trust was the thrust of 
these mechanisms, in other words, preserving the experience of the 
home loan banks and FHA. They are in place. 

The thought was suggested by one or two academicians that 
some new structure be put in place. But I could not see why, if we 
had these that are experienced and have the knowledge that is in 
place now, why we could not use them. 

To me, it is very disturbing. I would still like to know when 
someone on your staff can get us the statistics on what is the aver- 
age size of the mortgage that the banks are financing. 

Mr. Evans. Mr. Chairman, your comments are entirely accurate. 
I am sitting here smiling. When I was a senior in law school, I ap- 
plied for a mortgage at a bank where I had my checking account. I 
was making $1,000 a month and I was turned down without expla- 
nation. 

Because I had a little bit of clout, I found out they were not 
making any mortgage loans that year. So I could have been 
making $125,000 a year and I would not have gotten the loan. You 
are right. The problem that we face is that the industry we serve is 
in fact shrinking and you see that in the performance of the Feder- 
al Home Loan District Banks is where it has shrunk the most. 

We have some areas where the advances in that district account 
for less than 4 percent of the funding in the district. One would 
argue the recommended advance of that particular district bank. 

We have others where they count for one quarter of the mort- 
gage funds. One doesn't need to argue the relevance. We need to 
tweek, twitch, shave and mold it to 1991 just as the chairman has 
tried to do through the national housing trust. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



71 

We feel the responsibility to see to it that our dollars go for hous- 
ing and that the implied taxpayer guarantee, which keeps our cost 
of funds low, somehow works its way through to benefit the mort- 
gagor. This subcommittee has made it clear that they consider our 
primary mission housing. 

You know the reason is substantial and sometimes a little ab- 
struse to try to understand. 

Chairman Gonzalez. You are a lot younger than I am. I don't 
know what the time period was when you applied to the bank. 

Mr. Evans. The recession of 1974-1975. 

Chairman Gonzalez. By that time you had the corrosive interest 
rate aberrations. 

Mr. Evans. They said I could have a loan at 16 percent. 

Chairman Gonzalez. In 1967 I was able, at a percentage rate of 
a little less than 6 'A, in February 1967, 1 obtained a loan by getting 
what, to me, was a substantial downpayment, and through the 
bank, because the interest rates — I thought it was very high that I 
had to pay 6. Less than 5 years later, the home that I entered into 
a contract to buy in 1953 for $7,000, I had an offer for $14,500. So I 
knew something was wrong. 

The house I bought in 1967 on a 15-year mortgage, and finally 
paid it out in 1982, and in the late 1970's, early 1980's, I was of- 
fered $225,000. 1 bought this house 

Mr. Evans. Let me know where you are going to buy your next 
house. 

Chairman Gonzalez. It is an old neighborhood. It is about 75 
years old— no central air or heating, but I got it for $13,000 in 1967. 
In less than 7 years I was offered $225,000. You know something is 
dead wrong, that you were getting into a very, very speculative at 
mosphere and of course this is what we are paying for now. 

I certainly agree with you and I am delighted to hear of your ap- 
proach and we want to compliment you. We are going to address 
your recommendations. 

Mr. Evans. When I was last here I was asked for a report on 
community commercial banks. We have done that, which might 
answer part of your question with respect to the lending practice of 
the smaller community banks that have a more direct connection 
with the home mortgage markets and the smaller communities 
they serve. 

I appreciate the opportunity to be here. 

Chairman Gonzalez. We in turn are grateful to you for your co- 
operation and the time you took out to he here on a Friday morn- 
ing. 

I apologize for the lack of membership present today. Sometimes 
the quality of two members can make up for the absence of others. 

Mr. Evans. I have no testimony on that subject. 

Mr. Kennedy. You don't? 

Chairman Gonzalez. I shouldn't have said anything. 

Anyway, thank you very much. 

Mr. Evans. Thank you. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Our first panel consists of Mr. Stephen 
Ashley, member of the executive committee of the Mortgage Bank- 
ers Association of America and the president and chief executive 
officer of the Sibley Mortgage Corp. of Rochester, NY; Mr. Rick 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



72 

Adams, chairman of the Conventional Mortgage Committee of the 
National Association of Realtors, and president, Independent Mort- 

fage Services of San Antonio; and Mr. Paul Barru, chairman of the 
tending Committee on Mortgage Finance of the National Associa- 
tion of Home Builders, of Littleton, CO; Mr. David F. Holland, 
chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Task Force, and chair- 
man and chief executive officer of the Boston Federal Savings 
Bank of Burlington, MA, on behalf of the U.S. League of Savings. 

I will ask our colleague Mr. Kennedy to introduce him when we 
get to his place. 

If there is no objection, why don't I recognize you in the order 
that I introduced you. None of you has a time problem. 

Mr. Ashley, thank you for being with us and thank you for your 
statement. I don't know if that was Burton Wood with you earlier. 

STATEMENT OF STEPHEN B. ASHLEY, CHAIRMAN OF THE LEGIS- 
LATIVE COMMITTEE, MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF 
AMERICA, AND CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, 
SIBLEY MORTGAGE CORP., ROCHESTER, NY 
Mr. Ashley. Burton Wood is here. It was Mike Ferrell with me, 
Mr. Chairman, when I was introduced to you. 
Chairman Gonzalez. You may proceed as you deem best. 
Mr. Ashley. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kennedy, thank you very much 
for the opportunity to be here. 

My name is Steve Ashley. I am chief executive officer of the 
Sibley Mortgage Corp., headquartered in Rochester, NY. I am serv- 
ing as MBA's legislative committee chairman. We appreciate the 
opportunity to appear before you today to testify regarding H.R. 
2900, which seeks to increase the financial safety and soundless of 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

MBA supports adequate capitalization for FHLMC and FNMA, 
as well as appropriate regulation of their continued safety and 
soundness. However, capital and regulatory requirements should 
also be sensitive to their housing mission. Such requirements 
should also be clearly related to specific risks associated with the 
different types of mortgages, investment securities, and guarantees 
provided by FHLMC (Freddie Mac) and FNMA (Fannie Mae). 

MBA believes that in light of the types of risks incurred by the 
agencies and their ongoing strategies for controlling interest rate 
and credit risk, excessive capital requirements are not necessary 
and, in fact, would limit credit availability and raise interest rates 
for homebuyers. 

MBA urges a measured response that will establish appropriate 
capital standards that adjust with dynamic changes as they take 
place in the market or with the development of new products. 

In attaining mandated capital requirements, FHLMC and FNMA 
should strive to preserve mortgage credit affordability. Fees and 
charges to seller/servicers should bear a direct relationship to the 
risk of the type of mortgages purchased or guarantees provided. 

We believe that HUD is the most appropriate regulator, if HUD 
is provided sufficient support to give it the capacity and expertise 
to perform this job credibly. We believe that HUD has the "will" so 
long as it is given the resources to have the "way." We believe as- 



73 

sessments against FNMA and FHLMC should fund program moni- 
toring and oversight. 

HUD understands the housing support and mortgage credit role 
that these corporations fulfill. HUD should be given the financial 
management support necessary to monitor and evaluate FHLMC 
and FNMA and to enforce requirements necessary to ensure that 
FHLMC and FNMA maintain their financial soundness and their 
ability to play a meaningful role in providing housing and mort- 
gage credit. 

MBA supports regulatory reviews and enforcement powers to 
ensure safety and soundness to protect taxpayers from the poten- 
tial of any Federal expenditures on behalf of these corporations 
arising from any implicit guarantee. The business operations of 
FHLMC and FNMA should be monitored and subject to examina- 
tion, audit, and enforcement actions. 

However, this regulatory control should be sensitive to the neces- 
sity of these corporations to operate flexibly in fast-paced financial 
markets. The ability to innovate and create new mortgage pro- 
grams to meet ever-changing consumer needs should not be stifled. 

The stark reality of our ongoing budget deficits has put tremen- 
dous pressure on the government s ability to dedicate adequate re- 
sources to housing and has resulted in the reining in of programs 
to enhance mortgage credit opportunities for Americans. The role 
of FHLMC and FNMA will be even more important in the years to 
come. 

The statutory changes to FHA that were enacted last year in the 
housing bill will, in MBA's opinion, seriously erode the role that 
FHA has historically served, which was to ensure a stable supply 
of low downpayment mortgage insurance for low-, moderate- and 
middle-income borrowers, particularly first-time homebuyers. 

We believe that recent statutory changes taken in tandem with 
HUD's aggressive regulatory interpretations will weaken FHA's ef- 
fectiveness as a tool to help deliver affordable mortgage credit. 

We hope that FHLMC and FNMA will be able to enhance their 
role in ensuring stable supplies of affordable, low downpayment 
mortgage credit that the private mortgage insurance industry will 
provide the necessary backstop to FNMA-FHLMC's purchase and 
securities programs. 

Likewise, in the area of multifamily mortgage credit, HUD's 
active role has been significantly diminished. FNMA and FHLMC 
with their sophistication and market presence can and should 
ensure that a market exists for soundly underwritten multifamily 
projects as well, including those projects that would serve low- and 
moderate-income families. 

In the last year there has been an increase in the number of tax 
credits gone unused because of the lack of availability of mortgage 
financing. This problem has been particularly acute in Michigan, 
California and has affected Massachusetts. The Boston Capital 
Group and the Boston Financial Group have specifically been 
unable to complete tax credit deals because of the lack of financ- 
ing. 

H.R. 2900 requires the HUD Secretary to give written, prior ap- 
proval to any new program. MBA is strongly opposed to this expan- 
sive power, because we believe it will stifle innovation and can be 



74 

used to further political or philosophical objectives that have noth- 
ing to do with safety or soundness considerations. 

So long as FNMA and FHLMC are healthy, they should be free 
to initiate programs that respond to rapidly changing markets and 
economic environments. We believe that the risk-based capital re- 
quirements will serve as adequate controls on new products where 
the potential for risk, due to lack of market experience, is a con- 
cern. 

MBA supports the risk-based capital requirements contained in 
this bill. We are particularly pleased to see that specific statutory 
factors are included for determining risk-based capital. 

However, MBA opposes the undefined discretion of OSMEO to in- 
crease the add-on component covering operations and management 
risk. We believe that the 20 percent add-on requirement already 
anticipates a cushion for risk. At a minimum, standards for the ex- 
ercise of a discretionary increase should be clearly delineated in 
the statute. 

MBA believes that strong capital requirements are necessary to 

{irotect the government from contingent liability. If those capital 
evels are being achieved, however, we believe quite strongly that 
interference in day-to-day operations, program and financing deci- 
sions, et cetera, should be left in the hands of the management and 
boards of the entities. 

MBA opposes the cap on salaries, but supports language requir- 
ing that salaries be 'comparable" to other similar businesses. 
FNMA and FHLMC are large, sophisticated corporations, which 
must be able to pay competitive salaries in order to attract and 
retain top flight talented employees. 

MBA supports the requirement that FNMA and FHLMC must 
devote a "reasonable portion" of their single-family and multifam- 
ily mortgage purchases to low- and moderate-income families. 

MBA believes that one of the primary housing affordability con- 
cerns today is the difficulty that first-time homebuyers have in ac- 
cumulating savings for a downpayment. We would urge that stimu- 
lating homeownership for this target group should be a specific 
goal. 

Lack of available multifamily mortgage credit, particularly for 
low-income projects, is a serious problem today, particularly for 
older properties. 

FHLMC has been out of the multifamily market for over a year, 
although they are gearing up for a new program. This has had a 
devastating impact on multifamily mortgage financing. 

FNMA, while it has remained in the market, has fairly Btringent 
underwriting guidelines which tend to favor newer projects. 

HUD has only begun to implement its delegated processing pro- 
gram and so its activities are confined primarily to full insurance 
HUD processed loans. 

The problem is not so much one of lack of equity, but the lack of 
financing avenues. There are instances today of low-income tax 
credit projects that are not being closed, because of lack of avail- 
able financing. 

The bill mandates an affordable housing program funded by 
FNMA and FHLMC at a level of 20 percent of their previous year s 
dividends. 



75 

MBA opposes this particular solution for several reasons. 

First, the program would be funded as a tax on homeowners, 
who are the ultimate source of FNMA/FHLMC revenues. 

Second, and most importantly, the program would not result in 
significant levels of funding for multifamily housing. 

We believe that more units would be produced, even for the 
needy families targeted by this proposal, with an affirmative re- 
quirement to finance a specified number of units. 

MBA strongly believes that FNMA and FHLMC must shoulder 
the burden of enhancing housing opportunities, as well as enjoy the 
benefit of profitably ensuring stable supplies of mortgage credit. 

We would welcome the opportunity to work with the subcommit- 
tee in devising methods to ensure a strong commitment by FHLMC 
and FNMA to affordable multifamily rental housing and to innova- 
tive programs, particularly for first-time homebuyers. 

Although there are concerns with H.R. 2900, MBA believes that 
the proposal represents a measured approach that can accommo- 
date the dual objectives of safety and soundness with the public 
mission to promote housing affordability and mortgage credit avail- 
ability. 

We believe that a capital-driven and growth-constrained business 
will invest only in gold-plated product, which is not the public 
policy mission Congress conferred by charter. FNMA and FHLMC 
are unique in that they were chartered as private companies with 
public missions. This broad service to American families, which has 
worked well and has earned strong, continuing support from policy 
makers, housing advocates, and homebuyers would be discontinued 
if safety and soundness concerns were followed without concern for 
the public mission of FNMA and FHLMC. 

MBA appreciates the opportunity to testify before this subcom- 
mittee and will provide answers to questions or requests for addi- 
tional information, if needed. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Ashley can be found in the ap- 
pendix.] 

Chairman Gonzalez. Mr. Adams. 

If you will yield to me, I understand you are from San Antonio? 

Mr. Adams. Yes, I am, sir. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Let me welcome you aboard, as a fellow 
San Antonian, and thank you for appearing here. I think you are 
here on behalf of the realtors. I want to thank you and all our 
friends back in San Antonio. 

STATEMENT OF RICK ADAMS, CHAIRMAN OF THE REAL ESTATE 
FINANCE CONVENTIONAL MORTGAGE COMMITTEE, NATIONAL 
ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS, AND PRESIDENT, INDEPENDENT 
MORTGAGE SERVICES OF SAN ANTONIO 

Mr. Adams. Thank you. I was going to begin by offering a San 
Antonio "buenos dias" to you and Mr. Kennedy. 

My name is Rick Adams. I am a realtor from San Antonio, TX, 
and the chairman of the Real Estate Finance Conventional Mort- 
gage Committee. On behalf of the approximately 780,000 members 
of the National Association of Realtors, I am pleased to have the 
opportunity to present this association's views on legislative pro- 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



76 

posals designed to enhance the financial safety and soundness and 
ensure the continued viability of Government Sponsored Enter- 
prises (GSEs), specifically the Federal National Mortgage Associa- 
tion (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corpora- 
tion (Freddie Mac). This legislation provides an excellent start for 
legislation on Government Sponsored Enterprises, specifically 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

As a preface to my discussion regarding II. R. 2900, the associa- 
tion requests as the subcommittee considers this legislation it do so 
within the context that we are not in the same place and time as 
we were in August 1989. In 1989, Congress just enacted FIRREA to 
save the crisis-riddled thrift industry and its depositors at a start- 
ing cost of $50 billion. 

At that time Congress' concern that GSE's contingent liability of 
$800 billion represented the next financial crisis to the taxpayer 
mandated several studies be done to determine if they were indeed 
safe and sound. As part of the Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1990, 
both Houses of Congress passed resolutions calling for the consider- 
ation of legislation to regulate GSEs by September 15 of this year. 

Today, the benefit of seven studies confirms that Freddie Mac 
and Fannie Mae are financially healthy and strong even under the 
most stressful conditions. We believe any legislation should be 
guided by these conclusions. 

Moreover, any legislation must balance and not sublimate the 
GSE's national housing mission with the legitimate safety and 
soundness concerns. Regulatory intervention should be early 
enough to prevent losses to the American taxpayer. 

However, where a GSE is adequately capitalized, regulatory in- 
clusion should be kept to a minimum and should not interfere with 
the day-to-day management or decision making of those entities. 

Mr. Chairman, we believe your legislation embodies a reasonable 
and sound approach to GSE capitalization and regulation. Your 
proposed regulatory oversight framework is workable. 

We recommend certain provisions be fine-tuned to accomplish 
the desired results. First, we support the incorporation in the bill 
of a specific risk-based test. We believe Congress and not the regu- 
lators should make the determination. 

A statutory stress test also provides clear parameters in which to 
evaluate the GSE's performance. We oppose provisions which 
would permit the regulator to alter the capital levels for manage- 
ment and operations risk. 

Second, we are opposed to provisions which would permit the 
new director to require additional capital when new programs and 
products are offered even after the GSE has demonstrated its ade 
quate capitalization on the application of these stress tests. 

The association believes this represents an unnecessary level of 
regulatory intrusion which will hinder the development of special 
housing products. 

Third, we support provisions in your legislation which would 
place the new USE safety and soundness regulator within HUD. 
We would go one step further and recommend the safety and 
soundness regulator and the program regulator be one and the 



77 

Mr. Chairman, the National Association of Realtors supports the 
activities and public policy mission of the federally chartered sec- 
ondary mortgage markets operation. Their rule is crucial and nec- 
essary in the home mortgage finance system. Federal oversight of 
GSE activity is most proper and necessary. 

We commend you for your thoughtful approach and proposed so- 
lution to the issue. 

This concludes my oral statement. I would certainly be welcome 
to answer any questions the subcommittee may have. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Adams can be found in the ap- 
pendix.] 

Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you, Mr. Adams. That is very effi- 
cient of you. Your entire statement, which was I think very com- 
plete — I wanted to compliment you on that — will be in the record 
following your oral testimony. I wanted to thank you for it. It was 
very good, very appropriate. 

Mr. Adams. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Mr. Barru. 

STATEMENT OF PAUL BARRU, CHAIRMAN, NATIONAL ASSOCIA- 
TION OF HOME BUILDERS, MORTGAGE FINANCE COMMITTEE 

Mr. Barru. Mr. Chairman, I am Paul Barru. I am a home build- 
er from Littleton, CO. I am here representing the National Associa- 
tion of Home Builders, and currently serve as the chairman of 
their Committee on Mortgage Finance. 

I want to thank you for the opportunity to make remarks in ad- 
dition to our written statement, and share a few thoughts to make 
to highlight our concerns. 

Firet of all, we are very pleased that you have taken the leader- 
ship in introducing H.R. 2900, which on balance we think is an ad- 
mirable approach to the issue of GSE financing. 

On the other hand, we are very nervous every time a new piece 
of legislation comes out. We have memories of unintended conse- 
quences that have occurred over the last decade since we began tin- 
kering with the thrift operations in 1979, changing tax laws in 
1979, 1980 and then 1986 with a devaluation of real estate values, 
and then the FIRREA legislation. 

There are usually unintended consequences that occur if people 
work too fast. I heard you say that to a group of us from the home 
builders who have visited you in chambers at the time the FIRREA 
legislation was going through, that you were concerned we were 
working too fast and had not thought through the consequences. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Will you yield to me there? 

You are right, of course, we live in a day and time when you 
have a problem, so you do one of two things. You either pass a bill 
and you get the bill passed, and then everybody says we solved the 
problem, or you have a constitutional amendment or try to work 
towards a constitutional amendment as if that is going to solve it. 

There were very fundamental things that I was hoping we would 
address 2 years ago and not be rushed into a quickie resolution at 
just the S&L level. I felt — and I still do — and I think events now 
prove that we were bound to look into the overall reform of what 
has turned out to be called the deposit insurance system. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



78 

My contention was that the big mistake was that everybody was 
dealing with the S&L as if it was in an orbit all to itself where, as 
you know, out in the world you are competing with many other fi- 
nancial activities. Unfortunately, we didn't see it that way. 

Structurally, the other reason I felt we were acting too fast was 
the bill the President sent us first in February would provide, for 
instance, RTC, a three-member board to consist of the Attorney 
General, the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, and the Sec- 
retary of the Treasury. I couldn't understand that. So we had to 
fight like dogs to finally get the Secretary of HUD to be placed on 
that board. 

I felt that to allow the FDIC Chairman to wear two hats was not 
good. I didn't think, given the tremendous overhang of the REO 
office out there that RTC would be dealing with, that the track 
record of the FDIC indicated they had any kind of experience in 
that area. 

I think events have shown that the two hats Mr. Seidman has 
tried to wear has led to some very serious problems. But these are 
things that in retrospect nobody remembers. I am grateful to you 
for remembering that I was. 

I have always said that fast government tends to be dangerous 
government. It is the same thing here today. You know, we are 
under the gun because other members — in fact, in the tax-writing 
committee wanting to exercise jurisdiction over these entities as 
well as others in other committee jurisdictions did impose on the 
budget resolution language a requirement that this be looked into 
and some action be forthcoming mis year. 

That doesn't necessarily mean that I succumb to being stamped- 
ed, but we are in good faith proceeding expeditiously. You are 
right. I, too, shudder when I think of the processes. We can start 
something, but we don't know where it is going to end because you 
have to go through the amendatory process, you have got to go to 
the full House, you have to work with the Senate and then have a 
conference. 

I want to let you know that I deeply appreciate your memory 
there and also that I hear the sense of misgivings. Yet, we have to 
face it, and we will do the best we know how. 

Mr. Barru. Thank you. 

Let me continue on that track because basically we feel that in 
the face of a major credit crunch in the United States, the one area 
that has not Buffered any shortage is mortgage finance. That is be- 
cause we have a functioning GSE system. Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac has filled the gap when other elements in the arena of hous- 
ing finance have fallen by the wayside and failed to pick up their 
share of the load. 

The thrifts have diminished in their role. The banks have dimin- 
ished. From my point of view, there is an old adage. If the system 
isn't broke, don't fix it. Provide preventive maintenance. 

Preventive maintenance is oversight for capital adequacy. Pre- 
ventive maintenance is making sure they fulfill their proper public 
policy role. If you start imposing new major requirements on a 
system that is working when the rest of the financial system is 
having trouble fulfilling the requirements of housing in America, I 
worry about the unintended consequences. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



79 

Truly, I want Fannie Mae to continue to provide money for low- 
cost housing. I want Freddie Mac to get into that market. 

Housing affordability is a major issue from our association's 
point of view. But to impose a quota, we don't know what the con- 
sequences of that will be in the affordability quotient of all other 
mortgage finance. We are really more interested in seeing this 
occur by a constant monitoring and an encouragement of increas- 
ing their role in that rather than establishing a quota at any given 
point. 

The second point we would like to make is we would like to see 
the total housing finance system addressed at once. That means 
banks, banking reform. That means the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board. That means the GSE system. To separate them and to treat 
them individually is to do a disjustice to housing finance. 

Our major problem right now is not mortgage finance. Our major 
problem right now is the ability to produce housing. It is housing 
production money. Unfortunately, people who are in the housing 
business are viewed by Wall Street, by the banking community, 
and I am afraid by many Members of the Congress as being in the 
real estate business. 

I would like to give you an analogy. Automobile makers are not 
viewed as being in the steel business because the primary product 
that they use in making their automobiles is steel. We use land to 
produce lost upon which we build houses. That doesn't mean we 
are in the real estate business. It means that real estate happens to 
be the raw material of our business. 

We need credit to provide money to build homes. We would like 
to have this subcommittee and the Congress of the United States 
examine some of the recommendations we have made to broaden 
the powers of the Federal Home Loan Bank System in two specific 
ways. 

One is to provide for their involvement in the entire spectrum of 
housing finance. The production of lots, the construction of homes 
as well as mortgage financing. We would argue that that part of 
the thrift problem was a very insignificant part of the total REO 
problem that RTC and FIRREA was addressing. Therefore, we 
think it is something that, prudently done, can enhance the role of 
housing and needs to be looked at. 

Second, we are concerned that mega-banks will not deal with the 
typical homebuilder. Therefore, the Federal Home Loan Bank 
System really has to make a level playing field to allow small com- 
munity banks to begin to fill the role of thrifts that have failed in 
many, many parts of the country and left many communities with- 
out thrifts to provide the traditional role of the housing lender in 
that community. 

We think that if this legislation can be looked upon as part of a 
whole package that addresses not only mortgage credit, but hous- 
ing credit in its fullness, that it will serve the concern that the 
chairman and other members of this subcommittee have classically 
addressed. That is the housing affordability and availability quo- 
tient. 

Thank you for the opportunity to make these few comments. I 
will be glad to answer questions. Obviously, I appreciate the atten- 
tion you have given to our full written report. 

D^izedbyGOOgle 



Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you. 

Again, as in the case of the other witnesses, your prepared text, 
which again I compliment you for, is very full, complete, will be in 
the record. I want to thank you. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Barru can be found in the appen- 
dix.] 

Chairman Gonzalez. Mr. Holland. 

STATEMENT OF DAVID F. HOLLAND, CHAIRMAN, FEDERAL HOME 
LOAN BANK TASK FORCE, AND CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECU- 
TIVE OFFICER, BOSTON FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK, BURLING- 
TON, MASSACHUSETTS, ON BEHALF OF THE VS. LEAGUE OF 
SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS 

Mr. Holland. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and Congressman Ken- 
nedy. 

My name is David Holland. I am Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer of Boston Federal Savings Bank, which is a $550 million 

SAIF-insured savings bank 

Chairman Gonzalez. Excuse me. Will you yield to me? I neglect- 
ed to ask Mr. Kennedy to introduce you. You may be a constituent. 
I don't know. Forgive me for not calling him. 

Mr. Kennedy. Thank you. You effectively introduced Mr. Hol- 
land earlier in the day. He happens to be the Chairman of the Fed- 
eral Home Loan Bank Task Force, and the present Chief Executive 
Officer of the Boston Federal Savings Bank from Burlington, Mas- 
sachusetts. He is not a constituent unless he happens to live in the 
congressional district. Burlington, at least at this stage of the 
game, is not part of my district. On behalf of — which could change 
in the next few months. 

In any event, we look forward to hearing your testimony, Mr. 
Holland. I appreciate you coming down from Boston to inform us 
today. Thank you. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Mr. Holland. Thank you. Thank you. Congressman Kennedy. 
I appreciate the opportunity to be here. To begin with, we want 
to commend you and the other sponsors of the proposed Govern- 
ment-Sponsored Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Sound- 
ness Act of 1991. We believe it is essential that the Nation develop 
a new framework for dealing with the housing GSEs. 

We believe your proposals set the stage for the development of 
that new framework. In particular, we want you to know that we 
strongly support your efforts in two areas: Promoting safety and 
soundness, and promoting low- and middle-income housing. 

During my testimony today, I want to address the major areas of 
this proposed legislation. We believe your proposals are essential, 
and headed in the right direction. We do believe, however, that the 
proposals don't go far enough, and would like to see them strength- 
ened. 

We also would like to briefly address the issue of the Federal 
Home Loan Bank System. As you know, the future of the Federal 
Home Loan Bank System is of vital interest to the thrift business. 
As Chairman Evans commented on in his testimony, he is absolute- 
ly correct that the remaining segment of the thrift industry is very 



81 

profitable, is very successful, and has a relatively strong level of 
capital which is increasing every day. 

We need the Federal Home Loan Bank System to continue our 
commitment to housing, including the affordable housing compo- 
nent. 

We strongly support the efforts in the proposed legislation to in- 
crease the availability of financing for affordable housing and to 
improve the safety and soundness of the GSEs. 

With respect to affordable housing, we support the provisions to 
improve the targeting of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae lending to 
low- and middle-income families. We applaud the definition of 
these groups. We suggest that the Congress determine in this stat- 
ute the appropriate percentage of these entities' lending that 
should go to families in need. 

We believe this percentage should be significant and that it 
should be increased over each of the next several years. 

In addition, we endorse the efforts to include Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac in the affordable housing effort. We believe that the 
20 percent of dividends figure would be roughly equal to the 
amount now being contributed by the Federal Home Loan Banks, 
and would be even lower when tax-affected. We would hope that 
provisions could be added which provide for this percentage to in- 
crease comparably with the scheduled increases in the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Program. 

With respect to capital, the U.S. League believes that all finan- 
cial institutions, including the housing GSEs, need strong capital 
and aggressive supervision. The debacle of the 1980 s has taught us 
this lesson all too well. We support the application of the current 
international risk-based capital rules to Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac and to the Federal Home Loan Bank System. 

Further, we support the CBO's contention that there should be 
capital requirement equity between the three housing GSEs, 
Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Federal Home Loan Banks. Thus, we 
would urge the subcommittee to reevaluate this issue. 

Finally, the thrift industry views the future of the Federal Home 
Loan Banks as vital to its own future. Although the Federal Home 
Loan Bank System remains strong, there are valid concerns about 
its future. The Bank System has been shrinking along with the 
thrift business. This has not been a problem in the past, but it is 
now, with the passage of FIRREA. 

In the past, the system was able to expand and contract effort- 
lessly in response to changing demands for advances. 

Now, as the system shrinks, the {300 million lump-sum annual 
fee paid by the Bank System for REFCORP becomes an increasing- 
ly untenable burden. We urge that this fee be changed from a 
lump sum to a percentage of income basis. 

We do not agree with those who suggest the changes are reason 
for panic. We do not support suggestions that the Bank System 
should get into new, risky activities to boost its earnings. Neither 
the capital our institutions have invested, nor the taxpayer, should 
be at risk by banks getting involved in such activities. 

We also are very concerned about proposals to change commer- 
cial bank membership and stock purchase requirements. We be- 
lieve that the current system is fair, given existing mandatory 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



membership and thrift QTL requirements. The current member- 
ship system is disadvantageous to SAIF-insured savings institu- 
tions, since they must belong to the Federal Home Loan Bank 
System, and are forced to purchase stock from the system, even if 
they don't borrow from it. 

Savings institutions are denied access to the Federal Home Loan 
Bank advances if they fall below the test. We support a leveling of 
the playing field by making all membership in the Federal Home 
Loan Bank System voluntary. We believe the advantages of belong- 
ing to the Bank System, the access to liquidity and the long-term 
advances for housing loans will cause a great majority of our insti- 
tutions to continue their membership. 

The Boston District Bank, to which I belong and of which am 
also a member of the board of directors currently, is a real-life lab- 
oratory to study the effects of voluntary membership. In my Dis- 
trict, about 70 percent of the institutions belong voluntarily and 
show no inclination to cease being members. 

If we can achieve voluntary membership for all members, we be- 
lieve stock purchase and other membership requirements should 
also be the same for all members. We vehemently oppose, though, 
any change unless the voluntary membership is granted to savings 
institutions. 

Once again, the U.S. League of Savings Institutions strongly sup- 
ports the subcommittee's efforts. We want to thank you for this op- 
portunity to make our views known. I would be pleased to respond 
to any questions you may have or to supply additional information 
to my oral and written testimony. 

Thank you very much. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Holland can be found in the ap- 
pendix.] 

Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you for your prepared text. Again, I 
thought it was very detailed and very good, very helpful. 

On page 5 of the prepared text that you gave us, Mr. Holland, 
you say Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's capital levels not only 
give them a huge competitive advantage over private firms, but 
also an advantage relative to the Federal Home Loan Bank 
System, which contains equity as a percent of total obligations 
equal to 7.5 times that of Fannie Mae and almost 12 times that of 
Freddie Mac. 

It is more or less what our first witness said earlier today. But I 
was going to ask Mr. Ashley if he had any comment on that obser- 
vation, and the assertion that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are 
unfair competitors in that respect over the thrifts, and if that im- 
pacts or affects mortgage financing? 

Mr. Ashley. Mr. Chairman, I would be glad to comment. Certain- 
ly in our prepared testimony and my spoken testimony, we indicat- 
ed that we felt that Fannie and Freddie, because of their congres- 
sional charter, enjoy a very unique situation in the capital market 
housing — housing capital market structure that exists in the coun- 
try today. 

However, I would tend to reject the idea that the playing field is 
unlevel. The thrift and banking industry enjoys benefits of deposit 
insurance that I think tend to level that field. I would ask the sub- 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



committee to be cognizant of that as we balance my colleagues' tes- 
timony with our thoughts. 

Chairman Gonzalez. I didn't bring that up with our first wit- 
ness. We had this statement, written statement — and I placed it in 
the record — we need the RTC Board, but the industry advisory 
committee that FIRREA mandated for the SAIF insurance fund 
sent us a letter saying they would be insolvent in the not-too-dis- 
tant future, bo we are having problems there. 

You do bring up an important aspect, which is the deposit insur- 
ance guarantees of full faith and credit of the government. In your 
statement, you express some concern about FHA being able to con- 
tinue, at least in an active role, to finance adequately housing 
mortgages, home mortgages and the like. 

Could you enlarge on that? You know, that was our big debate 
last year in the case of the Housing Act. We still have a great deal 
of concern. We have not obtained the reports earlier this year that 
we were hoping we would get in order to see, for instance 57 per- 
cent requirement announced by the formulation of the regulations 
which I have expressed disagreement with. 

But, nevertheless, it was implemented that way. So, I am very 
much concerned and want to know if perhaps you have some statis- 
tical or other knowledge about this danger that FHA may not be in 
a position to do the job that it ought to be doing. 

Mr. Ashley. Mr. Chairman, I can only share with you our indus- 
try's deep concern about the ability of FHA to continue its mission 
of serving particularly first-time homebuyers. I would cite specifi- 
cally the Housing Act that you referenced as being, in our view, 
detrimental to that mission. 

When you have increased downpayment requirements, have re- 
moved the options of the higher level of loan value ratios, you have 
made the monthly cost to the homebuycr higher, you raise that 
threshold for the first-time homebuyer. 

They must have more income to qualify. They must have more 
cash available at closing to qualify. That indeed has happened. In 
my own situation, in our company, we have seen the number of 
FHA loans that we are able to qualify drop by between 20 and 25 
percent. 

That is 20 and 25 percent of the homebuying market that is now 
closed out from the opportunity to buy into the American Dream. 
We feel very strongly that corrective action needs to be taken. We 
also feel that there may be some opportunities for Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac to fill some of that void. 

Mr. Barru. Mr. Chairman, could I comment? 

Chairman Gonzalez. Certainly, Mr. Barru. 

Mr. Barru. The Denver market builds approximately 1 percent 
of the Nation's housing stock every year and originates 4 percent 
of the total number of FHA loans originated during the average 
year. 

At a meeting of our local association of FHA builders yesterday, 
we quantified the actual cost of the new FHA regulations for the 
first-time homebuyer on our typical threshold home. 

It raised the downpayment $1,500 per homebuyer and it raised 
the income requirement by $2,000 of annual income. We feel that 
that is going to take somewhere between 20 and 30 percent of the 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



84 

first-time homebuyers out of the qualifying market by virtue of the 
new regulations. 

This was being discussed as part of the additional HUD regula- 
tions that are corning out on energy efficiency that we think will 
again only make the problem more serious for the first-time home- 
buyer. It is another place where we are saying people are doing one 
thing here and another thing here, and they are not looking at the 
whole picture. 

We are rapidly, with these actions, eroding the affordability of 
housing for the first-time homebuyer. 

Chairman Gonzalez. The implementation of the act is what we 
have been concerned with, and the percentage requirement, 57 per- 
cent. We objected strenuously. However, at the time what we did 
was reach some form of compromise. 

I had suggested something, but it was rejected mostly because I 
think OMB sat down on their territory. I had both of our minority 
ranking Members on the subcommittee and full committee with me 
on it. What we did, we cut right below the budget. It never ac- 
counted for this $1,500 downpayment figure — your upfront cost 
there. 

So it is a matter of considerable concern to us, and that is the 
reason I was raising the issue. 

In anticipating some of the witnesses we will have on the third 
panel with respect to the need for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to 
develop more flexible underwriting criteria to meet the needs of 
the low-income community, do you believe that this type of change 
would increase the availability of mortgage credit in urban areas 
and in low-income communities? I will ask that of any member of 
the panel because you are all out there. 

Is there some conclusion to be reached that that would be a like- 
lihood of attainment? 

Mr. Adams. Mr. Chairman, I think that Fannie and Freddie's 
past track record as far as housing to all areas, the affordable hous- 
ing issue I think proves itself that they are constantly innovating. 
Again, one of the big benefits of entities such as Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac is their ability to innovate new market products to re- 
spond to certain market needs. I think we can look at their past 
record and think that will continue. 

They are constantly reevaluating underwriting guidelines to try 
to target certain areas such as the affordable housing areas, initia- 
tives they are taking with Michigan and other State and local 
housing agencies' programs that they are trying as far as pilots go 
to see if something more sustained could be adapted. 

I think, quite simply, suffice to say that is one of their focused 
missions, is to innovate and develop new programs to deal with 
those segments. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Mr. Barru. 

Mr. Barru. Mr. Chairman, one of the basic problems of what I 
am perceiving to be a tiered underwriting system that favors low- 
income housing for Fannie Mae is the requirement that they have 
low downpayment mortgages insured. 

The private mortgage insurance industry becomes a part of the 
safety factor for their operation. That industry is not willing to 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



Insure. The role of FHA has been precisely to insure the higher 
risk mortgages. 

What is happening when we went to the periodic half-a-point 
that did not require anything upfront and had a working system, 
and everybody said all we are doing right now is putting a present 
value on that periodic and getting it all in cash upfront and then 
financing the whole thing. We changed the whole equation and had 
the unintended consequences of insuring unsafe mortgages by 
making the loan to value over the total value of the house. There- 
fore, when there was a walkaway, the losses to the fund were sig- 
nificant. You try to put that kind of an imposition without private 
mortgage insurance on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and you are 
going to have the same kind of consequences. 

This is what we mean when we talk about unintended conse- 
quences in asking a private sector to try to fulfill the role that the 
public sector was not able to fulfill because it hadn't really looked 
at the consequences of changes it was making. 

Mr. Ashley. Mr. Chairman, 1 would like to adjust a couple of 
thoughts to that. It strikes me that there are perhaps some ways 
that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can be more aggressive in this 
area without adding unnecessarily to the risk burden. We have 
talked about the problems currently with the FHA Program. 

We could work with your staff and suggest some changes. Per- 
haps some would require charter changes that would enable Fred- 
die and Fannie to take higher ratio loans, that would enable them 
to use as part of the downpayment housing credits that may flow 
from State and local housing agents, agencies, this type of thing. 
Could work with them and your staff on the guidelines for commu- 
nity renewal areas where there is a need for housing credit to flow. 

I am particularly concerned about the multi-family program. I 
referenced that in my spoken testimony. We need multi-family fi- 
nancing more than we need multi-family credits right now to make 
that flow of capital and new construction work. 

We have good programs presently in Fannie Mae. They tend to 
favor newer properties, larger properties. We are concerned with 
the concentration of the flow of that credit through lenders. 

We feel strongly they need to keep an active, viable program 
that will tend to keep multi-family credit moving into the smaller 
co mmun ities that may not be served by dust lenders. These are 
thing that I think address the question that can be positive and 
work toward the issues that we are concerned on and the afford- 
ability issue. 

Mr. Holland. To also respond, I think that relaxing or reducing 
the underwriting standards would, in fact, make housing more af- 
fordable. But we have to, I think, be very careful and strike a 
proper balance between making housing more affordable and the 
risks of lowering underwriting standards because Freddie Mac and 
Fannie Mae are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Gov- 
ernment. 

One maybe more effective way to provide low-cost housing is a 
program in place now by the Federal Home Loan Bank System 
which is the Affordable Housing Program which reduces the inter- 
est rate. The standards remain the same, but the rate gets reduced 
in order to accommodate low- and moderate-income housing. 



That has been done very effectively. 

Also, it goes beyond just the rate, too. Rate is only a small por- 
tion, I think. The real issue is the cost of housing. Banks are will- 
ing to participate and do their fair share with the encouragement 
of Congress. 

We are willing to continue to do that. We have to look at other 
ways to make housing affordable. 

One last comment regarding the deposit insurance comment that 
Mr. Ashley made with regard to a level playing field. I guess I 
would have a slightly different point of view. I would say that the 
member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, by virtue 
of paying for deposit insurance, puts them at a competitive disad- 
vantage because it is an additional cost that have to incur that, in 
fact, gets ultimately passed onto the consumer. 

Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae enjoy all the same guarantees of 
the full faith and credit, but they don t have to deal with the depos- 
it insurance premium. They don't have that cost. I would have a 
different point of view on that subject. 

Mr. Ashley. 1 respect Mr. Holland's different point of view. 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac do pay taxes, I would add. 

Chairman Gonzalez. It is interesting, Mr. Holland. You referred 
to the fact that both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have the full 
faith and credit of the U.S. Government, that they are fully guar- 
anteed. Well, there is a great dispute about it. I was interested to 
see your statement or assertion in your opinion that they do have 
that. There is a big controversy over whether it is an implicit or 
explicit guarantee or what have you. 

I think the fundamental thing there is that from the beginning 
once the idea was carried out to provide this type of activity 
through the help, as small as it might be, of the government in the 
market place that what we have is quasi-public or private, which- 
ever, point of view, enterprise. 

But to what extent that means that the full faith and credit of 
the government is involved is a question that there is quite a bit of 
argument about. But I was interested to see that you are of the 
mind that that is so. 

Mr. Holland. I appreciate that distinction, Mr. Chairman. I 
would add in the concept of too-big-tc-fail, used in connection with 
commercial banks primarily, I think might also apply to Freddie 
Mac and Fannie Mae. 

Chairman Gonzalez. That abomination, I have challenged that 
from the beginning since 1984. The first time that was really an- 
nounced was in the case of the Continental Illinois by Chairman 
Volcker. There is nothing in the law that sanctions that anymore 
than there was anything or is anything in the law that says that 
uninsured shall be paid out as if they were insured. 

There is nothing in the law. Research that. 

But it took 1 year before I finally had a referrence to what it was 
the FDIC was referring to, and it was almost the same language 
and it was in a very limited context, statutorily speaking, as the 
Home Loan Bank Board had in its decisions in entering into these 
arrangements, such as the Southwest plan and then the December 
blizzard of 1988, and they are very tenuous. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



87 

You know, the fact is that how could an entity such as a Home 
Loan Bank Board, or for that matter, the Chairman of the Federal 
Reserve Board, or for that matter, the Chairman of the FDIC or 
RTC in entering these arrangements, how could they do that which 
the President can't do and the Congress can't do? That is, they 
have to have an authorization and an appropriation upon which an 
appropriation shall be made, according to the discussion. 

When you look at what it is that these regulators have usurped, 
it is the language in another context that says that in making 
these attempts to resolve the problem of insolvency, that every 
effort should be made to do it at such a cost as would reduce expo- 
sure of the insurance fund. 

Well, that is hardly the Congress delegating the power to author- 
ize and appropriate, which I think is a nondelegable function 
anyway. 

Nobody has seen fit to question that and I couldn't persuade any- 
body. In 1984, I was the only one asking that the Chairman have 
hearings, and they weren't about to. In the meanwhile, it is here 
and it is one that is sinking. 

It is sinking the ship. There is no question of it. There is no — 
there is going to be no end if we continue the way we are. It is a 
bottomless pit, but I don't think that the perception is here yet. 
What I am afraid of, and I really shudder to think that what's in- 
volved is a very shapeless and detrimental psychological thing 
which, in essence, means loss of confidence. Our whole system is 
based on trust and confidence. 

The whole banking system, the financial system, everything. 
When that goes and when the people know, and we have been 
dying to say — I have been telling the chairman of the FDIC, and, 
in fact, in 1984 when Chairman Volcker appeared before the sub- 
committee and I had 5 minutes, I asked that question. I said, well, 
do you intend to do in the case of any other substantial bank You 
mean you are going to do everything, use all the resources and the 
power and whatever it is you have in the way of money at the Fed, 
and he said absolutely. 

He said, "I will use every single resource of this country." Now 
that is in the record. It is in the testimony. Nobody pays attention 
to it. What I am saying is that at this point how can we tell the 
people that with just in the commercial banking industry, you have 
no more than $3.7 trillion in insured deposits and a broke insur- 
ance fund. 

How can you tell the people that the full faith and confidence of 
the United States is behind that $3.7 trillion when that exceeds the 
national debt? So you don't have to have all that, that is true. But 
we have never had an actuarily sound — and this is a predicament 
that I think spills over and affects every level. 

Like it or not, you are in that market and you are affected. But 
it seems to me that we have goten away so far from basics, just 
plain old-fashioned basics. I can't see how proceeding the way we 
are we wi ll h ave anything but just an endless — when we are 
pushed on FIRREA, we were reminded every day by the adminis- 
tration that every day the Congress took to resolve this, you would 
have a $20 million drain per day. But it is still there. 



In fact now it is more than per day because the methods have 
not changed any in the resolution. You still have long term conser- 
vatorships that are costing every day. So we have our problems. 
You know, looking at it from this standpoint we have to look at it 
overall. How, it impacts. 

Like FHA, the Secretary reports that he is facing 80,000 foreclo- 
sures a year and that the insurance fund has reached a point of 
actuarial danger. Given those facts, you have again a very tenuous 
situation. But in any event, I want to thank you very much. 

I have one last question that I will submit in writing and it has 
to do with H.R. 2900. I will tell you what it is so you can give it 
some thought. That is, if you think the capital requirements such 
as we have explained them in H.R. 2900 would result in higher 
mortgage rates and if so, do you have an idea as to how much. 

I don t expect you to answer that now. But please do it sometime 
soon. The staff will check with you. We will take you up on your 
offer, Mr. Ashley. 

Mr. Ashley. Thank you, sir. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Mr. Kennedy. 

Mr. Kennedy. Thank you. 

I thought it was interesting that you all sort of agreed with the 

Sortion of the Chairman's bill that requires 20 percent of the divi 
ends from the GSE to go toward the low-income housing program 
was something that you did not support. 

You also argued that both Fannie and Freddie are doing a great 
job already. 

Mr. Rami, you indicated that there was no credit crunch in 
mortgaged financing because of the GSE's continued ability to pro- 
vide liquidity in that market. That might be true in some sort of 
general matter but it is far from the truth for low- and moderate- 
income people. They have suffered tremendously as a result of not 
only the credit crunch but from the outright decreases in the 
amount of funds that the Federal Government has provided for 
low- and moderate-income housing. We have seen, as the Chairman 
has pointed out on a number of occasions, 10 years ago the Con- 
gress spent much more money on affordable housing in real terms 
than it does today. 

Even the GSE's themselves have really in some cases been aban- 
doned, particularly multi-family housing. We have seen almost a 
complete abandonment by Freddie and a dramatic decrease in 
multi-family housing financed by Fannie Mae. It seems to me that 
all of us, I am sure, Mr. Holland, that you are very well aware and 
I saw in your testimony, the needs for the support for low- and 
moderate-income housing in particular. 

It seems to me that — you are talking about an organization that 
has a 35 percent rate of return on equity. You have an organiza- 
tion that seems to be doing extremely well in the market these 
days, that if we look at any of the analyses that is made available 
to the public it would appear that even on Fannie's own judgments 
that they have become more, I think they refer to them as "plain 
vanilla" types of mortgages. We have seen an abandonment of the 
higher risk. 

I know from my experience in dealing with Boston banks the dif- 
ficulties that they have, even with people who were paying 40 to 50 



percent of their incomes in rent, in buildings that they could own, 
but getting those loans approved by either one of the organizations 
because of the rigid requirements by those organizations in terms 
of the kinds of mortgages that they wilt lend, we have seen as evi- 
denced by the next panel and their testimony will indicate that 
there has been continued evidence of discrimination hi the second- 
ary market against poor minority and inner city areas. 

I guess the real question is, I know you have indicated the goal is 
the same of getting these organizations or the needs, rather, of get- 
ting needs addressed of low- and moderate income people and these 
housing needs, that is after all why the GSE's exist to begin with. 
Not, as we have heard in short debate, there are plenty of thrifts 
and others that would be out there providing the kind of assistance 
that is now provided through the use of at least some kind of gov- 
ernment assistance through these GSE's. 

So it seems to me the real question is whether or not the kind of 
minimum effort that is being asked in this bill to support — I mean 
I think this would end up being something in the neighborhood of 
$50 million out of organizations that loan $300 billion a year worth 
of mortgages which I think is a piddling amount to be honest with 
you. 

Maybe you have a problem with the mechanism used but it 
seems to me that it is incumbent, if you are going to criticize the 
mechanisms that the chairman and the subcommittee has come up 
with in the mark, than to come up with your own mechanisms to 
indicate how other than some nebulous promises which is what we 
have gotten so far out of Freddie and Fannie, that they are going 
to come up with a way to achieve the goal for low- and moderate 
income people, people of color, people in the cities, with the kind of 
mortgages they need in order to be able to deal with the rising cost 
of housing in so many areas across the country. 

That is my basic question. Maybe each of you could answer it 
briefly. 

Mr. Ashley. Congressman Kennedy, let me assure you that my 
testimony did not, I hope, leave the impression that we were op- 
posed to the concept of commitment of Freddie and Fannie to fi- 
nancing low- and moderate-income housing. 

Mr. Kennedy. No, you didn't, just to the 20 percent. 

Mr. Ashley. The mechanism proposed in H.R. 2900 we object to 
for several reasons. If the goal is to increase the number of low- 
and moderate- income units that are financed, it seems to us that 
to be specific, put into the legislation, affirmative requirements 
that we would be glad to work with the subcommittee on develop- 



"E 



VIr. Kennedy. How would you do that? 

Mr. Ashley. You could have specific goals, percentage of the 
units. I think you could do some work in terms of how low- and 
moderate-income is defined. 

Mr. Kennedy. You would say that a percentage of all the hous- 
ing units 

Mr. Ashley. That would be one approach. I think our suggested 
solution would be to deal with specific affirmative targets that 
could be identified. Further, and this goes really to the mechanism, 
Mr. Chairman, we think that using the leverage capability, the fi- 
zzed byGOOgle 



90 

nancing capabilities which of course is the strongest thing that 
Freddie and Fannie bring to the market rather than an equity or 
the grant capabilities as the 20 percent suggests, will finance more 
unite. 

That is the objective. 

Mr. Kennedy. Do .you think that you and I should get the Mort- 
gage Bankers Association to back the notion of taking a set per- 
centage. I mean other than single digit percentages of all the GSE's 
into low- and moderate-income housing? 

Mr. Ashley. Yes, sir, I do. 

Mr. Kennedy. That is terrific. Let's see if we can work on that I 
am delighted to hear that. Maybe we can hear from some of the 
other panelists as well. 

Mr. Holland. Yes, I would be glad to respond. 

In my testimony not only does the U.S. League and its member- 
ship and myself personally support the 20 percent but we would 
even recommend that that be increased over time. 

Second, the definitions with regard to who shall qualify and the 
median income levels suggested in the bill, we support. I also go 
one step further along the lines of a recent dialog here that a per- 
centage of unite be dedicated to low and moderate incomes. 

Mr. Kennedy. What kind of percentage? 

Mr. Holland. In the 20- to 30-percent range. 

Mr. Kennedy. Do you have a sense of where they are today? 

Mr. Holland. No, I don't. 

Mr. Kennedy. Do any of you know the position of Freddie in low- 
and moderate income units percentage? 

Mr. Barru. Freddie is not low. I would like to stop using Freddie 
and Fannie as hyphenated words. They are two different organiza- 
tions which have different charters and they were not chartered to 
serve low- and moderate-income people. They were not. Freddie 
Mac was established to provide liquidity to the thrift industry. It 
was to take a glutted industry that did not have capital adequacy 
to provide a sufficient number of market rate mortgages to the 
country and to provide liquidity by being able to package those into 
securities and sell them to the capital markets. 

That is where the term secondary market came into existence, 
through the creation of Freddie Mac. 

Mr. Kennedy. You also understand the purposes of thrifts was to 
serve the low- and moderate income people of this country. That is 
why the government came in and provided the implicit guarantee 
that exists. That is why they get as the testimony indicated yester- 
day, something in the area of $4 billion a year worth of subsidy. 

Mr. Barru. Let's not get into why they were chartered but ad- 
dress the 20-percent issue. 

You are saying $50 million is a pittance. The fact of the matter is 
that because of the shrinking capability within the thrift industry 
to portfolio loans, there has been an increase in the demand of the 
services of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to continue to provide li- 
quidity to the depository insurance institutions and package their 
mortgages which have a leverage ratio of 50 percent under the 
Basil agreement into securities that are packaged by Fannie and 
Freddie and can be bought back in as investments, a leverage ratio 
of 20 percent. 

^izedbyGOOgle 



91 

Mr. Kennedy. Why is that inconsistent with serving low- and 
moderate-income people? 

Mr. Barbu. It is not but the reason they have been able to grow 
and still be sound financing, is to be able to reinvest a great deal of 
their profitability into enhancing their capital stature so that their 
leverage ratio doesn't grow. 

Mr. Kennedy. They have not. They have grown phenomenally 
and their capital is less than 1 percent. Don't tell me their capital 
is so fine today. These are organizations that get 35 percent rates 
of return and they don't put their money back to where it should. 

They are not serving the poor. They are not providing the kind 
of assurance that GAO says — these organizations are in deep trou- 
ble. I am not suggesting that is necessarily the perspective I have. 1 
don't think it is accurate to suggest that somehow or other that we, 
as a result of the strength of these mortgages, ought not to be di- 
rectly serving the needs of the low- and moderate-income people 
who it is my opinion that they perceive some measure of govern- 
ment support in order to achieve. 

Mr. Bahku. All I am saying is that I don't think you can put an 
arbitrary percentage on. We are not disagreeing with your desire 
at all. We share the same desire. We think there is a tremendous 
gap in money that is being made available for home ownership in 
moderate- and low-income people. We think there is a total absence 
of serious commitment to rental housing that is affordable in this 
country for low-income people. 

We have been crying about it. Historically that has been handled 
through FHA and not through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

Mr. Kennedy. What would you do, sir? 

Mr. Bahru. I think if we got back to the issue of providing pro- 
grams like we did through the 1970's that really had the ability to 
provide a great deal of low- and moderate-income housing through 
FHA we would not be talking about $50 million which is not going 
to address the issue. 

Mr. Kennedy. Putting the money back in is a very different 
question than the ones we are asking in terms of whether or not 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac ought to be putting in some percent- 
age. It is not the most radical notion in the world. 

You have two or three members of your own panel that indicate 
that they would support the concept. To tell you the truth I think 
it goes farther than the subcommittee is dealing with. So I don't 
think this is exactly a radical concept we are dealing with. 

Mr. Babbu. All we are saying is we are worried because we have 
watched before unintended consequences of arbitrary numbers that 
have been taken in or taken out of financial legislation in the last 
decade that have had dramatic consequences that are not anticipat- 
ed. 

We would like to see an urgency placed on getting Fannie and 
Freddie back into affordable housing, particularly in the rental 
market. 

However, we don't want to see an arbitrary number put in legis- 
lation that will impact them over a set period of time. We would 
rather see some targets. 

Mr. Kennedy. We have heard the numbers of the mortgages for 
low- and moderate-income people, people of color and people in the 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



92 

inner city is at a bear minimum. Their own testimony, their orga- 
nizations testify they are getting into plain vanilla mortgages. 
Nobody in the Congress wants to get involved in these issues. 

They only have to get involved when the organizations get away 
from the central purposes and missions for which they were de- 
signed to fulfill. That is what has happened. It has happened only 
in terms of the mortgages. It has happened in terms of the compen- 
sation packages and right down the line. 

That is why these hearings are being held. I appreciate your per- 
spective. We should leave this up to the market or some voluntary 
approach on their part. They don't do it. That is why we are here. 

Mr. Adams. 

Mr. Adams. Congressman Kennedy, I wanted to add some per- 
spective and some analysis that we have done. Our concerns on 
that stem from the fact that we have a very fragile capital and fi- 
nancial market right now. It is very likely that comments we made 
regarding impositions of restrictions on Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac could be moving the stock as we speak. 

In 1990 Fannie Mae invested $1 billion into the housing, and 
Freddie Mac, $220 million into the housing mission. Thirty percent 
of the loans purchased by Freddie Mac were affordable by families 
earning 80 percent of the median income. Between now and 1987 
when the company created a separate office for low- and moderate- 
income housing, Fannie Mae provided $5 billion in financing com- 
mitments to serve approximately 90,000 low- or moderate-income 
families. 

In 1991, they have announced an initiative to provide an addi- 
tional $10 billion commitment by July 1993 to serve 190,000 fami- 
lies. I refer to the past track record. I think we have to look at 
that. My colleagues have mentioned their ability to attract capital. 
That is something to be aware of. 

The money they have to invest in the housing mission is a sign 
of the funds they can attract and the safety and soundness inves- 
tors perceive of Fannie and Freddie. 

They have made more than $2 billion in commitments in commu- 
nity lending programs to provide 6 percent downpayment loans on 
favorable terms. Another statistic that is important, since 1987 
Fannie Mae purchased $2.8 billion in mortgage revenue bonds from 
State and local housing finance agencies which allowed them to 
offer tax exempt financing to lower cost on low-income mortgage 
that would not otherwise be possible. 

We have a demonstrated track record. Putting a percentage in 
there, 20 percent or others, I think may be a little arbitrary. They 
have demonstrated a commitment to that. Obviously, the National 
Association of Realtors holds the needs for the low- and moderate- 
income borrowers, as well as the affordable housing issue to be of 
utmost concern. 

I have been reminded that most recently there has been a colli- 
sion between the U.S. Conference of Mayors and an 11-city demon- 
stration program with Fannie and Freddie that will also go a long 
way toward providing some of these well-needed funds. 

Mr. Kennedy. I don't question the $3 billion of the combined out- 
fits that you cannot come up with a few billion dollars worth of ex- 
amples. I would be surprised if you disagreed with the fundamental 

D^izedbyGOOgle 



facts I gave in terms of decline overall in multifamily, the decline 
in the inner cities, the decline in terms of the number of mortgages 
to moderate income people, working people in this country, and 
particularly minorities and people of color in our country. 
■ These are the issues that we are talking about. I am not suggest- 
ing that they don't have some good innovative and creative pro- 



The question is whether or not on a percentage basis, of all the 
huge growth we have seen in these organizations, whether or not 
they are not in fact pulling away from the higher risk, more diffi- 
cult mortgages, getting into competition with institutions that 
could normally provide the same kind of financing that they do 
and in fact evolving into organizations that provide a tremendous 
rate of return, provide a hell of a lot of good salaries for the very 
top people in the organizations, provide a rate of return at 35 per- 
cent and put the taxpayer on the hook because they have 1 percent 
capital. That is what they have done. 

Mr. Adams. You made the comment that their investment in 
these categories are nebulous. 1 guess the figures show in the past 
it was not a nebulous amount. 

Mr. Kennedy. I think you can be specific about some demonstra- 
tion programs, which you have been. I would not have that the 
overall level of funding that you have referred to in comparison to 
the overall amount of funding these organizations provide is that 
significant. 

Let me ask Mr. Holland if he had a comment. He indicated he 
did. 

Mr. Holland. Thank you, Congressman. This is to partially re- 
spond to a question you asked earlier and along the fines of this 
discussion. Perhaps the real dollar amount of commitment of 
Fannie and Freddie have increased in recent years, but percentage- 
wise, I am not sure that is the case. 

On page 9 of my written testimony, I said, "In our view the great 
success of these entities has not resulted in their efforts to aggres- 
sively serve lower and moderate income borrowers as Congress 
mandated. Instead, they have taken over the middle of the housing 
market which can be served by the private sector. Over the past 6 
years the agencies have increased loan limits by 66 percent while 
the median selling price for homes has gone up 26 percent." 

That does not conclude my statement, but it certainly leads one 
to think more dollars, percentagewise, are going to higher income 
than lower income homebuyers. 

Mr. Kennedy. Thank you. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you, Mr. Kennedy. 

Unfortunately Mr. Ashley had to leave. But Mr. Ashley, in his 
statement, categorically stated that he was against the cap we 
placed on compensation. 

I just wanted to point out that in his opinion, we do have a cap. 

I was going to ask him to explain to you why it is a cap. 

Mr. Kennedy. The mortgage banker would consider that a cap, 
sure, Mr. Chairman. It is the difference between their cap and the 
kind of cap I think we should be putting on these institutions, Mr. 
Chairman. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



Chairman Gonzalez. Well, I think we have held the witnesses 
here long enough, perhaps too long. 

In any event, thank you very much for your help and your pa- 
tience. 

I ask unanimous consent that the letter from Peter Treadway of 
the Research Division of Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co., 
Inc., be placed in the record. 

[The letter referred to can be found in the appendix.] 

The next panel consists of Mr. George Butte, who is the Presi- 
dent of ACORN Housing Corporation in Philadelphia, PA; Mr. Ter- 
rence Duvernay, President, National Council of State Housing 
Agencies, and Executive Director, Georgia Housing and Finance 
Authority; and Bart Harvey, Vice Chairman, the Enterprise Foun- 
dation of Columbia, MD. 

We want to thank each and every one of you again. I say again 
because you have been, in relation to the subcommittee, constantly 
helpful in keeping us informed. 

If there is no objection, I will recognize Mr. Butts, and each one 
thereafter in the order that I introduced you. 

Mr. Butts. 

STATEMENT OF GEORGE BUTTS, PRESIDENT, ACORN HOUSING 
CORP., PHILADELPHIA, PA 

Mr. Butts. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Mr. Chairman, my name is George Butts of ACORN Housing 
Corporation in Philadelphia. I am here representing the 80,000 na- 
tionwide low- and moderate-income members of ACORN, the Asso- 
ciation of Community Organizations for Reform Now. 

ACORN has neighborhood chapters in 26 states and has success- 
fully negotiated over 25 Community Reinvestment Act bank agree- 
ments representing more than $500 million in targeted loan com- 
mitments for low-income home ownership. 

On behalf of ACORN, I wish to express our thanks for your lead- 
ership in saving the CRA. The struggle gave me more gray hairs in 
my period than normal. 

While it is important to note that CRA is alive in the statute, we 
are dismayed to report to you that CRA is being strangled by the 
business practices of Fannie and Freddie at the grassroots. Merely 
preserving the status quo with respect to CRA demands a real 
overhaul of these publicly chartered and subsidized institutions. 

We have been successful for the most part in changing the way 
the banking community views and deals with the low- and moder- 
ate-income community. 

We have made major changes in underwriting criteria, helped to 
establish counseling programs, held major events to bring banks 
and communities together. 

All tins has helped to develop over $9 million in loans for low- 
and moderate-income families in Philadelphia last year. 

It has taken us 5 years to get what we have now. It has not been 
easy. Our experience has shown that the secondary market bears 
more than its fair share of responsibility for stopping many lenders 
from understanding and supporting the wisdom of what we are 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



95 

toying to do, to accommodate the economic realities of low- and 
moderate-income neighborhoods. 

We have met with Fannie Mae several times. We do not want to 
diminish the work that they nave done, but it is clear they are not 
doing the kind of thing they can do to fundamentally change the 
impact of the secondary market on the low- and moderate-income 
community. 

Overall they have taken the path of least resistance; and in our 
written testimony, we have made several recommendations to help 
assure that community lending is a viable option for local financial 
institutions. 

First, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should be required to set 
aside a portion of their annaul profits for an affordable housing 
program like that at the Home Loan Banks. These funds could be 
used to help the agencies purchase below-market loans and to fa- 
cilitate agency assistance to lenders for origination of below-market 
loans for single and multi-family borrowers. Second, no less than 
80 percent of mortgage purchases by Fannie and Freddie should be 
from borrowers of less than 80 percent of the area median income. 
Third .these agencies must establish antidiscrimination policies. 

These agencies should be barred from purchasing loans from any 
lender who discriminates on the basis of race and gender, Fannie 
and Freddie must use their enormous influence in the market to 
encourage lenders to use nond'iscriminatory underwriting stand- 
ards. And if banks fail to comply after proper warning, they should 
be cut off from doing business with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

Negotiating underwriting standards with the banks we have re- 
lationships with in Philadelphia, I can talk with first-hand experi- 
ence about that. They have done a stellar job in trying to do this 
kind of business with low* and moderate-income people. 

Sitting at the table with Fannie Mae people a few weeks ago, it 
struck me that they seem to be at the place that the banks were 4 
or 5 years ago, where we were still haggling over basic things like 
underwriting and accepting below-market rate mortgages and 
using market clout. 

This was very frustrating for us. At this point, we have seen 
things work. We know what can happen when people have the 
commitment to make low- and moderate-income lending programs 
work. We also know that there is only so much banks can do when 
they are strapped with the secondary market to deal with. . 

There are only so many loans that these banks will keep in their 
own portfolios. Banks must be able to sell low-income loans if we 
want to expand the availability of low-income housing. 

To summarize, my main problem with Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac is that their underwriting criteria discriminate against low- 
income people. They are not dealing with the basic obstacles that 
they create to the provision of low-income affordable housing.. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Butts can be found in the appen- 
dizj 

Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you very much. 

Now, in your statement, which I again compliment you on, you 
say each time ACORN has appeared over the years before the sub- 
committee or the full committee, it seems to me they do a tremen- 
dous job of research and then do a good presentation. This will 

D^izedbyGOOgle 



appear as you gave it to us in the record following your oral re- 
marks. 
Mr. Duverany. 

STATEMENT OF TERRENCE R. DUVERNAY, PRESIDENT, NATION- 
AL COUNCIL OF STATE HOUSING AGENCIES, AND EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR, GEORGIA HOUSING AND FINANCE AUTHORITY 

Mr. Duvernay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to 
thank Representative Kennedy. 

My name is Terry Duverany. 1 am executive director of the Geor- 
gia Housing and Finance Authority but I also serve as President of 
the National Council of State Housing Agencies. Today I am testi- 
fying on behalf of the NCSHA and within that organization I chair 
a task force of State finance agencies that has recently been orga- 
nized to meet regularly about Fannie and Freddie to discuss 
making their programs more relevant to low-income people. 

We appreciate this opportunity to testify on your legislation H.R. 
2900 which was designed to improve the financial safety and sound- 
ness of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, particularly with regard to 
mortgages for the Affordable Housing Program. We commend you 
for recognizing that these important institutions can and should do 
more to provide affordable housing to low-income Americans. 

Measures in support of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Freddie 
Mac's safety and soundness need not be inconsistent with their con- 
gressionally-mandated public purpose. We believe the proposed af- 
fordable housing program that has been contemplated would go a 
long way toward meeting the affordable housing mandate, even 
while strengthening the capital posture of the corporations. 

We applaud Fannie Mae for all that it has done in affordable 
housing. We also commend Freddie Mac for hiring Carl Riedy, 
former executive director of NCSHA, to establish an affordable 
housing department within Freddie Mac, and for hiring Dwight 
Robinson, who was deputy director of the Michgan State Housing 
Authority. We ask that they encourage Fannie Mae to continue 
and expand its current level of effort in affordable housing. 

It requires Freddie Mac to expand its portfolio as fast as practi- 
cable to a level comparable to Fannie Mae. The new housing pro- 
gram must be in addition to and not a substitute for these impor- 
tant efforts. Fannie and Freddie's affordable housing initiatives 
have not been targeted so far to the income levels required under 
the Affordable Housing Program for multi-family programs or 
indeed to the still unmet needs in the single-family area. 

Fannie and Freddie's programs operate understandably to under- 
write conventional untargeted housing. Unfortunately, many af- 
fordable housing projects cannot meet these standards for reasons 
that do not necessarily include risk. 

A affordable housing program such as your legislation recom- 
mends can address the needs of these low-income housing projects 
which do not meet conventional underwriting standards. The pro- 
posed affordable housing program establishes the necessary frame- 
work for the development of an alternative product line to meet 
the unique circumstance of low-income housing. We strongly sup- 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



97 

port the concept and offer the following specific suggestions that 
the AHP be improved . 

Number one, the AHP should be designed to require Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac to undertake low-income housing activities 
beyond those permitted by their present underwriting standards. It 
should not be a grant program for a relatively few projects scat- 
tered across the country. Instead, program funds should be re- 
tained within the corporations to leverage financing for targeted, 
low- and very low-income housing programs not presently under- 
taken by these corporations. 

Two, the AHP should include a low-income single-family compo- 
nent for otherwise nonconforming low-income loans which gives 
preference to areas, such as rural areas, where rental housing is 
frequently not viable. 

Three, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should be required to 
devote a meaningful amount of funds to the AHP based upon some 
measure of their profitability. We are not certain that a percentage 
of dividends, as the legislation proposes, is the best way to measure 
the level of effort required in the new program. 

Other measures might include net earnings, some combination of 
net earnings and dividends, or even some significant portion of 
their overall secondary market activity which was clearly required 
to be committed to the kind of projects we are describing in this 
testimony. 

Whatever measure the subcommittee determines is appropriate 
should result in a minimum of $1 billion in leveraged financing for 
low-income housing under the new program. 

Four, the subcommittee should take care to ensure that the AHP 
addresses unmet housing needs and is not permitted to be a substi- 
tute for Fannie Mae's present level of effort in affordable housing 
or what we hope will be Freddie Mac's expanded effort in afford- 
able housing or what we expect will be Freddie Mac expanded ef- 
forts and a commendable move. 

In that direction, if I might for a moment expand for a little bit 
on the Affordable Housing Program concent and structure. As I 
mentioned earlier I think the Affordable Housing Program should 
require Fannie and Freddie to establish a separate alternative 
product line. 

Programmed funds could be used for a number of purposes in- 
cluding loan loss reserves, operating loss reserves, subordinated 
loans or loan guarantees for deeply targeted projects. The principal 
goal should be to provide acquisition, construction and permanent 
financing including secondary financing to low-income rental prop- 
erties that meet the legislation's recommended income targets. 

A portion of the program should be devoted to financing single- 
family loans that do not conform to the underwriting criteria of 
the corporation's present Affordable Housing Program. Such pres- 
ently nonconforming loans include community reinvestment ac- 
count loans which must be held in portfolio by banks, reducing the 
amount of lending they can do. 

Given the comparatively larger need for low-income multi-family 
we however on the single-family side think any fund should be re- 
stricted to 25 percent of the total. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



The success of the Affordable Housing Program in meeting its 
goals will depend on the establishment of underwriting standards 
more flexible than Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's conventional 
business. Our experience demonstrates that low-income housing 
which does not meet conventional underwriting standards need 
not, however, imply greater losses than more conventional prod- 
ucts. 

If that then proves to be the experience, the reserves can deliver 
even more financing and possibly lead to an expansion into conven- 
tional programs, which I think would be a good outcome of this. 

We would recommend that an advisory committee be established 
to consult with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac under the reality of 
this new program and that the subcommittee include representa- 
tives from the nonprofit community, the private sector, such as re- 
altors and homebuUders, and State and local government. 

We think that Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae should report to 
that advisory committee on the new program. I would like to now 
talk about two additional matters. 

I would like to express some of what you heard before, but some- 
thing that we share. We share a deep concern about two provisions 
of the bill not directly related to affordable housing proposals. First 
is the requirement in the proposed legislation that Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac must obtain HUD's approval before the introduction 
of new products. 

Nothing in the recent experience suggests that this requirement 
is justified. We believed it will needlessly chill the development of 
affordable housing and other initiatives. It would subject it to the 
vagaries of a process that could stifle the innovations we are trying 
to encourage. 

We believe the Democratic requirement would be time-consum- 
ing, counterproductive, and we think it should be dropped. We 
think the HUD authority to revise Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's 
pricing decisions is too broad and should be reconsidered. 

Mr. Chairman, in closing, let me suggest that housing finance 
agencies have faced the same challenges as Fannie Mae and Fred- 
die Mac, that we currently face in delivering affordable housing. 
We believe we have a lot to contribute to the development and im- 
plementation of the program. 

We offer the subcommittee our assistance and we offer it also to 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in carrying it out. I thank you for 
allowing us to appear before you to make this testimony. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you for an excellent statement. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Duvernay can be found in the 
appendix.] 

Chairman Gonzalez. Mr. Harvey. 

STATEMENT OF BART HARVEY, VICE CHAIRMAN, THE 
ENTERPRISE FOUNDATION, COLUMBIA, MD 
Mr. Harvey. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and members of the sub- 
committee. It is a pleasure to appear before you. I am Bart Harvey, 
cochairman and chief executive officer of The Enterprise Founda- 
tion, which is a publicly-supported, nonprofit organization which 
works across the country with over 130 nonprofits in 70 cities pro- 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



viding decent, affordable housing in some of the most distressed 
neighborhoods in this country, to some of the lowest-income people 
in this country. 

Before making comments regarding specific aspects of this bill, I 
would like to comment on The Enterprise Foundation's experience 
with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and our understanding of their 
mission and performance. 

Taking language from FIRREA in 1989, Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac now have similar charters and purposes — and I am summariz- 
ing — to provide stability in the secondary market for home mort- 
gages, to respond appropriately to the private capital market, to 
provide ongoing assistance to the secondary market for mortgages, 
and I note, "including low- and middle-income mortgages involving 
a reasonable economic return," and to do this by increasing liquidi- 
ty and improving the distribution of investment capital, to help ful- 
fill this Federal charter and its attendant public purpose, Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac were given access to an implied guarantee of 
the Federal Government. 

Now, there is no debate that these companies have succeeded 
magnificently in expanding the base of investors, in bringing stabil- 
ity to the markets, in standardizing the terms and being in the na- 
tional mortgage markets in good times and bad. 

I note the Southwest on that. More importantly, they have 
passed most of their Federal benefit through to the ultimate con- 
sumers, which have helped millions of low- and moderate-income 
homebuyere. 

By Fannie Mae's own statistics, over 30 percent of their loans 
were made to low- and moderate-income families and the mortgage 
amounts were under $57,000. We need, Mr. Chairman, far more 
disclosure to know exactly to whom all of these loans are going. 

We should give credit where credit is due. Over the past 5 years, 
Fannie Mae, and more recently since the charter changes in 1989 
for Freddie Mac, both of these entities have concentrated major ef- 
forts on nonconventional markets. 

These are very hopeful steps that both entities have made. But 
they need further development. We need to make sure that deliver- 
ables meet the commitments that have been outlined. 

Fannie Mae introduced a very bold $10 billion program in single 
and multifamily mortgages to assist 180,000 low- and moderate- 
income families. Freddie Mac has recently undertaken a $100 mil- 
lion multifamily program with the nonprofit LIMAC and are reen- 
tering the multifamily market. 

I would like to return to those areas later. 

Specifically, regarding proposals in your bill, we are very con- 
cerned that your proposals bifurcate safety and soundness from the 
public purpose mission of these entities. The creation of the Office 
of Secondary Market Examination and Oversight solely to adminis- 
ter safety and soundness, we think, is a dangerous step. 

We have found in other agencies, such as the Office of Controller 
of the Currency, that one aide implements stiff risk based premi- 
ums, especially on multifamily housing which serves the poorest, 
while the other side of the agency, citing the Community Reinvest- 
ment Act, encourages these same lending institutions to make 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



loans that are no longer financially viable or in their best interest 
from a capital point of view. 

Last year before subcommittees here, Treasury wanted Fannie 
and Freddie to be triple A which would largely have negated the 
benefit of the implied Federal guarantee and would have made 
them less willing to extend themselves to public service programs 
or reaching low-income people or taking on any loans that might 
have perceived risk or to have experimented with programs for 
low- and moderate-income Americans. 

We believe the Office of Examination and Oversight must be bal- 
anced with the objectives of the public purpose mission of these two 
entities. 

We also view as dangerous a provision that the director of his 
office can arbitrarily set a capital level for management and risk 
over a 20-percent requirement. That would be easy for the director 
to do, to have a very conservative capital structure, but we find 
conservative capital structures inevitably hurt low-income Ameri- 
cans. 

Furthermore, to capitalize on the innovation, speed, adaptability 
and the experimentations of these entities and their ability to fash- 
ion pilot programs that could lead to new systemwide programs for 
low-income people, we hope that all affordable housing programs 
would not need prior approval to be carried out. We say this in the 
interest of timeliness. We say this in the interest of the ability of 
these agencies to experiment with their programs, to find accepta- 
ble loan losses in certain programs. 

Finally, turning to the Affordable Housing Program, we think 
you have given very important recognition to a key need that is 
not being served in the multifamily rental housing arena. 

We, however, would approach it very differently because we fear 
as written the Affordable Housing Program is too circumscribed in 
scope. It would favor a limited few. The minimum could become a 
maximum. It makes meeting low-income housing needs a charita- 
ble act. It does not get to the creativity, the innovation, the force 
and the leverage and the power of these financial institutions to do 
more. 

We would propose instead, first of all, much better disclosure by 
both entities by type of mortgage, by product line, by particularly 
the income served of the family and the areas served which- are in 
the central city areas. 

We would recommend an annual report by volume of loans in 
each of these various types and products, and anticipated volumes 
for the coming year for existing products and for new products 
taking advantage of the Affordable Housing Program of ETC or the 
new home legislation. 

We think it is very important that these entities show the deli- 
verables against their commitments in each volume line. 

Finally, we would recommend that there is an annual discussion 
of these entities regarding any complaints as far as perceived 
unfair underwriting or fair housing practices. They should sit down 
and go over with whoever feels that they are being unfair in under- 
writing or fair housing practices. 

Finally, we would recommend that the new Office of Manage- 
ment Supervision set up an internal risk capital fund for these 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



101 

agencies that is properly accredited and incentivized to have them 
explicitly take risks to develop new prototypes for low-income 
single and multifamily loans that can be developed for systemwide 
use. 

It is The Enterprise Foundation's contention that carefully un- 
derwritten low-income housing is a viable, profitable business 
which can be systematically undertaken by Fannie Mae and Fred- 
die Mac, if appropriate creative resources are dedicated to it and 
proper methods are employed. We commend you and these entities 
for what they have done. 

We look forward to important new advances. 

Thank you. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Harvey can be found in the ap- 
pendix.] 

Chairman Gonzalez. Thank you, Mr. Harvey and thank you for 
your very well presented suggestions and recommendations. 

I notice you agree or concur with some of the prior witnesses 
that seem to be skeptical about having a fixed 20-percent figure of 
regulatory capital determined along the risk-based criteria. I think 
it is something that we do have to evaluate very carefully. There 
was one thing, though, because I think in a way you made sort of a 
referral but not as directly. You say on page 3, "In tandem with 
Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's servicing of low- and moderate- 
income individuals through the conventional market are the spe- 
cialized activities of both entities to meet the need of low-income 
families which do not qualify for conventional financing." 

I believe it was Mr. Duvernay, in your statement, I think you 
make a very, very significant point here that we tend to forget 
about or overlook. I am going to read from page 4, "Fannie Mae's 
and Freddie Mac's strength lies in their ability to package large 
numbers of single family loans that conform to the same basic 
standards. 

"The wholesale nature of the secondary market contributes to its 
efficiency, though apparently low cost of corporation and consum- 
mate profitability. 

"Unfortunately, almost all low-income multi-family projects and 
some single family programs do not conform to the wholesale 
standard. Such non-conforming housing is sometimes presumed to 
be more risky than housing conforming to conventional secondary 
market standards. 

"The experience of the housing standards with low-income hous- 
ing shows well-structured and non-conforming projects have a good 
track record. The problem is that few multi-family projects have 
the same characteristics. They require original review and analogy, 
something that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are probably not 
presently equipped to provide. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, whose 
business is essentially wholesale, may need assistance regarding a 
volume of retail such as low- income multi- and single family pro- 
grams." 

I think that is a very perceptive and pertinent point here. Do 
any of the others — first I will ask Mr. Duvernay if he wishes to en- 
large on this or if he has a supplemental statement 

Mr. Duvernay. I think it stands for itself. I appreciate your 
pointing it out, Mr. Chairman. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



102 

We understand that agencies like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, 
which are, while large and significant corporations, have become as 
good as they are based on their attention to do what I have de- 
scribed here as a wholesale side of the business. They would have 
to become much too large and create the kind of expertise that 
they are presently not here to do. 

That might exist in agencies like Housing Finance Agencies. We 
are out there. We have to be out there in those agencies that do 
multi-family housing, particularly the kinds of underwriting skills 
necessary to look at the detailed individual projects to make sure 
that it works and if then packaged, could find out the way to meet 
a standard that could fit a program that Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac might be involved in. 

That part of it, I think, is unfair to require of Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac. However, they could have partners that could do 
that. Just because it appears to be too risky, we think isn't a 
reason not to do it. It is a reason to find a way to go to and an 
opportunity to structure them well and to find a way to approach a 
problem that we heard to date has not been met even though we 
understand other reasons we are hearing that which suggest we 
don't want to meet them in a way that drives them into trouble. 

This is a way to find an active way of reaching that effort with- 
out, indeed, being too risky, unsafe or unstrong. I appreciate your 
pointing that out. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Mr. Harvey, you, yourself, said of that, 
what was it, 57,000 

Mr. Harvey. Over 30 percent of the funds reported were 

Chairman Gonzalez. Perhaps we ought to have a little bit more 
information as to the exact nature. 

Mr. Harvey. We need a lot more information on exactly who 
that is going to. 

Chairman Gonzalez. In light of Mr. Duvernay's observation, I 
wanted to know what your comments would be. 

Mr. Harvey. I agree totally with what Terry is saying. That is, 
in fact, what we are suggesting. I think these entities are putting 
creative resources in finding those products which have a good loan 
loss experience, but they don't look like the conventional product. 
They should put this effort together. They should find what they 
can do, and they should do it across their whole system. This is 
really where the, quote, nonconventional pilot programs are really 
needed. They need to experiment and they need to find new under- 
writing standards that do work and are different, and they are 
very different for low-income people. 

They need to find what kind of loan loss works and then they 
need to set it on a much larger scale than just in the nonconven- 
tional side of their business. Hopefully, you can marry those two 
and you can take some capital for experimentation. And in finding 
what are good loan losses and good products that just don't con- 
form to the cookie cutter, they could do a heck of a lot more. The 
volume should be very large. 

We believe low-income people are good credit risks. You must 
know what you are doing and now to create the product. 

Chairman Gonzalez. You see no impediment, though, to either 
one of these agencies or both being able to reach that point? 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



103 

Mr. Harvey. I think you have to git down and set goals. I think 
we need a lot more information, first of all. Then you have to look 
at performance. I think one thing that Jim Johnson said, the CEO 
of Fannie Mae, is that they want their deliverables to meet their 
commitments. So do we. 

So should all of us be working for that and to see what kind of 
real experience they have from putting out these commitments to 
do something to actually turning them into mortgages and loans. 

Chairman Gonzalez. If I may make an observation here, I am of 
the impression, my impression — it could be wrong— that the pres- 
sure wouldn't be on these institutions as it is, for example, in the 
multi-family and low-income housing if HUD had not withdrawn 
from that area as it has in effect. Do you feel that — in other words, 
I think if HUD were carrying out its program as anticipated by 
Congress, a lot of this pressure would be off of these secondary 
mortgage institutions. 

Do you tend to agree with that? 

Mr. Harvey. Please don't start me on HUD, Mr. Chairman, be- 
cause I think that they should be in the market. There is no excuse 
for them not being in the market. They should be taking risks that 
these entities aren't set up to take. I think you are right. Some 
pressure would be off of these entities in the multi-family market if 
that were the case. They have by their own numbers — and I am 
just citing their own numbers. Fannie Mae alone is 10 percent of 
the market and larger than the three next participants in the 
market. 

They are in that market. I think Freddie Mac withdrew because 
of its loan loss experience, and it has to revamp before it re-enters. 
They should all be in it. 

HUD should be taking the most basic risks. It is just how far you 
expect these entities to go and whether they should be underwrit- 
ing or subsidizing certain product lines. That is the real question. 

We worry the safety and soundness people always say no. You 
should be more conservative and have more capital. That gives 
them no incentive to go towards the riskier side of trying, experi- 
menting, failing in some, but designing product that really works. 

They are getting whipsawed between these two sides. 

Chairman Gonzalez. You have that tension between your safety 
and soundness and capital standards. 

Mr. Butts, I am sorry we delayed you. 

Mr. Butts. I feel some days I hear this stuff and I want to bust, 
you know. We sat down with the banks that we have in Philadel- 
phia not too long ago, I guess 3 months ago, banks that we have 
relationships with, that is, Fidelity, Continental Bank, and Melon 
now. We raised a lot of the same issues that have been coming up 
here with them. 

Not only us from the community side, but the banks also raised 
these same sort of issues. Those three banks that we have are 
doing these kinds of loans and through a lot of pain and a lot of 
change of personality. They decided to do this kind of business, but 
they still haven't been able to sell loans to Fannie Mae. 

Fannie and Freddie aren't doing business with these banks. They 
are shut out of the business. 

D^izedbyGOOgle 



104 

Fannie said, yes, we would love to talk to you about the prob- 
lems, but nothing has happened yet. These banks have been there 
for 4 years doing these kinds of loans, and they have not been able 
to sell them to Fannie Mae. We still think there is still something 
fundamentally wrong with the way Fannie and Freddie look at un- 
derwriting, with the things they are willing to do. When we sat 
down in the room in Washington a few weeks ago with them and 
talked to them about this stuff and asked are you willing to go 
down to New Orleans where we know we have a problem with the 
bankers being discriminatory, banks that say they will do low- 
income loans and then slap a $500 origination fee to keep us out of 
the market, we said are you willing to come down and help us talk 
to these people about that, and they said yes. 

Are you willing to come out and say that if you don't stop these 
discriminatory practices, we won't do business with you anymore? 
Well, they said, "I don't know. We are not supposed to be doing— 
we are not supposed to be dealing with anybody that is discrimina- 
tory. We don't understand what is going on here." 

If I know it, and I am sitting in Philadelphia, they have to know 
it. I am not trying to say they are not committed. I know they 
work very hard. They sent me a letter yesterday to tell me how 
hard they work. I know they work very hard at trying to create 
some kind of a product, but I think they are missing the point. 

The point is, they have to change fundamentally how they view 
low- and moderate-income folks, the same way the banks did. They 
have to look at us as a viable market. They have to adjust what 
they do to fit the market they want to serve, not the other way 
around, because our economic circumstances aren't necessarily 
going to change. 

Things are getting worse for us in a lot of ways, not better. That 
doesn't mean we are not holding on to this dream. Home owner- 
ship is a goal for a lot of us. We don't want to spend three or four 
times for rent what we can pay to own. We want to make a com- 
mitment to the neighborhoods we are in. We don't want to leave. 

Banks sit there and say, we would love to make this loan, but we 
can't because we can't turn around and sell it. And there is no 
point in holding it, because we are going to have to hold it for 30 
years, and we don't want to hold it for 30 years. We want to get rid 
of it so we can get more money and do more business. And to have 
Fannie and Freddie say we are going to do this and make these 
things available, and we are going to study this and study that. 

This information has been around for a long time. Any studying 
they had to do, I would think they could have done it by now. We 
provide a lot of information. We have enough background on the 
performance of the loans in our areas and the banks we deal with 
that shows we are not the risk. It is not the low- and moderate- 
income people that are defaulting on the loans in great numbers. 

With respect to underwriting criteria that are working, it is 
where banks are adjusting and putting precounseling programs in 

Elace to make these deals work, where they have strong neighbor- 
ood groups out there explaining to people how important this is. 
We don t walk away from loans. We are paying mortgages. My 
family knows if we have to get out there and sell pencils, we are 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



105 

going to pay that mortgage. It might come in late, but it is going to 
come in, whatever we nave to do. We know how important this is. 

That stuff doesn't wash with me. It just gets me upset. 

Chairman Gonzalez. Properly so. 

Mr. Duvernay. 

Mr. Duvernay. The reason why we have emphasized in our testi- 
mony that there needs to be created an active product line is for 
merely the reasons I have just heard. Not that we — we understand 
there are standards that have to be conformed with. We don't want 
to turn any of those things around. 

Unless there is a product line that has been created with the 
kinds of things Mr. Butte mentioned, tested and proven, all the 
great efforts Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have dealt over the last 
several years, all the innovative and creative programs we have 
heard mentioned today that are part of ancillary things that they 
do, will never resolve the problem. 

Unless we have an active product line that takes into consider- 
ation what we have heard, that becomes a standard way of operat- 
ing, maintaining safety and soundness, maintaining capital re- 
quirements, unless we move to that, we are never going to solve 
the problem. They are integral to doing that, and that is why we 
have taken the position we take. 

Thank you. 

Chairman Gonzalez. I am in thorough agreement. Mr. Butts, 
didn't ACORN develop a package in Arkansas? Did that have any- 
thing to do with Fannie Mae? Do you know? I know you are not in 
that area. 

Mr. Butts. Not right offhand. I know Fannie Mae has communi- 
cated with us in the past week or so about wanting to do pilot pro- 
grams in a number of cities, Philadelphia and Des Moines and Min- 
neapolis and other cities. 

Chairman Gonzalez. A colleague told me that— I haven't been 
available actually to some of these executive officers in the last 10 
days. It has been very hectic on the full committee level. But one of 
my colleagues stated that they were anxious to talk to me because 
they have found an accommodation with organizations such as 
yours; to what extent, I don't know. 

What I think is this: That since — and you know, you were thank- 
ing me for whatever we did on the full committee to reverse what 
the subcommittee did with respect to CRA. In the first place, it 
shouldn't have happened, but it did. 

You and I know that it is an eternal struggle. You don't win it 
permanently. Instead of enhancing CRA, which is in desperate 
need of enhancement, we were fighting to preserve what we have 
now and for which we fought over 20 years. We are going to have 
to keep on fighting. 

But in the case of secondary mortgage institutions, what I have 
been trying to find out is a mechanism — and time has kind of over- 
taken me, and I haven't— if the law presently does not cover such 
entities as the secondary mortgage institutions, and perhaps it isn't 
feasible, but certainly we ought to know with what institutions 
they are dealing, what banks they are dealing with that are red- 
lining, that don t have any kind of a track record or performance 
with CRA. 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



106 

This is what I wanted to tell you that I am trying to work to- 
wards. 

Mr. Butts. I appreciate that, because that would go a long way 
to help. 

Chairman Gonzalez. You are absolutely correct. We are not in 
the mess we are in because the poor people didn't pay their bills. It 
wasn't the poor people that defrauded Uncle Sam and the insur- 
ance fund and the bondholders and shareholders of all these de- 
funct S&Lb. That is not where the S&L money was going. If it had, 
it would still be there with the people. 

Mr. Butts. My wife is a very astute woman. She is also chairman 
of a banking committee in Philadelphia. She has through all the 
negotiations. We sit in negotiations together with all the banks. We 
hear over and over again about how low- and moderate-income 
people have such a high default rate, and that is why banks don't 
do these kind of deals. She said, When I look at the data, you are 
not making any loans, so where are you getting the data to say 
what we don't do? 

Chairman Gonzalez. The record has been there from day one. It 
is a constant struggle. Of course, I don't want to hold you here for- 
ever, but it has been my observation that organizations like yours 
and the gentleman here in their category, when the leaders won't 
lead, the people must push. 

The track record of our government as far as anything is con- 
cerned as far as aiding and helping the masses of the people proves 
that it didn't come voluntarily from the governmental level. It had 
to be pushed into it. It took the riots and the strikes and the sit- 
down strikes and what we call the industrial workers organizations 
in the 1930's to convince Franklin Roosevelt they had a big prob- 
lem. The big fear was we might get a revolution. Then is when you 
got social security and the other programs. But they didn't come 
there because it emanated from this level or the Executive Branch 
level. It came from the people. 

This is why we are trying to keep some continuum of connection 
between the Congress and the people and these institutions that 
the Congress has created, but nave reached a point where you 
would think they were created by divine origin. 

I am not speaking of the secondary mortgage institutions neces- 
sarily. I am saying that we have vast enterprises that in effect 
have replaced the government as far as the basic decisions that 
affect our daily lives are concerned. It is the ugly truth, but it is 
the truth. 

I wanted to thank you all because you are the ones that enable 
us to remind ourselves and everybody else around us why we are 
here. I know it is tough and I know the fight. I have been on that 
side years ago. Everything from schooling, adequate educational fa- 
cilities, to such things as fighting discrimination in the crude and 
rude days. I know what you nave got. 

In your case, Mr. Harvey, I think you represent an entity that is 
very original in its approach to these problems, and we are grateful 
to you, too. 

I have one, maybe two questions, but I can refer them to you 
even if we do it by telephone from the staff. But I did want to let 
you know that we are trying to see how we can work on where we 

3,g,:iz e dbyGOOgIe 



107 

can at least hold to some standard or responsibility these institu- 
tions that are dealing with the banks that are not extending credit. 
We will Bee how we reach that point. 

The truth of the matter is, and I have made this observation a 
long time ago to Mr. Maxwell, the immediate past head of Fannie 
Mae, the very definition of secondary mortgage institutions implies 
that you have a primary market. 

What happens when that primary market has eroded and is 

Sne? This is why out of sheer necessity, Fannie Mae and Freddie 
ac have had to come in to a level that otherwise would have been 
the basis upon which they would be operating on top of that pri- 
mary housing market. 

Anyway, working together we will get there. I can't assure you 
how fast or how far, but we will try. 

Thank you very much, gentlemen. 

The subcommittee will stand adjourned. I want to incorporate 
with the unanimous consent request to include testimony, the one I 
had mentioned previously. We will add the National Low Income 
Housing Coalition's. 

[The information referred to can be found in the appendix.] 

[Whereupon, at 1:20 p.m., the hearing was adjourned.] 



^Google 



,db»GoogIc 



APPENDIX 



July 18, 1991 



sz,db»GoogIc 



H5P H.R.2900 



To improve supervision and regulation with respect to the financial safely 
and soundness of the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal 
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and the Federal Home Loan Bank 
System, and for other purposes. 



IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

July 16, 1991 
Mr. Gonzalez (for himself, Mr. Wylie, and Mrs. Rockema) introduced the 
following bill; which waa referred to the Committee on Banking, Finance 
and Urban Affairs 



A BILL 

To improve supervision and regulation with respect to the 
financial safety and soundness of the Federal National 
Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation, and the Federal Home Loan Bank System, 
and for other purposes. 

1 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa- 

2 fives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, 

3 SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

4 (a) Short Title. — This Act may be cited as the 

5 "Government-Sponsored Housing Enterprises Financial 

6 Safety and Soundness Act of 1991". 

7 (b) Table of Contents. — 



!£ ibyGoogle 



Sec 1. Short title and table of content* 
Sea. 3. Definition*. 
TITLB I— SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF FNM A AND FHLMC 



Sec 101. Establishment o( Office of Secondary Market tumtoaBm and Over- 
tight. 
See. 102. Director. 
Sec 103. Authority of Director. 
Sec 104. Personnel. 
Sec 10S. Funding. 
Sec. 106. Annua] reporla. 
Sec 107. Regulation* and order*. 

Subtitle B — toeaafcKBtt to Other Act* 

Sec 121. Amendment* to Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act. 
Sec 122. Amendments to Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act 
Sec 123. Amendment* to title 5, United State* Code. 

Subtitle C — Implementation 

Sec 131. Implementation. 



Sec 201. Risk-baaed capital level*. 

Sec 202. Minimum capital level*. 

Sec 203. Critical capital level*. 

Sec 204. Enforcement level*. 

Sec 205. Mandatory supervisory action* applicable to enterprise* within level 

n. 

Sec 206. Supervisory action* applicable to enterprises within level HI. 

Sec 207. Mandatory appointment of conservator For enterprises within level IV. 

Sec. 208. Conservatorship. 

Sec 209. Capital restoration plan*. 

Sec 210. Judicial review of Director action. 

Sec. 211. Examinations. 

Sec 212. Civil money penalties for failure to report 



See. 301. Cease-and-desist proceeding*. 

Sec 302. Temporary cease-and-desist order*. 

Sec. 303. Hearings and judicial review. 

Sec 304. Enforcement and jurisdiction 

Sec. 305. Civil money penalties. 

Sec 306. Notice of service. 

See. 307. Subpoena authority. 



V Google 



Sec. 401. Datie* of PedenJ Hoaanf Finance Board. 

1 SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL. FINDINGS. 

2 The Congress finds that — 

3 (1) the Federal National Mortgage Association, 

4 the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and 

5 the Federal Home Loan Banks have important pub- 

6 lie missions that are reflected in the statutes estab- 

7 lishing the enterprises; 

8 (2) because the continued ability of the Federal 

9 National Mortgage Association and the Federal 

10 Home Loan Mortgage Corporation to accomplish 

1 1 their public missions is important to providing hous- 

12 ing in the United States and the health of the Na- 

13 tion's economy, more effective Federal regulation is 

14 needed to reduce the risk of failure of the enter- 

15 prises; 

16 (3) the Federal National Mortgage Association, 

17 the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and 

18 the Federal Home Loan Banks currently pose mini- 

19 mal financial risk to the Federal Government; 

20 (4) such enterprises are not backed by the full 

21 faith and credit of the United States; 

22 (5) the entity regulating the Federal National 

23 Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan 

24 Mortgage Corporation should have sufficient autbn- 



ibyGc-Ogle 



US 

4 

1 oray from the enterprises and special interest 

2 groups; 

3 (6) the entity regulating such enterprises 

4 should have the authority to establish capital stand- 

5 ards, require financial disclosure, prescribe adequate 

6 standards for books and records and other internal 

7 controls, conduct examinations when necessary, and 

8 enforce compliance with the standards and rules that 

9 it establishes; and 

10 (7) while the Federal Housing Finance Board 

11 has the authority necessary to effectively regulate 

12 the financial safety and soundness of the operations 

13 of the Federal Home Loan Banks, the Federal 

14 Home Loan Bank Act should be amended to empha- 

15 size that providing for financial safety and sound- 

16 ness is the primary mission of Hie Board. 

17 SEC 3. DEFINITIONS. 

18 For purposes of this Act: 

19 (1) Compensation. — The term "compensa- 

20 tion" means any payment of money or the provision 

21 of any other thing of current or potential value in 

22 connection with employment. 

23 (2) Core capital.— The term "core capital" 

24 means, with respect to an enterprise, the sum of the 



ibyGoogle 



114 

5 

1 following (as determined in accordance with general- 

2 ly accepted accounting principles): 

3 (A) The par value of outstanding common 

4 stock. 

5 (B) The par value of outstanding preferred 

6 stock. 

7 (C) Paid-in capital. 

8 (D) Retained earnings. 

9 (3) Director. — The term "Director" means 

10 the Director of the Office of Secondary Market Ex- 

11 animation and Oversight of the Department of 

12 Housing and Urban Development 

13 (4) Enterprise. — The term "enterprise" 

14 means — 

15 (A) the Federal National Mortgage Asso- 

16 ciation and any affiliate thereof; and 

17 (B) the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 

18 Corporation and any affiliate thereof. 

19 (5) Executive officer. — The term "executive 

20 officer" means, with respect to an enterprise — 

21 (A) the chief executive officer of the enter- 

22 prise; 

23 (B) the chief financial officer of the enter- 

24 prise; and 



agnized by GOOgle 



115 

6 

1 (C) any other individual who participates, 

2 or has authority to participate, in major policy- 

3 making functions of the enterprise (other than 

4 in the capacity of a director), whether or not 

5 the individual — 

6 (i) has an official title; 

7 (ii) has a title designating the indrvid- 

8 ual as an assistant; or 

9 (iii) is serving with compensation. 

10 (6) New program. — The terra "new program" 

11 means, with respect to an enterprise, any purchase, 

12 servicing, sale, swap, loan on the security of, or 

13 other dealing in mortgages or mortgage-related in- 

14 struments that differs significantly and materially 

15 (in terms of the type of property, term of mortgage, 

16 . nature of mortgage instrument, type or amount of 

17 mortgage insurance, nature of lien, form of 

18 securitization, or any other significant matter in- 

19 volved) from any activity or program engaged in by 

20 the enterprise on or before the date of the enactment 

21 of this Act. The term does not include any program 

22 of an enterprise approved by the Secretary of Hous- 

23 ing and Urban Development on or before the date 

24 of the enactment of this Act, to the extent such pro- 



id b y Google 



1 gram is carried oat in a temporary or limited man- 

2 ner. 

3 (7) Office. — The term "Office" means the Of- 

4 Gee of Secondary Market Examination and Over- 

5 sight of the Department of Housing and Urban De- 

6 velopment. 

7 (8) Regulatory capital. — The term "regula- 

8 tory capital" means, with respect to an enterprise — 

9 (A) the core capital of the enterprise phis 

10 a total allowance for foreclosure losses (includ- 

11 ing an allowance for portfolio mortgage losses, 

12 an allowance for nonreimbursable foreclosure 

13 costs on government claims, and any liability 

14 reflected on the balance sheet for the corpora- 

15 tion for estimated foreclosure losses on mort- 

16 gage-backed securities); phis 

17 (B) any other amounts from sources of 

18 funds available to absorb losses incurred by the 

19 enterprise, that the Secretary by regulation de- 

20 termines are appropriate to include in determin- 

21 ing regulatory capital. 

22 (9) Secretary,— The term "Secretary" means 

23 the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. 

24 (10) State.— The term "State" means the 

25 States of the United States, the District of Colum- 



jOOgle 



1 bia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Bioo, the Com- 

2 monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, 

3 the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Ter- 

4 ritory of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory 

5 or possession of the United States. 

6 TITLE I— SUPERVISION AND 

7 REGULATION OF FNMA 

8 ANDFHLMC 

9 Subtitle A— Establishment of Fi- 
10 nancial Safety and Soundness 
u Regulator 

12 SEC 101. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF SECONDARY 

13 MARKET EXAMINATION AND OVERSIGHT. 

14 Effective January 1, 1992, there shall be established 

15 in the Department of Housing and Urban Development 

16 the Office of Secondary Market Examination and Over- 

17 sight, which shall be an office within the Department 

18 SEC 102. DIRECTOR 

19 (a) In General. — The Office shall be under the 

20 management of a Director, who shall be appointed by the 

21 President by and with the advice and consent of the Sen- 

22 ate from among individuals who are citizens of the United 

23 States and have experience in fmanmnl management or 

24 oversight. An individual may not be appointed as Director 

25 if the individual has served as an executive officer of an 



Google 



1 enterprise at any time during the 5-year period ending 

2 upon the appointment of such individual. 

3 (b) Term. — The Director shall be appointed for a 

4 term of 5 years. 

5 (c) Vacancy. — A vacancy in the position of Director 

6 shall be filled in the manner in which the original appoint- 

7 ment was made under subsection (a). Any Director ap- 

8 pointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration 

9 of the term for which the Director's predecessor was ap- 

10 pointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of that 

11 term. 

12 (d) Service After End op Term. — A Director 

13 may serve after the expiration of the term for which the 

14 Director was appointed until a successor Director has 

15 been appointed. 

16 (e) Deputy Director. — There shall be in the Office 

17 a Deputy Director, who shall be appointed by the Presi- 

18 dent by and with the consent of the Senate, and who shall 

19 have such functions, powers, and duties as the Director 

20 shall prescribe. In the event of the death, resignation, sick- 

21 ness; or absence of the Director, the Deputy Director shall 

22 serve as acting Director until the return of the Director 

23 or the appointment of a successor under subsection (c). 



^Google 



10 

1 SEC. 103. AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR. 

2 (a) Exclusive Authority. — The Director shall 

3 make determinations and take actions that the Director 

4 determines necessary with respect to each enterprise 

5 regarding — 

6 (1) establishment under section 201(a)(4) of 

7 risk-based capital standards for risk associated with 
S new programs of the enterprises; 

9 (2) examinations of the enterprises under sec- 

10 tion 211; 

11 (3) decisions to appoint conservators for the en- 

12 tcrprises; 

13 ■ (4) enforcement actions under titles II and HI, 

14 including any final decisions in contested adminis- 

15 trative enforcement proceedings; and 

16 (5) approval of payments of dividends by the 

17 enterprises under section 303(c)(2) of the Federal 

18 National Mortgage Association Charter Act and sec- 

19 tion 303(b)(3)(B) of the Federal Home Loan Mort- 

20 gage Corporation Act 

21 The authority of the Director under this subsection shall 

22 not be subject to the approval of the Secretary. 

23 (b) Authority Subject to Approval op Secre- 

24 tary. — Any authority of the Director not referred to in 

25 subsection (a), including the authority to issue rules and 

26 regulations, shall be subject to the review and approval 

*" m D^izedbyGOOgle 



120 

11 

1 of the Secretary, but shall not be subject to the review 

2 or approval of any other officer of the Department of 

3 Housing and Urban Development. 

4 (e) Delegation of Authority. — The Director may 

5 delegate to officers and employees of the Office any of the 

6 functions, powers, and duties of the Director, as the Direc- 

7 tor considers appropriate. 

8 SEC. 104. PERSONNEL. 

9 The Director shall appoint and fix the compensation 

10 of such officers and employees of the Office as the Direc- 

11 tor considers necessary to carry out the functions of the 

12 Director and the Office. Officers and employees shall be 

13 appointed without regard to civil service laws and their 

14 compensation fixed without regard to the provisions of 

15 title 5, United States Code. 

16 SEC. 108. FUNDING. 

17 (a) Assessments and Fees. — The Director may es- 

18 tablish and collect from the enterprises such assessments, 

19 fees, and other charges that the Director considers neces- 

20 sary so that the amount collected is an amount sufficient 

21 to provide for all costs and expenses of the Office of Sec- 

22 ondary Market Examination and Oversight, including the 

23 expenses of any examinations under section 211. 

24 (b) Fund.— There is established in the Treasury of 

25 the United States a fund to be known as the Secondary 



ibyGoogle 



121 

12 

1 Market Examination and Oversight Fund. Any assess- 

2 ments, fees, and charges collected pursuant to subsection 

3 (a) shall be deposited in the Fund. Amounts in the Fund 

4 shall be available, to the extent provided in appropriations 

5 Acts— 

6 (1) to carry out the responsibilities of the Di- 

7 rector relating to the enterprises; and 

8 (2) for necessary administrative and 

9 nonadministrative expenses of the Office to -carry out 

10 the purposes of this Act. 

11 SEC 10ft ANNUAL REPORTS. 

12 The Director shall submit to the Congress, not later 

13 than April 15 of each year, a written report, which shall 

14 include — 

15 (1) a description of the actions taken, and being 

16 undertaken, by the Director to carry out this Act; 

17 (2) a description of the financial safety and 

18 soundness of each enterprise, including the results 

19 and conclusions of the annual examinations of the 

20 enterprises conducted under section 211(a)(1); and 

21 (3) any recommendations for legislation to en- 

22 hance the financial safely and soundness of the en- 

23 terprises. 



..■«i.*,-CoogIe 



122 

13 

1 SEC. 107. REGULATIONS AND ORDERS. 

2 Subject to the approval of the Secretary (as provided 

3 in section 103(b)), the Director shall issue any such regu- 

4 lations and orders necessary to cany out the duties of the 

5 Director and to cany out this Act. The regulations under 

6 this section shall be issued after notice and opportunity 

7 for public comment pursuant to the provisions of section 

8 553 of title 5, United States Code (notwithstanding sub- 

9 sections (b)(B) and (d)(3) of such section). 

io Subtitle B — Amendments to Other 

n Acts 

12 SEC 121. AMENDMENTS TO FEDERAL NATIONAL MORT- 

13 GAGE ASSOCIATION CHARTER ACT. 

14 (a) Capitalization. — Section 303 of the Federal 

15 National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 

16 1718) is amended— 

17 (1) in subsection (a), by inserting after the pe- 

18 riod at the end the following new sentence: "The 

19 corporation may issue shares of common stock to 

20 mortgage sellers and borrowers in return for appro- 

21 priate payments into capital or capital and sur- 

22 plus."; 

23 (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the 

24 following new subsection: 

25 "(b)(1) The corporation may impose charges or fees, 

26 which may be regarded as elements of pricing, with the 

tmmoom 



123 

14 

1 objective that all costs and expenses of the operations of 

2 tile corporation should be within its income derived from 

3 such operations and that such operations should be folly 

4 self-supporting. 

5 "(2) All earnings from the operations of the corpora- 

6 tion shall annually be transferred to the general surplus 

7 account of the corporation. At any time, funds of the gen- 

8 eral surplus account may, in the discretion of the board 

9 of directors, be transferred to reserves."; 

10 (3) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the 

11 following new subsection: 

12 "(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the cor- 

13 poration may pay to holders of its common stock such divi- 

14 dends as may be declared by the board of directors. All 

15 dividends shall be charged against the general surplus ae- 

16 count of the corporation. 

17 "(2) The corporation may not make any payment of 

18 dividends that would decrease the regulatory capital of the 

19 corporation (as such term is defined in section 3 of the 

20 Government-Sponsored Housing Enterprises Financial 

21 Safety and Soundness Act of 1991) to an amount less 

22 than the risk-based capital level for the corporation estab- 

23 lished under section 201 of such Act or would result in 

24 the corporation not equaling or exceeding the minimum 

25 capital level for the corporation established under section 



jOOgle 



124 

15 

1 202 of such Act, without prior written approval of the pay- 

2 ment by the Director of the Office of Secondary Market 

3 Examination and Oversight of the Department of Housing 

4 and Urban Development. 

5 "(3) The Director of the Office of Secondary Market 

6 Examination and Oversight may require the corporation 

7 to submit a report to the Director before the declaration 

8 and payment of any dividend by the corporation. The re- 

9 port shall be made in such form and under such circum- 

10 stances and shall contain such information as the Director 

1 1 shall require."; and 

12 (4) in subsection (f) — 

13 (A) by striking "to make payments" and 

14 all that follows through "such capital contribu- 

15 tions,"; and 

16 (B) by striking "additional shares of such 

17 stock," and inserting "shares of common stock 

18 of the corporation". 

19 (b) Obligations. — 

20 (1) In general.— Section 304 of the Federal 

21 National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 

22 U.S.C. 1719) is amended— 

23 (A) in the first sentence of subsection (b), 

24 by striking the semicolon and all that follows 



^iizad byGoogle 



12S 

16 

1 through "Secretary of Housing and Urban De- 

2 velopment"^ and 

3 (B) in subsection (e), by striking the 

4 fourth sentence. 

5 (2) Effective date. — The amendments made 

6 by paragraph (1) shall take effect upon the expira- 

7 tion of the 2-year period beginning on the date of 

8 the enactment of this Act. 

9 (c) Assessments for Office of Secondary Mar- 

10 ket Examination and Oversight. —The first sentence 

11 of section 304(f) of the Federal National Mortgage Asso- 

12 ciation Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1719(f)) is amended by 

13 inserting after ''section 309(g)" the following: "of this Act 

14 and section 105(a) of the Government-Sponsored Housing 

15 Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 

16 1991". 

17 (d) Board of Directors. — 

18 (1) In general. — Effective on the date of the 

19 enactment of this Act, the second sentence of section 

20 308(b) of the Federal National Mortgage Associa- 

21 tion Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1723(b)) is amended— 

22 (A) by striking "and" after the second 

23 comma; and 

24 (B) by inserting before the period at the 

25 end the following: ", and at least one person 



ly Google 



126 

17 " 

1 who represents consumer interests or the inter- 

2 ests of residents of low-income housing". 

3 (2) Implementation.— The amendments made 

4 by paragraph (1) shall apply to the first annual ap- 

5 pointment by the President of members to the board 

6 of directors of the Federal National Mortgage Asso- 

7 ciation that occurs after the date of the enactment 

8 of this Act. 

9 (e) Compensation. — Section 309(d) of the Federal 

10 National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 

11 1723a(d)) is amended— 

12 (1) in the first sentence of paragraph (2)— 

13 (A) by inserting ", subject to paragraph 

14 (3)," before "to fix"; and 

15 (B) by striking "as it may determine" and 

16 inserting the following: "as the board of direc- 

17 tors determines reasonable and comparable with 

18 employment positions in other similar business- 

19 es involving similar duties and responsibilities"; 

20 and 

21 (2) by adding at the end the following new 

22 paragraph: 

23 "(3)(A) The compensation for any executive officer 

24 of the corporation who, after the date of the enactment 

25 of the Government-Sponsored Housing Enterprises Finan- 



Kit* Google 



127 

18 

1 eial Safety and Soundness Act of 1991, accepts employ- 

2 ment, accepts a new position, or renews any contract for 

3 employment as an executive officer of the corporation, 

4 shall not exceed the sum of (i) the level of compensation 

5 for an executive officer of the Federal Home Loan Mort- 

6 gage Corporation with comparable duties and responsibil- 

7 ities under the compensation practices for the Federal 

8 Home Loan Mortgage Corporation in effect on July 1, 

9 1991, and (ii) the aggregate amount of any adjustments 

10 under subparagraph (B). 

1 1 "(6) The annual rate of pay for each executive officer 

12 position of the corporation may be adjusted pursuant to 

13 each adjustment in the rates of pay under the General 

14 Schedule under title 5, United States' Code, that takes ef- 

15 feet under section 5303 of such title on or after Jury 1, 

16 1991. Each such adjustment shall be an amount not ex- 

17 ceeding the amount equal to the percentage of such annual 

18 rate of pay which corresponds to the overall average per- 

19 centage of the adjustment in the rates of pay under the 

20 General Schedule. 

21 "(C) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop- 

22 ment shall review the compensation practices of the corpo- 

23 ration to ensure compliance with the requirements of this 

24 paragraph. The Secretary shall review the duties and re- 
23 sponsibilities of executive officers of the corporation and 



^Google 



128 

19 

1 may determine comparability under subparagraph (A) of 

2 such executive positions with executive positions of the 

3 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. 

4 "(D) For purposes of this paragraph: 

5 "(i) The term 'compensation' means any pay- 

6 ment of money or the provision of any other thing 

7 of current or potential value in connection with era- 

8 ployment. 

9 "(ii) The term 'executive officer' means — 

10 "(I) the chief executive officer of the cor- 

11 poration; 

12 "(II) the chief financial officer of the cor- 

13 poration; and 

14 "(III) any other individual who partiei- 

15 pates, or has authority to participate, in major 

16 . policymaking functions of the corporation 

17 (other than in the capacity of a director), 

18 whether or not the individual has an official 

19 title, has a title designating the individual as an 

20 assistant, or is serving with compensation.". 

21 (f) General Regulatory Powers. — Section 

22 309(h) of the Federal Rational Mortgage Association 

23 Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1723a(h)) is amended to read as 

24 follows: 



WJ3* 

D iizedbyGOOgle 



129 

20 

1 "(b)(1) Except for the authority of the Director of 

2 the Office of Secondary Market Examination and Over- 

3 sight pursuant to section 108(a) of the Govemment-Spon- 

4 sored Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Sound- 

5 ness Act of 1991, the Secretary of Housing and Urban 

6 Development shall have general regulatory authority over 

7 the Federal National Mortgage Association and shall 

8 make such rules and regulations as shall be necessary and 

9 proper to ensure that the purposes of this title are aecom- 

10 plished. 

11 "(2)(A) The Secretary shall require that a reasonable 

12 portion of the corporation's mortgage purchases be related 

13 to the national goal of providing adequate housing for low- 

14 and moderate-income families, but with reasonable eco- 

15 nomic return to the corporation. 

16 "(B) For purposes of this paragraph, the term 'low- 

17 income family 1 means a family or individual whose income 

18 does not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the 

19 area, as determined by the Secretary with adjustments for 

20 smaller and larger families, and the term 'moderate-in- 

21 come family' means a family or individual who is not a 

22 low-income family and whose income does not exceed 100 

23 percent of the median income for the area, as determined 

24 by the Secretary with adjustments for smaller and larger 

25 families; except that the Secretary may establish income 



^iizad byGoogle 



21 

1 ceilings for low- and moderate-income families higher and 

2 lower than 80 and 100 percent of the median for the area, 

3 respectively, if the Secretary determines that such van- 

4 ations are necessary because of prevailing levels of con- 

5 stmction or rental costs or unusually high or low family 

6 incomes. 

7 "(3) The corporation may not carry oat any new pro- 

8 gram (as such term is defined in section 3 of the Qovern- 

9 ment-Sponsored Housing Enterprises Financial Safety 

10 and Soundness Act of 1991) without the prior written ap- 

1 1 proval of the new program by the Secretary pursuant to 

12 a determination by the Secretary that the program con- 

13 forms with the requirements and purposes of this title. 

14 "(4) The Secretary may require the corporation to 

15 make reports on its activities as the Secretary deems ad- 

16 visable. The Secretary shall, not later than June 30 of 

17 each year, report to the Congress on the activities of the 

18 corporation under this title.". 

19 (g) Requests fob Approval.— The first sentence 

20 of section 309(i) of the Federal National Mortgage Asso- 

21 ciation Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1723a(i» is amended by 

22 striking ", after the date of the enactment of the Second- 

23 ary Mortgage Market Enhancement Act of 1984,". 

24 (h) GAO AUDITS.— The first sentence of section 

25 309(j) of the Federal National Mortgage Association 



^Google 



1 Charter Act (12 U.8.C. 1723a(j)) is amended by striking 

2 "The mortgage transactions of the corporation may" and 

3 inserting "The financial transactions of the corporation 

4 shall". 

5 (i) Reports to Director.— Section 309 of the Fed- 

6 era! National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 

7 U.S.C. 1723a) is amended by adding at the end the follow- 

8 ing new subsection: 

9 "00(1) The corporation shall submit to the Director 

10 of the Office of Secondary Market Examination and Over- 

1 1 sight of the Department of Housing and Urban Develop- 

12 ment quarterly reports of the fjinmriaj condition of the 

13 corporation which shall be in such form, contain such in- 

14 formation, and be submitted on such dates as the Director 

15 of the Office of Secondary Market Examination and Over- 

16 sight shall require. 

17 "(2) Each report of condition shall contain a declara- 

18 tion by the president, vice president, treasurer, or any 

19 other officer designated by the board of directors of the 

20 corporation to make such declaration, that the report is 

21 true and correct to the best of such officer's knowledge 

22 and belief. The correctness of the report of condition shall 

23 be attested by the signatures of at least 3 of the members 

24 of the board of directors other than the officer making 

25 such declaration and shall include a declaration that each 



3ig,:iz e dbyGOOgle 



1S2 

23 

1 such member has examined the report and that the report 

2 is true and correct to the best of each such officer's knowl- 

3 edge and belief. 

4 "(3) The Director of the Office of Secondary Market 

5 Examination and Oversight may require the corporation 

6 to submit additional reports of financial condition, which 

7 shall be in such form, contain such information, and be 

8 submitted on such dates as the Director may require. The 

9 Director may also require the corporation to submit spe- 

10 cial reports whenever, in the judgment of the Director, 

11 Buch reports are necessary to carry out the purposes of 

12 the Government-Sponsored Housing Enterprises Financial 

13 Safety and Soundness Act of 1991.". 

14 (j) Stock Issuances. — The second sentence of sec- 

15 tion 311 of the. Federal National Mortgage Association 

16 Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1723c) is amended by striking 

17 "and all issuances of stock, and debt obligations converti- 

18 ble into stock, by the corporation". 

19 (k) Affordable Housing Pboqeam.— The Federal 

20 National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 
21 , 1716 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 312 

22 the following new section: 

23 "AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM— FEDERAL NATIONAL 

24 MOKTGAGK ASSOCIATION 

25 "Sec. 313.. (a) In General.— The corporation shall 

26 carry out an affordable housing program under this sec- 



jOOgle 



188 

24 

1 tion to assist in acquisition, construction, and rehabilita- 

2 tion of rental housing (including limited equity coopera- 

3 tives). Contributions by the corporation required under the 

4 affordable housing program shall be in addition to any re- 

5 quirements relating to low- and moderate-income housing 

6 under section 309(h). 

7 "(b) Contributions to Program.— 

8 "(1) Percentage of earnings.— In each 

9 year, the corporation shall reserve from the general 

10 surplns account of the corporation an amount equal 

11 to 20 percent of any dividends paid by the corpora- 

12 tion during the preceding calendar year. Amounts 

13 reserved under this paragraph shall be used under 

14 the affordable housing program under this section. 

15 "(2) Prohibition on increase of fees. — 

16 The corporation may not increase any fees or 

17 charges for services of the corporation as a result of 

18 . the requirement under paragraph (1). The Secretary 

19 of Housing and Urban Development shall review the 

20 fees and charges imposed by the corporation, as the 

21 Secretary determines necessary, to ensure oompH- 

22 ance with the requirements of this paragraph. If the 

23 Secretary determines that the corporation has in- 

24 creased foes or charges in violation of the first sen- 

25 tence of this paragraph, the Secretary may revise 



v Google 



184 

25 

1 snch fees and charges as the Secretary considers ap- 

2 propriate. 

3 "(c) Exemption for Inadequate Capital,— 

4 "(I) In general.— If at any time the Director 

5 of the Office of Secondary Market Examination and 

6 Oversight of the Department of Housing and Urban 

7 Development classifies the corporation as within en- 

8 forcement level II, HI, or IV (as established under 

9 section 204 of the Government-Sponsored Housing 

10 Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 

11 1991), for the period during which the corporation 

12 is so classified, the corporation shall not be required 

13 ■ to reserve amounts under subsection (b)(1) for use 

14 under the affordable housing program under this 

15 section. 

16 "(2) Termination of exemption. — Upon re- 

17 classification of the corporation within enforcement 

18 level I (as established under section 204 of such 

19 Act), the Director of the Office of Secondary Market 

20 Examination and Oversight shall determine the per- 

21 centage of dividends to be reserved by the corpora- 

22 tion pursuant to subsection (b)(1) for use under the 

23 affordable housing program for the remainder of the 

24 calendar year during which such reclassification oc- 

25 curs. The percentage shall be reduced on a pro rata 



^Google 



US 

26 

1 basis to take into account the portion of the year 

2 daring which the corporation wai classified as within 

3 enforcement level II , 111, or IV. 

4 "(d) Program Rbqtjihbmbnts.— The board of tti- 

5 rectors of the corporation shall establish requirements to 

6 implement the affordable hooting program under this sec- 

7 tion, which shall — 

8 "(1) specify priorities for using amounts re- 

9 served for use under the affordable housing pro- 

10 gram; 

11 "(2) ensure that such amounts are used only 

12 for specific housing projects selected for assistance 

13 under the program by the board of directors; 

14 "(3) provide that housing assisted with such 

15 amounts shall be rental housing for which, during 

16 the useful life of the housing— 

17 "(A) not less than 20 percent of the units 

18 of the housing are occupied, or available for oc- 

19 cupancy, only by families or individuals whose 

20 income does not exceed 50 percent of the medi- 

21 an income for the area, as determined by the 

22 Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 

23 with adjustments for smaller and larger fami- 

24 lies; or 



^Google 



136 

27 

1 "(B) not less than 40 percent of the units 

2 of the housing are occupied, or available for oe- 

3 cupaney, only by families or individuals whose 

4 income does not exceed 60 percent of the medi- 

5 an income for the area, as determined by the 

6 Secretary with adjustments for smaller and 

7 larger families; 

8 "(4) require the person acquiring, constructing, 

9 or rehabilitating a low-income housing project assist- 

10 ed under the program to certify that the housing will 

11 comply with paragraph (3) and any other require- 

12 ments pursuant to this section; 

13 "(5) coordinate activities under this section 

14 with other Federal and federally-subsidized afford- 

15 able housing activities to the maximum extent possi- 

16 ble; and 

17 "(6) provide for national geographic diversity 

18 among housing projects assisted under this section. 

19 "(e) Monitoring.— The Secretary of Housing and 

20 Urban Development shall monitor housing projects assist- 

21 ed under the affordable housing program under this sec- 

22 tion to ensure continued compliance with paragraph (3) 

23 and any other requirements pursuant to this section. 

24 "(f) Report. — The corporation shall submit to the 

25 Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, not less 



ibyGoogle 



187 

28 

1 than annually, a report describing the activities of the cor- 

2 poration in carrying oat the affordable housing program 

3 under this section.". 

4 (1) Technical Amendments. — 

5 (1) Section 302(c) of the Federal National 

6 Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.G. 

7 1717(c)) is amended — 

8 (A) in paragraph (2) — 

9 (i) in the first sentence following sub- 
10 paragraph (P), by striking "him" and hi- 
ll set-ting "the trustor"; and 

12 (ii) in the last sentence, by striking 

13 "his" each place it appears and inserting 

14 "the trustor's"; and 

15 (B) in paragraph (3), by striking "he" 

16 each place it appears and inserting "the 

17 trustor". 

18 (2) Section 304(c) of the Federal National 

19 Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.8.C. 

20 1719(c)) is amended— 

21 (A) by striking "his" each place it appears 

22 and inserting "the Secretary's"; and 

23 (B) in the fourth sentence— 

24 (i) by striking "he" and inserting "the 

25 Secretary"; and 



^Google 



138 

89 

1 (ii) by striking " him " und inserting 

2 "the Secretary". 

3 (3) Section 309 of the Federal National Mort- 

4 gage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1723a) is 

5 amended — 

6 (A) in subsection (d)(2) — 

7 (i) in the third sentence, by striking 

8 "his employment" each place it appears 

9 and inserting "the employment of such of- 

10 ficer or employee"; and 

11 (ii) in the last sentence, by striking 

12 "his basic pay" and inserting "the basic 

13 pay of such person"; and 

14 (B) in subsection (e), by striking "he or 

15 it" and inserting "the individual, association, 

16 partnership, or corporation". 

17 (m) Effective Date. — Except as provided in sub- 

18 sections (b)(2) and (d)(1), the amendments made by this 

19 section shall take effect on January 1, 1992. 

20 SEC 122. AMENDMENTS TO FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORT- 

21 GAGS CORPORATION ACT. 

22 (a) Definitions.— Section 302 of the Federal Home 

23 Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1451) is 

24 amended by adding at the end the following new subsec- 

25 tions: 



ibyGoogle 



189 

30 

1 "(m) The term 'low-income family', means a family 

2 or individual whose income does not exceed 80 percent of 

3 the median income for the area, as determined by the Sec- 

4 retary with adjustments for smaller and larger families, 

5 except that the Secretary may establish income ceilings 

6 higher and lower than 80 percent of the marti^n for the 

7 area if the Secretary determines that such variations are 

8 necessary because of prevailing levels of construction or 

9 rental coats or unusually high or low family incomes. 

10 "(n) The term 'moderate-income family 1 means a 

1 1 family or individual who is not a low-income family and 

12 whose income does not exceed 100 percent of the median 

13 income for the area, as determined by the Secretary with 

14 adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that 

15 the Secretary may establish income ceilings higher and 

16 lower than 100 percent of the median for the area if the 
. 17 Secretary determines that such variations are necessary 

18 because of prevailing levels of construction or rental costs 

19 or unusually high or low family incomes.". 

20 (b) Board of Directors.— 

21 (1) In general. — Effective on the date of the 

22 enactment of this Act, the second sentence of section 

23 303(a)(2)(A) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 

24 Corporation Act (12 U.3.C. 1452(a)(2)(A)) is 
25 



it* Google 



140 

31 

1 (A) by striking "and" after the second 

2 comma; and 

3 (B) by inserting before the period at the 

4 end the following: ", and at least one person 

5 who represents consumer interests or the inter- 

6 eats of residents of low-income housing". 

7 (2) Implementation. — The amendments made 

8 by paragraph (1) shall apply to the first annual ap- 

9 pointment by the President of members to the Board 

10 of Directors of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 

11 Corporation that occurs after the date of the enact- 

12 ment of this Act. 

13 (c) General Regulatory Powers. — Section 

14 303(b) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 

15 Act (12 U.S.C. 1452(b)) is amended— 

16 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking "The" and in- 

17 serting the following: "Except for the authority of 

18 the Director of die Office of Secondary Market Ex- 

19 amination and Oversight of the Department of 

20 Housing and Urban Development pursuant to see- 

21 tion 103(a) of the Government-Sponsored Housing 

22 Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 

23 1991, the"; 

24 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking "may require" 

25 and inserting "shall require"; 



^Google 



1 (3) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the 

2 following new paragraph: 

3 "(3)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the 

4 Corporation may pay to holders of its common stock such 

5 dividends as may be declared by the Board of Directors. 

6 "(B) The Corporation may not make any payment 

7 of dividends that would decrease the regulatory capital of 

8 the Corporation (as such term is defined in section 3 of 

9 the Qovernnwnt-Sponsored Housing Enterprises Financial 

10 Safety and Soundness Act of 1991) to an amount less 

11 than the risk-based capital level for the Corporation estab- 

12 lished under section 201 of such Act or would result in 

13 the Corporation not equaling or exceeding the minimum 

14 capital level for the Corporation established under section 

15 202 of such Act, without prior written approval of the pay- 

16 ment by the Director of the Office of Secondary Market 

17 Examination and Oversight of the Department of Housing 

18 and Urban Development. 

19 "(C) The Director of the Office of Secondary Market 

20 Examination and Oversight may require the Corporation 

21 to submit a report to the Director before the declaration 

22 and payment of any dividend by the Corporation. The re- 

23 port shall be made in such form and under such circum- 

24 stances and shall contain such information as the Director 

25 shall require."; 



ibyGoogle 



142 

33 

1 (4) in paragraph (4), by striking "may examine 

2 and audit the books and financial transactions of the 

3 Corporation and"; and 

4 (5) by striking paragraph (6) and inserting the 

5 following new paragraph: 

6 "(6) The Corporation may not carry out any new pro* 

7 gram (as such term is defined in section 2 of the Govern- 

8 ment -Sponsored Homing Enterprises Financial Safety 

9 and Soundness Act of 1991) without the prior written ap- 

10 proval of the new program by the Secretary pursuant to 

11 a determination by the Secretary that the program con- 

12 forms with the requirements and purposes of this title.". 

13 (d) Ratio of Capital, and Obligations.— Effec- 

14 tive upon the expiration of the 3-year period beginning on 

15 the date of the enactment of this Act, section 303(b) of 

16 the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 

17 U.S.C. 1452(b)) is amended by striking paragraph (5). 

18 (e) Compensation.— Section 303 of the Federal 

19 Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1452) 

20 is amended — 

21 (1) in clause (9) of the first sentence of subsec- 

22 tion (c)— 

23 (A) by inserting "(subject to subsection 

24 (h))" before "fix"s and 



ly Google 



148 

34 

1 (B) by inserting after "agents" the follow* 

2 ing: "as the Board of Directors determines rea- 

3 sonable and comparable with employment posi- 

4 tions in other similar businesses involving simi- 

5 lar duties and responsibilities"; and 

6 (2) by adding at the end the following new sub- 

7 section: 

8 "(h)(1) Notwithstanding clause (9) of the first sen- 

9 tence of subsection (c), the compensation for any executive 

10 officer of the Corporation who, after the date of the enact- 

11 ment of the Government-Sponsored Rousing Enterprises 

12 Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1991, accepts era- 

13 ployment, accepts a new position, or renews any contract 

14 for employment as an executive officer of the Corporation, 

15 shall not exceed the sum of (A) the level of compensation 

16 for such executive position (or a position having compara- 

17 ble duties and responsibilities) under the compensation 

18 practices for the Corporation in effect on July 1, 1991, 

19 and (B) the aggregate amount of any adjustments under 

20 paragraph (2). 

21 "(2) The annual rate of pay for each executive officer 

22 position of the Corporation may be adjusted pursuant to 

23 each adjustment in the rates of pay under the General 

24 Schedule under title 5, United States Code, that takes ef- 

25 feet under section 5303 of such title on or after Jury 1, 



ibyGoogle 



1 1991. Each such adjustment shall be an amount not ex- 

2 ceeding the amount equal to the percentage of such annual 

3 rate of pay which corresponds to the overall average per- 

4 centage of the adjustment in the rates of pay under the 

5 General Schedule. 

6 "(3) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop- 

7 ment shall review the compensation practices of the Corpo* 

8 ration to ensure compliance with the requirements of this 

9 subsection. The Secretary shall review the duties and re- 

10 sponsibilities of executive officers of the Corporation and 

11 may determine the comparability of such executive posi- 

12 tions for purposes of paragraph (1). 

13 "(4) For purposes of this subsection: 

14 "(A) The term 'compensation' means any pay- 

15 ment of money or the provision of any other thing 

16 of current or potential value in connection with em- 

17 ployment. 

18 "(B) The term 'executive officer' means — 

19 "(i) the chief executive officer of the Cor- 

20 poration; 

21 "(ii) the chief financial officer of the Cor- 

22 poration; and 

23 "(iii) any other individual who participates, 

24 or has authority to participate, in major policy- 

25 making functions of 'the Corporation (other 

^iizad byGoogle 



1 than in the capacity of a director), whether or 

2 not the individual has an official title, has a 

3 title designating the individnal as an assistant, 

4 or is serving with compensation.". 

5 (f) Capital Stock.— Section 304 of the Federal 

6 Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1453) 

7 is amended — 

8 (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking "The com- 

9 mon stock" and all that follows and inserting the 

10 following: "The common stock of the Corporation 

1 1 ■ shall consist of voting common stock, which shall be 

12 issued to such holders in the manner and amount, 

13 and subject to any limitations on concentration of 

14 ownership, as may be established by the Corpora- 
is tion."; 

16 (2) in subsection (a)(2)— 

17 (A) in the first sentence, by striking 

18 "nonvoting common stock and the"; and 

19 (B) by striking the last sentence; and 

20 (3) by striking subsections (b), (e), and (d). 

21 (g) Assessments for Office of Secondary Mar. 

22 ket Examination and Oversight.— The first sentence 

23 of section 306(i) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 

24 Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1455(i)) is amended by strik- 

25 ing "section 303(c) or 306(c)" and inserting the following: 



v Google 



146 

37 

1 "sections 303(c) and 306(c) of this Act and section 105(a) 

2 of the Government-Sponsored Housing Enterprises Finan- 

3 cial Safety and Soundness Act of 1991". 

4 (h) Reports to Director. — Section 307 of the 

5 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 

6 1456) is amended by adding at the end the following new 

7 subsection: 

8 "(c)(1) The Corporation shall submit to the Director 

9 of the Office of Secondary Market Examination and Over- 

10 sight of the Department of Housing and Urban Develop* 

11 ment quarterly reports of the financial condition of the 

12 Corporation which shall be in such form, contain such in- 

13 formation, and be submitted on such dates as the Director 

14 of the Office of Secondary Market Examination and Over- 

15 sight shall require. 

16 "(2) Each report of condition shall contain a declara- 

17 tion by the president, vice president, treasurer, or any 

18 other officer designated by the Board of Directors of the 

19 Corporation to make such declaration, that the report is 

20 true and correct to the best of such officer's knowledge 

21 and belief. The correctness of the report of condition shall 

22 be attested by the signatures of at least 3 of the members 

23 of the Board of Directors other than the officer making 

24 such declaration and shall include a declaration that each 
23 such member has examined the report and that the report 



^Google 



1 is true and correct to the best of each such officer's knowi- 

2 edge and belief . 

3 "(3) The Director of the Office of Secondary Market 

4 Examination and Oversight may require the Corporation 

5 to submit additional reports of financial condition, which 

6 shall be in such form, contain such information, and be 

7 submitted on such dates as the Director shall require. The 

8 Director may also require the Corporation to submit spe- 

9 cial reports whenever, in the judgment of the Director, 

10 such reports are necessary to carry out the purposes of 

1 1 the Government-Sponsored Housing Enterprises Financial 

12 Safety and Soundness Act of 1991.". 

13 (i) Affordable Housing Program. — The Federal 

14 Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1451 

15 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following 

16 new section: 

17 "AFFORDABLE housing program 

18 "Sec. 311. (a) In General. — The Corporation shall 

19 carry out an affordable housing program under this sec- 

20 tion to assist in acquisition, construction, and rehabiUta- 

21 tion of rental housing (including limited equity coopera- 

22 tives). Contributions by the Corporation required under 

23 the affordable housing program shall be in addition to any 

24 requirements relating to low- and moderate-income hous- 

25 ing under section 303(b)(2). 

26 "(b) Contributions to Program.— 



idbyGoogle 



148 

39 

1 "(1) PERCENTAGE OF EARNINGS. — In each 

2 year, the Corporation shall reserve from general sur- 

3 phis of the Corporation an amount equal to 20 per- 

4 cent of any dividends paid by the Corporation during 

5 the preceding calendar year. Amounts reserved 

6 under this paragraph shall be used under the afford- 

7 able housing program under this section. 

8 "(2) Prohibition on increase op fees.— 

9 The Corporation may not increase any fees or 

10 charges for services of the Corporation as a result 

11 of the requirement under paragraph (1). The Secre- 

12 tary of Housing and Urban Development shall re- 

13 view the fees and charges imposed by the Corpora- 

14 tion, as the Secretary determines necessary, to en- 

15 sure compliance with the requirements of this para- 

16 graph. If the Secretary determines that the Corpora- 

17 tion has increased fees or charges in violation of the 

18 first sentence of this paragraph, the Secretary may 

19 revise such fees and charges as the Secretary consid- 

20 era appropriate. 

21 "(c) Exemption for Inadequate Capital. — 

22 "(1) IN GENERAL. — If at any time the Director 

23 of the Office of Secondary Market Examination and 

24 Oversight of the Department of Housing and Urban 

25 Development classifies the Corporation as within en- 



^Google 



14ft 

40 

■• 1 forcement level II, III, or IV (as established under 

2 section 204 of the Government-Sponsored Housing 

3 Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 

4 1991), for the period during which the Corporation 

5 is so classified, the Corporation shall not be required 

6 to reserve amounts under subsection (b)(1) for use 

7 under the affordable housing program under this 

8 section. 

9 "(2) Termination of exemption. — Upon re- 

10 classification of the Corporation within enforcement 

11 level I (as established under section 204 of such 

12 Act), the Director of the Office of Secondary Market 

13 Examination and Oversight shall determine the per- 

14 eentage of dividends to be reserved by the Corpora- 

15 tion pursuant to subsection (b)(1) for use under the 

16 affordable housing program for the remainder of the 

17 calendar year during which such reclassification oc- 

18 curs. The percentage shall be reduced on a pro rata 

19 basis to take into account the portion of the year 

20 during which the Corporation was classified as with* 

21 in enforcement level II, III, or IV. 

22 "(d) Program Requirements.— The Board of Di 

23 rectors of the Corporation shall establish requirements to 

24 implement the affordable housing program under this sec- 

25 tion, which shall — 



xibyGooyle 



160 

41 

1 "(1) specify priorities for using amounts rc- 

2 served for use under the affordable housing pro- 

3 gram; 

4 "(2) ensure that such amounts are used only 

5 for specific housing projects selected for assistance 

6 under the program by the Board of Directors; 

7 "(3) provide that housing assisted with such 

8 amounts shall be rental housing for which, during 

9 the useful life of the housing — 

10' "(A) not less than 20 percent of the units 

11 of the housing are occupied, or available for oc- 

12 cupancy, only by families or individuals whose 

13 income does not exceed 50 percent of the medi- 

14 an income for. the area, as determined by the 

15 Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 

16 with adjustments- for smaller and larger fami- 

17 lies; or 

18 "(B) not less than 40 percent of the units 

19 of the housing are occupied, or available for oc- 

20 cupancy, only by families or individuals whose 

21 income does not exceed 60 percent of the medi- 

22 an income for the area, as determined by the 

23 Secretary with adjustments for smaller and 

24 larger families; 



^Google 



151 

42 

1 "(4) require the person acquiring, constructing, 

2 or rehabilitating a low-income housing project assist- 

3 ed under the program to certify that the housing will 

4 comply with paragraph (3) and any other require- 

5 ments pursuant to this section; 

6 "(5) coordinate activities under this section 

7 with other Federal and federally-subsidized afford- 

8 able housing activities to the maximum extent possi- 

9 He; and 

10 "(6) provide for national geographic diversity 

1 1 among housing projects assisted under this section. 

12 "(e) Monitoring. — The Secretary of Housing and 

13 Urban Development shall monitor housing projects assist- 

14 ed under the affordable housing program under this sec- 

15 tion to ensure continued compliance with paragraph (3) 

16 and any other requirements pursuant to this section. 

17 "(f) Report. — The Corporation shall submit to the 

18 Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, not less 

19 than annually, a report describing the activities of the Cor- 

20 poration in carrying out the affordable housing program 

21 under this section.". 

22 (j) Effective Date. — Except as provided in subsec- 

23 tions (b)(1) and (d), the amendments made by this section 

24 shall take effect on January 1, 1992. 



** * d .-.. -.1,,-GoogIe 



152 
48 

1 SEC. 138. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 6, UNTIKD STATES CODE. 

2 (a) Director at Level n of E x ec u t ive Sched- 

3 ule.— Section 5313 of title 5, United States Code, is 

4 amended by inserting at the end the following new item: 

5 "Director of the Office of Secondary Market 

6 Examination and Oversight, Department of Housing 

7 and Urban Development.". 

8 (b) Deputy Director at Level TH of Executive 

9 Schedule.— Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, 

10 is amended by inserting at the end the following new item: 

11 "Deputy Director of the Office of Secondary 

12 Market Examination and Oversight, Department of 

13 Housing and Urban Development.". 

14 Subtitle C — Implementation 

15 SEC 131. IMPLEMENTATION. 

16 (a) In General.— The Secretary of Housing and 

17 Urban Development and the Director of the Office of Sec- 

18 ondary Market Examination and Oversight of the Depart- 

19 merit of Housing and Urban Development, aa appropriate, 

20 shall issue final regulations providing for the implementa- 

21 tion of the provisions of this title and the amendments 

22 made by this title not later than the expiration of the 18- 

23 month period beginning on the date of the enactment of 

24 this Act. Such regulations shall clearly delineate the re- 

25 sponsibilities and authority of the Secretary and the Di- 

26 rector pursuant to the provision of and amendments made 



jOOgle 



168 

44 

1 by this title. Any regulations issued by the Director pursu- 

2 ant to this section sliall be issued under the authority pro- 

3 vided in section 107. 

4 (b) Nones AND COMMENT. — The regulations under 

5 this section shall be issued after notice and opportunity 

6 for public comment pursuant to the provisions of section 

7 553 of title 5, United States Code (notwithstanding snb- 

8 sections (b)(B) and (d)(3) of such section). 

9 TITLE n— REQUIRED CAPITAL 
io LEVELS FOR FNMA AND 
n FHLMC AND SPECIAL EN- 

12 FORCEMENT POWERS 

13 SEC. 80L RISK-BASED CAPITAL LEVELB. 

14 (a) Establishment. — Not later than the expiration 

15 of the 1-year period beginning on the date of the enact- 

16 ment of this Act, the Director shall, by regulation, estab- 

17 lish risk-based capital levels under this section for each 

18 enterprise. The risk-based capital level for each enterprise 

19 shall be an amount of regulatory capital that is equal to 

20 the sum of the following amounts: 

21 (1) Credit risk. — The amount of regulatory 

22 capital that the Director determines is sufficient for 

23 the enterprise to maintain positive capital for an 8- 

24 year period during which losses occur on a national 

25 scale, for all mortgages owned or guaranteed by the 



ibyGoogle 



154 

45 ' 

1 enterprise, at the rate of default and severity equal 

2 to the rate and severity occurring in the standard 

3 region during the worst mortgage loss experience. 

4 (2) Interest rate bisk. — The amount of reg- 

5 ulatory capital that the Director determines is suffi- 

6 eient for the enterprise to maintain positive capita] 

7 for an 8-year period during which either of the fol- 

8 lowing circumstances occur: 

9 (A) Interest rates on Treasury obligations 

10 having a maturity of 10 years increase over the 

11 first 12 months of such 8-year period by the 

12 lesser of (i) 50 percent (with respect to the av- 

13 erage interest rates on such obligations during 

14 the 12-month period preceding the 8-year peri- 

15 od), or (ii) 500 basis points, and remain at such 

16 level for the remainder of the period. 

17 (B) Interest rates on such Treasury obliga- 

18 tions decrease over the first 12 months of such 

19 8-year period by the lesser of (i) 50 percent 

20 (with respect to the average interest rates on 

21 such obligations during the 12-month period 

22 preceding the 8-year period), or (ii) 500 basis 

23 points, and remain at such level for the remain- 

24 der of the period. 



^Google 



155 

46 

1 (3) MaNAQSMENT AND OPERATIONS BISK. — To 

2 provide for management and operations risk, 20 per- 

3 cent of the amount of regulatory capital determined 

4 for the enterprise under paragraphs (1) and (2), ex* 

5 eept that the Director may increase or decrease such 

6 percentage for each enterprise as the Director deter- 

7 mines appropriate to reflect actual management and 

8 operations risk. 

9 (4) NBW PROGRAM risk.— If the Director de- 

10 : termines that the risk to capital of the enterprise 

11 posed by any new program of the enterprise (ap- 

12 proved by the Secretary under section 309(h)(3) of 

13 the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter 

14 Act or section 303(b)(6) of the Federal Home Loan 

15 Mortgage Corporation Act, as appropriate) is not 

16 adequately provided for under paragraphs (1), (2), 

17 and (3), the amount of regulatory capital that the 

18 Director establishes as appropriate to provide for 

19 such additional risk posed by the new program. 

20 (b) Considerations. — In establishing risk-based 

21 capital levels under tins section and compliance with such 

22 levels under this title, the Director shall take into account 

23 appropriate distinctions based on various types of mort- 

24 gage products and seasoning of mortgages. 



-^Google 



166 

47 

1 (c) Regions. — For purposes of this section, the Di- 

2 rector shall, by regulation, establish regions. Each region 

3 shall— 

4 (1) consist of a State or 2 or more contiguous 

5 States; and 

6 (2) have a population of not less than 5 percent 

7 of the population of the United States, based on the 

8 most recent decennial census. 

9 (d) Definitions. — For purposes of this section: 

10 (1) Seasoning. — The term "seasoning" means 

11 the change over time in the ratio of the unpaid prin- 

12 eipal balance of a mortgage to the value of the prop- 

13 erty by which such mortgage loan is secured, deter- 

14 mined on an annual basis by region, in accordance 

15 with the Constant Quality Home Price Index pub- 

16 lished by the Secretary of Commerce (or any sucoes- 

17 sor index of similar quality, authority, and public 

18 availability that is regularly used by the Federal 

19 Government). 

20 (2) Standard region. — The term "standard 

21 region" means the region having, for any period of 

22 not less than 3 years for which reliable data exist, 

23 the highest average default rate and severity of 

24 losses for conventional mortgages (A) having a fixed 

25 rate of interest, (B) purchased by the enterprises, 



ibyGoogle 



15? 

48 

1 (C) having terms of 30 yean, and (D) secured by 

2 residences located in the region. 

3 (3) Type op mortgage product.— The term 

4 "type of mortgage product" means a classification of 

5 one or more mortgage products, as established by 

6 the Director, which have similar characteristics from 

7 each set of characteristics under the following sub- 

8 paragraphs: 

9 (A) The property securing the mortgage 

10 is— 

11 (i) a single-family residential property; 

12 or 

13 (ii) a multifamily residential property. 

14 (B) The interest rate on the mortgage is — 

15 (i) fixed; or 

16 (ii) adjustable. 

17 (C) The priority of the hen securing the 

18 mortgage is— 

19 (i) first; or 

20 (ii) second or other. 

21 (D) The term of the mortgage is — 

22 (i) 1 to 15 years; 

23 (ii) 16 to 30 years; or 

24 (iii) more than 30 years. 

25 (E) The owner of the property is — 



ibyGoogle 



168 

49 

1 (i) an owner-occupant; or 

2 (ii) an investor. 

3 (F) The unpaid principal balance of the 

4 mortgage — 

5 (i) will amortize completely over the 

6 term of the mortgage and will not increase 

7 significantly at any time during the term 
S of the mortgage; 

9 (u) will not amortize completely over 

10 the term of the mortgage and will not in- 

11 crease significantly at any time during the 

12 term of the mortgage; or 

13 (iii) may increase significantly at 

14 some time during the term of the mort- 

15 gage. 

16 (4) Worst mortgage: loss experience. — 

17 The term "worst mortgage loss experience" means, 

18 as determined by the Director, the 3-year period 

19 during which the standard region had the highest 

20 average default rate and severity of losses described 

21 in paragraph (2). 

22 SEC. SOS. MINIMUM CAPITAL LEVELS. 

23 (a) Establishment.— Pop purposes of this title, the 

24 minimum capital level for each enterprise shall be — 



^Google 



160 

50 

1 (1) an amount of marked-to-market equity of 

2 the enterprise equal to— 

3 (A) 2.0 percent of the on-balance sheet as- 

4 sets of the enterprise; and 

5 (B) 1.0 percent of the unpaid principal 

6 balance of off-balance sheet obligations of the 

7 enterprise with respect to residential mortgages; 

8 and 

9 (2) an amount of core capital equal to — 

10 (A) 1.5 percent of the on-balance sheet as- 

11 sets of die enterprise; and 

12 (B) 0.5 percent of the unpaid principal 

13 balance of off-balance sheet obligations of the 

14 enterprise with respect to residential mortgages. 

15 (b) Mabked-tocHarkbt Equity.— For purposes of 

16 this title, the term "marked-to-market equity of the enter- 

17 prise" means the difference between — 

18 (1) the current market value of on- and off-bal- 

19 ance sheet assets of the enterprise; and 

20 (2) the current market value of on- and off-bal- 

21 ance sheet obligations of the enterprise. 

22 The Director shall provide, by regulation, for determina- 

23 tiona of market value to be made in accordance with prin- 

24 ciples of marked-to-market accounting, including vam- 



ibyGoogle 



160 

51 

1 ation techniques, adopted or recommended from time to 

2 time by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. 

3 (a) Use op Generally Accepted Accounting 

4 Principles. — For the purposes of this section, on-bal- 

5 ance sheet assets and off-balance sheet obligations shall 

6 be determined according to generally accepted accounting 

7 principles as adopted or recommended from time to time 

8 by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. 

9 SEC 303. CRITICAL CAPITAL LEVELS. 

10 (a) Establishment. — For purposes of this title, the 

1 1 critical capital level for each enterprise shall be — 

12 (1) an amount of marked-to-market equity of 

13 the enterprise equal to 50 percent of the amount de- 

14 termined under section 202(a)(1); and 

15 - (2) an amount of core capital equal to 50 per- 

16 cent of the amount determined under section 

17 202(a)(2). 

18 SEC. 204. enforcement levels. 

19 (a) In General.— The Director shall classify the en- 

20 terprises, for purposes of this title, according to the follow- 

21 iiig enforcement levels: 

22 (1) Level i.— An enterprise shall be classified 

23 as within level I if the enterprise — 

24 (A) maintains an amount of regulatory 

25 capital that is equal to or exceeds the risk- 



id byGoogle 



181 

52 

1 based capital level established for the enterprise 

2 under section 201; and 

3 (B) equals or exceeds the minimum capital 

4 level for the enterprise established under section 

5 202. 

6 (2) LEVEL n. — An enterprise shall be classified 

7 as within level II if— 

8 (A) the enterprise — 

9 (i) maintains an amount of regulatory 

10 capita) that is less than the risk-based cap- 

1 1 ital level established for the enterprise; and 

12 (ii) equals or exceeds the minimum 

13 capital level for the enterprise; or 

14 (B) the enterprise is otherwise classified 

15 within level II under subsection (b) of this sec- 

16 tion. 

17 (3) Level ih. — An enterprise shall be classified 

18 as within level m if— 

19 (A) the enterprise — 

20 (i) does not equal or exceed the mini- 

21 mum capital level for the enterprise; and 

22 (ii) equals or exceeds the critical cap- 

23 ital level for the enterprise established 

24 under section 203; or 



^Google 



162 

53 

1 (B) the enterprise is otherwise classified 

2 within level HI under subsection (b) of this sec- 

3 tion. 

4 (4) Level tv. — An enterprise shall be classified 

5 as within level IV if the enterprise — 

6 (A) does not equal or exceed the critical 

7 capital level for the enterprise; or 

8 (B) is otherwise classified within level IV 

9 under subsection (b) of this section. 

10 (b) Discretionary Classification. — If at any 

11 time the Director determines in writing that, an enterprise 
12' is taking any action not approved by the Director that 

13 could result in a rapid depletion of capital or that the 

14 value of the property secured by mortgages held or set 

15 aside by the enterprise has decreased significantly, the Di- 

16 rector may classify the enterprise — 

17 (1) as within level II or HI, as the Director 

18 considers appropriate, if the enterprise is otherwise 

19 within level X; 

20 (2) as within level HI or IV, as the Director 

21 considers appropriate, if the enterprise is otherwise 

22 within level H; or 

23 (3) as within level IV'if the enterprise is other- 

24 wise within level HI. 



^Google 



188 

54 

1 (e) Quarterly Determination.— The Director 

2 shall determine the classification of the enterprises for 

3 purposes of this title on not less than a quarterly basil 

4 (and as appropriate under subsection (b)). The first such 

5 determination shall be made for the quarter ending March 

6 31,1992. 

7 SEC. 305. MANDATORY SUPERVISORY ACTIONS APPLICA- 

8 BUC TO ENTERPRISES WITHIN LEVEL II. 

9 (a) NOTICE. — Upon determining that an enterprise 

10 is within level II, the Director shall provide written notice 

11 to the Congress and to the enterprise — 

12 (1) that the enterprise is within level II; 

13 (2) that the enterprise is subject to the provi- 

14 sions of this section; and 

15 (3) stating the reasons for the classification of 

16 the enterprise within level II. 

17 (b) Capital Restoration Plan.— An enterprise 

18 within level II shall, within the time period provided in 

19 section 209(b) and in consultation with the Director, sub- 

20 mit to the Director a capital restoration plan that complies 

21 with section 209 and, after approval, cany out the plan. 

22 (c) Restriction on Dividends.— An enterprise 

23 within level II may not make any payment of dividends 

24 that would result in the enterprise being reclassified as 

25 within level m or IV. 



RM»m 

D iizedbyGOOgle 



164 

55 

1 (d) Reclassification From Level II to Level 

2 III. — The Director shall immediately reclassify an enter- 

3 prise within level II as within level in (and the enterprise 

4 shall be subject to the provisions of section 206}, if — 

5 (A) the enterprise dues not submit the capital 

6 restoration plan required under subsection (b) within 

7 the applicable period; or 

8 (B) the Director determines that the enterprise 

9 has failed to make, in good faith, all reasonable ef- 

10 forts necessary to comply with the capital plan and 

11 fulfill the schedule tor the plan approved by the Di- 

12 rector. 

13 (e) Effective Date. — This section shall take effect 

14 upon the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the 

15 date of the enactment of this Act. 

16 SEC. aOS. SUPERVISORY ACTIONS APPLICABLE TO ENTER- 

17 PRISES WITHIN LEVEL III. 

18 (a) Mandatory Supervisory Actions.— 

19 (1) Capital restoration plan.— An enter- 

20 prise within level III shall, within the time period 

21 provided in section 209(b), submit to the Director a 

22 capital restoration plan that complies with section 

23 209 and, after approval, carry out the plan. 

24 (2) Restrictions on dividends, — 



ibyGoogle 



166 

56 

1 -<A) Prior approval.— An enterprise 

2 within level in may not make any payment of 

3 dividends that would result in the enterprise 
■ 4 being reclassified as within level IV. An enter- 

5 prise within level III may make any other pay- 

6 ment of dividends only if the Director approves 

7 the payment before the payment. 

8 (B) Standard for approval. — The Di- 

9 rector may approve a payment of dividends by 

10 an enterprise within level III only if the Direc- 

11 tor determines that the payment (i) will en- 

12 hance the ability of the enterprise to meet the 

13 risk-based capital level and the minimum cap- 

14 ital level for the enterprise promptly or (ii) is 

15 otherwise in the public interest. 

16 (3) Approval op activities. — An enterprise 

17 within level HI may undertake an activity subject to 

18 the approval of the Secretary under the Federal Na- 

19 tional Mortgage Association Charter Act or the Fed- 

20 eral Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act only 

21 with the additional approval of the Director. 

22 (4) Reclassification from level m to 

23 level rv. — The Director shall immediately reclassi- 

24 fy an enterprise within level HI as within level IV 



^Google 



166 

57 

1 (and the enterprise shall be subjeet to the provisions 

2 of section 207), if— 

3 (A) the enterprise does not submit the cap- 

4 ital restoration plan required under paragraph 

5 (1) within the applicable period; or 

6 (B) the Director determines that the enter- 

7 prise has failed to make, in good faith, all rea- 

8 sonable efforts necessary to comply with the 

9 capital plan and fulfill the schedule for the plan 

10 approved by the Director. 

1 1 (b) Discretionary Supervisory Actions. — In ad- 

12 dition to any other actions taken by the Director (inctud- 

13 ing actions under subsection (a)), the Director may, at 

14 any time, take any of the following actions with respect 

15 to an enterprise within level III: 

16 (1) Limitation on increase in obliga- 

17 tions. — Limit any increase in, or order the reduc- 

18 tion of, any obligations of the enterprise, including 

19 off-balance sheet obligations. 

20 (2) Limitation on growth. — Limit or prohib- 

21 it the growth of the assets of the enterprise or re- 

22 quire contraction of the assets of the enterprise. 

23 (3) Prohibition on dividends.— Prohibit the 

24 enterprise from making any payment of dividends. 



^iizad byGoogle 



1 (4) Issuance of new capital.— Require the 

2 enterprise to issue new capital in any form and in 

3 any amount sufficient to provide for the reclassifica- 

4 tion of the enterprise as within level II. 

5 (5) Restriction of activities. — Require the 

6 enterprise to terminate, reduce, or modify any actrri- 

7 ty that the Director determines creates excessive 

8 risk to the enterprise. 

9 (6) Conservatorship. — Appoint a conservator 

10 for the enterprise pursuant to section 208. 

11 (c) Effective Date. — This section shall take effect 

12 upon the expiration 'of the '1-year period beginning on the 

13 date of the enactment of this Act. 

14 sec an. mandatory appointment of conservator 

15 FOR ENTERPRISES WITHIN IXVEL TV. 

16 (a) Notice. — Upon determining; that an enterprise 

17 is within level IV, the Director shall provide written notice 

18 to the Congress and to the enterprise — 

19 (1) that the enterprise is within level IV; 

20 (2) that a conservator shall be appointed for 

21 the enterprise pursuant to this section. 

22 (b) Appointment. — If the Director determines that 

23 an enterprise is within level IV, the Director shall, not 

24 later than 30 days after providing notice under subsection 

25 (a), appoint a conservator for the enterprise. A conserva- 



Kit* Google 



1*3 

59 

1 tor appointed pursuant to this section shall have the au- 

2 thority, in the discretion of the conservator, to take any 

3 actions under sections 205 and 206 not inconsistent with 

4 the authority of the conservator and to take any other ac- 

5 tions authorized under section 208. 

6 (e) Approval op Activities. — The conservator of 

7 any enterprise within level IV may undertake an activity 

8 subject to the approval of the Secretary under the Federal 

9 National Mortgage Association Charter Act or the Federal 

10 Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act only with the addi- 

1 1 tional approval of the Director. 

12 (d) Effective Date.— This section shall take effect 

13 on January 1, 1992. 

14 SEC. 206. CONSERVATORSHIP. 

15 (a) Appointment. — 

16 (1) Discretionary authority.— The Director 

17 may, after providing notice under paragraph (2), ap- 

18 point a conservator for an enterprise upon a 

19 determination — 

20 (A) that the enterprise is not likely to pay 

21 its obligations in the normal coarse of business; 

22 (B)tha^- 

23 (i) the enterprise has incurred or is 

24 likely to incur losses that will deplete all or 

25 substantially all of its core capital; and 



^Google 



1 (ii) there is no reasonable likelihood 

2 that the enterprise will replenish its core 

3 capital without Federal assistance; 

4 (C) that the enterprise has concealed 

5 books, papers, records, or assets of the cnter- 

6 prise, or refused to submit books, papers, 

7 records, or information regarding the affairs of 

8 the enterprise for inspection to the Director 

9 upon request; or 

10 (D) that the enterprise is classified within 

11 Level m. 

12 (2) Notice. — Upon making a determination 

13 under paragraph (1) to appoint a conservator under 

14 this section for an enterprise, the Director shall pro- 

15 vide written notice to the Congress and to the 

16 enterprise — 

17 (A) that a conservator will be appointed 

18 for the enterprise under this section; and 

19 (B) stating the reasons under paragraph 

20 (1) for the appointment of the conservator. 

21 (b) Judicial Review.— 

22 (1) In general.— 

23 (A) Timing and jurisdiction.— An en- 

24 terprise for which a conservator is appointed 

25 (pursuant to this section or section 207) may 



ibyGoogle 



170 

61 

1 bring an action in the United States district 

2 court for the judicial district in which the home 

3 office of such enterprise is located or in the 

4 United States District Court for the District of 

5 Columbia, for an order requiring the Director 

6 to terminate the appointment of the conserva- 

7 tor. Such an action may be commenced only be- 

8 fore the expiration of the 20-day period begin- 

9 ning upon the appointment of the conservator. 

10 (B) Standard.— A decision of the Direc- 

11 tor to appoint a conservator may be set aside 

12 under this paragraph only if the court finds 

13 that the decision was arbitrary, capricious, an 

14 abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accord- 

15 ance with applicable laws. 

16 (2) Stay.— 

17 (A) IN general. — A conservator appoint- 

18 ed pursuant to this section or section 207 may 

19 request that any judicial action or proceeding to 

20 which the conservator or the enterprise is or 

21 may become a party be stayed for a period not 

22 exceeding 45 days and commencing upon the 

23 appointment of the conservator. Upon petition, 

24 the court shall grant such stay as to all parties. 



^iizad byGoogle 



1 (B) DlKKCTOR OR FEDERAL AGENCY AS 

2 conservator. — In any ease in which the con- 

3 servator appointed for an enterprise is the Di- 

4 rector, a Federal agency, or an officer or em- 

5 ployec of the Federal Government, the conser- 

6 vator may make a request for a stay under sab- 

7 paragraph (A) only with the prior consent of 

8 the Attorney General and subject to the direc- 

9 tion and control of the Attorney General. 

10 (3) Actions and orders.— 

11 (A) Limitation on remedies. — Except 

12 as otherwise provided in this subsection, no 

13 court may take any action regarding the remov- 

14 al of a conservator or otherwise restrain or af- 

15 feet the exercise of powers or functions of a 

16 conservator. 

17 (B) Enforcement op orders.— The Di- 

18 rector, with the prior consent of the Attorney 

19 General and subject to the direction and control 

20 of the Attorney General, may apply to a court 

21 which shall have the jurisdiction to enforce an 

22 order of the Director relating to— 

23 (i) the conservatorship and the enter- 

24 prise in conservatorship; or 



ibyGoogle 



172 

63 

1 (ii) restraining or affecting the exer- 

2 cise of authority or functions of a conser- 

3 vator. 

4 (c) Appointment by Consent. — Notwithstanding 

5 subsection (a), the Director may appoint a conservator for 

6 an enterprise if the enterprise, by an affirmative vote of 

7 a majority of its board of directors or by an affirmative 

8 vote of a majority of its shareholders, consents to such 

9 appointment. 

10 (d) Exclusive Appointment Authority. — The 

1 1 Director shall have exclusive authority to appoint a conser- 

12 vator for an enterprise. 

13 (e) Replacement op Conservator.— The Director 

14 may, without notice or hearing, replace a conservator with 

15 another conservator. Such replacement shall not affect the 

16 right of the enterprise under subsection (b) to obtain judi- 

17 cial review of the decision of the Director to appoint a 

18 conservator. 

19 (f) Examinations. — The Director may examine and 

20 supervise any enterprise in conservatorship during the pe- 

21 riod in which the enterprise continues to operate as a 

22 going concern. 

23 (g) Termination. — 

24 (1) Discretionary.— At any time the Director 

25 determines that termination of a conservatorship 



nmooaf 

D iizedbyGOOgle 



178 

64 

1 pursuant to an appointment under subsection (a) is 

2 in the public interest and may safely be accom- 

3 plished, the Director may terminate the 

4 conservatorship and permit the enterprise to resume 

5 the transaction of its business subject to such terms, 

6 conditions, and limitations as the Director may pre- 

7 scribe. 

8 (2) Mandatory.— The Director shall terminate 

9 a conservatorship pursuant to section 207 upon a 

10 determination by the Director that the enterprise 

11 equals or exceeds the minimum capital level for the 

12 enterprise established under section 201. The Direc- 

13 tor may not impose any terms, conditions, or Iimita- 

14 tions on the transaction of business of an enterprise 

15 whose conservatorship is terminated under this para- 

16 graph. 

17 (h) Powers and Duties.— 

18 (1) DntECTOR. — When acting as a conservator, 

19 the Director may exercise any authority of the Di- 

20 rector under this Act, and (when not inconsistent 

21 therewith) shall have all other rights, authority, and 

22 privileges possessed by conservators under this sec- 

23 tion and any other applicable laws. 

24 (2) General powers.— A conservator shall 

25 have all the powers of the shareholders, directors, 



^iizad byGoogle 



9 

10 
11 
12 
13 

14 
IS 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 



and officers of the enterprise under conservatorship 
and may operate the enterprise in the name of the 
enterprise, unless the Director provides otherwise. 

(3) Limitations by director. — A conservator 
shall be subject to any rules, regulations, and orders 
issued from time to time by the Director and, except 
as otherwise specifically provided in such rules, regu- 
lations, or orders or in subsection <i), shall have the 
same rights and privileges and be subject to the 
same duties, restrictions, penalties, conditions, and 
limitations applicable to directors, officers, or em- 
ployees of the enterprise. 

(4) Payment op creditors. — The Director 
may require a conservator to set aside and make 
available for payment to creditors any amounts that 
the Director determines may safely be used for such 
purpose. All creditors who are similarly situated 
shall be treated in a similar manner. 

(5) Compensation of conservator and i 
ployees. — A conservator I >ther than the ] 
and professional emplo* -tber than Federal t 
ployees) appointed tr ** or assist the com 
vator may be cor 'Ibr activities conr^ 
as conservator, 
in amounts gi 



176 

66 

1 employees of the Federal Government for similar 

2 services, except that the Director may provide for 

3 compensation at higher rates (but not in excess of 

4 rates prevailing in the private sector), if the Director 

5 determines that compensation at higher rates is nec- 

6 essary in order to recruit and retain competent per- 

7 sonnel. 

8 (6) Expenses. — All expenses of a 

9 conservatorship pursuant to this section (including 

10 compensation under paragraph (5)) shall be paid by 

11 the enterprise and shall be a secured by a lien on 

12 the enterprise, which shall have priority over any 

13 other hen. 

14 (i) Liability Protections. — 

15 (1) Federal agencies and employees.— In 

16 any case in which the conservator is the Director, a 

17 Federal agency, or an officer or employee of the 

18 Federal Government, the provisions of chapters 161 

19 and 171 of title 28, United States Code, shall apply 

20 with respect to the liability of the conservator for 

21 acts or omissions performed pursuant to and in the 

22 course of the duties and responsibilities of the 

23 conservatorship. 

24 (2) Other conservators.— In any case where 

25 the conservator is not a conservator described in 



ibyGoogle 



178 

67 

1 paragraph (1), the conservator shall not be liable for 

2 damages in tort or otherwise for acts or omissions 

3 performed pursuant to and in the coarse of the du- 

4 ties and responsibilities of the conservatorship, un- 

5 less such acts or omissions constitute gross ncgh- 

6 gence, including any similar conduct or any form of 

7 intentional tortious conduct. 

8 (3) Indemnification. — The Director, with the 

9 approval of the Attorney' General, may indemnify the 

10 conservator on such terms as the Director considers 

11 appropriate. 

12 (j) AuTHOBITY OF OFFICERS. — This section may not 

13 be construed to impair in any manner any authority of 

14 the President, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Director, 

15 or the Attorney General. 

16 SEC. 300. CAPITAL RESTORATION PLANS. 

17 (a) Contents. — Each capital restoration plan sub* 

18 mittcd under this title shall set forth a feasible plan for 

19 the enterprise to promptly equal or exceed the pini im um 

20 capital level for the enterprise and for promptly restoring 

21 the level of regulatory capital of the enterprise subject to 

22 the plan to not less than the risk-based capital level for 

23 the enterprise. Each capital restoration plan shall — 

24 {1) specify the level of capital the enterprise will 

25 achieve and maintain; 



^iizad byGoogle 



1 (2) describe the actions that the enterprise frill 

2 take to equal or exceed the nmrinmiB capital level 

3 for the enterprise and to restore the regulatory cap- 

4 ital of the enterprise to not less than the risk-based 

5 capital level for the enterprise; 

6 (3) establish a schedule for promptly completing 

7 the capital restoration plan; 

8 (4) specify the types and levels of activities in 

9 which the enterprise will engage during the term of 

10 the capital restoration plan; and 

11 (5) describe the actions that the enterprise will 

12 take to comply with any mandatory and discretion- 

13 ary requirements imposed under this title. 

14 (b) Deadlines fob Submission. — The Director 

15 shall, by regulation, establish a deadline for submission 

16 of a capital restoration plan, which may not be more than 

17 30 days after the enterprise is notified that a plan is re- 

18 quired. The regulations shall provide that the Director 

19 may extend the deadline to the extent that the Director 

20 determines necessary. Any extension of the deadline shall 

21 be in writing and for a time certain. 

22 (c) Approval. — The Director shall review each cap- 

23 ital restoration plan submitted under this section and, not 

24 later than 3G days after submission of the plan, approve 

25 or disapprove the plan. The Director may extend the pari- 



ty Google 



1 od for approval or disapproval for any plan for a single 

2 additional 30-day period if the Director determines neces- 

3 sary. The Director shall notify any enterprise submitting 

4 a plan in writing of the approval or disapproval of the 

5 plan and of any extension of the period for approval or 

6 disapproval. The Director shall provide by regulation for 

7 resubmission and review of any plans disapproved. 

8 SEC. 210. JUDICIAL REVIEW OF" DIRECTOR ACTION. 

9 (a) Jurisdiction. — 

10 (1) Filing of petition. — A person aggrieved 

11 by an action of the Director under this title (other 

12 than action under section 207) may obtain review of 

13 the action by filing, within 10 days after receiving 

14 notice of the Director's action, a written petition re- 

15 questing that the action of the Director be modified, 

16 terminated, or set aside. 

17 (2) Place for filing.-— A petition filed pursu- 

18 ant to this subsection shall be filed in the United 

19 States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia 

20 Circuit or the United States Court of Appeals for 

21 the circuit in which the concerned enterprise main- 

22 tains its principal office. 

23 (3) Definitions.— For purposes of this 

24 subsection— 



^Google 



179 

70 

1 (A) the term "concerned enterprise" 

2 means the enterprise whose classification within 

3 a particular enforcement level under section 

4 204 is the basis for the Director's action of 

5 which the person aggrieved complains; and 

6 (B) the term "person aggrieved by an-ac- 

7 tion of the Director" means, with respect to an 

8 enterprise within level I, II, or HI, the enter- 

9 prise or company that is the subject of a man- 

10 datory or discretionary supervisory action taken 

11 under this title. 

12 (b) Scope of Review. — An action taken by the Di- 

13 rector under this section may be modified, terminated, or 

14 set aside only if the court finds, on the record on which 

15 the Director acted, that the action of the Director was 

16 arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise 

17 not in accordance with applicable laws. 

18 (c) Withdrawal of Jurisdiction. — Except as pro- 

19 vided in this section, no court shall have jurisdiction to 

20 affect, by injunction or otherwise, the issuance or effec- 

21 tiveness of any action of the Director under this section 

22 or to review, modify, suspend, terminate, or set aside such 

23 action. 

24 SEC. 211. EXAMINATION!. 

25 (a) Timing.— 



ibyGoogle 



2 annually conduct an examination unuc, __ 

3 of each enterprise to determine the condition of the 
.4 enterprise for the purpose of ensuring its financial 

5 safety and soundness. 

6 (2) Other examinations.— Whenever the Di- 

7 rector determines that an examination is necessary 

8 to determine the condition of an enterprise for the 

9 purpose of ensuring its financial safety and sound- 

10 ness the Director may conduct an examination under 

1 1 this section. 

12 (b) EXAMINERS. — Examinations under this section 

13 shall be conducted only by the Director and officers and 

14 employees of the Office of Secondary Market Examination 

15 and Oversight. The Director may not base any decision 

16 or action under this title primarily upon information pro- 

17 vided by technical experts or other entities that are not 

18 officers or employees of the Office. 

19 (c) Technical Experts. — The Director may obtain 

20 the services of any technical experts the Director considers 

21 necessary and appropriate to provide temporary technical 

22 assistance relating to examinations to the Director and of- 

23 ficers and employees of the Office of Secondary Market 

24 Examination and Oversight. The Director shall describe, 



^Google 



181 

72 

1 in the public record of each examination, the nature and 

2 extent of any such temporary technical assistance. 

3 (d) Oaths, Evidence, Subpoena Powers. — In 

4 connection with examinations under this section, the Di- 

5 rector may — 

6 (1) administer oaths and affirmations; 

7 (2) take and preserve testimony under oath; 

8 and 

9 (3) issue subpoenas requiring the attendance 

10 and testimony of witnesses and the production of 

1 1 evidence. 

12 The attendance of witnesses and the production of evi- 

13 dence may be required from any place within any State 

14 at any designated place where a hearing relating to an 

15 examination is conducted. 

16 (e) Second Examination by GAO. — Upon a deter- 

17 mination by the Director that an examination of an enter- 

18 prise under this subsection is necessary, the Comptroller 

19 General shall conduct an examination of the enterprise 

20 solely to provide an independent determination regarding 

21 the safety and soundness of the enterprise. The examina- 

22 tion shall be conducted at a time and in a manner that 

23 results in minimal disruption to the normal business ac- 

24 tivities of the enterprise. The Comptroller General may ob- 

25 tain the services^ of technical experts in the same manner 



ibyGoogle 



182 

73 

1 as the Director may obtain such services under subsection 

2 (c), except that any entity that assists the Director in ex- 

3 amining an enterprise may not concurrently assist the 

4 Comptroller General to examine the enterprise under this 

5 subsection. 

6 SEC> 212. CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES FOR FAILURE TO RE- 

7 PORT. 

8 (a) Unintentional Violations.— 

9 (1) Violations. — The Director may impose a 

10 civil money penalty, in accordance with the provi- 

1 1 sions of this section, on any enterprise that — 

12 (A) maintains reasonable procedures de- 

13 signed to prevent errors and unintentionally 

14 submits to the Director (i) any false or mislead- 

15 ing report under section 309(k) of the Federal 

16 National Mortgage Association Charter Act or 

17 section 307(c) of the Federal Home Loan Mort- 

18 gage Corporation Act, or (ii) any false or mis- 

19 leading information; or 

20 (B) submits any report referred to in sub- 

21 paragraph (A) minimally late. 

22 (2) Amount.— The amount of a penalty under 

23 this paragraph, as determined by the Director, may 

24 not exceed $500 per day for each day during which 



xibyGooyle 



74 

1 such failure continues or such false or misleading in- 

2 formation is not corrected. 

3 (b) Failure to Submit Report. — The Director 

4 may impose a civil money penalty, in accordance with the 

5 provisions of this section, on any enterprise that fails to 

6 make any report required under section 309(k) of the Fed- 

7 era! National Mortgage Association Charter Act or section 

8 307(c) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 

9 Act within the period of time established by the Director 

10 for submission of the report (other than failure described 

11 in subsection (a)(1)(B)). The amount of the penalty, as 

12 determined by the Director, may not exceed $10,000 per 

13 day for each day during which such failure continues. 

14 (c) Intentional Violations. — The Director may. 

15 impose a civil money penalty, in accordance with the provi- 

16 sions of this section, on any enterprise that submits to 

17 the Director any false or misleading report or information 

18 with actual knowledge of inaccuracy, deliberate ignorance 

19 of inaccuracy, or reckless disregard for accuracy. The 

20 amount of the penalty may not exceed $1,000,000 or 1 

21 percent of total assets of the enterprise, whichever is less, 

22 per day for each day during which such failure continues 

23 or such false or misleading information is not corrected, 

24 (d) Procedures. — 



!£ ibyGoogle 



184 

75 

1 (1) Establishment.— The Director shall es- 

2 tablish standards and procedures governing the im- 

3 position of civil money penalties tinder subsections 

4 (a), (b), and (c). The standards and procedures — 

5 (A) shall provide for the Director to make 

6 the determination to impose the penalty, 

7 (B) shall provide for the imposition of a 

8 penalty only after the enterprise has been given 

9 notice of, and opportunity for, a hearing on the 

10 record; and 

11 (C) may provide for review by the Director 

12 of any determination or order, or interlocutory 

13 ruling, arising from a hearing. 

14 (2) Final orders. — If the enterprise does not 

15 request a hearing within 15 days after receipt of a 

16 notice of opportunity for hearing, the imposition of 

17 a penalty shall constitute a final and unappealable 

18 determination. If the Director reviews the determi- 

19 nation or order, the Director may affirm, modify, or 

20 reverse the determination or order. If the Director 

21 does not review the determination or order within 90 

22 days after the issuance of the determination or 

23 order, the determination or order shall be final. 

24 (3) Factors in determining amount of 

25 penalty. — In determining the amount of a penalty 



^iizad byGoogle 



186 

76 

1 under subsection (a), (b), or (e), the Director shall 

2 give consideration to such factors as the gravity of 

3 the violation, any history of prior violations (includ- 

4 ing violations occurring before the date under sub- 

5 section (j)), the effect of the penally on the safety 

6 and soundness of the enterprise, any injury to the 

7 public, any benefits received, and deterrence of fu- 

8 ture violations, and any other factors the Director 

9 may determine by regulation. 

10 (4) Reviewability op imposition of penal- 

11 TY. — The determination or order of the Director im- 
12* posing a penally under subsection (a), (b), or (c) 

13 shall not be subject to review, except as provided in 

14 subsection (e). 

15 (e) Judicial Review op Determination.— 

16 (1) In general. — After exhausting all admin- 

17 istrative remedies established by the Director under 

18 subsection (d)(1), an enterprise against which the 

19 Director has imposed a civil money penalty under 

20 subsection (a), (b), or (c) may obtain review of the 

21 penalty and such ancillary issues as may be ad- 

22 dressed in the notice of the determination to impose 

23 a penalty under subsection (d)(1)(A) in the appro- 

24 priate court of appeals of the United States, by fil- 

25 ing in such court, within 20 days after the entry of 



Google 



186 

77 

1 such order or determination, a written petition pray- 

2 ing that the order or determination of the Director 

3 be modified or be set aside in whole or in part. 

4 (2) Objections not raised in hearing.— A 

5 court shall not consider any objection not raised in 

6 a hearing conducted pursuant to subsection (d)(1) 

7 unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary cir- 

8 cumstances causing the failure to raise the objection. 

9 If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the 

10 court that additional evidence, not presented at such 

11 hearing, is material and that there were reasonable 

12 grounds for the failure to present such evidence at 

13 the hearing, the court shall remand the matter to 

14 the Director for consideration of the additional evi- 

15 dence. 

16 (3) Scope op review.— The review of the deci- 

17 sions, findings, and determinations of the Director 

18 shall be conducted pursuant to section 706 of title 

19 5, United States Code. 

20 (4) Order to pay penalty. — Notwithstand- 

21 ing any other provision of law, the court shall have 

22 the authority in any such review to order payment 

23 of the penalty imposed by the Director. 

24 (f) Action to Collect Penalty.— If an enterprise 

25 fails to comply with a determination or order of tine Direc- 



^Google 



187 

78 

1 tor imposing a civil money penalty under subsection (a), 

2 (b), or (c), after the determination or order is no longer 

3 subject to review as provided by subsections (d)(1) and 

4 (e), the Director may request the Attorney General of the 
,5 United States to bring an action in an appropriate district 

6 court to obtain a monetary judgment against the enter- 

7 prise and such other relief as may be available. The mone- 

8 tary judgment may, in the discretion of the court, include 

9 any attorneys fees and other expenses incurred by the 

10 United States in connection with the action. In an action 

1 1 under this subsection, the validity and appropriateness of 

12 the determination or order of the Director imposing the 

13 penalty shall not be subject to review. 

14 (g) Settlement by Director,— The Director may 

15 compromise, modify, or remit any civil money penalty 

16 which may be, or has been, imposed under this section. 

17 (h) Availability of Other Remedies. — Any civil 

18 money penalty under this section shall be in addition to 

19 any other available civil remedy or criminal penalty and 

20 may be imposed whether or not the Director imposes other 

21 administrative sanctions. 

22 (i) Deposit OF Penalties.— The Secretary shall de- 

23 posit any civil money penalties collected under this section 

24 into the Secondary Market Examination and Oversight 

25 Fund established in section 105(b). 



ibyGoogle 



188 

79 

1 (j) Applicability.— This section shall apply only to 

2 violations under subsections (a), (b), and (c) occurring on 

3 or after January 1, 1992. 

4 TITLE III— CEASE AND DESIST 

5 ORDERS AGAINST FNMA 

6 ANDFHLMC 

7 SEC. 301. CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS. 

8 (a) Grounds for Issuance.— The Director may 

9 issue and serve upon an enterprise a notice of charges 

10 under this section if, in the determination of the Director, 

1 1 the enterprise — 

12 (1) is engaging or has engaged, or the Director 

13 has reasonable cause to believe that the enterprise is 

14 about to engage, in any activity that could result in 

15 a rapid depletion of the core capital of the enter- 

16 prise; or 

17 (2) is violating or has violated, or the Director 

18 has reasonable cause to believe that the enterprise is 

19 about to violate — 

20 (A) any law, rule, or regulation; 

21 (B) any condition imposed in writing by 

22 the Director in connection with the granting of 

23 any application or other request by the enter- 

24 prise; or 



^Google 



189 

80 

1 (C) any written agreement entered into by 

2 the enterprise with the Director. 

3 (b) Procedure. — 

4 (1) Notice op charges. — Each notice of 

5 charges shall contain a statement of the facts consti- 

6 tuting the alleged violation or violations or the activ- 

7 ity that could result in a rapid depletion of the cap- 

8 itat of the enterprise, and shall fix a time and place 

9 at which a hearing will be held to determine whether 

10 an order to cease and desist from such violation or 

1 1 activity should issue against the enterprise. 

12 (2) Date of hearing. — A hearing pursuant to 

13 a notice under paragraph (1) shall be fixed for a 

14 date not earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days 

15 after service of the notice unless an earlier or a later 

16 date is set by the Director at the request of the en- 

17 terprise served. 

18 (3) Failure to appear. — Unless the enter- 

19 prise served appears at the hearing through a duly 

20 authorized representative, the enterprise shall be 

21 deemed to have consented to the issuance of the 

22 cease-and-desist order. 

23 (4) Issuance of order. — In the event of such 

24 consent, or if, upon the record made at any such 

25 hearing, the Director finds that any violation or ac- 



joogle 



190 

81 

1 tivity that could result in a rapid depletion of the 

2 capital of the enterprise specified in the notice of 

3 charges has been established, the Director may issue 

4 and serve upon the enterprise an order requiring the 

5 enterprise to cease and desist from any such viola- 

6 tion or activity and to take affirmative action to cor- 

7 red the conditions resulting from any such violation 

8 or activity. 

9 (c) Affirmative Action to Correct Conditions 

10 Resulting From Violations or Activities, — The an- 

11 thority under this section and section 302 to issue any 

12 order which requires an enterprise to take affirmative ac- 

13 tion to correct or remedy any conditions resulting from 

14 any violation or activity with respect to which such order 

15 is issued includes the authority to require such 

16 enterprise — 

17 (1) to make restitution or provide reimburse- 

18 merit, indemnification, or guarantee against loss if 

19 the violation or activity involves a reckless disregard 

20 for the law or any applicable regulations or prior 

21 order of the Director; 

22 (2) to restrict the growth of the enterprise; 

23 (3) to dispose of any asset involved; 

24 (4) to rescind agreements or contracts; 



^iizad byGoogle 



1 (5) to employ qualified officer! or employees 

2 (who may be subject to approval by the Director at 

3 the direction of the Director); and 

4 (6) take such other action as the Director de- 

5 tannines appropriate. 

6 (d) Authority to Loot Activities. — The author- 

7 ity to issue an order under this section or section 302 in- 

8 chides the authority to place limitations on the activities 

9 or functions of the enterprise or any director or executive 

10 officer of the enterprise. 

11 (e) Effective Date. — A cease-and-desist order 

12 under this section shall become effective upon the expira- 

13 tion of the 30-day period beginning on the service of the 

14 order upon the enterprise concerned (except in the case 

15 of a cease-and-desist order issued upon consent, which 

16 shall become effective at the time specified therein), and 

17 shall remain effective and enforceable as provided in the 

18 order, except to the extent that the order is stayed, modi- 

19 fied, terminated, or set aside by action of the Director or 

20 a court of competent jurisdiction. 

21 SEC. 302. TEMPORARY CKASE-ANTHJKSIST ORDERS. 

22 (a) Grounds for Issuance and Scope.— When- 

23 ever the Director determines that any violation, threatened 

24 violation, or activity that could result in. > rapid depletion 
23 of the capital of the enterprise, specified in the notice of 



joogle 



1 charges served upon the enterprise pursuant to section 

2 301(a), or the continuation thereof, is likely — 

3 (1) to cause insolvency of the enterprise; or 

4 (2) to weaken the condition of the enterprise 

5 prior to the completion of the proceedings conducted 

6 pursuant to section 301(b), 

7 the Director may issue a temporary order requiring the 
S enterprise to cease-and-desist from any such violation or 
9 activity and to take affirmative action to prevent or reme- 

10 dy such insolvency or condition pending completion of 

11 such proceedings. Such order may include any require- 

12 ment authorized under section 301(c). 

13 (b) Effective Date. — An order issued pursuant to 

14 subsection (a) shall become effective upon service upon the 

15 enterprise and, unless set aside, limited, or suspended by 

16 a court in proceedings pursuant to subsection (d), shall 

17 remain in effect and enforceable pending the completion 

18 of the proceedings pursuant to such notice and shall re- 

19 main effective until the Director dismisses the charges 

20 specified in the notice or until superseded by a eease-and- 

21 desist order issued pursuant to section 301. 

22 (c) Incomplete or Inaccurate Records. — 

23 (1) Temporary order, — If a notice of charges 

24 served under section 301(a) specifies that the books 

25 and records of the enterprise served are so ineom- 



; y Google 



m 

84 

1 plete or inaccurate that the Director is unable, 

2 through the normal supervisory process, to deter- 

3 mine the financial condition of the enterprise or the 

4 details or the purpose of any transaction or transac- 

5 tions that may have a material effect on the finan- 

6 cial condition of that enterprise, the Director may 

7 issue a temporary order requiring — 

8 (A) the cessation of any activity or practice 

9 which gave rise, whether in whole or in part, to 

10 the incomplete or inaccurate state of the books 

11 or records; or 

12 (B) affirmative action to restore the books 

13 or records to a complete and accurate state, 

14 until the completion of the proceedings under 

15 section 301. 

16 (2) Effective period. — Any temporary order 

17 issued under paragraph (1) — 

18 (A) shall become effective upon service; 

19 and 

20 (B) unless set aside, limited, or suspended 

21 by a court in proceedings pursuant to subsec- 

22 tion (d), shall remain in effect and enforceable 

23 until the earlier of— 



^Google 



194 

85 

1 (i) the completion of the proceeding 

2 initiated under section 301 in connection 

3 with the notice of charges; or 

4 (ii) the date the Director determines, 

5 by examination or otherwise, that the 

6 books and records of the enterprise are ac- 

7 curate and reflect the financial condition of 

8 the enterprise. 

9 (d) Judicial Review. — Within 10 days after an en- 

10 terprise has been served with a temporary cease-and-desist 

1 1 order pursuant to this section, the enterprise may apply 

12 to the United States district court for the judicial district 

13 in which the home office of the enterprise is located, or 

14 the United States District Court for the District of Colum- 

15 bia, for an injunction setting aside, limiting, or suspending 

16 the enforcement, operation, or effectiveness of the order 

17 pending the completion of the administrative proceedings 

18 pursuant to the notice of charges served upon the enter- 

19 prise under section 301(a). Such court shall have jurisdic- 

20 tion to issue such injunction. 

21 (e) Enforcement by Attorney General. — In the 

22 case of violation or threatened violation of, or failure to 

23 obey, a temporary order issued pursuant to this section, 

24 the Director may request the Attorney General of the 

25 United States to bring an action hi the United States dis- 



ibyGoogle 



1 trict court for the judicial district in which the home office 

2 of the enterprise is located or the United States District 

3 Court for the District of Colombia for an injunction to 

4 enforce inch order. If the court finds any such violation, 

5 threatened violation, or failure to obey, the court shall 

6 issue such injunction. 

7 SEC. 303. HEARINGS AND JUDICIAL HKVTfiW. 

8 (a) Venue and Procedure. — Any hearing under 

9 section 301 or 302— 

10 (1) shall be held in the Federal judicial district 

11 or in the territory in which the home office of the 

12 enterprise is located unless the enterprise consents 

13 to another place; and 

14 (2) shall be conducted in accordance with the 

15 provisions of chapter 5 of title 5, United States 

16 Code. 

17 <b) Issuance op Order.— 

18 (1) In general. — After such hearing, and 

19 within 90 days after the Director has notified the 

20 parties that the case has been submitted to the Di- 

21 rector for final decision, the Director shall render 

22 the decision (which shall include findings of fact 

23 upon which the decision is predicated) and shall 

24 issue and serve upon each party to the proceeding 



^iizad byGoogle 



196 

87 

1 an order or orders consistent with the provisions of 

2 this title. 

3 - (2) Modification. — Judicial review of any 

4 such order shall be exclusively as provided in subsec- 

5 tion (c). Unless a petition for review is timely filed 

6 in a court of appeals of the United States as provid- 

7 ed in subsection (c), and thereafter until the record 

8 in the proceeding has been filed as so provided, the 

9 Director may at any time, modify, terminate, or set 
10 . : aside any such order, upon such notice and in such 

1 1 manner as the Director considers proper. Upon such 

12 filing of the record, the Director may modify, termi- 

13 nate, or set aside- any such order with permission of 

14 the court. 

15 (c) Judicial Review. — . 

16 (1) Commencement.—- Any party to any pro- 

17 ceeding under subsection (a) may obtain a review of 

18 any order served pursuant to such subsection by the 

19 filing in the court of appeals of the United States 

20 for the circuit in which the home office of the enter- 

21 prise is located or to the United States Court of Ap- 

22 peals. for the District of Columbia Circuit,- within 30 

23 days after the date of service of such order, a writ- 

24 . ten petition praying that the order of the Director 

25 be modified, terminated, or set aside. The clerk of 



ibyGoogle 



1 the court shall transmit a copy of the petition to the 

2 Director. 

3 (2) Piling op record. — Upon receiving a 

4 copy of a petition, the Director shall file in the court 

5 the record in the proceeding, as provided in section 

6 2112 of title 28, United States Code. 

7 (3) Jurisdiction. — Upon the filing of a peti- 

8 tion, such court shall have jurisdiction, which upon 

9 the filing of the record by the Director shall (except 

10 as provided in the last sentence of subsection (b)(2)) 

11 be exclusive, to affirm, modify, terminate, or set 

12 aside, in whole or in part, the order of the Director. 

13 (4) Review. — Review of such proceedings shall 

14 be governed by chapter 7 of title 5, United States 

15 Code. 

16 (d) No Automatic Stay. — The commencement of 

17 proceedings for judicial review under subsection (c) shall 

18 not, unless specifically ordered by the court, operate as 

19 a stay of any order issued by the Director. 

20 8T^. 30i. EIWtJRCKMBNT AND JURISDICTION. 

21 (a) Enforcement.— The Director may request the 

22 Attorney General of the United States to bring an action 

23 in the United States district court for the judicial district 

24 in which the home office of the enterprise is located or 

25 the United States District Court for the District of Colura- 



jOOgle 



1 bia for the enforcement of any effective notice or order 

2 issued under this title, and the court shall have jurisdic- 

3 tion and power to order and require compliance herewith. 

4 (b) Limitation on Modification. — Except as oth- 

5 erwise provided in this Act, no court shall have jurisdiction 

6 to affect, by injunction or otherwise, the issuance or en- 

7 forcement of any notice or order under this section or to 

8 review, modify, suspend, terminate, or set aside any such 

9 notice or order'. 

10 SEC 805. CIVIL HONEY PENALTIES. 

11 (a) Unintentional Violations.— Any enterprise 

12 that, without knowledge — 

13 (1) violates any law, rule, or regulation, 

14 (2) violates any final order or temporary order 

15 issued pursuant to section 301 or 302, 

16 (3) violates any condition imposed in writing by 

17 tile Director in connection with the grant of any ap- 

18 plication or other request by an enterprise, or 

19 (4) violates any written agreement between an 

20 enterprise and the Director, 

21 shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 

22 for each day during which such violation continues. 

23 (b) Intentional Violations. — Notwithstanding 

24 subsection (a), any enterprise that knowingly commits any 

25 violation described in subsection (a) shall be subject to a 



jOOgle 



199 

90 

1 civil penalty in an amount not to exceed the applicable 

2 maximum amount determined under subsection (c) for 

3 each day during which such violation, practice, or breach 

4 continues. 

5 (c) Maximum Amount of Penalties. — The maxi- 

6 mum daily amount of any civil penalty which may be as- 

7 sessed pursuant to subsection (b) for any violation de- 

8 scribed in such subsection shall be an amount not to ex- 

9 ceed the lesser of $1,000,000 or one percent of the total 

10 assets of such enterprise. 

11 (d) Procedures. — 

12 (1) Establishment.— The Director shall es- 

13 tablish standards and procedures governing the im- 

14 position of civil money penalties under subsections 

15 (a) and (b). The standards and procedures — 

16 (A) shall provide for the Director to make 

17 the determination to impose the penalty; 

18 (B) shall provide for the imposition of a 

19 penalty only after the enterprise has been given 

20 notice of, and opportunity for, a hearing on the 

21 record; and 

22 (C) may provide for review by the Director 

23 of any determination or order, or interlocutory 

24 ruling, arising from a hearing. 



^Google 



200 

91 

1 (2) Final orders. — If an enterprise does not 

2 request a hearing within 15 days after receipt of a 

3 notice of opportunity for hearing, the imposition of 

4 a penalty shall constitute a final and unappealable 

5 determination. If the Director reviews the determi- 

6 nation or order, the Director may affirm, modify, or 

7 reverse the determination or order. If the Director 

8 does not review the determination or order within 90 

9 days after the issuance of the determination or 

10 order, the determination or order shall be final. 

1 1 (3) Factors in determining amount of 

12 PENALTY. — In determining the amount of a penalty 

13 under subsection (a) or (b), the Director shall give 

14 consideration to such factors as the gravity of the 

15 violation, any history of prior violations (including 

16 violations occurring before date under subsection 

17 (j)), the effect of the penalty on the safety and 

18 soundness of the enterprise, any injury to the public, 

19 any benefits received, and deterrence of future viola- 

20 tions, and any other factors the Director may deter- 

21 mine by regulation. 

22 (4) Reviewability of imposition of penal. 

23 TY.— -The determination or order of the Director im- 

24 posing a penalty under subsection (a) or (b) shall 



^Google 



201 

92 

1 not be subject to review, except as provided in sub- 

2 section (e). 

3 (e) Judicial Review of Determination. — 

4 (1) IN GENERAL. — After exhausting all admin- 

5 istrative remedies established by the Director under 

6 subsection (d)(1), an enterprise against which the 

7 Director has imposed a civil money penalty under 

8 subsection (a) or (b) may obtain review of the penal- 

9 ty and such ancillary issues as may be addressed in 

10 the notice of the determination to impose a penalty 

11 under subsection (d)(1)(A) in the appropriate court 

12 of appeals of the United States, by filing in such 

13 court, within 20 days after the entry of such order 

14 or determination, a written petition praying that the 

15 order or determination of the Director be modified 

16 or be set aside in whole or in part. 

17 (2) Objections not raised in hearing.— A 

18 court shall not consider any objection not raised in 

19 a hearing conducted pursuant, to subsection (d)(1) 

20 unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary cir- 

21 cumstanees causing the failure to raise the objection. 

22 If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the 

23 court that additional evidence, not presented at such 

24 hearing, is material and that there were reasonable 

25 grounds for the failure to present such evidence at 



ibyGoogle 



93 

1 the hearing, the court shall remand the matter to 

2 the Director for consideration of the additional evi- 

3 dence. 

4 (3) Scope op review. — The review decisions, 

5 findings, and determinations of the Director shall be 

6 conducted pursuant to section 706 of title 5, United 

7 States Code. 

8 (4) Order to pay penalty.— Notwitbstand- 

9 ing any other provision of law, the court shall have 

10 the authority in any such review to order payment 

11 of the penalty imposed by the Director. 

12 (f) Action to Collect Penalty. — If an enterprise 

13 fails to comply with a determination or order of the Direc- 

14 tor imposing a civil money penalty under subsection (a) 

15 or (b), after the determination or order is no longer sub- 

16 ject to review as provided by subsections (d)(1) and (e), 

17 the Director may request the Attorney General of the 

18 United States to bring an action in an appropriate district 

19 court to obtain a monetary judgment against the enter- 

20 prise and such other relief as may be available. The mone- 

21 tary judgment may, in the discretion of the court, include 

22 any attorneys fees and other expenses incurred by the 

23 United States in connection with the action. In an action 

24 under this subsection, the validity and appropriateness of 



■HRfOOBl 

*" d ..k Google 



1 SEC. 307. SUBPOENA AUTHORITY. 

2 (a) In General. — In the course of or in connection 

3 with any administrative proceeding under this title, the 

4 Director shall have the authority — 

5 (A) to administer oaths and affirmations; 

6 (B) to take or cause to be taken deposi- 

7 tions; 

8 (C) to issue subpoenas and subpoenas 

9 duces tecum; and 

10 (D) to revoke, quash, or modify subpoenas 

11 and subpoenas duces tecum issued by the 

12 Director. 

13 (b) Witnesses and Documents. — The attendance 

14 of witnesses and the production of documents provided for 

15 in this section may be required from any place in any 

16 State at any designated place where such proceeding is 

17 being conducted. i 

18 (c) Enforcement. — The Director may request the 

19 Attorney General of the United States to bring an action 

20 in the United States district; court for the judicial district 

21 in which such proceeding is being, conducted, or where the 

22 witness resides or conducts business, or the United States 

23 District Court for the District of Columbia, for enforce- 

24 ment of any subpoena or subpoena duces tecum issued 

25 pursuant to this section. Such courts shall have jurisdic- 

26 tion and power to order and require compliance therewith. 



ly Google 



205 

96 

1 (d) Fees and Expenses. — Witnesses subpoenaed 

2 under this section shall be paid the same fees and mileage 

3 that are paid witnesses in the district courts of the United 

4 States. Any court having jurisdiction of any proceeding 

5 instituted under this section by an enterprise may allow 

6 to any such party such reasonable expenses and attorneys 

7 fees as the court deems just and proper. Such expenses 

8 and fees shall be paid by the enterprise or from its assets. 

9 TITLE IV— PRIMACY OF FINAN- 
10 CIAL SAFETY AND SOUND- 
n NESS FOR THE FEDERAL 

12 HOUSING FINANCE BOARD 

13 SBC. 401. DUTIES OF FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE BOARD. 

14 Section 2A(a)(3) of the Federal Home Loan Bank 

15 Act (12 U.S.C. 1422a(a)(3)) is amended to read as foi- 

16 lows: 

17 "(3) DUTD3S.— 

18 "(A) Safety and soundness. — The primary 

19 duty of the Board shall be to ensure that the Feder- 

20 al Home Loan Banks operate in a financially safe 

21 and sound manner. 

22 "(B) Other duties:— To the extent consistent 

23 with subparagraph (A), the duties of the Board shall 

24 also be — 



Digged byGoOgle 



97 

1 "(i) to supervise the Federal Home Loan 

2 Banks; 

3 "(ii) to ensure that the Federal Home 

4 Loan Banks cany out their housing finance 

5 mission; and 

6 "(Hi) to ensure that the Federal Home 

7 Loan Banks remain adequately capitalized and 

8 able to raise funds in the capital markets.". 



^Google 



SECTION BY SECTION 

[■-sponsored bousing m 

rXMUICIAL SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS ACT OF 1991 
Sac. 1. SHOXT TITLE AND TABLE OP CONTBMTS. 



Sec. 3. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS. 

Contain* finding of Congress regarding the Federal National 
Mortgage Association (FNMA] J the Federal Hone Loan Mortgage 
Corporation (FHLKC (known collectively aa tha antarprisaa] ; and 
the Federal Hon* Loan Bank* (the Banks) , Such findings include 
the importance of tha aiaaions of tha FNKA, the FHLMC and the 
Banks to housing, the need for Bare effective regulation of the 
FNMA and the FBUfC, tha Minimal financial risk that these 
entities pose to tha Fadaral Government and tha lack of fadaral 
guarantee behind these entities. 

Sac. 3. DEFINITIONS. 

Provides definitiona for the Act. 

TITLE I— SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF FNMA AND FHUK 



Establishes, effective January 1, 1993, the Office of Secondary 
Market Examination and Oversight (the Office) in tha Department 
Of Bousing and urban Development (HUD) . 

Sac. 102. DIRECTOR. 

Provides that the Director of tha Office shall be appointed by 
the President with the advice and consent of tha senate from 
among individuals that are citizens and that have experience in 
financial management or oversight. An individual who has served 
with either the FNMA or tha FHLKC in an executive capacity at any 
point during the five years prior to the appointment as Director 
is ineligible to be appointed. 
Provides that the Director shall serve for a tan of five years 



xibyOooyle 



Mid any vacancy In the office of director ahall be filled In the 
saia eanner aa the original appointment bat only for the 

remainder of the original director's term. 

Provides for a deputy director, who shall be appointed by the 
President with the advise and consent of the Senate. The Deputy 
Director shall have such powers and duties aa are delegated by 
the Director and shall serve as director In the event of the 
Director's absence death, or resignation until a successor 
director can he appointed. 

Sec. 103. AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR. 

Provides that the Director shell have the exclusive authority (1) 
to eetabliah the risk baaed capital standards for new programs 
programs that are significantly and materially different from 
programs that the enterprises are engaged in or have engaged in 
on or prior to the date of enactment, except that any program 
undertaken on a temporary or limited basis on the date of an 
enactment la a new program, if carried out on a permanent or 
expanded basis), (2) to examine the enterprises, (3) to appoint a 
conservator, (4) to take any enforcement actions, and (5) to 
approve the payment of dividends under some circumstances. 

Provides that any authority not specifically Hated, including 
the authority to establish rules and regulations, is subject to 
the review of the Secretary and is not subject to the review or 
approval of any other officer of HUD. 



Provides that the Director shall appoint and fix the condensation 
of the officers and employees of the office without regard to 
civil service requirements. 

Sec. 105. POHDIM. 

Provides that the Director say assess and collect sufficient 
funds from the enterprises to pay tor the operations of the 
Office and any examinations. Such funds shall be placed in a 
fund known as the Secondary Market Examination and Oversight Fund 
and amounts from such fund shall be available to the extent 
provided in appropriations acts. 

Sec. 106. ANNUAL REPORTS. 

Provides that the Director shall report annually, by April 15th, 
to Congress on the financial status of the enterprises, the 
actions of the Director to implement the provisions of the Act, 
and any legislation needed to enhance the safety and soundness of 
the enterprises. 



xibyOooyle 



Subtitle B— Amendment* to Other Acts 
AMENDMENTS TO FEDERAL KATIOHAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION 

Amends the charter of ths PUMA to make technical changes to 
delete obsolete and out-of-datm provision* and to provide tar 
conforming changes. 

Delete* references to the authority of the Secretary of HDD with 
reapect to the approval of dividends and to provide that the 
Director require the non to report prior to declaring or paying 
dividend*. 

L obligation* to 



Limits the compensation of executive officer* (the chief 
financial officer, the chief executive officer and any individual 
who participates in major policy Baking) to a compensation level 
that ia no mora than officers in comparable positions at the 
FHLMC are making on July 1, 1991, plus adjustments based on the 
adjustments made to civil service salaries. This limitation 
would only apply to new personnel or to current personnel if they 
enter into a new employment contract after enactment of the Act. 

Provides the secretary of HUD shall have general regulatory power 
over the FMMA except for thoee authorities specifically granted 
to the Director. 

Requires the secretary to ensure that a reasonable portion of the 
PNHA's mortgage purchases be related to the national goal of 
providing adequate housing for low- and moderate- income families, 
but with a reasonable economic return to the FKHA Defines a 
low-income family as one whose income does not exceed BO percent 
of median and a moderate- income family am one whose income does 
not exceed 100 percent of median. 

Prohibits the FNMA from carrying out new programs without the 
prior approval of the Secretary end only upon a determination 
that the new program conforms with the requirements and purposes 
of the charter. 



xibyOooyle 



* the secretary as the secretary 



the currant GAO audit authority to include all financial 



Requires the PNiu to report quarterly to the Director on the 
financial condition of the corporation. Authorises the Director 
ta require additional and special reports. 

Requires the PRHA to reserve from general surplus an amount equal 
to 20 percent of any dividends paid by the fhha during the 
preceding year to be uaed for low-income rental housing including 
limited equity cooperatives. Prohibits the FHHA from increasing 
fees to contribute to the program. Tha FNMA ia not required to 
reserve such funds whenever It fails to meet either tha risk 
baaed capital level or the minimum capital level. The board of 
directors of the FKHA ahall establish the requirements for 
housing under this affordable housing program. This program 
shall provide that the funds shall be used for specific projects 
selected by the board of directors, that the housing assisted 
under the program reaain available to low-income persons during 
its useful life, that the housing meet certain targeting 
requirements and that the projects assistsd be geographically 
diverse. The Secretary of BOD is required to monitor the housing 
assisted under the program to ensure continued compliance with 
the low-income use restrictions. The FNMA ia required to report 
to the Secretary annually on Its activities under this program. 

see. 122. AMENDMENTS TO FEDERAL HONK LOAM MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
ACT. 

Amends the charter of the FHUfC to make technical changes to 
delate obsolete and out-of-date provisions, including provisions 
requiring the Federal Home Loan Banks to hold nonvoting common 
stock of the FHLMC, and to provide for conforming f* — 



■equina that one of the five directors of the FKLKC appointed by 
the President represent the interest of consumers or low income 
residents. 

Provides the secretary of HDD Shall have general regulatory power 
over the FKLKC except for those authorities specifically granted 
to the Director. 



Requires the secretary to anaure that a reasonable portion of the 



xibyOooyle 



rautC'a Mortgage pwcbaiM be related to the national goal of 
providing adequate housing for low- and moderate- income families, 
but with a reasonable economic return to the FHLMC. 

Delates references to the authority of the Secretary of HUD with 
respect to the approval of dividends and provides that tha 
Director nay require tha FHLMC tc report prior to declaring 
dividend*. Prohibits tha FHLMC from making any dividend payment 
that would cause the Corporation to fail to meet either the risk 
beaed capital standard or the minimum capital level. 

Deletaa tha authority of tha Secretary of HDD to examine and 
audit, the books and financial transactions of the Corporation, 
and deletes tha Secretary s authority to approve atock lssuancaa. 

Prohlbits the rHLKC fro* carrying out new programs without the 
prior approval of the Secretary and only upon m determination 
that the new program conforms with the requireaenta and purposes 
of the charter. 

Deletes 15:1 obligation to capital ratio. 

Limits the compensation of executive officers (tha chief 
financial officer, the chief executive officer and any individual 
who participates in major policy making) to no more than such 
officera in comparable positions at FHLMC are making on July 1, 
1991, plua adjustments based on the adjustments made to civil 
service salaries. This limitation would only apply to new 
personnel or to current personnel if they enter into a new 
employment contract after enactment of the Act. 

Require* the FHmc to report to the secretary as the Secretary 
requires and reguirea the secretary to report annually to 
congreee. 

Requires the fhlmc to report quarterly to the Director on tha 
financial condition of the corporation. Authorises the Director 
to require additional and special reports. 

Require* the FHLMC to reserve from general surplus an amount 
equal to 20 percent of any dividends paid by the FHLMC during the 
preceding year to be used for lov-income rental housing including 
limited equity cooperatives. Prohibits the FHLMC from increasing 
feea to contribute to the program. The FHLMC is not required to 
reserve such funds whenever it fails to meet either the risk 
based capital level or the minimum capital level. The board of 
directors of the fhlmc shall establish the requirements for 
housing under this affordable housing program. Thla program 
shall provide that the funds shall be used for specific projecta 
selected by the board of directors, that the housing assisted 
under the program remain available to low-income persons during 
its useful life, that the housing meet certain targeting 



xibyOooyle 



requirements, and that the projects assisted fee geographically 
diverse. The secretary or HUD is required to monitor the housing 
assist *d under the program to ensure continued compliance with 
the low-income use restrictions. The FHUIC is required to report 
to thai Secretary annually on lta activities under this program. 

Sac. 123. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 5 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE. 

Amends Title S of the United State* Cod* to lake the Director at 
Level II of the Executive Schedule and the Deputy Director at 
Level III of the Executive Schedule. 

Subtitle C— Implementation 

Sec. 131. IMPLEMENTATION. 

Requires that the Secretary of HUD and the Director issue 

regulations implementing this title within 18 months of enactment 

of this Act. Such regulations shall clearly delineate the 
responsibilities and authority of the secretary and the Director 

pursuant to the amendments made by this title. 

TITLE 11- 
Sec. 201. RISK-BASED CAPITAL LEVELS. 



Requires that the risk-based capital levels be an amount of 
regulatory capital (core capital (par value of outstanding common 
stock, par value of outstanding preferred stock, paid in capital 
plus retained earnings) plus reserves) equal to the amount of 
capital required by a credit risk stress test and by an interest 
rate stress test plus an amount for management and. operations 
risk and new program risk. 

Defines the credit risk to be a nationwide occurrence of default 
rates and loss severity equal to the enterprises worst three 
year experience on 30 year fixed rata mortgages in a standard 
region (a state or 3 or more contiguous states that have no less 
than 5 percent of the population of the United States) for which 
reliable data exists. The enterprises would be required to have 
sufficient cepitel to withstand such a circumstance for eight 
years. 

Defines the Interest rate risk to be either e 50 percent increase 
(not to exceed sou basis points) ever a 12-month period of 
Interest rates on 10 year Treasury obligations or a similar 
decrease end the maintenance of such rates for seven years. 



xibyGooyle 



Requires the enterprises to aaintain an additional amount Of 
capital for aanageaent and operations risk aqual to 20 par cant of 
the amounts naadad for interest and credit risk and providaa that 
the Director can adjust such requirement aa appropriate to 
reflect actual management and operations rlak. 



Sac. 202. minimum: capital levels. 

Establishes -that the Binimun capital level for each enterprise 
shall be (1) an amount of aarksd-to-aarket equity of tha 
enterprise equal to 2.0 percent of tha on-balance ahaat aaaata of 
tha enterprise, and 1.0 percent of tha unpaid principal balance 
of off-balance sheet obligations of tha enterprise with respect 
to residential mortgages and (2) an amount of core capital equal 
to 1.5 percent of the on-ba lance sheet assets of the enterprise, 
and 0.5 percent of the unpaid principal balance of off-balance 
sheet obligations of tha enterprise With respect to residential 



Tha tera ■aarkad-to-Markat equity of tha enterprise" neans tha 
difference between tha current aarket value of on- and off- 
balance sheet assets of the enterprise; and tha currant aarket 
value Of on-end off-balance aheat obligations of tha enterprise. 

Sac. 203. CRITICAL CAPITAL LEVELS. 

Establishes that "critical capital ia one-half of aarkad-to- 
marxat uiniaua capital and one-half of tha amount of core capital 
needed to Meat ainiaua capital. 

Sac. 204. ENFORCEMENT LEVELS. 



An enterprise is in Laval I. if the enterprise maintains an aaount 
of regulatory capital that meets or exceeds tha risk-based 
capital lavel and tha enterprise aeete or ex c eeds tha ainiaua 
capital level for tha enterprise. 

An enterprise shall be classified ss within Level II If tha 
enterpriee maintains an amount of regulatory capital that is lass, 
than tha risk-based capital level established tor tha enterprise 
and tha enterprise equals or exceeds tha ainiaua capital level 
for tha enterprise. 

An enterprise shall be classified am within Laval III if tha 
enterprise does not equal or ex c eed tha minimum capital level for 
the enterprise and equals the enterprise or exceeds the critical 



xibyOooyle 



capital laval for tha antarprlsa. 

An enterprise shall ba classified aa within Laval XV If tha 
enterprise does not equal or axcaad tha critical capital laval 
for tha antarprlsa. 

If tha Director determines, in writing, that an antarprlsa is 
talcing any action not approved by tha Director that could raault 
in a rapid depletion of capital or that tha value of tha property 
securing tha mortgages held or sat asida by tha enterprise baa 
dacraaaad significantly, tha Director may raclaaaify tha 
enterprise to a lower enforcement laval Such raclaaaif ication 
would allow a Laval I antarprlsa to bs classified as within Laval 
II or III; a Laval II enterprise aa within Laval III or ZVf and a 
Laval III antarprlsa aa within Laval IV. 



ACTIONS APPLICABLE' TO 

Requires tha Director to provide written notice to tha Congress 
and to tha enterprise that tha antarprlsa la within Laval II; 
that tha enterprise is subject to tha provisions of this section; 
and stating tha reasons for tha classification of tha antarprlsa 
within Laval II. 

i within Laval II to consult with tha 
tha Director a capita 
i carry out tha plan. 

Prohibits an antarprlsa within Laval II frosj aaking any payment 
of dividends that would result In tha antarprlsa being 
reclassified as within Laval III or IV. 

Raquiras the Director to reclassify immediately an enterprise 
within Level II as within Laval III if tha enterprise doea not 
submit the required capital restoration plan; or if the Director 
determines that the enterprise has failed to make, In good faith, 
all reasonable efforts necessary to comply with the capital plan 
and fulfill tha achedula for the plan approved by tha Director. 



xibyOooyle 



Sec. 206. SUPERVISORY ACTIOHS APPLICABLE TO DTTEHPRISES MITHIH 
LBVKL III. 

Requires mi enterprise within Level III shall aubait to the 
Director • capital restoration plan and, attar approval, to carry 
out tha plan. 

Prohibit* an enterprise within Laval III from making any payment 
of dividends that would raault In tha enterprise being 
reclassified as within Laval IV. An antarprlaa within Laval III 
nay make any other paynant of dividends only if tha Director 
approves the payment before the payment. Tha Director aay 
approve such a paynent of dividends only if the Director 
determines that the payment will enhance tha ability of the 
enterprise to meet the risk-based capital level and tha ainlaua 
capital level for the enterprise or is otherwise In the public 

Prohibits an enterprise within Level IIX from undertaking an 
activity subject to the approval of the Secretary of HDD under 
the enterprise's charter except with tha additional approval of 
the Director. 

Requires the Director to reclassify an enterprise within Level 
III es within Level IV if the enterprise does not aubait tha 
required capital restoration plan or the Director determines that 
the enterprise has failed to make, in good faith, all reasonable 
efforts necessary to comply with the capital plan and fulfill the 
schedule for the plan approved by the Director. 

Authorizes the Director to limit any Increase In, or order tha 
reduction of, any obligations of the enterprise, including off- 
balance sheet obligations; linit or prohibit the growth of the 
assets of the enterprise or require contraction of the assets of 
the enterprise; prohibit the enterprise from making any payment 
of dividends; require the enterprise to issue new capital in any 
form and in any amount sufficient to provide for the 
reclassification of the enterprise as within Level II; require 
tb* enterprise to terminate, reduce, or modify any activity that 
the Director determines creates excessive risk to tha enterprise; 
and appoint a conservator for tha enterprise. 



Requires tha Director to provide written notice to tha congress 
and to the enterprise that the enterprise is within Level IV and 
that a conservator shall be appointed for the enterprise pursuant 



xibyOooyle 



Such a conservator shall have all of the mandatory and 
discretionary powers of tho Dlraetor and nay undertake an 
activity subject to tha approval of to* Secretary under the PHltA 
charter or the FHLHC charter only with tha additional approval of 
the Director. 

This section shall take effect on January 1, 1993. 

Sen. 301. CONSERVATORSHIP. 

Authorizes, the Director to appoint a conservator for an 
enterprise upon a determination that the enterprise is not likely 
to pay its obligations in the normal course of business; that tha 
enterprise has incurred or is likely to incur losses that will 
deplete all or substantially all of its core capital and there is 
no reasonable likelihood that the enterprise will replenish its 
core capital without federal assistance; that tha enterprise has 
concealed books, papers, records, or assets of the snterprise, or 
refused to submit books, papers, records, or information 
regarding the affairs of tha enterprises for inspection to the 
Director upon request; or that the enterpriss is claaeified 
within Level III. 

Requires the Director to provide written notice to the Congress 
and to the enterprise that a conservator will be appointed for 
the enterprise under this eection before appointing a conservator 
under this section. 

Provides that an enterprise for which a conservator is appointed 
may bring an action in the United States district court for the 
judicial district in which the home office of such enterprise is 
located or in the united states District Court tor the District 
of Columbia, for an order requiring the Director to terminate the 
appointment of the conservator. Such an action may be commenced 
only be tors the expiration of the 2 -day period beginning upon 
the appointment of the conservator. A decision of the Director 
to appoint a conservator may be set aside only if the court finds 
that the decision was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of 
discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with applicable laws. 
Except as provided in this subsection, no court may take any 
action regarding the removal of a conservator or otherwise 
restrain or affect the exercise of powers or functions of a 
conservator. 

Authorises a conservator to request that any judicial action or 
proceeding to which the conservator or the enterprise is or may 
Becom e a party be stayed for a period of 45 days commencing upon 
the appointment of the conservator. Upon petition, the court 
shall grant such stay as to all parties. 

10 



xibyOooyle 



Authorises the Director to replace a conservator without notice 
or hearing uith another CoriMTVitor. The Director Bay examine 
and auparvlaa any enterprise In conservatorship during the period 
in which th« antarpriaa continues to oparata aa a going concern. 

Authorize* the Director to terminate a conaarvatorahip when tha 
Director determines it ia in tha public interest, and tha 
Director shall terminate a mandatory conservatorship upon a 
determination that tha antarpriaa equals or exceeds tha minimum 
capital level for tha antarpriaa. The Director may not imposs 
arty terns, conditions, or limitations on tha transaction of 
business of an antarpriaa whoa* conaarvatorahip ia terminated 
under this paragraph. 

Provides that a conservator ahall have all the powers of tha 
shareholders, directors, and officers of tha enterprise under 
conaarvatorahip and may operate the antarpriaa in the name of tha 
anterpriaa. A conservator ia subject to any rules regulations, 
and orders issued fron time to time by the Director. Tha 
Director may require a conservator to aet aside and make 
available for payment to creditor! any amounts that tha Director 
determines may safely be used for such purposs. All creditors 
who are similarly situatsd shall be treated in a similar manner. 

Provides that a conservator (other than tha Director) and 
professional enployess (other than Federal employees) appointed 
to represent or assist the conservator may be compensated for 
activities conducted aa conservator. Compensation may not be 
provided in amounts greater than tha compensation paid to 
employees of the Federal Government for similar services, except 
that the Director nay provide for compensation at higher rates 

but not in Sxcess of ratea prevailing in the private sector), if 
the Director determines that compensation at higher rates is 
necessary in order to recruit and retain compstsnt personnel. 
All expenses of a conservatorship shall be paid by the enterprise 
and shall be secured by a lien on the enterprise, which shall 
have priority over any other lien. 

Sec. 209. CAPITAL RESTORATION PLANS. 

Requires that each capital restoration plan set forth a feasible 
plan for tha enterprise to promptly equal or exceed the minimum 
capital level for tha enterprise and for promptly restoring the 
level of regulatory capital of the enterprise subject to the plan 
to not less than the risk-based capital level for the enterprise. 
Each such plan shall specify the level of capital tha anterpriaa 
will achieve and maintain; describe the actions that tha 
enterprise will take to equal or exceed tha relevant capital 
measures; establish a schedule for promptly completing the 
capital restoration plan; specify the types and levels of 
activities In which the enterprise will engage during the term of 



xi*, Google 



the capital restoration plan; and describe th* action* that tba 
enterpriae will taka to comply with any mandatory and 
discretionary requirements impneed undar this titla. 

Requires that auch plan ba aubaitted to tha Director not acre 
than 3 days after tha antarpriaa la notified that a plan la 
required Tha Diraetor Bay axtand tba daadlina. In writing and 
' ' ~ r determine* 



> tha axtant that tha Diraetor t 



Tha Diraetor 

aay axtand tha pariod for approval or disapproval (or a single 
additional 30-day pariod. 

Requires tha Diraetor to notify any antarpriaa aubmltting a plan 
in writing of tha approval or disapproval of tha plan and of- any 
extension of the period for approval or disapproval. 

Sao. 310. judicial uvnw or director action. 

Provides that a person aggrieved by an action of tha Director 
undar thia titla (except tha mandatory appointment of a 
conservator) nay obtain review of the action by filing, within 10 
days after receiving notice of the Director's action, a written 
petition requesting that the action of tha Director ba Modified, 
terminated, or set aaide. Such a petition shall ba filed in tha 
United Statea Court of Appaala for the District of Columbia 
Circuit or tha United States Court of Appeals for tha circuit in 
which tha enterprise maintains it* principal Office. 

Tha tarn "person aggrieved by an action of the Director" Beans, 
with raapect to in enterprise within Level I, II, or III, the 
enterprise that la the subject of a mandatory or discretionary 
supervisory action taken under this title. 

Provides that an action taken by th* Director may be modified, 
terminated, or set aaida only if the court finds, on the record 
on which the Director acted, that the action of the Director was 
arbitrary, capricioua, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not 
in accordance with applicable lawa. Except aa provided in thia 
section, no court shall havs jurisdiction to affect, by 
Injunction or otherwise, the issuance or effectiveness of any 
action of tha Director under thia section or to review, modify, 
suspend, terminate, or set aside auch action. 

•SO. 211. 1XAMIKATI0KS. 

Requires that tba Diraetor annually examine each enterprise to 
determine the condition of the enterprise for the purpose of 
ensuring; its financial eafety and soundness. 



xibyOooyle 



Authorises th* Director to conduct additional examinations whan 
the Director determines that an examination is necessary to 
deters! ne the condition of an enterprise for the purpose of 
ensuring its financial safety and soundness. Requires that 
examinations be conducted only by the Director and officers and 
employees of the Office. Prohibits the Director from basing any 
decision or action primarily upon information provided by 
technical experts or other entities that are not officers or 
employees of the Office. Authorizes the Director to obtain th* 
services of any technical experts the Director considers 
necessary and appropriate to provide temporary technical 
assistance relating to examinations. Requires th* Director to 
describe, in the public record of each examination th* nature 
and extent of any such temporary technical assistance. 

Authorises the Director to administer oaths and affirmations; 
take and preserve testimony under oath; and issue subpoenas 
requiring th* attendance and testimony of witnesses and the 
production of evidence in connection vith any examinations. 

Authorizes the Director to request that the Comptroller General 
examine the enterprise solely to provide an independent 
determination regarding th* safety and soundness of the 
enterprise. Such examination shall be conducted at a time and In 
* manner that results in minimal disruption to the normal 
business activities of the enterprise. The Comptroller General 
may obtain the services of technical expert* In th* same manner 
a* th* Director may Obtain such services under subsection (C) 
*XC*pt that any entity that assist* the Director in examining an 
enterprise may not concurrently assist the Comptroller General to 
examine the enterprise under this subsection. 

S*C. 312. CIVIL HONEY PENALTIES FOR FAILURE TO REPORT. 

Authorises the Director to impose a civil money penalty on any 

enterprise that maintains reasonable procedures designed to 
prevent errors and unintentionally submits to the Director (i) 
any false or misleading report or (ii) any false or misleading 
information; or submits any report minimally lata. The amount of 
a penalty under this paragraph, a* determined by th* Director, 
may not exceed SSOO per day for each day during which such 
failure continues or such false or misleading information is not 



Authorizes th* Director to impose a civil money penalty on any 
enterprise that fall* to make any report within th* period of 
time established by th* Director for submission of th* raport. 
Th* amount of th* penalty, as determined by the Director, say not 
exceed $10,000 per day for each day during which such failure 



xibyOooyle 



Authorises the Director to impose a civil money penalty on any 
enterprise that submits to tha Director any falsa or misleading 
raport or information with actual knowledge of inaccuracy, 
deliberate ignorance of inaccuracy, or reckless disregard for 
accuracy. The amount of the penalty nay not exceed $1,000,000 or 
1 percent of total assets of the enterprise, whichever ia leas, 
per day for each day during which such failure continues or such 
false or misleading information is not corrected. 

Requires the Director to establish standards and procedures 
-governing the imposition of civil money penalties. Such 
standards and procedures shall provide for the Director to Make 
the determination to impose the penalty; shall provide for the 
imposition of a penalty only after the enterprise has been given 
notice of, and opportunity for, a hearing on the record; and may 
provide for review by the Director of any determination or order, 
or interlocutory ruling, arising from a hearing. 

Provides for such a. determination to become a final order and for 
administrative and judicial appeal of such order and for 
collection of such penalty. 

In determining the amount of a penalty, the Director shall give 
consideration to such factors as the gravity of the violation; 
any history of prior violations,- the effect of the penalty on the 
safety and soundness of the enterprise; any Injury to the public; 
any benefits received; and deterrence of future Violations, and 
any other fact ore the Director may determine by regulation. 

TITLE III— CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDERS AGAINST FNMA AMD FRLMC 

See. 301. CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCBDURES. 

Authorizes the Director to issue and serve upon an enterprise a 
notice of charges if, in the determination of the Director, the 
enterprise ia engaging or has engaged, or the Director has 
reasonable cause to believe that the enterprise is about to 
engage, in any activity that could result in a rapid depletion of 
the core capital of the enterprise; or the enterprise is 
violating or has violated, or the Director has reasonable cause 
to believe that the enterprise is about to violate any law, rule 
or regulation, any condition imposed in writing by the Director 
in connection with the granting of any application or other 
request by the enterprise, or any written agreement entered into 
by the enterprise with the Director. 



xibyOooyle 



Authorizes the Director to include in much an order an order 
which requires an enterprise to cease and desist from such 
violation or to take affirmative action to correct or remedy any 
conditions resulting from any violation or activity vith respect 
to which such order is issued, including an order requiring such 
enterprise to sake restitution or provide reimbursement, 
indemnification, or guarantee against loss if the violation or 
activity involves a reckless disregard for the law or any 
applicable regulations or prior order of the Director; to 
restrict the growth of the enterprise; to dispose of any asset 
involved; to rescind agreements or contracts; to employ qualified 
officers or employees [who may be subject to approval by the 
Director at the direction of the Director); and take such other 
action as the Director determines appropriate. The authority to 
issue en order under this section includes the authority to place 
limitations on the activities or functions of the enterprise or 
any director or executive officer of the enterprise. 

t«C. 302. TEMPORARY CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS. 

Authorises the Director to issue a temporary cease and desist 
order whenever the Director determines that any violation, 
threatened violation, or activity that could result in a rapid 
depletion of the capital of the enterprise as specified in a 
notice for a cease and desist order is likely to causa insolvency 
of the enterprise, or to weaken the condition of the enterprise 
prior to the completion of the cease and desist proceedings. 
Authorizes the Director to take affirmative action to prevent or 
remedy such insolvency or condition pending completion of such 
proceedings. Such an order is effective immediately. 

Authorizes the Director to Issue a temporary cease and desist 
order if a notice of charges for e cease and desist order 
specifies that the books and records of the enterprise served are 
so incomplete or inaccurate that the Director is unable, through. 
the normal supervisory process, to determine the financial 
condition of the enterprise or the details or the purpose of any 
transaction or transactions that may have a material affect on 
the financial condition of that enterprise. Such a temporary 
order may require the cessation of any activity or practice which 
gave rise, to the incomplete or inaccurate stats of the books or 
records or affirmative action to restore the books or records to 
a complete and accurate state, until the completion of the cease 
snd desist proceedings. 

Provides for judicial review of a temporary cease end desist 
order In the United States district court for the judicial 
district in which the home office of the enterprise is located, 
or the United states District Court for the District of Columbia. 



xi*, Google 



In aueh an action, which nust be initiated within ID days of the 
issuance of the order, the enterprise aay request an injunction 
matting aside, limiting, or suspending the enforcement, 
operation, or effectiveness of the order pending the completion 
of the adnlnistrative proceedings pursuant to the notice of 
charges for the cease and desist order. Provides for the 
enforcement of a temporary cease and desist order by the Attorney 
General at the request of the Director 

Sac. 303. HEARINGS AMD JUDICIAL REVIEW. 

Provider that any hearing on a cease and desist order or a 
temporary cease and daaiat order by bald in the Federal Judicial 
district or in the territory in which tha home office of the 
enterprise is located unless the enterprise consents to another 

Requires the Director to render a decision within 90 days after 
such hearing and to issue and serve upon each party to the 
proceeding an order or orders consistent with the provisions of 
this title. 

Provides for Judicial review of tha Director's action in the 
court of appeals of the United States for the circuit in which 
the home office of the enterprise is located or in the United 
States Court of Appeals for tha District of Columbia Circuit, 
within 30 days after the date of service of such order The 
commencement of proceedings for judicial review shall not unless 
specifically ordered by the court, operate as a stay of any order 
issued by the Director. 

Sec. 304. .ENFORCEMENT AMD JURISDICTION. 

Provides that the Director nay request tha Attorney General to 
bring an action in the United States district court for the 
judicial district in which the home office of the enterprise is 
located of the United States District Court for the District of 
Columbia for the enforcement of any effective cease and desist 
notice or order and the court shall have jurisdiction and power 
to order and require compliance herewith Except as otherwise 
provided ill this Act, no court shall have jurisdiction to affect, 
by Injunction or otherwise, the issuance or enforcement of any 
notice or order under this section or to review, modify, suspend, 
terminate, or set aside any such notice or order. 

Sec. 303. CIVIL MONET PENALTIES. 

Provides that any enterprise that, without knowledge, violates 
any law, rule or regulation, violates any final order or 
temporary cease and desist order, violates any condition imposed 
In writing by the Director in connection with the grant of any 
application or other request by an enterprise, or violates any 

16 



xibyOooyle 



written aqreeaent between an antarpriaa and the Director, shall 
ba aubjact to a civil penalty of not mora than 14,000 tor Men 
day during which auch violation continues. 

Provides any antarpriaa that knowingly commits any violation 
described abova ahall ba aubjact to a civil panalty in an aaount 
not to exceed the laaaar of Si, 000, 000 or one percent of tha 
total ass«ts of auch antarpriaa for each day during which tha 
violation, practice or broach contlnuaa. 

Require* tha Director to aatabliah standards and procaduraa 
governing tha imposition of civil money panaltiaa. Such 
atandarda and procaduraa ahall provida for tha Diractor to aaka 
tha determination to impose tha panalty; ahall provide for tha 
iapoaltion of a panalty only after tha antarpriaa has been given 
notice of, and opportunity for, a hearing on the record; and Bay 
provide for review by tha Diractor of any determination or order, 
or interlocutory ruling, ariaing from a hearing. 

Provides that auch a determination to bacoaa a final ordar and 
for administrative and judicial appeal of auch ordor and for 
collection of auch panalty. 

In determining tha aaount ef a panalty, tha Diractor ahall give 
consideration to auch factors as tha gravity of tha violation, 
any history of prior violations, tha affect of tha penalty on tha 
aafaty and soundness of tha enterprise, any injury to tha public, 
any benefits received, and deterrence of future vlolationa, and 
any other faetore the Diractor amy determine by requletlon. 

Sao. 90S. HOTICI OP SERVICE. 

Provides that any service required or authorised to be Bade by 
tha Director under this title ba made by rag later ad Mail, or in 
auch other manner reasonably calculated to give actual notice aa 
the Diractor aay by regulation or otherviae provide. ,' 

Sec. 307. SUBPOENA AUTHORITY. 

Authorizes tha Director, in the eourae of or in connection with 
any administrative proceeding under thie title, to adainiater 
oaths and affirmations; to take or cauae to ba taken depoaitiona; 
to laaua subpoenas and eubpoenaa ducaa tecum; and to revoke, 
quash, or modify subpoenas and subpoena a ducaa tacua issued by 
tha Diractor. 

Provides that the attendance of wltneaoea and the production of 
documents provided for in thia section aay be required fron any 

J lace in any State at any designated place where auch proceeding 
a being conducted. 



IbyGOGgle 



Authorises the Director to request the Attorney General of tht 
United Statu to bring an action in the United states district 
court for th« judicial district in which such proceeding is being 
conducted, or where th* witness resides or conducts business, or 
the Onitad Statas District Court for th* Distriot of Columbia, 
for enforcement of any subpoana or aubpoana ducaa tecum Issued 
pursuant to this ■action. Such courts shall hava jurisdiction 
and power to ordar and require compliance therewith. 

Providas that witnesses aubpoanaad undar this ■action shall be 
paid th* same faas and mileage that are paid witnesses in tha 
district courts of ths Unltad Statas. Any court having 
jurisdiction of any proceeding instituted undar this section by 
an enterprise nay allow to any such party such reasonable 
expanses and attorneys fees as the court deems just and proper, 
such expenses and fses shall be paid by the enterprise or from 
its assets. 



SaC. 401. DUTIES OF FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE BOARD. 

Amends the Federal Bo** Loan Bank Act to provide that th* primary 
duty of th* Federal Housing Finance Board shall be to ensure that 
the Federal Homa Loan Banks operate in a financially safe and 



xibyOooyle 



CHAIRMAN HKMRy B. GONZALB2 
JULY 11, 1*91 



Today v* begin the aecond stag* of the process of providing for tho 

financial safety and soundness of tho Federal National Mortgage 
Association, tho Federal Hose Leon Mortgage Corporation, and the 
federal Hobo Loan Banka and addrooaing potential regulatory gapa 
with respect to theae entitiee. 

At our hearings in Kay we war* presented with teetieony and report* 
by the Department of Troaaury, tho Department of ROD, the 
Congreaaional Budget Office and tho General Accounting Office. 
Thia toatiaony and theae etudiea uniformly stated that Fannie Haa 
and Freddie Mao pea* no J— id lata risk to tho Federal GovornBant 
and that tho Banka peaa Blnlaal risk. However, all of the studios 
agree that the raqulatory scheme for theae enterprises needs to be 
rotomed to ensure that tho risks to tho Government stay BBall. 

To this and , Congreeavomen Roukasa , Congressman My lie and I 
introduced legislation on Tuesday to address regulatory gapa and ■ 
ensure tho continued financial viability Of tho anterpriaea. I 
will not go into detail about tho legislation at this point; 
however, I do want to highlight sobo important provisions in the 
bill. 



xibyOooyle 



First, thia legialation follows the 
Woo— ndatlon and provides for an financial safety and Boundness 
regulator In tba Department of Housing and Urban Development. Thi» 
requlator would ba raaponaibla far ensuring that Fannla Haa and 
Fraddla Mac remain financially aafa and aound by aattlng and 
enforcing capital standards for thsss sntarprisss. 

Sacond, tha regulation updataa tba capital requirement a for Fannla 
Maa and Fraddla Haa. lbs currant reguireaent doaa not take into 
account tha axtanaiva off-balanca ahee t liabilitlaa of tha 
antarpriaas. Riek-baeed capital lavala for Fannla and Fraddla will 
ba dataralnad through tha application of strass tests tha 
par— atara of which ara daflnad In tha bill. 

Third, tha bill Will dsflna Fannla 1 a and Freddie's rola in 
providing low and aodarata incoaa houalng by adding daf lnitlons for 
low Incoaa housing (80% of nadian incoaa) and seder ate incoaa 
housing (100% of sodian incoaa) and by requiring that Fannla Has 
and Fraddla Mac each annually devote an amount equal to 20% of 
their prior yaar'a divldanda to a program to provide low Incoaa 
rental housing. 

Finally, tha bill would llnlt tha compensation that nay ba provided 
to tha executives of Fannie and Freddie. 

X expect our witnesses today and tomorrow to consent on these and 
other provisions In the bill. This bill la a start, and tba 



xibyOooyle 



purpoM of tha haaring today Is to obtain tb* insight of tha 
vitnaaaaa ao that they can ba oonaidarad aa va bag in Markup of tha 
bill naxt vaak. 



!£ ibyG00gle j 



Chairman, today begins a process to altar tit* ragulatory 

• of Government Sponaorad Enterprises (GSKs) . The hearing 

today and tomorrow and tha laglalation that we will shortly consider la 
about tvo issues: (l) tha riak to tha gove rnm ent and tha taxpayers 
from tha oparationa of GSEa; and (2) national houaing policy and tha 
GSEa' rola in fulfilling that policy. Tha afforta of tha GSBa in 
protecting tha taxpayer agalnat liability and their afforta to provide 
affordable houaing are Indeed commendable. Through theaa agencies, the 
Congress haa wide hundreda of billiona of dollara available to eaaiat 
Americana with homeovnsrship opportunltiea. 

Tha Chairman and his atari have a done a Boat commendable job in 
drafting ll.R. 2900, eapacially given the reaponaibilitiaa of tha 
Banking comlttee in recent weeka. it la ay understanding that there 
are four separata araaa where laaua hea been taken by affected parties 
regarding thla legialatlon. It ia my hope that the witnesses and tha 
dial roan will clarify tha intent of the language contained in thase 
provisions. These araaa include: (1) the discretion of the regulator 
to unilaterally detereina the rata and capital standards for management 
and oparationa riak, as opposed to a fixed capital level; (2) the need 
for multiple approval from regulators for new financial inatrumanta by 
GSBa and tha competitive problem* that may ariae from this requirement; 
(3) the potential impact of a dividend tax for houaing purposes and its 
potential impact on capital formation and a potential decrease in 
overall funding for affordable houaing programs; and (4) Salary caps 
for GSB employees. 

i and to moving 



xibyOooyle 



OPENING STATEMENT OF 
CONGRESSWOMAN MAXINE WATERS 
HEARING ON GOVERNMENT-SPONSORED 
ENTERPRISES (GSEsJ 

July 18, 1991 

Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling this hearing 
today. I am especially grateful to you for having 
hearings so soon after you have introduced legislation 
on government sponsored housing enterprises. These 
hearings will give us a chance to review your 
proposal and hear testimony about the effects the 
changes will have on housing policy. This will give 
members of this subcommittee, particularly new members 
like me, a better framework as we proceed with marking 
up the legislation next week. 

As I read through your proposal, the Government- 
Sponsored Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and 
Soundness Act of 1991, I was pleased with several 
components. Unlike so many financial institutions, 
the GSEs are in good financial condition overall. 
Nonetheless, there has been testimony before this 
Committee suggesting that under certain economic 
conditions, the GSEs could have serious difficulties. 
It is exceedingly responsible that this legislation 
applies the lessons of the past and prescribes several 



xibyOooyle 



precautionary measures that will reduce the likelihood 
of trouble for the GSEs in the future. 

For example, the bit) instructs the Secretary of HUD 
to establish risk-based capital standards within one 
year of the enactment of this Act. Risky lending has 
undone even the most sound financial institutions in 
this country. Risk-based standards could have saved 
many banks and savings and loans from default. It is 
certainly a wise practice for GSEs. 

The bill enforces these standards by regulating the 
activities of enterprises based on their level of 
capital. A Level IV enterprise, the lowest rating, 
would automatically be placed in conservatorship. 
Again, this represents a forward-looking reform 
designed to limit the potential cost to the taxpayers. 

I was also pleased to note the limitations this 
legislation places on the incomes of executive 
officers. Clearly, something had to be done to limit 
the ridiculous salaries that are being paid to top GSE 
official. Few of our constituents would understand 
multi-million dollar contracts for GSE employees. 

Finally, I would like to raise one point which was 
raised at a hearing of this Subcommittee yesterday on 
HUD's report on removing barriers to affordable 



xibyOooyle 



281 



housing. One witness at the hearing, John Payne from 
Rutgers Law School and a long-time housing advocate, 
indicated that there were in fact restrictive features 
of the secondary mortgage market system. I intend to 
follow up on his comments but I would be interested to 
hear today concerns people have about any restrictive 
effects GSE policy have on affordable housing. 
Clearly, we will want to correct any negative impact 
on the housing market, especially for low-income 
people. 

I hope that in the course of this discussion we will 
be sure to address any areas which need fixing within 
GSEs to insure the maximum involvement in low-income 
housing. Thank you Mr. Chairman. 



xibyOooyle 



I REMARKS OF BXSJORABLE MAKE WXffEM 

HOOS^SG SUBCOMMITTEE 7/18/91 

SPONSORED ENTERPRISES 

Mr. Chai :.-■-, r , I want to coaaend you for holding this Mating today 
am we begin the process of considering H.R. 3900, a bill to provide Cot 
the safety and soundness and regulation of the CSEs for which I u 
pleased to join the Chairman aa a sponsor. 



prow d« an affordable 

citizens seeking the American dream of " homcomierahip. Ma continue to 

support this objective. 

sn looking at the i— e d late past and current 
i FANNIE and FREDDIE, the old adage, "If it ain't 
hb, ouat elk it" should apply 

Clearly, FREDDIE and FANNIE aze working. Recent highly impressive 
i by both organizations especially in light of 
real estate and mortgage markets, and the 
ta and now sow* of our insurance companies, are 

nnw -•■-" w> »m •=■..■..::■ portfolios. Is a great credit to the 

lsadazship of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Biendsel. 

Given this impressive performance, and if it were not for the 
requirement of the Budget Reconciliation Act to do so, this Matter aay 
not Mve seen any need for legislative action. 

Unfortunately for the GSEa, another old adage, that of 'Ming in 
tlw »rong place at the wrong tiae" is applicable. 

It cannot be denied that the newly revived interest and debate over 
the fu u e of the GSE* coaes as a di ect csult of the SSL debacle, the 
problem of fha solvency the recent decline in Our coaaerclal banks and 
the Just completed adoption of banking refora legislation. 

The large losses to the American taxpayer by way of the SiL and 
banking industries the size of the CSEs and their ever growing 
importance to the mortgage market and the implicit guarantee that the 
Federal government would not allow either corporation to suffer extensive 
losses equine that we examine the safety and soundness of these 
organizations, the isk to which the Federal government has been exposed 
by the act v ties of these entities and the changes that may be 
necessary to meet the public expectation that the taxpayei will not incur 



,db»GoogIc 



Thla Hill not be an easy task aa we aaw Tuesday when the atock of 
rANMIE and FUDDII dropped upon introduction of tha legislation. It 
would appear that tha market may not want any change in tha way tha GKs 
are regulated or the levels of capital they bold. 



bi-partisan fashion with the minority staff. 

This cooperative effort, which also included close cooperation with 
Treasury, hud and tha gses themselves, should Indicate the eatreae 
importance of this natter and that thla issue Is beyond a partisan, 
ua-versus-them issue. 



our attention. 

Tha Treasury proposal, which looked aore Ilka an atteapt to iMpoaa 
banking regulation and capital levels on the Otis waa perhaps to 
unrealistic. HDD's proposed regulations for tha Oils were Inadequate. 
Tha proposals put forward by the GBSs theaselves were, in part, 
self-serving. In other words, we had aore than enough auggestlona which 
we then had to compromise on. 

Even I was skeptical at tha beginning of thla process. I, for one, 
believed it was reasonable to explore tha aaparatlon of the functional 
regulation of the Clls froa the safety and soundness regulation aa we did 
In riBUm. 

I waa concerned about the Treasury recoaatndation for an "araa 
length" organisation within HUD which would oversea the safety and 
soundness issues and why I felt an Independent regulator, aodeled along 
the lines of tha PDIC, Bight be preferable. 

However, I am confortable that tha status of tha new regulator we 
have created within HUD and the "dependence we have given that Office 
will allow for the proper Interaction or oplonm which will paralt the 
OUa to continue their housing aiaalon while doing It In a aafe and sound 



but I 

■lailarly, I an satisfied that the capital levels and tha "stress 
test" ve have included in this bill are adequate to nest a long-term, 
general economic depression. Although we did aeet tha concerns Of the 
Oils on the explicit conditions under which risk-based capital Is set, I 
believe the new Regulator nainta ns tha ability to adjust those levels if 
conditions not now anticipated arise. 

Treasury may not like these levels and Bay argue, on principle, for 
higher capital but they have not made a case for higher levels nor have 
they identified what that higher laval of capital ahould be. I do not 
accept their argument that the Regulator should determine what the 
capital levels should be. The congress sets the capital levels for our 
banks and thrifts and we should do tha aaae for the GKe. 



Kit* Google 



The OSES themselves continue to have soma problems with the bill. 
am aura that they do net like tha affordable housing program; tha 
discretion wa give tha HDD Secretary to review and approve certain new 
product*! or avan tha aalacy comparability provisions in tha bill. 

1 aay agree with than in a number of uvi. AirhAimh r xin m» 
justify or defend fi ail 
not such a critical lsau 

They nay also have legitimate concerns about tha mechanism we have 
established to cacry out the affordable housing program in this bill. 
lut, maybe there really is i suU price that Bust be paid by tha GSRs 
for their -implicit 'government guarantee*. 

The special status ■■ govei 
rjUTNIE and Freddie: allows them to marrow 

markets than other private corporation; they also are exempt from 
certain registration requirements and they are exempt from state and 

Hhlle tha GSKs do pass most of this government ■subsidy" along to 
home buyara in tha form of lower mortgage interest rates, they have been 
known to be extremely generous to their shareholders and the market has 
reacted to that. 

Nevertheless, there has been concern expressed that housing 
opportunities are not reaching a certain segment of the general 
population and that tha GSEs must provide more assistance to those 
potential homeowners. If a batter mousetrap can be offered for an 
affordable housing program, I am aura tha Chairman will give it every 
consideration. 

In conclusion, Mr. Chairman I want to again thank you for your 
cooperation In putting together this bill and I look forward to tha 
testimony and the suggestions for ways to Improve this legislation am I 
am sura we will be ottered. 



xibyOooyle 



BB mm mi ntrivfiv 
bptctid at IOiOOJUI 
July It, 1991 



STATEMENT OF 

THE HONORABLE ROBERT R. 

UNDER SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY FOR FZMAKCS 

BEFORE THE 

tUBCOMMITTEE OH HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 

OF THE 

BOOSE COMMITTEE OM BkMRTRS, FINANCE AMD URBAN AFFAIRS 



Mr. Chairman and Members of the Subcommittee! 

It la a pleasure to be here today to present tha 
Admin iatrat ion ■ a position on H.R. 39000, tha "Government 
Sponsored Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act 
of 1991" (H.R. 2900). As you know, the Administration has also 

submitted legislation that addresses tha need for enhanced 
Federal supervision and increased capital of Government-sponsored 
Enterprises (GSEs) . 

I I i [■■■nil this subcommittee and tha full Sous* Banking 
Committee for its attantion to this issue which is important to 
taxpayers. The last decade has provided harsh lessons on tha 
need for affactive control of risk-talcing by financial 
institutions that benefit from an explicit or implicit Federal 
Government guarantee Tha difficulties brought on by the 
insolvency of a large part of tha thrift industry, the MB? 
bailout of the Farm Credit System, and the recent difficulties of 
the Rank Insurance Fund have all focused the attention of 
Congress and the Administration on other areas of taxpayer 
exposure to financial risk. GSEs, because of their sice and the 
marketplace perception of an implicit Federal guarantee are 
financial institutions whose safety and soundness must be of 
prime concern to public policymakers. The long-term financial 
viability of tha three largest GSEs, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and 
the Federal Home Loan Bank System, is a special responsibility of 
this subcommittee. The outstanding obligations of these housing 
GSEs represent approximately 90 percent of the total outstanding 
financial obligations of all of the GSEs. 

As we reported to the full House Banking Committee earlier 
this year, based on the analysis conducted for Treasury by the 
Standard I Poor's Corporation, ve have concluded that none of the 
housing GSEs poses an imminent financial threat to tha taxpayer. 
Unfortunately, the lack of an immediate GSE problem has caused 
some to suggest "if it ain't broken, don't fix it." Me, however. 



3gle \ 



believe that complacency would be inappropriate. The financially 
devastating failure of many federally insured thrift institutions 
in the 1980s was preceded by Many years of profitability of these 
institutions. Similarly, the weakness of many insured banks 
comas as an unpleasant surprise after years of apparent profits. 
The luxury of waiting until a financial crisis is painfully 
evident has now clearly been seen as costly and difficult for the 
American taxpayer. This subcommittee recognizes that the most 
prudent policy goal is to establish an effective regulatory 
framework that will significantly reduce the possibility of 
another financially painful government rescue. 

All of the various GfiB studies conducted over the last two 
years point to the need for more effective supervision of OSBs 
end a strong cushion of shareholder capital to avoid unfore s e en 
risk to the taxpayer. These cons i derations provided the basis 
for the Administration's legislative proposal and should, as 
woll, for this subcommittee's legislation. 

The Administration has several concerns about H.R. 2900. 
These concerns include the lack of primacy for safety end 
soundness regulation, weaker prompt corrective action and general 
enforcement powers, the inclusion of an affordable housing 
program and, most importantly, the proposed capital standards. 
Because appropriate capital standards are at the heart of 
responsible GSE legislation, I will use" the remainder of my 
statement to discuss our specific concerns about the proposed 
capital standards. 



The ability of the regulator to establish and enforce 
appropriate capital standards for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is 
the single most important regulatory tool needed to ensure their 
financial safety and soundness The capital standards proposed 
in H.R. 2900 are a serious concern for two principal reasons 
First, the proposed capital levels are significantly weaker than 
those In the Administration's bill. Second, ths regulator does 
not have statutory discretion in determining appropriate capital 
standards. 

The minimum capital standard, or leverage ratio, in H.R. 
2900 is lower than that in the Administration's proposal, even 
though, as of June 30, 1991, Fannie Mae already clears the 
Administration's hurdle by $100 million, and Freddie Mac, short 
by $241 million, is expected to meet this requirement, from 
retained earnings within one year. 

However, the most glaring weakness is the risk-based capital 
standard that represents the highest level of capital deemed 
appropriate for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The risk-based 
capital level in H.R 2900 is actually lower, by $23 million 
according to Freddie Mac's own analysis, than the minimum capital 
level in the Administration proposal. {See attached table.) 



xibyOooyle 



H.R. 2900 also eliminates Boat of the Director's discretion 
in establishing adequate capital standards, by "hardwiring" in 
statute the critical assumptions to be used in the stress test. 
This causes two problem*. First, it limits the Director to using 
stress test methodology, which is very sensitive to changes in 
parameters, rather than a range of teats based on different 
methodologies and other market- sensitive indicators. For 
example, Freddie Mac's own analysis indicates that a change Of 
only 5 percentage points in two critical assumptions, the loss 
rates upon default and fixed-rate loan prepayment rates, can 
result in a awing in equity capital requirements of $1,2 billion, 
or almost one halt of its current equity. 

Second, the Director would also have no flexibility in 
choosing parameters because the worst-case scenario would be 
already dictated in statute. The Director could not then alter 
the scenario until after a more stressful housing environment has 
been experienced and identified which may well be too late. If 
this bill had become law in 1980, the worst-case scenario used 
would have been 1973, but this would have been replaced two years 
later by events, the 1981-1984 Texas experience that quickly 
became the newest worst-case scenario. 

what needs to be done in this case is what we and the House 
Banking committee have dona in banking regulation — give the 
regulator flexibility, both with regard to methodology and the 
choice Of scenario and resulting parameters. The Director must 
have flexibility to adopt new methods of analysis which reflect 
evolving markets and financial instruments and require that 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac be able to survive in a variety of 
severe, but still plausible, economic environments. 

Why would there be opposition to the regulatory flexibility 
in the Administration's bill and which has traditionally been 
given to financial regulators? Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac say 
that the regulator will set the capital standards too high, 
thereby denying homabuyers mortgages at reasonable costs. He 
disagree, and I believe the facts support our case. First, 
demands for such higher capital should rightfully cone from the 
shareholders not the homeowners. The shareholders of Fannie Mae, 
for example, have benefitted from a corporate return on equity 
exceeding 25 percent on average for the last four years (19B7- 
1990) , which has translated into a return for its shareholders in 
excess of BO percent per year for the last three years to data 
(representing higher stock prices and dividends) . It would 
surely be possible to retain or raise significant funds to 
increase capital without causing shareholders to suffer 
significant distress. In fact, Fannie Hae and Freddie Mac's own 
internal estimates of their earnings and capital levels over the 
next three years indicate they will have no difficulty in 
neating, through retained earning*, the Administration's critical 



xi*, Google 1 



capital level, -'-«—— leverage ratio, and any reasonable risk- 
based capital level, Further, basad on their track record and 
earnings performance, these two fiSEa could aaaily ralaa 
additional capital through equity offering*. GAO corroborate* 
this general view whan it writes in its sost recent CSE study, 
"We believe It la possible tor ran.iie Mae and Freddie Mac to aeet 
increased capital requireaents without any resulting increase In 
mortgage rates." These are powerful arguments against dilution 
of the Administration ■ a proposed capital standard*. We do not 
have to choose between the taxpayer and the homeowner! wo can do 
both — protect the taxpayar while offering the honeowner 
mortgage money at fair rate*. 

If tba CBEs hava undue concarn that the Diractor will ba too 
■salons In carrying out the pro s cribed dutiaa by setting tba 
riak-baaad capital standard too high, aach CSC can avail itaolf 
of the safe harbor that the Administration built into its 
proposal. This safe harbor would allow tha CSE to ba da—ad to 
■sat tha slnlaw risk-based capital standard. 

Conclusion 

In conclusion, lat us loam at laaat ona lasson frost 
•pending $200 billion on tba savings and loan debacle — that 
meaningful capital standards, whan tha taxpayar could ba at risk, 
must ba maintained. G5E capital standards must be sufficient to 
aake those enterprises safe to avoid potential risk to tha 
taxpayar. Anything less would ba a failura in our responsibility 
to tha taxpayer. The Administration will not support the 
imposition of capital standards which appear to hava teeth but in 
fact do not provide sufficient protection. 

Mr. Chairman the housing agencies are the largest and most 
visible of the CSEa. The legislation drafted to deal with these 
agencies will set the standards for tha other CSEa. Because 
these OSEs hava established such credible records in the investor 
sarketplaca, wa have the opportunity to demand that they build 
strong enough balance sheets to protect taxpayers and at the sane 
time deliver their services at rates which make mortgagee 
available at raaaonabla cost to homeowners. We do not have to 
choose between protecting the taxpayar and protecting the 
i should not. 

fr any 



xibyOooyle 



1 «M 



l -mi 

lists 



5i 

Si -mi 





Iff! 

l|i!i, 

Illllil ifi iiiilM 



3ijBz,db»Google 



(nan Mr. Glauber* 
Response to Question from Congressman Leach (re 



Is the Treasury prepared to tsll us what kind of additional 
losses too generous treatment of thaaa institutions [Fannie 
Maa and Fraddia Mac] nay hava tor the taxpayer because of 
the federal safety net to whom they compete [thrifts and 
banks]? 



The effect of the housing GSEs on the financial health of 
thrifts and banks is unclear. The secondary nortgage 
Markets probably have reduced the yield on conforming 
mortgagee. An often quoted atudy by Handershott and 
Schilling estimates that Fannie Mae and Fraddia Mac have 
lowered conforming mortgage yields by about 30 basis points. 
Since thrifts and banks are major holdara of whole mortgage 
loans or mortgage -backed securities, thia lowers their 
return on assets, thereby reducing their profitability. 

On the other hand, however, the housing GSEs provide 
substantial benefits to thrifts and banks: (1) secondary 
mortgage markets provide institutions with access to capital 
markets to satisfy increased demand for mortgage credit; (2) 
sales to the secondary mortgage markets lower thrift and 
bank capital requirements — Fannie Kae and Freddie Mac MBS 
receive a 20 percent riak-weight compared to 50 percent for 
whole mortgage loans; (3) the GSEs help thrifts and banks to 
manage risk, particularly credit risk, by helping to 
geographically diversify their mortgage holdings! and (*) 
the secondary mortgage market increases the liquidity of 
bank and thrift assets. 

With offsetting costs and benefits that are largely 
unquant if labia, the impact of the housing GSEs on the 
profitability and future viability of thrifts and banks, and 
therefore the potential costs of Federal aid to troubled 
thrifts and banks, is unclear. 



!£( by Google 



STATHOMT 07 JOKM C. WIICHtlt 

ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR POLICY DEVELOPMENT AMD RESEARCH 

0. I. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AMD 

URBAN DEVELOPMENT 

BEFORE 

THE SUBCOMMITTEE 0* HOUSING AMD COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 

OP TO C0MMITTI1 ON BANKING, FINANCE, AND OXBAM AFFAIRS 

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

JDLT II, 1991 



Mr. Chairman and Iwtiri of tha Suhco—Utt— t I aw. pleased 
to ba hare to diacuss with you today the Administration ' a 
proposal to reform the regulatory structure of tha Fadaral 
Rational Mortgage Association and tha Fadaral How* Loan Mortgage 
Corporation. I will alao i uaaanl on aaa» faatnzaa of tha 
legislation that you introducad on Tuesday, Me. Chairman. 

**■« ■'■"Ufiltratiam'" legislative Proooaal 

On May 21, 1991, tha Administration •ubmittad to tha 
Congress a legislative proposal for furthar ragnlatory raforai of 
rannla Man and Fraddia Mae. HOD believes that thia propoaal 
would Significantly strengthen and improve our regulatory 
authority to ovaraaa Fannla Mas and Fraddia Mac. Tha Government - 
Iponsorad mtarpriaas Safaty and Soundness Act of 1991 would 
aatablish an 'arms-length" offiea within HOD as a safaty and 
soundnaas regulator for Fannla Maa and Fraddia Mac. Tha naw 
offiea would ba called tha Office of Go vemment -Sponsored 
Enterprise Financial Oversight. The Director of tha Offiea will 
ba appointed by tha President with tha advice and consent Of the 
Senate. Ma believe that thia proposal is Clearly preferable to 
tha approach taken by (MO, which would create a 'super-regulator' 



xibyOooyle 



for all of the Oils. The umdoi of the Administration's 
proposal Is that it provides for the primacy of safety and 
soundness regulation of tba QMS, valla taking advantage of HllD's 
expertise In homing and providing for tba necessary coordination 
of program and financial regulation. 

tba Dlxactox would ba authorised to establish required 
capital levels with regulatory powers that beco me increasingly 
stringant aa tba capital aalntainad by tba enterprises falls 
below tba required mi n i m a levels. In addition, tba Director 
would ba authorised to require reports, to conduct examinations, 
to issue cease and desist orders, to r —ovs and suspend directors 
and executive officers, and to I arms o civil money penalties. 
These new regulatory and enforcement powers Mill give HOD tba 
authority needed to ensure tba financial safety and soundness of 
tba Otis. Ma believe that they are important and necessary. 

Mr. Chairman, some analysts have questioned whether HDD can 
ba aa affective, independent regulator. Ma believe that HDD baa 
sufficient stature aa a cabinet level department, with broad 
housing responsibilities, to avoid capture by tba Sfla It 
regulatee. HDD'a achievements over tba laat two years 
denoaetrata that HOD la a vigorous, independent regulator within 
tba powers given to it under currant law. 

Too administration's proposal contains other provisions that 
will impr o v e HDD's regulatory ability. Tba Administration baa 
requested that HUD ba granted tba authority to assess Fannie Maa 
and Freddie Mac for tba full costs of their regulation. However, 
both enterprises opposed Including this authority in tba FT 1912 
HDD appropriations bill, aa proposed in tha Freaident's FT till 



xibyOooyle 



Budget. Because both enterprises are profitable, the Department 
believes that it is fair that they bear tha full costs of 
regulation made necessary by tha apacial ban* fit* thay receive 
from tha Fadaral Government and by tha risks to tha taxpayer 
posed by thatr activities. Tha regulators of othar financial 
institutions and othar GSF.S hava Similar authority. 

>D0 has b— 1 1 planning for annual examinations of Fannie Ma* 
and Fraddia Mac. This nm effort will add significantly to the 
oosta HDD incurs for Its regulatory responsibilities. HDD will 
cover the initial cost of theae axaminationa f rem its research 
funds. On a long tare basis, however, HDD believes these 
legitimate regulatory costs should be charged to Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Nee directly. The Department beliovos that the authority 
to charge the agencies for the full costs of their regulation is 
appropriate and overdue. 

Capital Adequacy 

Without question, capital adequacy is the most important 
issue in effective regulation of GSBs, including Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac . Both Charter Acts give the Secretary of HDD general 
regulatory authority which certainly extends to the safety and 
soundness of these enterprises. In HDD's proposed regulations, 
the Department calls upon this general regulatory authority to 
construct a more effective framework for monitoring capital 
adequacy and imposing capital requirements on Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac. 

A major focus of HDD's regulatory activities during the past 
year has bean the development of financial models for assessing 



xibyOooyle 



the aafety and aoundnesa of Fannie Has and Freddie Mac. Thin 
■odel development haa involved a major reviaion and updating in 
HUD 'a cash flow nodal for Fannie Ha* and an ait amt ion of it to 
Freddie Vac, and it baa alao required a now methodology to 
pro] act prepayment* and forecloauraa, and detailed information on 
mortgage experience fro* tha agencies. Ha believe thia approach 
providaa HDD with a vary uaaful tool for regulatory analyaie, a 
■odal that can project tha lnflowa and outflow of caah that 
raault from any aaaumed aconomic acanario. 

Tha Admin i« trot ion 'a bill would furthar improve HUD'a 
ability to anaura adequate capitalisation. It apacifiaa three 
capital level a and associated aanctiona that would ba impoaed if 
tha agenciaa' capital falla abort of tha apacified lavala. Tha 
two lowar lavala ara calculated by ratioa baaad on tha lavala of 
portfolio aaaata and mortgage baefcad aacurltiaa out a tending, 
roflaetlng tha dif ferencea in riika in thaaa two kind* of 
buainaaaaa. Tha highaat capital level, which atuat ba attained to 
avoid all aanctiona, la datarninad by tha ragulator, baaad on all 
tha riaka bona by tha agencies, aa naaaurad by atraaa taata and 
througb othar analyaaa. Tha Admlniatration'a propoaal would 
parait a ragulatory "aafa harbor' for Fannie Maa and fraddla Mac 
with raapaot to thia highaat capital laval. If, after receiving 
credit ratings from two nationally recogniied statistical sating 
aganclaa, the director were to determine that a Gil merit* the 
highaat investment grade rating, tha GU would be aaasaa to 
•atiafy the highaat ragulatory capital regal raejint for the neat 
y»*r. 



^Google 



Stress testa provide * particularly good mechanism for 
esseasing capital adequacy for credit risks and Interest rate 
rleke because they neogala* differences In riake between 
different line* ef business, different ways of doing business, 
and different economic conditions. Stress teste are a technique 
developed by Moody's to determine the soundness of Mortgage 
insurance firsts. They are particularly useful in assessing 
Fannie Bee and Freddie Mac because these institutions take on 
■any of the sane risks ss private mortgage insurers. The essence 
of the stress test Is to deteraine how a particularly bad 
economic scenario would affect the soundness of e first. Moody's 
uses the experience of housing prices end other variables during 
the Depression for its stress tests. MOD'S analysis is similar 
In many respects to the Moody's model, unlike more rigid 
approaches, such aa fixed capital atandarda, stress testa 
recognlae that different waya of doing business will pose 
different risk* to the agencies. 

Mr. Chairman, one thing la clean the current regulatory 
approach is not sufficient. A capital standard must 
differentiate be t ween the risks associated with portfolio 
operations and the risks associated with aecuritiaation. Both 
Charter Acta tie capital to debt, a practice which totally 
Ignores the risks associated with the large and growing 
aecuritisetlon business conducted by both Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mae. Both Charter Acta Include aubordinetad debt as part 
of the capital required to be held against debt. This ignores 
the fact that the capital markets tend to look at Fannie Mae's 



xibyOooyle 



and Freddie Mac'a agency atotua rather than their financial 
atatua whan pricing aubordlnatad dabt. 

Ttlt BBhBTTttttlT'l freolalatioa 

¥• ar* glad to ■•» that the legislation which you intxoducad 
on Tueaday, Mr. Chairman, has «any features in b o— ob with tba 
AdMiniatration ' a proposal - 

(1) HOD would eentinua to bo tho regulator of Fannie Mae 
and rroddio Mac. 

(2) HDD'* regulatory authorities would bo strengthened. 
HDD would acquire significant now enforcement powora, including 
tho authority to issue cease and desist ordara, appoint 
conservators, require capital restoration plana, raatrict 
dividonda, raatrict growth and «••••* noney panaltiaa fox 
failuraa to roport and comply, 

(3) HDD would acquire tho authority to charge ranni* Mao 
and Proddl* Mac for the coat of tha regulatory office. This 
should be extended to eovor all of RDD'a MX regulatory coata to 
onabla BOD to oparata on tho sane baaia aa other OIK and 
financial rogulatora. 

(4) A eeperate office would be oet up within the Department 
with aole responsibility for aafaty and aoundaeaa regulation of 

PKKA and FHLKC. 

However, in the fundamentally important Batter of capital 
adequacy, we believe that the bill ia inadequate. It retains tho 
Administration's three-level itructure for capital atandarde, but 
it rigidly codif lea tno condition* of atrea* teat Methodology in 
the atetuta. In addition, it weakens the standards to tha point 



agnized by QOOgle 



of ineffectiveness, loth the mi n im u m and the critical capital 
levele ara substantially lower than th* Administration proposed. 
The minimum capital level standard for on-balance- sheet aaaata — 
including the mortgage portfolio — la raducad from 2.3 parcant 
to 1.5 parcant. Tha not effect la that tha win la— capital level 
la raducad by 10 parcant for Praddia Mac and by 25 parcant for 
Pannia Mae, compared to tha Adminiatration'e bill. Tha bill 
would not require any increase in capital to meet tha minimum 
capital levele. Pannia Maa'a currant capital would ba about tha 
can* aa tha regulred capital laval, while Pannia Maa'a currant 
capital would ba 25% above tha ragulrad laval. 

Tha atandarda aat in tha bill would ba a atap in tha wrong 
direction. Mortgagaa bald in portfolio ara aach riskier than 
mortgage-backed securities} thay ara aubjact to intareat-rate 
riafc aa wall aa cradit risk. Marly avary lndapandant analyat 
who haa atudiad tha Gfla agrees that thay ara thinly capitalised, 
and that a higher laval of capital la daairabla. Both Pannia Maa 
and Praddia Mac ara in tha procaaa of increasing thair capital. 

Tha bill provide* •pacific taata to apply to PKttA and PKLMC 
for cradit risk and for interest rata risk to determine risk- 
based capital. H owev er , wa question whether the -particular teats 
•pacified in the bill ara relevant, c omp r e h e n sive and adequately 
eddreaa the possibility of severe economic shocks to the SSIs. 
The leeaon of recent history ia that surprising changes in the 
economic environment do occur. In 1970 no one was forecasting 
that the prima intereat rate would e nc sad 20%i no one imagined 
that tha price of crude oil would anceed 040 a barrel. The 
purpose of capital requirement • for PmVA and PMLMC should be- to 



xibyOooyle 



u» 



provide a cushion to protect against tmn economic conditions 
which in not wyit t ri to happen. The Moody's iumi scenario 
which la applied to private mortgage laaaraoea firms la designed 
with tola la mind. The Moody's depression acanarlo involves a 
401 daellM la noose prleaa, u n aaplayei n t reaching 15% and a SOI 
decline In mortgage intaxaat rataa. Companies axe required to 
survive 10 faaxa to obtain tba highest credit rating. 

These am several problem* presented by tha stress taata 
callad I or la tha bill. The stress taat nndax tba bill would 
require capital to protect against default rataa on a national 
aeala at tba asms savarity aa la tba region with tba highest 
default rata fox a period ax tbraa yaara. Tba e x p er ie nc e la this 
"standard- region would bo assumed to bo mai n tained Cox a yaara. 
Tbaxo ara two ways to iatoxpxat tba langaaga concerning "voxst 
aoxtgaga loaa experience" in tba billt tba tbraa origination 
yaaxa with tba blghoat dafaalt aaparianea ovax tba term ef tba 
aoxtgaga, ox tba tbraa yaaxa daring which tha bighaat paxeant of 
mortgages defaulted, ragardlaaa ef whan tha mort g ages wara 
originated. 

To ran a atxaas taat, it would be na c aaaaxy to Make 
other aignlf leant aaaaaptloae, laclndlag tha rate ef growth ox 
decline In business, the behavior ef intaxaat rataa other than 
tba long tera Txeaeaxy rate and intereat rate apxeada, and the 
of facta ef xaeeaxaa a gr aaaa at a . The bill also requires aaparate 
analyaea ef credit and intereat xleka. Itxeea teeta axe 
generally need to analyae the simultaneous offeeta of several 
assumptions that comprise a oooaiataat econoaic acanaxio. Theaa 
■ore likely aoenariee weald lead to different ef facta on the 



^Google 



anterprlaea than what imu to be contemplated under the bill. 

We would be happy to imIjm tit ef (acta of any fully 
apeelfied ataadaxd that tha committee la lataraatod in, and 
raport tha capital levela that would be required to aeet it. Bat 
we believe tha deaign of atraaa taata ahould ba laft to 
diacration of tha regulator. 

(ten ara othar conearna in addition to tha atraaa taat 
methodology. Tha bill would raquira intaraat xiek capital to 
cover for incraaaaa ox dacraaaaa of tha laaaar of a 50% Chang* in 
intaraat rataa or 500 baala poiata. In tha paat 20 yaara, tha 
mortgage intaraat rata haa varied from 7% to over lit, yet thia 
taat would limit tha atraaa eoaditiona to cover an increase froa 
today'* rata to only about 141. 

To cover management aad oparationa riak, tha bill would 
allow 20% of tha aaount required fox cxadit rlak aad intaraat 
rata riak. Tha damage that can ba dona by management latakaa, 
auch aa inoorraetly playing tha yiald curve, er breakdowna in 
oparationa, ara anraly graatax in potential eeverity than 20% of 
xiaka aaaauxad by changing acononic eeaumptiona, aa illuatxatad 
by tha diffaxing foxtunaa of dlffarant firaa in tha aana fiald 
that ara oftan obeerved. Tha parameter to xalata capital to 
cover aanagaaant and oparationa riaka to capital raguirad for 
cradlt and intaraat rata riaka ahould probably ba highax than 
20%i tha exact' amount ahould ba laft to tha diacxation of tha 
regulator. 

Tha atxaaa paxaaotara aatabliahad in tha bill ara too 
limited to deecribe the •atraaa economic eoaditiona and the kinda 
of ahoeka that the government ahould ba protected againat. A 



xibyOooyle 



10 
■harp drop in bow prices, a* in the Moody's depression scenario, 
a change in tba ift i*d i bat w aa a agency yield* and Treasury 
■ecuritioe and a sharp change la tha alopa of the yiald curve ara 
tha kind* of abocka that should ba toated la stress analysis. 
Moraovar, because o o o no n lff elrcuaataacea can change. It la 
preferable to allow tba regulator to establish appropriato stress 
testa, rather than to praacrlba apaclfle stress pa ram eters la 
legislation. 



Mr. Caalfan, la the lest few years, aew public policy 
coacarna bar* axiaan over tba safety and aonadaaaa of tha Oils. 
Coagraaa baa required five apaclal raporta durlny tan paat two 
yaara treat Treasury, CeO and 610. Hhila tbaaa raporta agree that 
raaala Man and Freddie Mae da not pea* aa imminent thraot of loaa 
to tba Padaxal government, thay alao agree that tbaao Q6la *r* 
thinly capital liad aad tbat currant capital requirement* ara not 
adequate to reflect tba rlaka bora* by rata, and rBLMC. In 
addition, tba raporta agrao that atrongar ragnlatory authority la 
aaadad to oversee tba aganclaa. Itroager authority lacladoa 
greater ability by tba regulator to aot capital standards, 
claarar ragulatory authoritlaa govarniag program approval, 
atrongar anforcaaant powara, aad tha ability of tba regulator to 
charge fox the coat* of regulation. Tba report* differ with 
respect to the appropriate ragulatory structure, bat they agree 
on the fund amenta la of appropriate regulation. Tba 
Adminiatretion's proposal provides the resources aad taa 
authority for affective regulation of Fanaia Ma* and Freddie Mae. 



ibyGoogle 



11 

Mr. Chair— n, thi« C0Npl«t«a wg tutlaony. I will bo glad 
to •mmi «ny gu««tion» you or any of tho —biro of tho 
Subcoamlttoo might novo. 



agnized byGOOgle 



262 

(MR. WEICHER'S RESPONSES TO CHAIRMAN GONZALEZ' QUESTIONS] 

perai 

( 1 ) The 50 percent limit on change* in intaraat 
rat** would prevent HUD from requiring a capital cushion 
sufficient to protect againat tha kind* of intaraat rata 
change* that actually occurred a* recently aa 197S to 
1981. 

(2) Tha language in H.R. 2900 sat* ■pacific 
assumption* for intaraat rata and credit riaka and tha 
■trass teat. Ha would prefer that tha precise 
assumption* be determined by tha regulator. 

(3) Us* of s " depression- like" scenario or Moody'* 
assumptions would b* preferable to the specific language 
in H.R. 2900. 

(4) With regard to the statutory language regarding 
tha amount of capital for operations and management risk, 
an earlier version of Section 201(c)(2) of B.R. 2900 
stated that 20 percent of the amount of regulatory 
capital determined by applying the risk-based capital 
tsst would be added to provide for operations and 
management risks. (The bill reported out by th* House 
Banking Committee raised this percentage to 30 percent . ) 
HOD would suggest that th* regulator be instructed to 
dstemine appropriate additional capital requires ants to 
cover operatlona and management risks, thus wa propose as 
substitute language) 

"(2) MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONS RISK.— To provide for 
management and operations risk, an amount to b* 
determined by th* Director." 



xibyOooyle 



Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Federal Home Loon Mortgage Corporation 



Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development 
Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs 

United States House of Representatives 



3i0!izad byGOOgle 



INTRODUCTION 

Thank you for the opportunity to diacuu the "Government Sponsored Housing 
Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1991' that was introduced 
earlier, this week. I would like to commend Chairman Gonzalez, Ranking 
Minority Member Wylie, and Congreeswoman Boukema (Ranking Minority 
Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development) for 
introducing a bill that recognizes the unique characteristics and risks of 
government-aponBored enterprises and proposes a regulatory structure 
designed specifically for us. 

The proposal recognizes that Freddie Mac is not s bank or thrift -- we neve a 
different mission, take different risks and need a different regulatory 
structure. I am glad that you have made this distinction clear in light of your 
simultaneous focus on the banking bill. I urge you to remember this 
distinction and not allow others to muddy the GSE waters as a result of 
• on tbeb " 



The Subcommittee haa taken a giant step forward in the regulation of GSEs. 
In particular, the Subcommittee has tied the capital requirements to risks 



ana made them stringent enough that the likelihood of a taxpayer bailout is 
extremely remote. You are leaders in understanding that realistic, riak-baaed 
stress tests and msrket-value accounting - not simplistic ratios — are the way 



extremely remote. You are leaders in understanding that realistic, riak-baaed 

stress tests and msrket-value accounting - not I* - ' "" — "~~ — " ~ 

to provide real protection to the U.S. taxpayers. 

After careful review of the proposal, I have a number of comments ~ some 
major substantive comments and some technical comments. I shall discuss 
only my major comments today and shall work with your staff' on technical 
comments. 

I have concerns in seven areas: capital requirements, regulatory discretion, 
appropriate remedies, micromsnagement, examination process, balancing 
mission with safety and soundness, snd the fundamental change in our 
structure suggested by the affordable housing program provisions. 

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS 

Interest-Rate and Credit Risk 



stress test must be applied at least quarterly. It requires Freddie Mac t_ 
have sufficient capital to survive for eight years while experiencing credit 
losses on our entire portfolio equal to those of the nation s worst regional 
experience since World War II. That is currently Texas in the 1980s. 
However, the stress test would automatically become more stringent if a 
._Five years from now the stress 
" tnd in the 1990s. 

The stress test is quite severe. It assumes 27 percent of our high 
loan-to-value mortgagee default. While there is a fair chance that some 
regions of the country will face the economic climate of Texas in the 1980s, 
the probability that the entire country will face such a downturn is quite low. 
Applying this experience to all of Freddie Mac's loans is therefore quite 
conservative. 



!£ ibyG00gle 



On top of conservative assumptions about credit losses, the stress test 
imposes large interest-rate shocks. The atreu teat requires us to have 
sufficient capital to survive interest rates that increase or decrease 
(whichever is worse for the company) by up to 600 basis points and remain at 
that level until the end of the stress test. 

The likelihood that these simultaneous stresses will actually occur is remote 
•t best As a result, Freddie Hac will be required to hold capital at a level 
that the Subcommittee can be assured will never result in a taxpayer bailout. 



method internally since 1987 to evaluate our capital needs. 

My positive comments on the stress test must be tempered by one serious 
concern. There is s technical problem with the language of the proposal that 
causes ambiguity in the calculation of our capital requirement. The goal of 
clarifying the capital standards would be frustrated if this ambiguity is not 
resolved. This can be done by making clear that the credit risk and 
interest-rate risk stresses should be measured on a combined basis. We have 
been discussing this problem with staff and look forward to its favorable 
resolution. 



The proposal also requires an additional amount of capital equal to 20 percent 
of the requirement for interest-rate and credit risk to be held to cover 
management and operations risk. While I believe that it is appropriate to 
include an add-on for management and operations risk, 20 percent is 
excessive. Given the stringency of the stress test, the findings by Standard 
and Poor's Corporation (S&P) and Price Waterhouae about the high quality of 
our operations, and the natural limit on risk that our charter imposes, I 
believe that a 10 percent add-on is more than adequate. 

As an example, under a 10 percent rule, we would have to hold about $300 
million in capital for management and operations risk. Freddie Mac is 
limited to the purchase of residential mortgages. It is a business we have 
been in for over twenty years - and it is a business with well understood 
risks. While certainly there will be costs associated with risks we misjudge, 
these coats will not be on the order of $300 million in one quarter, even under 
a worst-case scenario. Our recent multifamily experience does not even 
remotely approach losses of this magnitude. 

Even worse than the unrealiatic amount of the add-on for management and 
operations risk, the regulator would have the authority to increase it without 
any justification. 



^Google 



REGULATORY DISCRETION 

M a n sg fn w rt and Op w taom MA 

While the stress teat is stringent, it gives me great comfort because of ita 
specificity. When Freddie Mac aeta prices to purchase 30-year mortgages, it ia 
imperative that we know how the regulator will determine the capital 
requirement for these mortgages over the next 30 years. This proposal goes a 
long way toward answering that question. 

Our primary concern with the Treasury proposal for regulating the GSEs was 
that the rules of the game were left completely up to the regulator. That not 
only makes it difficult for us to operate, out also makes it difficult for you to 
exercise your overnight role. 

Unfortunately, much of the good that is done in your proposal by using 
specific stress teats to set capital requirements for credit and interest-rate 
risk may be undone by giving the Director of the Office of Secondary Market 
Examination and Oversight wide latitude to change the capital requirement 
for management and operations risk. The proposal specifies a 20 percent 
add-on but it gives the director unbridled discretion to raiae that percentage 
and, in effect, raise our capital requirement overnight without justifies tion. 
This is unacceptable. 

I understand that there may be some reluctance on the part of some to take 
discretion sway from the regulator. After all, 12,000 banks live with 
regulatory discretion. With only two housing-related GSEs, however, the 
regulations can be tailored to address their specific risks. 

Regulatory discretion certainly did not prevent problems in the thrift and 
banking industries. It may, in fact, have contributed to lax standards. On 
the other hend, discretionary regulation can also lead to excessive capital 
standards. The credit crunch in some markets has been attributed to 
overzealous regulators. 

Further, the top banks in the country, the 12 with at least A+ ratings on their 
subordinated debt, do not have much to worry about from regulators- 
discretion -■ there sre 11,988 weaker banks that would have to be closed first 
before a regulator would go after the better capitalized institutions. Neither 
of the two GSEs has this protection. 



Thirty-year, fixed-rate mortgages may suit the needs of many middle-class 
households. However, very different types of mortgages may be needed to 
open the door to homeownerahip to other segments of our increasingly diverse 
population. By creating a market for new mortgage instruments, Freddie Mac 
meets homebuyers' and renters' needs nationwide. 

Over the years Freddie Mac has not been subject to burdensome prior 
approval requirements by any regulatory agency before offering new 
products. This has allowed us to take advantage of market opportunities on 
an extremely efficient basis. As a result, Freddie Mac has a noteworthy 
record of innovation in housing finance. 



!£ ibyG00gle 



The proposal, unfortunately, incorporates ■ very complicated and cumbersome 
system of bureaucratic involvement in new products. The Secretary of the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) must approve every 
new program, and the Director must set capital requirements for new 
products. 

I believe strongly that we must be able to introduce new programs and 
products without prior regulatory approval, unless we are not adequately 
capitalized. As long as we are adequately capitalized, there is no justification 
for imposing the costs — to Freddie Mac and to homebuyers ■■ of a prior 
approval requirement. 

No public policy purpose is served by s prior approval requirement for a well 
■ ' ' nstitution. "" .. . - i,. .. • . , 

r bousing n 

As far as safety and soundness are concerned, Freddie Mac seta the 
capitalization levels for new products by comparing them to our existing 
products bavins comparable risk. Freddie Mac should be required to notify 
the Director of these products and levels. 

APPROPRIATE REMEDIES 

The proposal allows the Director to downgrade Freddie Msc two enforcement 
levels under certain circumstances. We think that this much discretionary 
downgrading is inappropriate. While in limited circumstances it may be 
appropriate to override the capital requirements, downgrading should be 
limited to one enforcement level. 

Any downgrading should be related to the risk of rapid capital depletion. By 
contrast, basing a downgrading on a decrease in real estate values is 
inappropriate because such risks are already captured in the stress tost. As s 
result, I recommend eliminating from the proposal a decrease in property 
values as a basis for downgrading our enforcement level. 

Another concern I have is that the proposed level at which certain 
enforcement remedies can occur borrow too heavily from the Treasury 
proposal. For example, as of year end we would have failed the minimum 
capital requirement. (We currently meet the requirement.) 

The remedy for failing the minimum capital standard is conservatorship at 
the discretion of the Director. It is patently absurd for an A+ rated company 
to be turned over to the equivalent of the RTC at the option of the regulator. 

The use of a conservatorship, if it is ever appropriate for a GSE, should only 
be considered for a GSE failing its critical capital requirement. The proposal 
allows the Director to be too quick on the trigger. 

M1CROMANAGEMENT 

I fully support enforcement remedies that allow regulatory intervention early 
enough to prevent losses to taxpayers. However, if the GSE has adequate 
capital, regulatory actions should be nonintrusive and should not interfere 
with the day-to-day operations of the company. 



^Google 



My concern is that the proposal mandates intrusion into the business affairs 
of Freddie Mac even when we meet every •ingle capital requirement. In 
particular, the proposal overrides the ability of our Board of Directors to set 
compensation policy — one of the most fundamental roles of a Board of 
Directors. Thin alone could undermine the success of Freddie Hac. 

Top notch directors would be discouraged from serving on our Board because 
they could not control such an essential policy, and top quality management 
could leave. There is no substitute for good management, lying Freddie 
Mac's hands in this area could prove to be very expensive in the long run. If 
we meet all our capital requirements, compensation policy is properly set by 
the shareholders and the Board of Directors. 

EXAMINATION PROCESS 

Good regulations require good people to enforce them. The proposal prohibits 
the Director from using contractors to conduct examinations. I am concerned 



that this will unnecessarily restrict the Director from using the i 

competent personnel for its oversight of GSEs. Freddie Mac is a sophisticated 
financial institution. I believe the Director should be encouraged, not 
prohibited, from drawing on the resources of experienced, professional 
examiners, such ss the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's staff. 

I also strongly believe that private rating agencies hsve an important role to 
play in ensuring safety and soundness of GSEs. They have experience 
evaluating the credit quality of financial institutions. Trillions of dollars in 
securities are priced in the capital markets each day based on rating agencies' 
evaluations of private companies. I believe it is in the taxpayers' interest to 
apply their expertise to GSEs. I do not, however, suggest that ratings replace 
the Director's judgment - only complement it. 

Freddie Mac is willing to be assessed for our fair share of the costs of 
regulatory enforcement. However, I do not want to sign a blank check. There 
should be a mechanism for capping our assessments at a reasonable level. 

BALANCING MISSION WITH SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS 

I am troubled that the balancing process between mission and safety and 
soundness is unclear in the proposal. More clarification is necessary to avoid 
conflict and indecision on precisely how these trade-offs are to be made. The 
proposal does not provide a means for resolving these conflicts, or state 
whether mission fulfillment or safety and soundness concerns are to be 
paramount. One way to avoid these conflicts is to give the Director 
responsibility for both mission and safety and soundness regulation. 



!£ ibyG00gle 



FUNDAMENTAL MISSION OF FREDDIE MAC 

Freddie Mac's 20-year history provides ■ proud record of assisting many 
Americana in their pursuit of affordable housing. The availability of a stable 
" ' 'i all markets through a wide range of products 

country. Our long-standing con 

market that works today — when other sectors are experiencing severe ci 

shortages. 

A large share of Freddie Mac's standard loan programs have always served 
lower-income homeowners and renters. Let me be specific. 



• We purchased 800,000 loans in 1990 alone. 

• We have assisted more than one in eight American families in 
achieving homeownerehip. 

* We have financed over 750,000 affordable rental units. 

* While our loan limit was $187,450 in 1990, the aversge loan we 
purchased was about $87,000. (The nationwide average conventional 
mortgage loan amount was about $100,000.) 



• About 30 percent of the loans Freddie Mac purchased in 1990 were 
affordable by families earning 80 percent of the median income. 

• More than one-half of our multifamily mortgages finance small 
neighborhood developments with fewer than 50 apartments, which are 
among the most difficult to finance in the marketplace. 

We are very awsre that the problem of affordable housing persists for many in 
this country, particularly low- and moderate-income families. For all the 
progress and success, we remain confronted by the formidable challenge to 
provide affordable, quality shelter for all Americans. Freddie Mac's 
commitment to be a partner in helping to alleviate this problem has never 
wavered. 

Over the past 12 months, we have enjoyed considerable success and made 
Significant progress in serving low- and moderate-income households. The 
following represents key highlights. 

• We committed $3 billion through 1992 to low- and moderate-income 
homeownership and rental programs; 

• We committed to purchase $600 million of mortgages originated in 
partnership with Michigan allowing flexible down payments and 
underwriting waivers and providing borrower counseling. 



ibyGoogle 



• We committed to purchase $60 million of mortgages to assist low- end 
modern tc-income union members purchasing their first homes. 

• We committed to purchase $6 million of mortgages that lower both 
downpaymeut and monthly housing costs for low-income residents in 
Greensboro, North Carolina. 

• We committed $100 million to purchase low-income rental housing 
mortgagee. 

• We expanded our equity investments in low-income rental housing to a 
- --'-'- m of $50 million in 1991 and 1992. 



• We commissioned a study to determine if our underwriting guidelines 
make it more difficult for low-income and minority households to obtain 
mortgages, and took immediate actions based on the findings. 

The proposal would have far-reaching impact on how Freddie Mac fulfills our 
mission to serve low-and moderate-income households. Freddie Mac strongly 
supports the retention of the low- and moderate-income housing mandate 
currently in our charter. At the same time, however, I am opposed to 
requirements for any specific program, percentage goals or volume targets. 

Let me speak to two specific issues in the affordable housing provisions I 
believe these provisions fundamentally change the balance between our public 
mission and our ability to use private investment capital to further 
homeowner ship and rental opportunities. 

if Profra 



The first ie the requirement that Freddie Mac provide 20 percent of its 
dividend payments to a rental housing fund. 

This is a triple tax on our dividend payments. We pay 34 percent in taxes on 
the income passed through as dividends, most investors pay 33 percent in 
taxes on dividend payments they receive, and under this proposal we would 
pay an additional 20 percent in taxes on those dividends. That is an 87 
percent tax rate on our dividend payments! 

This triple tax on our dividends will have significant repercussions on our 
ability to access capital markets and to fulfill o 



Freddie Mac relies on funds raised in capital markets to provide financing for 
American homebuyers. By using private funds to conduct our activities, we 
can Accomplish our housing mission without congressional appropriation or 
putting taxpayers at risk. Taking away returns that our shareholders 
expected would impose windfall losses on current shareholders — those that 
purchased the stock after Freddie Mac's restructuring under FIRREA, It 
would also seriously weaken our ability to tap private capital markets in the 

While current shareholders do not have recourse against this increased tax, 
future shareholders do because they have the choice of not investing in 
Freddie Mac. This type of action will lower the vahie of the stock. 



ibyGoogle 



Our investors will reason, and rightly bo, that if Congress expropriates 20 
percent of our dividends today, the likelihood that it will expropriate more 
income tomorrow is greatly increased. The precedent will seriously hamper 
our ability to raise capital. 

I cannot stress enough how significant the costs of this type of action are. 
Equity analysts following our stock base their buy or sell recommendations, in 
part, on this kind of "political risk." Imposing a major, structural change on 
our public/private balance increases this risk substantially, increases our 
coats substantially, and reduces our ability to fulfill our housing mission. 



n Into Pricing Dsciaioi 



public/private balance is the prohibition on increasing any fees or charges as a 
result of the dividend set-aside. HUD would be granted authority to review 
and revise our pricing strategy if the Secretary determines that Freddie Mac 
has increased fees or charges as a result of the set-aside. 

The proposal is attempting to ensure that the costs of the set-aside are borne 
entirely by shareholders. Whether or not this is appropriate, the only way for 
a regulator to enforce it is with massive intervention into our day-to-day 
activities. The Secretary would have to know the intricacies of our pricing 
and risks to accomplish this. Simply at the implementation level, I believe 
this is unworkable. For example, we change prices daily - if not more 
frequently ~ in response to changing market conditions. 



In addition, this provision may create conflicts between the Secretary's 
responsibility to review pricing and the Director's responsibility to assure 
safety and soundness. The Secretary might disallow i 
same time the Director was tr ' 
provision could lead to lower ii 

Finally, and most importantly, I believe this would fundamentally alter the 
structure of Freddie Mac Our management, as guided by our public purpose. 
our charter, and our Board of Directors is in the best position to determine 
how to allocate any cost increases because of low- and moderate-income 
housing programs. We will manage this aspect of our decision-making 
process as all the others: with care, deliberation and a realization of its 
impact on our mission. 

CONCLUSION 

I want to close my testimony with a statement on my personal philosophy on 
affordable housing efforts. This philosophy permeated the development of the 
$3 billion commitment that was approved by our Board, and is the foundation 
upon which our efforts are being built. Let me begin by saying that this 
corporation ~ myself, the president, senior management and the staff - are 
all committed to playing a significant role in affordable housing, beth in terms 
of our leadership as well as in the use of our resources. I think our successes 
in the past year are clear evidence that we are serious about our involvement 
in affordable housing. 



!£ ibyG00gle 



:ht of Freddie Mac allows us the flexibility 



believe congressional oversiat 
ecessary to respond Ui affordable housing Beads in an appropriate n 



^Google 



(FBCM MR. 1ELAND C. 
KSPOISE TO KEF. JOSEPH KWNEDi, II 
Jul; IS, 1991 Housing Subcommittee Bearing 



As you nay know. Congressman Kennedy, Freddie Nme i 
Increase the supply of money which primary mortgage lenders can make 
available to hone buyers nationwide By linking the capital markets 
with mortgage markets. Freddie Mac brings the efficiencies and lower 
costs of the secondary market to the lender and the hcmebuyer It 
accomplishes this mandate by purchasing investment quality mortgages 
from primary lenders packaging the mortgages as securities, and 
selling the securities to investors. As you can see. this has not 
involved housing subsidy-type programs. Tor example, we do not have 
a regular program to purchase FBA or v* loans. 



19o9 required Freddie Mac to specifically 
on of its mortgage purchases to housing for 
renters, but with reasonable economic 



The passage of FIRHBA li 
devote a reasonable porl 

created its Affordable Bousing Initiatives Mil department. The 
at * first task was to develop a framework for tbs 
- long-term commitment to financing low-cost, decant 
□ugh joint partnerships with private, public end 
ictors around the country. 

tment tailors affordable homeowners hip and rental 
oms to (uit the unique character la tic a of each 
ind Freddie Mac's customers - mortgage lenders. Its 

i must be continuously refined to meet changing market 



corporation", 
shelter thro 


housing progr 
marketplace a 

programs also 



Single tmilX 

Freddie Mac's single family activities have Included housing 
partnerships Such as the recently announced Union Member Mortgage 
First Time Bone Buyers Program, through which Freddie Mac is 
committed to purchase «50 mil ion in mortgages to AFL-CIO members. 
Other commitments include the purchase of *5 million in mortgages 
through the Greensboro Initiative and 1500 million through the 
Michigan Initiative. All of these initiatives are based on the 
participation of both the public and private sector, including buyer 
education, down payment subsidies and flexible underwriting. 
dedicated to first time bamebuyers. to make bousing more affordable. 



Freddie Msc 



designin 

needs to address FIBRE* and 
to design the program to fit 
in partnership with local in 



a Targeted Lendei 
that local lendei 
or regional market 



itituticni nationwide. 



Initiative (TL1), 
s have the best 
. and respond to their 
Freddie Mac expects 
"Chase mortgages 



,db»GoogIc 



rreddie Mac ii implementing a *100 million transaction "ith the 
Local Initiative* Managed asiet* Corporation (LIMAC), a national 
non-profit organisation and subsidiary of Local Initiative* Support 
Corporation (LISC), to purchase a 1100 million tax credit eligible 
for low-lncone rental mortgage*. Ttal* transection we* completed in 
June and is a two-year national program. ' LIMAC will provide special 
mortgage review and an underwriting service to help Freddie Nac with 
this activity. 

Freddie Nac is alio expanding it* participation in the purchase of 

ing tan credit*. Maintaining a priority in purchases 
ated by non-profit organisation* such as the Chicago 
SC and Enterprise ahould help Freddie Mac double it* 
in 1991. The Mil department 1* alio working with Freddie 
l estate owned (RED) staff to assure that a percentaga of 
ic'i Hew York end Atlanta stock is purchased by non-profits 
or owner* dedicated to low-income occupancy. 

*b its affordable housing programs develop, Freddie Mac will try to 
increasingly use the guidelines available through recent legislation 
to create programs which better combine public and private resource* 
to meet it* affordable homing goals. Hhile this doe* not currently 
involve program* like HOPE, BOHE, ate, Freddie Mac 1* optimistic 
that its recently announced comitment to leverage (3 billion in 
affordable homing over the next three year* can include deal* 
Involving these programs 



low -Income houj 
with fund* ope: 
Equity Fund, L 



Freddie Mi 



3i£j!ized byGOOgle 



TMTIKOMT 07 



JOLT It, 1»1 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the opportunity to appear 
before you again to discuss the best, way to modernize the capital 
requirements and oversight of Fannie Mae to protect taxpayers while 
maintaining — and further enhancing — Fannie Mae's ability to 
serve housing. And I most particularly appreciate the opportunity 
to congratulate you on the introduction of II. R. 2900, your 
thoughtful and wall-crafted proposal, co-sponsored by Mrs. Roukema 
and Mr. Wylie. 



II. H. 2900 is an outstanding contribution in a number of i 
First, it would establish for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac a risk- 
based capital standard that is the most modern, progressive, 
analytically correct standard in any legislative or regulatory 
capital regime. Second, by specifying the parameters of that 
standard, the bill takes a stand and makes the absolutely critical 
policy decision of just how risk and housing should be balanced. 
Finally, the bill sets in place a regulatory oversight, supervision 
and enforcement regime that is strong, yet sensible, and for the 
most part reinforces the genius of Congress ' s 1968 decision to naka 
Fannie Mae a private company with privat* market management and 



xibyOooyle 



incentives, we are vary pleased with many of the key provisions of 
the proposed legislation. 

When I last appeared before you in late May, Treasury had just 
delivered its draft bill. I described to you at that tine my 
concerns with that bill. I as very pleased that many of the 
specific issues we raised have been creatively and effectively 
addressed in H.R. 2900. 

In four areas in particular, H.R. 2900 is a vast improvement over 
the Treasury bill. The first I have already sentioned: instead of 
the open-ended regulator discretion of the Treasury bill, H.R. 2900 
establishes a specific capital standard. Second, the risk-based 
capital standard in H.R. 2900 is a complete and specific stress 
test, not sinply a list of risks that the company Must capitalize 
for, as in the Treasury bill. The test is dynamic, it will be a 
leading indicator of potential problems. For example, if interest 
rates rise in a quarter, the interest rate requirement will be 
recalculated, end more capital potentially required; the same if 
rates fall. If the increase in home prices slows down, more 
capital will be required for credit risk. If the cospany takes 
more interest rate risk by, for example, increasing its duration 
gap, sore capital will be required. If riskier loans are 
purchased, more capital will also be required. 



xibyOooyle 



Third, H.R. 2900 provides Cor appropriate regulatory structure. 
Professional and competent oversight is essential if both taxpayers 
and housing are to benefit from the new regime. Unlike the 
Treasury bill, H.R. 2900 makes this a real possibility by 
authorizing hiring outside Civil Service limits. Fourth, the 
supervisory and enforcement powers in H.R. 2900 are specifically 
geared to the nature, scope, and unique position of Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac and, unlike the Treasury bill, are not simply a cut- 
arid-paste version of Treasury's bank reform proposal. 

Within the context of this very favorable reaction, I want to call 
the attention of the Committee to four areas that cause us concern: 
(i) section 201(a) (3) , which gives the capital regulator open-ended 
discretion to increase the capital requirement for management and 
operations risk over and above that already imbedded in the credit 
and interest rate risk stress tests; (ii) sections 3(6), 121(f), 
121 (k), and 201(a)(4) which, combined, could have a paralyzing 
effect on product innovation, even by a well-capitalized company; 
(iii) section 121(k) which, by targeting a percentage of dividends 
for the purposs of making contributions to low-income rental 
housing, could reduce Fannie Mae's effectiveness in multifamily 
housing as wall as undermine investor confidence; and section 
121(e), which would destroy the ability of Fannie Mae's Board of 
Directors to recruit and retain the best managers for one of the 
largest financial institutions in the world. 



xibyOooyle 



He strongly urge the Subcommittee to delete the clause In section 
201(a) (3) that would allow the Director to increase or decrease the 
Management and operations risk requirement from the requirement of 
20% of interest rate and credit risk capital — about $800 million 
currently for Fannie Mae — stated in the bill. This open-ended 
discretion undermines the certainty of the credit and interest rate 
risk stress tests, and is a serious mistake for three reasons: (i) 
the amount in the bill is sore than enough to cover the type of 
management risks it is possible to capitalize against; (ii) if the 
risk-based capital level Is left open-ended, Fannie Mae will have 
difficulty managing our business so we can meet both our 
responsibilities to housing and our capital requirements; and (iii) 
it allows the regulator to undercut the choices made in the credit 
and interest rate risk sections. 

Our second area of concern arises out of two provisions that would 
require the prior approval of two parts of HUD with conflicting 
mandates before Fannie Mae could undertake any new product or 
program. Moreover, those provisions interact with a third, under 
which the Secretary would be required to require a portion of 
Fannie Mae's business to be for low- and moderate -income housing, 
in a manner that could lead to total paralysis. To maintain Fannie 
Mae as a strong, innovative, flexible, private -market provider of 
housing finance for all, these well-intentioned provisions must be 
modified. They are unnecessary for a properly capitalised company. 



xibyOooyle 



Let's take an example from recent months. In March, I announced a 
mow mortgage called the 3/2 Option, which features a lower down 
paynnnt on the part of the home buyer, coupled with deeper mortgage 
insurance to protect Fannie Hae from excessive risk. Since March, 
approximately 8500 families have purchased houses using the 3/2 
Option, almost all families that have never had homes before and 
had previously been unable to afford one. He are proud of that 
success. We intend to continue to do more. But the prior approval 
sections of H.R. 2900 would have required the program to be 
approved by both the Secretary — no longer concerned about 
financial risk — and the Director — with no concern about the 
■lesion. I do not think it is unfair to HUD to suggest that no 
families would have 3/2 Option mortgages today if multiple 
approvals had been required. 

Section 121(k) of the bill would require that 20% of Fannie Mae ( s 
dividend payments be contributed for acquisition, construction and 
rehabilitation of low-income rental housing. Fannie Mae 
wholeheartedly supports, in both word and deed, the goal of doing 
■ore for low- income rental housing. As drafted, however, this 
provision is a serious mistake and, in our opinion, should be 
deleted. 

He currently serve 1 million families in mult if ami ly housing under 
our standard and FHA programs; in 1990, we financed over 104,000 



xibyOooyle 



rental units. Approximately 80% of the households served have 
incomes below 80% of the median, in some places — Baltimore for 
one — the average unit is affordable to those with less than 50% 
of median income. These are the types of programs in which Fannie 
Mae excels, the types of programs that use our strength to tap the 
capital markets to help those in greatest need. 

He are now focused on expanding our efforts to serve those with the 
greatest need. By making investments that support low- income 
housing on terms that could not be accomodated under standard 
programs or even our special low- and Moderate- income programs — 
such as "gap" financing, and p redevelopment capital — we will be 
able to expand our reach to aore low-incoaa tenants. 

Section 121<Jc) of the Bill, with the 20% contribution requirement 
for low-income rental housing, not only would put Fannie Mae into 
the subsidy rather than the financing business, but by penalizing 
shareholders would harm our ability to serve the entire housing 
market. That is not the way to get the best from Fannie Mae or 
Freddie Mac. 

Finally, it is essential that section 121(e) of the Bill be 
substantially amended. As drafted, that section would limit 
compensation of Fannie Has management to that of Freddie Mac 
Management as of July l, 1991. This provision would totally 



xibyOooyle 



undercut the Fannie Mae Board of Directors' ability t 
retain the best people to run a $400 billion company safely and 
profitably while accomplishing our housing mission. The Fannie Has 
Board of Directors has long followed the " principles of 
comparability of pay with payment for similar functions at similar 
corporations, pay for performance, and no pay for non-performance. 

In Kay, I was able to bring you quickly up to date on both Fannie 
Mae's sound financial condition and our impact on housing, for 
those all across the income spectrum. Since that time: 

o we reported our fourteenth quarter of record earnings; 

o capital reached $5.6 billion, including 9650 million of 
loan loss reserves, meaning that for the first time (and 
including the loss reserves) , we meet the taxpayer 
protection capital standards we developed with Paul 
Volcker and announced well over a year ago; 

o we announced our intention to purchase up to S2 billion 
in FHA- insured reverse annuity mortgages (HECKs) , 
serving 25,000 elderly households, and a $100 million 
demonstration program in partnership with the Farmers 
Home Administration to make mortgage credit more 



xibyOooyle 



available to low- and Moderate- incose households in 
rural areas; 

o our standard business reached record volumes. In the 
first six months of the year, we purchased sore than $16 
billion of Mortgages and securitized an Additional $45 
billion. 

Fannie Hoe is working very well for housing and for the American 
people. 

H.R. 2900 is a major contribution to asking certain that Fannie Mae 
continues this record of success. We look forward to working with 
you, Mr. Chairman, and the rest of the cossittee, to Bake it even 
better. 

Thank you for your attention. I would be pleased to respond to any 
questions . 



xibyOooyle 



Response by James Johnson, CEO, Fannie Mae to question regarding 
specifics on Fannie Mae's low- and node rate -income housing 
initiatives by Representative Joseph Kennedy during Housing 
Subcommittee hearing July 18 on GSEs. 



Fannie Mae has developed some very specific programs under the $10 
billion plan announced In February. Our goal is to produce $10 
billion in commitments Cor low- -and mode rate- income housing and 
special needs housing by July of 1993, and turn these commitments 
into deliveries by the end of 1994. 

Fannie Mae's pledge to affordable housing covers a wide spectrum 
of programs serving diverse housing needs. The products include 
both single-family and multifamily housing finance, as well as 
housing preservation. A number of the specific programs developed 
thus far are described below: 

o fbha Guaranteed Rural Housing loan Program 

This program was introduced in June 1991. Thus far, we have 

$21 million in commitments serving 10 states. Under the 
program, the Farmers Home Administration will guarantee 
30-year fixed-rate mortgages in rural areas made by approved 
lenders under its Guaranteed Rural Housing Loan Program. The 
program will guarantee loans with and without interest 
assistance to borrowers at or below 100 percent of local 
median income as defined by HUD. Losses up to 90 percent of 
the original loan amount will be guaranteed by FmHA. FmHA 
will guarantee $100 million in loans under this program 
during the current fiscal year. 

o Hose Equity Conversion Mortgage (hecm) 

We recently expanded our participation in the FHA-insured, 
Home Equity Conversion Mortgage (HECM) program. As of June 
1991, we had $41 million in commitments under this program. 
FHA will insure 25,000 home equity conversion mortgages. 
This mortgage program enables older homeowners to convert the 
equity they have in their hones into cash using a variety of 
payment options to address their specific financial needs. 
UnliKe a traditional home equity loan, a borrower does not 
qualify on the basis of income but on the value of his or her 
home. The loan does not have to be repaid until the 
homeowner moves, sells or refinances the property, or dies. 
At that time, the amount to be paid will equal the lesser of 
the loan balance or the appraised value of the home. 

o Seniors Bousing Opportunities (Sho) 

SHO is an ongoing $100 million demonstration project designed 
to test several approaches to seniors' housing (Accessory 
apartments — apartments included in a single-family home; 
ECHO housing — temporary units built on a family member's 
property; Homesharing — the sharing of a one-to-four family 
home by two or more adults; and Sale-leaseback — the sale of 
a home to an investor who then rents it back to the seller) . 
The ideas that work in this demonstration will be 
incorporated into Fannie Mae's standard mortgage products. 



xi*, Google 



Magnet (sm) Employer-Assisted Housing 

In early April 1991, we introduced the Magnet 
Employer- Assisted Housing products and already have $342 
million in commitments as of June 1991. The high cost of 
housing in some areas has made it difficult for Many 
employees to find affordable housing near their place of 
employment. Employers in these areas have found that the 
lack of affordable housing undermines their efforts to 
attract and retain qualified employees. As a result, we have 
developed a number of specific products that can be used by 
employers to help their employees by providing funds for down 
payments, closing costs, or monthly housing expenses. Magnet 
provides two basic housing products — Magnet 5 (sm) and 
Magnet 3/2 (sm) . Magnet 5 is designed to assist employees of 
any income level. Magnet 3/2 is targeted to low-and 
moderate -income employees who havs difficulty accumulating 
the minimum down payment and whose income is below 115 
percent of area median income as defined by HUD. This 
product allows borrowers to contribute only 3 percent towards 
the required down payment, with employers providing the 
remaining 2 percent in the form of a grant or unsecured loan. 

Community Lending Programs 

Fannie Mae, in cooperation with housing providers, offers six 
community lending mortgage products designed to help low-and 
mode rate -income families purchase homes. These lending 
models, which include Subsidized Second Mortgages, Community 
Home Buyer's Program, Community Home Improvement Mortgage 
Loans, Community Land Trust Mortgage Loans, and HUD Urban 
Homesteading Demonstration, were developed to meet the widest 
variety of needs of low-and moderate-income home buyers. As 
of July, 1991, Fannie Mae had over $2 billion in commitments 
for these community lending programs. 

In March, 1991, we enhanced the Community Home Buyer's 
program with a new 3/2 option. Under the CHBP, Fannie will 
purchase or securitize 15- and 30-year fixed-rate mortgages 
insured by private mortgage insurers. Loan-to-value ratios 
may be as high as 95 percent. The 3/2 option allows home 
buyers to meet the minimum 5 percent down payment requirement 
with a minimum 3 percent contribution from their personal 
resources and up to 2 percent in the form of a gift from a 
family member or grant or unsecured loan from a nonprofit or 
public entity. 

Public Finance Programs 

We are also working directly with state and local housing 
finance agencies (hfas) to reduce the cost of mortgages that 
are financed with mortgage revenue bonds (MRBs) and to help 
HPAs Increase the supply of low-and moderate-income housing 
in their jurisdictions. By selling MRBs directly to us, HPAs 
can reduce their borrowing costs and make mortgage financing 
available to first-time home buyers at lower costs than 
would otherwise be possible. 



,db»GoogIc 



275 



As part of 'our $10 billion affordable housing initiative, our 
goal is to purchase $1.5 billion in new MRBs by the end of 
1992. In the first sin aonthe of 1991, we purchased $231 
Million in MRBs. 

o Tax Credit Equity Investmenta 

In response to a growing shortage of rental housing, Fannie 
Hae invests equity in low- income rental housing that 
qualifies under the federal tax credit program, originally 
authorized by Congress in 1986. Since the program's 
inception, we have committed to invest over $170 million 1 -, 
representing over 9000 affordable units in 22 states and the 
District of Columbia. This makes Fannie Mae the largest 
single corporate investor to date. We have pledged to 
increase our investments by more than $150 Million over the 
next two years. These investments include responses to some 
of the toughest problems in housing: permanent housing for 
the formerly homeless, affordable housing for single men and 
women working for minimum wages, adequate housing to replace 
substandard housing in rural areas, and housing for large 
families. 

During the hearing. Representative Kennedy also asked for our 
comments on programs that will require private financing over the 
course of the next several years (e.g., FIRREA-mandated housing, 
expiring use, HOPE, HOME, Federal Home Loan Bank Board mandated 
housing and others) . Some of our efforts in these areas include: 

o Fannie Rae Affordables 

In direct response to the FIRREA legislation, we developed an 
MBS product for members of the Federal Home Loan Banks 
(FHLBs) in coordination with the 12 FHLBs. The program, 
called Fannie Mae Affordable, allows members of the FHLBs to 
pool special be low -market rate home loans originated for 
low-ami node rate -income families. Fannie Mae Affordables are 
pools of 15- and 30-year fixed-rate mortgages funded with 
Federal Home Loan Bank advances or direct subsidies Issued 
undsr the two FIRREA mandated programs — the Affordable 
Housing program (AHP) and the Community Investment Program 
(CIP) . As of June, 1991, Fannie Mae had commitments for 
about $20 million in loans to lower income home buyers and we 
are working with lenders on another $40 million in these 
loans using this program. 

o Preservation of "expiring use" bousing 

Fannie Mae holds the mortgages on a large percentage of 
federally assisted "expiring use" projects at risk of 
prepayment and conversion to market rate housing. We hope to 
play a major role in helping to preserve this housing as 
affordable. Fannie Mae will participate in financing 
preservation transactions through the purchase of section 241 
second mortgages, on the purchase of the bonds which back 
section 241 loans. We will also expand our support of 
nonprofit groups to help them assume ownership of threatened 
projects. 



xi*, Google 



RTC Affordable Houaing Program 

Fannie Has has actively worked with the RTC in leveraging 
their funds for affordable housing. He are working with the 
RTC in financing sing in- family properties under their 
Affordable Housing Disposition Program. He have purchased a 
total of $123 Billion in mortgage revenue bonds from the 
Florida Housing Finance Agency, Louisiana Housing Finance 
Agency, Mississippi Home Corporation, Oklahoma Housing 
Finance Agency, and Texas Housing Agency to finance 
approximately 2 , BOO properties in RTC's affordable houaing 
inventory. Secondly, wa created a new method for financing 
RTC -owned condominiums that will allow previously 
investor- owned units to be sold to low- and moderate" income 
owne r/ occupants . We negotiated the first sales for about 25 
units in a 108 -unit condominium in Maryland with several 
hundred more units in the pipeline in Arizona. The RTC is 
providing a second mortgage for these transactions equal to 
20 percent of the sales price. 

On the mult i family side, our Southwestern Regional Office is 
conducting a pilot study to evaluate the feasibility of our 
purchasing first mortgage loans originated by our lenders to 
finance properties sold under RTC's Multifamily Affordable 
Housing Disposition Program. 

Other Program! Initiatives 

Fannie Mae plans to work with HUD and state and local 
governments implementing the programs of the National 
Affordable Housing Act of 1990, in particular, HOPE and 
HOME. This includes both single-family and multifamily 
components that may be linked to the programs described 
earlier, especially those in the coMmunity lending area. 



xibyOooyle 



APPENDIX 



July 19, 1991 



3ijBz,db»Google 



OPENING STATEMENT 

CHAIRMAN HENRY B. GONZALEZ 

JULY 19, 1991 



Today the Subcommittee reconvenes to consider the testinony of 
additional tfitneaaes on H. R. 2900. I welcome theae witnesses here 
today. 



!£ ibyG00gle 



DANIEL F. EVANS, JR. 

CHAIRMAN 

FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE BOARD 



JULY 11, 1991 



-...^jbyGooyle 



Introduction 

On behalf of the Federal Housing Finance Board (Financa Board), 
I am pleased to submit thla statement on the Federal Home Loan 
Bank (FHLBank) System and the recent studies on Government - 
Sponaorad Enterprises (GSEs). Our statement focuaaa on the 
role of the FHLBank System, ita aafaty and soundness, the steps 
the Financa Board is taking to ensure the FHLBank System's 
continued strength and our vision of ita future as a partner 
for housing and housing lenders. 

Frost our perspective, thla hearing la about two leanest (1) 
the risk to the Government frca the operations of GSBs; and (2) 
housing policy and the GSBs' role in fulfilling that policy. 
The Finance Board's message to the Committee ie also twofold- 
First, and moat importantly, the FHLBank System la safe, Sound, 
well capitalised and conservatively managed. It la truly, aa 
Standard and Poor'a Corporation has found, a AAA investment for 
the Federal Government. 



xibyOooyle 



Secondly, while the FHLBank Syetsst It safe, it is undergoing 
its own post-FIRREA transition and ia being artificially 
constrained in ita ability to serve the homing goals shared by 
this Committee and the Finance Board. The System's traditional 
thrift membership baaa ia declining aa the RTC marges, 
consolidates and liquidates imolvant institutions, much of 
whoau deposit baaa ia being purchased by commercial banks. 
While FIRREA appropriately opened up the FHLBank Syataa for 
80— art lal bank membership, it created unnacaaaary roatrictiona 
to their joining the System. This haa adversely impactad the 
FHLBank System's public purpoie, ainca commercial banka now 
originate over 40 percent of all mortgages. At thu same time, 
the currant atructura ia unfair to the System's existing thrift 
members, which are mandatory, ainca commercial banka are free 
to withdraw froa the Syatea at will. Thes« membership rules 
should be equalized. 

Alao, froa a housing policy standpoint, the disparity batwaan 
tba capital structures of the three housing GSBa la undermining 
the FHLBank System's ability to serve portfolio landers. As 
stated by the Congraaaional Budget Office (CBO) in its report. 

'Setting comparable federal capital requirements 
for these three GSEs would eliminate the disparity 
in the implicit federal support that each provides 
to the landers they serve. It would increase the 
profitability of thrift! and other lenders that use 
FHLB advances and would be a step toward enabling 
them to compete on an equal footing with Fannie Haa 



xibyOooyle 



and Freddie Mac in the market for financing 
conventional mortgages." ( Controlling the Risks of 
Sownm nt-Sponaorad Enterprlsae . CBO. April 1991, 
P. «7) 

These are important questions that naad to ba addressed in a 
comprehensive approach to GSE issues. Timely action will 
enhance the System's ability to retain ita AAA standing, aa 
aall aa continue ita contributions to the thrift resolution 
procaae, while fulfilling its Important role in our nation's 
housing policy. 

tha FH LBank S ysteai Posaa virtually Wo Risk to the Government 

The recent GSE reports accurately portray the strong capital, 
high credit quality, conservative management and low-risk 
profile of the FHLBenks. Baaed on these findings, the reports 
com to the same conclusion about the safety and soundness of 
tha FHLBank System it poses virtually no risk to the 
tTi mi ■ 1 1 lain 1 1 

The safety and soundness of tha FHLBank System ia beat 
suBBarised by three facta, each of which was noted in the GSE 
reportst (1) Standard s Poor's has provided the FHLBank Syatesi 
with a AAA rating exclusive of its agency statue, several 
levels higher than any other housing GSE] (2) tha FHLBank 
System has never suffered a credit lose on ita advances in 



xibyGooyle 



ita 60 yoari of operation! and (3) thu FHLBonk System: has a 
capita 1-to-asaet ratio of eeven percent. Th««o achievements 
reflect tha combination of the high credit quality and low 
Interact rata risk of tha FHLBanka . 

Tha FULBank System'* collateral landing practicaa are also an 
important contributor to ita excellent credit atanding. Dnlika 
Mortgage guarantora, auch aa Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, if tha 
vain* of the FHLBanka' mortgage collateral decline*, or tha 
health of tha borrower deteriorate*, the FHLBanka can require 
additional collateral. Thia greatly reduces tha riak to the 
System and therefore to the taxpayers. Furthermore, aa pointed 
out in the GSE studies, the System's aeaeta and liability are 
iiell-aatched. 

The Finance Board agrees with the aafety and soundneaB 
conclnsiona In the GSE reports. In fact, aa pointed out by tha 
CBO, the FHLBonk System may actually be overcapitalised in 
relation to ita low-risk profile. Tttn System' a seven percent 
capital ratio dwarf i those of other GSBa. It alao may be 
limiting the Syataai'a ability to serve, housing finance. 



xibyGooyle 



The Finance Board ib K Strong And Independent Regulator 

The CSE reports also reflect the seriousness with which the 
Finance Board has undertaken its safety and soundness Mission. 
He believe the Finance Board ia providing the type of strong 
oversight that Congress envisioned in FiRRRA. Oux actions 
include the types of recoasBandations in the new GSB reports i 
onsite examination, offsite monitoring and comprehensive 
regulatory policies. Together, these actions provide a higher 
level of contort to the Federal Government than previous 
practices. Moreover, our authorities are similar to those 
proposed in the reports for CSB regulators generally. Thue, w« 
believe that, in many ways, the Finance Board can serve as a 
model for much of what Congress seeks to accomplish in thia 



A. Onsite Examination 

The Finance Board has commenced annual onsite examinations of 
the FHLBanke, something that had not been done for several 
decades. These examinations address each FKLBank'a internal 
controls, management, operational issues (e.g., collateral 
adequacy and valuation), and other FHLBank activities 
full compliance with all statutory, regulatory, and policy 



xibyOooyle 



The«e examinations Bra in addition to the internal and external 
audit activities of the FHLBanks. Each FHLBank has an internal 
audit staff that reports directly to the Audit Coranitt.eu of its 
local Board of Directors. The Finance Board receives copies of 
all internal audit staff reports and the quality of each 
staff's performance is reviewed as part of our examination 

Bach year, the Finance Board also contracts for an external 
audit of the FHLBanks . This audit is pert oimed by an 
independent accounting firm. 

B. Qffaite Monitoring 

Onsite examination is only part of the overall Monitoring 
conducted fay the Finance Board. Tha Finance Board receives 
monthly balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow 
statements from each FHLBank. Unlike many financial ' 
regulators, the Finance Board's reports are usually available 
within tea weeks after the end of a month. The Finance Board 
also maintains detailed information. on the FHLBanks' 
investments and monitors the financial condition of FHLBank 
members. In addition, the Finance Board approves annual 
budgets and receives quarterly budget reports analysing 



xibyOooyle 



difference! between each FHLBank's budget and actual Income and 
expenses. These latter reports assist the Financa Board in 
evaluating tna efficiency with which the FHLBanka carry out 
their homing finance mission. 

C. Comprehensive KogulatorY Policies 

The Financa Board la wall on iti way to a comprehensive 
revision of policies associated with the financial safety and 
soundness of the FHLBanka. Our goal ia to enaure that the 
policiea we aatabliah for the FHLBank System limit risks and 
recognise and anticipate changea in the financial markets . 

For example, while previous investment policiea ware already 
quite restrictive, the Finance Board recently revised these 
policies to broaden their coverage to include all on- and 
off-balance sheet activities, aa recommended by the GSE 
reports. This revised Financial Management Policy limits 
FHLBank investments to high quality, ahort-tern Traaaury, 
agency, and eon ey -market instruments. Investments in 
mortgage-backed securities are limited to "AAA" and agency 
securities, and are limited also aa to amount. To the extent 
that this inveetaant authority ia an expansion of previous 
policy, there is a two year sunset data on that expanaion. 
moreover, for the firat time, the Financial Management Policy 



Kit* Google 



limits tho amount of w w wwd credit that the FHLBanks Hay 
extend to any given counterparty. - The amount of credit is 
linked to the counterparty's credit rating and capital level. 
lb* policy alao establishes, again for the first time, abaoluta 
limits on ttw amount of interest rata riak tho FHLBanks My 
undertake, these limits all bat guarantee that tho FHLBanks 
will not be bipai by unexpected movements in interest ratea. 

Tin Finance Board ia alao reviewing the capital and dividend 
policies for the FBLBankB to ensure that these policies 
facilitate the acceapllahaent of the FHLBank housing aisslon in 
a safe and sound manner. 

Regarding regulatory authority, we recognise that the Finance 
Beard has broader authority than that of some other regulators. 
This authority was provided to the Finance Board in recognition 
of the joint and several liability of the twelve FHLBanka. 
That liability requires strong and coordinated oversight of the 
FHLBanka to ensure that possible weaknesses in one FHLBank do 
not impact the health of the other FHLBanks or the System. It 
also allows the Finance Board to ensure that the FHLBanks carry 
out their statutory housing mission in a safe, sound and 
efficient sanner. 



xibyOooyle 



Regarding regulatory structure, we have questions aa to tha 
benefits to be gained by the mw superregulntor that the 
General Accounting Office (GAD) racosnands creating. Wa 
believe that t)M currant regulatory atmctmra works wall and 
proridaa valuable Syataanride direction beyond that which la 
poasibla at tha individual FHLBank level. Ma believe that 
continued stability for tha Syataai ia important at thla tljaa. 

Tha FHLBanks' Rola In Homing Finance 

Bona lug financa ho» evolved significantly ovar tha laat 
20 years, particularly with tha development of active aacondary 
markets in some mortgage instruments. These markets have lad 
to an increased rola for Fannie Ma* and Fceddie Mac, tha two 
GBIa that focua oa aacondary market activities 

Tha FHLBanks also play an important role in housing finance, 
although dlffarant from aithar Fannia Ma* or Freddie Mac. 
Tha FHiaanka facilitate housing f inane* by financing tha 
origination and holding of mortgage loans and mortgage 
securities at depository institutions. Fannia Ma* and 
Freddie Mac facilitate housing finance by purchasing and 
pooling conforming mortgages, than guaranteeing securities 
backed by tha mortgage pool*. Both rola* are important for 
boosing. 



xibyOooyle 



a. IBttMi Funding 

Through thoir advance prograaa, the PHLBanka provide aaaber 
institutions with cash to originate and fund wort gaga loan*. 
Maahir institutions that borrow fro* tha PHLBanka directly 
benefit from the PHLBanka' AAA credit rating. The PHLBanka' 
strong capital base and conservative risk profile enable 
PHLBanka to access the capital Markets on favorable 
terms — often a« little aa 10 to 15 basis points above Treasury 
securities of conparable Maturity*- and to paaa on this funding 
advantage to their naaber institutions . This directly benefits 
■any of the nation's hoaabuvera since the PHLBanke' funding 
advantage tranalatea to readily available and conpetitive 
Mortgage financing. 

By providing a funding —chanl— i for all types of residential 
mortgage loans hold In portfolio, FHLBank advances snpport 
various typea of Mortgage assets that are not readily 
securitised, including a variety of adjustable rata Mortgages 
and Many Mwltifamily Mortgages. The flexibility provided by 
PaXBank advances thereby facilitates housing finance for 
sector* that often do not lend tbaawialvea to tha 
standardisation ragui r — a n te of the secondary Market, including 
Mortgage loans for low- and Moderate- incoaa housing. 



ibyGoogle 



Thtt FHLBank System advances also serve as an important source 
of liquidity to member institutions. Mar* access to the 
System, even if rarely used, reduces the amount of relatively 
low-yl«lding liquid assets a member would otherwise naad to 
hold. This enhances —bar profitability. It also permits 
—bag institutions' excess funds to be channeled into housing, 
furthering the public purpose of the System. Furthermore , by 
serving ae a liquidity source for mmmbar institutions, the 
FHLBonka help maintain the integrity of tha deposit insurance 



Asset/Liability 



In addition to their funding and liquidity functions, the 
FHLBanks offer products that assist their members in 
asset/liability Management. FHLBank advancaa can be matched to 
the maturity characteristics Of mortgages, offering « simple 
and straightforward method of asset liability management. This 
helps members avoid tha safety and soundness problems 
associated with Maturity Mismatches. 



xibyOooyle 



Alternatively, Mbn institutions can enter Into hanging 
arrangements directly with tho PHUanks or obtain a letter of 
credit from the PHLBanks to support hedging transaction* with 
third parties. With the expected introduction of interest rate 
rlak capital guidelines, accaaa to the FHLBanks will become 
■ore important to portfolio lendara. 

D. Community Lending Activities 

Through the uaa of the FRLBank System's Affordable Housing 
Program (AHP) and Community Investment Program (CIP), lendera 
can combine the Syatem'B mortgage financing benefit! with 
programs affordable to low- and moderate- income group*. These 
program* allow the PHLBenk System to facilitate affordable 
rental housing and hone ownership. The CIP fundi also can be 
used for economic development activities that benefit low- and 
moderate-Income neighborhoods. 

During 1990, a total of S9S applications were received for the 
AHP program, requesting a total of nearly 1284 million in 
subsidies. 383 applications we r e appro v ed for funding. The 
program funds were highly leveraged. The average unit had a 
development coat of $47,800 and an AHP subsidy of 13,230, 
yielding a leverage ratio of 14.7 to 1. Two-thirds of these 
are rental units. Over half the units are for very low-income 
households, and one-quarter of the very low-income households 
served by the AHP program will be able to purchase their homes. 



xibyOooyle 



Moreover, tlM FHLBank System furthers the public policy goals 
of the Community Reinvestment Act (CMA) by ensuring that 
mortgage liquidity la always available for i i— mill j landing, 
rogardlaaa of tha characteristics of aithar tha mortgage or tha 
mortgagee. Thus, an institution can meet its C o— win 1 ty- landing 
raaponalbilltiaa even if Pannia Maa and Praddia Mac cannot 
sacuritiia a particular loan. In addition, these System 
programs aaalst a— hir institutions in sauting thair CU 
requirements. 

Granting a Level Playing Plaid 

Tha PHLBank System has traditionally baan tha only GSE to 
provide longar-tarai financing for mortgages and support for 
portfolio landers. However, ai noted by tha CBOi . 

*[T]he fhlb System la more heavily capitalized than 
are the Federal National Mortgage Association 
[Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation (Freddie Mac), and thia discrepancy la 
one factor that puts the depository institutions 
served by the FHLB System at a competitive 
disadvantage in financing conventional mortgages. 
Making tha capital standards comparable for all 
three GSBs would equalise the implicit federal 
subsidies provided to them and would be a step 
toward leveling the playing field in the housing 
finance system.' (emphaais added) ( Controlling the 
RlaXs of Govenunent-Sponsared Enterprises , CBO, 
April 1991, p. 199-300.) 



xibyOooyle 



Advances from tha FHLBanks currently require a ■mini to 
purchase capital in its FHLBank aqual to 5 percent 
of the amount advanced. Moreover, currant regulations 
raqnlra tha FHLBanks to maintain capital aqual to approximately 
S parcant of conaolidatad obligations —tha primary funding 
sources for advances. neither Fannie Has nor Fraddie Mac face 
similar capital roquir— o nti ■ In fact, both Fannia Ma* and 
Fraddie Mac operate with capital levels of approximately ona 
parcant. By contrast, tha FHLBanks have a capital-to-asset 
ratio of 7 parcant. Applying the commercial bank risk-based 
capital standards, tha FHLBanks' risk-adjuatad capital ratio 
exceeds 30 parcant. 

Thase highac relative capital requirements lixdt thai FHLBanks' 
ability to facilitate housing finance through their support of 
portfolio lenders. If, however, the Finance Board were given 
authority to establish new FHLBank capital requirements 
reflective of tha AAA credit rating of tha FHLBanks, as all 
SIB reports suggest, and as the Administration has proposed 
for Fannia Mae and Freddie Mac, housing finance could sea 
substantial benefits. 



xibyOooyle 



By establishing capital caqni r— nil lor the FHLBanks that art 
■on reflective of th* FHLBank'a low risk profile, the total 
■arkup on advances could fall dramatically. FOE example, each 
one percentage point of capital requires a PHLBank to Markup 
ita advanca rataa by approximately 7 basla points to Maintain 
an acceptable dividend laval. Thua, changing tha capital 
requirements to raflaet riak could have significant benefits to 
houaing finance aa lower funding coata to lenders can result in 
lower mortgage rataa. Furthermore, permitting tha FKLBanka to 
leverage thair substantial capital baaa could mitigate any 
adverse affect on houaing from Fannie Kaa or Freddia Mac being 
required to raise additional capital. This would aerve tha 
dual interaat of this Coaoitte* in limiting th* Federal 
Government's risk from tha GSEa while promoting a sound houaing 
policy. 

The FHLBank System, Like Mortgage Financa. la in Transition 

Mortgage finance is undergoing an evolution. Whereas th* 
thrift industry historically provided th* Majority of funding 
for mortgage origination, it now provides approximately 
25 percent of that funding. Commercial banks and mortgage 
bankars now originate almost 40 percent and 30 percent, 
respectively, of all Mortgages. This phenomenon ia partially 
do* to th* merger, consolidation and liquidation of hundreds of 
thrifts by the RTC as a result of FIRRKA. 



Kit* Google 



FIRRSA also had a miou insect on the FKLBenk System. As the 
Competitive Equality Banking Act (CIIA) had dona In 1987, 
FIRUA, too, raquirad retained earnings fro* the FKLBenk Systaxi 
to ba devoted to tna resolution of insolvent thrift*. Tha 
combined capital lo** to tha rauank System iron CUA and 
FXmtA wee In emcees of S3 billion, plus a flxad 40-year 
obligation to Mrcow of (300 million pax year (representing 
20 parcant of tha FKLBenk System's IMS earnings). 

FHLBank System iiiMi neve dacllnad $70 billion alnc* FIMEA, a 
trand that will continue with additional thrift resolutions. 
Tna System'* advance* Of $95 billion ara tha lowest since 19S3. 
■early one-third of these outstanding advances are to 
Institutions which currently do not meet their capital 
requirements. Therefore, without changes, the FHLBank lystee 
could shrink to as little as $70 billion In advances by 19*4. 

with the decline in traditional thrift samberehip advances due 
to thrift resolutions, the shrinkage of balance sheets caused 
by the new capital rules, and the majority of Mor t gagee being 
originated by non-thrifts, the System's gross earnings nave 
declined from the 19B9 record level of $1.B billion to s 1991 
projected inceae of SI. 3 billion. The fined XKFCORP 
contribution further reduces this figure to $900 •lllion. 



xibyOooyle 



Will* these earnings are large in absolute si», when spread 
onr the FHLBank System's $10.5 billion in capital, FHLBank 
System's Mnwd dividend approaches eight percent. 

Racantly, the FHLBank System baa experienced auecaaa In 
attracting new co— arcial bank members . Mtila tha fear of 
further RTC capital diversion f row tha System may craata a 
diaincantlva to membership, tha acononic ban* fits of Joining 
tha Syatan are increasingly being recognized. Current 
coasMrcial bank membership atanda at 250. Tha pace Of adding 
new members to tha Syatan la alao Increasing. Tha FHLBank 
Syatan admitted nora connaxcinl bank nembers in the firat 
four nonths of 1991 than it did in all of 1990. In fact, tha 
System now baa 11 < 
$1 billion. 



Mile tha prospective commercial bank membership base la - 
significantly greater in aaaet sise than the thrift industry, 
the pace of new nanbera added to the System haa not kept paea 
with tha loaa in thrift nanbera doe to insolvencies. Thus, 
without ehangea that serve to encourage System membership, 
XKFCQRP contribntiona vill consume an ever -in creasing 
percentage of FHLBank Systen earnings. Theee .FIRM* 
obligations currently approximate the mmEJ— 34 perce n t 
corporate tax rata. These obligations will likely exceed the 
corporate tax rate by 1994, causing dividend rates to decline 



xibyOooyle 



to as low o» six percent. Thi» would increase the desire of 
■— bar s to withdraw, motivate soma MaMbers to rad — *xc»i 
■took, and affect tha System's ability to attract now 
coaaarcial banks i 



In fact, as notad by tha CBO in its Cll study, FXKMA contained 

several impedinsnts to coaaarcial bank msabmrshlp. Fox 
axaasls, FHLBank System stock puzcbas* roqulraasnts are 
significantly higher fox eoaasrcial banks than thrifts. 
Thrifts sust purchaso a minimus level of FHLBank stock aqual to 
one parcsnt of thair mortgage assets . CcasMzcial banks, 
however, dna to tha smkeup of thair balance sheet, are often 
required to purchase a minlawai level of stock aqual to 
three-tenth* of ona percent of their total assets . Despite a 
potentially equal dollar coenitment to housing finance, this 
requirement can far exceed tha ona percent of Mortgage assets 
required of thrifts. 

For advance users, thrifts are required to purchase stock equal 
to five parcsnt of thair sdvances. in other words, they can 
leverage their investments by a ratio of 30tl. Tha mlaiassa 
stock laval for cosaterciel bank borrowing is five percent 
divided by thair Mortgage investment percentage, which can 
reduce the leverage of e oaas r cial bank capital to as little as 
III. Therefore, for s $100 Million advance, a thrift is 



xibyOooyle 



required to purchase $5 Million of stock while a commercial 
bank may have to purchase as *nich *s $50 million of stock. As 
dividends fall, thnae stock pure ha is requirements can be 
onerous. 

The disincentive for commercial bank membership is exacerbated 
by the limitation that total advances to non-QTL landers say 
not exceed 30 percent of • FHLSenk'S outstanding advances. 
Kith the fall in FHLBank advances, this is a shrinking cap. 

In sum, these provisions serve to restrict the FHLBank System 
to a group of mortgage lenders that provide less than one-third 
of total Mortgage finance, while housing ia the public policy 
purpose of the FHLSank System, these provisions prevent the 
FBLBanks from serving much of that market. Moreover, these 
restrictions are not designed to take into account the actual 
impact of a given financial institution on housing. For 
example, a large commercial bank with 30 percent mortgage 
assets may well represent a greater dollar commitment to 
housing than soem QTL lenders. 

The Finance Board believes that all members should be treated 
equally. We ere currently analysing possible changes to 
membership regal n mi n ta that would stabilise the System'* 



xibyOooyle 



profitability, Maintain its attractivansaa to nsw hbIwii, and 
anaura tho continued fair treatment of existing ■aabora, 
thereby improving tha Syataai'a ability to serve bousing. 

* Baalthr rauaak jflf la Id Housing's Boat Interest 

Tha FHLBank System baa been a good partner fox housing and 
housing Isadora for 60 years. Wo believe this partnarahip 
Should ba strengthened and enhanced because of tha 
housing- related banafita that result. 

rirat, PHLBank advances enable members to originate raaidantial 
mortgage* and crest* assets which do not conform 
with national underwriting guidolinoa. Tho FHLBank System baa 
a solid and growing role in assisting financial institntions in 
■sating tho crodlt noods of thoir local i i—uiill Isi Dsspito 
tha rocant changaa in tha financial eervicos industry, there la 
■till on important rolo for cosanmity landers. Portfolio 
landing that doss net rely on national standard underwriting 
cxi tar la can bo such aoro responsive to local housing crodlt 
noods and development conditions. Tho rauanka alao aaalat 
smaller c u — un ity Institutions in developing tho tochnlcal 
capacity to do co-unity landing. Tho Affordable Housing 
Program alraady haa boon suceosaful in this regard, and tho 
C cam unity Investment Program can assist in larger economic 
development goal a. 



!£ ibyG00gle 



Second, tram a safety and eoundneaa standpoint, the FHLBank 
Svateei can Mitigate againet Maw of the safety and aoundneaa 
concern* associated with mortgage lendere, auch aa the interest 
rat* riak resulting frcai funding long-tera mortgages with 
ahort-tem deposits. The FHLBank System anablaa houaing 
lendera to Match fund thair Mortgages, thereby alleviating auch 
intaraat rata riak. Thia function will baco— even acre 
important with tha adoption of intaraat rata riak capital 
guidelines. 

Third, many rranannlty landara hava expressed concerns about tha 
impact of intaratata banking on thair dapoait baaa and on thair 
ability to affectively coapate with larger regional 
institutions with direct access to tha capital Markets. Tha 
FHLBank System can help address these concarna. Low-coat 
FHLBank advances can serve aa a competitive replacement for 
loat retail deposits. Furtharaora, tha FHLBank Syataa can 
provide coamninlty banks with thair own acoaaa to tha capital 
nnrketa . 

Tha nation' a divers* houaing needs require a diversity of 
landara aa wall aa a diversity of product. Public policy 
ahould facilitate thia goal. Tha capital and leverage prof 11a 
of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac place portfolio lenders. 



xibyOooyle 



institutions important to tha nation's divarsa a— d a , at a 
significant coapatitiva dlsadvantaga. With aoaa changaa, tha 
FBLIank Syataa can help to of fast thia dlsadvantaga and assist 
in achieving our housing goals. Ha look forward to working 
closaly with tola Comraittea on thaaa isanaa. 



!£ ibyG00gle 



STATEMENT OF 

Stephen B. Aihtay 

Chairman & CE.O. 

Siblej Mortgage Corporation 

on behalf of the 

MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA 

before tb* 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 

«ftb* 

COMMITTEE ON BANKING, FINANCE AND URBAN AFFAIRS 

UNITED STATES 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 



^ized byGOOgle 



Mr. Chairman and Member* at the Suocoramiitee, I tun Stephen B. Aahley, Chairman and CE.O. 
of SibieyMortgage Corporation, headquartered in Rochester, Now York. I am abo aerving ai the 
iWl-inMHiarrmin^ frittTitit Mi tW nTnnnrtt^ 



_ io Mortgage Bi 

(MBA).* Amompanying me today are Michael J. Femfl, IfflKS 

Legialatrve Counael and Sharon M. Canavan, MBA'i Deputy Legislative CounaeL 

MBA appreciate* the opportunity to appear hef ore you today to teaiify with reapect to the role of 
An Federal government in atahObani the mnrtpfB credit marketa and enauring a auppty of 
affordable mottgage credit through Die program* and operation* of the Federal Home Loan 
Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and the Federal National Mortgage Aaaoraatjon (FNMA). 

MBA urge* a tnnaaund reaponae that will eatabUah ap ptop ria U capital itartrJaro* that adjuat with 

th/naroic change* aa they take place in the market or with the development of new product*. We 
alao aupport appropriate maimtfan and oversight by the Department of Homing and Urban 
Development (HUD), which we believe can be achieved aa long a* HUD ia provided sufEcient 



•upport to give it the capacity and erpertite to periorm thit job credibly. We believe that HUD 
baa the "will" ao long aa it ia given the resource* to have the "way." the W««m™i of eao ewrv* 
aafety and aoundnea* goala without factorial in the miaiion of FNMA and FHLMC will have a 
abmfficant ■— p**** on both njofln pajB credit rrffiTfrftiNrhy and availability. 

MBA aurjport* Federal aponaoratup of a mortpgn eradil delivery ayatem. We believe thi» •upport 
■hould be provided through aecondary mortgage market programa and operation* that are aelf- 
*uat*ming and actuarially lound. By all account* the mortgage te cu ritie* and purchaae operationa 

of FHLMC and FNMA cover their admin iatrative eapenaea and have eataWiahed reaervea. Their 
operationa are all aubject to varying degreei of regulatory ovenight and control. Their miaaiona, 
finally, are apecifkalry ffrn i rnarr frfd in their Co ngt i i t l rttiiHy ntandit^d chartera, 

MBA Krorurfy wipport* the current Hatua of FHLMC and FNMA, a* privately owned, federally 
chartered corporation*, aupporting the aecondary mortgage market and auuring an ample auppty 
of houaing credit at a reaaonable coat. 

MBA rapport* adequate capita loatiim [or FHLMC and FNMA a* well a* appropriate regulation 

order to allow theee corporationa to fulfill their miaiion of providing adequate and affordable 
ra pp U o i of tingle-family *nH multlfamiry mortgage credit for low*, moderate*, paaj middle-income 
hone buyer* and renter*. 



to the field of leaderrtial and commercial real eatate finance. MBA'i memberahip cornp na ea 
mortgage originator* and aervkera, aa well at inveatora, and a wioe variety of mortgage indiutry- 
rdatsd Rrma. Mortgage hanking firma, which make up the large*! portion of the totaTmemberahip, 
engage directly in originating, telling, and *ervicmg real eitate inveatment portfolio*. Member* of 



- Mortgage Banking Companiea 



- Mutual 

• Saving* 

- Mortgage Inaut 
■ T ffa Duurance 

MBA headquarteri ia located at 1125 15th Street, N.W n 
- ' tpbooe: (202) 861-6500. 



Mortgage Broker* 
Title Companie* 



Houaing Agenda 
. jtment Banker* 
Real Eatate Inveatment Truata 



3ijBz,db»Googlc 



MBA believe* that capital and regulatory requirement* should promote safety end mmImm JMh, 

but should also be aeneitrre 10 the bowing mission, which » the buk (or Contra*** creation of 
FHLMC and FNMA. Such requirement* ihould abo be ciearry related to spedfE rids aasociattd 

and FNMA. 

MBA believe* that excessive capital req^irementa-beyond level* reeioaebh reined to the risk* 
borne by FHl^C and FNMA-wffl mcreaie mcrtpgc intereet riiee. Ratic«I capita] leTtli c&actry 



projected ri 
L *iH eahu 



m «e*«tjr end mnidneei without wnnipnairfly 

availability end iflordebOitv. 

In etteining mnJUtJ capital requirements, FHLMC end FNMA ihould *tnve to pr es erve 
mortgage credit affordabfliry. Fee* and charge* to *elta/*crvicer* ihould bear ■ direct relationship 
to the nak of the type of mortgage! purchaaod or guarantee* provided. 

MBA auppora HUD aa the regulator of FHLMC and FNMA far appliance with to miaakn and 
mandate* of their Cc«gre**ion*l charter*, u well *> for ulety and soundness. HUD understands 
the housing lupport and mortgage credit role that these corporations fulfilL HUD should be given 
the *»«■■— Si management rapport neceaiary to moo iter * od evaluate FHLMC and FNMA and to 
enforce requirement* Decenary to enaure that FHLMC and FNMA maintain their financial 
eoundnea* mi their ability to play a meaningful role in providing housing and mnrtgag* credit 



MBA rapports regulatory i alien* and enforcement power* to enure aaf ety and soundness to 
protect tiipayeo from the potential of any Federal expenditure* on behalf of theae corporation*. 
The business operations of FHLMC and FNMA should be monitored and subject to examination, 
audit, and enforcement action*. However, thi* regulatory control ihould be sensitive to the 
necessity of these ontporatinoa to operate ucdbty in f as t -paced fht*j*cjil market*. The ability to 



Appratimateh/ 63 percent of the loan* originated by mortgage banker* are purchased ur *ccuritiiad 
by FNMA and FHLMC Consequently, MBA baa a sound knowledge of the secondary mortgage 
market and the factors that have been largely responsible fur the success of the *econdary market 
enterprises over the yean. 

Furthermore, MBA believes the strength of these secondaiy mortgage market enterprises ba* been 
pivotal m avoiding mortgage credit shortages since the passage of the Financial Institutiona ReJorm, 
Recovery and Enhancement Att of 1989 (FIRREA). Thrifts and commercial bank* have been able 
to maintain their mortgage openitujns and investments by dealing with FNMA tad FHLMC who** 
mortgage becked securities carry a preferential risk based capitilweighting over purtfeto holding*. 
Horn* Bo rr ow er* have not experienced the credit crunch that ha* (O seriously affected other type* 
of real estate-related mortgage finance. Since the passage of FIRREA, the share of mortgage credit 
•applied by FNMA and FHLMC through their securities and purchase activities has grown from 
33 percent in 1989 to 42 percent in 1990. 

FNMA and FHLMC are national aecondary market institution* dedicated to providing affordable 
houaing for homeowner. * aa well a* renter*. p«ih»tu-n""* 'tuy bring m ih. JBneJtjg MTtr^tjiiT 



3igj!iz»d byGOOgle 



long-ten^ m the flciw of aedu to housing. 



Both PHLMC and FNMA have a cleat 

affordable housing. FTRREA enhanced 
Incorporating in the Statement of Purpoae 



1* costs, and the bcnefiU of creative 



to provide ongoing tniatance to the aecondary market tec home mortgage* 
(mcfuding mortgage* aecuring homing Bar low-and moderate-income famiuea 
involving a reasonable economic return to the corporation) by increasing the 



Mr. Chairman and Membera of the Subcommittee, the Mark reality of our ongoing budget deficit* 

and ha* resulted in the reining in of program* to enhance mortgage credit opportunities for 
Americans. FHLMC and FNMA have napped in where the government baa left oft Both 
corporation! have increased their commitment to affordable homing in recent year* and have done 
jo m a re*poruibie and prudent manner that hat not put the taxpayer! at undue risk. 

The role of PHLMC and FNMA will be even more important in the yean to come. 1 lie itatutory 
iliaiigii to FHA that were otaae nad last year in the Cranstuo-Goaiala National Affordable Housing 
Act will, in MBA'* opinion, seriously erode the role that FHA ha* histtricalh; serve<L which was 
to aaanra a stable supply of low dcanspaycnenl mortgage uisuratuw for low- moderate- and rnitkfle- 
income borrowers, partKularry first time home buyers. We believe that recent itatutory changes 
taken in tandem with HUCs aggressive regulatory interpretatioM win weaJten FHA'i effectwwoeei 
as a tool to help deliver affordable mortgage credit. We hope that FHLMC and FNMA wi!! be 



tance their role in ensuring stable supplies of affordable, low do* npayment mortgage 
that the private ""fr* insurance industry will provide the necessary backstop to 
J FHLMC* purchase and securities programs. 



Likewise, In the area of muititainuy mortgage credit, HUD'S active rale has been »i. ., 

diminished. FNMA and FHLMC with their sophistication and market presence can and should 
enure that a market edits for soundly underwritten multifamiry project* aa welL 

In. addition to fulfilling a bousing minion, FNMA and FHLMC must conduct their opcrationa 
prudenth. We believe that the better the oversight, the lea* capital it needed. FNMA and 

FHLMC live with oversight. They are scrutinized by Congress, regulated by HUD, overseen by the 

"' " ' — J *"" the General Accounting Office and pubuc accountants, regularly 

ent analysts, and are accountable to common stockholders. 



AH of the Congressionalry mandated studies have been released. While recommendation* tor 
capital levels and regulatory structure vary, the reports did conclude that FHLMC and FNMA are 
financially sound, well managed corporations and pose no immediate risk to taxpayers. However, 



^Google 



Presently, several steteiej sad refutations provide for fimf i nnniM sMeJanffa a of FNMA and 
PHLMCbytheTressurv Depertr»er%rnJD,*rMltheQAO. Treasury haa the amWity to approve 
the farm of seessnto) liswsd by flssja m ma m. to priouy fancuaa tot ban to dMrnw A* 
A^«ato«)wBFNMA,ndMwnnfiQ*onldWl the carfcetplace with debt r "" 
bww of flu topKi their market prwaei oonld have with respect to to—new by to 



HUD, by vhtna of the Charter Acta of FNMA tad FHLMC, fa mpowwl to oaarcMa ■— 1 

regulatory oversight and rulemaking minority, to require sppropriau reports, snd to pre-approve 
omtou<acw^aptolR^d»id^rebttingt)wMo,u^oofnertiUidrt>t. In addition, HUD 
hu ito —awn atannrity to jaumi or ■<■■——■ "■« ■»■»«—■■» dabt-to-captol rukw of Am 

agendas. 

lisbility hive frown, fueled 
rf djjtnicttoc* liHMiu the 



Id suae put by the thrift and bank crises. There are ■ multitude of distinctions between 
activities of BatttU institutions with the direct eqwsure mi— I by deposit iiMiiniini hiiii 
bnpfck nuame theoretically backing the btonatr/leMrWMmnJMofFNMAaadFHLMc. 
M c n s th sj eje, the IsgMation before m Wdty r epresen ts ■ d is tt e ng o t o b alance the goal of safety 

workahta system that hu welt served American home buyers and renter* 

Hit 2900, the "Government-Sponsored Homing Enterprise* 
Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1991." 

The bill TttnHJthn an independent Office of 

ABO) whhin HUD. The HUD Secretary 

v _ ... FHLMC Definitions of the par a mete r ! far 

the street tests wad to 'calculate 'capital requirementi an established hi the statute, although 
"■"""■J retain* the power to determine T"*""* and to require the enterprises to reeuld 
In the event of noncomphanoe. 



is atated previously, we believe ihii office should be provided with the n 

e functioni cepahty. MBA ii concerned, however, that the duties and power* of HUD 

vls-s-vis OSMEO tbould be dearly delineated and ahould not be duplicative. 

The General Accounting Office study, published in May 1991, strongly recommended creation of 
-3i independent OSE regulator that wuuld regulate and oversea the activities of ail G5Es. MBA 
' ' ■■ 1 HUDha.tr, ' 



to regulate 
IcOSEregi 



KprevaJL !___ , , 

FNMA and FHLMC properly, and dua expertise is not easily transferable to 



Digitized byGOOgle 



Degree of Control by lafvUar 

PmdncundPropMApprowl. Tin HUD SenWiv man fiwuritten. prto tpproral to «w hi 
program mm) that (his approval ponr wis extend even to enr 



MBA it nrongty oppoied to this expansive power, because we believe il will stifle innovation and 
cm be lined to further political or philosophical objectives that hive nothing to do with safety or 
•MmdMMCMuideratkMM. We believe that the Coogretconilly drafted charter sdeouately ot 
the powcri and authorities of FNMA and FHLMC to engage in mortgage-relat etl activitie 



the powan and aut nonttes of FNMA and FHLMC to engage n mortgage-relat ed activil 
long aa they are healthy, programs that reapond to rapidly '■*""f"| markets and ec 
e uw rca nn entt are niceiiary. We beaeve that die riik-bised capital requirement* will i 
adequate controls on new producti where the potential tor nak because of lack of 



e enterprises and — ~ttti tl. 
belirve that effecovo numitorinK and supervision should take the place of the provisions requiring 
prior product approval, which places excess power in the discretion of OSMEO to increase capital 
for operations and management risk, particularly where an entity meets or exceed* the higjiest 
canil* 1 standard. 

Tbe bin provides for ass eiim anil against FHLMC and FNMA to pay for the monitoring and 
umiiglll ftmctiOM performed by OSMEO. MBA supports an assessment against FHLMC and 
FNMA to provide the necessary funds to """i* antf maintain this office. 

PuniltM-m »mj Snnjlinm Civil monetary penalties can be assessed for filing false or misleading 
reports. The severity of the penalty is based on whether the violation is unintentional or intentions! 

Cease and desist orders, as well as civil monetary penalties, can be imposed againM FNMA or 
FHLMC whenever an activity could threaten core capital, or whenever a violation of a law, rule, 
regulation, written condition, or written agreement has occurred or is about to occur. The Director 
of OSMEO It empowered after a hearing to issue a wide range of orders to correct the situation, 



* weaken the enterprise prior 



Although any order can be appealed to a Federal Court of Appeals, any order remains in place 
until the resolutiun of the renew. 

MBA btllevts that these power* and sanctions are ex c ee dingly broad. While the government must 
be able to step in to protect its interests, these powers aa drafted vimuDv allow an mi«™» m 
be brought to a complete halt while die government put* together il 



it cease and desist order* be required to be precise so at to target a particular activity 
a that are being questioned. Furth er mor e, the restrictions against bringing evidence 

before a court are excessive, particularly because mere it not an administrative hearing or review 

board now in place with a body of standards or a record of proceedings. 



3igJ!ized byGOOgle 



b-hYT/T '•*"T"1"fir ". "*^«T* The power to pay dl 
when the risk-baaed capital level u not achieved Otherwise, the entities are required to report to 
OSMEO before declaring any dividend payment*. MBA b*U*vt3 that ao long, a* an entity achieve* 
"' » should be no reporting requirement. OSMEO, through its 
, should be able to enaiire aafety and soundness without 



d by FNMA/FI fLMC's Board of Directors at a 
ut 11 earned at the executive salaries being p«id 
noser the cap on salaries, but aupporta language 



Compensation for employee* is to be established & 

level "comparable" to other similar businesses, but is 

to FHLMC executive* on July 1, 1991. MBA or 

requiring ifcejl falirifi be "comparable" to other su 

sophisticated corporations, which must be able to pay competitive "I'"— in order to attract and 

retain top flight talented employee*. 



flflt-'fr"' 1 r *T 1 " 1 ' — '» The statute define* credit risk and interest rate risk and requires each 
enterpr is e to estaMah capital reserve* equal to die sum of those de fin ed rath*. In establishing the 
risk-based capital levels, OSMEO must take into account appropriate distinction* among types of 

— i -i .. ..-., -.... •■-- 'artnn should inriiid*- »ingk "* ■ BlWatn fa fiy 

* investor), and whether a 



MBA support! the risk-based capital requirements contained in this bill, but opposes the undefined 



discretion of OSMEO to increase the add-on mmponent covering operations and management 
We believe that the 20 percent add-on requirement olrtady anticipates a cushion for risk. At a 
minimum, standards for the eaercise of a discretionary increase should be dearly delineated in the 

MBA would also like to note that the factors in judging risk baaed capital requirements focus 
eaduatveh on the mortgage product* themselves. There are other factors that should abo be 
weighed in arriving at risk-based capital standards, such as whether mortgages are held in portfolio 
or guaranteed as securities, whether loans are purchased with or without recourse, etc Obviously, 
to some degree these factors are included in the interest rale and credit risk assumptions, but we 
believe they should be more dearly spelled out. 



To cover interest rate risk, the enterprises would be required to —"""*■ additional capital 
whenever interest rates shifted, either up or down, in the event that rate* moved by the tester of 
30 percent or 300 basis points end remained there for eight yean. 



An add-on component require 

cover credit and interest rate risk in order to cover management and operation* risk (and OSMEO 

can increase this add-no amount to reflect actual risks.) 

OSMEO can also require additional capital for risk* associated with any new program. 

MBA btUtva that strong capital requirements are necessary to protect the gov ernm ent from 
cqpihpt ' liability. If those capital levels are being achieved, however, we believe quite strongly 
Aat interference in day-to-day operations, program and financing decisions, etc should be left in 
the hands of the management and boards of the entities. 



3ijBz,db»Google 



at new program* cannot be adequately evaluated for risk became of lack 

_.. _, e additional capital should be required, to long a* that add-on capital 

ranajtenMnl if required to be correlated to awtfcajatag 1 ride. However, standards for the exercise 



lk^ntmtim CtfJUJ I — ** Toe proposal require* mi 
market equity equal to 2 percent of on-balance tin 
BMaptloaa, phu core capital equal to IS percent of 



minimum >-ptml I— U |afJ< >> agBg tfttni-Ht. 

' set assets and 1 percent of off-balance sheet 
co-balance abeet assets and .5 percent of off - 



rx»i~l QajM 1 agak Whenever capital faQ* to SO percent of the minimum capital level*, thii 
would activate the critical capital levels and the accompanying regulatory controla 

MBA supports the requirements in HH 2900 for minimum and critical capital levels. 

uirement in the proposal, MBA ii pleased 
it for private rating* for the enterpriae*. 




■ed in the bill are related to the maintenance of capital at 



certain levela. OSMEO ha* die d b cre tkw to red***ify the enforcement level of an enterpriae b< 
up to two levela (and thua anhaaca enforcement power*) whenever any action could rapidly deplete 
capital or the value of iecr— J " J '" ■'*'- '" 



l awl t Thi» enforcement level assume* no extraordinary powers by OSMEO. Regulatory capital 
would bave to meet or exceed the risk-based capita] requirement* and the minimum capital levels. 

Level n. If the enterpriae meet* the minimum capital level, but doe* not meet the risk-based 
standard, then OSMEO muat notify Congress; the enterprise must develop a capital restoration 
plan; and dividend payment* are restricted ao that they do not cauae capital to fall to Levela m or 



iterpriae on pay dividend! only with prior approval by 
tt be approved by OSMEO. At OSMEO'* discretion. 
i be taken, including: limiting or reducing obligations. 



restoration plan must be developed; the enterpriae a 

OSMEO; and all activities undertaken muat be appn 

other more invasive regulatory action* may be taken, including: limiting or reducing obligation*, 

curtailing aaaet growth or requiring contraction, prohibiting dividend payment*, requiring new 

capital to be issued, amending any activity that create* excessive risk, limiting executive 

compensation, and/or appointing a conservator. 

Level IV. If the enterprise doe* not meet the critical capital level or is downgraded ui 
discretion of OSMEO (see above), then OSMEO must appoint a 
- - "-e name of the er ' 



MBA supports the enforcement mechaniam levela contained in HR 2900. They appropriately trigger 
action to increase capital and to rectify problem situation* quickly. MBA it concerned that the 
diacretion held by OSMEO to reclassify the enforcement level by up to two stern could be too 
precipitous. We believe that a one-step reclassification with immediate notification to Congress 
would be tr** 1 — — ' 



3ijBz,db»Google 



BUD miy require ■ "feaionabla portion' of the nicmi aag e n nrrh isai by t> 
devoted to low- to rnodetate-incc^fsinuie*. MBA supports this requirement 
believes that on* of the primary housing sHordaciility concerns today is the di 
he«Mbt»tc ww« bawiaaccuniiila tl DgaaTaMfa> Jimui»)iu ani. Wewouk 
hcsnsownership for this target group should ba a specific goaL 

Additinnalh/, the bin mandates tn affordable bousing program funded by FNMA and FHLMC tt 
a level of 20 percent of their previous year 1 * dividends. MBA supports the concept of requiring 
FHLMC and FNMA is damoiMtrata a commitment to low-end moderate-income houatsf, 
partkularfy in the raultifamify arena. 

The lack of availsMe raUtilamfly mortgage credit, particularh/ for lew-income fleets, n a serious 
problem today, particularly for older properties, which trod to ba low-incotne. FHLMC ha» bean 
out of the muttjfamuy market tor over a year, although they are gearing upfbr a new profjam. 
"* ' -J a devastating j^y*** on fiiuhtfiTnfly mortgage financing. FNMA, while ft hat 

- market baa fairly stringent underwriting guidelines, which toad to favor newer 

te only begun to ininlamaM to D aU ptear W ae tu^ 

lariry to full insurance HUD processed loans. The problem is not so much on* 



pmgramwouldb*fWdedasataioahomeowoera,whoar*th*uliimat«»ourceofFNMA/FHLMC 

Sacond, and moat importantly, the program would not result in significant levels of 

:-. _....'i_._:u. .„.„■..- m. i_u_^ j,,, mon ^fa ^uy be produced, even for the 



funding for muliirarniry housing. Wa believe tf 
needy families targeted by this proposal, with ai 
number of units. 



Opportunities, as well as enjoy the benefit of profitably ensuring stable supplies of mortgage ct 

We would welcome the opportunity to work with the Committee in devising methods to enaL 

stoma commitment by FHLMC and FNMA to affordable multifamity rental housing and to 
e programs for first time bomabuyats. 



Although there are concerns with HR 2900, MBA believes that the proposal represents a measured 
approach that can accommodate the dual objectives of safety snd soundness with the public mission 
to promote housing affordability and mortgage credit availability. 

FNMA and FHLMC are government chartered enterprises whose operations are legislatively 
circumscribed and are subject to both legislative and regulatory review. If FNMA and FHLMC 
were required to raise an arbitrary amount of capital to help protect the government against 

extremely remote economic circumstances, this would raise their costi and result in higher interest 
rates for home borrowers. 

MBA believes that these agencies are fiscally sound corporations that provide mortgage credit at 
the moat affordable rates possible, make money for their stockholders, and pay taxes. 



3i0!izad byGOOgle 



a far FHLMC and FNMA, aa wel u appropriate wplwtai 
m*. However, capital and lefuUlory requirementa should alao 
t, Such requirement* thould aleo be deiit* related to ^odfic 



rwka leacchMd with the differer.t type* of mnrrpgaa, i armmmt aecuriiiea, and guano 
provided by FHLMC and FNMA. MBA believe, that in liabt of the typea of ritia incurred bj 
afenciaf and their ongoing atrategiea for coo trolling latitat rate and credit riak, cmeaaive t - 
WB fc lWIfc W ttW I — B «id, in fact, would limit credit availability and raise intere» 
for horoehuyera. Moreover, MHA believe* that additional QSF. iegukticM ahould not baaooi 



tut only in gold-plated 
r. FNMA and FHLMC 
are unique in that they were chartered aa private companiea with public minioni: to engage in 
public-private partnership* to eWww haMMM lor poorer *■—**■«* through community lending 
purchaae of mortgage revenue bond*, and equity inveatmenta uaiog low-income houaing tax creditt 
nir* broad tfl r i fe p to American fc—J*— , which haa worked well pd haa earned etPPwg i OWelhjpfa l 

-■■■'--- •■-■■■■■■■ ■»■ --"-- m buyera would be daacontinued if awfetf 

a far the public nuaekn of FNMA and 

MBA ■p ta wlate aihJCTOort Bn^ to teatnV before triia Subcommittee and will provide anawer* to 



!£ ibyG00gle 



Mortgage Bankers 
Association of America 



Honorable Henry B. Gonzalez 




a Homing and Community Develop 
tanking, Finance, and Urban Affairs 

VS. Houaa of Representatives 

2413 Raybuni Houae Office Building 

'■-"■*-— B.IXC 30515 



Dear Mr. Chairman: 



mation it being furnished for the record of the July 19, 1991 bearing held by the 
HR 2900, the Government-Sponsored Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and 

£ge 72 of the record), you asked MBA's witness, Stephen B. Ashley, 
' the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home 
Loan Mortgage Corporation contained in HR 2900, ai introduced, would remit in higher mortage 
rates. MBA supported the capital provisions in HR 2900 and did not believe they would have 



Our concern was that the Administration's proposed capital requirements were excessive 
and would impose an unnecessary financial burden on potential bomebuyer* through higher 



mortgage rates. The Administration's proposal allowed for a tremendous amount of flexibility ot 

"*e pert of the regulator, to create a method for determining the possible risk exposure of tin 

SB's activities. This type of flexibility could result in stress test scenarios to be established tl 



e or no rations] or historical basis and would likely result in unnecessary costs to 
hornebuyers. Because the Administration's proposal allowed for so much Gexlbility in detennining 
risk-based standard!, a quantifiable judgement on the exact amount of such an increase would not 

Again, we appreciated the opportunity to appear and would be pleased to furnish any 
additional needed information. 



,db»Goog!c 




Statement of the 
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS* 





me voice for Real Estate™ 




THE WORLD'S LARGEST TRADE ASSOCIATION 


TO: 


U.S. una smammisE co hxbiwi, tMnnffl en aaiKras, 
pdhks (wd ibsw mux 


StBJBCT: nXmCML SAFETY AH> 3XWW3S (T OWMOftMr-gOaCBED 


BT: 


RICK AMIS, CHAIBHK OP 1BE HEAL ESTA1E FIMHCE CCOTENITCKAL 
UHGftX CDMBT1B 


"** 


JCU 19, 1991 



3ijBz,db»GoogIc 



S14 

STATEMENT OF THE 

THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS* 

ON GOVERNMENT-SPONSORED ENTERPRISES 

BEFORE THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON HOUSING 

COMMITTEE ON BANKING, FINANCE AND URBAN AFFAIRS 

JULY 19, 1991 



INTlQDUCnOW 

Mr. Chairman, member* of the Subcommittee, my name is Rick Adam*. I am a 
REALTOR* from San Antonio, Tent, and the Chairman of the Real Eitate Frnanca 
Conventional Mortgage Committee. On behalf of the approximately 780,000 memben of 
the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS*, I am pleated to have the 
opportunity to present this AMotiatJon'i viewt on legislative proposals designed to 
enhance the financial safety and soundness and ensure the continued viability of 
Government-Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs), specifically the Federal National Mortgage 
Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie 
Mac). 



NAR commends you, Mr. Chairman, for holding these hearing! to e 
financial soundness of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. NAR believes that it hi entirely 
appropriate tor Congress to assert its jurisdiction over the housing related GSEs. We 
believe it it the role of Congress, and Congress alone, to oversee thai these GSEs 
operate in a safe and sound manner while continuing their publicly charged housing 

My testimony today will focus on: (1) an analysis of the role of Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac in the secondary mortgage market and the services they provide; (2) an 
overview of the various Federally mandated studies on GSEs and the current legislative 
climate; (3) the Association's position regarding H.R.2900, The Government-SpoDsored 
Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1991"; and (4) the 
Association's position on HJL 2747, The Government Sponsored Enterprises Financial 
Safety and Soundness Act of 1991". 



!£ ibyG00gle 



L GSEk BOLE IN THE SECONllARV MOBTCACE MABKBT 

Impact of Secondary Market GSEi 

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac perform role* that are central to the lecondaiy 
mortgage market. Since Fannie Mac'* reorganization in 1968 and Freddie Mac'* 
eatabuthmem In 1970, the secondary mortgage market ha* evolved through in infancy to 
itt current maturity, sophistication and efficiency. These two enthiei and the 
Government National Mortgage Association (Giunie Mae) (the hitter of which aecurithea 
the mongagef insured by the Federal Homing Administration (FHA) and guaranteed by 
the Department of Veteram Affairs (DVA), are crucial in the home mortgage delivery 
system. They successfully integrate mortgage marfceta - homebuyers - with the capital 
market Baaed on the activities of these GSEs, the secondary market baa grown 
substantially from it* infancy in the late 1970s and early 1980a. Between I960 and 1989, 
the annual volume of mortgages repackaged as securities and sold in the secondary 
market increased from S22 billion to $195 billion. By the end of 1989, there were $750 
billion in mortgage-backed securities outstanding, $360 billion of which were Ginnie 
Maes. 

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac dominate conventional mortgages. The 
Department of Homing and Urban Development (HUD) estimates the conforming 
conventional mortgage market share of the total dollar volume is 78J percent Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac's market share is estimated at nearly 86.3 percent Together they 
have financed home* for over 17 million American families. 

Promoting Stability and Liquidity For the Svitem 

These two enterprises sole dedication to mortgage finance, and concomitantly, 
their dedication to staying in the system at all times lends a stability to the system that 
would not otherwise be there. For example, in the 1970's and 1980's, interest rates 
swung wildly and traditional supptien of mortgage funds were unable to bold deposits 
against such competitors as money market funds. Mortgage fund* were not always 
available, except those funds provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac stayed in the market when other companies withdrew. However, from 
1982, conventional originations have grown fairly steadily from $78 billion, reaching an 
estimated $343 billion in 1990, despite saving* and loan* institutions' declining 
participation in home lending. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are responsible tor that 
growth and stability In the housing market During the 1980's, studies indicate that 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac brought at least $450 billion of liquidity into the bousing 
markets that otherwise would not have been. 



!£ ibyG00gle 



e Source of Mortgage Finance 

The national scope of Fannie Mae'* and Freddie Mac'* operation* enhance the 
flow of mortgage fund* among all geographic region* of the country. Their fbcu* on 
home lending allow* ihcm to support mortgage lending in all economic circumstances 
and, more importantly, across all areas of the country. In 1986, for example, when states 
such as Texas and Oklahoma experienced a severe downturn, Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac remained in the market when private companict withdrew. Similarly, today, in the 
Northeast, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are helping that area of the country avoid a 
residential "credit crunch" which would parallel the commercial credit crunch. These 
nationwide source* of mortgage credit will ensure that potential homebuyers in 
economically depressed states will not be locked out of the market. 



Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac help reduce mortgage interest rates as a results of 
their federal ties and the way they do business. As the Office of Management and 
Budget (OMB) recently noted, the federal relationship allows Fannie Mae to borrow 
significant amounts of money along the yield curve at rates between 25 and 75 basis 
points below those for the mostly highly rated corporate debt Likewise, Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac's federal ties lead investors to accept its guaranteed mortgage-backed 
securities at relatively low yield* and result in lower cost to lenders packaging a pool of 
loans. These phenomena lower the cost of homeownership to consumers by an average 
of 50 basis points. This saving* translates Into S2J billion in savings to homeowners each 
year. 

Contribution to Market Efficiency 

Stated last, but of equal importance, is Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac'* 
contribution to market efficiency. They have brought standardization and homogeneity 
o mortgage product*. They have created an efficient, smoothly functioning and highly 



1L RESULTS OF FEDERALLY MANDATED STUDIES ON GSE» AND 
OVERVIEW OF CURRENT LEGISLATIV F n IMATB 

Two yean ago, as part of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and 
E n forcem e nt Act (FIRREA), Congress mandated a number of studies be conducted on 
the GSEs. At that time, Congress had just enacted legjslation appropriating $30 bflnoc 
to pay off insured depositors of a crisis-riddled saving* and loan industry, with the 



^Google 



knowledge that the eon conk) eventually grow even higher. Needled to say, at that time, 
any corporate entity that had any sort of "tic" to and could pose a contingent liability to 
the Federal Government came under the watchful - indeed, concerned - eye of 
Congress. Congressional members were concerned that the CiSEs might po*e undue 
risk* to taxpayers as the thrift debacle had done. Congressional concern, as reflected in 
the subsequently mandated studies, was both necessary and appropriate to ensure that 
another industry bailout did not occur. In addition, last year both Houses of Congress, in 
the Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1990, passed resolutions calling for the consideration 
of legislation to regulate GSEs by September IS, 1991. 

We must, however, remind the member* of this Subcommittee that we are not at 
the same place In time we were in August, 1989. We now have the benefit of seven 
studies from five different agencies who have all concluded that Fannie Mac and Freddie 
Mac are generally well-run, well-managed and well-capitalized. For example: 

o The Congressional Budget Office found that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 
have "been consistently and highly profitable in recent years" and "targe change* in 
interest rates are unlikely to harm Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac significantly"; 

o The Office of Management and Budget, in this year's President'* budget, wrote 
that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac entail "close to zero" risk to taxpayers while 
transmitting a substantial subsidy to homebuyers in the form of lower mortgage 
rate*; 

o Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, in testimony before the Senate 
Banking Committee in June, 1990 on the "credit crunch" issue, said. The 
continued flow of credit in residential mortgage markets owes much to the many 
alternatives to despository credit. The securitization of home mortgage* has 
become a routine financial transaction, with about SI trillion in mortgage debt 
held in that form. Buyer* of these securities have stepped in to acquire asset* 
shed by thrifts and to fund new lending". 

In lummary, after lengthy and intensive review, all the report* have cited again 
and again that these two homing GSEs are ideas that work. Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac are now two case studies which Congress can refer to with pride a* enterprises that 
balance public sector goals with private sector initiatives. Given tint "housing GSE clean 
bill of health", we believe Congress should focus on how to protect and pr eser v e Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac** successes while continuing to protect the taxpayer from po tenti al 
contingent liabilities becoming actual liabilities. 



^Google 



We realize ihat the thrift debacle and, following in its wake, the current fhmnrinl 
criiii in the h»pfcing industry and its Bank Insurance Fund (now exacerbated by the 
severe downturn in the commercial and investment real estate market) offer valid causes 
for concern for bank and thrift regulators. But the heated rhetoric atwoesWed.' with - 
depository institutions often and unnecessarily spills over into the debate regarding the 
bousing GSEs. Mr. Chairman, the distinctions between the two need to be made very 
clear. They are not banks; they do .not accept deposits or make direct loans; they ate 
congressionalfy chartered, stockholder-controlled corporations mandatrd to accomplish a 
public policy purpose through a unique corporate design. 

ill H.R. 290*. THE ■GOVERNMENT -SPONSORED ENTERPRISES HOUSING 
FINANCIAL SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS ACT OF UW 

At our Mid- Winter Meetings in January of this year, our Association considered 
the issues surrounding the Government-Sponsored Enterprises. At that time, the Board 
of Directors reaffirmed the Association's strong commitment to the continued vitality of 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We believe, however, that if Congress does decide to 
modify the oversight and regulation of these entities, the following principles should be 
embodied in any new legislation enacted: 

1. Congress should retain a focused housing mission for Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac to provide the American home buyer with ready access to mortgage credit 
through financial products and services that promote the availability and 



2. Congress should require capital standards that ai 
degree of risk associated with housing investments ii 
market; and 

3. Congress should ensure federal oversight which will balance Fannie Mae's and 
Freddie Mac's commitment to their housing missions with the need to manage 
their businesses in a prudent manner. 

The NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS* believes that any legislative 
proposals should encompass the above enumerated principles. We note at the outset, 
however, that following the concept embodied in Principle #3 may be the most difficult 
task before the Congress because the decisions reached on it may have far-reaching 
effects not only on the GSEs but also the housing market. Hence, we believe that a 



.d by Google 



guiding precept ibould be that the role of the Federal government with regard to the 
busmes* op e ration* and derisions of the OSE* should remain at one of oversight only 
unfed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac pose a ritk to the taxpayer. Inviting the Federal 
e Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae in their day-to-day business 
management dedekmmaking dilute* the discipline imposed 
a by the private marketplace, reduce* their effectiveness in their homing 
roles by making them lew efficient businesses, and limits their financial strength by 



The National Association of REALTORS* ha* considered various legislative 
proposals including H.R. 2900, introduced by you, Mr. Chairman, At the outset, we 
would like to state our support of the need to establish and maintain effective 
mechanisms for monitoring and managing the activities of GSEs, We believe tab Is the 
appropriate role, and indeed, the responsibility of Congress. We believe that your 
legislation is an appropriate start for modernizing the regulation of the housing GSEs. 
We believe that the bask approach to GSE capitalization and regulation embodied in 
your bill is reasonable and sound and the regulatory oversight framework is workable. 
Nevertheless, we believe that refinements can be made that will devise the optimum bill 
to accomplish the desired consensus. 

Specific Statutory Stress Test 

H.R. 2900 would incorporate a specific risk-based stress test that win be defined in 
the law. The Association supports this provision because we believe that a statutory 
stress test provided In the legislation with very specific parameters, offers the best 
mechanism to evaluate and monitor the housing GSEs. We believe that Congress, not an 
existing or unknown regulator, should determine appropriate capital standards. Only 
Congress has the political mandate to balance the goals of bousing support with the 
policy of ensuring government safety. 

Your legislation also includes provisions which would require Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac to set aside additional capital in the amount of 20 percent (of the capita] 
for credit and interest rate risk) for management and operation! risk, as well as authorize 
the Director to "increase or decrease such percentage for each enterprise as the Director 
determines appropriate to reflect actual management and operations risk." While the 
Association does not disagree with that specific percentage amount included for 
management and operations risk, we must respectfully submit that we are troubled by the 
arbitrary powers of the regulator to increase this number at will As previously stated, 
we believe that the amount of capital should be set in law. Both Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac should know what their capital requirements are so business decision* can 
be made accordingly. The National Association of REALTORS" opposes this arbitrary 
discretion of the regulator to change the capital level and we request that it be dropped 



1 



Capital Level* far gdjBTfljliBri CMittfaJ flSB 

The NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS* is alio concerned with the 
considerable discretion which would be accorded to the new Director to demand 
additional capital when new programs and product* are offered, even after the GSE ba* 
proven it* adequate capitalization on the application of stress tests. Thii provition will 
force a choice between product innovation and maintaining adequa t e capital standards; 
this forced choice for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may not always result in bousing 
products that will assist potential hornebuyen like rural Americans or poor renters who 
need special housing products. When the enterprise is well- c a p i t a l ized this is clearly an 
unneeded intrusion on corporate activities and an obstacle to product innovation that ba* 
been a hallmark: for GSEs' success. The Assnciaty™ pjsnoaea, '*"* prov»ion m ™^ -n 
■" yndyfl derisions suhject to a prior; capital standard and we «™™»i 'h-t *hh 



Identity and Placement of Regulator 

riR.2900 proposes an Office of Secondary Market Examination and Oversight 
under the management of a Director appointed by the President with the advice and 
consent of the Senate, empowered to supervise the capitalization of the GSE*. The 
Association supports the provision in your legislation, Mr. Chairman, of the placement of 
the regulator within HUD because we believe that HUD can adequately regulate the 
GSEs if given the staff expertise to do so. However, we are concerned that this 
alternative perpetuates the separation of safety and soundness supervision from 
programmatic oversight While financial safety and soundness are, indeed, appropriate 
concerns, we believe that one of these two objectives should not be given prominence at 
_ the expense of the Other. While the Annexation prefers that the -safety and soundness 

or" be in a separate bureau wfthm HUP, as opposed to the Treasury Pep 



we would go one step further and suggest, that id 
and the program regulator be one and the same. If- the program regulator and the safety 
and soundness regulator were the same, this would eliminate any potential "whipsawing" 
for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in their efforts to gain approval of new products to 
meet the HUD Secretary's own requirement concerning low- and moderate-income 
housing with the new Director's capital standard. 

Affordable Housing 

HJL2900 proposes to make several changes to the manner in which Fannie Mm 
and Freddie Mac provide low- and moderate-income housing. In particular, the 
legislation would require both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to devote 20 percent of 
their prior year dividends to a housing program for low and moderate income persons. 



xibyGooyle 



Mr. Chairman, the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS* it firmly 
committed to expanding the opportunities for affordable fainting for thlt iiatkm'i 
population, and we support the principle* on which your affordable homing provitioat 
are bated. Providing acccat to decent, affordable homing it a key step to buikliiig a 
better citizen and building a better nation. There « no better citizen than tomcone who 
own* tut or her own home. More Importantly, the nation at a whole stands to protpar 
through enhancement of affordable housing initiative*. Affordable homing a paramount 
to the development of a competitive local economy. Localitiet trying to attract new 
resident* and create new job* impede their own progrett if they cannot provide housing 
that it accessible to the workforce. 

We art) all too painfully aware that the diminished Federal role in housing hat 
underscored more than ever the severe need for local housing initlativei. Individuate who 
choose to leave the development of affordable housing to the Federal government are 
only kidding themselves. It it clear that a greater portion for the care and maintenance 
of the welfare of our communities must shift to the private lector. 

While we firmly tupport the principle, we believe the proposed financing 
mechanism - diversion of a set percentage of the GSEs' dividend! - is an inappropriate 
method to achieve very laudable objectives. Therefore, we must reluctantly oppose these 
provisions. 

At you are aware, Mr. Chairman, in FTRREA, NAR supported the establishment 
of a similar affordable housing program with a similar financing mechanism within the 
Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLBank) System. Under the affordable housing provisions, 
the FHLBanki are required to set aside a specified percentage of their dividends to be 
used to subsidize interest rates on advances to member institutions that make loan for 
long-term affordable low- and moderate-income housing at subsidized interest rate*. We 
believed then - and we believe now - that the tax-exempt FHLBanki' dividend 
contribution was the appropriate means for assuring that these entities help meet critical 
community investment and affordable housing needs. 

While somewhat similar comparisons can be drawn between the statutory missions 
of the FHLBanks and the housing GSEs, comparisons must end at this point. The fact 
remains that the FHLBanks differ substantially from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. To 
compare them is to compare applet with oranges. It is for this reason that attempting to 
implement a FHLBank-like affordable housing program within Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mae will not produce the sought after results, will have adverse effects on the entities' 
operation!, and more importantly, win not use in the most effective way, the power of 
" g capacity. 



xibyGooyle 



Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac aie strong became they are private corporation* 
held accountable to the market They pay federal income taxes. They are responsible to 
their ibareholderi to perfor m well and earn consistent returns. 

These strengths are the linch pin for the very success of the secondary ""sy 
market Both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac leverage their many dollars of capital 
(generated by retaining profits) into hundreds of times the number of dollars in all levels 
of housing, particularly low- to moderate-income. In our view, the most effective way to 
the the biggest bang for the buck out of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is not to lessen, 
but rather, to further extend the power of their financing capacity. 

To that end, we are pleased by Fannie Mae's announcement of its pledge to 
commit S10 billion to affordable housing initiatives as well as Freddie Mac's renewed 



We also want to note, for the record, the far-reaching salutary impact this 
commitment is already having in terms of providing housing. On Jury 10, 1991, this 
Association and the U.S. Conference of Mayors (IJSCM) announced the selection of 11 
cities as demonstration sites for affordable housing programs to be initiated through a 
joint effort Involving the local board of Realtors and the mayor in each community. 

A critical component to the success of this public-private housing partnership is 
the involvement of Fannie Mac and Freddie Mac Mr. Chairman, both of these entities 
have pledged to make financing available through their low- and moderate-income 
housing initiatives for the local programs. The secondary mortgage market entities will 
be offering financial assistance, such as a low-down payment mortgage program, through 
local lenders. 

We believe, Mr. Chairman, that the alliance of the NAR, the USCM and Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac represents the triumverate of future successful affordable housing 
programs: marketing to individual families, public sector support and local perspectives 
on housing needs. More importantly, however, is that the NAR-USCM effort will enable 
Fannie Mae to expand the reach of its $10 billion commitment to finance affordable 



While your letter of Invitation does not include a request for Our a 
the Treasury proposal, H.R. 2747, the "Government-Sponsored Enterprises Financial 
Safety and Soundess Act of 1991", we would, nonetheless, like to address some concents 
we have for the record. 



^Google 



Safety md Soundness Versus 

The Treasury proposal is predicated on a conclusion that financial safety and 
soundness should have primacy over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac'* housing mission. 
The National Association of REALTORS* believes that these two principles should be 
balanced. If safety and soundness are the prime goals of these housing GSE*, then 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would not produce any innovative housing products and 
would not participate in any riskier housing programs, including muitifamiry housing 
programs which tend to be riskier than other bousing programs. 



The capital standards proposed by the Administration clearly reflect a 
determination to use banking-like capital requirements that are arguably inconsistent for 
the business that housing-related GSEs pursue. In addition, the proposed capital levels 
are excessively stringent For example, as defined by the proposal, Freddie Mac's 
current capital is below the "leverage lever, despite the corporation's Standard and 
Poor's rating of A-plus in the latest Treasury report (In fact, Freddie Mac could be 
subject to conservatorship immediately upon enactment of the Administration's bill in its 
current form.) While the Administration proposes a safe harbor, only GSEs that receive 
a AAA-rating from two nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could ever 
expect to use it, especially when considered along with the three-part definition of capital 
currently proposed. Under current marketplace conditions, no corporation with a rating 
of A or better would be subjected to the additional stringent capital requirements 
contemplated by the Administration's plan. 

Finally, the Association supports capital standards in statute, as opposed to 
leaving the capital standards up to the discretion of the regulator. As previously stated, 
the Association believes that Congress should be the entity that balance* that dual goal 
of the housing mission with safety and soundness. Congress should be the entity that 
balances the bousing mission with no risk to the taxpayer. 



The NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS* strongly supports the 
activities and public policy mission of the federally chartered secondary mortgage market 
corporations. Their role is crucial and necessary in the home mortgage finance system. 
Their prudent operation and their success in meeting their public policy goals reaffirm* 
that the role and structure Congress has mandated is proper. 



!£ ibyG00gle 



Federal oversight of GSE activity is ipprop rii te and necessary, through HUD a* 
mandated by the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Ettiorcement Act of 198V 
( FIRRFA) . We are confident that HUD will fulfill iti charge, regulating Fannie Mac 
and Freddie Mac from a perspective that win benefit homeownership and enhance the 
capacity for iha natioa to meet in rental hauling need*. 

We strongly support federal oversight and regulation of these GSEi to aanre then- 
continued operation in a iafe and sound manner. We also believe that the nation's 
housing agency is the appropr i ate regulator for bousing specialized GSEs, and that HUD 
will recognise the importance of both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the mortgage 
delivery system, and provide a regulatory structure that will encourage their continued 
prudent business practices in providing consistent, affordable mortgage capital for 
American homebuyers. 



3igj!izad byGOOgle 



STATEMENT 

erf 

THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF HOME BUILDERS 

before the 

SUBCOMMrrTEE ON HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 

oTthe 
HOUSE COMMITTEE ON BANKING, FINANCE AND URBAN AFFAIRS 



INTRODUCTION 



Mi. Chairman and members of the Committee, I am Paul Barm, a builder from 
Littleton, Colorado. I currently icrve at Chairman of the Standing Committee on 
Mortgage Finance of the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB). In that 
capacity, I nave had ext ensi v e expoture to the housing- related government-sponsored 
enterprises (GSEs) - the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), the 
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac) and the Federal Home Loan 
Bank (FHLB) System - as well at through my personal business dealings. On behalf of 
NAHB and its 153,000 member firms, I am pleased to have this opportunity to appear 
before you to discuss the supervision and regulation of these entities, particularly with 
respect to their safety and so u ndne ss , and their roles in the housing finance markets. 



^Google 



Mr. Chairman, I want to commend you Ear the active role you have taken in 
developing legislation to modernize the supervision and regulation of Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac While there ii broad agreement that the current regulation* pertaining to 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are outdated and that major change* are needed to 
maintain the vitality of the FHLB System, the challenge currently lacing the Congress is 
how to make the necessary change* without weakening the critical role these enterprise* 
play in meeting the housing need* of American families. You and the members of this 
committee understand better than anyone else in Congress the increasingly critical role 
which Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have played in our housing finance system in the 
wake of the thrift crisis and the recent turbulence in the commercial banking system. 
There is no greater evidence of the crucial importance of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 
than the fact that today, because of their programs and activities, there is no credit 
crunch in the home mortgage market, despite the shrinkage of the thrift industry and 
the weakening of program* vital to housing in the past. As the thrift industry continues 
to shrink and until problems in the commercial banking industry are resolved, Fannie 
Mae's and Freddie Mac's role in providing mortgage money for homebuyers will 
continue to grow. Furthermore, the major changes to the nation's finance system thai 
your Committee recently advanced reinforce the need for a viable Federal Home Loan 
Bank System to ensure a support system for community-based lenders. 

In addition to the need for the housing-related GSEi to take up the slack in the 
mortgage market left by the shrinking thrift industry, two other factors have in recent 
years led to an increased need for these enterprises. Those are: 

• The government's retreat from housing programs in the 1980s. The need 
for housing programs did not decline along with the federal government'* 
resolve and budget cut*. Rather, the market turned increasingly to Fannie 
Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Bank System to provide a 
growing share of housing funds. 

• Increasing demand* on Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home 
Loan Bank System to provide affordable housing programs. 

Today, you have requested our input on this Committee's proposed legislation to 
improve the supervision and regulation with respect to financial safety and soundness of 
Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the FHLB System, Before addressing the specific* of 
your proposal, I will review Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's public purpose and the 
critical role they have played in VS. homing policy. I will conclude my remarks with a 
summary of NAHB's position on the importance and future role of the FHLB System. 



^Google 



PUBLIC PURPOSE OF FANNIE MAE AND FREDDIE MAC 



Funk Mae and Freddie Mic were created by Congress to play an integral role in 
federal boating policy by providing assistance to the secondary mortgage market Since 
their creation in 1938 and 1970, respectively, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have 
evolved into critical components of this nation's housing delivery system. That we have 
become the best housed nation in the world is due in large part to the contributions 
Fannie Mac and Freddie Mac have made to thai system. 

In 1990, Fannie Mac and Freddie Mac supplied the funds for over hah* of all 
conventional mortgage* originated. This represents a ten-fold increase over the 5 
percent they supplied in 1980. Also, Fannie Mae has taken a number of innovative 
steps over the last several years aimed at providing more mortgage money for low- and 
moderate-income individuals, and Freddie Mac has embarked on an effort to do the 
same. Particularly in view of the significant shrinkage which is occurring in the thrift 
industry in the wake of FDtREA and the recent turbulence in the commercial banking 
industry, it is clear that Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's importance in the mortgage 
market will only continue to grow. 

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have, to date, succeeded in meeting these growing 
demands far their services by expanding the base of investors in mortgages and by 
reducing costs to the homebuyer. Fannie Mac and Freddie Mac have brought 
standardization to the mortgage market and have created liquid, safe, sound investments 
which appeal to traditional and nontraditional investors. Particularly notable it their 
work in developing an international market for VS. mortgage investments. Today, 
Fannie Mac and Freddie Mac are able to tap both domestic and foreign capital 
markets far housing funds. Fannie Mac's and Freddie Mac's securities, and the 
secondary market they have supported, have become important mechanisms for 
disposing of the Resolution Trust Corporation's (RTCs) assets. As a consequence of 
the quality, standardization and liquidity brought to the mortgage market by Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac, coats to homebuycrs have been reduced by about 50 basis 



Pursuant to Congressional intent, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have always been 
there, through bad times as wen as good. This includes the period in the early 19H0"s 
when interest rates soared, the refinancing boom of 1986-87, and the recent decline of 
the traditional mortgage provider in the market - the thrift industry. Congress assured 
that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would always be then by providing them with a 



!£ ibyG00gle 



Congress also provided Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac the means to accomplish 
their mission by granting them certain benefits or federal attributes, including exemption 
from SEC registration requirement! and a $221 billion backstop line of credit to the 
Treasury which implies a federal guarantee. These represent two of the attributes 
which give rise to the market's perception of Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's "agency 
status," which in turn allows the entities to borrow at lower costs and have more 
favorable access to the credit markets. It should be noted that, although Fannie Mae 
has possessed its backstop line since 1954, it has never had to tap into its g overnment 
line of credit, even in the early 1980s when a maturity mismatch in its balance sheet 
resulted in significant losses. Freddie Mac just received its Treasury line of credit with 
the passage of FIRREA, and never needed infusions of federal funds previously while 
part of the Federal Home Loan Bank System. 

Along with these federal benefits have come responsibilities and accountability. 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are two of the most, if not the most, closely scrutinized 
corporations in the world. They are accountable to their shareholders as well as to the 
public through oversight by HUD, the Department of the Treasury, Congress and the 
President through his appointees to each of their Boards of Director). Today's hearing 
serves as an illustrative example of Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's public 
accountability and testimony <o the fact that the public-private partnership envisioned by 
Congress is working. Indeed, this hearing constitutes another step in the evolutionary 
process by which we create and maintain a reasoned, informed policy for the provision 
of affordable housing. 

This hearing also provides testimony to Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's success in 
their housing mission. They have done precisely what they were created to do, and 
they have done it well, accounting today for over half of the conventional mortgage 
market, and two-thirds of the loans conforming to the mortgage limits established by 
Congress. Yet ironically, in the wake of the thrift crisis, this very success has raised 
fears by some that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could precipitate a new multibillion 



At the heart of the capital adequacy issue lies the question of risk. Large losses m 
the thrift industry have raised concerns about the risk posed to the federal government 
by GSEs like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mae. At the root of these concerns is the fear 
that the government could have to make good on the roughly S800 billion of Fannie 
Mae's and Freddie Mac's outstanding debt and mortgage-backed securities. 

Sheer size, in and of itself, doss not constitute risk. To meaningfully evaluate the 
risks posed by Fannie Mae. and Freddie Mac, one needs to. analyze the credit and 
interest rate risk to which they are exposed and the measures they have taken to 
insulate themselves from those risks. As you know, over the past year a number of 



!£ ibyG00gle 



studies hive been conducted to evaluate Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac'* risk 
exposure. Five federal agendo - Treasury, the General Accounting Office (OAO), the 
Congressional Budget Office, the Office of Management end Budget and HUD - have 
looked at this question. In addition, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac themselves 
commissioned independent studies; Fannie Mae's was conducted by James O. 
Woifensohn, Inc, under the direction of Paul Volcker, and Freddie Mac's was done by 
Price- Waterhouse. Importantly, all of the studies concluded that Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac are adequately capitalized and do not pose a risk of a taxpayer bailout, 
similar to that of the thrift industry. 

Thus, based on the clean bin of health from all these studies, the primary 
concern of the Congress should not be bailouts, but balance. The challenge currently 
racing the Congress is how to achieve the appropriate balance between Fannie Mae's 
and Freddie Mac's bousing mission and their financial well-being. We believe that 
there are three primary factors necessary to achieve this balance: (1) a regulator 
capable of balancing housing mission with safety and soundness, (2) capital 
requirements based on_ actual risks undertaken by these enterprises, and, (3) adequate 
examination, supervision and enforcement powers. 



HUD IS APPROPRIATE REGULATOR FOR FANNIE MAE AND FREDDIE MAC 



NAHB strongly believes that HUD is the appropriate Federal agency to oversee 
both the program responsibilities and the safety and soundness of Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac. We see no reason for an independent "superGSE" regulator such as 
that proposed by GAO. Such a regulator would lack the bousing expertise necessary to 
pass realistic judgments on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac: 

The safety and soundness of Fannie Mac and Freddie Mac are best regulated by 
an entity with expertise in and support for their housing missions. These functions, 
which are the very essence of HUD, are essential tor judging the performance of these 
bousing GSEs. Indeed, it is precisely for this reason that Congress placed regulatory 
oversight of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with HUD. 

NAHB acknowledges that HUD has come under criticism in carrying out its 
regulatory role. Nevertheless, we believe that there are sound reasons for retaining 
HUD'S oversight of these secondary market entities. HUD understands the housing 
support and mortgage credit role that these corporations fulfill and thus can strike the 
proper balance between mission fulfillment and financial well-being. We are confident 
that a structure can be established within HUD, such as that proposed by the 
Committee and Treasury, that has the technical expertise and independence to 
effectively monitor both the programs and safety and soundness of Fannie Mac and 



^Google 



Freddie Mac. To cany out these functions, HUD should be given the financial and 
management support necessary to monitor and evaluate these entities and to enforce 
requirements necessary to ensure that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac maintain their 
UmiIcHi soundness and their ability to play an integral role in providing housing and 
mortgage credit We believe that the Committee's proposal, particularly the provisions 
which would allow HUD to hire qualified staff to cany out ha supervisory function*, 
would provide the necessary support 

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS TAILORED TO RISK 



NAHB strongly supports the principle that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac be 
adequately capitalized. The purpose of capital is to provide a cushion against losses. 
All the studies conducted thus far have concluded that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 
currently are adequately capitalized and would continue to be under the most severe 
economic conditions. Thus, the current focus should be on the proper approach to 
ensure that these entities continue to be adequately capitalized. 

In general, we believe that capital requirements for Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac should promote the ftntheM viability of these entities, but should also be sensitive 
to their housing mission and the unique nature of these institutions. Such requirements 
should be dearly related to the actual risks borne by the corporations, specifically those 
associated with the different types of mortgages, investment securities and guarantees 
provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and should recognize the steps the 
corporations have taken to reduce their risk exposure. 

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are exposed to three main source* of risk: credit 
risk, interest rate risk, and management and operations risk. Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac have reduced credit risk through strict underwriting, quality control and 
scller/servicer criteria which have lowered default rates at both agencies. Indeed, 
studies by both CBO and HUD have noted that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have 
lower default and foreclosure rates than the rest of the housing finance industry. 
Additionally, the geographic diversity of their mortgage purchases reduce* exposure to 
adverse economic conditions in a single region of the country. For example, when the 
Southwest suffered economic distress, purchases from other regions served a* a buffet. 

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have reduced their interest rate risk through 
simultaneous sales of mortgages that they purchase through their mortgage-backed 
securitie* (MBS) program*. In addition, Fannie Mae minimize* interest -rate risk on its 
sizeable portfolio holdings by maintaining a dote duration match between assets and 
liabilities. Freddie Mac employs a similar method for its smaller portfolio. (We note 
mat due to giinmti-h« in its portfolio, Fannie Mae experienced troubles in the early 



^Google 



1980» similar to thoie of the thrift industry. However, over the courts of the decade, 
Fannie Mae took corrective action that has resulted in a current clow duration match 
between it* aueti and liabilities.) 

The entities currently do not capitalize for management and operation! risk, but 
they have proposed to do so. Consistent with the recommendations of the GAO 
report Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have proposed an additional 10 percent add-on 
to the capital amounts needed for credit and interest rate risk to account for 
"unquantifiable" management and operations risk. This amount seems reasonable to us. 

In principle, we believe that a reasonable stress test is the best method for 
measuring and monitoring capital adequacy related to credit and interest rate risk. 
Bank and thrift risk-based capital standards are not appropriate capital standards for 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac because of the significant differences in the nature of the 
business of the GSEs and that of banks and thrifts: Fannie Mac and Freddie Mac have 
a national presence and are better diversified geographically than banks and thrifts; 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are restricted by statute to residential finance and cannot 
expand into other forms of lending; they have broad access to the national and 
international capital markets; and, they are assured of substantial guarantee fee income. 
An of these factors are ignored by the bank and thrift risk-based capital rules. 

However, we do not believe that economic stress tests should be used a* an 
exclusive measure of capital adequacy. Results of stress tests should be balanced 
against internal management and risk control measures (such as underwriting, quality 
control and seuer/servicer criteria) which both entities employ to reduce their risk 
exposure. Further, the implications of the stress tests should be balanced against 
Fannie Mac's and Freddie Mac's homing million. Excessive capital requirements based 
solely on the results of the stress teats could impair the ability of these entities to 
perform their bousing mtHsM 

Besides stress tests, we also believe that there should be a minimum capital 
standard to provide a base capital cushion. However, this standard should not be so 
high as to impede the operations of these entities and unnecessarily impact mortgage 
credit availability and affordability. 

Finally, and perhaps most important, NAHB strongly believes that the 
methodology and assumptions used in establishing capital standards should be 
thoroughly specified in statute. Giving the regulator complete discretion to establish 
capita] standards, as Treasury has proposed, could result in an excessively high capital 
standard that would have a damaging impact on the bousing and mortgage markets. As 
the CBO study recognized, any standard that requires Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to 
hold significantly higher capital than they currently do could result in higher interest 
costs far homebuyers and reduce the ability of the corporations to perform their 



!£ ibyG00gle 



housing in 1 ™"" Further, as the Committee points out in in anntyiis of the Treasury 
proposal, became of such regulatory discretion there would be no way for the Congress 
to balance housing mission with risk since Congress would not know what the eventual 
risk level would be. Only Congreu can provide the necenary balance by adopting clear 
mechanics for a system of capital standards in statute. 

In general, the Committee's proposal meets these broad parameters. As 
specified in the Committee print, the Committee proposes three levels of capital 
standards. First, a risk-based capital level based on stress tests that measure interest 
rate and credit risk, plus an additional amount to cover management and operations 
risk. The Committee's proposal adopts the stress test definitions for credit and interest 
rate risk proposed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, but double* the amount the 
enterprises have proposed for operations and management risk. Specifically, the 
proposal would require sufficient capital to withstand credit risk against a nationwide 
real estate depression for at least S years and, for interest rate risk, sufficient capital to 
withstand interest rate increases or decreases of 50 percent up to 500 basis point* for 8 
years. The Committee proposes an additional 20 percent addon to cover management 
and operations risk and provides the regulator discretion to increase (or decrease) this 
amount if the regulator believes this is warranted to reflect actual management and 
operations risk. 

The second capital level establishes a minimum capital standard, or leverage 
limit, on both a mark-to-markct and GAAP basis. The minimum capital standard 
proposed by the Committee adopts the standards proposed by Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mae mark-to-market equity of 2 percent of on-balance sheet assets and 1 percent of 
off-balance sheet assets and a GAAP component of 1.5 percent of on-balance sheet 
assets and £ percent of off-balance sheet assets. One significant difference between the 
Committee's proposal and that of the enterprises, is that the Committee's proposal 
would require the corporations to meet the minimum capital level without counting lost 



In contrast, tlw Treasury proposal sets a leverage limit of 2.5 percent of on- 
balance sheet assets and .45 percent of off-balance sheet assets, both measured on a 
OAAP basis. Fannie Mae currently meets this limit, while Freddie Mac falls slightly 
below it Treasury's proposed risk-based capital standard would, presumably be 
significantly higher than the leverage limit 

The third, and final, capital level proposed by the Committee is a critical capital 
level equal to one-half of the mrnirnum capital level. Treasury and Fannie Mac and 
Freddie Mac have also proposed critical levels equal to one-half of their re s pec ti ve 



^Google 



NAHB believe* that the Committee's approach to capital standards is superior to 
that proposed by Treasury. The specificity in the descriptions of the stress tests for 
capitalizing credit and interest rate risk provide a more reasonable and dynamic system 
of capital standards than that proposed by Treasury. In addition, the Committee's 
proposed standards are more consistent with the results of the several studies on the 
capital adequacy of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac At noted, all studies found that 
these corporations are adequately capitalized and able to withstand the severest of 
economic downturns. Yet, Treasury's proposal implies that the minimum risk-based 
level should be at a level significantly above the corporations' current capital positions. 
This proposal Is not supported by any of the studies, including Treasury's. 

Nevertheless, while we generally support the Committee's proposed capital 
standards, we have several concerns with the proposed capital add-on for management 
and operations risk. The proposed 20 percent add-on for management and operations 
risk seems unjustifiably high. As noted, GAO recommended an add-on of 10 percent. - 
A 20 percent add-on would be ten timet the loss incurred from Freddie Mac's multi- 
family experience. We do not believe it necessary to maintain this much additional 
capital. Further, we are concerned that the discretion given to the regulator to increase 
this amount could adversely affect the housing market should this level be set too high. 
Both the CBO and GAO studies cautioned that requiring too much capital could result 
in higher mortgage rates to homebuyers as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac increased fees 
to add to capital. Li addition, while we understand that given the "unquantifiable" 
nature of management and operations risk some discretion to increase this amount may 
be warranted, we are concerned that not only the amount, but also uncertainty over 
future adjustments could prevent Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from taking the risks to 
serve housing, through new product innovation or maintenance of existing housing 
programs with significant management risks. For these reasons, we strongly urge the 
Committee to reduce the add-on for management and operations risk to 10 percent and 
to establish an upper bound for discretionary additions to capital standards for 



ADEQUATE REGULATORY POWERS 

In addition to establishing capital standards, the Committee proposes that the 
regulator would have the power to enforce compliance with these capital standards, 
review the capital adequacy of new programs, and conduct examinations and audits of 
the corporations. NAHB believes that the enforcement and other powers granted the 
regulator under the Committee's proposal are better calibrated to relative levels of 
capital compliance and less disruptive to the achievement of the housing mission of 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac than are the provisions contained in the Treasury 
proposal. Nevcrtbekss, we have concerns with several of the provision* the Committee 



!£( by Google 



NAHB re cngniiea the i m p ort an ce of aflowing Fannie Mac and Fredthe Mac 
junpk leeway to respond in innovative way* to the rattioa 'i bousing need*, and feck 
IBM die level of regulatory mHwiun allowed in Ac Treasury proposal will block and 
rifle the creativity of tbete enterprise*. Even the Comnonee'i bin, which allow* much 
lea* rcfabuory intnarion, open* the poaribiftj dm tinieHaxa sumin g review* and 
■ ut a v oi a Mc capital aiirwmenti of new program* will hamper and even prevent Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac from lanBCMBf needed new program* and products. The impact 
of ■'■wi"g regulation could be particularly devastating to effort* a ime d at lower-income 



. Such program* abo could be irreparably 



NAHB doe* not believe, however, that compliance with capital standard* should 
mean mat Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac operate completely outside program approval 
and review. We feel that reasonable approval and review mechanic* can be established 
to ensure that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac continue their impressive string of 
program and product innovation*. Any tuch review* ihould be required to be 
completed within a period not to exceed 60 days, with no latitude for additional delay*. 
While new and existing program* ihould be viewed within the context of the c n titie*' 
capital adequacy, marginal capital requirements should not block the creativity that is 
needed to fulfill their housing mission. While approval and review should not be overly 
intrusive, the regulator ihould be granted the capacity to atture that the entities are 
operating within the bound* of their charter* and responding adequately to the full 
range of the nation'* homing finance need*. 

Further, NAHB believe* that it ii vital that any final GSE legislation clearly 
outline* mat regulatory responsibilities will be coordinated within HUD. We are 
concerned that new regulatory mandates may conflict or overlap with those established 
in FIRREA and previously, and that the resulting confusion and possibly contradictory 
direction could dangeroutly stall operations of these key components of the housing 



AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROVISIONS 



Under their charters and the direction of FIRREA, Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac should display a itrong leadership role in the financing of housing for low- and 
moderate-income families. In fact Fannie Mae ha* established a strong and impressive 
track record in this area. The corporation played a key role in providing 
horoeowneiship opportunities and affordable rental housing to low-and moderate- 
income families well before being required to do so in FIRREA. Freddie Mac, though 



^Google 



In the case of Fannie Mae, in 1987 the corporation created an Office of Low- 
d Mod era te-Income Homing. Since this ofBce wai created Fannie Mae has 
e than SIS billion in audi activities. This includes: 

more than S2 billion in commitment* under single-family community 
lending program*. In these program*, Fannie Mae world with local 
agencies, community groups and other organization) to make home 
purchases possible for families that can not access conventional financing 



■ the purchase of nearly S3 billion in mortgage revenue bonds and other 
tax-exempt bond* from state and local housing finance agencies, which are 
issued to fund mortgage* for low- and moderate-income first-time 
homebuyers as finance rental housing for such families; 

■ the provision of credit enhancement for another one-half billion dollar* in 
tax-exempt bonds; 

• commitments of more than $200 million in capital for rental projects using 
the low-income tax; credit program. All of these projects serve families 
with income* of no greater than 60 percent of the area median; 

• continued program innovations to stretch the range of housing needs met, 
including the "3/2" program that allows borrowers greater flexibility to 
cope with downpayment requirement* and a program to support 
employer-assisted housing. 

Fannie Mae has been extremely active in seeking and forming partnerships with 
other organizations for synergistic solutions to affordable housing problems. Fannie 
Mae is working with the AFL-CIO Housing Investment Trust to finance rental projects 
to serve tow-income families; with state governments like Pennsylvania and New Jersey 
to provide affordable home loans; with the Federal Home Loan Bank* to create a 
security to help Federal Home Loan Bank System members access the System's 
Affordable Housing Program; and, mod recently announced a program to provide a 
secondary market for affordable rural mortgage loan* guaranteed by the Farmer* Home 
Administration. Fannie Mae is also working with housing trade associations, including 
NAHB, to produce affordable housing. 

Freddie Mac, we are pleased to say, has also been active in developing programs 
to finance the housing of lower-income families. The corporation recently committed 
S3 billion to such programs over the next 18 months. Most recently, Freddie Mac 
teamed up with the AFL-CIO to provide assistance to union members buying their first 



!£ ibyG00gle 



u 

hone*. In addition, Freddie Mk is working with the state of Michigan to expand 
homeownenhip opportunitki of it* lower income resident*. Freddie Mae is also a 
major player in the National Community Development Initiative, an effort to expand 
the availability of low-income rental housing by providing a secondary market for $100 
million in low-income rental homing mortgages. The corporation alio Is providing 
secondary support to a variety of community-based affordable housing programs, and is 
expanding investments in low-income rental housing. 

In addition to these targeted efforts, a high proportion of the mortgages 
purchased by both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in their standard programs are tor 
amounts far below their statutory limits, and these purchases clearly benefit lower 
income families. For example, in 1990, despite a loan limit of $187,430, the average 
single-family mortgage purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac was SS9,700 and 
$87,000, respectively. Moreover, nearly one-third of the loans purchased by the 
corporations had balances below $60,000. Additionally, each corporation ha* recently 
moved to Incorporate it* low- and moderate-income housing activities within the 
mainstream of it* business. 

NAHB believes that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac both have a strong 
commitment to meeting the homing needs of low- and moderate-income families, and 
that the corporations have been on the cutting edge of innovative financing efforts in 
the area of affordable housing. We object to statutory, or even regulatory, 
requirements for affordable housing effort* that are so narrow as to tie the hand* of 
the corporations in carrying out this part of their mission. The Committee 1 * proposed 
dividend set-aside provision would have such an effect Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 
have been extremely creative and successful in addressing affordable housing need* and 
they mutt be allowed to retain a great deal of flexibility in doing so. Furthermore, 
whOe NAHB believe* that the operation* of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should be 
periodically reviewed to ensure that the benefit* of their government ties are adequately 
patted on to bomebuyen and renter*, rather than being excessively expended in 
dividend payout* or internal operating costs, the Committee') proposed requirement of 
regular (which could mean, dairy) fee and price monitoring (to ensure that the dividend 
set-aside I* not funded through increases in mortgage yields and fees) would be an 
operational nightmare that would smother the corporations' ability to function. 
Mortgage yields vary in the short-term for so many reasons (including market, 
competitive, and risk-related purpose*) that it would be difficult to determine if yield* 
had been increased to ensure compliance with this requirement Any such analysis 
would need to cover a lengthy period of time - a quarter of the year, or possibly 



!£ ibyG00gle 



IMPORTANCE AND FUTURE ROLE OF THE FHLB SYSTEM 



Title IV of the Committee's proposal establishes the safety and soundness of the 
Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) System as the primary responsibility of the Federal 
Housing Finance Board (FHFB). The FHLB System is very strongly capitalized, and, 
in fact, capital adequacy it not an issue for the System. What is at issue, however, is 
how to make the Bank System work more effectively to support residential finance 
while maintaining and enhancing its solid financial profile. 

The FHLB System was established more than SO years ago to serve several 
public policy objectives. One of these is to ensure liquidity in the deposit system. The 
second, and more important, is to promote homeownership by making mortgage credit 
consistently available and affordable. To these have been added a significant financial 
responsibility for the funding of the thrift bailout. However, the FHLBs will not be 
able to remain a critical force in carrying out these public policy objectives in an 
environment of shrinking System membership and declining FHLB earnings and capital 
The System's primary source of income - advances to members - has fallen off 
dramatically. Since Jury 31, 1989, just before the passage of FIRREA, FHLB advance* 
have declined 41% while the System's assets have declined by 21%. 

The FHLB System has the potential to be much more than an eroding support 
system tor a shrinking thrift industry. The FHLB System is at a crucial juncture where 
its resources should be redirected to bring it back into the mainstream of the housing 
funding process. The System could play an important rede in providing other types of 
credit services, such as loan purchases, participations and credit guarantee instruments, 
that would help its members to manage their lending activities with greater flexibility. 
This would help members diversify portfolios and meet demands for new tending that 
might otherwise be constrained by loan-to-onc-borrower limits or asset concentration 
considerations that could otherwise discourage them from putting real estate loans on 
their books. 

To achieve its public policy goals and obligations, the FHLB System must be 
allowed the latitude and the capacity to expand its focus from the declining thrift sector 
and to re-establish itself in the mainstream of the housing finance system. The 
problems of the System-eroding membership, declining traditional advances, and 
declining earnings-need to be addressed if the Banks are to attract and sustain a strong 
membership, create earnings opportunities, generate capital, and serve the broad 
spectrum of the bousing industry as a financially sound credit support network. 

Several of these problems can and should be addressed irrunediatery. These 
include equal access to advances by nonthrift member* and unlimited use of residential 



!£ ibyG00gle 



assets as collateral for FHLB advance*. Other change* to the System - new credit 
producti and services — may require further study before legislative action it taken. 



Equal Acccm to Advance* by Noothrift Members 

The marginal itock purchase requirement for advances, which is tied to the 
Qualified Thrift Lender (QTL) test, should be changed in order to eliminate the 
disadvantage) inherent for nonthrift members. While QTL thrifts may borrow 
S20 per SI of stock owned, nonthrift* (which almost by definition will not meet 
the QTL test) may borrow only at a ratio that declines significantly in proportion 
to the size of their actual mortgage asset portfolio. 

Nonthrift members face further discrimination in advances by the provision in 
the FHLB Act that prohibits any Bank from having more than 30% of its 
advances outstanding to nonthrift members. Several Banks are approaching that 
limit now, and they win be forced to curtail their lending and impair their 
earnings potential if this limit remains in effect 

To correct these inequities, we urge Congress to eliminate Section 10(e)(1) of 
the FHLB Act, which now requires that members that do not meet the thrift 
QTL be subject to borrowing limits. We also urge Congress to delete Section 
10(e)(2) and thereby eliminate the 30% cap on the amount of advances that a 



The caps on the amount of housing-related assets that member institutions can 
use to collateralize advances should be removed. Currently, only a narrowly 
defined group of government securities, first mortgages and mortgage-backed 
securities may be used without restriction to secure advances. There are 
substantial restrictions on the use of participation interests in residential loans, 
residential production loans, nontraditional mortgage-related securities, and 
nonresidential real estate as advance collateral. Such collateral may not, in 
combination, exceed 30% of the member institution's capital. 

NAHB strongly urges Congress to remove the caps on eligible residential-related 
collateral, but not far nonresidential real estate, by amending Section 10(a) of 
the FHLB Act accordingly. 



^Google 



Sty^ «. fVedh Produea and SctviccK 

NAHB belicvei thai one or more studies should be conducted si the federal 
level, which would evaluate the roiei of the FHLB System in promoting residential 
finance. In particular, the study should determine what actioru are necessary to (1) 
sustain financial stability in the Bank System; (2) expand the role of the System as a 
nipport mechanism for community-based housing lenders; and (3) enhance Hi members' 
ability to provide credit for both the consumers and producers of housing. 



CONCLUSION 



In summary, let me reiterate that NAHB strongly supports the safety and 
u of Fannie Mac and Freddie Mac, balanced against the housing mission of 
these corporations. We believe that the Committee's proposal comes close to achieving 
tins balance between financial well-being and public purpose and is superior to the 
Treasury's proposal which would impose unnecessary and excessive regulations that 
would impede the ability of these corporations to perform their integral role in the 



NAHB strongly believes that HUD is the appropriate regulator to oversee both ■ 
the program and financial responsibilities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac We 
generally support the Committee's approach to capital standards for these entities and 
believe that the Committee's proposal is superior to that proposed by Treasury because 
of its specificity and the linking of these standards to the actual risks of the 
corp ora tions. NAHB aba believes that the enforcement and other powers granted the 
regulator under the Committee's proposal are better calibrated to relative levels of 
capita] compliance and less disruptive to the achievement of the housing mission of 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac than are the provision) contained in the Treasury 
proposal. However, we do not believe that compliance with capital standards should 
mean that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac operate completely outside of program 



In the area of affordable housing, NAHB believes that Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac both have a strong commitment to meeting the housing needs of low- and 
moderate-income families, and that the corporations have been on the cutting edge of 
innovative financing effort* in the area of affordable housing. We object to statutory, 
or even regulatory, requirements for affordable housing efforts that are so narrow as to 
tie the hands of the corporations in carrying out this part of their mission. We caution 
that the Committee's proposed dividend set-aside provision would have such an effect. 



^Google 



16 

Finally, we believe that the Federal Home Loan Bank System, is at a crucial 
juncture where its resources should be redirected to bring it back into the mainstream 
of the housing funding process. The System could play an important role in providing 
other types of credit services, such as loan purchases, participations and credit 
guarantee Instruments, that would help its members to manage their lending activities 
with greater flexibility. To achieve its public policy goals and obligations, several 
problems should be addressed immediately. These include equal access to advances by 
nonthrift members and unlimited use of residential assets as collateral for FHLB 
advances. Other changes to the System — new credit products and services - may 
require further study before legislative action is taken. 

As this Subcommittee, and the entire Congress, deliberates in the upcoming 
weeks how to update the supervision and regulation of the housing-related GSEs with 
respect to safety and soundness, I hope the comments I have made verbally and in 
writing today will be considered in the constructive spirit in which I have made them. 
Thank you again for giving NAHB the opportunity to be pan of your GSE supervisory 



!£ ibyG00gle 



STATEMENT OF 



DAVID F.HOLLAND 

CHAIRMAN AND CEO 

BOSTON FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK 

BURLINGTON, MASSACHUSETTS 



ON BEHALF OF THE 
U.S. LEAGUE OF SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS 

BEFORE THE 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 

OF THE 

COMMITTEE ON BANKING, FINANCE AND URBAN AFFAIRS 

UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 



3ij,sz,db»Google 



The three government-sponsored homing enterprises (GSEs) now have on- and off-book 
liabilities which exceed those of the surviving thrift business and amount to one-third of the 
total liabilities of the commercial banking industry. Given this situation, the U.S. League 
of Savings Institutions believes that it is essential that a new and improved framework be 
developed to regulate and supervise these entities. 

In this regard, we want to commend the sponsors of the proposed, "Government-Sponsored 
Housing Enterprises Financial Safety ft Soundness Act of 1991.' We believe this proposed 
legislation sets the stage for the creation of the new framework that is so badly needed 

Further, we want to offer our very strong support for the proposed efforts to increase the 
availability of financing for affordable bousing and to improve the safety and soundness of 
these housing GSEs, Still, we would urge the Subcommittee to go further in both of these 
areas. 

With respect to affordable housing, we strongly support the provisions to improve the 
targeting of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac lending to low- and moderate-income families. 
We applaud your definitions of these groups. We would respectfully suggest, however, that 
the Congress determine in statute the appropriate percentage of these entities' lending that 
should go to families in need. We believe this percentage should be significant (e.g. one- 
third) and that it should be increased over each of the next several yean. Furthermore, 
where the proposal stipulates that these loans provide a 'reasonable economic return' to 
the agencies we would suggest that this be interpreted to mean that the agencies are able to 
make a reasonable return on their total portfolio rather than on these loans in isolation. 

In addition, we want to strongly endorse the effort to include Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 
in the affordable housing effort We believe that the 20% of dividends figure would be 
roughly equal to the amount now being contributed by the FHLBanks (and would be even 
lower when tax-effected). We would hope that provisions could be added which provide 
for this percentage to increase comparably with the scheduled increases in the FHLBank 
program. 

With respect to capital, the U.S. League believes that all f™n^i»i institutions including the 
housing GSEs need strong capital and aggressive supervision. The debacle of the 1980s has 
taught us this lesson all too well. We support the application of the current international 
risk-based capital rules to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We also support the Treasury- 
proposed capital rules for these two entities as a minimum. 

Further, we support the CBO contention that there should be capital requirement equity 
between the three housing GSEs (Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and FHLBanks). Thus, we 
would urge the Subcommittee to re-evaluate this issue. 



ibyGoogle 



Finally, the thrift industry views the future of the FHLBanks u vital to its own future. 
Although the FHLBank System remains strong, there are valid concerns about its future. 

The Bank System has been shrinking along with the thrift business. This has not been a 
problem in the past but it is now with the passage of FIRREA. 

As the Bank System shrinks, tbe $300 million lump sum annual fee paid by the Bank 
System for REFCORP becomes an increasingly untenable burden. We urge that this fee 
be changed from a lump sum to a percentage of income basis. 

Regardless, we do not agree with those who suggest that the current trends at the Bank 
System are reason for panic. We do not support suggestions that the Bank System should 
get into new risky activities to boost its earnings. 

Further, we are very concerned about proposals to change commercial bank membership 
and stock purchase requirements. We believe that the current system is fair, given existing 
mandatory membership and thrift QTL requirements. Of course, if we can achieve 
voluntary membership for all members, then we believe Stock purchase and Other 
membership requirements should be the same for all members. Any such change should 
only occur, however, once voluntary membership is in place. 

Finally, we believe that tbe most desirable course for the FHLBaruts in response to the 
shrinking demand for advances is to sharply reduce their costs. Although this is a very 
difficult process, it is essential. 

Once again, the U.S. League of Savings Institutions strongly supports the Subcommittee's 

efforts. We want to thank you for this opportunity to make our views known. 



3y Google 



Mr. gwlWMB and memben of the Oomrmttcc : 

My name it David Holland. I am ?*"■""■" and CEO of Boston Federal Savings Bank, a 
$550 million, SAJF-iMured wings bank headquartered in Burlington, Massachusetts. 
Today, I appear before you on behalf of the U.S. League of Savings Institutions. Mr. 
Chairman, we greatly appreciate the opportunity afforded us to appear before your 
Committee. 

To begin with, Mr. Chairman, we want to commend you and tbe other sponsors of the 
proposed Government-Sponsored Housing Enterprises Financial Safety A Soundness Act 
of 1991. We believe it is essential that tbe nation develop ■ new framework for dealing 
with the housing GSEs. We believe your proposals set the stage for tbe development of 
that new framework. 

In particular, we want you to know that we strongly support your efforts in two areas: 
promoting safety and soundness and promoting low- and moderate-income bousing. 

During my testimony today, I want to address the major areas of this proposed legislation. 
We believe your proposals are essential and are beaded in the right direction. We believe, 
however, that tbe proposals do not go far enough and would like to see them strengthened. 

[ would also like to briefly address tbe issue of the Federal Home Loan Bank System. As 
you know, the future of tbe FHLB System is a vital interest of tbe thrift business. 

INTHODllf-nON 

Everyone associated with bousing finance recognizes tbe vital role played by Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac in home financing. This is particularly true in tbe thrift industry. 

Our industry has experienced unequalcd turmoil over the past decade. During that time, 
we have used the secondary market to help us adjust our asset holdings and continue our 
mortgage origination efforts. Thus, we place a very high value on the liquidity provided the 
mortgage business by the so-called secondary market 

Even as our industry has been shrinking, we remain active in mortgage finance. Healthy 
firms continue to build their mortgage portfolios, and although tbe data show that we no 
longer dominate residential mortgage finance, we remain major mortgage portfolio 
lenders. We are also major buyers and sellers of residential mortgages and major holders 
of mortgage securities. 

In 1990, healthy savings institutions made (96.8 billion in home purchase loans, an increase 
of 3.69b over 1989. Those same thrifts increased their holdings of whole mortgage loans 

3.1%, from 1391.5 billion to $403.4 billion. They also did a fair amount of business with the 
secondary mortgage market, as evidenced by a 12J% increase in mortgage -backed 
securities holdings, from $93 billion to $104.6 billion. 



!£ ibyG00gle 



Obviously, it it in our interest to see Funic Mae and Freddie Mac remain strong and for 
the secondary market to be liable and available to die thrift business. We do not want to 
tee anything done which would ri f ma gt either of these important government sponsored 
enterprises (GSEs) or the secondary market. 

While we value the role played by these agencies in mortgage finance, we also see them as 
privileged competitors. As noted earlier, the thrift industry is no longer the nation's major 
supplier of mortgage credit A recent GAO study*") makes dear that this it no longer the 
case. It also attempts to explain why the thrift industry's role in bousing finance has been 
significantly reduced. 

For example, the GAO observes: "Compared to earlier times, the returns from mortgages 
have been lowered by the development of MBS, the risk is higher because of volatile 
interest rates, and thrift costs have been increased by post-crisis reforms." This report goes 
on to note that The privileges once granted thrifts in return for their commitment to the 

business of home financing have gradually been eroded." 

Add to these structural changes the shrinkage of the industry as the failures of the past are 
cleaned up and a* viable companies adjust their assets to today's higher capital standards 
and many observers ask whether the business has a future. Unfortunately, the answer is 
not all that dear. 

What we know is that there is a healthy core of thrift institution*. We know these firms 
have continued to specialize in housing finance and want to continue to do so. We also 
know that the observations of the GAO and others concerning the factors depressing thrift 
profitability are very real. 

In our view, the time has passed for the future of the thrift business to depend upon 
government fiat We no longer expect special privileges in return for our being dedicated 
to housing finance. We are more than willing to compete on a "level playing field" and let 
the marketplace determine our future. 

Given such a competitive environment, we think the Congress should go about creating a 
system which allows thrifts and other depositories to choose their charter freely. By 
lowering the barriers to free movement by depositories we can allow the marketplace to 
decide the future of not only the thrift business but all financial institutions. 

For this process to work, however, there must be every effort made to create competitive 
equality. In this regard, we have some- significant concerns about the current tr 
the GSEs operating in the mortgage market. 



(1) nriflimulHamitirtiunct,VS. Gcacml Acojuiliiif Office, Wt^uitin", D.C, Apcfl 199L 



idbyGOOgle 



846 



Tbe Federal National Mortgage Association and the Fedenil Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation compete with private-sector financial insthutioei in die mortgage market At 
table 1 shows, these institutions' involvement In tbe marketplace bat grown to explosively 
over the past two decades that tbey are now among tbe largest financial institutions in tbe 
world. 



1970 $13.2 Billion 

I960 $73 M Billion 

1990 $751 J Billion 



These agencies enjoy three competitive advantages over other participams in the market: 

1. They are subject to virtually no capital requirements and bold equity capital equal 
to one-quarter to one-sixth of that required of regulated, insured depositories who 
bold mortgages. This means that the same level nf earnings at tbe agencies and at a 
private financial institution would produce at least quadruple the return on capital 
tor tbe FNMA and FHLMC 

Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's low capital levels not only give them a huge 
competitive advantage over private firms, tbey are also advantaged relative to tbe 
Federal Home Loan Bank System which maintain^ equity, as a percent of total 



!£ ibyG00gle 



2. Hie obligations that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac issue in the marketplace are 
universally accented as carrying the implicit backing of the federal government. Yet 
the agencies do not pay any fee to the government for that imprimatur. Thedeposit 
obligations of insured fi«n™i institutions are also backed by the government but 
banks and thrift* have to pay almost a quarter of a percentage point for that 
coverage. 

'■' 6 ' ' ' 

3. At I mentioned previously, FMkfA and FHLMC are huge rbttncjal institutions. 
Tbey thereby enjoy tremendei economies of scale, which are an the more 
significant given their concentration in one line of business, a rather simple one at 
that No private institution in the country can match those economies. 

We would not object to the third of these advantages, the economies of scale iht agencies 
can employ (except to note that they would not have been able to grow to their current size 
were it not for the other competitive advantages given them, particularly the ability to grow 
without adequate capital backing their growth). Efficiency is good for the economy and if 
someone, operating under the same rules, can do our job better and more cheaply than we 
can, then more power to them. 

There is an analogy in the commercial banking business. Several observers hold that the 
large banks have lost their best customers — the General Motors, General Electrics and 
IBMs of the world - because the capital markets can serve these big companies more 
efficiently than the banks can. That Is what our capitalist system it about and the nation's 
consumer* benefit from the decreased costs. 

If the private securitization of the mortgage market by Wall Street had also made life 
difficult for thrifts, then we also would have little to complain about Yes, Wall Street hi a 
big player in the secondary market for mortgages but participates primarily by trading the 

government-advantaged securities of the GSEs. 



xibyGooyle 



The stock market recognizes the unique advantages of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. As 
table 2 shows, the market value of the GSEi relative to their book value at the end of the 
first quarter of this year was two and one half to three times that of the largest thrifts in the 
country. Marry smaller publicly owned thrift institutions have even lower market-to-book 
values than the figures here would indicate. 

lattJl M.rtalVaia«MBFW«wrflt«lrV«l-*. 
FNMA«»dFMMC Ta.2SLaraeet Thrifts 

(End of First Quarter, 1991) 

Market Value Ratio of GSE 

As a Percent Value to 

nfBnnkVahie Thrift V.l,. ? 

Federal National Mortgage Association 233% 3.1 

Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 214% Z6 

Average for Twenty-Five Largest Thrifts 83% N/A 



From a public policy point of view, the difficulties the preferred position of the GSEi cause 
for thrifts is not the only problem - although even here there is an impact on the taxpayer 
because of the added costs for the RTC of increased numbers of thrift failure* and of the 
increas e d coat of disposing of those who fail. There is the additional exposure to the 
taxpayer from the GSEs themselves as a result of their enormous size and their low capital 

There are several Ironies that arise from this situation: 

1. In FIRREA and in the legislative proposals Congress It currently considering, a 
great deal of emphasis was, and is, being appropriately put on me importance of 
capital in insured depositories as a protection tor the taxpayer. Many thrifts and 
banks have a great deal of difficulty in raising the additional needed capital. Table 
2 above shows that the market would be receptive to providing additional capital to 
Fanni* Mae and Freddie Mac whose current capital position is much lower man 
that being required of depositories. Yet the GSEi are being allowed to continue 
with their low capital positions even though It expos es the taxpayer to riek. 
Meanwhile raising the capital of thrifts without requiring the lame of the GSEs oeiy 
exacerbates the already formidable competitive edge given to the GSEs. 

2. As a concomitant to risk-baaed capital as a risk-inhibitor, Congress at also in the 
process of deciding whether to impose risk-based deposit insurance premium* on 



!£ ibyG00gle 



inured institutions. Yet Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are allowed to operate at 
capital levels not allowed to insured institutions while at the same time paying 
nothing, risk-based or otherwise, for their guarantee. 

3. The government requires thrifts, by the provisions of the Qualified Thrift Lender 
Test, to concentrate their investment activities in home mortgages while the 
advantages given to the agencies sponsored by the same government make it 
extremely difficult for thrifts to profitably operate in the market to which they have 
been assigned. 

That almost two thousand thrifts made il through the extraordinarily difficult years of the 
1980s in reasonably good shape would lead one to believe that they arc virtually 
indestructible. However, the competitive inequities we face vis-a-vis the GSEs makes it 
very difficult for these institutions to earn a sufficient return to either build capital on their 
own or attract it from outside. 

There is still a sliver of the mortgage market - that for non-conforming loans - where the 
agencies have not squeezed the profit margins (and it is interesting that some of the most 
healthy thrifts are located in the high-priced housing markets of California). Furthermore, 
» the RTC deans up moribund thrifts, we hope to see the cost of our funds decreasing, 
thereby opening up our spreads somewhat 

Nonetheless, the jury is still out on how many of our institutions can continue to survive 
and prosper. It is obviously up to Congress to decide whether or not FNMA and FHLMC 
are to be the agents for delivering housing-finance services to the American people. 
However, to the m 
ratal la soaMCMt 

for resolving failed thrifts will be commeasurately increased. In short, the preferences 
given the CSEs are not only a problem for our institutions; they are also a potential 
ongoing problem for the taxpayer, 

m samaaaaaBoaasmMD housing msoumuu financial mm 

* SOUNDNESS ACT OF 1WI 

As we have tried to convey in the foregoing discussion, we look at Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac both as essential to housing finance and as highly privileged competitors. No on* can 
deny that these firm have the best financial institution charter in existence today. Nor, can 
anyone deny that they serve an important purpose in residential finance. ! 

Further, our experience with the debacle of the 1980s has shown us as an industry that we 
must always keep safety and soundness foremost in our minds. Capital, strong regulation 
and aggressive supervision are essential to the maintenance of our nation's financial 
institutions. We believe these concepts apply equally to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 



^Google 



recognize that these entities also have a special role in support of low- and 
e buyers. We understand that a careful balance mutt be .struck 
between serving these very important needs, safety and sound pen, and competitive equity. 

Unfortunately, we believe that this situation is currently significantly nut of. balance. 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are no longer focused on low- and moderate-income 
households. Further, while the regulation, supervision, and capital requirement* of all 
other financial institutions have increased substantially, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 
remain largely unaffected. 

Once again, Mr. Chairman, we applaud the effort of this legislation to right this situation. 
We respectfully suggest, however, that more mint be done. In this regard, we are most 
concerned about two major areas: affordable housing and capital, 

AFFORDABLE HOUSING 

As noted earlier, we believe Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have a fin«n«fi institution 
franchise which is the envy of everyone in the financial sector. This super franchise has 
allowed these firms to grow rapidly while making terrific profits. 

In our view, the great success of these entities has not resulted from their efforts to 
aggressively serve low- and moderate- income bo r rowers as the Congress bat mandated. 
Instead, they are progressively taking over the middle- and upper-income housing market 

which can be adequately served by the private sector. 

For example, during the past six years, the agencies have increased their loan limits by 66% 
while the median selling price of existing homes has gone up only 26%. 

In fact, the current loan limit of S 191,250 uow covers 80% of all U.S. households. At the 
upper end of the linrit, borrowers must have an annual income of more than $82,000 to 

qualify for a loan. 

Further, we are told that the implicit guarantee of the obligations of Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac create a benefit of between S2 billion and S4 billion a year. Still, only a part 
of this is shared with low- and moderate-income families. 

Of course, the benefits of this agency guarantee also go to real estate investors and 
speculators. -In addition, a large share goes to borrowers who are refinancing their 
mortgages in order to obtain funds for purposes other than housing. Of course, Fannie 
Mat and Freddie Mao lapcafrcactohmaeilwiieiarfHed rignififntiy fan tt^ aajsttnoaof 
the federal government's guarantee. 

In our view, the time has come for the Congress to better target Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac's lending. In this regard, Mr. Chairman, we strongly support your proposals that 
would require that a reasonable portion of Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's mortgage 



!£ ibyG00gle 



purchases be related to the national goal of providing adequate bousing for low- and 
moderate-income families. Further, we applaud the fact that you provide a specific 
definition for what constitutes tow and moderate income. 

We would urge you to go farther, however, and set some precise lending percentages. We 
would also suggest that that percentage be increased each year over the next four or five 

Furthermore, where the proposal stipulates that these loans provide a "reasonable 
economic return* to the agencies we would suggest that this be interpreted to mean that the 
agencies arc able to make a reasonable return on their total portfolio rather than on these 
loans in isolation. 

Should one-third or one-half of these bousing GSEs lending go to low- and moderate- 
income? We don't know the answer, but we believe it should be a substantial percentage. 

We also want to strongly endorse your proposal, Mr. Chairman, to have Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac contribute to an affordable bousing program. As proposed, this program 
would require that these entities set aside 20% of the dividends paid in the prior year. 
Currently, this could equate to about 4% or 5% of earnings. And since these contributions 
would be tax-deductible, the impact on the agencies would be commensuratcry reduced. 

The Congress imposed a 5%-of-eamings program on the FHLBanks in FTRREA. 
However, the assessment in this case increases to 6% of earnings in 1994 and 10% in 1995. 
We believe a similar increase is warranted for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

Once again, Mr. Chairman, we believe better targeting of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's 

lending activities is essential. We applaud your proposals in this regard and encourage you 
to strengthen them. 



Among the many lessons to be teamed from the thrift debacle, one stands out above all 
others: safety and soundness demands that financial institutions be adequately capitalized. 

During the 1980s, Congress and the public learned that the combination of federal 
guarantees and low capital levels could lead to a disaster for the taxpayer. As a result. 
FfRREA mandated tough new capital standards, including risk-based standards, for thrift 
institutions. These new standards were essential if the taxpayer's future loss exposure was 
to be minimized. 

In ear view, It ataket an tease to exempt FanaVt Mae and Freddie Mac from these risk- 
based g-ddatliet. What the risk-based guidelines tell us is that given the portfolio structure 
of these federal credit agencies, they are significantly undercapitalized. 



id by Google 



For government-guaranteed entities, capital is widely and validly regarded as the buffer 
thai protects the taxpaying public against potential losses. For commercial banks, and lor 
thrifts in the past, the deposit insurance trust funds build up through insurance assessments 
represent a second wall of protection for taxpayers. (Unfortunately, even the combination 
of these two bulwarks proved an inadequate protection.) 

Whh the GSF-s, the trait hud reserves do not exist. If, hi addition, their capital li also 
very low, then the concern that the taxpayer Is highly exposed It a legitinute concern. 

For the record, we would also note that thrifts and commercial banks pay billions of dollars 
in fees on their deposit insurance guarantees each year. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac pay 



Of course these coitrpanies and their constituencies argue that the rules for ail other 
financial institutions should not apply to them. They have developed their own risk 
measures and deem themselves to be well-capitalized. Besides, they plan to increase their 
capital in the future. 

These are the same kinds of arguments that were made by so many of today's failed thrifts 
in the past Each had limited its risk exposure in all kinds of ways. Each was going to build 
its capital in the future. These arguments no longer are acceptable in the thrift industry 
and never should have been accepted by thrift regulators. They should not be acceptable 
for Fannie Mm and Freddie Mac. 

Clearly, our arguments that competitive equity requires that the risk-based capital rules be 
applied to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have not garnered the support they deserve. As a 
result, we strongly endorsed the capital requirements proposed by the Treasury as a 



Thus, we were greatly saddened to see the Treasury's minimal requirements further 
weakened in the proposals before the Subcommittee. We would urge you to strengthen 
these requirements now while Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have easy access to the capital 
markets. Do not wait until it is too late as was the case for hundreds of thrifts. 

Further, we would note that the proposed legislation gives the independent regulator 
exclusive authority to establish risk-based capital standards, but only against new products 
and programs to be offered by Fannie Mac and Freddie Mac. Since capital standards are 
the key to financial safety and soundness, we would urge you to give the independent 
regulator exclusive authority over all risk-based capital standards. 

Finally, as far as capital is concerned, we would urge you to give careful consideration to 
the recent CBO study entitled, "Controlling the Risks of Government-Sponsored 
Enterprises.* In that study, the CBO points out that there is a big difference in the capital 
requirements of the FHLBanks as compared to those of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 

Page 11 



!£ ibyG00gle 



They suggest, >nd we agree, that this situation pun the FHLBtnk* and the private sector 
firms that use them at a severe competitive disadvantage. 

The CBO argues that if the capital standards for all housing OSEs were equalized it would 
represent 'a step toward leveling the playing Geld in the bousing finance system." We 
emphatically agree and urge you to correct the situation. 

THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN RANK SYSTEM 

Mr. Chairman, the thrift business cannot address the issue of the housing GSEs without 
also raising the topic of the FHLBank System. Obviously, the future of the tltLBanks is of 
vital concern to the thrift Industry. 

A hallmark of the FHLB System's past operations ha* been its stability. The System has 
the highest capital ratio of any government-sponsored enterprise. It hat never experienced 



The historic mission of the FHLB System has been to increase the availability of funds for 
mortgage finance. It has accomplished this goal in two ways: 



It makes long-term loans, commonly called advances, u 
a the bomebuying pubb'c; and 



2. It supplies a liquidity facility for residential mortgage lenders. This has allowed 
thrifts investing in mortgages to bold lower levels of liquidity than would otherwise 
be the case, making more funds available for mortgages. 

With the passage of FDtREA, the FHLB System took on another mission which involved 
the operation of a new Affordable Housing Program (AHP). The System provides funds 
for this program and sees that they are used to help low income home buyers. 

Of course, FTRREA did a lot more to the FHLB System than simply provide it with a new 
mission. It took the retained earnings of the FHLBanks to help pay for the FSLIC disaster. 
It also placed an annual assessment of $300 million on the System to help pay for 
REFCORP bonds. 

In addition to these direct burdens, FTRREA had an indirect effect on the FHLB System as 
it impacted the System's member thrifts. FTRREA re-instituted meaningful capital 
requirements for thrifts. It also began the process of deaning-up institutions that, though 
insolvent, had been operating for years. The combined effect of these much needed 
reforms was a «igniH«iit shrinkage of the thrift industry. 

The VS. League of Savings Institutions has studied the future of the FHLB System, and 

has arrived at a seriei findings. 1 will limit the discussion here to actions that require 
legislative action. 



!£ ibyG00gle 



jCnQHS cfflHffin to insure safety a soundness 



Thai turned out to be a high point for the System. Since then, it hat undergone steady 
contraction. By May 1991, its total assets bad fallen to $153.1 billion, a drop of 2196 from 
the peak level. This decline was led by a sharp 40% fall in advances to members, from 
$164 3 billion to $98.7 billion. 

This is not the first tune the System has shrunk. Total advances declined in 1971, 1975, 
1976 and 1983. These years coincided with the end of tight credit periods. As a 
countercyclical supplier of liquidity, a drop in advances at those turning points was to be 



The available evidence seems to suggest that the System will continue to operate in a 
shrinkage mode for a few more years. This means the dollar earnings of the System will 
also decline from current levels. 

At the end of March 1991, the RTC reported that institutions under its control accounted 
for $9 billion in advances. According to the OTS, institutions slated for transfer to the 

RTC held another 111 billion in advances. 

Once the RTC resolves its current and future case load, the Bank System will lose this S20 
billion in lending business. Thus, RTC actions alone will likely reduce advances to around 
$87 billion, 19% below outstandings as of March 1991. 



In the past, the System adjusted very well as the need for the funds it provided rose and 
declined in response to the economy. Earnings, dividends and stock holdings adjusted 
almost automatically to the changing demands on the System. 

What has changed is that FTRREA created a Oat dollar assessment on the FHLBanks for 

funding the Resolution Funding Corporation. Worse, this flat rate was based on tbe size of 
the System at its peak point in the 1980s. 

As the System shrinks, its net income will decline. The problem for its member-owner 
savings institutions is that, regardless of how much the System contracts, it must still 
contribute $300 million a year to the REFCORP funding. 

That this is a problem for member-owner savings institutions was recognized in a report by 
Moody's that reaffirmed the System's solid rating vis-a-vis its ability to service its 
consolidated obligations. To assuage the possible fears of those who lend funds to the 
Bank System, Moody's made the following two statements; 



^Google 



The 1300 million in yearly payment* to Refcorp alio constrain the 
FHLBcnks' internal capital generation capacity. However, the brunt of the»e 
a will probably be borne by shareholder/members in the form of 



"Because FHLBank Hock is carried on member/owners' balance sheen at 
par, toy U.S. Government expropriation of FHLBank capital beyond their 
retained earnings would require members to write down their FHLBank 
stock, resulting in losses and weakening the capita] of insured depository 
institutions, many of which are already in a precarious state. This provides 
FHLBank creditors additional capital protection.* 

All of this points to the need to change the flat rate charge against the Bank System's 
earnings to a percentage charge. This would stabilize the dividend yields paid by the 
System. It would relieve the pressure on the Bank System to grow or enter new business 
lines to increase dollar income, regardless of the return on equity of such ventures. 

Without this change, the savings institution members are concerned that the Bank System 
policy will be driven by the need to boost dollar earnings (in order to meet these flat dollar 
charges and also pay a market rate of return on the stock Investment), without regard to 
the risk-adjusted return of such new ventures. 

In order for the System to generate a high return, It probably will have to engage in high- 
risk activities. Member savings institutions oppose the System's entry into any new business 
lines that would expose their stock investment to potential losses. For example, the savings 
institution business would be deeply troubled if the System began to make, purchase or 
securitize acquisition, construction and development loans. 

This concern about the safety of the stock investment Is especially justifiable for manda t o r y 
members, those that have no choice but to own a minimum amount of stock. In any other 
stock organization, if an owner feels that the corporation's activities might result in a 
depreciation or complete loss of the stock investment, the owner can sell the stock. This is 
not the case with the majority of the owners of the Bank System. As captive stockholders, 
mandatory members need protection for their own capital through a guarantee that the 
System will not engage in any activity that could force a partial or complete write-down of 
their stock investment. 

FIRRBA established a new regulator for the FHLB System - the Federal Housing Finance 
Board - to assume the functions of the former Federal Home Loan Bank Board vis-a-vis 
the FHLB System. The FHFB has the authority to supervise the FHLBanks and it must 
e that the Federal Home Loan Banks are operated prudently to protect both the 
at of member institutions. 



^Google 



The System could also try to generate higher return* by competing directly with in 
member* rather than through entering into high-risk ventures. In essence, the Bank System 
could use its GSE status to gain an advantage over its own members in offering various 
products and services. 

The FHLBanks should concentrate on improving the quality and profitability of products 
and services that they currently offer. Its members should be encouraged to make use of 
such products and services. The FHLBanks should not engage in products and services 

that are in competition with their stockholders. 

Does tins doom the FHLB System to declining profits as it shrinks in the relatively near 
term? It does not. lucre is a very safe way the FHLB System can improve its earnings: by 
reducing its cost of operations. 

As a whole, the System operates quite efficiently. The expense performance of individual 
Banks, however, varies widely. If all the Banks operated at the lowest cost currently 
exhibited by a Bank in the System, the System's net income would increase by roughly ISO 



A more exhaustive analysis should be done to determine precisely how much money the 
System could save by having all the Banks operate at the same high level of efficiency. 
Options may include consolidation of Banks to take advantage of economies of scale and 

processing, or the consolidation under one Bank of a paiticulai service currently offered by 
one or mote Banks. 

In the case of consolidating whole Banks, special attention would have to be given to 
merging the Banks on an equitable basis for existing members. For example, some Banks 
have a high level of funds in the dividend stabilization reserve (DSR) relative to then- 
capita] stock. The DSRs would have to be allocated on an. equitable basis to a Bank's 
existing members before a merger could be effected. 

This idea of consolidating banks or functions will not be easy. Merger and cost cutting are 
never painless. But as has been demonstrated time and again in the banking and savings 
institutions businesses, it is a necessary step to ensure survival. 

In sum, the current concern over the future of the Federal Home Loan Bank System is 
driven by the need to meet the flat dollar assessment imposed on it by FTRREA. This is 
what is behind the System's rush to enter new lines of business and ease the eligibility 
requirements for new members and borrowers. That is a poor way to conduct public 
policy, especially when what is being put at risk is a $10 billion investment held by 



The member-owners of the System have two objectives. One is to preserve the value of the 

stock and the other is to see that the stock investment pays a market rate of return. 



xibyGooyle 



The member- owners are not seeking a higher dividend if the price is the System engaging 
in high-risk ventures or activities thai compete with its members. Such risks could result in 
a write-down of the FHLBanks stock value. 

By making the REFCORP levy a percentage of income and by having the FHLBanks 
concentrate on what they do best and reducing their operating costs, the stock investment 
of member-owners will be protected, the System will continue to pay a market dividend 
yield, and the REFCORP and the AHP will be guaranteed > regular flow of funds. 

TUB NF.KP FOR YQbUNXWY MEMBERSHIP 

Language in FIRREA nude membership in the FHLBanks possible for commercial banks 
and credit unions. Any commercial bank with 10% of Its assets in the form of home 
mortgages and mortgage-backed securities is eligible for membership. As of December 31, 
1990, 9,675 banks with $2.4 trillion in assets met this test. These banks accounted for 78% 
of the banking industry by number and 70% by assets. 

If a bank elects to become a member, it must purchase stock equal to 1% of its home 
mortgage assets, with a minimum investment equal to 0396 of assets. If it borrows from 
the System, it must purchase additional stock such that its total stock investment equals 5% 
of Its advances divided by its "actual thrift investment percentage" as computed under the 
Qualified Thrift Lender test 

Some claim that these Stock purchase requirements are too restrictive, making it 
uneconomical for commercial banks to borrow from the System. This is simply not the case. 

In the first place, the home mortgage investment percentage that a bank needs to meet to 
be eligible for membership is not at all restrictive. After all, a savings institution member 
must maintain 70% of its assets in mortgage-related investments to have access to the 
System. 

The very fact that over three-quarters of all banks are eligible for membership is testimony 
to the ease of entrance. In addition, since the Bank System does play a supporting role in 
the housing finance delivery system, it seems only .logical that members display some 
constant and significant interest in housing. 

Secondly, the additional stock purchase requirement for a borrowing commercial bank is 

not prohibitively large. That is, however, the perception. 

That argument was, in fact, made by Federal Housing Finance Board Chairman Daniel 
Evans in his testimony before the House Banking Subcommittee on Housing and 
Community Development on May 29, 1991. 



^Google 



"FHLBank System Stock purchase requirement! art significantly higher for 
commercial banks than thrift* Thrift! must purchase a MfatamP level of 
FHLBank stock equal to 1% of their mortgage assets. Commercial banks, 
however, due to the makeup of their balance sheet, are often required to 
purchase a minimum level of stock equal to 03% of their total assets. 
Despite a potentially equal dollar commitment to bousing finance, this 
requirement can far exceed the 1% at mortgage assets required of thrifts. 

"For advance users, thrifts are required to purchase stock equal to 5% of 
their advances. In other words, they can leverage their investments by a nttto 
of 20:1. The minimum stock level for commercial bank borrowing it 5% 
divided by their mortgage investment percentage, which can reduce the 

leverage of commercial bank capital to as little as 2:1. 

Therefore, for a 1100 million advance, a thrift is required to purchase $5 
million of stock while a commercial bank may have to purchase as much u 
$50 million of stock. 

"...[TJhese restrictions ignore the actual impact of a given flnmdal institution 
on housing. A large commercial bank with 20% mortgage assets may well 
represent a greater dollar contribution to bousing than some QTL lenders." 

Technically, all that is correct, but note the use of terms like "can far exceed" and "can 
reduce" and "may have to" and "may well represent". Those qualifiers suggest that 
commercial banks are not always at a disadvantage in joining and borrowing from the 
FHLB System. 

In reality, it is more likely the case that the thrifts are really the ones at the disadvantage. 
That is because thrifts, unlike banks, are mandatory members. Thrifts do not benefit from 
the advantages of voluntary membership. 

Consider the example below. A bank and a thrift have an equal dollar commitment to 
mortgages of $300 million. Because the thrift must past the QTL test to be able to borrow 
from the FHLB System - more on that point later - the thrift's assets, »™iming that it has 
15% liquidity, must equal around $475 million. The bank's assets will be $1 billion, with 

25% in liquidity. 

To be a member, the bank will have to buy stock equal to the greater of 1% of home 
mortgage assets or 03% of total assets. In this case, that works out to $3,000,000. For the 
thrift, the requirement is 1% of its home mortgage investments, or $3,000,000. 



Hence, the bank and the thrift, with the same dollar commitment to housing, will have to 
purchase the same $3,000,000 in stock. However, while for the bank that represents only 



xibyGooyle 



0.3% of assets, for the thrift that represents 0.63% of assets. That, from this point or view, 
the thrift U at tbe dludvutatt, not Ibt hank. 

How does this requirement change if the institutions bonw from tbe FHLB System? The 
first point to note ii that in order to borrow, the thrift must remain in compliance with the 
QTL test If it fails tbe QTL test, even by a very small margin, it is completely denied 
access to advances. Hence, the thrift, regardless of Its borrowing amount, must bold stock 
equal to 0.63% of its assets Just to have the option to borrow advances. On the other hand, 
the bank on borrow as long as it maintains: 10% of its assets in home mortgage 
investments and holds stock equal to at least 0-3% of Its assets. It need not pais the OIL. 

As depicted in tbe example, as long as the bank's advances do not equal a very large 
percentage of its mortgage assets, it will have a itock purchase requirement in dollar terms 
and relative to advances that is leu than or, at worst, equal to that of tbe thrift. 

In this example as long as the advances do not exceed $20 million, or 6.7% of mortgage 
assets, the bank will actually have to purchase less stock than the thrift. That is because the 
thrift, as a mandatory member, must bold stock regardless of whether or not it borrows. 

It is important to keep in mind that not many current members borrow advances equal to 
large percentages of their mortgage assets. The median ratio of advances-to-mortgage 
assets for healthy savings institutions is 6.7%. (It it just a coincidence that the median 
equals the breakpoint ratio in this example). 

Furthermore, tangible evidence shows that many commercial banks that have joined the 
FHLB System do not view tbe 03% of assets stock purchase requirement as onerous. Of 
the 172 banks that had joined the System by early May 1991, 104, or 60%, had less than 
30% of their assets invested in home mortgage investments. 

Of the IS banks with assets of more than SI billion that joined the System, only four bad a 
borne mortgage-to-asset ratio in excess of 30%. Presumably, these large banks art rather 
sophisticated managers of their funds. It does not seem logical for them to make an 



Many more banks have joined the System since early May. We nave heard reports that the 
number is now over 250. Such growth again suggests that commercial bank membership 
requirements, are not too tough. 

We are not able to analyze tbe home mortgage investments of these banks because we 
cannot obtain an up-to-date list of commercial bank members of the FHLB System. It 
seems that some commercial banks have obtained from the FHFB an agreement that their 
membership in the FHLB System will be kept confidential for competitive purposes. 



!£ ibyG00gle 



This policy of confidentiality greatly concerns ui because it prevents studying bow the 
bousing investments of these commercial banks change once they become members of the 
System. Specifically, have they become more 01 less invoked in homing? 

The future dedication to bousing by commercial bank members of the FHLB System 
should be closely monitored. If the FHLB System considers itself a wholesale bank for 
bousing, it should ensure that its members remain active in that sector. 

In any event, now that commercial banks (and credit unions) can become voluntary 
members of the Bank System on fairly liberal terms, it seems only equitable that 
consideration be given to making membership voluntary for all insured depository 
institutions. It is blatantly toJair that one set of institutions should have voluntary accpsl 
and use of the System while being subsidized by the forced membership of another set of 



Compulsory shareholders in the Federal Home Loan Banks have no particular leverage 
over the management of the Banks. How can these shareholder* exercise discipline over 
the Banks' management if management knows that the shareholders are legally enjoined 
from selling their stock? 

Membership in the FHLB System for SATF-insured institutions should be voluntary, / 
provided that the transition to voluntary membership is accomplished in an orderly manner 
that maintains the viability of the FHLB System and is equitable for existing members. 
The transition should be as rapid as possible, preferably within three years. 

Until voluntary membership is completely achieved, a minimum number of seats on the 
boards of the district Banks should be reserved for mandatory SATF-insured members. In 
addition, the eligibility, stock purchase and collateral requirements for potential members 
that do not demonstrate a dedication to housing should not be eased. Furthermore, 
membership in the FHLB System should not be expanded beyond federally insured 
depository institutions. 



and should be a mandatory member until voluntary membership is fully phased in. 

The savings institutions business recognizes that a transition to voluntary membership 
cannot occur overnight. But the business fully believes that a vibrant System and voluntary 
membership are not mutually exclusive. 

This fact is demonstrated by the Boston and New York Banks. The majority of the 

members of these Banks are voluntary. Their members are predominantly state-chartered, 
BIF- insured institutions. These two Banks are vibrant 



^Google 



In short, there is no reason to expect, under ■ compUtaty voluntary membership system, 
that mass nock redemptions by mandatory member*. Their worries over the value of the 
stock could be mitigated by tome of the proposal! discussed earlier. In addition, unlet) 
institutions increase their internal levels of liquidity, they will want to maintain access to 
the System. 

The Federal Home Loan Bank System, with its role in bousing finance and u a provider of 
liquidity to members, remains a vital part of the structure of the savings institution 
business. In act, given tin current fragility of the financial system and the nervousness of 
depositors, its liquidity role for thrifts is probably more important than at any tune since 
the 1930a. 

The members of the Bank System also have a keen interest in maiinfining the value of the 
huge amounts of capital tbey have invested in the FHLBanks' stock. They simply cannot 
■fiord to take a hit to their capital positions if that investment is impaired, whether through 
further confiscation of the Banks' capital to pay for the cleanup of failed financial 
institutions or through losses charged to the Federal Home Loan Banks' capital account 
because of unwise investments by the Banks. (The taxpayers' interests are also at Hake 
here. The FHLBanki' high capital position directly protects the taxpayer against loam in 
the Banks but any impairment of that capital could be costly to the taxpayer because of the 
harmful effect on federally-insured member institutions.) 

All of this suggests that the future of the Federal Home Loan Banks is a vital interest of the 
savings institution business. As long as thrifts are required to be major investors in the 
FHLB System, they should, as member-owners, play a key role In determining its future. 



!£ ibyG00gle 



Tola] Assets 
Mortgage assets 
Mortgage assets to assets 



liquidity 

Actual thrift investment percentage 



Borrowings 

As a % of mortgage assets 

Stock required 

As a % of assets 

Leverage ratio 



$1,000,000,000 

1300,000,000 

30.0% 


$475,000,000 
$300,000,000 

632% 


$3,000,000 
030% 


$3,000,000 
0.63% 


$250,000,000 
333% 


$71,250,000 
702% 


$100,000,000 

333% 

$15,000,000 

13% 

6.7 


$100,000,000 

333% 

$5,000,000 

1.1% 

20.0 



Moderate borrowings: Bank purchases 

same stock as thrift; leverage 

ratios are the same 

Borrowings 

As a % of mortgage assets 

Stock required 

As a % of assets 

Leverage ratio 



$20,000,000 


$20,000,000 


6.7% 


6.7% 


$3,000,000 


$3,000,000 


030% 


0.63% 



Page 21 



^Google 



Testimony 
Submitted by 

George Butts 

President 

ACORN Housing Corporation 

Philadelphia, PA 



Community Reinvestment Lending and Reform of 
Secondary Mortgage Market Agencies 



Subcommittee on Housing and Community 

Development 

Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 

U.S. House of Representatives 

Gonzalez 



July 19, 1991 



xibyOooyle 



Kr. Chairman, Keiriers o£ the Subcommittee I am George 
Butts, President of the ACORN Housing Corporation of 
Philadelphia, PA. I am here today representing the 80, 000 
nationwide low and moderate-income members of acorn, the 
Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now. ACORN 
has neighborhood chapters in 26 states and has successfully 
negotiated over 25 Community Reinveetment Act bank agreements 
representing more than $500 million in targeted loan commitments 
for low-income homeownership. 

ACORN is pleased to present testimony today on the role of 
the secondary mortgage market in community reinvestment lending 
and to comment on pending legislation establishing affordable 
housing guidelines, capital standards and a regulatory structure 
for the secondary mortgage market agencies of Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac. For far too long far too little attention has been 
paid to the influence of the secondary mortgage market on the 
availability and the lack of availability of mortgage credit in 
low- and moderate- income neighborhoods. 

We commend the Chairman and this Subcommittee for their 
leadership in inaugurating today what we hope will be an 
extended exploration of secondary mortgage market activity in 
low-income neighborhoods. 

For well over a decade, ACORN --the country's largest 
graseroots organization of low- and moderate - income people- - hae 
been at the forefront of community-based efforts to ensure that 
low- and moderate -income neighborhoods obtain life sustaining 
credit from private federally chartered banks and savings and 
loan associations . 

I would like to begin by reminding this Committee that low 
■income homeownership is not some far off dream. It is a reality 
if the neceesary pieces are in put into place by community 
leaders, local lenders and, yes, the secondary mortgage market. 
It may sometimes be difficult Co achieve, particularly in many 
high-cost residential markets, but, when aspiring homeowners, 
dedicated community organizers and local lenders do the 
necessary work, the doors of homeownership need not be barred 
from low- and moderate-: 



ACORN has spearheaded a real bonk and community partnerehip 
in recent yeara in Philadelphia, St. Louis, Chicago, Des Moines 
and Minneapolis/St. Paul to name just a few cities. These 
partnerships combine aggressive lending by banks and creative 
marketing and pre-purchase counseling by community groups to 
produce targeted loan programs that are meeting under served 
credit needs in low-income conmunitiss. All of this has been 
done without any tax subsidy. Community groups like ACORN have 
figured out how to make lending safe and profitable in low 
-income comunities. The continued success of these partnerships 
is dependent on resolving unnecessary hurdles that the secondary 



xi*, Google 



mortgage market places on community r •investment lending. 

Mr. Chairman, on behalf of ACOBH, I wish to extend our 
Want thanks for your leadership in the recent fighC to 
preserve the CRA. I an troubled, however, to report to you that 
while CRA is alive in the statute, it is being strangled at the 
grassroots by the daily business practices oE Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac. Merely preserving the status quo with respect to 
CRA demands a real overhaul of tbese publically- chartered and 
-subsidized institutions. 



In order to ensure chat community lending is a viable 
option for local financial institutions in the 1990's and into 
the next century, ACORN recommends that legislation be passed to 
ensure that secondary mortgage market agencies: 

1) affirmatively support low-income homeowner ship and 
affordable multi-family rental housing by setting aside a 
certain annual amount of their taxpayer subsidized profits to 
support mortgage provision to low- income households . 

2) dsvote no less than 30% of their annual mortgage 
purchases to loans from families at or below 80% of Area Median 
Income of which half should be purchases of mortgages from 
families at or below 60% of Area Median Income. 

3} establish firm anti -discrimination policy, and require 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to terminate business with known 
discriminatory landers . And, 

i) publically disclose race, gender, income level and 
location of their purchased, securitized and held mortgages by 
requiring agency reporting under the Home Mortgage Disclosure 
Act (HHDA) . 

BfflilS BUMHFITS AHD OBLIGATIONS OF FANNIE MAE AND FHEDPI8 MAC 

American taxpayers have bestowed upon the secondary 
mortgage market agencies a long list of financial privileges 
that underwrite the ability of these agencies to compete in the 
financial marketplace and deliver a handsome return to their 
shareholders . In return for these benefits, the agencies have 
public charter obligations to support the provision of mortgage 
credit in the economy by facilitating private capital investment 
in home mortgages and mortgage related assets. This charter 
obligation specifically cites Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's 
ongoing reponsibility to facilitate investment in "mortgages 
securing housing for low end moderate- income families. " 

The two agencies have achieved a dominant position in the 
conventional secondary mortgage market In substantial part 
because of the special benefits of taxpayer assistance. la fact. 



at* Google 



c Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report CoBtraiiinn 
tha Riaka of QoviouMBt • Sponsored Enttmrim state* that 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's "significant market power arises 
from the implicit federal subsidies they receive," including: 
Treasury Department authority to purchaaa their debt; exemption 
from Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulation; 
federal Reserve ability to buy agency issued securities; 
collateral qualification for Federal Reserve advances; exemption 
from state and local corporate taxation; and the implied backing 
of the taxpayer standing behind agency debt and aach and every 
agency issued mortgage -backed security. 

These legal benefits give Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 
substantial financial advantages in the marketplace. The 
implicit federal guarantee of agency obligations leads financial 
investors in agency debt or mortgage-becked securities to 
believe that the taxpayer stand* behind the risk of agency 
activities. As a reeult of this taxpayer provided insulation 
from the market, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's securities trade 
at preferential rates and they are able to borrow from the 
capital markets at significant advantage over all other private 
and public borrowers with the exception of the U.S. Treasury. 

The CSO estimates that the taxpayer subisidy amounts to a 
borrowing advantage of 30 basis points on agency debt and 
securitiee. On the basis of the CBO figure, some estimate that 
this translates into an annual St billion taxpayer subsidy to 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

In a fiscal climate of scarce resources, ACORN wonders how 
is this public subsidy targeted? Are these taxpayer subsidies 
targeted to those most in need of federal assistance in the 
mortgage market? Are unjustified subsidies being wasted on 
households that do not need public assistance? Are the. 
taxpayers, particularly the low- and moderate- income taxpayers, 
getting their fair return for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's 
public dole? These are critical public policy questions that 
this Congress cannot avoid. 

FAHMIE MAE AMD FREDDIE MAC'S IMPACT OK THE MORTGAGE MARKET 

In our experience with dozens of local lenders over many 
years it has been clear and is increasingly clear that the 
secondary mortgage market has been a hidden officer at the loan 
origination table. Although physically absent, th* hand of the 
secondary market has been felt as we have tried to negotiate 
loan products with lender after lender that was willing and able 
to accomodate the economic realities of low- income households 
and low- income neighborhoods. 

Tragically, the impact of the secondary market in low 
-income communities has often bean the rejection stamp of a 
local loan officer who is simply following bank credit policy 
that was developed not by a local bank to meet the 



xibyOooyle 



characteristics of a particular credit: worthy borrower but to 
meet -the dictates of a far away and absent secondary market 
corporation. Many tinea over the laat decade, ACORN members 
have seen their hard work with local bankers wither away as 
willing lenders tell us: "Sorry, we would like to offer the 
loans you need but we cannot sell then. " 

It is a rare lender that is not concerned about whether or 
not the mortgage loans they make can or cannot be sold to the 
secondary market. In the course of the last decade, local 
landers have become increasingly reliant on the secondary market 
to buy locally originated loans. He are no longer in the "It's A 
wonderful Life" day of portfolio lending. The securitization of 
mortgage assets is standard business today and, due to various 
market and regulatory forces, including new risk-based capital 
standards, will only increase in the future. 

Fannie Mae and. Freddie Mac's influence on the mortgage 
market is therefore profound. According to the CBO, in the eight 
year period from 1981 to 1989, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's 
share of newly originated Fixed Rata Mortgages skyrocketed from 
A percent to near dominance at 69 percent. 

The standards that the secondary mortgage market employ are 
therefore, the driving force in mortgage products offered at 
financial institutions. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have a truly 
determinative effect on today's mortgage market. Or, as the GAO 
noted in laat year's Secondary Mortgage Market: Information on 
yndvewricing .gnd.flome.ijgaiia.in .the Atlanta. Ar^a- "underwriting 
standards indirectly establish the qualifications that loans to 
individual borrowers must meet to be eligible for delivery to 
the secondary mortgage market." Me know this well from our work 
with local lenders and this is clearly evident in the dramatic. 
market share of the secondary market agencies in today's 
mortgage marketplace. The influence of the secondary market 
agencies is so profound that local bankers, mortgage companies 
and even state housing finance agencies fear corporate 
retribution if they bring to the negotiating table their own or 
community complaints of agency inflexibility. 

Unfortunately, the standardization of mortgage products 
that the secondary market has brought upon home finance has 
placed new hurdles and obstacles to low-income families who seek 
mortgage credit from local lenders. While standardization of 
mortgage products may make business easier for multi-billion 
dollar corporations like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, it clearly 
imposes real barriers to mortgage credit for applicants who do 
not fit the latest cookie-cutter fashion cooked up by secondary 
market underwriters. 

in fact, the recently released report to the President on 
regulatory barriers to affordable housing, Hoe ID My Baeli Yard 
underscores the negative impact that secondary mortgage market 
standards have on community landing: 



!£( by Google 



Tannic Mae's and Freddie Mac's underwriting standards are 
oriented towards "plain vanilla" mortgage*. The standards 
encourage landing in suburban, growing, homoganoua, and higher 
income areas, whsrs housing and zoning requirements rasult in 
tha production of "cookie cuttar" niw homes in uniformly single 
-family no ighbor hoods . Thasa standards work against mors diverse 
building types and mixed-use naighborhooda, which are mora 
difficult to assess and to underwrite." 

As this Committee is well aware, the authors of this report 
are hardly from tha ranks of our nation's community activists. 
Many of the members of the Advisory Commission on Regulatory 
Barriers to Affordable Housing are from the conservative wing of 
the public and private sectors . 

It is ACORN's observation that the underwriting criteria 
employed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been developed not 
for th« general mortgage market, which includes low- and 
moderate- income homeowners, but for a middle-income and 
substantially suburban mortgage market. As a result, it is our 
firm belief that the underwriting standards dictated by the 
secondary mortgage market are, at a minimum, income 
discriminatory and may, by extension, be racially 
discriminatory. The Advisory Commission's report comes to the 
same conclusion: "Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have had anti 
-discrimination and anti -redlining guidelines, but have not 
consistently followed them, " 

Clearly, then, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are not benign 
players in the origination of home mortgage loans. In fact, 
while Fannis Mae and Freddie Mac may be putting middle- and 
upper-middle income families into suburban homes and returning 
handsome dividends to their stockholders, they may equally be a 
real contributor to housing af fordability and availability 
crunches for millions of low- and moderate-income Americana. 

In order to show evidence of this condition I would like to 
briefly detail for the Committee how CRA type-lending has 
developed and outline the features of landing arrangements that 
ACORN has developed with local lenders to meet the credit needs 
of low- income communities. 

THZ SUCC EBB OF CRA LKMDIHG 

With the passage of the Community Reinvestment Act in 1977, 
low- Income people and community organizations acquired an 
important tool to work with local lenders in the provision of 
credit to low- income communities. For thousands of ACORN 
members and their millions of low'income neighbors, the CRA is 
an invaluable resource for helping financial institutions 
provide basic financial servioes to our nation's low-income 
communities. 



xibyGooyle 



Despit.n the CRA's troubled regulatory status, of which this 
ComnitC»« is well aware, community gcuupi like ACORN have uaed 
the CRA to negotiate many sound lending agreements with banks to 
niHet low income community credit needs. 

The dozens of lending programs that ACORN has developed and 
implemented through the CRA with local landers have four basic 



3) The mortgage product is often at a below-markat rata. 

4) A land tn 

mortgage to a 
households . 

Although not all of these features are necessary to ensure 
an affordable mortgage product for every low-income family, each 
is a critical part of the CRA- type lending that acorn has 
developed with local banks and savings and loans. In many real 
•state markets, affordable loans can only be delivered to low 
- and moderate - income borrowers with all of these features in 

The performance of the lending programs ACORN has developed 
through the CRA havs posed no greater risk to lenders than their 
standard home mortgage lending operations. In many cases, ACORN 
lending programs have performed better in terms of default rate 
than non-CRA loan activity with the banks we have worked with. 

Despite the willingness of local lenders to make these 
types of loans and the seasonsd status of many of thase CRA loan 
portfolios, we have increasingly been told by our bankers that 
the characteristics of these loans are not acceptable the 
secondary market. In fact, many of lenders we work with who now 
hold multi-million dollar CRA portfolios have told us that thev 
may soon be unable to orlgA ftatB mora of these loans if they 
remain unable to sell them to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac , 

UNDERWRITING CRITERIA AMD CRA LOANS 

I would like to outline in greater detail the underwriting 
that ACORN has developed with CRA lenders and identify where 
these underwriting guidelines have run up against underwriting 
employed by the secondary market. Many of the rules 
discriminate against low-income borrowers. These criteria bear 
little relation to the facta about who pays their bills and who 
pays then on time, CRA lending is generally not high risk 



xibyOooyle 



landing for the bank. 



Credit worthy low- income applicants do not, by definition, 
have tha degree of savings available to more affluent mortgage 
borrower*. However, this need not bar them from homeownerahlp 
opportunities. 

Our CRA landing programs generally employ no more than 5* 
downpayment requirements for a borrower, with many programs set 
at 3*. 

Tragically, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have slashed their 
purchase of low downpayment loans over the last half -decade. 
Since 1985, as the attached table shows (Appendix A), both 
agencies have virtually cut in half their investment in fixed 
-rate, low downpayment loans. Such loans aervice America's 
marginal and most needy would-be homeowners. 

The additional table (Appendix B) , drawn from the national 
data base of the private mortgage insurers, demonstrates that 
lower balance loana, which as a rule are originated to low 
-income borrowers, are generally less risky than higher balance 
loans. This PHI data shows that the risk of default increases 
with loan balance size and suggests that low-income borrowers 
actually pose a reduced risk to lenders, private mortgage 
insurance companies and the secondary mortgage market agencies. 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may have abandoned not only America's 
marginal homeowner, but also a secure and low risk market. 

While it is true that 5% downpayment requirements are 
occaasionally acceptable to tha secondary market, there are 
serious underwriting obstaclss in the required downpayment 
source. Both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac do not permit cash-on 
-hand to be a source for downpayments. "Mattress money," as cash 
-on-hand is more commonly know, is a commonplace in low-income 
communities which lack general access to banking services 
commonly available in higher income neighborhoods. Fully one out 
of every five loans in our combined Philadelphia lending 
program, involves a cash-on-hand downpayment. The banks with 
which ws have working relationships recognise that not every 
credit worthy applicant need poasess a bank account to get a 



Sweat-equity contributions 

In our programs, sweat-equity contributions by a loan 
applicant that increase the value of a property can be 
considered a cash investment for purposes of calculating loan-to 
-value ratio*. It is our understanding that Fannie Hae and 
Freddie Mac are avers* to counting sweat-equity as a source of 
cash investment, despite the fact that sweat-equity ia commonly 



xibyOooyle 



employed in the delivery of affordable housing. 

Debt -to- income ration 

Almost without exception, our CRA programs incorporate debt 
-to- income ratios that are generally unacceptable or reluctantly 
acceptable to the secondary market. In our programs the ratio of 
housing payment and total debt to gross monthly income is 
generally 33% and 36*, respectively, in face, our banks permit 
higher DTI ratios if the applicant is currently making bousing 
payments with higher ratios, provided there is a good credit 
history. 

Income Source 

Some sources of income for low- income people are ignored by 
Fannie and Freddie. Food stamps, child support --even whan it 
is not court ordered-- and unemployment insurance are valid 
income sources which Fannie and Freddie should accept. 
Documentedbut unreported income is also accepted by many of our 

These later sources of income hava been reported to ue by 
our lenders to be unacceptable to the secondary market. 

Income Continuity 

Standard mortgage underwriting assesses the likelihood of a 
stable source of income on the basis of job continuity. 
Reliance on job continuity alone is not, however, an adequate 
measure of income stability in low- income communities. The low 

■income economy is much more fluid than that of higher income 
sectors of our general economy. Job tenure is often much shorter 
due to the seasonal nature of many occupations held by low 

-income people and the general lack of opportunities for career 
advancement . 

The standard industry rule has been two years at the same 
job for a mortgage applicant. However, a loan we recently 
originated with a St. Louis lander was recently rejected by 
Fannie Mae on the grounds that the borrower had a "career 
change." The borrower had moved from an auto assembly line 
occupation to that of electronic assembly. Her new electronics 
job actually paid more than her old auto assembly job. 

In our programs,' loan applicants must demonstrate an 
ability to maintain a base level of income over two years, 
regardless of the variety of employers or sources of income. 
The important criteria is not job continuity, but income 
continuity. 



Cradit Hiatory 



»*, Google 



Middle - income markers of credit history art often 
unavailable in low-'ineome communities. Consumer credit records 
are often unavailable because low- income people- are denied 
access to such credit. 

Our agreements with local lenders permit applicants with 
credit history marked by late payments and/or judgements to not 
be disqualified if they can demonstrate) a pattern of good faith 
efforts to catch up and if they can clearly demonstrate that 
delinquencies are due to circumstance* beyond their control, 
such as illness, divorce or layoffs. Furthermore, a qualified 
borrower with a satisfactory payment record within the previous 
twelve months prior to the submission of a loan application will 
not be disqualified due to an earlier blemish in their credit 

He ax« currently trying to work out the details of a 
homeowner ship loan program with the Resolution Trust 
Corporation. These negotiations are at a standstill today 
bscause the secondary market player involved, Freddie Mac, is 
unwilling to accept credit history guidelines like those above. 

OTHER IMPACTS OF THE SECONDARY MARK] 

The following four additioi 
have presented obstacles for out 
to the secondary market . 

1) Neighborhood Factors 

Much of our loan activity is in inner-city neighborhoods 
where housing abandonment is widespread. Lenders have cited 
Fannie and Freddie standards as reasons for loan denials when 
applicants have sought mortgages on blocks with vacancies 
greater then 10 or IS percent. In cities like Philadelphia, 
where there are 21,000 vacant houses, these vacancy rates are 
common and yet there is still an active real estate market. The 
number of vacant houses should never be a reason for turning 
down a loan, individual appraisals of secured property protect 
banks and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from default claims that 
may exceed the actual worth of an individual property. 

Yet, Fannie Mae's underwriting guidelines provide for a 
"neighborhood rating system" for appralsors to assess not 
property to property values but neighborhood to neighborhood 
characteristics and features. The use of these "locational 
factors" unduly burden* mortgage applicants who choose to buy 
secured property in neighborhood* that nay not be picture 
perfect. In tact, Fannie Mae's guidelines discourage lender* 
from providing "maximum financing" to borrowers who seek loan* 
for appraised properties in neighborhoods that have low growth 
rates, high vacancy rate* or older structure*. 

2) Purchase -Rehabilitation Financing 



xibyOooyle 



Most of the housing Stock in low-income communities is net 
new. There ar» many houses in imi*r-city neighborhoods that 
require rehabilitation. The inability of lenders to find, 
secondary market buyers tor purchs.se/ rehabilitation financing 
--financing that provides funds for both the aquisition of a 
home and necessary repairs-- is often the source of many loan 
rejections for otherwise creditworthy projects. 

3) Land Trusts 

ACORN routinely employs a land trust form of homeowner ship 
to ensure that housing is affordable to as low an income group 
as is possible. This model of ownership places the land beneath 
a house in a common trust while the actual home is owned by the 
lower income family. The financing of these properties has 
involved the subordination Of the trust deed to the banks first 
mortgage to the homeowner. 



4) Below -market loans 

As stated above, most of our loan programs involve below 
market loan pricing. The banks we work with realize that this is 
absolutely necessary in order to do business in low-income 
communities. Profit yes. But, high margins are not likely. 

To our knowledge both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are 
absolutely unwilling to consider buying any loan that is not at 
market rate. 

HBCOMMEHDATIOHS AMD COMMEHTS OH H.R. 2900 

ACORN does not believe that Fannie Mas and Freddie Mac are 
doing enough to help private lenders meet the demand for credit 
in low-income communities. It would be tragic if these 
Government Sponsored Enterprises continue to turn their backs on 
low- Income neighborhoods and individuals that private banks are, 
with far fewer resources than Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, able to 
help. 

Clearly, Me. Chairman many policy concerns result from the 
standardization of mortgage products that Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac have imposed on mortgage markets. He are glad to see that 
H.R. 2900 takes some steps to address these longstanding 

■We support the development of an affordable housing ' 
program at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and would support the 
proposal in H.R, 2900 with revision. 



ibyGoogle 



acorh believes tb*t * public obligation to support 
affordable housing development does not stem from the thickness 
of the wallets of agency stockholders , The welfare oC agency 
stockholders should not be the criteria Cor the depth of a 
public obligation. There should be a known floor to any aupport 
for affordable housing. 

In contraat to the K.R. 2900 proposal to peg eontributiona 
to affordable housing to annual dividend payments, ACORN 
proposes that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac be required to set 
aside a portion of their annual, profits to expands homeowner ship 
opportunities for low income households. Under your leadership 
Mr. Chairman, the Congress established this form of assurance of 
community service in firrea with respect to the Federal Home 
Loan Banks, another GSB. If this is good public policy for other 
GSE'e, like the Federal Home Loon Bonks, it is prudent public 
policy for secondary market GSBs. Dividends are often 
capricious, and Fannie and Freddie's dividend payouts will be 
uncertain over the next several years, as this Committee is 
well aware, viable affordable housing programs require the 
certainty of funding. 

Additionally, we suggest that an Affordable Housing Program 
be established at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac for both single 
-family and multi- family affordable housing development. And, 
any effective affordable bousing program at Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac must provide resources for agency purchase of below 
•market loans at par and agency assistance to lender origination 
of below-market loans to single- family and multi-family 
borrowers. This will ensure the continued vibrancy and 
effectiveness of CRA lending throughout the country. 

we would propose that funding levels for Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac be equivalent to those established in the FIRREA 
legislation for the Federal Home Loan Banks. As the GAO notes in 
its recent report Government Sponsored Enterprises: A Framework 
for Limiting the Government's Exposure to Risks, these funding 
levels do not pose a financial burden on the Home Loan Banks and 
"ensure that these programmatic activities do not threaten the 
financial soundness of the firms." 

If these proposed funding levels were in place last year at 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac the rate of return to shareholders 
would have only been marginally reduced. Laat year, Fannie Has 
realized a Si. 2 billion profit, equivalent to a 34* return on 
equity. Freddie Mac realised a profit of B414 million in 1990, 
equivalent to a 20* return on equity. Had our proposal been in 
place, the return on equity for Fannie Hae would have been 32%, 
and the return on equity for Freddie Mac would have been 18* 
••both well above average returns in the private sector. 

• Require that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchase low 
-income mortgages to ensure reform of discriminatory 
underwriting standards. Ho less than 30* of annual agency 



xibyOooyle 



mortgage purchases should bo from borrowers at less than 80* of 
Area Median income of which no leaa than half are from borrowers 
whose income does not exceed GO* of Axes Median Income. 

Existing HUD regulations --and years of discussion between 
banks, cotmiunity organizations and the agencies-- have failed to 
achieve the goal established in agency charters for secondary 
mortgage market support of low-income homeowner ah ip and 
affordable rental housing. 

• Establish anti -discriminatory policy for Fannie Has and 
Freddie Mac, These agencies should be barred from purchasing 
loans from any known lender that discriminates on the basia of 

in a recent study crannies ioned by Freddie Mac, researchers 
found thct "mortgage originations and loan acceptance rates 
uncovered systemstio differences between minority and nan 
-minority neighborhoods." While both agencies have elaborate 
guidelines for disciplining lenders that operate in a 
financially unsound manner, they apparently have no policy 
whatsoever for dealing with lenders thst heve demonstrated a 
pattern and practice of discrimination and redlining. 
Compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit 
Opportunity Act, and the Fair Housing Act should be the minimal 
standard for access to the government-supported secondary 

■ Place Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac under the reporting 
requirements of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HHDA) . As 
taxpayer supported entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have no 
less of an obligation to report on their loon portfolios than 
federally chartered depositories. 



Over the last few years a new generation of community 
lending financial inatitutiona have risen to meet the dire needs 
for mortgage credit in low-income communities. These banks aca 
doing good work. They are carrying out responsibilities that 
coma with their charters to meet the credit needs of their 
entire community, not juat the community of borrowers that is 
easiest to serve. These lenders are doing the hard work that is 
required to create homeowner a hip opportunities for low-income 
families. Without the assistance of the federal government, 
these lenders are helping to rebuild low-income neighborhoods. 

It ia ironic that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Government 
Sponsored Enterprises who receive substantial benefit from their 
implicit taxpayer backing through the U.S. Treasury, are not be 
partners in this desperately needed lending activity. A casual 
reader of the business papers will readily not* that the 



xibyOooyle 



Thank you Mr. Chairman, that concludes my taatimony. 



agnized byGOOgle 



Eatarprlau," April. 1991; 



« OOVtBMKKNT-SPOMORKD INTC«PW*S* 



FANNIE MAE AND FREDDIE MACi CONVENTIONAL 
SINGLE-FAMILY MORTGAGE PURCHASES AND 
MBS ISSUES, 1986-1990, BY LOAN-TO-VALUE 
(LTV) RATIO Onpnant) 



lSSS IMS 1MT 19M 1M9 1»D 1MWO 



Hortg aft-BacM Stturitiu htutd 
Fliad-RiU KsRiica 



A4jnM*>k-Rit* Mortfim 

Nw.viil.W. 
Ota 10 



Freddie Mae (All 



^Google 



CurpurMton of tanki 
(MICA) data far Ffcnd- 
lata, aOa-Invutoc Loau 

from 1979-1967. 




i.. 





a 


n« 






-i a> 




s 


< H 




I 






i 


*< £U 



a. O 



<r> 


o 




u> 


V 


3 


U) 


> 




z) 




O 


0) 


c 



,db»GoogIc 




.///// 



Loan Activity by 
Population Group 



When auntderlng tt> 
OMvarUbl* — the radii co 

•howtlutiuclitctivity wugrett*rinpredoirin»tely\»hite(ai-100i>er- 
. rant while) dp i»d« w™. Tin ivEf^ge iivl itkiUmi Iomt »mauna ind 
ne price* alK lnoeucd u the pertenttge of white poeulttkn 



(5eefl(.IIU.)11wmj 
n S.Z In Che rndominitehj minority (0-20 percent white) sr 
to S3 In CM ntattvtrj Wefrtted (4140 pen** whUa/ 

■ per 100 hOWMnm ndUm 8M0O percent 



ibyGOOgle 



GOVERNMENT-SPONSORED ENTERPRISES 

Testimony of 
Terrene* R. Duvernay, Executive Director, 
Georgia Housing and Finance Authority 

on Behalf of the 
National Council of State Housing Agencies 

Before the 
House Committee on B*nM«g, Finance and Urban Affairs 
Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development 



July 10. 1901 



^Google 



K. Dnvernav. Executive Director, 
Georgia Housing and Finance Authority 



House Oo BBWtttBB on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs 



Chairman Gonzalez, Representative Roukema and members of 
the Subcommittee, my name 1b Terrence Duvemay. I am Executive 
Director of the Georgia Housing and Finance Authority (GHFA). 1 also 
serve as President of the National Council of State Housing Agencies 
(NCSHA), on whose behalf I am testifying this morning. 

Within NCSHA, I chair a Task Force of State Housing Finance 
Agency (HFA) representatives which NCSHA has organized to meet 
regularly with the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) and 
the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) to discuss 
making their programs more relevant to low income people. 

We appreciate this opportunity to testify on your legislation (H.R. 
2900) to Improve the financial safety and soundness of FNMA and 
FHLMC. particularly with regard to its proposed Affordable Housing 
Program (AHP). We commend you for recognizing that these 
important institutions can and should do more to provide affordable 
housing for low Income Americans. 

NCSHA is a national, not-for-profit organization created In 1970 
to represent the interests of HFAs in low and moderate income 
housing. HFAs in every state, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, 
and the Virgin Islands respond to low and moderate Income housing 
needs through the financing, development, and preservation of 
affordable ownership and rental housing. HFAs collectively operate 
over 600 affordable housing programs, which range from 
homeownershlp to homeless initiatives. 

HFAs have helped more than 1.3 million lower Income families 
buy their first home through Mortgage Revenue Bond (MRB) programs 
which they administer In almost every state. They have also financed 
over 900,000 units of rental housing for low and moderate income 
tenants through reduced Interest rate mortgages financed by tax- 
exempt bonds. In addition, since 1986, HFAs have helped finance 
316.128 low Income rental units with the Low Income Housing Tax 
Credit (Tax Credit] for households with Incomes at 60 percent or less 
of area median. I want to take this opportunity to thank you. Mr. 
Chairman and TTf iwf sifiil allw> Roukema, and the many members of this 



n» Google 



Subcommittee who bare cosponsored legislation In this Congress. to 
make the MRB and lax Credit programs permanent. 

Congress has entrusted PNHA and FHLMC with the 
responsibility to assure the availability of mortgage capital to low and 
moderate Income families. Measures to ensure FNMA's and FHLMC's 
safety and soundness need not be Inconsistent with that 
CongresslonaUy-mandated public purpose. We believe the proposed 
AHP. coupled with FNMA's and FHLMC's existing or contemplated 
affordable housing efforts, would go a long way toward meeting their 
affordable housing mandate, even as they strengthen their capital 
position. 

We applaud FNMA for all that they have done In affordable 
housing. Their efforts have gone beyond the mtoununi required of 
them by regulation. We also commend FHLMC for hiring Carl Rledy. 
the former executive director of NCSHA and someone of great talent 
and vision In affordable bousing finance, to build an affordable housing 
program within FHLMC which is responsive to its identical mandate. 
We urge the Subcommittee to explicitly require FNMA to continue and 
expand its current level of effort in affordable housing, and FHLMC to 
expand its effort as fast as practicable to a level comparable to FNMA's 
but proportionate to FHLMC's size. 

The new AHP must be an addition to. and not a substitute for. 
these important efforts. FNMA's and FHLMC's affordable housing 
Initiatives have not been targeted so far to the Income levels required 
under the AHP for mulUfamfly projects, or to the real but still unmet 
needs In. the single family area. FNMA's and FHLMC's programs 
operate under standards of underwriting designed for conventional, 
untargeted housing. Unfortunately, many worthy affordable housing 
projects find it impossible to meet these standards for reasons which 
do not necessarily include risk. An affordable housing program like 
the legislation recommends could address the needs of such low 
income housing projects which do not meet conventional 
underwriting standards. 

Much of the testimony that has been given has addressed the 
need to upgrade FNMA and FHLMC capital standards. While the 
perception may be that additional capital is necessary to protect 
against existing risk, our experience with FNMA's and FHLMC's 
present programs suggests that they structure then- programs so that 
they take little or no risk, even In their affordable housing ventures. 

HFAs clearly understand what it means to maintain fiscal 
— and soundness. HFAs effec tiv ely act as state level secondary 
Our ability to Issue bonds to finance our housing p rogr a ms Is 
dependent on obtaining high financial ratings from raring agencies 
such as Standard and Poor's and Moody's. Since we are required by 



xibyGooyle 



sustaining, HrAi must be constantly aware of the bottom line. But we 
also know that financing truly low Income housing may involve taking 
some rlak. For example, our experience telle ua that many low Income 
needs cannot be met without sophisticated program structuring and 
the establishment of program reserves. HFAa have successfully 
financed such housing and believe FNMA and FHLMC can and should 
do m ii well, but not within the more conventional underwriting 
standards applicable to their current affordable housing Initiatives. 

The proposed AHP establishes the necessary framework for the 
development of an alternative product line to meet the unique 
circumstances of low income housing. We strongly support the 
concept with the following specific suggestions. 

1) The AHP should be designed to require FNMA and FHLMC to 
undertake low income housing activities beyond those permitted 
by their present underwriting standards. It should not be a 
grant program for a relatively few projects scattered across the 
country. Instead, program funds should be retained within the 
Corporations to leverage financing for targeted, low and very low 
income housing programs not presently undertaken by these 
Corporations. 

2) The AHP should include a low income single family component 
for otherwise nonconforming low income loans which gives 
preference to areas, such as rural areas, where rental housing Is 
frequently not viable . 

3) FNMA and FHLMC should be required to devote a meaningful 
amount of funds to the AHP baaed upon some measure of their 
profitability. We are not certain that a percentage of dividends, 
as the legislation proposes, is the beat way to measure the level 
of effort required in the new program. Other measures might 
include net earnings, some combination of net earnings and 
dividends, or even some significant portion of their overall 
secondary market activity which was clearly required to be 
committed to the kind of projects we are describing In this 
testimony. Whatever measure the Subcommittee determines la 
appropriate should result In a minimum of $1 billion In 
leveraged financing for low Income housing under the new 



4) The Subcommittee should take care to ensure that the AHP 
addr es ses unmet housing needs and la not permitted to be a 
substitute far FNMA'a present level of effort In affordable housing 
or what we hope wfll be FHLMCs expanded effort 



ibyGoogle 



n 



TheEnterprise Foundation 



u.s.M«i« r: 



opportunity to mm before you on behalf of The linierprije Foundation ind share 
oui thoughts concerning regulatory proposals for the Federal National Mortgage 
Corporation ('Fannie Hie') and [he Federal Home Loan Mortgage Auodanoa 
("Freddie Mac*). I am Bart Harvey, vice-chairman of The Enterprise Foundation. 



provide decent, affordable homing to poverty level individual! and families across the 

The Foundation assists grassroots nonprofit groups with their programs to 
rebuild housing and community in some of the most distressed neighborhoods in the 

CM meani of rehabilitating building) through in Rehab Wort Group, special 



Digged byGOOgle 



Ic have worked eateruively with Fannie Mae md Freddie Mac, primarily 



outran in 1938 and 1970, Fannie Mac and 
... . !d an inffignl role in federal houaini policy by 



provide stability in the secondary market for home mortgages 

respond appropriately to the private capital market 

provide ongoing assistance to the secondary maricnt for home 
mortgages (including low- and modente-incoine family mortgages 
in volvinf a reasonable economic icrnrn) by increasing the liquidity 



To help fulfill their federal charier and its attendant public purpose. Fa 
Mae and Freddie Mae have access to a number of benefits from the federal 
government conferring 'agency status" and an "implied guarantee" of the fede 



le fact and HUD'l. Treat 
analyses, there companies have succeeded magnificently in expanding the base of 
» in attracting capital from in 




3ij,sz,db»Google 



national homing policy. 

Moreover, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have well-served their 
Congressional intent to assist the secondary mortgage markets for km- and 
moderate-income families involving a reasonable return. Citing Fannie Mae's 
statistics, in 1990, the average loan purchased or securitized was 189,700 with 
more than 30 percent of such loans under 157,000. Freddie Mac had similar 
statistics. In their conventional single-family mortgage activities, both entities are 
reaching low-income populations, although more information is needed regarding 



te moltifamily arena. Fannie Mae purchased or securitizBd over S3 
y ten percent of all such 1990 multifamily volume nationwide, and three 
than the next largest player. With n win family production in i serious 
n a peak level of 669,000 units in 1983 to only 298,000 in 1990, Fannie 




ft and Freddie Mac's servicing of low- and 
ic individual) through the conventional market, ire the specialise! 
ds of low-income families which da not 
qualify for con ven tio! 



to overcome) down payment, credit history and neighborhood difficulties to provide 
a number of single family community lending activities. Additionally. Freddie 
Mac is pioneering a special $100 million multi family program with the Local 
Initiative Managed Asset Corporation for low-income rental projects. Parana Mae 
is also in the process of working with The Enterprise Foundation to < 



3ijBz,db»Google 



reluctant corporate partners into (he field. In (he work done wjlh The Unterpriie 
FounAuim, investment hu been in projects in the hern of distressed communities 
with local nonprofit general partners Commitments front both entities to 
Enterprise alone ire for projects with i development con exceeding S700 million. 



while soundly underwritten, reach It 
read leplicability in meeting unique 



Meeting low income housing needs through bath convention*! and jpecuU 
programs is pin of the public purpose of these entities achieved in tindeni with 
their strength u private ihueholdcr-owncd corponUionl. These result] ire 
possible only if Fannie and Freddie have the financial and regulatory leeway to 
respond responsibly and creatively 10 reach low- and moderate-income family 
housing needs. It is a delicate balance that ultimately must be predicated upon a 
sound and safe institution which will not be ■ potential liability to the federal 
government, but which can also pass through ill beneficial relationship in its public 



Before commenting on proposal! regarding how Fannie Mac and Freddie 
Mac might rapand their efforts to serve low- and moderate-income people, 1 would 
like to offer a view on certain proposal! which might detrimentally affect the 
regulation of these entities. Three proposals are troubling lor different reasons: 
bifurcated regulatory authority; arbitrary capital requirements; and prior approvals. 
These proposals, in our opinion, might dramatically change the way these 
government sponsored agencies deal with providing decent housing for low- and 
moderate income families. In making any changes, the utmost consideration must 
be accorded 10 the delicate balance and tension between safety and soundness and 
the public purpose of Fannie Mac and Freddie Mac. 

Pint, the so-called dual regulatory provision would establish a new Office 
of Secondary Market Elimination and Oversight solely to have authority over 
safety and soundness issues while general regulatory oversight would continue with 
HUD. 



Diniuzad byGOOgle 




expected to be rationally averse to even perceived notions of credit risk. 



The Enterprise Founduion has seen loo often with the Office of the 
Controller of the Currency, u an example, that risk-based premtunu from the 
safety and soundness aide discourages bank! and thrift! from miring needed 
nrnltifamily loan! while OCC, under the Community Reinvestment Act, is 
positively pushing these inititiitior.i to make thoM very sure lout. The purpose 
of the new Office of Secondary Mukct Fjamination and Oversight ihoukt 
incorporate in hi purposes the balance between adequate capita], the benefit] 
to be conferred by an Implied federal guarantee (became Fannie and Freddie do 
not have to have a triple A rating), and the benefit! pasted on to the cc 
low- and m ■■■■-■ 




» 201(1X3)) h> 
thii official the ability to err on the eg 
esse! nf the implied federal guarantee to the entity and ultimately le 
public purpose benefit by forcing riikleu underwriting. It i) our ui 



Finally, Enterprise would urge thai Fannie Mac and Freddie Mac not be 
subject to the prior approval by HUD of each new program designed to meet its 
public purpose test [Section 303(b)). It ii our belief that these private eorporaoor u 
can better and more expeditiously experiment with new niche programs for 
affordable housing without needing HUD approval to proceed and test their 
efficacy. By trying t series of pilot programi, Finnic and Freddie will be able hi 



3ijBz,db»Google 



craft for systernwtde use new, adaptive products. We believe that speed, 
innovation, wd adaptivenesi in the affordable housing product is ben aciiii 
allowing Fannie and Freddie the leeway to respond to set criteria for its pu 



Turning to the important is 
proposed in this bill, Enterprise en 
Fannie and Freddie meet the important needs of undenerved people- particularly in 
the renal market. AHP is in attempt to point out the need in the mulsifaroily 
housing market which typically serves the poorest populations of this counDy. 
However, rather than a program mat is circumscribed in its scope, and would 
favor a limited few, Enterpriie would far prefer to see that Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac expand their programs for low-income families, where possible on a 
financially sound basis, lyitemwide. We worry that AHP would be both a 
segregated minimum and maximum and would keep Fannie and Freddie from their 
important purpose of finding marketplace solutions to serving creditworthy low- 



Wc would recommend as a first step that Fannie and Freddie provide on an 
annual basis more and belter disclosure of volumes of single-Family and 
multifamily loans made by income level, and by census tract (particularly in inner 
city areas). We would also suggest that Fannie and Freddie spell out special 
initiatives involving specific product lines, such as high loan-to-value loans, low 
down payment loans, nonprofit originated loans, employer assisted loans, or 
programs linked to new federal housing programs such as those contemplated 
under HOME, HOPE II, and HOPE 111, in concert with the Federal Housing 
Administration (FHA), the RTC, or otherwise coupled to federal policy. Fannie 
and Freddie in cooperation with HUD should spell out annual volumes it might 
expect in each category or the effort being made to address the perceived credit 
needs which are not successfully being met. 

Each year, Fannie Mac and Freddie Mac in review with HUD should 

results. This should include volumes of loans made in different categories and 
attempts to answer difficult financial structuring questions, should targeted volumes 

V each annual review, these entities should also be willing to 



regarding perceived discriminatory underwriting practices. 



,db»GoogIc 



Flnnie ind Freddie might alio aet aside internally a special risk hind (for 
which they would get capita] credit) to underwrite their new innovative program!, 
and to ten Iboae which coukl be inatituted on a lyitemwide baiis. 

11 ia Enlerpriic'a contention that carefully underwritten low-income houain| 
ia a viable, profitable buiineu, and it ia our hope that Conpeai will adopt 
propoeala to nistain a regulatory climate dan will enable Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac to do the creative work Decenary to pioneer programs and producta that can 



3ijBz,db»Google 



k Honorable Hot B. Oaala 



Havina md die propoaed bin (RR. SOU) reurdinf Fannie Mm ud Freddie Mki aafety 
and aoundme, 1 have concluded But m Iho bill to be peiaed m iu preeeat form, I would be 
forced to nammend to Smith Barneyi Slock Stoning Canaktec Ant Axe itccaaneedttient 
be eubetaatlaly downanded. I balm dm In to prtMM km Ac H.R. WW wakf nuke the 
future raiiLia. of equity capital by eilhei ealei^ue difbmlt iuxI that nxh ui trail -ould h™ 
negative cocuequencee for Fannie Mm ud Freddie Maei on-ererjj debt ud mousiie keeked 



i Funis Mae u Chief Econtnaa n 1976 SI 
on the economic and axial roiea of Fannie Mai 
u here will be tailed to the effect! of RR. 2W0 on Ibeae 



id if their accea* to equity ar 



3ijBz,db»GoogIc 




L H-R-JMO-i 

m equal to 20* of their prior year"! dnioejiot to »™t» for low-income hominj. Thit 
I Ippaujo violate u alraoa "jncrad prL-wirjSe 1 that tu> bam lb* buit of investor 
on* on Ibate conspaiuu lince Fannie Matt privatization in 1 968, lb., Ihit the 
Ization ud gnu functiona. wbicn had been ■ part ol the "oW Fannie Mie liuce Ibe 
tin in mJU in CiinliM M 




i« IMlkcneoftne 

to the (Dora of forma CEO David Maxwell md the oi 

anentWed Finnie Maepaid Ibe nutietprice for IhebeH talent it could obtain. Tlmpoiicy 

differed markedly from the Fuaio Ma* in 1MM1. which wwfSdaly kept to oomp ena ition 



agnized byGOOgle 




nf all kind* of new mortgage product! which have drawn large amounts of new 

■ad capital Into housing, lowered [he coats of homing credit to the Anfriai 

l nude brae amounts of proGH for investors in Finnic Mse and Freddie 

Mk What's there not to lite •hoot this setup? I believe then mnovstiom would one been 
greatly retarded had the structure of new program approvals been in place aa proposed by thin 
bin M«eov«,[hFrq^toiyapparatuavutuaDycttHuvithnltnarewillbecoatinuoui conflict 

considerable nan time lo this process. Having, been u Fnrale Mm in the lite lE^O'i and 
having witniaanl Gnt hand the debilha tirf effect the protracted conflict with HUD had on 
management pencnnd and the company's operation at that time, 1 would hope that a 
regulatory apparatus can be deviled which, while prnnviag safety and soundness, is not 



P*?^ 



3ijBz,db»GoogIc 



National 

Low Income Housing Coalition 



Eton. Henry B. Gonzalez 
Qiainnan 

Committee on Ranlring, Homing and Urban Affairs 
U.S. Howe of Repretentativei 
i,DC 20315 



Dear Mr. Chairman: 

On behalf of toe Board and memben of the National Low Income Homing 
Coalition, I appreciate toil opportunity to write you concerning your proposed 
"Government Sponsored Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 
1991." 

The National Low Income Homing Coalition represents a national network of 
community-based organizations, low income residents, and other public and private 
agencies working to provide decent affordable bousing opportunities for low income 
people. The operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have never been as important 
in the fulfillment of this mission as they are today. Especially with the problems facing 
the FHA program and HUD'i disarray in many areas, the influence of toe secondary 
market institutions has grown. We commend you and your staff on the proposed 
legislation. We arc especially interested in the proposed Affordable Housing Program in 
the legislation for both agencies. 

The NLIHC received a copy of the legislation early on Wednesday morning. We 
are unable to testify at the scheduled hearings because of prior commitments that require 
key senior staff to be out of town. We do wish to submit a written statement on the 
legislation and ask that the hearing record be held open until at least Jury 26 for that 
purpose. In addition, I urge you to delay the scheduled mark-up of this bill The 
proposed schedule will make it almost impassible for our organization to fully digest the 
proposals, discuss them with our Executive Committee and make considered 
recommendations. The legislation is important to the future shape of federal, state and 
local efforts to support affordable bousing for low income people, and we wish to be as 
responsive to it as postMe. The short times made available for review of the legislation, 
preparation of testimony and participation in the mark-up process win severely limit our 
anility to participate. 



^Google 



I congratulate you on proposing this legislation. Your leadership and consistent 
concern for assuring affordable housing opportunities for low income people have made 
a major difference in the Ihet of million* of people. The legislation evidences this same 
conviction and leadership. The NUHC looks forward to working with you on this 
important effort, and appreciates the opportunity to than our views. 

Thank you for your consideration. 



ainccrciy, 

Barry zSga* 



!£ ibyG00gle 



MTIO NMto*^ Training and IntoniMtion^tntor 



O CNN* Mnoto MtfcMlM D (Mt) WW 



TESTIMONY SUBMITTED TO THE 
BOOS* BANKIMO COMMITTEE 

BY 

GALS CIHCOTTA 
EXECUTIVE DIRBCTOK OF OTIC 

July IS, i»i 

OH THE PROPOSED LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE 
THE FINANCIAL SATETY AND SOUNDNESS 



^iizad byGoogle 



foe thi» opportunity to submit testimony __ ,__, 

1*9 illation to improve tha safety and eoundnase of tbo Federal 
Motional Mortgage Aaaoolatlon (Fannie ma) and tha Fodaral Meow 
— -gage loon Corporation (Freddie Me), In ay pa— Mi I will 
rasa ay salt to tho aaondoonta to tha charters of tbaaa two 
corporation*, specifically those sections which doal with 
contributions to tha Fadaral Homa Loan Bank's Affordable Housing 
Program. 

i tha Low Pownps y ment, Affordable 

tha aoat affaotlvo way to aohlava such an lnoroaaa would bo to 
oatsbllah standards for Fannio Haa and Freddie Hie in tha araaa of 
low- and ■oderata- income hoooownorobip and low-downpeymant landing. 
I propoaa that a roasonabla standard would bo for mm and mufC to 
sake at loaat fio* of thair loans to households purchasing homes 
under $100,000 and foe 10* of thoaa to bo M dovnpaymnnt mortgages. 

Contributions to tha ABP fund, aa advantageous ■■ they ara, will 
not substitute for fundaaontal ehangoa in tha businass practicaa of 
Fannio Haa and Fxaddla Mac, 

As I have tost! f lad on nuaaroua occasion*, low-down p oymont , 
Flexible landing to low- and aodarsto-inoopa houaoholda oust become 
bualnaaa aa usual for Fannia Hae and Fraddia Mac. Tha 
proliferation of apaolal programs now being introduced la a vary 
positive and important step, but will also be a source of anourmoue 
confusion to lenders, especially smaller onee. 

For the aaka of accuracy I would like to point out that there 
appears to bo a subatantial difference between the openneaa of 
1. __ an(1 o( Freddie Kae to low-dow np ayant , affordable 



aortgages. Fannie Hae was involved in prototype demonstration 

programs with MTIC end private mortgage inaurara in 10 citis "-* 

evolved into the nationwide C o mmu nity Home tuyere Program, 



several other major initiatives which are part of the Open Door to 
Housing program. Freddie Mac has been involved in demonstration 
programa in three cities, and haa not smmsmdrnd the program, to our 
knowledge. 

A reasonable standard of openness in underwriting must influence 
the routine bueineee praoticee of tha two corporations in order to 
achieve a rationally functioning and open secondary market. Tho 
ultimata goal. In other words, la to ovolva beyond the numerous 
special niche progrems to fair landing in general. When the 
secondary market functions as it should, fewer special programs 
will bo needed to purchase loene mode to low- and moderate- income 
borrowers who era good credit risks. 



xibyOooyle 



loans for affordable houeing purchaoed or insured even by tIM meat 
dedicated and sincere participants. Volume is extremely low and 
•11 parties acknowledge It neade improvement. The impediment to 
progress llaa in tha difficulty of introducing raal change Into 
underwriting practices. Tha flexibility I refer to above la tha 
kay to achieving raaulta from all of tha promising -sounding 
programs which hava racantly baan lntroduoad. 

II. Contributions to the AHP 

I ballava it makes aanaa to raquira contributions to tha AHP fund 
in order to provida raaouroaa for affordabla houalng and avoid 
eraating a new bureaucracy, and that it la justified given tha 
advantagaa conferred on not* and rHUfc by their government - 
eponsored status. contributions, however, should not solely 
dependant upon earnings. in the first year both corporations 
Should be required to contribute $50 Billion the first year, $vs 
tha next, and (100 in tha third year, at aot of earnings, whichever 



Flexibility in funding la always of great value, and is constantly 
being etrlven for. This goal is apparent in the reoent switch rron 
categorical bousing progress to tha block grant approach of 
H.o.M.E., and in tha structure of tha currant Faderel Hose Loan 
Bank's Affordable Housing Program (AHP]. Increased homaovnerehip 
and affordabla rente 1 housing supply era necessary goals of a 
national housing policy, and asaistanca for both should be 
aval labia according to tha Mads, desires, and particular 
circumstances of different localities and neighborhoods. 

To Unit Fannie Mae's and Freddie Men's participation In tha AHP to 
activities which will not contribute to their fundamental elision 
is also illogical. Hany hearings hava bean held with the purpose 
of incraeelng tha involvement of these two corporations in the 
affordable hoaeownerehip market. It seems counter to this goal to 
limit their contributions to rental housing in this rigid fashion. 

Other concerns I have with tha AHP contribution approach are 



A.) Hill the distribution of tha additional funding be es 
groeely inequitable as the preeent distribution, based on profits, 
of tba AHP monies? Illinois end Wisconsin currently receive SI 
million dollars while California receives £37 million. 
Contributions from FKKA end FKLMC ehould be distributed based upon 
need. If the addition of theee funds lad to a fairer distribution 
of FHLB AHP monies, this would also correct an existing inequity. 



xibyOooyle 



FUI thia ■haul* not b* tm oaaa. aocaaa to th« fund* aaeuld b* 
broadanad to porait ganaral aecaas to contributiona froa Hot* and 

rauie. 

Apart froa thaaa faw concarna, I aupport wholahaartadly tha lda« of 
ualng thla raaourca for tha davalopatont of low- and aodorata-incoaio 
rantal housing and hooaovnsxahip. 



idbyGOOgle 



>^»t«CBsraW afrfcCcUa«. 

7« tW> Am*. New Yak, 1**** Mi) UWSmWO OthaEBIWIOO 



The Honorable Henry 8. Gonzalez 

Chairman, Commteee on Banking, Finance, and Uibtn Attain 

VS. House ol tUpr«cnDMfve« 

2129 Rayburn Houm Office Building 

... "■■■-, [DC 20515 



Dear Mr. Chairman, 



. iterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act at* 1ML in a sense, I apeak for 
ny firm's client*, Inititutioaal tamtou who are ai dak both at laapayin and at prima 
invcftort in the equity and debt instrument! of met* two agenda*, and an therefor* 



concerned ihai they be adeqna i aly wp i t a lrwd , property wpenfted tad m aji l atad, and abb 
U (Unction profitably. 

1 would address the following prints: 

1) The risk-based caritaln^retnent for crec»^ 

(Sac 201). A wide rang* of interpretations 1* poadble from the language in 
the Act. It can be Interpreted to call far a credit risk capital requirement of 
O60M to L609a, and nsmg Fannie Maa aa an eaample, from 12 billion to S7 
billion of capital at JunejQ, 1991. 



2) The opaa ended discretion of the Director to alter the ■— -aw I and 
operation! rijk capital requirement (Sec 201) should be 'Hi 1 " 1 ! at ft 
make* the capital standard w changeable a* to be no itandard at all, leading 
to uncertainty and rnanaaanvnt inability to plot long term strategy. 

3) The proposed tax on dividends (Secuoni 121 k and 122 i), and the amtarJoa 
BwlloB (Section* 121 a and 12T ** -*■-■■■■■ *■ - - ■- ■■•" 

t confidence of the private f 



DiQj-ized byGOOgle 



Thel«n(uj^e(ntheBmmustbe^«lutriypreci»iiiduttwhun»mbi|uoili,10tlitttb« 
Act achieves in intended objective. Tilt do«t not appear to bt toe case with the drift BID. 
It is possible, for cample, to irrive u very different capital requirement) under the credit 
risk component of trie risk-bated capital requirement (Section HIV For example, one could 
arrive at a requirement for Fannie Mae al June 30, 1991, ringing from is little M $2.0 
billion to is much as 17.0 billion. 

The itandardi mult be reasonable, that it, the capital requirement must be 

' - *- x - ' ■*■ -* — -- - J f*itn* If— *- --- -- --"- ' "- 

rillty to 
would force ihem to '" 



* mortgage nau'a .. 
■nini that would exacerbate the liquidity of the bousing lector, and limit its corttribution 
to the fledgling economic recovery. Mortgage rate* might fan by al much u 1/4* to 
1/2%, and possibly by much more. 



risk standard that is far too high. 

The wont three yean' lou experience In a region containing at least 5* of the VS. 

population, sustained for eight yean, could imply a credit risk, requirement of roughly 
1.60% for Fannie Mae. Fannie Mae's lou experience, during the three wont years, 
adjusted (or Fannie Mae's far more eowervatrve wkterwiftrog eunenny, would tuggest 
default frequency of roughly 1.40%, loss severity cd M%, arJ defiaiU Iceiei therefore equal 
to O.SO% of the unpaid principal balance (UF3) of its loan* end MBS. 



prices then remain at that depressed level for eight yean. The wont year for tome price* 
in the United States tinea reliable itaiUtk* bam been kept, beginning hi 1961, w*t 1990, 
when home price* rose Otftv The wont decline at a pomt tn than wa* November 1990 
versus November 1989. They declined by L9* nationally. Such an assumption would place 
bousing vtfam at the end of year eight, SM tiriow whan they wotild norn^ bt, gta 
home price appreciation at the 591 long-term trend nte over use eight year parted (L*. a 
1100.000 bom* that would normally tell for 1148,000 at the and of eight yean, would 
Instead be selling tor $65,000). 

The Texa* exp eri ence arose in a market where h 
matching what it generally beatvai' 
Deprcouon scenario it far too s 



•.Tney roust be able Wwi 

. it low of Ufa to the paae* _ 

at 90 MFB- The credit-risk component of the risk-based eapftal requirement, at least under 
the most conservative irrurpretation of bow it would be calculated, is far too ha; 



agnized byGOOgle 



1b ■ lean to Fannie Mw'i Chairman, ngned by former Chairman of to* Federal 
Reserve, Paul A. Voter, James D. Woowmmp. Inc. evaluated Fannfe Mm'i proposed 



HtceadBBtdlhilihiwiwndMdifaoiH^oowwcwttili fc iaiofttT^wcoutitcrtdti 
it* 250:1 or (W0«, tod fnteroet rate dak tor estAaaat sheet mortgages el »1 or XjOM) 

— , __■._ ....... ..... ...j j.... ..,_ ._ ^._ — tj^mUii — 




button* 



ortfaaa >g*ftde 



rOoptd a mortgage detank model, varr sunuar to those utafawd 
themselves, wMcn ii designed to predict mortgage detail expe 
tor bom* prices. We tben evaluated both Fin2e Mae's and P 



ghttnasy K 

NUc-tibai^iofk^wiAUireedatoiciUboMprk^ksEirh^iUneftti^ We condoned 
that their ability to withstand adverse bousing markets, to iom Ail any mat nave been 
wd on ■ national teak In this country since the Dcproei Ion, was wcabBoM 

Wa bcMewe that At standards which Faame Mm developed, and which Mr.Volkerend 
otben, iodudinf (Miraelvtt, bar* avahiated, thoold be adopted tor the credit rUk ootcpooenl 
of the risk-based capital requirexDcnt tor single family, fixed rata mortgages (recourse and 
coflateraHiwd credit risk equal to 0.40ft, norrrecoum credit risk equal to 0.74ft). 

We used our montage default model to ascertain what dadfaia In bona prices, then 
malmained at that depressed level tor me eight yean stipulated In the Act, would produce 
osa of 0.74ft. It would require an UM t a nt aaeous decline of 20ft on a national 
led far eight years. 

It standards tor muM family gsmMtaa and ARM ■■"<■■■ - — could be set at 
unfly fixed rata mongagi standard adjusted tor ma difference In default 
mate instruments. If ARMs made at SO* LTV default L5 timet as raadfly 
it for ARMi would be UxO.74%- 1.11ft. 



d bt happy to provide edditionel explanatory tad and eanfbio If h would be o( 

dJinargUtgitJUik Ramirwnrju 

la WW wa OBD dnct cd IB In depth research study over a Bra moon period, and 
paboabada 200 page research report which a»mloi^ Faonk Ma^ abWiy w wfttatand a 



agnized byGOOgle 



MO besb paint rbe in burnt mm over b two year period. Tbb b a aoenarlo aery abaflar 
to that mad by the rawxbk ami uet in the Act We cmchukd that th* oat tm ww 

over th* put wo ynn, by nindfnf 20*-25% of ta taofrterm. find nu swnsaftt with 
loa| term callable Mm, 



mfadw e< tkM ud tqulv thai b inadaMd «ltb th* b_ 

butirmt, awl b«£tt* endh cotti. Aft*r alteatiai 30 beeb pt ._. . 

rUkra«dr«m«moiilo*^thta]*Bv*»Mb*ibpotaapt*t*r. A 4) bath point eo nt ractiow. 



arar* pretax co la balnea iheet, 
tnortaaa* becked Mcraittet (MBS) 
ah pdhb of Oil to aotor th* endb 
Mas, A 4 J baik point cootraetir- 
M»eon ( ^u«wofaeWlbaibpoteiiMtarata^wouldlaava«b*ilipoiBi|pt<ta«,T 
ta, to* company would continue to am roughly SAW mmion on ta t MO hflnoa babi 
iheet, S123 bitticfl ofloant and «7 triUkn of invMOnanb, at th* nadir of profitabQ 
roughly 3 -* yaan out, and would than neovar. 

The two acenaric* dmallanaouahf _ 1) bona prior* down 2M natkoalb, and 2) mil 
up 500 • MO baab point* anatataad for arm ot aJabt van and at tba trouth, Fanrne Ma* 
would aacn raugbly S250 - WOO adflfoa batata tax**. WhOa tab wouU otnitrei* a drop of 
16ft from thb year*' pretax income of HO blUon, it would remain profitable. 

aojaabloa 
UMEMk 



Thi»r^r«m«n«l»uUikHUr»at,»»hliUxi«]yr«dandantwlttcr*te«ndral«ri«i. 
Howovar. ft ibould sot be made op tn -aadad aubbet to the dberanoa of HUD, aa tab 
•-T --•"'!" mini •rr'inlnp'rifflim jni ii m i n jin tlm ajii l i l i . -nr mrn nmrnim 
uncertainty for manaatmaffl that wonld prrrent the kind of loaf tana rjlanranf and 
panpaedve that h tha inderptaatnt of Mood manaaamaa! anteey. 



Idvm ton In the debt and *qu> of Fannie Maa and Fraddla Mae ar* lamhlv* to an 
doner* of rbk that b not wmtkmi at all ta thb Act, Psttbal Rbk. To *a private 
financial marker* thb rbk b fbj Mat aarloaa that eonfmob the Offln, W It ta beyond th* 
OMB^ofthabmanatarBaBb' ihfla. 

What b political rbkT Thb quceuon b eulry aoawand if you aih ycunetf how you 
would Mi placing your money at rbk, hi a verdure whoa* afofbaaoera* to yoooad* aflat 
a third parr* has attracted an interact, tha anwunt of wfahn iin*r*tt b iubj*ct to chuna, 
at any time? 

Toth«'prrauiavactor,Q^prap<Mad3Mtnoad1«lda^ 
under th* test. & would asaaredr/ bawe a aaanaba bia^ct oa th* way lhaae araarptbaa ara 



Seized byGOOgle 



407 

to analyst the loot term praepeca of tbe OSEt, and neftuvaly iapacona A* ebffity of the 
i rai»« capital to Snai 



ftM rt ia.n^ unayiaumMMMiMLQBBMyaaB 

Under political rfafc, m wB, belong die BmtoMlon on — ■ — I ecmpentaflon. It 
hmi Ironic, that the As MN flt » e»etad« the offken and walonM of tin Office of tfu 
Director (ran Hmrtattoot open cOMP»BwdOB (See. 1(H). prewnsaary » On Director aw 
attract OM technical MjMii necetnry to property regulate Dm antarprbee, while pttdnf 
limitation on the compcota t ion of eaecutm officer) of Funk Mae and Freddie lite. 
After alt, ibi Inner tie paid by tharehoUJen, the tormu by the taxpayer*, and both an 
eamwed with Dm respoRfMUty and duty to emure toe safety and wuodnett of tba 



The reaction of the Investment conwwinttjr to HirrirriOtt on mmaayirmnt compena rt oo 

k very Donative. Sucb limitation erode* co n fidence. And tbe ttr — L -' ~ ' 

K at mncb upon the way h h porcerved (Le. Imeetor ct 



It ia Blu ng th at tbe prooaei begun by tbe Oongfett mconcact with tbe Adnnniatration, 
by nacttn FPtREA, be comlramd and compl et ed with Hat Act. hkintbatnweMofaU 



) not nnpoeo |W dMdindi w ttnfe 
potaHe nuuMneaent talent, by (tonga 



agnized byGOOgle 



TESTIMONY OF 

PAULS. GROG AN 

PRESIDENT 

LOCAL INITIATIVES SUPPORT CORPORATION 



GOVERNMENT SPONSORED ENTERPRISES 

BEFORE THE 

SUBCOMMTITEE ON HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 

COMMITTEE ON RANKING, FINANCE, AND URBAN AFFAIRS 

JULY 19, 1991 



^Google 



TESTIMONY OF PAUL S. GROGAN 



Mr. Chairman and members of the Subcommittee, I appreciate the opportunity tc 
testify on proposed legislation (Hit 2900) concerning Government Sponsored Enterprises 
(GSEi), including the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal 
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac). My name it Paul Grogan. I am 
President of LISC, the Local Initiatives Support Corporation. 

About LBC CDCs. and GSEs 

LISC is the nation's largest nonprofit organization supporting nonprofit low-income 
community-based development corporations (CDCs). Since 1979, LISC has raised $479 
million from over 700 private donors and has assisted over 750 CDCs in the development 
of 26,000 low- and moderate-income housing units and 6 3 million square feet of commercial 
and industrial space, attracting an additional 11.5 billion for these community development 

CDCs have proven themselves against daunting odds. Operating in the toughest 
neighborhoods in America, CDCs emerged in the 1980s despite the federal government's 
budgetary withdrawal, an epidemic of drug abuse and violent crime, a housing crisis, and a 
national crisis of confidence that any social programs can work. But CDCs are succeeding 
indeed, with a traditional American formula of self-help, pragmatism, and perseverance. 

LISCs mission is to help CDCs not just to develop projects, but also to transform 
distressed inner-cities into strong diverse communities that are good places for low- and 
moderate income families to live, and to bring these communities into the social and 
economic mainstream of this country. 

But CDCs can continue to grow, and low-income neighborhoods can rejoin the 
economic mainstream, only if they have sufficient access to capital. Under your leadership, 
Mr. Chairman, the Housing Subcommittee and the full Banking Committee have recently 
taken two major steps in the right direction: last year by creating the National Affordable 
Housing Act, which places CDCs squarely in the center of a new federal housing policy; and 
earlier this summer, by preserving the Community Reinvestment Act after the Financial 
Institutions Subcommittee had voted to gut it. GSE legislation should be a third important 
step, because Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have the capability to connect low-income 
communities with national capital markets, which is, as you know, a big part of the financial 
mainstream. It is almost impossible to stabilize a neighborhood if banks will not lend there 
because they cannot sell the loans on the secondary market. 

That is why LISC has been devoting a great deal of effort to work with Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac While both institutions can and should do much more, we believe 
progress can be achieved. On a broad scale, Fannie Mae has committed $10 billion to 



^Google 



able homing and we understand Freddie Mac will be making a commitment of it* own 
'. Our work with Fannie and Freddie has focused on their unique capacity to provide 
ale capital for low-income homing at market rate*. We believe that this approach b 
em with both the mission and core business of theae GSEs, and therefore has the 
m and long-term impact. We have focused on three ai 
miry homeownenhip; mortgage fiimnrfng for low-inco 
d and cooperative homing; and equity financing for low-income rental housing. 

In 1987, L1SC began HomeSight, a comprehensive financing program to help 
CDCs produce affordable owner-occupied houses here in Washington, DC 
Fannie Mae joined LISC, local lenders, and the District government in the 
effort. Fannie's role is to purchase Erst mortgages originated by the financial 
institutions. So far, CDCs have used HomeSight to produce 150 homes. We 
are about to announce the support of Fannie Mae and the Home 
Improvement Industry Affordable Housing Coalition to expand the con ce pt 
to several other ode* nationwide. 

Earner this year, Freddie Mac and LISCs own secondary market affiliate, the 
I ^>ca] Initiatives Managed Assets Corporation- 1 JMAC- reached agreement 
on a bold new program to provide long-term fixed-rate financing for low- 
inonme multifumih/ housing. The program marks Freddie Mac's re-entry into 
multifemfly housing mortgage fjnpwf , Under the initiative, local financial 
institutions will originate the mortgages and sell them to LIMAC, retaining 20 
percent of the risk on a pro-rata basis. LIMAC will pool the mortgages and 
swap the pools for mortgage backed securities guaranteed by Freddie Mac, 
with LIMAC providing additional credit enhancement to Freddie. LIMAC 
wul then market the Freddie Mac-guaranteed securities to investors, including 
pension funds and insurance companies. The initial program of $105 milBon 
has great potential for expansion. 

Both Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae are investors in LISCs low-income 
housing equity funds. Since 1987,LJSC"s equity funds have raised J2»mtthon 
from corporations based on the Low Income Housing Tax Credit for CDC- 
iponsored developments. We are investing these funds in 180 CDC sponsored 
projects with WOO low-income housing units. Freddie Muc is our largest single 
investor at $38 rnfllion, and hurt year was one of our two lead investors, along 
whn Warren Buffctt's Berkshire Hathaway, at $25 trillion. At you know, the 
Credit is the primary federal tool for producing tow-income rental housing. 
We hope you will do everything possible to ensure its extension this year on 



^Google 



71k proposed Affordable Homing Program (AHP) is the part of the bill that matt 
direct]}' addresses the needi of low-income housing. We appreciate and endorse the 
objective erf involving Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac more deeply in low-income housing. 

However, we are concerned thai the AHP could have unintended adverse effects and 
will not take advantage of these GSEs' unique and pivotal role in mortgage finance. 
Congress has already clearly embarked on a policy that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should 
be essentially private institutions that can attract private capital while fulfilling their federal 
charter to foster affordable bousing. Investors would be understandably concerned if 
Congress require* Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to contribute subsidy funds as proposed 
under the AHP, especially since the AHP could set a precedent for other similar 
requirements in the future. The result could be to impede Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's 
ability to raise investment funds. We believe that the government should be the primary 
source of housing subsidies. Congress should provide full funding for the HOME program 
and permanently extend the Low Income Housing Tax Credit 

Moreover, the AHP could send the wrong signal to Fannie and Freddie that low- 
income homing - and especially low-income rental housing - is a charitable activity rather 
than a business activity. This would be equivalent to telling a bank it can fulfill its CRA 
responsibilities by making charitable contributions rather than making loans. Charitable 
contributions on a voluntary basis are entirely appropriate and should be strongly 
encouraged, as we discuss below, but what matters most is that low-income housing and 
communities have access to the mainstream mortgage financing that only the secondary 
market can provide. That this is the message conveyed to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is 
particularly important at a time when their commitments to low-income housing are still 
being institutionalized. 

As an alternative to the AHP as proposed, we would offer the following. 

• First, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should collect and disclose data on the 
loans they buy about the income, race, and gender of homebuyers and the 
affordability of rental housing to low-income people, as well as the location of 
the housing and whether government subsidies are involved. Of particular 
interest are whether the bousing is located in low-income census tracts, and 
how many beneficiaries meet various federal income standards (i.e., SO, 60, 
and 80% of area/state median.) Where multifamiry housing is involved, the 
focus should be on the affordability of initial rents and the targeting 
requirements of any public subsidies involved in the projects. Without such 
baseline data, we cannot really know what the GSEs are doing or whether 



^Google 



Second, Fannie and Freddie should announce publicly their own targets for 
addressing the housing finance needs of low-income people and communities 
on an annua] basis, as well as how they intend to meet them, and then report 
annually to Congress on their progress. 

Third, Fannie and Freddie should voluntarily embark on the development of 
a series of financing experiments, and commit the necessary capital to 
underwrite then). The premise should be that there are many innovative ways 
to fill special tow-income financing market niches at an acceptable level of 
risk. While most of these financing products may never achieve the volume 
of activity that Fannie and Freddie normally seek in a financing product, they 
can generate a market-rate yield with low default rates, if only they get the 
chance to prove themselves. Until this track record is demonstrated, Fannie 
and Freddie should decide voluntarily develop and underwrite these 
specialised products. Fannie and Freddie should describe these efforts in their 
anuual report to Congress. 

Fourth, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should expand their corporate giving 
programs, also on a voluntary basis. Low-income housing and community 
development and strengthening CDCs should be prominent parts of these 
programs. We applaud Fannie Mac's initial efforts in this regard and urge 
Freddie Mac to follow suit Fannie and Freddie are among the leading 
corporations in the United States today, and they should join the leadership 
ranks in corporate giving, especially in light of their affordable housing 
mission. Twenty-five companies, including Cummins Engine, Adorph Coon, 
Pfflsbury, RJR Nabisco, Hewlett-Packard, Sbearson Lehman Hutton, and 
Gannett each contribute over 3 percent of their net earnings before tax. 
Famrie and Freddie should describe their contributions efforts in their annual 
report to Congress. 



First, a new and independent Office of Secondary Market Examination and 
Oversight (OSMEO) would be established within HUD with regulatory 
responsibility for the safety and soundness of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, 
but HUD itself would have broader oversight responsibilities. To prevent a 
problem (rf conflicting regulators, we believe that the same entity that oversees 
safety and soundness should also oversee the GSE'i broader housing mission. 
While safety and soundness hi in everyone's interest, we are concerned that a 
regulator focusing only on safety and soundness will not take into account the 
impact of its actions on low-income housing and communities. We have beard 



^Google 



s 

of a similar phenomenon among federal banking regulators, where the 
requirement! of safety and soundness examiners thwart the efforts of CRA 
examiners to encourage community investments. It will be hard for Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac to pursue low- and moderate-income housing initiatives 
vigorously in the face of conflicting (or indifferent) regulators. 

• Second, HUD should not have prior approval authority for new products 
proposed by Fannie and Freddie. This requirement would probably stifle the 
creativity needed to generate the lands of new financing products that Fannie 
and Freddie should be developing to serve low- and moderate -income people 
and neighborhoods. 

• Third, OSMEO should not have the power to increase Fan nic Mae's and 
Freddie Mac's capital requirements arbitrarily. This would be especially 
problematic if OSMEO has no responsibility for oversight on the GSEs' 
broader bousing mission. It would be too easy for OSMEO to reason that If 
safety and soundness is the only objective, then requiring more capital is 
better. 

In short, these provisions all would tilt Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac away from the 
Is of innovations needed to lerve low-income people and communities, and Congress 

rid not proceed with them. 



. I appreciate your consideration of them. 



!£ ibyG00gle 



team*>. wclx 4 Co. I M InM tm* I Nn ftm. Nh V»rt WM 

tm: zu-wa-ift* 

BoMrt a. HatttflMfl, * 

°~™" SSST" 



TM HMonNi Mnrf ■. • 



T tatt ya u to **m n» IW oppenu ntj » ggg Wf »j— - My Mm fc Womb HoMnowi. 2 »w 
» MMI WtoM Hangup NHMrikn F"*»4 HdaJiMNmlM 



■ m pwwdw mm mum ww— pi#jti ■ momma tn— > to ■*> bb mmm <$ 

ruiM*» in—ni mom iMiiMiiiinin ■mjmj i— nm— ■ ■■- 
MMKMn MMMkB my MM, HOpjMr? "" 



■Ml ■ MM —j oJ houMnp, mliw, id rWWMJgi I 
won. I taw HiUliplJ wrong opttomon MM) el fa| 



*HUO. mri«.f»iiiMiii*»iMnMiilBplnQgp 



imm mm»jm mj|jommmm»CT 

now o> lunoii to w Mga rty " wmmjo mii im w BM4wJ JMm u»m. O mimmm. mm 
to How rtlrary rtruotao Ho Vw ooorMng Mo» of hmN Ma ond ftodeu Mm. I Mm tM 



agnized byGOOgle 



ngn 



I B«MMMi«M imwH MM MnNy to 



■nd pNHHna PMk Wm M MdM Mm. I MM M *• llS •> MMM MM at 



m n th» wMnto 



w VMM MM « *• nw* 



— W—ti — mmg Ib ■— wt hwi mh 1 

._ . wywwi at w wi w hn*m x « wnmd *m« m 

Mm mn www — » m mm « mm m m m ■— r 



hBMMMJM w j> —» » — m (WW II I— m 



3ijBz,db»Google 



416 

NMONAL ASSOCIATION OF REAL ESTATE BROKERS. «C. 



i the regulation P'iinjmOj» 

trad Eaternrleea 

The national Aaeeciatlna of Baal Batata Bxokare, Iw. 

MSSS ia the -laroaat aad- eldeet minority real HtMt trad* 
aeMoiation in Juaurioa. moaned in 1MT uiaiui local chaptere 
In text; two state* and national haadanaxtere in aaehlnoton, B.C. 
■inue 1970. KUOB naabera principal market u urban ftaerlae. 

The on operating mandate of privet* lavaatora nerving a public 
purpose haa worked wall for the inventor and audi of the bona 
buying, public. it baa not worked aa wall as it ooald far the 
taxpayer and not aa mil aa it ahocld for minor itiaa and woman, 
particular ly thoae ia America 'a urban oantera. 

Vhara have been many reporta on the ef fectlveneae of Fannie Mae end 
Freddie Mac . The ■out notable f roe the Congressional Budget Of f lew 
(CBO) and the Canaral Accounting Of flee (010). 

other studies paint ant the ineffeer.lveneaa of the general private 
lending rraaa inlty (primary, secondary and insurera) ia urban and 
minority markete. The University of California at Berks leye' study 
of mortgage lending pattanw in Oakland, CA by profeasor David 
Rooaea, to the Inaticnto for punlie policy ftndiaa at Taenia 
Onlverilty on the aaae subject by Br. Tra aoldateln both point out 
tha overwhelming disparity of availability of mortgage capital to 
finance heqalag In urban oantera and the ore tail minority 



idbyGOOgle 



la light el the banking crlele do em diepotaa tha naoeeaity of 
WIMMb U Tllk baaed capital roqnliaaa n tt for tha MI'i. The 

Traaanry Dapartaaata prcpoaed rcqpl v ca n iti aaaa to plan the Oil'* 
in tha sua cetegory " beaka and earlaaje inetiWtleoa. The oo'a 
ho ped far new capital caaairaawaCa anal regulation ia predictably 
•all aorving, leaving the taxpayOE nore or pooed than feaeibla. 

Uchough HOD faaa fox aoaa tia* regulated Fannie and anin KM 
new regulatea Freddie their loan nnaerwsitiag oriteria waa anti- 
urban araaa and their pereenael, anti-alnority and wobbd landing. 
Tbaxa baa been no atrong aandata froa nm for tbaaa agencies to 
provida loan prudocta for tha urban Be— I unity. Tha prograaa) now 
being promoted ia urban and alnoti.tr araaa ara a zoiolt of tha 
Coanunity leinvoac-ant AM of 1B77 f CML) . Tha CM landtag progroai 
baoaaa a fame of landece becanee of tboit need to grow, not any 
perceived a n — un ity napaoaibllity. sioae tbaaa eenvaatieaal 
lendara ara client* of Fannie and Freddie the UO'i eat lnroleed to 
aid and abet their urban diaiaraatiaaj, racial and gender 
diacrisinatiag clienta. The on aad lending lndnetry allianoa 
agreed anieeraall* that urban and Minority or Can landing oreated 
highly speculative and riakj invaatnoata. CM landing did not 
begin to ba taken eerioaely natil federal regulator* etepped the 
purohaee of a failed ariiona inetltotion by Continental Bank of 
Illiaaia la lftf. 

nm had participated in aooh challaagoa Ira l»7S with aoaa being 
eoeceaaful natil toe KMM (JUMosiatien of Coaamnity Organisation* 
fat Baton Bow], laad obeUenee of Continental. 

Tha GM'i culm of providing historic regional atafaility of 
aoztgega rata* and lower origination faaa to borrower* Boat ba 
challenged. Challenged by tha facta of araaa Unfit a | inatablllty 
a ajaa aa ataf aertgagc ratee aad ariginatiag coat loo basic pointa, lit 
both oategoxlea, above the regional averages, farther eredueing an 
origination to lean eloeing ratio of 1 to 1 when iiaaajailm 
urban/ ninority ana. ana* a nertgaes aaakara te tha regional najorlty . 



3i«j!izad byGOOgle 



The oonventiooal 1— ding oi—unltj did not ohoea to davalop ooit 
effective mm of loan origination and cloelog In CI* areas. 
Thereby supporting tbmic claim of tbese areas being unprofitable to 



xrial I 

inarsaaing overall coat to tl» taxpayer. OO'i moat be — ~*-*~ * by 
regulation to produce profitable urban land lag produota. She 
efforts of ffannie Km'i Law and Moderate Inoona Dirlaion are 
admirable, bat atill anon too little, while Its getting mnch to 
late. Raddl* Mac dome all It can to avoid the iaaue of CU. 
urban or minority landing. Tbera la much aore tlna and Bone* •pant 
■ putting a good faoa an what "f forte- aza being 
■ that oaa 

profitably eerva thla neglected aegaant o£ aoclaty. Tha favorable 
GML ratings received by mortgage landare fox anaailc Brodnctioa of 
affordable hauling and Minority loans a 
in CU program, derelopaent. 



banks and private mortgage Insurers have data alao supporting thin. 
MaBBH n u anara throughout Amacice hare d w alopad or worked vitn 
profitable affordable housing and n in— ■ in r I devel apnea t effort* ao 
haw* national and looal non-profit groups . Oar biggest Inpedl— it 
is the leek of aaatelned iiiiIibuI to nake tha en lama a 
profitable c a nn uity building, tax saving and municipal Eevemue 



:,ii, y C(K>yle 



To t— long tm itiUUt} •( tho ou'i (All* fulfilling thair 

publiaVprivata parpoaa nm faala dm ragulatory aaixlata »wt 

inelndai 

1. ItMIVt * anacifio BftJMMt *i profit befor* anpl n yao 
Ihhhii, not to ba balaw a iri-f— " amount, tat tho 
davolopnmt of CM tacgotad loan product*. 

3. Kudttt • opocifia pMMM of CM loaae M ■ part af 
fwr IhI latate H or t g a ga Invasnaat Conduit |Onc| and 
CollataialiiadNortgaga Obligation, (CMO) , aold by ranldLa 
km and Praddia Mae. 

3. faa CU'i bald caartarly rational adviaocy nn—l ■■!— 
poBlio * oruna on CM landing actlvitio* In eonjanotioa 
with thalr ragnlar adviaocy t io —ltt— or Soacd of 

Diractore naatinga. 

4. A prognaiivw noantary paaalty fox lam than 15% af tho 
loana porch** ad having a »S* loan to valna ratio to no 
aanaaaad on a laai-annoal taaaia. 

3. Placing gnalifind aaaoita of UM1 en tnaic Board of 
Direotora, national and national Adviaocy m— in in 
(*bn national uaooiation af laaltora oppnnad ovary pinoo 
Of fall homing and landing lagialatien bafora ccograaa, 
including CM and Tit la Tvalara of nBB, but have 
Mandated slot* an tbo Mt'a loaM and ttviaory 



BBploynant of qualiflad ninoiitie* in vie* proaioaet and 
abova poaitlOM anile initia t ing goal (not quota) 
•xlontod iaolaaioa af ■inexitio* in etkar aaaagaaant 
level poaitlOM, being raflactiva of tbo era* acnckforoa. 



^ized byGOOgle 



The tMEBMiva inclusion of urban k iH Minority i 



Htm tint began -orkiog -Ith Panola Hu la 1174. Our nt»ia 

have infrequently earred on Its Board «f Directors, Ifivleory 
Co—ittooa and special task I m wi throughout our relationship. 
RMtBn's involves* nt helped establish the im and Nodazata laccaa 
WMiM Division at rannla mm. Manfaara of IUsa and Fannie Ma* 
will ittMt tha relationship ia DMWMtT and >o*t ba inproved to 
establish lusting positive tsaulti. 

If thia relationship ia established by regulation It takes tha baat 
Off tha «'• with their tanking clientele and radooa a aiiatlng 

staff frictions on tha issue of minority inclusion, lb* prooeee of 
profitable Ot landing work* baat wfaan tha hiatorioal Minority 
business oonwonity ia Included on a ■oaninjfnl basis. Thia 
inclusions will enhance tha safety and ■o—d— a of tha urban rami 
estate aarfcet whlla decreasing WnaiMta urban decer and increasing 
revenue to urban Municipalities. Thereby truly fulfilling the 
purpose of tha SSI's in a safe sound and profitable nanner. 



Ud Ksigl* 
l Cranston 



xibyOooyle 



Written Testimony 

to the United States House of Representatives 

Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development 

oh the Subcommittee's Consideration of the 

Federal National Mortgage Association 

and 
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 



Submitted by: 

Hick Powtll 

Prtsidtnt 

CtUfarni* Association of REALTORS' 

July 17, 1091 



IffTHOOUCTIOH 

As President of the California Association of REALTORS*, the statewide trad* 
association representing the Interests of 145,000 real estate licensees In 
California, I am grateful to have tha opportunity to present C.A.R.'s 
perspectives on the two government- sponsored housing enterprises- -tha Federal 
National Mortgage Association (FNHA) and Federal Horn Loan Mortgage 
Corporation (FHUK). 

C.A.R. would like to preface Its remarks by emphasizing that It Is strongly 
committed to the continued vitality of the FNHA and FHLK. The need for 
accessible and affordable finance is a crucial on* for hoaabuyers In the high- 
cost California housing market. The Importance f the mortgage affordabUHy 
provided by the FNHA and FHUC has grown In recent years In high-cost housing 
States Hke California due to tha decreasing applicability of low-cost FHA 
financing. Static loan limits and harmful program changes such as 
restrictions on tha financing of non-recurring closing costs have served to 
make FKA-insured loans lass and less of an option for moderate- income and 
first-time noMbuytrs In California. 

By Improving the efficiencies of the mortgage market, the FNHA and FHLK 
represent a cornerstone of the federal government's commitment to increased 
rental and ownership opportunity for the American people. He believe, and all 
evidence points to the fact, that the FNHA and FHLHC have fulfilled their 
mission' in a fiscally conscientious manner. 



xibyGooyle 



In general, C.A.R. believes the subcoiwil ttee ' s draft bill, the Government- 
Sponsored Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1991, 
represents an important initial step towards meeting the dual goals of 
preserving the critical home financing role placed by the FHMA and FHLHC ami 
minimizing any financial risk posed by the FNHA and FHLHC to the nation s 
taxpayers. He strongly concur with the preamble of the subcoaarit tea's draft 
bill which states that the FNHA and FHLHC 'pose minimal ffnancia risk to the 
Federal Government* and that 'the continued ability of the FNHA and FHLHC to 
accomplish their public Missions Is Important to providing housing In the 
United States and (to) the health of the nation's economy. " 

C.A.R. believes that In many respects the subcammlt tee's draft legislation 
proposes a superior approach towards regulating and minimizing the risk of the 
GSEs than 1s proposed in the Treasury Department's GSE legislation (HR 2747). 
While our testimony go into considerably autre detail, C.A.R. 's primary 
concerns with respect to GSE legislation are: 

The preeminent responsibility of the regulator of the FNHA and 
FHLHC should be to ensure that the federally sponsored housing 
GSEs Meet their mandate of providing American hoewbuyers with 
access to affordable mortgage credit; 

Oversight of the FNHA and FHLHC should be vested In a department 

of the government whose primary responsibility is housing SO that 
the FNMA's and FHLHC's commitment to increased housing opportunity 
can be best balanced against the need to Manage their business 
operations In a prudent manner 

Capital standards Instituted for the FNHA and FHLHC should be 
commensurate with the relatively low degree of risk associated 
with nvestments in residential Mortgages; 

The authority to determine the proper capital standards for the 
FNHA and FHLHC should remain with the Congress, rather than be 
relinquished to the Executive Branch of government; and, 

Methods of determining the capital adequacy of the FNHA and FHLHC, 
such as through Interest rate and credit risk stress-tests, should 
be specifically written into law by the Congress." 



Oversight: Safety and Soundness vs. Housing Hlsslon 

C.A.R. supports vesting the authority to oversee the FNHA and FHLHC, both 
prograamatlcally and In terms of safety and soundness, within HUD, as is 
proposed in the subcommittee draft. While we have misgivings over the teeming 
lack of support and enthusiasm HUD has shown for its FHA program In recent 
years, C.A.R. believes that regulation of the FNHA and FHLHC rightly belongs 
in HUD. We do believe, however, that HUO's preeminent regulatory 



xibyOooyle 



responsibility with respect to the FNMA/FHLHC should be to ensure that the 
federally sponsored mortgage market entities moat their mandate of providing 
M*r1c»n homebuyers with access to affordable mortgage credit. 

The drift bill would delegate the authority to regulate the FMU and FHUK to 
two offices within the Department of Housing and Urban Development. A new 
Office cf Secondary Market Examination and Oversight (OSHEO) would be 
eitabllshed within HUD to regulate the safety and soundness of the FNKA and 
FHUC. The Director of the OSMEO, who would be appointed by the President and 
confirmed by the Senate, would be responsible for: establishing capital 
standards to measure the risk Involved in proposed new FNHA/FHLHC activities; 
examining the financial condition of the FNHA and FHLMC; appointing 
conservators for the FNHA and fHLMC if their critical capital ratios fell 
below minimum levels; and, approving or disapproving dividend payments by the 
FNHA/FHLHC in the event the risk-based capital, minimum capital or critical 
capital levels of the entitles fell below minimum, proscribed standards. 

While the Director of OSHEO would b« responsible for ensuring the safety end 
soundness of the FNHA and FHLHC. the HUD Secretary would retain authority over 
the eSE's programmatic housing mission. Furthermore, the bill would require 
the HUD Secretary to approve new products proposed by the FNHA end FHLHC. 

Thus, the subcommittee print proposes a division of regulation within the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development with respect to the housing SSEs. 
The OSHEO Director would be responsible for ensuring that the FNHA and FHUK 
conduct their business operations 1n a prudent manner at as sma 1 as risk to 
taxpayers as possible while the HUD Secretary would ensure that the FNHA and 
FHLMC meet their statutory mission of ncreasing the rental and ownership 
housing opportunity of the AMrlcan people. 

While such a division of regulation may make sense on paper, C.A.R. It 
extremely concerned that the proposed regulatory arrangement will Man that 
new and innovative FNHA/FHLHC products and programs will be stifled and 
delayed by the bureaucratic process. One arm of HUD will decide whether to 
permit new activities while another arm will determine under what capital 
requirements the new activity must be conducted. Both the FHHA and FHLHC have 
been extremely successful at responding quickly to rapidly changing market 
conditions. C.A.R. has serious reservations as to whether HUD will be able to 
approve and decide upon the proper capitalization level for new activities 
proposed by the GSEs In as timely a fashion. 

C.A.R. also has reservations about implementing a regulatory schoae which. In 
practice, would verge on mlcromanagement sf FHHA and FHLHC activities. Why 
should the FNHA and FHLHC be forced to obtain prior HUD approval for a 

C reposed new activity If the entity's capital equals or exceeds minimum risk- 
■sed capital requirements? We believe such Intervention in the business 
activities of the FNHA and FHLHC is unnecessary If the entitles are, in fact, 
well-capitalized. Such mlcromanagement of the housing GSEs could well Inhibit 
their abi Ity to respond quickly to housing market conditions through the 
development of innovative products and services such at the recently developed 
3/2 Option loan. 



xibyOooyle 



■re not backed by the full filth end credit of the United States. This being 
the cut, w do not believe that m 1c management of the FNHA end FHLHC by HUD, 
I government department, 1s appropriate. 

He are also quite concerned that ensuring the safety and soundness of the FMU 
and FHLHC could take regulatory primacy over ensuring that the FNHA and FHLHC 
aeet their statutory housing goals. C.A.R.'s concern seems especially wild 
in light of the fact that the responsibilities of the OSHEO Director would not 
be subject to review by the HUD Secretary. Thus, the Director of the OSMEO 
could establish arbitrary risk-based capital standards for nnovative FNHA and 
FHLHC activities which night nhibtt the ability of the entities to fulfill 
their affordable housing mission. Under the drift bill, the HUD Secretary, 
however, would have no authority to countermand such onerous capital standards 
even If the requirements did, in the view of the HUD Secretary, unnecessarily 
hana a key component of the federal government's housing support system. 

The FNHA and FHLHC art safe and sound. All Indications are that they will 
continue to operate in a safe and sound Banner, especially 1n view of the 
public lfaelfght which is now shining so brightly on the FNHA and FHLHC. 
Given this strength, C.A.R. believes that the GSE legislation approved by 
Congress should provide for the primacy of the programmatic regulator over the 
safety and soundness regulator. 

Capital 

C.A.R. believes that any housing GSE legislation approved by the Congress 

Should specify the minimum capital, core capital and critical capital 
standards applicable to the FNHA and FHLHC We believe strongly that Congress 
should retain the authority to determine proper capital requirements for the 
housing GSEs. This responsibility hould not be rellnqu shed to the Executive 
Branch of the federal government. We believe the provisions of the 
subcommittee draft In this respect represent a definitive Improvement over the 
Treasury's proposed bill which, relative to leverage and critical capital 
ratios, would have provided the GSE regulator with the authority to establish 
'such other percentage* of 'on- and off-balance sheet' obligations as believed 
necessary te ensure the safety end soundness of the FNHA and FHLHC. . 

With One major exception, C.A.R. Is generally pleased with the capital 
prov ions of the subcommittee's bill. Again, we believe, as the subcommittee 
has done, that t is Imperat ve on the part of the Congress to specifically, 
n statute, provide for all capital measures that are to apply to the FNHA and 
FHLHC and to their activities Thus, we appreciate the work of the 
subcooaHttee in including n ts draft legislation specific stress-tests to 
measure the credit risk and interest rate risk of mortgages owned or 
guaranteed by the FNHA and FHLHC. i 

Under the credit risk stress-test, the FNHA and FHLHC would have to maintain 
positive capital during a simulated eight year period during which default i 
losses occurred on a national level at the rate they occurred In a 'standard' 



*j by Google 



a positive capital during ■ simulated eight-year period during which 
rates increased or decreased by the lesser of 500 bails points or SO percent 
of the average long bond rote in the year prior to the simulated eight-year 
test period. 

Showing their strength, both the FNHA and FHLNC have Indicated that they would 
Maintain positive capital under the proposed credit risk and interest rate 
risk stress-tests. C.A.R. recommends that Congress preserve the specific 
stress-tosts proposed m tha subtonmlttee draft bill In the final housing GSE 
bill it sends to the President. 

Since C.A.R. believes specific capital standards for the fnma and FHLMC should 
be Included in any housing GSE bill approved by the subcommittee, we are 
opposed to section 201(a)(3) of the subcommittee draft which would give the 
OSHEO Director unilateral discretion to Increase (or decrease) regulatory 
capital held for Management and operations risk. Evidently, some HUD 
officials have already stated that, rather than the 20 percent standard 
proposed in the subcommittee draft, the capital standard for Management and 
operations risk should be 50 percent or 75 percent of the FNHA's or FHLMC'S 
regulatory capital requirements. We are concerned about the possibt fty that 
the OSHEO Director would Increase required management and operations capital 
deterring the FHHA and FHLMC from taking the risks that are fundamental In 
devising products to assist housing, especially types of housing with 
significant Management and operations risks, such as aultifaMlly housing. 

Along these same lines, C.A.R. Is also opposed to section 101(a)(4) of the 

subcommittee draft which would permit the OSHEO Director to establish 
'appropriate* regulatory capital requirements for new GSE activities for which 
the FMU or FHlmc has obtained the approval of the HUD Secretary. Going back 
to our belief that programmatic regulation of the FNHA and FHLMC should take 
primacy over safety and soundness regulation, this provision would give the 
OSHEO Director de facte authority to prohibit new FNHA/FHLHC programs. 

It Is not difficult to envision situations in which the HUO Secretary would 
approve a new activity as desirable from a housing point of view, but which 
the OSHEO Director views as too risky from a safety and soundness vantage 

foint. In such occurrences, the OSHEO Director could simply establish such 
Igh capital requirements for the new activity that participation 1n the 
activity would not be cost-effective. Thus, while the HUD Secretary might 
have viewed the proposed new activity as beneficial and necessary, the OSHEO 
Director could overrule the deterMtnatton of the HUD Secretary. 

Sain, C.A.R. believes programmatic act vlties should be the chief concern 
th respect to regulation of the FNHA and FHLHC, and In no event do we 
believe Congress should transfer to the Executive Branch the authority to set 
such high capital requirements for new activities that It would all but 
preclude tha FNHA or FNHA froM participating In such activities. 



xibyOooyle 



In general, C.A.R. believes the specific capital standards proposed in the 
subcommittee draft bill ire comensurate with the relatively low degree of 
risk associated with investments In residential mortgages. He ire else 
pleased that the specific capital levels proposed in the subcommittee's draft 
bill are no more onerous that those proposed in the Treasury's legislation. 

The specific capital standards proposed in the subcommittee's draft do not 
appear to be overly burdensoM from the perspective of the present capital 
condition of the FNMA and FHLHC. Indeed, both housing GSEs have said that 
they would currently, or could soon. meat the capital requirements proposed in 
the draft bt C.A.R. contends the subcommittee for devising specific 
capita requirements which Will protect taxpayers while not prohibiting the 
FNHA and FHLHC from fulfi ing the Mission for which they were created. 

Affordable Housing Prograa 

C.A.R. Is appreciative and supportive of the goals of the Affordable Housing 
Prograa (AHP) proposed In the subcommittee draft, especially those goals 
pertaining to Increased ownership housing opportunities for low-Income 
Americans. Ve are concerned, however, with the mechanism proposed to fund the 
Affordable Housing Program. In particular, we are concerned that this effort 
to aid affordable housing programs will end up doing more harm than good by 
mpactlng the fNHA's and FHLMC's ability to raise cap tal The draft 
legislation would require the FNHA and FHLHC to make contribut ons equal to 20 
percent of the prior year's dividend payments to ass st states and localities 
In the acquisition, development and rehabilitation of rental and ownership 
housing for very low- and low-Income households. 

Through a loss of capital leverage and programmatic efficiencies, the 
proportion-of -dividend requirement will make less money available to low- and 
moderate-income hous ng than if the FNHA's and FHLHC s used these funds to 
capital ze existing programs providing financing for such housing. Both the 
FNHA and FHLHC have established programs and new innovative services to ltd 
low- and moderate-income housing efforts which are helping to address the 
needs of these groups. 

C.A.R. also has serious concerns with the provision of the AHP authorizing the 
HUD Secretary to monitor FNHA and FHLHC pricing practices to ensure that the 
cost of the AHP is not passed on the investors. Section 313(c)(2) of the 
draft bill states that the HUD Secretary shall review the fees and charges 
imposed by the corporation... to ensure" that 'fees or charges for the services 
of the corporation* are not Increased. 

This language raises the potentiality of the HUD Secretary being involved In 
the hundreds of fee and price decisions made by the FNHA and FHLHC each day. 
Given a need to adjust prices for market, competitive and non-related 
purposes, this requirement could truly bring the business of the FNHA and 
FHLHC to a complete halt. Hlcromanagement again becomes an Issue. 



Kit* Google 



COHCUBIOH 

In closing, C.A.R. «Uhes to emphasize that all studies done of tha FHHA and 
FHLHC shew that tha housing GSEs post lUtl* risk, If any risk at all, to tha 
nation's taxpayers. As noted above, tha preamble to tha subcommittee's draft 
legislation recognlzas tha Minimal financial risk posed by tha FHHA and FHLHC 
to federal taxpayers. There Is simply no comparison between the multi- 
billlon dollar bailout of the SAL Industry and the safety and stability of tha 
federal housing 6SEs. Consequently, there is no need to overregulate the FMH 
and FHLHC or to place a non-existent safety and soundness threat over 
programmatic regulation. 

The California Association of REALTORS* eppreciates the opportunity to coaasent 

on the important legislative issues before the Housing and Community 
Development Subcommittee. If you have any questions concerning our GSE 
testimony or if C.A.R. can provide the subcoe*fttee with any further 
Information, please do not hesitate to contact Leslie Apple ton- Young, Vice- 
President of Research and Economics, at (213) 739-3325. Thank you. 



xibyOooyle 



PREPARED STATEMENT OF ELLEN SCHLOEMER, FIRST VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE 
STRATEGY AND PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT AT GE CAPITAL MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
Mr. Chairman, my name h Ellen Schloerner and I am First Vice President of 
Corporate Strategy and Program Development at GE Capital Mortgage Corporation ("GE 
Capital Mortgage") of Raleigh, North Carolina. I am pleated to submit this testimony on 
HJt 2900, legislation regarding the financial soundness of governmem-sjxMuored housing 
enterprise*. This itatemem will focus specifically on efforts to provide homing for the 
"affordable" lector of the lKWierrwoersuip market, pai ticularry those young families and 
lower-income homebuyers who need low downpayment mortgages in order to qualify for a 
modest, reasonably-priced hame. These are familiei who would generally be priced nut of 
the market without the availability of low-downpsymeut loans. It it important to recognize 
that the basic 95 and 90 loan-to-value (5% Rod 1096 downpayment) loans are the backbone 
of an affordable housing program in the conventional market. Special initatives further 
expand homeownership opportunities to larger segments of the lower-income population. 
Efforts to promote homeownership for these families have been developed by OB 
Capital Mortgage in partnership with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, community groups, state 
governmeuts, labor unions, and, of course, lenders. As Jim Johnson, Chairman and CEO 
ofFaniiie Mae said earlier this year of his own company, "We are a financial partner, not a 
sole provider of housing. We work with others — lenders; developers; community groups; 
and federal, state and local governments. Without dedicated partners with a (take in the 
enterprise, we cannot succeed. We will go out of our way to find partners and develop new 
partnerships," GE Capital Mortgage shares Jim Johnson's vision asaguiding business 



ly Google 



Much ha* been MM abort the inspcetanee of Farrain Mae and Freddie Mm to the 
marketplace. Traditionally, the secondary market agencies were developed to Improve 
liquidity for lenders and mf»r»thjj» »m » » »yriii-«ift>mtwm>j ^tnimn^ r ig iiaalia fl i innlll 
daw d m*I * "ril i Wlr | Y l ml MwrlMJDha l * flfln* csTMQflMM CTBi Ml mash ! HfJdBI of the 

country. Today, the secondary market run greatly expanded ita rote and operate* u tbc key 
link between primary mortgage lending and the major capital market*. Both Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac have experienced phenomenal growth and financial success in the past 
decade. 

In today's environment, ft la essential (or Faonie Mae and Freddie Mac to focus on 
promoting and expanding affordable boineownership programs for fust-time younger 
homebuyeis, low and moderate income homebuyers, and others who are being priced out 
of the market. Such programs function best when they utilize all element* of Our evolving 
mortgage finance system. These programs include ejmanding the availability of 5% and 
10% downpayment mortgages. They alto involve using non-traditional underwriting 
criteria and bomebuyer counseling and education in order to reach a broader homebuying 

As an executive of a private corporation, I envision the primary role of Faiarie Mae 
and Freddie Mac as builders of programs and partnerships thai utilize the talent and - 
resources that both entities have developed In recent yean. I especially recognize their 
obligations to their shareholders as private, profit-making companies. Bui we must all 
acknowledge that their status a* "government-sponsored enterprises" brings significant 
benefit* to tbc companies. This means that it is appropriate for Congress to require a 
strong commitment from these companies to help achieve national bousing goals. 

When Congress determined that these companies should issue stock to the public " 
fundamentally altered the nature of the companies. It is inappropriate tosipbonoff their 
dividends as though they were a government department. 



xibyGooyle 



Further, while the affordable housing gnat program In HR 2900 Is well-rmeritioDed. 
ilikKSTOlieemtoroeto'playlothearengths'oftJittsTOOTiporationi. We ire 
submitting this MNH btcmt M believe there it ■ better, mare suitabk way to achieve 

Ibeae goals. Tim fwi d nfl grmmt nw M m n |SjanMJ ""* WtO * fcdWj Qt WW BO WtMWilil 

■geacy program, which is providing "seed" money or operUional binding for joint puMic- 
private initiatives, u under the recently-enacted HOME program. For ■ private lector 
corporation, tbii kind of program seems more like a charitable contribution or leaching for 
the "checkbook." Given the resources, skills and contact* of Fannie Mae'i Office of Low 
and Moderate Income Housing and Freddie Mac's Department of Affordable Housing 
Initiatives and their successful work with numerous lenders, community groups, and yes, 
mortgage insurance companies, It would seem that using those resources for greater 
encouragement of liomeownerslup programs which have been developed and are being 
refined and improved would he a better strategy to achieve the goals we all support than a 
"grant" program. 

On a personal level, I have championed the involvement of my fellow employees in 
"Habitat for Humanity." Together, we nave built five homes in the Raleigh area, working 
side-by-side with the people who became the owner-occupants of these homes. This kind 
of "hands-on" eipe rience, 1 believe, proves to be more significant to my colleagues who roll 
up their sleeves and work, than a collection of contributions to a bousing organization by 
GE Capita) Mortgage employees. As a group of housing prof essionals, I think we can and 
should do more than raise fundi in this area — as important as we all know those funds are. 
We can be most effective if we put ill of our skills and resources to work. 

Let me tell you about some of the programs developed by GE Capita] Mortgage 
along with our partner! in the secondary mortgage market, our friends in the community, 
*, and enlightened lenders. 



idbyGOOgle 



We began working with the agencies more than three yean ago to develop the 
Community Home Buyer's Program. In April 1989, GE Capital, the Nau'oria] Training am) 
Information Center and Faooie Mae initiated a Gve-dty demonstration program to give 
low and moderate income families greater km to mortgage* by reducing die income 
required to quality and reducing the cash required to dote. The Home Leading Program 
marked the first time that all the components necessary for success were put together in 
one package. GE Capital provides the mortgage insurance, which allows Fannie Mae to 
purchase the mortgages, and local community groups provide counseling to borrowers 
about rehabilitating homes or building homes and providing a vast array of other services. 

The expansion of the Home Lending Program was announced in September 1989 
with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. This program combines tbe more flexible qualification 
criteria of the previous program with a comprehensive buyer education component- With 
asajstancc from Housing Opportunities, Inc., a non-profit organization with 14 years' 
experience in training new home buyers, GE Capital developed a new course for 
prospective loan applicants, which is offered through the participating lenders. And we are 
sell working to make tbe program mailable to more potential home owners by making the 

courses more concise and by offering a home study guide for families that don't have access 
to classroom training in their areas. To date, over 33,000 potential homebuyers have gone 
through tbe training sessions. 

We also introduced the Community Home Improvement Mortgage with Fannie 
Mae, which offers low and moderate-income households 5% down financing in one 
mortgage loan for the purchase and improvement of a home in need of modest repairs - 
up to 30% of the home's after-repair value. 



ibyGoogle 



Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are still working 10 allow families to get into homes 
they can afford tostay in. To this end, Fannie Mae recently introduced a 3/2 Program that 
permit! buyera to meet the S% down payment by uring 3% from their own fudds and 2% 
from a gift from a family member, grunt, or unsecured loan from a non-profit group or 
public agency. GE Capital is proud to be a partner in thij program. 

Andwewori^withFreddtoM»ctoiruiouiic««bofrc«»^i«si«*rMxprc<r«rnin 
conjunction with the AFL /CIO thai will help union members and their families git into 
hornet with smaller down payments. 

In January, GE Capital and Fannie Mae $MOOMt4 the STABLE Home Mortgage, 
which combines fixed and adjustable rate mortgages in one note - one mortgage with one 
monthly payment One portion is set up at a fixed Interest rate and the remainder is at an 
adjustable rate tied to the one-year Treasury Index. The program offers lower start rates 
than fixed rate loans and more stable rates throughout the life of the loan than traditional 



GE Capital was me first to announce a risk-sharing agreement with a state housing 
finance agency. These transactions reduce the cash required at closing for low- and 
moderate-income home buyers by providing mortgage insurance with greater underwriting 
flexibility and at lower cost. This is made possible by dividiug the default risk into tbree 
tiers and allocating the risk for each tier between GE Capital and strong state agencies, GE 
Capital taking the fust tier and third tier, whicb represents the vast majority of the risk. 
Since the program was introduced in December 1988, GE Capitol has committed to insure 
ajnanst $600 million in home mortgages for saMttasl in New Hampc hire, Massachusetts, 
Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. 



xibyGooyle 



And these program* hive tangible remits by leveraging the strengths of the 
■econdvy market, lenders, community groups and mortgage Insurers. And, at least based 
on GE Capital's enperience, we can do it profitably. So these programs can perpetuate 
themselves. They won't have to stop if there are no extra funds for a dividend or a give- 



Let me assure you that each of these products may not be as "profitable* as other 
activities of these companies, and may not meet someone's objective yardstick of "average 
profitability." At the same time, we believe and have shown that financially sound 
investments can and arc being made in these areas every day. And prudent underwriting 
can be done even when lenders accept "non-traditional" measures of creditworthiness. In 
fact, we have found in general that buyers who purchase reasonably-priced homes are good 
business risks who will make necessary Snanclal sacrifices to own and remain in their 
homes. We have also seen the value of professional buyer education and training 



I believe that there is a simple "bottom line" which applies to these important 
enterprises. Their status as "government-sponsored enterprise" bring tremendous benefits 
to Fatmie Mae and Freddie Mac, as you are well aware. It is most appropriate to seek a 
strong commitment in return from these entities to important 'public missions." Among 
those missions - and the one I regard as most important - it active promotion and 

list low and moderate income homebuyers, first- 



le buyers, and all those who seek to purchase modest, reasonably-priced homes with low 



It is essentia] that Congress clarify that the agencies' mission is to develop and 
promote homeownership affordability for first-time and lower-income buyers, with its focus 
on the availability of low-downpayment loans on an equitable basis as to access and pricing 
of such loans. 



,db»Goog!c 



Ai I tuve csiphuized, the bat wey lo make that happen It to eacouraf* 
development of program - and paraenbJpi - which involve die broaden poMlbU 

eknwt* of tbe nwrtgage finance lyWeni. We « GE Capital Mortgage wind ready to 
continue to work to aciueve our common goala. 1 would re^ectfulry request tb*t thil 
Hatemenl be made ■ pert of the bearing record. 



^iizad byGoogle 



PREPARED STATEMENT OF NAHCY SPADY, FIRST VICE PRESIDENT, EQUITY RESEARCH 
DEPARTMENT, LEHMAN BROTHERS 
My DM* i* Jlancy Spady and I an a First Tic* President of Lehaan Brothers in 
the equity research department analyzing the CSEi and the thrift industry tor 
investors. I mild like in address ay coaBenta to aavaral provisions of Hi 
2000 regarding regulation of ihe Federal National Mortgage Association and the 
Federal Hone Loan Mortgage Corporation, 

I strongly agree with the purpose of this legislation to ensure that Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac do not at ION future dale become a liability of the 

past two year* that concluded that these companies are sel 1 -run and pose no 
near-tent risk to taxpayers. The proposed legislation appropriately provides 
for updated capita) rules that recognize the business risks Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac take and create* a nee regulator with clear responaibility to 
■sailor the condition of tie caapanlee and intervene if their financial health 
deteriorate*. 

However, the proposed legislation goes tat beyond the original goal* of 
setting aininin standard* for an equity cushion to protect agalns difficult 

iees and noniloring Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to ensure that problems do not 
arise unnoticed in the future. In nry viae, KB 2900 threaten! to nterfere 
with two of the great success stories of the aarriage of public policy with 
private enterprise. My concerns fall into two general categories. First, 
even if the two coapanies aeet or exceed all the capital rules and stress 
taata set forth, the legislation appears to subject then to potentially 
significant interference in day-to-day operating decisions. Second, the 
proposed legislation would thrust upon the conpa 
low-locoa* housing directly, despite their alreei 

that use their unique talents in bringing private capitel and creative 
financing solutions to bear on this difficult problee. 

Fannie Mae and Fraddia Mao serve an important general public policy rola by 
asking the market for none mortgage funds "ore officiant, which both reduce* 
the cost of these funds to hoawowners and ensures availability of funds, even 
during difficult economic times. Their Isvect In both of these area* ha* been 
wail documented io recent studies. However, provisions in the proposed 
legislation appear Io open the possibility of disrupting this vast 
marketplace. Sana of these provisions could Malt the flexibility that baa 
aada Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac so successful both Id Beating public policy 



Ihile the proposed capital standards adequately address the credit and 
interest rata risk* Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac face, io ay view the broad 
discretion left to the Director of the new regulatory office undo mines the 
rule* set out and Bay have unintended affect* on Ihe aortgage finance market 
because of the uncertainty creates for managements of the t-o companies 
This seeas especially so in the area of creating an addit ional capita cushion 
for management and operations riak, in which the proposed legislation sets a 
standard and then allows the Director to aeke it higher if be or she chooses. 
The Director's ability to reclassify a GSE at a lower enforcement level than 
it* capital would indicate seeas likely to add to this uncertainty. 



(byGOOgle 



Homing Subccanittee 

Consideration of HI 1900 

Nancy C Spady 

The rsiult 1( lint these discretionary pavers My affect pricing decisions and 
choices about capital structure by the (wo companies because of the 
uncertainty they create. Due to Che pervasive presence of Fannie Nee and 
Freddie Mac in the mortgage market, these decisions could u iraately have an 
nintended negative impact an the cost of mortgage financing across th* 

' ' nk or thr ft capital rules which employ 
the proposed capita) standards for Fannie 
Mac and Freddie Mac directly assess the r abi ty to withstand shocks, whether 
fro. credl or interest rate risk try using stress teste This along with 
the regulator's ability to Closely monitor thai because there are only two 
companies in the Industry, should alio* the standard to capture their 
condition with greater accuracy Thia should Halt the need for additional 
safety measures to more oddest amounts and should Halt the need for 
discretion by the Director. 

One of the greatest reaaons for the success of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. I 
believe, has been their stockholder -owned structure, including the incentives 
available in a private corporation. Congress sat out a framework to direct 
the enterfnse to help fund moderate-priced housing in the U.S. and has 
generally allowed the conpnnies to function as the market dictated. bellave 
some of the powers granted to regulators under the proposed legislation would 
Interfere with this model. For exsapla. new programs appear to need the 
approval of several government official). This could Halt Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac's responsiveness to now developments in both the types of 
mortgages offered in the primary market and the securities desired la that 
secondary market. That limitation could stifle innovation that has tanarally 
helped reduce the coat of mortgage financing in the last decade. 

The limits on executive compensation also sees an impediment to the Ions-ton 
functioning of these companies. Fannie Hue and Freddie Mac need to attract 

the most competent, quel if lad people passible to deal with the coaplax 
operation; and financial decisions that accompany their crucial role at the 
csmtar of the mortgage market . These Individuals unit be compensated at 

levels competitive with their alternative opportunities, whether that is on 
■all Street . in the housing Industry or elsewhere. The flexibility to reward 
people for performance is crl leal to attracting the talent necessary to run 

these companies, through good and bad times. The ability to use incentive 

Interests with lbs long-tere goals of the company, including Its aafa and 
sound operation, since shareholders must surfer first if Fannie Mae of Freddie 
Mac runs aground financially. Under the highly successful nodal set up by 
Congress, poor decisions in choosing or compensating management of one of the 
two companies can be judged by the board of directors and, ultimately, by the 
stock market, since both fires are subject to intense scrutiny and are closely 
coopered with one another. In addition, the board of directors of each 
company, in keeping with it* public charter, includes President 
■hose role includes just such oversight. Thus, the restrictions on 
compensation aeea unnecessary and potentially harmful. 

Finally, the provision to require Fannie Mae and Freddie Mae to allocate a 
portion of their earnines to aubiidiie affordable bousing directly mom t 
deviate froa their special telaats and I believe the enforcement provision 



*j by Google 



Homing Subconalltee 

Consideration of Ml 2900 

Nancy C Spady 

•tliclMd to this la*- like Huurt could prove disruptive to the nurtgage 
earkat. The Iwo coapaniaa ha*a shown Ibaaaelvea especially skilled at 
employing crestive cunblMtlon* of private and public •actor resources to 
increase the availability of affordable housing in the U.S. Both cnapanlss 
hare also nada vaat voluntary coanltnenls to fund affordable bowing apart 
froD any requiroaent they aval fulfill . The $10 billion Finale Mae program 
•nd the S3 billion Freddie Mac progrea already n*ke the two companies a 
primary source of funding for tfalt public policy goal. However, the prograai 
they hate developed build on their unique talenla, rather than using their 
resources aaraly aa a pool of fund* to lap with a epaclal tax-like provision 
■uch at the one proposed. Given Ihe typical funding structure of real estate 
protects, If Fannie Mae and Freddie Use were to contributo MO ■lllion of 
funds for affordable housing (the approximate Mount thai would be required 
for llMia), II would support perhaps MOO Billion of new development, far less 
than the voluntary commitments May have already Bade. 

In addition,, in order to enforce the provision that the coapaniaa not raise 
prices to pay for this levy, the coapaniaa' pricing decisions, which mat 
change with constantly changing market conditions, would be subfecl to 
scrutiny and poealbly altoralion by regulators. Even the possibility of this 
event could disrupt the functioning of the entire mortgage narket. aa 
participant! baoona unsure of whether any price is final until it is examined 
by the regulator, again, this could disrupt the successful nodal In which 
Congress created a framework and a eat of goals end than allowed the narknt to 
function anootbly. I believe uaing the companies ' resources to fund this 
public policy goal will conflict with their larger alsslon that has reduced 

funding coat* for millions of 1 nil in s and nada nortgaga noney aval labia at 

•11 tine* even In the no* t aoononlcally distressed region* of the country. 

a (his proposed legislation. Assuming 



idbyGOOgle 



July 17, 1991 



This teetimony is offered on behalf of the New York City 
Housing Partnership, on* of the nation's largest nonprofit 
producers of affordable housing. 

Since 1983, the Housing Partnership has brought sore than $1 
billion in private financing for new housing to the City's 
lew income communities , from Coney Island to the South 
Bronx, Central Harlem to Bedford stuyveaant, the North Shore 
of Staten Island to Southeastern Queens. The Partnership has 
also assisted community-based initiative a working to 
rehabilitate mu It i family housing, including LISC and 
Enterprise syndication of the federal Low Income Housing Tax 
Credit to corporate investors. He have established the 
City's first successful program to bring minority-owned 
contracting firms, matched up with minority-led nonprofit 
community groups, into the mainstream of the Homebuilding 
industry. 

As one of the nation's early Housing Partnerships, we have 
helped rannia Haa pioneer their Low and Moderate Income 
programs. Some $300 million in permanent financing for 
Partnership first- time bomebuyere -- with family incomes 
averaging about ninety percent of the current area median — 
haa come through rannia Mae. To make this prograM work, 
Fannie' a traditional underwriting and mortgage credit 
standards were adjusted to reflect the particular 
characteristics of the urban homeownorship market. For 
example, Fannie has allowed enough credit for the rental 
income on two and three family, owner-occupied homes, so as 
to help households with limited resources qualify for 



xibyOooyle 



mortgages'. Appraisal practice* have recognized the strength 
of our housing market, allowing most of our homes to b* sold 
with lew downpayments and without tha additional coat of 
mortgage insurance. Ha are currant ly working with Fannie on 
two »u It i family projacta to ha financed on a la an a -purchase 
■odal designed to further reduce unaffordabls cash 
requirements for lowar income households. 

Fannie Mae is helping tha Housing Partnership mount 
initiatives aimed at enhancing affordability and leveraging 
limited government housing subsidies with favorably priced 
investments by local banks, pension funds and international 
banking institutions. Ha recently established the GRAND 
program (Global Reinvestment in Affordable Neighborhood 
Development) , through which foreign and international 
wholesale banks are investing in Partnership housing at 
concess ionary rates . Through Fannia Mae mortgage backed 
securities, we have satisfied foreign banks and pension 
funds that they can invest in affordable housing and still 
be fully guaranteed against loss. Private placement of these 
securities is a mechanism for securing better terms and 
pricing than the conventional secondary market. 

What our experience in New York City illustrates is that tha 
rhetoric of public-private partnerships, particularly as it 
relates to federal-local joint ventures in affordable 
housing, is finally achieving some reality, as the secondary 
market institutions apply their enormous financial and 
professional resources to neighborhood housing needs. The 
purpose of my testimony is to urge congress to use the 
opportunity of the GSE legislation to reinforce and support 
the emerging voluntary partnership between Fannie Has, 
Freddie Mac and the nonprofit and community-based sectors of 
the nation's housing industry. 

As traditional sources of public and private funding for 
housing have dried up, Fannie Hae, in particular, has become 
the financial lifeline for affordable housing. Some 
provisions of the draft GSE bill under consideration by this 
subcommittee could interrupt and unnecessarily limit the 
volume and scope of financing opportunities available to low 
and moderate income housing through the secondary market. 
Specifically, the draft bill allows for tightening of 
capital requirements and increased regulator intervention, 
while effectively limiting the resources committed to low 
and moderate income housing to an annual setaside. The 
result of this legislation could be to unnecessarily 
constrain Fannie and Freddie in their role as the primary 



xibyOooyle 



Of capital and credit for affordable housing. 

What we do need « particularly in the face of pressures to 
reduce the risk and liait contingent liabilities associated 
with GSE's — is a Congressional Mandate that authorizes 
Fannie and rreddis to create an alternative processing and 
underwriting track for affordable housing ~ one that 
removes or raducaa conventional restrictions on investment 
and sscuritizing activity, particularly for publically 
aasistad aulti family housing. 

There is no reason why GSE legislation or discussion should 
airror the adversarial history associated with pirrea and 
the Community Reinvestment Act. Fannie Has has been a 
cooperative and even enthusiastic partner in structuring 
financial packages with nonprofits and local governments 
for hundreds of low and moderate income housing initiatives. 
Over the past ten years, this relationship has been 
substantially more productive and efficien t t han most groups 
have enjoyed with banking institutions or HDD. 

While the Affordable Rousing Fund created under FXRREA has 
been a welcome source Of support for many projects, this 
level of subsidy is token in comparison to the housing 
capital and subsidy nseds of the nation. In Haw York, it 
takes a grant of $75,000 to $125,000 to finance a single new 
or substantially rehabilitated unit of housing for a low 
income family. If Hew York were to get 10 per cent of the 
entire national allocation of Fannie Hae's proposed dividend 
sstaside for 1991, this would support construction of about 
30 units of low income housing. Hs are obviously concerned 
that the limited fund proposed for affordable housing in the 
gse legislation will redirect attention away from a larger 
and mora comprehensive role for Fannie and Freddie in 
affordable housing finance. This could be like trading in 
access to a credit line at JP Morgan for a piggy bank. 

Right now there are opportunities for the secondary market 
institutions to play an expanded role — especially in 
nultifaaily housing ~ that will only happen with a 
Congressional nudge. Fannie and Freddie should be encouraged 
to establish a specially capitalized channel that applies 
more flexible standards to underwriting unconventional loans 
(which - - basically encompasses all our public-private, 
affordable and low income housing) , sscuritizing or funding 
bridge loans, warehousing lines, letters of credit and 
construction financing. 



xibyOooyle 



There are also government subsidies that are underutilised 
because of constraints or obstacles in the flow of private 
and public funding that the secondary wariest can help to 
unblock. One example of an underutilized resource is the 
so-called low floater, tax exempt bond financing 
arrangement . Currently, multi family mortgages financed 
through this Mechanism are paying a market interest rats of 
3%, largely due to the fact that there is a real shortage of 
tax exempt investment opportunities for mutual funds and 
others . It would cost about $2.5 mil 1 ion a year to match 
this level of subsidy for 500 units of low income housing. 
Unfortunately, this financing is difficult to accsss because 
the only sources of credit enhancement have been a few large 
Japanese Banks. The national secondary market is only 
beginning to apply its skills and crsdit standing to support 
bond issues and securitization of new pools of capital that 
can be priced sore affordably in the marketplace — without - 
additional subsidy. 

To achieve a meaningful volume of affordable housing 
activity, craative and dynamic application of all the 
resources of the secondary market institutions — in 
partnership with HUD, local government, and nonprofits — is 
essential. Underutilised FHA insurance authorizations and 
inefficient application of federal subsidy programs should 
be linked with and enhanced by the financial and 
professional resources of the secondary market institutions. 
This is the direction that Congress must encourage if we sre 
to move federal leadership in low and moderate income 
housing beyond the anecdotal and into a generic 
restructuring of our system of rssidsntial finance that 
encompassss low and moderate income housing in the mainline 
business of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

o 



«-o« («ej 



,db»GoogIc 



,db»GoogIc 



n» Google 



Ill III 



Dij,sz,db»GoogIc 



ISBN 0-16-036997-5 



»™80 



Dij,sz,db»GoogIc 




3ijBz,db»Google 



,db»GoogIc 















Y4-B 22/1:102-60 C- 1 

Govetrwnent-sponsored H 

IHlllllllllUll 

3 6105 045 157 406 




















DATE DUE 






































































































. 




STANFORD UNIVE 
STANFORD, CALIFC 


RSITY LIBRARIES 

__ 


f* — 


n „d*G( 


>oslc 



