Resource  Center  for  Accreditation  and  Performance  Measures 


Comparison  of 
Quality  Improvement 
Standards  and  Processes 

For  Select  Public  and  Private 
Entities  Which  Monitor  Performance 
of  Managed  Care  Plans 


Medicare 
Medicaid 
Bureau  o 


re 

id  f— m 
of  Primary  H 


rimary  Health  Cart 


Minnesota 
Ohio 

Pennsylvania 

JCAHO 
NCQA 
URAC 

NAIC 


BlueCross  BlueShield 
lf/^M  Association 

An  Association  of  Independent 
Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Plans 


<"■  1997  Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 
676  North  St.  Clair  Street 
Chicago.  Illinois  60611 

512.440.6416  telephone 
"12.440.6520  fax 


h  lip. //www. bluecares.com 


r  ' 

Resource  Center  for  Accreditation  and  Performance  Measures 


1'  AWJAfi  S 


Comparison  of  ^ulP 
Quality  Improvement  Standards  / 
and  Processes  for 
Select  Public  and  Private  Entities 
which  Monitor  Performance  of 
Managed  Care  Plans 


January  1997 


BlueCross  BlueShield 
Association 


An  Association  of  Independent 
Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Plans 


Foreword 


The  Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 
(BCBSA)  in  cooperation  with  the  Health  Care 
Financing  Administration  (HCFA)  is  pleased  to 
provide  you  a  revised  edition  of  A  Comparison  of 
Quality  Improvement  Standards  and  Processes  for 
Select  Public  and  Private  Entities  which  Monitor 
Performance  of  Managed  Care  Plans. 

The  original  document,  published  in  April, 
1995  under  HCFA  contract  by  the  National  Academy 
for  State  Health  Policy,  provided  an  overview  of 
managed  care  quality  oversight  requirements  of  the 
federal  government,  selected  States,  and  national 
accrediting  bodies.  This  revised  edition  includes 
the  following  changes: 

•  Adds  the  model  State  managed  care  acts  recently 
adopted  by  the  National  Association  of  Insurance 
Commissioners. 

•  Adds  network  accreditation  requirements  of  the 
Utilization  Review  Accreditation  Commission 
(URAC). 

•  Provides  updates  to  managed  care  organization 
accreditation  standards  of  the  National  Commit- 
tee for  Quality  Assurance  (NCQA)  and  the  Joint 
Commission  on  Accreditation  of  Healthcare 
Organizations  (JCAHO). 

•  Updates  regulatory  requirements  in  Minnesota, 
Ohio,  and  Pennsylvania. 


This  document  is  the  second  in  a  series  of 
new  BCBSA  resources  designed  to  help  Plans  with 
managed  care  accreditation  and  regulatory  issues. 
Other  resources  currently  under  development 
include  comparisons  of  the  1997  JCAHO,  NCQA, 
and  URAC  accreditation  requirements  and  a  further 
comparison  between  these  programs  and  the 
HCFA  requirements  for  Medicare  and  Federally 
Qualified  HMOs. 

The  Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 
represents  62  independent,  locally  owned  Blue 
Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Plans  that  offer  managed  care 
programs  in  every  region  of  the  country,  these  Plans 
provide  health  care  services  and  Financing  to  nearly 
66  million  people,  53%  of  whom  are  managed  care 
customers. 

We  hope  that  this  compendium  will  be  helpful 
to  managed  care  organizations  in  achieving  compli- 
ance with  quality  standards  and  regulations  in  the 
rapidly  changing  health  care  environment. 


Sincerely, 


Susan  Gleeson 

Senior  Vice  President 

Health  Management  Systems 

Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


Errata  for 


Comparison  of  Quality  Improvement 
Standards  and  Processes 

Please  note  the  following  changes  in  Section  II. M.  -  Medicare  Complaint  Resolution, 
pp.  114  and  115: 

Regulation  -  the  Reconsideration  section  on  page  1 14  should  read  as  follows: 

Any  party  dissatisfied  with  the  initial  determination  may  request  a  reconsideration  in 
writing  [42  CFR  417.614]. 

Generally,  the  plan  that  made  the  initial  determination  also  reconsiders  it,  except  that  the 
reconsideration  must  be  made  by  a  person  or  persons  who  were  not  involved  in  making 
the  initial  determination.  If  the  HMO/CMP  reconfirms  its  partial  or  complete  adverse 
determination,  the  HMO/CMP  must  prepare  a  written  explanation  and  send  the  entire  case 
to  HCFA  (or  its  contractor)  [42  CFR  417.620]. 

The  HMO/CMP 's  reconsideration  decision  and  submission  to  HCFA,  if  necessary,  must 
be  made  within  60  days  from  the  date  of  the  request  for  reconsideration.  Failure  to  make 
the  reconsideration  determination  within  60  days  constitutes  an  adverse  decision,  and  the 
health  plan  must  submit  the  file  to  HCFA's  contractor  [42  CFR  417.620], 

HCFA  will  make  the  final  reconsideration  determination.  The  reconsideration 
determinations,  at  each  step,  must  be  given  to  the  requesting  party  stating  the  reasons  for 
the  reconsidered  determination  [42  CFR  417.620], 

Policy  -  an  additional  paragraph  should  be  inserted  at  the  beginning  of  the  Policy  section 
on  page  1 1 5  as  follows: 

The  regulatory  appeals  procedures  are  generally  defined  and  expanded  upon  related  to  the 
following  areas: 

•  written  explanation  of  appeals  procedures  to  enrollees; 

•  initial  determination:  time  limits  for  issuing  notices  for  "clean"  claims,  including 
definition  of  clean  claim;  required  notices,  processing  guidelines  for  those  with 
incomplete  documentation;  sample  language  for  notice; 

•  reconsideration  rights:  representation  by  others; 

•  reconsideration  determination:  filing,  including  time  limits,  extensions  etc.,  opportunity 
to  submit  evidence;  processing  determination  when  decision  in  favor  of  member,  and 
when  partially  or  fully  adverse  to  member. 

•  preparation  of  file  sent  to  HCFA  contractor,  chronology  and  documents  needed,  and 

•  notice  and  effect  of  reconsideration  determination  [Health  Maintenance 
Organization/Competitive  Plan  Manual,  Transmittal  No.  6,  March  1991,  2401-2405]. 


Acknowledgments 


The  work  presented  in  this  document  represents 
the  efforts  of  many  individuals.  The  BCBSA  would 
like  to  thank  the  following  individuals  who  gave 
of  their  time  in  updating  their  portions  of  the 
document.  Their  quick  response  to  requests  for 
additional  information  was  particularly  appreciated 
and  contributed  to  a  current  publication. 

Health  Care  Financing  Administration  (HCFA) 
-  Medicare,  Federal  Qualification,  Medicaid 

Cindy  Baldwin 
Connie  Forster 
Roy  A.  Harris 
Kathleen  Heaven 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 
Beth  Ann  Tutunjian 
Jay  R.  Anderson 

National  Association  of  Insurance 
Commissioners  (NAIC) 
Elizabeth  Hadley 

Joint  Commission  for  the  Accreditation  of 
Healthcare  Organizations  (JCAHO) 

Anne  Flanagan 

Gina  Val  Zimmermann 

National  Committee  for  Quality  Assurance 
(NCQA) 

Suzanne  E.  Atkinson 
Linda  R.  Shelton 

Utilization  Review  Accreditation 
Commission  (URAC)  ,  tJ*0J  tihfiPfr^LL 

Garry  Carneal 
Steven  Hendrickson 


State  of  Minnesota 

Department  of  Health 
David  Giese 
Kathleen  Halsey 
Connie  Ventrelli 

Department  of  Human  Services 
Mary  Kennedy 
Ray  Fellows 
Debra  Stenseth 

State  of  Ohio 

Department  of  Health 
Roy  Croy 
Thomas  Dole 

Department  of  Human  Services 
Michael  Wilson 

State  of  Pennsylvania 

Department  of  Health 
Frank  Clark 
David  Henry 

Department  of  Public  Welfare 
Henry  Mowery 
Sally  Kozak 

A  special  thanks  is  extended  to  Connie  Forster, 
HCFA  and  Maureen  Booth,  National  Academy  for 
State  Health  Policy  for  their  encouragement  and 
support.  The  work  conducted  by  the  National 
Academy  for  State  Health  Policy  formed  the 
basis  of  this  document  which  we  were  able  to 
update  with  the  help  from  the  aforementioned 
organizations. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


Table  of  Contents 


Introduction   2 

Selection  of  Review  Entities   2 

Elements  Reviewed  and  Relevant  Definitions   2 

Limitation  of  the  Review   4 

Organization  and  Process 

LA.    Type  of  Organization/ Background/Purpose   5 

I.B.    Frequency  of  Review/ Period  of  Effectiveness   9 

I.C.    Review  Team  Requirements   12 

I.D.   Review  Process/Components  of  Review   14 

I.E.    Status  Conferred   19 

I.F.    Release  of  Information   22 

I.  G.   Fees   25 

Operations 

II.  A.  Enrollment  Composition   27 

I  I.B.  Incentive  Arrangements   29 

I  I.C.  Network  Adequacy   32 

I  I.D.  Access/Timeliness  of  Service   37 

ILE.  Preventive  Health   45 

I  I.F.  Medical  Records   49 

II. G.  Continuity  of  Care   54 

II.H.  Quality  Assurance  Program   59 

1.  Program  Description/Activities   59 

2.  Written  Plan   66 

3.  Structure   69 

4.  Resources,  People  and  Materials   72 

5.  Performance  Measurement   74 

6.  Systematic  Data  Collection   77 

7.  Peer  Review/Practitioner  Participation   81 

8.  Continuous  Improvement  Plan/Process   85 

9.  Effectiveness  Assessment   89 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


ILL   External  Review   92 

II. J.  Credentialing/Recredentialing   95 

1.  Frequency   95 

2.  Verification   97 

ILK.  Utilization  Management/Underutilization   105 

ILL.  OA  Integration  into  Operations   Ill 

II.M.  Complaint  Resolution   114 

II.N.  Rights  and  Responsibilities -Plan   122 

II.O.  Rights  and  Responsibilities -Members   130 

II.P.  Member  Satisfaction   135 

II.Q.  Accountability   139 

II.R.  Delegation   143 

U.S.  Provider  Contracts   146 

II.T.  Information  Systems  Adequacy   149 

ILL.  Confidentiality   152 

II.V.  Cultural  Sensitivity   157 

II. W.  Consumer  Participation   160 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


Introduction 


Selection  of  Review  Entities 

In  addition  to  the  ten  programs/entities  that 
contributed  to  the  original  publication,  the  1996 
requirements  of  the  Utilization  Review  Accredita- 
tion Commission  (URAC)  Network  Accreditation 
program  were  added  to  this  edition.  The  program 
entities  are: 

•  Medicare  risk  contracting,  Health  Care  Financing 
Ad  ministration 

•  Federal  Qualification,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration 

•  Federal  Medicaid  program,  Health  Care  Financ- 
ing Administration 

•  Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care,  Public  Health 

Service 

•  National  Association  of  Insurance  Commissioners 

•  Joint  Commission  on  Accreditation  of  Healthcare 
Organizations  (Network  accreditation  program) 

•  National  Committee  for  Quality  Assurance 

•  Utilization  Review  Accreditation  Commission 
(Network  accreditation  program) 

•  Minnesota  (Departments  of  Health  and  Human 

Services) 

•  Ohio  (Departments  of  Health  and  Human 

Services) 

•  Pennsylvania  (Departments  of  Health  and 
Public  Welfare) 

Elements  Reviewed  and  Relevant 
Definitions 

In  the  original  edition  of  this  document,  the 
elements  of  quality  improvement  were  generally 
defined  according  to  HCFA  terminology.  For  the 
sake  of  consistency,  the  same  terminology  and 
format  are  maintained  in  this  publication. 


Table  1  below  lists  the  elements  reviewed  and 
relevant  working  definitions. 

Table  I.  Quality  Improvement  Elements 

I.     Organization  and  Process 

I. A.  Type  of  organization/background/purpose:  the 
nature  of  the  review  organization,  its  focus  and 
mission,  and  authority  with  respect  to  quality 
monitoring  for  managed  care. 

I.B.  Frequency  of  review /period  of  effectiveness: 
how  often  the  review  organization  conducts 
its  quality  reviews. 

I.C.  Review  team  requirements:  who  conducts 
quality  reviews,  their  qualifications  and  the 
composition  of  teams. 

I.D.  Review  process/components  of  review:  the 

scope  and  content  of  the  review  conducted  by 
the  organization  with  respect  to  the  quality 
improvement  aspect  of  the  review. 

I.E.  Status  conferred:  the  status  granted  to  the 
managed  care  plan  as  a  result  of  the  review 
agency's  evaluation. 

I.F   Release  of  information:  the  extent  to  which 
information  obtained  by  the  review  organiza- 
tion in  the  course  of  its  reviews  is  available  to 
the  public. 

I.  C.  Fee:  the  cost  to  the  plan  of  seeking  review  by 

the  specified  entity. 

II.  Operations 

I  LA.  Enrollment  composition:  restrictions  or  require- 
ments placed  on  the  size  or  distribution  of  the 
plan's  enrollment. 

I  I.B.  Incentive  arrangements:  controls  on  the  types 
of  financial  incentives  a  plan  may  offer  to 
providers  to  control  utilization  and/or  review 
requirements  to  monitor  the  impact  of  such 
arrangements. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


1 


Introduction  (continued) 


II. C.  Network  adequacy:  the  number,  type,  and  quali- 
fications of  institutional  providers  and  practi- 
tioners participating  in  the  plan's  network. 

II.D.  Access/timeliness  of  service:  requirements 
pertaining  to  the  distribution  of  institutional 
providers  and  practitioners  participating  in 
the  plan's  network,  their  proximity  to  enrollees, 
and  availability  to  meet  enrollee  needs  within 
a  timely  manner. 

II.E.  Preventive  health:  services,  activities,  and 
incentives  provided  by  the  plan  to  promote 
and  monitor  the  use  of  preventive  health 
care  services. 

II.F.  Medical  records:  specifications  for  the  design, 
maintenance,  retrieval  and  review  of  medical 
records  within  the  plan's  network. 

II.G.  Continuity  of  care:  protections  to  assure  that 
an  enrollee's  care  is  provided  by  the  same 
set  of  clinicians  when  possible  or  is  properly 
coordinated  among  providers  in  the  same 
or  different  levels  of  care,  including  the 
availability  of  information  to  promote  such 
coordination  and  follow-up. 

II.H.  Quality  assurance  program 

1.  Program  description:  specific  requirements 
of  the  quality  assurance  program,  its  scope 
and  activities,  and  the  use  of  indicators, 
practice  guidelines,  and  special  studies. 

2.  Written  plan:  specifications  that  require 
a  plan  to  describe  its  quality  assurance 
program,  workplans,  activities,  findings 
or  follow-up  actions  in  writing. 

3.  Structure:  requirements  for  organizing 
and  staffing  the  quality  assurance  program, 
including  the  specification  of  committees 
and  reporting  relationships. 

4.  Resources,  people  and  materials:  criteria 
for  determining  the  adequacy  of  plan  sup- 
port for  the  quality  assurance  program  and 
activities. 


5.  Performance  measurement:  the  use  of 
standardized  indicators  for  evaluating 
the  performance  of  a  managed  care  plan 
(e.g.,  Health  Plan  Employer  Data  and 
Information  Set). 

6.  Systematic  data  collection:  requirements 
for  the  collection  of  data,  analysis  of  that 
data  and  dissemination  of  findings. 

7.  Peer  review/practitioner  participation: 
expectations  for  involving  clinicians  and 
other  practitioners  within  network  in 
quality  assurance  activities,  including 
participation  on  committees,  analysis  of 
data,  dissemination  of  quality  assurance 
findings,  and  feedback  on  opportunities 
for  improvement. 

8.  Effectiveness  assessment:  actions  to  be  taken 
to  assess  the  overall  effectiveness 

of  the  quality  assurance  program. 

ILL  External  review:  requirements  for  an  indepen- 
dent assessment  of  the  quality  of  care  other 
than  that  which  is  conducted  by  the  review 
organization  itself. 

I  I.J.  Practitioner  credentialing/recredentialing 

L.  frequency:  after  initial  credentialing, 
how  often  a  practitioner  is  subject  to 
the  recredentialing  process. 

2.   I  erification:  requirements  for  qualifying 
a  clinician  to  participate  in  the  plan's 
provider  network,  including  eligibility 
criteria  and  the  process  for  verifying 
compliance  with  those  criteria. 

ILK.  Utilization  management:  standards  for  assess- 
ing and  promoting  the  appropriateness  of  care 
and  proper  use  of  medical  care  resources  by 
enrollees  and  plan  clinicians. 

ILL.  QI  integration  into  operations:  mechanisms 
for  assuring  that  the  activities  and  findings  of 
the  QI  program  are  incorporated  where  appro- 
priate into  other  functions  within  the  plan, 
including  management,  enrollment,  provider 
relations,  management  information  systems, 
administrative  policies,  and  contracts. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


3 


Introduction  ( continued) 


II. M. Complaint  resolution:  methods  for  receiving, 
analyzing,  resolving  and  tracking  enrollee 
complains  and  grievances  with  respect  to  the 
availability,  accessibility  and  quality  of  care, 
benefits,  coverage,  payment,  denials  and  other 
issues  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  plan. 

I  I.N.  Rights  and  responsibilities  -  plan:  obligations 
of  the  plan  to  notify  enrollees  regarding  cov- 
ered services,  access  to  those  services,  use  of 
out-of-plan  providers,  instructions  for  receiving 
emergency  and  urgent  care  services,  and  other 
information  concerning  an  enrollee's  ability 
to  make  informed  choices  regarding  his  or 
her  medical  care. 

II.O.  Rights  and  responsibilities  -  members:  rights 
and  obligations  of  the  enrollee  with  respect  to 
bis  or  her  medical  care,  including  choice  of 
provider,  advance  directives,  treatment  options, 
privacy  and  confidentiality  of  treatment. 

1 1. P.  Member  satisfaction:  mechanisms  for  soliciting, 
analyzing,  reporting  and  tracking  an  enrollee's 
level  of  satisfaction  with  the  availability, 
accessibility  and  quality  of  medical  c  are. 

II. Q.  Accountability:  the  oversight  responsibility 
of  I  lie  governing  body,  committee  and/or  indi- 
viduals with  respect  to  quality  improvement 
activities  within  the  plan. 

II.R.  Delegation:  restrictions  placed  on  a  plan 

to  grant  authority  to  another  entity  to  perform 
quality  improvement  functions  on  its  behalf. 

U.S.  Provider  contracts:  specifications  placed 
on  providers  with  whom  the  plan  contracts 
regarding  their  roles  and  responsibilities  for 
participation  in  quality  improvement  activities. 

II.T.  Information  systems  adequacy:  criteria  for 

assessing  the  effectiveness  of  a  plan's  informa- 
tion system  in  supporting  the  data  collection, 
analysis  and  dissemination  activities  of  the 
quality  improvement  program. 

II.U.  Confidentiality:  protections  placed  on  the 
collection,  use,  retrieval  and  storage  of  data. 


1I.V.  Cultural  sensitivity:  mechanisms  for  enhancing 
the  understanding  of  a  plan  and  its  practition- 
ers of  differences  in  enrollee  characteristics 
which  may  impact  their  access  to  care,  provi- 
sion of  care  and  outcome  of  care. 

II. W.  Consumer  participation:  measures  for  assess- 
ing the  degree  to  which  a  plan  provides  oppor- 
tunities for  consumers  to  actively  participate 
in  the  plan's  decision  making  processes,  espe- 
cially those  relating  to  the  quality  improvement 
program  other  than  the  grievance  process. 

Limitations  of  the  Review 

The  information  contained  in  this  document  was 
self-reported  by  each  participating  entity.  Accord- 
ingly, the  Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 
claims  no  responsibility  for  its  accuracy. 

The  reader  is  further  cautioned  to  consider  the 
following  limitations  when  using  this  document. 

•  The  text  presents  abstractions  only  of  regulations, 
policies,  procedures  and  standards.  The  abstrac- 
tions are  not  necessarily  direct  or  full  quotations 
of  the  original  materials  and  should  not  be 
construed  as  such. 

•  The  list  of  standards  included  is  not  exhaustive 
but  identifies  major  components  considered 
by  the  review  entity  under  any  given  element. 

•  The  placement  of  regulations  and  standards 
under  each  element  was  a  judgment  of  the 
original  publisher  and  may  not  necessarily 
correspond  to  the  review  entity's  own  clas- 
sification system. 

•  The  information  included  pertains  only  to  the 
quality  improvement  aspects  of  a  review  process 
and  is  by  no  means  a  definitive  statement  of 

a  review  entity's  total  monitoring  function. 


Blue  Cniss  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


I 


Organization  and  Process 

LA.  Type  of  Organization/Background/ 
Purpose 


Medicare 

These  standards  identify  the  quality  assurance 
requirements  an  organization  must  meet  to  enter 
into  a  Medicare  contract  with  HCFA,  under  Section 
1876(b)  of  the  Social  Security  Act,  as  a  federally 
qualified  Health  Maintenance  Organization  (HMO) 
or  a  Competitive  Medical  Plan  (CMP).  At  a  mini- 
mum, contracting  HMOs/CMPs  must  provide  the 
full  range  of  Part  A  and  Part  B  services  to  entitled 
beneficiaries  who  are  enrolled  with  the  HMO  or 
CMP.  In  addition  to  items  referenced  in  this  docu- 
ment, requirements  are  also  in  place  for  administra- 
tion and  management,  fiscal  soundness,  marketing, 
enrollment,  claims  processing  and  HCFA  payments 
to  risk  and  cost-based  contractors. 

Federal  Qualification 

The  Federal  government  promulgates  statutes, 
regulations,  and  policy  for  Federal  Qualification 
designation  of  managed  care  organizations.  Federal 
requirements  cover  legal/state  licensure  and  fiscal 
soundness  issues,  as  well  as  all  aspects  of  opera- 
tions of  managed  care  organizations.  Federal 
qualification  is  strictly  voluntary  and  frequently  is 
requested  due  to  the  competitive  nature  of  the  plan's 
environment,  including  requests  by  employers. 

Medicaid 

The  rules,  regulations,  and  guidelines  included 
in  this  analysis  have  been  developed  by  the  federal 
government  and  apply  to  managed  care  plans 
wishing  to  contract  with  state  Medicaid  agencies 


to  provide  services  to  enrolled  Medicaid  recipients. 
State  Medicaid  agencies  or  other  state  offices  may 
develop  their  own  monitoring  strategy,  following 
guidelines  established  by  HCFA,  as  long  as  the 
state  complies  with  the  statutory  and  regulatory 
requirements  cited. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

The  Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care  (BPHC)  is 
the  largest  Bureau  within  the  Health  Besources  and 
Services  Administration  (HBSA)  of  the  Department 
of  Health  and  Human  Services.  Over  eight  million 
people  receive  health  care  through  BPHC  funded 
activities.  BPHC  has  oversight  responsibilities  for 
the  following  Public  Health  service  grants:  Section 
330  Community  Health  Center  Program;  Section  329 
Migrant  Health  Program;  329/330  Comprehensive 
Perinatal  Care  Program  (CPCP)  and  Special  Infant 
Mortality  Initiative  (SIMBI);  Section  340  Health 
Care  for  the  Homeless;  Section  340A  Primary  Care 
for  Besidents  of  Public  Housing;  and  the  Byan 
White  Title  111(b)  HIV/Early  Intervention  Services 
Program.  The  purpose  of  the  Primary  Care  Effec- 
tiveness Beview  (PCEB)  as  an  onsite  review  is  both 
evaluative  and  consultative  in  nature.  The  evalua- 
tive component  is  necessary  to  validate  compliance 
with  program  expectations  and  Federal  statute. 
The  consultative  component  is  designed  to  identify 
and  address  opportunities  for  improvement.  The 
dual  function  is  designed  to  enhance  and  maximize 
the  investments  of  both  the  community  and  the 
government  in  our  mission  to  provide  access  to 
quality  primary  care  to  the  people  we  serve. 
[Program  Information  Notice  95-26] 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


5 


I.  V.  'type  of  (  h'gunizulion/ Background/ Purpose  (continued) 


NAIC 

The  National  Association  of  Insurance  Commis- 
sioners (NAIC)  is  ihe  organization  of  insurance 
commissioners  from  the  fifty  (50)  states,  the  District 
of  ( lolumbia,  and  the  four  I  f.S.  territories.  II  was 
created  in  1871  to  address  the  need  to  coordinate  the 
regulation  of  inultislate  insurers.  The  NAIC  pro\  ides 
a  forum  for  the  development  of  uniform  public 
policj  when  uniformity  is  appropriate. 

Tin'  NAlC's  primarj  instruments  of  public 
polic)  are  model  laws,  regulations  and  guidelines. 
The  NAIC  proposes  model  legislation  and  regula- 
tions to  state  insurance  commissioners  or  other 
stale  agencies  (e.g.,  Department  of  Health)  for  use  in 
establishing  their  legislative  and  regulatory  require- 
ments for  licensing  health  carriers  and  monitoring 
them  in  their  pro\  ision  of  managed  care  plans.  The 
slates  ma\  either  adopt  the  models  intact  or  modify 
them  to  meet  their  specific  needs  and  conditions. 

The  \  UC  has  adopted  four  model  laws 
that  contain  quality  improvement  standards  and 
processes  to  monitor  managed  care  plans,  and  il 
is  in  the  process  of  developing  at  least  lour  others. 
In  1975  the  N  VIC  adopted  the  Health  Maintenance 
Organization  Model  Act  |N\IC.  Model  Regulation 
Sen  ice  -  Jul\  199  5|.  w  Inch  has  been  widely  enacted 
among  the  stales.  In  1987  the  \  MC  also  adopted 
a  model  regulation  to  implement  the  II MO  Model 
\cl.  [NAIC,  Model  Regulation  to  Implement  Rules 
Regarding  Contracts  and  Services  of  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organizations.  Model  Regulation  Service  - 
.Ian.  1991. |  The  \  MC  also  adopted,  in  1987.  the 
Preferred  Provider  Arrangements  Model  Act. 
[NAIC.  Model  Regulation  Sen  ice  -  .Ian.  1987.] 

More  recenth  the  NAIC  has  been  developing 
a  set  of  model  health  plan  standards  that  would 
apph  to  the  range  of  managed  care  organizations 
that  are  emerging  in  the  marketplace.  This  sum- 
mary is  based  primarily  on  the  provisions  of  these 
newer  health  plan  standards.  Two  of  the  seven 
model  standards  abstracted  here  were  adopted 
In  the  N  UC  in  June  1996  as  new  model  acts:  the 
Quality  Assessment  and  Improvement  Model  Act 
and  the  Health  Care  Professional  Credentialing 


Verification  Model  Act.  Three  other  models  have 
been  adopted  by  the  NAIC's  Accident  and  Health 
Insurance  (B)  Committee:  the  Managed  Care  Plan 
Network  Adequacy  Model  Act;  the  Health  Carrier 
Grievance  Procedure  Model  Act;  and  the  Utilization 
Review  Model  Act.  These  three  standards  are  on  the 
agenda  for  adoption  by  the  full  NAIC  at  its  Septem- 
ber 1996  meeting.  In  contrast,  the  drafts  of  the 
Health  Information  Confidentiality  Model  Act  and 
Ihe  Data  Reporting  Model  Act  are  more  preliminary, 
have  not  yet  been  adopted  by  any  NAIC  committee, 
and  are  likely  to  undergo  substantial  changes. 

The  NAIC  has  developed  uniform  definitions 
thai  are  contained  in  the  quality,  credentialing, 
network,  utilization  review,  and  grievance  models. 
The  definitions  of  "health  carrier"  and  "managed 
care  plan"  are  of  particular  importance;  both  are 
broad  definitions  intended  to  encompass  a  wide 
variet)  of  managed  care  entities.  "Health  carrier" 
is  defined  as  "an  entity  subject  to  the  insurance 
law  s  and  regulations  of  this  state,  or  subject  to  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  commissioner,  that  contracts  or 
oilers  to  contract  to  provide,  deliver,  arrange  for, 
pa)  Tor  or  reimburse  any  of  the  costs  of  health  care 
services,  including  a  sickness  and  accident  insur- 
ance company,  a  health  maintenance  organization, 
a  nonprofit  hospital  and  health  service  corporation, 
or  any  other  entity  providing  a  plan  of  health  insur- 
ance, health  benefits  or  health  services." 

"Managed  care  plan"  is  defined  to  mean 
"a  health  benefit  plan  that  either  requires  a  covered 
person  to  use.  or  creates  incentives,  including 
financial  incentives,  for  a  covered  person  to  use, 
health  care  providers  managed,  owned,  under 
contract  with,  or  employed  by  the  health  carrier." 

JCAHO 

The  Joint  Commission  on  Accreditation  of  Health- 
care Organizations  (JCAHO)  is  a  not-for-profit 
organization  whose  major  functions  include  the 
development  of  standards  and  performance  mea- 
sures, the  aw  ard  of  accreditation,  and  the  provision 
of  educational  and  consultation  sen  ices  to  health 
care  organizations.  The  JCAHO  accredits  ambula- 


Blne  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


LA.  Type  of  Organization/Background/Purpose  (continued) 


tory  care  organizations,  behavioral  health  programs 
and  organizations,  home  care  organizations,  hospi- 
tals, laboratories,  nursing  homes  and  other  long 
term  care  organizations,  and  health  care  networks. 
A  health  care  network  is  defined  as  an  entity  that 
provides,  or  provides  for,  integrated  health  care 
services  to  a  defined  population  of  individuals... 
and  is  characterized  by  a  centralized  structure  that 
coordinates  and  integrates  services  provided  by 
component  organizations  and  practitioner  partici- 
pating in  the  network.  Network  accreditation  does 
not  constitute  accreditation  of  individual  component 
entities  which  must  receive  such  accreditation  by 
virtue  of  their  separate  survey  process  (e.g.,  hospital 
or  home  health  agency). 

Due  to  the  complex  and  varying  nature  of 
the  types  of  entities  subject  to  review  under  these 
standards,  the  network  standards  focus  primarily 
on  leadership  and  central  organizational  structure. 
Standards  have  been  developed  in  each  of  the  fol- 
lowing eight  categories,  only  portions  of  which  have 
been  extracted  for  purposes  of  this  analysis:  Rights, 
Responsibilities,  and  Ethics;  Continuum  of  Care; 
Education  and  Communication;  Health  Promotion 
and  Disease  Prevention;  Leadership;  Management 
of  Human  Resources;  Management  of  Information; 
and  Improving  Network  Performance. 

An  accreditation  survey  may  be  performed 
at  the  request  of  a  health  care  network  or  an  evalua- 
tion survey  may  be  performed  at  the  request  of 
a  third  party.  In  most  cases,  the  same  standards 
are  applied  in  both  surveys;  however,  third-party 
evaluations  may  be  customized  to  meet  the  needs 
of  the  requesting  party. 

NCQA 

NCQA  is  an  independent  organization  established 
to  review  the  quality  and  medical  management 
systems  of  managed  care  organizations  or  similarly 
organized  pre-paid  health  programs. 

Reviews  can  be  done  at  the  request  of  an  orga- 
nization seeking  NCQA  accreditation  or  as  part  of 
an  external  quality  review  required  by  a  regulatory 
agency  to  determine  compliance  with  applicable 


state  or  federal  requirements.  Standards  for  external 
quality  reviews  and  review  determinations  may  be 
different  from  NCQA's  standards  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  1996,  Section  XIV,  p.  14]. 

URAC 

URAC  is  an  independent,  not-for-profit  organization 
that  promotes  continuous  improvement  in  the 
quality  and  efficiency  of  health  care  delivery.  URAC 
seeks  to  achieve  a  common  understanding  of  excel- 
lence among  purchasers,  providers,  and  patients 
through  the  establishment  of  standards,  programs 
of  education  and  communication,  and  a  process 
of  accreditation. 

URAC  has  long  been  recognized  as  the  preem- 
inent accrediting  body  for  utilization  management 
organizations  throughout  the  United  States.  In  addi- 
tion, URAC  has  developed  National  Network  Accred- 
itation Standards  to  serve  as  guidelines  for  the 
evolving  managed  care  industry.  These  accredita- 
tion standards  apply  to  all  organizations  offering 
managed  care  services,  including  preferred  provider 
organizations,  health  maintenance  organizations, 
physician  hospital  organizations,  independent  prac- 
tice associations,  and  other  managed  care  systems. 
Provider  networks  and  managed  care  organizations 
providing  services  for  government  programs  such 
as  Medicare,  Medicaid,  and  Workers'  Compensation 
may  also  apply  for  URAC  accreditation. 

Accreditation  reviews  are  performed  at  the 
request  of  organizations  applying  for  voluntary 
accreditation. 

Minnesota 

The  State  of  Minnesota  promulgates  rules  and 
regulations  governing  the  operation  of  HMOs  within 
the  state.  Authority  rests  with  the  Department  of 
Health  to  issue  a  certificate  of  authority,  based  on 
a  review  of  organizational  stability  and  financial 
solvency,  network  capacity,  provider  and  organiza- 
tional capacity  to  deliver  the  proposed  range  of  ser- 
vices and  ongoing  monitoring  of  plan  performance. 
Changes  in  the  procedures  and  programs  to  monitor 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


7 


LA.  Type  of  Organization/ Background/ Purpose  (continued) 


the  quality  of  care  must  be  submitted  to  the  Depart- 
ment of  Health  for  approval  prior  to  implementa- 
tion. The  Minnesota  Department  of  Human  Services 
establishes  contract  specifications  and  compliance 
for  plans  enrolling  Medicaid  beneficiaries. 

Similar  overall  authority  to  issue  licenses, 
require  quality  assurance  procedures  and  monitor 
plan  performance  exists  for  newly  created  "commu- 
nity integrated  service  networks"  (CISN).  Pursuant 
to  Minnesota  Statutes,  these  entities  are  defined 
as  "a  community  based  and  governed  organization 
responsible  for  providing  or  arranging  the  provision 
of  comprehensive  health  care  services  on  a  prepay- 
ment basis  to  a  voluntarily  enrolled  population 
of  50,000  or  fewer."  CISNs  were  allowed  to  submit 
applications  for  licensure  as  of  July  1, 1994,  and 
began  providing  care  on  January  1,  1995.  Notation 
is  made  in  this  analysis  wherever  a  given  standard 
does  not  apply  to  the  CISN. 

Ohio 

The  State  of  Ohio  promulgates  rules  and  regulations 
governing  the  operation  of  managed  care  plans 
within  the  state.  Authority  rests  with  the  Depart- 
ment of  Insurance  to  issue  a  certificate  of  authority 
based  on  a  review  of  organizational  stability  and 
financial  solvency  as  well  as  findings  from  the 
Department  of  Health;  the  Department  of  Health 
assesses  network,  provider  and  organizational 
capacity  to  deliver  the  proposed  range  of  services 
and  conducts  ongoing  monitoring  of  plan  perfor- 
mance; and  the  Ohio  Department  of  Human 
Services  establishes  minimum  contract  specifica- 
tions and  monitors  compliance  for  plans  providing 
services  to  Medicaid  enrollees. 


Pennsylvania 

The  following  sections  include  statutes,  regulations 
and  guidelines  pertaining  to  the  quality  assurance 
provisions  for  operating  managed  care  organiza- 
tions within  Pennsylvania.  Principal  enforcing 
agencies  include  the  Department  of  Insurance, 
which,  jointly  with  the  Department  of  Health, 
issues  a  certificate  of  authority  for  a  plan  to  conduct 
business  within  the  state  and  monitors  all  financial 
solvency  requirements;  the  Department  of  Health, 
responsible  for  ongoing  monitoring  of  plan 
performance  against  established  quality  assurance 
standards  and  consumer  grievances;  and  the 
Department  of  Public  Welfare,  which  serves  as 
the  contracting  entity  for  plans  wishing  to  provide 
services  to  Medicaid  recipients.  For  purposes  of 
this  analysis,  Medicaid  standards  pertain  to  those 
required  of  the  state's  HealthPASS  mandatory 
program.  Although  HealthPASS  is  currently  a  Health 
Insuring  Organization  (HIO)  not  subject  to  the 
requirements  for  health  maintenance  organizations 
specified  in  the  "all  plans"  sections  of  this  analysis, 
the  organization  has  secured  its  HMO  license. 
This  license  will  be  used  to  operate  as  a  separate 
Health  Maintenance  Organization  (HMO)  in  the 
future.  The  department  of  Public  Welfare  has  plans 
to  replace  the  HealthPASS  Program  with  a  new 
expanded  program  known  as  Health  Choices  in 
the  near  future. 

The  Department  of  Health  has  informally 
adopted  NCQA  guidelines  and  intends  to  amend 
HMO  regulations  to  formalize  these  standards. 
As  a  practical  matter  plans  are  held  to  NCQA 
standards. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blur  Mm-id  Association 


LB.  Frequency  of  Review/ 
Period  of  Effectiveness 


Medicare 

After  a  Medicare  contract  is  awarded,  HMOs  and 
CMPs  are  subject  to  biennial  review  to  monitor  plan 
performance. 

Regulation:  HCFA  is  responsible  for  overseeing 
an  entity's  continuing  compliance  with  the  require- 
ments for  an  HMO  or  CMP  [42  CFR  417.406(d)]. 
HCFA  may  evaluate,  through  inspection  or  other 
means,  the  quality,  appropriateness  and  timeliness 
of  services  furnished  under  the  contract  to  its 
Medicare  enrollees  [42  CFR  417.482(a)].  See  also 
External  Review 

Federal  Qualification 

Plans  remain  federally  qualified  indefinitely  unless 
the  plan  requests  relinquishment  of  its  Federal 
status,  or  HCFA  revokes  such  status  for  cause. 

Medicaid 

Regulation:  For  prepaid  health  plans,  the  state 
establishes  a  system  of  annual  periodic  medical 
audits  to  ensure  that  each  contractor  furnishes  qual- 
ity and  accessible  health  care  to  enrolled  recipients 
which,  at  a  minimum,  collects  data  on  the  reasons 
for  enrollment  and  termination  and  the  use  of 
services  [42  CFR  434.53].  See  also  external  review. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

The  Primary  Care  Effectiveness  Review  (PCER)  is 
an  onsite  review  for  RPHC  grantees  that  are  in  the 
middle  of  an  approved  project  period,  usually 
during  the  third  year  of  a  five  year  grant.  [BPHC 
Program  Information  Notice  95-26] 


NAIC 

The  commissioner  (of  insurance)  may  make  an 
examination  of  the  affairs  of  any  plan  and  providers 
with  whom  such  organization  has  contracts,  agree- 
ments or  other  arrangements  as  often  as  is  reason- 
ably necessary  for  the  protection  of  the  interests 
of  the  people  of  the  state,  but  not  less  frequently 
than  once  every  3  years  [NAIC,  Health  Maintenance 
Organization  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  - 
July  1995,  Section  19.A]. 

The  commissioner  of  public  health  may  make 
an  examination  concerning  the  quality  assurance 
program  of  the  plan  and  of  any  providers  with 
whom  such  organization  has  contracts,  agreements 
or  other  arrangements  as  often  as  is  reasonably 
necessary  for  the  protection  of  the  interests  of  the 
people  of  the  state,  but  not  less  frequently  than  once 
every  3  years  [NAIC,  Health  Maintenance  Organiza- 
tion Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July 
1995,  Section  19.B]. 

JCAHO 

An  accreditation  award  is  valid  for  three  years, 
unless  revoked  for  cause.  Accreditation  is  effective 
on  the  first  day  after  the  Joint  Commission  com- 
pletes a  health  care  network's  survey.  The  Joint 
Commission  expects  a  network  receiving  a  type 
I  recommendation  (a  recommendation  or  group 
of  recommendations  that  addresses  insufficient  or 
unsatisfactory  standards  compliance  in  a  specific 
performance  area)  to  achieve  substantial  or  signifi- 
cant compliance  with  the  relevant  standard(s) 
within  a  specific  time  frame.  The  Joint  Commission 
monitors  networks  accreditation  with  type  I 
recommendations  for  their  successful  resolution. 
Monitoring  and  the  time  frame  for  demonstrating 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


9 


LB.  Frequency  of  Review/Period  of  Effectiveness  (continued) 


improvements  depend  on  the  nature  of  the  concern. 
The  effect  on  member  care  is  of  particular  concern. 
For  many  type  I  recommendations,  the  Joint 
Commission  requires  networks  to  submit  a  written 
progress  report.  Other  type  I  recommendation 
issues  require  an  on-site  survey  know  as  a 
focused  survey. 

The  Joint  Commission  may  perform  either 
an  unscheduled  or  unannounced  survey  when  it 
becomes  aware  of  potentially  serious  standards 
compliance  problems  in  an  accredited  network. 
Either  type  of  survey  can  take  place  at  any  point 
in  a  network's  three-year  accreditation  cycle. 

The  Joint  Commission  also  conducts  midcycle, 
unannounced  surveys  on  a  5%  random  sample 
of  accredited  networks.  The  surveyor  primarily 
assesses  the  five  performance  areas  identified  by 
Joint  Commission  as  the  most  troublesome  in  the 
previous  years  aggregate  survey  data.  These  perfor- 
mance areas  may  change  annually  based  on  the 
previous  year's  data. 

NCQA 

Full  accreditation  is  awarded  for  a  three-year 
period,  unless  revoked.  More  frequent  reviews  may 
be  conducted  in  cases  of  less  than  full  accreditation, 
or  at  the  request  of  the  MCO  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  1996,  Section  IX,  p.  9].  Change  in 
operational  or  organizational  status  may  be  grounds 
for  a  discretionary  survey  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  1996,  Section  XI,  p.  10]. 

An  organization  may  elect  to  undergo  the 
survey  as  a  pre-accreditation  review  that  does  not 
result  in  an  accreditation  determination  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  1996,  Section  XV,  p. 14]. 


URAC 

Accreditation  is  awarded  for  a  period  of  two  years. 
Organizations  are  required  to  meet  or  exceed  all 
designated  "shall"  standards  and  60  percent  of 
all  "should"  standards.  Organizations  may  be  placed 
in  a  corrective  action  period  prior  to  the  award  of 
accreditation  to  assure  compliance.  Organizations 
that  experience  material  changes,  such  as  change 
of  ownership  and  the  addition  of  new  sites  of  opera- 
tion, must  notify  URAC  when  such  changes  occur 
and  may  be  required  to  complete  an  application 
for  a  Supplemental  Review.  Generally,  accreditation 
is  effective  from  the  point  of  approval  of  URAC's 
Executive  Committee 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  The  Department  of  Health  may  make  an 
examination  of  the  affairs  of  a  plan  as  often  as  the 
commissioner  of  health  deems  necessary  for  the 
protection  of  the  public  interests,  but  not  less  fre- 
quently than  once  every  5  years  [Minnesota  Statutes, 
Chapter  62D,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
62D.14,  Subd.l]. 

Medicaid:  The  Department  of  Human  Services 
or  its  agents  evaluate,  through  inspection  or  other 
means,  the  quality,  appropriateness,  and  timeliness 
of  services  performed  under  its  contract  with  the 
plan  [Minnesota  Department  of  Human  Services 
Rules,  9500.1460  Subp.17].  The  frequency  of  these 
reviews  is  not  specified. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  Certificates  of  authority  are  issued  for 
an  indefinite  period  based  on  the  submission  of 
annual  reports  and  continuing  compliance  with 
all  requirements. 

The  Department  of  Health  may  make  an 
on-site  examination  concerning  compliance  with 
state  requirements  as  often  as  considered  necessary 
for  the  protection  of  the  interest  of  the  public,  but 
no  less  frequently  than  once  every  3  years  [Ohio 
Revised  Code,  1742.21(H)]. 


Nine  Cross  .Kid  llluc  Shield  Association 


in 


LB.  Frequency  of  Review/Period  of  Effectiveness  (continued) 


Medicaid:  Provider  agreements  to  enroll  Medicaid 
recipients  are  negotiated  annually  based  on  a 
request  for  proposal  process.  Providers  agreement 
may  be  renewed  for  one  or  more  times  by  a  writing 
signed  by  both  parties  for  a  period  of  not  more  than 
twelve  months  for  each  renewal. 

The  Ohio  Department  of  Human  Services  or 
its  designee  may  conduct  on-site  audits  and  reviews 
as  deemed  necessary  based  on  periodic  analysis 
of  financial,  utilization  and  other  information  [Ohio 
Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-06(B)]. 
ODHS  will  review,  approve  and  monitor  managed 
care  plan-  developed  CAPs.  [5101:3-26-07  (D)] 

The  Ohio  Department  of  Human  Services 
conducts  quarterly  meetings  with  the  plans  to  moni- 
tor progress  with  the  plan's  corrective  action  plan 
resulting  from  an  independent  comprehensive  qual- 
ity assurance  survey,  as  applicable  [Ohio  Adminis- 
trative Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-07(C)(6)(d)]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  The  Department  of  Health,  in  conjunction 
with  an  independent  Quality  Review  Organization, 
conducts  on-site  reviews  of  plan  performance 
within  1  year  of  receipt  of  a  certificate  of  authority, 
and  every  3  years  thereafter. 

The  Department  of  Health  may  conduct  on-site 
inspections  of  the  plan's  facilities  and  records  to 
determine  the  quality  of  care  rendered  by  the  plan. 

Medicaid:  Medicaid  risk-based  plans  are  required 
to  have  an  annual  independent  external  quality 
review  (see  external  review). 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


I  i 


I.C.  Review  Team  Requirements 


Medicare 

Review  team  members  consist  of  HCFA  personnel 
from  the  Office  of  Managed  Care,  Regional  Offices 
and  HCFA  consultants  as  required. 

Federal  Qualification 

There  are  no  standards.  HCFA  personnel  from  the 
Office  of  Managed  Care  conduct  application  review 
and  ongoing  monitoring  activity. 

Medicaid 

Guidelines:  Review  of  the  health  plan's  internal 
quality  assurance  program  is  conducted  by  the 
state  agency.  States  may  perform  this  monitoring 
directly  themselves,  utilizing  Medicaid  or  other  state 
resources,  or  they  may  secure  monitoring  services 
through  a  contractor  that  is  not  in  a  conflict-of- 
interest  position;  e.g.,  a  managed  care  organization 
or  an  association  of  managed  care  organizations 
[A  Health  Care  Qualify  Improvement  System  for 
Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medic- 
aid Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration, 
July  6,  1993,  Element  B,  p.  9]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

The  Primary  Care  Effectiveness  Review  team 
includes  a  URSA  Field  Office  representative  who 
may  be  the  project  officer  and  review  team  leader. 
Other  team  members  are  consultants  provided 
through  BPHC  Technical  Assistance  Contracts. 
[BPIIC  Program  Information  Notice  95-26] 

NAIC 

No  standard  specified. 


JCAHO 

The  number  of  days  required  for  a  survey,  its  com- 
position, and  the  composition  of  the  survey  team  are 
based  on  information  provided  in  the  Application 
for  Survey.  The  Joint  Commission  will  structure  the 
survey  team  to  the  network's  specific  characteristics. 
For  example,  when  certain  services  are  provided  in 
high  volume,  the  survey  team  may  include  survey- 
ors who  have  special  expertise  in  that  service. 

NCQA 

Survey  team  members  are  practicing  professionals 
from  managed  care  organizations  who  typically 
have  experience  in,  and  responsibility  for,  quality 
assurance  in  their  own  organizations.  All  surveyors 
must  complete  an  NCQA  surveyor  training  program. 
At  a  minimum,  a  survey  team  includes  one  physi- 
cian surveyor  and  one  administrative  surveyor. 
Criteria  are  established  for  selecting  the  physician 
and  administrative  representative  on  the  survey 
team. 

The  size  and  composition  of  the  survey  team 
may  vary  depending  upon  the  size  and  complexity 
of  the  managed  care  organization,  the  specifics 
of  the  review  process,  and  the  number  of  medical 
records  to  be  reviewed  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  f996,  Section  IV,  p.  3]. 

URAC 

The  network  survey  team  typically  consists  of  two 
persons  who  have  direct  experience  in  managed 
care  operations.  Most  reviewers  are  URAC 
employees. 


liluf  Cross  and  lihic  Shield  Association 


12 


I.C.  Review  Team  Requirements  (continued) 


Minnesota 

All  plans:  Conducted  by  staff  within  the  Department 
of  Health. 

Medicaid:  Conducted  by  staff  within  the  Depart- 
ment of  Human  Services  and  the  Department  of 
Health. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  The  Department  of  Health  conducts 
periodic  audits. 

Medicaid:  The  Department  of  Human  Services 
schedules  quarterly  meetings  to  review  utilization 
data,  monitor  enrollee  grievances,  audit  sterilization 
reports,  assess  progress  with  quality  assurance 
corrective  action  plans,  and  provide  quality 
improvement  technical  assistance. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  The  independent  Quality  Review 
Organization  conducting  on-site  reviews  includes 
survey  team  members  who  are  I  PA  and/or  group/ 
staff  physicians  (and  ancillary  staff  as  appropriate) 
who  are  specially  trained  to  conduct  evaluations. 
Strict  provisions  are  enacted  to  ensure  team 
members  have  no  conflict  of  interest.  Department 
of  Health  representatives  are  present  during 
each  external  assessment  and  have  the  right 
to  participate  as  full  team  participants  [Invitation 
to  Qualify  as  an  Approved  HMO  Quality  Review 
Organization,  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health, 
Appendix  II,  p.  16]. 

Survey  team  members  undergo  an  acceptable 
training  program  which  ensures  uniform  applica- 
tion of  standards  and  criteria  [Invitation  to  Qualify 
as  an  Approved  HMO  Quality  Review  Organization, 
Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health,  Part  1,  p. 6]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


15 


I.D.  Review  Process/ 
Components  of  Review 


Medicare 

Statute:  The  Secretary  or  designee  has  the  right  to 
evaluate  the  quality,  appropriateness  and  timeliness 
of  services  when  there  is  evidence  that  such  an 
inspection  is  needed  [Section  1876(i)(5)(A)(i)  of 
the  Social  Security  Act]. 

The  review  process  includes  the  analysis  of  an 
application  which  must  be  processed  within  certain 
time  frames.  HCFA  staff  conduct  an  in-house  review 
prior  to  doing  an  on-site  visit.  All  aspects  of  a  plan's 
operation  are  reviewed.  Deficiencies  are  corrected 
prior  to  contract  award.  Once  awarded,  monitoring 
of  plan  performance  is  conducted  through  biennial 
on-site  visits  and  ongoing  monitoring  of  the  plan's 
activities.  There  is  a  process  for  denial  of  applica- 
tions and  termination  of  contracts  if  necessary. 

Federal  Qualification 

The  review  process  includes  analysis  of  an  applica- 
tion which  must  be  processed  within  certain  time 
frames.  HCFA  staff  conduct  an  in-house  review 
prior  to  doing  an  on-site  visit.  All  aspects  of  a  plan's 
operation  are  reviewed.  Deficiencies  are  corrected 
prior  to  qualification.  There  is  a  process  for  denial, 
if  necessary. 

Medicaid 

Guidelines:  States  are  to  monitor  each  plan  to 
assess  to  what  extent  its  quality  assurance  program 
meets  state-specified  standards.  States  may  employ 
a  variety  of  monitoring  approaches,  including  the 
submission  to  the  state  of  specific  data  and/or 
reports  on  a  periodic  basis,  using  on-site  monitoring 
inspections,  or  a  combination  of  these  [A  Health 
Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for  Medicaid 


Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau, 
Health  Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993, 
Element  B,  p.  9]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

The  Primary  Care  Effectiveness  Review  protocol 
includes  five  modules:  administration,  governance, 
finance,  clinical  and  management  information  sys- 
tems. Each  of  these  modules  includes  elements  that 
are  either  required  by  law,  regulation,  or  program 
expectations,  or  recommended  as  good  practice. 
Four  basic  functions  of  the  review  include: 

Monitoring:  The  review  examines  compliance  with 
mandated  performance  standards  and  factors  that 
can  enhance  the  establishment  and  maintenance 
of  a  strong,  viable  organizational  environment. 

Identification  of  strengths  and  weaknesses:  While 
on-site,  the  review  team  focuses  on  identifying 
health  center  strengths  and  weaknesses.  Program 
weaknesses  are  addressed  by  establishing  a 
timetable  for  completing  and  implementing 
a  corrective  action  plan. 

Establishment  of  a  technical  assistance  plan: 
Programs  may  receive  Technical  Assistance  to 
address  issues  raised  by  a  Primary  Care  Effective- 
ness Review  to  comply  with  program  expectations, 
Federal  regulations  and  to  improve  capacity/quality 
of  services  provided.  [BPHC  Program  Information 
Notice  95-26] 

Information  exchange:  The  peer  review  process 
provides  team  members  with  the  opportunity  to 
learn  from  the  health  center  they  are  reviewing, 
while  also  providing  the  health  center  with  the 
benefit  of  the  team's  experience. 


Rlur  ( j-uss  and  Blur  Shield  Association 


I  I 


I.D.  Review  Process/Components  of  Review  (continued) 


NAIC 

A  health  maintenance  organization  must  file 
a  description  of  its  proposed  quality  assurance 
program  as  part  of  its  application  for  a  certificate 
of  authority.  [NAIC,  Health  Maintenance  Organiza- 
tion Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July 
1995,  Section  3.]  An  HMO  must  also  record  proceed- 
ings of  a  formal  quality  assurance  program  and 
make  those  minutes  available  to  the  commissioner 
of  public  health.  [NAIC,  Health  Maintenance  Orga- 
nization Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July 
1995,  Section  7C]  It  must  also  make  clinical  records 
of  enrollees  available  to  the  public  health  commis- 
sioner for  the  determination  of  compliance  with 
the  act.  [NAIC,  Health  Maintenance  Organization 
Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1995, 
Section  7E.] 

A  health  carrier  offering  a  managed  care 
plan  must  file  a  quality  assessment  plan  with  the 
insurance  commissioner.  A  health  carrier  offering 
a  closed  plan,  which  is  defined  to  be  essentially  an 
HMO,  must  also  file  a  quality  improvement  plan 
with  the  commissioner.  [NAIC,  Quality  Assessment 
and  Improvement  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation 
Service  -  July  1996,  Sections  5  and  6.] 

A  health  carrier  must  file  with  the  commis- 
sioner an  access  plan  for  each  managed  care  plan 
that  it  offers.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Managed  Care 
Plan  Network  Adequacy  Model  Act,  June  2,  1996, 
Section  5R.] 

JCAHO 

The  purpose  of  a  Joint  Commission  accreditation 
survey  is  to  assess  the  extent  of  a  network's  compli- 
ance with  applicable  Joint  Commission  standards. 
Compliance  is  assessed  through  one  or  more  of 
the  following  means: 

•  receipt  of  verbal  information  concerning  the 
implementation  of  standards,  or  examples  of 
their  implementation,  enabling  a  judgment 
of  compliance  to  be  made; 


•  on-site  observations  by  Joint  Commission 
surveyors;  and 

•  review  of  documents  that  demonstrate 
compliance  and  assist  in  orienting  surveyors 
to  the  network's  operation. 

The  four  basic  elements  of  the  network  survey 
process  include: 

Survey  of  the  network  central  office,  using  standards 
in  the  Accreditation  Manual  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works. Activities  included  in  this  review  include: 
Accredited  Components  Chief  Executive  Officer 
Interview,  Competency  Review,  Continuum  of 
Care  Interview,  Credentials/Privileges  Review, 
Daily  Rriefings,  Document  Review,  Information 
Management  Interview,  Leadership  Interview, 
Marketing/Sales  Management  Interview,  Member 
Group  Interview,  Member  Relations  Staff  Interview, 
Opening  Conference,  Performance  Improvement 
Oversight  Group  Interview,  Practitioner  Group 
Interview,  Practitioner  Relations  Staff  Interview, 
Purchaser  Group  Interview,  and  Risk  Manage- 
ment/Utilization Management  Staff  Interview. 

Survey  of  practitioner  site(s),  using  selected  network 
standards.  The  on-site  survey  of  a  sample  of  practi- 
tioner sites  includes  a  brief  opening  with  the  practi- 
tioner and  staff,  a  tour  of  the  facility,  competency 
review,  medical  record  review,  performance 
improvement  interview,  and  an  exit  briefing. 

Survey  of  componen  ts,  using  standards  selected  from 
the  Joint  Commission  standards  manual  that  relate 
to  specific  health  care  settings  (e.g.,  home  care  or 
ambulatory  health  care)  and  standards  selected 
from  the  Accreditation  Manual  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works. This  element  of  the  survey  process  focuses 
on  a  sample  of  unaccredited  components  of  the 
network,  which  includes  a  significant  sample  of 
components  providing  high-risk  services  [e.g.,  sites 
that  administer  anesthesia;  have  overnight  patients; 
provide  dialysis,  emergency/urgent  care,  infusion 
therapy,  ventilator  care,  contract  imaging  studies 
(other  than  gastrointestinal),  radiation  oncology 
services,  23-hour  recovery  services;  or  birthing 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


1 5 


I.D.  Rev  iew  Process/Components  of  Review  (continued) 


centers]  and  a  sample  of  components  providing 
any  other  type(s)  of  service(s). 

Leadership  Briefing  at  the  network  central  office 
in  review  network  accreditation  survey  findings. 

The  Joint  Commission  evaluates  all  relevant 
information  about  a  network's  compliance  with 
applicable  standards.  It  therefore  requires  a  sur- 
veyed network  to  inform  individuals  of  a  scheduled 
full  survey  and  invite  them  to  provide  the  survey 
team  with  relevant  information  during  the  Public 
Information  Interview  process.  The  surveyed  net- 
work is  responsible  for  making  the  public  informa- 
tion interview  process  widely  known  and  effective 
as  a  source  of  compliance  information  in  the 
accreditation  process.  The  Joint  Commission 
requires  a  network  scheduled  for  full  survey  to 
post  announcements  of  the  survey  date  and  of  the 
opportunity  for  a  public  information  interview  in 
public  places  on  its  premises,  such  as  public  eating 
areas,  on  bulletin  boards  near  major  entrances, 
in  treatment  or  residential  areas,  and  in  the  offices 
or  sites  of  its  participating  component  entities. 
The  Joint  Commission  considers  the  information 
gathered  by  the  survey  team  along  with  its  findings 
and  recommendations  during  the  survey  process. 

NCQA 

NCQA  reviews  the  organization's  quality-related 
systems  to  assess  the  extent  to  which  they  are  in 
compliance  with  NCQA's  standards.  Systems  under 
review  include,  but  are  not  necessarily  limited  to, 
quality  management,  utilization  management, 
credentialing,  member  services,  and  preventive 
health  services  programs. 

NCQA  assesses  compliance  with  its 
standards  lb  rough: 

•  rev  iew  of  written  documentation  and  records; 

•  on-site  observations  and  interviews; 

•  information  obtained  during  relevant  interviews 
with  members  of  the  organization; 


•  review  of  medical  records;  and 

•  assessment  of  member  service  systems. 

At  the  completion  of  the  2-4  day  site  visit, 
the  team  summarizes  its  preliminary  findings 
during  a  summation  conference  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  1996,  Section  VII,  p. 5]. 

After  the  survey,  the  surveyors  prepare  a  pre- 
liminary report  of  findings  and  recommendations. 
This  preliminary  report  is  submitted  to  the  organi- 
zation reviewed  which  has  up  to  30  days  to  submit 
comments  regarding  any  factual  errors  or  omissions 
[NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  1996,  Section  II, 
p.  16].  NCQA's  Review  Oversight  Committee  (ROC) 
makes  the  final  accreditation  determination  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  1996,  Section  III,  p.  16]. 

URAC 

Applicants  are  required  to  submit  written  docu- 
mentation of  their  policies  and  procedures  to 
demonstrate  compliance  with  URAC  network 
standards.  The  five  general  categories  of  standards 
include  utilization  management,  quality  manage- 
ment, provider  participation  and  management, 
provider  credentialing,  and  member  rights. 

Reviewers  conduct  a  desk  top  review  of 
documentation.  Once  it  is  determined  that  docu- 
mentation has  been  provided  for  each  standard, 
the  applicant  and  URAC  set  a  mutually  agreeable 
time  for  an  on  site  review  ,  generally  at  least  30  days 
after  the  desk  top  review  is  completed.  The  number 
and  duration  of  site  visits  is  determined  by  the  size 
and  complexity  of  the  applicant  organization.  Site 
visits  include  interviews  with  organizational  leaders 
such  as  medical  directors  and  quality  improvement 
leaders.  Reviewers  may  engage  in  random  audits 
and  observe  employees  as  they  perform  their 
day-to-day  functions.  The  on  site  review,  including 
observations,  interviews,  and  review  of  files,  is 
designed  to  assess  the  substance  and  application 
of  policies  and  procedures  as  set  forth  in  written 
documentation. 


liluc  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


16 


I.D.  Review  Process/Components  of  Review  (continued) 


Reviewers  will  score  the  applicant  for 
compliance  with  URAC  standards.  The  reviewers 
may  request  corrective  action  by  the  applicant  prior 
to  submitting  the  applications  with  report  and  rec- 
ommendation for  consideration  by  the  Accreditation 
Committee.  The  Accreditation  Committee  reviews 
each  application  in  a  blind  review.  All  references 
to  the  identity  of  the  applicant  are  deleted  to  avoid 
bias  and/or  conflict  of  interest.  Members  of  the 
Accreditation  Committee  are  drawn  from  nominees 
from  all  organizations  represented  on  URAC's  Board 
of  Directors.  The  Accreditation  Committee  may 
recommend  for  or  against  the  award  of  accredita- 
tion and  may  also  take  intermediate  steps  that 
involve  directing  the  applicant  to  take  corrective 
action  on  one  or  more  standard  areas.  In  the  case 
of  corrective  action,  the  applicant  is  typically  given 
90  days  to  complete  the  recommended  action  after 
which  the  reviewers  reevaluate  and  submit  a  second 
report  to  the  Accreditation  Committee.  Final  author- 
ity to  grant  an  award  of  accreditation  is  vested  in 
the  Executive  Committee,  which  reviews  all  reports 
and  recommendations  submitted  by  the  Accredita- 
tion Committee.  In  addition  to  directing  corrective 
actions,  both  the  Accreditation  and  Executive 
Committees  have  the  authority  to  order  an  addi- 
tional site  visit  by  a  reviewer. 

Applicants  who  are  denied  accreditation 
are  provided  an  opportunity  for  appeal,  and  the 
appeals  process  is  fully  disclosed  to  the  applicant 
upon  request.  Applicants  also  have  the  right  to 
withdraw  their  application  at  any  time,  subject 
to  certain  processing  fees. 


Minnesota 

All  plans:  Examination  of  plans  is  limited  to  the 
dealings  of  the  Department  of  Health  with  the  plan, 
except  that  examinations  may  include  inspection 
of  the  plan's  financial  statements.  The  Department 
has  the  right  to: 

•  inspect  or  otherwise  evaluate  the  quality,  appro- 
priateness and  timeliness  of  services  performed; 

•  audit  and  inspect  any  books  and  records  which 
pertain  to  services  performed; 

•  require  persons  or  organizations  under  examina- 
tion to  be  deposed  and  to  answer  interrogations; 
and 

•  employ  site  visits,  public  hearings  or  other  proce- 
dures considered  appropriate  to  obtain  informa- 
tion [Minnesota  Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations,  62D.14,  Subd.lJ. 

Medicaid:  The  state  monitoring  function  includes: 

•  review  of  plan's  quality  assurance  system  to 
determine  compliance  with  state  requirements; 

•  review  of  plan  complaints; 

•  service  delivery  review; 

•  independent  quality  assurance  review  of  health 
plans  (see  External  Review)  [Request  for  Propos- 
als, Medical  Assistance/General  Assistance 
Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior 
Health  Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan 
Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 

•  HEDIS  performance  reporting  on  public  clients 
to  begin  in  1997.  (Some  utilization  information 
based  on  HEDIS  2.5  collected  by  MDH  in  1996 
for  1995  services); 

•  collection,  processing  and  analysis  of  health  plan 
encounter  data;  and 

•  review  and  analysis  of  health  plans  decisions  to 
deny,  terminate  or  reduce  services  to  individual 
clients. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


17 


I.D.  Review  Process/Components  of  Review  (continued) 


Ohio 

All  plans:  The  Director  of  Health  may  make  an 
on-site  examination  concerning  compliance  with 
state  requirements  with  respect  to  health  care 
services  as  often  as  considered  necessary  for  the 
protection  of  the  interest  of  the  public,  but  not  less 
frequently  than  once  every  three  years.  No  further 
specification  is  given  on  the  scope  or  components 
of  this  review. 

Medicaid:  The  purpose  of  quarterly  meetings  is  to 
provide  utilization  data  comparisons  and  trending 
analysis  by  county  and  by  HMO,  assure  high  qual- 
ity, accessible  care  for  enrollees  and  offer  technical 
assistance  to  the  HMO's  staff. 


Medicaid:  The  Department  of  Public  Welfare 
conducts  periodic  onsite  reviews,  but  no  less  than 
monthly,  to  determine  compliance  with  contract 
requirements,  including  the  status  of  corrective 
action  plans,  study  processes,  audit  feedback  to 
participating  providers  and  utilization  review  activi- 
ties [Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public  Welfare, 
Operating  Agreement,  Section  18,  General  Terms 
and  Conditions,  18.4]. 


Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  Prior  to  granting  a  license,  the 
Department  of  Health  conducts  on-site  reviews  of 
the  plan  to  determine  if  all  systems  are  functioning 
according  to  Department  of  Health  standards  and 
the  application  for  licensure,  and  to  determine  if 
the  managed  care  network  and  system  is  sufficiently 
developed  to  serve  members  in  the  specified  service 
area.  Department  of  Health  staff  participate  in  tri- 
annual  reviews  of  all  health  plans  with  the  external 
re\  iew  entity  (see  Section  I  I.I).  More  frequent 
reviews  are  conducted  when  problems  are  identi- 
fied through  the  external  review  process  or  as  part 
of  ongoing  monitoring  activities  within  the  Depart- 
ment's investigation  of  complaints  and  utilization 
data.  On-site  visits  may  also  be  conducted  for 
acquisitions  or  mergers  of  licensed  plans  or  for 
other  purposes. 


Him-  Cross  and  Illuc  Shield  Association 


I  8 


I.E.  Status  Conferred 


Medicare 

Statute:  HCFA  determines  that  a  plan  is  an  eligible 
organization  for  Medicare  contracting  if  it  is  a 
Federally  qualified  health  maintenance  organization 
(HMO)  or  meets  the  requirements  of  a  Competitive 
Medical  Plan  (CMP)  [Section  1876(b)(2)  of  the 
Social  Security  Act]. 

Regulation:  In  order  for  an  entity  to  participate 
as  an  HMO  or  CMP  in  Medicare  contracting,  HCFA 
determines  that  the  entity  is  a  qualified  HMO  or 
CMP  and  satisfies  the  contract  requirements  for 
an  HMO  or  CMP  [42  CFR  417.404(a)]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Regulation:  In  determining  an  organization's 
approval  as  a  Federally  qualified  health  mainte- 
nance organization,  HCFA  makes  one  of  the 
following  determinations: 

•  Operational  qualified  HMO:  the  organization 
provides  basic  and  supplemental  services  in 
accordance  with  all  applicable  requirements 

•  Preoperational  qualified  HMO:  the  organization, 
when  it  becomes  operational,  within  60  days 
will  be  in  full  compliance  with  all  applicable 
requirements 

•  Transitionally  qualified  HMO:  applies  to  a  pre- 
paid health  care  delivery  system  that  HCFA  has 
determined  meets  all  applicable  requirements, 
other  than  benefits  and  premium  rating  in  force 
for  group  policies  [42  CFR  417.141]. 

Federal  qualification  may  be  revoked  for- 
cause,  or  upon  request  of  the  HMO  to  relinquish 
the  status. 


Medicaid 

A  plan  enters  into  a  contractual  agreement  with  the 
state  Medicaid  agency  to  enroll  Medicaid  recipients 
for  the  provision  of  covered  services. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

The  Primary  Care  Effectiveness  Review  is  a  compo- 
nent of  the  RPHC  Quality  Management  System. 
Key  findings  and  material  deficiencies  found  during 
the  review  are  reported  to  the  grantee  in  form  of  a 
quality  improvement  letter  (QUIL)  drafted  by  the 
Project  Officer  in  the  HRSA  Field  Office  or  BPHC 
IIIB  program  office.  The  grantee  has  six  months 
from  the  time  of  receipt  of  the  QUIL  to  submit  a 
plan  and/or  make  necessary  corrections  or 
improvements  to  respond  to  adverse  issues.  These 
issues  may  also  appear  in  a  pre-application  guid- 
ance letter  from  the  HRSA  Project  Officer  as  part  of 
the  instructions  the  grantee  will  receive  to  prepare 
for  continuation  or  renewal  of  the  program  grant. 
The  grantee  must  demonstrate  improvement  or 
success  in  addressing  issues  raised  in  the  Primary 
Care  Effectiveness  Review  when  submitting  its 
application.  [Regional  Office  Memorandum  95-13] 

NAIC 

A  health  maintenance  organization  must  comply 
with  the  provisions  of  the  HMO  Model  Act  and 
applicable  regulation  in  order  to  operate  legally  as 
an  HMO. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


I') 


I.E.  Status  Conferred  (continued) 


Health  carriers  are  required  to  comply  with 
applicable  provisions  of  the  health  plan  standards 
as  a  condition  of  doing  business  in  the  state. 

JCAHO 

The  Joint  Commission  provides  the  health  care 
network  with  an  accreditation  in  the  Official 
Accreditation  Decision  Report  within  60  days  of 
the  survey's  completion.  This  decision  regarding 
accreditation  involved  processing  the  surveyors' 
findings  according  to  established  aggregation 
rules  and  decision  rules.  There  are  seven  possible 
accreditation  decisions: 

•  Accreditation  with  commendation.  The  highest 
accreditation  decision  awarded  to  a  network  that 
has  demonstrated  exemplary  performance. 

•  Accreditation  with  or  without  Type  I  Recommen- 
dations. This  decision  indicates  that  a  network  is 
in  overall  compliance  with  applicable  standards. 
Accreditation  is  awarded  with  or  without  type  I 
recommendations.  A  type  I  recommendation(s)  is 
a  recommendation  or  group  of  recommendations 
that  must  be  resolved  within  a  specified  period  of 
time  or  the  network  risks  losing  its  accreditation. 

•  Provisional  accreditation.  An  accreditation 
decision  that  results  when  a  network  has 
demonstrated  substantial  compliance  with  the 
selected  structural  standards  surveyed  in  the  first 
of  two  surveys  conducted  under  the  Early  Survey 
Policy.  The  second  survey  is  conducted  approxi- 
mately six  months  later  to  allow  the  network 
sufficient  time  to  demonstrate  a  track  record 

of  performance. 

•  Conditional  accreditation.  This  decision  indicates 
that  multiple  substantial  standards  compliance 
deficiencies  exist  in  a  network.  Correction  of 
deficiencies,  which  serve  as  the  basis  for  further 
consideration  of  conti  nuing  accreditation,  must 
be  demonstrated  through  follow-up  survey. 


•  Preliminary  Nonaccreditation.  A  health  care 
organization  has  met  one  or  more  criteria  for 
nonaccreditation,  but  acknowledges  the  potential 
existence  of  additional  information  which  may 
bear  upon  the  final  accreditation  decision. 

•  Not  accredited.  An  accreditation  decision  that 
results  when  a  network  has  been  denied  accredi- 
tation, when  its  accreditation  is  withdrawn  by 
the  Joint  Commission,  or  when  it  withdraws  from 
the  accreditation  process.  This  designation  also 
describes  any  network  that  has  never  applied 

for  accreditation. 

NCQA 

The  accreditation  process  results  in  one  of  six 
compliance  level  designations: 

•  Full  accreditation:  accreditation  for  a  three-year 
period. 

•  Accreditation  with  recommendations:  the  agency 
must  take  action  on  deficiencies  and  report  back 
to  NCQA  within  90  days.  Rased  on  the  report, 
NCQA  will  determine  if  the  organization  has 
taken  satisfactory  action  to  comply  with  the 
recommendations,  and  can  be  moved  to  full 
accreditation. 

•  One-year  accreditation:  the  managed  care 
organization  is  in  significant  compliance  with 
the  standards.  The  decision  will  be  effective  for 
15  months,  and  the  managed  care  organization 
is  resurveyed  within  12  months. 

•  Provisional  accreditation:  the  MCO  is  in 
partial  compliance  with  the  standards  lasting 
for  15  months,  and  requiring  a  resurvey  within 
12  months. 

•  Denial  of  accreditation. 

•  Deferral  of  accreditation  pending  receipt  of 
additional  information  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  1996,  Section  IV,  p.  16-19]. 


liluc  i  mss  . i lit!  Blue  Shield  VssiH'Wtion 


20 


I.E.  Status  Conferred  (continued) 


URAC 

The  accreditation  process  results  in  an  award 
of  an  accreditation  certificate  or  a  denial  of  accredi- 
tation by  action  of  the  Executive  Committee.  All 
networks  and  managed  care  organizations  must 
score  100  percent  on  all  "shall"  standards  unless 
an  organization  requests  and  is  granted  a  variance 
from  a  particular  standard  under  the  following  con- 
ditions: (1)  a  contractual  variance  may  be  granted 
when  the  network  has  a  contract  with  a  payor  to 
provide  services  in  such  a  way  as  to  be  unable  to 
fulfill  the  requirements  of  the  standard;  or  (2)  a 
statutory  variance  may  be  granted  when  a  federal 
or  state  law  or  regulation  obligates  the  network 
to  provide  services  in  such  a  way  as  to  be  unable 
to  fulfill  the  requirements  of  the  standard.  URAC 
will  specify  variances  in  its  confirmation  letter 
that  accompanies  the  award  certificate.  URAC 
may  award  accreditation,  but  also  specify  in  the 
accompanying  letter  that  the  applicant  is  required 
to  provide  certain  follow  up  performance  documen- 
tation within  a  specified  period  of  time. 

Accreditation  status  may  be  revoked  prior 
to  expiration  under  certain  circumstances. 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  The  Commissioner  of  Health  issues  a 
certificate  of  authority  or  license  (in  the  case  of  a 
community  integrated  service  network)  to  operate 
within  the  state  of  Minnesota. 

Medicaid:  The  Department  of  Human  Services 
enters  into  a  contract  with  the  plan  to  provide 
covered  services  to  Medicaid  enrollees. 


Medicaid:  The  Ohio  Department  of  Human  Services 
enters  into  a  contract  with  the  plan  to  provide 
Medicaid  covered  services  to  Aid  lo  Dependent 
Children  and  Healthy  Start  eligibles  in  selected 
Ohio  counties. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  The  State  of  Pennsylvania  issues  an  initial 
Certificate  of  Authority  for  plans  to  provide  services 
in  specific  geographic  areas.  Continued  authority 
to  operate  within  the  state  is  based  on  compliance 
with  all  relevant  rules  and  regulations  as  monitored 
by  the  Department  of  Health  through  reports  and 
findings  from  the  independent  review  conducted 
by  the  Quality  Review  Organization. 

Following  a  plan  review  by  a  Quality  Review 
Organization,  the  Department  of  Health  issues 
a  final  report  indicating  areas  of  deficiencies  and 
required  follow-up  actions.  The  plan  submits  a 
quality  improvement  plan  and  short  term  work  plan 
covering  aeti\  ities,  problems  and  recommendations 
to  the  state  for  monitoring  purposes  [Invitation 
to  Qualify  as  an  Approved  HMO  Quality  Review 
Organization,  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health, 
Appendix  II,  External  Assessment  Process,  Responsi- 
bilities of  Review  Organizations]. 

Medicaid:  A  plan  is  approved  by  the  Department 
of  Public  Welfare  as  a  provider  of  care  to  Medicaid 
recipients. 


Ohio 

All  plans:  The  Department  of  Insurance  issues  a 
certificate  of  authority  for  a  plan  to  offer  services 
within  the  state. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


21 


I.F.  Release  of  Information 


Medicare 

Regulation:  The  release  of  information  with  regard 
to  reviews  and  application  materials  is  subject  to 
the  Freedom  of  Information  Act  unless  determined 
that  portions  of  the  material  should  be  considered 
privileged  [42  CFR  417.143.(h)]  and  417.404(b)(2). 

Federal  Qualification 

Regulation:  All  application  and  review  materials 
are  subject  to  the  Freedom  of  Information  Act 
unless  it  is  determined  that  portions  of  the  material 
should  be  considered  privileged  [42  CFR 
417.143(h)]. 

Medicaid 

The  release  of  information  with  regard  to  reviews 
and  applications  is  subject  to  the  Freedom  of  Infor- 
mation Act. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

The  Primary  Care  Effectiveness  Review  report  from 
the  BPHC  to  the  grantee  is  subject  to  the  Freedom 
of  Information  Act. 

NAIC 

In  general,  information  and  documents  provided 
by  health  maintenance  organizations  and  health 
carriers  to  the  insurance  commissioner  are 
available  to  the  public,  except  for  documents  and 
portions  of  documents  that  contain  proprietary  or 
confidential  information.  [NAIC,  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organization  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation 
Service  -  July  1995  ,  Section  27]  Section  9  of  the 


Health  Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act 
requires  an  HMO  to  file  an  annual  report  with  the 
insurance  commissioner.  Section  10  of  the  Health 
Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act  requires  an 
HMO  to  provide  its  enrollees  with  certain  specified 
information.  [NAIC,  Health  Maintenance  Organiza- 
tion Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July 
1995.]  In  addition,  numerous  provisions  of  the 
NAIC's  health  plan  standards  require  health  carriers 
to  disclose  information  to  the  public.  These  provi- 
sions include  the  following: 

A  health  carrier  must  include  a  summary 
of  its  quality  assessment  and  quality  improvement 
programs  in  marketing  materials.  It  must  also 
describe  them  in  its  certificate  of  coverage  or  hand- 
book provided  to  newly  enrolled  persons,  as  well 
as  a  statement  of  patient  rights  and  responsibilities 
with  respect  to  those  programs.  A  health  carrier 
must  also  make  available  annually  to  providers  and 
covered  persons  the  findings  from  its  quality  assess- 
ment and  improvement  programs,  as  well  as  infor- 
mation about  its  progress  in  meeting  internal  goals 
and  external  standards.  The  health  carrier  must 
also  make  available  for  review  by  the  public,  upon 
request  and  subject  to  a  reasonable  fee,  materials 
certified  to  meet  the  requirements  described  above, 
absent  any  proprietary  or  confidential  information. 
[NAIC,  Quality  Assessment  and  Improvement 
Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1996  , 
Section  8.] 

A  health  carrier  must  make  its  access  plans, 
absent  proprietary  information,  available  on  its 
business  premises  and  must  provide  them  to  any 
interested  party  upon  request.  [NAIC,  Draft 
Standards,  Managed  Care  Plan  Network  Adequacy 
Model  Act,  June  2,  1996,  Section  5B.] 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


22 


I.F.  Release  of  Information  (continued) 


A  Health  carrier  must  describe  its  grievance 
procedures  in  its  policy  or  evidence  of  coverage. 
[NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Health  Carrier  Grievance 
Procedure  Model  Act,  June  2,  1996,  Section  6B.] 

A  health  carrier  must  provide  in  its  certificate 
of  coverage  or  member  handbook  a  description 
of  its  utilization  review  procedures,  including  the 
procedures  for  obtaining  review  of  adverse  determi- 
nations, and  a  statement  of  the  rights  and  responsi- 
bilities of  covered  persons  with  respect  to  those 
procedures.  A  health  carrier  must  also  include  a 
summary  of  its  utilization  review  procedures  in 
materials  intended  for  prospective  covered  persons. 
[NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Utilization  Review  Model 
Act,  June  4,  1996,  Section  14A  and  14B.] 

JCAHO 

On  request,  the  Joint  Commission  publicly  releases 
the  following  information:  a  network's  current 
accreditation  status;  network-specific  performance 
data  consisting  of  standards-compliance  data  pro- 
duced from  triennial  surveys  conducted  in  1994  and 
thereafter  and  data  from  performance-measurement 
systems  (for  example,  the  IM  System)  when  an  inte- 
gral part  of  the  accreditation  process;  the  number 
of  type  I  recommendations  and  the  nature  of  these 
recommendations  for  specific  performance  areas 
or  topics,  for  network  surveyed  in  1994  or  later;  the 
network's  accreditation  history;  the  survey  date(s) 
after  the  network  has  been  notified;  the  network's 
status  in  the  accreditation  decision  process;  applica- 
ble standards  used  for  an  accreditation  survey;  net- 
work and  operational  components  included  in  the 
accreditation  survey;  the  applicable  standards  areas 
involved  in  a  Joint  Commission  complaint  review; 
the  number  and  nature  of  substantive  written  com- 
plaints filed  against  an  accredited  network  since  its 
last  triennial  survey  and  substantiated  by  the  Joint 
Commission;  and  whether  there  were  any  type  I 
recommendations  for  which  the  Joint  Commission 
had  no  or  insufficient  evidence  of  resolution  when 
a  network  withdrew  from  accreditation. 


The  Joint  Commission  reserves  the  right  lo 
publish  or  release  publicly  non-network-specific 
aggregate  performance  data.  The  Joint  Commission 
may  also  publish  or  release  publicly  network-spe- 
cific performance  information,  provided  that  the 
data  are  portrayed  within  a  context  that  includes 
accompanying  explanations  of  their  reliability, 
source,  and  comparisons  with  national  or  other 
statistically  valid  performance  data. 

The  Joint  Commission  provides  responsible 
federal,  state,  or  local  government  agencies  specific 
information  when  a  serious  situation  that  may  jeop- 
ardize the  safety  of  member  or  the  public  is  identi- 
fied during  a  network  survey.  The  Joint  Commission 
advises  the  network's  chief  executive  officer  and 
immediately  notifies,  by  telephone  and  in  writing, 
local,  state,  and  federal  authorities  with  jurisdiction. 

IMC  OA 

If  surveyors  identify  a  deficiency  in  an  organiza- 
tion's operations  that  may  adversely  affect  the 
health  or  safety  of  members  in  the  organization, 
NCQA  may  notify  applicable  regulatory  agencies 
[NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  1996, 
Section  VII,  p.  5]. 

NCQA  will  publish  the  organization's 
accreditation  status.  NCQA  will  not  release  survey 
reports  to  any  third  parties  unless  the  organization 
reviewed  gives  its  prior  written  authorization,  as 
otherwise  required  by  law  or  NCQAs  Administrative 
Policies  and  Procedures.  NCQA  publishes  aggregate 
data  obtained  as  a  result  of  accreditation  surveys  it 
has  conducted  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
1996,  Section  XIII,  p.  15]. 

URAC 

URAC  will  respond  to  public  requests  for  a  complete 
list  of  accredited  organizations  as  well  as  requests 
of  a  more  limited  nature,  such  as  the  accreditation 
status  of  a  particular  company. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


21 


I.F.  Release  of  Information  (continued) 


Minnesota 

All  plans:  All  government  data  collected  and  main- 
tained by  a  state  agency  is  considered  public  data, 
except  for  data  on  individuals,  which  is  considered 
private  and  confidential  [Minnesota  Statutes,  Chap- 
ter 13,  Minnesota  Government  Data  Practices  Act]. 

Contract  information  filed  with  the  commis- 
sioner is  confidential  [Minnesota  Statutes,  Chapter 
62D,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations,  62D.14, 
Subd.4(g)]. 

Filings  and  reports  are  public  documents 
[Minnesota  Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organizations,  62D.23]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  Information  collected  by  the  State  as 
part  of  the  certificate  of  authority  function  and 
related  monitoring  activities  is  subject  to  public 
disclosure  unless  otherwise  in  violation  of  patient 
confidentiality  provisions. 

Medicaid:  Information  provided  in  proposals  will 
be  held  in  confidence  and  will  not  be  revealed  or 
discussed  with  competitors  prior  to  the  selection 
of  proposals  for  further  consideration  [Request  for 
Proposals  for  Health  Maintenance  Organizations 
to  Provide  Medicaid  Covered  Services  to  the  Aid  to 
Dependent  Children  and  Healthy  Start  Eligible 
Populations  in  Ohio,  State  of  Ohio  Department  of 
Human  Services,  December  11,  1995,  V.IV  (D)  p.  14.] 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  Information  collected  by  the  State  as 
part  of  the  certificate  of  authority  function  and 
related  monitoring  activities  is  subject  to  public 
disclosure  provisions  except  as  otherwise  violating 
patient  confidentiality  provisions. 


Blue  Cross  .mil  Blue  Shield  Association 


21 


I.G.  Fees 


Medicare 

There  is  no  charge  to  enter  into  a  Medicare  con- 
tract. 

Federal  Qualification 

Regulation:  HCFA  determines  the  set  application 
fee  which  is  reasonably  related  to  the  cost  of 
qualifying  an  entity  and  may  vary  based  on  the 
type  of  application.  These  fees  are:  $3,100  for  a 
CMP  seeking  Federal  qualification;  $6,900  for  an 
HMO  seeking  expansion  of  service;  $18,400  for 
an  entity  seeking  qualification  as  an  HMO  or  quali- 
fication as  a  regional  component  of  an  HMO  (if  no 
site  visit,  $8,000  is  returned)  [42  CFR  417.143(c)]. 

Medicaid 

There  is  no  cost  to  enter  into  a  contractual  rela- 
tionship with  a  state  Medicaid  agency  to  provide 
services  to  Medicaid  recipients. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

The  Primary  Care  Effectiveness  Review  is  part 
of  the  BPHC  Quality  Management  System  and  is 
a  mandatory  administrative  process  between  the 
BPHC  and  the  grantee.  There  is  no  fee  incurred 
by  the  grantee  for  the  PCER. 

NAIC 

Section  24  of  the  Health  Maintenance  Organization 
Model  Act  establishes  fees  for  HMOs.  [NAIC,  Health 
Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act,  Model  Regu- 
lation Service  -  July  1995.]  The  draft  standards  do 
not  establish  fees. 


JCAHO 

Each  network  is  charged  a  base  fee  of  $10,175  which 
covers  the  survey  of  the  network  and  up  to  eight 
practitioner  sites.  Additionally,  a  fee  of  $2,390  per 
surveyor  per  day  is  charged  for  each  unaccredited 
component  selected  for  survey.  There  are  no 
charges  for  focused  surveys  conducted  to  monitor 
resolution  of  type  I  recommendations. 

NCQA 

The  application  fee  is  $7,500,  which  is  applied  to 
the  survey  fee.  The  survey  fee  is  based  on  the  size 
and  complexity  of  the  organization  reviewed.  Any 
cancellation,  postponement,  or  other  delay  or  termi- 
nation by  an  organization  may  result  in  forfeiture 
of  all  or  part  of  the  survey  fee  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  1996,  Section  III,  p.  2]. 

URAC 

The  basic  fee  for  a  network  applicant  with  one 
operating  site  is  $25,000,  including  the  initial  $250 
application  fee.  If  the  network's  utilization  manage- 
ment function  is  already  accredited  by  URAC,  a 
portion  of  this  fee  may  be  waived.  A  fee  of  $5,000 
is  added  for  each  additional  site.  Applicants  bear 
the  travel  costs  of  reviewers  for  site  visits  plus  a 
reviewer  per  diem  of  $1,800. 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  The  plan  is  subject  to  the  following  fees: 
filing  an  application  for  a  certificate  of  authority 
($1,500);  and  filing  an  amendment  to  a  certificate 
of  authority  ($90)  [Chapter  4685,  Department  of 
Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.2800,  Subp.i]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


25 


I.G.  Fees  (continued) 


Plans  are  charged  a  renewal  fee  of  $16,000 
plus  46  cents  per  person  enrolled  in  the  plan  on 
December  31  of  the  preceding  year  [Chapter  4685, 
Department  of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organi- 
zations, 4685.2800,  Subp.2]. 

Medicaid:  There  is  no  fee  for  entering  into  a 
contract  with  the  State  to  serve  Medicaid  recipients. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  There  is  a  $200  application  fee  for  a 
certificate  of  authority.  Additional  fees  are  charged 
for  expansion  of  service  area  ($25);  major  modifica- 
tions ($25);  filing  of  annual  report  ($25)  [Ohio 
Revised  Code,  1742.28(A)(B)(C)(D)]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  There  is  a  $1,200  fee  for  the  initial  filing 
of  an  application  to  the  Insurance  Department  for 
a  certificate  of  authority.  The  Health  Department 
has  no  certificate  of  authority  fees.  Costs  associated 
with  the  required  external  review  every  three  years 
are  borne  by  the  plan  directly  and  may  range  from 
$20,000-$30,000  depending  on  the  size  and  scope 
of  the  plan. 


Blue  (  ins-,  , iikI  lllue  Shield  Assm  uii urn 


2d 


Operations 


II.A.  Enrollment  Composition 


Medicare 

Statute:  The  plan  has  an  enrolled  membership 
at  least  one-half  of  which  consists  of  individuals 
who  are  not  entitled  to  benefits  under  Title  XVIII 
(Medicare)  or  XIX  (Medicaid)  [Section  1876(f)(1) 
of  the  Social  Security  Act]. 

Regulation:  No  more  than  50%  of  an  HMO's  or 
CMP's  enrollment  may  be  Medicare  beneficiaries 
and  Medicaid  recipients.  HCFA  may  waive  these 
requirements  under  certain  circumstances 
[42  CFR  417.413(d)]. 

Federal  Qualification 

No  standard  specified. 

Medicaid 

Regulation:  Medicare  and  Medicaid  recipients 
constitute  less  than  75%  of  the  total  enrollment 
of  the  plan  [42  CFR  434.26(a)]  except  as  waived 
under  certain  circumstances  [42  CFR  434.26(b)]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

The  Mission  of  the  BPHC  is  to  increase  access 
to  comprehensive  primary  and  preventive  health 
care  and  to  improve  the  health  status  of  under- 
served  and  vulnerable  populations.  BPHC  funded 
programs  target  low  income  rural,  urban,  and 
migrant  populations,  homeless  individuals  and 
families,  people  living  in  public  housing,  and 
individuals  with  HIV. 


NAIC 

The  draft  standards  do  not  place  direct  restrictions 
or  requirements  on  the  size  or  distribution  of  the 
plan's  enrollment.  However,  a  health  carrier  provid- 
ing a  managed  care  plan  must  maintain  a  network 
that  is  sufficient  in  numbers  and  types  of  providers 
to  assure  that  all  services  to  covered  persons  are 
accessible,  without  unreasonable  delay.  Sufficiency 
is  determined  by  reference  to  any  reasonable  crite- 
ria, including  the  criteria  contained  in  the  Managed 
Care  Plan  Network  Adequacy  Model  Act.  The  insur- 
ance commissioner  may  take  corrective  action  if  he 
determines  that  a  health  carrier  has  not  contracted 
with  enough  participating  providers  to  assure  that 
covered  persons  have  accessible  health  care  services 
in  a  geographic  area.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards, 
Managed  Care  Plan  Network  Adequacy  Model  Act, 
June  2,  1996,  Sections  5A  and  10]. 

The  HMO  model  regulation  and  the  Preferred 
Provider  Arrangements  Model  Act  also  contain 
provisions  addressing  the  adequacy  of  access  to 
services.  [NAIC,  Model  Regulation  to  Implement 
Rules  Regarding  Contracts  and  Services  of  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations,  Model  Regulation 
Service  -  January  1991,  Section  8;  NAIC,  Preferred 
Provider  Arrangements  Model  Act,  Model  Regula- 
tion Service  -  January  1987,  Section  4A(3). 

JCAHO 

No  standard  specified. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


27 


II. A.  Enrollment  composition  (continued) 


NCQA 

No  standard  specified. 
URAC 

No  standard  specified. 

Minnesota 

No  standard  specified. 

Ohio 

Medicaid:  Enrollment  opportunities  remain  open 
and  available  as  long  as  the  enrollment  maximums 
determined  by  the  ODHS  and  found  in  the  provider 
agreement  are  not  exceeded  [Ohio  Administrative 
Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-02(B)(l)(f)]. 

No  more  than  75%  of  enrollees  within  a  plan's 
contiguous  service  area  may  be  Medicare  and/or 
Medicaid  eligible  individuals  except  as  waived 
[Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26- 
02(B)(1)(g)]. 

Pennsylvania 

No  standard  specified. 


Blue  Crnss  mid  Blue  Shield  Vssoeiiition 


28 


I  LB.  Incentive  Arrangements 


Medicare 

Statute:  The  plan  does  not  operate  a  physician 
incentive  plan  unless  the  following  requirements 
are  met:  (1)  no  payment  is  made  directly  or  indi- 
rectly as  an  inducement  to  reduce  or  limit  medically 
necessary  services  to  a  specific  individual;  (2)  if  the 
plan  places  physicians  at  substantial  financial  risk, 
the  organization  provides  adequate  stop-loss  protec- 
tion for  physicians  and  conducts  periodic  surveys 
of  current  and  prior  members  to  determine  access 
to  services  and  the  degree  of  satisfaction  with  the 
quality  of  services;  and  (3)  the  organization  pro- 
vides HCFA  with  descriptive  information  regarding 
the  plan  [Section  1876(i)(8)  of  the  Social  Security 
Act]. 

Regulation:  On  or  after  January  1,  1997.  No  specific 
payment  of  any  kind  may  be  made  directly  or  indi- 
rectly under  the  incentive  plan  to  a  physician  or 
physician  group  as  an  inducement  to  reduce  or  limit 
covered  medically  necessary  services  covered  under 
the  organization's  contract  furnished  to  an  individ- 
ual enrollee.  Indirect  payments  include  offerings 
of  monetary  value  (such  as  stock  options  or  waivers 
of  debt)  measured  in  the  present  or  future  [42  CFR 
417.479(d)]. 

Organizations  that  operate  incentive  plans 
that  place  physicians  or  physician  groups  at  sub- 
stantial Financial  risk,  determined  to  be  25  percent 
of  potential  payments,  must  conduct  enrollee/disen- 
rollee  surveys  of  quality  and  access,  and  ensure  that 
all  physicians  and  physician  groups  at  substantial 
financial  risk  have  either  aggregate  or  per-patient 
stop-loss  protection  in  accordance  with  the  regula- 
tory requirements  [42  CFR  417.479  (g)(2)(i)-(ih)J. 


Policy:  The  plan  considers  the  effect  on  patient  care 
and  health  outcomes  of  physician  compensation 
arrangements  that  encourage  physicians  to  control 
use  of  services  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public 
Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November 
1989,  4201.2.C]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Regulation:  Plans  have  effective  procedures  to 
monitor  utilization  and  to  control  cost  of  basic  and 
supplemental  health  services  and  to  achieve  utiliza- 
tion goals,  which  may  include  mechanisms  such 
as  risk  sharing,  financial  incentives,  or  other  provi- 
sions agreed  to  by  providers  [42  CFR  417.103(b)]. 

Policy:  Plans  consider  the  effect  on  patient  care 
and  health  outcomes  of  physician  compensation 
arrangements  that  encourage  physicians  to  control 
use  of  services  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public 
Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November 
1989,  4201.2.C] 

Medicaid 

Statute:  The  plan  does  not  operate  a  physician 
incentive  plan  unless  the  following  requirements 
are  met:  (1)  no  payment  is  made  directly  or  indi- 
rectly as  an  inducement  to  reduce  or  limit  medically 
necessary  services  to  a  specific  individual;  (2)  if  the 
plan  places  physicians  at  substantial  financial  risk, 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


29 


II. B.  Incentive  Arrangements  (continued) 


the  organization  provides  adequate  stop-loss  protec- 
tions for  physicians  and  conducts  periodic  surveys 
of  current  and  prior  members  to  determine  access 
to  services  and  the  degree  of  satisfaction  with 
the  quality  of  services;  and  (3)  the  organization 
provides  the  state  Medicaid  agency  with  descriptive 
information  regarding  the  plan  [Sections 
1903(m)(2)(A)(x)  and  1876(i)(8)  of  the  Social 
Security  Act]. 

Regulation:  On  or  after  January  1,  1997.  No  specific 
pa\  ment  of  any  kind  may  be  made  directly  or  indi- 
rectly under  the  incentive  plan  to  a  physician  or 
physician  group  as  an  inducement  to  reduce  or  limit 
covered  medically  necessary  services  covered  under 
the  organization's  contract  furnished  to  an  individ- 
ual enrollee.  Indirect  payments  include  offering  of 
monetary  value  (such  as  stock  options  or  waivers 
of  debt)  measured  in  the  present  and  future 
[42  CFR  417.479(d)]. 

Organizations  that  operate  incentive  plans 
that  place  physicians  or  physician  groups  at  sub- 
stantial financial  risk,  determined  to  be  25  percent 
of  potential  payments,  must  conduct  enrollee/disen- 
rollee  surveys  of  quality  and  access,  and  ensure  that 
ail  physicians  and  physician  groups  at  substantial 
financial  risk  have  either  aggregate  or  per-patient 
slop-loss  protection  in  accordance  with  the  regula- 
tory requirements  [42  CFR  417.479  (g)(2)(i)-(iii)]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

No  standard  specified. 

NAIC 

A  health  carrier  may  not  offer  an  inducement  under 
a  managed  care  plan  for  a  provider  to  furnish  less 
than  medically  necessary  services  to  a  covered  per- 
son. A  health  carrier  may  not  prohibit  a  provider 
from  discussing  treatment  options  with  covered 


persons,  irrespective  of  the  health  carrier's  policy 
with  respect  to  such  options,  or  from  advocating 
on  behalf  of  covered  persons  within  the  carrier's 
utilization  review  and  grievance  processes.  [NAIC, 
Draft  Standards,  Managed  Care  Plan  Network  Ade- 
quacy Model  Act  -  June  2,  1996,  Section  61  and  6J]. 

Compensation  to  persons  providing  utilization 
review  services  for  a  health  carrier  cannot  contain 
any  incentives,  either  direct  or  indirect,  for  these 
persons  to  make  inappropriate  review  decisions. 
Compensation  to  such  persons  may  not  be  based, 
directly  or  indirectly,  on  the  quantity  or  type  of 
adverse  determinations  rendered.  [NAIC,  Draft  Stan- 
dards, Utilization  Review  Model  Act,  June  4,  1996, 
Section  8J]. 

The  Preferred  Provider  Arrangements  Model 
Act  prohibits  arrangements  that  "unfairly  deny 
health  benefits  for  medically  necessary  covered 
services."  [NAIC,  Preferred  Provider  Arrangements 
Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  January 
1987,  Section  4B.] 

JCAHO 

No  standard  specified. 
IMCQA 

No  standard  specified. 
URAC 

Written  service  agreements  with  participating 
hospitals,  physicians  and  other  health  care 
providers  must  provide  definitions  for  all  terms 
used  in  the  agreement  that  have  specific  insurance, 
managed  care,  member  payment,  and  provider 
payment  meanings.  The  agreements  must  also 
describe  the  provider  reimbursement  methodology 
and  fees  {National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  NM  17.0,  17.1  and  17.8). 


Blue  1  i  mss  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


II.B.  Incentive  Arrangements  (continued) 


Minnesota 

All  plans:  Physician  reimbursement  arrangements 
are  identified  as  a  component  for  review  under  the 
ongoing  quality  evaluation  program  [Chapter  4685, 
Department  of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organi- 
zations, 4685.1115,  Subp.l]. 

Incentive  payments  to  providers  of  services 
is  expressly  permitted  [Minnesota  Statutes,  Section 
62D.12,  Subd.9]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  The  state  considers  the  method  of 
provider  reimbursement,  including  any  risk-sharing 
or  other  incentive  arrangements,  in  accessing  the 
potential  of  such  policies  and  arrangements  to 
adversely  affect  the  accessibility  and/or  quality 
of  health  care  services  provided  to  enrollees 
[Procedural,  Ohio  Department  of  Health  (ODH)]. 

The  Plan's  quality  assurance  program  is 
expected  to  assure  that  needed  and  appropriate 
health  care  is  not  being  withheld  or  delayed  for 
any  reason,  including  because  of  any  financial 
incentives/disincentives  to  its  providers 
[Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Pennsylvania 

No  standard  specified. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


II.C.  Network  Adequacy 


Medicare 

Statute:  Services  are  available  and  accessible  to 
each  enrollee  within  the  areas  served  by  the  plan 
[Section  1876(c)(4)(A)  of  the  Social  Security  Act]. 

Regulation:  Services  are  considered  available  if 
the  sources  are  located  within  the  plan's  geographic 
area  or  if  it  is  common  practice  to  refer  patients 
to  sources  outside  that  geographic  area  [42  CFR 
417.414(b)(2)]. 

There  are  written  agreements  executed 
between  the  plan  and  another  entity  in  which  the 
other  entity  agrees  to  furnish  specified  services  to 
Medicare  enrollees  of  the  plan  [42  CFR  417.401]. 

The  plan  ensures  that  the  required  services, 
additional  services,  and  any  other  supplemental 
services  for  which  the  Medicare  enrollee  has 
contracted  are  available  [42  CFR  417.416(a)]. 

Hospitals,  SNFs,  home  health  agencies,  com- 
prehensive outpatient  rehabilitation  facilities,  and 
prov  iders  of  outpatient  physical  therapy  or  speech 
pathology  services  meet  applicable  conditions  of 
participation  in  Medicare.  Suppliers  meet  conditions 
of  coverage  or  conditions  for  certification  of  their 
services  [42  CFR  417.416(b)(l)(2)]. 

Policy:  There  is  a  system  in  place  for  monitoring 
the  need  for  additional  providers/suppliers  and  a 
system  for  recruitment  [Medicare  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organization/Competitive  Medical  Plan 
Manual,  Transmittal  No.  10,  April  1992,  2303.5]. 

The  plan  provides,  either  directly  or  through 
arrangements,  the  same  Medicare  services  as  are 
available  to  other  Medicare  beneficiaries  who  live  in 
the  same  geographic  area  but  are  not  enrolled  in  the 
plan.  If  a  Medicare  covered  service  is  not  procurable 
in  the  area  because  a  facility  or  specialist  is  not 


available,  the  plan  is  required  to  arrange  for  these 
services  outside  the  service  area  [Medicare  Health 
Maintenance  Organization/Competitive  Medical 
Plan  Manual,  Transmittal  No.  10,  April  1992,  2303]. 

Provider/supplier  networks  are  sufficient  to 
deliver  inpatient  and  outpatient  primary  and  spe- 
cialty services  to  current  and  expected  Medicare 
members  in  the  plan  [Medicare  Health  Maintenance 
Organization/Competitive  Medical  Plan  Manual, 
Transmittal  No.  10,  April  1992,  2303]. 

The  provider/supplier  network  for  Medicare 
enrollees  is  from  the  same  network  a  plan  uses 
for  commercial  members.  However,  the  Medicare 
network  may  be  a  subset  of  a  large  commercial 
network  as  long  as  there  are  not  Medicare  only 
providers/suppliers  [Medicare  Health  Maintenance 
Organization/Competitive  Medical  Plan  Manual, 
Transmittal  No.  10,  April  1992,  2303.1.B]. 

Providers/suppliers  are  located  throughout 
the  geographic  service  area  [Medicare  Health  Main- 
tenance Organization/Competitive  Medical  Plan 
Manual,  Transmittal  No.  10,  April  1992,  2303.1]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Statute:  Basic  health  services  and  contracted 
services  are  available  within  the  service  area.  Basic 
services  which  are  not  primary  care  or  emergency 
health  care  services  may  be  located  outside  the 
service  area  of  non-metropolitan  plans  if  there 
are  insufficient  providers  within  the  service  area 
[Title  XIII  of  the  Public  Health  Service  Act,  Section 
1301(b)(4)]. 

Regulation:  Same  as  above  statute  [42  CFR 
417.106(b)(l)(2)]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  \ssuci.iliiin 


52 


II.C.  Network  Adequacy  (continued) 


Staffing  patterns  of  the  plan  are  within 
generally  accepted  norms  for  meeting  the  projected 
enrollment  needs  [42  CFR  417.106(b)(3)(i)]. 

The  plan  assures  that  its  affiliated  providers 
meet  the  following  conditions:  (1)  in  the  case  of 
hospitals,  are  either  accredited  by  the  JCAHO,  or 
certified  by  Medicare;  (2)  in  the  case  of  laboratories, 
are  either  CLIA-exempt,  or  have  in  effect  a  valid 
certificate  of  one  of  the  following  types:  registration 
certificate,  certificate  of  waiver,  certificate  of  accred- 
itation; (3)  in  the  case  of  other  affiliated  institutional 
providers,  are  certified  for  participation  in  Medicare 
and  Medicaid  [42  CFR  417.124(h)]. 

Policy:  Staffing  patterns  are  within  generally 
accepted  norms  for  meeting  projected  membership 
needs  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Main- 
tenance Organizations  (Title  15,  Public  Health  Ser- 
vice Act),  Transmittal  No.  2,  April  1992,  4005]. 

Staffing  patterns  reflect  the  utilization  and 
needs  of  special  groups  of  members  [Manual  for 
Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance  Organiza- 
tions (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmit- 
tal No.  2,  April  1992,  4005.4]. 

Monitoring  the  availability  and  accessibility 
of  care  can  be  done  through  the  credentialing 
process  for  physicians  [Manual  for  Federally  Quali- 
fied Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13, 
Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  2,  April 
1992,  4005.8]. 

Medicaid 

Regulation:  The  plan  makes  the  services  it  provides 
to  its  Medicaid  enrollees  as  accessible  to  them  (in 
terms  of  timeliness,  amount,  duration  and  scope) 
as  those  services  are  to  non-enrolled  Medicaid 
recipients  within  the  area  served  by  the  HMO  [42 
CFR  434.20(b)(2)]. 

The  plan  provides  assurances  that  it  can 
furnish  the  health  services  required  by  enrolled 
recipients  effectively  [42  CFR  434.50(b)]. 


Guidelines:  Standards/guidelines  used  by  the 
plan  focus  on  the  process  and  outcomes  of  health 
care  delivery,  as  well  as  access  to  care  [A  Health 
Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for  Medicaid 
Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau, 
Health  Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1995, 
Standard  II.C.5]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Policy:  The  number  and  mix  of  clinical  and 
support  staff  are  appropriate  to  provide  comprehen- 
sive health  care  services  for  all  sites  and  serv  ices. 
[PCER  Clinical  Protocol,  III.B.8.] 

Guidelines:  There  should  be  a  mix  of  clinical  and 
support  staff  which  assures  a  smooth  patient  flow, 
reasonable  waiting  times  for  patients,  proper  entry 
of  data  into  medical  records  and  conduct  of  proce- 
dures in  a  timely  fashion. 

NAIC 

A  health  carrier  must  maintain  a  network  that  is 
sufficient  in  numbers  and  types  of  providers  to 
assure  that  all  services  to  covered  persons  will  be 
accessible  without  unreasonable  delay.  [NAIC,  Draft 
Standards,  Managed  Care  Plan  Network  Adequacy 
Model  Act,  June  2,  1996,  Section  5A]. 

The  Preferred  Provider  Arrangements  Model 
Act  permits  a  health  insurer  to  place  reasonable 
limits  on  the  number  and  classes  of  preferred 
providers  that  satisfy  the  insurer's  standards,  but 
a  health  insurer  must  not  discriminate  against 
providers  on  any  of  a  number  of  specified  grounds, 
and  must  ensure  that  selection  of  preferred 
providers  is  based  primarily  on  the  cost  and 
availability  of  covered  services  and  the  quality 
of  services  performed  by  the  providers.  [NAIC, 
Preferred  Provider  Arrangements  Model  Act,  Model 
Regulation  Service  -  January,  1987,  Section  6] 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


[I.C.  Network  Adequacy  (continued) 


JCAHO 

Health  care  services  provided  directly  or  by 
arrangement  are  appropriate  in  scope  to  meet  the 
health  care  needs  of  the  population  served  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Continuum  of  Care,  CC.1.1]. 

Health  care  services  provided  directly  or 
by  arrangement  are  appropriate  to  the  health  care 
needs,  as  influenced  by  sociocultural  characteristics 
of  the  population  served  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Continuum 
of  Care,  CC.1.2]. 

Health  care  services  provided  directly  or  by 
arrangement  are  appropriate  to  the  network's  mis- 
sion [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health 
Care  Networks,  Continuum  of  Care,  CC.1.3]. 

Health  care  services  provided  directly  or 
by  arrangement  are  appropriate  to  the  network's 
contractual  obligations  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Continuum 
of  Care,  CC.1.4]. 

The  network  determines  and  provides  the 
appropriate  health  care  disciplines  and  specialists 
to  meet  member  health  care  needs  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Continuum  of  Care,  CC.3]. 

The  network  defines  the  numbers  and  qualifi- 
cations of  personnel,  clinical  staff,  and  licensed 
independent  practitioners  needed  to  provide  mem- 
ber services  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Management  of  Human 
Resources,  HR.I]. 

The  network  has  sufficient  personnel,  clinical 
staff',  and  licensed  independent  practitioners  to  pro- 
vide services  required  to  meet  member  needs  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works, Management  of  Human  Resources,  HR.1.2]. 

Member  health  care  services  provided 
throughout  the  network  are  readily  available, 
accessihle,  and  appropriate  to  the  scope  and  levels 


of  care  required  by  the  members  population(s) 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Leadership,  LD.2.4.2]. 

The  leaders  allocate  adequate  resources 
to  meet  member  health  care  needs  throughout  the 
network  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Leadership,  LD.2.4.6]. 

The  network  accommodates  the  geographic 
distribution  of  its  members  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Leadership, 
LD.2.4.6. 1]. 

IMCQA 

Managed  care  organizations  should  develop  stan- 
dards for  the  availability  of  primary  care  providers 
and  assess  performance  against  those  standards 
[NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality  Man- 
agement and  Improvement,  1996,  01  7.0]. 

URAC 

The  Network  shall  establish  and  implement  written 
criteria  for  provider  contracting  that  address  the 
availability  and  accessibility  needs  of  the  Network 
for  these  types  of  providers  (National  Network 
Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  NM  1.3,  2.3 
and  3.3). 

The  Network  shall  define  its  service  area, 
specify  the  scope  of  services  to  be  provided  by  the 
Network,  and  implement  a  mechanism  to  commu- 
nicate the  availability  of  Network  providers  to 
contracting  payors,  members,  or  groups  (National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996, 
NM  5.0). 

The  Network  shall,  when  the  Network  is  a 
health  plan,  establish  and  implement  accessibility 
standards  for:  hospital  services  including  24  hour 
emergency  department  services;  primary  care  and 
OB/GYN  physician  services;  specialty  care  physician 
services;  and  mental  health  and  substance  abuse 
inpatient  and  outpatient  services  (National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996, 
NM  6.0 -NM  6.4). 


Blue  '  loss  .mil  Blue  Shield  Association 


-.i 


II.C.  Network  Adequacy  (continued) 


The  Network  should,  when  the  Network  is  a 
health  plan,  establish  and  implement  accessibility 
standards  for:  home  health,  allied  health,  pharmacy 
and  DME  services  {National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  NM  7.0). 

The  Network  shall,  when  the  Network  is  a 
health  plan,  establish  and  implement  accessibility 
standards  that  address  the  number  of  providers 
by  type  (National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  NM  8.1). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  Health  care  services  are  provided  in  such 
a  manner  as  to  enhance  and  assure  both  availability 
and  accessibility  of  adequate  personnel  and  facilities 
[Minnesota  Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organizations,  62D.04,  Subd.l(a)]. 

The  plan  provides  reasonable  provisions  for 
emergency  and  out-of-area  health  care  services 
[Minnesota  Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organizations,  62D.04,  Subd.l(d)]. 

If  the  Department  of  Health  determines 
that  there  are  not  enough  providers  to  assure  that 
enrollees  have  accessible  health  care  services,  cor- 
rective action  may  be  taken  requiring  the  plan  to: 

•  make  payment  to  nonparticipating  providers; 

•  discontinue  accepting  new  enrollees;  and 

•  reduce  its  geographic  service  area  [Minnesota 
Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations,  62D.121  Subp.7]. 

The  plan  has  available,  either  directly  or 
through  arrangement,  appropriate  and  sufficient 
personnel,  physical  resources  and  equipment  to 
meet  the  projected  needs  of  its  enrollees  for  covered 
health  care  services  [Chapter  4685,  Department 
of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1010,  Subp.2]. 


The  plan  develops  and  implements  written 
standards  or  guidelines  which  address  the  assess- 
ment of  provider  capacity  to  provide  timely  access 
to  health  care  services  [Chapter  4685,  Department 
of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1010,  Subp.2]. 

The  plan  provides  or  contracts  with  a  suffi- 
cient number  of  primary  care  physicians  to  meet 
the  projected  needs  of  its  enrollees  [Chapter  4685, 
Department  of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organi- 
zations, 4685.1010,  Subp.2. A. (2)]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  contracts  with  providers  as 
necessary  to  meet  the  health  service  needs  of  its 
enrollees  [Minnesota  Department  of  Human 
Services  Rules,  9500.1460  Subp.6]. 

The  plan  makes  services  at  least  as  accessible 
to  enrollees  as  those  services  are  to  non-Medicaid 
enrollees  within  the  plan's  service  areas,  in  terms 
of  timeliness,  amount,  duration  and  scope  [Request 
for  Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/General  Assis- 
tance Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota 
Senior  Health  Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan 
Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  A  plan  has  arrangements  to  assure 
that  its  enrollees  have  reliable  access  to  qualified 
providers  in  those  specialties  which  are  available 
within  the  service  area  and  which  are  necessary  to 
provide  the  health  services  described  in  its  evidence 
of  coverage  [Ohio  Revised  Code,  1742.04(B)(2)]. 

Arrangements  are  made  for  short-term  emer- 
gencies within  the  service  area,  24  hours  per  day,  7 
days  a  week,  and  adequate  coverage  for  out-of-area 
emergency  [Ohio  Revised  Code,  1742.04(B)(3)]. 

The  plan  establishes  and  maintains  an 
adequate  full-time  equivalent  physician-to-enrollee 
ratio  depending  upon  the  population  enrolled,  their 
medical  needs  and  location  of  service  areas 
[Procedural,  (ODH)]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


55 


I I.C.  Network  Adequacy  (continued) 


Medicaid:  All  covered  services  required  on  an 
emergency  basis  are  available  24  hours  a  day,  7 
days  a  week  in  the  enrollee's  county  of  residence, 
as  available  [Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter 
5101:5-26-05  (A)  (5)  and  SFY  1997  RFP,  section 
VI  (F),  pg.  50] 

The  plan  must  have  a  contract  with  obstetri- 
cians, gynecologists,  pediatricians,  dentists, 
pharmacists,  vision  care  providers,  other  specialists 
and  at  least  one  hospital  located  in  the  county 
of  operation  [Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter 
5101:5-26-05(A)(5)]. 

A  plan's  primary  care  provider  network 
ensures  availability  and  access  to  a  minimum 
of  25%  of  all  eligible  individuals  in  a  mandatory 
county  and  20%  of  all  eligible  individuals  in  a 
voluntary  county  [Request  for  Proposals  for  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  to  Provide  Medicaid 
Covered  Services  to  the  Aid  to  Dependent  Children 
and  Healthy  Start  Eligible  Populations  in  Ohio, 
State  of  Ohio  Department  of  Human  Services, 
May  19,  1994,  V.I.C,  p.  15]. 

There  is  a  minimum  ratio  of  one  full-time 
equivalent  primary  care  physician  for  each  2000 
Medicaid  enrollees  to  be  served  [Request  for  Propos- 
als for  Health  Maintenance  Organizations  to  Provide 
Medicaid  Covered  Services  to  the  Aid  to  Dependent 
Children  and  Healthy  Start  Eligible  Populations  in 
Ohio,  State  of  Ohio  Department  of  Human  Services, 
May  19,  1994,  V.I.C.2,  p.  16]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  The  plan  demonstrates  the  ability  to 
assure  both  availability  and  accessibility  of  adequate 
personnel  and  facilities  in  a  manner  enhancing 
availability,  accessibility  and  continuity  of  service 
[State  of  Pennsylvania,  Health  Maintenance 
Organization  Act,  Title  40,  Section  1555.1(b)(l)(i)]. 

A  plan  has  and  maintains  adequate  arrange- 
ments to  provide  the  health  services  contracted  for 
by  its  enrollees  [28  Pa.  Code,  Section  9.75(a)]. 


The  plan  has  at  least  the  equivalent  of  one 
full-time  primary  care  physician  per  1600  enrollees 
and  an  overall  ratio  for  all  physicians  serving  the 
plan  of  at  least  the  equivalent  of  one  full-time  physi- 
cian per  1200  enrollees.  For  the  purposes  of  these 
calculations,  a  physician  extender  counts  as  1/2 
physician  [28  Pa.  Code,  Section  9.76(a)]. 

There  may  not  be  more  than  2  physician 
extenders  per  primary  care  physician  [28  Pa.  Code, 
Section  9.76(a)(4)(iii)]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  at  all  times  has  satis- 
factory written  agreements  with  a  sufficient  number 
of  providers  in  and  adjacent  to  the  service  area 
to  ensure  enrollee  access  to  all  medically  necessary 
services  based  on  standards  established  by  the 
state  [Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public  Welfare, 
Operating  Agreement,  Section  9,  Provider  Enroll- 
ment and  Handbooks,  9.1]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


II.D.  Access/Timeliness  of  Service 


Medicare 

Statute:  Serv  ices  are  available  and  accessible  within 
the  service  area  of  the  organization  with  reasonable 
promptness,  24  hours  a  day  and  7  days  a  week 
[Section  1876(c)(4)(A)  of  the  Social  Security  Act]. 

The  plan  conducts  periodic  surv  eys  of  current 
and  past  enrollees  to  determine  the  degree  of  access 
to  sen  ices  [Section  1876 (i) (8) (A)  (if) (I I)  of  the  Social 
Security  Act]. 

Regulation:  The  plan  ensures  that  the  required 
services  and  any  other  services  for  which  Medicare 
enrollees  have  contracted  are  accessible,  with  rea- 
sonable promptness,  to  the  enrollee  with  respect  to 
geographic  location,  hours  of  operation,  and  provi- 
sion of  after-hours  services  [42  CFR  417.416(e)]. 

Medically  necessary  emergency  services 
are  available  24  hours  a  day,  7  days  a  week  [42 
CFR  417.416(e)(1)]. 

Policy:  Services  are  considered  accessible  if  they 
reflect  usual  practice  and  travel  arrangements  in 
the  local  areas.  Generally,  hospital  and  primary 
care  physician  services  are  within  30  minute  travel 
time  from  the  beneficiary's  residence  [Medicare 
Health  Maintenance  Organization/Competitive  Med- 
ical Plan  Manual,  Transmittal  No.  10,  April  1992, 
2303.1.  A]. 

Hours  of  operation  for  health  services  are 
convenient  to  the  population  and  must  reflect 
patterns  of  care  in  the  geographic  area  [Medicare 
Health  Maintenance  Organization/Competitive 
Medical  Plan  Manual,  Transmittal  No.  10,  April 
1992,  2303.2]. 


The  plan  has  systems  in  place  to  collect  data 
and  evaluate  the  availability  and  accessibility  of 
services  with  respect  to: 

•  waiting  times  to  obtain  appointments  for  routine 
scheduled  and  urgent  care; 

•  waiting  times  to  receive  services  at  physician 
offices  and  clinical  and  diagnostic  facilities; 

•  procedures  for  receiving  and  analyzing  member 
complaints. 

•  telephone  access  to  the  plan  and  primary  care 
physician  for  routine  and  urgent  care,  as  well  as 
in  emergencies,  both  during  and  after  hours; 

•  inappropriate  use  of  emergency  services  as  an 
indicator  of  lack  of  availability  and  accessibility 
of  plan  services; 

•  number  of  requests,  as  well  as  reason  for 
requests,  to  change  primary  care  physicians; 

•  number  of  physician  requests  to  close  their 
practice  to  new  patients; 

•  physician  back-up  and  on-call  arrangements 
for  primary  care  physicians:  and 

•  volume  of  out-of-plan  referrals  by  specialty 
and  service  [Medicare  Health  Maintenance 
Organization/Competitive  Medical  Plan  Manual, 
Transmittal  No.  10,  April  1992,  2303.4]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Statute:  Services  are  available  and  accessible  within 
the  service  area  of  the  organization  with  reasonable 
promptness,  24  hours  a  day  and  7  days  a  week 
[Title  XIII  of  the  Public  Health  Service  Act,  Section 
1301(b)(4)]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


57 


II. D.  Access/Timeliness  of  Service  (continued) 


Regulation:  Geographic  location,  hours  of  opera- 
tion, and  arrangement  for  after-hours  services 
assure  reasonable  promptness  of  service  [42  CFR 
417.106(b)(3)(h)]. 

Medically  necessary  emergency  services  are 
available  24  hours  a  day,  7  days  a  week  [42  CFR 
417.106(b)(3)(h)].  A  plan  does  not  impose  copay- 
ment  charges  that  exceed  50%  of  the  total  cost  of 
providing  any  single  service  to  its  enrollees,  nor 
in  the  aggregate  more  than  20%  of  the  total  cost 
of  providing  all  basic  health  services  [42  CFR 
417.104(a)(4)(i)]. 

To  ensure  that  copayments  are  not  a  barrier 
to  the  utilization  of  health  services  or  enrollment 
in  the  plan,  the  plan  does  not  charge  copayments 
that  will  exceed  200%  of  the  total  annual  premium 
cost  of  an  option  with  no  copayments  in  any  given 
year  [42  CFR  417.104(a)(4)(h)]. 

Policy:  Services  are  considered  accessible  if  they 
reflect  usual  practice  and  travel  arrangements  in 
the  local  areas.  Generally,  hospital  and  primary 
care  physician  services  must  be  within  30  minute 
travel  time  for  members  [Manual  for  Federally 
Qualified  Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title 
13,  Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  2, 
April  1992,  4005.1. A]. 

Hours  of  operation  for  health  services  are 
convenient  to  the  population  and  must  reflect 
patterns  of  care  in  the  geographic  area  [Manual 
for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  2,  April  1992,  4005.2]. 

The  plan  has  systems  in  place  to  collect 
data  and  evaluate  the  availability  and  accessibility 
of  services  with  respect  to: 

•  waiting  times  to  obtain  appointments  for  routine 
scheduled  and  urgent  care; 

•  waiting  times  to  receive  services  at  physician 
offices  and  clinical  and  diagnostic  facilities; 

•  procedures  for  receiving  and  analyzing  member 
complaints. 


•  telephone  access  to  the  plan  and  primary  care 
physician  for  routine  and  urgent  care,  as  well  as 
in  emergencies,  both  during  and  after  hours; 

•  inappropriate  use  of  emergency  services  as  an 
indicator  of  lack  of  availability  and  accessibility 
of  plan  services; 

•  number  of  requests,  as  well  as  reason  for 
requests,  to  change  primary  care  physicians; 

•  number  of  physician  requests  to  close  their 
practice  to  new  patients; 

•  physician  back-up  and  on-call  arrangements 
for  primary  care  physicians;  and 

•  volume  of  out-of-plan  referrals  by  specialty 
and  service  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13, 
Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  2, 
April  1992,  4005.7]. 

Medicaid 

Regulation:  All  covered  emergency  medical  ser- 
vices are  provided  directly  or  through  arrangement 
24  hours  a  day,  7  days  a  week  [42  CFR  434.30(a)]. 

The  plan  makes  the  services  it  provides  to 
its  Medicaid  enrollees  as  accessible  to  them  (in 
terms  of  timeliness,  amount,  duration  and  scope) 
as  those  services  are  to  nonenrolled  Medicaid 
recipients  within  the  area  served  by  the  HMO 
[42  CFR  434.20(b)(2)]. 

Health  services  are  furnished  as  promptly 
as  is  appropriate  [42  CFR  434.52(a)]. 

Guidelines:  The  plan  promotes  accessibility  of 
services  by:  identifying  points  of  access  to  primary 
care,  specialty  care  and  hospital  services;  providing 
information  to  members  about  how  to  obtain  regu- 
lar, emergency  and  after-hours  care;  and  providing 
information  on  how  to  obtain  the  names,  qualifica- 
tions and  titles  of  providers  [A  Health  Care  Quality 
improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care: 
A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care 
Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard 
X.G,  p.  26]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


58 


II.D.  Access/Timeliness  of  Service  (continued) 


The  plan  establishes  standards  for  access 
(e.g.,  to  routine,  urgent  and  emergency  care;  tele- 
phone appointments;  advice;  and  member  service 
lines)  and  assesses  performance  against  these  stan- 
dards [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  System 
for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States, 
Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Adminis- 
tration, July  6,  1995,  Standard  XI,  p.  28]. 

It  is  recommended  that  attention  be  paid 
to  involving  Medicaid  recipients  in  the  oversight 
process  in  ways  which  give  them  a  stronger  voice 
in  insuring  the  availability,  accessibility,  and  accept- 
ability of  the  health  care  services  they  receive.  They 
should  have  a  proactive  role  as  advocates  for  quality 
medical  care  under  Medicaid,  and  their  views 
should  be  sought  on  issues  central  to  the  improve- 
ment of  quality  of  care  oversight,  such  as  how  qual- 
ity is  measured  and  effecting  desired  changes  in  the 
provision  of  medical  care  [A  Health  Care  Quality 
Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care: 
A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care 
Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Chapter 
l.III.D,  page  11]. 

1115  Waiver  Terms  and  Conditions:  Participant 
access  standards  include:  1)  generally  no  more  than 
30  miles  or  30  minutes  for  all  enrollees  from  resi- 
dence or  place  of  employment  to  primary  care  and 
common  specialty  services;  and  2)  appointment 
waiting  times  will  not  exceed  50  days  from  date  of 
a  patient's  request  for  routine  care  or  48  hours  for 
urgent  care. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Clinical  Policies  and  Procedures:  This  section 
addresses  the  formal  policies  and  procedures 
which  define  and  guide  the  operational  activities 
of  the  Center.  It  is  expected  that  these  are  well 
documented  and  in  sufficient  detail  to  permit  both 
staff  and  patients,  as  appropriate,  to  understand 
the  operations  of  the  clinic.  [PCER  Clinical  Protocol 
V.A.1...V.A.6.] 


Center  Operation  Policies:  It  is  expected  that  there 
be  formal  policies  and  procedures  (often  referred  to 
by  the  National  Health  Service  Corps  as  principles 
or  practice)  which  define  the  day  to  day  operation 
of  the  BPHC  fund  organization. 

Principles  of  practice  (or  operating  policies 
and  procedures)  include  the  following:  hours  of 
operation  including  a  3  hour  session  outside  of 
traditional  working  hours:  policies  and  procedures 
for  afterhours  and  weekend  clinical  coverage  for 
medical  and  dental  services;  emergency  medical 
and  dental  services  triage;  walk-ins  and  telephone 
triage;  Scope  of  practice  mechanisms  which  assure 
continuity  of  care:  elements  of  care  are  available 
to  all  age  groups  and  all  special  populations 
(e.g.  homeless,  elderly,  etc.);  patient  privacy  during 
examination,  treatment  and  consultation;  universal 
precautions  routinely  observed  in  all  phases  of 
service  delivery;  protocols  which  allow  for  tracking 
patients  who  require  follow-up  of  specialty  referrals, 
hospitalization,  X-Ray,  and  laboratory  results; 
reporting  injuries  and  dealing  with  infection 
control  handling  hazardous  waste. 

Section  340  programs  principles  of  practice 
include  these  additional  expectations:  a  safe  physi- 
cal setting  in  patient  treatment  centers  and  shelter, 
availability  of  services  on  a  24-hour,  7  day  a  week 
basis;  appropriate  intake,  medical,  and  case  man- 
agement records  documentation;  staff  experienced 
and  trained  in  the  delivery  of  primary  care,  mental 
health,  and  drug  and  alcohol  abuse  services;  on-site 
first-aid  services  and  backup  medical  and  psychi- 
atric services;  and  where  appropriate,  supportive 
services  including  shower  facilities,  availability 
of  clean  clothing,  and  appropriate  food.  [PCER 
Clinical  Protocol  III.A.l] 

Guidance:  The  Center  should  have  developed  writ- 
ten documents  which  addresses  all  of  the  subtopics 
enumerated  in  this  question.  This  documentation 
may  be  called  a  Principles  of  Practice,  or  the  items 
may  be  embodied  in  the  Center's  operating  policies 
and  procedures. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


59 


II.D.  Access/Timeliness  of  Service  (continued) 


NAIC 

A  health  carrier  must  maintain  a  network  that  is 
sufficient  in  numbers  and  types  of  providers  to 
assure  that  all  services  to  covered  persons  are 
accessible  without  unreasonable  delay.  Covered 
persons  must  have  access  twenty-four  (24)  hours 
per  day,  seven  (7)  days  per  week,  to  emergency 
services.  A  health  carrier  must  make  adequate 
arrangements  to  ensure  reasonable  proximity  of 
participating  providers  to  the  business  or  personal 
residence  of  covered  persons.  In  determining 
compliance  with  this  proximity  requirement,  the 
commissioner  must  consider  the  relative  availability 
of  health  care  providers  in  the  service  area  under 
consideration.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Managed 
Care  Plan  Network  Adequacy  Model  Act,  6/2/96, 
Section  5A.] 

The  HMO  model  regulation  and  the  Preferred 
Provider  Arrangements  Model  Act  also  contain 
provisions  addressing  the  adequacy  of  access  to 
services.  [NAIC,  Model  Regulation  to  Implement 
Rules  Regarding  Contracts  and  Services  of  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations,  Model  Regulation 
Service  -  Jan.  1991,  Section  8;  NAIC,  Preferred 
Provider  Arrangements  Model  Act,  Model  Regula- 
tion Service  -  Jan.  1987,  Section  4A(3).] 

The  quality  improvement  plan  required  of 
health  carriers  offering  closed  plans  must  describe 
how  the  health  carrier  intends  to  evaluate  access 
to  care  for  covered  persons  according  to  standards 
established  by  statute,  regulation  or  the  commis- 
sioner. The  plan  must  also  describe  the  carrier's 
strategy  for  integrating  public  health  goals  with 
health  services  offered  to  covered  persons,  including 
the  carrier's  good  faith  efforts  to  initiate  or  maintain 
communication  with  public  health  agencies.  [NAIC, 
Quality  Assessment  and  Improvement  Model  Act, 
Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1996,  Section 
6C(2)(g).] 

The  Utilization  Review  Model  Act  contains 
specific  timeframes  for  making  review  decisions, 
reconsidering  those  decisions  upon  the  request  of 
a  provider,  and  appealing  adverse  determinations. 


It  sets  forth  distinct  procedures  for  standard  appeals 
and  expedited  appeals.  It  also  contains  a  provision 
addressing  emergency  services.  [NAIC,  Draft 
Standards,  Utilization  Review  Model  Act,  6/4/96, 
Sections  9,  10,  11,  and  12.] 

The  grievance  procedure  model  also  provides 
timeframes  for  the  resolution  of  first  level  and 
second  level  reviews,  standard  reviews  of  adverse 
determinations,  and  expedited  reviews.  [NAIC,  Draft 
Standards,  Health  Carrier  Grievance  Procedure 
Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Sections  7,  8,  9,  and  10.] 

JCAHO 

The  network  has  a  process  to  ensure  that  care 
is  available  in  a  timely  manner  [1996  Joint  Commis- 
sion standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Contin- 
uum of  Care,  CC.4.4]. 

Member  health  care  services  provided 
throughout  the  network  are  readily  available,  acces- 
sible, and  appropriate  to  the  scope  and  levels  of  care 
required  by  the  members  population(s)  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Leadership,  UD.2.4.2]. 

Services  are  available  in  a  timely  manner 
appropriate  to  the  setting  and  members'  needs 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Leadership,  LD.2.4.5]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  access 
to  and  appropriateness  of  care  and  services  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works, Improving  Network  Performance,  PI. 3.2.1]. 

NCQA 

The  MCO  has  standards  for  access,  including 
routine,  urgent,  and  emergency  care,  telephone 
appointments,  advice  and  member  service  lines 
[NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality  Man- 
agement and  Improvement,  1996,  QI  7.0]. 

The  MCO  takes  steps  to  ensure  that  services 
offered  are  accessible  to  members  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  Members'  Rights  and  Responsibili- 
ties, 1996,  RR  5.2]. 


Blue  <  ross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


1(1 


II.D.  Access/Timeliness  of  Service  (continued) 


The  points  of  access  to  primary  care,  specialty 
care  and  hospital  services  are  identified  for  mem- 
bers [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Members' 
Rights  and  Responsibilities,  1996,  RR  5.2.1]. 

Members  are  informed  about  how  to  obtain 
the  names,  qualifications,  and  titles  of  the  profes- 
sionals providing  and/or  responsible  for  their 
care  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Members' 
Rights  and  Responsibilities,  1996,  RR  5.2.2]. 

Members  are  provided  a  written  statement 
that  includes  information  about  provisions  for  after- 
hours  and  emergency  coverage  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  Members'  Rights  and  Responsibili- 
ties, 1996,  RR  5.0]. 

URAC 

The  Network  shall  establish  and  implement  accessi- 
bility standards  that  address  the  average  travel  time 
or  distance  members  must  travel  to  access  the 
specified  service  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  NM  8.2). 

The  Network  shall  specify  in  its  contracts  with 
primary  care  and  OB/GYN  physicians  the  require- 
ment to  provide  24  hour,  seven  day  per  week  cover- 
age (National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  NM  9.0). 

The  Network  shall,  when  the  Network  is  a 
health  plan,  establish  and  implement  appropriate 
policies  and  procedures  to  assure  access  to  covered 
services  when  the  covered  service  is  not  available 
from  a  Network  provider,  the  member  has  a  med- 
ical emergency  within  the  Network's  service  area, 
and  the  member  has  a  medical  emergency  outside 
the  Network's  service  area  (National  Network 
Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  NM  10.0,  10.1, 
10.2,  and  10.3). 

The  Network  shall  develop  and  implement 
a  Quality  Management  Program  that  monitors, 
evaluates,  and  works  to  improve  the  quality  of  care 
and  quality  of  services  provided  by  all  participating 


providers  by  utilizing  access  studies  (National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  QM 
5.0  and  5.4). 

The  Network  should  develop  or  adopt  addi- 
tional QM  standards  that  monitor  such  aspects 
of  patient  care  as  availability  and  accessibility 
of  care  (National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  QM  7.0  and  7.1). 

With  regard  to  utilization  management  ser- 
vices, the  Network/UMO  shall  provide  a  telephone 
review  service  that  provides  access  to  its  review 
staff  by  a  toll  free  or  collect  telephone  line  at  a  mini- 
mum from  9:00  a.m.  to  4:00  p.m.  of  each  normal 
business  day,  and  that  provides  a  mechanism  to 
receive  timely  callbacks  from  providers  and  estab- 
lishes written  procedures  for  receiving  or  redirect- 
ing after  hours  calls  either  in  person  or  by  recording 
(National  Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April 
1996,  UM  20.0,  20.1  and  20.2). 

The  Network/UMO  shall  have  written  proce- 
dures to  assure  that  reviews  and  second  opinions 
are  conducted  in  a  timely  manner  and  that  certifica- 
tion review  determinations  are  made  within  tw  o 
business  days.  Notification  of  an  initial  determina- 
tion to  certify  an  admission  or  service  shall  be  pro- 
vided promptly  either  by  telephone,  facsimile,  or  in 
writing  to  the  attending  physician  or  other  ordering 
provider,  facility  rendering  service  and  enrollee 
or  patient. 

Written  notification  shall,  in  the  absence  of 
any  contractual  agreement,  be  transmitted  within 
two  business  days  of  the  determination  (National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  UM 
25.0,25.1,26.0  and  26.1). 

A  concurrent  review  determination  to  certify 
an  extended  stay  or  additional  service  shall  be 
transmitted  within  one  business  day  of  receipt  of 
all  information  necessary  to  complete  the  review 
process  or  prior  to  the  end  of  the  current  certified 
period  (National  Network  Accreditation  Standards. 
April  1996,  UM  26.2). 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


II. D.  Access/Timeliness  of  Service  (continued) 


Minnesota 

All  plans:  Services  are  available  and  accessible, 
including  emergency  services,  24  hours  a  day  and 
7  days  a  week  [Minnesota  Statutes,  Chapter  62D, 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations,  62D.07]. 

Primary  care  physician  services  are  available 
and  accessible  24  hours  per  day,  7  days  per  week, 
within  the  plan's  service  area  as  provided  through 
regularly  scheduled  appointments  during  normal 
business  hours;  after-hours  clinics;  use  of  a  24-hour 
answering  service  with  medically  appropriate  call- 
back times;  back-up  coverage;  and  referrals  to 
urgent  care  centers  [Chapter  4685,  Department 
of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1010,  Subp.2.A.(l)]. 

Specialty  physician  services  are  available 
and  accessible  24  hours  per  day,  7  days  per  week, 
within  the  plan's  service  area,  as  provided  through 
regularly  scheduled  appointments  during  normal 
business  hours;  after-hours  clinics;  use  of  a  24-hour 
answering  service  with  medically  appropriate  call- 
back times;  back-up  coverage;  and  referrals  to 
urgent  care  centers  [Chapter  4685,  Department 
of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1010,  Subp.2.B.(l)]. 

Hospital  services  are  available  and  accessible, 
on  a  timely  basis  consistent  with  generally  accepted 
practice  parameters,  24  hours  per  day,  7  days  a 
week  [Chapter  4685,  Department  of  Health,  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations,  4685.1010,  Subp.2.C]. 

The  plan  contracts  with  sufficient  numbers 
of  providers  of  ancillary  services  and  mental  health 
and  chemical  dependency  services  to  meet  the  pro- 
jected needs  of  its  enrollees  and  consistent  with 
generally  accepted  practice  parameters  [Chapter 
4685,  Department  of  Health,  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations,  4685.1010,  Subp.2.D.E.]. 

The  travel  distance  or  time  within  the  plan's 
service  area  lo  the  nearest  provider  of  primary  care 
services  or  to  the  nearest  general  hospital  provider 
is  the  lesser  of  50  miles  or  30  minutes  [Chapter 
4685,  Department  of  Health,  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations,  4685.1010,  Subp.5.A]. 


The  maximum  travel  distance  or  time  within 
the  plan's  service  area  to  the  nearest  provider  of 
specialty  physician  services,  ancillary  services, 
specialized  hospital  services,  and  all  other  health 
services  is  the  lesser  of  60  miles  or  60  minutes 
[Chapter  4685,  Department  of  Health,  Health  Main- 
tenance Organizations,  4685.1010,  Subp.3.B]. 

The  plan  provides  access  to  emergency  care 
[Chapter  4685,  Department  of  Health,  Health  Main- 
tenance Organizations,  4685.1010,  Subp.7]. 

The  plan  or  its  participating  providers  have 
appointment  scheduling  guidelines  based  on  type 
of  health  care  service  [Chapter  4685,  Department 
of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1010,  Subp.6.B]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  demonstrates  that  access 
to  the  nearest  primary  care  physician  or  hospital 
facility  does  not  exceed  30  miles  or  30  minute  travel 
distance  or  time  for  any  enrollees  in  the  plan 
[Request  for  Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/General 
Assistance  Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota 
Senior  Health  Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan 
Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 

The  plan  demonstrates  adequate  geographic 
access  to  all  other  types  of  services  and  providers 
[Request  for  Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/General 
Assistance  Medical  Care,  Minnesota  Care,  Min- 
nesota Senior  Health  Options,  Managed  Care 
Health  Plan  Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 

The  plan  continually  monitors  the  geographic 
accessibility  of  the  services  it  provides  and  contracts 
with  additional  providers  as  needed  [Request  for 
Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/General  Assistance 
Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior 
Health  Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan  Con- 
tracts, State  of  Minnesota]. 

The  plan  establishes  clinically  appropriate 
scheduling  guidelines  for  various  types  of  appoint- 
ments including:  routine  physicals,  prenatal  care, 
diagnosis  of  acute  pain  or  injury,  and  follow-up 
appointments  for  chronic  conditions  and  communi- 
cates these  guidelines  in  writing  to  the  provider 


Blue  <  hiss  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


12 


II.D.  Access/Timeliness  of  Service  (continued) 


network.  The  plan  monitors,  and  corrects  when 
appropriate,  the  actual  time  that  enrollees  must  wait 
to  be  seen  by  the  office  or  clinic  [Request  for  Propos- 
als, Medical  Assistance/General  Assistance  Medical 
Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior  Health 
Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan  Contracts, 
State  of  Minnesota,]. 

Primary  care  physician  services  are  available 
24  hours  per  day,  7  days  a  week,  within  the  service 
area  [Request  for  Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/ 
General  Assistance  Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare, 
Minnesota  Senior  Health  Options,  Managed  Care 
Health  Plan  Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 

There  is  a  written  protocol  which  contains 
standards  for  regular  access  to  care  during  normal 
business  hours;  provision  of  care  after  hours;  use 
of  24-hour  answering  service  with  maximum 
call-back  response  time  based  on  medical  needs; 
back-up  coverage  by  another  participating  primary 
care  physician;  and  referrals  to  urgent  care  centers 
where  available  and  to  the  hospital  emergency 
room  when  appropriate  [Request  for  proposals, 
Medical  Assistance/General  Assistance  Medical 
Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior  Health 
Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan  Contracts, 
State  of  Minnesota]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  The  plan  demonstrates  that  health 
care  services  will  be  provided  as  promptly  as  is 
appropriate  [Ohio  Revised  Code,  1742.04(B)(1)]. 

Arrangements  are  made  for  short-term  emer- 
gencies within  the  service  area,  24  hours  per  day,  7 
days  a  week,  and  adequate  coverage  for  out-of-area 
emergencies  [Ohio  Revised  Code,  1742.04(B)(3)]. 

The  plan  establishes,  implements  and  reviews 
internal  standards  and  policies  pertaining  to  the 
schedule  capacity  of  primary  care  physicians  and 
specialists;  reasonable  waiting  times  for  routine 
care;  and  timeliness  of  urgent  and  emergency  care 
delivered  during  and  after  hours  [Procedural, 
(ODH)]. 


Medicaid:  Availability  and  access  to  services 
includes  detailed  requirements  for 

•  emergency  care 

•  twenty-four-hour  call  in  system 

•  ODHS-  approved  written  triage  procedures  for 
PCP  sites  and 

•  Urgent  care  services  [OAC  5101:  3-26-031 
(A,B,C,D)] 

No  enrollee  may  be  required  to  travel  more 
than  30  minutes  to  access  the  services  of  a  PCP  or 
hospital  (or  the  community  standard  for  accessing 
care  ).  [SKY  1997  RFP,  Section  VIII,  p.  55] 

Annual  assessment  required  of  enrollee  satis- 
faction including  perceived  problems  regarding  the 
quality,  availability  and  accessibility  of  health  care 
and  overall  service  delivery  [please  refer  to  OAC 
5103:  3-26-082  (C)]. 

P'tsrrijifiisvf  [Iwaoma 

All  plans:  As  part  of  a  plan's  initial  credentialing 
process  of  a  practitioner,  a  site  visit  is  made  to  all 
primary  care  physicians  to  assess  the  availability 
and  accessibility  of  services  for  new  members. 
Evidence  must  be  documented  through  a  review 
of  the  appointment  book  (e.g.,  the  average  number 
of  patients  seen  per  hour;  availability  of  emergency 
appointments)  [HMO  Applications  Technical  Advice 
and  Assistance,  p.  1]. 

The  plan  has  written  procedures  governing 
the  availability  of  frequently  utilized  services, 
including  at  least:  well-patient  examinations  and 
immunizations;  emergency  telephone  consultation 
on  a  24  hour  per  day,  7  day  a  week  basis;  U'eatment 
of  acute  emergencies;  treatment  of  acute  minor  ill- 
ness; and  treatment  of  chronic  illness  [28  Pa.  Code, 
Section  9.75(e)]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


4  s 


II. I).    U'cess/ Timeliness  oi'  Sen ice  (continued) 


Medicaid:  Emergency  services  are  available  on 
a  24-hour  a  day,  7  days  a  week  basis  [Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agree- 
ment, Section  4,  Medical  Services,  4.2]. 

Primary  care  sites  are  encouraged  to  contact 
enrollees  who  have  not  had  an  encounter  during 
the  past  year,  based  on  information  provided  by 
the  state  [Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public 
Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section  6,  Recipient 
Services,  6.6]. 


llluc  Cross  .ind  Blue  Shield  Association 


I  I 


I  I.E.  Preventive  Health 


Medicare 

Statute:  A  risk  contracting  HMO  or  CMP  provides 
enrolled  members  at  least  physician  services, 
inpatient  hospital  services,  laboratory,  X-Ray, 
emergency  and  preventive  services  and  out-of-area 
coverage  [Section  1876(b)(2)(A)  of  the  Social 
Security  Act]. 

Regulation:  HMOs  and  CMPs  furnish  to  Medicare 
enrollees  (directly  or  through  arrangements  with 
others)  all  the  Medicare  services  to  which  those 
enrollees  are  entitled  that  are  available  to  Medicare 
beneficiaries  who  reside  in  the  service  area  but 
are  not  enrolled  in  the  HMO  or  CMP  [42  CFR 
417.414(b)]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Statute:  Preventive  services  are  available,  including 
immunizations,  well-child  care  from  birth,  periodic 
health  evaluations  for  adults,  voluntary  family 
planning  services;  infertility  services;  and  eye  and 
ear  examinations  for  children  through  age  17 
[Title  XIII  of  the  Public  Health  Service  Act,  Section 
1302(a)(1)(H)]. 

Regulation:  Preventive  services  are  available  and 
include  at  least  the  following:  a  broad  range  of 
voluntary  family  planning  services;  services  for 
infertility;  well-child  care  from  birth;  periodic 
health  evaluations  for  adults;  eye  and  ear  examina- 
tions for  children  through  age  17;  and  pediatric 
and  adult  immunizations  in  accord  with  accepted 
medical  practice  [42  CFR  4 17. 10 1(a) (8) (i-v)]. 

Medicaid 

Guidelines:  Standards/guidelines  used  in  the 
quality  assurance  program  address  preventive 
health  services  [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement 


System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for 
States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard  II.C.6]. 

Priority  clinical  areas  of  concern  suggested 
for  quality  of  care  studies  include  many  areas  of 
prevention  (e.g.,  childhood  immunization,  mam- 
mography, pap  smears,  lead  toxicity,  well-child 
assessment,  HIV,  pregnancy  prevention,  cholesterol 
screening  and  management,  prevention  of 
influenza,  smoking  cessation,  dental  screening) 
[A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for 
Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medic- 
aid Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration, 
July  6,  1993,  Chapter  HI]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Review  of  medical  records  show  that  preventive 
health  schedules  and  strategies  specific  to  the  pro- 
gram being  reviewed  are  used  for  the  following: 

•  Perinatal  lifecycle,  e.g.,  risk  assessment  and 
appropriate  referral  for  low  birth  weight,  sub- 
stance abuse,  HIV+  counseling,  post  partum, 
family  planning,  etc. 

•  Pediatric  lifecyle,  e.g.,  anticipatory  guidance, 
growth  and  development  assessment,  lead 
screening,  immunization  schedules,  injury  pre- 
vention, oral  disease  prevention,  counseling,  etc. 

•  Adolescent  lifecycle,  e.g.,  family  planning  coun- 
seling, immunization  schedules,  behavioral  risk 
assessment  (diet,  exercise,  reproductive  health, 
STD  prevention,  tobacco,  alcohol  and  other 
drugs,  school  performance,  etc). 

•  Adult  lifecyle,  e.g.,  cancer  and  cardiovascular 
risk  screening  and  counseling,  substance  abuse, 
HIV  counseling,  family  planning,  breast  cancer 
screening,  etc. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


I  I.E.  Preventive  Health  (continued) 


•  Geriatric  lifeeycle,  e.g.,  immunization, 

injury  prevention  and  functional  assessment,  car- 
diovascular and  cancer  screening,  poly  pharmacy 
assessment,  etc. 

•  Preventive  oral  health  strategies  for  all  life  cycles, 
e.g.,  fluoride  supplement  for  pediatric  and  adoles- 
cent, BBTD  prevention  counseling  for  perinatal 
and  pediatric,  referral  to  dentist  for  prophylaxis 
and  care,  oral  cancer  screening  for  adult  and 
geriatric,  etc. 

•  Immunization  protocols  and  practice  consistent 
with  current  AAP  or  ACIP  guidelines  -  strategies 
to  improve  immunization  status  in  users  and 
community,  e.g.,  simultaneous  administration 
of  vaccines,  effective  triage  and  appointment 
systems  to  increase  access  to  immunization, 
aggressive  follow-up,  etc. 

•  Assessment,  counseling  and  treatment  related 
to  violence  and  abuse. 

•  TB  screening 

•  STDs 

Guidance:  These  questions  seek  to  determine 
how  well  the  medical  records  reflect  an  active 
program  of  preventive  health  care  services.  Review- 
ers will  examine  the  medical  records,  by  life  cycle. 
The  reviewer  is  to  look  for  not  only  evidence  of 
preventive  care,  but  also  the  use  of  organized  flow 
sheets  which  permit  ready  review  of  preventive 
health  care  status. 

Note:  Documentation  of  HIV  infection  should 
be  integrated  with  the  rest  of  the  medical  record, 
not  separated.  [PCER  Clinical  Protocol  V.B1..V.B.5] 

NAIC 

The  HMO  model  regulation  requires  HMOs  to 
provide  "basic  health  care  services,"  including  pre- 
ventive health  care  services.  [NAIC,  Model  Regula- 
tion to  Implement  Rules  Regarding  Contracts  and 
Serv  ices  of  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
Model  Regulation  Service  -  Jan.  1991,  Section  8B.] 


The  draft  health  plan  standards  do  not  address 
preventive  health  explicitly.  However  the  quality 
model  does  require  a  closed  plan  to  identify  in  its 
written  quality  improvement  plan  the  targeted 
diagnoses  and  treatments  that  will  be  reviewed 
each  year  by  the  quality  improvement  program. 
Presumably  one  result  of  such  targeting  would  be 
the  identification  and  implementation  of  preventive 
measures. 

JCAHO 

The  network  requires  its  components  and 
practitioner  sites  to  address  member  education 
needs  relating  to  self-care,  health  promotion  and 
disease  prevention,  and  specific  information  about 
members'  illnesses  and  treatments  [1996  joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Education  and  Communication,  ED. 3,  ED. 3.1, 
ED. 3.2,  and  ED.3.3]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  preven- 
tive services  and  health-promotion  programs  to 
evaluate  their  effectiveness  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving 
Network  Performance,  PI. 3.2. 6]. 

The  network's  leaders  establish  the  network's 
role  in  delivery  of  primary,  secondary,  and  tertiary 
preventive  services  [1996  Joint  Commission  stan- 
dards for  Health  Care  Networks,  Health  Promotion 
and  Disease  Prevention,  PS.l]. 

The  network's  preventive  services  are  effica- 
cious [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health 
Care  Networks,  Health  Promotion  and  Disease 
Prevention,  PS.2]. 

The  network's  preventive  services  are  appro- 
priate to  the  needs  of  the  community  or  population 
served  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health 
Care  Networks,  Health  Promotion  and  Disease 
Prevention,  PS. 3]. 


Blue  ( Iross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


II) 


I  I.E.  Preventive  Health  (continued) 


NCQA 

The  MCO  takes  an  active  role  in  improving  the 
health  status  of  its  members  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  Quality  Management  and  Improve- 
ment, 1996,  QI  8.0]. 

The  MCO  promotes  effective  health  manage- 
ment [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality- 
Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI  8.1,  8.2]. 

The  MCO  informs  and  educates  providers 
about  using  the  health  management  program  for 
the  members  assigned  to  them  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  Quality  Management  and  Improve- 
ment, 1996,  QI  8.2]. 

There  are  practice  guidelines  for  the  use  of 
preventive  health  services  that  are  based  on  reason- 
able medical  evidence,  developed  or  adopted  with 
the  participation  of  MCO  providers,  and  updated 
periodically  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Preventive  Health  Services,  1996,  PH  1.0]. 

Practice  guidelines  are  developed  for  the 
full  spectrum  of  populations  enrolled  in  the  MCO 
[NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Preventive 
Health  Services,  1996,  PH  1.4]. 

URAC 

The  Network  should  develop  or  adopt  QM 
standards  that  monitor  such  aspects  of  patient  care 
as  preventive  care,  disease  management,  acute  and 
chronic  care,  and  high  volume  services  {National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996, 
QM  7.0,  7.4,  7.5,  7.6  and  78). 

The  Network  shall  participate  in  the  educa- 
tion of  patients  by  providing  information  and 
educational  materials  about:  the  appropriate 
use  of  health  care  services  and  programs;  health 
education,  promotion,  and  prevention  services; 
and  community  services  that  may  be  available 
to  patients  to  assist  them  with  health  problems 
{National  Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April 
1996,  MP  2.0,  2.1,  2.2  and  2.3). 


Minnesota 

All  plans:  Preventive  health  services  are  available 
and  accessible  based  upon  accepted  medical  stan- 
dards [Chapter  4685,  Department  of  Health,  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations,  4685.080,  Subp.8]. 

Medicaid:  A  plan  notifies  eligible  enrollees 
once  annually  of  the  availability  of  Child  and  Teen 
Checkup  services  and  has  a  tracking  system  for 
monitoring  utilization  of  such  services  [Request  for 
Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/General  Assistance 
Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior 
Health  Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan  Con- 
tracts, State  of  Minnesota]. 

A  plan  develops  a  service  delivery  plan  for  the 
provision  of  prenatal  care  services  to  its  enrollees, 
including  a  procedure  for  assessing  prenatal  risk 
[Request  for  Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/General 
Assistance  Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota 
Senior  Health  Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan 
Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 

A  plan  creates  a  system  that  ensures  that 
children  of  all  geographic  areas,  racial  and  ethnic 
groups,  and  socioeconomic  strata  receive  age-appro- 
priate immunizations  against  DPT,  polio,  MMO, 
HiB,  and  hepatitis  B  such  that  90%  are  up  to  date 
when  measured  within  2  months  of  the  dates  on 
which  they  were  to  be  vaccinated  [Request  for 
Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/General  Assistance 
Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior 
Health  Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan  Con- 
tracts, State  of  Minnesota]. 

Ohio 

Medicaid:  MCPs  or  the  MCP's  PCPs  must  provide 
enrollees  with  health  education  materials  as  appro- 
priate on  specified  topics  [OAC  5101:  3-26-082 
(B)  (4)  (a-r)]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


17 


I  I.E.  Preventive  Health  (continued) 


Pennsylvania 

Medicaid:  The  plan  is  required  to  provide 
enrollees  with: 

•  information  regarding  pregnancies  which 
conveys  the  importance  of  prenatal  care; 

•  information  about  family  planning  services; 

•  information  stressing  preventive  care  and 
periodic  visits  to  primary  care  physicians;  and 

•  information  on  the  availability  and  access  to 
EPSDT  services  for  members  under  21  [Pennsyl- 
vania Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating 
Agreement,  Section  6,  Recipient  Services,  6.4]. 

The  plan  identifies  the  health  education 
needs  of  enrollees  and  implements  plans  to  meet 
those  needs  [Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public 
Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section  6,  Recipient 
Services,  6.6]. 

The  plan  implements  an  enrollee  education  and 
outreach  program  which  includes: 

•  a  health  education  program  focusing  on  the 
leading  causes  of  hospitalization  and  emergency 
room  use;  and 

•  health  initiatives  that  target  high-risk  population 
groups  with  integrated,  multi-faceted  preventive 
approaches  [Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public 
Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section  6, 
Recipient  Services,  6.8]. 

The  plan  establishes  a  Health  Education 
Advisory  Committee  that  includes  members  quali- 
fied to  advise  on  the  health  education  needs  of 
enrollees  [Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public 
Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section  6,  Recipient 
Services,  6.9]. 

The  plan  establishes  and  funds  a  Community 
Foundation  in  its  service  area  to  develop  initiatives 
that  address  the  health  care  and  qualify  of  life  issues 
that  are  most  critical  to  the  community  [Pennsylva- 
nia Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating 
Agreement,  Section  6,  Recipient  Sennces,  6.10]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


18 


ILK  Medical  Records 


Medicare 

Regulation:  A  medical  record  keeping  system  is 
maintained  through  which  pertinent  information 
relating  to  the  health  care  of  enrollees  is  accumu- 
lated and  is  readily  available  to  appropriate  profes- 
sionals [42  CFR  417.416(e)(2)]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Regulation:  The  confidentiality  of  the  health  and 
medical  records  of  enrollees  is  assured  [42  CFR 
417.106(d)]. 

There  is  a  system  of  medical  records  that 
accumulates  appropriate  information  and  makes 
it  available  to  appropriate  professionals  [42  CFR 
417.106(c)]. 

The  plan  maintains  a  record-keeping  system 
through  which  pertinent  information  relating  to  the 
health  care  of  the  member  is  accumulated,  readily 
available  and  shared  among  appropriate  profession- 
als [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organizations  (Title  15,  Public  Health  Service 
Act),  Transmittal  No.  2,  April  1992,  4006]. 

Medicaid 

Regulation:  Contracts  provide  for  the  maintenance 
of  an  appropriate  record  system  for  services  to 
enrolled  recipients  [42  CFR  434.6(a)(7)]. 

Guidelines:  The  plan  has  mechanisms  for  the 
maintenance  of  medical  records  in  a  legible,  cur- 
rent, detailed,  organized  and  comprehensive  man- 
ner that  permits  effective  patient  care  and  quality 
review  through:  (1)  medical  record  standards  that 
include  requirements  for  patient  identification 
number;  personal  data;  entry  date;  provider  identifi- 
cation; legibility;  allergies;  past  medical  history; 


immunizations;  diagnostic  information;  medication 
information;  consultations,  referrals  and  special!) 
reports;  emergency  care;  hospital  discharge  sum- 
maries; and  advance  directives;  and  (2)  patient  visit 
data  that  document  each  encounter  and  provide 
evidence  of  history  and  physical  examination;  plan 
of  treatment;  diagnostic  tests;  therapies  and  other 
prescribed  regimens;  follow-up;  referrals  and  the 
results  thereof;  and  all  other  aspects  of  patient  care, 
including  ancillary  services  [A  Health  Care  Quality 
Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care: 
A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care 
Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard 
XIII,  pp.  28-31]. 

The  plan  has  a  system  to  assess  the  content  of 
medical  records  for  legibility,  organization,  comple- 
tion and  conformance  to  its  standards  [A  Health 
Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for  Medicaid 
Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau, 
Health  Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993, 
Standard  XII.C.l,  p.31]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Medical  records  administration  is  an  area  of  techni- 
cal complexity  which  is  rapidly  evolving.  The  intent 
of  these  questions  is  to  determine  the  qualifications 
of  the  individual(s)  overseeing  the  medical  records 
system,  the  degree  to  which  the  medical  records  are 
monitored  for  quality  and  completeness  of  record 
keeping,  and  the  overall  quality  of  the  system  for 
medical  records  management.  It  is  desirable  that 
the  programs  have  access  to  an  individual  with 
certification  or  training  in  medical  records  adminis- 
tration. For  smaller  centers  this  access  may  be 
periodic,  rather  than  by  staff.  Programs  which 
serve  mobile  populations,  especially  migrant  and 
homeless  sites,  but  also  urban  sites  with  transient 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


19 


II.F.  Medical  Records  (continued) 


families,  are  encouraged  to  provide  immunization 
records  that  patients  can  take  with  them  to  succes- 
sive providers.  [PCER  Clinical  Protocol  IV.A.1...IVA.4] 

A  review  of  medical  records  reveals  that 
documentation  conforms  to  policies  and  that; 
uniform  format  and  logical  flow  of  information 
exist;  information  including  prescriptions  is  legible; 
timely  entry  of  data;  information  appropriately 
dated;  problem  oriented  record  in  SOAP  format  is 
utilized;  documentation  of  reason  for  every  visit; 
past  and  present  medical  histories  are  present; 
findings  of  physical  examinations;  documentation 
of  special  studies  ordered;  documentation  of  clinical 
assessments  or  diagnoses;  treatment  plan  (return 
appointments.,  drug  therapy,  referrals,  etc.);  neces- 
sary patient  and  family  identifiers  are  present; 
signed  consents  for  treatment,  if  required;  evidence 
that  the  provider  has  reviewed  consult  reports, 
etc.;  provider  signature;  conspicuous  listing  of  drug 
allergies;  patient  education  activities;  necessary 
patient  identification  data;  evidence  of  screening  or 
referral  for  patients  at  risk  for  TB  or  HIV  infection; 
referral  for  health  care  maintenance,  including 
immunizations;  documentation  of  clinical  assess- 
ments or  diagnosis;  tracking  of  referrals;  coordina- 
tion of  services  among  providers;  evidence  of 
case  management.  [PCER  Clinical  Protocol 
IV.A.5...IVA6] 

Guidance:  The  intent  of  these  questions,  and  their 
subparts,  is  to  determine,  through  an  actual  review 
of  a  representative  sample  of  medical  records,  the 
quality,  completeness,  consistency,  accuracy,  and 
appropriateness  of  the  medical  record  keeping. 
Outreach  records  and  case  management  records 
conform  to  the  same  standards.  [PCER  Clinical 
Protocol  IV.A.8...IV.A.10] 

Guidance:  A  substantial  number  of  BPHC  funded 
329  and  530  programs  have  special  Comprehensive 
Perinatal  Care  Program  (CPCP)  funds.  All  centers, 
but  especially  centers  which  receive  these  funds 
must  maintain  an  organized  record  keeping  process 
for  perinatal  care  (i.e.  Hollister,  ACOG,  etc.). 


A  second  intent  of  these  questions  is  to 
determine  whether  the  medical  records  documenta- 
tion reflects  continuity  of  care. 

Guidance:  This  section  provides  information  about 
the  management  and  maintenance  of  the  medical 
records,  particularly  focusing  on  confidentiality, 
record  security  and  safety.  [PCER  Clinical  Protocol 
IV.A.11..IV.A.17] 

NAIC 

The  Health  Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act 
requires  an  HMO,  as  part  of  its  quality  assurance 
program,  to  have  an  adequate  patient  record  system 
and  to  ensure  that  enrollee  clinical  records  are 
available  to  the  commissioner  of  public  health  or 
other  appropriate  state  regulatory  officials  to  ascer- 
tain compliance  with  the  act.  [NAIC,  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organization  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation 
Service  -  July  1995,  Sections  7D  and  7E.] 

A  health  carrier  must  notify  providers  of  their 
responsibilities  with  respect  to  the  health  carrier's 
applicable  administrative  policies  and  programs, 
including  data  reporting  and  confidentiality  require- 
ments. A  health  carrier  must  also  require  a  provider 
to  make  health  records  available  to  appropriate  state 
and  federal  authorities  involved  in  assessing  the 
quality  of  care  or  investigating  grievances  or  com- 
plaints of  covered  persons,  and  require  a  provider 
to  comply  with  applicable  state  and  federal  laws 
related  to  the  confidentiality  of  medical  or  health 
records.  Intermediaries  and  the  participating 
providers  with  whom  they  contract  must  also  meet 
these  requirements.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Man- 
aged Care  Plan  Network  Adequacy  Model  Act, 
6/2/96,  Sections  6H,  6K,  and  7A.] 

Contracts  between  health  carriers  and  inter- 
mediaries are  required  to  allow  the  commissioner 
access  to  the  intermediary's  records  and  any  docu- 
mentation of  services  provided  to  covered  persons 
in  order  for  the  commissioner  to  determine  compli- 
ance with  the  act.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Managed 
Care  Plan  Network  Adequacy  Model  Act,  6/2/96, 
Section  7G.] 


Blue  Cniss  anil  Blue  Shield  Association 


->(> 


II.F.  Medical  Records  (continued) 


JCAHO 

The  network  and  its  components  effectively 
safeguard  records  and  information  against  loss, 
destruction,  tampering,  and  unauthorized  access 
or  use  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health 
Care  Networks,  Management  of  Information,  IM.2.3]. 

Member  health  records  are  periodically 
reviewed  for  completeness,  accuracy,  and  timely 
completion  of  all  necessary  information  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Management  of  Information,  IM.3.2.1]. 

The  network  determines  how  long  health 
record  information  is  retained  [1996  Joint  Commis- 
sion standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Manage- 
ment of  Information,  IM.5.1]. 

The  network's  member  information  system 
routinely  provides  access  to  all  needed  member 
information  as  necessary  during  treatment  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Management  of  Information,  IM.6.1]. 

A  record  of  member  health  information  is 
initiated,  maintained,  and  accessible  for  every  indi- 
vidual assessed  or  treated  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Management 
of  Information,  IM.6.2]. 

The  record  of  health  information  contains 
sufficient  information  to  identify  the  member, 
support  the  diagnosis,  justify  treatment  or  services, 
document  the  course  and  results  of  treatment  or 
services,  and  facilitate  continuity  of  care  among 
components  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Management  of  Infor- 
mation, IM.6.3]. 

NCQA 

Medical  records  are  maintained  in  a  manner  that 
is  current,  detailed,  organized  and  permits  effective 
patient  care  and  quality  review  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  Medical  Records,  1996,  MR  1.0]. 


Medical  records  reflect  all  aspects  of  patient 
care,  including  ancillary  services  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  Medical  Records,  1996,  MR  1.1]. 

Records  are  available  to  health  care  practi- 
tioners at  each  encounter  and  to  NCQA  reviewers 
[NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Medical 
Records,  1996,  MR  1.2]. 

The  organization  sets  standards  for  medical 
records  and  systematically  reviews  records  for 
conformance,  and  institutes  corrective  action  when 
standards  are  not  met  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accredi- 
tation, Medical  Records,  1996,  MR  2.0]. 

URAC 

The  Network  shall  implement  an  automated 
management  information  system  (MIS)  capable 
of:  capturing  basic  demographic,  cost,  diagnostic, 
and  service  data  from  claims  and  encounter  forms; 
providing  MIS  reports  that  assist  the  Network  to 
manage  cost,  utilization,  and  quality;  and  support- 
ing its  utilization  management,  quality  manage- 
ment, and  credentialing  programs  (NM  14.0,  14.1, 
14.2  and  14.3). 

The  Network  shall  execute  a  written  service 
agreement  with  all  participating  providers  that 
provide  access  to  member  medical  records  as  part 
of  the  Network's  medical  management  programs 
(NM  17.0  and  17.5).  Such  agreements  also  specify 
the  obligation  to  maintain  the  confidentiality  of 
member  health  information  (NM  17.12). 

The  Network  should  develop  or  adopt  QM 
standards  that  monitor  medical  record  keeping 
(QM  7.7). 

The  Network/UMO  shall,  when  conducting 
routine  prospective,  concurrent ,  and  retrospective 
utilization  management: 

•  collect  only  the  information  necessary  to  certify 
the  admission,  procedure  or  treatment,  length 
of  stay,  and/or  frequency  and  duration  of 
services; 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


5! 


II.F.  Medical  Records  (continued) 


•  not  routinely  require  providers  to  numerically 
code  diagnoses  or  procedures  to  be  considered 
for  certification,  but  may  request  such  codes, 
if  available; 

•  not  routinely  request  copies  of  medical  records 
on  all  patients  reviewed; 

•  require  copies  of  medical  records  only  when 
difficulty  develops  in  certifying  tbe  medical 
necessity  or  appropriateness  of  the  service; 

•  request  only  the  necessary  or  pertinent  section(s) 
of  the  medical  record  under  the  conditions 
described  abo\ c: 

•  share  all  clinical  and  demographic  information 
on  individual  patients  among  its  various  clinical 
divisions  and  administrative  departments  to 
avoid  duplicate  requests  for  information  from 
members  or  providers  (UM  22.0  to  22.6) 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  The  plan  implements  a  system  to  assure 
that  medical  records  are  maintained  with  timely, 
legible,  and  accurate  documentation  of  all  patient 
interactions,  including  documentation  regarding 
patient  history,  health  status,  diagnosis,  treatment 
and  referred  service  notes  [Chapter  4685,  Depart- 
ment of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1110,  Subp.H.A]. 

The  plan  maintains  a  medical  record  retrieval 
system  that  ensures  that  medical  records,  reports 
and  other  documents  are  readily  accessible  to  the 
plan  [Chapter  4685,  Department  of  Health,  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations,  4685.1110,  Subp.l3.B]. 

Ohio 

At  a  minimum,  the  medical  record  system  is  main- 
tained in  a  manner  consistent  with  professional 
standards  and  practices  and  has  sufficient  staff, 
facilities,  and  equipment  to  provide  medical  records 
which  are  readily  available  and  systematically 
organized  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 


Clinical  information  is  maintained  in  the 
medical  record  in  a  current,  legible,  detailed,  orga- 
nized and  comprehensive  manner  and  reflects  all 
aspects  of  patient  care  in  addition  to  demonstrating 
conformity  with  good  professional  medical  practice 
that  allows  for  effective  quality  assurance  review 
[Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  has  a  paper  or  electronic 
system  for  medical  records  which  facilitates  case 
management  and  ongoing  quality  improvement. 
The  system  must  include,  at  a  minimum,  state-spec- 
ified contents  [Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter 
5101:3-26-071  (E)]. 

The  plan/provider  site  has  a  policy  regarding 
the  confidentiality  of  medical  records  which  ensures 
that  records  are  handled  to  preclude  loss,  tarn 
pering,  alteration,  destruction,  and  unauthorized 
or  inadvertent  disclosure  of  information  [Ohio 
Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-077(A)(3)]. 

Information  obtained  about  enrollees 
related  to  their  examination,  care,  and  treatment 
is  held  confidentially  and  not  divulged  without 
the  enrollee's  authorization  unless  it  is  required 
by  law,  necessary  to  coordinate  the  patient's  care 
or  necessary  in  compelling  circumstances  [Ohio 
Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-077(A)(3)]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  Medical  records  are  maintained  in  a 
current,  detailed  and  comprehensive  manner  and 
conform  with  good  professional  medical  practice, 
permit  effective  quality  assurance  review  and 
facilitate  continuity  of  care  [28  Pa.  Code,  Section 
9.74(a)(1)]. 

The  Commonwealth  has  adopted  NCQA 
medical  record  keeping  standards  in  an  advisory 
to  the  Industry. 

Medicaid:  There  are  standards  for  medical  record 
keeping  requirements  which  equal  or  exceed  the 
following  standards:  the  record  is  legible  through- 
out; the  record  identifies  the  patient  on  each  page; 


Bl in-  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


52 


II.F.  Medical  Records  (continued) 


entries  are  signed  and  dated  by  the  responsible 
licensed  provider;  the  record  contains  a  preliminary 
working  diagnosis  as  well  as  a  final  diagnosis  and 
the  elements  of  a  history  and  physical  examination 
upon  which  the  diagnosis  is  based;  treatments  and 
treatment  plan  are  in  the  record;  the  record  indi- 
cates the  progress  at  each  visit  change  in  diagnosis, 
change  in  treatment,  and  response  to  treatment;  the 
record  contains  summaries  of  hospitalizations  and 
reports  of  operative  procedures  and  excised  tissues; 
the  record  contains  results,  including  interpreta- 
tions of  diagnostic  tests  and  reports  of  consultations; 
the  disposition  of  the  case  is  entered  into  the  record; 
the  record  contains  documentation  of  the  medical 
necessity  of  a  rendered,  ordered  or  prescribed 
service  [Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public  Welfare, 
Operating  Agreement,  Section  14.  Quality  Assurance 
and  Utilization  Review,  Attachment  IV,  7], 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


55 


II.G.  Continuity  of  Care 


Medicare 

Statute:  Services  are  available  and  accessible 
in  a  manner  tbat  assures  continuity  [Section 
1876(c)(4)(A)(i)  of  the  Social  Security  Act]. 

Regulation:  The  plan  ensures  that  required 
services,  additional  services  and  any  other  supple- 
mental services  for  which  the  Medicare  enrollee 
has  contracted  are  furnished  in  a  manner  that 
ensures  continuity  [42  CFR  417.416(a)]. 

Policy:  The  concept  of  continuity  of  care 
emphasizes: 

•  coordination  of  health  care  services  among 
primary  and  specialty  care  physicians; 

•  coordination  among  specialists; 

•  appropriate  combinations  of  prescribed 
medications; 

•  coordinated  use  of  ancillary  services,  including 
social  services  and  other  community  resources 

•  appropriate  discharge  planning;  and 

•  timely  placement  at  different  levels  of  care, 
including  hospital,  SNF  and  home  health 
[Medicare  Health  Maintenance 
Organization/Competitive  Medical  Plan  Manual, 
Transmittal  No.  10,  April  1992,  2304]. 

The  system  of  continuity  of  care  may  include 
the  development  of  a  plan  for  the  overall  treatment 
of  each  patient  [Medicare  Health  Maintenance 
Organization/Competitive  Medical  Plan  Manual, 
Transmittal  No.  10,  April  1992,  2304.1]. 

ContinuilN  of  care  ma>  be  achieved  b\  ba\  ing 
a  primary  physician  responsible  for  coordinating 
a  member's  overall  health  care  and  by  maintaining 
record-keeping  systems  through  which  pertinent 


information  relating  to  the  health  care  of  the  mem- 
ber is  accumulated  and  shared  among  appropriate 
professionals  [Medicare  Health  Maintenance 
Organization/Competitive  Medical  Plan  Manual, 
Transmittal  No.  10,  April  1992,  2304]. 

The  plan  makes  arrangements  for  the  physi- 
cian or  other  health  professional  coordinating  the 
member's  overall  health  care  to  be  kept  informed 
about  referral  services  provided  to  the  member 
[Medicare  Health  Maintenance  Organization/Com- 
petitive Medical  Plan  Manual,  Transmittal  No.  10, 
April  1992,  2304]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Statute:  Services  are  available  and  accessible  in 
a  manner  that  assures  continuity  [Title  XIII  of  the 
Public  Health  Service  Act,  Section  1301(b)(4)]. 

Regulation:  There  are  arrangements  for  a  health 
professional  to  be  responsible  for  coordinating  an 
enrollee's  care;  a  system  of  medical  records  that 
accumulates  appropriate  information  and  makes 
it  available  to  appropriate  professionals;  and 
arrangements  to  ensure  that  the  coordinating  health 
professional  is  kept  informed  about  referral  services 
[42  CFR  417.106(c)]. 

Policy:  The  concept  of  coordination  of  care 
emphasizes: 

•  coordination  of  health  care  services  among 
primary  and  specialty  care  physicians; 

•  coordination  among  specialists; 

•  appropriate  combinations  of  prescribed 
medications; 


Uluc  (miss  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


51 


II.G.  Continuity  of  Care  (continued) 


•  coordinated  use  of  ancillary  services,  including 
social  services  and  other  community  resources 

•  appropriate  discharge  planning;  and 

•  timely  placement  at  different  levels  of  care, 
including  hospital,  SNF  and  home  health  [Man- 
ual for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  15,  Public  Health  Service 
Act),  Transmittal  No.  2,  April  1992,  4006]. 

The  plan  has  a  health  professional  who  is 
primarily  responsible  for  coordinating  a  member's 
overall  health  care  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13, 
Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  2, 
April  1992,  4006]. 

Arrangements  are  made  for  the  physician  or 
other  health  professional  coordinating  a  member's 
overall  health  care  to  be  kept  informed  about  refer- 
ral services  provided  to  the  member  [Manual  for 
Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance  Organiza- 
tions (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmit- 
tal No.  2,  April  1992,  4006]. 

The  system  of  continuity  of  care  may  include 
the  development  of  plan  for  the  overall  treatment  of 
each  patient  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  2,  April  1992,  4006.1]. 

Medicaid 

Guidelines:  The  plan  has  a  basic  system  in  place 
which  promotes  continuity  of  care  and  care  man- 
agement [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  Sys- 
tem for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States, 
Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Adminis- 
tration, July  6,  1993,  Standard  X1Y,  p.  32]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Policy:  BPHC  programs  must  have  a  system  and 
procedures  in  place  (and  followed)  as  appropriate 
to  follow  its  patients  throughout  the  course  of  their 
primary  and  other  medical  care,  to  assure  that 
appropriate  follow-up  is  carried  out,  and  to  assure 


that  documentation  is  carried  out  so  that  the  status 
of  the  patient  and  his/her  care  is  known  at  any  point 
in  time.  [PCER  Clinical  Protocol  IV.B.1...IV.B.8.] 

NAIC 

The  Health  Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act 
requires  an  HMO  to  have  a  plan  for  ensuring  the 
continuation  of  benefits  for  a  specified  period  in  the 
event  of  the  HMO's  insolvency.  [NAIC,  Health  Main- 
tenance Organization  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation 
Service  -  July  1995,  Section  13E.] 

A  health  carrier's  access  plan  must  describe: 
(1)  the  carrier's  procedures  for  making  referrals 
within  and  outside  its  network;  (2)  the  carrier's 
method  of  informing  covered  persons  of  the  plan's 
procedures  for  choosing  and  changing  providers 
and  obtaining  emergency  and  specialty  care; 
(3)  the  carrier's  system  for  ensuring  coordination 
and  continuity  of  care  for  covered  persons  referred 
to  specialty  physicians  or  using  ancillary  services, 
including  social  services  and  other  community 
resources,  and  for  ensuring  appropriate  discharge 
planning.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Managed  Care 
Plan  Network  Adequacy  Model  Act,  6/2/96, 
Sections  5B(2),  (6),  and  (7).] 

The  access  plan  must  also  contain  the  carrier's 
proposed  plan  for  providing  continuity  of  care  in 
the  event  of  contract  termination  between  the  health 
carrier  and  any  of  its  participating  providers,  or  in 
the  event  of  the  carrier's  insolvency  or  other  inabil- 
ity to  continue  operations.  The  access  plan  must 
describe  how  covered  persons  will  be  notified  of 
the  insolvency  or  cessation  of  operations  and 
transferred  to  other  providers  in  a  timely  manner. 
[NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Managed  Care  Plan  Net- 
work Adequacy  Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Section  5B(9).] 
In  addition  every  contract  between  a  health  carrier 
and  participating  provider  must  set  forth  that  ser- 
vices will  be  continued  through  a  specified  period 
in  the  event  of  the  insolvency  or  cessation  of  opera- 
tions of  a  carrier  or  intermediary.  [NAIC,  Draft 
Standards,  Managed  Care  Plan  Network  Adequacy 
Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Section  6C] 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


55 


II.G.  Continuity  of  Care  (continued) 


JCAHO 

Health  care  services  provided  directly  or  by 
arrangement  are  appropriate  in  scope  to  meet  the 
health  care  need  of  the  population  served;  to  the 
health  care  needs,  as  influenced  by  sociocultural 
characteristics  of  the  population  served;  to  the  net- 
work's mission;  and  to  the  network's  contractual 
obligations  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Continuum  of  Care,  CC.l, 
CC.1.1,  CC.1.2,  CC.1.3,  and  CC.1.4]. 

The  delivery  of  member  health  care  treatment 
and  services  is  integrated  throughout  the  network 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Continuum  of  Care,  CC.2]. 

The  network  determines  and  provides  the 
appropriate  health  care  disciplines  and  specialists 
to  meet  member  health  care  needs  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Continuum  of  Care,  CC.3]. 

The  network  ensures  that  members' 
health  care  needs  are  assessed  in  each  component 
and  practitioner  site  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Continuum 
of  Care,  CC.4]. 

The  network  has  a  process  to  ensure  that 
the  assessment's  scope  and  intensity  are  appropriate 
to  the  member's  needs  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Continuum 
of  Care,  CC.4.1]. 

The  network  has  a  process  to  ensure  that 
entry  to  the  appropriate  level  of  care  is  based  on  the 
member's  assessed  health  care  needs  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Continuum  of  Care,  CC.4.2]. 

The  network  has  a  process  to  ensure  that 
health  care  services  are  appropriate  to  members' 
assessed  health  care  needs  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Continuum 
of  Care,  CC.4.3]. 

The  network  has  a  process  to  ensure  that 
care  is  available  in  a  timely  manner  [1996  Joint 


Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Continuum  of  Care,  CC.4.4]. 

The  network  has  a  process  to  ensure  that 
care  is  provided  in  appropriate  settings  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Continuum  of  Care,  CC.4.5]. 

The  network  has  a  process  to  ensure  that  care 
is  planned,  individualized,  and  evaluated  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Continuum  of  Care,  CC.4. 6]. 

The  network  facilitates  timely  communication 
of  information  among  components  and  practitioner 
sites  to  support  continuity  of  care  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Continuum  of  Care,  CC.5]. 

Members  are  informed  of  specific  health 
care  needs  that  require  follow-up  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Continuum  of  Care,  CC.6]. 

Members  are  transferred  between  components 
or  levels  of  care  in  the  network  based  on  the  mem- 
ber's assessed  need  and  the  receiving  component's 
ability  to  provide  needed  care  or  treatment  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works, Continuum  of  Care,  CC.7]. 

When  the  network  or  an  external  entity 
conducts  a  utilization  review  of  a  licensed  inde- 
pendent practitioner's  or  network  component's 
care  that  results  in  denial  of  payment,  decision  by 
the  licensed  independent  practitioner  or  network 
component  regarding  ongoing  care  or  discharge 
are  based  on  the  care  required  by  the  member's 
assessed  needs  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Continuum  of  Care,  CC.8]. 

When  utilization  review  results  in  an 
adverse  utilization  management  decision,  the 
network  provides  the  criteria  for  the  decision  and 
information  regarding  appeal  to  the  licensed  inde- 
pendent practitioner  responsible  for  the  member's 
care  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health 
Care  Networks,  Continuum  of  Care,  CC.8.1]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


">() 


II.G.  Continuity  of  Care  (continued) 


The  network  has  a  process  to  ensure  that  the 
environment  of  care  is  safe,  accessible,  affective, 
and  efficient  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Continuum  of  Care,  CC.9]. 

The  network  develops  an  emergency-pre- 
paredness plan  to  continue  necessary  operations 
in  the  event  of  a  disaster  or  emergency  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Continuum  of  Care,  CC.10]. 

The  leaders  provide  for  comparable  perfor- 
mance of  member  care  processes  throughout  the 
network  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Leadership,  LD.1.4]. 

The  leaders  see  that  health  care  services  are 
appropriately  integrated  throughout  the  network 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Leadership,  LD.4]. 

The  network's  organizational  structure  and 
its  components'  functional  relationships  are  speci- 
fied in  the  network's  plan  for  services  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Leadership,  LD.4.1]. 

The  network's  leaders  develop  and  participate 
in  systematic  and  effective  processes  for  fostering 
communication  among  individuals  and  the  net- 
work's components;  (and)  smoothly  transitioning 
members  to  other  network  components  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Leadership,  LD.4.2,  LD.4.2.1,  and  LD.4.2.3]. 

NCQA 

The  MCO  evaluates  the  continuity  and  coordination 
of  care  members  receive  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  Quality  Management  and  Improve- 
ment, 1996,  QI.6.3]. 


URAC 

The  Network  should  develop  or  adopt  quality 
management  standards  that  monitor  coordination 
and  continuity  of  care  {National  Network  Accredita- 
tion Standards,  April  1996,  QM  7.0  and  QM  7.3). 

The  Network/UMO  shall  have  written  proce- 
dures to  assure  that  reviews  and  second  opinions 
are  conducted  in  a  timely  manner  and  that  the  fre- 
quency of  reviews  for  the  extension  of  initial  deter- 
mination be  based  on  the  severity  or  complexity 
of  the  patient's  condition  or  on  necessary  treatment 
and  discharge  planning  activity  (National  Network 
Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  UM  25.0 
and  25.2). 

When  utilization  review  results  in  a  determi- 
nation not  to  certify,  provide  written  notification 
to  all  parties  involved,  including  the  enrollee  or 
patient,  that  includes  the  principal  reasons  for  the 
determination  not  to  certify  and  instructions  for 
initiating  an  appeal  of  the  determinations  and/or 
requesting  the  clinical  rationale  in  writing 
(National  Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April 
1996,  UM  26.4  and  UM  26.4.2). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  The  plan  provides  for  the  coordination 
and  continuity  of  care  for  enrollees  referred  to 
specialty  physicians  and,  where  possible,  provides 
this  coordination  through  the  enrollee's  primary 
care  provider  [Chapter  4685,  Department  of  Health, 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations,  4685.1010, 
Subp.5.B]. 

Medicaid:  An  individual  plan  of  care  is  developed, 
implemented,  evaluated,  monitored,  revised,  and 
coordinated  with  other  health  professionals  as 
appropriate  and  necessary  [Minnesota  Department 
of  Human  Services  Rules,  9500.1460  Subp.15]. 

There  is  participation  by  health  plan  or 
provider  staff  in  coordination  with  county  case 
management  activities,  including  case  conferences 
when  requested  by  the  county  [Request  for  Propos- 
als, Medical  Assistance/General  Assistance  Medical 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


57 


II. G.  Continuity  of  Care  (continued) 


Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior  Health 
Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan  Contracts, 
State  of  Minnesota]. 

A  plan  develops  a  care-management  system 
designed  I"  coordinate  the  provision  of  health 
care  services  to  its  enrollees  [Request  for  Proposals, 
Medical  Assistance/General  Assistance  Medical 
Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior  Health 
Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan  Contracts, 
State  of  Minnesota]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  The  plan  demonstrates  that  health 
care  services  will  be  provided  in  a  manner  that 
assures  continuity  of  care  [Ohio  Revised  Code, 
1742.04(B)(1)]. 

Continuity  of  care  is  assured  through: 

•  a  system  of  medical  management  for  coordinat- 
ing the  provision  of  health  care  services  for  each 
enrollee; 

•  protocols  for  patient  care; 

•  a  referral  system,  including  out-of-plan 
referrals,  as  needed; 

•  a  system  of  documentation  of  referrals  and 
of  monitoring  follow-up  on  referrals; 

•  provisions  for  monitoring  of  enrollees  with 
ongoing  medical  conditions;  and 

•  the  maintenance  of  a  medical  record  system 

that  provides  for  sharing  of  all  pertinent  informa- 
tion relating  to  the  health  care  of  each  enrollee 
among  the  plan's  health  professionals 
[Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  Each  MCP  must  submit  a  written 
description  of  its  plan's  case  management  program 
meeting  state  specifications  to  ODHS  for  prior 
approval.  [Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter 
5101:5-26-032  (B) 


MCPs  must  submit  a  written  quality  improve- 
ment program  (QIP)  to  ODHS  annually  for  review 
and  approval  describing,  among  other  specified 
requirements,  nonclinical  aspects  of  service  includ- 
ing continuity  of  care  [OAC  5101:  3-26-071  (B)  (2)]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  The  plan  provides  for  the  coordination 
and  continuity  of  care  for  enrollees  referred  to 
specialists  [28  Pa.  Code,  Section  9.75(d)(4)]. 

Appropriate  health  management  and  con- 
tinuity of  care  are  clearly  reflected  in  the  medical 
records  with  evidence  of  follow-up  to  previous 
encounters,  hospital  discharge  summaries,  referrals 
and  referral  results,  and  documentation  of  emer- 
gency encounters  and  follow-up  [Appendix  I, 
Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health,  HMO  Quality 
Assurance  Standards,  C.3.5]. 

Medicaid:  There  are  procedures  to  ensure  adequate 
discharge  planning  [Pennsylvania  Department  of 
Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section  14, 
Quality  Assurance  and  Utilization  Review,  Attach- 
ment IV,  20]. 

The  plan  develops,  and  submits  to  the  state, 
a  plan  to  ensure  effective  communication  among 
the  plan,  primary  care  physicians  and  drug  and 
alcohol  and  mental  health  providers,  which  inte- 
grates inpatient  treatment  programs  with  the  exist- 
ing system  of  publicly  funded  community  mental 
health  agency  programs  [Pennsylvania  Department 
of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section  14, 
Quality  Assurance  and  Utilization  Review,  14.8]. 


Blue  Cross  .uicl  lilni'  Shii-ld  Association 


II.H.1.  Quality  Assurance  Program/ 
Program  Description/Activities 


Medicare 

Statute:  There  is  a  quality  assurance  program 
that  stresses  health  outcomes  and  provides  review 
by  physicians  and  other  health  professionals  of  the 
process  followed  in  the  provision  of  such  health 
care  policy  [Section  1876(c)(6)  of  the  Social 
Security  Act]. 

Regulation:  There  is  an  ongoing  quality  assurance 
program  that  (1)  stresses  health  outcomes  consis- 
tent with  the  state  of  the  art;  (2)  provides  review 
by  physicians  and  other  health  professionals;  (3) 
uses  systematic  data  collection  of  performance  and 
patient  results,  interpret  data  to  practitioners  and 
make  needed  change;  and  (4)  provides  for  remedial 
action,  as  necessary  [42  CFR  417.418  and  42  CFR 
417.106(a)]. 

Policy:  The  OA  program  provides  for  a  review 
of  health  outcomes  for  the  entire  range  of  care 
provided,  assuring  that  all  demographic  groups, 
care  settings  and  types  of  services  are  included  in 
the  scope  of  the  QA  review  [Manual  for  Federally 
Qualified  Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title 
15.  Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1. 
November  1989,  4201.2.A]. 

Areas  for  review  are  selected  on  the  basis 
of  high  volume,  high-risk  diagnosis  or  procedure, 
adverse  outcomes,  or  other  problem-focused 
method  consistent  with  the  state  of  the  art  [Manual 
for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.2.B]. 

The  QA  program  has  written  guidelines 
delineating  a  systematic  process  for  conducting 
quality  assurance  activities,  including:  (1)  identify- 


ing areas  for  review;  (2)  determining  if  problems 
exist  in  those  areas;  (3)  providing  feedback  to 
appropriate  health  professionals;  (4)  recommending 
and  implementing  corrective  actions;  and  (5)  moni- 
toring and  evaluating  the  implementation  of  correc- 
tive actions  to  assure  that  appropriate  changes  have 
been  made  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989. 
4201.1.F]. 

The  QA  committee  or  its  designee  reviews 
sources  of  data  on  performance  and  patient  results, 
such  as:  enrollee  complaints,  health  professional, 
provider,  and  staff  feedback;  member  survey  results; 
clinical  and  non-clinical  study  results;  referrals 
through  the  utilization  review  system;  and  potential 
problem  areas  identified  through  the  information 
system  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  15.  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989. 
4201.5.  B]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Statute:  There  is  a  quality  assurance  program  that 
stresses  health  outcomes  and  provides  review  by 
physicians  and  other  health  professionals  of  the 
process  followed  in  the  provision  of  health  services 
[Title  XIII  of  the  Public  Health  Service  Act,  Section 
1501(c)(6)]. 

Regulation:  There  is  an  ongoing  qualify  assurance 
program  that  (1)  stresses  health  outcomes  consis- 
tent with  the  state  of  the  art;  (2)  provides  review  by 
physicians  and  other  health  professionals;  (3)  uses 
systematic  data  collection  of  performance  and 
patient  results,  interprets  data  to  practitioners  and 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


59 


I  I.H.I.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Program  Description/Activities  (continued) 


makes  needed  change;  and  (4)  includes  written 
procedures  for  appropriate  remedial  action 
[42  CFR  417.106(a)]. 

Policy:  The  QA  program  provides  for  a  review 
of  health  outcomes  for  the  entire  range  of  care 
provided,  assuring  that  all  demographic  groups, 
care  settings  and  types  of  services  are  included  in 
the  scope  of  the  QA  review  [Manual  for  Federally 
Qualified  Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title 
13,  Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1, 
November  1989,  4201.2.A]. 

Areas  for  review  are  selected  on  the  basis 
(if  high  volume,  high-risk  diagnosis  or  procedure, 
adverse  outcomes,  or  other  problem-focused 
method  consistent  with  the  state  of  the  art  [Manual 
for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance  Organi- 
zations (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.2.B].  • 

The  QA  program  has  written  guidelines 
delineating  a  systematic  process  for  conducting 
quality  assurance  activities,  including:  (1)  identify- 
ing areas  for  review;  (2)  determining  if  problems 
exist  in  those  areas;  (3)  providing  feedback  to 
appropriate  health  professionals;  (4)  recommending 
and  implementing  corrective  actions;  and  (5)  moni- 
toring and  evaluating  the  implementation  of  correc- 
tive actions  to  assure  that  appropriate  changes  have 
been  made  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  15,  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989, 
4201.1.F]. 

The  QA  committee  or  its  designee  reviews 
sources  of  data  on  performance  and  patient  results 
such  as:  enrollee  complaints,  health  professional, 
provider,  and  staff  feedback;  member  survey  results; 
clinical  and  non-clinical  study  results;  referrals 
through  the  utilization  review  system;  and  potential 
problem  areas  identified  through  the  information 
system  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health 
Sen  ice  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989, 
4201.3.B]. 


Medicaid 

Regulation:  There  is  an  internal  quality  assurance 
system  that  provides  for  (1)  review  by  appropriate 
health  professionals;  (2)  systematic  data  collection 
of  performance  and  patient  results;  (3)  interpreta- 
tion of  data  to  the  practitioner;  and  (4)  making 
needed  changes  [42  CFR  434.54]. 

Guidelines:  The  quality  assurance  program 
provides  a  systematic  process  of  quality  assessment 
and  improvement,  including  (1)  the  specification 
of  clinical  or  health  services  delivery  areas  to  be 
monitored;  (2)  the  use  of  clinical  indicators;  (3)  the 
use  of  clinical  care  standards/practice  guidelines; 

(4)  the  analysis  of  clinical  care  and  related  services; 

(5)  the  implementation  of  remedial/corrective 
actions;  (6)  the  assessment  of  effectiveness  of  cor- 
rective actions;  and  (7)  the  evaluation  of  continuity 
and  effectiveness  of  the  quality  assurance  program 
[A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for 
Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medic- 
aid Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration, 
July  6,  1993,  Standard  II,  p.  15-18]. 

The  scope  of  the  quality  assurance  program 
is  comprehensive,  addressing  both  the  quality 
of  clinical  care  and  the  availability,  accessibility, 
coordination,  and  continuity  of  care  [A  Health  Care 
Quality  Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed 
Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health 
Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993, 
Standard  I.B,  p.  14]. 

The  quality  assurance  program  monitors 
quality  of  care  against  clinical  care  or  health  service 
delivery  standards  or  practice  guidelines  based  on 
reasonable  scientific  evidence  and  are  developed  or 
reviewed  by  plan  providers  [A  Health  Care  Quality 
Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care: 
A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care 
Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard 
II.C.1-2,  p.  16]. 


Mine  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


II.H.l.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Program  Description/Activities  (continued) 


Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Policy:  A  quality  management  (Quality  Assurance, 
Quality  Improvement,  etc.)  program  must  be  imple- 
mented at  all  BPHC  funded  organizations  for  plan- 
ning and  decision  making.  [PCER  Clinical  Protocol 
IV.C.l] 

Guidance:  A  written  quality  management  plan 
approved  by  the  clinical  staff  and  the  governing 
board  should  have  the  following  components  and 
activities:  a  QM  Committee  composed  of  appropri- 
ate clinical  and  administrative  staff  which  meets  at 
least  quarterly  and  takes  and  keeps  minutes  which 
are  kept  on  file;  Committee  reports  are  communi- 
cated to  the  administration  and  board  of  directors; 
findings  are  used  to  modify  policy  and  procedures; 
findings  are  used  in  the  strategic  planning  process; 
findings  are  used  in  development  of  the  Health  Care 
Component  of  the  Project  Plan;  data  are  used  in  the 
QM  program;  the  BPHC  funded  organization  has 
gathered  data  which  provides  baselines  for  quality 
improvement  on  selected  criteria;  and  a  procedure 
has  been  established  for  the  random  selection 
of  medical  records  for  periodic  audits. 

NAIC 

The  Health  Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act 
contains  a  fairly  detailed  provision  requiring  health 
maintenance  organizations  to  have  ongoing  internal 
quality  assurance  programs.  [NAIC,  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organization  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation 
Service  -  July  1995,  Section  7.]  In  addition  an  HMO 
must  file  a  description  of  its  proposed  quality  assur- 
ance program  in  its  licensure  application.  [NAIC, 
Health  Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act,  Model 
Regulation  Service  -  July  1995,  Section  3C(12).] 
Some  of  the  issues  specified  in  sections  II.  H.  2. 
through  II.  H.  8.  are  addressed  in  Section  7  of 
the  HMO  Model  Act. 

A  health  carrier  that  provides  managed  care 
must  develop  the  infrastructure  and  disclosure  sys- 
tems necessary  to  measure  the  qualify  of  health  care 


services  provided  to  covered  persons.  The  system 
must  be  appropriate  to  the  type  of  managed  care 
plan  offered  by  the  carrier.  The  system  must  include 
the  systematic  collection,  analysis,  and  reporting 
of  relevant  data  in  accordance  with  statutory  and 
regulatory  requirements.  The  carrier  must  file 
a  written  description  of  the  quality  assessment 
program  with  the  commissioner.  [NAIC,  Quality 
Assessment  and  Improvement  Model  Act,  Model 
Regulation  Service  -  July  1996,  Section  5.] 

A  health  carrier  that  issues  a  closed  plan,  as 
defined  in  the  act,  must,  in  addition  to  establishing 
a  quality  assessment  program,  establish  a  quality 
improvement  program.  Closed  plans  are  essentially 
HMOs.  The  quality  improvement  program  must 
include  the  internal  structures  and  activities  neces- 
sary to  improve  quality  in  the  manner  specified  by 
the  act.  The  program  must  be  structured  to  identify 
practices  that  result  in  improved  health  care 
outcomes,  identify  problematic  utilization  patterns, 
identify  those  providers  that  may  be  responsible  for 
either  exemplary  or  problematic  patterns,  and  foster 
an  environment  of  continuous  quality  improvement. 
[NAIC,  Quality  Assessment  and  Improvement 
Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1996, 
Section  6.] 

JCAHO 

The  leaders  adopt  and  effectively  use  an  approach 
to  performance  improvement  [1996  Joint  Commis- 
sion standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Leadership,  LD.5.2]. 

The  network  has  a  planned,  systematic, 
networkwide  approach  to  designing  processes  and 
measuring,  assessing,  and  improving  its  perfor- 
mance [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health 
Care  Networks,  Improving  Network  Performance. 
PI.l]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


(i! 


I  I.H.I.  Quality  Assurance  Program/  Program  Description/Activities  (continued) 


The  performance-improvement  process  is 
collaborative  and  involves  all  appropriate  network 
and  component  personnel,  clinical  staff,  and 
licensed  independent  practitioners  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI. 1.1]. 

New  processes  are  designed  effectively  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works, Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.2]. 

The  network  systematically  measures  the 
performance  of  functions,  processes,  and  outcomes 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Improving  Network  Performance,  PI. 5]. 

The  network  measures  important  processes 
or  outcomes  of  functions  described  in  this  manual 
that  are  related  to  network  and  member  services 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Improving  Network  Performance,  PI. 3.1]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  impor- 
tant processes  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI. 3. 2]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  access  to 
and  appropriateness  of  care  and  services  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI. 3.2.1]. 

Continuing  measurement  of  processes  yields 
outcome  data  related  to  prevention,  physiological 
function,  functional  status,  and  physical  and  psy- 
chological comfort  of  members  [1996  Joint  Commis- 
sion standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving 
Network  Performance,  PI.3.2.2]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  member 
entry,  assessment,  and  treatment  processes  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Improving  Network  Performance,  PI. 3.2. 3]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  processes 
related  to  the  movement  of  members  among  net- 
work components  and  practitioner  sites  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI. 3.2.4]. 


The  network  continuously  measures  processes 
associated  with  important  adverse  clinical  events 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Improving  Network  Performance,  PI. 3.2. 5]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  preven- 
tive services  and  health-promotion  programs  to 
evaluate  their  effectiveness  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving 
Network  Performance,  PI. 3.2. 6]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  the  use 
of  clinical  resources  [1996  Joint  Commission  stan- 
dards for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI. 3.2. 7]. 

Periodic  measurement  provides  data  about  the 
needs  and  expectations  of  members  and  others;  the 
degree  to  which  these  needs  and  expectations  have 
been  met;  licensed  independent  practitioners' 
needs,  expectations,  and  views  regarding  current 
performance  and  opportunities  for  improvement; 
financial  performance;  findings  from  risk-manage- 
ment activities;  and  findings  from  quality  control 
activities  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network  Perfor- 
mance, PI. 3.3,  Pl.3.3.1,  PI.3.3.2,  PI.3.3.3,  PI.3.3.4, 
PI.3.3.5,  PI.3.3.6]. 

The  network  uses  a  systematic  process  to 
assess  collected  data  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving 
Network  Performance,  PI.4]. 

The  network  uses  statistical  process  control 
techniques  in  the  assessment  process  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.4.1]. 

The  network,  its  components,  and  practitioner 
sites  compare  performance  data  internally  over 
time  and  to  external  sources  of  information  about 
similar  processes  and  outcomes  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.4.2]. 


Illuc  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


(12 


I  I.H.I.  Quality  Assurance  Program/ Program  Description/ Activities  (continued) 


The  network  initiates  intensive  assessment 
when  undesirable  variation  in  performance  is 
discovered  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI.4.3]. 

Assessment  findings  relating  to  an  individual's 
performance  result  in  appropriate  review  and 
follow-up  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network  Perfor- 
mance, PI.4.4]. 

The  network  systematically  communicates 
performance  information  to  each  component  and 
practitioner  site  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI.4.5]. 

The  network  systematically  improves  its 
performance  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI. 5]. 

When  improvement  activities  lead  to  a 
determination  that  there  are  issues  related  to  an 
individual's  performance,  appropriate  action  is 
taken  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health 
Care  Networks,  Improving  Network  Performance, 
PI.5.1]. 

Processes  measured  on  an  ongoing  basis 
include  those  that:  (1)  affect  a  large  percentage  of 
members;  place  members  at  serious  risk  if  not 
performed  well,  or  performed  when  not  indicated 
or  not  performed  when  indicated;  and  (2)  have  been 
or  are  likely  to  be  problem  prone  [1994  Joint 
Commission  Standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PL  3.4.1 -PI  3.4.1.3]. 

Processes  of  special  interest  include:  member 
entry,  assessment  and  treatment;  transition  in  care 
among  network  components;  important  clinical 
events;  preventive  measures  and  health  promotion 
programs;  and  over-utilization,  under-utilization 
and  inefficient  utilization  [1994  Joint  Commission 
Standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving 
Network  Performance,  PL  3.4.2-PI  3.4.2.5]. 


IMCQA 

The  QI  program  is  designed  to  objective^  and 
systematically  monitor  and  evaluate  the  qualih 
and  appropriateness  of  care  and  service  to  mem- 
bers, and  to  pursue  opportunities  for  improvement 
[NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality 
Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.5.0]. 

The  scope  of  the  Ql  program  is  comprehen- 
sive, including  the  quality  of  clinical  care  and 
quality  of  service  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accredita- 
tion, Quality  Management  and  Improvement, 
1996,  QI.5.1]. 

The  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  clinical 
issues  reflects  the  population  served  (e.g.,  age 
groups,  disease  categories  and  special  risk  status), 
clinical  settings  (e.g.,  institutional  and  non-institu- 
tional) and  services  (primary  care  and  major 
specialty  services,  including  mental  health  care) 
[NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality 
Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.5.3,  5.4]. 

The  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  important 
aspects  of  care  and  service  includes  high-volume 
and  high-risk  services,  and  the  care  of  acute  and 
chronic  conditions  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accredita- 
tion, Quality  Management  and  Improvement, 
1996,  QI.6.1]. 

The  MCO  uses  a  variety  of  mechanisms  to 
identify  important  areas  for  improvement  and  to 
set  meaningful  priorities  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  Quality  Management  and  Improve- 
ment, 1996,  QI  6.0]. 

The  MCO  is  accountable  for  adopting  and 
using  practice  guidelines  or  explicit  criteria  that 
are  based  on  reasonable  scientific  evidence  and 
reviewed  by  MCO  providers  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  Quality  Management  and 
Improvement,  1996,  QI.6.2]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


I)') 


II.H.l.  Quality  Assurance  Program/ Program  Description/ Activities  (continued) 


URAC 

The  Network  shall  establish  and  implement  written 
criteria  for  provider  contracting  that  address  quality 
of  care  and  quality  service  (National  Network 
Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  NM  1.1,  2.1 
and  3.1). 

The  Network  shall  develop  and  implement 
a  quality  management  program  that  monitors, 
evaluates,  and  works  to  improve  the  quality  of  care 
and  quality  of  services  provided  by  participating 
Network  hospitals,  physicians,  and  other  health 
care  providers  by  utilizing  a  variety  of  QM  studies, 
reviews,  and  evaluations  such  as:  member  surveys; 
provider  surveys;  the  monitoring  and  investigation 
of  member  complaints  regarding  quality  of  care  and 
quality  of  service;  access  studies;  medical  record 
reviews;  utilization  studies;  and  other  data  analysis 
studies  {National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  QM  5.0  through  5.7). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  The  plan  has  an  arrangement  for  an 
ongoing  evaluation  of  the  quality  of  health  care 
[Minnesota  Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organizations,  62D.04,  Subd.l(b)]. 

The  components  of  the  ongoing  quality 
evaluation  include: 

Clinical  components:  acute  care  hospital,  ambula- 
tory care,  emergency,  mental  health,  preventive 
health  services,  pharmacy,  chemical  dependency, 
other  professional  health  care  services,  home 
health  care,  durable  medical  equipment  and 
skilled  nursing  care. 

Organizational  components:  referrals,  case  manage- 
ment, discharge  planning,  appointment  scheduling, 
second  opinions,  prior  authorization,  provider  reim- 
bursement arrangements,  other  systems,  procedures 
that  affect  the  delivery  of  care. 


Consumer  components:  enrollee  surveys,  enrollee 
complaints,  enrollee  written  and  verbal  comments 
[Chapter  4685,  Department  of  Health,  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations,  4685.1115,  Subp.l]. 

The  plan  conducts  focused  studies  as  part 
of  its  overall  quality  assurance  activities  which 
are  directed  at  problems,  potential  problems  or 
areas  with  potential  for  improvement  and,  as  appro- 
priate, implements  corrective  actions  [Chapter  4685, 
Department  of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organi- 
zations, 4685.1125,  Subp.1-5].  This  provision 
does  not  pertain  to  community  integrated  service 
networks. 

Medicaid:  The  quality  assurance  system  includes 
a  process  by  which  appropriate  health  professionals 
(1)  review  the  delivery  of  services  to  enrollees;  (2) 
evaluate  the  utilization  and  quality  assurance  data 
that  is  collected  to  assess  patient  care  and  plan 
performance;  (3)  convey  the  results  of  performance 
evaluations  to  individual  clinics  and  practitioners; 
(4)  ensure  that  appropriate  corrective  action  is 
taken  in  response  to  any  problem  areas;  and  (5) 
verify  that  the  changes  made  have  been  incorpo- 
rated as  a  permanent  improvement  [Request  for 
Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/General  Assistance 
Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior 
Health  Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan 
Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  Quality  assurance  activities  include: 

•  the  establishment  of  criteria  for  evaluating  the 
appropriateness  of  the  care  provided; 

•  the  review  of  the  plan's  written  clinical  policies 
and  procedures; 

•  the  establishment  and  annual  review  of  written 
protocols  for  patient  care; 

•  the  evaluation  of  the  availability,  accessibility 
and  adequacy  of  personnel,  facilities  and  services 
at  each  plan  site; 

•  the  assessment  of  health  care  continuity; 

•  the  review  of  persistent  or  significant  grievances; 


Blue  <  iross  and  Blue  Shit-Id  Association 


64 


II.H.l.  Quality  Assurance  Program/ Program  Description/Activities  (continued) 


•  the  review  of  medical  records  to  determine  the 
adequacy  of  and  compliance  with  plan  written 
procedures  and  protocols  for  record  keeping 
and  patient  care;  and 

•  the  performance  of  quality  of  care  studies 
which  are  based  upon  health  care  processes 
and  outcomes  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  The  MCP  must  have  internal  quality 
improvement  activities  that  consists  of  objective  and 
systematic  approaches  to  assure,  monitor,  and  eval- 
uate the  quality  of  care  delivered  to  enrollees  and  to 
pursue  continuous  quality  improvement  including 
the  resolution  of  identified  problems  [Ohio  Adminis- 
trative Code,  Chapter  5 10 1:3-26-071  (A)]. 

The  quality  assurance  program  includes 
the  entire  range  of  care  provided  by  the  plan  by 
assuring  that  all  demographic  groups,  care  settings 
and  types  of  services  are  included  in  the  scope  of 
review  [Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101: 
3-26-071  (A)  (2)]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  The  plan  has  arrangements  for  an 
ongoing  quality  assurance  program  [State  of 
Pennsylvania,  Health  Maintenance  Organization 
Act,  Title  40,  Section  1555.1(b)(l)(ii]. 

The  quality  assurance  program  includes  the 
following  scope  and  content: 

•  evaluation  of  a  representative  sample  of  all 
services  provided  in  institutional  and  non-institu- 
tional settings,  including  care  provided  in  private 
practice  offices; 

•  an  appropriate  methodology  for  identifying, 
evaluating  and  correcting  clinical  and  quality 
of  service  problems; 

•  identification  and  application  of  uniform  appro- 
priate quality  standards  to  evaluate  the  quality 
of  care  provided  by  all  providers;  and 


•  quality  of  clinical  care  and  the  quality  of  service 
elements,  including  availability,  aceessibilih  and 
continuity  of  care  [Appendix  I,  Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Health,  HMO  Quality  Assurance 
Standards,  B]. 

The  review  of  quality  of  care  is  not  limited 
to  technical  aspects  of  care  but  includes  availability, 
accessibility  and  continuity  of  care  provided  to 
enrollees  [28  Pa.  Code,  Section  9.74(b)]. 

The  Department  has  informally  adopted  NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation  and  applies  those  stan- 
dards to  licensure  and  ongoing  activities  of  HMOs. 

Medicaid:  The  quality  assurance  system 
includes,  at  a  minimum: 

•  routine  medical  audits  of  primary  care  physician 
sites  at  least  once  every  2  years; 

•  routine  medical  audits  of  each  of  the  other  partic- 
ipating provider  types; 

•  standards  of  clinical  care  in  the  form  of  a  written, 
professionally  developed  and  accepted  expression 
of  desired  performance  of  behavior  by  a  provider 
under  specific  sets  of  circumstances; 

•  protocols  that  represent  an  accepted  step-by-step 
set  of  instructions  to  achieve  the  standards  of 
care; 

•  a  quality  assessment  process  that  measures  the 
clinical  care  provided  to  enrollees  against  formal- 
ized standards; 

•  focused  medical  care  evaluations  that  are 
employed  when  indicators  suggest  that  quality 
may  need  to  be  studied;  and 

•  problem-oriented  clinical  studies  of  individual 
care  [Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public  Welfare, 
Operating  Agreement,  Section  14,  Quality  Assur- 
ance and  Utilization  Review,  14.3  and  14.4]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


II.H.2.  Quality  Assurance  Program/ 
Written  Plan 


Medicare 

Policy:  Evidence  of  an  ongoing  quality  assurance 
program  includes  a  written  plan  which  documents 
all  requirements  are  met.  It  describes  specific 
activities  to  be  undertaken  by  the  program  over 
the  coming  year  and  indicates  methodologies  used 
and  the  personnel  responsible  for  the  activities.  The 
program  provides  for  keeping  physicians  and  other 
providers  informed  of  the  written  plan  [Manual  for 
Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance  Organiza- 
tions (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmit- 
tal No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.1.A]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Policy:  Evidence  of  an  ongoing  quality  assurance 
program  includes  a  written  plan  which  documents 
all  requirements  are  met.  It  describes  specific  activi- 
ties to  be  undertaken  by  the  program  over  the  com- 
ing year  and  indicates  methodologies  used  and  the 
personnel  responsible  for  the  activities.  The  pro- 
gram provides  for  keeping  physicians  and  other 
providers  informed  of  the  written  plan  [Manual  for 
Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance  Organiza- 
tions (Title  15,  Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmit- 
tal No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.1. A]. 

Medicaid 

Guidelines:  There  is  a  written  description  of  a 
plan's  quality  assurance  program  which  addresses 
(1)  goals  and  objectives;  (2)  scope;  (3)  specific  activ- 
ities; (4)  continuous  activity;  (5)  provider  review; 
and  (6)  focus  on  health  outcomes  [A  Health  Care 
Quality  Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed 
Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health 
Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993, 
Standard  I,  p.  14-15]. 


The  quality  assurance  program  has  written 
guidelines  for  its  quality  of  care  studies  and  related 
activities  [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  Sys- 
tem for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States, 
Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Adminis- 
tration, July  6,  1995,  Standard  II,  p.  15]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Policy:  There  is  a  written  quality  management 
plan  approved  by  the  governing  and/or  manage- 
ment body.  [PCER  Clinical  Protocol  I  V.C.I] 

MAIC 

The  requirements  for  the  written  description  of 
the  quality  assessment  program  are  not  specified, 
except  that  it  must  contain  a  certification  signed  by 
one  of  the  health  carrier's  corporate  officers  that  the 
program  meets  the  requirements  of  the  act.  [NAIC, 
Quality  Assessment  and  Improvement  Model  Act, 
Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1996,  Section  5D.] 

The  requirements  for  the  written  description 
of  the  quality  improvement  plan  are  detailed.  The 
description  must  include  a  written  statement  of 
the  objectives,  lines  of  authority  and  accountability, 
evaluation  tools,  including  data  collection  responsi- 
bilities, and  performance  improvement  activities, 
and  it  must  specify  an  annual  effectiveness  review 
of  the  program.  It  must  also  describe,  among  other 
things,  how  the  health  carrier  will:  identify  targeted 
diagnoses  and  treatments  for  review;  collect  and 
analyze  information  from  a  variety  of  sources;  com- 
pare the  program  findings  with  past  performance 
and  internal  and  external  benchmarks;  measure 
the  performance  of  participating  providers  and  take 
appropriate  corrective  action  when  necessary; 
utilize  treatment  protocols  and  practice  parameters; 


llluc  Crux'-  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


(ill 


II.H.2.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Written  Plan  (continued) 


evaluate  access  to  care  according  to  standards 
established  by  statute,  regulation,  or  the  commis- 
sioner, and  describe  the  health  carrier's  strategy 
for  integrating  public  health  goals  with  its  managed 
care  plans;  implement  improvement  strategies 
related  to  program  findings;  and  evaluate  at  least 
annually  improvement  strategies  related  to  program 
findings.  [NAIC,  Quality  Assessment  and  Improve- 
ment Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July 
1996,  Section  6C] 

JCAHO 

The  network  has  a  planned,  systematic,  network- 
wide  approach  to  designing  processes  and  measur- 
ing, assessing,  and  improving  its  performance 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Improving  Network  Pejformance,  PL  1] . 

Responsibility  is  assigned  for  acting  on  perfor- 
mance improvement  recommendations  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Leadership,  LD.4.3.1.1]. 

NCQA 

There  is  a  written  description  of  the  QI  program 
that  outlines  program  structure  and  design  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality  Management 
and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.1.1]  that  is  reviewed 
annually  and  updated  as  necessary  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality  Management 
and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.1.2]. 

The  role,  structure  and  function,  including 
frequency  of  meetings,  of  the  QI  committee  are 
specified  in  the  written  plan  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  Quality  Management  and 
Improvement,  1996,  QI.1.6]. 

There  is  an  annual  QI  work  plan  that  includes: 
objectives,  scope  and  planned  projects  for  the  year; 
planned  monitoring  of  previously  identified  issues, 
including  tracking  of  issues  over  time;  and  planned 


evaluation  of  the  QI  system  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  Quality  Management  and  Improve 
ment,  1996,  QI  1.10]. 

URAC 

The  Network  shall  develop  and  formally  adopt  a 
Network  QM  Plan  that  contains  information  about: 

•  the  purpose  and  scope  of  the  QM  Program; 

•  the  organization  and  structure  of  the  committee 
responsible  for  QM; 

•  the  QM  responsibilities  of  the  QM  committee, 
the  Medical  Director,  and  the  QM  staff; 

•  how  the  Network  documents,  investigates,  and 
resolves  quality  of  care  and  quality  of  service 
complaints; 

•  the  types  of  reviews,  surveys,  evaluations,  and 
monitoring  activities  employed  as  part  of  the 
QM  Program  (may  be  contained  in  an  annual 
QM  work  plan); 

•  how  the  network  takes  corrective  action  to 
resolve  confirmed  quality  of  care  and  quality 
of  service  problems; 

•  how  the  Network  provides  QM  documentation 
and  reporting  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  QM  8.0  to  QM  8.7). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  The  plan  has  a  written  quality  assurance 
plan  that  includes  the  following:  (1)  mission  state- 
ment; (2)  philosophy;  (3)  goals  and  objectives;  (4) 
organizational  structure;  (5)  staffing  and  contractual 
arrangements;  (6)  a  system  for  communicating 
information  regarding  quality  assurance  activities; 
(7)  the  scope  of  the  program;  and  (8)  a  description 
of  peer  review  activities  [Chapter  4685,  Department 
of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1110,  Subp.l].  Community  integrated  service 
networks,  while  required  to  have  a  quality  assur- 
ance program,  do  not  have  to  file  a  written  plan 
as  a  condition  of  licensure. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


<i7 


II. II. 2.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Written  Plan  (continued) 


Ohio 

All  plans:  There  is  a  written  plan  to  implement 
and  maintain  an  ongoing  program  to  assure  that 
basic  health  services  are  provided  in  accordance 
with  accepted  standards  of  medical  practice.  This 
plan  describes  the  goals  and  objectives,  organiza- 
tional arrangements  and  the  methodology  for 
ongoing  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  health 
care  services  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  MCPs  must  submit  written  quality 
improvement  program  meeting  state  specifications 
(Q1P)  to  ODHS  annually  for  review  and  approval 
[Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101: 
3-26-071  (B)J. 


There  is  an  annual  work  plan  of  expected 
accomplishments  which  includes  a  schedule  of 
clinical  standards  to  be  developed,  medical  care 
evaluations  to  be  completed,  and  other  key  quality 
assurance  activities  to  be  completed  [Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agree- 
ment, Section  14,  Quality  Assurance  and  Utilization 
Review,  Attachment  IV,  U]. 


Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  There  is  a  written  procedure  to  provide 
for  ongoing  review,  analysis,  assessment  and 
subsequent  actions  for  improvement  of  the  quality 
of  health  care  services  delivered  to  enrollees 
[28  Pa.  Code,  Section  9.74(a)]. 

The  Board  of  Directors  adopts  a  written 
quality  assurance  program  that  delineates  an  identi- 
fiable structure  responsible  for  performing  quality 
assurance  functions  within  the  plan  [Appendix  I, 
Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health,  HMO  Quality 
Assurance  Standards,  A.  1.1]. 

The  Department  has  informally  adopted 
NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation  and  applies  those 
standards  to  the  licensure  and  regulation  of  HMOs. 

Medicaid:  There  is  a  written  quality  assurance 
plan,  updated  at  least  annually,  which  defines  the 
organization  and  objectives  of  the  quality  assurance 
program  [Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public 
Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section  14,  Quality 
Assurance  and  Utilization  Review,  Attachment  IV,  T]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


68 


II.H.3.  Quality  Assurance  Program/ 
Structure 


Medicare 

Policy:  There  is  a  OA  committee  which  (1)  meets 
on  a  regular  basis  and  documents  its  activities  and 
actions;  (2)  routinely  reports  to  the  governing  body 
on  its  activities  and  actions;  (3)  is  directed  by  an 
HMO  physician  and  staffed  by  adequate  and  appro- 
priate staff  personnel.  Participants  in  the  QA  pro- 
gram are  HMO-affiliated  health  professionals  who 
are  representative  of  primary  care  and  commonly 
used  specialists  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public 
Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November 
1989,  4201.1.E]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Policy:  There  is  a  QA  committee  which  (1)  meets 
on  a  regular  basis  and  documents  its  activities  and 
actions;  (2)  routinely  reports  to  the  governing  body 
on  its  activities  and  actions;  (3)  is  directed  by  an 
HMO  physician.  Participants  in  the  QA  program 
are  HMO -affiliated  health  professionals  who  are 
representative  of  primary  care  and  commonly  used 
specialists  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  I,  November  1989, 
4201.  IE]. 

Medicaid 

Guidelines:  The  quality  assurance  program  has 
an  identifiable  structure  responsible  for  performing 
QA  functions  and  has  (1)  regular  meetings;  (2) 
established  parameters  for  operating;  (3)  documen- 
tation of  activities,  findings,  recommendations  and 
actions;  (4)  accountability  to  the  Governing  Body  or 
its  designee;  and  (5)  active  participation  from  plan 


providers  [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement 
System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for 
States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard  IV,  pp.  19-20]. 

There  is  a  designated  senior  executive  who  is 
responsible  for  implementation  of  the  quality  assur- 
ance program  [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement 
System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for 
States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard  V,  p.  20]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Program  Expectation:  A  QM  Committee  composed 
of  appropriate  clinical  and  administrative  staff 
which  meets  at  least  quarterly  and  takes  and  keeps 
minutes  which  are  kept  on  file;  Committee  reports 
are  communicated  to  the  administration  and  board 
of  directors.  [PCEB  Clinical  Protocol  IV.C.l] 

NAIC 

The  Chief  Medical  Officer  or  Clinical  Director  of 
the  health  carrier  has  primary  responsibility  for 
the  quality  assessment  and  quality  improvement 
activities  carried  out  by,  or  on  behalf  of,  the  health 
carrier,  and  for  ensuring  that  all  requirements  of  the 
act  are  met.  The  commissioner  will  hold  the  health 
carrier  responsible  for  the  actions  of  the  Chief 
Medical  Officer  or  Clinical  Director.  [NAIC,  Quality 
Assessment  and  Improvement  Model  Act,  Model 
Begulation  Service  -  July  1996,  Section  7.] 

A  health  carrier's  quality  improvement  plan 
must  describe  the  lines  of  authority  and  account- 
ability for  the  organizational  program.  [NAIC,  Qual- 
ity Assessment  and  Improvement  Model  Act,  Model 
Regulation  Service  -  July  1996,  Section  6C(1).] 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


()<l 


II.H.3.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Structure  (continued) 


JCAHO 

The  network  has  a  planned,  systematic,  network- 
wide  approach  to  designing  processes  and  measur- 
ing, assessing,  and  improving  its  performance 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.  1  ] . 

The  performance-improvement  process  is 
collaborative  and  involves  all  appropriate  network 
and  component  personnel,  clinical  staff,  and 
licensed  independent  practitioners  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.  1.1]. 

Responsibility  is  assigned  for  acting  on  perfor- 
mance improvement  recommendations  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Leadership,  LD.4.3.1.1]. 

NCQA 

A  designated  senior  executive  is  responsible  for 
program  implementation  [NCQA  Accreditation 
Standards,  Quality  Management  and  Improvement, 
1996,  QI.  1.3]  and  the  medical  director  has  substan- 
tial involvement  in  QI  activities  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  Quality  Management  and 
Improvement,  1996,  QI.1.4]. 

A  committee  oversees  and  is  involved  in  QI 
activities  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Qual- 
ity Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.  1.5]. 

There  are  records  reflecting  actions  of  the 
eommittee  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Quality  Management  and  Improvement,  1996, 
QI  1.9]. 


URAC 

The  Network  shall  establish  a  committee  that  has 
responsibility  for  QM  that: 

•  has  delegated  authority  from  the  Network's 
governing  body  or  corporate  management  to 
conduct  the  QM  Program; 

•  is  accountable  to  the  governing  body  or 
corporate  management  for  the  QM  Program; 

•  includes  participating  Network  providers; 

•  meets  at  least  quarterly; 

•  maintains  minutes  of  all  committee  meetings 
and  documents  all  QM  action  and  activities; 

•  evaluates  and  reports  on  the  overall  effectiveness 
of  the  QM  Program  {National  Network  Accredita- 
tion Standards,  April  1996,  QM  1.0  to  QM  1.6) 

The  Network  shall  employ,  contract  with, 
or  appoint  a  licensed  physician  as  Network  Medical 
Director  who  is  responsible  for  the  clinical  aspects 
of  the  Network's  QM  Program,  and  is  responsible  for 
interfacing  and  communicating  with  participating 
providers  on  QM  issues  and  problems.  Specialty 
Networks  may  have  a  Clinical  Director  rather  than 
a  Medical  Director.  The  Clinical  Director  shall  be 
trained  and  licensed  or  certified  in  a  health  care 
specialty  appropriate  to  the  type  of  Network 
(National  Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April 
1996,  QM  2.0,  2.1  and  2.2). 

The  Network  shall  establish  and  implement 
a  mechanism  to  report  quality  of  care  and  quality 
of  service  complaints  at  least  quarterly  to  Network 
management  or  to  the  Network  committee  responsi- 
ble for  QM  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  QM  12.0). 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


7(1 


/ 

II.H.5.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Structure  (continued) 


Minnesota 

All  plans:  The  governing  body  designates  a  quality 
assurance  entity  that  may  be  a  person  or  persons  to 
be  responsible  for  operation  of  the  quality  assurance 
program  activities  [Chapter  4685,  Department  of 
Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1110,  Subp.3]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  There  is  a  committee  responsible  for 
quality  assurance  activities,  accountable  to  the 
governing  body,  which  meets  quarterly  and  main- 
tains a  formal  record  of  its  activities  [Procedural, 
(ODH)]. 

The  quality  assurance  committee  includes, 
but  is  not  limited  to,  the  medical  director;  represen- 
tation of  those  health  care  services  provided  by 
the  plan;  representation  from  plan  management; 
and  representation  from  plan  enrollment 
[Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  MCPs  must  submit  written  quality 
improvement  program  (QIP)  meeting  state 
specifications  to  ODHS  annually  for  review  and 
approval  [Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter 
5101:  3-26-071  (B)]. 

The  MCP  must  establish  appropriate  adminis- 
trative procedures  to  ensure  the  ongoing  operation 
and  documentation  of  specified  quality  improve- 
ment activities  [OAC  5101:3-26-071  (H)]. 


The  quality  assurance  program  has  an 
identifiable  structure  with  the  designation  of  a 
person  responsible  for  quality  assurance  activities 
[Appendix  I,  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health, 
HMO  Quality  Assurance  Standards,  A.l.l]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  establishes  and  maintains 
a  Quality  Assurance  Committee  representative  of 
the  service  community  and  providers  [Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agree- 
ment, Section  14,  Quality  Assurance  and  Utilization 
Review,  14.7]. 


Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  A  medical  director  is  responsible  for 
implementation  of  the  quality  assurance  program 
[28  Pa.  Code,  Section  9.76(b)]. 

The  structure  and  operation  of  the  plan's 
quality  assurance  program  involves  physicians 
who  are  contracting  with  or  employed  by  the  plan 
[Appendix  I,  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health, 
HMO  Quality  Assurance  Standards,  A.  1.5]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


71 


II.H.4.  Quality  Assurance  Program/ 
Resources,  People  and  Materials 


Medicare 

Policy:  The  QA  program  is  appropriately  structured, 
directed,  evaluated  and  staffed  to  assure  that  activi- 
ties are  continuously  performed  and  are  effective 
[Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  15,  Public  Health  Service  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.1.B]. 

The  QA  program  is  staffed  by  adequate  and 
appropriate  support  personnel  [Manual  for  Feder- 
ally Qualified  Healtb  Maintenance  Organizations 
(Title  15,  Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal 
No.  I,  November  1989,  420 1.1. E]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Policy:  The  QA  program  is  appropriately  structured, 
directed,  evaluated  and  staffed  to  assure  that  activi- 
ties are  continuously  performed  and  are  effective 
[Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  15,  Public  Health  Service  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.1.B]. 

The  QA  program  is  staffed  by  adequate  and 
appropriate  support  personnel  [Manual  for  Feder- 
ally Qualified  Health  Maintenance  Organizations 
(Title  15,  Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal 
No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.1.E]. 

Medicaid 

Guidelines:  The  quality  assurance  program  has 
sufficient  material  resources  and  staff  with  the  nec- 
essary education,  experience  or  training  to  effec- 
tively carry  out  its  specified  activities  [A  Health  Care 
Quality  Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed 
Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health 
Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1995,  Stan- 
dard VI,  p.  20]. 


Bu  reau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Program  Expectation:  A  QM  Committee  composed 
of  appropriate  clinical  and  administrative  staff 
which  meets  at  least  quarterly  and  takes  and  keeps 
minutes  which  are  kept  on  file;  Committee  reports 
are  communicated  to  the  administration  and  board 
of  directors.  [PCER  Clinical  Protocol  IV.C.l] 

NAIC 

The  Quality  Assessment  and  Improvement  Model 
Act  contains  no  explicit  criteria  for  determining  the 
adequacy  of  a  health  carrier's  support  for  its  quality 
assurance  and  improvement  programs  and  activi- 
ties. The  act  does,  however,  require  a  health  carrier 
to  conduct  an  annual  effectiveness  review  of  its 
quality  improvement  program,  and  presumably 
this  review  would  require  the  carrier  to  evaluate  the 
adequacy  of  the  resources  devoted  to  the  program. 
[NAIC,  Quality  Assessment  and  Improvement 
Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1996, 
Section  6C(1).J 

JCAHO 

The  leaders  allocate  adequate  resources  for  mea- 
suring, assessing,  and  improving  the  network's 
performance  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Leadership,  LD.5.5]. 

The  performance-improvement  process  is 
collaborative  and  involves  all  appropriate  network 
and  component  personnel,  clinical  staff,  and 
licensed  independent  practitioners  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.  1.1]. 

The  network  uses  statistical  process  control 
techniques  in  the  assessment  process  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.4.1]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


11 


II.H.4.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Resources,  People  and  Material  (continued) 


The  network,  its  components,  and  practitioner 
sites  compare  performance  data  internally  over 
time  and  to  external  sources  of  information  about 
similar  processes  and  outcomes  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.4.2]. 

NCQA 

Organizational  arrangements  and  responsibilities 
for  quality  improvement  processes  are  clearly 
defined  and  assigned  to  appropriate  individuals 
[NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality 
Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.1.0]. 

Resources  dedicated  to  the  program  are 
adequate  to  meet  needs  (e.g.,  personnel,  analytic 
capabilities  or  data  resources)  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  Quality  Management  and 
Improvement,  1996,  QI.  1.8]. 

URAC 

The  Network  shall  employ,  contract  with,  or  appoint 
an  adequate  number  of  QM  staff  who  are  knowl- 
edgeable about  the  principles  and  procedures  of 
QM  {National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  QM  3.0). 

The  Network  shall  provide  for  a  QM  staff 
training  and  development  program  that  includes 
orientation  and  continuing  training  in  the  principles 
and  procedures  of  managed  care  QM,  and  URAC 
National  Network  Accreditation  Standards  for  QM 
{National  Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April 
1996,  QM  4.0,  4.1  and  4.2). 

The  Network  should  expand  its  QM  staff 
resources  as  the  Network  matures  and  increases 
in  membership  and  experience  {National  Network 
Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  QM  6.0). 

The  Network  shall  update  its  QM  Plan  at  least 
annually  to  reflect  changes  in  staffing  and  staff 
responsibilities  {National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  QM  9.0  and  9.1). 


Minnesota 

All  plans:  There  are  sufficient  administrative 
and  clinical  staff  with  knowledge  and  experience 
to  assist  in  carrying  out  quality  assurance  activities, 
based  on  the  number  of  enrollees,  number  of 
providers,  the  variety  of  health  care  services  offered, 
the  organizational  structure  and  the  quality  assur- 
ance staffing  levels  used  by  other  plans  with  similar 
functions  [Chapter  4685,  Department  of  Health, 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations,  4685.1110, 
Subp.5]. 

Any  plan  staff  or  contractees  conducting 
quality  assurance  activities  are  qualified  by  virtue  of 
training  and  experience  [Chapter  4685,  Department 
of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1110,  Subp.12]. 

All  Plans  -  No  standard 

Medicaid:  The  dedication  to  the  QIP  of  sufficient 
resources  and  staff  with  the  necessary  education, 
experience  and  training  [Ohio  Administrative  Code, 
Chapter  5101:3-26-071  (H)  (2)]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  The  plan's  quality  assurance  program 
demonstrates  the  presence  of  adequate  support 
staff  to  carry  out  its  responsibilities  [Appendix  I, 
Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health,  HMO  Quality 
Assurance  Standards,  A.1.3]. 

Also  see  NCQA  Standards  which  have  been 
informally  adopted  and  are  used  as  the  basis  for 
licensure  and  ongoing  regulation. 

Medicaid:  There  is  adequate  staffing  of  all  quality 
assurance  functions  [Pennsylvania  Department 
of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section 
14,  Quality  Assurance  and  Utilization  Review, 
Attachment  IV]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


71 


II.H.5.  Quality  Assurance  Program/ 
Performance  Measurement 


Medicare 

Regulation:  The  quality  assurance  program  stresses 
health  outcomes  consistent  with  the  state-of-the-art 
[42  CFR  417.418  and  42  CFR  417.106(a)(1)]. 

Contract:  Effective  January  1997,  HCFA  intends 
to  require  risk-based  and  cost-based  contractors  to 
report  HEDIS  3.0  data  and  participate  in  a  stan- 
dardized member  satisfaction  survey  developed 
by  the  Agency  for  Health  Care  Policy  and  Research, 
DHHS;  this  survey  will  satisfy  the  HEDIS  domain, 
Satisfaction  With  the  Experience  of  Care.  The 
Medicare  -  related  Effectiveness  of  Care  measures 
will  be  required,  as  well  as  specific  performance 
measures  from  the  other  six  domains:  Access  To 
and  Availability  of  Care;  Use  of  Services;  Cost  of 
Care;  Health  Plan  Stability;  Informed  Health  Care 
Choices;  and  Health  Plan  Descriptive  Information. 

The  Medicare  Program  has  several  perfor- 
mance initiatives  under  way.  The  diabetes  project 
involves  five  PROs  and  25  HMOs,  as  well  as  three 
PROs  on  the  fee-for-service  side.  The  following 
clinical  aspects  of  diabetes  mellitus  care  are  being 
assessed:  physician  visits;  general  prevention  (most 
recent  influenza  immunization);  eye  and  foot  care; 
blood  pressure  monitoring;  renal  function  monitor- 
ing and  therapy;  lipid  and  glucose  monitoring; 
and  counseling  (anti-smoking,  diet). 

Federal  Qualification 

Regulation:  The  quality  assurance  program  stresses 
health  outcomes  consistent  with  the  state-of-the-art 
[42  CFR  417.418]. 


Medicaid 

Medicare  HEDIS  has  been  completed  and  several 
Medicaid  Programs  are  collecting  some  of  the 
quality  measures.  The  Medicaid  HEDIS  will  be 
incorporated  into  HEDIS  3.0. 

Guidelines:  At  a  minimum,  performance  measure- 
ments for  childhood  immunization  and  prenatal 
care  are  collected  by  the  plan  or  as  a  part  of  the 
external  quality  review  process  [A  Health  Care 
quality  Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed 
Care:  A  Guide  to  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health 
Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993, 
Standard  II.B]. 

1115  Waiver  Terms  and  Conditions:  New  waivers 
require  the  collection  of  program  appropriate 
performance  measurements  (i.e.,  childhood  immu- 
nization, pediatric  asthma,  pre-natal  care,  and  a 
state  specific  measure). 

1915(b)  Waivers:  New  waivers  require  the  collec- 
tion of  program  appropriate  performance  measure- 
ments (i.e.,  childhood  immunizations,  pediatric 
asthma,  prenatal  care,  and  a  measurement  of  the 
state's  choice). 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Program  Expectation:  BPHC  has  issued  a  formal 
"Clinical  Measures"  process  which  calls  for  all 
grantees  to  implement  a  specific  set  of  indicators 
for  each  of  the  five  defined  life  cycles.  There  is  to 
be  at  least  annual  monitoring  of  the  value  of  these 
indicators  compared  to  a  base  line  set  of  data.  This 
clinical  measures  process  is  fully  integrated  into 
the  overall  clinical  QM  process.  [PCER  Clinical 
Protocol  rV.C.7] 


Blur  Cross  ami  liluc-  Shield  Association 


71 


[I.H.5.  Quality  Assurance  Program/ Performance  Measurement  (continued) 


NAIC 

The  Quality  Assessment  and  Improvement  Model 
Act  does  not  specif}7  any  standardized  indicators, 
such  as  HEDIS,  that  must  be  used  for  evaluating 
the  performance  of  a  managed  care  plan. 

The  NAIC  ma>  develop  ;i  Data  Reporting 
Model  Act  that  might  address  thi>  Mibject  in  nioi'e 
detail. 

JCAHO 

The  network  defines,  captures,  analyzes,  transmits, 
and  reports  aggregated  data  and  information  that 
supports  managerial  decision,  operations,  perfor- 
mance-improvement activities,  and  member  care 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Management  of  Information,  IM.7]. 

Occurrences  of  measures  (indicators)  of  care 
processes  and  outcomes  for  assessing  performance 
can  be  aggregated  [1996  Joint  Commission  stan- 
dards for  Health  Care  Networks,  Management  of 
Information,  IM.7.1]. 

The  network,  its  components,  and  practitioner 
sites  compare  performance  data  internally  over 
time  and  to  external  sources  of  information  about 
similar  processes  and  outcomes  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.4.2]. 

NCQA 

The  uses  quality  indicators  that  are  objective, 
measurable  and  based  on  current  knowledge 
and  clinical  experience  to  monitor  and  evaluate 
each  important  aspect  of  care  and  service  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality  Management 
and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.9.1]. 


URAC 

The  Network  should  establish,  with  participating 
provider  input,  a  provider  performance  evaluation 
program  that: 

•  evaluates  provider  performance  in  terms  of 
appropriate  cost,  utilization,  quality',  and  cus- 
tomer serv  ice  data  and  information; 

•  takes  into  account  and,  if  necessary,  adjusts 
for  relevant  case  mix  and  patient  demographic 
information; 

•  takes  into  account  the  providers  specialty  and 
subspecialty'  in  comparing  individual  perfor- 
mance to  group  norms;  and 

•  provides  periodic  feedback  to  participating 
providers  regarding  their  performance  {National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996. 
NM  16.0  to  NM  16.4). 

The  Network  shall  provide  a  mechanism  to 
deal  with  participating  providers  who  violate  the 
Network's  quality  of  care  and  quality  of  service  stan- 
dards. This  includes  a  review  of  practices,  sen  ices, 
and  professional  competency  of  providers  by  the 
Network  committee  responsible  for  QM  (National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards.  April  1996. 
QM  13.2). 

The  Network  shall  implement  a  mechanism  to 
en  s  u re  that  all  qualit\  of  care  and  qualih  ol  sen  ice 
complaints  are  fonvarded  to  the  Network's  QM 
Committee  for  review,  investigation,  and  when 
necessary,  corrective  action  (National  Network 
Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  QM  10.0). 

The  Network  shall  implement  a  written  QM 
corrective  action  plan  in  response  to  confirmed 
quality  of  care  and  quality  of  sen  ice  problems 
(National  Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April 
1996,  QM  11.0). 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


75 


II.H.5.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Performance  Measurement  (continued) 


Minnesota 

Medicaid:  Performance  measurements  are  collected 
as  part  of  the  external  quality  review  process  which 
includes  the  collection  of  quality  indicators  in  the 
areas  of  childhood  immunization,  prenatal  care 
and  other  areas  of  special  interest  as  defined  by  the 
Medicaid  agency  each  year  [Requests  for  Proposals, 
Medical  Assistance/General  Assistance  Medical 
Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior  Health 
Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan  Contracts, 
State  of  Minnesota]. 

Ohio 

Medicaid:  ODHS  will  select  an  external  quality 
review  organization  (EQRO)  to  conduct  an  annual 
quality  improvement  (QI)  evaluation  of  MCPs  with 
ODHS  provider  agreements.  Review  will  include 
clinical  quality  of  care  studies  and  outcome  studies. 
[Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-07 
(A)  (B)  (2)  (3)]. 

HMOs  also  required  to  meet  several  minimum 
performance  standards  (measures)  each  year  focus- 
ing on  preventive  health  care  services,  pediatric 
asthma,  use  of  mental  health/substance  abuse  ser- 
vices, consumer  satisfaction  and  an  area  selected 
by  ODHS  and  the  HMOs  [SFY  1997  RFP  Section  X 
(E)  p.  62]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  Performance  measurements  are  collected 
as  part  of  the  tri-annual  external  quality  review 
process  and  as  a  part  of  periodic  monitoring.  Dur- 
ing this  process,  the  external  review  entity  validates 
quality  indicators  used  by  the  plan  in  conducting 
their  own  focused  clinical  care  studies  [Invitation 
to  Qualify  as  an  Approved  HMO  Quality  Review 
Organization,  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health, 
Appendix  II.  External  Assessment  Process,  Responsi- 
bilities of  Review  Organizations]. 


Also  see  NCQA  Standards  which  have  been 
informally  adopted  and  are  used  as  the  basis  for 
licensure  and  ongoing  regulation. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  is  required  to  submit 
semi-annual  reports  to  the  state,  including 
performance  measurements  on  prenatal  care, 
immunizations,  preventive  care  and  hypertension 
[Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public  Welfare, 
Operating  Agreement,  Section  13.E  (7)]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


711 


II.H.6.  Quality  Assurance  Program/ 
Systematic  Data  Collection 


Medicare 

Regulation:  The  plan  uses  a  systematic  data  collec- 
tion of  performance  and  patient  results,  provides 
interpretation  of  these  data  to  its  practitioners,  and 
institutes  needed  change  [42  CFR  417.418  and  42 
CFR  417.106(a)(3)]. 

Policy:  The  plan  maintains  data  from  multiple 
sources,  such  as:  medical  records;  enrollee  com- 
plaints; feedback  from  physicians,  other  health  pro- 
fessionals and  staff;  member  survey  results;  clinical 
and  non-clinical  study  results;  referrals  through  the 
utilization  review  system;  and  potential  problem 
areas  identified  through  the  information  system 
[Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act), 
Transmittal  No.l,  November  1989,  4201.4.B]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Statute:  There  are  effective  procedures  for  develop- 
ing, compiling,  evaluating  and  reporting  statistics 
and  other  information  relating  to  cost;  patterns  of 
service  utilization;  availability,  accessibility  and 
acceptability  of  services;  to  the  extent  possible,  the 
health  status  of  members;  and  other  information  as 
required  by  the  Secretary  [Title  XIII  of  the  Public 
Health  Service  Act,  Section  1301(c)(8)]. 

Regulation:  The  plan  uses  a  systematic  data  collec- 
tion of  performance  and  patient  results,  provides 
interpretation  of  these  data  to  its  practitioners,  and 
institutes  needed  change  [42  CFR  417.106(a)(3)]. 


There  are  effective  procedures  to  develop,  compile, 
evaluate  and  report  the  following  information: 

•  patterns  of  utilization  of  services 

•  availability,  accessibility  and  acceptability  of 
services 

•  to  the  extent  practical,  developments  in  the 
health  status  of  enrollees  [42  CFR  417.126(a)]. 

Policy:  The  plan  maintains  data  from  multiple 
sources,  such  as:  medical  records;  enrollee  com- 
plaints; feedback  from  physicians,  other  health 
professionals  and  staff;  member  survey  results; 
clinical  and  non-clinical  study  results;  referrals 
through  the  utilization  review  system;  and  potential 
problem  areas  identified  through  the  information 
system  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989, 
4201.4.B]. 

Medicaid 

Regulation:  The  internal  quality  assurance  system 
provides  for  the  systematic  data  collection  of  perfor- 
mance and  patient  results  [42  CFR  434.34(c)]. 

Periodic  medical  audits  of  prepaid  health  plans 
identify  and  collect  management  data  for  use  by 
medical  audit  personnel  and  provide  that  such  data 
include  reasons  for  enrollment  and  termination  and 
use  of  services  [42  CFR  434.53(b)(2)(3)]. 

1115  Waiver  Terms  and  Conditions:  Waivers 
require  the  collection  of  an  encounter  data  set 
from  hospital/inpatient  and  ambulatory/outpatient 
care  settings. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


77 


II. H. 6.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Systematic  Data  Collection  (continued) 


Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Guidance:  BPHC  funded  organizations  may  use  the 
following  data  in  improving  the  quality  of  services: 
Acute  illness  quality  of  care  indicators;  Case  man- 
agement; Chronic  disease  quality  of  care  indicators; 
Clinical  outcomes  and  data,  e.g.  normal  weight 
babies,  controlled  diabetes,  etc.;  Demographic  data; 
Ongoing  community  assessment  data;  Patient 
satisfaction;  Show/no  show  data;  Utilization  data; 
Productivity  data;  Medicaid  Hedis  3.0.  [PCER  Clini- 
cal Protocol  IV.C.2.] 

NAIC 

A  health  carrier  must  collect  and  analyze  data  in  a 
systematic  way  to  implement  its  quality  assessment 
and  quality  improvement  programs.  [NAIC,  Quality 
Assessment  and  Improvement  Model  Act,  Model 
Regulation  Service  -  July  1996,  Sections  5A,  6A, 
and  6C(2)(c)(iii).] 

A  health  carrier  that  conducts  utilization 
review  must  have  a  written  document  that 
describes,  among  other  things,  its  data  collection 
processes  and  analytical  methods  used  to  assess 
the  utilization  of  health  care  services.  The  carrier's 
data  systems  must  be  sufficient  to  support  utiliza- 
tion review  program  activities  and  generate  man- 
agement reports  that  will  enable  the  carrier  to 
monitor  and  manage  health  care  services  effectively. 
[NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Utilization  Review  Model 
Act,  6/4/96,  Sections  7A(5)  and  8E.] 

The  NAIC  may  develop  a  Data  Reporting 
Model  Act  that  would  address  this  subject  in  more 
detail. 

JCAHO 

Data  are  continuously  collected,  aggregated,  and 
analyzed  for  patterns  and  trends  to  provide  feedback 
to  personnel  and  clinical  staff  and  to  identify  and 
respond  to  their  learning  needs  [1996  Joint  Com- 
mission standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Management  of  Human  Resources,  HR.2.3]. 


Whenever  possible,  minimum  data  sets,  data 
definitions,  codes,  classifications,  and  terminology 
are  standardized  throughout  the  network  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Management  of  Information,  IM.3]. 

Data  collection  is  timely,  economical,  efficient, 
accurate,  complete,  and  sufficiently  discriminating 
throughout  the  network  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Management 
of  Information,  IM.3.1]. 

The  network  assesses  data  reliability  validity, 
and  accuracy  on  an  ongoing  basis  and  verifies  that 
data  bias  is  minimized  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Management 
of  Information,  IM.3.2]. 

The  network's  and  components'  data-collec- 
tion system  provides  timely  and  accurate  informa- 
tion for  operational  decision  making  and  planning 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Management  of  Information,  IM.3.4]. 

Transmission  of  data  and  information  is  timely 
and  accurate  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Management  of  Information, 
IM.4]. 

The  network  uses  standardized  formats  and 
methods,  whenever  possible,  to  disseminate  data 
and  information  and  provide  feedback  to  network 
components  and  participating  practitioner  sites 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Management  of  Information,  IM.4.1]. 

The  network  measures  important  processes 
or  outcomes  of  functions  described  in  this  manual 
that  are  related  to  network  and  member  services 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Improving  Network  Performance,  PI. 3.1]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  impor- 
tant processes  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI. 3.2]. 

Periodic  measurement  provides  data  about 
the  needs  and  expectations  of  members  and  others 


Blue  Cross  .mil  Blue  Shield  Association 


78 


II.H.6.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Systematic  Data  Collection  (continued) 


[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Impro  ving  Network  Performance,  PI.3.3.1]. 

Periodic  measurement  provides  data  about 
the  degree  to  which  these  needs  and  expectations 
have  been  met  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI. 3. 3.2]. 

Periodic  measurement  provides  data  about 
licensed  independent  practitioners'  needs,  expec- 
tations, and  views  regarding  current  performance 
and  opportunities  for  improvement  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.3.3.3]. 

NCQA 

The  MCO  uses  quality  indicators  that  are  objective, 
measurable  and  based  on  current  knowledge  and 
clinical  experience  to  monitor  and  evaluate  each 
important  aspect  of  care  and  service  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality  Management 
and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.9.1]. 

Appropriate  methods  and  frequency  of  data 
collection  are  used  for  each  indicator  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality  Management 
and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.9.2]. 

Data  collected  through  monitoring  and  evalua- 
tion activities  are  analyzed  by  appropriate  clinicians 
and  multidisciplinary  teams,  where  indicated 
[NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality 
Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.9.3]. 

URAC 

The  Network  shall  implement  an  automated  man- 
agement information  system  capable  of  supporting 
its  utilization  management,  quality  management, 
and  credentialing  programs  (National  Network 
Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  NM  14.3). 

The  Network  should  expand  its  QM  Program 
and  QM  staff  resources  as  the  Network  matures  and 


increases  in  membership  and  experience  to  include 
additional  activities  such  as: 

•  provide  performance  evaluations; 

•  statistical  studies  and  evaluations; 

•  inpatient  and  outpatient  screens  (clinical 
indicators); 

•  treatment  outcome  studies; 

•  use  of  treatment  protocols,  practice  guidelines, 

or  clinical  pathways  (National  Network  Accredita- 
tion Standards,  April  1996,  QM  6.0  to  QM  6.5). 

All  plans:  The  plan  has  a  procedure  to  develop, 
compile,  evaluate  and  report  statistics  relating  to 
the  cost  of  its  operation,  the  pattern  of  utilization  of 
its  services,  the  quality,  availability  and  accessibility 
of  its  services,  and  such  other  matters  as  may 
be  reasonably  required  by  the  state  [Minnesota 
Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations,  62D.04,  Subd.l(c)]. 

The  quality  assurance  program  has  prompt 
access  to  necessary  medical  record  data  including 
data  by  diagnosis,  procedure,  patient  and  provider 
[Chapter  4685,  Department  of  Health,  Health  Main- 
tenance Organizations,  4685.1010,  Subp.7]. 

The  plan  establishes  and  maintains  proce- 
dures to  develop,  compile,  evaluate  and  report 
statistics  which  include  the  collection  and  mainte- 
nance of  at  least  the  following  data:  operational 
statistics,  gross  utilization  aggregates,  demographic 
characteristics,  disease-specific  and  age-specific 
mortality  rates;  and  enrollment  statistics  [Chapter 
4685,  Department  of  Health,  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations,  4685.1200].  These  requirements  do 
not  apply  to  community  integrated  service  netw  orks. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  provides  a  complete  record 
of  all  diagnostic  and  treatment  encounters,  drugs, 
supplies  and  medical  equipment  items  to  individual 
enrollees  [Request  for  Proposals,  Medical  Assis- 
tance/General Assistance  Medical  Care,  Minneso- 
taCare,  Minnesota  Senior  Health  Options,  Managed 
Care  Health  Plan  Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


79 


II.H.6.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Systematic  Data  Collection  (continued) 


Ohio 

All  plans:  There  is  a  procedure  to  gather  and 
report  statistics  relating  to  the  cost  and  effectiveness 
of  operations,  pattern  of  utilization  and  the  quality, 
availability  and  accessibility  of  services  [Ohio 
Revised  Code,  1742.04(B)(5)]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  submits  on  ODHS  forms, 
annual  utilization  reports  no  later  than  120  days 
after  the  close  of  the  state  fiscal  year  and  semi- 
annual utilization  reports,  no  later  than  90  days 
after  the  end  of  each  six-month  period  [Ohio 
Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-06(C)(5)]. 

HMO  must  have  capability  of  electronic 
transmission  of  minimum  data  set  [SFY  1997  RFP 
Section  VI  (E),  p.  29]. 


The  plan  gathers  baseline  data  on  the  health 
status  of  targeted  enrollees  including  a  periodic 
assessment  of  health  outcomes  at  specified  intervals 
[Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public  Welfare, 
Operating  Agreement,  Section  14,  Quality  Assurance 
and  Utilization  Review,  Attachment  IV,  Y]. 


Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  Data  on  the  utilization  of  health  care 
services  are  collected  and  analyzed  periodically  to 
identify  for  further  in-depth  investigation  potential 
over-utilization,  under-utilization  or  misutilization 
of  health  services  by  enrollees  or  providers 
[28  Pa.  Code,  Section  9.74(e)]. 

Also  see  NCQA  Standards  which  have  been 
informally  adopted  and  are  used  for  licensure  and 
ongoing  regulation. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  establishes  and  maintains  a 
system  to  collect  sufficient  patient  encounter  data  to 
identify  the  physician  who  delivers  services  [Penn- 
sylvania Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating 
Agreement,  Section  4,  Medical  Services,  4.3]. 

The  plan  collects  and  analyzes  data  to  imple- 
ment effective  quality  assurance,  utilization  review 
and  peer  review  programs  [Pennsylvania  Depart- 
ment of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agreement, 
Section  13,  Records  and  Reports,  13.7]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Mine  Shield  Association 


80 


II.H.7.  Quality  Assurance  Program/ 
Peer  Review/ Practitioner  Participation 


Medicare 

Statute:  The  quality  assurance  program  provides  for 
review  by  physicians  and  other  health  professionals 
[Section  1876(c)(6)  of  the  Social  Security  Act]. 

Regulation:  The  plan  provides  for  review  by  physi- 
cians and  other  health  professionals  of  the  process 
followed  in  the  provision  of  services  and  provides 
its  practitioners  with  interpretation  of  data  on 
performance  and  patient  results  [42  CFR  417.418 
and  42  CFR  417.106  (a)(2)  and  (3)]. 

Policy:  Physicians  and  other  health  professionals 
participating  on  the  QA  committee  focus  their 
review  on  the  clinical  process  of  care,  systematically 
selecting  and  reviewing  medical  charts  through  a 
rational  approach  to  identify  and  evaluate  problems 
[Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989,  420 1.3. A]. 

The  review  by  physicians  and  other  health 
professionals  of  the  process  of  care  includes  a 
review  of  QA  data  (e.g.,  enrollee  complaints,  mem- 
ber surveys,  feedback  from  professionals,  providers 
and  staff)  and  the  selection  and  evaluation  of  per- 
formance of  reviewers  in  accordance  with  written 
guidelines  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989, 
4201.3]. 

The  QA  program  provides  feedback  to  health 
professionals  and  HMO  staff  regarding  performance 
and  patient  results  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public 
Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November 
1989,  4201.4.D]. 


Federal  Qualification 

Statute:  The  quality  assurance  program  provides  for 
review  by  physicians  and  other  health  professionals 
[Title  XIII  of  the  Public  Health  Service  Act,  Section 
1301(c)(6)]. 

Regulation:  The  plan  provides  for  review  by  physi- 
cians and  other  health  professionals  in  its  quality 
assurance  program  [42  CFR  417.106(a)(2)]  and 
provides  its  practitioners  with  interpretation  of 
data  on  performance  and  patient  results  [42  CFR 
417.106(a)(3)]. 

Policy:  Physicians  and  other  health  professionals 
participating  on  the  QA  committee  focus  their 
review  on  the  clinical  process  of  care,  systematically 
selecting  and  reviewing  medical  charts  through  a 
rational  approach  to  identify  and  evaluate  problems 
[Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.3.A]. 

The  review  by  physicians  and  other  health 
professionals  of  the  process  of  care  includes  a 
review  of  QA  data  (e.g.,  enrollee  complaints,  mem- 
ber surveys,  feedback  from  professionals,  providers 
and  staff)  and  the  selection  and  evaluation  of  per- 
formance of  reviewers  in  accordance  with  written 
guidelines  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989, 
4201.3.C]. 

The  QA  program  provides  feedback  to  health 
professionals  and  HMO  staff  regarding  performance 
and  patient  results  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public 
Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November 
1989,  4201.4.D]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


Si 


II. H. 7.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Peer  Review/Practitioner  Participation  (continued) 


Medicaid 

Regulation:  The  internal  quality  assurance  system 
provides  for  review  by  appropriate  health  profes- 
sionals of  the  process  followed  in  providing  health 
services  [42  CFR  434.34(b)]  and  the  interpretation 
of  performance  data  to  the  practitioner  [42  CFR 
434.34(d)]. 

Guidelines:  Participating  providers  are  kept 
informed  about  the  written  quality  assurance  plan 
and  are  required  to  cooperate  with  the  program 
[A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for 
Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medic- 
aid Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration, 
July  6,  1993,  Standard  VII,  p.  15-18]. 

The  quality  assurance  program  provides  for 
review  by  physicians  and  other  health  professionals 
of  the  process  followed  in  the  provision  of  health 
services  and  feedback  to  health  professionals  and 
plan  staff  regarding  performance  and  patient  results 
[A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for 
Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medic- 
aid Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration, 
July  6,  1993,  Standard  l.E,  p.  14-15]. 

Copies  of  the  plan's  policies  on  members' 
rights  and  responsibilities  are  provided  to  all  partic- 
ipating providers  [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improve- 
ment System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide 
for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard  X.C.,  p.  24]. 

Appropriate  clinicians  monitor  and  evaluate 
quality,  and  multidisciplinary  teams  are  used, 
where  indicated  [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improve- 
ment System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide 
for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard  II.D.1-2,  p.  17]. 

The  quality  assurance  committee  includes 
active  participation  of  health  plan  providers  who 
are  representative  of  the  composition  of  the  plan's 


providers  [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement 
System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for 
States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard  IV.E,  p.  20]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Program  Expectation:  Minutes  of  regular  staff 
meetings  reflect  problem  resolution  and  an  inter- 
disciplinary, coordinated  approach  to  patient  care. 
[PCER  Clinical  Protocol  III.B.12.] 

NAIC 

A  health  carrier  must  ensure  that  participating 
providers  have  the  opportunity  to  participate  in 
developing,  implementing,  and  evaluating  the 
quality  improvement  system.  [NAIC,  Quality  Assess- 
ment and  Improvement  Model  Act,  Model  Regula- 
tion Service  -  July  1996,  Section  6E.]  A  health 
carrier's  quality  improvement  program  must 
include  the  measurement  of  the  performance  of 
participating  providers  and  the  conduct  of  peer 
review  activities.  [NAIC,  Quality  Assessment  and 
Improvement  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service 
-  July  1996,  Section  6C(2)(e).]  Any  treatment  proto- 
cols and  practice  parameters  used  by  a  health 
carrier  must  be  developed  with  appropriate  clinical 
input.  [NAIC,  Quality  Assessment  and  Improvement 
Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1996, 
Section  6C(2)(f).] 

Qualified  health  care  professionals  must 
administer  a  health  carrier's  utilization  review 
program  and  oversee  review  decisions.  A  clinical 
peer  must  evaluate  the  clinical  appropriateness  of 
adverse  determinations.  Clinical  peers  must  also 
evaluate  appeals  of  adverse  determinations.  [NAIC, 
Draft  Standards,  Utilization  Review  Model  Act, 
6/4/96,  Sections  8B,  10A(2),  and  10B(1).] 


Blue  Cross  and  Mine  Shield  Vssociation 


82 


II.H.7.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Peer  Review/Practitioner  Participation  (continued) 


A  health  carrier  must  notify  participating 
providers  of  their  responsibilities  with  respect  to 
the  carrier's  applicable  administrative  policies  and 
programs,  including  its  utilization  review  and  qual- 
ity assessment  and  improvement  programs,  among 
others.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Managed  Care  Plan 
Network  Adequacy  Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Section  6H.] 

JCAHO 

The  performance  improvement  process  is  collab- 
orative and  involves  all  appropriate  network  and 
component  personnel,  clinical  staff,  and  licensed 
independent  practitioners  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving 
Network  Performance,  PI.  1.1]. 

The  network,  its  components,  and  practitioner 
sites  compare  performance  data  internally  over 
time  and  to  external  sources  of  information  about 
similar  processes  and  outcomes  [1996  Joint  Com- 
mission standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving 

Network  Performance,  PI.4.2]. 

The  network  systematically  communicates 
performance  information  to  each  component  and 
practitioner  site  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI.4.5]. 

NCQA 

The  organization's  providers  participate  actively 
in  the  QI  committee  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accredita- 
tion, Quality  Management  and  Improvement,  1996, 
QI.1.7]. 

Appropriate  clinicians  evaluate  data  on 
clinical  performance  of  practitioners.  Multidiscipli- 
nary  teams  are  used,  where  indicated,  to  analyze 
and  address  systems  issues  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  Quality  Management  and  Improve- 
ment, 1996,  01  9.3]. 


URAC 

The  Network  shall  establish  and  implemenl  a 
provider  relations  program  to  perform  Network 
development  and  maintenance  services  including: 

•  provider  recruiting  and  contracting; 

•  provider  and  provider  office  staff  orientation 
and  training; 

•  administrative  assistance; 

•  maintenance  of  provider  data  bases  and  files 
containing  basic  demographic  data  {National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996, 
NM  11.0  to  11.4). 

The  Network  shall  ensure  the  involvement 
of  affiliated  physicians  and  other  health  care 
practitioners  in  Network  management  through 
appropriate  mechanisms  such  as  participation  on 
the  Network's  medical  management  or  peer  review 
committees  including  utilization  management, 
quality  management,  and  credentialing  (National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996, 
NM  12.2). 

The  Network  shall  establish  and  implement 
a  provider  dispute  and  appeals  process  for  any 
disciplinary  actions,  adverse  actions  taken  by  the 
utilization  management  committee  or  the  quality 
management  committee,  and  contract  disputes, 
that  includes  peer  review  for  all  disputes  involving 
clinical  issues  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  NM  21.5). 

The  QM  committee  shall  include  participating 
Network  physicians  and  other  Network  health  care 
providers  (National  Network  Accreditation  Stan- 
dards, April  1996,  QM  1.3). 

The  Network  shall  provide  a  mechanism 
to  deal  with  participating  providers  who  violate  the 
Network's  quality  of  care  and  quality  of  serv  ice  stan- 
dards. This  includes  peer  review  of  the  provider's 
claim  or  encounter  forms,  and  medical  records 
(National  Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April 
1996,  QM  13.1). 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


83 


II.H.7.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Peer  Review/ Practitioner  Participation  (continued) 


Minnesota 

All  plans:  Provider  agreements  include  provisions 
requiring  the  provider  to  cooperate  with  and  partici- 
pate in  the  plan's  quality  assurance  program,  dis- 
pute resolution  procedure,  and  utilization  review- 
program  [Minnesota  Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations,  62D.123,  Subd.2]. 

A  physician  or  physicians  designated  by  the 
governing  body  advises,  oversees  and  actively  par- 
ticipates in  the  implementation  of  quality  assurance 
activities  [Chapter  4685,  Department  of  Health, 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations,  4685.1110, 
Subp.4]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  conveys  the  results  of  its  perfor- 
mance evaluation  to  individual  clinics  and  practi- 
tioners [Request  for  Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/ 
General  Assistance  Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare, 
Minnesota  Senior  Health  Options,  Managed  Care 
Health  Plan  Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  Provider  contracts  include  their  responsi- 
bilities with  regard  to  participation  in  the  quality 
assurance/utilization  review  programs,  credential- 
ing  process  and  grievance  resolution  process  of 
the  plan  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Participation  by  physicians  and  other  health 
professionals  in  quality  assurance  activities  is  ade- 
quate to  monitor  clinical  performance  and  resolve 
problems.  An  appropriate  range  of  specialists  are 
involved  to  assure  that  a  broad  spectrum  of  clinical 
performance  is  monitored  and  corrective  action  is 
taken  when  indicated  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

There  is  a  program  of  provider  education 
informing  providers  of  the  quality  assurance 
program  and  how  services  will  be  monitored 
[Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  MCPs  must  conduct  quality  of  care 
sttidies  in  accordance  with  specifications,  and  have 
results  monitored  and  analyzed  by  appropriate 


clinicians,  MCP  must  have  written  description  of  its 
internal  utilization  management  (UM)  program  and 
appropriate  administrative  procedure  to  ensure  the 
ongoing  operation  and  documentation  of  quality 
improvement  activities.  [Ohio  Administrative  Code, 
Chapter  5101:3-26-071  (C)  (G)  and  (H)]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  The  results  of  quality  assurance 
activities  are  made  known  to  participating  providers 
in  a  manner  designed  to  facilitate  improvement  in 
the  quality  of  service  delivered  [28  Pa.  Code,  Section 
9.74(c)]. 

The  structure  and  operation  of  the  plan's  qual- 
ity assurance  program  involves  physicians  who  are 
contracting  with  or  employed  by  the  plan  [Appendix 
I,  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health,  HMO  Quality 
Assurance  Standards,  A. 1.5]. 

Medicaid:  Physicians  and  other  health  care  practi- 
tioners participate  in  quality  assurance,  utilization 
review  and  peer  review  programs  [Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agree- 
ment, Section  13,  Records  and  Reports,  13.7]. 

There  are  procedures  for  informing  providers 
of  identified  deficiencies  [Pennsylvania  Department 
of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section 
14,  Quality  Assurance  and  Utilization  Review, 
Attachment  IV]. 

The  plan  establishes  and  maintains  a  Hospital 
Advisory  Committee  representative  of  participating 
hospital  providers  [Pennsylvania  Department  of 
Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section  14, 
Quality  Assurance  and  Utilization  Review,  14.7]. 

The  plan  distributes  standards,  protocols, 
and  guidelines  to  all  providers  [Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agree- 
ment, Section  14,  Quality  Assurance  and  Utilization 
Review,  Attachment  IV,  O]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


SI 


II.H.8.  Quality  Assurance  Program/ 
Continuous  Improvement  Plan/ Process 


Medicare 

Regulation:  There  are  written  procedures  for  tak- 
ing appropriate  remedial  action  whenever  it  has 
been  determined  that  there  are  inappropriate  or 
substandard  services  provided  or  services  that 
should  have  been  furnished  have  not  been  provided 
[42  CFR  417.418  and  42  CFR  417.106(a)(4)]. 

The  plan  has  an  ongoing  qualify  assurance 
program  for  its  health  services  provided  or  services 
which  should  have  been  furnished  have  not  been 
provided  [42  CFR  417.418(b)]. 

Policy:  The  quality  assurance  process  includes 
methods  for  identifying  areas  for  review;  determin- 
ing if  problems  exist  in  those  areas  and,  where 
appropriate,  intensifying  the  review  of  health  pro- 
fessionals, providers  or  other  areas  to  determine 
whether  or  not  patterns  exist;  providing  feedback 
to  appropriate  health  professionals;  recommending 
and  implementing  corrective  actions;  and  monitor- 
ing and  evaluating  the  implementation  of  corrective 
actions  to  assure  that  appropriate  changes  have 
been  made  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989, 
4201.F]. 

The  plan  uses  systematic  data  collection  of 
performance  and  patient  results,  provides  interpre- 
tation of  these  data  to  its  practitioners,  and  institutes 
needed  changes  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public 
Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November 
1989,  4201]. 


Federal  Qualification 

Regulation:  The  plan  has  an  ongoing  quality 
assurance  program  for  its  health  services  provided 
or  services  which  should  have  been  furnished  have 
not  been  provided  [42  CFR  417.106(a)]. 

There  are  written  procedures  for  taking 
appropriate  remedial  action  whenever  it  has  been 
determined  that  there  are  inappropriate  or  substan- 
dard services  provided  or  services  which  should 
have  been  furnished  have  not  been  provided 
[42  CFR  417.106(a)(4)]. 

Policy:  The  quality  assurance  process  includes 
methods  for  identifying  areas  for  review;  determin- 
ing if  problems  exist  in  those  areas  and,  where 
appropriate,  intensifying  the  review  of  health 
professionals,  providers  or  other  areas  to  determine 
whether  or  not  patterns  exist;  providing  feedback 
to  appropriate  health  professionals;  recommending 
and  implementing  corrective  actions;  and  monitor- 
ing and  evaluating  the  implementation  of  corrective 
actions  to  assure  that  appropriate  changes  have 
been  made  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989, 
4201.F]. 

The  plan  uses  systematic  data  collection  of 
performance  and  patient  results,  provides  interpre- 
tation of  these  data  to  its  practitioners,  and  institutes 
needed  changes  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public 
Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November 
1989,  4201]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


8) 


II.H.8.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Continuous  Improvement  Plan/Process  (continued) 


Medicaid 

Regulation:  The  internal  quality  assurance  system 
provides  for  making  needed  changes  [42  CFR 
434.34(e)]. 

Guidelines:  The  quality  assurance  program 
includes  written  procedures  for  taking  appropriate 
remedial  action  whenever  inappropriate  or  substan- 
dard services  are  furnished,  or  whenever  appropri- 
ate services  are  not  furnished.  Procedures  address: 
types  of  problems  and  action  to  be  taken;  who 
makes  final  determinations;  provision  for  feedback; 
accountability  for  actions,  assessments  and 
appropriate  notification;  and  provider  termination, 
if  necessary  [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement 
System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for 
States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard  II.E,  pp.  17-18]. 

Methods  are  in  place  for  continuously  updat- 
ing standards/guidelines  [A  Health  Care  Quality 
Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care: 
A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care 
Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard 
II.C.4  p.  16]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Program  Expectation:  QM  findings  are  used  to 
modify  policies/procedures  in  order  to  effect  quality 
improvement.  [PCER  Clinical  Protocol  IV.C.6.] 

NAIC 

As  part  of  its  quality  assessment  plan,  a  health 
carrier  must  collect,  analyze,  and  report  relevant 
data,  and  must  report  to  the  appropriate  licensing 
authority  any  persistent  pattern  of  problematic  care 
furnished  by  a  provider  that  is  sufficient  to  cause 
the  health  carrier  to  terminate  or  suspend  contrac- 
tual arrangements  with  the  provider.  [NAIC,  Quality 
Assessment  and  Improvement  Model  Act,  Model 
Regulation  Service  -  July  1996,  Section  5C] 

A  health  carrier's  quality  improvement 
program  must  be  structured  to  "foster  an  environ- 
ment of  continuous  quality  improvement."  The 


carrier  must  use  the  findings  generated  by  the  qual- 
ity improvement  system  to  work  with  participating 
providers  and  other  staff  on  a  continuing  basis 
to  improve  the  health  care  delivered  to  covered 
persons.  The  quality  improvement  plan  requires 
the  carrier  to  compare  program  findings  with  past 
performance,  as  appropriate,  and  with  internal 
goals  and  external  standards.  A  health  carrier 
must  also,  as  part  of  its  quality  improvement  plan, 
measure  the  performance  of  participating  providers 
and  communicate  with  them  about  their  perfor- 
mance. [NAIC,  Quality  Assessment  and  Improve- 
ment Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July 
1996,  Section  6.] 

A  health  carrier  must  make  available  annually 
to  providers  and  covered  persons  findings  from 
its  quality  assessment  and  quality  improvement 
programs  and  information  about  its  progress  in 
meeting  internal  goals  and  external  standards, 
where  available.  [NAIC,  Quality  Assessment  and 
Improvement  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service 
-  July  1996,  Sections  8A(3).] 

JCAHO 

The  network  continuously  measures  important 
processes  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI. 3.2]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  access 
to  and  appropriateness  of  care  and  services  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works, Improving  Network  Performance,  PI. 3.2.1]. 

Continuing  measurement  of  processes  yields 
outcome  data  related  to  prevention,  physiological 
function,  functional  status,  and  physical  and 
psychological  comfort  of  members  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI. 3.2.2]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  member 
entry,  assessment,  and  treatment  processes  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Improving  Network  Performance,  PI. 3.2. 3]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


86 


I I.H.8.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Conlinuous  Improvement  Plan/Process  (continued) 


The  network  continuously  measures  processes 
related  to  the  movement  of  members  among  net- 
work components  and  practitioner  sites  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI. 3.2.4]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  processes 
associated  with  important  adverse  clinical  events 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Improving  Network  Performance,  PI. 3.2.5]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  preven- 
tive services  and  health-promotion  programs  to 
evaluate  their  effectiveness  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving 
Network  Performance,  PI. 3.2. 6]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  the  use 
of  clinical  resources  [1996  Joint  Commission  stan- 
dards for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI. 3.2. 7]. 

The  network,  its  components,  and  practitioner 
sites  compare  performance  data  internally  over 
time  and  to  external  sources  of  information  about 
similar  processes  and  outcomes  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.4.2]. 

The  network  systematically  improves  its 
performance  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI. 5]. 

NCQA 

There  is  evidence  that  results  of  evaluations  are 
used  to  improve  clinical  care  and  service  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality  Management 
and  Improvement,  1996,  QI  10.1]. 

There  is  a  systematic  method  of  tracking 
areas  identified  for  improvement  to  assure  that 
appropriate  action  is  taken  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  Quality  Management  and  Improve- 
ment, 1996,  QI  10.2]. 


URAC 

The  Network  shall  update  its  QM  Plan  at  least 
annually  to  reflect: 

•  changes  in  staffing  and  stall  responsibilities; 

•  changes  in  or  additional  QM  methodologies 
to  be  employed; 

•  the  adoption  of  new  QM  standards  or  changes 
in  existing  QM  standards; 

•  other  significant  changes  in  the  Network's  QM 
Program  {National  Network  Accreditation  Stan- 
dards, April  1996,  QM  9.0  to  QM  9.4). 

The  Network  shall  implement  a  mechanism 
to  ensure  that  all  quality  of  care  and  quality  of 
service  complaints  are  forwarded  to  the  Network's 
QM  Program  for  review,  investigation,  and  when 
necessary,  corrective  action  (National  Network 
Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  QM  10.0). 

The  Network  shall  implement  a  written 
QM  corrective  action  plan  in  response  to  confirmed 
quality  of  care  and  quality  of  service  problems 
to  include: 

•  a  statement  of  the  quality  problem; 

•  corrective  action  to  be  taken; 

Network  staff  responsible  for  monitoring 
and  documenting  the  implementation  of  corrective 
actions; 

•  the  dates  of  follow  up  reviews  and  evaluations, 
if  required; 

•  review  and  approval  of  the  corrective  action 
plan  by  the  Network's  Medical  Director  or  a 
designated  Network  physician  (National  Network 
Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  QM  11.0  to 
QM  11.5). 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


87 


II. H. 8.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Continuous  Improvement  Plan/Process  (continued) 


Minnesota 

All  plans:  The  quality  assurance  entity  monitors 
the  effectiveness  of  corrective  actions  until  problem 
resolution  occurs.  Results  of  implemented  correc- 
tive action  are  documented  and  communicated  to 
the  governing  body  and  involved  providers  [Chapter 
4685,  Department  of  Health,  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations,  4685.1120,  Subp.4]. 

Medicaid:  Based  on  ongoing  reviews  under  the 
quality  assurance  system,  the  plan  develops  an 
appropriate  corrective  action  plan  [Minnesota 
Department  of  Human  Services  Rules,  9500.1460 
Subp.17]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  There  is  a  clearly  defined  method  of 
response  to  problems,  which  includes  the  develop- 
ment of  appropriate  recommendations  for  correc- 
tive action,  as  appropriate;  the  assignment  of 
responsibility  at  the  appropriate  level  for  the  imple- 
mentation of  recommendations;  institution  of  action 
which  is  appropriate  to  the  problem;  and  the  insti- 
tution of  provider  education  and  feedback  when 
deficiencies  relative  to  the  delivery  of  health  care 
services  are  found  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  There  are  written  procedures  for 
implementing  appropriate  remedial  action  for 
problem  identification;  specification  of  the  person 
or  body  responsible  for  correcting  the  problem; 
specific  actions  to  be  taken;  corrective  action  plan 
implementation  schedule;  corrective  action  plan 
evaluation;  and  reporting  of  significant  noncompli- 
ance [Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101: 
3-26-071(B),  (D)  and  (H)]. 


Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  As  part  of  the  quality  assurance  program, 
there  are  regularly  scheduled  meetings  demonstrat- 
ing that  quality  assurance  activities  are  performed 
on  a  continuous  basis.  Records  of  minutes  reflecting 
activities  and  corrective  actions  are  kept  [Appendix 
I,  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health,  HMO  Quality 
Assurance  Standards,  A.  1.6]. 

The  quality  assurance  program  identifies  areas 
of  deficiency  and  produces  recommendations  for 
corrective  action,  and  the  Board  of  Directors  assures 
that  appropriate  corrective  action  is  taken  [Appen- 
dix I,  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health,  HMO 
Quality  Assurance  Standards,  A.  1.8]. 

Evidence  is  provided  that  quality  assurance 
activities  have  contributed  to  changes  in  the  plan's 
delivery  system  and  appropriate  follow-up  to  all 
problems  identified  has  occurred  [Appendix  I, 
Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health,  HMO  Quality 
Assurance  Standards,  B.2.2]. 

Medicaid:  There  are  procedures  for  informing 
providers  of  identified  deficiencies,  monitoring 
corrective  action,  instituting  progressive  sanctions, 
an  appeal  process,  and  reassessment  to  determine 
if  corrective  action  has  its  intended  results  [Pennsyl- 
vania Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating 
Agreement,  Section  14,  Quality  Assurance  and 
Utilization  Review,  Attachment  IV,  E]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Him-  Shield  Association 


88 


II.H.9.  Quality  Assurance  Program/ 
Effectiveness  Assessment 


Medicare 

Policy:  There  are  written  guidelines  for  assessing 
the  effectiveness  of  remedial  action  procedures  as 
well  as  the  effectiveness  of  the  corrective  actions 
themselves.  This  should  be  part  of  a  plan's  annual 
review.  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989, 
4201.5.C]. 

The  QA  program  has  written  guidelines 
delineating  a  systematic  process  for  monitoring  and 
evaluating  the  implementation  of  corrective  actions 
to  assure  that  appropriate  changes  have  been  made 
[Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989,  4201. IF]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Policy:  There  are  written  guidelines  for  assessing 
the  effectiveness  of  remedial  action  procedures 
as  well  as  the  effectiveness  of  the  corrective  actions 
themselves.  This  should  be  part  of  a  plan's  annual 
review  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989, 
4201.5.C]. 

The  QA  program  has  written  guidelines 
delineating  a  systematic  process  for  monitoring  and 
evaluating  the  implementation  of  corrective  actions 
to  assure  that  appropriate  changes  have  been  made 
[Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.1.F]. 


Medicaid 

Guidelines:  As  actions  are  taken  to  improve  care, 
there  is  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  correction 
actions  to  assure  that  appropriate  changes  have 
been  made  [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement 
System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for 
States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard  II  (F),  p.  18]. 

\nnuallv,  a  report  is  prepared  indicating  the 
activities  completed,  demonstrated  improvements 
in  quality,  areas  of  deficiency  and  recommendations 
for  corrective  action  and  an  evaluation  of  the  overall 
effectiveness  of  the  quality  assurance  program 
[A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for 
Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medic- 
aid Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration, 
July  6,  1993,  Standard  II.G,  p.  18]. 

There  is  evidence  that  QA  activities  have 
contributed  to  significant  improvement  in  the 
care  delivered  to  members  [A  Health  Care  Quality 
Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care: 
A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care 
Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard 
II.G.3,  p.  18]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

BPHC  assesses  the  effectiveness  of  a  QA  program 
as  part  of  the  PCER.  [Program  Information  Notice 
95-26] 

NAIC 

A  health  carrier  is  required  to  evaluate  periodically, 
but  not  less  than  annually,  the  effectiveness  of  any 
strategies  related  to  program  findings  that  it  has 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


II.H.9.  Quality  Assurance  Program/ Effectiveness  Assessment  (continued) 


implemented  as  part  of  its  quality  improvement 
plan.  It  must  also  compare  the  findings  generated 
from  its  quality  improvement  program  with  the  car- 
rier's past  performance,  as  appropriate,  and  with 
internal  goals  and  external  standards,  where  avail- 
able. [NAIC,  Quality  Assessment  and  Improvement 
Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1996, 
Sections  6C(2)(i)  and  6C(2)(d).] 

A  health  carrier  that  conducts  utilization 
review  activities  must  routinely  assess  the  effective- 
ness and  efficiency  of  its  utilization  review  program. 
[NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Utilization  Review  Model 
Act,  6/4/96,  Section  8D.] 

JCAHO 

The  leaders  evaluate  their  effectiveness  in  improv- 
ing performance  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Leadership,  LD.5.4]. 

The  network  has  a  planned,  systematic, 
networkwide  approach  to  designing  processes 
and  measuring,  assessing,  and  improving  its  perfor- 
mance [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health 
Care  Networks,  Improving  Network  Performance, 
PI.1]. 

The  network  systematically  improves  its 
performance  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI. 5]. 

When  improvement  activities  lead  to  a  deter- 
mination that  there  are  issues  related  to  an  individ- 
ual's performance,  appropriate  action  is  taken 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.5.1]. 

NCQA 

The  MCO  assures  follow-up  on  identified  issues 
to  ensure  that  actions  for  improvement  have  been 
effective  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality 
Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI  10.3]. 


The  MCO  evaluates  the  overall  effectiveness 
of  its  QI  program  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accredita- 
tion, Quality  Management  and  Improvement,  1996, 
QI  11.0]. 

There  is  an  annual  written  report  on  quality, 
including  a  report  of  completed  activities,  trending 
of  clinical  and  service  indicators  and  other  perfor- 
mance data,  and  demonstrated  improvements  in 
quality  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality 
Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI  11.1]. 

There  is  evidence  that  QI  activities  have 
contributed  to  improvement  in  the  care  and  services 
provided  to  members  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accredi- 
tation, Quality  Management  and  Improvement, 
1996,  QI  11.2]. 

URAC 

The  Network  QM  committee  evaluates  and  reports 
on  the  overall  effectiveness  of  the  QM  program 
(National  Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April 
1996,  QM  1.6). 

The  Network  QM  Plan  contains  information 
about  how  the  Network  takes  corrective  action 
to  resolve  confirmed  quality  of  care  and  quality 
of  service  problems  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  QM  8.6). 

The  Network  shall  provide  a  mechanism 
to  deal  with  participating  providers  who  violate 
the  Network's  quality  of  care  and  service  standards. 
Such  a  mechanism  includes: 

•  peer  review  of  a  provider's  claim  or  encounter 
forms,  and  medical  records; 

•  review  of  a  provider's  practices,  services,  and 
professional  competency  by  the  QM  committee; 

•  use  of  sanctions  including  fines,  restriction 

of  participation  privileges,  suspension  of  partici- 
pation status,  and  termination  of  participation 
status  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  QM  13.0  to  QM  13.3). 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


90 


II.H.9.  Quality  Assurance  Program/Effectiveness  Assessment  (continued) 


Minnesota 

All  plans:  An  evaluation  of  the  overall  quality 
assurance  program  is  conducted  at  least  annually, 
with  reports  sent  to  the  governing  body  and  amend- 
ments made  appropriately  [Chapter  4685,  Depart- 
ment of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1110,  Subp.8]. 

The  quality  assurance  entity  monitors  the 
effectiveness  of  corrective  actions  until  problem 
resolution  occurs  [Chapter  4685,  Department  of 
Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1120,  Subp.4]. 

Medicaid:  Based  on  ongoing  reviews  under 
the  quality  assurance  system,  the  plan  develops 
an  appropriate  corrective  action  plan  and  monitors 
the  effectiveness  of  the  corrective  action  or  actions 
taken  [Minnesota  Department  of  Human  Services 
Rules,  9500.1460  Subp.17]. 


actions  and  aggregate  data  on  utilization  and  quality 
of  services  rendered  [Appendix  I,  Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Health,  HMO  Quality  Assurance 
Standards,  A.  1.7]. 

Medicaid:  The  quality  assurance  system  includes 
a  comprehensive,  detailed,  semi-annual  report  on 
all  quality  assurance  activities,  including  studies 
undertaken,  results,  subsequent  actions  and  aggre- 
gate data  on  utilization  and  clinical  quality  of 
medical  care  rendered  [Pennsylvania  Department 
of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section 
14,  Quality  .Assurance  and  Utilization  Review, 
Attachment  IV,  V]. 


Ohio 

All  plans:  There  is  a  method  for  following  up  on 
recommendations  to  assure  that  corrective  action 
has  been  implemented;  results  of  such  action 
are  evaluated;  revisions  to  recommendations  are 
made;  and  ongoing  monitoring  occurs  if  neces- 
sary[Procedural,  ODH]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  conducts  an  annual  review 
of  the  continuity  and  effectiveness  of  the  quality 
improvement  program,  including  a  written  report 
on  studies  and  other  activities  outlining  perfor- 
mance data,  demonstrated  quality  improvements 
in  areas  of  deficiency  and  recommendations  for 
corrective  action  [Ohio  Administrative  Code, 
Chapter  5101:3-26-071  (H)  (10)]. 


Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  At  least  once  a  year,  the  Board  of  Direc- 
tors reviews  a  report  on  quality  assurance  activities, 
including  studies  undertaken,  results,  subsequent 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


ILL  External  Review 


Medicare 

Statute:  Each  risk-based  sharing  contract  maintains 
an  agreement  with  a  utilization  and  quality  control 
peer  review  organization  or  with  an  entity  selected 
by  the  Secretary  [Section  1876(i)(7)(A)  of  the  Social 
Security  Act]. 

The  agreement  (between  the  Medicare  risk- 
sharing  HMO/CMP  and  the  peer  review  organiza- 
tion) provides  for  the  review  of  services  (including 
both  inpatient  and  outpatient  services)  for  the  pur- 
poses of  determining  whether  the  quality  of  services 
meets  professionally  recognized  standards  of  health 
care,  including  whether  appropriate  health  care  ser- 
vices have  been  provided  in  inappropriate  settings 
and  whether  individuals  enrolled  in  the  plan  have 
adequate  access  to  health  care  services  provided  by 
or  through  such  plan  [Section  1154(a)(4)(B)  of  the 
Social  Security  Act]. 

The  review  organization  conducts  an  appro- 
priate review  of  all  written  complaints  about  the 
quality  of  services  not  meeting  professionally  recog- 
nized standards  of  health  care,  if  the  complaint  is 
filed  with  the  review  organization  by  an  individual 
entitled  to  benefits  for  such  services  [Section 
1154(a)(14)  of  the  Social  Security  Act]. 

Regulation:  The  Plan  agrees  to  comply  with  the 
requirements  for  PRO  review  of  services  provided 
to  Medicare  enrollees  [42  CFR  417.478(a)]. 

Policy:  Medicare  risk-based  contracting  HMOs/ 
CMPs  maintain  a  written  agreement  with  the  PRO 
which  provides  for  the  review  of  services  (including 
both  inpatient  and  outpatient  services)  provided  to 
Medicare  enrollees  to:  (1)  determine  whether  such 


services  meet  professionally  recognized  standards 
of  health  care,  including  whether  appropriate  ser- 
vices have  not  been  provided  or  have  been  provided 
in  inappropriate  settings;  (2)  determine  whether 
individuals  enrolled  with  an  eligible  organization 
have  adequate  access  to  health  care  services;  and 
(3)  maintain  a  beneficiary  outreach  program 
designed  to  apprise  individuals  of  the  role  of  the 
peer  review  system,  of  the  rights  of  the  individual 
under  such  a  system,  and  of  the  method  and  pur- 
poses for  contacting  the  organization.  Such  review 
also  includes  a  review  of  all  written  complaints  filed 
by  Medicare  beneficiaries  or  their  representatives 
about  the  quality  of  services  [HMO/Competitive 
Medical  Plan  Manual,  Contract  Requirements, 
Part  3,  Chapter  1,  September  1992,  3001. 1.A]. 

Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  Program 
(HCQIP)  Scope  of  Work  (SOW),  Round  5.  The  goal 
of  the  PRO  program  is  to  improve  the  processes 
and  outcomes  of  care  for  Medicare  beneficiaries. 
This  SOW  sets  out  to  achieve  the  goal  through  the 
performance  of  cooperative  projects  to  assure 
access,  provide  protections,  and  provide  information 
to  beneficiaries  for  making  health  care  decisions. 
The  collaborative  quality  improvement  projects  may 
involve  individual  HMOs,  or  groups  of  HMOs  in  the 
state  or  specific  market  areas.  Risk-based  contrac- 
tors are  required  to  participate  in  these  collaborative 
projects,  under  written  agreement  with  the  PRO 
[HCQIP  5th  SOW,  C.l  and  C.6] 

Federal  Qualification 

No  standard  specified. 


ISlur  Ciuss  .iiii!  Blue  Shield  Association 


92 


ILL  External  Review  (continued) 


Medicaid 

Statute:  The  State  contracts  with  a  utilization  and 
quality  control  peer  review  organization  or  a  private 
accreditation  body  to  conduct  an  annual,  indepen- 
dent, external  review  of  the  quality  of  services  fur- 
nished under  each  contract  [Section  1902(a)(50)(C) 
of  the  Social  Security  Act]. 

Guidelines:  External  quality  review  includes  three 
types  of  activities:  (1)  focused  studies  of  patterns 
of  care;  (2)  individual  case  review  in  specific 
situations;  and  (3)  follow-up  activities  on  previous 
pattern  of  care  study  findings  and  individual  case 
review  findings  [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improve- 
ment System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide 
for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Chapter  4,  pp.  47-67]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Guidance:  BPHC  funded  programs  are  encouraged 
to  obtain  external  accreditation  from  appropriate 
organizations  in  addition  to  or  in  concert  with  the 
PCER.  [Program  Information  Notice  95-26] 

NAIC 

The  Health  Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act 
contains  no  requirement  that  a  health  maintenance 
organization  obtain  an  external  assessment  of  the 
quality  of  care  that  it  provides. 

The  Quality  Assessment  and  Improvement 
Model  Act  contains  no  requirement  that  a  health 
carrier  obtain  an  independent,  external  assessment 
of  the  quality  of  care  that  it  provides.  However,  this 
model,  as  well  as  the  Utilization  Review  Model  Act, 
the  Health  Care  Professional  Credentialing  Verifica- 
tion Model  Act,  the  Managed  Care  Plan  Network 
Adequacy  Model  Act,  and  the  Health  Carrier  Griev- 
ance Procedure  Model  Act,  contains  a  drafting  note 
suggesting  that  states  consider  accepting  accredita- 
tion by  a  nationally  recognized  private  accrediting 
entity  as  evidence  that  a  health  carrier  meets  some 


or  all  of  the  act's  requirements.  [NAIC,  Quality 
Assessment  and  Improvement  Model  Act,  Model 
Regulation  Service  -  July  1996,  Section  4,  Drafting 
Note.  See  also  the  drafting  note  in  Section  4  of  each 
of  the  other  four  models  identified  above.] 

JCAHO 

The  JCAHO  survey  may  itself  be  an  external 
review  when  conducted  at  the  request  of  state 
agencies  or  purchasers. 

NCQA 

No  standard  specified. 
URAC 

The  URAC  accreditation  process  may  constitute 
the  external  review.  Plans  that  are  accredited  by 
URAC  could  be  deemed  as  having  met  the  desired 
state  or  federal  standards,  or  URAC  accreditation 
could  be  mandated.  Twelve  states  and  the  District 
of  Columbia  currently  deem  or  mandate  URAC 
accreditation  for  utilization  management  activities. 

Minnesota 

Medicaid:  There  is  an  annual  independent  review 
of  Medicaid  services  provided  by  each  contract 
with  a  utilization  and  quality  assurance  review 
organization  or  a  private  accreditation  body  to 
evaluate  and  improve  the  quality  and  appropriate- 
ness of  care  provided  to  enrollees  [Request  for 
Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/General  Assistance 
Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior 
Health  Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan 
Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 

Ohio 

Medicaid:  A  comprehensive  quality  assurance 
survey  is  conducted  annually  by  an  External  Quality 
Review  Organization  selected  by  the  Ohio  Depart- 
ment of  Human  Services  [OAC  5101:  3-26-07  (A)]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


93 


ILL  External  Review  (continued) 


The  survey  includes  evaluation  of  Administrative 
Processes  and  Quality  of  Care  Studies  [SFY  1997 
EQRO  RFP]. 

Pennsylvania 

AH  plans:  Within  one  year  of  receipt  of  a  certificate 
of  authority  and  every  three  years  thereafter,  a  plan 
must  arrange  to  have  an  external  quality  assurance 
assessment  performed  to  study  the  quality  of  care 
being  provided  to  enrollees  based  on  a  review  of  a 
statistically  significant  sample  of  medical  records. 
Plans  have  the  flexibility  to  choose  their  Quality 
Review  Organization  from  a  series  of  prequalified 
organizations  [28  Pa.  Code,  Section  9.95].  An  exter- 
nal quality  review  includes: 

Review  of  documents  including  quality  assurance 
plan;  complaint  and  grievance  file;  minutes  of  Board 
of  Directors'  meetings;  minutes  from  meetings  of 
committees  and  other  entities  responsible  for  qual- 
ity assurance;  utilization  review/control  reports; 
selected  ambulatory  medical  records;  reports  of 
quality  assurance  studies  and  activities; 

Meetings  with  CEO,  Medical  Director,  Chairperson 
or  physician  supervisor  of  the  committee  with 
quality  assurance  responsibilities,  members  of  the 
quality  assurance  committee  or  responsible  entity, 
patient  care  coordinator,  at  least  one  member  of 
governing  body,  consumer  liaison  responsible  for 
member  service  or  grievance  procedures,  and  other 
providers,  board  members  as  requested; 

/  alidation  of  preselected  focused  clinical  care  studies 
conducted  by  the  plan  during  the  past  24  months. 
This  review  includes  review  of  the  rationale  for 
the  plan  selecting  the  topic;  the  validity  of  the  study 
question;  the  appropriateness  of  guidelines  or 
standards  against  which  care  was  evaluated;  sample 
selection;  data  sources  used;  the  medical  record 
abstraction  instrument  used  to  conduct  the  study; 
the  data  analysis;  the  written  summary  results; 
the  plan  for  quality  improvement;  and  the  resurvey 
plan;  and 


Medical  record  review  to  verify  the  plan's  monitor- 
ing of  sentinel  events  and  adverse  outcomes  as  well 
as  a  general  medical  record  review  which  randomly 
selects  at  least  50  records  of  primary  care  physi- 
cians [Invitation  to  Qualify  as  an  Approved  HMO 
Quality  Review  Organization,  Pennsylvania  Depart- 
ment of  Health,  Appendix  II,  External  Assessment 
Process,  Responsibilities  of  Review  Organizations]. 

Following  a  summation  meeting,  the  Quality 
Review  Organization  prepares  a  report  for  review 
by  the  plan,  including  recommendations  for  follow- 
up.  The  plan  has  5  days  to  comment  and  make 
factual  error  corrections.  The  Department  of  Health 
issues  a  final  report  indicating  areas  of  deficiencies 
and  required  follow-up  actions.  The  plan  submits 
annual  progress  reports  covering  activities,  prob- 
lems and  recommendations  to  the  state  for  monitor- 
ing purposes  [Invitation  to  Qualify  as  an  Approved 
HMO  Quality  Review  Organization,  Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Health,  Appendix  II,  External 
Assessment  Process,  Responsibilities  of  Review 
Organizations]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  agrees  to  an  annual  external, 
independent  assessment  of  its  performance  which 
includes,  but  is  not  necessarily  limited  to,  the  feder- 
ally required  reviews  of  (1)  access  to  care,  quality 
of  care,  cost  effectiveness  and  the  effect  of  case 
management;  and  (2)  the  plan's  quality  assurance 
procedures,  implementation  of  the  procedures 
and  the  quality  of  care  provided  [Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agree- 
ment, Section  14,  Quality  Assurance  and  Utilization 
Review,  14.11]. 

The  plan  submits  a  corrective  action  plan 
to  resolve  any  performance  or  quality  of  care  defi- 
ciencies identified  by  the  independent  assessors 
as  determined  necessary  by  the  state  [Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agree- 
ment, Section  14,  Quality  Assurance  and  Utilization 
Review,  14.11]. 


nine  Cross  <ind  Blur  Shield  Association 


9  1 


II. J.  1.  Credentialing/ Recredentialing/ 
Frequency 


Medicare 

No  standard  specified. 

Federal  Qualification 

No  standard  specified. 

Medicaid 

Guidelines:  Recredentialing  occurs  at  least  every 
two  years  [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement 
System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for 
States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Chapter  4,  pp.  47-67]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Guidance:  BPHC  programs  are  periodically  cre- 
dentialed  to  meet  minimum  requirements  of  the 
Federal  Tort  Claims  Act.  That  is,  "implementation  of 
a  system  whereby  professional  credentials  reference 
claims  history,  fitness,  professional  organization 
findings,  and  licensure  status  of  its  health  profes- 
sionals are  reviewed  and  verified".  [PCER  Clinical 
Protocol  IV.C.5.] 

NAIC 

The  HMO  Model  Act  requires  a  health  maintenance 
organization  to  describe  in  its  written  quality  assur- 
ance plan  its  system  for  credentialing  providers  and 
performing  peer  review  activities.  [NAIC,  Health 
Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act,  Model 
Regulation  Service  -  July  1995,  Section  7.] 

A  health  carrier  must  verify  the  credentials 
of  a  health  care  professional  before  entering  into  a 
contract  with  that  health  care  professional.  A  health 


carrier  shall  perform  recredentialing  at  least  every 
three  (3)  years.  [NAIC,  Health  Care  Professional 
Credentialing  Verification  Model  Act,  Model 
Regulation  Service  -  July  1996,  Sections  5  and  6.] 

JCAHO 

Appointments  and  reappointments  are  made  for 
periods  no  longer  than  two  years  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Management  of  Human  Resources,  HR.3.5]. 

IMCQA 

Initial  credentialing  and  verification  is  ongoing 
and  up-to-date  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Credentialing,  1996,  CR  5.0].  Re-credentialing 
is  implemented  at  least  every  two  years  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Credentialing,  1996, 
CR  10.1]. 

URAC 

The  Network  shall  credential,  or  require  to  be 
credentialed  through  delegated  or  contracted 
credentialing,  all  licensed  or  certified  health  care 
practitioners  who  are  Network  providers  (National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996, 
PC  4.0). 

Recredentialing  shall  occur  at  least  every  two 
years  (National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  PC  11.0). 

The  Network  should  request  current  copies  of 
applicable  credentials  that  have  expired  or  changed 
between  credentialing  cycles  (National  Network 
Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  PC  15.0). 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


I  I.J.I.  Credential  in  g/ Recredentialing/  Frequency  (continued) 


Minnesota 

No  standard  specified. 

Ohio 

All  Plans  -  No  standard 

Medicaid:  There  is  written  evidence  that  the 
recredentialing  procedure  is  implemented,  at  a 
minimum,  every  2  years  [Ohio  Administrative 
Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-071(F)(5)]. 

Pennsylvania 

No  standard  specified. 

See  NCQA  Standards  for  Credentialing/ 
Recredentialing.  Recredentialing  is  implemented 
at  least  every  2  years. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


III) 


I I.J.2.  Credentialing/ Recredentialing/ 
Verification 


Medicare 

Regulation:  Under  general  authority,  credentialing 
can  be  addressed  under  42  CFR  417.412(a)  which 
requires  that  a  plan  has  sufficient  administrative 
capability  to  carry  out  the  requirements  of  the 
contract. 

Policy:  Providers  of  services,  physicians  and 
certain  suppliers  meet  all  licensing  requirements 
of  state  or  local  health  authorities  [Medicare  Health 
Maintenance  Organization/Competitive  Medical 
Plan  Manual,  Transmittal  No.  7,  October  1991,  1030]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Regulation:  Health  professionals  means  physicians, 
dentists,  nurses,  podiatrists,  optometrists,  physi- 
cians' assistants,  clinical  psychologists,  social 
workers,  pharmacists,  nutritionists,  occupational 
therapists,  physical  therapists,  and  other  profession- 
als engaged  in  the  delivery  of  health  services  who 
are  licensed,  practice  under  the  instimtional  author- 
ity of  the  plan,  a  medical  group,  individual  practice 
association,  or  other  authority  consistent  with 
state  law  [42  CFR  417.1]. 

Under  general  authority,  credentialing  can 
be  addressed  under  42  CFR  417.124  which  requires 
that  the  plan  has  administrative  and  managerial 
arrangements  satisfactory  to  HCFA,  as  demon- 
strated in  part  by  personnel  and  systems  sufficient 
for  the  plan  to  organize,  plan,  control,  and  evaluate 
the  financial,  marketing,  health  services,  quality 
assurance  program,  administrative  and  manage- 
ments aspects  of  the  plan  [42  CFR  417.124(a)(2)]. 


Medicaid  % 

Guidelines:  There  are  written  policies  for  the 
credentialing  process  which  are  approved  by  the 
governing  body  or  its  designee  and  which,  at  a 
minimum,  encompasses  all  physicians,  dentists 
and  other  licensed  independent  practitioners. 

Initial  credentialing 

•  Collect  and  review  verification  of:  current 
license;  DEA  or  CDS  certificate;  graduation  from 
medical  school  and  completion  of  residency  or 
other  post-graduate  training,  as  applicable;  work 
history;  professional  liability  claims  history; 
clinical  privileges;  malpractice  insurance;  any 
revocation  or  suspension  of  state  license  or 
DEA/BNDD  number;  any  curtailment  or  suspen- 
sion of  medical  staff  privileges;  any  sanctions 
imposed  by  Medicare  or  Medicaid;  and  any  cen- 
sure by  the  state  or  county  Medical  Association. 

•  Review  statements  by  the  applicant  regarding 
any  physical  or  mental  health  problems;  history 
of  chemical  dependency/substance  abuse;  and 
history  of  loss  or  limitation  of  privileges  or 
disciplinary  activity. 

•  Visit  each  potential  primary  care  practitioner's 
office,  including  documentation  of  a  structured 
review  of  the  site  and  medical  record-keeping 
practices  [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement 
System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide 
for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care 
Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1995, 
Standard  IX,  pp.  21-22]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


97 


I I.J.2.  Credentialing/Recredentialing/Verification  (continued ) 


Recredentialing 

•  Review  current  standing  with  respect  to:  current 
license;  DEA  or  CDS  certificate;  graduation  from 
medical  school  and  completion  of  residency  or 
other  post-graduate  training,  as  applicable;  work 
history;  professional  liability  claims  history; 
clinical  privileges;  and  malpractice  insurance. 

•  Review  statements  by  the  applicant  regarding 
any  physical  or  mental  health  problems;  history 
of  chemical  dependency /substance  abuse;  and 
history  of  loss  or  limitation  of  privileges  or 
disciplinary  activity. 

•  Review  data  from  member  complaints,  results 
of  quality  reviews,  utilization  management,  and 
member  satisfaction  surveys  [A  Health  Care 
Quality  Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Man- 
aged Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau, 
Health  Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6, 
1995,  Standard  IX,  pp.  22-24]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Policy:  Clinicians  and  appropriate  care  providers 
are  licensed  in  the  jurisdiction(s)  served  by  the 
BPHC  funded  organization. 

Guidance:  The  initial  credentialing  process  ensures 
that  clinical  staff,  referral  staff,  and  outside  contrac- 
tors possess  the  training  (including  board  certifica- 
tion, as  appropriate),  experience,  competence  and 
eligibility  for  hospital  privileges  required  in  their 
job  descriptions.  (National  Practitioner  Databank 
query).  The  credentialing  process  is  approved  by 
the  Board  of  Directors.  There  is  a  system  in  place 
for  the  ongoing  recredentialing  of  clinical  staff, 
referral  staff,  and  outside  contractors  that  evaluates 
performance  and  licensure  and  certifies  capability 
to  continue  to  serve  on  the  BPHC  funded  organiza- 
tion staff.  Proper  documents  are  present  and  current 
in  clinical  statf  personnel  files  which  have  required 
documents  as  listed:  Professional  school  diploma, 
Certification  of  residency  training,  as  applicable, 
Hospital  privileges,  as  applicable,  Board  certifica- 


tion, as  applicable,  Immunization  status,  PPD  status, 
Current  License,  DEA  Registration,  References,  Life 
Support  Training,  Continuing  professional  educa- 
tion, Annual  performance  evaluation,  Malpractice 
insurance  or  FTCA,  National  Practitioner  Databank 
Inquiries,  Definition  of  privileges,  Current  contract, 
Supervision  agreement  (Non  physician  providers). 
[PCER  Clinical  Protocol  III.B.2...III.B.6.] 

ISEAIC 

Initial  credentialing:  A  health  carrier  must  obtain 
primary  verification  of  at  least  the  following  infor- 
mation about  the  applicant:  (1)  current  license, 
certificate  of  authority,  or  registration  to  practice 
a  health  care  profession  in  the  state  and  history  of 
licensure;  (2)  current  level  of  professional  liability 
coverage  (if  applicable);  (3)  status  of  hospital  privi- 
leges (if  applicable);  (4)  specialty  board  certification 
status  (if  applicable);  (5)  current  Drug  Enforcement 
Agency  (DEA)  registration  certificate  (if  applicable); 
(6)  graduation  from  the  relevant  health  care  profes- 
sional school;  and  (7)  completion  of  post  graduate 
training  (if  applicable).  [NAIC,  Health  Care  Profes- 
sional Credentialing  Verification  Model  Act,  Model 
Regulation  Service  -  July  1996,  Section  6A.] 

A  health  carrier  must  also  obtain  either 
primary  or  secondary  verification,  at  the  discretion 
of  the  carrier,  of  the  health  professional's  license 
history,  malpractice  history,  and  practice  history. 
[NAIC,  Health  Care  Professional  Credentialing 
Verification  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  - 
July  1996,  Section  6B.] 

Recredentialing:  A  health  carrier,  when  recreden- 
tialing a  health  care  professional,  must  obtain 
primary  verification  of  the  health  professional's 
current  license,  certificate  of  authority,  or  registra- 
tion to  practice  in  the  state;  the  professional's 
current  level  of  professional  liability  coverage,  if 
applicable;  the  status  of  the  professional's  hospital 
privileges,  if  applicable;  the  professional's  current 
DEA  registration  certificate,  if  applicable;  and  the 


liluc  Cross  and  film-  Shield  Association 


98 


II.J.2.  Credentialing/Recredentialing/Verification  (continued) 


professional's  specialty  board  certification  status, 
if  applicable.  [NAIC,  Health  Care  Professional  Cre- 
dentialing  Verification  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation 
Service  -  July  1996,  Section  6C]  FILLIN 

JCAHO 

The  competence  of  all  personnel  and  clinical  staff 
is  continuously  assessed,  maintained,  and  improved 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Management  of  Human  Resources,  HR.2]. 

All  individuals  permitted  by  law  and  by  the 
network  to  practice  independently  in  the  network 
are  appointed  or  reappointed  to  the  network's  prac- 
titioner panel  through  a  defined  process(es)  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works, Management  of  Human  Resources,  HR.3]. 

Written  criteria  are  uniformly  applied  to 
licensed  independent  practitioners  requesting  mem- 
bership on  the  network's  practitioner  panel  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works, Management  of  Human  Resources,  HR.5.6]. 

Each  applicant  for  initial  appointment 
completes  an  application  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Management 
of  Human  Resources,  HR.3. 7]. 

Each  applicant  provides  information  about 
previously  successful  or  currently  pending  chal- 
lenges to  any  licensure  or  registration  or  the  volun- 
tary relinquishment  of  such  licensure  or  registration 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Management  of  Human  Resources, 
HR.5.7.1]. 

Each  applicant  provides  information  about 
voluntary  or  involuntary  termination  of  professional 
or  medical  staff  membership  or  limitation,  reduc- 
tion, or  loss  of  clinical  privileges  at  a  hospital 
or  other  health  care  delivery  setting  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Management  of  Human  Resources,  HR.3. 7.2]. 


Each  applicant  provides  information  about 
his  or  her  involvement  in  professional  liability 
actions  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Management  of  Human 
Resources,  HR.3.7.3]. 

Each  applicant  provides  a  statement  of  ability 
to  perform  requested  professional  activities  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works, Management  of  Human  Resources,  HR.3. 7.4]. 

Each  applicant  provides  a  chronological  work 
history  covering  at  least  the  past  ten  years  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works, Management  of  Human  Resources,  HR.3. 7.5]. 

Each  applicant  signs  a  statement  consenting 
to  inspection  of  records  and  documents  pertinent 
to  his  or  her  application  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Management 
of  Human  Resources,  HR.3. 7.6]. 

Each  applicant  signs  a  statement  attesting 
to  the  accuracy  and  completeness  of  all  information 
provided  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Management  of  Human 
Resources,  HR.3. 7. 7]. 

Current  licensure  is  verified  from  primary 
sources  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Management  of  Human 
Resources,  HR.5.8]. 

Relevant  education  is  verified  from  primary 
sources  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Management  of  Human 
Resources,  HR.3. 9]. 

Relevant  training  is  verified  from  primary 
sources  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Management  of  Human 
Resources,  HR.3.10]. 

Relevant  experience  is  verified  from  primary 
sources  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Management  of  Human 
Resources,  HR.3.11]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


99 


II.J.2.  Credentialing/Recredentialing/Verification  (continued ) 


Current  competence  is  verified  from  primary 
sources  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Management  of  Human 
Resources,  HR.3.12]. 

Information  about  involvement  in  professional 
liability  actions  is  verified  under  circumstances 
specified  in  the  appointment  criteria  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Management  of  Human  Resources,  HR.3.13]. 

When  required  by  the  network,  the  amount 
and  source  of  liability  insurance  are  verified  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works, Management  of  Human  Resources,  HR.3.14]. 

Appointment  is  withheld  until  the  require- 
ments of  HR.3.8  through  HR.3.12  are  made  available 
and  verified  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Management  of  Human 
Resources,  HR.3.15]. 

The  network  evaluates  the  clinical  records 
and  office  practices  of  each  practitioner  being 
considered  for  appointment  to  the  network's  practi- 
tioner panel  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Management  of  Human 
Resources,  HR.3.16]. 

The  network  uses  predetermined  measures 
appropriate  to  care  delivered  at  each  practitioner 
site  to  make  its  evaluations  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Management 
of  Human  Resources,  HR.3.16.1]. 

Candidates  for  reappointment  complete  an 
application  that  updates  all  information  required  by 
HR.3.7.1  through  HR.3.7.7  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Management 
of  Human  Resources,  HR.3.17]. 

All  updated  information  required  by  HR. 
3.8  through  HR.3.12  is  verified  from  the  primary 
sources  before  reappointment  [1996  Joint  Com- 
mission standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Management  of  Human  Resources,  IIR.3.18]. 


The  network  evaluates  the  clinical  records  and 
office  practices  of  a  subset  of  sites  where  practition- 
ers being  considered  for  reappointment  provide  care 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Management  of  Human  Resources, 
II R.  5. 19]. 

The  network  uses  predetermined  measures 
appropriate  to  care  delivered  at  each  practitioner 
site  to  make  its  evaluations  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Management 
of  Human  Resources,  HR.3.19.1]. 

At  reappointment,  practitioner-specific  infor- 
mation from  performance  improvement  activities 
is  compared  to  aggregate  information  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Management  of  Human  Resources,  HR.3.20]. 

NCQA 

The  MCO  has  written  policies  and  procedures  for 
the  credentialing  process  that  include  original  cre- 
dentialing,  recredentialing,  recertifieation,  and/or 
reappointment  of  physicians  and  other  licensed 
independent  practitioners  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  Credentialing,  1996,  CR  1.0]. 

Initial  credentialing 

•  The  MCO  obtains  and  reviews  verification  from 
primary  sources  of  the  following:  current  valid 
license  to  practice;  clinical  privileges  in  good 
standing  at  the  hospital  designated  by  the  practi- 
tioner as  the  primary  admitting  facility;  a  valid 
DEA  or  CDS  certificate,  as  applicable;  graduation 
from  medical  school  and  completion  of  a  resi- 
dency, or  Roard  certification,  as  applicable;  work 
history;  current,  adequate  malpractice  insurance; 
and  professional  liability  claims  history  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Credentialing 
Standards,  1996,  CR  5.0]. 

•  The  applicant  completes  an  application  which 
includes  a  statement  regarding  physical  and 
mental  health  status,  lack  of  impairment  due 


Blue  (  l  oss  < 1 1 ■  1 1  Blue  Shield  Vssociation 


100 


II.J.2.  Credentialing/ Reeredentialing/ Verification  (continued) 


to  chemical  dependency/substance  abuse,  history 
of  loss  of  license  and/or  felony  convictions  and 
history  or  limitation  of  privileges  or  disciplinary 
activity  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Credentialing,  1996,  CR  6.0,  6.1,  6.2]. 

•  The  organization  requests  information  on  the 
practitioner  from  recognized  monitoring  organi- 
zations which  include  the  National  Practitioner 
Data  Banks,  State  Board  of  Medical  Examiners, 
Medicare,  Medicaid  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accred- 
itation, Credentialing,  1996,  CR  7.0]. 

•  There  is  an  initial  visit  to  each  potential  primary 
care  practitioner's  office  and  to  the  offices  of 
obstetricians/gynecologists  and  other  high-vol- 
ume specialists,  which  results  in  a  structured 
review  of  the  site  and  of  medical  record-keeping 
practices  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Credentialing,  1996,  CR  8.0-8.1]. 

Reeredentialing 

•  The  MCO  obtains  and  reviews  verification  from 
primary  sources  of  the  following:  current  valid 
license  to  practice;  clinical  privileges  in  good 
standing  at  the  hospital  designated  by  the  practi- 
tioner as  the  primary  admitting  facility;  a  valid 
DEA  or  CDS  certificate,  as  applicable;  Board 
certification,  as  applicable;  work  history;  current, 
adequate  malpractice  insurance;  and  professional 
liability  claims  history  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  Credentialing,  1996,  CR  10.2]. 

•  The  applicant  makes-  a  statement  regarding 
physical  and  mental  health  status,  and  lack  of 
impairment  due  to  chemical  dependency/sub- 
stance abuse  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Credentialing,  1996,  CR  10.3]. 

•  The  organization  requests  information  on 
the  practitioner  from  recognized  monitoring 
organizations,  including  the  National  Practitioner 
Data  Banks,  State  Board  of  Medical  Examiners, 
Medicare,  Medicaid  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accred- 
itation, Credentialing  1996,  CR  11.0]. 


•  The  reeredentialing  process  includes  review  of 
data  from  member  complaints;  results  of  quality 
reviews;  utilization  management;  and  member 
satisfaction  surveys  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accred- 
itation, Credentialing  1996,  CR  12.0]. 

•  An  on-site  visit  to  provider  offices  (primary  care 
providers,  obstetricians/gynecologists,  and  high- 
volume  specialists)  that  includes  a  structured 
review  of  the  site  and  of  medical  record-keeping 
practices  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Credentialing,  1996,  CR  13.0]. 

•  The  MCO  has  policies  and  procedures  for 
reducing,  suspending,  or  terminating  practitioner 
privileges  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Credentialing,  1996,  CR  14.0]. 

URAC 

The  Network  shall  require  each  health  care  practi- 
tioner to  complete  a  comprehensive  credentialing 
application  that  includes:  personal  information; 
practice  information;  education,  training,  and  work 
history;  professional  and  hospital  affiliations;  licen- 
sure, specialty  certification,  and  DEA  Registration 
information;  professional  liability  insurance  infor- 
mation; professional  liability  claims  history;  history 
of  government  program  sanctions;  disclosure  of  any 
physical,  mental  or  substance  abuse  problem(s)  that 
would  impede  applicant's  ability  to  perform  accord- 
ing to  accepted  standards  of  professional  perfor- 
mance or  pose  a  threat  to  the  health  and  safety  of 
patients;  and  a  statement  of  completeness,  veracity, 
and  release  of  information  signed  and  dated  by 
the  applicant  {National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  PC  6.0  to  6.10). 

The  Network  shall  verify  each  of  the  following 
credentials  where  applicable:  medical  license 
(primary);  board  certification(s);  hospital  privileges 
(primary);  professional  liability  history;  DEA  Regis- 
tration Certificate;  professional  liability  insurance 
coverage;  disciplinary  actions  taken  under  state 
or  federal  regulation;  medical  and  professional 
education  and  training  {National  Network  Accredita- 
tion Standards,  April  1996,  PC  7.0  to  PC  7.8). 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


101 


I  I.J.2.  Credentialing/ Recredential  ins/Verification  (continued ) 


The  Network  shall  implement  a  documented 
credentialing  process  that  includes  a  review  of 
credentials  by  Network  staff  to  ensure  that  the  appli- 
cation is  complete  and  the  required  documentation 
has  been  submitted  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  PC  8.1  ). 

The  Network  shall  maintain  management 
control  and  oversight  of  all  credentialing  delegated 
or  subcontracted  to  another  organization  (National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  PC  9.0). 

The  recredentialing  process  includes: 

•  verification  of  the  current  status  of  the  practi- 
tioner's medical/professional  license,  board 
certification(s),  professional  liability  insurance 
coverage,  DEA  Registration  Certificate,  and 
hospital  privileges  where  applicable; 

•  an  update  of  practitioner's  professional  liability 
history  and  disciplinary  actions  taken  under  state 
or  federal  regulation; 

•  disclosure  of  any  physical,  mental,  or  substance 
abuse  problem(s)  that  would  impede  applicant's 
ability  to  perform  according  to  accepted 
standards  of  professional  performance  or  pose 

a  threat  to  the  health  and  safety  of  patients 
(National  Network  Accr  editation  Standards, 
April  1996,  PC  11.0  to  PC  11.3). 

The  Network  shall  develop  and  formally 
adopt  a  written  Credentialing  Plan  that  contains 
information  about: 

•  the  purpose  and  scope  of  the  Program; 

•  the  organization  and  structure  of  the 
Credentialing  Committee; 

•  the  responsibilities  of  the  Credentialing 
Committee,  the  Medical  Director,  and  the 
credentialing  staff; 

•  the  credentialing  criteria,  standards,  or 
requirements; 

•  credentialing  documentation  required; 

•  the  credentialing  process,  including  levels  of 
review  and  actions  taken  at  each  level  of  review; 

•  verification  of  credentials; 


•  sanctions  and  disciplinary  actions  used  by 
the  Network; 

•  a  statement  of  nondiscrimination  in  the 
credentialing  process; 

•  recredentialing  policies  and  procedures; 

•  termination  of  participation  status  as  a  result 
of  recredentialing  including  grounds  for  denial 
of  participation; 

•  the  appeals  mechanism; 

•  confidentiality  and  conflict  of  interest; 

•  amendment  of  the  Network's  Credentialing  Plan 
(National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  PC  5.0  to  PC  5.14). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  The  plan  has  policies  and  procedures  for 
provider  selection  and  qualifications  [Chapter  4685, 
Department  of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organi- 
zations, 4685. ff  10,  Subp.ll]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  The  plan  has  a  credentialing  process 
for  verifying  upon  initial  hiring,  and  on  a  continu- 
ing basis  thereafter,  that  providers  are  qualified  to 
provide  the  planned  services  [Procedural,  ODH] 

Initial  credentialing  includes,  but  is  not  limited  to, 
the  following  criteria: 

•  current  licensure,  certification  or  registration 
with  the  State; 

•  written  references; 

•  prior  or  pending  malpractice  litigation; 

•  adequate  malpractice  insurance; 

•  complaints  received  and  any  disciplinary 
action  initiated  against  the  provider  by  the 
Medical  Board; 

•  criminal  convictions; 

•  revocation  or  suspension  of  DEA/BNDD  number; 


Blur  Cross  .mil  Blue  Shield  Vsscicialinn 


102 


II.J.2.  Credentialing/Recredentialing/Yerification  (continued) 


•  curtailing,  suspension  or  termination  of  hospital 
medical  staff  privileges;  and 

•  any  documented  history  of  high  complication 
rates,  morbidity  and  mortality"  rates  or  engaging 
in  unproven  medical  practices  [Procedural, 
(ODH)]. 

Recredentialing:  No  standard  specified. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  has  written  procedures  for  the 
initial  credentialing  process  for  physicians  and 
other  licensed  independent  practitioners  [Ohio 
Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-072(B)(l)]. 

Initial  credentialing  includes: 

•  The  collection  and  verification  of:  current 
valid  license  to  practice;  current  DEA  certificate, 
as  applicable;  graduation  from  medical  school 
and  completion  of  residency,  or  other  training, 
as  applicable;  pertinent  professional  history; 
professional  liability  claims  history;  good  stand- 
ing of  clinical  privileges  at  the  designated  hospi- 
tal; current  and  adequate  malpractice  insurance; 
any  revocation  or  suspension  of  a  state  license 
or  DEA  number;  any  curtailment  or  suspension 
of  medical  staff  privileges  (other  than  for  incom- 
plete medical  records);  any  sanctions  imposed 
by  Medicare  or  Medicaid;  any  information  main- 
tained by  the  National  Practitioner  Data  Bank 
and  the  State  Board  of  Medical  Examiners;  and 
statements  from  the  applicant  regarding  any 
physical  or  mental  health  problems  that  may 
affect  ability  to  provide  health  care;  any  history 
of  chemical  dependency/substance  abuse;  history 
of  loss  of  license  and/or  felony  convictions; 
history  of  loss  or  limitation  of  privileges  or 
disciplinary  activity;  and  an  attestation  to 
corrections/completeness  of  the  application. 

•  A  site  visit  to  each  potential  primary  care 
practitioner's  office  to  ensure  conformance  to 
HMO  standards  [Ohio  Administrative  Code, 
Chapter  5101:3-26-071  (F)  (3)]. 

Recredentialing  includes: 


•  The  verification  of  state  licensure;  valid  DEA  as 
applicable;  graduation  from  medical  school  and 
completion  of  residency  or  other  post-graduate 
training,  as  applicable;  work  history;  professional 
liability  claims  history,  good  standing  of  hospital 
clinical  privileges;  liability  insurance;  and  infor- 
mation requested  by  MCP  from  National  Practi- 
tioner Data  Bank  and  the  State  Board  of  Medical 
Examiners. 

•  An  attestation  from  the  practitioner  regarding 
physical  or  mental  problems  which  may  affect 
service  provision. 

•  A  review  of  data  from  member  complaints; 
results  from  quality  reviews;  utilization 
management;  and  member  satisfaction  surveys 
[Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101: 
5-26-071  (F)  (6)]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  The  plan  establishes  credentialing  and 
recredentialing  standards  [HMO  Certification  of 
Uithorih  \pplication  Materials.  J 1  \ M  )  \pplications. 
Technical  Advice  and  Assistance,  p.l]. 

Initial  credentialing:  All  primary  care  physicians 
are  site-visited  as  a  part  of  the  credentialing  process 
to  assess  availability  and  accessibility  of  services 
for  new  enrollees.  There  is  evidence,  through 
review  of  the  appointment  book,  of  average  number 
of  patients  seen  per  hour,  availability  of  emergency 
appointments,  etc.  [HMO  Certification  of  Authority 
Application  Materials,  HMO  Applications,  Technical 
Advice  and  Assistance,  p.  1-2]. 

At  the  time  of  credentialing,  there  is  documen- 
tation of  at  least  a  preliminary  assessment  of  the 
primary  care  provider's  medical  records  for  compli- 
ance with  plan  medical  record  keeping  standards 
using  the  NCQA  medical  record  assessment  tool 
[HMO  Certification  of  Authority  Application  Materi- 
als, HMO  Applications,  Technical  Advice  and 
Assistance,  p.2]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


105 


I  I..J.2.  Credentialing/ Recredentialing/Verification  (continued) 


Medicaid:  There  are  specific  provider  credentialing 
and  recredentialing  requirements  [Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agree- 
ment, Section  14,  Quality  Assurance  and  Utilization 
Review,  Attachment  IV,  X]. 

Minimum  credentialing  criteria  include: 

•  maintain  a  current  Pennsylvania  medical  license; 

•  conform  to  the  Principles  of  Ethics  of  the 
American  Medical  Association  or  the  American 
Osteopathic  Association; 

•  personally  perform  or  directly  supervise  the 
ambulatory  primary  care  services  of  the  enrollee; 

•  be  a  member  of  the  medical  staff  with  admitting 
privileges  to  at  least  one  accredited  general 
hospital  in  the  service  area; 

•  earn  continuing  medical  education  credits; 

•  attend  at  least  one  session  on  case  management 
policies  and  procedures  per  year;  and 

•  have  a  current  provider  agreement  with 

the  department  [Pennsylvania  Department  of 
Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section  9, 
Provider  Enrollment  and  Handbooks,  9.3]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


104 


U.K.  Utilization  Management/ 
Underutilization 


Medicare 

Statute:  The  plan  does  not  operate  a  physician 
incentive  plan  unless  the  following  requirements 
are  met:  (1)  no  payment  is  made  directly  or  indi- 
rectly as  an  inducement  to  reduce  or  limit  medically 
necessary  services  to  a  specific  individual;  (2)  if  the 
plan  places  physicians  at  substantial  financial  risk, 
the  organization  provides  adequate  stop-loss  protec- 
tions for  physicians  and  conducts  periodic  surveys 
of  current  and  prior  members  to  determine  access 
to  services  and  the  degree  of  satisfaction  with  the 
quality  of  services;  and  (3)  the  organization  pro- 
vides HCFA  with  descriptive  information  regarding 
the  plan  [Section  1876  (i)(8)]. 

Regulation:  On  or  after  January  1, 1997.  No  specific 
payment  of  any  kind  may  be  made  directly  or  indi- 
rectly under  the  incentive  plan  to  a  physician  or 
physician  group  as  an  inducement  to  reduce  or  limit 
covered  medically  necessary  services  covered  under 
the  organization's  contract  furnished  to  an  individ- 
ual enrollee.  Indirect  payments  include  offerings 
of  monetary  value  (such  as  stock  options  or  waivers 
of  debt)  measured  in  the  present  or  future  [42  CFR 
417.479(d)]. 

Organizations  that  operate  incentive  plans  that 
place  physicians  or  physician  groups  at  substantial 
financial  risk,  determined  to  be  25  percent  of  poten- 
tial payments,  must  conduct  enrollee/disenrollee 
surveys  of  quality  and  access,  and  ensure  that  all 
physicians  and  physician  groups  at  substantial 
financial  risk  have  either  aggregate  or  per-patient 
stop-loss  protection  in  accordance  with  the  regula- 
tory requirements  [42  CFR  417.479(g) (2)(i)-(iii)]. 

Policy:  The  information  system  has  the  capability 
to  aggregate  data  to  identify  patterns  of  suspected 
aberrant  care,  such  as  underutilization,  inappropri- 


ate utilization,  adverse  outcomes,  or  substandard 
care.  The  system  has  the  capability  to  support  both 
individual  and  pattern  analysis  [Manual  for  Feder- 
ally Qualified  Health  Maintenance  Organizations 
(Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal 
No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.4.A]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Regulation:  There  are  effective  procedures  to  moni- 
tor utilization,  control  costs  and  achieve  utilization 
goals  [42  CFR  417.103(b)]. 

Policy:  The  information  system  has  the  capability 
to  aggregate  data  to  identify  patterns  of  suspected 
aberrant  care,  such  as  underutilization,  inappropri- 
ate utilization,  adverse  outcomes,  or  substandard 
care  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service 
Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.4.A]. 

Plans  consider  the  effect  on  patient  care 
and  health  outcomes  of  physician  compensation 
arrangements  that  encourage  physicians  to  control 
use  of  services  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public 
Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November 
1989,  4201.2.C]. 

Medicaid 

Statute:  The  plan  does  not  operate  a  physician 
incentive  plan  unless  the  following  requirements 
are  met:  (1)  no  payment  is  made  directly  or  indi- 
rectly as  an  inducement  to  reduce  or  limit  medically 
necessary  services  to  a  specific  individual;  (2)  if  the 
plan  places  physicians  at  substantial  financial  risk, 
the  organization  provides  adequate  stop-loss 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


105 


U.K.  Utilization  Management/ L  nderutilization  (continued) 


protections  for  physicians  and  conducts  periodic 
surveys  of  current  and  prior  members  to  determine 
access  to  services  and  the  degree  of  satisfaction 
with  the  quality  of  services;  and  (3)  the  organization 
provides  the  State  Medicaid  agency  with  descriptive 
information  regarding  the  plan  [Sections 
1903(m)(2)(A)(x)  and  1876  (i)(8)  of  the  Social 
Security  Act]. 

Regulation:  On  or  after  January  1, 1997.  No  specific 
payment  of  any  kind  may  be  made  directly  or 
indirectly  under  the  incentive  plan  to  a  physician  or 
physician  group  as  an  inducement  to  reduce  or  limit 
covered  medically  necessary  services  covered  under 
the  organization's  contract  furnished  to  an  individ- 
ual enrollee.  Indirect  payments  include  offerings  of 
monetary  value  (such  as  stock  options  or  waivers 
of  debt)  measured  in  the  present  or  future  [42  CFR 
417.479(d)]. 

Organizations  that  operate  incentive  plans 
that  place  physicians  or  physician  groups  at  sub- 
stantial financial  risk,  determined  to  be  25  percent 
of  potential  payments,  must  conduct  enrollee/disen- 
rollee  surveys  of  quality  and  access,  and  ensure  that 
all  physicians  and  physician  groups  at  substantial 
financial  risk  have  either  aggregate  or  per-patient 
stop-loss  protection  in  accordance  with  the  regula- 
tory requirements  [42  CFR  417.479(g)(2)(i)-(iii)]. 

Guidelines:  The  plan  has  a  utilization  management 
program  which  includes,  at  a  minimum,  procedures 
to  evaluate  medical  necessity,  underutilization 
as  well  as  overutilization  of  service;  criteria  used; 
information  sources;  and  the  process  used  to  review 
and  approve  the  provision  of  medical  services 
[A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for 
Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medic- 
aid Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration, 
.lul\  6,  1993,  Standard  XIII,  p.  31]. 

The  plan  has  mechanisms  to  detect  underuti- 
lization as  well  as  overutilization  [A  Health  Care 
Quality  Improvement  Sy  stem  for  Medicaid  Managed 
Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health 
Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993, 
Standard  XIII,  p.  31] 


Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Program  Expectation:  BPHC  funded  organizations 
have  a  utilization  management  (UM)  plan  that 
addresses:  diagnostic  or  therapeutic  procedures  for 
the  member's  problem,  provider,  level  of  care  (inpa- 
tient, ambulatory,  surgery,  etc.),  duration  of  services 
(e.g.,  Length  Of  Stay).  BPHC  funded  organizations 
involved  (or  planning  to  be  involved)  in  an  at-risk 
managed  care  program  must  have  a  utilization  man- 
agement component.  Many  managed  care  plans 
require  review  of  services  by  either  the  contractor 
(health  care  center)  or  the  plan  UM  program. 
Of  particular  importance  are  any  elements  in  the 
authorization  process  which  may  hinder  needed 
access  or  potentially  impact  the  financial  viability 
of  the  BPHC  funded  organization  due  to  increased 
expense  from  unneeded  referrals.  [PCER  Clinical 
Protocol  IV.E.6  &  IV.E.7] 

NAIC 

A  health  carrier  that  conducts  utilization  review 
must  implement  a  written  UR  program  that 
includes:  procedures  to  evaluate  the  clinical  neces- 
sity, appropriateness,  efficacy  or  efficiency  of  health 
services;  data  sources  and  clinical  review  criteria 
used  in  decision-making;  the  process  for  conducting 
appeals  of  adverse  determinations;  mechanisms  to 
ensure  consistent  application  of  review  criteria  and 
compatible  decisions;  data  collection  processes  and 
analytical  methods  used  in  assessing  the  utilization 
of  health  care  services;  provisions  for  assuring  the 
confidentiality  of  clinical  and  proprietary  informa- 
tion; the  organizational  structure  (e.g.,  utilization 
review  committee,  quality  assurance  or  other  com- 
mittee) that  periodically  assesses  UR  activities  and 
reports  to  the  health  carrier's  governing  body;  and 
the  staff  position  functionally  responsible  for  day-to- 
day program  management.  The  health  carrier  must 
file  an  annual  summary  report  of  its  UR  activities 
with  the  commissioner  or  other  appropriate  state 
regulatory  agency.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Utiliza- 
tion Review  Model  Act,  6/4/96,  Section  7] 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


llll) 


ILK.  Utilization  Management/ Underutilization  (continued) 


A  health  carrier's  UR  program  must  meet 
the  operational  requirements  set  forth  in  the  model 
act.  The  program  must  use  documented  clinical 
review  criteria  that  are  based  on  sound  clinical  evi- 
dence and  evaluated  periodically  to  assure  ongoing 
efficacy.  Qualified  health  care  professionals  must 
administer  the  UR  program  and  oversee  review 
decisions.  A  clinical  peer  must  evaluate  the  appro- 
priateness of  adverse  determinations.  A  health  car- 
rier must  issue  UR  decisions  in  a  timely  manner  as 
established  by  the  act's  requirements.  The  carrier 
must  also  routinely  assess  the  effectiveness  and  effi- 
ciency of  its  UR  program.  Its  data  systems  must  be 
sufficient  to  support  UR  program  activities  and  gen- 
erate management  reports  that  enable  the  carrier  to 
monitor  and  manage  health  care  services  effectively. 
A  health  carrier  must  maintain  adequate  oversight 
of  any  utilization  review  organization  to  which  it 
delegates  UR  activities.  It  must  coordinate  its  UR 
program  with  other  medical  management  activity 
conducted  by  the  carrier.  Compensation  to  any 
persons  or  organizations  performing  UR  services 
for  the  carrier  may  not  contain  incentives  for  those 
persons  to  make  inappropriate  review  decisions  and 
may  not  be  based  on  the  quantity  or  type  of  adverse 
determinations  rendered.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards, 
Utilization  Review  Model  Act,  6/4/96,  Section  8.] 

A  health  carrier's  quality  improvement 
program  must  use  a  range  of  methods  to  analyze 
quality,  including  the  collection  and  analysis  of 
information  on  both  over-utilization  and  under- 
utilization of  services.  It  must  also  identify  targeted 
diagnoses  and  treatments  to  be  reviewed  by  the  car- 
rier each  year.  In  choosing  the  targeted  diagnoses 
and  treatments,  the  carrier  is  required  to  consider 
practices  and  diagnoses  that  affect  a  substantial 
number  of  the  plan's  covered  persons  or  that  could 
place  covered  persons  at  serious  risk.  [NAIC,  Quality 
Assessment  and  Improvement  Model  Act,  Model 
Regulation  Service  -  July  1996,  Sections  6C(2)(b) 
and  (c).] 


JCAHO 

When  the  network  or  an  external  entity  conducts 
a  utilization  review  of  a  licensed  independent  prac- 
titioner's or  network  component's  care  that  results 
in  denial  of  payment,  decision  by  the  licensed 
independent  practitioner  or  network  component 
regarding  ongoing  care  or  discharge  are  based  on 
the  care  required  by  the  member's  assessed  needs 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Continuum  of  Care,  CC.8]. 

When  utilization  review  results  in  an  adverse 
utilization  management  decision,  the  network  pro- 
vides the  criteria  for  the  decision  and  information 
regarding  appeal  to  the  licensed  independent  practi- 
tioner responsible  for  the  member's  care  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Continuum  of  Care,  CC.8.1]. 

The  network  measures  important  processes 
or  outcomes  of  functions  described  in  this  manual 
that  are  related  to  network  and  member  services 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.3.1]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  impor- 
tant processes  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI.3.2]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  member 
entry,  assessment,  and  treatment  processes  [1996 
Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works, Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.3.2. 5]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  processes 
related  to  the  movement  of  members  among  net- 
work components  and  practitioner  sites  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.3.2.4]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  processes 
associated  with  important  adverse  clinical  events 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Improving  Network  Performance, 
PI.3.2.5]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


107 


U.K.  Utilization  Management/Underutilization  (continued) 


The  network  continuously  measures  preven- 
tive services  and  health-promotion  programs  to 
evaluate  their  effectiveness  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving 
Network  Performance,  PI. 3.2. 6]. 

The  network  continuously  measures  the  use 
of  clinical  resources  [1996  Joint  Commission  stan- 
dards for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI. 3.2. 7]. 

NCQA 

The  MCO  has  a  documented  utilization  manage- 
ment program  description  that  describes  both 
delegated  and  nonclelegated  activities,  and  which 
includes,  at  a  minimum,  policies  and  procedures 
to  evaluate  medical  necessity,  criteria  used,  infor- 
mation sources  and  the  process  used  to  review 
and  approve  the  provision  of  medical  services 
[NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Utilization 
Management,  1996,  UM  1.0,  1.1]. 

There  is  a  mechanism  for  updating  the 
UM  program  description  on  a  periodic  basis 
[NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  /  tilization 
Management,  1996,  UM  1.2]. 

Where  procedures  arc  used  for  preauthoriza- 
tion  and  concurrent  review,  qualified  medical 
professionals  supervise  review  decisions  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Utilization  Manage- 
ment, 1996,  UM  2.0]. 

URAC 

The  Network/UMO  shall  maintain  and  document 
an  ongoing  UM  quality  management  program  that 
promotes  objective  and  systematic  monitoring  and 
evaluation  of  UM  processes  and  services  {National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996, 
UM  17.0). 

The  Network/UMO  shall  maintain  written 
policies  and  procedures  that  govern  all  aspects 
of  the  UM  process  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  UM  11.0). 


The  Network/UMO  shall  utilize  explicit 
clinical  review  criteria  that: 

•  are  developed  with  the  involvement  of  appropri- 
ate and  active  providers; 

•  are  based  on  sound  clinical  principles  and 

processes; 

•  are  evaluated  and  updated  at  least  annually; 

•  are  disclosed  to  the  provider  and/or  patient  if 
used  for  a  noncertification  decision  (National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996, 
UM  13.0  to  UM  13.4). 

The  Network/UMO  shall  conduct  a  periodic 
formal  program  of  training,  as  well  as  ongoing 
monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the  performance  of 
all  staff  involved  in  all  levels  of  the  review  process 
(National  Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April 
1996,  UM  16.0). 

The  Network/UMO  should,  as  part  of  its 
UM  Quality  Management  Program,  include  a 
written  plan  addressing:  scope  and  objectives; 
program  organization;  monitoring  and  oversight 
mechanisms;  and  evaluation  and  organizational 
improvement  of  clinical  review  activities  (National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996, 
UM  18.0  to  UM  18.4). 

The  Network/UMO  shall  provide  a  mechanism 
to  appeal  determinations  not  to  certify  that  includes: 

•  written  procedures  for  appeals  of  determinations 
not  to  certify  an  admission,  procedure,  service, 
or  extension  of  stay; 

•  the  right  of  the  patient,  enrollee,  attending 
physician,  or  other  ordering  provider  to  appeal 
determinations  not  to  certify; 

•  both  expedited  and  standard  appeals  that  are 
reviewed  by  a  peer  reviewer  other  than  the  peer 
reviewer  who  made  the  initial  determination 
not  to  certify; 

•  the  opportunity  for  the  facility  rendering  service 
to  initiate  an  appeal  at  the  request  of  the  patient; 

•  assurance  that  a  clinical  peer  is  reasonably 
available  to  review  the  case  (National  Network 
Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  UM  30.0  to 
UM  30.5). 


Mm*  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


108 


U.K.  Utilization  Management/Underutilization  (continued) 


The  Network/ U MO  shall  have  written  proce- 
dures to  assure  that  reviews  and  second  opinions 
are  conducted  in  a  timely  manner  (National  Net- 
work Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  UM  25.0). 

When  a  determination  is  made  not  to  certify: 

•  notify  the  provider  by  telephone  within  one 
business  day,  and  send  written  notification  to 
the  provider  and  the  enrollee  or  patient  within 
one  business  day; 

•  the  written  notification  must  include  the  princi- 
pal reason(s)  for  noncertilication,  and  instruc- 
tions for  initiating  an  appeal  and/or  requesting 
the  clinical  rationale  in  writing; 

•  upon  request,  the  clinical  rationale  for  that 
determination  shall  be  provided  in  writing  to  all 
parties  who  received  the  original  determination 
(National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  UM  26.4). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  Data  from  the  plan's  utilization  review 
activities  are  reported  to  the  quality  assurance  pro- 
gram for  analysis  at  least  quarterly  [Chapter  4685, 
Department  of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organi- 
zations, 4685.1110,  Subp.10].  Community  integrated 
service  networks  are  exempt  from  having  to  report 
this  data  on  a  quarterly  basis. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  considers  the  following 
variables  in  performing  its  utilization  monitoring 
function: 

•  capacity  of  its  provider  network; 

•  geographic  accessibility  of  its  provider  network; 

•  waiting  times  for  appointments; 

•  no-shows  for  appointments; 

•  availability  of  culturally  competent  care/inter- 
preters; 

•  clinic  hours; 

•  24-hour  access  for  emergency  situations; 

•  provider  profiling; 

•  tracking  of  referrals; 


•  written  protocols  and  established  time  frames 
for  prior  approval,  second  medical  opinion, 
concurrent  review  and  discharge  planning; 

•  production  of  regular  utilization  review 
management  reports;  and 

•  appropriate  management  of  high-risk  cases 
[Request  for  Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/Gen- 
eral Assistance  Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare, 
Minnesota  Senior  Health  Options,  Managed  Care 
Health  Plan  Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  There  is  a  procedure  to  gather  and 
report  statistics  relating  to  the  cost  and  effectiveness 
of  operations,  pattern  of  utilization  and  the  quality, 
availability  and  accessibility  of  services  [Ohio 
Revised  Code,  1742.04(A)(5)]. 

A  utilization  review  committee  is  established 
whose  activities  include  the  analysis  of  in-plan/out- 
of-plan  utilization,  analysis  of  referral  trends,  analy- 
sis of  ambulatory  treatment  patterns,  and  analysis 
of  inpatient  hospital  utilization  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  There  is  a  written  description  of 

the  plan's  utilization  review  program  which  must 
meet  state  specifications  including  mechanisms 
to  detect  underutilization  as  well  as  overutiliza- 
tion  [Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3- 
26-071  (G)(1)(f)]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  There  is  a  procedure  to  assure  that 
only  those  services  which  represent  proper 
utilization  of  health  care  facilities  and  conform 
to  contractual  provisions  are  provided  [28  Pa. 
Code,  Section  9.74(a)(2)]. 

The  quality  assurance  program  examines 
the  use  of  specialists  to  detect  inappropriate, 
underutilization,  and  overutilization  [Appendix  I, 
Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health,  HMO  Quality 
Assurance  Standards,  B.2.5]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


109 


U.K.  Utilization  Management/rnderutilization  (continued) 


Also  see  NCQA  Standards  as  informally 
adopted  by  the  Department. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  analyzes  quarterly  utilization 
profiles  and  follow-up  on  underutilization  and 
overutilization,  based  on  established  standards 
[Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public  Welfare, 
Operating  Agreement,  Section  14,  Quality  Assurance 
and  I  tilization  Review,  Attachment  IV]. 

There  are  procedures  for  monitoring  the 
quality  and  adequacy  of  medical  care,  including 
assessing  the  use  of  distributed  guidelines  and 
possible  under-treatment/underutilization  of 
services  [Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public 
Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section  14,  Quality 
tssurance  and  Utilization  Review,  Attachment  IV]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


I  10 


ILL.  QA  Integration  into  Operations 


Medicare 

Regulation:  Under  general  authority,  QA  integra- 
tion into  other  appropriate  operations  can  be 
addressed  under  42  CFR  417.412  (a),  which  states 
that,  the  HMO  or  CMP  must  demonstrate  that  it 
has  sufficient  administrative  capability  to  carry 
out  the  requirements  of  the  contract- 
Policy:  The  QA  committee  or  its  designee  reviews 
sources  of  data  on  performance  and  patient  results, 
such  as:  enrollee  complaints;  health  professional, 
provider,  and  staff  feedback;  member  survey  results; 
clinical  and  non-clinical  study  results;  referrals 
through  the  utilization  review  system;  and  potential 
problem  areas  identified  through  the  information 
system  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989, 
4201.3.B]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Regulation:  Each  HMO  must  have  administrative 
and  managerial  arrangements  satisfactory  to  HCFA, 
as  demonstrated  by  at  least  the  following:...  (2) 
Personnel  and  systems  sufficient  for  the  HMO  to 
organize,  plan,  control  and  evaluate  the  financial, 
marketing,  health  services,  quality  assurance 
program,  administrative  and  management  aspects 
of  the  HMO  [42  CFR  417.124  (a)]. 

Policy:  The  QA  committee  or  its  designee  reviews 
sources  of  data  on  performance  and  patient  results, 
such  as:  enrollee  complaints;  health  professional, 
provider,  and  staff  feedback;  member  survey  results; 


clinical  and  non-clinical  study  results;  referrals 
through  the  utilization  review  system;  and  potential 
problem  areas  identified  through  the  information 
system  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989, 
4201.3.B]. 

Medicaid 

Guidelines:  QA  information  is  used  in  recreden- 
tialing,  recontracting  and/or  annual  performance 
evaluations;  activities  are  coordinated  with  other 
performance  monitoring  activities,  including  uti- 
lization management,  risk  management,  and  resolu- 
tion and  monitoring  of  member  complaints  and 
grievances;  and  there  is  a  linkage  between  QA  and 
other  management  functions  of  the  plan,  such  as 
network  changes,  benefits  redesign,  medical  man- 
agement systems,  practice  feedback,  patient  educa- 
tion and  member  services  [A  Health  Care  Quality 
Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care: 
A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care 
Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard 
XVI,  pp.  32-33]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Program  Expectation:  QM  findings  are  used  to 
modify  policies/procedures  in  order  to  effect  quality 
improvement.  [PCER  Clinical  Protocol  IV.C.6.] 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


111 


ILL.  QA  Integration  into  Operations  (continued) 


NAIC 

Although  the  Quality  Assessment  and  Improve- 
ment Model  Act  does  not  contain  explicit  language 
addressing  the  integration  of  quality  activities  into 
operations,  it  is  implicit,  in  the  model  that  the  health 
carrier  is  to  coordinate  its  quality  programs  with 
other  management  and  administrative  functions 
as  appropriate. 

A  health  carrier  must  coordinate  its  utilization 
re\  iew  program  w  ith  other  medical  management 
activity  conducted  hy  the  carrier,  such  as  quality 
assurance,  credentialing,  provider  contracting, 
data  reporting,  grievance  procedures,  processes  for 
assessing  member  satisfaction,  and  risk  manage- 
ment. [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Utilization  Review 
Model  Act,  6/4/96,  Section  8C] 

JCAHO 

Leaders  and  other  individuals  assigned  clinical  or 
managerial  responsibility  participate  in  cross-com- 
ponent activities  to  improve  network  performance 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Leadership,  LD.4.3]. 

The  leaders  adopt  and  effectively  use  an 
approach  to  performance  improvement  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Leadership,  LD.5.2]. 

The  network  has  a  planned,  systematic, 
nctworkwide  approach  to  designing  processes 
and  measuring,  assessing,  and  improving  its 
performance  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI.  1] . 

The  performance-improvement  process  is 
collaborative  and  involves  all  appropriate  network 
and  component  personnel,  clinical  stall",  and 
licensed  independent  practitioners  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.  1.1]. 


The  network  continuously  measures  the  use 
of  clinical  resources  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving 
Network  Performance,  PI. 5.2. 7]. 

The  network,  its  components,  and  practitioner 
sites  compare  performance  data  internally  over 
time  and  to  external  sources  of  information  about 
similar  processes  and  outcomes  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Improving  Network  Performance,  PI.4.2]. 

The  network  systematically  communicates 
performance  information  to  each  component  and 
practitioner  site  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI.4.5]. 

When  improvement  activities  lead  to  a 
determination  that  there  are  issues  related  to  an 
individual's  performance,  appropriate  action  is 
taken  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI.5. 1  ] . 

NCQA 

The  Findings,  conclusions,  recommendations,  and 
actions  taken,  and  results  of  the  actions  taken  as  a 
result  of  QI  activity,  are  documented  and  reported 
to  appropriate  individuals  within  the  organization. 
The  QI  information  is  used  in  recredentialing, 
recontracting,  and/or  annual  performance  evalua- 
tions [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality 
Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.3.1]. 

QI  activities  are  coordinated  with  other  per- 
formance monitoring  activities,  including  utilization 
management,  risk  management,  and  resolution  and 
monitoring  of  member  complaints  and  grievances 
[NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality 
Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.3.2]. 


Blue  Cross  and  nine  Shield  Association 


112 


ILL.  QA  Integration  into  Operations  (continued) 


NCQA 

There  is  evidence  of  linkages  between  QI  and 
other  functions,  such  as  network  changes,  benefits 
redesign,  medical  management  systems,  practice 
feedback  to  providers,  and  patient  education  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality  Management 
and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.5.3]. 

URAC 

The  Network  shall  establish  and  implement 
formal  procedures  to  coordinate  and  integrate  its 
various  administrative  and  medical  management 
operations,  including  utilization  management, 
quality  management,  and  credentialing  programs 
{National  Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April 
1996,  NM  15.0). 

The  Network  shall  employ,  contract  with, 
or  appoint  a  Medical  Director  (or  Clinical  Director 
in  some  specialty  networks)  who  has  responsibility 
for  clinical  oversight  of  the  utilization  management, 
credentialing,  quality  management,  and  other 
clinical  functions. 

Minnesota 


There  are  written  procedures  for  coordinating 
quality  improvement  activities  with  other  MCP 
functions  including  but  not  limited  to  changes 
in  provider  network;  changes  in  benefit  package; 
changes  in  preauthorization  procedures;  provision 
of  feedback  to  physicians;  changes  in  patient  educa- 
tion efforts;  and  changes  in  the  member  services 
department  [Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter 
5101:3-26-071  (H)(8))]. 

Pennsylvania 

No  standard  specified. 
See  NCQA  Standards  also. 


No  standard  specified. 
Ohio 

All  plans:  The  quality  assurance  program 
encompasses  all  aspects  of  the  plan's  health 
service  delivery  functions  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  Documentation  and  reporting  of  the 
findings,  conclusions,  recommendations,  actions 
taken  and  results  of  the  quality  assurance  activity 
are  made  to  appropriate  plan  staff  and  must  be 
included  in  recredentialling,  recontracting  and 
performance  evaluations.  [Ohio  Administrative 
Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-071  (H)(7)]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


115 


II.M.  Complaint  Resolution 


Medicare 

Statute:  There  are  meaningful  procedures  for 
hearing  and  resolving  member  grievances  [Section 
1876(c)(5)(  A)  of  the  Social  Security  Act]. 

The  (external)  review  organization  conducts 
an  appropriate  review  of  all  written  complaints 
about  the  quality  of  services  not  meeting  profession- 
ally recognized  standards  of  health  care,  if  the 
complaint  is  filed  with  the  review  organization  by 
an  individual  entitled  to  benefits  for  such  services 
[Section  1154(a)(14)  of  the  Social  Security  Act]. 

Regulation:  The  plan  maintains  written  rules  that 
deal  with  grievances  and  appeals  procedures 
[42  CFR  417.436(a)(7)]. 

The  plan  provides  members  at  least  annually, 
with  a  copy  of  its  written  grievance  and  appeals 
procedures  [42  CFR  417.436(b)]. 

The  plan  provides  to  its  enrollees  the  steps  to 
follow  in  completing  the  appeals  process  and  the 
time  limits  imposed  on  each  step  of  the  procedures 
[42  CFR  417.600]. 

An  appeals  process  is  available  to  Medicare 
beneficiaries  which  includes  a  five-part  process: 

Initial  determination:  decisions  made  by  the  HMO 
or  CMP  relating  to: 

•  reimbursement  for  emergency  or  urgently 
needed  services; 

•  services  furnished  by  the  organization  that 
the  enrollee  believes  are  Medicare  covered 
and  should  have  been  furnished  and/or 
reimbursed;  and 

•  services  that  the  HMO  or  CMP  refuses  to 
provide  and/or  reimburse,  which  the  enrollee 
believes  Medicare  is  obligated  to  cover  and  which 
the  enrollee  has  not  received  elsewhere  [42  CFR 
417.606(a)]. 


Enrollees  must  be  informed  in  writing  of  the 
appeals  procedures  available  to  them  in  the  event 
that  they  are  dissatisfied  with  an  initial  determina- 
tion made  by  the  HMO  or  CMP  [42  CFR  417.604(c)]. 

Reconsideration:  Any  party  dissatisfied  with  the 
initial  determination  may  request  a  reconsideration 
in  writing  [42  CFR  417.614]. 

Generally,  the  plan  that  made  the  initial  deter- 
mination also  reconsiders  it  [42  CFR  417.620], 
except  that  the  reconsideration  must  be  made  by  a 
person  or  persons  who  were  not  involved  in  making 
the  initial  determination.  The  reconsideration  is 
based  on  a  review  of  the  initial  determination,  the 
evidence  and  findings  upon  which  it  was  based, 
and  any  other  evidence  submitted  by  the  parties 
[42  CFR  417.622]. 

Notice  of  the  reconsideration  determination 
must  be  given  the  requesting  party  stating  the  rea- 
sons for  the  reconsidered  determination.  A  recon- 
sideration determination  is  final  and  binding  unless 
a  request  for  a  hearing  is  filed  within  60  days 
(exceptions  apply)  [42  CFR  417.626  and  632]. 

Hearing  by  an  Administrative  Law  Judge  (ALJ)  in 
cases  where  the  amount  in  controversy  is  $100  or 
more  [42  CFR  417.630],  HCFA  designates  a  hearing 
officer  to  conduct  the  hearing  (the  hearing  officer 
need  not  be  an  ALJ)  [42  CFR  417.666],  which  is  open 
to  the  parties  and  to  the  public  [42  CFR  417.676(a)]. 

Appeals  Council  Review:  any  party  to  the  hearing 
may  request  an  Appeals  Council  Review  [42  CFR 
417.634]. 

Court  review:  The  party  or  the  HMO/CMP  may 
request  review  of  ALJ's  decision  or  review  of 
Appeals  Council  decision  if  the  amount  in  contro- 
versy is  $1000  or  more  [42  CFR  417.636]. 


Ill  in-  Cross  iirul  Itlnc  Shield  Association 


114 


II.M.  Complaint  Resolution  (continued) 


The  PRO  determines  whether  the  quality 
of  services  provided  by  an  HMO  or  CMP  meets 
professionally  recognized  standards  of  health  care, 
including  whether  appropriate  health  care  services 
have  not  been  provided  or  have  been  provided  in 
inappropriate  settings  [42  CFR  466.72(a)(1)]. 

Policy:  The  grievance  and  appeals  procedures  are 
mutually  exclusive.  Complaints  concerning  the 
quality  of  services  a  member  received  are  treated 
as  a  grievance  except  when  associated  with  a  denial 
of  service.  Complaints  concerning  timely  receipt 
of  services  are  treated  as  grievances  except  when 
an  enrollee  complains  that  he  or  she  had  to  use 
out-of-plan  services  because  of  excessive  waiting 
times  [Medicare  Health  Maintenance  Organization/ 
Competitive  Medical  Plan  Manual,  Transmittal 
No.  6,  March  1991,  2400,  2400.1  and  2400.2]. 

Generally,  the  following  items  are  not  subject 
to  the  appeals  procedures  but  are  processed  under 
the  grievance  procedures  of  the  organization: 
determinations  of  items  or  services  included  in 
an  optional  supplemental  plan;  complaints  about 
waiting  times,  physician  demeanor  and  behavior, 
adequacy  of  facilities;  involuntary  disenrollment 
issues;  disputes  about  items  or  services  that  have 
been  furnished  for  which  the  enrollee  has  no 
further  liability  for  payment  [Medicare  Health  Main- 
tenance Organization/Competitive  Medical  Plan 
Manual,  Transmittal  No.  6,  March  1991,  2400.4]. 

All  members  are  provided  a  written  explana- 
tion of  grievance  procedures  upon  enrollment, 
involuntary  disenrollment,  and  on  request  which 
includes  at  least  the  following  information: 

•  how  to  file  a  grievance; 

•  differences  between  the  appeals  and  grievance 
procedures; 

•  time  limits  for  filing  a  grievance;  and 

•  time  limits  for  each  step  in  the  procedures 
[Medicare  Health  Maintenance  Organization/ 
Competitive  Medical  Plan  Manual,  Transmittal 
No.  6,  March  1991,  2412]. 


The  agreement  with  the  PRO  provides  for 
review  by  the  PRO  of  all  written  complaints  filed 
by  Medicare  beneficiaries  or  their  representatives 
about  the  quality  of  services  [Medicare  Health  Main- 
tenance Organization/Competitive  Medical  Plan 
Manual,  Part  3,  Chapter  1,  Contract  Requirements, 
3001.1(A)]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Statute:  There  are  meaningful  procedures  for  hear- 
ing and  resolving  member  grievances  [Title  XIII  of 
the  Public  Health  Service  Act,  Section  1301(c)(5)]. 

Regulation:  The  plan  has  and  uses  meaningful 
procedures  for  hearing  and  resolving  enrollee  griev- 
ances which  ensure  that  grievances  and  complaints 
are  transmitted  in  a  timely  manner  to  appropriate 
decision-makers  who  have  the  authority  to  take 
corrective  action;  appropriate  and  prompt  action 
is  taken;  and  notification  is  given  to  all  concerned 
parties  as  to  the  results  of  any  investigation  [42 
CFR  417.124(g)]. 

Medicaid 

Regulation:  There  are  written  internal  grievance 
procedures  that  provide  for  prompt  resolution  and 
assure  the  participation  of  individuals  with  author- 
ity to  require  corrective  action  [42  CFR  434.32]. 

The  state  has  procedures  to  ensure  the  proper 
implementation  of  a  plan's  grievance  procedure 
[42  CFR  434.63]. 

1115  Waiver  Terms  and  Conditions:  New  Waivers 
require  the  collection  and  review  of  quarterly 
reports  on  grievances  received  by  each  managed 
care  organization.  States  are  required  to  report 
grievances  to  HCFA  in  their  quarterly  reports. 

Guidelines:  The  plan  has  a  system  for  resolving 
members'  complaints  and  formal  grievances  that 
includes: 

•  procedures  for  registering  and  responding  to 
complaints  and  grievances  in  a  timely  fashion 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


115 


II4VI.  Complaint  Resolution  (continued) 


•  documentation  of  the  substance  of  complaints 
and  actions  taken 

•  procedures  to  ensure  a  resolution  of  a  complaint 
or  grievance 

•  aggregation  and  analysis  of  complaint  and 
grievance  data  and  use  of  the  data  for  quality 
improvement 

•  an  appeals  process  [A  Health  Care  Quality 
Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed 
Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau, 
Health  Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6, 
1993,  Standard  X.E,  pp.  25-26]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Program  Expectation:  Patient  complaints  are 
reviewed  and  appropriate  corrective  action  taken, 
with  respect  to  individual  complaints  and  with 
respect  to  patterns  of  complaints.  There  must  be 
protocol  to  handle  patient  complaints  in  languages 
other  than  English  whenever  appropriate.  [PCER 
Clinical  Protocol  IV.C.3.  &  IV.C.4.] 

NAIC 

The  HMO  Model  Act  requires  a  health  maintenance 
organization  to  establish  and  maintain  a  grievance 
procedure  that  has  been  approved  by  the  insurance 
commissioner,  in  consultation  with  the  commis- 
sioner of  public  health,  and  to  describe  this  proce- 
dure in  its  licensure  application.  [NAIC,  Health 
Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act,  Model  Regu- 
lation Service  -  July  1995,  Sections  11  and  5.]  The 
requirements  for  an  HMO's  grievance  procedure  are 
specified  in  more  detail  in  the  NAIC's  HMO  model 
regulation.  [NAIC,  Model  Regulation  to  Implement 
Rules  Regarding  Contracts  and  Services  of  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations,  Model  Regulation 
Sen  ice  -  Jan.  1991,  Section  9D.] 

All  health  carriers  must  maintain  a  grievance 
register  that  documents  all  grievances  received 


during  a  calendar  year.  The  act  specifies  the  mini- 
mum information  for  each  grievance  that  must  be 
recorded  in  the  register.  A  health  carrier  must  also 
submit  an  annual  report  to  the  commissioner  detail- 
ing, for  each  type  of  health  benefit  plan  offered  by 
the  health  carrier,  the  total  number  of  grievances 
received,  their  resolution,  and  other  information. 
[NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Health  Carrier  Grievance 
Procedure  Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Section  5.] 

A  health  carrier  must  use  written  procedures 
for  receiving  and  resolving  grievances  from  covered 
persons,  except  that  a  grievance  need  not  be  in 
u  riting  in  [be  case  of  an  expedited  review.  \  copj 
of  the  grievance  procedures,  including  all  forms 
used  to  process  a  grievance,  must  be  filed  with  the 
commissioner.  A  description  of  the  health  carrier's 
grievance  procedure  must  also  be  contained  in  or 
attached  to  the  policy  or  other  evidence  of  coverage 
provided  to  covered  persons.  The  grievance  proce- 
dure documents  must  contain  a  statement  of  the 
covered  person's  right  to  contact  the  commissioner's 
office  for  assistance  at  any  time.  [NAIC,  Draft  Stan- 
dards, Health  Carrier  Grievance  Procedure  Model 
Act,  6/2/96,  Section  6.] 

All  health  carriers  must  provide  a  first  level 
grievance  review.  There  are  separate  provisions 
for  grievances  involving  an  adverse  determination 
pursuant  to  the  utilization  review  process  and  griev- 
ances involving  all  other  matters.  A  covered  person 
does  not  have  the  right  to  attend  or  have  a  represen- 
tative in  attendance  at  the  first  level  grievance 
review,  but  may  submit  written  material.  Within 
twenty  (20)  working  days  of  receiving  a  grievance, 
a  health  carrier  must  issue  a  written  decision  con- 
taining: the  names,  titles,  and  qualifying  credentials 
of  the  reviewers  who  participated  in  the  first  level 
grievance  review  process;  a  statement  of  the  review- 
ers' understanding  of  the  covered  person's  griev- 
ance; the  reviewers'  decision  in  clear  terms  and 
the  contract  basis  or  medical  rationale  in  sufficient 
detail  for  the  covered  person  to  respond  further 
to  the  carrier's  position;  a  reference  to  the  evidence 


Illuc  Cross  iind  Illue  Shield  Association 


116 


II.M.  Complaint  Resolution  (continued) 


or  documentation  used  as  the  basis  for  the  decision; 
in  cases  involving  an  adverse  determination,  the 
instructions  for  requesting  a  written  statement  of 
the  clinical  rationale,  including  the  clinical  review 
criteria  used  to  make  the  decision;  if  applicable, 
a  description  of  the  process  to  obtain  a  second  level 
grievance  review  and  the  written  procedures 
governing  a  second  level  review,  including  the 
timeframes;  and  notice  of  the  covered  person's  right 
to  contact  the  commissioner's  office,  including  the 
phone  number  and  address  of  the  commissioner's 
office.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Health  Carrier 
Grievance  Procedure  Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Section  7.] 

A  health  carrier  that  offers  managed  care 
plans  must  establish  a  second  level  grievance 
process  to  provide  a  covered  person  dissatisfied 
with  the  outcome  of  the  first  level  review  the  option 
of  a  second  review,  at  which  the  covered  person 
has  the  right  to  appear  in  person  before  authorized 
representatives  of  the  health  carrier.  A  carrier  must 
ensure  that  a  majority  of  the  persons  reviewing  a 
second  level  grievance  involving  an  adverse  deter- 
mination are  health  care  professionals  who  have 
appropriate  expertise.  In  cases  where  there  has 
been  a  denial  of  service,  the  reviewing  health  care 
professional  may  not  be  a  provider  in  the  covered 
person's  health  benefit  plan  and  may  not  have  a 
financial  interest  in  the  outcome  of  the  review.  This 
requirement  of  an  independent  reviewer  does  not 
apply,  however,  when  such  a  reviewer  is  not  rea- 
sonably available.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Health 
Carrier  Grievance  Procedure  Model  Act,  6/2/96, 
Sections  8A  and  8B.] 

The  health  carrier  must  schedule  and  hold 
the  review  hearing  within  forty-five  (45)  days  of 
receiving  a  covered  person's  request  for  a  second 
level  review.  The  meeting  must  be  held  at  a  location 
reasonably  accessible  to  the  covered  person,  except 
that  a  health  carrier  may  offer  the  covered  person 
the  opportunity  to  communicate  with  the  panel 
via  conference  call,  video  conferencing,  or  other 
appropriate  technology  in  cases  where  a  face-to-face 
meeting  is  not  practical  for  geographic  reasons. 


The  health  carrier  must  pay  for  the  use  of  such 
technology.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Health  Carrier 
Grievance  Procedure  Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Section  8C] 

The  carrier  must  provide  all  relevant 
information  that  is  not  confidential  or  privileged  to 
a  covered  person  upon  request  to  assist  the  covered 
person  in  preparing  for  the  second  level  review.  In 
addition  a  covered  person  has  the  right  to  attend 
the  second  level  review,  present  his  case,  submit 
supporting  material,  ask  questions  of  any  represen- 
tative of  the  health  carrier,  and  be  assisted  or  repre- 
sented by  a  person  of  his  choice.  [NAIC,  Draft 
Standards,  Health  Carrier  Grievance  Procedure 
Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Section  8C] 

The  health  carrier  must  issue  a  written 
decision  within  five  (5)  working  days  of  completing 
the  review  meeting.  The  decision  must  contain: 
the  names  and  titles  of  the  members  of  the  review 
panel;  a  statement  of  the  review  panel's  understand- 
ing of  the  nature  of  the  grievance  and  all  pertinent 
facts;  the  rationale  for  the  panel's  decision;  refer- 
ence to  the  evidence  or  documentation  considered 
by  the  panel;  in  cases  involving  an  adverse  determi- 
nation, the  instructions  for  requesting  a  written 
statement  of  the  clinical  rationale,  including  the 
clinical  review  criteria  used  to  make  the  determina- 
tion; and  notice  of  the  covered  person's  right  to 
contact  the  insurance  commissioner's  office.  [NAIC, 
Draft  Standards,  Health  Carrier  Grievance  Proce- 
dure Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Section  8C(7).] 

A  health  carrier  that  conducts  utilization 
review  must  have  written  procedures  for  making 
utilization  review  decisions.  It  must  comply  with 
the  timeframes  set  forth  in  the  utilization  review 
model  act  for  initial  determinations,  concurrent 
review  determinations,  and  retrospective  review 
determinations.  Different  requirements  are  estab- 
lished for  each  of  these  categories.  Within  each 
category,  there  are  also  slightly  different  require- 
ments depending  on  whether  the  health  carrier 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


117 


II.M.  Complaint  Resolution  (continued) 


approves  ("certifies")  or  disapproves  the  service. 
[NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Utilization  Review  Model 
Act,  6/4/96,  Section  9.]  The  Utilization  Review  Model 
also  establishes  timeframes  and  procedures  for  both 
standard  and  expedited  appeals  of  adverse  determi- 
nations, and  these  are  identical  to  the  provisions  in 
the  Health  Carrier  Grievance  Procedure  Model  Act. 
[NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Utilization  Review  Model 
Act,  6/4/96,  Section  11.] 

A  health  carrier,  when  conducting  utilization 
review  or  making  a  benefit  determination  for  emer- 
gency services,  must  cover  emergency  services 
necessary  to  screen  and  stabilize  a  covered  person 
and  may  not  require  prior  authorization  of  such 
services  if  a  prudent  lay  person  acting  reasonably 
would  have  believed  that  an  emergency  medical 
condition  existed.  With  respect  to  care  obtained 
from  a  noncontracting  provider  within  the  service 
area  of  a  managed  care  plan,  a  health  carrier  must 
cover  emergency  services  necessary  to  screen  and 
stabilize  a  covered  person  and  may  not  require  prior 
authorization  of  the  services  if  a  prudent  layperson 
would  have  reasonably  believed  that  use  of  a  con- 
tracting provider  would  result  in  a  delay  that  would 
worsen  the  emergency,  or  if  a  provision  of  federal, 
state  or  local  law  requires  the  use  of  a  specific 
provider.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Utilization 
Review  Model  Act,  6/4/96,  Section  12A.] 

JCAHO 

The  network  provides  for  member  involvement 
in  resolving  disagreements  in  care  or  treatment 
decisions  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities, 
and  Ethics,  RI.2.2]. 

The  network  provides  for  the  receipt  and 
resolution  of  complaints  and  grievances  from 
members  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities, 
and  Ethics,  RI.4]. 


NCQA 

There  is  a  timely  and  organized  system  for 
resolving  members'  complaints  that  includes: 

•  procedures  for  registering  and  responding  to 
complaints  and  grievances  in  a  timely  fashion; 

•  documentation  of  the  substance  of  complaints, 
grievances  and  actions  taken; 

•  procedures  to  ensure  a  resolution  of  the 
complaint  or  grievance; 

•  aggregation  and  analysis  of  complaint  and 
grievance  data  and  use  of  the  data  for  QI; 

•  an  appeals  process  for  grievances  that  includes 
a  member's  right  to  a  review  by  a  grievance 
panel;  a  right  to  a  second  review  with  different 
individuals;  at  least  one  of  the  levels  of  review 
wherein  the  member  may  appear  before  the 
panel;  and  expedited  procedure  for  emergency 
cases  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Mem- 
bers' Rights  and  Responsibilities,  1996,  RR  4.1]. 

Notification  of  denial  includes  appeal  process 
information  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Utilization  Management,  1996,  UM  6.0]. 

URAC 

Members  shall  have  the  right  to  file  complaints  and 
grievances  when  dissatisfied  with  the  care  and 
treatment  received  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  MP  1.6). 

The  Network  shall  establish  and  maintain  a 
written  member  complaint,  grievance,  and  appeals 
process  that  includes: 

•  a  mechanism  to  document,  investigate,  and 
address  all  members'  complaints; 

•  the  maintenance  of  complaint  records  in  an 
accessible  and  secure  location; 

•  a  procedure  for  dealing  with  formal  patient  griev- 
ances that  includes  at  least  two  levels  of  review; 

•  a  periodic  report  to  Network  management  that 
summarizes  complaints,  grievances,  and  appeals 
(National  Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April 
1996,  MP  4.0  to  MP  4.3). 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


118 


II.M.  Complaint  Resolution  (continued) 


The  Network  shall  maintain  grievance  and 
appeal  records  for  at  least  two  years  {National  Net- 
work Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  MP  6.0). 

The  patient  or  enrollee  has  the  right  to  appeal 
determinations  not  to  certify  in  the  UM  process, 
and  may  also  request  that  the  facility  rendering 
service  initiate  an  appeal  on  their  behalf  {National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996, 
UM  30.2  and  UM  30.4). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  A  plan's  internal  complaint  system  is  con- 
sidered reasonable  and  acceptable  if  the  following 
procedures  are  followed: 

•  The  complainant  promptly  receives  a  complaint 
form  from  the  plan  when  wishing  to  register  a 
complaint. 

•  The  plan  provides  for  informal  discussion  or 
consultations  to  resolve  or  recommend  the 
resolution  of  the  complaint. 

•  The  plan  notifies  the  complainant  within  30 
days  after  receiving  the  written  complaint  of  its 
decision  and  the  reasons  for  it.  Where  an  adverse 
decision  is  rendered,  the  complainant  is  notified 
of  the  right  to  appeal. 

•  If  the  complainant  appeals,  the  plan  offers  an 
option  of  a  hearing  or  a  written  reconsideration, 
with  the  person  or  persons  not  solely  the  same 
person  who  made  the  initial  decision. 

•  The  plan  provides  the  opportunity  for  alternative 
dispute  resolution  of  any  complaint  which  is 
unresolved  by  the  above  mechanisms. 

•  If  the  complaint  involves  a  dispute  about  an 
immediately  and  urgently  needed  service,  the 
plan  uses  an  expedited  dispute  resolution  process 
appropriate  to  the  particular  situation  with  notifi- 
cation to  the  Commissioner  of  Health  within 
(within  2  business  days  from  the  date  the 
complaint  was  registered). 

•  A  complainant  may  at  any  time  submit  a 
complaint  to  the  Commissioner  of  Health,  who 
may  either  independently  investigate  the  com- 


plaint or  refer  it  to  the  plan  for  further  review. 
[Chapter  4685,  Department  of  Health,  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations,  4685.1700,  Subp.l 
and  Subp.2] 

The  plan  maintains  a  record  of  each  written 
complaint  filed  with  it  for  5  years  [Minnesota 
Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health  Maintenance  Orga- 
nizations, 62D.11,  Subp.2]. 

When  a  complaint  involves  a  plan's  coverage 
of  service,  the  Department  of  Health  may  review 
the  complaint  and  any  information  necessary  to 
make  a  determination  and  order  the  appropriate 
remedy  [Minnesota  Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations,  62D.11,  Subp.l  a]. 

Data  on  complaints  related  to  quality  of  care 
are  reported  to  the  appointed  quality  assurance 
entity  at  least  quarterly  [Chapter  4685,  Department 
of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1110,  Subp.9]. 

Medicaid:  There  are  written  procedures  for 
reviewing  enrollee  complaints  which  include: 

•  a  plan  for  notifying  enrollees  how  to  file  a 
complaint  or  grievance; 

•  an  informal  complaint  system  with  a  resolution 
required  in  10  days; 

•  a  formal  grievance  system  in  which  determina- 
tion is  made  within  30  calendar  days  and  which 
contains  the  following  elements:  (1)  person  with 
authority  to  resolve  the  case  is  designated  to  hear 
the  complaint;  (2)  the  enrollee  has  the  right  to 
be  represented  at  the  hearing  by  a  representative 
of  his  or  her  choice,  including  legal  counsel; 

(3)  the  enrollee  and  the  plan  may  call  witnesses 
to  provide  relevant  testimony;  (4)  a  determina- 
tion is  made  and  written  notice  given  within 
30  days  with  indication  given  of  the  right  to 
appeal  to  the  state;  and  (5)  the  plan  notifies  the 
ombudsperson  within  3  working  days  after 
any  written  complaint  is  filed  by  an  enrollee 
[Minnesota  Department  of  Human  Services 
Rules,  9500.1463  Subp.5]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


119 


II. M.  Complaint  Resolution  (continued) 


Complaints  related  to  the  appropriateness, 
quality  or  necessity  of  medical  services  are  reviewed 
by  the  plan  quality  assurance  coordinator  or  med- 
ical director  for  quality  assurance  implications 
[Request  for  Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/General 
Assistance  Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota 
Senior  Health  Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan 
Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 

The  plan  maintains  a  record  of  all  written 
complaints  from  enrollees,  actions  taken  in 
response  to  complaints  and  the  final  disposition  of 
the  complaints  and  reports  this  information  to  the 
state  on  a  semiannual  basis  [Minnesota  Department 
of  Human  Services  Rules,  9500.1463  Subp.8]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  The  plan  has  procedures  for  responding 
to  all  written  complaints  which  inform  the  enrollee 
of  all  rights  to  appeal  a  decision  to  a  Peer  Review 
Organization  or  a  Peer  Review  Committee  within 
the  plan.  Copies  of  these  complaints  and  responses 
are  kept  for  3  years  and  made  available  to  the 
Department  of  Insurance  and  Health  [Ohio  Revised 
Code,  1742.14(B)]. 

Enrollees  are  informed  annually  about  the 
complaint  procedure  [Ohio  Revised  Code, 
1742.20(A)]. 

•  The  plan  has  a  grievance  resolution  process 
which  addresses  all  potential  areas  of  enrollee 
dissatisfaction  and  includes  the  following 
elements: 

•  at  least  one  level  of  appeal; 

•  reasonable  time  frames  for  each  step  in  the 
process,  not  to  exceed  60  days,  to  ensure  prompt 
and  thorough  consideration; 

•  all  grievances,  including  verbal  grievances, 
are  recorded  in  writing; 

•  confidentiality  of  the  grievance; 

•  an  enrollee  has  up  to  one  year  to  register  a 
grievance; 


•  the  appointment  of  a  grievance  officer  to  facilitate 
and  coordinate  the  enrollee's  use  of  the  grievance 
process; 

•  participation  of  individuals  appropriate  to  the 
nature  of  the  complaint; 

•  grievances  related  to  clinical  policies  or  practices 
are  forwarded  to  the  medical  director  for  prompt 
review; 

•  establishment  of  a  grievance  committee  with 
authority  to  require  corrective  action; 

•  annual  assessments  of  the  grievance  process;  and 

•  minutes  of  grievance  committee  meetings  are 
available  to  the  state  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  MCPs  must  develop  and  implement 
written  policies  which  ensure  the  provision  of 
specified  enrollee  rights  and  have  written  grievance 
procedures  which  address  both  medical  and  non- 
medical areas  of  enrollee  dissatisfaction.  All  MCP 
grievance  procedures  and  any  changes  thereto 
must  be  prior  approved  by  ODHS  in  writing.  [Ohio 
Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-083  (A)(B)]. 

A  1-800  Ohio  Department  of  Human  Services 
consumer  hotline  went  into  operation  on  July  1, 
1996.  The  hotline  staff  receives  and/or  assists  in 
resolving  complaints  and  facilitates  the  provision 
of  information  for  Medicaid  HMO  enrollees. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  A  plan  establishes  and  maintains  a  griev- 
ance resolution  system  whereby  the  complaints  of 
enrollees  are  acted  upon  promptly  and  satisfactorily 
[State  of  Pennsylvania,  Health  Maintenance  Organi- 
zation Act,  Title  40,  Section  1560(e)]. 

The  grievance  procedure  includes  the  follow- 
ing elements: 

•  There  is  an  initial  level  of  investigation  and 
review  of  any  grievance,  conducted  by  a  commit- 
tee consisting  of  one  or  more  individuals  who 
may  be  employees  of  the  plan,  wherein  the 
enrollee  presents  written  data  pertinent  to  the 
grievance. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


120 


II.M.  Complaint  Resolution  (continued) 


•  An  enrollee  has  the  right  to  appeal  a  decision  of 
the  initial  review  committee  to  a  second  level 
of  review  conducted  by  a  committee  established 
by  the  Board  of  Directors  that  includes  at  least 
one-third  members  who  are  subscribers  to  the 
plan. 

•  The  second  level  of  review  decision  is  binding 
unless  the  enrollee  appeals  to  the  Secretary  of 
the  Health  Department; 

•  The  plan  specifies  reasonable  time  limits  for 
disposition  of  grievances  at  each  level. 

•  A  description  of  the  grievance  system  is  distrib- 
uted to  enrollees  at  enrollment  and  annually 
thereafter. 

•  Enrollees  have  a  right  to  have  a  staff  member 
of  the  plan  appointed  to  assist  them. 

•  The  enrollee  has  the  right  to  appeal  a  negative 
decision  to  the  Department  of  Health,  which, 
upon  receipt  of  the  request  and  a  review  of  all 
relevant  information  (including  independent 
opinions  from  medical  consultants  as  necessary) 
makes  a  final  determination. 

•  The  plan  maintains  records  of  all  grievances 
in  its  annual  report  to  the  state  [28  Pa.  Code, 
Section  9.73]. 

Medicaid:  Grievance  procedures  must,  at  a 
minimum: 

•  define  a  grievance; 

•  delineate  between  a  complaint  and  grievance; 

•  include  the  time  frames  to  ensure  prompt  review 
and  processing  of  complaints  and  grievances; 

•  be  the  same  for  all  enrollees; 

•  ensure  that  enrollees  have  access  to  all  documen- 
tation pertaining  to  resolution  of  a  grievance;  and 

•  ensure  that  staff  appropriately  report  and  handle 
enrollee  complaints  and  grievances  [Pennsylva- 
nia Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating 
Agreement,  Section  7,  Recipient  Complaint  and 
Grievance  System,  7.2]. 


The  plan  has  an  independent  complaint  and 
grievance  committee  which  reviews  and  assesses 
the  appropriateness  of  the  plan's  identification  and 
resolution  of  complaints  and  grievances  [Pennsylva- 
nia Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating 
Agreement,  Section  7,  Recipient  Complaint  and 
Grievance  System,  7.5]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


121 


ILN.  Rights  and  Responsibilities -Plan 


Medicare 

Statute:  The  plan  provides  each  enrollee  with  an 
explanation  of: 

•  right  to  benefits  from  the  organization; 

•  any  restrictions  on  payments  for  services 
outside  of  the  organization 

•  out-of-area  coverage; 

•  coverage  for  emergency  and  urgent  care;  and 

•  appeal  rights  of  enrollees  [Section  1876(c)(5)(E) 
of  the  Social  Security  Act]. 

The  plan  maintains  written  policies  and 
procedures  respecting  advance  directives  [42  U.S.C., 
Section  1876(c)(8)]. 

Regulation:  The  plan  furnishes  a  cop\  of  the  rules 
to  each  Medicare  enrollee  at  the  time  of  enrollment 
and  at  least  annually  thereafter  with  respect  to: 

•  benefits; 

•  how  and  where  to  obtain  services  ; 

•  restrictions  on  coverage; 

•  obligations  of  the  plan  to  assume  financial 
responsibility  and  provide  reasonable  reim- 
bursement for  emergency  services  and  urgently 
needed  services  as  required; 

•  services,  other  than  emergency  or  urgently 
needed  services,  that  the  plan  chooses  to  provide 
outside  of  the  HMO  or  CMP; 

•  premium  information; 

•  grievance  and  appeals  procedures; 

•  disenrollment  rights; 

•  obligation  of  the  enrollee  to  notify  plan  if 
leaving  the  service  area  for  more  than  90  days; 

•  expiration  date  of  the  contract; 

•  advance  directives  and 

•  any  other  matters  that  HCFA  may  prescribe. 
[42  CFR  417.436(a)  and  (b)]. 


Policy:  Membership  rules  are  provided  at  the 
time  of  enrollment  and  annually  thereafter  and 
should  include: 

•  description  of  benefits; 

•  how  and  where  to  obtain  services; 

•  restrictions  on  coverage; 

•  plan's  obligation  to  assume  financial  responsibil- 
ity for  emergency  and  urgently  needed  services; 

•  services  provided  from  outside  sources; 

•  premium  information; 

•  internal  grievances  and  Medicare  appeals 
procedures; 

•  disenrollment  rights  and  procedures;  and 

•  expiration  date  of  contract; 

policies  regarding  coordination  of  benefits 
[Medicare  Health  Maintenance  Organization/ 
Competitive  Medical  Plan  Manual,  Transmittal 
No.  8,  January  1992,  2203(B)]. 

The  plan  provides  written  information  to 
all  adult  enrollees  at  the  time  of  enrollment  con- 
cerning their  rights  under  state  law  to  accept  or 
refuse  medical  or  surgical  treatment  and  to  execute 
and  formulate  advance  directives,  such  as  living 
wills  or  durable  powers  of  attorney  for  health  care 
[Medicare  HMO/CMP  Manual,  Part  3,  Chapter  1, 
Contract  Requirements,  3001. l.E]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Regulation:  The  plan  provides  instructions  to  its 
enrollees  on  procedures  to  be  followed  to  obtain 
medically  necessary  emergency  health  services  in 
and  out  of  the  service  area  [42  CFR  417.101(a)(3)] 
and  how  to  access  basic  health  services  [42  CFR 
417.101(e)(3)]. 


Illuc  Cross  and  lilnc  Shield  Association 


122 


I 

II.N.  Rights  and  Responsibilities-Plan  (continued) 


The  plan  provides  a  written  description, 
easily  understood  by  the  average  enrollee,  of  the 
following,  to  its  enrollees: 

•  benefits; 

•  coverage,  including  statement  on  eligibility  for 
benefits; 

•  procedures  for  obtaining  benefits  and  description 
of  the  circumstances  under  which  benefits  may 
be  denied 

•  rates; 

•  grievance  procedures; 

•  service  area; 

•  participating  providers;  and 

•  financial  information,  including  the  most  recent 
audited  information  [42  CFR  417.124(b)]. 

Medicaid 

Regulation:  Members  are  informed,  at  the  time  of 
enrollment,  of  their  rights  to  terminate  enrollment 
[42  CFR  434.27(c)]. 

The  plan  informs  and  distributes  written 
information  to  adult  individuals  concerning  policies 
on  advance  directives,  including  a  description  of 
applicable  state  laws  [42  CFR  434.28]. 

Guidelines:  Upon  enrollment,  members  are 
provided  with  a  written  statement  that  includes 
information  on: 

•  rights  and  responsibilities  of  members; 

•  benefits  and  services; 

•  provision  for  after-hours  and  emergency 
coverage; 

•  the  plan's  policy  on  referrals  for  specialty  care; 

•  charges  to  members,  if  applicable; 

•  procedures  for  notifying  members  of  termination 
or  change  in  benefits,  services  or  service 
delivery  sites; 

•  procedures  for  appealing  decisions; 

•  procedures  for  changing  practitioners; 

•  procedures  for  disenrollment;  and 


•  procedures  for  voicing  complaints  or  grievances 
[A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for 
Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States, 
Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Admin- 
istration, July  6,  1993,  Standard  X.D,  p.  25]. 

Standards  and  guidelines  used  in  the  quality 
assurance  program  are  included  in  provider  manu- 
als [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for 
Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medic- 
aid Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration, 
July  6,  1993,  Standard  II.C.5,  p.  16]. 

Member  information  is  written  in  prose  that 
is  readable  and  easily  understood  and  in  the 
languages  of  the  major  population  groups  served 
[A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for 
Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medic- 
aid Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration, 
July  6,  1993,  Standard  X.H,  p.  26]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Program  Expectation:  BPHC  funded  programs  are 
required  to  develop  written  documentation  incorpo- 
rated in  the  Principles  of  Practice  documents  which 
address  patient  rights  and  responsibilities  as  well  as 
the  scope  of  practice.  This  documentation  must  be 
displayed  for  the  public  and  be  made  available  for 
all  program  clients.  [PCER  Clinical  Protocol  III.A.2 
&  PCER  Administration  Protocol  VII.A.1...10] 

NAIC 

The  HMO  Model  Act  and  the  accompanying  regula- 
tion contain  detailed  provisions  specifying  the 
HMO's  obligations  to  notify  enrollees  about  covered 
services,  access  to  those  services,  use  of  out-of-plan 
providers,  instructions  for  receiving  emergency  care 
and  urgent  services,  and  other  information  affecting 
an  enrollee's  ability  to  make  informed  choices  about 
medical  care.  [NAIC,  Health  Maintenance  Organiza- 
tion Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July 
1995,  Sections  8  and  10;  NAIC,  Model  Regulation 
to  Implement  Rules  Regarding  Contracts  and  Ser- 
vices of  Health  Maintenance  Organizations,  Model 
Regulation  Service  -  Jan.  1991,  Sections  6,  8,  and  9.] 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


125 


I  I.N.  Rights  and  Responsibililies-Plan  (continued) 


A  health  carrier  must  specify  in  its  access 
plan  its  method  of  informing  covered  persons  of  the 
plan's  services  and  features,  including  but  not  lim- 
ited to,  the  plan's  grievance  procedures,  its  process 
for  choosing  and  changing  providers,  and  its  proce- 
dures for  providing  and  approving  emergency  and 
specialty  care.  The  access  plan  must  also  identify 
the  carrier's  process  for  enabling  covered  persons 
to  change  primary  care  professionals.  [NAIC,  Draft 
Standards,  Managed  Care  Plan  Network  Adequacy 
Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Sections  5B(6)  and  (8).]  When  a 
provider's  contract  is  terminated,  a  health  carrier 
must  also  make  a  good  faith  effort  to  provide  writ- 
ten notice  within  fifteen  (15)  working  days  to  all 
covered  persons  who  are  patients  of  the  provider  if 
the  provider  is  a  primary  care  professional,  and  to 
all  covered  persons  who  are  seen  on  a  regular  basis 
by  a  provider  who  is  not  a  primary  care  profes- 
sional. [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Managed  Care  Plan 
Network  Adequacy  Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Section  6L.] 

\  health  carrier  must  provide  in  its  certificate 
of  coverage  or  member  handbook  a  clear  and 
comprehensive  description  of  its  utilization  review 
procedures,  including  the  procedures  for  obtaining 
review  of  adverse  determinations,  and  a  statement 
of  the  rights  and  responsibilities  of  covered  persons 
with  respect  to  those  procedures.  [NAIC,  Draft 
Standards,  Utilization  Review  Model  Act,  6/4/96, 
Section  14  A.] 

A  health  carrier  must  provide  in  its  evidence 
of  coverage  a  description  of  its  grievance  proce- 
dures, including  a  statement  of  the  covered  person's 
right  to  contact  the  commissioner's  office  for  assis- 
tance at  any  time.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Health 
Carrier  Grievance  Procedure  Model  Act,  6/2/96, 
Section  6.] 

A  health  carrier  must  provide  a  description 
of  its  quality  assessment  and  improvement 
programs  and  a  statement  of  patient  rights  and 
responsibilities  with  respect  to  those  programs  in 
its  certificate  of  coverage  or  handbook.  It  must  also 
make  available  annually  to  providers  and  covered 
persons  the  Findings  from  its  quality  assessment 


and  improvement  programs  and  information  about 
its  progress  in  meeting  internal  goals  and  external 
standards.  [NAIC,  Qualify  Assessment  and  Improve- 
ment Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July 
1996,  Section  8A.] 

JCAHO 

The  network  requires  its  components  and  practi- 
tioner sites  to  involve  members  in  all  aspects  of 
treatment,  care,  and  service  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Respon- 
sibilities, and  Ethics,  RI.2]. 

The  network  provides  for  the  family  to  facili- 
tate care  or  treatment  decision  when  the  member 
is  unable  to  do  so  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities, 
and  Ethics,  RI.2.1]. 

The  network  provides  for  member  involve- 
ment in  resolving  disagreements  in  care  or  treat- 
ment decisions  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities, 
and  Ethics,  R  1.2.2]. 

The  network  provides  for  member  involve- 
ment in  decisions  to  withhold  resuscitative  services 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities,  and  Ethics, 
RI.2.3]. 

The  network  provides  for  member  involve- 
ment in  decisions  to  forgo  or  withdraw  life-sustain- 
ing treatment  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities, 
and  Ethics,  R1.2.4J. 

The  network  provides  for  member  involve- 
ment in  decisions  to  participate  in  investigational 
studies  or  clinical  trials  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights, 
Responsibilities,  and  Ethics,  RI.2. 5]. 

The  network  protects  the  confidentiality 
of  member  information  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights, 
Responsibilities,  and  Ethics,  RI.3]. 


Illiic  Cross  .mil  Kliie  Shield  Assoeinlinn 


lit 


I  I.N.  Rights  and  Responsibilities-Plan  (continued) 


The  network  communicates  with  members 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities,  and  Ethics, 
RI.3.1]. 

The  network  protects  member  privacy  and 
security  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities, 
and  Ethics,  RI.3.2]. 

The  network  provides  for  the  receipt  and  reso- 
lution of  complaints  and  grievances  from  members 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities,  and  Ethics,  RI.4]. 

Members  are  informed  of  their  responsibility 
for  providing  necessary  information  to  facilitate 
effective  treatment  and  for  cooperating  with  health 
care  providers  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities, 
and  Ethics,  RI.5]. 

Members  are  informed  about  any  potential 
consequences  of  not  complying  with  a  recom- 
mended treatment  [1996  Joint  Commission  stan- 
dards for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights, 
Responsibilities,  and  Ethics,  RI.5.1]. 

Members  are  informed  of  specific  health  care 
needs  that  require  follow-up  [1996  Joint  Commis- 
sion standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Contin- 
uum of  Care,  CC.6]. 

The  network  ensures  that  each  member 
receives  information  about  the  network  and  its 
services,  components,  clinical  staff,  and  licensed 
independent  practitioners  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Education 
and  Communication,  ED.l]. 

The  network  ensures  that  each  member 
receives  information  about  how  to  access  network 
services  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Education  and  Communi- 
cation, ED.1.1]. 

The  network  ensures  that  each  member 
receives  information  about  how  to  access  emer- 
gency services  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 


for  Health  Care  Networks,  Education  and  Communi- 
cation, ED.  1.2]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  the 
scope  of  health  care  services  included  in  the 
network's  benefit  package  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Education 
and  Communication,  ED. 1.3]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  charges, 
copayments,  and  fees  for  which  the  members  is 
responsible  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Education  and  Communica- 
tion, ED.  1.3.1]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  how 
to  obtain  services  when  outside  the  network's 
geographic  service  area  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Education 
and  Communication,  ED. 1.3.2]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  how 
to  obtain  services  not  covered  in  the  network's  ben- 
efit package  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Education  and  Communica- 
tion, ED.  1.3.3]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  special 
benefit  provisions,  such  as  copayments,  higher 
deductibles,  and  rejection  of  claims  that  may  apply 
to  services  obtained  outside  the  network  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Education  and  Communication,  ED.  1.3.4]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  changes 
in  network  benefits,  charges,  services,  components, 
clinical  staff,  or  licensed  independent  practitioners 
[Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works, Education  and  Communication,  ED. 1.3.5]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  how 
to  change  from  one  network  licensed  independent 
practitioner  or  clinical  staff  member  to  another 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Education  and  Communication,  ED. 1.3.6]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  how 
to  disenroll  from  the  network  [1996  Joint  Commis- 
sion standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Education 
and  Communication,  ED.  1.3.7]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


125 


II.N.  Rights  and  Responsibililies-Plan  (continued) 


Network  components  are  responsible  for 
providing  information  to  members  that  enable  them 
to  access  health  care  services  and/or  benefits, 
including  at  least  the  following: 

•  general  information  about  the  network,  services 
provided,  organizations,  and  practitioners; 

•  how  to  access  services  in  the  network; 

•  how  to  access  emergency  services; 

•  scope  of  services  included  in  the  benefit  package; 

•  charges,  copayments,  and  fees  for  which  member 
is  responsible; 

•  how  to  obtain  services  outside  the  network's 
geographical  service  area; 

•  how  to  obtain  services  not  covered  by  the  benefit 
package; 

•  changes  in  network  benefits,  charges,  services 
and/or  practitioners; 

•  how  to  change  providers  within  the  network;  and 

•  how  to  disenroll  from  the  network  [1994  Joint 
Commission  Standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Education  and  Communication,  ED  1-ED  1.4.8]. 

NCQA 

The  MCO  provides  a  copy  of  policies  on  members' 
rights  and  responsibilities  to  all  participating 
providers  and  directly  to  members  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Members'  Rights 
and  Responsibilities,  1996,  RR  3.0]. 

Members  are  provided  a  written  statement 
that  includes  information  on: 

•  the  organization's  policy  on  referrals  for 
specialty  care; 

•  provisions  for  after-hours  and  emergency 
coverage; 

•  benefits  and  services  included  and  excluded 
from  membership  and  how  to  obtain  them 
(special  benefit  provisions  that  apply  to  services 
obtained  outside  the  system,  procedures  for 
obtaining  out-of-area  coverage,  charges  to  mem- 


bers, procedures  for  notifying  members  affected 
by  termination  or  change  in  benefit  or  service  or 
service  delivery  site); 

•  procedures  for  appealing  adverse  decisions 
concerning  coverage,  benefits  or  relationship 
to  the  organization; 

•  procedures  for  changing  practitioners; 

•  procedures  for  disenrollment  of  nongroup 
subscribers;  and 

•  procedures  for  voicing  complaints  and/or 
grievances,  and  for  recommending  changes 
in  policies  and  services  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  Member's'  Rights  and  Respons- 
ibilities, 1996,  RR  5.1]. 

Members  are  provided  information  about  pre- 
ventive health  guidelines  for  the  use  of  preventive 
health  services  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Preventive  Health  Services,  1996,  PH  3.0]. 

Member  information  is  written  in  language 
that  is  readable,  easily  understood  and  consumer- 
tested  and  is  available,  as  needed  in  the  language(s) 
of  the  major  population  groups  served  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Members'  Rights 
and  Responsibilities,  1996,  RR  6.1-6.2]. 

URAC 

The  Network  shall  define  its  service  area,  specify 
the  scope  of  services  to  be  provided,  and  implement 
a  mechanism  to  communicate  the  availability  of 
Network  providers  to  contracting  payors,  members, 
or  groups  (National  Network  .Accreditation  Stan- 
dards, April  1996,  NM  5.0). 

The  Network  shall,  to  the  extent  that  it  is 
responsible  for  these  services,  maintain  high  stan- 
dards of  marketing  and  sales  activities  and  provide 
safeguards  to  ensure  that  marketing  and  sales  activ- 
ities performed  by  the  Network  do  not  intentionally 
or  unintentionally  misrepresent: 

•  the  benefit  plans; 

•  provider  panel  availability  and  accessibility; 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


126 


I  I.N.  Rights  and  Responsibilities-Plan  (continued) 


•  plan  coverage,  including  any  exclusions  and 
limitations  of  benefits,  services,  or  provider  types; 

•  administrative  requirements; 

•  medical  management  requirements  {National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996, 
MP  10.0  to  MP  10.5). 

The  Network  shall,  to  the  extent  that  it  is  con- 
tractually responsible,  communicate  with  accounts, 
plan  members,  and  prospective  plan  members  in 
a  clear  and  understandable  format,  and  provide 
information  about: 

•  plan  coverage  including  provisions  that  could 
limit  access  to  care; 

•  benefit  reductions  for  out  of  Network  utilization; 

•  utilization  management  requirements; 

•  the  number  of  participating  providers  by 
specialty  and  location; 

•  plan  enrollment  satisfaction  statistics  including 
percent  of  disenrollment  and  reasons  for 
disenrollment  {National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  MP  11.0  to  MP  11.5). 

The  Network  or  the  health  plan  using  Network 
services  shall  make  a  summary  of  the  complaint, 
grievance,  and  appeal  process  available  to  all  mem- 
bers {National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  MP  5.0). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  Evidence  of  coverage  must  include 
statement  of: 

•  the  health  care  services  and  other  benefits; 

•  exclusions  or  limitations  on  services; 

•  where  and  how  to  obtain  health  care  services, 
including  emergency  and  out-of-area  services; 

•  total  amount  of  payment  and  copayment; 

•  description  of  the  plan's  method  for  resolving 
enrollee  complaints;  and 

•  enrollee  rights  and  responsibilities  [Minnesota 
Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations,  62D.07]. 


The  plan  provides  an  annual  report  to  its 
enrollees  which  includes:  (1)  summary  of  its  most 
recent  annual  financial  statement;  (2)  description 
of  the  plan,  its  facilities  and  personnel;  (3)  current 
evidence  of  coverage  or  contract;  (4)  statement 
of  consumer  information  and  rights  [Minnesota 
Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health  Maintenance  Organi- 
zations, 62D.09,  Subd.3]. 

Medicaid:  A  description  of  the  plan's  complaint 
and  grievance  procedure  and  the  state's  appeal 
procedure  is  provided  to  enrollees  at  the  time  of 
enrollment  [Minnesota  Department  of  Human 
Services  Rules,  9500.1463,  Subp.3]. 

The  plan  describes  the  circumstances 
under  which  a  referral  may  be  made  to  primary 
care  physician  specialists  if  it  does  not  provide 
direct  access  to  all  of  these  primary  care  physician 
practitioners  [Request  for  Proposals,  Medical  Assis- 
tance/General Assistance  Medical  Care,  Minneso- 
taCare,  Minnesota  Senior  Health  Options,  Managed 
Care  Health  Plan  Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 

The  certificate  of  coverage  must  contain 
a  clear  and  concise  statement  of: 

•  health  care  services  the  enrollee  is  entitled 
to  receive; 

•  exclusions  or  limitations  on  services; 

•  proper  use  of  the  membership  card; 

•  how  transportation  services  can  be  accessed; 

•  how  services  may  be  obtained,  including  emer- 
gency, urgent  care  and  out-of-plan  services; 

•  fact  that  services  are  provided  at  no  cost  to  the 
enrollee,  except  for  certain  out-of-plan  services; 

•  plan's  method  for  addressing  and  resolving 
enrollee  complaints  and  a  complete  description 
of  the  state  appeal  procedures,  including  the  role 
of  the  state  ombudsperson; 

•  enrollee  rights; 

•  the  plan's  medical  and  remedial  care  program, 
including  care  management; 

•  plan  services  for  which  enrollee  must  obtain 
plan  approval; 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


127 


II. N.  Rights  and  Responsibilities-Plan  (continued) 


•  telephone  number  and  name  of  plan  employee 
whom  the  enrollee  may  contact  regarding 
coverage  or  in  case  of  emergency; 

•  plan's  Child  and  Teen  checkup  program; 

•  how  enrollees  who  are  non-English  speaking 
and/or  hearing  impaired  can  access  interpreter 
sen  ices; 

•  coordination  of  benefits;  and 

•  conversion  rights  of  enrollees  [Request  for 
Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/General  Assistance 
Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior 
Health  Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan 
Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  The  enrollee  handbook  includes 
information  on: 

•  covered  health  care  services  and  benefits  and 
any  exclusions  or  limitations; 

•  where  and  in  what  manner  information  is 
available  for  the  enrollee  on  how  to  access 
health  services; 

•  provisions  for  the  enrollee  to  obtain  services 
on  a  24-hour,  7-day-a-week  basis; 

•  procedures  for  obtaining  health  services  outside 
the  service  area; 

•  information  on  how  to  change  physicians  and 
any  limitations; 

•  policy  on  the  rights  and  responsibilities  of 
enrollees; 

•  method  for  resolving  enrollee  grievances; 

•  terms  and  conditions  under  which  coverage 
may  be  terminated; 

•  plan  eligibility  requirements; 

•  arrangements  to  ensure  continued  provision  of 
services  in  the  event  of  plan  insolvency  or  loss 
of  provider  sites;  and 

•  number,  type,  qualifications,  availability  and 
location  of  health  care  professionals  and 
facilities  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 


Medicaid:  Enrollees  are  advised  of  their  ability 
to  self-refer  to  mental  health  services  offered 
through  community  mental  health  centers,  family 
planning  services  provided  by  qualified  providers 
and  substance  abuse  services  offered  through  pro- 
grams certified  by  ODADAS  [Ohio  Administrative 
Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-03(H)(3)(4)(5)]. 

The  plan  provides  enrollees  with  a  member 
handbook  including: 

•  rights  and  responsibilities  of  enrollees; 

•  a  statement  of  covered  and  excluded  services 
and  benefits; 

•  provisions  made  for  urgent  and  emergency 
care  coverage  in  and  out  of  the  service  area; 

•  procedures  for  enrollees  to  express  their 
grievances,  complaints  or  recommendations 
for  change; 

•  a  listing  of  all  aid  categories  eligible  for  plan 

coverage; 

•  information  stating  how  to  use  the  plan  ID 
in  lieu  of  the  Medicaid  card; 

•  a  statement  regarding  the  need  to  use  plan 
facilities  and  providers  with  the  exception  of 
emergency  care,  mental  health  services,  family 
planning  and  substance  abuse  services; 

•  information  on  how  to  obtain  and  change 
primary  care  provider; 

•  a  description  of  the  EPSDT  program; 

•  information  on  how  to  arrange  transportation; 

•  an  explanation  of  and  procedures  for  receiving 
medical  services  in  and  out  of  the  enrollee's 
county  of  residence; 

•  information  on  disenrollment  options  and 
limitations 

•  in  the  mandatory  program,  information  on 
the  right  to  and  procedure  for  voluntarily 
disenrolling  from  a  current  plan  and  changing 
to  another; 

•  an  explanation  of  automatic  reenrollment; 

•  information  on  loss  of  Medicaid  eligibility; 


Blue  Cross  ,ind  Itlue  Shirk!  Association 


128 


II.N.  Rights  and  Responsibilities-Plan  (continued) 


•  information  on  coverage  cancellation  and  the 
right  to  appeal  the  cancellation; 

•  the  issuance  date  of  the  member  handbook 
and  the  right  to  refuse  to  participate  in 
experimental  research; 

•  an  explanation  of  subrogation  and  coordination 
of  benefits; 

•  a  clear  identification  of  corporate  or  parent 
identity  of  the  plan; 

•  information  on  enrollee's  right  to  self-refer 

to  community  health  centers,  qualified  family 
planning  providers  and  ODADAS  programs; 

•  policies  on  enrollee's  right  to  formulate 
advance  directives;  and 

•  information  stating  that  the  plan  provides 
covered  services  to  enrollees  through  a  provider 
agreement  with  the  Ohio  Department  of  Human 
Services  and  how  members  can  contact  the 
Department  if  they  so  desire  [Ohio  Administrative 
Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-082  (B)(3)]. 

MCPs  must  develop  and  implement  written 
policies  which  ensure  the  provision  of  specified 
enrollee  rights  [  Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter 
5101:  3-26-085  (A)]. 


•  explanation  of  the  procedures  for  obtaining 
benefits,  including  self-referred  services; 

•  explanation  of  where  and  how  emergency 
medical  care  is  available,  including  an  explana- 
tion of  out-of-area  coverage; 

•  description  of  the  grievance  procedures; 

•  information  regarding  pregnancies  which 
conveys  the  importance  of  prenatal  care; 

•  information  about  family  planning  services; 

•  notification  that  the  selection  of  certain  primary 
care  physicians  may  result  in  residents  providing 
care  to  enrollees; 

•  information  stressing  preventive  care  and 
periodic  visits  to  primary  care  physicians; 

•  information  regarding  the  availability  of  second 
surgical  opinions; 

•  information  on  the  availability  and  process  for 
accessing  Medicaid  services  which  are  not  the 
responsibility  of  the  plan;  and 

•  information  on  the  availability  and  access  to 
EPSDT  services  for  members  under  21  [Pennsyl- 
vania Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating 
Agreement,  Section  6,  Recipient  Services,  6.4]. 


Pennsylvania 

Medicaid:  The  plan  maintains  a  24-hour,  7-day  - 
a-week  toll  free  hotline  to  respond  to  enrollees' 
inquiries,  complaints,  and  problems  [Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agree- 
ment, Section  6,  Recipient  Services,  6.2]. 

The  plan  provides  the  following  materials 
to  enrollees: 

•  names  and  locations  of  participating  primary 
care  case  managers  and  their  hospital  affiliations; 

•  identification  of  primary  care  sites  accessible 
to  handicapped  enrollees; 

•  identification  of  languages  spoken  at  the  primary 
care  sites; 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


129 


1 1.0.  Rights  and  Responsibilities  - 
Members 


Medicare 

Statute:  The  organization  must  maintain  written 
policies  and  procedures  to  :  assure  the  member  is 
provided  information  regarding  his/her  rights  under 
state  law  to  make  decisions  concerning  medical 
care  including  the  right  to  accept  or  refuse  medical 
or  surgical  treatment;  document  in  the  individual's 
medical  record  his/her  advance  directive;  assure 
compliance  with  state  law;  and  educate  staff  and 
the  community  regarding  advance  directives 
[Section  1866(f)  of  the  Social  Security  Act.] 

Regulation:  There  are  written  policies  and  proce- 
dures concerning  advance  directives  including  an 
enrol  lee's  right  to  make  decisions  about  medical 
care,  and  the  right  to  accept  or  refuse  medical  treat- 
ment. Documentation  is  in  the  medical  record  as  to 
whether  or  not  an  individual  has  executed  advance 
directives  [42  CFR  417.436(d)]. 

The  enrollee  agrees  to  abide  by  the  plan's 
rules  after  they  are  disclosed  during  the  enrollment 
process  [42  CFR  417.422(e)]. 

Federal  Qualification 

No  standard  specified. 

Medicaid 

Regulation:  Enrolled  recipients  are  allowed  to 
choose  their  health  professional  in  the  plan  to  the 
extent  possible  and  appropriate  [42  CFR  434.29]. 

Guidelines:  The  plan  has  a  written  policy  that 
addresses  members'  responsibility  to  provide,  to  the 
extent  possible,  information  needed  by  professional 
staff  in  caring  for  the  member  and  to  follow  instruc- 


tions and  guidelines  given  by  those  providing  ser- 
vices [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  System 
for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States, 
Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Adminis- 
tration, July  6,  1993,  Standard  X,  p.  24]. 

There  is  a  written  policy  on  enrollee  rights 
that  addresses  an  enrollee's  right: 

•  to  be  treated  with  respect,  dignity  and  need  for 
privacy; 

•  to  be  provided  with  information  about  the  plan, 
its  services,  practitioners  and  member  rights  and 
responsibilities; 

•  to  be  able  to  choose  primary  care  practitioners, 
within  the  limits  of  the  plan  network; 

•  to  participate  in  decision-making  regarding 
health  care; 

•  to  voice  grievances  about  the  plan  or  care; 

•  to  formulate  advance  directives;  and 

•  to  have  access  to  the  medical  record  [A  Health 
Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for  Medicaid 
Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid 
Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration, 
July  6,  1993,  Standard  X,  p.  24]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

No  standard  specified. 

IMAIC 

The  rights  of  HMO  enrollees  are  specified  in  essen- 
tially the  same  provisions  of  the  HMO  Model  Act 
and  accompanying  regulation  that  specify  the 
responsibilities  of  the  HMO.  [NAIC,  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organization  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation 


Blue  I  ross  .mil  Blue  Shii'ld  Association 


150 


II.O.  Rights  and  Responsibilities-Member  (continued) 


Service  -  July  1995,  Sections  8  and  10;  NAIC,  Model 
Regulation  to  Implement  Rules  Regarding  Contracts 
and  Services  of  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
Model  Regulation  Service  -  Jan.  1991,  Sections  6, 
8,  and  9.]  In  addition,  as  noted  above,  an  HMO  is 
required  to  have  an  approved  grievance  procedure. 
[NAIC,  Health  Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act, 
Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1995,  Sections  11 
and  3;  NAIC,  Model  Regulation  to  Implement  Rules 
Regarding  Contracts  and  Services  of  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organizations,  Model  Regulation  Service  - 
Jan.  1991,  Section  9D.] 

The  models  do  not  themselves  specify  in 
detail  the  rights  and  responsibilities  of  members. 
As  noted  in  II.  N.  above,  however,  the  models  do, 
contain  provisions  requiring  a  health  carrier  to 
specify  the  rights  and  responsibilities  of  members 
with  respect  to  the  carrier's  utilization  review  and 
quality  programs. 

The  Health  Carrier  Grievance  Procedure 
Model  Act  makes  clear  that  a  covered  person  has 
the  right  to  contact  the  commissioner's  office  for 
assistance  at  any  time.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards, 
Health  Carrier  Grievance  Procedure  Model  Act, 
6/2/96,  Sections  6C  and  7C(7),  and  8C(7)(f).]  It  also 
contains  a  drafting  note  suggesting  to  states  that 
they  may  want  to  require  a  covered  person  to  notify 
the  health  carrier  in  advance  of  the  review  date  if 
the  covered  person  intends  to  bring  an  attorney  to 
a  second  level  grievance  review.  [NAIC,  Draft  Stan- 
dards, Health  Carrier  Grievance  Procedure  Model 
Act,  6/2/96,  Section  8C(5),  Drafting  note.] 

The  Utilization  Review  Model  Act  requires  a 
health  carrier  to  have  written  procedures  to  address 
the  failure  or  inability  of  either  a  covered  person 
or  a  provider  to  furnish  all  information  necessary 
for  making  utilization  review  decisions.  The  health 
carrier  may  deny  certification  of  a  service  in  cases 
where  either  the  provider  or  covered  person  will 
not  release  necessary  information.  [NAIC,  Draft 
Standards,  Utilization  Review  Model  Act,  6/4/96, 
Section  9R] 


JCAHO 

The  network  requires  its  components  and 
practitioner  sites  to  involve  members  in  all  aspects 
of  treatment,  care,  and  service  [1996  Joint  Commis- 
sion standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights, 
Responsibilities,  and  Ethics,  RI.2]. 

The  network  provides  for  the  family  to  facili- 
tate care  or  treatment  decision  when  the  member  is 
unable  to  do  so  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities, 
and  Ethics,  RI.2.1]. 

The  network  provides  for  member  involve- 
ment in  resolving  disagreements  in  care  or  treat- 
ment decisions  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities, 
and  Ethics,  RI.2.2]. 

The  network  provides  for  member  involve- 
ment in  decisions  to  withhold  resuscitative  services 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities,  and  Ethics, 
RI.2.3]. 

The  network  provides  for  member  involve- 
ment in  decisions  to  forgo  or  withdraw  life-sustain- 
ing treatment  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities, 
and  Ethics,  RI.2.4]. 

The  network  provides  for  member  involve- 
ment in  decisions  to  participate  in  investigational 
studies  or  clinical  trials  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights, 
Responsibilities,  and  Ethics,  RI.2.5]. 

The  network  protects  the  confidentiality 
of  member  information  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights, 
Responsibilities,  and  Ethics,  RI.3]. 

The  network  communicates  with  members 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities,  and  Ethics, 
RI.3.1]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


131 


II. O.  Rights  and  Responsibilities-Member  (continued) 


The  network  protects  member  privacy  and 
security  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities, 
and  Ethics,  RI.3.2]. 

The  network  provides  for  the  receipt  and  reso- 
lution of  complaints  and  grievances  from  members 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities,  and  Ethics,  RI.4]. 

Members  are  informed  of  their  responsibility 
for  providing  necessary  information  to  facilitate 
effective  treatment  and  for  cooperating  with  health 
care  providers  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities, 
and  Ethics,  RI.5]. 

Members  are  informed  about  any  potential 
consequences  of  not  complying  with  a  recom- 
mended treatment  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights, 
Responsibilities,  and  Ethics,  RI.5.1]. 

Members  are  informed  of  specific  health  care 
needs  that  require  follow-up  [1996  Joint  Commis- 
sion standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Continuum  of  Care,  CC.6]. 

The  network  ensures  that  each  member 
receives  information  about  the  network  and  its 
services,  components,  clinical  staff,  and  licensed 
independent  practitioners  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Education 
and  Communication,  ED.l]. 

The  network  ensures  that  each  member 
receives  information  about  how  to  access  network 
services  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Education  and  Commu- 
nication, ED.  1.1]. 

The  network  ensures  that  each  member 
receives  information  about  how  to  access  emer- 
gency services  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Education  and  Commu- 
nication, ED.  1.2]. 


The  network  informs  members  about  the 
scope  of  health  care  services  included  in  the  net- 
work's benefit  package  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Education 
and  Communication,  ED. 1.3]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  charges, 
copayments,  and  fees  for  which  the  members  is 
responsible  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Education  and  Communica- 
tion, ED.1.3.1]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  how 
to  obtain  services  when  outside  the  network's 
geographic  service  area  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Education 
and  Communication,  ED.  1.3.2]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  how  to 
obtain  services  not  covered  in  the  network's  benefit 
package  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Education  and  Communi- 
cation, ED.  1.3.3]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  special 
benefit  provisions,  such  as  copayments,  higher 
deductibles,  and  rejection  of  claims  that  may  apply 
to  services  obtained  outside  the  network  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Education  and  Communication,  ED. 1.3.4]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  changes 
in  network  benefits,  charges,  services,  components, 
clinical  staff,  or  licensed  independent  practitioners 
[Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Net- 
works, Education  and  Communication,  ED.  1.3.5]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  how 
to  change  from  one  network  licensed  independent 
practitioner  or  clinical  staff  member  to  another 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Education  and  Communication,  ED.  1.3.6]. 

The  network  informs  members  about  how  to 
disenroll  from  the  network  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Education  and 
Communication,  ED.  1.3.7]. 


Blur  Cross  .mil  lllur  Shield  Association 


I  ~>2 


II. O.  Rights  and  Responsibilities-Member  (continued) 


NCQA 

There  is  a  written  policy  recognizing  rights 
of  members  to: 

•  voice  grievances  about  the  organization  or 
care  provided; 

•  be  provided  with  information  about  the  organi- 
zation, its  services,  the  practitioners  providing 
care,  and  members'  rights  and  responsibilities; 

•  participate  in  decision-making  about  their 
care;  and 

•  be  treated  with  respect  and  recognition  of  their 
dignity  and  need  for  privacy  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  Members'  Rights  and  Responsi- 
bilities, 1996,  RR  1.1]. 

There  is  written  policy  that  addresses  mem- 
bers' responsibility  for  cooperating  with  those 
providing  health  care  services,  including  providing 
needed  information  to  professional  staff,  and  follow- 
ing instructions  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Members'  Rights  and  Responsibilities,  1996,  RR 
2.0-2.1.2]. 

URAC 

The  Network  shall  implement  a  program  to  educate 
members  about  their  members'  rights,  including 
the  right  to: 

•  receive  medically  necessary  and  appropriate 
care  and  services; 

•  receive  courteous  and  respectful  care  and 
services; 

•  receive  information  in  clear  and  understandable 
terms; 

•  participate  in  the  decision-making  process 
regarding  their  care  and  treatment; 

•  refuse  treatment; 

•  file  complaints  and  grievances  (National  Network 
Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  MP  1.0  to 
MP  1.6). 


The  Network/UMO  shall  have  written  proce- 
dures to  address  the  failure  or  inability  of  a  health 
care  provider,  patient,  or  their  representative  lo 
provide  the  necessary  information  for  utilization 
review.  If  the  patient  or  provider  will  not  release 
the  necessary  information,  certification  may  be 
denied  (National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  UM  27.0). 

The  Network/UMO  shall  allow  any  provider 
or  responsible  patient  representative,  including  a 
family  member,  to  assist  in  fulfilling  UM  certifica- 
tion requirements  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  UM  5.0). 

All  plans:  The  enmllee  bill  <>|'  rights  includes: 

•  right  to  available  and  accessible  services; 

•  right  to  be  informed  of  health  problems  and  to 
receive  information  regarding  treatment  alterna- 
tives and  risks  sufficient  to  assure  informed 
choice; 

•  right  to  refuse  treatment  and  right  to  privacy 
of  medical  and  financial  records; 

•  right  to  file  a  grievance  and  the  right  to  initiate 

a  legal  proceeding  when  experiencing  a  problem 
with  the  plan  or  its  providers; 

•  right  to  a  grace  period  of  31  days  for  the  payment 
of  premium; 

•  Medicare  enrollees  have  the  right  to  voluntarily 
disenroll  and  the  right  not  to  be  requested  to 
disenroll  except  in  circumstances  specified  in 
federal  law;  and 

•  Medicare  enrollees  have  the  right  to  a  clear 
description  of  nursing  home  and  home  care 
benefits  covered  by  the  plan  [Minnesota  Statutes, 
Chapter  62D,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
62D.07]. 

Medicaid:  Enrollee  rights  include: 

•  right  to  file  an  appeal  with  the  plan  or  state; 

•  right  to  request  an  expedited  hearing  from  die 
state;  and 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


133 


II.O.  Rights  and  Responsibilities-Member  (continued) 


•  right  to  obtain  a  second  medical  opinion  from 
a  plan  provider  [Request  for  Proposals,  Medical 
Assistance/General  Assistance  Medical  Care, 
MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior  Health 
Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan  Contracts, 
State  of  Minnesota]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  The  plan  has  a  policy  on  the  rights  and 
responsibilities  of  enrollees  [Ohio  Administrative 
Code,  Chapter  5101:5-26-082  (B)(5)]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  and/or  providers  have  a  policy 
regarding  enrollee  responsibility  and  participation 
in  their  own  care  [Ohio  Administrative  Code, 
Chapter  5101:5-26-075(B)(4)]. 

The  plan  has  written  policies  on  the  rights 
of  enrollees  which  include: 

•  enrollees  are  treated  with  respect,  consideration 
and  dignity; 

•  enrollees  are  ensured  confidential  handling  of 
information  concerning  their  diagnosis,  treat- 
ments, prognosis  and  medical  and  social  history; 

•  information  is  conveyed  to  the  individual's  legally 
authorized  representative  when  concern  for  an 
enrollee's  health  makes  it  inadvisable  to  give 
him/her  information; 

•  enrollees  are  given  the  opportunity  to  participate 
in  decisions  involving  their  health  care  unless 
contraindicated; 

•  enrollees  are  assured  of  auditory  and  visual 
privacy  during  examinations; 

•  enrollees  are  afforded  the  opportunity  to  approve 
or  refuse  release  of  information  except  when 
release  is  required  by  law; 

•  enrollees  are  given  the  opportunity  to  refuse 
treatment  or  therapy  and  to  be  counseled  regard- 
ing the  consequences; 

•  enrollees  are  given  the  opportunity  to  express 
grievances; 


•  enrollees  are  assured  that  all  plan-enrollee 
information  is  available  as  needed  in  the 
language  of  major  population  groups  served 
(including  services  of  bilingual  or  sign  language 
assistance,  if  necessary); 

•  enrollees  are  informed  of  student  practitioner 
roles  and  their  right  to  refuse  student  care; 

•  enrollees  are  informed  of  their  right  to  formulate 
advance  directives  and; 

•  enrollees  are  informed  of  their  right  to  refuse 
to  participate  in  experimental  research  [Ohio 
Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:5-26-085  (A)]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  The  plan  has  written  procedures  for 
informing  subscribers  of  at  least  the  following 
enrollee  rights: 

•  timely  and  effective  redress  of  grievances; 

•  right  to  complete  and  easily  understood  written 
information; 

•  right  to  receive  from  PCP  information  on 
diagnosis,  treatment  and  prognosis; 

•  right  to  name,  professional  status  and  function  of 
personnel  providing  health  services  to  him/her; 

•  informed  consent  before  start  of  any  procedure 
or  treatment; 

•  whether  any  provider  or  facility  engages  in 
experimentation  or  research  affecting  his/her 
care  or  treatment; 

•  right  to  refuse  treatment  to  the  extent  permitted 
by  law; 

•  right  to  have  records  pertaining  to  care  treated 
confidentially; 

•  right  to  medical  record  unless  restricted  for 
medical  reasons;  and 

•  right  to  emergency  care  [28  Pa.  Code,  Section 
9.77]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


154 


II.P.  Member  Satisfaction 


Medicare 

Statute:  Health  plans  which  place  physicians 
and  physician  groups  at  substantial  financial  risk 
must  conduct  periodic  surveys  of  current  and  past 
enrollees  to  determine  the  degree  of  access  to  ser- 
vices and  satisfaction  with  the  quality  of  services 
[Section  1876(i)(8)  of  the  Social  Security  Act]. 

Regulation:  On  or  after  January  1,  1997.  Organiza- 
tions that  operate  incentive  plans  that  place  physi- 
cians or  physician  groups  at  substantial  financial 
risk,  determined  to  be  25  percent  of  potential  pay- 
ments, must  conduct  enrollee/disenrollee  surveys 
of  satisfaction  with  quality  and  access.  Specifically, 
the  surveys  must:  be  conducted  biannually;  and  be 
consistent  with  accepted  principles  of  survey 
design  and  statistical  analysis  [42  CFR  417.479  (g)]. 

Policy:  The  plan  maintains  data  on  enrollee 
complaints  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health 
Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health 
Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989, 
4201.4.B]  and  has  the  information  reviewed  by 
the  QA  committee  [Manual  for  Federally  Qualified 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title  13,  Public 
Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1,  November 
1989,  4201.3.B]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Policy:  Plans  maintain  data  on  enrollee  complaints 
[Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.4.B]  and 
have  the  information  reviewed  by  the  QA  committee 


[Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  \.ct), 
Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.5.B]. 

Medicaid 

Statute:  Health  plans  which  place  physicians 
and  physician  groups  at  substantial  financial  risk 
must  conduct  periodic  surveys  of  current  and  past 
enrollees  to  determine  the  degree  of  access  to 
services  and  satisfaction  with  the  quality  of  services 
[Sections  1903(m)(2)(A)(x)  and  1876(i)(8)  of  the 
Social  Security  Act]. 

Regulation:  On  or  after  January  1,  1997.  Organiza- 
tions that  operate  incentive  plans  that  place  physi- 
cians or  physician  groups  at  substantial  financial 
risk,  determined  to  by  25  percent  of  potential  pay- 
ments, must  conduct  enrollee/disenrollee  surveys 
of  satisfaction  with  quality  and  access.  Specifically, 
the  surveys  must:  be  conducted  biannually;  and  be 
consistent  with  accepted  principles  of  survey  design 
and  statistical  analysis.  [42CFR  417.479  (g)]. 

1115  Waiver  Terms  and  Conditions:  Waivers 
require  each  managed  care  organization  to  survey 
its  member  satisfaction,  including  use  of  emergency 
rooms,  average  wait  time  for  appointments,  average 
time  and  distance  to  reach  providers,  and  the  num- 
ber of  disenrollements.  Following  the  first  year,  the 
State  shall  conduct  beneficiary  surveys  during  each 
year  of  the  demonstration. 

Guidelines:  Opportunities  are  provided  for  mem- 
bers to  offer  suggestions  for  changes  in  policies 
and  procedures  [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improve- 
ment System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide 
for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard  X.F,  p.  26]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


155 


I  LP.  Member  Satisfaction  (continued) 


The  plan  conducts  periodic  surveys  of  current, 
changing  and  disenrolled  members  to  assess  mem- 
ber satisfaction  with  respect  to  perceived  problems 
in  the  quality,  availability  and  accessibility  of  care. 
Survey  results  are  used  to  identify  and  investigate 
sources  of  dissatisfaction,  outline  steps  for  follow-up 
action  and  inform  practitioners  and  providers 
|  \  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for 
Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medic- 
aid Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration, 
July  6,  1995,  Standard  X.R,  pp.  27-28]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Program  Expectation:  Patient  satisfaction  surveys 
are  incorporated  within  BPHC  funded  programs' 
Quality  Management  systems  and  are  utilized  to 
improve  quality  and  access  to  primary  care  services. 
Patient  satisfaction  surveys  should  be  conducted  on 
a  regularly  scheduled  basis,  their  results  tabulated, 
analyzed  and  reviewed  by  the  Board,  and  a  process 
for  appropriate  corrective  action  or  program  modifi- 
cation conducted.  [PCER  Clinical  Protocol  IV.C.2 
PCER  Governance  Protocol  IV.9.] 

NAIC 

A  health  maintenance  organization  is  required  to 
maintain  records  about  the  grievances  received. 
[NAIC,  Health  Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act, 
Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1995,  Section  11] 

A  health  carrier  must  maintain  a  grievance 
register  to  document  all  grievances  received  during 
a  calendar  year.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Health 
Carrier  Grievance  Procedure  Model  Act,  6/2/96, 
Section  5.]  "Grievance"  is  broadly  defined  to  mean 
"a  written  complaint  submitted  by  or  on  behalf  of 
a  covered  person  regarding  the:  (a)  availability, 
delivery  or  quality  of  health  care  services,  including 
a  complaint  regarding  an  adverse  determination 
made  pursuant  to  utilization  review;  (b)  claims 
payment,  handling  or  reimbursement  for  health 


care  services;  or  (c)  matters  pertaining  to  the  con- 
tractual relationship  between  a  covered  person  and 
a  health  carrier."  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Health 
Carrier  Grievance  Procedure  Model  Act,  6/2/96, 
Section  5Q.]  For  each  grievance  the  register  must 
specify:  a  general  description  of  the  reason  for  the 
grievance;  the  date  it  was  received;  the  date  of  each 
review  or  hearing;  the  resolution  at  each  level  of  the 
grievance,  and  the  date  of  the  resolution;  and  the 
name  of  the  covered  person  for  whom  the  grievance 
was  filed.  The  register  must  be  maintained  for  the 
longer  of  three  (5)  years  or  until  the  commissioner 
has  adopted  a  final  report  of  an  examination  that 
contains  a  review  of  the  register  for  that  calendar 
year.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Health  Carrier  Griev- 
ance Procedure  Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Section  5.] 

The  health  carrier  must  submit  an  annual 
report  to  the  commissioner  which  summarizes 
the  information  contained  in  the  register  and 
meets  the  specifications  of  the  grievance  model  act. 
[NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Health  Carrier  Grievance 
Procedure  Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Section  5.] 

A  health  carrier's  quality  improvement  plan 
must  describe  how  the  carrier  intends  to  document 
both  the  satisfaction  and  grievances  of  covered  per- 
sons. [NAIC,  Quality  Assessment  and  Improvement 
Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1996, 
Section  6C(2)(c)(iii).] 

A  health  carrier's  access  plan  must  describe 
the  carrier's  method  for  assessing  the  satisfaction  of 
covered  persons.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Managed 
Care  Plan  Network  Adequacy  Model  Act,  6/2/96, 
Section  5B(5).] 

JCAHO 

The  network  regularly  gathers  and  takes  appropri- 
ate action  on  information  about  members'  and  oth- 
ers' satisfaction  with  services  provided  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Leadership,  LD.2.4.5.1]. 


Blue  (joss  ami  Blue  Shield  Association 


156 


II. P.  Member  Satisfaction  (continued) 


The  leaders  regularly  assess  and  use  infor- 
mation about  member  needs  and  satisfaction  to 
improve  member  services  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Leadership, 
LD.5.5]. 

Periodic  measurement  provides  data  about 
the  needs  and  expectations  of  members  and  others; 
(and)  the  degree  to  which  these  needs  and  expecta- 
tions have  been  met  [1996  Joint  Commission  stan- 
dards for  Health  Care  Networks,  Improving  Network 
Performance,  PI.3.3,  PI.3.3.1,  and  PI.3.3.2]. 

NCQA 

Members  may  offer  suggestions  for  quality  improve- 
ment [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality 
Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.5.2]. 

The  MCO  assesses  and  enhances  member 
satisfaction  with  its  services  by: 

•  periodically  assessing  at  least  a  sample  of 
patient  complaints,  requests  to  change  practition- 
ers and/or  facilities,  and  disenrollments  of  its 
members; 

•  conducting  periodic  surveys  of  satisfaction  with 
the  MCO's  services; 

•  identifying  and  addressing  sources  of  dissatisfac- 
tion; and 

•  informing  practitioners  and  providers  of  assess- 
ment results  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Members'  Rights  and  Responsibilities,  1996, 

RR  8.0]. 

URAC 

The  Network  shall  obtain  input  and  suggestions 
about  Network  operations  from  members  by 
means  of : 

•  annual  patient  surveys; 

•  periodic  telephone  surveys  of  members; 

•  suggestion  and  evaluation  cards  available 
in  participating  physician  offices; 


•  toll  free  telephone  line(s)  (National  Vetwork 
Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  MP  3.0  to 
MP  3.4). 

The  Network  Quality  Management  Program 
shall  include  in  its  evaluations  of  participating 
providers  member  surveys,  and  the  monitoring 
and  investigation  of  member  complaints  regarding 
quality  of  care  and  quality  of  service  (National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996, 
QM  5.0,  5.1  and  5.3). 

The  Network  should  develop  or  adopt  addi- 
tional QM  standards  that  monitor  patient  satisfac- 
tion with  care  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  QM  7.2). 

The  Network  shall  establish  and  implement 
a  mechanism  to  report  quality  of  care  and  quality 
of  service  complaints  at  least  quarterly  to  Network 
management  or  to  the  Network  committee  responsi- 
ble for  QM  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  QM  12.0). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  The  Commissioner  of  Health  or  each  plan 
may  conduct  enrollee  surveys  to  ascertain  enrollee 
satisfaction  as  part  of  the  overall  quality  evaluation 
program  [Chapter  4685,  Department  of  Health, 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations,  4685.1100]. 

Medicaid:  There  is  an  ongoing  review  of  enrollee 
satisfaction  as  monitored  through  an  annual  survey 
[Minnesota  Department  of  Human  Services  Rules, 
9500.1460  Subp.17]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  The  quality  assurance  program  encom- 
passes surveys  of  enrollee  and  provider  satisfaction 
[Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  provides  enrollees  with  the 
opportunity  to  offer  their  opinions  and  suggestions 
for  improvement  in  service  delivery  [Ohio  Adminis- 
trative Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-082  (C)]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


157 


II.P.  Member  Satisfaction  (continued) 


At  a  minimum,  the  plan  must  annually  assess 
through  a  survey  enrollee  satisfaction  with  specified 
elements  of  the  availability  and  accessibility  of 
health  care  based  on  a  sample  of  current  Medicaid 
enrollees,  former  enrollees  and  enrollees  who  have 
requested  to  change  practitioners  and/or  facilities 
[Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-082 
(C)(2)]. 

As  a  result  of  the  survey,  the  plan  identifies 
and  investigates  sources  of  dissatisfaction;  outlines 
steps  of  action  to  follow-up  on  findings;  informs 
practitioners,  providers  and  enrollees  of  survey 
findings;  monitors  and  evaluates  effectiveness  of 
MCP's  efforts  to  address  survey  findings  and 
annually  forwards  survey  tool  and  results  to  ODHS 
[Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-082 
(C)(2)(d)]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  Plans  are  required  to  have  one-third 
of  their  Board  [28  Pa.  Code,  Section  9.96]  and 
Grievance  Committee  [28  Pa.  Code,  Section  9.73] 
composed  of  subscribers  to  the  plan 

Medicaid:  The  plan  shall  establish  and  maintain 
a  Community  Advisory  Committee  representative 
of  the  community  served  [Pennsylvania  Department 
of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section 
14,  Quality  Assurance  and  Utilization  Review, 
Attachment  IV,  14.6]. 


Blur  Cross  and  Blur  Shield  Association 


158 


II.Q.  Accountability 


Medicare 

Regulation:  Under  general  authority,  accountability 
can  be  addressed  under  42  CFR  417.412(a),  which 
states  that,  the  HMO  or  CMP  must  demonstrate  that 
it  (a)  has  sufficient  administrative  capability  to  carry 
out  the  requirements  of  the  contract. 

Policy:  The  policymaking  body  (or  designee  report- 
ing to  such  body)  annually  reviews  the  continuity 
and  effectiveness  of  the  OA  program  and  adapts 
it  in  accordance  with  the  findings  of  its  review 
[Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.1.C]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Statute:  The  plan  has  administrative  and  manager- 
ial arrangements  satisfactory  to  the  Secretary  [Title 
XIII  of  the  Public  Health  Service  Act,  Section 
1301(c)(1)(B)]. 

Regulation:  There  is  a  policymaking  body  that 
exercises  oversight  and  control  over  the  HMO's  poli- 
cies and  personnel  to  ensure  that  decisions  are  in 
the  best  interest  of  enrollees  [42  CFR  417.124(a)(1)]. 

Policy:  The  policymaking  body  (or  designee  report- 
ing to  such  body)  annually  reviews  the  continuity 
and  effectiveness  of  the  QA  program  and  adapts  it 
in  accordance  with  the  findings  of  their  review 
[Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.1.C]. 


Medicaid 

Guidelines:  Responsibilities  of  the  governing  body 
for  monitoring,  evaluating  and  making  improve- 
ments to  care  include:  oversight  of  the  quality  assur- 
ance program;  designation  of  an  oversight  entity 
if  such  oversight  is  not  provided  directly  by  the  gov- 
erning body;  review  of  progress  reports  on  quality 
assurance  activities;  at  least  an  annual  review  of  the 
quality  assurance  program;  and  delineation  of  pro- 
gram modifications,  where  appropriate  [A  Health 
Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for  Medicaid 
Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau, 
Health  Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993, 
Standard  III,  p.  18]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Guidance:  The  governance  requirements  for 
BPHC-funded  health  centers  are  unique  among 
health  service  programs  and  are  the  basis  of  insur- 
ing that  each  health  center  is  representative  of  and 
responsive  to  the  community  it  serves.  Health 
Center  Boards  of  Directors  are  accountable  for  all 
activities,  fiscal  and  operational.  Because  of  the 
increasing  complexity  of  organizations  and  the  envi- 
ronment in  which  they  operate,  Boards  of  Directors 
should  include  individuals  with  a  variety  of  special 
expertise. 

Policy:  Community  Health  Center  Boards  are 
required  to  be  of  9  to  25  members,  the  majority 
designated  as  regular  health  center  users.  Board 
members  represent:  a)  the  demographic  character- 
istics of  the  population,  (gender,  economic  status, 
race,  ethnicity,  age)  and  b)  the  special  populations 
served.  [PCER  Governance  Protocol  I.1...I.3.] 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


139 


II.Q.  Accountability  (continued) 


Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Guidance:  For  any  health  center  receiving  Migrant 
Health  Center  329  funds  only,  51%  of  the  Board 
members  must  be  Migrant  Seasonal  Farm  Workers 
(MSFW).  For  any  health  center  that  receives  329 
funding  and  other  federal  funding,  Board  represen- 
tation must  be  established  in  reasonable  proportion 
to  their  percentage  of  the  health  center  user  popula- 
tion. A  minimum  of  one  MSFW  representative  must 
sit  on  the  Board  of  any  health  center  that  receives 
529  funding.  MSFW  user  Board  members  are 
defined  as  those  who  have  used  the  services  of  any 
health  center  within  the  past  two  years.  Note  that 
they  need  not  have  received  services  from  the  same 
health  center  because  of  the  inherent  mobility  of 
this  population.  There  should  be  appropriate  assur- 
ances that  the  input  of  MSFWs  is  actively  sought 
when  they  are  out  of  the  area  for  seasonal  migra- 
tory farmwork. 

Policy:  Migrant  and  Seasonal  Farm  Workers 
(MSFWs)  are  required  to  be  represented  in  the  user 
segment  of  the  Board  in  approximately  the  same 
ratio  that  they  are  represented  among  the  health 
center  users,  as  required  in  Section  529  Migrant 
Health  Programs  grant. 

a)  [f  the  program  receives  Section  329  funds  only, 
51%  of  Board  members  are  required  to  be 
MSFWs. 

b)  If  the  program  receives  Section  529  funds  as 
well  as  other  federal  funding,  the  percent  of  user 
Board  members  is  representative  of  the  MSFW 
user  population.  [PCEB  Governance  Protocol 
II.1...II.10.] 

Guidance:  Ryan  White  1 1 1 B  HIV  programs  and 
Section  540  Health  Care  for  the  Homeless  programs 
do  not  have  governing  body  requirements.  However, 
user  panels  are  required  to  participate  in  developing 
the  health  care  plan  and  service  delivery  component 
of  the  programs'  operations. 


NAIC 

An  HMO  must  specify,  as  part  of  its  written  quality 
assurance  program,  the  organizational  structure 
responsible  for  quality  assurance  activities  and  the 
duties  and  responsibilities  of  the  physician  responsi- 
ble for  the  quality  assurance  activities.  [NAIC, 
Health  Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act,  Model 
Regulation  Service  -  July  1995,  Section  7] 

The  Chief  Medical  Officer  or  Clinical  Director 
of  the  health  carrier  has  primary  responsibility  for 
the  quality  assessment  and  quality  improvement 
activities  carried  out  by,  or  on  behalf  of,  the  health 
carrier  and  for  ensuring  compliance  with  the  Qual- 
ity Assessment  and  Improvement  Model  Act.  The 
commissioner  will  hold  the  health  carrier  responsi- 
ble for  the  actions  of  its  Chief  Medical  Officer  or 
Clinical  Director.  [NAIC,  Quality  Assessment  and 
Improvement  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service 
-  July  1996,  Section  7.] 

JCAHO 

The  leaders  provide  for  compliance  with  applicable 
law  and  regulation  [1996  Joint  Commission  stan- 
dards for  Health  Care  Networks,  Leadership,  LD.1.1]. 

The  leaders  provide  for  comparable  perfor- 
mance of  member  care  processes  throughout  the 
network  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Leadership,  LD.1.4]. 

The  leaders  see  that  health  care  services  are 
appropriately  integrated  throughout  the  network 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Leadership,  LD.4]. 

The  leaders  set  expectations,  develop  plans, 
and  manage  processes  to  design,  measure,  assess, 
improve,  and  maintain  performance  of  the  net- 
work's clinical,  management,  and  support  activities 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Leadership,  LD.5]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


I  II) 


II.Q.  Accountability  (continued) 


The  leaders  allocate  adequate  resources  for 
measuring,  assessing,  and  improving  the  network's 
performance  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Leadership,  LD.5.3]. 

The  leaders  evaluate  their  effectiveness  in 
improving  performance  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Leadership, 
LD.5.4].  1.1.4]. 

NCQA 

The  QI  committee  is  accountable  to  the  governing 
body  of  the  organization.  There  is  evidence  of 
accountability  at  the  highest  levels  of  the  organiza- 
tion and  ongoing  and/or  continuous  oversight  of 
the  QI  process  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Quality  Management  and  Improvement,  1996, 
QI.2.0]. 

The  governing  body  formally  designates  a 
subcommittee  to  provide  oversight  of  QI  or  formally 
decides  to  provide  such  oversight  as  a  committee 
of  the  whole  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Quality  Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.2.1]. 

There  is  documentation  that  the  governing 
body  has  approved  the  overall  QI  program  and 
annual  QI  plan  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Quality  Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI  2.2- 
2.3]  and  received  regular  written  reports  from  the 
QI  program  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Quality  Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.2.4]. 

The  governing  body,  or  the  group  or  individual 
to  whom  the  governing  body  has  formally  delegated 
the  credentialing  function,  reviews  and  approves 
credentialing  policies  and  procedures  [NCQA  Stan- 
dards for  Accreditation,  Credentialing,  1996,  CR  2.0]. 

The  MCO  designates  a  credentialing  com- 
mittee or  other  peer  review  body  that  makes 
recommendations  regarding  credentialing  decisions 
[NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Credentialing, 
1996,  CR  3.0]. 


URAC 

The  Network  shall  ensure  the  involvement  of  affili- 
ated physicians  and  other  health  care  practitioners 
in  Network  management  through  appropriate 
mechanisms  such  as: 

•  advisory  boards  and  committees; 

•  participation  on  medical  management  or 
peer  review  committees; 

•  participation  on  grievance  and  appeals 
committees; 

•  participation  as  physician  advisors  to  the 
UM  program  {National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  NM  12.0  to  NM  12.4). 

The  Network  shall  establish  a  committee 
that  has  responsibility  for  QM  that: 

•  has  delegated  authority  from  the  Network's 
governing  body  or  corporate  management  to 
conduct  the  QM  Program; 

•  is  accountable  to  the  governing  body/corporate 
management  for  the  QM  Program; 

•  includes  participating  providers; 

•  meets  at  least  quarterly; 

•  maintains  minutes  of  all  committee  meetings 
and  documents  all  QM  actions  and  activities; 

•  evaluates  and  reports  on  the  overall  effectiveness 
of  the  QM  Program  (National  Network  Accredita- 
tion Standards,  April  1996,  QM  1.0  to  QM  1.6). 

The  Network  shall  have  a  Medical  Director 
who  is  responsible  for: 

•  the  clinical  aspects  of  the  QM  Program; 

•  interfacing  and  communicating  with  participat- 
ing providers  on  QM  issues  and  problems 
(National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  QM  2.0  to  QM  2.2  ). 

The  Network  credentialing  committee: 

•  has  delegated  authority  from  the  Network's 
governing  body  or  corporate  management  to 
conduct  the  Credentialing  Program; 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


141 


II. Q.  Accountability  (continued) 


•  is  accountable  to  the  governing  body/corporate 
management; 

•  evaluates  and  reports  on  the  overall  effectiveness 
of  the  Credentialing  Program  {National  Network 
Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996,  PC  1.1,  1.2, 
and  1.6). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  The  plan  assumes  ultimate  responsibility 
for  the  evaluation  of  quality  of  care  provided  to 
enrollees  and  the  governing  body  periodically 
reviews  and  approves  the  quality  assurance 
program  activities  [Chapter  4685,  Department  of 
Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1110,  Subp.2]. 

The  governing  body  designates  a  quality  assur- 
ance entity  that  may  be  a  person  or  persons  respon- 
sible for  operation  of  the  quality  assurance  program 
activities.  This  entity  meets  with  the  governing 
body  at  least  quarterly  [Chapter  4685,  Department 
of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1110,  Subp.3]. 

Medicaid:  The  process  of  continuous  quality 
improvement  takes  place  with  the  full  acknowledg- 
ment and  approval  of  the  governing  body  of  the 
plan  and  the  governing  body  is  routinely  informed 
of  and  approves  any  changes  in  the  system 
[Request  for  Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/General 
Assistance  Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota 
Senior  Health  Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan 
Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 


Ohio 

All  plans:  There  is  a  committee  responsible  for 
quality  assurance  activities,  accountable  to  the  gov- 
erning body,  which  meets  quarterly  and  maintains 
a  formal  record  of  its  activities  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

There  is  recognition  in  the  plan  bylaws  that 
the  governing  body  is  ultimately  accountable  for 
the  quality  of  health  care  provided  to  enrollees.  The 
governing  body  oversees  the  activities  of  the  quality 
assurance  program  and  the  committee  responsible 
for  quality  assurance  reports  to  plan  management 
and  the  governing  body  not  less  than  quarterly 
[Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  The  MP  must  establish  appropriate 
administrative  procedures  to  ensure  ongoing  opera- 
tion and  documentation  of  quality  improvement 
activities  including  the  designation  of  the  responsi- 
ble governing  body  and  senior  executive.  [Ohio 
Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-071  (H)]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  At  least  once  a  year,  a  report  is  presented 
to  the  board  of  directors  on  quality  assurance 
activities,  including  studies  undertaken,  results, 
subsequent  actions  and  aggregate  data  on  utilization 
and  quality  of  services  rendered  to  enrollees 
[28  Pa.  Code,  Section  9.74(d)]. 

Also  see  NCQA  Standards  and  Integrated 
Delivery  System  Statement  of  Policy.  The  plan 
implements  a  program  for  accountability  which 
determines  the  QA  responsibilities  and  provides 
an  organizational  structure  so  that  the  accountable 
person  and  any  associated  committees  or  entities 
are  ultimately  accountable  to  the  Board  of  the  plan 
[Appendix  I,  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Health, 
HMO  Quality  Assurance  Standards,  A.  1.2]. 


til uc  Cross  jind  Blue  Shield  Assneuition 


142 


II.R.  Delegation 


Medicare 

Policy:  If  certain  quality  assurance  functions  are 
delegated,  the  governing  body  remains  accountable 
for  all  OA  activities  and  must  demonstrate  that  all 
basic  requirements  of  the  OA  program  are  met 
[Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Sen  ice  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989.  4201.1.D]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Policy:  If  certain  quality  assurance  functions  are 
delegated,  the  governing  body  remains  accountable 
for  all  QA  activities  and  demonstrates  that  all  basic 
requirements  of  the  QA  program  are  met  [Manual 
for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Sendee  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  1.  November  1989,  4201.1.D]. 

Medicaid 

Guidelines:  Where  the  governing  body's  participa- 
tion with  quality  improvement  issues  is  not  direct 
a  designated  committee  of  the  senior  management 
of  the  managed  care  organization  is  responsible 
[A  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for 
Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States.  Medic- 
aid Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration, 
July  6.  1993.  Standard  III.  p.  18]. 

The  plan  remains  accountable  for  aU  quality 
assurance  functions,  even  if  certain  functions  are 
delegated  to  other  entities.  When  the  plan  delegates 
any  QA  activities  to  contractors,  there  is  a  written 
description  of  the  activities,  procedures  for  monitor- 
ing and  evaluating  the  implementation  of  these 


functions  and  evidence  of  continuous  and  ongoing 
evaluation  of  delegated  activities  [A  Health  Care 
Quality  Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed 
Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health 
Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993, 
Standard  VIII.  p.  20]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Policy:  the  Governing  Board  of  a  329/550  program 
may  approve  the  partial  delegation  to  management 
or  the  full  delegation  to  management,  Quality  Assur- 
ance activities  involving  Managed  Care  Contracts. 
However,  the  Board,  by  statute,  is  accountable  and 
must  demonstrate  appropriate  stewardship.  [PCER 
Governance  Protocol  IV. 7.] 

NAIC 

An  HMO  must  specify,  as  part  of  its  written  quality 
assurance  program,  any  contractual  arrangements 
for  the  delegation  of  quality  assurance  activities. 
[NAIC.  Health  Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act, 
Model  Regulation  Sendee  -  July  1995.  Section  7] 

The  commissioner  will  hold  the  health 
carrier  responsible  for  monitoring  the  activities  of 
any  entity  with  which  it  contracts  to  perform  quality 
assessment  or  improvement  functions.  The  health 
carrier  remains  responsible  for  ensuring  that  die 
requirements  of  the  act  are  met.  [NAIC,  Quality 
Assessment  and  Improvement  Model  Act,  Model 
Regulation  Sendee  -  July  1996.  Section  10.]  There 
are  comparable  provisions  in  other  models.  [NAIC. 
Draft  Standards,  Managed  Care  Plan  Network 
Adequacy  Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Sections  9  and  7B.] 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


i  n 


II. R.  Delegation  (continued) 


[NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Utilization  Review  Model 
Act,  6/4/96,  Sections  4,  5,  and  6.]  [NAIC,  Health  Care 
Professional  Credentialing  Verification  Model  Act, 
Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1996,  Section  8.] 

JCAHO 

When  the  network  contracts  for  (that  is,  delegates) 
any  function(s)  or  process(es)  addressed  by  stan- 
dards in  this  manual,  the  network  uses  clear  criteria 
and  performance  expectations  to  select  contractors 
(that  is,  delegates);  retains  the  right  to  make  key 
decisions;  actively  oversees  contracted  (that  is,  dele- 
gated) activity(ies)  using  clear  criteria  and  perfor- 
mance expectations;  periodical!)  collaborates  with 
the  contractor  (that  is,  delegate)  to  coordinate  activi- 
ties; and  maintains  evidence  that  the  contractor(s) 
(that  is,  delegate[s])  complies  with  applicable 
standards  in  this  manual  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Leadership, 
LD.5,  LD.5.1,  LD.5.2,  LD.5.3,  LD.3.4,  and  LD.3.5]. 

NCQA 

If  the  MCO  delegates  any  QI  activities  to  contrac- 
tors, there  is  evidence  of  oversight,  including  a  writ- 
ten description  of  delegated  activities,  the  delegate's 
accountability  for  these  activities,  the  frequency 
of  reporting  to  the  MCO,  and  the  process  by  which 
delegation  will  be  evaluated  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  Quality  Management  and  Improve- 
ment, 1996,  QI  12.0-12.2.2]. 

If  the  MCO  delegates  any  UM  activities  to 
contractors,  there  is  evidence  of  oversight  of  the 
contracted  activity,  including  a  written  description 
of  delegated  activities,  the  delegate's  accountability 
for  these  activities,  the  frequency  of  reporting  to 
the  MCO,  and  the  process  by  which  delegation  will 
be  evaluated  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
I  tilization  Management,  1996,  UM  9.0-9.2.2]. 

If  the  MCO  delegates  any  credentialing  activi- 
ties to  contractors,  there  is  evidence  of  oversight  of 
the  contracted  activity,  including  a  written  descrip- 


tion of  delegated  activities  and  the  delegate's 
accountability  for  these  activities  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  Credentialing,  1996,  CR  15.0-15.3]. 

The  MCO  monitors  the  effectiveness  of  the  del- 
egate's credentialing  and  reappointment  or  recertifi- 
cation  processes  at  least  annually  [NCQA  Standards 
for  Accreditation,  Credentialing,  1996,  CR  15.0-15.3]. 

If  the  MCO  delegates  any  member  service 
activities  to  contractors,  there  is  evidence  of  over- 
sight of  the  contracted  activity,  including  a  written 
description  of  the  delegated  activities,  the  delegate's 
accountability  for  these  activities,  the  frequency  of 
reporting  complaints  and  grievances  and  member 
survey  data  to  the  MCO,  and  the  process  by  which 
the  delegated  activity  will  be  evaluated  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Members'  Rights  and 
Responsibilities,  1996,  RR  9.0-9.2.2]. 

URAC 

The  Network  shall  retain  responsibility 
for  all  administrative  and  medical  management 
services  or  programs  delegated  or  subcontracted 
to  other  organizations  by  executing  service 
agreements  that: 

•  establish  appropriate  accountability  and 
oversight  mechanisms; 

•  ensure  compliance  with  applicable  URAC 
Standards  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  NM  18.0,  18.1  and  18.2). 

The  \ctwoik  shall  maintain  qualification 
and  performance  standards  for  all  clinical  review 
subvendor  relationships  that  are  consistent  with 
URAC  Standards  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  UM  12.0). 

The  Network  shall  maintain  management  con- 
trol and  oversight  of  all  credentialing  delegated  or 
subcontracted  to  another  organization  to  include: 

•  a  comprehensive  review  of  the  delegate/contrac- 
tor's credentialing  program  before  the  program 
is  delegated  or  contracted; 


Blue  Cross  and  Uluc  Shield  Association 


I  I  I 


I 

II.R.  Delegation  (continued) 


•  periodic  reports  of  credentialing  activities  by 
the  delegate/contractor,  or  periodic  audits  of  the 
delegate/contractor's  credentialing  activities  by 
the  Network; 

•  contractual  agreement  between  the  Network 
and  the  delegate/contractor  that  specifies  the 
obligation  to  maintain  Network  and  URAC  stan- 
dards for  credentialing,  and  the  Network's  right 
to  resume  credentialing  should  the  delegate/ 
contractor  fail  to  do  so  (National  Network  Accred- 
itation Standards,  April  1996,  PC  9.0  to  PC  9.3). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  If  the  plan  contracts  with  another  entity 
to  conduct  quality  assurance  activities,  the  plan 
has  review  and  reporting  requirements  developed 
and  implemented  to  ensure  that  the  organization 
contracting  with  the  plan  is  fulfilling  all  delegated 
quality  assurance  responsibilities  [Chapter  4685, 
Department  of  Health,  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations,  4685.1110,  Subp.6]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  If  the  plan  delegates  certain  functions 
of  the  quality  assurance  program  to  other  organiza- 
tions, the  governing  body  retains  ultimate  responsi- 
bility for  the  quality  of  medical  care  rendered  to 
its  enrollees  and  assesses  that  such  care  is  subject 
to  ongoing  quality  assurance  review  [Procedural, 
(ODH)]. 

The  plan's  governing  body  receives  regular 
reports  on  activities  undertaken,  findings,  recom- 
mendations and  results  of  actions  taken  by  the 
delegated  entity.  A  representative  of  the  plan  partici- 
pates in  the  delegated  entity's  quality  assurance 
activities  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  is  accountable  for  all  quality 
assurance  program  activities,  including  those 
delegated  to  other  entities  [Ohio  Administrative 
Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-071(1)]. 


In  cases  where  quality  assurance  activities 
are  delegated,  there  is  evidence  including:  a  written 
description  of  the  delegated  activity;  the  delegate' 
accountability  for  the  activities,  the  frequency  of 
reporting  to  the  plan  (subject  to  prior  approval  by 
ODHS),  the  plan's  procedures  for  monitoring  the 
delegated  activities  and  for  verifying  the  actual 
quality  of  care  (subject  to  prior  approval  by  ODHS), 
and  evidence  of  continuous  evaluation  of  the 
delegated  activities  by  the  plan  [Ohio  Administrative 
Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-071  (I)(l)(2)(3)]. 

In  cases  where  credentialing  activities  are 
delegated,  there  is  a  written  description  of  the  dele- 
gated activities  and  the  delegate's  accountability  for 
these  activities.  The  plan  monitors  the  effectiveness 
of  the  credentialing  and  recredentialing  process 
and  retains  the  right  to  approve  new  providers 
and  to  terminate  or  suspend  individual  providers 
[Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-071 
(D(8)(a)(b)]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  The  plan  is  fully  responsible  for  the 
clinical  quality  of  care  and  quality  of  services 
and,  when  delegating  functions,  the  plan  remains 
responsible  for  providing  clear  evidence  that  ser- 
vices are  of  high  quality  and  at  all  times  meet  the 
standards  of  the  plan,  as  well  as  the  standards  of 
the  state.  The  plan  must  be  able  to  demonstrate 
that  the  activity  remains  under  the  oversight  of  its 
quality  assurance  program  and  that  performance 
is  regularly  reported  to  the  plan's  board  of  directors 
[Commonwealth  of  Pennsylvania,  Department  of 
Health,  HMO  Technical  Assistance  Advisory  94-1, 
HMO  Oversight  of  Delegated  Activities]. 

Also,  see  NCQA  Standards  and  Integrated 
Delivering  System  Statement  of  Policy. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


145 


U.S.  Provider  Contracts 


Medicare 

Regulation:  The  HMO  or  CMP  retains  respon- 
sibility whenever  it  arranges  for  another  entity  to 
furnish  specified  services  to  Medicare  enrollees 
of  the  HMO  or  CMP  [42  CFR  417.401]. 

There  are  written  agreements  executed 
between  the  plan  and  another  entity  in  which  the 
other  entity  agrees  to  furnish  specified  services  to 
Medicare  enrollees  of  the  plan,  but  the  plan  retains 
responsibility  for  those  services  [42  CFR  417.401]. 

The  plan  does  not  have  any  agents  or  man- 
agement staff  or  persons  with  ownership  or  control 
interests  who  have  been  convicted  of  criminal 
offenses  related  to  their  involvement  in  Medicaid, 
Medicare,  or  social  service  programs  [42  CFR 
417.412(b)]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Statute:  Contracts  between  the  plan  and  health 
professionals  for  the  provision  of  basic  and  supple- 
mental services  shall  include  provisions  established 
as  the  Secretary  requires  to  ensure  the  delivery  of 
quality  health  care  services  and  sound  fiscal  man- 
agement [Title  XI II  of  the  Public  Health  Service  Act, 
Section  1301(b)(3)(C)&(D)]. 

Medicaid 

Regulation:  No  subcontract  terminates  the  legal 
responsibility  of  the  plan  to  carry  out  its  required 
activities  [42  CFR  434.6(c)]. 

Guidelines:  Contracts  specify  that  hospitals  and 
other  contractors  will  allow  the  plan  access  to  the 
medical  records  of  its  members  [A  Health  Care 


Quality  Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed 
Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health 
Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993, 
Standard  VII,  p.  20]. 

The  plan  includes  in  all  its  provider  contracts, 
for  both  physician  and  non-physician  providers, 
a  requirement  securing  cooperation  with  the  quality 
assurance  program  [A  Health  Care  Quality  Improve- 
ment System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care:  A  Guide 
for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard  VII.B,  p.  20]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Policy:  BPHC  funded  organizations  are  required 
to  have  current  signed  contracts  or  memoranda 
of  understanding  with  outside  organizations  as 
described  in  the  grant  application,  including  those 
outside  arrangements  for  providing  mandated  ser- 
vices to  sliding  fee  and  other  patients.  Contractors 
are  routinely  evaluated  to  assure  compliance.  Man- 
dated services  at  community  and  migrant  health 
centers  must  be  provided  on  a  discounted  basis 
to  those  below  200%  of  the  poverty  level.  Health 
Care  for  The  Homeless  programs  cannot  impose 
charges  on  individuals  whose  income  is  below  the 
Federal  Poverty  Level.  If  a  service  is  being  provided 
through  referral  rather  than  directly,  it  should 
either  be  paid  for  by  the  grantee  or  by  an  agency 
which  provides  for  a  similar  discounting  process. 
If  the  latter  method  is  relied  upon,  the  grantee 
should  ensure  that  the  services  are  available. 
[PCER  Administration  Protocol  VII.O..VH.la.] 

Guidance:  BPHC  funded  organizations  are 
expected  (or  in  some  instances,  required  by  law) 
to  coordinate  their  activities  with  those  of  other 


Blue  Cross  iind  Blue-  Shield  \ssnc  ialic>n 


146 


U.S.  Provider  Contracts  (continued) 


agencies  serving  the  same  patient  popnlation. 
In  addition,  the  advent  of  mandated  managed  care 
has  required  more  and  more  of  these  agencies  to 
enter  into  horizontal  and  vertical  networks  to  both 
facilitate  continuity  of  care  for  their  patients  and 
ongoing  financial  participation  in  the  delivery  of 
health  care  to  the  target  population. 

The  extent  of  participation  will  very  substan- 
tially depending  on  the  size  of  the  organization,  the 
richness  of  the  social  service  providers  in  the  com- 
munity, and  the  development  of  managed  care  in 
the  state.  In  some  instances,  very  large  organiza- 
tions will  actually  opt  to  include  additional  service 
delivery  systems  within  their  own  corporate  system, 
taking  some  portion  of  the  networking  task  in- 
house. 

Policy:  Special  provisions  pertain  to  contract 
services  for  pharmacy,  laboratory,  and  radiology, 
including:  documentation  of  proper  licensure  and 
compliance  with  federal,  state,  and  local  regula- 
tions; licensed  and  certified  personnel,  as  appropri- 
ate; listing  of  services  and  related  fees;  maintenance 
of  files  and  charts  for  a  reasonable  time  period;  slid- 
ing fee  discounts;  and  satisfaction  with  timeliness 
and  quality  of  services  and  posting  of  results  in 
medical  records.  [PCER  Clinical  Protocol  III.B6, 
V.M.1..V.0.2.] 

NAIC 

A  health  carrier  must  notify  participating  providers 
of  their  responsibilities  with  respect  to  the  health 
carrier's  applicable  administrative  polices  and 
programs,  including  its  quality  assessment  and 
improvement  programs.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards, 
Managed  Care  Plan  Network  Adequacy  Model  Act, 
6/2/96,  Section  6H.]  A  health  carrier  must  also 
require  a  provider  to  make  health  records  available 
to  appropriate  state  and  federal  authorities  involved 
in  assessing  the  quality  of  care.  [NAIC,  Draft  Stan- 
dards, Managed  Care  Plan  Network  Adequacy  Model 
Act,  6/2/96,  Section  6R.]  Intermediaries  and  partici- 
pating providers  with  whom  they  contract  must 


comply  with  all  the  applicable  requirements  speci- 
fied in  the  act  for  the  relationship  between  health 
carriers  and  participating  providers.  [NAIC,  Draft 
Standards,  Managed  Care  Plan  Network  Adequacj 
Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Section  7A.] 

A  health  carrier  must  provide  participating 
providers  the  opportunity  to  participate  in  develop- 
ing, implementing,  and  evaluating  the  quality 
improvement  system.  [NAIC,  Quality  Assessment 
and  Improvement  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation 
Service  -  July  1996,  Section  6D.] 

JCAHO 

When  the  network  contracts  for  (that  is,  delegates) 
any  function(s)  or  process(es)  addressed  by  stan- 
dards in  this  manual,  the  network  uses  clear  criteria 
and  performance  expectations  to  select  contractors 
(that  is,  delegates);  retains  the  right  to  make  key 
decisions;  actively  oversees  contracted  (that  is,  dele- 
gated) activity(ies)  using  clear  criteria  and  perfor- 
mance expectations;  periodically  collaborates  with 
the  contractor  (that  is,  delegate)  to  coordinate  activi- 
ties; and  maintains  evidence  that  the  contractor(s) 
(that  is,  delegate[s])  complies  with  applicable 
standards  in  this  manual  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Leadership, 
LD.3,  LD.5.1,  LD.5.2,  LD.5.5,  LD.3.4,  and  LD.5.5]. 

IMCQA 

Requirements  for  participation  in  QI  activities 
are  incorporated  into  all  provider  contracts  and 
employment  agreements.  Contracts  specify  that  the 
MCO  has  access  to  the  medical  records  of  its  mem- 
bers [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Quality 
Management  and  Improvement,  1996,  QI.4.0]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


147 


U.S.  Provider  Contracts  (continued) 


URAC 

The  Network  shall  have  written  service  agreements 
with  providers  that: 

•  provide  definitions  for  all  terms  used  in  the 
agreement; 

•  specify  the  conditions  for  participation; 

•  specify  the  obligations  and  responsibilities 
of  both  parties; 

•  specify  any  provider  obligations  to  participate  in 
the  Network's  medical  management,  sanctions, 
member  grievance,  and  other  specified  programs; 

•  provide  access  to  member  medical  records; 

•  describe  the  health  care  services  to  be  provided 
and  any  restrictions; 

•  describe  the  requirements  for  claims  submission 
and  specify  any  limitation  against  member 
billing; 

•  describe  the  provider  reimbursement  method- 
ology and  fees; 

•  describe  the  provider  complaint,  grievance  and 
appeal  mechanism; 

•  specify  the  term  of  the  contract; 

•  specify  the  procedures  for  terminating  the 
contract; 

•  specify  each  party's  obligation  to  maintain  the 
confidentiality  of  member  health  information; 

•  provide  a  member  nondiscrimination  provision 
(National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  NM  17.0  to  NM  17.15). 

Minnesota 

Medicaid:  Subcontracts  include  provisions  for  the 
Department  of  Human  Services  to  evaluate  through 
inspection  or  other  means  the  quality,  appropriate- 
ness and  timeliness  of  services  performed  by  the 
subcontractor  and  the  plan  has  similar  assurances 
to  monitor  the  performance  of  its  subcontractors 
[Request  for  Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/General 
Assistance  Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota 
Senior  Health  Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan 
Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 


Ohio 

All  plans:  Provider  contracts  include  provisions 
for  provider  responsibilities  to  participate  in  quality 
assurance,  utilization  review,  credentialing  and  the 
grievance  resolution  processes  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  The  execution  of  a  subcontract  does 
not  terminate  the  plan's  legal  responsibility  to 
assure  that  all  of  the  plan's  activities  and  obligations 
are  carried  out  in  accordance  with  applicable 
requirements  and  the  MCP  provider  agreement 
[Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-05 
(A)(4)]. 

All  subcontractors  agree  to  comply  with 
the  provisions  for  record  keeping  and  auditing  and 
fulfill  the  requirements  of  all  laws,  regulations  and 
contractual  obligations  of  the  plan  [Ohio  Adminis- 
trative Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-05(D)(l)(4)]. 

There  is  a  requirement  securing  cooperation 
with  the  MCP's  quality  improvement  program  in 
all  its  provider  subcontracts  for  physician  and  non- 
physician  providers  [Ohio  Administrative  Code, 
Chapter  5101:3-26-05(D)(18)]. 

Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  All  provider  contracts  are  reviewed  by 
the  Department  of  Health. 

Medicaid:  Contracts  and  subcontracts  entered  into 
by  the  plan  do  not  terminate  the  plan's  obligations 
under  the  agreement  [Pennsylvania  Department  of 
Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agreement,  Section  12, 
Contracts  and  Subcontracts,  12.1]. 


Blue  Crovs  ,ind  llluc  Shield  Assnciiitirm 


148 


II.T.  Information  Systems  Adequacy 


Medicare 

Regulation:  The  plan  maintains  a  health  (including 
medical)  record  keeping  system  through  which 
pertinent  information  relating  to  the  health  care  of 
its  Medicare  enrollees  is  accumulated  and  is  readily 
available  to  appropriate  individuals  [42  CFR 
417.416(e)(2)]. 

Policy:  The  information  system  is  able  to  collect 
individual  patient  care  data  related  to  some  or  all 
of  the  following:  health  professional,  member, 
diagnosis,  procedure,  date  and  location  of  service. 
The  system  has  the  capability  to  aggregate  data 
to  identify  patterns  of  suspected  aberrant  care 
[Manual  for  Federally  Qualified  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations  (Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act), 
Transmittal  No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.4.A]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Regulation:  The  plan  has  effective  procedures  to 
develop,  compile,  evaluate  and  report  to  HCFA,  to 
its  enrollees,  and  to  the  general  public,  at  the  time 
and  in  the  manner  that  HCFA  requires,  and  while 
safeguarding  the  confidentiality  of  the  doctor-patient 
relationship,  statistics  and  other  information  with 
respect  to:  the  cost  of  operation;  the  patterns  of 
utilization  of  its  services;  the  availability,  accessi- 
bility, and  acceptability  of  its  services;  developments 
in  the  health  status  of  its  enrollees;  information 
demonstrating  that  the  plan  has  a  fiscally  sound 
operation;  and  other  matters  that  HCFA  may 
require  [42  CFR  417.126(a)]. 

The  plan  has  administrative  and  managerial 
arrangements  satisfactory  to  HCFA,  as  demon- 
strated in  part  by  personnel  and  systems  sufficient 
for  the  plan  to  organize,  plan,  control,  and  evaluate 
the  financial,  marketing,  health  services,  quality 


assurance  program,  administrative  and  manage- 
ment aspects  of  the  plan  [42  CFR  417.124(a)(2)]. 

Policy:  The  information  system  is  able  to  collect 
individual  patient  care  data  related  to  health  profes- 
sional, member,  diagnosis,  procedure,  date  and 
location  of  service.  The  system  has  the  capability  to 
aggregate  data  to  identify  individual  instances  and 
patterns  of  suspected  aberrant  care  [Manual  for  Fed- 
erally Qualified  Health  Maintenance  Organizations 
(Title  13,  Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal 
No.  1,  November  1989,  4201.4.A]. 

The  plan  maintains  data  from  multiple  sources 
such  as  medical  records;  enrollee  complaints;  feed- 
back from  physicians,  other  health  professionals, 
providers  and  staff;  clinical  and  non-clinical  study 
results;  referrals  through  the  utilization  review  sys- 
tem; and  potential  problem  areas  identified  through 
the  information  system  [Manual  for  Federally 
Qualified  Health  Maintenance  Organizations  (Title 
13,  Public  Health  Service  Act),  Transmittal  No.  1, 
November  1989,  4201.4.B]. 

Medicaid 

Guidelines:  Methods  and  frequency  of  data 
collection  are  appropriate  and  sufficient  to  detect 
need  for  program  change  [A  Health  Care  Quality 
Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care: 
A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care 
Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard 
II.B.3,  p.  16]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Program  Expectation:  The  Management  Informa- 
tion System  must  be  adequate  to  provide  informa- 
tion needed  at  given  points  in  time  and  over  time, 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


149 


Il.T.  Information  Systems  Adequacy  (continued) 


including  utilization  data  by  patient  and  program 
characteristics  and  provider.  In  addition  it  must 
provide  financial  and  accounting  data  necessary  for 
intelligent  management  of  the  organization.  It  must 
also  provide  a  reasonable  amount  of  security  and 
safety  with  provisions  for  back-up.  [PCER  Manage- 
ment Information  Systems  Protocol  1II.A.2 
III.B.5...IH.B13] 

NAIC 

A  health  maintenance  organization  is  required  to 
have  a  patient  record  system  adequate  for  evaluat- 
ing the  quality  of  the  care  provided  to  enrollees.  The 
HMO  Model  Act  does  not  specify  criteria  to  be  used 
to  assess  the  effectiveness  of  the  information  system. 
[NAIC,  Health  Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act, 
Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1995,  Section  7.] 

In  general  the  health  plan  standards  do  not 
contain  criteria  for  assessing  the  effectiveness  of 
a  health  carrier's  information  system  in  supporting 
the  data  collection,  analysis,  and  dissemination 
activities  of  the  carrier's  quality  improvement 
program.  However,  a  health  carrier  is  required  by 
the  provisions  of  several  models  to  have  in  place 
an  adequate  information  system.  The  Quality 
Assessment  and  Improvement  Model  Act  specifies 
that  a  health  carrier  that  provides  managed  care 
plans  must  have  the  infrastructure  and  disclosure 
systems  necessary  to  measure  the  quality  of  services 
provided  to  covered  persons.  [NAIC,  Quality  Assess- 
ment and  Improvement  Model  Act,  Model  Regula- 
tion Service  -  July  1996,  Section  5.]  It  also  requires 
a  health  carrier  that  issues  a  closed  plan  to  have  an 
internal  system  capable  of  collecting  and  analyzing 
the  necessary  information  to  improve  the  quality  of 
care.  [NAIC,  Quality  Assessment  and  Improvement 
Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1996, 
Section  8.] 

A  health  carrier  must  have  a  data  system 
sufficient  to  support  its  utilization  review  activities 
and  generate  management  reports  that  will  enable 


the  carrier  to  monitor  and  manage  health  care  ser- 
vices effectively.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards,  Utilization 
Review  Model  Act,  6/4/96,  Section  8E.] 

The  NAIC  may  develop  a  Data  Reporting 
Model  Act  that  could  specify  criteria  for  assessing 
the  effectiveness  of  a  plan's  information  system. 

JCAHO 

Information  management  processes  are  planned 
and  designed  to  meet  the  network's  internal  and 
external  information  needs  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Management 
of  Information,  IM.l]. 

Internal  and  external  information  manage- 
ment processes  are  appropriate  to  the  network's  size 
and  complexity  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Managemen  t  of  Informa- 
tion, IM.1.1]. 

Appropriate  individuals  participate  in 
assessing,  selecting,  integrating,  and  using  efficient 
information  management  systems  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Managemen  t  of  Information,  IM.1.2]. 

The  network  has  adequate  capability  to 
integrate  and  interpret  data  and  information  from 
various  sources  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Management  of  Inform- 
ation, IM.5]. 

The  network  defines,  captures,  analyzes, 
transmits,  and  reports  aggregated  data  and  informa- 
tion that  supports  managerial  decisions,  operations, 
performance  improvement  activities,  and  member 
care  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health 
Care  Networks,  Management  of  Information,  IM.7]. 

The  network  facilitates  timely  communication 
of  information  among  components  and  practitioner 
sites  to  support  continuity  of  care  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Continuum  of  Care,  CC.5]. 


Blue  Cross  .mil  Blue  Shield  Association 


no 


II.T.  Information  Systems  Adequacy  (continued) 


NCQA 

No  standard  specified. 
URAC 

The  Network  shall  implement  an  automated  man- 
agement information  system  capable  of: 

•  capturing  basic  demographic,  cost,  diagnostic, 
and  service  data  from  claims  and  encounter 
forms; 

•  providing  reports  that  assist  the  Network  to 
manage  cost,  utilization,  and  quality; 

•  supporting  its  utilization  management,  quality 
management,  and  credentialing  programs 
{National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  NM  14.0  to  NM  14.3). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  The  data  collection  and  reporting  system 
supports  the  information  needs  of  the  quality  assur- 
ance program  activities  [Chapter  4685,  Department 
of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1110,  Subp.7]. 

The  plan  establishes  and  maintains  proce- 
dures to  develop,  compile,  evaluate,  and  report 
statistics  which  include  the  collection  and  mainte- 
nance of  at  least  the  following  data: 

•  operational  statistics  sufficient  to  meet  state 
requirements  relating  to  annual  financial  reports; 

•  gross  utilization  aggregates,  including  hospital 
discharges,  surgical  hospital  discharges,  hospital 
bed  days,  outpatient  visits,  laboratory  tests 

and  x-rays; 

•  demographic  characteristics,  including 
the  age  and  sex  of  enrollees; 

•  disease-specific  and  age-specific  mortality 
rates;  and 

•  enrollment  statistics  [Chapter  4685,  Department 
of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1200]. 


Ohio 

All  plans:  An  appropriate  management  information 
system  is  developed  and  implemented  which  is 
capable  of  providing  clinical  and  administrative 
information  necessary  to  evaluate  the  quality, 
availability,  and  accessibility  of  services  provided 
in  addition  to  the  overall  cost  and  effectiveness  of 
the  plan's  operations  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

The  management  information  system  should 
provide,  at  a  minimum: 

•  specification  of  the  data  collected  to  evaluate  the 
accessibility  and  availability  of  services  and  how 
data  can  be  used  to  make  a  valid  assessment; 

•  specification  of  the  data  collected  regarding  cost 
and  effectiveness  of  services; 

•  assurances  that  the  data  needed  by  quality 
assurance  and  utilization  review  committees  are 
collected,  valid  and  available;  and 

•  demonstration  that  the  system  is  capable  of  gen- 
erating enrollment  and  utilization  data  required 
by  the  state  [Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  maintains  a  management  infor- 
mation system  capable  of  reporting  electronically 
all  elements  in  the  minimum  Data  Set  [SFY  1997 
RFP  Section  VI  (E),  p.  29]. 

Pennsylvania 

Medicaid:  The  plan  maintains  a  system  that  satis- 
fies HCFA  Medicaid  Management  Information 
System  (MM IS)  certification  standards  and  System 
Performance  Review  (SPR)  requirements  [Pennsyl- 
vania Department  of  Public  Welfare,  Operating 
Agreement,  Section  10,  Payment  of  Providers,  10.2]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


151 


II.U.  Confidentiality 


Medicare 

Regulation:  The  plan  agrees  to  comply  with  the 
requirements  of  the  Privacy  Act  [42  CFR  417.486(c)] 
and  to  meet  the  confidentiality  requirements  for 
medical  records  [42  CFR  417.486(d)]. 

The  plan  complies  with  title  VI  of  the  Civil 
Rights  Act  of  1964,  section  504  of  the  Rehabilitation 
Act  of  1973  and  the  Age  Discrimination  Act  of  1975 
[42  CFR  417.472(e)]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Statute:  There  are  safeguards  concerning  the 
confidentiality  of  the  doctor-patient  relationship 
[Title  XIII  of  the  Public  Health  Service  Act,  Section 
1501(c)(8)]. 

Regulation:  Confidentiality  of  the  health  and 
medical  records  of  enrollees  is  ensured  [42  CFR 
417.106(d)]. 

Medicaid 

Regulation:  Contractors  safeguard  information 
about  recipients  [42  CFR  434.6(a)(8)]. 

Guidelines:  The  plan  acts  to  ensure  that  the 
confidentiality  of  specified  patient  information  and 
records  is  protected,  including:  (1)  written  policies 
on  confidentiality;  (2)  assurances  that  patient  care 
offices  have  implemented  mechanisms  that  guard 
against  the  unauthorized  or  inadvertent  disclosure 
of  confidential  information;  (3)  the  plan  holds  confi- 
dential all  information  obtained  by  its  personnel 
about  enrollees  related  to  their  care  and  treatment; 
(4)  any  release  of  information  in  response  to  a  court 
order  is  reported  to  the  patient  in  a  timely  manner; 
and  (5)  enrollee  records  may  be  disclosed  to  quali- 
fied personnel  for  the  purpose  of  conducting  scien- 


tific research,  but  such  reports  cannot  disclose 
participant  identity  in  any  manner  [A  Health  Care 
Quality  Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed 
Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health 
Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993, 
Standard  X.I,  p.  26-27]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Program  Expectation:  Confidentiality  of  the  health 
and  patient  records  of  patients  served  in  BPHC 
funded  programs  is  assured  in  compliance  with 
Title  XII  of  the  Public  Health  Service  Act,  Section 
1301  (c)(8). 

Guidance:  BPHC  funded  programs  must  have 
written  protocols  in  place  and  included  in  patient 
enrollment  documents  that  assure  patient  health 
status  and  records  confidentiality.  [PCER  Clinical 
Protocol  III.A] 

NAIC 

A  health  maintenance  organization  must  specify  its 
confidentiality  policy  and  procedures  in  its  written 
quality  assurance  plan.  [NAIC,  Health  Maintenance 
Organization  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  - 
July  1995,  Section  7]  In  addition  the  HMO  Model 
Act  contains  a  provision  requiring  a  health  mainte- 
nance organization  to  keep  confidential  any  data 
or  information  pertaining  to  the  diagnosis,  treat- 
ment, or  health  of  an  enrollee  or  applicant,  and 
prohibiting  an  HMO  from  disclosing  such  informa- 
tion except  under  specified  conditions.  [NAIC, 
Health  Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act, 
Model  Regulation  Service  -  July  1995,  Section  28.] 

The  Quality  Assessment  and  Improvement 
Model  Act  specifies  that  data  or  information  pertain- 
ing to  the  diagnosis,  treatment  or  health  of  a  cov- 
ered person  is  confidential  and  that  a  health  carrier 


Blue  Cross  mid  Blue  Shield  tssoriiitinn 


152 


II.U.  Confidentiality  (continued) 


may  not  disclose  such  information  unless  disclosure 
is  necessary  to  carry  out  the  purposes  of  the  quality 
model  act  and  is  allowed  by  state  law;  or  unless 
the  covered  person  has  consented  to  disclosure; 
or  unless  other  specific  exceptions  specified  in  the 
quality  model  obtain.  [NAIC,  Quality  Assessment 
and  Improvement  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation 
Service  -  July  1996,  Section  9.]  These  provisions  of 
the  quality  model  are  based  on  the  NAIC's  Health 
Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act.  [NAIC,  Health 
Maintenance  Organization  Model  Act,  Model  Regu- 
lation Service  -  July  1995,  Section  28.] 

A  health  carrier  must  certify  annually  to  the 
commissioner  that  its  utilization  review  program, 
or  that  of  any  designee,  complies  with  all  applicable 
state  and  federal  law  establishing  confidentiality 
and  reporting  requirements.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards, 
Utilization  Review  Model  Act,  6/4/96,  Section  13.] 

A  health  carrier  must  require  a  provider  to 
comply  with  the  applicable  state  and  federal  laws 
related  to  the  confidentiality  of  medical  or  health 
records.  A  health  carrier  must  notify  participating 
providers  of  their  responsibilities  with  respect  to 
applicable  administrative  policies  and  programs, 
including  confidentiality  requirements.  Intermedi- 
aries must  impose  the  same  requirement  on 
providers  with  whom  they  contract.  [NAIC,  Draft 
Standards,  Managed  Care  Plan  Network  Adequacy 
Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Sections  6K,  6H,  and  7A.] 

A  health  carrier  may  not  disclose  to  a  health 
care  professional  certain  information  obtained  in 
the  course  of  the  carrier's  credentialing  verification 
process  if  such  disclosure  is  prohibited  by  law. 
[NAIC,  Health  Care  Professional  Credentialing 
Verification  Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  - 
July  1996,  Section  7B.] 

In  addition  to  the  provisions  of  the  models  and 
draft  standards  described  above,  the  NAIC  is  devel- 
oping a  Health  Information  Confidentiality  Model 
Act.  This  draft  model  is  in  a  preliminary  stage.  It 
establishes  standards  for  the  collection,  use,  and 


disclosure  of  information  gathered  by  health  carri- 
ers. The  act  also  limits  the  circumstances  under 
which  a  health  carrier  may  disclose  personal  or 
privileged  information.  The  act  requires  a  health 
carrier  to  provide  written  notice  of  its  information 
practices  to  all  applicants  and  covered  persons. 
The  act  also  requires  health  carriers  to  provide  an 
individual  with  access  to  recorded  personal  infor- 
mation about  them.  It  specifies  a  procedure  for 
an  individual  to  request  a  health  carrier  to  amend 
the  individual's  recorded  information. 

JCAHO 

The  information  management  processes  in  the 
network  and  its  components  protect  confidentiality, 
security,  and  integrity  of  information  [1996  Joint 
Commission  standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Management  of  Information,  IM.2]. 

The  network  and  its  components  determine 
appropriate  levels  of  security  and  confidentiality 
of  data  and  information  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Management 
of  Information,  IM.2.1]. 

Data  can  be  easily  retrieved  in  a  timely  man- 
ner without  compromising  security  and  confiden- 
tiality [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health 
Care  Networks,  Management  of  Information,  IM.2.2] 

The  network  and  its  components  effectively 
safeguard  records  and  information  against  loss, 
destruction,  tampering,  and  unauthorized  access 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Management  of  Information,  IM.2. 5]. 

The  network  protects  the  confidentiality 
of  member  information  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights, 
Responsibilities,  and  Ethics,  RI.5]. 

The  network  protects  member  privacy  and 
security  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for 
Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities, 
and  Ethics,  RI.3.2]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


155 


II.U.  Confidentiality  (continued) 


IMCQA 

The  MCO  acts  to  ensure  that  confidentiality 
of  specified  patient  information  and  records  is 
protected  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Members'  Rights  and  Responsibilities,  1996,  RR  7.0]. 

The  MCO  has  written  confidentiality  policies 
and  procedures  [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation, 
Members'  Rights  and  Responsibilities,  1996,  RR  7.1). 

The  MCO  ensures  that  patient  care  offices 
have  implemented  mechanisms  that  guard  against 
unauthorized  or  inadvertent  disclosure  of  confiden- 
tial information  to  persons  inside  and  outside  the 
MCO  who  should  not  have  access  to  such  informa- 
tion [NCQA  Standards  for  Accreditation,  Members' 
Rights  and  Responsibilities,  1996,  RR  7.2]. 

Patients  are  afforded  the  opportunity  to 
approve  or  refuse  the  release  of  identifiable  per- 
sonal information  by  the  MCO,  except  when  such 
release  is  required  by  law  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  Members'  Rights  and  Responsibilities, 
1996,  RR  7.5]. 

URAC 

Contracts  between  the  Network  and  participating 
providers  shall  specify  obligations  to  maintain 
the  confidentiality  of  member  health  information 
(NM  17.12). 

The  Network's  provider  disciplinary  program 
shall  specify  confidentiality  requirements  (NM  19.6). 

The  Network/UMO  shall  have  written 
policies  and  procedures  for  assuring  that  patient- 
specific  information  obtained  during  the  UM 
process  will  be: 

•  kept  confidential  in  accordance  with  applicable 
federal  and  state  laws; 

•  limited  to  the  information  necessary  to 
adjudicate  the  claim; 

•  used  solely  for  purposes  of  UM,  QM,  discharge 
planning  and  case  management; 


•  shared  only  with  those  agencies  who  have 
authority  to  receive  such  information  (National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996, 
UM  1.0  to  UM  1.4). 

If  provider-specific  data  is  to  be  released  to 
the  public,  the  Network/UMO  shall  have  policies 
and  procedures  for  exercising  due  care  in  compiling 
and  releasing  such  data  that  address: 

•  how  data  are  obtained  using  valid  methodology 
and  verified  for  accuracy; 

•  how  the  subjects  of  disclosures  are  informed 
of  the  disclosures; 

•  how  potential  users  of  the  information  are 
informed  about  the  uses  and  limitations  of 
the  data; 

•  how  clinical  determinations  reflect  explicit 
clinical  review  criteria  and  represent  final 
determination  processes; 

•  how  the  release  of  data  complies  with  applicable 
confidentiality  laws  and  regulations  (National 
Network  Accreditation  Standards,  April  1996, 
UM  2.0  to  UM  2.5). 

The  Network  Credentialing  Plan  shall  contain 
information  about  confidentiality  and  conflict  of 
interest  (National  Network  Accreditation  Standards, 
April  1996,  PC  5.15). 

The  Network  shall  establish  and  implement 
a  policy  on  confidentiality  of  member  health 
information  that: 

•  assures  compliance  with  applicable  federal  and 
state  laws; 

•  assures  that  confidential  information  will  be 
provided  only  to  authorized  agents  and  appro- 
priate regulatory  authorities; 

•  address  Network  employee,  provider,  committee 
member,  and  board  member  responsibility  for 
maintaining  the  confidentiality  of  member  health 
information; 

•  allows  such  information  to  be  used  to  support 
the  Network's  medical  management  programs; 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


154 


II.U.  Confidentiality  (continued) 


•  provides  procedures  for  storage,  security,  access, 
retention  and  release  of  confidential  health 
information  {National  Netwoi^k  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  MP  7.0  to  MP  7.5). 

The  Network  shall  require  that  all  staff  and 
members  of  Network  committees  with  access  to 
confidential  health  information  sign  a  confiden- 
tiality agreement  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  MP  8.0  to  8.2). 

The  Network  shall  require  that  all  delegated 
and  contracted  medical  management  programs 
meet  these  confidentiality  standards  (MP  9.0). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  Any  information  pertaining  to  the 
diagnosis,  treatment,  or  health  of  any  enrollee  is 
private  and  is  not  disclosed  to  any  person  except  as 
required  to  carry  out  state  requirements  [Minnesota 
Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health  Maintenance  Organi- 
zations, 62D.14,  Subd.4]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  is  in  full  compliance  with 
the  Minnesota  Government  Data  Practices  Act 
[Request  for  Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/General 
Assistance  Medical  Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota 
Senior  Health  Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan 
Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 

Pursuant  to  state  statutes,  under  certain 
circumstances  the  plan  protects  the  minor  from 
disclosure  of  certain  information  to  parents  if  affir- 
matively requested  by  the  minor  and  it  is  in  the 
best  interest  of  the  minor  [Request  for  Proposals, 
Medical  Assistance/General  Assistance  Medical 
Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior  Health 
Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan  Contracts, 
State  of  Minnesota]. 

The  plan  devises  a  method  in  which  a 
provider  can  designate  on  the  claim  form  those 
services  (e.g.,  family  planning  services  for  children 


and  adults)  which  must  be  treated  as  confidential 
and  should  not  appear  on  the  Explanation  of 
Medical  Benefits  [Request  for  Proposals,  Medical 
Assistance/General  Assistance  Medical  Care, 
MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior  Health  Options, 
Managed  Care  Health  Plan  Contracts,  State  of 
Minnesota]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  The  plan  maintains  a  medical  record 
system  which  ensures  patient  confidentiality 
[Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

The  confidentiality  of  all  grievances  is  retained 
[Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  As  a  condition  of  enrollment,  an 
eligible  individual  or  caretaker  will  be  required  to 
execute  a  limited  waiver  of  any  privilege  of  confi- 
dentiality that  may  exist  as  a  result  of  the  provider- 
patient  relationship  for  the  limited  purpose  of 
authorizing  and  directing  the  plan  to  receive  and 
release  all  medical  records  necessary  to  provide 
continuity  of  medical  care  or  to  administer  the  plan 
[Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-02 
(B)(1)(c)]. 

The  plan/provider  site  has  a  policy  regarding 
the  confidentiality  of  medical  records  which  ensures 
that  records  are  handled  to  preclude  loss,  tamper- 
ing, alteration,  destruction,  and  unauthorized  or 
inadvertent  disclosure  of  information  [Ohio  Admin- 
istrative Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-071  (E)(1)(b)]. 

Information  obtained  about  enrollees  related 
to  their  diagnoses,  treatments,  prognoses  and  med- 
ical and  social  history  is  held  confidentially  and  not 
divulged  without  the  enrollee's  authorization  unless 
it  is  required  by  law,  necessary  to  coordinate  the 
patient's  care  or  necessary  in  compelling  circum- 
stances [Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101: 
3-26-083  (A)(2)]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


155 


[I.U.  Confidentiality  (continued) 


Pennsylvania 

All  plans:  All  information  reviewed  during  the 
external  quality  review  survey  are  held  confiden- 
tially except  for  such  information  which  might  be 
required  to  be  disclosed  to  appropriate  regulatory 
officials  [Invitation  to  Qualify  as  an  Approved  HMO 
Quality  Review  Organization,  Pennsylvania  Depart- 
ment of  Health,  Appendix  II,  External  Assessment 
Process,  Responsibilities  of  Review  Organizations]. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  agrees  to  make  appropriate 
provisions  to  physically  secure  and  safeguard  all 
sensitive  listings,  documents,  and  files  related  to  the 
state  [Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public  Welfare, 
Operating  Agreement,  Section  13,  Records  and 
Reports,  15.8]. 

The  plan  maintains  the  highest  standards 
of  integrity  in  the  performance  of  its  agreement 
with  the  state  find  takes  no  action  in  violation 
of  state  and  federal  laws,  regulations,  or  other 
requirements  that  govern  contracting  with  the 
state  [Pennsylvania  Department  of  Public  Welfare, 
Operating  Agreement,  Contractor  Integrity 
Provisions,  2]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  \ssociation 


156 


II.V.  Cultural  Sensitivity 


Medicare 

Regulation:  Enrollment  is  substantially  repre- 
sentative of  the  general  population  [42  CFR 
417.424(b)(2)]. 

The  plan  complies  with  title  VI  of  the  Civil 
Rights  Act  of  1964,  section  504  of  the  Rehabilitation 
Act  of  1973  and  the  Age  Discrimination  Act  of  1975 
[42  CFR  417.472(e)]. 

Policy:  Marketing  materials  are  available  in  all 
languages  in  which  verbal  marketing  activities  are 
conducted  [Medicare  Health  Maintenance  Organiza- 
tion/Competitive Medical  Plan  Manual,  Transmittal 
No.  8,  January  1992,  2208.1]. 

Federal  Qualification 

Statute:  The  plan  enrolls  persons  who  are  broadly 
representative  of  the  various  age,  social,  and  income 
groups  within  the  area  it  serves  [Title  XIII  of  the 
Public  Health  Service  Act,  Section  1301(c)(3)(A)]. 

Regulation:  Enrollment  is  offered  to  persons  who 
are  broadly  representative  of  the  various  age,  social, 
and  income  groups  within  the  service  area  [42  CFR 
417.124(c)]. 

Medicaid 

Regulation:  The  plan  does  not  discriminate  against 
individuals  eligible  to  be  covered  under  contract,  on 
the  basis  of  health  status  or  need  for  health  services 
[42  CFR  434.25(b)]. 

Guidelines:  Member  information  is  written  in  prose 
that  is  readable  and  easily  understood  and  is  avail- 
able, as  needed  in  the  languages  of  the  major  popu- 
lation groups  served  (those  representing  at  least 


10%  of  a  plan's  membership)  [A  Health  Care  Quality 
Improvement  System  for  Medicaid  Managed  Care: 
A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau,  Health  Care 
Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993,  Standard 
X.H,  p.  26]. 

1115  Waiver  Terms  and  Conditions:  Waivers 
require  health  plans  that  do  not  have  contracts  with 
federally  qualified  health  centers  (FQHCs)  to  make 
available  culturally  sensitive  services,  such  as  trans- 
lators and  training  for  medical  and  administrative 
staff. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Program  Expectation:  BPHC  funded  programs  are 
required  to  provide  access  to  quality  primary  health 
care  and  preventive  services  to  vulnerable  and 
underserved  populations.  These  services  must  be 
provided  within  the  social  and  cultural  context  of 
those  receiving  those  services.  Translation  services 
are  provided  as  appropriate  to  provide  culturally 
sensitive  and  competent  care.  Programs  are 
required  to  comply  with  all  federal  antidiscrimina- 
tion laws.  Patient  complaints  are  received  in  lan- 
guages other  than  English.  Services  provided  to 
patients  are  expected  to  be  culturally  sensitive  and 
linguistically  competent.  Interpreter  services  are 
provided  in  the  following  circumstances  as  appro- 
priate: in  the  health  center,  in  the  hospital,  after 
hours,  and  for  referred  patients.  [PCER  Governance 
Protocol  IV.9,  Clinical  Protocol  IIB.9,  IV.C2,V.3..V.5.] 

The  model  regulation  implementing  the  HMO 
Model  Act  prohibits  a  health  maintenance  organiza- 
tion from  discriminating  against  any  enrollee  or 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


157 


II. V.  Cultural  Sensitivity  (continued) 


applicant  on  the  basis  of  age,  sex,  race,  color,  creed, 
national  origin,  ancestry,  religion,  marital  status, 
or  lawful  occupation  of  the  enrollee.  The  HMO  may, 
however,  set  rates  and  charges  in  accordance  with 
actuarial  data.  [NAIC,  Model  Regulation  to  Imple- 
ment Rules  Regarding  Contracts  and  Services  of 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations,  Model  Regula- 
tion Serv  ice  -  Jan.  1991,  Section  7B.] 

A  health  carrier's  access  plan  must  identify 
its  efforts  to  address  the  needs  of  covered  persons 
with  limited  English  proficiency  and  illiteracy,  with 
diverse  cultural  and  ethnic  backgrounds,  and  with 
physical  and  mental  disabilities.  A  carrier  must  also 
ensure  that  participating  providers  furnish  covered 
benefits  to  all  covered  persons  without  regard  to 
their  enrollment  in  the  plan  as  a  private  purchaser 
or  as  a  participant  in  a  publicly  financed  program 
of  health  care  services.  Intermediaries  must  impose 
the  same  requirement  on  providers  with  whom  they 
contract.  [NAIC,  Draft  Standards.  Managed  Care 
Plan  Network  Adequacy  Model  Act,  6/2/96,  Sections 
5B(4),  6N,  and  7A.] 

A  health  carrier's  quality  improvement  plan 
must  describe  its  good  faith  efforts  to  communicate 
with  public  health  agencies  and  its  strategy  for  inte- 
grating public  health  goals  with  the  health  services 
offered  to  covered  persons  under  managed  care 
plans  issued  by  the  health  carrier.  [NAIC,  Quality 
Assessment  and  Improvement  Model  Act,  Model 
Regulation  Sen  ice  -  July  1996,  Section  6C(2)(g).] 

JCAHO 

Health  care  services  provided  directly  or  by 
arrangement  are  appropriate  to  the  health  care 
needs,  as  influenced  by  sociocultural  characteristics 
of  the  population  served  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Continuum 
of  Care,  CC.l  and  CC.1.2]. 


NCQA 

No  standard  specified. 
URAC 

The  Network  contracts  with  all  participating 
providers  shall  contain  a  member  nondiscrimi- 
nation provision  {National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  NM  17.13). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  Enrollment  cannot  discriminate  on  the 
basis  of  age,  sex,  race,  health  or  economic  status 
[Minnesota  Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organizations,  62D.10,  Subd.3]. 

A  plan  does  not  discriminate  in  enrollment 
policy  against  any  person  solely  by  virtue  of  status 
as  a  recipient  of  medical  assistance  or  Medicare 
[Minnesota  Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health  Mainte- 
nance Organizations,  62D.12,  Subd.8]. 

The  plan,  either  directly  or  through  its  con- 
tracted mental  health  or  chemical  dependency 
provider,  makes  available  services  that  are  cultur- 
ally specific  or  appropriate  to  a  specific  age,  gender 
or  sexual  preference,  to  the  extent  reasonably 
possible  [Chapter  4685,  Department  of  Health, 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations,  4685.1010, 
Subp.2.E.(4)[. 

Medicaid:  The  plan  develops  a  strategy  for  address- 
ing the  needs  of  the  minority  populations  it  serves 
which  incorporates  the  following  elements: 

•  provision  of  culturally  appropriate  services; 

•  bilingual  staff  and/or  interpreters;  and 

•  coordination  with  community  resources 
[Request  for  Proposals,  Medical  Assistance/ 
General  Assistance  Medical  Care,  Minnesota 
Care,  Minnesota  Senior  Health  Options,  Managed 
Care  Health  Plan  Contracts,  State  of  Minnesota]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


158 


II.V.  Cultural  Sensitivity  (continued) 


Apian  provides  high  quality,  comprehensive 
patient  care  that  is  culturally  and  linguistically 
appropriate  and  is  provided  in  accordance  with 
current  professional  standards  [Request  for  Propos- 
als, Medical  Assistance/General  Assistance  Medical 
Care,  MinnesotaCare,  Minnesota  Senior  Health 
Options,  Managed  Care  Health  Plan  Contracts, 
State  of  Minnesota]. 


Pennsylvania 

Medicaid:  The  plan  provides  for  necessary 
translation  assistance  on  its  24-hour,  7-day-a-week 
toll-free  hotline  to  respond  to  enrollees'  inquiries, 
complaints,  and  problems  [Pennsylvania  Depart- 
ment of  Public  Welfare,  Operating  Agreement, 
Section  6,  Recipient  Services,  4.2]. 


Ohio 

Medicaid:  Enrollment  occurs  without  regard  to  an 
eligible  individual's  race,  color,  religion,  sex,  sexual 
orientation,  age,  disability,  national  origin,  Vietnam- 
era  veteran's  status,  ancestry,  health  status  or  need 
for  health  services  [Ohio  Administrative  Code, 
Chapter  5101:3-26-02(B)((l)  (a))]. 

The  plan  provides  the  services  of  an  inter- 
preter, during  normal  business  hours,  proficient 
in  the  primary  language  of  any  population  group 
that  constitutes  10%  or  more  of  its  enrollees  [Ohio 
Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:5-26-08(I)(2)]. 

The  subcontractor  agrees  not  to  discriminate 
in  the  delivery  of  services  based  on  the  enrollee's 
race,  color,  religion,  sex,  sexual  orientation,  age,  dis- 
ability, national  origin,  Vietnam-era  veteran's  status, 
ancestry,  health  status  or  need  for  health  services 
[Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  5101:3-26-05 
(D)(9)]. 

The  MCP  must  develop  and  receive  ODHS 
prior  approval  for  its  marketing  representative 
training  program  which  must  include  guidelines 
for  non  discrimination  [Ohio  Administrative  Code 
Chapter  51501:  3-26-08  (F)(4)(a)(xi)  and  (H)(6)]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


159 


II.W.  Consumer  Participation 


Medicare 

No  standard  specified. 

Federal  Qualification 

Statute:  The  application  shows  satisfactory  specifi- 
cation of  the  role  for  members  in  the  planning  and 
policymaking  of  the  organization  [Title  XIII  of  the 
Public  Health  Service  Act,  Section  1306(b) (3) (J)] 

Medicaid 

Guidelines:  It  is  recommended  that  attention  be 
paid  to  involving  Medicaid  recipients  in  the  over- 
sight process  in  ways  which  give  them  a  stronger 
voice  in  insuring  the  availability,  accessibility, 
and  acceptability  of  the  health  care  services  they 
receive.  They  should  have  a  proactive  role  as  advo- 
cates for  quality  medical  care  under  Medicaid,  and 
their  views  should  be  sought  on  issues  central  to 
the  improvement  of  quality  of  care  oversight,  such 
as  how  quality  is  measured  and  effecting  desired 
changes  in  the  provision  of  medical  care  [A  Health 
Care  Quality  Improvement  System  for  Medicaid 
Managed  Care:  A  Guide  for  States,  Medicaid  Bureau, 
Health  Care  Financing  Administration,  July  6,  1993, 
Chapter  l.III.D,  page  11]. 

Bureau  of  Primary  Health  Care 

Guidance:  The  governance  requirements  for 
BPHCTunded  health  centers  are  unique  among 
health  service  programs  and  are  the  basis  of  insur- 
ing that  each  health  center  is  representative  of  and 
responsive  to  the  community  it  serves.  Health 


Center  Boards  of  Directors  are  accountable  for  all 
activities,  fiscal  and  operational.  Because  of  the 
increasing  complexity  of  organizations  and  the 
environment  in  which  they  operate,  Boards  of 
Directors  should  include  individuals  with  a  variety 
of  special  expertise. 

Policy:  Community  Health  Center  Boards  are 
required  to  be  of  9  to  25  members,  the  majority 
designated  as  regular  health  center  users.  Board 
members  represent:  a)  the  demographic  character- 
istics of  the  population,  (gender,  economic  status, 
race,  ethnicity,  age)  and  b)  the  special  populations 
served.  [PCER  Governance  Protocol  I.1...L3.] 

Guidance:  For  any  health  center  receiving  Migrant 
Health  Center  329  funds  only,  51%  of  the  Board 
members  must  be  Migrant  Seasonal  Farm  Workers 
(MSFW).  For  any  health  center  that  receives  329 
funding  and  other  federal  funding,  Board  represen- 
tation must  be  established  in  reasonable  proportion 
to  their  percentage  of  the  health  center  user  popula- 
tion. A  minimum  of  one  MSFW  representative  must 
sit  on  the  Board  of  any  health  center  that  receives 
329  funding.  MSFW  user  Board  members  are 
defined  as  those  who  have  used  the  services  of  any 
health  center  within  the  past  two  years.  Note  that 
they  need  not  have  received  services  from  the  same 
health  center  because  of  the  inherent  mobility 
of  this  population.  There  should  be  appropriate 
assurances  that  the  input  of  MSFWs  is  actively 
sought  when  they  are  out  of  the  area  for  seasonal 
migratory  farmwork. 

Policy:  Migrant  and  Seasonal  Farm  Workers 
(MSFWs)  are  required  to  be  represented  in  the  user 
segment  of  the  Board  in  approximately  the  same 
ratio  that  they  are  represented  among  the  health 


Blue  Cross  .111(1  Ulur  Shield  Association 


Kit) 


II.W.  Consumer  Participation  (continued) 


center  users,  as  required  by  Section  329  Migrant 
Health  Programs  grant. 

a)  If  the  program  receives  Section  329  funds  only, 
51%  of  Board  members  are  required  to  be 
MSFWs. 

b)  If  the  program  receives  Section  329  funds  as  well 
as  other  federal  funding,  the  percent  of  user 
Board  members  is  representative  of  the  MSFW 
user  population.  [PCEB  Governance  Protocol 
II.1...II.10.] 

Guidance:  Byan  White  III B  HIV  programs  and 
Section  340  Health  Care  for  the  Homeless  programs 
do  not  have  governing  body  requirements.  However, 
user  panels  are  required  to  participate  in  developing 
the  health  care  plan  and  service  delivery  component 
the  programs  operations. 

NAIC 

A  health  carrier  must  provide  covered  persons  the 
opportunity  to  comment  on  the  quality  improvement 
process.  [NAIC,  Quality  Assessment  and  Improve- 
ment Model  Act,  Model  Regulation  Service  -  July 
1996,  Section  6E.] 

JCAHO 

The  network  requires  its  components  and  practi- 
tioner sites  to  address  member  education  needs 
relating  to  self-care;  health  promotion  and  disease 
prevention;  and  specific  information  about  mem- 
bers' illnesses  and  treatments  [1996  Joint  Commis- 
sion standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Education 
and  Communication,  ED. 3,  ED. 3.1,  ED. 3.2,  and 
ED.3.3]. 

Education  provided  supports  active  member 
participation  in  health  care  and  decision  making 
about  health  care  options  and  their  consequences 
[1996  Joint  Commission  standards  for  Health  Care 
Networks,  Education  and  Communication,  ED.4]. 


The  network's  leaders,  and,  as  appropriate, 
members,  clinical  staff,  licensed  independent  practi- 
tioners, and  community  leaders  and  organizations 
collaborate  to  design  services  [1996  Joint  Commis- 
sion standards  for  Health  Care  Networks, 
Leadersh  ip,  LD  .2 .4. 1  ] . 

Members  are  informed  of  their  responsibility 
for  providing  necessary  information  to  facilitate 
effective  treatment  and  for  cooperating  with  health 
care  providers  [1996  Joint  Commission  standards 
for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights,  Responsibilities, 
and  Ethics,  RI.5]. 

Members  are  informed  about  any  potential 
consequences  of  not  complying  with  a  recom- 
mended treatment  [1996  Joint  Commission 
standards  for  Health  Care  Networks,  Rights, 
Responsibilities,  and  Ethics,  RI.5.1]. 

IMCQA 

The  organization  demonstrates  a  commitment  to 
treating  members  in  a  manner  that  respects  their 
rights.  At  a  minimum,  the  organization  has  a 
written  policy  that  recognizes  the  following  rights 
of  members  to  participate  in  decision  making 
regarding  their  health  care  [NCQA  Standards  for 
Accreditation,  Members'  Rights  and  Responsibilities, 
1996,  RR  1.1.3]. 

Members  are  provided  a  written  statement 
that  includes  information  on  procedures  for  voicing 
complaints  and/or  grievances,  and  for  recommend- 
ing changes  in  policies  and  services  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Members'  Rights  and 
Responsibilities,  1996,  RR  5.1.9]. 

The  managed  care  organization  conducts 
periodic  surveys  of  member  satisfaction  with  the 
managed  care  organization's  services  [NCQA 
Standards  for  Accreditation,  Members'  Rights  and 
Responsibilities,  1996,  RR  8.2]. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association 


161 


II. W.  Consumer  Participation  (continued) 


URAC 

The  Network  shall  implement  a  program  to  educate 
members  about  their  rights,  including  the  right  to 
participate  in  the  decision-making  regarding  their 
care  and  treatment  (National  Network  Accreditation 
Standards,  April  1996,  MP  1.4). 

Minnesota 

All  plans:  If  a  plan  is  a  nonprofit  corporation, 
at  least  40%  of  the  governing  body  is  composed  of 
consumers  elected  by  the  enrollees  from  among 
the  enrollees  [Minnesota  Statutes,  Chapter  62D, 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations,  62D.06,  Subp.l]. 
In  addition  to  the  40%  consumer  representatives, 
51%  of  the  community  integrated  service  network's 
governing  body  is  composed  of  residents  of  the 
plan's  service  area. 

If  a  plan  is  a  local  governmental  unit,  an 
enrollee  advisory  body  is  established,  elected  by 
the  enrollees  from  among  the  enrollees  [Minnesota 
Statutes,  Chapter  62D,  Health  Maintenance 
Organizations,  62N.25,  Subd.4]. 

The  governing  body  establishes  mechanisms 
to  afford  the  enrollees  an  opportunity  to  express 
their  opinions  in  matters  of  policy  and  operation 
through  the  establishment  of  advisory  panels,  by 
the  use  of  advisory  referenda  on  major  policy  deci- 
sions, or  through  the  use  of  mechanisms  prescribed 
by  the  state  [Minnesota  Statutes,  Chapter  62D, 
Health  Maintenance  Organizations,  62D.06,  Subd.2]. 

Consumer  representatives  on  the  governing 
body  are  enrollees  at  the  time  of  their  election  and 
during  their  term  of  office  [Chapter  4685,  Depart- 
ment of  Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1400,  Subp.3]. 


The  Commissioner  of  Health  may  consider 
alternatives  to  the  above  governing  body  composi- 
tion, such  as: 

•  permitting  enrollees  to  attend  and  express  their 
opinions  at  certain  regular  meetings  of  the 
governing  body  or  special  meeting  called  for  the 
express  purpose  of  affording  enrollees  an  oppor- 
tunity to  express  their  opinion; 

•  creating  a  special  committee  of  the  governing 
body  which  holds  meetings  at  least  quarterly  and 
which  are  open  to  all  enrollees  to  express  their 
opinions; 

•  designating  a  special  administrative  office  within 
the  plan,  responsible  directly  to  the  governing 
body,  which  will  be  open  to  enrollees  to  express 
their  opinions  on  a  regular  basis; 

•  creating  enrollee  councils  which  will  be  afforded 
a  reasonable  opportunity  to  meet  with  the  gov- 
erning body  or  its  designee  to  express  enrollee 
opinions;  and 

•  such  other  mechanisms  as  the  Commissioner 
may  authorize  [Chapter  4685,  Department  of 
Health,  Health  Maintenance  Organizations, 
4685.1500]. 

Ohio 

All  plans:  The  quality  assurance  committee 
includes  representation  from  plan  management, 
and  representation  from  plan  enrollment 
[Procedural,  (ODH)]. 

Medicaid:  MCPs  must  provide  enrollees  with  the 
opportunity  to  offer  their  opinions  on  and  sugges- 
tions for  improvement  in  service  delivery  and 
investigate  prevalent  sources  of  dissatisfaction 
[Ohio  Administrative  Code,  Chapter  51501:  3-26-082 
(C)(1)  and  (2)(d)(i)]. 

Pennsylvania 

No  standard  specified. 


Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Vssoeiation 


162 


9/4/96 


HEALTH  SERVICES  REPORT 
Name  of  Health  Plan 
City,  State 
(File  Name  "HSDRPT") 

Note:  The  42  CFR  citations  for  Title  XIII  (Sections  under  417. 100)  and  XVIII  (Sections 
under  417.400)  are  in  parentheses,  please  use  the  citations  appropriate  to  the  specific  review. 

If  the  application  being  reviewed  is  for  qualification  and  a  Medicare  contract,  this 
report  must  describe  the  systems  proposed  for  both  commercial  and  Medicare  members  and 
identify  any  differences. 


Reviewer's  Name  Date  of  Report 

Brief  introductory  statement 

Dates  of  site  visit 

Dates  of  materials  submitted  which  supplement  application 
Persons  contacted  in  course  of  review:  name,  title,  organization 
Model  type 

CONCLUSIONS 

A.  Federal  Requirements:  State  explicitly  whether  or  not  the  HMO  meets  requirements 
specified  under  42  CFR  Subpart  A,  as  amended,  which  are  pertinent  to  the  health 
services  operations.  Summarize  major  factors  supporting  your  conclusion. 

B.  Overall  Strengths/Weaknesses:  Summarize  any  significant  strengths  or  weaknesses  of 
this  HMO. 

FINDINGS 

A.  (417.100,  417.103)  (417.401.  417.407)  Definitions  and  provision  of  services.  Identify 
the  model  and  briefly  describe  how  services  are  (to  be)  delivered.  Identify  the 
percentage  of  physician  time  devoted  to  the  HMO  if  a  group  model. 

B.  (417.101(a)(3).  417.103(e)(3).  417.107(i)  (417.416)  Instructions  to  members. 
Describe  how  members  are  informed  about  the  availability  of  services  (including 
emergency),  and  are  educated  about  the  appropriate  use  and  frequency  of  services. 


Page  2  -  Health  Services  Report 

C.       (417.103(b).  417.107(a)(2).  417.107(0  (417.410)  Utilization  Management 

1.  Utilization  assumptions 

Last  calendar  year   

Current  year   

Next  year  _______ 

Year  after  next   

Plan  hospital  days/1,000  Commercial/Medicare 

Community  hospital  days/1,000  Commercial/Medicare 

average  hospital  cost  per  diem  

ambulatory  visits  encountered  pmpy  Commercial/Medicare 

(verify  these  assumptions  with  the  financial  reviewer) 

2.  Control  Mechanisms 

a.  Inpatient  Services 

Describe  the  mechanisms  the  Plan  uses  (will  use)  to  monitor  utilization 
and  to  control  costs.  Specifically  address  prior  authorization, 
concurrent  and  retrospective  review,  and  which  HMO  staff  are  involved. 
Describe  any  differences  between  commercial  and  Medicare  procedures. 

b.  Ambulatory  Services 

Describe  the  mechanisms  the  Plan  uses  (will  use)  to  control  ambulatory 
referrals  including  specialist  and  X-Ray  services.  As  with  inpatient 
services,  specifically  address  prior  authorization,  concurrent  and 
retrospective  review  and  which  staff  perform  those  functions  for 
Medicare  and  commercial. 

c.  Describe  the  physician  and  other  provider  reimbursement  systems  and 
financial  incentives.  Specifically  address  the  services  for  which  the  Plan 
is  at  risk  and  those  services  for  which  the  providers  are  at  risk.  Discuss 
any  differences  between  Medicare  and  commercial  reimbursements  and 
incentives. 

d.  Provider  understanding  and  willingness  to  participate.  Discuss 
provider's  attitudes  and  understanding  of  the  HMO  procedures, 
including  contract  provisions  relating  to  financial  incentives  and 
utilization  control  procedures.  Note  whether  physicians  or  hospitals 
have  an  ownership  interest  in  the  plan. 


Page  3  -  Health  Services  Report 


e.  Feedback.  Describe  procedures  to  provide  feedback  to  individual 
physicians  on  utilization  and  its  impact  on  the  Plan's  financial  status. 

f.  Discuss  whether  the  HMO's  management  information  system  will 
provide  adequate  information  to  support  the  utilization  control 
mechanisms.  Will  the  frequency  and  distribution  of  reports  be 
appropriate? 

3.        (417.103  (bY)  Conclude  whether  the  HMO  is  likely  to  achieve  the  projected 
utilization  assumptions  when  considering: 

a.  demographics  of  the  Plan's  projected  enrolled  population; 

b.  adequacy  of  the  utilization  control  system; 

c.  ability  of  the  Plan  to  implement  its  system; 

d.  past  experience,  if  applicable. 

D.       (417.106,  417.107(1))  (417.414(b)417.416(e)(l)(2))  Availability,  accessibility, 
continuity  of  services.  Emergency  services. 

1.  Describe  briefly: 

a.  Note  the  number  of  primary  care  physicians,  specialists  and  other 
providers.  Discuss  the  adequacy  of  these  numbers  in  meeting  the  needs 
of  current  and  projected  Medicare  and  commercial  enrollment. 

b.  Location  of  providers  within  the  service  area.  Identify  provider 
hospitals  and  verify  that  the  HMO  physicians  have  admitting  privileges. 
Discuss  whether  the  providers  are  appropriately  distributed  and 
accessible  to  all  members.  Identify  the  Medicare  providers  separately,  if 
appropriate,  and  explain  if  they  are  Medicare-only  providers. 

c.  Coordination  and  continuity  of  care.  Discuss  the  medical  records 
system,  role  of  PCP  (gatekeeper  vs  self  referral),  MIS,  etc.  (See 
417.416(e)(2)  for  Medicare  requirement  for  medical  recordkeeping 
system  relating  to  continuity  of  care.) 

d.  Emergency  provisions  -  arrangements  made  for  members  to  have  24 
hour  access  to  emergency  care. 

2.  Specifically  state  whether  or  not  the  HMO  (will)  provides  available  and 
accessible  basic  and  supplemental  services  to  all  members  and  if  they  are 
provided  in  a  manner  which  assures  continuity  of  care. 


Page  4  -  Health  Services  Report 

E.  (417.1 07(h).  417.1 07(D)  (417.418)  Quality  Assurance 

1 .  Describe  the  quality  assurance  program  including: 

QA  department  structure 
Annual  QA  Plan 
Board  of  Directors'  involvement 
role  of  the  Medical  Director 

use  of  MCE's,  generic  screens,  profiles,  etc.,  to  review  the  clinical 
process  of  care 

use  of  MIS  reports,  if  applicable 

capability  of  systemic  data  collection  of  individual  patient  care  data 
through  MIS  and  manual  systems 
Sources  of  issues  for  review/study 

2.  Describe  the  QA  committee  including: 

composition,  leadership  and  frequency  of  meetings 
to  whom  does  the  committee  report 
typical  activities  delegated  to  the  committee 

3.  Explain  the  mechanism  for  feedback  of  identified  QA  problems  to  individual 
physicians  and  procedures  for  remedial  action. 

4.  Conclude  whether  the  HMO's  quality  assurance  program  meets  the 
requirements  of  the  HMO  Act  and  regulations. 

F.  417.107(j)(k)  Confidentiality  and  Disclosure 

G.  417.1 07(a)(2)  Management 

Provide  an  assessment  of  management  capability  in  the  health  services  delivery  area  and 
an  assessment  of  overall  plan  management  from  the  perspective  of  the  specialty  area. 

Management  in  the  health  services  area  should  address: 

understanding,  experience,  and  commitment  of  the  Medical  Director  and  other 
health  services  staff 

amount  of  time  devoted  to  administrative  activities 
clear  lines  of  authority,  responsibility  and  delegation  of  authority 
capability  of  management  to  enforce  policies  (such  as  nonpayment  to 
individual  physicians  for  inappropriate  services  rendered). 


• 


Page  5  -  Health  Services  Report 
knowledge  of  MIS 

whether  the  HMO  meets  the  necessary  requirements  and  confidentiality  in 
treatment  of  members  maintenance  of  records. 

Assessment  of  overall  plan  management  should  address: 

involvement  of  the  Medical  Director  and  other  health  services  staff  in  overall 
plan  management  concerns  such  as  long  term  planning,  budgeting,  and  review 
of  current  operations 

adequacy  of  communication  within  the  HMO  to  assure  coordination 

-  among  physicians 

-  with  board  of  HMO 

-  between  Medical  Director  and  key  HMO  management  personnel 
such  as  Marketing  Director,  and  Financial  Director 

commitment  of  physicians 
track  record,  if  applicable 

the  consistency  of  provider  contracts  to  adequately  reflect  and  support  the 
functioning  of  the  health  care  delivery  system 


The  Medicare  review  should  also  address  4 17.41 6(a). (b):  providers  must  meet  applicable 
Medicare  statutory  and  regulatory  provisions. 


HSD-  County /Plan  Network 


Plan- 


H- 


PLAN  EXECUTED  CONTRACTS 


COUNTY    DATA  INFORMATION 


PfP 

prp 

O  IJcC  lallM 

I  1U>I)I  I  €l  i 

Jvl  I*  i  \  i  (' « »  r*o 
1V1L  UlCal  t 

Eligibles 

Plan 

Medicare 
Projection 

Explanation: 

Column  1:-  this  column  lists  the  counties  that  the  plan  desires  to  provide  services  to  Medicare  beneficiaries 
Column  2-4:-  these  columns  are  the  Plans  executed  contracts 

Column  5-7:-  this  is  data  obtained  from  the  state  or  other  sources  that  provide  the  total  numbers  for  the  county 
Column  8:-  this  column  lists  the  total  possible  Medicare  eligibles  for  the  county 
Column  9:-  this  is  Plans  Medicare  projections  for  the  particular  county 

Note:      -Complete  form  and  attach  explanations  where  needed 

-PCPs  include  family  practice,  internal  medicine  and  general  practice 
-Physicians  should  be  counted  only  once 


bking:4/8/96 


HSD-  County/Plan  Network 


Plan- 


H- 


PLAN  EXECUTED  CONTRACTS 
(MEDICARE) 


COUNTY    DATA  INFORMATION 


County 

PCP 

Specialist 

Hospital 

PCP 

Specialist 

Hospital 

Medicare 
Eligibles 

Plan 

Medicare 
Projection 

Explanation: 

Column  1 :-  this  column  lists  the  counties  that  the  plan  desires  to  provide  services  to  Medicare  beneficiaries 
Column  2-4:-  these  columns  are  the  Plans  executed  contracts 

Column  5-7:-  this  is  data  obtained  from  the  state  or  other  sources  that  provide  the  total  numbers  for  the  county 
Column  8:-  this  column  lists  the  total  possible  Medicare  eligibles  for  the  county 
Column  9:-  this  is  Plans  Medicare  projections  for  the  particular  county 

Note:       -Complete  form  and  attach  explanations  where  needed 

-PCPs  include  family  practice,  internal  medicine  and  general  practice 
-Physicians  should  be  counted  only  once 


bking:4/23/96 


