AUTHENTICATED 
US. GOVERNMENT 
INFORMATION ^ 


PPACA ENROLLMENT AND THE INSURANCE 
INDUSTRY 


HEARING 

BEFORE THE 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON OA^RSIGHT AND 
im^STIGATIONS 

OF THE 

COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND 
COMMERCE 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATDH]S 

ONE HUNDRED THIRTEENTH CONGRESS 

SECOND SESSION 

MAY 7, 2014 


Serial No. 113-144 



Printed for the use of the Committee on Energy and Commerce 
energycommerce.house.gov 

U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE 
91-184 WASHINGTON : 2015 


For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Publishing Office 
Internet: bookstore.gpo.gov Phone: toll free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800 
Fax: (202) 512-2104 Mail: Stop IDCC, Washington, DC 20402-0001 


COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE 

FRED UPTON, Michigan 
Chairman 


RALPH M. HALL, Texas 
JOE BARTON, Texas 
Chairman Emeritus 
ED WHITFIELD, Kentucky 
JOHN SHIMKUS, Illinois 
JOSEPH R. PITTS, Pennsylvania 
GREG WALDEN, Oregon 
LEE TERRY, Nebraska 
MIKE ROGERS, Michigan 
TIM MURPHY, Pennsylvania 
MICHAEL C. BURGESS, Texas 
MARSHA BLACKBURN, Tennessee 
Vice Chairman 
PHIL GINGREY, Georgia 
STEVE SCALISE, Louisiana 
ROBERT E. LATTA, Ohio 
CATHY McMORRIS RODGERS, Washington 
GREGG HARPER, Mississippi 
LEONARD LANCE, New Jersey 
BILL CASSIDY, Louisiana 
BRETT GUTHRIE, Kentucky 
PETE OLSON, Texas 
DAVID B. McKinley, West Virginia 
CORY GARDNER, Colorado 
MIKE POMPEO, Kansas 
ADAM KINZINGER, Illinois 
H. MORGAN GRIFFITH, Virginia 
GUS M. BILIRAKIS, Florida 
BILL JOHNSON, Missouri 
BILLY LONG, Missouri 
RENEE L. ELLMERS, North Carolina 


HENRY A. WAXMAN, California 
Ranking Member 
JOHN D. DINGELL, Michigan 
Chairman Emeritus 
FRANK PALLONE, jR., New Jersey 
BOBBY L. RUSH, Illinois 
ANNA G. ESHOO, California 
ELIOT L. ENGEL, New York 
GENE GREEN, Texas 
DIANA DeGETTE, Colorado 
LOIS CAPPS, California 
MICHAEL F. DOYLE, Pennsylvania 
JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY, Illinois 
JIM MATHESON, Utah 
G.K. BUTTERFIELD, North Carolina 
JOHN BARROW, Georgia 
DORIS 0. MATSUI, California 
DONNA M. CHRISTENSEN, Virgin Islands 
KATHY CASTOR, Florida 
JOHN P. SARBANES, Maryland 
JERRY McNERNEY, California 
BRUCE L. BRALEY, Iowa 
PETER WELCH, Vermont 
BEN RAY LUJAN, New Mexico 
PAUL TONKO, New York 
JOHN A. YARMUTH, Kentucky 


Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 

TIM MURPHY, Pennsylvania 
Chairman 


MICHAEL C. BURGESS, Texas 
Vice Chairman 

MARSHA BLACKBURN, Tennessee 

PHIL GINGREY, Georgia 

STEVE SCALISE, Louisiana 

GREGG HARPER, Mississippi 

PETE OLSON, Texas 

CORY GARDNER, Colorado 

H. MORGAN GRIFFITH, Virginia 

BILL JOHNSON, Ohio 

BILLY LONG, Missouri 

RENEE L. ELLMERS, North Carolina 

JOE BARTON, Texas 

FRED UPTON, Michigan (ex officio) 


DIANA DeGETTE, Colorado 
Ranking Member 
BRUCE L. BRALEY, Iowa 
BEN RAY LUJAN, New Mexico 
JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY, Illinois 
G.K. BUTTERFIELD, North Carolina 
KATHY CASTOR, Florida 
PETER WELCH, Vermont 
PAUL TONKO, New York 
JOHN A. YARMUTH, Kentucky 
GENE GREEN, Texas 

HENRY A. WAXMAN, California (ex officio) 


(H) 



CONTENTS 


Page 

Hon. Tim Murphy, a Representative in Congress from the Commonwealth 

of Pennsylvania, opening statement 1 

Prepared statement 3 

Hon. Diana DeGette, a Representative in Congress from the state of Colorado, 

opening statement 4 

Hon. Fred Upton, a Representative in Congress from the state of Michigan, 

opening statement 6 

Prepared statement 7 

Hon. Henry A. Waxman, a Representative in Congress from the state of 

California, opening statement 8 

Prepared statement 

Hon. Marsha Blackburn, a Representative in Congress from the State of 
Tennessee, prepared statement 80 

Witnesses 

Mark Pratt, Senior Vice President of State Affairs, Americas Health Insur- 
ance Plans 10 

Prepared statement 12 

Answers to submitted questions 110 

Frank Coyne, Vice President of Operations, Chief Transformation Officer, 

Blue Cross Blue Shield Association 23 

Prepared statement 24 

Answers to submitted questions 120 

Paul Wingle, Executive Director of Individual Business and Public Exchange 

Operations and Strategy, Aetna 28 

Prepared statement 29 

Answers to submitted questions 129 

Brian Evanko, President, Individual Segment, Cigna 31 

Prepared statement 33 

Answers to submitted questions 139 

J. Darren Rodgers, Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, Health 

Care Service Corporation 36 

Prepared statement 38 

Answers to submitted questions 153 

Dennis Matheis, President of Central Region and Exchange Strategy, 

Wellpoint, Inc 41 

Prepared statement 43 

Answers to submitted questions 163 

Submitted Material 

Article entitled, “Changes in Mortality After Massachusetts Health Care Re- 
form: A Quasi-experimental Study,” American College of Physicians, May 

6, 2014. submitted by Ms. DeGette 81 

Majority memorandum 92 

Minority memorandum 95 


(III) 




PPACA ENROLLMENT AND THE INSURANCE 

INDUSTRY 


WEDNESDAY, MAY 7, 2014 

House of Representatives, 

Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, 

Committee on Energy and Commerce, 

Washington, DC. 

The subcommittee met, pursuant to call, at 10:18 a.m., in room 
2123, Rayburn House Office Building, Hon. Tim Murphy (chairman 
of the subcommittee) presiding. 

Present: Representatives Murphy, Burgess, Blackburn, Olson, 
Gardner, Griffith, Johnson, Long, Ellmers, Barton, Upton (ex offi- 
cio), DeGette, Braley, Lujan, Schakowsky, Castor, Tonko, Yarmuth, 
Green, Dingell, and Waxman (ex officio). 

Staff Present: Gary Andres, Staff Director; Karen Christian, 
Chief Counsel, Oversight; Noelle Clemente, Press Secretary; Paul 
Edattel, Professional Staff Member, Health; Brad Grantz, Policy 
Coordinator, O&I; Brittany Havens, Legislative Clerk; Sean Hayes, 
Deputy Chief Counsel, O&I; Alexa Marrero, Deputy Staff Director; 
Christopher Pope, Eellow, Health; Krista Rosenthall, Counsel to 
Chairman Emeritus; Tom Wilbur, Digital Media Advisor; Jessica 
Wilkerson, Legislative Clerk; Jean Woodrow, Director, Information 
Technology; Phil Barnett, Minority Staff Director; Stacia Cardille, 
Minority Chief Counsel; Brian Cohen, Minority Staff Director, 
Oversight & Investigations, Senior Policy Advisor; Hannah Green, 
Minority Staff Assistant; Karen Nelson, Minority Deputy Com- 
mittee Staff Director Eor Health; Stephen Salsbury, Minority In- 
vestigator; and Matt Siegler, Minority Counsel. 

OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. TIM MURPHY, A REPRESENTA- 
TIVE IN CONGRESS FROM THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENN- 
SYLVANIA 

Mr. Murphy. Good morning. I now convene this hearing to exam- 
ine the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and enrollment 
of the State and Federal exchanges here in the Oversight and In- 
vestigations Committee for the Committee on Energy and Com- 
merce. 

This subcommittee has a long history of trying to get straight an- 
swers from the administration on the status of the Affordable Care 
Act. Two weeks before the launch of HealthCare.Gov, the adminis- 
tration official responsible for the implementation of the ACA ex- 
changes told this committee that the Web site would be ready, con- 
sumers would be able to go online, shop for a select plan and then 
enroll in coverage. 


( 1 ) 



2 


When the Federal exchange opened on October 1, consumers in- 
stead found a crashing Web site. The administration’s excuse for 
why the Web site didn’t work: Volume. Through this committee’s 
investigation, we learned that the administration spent over $.5 
billion on a Web site that they had been warned for several months 
would not be ready and would not work. Facts that administration 
officials did not disclose when questioned by this committee during 
oversight hearings through 2013. 

Just after the failed launch, we asked the administration on Oc- 
tober 8 to provide enrollment data for the first week of the 
HealthCare.Gov debacle. The administration ignored us. Why? It 
wasn’t because the data didn’t exist; it was because the news 
wasn’t good. When Secretary Sebelius testified before the full En- 
ergy and Commerce Committee on October 30 of last year, was 
asked about enrollment, she stated that she could not provide any 
data because the administration did not “have any reliable data 
around enrollment.” 

The very next day, it was reported that there were only six suc- 
cessful enrollments on October 1. We tried again during a hearing 
in January before this subcommittee when we asked the head of 
the office running the exchanges if the administration collected any 
data on who has paid their health coverage. This administration of- 
ficial told us that they did not collect this information “but we will 
be,” as soon as it was finished building the Web site. 

While the administration refused to provide straightforward an- 
swers to our questions on enrollment, it continues to tout enroll- 
ment figures that included individuals who had merely selected a 
plan online. When pressed by reporters for information on the 
number of enrollees who had paid their premiums, a White House 
spokesman said that questions about payment “can best be directed 
to those private insurance companies that are collecting those pay- 
ments.” 

After months of an administration that refused to be transparent 
about enrollment, that’s what we did; we did exactly what the ad- 
ministration suggested we do. On March 13, we sent a request to 
each insurance company in the Federal marketplace and asked 
them to submit basic information: Who selected a plan and who 
paid for it? 

The data submitted by the insurers paints an uneven picture 
about the status of enrollment and payment through April 15. As 
of that date, just two-thirds of enrollees through the Federally-fa- 
cilitated marketplace paid their first month premium. Some States 
are doing better than others. 

My home State of Pennsylvania, for example, has an 81 percent 
payment rate. Texas, on the other hand, is much lower at 42 per- 
cent. We recognize that many individuals still have time to pay 
their first month’s premium, which is why we have asked the in- 
surers to update this information on May 20. As with any criticism 
or questions of the Affordable Care Act, the administration predict- 
ably protested and attempted to misrepresent the purpose of our 
inquiry. 

Let’s be clear about why we had to engage in this exercise in the 
first place. The administration would not be transparent about en- 
rollment and provide the underlying data. For the witnesses today. 



3 


we ask you to be patient with our questions about enrollment and 
implementation. After months of promises about the status of 
HealthCare.Gov from HHS officials, we have learned to be skep- 
tical about blanket statements that everything is well. 

One purpose of today’s hearing is to examine enrollment because 
it is a key factor in measuring whether these exchanges are viable. 
We have a number of other questions for the witnesses today about 
the status of implementation. The ACA is more than a payment 
rate. We need to know if Americans can expect the premium reduc- 
tions they were promised, and we need to know if they can keep 
the plan they liked. We need to know if they can keep their doctor. 

We cannot understand the status of the law in its implementa- 
tion without hearing from you, the insurance companies, whose 
plans make up these exchanges. Under the President’s health care 
law, these companies will receive taxpayer dollars in the form of 
premium subsidies and cost sharing. We expect the witnesses today 
to provide the committee with facts and information about the first 
year of coverage under the Affordable Care Act. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Murphy follows:] 

Prepared statement of Hon. Tim Murphy 

This subcommittee has had a long history trying to get straight answers from this 
Administration on the status of the Affordable Care Act. Two weeks before the 
launch of HealthCare.gov, the administration official responsible for the implemen- 
tation of the ACA exchanges told this Committee that the Web site would be ready. 
Consumers would be able to go online, shop for and select a plan, and enroll in cov- 
erage. 

When the federal exchange opened on October 1, consumers instead found a 
crashing Web site. The administration’s excuse for why the Web site didn’t work? 

Volume. 

Through this Committee’s investigation, we learned that the administration spent 
over half a billion dollars on a Web site that they had been warned for months 
would not be ready and would not work — facts that administration officials did not 
disclose when questioned by this Committee during oversight hearings throughout 
2013. 

Just after the failed launch, we asked the administration on October 8 to provide 
enrollment data for the first week of the HealthCare.gov debacle. The administra- 
tion ignored us. Why? It wasn’t because the data didn’t exist. It was because the 
news wasn’t good. When Secretary Sebelius testified before the full Energy and 
Commerce Committee on October 30 and was asked about enrollment, she stated 
that could not provide any data because the administration did not “have any reli- 
able data around enrollment.” 

The very next day it was reported that there were only six successful enrollments 
on October 1. We tried again during a hearing in January before this Subcommittee, 
when we asked the head of the office running the exchanges if the administration 
collected any data on who has paid for their health coverage. This administration 
official told us that they did not collect this information “but we will be” as soon 
as it finished building the Web site. 

While the administration refused to provide straightforward answers to our ques- 
tions on enrollment, it continued to tout enrollment figures that included individuals 
who had merely selected a plan online. When pressed by reporters for information 
on the number of enrollees who had paid their premiums, a White House spokes- 
man said that questions about payment “can best be directed to those private insur- 
ance companies that are collecting those payments.” 

After months of an administration that refused to be transparent about enroll- 
ment, that’s what we did. On March 13, we sent a request to each insurance com- 
pany in the federal marketplace and asked them to submit basic information: who 
selected a plan, and who paid for it. The data submitted by the insurers paints an 
uneven picture about the status of enrollment and payment through April 15. As 
of that date, just two-thirds of enrollees through the federally-facilitated market- 
place paid their first month premium. Some states are doing better than others. My 
borne state of Pennsylvania has an 81 percent payment rate. Texas, on the other 



4 


hand, is much lower, at 42 percent. We recognize that many individuals still have 
time to pay their first month’s premium, which is why we have asked the insurers 
to update this information on May 20. 

As with any criticism or questions of the Affordable Care Act, the administration 
predictably howled in protest and attempted to misrepresent the purpose of our in- 
quiry. Let’s be clear about why we had to engage in this exercise in the first place: 
the administration would not be transparent about enrollment and provide the un- 
derlying data. For the witnesses today, we ask you to be patient with our questions 
about enrollment and implementation. After months of promises about the status 
of HealthCare.gov from HHS officials, we have learned to be skeptical about blanket 
statements that “all is well.” 

One purpose of today’s hearing is to examine enrollment, because it is a key factor 
in measuring whether these exchanges are viable. We have a number of other ques- 
tions for the witnesses today about the status of implementation. The ACA is more 
than a payment rate. We need to know if Americans can expect the premium reduc- 
tions they were promised. We need to know if they can keep the plan they liked. 
We need to know if they can keep their doctor. We cannot understand the status 
of the law and its implementation without hearing from the insurance companies 
whose plans make up these exchanges. Under the President’s health care law, these 
companies will receive taxpayer dollars in the form of premium subsidies and cost- 
sharing. We expect the witnesses today to provide the Committee with facts and in- 
formation about the first year of coverage under the Affordable Care Act. 

Mr. Murphy. Thank you to the witnesses for being here today, 
and I now would like to recognize the ranking member, Ms. 
DeGette, for 5 minutes. 

OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. DIANA DEGETTE, A REP- 
RESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF COLO- 
RADO 

Ms. DeGette. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to take a 
few minutes, since the chairman has walked through the greatest 
hits of the problems they have had with the ACA, of where we 
stand now and where we stand after the first enrollment period 
has just closed. So as we continue to get information about how the 
exchanges in the Affordable Care Act and the enrollment are per- 
forming, let’s review what we already know. 

The first thing is, despite the disastrous beginning of the Federal 
exchange, good news: The Web site was fixed. More than 8 million 
people signed up for insurance through the exchanges created 
through the Affordable Care Act which is more than 1 million more 
than were originally projected before the disastrous unveiling. 

Now, of those 8 million people, 3 million of them waited until the 
last month of enrollment, and so their premiums are not due until 
April 30, or in some cases, later than April 30. Even so, my col- 
leagues, in their quest for knowledge on the other side of the aisle, 
sent out a questionnaire to insurers that manipulated the payment 
deadlines to skew the understanding of how new insurance cov- 
erage is performing. 

How does that happen? Because they cut off the responses April 
15, at least 2 weeks before many of the premiums of these 3 million 
people were even due for payment. What this does is it skews the 
amount of people who were enrolled. Then, of course, they issued 
a press release posthaste. 

Now, for years, my friends on the other side of the aisle have 
made a series of claims that really are unsubstantiated. First, they 
claimed that the bill contained death panels, then they claimed 
that the bill would eliminate private insurance within 3 years, then 
they claimed that the law would destroy millions of jobs. When the 



5 


Web site was broken, they insisted the law would never meet en- 
rollment goals. 

Now, Mr. Chairman, today we finally have a chance to see in a 
snapshot what’s happening with the iMfordable Care Act, and the 
facts reveal that every single one of those claims were wrong. As 
of today, as I said, more than 8 million people enrolled in private 
plans through Federal and State marketplaces. Millions more have 
enrolled through Medicaid and in off-exchange plans. 

Gallup just released a new poll finding that in the last 6 months, 
the percentage of adults without insurance has dropped about 20 
percent, and what that means is there are more than 11 million 
Americans with insurance today than there were 6 months ago. 
Premiums are below the levels predicted by the Congressional 
Budget Office, and the agency has once again reiterated that the 
Affordable Care Act has slowed inflation and saved billions of dol- 
lars and will even reduce deficits. So by any rational, reasonable 
measure, we can call this law success, and that success will make 
a real difference in people’s lives. That’s what’s important here. 

Yesterday, researchers from the Harvard School of Public Health 
released a comprehensive study on the impacts of health insurance 
coverage. They were looking at mortality rates before and after the 
passage of RomneyCare, the landmark Massachusetts health insur- 
ance expansion that served as a model for the Affordable Care Act. 
They found that the mortality rate in Massachusetts fell by about 
3 percent in the 4 years after passage of the State’s health insur- 
ance law. 

Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask unanimous consent to put a 
copy of that study into the record. 

Mr. Murphy. Without objection. 

Ms. DeGette. Thank you. 

[The information appears at the conclusion of the hearing.] 

Ms. DeGette. So if we can achieve that same level of success na- 
tionwide with the Affordable Care Act, and there’s no reason why 
we shouldn’t be able to do so, that could result in 17,000 fewer 
deaths per year. That, Mr. Chairman, in a nutshell, is what the Af- 
fordable Care Act means for Americans. 

Now, what I wish we could do in this subcommittee, and I’ve said 
this both publicly and privately many, many times, is sit down 
with the ACA, figure out what the flaws are and figure out how 
we can work in a bipartisan way to fix it. And that’s what I think 
we should do. Instead, what we get is this misleading analysis last 
week which said that only 67 percent of enrollees had paid for the 
coverage they enrolled in on the exchanges. 

And my chairman, Mr. Upton, said the administration’s recent 
declarations of success may be unfounded. But again, I will say, the 
report was misleading because almost half of the enrollees in the 
health care exchanges, 40 percent of them, did not even have to 
make their initial premium payment until April 31. I’m glad we’ve 
got the insurers here today to clear up this record. I’m glad we 
have everybody here to see exactly what we’re talking about here. 

So my suggestion is, let’s look at the successes, let’s look where 
we need to make improvements, and let’s work together to do just 
that. Thank you. 

Mr. Murphy. Gentlelady’s time has expired. 



6 


Now recognize the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Upton for 
5 minutes. 

OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. FRED UPTON, A REPRESENTA- 
TIVE IN CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF MICHIGAN 

Mr. Upton. With a friendly pat on the back, I’ll just say April 
31 has yet to come. “30 days has September, April, June and No- 
vember.” 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the witnesses for being here 
today as well, for sure. At this subcommittee, our investigations are 
about getting the facts. A quest for transparency, the self-pro- 
claimed most transparent administration in history has repeatedly 
dodged our simple questions about the health care law and refused 
even a semblance of transparency about how its signature legisla- 
tive achievement is or is not working. 

We wanted the basic data from the administration on enrollment 
1 week after the launch of HealthCare.Gov, and the administration 
has rejected our request for more information each and every time. 
Members of the press have asked. The administration suggested 
the only way to get the facts was directly asking the insurance pro- 
viders themselves. So we took their advice and we did just that, 
but the administration cried foul again. 

We began asking about HealthCare.Gov months before October 
1 of last year. Repeatedly, we are told things were on track and 
working the way it was supposed to. We learned that this was not 
the case and the administration officials did everything in their 
power, it seems, to hide the chaos behind the scenes. 

The American public does deserve better. They deserve better 
than an administration that promised them $2,500 in savings on 
health care premiums only to see the cost rise sharply for many. 
They deserve better than an administration that repeated promises 
officials knew that would be impossible to keep, promises that 
Americans could keep their doctors and keep their health care 
plans, also. 

Like it or not, millions of Americans have found themselves with 
the unwelcome reality of cancellations and lost access to their 
trusted doctor. And one Democratic colleague from Massachusetts 
said just 2 weeks ago, the worst is yet to come. 

Today we are going to hear firsthand from insurance providers 
about how implementation is working from their perspective. While 
the administration has declared this conversation over, the fact is 
that serious questions remain unanswered, and it is our responsi- 
bility to continue seeking the facts. 

How many people have completed the enrollment process? Are 
the risks presented by these pools sustainable? How much more 
will premiums rise this next year? Is the back end of the Web site 
on track to be working by the next enrollment period? Are there 
any other delays or changes ahead that will disrupt the ability of 
families and businesses to plan for their health care coverage and 
needs? Will more health care plans be canceled in the coming 
years? 

So what’s wrong with seeking that information? Nothing that I 
know of. We released basic data points on enrollment as of April 
15, and we’ll do so again on the data that we collect through May 



7 


20 . The facts are the facts, and while the administration and its 
allies furiously try to muddy reality, the public deserves trans- 
parency. 

And while the administration toasts to the law’s success with its 
Hollywood allies, declaring this conversation over, we will continue 
our pursuit for facts for the American people so that we can finally 
have a full, accurate picture of this health care law, and I yield the 
balance of my time to Dr. Burgess. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Upton follows:] 

Prepared statement of Hon. Fred Upton 

At this subcommittee, our investigations are about getting the facts — a quest for 
transparency. The self-proclaimed “most transparent administration in history” has 
repeatedly dodged our simple questions about the health care law and refused even 
a semblance of transparency about how its signature legislative achievement is — 
or is not — working. 

We began asking for basic data from the administration on enrollment one week 
after the launch of HealthCare.gov, and the administration has rejected our re- 
quests for more information every time. Members of the press have asked, and the 
administration suggested the only way to get the facts was directly asking the in- 
surance providers themselves. So, we took their advice and did just that, but the 
administration cried foul. 

We began asking about HealthCare.gov months before October 1. Repeatedly we 
were told things were “on track” and “working the way it was supposed to.” We 
learned that this was not the case, and administration officials did everything in 
their power to hide the chaos behind the scenes. 

The American public deserves better. They deserve better than an administration 
that promised them $2,500 in savings on their health care premiums, only to see 
the costs rise sharply for many. They deserve better than an administration that 
repeated promises officials knew would be impossible to keep — promises that Ameri- 
cans could keep their doctor and keep their health care plans. Like it or not, mil- 
lions of Americans have found themselves with the unwelcome reality of cancella- 
tions and lost access to their trusted doctors. 

Today we will hear first hand from the insurance providers about how implemen- 
tation is working from their perspective. While the administration has declared this 
conversation over, the fact is that serious questions remain unanswered. And it is 
our responsibility to continue seeking the facts. How many people have completed 
the enrollment process? Are the risks presented by these pools sustainable? How 
much more will premiums rise next year? Is the backend of the Web site on track 
to be working by the next enrollment period? Are there any other delays or changes 
ahead that will disrupt the ability of families and businesses to plan for their health 
care coverage and needs? Will more health care plans be cancelled in the coming 
years? 

What is wrong with seeking this information? Nothing. We released basic data 
points on enrollment as of April 15, and we will do so again on the data we collect 
through May 20. The facts are the facts, and while the administration and its allies 
furiously try to muddy reality, the public deserves transparency. While the adminis- 
tration toasts to the law’s success with its Hollywood allies, declaring this conversa- 
tion over, we will continue our pursuit for facts for the American people so we can 
finally have a full, accurate picture of this health care law. 

Mr. Burgess. I thank the chairman for yielding. 

I thank our witnesses for being here today. I know it’s not al- 
ways easy or pleasant to come before this subcommittee. I, like the 
chairman, wish that the administration had been a little bit more 
forthcoming about information which would have obviated your 
need to be here today, but I do appreciate the fact that you re- 
sponded to our requests and that you have provided the data. 

The fact remains the administration has withheld facts or 
changed facts during the rollout of this law and that the Federal 
agencies responsible for the implementation currently excel only in 



8 


opacity. So you are here today to provide that transparency that 
the American people were promised earlier in this administration, 
and I thank you for being here. 

I have particular concern over one aspect, and I will delve into 
it a little bit more during the questioning today, but that is the 
issue on the grace period, the 90-day period of time that is granted 
to people who are receiving the tax credits, the advance tax credits 
for the offset of the cost of their insurance. If they don’t pay their 
premium in spite of the tax credit, they are given a grace period 
of 90 days. 

My understanding is that the companies will be responsible for 
the first 30 days; beyond that, it will be the doctor or the hospital, 
the provider who submits the bill who may be on the hook for that. 
And I am very interested to know what you have in development 
to keep practices, to keep providers apprised of the fact that a pa- 
tient’s claim may be in a pending status when that claim is sub- 
mitted. 

I know from running a doctor’s office, you always call and verify 
benefits, but now we have a new realm that we’ve entered into: Not 
only would you identify that someone has been enrolled, but that 
they’ve paid and that they’re current on their payments so that the 
provider in question would not be at risk. So we will get into a lit- 
tle bit more on that in the question-and-answer period. 

I thank the chairman for the time and yield back. 

Mr. Murphy. Gentleman’s time has expired. 

I now recognize the ranking member of the full committee, Mr. 
Waxman, for 5 minutes. 

OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. HENRY A. WAXMAN, A REP- 
RESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF CALI- 
FORNIA 

Mr. Waxman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Last week the Republican whip. Representative Kevin McCarthy, 
wrote an op-ed opposing the Affordable Care Act. He wrote, “Presi- 
dent Obama needs to learn a simple lesson: Saying something 
doesn’t make it true.” Well, psychologists call this projection, a de- 
fense mechanism that involves ascribing your own behavior to oth- 
ers. 

In one phrase. Representative McCarthy summed up 5 years of 
Republican opposition to the Affordable Care Act. Over and over. 
Republican leaders have fabricated criticisms of the Affordable 
Care Act and none of them have been true. Republican leaders said 
that the ACA would create death panels; well, there are none in 
the law. Republican leaders said that the law was unconstitutional; 
the Supreme Court held exactly the opposite. Republican leaders 
said that the ACA would increase the deficit; well, the nonpartisan 
Congressional Budget Office found that the law will reduce deficits 
by over $1 trillion. Republican leaders said that the law would 
cause health care costs to skyrocket; in fact, in the 3 years after 
passage of the ACA, health care spending growth was at its lowest 
rate in 50 years. 

Republican leaders said that the law would cause massive job 
losses; in reality, there have been 48 consecutive months of job cre- 
ation since the ACA was passed with more than 9.2 million jobs 



9 


created. Republican leaders said there would be a huge loss of cov- 
erage under the law, but every independent analysis shows that 
the number of Americans with health insurance is growing and the 
number of uninsured dropping rapidly. Republicans said enroll- 
ment would fall far short of CBO estimates because few Americans 
would sign up; at 8 million and growing, enrollment has exceeded 
everyone’s expectations. 

Mr. Chairman, I just summarized 5 years of relentless Repub- 
lican opposition to the Affordable Care Act. It’s a sad and, I believe, 
reprehensible record. The Republican Party is trying to scare fami- 
lies from getting the health insurance they need. We saw the same 
pattern just last week when this committee released another report 
claiming imminent failure. This time, the report said that one-third 
of enrollees had not paid for coverage. There was just one problem: 
The data was incomplete, out of date, and manipulated. Due to the 
late surge in enrollment, premiums were not even due for over 3 
million Americans. 

The testimony we’re going to hear today from the insurers con- 
tradicts the Republican findings. That testimony says that 80 to 90 
percent of enrollees have paid their premiums. Mr. Chairman, it 
was a mistake to release those inaccurate and misleading findings, 
and it’s not the first time this has happened. 

This morning, I released a memo describing the Republican 
record of distortion, exaggeration, and misdirection. It’s a sad 
record, and I’d like to make it part of this hearing record. The sim- 
ple fact is, despite 5 years of ceaseless opposition, the Affordable 
Care Act is working. Over 8 million Americans have signed up for 
private health care coverage on the State and Federal exchanges. 
Millions more have signed up for Medicaid. Premiums are well 
below CBO expectations. No American ever has to fear being dis- 
criminated against or denied coverage based on a preexisting condi- 
tion. 

No amount of blatant falsehoods and cynical partisanship can ob- 
scure the facts. The Affordable Care Act is an enormous step for- 
ward in the health of our Nation. And I yield back the balance of 
my time, and I appreciate this opportunity to set the record 
straight. 

Mr. Murphy. Thank you. The gentleman yields back. 

We’ll now move forward here with our witnesses. Just one mo- 
ment, please. We’re moving quicker and that’s good. I just wasn’t 
quite ready. 

So I’d like to introduce the panel for today’s hearing. We have 
Mr. Mark Pratt, who is a senior vice president of State Affairs for 
America’s Health Insurance Plans; Mr. Frank Coyne is the Vice 
President of Operations and Chief Transformation Officer of Blue 
Cross and Blue Shield Association; Mr. Paul Wingle is the Execu- 
tive Director of Individual Businesses and Public Exchange Oper- 
ations and Strategy for Aetna; Mr. Brian Evanko is the President 
of Individual Segment for Cigna Health and Life Insurance Com- 
pany; Mr. J. Darren Rodgers is the Senior Vice President and Chief 
Marketing Officer at the Health Care Services Corporations; and 
Mr. Dennis Matheis is the President of Central Region and Ex- 
change Strategy at WellPoint, Inc. 



10 


I will now swear in the witnesses. You are aware that this com- 
mittee is holding an investigative hearing and when doing so, we 
have the practice of taking testimony under oath. Do any of you 
have any objections to testifying under oath? All the witnesses 
have indicated no. 

The chair, then, advises you that under the rules of the House 
and the rules of the committee, you are entitled to be advised by 
counsel. Do you desire to be advised by counsel during your testi- 
mony today? 

Mr. Wingle is saying you would like to be advised by counsel. 
Well, if you are sitting behind him, that’s fine. 

Anybody else? You have counsel behind you. You are certainly 
are welcome at some point to ask clarification from them, that’s 
fine. 

In any case, would you all please rise and raise your right hand, 
and I’ll swear you in. 

[Witnesses sworn.] 

Mr. Murphy. Thank you. You may be seated. All the witnesses 
have taken that oath, and you are now under oath and subject to 
the penalties set forth in Title 18, Section 1001 of the IJnited 
States Code. We’ll have you now each give a 5-minute opening 
statement. Please stick to the 5 minutes. You’ll see a red light go 
on when you’re at the end of your time. 

Mr. Pratt, you may begin. 

STATEMENTS OF MARK PRATT, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT OF 
STATE AFFAIRS, AMERICAS HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS; 
FRANK COYNE, VICE PRESIDENT OF OPERATIONS, CHIEF 
TRANSFORMATION OFFICER, BLUE CROSS AND BLUE 
SHIELD ASSOCIATION; PAUL WINGLE, EXECUTIVE DIREC- 
TOR OF INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS AND PUBLIC EXCHANGE OP- 
ERATIONS AND STRATEGY, AETNA; BRIAN EVANKO, PRESI- 
DENT, INDIVIDUAL SEGMENT, CIGNA; J. DARREN RODGERS, 
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF MARKETING OFFICER, 
HEALTH CARE SERVICE CORPORATION; AND DENNIS 
MATHEIS, PRESIDENT OF CENTRAL REGION AND EXCHANGE 
STRATEGY, WELLPOINT, INC. 

STATEMENT OF MARK PRATT 

Mr. Pratt. Chairman Murphy, Ranking Member DeGette and 
members of the subcommittee, I am Mark Pratt, Senior Vice Presi- 
dent of State Affairs in America’s Health Insurance Plans. I lead 
AHIP’s legislative and regulatory activities in the States, including 
implementation of the Affordable Care Act and our work with the 
National Association of Insurance Commissioners. We appreciate 
this opportunity to testify on enrollment in the new health insur- 
ance exchanges and implementation of the ACA. 

Our written testimony focuses on two broad areas: One, our 
members’ experience in the ACA’s initial open enrollment period 
for 2014; and two, our members’ priorities for improving access to 
high-quality affordable health coverage in 2015 and beyond. Since 
the enactment of the ACA, our members have been working the im- 
plement the law’s many requirements with a strong focus on deliv- 
ering high value coverage options for consumers. Helping them oh- 



11 


tain the secure, affordable coverage they need has been our central 
goal throughout the implementation process. 

While working on operational issues related to ACA implementa- 
tion and providing recommendations to policymakers, our members 
have focused on several major goals. Among them: Minimizing dis- 
ruptions for consumers, businesses and stakeholders; ensuring the 
workability of the exchanges and allowing State flexibility; maxi- 
mizing choice and competition; and addressing specific ACA provi- 
sions to make health coverage more affordable. 

On numerous issues, our members have provided technical as- 
sistance and expertise to assist Federal agencies in resolving the 
operational challenges that surrounded the launch of the new ex- 
changes in the HealthCare.Gov Web site. They have devoted sig- 
nificant resources to performing manual processes and 
workarounds that were necessitated by the problems following the 
October 1 launch. Despite the challenges our members encoun- 
tered, we are proud that they ultimately were successful in offering 
a broad range of high-valued coverage options to consumers who 
are enrolled in exchanges in 2014. 

HHS has reported that approximately 8 million individuals 
signed up for exchange plans during the initial open enrollment pe- 
riod for 2014. While uncertainty remains with respect to how many 
people have paid their first month’s premium, health insurers have 
been doing everything possible to encourage exchange enrollees to 
pay their premiums. 

In the coming weeks, we anticipate that there will be greater 
clarity on the question of how many exchange enrollees have paid 
their premiums. A number of individual plans have publicly an- 
nounced their preliminary data, and we anticipate that more an- 
nouncements will be forthcoming; however, it may be a period of 
time before system-wide numbers on premiums payments are 
available. Our members will continue their ongoing outreach to en- 
courage exchange enrollees to pay their premiums. 

Looking forward, we continue to believe that affordability must 
be the central priority as we focus on further expanding access to 
high quality, affordable health insurance coverage in 2015 and be- 
yond. One critically important step that Congress can take to make 
coverage more affordable is to delay the ACA health insurance tax 
and eventually repeal it. 

We are deeply concerned that this tax is undermining efforts to 
control costs and provide affordable coverage options. We strongly 
support bipartisan legislation to fully repeal the tax introduced by 
Representatives Boustany and Matheson and cosponsored by 230 
House members. We also support as a short-term solution separate 
bipartisan legislation that proposes a 2-year delay on the tax. 

On another front and in closing, we have worked closely with our 
members to provide comments to Federal agencies on dozens of 
proposed rules and other regulatory documents. We consistently 
have emphasized the importance of creating a regulatory environ- 
ment that promotes a wide range of affordable coverage options. 
Thank you again for this opportunity to testify. I look forward to 
your questions. 

Mr. Murphy. Thank you, Mr. Pratt. I thank you for yielding 
back. 



12 


[The prepared statement of Mr. Pratt follows:] 



AMiP 


PPACA Enrollment and the Insurance Industry 


by 

Mark Pratt 

Senior Vice President, State Affairs 
America’s Health Insurance Plans 


for the 

House Energy and Commerce Committee 
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 


May 7, 2014 



13 


I. Introduction 


Chairman Murphy, Ranking Member DeGette, and members of the subcommittee, I am Mark 
Pratt. Senior Vice President for State Affairs at America's Health Insurance Plans (AHIP), which 
is the national association representing health insurance plans. I lead AHIP’s legislative and 
regulatory activities in the states, including implementation of the Affordable Care Act and our 
work with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. My role includes daily 
involvement in issues relating to the state-based Exchanges and state Medicaid programs, 
working with leading stakeholder organizations and government officials from across the 
country, 1 previously was employed as head of government affairs for Anthem Blue Cross and 
Blue Shield in Virginia, as a principal for a Washington DC -based public affairs consulting firm, 
and as Executive Director of the Virginia Association of Health Plans. 

AHlP's members provide health and supplemental benefits to more than 200 million Americans 
through employer-sponsored coverage, the individual insurance market, and public programs 
such as Medicare and Medicaid. AHIP advocates for public policies that expand access to 
affordable health care coverage to ail Americans through a competitive marketplace that fosters 
choice, quality, and innovation. 

We appreciate this opportunity to testify on enrollment in the new health insurance Exchanges 
and other issues relating to implementation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Throughout the 
.ACA implementation process, our members have w'orked closely with federal and state officials 
to address a broad range of regulatory and operational issues to help consumers get the coverage 


1 



14 


they need. Health insurers remain strongly committed to continuing to serve consumers and 
participate in the new marketplaces established by the law. 

Our testimony focuses on two broad areas: (1 ) our members' experience in the ACA’s initial 
open enrollment period for 2014, including issues surrounding the payment of premiums by 
consumers who have signed up for coverage; and (2) our members’ priorities for improving 
access to high quality, affordable health insurance coverage in 201 5 and beyond. 


II. Our Members’ Experience in the Open Enrollment Period for 2014 

Since the enactment of the ACA, our members have been working to implement the law’s many 
requirements with a strong focus on delivering high-value coverage options in the most 
affordable and least disruptive manner possible. To give consumers greater peace of mind about 
their health care coverage, health plans have implemented some reforms ahead of schedule and, 
as we discuss below, provided consumers greater fle.xibility w'ith payment deadlines to help 
avoid potential gaps in coverage. Helping consumers obtain the secure, affordable coverage they 
need has been our central goal throughout the implementation process. 

As part of this process, health plans have worked diligently to comply w'ith the thousands of 
pages of regulations, directives, information requests, guidance, and other regulatory documents 
that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and other federal agencies have issued 
to implement various statutory provisions of the ACA. While working on operational issues 



15 


related to ACA implementation and providing recommendations to policymakers, our members 
consistently have focused on several major goals: 

• Minimizing disruptions for consumers, businesses, states, and stakeholders; 

• Ensuring the workability of the operational architecture of Exchanges and allowing state 
flexibility; 

• Maximizing coordination to prevent redundant state and federal regulations and data 
collections and focusing on ways to reduce administrative cost burdens; 

• Maximizing choice and competition; and 

• Addressing specific ACA provisions to make health coverage more affordable for consumers 
and purchasers. 

On a broad range of issues, our members have provided technical assistance and expertise to 
assist federal agencies in resolving the operational challenges that surrounded the launch of the 
new Exchanges and the healthcarc.gov website. They also have devoted significant resources to 
performing manual processes and work-arounds that were necessitated by the problems that 
surfaced in the days and weeks following the October 1 launch. Under ever-changing deadlines 
and operational guidance, they processed enrollment files and payments in short timeframes. 
They also supported consumers through the open enrollment process by providing online 


3 



16 


educational resources, increasing customer service call center hours and support (in response to 
unprecedented numbers of phone calls from consumers who needed help navigating the 
enrollment process), and partnering with community groups, health care stakeholders, and faith- 
based organizations to reach under-served communities. Despite the challenges our members 
encountered, we are proud that they ultimately were successful in offering a broad range of high- 
value coverage options to consumers who arc enrolled in Exchange plans for 2014. 

HHS has reported that approximately 8 million individuals signed up for Exchange plans during 
the initial open enrollment period for 2014. While there is some uncertainty with respect to how 
many people have paid their first month's premium, health insurers have been doing everything 
possible to encourage Exchange enrollees to pay their premiums. We appreciate the committee's 
interest in learning more about this issue, particularly in light of the information you released last 
week based on data provided by insurers participating in the federally-facilitated Exchange. 

One reason there is uncertainty about the number of Exchange enrollees who have paid their 
premiums is that some insurers - to provide peace of mind for consumers and to protect them 
from potential gaps in coverage - have voluntarily decided to provide flexibility in the deadline 
by which Exchange enrollees must pay their first month’s premium. This flexibility is allowed 
under an interim final rule published by HHS on December 17, 2013. 

Other factors also contribute to the uncertainty about how many Exchange enrollees have paid 
their premiums: 


4 



17 


• Changing enrollment: In early February, CMS implemented the functionality for Exchange 
enroliees to voluntarily terminate their plan or to report a “life event” (i.e., a change in 
circumstance, such as a new baby or job, which allows a special enrollment period). While 
this functionality serves a valid purpose, it creates challenges in calculating accurate 
enrollment data and payment rates. 

• Duplicate enrollments: Because of the challenges that surfaced with the launch of the 
Exchanges in October 2013, some consumers were advised to create a new account and 
enroll again. As a result, insurers have many duplicate enrollments in their system for which 
they never received any payment. In cases where an insurer has a new enrollment for a 
consumer who previously enrolled, they are not e.xpecting that original policy to be 
effectuated - even though that data is still reported. 

In the coming weeks, as we move further past the conclusion of the open enrollment period for 
2014, we anticipate that there will be greater clarity on the question of how many Exchange 
enrollee.s have paid their premiums. A number of individual plans have publicly announced their 
data, and we anticipate that more announcements will be forthcoming. However, given the 
significant variation in enrollment that occurs in the individual marketplace, it may be a matter of 
months before system-wdde numbers on premium payments are available. Our members will 
continue their ongoing outreach and communication efforts to encourage Exchange enroliees to 
pay their premiums. 


5 



18 


III. Our Members’ Priorities for 2015 and Beyond 

Looking forward, we continue to believe that affordability must be the central priority - for 
Congress, the Administration, the states, and stakeholders - as we focus on further expanding 
access to high quality, affordable health insurance coverage in 201 S and beyond. 

Repeal of ACA Health Insurance Tax 

One critically important step that Congress can take to make coverage more affordable is to 
delay and eventually repeal the ACA’s health insurance tax. The health insurance tax began in 
2014 and will exceed $100 billion over the next ten years. The tax is set at $8 billion in 2014, 
and increases by over 40 percent to $1 1.3 billion in 201 ,5, and to $14.3 billion by 2018. In 
subsequent years, the tax will increase annually based on premium growth. 

We are deeply concerned that implementation of the new health insurance tax is undermining 
efforts to control costs and provide affordable coverage options. An Oliver Wyman study', 
commissioned by AHIP, has concluded that the health insurance tax alone will increase the co.st 
of family coverage in the individual market by an average of $5,080 over the ten-year period of 
2014-2023. This study also estimated that the health insurance tax will increase the cost of 
family coverage in the small group market by an average of $6,830 over the same ten-year 
period. Additionally, a state-by-state analysis' by Oliver Wyman lia.s provided per-person and 
cumulative estimates of the impact this tax will have on individual market consumers. 


Carlson, Chris, "rislimatcd Premium impacts of.Annual Fees Assessed on Health Insurance Plans." Oliver Wyman 
October 2011. 

"Carlson. Chris. ".Annual Tax on Insurers .Allocated by State." Oliver W'yman. November 2012. 


6 



19 


employers, and Medicare Advantage enrollees in all SO states, as well as the impact on state 
Medicaid managed care programs. 

The findings of the Oliver Wyman studies reinforce our deep concern that the new health 
insurance tax is having a significant negative impact on the affordability of coverage. To address 
this concern, we strongly support bipartisan legislation (H.R. 763) to fully repeal the health 
insurance tax, introduced by Reps. Charles Boustany (R-LA) and Jim Matheson (D-UT). To 
date, 230 House members have cosponsored this bill, including 30 members of the House Energy 
and Commerce Committee. We also support - as a short-term solution - separate bipartisan 
legislation (H.R, 3367), introduced by Reps. Charles Boustany (R-LA) and Ami Beta (D-CA), 
that proposes a two-year delay in the ACA health insurance tax, 

Regulatory Changes to Make Coverage More Affordable 

Throughout the ACA implementation process, we have worked closely with our members to 
provide comments to federal agencies on dozens of proposed rules and other regulatory 
documents. We consistently have emphasized the importance of creating a regulatory 
environment that promotes a wide range of affordable coverage options. We have cautioned that 
regulatory policies that increase the cost of coverage or restrict consumer choice may encourage 
individuals to forego purchasing coverage until after they are sick or injured. This is particularly 
true for young and healthy individuals who are extremely sensitive to the cost of coverage and 
who are a key demographic of the reformed marketplace. We remain concerned that adverse 
selection and unnecessarily high costs will occur in the absence of broad participation in the new 
Exchanges. These serious concerns - along with the experience of our members at the 


7 



20 


operational level - have shaped our comments and recommendations to the agencies on a broad 
range of regulatory issues. 

Long-Term Policy Options for Improving Quality and Affordability 

Additional steps to make coverage more affordable are outlined in a document we released in 
December 2013 - “A Roadmap to High Quality Affordable Health Care for All Americans.”’ 
This report discusses the health care cost challenges facing our nation, the innovative programs 
health plans are implementing to promote value and reduce costs, and policy options for 
promoting a sustainable, high quality health care system. 

The policy recommendations in our report focus on improving quality of care and enhancing 
value for consumers and patients by building upon existing innovations in the private sector and 
public-private collaborations. We recommend action in the following areas: 

• Advancing a state-based gain sharing program to encourage innovation and cosi 

savings. The program we propose would provide shared savings incentives to reward states 
that are able to reduce future increases in health care costs through innovative programs and 
collaboration with stakeholders. 

• Accelerating health system and delivery' reforms to transform the health care system 
and promote value. This includes improving Mcdicarc/Medicaid integration for “dual 
eligibles,” implementing financial incentives for providers that improve patient safety, 
expanding the use of patient-centered medical homes, encouraging broader adoption of 

■’ "A Rcadniap lo High Qualily Affordable Health Care for All Americans," AHIP. November 2013. 

8 



21 


'‘bundled payments” to promote greater value and quality of care, encouraging accountable 
care models that promote effective collaborations between insurers and providers for 
improving quality and lowering cost, streamlining high-value quality measures, and 
removing barriers to allow stakeholders to advance global payment models as a way to 
realign financial incentives toward high quality, lower cost care. 

• Addressing underlying health care cost drivers and paying for care that is proven to 
work. This includes tackling barriers to transparency, incorporating the findings of 
comparative effectiveness research into coverage and reimbursement decisions by both 
public and private payers, reducing the exclusivity period for biologies and biosimilars, 
prohibiting anticompetitive patent settlements between drug companies, and adopting quality 
measures that evaluate generic prescribing practices. 

• Strengthening the health care infrastructure. This includes reducing adminiittrative 
overhead and costs through administrative simplification, and improving quality through 
medical liability reforms, 

• Stamping out fraud and abuse. This includes fighting fraud in public programs with ‘‘best 
practices” commonly used in the private sector, employing the next generation of 
information technology tools, and ensuring that collaborations betw-een health plans and 
public partners accelerate the tight against fraud based on a flexible partnership. 


9 



22 


IV, Conclusion 


Thank you again for this opportunity to testify. Our members remain strongly committed to 
working with Congress, the Administration, the states, and other stakeholders to expand access 
to high quality, affordable coverage options. 


10 



23 


Mr. Murphy. Now, I recognize Mr. Coyne for his 5 minutes. 
Thank you. 


STATEMENT OF FRANK COYNE 

Mr. Coyne. Good morning, Chairman Murphy, Ranking Member 
DeGette, and members of the subcommittee. Thank you for the in- 
vitation to testify here today. I am Frank Coyne, Vice President in 
the Office of the President for the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Asso- 
ciation, which represents the 37 independent community-based 
Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies that collectively provide 
health coverage for 100 million Americans. 

Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies offer health care coverage 
in every ZIP Code in the country and have long been committed to 
offering consumers across the country a wide variety of insurance 
options. My remarks today focus on the Blue’s participation in the 
Multi-State Plan Program administered by the Office of Personnel 
Management and enrollment in Blue Cross and Blue Shield MSP 
plans. 

The Affordable Care Act authorizes 0PM to contract with at 
least two entities, at least one of which must be a not-for-profit to 
offer products on the State and Federal marketplaces. Under this 
Multi-State Plan Program, 0PM certifies health plans in conjunc- 
tion with States for placement on the exchanges. 

For 2014, 0PM certified Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies 
to offer Multi-State Plan products in 30 States and the District of 
Columbia. Collectively, Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies of- 
fered more than 150 Multi-State Plan products. 0PM has devel- 
oped a standard contract for 0PM issuers that meets its require- 
ments. The association is party to that contract with 0PM and are 
Blue licensee plans have agreements with us to fulfill many aspects 
of that contract, such as customer enrollment, benefits and claims 
administration and customer service, among other activities. 

In addition, the contract contains a requirement to report enroll- 
ment information to 0PM. In order to fulfill this requirement, we 
ask Blue plans to report information on their Multi-State Plan en- 
rollments to us, and we convey enrollment information to 0PM. As 
of April 1, 2014, a total of 283,783 individuals have selected an 
MSP plan. 

I appreciate the opportunity to discuss Blue participation and en- 
rollment in the MSP plan, and I look forward to your questions. 

Mr. Murphy. Thank you, Mr. Coyne. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Coyne follows:] 



24 


Testimony 



BlueCross BlueShield 
Association 

An Assot'inliotf of fndqiftRifnl 
Blue Cross and BlueShield I'ians 


l3tOG Street. NAV. 
Washini'ion. D.C 201)05 
202.626.478() 
Fa\202.626.4872 


Before the 


Subcommittee on Oversight and investigations 
Energy and Commerce Committee 
U.S. House of Representatives 


on 


PPAGA Eiiroilment and the Insurance Industry 


Presented by: 


Frank E. Coyne 

Vice President, Office of the President 


May 7, 2014 



25 


PPACA Enrollment and the Insurance Industry 5/7/2014 Page 2 of 4 

INTRODUCTION 

Thank you Chairman Murphy, Ranking Member DeGette, Chairman Upton, Ranking Member 
Waxman and members of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee for this opportunity 
to testify today on enrollment in the new Exchange marketplaces. 

I am Frank Coyne, Vice President, Office of the President of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield 
Association (“BCBSA") - a national federation representing the 37 independent, community- 
based, and locally operated Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies (“Plans”) that collectively 
provide health care coverage for 100 million members, one in three Americans, in every U.S. 
ZIP code. Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans offer a variety of insurance products to all 
segments of the population, including large employer groups, small business, individuals and 
government programs. 

I am responsible for oversight of BCBSA's participation in the Multi-State Plan (MSP) Program 
administered by the Office of Personnel Management (0PM). 

OVERVIEW OF TESTIMONY 

My testimony today focuses on: 

1) BCBSA participation in OPM’s Multi-State Plan program; and 

2) Enrollment figures to-date in Blue Cross and Blue Shield MSP plans. 

0PM MULTI-STATE PROGRAM STRUCTURE AND TERMS 

The Affordable Care Act (ACA) authorizes 0PM to contract with at least two entities, at least one 
of which must be a not-for-profit, to offer products on the stale and Federal Exchange 
marketplaces phased-in over a 4-year timeframe. Under this program, called the Multi-State 
Plan Program, 0PM certifies health plans in conjunction with States, for placement on the 
Exchanges. 

For the individual market, the MSP plans are to be phased in. with products available in 60 
percent of states by 2014, 70 percent by 2015, 85 percent by 2016, and 100 percent by 2017, 

For 2014, MSP individual market products are required in 31 states. 



26 


PPACA Enrollment and the Insurance Industry 


5/7/2014 Page 3 of 4 


The MSP Program is regulated under proyisions of the ACA and OPM’s MSP Program 
regulations. The MSP Program operates on a “level playing field" with plans adhering to the 
same federal and state requirements as all other qualified health plans (QHPs). For example, 
our MSP plans adhere to the same local essential health benefit (EHB) benchmarks as QHPs. 
Issuers may apply to be certified to offer MSP products, and the application process is similar 
to the Federally-Facilitated Marketplace (FFM) application process. To be eligible, an entity 
must be an health insurance issuer, or a group of issuers with common ownership or a 
common service mark. The Association fits the latter case. 

In addition, OPM has developed a standard contract for the Issuers that meet its requirements. 
In our case, the Association is party to the contract, and our Blue licensee Plans have 
agreements with us to fulfill many aspects of the contract, such as customer enrollment, 
benefits and claims administration, and customer service, among other activities. 

The contract contains a requirement to report enrollment information to OPM, In order to fulfill 
this requirement, we ask our Plans to report on their MSP enrollment to us, and we convey 
enrollment information to OPM. 

BCBSA PARTICIPATION IN THE MULTI-STATE PLAN PROGRAM 

Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans traditionally offer consumers across the country a wide 
variety of coverage options. For 2014, OPM certified Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans to offer 
MSP products in 30 states and the District of Columbia. The total number of MSP plans 
offered exceeds 150. 

Our participation in the MSP Program is part of our longstanding commitment to providing 
consumers with a variety of health plan choices so that they have access to affordable plans 
that best meet their healthcare needs. 

ENROLLMENT IN THE MULTI-STATE PROGRAM 


Consumers’ interest in the Multi-State Plan Program has been significant. As of April 1, 2014, a 



27 


PPACA Enrollment and the Insurance Industry 5/7/2014 Page 4 of 4 

total of 283,783 individuals have selected an MSP plan. 

CONCLUSION 

Blue Cross Blue Shield is committed to working with OPM and Members of the Subcommittee to 
ensure consumers continue to have access to broad range of affordable plans. I appreciate the 
opportunity to discuss Blue participation and enrollment in the MSP Program, and I look forward 
to your questions. 



28 


Mr. Murphy. Now, Mr. Wingle, you’re recognized for 5 minutes. 

STATEMENT OF PAUL WINGLE 

Mr. Wingle. Good morning, Chairman Murphy, Ranking Mem- 
ber DeGette and distinguished members of the subcommittee. My 
name is Paul Wingle, and I am executive director of Individual 
Business and Public Exchange Operations and Strategy at Aetna. 
Thank you for inviting us to today’s hearing. I have a brief opening 
statement and will then be happy to answer any questions you may 
have. 

Aetna is currently participating in the individual market on the 
exchanges in 17 States. Over the course of approximately the last 
2 months, Aetna has worked with the subcommittee to provide re- 
quested data and information related to enrollment in plans offered 
through federally-facilitated marketplaces. 

As of the third week of April, Aetna had over 600,000 members 
who had enrolled, and roughly 500,000 members who had paid. For 
those who are reached their payment due date, the payment rate, 
though dynamic, has been in the low- to mid-80 percent range. As 
outlined in our prior submissions to the subcommittee, these are 
dynamic figures and do not reflect final enrollment numbers, as 
some enrollees have not yet reached their payment due dates. 

An example would be a member with a June 1 policy effective 
date who has not yet paid but whose initial payment is not yet due. 
We are happy to continue to work with the subcommittee to pro- 
vide updated information and data and note that, as the sub- 
committee has recognized, this might include material, nonpublic, 
confidential, and proprietary information. 

Thank you again for the opportunity to be here today, and I 
would be happy to answer any questions you may have. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Wingle follows:] 



29 


TESTIMONY OF PAUL WINGLE 

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS AND PUBLIC EXCHANGE 
OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY 

AETNA, INC. 

BEFORE THE U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES COMMITTEE ON ENERGY 
AND COMMERCE, SUBCOMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND INVESTIGATIONS 

HEARING ON “PPACA ENROLLMENT AND THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY” 

MAY 7, 2014 


Good morning Chairman Murphy. Ranking Member DeGette, and distinguished 
members of the Subcommittee. My name i.s Paul Wingle, and I am the Executive Director of 
Individual Business and Public Exchange Operations and Strategy at Aetna. Thank you for 
inviting us to today’s hearing. I have a brief opening statement and will then be happy to answer 
any questions you may have, 

Aetna is currently participating in the individual market on the exchanges in 17 states. 
Over the course of approximately the last two months, Aetna has worked with the Subcommittee 
to provide requested data and information related to enrollment in plans offered through 
Federally-Facilitated Marketplaces (“FFM”). As of the third w'eek of April, Aetna had over 
600,000 members who had enrolled, and roughly 500,000 members who had paid. For those 
who had reached their payment due date, the payment rate, though dynamic, has been in the low- 
to mid-80 percent range. 

As outlined in our prior submissions to the Subcommittee, these are dynamic figures and 
do not reflect final enrollment numbers, as .some enrollees have not yet reached their payment 



30 


due dates (for example, a member with a June 1 policy effective date, who has not yet paid, but 
whose initial payment is not yet due). We are happy to continue to work with the Subcommittee 
to provide updated information and data, and note that, as the Subcommittee has recognized, this 
might include material non-public, confidential, and proprietary information. 

Thank you again for the opportunity to be here today, and I would be happy to answ-er 
any questions you may have. 


2 



31 


Mr. Murphy. Thank you, Mr. Wingle, he yields back. 

And now, Mr. Evanko, you’re recognized for 5 minutes. 

STATEMENT OF BRIAN EVANKO 

Mr. Evanko. Chairman Murphy, Ranking Member DeGette, 
members of the subcommittee, good morning and thank you for the 
opportunity to testify at this hearing on PPACA enrollment and the 
insurance industry. I’m Brian Evanko, and I currently serve as 
president of the U.S. Individual Segment at Cigna Corporation. I 
oversee the operation tasked with developing, promoting and main- 
taining the Cigna products that are offered in the individual health 
market, including those products that are offered on the exchanges 
set up pursuant to the patient protection and Affordable Care Act, 
or ACA. 

Cigna is a global health services company dedicated to helping 
people improve their health, wellbeing, and sense of security. 
Through its subsidiaries, Cigna offers an integrated suite of health 
services, such as medical, dental, behavioral health, pharmacy and 
vision care benefits, along with other related products including 
group disability, life, and accident coverage. 

We employ more than 26,000 people and have sales capability in 
30 countries and jurisdictions. We manage more than 80 million 
customer relationships throughout the world. Despite our large 
footprint, 80 percent of Cigna’s overall health care business con- 
sists of administrative services. This means that we help employers 
to administer their policies. We also administer claims processes 
which are not risk-based like traditional insurance. Many of the 
employers that we assist are self-insuring and the claim payments 
come out of the employer’s own funds. 

Cigna’s traditional insurance business is concentrated in the 
large group market. We have a very limited presence in the indi- 
vidual market, including on the ACA exchanges. The individual 
market currently constitutes approximately 3 percent of Cigna’s 
total revenue. We currently offer health insurance products on the 
exchanges in five States, four of which — Arizona, Florida, Ten- 
nessee, and Texas — are Federally-facilitated marketplaces. The 
only state-run exchange in which Cigna is participating is in Colo- 
rado. 

We have entered the exchanges on a focus basis in 2014 to gath- 
er deeper learning about consumer behaviors in the individual 
market, to understand the operational implications of how the ex- 
changes function, and as a potential longer-term source of growth 
for Cigna. For 2014, we did not expect the exchanges to have a sig- 
nificant financial impact on our company. The health insurance 
marketplace is evolving rapidly, and Cigna, like other health insur- 
ance companies, is constantly challenged to maintain affordability, 
accessibility, and consumer choice in its product offerings. 

Cigna has worked collaboratively with our clients and customers, 
health care professionals, state, and Federal regulators as well as 
other stakeholders to maintain our heritage of providing high-qual- 
ity health insurance products and services while adapting to the 
ACA and other statutory and regulatory changes. 

We believe that health care is a shared responsibility of the indi- 
vidual, the private sector, the medical community and the govern- 



32 


ment. Accordingly, we look forward to how we can all work to- 
gether to improve the health and wellness of and the quality of 
care for all Americans. I’d welcome any questions that you may 
have. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Evanko follows:] 



33 


Testimony of Brian Evanko 
President, U.S. Individual Segment 
Cigna Corporation 

Hearing before the House Energy & Commerce Committee 
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 
“PPACA Enrollment and the Insurance Industry” 

May 7, 2014 

Chairman Murphy, Ranking Member DeGette, members of the 
Subcommittee, good morning and thank you for inviting me to testily at this 
hearing on “PPACA Enrollment and the Insurance Industry'.” 

I am Brian Evanko, and I currently serve as President of the U.S. Individual 
Segment at Cigna Corporation (“Cigna”). I oversee the operation tasked with 
developing, promoting, and maintaining the Cigna products offered in the 
individual health insurance market, including those products offered on the 
exchanges set up pursuant to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or 
“ACA.” 

Cigna is a global health setv'ice company dedicated to helping people 
improve their health, well-being, and sense of security. Through its subsidiaries, 
Cigna offers an integrated suite of health services, such as medical, dental, 
behavioral health, pharmacy, and vision care benefits, along with other related 
products including group disability, life, and accident coverage. We employ more 
than 26,000 people and have sales capability in 30 countries and Jurisdictions. We 
manage more than 80 million customer relationships throughout the world. 



34 


Despite our large footprint, 80 percent of Cigna’s overall health care 
business consists of administrative services. This means we help employers 
administer their policies. We also administer claims processes, which are not risk- 
based like traditional insurance. Many of the employers we assist are self-insuring 
and the claim payments come out of the employers’ funds. 

Cigna’s traditional insurance business is concentrated in the large group 
market. We have a very limited presence in the individual market, including on 
the ACA exchanges. The individual market constitutes approximately three 
percent of Cigna's total revenue. Currently, we offer health insurance products on 
the exchanges in five states, four of which — Arizona, Florida, Tennessee, and 
Texas — are part of the Federally-Facilitated Marketplace. The only state-run 
exchange in which Cigna is participating is located in Colorado. We have entered 
the exchanges on a focused basis in 2014 to gather deeper learning about consumer 
behaviors in the individual market, the operational implications of how the 
exchanges function, and as a potential longer term source of growth for Cigna. For 
2014, we did not expect the exchanges to have a significant financial impact on our 
company. 

The health insurance marketplace is evolving rapidly, and Cigna, like other 
health insurance companies, is constantly challenged to maintain affordability, 
accessibility, and consumer choice in its product oflerings. Cigna has worked 


2 



35 


collaboratively with our clients and customers, health care professionals, state and 
federal regulators, as well as other stakeholders to maintain our heritage of 
providing high quality health insurance products and services while adapting to the 
ACA and other statutory and regulatory' changes. Wc believe health care is a 
shared responsibility of the individual, the private sector, the medical community, 
and the government. Accordingly, we look forward to how we can all work 
together to improve the health and wellness of^ — and quality of care for — all 
Americans. 

I welcome any questions you may have. 



36 


Mr. Murphy. Mr. Evanko yields back, and now we go to Mr. Rod- 
gers to be recognized for 5 minutes. 

STATEMENT OF J. DARREN RODGERS 

Mr. Rodgers. Good morning, Chairman Murphy and members of 
the subcommittee. I’m Darren Rodgers 

Mr. Murphy. Bring the mic as close to you as possible because 
we can’t hear up here. Speak right into it. 

Mr. Rodgers. Good morning again, everyone. I’m Darren Rod- 
gers. I’m Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer at 
Health Care Service Corporation or HCSC. HCSC is a mutual 
legal-reserve company which does business as Blue Cross and Blue 
Shield of Illinois, Montana, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas. 
HCSC is the largest customer-owned nonprofit health insurance 
company in the Nation. We’re headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, 
with a workforce of nearly 20,000 employees serving nearly 14 mil- 
lion members throughout our five State Blue Cross and Blue Shield 
plans. 

For over 80 years, HCSC has been committed to expanding ac- 
cess to cost-effective health care to as many people as possible in 
every part of each of our five States. Whether through employer- 
sponsored insurance, government programs or individual products, 
HCSC is committed to its purpose and to offering our customers a 
wide range of cost-effective and sustainable product choices to meet 
their health and wellness needs. 

As we transition to a new health care marketplace, HCSC re- 
mains committed to its individual and small employer markets and 
continuing to offering accessible products, particularly to those in- 
dividuals who do not have access to employer-sponsored coverage. 

We’re proud of what our brand stands for: Security and peace of 
mind, and our commitment to our communities in which we oper- 
ate, as well as our large and geographically-diverse network of 
health care providers in our operating States. This allows us to 
offer a variety of affordable product choices in every county of every 
State in which we operate. 

To support our individual and small-employer market, HCSC 
participated in the health insurance exchanges. We offered a simi- 
lar portfolio of products both on and off exchange with a variety of 
deductibles, copays, coverages and other options with the goal of 
meeting our members’ diverse health care needs. 

At the current time, enrollment and payment information can 
only be presented as of each day when the numbers are counted. 
As such, there are natural lags between the effective date of cov- 
erage and the date on which the members’ coverage payment may 
be due. For instance, applicants with policies with an effective date 
of May 1 still have time remaining in their payment deadline. In 
addition, adjustments and reconciliations to this data are ongoing. 
The data HCSC is providing represents our good-faith estimate 
based on our records to date. 

With these caveats, HCSC received between October 1, 2013, and 
April 15, 2014, approximately 830,000 applications across our five 
States, comprised of approximately 600,000 on-exchange and 
230,000 off-exchange applications. We estimate that these 830,000 
applications represent coverage for just over 1.2 million applicants. 



37 


In the written copy of my opening statement, we provided a 
snapshot of our current first-month payment rates. As you can see, 
January through April looked fairly consistent and range from 83 
to 93 percent. The payment rates for May are currently less be- 
cause payments are still coming in and being posted. 

HCSC is and always has been committed to improving access to 
quality of care for all Americans. I thank you on behalf of HCSC 
for the opportunity to be a part of this important discussion. 

Mr. Murphy. I thank the gentleman. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Rodgers follows:] 



38 



BlueCross. BlueShield. 

Illinois • Montana • New Mexico 
Oklahoma * Texas 


Statement of J. Darren Rodgers, Senior Vice President & Chief Marketing Officer 
Health Care Service Corporation, d/b/a Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Illinois, Montana, 
New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas 
Hearing “PPACA Enrollment and the Insurance Industry” 

United Slates House of Representatives, Committee on Encrg>’ & Commerce 
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 
10:15 a.m. Wednesday, May 7, 2014 
2125 Rayburn House Office Building 


Introduction 


Good morning, Chairman Murphy and Members of the Subcommittee. I am Darren 
Rodgers, Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Health Care Service Corporation 
(“HCSC”), a Mutual Legal Reserve Company which does business as Blue Cross and Blue 
Shield of Illinois, Montana, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas. 

HCSC is the largest customer-owned, non-profit health insurance company in the nation. 
HCSC is headquartered in Chicago, Illinois with a workforce of nearly 20,000 employees 
sen'ing nearly 14 million members throughout our five-state Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans. 


HCSC’S Individual Consumer and Small Employer Business 


For over SO years, HCSC has been committed to expanding access to cost-effective 
health care to as many people as possible in every part of our five states. Whether through 
employer-sponsored insurance, government programs or individual products, HCSC is 
committed to its purpose and to offering our customers a wide range of cost-effective and 
sustainable product choices to meet their health and wellness needs. 

■ 1 - 

Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Illinois, Biue Cross and Blue Shield of Montana, Blue Cross and Blue Shield 
of New Mexico, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Oklahoma, and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Texas, 

Divisions of Hosi&t Care Service Corporation, a Mutual Legal Reserve Company, an Irxiepentlom Ltcensee of ifie Bice Cross and Biue Shield Associalion 



39 


As we transition to a new health care marketplace, HCSC remains committed to its 
individual and small employer market and to continuing to offer accessible products, particularly 
to those individuals who do not have access to employer sponsored coverage, are self-employed 
or unemployed. We are proud of what our brand stands for — security and peace of mind — and 
our commitment to the communities in which we operate, as well as our large and geographically 
diverse network of health care providers and professionals in our operating states. This structure 
and expertise allow us to offer a variety of affordable product choices in every county of every 
state in which we operate, to meet our customers’ needs. 

To support our individual and small employer market, HCSC participated in the health 
insurance exchanges. We offered a similar portfolio of products (e.g., PPO, HMO), both on and 
off exchange (i.e„ purchased directly through HCSC or a broker) for individuals and small 
employers with a variety of deductibles, co-pays, coverages and other options, with the goal of 
meeting our members’ diverse health care needs in a way that is understandable and easy to 
compare. 

HCSC’s Enrollment Experience 

At the current time enrollment and payment information (both on and off exchanges) can 
only be presented as of each day when the numbers are counted. As such, there are natural lags 
between the effective date of coverage and the date on which the member’s coverage payment 
may be due. For instance, applicants with policies with an effective date of May 1 may still have 
time remaining in their payment deadline. In addition, adjustments and reconciliations to this 
data occurring between the exchanges and HCSC during the implementation process are ongoing 
and will result in some adjustments to HCSC data. As such, the data HCSC is providing 
represents our good faith estimate based on our records to date. 


- 2 - 



40 


With those caveats, IICSC received between October 1, 2013 and April 15, 2014 
approximately 830,000 applications across our five states, comprised of approximately 600,000 
on-exchange and 230,000 off-exchange applications. We estimate that these 830,000 
applications represent coverage for just over 1.2 million applicants. 

Currently (and subject to any potential adjustments), IICSC records show the following 
first payment rates for policies with effective dates starting January 1, 2014: 



1/1/2014 

2/1/2014 

3/1/2014 

4/1/2014 

5/1/2014 

Exchange 

85% 

86% 

88% 

83% 

68% 

Off 

Exchange 

90% 

92% 

93% 


63% 


Payment information for May 1 effective date is not yet complete given that payment deadlines 
for all of those policies may not yet have passed. 

Conclusion 

UCSC is, and alway.s has been, committed to improving access to and quality of care for 
all Americans. I thank you on behalf of IICSC for the opportunity to be part of this important 
ongoing dialogue. 


- 3 - 




41 


Mr. Murphy. Now, Mr. Matheis, you are recognized for 5 min- 
utes. 


STATEMENT OF DENNIS MATHEIS 

Mr. Matheis. Chairman Murphy, Ranking Member DeGette and 
members of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on 
Oversight and Investigations thank you for the opportunity to be 
here today on behalf of WellPoint. I am Dennis Matheis, President 
of the Central Region and Exchange Strategy. I am responsible for 
creating WellPoint’s exchange strategy and overseeing its launch. 
Prior to my current role, I was President of Anthem Blue Cross 
and Blue Shield in Missouri. 

WellPoint is one of the Nation’s leading health benefit compa- 
nies. We believe that our health connects us all, so we focus on 
being a valued health partner in delivering quality products and 
services that give members access to the care they need. With 
nearly 67 million people served by our affiliated companies, includ- 
ing nearly 37 million enrolled in our family of health plans, we can 
make a real difference to meet the needs of our diverse constitu- 
ents. 

We are an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue 
Shield Association. We serve members as the Blue Cross licensee 
for California, and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for 
Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Mis- 
souri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Virginia, and 
Wisconsin. In most of these service areas, our plans do business as 
Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Blue 
Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia and Empire Blue Cross and Blue 
Shield or Empire Blue Cross. We also serve customers in other 
States through our Amerigroup and CareMore subsidiaries. 

WellPoint is currently operating in the federally-facilitated ex- 
change, which includes Georgia, Indiana, Maine, Missouri, New 
Hampshire, Ohio, Virginia, and Wisconsin. We also participate in 
several State-based exchanges, including California, Colorado, Con- 
necticut, Kentucky, New York and Nevada. 

While there is no doubt that implementation of the exchanges 
presents a complex and daunting undertaking, we believe we’ve 
been able to apply our knowledge and experience to make the sys- 
tem work better for our members. We are seeing strong member- 
ship growth and large percentages of our newly-enrolled customers 
are successfully paying their premiums by the due date. 

Our most important priority through all of the complexity of ACA 
implementation is to ensure that our members receive the best pos- 
sible care. Working closely and collaboratively with the physician 
community, our innovative programs from new payment models to 
telehealth solutions to sophisticated data analytics that arm physi- 
cians with better information, we are creating value for our mem- 
bers, for our physicians and for the health care system. We are 
proud of the work we are doing to transform health care. 

WellPoint was pleased to provide the committee last month with 
enrollment data from October 1, 2013, through April 15, 2014, for 
States where we participate in the federally-facilitated exchange. 
As we stated to the committee at the time of submission, this data 
is not final and only represents a snapshot in time. The data in- 



42 


eluded enrollees whose policies have effective dates of April 1, May 
1 and June 1, which means that premiums for such policies would 
not he due until April 10, May 10, and June 10, respectively. 

Also, the reported enrollment in premium payment data is sub- 
ject to adjustments. For example, enrollees may elect to drop their 
coverage, elect to change the effective date of their coverage after 
submission of their application, or continue to enroll through spe- 
cial enrollment periods. In response to the committee’s request, we 
submitted the total number of applications received for enrollment 
in the federally-facilitated exchange during the period of October 1, 
2013, through April 15, 2014. 

The percentage of applications that have paid a premium will dif- 
fer depending on whether the percentage is calculated based on the 
total number of applications and premium payments received dur- 
ing this entire period, roughly 70 percent; or as calculated based 
on the total number of applications and premium payments re- 
ceived for policies whose premium deadline has passed, ranging up 
to 90 percent depending on the State. 

WellPoint feels privileged to be able to serve our growing commu- 
nity of members. We take great pride in transforming health care 
with trusting, caring, creative and innovative solutions. I thank the 
committee for the opportunity to testify today on behalf of 
WellPoint and look forward to your questions. 

Mr. Murphy. Thank you. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Matheis follows:] 



43 


TESTIMONY 


PPACA Enrollment and the Insurance Industry 


Mr, Dennis Matheis 
WellPoint, Inc. 


Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 
Committee on Energy and Commerce 
U.S. House of Representatives 


Wednesday, May 7, 2014 


Page 1 of 4 


44 


Chairman Murphy, Ranking Member DeGette, and Members of the House Energy and 
Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, thank you for the opportunity to be 
here today on behalf of WellPoint. I am Dennis Matheis, President Central Region & Exchange 
Strategy. I am responsible for creating WellPoint's exchange strategy and overseeing its 
launch. Prior to my current role, I was President of Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield in 
Missouri. 

WellPoint is one of the nation's leading health benefits companies. We believe that our health 
connects us all. So we focus on being a valued health partner and delivering quality products 
and services that give members access to the care they need. With nearly 67 million people 
served by our affiliated companies, including nearly 37 million enrolled in our family of health 
plans, we can make a real difference to meet the needs of our diverse customers. 

We are an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. We serve 
members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield 
licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri, Nevada, New 
Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Virginia, and Wisconsin. In most of these service areas, our plans 
do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Blue Cross and Blue 
Shield of Georgia and Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield, or Empire Blue Cross. We also serve 
customers in other states through our Amerigroup and CareMore subsidiaries. 


Page 2 of 4 



45 


WellPoint is currently operating in the Federally Facilitated Exchange, which includes Georgia, 
Indiana, Maine, Missouri, New Hampshire, Ohio, Virginia and Wisconsin. We also participate in 
several state-based exchanges, including California, Colorado, Connecticut, Kentucky, New York, 
Nevada. While there is no doubt that implementation of the exchanges presents a complex 
and daunting undertaking, we believe we've been able to apply our knowledge and experience 
to make the system work better for our members. We are seeing strong membership growth 
and large percentages of our newly enrolled customers are successfully paying their premiums 
by the due date. 

Our most important priority through all of the complexity of ACA implementation is to ensure 
that Qur members receive the best possible care. Working closely and collaboratively with the 
physician community, our innovative programs - from new payment models to telehealth 
solutions to sophisticated data analytics that arm physicians with better information - are 
creating value for our members, for physicians, and for the health care system. We are proud 
of the work we are doing to transform health care. 

WellPoint was pleased to provide the Committee last month with enrollment data from 
October 1, 2013 through April 15, 2014 for states where we participate in the Federally 
Facilitated Exchange. As we stated to the Committee at the time of submission - this data is 
not final and only represents a snap-shot in time. The data included onrollees whose policies 
have effective dates of April 1, May 1, and June 1 - which means that premiums for such 
policies would not be due until April lo'''. May lo'*' and June 10'^ respectively Also, the 


Page 3 of 4 



46 


reported enrollment and premium payment data is subject to adjustments. For example, 
enrollees may elect to drop their coverage, elect to change the effective date of their coverage 
after submission of their application, or continue to enroll through special enrollment periods. 

In response to the Committee's request, we submitted the total number of applications 
received for enrollment in the Federally Facilitated Exchange during the period October 1, 2013 
through April 15, 2014. The percentage of applicants that have paid a premium will differ 
depending on whether the percentage is calculated based on the total number of applications 
and premium payments received during this entire time period {roughly 70 percent) or is 
calculated based on the total number of applications and premium payments received for 
policies whose premium deadline has passed (ranging up to 90 percent depending on the 
state), 

WellPoint feels privileged to be able to serve our growing community of members. We take 
great pride in transforming health care with trusted, caring, creative and innovative solutions, 
i thank the Committee for the opportunity to testify today on behalf 
of WellPoint and look forward to your questions. 


Page 4 of 4 



47 


Mr. Murphy. For the record, all the witnesses did not go over 
time, and we’ll make sure we fill in the gaps here what has not 
heen provided to us and see if we can get some information. 

Do any of you, particularly from the insurance companies — I’m 
recognizing myself for 5 minutes, by the way — have any data 
among those people who have subscribed, if the costs they are pay- 
ing for their overall health insurance plan is more, less, or the 
same as they were paying in a previous year? Mr. Wingle, do you 
keep that data? 

Mr. Wingle. I don’t have that data available. 

Mr. Murphy. Mr. Evanko, do you know if your plan has that? 

Mr. Evanko. I don’t have specific figures to share. I can try to 
provide some context. 

Mr. Murphy. Would you submit it for the record. 

Mr. Rodgers, Mr. Matheis, do your plans keep a record of what 
people paid in a previous year versus what they’re paying now? 

Mr. Rodgers. No, I haven’t looked at that information. 

Mr. Murphy. Thank you. 

And of those who all have signed up for insurance, do any of your 
companies ask for or have any data if people were among those 
who had lost their insurance, that is their insurance was canceled 
because of change in the Affordable Care Act? Any of you from in- 
surance companies, do any of you have that data? 

Mr. Matheis. We currently do not have that information avail- 
able. 

Mr. Murphy. OK. All right. Thank you. 

So we don’t know if the people who were signing up with these 
health insurance plans are people who are renewing insurance, had 
lost insurance or never had insurance, am I correct? Mr. Wingle? 
Mr. Evanko? Mr. Rodgers? Matheis? 

Mr. Matheis. That’s correct. 

Mr. Murphy. I know Secretary Sebelius said that she did not 
think we had that data either. 

Mr. Wingle, your Chief Executive, Mark Bertolini, said that pre- 
mium rates in 2015 will range from very low single digits to some 
that will be over double digits. Can consumers expect this for their 
2015 premiums? 

Mr. Wingle. It’s important to recognize, first of all, that we’re 
at the start of the rate filing and approval process, so we’re very 
early in the process of establishing those rates and submitting 
them to State regulators for approval and review. Our rates, it’s 
also important to understand, reflect a number of key factors, most 
importantly the benefits covered by the plans we’re filing, the pop- 
ulation covered by those plans and the underlying health care costs 
in the geographies where those plans are offered. There will be 
some variability across geography and depending on those cir- 
cumstances. 

Mr. Murphy. Some might face double-digit increases? We don’t 
know yet, you’re saying? 

Mr. Wingle. I can’t say for certain whether some will pay double 
digits, single digits or no increase at all. It’s too early to say. 

Mr. Murphy. If there’s no increase in insurance, we should all 
celebrate because I’m not sure that has existed in my lifetime. 

Will there be decreases? 



48 


Mr. WiNGLE. It’s hard to say. It will vary by geography and rat- 
ing factors. 

Mr. Murphy. All right. Mr. Matheis, you announced your quar- 
terly earnings and noted that the ramp-up in the fee of government 
is charging insurers under the health care law would impact mar- 
ketplace premiums next year. What can consumers expect? 

Mr. Matheis. So similar to my colleague’s comment, we are in 
the process of developing our rates now for the 138 rating regions 
in which we do business across the 14 states. So I don’t have exact 
numbers yet, chairman, in terms of what our rate increases are 
going to be. Certainly, inputs into that are the experience that 
we’re developing through the population that we’re serving, the ex- 
pected medical trend that’s going to occur and then the fees and 
taxes that occur through the ACA and through State and other 
Federal constructs, that all goes into the rate construct process. 

Mr. Murphy. I think I’m going down the same hole with each of 
you, so let me cut to the chase. The bottom line here is, you do get 
for risk corridors, you do get some money back from the Federal 
Government to balance out some of your costs, am I correct, with 
each plan? Mr. Evanko, is that true? 

Mr. Evanko. The risk corridors, as you know, sir, are part of the 
three Rs. We at Cigna Corporation are not expecting a material, re- 
ceivable or payable, as it relates to risk corridors. 

Mr. Murphy. My point is that, as we’re looking at this data — and 
we’ll continue to monitor and we recognize some of this is still pre- 
liminary — based upon who has signed up and what their health 
care costs are, for example, if you don’t reach the 40-percent num- 
ber that the President had hoped, people between 18 and 35, and 
mostly those who signed up have been the older and sicker, then 
that’s going to have an impact upon your plan costs. Am I correct, 
Mr. Rodgers? 

Mr. Rodgers. Could you restate that question? 

Mr. Murphy. That if people who have signed up are not the 
young, healthy invincibles but are indeed the older folks who have 
preexisting conditions and other health care costs, that you’re going 
to have to face some sort of increase in premiums. Am I correct? 

Mr. Rodgers. Well, as two of my colleagues have said, the rates 
that we file for 2015 haven’t been finalized yet, but those will re- 
flect — 

Mr. Murphy. I understand. I am anticipating. You’ve been in the 
business for a while. 

And the Federal Government does provide some funds for you to 
help balance these out. Am I correct? Federal money comes to you 
to help as the risk corridors, and you have other people there who, 
the increased — costs go up. Am I correct? 

Mr. WiNGLE. The three Rs program does exist to provide some 
guard rails. We have not 

Mr. Murphy. Right. And but over time, that amount of money 
from the Federal Government will decline. Am I correct? 

Mr. WiNGLE. Some of those programs are transitional and one’s 
permanent. 

Mr. Murphy. I understand. But we’ll get back to this. Thank 
you. 

I yield and now recognize Ms. DeGette for 5 minutes. 



49 


Ms. DeGette. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, the major- 
ity Republicans on this committee put out a report stating that 
only 67 percent of the people who signed up for insurance through 
the State and Federal marketplaces had paid their first month’s 
premiums and then had a big press blitz about that saying that 
Obamacare had once again failed. So I kind of want to walk some 
of you through that allegation and see how true it is. 

I want to start with you, Mr. Matheis. I believe that the press 
reports I’ve seen, the reports from the administration show that 
through the end of March, which was the deadline, about 8.1 peo- 
ple enrolled through either the Federal or State exchanges. Is that 
correct, to your knowledge? 

Mr. Matheis. Did you mean 8.1 million? 

Ms. DeGette. Yes. 

Mr. Matheis. Yes. I have the same source of data that you do 
on that point. 

Ms. DeGette. That’s fine. 

Now, in your testimony, you said that the data used in that Re- 
publican analysis, quote, included enrollees whose policies have ef- 
fective dates of April 1, May 1, and June 1. Is that correct? 

Mr. Matheis. Yes. 

Ms. DeGette. And that’s about 3 million out of 8 million people, 
about 40 percent. Is that correct? 

Mr. Matheis. Again, since we didn’t enroll all 8 million people, 
I can’t attest to that question or not. 

Ms. DeGette. But, OK. Well, I will say what I’ve seen is it’s 
about 3 million out of 8 million. Now, so the 3 million people who 
enrolled — or let me just say, the people who enrolled in March, 
they had coverage, in general, that began no earlier than May 1. 
Is that right? 

Mr. Matheis. If you enrolled in March, you would have poten- 
tially an effective date, depending on what day of the month you 
enrolled in, could be April 1, could have been May 1. 

Ms. DeGette. May 1. And so those peoples’ premiums were not 
due until at the earliest, the end of April; is that correct? If you 
enrolled March 31, your premiums were due at the end of April or 
later, right? 

Mr. Matheis. To help facilitate members enrolling, what we 
have done at WellPoint is actually extended the payment period 10 
days beyond the last day of the effective month. 

Ms. DeGette. So it could be April 30, or it could be even later, 
correct? 

Mr. Matheis. So an April 1 

Ms. DeGette. Yes or no will work. 

Mr. Matheis. An April 1 effective 

Ms. DeGette. Right. 

Mr. Matheis. [continuing]. Would actually have until May 10 to 
pay their premium. 

Ms. DeGette. OK. Now, Mr. Matheis, let me ask you, your testi- 
mony said, while WellPoint ACA’s policies whose deadline for pay- 
ing premiums has passed, about 90 percent have paid their pre- 
miums. Is that correct? 

Mr. Matheis. So our data in our 



50 


Ms. DeGette. You can say yes or no. That’s what your testimony 
said. 

Mr. Matheis. Yes. So it’s 

Ms. DeGette. OK. Now, that’s more than 67 percent. Is that cor- 
rect? 

Mr. Matheis. Last time I looked, yes. Greater than 67. 

Ms. DeGette. Now, Mr. Wingle, let me take you off the hot seat, 
Mr. Matheis. 

Mr. Wingle, I want to ask you, Aetna has shown of the 5- to 600 
enrollees who have paid, about 85 percent up until March paid 
their premiums. Is that correct? 

Mr. Wingle. Our range is in the low- to mid-80s, month to 
month. 

Ms. DeGette. OK. And that’s also more than 67 percent, isn’t it? 

Mr. Wingle. Empirically, yes. 

Ms. DeGette. Yes. 

And Mr. Rodgers, let me ask you, for your company, the ACA 
payment policies whose premium payment deadlines have passed, 
about 83 to 85 percent of them have paid their premiums; is that 
correct? 

Mr. Rodgers. Yes, except for the most recent month. 

Ms. DeGette. Right. The ones whose payment deadlines have 
passed. 

Mr. Rodgers. Yes, that is correct. 

Ms. DeGette. Yes. And that’s also more than 67 percent, isn’t 
it? 

Mr. Rodgers. That is more than 67 percent. 

Ms. DeGette. Yes. So what I wanted to ask about is, do any of 
you expect to see substantially lower payment percentages than 
you saw historically before the latest enrollment? Mr. Matheis. 

Mr. Matheis. So I will give a little context to my answer. 

Ms. DeGette. OK. I need a yes or no. I don’t have much time. 
I’m sorry. 

Mr. Matheis. Well 

Ms. DeGette. Do you expect to see it go down to 67 percent for 
April? 

Mr. Matheis. I don’t think we have enough information to know 
exactly where it’s going to be. 

Ms. DeGette. OK. Well, Mr. Rodgers, let me ask you this ques- 
tion, then: Mr. Upton said that he thinks suddenly, maybe they 
won’t pay for their enrollment in March. So I wanted to kind of go 
through, because you’ve got a nice chart in your testimony and it 
shows the payments month by month that people made when they 
enrolled. So for 1/1/2014 on the exchange, 85 percent of the people 
paid; is that correct? 

Mr. Rodgers. That’s correct. 

Ms. DeGette. For 2/1/2014, 86 percent paid, correct? 

Mr. Rodgers. That’s correct. 

Ms. DeGette. For 3/1/2014, 88 percent paid; is that correct? 

Mr. Rodgers. Yes. 

Ms. DeGette. And for 4/1/2014, 83 percent paid; is that correct? 

Mr. Rodgers. That is correct. 

Ms. DeGette. And you’re still waiting for everybody else to pay 
because their deadline has not passed yet; is that correct? 



51 


Mr. Rodgers. That’s correct. 

Ms. DeGette. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 

Mr. Murphy. Can I just follow up with a clarifying question: 
When she asked about historical data, were you referring to the 
last couple months or comparison with previous years under dif- 
ferent plans? 

Ms. DeGette. Well, we didn’t have an exchange. 

Mr. Murphy. No, no, I just 

Ms. DeGette. Chairman, we only just got the exchange. 

Mr. Murphy. No, I wasn’t sure if you meant under historical you 
mean previous years of plans versus just the exchange. 

Ms. DeGette. Mr. Chairman, what I mean is since the ACA was 
implemented starting on October 1. 

Mr. Murphy. OK. Thank you. I just wanted clarification on that. 

Now recognize Ms. Blackburn for 5 minutes. 

Mrs. Blackburn. Thank you all so much for being with us. I 
want to say with this issue on the premiums because we get asked 
about this a lot. 

So Mr. Wingle, Aetna, your CEO said that premium increases 
will vary over 17 States and encompass 132 rating areas, correct? 

Mr. Wingle. That is correct. 

Mrs. Blackburn. OK. Can you identify where premiums will de- 
crease in 2015? What identification can you place on that? 

Mr. Wingle. At this point in the filing season, we can’t offer any 
guidance on or speculate on where they’re going to fall. We’re still 
gathering the information for file. 

Mrs. Blackburn. None? 

Mr. Wingle. I can’t say none. I can’t say any. 

Mrs. Blackburn. OK. Mr. Matheis, can you tell me, identify any 
States where you are offering products in the exchanges where con- 
sumers can expect a premium decrease? 

Mr. Matheis. At this juncture, we do not have the information. 

Mrs. Blackburn. You don’t have the information? 

Mr. Matheis. No. The filing rates are due starting in late May 
into June, and so we have not computed yet with any certainty 
what the actual rates are going to look like in our 138 rating re- 
gions. 

Mrs. Blackburn. OK. A lot of uncertainty floating around out 

fVipvp 

OK, Mr. Evanko. 

Mr. Evanko. I would echo my colleague’s comments. We’re in the 
process making decisions. Some decisions on certain assumptions 
have been made, but most assumptions are still to be determined. 

Mrs. Blackburn. So you don’t know if your consumers are going 
to see any decreases. You know they were promised decreases 
through the Affordable Care Act, so. 

OK, Mr. Rodgers, to you. 

Mr. Rodgers. As the company’s marketing officer, I can tell you 
I’m not involved in rate setting, but I’m aware of some of the dead- 
lines we’re facing which are generally toward the end of June. 

Mrs. Blackburn. OK. Well, let me ask you all this, then: Have 
any of you conducted any internal analysis of what your organiza- 
tions premiums are going to look in 2015? Do any of you have any 
internal analysis? Raise your hand for me. So you all have con- 



52 


ducted no — we’ve got some of our Nation’s biggest insurers, and 
you have done no internal analysis on what the trend line is for 
these premiums? None? 

Mr. Evanko. Ms. Blackburn 

Mrs. Blackburn. Oh, Mr. Evanko, have at it. 

Mr. Evanko. So I’d like to clarify our comments here a little bit, 
or at least my comments as it relate to this issue. So the decisions 
related to this are very complicated and they impact each indi- 
vidual a little bit differently because of where someone’s located, 
maybe what their APTC eligibility is, et cetera. So there’s a long 
list of reasons there. 

Mrs. Blackburn. Right. We understand that. You’re talking 
about a 2,300 page law that became about over 20,000 pages of 
rules and regulations and we know this changes daily. We appre- 
ciate the predicament that you are in. We also appreciate the pre- 
dicament that our constituents find themselves in. 

And it is baffling that we can have some of our Nation’s largest 
insurers and you all don’t have any internal analysis as to what 
these rates are — I thought that, reading your reports, you all did 
analysis in trend lines for the near-term, the midterm and the 
long-term and you looked at what the expectations were so that 
your stakeholders would all be aware of what was happening with- 
in that market. You know, has anybody done any kind of analysis? 

Mr. Matheis. So can I answer your question? 

Mrs. Blackburn. Yes, please. Have at it, Mr. Matheis. Your mic, 
please. 

Mr. Matheis. So analysis is typically ongoing in our organiza- 
tion. Rate development typically takes 3 to 6 months to occur once 
you have credible information. And so just for context purposes, we, 
and as has been stated earlier in this meeting 

Mrs. Blackburn. Let me 

Mr. Matheis. Let me finish. 

Mrs. Blackburn. OK. Go ahead. 

Mr. Matheis. [continuing]. We are just now understanding what 
membership we have attracted and so the work is ongoing, but it 
has not been finalized. And that’s the important point. 

Mrs. Blackburn. Let me ask you this: What has been prepared 
for your CEO? Any of you? 

Mr. Matheis. At this juncture, we do not have a compiled pack- 
age to sit down and say, here is what we believe a rate is going 
to be in any of our 130 rate areas. 

Mrs. Blackburn. When do you expect to have that? 

Mr. Matheis. Typically, it will be towards the end of this month, 
as rates need to be filed in our States starting end of May through 
the June or July time period. 

Mrs. Blackburn. Would you submit that to us for the record, 
each of you. Do you agree to submit this for the record so that we 
will have this? 

Mr. WiNGLE. And representative, I want to concur with my col- 
league, we are constantly analyzing our exchange experience. This 
is a new population. We don’t have the long claims record or his- 
tory we had in the previous market, so the more data we get the 
better and more confident we feel as we propose rates. It’s an ongo- 
ing analysis. It’s a constant analysis. 



53 


Mrs. Blackburn. OK. We appreciate that, and we would like to 
have that analysis and the information you have as you get it and 
ask that you please stay in touch with us and do those orderly in- 
sertions for the record. 

I yield back, Mr. Chairman. 

Mr. Murphy. Gentlewoman yields back, and now recognize Mr. 
Dingell for 5 minutes. 

Mr. Dingell. Mr. Chairman, I thank you for your courtesy and 
I thank you for the hearing. I’m pleased the committee is exam- 
ining the first open enrollment period under the Affordable Care 
Act. I would like to examine the staff report where it claims only 
67 percent of Obamacare enrollees have paid their first month’s 
premium. We want to find out whether that’s so and what it 
means. 

The bottom line, I think, is the ACA is working. After a turbu- 
lent start we got the Web site up. It’s running and HHS now re- 
ports that 8 million people have selected plans through the ex- 
changes. Furthermore, some 4.8 million people are enrolled in Med- 
icaid and CHIP, and that number would be much higher if all 50 
States chose to expand Medicaid. 

CBO estimates that another 5 million people purchased ACA- 
compliant plans outside the marketplaces. Finally, Gallup just 
found that the percentage of Americans who do not have health in- 
surance fell to 13.4 percent, down from some 18 percent 1 year ago. 

So let’s examine and see what goes on. 

This question to Mr. Matheis. And “yes” or “no,” if you would, 
please. When WellPoint turned over enrollment figures to the ma- 
jority, you did this under the caveat that the data was not final 
and only represented a snapshot in time. Is that correct? 

Mr. Matheis. Yes, it is. 

Mr. Dingell. Yes? 

Mr. Matheis. Yes. 

Mr. Dingell. Now, this question, again to you, Mr. Matheis. And 
that is because the committee only requested data through April 
15, 2014; is that correct? 

Mr. Matheis. Yes, it is. 

Mr. Dingell. Now, Mr. Matheis, is it correct that the people who 
signed up after May 15 may not have to pay their premium until 
later in April, May, or even June, yes or no? 

Mr. Matheis. Is there anybody after April 15th, would have — 
would have a longer time 

Mr. Dingell. Those folks who signed up after March 15th. 

Mr. Matheis. Yes. 

Mr. Dingell. Now, Mr. Matheis, is it correct that nearly 90 per- 
cent of WellPoint’s customers whose premium deadline has passed 
have already paid their first month’s premium, yes or no? 

Mr. Matheis. Yes, it is. 

Mr. Dingell. Now, in your experience, have you found that peo- 
ple are more likely to make their premium payment right before 
the deadline? 

Mr. Matheis. That is typically human nature, sir. 

Mr. Dingell. And we know that from the behavior of Americans 
with regard to income tax and things like that. 



54 


Now, this question is for Mr. Wingle of Aetna. Is it correct that, 
according to your best estimate, roughly 80 percent of Aetna bene- 
ficiaries who have reached their payment due date have paid their 
first month’s premium, yes or no? 

Mr. Wingle. Month to month, it ranges from the low to mid 80s. 

Mr. Dingell. Say that again? 

Mr. Wingle. It ranges from the low to mid 80s, month by month. 

Mr. Dingell. Thank you. 

Now, this question is for you, Mr. Coyne of Blue Cross-Blue 
Shield. Is it correct that, according to your best estimate, 80 to 85 
percent of the individuals buying Blue Cross-Blue Shield plans 
through the marketplace have paid their first month’s premiums, 
yes or no? 

Mr. Coyne. Yes, that is correct. 

Mr. Dingell. I’m not hearing you, sir. 

Mr. Coyne. Yes, that is correct, based on 

Mr. Dingell. That’s correct. 

Mr. Coyne, [continuing]. A report we 

Mr. Dingell. Now, gentlemen, it doesn’t take, I think, a genius 
or an atomic physicist to figure out the numbers we just heard 
from the actual insurance companies greatly differ from the staff 
report. I hope everyone will take these companies at their word in- 
stead of falling for smoke and mirrors from my friends on the other 
side of the aisle. 

I can understand why my friends on the other side of the aisle 
are not in attendance, because they would get a very unpleasant 
taste of fact which they might not like. My old daddy taught me, 
he used to say to me, “Son, figures don’t lie, but liars can figure.” 

And I have always thought that it would be a good thing, when 
this committee does its business, that we know what we are doing, 
that we deal in hard facts, so that when the legislation that we 
work on, the laws that we are dealing with, the oversight in which 
we engage actually lead us to truth and correct response, so that 
public policies may be founded on fact rather than fiction and on 
staff reports that mislead all. 

I would suggest that the staff report should be reviewed with the 
utmost of care and deposited then very carefully in the nearest 
large wastebasket. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Mr. Murphy. The gentleman yields back. 

I now recognize the Vice Chair of the committee. Dr. Burgess, for 
5 minutes. 

Mr. Burgess. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank you for the rec- 
ognition. 

I would remind the chairman emeritus that we are friends. 

Let me ask you a question. April 17th, the day the President 
came out with his “mission accomplished” speech at the White 
House in the press briefing, there was a briefing of executives of 
your companies; is that correct? 

Anyone is free to answer. 

Mr. Matheis. I believe that was correct, sir. 

Mr. Rodgers. That is correct, yes. 

Mr. Burgess. And was your company represented? 



55 


Mr. Rodgers. I’m not sure which particular meeting you’re de- 
scribing, but I know there have been some. 

Mr. Burgess. Well, let me give you the particular meeting. It 
was on April the 17th at 1:35 p.m., the President and Vice Presi- 
dent meet with insurance executives in the Roosevelt Room. 

Did that meeting take place? 

Mr. Matheis. WellPoint was present at that meeting, sir. 

Mr. Burgess. WellPoint was present. 

Was Cigna present? 

Mr. Evanko. Our CEO was not present at that meeting. 

Mr. Burgess. Your — was not. OK. 

Mr. WiNGLE. I’m advised that our CEO was not present at that 
meeting. 

Mr. Burgess. That was Blue Cross? 

Mr. WiNGLE. That’s Aetna for me. 

Mr. Burgess. Was Blue Cross represented at the meeting? 

Mr. Coyne. I don’t have that information right now. 

Mr. Burgess. Well, for those that were 

Mr. Pratt. And just for the record. I’m advised that AHIP’s 
President was present at the meeting. 

Mr. Rodgers. And I don’t — I can’t remember the exact date of 
those meetings, but I can tell you that when we are called to the 
White House, generally we would attempt to be there. 

Mr. Burgess. Well, it was April 17th. I mean, I would think 
you’d remember. It’s a pretty big deal. I mean, I haven’t had a 
meeting with the President or the Vice President. 

Ms. DeGette. Would the gentleman yield? Perhaps 

Mr. Burgess. No, I will not. No, I will not. My time is limited. 

What I would like, from those that answered affirmatively, Mr. 
Matheis and Mr. Pratt, can you provide us information as to what 
was covered in that meeting — who made the presentation, how long 
it was? And was there, in fact, time for there to be question and 
answer, or was it simply a presentation to you from the President 
and Vice President? 

Mr. Matheis. Mr. Congressman, I was not personally present at 
that meeting, our CEO was, and I do not know the facts of the 
meeting. 

Mr. Burgess. Would you make an attempt to answer for me 
those questions? Was this an interactive process, or was this a 
proclamation? Was it a monologue, or was it a dialogue? 

And, Mr. Pratt, if you would provide us that information, as well. 

And here is the deal. I mean, why am I making a big deal of 
this? You all are here today because the White House won’t re- 
spond to us. And I would think, if it was possible for the White 
House to provide a briefing to your executives on April 17th, that 
same person could be made available to this committee and be pre- 
pared to answer our questions. I don’t see what is so difficult about 
that. If the news is as great as everyone has said it is this morning, 
I think that they would welcome the opportunity to come to our 
committee and give us the information that we are asking for. 

Look, one of the questions that I raised in the opening statement, 
and I do want your answers on this because it is important, this 
90-day grace period and the coverage that can’t be cancelled during 
that 90-day grace period because of nonpayment. Is there any way 



56 


for any of your individual companies to keep up with that informa- 
tion on a rolling basis and keep your providers informed as to the 
status of a person’s payment or nonpayment of their premium? 

We’ll start with you, Mr. Coyne, and let’s just work down the 
table. 

Mr. Coyne. We are working with Blue Plans to inform providers 
of the enrollee’s status, as you indicated. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Wingle? 

Mr. Wingle. Yes. We do have a unique identifier for our ex- 
change membership on the ID card, and we do provide updates on 
the member’s payment status in our physician information centers. 
So when the physician offices call or the provider calls, they under- 
stand what the payment status is of the member. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Evanko? 

Mr. Evanko. Our doctors and our hospitals that are servicing 
our customers have the ability to either call or check online the 
status of the individual’s payment grace-period situation. 

Mr. Burgess. And, Mr. Rodgers, would that even pertain to you? 

Mr. Rodgers. Yes. Similarly, we have electronic means as well 
as a telephone service for providers of various types to verify cov- 
erage. 

Mr. Burgess. And Mr. Matheis? 

Mr. Matheis. Yes, we provide the same service. 

Mr. Burgess. And what I would ask of each of you is, will you 
make available to the committee the type of information and how 
it is transferred to your providers, your doctors and hospitals, when 
they call for that information? 

And then, Mr. Chairman, further, I would like to ask unanimous 
consent — the Secretary was here in December, the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services. After that hearing, I submitted a let- 
ter to the Secretary with several questions that I wanted answered. 
They have not been answered to date. 

I am going to ask those same questions of our insurance rep- 
resentatives today. I am going to ask those in writing, and I would 
appreciate your response to those questions that the Secretary was 
unwilling to answer. 

Ms. DeGette. Reserving the right to object. I would just point 
out that the Secretary was here in front of this committee testi- 
fying three times last year. And if there are questions she has not 
answered, we certainly will be happy to work with the majority 
and get those questions answered. 

Mr. Murphy. Well, the Members do have the right to 

Ms. DeGette. I will drop my reservation. 

Mr. Murphy, [continuing]. Submit questions for panelists. 

Mr. Burgess. And I will be submitting those questions in writing 
for our panel. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Mr. Murphy. Mr. Green, you are now recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. Green. Thank you. Chairman Murphy and Ranking Member 
DeGette, for having this hearing today, and our witnesses for the 
testimony. 

My district in Texas is a very urban district in Houston and has 
one of the highest rates of uninsured people who don’t receive in- 
surance through their employer in the country. 



57 


One of the other talking points that my Republican colleagues 
have seized upon last year, especially when the HealthCare.gov 
was encountering problems early in the enrollment period, was the 
idea that fewer people would have health insurance following the 
implementation of the Affordable Care Act than did beforehand. 

Now, I know that all our representatives here today see that the 
information and how many people they have enrolled and their 
total number of customers are proprietary, and I understand that. 
But you are all also, I would hope, familiar with the general insur- 
ance landscape and how it has changed under the Affordable Care 
Act. 

Earlier this week, the Gallup Poll released a survey examining 
the total number of Americans that have insurance. 

Mr. Pratt, are you familiar with that survey? 

Mr. Pratt. Generally, yes. 

Mr. Green. The Gallup Poll conducted interviews with 14,000 
American adults. Gallup found that the number of adults without 
insurance had dropped to its lowest level since the beginning of 
2008. A drop of this magnitude correlates to more than 11 million 
people gaining coverage. 

Are you familiar enough with the poll to say that that sounds 
like a reasonable amount? 

Mr. Pratt. Congressman, I think that’s what they reported. I’m 
not in a position to say whether that’s a reasonable amount or not. 

Mr. Green. OK. 

Anyone else on the panel want to talk about that Gallup poll? 
Because, you know, again, these are what we are seeing since the 
enrollment period ended. 

RAND and The Urban Institute released similar reports in 
March and April. Are any of you familiar with these reports? 

Mr. Matheis. Just very generally. Congressman. 

Mr. Evanko. I’m not familiar with the reports. 

Mr. Green. OK. Well, in early April, RAND Corporation released 
the results of their poll, which found the overall number of Ameri- 
cans with insurance had grown to 9.3 million as of mid-March, 
even before the late enrollment date surge. The Urban Institute 
also released a report in the past month suggesting that millions 
more people have coverage than before the ACA was implemented. 

My question of any of our witnesses: Would you agree that the 
findings of these, whether it be RAND, Gallup, or The Urban Insti- 
tute, are consistent with millions of Americans signing up for 
health insurance? Did you all experience that with your companies 
during the signup, that they selected your company as part of the — 
if you happened to be part of the exchange, both national or the 
State exchanges? 

Mr. Matheis. Congressman, at WellPoint, we do not have 
enough information at this point to know how many uninsured are 
actually among the enrollees, because we just don’t have access to 
that data at this point. 

Mr. Green. OK. 

Well, generally, the ACA has led to a huge increase in coverage. 
Even without the polls, we have seen some of the numbers. And 
can you verify that with your companies, whether it would be 
WellPoint, Blue Cross? Have you seen that increase in the number 



58 


of people who have signed up with your companies since the dead- 
line? 

Mr. Rodgers. Speaking for Healthcare Service Corporation, I 
provided in my written testimony as well as in my opening com- 
ments the number of people that we signed up on- and off-exchange 
through the open enrollment period. I can’t tell you today how 
many of those came from the ranks of the uninsured or from our 
competitors or either from a prior policy with one of our five Blue 
Cross and Blue Shield plans, but we’re certainly happy to have the 
numbers up. 

Mr. Green. OK. 

Well, and we understand there were people who were using the 
Web sites and the national exchange to shop. And I had some com- 
panies who said. I’m a small business, I encourage — in fact, I have 
a number of them in my area. He said, we have actually helped our 
employees sign up individually, because, you know, you have 10 
employees, they weren’t required, but they actually used it. And I 
know that’s an analogy, but I have heard that from a lot of my em- 
ployers. 

Now, I know my Republican colleagues, with the missed data 
from these polls, that anything that comes through the administra- 
tion for the overall signup — in March, Speaker Boehner said that 
there were less people today with health insurance than there were 
before this law went into effect. 

I think, not even basing it on a poll, would you all agree that 
there are more people that have health insurance now, let’s say 
since May 1st, than we had before the ACA? 

Mr. Pratt. I can’t speak to numbers on that enrollment. 

Mr. Green. OK. 

I don’t know how my colleagues continue to make unfounded 
claims in the face of the clear evidence that the Affordable Care 
Act is providing millions of Americans with healthcare coverage. It 
makes me wonder what would possibly convince them that millions 
of Americans have gained coverage under the law. I suspect that, 
ultimately, once the information becomes so indisputable, that it 
maybe will change the subject and, rather, concede that clearly 
more people have health insurance as a result of the ACA. 

And having served many years in Congress and even before that 
in the State legislature in Texas, no law Congress ever passes is 
perfect. That’s not how our forefathers created the system. So we 
do need to go back, like our ranking member said, and see what 
we can do to fix the ACA. And I appreciate you all’s efforts to help 
us do that once we get to that point. 

And I will yield back my time. 

Mr. Murphy. The gentleman yields back. 

I now recognize Mr. Griffith of Virginia for 5 minutes. 

Mr. Griffith. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 

Thank you all for being here. 

Ms. Blackburn asked you earlier for a show of hands, and I am 
going to do the same. If your company anticipates a reduction for 
the average family that you insure of $2,500 or more, would you 
raise your hand? 

If your company anticipates a reduction in premium of $2,000 
per average family for your subscribers, raise your hand. 



59 


Same for $1,500? 

All right. I appreciate that. 

When will your companies submit their rates to the administra- 
tion for 2015? Do you all have a date that you’re going to do that 
by? We’ll start with 

Mr. Rodgers. I believe the 

Mr. Griffith. Yes? 

Mr. Rodgers, [continuing]. Rates are due toward the end of 
June. I believe it’s June 27th. I think that some of the States are 
a little bit ahead of that. 

Mr. Griffith. All right. And do you know when those will be- 
come public? 

Mr. Matheis. Depending on the market, sir, that will vary, de- 
pending on the States. 

Mr. Griffith. All right. 

And when you submit those to the administration, will you com- 
mit today to submitting those rates to us, as well? 

Mr. Rodgers. I’m not involved in the rate submission process, 
but to the extent that’s possible — I’ll need to talk with our company 
representatives about that. 

Mr. Griffith. Well, I certainly can’t see how it would be illegal 
to share information with the United States Congress, but 

Mr. Rodgers. I didn’t say “illegal.” 

Mr. Griffith. But if possible, you will do it, Mr. Rodgers? 

Mr. Rodgers. I need to confirm with our actuaries who are in- 
volved in the rate-filing process, because I’m not. 

Mr. Matheis. We are happy to work with this committee as long 
as the rates remain proprietary until they do become public and all 
of our competitors see them. 

Mr. Griffith. All right. That’s certainly fair. 

Any others? 

Mr. Wingle? 

Mr. Wingle. I’d have to take that under advisement about how 
we share rates. 

Mr. Griffith. Mr. Evanko? 

Mr. Evanko. I’d just say that the rates are very competitively 
sensitive, for obvious reasons. So we want to make sure that it’s 
a level playing field at the time any rates are disclosed. 

Mr. Griffith. Have either you or anyone in your organizations — 
and, again, it’s for all of you all — engaged in discussions with the 
administration already about the 2015 rates? 

Mr. Rodgers. Not that I’m aware of. 

Mr. Wingle. Not to my knowledge. 

Mr. Griffith. Everyone is silent. Does that mean there have 
been none? Has anyone had any discussions with the administra- 
tion about rates for 2015? 

Mr. Matheis. None that I’m aware of. 

Mr. Griffith. OK. 

Mr. Evanko. No. 

Mr. Rodgers. No. 

Mr. Griffith. All right. Appreciate that. Thank you very much. 

Mr. Pratt, the ACA includes a tax credit for small businesses to 
purchase health insurance coverage for employees. The law also 
levies a tax on health insurance purchased by small businesses. 



60 


On the one hand, we give employers a tax credit to make health 
insurance more affordable, and then we turn around with the other 
hand and we tax those policies. Does that not seem as an inherent 
conflict in policy to you? 

Mr. Pratt. Congressman, we have expressed significant concerns 
with the new tax on small businesses and individuals that total 
some $100 billion that will largely be passed on to them in the 
form of higher premiums. 

Mr. Griffith. And what we are trying to do, of course, is to see 
if we can’t keep premiums down. And the ACA, Obamacare, has 
failed to meet its promise of a $2,500 reduction for the average 
family. That’s pretty straightforward, isn’t it? 

Mr. Pratt. Congressman, we do believe that the health insur- 
ance tax runs counter to the goal of providing more affordable cov- 
erage. 

Mr. Griffith. And as a part of this, we are actually taxing gov- 
ernment itself. We’ve got Federal programs, including Medicare Ad- 
vantage, Medicaid Managed Care. The Federal Government is, in 
fact, taxing itself with the tax that you spoke of earlier through its 
subsidization of Medicare and, in part, Medicaid. And then State 
governments are also having to pay the tax. 

Do you have any idea how much that tax is on the American peo- 
ple? You said $100 billion in increase, but how much for the Fed- 
eral and State governments? 

Mr. Pratt. Congressman, I don’t have that information handy. 
But we did commission a study by Oliver Wyman that does break 
out that information in more detail, including on a State-by-State 
basis, and we’d be happy to make that available. 

Mr. Griffith. All right. I appreciate that, if you would. 

Also, in your testimony, you write that insurers have many du- 
plicate enrollments because of the problems with HealthCare.gov. 
And I can tell you that we had that in both — I have heard it from 
constituents and in our family. Apparently, we didn’t push the 
right button the first time around. I say “we”; my wife did it all. 
Don’t want to take on any assumptions that it was us doing it; it 
was my wife working over the computer for hours and hours. But 
actually submitted several different applications, ended up with 
one. 

How widespread is that problem for citizens out there? And is 
that part of the confusion between whether or not people have paid 
their premiums or not? 

Mr. Pratt. Congressman, the challenge you referred to, I think, 
was presented as a result of the problems with the Web site and 
the technology. And, anecdotally, we have heard from our members 
about a number of duplicate enrollments. Don’t have an order of 
magnitude on that other than to know that it has been a problem 
and an issue. 

Mr. Griffith. All right. I appreciate that. 

And, Mr. Chairman, I yield back. 

Mr. Murphy. The gentleman yields back. 

I now recognize Ms. Schakowsky for 5 minutes. 

Ms. Schakowsky. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

This morning, the Democratic committee staff released a memo- 
randum on the amazing number of distortions and false claims that 



61 


Republicans have made about the Affordable Care Act. It’s a de- 
plorable record. Virtually every major prediction or claim made by 
the Republicans about the ACA since 2009 turned out to be wrong. 

Today, we have the benefit of hearing from some of the compa- 
nies that are actually working on the Affordable Care Act in the 
real world. These companies were not the biggest supporters of the 
law, they still oppose many provisions, but they do not live in the 
Republican echo chamber, they live in the real world. And I hope 
they can provide some clarity on a few questions. 

The first question I have for all of you is whether the ACA is a 
government takeover of health care. 

Republicans have made that claim I don’t know how many times. 
By one count, the phrase appeared on Speaker Boehner’s Web site 
90 different places. It’s mentioned on the RNC, Republican Na- 
tional Committee, Web site 200 times. Days before the Affordable 
Care Act’s passage in 2010, then-House-Minority-Leader John 
Boehner’s office wrote that, quote, “Democrats have opted for a gov- 
ernment takeover of health care.” 

So, Mr. Wingle, the ACA is now in effect. Has the government 
nationalized Aetna, or is it still a for-profit corporation? 

Mr. Wingle. We are a publically traded, for-profit corporation. 

Ms. ScHAKOWSKY. And, Mr. Evanko, what about you? Has Cigna 
been taken over by the Federal Government? 

Mr. Evanko. No. We’re a for-profit organization. 

Ms. ScHAKOWSKY. Mr. Rodgers, Mr. Matheis, have your compa- 
nies been nationalized, or are they still nonprofits? 

Mr. Rodgers. We are a not-for-profit, mutual legal reserve com- 
pany. 

Mr. Matheis. And we are actually a for-profit organization. 

Ms. ScHAKOWSKY. Oh, you’re a for-profit. Sorry. 

Mr. Pratt, you work for the trade group that represents the pri- 
vate insurance industry. Is there still a private insurance industry, 
or has the industry been destroyed or taken over by the govern- 
ment, as Republicans predicted? 

Mr. Pratt. There is still a private industry, and we represent 
many of those companies. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Thank you. 

Republicans also questioned whether private health insurance 
would even exist in 2014. In 2010, Senator Coburn said, quote, 
“There will be no insurance industry left in 3 years,” and that, 
quote, “Private health insurance will be dead in 3 years,” unquote. 
I should note that nearly 4 years have passed since that statement 
was made. 

Mr. Pratt, is the private health industry dead? 

Mr. Pratt. Representative, no. 

Ms. ScHAKOWSKY. Does anybody else on the panel believe the 
private industry has disappeared, private insurance industry? 

Thank you. 

Republicans have also claimed that Americans will no longer be 
able to see their doctors because of the ACA. 

Mr. Wingle, does your company healthcare plan — do the plans 
cover physician care? 

Mr. Wingle. They do. 



62 


Ms. ScHAKOWSKY. And, Mr. Evanko, what about you? Does Cigna 
have doctors in its healthcare plans? 

Mr. Evanko. Yes, we do. 

Ms. ScHAKOWSKY. Mr. Rodgers, what about HCSC? Do you in- 
clude doctors in your networks? 

Mr. Rodgers. Certainly. 

Ms. ScHAKOWSKY. And, Mr. Matheis, what about WellPoint? 

Mr. Matheis. Yes, we cover physician services. 

Ms. ScHAKOWSKY. Thank you. Thank you very much. 

Republicans have claimed that nobody would sign up for cov- 
erage. They’ve claimed that huge numbers have not paid for cov- 
erage. Eight million people have signed up for coverage on the ex- 
changes. Millions more have coverage outside the exchanges. And 
each of the insurance companies here today have testified that peo- 
ple have signed up in droves and upwards of 80 or 90 percent have 
paid their premiums. 

Mr. Chairman, I don’t know if there will ever come a day when 
Republicans will admit their criticisms of the ACA have been un- 
founded. I think we may have reached a turning point last week 
when you released your misleading report on the Affordable Care 
Act enrollment. I think the American public finally realize that Re- 
publicans have absolutely no credibility on this issue. You cannot 
be this wrong this many times and still expect to be taken seri- 
ously. 

One commentator, Ezra Klein, even gave the Republican behav- 
ior a name: Obamacare Derangement S^yndrome. He defined it as, 
and I quote, “the acute inability to see Obamacare as anything but 
a catastrophic failure that the American people will soon reject. For 
those suffering from ODS, all bad Obamacare news is good news 
and all good Obamacare news is spin. In this world, delays of 
minor provisions in the law prove that the entire structure is col- 
lapsing, while surges of millions of people enrolling in insurance 
don’t prove anything at all.” 

Mr. Chairman, perhaps we can ask our panel of insurers if their 
policies cover Obamacare Derangement Syndrome. But, really, 
that’s rhetorical. 

And I yield back. Thank you. 

Mr. Murphy. But it would be important to know if that’s a pre- 
existing condition, and I think it’s not coverable 

Ms. DeGette. It would be covered now. Good news, Mr. Chair- 
man. 

Mr. Murphy. It depends what the death panel says, I think. 

Mr. Olson is now recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. Olson. I thank the chair. 

And welcome to our witnesses. 

I wish you weren’t here, but you are here. You’re here because 
the administration will not give us the information we need to edu- 
cate our constituents about Obamacare and the rollout of 
HealthCare.gov. 

I want to talk about, all of you, a question about the back end 
and the money you’re supposed to be getting from the exchange 
and the information. In your experiences, is it working? 

Mr. Pratt, is the back end working? Are you getting what you 
need from HealthCare.gov? 



63 


Mr. Pratt. Representative, throughout the open enrollment pe- 
riod, we worked very closely to develop workarounds, manual proc- 
esses, and other things that were necessary to make the system 
work better. It’s my understanding that, while the back-end prob- 
lems have improved, some remain. 

Mr. Olson. Workarounds. You guys stepped up to the plate to 
work around the disaster of the healthcare exchange rollout? Is 
that what you’re trying to say? 

I mean, you guys took it upon yourself instead of depending on 
what — they’ve got information. You depend upon them. And is sort 
of trickling down and just coming out slowly, slowly, slowly not 
what you need? Is that you’re saying? You guys stepped around to 
make that happen? 

Mr. Pratt. Representative, I think what I would say is that we 
kept the interests of our members squarely in mind, in terms of 
minimizing disruption for them. And our members did what was 
necessary to make sure that it was as smooth as it possibly could 
be. 

Mr. Olson. Mr. Coyne? 

Mr. Coyne. I would agree with Mr. Pratt. There are still back- 
end issues to be worked through but that we are working with 
CMS on those. CMS has called a meeting of health insurers in the 
Federal marketplace on May 20th to consider some of those back- 
end issues and try and find solutions to them. 

Mr. Olson. And I hope you keep us advised of what that meeting 
puts forth, give us that information. Because we are not getting it 
from the Obama administration. 

Mr. Wingle? 

Mr. Wingle. We’ve worked closely to share our concerns about 
technical needs and help work with the industry, through our trade 
association, with colleagues to recommend prioritization on fixes for 
back-end issues, whether they’re data cleanup issues or other 
issues related to the back end of the exchange. 

Mr. Olson. Mr. Evanko? 

Mr. Evanko. There are certainly more manual processes than we 
anticipated prior to the exchanges launching. I’d say there have 
been improvements in some areas. The one back-end issue that we 
are most focused on is the APTC payments coming from CMS to 
us as a carrier. That’s a manual process today. We have been get- 
ting the payments we’ve been requesting, though, as it relates to 
APTC. 

Mr. Olson. Manual process. Twenty-first century, manual proc- 
ess. 

Mr. Rodgers? 

Mr. Rodgers. We’re continuing to work with the enrollment 
process to make sure that any of the members that have selected 
one of our five Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans get the informa- 
tion they need from us and ultimately the care they need. 

Mr. Olson. Mr. Matheis? 

Mr. Matheis. Yes. We’ve seen significant improvement, but we 
still have a number of opportunities for improvement as we move 
through the remainder of this year. 

Mr. Olson. And one final question for all the panelists. Is the 
Web site fixed? 



64 


Mr. Pratt? 

If it’s not fixed, when it will be fixed? 

Mr. Pratt. Representative, I don’t work in the operations area. 
I think if the back-end issues are considered part of the Web site, 
I would say 

Mr. Olson. They are. 

Mr. Pratt, [continuing]. Yes, that there are still issues out- 
standing that we’re working on. 

Mr. Olson. Not fixed. 

Mr. Coyne? 

Mr. Coyne. There are still issues on the back end. 

Mr. Olson. Another one not fixed. 

Mr. Wingle? 

Mr. Wingle. There’s still work to be done. 

Mr. Olson. Not fixed. 

Mr. Evanko? 

Mr. Evanko. I can’t comment on the end-to-end process. I can 
only comment on the component when CMS sends us enrollment 
transactions, and there is still work to do before that’s 100 percent. 

Mr. Olson. Not fixed. 

Mr. Rodgers? 

Mr. Rodgers. Yes. We are still working with the files that we 
get, and I think there could be some improvement. 

Mr. Olson. Still not fixed. 

Mr. Matheis? 

Mr. Matheis. Yes. I echo my colleagues’ statements. We still 
have opportunities for improvement. 

Mr. Olson. Six for six. All not fixed. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. Murphy. The gentleman yields back. 

I now recognize Mr. Tonko for 5 minutes. 

Mr. Tonko. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 

So much of the debate we have with our Republican colleagues 
about the Affordable Care Act comes down to one simple question: 
Is it a good thing for Americans to have access to quality health 
insurance? 

You would think this is a simple question. Every Republican 
member of the committee has health insurance. I bet that every 
pundit who makes a living attacking the ACA has health insur- 
ance. They all make certain their children have health insurance. 
I bet they wouldn’t dream of going without it for an extended pe- 
riod of time. 

Two big reasons these people make sure they have coverage is 
that it can help them stay healthy and it can prevent catastrophic 
medical bills that can lead to financial ruin. But, this week, we got 
clear evidence from Massachusetts that health insurance actually 
saves lives. Researchers at the Harvard School of Public Health 
looked at mortality rates in Massachusetts and in surrounding 
States. 

My question, Mr. Pratt, is that, in 2006, Massachusetts passed 
major health reform legislation; is that not correct? 

Mr. Pratt. Yes, that’s correct. 



65 


Mr. Tonko. And did that coverage expansion bear some signifi- 
cant similarities to the Affordable Care Act, including an individual 
mandate, expanded Medicaid coverage, and insurance exchanges? 

Mr. Pratt. Generally, I would say that’s fair to say. 

Mr. Tonko. Thank you. 

The Harvard researchers found that, following healthcare reform 
in Massachusetts, mortality rates dropped significantly compared 
to surrounding States. The death rate from treatable illnesses like 
cancer and heart disease declined even faster. 

These findings are truly remarkable. Nearly a 5 percent drop in 
mortality from preventable illnesses. They found that for every 830 
individuals who gained coverage, 1 life was saved. Extrapolating 
that onto the national scene, if the trend holds, it means that ACA 
will save tens of thousands of lives. 

I’m not going to ask the witnesses to comment on the specifics 
of that study, but these witnesses know the value that health in- 
surance provides. 

Mr. Matheis, do you have any doubt that your health insurance 
plans cover lifesaving treatments? 

Mr. Matheis. No, they do, sir. 

Mr. Tonko. Mr. Evanko, what about you? Do you help members 
access lifesaving treatments? 

Mr. Evanko. Absolutely. 

Mr. Tonko. Thank you. 

And, Mr. Rodgers, Mr. Wingle, what about your plans? 

Mr. Wingle. As a healthcare company, we are proud of providing 
consumers with high-quality plans competitively priced. We are 
very proud of that. 

Mr. Rodgers. Yes, sir, I agree. 

Mr. Tonko. Thank you for your affirmative answers. Thank you. 

I think Republicans are really outside of the mainstream when 
they try to argue that Americans aren’t better off if they have 
health insurance coverage. Their tireless efforts to discourage peo- 
ple from getting covered are truly shameful. 

Even more shameful is the refusal of Republican Governors and 
some legislatures to expand the Medicaid program. Doing that 
would provide millions of Americans with healthcare coverage, and 
the Harvard study indicates that doing so would save thousands of 
lives. 

So we thank you for your affirmative answers. 

I yield back. 

Mr. Murphy. The gentleman yields back. 

I now recognize Mr. Gardner for 5 minutes. 

Mr. Gardner. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

And thank you to the witnesses for being here today and your 
time. 

Last year, the President apologized for his broken promise, if you 
like your plan, you can keep your plan, after millions of Americans 
received plan cancellations. 

I’d like each insurer to reply in turn, how many plans did you 
cancel or discontinue last year because of Obamacare? 

Mr. Coyne? 

Mr. Coyne. We don’t have that information at the association. 
Individual health plans have that information. 



66 


Mr. Gardner. Mr. Wingle? 

Mr. Wingle. We can provide that information to the committee. 

Mr. Gardner. Could you submit that for the record, and by 
State, with the total for all of you? 

Mr. Evanko? 

Mr. Evanko. Sure. Yes. 

Mr. Gardner. Do you have the number off the top of your head 
right now? 

Mr. Evanko. I can give you approximations and 

Mr. Gardner. Sure. That would be great. 

Mr. Evanko. We had approximately 2,000 customers, individual 
customers, in South Carolina and Connecticut. 

Mr. Gardner. Mr. Wingle? 

Mr. Wingle. Again, we’d want to get you the firm data. 

Mr. Gardner. OK. 

Mr. Rodgers? 

Mr. Rodgers. I don’t have that data with me. I think we’ve pro- 
vided it to other congressional committees, so we’d certainly be 
happy to 

Mr. Gardner. But that’s not a number that you keep on the top 
of your head? 

Mr. Rodgers. Not at all. 

Mr. Gardner. OK. 

Mr. Matheis? 

Mr. Matheis. I don’t have the number of products off the top of 
my head, but we’d be happy to find that out. 

Mr. Gardner. If you could submit for the record by State and 
what the total, I would appreciate it. 

And then, to AHIP, does your organization know how many plan 
cancellations there were nationwide last year, or for your mem- 
bers? 

Mr. Pratt. Congressman, we would not have that information. 

Mr. Gardner. You don’t ask that of your members, or they don’t 
provide that to you? 

Mr. Pratt. To my knowledge, we do not, no. 

Mr. Gardner. OK. 

Mr. Coyne, does your organization know how many member 
plans were canceled? You don’t? 

Mr. Coyne. We haven’t asked for that information either. 

Mr. Gardner. In order to avoid these cancellations, some insur- 
ers offered early renewal plans so they could continue into 2014. 
If each of the insurers could reply in turn, how many plans did you 
offer early renewals to last year that would have been otherwise 
cancelled? 

Mr. Matheis? 

Mr. Matheis. We offered early renewals to all of our customers 
in all 14 States that was allowable. So California did not allow us 
to offer early renewal, but in the majority of every other market 
we offered it to every customer. 

Mr. Gardner. Mr. Rodgers? 

Mr. Rodgers. We offered early renewals in four of our five 
States. The Montana plan became part of our larger 

Mr. Gardner. And how were those offers? How many offers were 
there? 



67 


Mr. Rodgers. I don’t have the number with me, but they’re sig- 
nificant numbers, yes. And 

Mr. Gardner. Could all of you provide those for the record and 
by State, breaking it down, please? 

Mr. Evanko? 

Mr. Evanko. Yes. We offered early renewal to about 235,000 cus- 
tomers in all States except for Connecticut and South Carolina, as 
I t estified earlier. 

Mr. Gardner. OK. 

And Mr. Wingle? 

Mr. Wingle. We offered early renewals as consistent with State 
laws and regulations. 

Mr. Gardner. OK. 

Last year. President Obama apologized for these canceled plans 
and offered a 1-year delay of enforcing the Obamacare require- 
ments that led to the cancellations. This delay has since been ex- 
tended. 

I’d like each insurer to answer: How many plans do you currently 
offer that do not meet the law’s requirements but you are able to 
continue offering because of this delay? 

Mr. Matheis? 

Mr. Matheis. I would have to get you that number, sir. I don’t 
know it off the top of my head. 

Mr. Gardner. Mr. Rodgers? 

Mr. Rodgers. Yes, I don’t know the number. 

Mr. Gardner. Mr. Evanko? 

Mr. Evanko. I don’t know the exact figure either. 

Mr. Gardner. Mr. Wingle? 

Mr. Wingle. I don’t have the hard numbers on the pre-ACA 
plans. 

Mr. Gardner. To AHIP, do you know how many plans your 
member organizations currently offer under this delay? 

Mr. Pratt. Could you please repeat that question. Congressman? 

Mr. Gardner. The question is the 1-year delay of enforcing 
Obamacare requirements that led to the cancellation, this delay 
has been extended. How many plans do you currently offer that do 
not meet the law’s requirements but you’re able to continue offer- 
ing because of this delay? 

Mr. Pratt. I don’t have that information. 

Mr. Gardner. You don’t have that number. 

Mr. Coyne? 

Mr. Coyne. The only information we have has been informally 
reported to us, and it contains all non-ACA-compliant plans across 
the Blue system. And that number is 3.2 million. 

Mr. Gardner. Yes. 

Mr. Matheis, what happens with those plans when the time runs 
out, when the delay expires? 

Mr. Matheis. So, depending on how the State handles it, with 
the extension, in theory a customer could sign up for 2 more 
years 

Mr. Gardner. What happens after that time expires? 

Mr. Matheis. Then they would be 

Mr. Gardner. Canceled? 

Mr. Matheis. [continuing]. Moved to an ACA product. 



68 


Mr. Gardner. So that plan would be canceled? 

Mr. Matheis. Yes, sir. 

Mr. Gardner. Mr. Rodgers, would that plan be canceled at the 
end of the time period? 

Mr. Rodgers. Mr. Matheis’ characterization was correct, I be- 
lieve. 

Mr. Gardner. So, yes, that’s a cancellation after the time ex- 
pires. 

Mr. Evanko, would those plans be canceled after the time ex- 
pired? 

Mr. Evanko. Based on the current guidance, yes. 

Mr. Gardner. Mr. Wingle, would those plans be canceled after 
the time expires? 

Mr. Wingle. Where feasible, we would offer the member an 
ACA-compliant alternative. 

Mr. Gardner. Could you submit the total numbers for all of 
those plans that would be canceled when the time expires and 
break it down by State, please? 

Thank you. 

And one of the excuses that we’ve heard from the supporters of 
the healthcare bill is that the law didn’t do this, didn’t cause the 
cancellations, that you were the ones who planned the cancellations 
and planned all of the cancellations. 

Were the massive cancellation notices sent last year, the ones the 
President apologized for, were these because of Obamacare or be- 
cause of you? 

Mr. Matheis? 

Mr. Matheis. The law required us to send out those cancella- 
tions. 

Mr. Gardner. So Obamacare required the cancellations. 

Mr. Matheis. Yes. 

Mr. Gardner. Mr. Rodgers? 

Mr. Rodgers. The law required us to, in certain situations 

Mr. Gardner. So Obamacare caused and required the cancella- 
tions. 

Mr. Evanko? 

Mr. Evanko. We had such a small fraction of our book of busi- 
ness that was not offered early renewals. But that was 

Mr. Gardner. But Obamacare required the 2,000 cancellations 
that you said? 

Mr. Evanko. In the two States where we did not offer early re- 
newals. 

Mr. Gardner. Mr. Wingle, did Obamacare cause the cancella- 
tions? 

Mr. Wingle. Plans that weren’t compliant with the benefit re- 
quirements of the law were canceled. 

Mr. Gardner. So that’s a yes? 

Mr. Wingle. That is a yes. 

Mr. Gardner. In attempting to pass this law, the President said 
repeatedly, if you like your plan, you can keep it. Did that turn out 
to be true for all of your customers? 

Mr. Matheis? 

Mr. Matheis. No, that was not true for 100 percent of our cus- 
tomers. 



69 


Mr. Gardner. Mr. Rodgers? 

Ms. DeGette. Time’s over. 

Mr. Rodgers. Not for 100 percent. 

Mr. Gardner. Mr. Evanko? 

Mr. Evanko. For over 99 percent of our customers, that was the 
case. 

Mr. Gardner. Mr. Wingle? 

Mr. Wingle. Not in all cases, no. 

Mr. Gardner. OK. Appreciate your time. 

And I yield back. 

Mr. Murphy. Thank you. 

I now recognize Ms. Castor for 5 minutes. 

Ms. Castor. Well, thank you very much. And good morning. 

And thank you, Mr. Chairman, for calling this hearing to discuss 
the strong enrollment numbers of the Affordable Care Act. 

When the enrollment numbers were released last week, coming 
from the State of Florida, we were floored. About 1 million Florid- 
ians signed up under the Affordable Care Act. This far exceeded 
our expectations. We thought 600,000, 700,000, but to get to about 
a million signed up that doesn’t include the about 300,000 children 
that signed up under children’s health insurance or our disabled 
neighbors or children under Medicaid. 

And then I learned from our Florida Blue executives Friday — 
Florida Blue is the market leader in Florida — that that million-dol- 
lar figure does not include others that signed up with private 
health insurance companies, so let’s add on another probably cou- 
ple hundred thousand. It’s really remarkable, and it has far exceed- 
ed our expectations. 

I just think about all of my neighbors all across the State that 
are breathing easier because now they have financial security in 
their lives that they did not have before. 

And I want to thank all of our navigators, the insurance brokers, 
many of the insurance companies that were out providing informa- 
tion, all of our community outreach partners. You have made a fun- 
damental difference in the lives of millions of Floridians, and it’s 
going to be very meaningful for them and their families. 

It’s also good news for neighbors that have insurance already. 
Most people across America already have insurance, and if you 
have insurance, what you want most of all is that you want other 
people to have insurance. Because the cost of these high premium 
increases and rate increases over time were largely caused by this 
huge uninsured population. And those costs, when they show up at 
the hospital for health care, they have to be paid somewhere. So 
that’s what we’re hoping then. 

And we’ve heard time and time again the scare tactics here, and 
we’ll see what happens with premium increases, but do we want 
to go back to the double-digit consistent premium increases of the 
past? I don’t think so. So this is a way that, hopefully, over time 
we will be able to stabilize the marketplace. 

And I think my colleague. Congressman Tonko, was right. I 
think my Republican friends now are in danger of sounding like 
they are opposed to people taking personal responsibility and hav- 
ing health insurance. People need to have health insurance to 
maintain their quality of life, to make sure they don’t go bankrupt. 



70 


And I would hope that my Republican friends could now turn the 
page and we could get to work on many of the complicated issues 
with health policy in America. 

Now, one of my Republican colleagues’ favorite attacks on 
healthcare reform is that it will cause people to lose their doctors. 
Now, you have to say, OK, even in Florida, where you have over 
a million people that now have health insurance, they’re going to 
be able to see a doctor, 8 million nationwide. But this is especially 
bizarre coming from Republicans, because they have long opposed 
any policy proposals to broaden networks. They have fought efforts 
to increase reimbursement for primary care providers who serve 
Medicare and Medicaid patients. 

What has been lost in this debate is the fact that the ACA sets 
important new network adequacy standards that guarantee access 
to key essential community providers. It ensures that no consumer 
will ever see a huge out-of-network bill if they’re taken to an emer- 
gency room. And it gives consumers strong appeal rights. It’s a 
huge step forward in patient access. 

Mr. Pratt, can you give us some context here? Providers and in- 
surance regularly negotiate rates and determine who will be inside 
of a network; isn’t that correct? 

Mr. Pratt. Representative, yes, that’s correct. 

Ms. Castor. And if insurers had to include every provider in 
their network, wouldn’t that eliminate their bargaining power and 
substantially increase premiums? 

Mr. Pratt. Congresswoman, I think that is generally correct. I 
wouldn’t characterize the amount of the increase, but it is a very 
important aspect of keeping premiums affordable. 

Ms. Castor. OK. 

Can these high-value networks improve care coordination and 
move us towards a system where we pay for quality rather than 
quantity in our healthcare system? 

Mr. Pratt. Absolutely. Our members are working very hard to- 
ward that end. 

Ms. Castor. See, I think this network adequacy in the market- 
place is an important issue. We need to make sure that consumers 
have access to providers in their area and that they have enough 
choices to get the care they need when they need it. 

Republicans should not attack the ACA for letting the private 
market work. And, remember, personal responsibility is funda- 
mental; it’s a fundamental tenet of the Affordable Care Act. And 
it’s oftentimes the customer’s responsibility to review all of the 
choices they have, whether it’s bronze, silver, gold, platinum, and 
the networks contained therein, and make their own choice. 

So the law sets key new standards and provides important pro- 
tections, but insurers and providers will continue to negotiate to 
ensure sufficient access at fair prices. 

Thank you very much. I yield back. 

Mr. Burgess [presiding]. The gentlelady yields back. 

The chair recognizes the gentleman from Ohio, Mr. Johnson, 5 
minutes for your questions, please. 

Mr. Johnson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Wow. So much to talk about, so little time to talk about it all. 

Gentlemen, thank you for joining us today. 



71 


You know, one of the reasons this committee has requested this 
information from you is because the administration has refused re- 
peatedly to provide any data on who is actually paying for the Af- 
fordable Care Act. In fact, one White House spokesman told report- 
ers to ask your industry for this information. 

So here’s the question for you: Do you currently provide any in- 
formation to the administration on who has paid for their plan? If 
yes, what information do you provide and how is it provided and 
how often? Do you provide any information to the administration? 

Mr. WiNGLE. The only information we provide around payment 
is related to the invoicing we do with the government to get the 
premium tax credit. 

Mr. Johnson. And how is it provided and how often? 

Mr. WiNGLE. It’s the process we described earlier. It’s a 
workaround process because the financial management module is 
not fully constructed on the FFM, and it’s done monthly. 

Mr. Johnson. And who did you send it to, Mr. Wingle? 

Mr. Wingle. Send it to CMS. 

Mr. Johnson. OK. 

Well, it’s a little confusing. So the administration will pay your 
industry a subsidy for potential customers who never even effec- 
tuate their enrollment. So if you’re not providing the details to the 
administration on who’s paying for the Affordable Care Act, how 
are they paying you? What are they basing their payments to you 
on? 

Mr. Wingle. I’d only make one clarification. We do not submit 
information for payment from the government for members who 
are not effectuated, who haven’t made their own portion of the 
binder payment. We do not do that. 

Mr. Johnson. Well, let me dig a little deeper then. So how do 
you get paid? How do you get paid, and what is that based on? 
What information do you provide the government, the administra- 
tion, that gets you paid? 

Mr. Wingle. The process essentially works because we have the 
enrollment file information. We understand the premium for the 
plan selected by the consumer on that enrollment file. 

Mr. Johnson. So you’re paid based on enrollment, not on actual 
payment? 

Mr. Wingle. We understand the member’s responsibility on that 
enrollment, and the difference between the premium rate and the 
member responsibility tells us what the government is. And we roll 
that figure up monthly. 

Mr. Johnson. So if you only submit for effectuated — I can’t even 
pronounce that word — doesn’t the administration know the pay 
rate? Don’t they know how much these people are paying? 

Mr. Matheis. Yes, sir, they’ve determined the subsidy eligibility 
as part of the enrollment process. 

And so a file would come to us; we’d bill for the member respon- 
sibility. Upon collection of that member responsibility, then we 
would typically, if the system were working as designed, we would 
send a file to the government, to the exchange, saying, here are the 
members that have effectuated enrollment and here’s ultimately 
the payment that is back due to us. 

Mr. Johnson. OK. 



72 


So do you believe the administration is currently able to report 
the payment rate or who is fully enrolled? Do you think they have 
that information, based on what you give them? 

Mr. Matheis. So, to date, the payments that are coming back 
and forth are estimated. So there’s not been a direct reconciliation 
between our company and the exchange on a member-by-member 
basis. That’s one of the works in progress that we discussed on the 
back-end discussion we had earlier in the day, sir. 

Mr. Johnson. Considering, then, that the administration is able 
to report who selects a plan on HealthCare.gov, would it would be 
possible for them to gather information on who has actually paid 
for a plan? 

Let’s start down with Mr. Pratt. 

Mr. Pratt. Representative, it’s my understanding that that capa- 
bility is not present yet. I’m not sure 

Mr. Johnson. Mr. Coyne? 

Mr. Pratt, [continuing]. Whether it may be in the future. 

Mr. Johnson. OK. 

Mr. Coyne. Yes, it’s my understanding, as well, that that capa- 
bility isn’t ready yet. 

Mr. Johnson. Mr. Wingle? 

Mr. Wingle. I don’t know what the administration can infer 
from the data they have, but I know the financial management 
module itself is not available. 

Mr. Johnson. Mr. Evanko? 

Mr. Evanko. One bit of color I’ll add to my colleagues is the sub- 
mission for APTC is only for those that are APTC-eligible. So 
there’s also people that do not qualify for that that should be in 
that calculation. 

Mr. Johnson. OK. 

Mr. Rodgers? 

Mr. Rodgers. Yes, I think my colleagues are correct in their 
statements, and we’re still working on the reconciliation process for 
payment. 

Mr. Johnson. OK. 

Mr. Matheis? 

Mr. Matheis. I would concur with the other statements. 

Mr. Johnson. OK. 

Final question: Does the administration know who’s paid for 
their plan? 

Mr. Pratt? 

Mr. Pratt. Congressman, I don’t know the answer to that ques- 
tion. 

Mr. Johnson. Mr. Coyne? 

Mr. Coyne. I don’t know either. 

Mr. Wingle. I don’t know what the administration knows about 
the enrollment in terms of who’s paid. 

Mr. Evanko. I don’t know either. 

Mr. Rodgers. No, sir. 

Mr. Matheis. No, sir. 

Mr. Johnson. It’s interesting that they sent us to ask you folks. 

OK. Mr. Chairman, I yield back. 

Mr. Burgess. The gentleman yields back his time. 



73 


The chair recognizes the gentleman from Kentucky, Mr. 
Yarmuth, 5 minutes for your questions, please. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 

And I’m really glad we had this hearing. That’s something I usu- 
ally don’t say very often, but this has been a very illuminating 
hearing, because I think what it’s done, very clearly, is to show 
what our collea^es on the other side’s strategy is, which is to tp^ 
and hold a hearing in which they can grab a headline that will in 
some way scare the American people about the Affordable Care Act 
rather than providing true information about what’s going on. 

And it’s clear from the desperation, once their initial strategy of 
trying to deal with this alleged failure to pay premiums, now 
they’ve moved on to try and scare people about what premiums 
might increase by later, either next year or in the future. 

So, and I’m glad you all stressed how important it was that you 
not give up your competitive position, because obviously you’re all 
competing in the markets. 

And I could turn that strategy around and do the same thing and 
ask you speculative questions like, will the premium increases that 
we are likely to see approach the 38 percent that we were seeing 
in 2010 before the Affordable Care Act was passed, and ask you to 
speculate on that, but I won’t do that. And I could ask you about 
what the rate of cancellations of policies were prior to the Afford- 
able Care Act. 

And I could also ask you — and I think this would be a fair ques- 
tion; I wouldn’t expect you to answer — how many of your insurance 
companies, because of the success of the Affordable Care Act enroll- 
ment so far and the beneficial mix of younger people, has prompted 
you to explore doing business in other States, as has been reported 
in the media. And I think that would be a question that I would 
love to have the answer to. 

I know, for instance, in Kentucky, the co-op, the nonprofit Ken- 
tucky co-op, which is competing in the exchange, is now getting 
ready to do business in West Virginia, because they don’t have a 
co-op and they see an opportunity there. And I think the Maine co- 
op is planning to do business in — or. I’m sorry, the Massachusetts 
co-op in Maine, because they see an opportunity there. 

So I think all these things are indications that the Affordable 
Care Act, far from being the train wreck which many have sug- 
gested it would become, is actually getting a great deal of traction 
as it speeds down the tracks. 

And just to put it in perspective, in Kentucky, we have insured 
in the period of 6 months roughly half of the previously uninsured 
population of the State. We have — 411,000 people now have cov- 
erage in Kentucky under the ACA. Three-quarters of those — in an- 
swer to one of the questions that was asked earlier, three-quarters 
of those we know previously had no insurance. And 52 percent of 
all that 411,000 people are under 35. 

So we know things are working in Kentucky. And, as Ms. Castor 
mentioned, things are surprisingly successful in Florida, despite an 
administration there which has done everything it could to sabo- 
tage the Affordable Care Act. 

So, we can speculate about and argue about the level of success, 
whether it’s a success or a train wreck, but the markets certainly 



74 


have had something to say about how they view the Affordable 
Care Act in terms of your businesses. I look at those share prices 
of the companies represented here and one based in my own State. 
Humana is based in my district. When the Affordable Care Act was 
enacted, their stock price was 44; now it’s 110. Aetna’s was 33; now 
it’s 72. UnitedHealthcare was 27; now it’s 75. And Cigna’s was 34, 
and now it’s 83, roughly. 

So the market has made a judgment, I think, about the fact that, 
at least in terms of your business, the Affordable Care Act has of- 
fered a significant financial benefit. 

So I think, again, one of the things that’s fascinating about this 
hearing is we know what the Republicans have tried to do, and 
that’s to scare the American people and to use every little indica- 
tion of a problem to reflect some kind of a doomsday scenario that 
we are looking at. 

And, fortunately, the facts on the ground, whether it’s the mar- 
ketplace, whether it’s the experience in Kentucky or Florida or 
California, where literally millions of people, by one estimate, 20.8 
million people, got coverage under the ACA or bought coverage be- 
cause of the ACA in the private markets outside the exchanges, we 
are doing — it’s doing exactly what we intended it to do. 

We know there have been glitches, we know there have been 
problems. Any undertaking of this magnitude would experience 
those. But, again, I thank you for your participation, and I thank 
you for this hearing. 

And I yield back. 

Mr. Burgess. The gentleman yields back. 

The gentleman from New Mexico is recognized for 5 minutes, Mr. 
Lujan, for your questions, please. 

Mr. Lujan. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Mr. Matheis, your company’s CEO said last week that the surge 
in enrollment in March included a higher percentage of young peo- 
ple than in earlier months. Isn’t that correct? 

Mr. Matheis. That is correct, sir. 

Mr. Lujan. And, Mr. Evanko, your CEO said something similar 
last week, as well. Isn’t that correct? 

Mr. Evanko. That’s correct. 

Mr. Lujan. And, as a general matter, all else being equal, a 
higher percentage of young people in the risk pool will help lower 
premiums. Isn’t that correct? 

Mr. Evanko? 

Mr. Evanko. That’s a complicated question. It’s an important 
one, but it’s a complicated question. 

Mr. Lujan. I think that all that we’ve heard and from all the ac- 
tuaries is that the answer is, yes, we need more young people in. 
It lowers premiums. 

Mr. Pratt, insurance company premiums are market-sensitive in- 
formation that companies are not eager to let their competitors 
know until the last minute. Isn’t that correct? 

Mr. Pratt. Representative, it is competitively sensitive informa- 
tion. I don’t know that I could speak to their particular perspective 
on that question. 

Mr. Lujan. Well, it seems like they’d want to keep it to them- 
selves as long as they’re able to so that competitors aren’t able to 



75 


get their hands on it and adjust accordingly. Is that correct? Is that 
fair? 

Mr. Pratt. It’s fair to say it’s competitively sensitive information. 

Mr. Lujan. And is it correct that many insurance commissioners 
around the country have the authority to review rates and that the 
final rates consumers pay are sometimes lower than the rates that 
are actually filed? 

Mr. Pratt. Yes, Representative. Typically speaking, rates are 
filed with the States, and the States review those rates. 

Mr. Lujan. Very good. I used to sit on a regulatory body that the 
superintendent of insurance was under our jurisdiction, so I appre- 
ciate the answer to that. Because I know what we saw when I was 
there, as well, sir, so I’d certainly agree that. 

Is it also true that the ACA contains a series of policies — reinsur- 
ance, risk adjustment, and risk corridors — to help mitigate poten- 
tial premium increases? 

Mr. Pratt. Congressman, one goal of the 3Rs program, the so- 
called 3Rs program, is to stabilize premiums in the early years of 
implementation. 

Mr. Lujan. And a final question to the panel is: Before the ACA, 
wasn’t it common for insurance premiums to increase significantly 
year to year, often by double digits? 

Anyone? 

Is there anyone that would disagree that premiums increased by 
more than 50 percent between 2003 and 2010? 

Hearing none, I guess the answer to that is that there’s agree- 
ment. 

The 8 million figure only includes people who have signed up for 
insurance directly through the Federal and State marketplaces 
that my colleagues are trying to dismiss, but people can also sign 
up for private ACA-compliant plans outside of the marketplaces. 
We don’t have a lot of conversation about that. 

Mr. Pratt, are individuals able to enroll in some of the plans that 
AHIP represents outside of the Federal and State marketplaces? 

Mr. Pratt. That’s correct. 

Mr. Lujan. The CBO estimates that 5 million people will pur- 
chase ACA-compliant plans outside of the marketplace this year. 
These individuals will obtain the same protections and be a part 
of the same risk pools in each State as those who enrolled via the 
marketplaces. 

Mr. Rodgers, how many of HSCS’s enrollments have been outside 
of the marketplace? 

Mr. Rodgers. As I said in my opening testimony and was pro- 
vided in written form to the committee, I believe we had about 
230,000 off-exchange applications during the open enrollment pe- 
riod ending April 15. 

Mr. Lujan. And about how many applicants have you received 
overall? 

Mr. Rodgers. We’ve received, overall, about 830,000 applications 
across our five States. 

Mr. Lujan. So that sounds like it’s representing about 1.2 million 
culvert lives. So about 28 percent of your enrollees signed up out- 
side of the marketplaces; that’s a significant number. And I under- 
stand that payment data is not complete but in the earlier months 



76 


of this year, what percentage of individuals enrolling in plans out- 
side of the marketplace have paid? 

Mr. Rodgers. In my written comments to the committee, I 
shared with you the on-exchange and off-exchange payment rates 
because there is some difference. Typically, the payment comple- 
tion rates are a little bit higher off exchange versus on exchange, 
and you should have that data. 

Mr. Lujan. So from what I was able to get from your testimony 
was that between January and April, 90 to 93 percent; and in May, 
63 percent today, and we can verify that in there. Does that sound 
accurate, though? 

Mr. Rodgers. That’s correct. That’s in my written comments. 

Mr. Lujan. Can any of our other witnesses provide us with infor- 
mation on how many off-exchange enrollments they have had to 
date? If not — Mr. Evanko. 

Mr. Evanko. We have approximately 40,000 off-exchange ACA 
enrollments. That’s about one-third of our total ACA compliant 
book. 

Mr. Lujan. And what I’d like to do is ask our witnesses if they’d 
be willing to provide the committee with detailed information on 
their off-exchange enrollments. Would that be OK with everyone? 

Mr. Rodgers. Yes. 

Mr. Lujan. Very good. I appreciate that. 

You know, later on today we’re going to having some other hear- 
ings in other areas, despite the demonization and demagoguing of 
the Affordable Care Act, over 8 million enrollees, can you imagine 
what it would have been if Democrats and Republicans would have 
worked together to fix issues that needed fixing but we were able 
to get more people covered? Who knows where that number would 
have been. 

But later on today, we’re going to be having a hearing on taking 
away someone’s Fifth Amendment rights. We have my colleagues 
that are still refusing to release 39 interview transcripts at an IRS 
hearing. There are going to be other hearings. Another request on 
a hearing with Benghazi, even though there’s been seven other 
hearings, 50 repeal attempts on the Affordable Care Act. 

I think there’s a lot of important pressing business that we as 
the Congress need to get our hands around. And I am certainly 
hopeful that in the history and tradition of this committee, with all 
that I’ve learned from our senior members, there once upon a time 
was an effort for us to work together and get along, and I certainly 
hope that those days return. Every time I’m home, that’s what we 
hear. 

So all the witnesses that are here today, thank you so much; 
chairman, again, for you being here, as well, and the hearing being 
brought together today, an important conversation I hope that 
we’re able to bring more facts into the debate. Thank you very 
much. 

Mr. Burgess [presiding]. Gentleman’s time is expired. 

The chair recognizes Ranking Member DeGette for follow-up. 

Ms. DeGette. Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to follow up on Mr. 
Lujan’s questioning with the off-exchange enrollments, because as 
we’ve learned, there have been a number of off-exchange enroll- 



77 


ments in addition to the enrollments in the ACA, both in the Fed- 
eral exchange and the State exchanges. 

So I would ask unanimous consent; the committee has made a 
request of 160 plans, including plans from this panel here, that 
they provide information about enrollment figures and premium 
payments for those plans that are under the Affordable Care Act 
exchanges. I would ask also if we would ask those same plans for 
that same information on the off-exchange enrollments. 

Similar to the data that we got from Blue Cross and Blue Shield, 
it would be helpful to know how many off-exchange enrollments we 
have had from these 160 plans and what the premium payments 
have been, so I’d ask unanimous consent that we also ask for that 
information. 

Mr. Burgess. Without objection. The gentlelady yields back. 

I recognize myself for follow-up. And I would just say on the off 
enrollment. I’m one of those members. I actually had both Blue 
Cross and Blue Shield and HealthCare.Gov on hold, or they had 
me on hold on December 23 and December 24, and it was kind of 
a race to see who would have a live person answer the phone first. 
And I think, if I recall correctly. Blue Cross went off that day, so 
I was probably an off-exchange enrollment, so you may count me 
as that. 

I would just like to ask each of you in follow-up, many of the 
products you’re offering are only affordable because the government 
subsidizes part of the premium cost. Do you know what percentage 
of the plans with paid premiums and effectuated enrollment re- 
ceived some form of subsidy from the taxpayer? Mr. Coyne, I’ll 
start with you and we’ll just go down the line. 

Mr. Coyne. We don’t have that information at this point. 

Mr. Burgess. Would you provide it for the record? 

Mr. Coyne. Yes, we’d be happy to when we get it. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Wingle. 

Mr. Wingle. Our experience probably comports with generally- 
available published information on that. It’s a majority of our mem- 
bership. 

Mr. Burgess. And again, can I ask you to submit that for the 
record? 

Mr. Evanko. 

Mr. Evanko. Eor our on-exchange customers, 80 to 85 percent 
are eligible to APTC. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Rodgers. 

Mr. Rodgers. Yes, I believe we submitted that information, if I 
understood your question, in the two submissions for April; and 
with the May 20 submission, we’ll provide something similar. 

Mr. Wingle. As did we. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Matheis. 

Mr. Matheis. Yes. As you know, that number is a moving target, 
but it is around 79 percent for us. 

Mr. Burgess. And would you do your best to give us an accurate 
representation for the record. 

What about a situation where an individual enrolls but then can- 
cels their plan? Are you only to pay the subsidy monthly or would 
you be responsible for returning a portion of the subsidy through- 
out the year? Mr. Coyne, let’s start with you. 



78 


Mr. Coyne. We don’t have that information. 

Mr. Burgess. And will you submit that for the record? 

Mr. Coyne. Yes. 

Mr. Burgess. Will you try to find that for us? 

Mr. Wingle. 

Mr. Wingle. Could you repeat the question, please, Mr. Chair- 
man. 

Mr. Burgess. A situation where an individual enrolls but then 
cancels their plan. Are you only paid the subsidy monthly, or would 
you be responsible for returning the portion throughout the year? 

Mr. Wingle. Returning the portion of premium paid or 

Mr. Burgess. The advanced premium tax credit. 

Mr. Wingle. The subsidy. The subsidy, under the 3-month grace 
period rules, we retain until cancellation. 

Mr. Burgess. So you would not be required to return that? 

Mr. Wingle. No, not until a member has canceled. 

Mr. Burgess. If the member just simply doesn’t pay, they make 
their first payment, maybe their second payment and then they 
stop. At the end of that 3-month grace period, do you have to re- 
turn the money for those months where the patient didn’t pay? 

Mr. Wingle. In compliance with the 3-month grace period rules, 
we retain any premium tax credit received during the period to 
help us cover any claims experience we had during the time the 
member was enrolled. 

Mr. Burgess. So you retain the advanced premium tax? 

Mr. Wingle. According with the design of the rules, yes. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Evanko. 

Mr. Evanko. Well, at the end of the 90-day grace period, if the 
individual has not paid any more premiums, then we owe that 
money back to CMS and we credit that in the next month’s rec- 
onciliation process. 

Mr. Burgess. Interesting. 

Mr. Rodgers. 

Mr. Rodgers. I’m not familiar with that particular aspect of the 
grace-period payments in terms of the return or not, but I believe 
that we’re only entitled to the money that’s for the time the policy 
is in effect. 

Mr. Burgess. And Mr. Matheis. 

Mr. Matheis. That’s my understanding, as well, sir. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Coyne, do you know how much your company 
has been paid in advance premium tax credits? 

Mr. Coyne. Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association does not ac- 
tually sponsor any of the products that are on the exchanges; our 
member plans do. So we wouldn’t be paid premiums or APTC. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Evanko. 

Mr. Evanko. We received four payments so far for the months 
of January through April, and it’s in the range of $30- to $40 mil- 
lion. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Wingle. 

Mr. Wingle. We obviously have that data, we can supply the 
committee with that data. 

Mr. Burgess. And I do need for you to submit that for the 
record. 

Mr. Rodgers. 



79 


Mr. Rodgers. We’ve received some payments. I don’t know the 
value of the payments to date. 

Mr. Burgess. And will you find that information and submit for 
the record, please. 

Mr. Rodgers. Certainly. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Matheis. 

Mr. Matheis. Yes. I don’t have that number ready today, but 
we’d be happy to get it for you. 

Mr. Burgess. The metal plans, you’re all familiar with them. I 
keep hearing about a copper plan that’s going to be offered. Are you 
any of you familiar with that? Are you going to be offering copper 
plans, Mr. Coyne? 

Mr. Coyne. I’m not familiar with that at this point. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Wingle. 

Mr. Wingle. Under the current rules for central health benefits 
and the rules for qualified health plans, we’re not currently author- 
ized to offer anything at the so-called copper level. Our plan bene- 
fits start at bronze unless somebody qualifies for catastrophic care, 
and that’s of the lowest actuarial value we’re allowed to offer pres- 
ently. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Evanko. 

Mr. Evanko. In the event that copper plans were introduced as 
something that’s allowed, we would certainly consider it. Cigna be- 
lieves in choice as one of our core principles for our customers. 

Mr. Burgess. Thank you. 

Mr. Rodgers. 

Mr. Rodgers. Currently we’re not approved to offer the copper 
plans. That’s certainly something that we believe, that members 
need more cost-effective programs. I expect that we would offer 
those. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Matheis. 

Mr. Matheis. My comments would be similar to my colleagues, 
sir. 

Mr. Burgess. Let me just ask each of you, what is your payment 
rate for products in the large-group market? Starting with you, Mr. 
Coyne, what are your payments for products of large-group mar- 
ket? 

Mr. Coyne. Individual group plans have that information rather 
than the association. 

Mr. Burgess. I see. 

Mr. Wingle. 

Mr. Wingle. I carry no responsibility for large group. I’d have to 
get back to you on that. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Evanko. 

Mr. Evanko. I am not familiar with the large-group payment 
rates either. I’m sorry. 

Mr. Burgess. Your company, though, is, I mean, you’re in the 
large-group market. 

Mr. Evanko. We are, sir, yes. 

Mr. Burgess. Will you get that information for us? 

Mr. Evanko. Sure. 

Mr. Burgess. Thank you. 

Mr. Rodgers. 

Mr. Rodgers. I don’t have that information with me. 



80 


Mr. Burgess. But you will provide it for the committee? 

Mr. Rodgers. Certainly. 

Mr. Burgess. Mr. Matheis. 

Mr. Matheis. I’m not sure I understand the question. Could you 
clarify it for me, please. 

Mr. Burgess. Well, the question was, what are your payment 
rates for products in the large-group market? 

Mr. Matheis. So is that what our average premium is or? 

Mr. Burgess. How many people pay? 

Mr. Matheis. Sorry, sir. I’m still not following the question. 

Mr. Burgess. Well, what we’ve generally been talking about 
today is how many people, what percentage of people have paid. So 
following along that 

Mr. Matheis. I’m sorry. I was a little slow in the uptake there. 
Typically, we would experience somewhere around a 98- to 97-per- 
cent premium payment in the large-group market. 

Mr. Burgess. Very well. Thank you all for your attendance 
today. I ask unanimous consent that members’ written opening 
statements be introduced into the record. Without objection, the 
documents will be entered into the record. 

In conclusion. I’d like to thank all the witnesses and the mem- 
bers who participated in today’s hearing. I’d like to thank everyone 
who stuck with us in until the end, and that would be the wit- 
nesses. I remind members they have 10 business days to submit 
questions for the record, and I ask the witnesses to all agree to re- 
spond promptly to the questions. The committee now is stands in 
adjournment. 

[Whereupon, at 12:28 p.m., the subcommittee was adjourned.] 

[Material submitted for inclusion in the record follows:] 

Prepared statement of Hon. Marsha Blackburn 

• Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this hearing so that we might have some 
clarity about the Obamacare Enrollment numbers. 

• The rollout of HealthCare.gov was abysmal. In addition, the administration has 
unilaterally issued numerous delays. I believe that we are not finished with very 
unpleasant surprises with this law. The American people deserve answers to many 
questions and we intend to get those answers. 

• In March of this year. Secretary Sebelius told us that she could not tell us how 
many people who had enrolled in plans had actually paid their first month pre- 
miums. She was asked if she had asked for that information from insurers, she ad- 
mitted that she had not. 

• The former director of the Center for Consumer Information and Insurance 
Oversight at CMS, Gary Cohen also said that he did not know. 

• I don’t know, but I think when you have a name like “oversight” you should have 
an idea about what is going on. 

• Since the Administration was unable, or unwilling to provide the information to 
Congress, we requested this information from the insurers that the administration 
lists at participants in the Federally Facilitated Exchanges. 

• As we continue to work to I am looking forward to hearing from each of the wit- 
nesses today as we continue to shine a very bright light on Obamacare. 



81 


Annals tf liternal Meificini | Orkjinal Research 

Changes in Mortality After Massachusetts Health Care Reform 

S fluashexperiniental Study 

Beniamin D. Sommers. MD. PhD; Sharon K. long. PhD: and Katherine Baicker. PhD 


Background; The Massachusetts 2006 health care reform has been 
called a mtxfel for the Affordable Care Act. The law attained 
near-universal insurance coverage and increased access to care. Its 
effect on population health is less dear. 

Objective: To determine whether the Massachusetts reform was 
associated with changes in ad-cause mortality and mort^ity from 
causes amenable to health care. 

Design: Comparison of mortality rates before and after reform in 
Massachusetts versus a control group with similar demographics 
and economic conditions. 

Setting: Changes in mortality rates for adults in Massachusetts 
counties from 2CX31 to 2005 (prereform) and 2007 to 2010 (post- 
reform) were compared with changes in a propensity score-defined 
control group of counties in other states. 

Participants: Adults aged 20 to 64 years in Massachusetts and 
control group counties. 

Measurements: Annua! county-level all-cause mortality in age-, 
sex-, and race-specific cells (o = 146825) from the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention's Compressed Mortality File. Sec- 


ondary outcomes were deaths from caises amenable to health 
care, insurance coverage, access to care, and self-reported health. 

Results: Reform in Massachusetts was associated with a significant 
decrease in all-cause mortality compared with toe control group 
(-2.9%; P “ 0.003, or an absolute decrease of 8.2 deaths per 
100 (X)0 adults). Deaths from causes amenable to health care also 
significantly decreased (-4.5%; P < 0.001), Changes were larger 
in counties with lower household incomes and higher [xereform 
uninsured rates. Secondary analyses showed significant gains in 
coverage, access to care, self-reported health. The number 
needed to treat was approximately 830 adults gaining health in- 
sura^ce to prevent 1 death per year. 

Limitations: Nonrandomized design subject to unmeasured con- 
founders. Massachusetts results may not generalize to otoer states. 

Conclusion: Health reform in Massachusetts was associated with 
significant reductions in all-cause mortality and deaths from causes 
amenable to health care. 

Primary Funding Source: None. 

Ann tote/nMed 2014:160:555-593, www.annal5.org 

For iiutho' affiliations, see end of text. 


M a.s.sachu setts pas,sed comprehensive health care 
reform in 2006 with the goal of near-universal cov- 
erage. The law — which expanded Medicaid, offered subsi- 
dized private insurance, and created an individual mandate — 
was a model for the Affordable Care Act (I). Thus, 
understanding the effects of the Massachusetts law has im- 
portant policy implications. 

Previous re.search documents that the Massachusetts 
reform succeeded in expanding health insurance among 
adulcs aged 19 to 64 years by 3 to 9 percentage points 
(1-5). Studies also indicate improvements in accc.ss to care 
(6-8), self-reported physical and mental health (9), use of 
preventive .services (2, 10), and functional status (1, !i). 
However, there has been no evidence on the law's effect on 
mortality. Previous research on the effect of health iasur- 
ance on mortality is mixed. Some observational .studies 
suggest as much as a 40% increa.sed risk for death for 
tminsured ver.su.s insured adults (12. 13), and an analysis of 
Medicaid expansion to low-income adults detected a 6% 
decrease in sutewidc mortality (14). Other studies, includ- 
ing 2 randomized trials of insurance expansion, found little 
or no effect on mortality (15-17). 

Our srudy’.s objective was to examine the changes in 
mortality associated with the Massachusetts reform. We 
hypothesized that the reform reduced mortality, particu- 
larly from causes pocemially treatable with timely care 
(such as cardiovascular di.scasc, infections, and cancer), and 
that larger changes occurred among groups likely to benefit 


from the law — previously uninsured adults and those with 
higher prereform mortality rates. 

Methods 

Study Design 

Our study used a quasi-expcrimcnca! pre-post design 
with a control group and compared average mortality in 
Massachusetts before and after reform to mortality changes 
over the same period for similar populations in states with- 
out reforms (also kttown as a “diffcrcnces-in-differenccs’’ 
arialysi.s [18]). Our preferred .specification used propensity 
score methods to create a control group of counties in 
nonrefomi states that best matched the distribution of pre- 
reform characteristics in Massachusetts counties (19, 20). 

The Mas.s-achuscrc,s law had several components: Med- 
icaid expansion .starting in July 2006, subsidized private 
plans for adults with incomes less than 1 00% of the federal 
poverty level in October 2006, and expanded coverage sub- 
sidies for adults with incomes up to 300% of the federal 


Seeaiso: 

Editorial comment , , , 549 

Web-Only 

Supplement 

© 20M Amcrian Coiicge of Physcians jS35 



82 


CJrK; !NA f, F.SFA'RCIi i Changes in Moralicy After Missachuserts Health Care Reform 


Context 

After passage of a 2006 law that expanded health insur- 
ance coverage, studies have found many changes in 
health and health care, but none has reported changes in 
mortality. 

Contribution 

This study found that when Massachusetts counties were 
compared with similar counties in other states, all-cause 
and health care-amenable mortality decreased after Mas- 
sachusetts passed the law. 

Caution 

The study design cannot rule out the effects of unidenti- 
fied confourrders and thus cannot establish cause and 
effect. 

Implication 

The association between more insurance coverage and 
fewer deaths reported here is consistent with other evi- 
dence that expanding insurance coverage can improve 
health, 

—The Editors 

poverty level in January 2007. It included an individual 
mandate efFeciive For the 2007 tax year and “minimum 
creditable coverage” in.surance .standards (21). We defined 
the postreForm period as 2007 to 2010, with 2006 omitted 
as a transitional year (although we included 2006 in sen-si- 
livity analyses). The prereform period was 2001 to 2005. 
Data 

Our data came primarily from the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention’s Compressed Mortality File, 
which provides county-specific annua] morraiicy races .strat- 
ified by age, sex, and race (22), For confidentiality, the 
publicly available data set .suppresses death counts for ceils 
with fewer than 10 deaths. We obtained access to the non- 
SLipprcssed data set under agreement with the Centers For 
Disease Control and Prevention. Our .sample was adults 
aged 20 to 64 years, the reform’s primary target group 
(with 19-ycar'Olds excluded because persons aged 15 to 19 
years are grouped together in the data set). In addition to 
age, sex, and race, our estimates were adjusted for year- 
specific counw-ievd poverty rates, median income, unem- 
ployment, and the percentage of Latino persons in the 
population (all from the Area Resource File [ARF] [23]). 
Subgroup analyse,? used prereform couniy-ievel uninsured 
rate,? from the U.,S. Census Bureau’s 2005 Small Area 
Health Insurance Estimates [24). 

We also analyzed measures of coverage, health care 
access, and seif-rcportcd health .status from 2 nationally 
reprc.scntatiYc household surveys: the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention’s Behavioral Risk Factor Surveil- 
lance System (BRFSS) and the Census Bureau’s Current 
Population Survey fCPvS). These data sets have been used 


previously to examine the effect of the Massachusetts re- 
form on coverage and acce.ss (2-4, 8, 9, 25). We present 
independent estimates using methods analogous to our 
mortality analysis to provide additional context for our re- 
sults. For these data sources, wc were able to include 19- 
ycar-okis, so the sample contains all adults aged 19 to 
64 years. 

This project used preexisting deidencihed data and was 
deemed exempt from review by the Harvard Institutional 
Review Board, The project received no external funding. 

Outcome Measures 

Our primary outcome was all-cau.se mortality. Our 
secondar}' outcome was mortality amenable to health care, 
adapted from previous research (26-29), to focus on 
deaths related to conditions that are more likely to be pre- 
ventable or treatable with timely care, including heart dis- 
ease, stroke, cancer, infections, and other conditions (30). 
Table I of the Supplement (available at www'.annais.org) 
lists the diagnosis code.s from the International C!a.ssifica- 
tion of Diseases, 10th Re\'i.sion, used in this definition and 
a more te.'icriccive aitern,ate definition tested in a .sensitivity 
analysi.s. 

Additional outcomes were health insurance from the 
CPS and self-reported health (excelienc or very good vs. 
good, fair, or poor) and access-to-care measures (cost- 
related delays in care, lack of a icsual source of care, and 
absence of a preventive visit in the past year) from the 
BRFSS. 

Statistical Analysis 

Annual councy-ievcl death counts based on age, sex. 
and race were the unit of observation for the mortality 
analysis. Table 1 describes the analytic .sample, which con- 
tains information on the number of counties; states; age-, 
sex-, and race-.specif!c county-level cells; and population 
per year. 

Our regression models estimated the average annual 
pre-post change in mortality for age-, sex-, and race- 
specific cells in Mas.saduisetcs counties relative to compar- 
ison counties in nonreform states (31). The study con- 
tained 5 years of prereform data (2001 to 2005) and 4 
years of p:istrcfbrm data (2007 to 2010). Given chat our 
outcome variable is number of deaths in each cell, our 
mulrivariate regression analyses fitted a generalized linear 
model using a negative binomial di.stribution and log link, 
with cell population as the expo.sure variable. We adjusted 
our analyses for race, .sex, age, .state, year, and economic 
Factors (unemployment rate, poverty rate, and median in- 
come) specific to the county year (Supplement), 

Robmt SEs were clustered at the suate level to account 
for serial autocorrelation and for the stare-level nature 
of the policy intervention (18), which is standard in 
population-based policy analyse,? (14, 32-37). Sensitivity 
analyses included the fxtoling of annual data into prere- 
form and postreform periods to remove pocentia! autocor- 


S86 6 X 


v.annais.oi^ 



83 


Changes in Mort;t!it>- Af'cer Massacluiscm Health Care Reform ! (.)RIGIN A T. RfSEARCII 


relation, an interrupted tiriie scries model, adding 2006 
(the impiementation year) to our postreforra data, and 
county-lcvcl clustering of S£s. We also tested a linear 
model using death rate per 100 000 adults as the outcome 
to provide simple estimates of absolute change and results 
similar to prior research (14). Cells were weighted by pop- 
ulation size to yield representative estimates. 

Secondary anaiy-se,s used individual-level information 
from the BRFSS and CPS on coverage, access, and health 
scatu,s and were adjusted for age. sex, race/ethnicity, em- 
ployment, household income, year, and state. For the.se 
binary outcomes, we used a generalized linear model with a 
logit link and predicted probabilities to de.scribe the mag- 
nitude of absolute changes (38). 

Selection of Control Group 

For the mortality analysis, we used propensity scores 
to dehne a control group of couniie.s in nonrelorm .stares 
that were most similar to prerefbrm Massachu,setcs coun- 
ties, We e.scimated propensity scores with a population- 
weighted logistic regression model using age distribution, 
sex, racc/ethnicity, poverty race, median income, unem- 
ployment, uninsured rate, and baseline annual mortality as 
predictors (Table 2 of the Supplement). The quartilc of 
counties with the highest propensity scores, indicating the 
closest match to the overall population of Massachusetts’ 
14 counties, wa,s used as the control group in the mortality 
analysis. This approach yielded cxceiletu balance on key 
features between Mas.sachusetts and our control group 
('f able 2 ) and provided adequate sample sizes For .subgroup 
analyses. We also tested a more traditional propensity 
score-regression adjustment method and a 2:1 nearest- 
neighbor propen-sity score-matching approach, which 
yielded .similar overall results (Supplement). 


I'ablr- / Analytic Sample 


Variable Value, n 

Counties 

Massachusetts 14 

Control group 513 

United States (non-Massachusetts) 3127 

States (including District of Columbia) 

Massachusetts 1 

Control group ' ' ' ' 46 

United States (non-Massachusetts) 50 

Age-, sex-, and race-specific county-level cells 
Massachusetts 3985 

Control group 142 840 

United States (non-Massachusetts) 836 4i 3 

Average population during study period 
(persons aged 20 to 64 y) 

Massachusetts 3 900 000 

Control group 44 300 000 

United States (non-Massachusetts) 173 400 000 


Identifying a control group with similar mortality 
trend, s in counties not in Massachusetts is the key to our 
approach (20). Wc tested for differences in the prereform 
mortality trends for 2001 to 2006 between Massachu.sctcs 
and the control group using linear and quadratic time 
trends interacted with an indicator variable for Massachu- 
seu,s. We repeated this test for the entire U.S. population. 
For the analysts of coverage, access, and self-reported 
health in the CPS and BRFSS, we compared Massachusetts 
with the other New England states (jMaine, Vermont, New 
Hamp.shire, Rhode Island, and Connecticut) before and 
after reform. These data sets do not contain the county- 


J'.il'lc A Summaty Sta^stics for Study Sample Before Refo.-m 




County-Level Characteristic 

Covariato 

Age 

Massachusetts, 

Control 
Group, %’ 

P Value for Massachusetts 
V5. Control Group 

R 

States, %' 

vs. Rest of United States 

20-34 y 

33.2 . 

33.1 

0.95 

34.5 

0,46 

35-44 y 

26.3 

25.9 

0.51 

25.3 



24.0 

24.3 

0.69 



55-64 y 

16.5 

16,7 

0.79 

16,4 


MaSc 

43-9 

49.1 

0.13 

49.6 



87,4 

85.0 

0 28 

81.0 

0.003 


7.0 

9,0 

0.26 

12.8 

<0.001 

Other race 

5.6 

6,0 

0,62 



Latino ethnicity 

7.6 

7.9 

0-86 

14.0 


Poverty rate 

9.6 

10.2 

0.55 

12,7 


Median household income, St 

62 271 

59124 

0.30 

52 4S1 


Unemployment rate 

5.0 

5.1 

0.62 


Uniinureci rate 

13.6 

14.5 

0.18 

19.8 

<0.001 

Outcomes 

All-cause mortality (deaths per 100 000) 

283 

297 

0.26 

341 


Health care-amsnafals mortalify 
(deaths per 100 (X)0) 

185 

197 

0.11 ' ' 

221 

<0,001 


• D.ir.i iK fiora-nwyw, except for medUn hoiKclioW income' and ouiconics 
t Medial: iccomc iv.it inil.niaii-adjustd to iOiO U.i. dolbfx 


r>M.ir Miy 


v.afinals.org 


liter <J I 587 





84 


INA L i^FSFARt'M I Changes in Mortality After Massachusetts Mcakh Qic Reform 


level detail needed for our propensity score method, so we 
followed previous research in using this control group 
(2, 3, H). 

Subgroup Analysis 

We did prcspccificd subgroup analyses to test for hot- 
erogcocous mortality changes and their effect on dispari- 
ties. We compared adults aged 20 to 34 years with cho.se 
aged 35 to 64 years, non-Latiiio white adults with non- 
white and Latino adults, residents of low-income counties 
with re.sidents of high-income counties (based on median 
household income in Massachusetts), and residents of 
counties with low rates of uninsured adults with those with 
high races of uninsured adults (based on median counc}^ 
uninsured rates in Massachuscct-s before reform). In each 
analysis, we specified an inceraciion term between Massa- 
chusetts reform and the variable in question to test for 
significantly different effects across subgroups. 

Finally, in a sensitivity analysis, wc used elderly adults 
(aged ?^65 years) as an additional control group, Tiiis ap- 
proach subtraccs any .secular trend for elderly adults in 
Ma.ssachusctts from the estimated mortality change for 
noncidcriy adults (Supplement). Netting out the morcality 
changes in this group i.s a conservative approach. Although 
the Massachusetts reform did not directly affect coverage 
for most elderly adults, it did expand insurance to the few 
who did not meet the lifetime earnings requirement for 
Medicare (2, 39). Thus, it may have had some effect on 
health in this age group, but one would expect such effects 
to be much w'caker than those on the targeted population 
of nonclderly adults. 

Role of the Funding Source 

Thi,s study received no funding. 

Resljits 

Sample 

Table 2 presents descriptive statistics and baseline 
morcality for counties in Massachusetts, our control group, 
and ail U.S. counties ouLside MassachusetLS. Massachusetts 
had .significantly fewer minorities, more women, lower 
poverty and unin,surcd rates, and lower baseline mortality 
than the rest of the United States. However, there were no 
.stacLstically significant differences for these outcomes be- 
tween Massachusetts and the control group, indicating ex- 
cellent balance from the propensity score approach. 

Examination of prereform morcality trends further 
supports the use of the control group (Table 3 of the 
Supplement). Wc found no evidence of divergence be- 
tween Massachusetts and the control group in linear or 
quadratic models (P = 0,120 and 0,116, respectively). In 
contrast, the mortality trend in Ma.ssachusefts diverged 
from the rest of the United States before 2006 (P< 
0 . 001 ). 

Changes in Mortality 

The Figure shows the unadjusted annual morcality 
races for nonclderly adults in Massachusetts and the control 

588j6 M.iy 2I)M 


group from 2001 to 2010. All-cause mortality in the 
2 groups followed a similar pattern until implementation 
of the reform in 2006 to 2007, after which mortality in 
Mas.sachuseics began to decrease relative to the control 
group. Health caro-amenablc mortality followed a similar 
pattern, whereas trends for other causes of death showed 
minimal changes in Mas.sachusctts and the control group. 

Table 3 pre-sents regression estimates for changes in 
mortality associated with the Mas,sacbusetts reform. In our 
primary .specification, adjusted ail-cause mortality de- 
creased in Massachusetts after reform by 2.9% (P = 0.003) 
compared with the control group. Mortality amenable to 
health care decreased by 4.5% (P < 0.001). An alternate 
definition of healih care-amenable mortality (28) pro- 
duced a .slightly larger relative reduction (—5.5%; P = 
0.002), and deaths from nonamenablc causes showed no 
significant decrease (—2.0%: P = 0,20) (Supplement). 

Several sensitivity analyses produced similar results, in- 
cluding chose using propensity score regression-adjustment 
or 2:1 matching approaches, clustering of SEs at the 
county level, or a linear model with the death rate as the 
outcome (Tabic 4 of the Supplement). The relative de- 
crease of 2.9% in all-cause mortality, paired with a baseline 
morcality in Massachusctt.s of 283 per 100 000 adults, im- 
plies an absolme mortality change of —8.2 per 100 000 
adults. This reduction is similar to the linear model esti- 
mate of “9.3 per 1 00 000 adults (P = 0.014) reported in 
the Supplement. 

Mortality Changes Among Subgroups 

Table 4 presents subgroup analyses. Relative mortality 
reductions in Massachusetts compared with the control 
group were significant for white and nonwhite adults, 
3du!c,s aged 20 to 34 and 35 to 64 years, and residents of 
counties with lower incomes and higher baseline uninsured 
races. Although relative mortality changes were larger for 
Latino and nonwhiic adults ( — 4.6%; P< 0.001) chan 
white adults (—2,4%; P = 0,001), the berween-group dif- 
ference in these estimates wa.s not significant (P = 0.062). 

The Figure of the Supplement shows unadjusted mor- 
tality trends for elderly adults, with no apparent divergence 
between Massachusetts and the control group before or 
after reform. A model using elderly adults as an additional 
within-state control group (Table 5 of the Supplement) 
showed a 3-3% decrease in all-cause mortality (P - 0.066) 
for nonclderly adults and a 0.1% increase for elderly adults 
(P = 0.93) in Massachusetts after reform. This mode! also 
showed a 4,9% decrease in health care-amenable mortality 
(P< 0.001) for noncideriy adults and a 0.2% increase for 
elderly adults (P = 0,90). 

Coverage, Access to Care, and Health 

Table 5 shows changes in coverage, access to care, and 
seif-re}X)rted health. Compared with other New England 
states, reform in Massachusetts was associated whth signif- 
icant reductions in the uninsured rate (change in predicted 
probability, -6.8 percentage points, a 57% relative de- 


ist) • Niimbct y 


».3nnals.0fg 




2fX)i 3002 2003 2004 3005 2006 2002 2008 2009 2010 


Massachusetts Control group 

All-cause mortality All-cause mortality 

Health care-amenable mortality — x— Health care-amenabie mortality 

Other-cause mortality . ..x... Other-cause mortality 


The shaded band dcsif^naics the beginning of the Massachiiseas state health care reform char was iiiiplcnicnicd starting in July 2006. “Health 
catc-amcnabic mortality’' is as defined in 1'able t of die Supplemeni (available at ivww.aniuLs.org). “Oihcr-causc mortality” contains all txher causa of 
death not included in that definition. 

crea.se from baseline); cost-related delay.s in care (-2.0 per- nearly ideiidca! with linear probability models or without 

centage poincs, i\ 22% relative decrease); lacking a usual state clustering of SEs (Table 6 of the Supplement), 

source oi care {—1. 9 percentage point,s, a relative 

decrca.se}; having no preventive visit in the la.st year {-4.0 Estimated Mortality Effect 

percentage points, a 1.3% relative decrease); and reporting To as.se.ss the plausibility of our estimated decrease in 

good, fair, or poor health (—1.8 percentage points, a 5% mortality, we compared it with the coverage gains we de- 

relacive decrease) (all changc.s, P< 0.001). Results were tecced flable 7 of the Supplement). In absolute terms, we 


Tables. Mortality Before and After Massachusetts Health Gare Reform Among Adults Aged 20 to 64, Years (200.1-2010)* . : 

Outcome 

Unadjusted Moriality 
per 100 000 Adults 

Unadjusted Relative Change 

Adjusted Relative Change 


Prereform Postreform 

Difference (95% Cl), % 

PValue 

Differ«ice(95% Cl), % 

P Value 

Alt-cause mortality 






Massachusetts 

Control group 

283 274 

297 299 

-4.2 (-3.0 to -0.4) 

0.032 

-2.9 (-4,8 to -1.0) 

0.003 

Health care-amenable mortality 






Massachusetts 

Control group 

185 175 

197 195 

•■■■4.3 (■■■■7.2 to -1.5) 

0.00,3 

-4.5 (-6.2 to -2.7) 

<0.001 

* Rcl.itivc changc.s estimated by uhni. 

; tiL'gacivc binomi.il gciicniiiv.cd linear 

moikT with log link. Adjusted iiioc 

id controlled ior i 

ige ne'e riect tlinicity, poveriy r 

•ire, medtan 

www.annal5.org 


(, .M.ii- 21 

> 14 ] . 1 

iVolumc !6a-Niitr 

thet yjsss 





86 


O R I G I N A I., Rf.SF, AR Ci f 1 Changes in Mortaliry After Massachuscns Health Care Rcfom-) 


l/wle 4. Subgroup Analyses ot Changes in All- Cause Mortahty After Massachusetts Health Care Reform Among Adults Aged 
20 to 64 Years {2001-2010)* 


Subgroup 

Unadjusted Mortality In 
Massachusetts Before 

Adjusted Relative Change, 
Massachusetts vs. Control 


P Value 

Absolute Change in 
Predicted Mortality 


Reform per 100 000 Adults 

Croup (95% Cl), % 

Subgroup 

Between-Group 

Difference 

pet 100 0(00 Adultst 

Full sample 

283 

-2.9(-4.8to-1.0) 

0.005 

- 

-8,2 

Race/ethnicity 

Non-Latino w-hitet 

295 

-2.4 (-3.8 to -1.0) 

0,001 

0,062 

-7.1 

latino or non'A'hitef 

231 

-4.6 (-6,3 to -2.8) 

<0.001 

-10.6 

Age 

20-34 y ' ■ 

77 

-3.6 (-6.9 to -0.4) 

0.030 

0.38 

-2.8 

35-64 y 

386 

~2.2(-3.Sto -0.6) 

0.008 

-8-5 

County median income 

Low income 

312 

-3.0(-4,6 to-1.3) 

<0.001 

0.33 

-9.4 

High income 

257 

-1.8 (-4.0 toO.5) 

0.120 

-4.6 

County prereform uninsured rate 

Low uninsured 

295 

-1;7<~3.8Eo0.4) •.. 

0.118 

0.41 

-5,0 

High uninsured 

273 

-3.3 (-6.0to -0,6) 

0.015 

-9.0 ■ 


* Rtl.irivc changes were esrimated iiy uAinj- ncgiinvc biiinrnial gcinT.iIiTcd Iliicai models wiili log link. I'lie model wixs adjusted for age. .kx. r.ne/cthiiicity, poverer rate, median 
iiKomc, unemployment rare, and «.uc a!' residence. 

t Calcui.iied by using jcijusied rel.uivf eh. mgr inuiiiplitd by biselhic snbgroup-specilic niorialiiy ibr M.iss.iclmscii.s. 

J Although niiadju.sicil movtaliiy w.t.i higher for nois-Latiiio white adults than fot Latino or noiiwhitc adults, this is primarily due to the diffetcitt age distributions of the 
groups. After adjiisiiiicti! for age by .siaiichrditation to the age tibstribinion of white adults, basdine tnort.ilit)' fbi loitino ot tiomvhitc adults was sigriincjntly higlier (312 per 
iOO 00(1 idtilc.s) than for nan-Latino white adults (i95 pet lOO L'OO acisiks}. Tki.s model ortiits front the satnplc any deaths with "unknown'’ ethnicity because the data set 

has no corresponding popishitbn dentmiinnior for that group iicccssaiy to calculate a death rate. 


(bund a dccrea.se in mortality of 0.0082 percentage points 
(8,2 per 100 000 adults) concurrent with an increase in 
coverage of 6.8 percentage points, which implie.s that for 
approximately every' 830 aduks who gained insurance, 
there wa.s 1 fewer death per year. 

Discussion 

The Ma.ssachusect.s 2006 health care reform vva.s a.sso- 
dated with significant reductions in all-cause mortality' 
over 4 years of follow-up relative to a control group of 
similar counties in .staie.s without reform. Reductions were 


concentrated in causes of death that were more plausibly 
amenable to health care and in populations most likely to 
benefit from expanded access, particularly re.sidents of 
counties with lower incomes and higher prcreiorni unin- 
sured rates. 

Compared with the control group, overall mortality in 
Ma.ssachusctts decreased by 2,9%. This relative decrease in 
mortality i.s smaller than the 6.1% decrease in mortality 
associated with several states’ Medicaid expansions (14), 
which is con.sisfcnt with the fact that Ma,ssachusccts began 
its expan-sion from a much higher baseline rate of insurance 


TahkS. Changes in Coverage, Access to Care, and ?elf-Reported Health After Massachusetts Health Care Reform Among Adults 
Aged 1$ lo 64 Years C2001-2010)‘ 


Outcome 

Unadjusted Population 

Mean in Massachusetts 
Before Reform, % 

Adjusted Odds Ratio After 
Reform (95% C!) 

P Value 

Absolute Change in 
Predicted Probability, 
percentage pointsT 

Uninsured (rt = 99 661) 

11,9 

0,43 (0.41-0,45) 

<0.001 

-6.8 

Delayed care due to cost in the past year 

9.0 

0.78 (0.70-0,86) 

<0.001 


in - 215 365) 

No usual source of care in ~ 262 761) 

14.7 

0.84 (0.78-0.89) 

<0.001 

-1.9 

No preventive physician's viut m the past 

30.5 

0.82 (0.79-0.85) 

<0.001 

-4.0 

year {n = 166 642) 

Worse seh-reported health in •- 214 510)t 

34,7 

0.92 (0.88-0.95) 

<0.001 

-1.8 


* All analyses compare pre-post ch.ingc.s In the initconiL's Rir MaisaclMiscru v-s. oilier New tiiiglam.1 yiatcs for [lie ye.irs 2001-200^ .iiiil 2!IQ7-201(I. Data arc fiom the 
Current t'opuhiimi Survey for the unlnMired and the Rcluvioral Rji'k H;K!ar and Suiwillancc -System (BRFSSl fur the remaining nicasurcs. Sample .ti/.es for ISRF.S.S items 
differ piinwi'iiy because ol chaiigeii nt the .vurvcv’ ycir in which each item was queried and small diflercnec.s In item nonresponse- 'Hie mode) cv,« adjusted for age, sex, 
r.icc/cthiiicity, hoitic-bold income (a.s a pcrcciii.ipe ot die federal poverty level), empluyinent status, yc.tr, .liid state of rL'SiilcnCf. 
t Ohuil.iicd by usint’ change in predicted prob.ibilii)-. 
t f-God, fast. Of iioor vs, exceilent or very good sdf-rt'p<irt«! hc.iltli. 



S90k. Ma 


WlW.ann3ls.org 




87 


Changes in Mortality After Massschii.sctK I ieaith Care Reform i (,)hIG!N . \ I.. Rl-SFiARCIf 


coverage. However. 2 recent experimenta! studies of insur- 
ance have shown neither a mortality benefit of insurance 
(16, 17) nor statistically significant changes in blood pres- 
sure or glycated hemoglobin levels (40), although both 
found major gains in scif-rcporced health and access to 
recommended care, The latter studies have the .idvaniages 
of a randomized design and individual-level data. How- 
ev’cr, they have much smaller sample sizes (for example, 
916 persons gaining coverage in 1 study (17] and roughly 
iOOOO newly in,sured in another (40] vs. approximately 
270 000 adults gaining coverage in our study) and shorter 
follow-up (16, 40) than is possible using statewide popu- 
lation data, giving our study far greater stati-stical power for 
small absolute changes, such as tho.se detected here. 

How does in.surancc expansion reduce population 
mortality? Our .secondary outcomes trace a plausible causal 
pathway: Eligibility leads to increa.sed coverage, and such 
coverage leads to better access and more utilization of clin- 
ical services, including office visits, with resulting gains in 
seif-reported health status (a strong predictor of mortality 
(41, 42]). This potential pathway of coverage leading to 
health gains through access to clinicians and high-quality 
care is consistent with Eisenberg and Powerfs seminal 2000 
article (43), which outlines a framework for understanding 
challenges to improving care for patients in the U.S. health 
care system. 

Our results are consistent with the bulk of previous 
re.tearch on the Massachuserts reform, which demonstrates 
gains in coverage, access to care, and seif-reported health 
among Massachusetts residents after reform (!, 2, S, 10, 
1 1). Morcaiicy reductions were concentrated in conditions 
most likely to be amenable to health care, such as cancer 
(which can sometimes be prcvctiicd with earlier screening 
or treated more successfully with early detection), infec- 
tions (treatable witlt early detection and preventable or less 
likely to be fata! with better long-term disease manage- 
ment), and cardiovascular disease (treatable in the short 
term with early detection and partially preventable with 
risk factor modiheanon). This is consistent with rc.scarch 
showing a decline in potentially avoid.ahle hospitalizations 
after the Mas.sachu,secis reform and other insurance expan- 
sions (2, 44), Although research on breast cancer did not 
find a significant effect of the Mas.sachuscrrs reform (25). 
our u.se of a more comprehensive health outcome may haw 
given U.S greater power to detect changes than analysis of a 
single diagnoses. 

Our number needed to treat was 830 adults gaining 
insurance to prevent 1 death per year. This estimated 
covcrage-to-mortaiicy effect would be consistent with a 
30% relative reduction in individual-level mortality for 
persons gaining insurance (compared with an estimated 
23% relative reduction in mortality from insurance cited 
by the Institute of Medicine [13] and the 40% relative 
reduction found by Wilper and colleagues [12]) if overall 
baseline mortality for che.se uninsured individuaLs were 400 
per 100 000 adults (Table 7 of the Supplement). This 
wwwannals.oi^ 


baseline mortality rate would he roughly 1.5 times that of 
our overall sample, which is consistent with prior research 
on elevated mortality risks for the uninsured {12, 15). In 
addition, research suggests that insurance expansion di-s- 
proportionately enrolls person.s in worse health (14, 45) 
and components of the Massachusetts expansion preferen- 
tially targeted adults with disabiliiic-s or HIV/AIDS (21). 
These illustrative calculations assume that mortality reduc- 
tions occurred only for those obtaining insurance under 
reform, which may be conservative because the law also 
expanded benefits (including preventive care and prescrip- 
tion drugs) for many persons who already had insurance. 

Reductions in mortality were largest in Massachiusetts 
counties with lower incomes and lower insurance coverage 
before reform — areas likely to have had the greatest in- 
crease in access to care under reform. Mortality reductions 
were nearly twice as large For minority as for white adults, 
although this between-group difference was not statistically 
significant. These results provide useful additional infor- 
mation compared with previous research suggesting chat 
raciai/cchnic disparities in coverage and access may not 
have narrowed after the Mas.sachusctcs reform (3, 4). 

Our analysts has .several limicaiion.s. First, we do not 
have individual-level insurance information and thus can- 
not directly link mortality changes to persons gaining in- 
surance coverage. -Second, defining mortality from caase.s 
amenable to health care i.s somewhat subjective. We built 
on method.s used in prior research (27-29) and tested 2 
definitions that provided similar re.sult.s. Future research 
distinguishing between treatable and curable conditions 
would also be worthwhile. 

Mo.st important, our quasi-experimenial approacli 
cannot definitively demonstrate a causal relation.ship under- 
lying the a.ssociafion between the Massachu, setts reform 
and the state’s declining mortality relative to other states, k 
is possible that the postreform reduction in mortality in 
Massachu.sccts was due to other factors chat differentially 
affected Massacbu,scccs, such as the recession. Howev^er, our 
analysis controlled for several di.scinct time- and coumy- 
.specific economic measures. We also found no evidence of 
a similar decline in mortality among elderly adults in .Mas- 
.sachusetts that would suggest a secular trend. Although wc 
cannot rule out unmeasured confounders, it is diallenging 
CO identify factors other than health care reform chat might 
have produced this pattern of results; a declining mortality 
rate in Massachusetts since 2007 not present in similar 
counties elsewhere in the country, primarily for health 
care-amcnablc causes of death in adults aged 20 to 64 
years (but not elderly adults), concentrated among poor 
and uninsured areas and not explained by changes in pov- 
erty or unemployment rates. 

In conclusion, wc find a significant reduction in mor- 
tality among nonelderly adults in Massachusetts since its 
2006 reform relative to a control group of similar counties 
in states without such reforms. Although this airalysis can- 
not demonstrate causality, the results offer suggestive evi- 

6 May ZOhI 160 . Niumk-r ojsSl 



88 


OUKrlNA I. Rh8EARC;H I Changes in Mortality After Massachusetts Health Care Reform 


cience that the AfFordablc Care Act — modeled after the 
Massachusetts law — may impact not only coverage and ac- 
cess but also mortality. However, it is critical to note the 
many dimensions in which Massachusetts differs from the 
rest of the nation, including lower mortality, higher in- 
come and baseline insurance coverage rates, fewer minori- 
ties, and the most per capita physicians in the countr)’ (46). 
The extent to which our results generalize to the United 
States as a whole is therefore unclear, which underscores 
the need to monitor closely the Affordable Care Act’s effect 
on coverage, access, and population health across all .states. 

From the Harvard School of Public Health and bnghani and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, Massachusett.s, and Tlic Urban In.sriuitc, Wasbingion, 
DC- 

Prcscmcci in part at the 36th Annual Meeting of the Society of Genera! 
Internal Medicine in Denver, Colorado, on 26 April 2013 and the An- 
nual Research Meeting of Academy! lealth in Baltimore, Maryland, on 
24 June 2013- 

Disdaimer: Dr, .Sommers is an advisor in the Office of the Assi.sranc 
Secretary for Planning and Evaluation at the U.S. Department of Health 
and Hum.an Services. However, this paper was wtitcen in Dr. Sommers' 
capacity as a Harvard employee and docs not represent the views of the 
U.S. Depaicmerii of Health and Human Services 

Acknowledgment; The authors diank lames Ware at she Harvard 
School of Public Health for thoughtPui advice on our siaiistital anaivsi.s; 
Jacob Robbins and Sarah Gordon, Research Assistancs at the Harvard 
School of Public Health, ibr their work on this project; and Katherine 
Hempstead at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation for helpful .sugges- 
tions reiraed to hsaitli care-amenable morcaliiy. 

Disdasures: Disdo.surcs can be viewed a: wvvw.acponhne.org 
/aiithors/icmjc/Coi.flicrOfliucr«tForr:i.s,do?mvNiim = M 13-2275, 

Reproducible Research Statement: Singly />n>rocr>! am dauj sen Noe 
available. Scmistiail code: Available from Dr. Sommers (e-mail, 
b.sommcrs'fe^hsph.harvaal.cdu). 

Request for Single RepririU: Benjamin D. Sommers, MD, PhD, De- 
partment of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public 
Health, Kxesge Building, Room 406, 677 H uniingion Avenue, Bo.stoii, 
MA 02115; e-mail, bsommers^h.sph. harvard.edu. 

Current author addresses and author contributions are available at 


References 

1. Long SK, St.nefciey K, H. .Mas.sachiiscits licalth reform.?; tiltittsurante 

fcinains low, ,«!f-ivporTeii health .stattis improves as state pieparcs to tackle costs. 
Health AfF (Millwood). 2012;3f:4<!4-5l. iPMl.D: 22282572) 

2. Kolstad JTi Kowalski AE The iinpaet ol hc.iltli care reform on hospital and 
preventive care; cvidcttcc from .Mass.aehiiserts. ! rublie Econ. 2012:96;9t!9-929. 
[PMID; 23I.Hli)mi 

3. Zlui J. Briiwardcy P, Lipsiu 5, Huskamp H, Haas JS. MavsHchiisetts health 
icicinn and dii( in s i veiiie i sis ii d bedth status. J Gen liucrn -Mcd- 
20U!;25:I.'^5{ 


4. Qark CR, Soukup J, Gcvindarajtilu U, Riden HE, Tovar DA. Johnson PA, 

I. ack siJ uccew due to costs remains a problem lor .some in Massachu.setK despite 
the state’s hc.dtb reforms. Flcaltb AIT (Millwood). 201 1:.40:247-55- [I’MID: 
212893461 

5. Key indicators: quarterly cnroilmciit update. Boston: Massachusetts Division 
of Health Care Fiteiiicc and Pdicy; 201 1 . Accessed at www.mass.gov/ehia/docs 
/r/pubs.U2/201 l-june-kev-indlcatcii's.|Kl{ on 5 March 2014. 

6. Loi^ SK. On the road to universal coverage: impacts of refortn in Massachu- 
.setts at otK year. Health AlF(Miliwo<>dj. 2008a7:w270-84, [PMID: 185229481 

7. Long .SK, Masi PB. Aca-.ss and atfordability: an update on health reform in 
Ma.ssachnsctes, fall 2008, Health Aff {Milbvood). 2009;2a:vv57S-a7. [PMID: 
194778'.’4] 

8. Pande AH, Ross-Degiian D, Zaslavsky AM, Salomon JA. Effects of hcjlth- 

evidcncc from Massachusetts. Am] Prev Med. 20U ;4 !: 1-8. [P.MID: 21665057! 
9 Van Det Wees P|, Zaslavsky AM, Ayanian JZ. inip.ovemems in health status 
after Massachusetts Ixwth c.ire reform, Milbaiik Q. 2ni3;9I:663-B9- [PMID: 
24320165] 

10. Miller S. The effect of the Ma.ssacbua'tis rclorm on health arc utiliaaiion. 
Iitquity. 2012:49:317-26. !PM!D: 23469675} 

I I. Couftemanche Q, Zajwta D. Docs utiiversal coverage itnprovc health? The 
Massacbascits experience. ] Policy Anal .Manage. 20H;33:.56-69. |PMID: 
24358528] 

12. 'Wilper AI’, ''S''ooihandlcr S, Lasser K£, McCormick D. Bor DH, Himmd- 
stein DU. Health insur.snce and mortaiicy in US adults. Am J Public Heahli. 
2009:99:22.89-95. [PMID: l‘r/626591 

53. Care without coverage: too little, too iatc. Washington, DC: institute of 
Medicine: 2002. 

54. .Sommers BD, Baidter K, Ep.scein AM. Mortality and access to care .imong 
adults after «3te Medicaid expansions. N Engl J Med. 20! 2;.367:1025-34. 
[P.MID: 22830435J 

15. Kronick R. Idcaltii insurance coverage ami ntortaiity revi.slied. He-a!th Serv 
Res. 2(l09;44;12n-31. [PMID: 19453392! 

16. Finkclstcin A, raubmari S, Wright B, Bernstein M, Gruber j, Ncwliousc 
JP, er aJ; Oregon Health Stud)' Group. The Oregon health ittsurance experi- 
mem: evidence ftoin the first yc.ir, Q ] Econ. 2012;127:1057-1 106, [PMID: 
23293397) 

17. Weathers RR 2nd, Stegman M. 'llic effect of expanding access to hcaliii 
iostirance on the hcaith and mortality of Social Security Disability Insurance 

bcndiciatiev J Health Econ. 201 2;31 :ks3-75. IPMID; 230008731 
18- Bertrand M. Duflo E, Mullainathan S. How much should we trust 
difreieticcs-in-dilfcrciK'cs c.stinwte.s’ Quarterly Journal of Econornici. 2004; I 1 9: 
249-75. 

19. Dchejia RH, WaJiba S. Propenrity-scorc mntchmg methods for not>cx[K-.i- 
menu! t'ju.s.il studies. Rev Ixon Sett. 2C!02;84:! 51-61. 

2Q. Abadie A, Diamond A, Hainmuclier J, Compatacivi; politics and the syn- 
thetic control method. Cajiibndgc, MA: Han-aai Kennedy School; 2012, Ac- 
cessed at wsvw.hks. harvard. cdii/fi/aabadic/compaiaiivc.pdf on 5 Match 2014. 

21. MeDonwigh JE, Rosman B, Phelps F, SIwnnon M, The third wave of 
Mass:id>tisctM hedth care access relonii. Health Aff (Millwood!. 2006;25:w420- 
31. fP.MlD; 16973653] 

22. Compre.s.scd Mortality File 1999-2010. CD ROM scries 20, no. 2P, ASCII 
verskin. Flyati.svilb, MD: National Center for Healdi Staristics; 2012. Accessed 
.-It www,cde.gov/r.eh.'2d-.ir;i/n!(>riab/!999-20 10CM1-Docutnentation.pdf on 5 
March 2014. 

23- Area Health Resource File (AHRF). 2011-2012, Rockville, MD; U.S, De- 
partment of Health ;tiid Fluman Scrvice-.s; 201 2. 

24. U.S, Census Buteau. Model-based .small area hcaith insurance estimate; 
(SAHIE) for counties and siaie.t, 2005- Accessed -it wwwxci’.sus.gov/eiidAvvs'w 
Aahic/tiaa?fiic.s/SAHIE2005.'m'on 3 October 2(1! 2. 

25. Keating NL, Kouri EM, He Y. West DW, Winer EP. Effect of Massachu- 
•vctis hcakh insurance rclortn on mammography use and breast c-tneer stage at 
diagnosis. Cancer. 2013:1 19:250-8, (PMID; 22833148] 

26. Charlton JR, Velez R, .Some imtrr.aiional comparisons of mortality amena- 
ble to mcdiGil intcivention Rr Mod J {Ciin Res Fxi). !986;2'>2;295-30L [PMID: 
3080144] 

27. Macbnbach jP, Boiivia-Colle MH. Joiigia E ".Avoidable'’ mortality and 
Itc.ilth -sciviccs; a review of aggregate data studies. J Epidemiol CoiTimiinity 
Health. 1990;44:106-11. (PMID: 2196328] 


www.annt^s.org 



89 


Changes in Mortality After Massachusens Health Care Reform 1 ORIGINAL RESEARCH 


28. Nolte E, Mcl^ M. Measuring the health of nations; anaiysi.s of mortality 
amenable to health care. BMJ. 2003;3274i!29. [PMID; 14615335] 

29. NcJte E. McKo; CM. Measuring the hedth rf nations: updating an earlier 
atrdysis. Health Aff (Millwood). 2008;27:58-71. [PMID: !8I804801 

30. Nolte E, McKee M. Variations in amenable mortality — trends in 16 hi^- 
incame nations. Health Policy. 201 1:103:47-52. [PMID: 21917350] 

31. Sin^r JD, Willett JB. Applied Longitudinal Data Analysis: Modeling 
Change and Event Occurrence. New York- Oxford Univ Pr; 2003. 

32. Afendtdis CC, H< Y, Zsdavsky AM, Qierncw ME. The impact of Medicare 
Part D on bospitalizatbn rates. Health Serv Res. 2011;46:1022-38. [PMID: 
21306 

33- Bendavid E, Bhattadurya J. The President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS 
Relief in Africa: an evaluation of ouKtimes. Ann Intern Med. 2009:150:688-95- 
[PMID: 19349625] 

34. Cooper AL, TrW«li AN, Fitness memberships and fevorablc sdaetion in 
Medicare Advantage plans. N Engl J Med. 2012;366:150-7. [PMID: 22236225] 

35. Cot« AM, Boajamin DfC Medical r^dation and health outcomes: the 
effect ofihe physician examination requirement. Health Econ. 2013;22:393-409. 
[P.MID: 22450959] 

36. Ueti DS, Evans WN. Estimating the intact d large cigarette tax hikes; the 
CASE of iratcffial smoking and infent birth weight. ] Human Resources 2005;40: 
373-9X 

37. Besley T, Butgess R. Can labour regulation hinder economic peiforraar.ee; 
E\4dcncefrom India. Quarterly Jcaimai of Economics. 2004-,i 19--91-134. 

38. Karaca-Mandic P, Norton EC Dowd B. Inceraaion terms in nonlinar 
models. Health Serv Res. 2012;47;255-74. (PMID; 22091735] 


39. Gray BH, Scheinimnn R, Rc^nftld P, Finkclstan R. Aging without Medi- 
care? Evidence from New York City. Inquiry. 2QQ6,-43:21i-21. (PMID: 
17176965] 

40. Baicker K. Taubman SL. Allen HL, Bernstein M. Gnjl»r jH, Newhause 
jP, « al; Oregon Health Study Group. ITic Otegoa ^peiment — dftets of 
Medicaid on clinicai outcomes. N Engl j Med. 2013:368:1713-22. [PMID; 
23535051] 

41. Miilun^o S. Vuori I, Ojs P, Pasanen M, Urponen H. Self-raced health 
status as a health measure; the pnxiiaivc value of self-reported health status on the 
use of physician services and on mortality in the working-age pt^iation. J Qin 
EfxderaioL 1997:50:517-28. [PMID: 9180644] 

42. DeSalvo KB, Bioset N, Reynolds K, HeJ, MunincrP. Mcmlity prediction 
with a single general self-rated health question. A maa-analyss. J Gen Intern 
Med 2006:21:267-75. [PMID: 16336622] 

43. Ehenberg |M, Power EJ- Transforming insurance coverage into quality 
heaitfi care; voltage drops from potential to delivered quality. JAMA. 2000;284: 
21DC-7. (PMID: 110427591 

44. DeLeire T, Dag^e L, Leimnger L, Voskuil K, Friedsam D. Wisconsin 
experience indicates that expirKiing piblic insurants to low-income childless 
adults has health care impacts. Health Aff (Millwood). 201302:1037-45. 
[PMID: 23733977] 

45. Sommers BD, Kwitiq' GM, Epstein AM. New evidence on the Affordable 
Care Act; coverage impacts of early Medicaid expansions. Health AfF (Millwood). 
2014:33:78-87. [PMID: 24395938] 

46. U.S. Cen«i3 Bureau, State ranking— Statistical Abstrac of the United 
Stats: doctors ps 100,000 resident popubtion. 2007. Accessed at www.ccnsus 
.gov/tonpcndia/staiab/20127ranksfiankl8,httnl on 12 November 2012, 


CME CRfoiT AND MOC Points for Patient Safety Modole 

Physicians enrolled ir. the American Board of Internal Med cine's (ABfM) 
Maintenance of Certificaton (MOO pregrarr can earn 8 medical knowl- 
edge self-assessment points for successful compieteing the 25'que5tion 
module based on the Annals of Internal Medicine'. Patient Safety Learn- 
ing Module. 

These CME and MOC activities a-'e free to ACP members and individual 
subsCTibers to Annals of Internal Medicine. Others who are interested 
in ccimpieting this MOC activity can learn moiu about MCP membership 
arid individual subscriptions to Annals of Internal Meaidnc at 
www.acporlfne.org, 

To earn WOC points: 

1 Read the Annals supplement "Making Health Care safer A Critical 
Review of Evidence Supporting Strategies to improve Patient 
Safety" (5 March 201,4, vol. 158. no. 5). available online at annak 

2. Take the Padent Safely Learning Module MOC quiz (avaitabis at 
www.acponline.org/patientsafetymoc} to sumbit your answers to 
the 25 questions and transfer the informatior ro the ABIM 
’mporiant Cven if yet/ have submitted answers lo Uie CME quiz on 
anna's, org, you wiil need to reenter your answers into the oniinc 
P/OC submission forms 

3 Succesful compietfon ot :he .mooiiie (score o* 100%) qualifies for 
8 ABiAA MOC puir Is 

Please visit www.acoonlmp.o-'g/pafiRntsafetymoc to learn more anc take 
tne MOC quiz. 


6 May 2014|AiW3l5t.flmvmal M«!lcit!e| Volume I60 •Number 9 1593 


www.aiin3l$.erg 



90 


innais if Internal Medicine 

Cticrent Author Addresses; Drs. Sainrners and Baicker: Department of Author Contributions: Concepcion and design; B.D. Sommers, 

Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, S.K. Long, K. Baickcr. 

Kresge Building, Room 40S, iS77 Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA Analysis and interpretation of the data: B.D. Sommers, S.K. Long, 

02115. K. Baicker, 

Dr. Lofig: Health Policy Censer. UrUin Institute, 2100 M Street NW, Drafting of the article; B.L'), Sommers, S.K, long, K. Baicker. 

Washingron, DC 20057. Critical rcvi.sioa of the article for important inreiketuai content: 

B.D. Sommers, S.K. Long, K. Baicker. 

Fhnal approval of the article: B.D. Sommers, S.K. Long, K, Baicker. 
Siaiisrical exjx-rtise; B.D. Sommers, S.K. Long, K. Baicker. 

Colleciioii and as.sembly of data; B.D. Sommers, 



■jvoh.imc 160 'Number 7 1 


www.snnals.Gt? 


l5 May 201. 





92 


The Committee on Energy and Commerce 

Memorandum 



May 5, 2014 


TO: Members, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 

FROM: Committee Majority Staff 

RE: Hearing on “PPACA Enrollment and the Insurance Industry” 


On Wednesday, May 7, 2014, at 10:15 a.m, in 2123 Rayburn House Office Building, the 
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations will hold a hearing entitled “PPACA Enrollment and 
the Insurance Industry.” This hearing will examine the implementation of the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act (PPACA), and in particular, the status of enrollment and the marketplace. 

I. WITNESSES 

The Committee invited representatives from the following insurers: Aetna, Cigna, the 
Health Care Services Corporation, and Wellpoint, Representatives from America’s Health 
Insurance Plans and the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association also were invited. The witness names 
will be made available here .' 

O. BACKGROUND 


2014 is the first year of full implementation for the PPACA. Due to the troubled rollout of 
HealthCare.gov^ and the numerous delays announced by the administration," a complete assessment 
of that implementation has been difficult. At the intersection of the individual experience with the 
health insurance industry and the administration’s implementation of the PPACA is the insurance 
industry. 

The first PPACA open enrollment period ended on March 31, 2014, while individuals who 
were prevented from enrolling because HeatlhCare.gov did not work were given a special exemption 
period."' While the administration periodically has reported on the number of individuals selecting a 


^ hiiDi.^ '/energvcommerce.house.gov/hearine/ppaca-enrollment-and-insurance-indusirv . 

Sarah Klifl. Philip Rucker and Sandhya Somashekhar, Sebelius on health-care law rollout: Hold me accountable 
for the debacle. I’m responsible. Washington Post, Oct. 30, 2013. 

.ht t p ;//\vvvw.vv a^hin£tonposUo m/nauonai/heaith-scicncc/sebclius-on-hea]th-care>law-roiiout-hoid-me-accountable- 
fpr-the-debacle-im-resnonsible/2013/1Q/30;7el34ea4-4 197-1 Ie3-a624-4ld661b0bb78 stoi-v.html . 

^ Elise Viebeck, HHS widens 0-Care penalty exemptions. The Hill, May 2, 2014. 

bttp.;//ihehill.com/pulicv/hea]thcare/205072-hh,s-widcn.s-cxemDtions-from-o-carc-Denaltv . 

Robert Pear, U.S. to Extend Sign Up Period for Insurance, THE New York Times, March 25, 2104, 
btti?://wvvw.nvtimcs.com/20l4/03/26/us/poiitics/obama-administration-exIends-hcahh-enrolimcnt-for- 

some.html? r-=0 . 



93 


Majority Memorandum for May 7, 2014, Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Hearing 
Page 2 

plan online, they have not provided information on who actually has paid for those plans. The 
payment rate for plans purchased on HealthCare.gov has remained an ongoing concern because 
individuals who do not pay their premiums will not become fiilly enrolled and part of the insurance 
risk pool.’ One of the reasons given for why the administration was unable to provide precise 
enrollment information was because the problematic implementation ofHealthCare.gov prevented 
the building of the systems that would gather that data. A White House spokesman noted that the 
insurance indastry would collect this data, saying “Questions about who exactly has paid for the 
health insurance can best be directed to those private insurance companies that are collecting those 
payments,”’ During the problematic rollout ofHealthCare.gov, the Committee attempted to obtain 
more detailed enrollment information from the administration.’ In light of these comments and the 
administration’s inability to produce detailed information, the Energy and Commerce Committee 
requested this data* from the insurers the administration lists as participants in the Federally- 
Facilitated Exchange serviced by Healthcare. gov.” 

Through April 1 5, 20 14, industry data provided to the Committee indicates that the payment 
rate nationwide is 67 percent. After discussing with industry representatives what would be the 
appropriate date to obtain a final update of the payment information, the Committee last week 
requested another submission of the payment rate on May 20, 2014.'’ This week, the administration 
announced that over 8 million individuals had selected plans via the Federal and State exchanges. 
They did not provide any data on payment rates. 

The insurance industry also will be on the frontline for how consumers and patients 
experience the PPACA this year. While there may be an effort to control costs, limitations on plan 
networks and doctor choices may impact medical care choices for, ' ‘ Later this year, the industry also 
will need to announce the premiums consumers can expect to pay for policies next year.'’ The 
administration already has delayed the public’s ability to see the plans and prices for next year until 
mid-November,'* Questions also remain about whether individuals who were permitted to keep the 


* Kyle Cheney, So how many have paid ACA premiums?, POLITICO, March 13, 2014. 

http:/Avww.po!itico.com/.stan / 2014/03/ obaniaca re-alTo rda ble-cafe-act-heai!h.insiirance-nremiums-in4602.html : 
Sam Baker, 15-20 Percent Aren’t Paying Obamacare Premiums, Insurer Says, National Journal, April 2, 2014. 
htlp://wwu', aaUorialioiirnal.com/heaUh-care/15.20-Dercenl-argn-l-paYing.obamacare-Drcmiiims-insurer -savs- 
20140402 . 

’‘Id. 

^ http://ehergvcommerce.house.gOv/siIe5/reDuhiicans.energvoommerce.house.gov/riies/i6tters/2013100SHHS.ndf . 

^ http://enerevcomi-nercc.house.gov/lcttcr/lcUer-insurance-providcrs-federaltv-facilitatcd-marketplace . 

’ httpst//www.heaithcare.£Ov/heaith-plan-infQrmation/ . 
http://en ergYCommerce.house.gov/lettef/letter-insiirance-nroviders-federallv-facilitated-markelnlace-n . 

Sarah Kliff, Obamacare 's narrow networh are going to make people furious — but they might control costs, 
Washington Post, Jan. 13, 2014. hUp://wwvv.\vashingtonpos t.coi'n/hloes/\vankblog;vvn/2014/0l/i3/obamacaFes- 
narrovv-nc taorks-arc-SQ ing-(o-mafce-pc ople-furit)u.s-biit-thcv-ir.iehl-conlrol-co5ts/' : Kate Pickett, Keeping Your 
Doctor Under Obamacare Is No Easy Feat, TIME, Jan. 1, 2014. httD://svvamBland.timc.com/2014/0l/01/kee DinE- 
vour-doctor-under-obamacare-is-no-easv-feat/' . 

" Jason Mtllman, Aetna: late Obamacare changes account for half of 2015 premium increases, WASHINGTON 
Post, April 24, 2014, http: //'vwv\v. washingtQnpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2014/04/24/aetna- late-ohamarare- 
chaiiges-accounl-for-half-of-201.S-premium-increases/ . 

" Devin Dwyer, IVhite House Delays 2015 Obamacare Enrollment, ABC News, Nov. 22, 2013. 
h}tB://ab enews.go.com/blQgs/polilics/2013/ll/'vvhitc-liouse-delavs-2015-obamacar e-t;nrnllmeni/ 



94 


Majority Memorandum for May 7, 2014, Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Hearing 
Page 3 

plans they liked will be able to continue to do so, or whether 2014 will feature similar plan 
cancellations to the millions that occurred in lOlS.” 

III. ISSUES 

The following issues may be examined at the hearing: 

• What does the industry believe the final enrollment total will be in the PPACA exchanges? 

• Are there any states facing unique risk pools or payment problems? 

• What has the industry’s experience been with HealthCare.gov and the other systems the 
administration was responsible for creating? 

• What can consumers and patients expect to experience regarding networks, doctor choices, 
and future premiums under the PPACA? 

IV. STAFF CONTACTS 

If you have any questions regarding this hearing, please contact Sean Hayes or Karen 
Christian of the Committee staff at (202) 225-2927. 


Sam Baker, Obama Apologtes for Cancelled Health Plans, NATIONAL JOURNAL, Nov. 

hUB;/.!Vv,«:, w.nat ionali ournal.com/health-care/obama-aDologizes-for-caiicelled-heallh-olans-20l3l 107 . 


7 , 2013 . 



95 


FRED UPTON, MICHIGAN 
CHAIRMAN 


HENRY A, WAXMAN, CALIFORNIA 
RANKING MEMBER 


ONE liUNDRHDTHIRTHI-NTH CONGRESS 

Congrcs!^ of tljc ffiniteb States 

of i\cpiesieittatibes 

COMMII THE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE 
2125 Rayburn Housr. Oii'icu Bun ding 
Washington. DC 205 i 5-6 1 1 5 

MaionlyRIC) >.H-2y27 
Miiioniyi2(l2) 225-'^MI 

MEMORANDUM 
May 7,2014 

To: Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Democratic Members and Staff 

Fr: Committee on Energy and Commerce Democratic Staff 

Re: Republicans' Record of False Claims and Predictions about the Affordable Care Act 

For nearly five years, Republicans in Congress and their allies have engaged in an 
unprecedented campaign to sabotage the Affordable Care Act (ACA). They spent hundreds of 
millions of dollars on advertising campaigns to oppose the law and dissuade uninsured 
Americans from obtaining health coverage; they cast more than 50 votes to repeal or undermine 
the law; they refused to expand Medicaid in over 20 states; and they intimidated civic 
organizations and others involved in educating the public about the law. 

Throughout this campaign, Republican leaders have made countless false claims and 
predictions about the ACA. They predicted after passage of the ACA that “there will be no 
insurance industry left in three years.”' They have repeatedly called the law a “train wreck,” a 
“fiasco,” and a “catastrophe,” despite mounting evidence showing that the exact opposite was 
true: the Affordable Care Act is providing quality, affordable health insurance to millions of 
Americans. 

This memorandum details thirteen areas where Republicans in Congress made false, 
misleading, or incorrect claims or predictions about the impact of the Affordable Care Act. 
Republicans in Congress: 

• Falsely claimed that the ACA would lead to the creation of “death panels.” 

• Incorrectly asserted that the ACA is unconstitutional. 

• Falsely claimed that ACA premiums would be unaffordable. 

• inaccurately predicted that the Affordable Care Act would destroy private health 
insurance. 


' Private Health Insurance in the U.S. Will Be Dead In Three Years, Tulsa World (Oct, 2, 


2010 ). 



96 


• Insisted wrongly that the broken Healthcare.gov website could not be fixed. 

• Repeated a series of anecdotes about ACA victims that "deflated like a pricked 
balloon on the merest e.xamination.” 

• Falsely claimed that the ACA would result in a reduction in the number of insured 
Americans. 

• Wrongly claimed that the ACA would bankrupt states that decided to expand 
Medicaid. 

• Incorrectly claimed that the ACA would result in a loss of jobs. 

• Wrongly claimed that the ACA increases the deficit and increases health care 
costs. 

• Erroneously predicted that the ACA would not meet enrollment goals. 

• Misleadingly claimed that many ACA enrollees had not paid their premiums. 

The Republican record on the Affordable Care Act is one of willful fallacies. Republican 
leaders were wrong on every important claim or prediction they made about the impact of the 
law. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

Republican falsehoods about the Affordable Care Act began long before it was even 
signed into law. In 2009, Republicans began spreading myths about “death panels” where 
“bureaucrats can decide, based on a subjective judgment of [an individual's] ‘level of 
productivity in society.' whether they are worthy of health care,”^ There was no truth to these 
claims, which were described by Politifact as the 2009 “lie of the year.”^ Days before the law’s 
passage, Ihen-House Minority Leader John Boehner’s office wrote that “Democrats have opted 
for a government takeover of health care that will crush our economy like a ton of bricks."* 

These false and misleading criticisms continued even after the federal and state 
marketplaces opened and began to help millions of Americans obtain quality, affordable health 
insurance. Rep. Michael Burgess described the ACA as a “train wreck for doctors, a train wreck 
for patient,s, and, most importantly, it’s a train w'reck for the American people,” while flouse 
Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan stated, “Obamacare Is a slow-rolling fiasco.”' Senate 


' Sarah Palin 's 'death panel ' charge voted biggest lie of 2009, The Los Angeles Times 
(Dec. 23, 2009) (online at latime.sblogs,latinies.comAvashington/2009/l2/palins-death-panel- 
charge-voted-biggest-lie-or-2009.htnil). 

” Lie of the Year: Death Panels, Politifact (Dec. 2009) (online at 
http://»'ww .politifact. com/truth-o-meter/article/2009/dec/l 8/politifact-lie-year-death-panels/). 

■* President Obama Pauses to Sign .fobs Bill While Still Twisting Arms for A Job-Killing 
Health Care Plan. Speaker of the House John Boehner (Mar. 1 7, 20 1 0) (online at 
w'ww.spcaker.gov/gcneral/economists-agree-government-takeover-health-care-massive-job- 
killer). 

' Weekly Addresses: GOP sticks to health care, Obama pivots to the economy, CNN 
(Nov. 23, 2013) (online at politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com/2013/1 1/23/weekly-addresses-gop- 
sticks-lo-health-care-obama-pivots-to-the-economy/); Paul Ryan 's budget makes big Medicare 


2 



97 


Minority Leader Mitch McConnell called the law ‘‘a catastrophe for health care and for the 
economy at large.”'’ 

When enrollment in the state and federal exchanges exceeded eight million people - well 
above even the most optimistic expectations - Republicans continued their unfounded criticism 
of the law. House Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy said in a statement, ‘‘Republicans cannot and 
will not accept this law. Not only will Obamacare still leave millions uninsured while disrupting 
health care coverage for millions more, it harms jobs, cuts hours, and limits the individual liberty 
of each and every American.”'’ 

Commentators have even developed a name for the Republicans’ inability to accept the 
reality of the Affordable Care Act’s success: “Obamacare Derangement Syndrome.” In an 
article titled ‘‘The Right Can’t Admit That Obamacare is Working.” columnist Ezra Klein wrote: 

Today, the right struggles with Obamacare Derangement Syndrome: the acute inability 
to see Obamacare as anything but a catastrophic failure that the American people will 
soon reject. For those suffering from ODS, all bad Obamacare news is good news, and all 
good Obamacare news is spin. In this world, delays of minor provisions in the law prove 
that the entire structure is collapsing, while surges of millions of people enrolling in 
insurance don't prove anything at all.® 

II. FALSE REPUBLICAN CLAIMS AND PREDICTIONS ABOUT THE 
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT 

A. Republicans Claim the ACA Will Create “Death Panels” 

In 2009, as debate over the law’s passage unfolded, former Vice Presidential Candidate 
and Governor of Alaska Sarah Palin repeatedly claimed that the law would lead to the creation of 
"death panels” that would decide “based on a subjective judgment of their ‘level of productivity 
in society,' whether [individuals] are worthy of health care.”” 


changes, Politico (Apr. 2, 2014) (online at ww'w.politico.com,''story/2014/04/paiil-ryan-budget- 
medicare-health-carc-10.5234.html). 

® McConnell claim of Obamacare ’s ‘extraordinary^ disruption ’ for A mericans with 
health insurance, Washington Post (Dec. 10, 2013) (online at 

www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/fact-checkerAvp/20l 3.''] 2/1 0/mcconnells-claim-of-obamacares- 
extraordinary-disruption-for-americans-with-health-insurance/). 

” Whip McCarthy Re. spends to the President's Latest Enroilmenl Announcement, Rep. 
Kevin .McCarthy, Majority Whip (Apr. 17. 2014) (online at www.rnajoritywhip.gov/press- 
releasc/whip-mccarthy-responds-president%E2%80%99s-latest-enrollment-annoiincement). 

® The right can’t admit that Obamacare is working. Vox (Apr. 14, 2014) (online at 
WWW. vox. com/201 4/4/ i4./5613094/obamaeare-derangement-syndrome). 

” Sarah Palin Falsely Claims Barack Obama Runs a 'Death Panel ', Pol iti fact (Aug. 10, 

2009) (online at www.politifact.eom/truth-o-meter/statements/2009/aug/10/sarah-palin/sarah- 
palin-barack-obaina-death-panel/). 


3 



98 


The statements were immediately rejected as false by independent media organizations. 
The Washington Post listed it as one of the "whoppers” of 2009.'“ Politifact described it as the 
"lie of the year.”" But Republican members of Congress continued to repeat this false claim. 
Then-House Minority Leader John Boehner and Rep. Thaddeus McCotter released a statement 
saying that ACA "may start us down a treacherous path toward government-encouraged 
euthanasia.”'" 

In fact. Governor Palin has continued to make this false claim, stating as recently as 
August 201.J that "of course there are death panels.”"' 

B. Republicans Claim the ACA Is Unconstitutional 

During a December 2009 vote on the health reform law, every Senate Republican voted 
to declare the ACA’s individual mandate unconstitutional.'" House Majority Leader Eric Cantor 
and House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton each flatly called the 
Affordable Care Act an “unconstitutional law.”'" Rep. Steve King predicted that the Supreme 
Court would rule that the individual mandate was unconstitutional and overturn the entire law.'“ 
Rep. Michael Burgess also said, "Em confident fopponents] will prevail in defeating the 
unconstitutional individual mandate and voiding the entire statute.”'" 


Whoppers of 2009, Washington Post (Dec. 24, 2009) (online at 
WWW. factcheck.org/2009/12/whoppers-of-2009/). 

' ' Sarah Palin Falsely Claims Barack Obama Runs a 'Death Panel Pol itifact (Aug. 10, 
2009) (online at www,polilifact.com/trutli-o-meter/.statements/2009/aug/l O/sarah-palin/sarah- 
palin-barack-obama-death-panel/). 

Proposed Counseling for Seniors in Health Plan Spurs New Bailie, Washington Post 
(Aug. I, 2009) (online at www.washingtonpost.com/wp- 
dyn/content/article/2009/07/3l/AR200907.3l03148.htiTil). 

Cashin' In, Fox News (Aug. iO, 2013) 

'" Unpopular Mandate, The New Yorker (June 25. 20 1 2) (online at 
WWW. newyorker.com/reporting/20 12/06/25/1 20625fa_fact_klein?currenlPage=all). 

Virginia judge rules health care mandate unconstitutional, CNN (Dec. 13, 2010) 
(online at wwvv.cnn.corn/2010/POLlTICS/12/13/health.care/); Upton, Pitts Welcome Latest 
Court Ruling that Finds Individual Mandate Unconstitutional, House Energy and Commerce 
Committee, Majority Staff (Aug. 1 1, 201 1) (online at cnergycommerce.hoiise.gov/press- 
release/upton-pitts-welcome-latest-court-ruling-finds-individual-mandate-unconstitiitional). 

Steve King Predicts Supreme Court Will Rule OhamaCare Unconstitutional, low'a 
Republican (Apr. 4, 2012) (online at theiowarepublican.com/2()l2/steve-king-predicts-suprerne- 
court-will-rule-obamacare-unconstitutional/). 

Burgess Slalement Regarding Michigan ,Iudge Ruling On Individual Mandate, 
Congressman Michael C. Burgess (Oct. 7, 2010) (online at 
burgess.house.gov/ncws/docLimcntsingle.aspx?DocumentlD=2 1 1 234). 

4 



99 


These predictions were wrong. In June 2012, the Supreme Court upheld the ACA’s 
individual mandate as constitutional. 

Yet even after this ruling. Republicans continued to claim that the mandate was not 
constitutional. Senator Rand Paul .said, "Just because a couple people on the Supreme Court 
declare something to be ‘constitutional’ does not make it so. The whole thing remains 
unconstitutional.”'* 

C. Republicans Claim the ACA Is a Government Takeover that will Destroy 
Private Health Insurance 


Republican leaders have repeatedly claimed that the Affordable Care Act will end private 
insurance coverage. Days before the law’s passage, then-House Minority Leader John Boehner’s 
office wrote that “Democrats have opted for a government takeover of health care that will crush 
our economy like a ton of bricks.”'" Sen. Tom Coburn had an even more dire prediction, stating 
that “there will be no insurance industry left in three years.”*" 

These predictions have proven to be false. The private insurance industry remains robust. 

D. Republicans Claim Premiums Will Be Unaffordable 

In the weeks and months before the opening ofthe federal and state marketplaces, 
Republicans repeatedly claimed that premiums would dramatically increase and would be 
unaffordable. At a hearing ofthe Subcommittee on Health in March 2013, Rep. Joe Pitts 
claimed that “Americans’ premiums have already risen by more than $3,000” and predicted that 
“premiums will only grow more unaffordable for Americans.”*' In May 201 3, the Republican 
staff of the House Energy and Commerce Committee released a report predicting that consumers 
could see premium increases averaging 100% in the individual market, with increases as high as 
400% possible.** House Majority Leader Eric Cantor also claimed, "It is now projected that 


** Rand Paul: 'Obamacare ' is still imconslilulional, Politico (June 28, 2012) (online at 
WWW, politico.com/blogs/on-congress/20I2/06/rand-paul-obamacare-is-stili-unconstitutional- 
127574.html). 

President Obama Pauses to Sign Jobs Bill While Still Twisting Arms for A Job-Killing 
Health Care Plan, Speaker of the House John Boehner (Mar. 1 7, 20 1 0) (online at 
www.speaker.gov/general/econoinists-agree-government-takeover-health-care-massive-job- 
killer). 

*“ Private Health Insurance in the U.S. Will Be Dead In Three Years, Tulsa World (Oct 2, 

2010 ). 

*' House Committee on Energy and Cominerce, Subcommittee on Health, Hearing on 
Unaffordable: Impuci of Obamacare on Americans ' Health Insurance Premiums. 1 13"' Cong. 
(Mar. 15,2013). 

** House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Majority Staff, Obamacare Oversight: 
the Looming Premium Rate Shock, 1 1 3th Cong, (May 1 3, 20 1 3). 


5 



100 


ObamaCare will send health care premiums skyrocketing in the individual and small group 
insurance markets.”-^ Even after premiums were released in October 2013, Senator Ted Cruz 
said: “President Obama promised the American people Obamacare would lower your health 
insurance premiums. I would venture to say virtually every person across this country has seen 
exactly the opposite happen, has seen premiums going up and up and up.'’"*' 

In reality, marketplaces premiums came in 16% lower than the nonpartisan Congressional 
Budget Office (CBO) had originally predicted.’'' Americans flocked to the marketplaces, with 
premiums low enough that enrollment exceeded e.xpcctations. More than half of the uninsured 
were eligible for coverage that would cost them less than $100 per month.-'’ CBO projects that 
the average premium for the benchmark silver plan will rise only 3% in 2015, well below 
historic rates of premium increases.’’ 

E. Republicans Claim Healthcare.gov Could Not Be Fixed 

Republicans held multiple hearings on the technical problems with Healthcare.gov in 
October and November of last year. Some predicted that the website could never be fixed and 
that the Administration would have to start over and build an entirely new website for the federal 
marketplace. Rep. Bill Johnson wrote in an editorial titled “Healthcare.gov can't be fixed,” that 
“the problems w'ith the Healthcare.gov website are catastrophic.”’® During an Energy and 
Commerce Committee hearing on October 24, 2013, he stated, “these are more than glitches. 
They can't be fixed.”” 


” Congressman Cantor: Obamacare is Nol the Answer, Congressman Eric Cantor (May 
16, 2013) (online at cantor. house. gov/speeches/20l3/05/congrcssman-cantor-obamacare-not- 
answer/). 

” Sen. Ted Cruz says premiums have gone 'up and up and up 'for ‘virtually every 
person, ' PolitiFact (Oct. 17, 2013) (online at www.politifact.com/truth-o- 
meter/statements/2013/oct/17,''ted-cruz/sen-ted-crLiz-says-premiums-have-gone-virtually-eve/). 

” Department of Health and Human Services, Significant choice and tower than expected 
premiums available in the new Health Insurance Marketplace (Sept. 25, 2013) (online at 
WWW, hhs.gov/new'.s/press/2013pres/09/20 130925a.html). 

Department of Health and Human Services. Nearly 6 in 10 uninsured Americans can 
pay less than $100 per month for coverage in the Health Insurance Marketplace (Sept. 1 7, 2013) 
(online at www.hhs.gov/news/press/20 1 3pres/09/20 13091 7b,html). 

” Congressional Budget Office, Updated Estimates of the Effects of the Insurance 
Coverage Provisions of the Affordable Cure Acl (Apr. 2014) (online at 
wvvw.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/attachments/4523l-ACA_Estimates.pdf), 

Healthcare.Gov can 't be fixed, The Hill (Oct. 30, 2013) (online at 
thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/hcalthcare/lS8572-healthcaregov-cant-be-fixed), 

House Commitlee on Energy and Commerce, Hearing on PPACA Implementation 
Failures: Didn '/ Know’ or Didn 'I Disclose'! 1 1 3®' Cong. (Oct. 24. 2013). 


6 



101 


This prediction proved to be false. The Administration brought in management expert 
Jeffrey Zients to oversee the efforts to improve Healthcare.gov. and by December I , Mr. Zients 
and his team had made over 400 software fixes, increased the site’s capacity, and reduced page 
response times and error rates, dramatically improving the experience for consumers,^'’ 

In total, there were over 67 million visits to Healthcare.gov and over 31 million visits to 
the websites for the state-ba.sed marketplaces by April 19, 2014.^' On March 31, the last official 
day of the initial open enrollment period, Healthcare, gov handled 4,S million visite.^- 
Ultimately, over eight million Americans signed up for insurance coverage via Healthcare.gov or 
state exchanges. 

F. Renublicans Claim Obamacare Has Harmed Individual “Victims” 

On numerous occasions. Republican leaders and conservative activists have repeated 
stories of individuals who appear to have lost coverage or faced increased costs due to the 
Affordable Care Act. These stories have not been able to withstand scrutiny. 

One anecdote told by Republicans involved Ashley Dionne, who claimed the ACA would 
raise her premium from $75 per month to $319 per month.’’ In fact, because Ms. Dionne would 
likely qualify for Medicaid or tax credits, she could either pay no monthly premium for Medicaid 
or pay $23 per month for a quality silver-level plan, well below her current costs.” Since Ms. 
Dionne stated that she has a number of pre-existing conditions, the ACA would protect her from 
being charged higher rates as a result of these conditions.’’ 

Another anecdote involved Dianne Barrette, who received a cancellation letter for a 
health plan that cost $54 per month.” But Ms. Barrette’s previous plan would reimburse only a 


Department of Health and Human Services, Operational Progress Report (Dec. 1, 
2013) (online at vvww.hhs.gov/digitalstrategy/blog/2013/l2,/operational-progress-report.html). 

” Department of Health and Human Services. Health Insurance Marketplace: Summary 
Enrollment Report for the Initial Animal Open Enrollment Period (May 1,2014) (onl ine at 
aspe. hhs. gov/health/report s/20 1 4,fMarkct Place Enrol Imcnt/Apr20 1 4/ib_30 1 4.Apr_enrollment.pdf). 

Department of Health and Human Services, 7 . 1 Million Americans Have Enrolled in 
Private Health Coverage Under the Affordable Care Act (Apr. 1, 2014) (online at 
www.hhs.gov/healthcare/facts/blog/2014,/04/more-7-million-americans-are-signed-private- 
hcalth-covcrage.html). 

“ Huckabee, Fox News Channel (Oct. 1 2, 2013). 

” Good News: Obamacare Hasn’t ‘Raped’ the Future of This 26-Year-Old, The Atlantic 
Wire (Oct. 10. 2013) (online at www'.thewire.com/politics/2013/10/good-news-obaiTiacare- 
raped-future-26-year-old/70397/). 

” Id 

CBS Evening News, CBS (Oct. 28, 2013) (online at www.cbsnews.com/news/policy- 
canccllations-higher-premiiims-add-to-frustration-over-obamacare/). 


7 



102 


maximum of $50 per doctor visit and $15 per prescription drug, and it did not cover 
hospitalizations except in the case of a complicated pregnancy, when it would pay only $50, 
When she was alerted to the fact that she could likely purchase the comprehensive coverage in 
the marketplace for $150 or $200 per month, she recognized that the Affordable Care Act 
provided her with better options than the status quo. She said that she “would jump at it. ... With 
my age, things can happen. 1 don’t want to have hills that could make me bankrupt. I don’t want 
to lose niy house.""” 

Other anecdotes told by Republicans to foster fear about the new law featured individuals 
who either misstated the impact of the law' on their coverage options, chose not to take advantage 
of newly available tools to reduce costs and improve coverage, or were otherwise unaware that 
they now have access to coverage that is higher quality and more affordable than their prior 
coverage. As the Los Angeles Times stated: “virtually every yarn promoted by Republicans or 
conservatives about people hurt by the .Affordable Care Act has deflated like a pricked balloon 
on the merest examination.’’^* 

G. Renublicans Claim Medicaid Expansion Is Unaffordable 

In more than 20 states. Republican governors and state legislatures have refused to 
e.xpand lifesaving Medicaid coverage to millions of uninsured Americans, often citing the costs 
that states will have to cover as an issue. South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley said that 
Medicaid expansion would “bust our budgets.’’” Rep. Joe Barton also stated that expanding 
Medicaid would “leav[e] already cash strapped state budgets to deal with crushing costs and a 
more burdensome bureaucracy.’’” In a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen 
Sebeiius, Texas Governor Rick Perry wrote that the ACA’s Medicaid expansion would “threaten 
even Texas with financial ruin.’’*' 


” The Media Labeled Her an Obumacare Victim. Here 's What She Really Thinks, The 
New Republic (Nov. 3, 2013) (online at www.newrepublic. com/article/1 1 5457/obamacare- 
victim-florida-happy-she-can-get-real-coverage); That Florida woman's canceled Blue Cross- 
policy? It ’.s Junk insurance, Consumer Reports (Oct. 29, 2013) (online at 
www.consumerreports.org/cro/news/201 3/10/florida-woman-s-canceled-blue-cross-plan-is- 
Juiik/index.htm). 

Maybe There are no Genuine Obamacare Horror Stories, Los Angeles Times (Feb. 2 1 , 
2014) (online at www.latimc.s.com/business./hiltzik/la-fi-mh-obamacarc-horror-stories- 
20 1 40220,0,3 80 1 1 20.story#ixzz2ulBuwSie). 

Live Updates: Mitt Romney, Paul Ryan, Donald Trump to Speak at Second Day of 
CP AC 2013. ABC News (Mar. 1 5, 201 3) (online at abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2013./03/live- 
updates-mitt-rornney-paul-ryan-donald-trump-to-speak-at-second-day-of-cpac-20I3/). 

Office of the Governor Rick Perry, Gov, Perry, Sen. Cornyn, Sen. Cruz: Texas Stands 
Firm Against Medicaid Expansion (Apr. I, 2013) (online at govcrnor.state.tx.iis/news/press- 
release/18316/). 

Letter from Governor Rick Perry to Secretary Kathleen Sebeiius (July 9, 2012). 

8 



103 


In reality, the federal government covers 100% of the cost of Medicaid expansion for the 
first three years, slowly decreasing to a permanent matching rate of 90% in 2020.“*’ States that 
refuse to expand are turning down millions and even billions of dollars from the federal 
government: in 2022, Texas would receive $9.2 billion, Florida would receive over $5 billion, 
and South Carolina would receive over $800 million.*’ A Commonwealth Fund analysis found 
that states that do not expand Medicaid would still spend millions of dollars on uncompensated 
care and other costs, and “no slate would experience a positive flow of funds by choosing to 
reject the Medicaid expansion.’’*'* 

H. Republicans Claim More People Will Lose Coverage Than Gain Coverage 
under the ACA 


One easily disprovable claim made by Republicans was that the ACA would result in 
fewer insured Americans than there had been prior to the law's passage. At the end of 2013, 
Chairman Fred Upton stated, "come January 1, 2014, millions more people will have lost their 
prior coverage than signed up because of the health care law.”*’ In a press conference in March, 
Speaker Boehner said "there are less people today with health insurance than there were before 
this law' went into effect."*" Senator Marco Rubio said that during open enrollment, "[t]he 
Administration is recognizing the grim reality that more .Americans have lost health insurance 
than gained it under ObaniaCare.”*’ 

In fact, multiple analyses indicate that the ACA has led to a substantial decrease in the 
number of uninsured Americans. Gallup reported earlier this week that the percentage of 
uninsured adults fell to 13.4% in April 2014, its lowest level since Gallup began tracking this 


*’ Department of Health and Human Services, HHS finalizes rule guaranteeing 100 
percent funding for new Medicaid beneficiaries (Mar. 29, 20 1 3) (online at 
WWW. hhs, gov/news/press/20 1 3pres/03/20 lj0329a.htiTil). 

Study: Refusing Medicaid expansion will cost states billions of dollars, Washington 
Post (Dec. 6, 2013) (online at wwvv.vvashingtonpost.eom/blogs/govbeal/vvp/2013/12/06/study- 
refusing-medicaid-expansion-wiil-cost-states-billions-of-dollars/). 

** Id. 

** What HOhamacare Looks Like- When Enrollment is Abandoned as Measure of Success, 
House Energy and Commerce Committee, Majority Staff (Dec. 18, 2013) (online at 
energycommerce. house. gov./press-release/what-obamacare-looks-when-enrollment-abandoned- 
measiire-succcss). 

*" ,Iohn Boehner Says More People Are Uninsured Since Obarnacare Took Effect, 
Politifact (Mar. 14, 2014) (online at wvvw.politifact.com/truth-o- 

meter/statements/2014/mar/l S/john-boehner/john-boehner-says-more-people-are-uninsured- 
obamac/). 

*’ The GOP Claim That More Americans Have Lost Insurance Than Gained it Under 
Obarnacare, Washington Post (Jan. 6, 2014) (online at www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/fact- 
checker/wp/20 1 4/0 1 /06/thc-gop-claim-that-more-amcricans-have-lost-insiirancc-than-gained-it- 
under-obamacare/). 


9 



104 


number in January 2008. The Gallup poll found that “the uninsured rate was lower in April than 
in the fourth quarter of 2013 across nearly every key demographic group."*® This represents a 
drop of 4.6 percentage points from before the most recent open enrollment period began in 
October, corresponding to over 1 1 million people gaining insurance.'**’ Similar analyses from 
Rand and the Urban Institute found major gains in the number of Americans with health 
insurance following open-enrollment.®*’ A recent panel of health insurers, including the Chief 
Executive Officer of America's Health Insurance Plans and representatives from other major 
insurers, also agreed that “the number of insured people in the country has climbed by millions, 
despite arguments by some Republicans that the insured population has declined.”®* 

I. Republicans Claim the ACA Will Cause Job Los,s 

Republicans have claimed that the ACA will be a "job-killer” since before it was even 
signed into law. During debate over passage of the law in 2009, Rep. Paul Broun of Georgia 
predicted that the ACA was "going to destroy [thej economy . It is going to destroy jobs.’”® In 
2011, Speaker Boehner called the ACA "the biggest job killer we have in America today,” while 
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor called it "a Job killing health care bill that spends money we 
don’t have.”®® Vice Chairman of the Health Subcommittee Rep. Michael Burgess said during a 
hearing in 2013 “as we get closer and closer ... to full implementation, it becomes apparent that 


‘'® U.S. Uninsured Rate Drops to 13.4%, Gallup (May 5, 2014) (online at 
WWW, gallup.com/poli/ 1 6882 1 /uninsured-rate-drops. aspx). 

■*** Poll: Nation 's Uninsured Rale Hits Lowest Point Since 2008, Talking Points Memo 
(May 5, 2014) (online at taikingpointsmemo.com/livewire/gallup-uninsured-rate-may-all-time- 
Iow?utm_content=bufferf00l3&utm_mediiim=social&utin source=twitter.com&utm_campaign 
^buffer). 

®*’ Survey Estimates Net Gain of 9.3 Million American Adults With Health Insurance, 
RAND (Apr. 8, 2014) (online at www.rand.org/blog/2014/04/survey-estimates-net-gain-of-9-3- 
million-american-adults.html); Early Estimates Indicate Rapid lmTea.se in Health Insurance 
Coverage Under the ACA: A Promising Start, The Urban Institute (Apr. 1 5, 2014) (online at 
/h rms.urban.org/briefs/early-estimates-indicate-rapid-increase.html). 

Insurers: Millions More Have Coverage Now, Politico (.Apr. 29, 2014) (online at 
www.politico.coni/story/20l4/04/insurcrs-millions-iTiore-have-coverage-now- 
106134.html#ixzz30xPhL5W8), 

®® U.S. House of Representatives, Floor Statement by Rep. Paul Broun (Nov. 5, 2009) 
(online at www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CREC-2009-1 l-05/pdt7CREC-2009-l l-05-ptl-PgHI2368- 
7.pdf#page=l). 

®® Boehner on NBC Nightly New.s: “ObamaCare is the Biggest Job-Killer We Have in 
America Today, " Speaker .lohn Boehner (Jan. 6, 201 1) (online at 
www.speaker.gov/general/boehner-nbc-nightly-news-%E2%80%9Cobamacare-biggest-job- 
killer-we-have-america-today%E2%80%9D#sthasli.CX6jlMbG.dpiif); Transcript: Majority: 
Leader-Elect Eric Cantor’s Pen & Pad, Majority Leader Eric Cantor (Jan, 5, 201 1) (online at 
niajorityleader.gov/newsroom/201 1 /O I /transcript-majority-leader-elect-eric-cantors-pen- 
pad.html). 


10 



105 


job loss, not job creation is the actual result, Rep. Pete Olson claimed, "There are many job- 
killing, growth-stunting parts of Obamacare.”’-' Rep. Tim Murphy, Chairman of the Oversight 
and Investigations Subcommittee, said that “nearly one-fifth of the Nation's small businesses 
have reduced employment because of the Affordable Care Act.”’*’ 

These predictions have been proven wrong. In the four years since the passage of the 
Affordable Care Act. the U.S. economy has created 9.1 million jobs, with job growth in every 
single month, and the unemployment rate has declined more than three percentage points since 
the President signed the bill into law.^’ 

J- Republicans Claim the ACA Will Increase the Deficit 

Republicans have repeatedly claimed that the Affordable Care Act will add to the 
nation's deficit. Before the law was even passed. Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, said, 
“This bill does not control costs. This bill does not reduce deficits.”^* In 2013, during an all- 
night filibuster that led to the government shutdown, Senator Ted Cruz decried the ACA as a 
“debt-exploding, out of control government mess.”” "Vice Chairman of the Energy and 
Commerce Coinmittce Marsha Blackburn actually claimed the CBO had increased the overall 
projected cost of the ACA each time they had reviewed it, saying on the House Poor “my source 
on this is the Congressional Budget Office, the CBO. Every time [the ACA] has been reviewed 
. . . guess what has happened? The cost estimate has gone up.'’“ 


” House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigations, Hearing on Challenges Facing America '.s Businesses under the Patient 
Protection and Affordable. Care Act, 1 1 3‘^' Cong. (June 26, 201 3). 

” Id. 

Id. 

Jobs Report: Over 9 million Private-Sector Jobs created Since Obamacare Passed, 
Daily Kos (May 2, 2014) (online at ww.'w.dailykos.com/story/201 4/05/02/1 296328/-Jobs-Report- 
Over-9~Miliion-Pr!vate-Sector-Jobs-Created-Since-Obamacare-Pas3ed). 

Transcript: White House Health Simunil. Afternoon Session, Kaiser Health News (Feb. 
26, 2010) (online at www.l<aiserhealthnews.org,''Stories/2010/February/26/Summit-Transcript- 
Afternoon.aspx). 

” Transcript: Sen. Ted Cruz ’s Marathon Speech Against Obamacare on Sept. 24, 
Washington Post (Sept. 25. 2013) (online at 

\vww.washingtonpost.coni/sf/national/2013/09/25/transcript-sen-ted-cruzs-filibuster-against- 

obamacare/). 

“ U.S. House of Representatives, Floor Speech by Rep. Marsha Blackburn (Oct. 15, 
2013) (online at vvwww.blackburn,house.gov/videos/?VideoID=PsJV17dERNE). 



106 


These claims are not correct. The CBO has repeatedly found that the ACA will reduce 
the deficit. When the ACA was passed in 2010, CBO found that it would reduce the deficit by 
$143 billion in the first decade, and by over $1 trillion in the next decade. 

In last month’s updated review of the ,A.CA’s impact on spending, CBO reported that “a 
year-by-year comparison shows that ... estimates of the net budgetary impact of the ACA’s 
in.surance coverage provisions have decreased, on balance, over the past four years.”*- CBO 
again concluded, “the ACA’s overall effect would be to reduce federal deficits.”® 

K. Republicans Claim the ACA Will Raise Health Care Costs 


Republicans have also continually claimed that the ACA is fueling rising healthcare 
spending. Immediately after the law'’s passage, Speaker Boehner released a report which 
concluded, “American families and small businesses have been left with higher costs, more 
spending, and more debt.”® Rep. Michael Burgess predicted in 201 1 , “W'e’ve got the other 
looming problem in 2014, when the spending really accelerates out of the Affordable Care Act 
that's really going to be disruptive to the budget.”*' Earlier this year, Rep. Joe Pitts said in a 
statement about the ACA that “[g]iving Washington more control will never solve the problem 
most Americans have with health care: rising costs.”** 

In fact, health care cost growth has slowed since the law’s passage. In the three years 
after passage of the ACA, health care spending growth was at its lowest level on record.*’ 
Health care inflation is at its lowest rate in 50 years. Per capita Medicare spending rose just 


*' Congressional Budget Office, Cos/ Estimate for Pending Health Care Legislation, 
(Mar, 21, 2010) (online at cbo.gov/publ ication/25049). 

*’ Congressional Budget Office, Updated Estimates of the Effects of the Insurance 
Coverage Provisions of the Affordable Care Act (April 2014) (online at 
www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiies/attachments/45231-ACA_Estimates.pdf). 

Id. 

*’• Ohamacare: Three Months of Broken Promises, Office of the Republican Leader, 

(June 23, 2010) (online at 

www.speaker.gov/sites/speaker.house.gov/riles/UploadedFiles/ObamaCare3MonthsBrokenProm 

ises.pdf). 

*' Burgess: Delay ACA Implementation Until High Court Rules to Save Money, 
Congressman Michael C. Burgess (Aug. 18, 201 1) (online at 
biirgess.house.gov/news/docuinentsingle.aspx?DocumentlD=256684). 

** Pitts Releases Updated Memo on Health Care Reform, Congressman Joe Pitts (Feb. 20, 
20 1 4) (online at pitts.hoiise.gov/press-release/pitts-releases-updated-memo-health-care-reform). 

*’ The W'hite House, Trends in Health Care Cost Growth and the Role of the Affordable 
Care Act (Nov. 2013) (online at 

http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/docs/healthcostreport_final_noembargo_v 2 .pdf). 


12 



107 


0,7% in 2012, compared to a 5.4% annual increase only five years ago.*’* And CBO continues to 
find that health care costs have increased at a rate slower than they anticipated.'’” 

L. Republicans Claim the ACA Would Not Meet Coverage Goals 

Republicans have predicted on multiple occasions that the Administration would fail to 
reach CBO’s initial projection of seven million people signing up tor private health insurance 
through the federal and state marketplaces. After the first month’s enrollment numbers came 
out, Speaker John Boehner called the law "a rolling calamity that mu.st be scrapped,” while Rep. 
Renee Ellmers issued a statement saying that ‘'if the numbers released today are accurate, the law 
is truly collapsing quicker than anyone would have imagined.”*'’ Rep, Darrell Issa said in a 
statement that the ‘’27,000 enrollments through federally facilitated exchange pale in comparison 
to the millions of Americans who have lost their health insurance under ObamaCare."*' Sen. 
Orrin Hatch said in a statement, “at this pace, the Obama Administration will never be able to 
meet their enrollment goals.”** Speaker John Boehner more recently called enrollment “dismal,” 
adding that “the President’s push to enroll young adults is far loo little, too late,”** 

The Affordable Care Act not only met CBO’s first-year enrollment goal, it exceeded it. 
Over eight million people have now signed up for private health insurance plans through the 
federal and state marketplaces created under the ACA. Enrollments surged at the end of the 
initial enrollment period, with nearly 3.8 million people selecting a plan after March 1, 2014.’* 


** U.S. healthcare costs keep rising bill at slower pace, Los Angeles Times (Jan, 6, 20 1 4) 
(online at wwvv. latimes.com/business/la- fl-0 1 07-healthcare-spending- 
201401 07,0,7267579,story#ix2z2qlTSK386). 

Congressional Budget Office, Updated Estimates of the Effects of the Insurance 
Coverage Provisions of the Affordable Care Act (April 2014) (online at 
\vww.cbo.gov/sites/default/fi les/cbo files/attachments/45231 -ACA^Estimates.pdf). 

*" GOP rips Obamacare enrollment figures, CNN (Nov. 1 3, 2013) (online at 
www,cnn.com/2013/l 1/13/poiitics/gop-obamacarc-reaction/); Ellmers: If True, Obamacare 
Enrollment Numbers are Pathetic, Congresswoman Renee Ellmers (Oct. 10, 2013) (online at 
ellmers.house.gov/latest-news/ellmers-if-true-obamacare-enrollment-numbers-are-pathetic/). 

*' Issa Statement on Low ObamaCare Enrollment Numbers, Congressman Darrell Issa 
(Nov. 13. 2013) (online at issa.hoiise.gov7press-releases/2013/l 1/issa-statement-on-low- 
obamacare-enroliment-numbers/). 

'■ Hatch Statement on Obamacare Enrollment Numbers, Senator Orrin Hatch (Nov, 23, 
2013) (online at www,hatch.senate,gov'public/indcx,cfm/releases?ID=490afe84-b4a2-4cb8- 
a432-442a3cac835e). 

*’ New Report Shows Administration Lagging Far Behind ObamaCare Enrollment Goals, 
Fox News (Mar, 11, 2014) (online at: www.foxnews,com,/politics/20 1 4/03/1 1/administration- 
lagging-far-behind-obamacare-enrollment-goals/). 

** Department of Health and Human Services, Health Insurance Marketplace: Summary: 
Enrollment Report for the Initial Annual Open Enrollment Period (May 1, 2014) (online at 
aspe,hhs.gov/health/reports/20 l4/MarketPlaceEnrollment/Apr20 1 4/ib_20 14Apr^enroliment.pdf), 


13 



108 


Additionally, 4.8 million individuals enrolled in Medicaid and CHIP between October 2013 and 
March 2014.’® CBO estimates that five million people also purchased ACA-coinpiiant plans 
outside of the marketplaces this year.’® 

M. Republicans Claim Individuals Have Not Paid Their Premiums 

The most recent example of incorrect and misleading claims by Republicans about the 
Affordable Care Act is the claim that few people have paid their AC.A premiums. An April 30, 
2014, analysis by the Republican staff of the Energy and Commerce Committee reported that 
only 67% of individuals who had signed up for an ACA plan through the federal and state 
marketplaces had paid their prciniunis. ” Chairman Fred Upton claimed, “the administration’s 
recent declarations of success may be unfounded.”’® 

But this report was flawed and incomplete because it was based on premium payment data 
from April 1 5, 2014. At that time, many ACA enrollees were not yet required to pay their 
premiums.’'’ By April 1 5, eight million people had enrolled through the ACA exchanges. Three 
million of these enrollees signed up after March 15, 2014, and for these individuals, premiums 
w'ere not due until the end of April at the earliest. 

Additional recent data from insurers shows that the conclusions by the Republican staff 
were not correct. The Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, whose member companies offer 
plans in almost every ACA marketplace, indicated that between 80% to 85% of individuals had 
paid their premiums by the end of April.®® The CEO of America’s Health Insurance Plans, the 


” Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Medicaid & CHIP: March 2014 Monthly 
Applications, Eligibility Determinations, and Enrollmeni Report (May 1 , 2014) (online at 
vvwvv.medicaid.gov/AffordableCareAct/Medicaid-Moving-Forward-2014/Downloads/March- 

2014-Enrollment-Report.pdf). 

Congressional Budget Office, Updated Estimates of the Effects of the Insurance 
Coverage Provisions of the Affordable Care Act (April 2014) (online at 
www.cbo.gov/sitcs/default/files/cbofilcs/attachmcnts/45231-ACA Estimates.pdf). 

” Committee Learns Who 's Paid for Ohamacare: As of April 15. Only 67 Percent of 
Enrollees in Federal Marketplace Had Pain First Month 's Premium, Committee on Energy and 
Commerce. Majority Staff (Apr. 30, 2014) (online at energycommerce. house. gov/press- 
release/comiTiittee-learns-vvho%E2%80%99s-paid-obamacare-april-t 5-only-67-percent- 
enrollecs-federal). 

’® Id. 

See Memorandum from Democratic Staff to Democratic Members and Staff of the 
House Committee on Energy and Cojnmerce, Misleading Republican Report on ACA 
Enrollment (Apr. 30, 2014). 

Blue Cross Says '80-85 ’ Percent of Ohamacare Enrollees Are Paying, Forbes (Apr, 2, 
20 1 4) (online at www.forbes.com/sites/bruceJapsen/20 1 4/04/02/bliie-cross-plans-say-80-to-85- 
percent-of-obainacare-enrollccs-are-paying/). 


14 



109 


industry trade group, stated this week that 85% of individuals enrolled in exchange plans have 
paid their premiums.*' 

III. CONCLUSION 

Repeatedly over the last five years, Republicans in Congress have made inaccurate 
claims and predictions about the Affordable Care Act. They have been wrong about the 
constitutionality of the law, w'rong about the law's impact on premium cost and affordability and 
health care spending, wrong about the impact of the law on health care coverage, wrong about 
the impact of the law on jobs, wrong about the impact of the flawed rollout ofHealthcare.gov, 
and wrong about the extent to which the law's state and federal exchanges would meet 
enrollment goals. Last week, they were wrong about how many ACA enrollees were actually 
paying premiums. 

Contrary to the Republican claims, the factual evidence indicates that the law is working. 
It has reduced health care costs and provided affordable, quality coverage for millions of 
Americans. 


*' Briefing by Karen Ignagni, President and CEO of America’s Health Insurance Plans, to 
Politico Pro Health Care Breakfast (Apr. 29, 2014). 


15 



110 


ONE HUNDRED THIRTEENTH CONGHtSS 

Congress of tlie Unittto 

Isosist ot 

COV>'' >tF )r ( '» 1 ' - i,T I 1 '".'"1 ' E 
?1?6 RA'-orasi Houiii. On s.r 
Wi-aKNaToaj, DC 70515-6115 


June 27, 2014 

Mr. Mark Prall 

Senior Vice President of Slate Affairs 
America’s f-lealih Insurance Plans 
60! Pennsylvania Avenue, N,W. 

South Building, Suite 500 
Washington. D,C. 20004 

Dear Mr. Prall: 

Thank you for appearing before the Subcommittee on Oversight and invesligations on 
Wednesday, May 7, 2014, to lestify at the hearing cniitied 'TPACA BnroHmem and the Insurance 
Industry," 

Pursuant to the Rules of flic Conimiliec on Energy and Commerce, the hearing record remains 
0 {)cn for ten business days to permit Members lo submit addilionai questions for the record, which are 
atiaciied. The format of your rcsponsc.s to these questions should be as follows: ( i ) the name ot the 
Afember w'hosc question you are addressing, (2) the complete text of the question you are addressing in 
bold, and (3) your answer to that question in plain text, 

To facilitate The printing of the hearing record, please respond to these questions with a 
transmittal letter by the close of business on Friday, July 1 1 , 2014. Your responses should be mailed lo 
Briliaiiy Havens, l..egis!alivc Clerk, Committee on Energy and Commerce, 2125 Rayburn House Otflcc 
Building, Washington. D.C. 205 I 5 and e-mailed in Word foriTuit to bi 'i t tany, h a v ens@mail. ho us e. gov , 

Thank you again for your time and effort preparing and delivering testimony before the 
Subcommittee. 


Sincerely, 



Chairman 

Subeontmittee on Oversight and invcsiigations 
cc: Diana DeCetlc, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Oversight and investigations 


Attachment 



Ill 


America's Health 
Insurance Plans 

601 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
South Building 
Suite Five Hundred 
Washington, DC 20004 

202,778.3200 

www.ahip.org 




AHIP 


July 11,2014 

The Honorable Tim Murphy 
Chairman 

Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 
House Energy and Commerce Committee 
2125 Rayburn Building 
Washington, D.C, 20515 

Dear Chairman Murphy: 

I am writing in response to your letter of June 27, 2014 to provide answers to the questions that 
were submitted in writing by members of the subcommittee. My responses are included in the 
attached document. 


Sincerely, 



Mark C. Pratt 


Attachment 


cc: The Honorable Diana DeGette, Ranking Member 



112 


House Energy' and Commerce Committee Hearing 
on “PPACA Enrollment and the Insurance Industry” 

May 7,2014 

Responses to Questions for the Record 

by Mark Pratt, Senior Vice President, State Affairs, America’s Health Insurance Plans 


Questions From the Honorable Marsha Blackburn; 

1. Mr, Pratt, has your organization done any analysis on whether consumers have been able 
to keep the doctors or medical providers they enjoyed prior to full implementation of the 
health care law? Please describe this analysi.s and submit it for the record. 

AHIP Response : AHIP recently commissioned a report from Milliman that examines 
how health plans use provider networks a.s a tool to keep costs down and to ensure that 
their members are receiving high quality care. The report describes how collaborative 
relationships between health plans and providers are leveraged to improve outcomes, as 
well as how provider networks are integrated into the health plan's benefit design. 
Moreover, the authors found that the use of high-value provider networks results in a 5 to 
20 percent reduction of premiums, The full report is available at 
www.ahip.or<i/MillimanReportHPN2014/ . 

2, Has your organization done any analysis on the networks of providers offered by 
providers selling plans on the federal exchange? Please describe this analysis and submit 
it for the record. 

AHIP Response ; Please see the response to Question 1 above. 


Questions From the Honorable Michael C. Burgess; 

1 . While some of the basic problems with the front-end components that individuals face on 
HealthCare.gov have been addressed, numerous news sources continue to report that 
problems still plague the back-end systems that affect insurers. 

a. Have any significant improvements been made to these components? 

AHIP Response : While improvements have been made, much work remains to 
address several outstanding issues for full functionality of the federally-facilitated 
Marketplace (FFM). Work is now underway to reconcile enrollment data 
between health plans and the FFM - a key step to ensure consistency in the data 
between the FFM and the insurer that will be completed by early Fall. Plans 
continue to use manual and semi-automated processes to process special 
enrollment period enrollments through the temporary Change in Circumstance 


1 



113 


(CIC) functionality as the FFM docs not have the functionality to support a fully 
automated solution for insurers, 

b. How will these continued problems affect plan participation and premiums for 
2015? 

AHIP Resnonse : We do not have sufficient information to make these types of 
projections. 

2. 834 transmissions provide insurers with enrollment information for individuals from 
HealthCare.gov. It has been repeatedly reported that there are numerous errors in these 
transmissions with failure rates of over 30%. 

a. Has this been your experience? 

AHIP ResDonse : As reported in my testimony, health plans have had to continue 
to perform manual processes and work-arounds that were necessitated by the 
problems that surfaced in the days and weeks following the October 1 launch and 
outstanding back-end issues, W'e are not in a position to provide infomiation on 
specific failure rates. 

b. What is your estimation of the failure rate? 

AHIP Response : As we do not process enrollments directly, we are not in a 
position to comment on the specific failure rate of 834 files. 

c. Has the failure rate improved over time and by how much? 

AHIP Resnonse : As we do not process enrollments directly, we are unable to 
comment on the specific failure rate of 834 files. As I mentioned above, our plans 
have indicated there are improvements, but 834s in response to “Life events” still 
require manual proce.ssing to ensure accurate enrollment data and premium rates. 

d. What problems has this caused for your companies, your cnrollees, and contracted 
providers? 

AHIP Respon.se ; Our member companies have been doing everything possible 
to ensure that back-end problems do not negatively impact health plan cnrollees 
and contracted providers. However, we are aware of reports that 834 challenges 
can be error-prone and have negatively impacted some consumers. 

3. Due to problems with the 834 transmissions, there have been reports and witness 
testimony about a large number of duplicate enrollments. 


2 



114 


a. Do you have an estimation of the number of duplicate enrollments in your 
system? 

AHIP Response : As 1 indicated in my testimony, some consumers were advised 
to create a new account and enroll again. As a result, insurers have many 
duplicate enrollments in their system for which they never received any payment. 
In cases where an insurer has a new enrollment for a consumer who previously 
enrolled, they are not expecting that original policy to be effectuated - even 
though that data is still reported. However, as we do not process enrollments 
directly, we are not in a position to provide specific numbers of duplicate 
enrollments. 

b. Do you think the Admini,stration has included duplicate enrollments in their 
enrollment totals? 

AHIP Response : We do not have any information in this area. 

4. The Obama Administration issued a final regulation in 2012 saying that enrollees would 
enter a 90-day grace period for non-payment of premiums before their coverage is 
terminated. The final rule stipulates that insurers only have to pay valid claims for the 
first 30 days of the 90-day grace period. 

a. If enrollees do not continue to pay their premiums and they enter a grace period, 
do you plan to pay providers for claims during the entirety of the grace period? 

AHIP Response : As mentioned in the question, health insurers have the option of 
only paying claims during the first month of the three-month grace period and 
pending claims during the second and third months. While our members are 
taking various approaches to implement the regulations, W'e do understand that 
most health plans are not paying claims during the entirety of the grace period. 
However, we do want to point out the requirements in the regulations and CMS 
guidance that health insurers are required to notify providers if their patients are 
currently in the grace period. 

b. If you do not pay the claims, who will make providers whole? 

AHIP Re.sponse : We understand that upon receipt ofoutstanding premium 
payment, health plans will re-process any pended claims and reimburse the 
providers according to existing agreements, if the enrollee does not pay past due 
amounts, the provider may seek payment from the enrollee. 

c. Do you have a reconciliation process with providers for recouping payments 
made for claims incurred during a grace period? 



115 


AHIP Response : For those health insurers that choose to only pay claims during 
the first month of the grace period, they will pay those claims using existing 
processes. During the second and third months, health plans have the option to 
pend claims, thus there is no reconciliation process necessary. As indicated 
above, upon receipt of premium payment, health plans will pre-process claims 
and pay using existing processes. 

d. Do you have any data on the number of enrollees who fail to pay their premiums 
after the first month? If so. please provide this data. 

AHIP Response : We do not have any such data. 

5. One of the major concerns raised about the implementation of the law i.s that individuals 
may stop paying their premiums at some point, enter a 90-day grace period and 
eventually their coverage will be canceled due to nonpayment. 

a. Do you know how many enrollees are currently covered but behind on paying 
their premiums? 

AHIP Response : No. 

b. The law says that you must provide this information to HHS. Arc you doing so? 

AHIP Response : Per existing CMS guidance, in the FFM, health plans were 
required to report this information to CMS as part of the required monthly 
enrollment reconciliation. However, this process has not yet been fully 
implemented. In addition, upon termination for non-payment of premium, health 
plans are required to send a termination 834 file to CMS which will indicate the 
reason for termination as ■‘non-payment of premium.” 

c. W'hat is the process for communicating with providers when enrollees enter a 
grace period? 

AHIP Response : In accordance with 45 C.F.R. § 1 56.270(d)(3) and CMS 
guidance, health insurers must notify providers that may be affected (meaning at 
least providers that submit claims for services rendered during the grace period) 
that an cnrollec has lapsed in his or her payment of premiums. Issuers may utilize 
automated electronic processes to convey such notices. The notice must indicate 
there is a possibility that the issuer may deny payment of claims incurred during 
the second and third months of the grace period if the enrollee exhausts the grace 
period without paying the premiums in full. Insurers are required to notify all 
potentially affected providers as .soon as is practicable when an enrollee enters the 
grace period. 


4 



116 


6. Because of the signiBcant back-end issues with HealthCare.gov, there i.s a strong 
possibility for inaccurate premium subsidies being paid to insurers from the federai 
government. The Washington Post recently reported that the federal government is likely 
providing inaccurate premium subsidies to more than one million new enrollees. 

a. is there a reconciliation process in place to either recoup payments that were too 
low or return payments that were too high? 

AHIP Response : On a monthly basis, health insurers arc submitting enrollment 
and other data so that CMS may provide premium and cost-sharing subsidies to 
insurers. As part of this process, to provide updated information about regular 
enrollment changes, in addition to submitting information about the current 
month, health insurers are also making adjustments to past months (e.g.. in the 
case of an incorrect enrollment or retroactive termination). We are not in a 
position to answer questions regarding the process to correct subsidy information 
for those individuals that have an “inconsistency” at this time. 

b. Please describe the process if there is a process in place. 

AHIP Response ; Please see the response to Question 6(a.). 

c. If there is a process, have any miscalculated payments been reconciled? 

AHIP Response : Please see the response to Question 6(a.). 

d. If miscalculated payments have been reconciled, how many have been processed? 
AHIP Response : We arc not in a position to answer this question. 

e. Please provide an estimation for the administrative cost of these miscalculations if 
possible. 

AHIP Re.SDOiise : We are not in a position to answer this question. 

f. How might the miscalculation of payments affect plans for next year in terms of 
participation or premiums? 

AHIP Response : We are not in a position to answer this que,stion. 

7. The ACA imposes an annual health insurance industry fee on carriers based on their 
proportion of market .share. 

a. How is this fee affecting premiums currently and in the future? 


5 



117 


AHIP Response : The ACA’s lax on health insurance has increased the cost of 
coverage for consumers. An analysis by the actuarial firm Oliver Wyman 
estimated that the tax would increase premiums by 2.1 percent on average in 
2014. Since the amount the tax is required to collect increases over time, 
premiums in 2023 are estimated to be, on average, 3.25 percent higher than they 
would be without the tax. The full analysis by Oliver Wyman is available at 
hltD://ahip.org/lssues/Documents/20l l/Oliver-Wvman-Stiidv-Tstimaled- 
Premium-lmpacts-of-Annual-Fees-Assessed-on-Health-insurance-Plans.aspx . 

A subsequent analysis, also by Oliver Wyman, estimated the state-by-state impact 
of this tax, and is available at liltp://www'. ahin.org/WvinanState . 

b. How is this fee affecting the decision to participate in the marketplace? 

AHIP Response : Prior to the passage of the ACA, the Congressional Budget 
Office noted that the law’s health insurance tax would be "largely passed through 
to consumers in the form of higher premiums for private coverage” (CBO Letter 
to Sen. Bayh, November 30, 2009). This tax, along with other taxes and fees 
associated with providing health insurance, increases the cost of coverage and 
makes coverage less affordable — particularly for small businesses and individuals 
purchasing coverage in the exchange. 

Questions From the Honorable Pete Olson; 

1 . In your experience, has CMS built the operation function to pay health plans participating 
in the Federally Facilitated Marketplace? Specifically are the Advanced Premium Tax 
Credit and the Cost Sharing Reduction payment amounts currently working? 

AHIP Response : Yes, it is our understanding that the current manual processes are 
working. On a monthly basis, health insurers are submitting enrollment and other data so 
that CMS may provide premium and cost-sharing subsidies to insurers. As part of this 
process, if there was a change in enrollment, in addition to submitting information about 
the current month, health insurers are also making adjustments to past months (e.g,, in the 
case of an incorrect enrollment or retroactive termination). We understand that CMS is 
in the process of building the fully automated process under which CMS would be 
providing this information directly to health insurers. 

2. Are you aware of how CMS accounts for the monies collected by the Federally 
Facilitated Marketplace user fee? If yes, then in your experience how does the money 
generated by this fee used for the operation of the Federally Facilitated .Marketplace? 

AHIP Response : On a monthly basis, health insurers provide CMS with information 
related to enrollment and total premium which is used by CMS to calculate the FFM user 


6 



118 


fee which are netted against subsidy payments to insurers. We are unaware of what 
happens once these fees are collected. 

3. Are there outstanding 834 transactions? If yes, has CMS offered any explanation as to 
why? And if they have explained, what does CMS attribute the delay to? 

AHIP Response : We are aware that for the individual market, the outstanding 834 
transactions involve the 834 maintenance transaction which is used to report changes to 
demographic information (name, address, phone number) and report changes due to a 
special enrollment period (change in APTC, new plan, etc.). To support these types of 
changes without the full transaction, CMS has implemented the temporary Change in 
Circumstance (CIC) functionality which requires manual work by health insurers in order 
to process. 

In addition, the process of submitting 834 files for enrollment reconciliation has not yet 
been implemented. An interim process will begin in July of 2014. We are unaware of 
the reason for the delay. 

All 834 transactions related to the SHOP marketplace were deferred for 2014, and will be 
implemented for the 2015 plan year due to the delay of direct enrollment for the SI lOP. 

In 2014 eligible employers can enroll directly w ith the health insurance plan. 

Questions From the Honorable Morgan Griffith: 

I. One of the most troubling side-effects of Obamacare is happening across the country to 
patients who have found that their physicians - particularly specialists - are not part of 
their new health plan networks. During the open enrollment period for PPACA, 
individuals had limited information about whether their doctors were covered in a 
particular plan. Once enrolled, far too many of my constituents are faced with a difficult 
choice - give up their specialist or pay the high cost sharing required for out-of-network 
physicians. 

a. What can I tell my constituents to do in the next open enrollment period to 
determine which specialists are covered in their Exchange plans? 

AHIP Response : Similar to last year, health plans are required to make their 
provider directories available to the Marketplace for publication online by 
providing the URL link to their network directory. CMS expects the URL link to 
direct consumers to an up-to-date provider directory where the consumer can 
view the provider network that is specific to a given QHP. This is where all 
potential enrollees must go prior to enrollment to verify that their 
providers/specialists are part of the health plan's provider network before 
enrolling. This year, new guidance requires the URL provided to the Marketplace 
to link directly to the directory, such that consumers do not have to log on, enter a 


7 



policy number, or otherwise navigate the issuer’s website before locating the 
directory. 

What kind of information about provider networks will be available to help them 
choose a plan? 

AHIP Response : Regulations and CMS guidance require health plan provider 
directories to include location, contact information, specialty, medical group, any 
institutional affiliations for each provider, and whether the provider is accepting 
new patients. CMS encourages issuers to include languages spoken, provider 
credentials, and whether the provider is an Indian health provider. 

What is your company doing to improve transparency about provider networks 
next year to make it easier for patients to keep access to their existing specialists? 

AHIP Response : In addition to the information above, we want to make clear 
that health plans work every day to ensure their provider directories are accurate 
and up-to-date. Thus it is very important for existing enrollees to review their 
health plan’s provider directory during open enrollment and if their providers are 
not available, to make a change to another qualified health plan available in their 



120 


Hf.f) L'n'ON. .vi; 


HfcNRy A. WAKMA.^, CAiJfC)RNi/i 
RAWKIK'G MSWSBtR 


ONE HUNDRED rHlRTELNTH CONGRESS 

Congress of tljc linrtefi States' 

ijoiiiSr of firprcSfiitatitocs" 

COMMIT'' tL 0'^l trJLr^G' aNT fOMMERCE 
2150 R 1 ^ If 

W , > DC ftTb 


June 27, 2014 


Mr. l-'rniik Coyne 
Vice Prcsidcnl ofOpcralions 
ClucflVansformalion Officer 
Blue Cross Blue Shietd Association 
1310 G Street. N.W. 

Washington. D.C. 20005 

Dear Mr. Co\ne; 


I'hank you for ajiipcarittg before the Subcommittee on OversigiU and investigations on 
WA'dnesday, May 7. 20H, to testify at the hearing entitled ''PPAC,‘\ Hnroilmeni and the insurance 
[ndustr>\" 


Pursuani to the Ruics of the Committee on Energy and Coitimcrcc, the hearing record remains 
open for ten business days to permit Members to submit additional questions for the record, which arc 
attached. The format of your responses to these questions should be as foilows: (!) the name of the 
Member whose question you are addressing, (2) the compietc text of the question you are addressing in 
bold, and (3) your answer to that question in plain text. 

To facilitate the printing of the hearing record, please respond to these questiorts wiili a 
transmittal letter by the close of business on Eriday, July 1 1 , 2014. Your responses should be mailed to 
Briiiciny I lavcns. Legislative Clerk, Committee on Energy and Commerce. 2125 Rayburn House Office 
Building, Washington. D.C. 205 I 5 and e-maifed in Word format to britlany.havcnsf'dTnai i.hou sc.gov - 

'I'hnnk you again for your time and enbri preparing and delivering testimony before the 
Subcommittee. 


Sincerely, 

5 f 

* f 

I im Murphy 
Chairrnan 

Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 
cc: Diana DcGettc. Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 


Auacliincijl 



121 



BliicCross BUicShield 
AssodalJon 

A?i Association of Independent 
Bine Gross und BiueSliieki Plans 


August 4, 2014 


The Honorable Tim Murphy 
Chairman 

Committee on Energy and Commerce 
Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigations 

U.S, House of Representatives 
2125 Rayburn House Office Building 
Washington, DC 20515 


The Honorable Diana DeGette 
Ranking Member 

Committee on Energy and Commerce 
Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigations 

U.S. House of Representatives 
2125 Rayburn House Office Building 
Washington, DC 20515 


Dear Chairman Murphy and Ranking Member DeGette: 


Thank you for your June 27, 2014 letter. The information you have requested is attached. 


Sincerely, 



Alissa Fox 

Senior Vice President 

Blue Cross Blue Shield Association 



122 


The Honorable Marsha Blackburn 

1. How many insurance policies has Blue Cross Blue Shield sold in Tennessee via the 
federal exchange? How many did the Tennessee Blue sell in 2012 and 2013? 

As of today, we have sold 120,121 policies through the Federally Facilitated Marketplace 
(FFM). This includes any policies that have since cancelled/terminated after being 
effectuated. 


According to our internal Direct Markets Sales Report, the number of policies .sold in our 
Individual under 65 line of business for the two prioryears is as follows: 

o 2013^20,644 
0 2012-18,143 

2. What difficulties has Blue Cross Blue Shield experienced with the implementation 
of the health care law? What difficulties do you expect in the future? 

Like other health plans, we have experienced issues with accuracy and completeness of 
data transmitted from the Federally Facilitated Marketplace. We have worked closely with 
federal officials and consumers to make sure we have the correct information in enrolling 
new members through the Marketplace. The Administration continues to finalize the 
"back-end" functionality of HealthCare.gov, and health plans are doing a significant amount 
of the work manually. Our number one goal is for our customers to have a good 
experience, and Blue Plans will continue to work around the clock to help consumers 
navigate the new system. 


Ih.e- H .a n .Bia M e-M„ii: hae , l , , C, Bu r ge ss 

1. While some of the basic problems with the front-end components that individuals 
face on HealthCare.gov have been addressed, numerous news' sources continue to 
report that problems still plague the back-end systems that affect insurers, 
a. Have any significant improvements been made to these components? 

There is still significant amount of work needed on the back-end and Plans are doing a 
much of the work manually. This includes: 

o Payment systems: the 820 electronic payment transaction still must be put in 
place, so in the interim, Plans are submitting excel spreadsheets; 
o Enrollment reconciliation; and 



123 


o Processing life event changes such as the birth of a child or getting married. 

h. How will these continued problems affect plan participation and premiums 
for 2015? 

Our number one goal is for consumers to have a good experience and get enrolled in the 
Plan of their choice. We will continue to work to ensure consumers have access to 
affordable, high quality health coverage. 


2. 834 transmissions provide insurers with enrollment information for Individuals 
from HealthCare.gov. It has been repeatedly reported that there are numerous 
errors in these transmissions with failure rates of over 30%. 

a. Has this been your experience? 

b. What is your estimation of the failure rate? 

c. Has the failure rate Improved over time and by how much? 

d. What problems has this caused for your companies, your enrollees, and 
contracted providers? 

BCBSA is not an issuer and does not have a system to capture 834 transmissions: therefore 
we do not have the information necessary to answer these questions 


3. Due to problems with the 834 transmissions, there have been reports and 
witness testimony about a large number of duplicate enrollments. 

a. Do you have an estimation of the number of duplicate enrollments in your 
system? 

No, this is not something we track. 


b. Do you think the Administration has included duplicate enrollments in their 
enrollment totals? 

We do not know the methodology the administration used in calculating enrollment 
numbers. 

4. The Obama Administration issued a final regulation in 2012 saying that enrollees 
would enter a 90-day grace period for non-payment of premiums before their 
coverage is 



124 


terminated. The final rule stipulates that insurers only have to pay valid claims for 
the first 30 days of the 90-day grace period. 

a. 1 f enrollees do not continue to pay their premiums and they enter a grace period, 
do you plan to pay providers for claims during the entirety of the grace period? 

BCBSA is not a health insurance company and does not pay provider claims. However, we 
note that while the CMS Exchange Final Rule Issued in 2012 allows issuers to pend claims 
during the second and third month of the ACA's 3 month grace period, issuers are required 
under the regulation to retroactively terminate coverage to the end of the first month of the 
grace period if an enrollee receiving advance payments of the premium tax credit exhausts 
the 3-month grace period without paying all outstanding premiums. Specifically, Section 
156.270(g} says "the QHP Issuer must terminate the enrollee's coverage on the effective 
date described in Section 155.430(d)(4),'’ which is “the last day of the first month of the 3- 
month grace period," 

b. If you do not pay the claims, who will make providers whole? 

In general, state grace period requirements preceded enactment of the ACA's 3-nionth 
grace period. Under these requirements, issuers, providers and consumers follow 
established policies which typically address instances when individuals incur claims from a 
provider and that individual is not a covered member in a health plan. BCBSA is not a 
health insurance company and does not pay provider claims. 

c. Do you have a reconciliation process with providers for recouping payments 
made for claims incurred during a grace period? 

No, BCBSA is not a health insurance company and does not write health insurance plans or 
policies, 

d. Do you have any data on the number of enrollees who fail to pay their premiums 
after the first month? If so, please provide this data. 

No, we do not have the data to answer this question. 


5. One of the major concerns raised about the implementation of the law is that 
individuals may stop paying their premiums at some point, enter a 90-day grace 
period and eventually their coverage will be canceled due to nonpayment. 

a. Do you know how many enrollees are currently covered but behind on paying 
their premiums? 



125 


No, BCBSA does not collect this data. 

b. The law says that yon must provide this information to HHS, Are you doing so? 

No, BCBSA is not a health insurance company, therefore does not collect this data. 

c. What is the process for communicating with providers when enrollees enter a 
grace period? 

As Plans implement requirements for the ACA's three month grace period, Plans continue 
to use the communication methods that work best with providers in their local 
markets. BCBSA does not collect the methodologies Plans use to communicate with their 
providers. 


6. Because of the significant back-end issues with HealthCare.gov, there is a strong 
possibility for inaccurate premium subsidies being paid to insurers from the federal 
government. The Washington Post recently reported that the federal government is 
likely providing inaccurate premium subsidies to more than one million new 
enrollees. 

a. Ls there a reconciliation process in place to either recoup payments that were too 

low or 

return payments that were too high? 

b. Please describe the process if there is a process in place. 

c. If there is a process, have any miscalculated payments been reconciled? 

d. I f miscalculated payments have been reconciled, how many have been 
processed? 

e. Please provide an estimation for the administrative cost of these miscalculations 
if possible. 

f. How might the miscalculation of payments affect plans for next year In terras of 
participation or premiums? 

Based on the recent HHS Office of the Inspector General report on inconsistencies, while 
over one million new enrollees are currently in the inconsistency period, it does not 
"necessarily indicate that an applicant provided inaccurate information or is enrolled in a 
QHP or is receiving financial assistance through insurance affordability programs 
inappropriately," Since the beginning of the year, issuers have received monthly payments 
for subsidized enrollees from CMS through an interim payment process based on 



126 


aggregated payment data. CMS has indicated that later this year, issuers and CMS will 
transition to a member-level payment process and reconcile all payments previously made 
under the interim process. CMS has not published specific details of the tran.sition or 
reconciliation process, and thus BCBSA does not have any estimates of the administrative 
costs associated with the transition or reconciliation. 


The Honorable Pete Olson 

1. In your experience, has CMS built the operation function to pay health plans 
participating in the Federally Facilitated Marketplace? Specifically are the Advanced 
Premium Tax Credit and the Cost Sharing Reduction payment amounts currently 
working? 

Since the beginning of the year, is.suers have received monthly payments for subsidized 
enrollees from CMS through an interim payment process based on aggregated payment 
data. CMS has indicated that later this year, issuers and CM.S will transition to a member- 
level payment process and reconcile all payments previously made under the interim 
process. CMS has not published specific details of the transition or reconciliation process. 

2. Are you aware of how CMS accounts for the monies collected by the Federally 
Facilitated Marketplace user fee? If yes, then in your experience how does the 
money generated by this fee used for the operation of the Federally Facilitated 
Marketplace? 

For the Federally Facilitated Marketplace that is run primarily by the federal government 
{which includes 32 states including the Partnership states), the federal government u.ser 
fee will apply to insurers in order to help the funding of the marketplace. Currently, user 
fees charged by the federal government cover the majority of costs related to the continued 
operation of federally facilitated marketplace. For example in FY 2015, user fees will fund 
66% of the operating cost for the federal marketplace. httn://cms.hhs.gnv/Ahniit- 
C M „ S ,/A gencY-lnforma t io n/P erformanceBudget/Download.s /FY 2ni.5-CI-Final pdf (see page 
31) These user fees will support activities such as the enrollment, consumer outreach, 
education and assistance activities that health plans currently pay themselves. 
Marketplaces are required by the ACA to be self-sustaining on January 1, 2015. 


3. Are there outstanding 834 transactions? If yes, has CMS offered any explanation 
as to why? And if they have explained, what does CMS attribute the delay to? 



127 


BCBSA is not an issuer and does not have a system to capture 834 transmissions; therefore 
we do not have the information necessary to answer these questions 


The Honorable Morgan Griffith 

1. One of the most troubling side-effects of Obamacare is happening across the 
country to patients who have found that their physicians- particularly spedalists- 
are not part of their new health plan networks. During the open enrollment period 
for PPACA, individuals had limited information about whether their doctors were 
covered in a particular plan. Once enrolled, far too many of my constituents are 
faced with a difficult choice- give up their specialist or pay the high cost sharing 
required for out-of-network physicians. 

a. What can 1 tell my constituents to do in the next open enrollment period to 
determine which specialists are covered in their Exchange plans? 

We would advise encouraging consumers to make use of the searchable, web-based 
provider directory tools that health plans make available to determine which specialists 
participate. If the consumer has trouble finding or using the tool, he or she should call the 
Plan’s customer service line, 

b. What kind of information about provider networks will be available to help them 
choose a plan? 

As independent companies, Blue Plans all provide searchable web-based directories to help 
consumers find providers by name or by type within a geographic region (e.g., all in- 
network cardiologists by county, or within a 5 mile radius of a zip code). The directories 
typically include information about the provider’s accessibility and quality. For hospitals, 
the directory will likely indicate whether it’s a Blue Distinction Facility (a hospital 
recognized on the basis of extensive criteria developed with medical specialty societies - 
such as the track record for procedure results - as having proven expertise in delivering 
that specialty care), and overall patient reviews on a five-star scale; for physicians, the 
directory will likely show not only basics such as board certification, accepting new 
patients, uses e-prescribing, wheelchair accessible, but also various quality metrics such as 
the "Blue Recognition Program" (primary care physicians who are active in a national, 
regional, and/or local quality improvement and/or recognition program), clinical quality 
measures (e.g., breast cancer screening rates), and patient ratings, 

c. What is your company doing to improve transparency about provider networks 
next year to make it easier for patients to keep access to their existing specialists? 



128 


Every year Blue Plans update and enhance the quality information available about in- 
network providers, and strive to maintain the accuracy of their directories. As accredited 
organizations, qualified health plans must meet specific standards. For example, NCQA 
requires that plans' physician and hospital directories contain the most current 
information, that plans test the directory for understanding and member ease of use, and 
make the directory available in other formats (e.g., printed, by telephone) for those who do 
not want to or cannot search a web-based directory. 



129 




HtNFYA vVAXMA^J, CAUFORNiA 
HANKiAiG 


ONE HUNDBEO THiRTEENTH CONfiRESS 

Cattgres'S of tijr lititrt States 

l^ousr of SfpitsMflttiics' 

cofiiMiTTrt CM .wn ccm^vierce 

l/l ft t l H'J ' ’Ol! E. I ’ B il ' 

w. . >Mix;T‘oCir 


June 27. 2014 


Mr. Paul Wingle 
Excciitive Dircclor 

Individual Bu.sincss & Public Exchange Operations and Sfndegy 
Aetna 

15! i-’annington Avenue 
I lartford, CT 06156 


Dear Mr. Wingle: 


Thank ymi for appearing before the Subconimittee on Oversight and Investigations on 
Wednesday. May 7. 2014. to testify at the hearing enlilied “PPACA Erirollnicnt and the Insurance 
Industry," 


Pursuant to the Rules ofthc Committee on Energy and Commerce, the liearing record remains 
open for ten business days to permit Members to submit additional Cjuestion.s for the record, which arc 
attached. The formal of your responses to these questions shoiild be as follows: {1} the name ol the 
Member \vh()se (jiiestioti you are addressing, (2) the complete text of the question you arc addressing in 
hold, and (.3) your answer to that question in phiiii text. 

Also attached are Member requests made during the hearing. The format of your responses to 
these requests should follow the same formal as your responses to the adciiliona! questions for the record 

To racihiatc the printing of the hearing record, please respond to these questions and requests 
with a [ransinifia] Icuer by die dose of business on rriday, July 1 i , 20 1 4. Your responses should be 
mailed to Brittany Havens, Legislative Clerk, Committee on Energy and Commerce, 2 125 Rayburn 
Hou.se Ofilee Building, Wa-siiington, D.C. 20515 and c-mailcd in Word format to 
brittanv.ha v ens@nail.hoiisc.eov , 

Thank you again for your time and effon preparing and delivering le.stimony before the 
Subcoininittec. 


Sincerely, 

Tim Murphy ^ Vj 

Chairman 

SubcominitTee on Oversight and Investigations 
cc; Diana DeGcite, Ranking Member, SubcominiUee on Oversight and invesfigations 


Attachments 



130 


Akin Gump 

STRAUSS HAUER & FELD LLP 


STEVEN R. ROSS 

• 1 202 B87.4343i'fax: » 1 202 ,887 4288 
sfo?s$l>Bkingutnp com 


September S, 2014 


VIA HAND OELIVEKY 


The Hnnorabio Tim Miirphy 
Chili rniaii 

Suhconiniiltcc on Oversight unri liivcstigiitions 
Commillec on Energy and Commerce 
2123 Rayliiini Mouse OlTicc Building 
Washington, DC 20,315 

Dear Chairman Murpliy: 

On behalf of Aetna hie. (“Aetna” or “the Company”), we write in response to your June 
27, 2014 Idler {llie “Letter”) containing questions for the rccoa! and additional iiifortTialion 
requests made in conneclion with the Subcominittec’s May 7, 2014 hearing, “PPACA Enrollment 
itnd the Insurance Indtislry.” As disc!is.sed with Committee staff, today’s sutimi.ssion tKidrc,s.scs 
many of the questions posed by the Members of the Committee in your (xllcr. As tiddilionally 
discussed with Committee slalT, Actn;i looks fonviird to meeting with staff to lurlher discuss the 
balance ol these question.s. Please note thiti today’.s submission include.s relevant informiilion for 
all AcltKi .stibsiditirios, including entities acquired through Aetna’.s acquisition of Coventry Health 
Care. Inc,, and al.so for Innovation Health, a joint venture between Aetna and Inova Health 
System, As requested, and for the question.s and suliparLS addre.sscd in this sul>mis.sion, we have 
provided the infcirmalion below in a format cor.si.stcnt with the .Subeommillee’s letter. Please 
note, as outlined below, that certain of the iutomiation provided in this submtssiofi is proprietary 
in nalurc, and we respectfully request that it be treated accordingly. 


I’hc Honorable Michael < *, Biirness 


1. While some of the bask problems with the front-end components that individuals faeeoii 
HealtliCare.gov have been addres.scd, numerous news sources continue to report that 
problems still piague the back-end system.s that affect insurer,s. 

a. Have any significant improvements been made to these components? 


Robert S. Strauss Oulldittg i 1333 New HaiTtpshire Avenue. NAV.. ; Wa^ington. D.C. 20036-1S64 ; 202,887,4000 fax: ?02,887.428f 



131 


Akin Gump 

STHAUSS HAUER & FELO tlP 


Seplcmber S, 20 1 4 
Page 2 


Aetna’s experience with the implemcntiition of the Federally Facilitated Marketplace 
(“FFM”) has been generally consislcnt with the wcli-publicued issues identified during the 2014 
Open Gnrolitnetit. Sttnie improvements have been made but more arc needed. Aetna's 
experience is thtil the buck-end, operational components of the FFM are not yet complete, 
Specilically, there arc gaps in the FFM’s F.ligibtlily and Enrollment Module, and the FFM’s 
Financial MtmageiTicnl Module remains incomplete. For cxtimple, carriers send 834 Icrroitiiilion 
lnins,iclion.s to the FFM, but it is unclear if they are procc.ssiiig them. 

Ensuring that the FFM baefc-ond is fully automated remains a key concern. Aetna 
continuc.s to work with CMS, as appropriate, to address is.sues caused by these lechiiiciil 
problems and m mitigate potential disruption to consumers. 

b. How will these continued problems affect plan participation and premiums for 
2015? 


Aetnti uses ses'eral criteria to make decisions about pstrlicipating in the public exchanges, 
including its ahilily to ofler competitive products and services, projected medical cost experience 
with (he popuhilion, and risks ttnd uricertainlie.s associated the reguhitory and operuliomil 
environment. For 2015, Aetna’s public exchange footprint i,s likely to be similar to 2014 {to iilso 
include Georgiii), but the Company’s psirlicipiition on any public exchange i.s not final until its 
fiiing.s — which include products, itelworks, and ralc-S — arc approved and Aetna chooses to .sign 
the liiiai participation tigreemenl. 

2. 834 tran»mis.S!On.s provide insurers with enrollment information for individuals from 
HealthCare.gov. It has been repeatedly reported that there are numerou.s errors in these 
tr!insmi,s,sion.s with failure rate of over 30%. 

a. Has this been your experience? 

Cotisisiciil with CIMS guidance, Aetna reviews CMS-provided data to { I ) remove 
duplicate records and (2) ideniijy data inconsfsiencie.s on enrollment files for new niemlrer,s 
trtinsmitled by the FFM. It i.s the Coiiipaiiy’s experience that X34 transmission issues which 
would cau.se an enrollnicm failure arc typictdly resolved by working with CMS. 

b. W hat i.s your c,stimation of the failure rate? 

Plciisc see Aciria’s rcspon.se to Oucstion 2ii above, 

c. Has the failure rate improved over time and by how much? 



132 


Akin Gump 


Scplcmber 8, 2014 
Page 3 


Please sec Aclna's response to Question 2a tibove. 

d. Wha! problems has this caused for your companies, your enrollecs, and contracted 
providers? 

As iioluti above in the rcs]x)iise to Question !<i, ensuring that the FFM hack-emi is ftiliy 
aulomiilet) rciniiins a key concern for Aetna moving forward. The hick of back-end automation i.s 
among the wclt-pubiicizcd issues thtit led to the ACA’s roil-oul problems and many ttccounls of 
consumer fru.slraiion. 

Aetnti remains concerned that reconciliation of appropriate data between plans and CIMS 
is not occurring properly and is leading to confu.sion between plans, beneficiaries, iind CMS in 
certain instances. For example, when Aetna terminates coverage for lack of premium payment 
(alter significtinl customer outreach and nolifictition), it sends notice of termination records to 
CMS — but it is unclear if they tire processing them. As :t result, Aetna’s experience is that CMS’ 
records may indictitc that those mcmber.s continue to have coverage even though Aetna’s records 
ticcunitely relied cancclliition of that covcrtige due to non-payment. Therefore, tlitrsc members 
mtiy receive arnflicling information iiboin their coverage status if they contact both CMS and 
Aetna. Acimi has rai.scd this issue with CMS and retpic.stcd improvements It) their system to 
address this problem. 

Aetna docs not ictaiii federal subsidy payments for customers for the ntonlhs in which 
their covcnige has been lerminalcd. As appropriate, Aetna will cominiic to offer feedback to 
CMS and Congress to help resolve opcrtitional issues and to mitigate the potential disruption to 
beneficiaries tiiid employers, 

3, Due to problems with the 834 tran,smi.s.sions, there has'e been reports and witrie.s.s 
testimony aiwut a hirjjc number tif duplicate enrollments. 

!i. Do you have an estimation of the number of (iuplicateenrolinieiits in your system? 

As described in Aetna's response to Quc.stion 2a above, coiisislenl with CMS guidtincc, 
the Company rcvicw.s CMS-providcd data to remove duplicate records before they arc applied to 
its system. Aetna docs not track the numiter of duplicate eiiroilmem.s that htivc been .scot by 
(,MS tintl, Iherclorc, docs not have sufficient inft)rmalion 10 answer this question, 

1>. Do you think the Administrotion bus inciudeti duplicate enroilments in their 
enrollment totals? 

Aetna docs not have .sulTicieiil informaliim to tinswer this question. 



133 


Akin Gump 

STRAUSS HAUER & FELD LLP 


Sepicmbcr 8, 2014 
Piige 4 


4. The Ohiima Administralion issued a fimi! reguiatuiii in 20i2 saying that cnroliees would 
enter a 90-day grace period for non-payment of premiums before their coverage is 
terminated. The final rule stipulates that insurers only have to pay valid claims for the first 
,30 days of the 90-day grace period. 

a. If enrj)llec,s do not continue to pay their premiums and they enter a grace period, do 
you plan to pay providers for claims during the entirety of the grace period? 

Consisicnl with upplicabie regulations and regulatory guidance, Aetna admiiiialers 
policies within the ninety-day “grace period” to minimize pniemial risks to providers. It i.s 
common practice for providers to verify the member’s coverage before the member receives 
care. Providers typically reach out lo Acttiii in any of three standard ways- — through a wch-based 
eligibility confirmation tool, by phone call, or by a fax int(uiry. If a provider asks through any of 
those chiiiincls about a member whose policy is in the grtico period, Aetna will so itrform the 
provider, who then has notice that the raeinlrer may end up without coverage for services 
performed during the .second and third months of the grsico period. 

Aetna updiites the iibove data sources on a daily basis to cn.siire that providers have 
accc.ss to current inlbrmation alxjut the member’s covcrtige status. Aetna makes paymcnl.s for 
claims incurred during a grace period in ticcordance with regulatory guidance. The Comptiiiy 
ptiys claims in line with the member's phin during the first month of the grace period and then 
holds, or "pciKis.” claims that it receives during the second or third inoiitlis of a grace perittd. 
Actmi does not pay those claiins unless and until the sub.scriber becomes current on premium 
ptiymcnts. 

b. If you do not pay the claims, who wilt make providers whole? 

Please see Aetna’s re.spon.se to Question 4a above. In iiddilion, it i.s important to 
underscore that providers have access to information — on a daily basis — that would tillow them 
lo determine if a patiem has paid hi.s or her premium. 

c. Do you have a reconciliation process with providers for recouping payments made 
for claims incurred during a grace period? 

No. PIciise .see Aeltiii’s rc.spon,sc to Question 4a above. 

5. One of the major contcrn.s raised about the implementation of the law i.s that individuals 
may stop paying their premiums at some point, enter a 9»-day grace period and eventually 
their coverage will be canceled due to nonpayment. 



134 


Akin Gump 


September K, 2014 

Page 2 


b. The law says that you must provide this information to HfIS. Are you doing so? 
Yes. Aetna reports rtelira|uciicy status dtila to IIHS on a ditily Itti.sLs. 

e. What is the process for communicating with providers when enroHees enter a grace 
period? 

Pica.se see Actna'.s rc.sponse to Oue.stioii 4a above. 

6. Because olTht* significant back-end issues with HealthCarc.gov, there is a strong 
possibility for inaccurate premium subsidies being paid to insurers from the federal 
government. The Washington I’o.st recently reported that the federal government is likely 
providing inaccurate premium .subsidies to more than one million new enrollees. 

a. Is there a reconciliation process in place to either recoup payments that were too low 
or return payments that were ton high? 

Aetna follows relcviiiil processes iliai CMS has implemented with respect to Exchange 
cu.slonicr enrollment tmd subsidy iiirormatioii. Aetna does not have information thal would allow 
it to independently delcrmine the accuracy of premium subsidies. Aeltia applies the subsidy 
araoiiiiLs lha! CMS tran.smils to the Company in the S34 files. CMS may change those iimounls 
Ironi niomh to inontli for various rcasoas. including changes in an cnrolicc’s income. When 
CMS luiikcs such a chtingc, they are sent to Aetna on an 834 file, and Aetna tipplics the cliiinge. 
CMS is the sole source of the relevant d.ila and docs not provide .Aetna with infornialion that 
would permit the Company to detcrniinc why a .subsidy timount ehanged. Aetna does not retain 
Icdentl subsirly pjtynienfs lot customers in Ihe mortths where their coverage is no longer in effecl. 


h. I'lease describe the process if there b a pri)ee.ss in place. 

PIciise see Aetna’s response lo Oucsiion fia above. 

c. If there i.s u proce.ss, have any miscsslcuiated payments been reconciled? 

Please .sec AcUttt’.s rc.spoa.se to Questktn ha ttbove. 

d. If miscalculated payments have been reconciled, how many have been processed? 
Please ,sce Aetna’s response to Ounslion 6a tibovc. 



135 


Akin Gump 

STRAUSS MAUSR & FSID t-LP 


Seplembcr iS, 2014 
PilgC () 


c. Please provi<lc an estimation for the administrative cost of these miscalculations if 
possible. 

Aelna does not separately track the atlministnitive costs related to llic handling of APTC 
changes, 

f. flow might the miscalculation of payments atTect plans for next year in terms of 
participation or premiums? 

Please see Actnti’s response to Oucstion IB iibovc. 

7. If a pitiviticr calls your company for information on the health care law, what re.source.s 
or information is your company able to provide? 

Aelnii has dcdictiled provider service centers with trained rcprcsciitiUives who can 
answer questions from providers on the AlTorcliibie Dire Act and other issues. Aetna also has 
built wcbsile.s (including, e.g., hllp;//www.actna.com/heulth-rcl'orm-amncction/reform- 
expliiiiied/) that provkie infornialion for providers and consumers rcgttrding the ACIA. 

9. How many plans ha.s your company sold off-txchange in 2014? Provide this information 
for each state in which you sell. 

Please note that Aetna previously provided Ihis information in u confidential submission 
to the Commillce on .luiic 25. 2(114. This .subniLssion included such off-cxchangc information us 
of the end of the day on May 20, 2014. 

Tile Honorable Pete Olson 


1. In your experience, iia.s CMS built the operation function to pay health plans 
participating in the federally feidlitated Marketplace? .Specifically are the Advanced 
Premium Tax Credit nnd the Cost Sharing Reduction payment amounts currently 
working? 


Aetna i.s currently u.siiig the interim payment process designed by CMS. CMS’ fiiitil 
interim payment process has not yet been implemented. 

2. Are you aware of how CiMS accounts for the monies collected by the Federally 
Facilitated Marketplace user fee? If yes, then in your experience how does the money 
generated by this fee used for the tipersition of the Federally Facilitated Marketplace? 



136 


Akin Gump 

STRAUSS HAUER & TEED ILP 


SepLcniber S, 2014 
Page 7 


No, Aetna fe not aware of how CMS iiccounts for the monies collected by the Federally 
Fiicilitiitcd Miirkctph'ice user fee. 

3. Arc there oiilslanding 834 transactions? if yes, has CMS offered any explanation as to 
why? And if they have explained, what tines CM.S attribute the delay to? 

Aclmi has no iiisiglit imo CMS’ outstanding 834 transactions. The company receives 8.34 
files from CMS on a daily ba.sis. and processes all transiiclions accordingly. 

The Honorable Moruan {!riffith 

1. One of the most troubling side-effects ofObamiicare is happening across the country to 
patients who have found that their physicians - particularly specialists - are not part of 
their new health plan networks. Ouring the open enrollment period for PPACA, individuals 
had limited information about whether their doctors were covered in a particular plan. 
Once enrolled, far too many of my constituents are faced with a diflicult choice - give up 
their specialist or pay the high cost sharing retiuired for out-of-networh physicians. 

a. What can I tell my constituents to do in the next open enrollment period to 
determine which specialists are covered in their Exchange plan.s? 

Aeliia's dedicated cuslcmcr service centers arc available to help your conslituenls and 
Aetna ’.s customers understand Ihcir desired plan's network coverage. The Company hti.s tilso 
developed online sites specific lo its exchange networks to help curreni and prospective 
customers understand wiiiclr providers arc part of the exchange network in their area. Examplc.s 
of these sites can be viewed at: 

iittp://www.acinii.coni/dsc/search?siic_id=QualifiedHealthPlan Doctors and 
htlp://fl.coveiitrypcoviders.com. The Company continues to work to enhance it.s provider 
directory search capabilities for ca.se ofu.se by mentbers. 

b. What kind of information about provider networks will be availahic to help them 
choose a plan? 

Plca,se see Aetna’s response lo Question la above. 

c. What is your company doing to improve transparency about provider networks next 
year to make it easier for patients to keep access to their exLsting .specialists? 

Please see Aetna's response lo Question la above. 



137 


Akin Gump 

S TRAUSS HAUSR & f ELD LLP 


Sepicmber 8, 2014 
Page 8 


Thte HotidrahleTim Murnhv 

1. Provide information on the number of plans your organijation has sold in the Federally 
Facilitated Marketplace. 

Ple:i.sc note ilitn Aetna prcviou.sly provided this inlornialion in a conndenlial submission 
to ilic Committee on May 29, 2014. Tliis submission included such enrollment inromialion as of 
the end of lire day on May 20, 2014. 


Please note, tis indicated .-ibove, (hid certain of Ihe inlornialion provided in Ihi.s 
submi,s.sion is proprietary in nature, and we respectfully request tlial it be treated accordingly. 
Additionally, please note that certain of the rcspon.se.s included in lodtty’s submission refer to 
information that Aetna ha.s previously provided in separate, confidential submission, s to lire 
Committee, As discussed with Committee sliilT, by referring to .such infonnation above, it is not 
Aetna’s intctition to incorporate it, by reference or otherwise, into today’s submission, and we 
rcspcclfully ask the Committee lo prc.serve the confidentiality of this inlbrnialion. Moreover, wc 
respectfully renew our request that Conimiilec .staff provide ns vvilli notice tmd an opportunity to 
be heard before the Committee disclose.s lo third parties any .such information, nolwithsumding 
our requesLs to the conlrary. contained in any previou.s confidential submi.ssions. If the 
Committee intends lo make .any such infomitition that we previously provided in connection with 
Ihi.s inquiry public in any way. wc rc.spccifiiily request Ural till information be aggrcgtitcd tind de- 
idenlificd. Further, should the Commillee make any such inronmilion public in ;tny way, we 
respectfully requc.sL that the information treing provided be disclosed LOgether with all 
accompanying legends, footnotes, and discliiimer.s, in order lo avoid polcmiul confusion over the 
cimiparabilily of (he information provided, anti any other information that Actiui may publicly 
disclasc or oilier inciisures Aclmi may disclose that may— in Ihe absence of such citirifying 
notes — appear .similar despite import:int differences in the basi.s of preparation. Our provision of 
the enclosed information i.s not intended to constitute a waiver of the atiorney-clicnl, allomey 
work product, or any other applicable rights or privileges, in this or any other forum, and Aetna 
expressly reserves its rights in this regard. 



138 


Akin Gump 

STRAUSS HAUER & FELD LLF 


Seplcniber tS, 2{)I4 
Page y 


Please let me know if you have any questions. 



The Honorable Diana DeGetie, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigations 



139 


ONE !■■!U^-DRED Tr*IRTFE:''l'm CONGRESS 

CoiiQTfs's' of tfif llnitrt States' 

Jifiisr at tt[u .acirtiitibcs 

f f r » j I nr t V f' \ \ t ' E 


June 27,20!4 


Mr. Brian livanko 

President, fndividua] Segment 

Cigna \ lealtli and Life insurance Company 

900 Collage Grove Road 

Bloomfield, CT 05002 

Dear Vir. Evanko; 

I'hatik vou for appearing before the SubcoiTiiiiittee on Oversight and Invesligations on Wednesday. May 
7. 2014. !o icslify at the hearing entiUed "PPACA Enrotlmeni and the Insurance Industry.'' 

Pursuani to the Rules offhe Ctointnittce on Energy and Commerce, ihc hearing record remains open for 
ten business day.s to permit Members to submit additional questions for the record, which are attadied. 1 he 
format of your responses to the.se questions should be as follows: (1) the name of the Member whose question 
you arc addressing, (2) the complete text of the question you are addressing in bold, and (3 } your answer to that 
question in plain text. 

Also attached arc Member reque.sts made during the licaring, The formal oi your responses to these 
requests should follow the same format as your responses to the additional qije.stions for the record. 

To facilitate the printing of the hearing record, plca.se respond to these questions and requests with a 
iransiTiitial letter by the close of business on Friday. July ! 1, 2014. Your responses should be mailed to Brittany 
i iavens, 1-cgislativc Clerk, Committee on Energy and Commerce, 2125 Rayburn House Office Building, 
Wnshington, D.C, 205 1 5 and c-mailed in Word format to brittanv.havciis-@maii. hous e. guv . 

I’iiaiik you again for your time and effort preparing and delivering testimony before the Subcommittee. 


Sinccreiv. 



Urn Murplty ^ 

Clutirnian 

Subcommittee on Oversight and investigatioiis 

cc: [Diana DeCjeite, Ranking Member. Subcommittee on (Dversight and In^•estiga^ions 


Attachments 



140 


Responses of Brian Evanko 
President, U.S. Individual Segment 
Cigna Corporation 

Hearing Before the House Energy & Commerce Committee 
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 
“PPACA Enrollment and the Insurance Industry” 

Attachment 1; 

Additional Requests for the Record 

The Honorable Michael C. Burgess 

I. While some of the basic problems with the front-end components that individuals 
face on HeathCare.gov have been addressed, numerous news sources continue to 
report that problems still plague the back-end systems that affect insurers. 

I.a. Have any significant improvements been made to these components? 

Response: Cigna docs not have first-hand knowledge of what improvements 
CMS has made to the front-end components ofHealthCare.gov, With regard to 
the back-end components, there are still processes that are in interim status or not 
yet developed. Other back-end systems have experienced improvement. For 
example, the quality of the 834 enrollment transactions improved over the course 
of open enrollment. CMS also improved its ability to electronically accept and 
communicate changes to existing policies (e.g., changes due to life events). 
Moreover, an interim enrollment reconciliation process completed testing in June 
and will be used to reconcile enrollment data between insurers and CMS. Cigna 
believes that these improvements must continue in order for the marketplace to 
function effectively. 

l.b. How will these continued problems affect plan participation and premiums 
for 2015? 

Response: Among other issues, many of the back-end processes, including the 
interim reconciliation process, remain largely manual, which is more burdensome 
and slower than a fully automated process. Issues regarding back-end processing 
were a factor in our assessment of whether to expand our participation on the 
Exchanges for 2015, These issues, however, have not had a material impact on 
premiums. Despite the ongoing issues with the back-end systems, Cigna will 
continue to work with CMS and other regulatory authorities to reduce the burden 
on Cigna customers and to help ensure access to Cigna’s health insurance 
products. 



141 


2. 834 transmissions provide insurers with enrollment information for individuals 

from HealthCare.gov. It has been repeatedly reported that there are numerous 
errors in these transmissions with failure rates of over 30%. 

2.a. Has this been your experienee? 

Response: The table below provides the percentage of 834 enrollment 
transactions sent to Cigna for new enrollees in the Federally Facilitated 
Marketplace that were defective. A transaction was considered defective if errors 
were present that prevented the transaction from being received and fully 
processed by Cigna. The figures in the table below reflect the best information 
currently available to Cigna from other sources and show' that the percentage of 
defective 834 enrollment transactions has generally decreased over time. 


October 

November 

December 

.January 

February 

March 

April 

May 

2013 

2013 

2013 

2014 

2014 

2014 

2014 

2014 


fREDACrtD 


2.b. What is your estimation of the failure rate? 

Response: Please see our response to Question 2.a. 

2.C. Has the failure rate improved over time and by how much? 

Response: Please see our response to Question 2.a. 

2. d. What problems has this caused for your companies, your enrollees, and 

contracted providers? 

Response: Defective 834 enrollment transactions may cause a number of 
problems for enrollees. For example, errors in the 834 enrollment transactions 
may prevent or delay the effectuation of an insurance policy and/or slow the 
reconciliation of subsidy payments. Additionally, flawed data can create a 
situation where family members (e.g., spouses and/or dependents) are incorrectly 
not included on a health insurance policy. 

3. Due to problems with the 834 transmissions, there have been reports and witness 
testimony about a large number of duplicate enrollments. 

3. a. Do you have an estimation of the number of duplicate enrollments in your 

system? 

Response: Cigna has received approximately 3,000 duplicate enrollments. 


2 



142 


3. b. Do you think the Administration has included duplicate enrollments in their 

enrollment totals? 

Response: I do not know how the Administration calculated its enrollment 
figures. 

4. The Obama Administration issued a final regulation in 2012 saying that enrollees 
would enter a 90-day grace period for non-payment of premiums before their 
coverage is terminated. The final rule stipulates that insurers only have to pay valid 
claims for the first 30 days of the 90-day grace period. 

4. a. If enrollees do not continue to pay their premiums and they enter a grace 

period, do you plan to pay providers for claims during the entirety of the 
grace period? 

Response: In accordance with applicable regulations, Cigna will pay claims for 
the first 30 days of the grace period. Additional claims may be paid if the 
customer becomes current on his or her premium payments. Cigna would not be 
a part of any further payment arrangements between a provider and a patient, 

4.b. If you do not pay the claims, who will make providers whole? 

Response: Please see our response to Question 4.a. 

4.C. Do you have a reconciliation process with providers for recouping payments 
made for claims incurred during a grace period? 

Response: Please see our response to Question 4,a, 

4.d. Do you have any data on the number of enrollees who fail to pay their 
premiums after the first month? If so, please provide this data. 

Response: Please see Cigna’s May 29, 2014 production to the Committee, in 
which it provided data (current as of May 20, 2014) regarding the number of 
plans in the second and third month of the grace period.' 


Tetter from Michael D. Bopp to The Honorable Fred Upton, The Honorable Tim Murphy, 
The Honorable Joseph R. Pitts, The Honorable Michael C. Burgess, The Honorable Joe 
Barton, and The Honorable Marsha Blackburn (May 29, 2014). 


3 



143 


5. One of the major concerns raised about the implementation of the law is that 
individuals may stop paying their premiums at some point, enter a 90-day grace 
period and eventually their coverage will be canceled due to nonpayment. 

5.a. Do you know how many enrollees are currently covered but behind on 
paying their premiums? 

Response: Please see Cigna’s May 29, 2014 production to the Committee, in 
which it provided data (current as of May 20, 2014) regarding the number of 
plans in the second and third month of the grace period.’ 

S.b. The law says that you must provide this information to HHS. Are you doing 
so? 

Response: Cigna provides regular reports to CMS in compliance with applicable 
laws and regulations. These reports include information to help CMS limit 
subsidy payments to enrollees who are eligible. 

5. C. What is the process for communicating with providers when enrollees enter a 

grace period? 

Response: Cigna has developed telephonic and online enrollment verification 
systems to make it easy for providers to determine enrollee eligibility. 
.Additionally, Cigna has online resources related to PP.ACA that are available to 
everyone, including providers (see, e.g., http://www.cigna.com/health-care- 
reform/). 

6. Because of the significant back-end issues with HealthCare.gov, there is a strong 
possibility for inaccurate premium subsidies being paid to insurers from the federal 
government. The Washington Post recently reported that the federal government is 
likely providing inaccurate premium subsidies to more than one million new 
enrollees. 

6. a. Is there a reconciliation process in place to either recoup payments that were 

too low or return payments that were too high? 

Response: As an insurer, Cigna receives the amount of the premium subsidy as 
determined by CMS on the 834 enrollment file and/or pre-audit file. Cigna is not 
a party to the enrollment process through which income and other data is 
collected and that is necessary to calculate the premium subsidy for each 
individual or household. Insurers offering plans on HealthCare.gov are under an 


• Letter from Michael D. Bopp to The Honorable Fred Upton, The Honorable Tim Murphy, 
The Honorable Joseph R. Pitts, The Honorable Michael C. Burgess, The Honorable Joe 
Barton, and The Honorable Marsha Blackburn (May 29, 2014), 


4 



144 


obligation as part of the Qualified Health Plan contract with CMS to bill the 
amount of the tax subsidy communicated to the insurer by CMS. Insurance 
companies, including Cigna, would be unable to determine if the amount of the 
premium subsidy communicated via the CMS enrollment file is correct or 
incorrect. Ultimately, Cigna must rely on the information received from CMS 
regarding subsidy eligibility and the amount of any subsidy provided to an 
enrollee. 

It is Cigna’s understanding that the reconciliation process to determine if an 
individual or household received too little or too much of a premium subsidy will 
involve comparing the individual’s 2014 reported income information from their 
tax return with the amount of the premium subsidy from the Exchange as part of 
the tax filing process. It is also Cigna’s understanding that any over- or 
underpayments of the premium subsidy would be collected or paid via the tax 
filing process. 

6.b. Please describe the process if there is a process in place. 

Response: Please see our response to Question 6.a. 

6.C. If there is a process, have any miscalculated payments been reconciled? 

Response: If any reconciliation has taken place Cigna, as an insurer, would not be 
informed. Cigna must rely upon the information provided by CMS. If enrollment 
information (including subsidy information) changes for an enrollee, Cigna would 
receive an updated enrollment transaction from CMS. However, premium 
subsidy amounts could be updated for a number of reasons, including individuals 
reporting updated income information. Accordingly, Cigna would be unable to 
determine if the cause of premium subsidy change was the updated information 
from the enrollee or a reconciliation due to “miscalculated payments.” 

6.d. If miscalculated payments have been reconciled, how many have been 
processed? 

Response: Please see our response to Question 6.c. 

6.e, Please provide an estimation for the administrative cost of these 
miscalculations if possible. 

Response: Please see our response to Question 6.c. 

6.f. How might the miscalculation or payments affect plans for next year in terms 
of participation or premiums? 

Response: Please see our response to Question 6.c. 


5 



145 


7. If a provider calls your company for information on the health care law, what 
resources or information is your company able to provide? 

Response: If a provider is looking for general information on the health care law, we 
refer to them to our award-winning online resource “Informed on Reform,” which is 
available at www.cigna.com/'health-care-reform . Should a provider have specific 
questions about our plans and benefits, our customer service agents and health care 
professional experience teams are equipped to discuss plan designs, essential health 
benefits, and in-network and out-of-network reimbursements. 

8. How much has your company been paid to date in premium tax credits? 

Response: Cigna received approximately $60 million in Advance Premium Tax Credit 
payments from January 2014-June 2014. 

9. How many plans has your company sold off-exchange in 2014? Provide this 
information for each state in which you sell. 

Response: Please see Cigna’s June 23, 2014 production to the Committee, in which it 
provided data (current as of June 16, 2104) regarding off-exchange enrollments.’ 

^ 

The Honorable Pete Olson 

1. In your experience, has CMS built the operation function to pay health plans 
participating in the federally Facilitated Marketplace? Specifically are the 
Advanced Premium Tax Credit and the Cost Sharing Reduction payment amounts 
currently working? 

Response: Cigna has received subsidy payments from CMS and, hence, there is a 
process in place to make subsidy payments to health insurance providers participating in 
the Federally-Facilitated Marketplace. As to whether the Advanced Premium Tax Credit 
and the Cost Sharing Reduction payment amounts are currently working, payments are 
being made. Cigna must rely on information from the government when reconciling 
subsidy payments. 


’ Letter from Michael D, Bopp to The Honorable Tim Murphy and The Honorable Diana 
DeOelte (June 23, 2014). 


6 



146 


2. Are you aware of how CMS accounts for the monies collected by the Federally 
Facilitated Marketplace user fee? If yes, then in your experience how does the 
money generated by this fee used for the operation of the Federally Facilitated 
Marketplace? 

Response: We are not a position to comment on how CMS accounts for the monies 
collected by the Federally-Facilitated Marketplace user fee. 

3. Are there outstanding 834 transactions? If yes, has CMS offered any explanation as 
to why? And if they have explained, what does CMS attribute the delay to? 

Response: Based on our interpretation of what is meant by “outstanding 834 
transactions,” Cigna has observed that some 834 transmissions contain errors (e.g., 
inaccurate or incomplete information), and Cigna works with CMS and the enrollee to 
rectify those errors. In other instances, Cigna may receive an 834 transmission for an 
enrollee who opts not to effectuate his or her policy by paying the first month’s premium, 

* * * 

The Honorable Cory Gardner 

1. How many plans offered by your company did you cancel or discontinue in 2013 

because of the health care law? Provide this information by the number of plans in 
each state and the total for your company nationwide. 

Response: In 2013, 938 health insurance plans were cancelled for policy holders in 
Connecticut, To clarify my testimony on this point at the May 7, 2014 hearing, Cigna did 
not also cancel non-PPACA compliant health insurance plans in South Carolina. In.stead, 
Cigna offered extensions to policy holders in South Carolina following the 
Administration’s announcement regarding the ability to grandfather certain health plans 
through 2014 that would otherwise not be permitted under PPACA. 

Additionally, due to the availability of guaranteed issue individual health insurance 
coverage through the Exchanges, various states, including Georgia and California, 
repealed their statutes that required Health Maintenance Organizations to offer 
conversion coverage for individuals who ceased to be eligible for coverage under a group 
health plan. .As a result of these repeals, and the fact that these states now offer 
guaranteed issue individual policies, Cigna terminated the 150 conversion policies in 
California and seven conversion policies in Georgia, 

Finally, 158,906 cancellation notices were sent to limited benefit plan policy holders in 
various states. These policies, which can no longer be sold due to certain provisions in 
PPACA, offered lower premium and coverage options for individuals. 


7 



147 


2. How many plans did your company offer early renewal to in 2013 so they could 
continue in 2014 that would have otherwise been cancelled, ended, or otherwise 
modified by the health care law? Provide this information by the number of plans 
in each state and the total for your company nationwide. 

Response: Cigna offered renewals in all states where it offered individual health 
insurance products, except for Connecticut. The chart below is based upon information 
currently available to Cigna and details the number of renewals for non-PPACA 

plans offered in 2013. The total number of renewals offered nationwide was 


Arizona California | Colorado Florida I Georgia Carol^hia 


RnOACTED 


3. Last year the President apologized for the plans cancelled by the health care law 

and offered a delay of the enforcing of the requirements that led to the cancellations. 
This delay has since been extended. How many plans do you currently offer that do 
not meet the law’s requirements but you are continuing to offer as a result of this 
policy? Provide this information by the number of plans in each state and the total 
for your company nationwide. 


Response: Cigna no longer sells health insurance plans that are not PPACA compliant to 
new customers. The chart below is based upon information currently available to Cigna 
and details the number of non-PPACA compliant plans that were active for existin g 
customers as of May 31, 2014. The total number of such plans nationwide was|ll|j||B 



8 








148 


* * * 

The Honorable Morgan Griffith 

1. One of the most troubling side-effects of Obamacarc is happening across the 

country to patients who have found that their physieians — particularly specialists — 
are not part of their new health plan networks. During the open enrollment period 
for PPACA, individuals had limited information about whether their doctors were 
covered in a particular plan. Once enrolled, far too many of my constituents are 
faced with a difficult choice — give up their specialist or pay the high cost sharing 
required for out-of-network physicians. 

l.a. What can I tell my constituents to do in the next open enrollment period to 
determine which specialists arc covered in their Exchange plans? 

Response: Cigna is not offering Exchange plans in Virginia. However, as a 
general matter, Cigna is constantly evaluating its provider networks to ensure 
customer affordability and quality. Moreover, Cigna is undertaking an effort to 
simplify and clarify its online provider directory to make it easier for consumers 
to find accurate information on which providers are in Cigna’s networks. 

l.b. What kind of information about provider networks will be available to help 
them choose a plan? 

Response: Please see our response to Question l.a. 

l.c. What is your company doing to improve transparency about provider 
networks next year to make it easier for patients to keep access to their 
existing specialists? 

Response: Please see our response to Question l.a. 


9 



149 


* 

Attachment 2: 

Member Requests for the Record 

The Honorable Tim Murphy 

1. Provide information on the number of plans your organization has sold in the 
Federally-Facilitated Marketplace. 

Response: Please see Cigna’s May 29, 2014 production to the Committee, in which it 
provided data (current as of May 20, 2014) regarding the number of Exchange plans 
Cigna has sold.* 

2. Provide any analysis eonducted by your organization in 2012, 2013, or 2014 on the 
impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act on the premiums paid by 
consumers. Provide any other analysis conducted on deductibles, out of pocket 
costs, or the networks your company provides for plans sold on the Federally- 
Facilitated Marketplace or slate exchanges. 

Response; Please see Cigna’s April 4, 2013 and May 1 3, 2013 productions to the 
Committee, in which it provided information related to the potential impact of PPACA on 
health insurance premiums.* 

* * ’I 

The Honorable Marsha Blackburn 

1. Submit to the Committee any analysis conducted by your organization or by 

another party' for your organization on premiums for plans sold in the Federally- 
Facilitated Marketplace, state marketplaces, or off the federal or state exchanges in 
2015. 

Response: Cigna is aware of numerous organizations that have conducted analyses and 
published informative materials on potential premium changes in 2015 for health 
insurance plans sold on the Exchanges. For example, the American Academy of 
Actuaries published a document that details the potential “drivers” of premium changes 


* Letter from Michael D, Bopp to The Honorable Fred Upton, The Honorable Tim Murphy, 
The Honorable Joseph R. Pitts, The Honorable Michael C. Burgess, The Honorable Joe 
Barton, and The Honorable Marsha Blackburn (May 29, 2014). 

* Letter from Michael D. Bopp to The Honorable Fred Upton (April 4, 20 1 3); Letter from 
Michael D. Bopp to The Honorable Fred Upton (May 13, 2013). 


10 



150 


next year.* Similarly, America’s Health Insurance Plans (“AHIP”), Avalere Health, and 
the Urban Institute recently published their analysis and findings related to potential 
premium changes.’ 

If you are looking for different or other information, please contact us and we will be 
glad to discuss your questions further. 

sjt 

The Honorable Michael C. Burgess 

1. Provide a list of individuals from your organization that have met with White House 
officials, including but not limited to the President, in 2014 to discuss the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act. Include the date of the meeting, the location, 
and the individuals present at the meeting. Provide ail documentation, including c- 
mail, relating to these meetings. This would include, but is not limited to, 
correspondence setting up the meeting, materials prepared in preparation for the 
meeting, materials distributed or obtained at each meeting, and materials prepared 
afterwards summarizing or discussing the meeting. 

Response: I am aware of three meetings attended by Cigna personnel and White House 
officials in 2014 during which topics related to the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act were discussed. The first meeting, which concerned payment reform, occurred 
on January 14, 2014 in the White House complex. Cigna was represented by Dr. Alan 
Muney, Chief Medical Officer; Herbert Friteh, President of Cigna-llealthSpring (Cigna’s 
Medicare Advantage company); and Kristin Julason Damato, Vice President, Public 
Policy & Federal Affairs. Among the other attendees were Chris Dawe, Health Policy 
Advisor to the National Economic Council and Timothy Gronniger, Senior Adviser for 
Health Care Policy, White House Domestic Policy Council. 


^ American Academy of Actuaries, Drivers of 2015 Health Insurance Premium Changes (June 
20 1 4) (aval lable at http://www.actuarv.org/lile,s/20 1 5 Premium Driver s 
Updated 0604l4.pdf> . 

’ America’s Health insurance Plans, What You Need to Know About 2015 Premiums (June 25, 
2014) (available at littp:/.Avrvw.timeforaffordabilitv.com/201 SpremiumsA : Avalere Health, 
Exchange Plan Renewals: Many Customers Face Sizeable Premium Increases in 2015 
Unless They Switch Plans (June 26, 2014) (available at http://avalere-health- 
production.s3.amazonaws.coiii/uploads/pdfs/1403791423 20140625 silver market disrupt! 
on. pdf ): Avalere Health, Average Exchange Premiums Rise Modestly in 2015 and Variation 
Increases (June 18, 2014) (available at http://avalere-health-prodiiction.s3 .amazonaws.com 
/uploads/pdfs/1403119552 20140616 2014 Exchange R ate s FINAL. pdfi : Urban Instituie, 
Will Premiums Skyrocket in 2015? (May 2014) (available at http://www'.rwif.org/content/ 
dam/farm/reports/issue briefs,/20 1 4/rvvif4 134101 . 


II 



151 


The second meeting, which concerned expatriate health plans, occurred on April 25, 2014 
in the White House complex. Cigna was represented by David Cordani, President and 
CEO; Nicole Jones, General Counsel; Kristin Julason Damato, Vice President, Public 
Policy & Federal Affairs; and Neil Tanner, Chief Counsel. The meeting was also 
attended by Phil Schiliro, White House Advisor for Health Policy. 

The third meeting, which was organized by the Business Roundtable, occurred on July 
24, 2014 in the White House complex. Cigna was represented by Kristin Julason 
Damato, Vice President, Public Policy & Federal Affairs. Among the other attendees 
were Kristie Canegallo, White House Deputy Chief of Staff; Jeanne Lambrew', Deputy 
Assistant to the President for Health Policy; Tim Gronniger, Senior Advisor for Health 
Policy, White House Domestic Policy Council; Mark Iwry, Senior Advisor to the 
Secretary of the Treasury and Deputy Assistant Secretary, Treasury Department; and Dr. 
Meena Seshamani, Office of Health Reform, Department of Health and Human Services. 

Cigna is reviewing whether it has documents responsive to this request. 

* * * 

The Honorable Morgan Griffith 

1. Provide a list of the states in which you will provide coverage on the federal or state 
exchange in 2015 and the date on which you will submit your 2015 premium rate 
filings. List the individuals in the federal or state government to which you will be 
submitting this information. Provide copies of those submissions to the Committee 
as they occur. 

Response: The table below identifies the states in which Cigna has submitted 2015 
premium rates filings for exchange plans and the date on which those filings were made. 


State 

Date Submitted 

AZ 

5/1/2014 

CO 

6/6/2014 

FL 

6/16/2014 

GA 

6/13/2014 

MD 

S/I/2014 

MO 

6/20/2014 

TN 

6/W20I4 

TX 

6/24/2014 


12 




152 


Rate filing information is available on some state agency websites, including: 

• Arizona Department of Insurance (available at 
http://ww'v.azinsiirance.gov/RateReview/HFAlpage.htinl# ); 

• Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies, Division of Insurance (available at 
httns://www.dora.state.co.us/t>ls/real/external forms.serff link# ); 

• Florida Office of Insurance Regulation (available at 
https://apps8.f1dfs.coin/lFileExternalSearch I: and 

• Maryland Insurance Administration (available at 
http://\vww.healthrates.mdinsurance.state.md.iis/ ). 


13 



153 


A WAX-’AAN, CAUf'CRNiA 
RA>iK.m-'.i MtMsrr, 


ONE HUNDnCE) 'HlHOfEN FH CONGRESS 

Coupes'^ of tlie ilnitrt States 

i)oiisr of lerptrsfiitotiUts 

rr ' ’ ' t * ^ ‘ ^ vj ( ut\,!\ . i ' F 

A i 


June 27.2014 


Mr. J, Dairen Rodgers 

Senior Vice Presidenl and Chief Marketing ortlcer 
1 leahh Care Service Corporalion 
300 l-i. Randolph Street 
Chicago, n. 60rtQi 

Dear Mr, Rodgers; 

Thank you (or appearing before the Subcommittee on Oversight and Invesiigaiions Oil Wednesday, May 
7, 20 H, (o testify at the hearing entitled “PPACA Eniollmcnl and the Insurance Industrv'.’' 

Pursuant to the Rules of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the hearing record i-emains open lor 
ten business days to permit Members to submit additional questions for the record, which arc attached. The 
format ofyoiir responses to tlrcse questions should be as follows: ( i ) the name ofthe Vlembcr whose question 
vou arc addressing, (2) the complete text of the question you arc addressing in bold, and (3) your answer to that 
question in plain text. 

Also attached arc Member rec|ucsts made during the hearing, The format of your responses to these 
requests should follow the same format as your responses to the additional questions for the record. 

To facilitate the priiiling of the hearing record, please respond to these questions and requests witii a 
transmittal letter by the close of business on Priday, July i !. 2014. Your responses should be mailed to Brittany 
Uaveas. Legislative Clerk. Committee on Energy and Commerce. 2125 Rayburn Douse Oftlcc Building, 
Washington. 12, C. 205 1 5 and e-mailed in Word formal to britUinv.havens@mail.h ouse.gov.. 

I'hank you again for your lime and effort preparing atid delivering testimony before the Subcommillee. 

Sincerely, 

'fim Murphy ^ 

C'hairman 

Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 
cc: Diana DcCicttc, Raiikiijg Yfembcr. Subcommittee on Oversight and investigations 


Attachments 



154 


BlueCross. BlueShield, 

niinois • Monlona • New Moxieo 
Oklahoma • Texas 


J. Darren Rodgers 

Chie! Markeitng Ofheer 

CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED 
September 5, 201 4 

Tlie Honorable Tim Murphy 
C hairman 

LJ.S. House oL Representatives 
Committee on Energy and Commerce 
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 
2125 RavbLirn House Office Building 
Washington, DC 205 15 

Dear Chairriian Murphy; 

On behalf of Health Care Service Corporation, a Mutual Legal Reserve Company 
(“HCSC"). I am submitting HCSC’s response to your letter dated June 27, 2014 (••Letter") 
regarding additional questions submitted for the record by Members further to the May 7, 2014 
hearing entitled “PPACA Enrollment and the insurance Industry”, 

Background Information . I ICSC is a non-profit, member-owned organization. The 
individuals and employers who are served by HCSC are the same people who sustain the 
company. We remain committed to the customer-owned non-pubiicly traded structure. 

HCSC is headquartered in Chicago, Illinois with a workforce of nearly 20,000 employees 
in more than 73 offices. HCSC, a.s an independent licensee of the Blue Cross Blue Shield 
Association, currently provides Blue Cross Blue Shield coverage to nearly 1 4 million members 
through its divisions in lllinoi.s ("BCBSIL”), Montana (“BCBSMT”), New Mexico 
f-BCBSNM"), Oklahoma (“BCBSOK.”) and Texas (“BCBSTX"). 

About this Submis.sron . HCSC is voluntarily complying with the Committee’s request as 
set forth below. This response was prepared to the best of our abilities in order to comply with 
the Committee’s requests within the Committee’s timeframe. Given that timefraitie, and the 
extensive scope ofllCSC’s multistate business, HCSC could not conduct a comprehensive 
search of all information that could be potentially responsive, but instead focused on obtaining 
relevant information in the possession of those employees most likely to have information 
pertaining to the subject matter of this inquiry. We have made good faith interpretations 
regarding the scope of the requests, and we have spceified them in our response. 

Many of the questions contained in the Members’ inquiries go beyond my knowledge and 
area of expertise. Accordingly. I have relied on staff in various parts of our company to supply 
data and informatioii that responds to many of the inquiries. 

ConBdentialitv . HCSC respectfully requests that all responsive information attributable 
to HCSC be treated as conlldeiitial. To the extent the Committee intends to publicly disclose any 
responsive information, HCSC further respectfully requests that the Committee do so in a 

300 Easi Randolph Stieei » Oiicago, Illinois 60601 ® 312-653 1505 '> OarroivRoagBfsehcsc.neb 


OtviSsons Ifojitb Carp Scrylou Cci:itOfju-<*t\ a Mutual l.eurf Btjsorvu Cott^anv, #u Inrlcccndunt Ucunseu ol tbo Bfnt* C'oss »*nd Biu 


ue Sb‘f«!<>Assoc.oi 



155 


The l lonorable Tiiu Murphy 
Chairman, U.S. House of Representauves 
Committee on Energy and Commerce 
I’age 2 

aggregate form. To the extent possible, we further request that the Commillee notify our 
company In advance of arty such disclosure so that appropriate corruiiunications and business 
measures may be put in place to protect our business. 

Rcsnoiisive Infurmatiuii 

.■Mtachment 1 - Additional Questions for the Record 
The Honorable Michael C. Burgess 

I . H'h He some of the basic problems with the front-emi components that indmduahface 

on HealthCare.gov have been addressed, numerous news sources continue to report 
that problems still plague the back-end systems that affect insurers. 

a. Have any significant improvements been made to these components? 

From our experience, improvements are being gradually made and work is ongoing to address 
remaining problems that atTect insurers. The sequencing of some of the improvements, although 
they may be "significant” in nature, may not have always coordinated with the tinting of insurer 
needs. 


b. How will these continued problems affect plan participation and premiums for 

201S? 

We do not know and vve cannot speculate at this time as m if or how is.sues with the back-end 
systems will affect plan participation and premiums for 2015. 

2. 834 transmissions provide insurers with enrollment information for individuals from 
HeaithCare.gov. It has been repeatedly reported that there are numerous errors in these 
transmissions with fuiiure rates of over 30%. 

a. Has this been your experience? 

h. What is your estimation of the failure rate? 

c. Hm the failure rate improved over time and by how much? 

We have experienced a namber of difficulties in 834 transmissions, particularly due to CiC 
(Change in Circiimstance) transactions. These difficulties have increased over time. While we 
are not sure what is specifically meant by '‘errors” or “fiiilure rate” in your question, w'c believe 
the 30% figure above to be reasonably reflective of our experience on overall issues we have 
generally experienced to date with 834 transmissions. 

d What problems has this caused for your companieSf your enrollees, and contracted 
providers? 

We have experienced delays in enrolling members and delays in pmcessing maintenance 
transactions (CiCs). We have significantly increased the number of employees needed to 



156 


The Honorable Tim Murphy 
Chairman, U.S. House of Represematives 
Committee on Emergy and Commerce 
Page 3 


manually process CiC transactions and to Ueid more extensive calls than previously anticipated 
from our members. 

3. Due to problems with the 834 iraftsmisshns^ there have been reports and witness testimony 
about a large number of duplicate enroUments. 

a. Do you have an estimation of the number of duplicate enrollments in your systems? 

We have in place matching programs to prevent enrolling duplicates in our systems. However, 
wc are still receiving duplicate enrollments from the Marketplace. Our estimate of the number of 
duplicate enroilmenls is approximately 5% at this time. 

b. Do you think the Administration has included duplicate enroUments in their 
enrollment totals? 

We do not have any infonnation on which wc can respond to this question as wc do not know 
what is included in the Administration’s figures. 

4. The Obama Administration issued a final regulation in 2012 saying that enroUees wouid 
enter a 90-day grace period for non-payment of premiums before their coverage is 
terminated. The final rule stipulates that insurers only have to pay valid claims for the 
frst 30 days of the 90~day grace period 

a. If enroUees do not continue to pay their premiums and they enter a grace period, do 
you plan to pay providers for claims during the entirety of the grace period? 

During the grace period, we pay all appropriate claims rendered to the mefiilier during the first 
month of the grace period and we may pend certain claims for services rendered in the second 
and third month of the grace period, We also must notify HHS of such non-payment. 

h. If you do not pay the claims, who will make providers whole? 

'i'he providers are notified of delinquent accounts at the time they make an eligibility and 
benefits inquiry and arc nolifcd that claims may not be paid as a result. 

c. Do you have a reconciliation process with providers for recouping payments made 
for claims incurred during a grace period? 

Ves. 

d Do you have any data on the number of enroUees who fail to pay their premiums 
after the frst month? If so, please provide this data. 


As of August 1, 2014, we had approximately 68,500 policies in the three-month grace period. 



157 


'I’hc Honorable Tim Mui-phy 
Chairman, U.S. House of Representatives 
Commiuee on Energy and Commerce 
Page 4 

J. One oj the major concerns raised about the implementation of the law is that individuals 
may stop paying their premiums at some point, enter a 90-day grace period and eventually 
their coverage wiU be canceled due to nonpayment 

a. Do you know how many enroltees are currently covered but behind on paying their 
premiums? 

As of August i, 2014, we had approximately 68,500 policies in the three-month grace period. 

'Fhe three-monih grace period is only applicable to those receiving a premium tax credit. 

b. The law says that you must provide this information to HHS. Are you doing so? 

Yes. Wc send Termination and Cancellation notice.^ to CMS for non-payment. 

c What is the process for communicating with providers when enrollees enter a grace 
period? 

We have several processes available to our providers ibr making inquiries including interactive 
voice response (1 VR) and online systems. 

(5. Because of the significant back-end issues with HealthCare.gov, there is a strong 
possibility for inaccurate premium subsidies being paid to insurers from the federal 
government The Washington Post recently reported that the federal government is likely 
providing inaccurate premium subsidies to more than one million new enrollees. 

a Is there a reconciliation process in place to either recoup payments that were too 
low or return payments that were too high? 

Yes. Adjustments are made to subsidies when an error is discovered and wc receive an updated 
record from HHS and update internally. 

b. Please describe the process if there is a process in place. 

Wc file restated numbers each month reflecting any new values for January 2014 through the 
current reporting period, Any adjustments w\\\ retroactively be included in the resubmission for 
the applicable months. We receive (or return) the difference between what was received in prior 
months and the current restatement. 

c. If (here is a process, have any miscalculated payments been reconciled? 

We have reported adjustments monthly in the form of resubmitted data at the Qualilled \ leaith 
Plan level. 

d If miscalculated payments have been reconciled, how many have been processed? 
Wc do not track adjusimerits at the member level. 



158 


The I [onorable Tim Murphy 
Chairman, U.S, House of Representatives 
Committee on Energy and Commerce 
Page 5 


e. Please provide an estimation for the administrative cost of these miscalculations if 
possible. 

We do not track administrative costs related to this issue. 

/ How might the miscalculation of payments affect plans for the next year in terms of 
participation or premiums? 

Wc do not track potential impact on participation or premiums. 

7. if a provider calls your company for information on the heahh care law, what resources or 
information is your company able to provide? 

We have a wide variety of resources and informational materials on the health care law including 
online resources, educational materials, and knowledgeable cu.s'tomcr service representatives. 

S. How much has your company been paid to date in premium tax credits? 

Discu.s.sion.s with Committee staff regarding our response to this inquiry arc ongoing at this lime. 
Additionally, we would be happy to meet with Representative Burgess or his staff in person to 
discuss this question. 

9. How many plans has your company sold off-e.xcitange in 2014? Provide litis information 
for each state in which you sell. 

Re.sponsive information was previously provided to the Committee staff on .luly 1, 2014, with a 
request for confidential treatment. We respectfully reiterate our request for confidential 
treatment of this information, and ask that it not be disclosed publicly. 

10. If people have not paid the first month ’s premium for their policy, then they are not 
actually covered even if they believe they are enrolled. There have been reports of Texas 
clinics being put on hold for hours by Bluet'rnss BiueShieid of Texas attempting to verify 
enrollment before they can actually treat patients with Exchange coverage. 

a. Have the numerous issues with HealthCare.gov contributed to this backlog? 

Yes, they have. Our experience has shown that calls from our members are heavier in volume 
and inore complicated in nature- as members arc trying to understand the enrollment process and 
their options. It takes our highly trained representatives longer proce.ssing time to fully respond 
to each ofour members' inquiries. We have significantly increased our staffing to accommodate 
all of our members as promptly as possible and regret any delay.s they may have experienced. 

h. What is HCSC doing to ease this burden on providers? 

W'e have provided multiple avenues for provider inquiries including Interactive Voice Response 
(IVR) and online processes. We have made .significant investments in cu.slomer service, 



159 


The Honorable 1'im Murjrhy 
Chairman, U.S. House of Representatives 
Committee on Energy and Commerce 
Page 6 

education and technology to address these issues including increased staffing and training 
protocols. 

The Hanorabie Pete Olson 

/ In your experience, has CMS built the operation function to pay health plans 

participating in the Federally Facilitated Marketplace? Specifically are the Advanced 
Premium Tax Credit and the Cost Sharing Reduction payment amounts currently 
working? 

In our view, the syslcins are working and we anticipate will be on a path of continued 
improvement as the Marketplace evolves. 

2. Areyou aware of how CMS accounts for the monies collected by the Federally 

Facilitated Marketplace user fee? If so, then in your experience how does the money 
generated by this fee used for the operation of the Federally Facilitated Marketplace? 

Wc do not know how CMS manages the money related to user fees. 

J. Last year the President apologized for the plans cancelled by the health care law and 
offered a delay of the enforcing of the requirement that led to the cancellations. This 
delay has since been extended. How many plans do you currently offer that do not 
meet the law’s requirements but you are continuing to offer as a result of this policy? 
Provide this information by the number of plans in each state and the total for your 
company nationwide 

For I ICSC, only lllinoi.s policies were impacted by this paiticular policy. We estimate around 
63,000 policies in Illinois. 

The Honorable Cory Gardnci- 


1. How many plans offered hy your company did you cancel or discontinue in 2013 

because of the health care law? Provide this information by the number of plans in 
each state and the total for your company nationwide 

Discussicm.s wdth Committee .siafT regarding mir response to this inquiry as well as ihc following 
two inquiries are ongoing at this lime. 

2 . How many plans did your company offer early renewal to in 2013 so they could 
continue in 2014 that would have otherwise been cancelled, ended, or otherwise 
modified by the health care law? Provide this information by the number of plans in 
each state and the total for your company nationwide. 


3. Last year the President apologized for the plans canceled by the health care law and 
offered a delay of the enforcing of the requirements that ted to the cancellations. This 



160 


The 1 ionorabie Tim Murphy 
Chairman, U.S. House of Representatives 
Committee on Energy and Commerce 
Page 7 


delay has since been extended. How many plans do you currently offer that do not 
meet the taw 's requirements but you are continuing to offer as a result of this policy? 
Provide this Information by the number of plans in each stare and the total for your 
company nationwide. 

The Honorable Morgan Griffith 

I One of the most troubling side-effects of Ohamacare is happening across the country to 
patients who have found that their physicians - particularly specialists - are not part of 
their new health plan networks. During the open enrollment period for PPA CA, 
individuals had limited information about whether their doctors were covered in a 
particular plan. Once enrolled, far loo many of my constituents are faced with a 
difficult choice - give up th eir .specialist or pay the high cost sharing required for out- 
of-network physicians. 

a. What can I tell my constituents to do in the next open enrollment period to determine 
which specialists are covered in their Exchange plans? 

h. What kind of information about provider networks will be avaiiahie to help them choose 
a plan ? 

c. What is your company doing to improve transparency about provider networks next 
year to make it easier for patients to keep access to their existing specialists? 


When custmners choose a new health insunmee plan through the exchange, they arc given 
information about the doctors and hospitals included in each plan offered. Wc make the network 
infomiation accessible to purchasing members before they select our products so that they can 
make the choice that is right for them, HCSC’s goal i.s to expand acce.ss to quality, cost-effective 
health care to as many people as possible in every pan of the stales in which w'e operate. We 
offer a variety of network configurations to provide our members the greatest choice while 
providing quality network choices and great service at different price points to meet their 
individual needs. We also have customer service representatives available to assist members 
should they have questions about a panicuiar physician or hospital’s panicipation in a network. 



161 


The Monorabic Tim Murphy 
Chairman, U.S. House of Representatives 
Committee on Energy and Commerce 
Page 8 


Attachment 2 - Member Requests for the Record 


The Honorable Tim Murnhv 

1 . FrvvUle information on the number of plans your organization has sold in the 
Federally-Facilitated Marketplace. 

Responsive information was previously provided to the Commiltec staff on April 1 8, 2014, with 
a request for confidential treatment. We respectfully reiterate our request for contldeniia! 
treatment of this information, and ask that it not be disclosed publicly. 

2. Frovide any analysis conducted by your organization in 2012, 2013 or 2014 on the 
impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care. Act on the premiums paid by 
consumers. Provide any other analysis conducted on deductibles, out of pocket costs, 
or the networks your company provides for plans sold on the Federally-Facilitated 
Marketplace or state exchanges. 

The scope of this request involves proprietary and compelilively sensitive information, as I 
explained at the May 7 hearing. Discussions with Committee staff regarding our concerns are 
ongoing at this time. 

Tlie Huiiorabic IMarslia Blackburn 


I . Submit to the Committee any analysts conducted by your organization or by another 
party for your orgaftizafion on premiums for plans sold in the Federally-Facilitated 
Marketplace, state marketplaces, or off the federal or state exchanges in 2015. 

‘fhe scope of this request involves proprietary and competitively sensitive information, as I 
explained at the May 7 hearing. Discussions with Committee staff regarding our concerns are 
ongoing at this lime. 

The Honorabie Michael C. Burgess 

1 , Provide a list of individuals from your organization that have met with White House 
officials, including but not limited to the President, in 2014 to discuss the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act. Include the date of the meeting, the location, and 
the individuals present at the meeting. Provide all docutneniatiotu including email, 
relating to these meetings. This would include, hut is not limited to, correspondence 
setting up the meeting, materials prepared in preparation for the meeting, materials 
distributed or obtained at each meeting, and materials prepared ctfterwards 
summarizing or discussing the meeting. 

On April 1 7, 2014, our CEO Pat Hemingway-Hail attended a meeting at the While House with 
the President. As 1 explained at the May 7 hearing, I was not in attendance at that meeting. We 



162 


'Fhe Honorable Tim Murphy 
Chairman, U.S. House of Representatives 
Committee on Energy and Commerce 
Page 9 


would, however, be happy to meet with Representative Burgess or his staff in person to discuss 
Id (he extent w'c ean any particular issues he may have related to this topic. 

The Honorable Morgan Griffith 

1 . Proviile a list of the states in which yon will provide coverage on the federal or state 
exchange in 2015 and the date on which you will submit your 2015 premium rate 
Jifings. List the individuals in the federal or state government to which you will he 
submitting this information. Provide copies of those submissions to the Committee as 
they occur. 

Wc will offer coverage on the federal or state exchange in 201 5 in Illinois, Montana, New 
Mexico, Oklahoma and I'cxas. As the rate filings are highly proprietary and confidential, and 
because they are not yet finalized and approved, HC.SC will produce the finalized filings a,s they 
are approved and become public. 


If you have any questions about this response, please contact HCSC's counsel at 
McDermott Will & Emery, Steve Ryan and David Ransom, at 202-756-8333. 


Sincerely, 

■>' , k 

J- Darren Rodgers 

Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer 

On behalf of Health Care Service Corporation, a Mutual Legal Reserve Company 


cc (w/enciosurc): The Honorable Fred Upton, Chairman 

The Honorable Henry A. Waxman, Ranking Member 

The Honorable Diana DeGette, Ranking Member, subcommittee on 

Oversight and Investigations 



163 


Coiiai'fss rlit llifirrt i>fatfs 

it" n.'-l ■> .ND COMMERCE 

jOC SuiLiCiCiC; 

,■). 15-6115 

June 27. 20 1 4 



Mr. Dennis Mathcis 

President of Central Region and Cxcitangc Strategy 
WcHPoifil. Inc. 

I20 Monument Circle 
Indianapoiis. IN 46204 

Dear Mr. Maiheis; 

I'inink you for appearing before the Subcommittee on Oversight and Ittvestigaiioiis on 
Wednesday. May 7. 2014. to icsf ily at the hearing entitled ‘TPACA l-nrolinicnt and the Insurance 
Industrv 


Pursuant to the Rules of ilic Committee on Energy and Commerce, the hearing record remains 
open for ten business days to permit Members to submit additional questions for the record, winch are 
attached. The format of your responses to these que.stions should be as follows; (1) the name of the 
Member whose question you arc addre.ssing, (2) the complete le.xt of the question you arc addressing in 
bold, and (1) your answer to that question in plain te.xt. 

Al.so attached are Meanber requests made during the hearing. The format of your responses to 
these retjuests should follow the same format as }'oitr responses to the additional questions for the record. 

7'o facilitate the priming of the hearing record, please respond to fhe.se questions and requests 
with u ininsmiilal letter by the close of business on Friday, July 1 1 , 2014. Your responses should be 
mailed to Firittuny Havens, Legislative Clerk. Committee on Energy atid Commerce. 21 25 Rayburn 
Ihiiisc Onicc ITiilding. W,asliiiiglan, D.C. 20515 and e-mailed in Word format to 
britlaiiv.iiaven.s r'd'tna i i. hoiisc.gov . 


Tliank you again for your time and effort preparing and delivering testimony before tlic 
Subcommittee. 


Sincerely. 



Chairman 

Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 
ce: Diana DcGctle, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Oversight and investigations 


Altncinncnts 



Hogan 

Lovells 


August 29, 2014 
BY E-MAIL AND D.S. MAIL 


[logaii Loveits 1!S Li,!’ 
Columbia Square 
555 Tluueenth Street, NW 
Washiiigioti, DC 20004 
T -M 202 657 5600 
f • I 202 637 S9!0 
WWW. hogaitiovcils.com 


The Honorable Tim Murphy 
Chairman 

Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 
LI.S. House of Representatives 
2125 Rayburn House Office Building 
Washington, D.C. 20515 

RE: Questions for the Record dated June 27, 2014 

Dear Chairman Upton: 

This letter comprises the second response of WellPoint, Inc. ("WellPoint” or the 
“Company”) to the June 27, 2014 letter containing questions for the record regarding the 
testimony of Dennis Matheis before the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations on May 
7, 2014 at the hearing titled “PPACA Enrollment and the Insurance Industry,” 

The Company has provided the enclosed responses, with information as of the date of the 
hearing unless otherwise noted, to the Member requests relating to the Committee’s hearing and 
investigation regarding the Federally-Facilitated Marketplace (FF.M). We will continue to confer 
with Committee staff regarding the remaining requests. 

While the Company is responding to your inquiry voluntarily and is providing the 
enclosed information, the submission of this information does not waive, nor is it intended to 
waive, any rights, privileges, or immunilies of WellPoint with respect to this matter, including 
any applicable attorney-client, work product, or other privilege or immunity. WellPoint 
expressly reserves all applicable privileges and immunities to which it is entitled under 
applicable law. 



165 


cc: 


August 29, 2014 


If you have any questions regarding this letter, please contact me at (202) 637-5493. 


Sincerely, 



E. Desmond Hogan 
Counsel for WellPoint, Inc. 

Partner 

desmond.hogan@hoganloveUs.com 
D 202-637-5493 


The Honorable Diana DeGette 

Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation 



166 


Questions for the Record tor Dennis Matheis for WellPoint 

Attachment I - Additkinal Ouesiions for the Record 


The Honorable Michael C. Burgess 


1. While some of the basic problems with the front-end components that individuals 
face on HealthCare.gov have been addressed, numerous news sources continue to 
report that problems still plague the back-end systems that affect insurers. 

a. Have any significant improvements been made to these components? 

While CMS is working to improve a number of i.ssues that are impacting the functionality 
ofHealthcare.gov, back end functionality is still being addressed. Two of the most 
pressing functionality issues are the 834 and 820 processes. 

834 Enrollment Data Reconciliation 

A permanent, automated 834 maintenance solution should be implemented to prevent 
divergence between issuer and FFM enrollment data. Doing so will improve data accuracy 
and allow plans to reallocate resources from continued manual processes to other critical 
functions. 

820 APTC.tPremium Reconciliation 

CMS has yet to implement an automated 820 transaction system that issuers can use to 
reconcile the Advanced Premium Tax Credits (APTC) and Cost Sharing Reduction (CSR) 
subsidies. Until CMS implements an accurate 820 system, issuers and the FFM will 
continue to use a manual monthly Interim Payment Process. Any manual process is subject 
to higher error rates and will result in difficulties reconciling APTC and CSR payments at a 
subscriber/member level. 

b. How will these continued problems affect plan participation and premiums for 
2015? 

In preparing 2015 premium rates, WellPoint .subsidiaries have not taken into account the 
administrative co.sts incurred in working through issues arising from back-end systems 
whose functionality continues to be addressed. At some point if the challenges posed by 
the back-end systems are not addressed, WellPoint subsidiaries will need to evaluate 
whether increased administrative expenses will affect premium rates, The Company has 
reached no conclusion on what impact, if any, the back-end issues will have on plan 
participation in 2015. 

2. 834 transmissions provide insurers with enrollment information for individuals from 
HealthCare.gov . It has been repeatedly reported that there are numerous errors in 
these transmissions with failure rates of over 30%. 


1 



167 


a. Has this been your experience? 

b. What is your estimation of the failure rate? 

c. Has the failure rate improved over time and by how much? 

d. What problems has this caused for your companies, your enrollees, and 
contracted providers? 

Response to 2(a)-(d): 

WellPoint is unable to determine a failure or error rate for the 834 transmissions received 
from the Exchange. CMS - and not WellPoint ~ would have complete information on errors 
involving 834 transmissions, WellPoint can confirm, however, that it has experienced 
significant problems with the 834 transmission process. These errors in the 834 transmission 
process have created challenges for WellPoint staff and enrollees which WellPoint is 
working with CMS to overcome. For example, some cu.stomer abrasion issues have 
occurred when the customer believes they have submitted an application through the 
Exchange, but WellPoint has not received or is unable to process the application. In 
addition, delays in coverage for applicants can result when WellPoint must go back to the 
Exchange to request a corrected application file or where desired changes to a customer's 
plan were delayed due to 834 functionality issues. These and other issues with 
implementing the designed 834 functionality have resulted in increased manual work for 
WellPoint. 

3. Due to problems with the 834 transmissions, there have been reports and witness 
testimony about a large number of duplicate enrollments. 

a. Do you have an e.stimation of the number of duplicate enrollments in your 
system? 

For the states in which WellPoint subsidiaries participate on the FFM (Georgia, Indiana, 
Maine, Missouri, New Hampshire, Ohio, Virginia, and Wisconsin), the FFM at times sent 
additional records as New Enrollments for the same applicants. Through the date of the 
hearing, these additional enrollments accounted for approximately 1 1% on average of the 
total submissions and terminations, not including voided enrollments requested by the 
Exchange. 

b. Do you think the Administration has included duplicate enrollments in their 
enrollment totals? 

WellPoint is not privy to the process and the data the Administration uses to calculate 
enrollment totals. WellPoint has no information on whether the Administration has or has 
not included duplicate enrollments in the enrollment totals it has reported. WellPoint has not 
included the additional records in its net enrollment numbers. 

2 



168 


4. The Obama Administration issued a final regulation in 2012 saying that enrollees 

would enter a 90-day grace period for non-payment of premiums before their coverage 
is terminated. The final rule stipulates that insurers only have to pay valid claims for 
the first 30 days of the 90-day grace period, 

a. If enrollees do not continue to pay their premiums and they enter a grace 
period, do you plan to pay providers for claims during the entirety of the grace 
period? 

In cases where the member has not paid their premium after the first month for on-exchange 
subsidy eligible products, the Company takes the following steps, as defined by regulations 
implementing the legislation: 

• Process claims for services received during the first month. See 45 C.F.R. 

§ 156.270(d)(1) (“During the grace period, the QHP issuer must: Pay all 
appropriate claims for services rendered to the enrollce during the first month of 
the grace period’’), 

• Pend claims for services received during the second and third months of the grace 
period, until the full premium is received. Providers will receive a notification on 
their remittance indicating that the claim cannot be paid until the premium is 
received, and informing providers of the possibility of denied claims if the 
premium is not received by the end of the three month grace period. See 45 
C.F.R. §1 56.270(d)(1) (“During the grace period, the QHP issuer . . . may pend 
claims for services rendered to the enrollee in the second and third months of the 
grace period’’); 45 C.F.R. § 1 56.270(d)(3) (“Notify providers of the po.ssibility for 
denied claims when an enrollee is in the second and third months of the grace 
period”). 

• After the third month, if the member’s premium is not received, the member’s 
health plan will be terminated as provided in 45 C.F.R. § 1 56.270(g), and the 
claims for services received during the second and third month will be denied. 
The member will be responsible for payment of services received during this time 
(up to charges). See 45 C.F.R. § 155.430 (d)(4) (“In the case of a termination 
[after the expiration of the 3-month grace period], the last day of coverage will be 
the last day of the first month of the 3-month grace period.’’). 

b. If you do not pay the claims, who will make providers whole? 

The terms and conditions of the contract between WellPoint subsidiaries and providers apply 
to care rendered to “Covered Persons.” When a policy or plan is terminated due to non- 
payment, the individual is no longer a Covered Person and the provider may bill the 
individual directly for services rendered. 

c. Do you have a reconciliation proce.ss with providers for recouping payments 
made for claims incurred during a grace period? 



169 


The Company does not have a recoupment process for claims incurred during the second and 
third months of the grace period for on-exchange subsidy eligible products because, as 
described above in response to question 4(a), provider claims for services during the second 
and third month of the grade period arc not paid unless the niember pays their premiums for 
those months. As required by 45 C.F.R. §156.270(d)(l), the Company processes claims 
incurred during the first month of the grace period regardless of whether the subscriber 
ultimately pays the premium for the first month of the grace period. 

d. Do you have any data on the number of enrollee.s who fail to pay their premiums 
after the first month? If so, please provide this data. 

WellPoint is unable to readily recreate historical data regarding the number of plans in the 
second or third month of the grace period as of the date of the Committee’s hearing. 

5. One of the major concerns raised about the implementation of the law is that 

individuals may stop paying their premiums at some point, enter a 90-day grace period 
and eventually their coverage will be canceled due to nonpayment. 

a. Do you know how many enrollces are currently covered but behind on paying 
their premiums? 

WellPoint is unable to readily recreate historical data regarding the number of plans in the 
second or third month of the grace period as of the date of the Committee’s hearing. 

b. The law' says that you must provide thus information to HHS. Arc you doing so? 

HHS has asked that this information be shared through the 834 reconciliation process and the 
Company will do so when that process is in place. 

c. What is the process for communicating with providers when enrollees enter a 
grace period? 

WellPoint subsidiaries value their relationships with contracted providers and strive to keep 
providers fully informed. Information regarding the grace period is available to providers 
through various channels. For example, state-specific information about health insurance 
exchanges and the grace period is available on the Provider Portal for each state in which 
WellPoint subsidiaries participate in the FFM: http://www.aiithem .co ni/ho ine-providers.html 
(The user must choose a state before going to that state’s provider homepage and select 
"Health Insurance Exchange information". ) 

in particular, before providing a service to a subscriber of a WellPoint .subsidiary, providers 
can electronically check whether the subscriber is in a grace period through the online 
eligibility and benefits process on the Provider Portal. The Company understands that many 
providers do check the patient’s eligibility prior to the patient’s visit as part of the provider’s 
established offee procedures. If a provider submits a claim for a subscriber in the grace 
period, the provider will receive a notification on their remittance indicating that the claim 

4 



170 


cannot be paid until the premium is received, and informing providers of the possibility of 
denied claims if the premium is not received by the end of the three month grace period. See 
45 C.F.R. § 1 56.270(d)(1) (“During the grace period, the QHP issuer . . . may pend claims for 
services rendered to the enrollee in the second and third months of the grace period”); 45 
C.F.R. § 156.270(d)(3) (“Notify providers of the possibility for denied claims when an 
enrollee is in the second and third months of the grace period”). 

6. Because of the significant back-end issues with HcalthCarc.gov . there is a strong 
possibility for inaccurate premium subsidies being paid to insurers from the federal 
government. The Washington Post recently reported that the federal government is 
likely providing inaccurate premium subsidies to more than one million new enrollees. 

a. Is there a reconciliation process in place to either recoup payments that were too 
low or return payments that were too high? 

b. Please describe the process if there is a process in place. 

c. If there is a process, have any miscalculated payments been reconciled? 

d. If miscalculated payments have been reconciled, how many have been 
processed? 

Response to 6(a)-(d): 

The subsidy process begins when a consumer provides his or her income, family size, and 
additional demographic information during the application process through the Exchange, 
Based on the infomiation provided by the consumer, the Exchange calculates the 
applicant’s premiurn and any applicable APTC or CSR. The Exchange then provides the 
applicant’s premium rate, .APTC, and CSR to the Company in the 834 membership 
records. For CSR subsidized products, a per member per month (“pmpm”) rate was filed 
and approved for each product. The Company works with the Exchange to ensure that the 
CSR amount is accurate for any given product, as the CSR subsidy rates applicable to a 
particular product contained in the 834 membership records are incorrect in some cases. 
The Company uses the APTC amount provided by the Exchange and any applicable CSR 
amount to reduce the premium amount to be collected from the subscriber. For states in 
which the Company participates in the FFM, the Company then submits the AP'i'C 
information it received from the Exchange and the applicable CSR amount to CMS on a 
monthly basis and T reasury sends those funds to the Company through an Interim Payment 
Process (“IPP”). To date, the Company has not taken steps to attempt to reconcile the 
interim payments received from Treasury as CMS has described the payments as interim in 
nature and not final payments that would permit the Company to close its open receivables. 

Because the Company does not possess information on the consumer’s income level or 
other demographic circumstances, the Company is unable to validate w'hether the APTC 
calculations it receives from the Exchange are accurate for any particular member. The 


5 



171 


Company relies solely on the information received from CMS for all eligibility and 
subsidy related information. The Company does not communicate directly with our 
customers regarding income levels or other demographic circumstances. If any change 
occurs to a consumer’s income or demographic information, it is the responsibility of the 
consumer to notify the Exchange, and for the Exchange to send the Company an updated 
834 file with revised premium payment calculations. The Company understands that the 
IRS may recoup improper APTC or CSR payments from the consumer if a consumer 
submitted inaccurate income information to the Exchange. 

e. Please provide an estimation for the administrative cost of these miscalculations 
if possible. 

WellPoint has not calculated the total administrative costs attributable to updated 834 files 
received from Exchanges or the Interim Payment Process with CMS. 

f. How might the miscalculation of payments affect plans for next year in terms of 
participation or premiums? 

In preparing 2015 premium rates, WellPoint subsidiaries have not taken into account the 
administrative costs attributable to issues regarding membership reconciliation or premium 
subsidies. At some point if the challenges posed by these processes are not addressed, 
WellPoint subsidiaries will need to evaluate whether increased administrative expenses will 
affect premium rates. The Company has reached no conclusion on what impact, if any, these 
issues will have on plan participation in 2015. 

7. If a provider calls your company for information on the health care law, what 
rc.sourccs or information is your company able to provide? 

WellPoint subsidiaries value the participation of providers in their networks and strive to 
keep providers fully informed about the ACA. If a provider contacts a WellPoint subsidiary 
with questions regarding the ACA, the Company can provide information regarding what the 
law allows related to a member’s benefits and can answer general questions regarding the 
ACA. The Company can also direct the provider to external sources for additional 
information, such as a government website regarding the plan in which the member enrolled 
or to professional forums. 

In addition, as described in the response to 5(c), providers can access the Company’s 
provider portal for their state. The provider portal contains a wealth of communications and 
updates regarding state-specific information on health care reform. Providers may also 
access member-specific benefit and premium grace period information through the provider 
portal using the member’s identification number. Providers may enroll in WellPoint’s 
Network eUPDATE w'hich notifies recipients of new updates regarding Exchanges and the 
ACA. Providers also receive a bi-monthly newsletter notifying them of relevant updates, 
changes, and information, including regarding the ACA. Newsletters are mailed to providers 
and stored on the provider portal for future reference. 


6 



The Honorable Pete Olson 


1. In your experience, has CMS built the operation function to pay health plans 
participating in the Federally Facilitated Marketplace? Specifically are the Advanced 
Premium Tax Credit and the Cost Sharing Reduction payment amounts currently 
working? 

CMS has implemented a basic, interim solution under which the Company is receiving 
payments for the Advanced Premium Tax Credit (APTC) and the Cost Sharing Reduction 
(CSR). WellPoint remains concerned about operational and functionality issues relating to 
the APTC and CSR. WellPoint is working with CMS through the interim solution and looks 
forward to a final, fully-functioning solution. 

2. Are you aware of how CMS accounts for the monies collected by the Federally 
Facilitated Marketplace user fee? If yes, then in your experience how does the money 
generated by this fee used for the operation of the Federally Facilitated Marketplace? 

WellPoint does not know how CMS accounts for the monies collected by the FFM user fee. 

3. Are there outstanding 834 transactions? If yes, has CMS offered any explanation as to 
why? And if they have explained, xvhat does CMS attribute the delay to? 

Currently, the Company cannot definitively determine whether any 834 transactions remain 
outstanding until CMS fully reconciles all enrollment information with the issuers. CMS has 
not provided a definitive date on the completion of any enrollment reconciliation efforts nor 
has CMS provided a timeline as to when they will be able to have a fully functional 834 
process with enrollment file maintenance capabilities. 

The Honorable Morgan Griffith 

1. One of the most troubling side-effects of Obamacare is happening across the country to 
patients who have found that their physicians — particularly specialists — are not part 
of their new health plan networks. During the open enrollment period for PPACA, 
individuals had limited information about whether their doctors were covered in a 
particular plan. Once enrolled, far too many of my constituents are faced with a 
difficult choice — give up their specialist or pay the high cost sharing required for out- 
of-network physicians. 

a. What can I tell my constituents to do in the next open enrollment period to 
determine which specialists are covered in their Exchange plan.s? 

b. What kind of information about provider networks will he available to help 
them choose a plan? 




173 


c. What is your company doing to improve transparency about provider networks 
next year to make it easier for patients to keep access to their existing 
specialists? 

Response to l(a)-(c). 

The Company is committed to providing information to individuals considering enrolling in 
a plan. The Company provides at least three ways for an individual to determine which 
specialists are covered in an Exchange plan. First, individuals can visit www.anthem.com to 
search the online provider directory using the “Find a Doctor” link to determine if a doctor, 
hospital or other health care provider is a participating provider in the network for the 
particular plan. Second, they can call the applicable member services toll-free number. A 
member services representative will assist them in determining which specialists are 
participating providers. In Virginia, that number is 1-855-748-1 810. Third, they can request 
a paper copy of a provider directory by calling the member services toll-free number or by 
sending a written request to the applicable plan. In Virginia, the request would go to 
Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, P.O, Box 27401, Richmond, Virginia, 23286-8708. 

The Company continually assesses cost, quality and access and makes adjustments to its 
provider networks as needed to meet and exceed customer expectations, while optimizing 
the value of our members' health care expenditures. When a provider exits the network, 
member services representatives are available to assist subscribers in locating a participating 
provider to suit their needs. 

Attachment 2 — Member Requests for (he Record 

During the hearing. Members asked you to provide additional information for the record, and 
you indicated that you would provide that information. For your convenience, de.scriptiom of 
the requested information are provided below. 

The Honorable Tim Murphy 


2. Provide any analysis conducted by your organization in 2012, 2013, or 2014 on the 
impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act on the premiums paid by 
consumers. Provide any other analysis conducted on deductibles, out of pocket costs, or 
the networks your company provides for plans sold on the Federally-Facilitated 
Marketplace or state exchanges. 

On April 1, 2013 and April 9, 2013, the Company provided confidential documents from 
2013 referring to the intersection of the ACA and premium rates to the Committee. Since 
that time, the Company has not conducted any analysis specifically addressing the impact of 
the Affordable Care Act on premiums paid by consumers, deductibles, out of pocket costs, 
or provider networks. 


8 



174 


The Honorable Marsha Blackburn 

1. Submit to the Committee any analysis conducted by your organization or by another 
party for your organization on premiums for plans sold in the Federally-Facilitated 
Marketplace, state marketplaces, or off the federal or state exchanges in 2015. 

WellPoint subsidiaries consider a variety of factors in setting rates. Some of those factors 
include our 75 years’ experience in the market, extensive market research among consumers, 
medical trend, the health insurance tax. our experience with provider networks, assumptions 
about the effects of regulatory or legislative change, and assumptions about enrollment 
demographics. The internal rate development process can take between 3 and 6 months. 
Then the Company begins the process of working with state and federal regulators to finalize 
and obtain approval of the rates. The various types of insurance offered by WellPoint 
subsidiaries are subject to a variety of state and federal regulations and oversight. The 
processes and timelines associated with the.se vary substantially, including the submission 
and filing approval dates and the notification windows for consumers. The Company will 
fully comply with all of the applicable state and federal regulations, 

Elizabeth Hall, WeliPoint’s Vice President of Federal Affairs, participated in a June 27, 2014 
panel for the Alliance for Health Reform where she discussed WeliPoint’s rate setting 
process. A video of the panel discussion is available at http://ww'w.e- 
span.ora/video/?320195-l/health-insurance-Dremiums . Additionally, the McKinsey Center 
for U.S. Health System Reform prepared an analysis of 201 5 Individual Exchange Filings as 
of July 3, 2014, available at h UD://liealthcare.mckinsev . coin/20l 5-individual-exchange- 
filines-0 . 

The Honorable Morgan Griffith 

1. Provide a list of the states in which you will provide coverage on the federal or state 
exchange in 2015 and the date on which you will submit your 2015 premium rate 
filings. List the individuals in the federal or state government to which you will be 
submitting this information. Provide copies of those submissions to the Committee as 
they occur. 

The Company has filed rates in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, 
Kentucky, Maine, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Virginia, and Wisconsin with 
the intent to participate on the FFM or SBM in 2015. In addition, though Missouri does not 
require issuers to file rates, the Company intends to participate on the Missouri exchange. 
However, until the Company signs Qualified Health Plan contracts for 2015, the Company 
maintains discretion to make a final determination on W'hether to participate in the exchange. 

The Company’s rate filings for exchange products arc publicly available at the following 
links: 


9 



175 


• Colorado: https://vvww.dora.slate.co.us/pls/rea l/ external forins.serff link^ (click on 
■‘Click here to Search Health Insurance Filings” and search for Rocky Mountain 
Hospital & Medical Service, Inc. or HMO Colorado Inc.) 

• Connecticut: 

http://vvww.cataloa,state.ct.us/cid/portalApps/RateFilingCompanvDetails.aspx?sF=2 
0 1 4Q3469&SN-602 1 7&sC=Y&sT=H 

• Indiana: http:/, ''vvvvvv.in.gov/idoi/2S69.htiTi (Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.) 

• Kentucky: httD:..Vinsurancc. kv.gov/RaleFil/def ault.aspx (search for Anthem Health 
Plans of Kentucky) 

• Maine: http://vvvvw.maine.g 0 v/pfr/ins 11 rance/PPACA/HFAI.hlm# (click on “Click 
Here to Search Public Filings’" and search for Tracking Number AWLP-129567303) 

• Nevada: http://doi.nv.gov./uploadedFiles / doirtvgov/ public- 
documcnts/Health Rate Revievv/20 1 5-Rate-Filings.pdf 

• New York: httns://mvportal.dfs.nv.gov/vveb/prior-approval.^empirehc/empire- 
healthchoice-hmo-inc (Empire Health Choice Assurance, Inc., and Empire 
HealthChoice HMO, Inc.) 

• Ohio: http:/ /i nsiirance.ohio.gov./Coinpanv/Pages/RecordsRequest.aspx (click on the 
link to access the HFAI. Then search for Community Insurance Company) 

• Virginia: littps://vv\vw. see. virginia.gov/boi/SERFFinQuirv/LHAccessPage.aspx 
(Click on Option #2 and search for HealthKeepers, Inc.) 

The Company’s rate filings for exchange products in California, Georgia, New Hampshire, 
and Wisconsin are not yet publicly available. 


10 


o 



