AUTHENTICATED 
US. GOVERNMENT 
INFORMATION ^ 


TERMINATIONS OF HEALTH POLICIES BY INSUR- 
ANCE COMPANIES: STATE PERSPECTIVES AND 
LEGISLATIVE SOLUTIONS 


HEARING 

BEFORE THE 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON OA^RSIGHT AND 
INA^STIGATIONS 

OF THE 

COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND 
COMMERCE 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATDH]S 

ONE HUNDRED ELEVENTH CONGRESS 

FIRST SESSION 


JULY 27, 2009 


Serial No. 111-58 



Printed for the use of the Committee on Energy and Commerce 
energycommerce.house.gov 


U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
74-091 WASHINGTON : 2012 


For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office 
Internet: bookstore.gpo.gov Phone: toll free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800 
Fax: (202) 512-2104 Mail: Stop IDCC, Washington, DC 20402-0001 


COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE 


HENRY A. WAXMAN, California, Chairman 
JOHN D. DINGELL, Michigan 
Chairman Emeritus 
EDWARD J. MARKEY, Massachusetts 


RICK BOUCHER, Virginia 
FRANK PALLONE, jR., New Jersey 
BART GORDON, Tennessee 
BOBBY L. RUSH, Illinois 
ANNA G. ESHOO, California 
BART STUPAK, Michigan 
ELIOT L. ENGEL, New York 
GENE GREEN, Texas 
DIANA DeGETTE, Colorado 
Vice Chairman 
LOIS CAPPS, California 
MICHAEL F. DOYLE, Pennsylvania 
JANE HARMAN, California 
TOM ALLEN, Maine 
JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY, Illinois 
CHARLES A. GONZALEZ, Texas 
JAY INSLEE, Washington 
TAMMY BALDWIN, Wisconsin 
MIKE ROSS, Arkansas 
ANTHONY D. WEINER, New York 
JIM MATHESON, Utah 
G.K. BUTTERFIELD, North Carolina 
CHARLIE MELANCON, Louisiana 
JOHN BARROW, Georgia 
BARON P. HILL, Indiana 
DORIS O. MATSUI, California 
DONNA M. CHRISTENSEN, Virgin Islands 
KATHY CASTOR, Florida 
JOHN P. SARBANES, Maryland 
CHRISTOPHER S. MURPHY, Connecticut 
ZACHARY T. SPACE, Ohio 
JERRY McNERNEY, California 
BETTY SUTTON, Ohio 
BRUCE BRALEY, Iowa 
PETER WELCH, Vermont 


JOE BARTON, Texas 
Ranking Member 
RALPH M. HALL, Texas 
FRED UPTON, Michigan 
CLIFF STEARNS, Florida 
NATHAN DEAL, Georgia 
ED WHITFIELD, Kentucky 
JOHN SHIMKUS, Illinois 
JOHN B. SHADEGG, Arizona 
ROY BLUNT, Missouri 
STEVE BUYER, Indiana 
GEORGE RADANOVICH, California 
JOSEPH R. PITTS, Pennsylvania 
MARY BONO MACK, California 
GREG WALDEN, Oregon 
LEE TERRY, Nebraska 
MIKE ROGERS, Michigan 
SUE WILKINS MYRICK, North Carolina 
JOHN SULLIVAN, Oklahoma 
TIM MURPHY, Pennsylvania 
MICHAEL C. BURGESS, Texas 
MARSHA BLACKBURN, Tennessee 
PHIL GINGREY, Georgia 
STEVE SCALISE, Louisiana 


(II) 



Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 

BAET STUPAK, Michigan, Chairman 
BRUCE L. BRALEY, Iowa GREG WALDEN, Oregon 

Vice Chairman Ranking Member 

EDWARD J. MARKEY, Massachusetts ED WHITFIELD, Kentucky 

DIANA DeGETTE, Colorado MIKE FERGUSON, New Jersey 

MIKE DOYLE, Pennsylvania TIM MURPHY, Pennsylvania 

JAN SCHAKOWSKY, Illinois MICHAEL C. BURGESS, Texas 

MIKE ROSS, Arkansas 
DONNA M. CHRISTENSEN, Virgin Islands 
PETER WELCH, Vermont 
GENE GREEN, Texas 
BETTY SUTTON, Ohio 
JOHN D. DINGELL, Michigan (ex officio) 


(HI) 




CONTENTS 


Page 

Hon. Bart Stupak, a Representative in Congress from the State of Michigan, 

opening statement 1 

Hon. Baron P. Hill, a Representative in Congress from the State of Indiana, 

opening statement 4 

Hon. John A. Yarmuth, a Representative in Congress from the Common- 
wealth of Kentucky, opening statement 5 

Witnesses 

Peggy Raddatz, Relative of Policyholder, La Grange, Illinois 7 

Prepared statement 9 

Patricia Reilling, Policyholder, Louisville, Kentucky 11 

Prepared statement 16 

Robin Beaton, Policyholder, Waxahachie, Texas 20 

Prepared statement 23 

Richard Collins, Chief Executive Officer, Golden Rule Insurance Company, 

Unitedhealth Group 39 

Prepared statement 41 

Brian A. Sassi, President And Chief Executive Officer, Consumer Business, 

Wellpoint, Inc 44 

Prepared statement 47 

Carol Cutter, Commissioner, Indiana Department of Insurance 53 

Prepared statement 55 

Eleanor Kinney, Co-Director, William S. and Christine S. Hall Center for 

Law and Health, Indiana University School of Law 58 

Prepared statement 60 

Submitted Material 

Document binder 85 


(V) 




TERMINATIONS OF HEALTH POLICIES BY IN- 
SURANCE COMPANIES: STATE PERSPEC- 
TIVES AND LEGISLATIVE SOLUTIONS 


MONDAY, JULY 27, 2009 

House of Representatives, 

Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, 

Committee on Energy and Commerce, 

Washington, DC. 

The subcommittee met, pursuant to call, at 9:00 a.m., in the Hoo- 
sier Room, University Center North Building at Indiana University 
Southeast Campus, 4201 Grant Line Road, New Albany, Indiana, 
the Hon. Bart Stupak [chairman of the subcommittee] presiding. 

Member present: Representative Stupak. 

Also present: Representatives Hill and Yarmuth. 

Staff present: Michael Gordon, Chief Investigative Counsel; Ali 
Golden, Investigator; Paul Jung, Public Health Investigator; and 
Sean Hayes, Minority Oversight Counsel. 

OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. BART STUPAK, A REPRESENT- 
ATIVE IN CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF MICHIGAN 

Mr. Stupak. This meeting will come to order. 

Today we have a hearing entitled “Terminations of Health Poli- 
cies by Insurance Companies: State Perspectives and Legislative 
Solutions.” 

Before we begin the hearing, I would like to thank Congressman 
Hill, a member of the full Energy and Commerce Committee, for 
housing us today here in Indiana. In addition, I want to welcome 
Congressman Yarmuth across the river in Kentucky. 

It is our general practice at subcommittee hearings that non- 
members of the subcommittee do not make opening statements or 
question witnesses. I believe it is appropriate that we deviate from 
this practice today. I ask unanimous consent that Congressmen 
Hill and Yarmuth be permitted to make opening statement, if they 
choose, and to question witnesses during today’s hearing. Hearing 
no objection, that will be the order. 

The chair will now be recognized for a five-minute opening state- 
ment. Other members of the subcommittee will be recognized for 
a three-minute opening statement. I will begin. 

This hearing of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investiga- 
tions has commenced here in Indiana at the request of our friend 
Congressman Baron Hill. We are pleased to be here for this hear- 
ing on abuses in the health insurance industry. I would like to 

( 1 ) 



2 


thank Congressman Hill and his staff for requesting this hearing 
and housing us here today. 

Congressman Hill has been a leader on health care, and I can 
tell you from firsthand experience that he has been working dili- 
gently in Congress and on our Energy and Commerce Committee 
to look out for the people of Indiana. Thank you for having us here 
today, Baron. 

I would also like to welcome our friend Congressman John Yar- 
muth, who is from across the river in Kentucky. Congressman Yar- 
muth has been a key player in many issues in his position on the 
Ways and Means Committee, and we are delighted that he is here 
with us today. 

Let me also thank Indiana University for hosting us today. It is 
critical that Congress understand the concerns of local communities 
as we develop national health care policies, and we do that pre- 
cisely through field hearings like the one we have here today, 
where we can go out and hear directly from people on matters of 
urgent concern. 

Today’s hearing is about a horrendous practice that some insur- 
ance companies engage in called “rescission.” Here is how it works. 
When you apply for health insurance, you fill out an application. 
The forms ask about all of your preexisting conditions and health 
history, and sometimes they are extremely complicated. These in- 
surance companies typically require access to all of your health 
records as well. 

The problem is that these insurance companies do not review 
these applications very carefully when you submit them. They wait. 
They let you pay your premiums, they let you go along and keep 
paying for years, creating a false sense of security that you will be 
covered if something terrible ever happens. 

When something does happen, however, when you develop a 
deadly disease, when you need expensive medical care, or when you 
have to go to a hospital for critical treatment, these insurance com- 
panies don’t honor their agreements. Instead, they mobilize a team 
of investigators to go back through your original application. 

They scour years and years of your medical records to find some 
technicality, some error or omission, some box that wasn’t checked 
when it should have been. And when they find it, they cancel your 
health insurance. They refuse to pay. And there you are in the hos- 
pital left waiting for potentially life-saving medical care that you 
may never receive. 

What is outrageous about this practice is that these insurance 
companies cancel policies even for people who didn’t do anything 
wrong. The omissions on their applications relate to conditions that 
their doctors may have never told them about. They relate to condi- 
tions that insurance companies’ own agents told them not to write 
down. And many times they relate to conditions that are com- 
pletely unrelated to the illness or disease they are now seeking 
treatment for. 

Our subcommittee has been conducting a year-long investigation 
into this abusive practice. We have reviewed more than 116,000 
pages. We have reviewed more than 116,000 pages of documents 
from three of the largest health insurance companies — Assurant, 
United Health Group, and WellPoint. And we learned that these 



3 


three companies retroactively terminated nearly 20,000 policies 
over the past five years based on omissions on applications that 
were identified only after people became ill. These rescissions re- 
sulted in savings to the companies of more than $300 million. 

Last month we held a hearing in Washington, D.C. with these 
three companies, and I asked their CEOs to stop canceling health 
insurance for innocent policyholders. Amazingly, they refused. Let 
me show you a clip from that hearing. It will take a minute to put 
up there. 

[Video presentation begins.] 

Mr. Stupak. Let me ask each of our CEOs this question, starting 
with you, Mr. Hamm. Would you commit today that your company 
will never rescind another policy unless there was intentional 
fraudulent misrepresentation in the application? 

Mr. Hamm. I would not commit to that. 

Mr. Stupak. How about you, Mr. Collins? Would you commit not 
to rescind any policy unless there is intentional fraudulent mis- 
representation? 

Mr. Collins. No, sir. We follow the State laws and regulations, 
and we would not stipulate to that. That is not consistent with 
each State’s policies. 

Mr. Stupak. How about you, Mr. Sassi? Would you commit that 
your company will never rescind another policy unless there was 
intentional fraudulent misrepresentation? 

Mr. Sassi. No, I can’t commit to that. 

Mr. Stupak. Each of these three companies simply refused to 
stop canceling innocent policyholders’ contracts. Now, it is one 
thing to cancel coverage for someone who commits insurance fraud, 
but it is another thing to cancel coverage for people in the middle 
of a health care crisis based on innocent mistakes or technicalities. 
It is simply not fair for insurance companies to collect record prof- 
its and award their executives billions of dollars while they are de- 
nying innocent people the health insurance they pay for. 

Facing with this damning testimony, we concluded that the only 
way to stop these insurance companies was to change the law. So 
our Energy and Commerce Committee has drafted health reform 
legislation that will prohibit this practice of rescission once and for 
all. 

Our bill will protect consumers in a couple of ways. First, we will 
prohibit insurance companies from rescinding coverage unless 
there is clear and convincing evidence of fraud during the applica- 
tion process. Second, we guarantee that consumers have an inde- 
pendent and third-party review of any rescission. 

We have asked the insurance companies back today to see if they 
have had a change of heart and to find out what they think of our 
legislation. We have also invited Indiana’s Insurance Commis- 
sioner, Carol Cutter, to hear if the State of Indiana supports end- 
ing this terrible practice, as well as Professor Eleanor ffinney, the 
co-director of Indiana Law School’s Center for Law and Health. 

I also want to extend a personal thanks to both Peggy Raddatz 
and Robin Beaton, who traveled here today from Illinois and Texas 
to tell us their stories about how these insurance companies im- 
properly rescinded their health insurance. I also want to thank Pa- 



4 


tricia Reilling from Louisville, Kentucky for testifying today about 
how her policy was recently terminated by her insurance company. 

Let me point out that Ms. Beaton’s case highlights that this is 
not a partisan issue. This is not a Democratic or Republican issue. 
When Ms. Beaton’s insurance company canceled her health insur- 
ance, she called her local congressman, Joe Barton, who happens 
to be the ranking Republican member of our committee. To his im- 
mense credit. Congressman Barton intervened on Ms. Beaton’s be- 
half, and made sure the insurance committee reinstated her cov- 
erage. 

Ms. Beaton, I know you regard Mr. Barton as a hero for coming 
to your rescue. I am not sure if you heard what Congressman Bar- 
ton said at our hearing in Washington about your case, so let me 
show you, and here is what he said. 

[Video presentation begins.] 

Mr. Barton. I think I speak for every member of the committee 
on both sides of the aisle that if in fact there is a practice of going 
in after the fact and canceling policies on technicalities, we have 
got to do whatever is possible to prevent that. If a citizen acts in 
good faith, we expect the insurance companies who take their 
money to act in good faith also. 

Mr. Stupak. I couldn’t have said it better myself 

That is the end of my opening statement. Let me next turn to 
Congressman Baron Hill. Thank you again for hosting us, and you 
will be recognized for an opening statement, please. 

OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. BARON P. HILL, A REPRESENT- 
ATIVE IN CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF INDIANA 

Mr. Hill. Thank you, Bart. I want to begin by thanking Con- 
gressman Stupak for taking the time to come to the place where 
God himself was born in Southern Indiana. It is good to have you 
here in Hoosier State, and we are delighted that you are carrying 
on these hearings. Hopefully, you will be able to get some results, 
and people all across our great country will get relief from some of 
the questionable practices that I have been hearing about. 

I also would like you to know that Congressman Stupak is from 
Michigan, and I am going to be spending a lot of time in your great 
State, Congressman Stupak, because my youngest daughter this 
Wednesday travels to Ann Arbor to attend medical school at the 
University of Michigan. So I am looking forward to that as well. 

I have heard Congressman Stupak talk about this issue of post- 
claims underwriting or health insurance rescission, what tran- 
spired at the hearing held on this issue in Washington, D.C. I am 
very interested to hear what our witnesses have to say today in 
light of that hearing, and some of the things that they have said 
that they would not do as a company in response to Congressman 
Stupak’s questions about whether or not they would change their 
ways of looking at the claims. 

And I would also like to thank all of the witnesses for taking the 
time to participate in this hearing. This hearing could not be more 
timely. I hope it sheds light on some of the serious ills of our cur- 
rent health care system. 

Health care reform is certainly the topic of conversation right 
now. Today, I am going to be going back to meet with the com- 



5 


mittee chairman and the White House and other members of the 
Energy and Commerce Committee who are dealing with this most 
important issue, so that we can have health care for all Americans. 

So I am glad we are holding such an important hearing right 
here in New Albany. This issue of health insurance rescission is, 
quite honestly, shocking. I can’t imagine what I would do if this 
happened to someone in my family, and I think that is how we 
need to approach health care reform. 

Put yourself in other people’s shoes. This issue is particularly 
distressing, because these folks aren’t trying to trick the system. 
They are trying to do the right thing by being covered. And then, 
to have the rug pulled out from underneath them is not acceptable. 

This is also a completely bipartisan issue, as Congressman Stu- 
pak has already spoken about. The most vocal critic of this practice 
is the Republican ranking member of the Energy and Commerce 
Committee, Congressman Joe Barton. 

And I want to repeat what has already been said. In fact. Con- 
gressman Barton said this today, this morning, and also said it 
during the hearing, or not Congressman Barton but Congressman 
Stupak was quoting Congressman Barton. “I think I speak for 
every member of the committee on both sides of the aisle that if 
in fact there is a practice of going in after the fact and canceling 
policies on technicalities, we have got to do whatever is possible to 
prevent that.” 

So I thank everybody for coming today, and I look forward to 
hearing more testimony from our witnesses. Hopefully, we will be 
able to get some resolution to this very serious problem. 

Thank you. 

Mr. Stupak. Thank you. 

Mr. Yarmuth, your opening statement, please. And it is a pleas- 
ure to have you here as a member of the Ways and Means Com- 
mittee. And now you are an honorary member of the Energy and 
Commerce Committee. 

OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. JOHN A. YARMUTH, A REP- 
RESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS FROM THE COMMONWEALTH 

OF KENTUCKY 

Mr. Yarmuth. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and thank 
you for extending the courtesies of the subcommittee to me. Thank 
you for holding this hearing. 

This hearing is important for a number of reasons. I think the 
foremost reason it is critical is that as we debate insurance reform 
and health care reform, we end up talking about a lot of dollars 
and a lot of abstract theories and a lot of macroeconomic implica- 
tions. But at its very core, this is a debate about human beings, 
and this is a debate about humans and their families and their 
need and their right to have quality health care coverage that they 
can afford. 

So I am very appreciative of the three witnesses — Ms. Beaton, 
Ms. Raddatz, and Ms. Reilling — for being willing to come here and 
tell their stories, because unfortunately their stories are not atypi- 
cal. Their stories are all too common, and we are proud to have 
them. It is very valuable to have a human face put on the issues 
that we are discussing today. 



6 


Secondly, we will hear a lot about coverage and the uninsured 
today, and what is important to note is — and I think this hearing 
is important because it will point out a number of the reasons why 
people end up uninsured. It is not because they don’t want to have 
insurance. It is because they are put in positions where, through 
no fault of their own, they are cast in a market where they cannot 
either afford or even buy at any cost the insurance that they need. 

And we will hear a lot of discussion about profits. I know, for in- 
stance, that over the last — well, for seven years, from 2000 to 2007, 
the profits of the 10 largest insurance companies rose over 400 per- 
cent. I don’t think that the cost of health care rose over 400 per- 
cent. I know it didn’t. I know salaries didn’t rise over 400 percent. 
And when you connect what we have — the subjects we will hear 
today, the stories we will hear today, to both issues of profitability 
and to the inability of Americans to afford insurance, it will be very 
clear. 

And, finally, I think these hearings are important, because as we 
discuss the need for a public option in health care reform, a public 
option that will compete with private insurers, as President Obama 
says “to keep them honest,” I think it will be abundantly clear after 
these hearings why keeping the insurance companies honest is a 
mandatory element of what we are trying to do in Congress for the 
American people right now. 

So I applaud the subcommittee for holding this hearing, and I 
am happy to be a part of it. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Mr. Stupak. Thank you, Mr. Yarmuth. 

Let us call our first panel of witnesses forward. On our first 
panel we have Ms. Robin Beaton, who is a policyholder from 
Waxahachie, Texas. Ms. Beaton, if you want to come forward. Ms. 
Peggy Raddatz of LaGrange, Illinois, who is a sister of the late pol- 
icyholder, Otto Raddatz. And Ms. Patricia Reilling, who is a policy- 
holder from Louisville, Kentucky. If she would come forward, 
please. 

OK. This is a congressional hearing. Our statements, questions, 
and answers to our questions are recorded and will be part of the 
official record of the Energy and Commerce Committee. It is the 
policy of the subcommittee to take all testimony under oath. Please 
be advised that you have the right under the rules of the House 
to be advised by counsel during your testimony. 

Do any of you wish to be advised by counsel? You are all shaking 
your head in a no manner, so I figure that is no. OK. Then, I am 
going to ask you to take the oath. 

[Witnesses sworn.] 

Let the record reflect that the witnesses have replied in the af- 
firmative. You are now under oath, beginning with your opening 
statement. We will have an opening statement. You may submit a 
longer statement for the record, and it will be included in the offi- 
cial transcript. 

Ms. Beaton, do you want to start? No. Ms. Raddatz, would you 
like to start? 



7 


STATEMENTS OF PEGGY RADDATZ, RELATIVE OF POLICY- 
HOLDER, LAGRANGE, ILLINOIS; PATRICIA REILLING, POL- 
ICYHOLDER, LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY; AND ROBIN BEATON, 

POLICYHOLDER, WAXAHACHIE, TEXAS 

STATEMENT OF PEGGY RADDATZ 

Ms. Raddatz. I would be happy to, Chairman. Once again, thank 
you very much for inviting me here today. My name is Peggy 
Raddatz, and I am appearing here today to testify on behalf of my 
brother, Otto S. Raddatz. My brother was business owner of a res- 
taurant that he ran with his wife Marie. He purchased a health in- 
surance policy from Fortis Insurance Company in August of 2003, 
as so many small business owners do in this country. 

On the application he indicated he had kidney stones and that 
he smoked. He also listed all physicians who treated him. Otto’s 
health application with Fortis was accepted, and his coverage 
began in August of 2003. 

A year later, my brother found himself inexplicably losing 
weight. His wife, Marie Raddatz, urged him to see a doctor. In Sep- 
tember of 2004, my 59 year-old brother was diagnosed with Stage 
4 Non-Hodgkins-type lymphoma. The very next day he began an 
intensive course of chemotherapy treatments. 

Due to the very aggressive type of cancer that my brother had, 
a mantel zone lymphoma, he was given six more rounds of chemo- 
therapy by January of 2005. This was a very difficult time for him. 
Because he was going through intensive chemotherapy, he found it 
difficult to work, and as a result difficult to continue to manage his 
business as a restaurant owner. 

Otto was referred to a specialist in stem cell transplantation and 
for high-dose chemotherapy. Otto began more chemotherapy for 
purposes of preparing him for a stem cell transplant. In the midst 
of his chemo treatments, Otto received a phone call and letter from 
Fortis Insurance Company stating his insurance was canceled. He 
was devastated. I remember the day very well. 

My very strong brother who was always together, my older 
brother, was just totally distraught. And he called me, his sister, 
who happens to be attorney. He was rescinded all the way back to 
the acceptance date of August 7, 2004, which meant he basically 
had no health insurance whatsoever. This meant none of his cancer 
treatments would be covered at all going all the way back to the 
beginning when he first got cancer. 

Most importantly, he would not be able to receive the stem cell 
transplant that he needed to save his life. My brother only had a 
very small window of time in which to receive a stem cell trans- 
plant. He needed to be scheduled within the next three to four 
weeks or else he wasn’t going to receive it, because there would be 
no point to receive it. He would simply worsen and die. 

My brother was told he was canceled during what the Fortis In- 
surance Company called a “routine review” during which they 
claimed to discover a material failure to disclose on the part of my 
brother Otto. Apparently, in 2000, his doctor had — his family doc- 
tor had done a CT scan which showed an aneurysm and gall 
stones. My brother was never told of either one of these conditions. 



8 


nor was he ever treated for them and he never reported any symp- 
toms whatsoever for these conditions. 

After months of preparation, both mentally and physically, the 
stem cell transplant could not be scheduled. My brother’s hopes for 
being a cancer survivor were totally dashed. His prognosis was only 
a matter of months without the procedure. 

When I called the hospital to see if, as his sister, an attorney, 
I could schedule the stem cell transplant for him, I was callously 
told, “Unless your brother brings in cash, he is not going to get the 
procedure without his insurance any longer.” 

My brother, who was very, very ill, and was given only a few 
months to live, was accused by the Fortis Insurance Company of 
falsely stating his health insurance history, despite the fact that he 
had no knowledge of ever having any gall stones or aneurysms 
whatsoever. 

Luckily, I am an attorney and was able to aggressively become 
involved in solving this life-threatening situation for him. I con- 
tacted the Illinois Attorney General’s office and received immediate 
and daily assistance from Dr. Babs Waldman, the Medical Director 
of their Health Insurance Bureau. 

During their investigation, they located the doctor who ordered 
the CT scan. He had no recollection whatsoever of disclosing the in- 
formation to my brother about an aneurysm and gall stones, or of 
ever treating him for it. After two appeals by the Illinois Attorney 
General’s office, Fortis Insurance Company overturned their origi- 
nal decision to rescind my brother’s coverage, and he was rein- 
stated without any lapse. 

Without the help of the Illinois Attorney General’s office, this 
would not have been possible whatsoever. What the Fortis Insur- 
ance Company did was unethical. To deny a dying person nec- 
essary medical treatment, based upon medical conditions a patient 
has never had any knowledge of, has never complained about, and 
has never even been treated for, is cruel. 

It is our family’s hope that this information will benefit other pa- 
tients who are in need of life-saving medical treatments, and who 
do not have knowledge or means necessary to fight against the 
health insurance companies. It is, further, our desire to expose 
these practices of the Fortis Insurance Company, so that others 
who are so deathly ill as my brother was do not suffer as the vic- 
tims of these insurance companies. 

Thank you very much. 

[The prepared testimony of Peggy Raddatz follows:] 



9 


Statement of Peggy M. Raddatz 


My name is Peggy M. Raddatz and I am appearing here today to testify on behalf of my 
brother, Otto S. Raddatz. 

My brother was a business owner of a restaurant that he ran with his wife, Marie. He 
purchased a health insurance policy from Fortis Insurance Company in August of 2003. 
On the application he indicated he had kidney stones and smoked. He also listed all 
physicians who treated him. Otto’s health application with Fortis was accepted and his 
coverage began in August of 2003. 

A year later my brother found himself inexplicably losing weight. His wife, Marie Raddatz, 
urged him to see a doctor. In September of 2004 my 59 year old brother was diagnosed 
with Stage IV NonHodgkins Lymphoma. The very next day he began an intensive course 
of chemotherapy treatments. 

Due to the aggressive type of cancer Otto had, being mantel zone lymphoma, he was 
given six more rounds of chemotherapy by January of 2005. 

Otto was referred to a specialist in stem cell transplantation and for high dose 
chemotherapy. 

Otto began more chemotherapy for purposes of preparing him for a stem cell transplant. 
In the midst of his chemo treatments, Otto received a phone call and letter from Fortis 
Insurance Company stating his insurance was canceled. It was rescinded all the way back 
to the effective date of August 7, 2004. 

This meant none of his cancer treatments would be covered. Most importantly, he would 
not be able to receive the stem cell transplant need to save his life. My brother only had 
a very small window of time in which to have the stem cell transplant. He needed to be 
scheduled within the next 3 to 4 weeks. 

My brother was told he was canceled during what they called a “routine review" during 
which they claimed to discover a “material failure to disclose”. Apparently in 2000 his 
doctor had done a CT scan which showed an aneurysm and gall stones. My brother was 
never told of either one of these conditions nor was he ever treated for them and he never 
reported any symptoms for them either. 

After months of preparation, the stem cell transplant could not be scheduled. My brother’s 
hope for being a cancer survivor were dashed. His prognosis was only a matter of months 
without the procedure. 



10 


When I called the hospital to see if I could schedule the stem cell transplant for him I was 
callously told “unless your brother brings in cash, he is not going to get the procedure 
without insurance.” 

My brother was accused by Fortis Insurance Company of falsely stating his health 
insurance history, despite the fact that he had no knowledge of ever having any gall stones 
or aneurysms. 

Luckily, I am an attorney and was able to aggressively become involved in solving this life 
threatening situation. I contacted the Illinois Attorney General’s office and received 
immediate and daily assistance from Dr. Babs H. Waldman, M. D., the medical Director of 
their Health Bureau. 

During their investigation, they located the doctor who ordered the CT scan. He had no 
recollection of disclosing the information to my brother or treating him for it. 

After two appeals by the Illinois Attorney General's Office, Fortis Insurance Company 
overturned their original decision to rescind my brother’s coverage and he was reinstated 
without any lapse. 

Without the help of the office of the Illinois Attorney General, this would not have been 
possible. 

What the Fortis Insurance Company did was unethical. To deny a dying person necessary 
medical treatment based upon medical conditions a patient has never had knowledge of, 
never complained about or never been treated for is cruel. 

It is our hope that this information will benefit other patients who are in need of life saving 
medical treatments and who do not have the knowledge or means necessary to fight 
against the health insurance companies. It is further our desire to expose these practices 
of Fortis Insurance Company so that others do not suffer as their victims. 


Respectfuily submitted. 




11 


Mr. Stupak. Thank you, Ms. Raddatz. 

Ms. Reilling, would you like to testify? You might want to pull 
that mic up. Thank you, and thank you for coming. 

STATEMENT OF PATRICIA REILLING 

Ms. Reilling. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, and members of 
Congress. My name is Patricia Reilling. 

I opened an art gallery in 1987, and in 1990 I took out a group 
health insurance plan with Anthem through the Kentucky Retail 
Federation. In 1994, my policy was changed to a one-person group, 
and I have had the same coverage, with slight changes on occasion, 
until June 30 of this year. I received a letter from Anthem at the 
beginning of June informing me that my coverage would end on 
June 30, 2009, and that was the first time I had heard anything 
about it. 

To be honest, I hadn’t even opened that letter for at least four 
or five days, because I had also received the information I get from 
my insurance agent every year around this time telling me about 
the renewal rates for the coming year. And this time the letter was 
very positive and said there were no change in the rates, I would 
have the same rates, and that was just great. 

And I also received a bill for my July premium, so I had opened 
those, and so I wasn’t really thinking that this letter from Anthem 
was going to be anything that, you know, was very urgent. 

So when I opened that, I was just — I was totally shocked, and 
it didn’t make much sense to me. And I called the agent, and then 
we started talking about it. But if you don’t mind, I would like to 
back up a little bit and tell you some of the background concerning 
my health and the reason that it has been so devastating for me. 

I have always been really healthy. I hadn’t been in a hospital 
since my son was born, which was several years ago. And I could 
be in a room full of people that had the flu, I mean there could be 
hundreds, and I wouldn’t even get the sniffles. And I did have a 
bad back. I mean, I have a bad back, and I at one time had some 
tests, and I see a pain management doctor about three or four 
times a year, and I am on prescriptions meds for this. That is the 
only thing in these actually almost 20 years that I have been with 
Anthem. 

Other than that, I usually describe myself as being healthy as a 
horse, which is not really flattering, but it is pretty much true, 
until March of 2008 when I discovered a lump in my breast. After 
visiting my primary care physician, I went for a mammogram and 
ultrasound. And when the technician was finished, she said she 
had to check with the radiologist to see if she had everything she 
needed. 

After a couple of minutes, much to my dismay she was not the 
one who came back in, but it was the doctor who came in and sat 
down on the table to explain that they had found lumps in both 
breasts, and that he was absolutely certain that they weren’t cysts, 
and that I needed to go to a general surgeon right away for biop- 
sies. 

So even before the surgeon performed the biopsies, he told me 
that he was certain that it was cancer, and that he would need to 
remove both breasts. He did the biopsies, but he had difficulty lo- 



12 


eating one of the tumors, and he needed to do one of the biopsies 
again, so he ordered an MRI. 

Well, I very soon, to my amazement, received a letter from An- 
them that denied the MRI with the explanation that nothing — 
something to this effect, that nothing in my health background or 
my family history indicated that I would be likely to have cancer. 
And considering the fact that I don’t even know anything about my 
family history, I thought that was really astonishing. 

So I ended up having to go through another biopsy, which was 
really painful, because the doctor ended up having to do a lot of 
hunting and digging because the point was that he couldn’t find it 
in the first place. So the outcome, of course, was that I did have 
cancer in both breasts. So April 7, I had the bilateral mastectomies. 
I made a rather long but full recovery, and on December 2, 2008, 
I was admitted to Baptist East Hospital again for reconstructive 
surgery, and I was there for about five days. 

And after the last drain was removed at my plastic surgeon’s of- 
fice, and I am probably being a little graphic, but a lot has hap- 
pened, and if you all don’t mind I don’t, so it was around January 
7 that I returned to her office. And on the 14th — that was when 
they took the last drain out. 

On the 14th, when I went back, it was very obvious that I had 
a very serious abdominal infection, and she wanted to admit me to 
the hospital right then. I couldn’t, because I had had a little break- 
fast, so the next morning at 5:00 a.m. I was at the hospital and 
I was admitted for emergency abdominal surgery for a very 
invasive case of MRSA staph infection, which I had contracted dur- 
ing the reconstructive surgery in December. 

The incision from my Ilecember surgery was reopened, and my 
abdomen was flushed with antibiotic fluid, and the incision was 
closed. And then, two days later I had another emergency surgery, 
and, again, the same thing happened, they flushed my abdomen 
out. But I was so ill and had gone in so ill that they had to give 
me blood transfusions and potassium, and I was pretty much at 
death’s door. 

And this time they actually had to remove the interior part of my 
navel and sew up my belly button, which this is — I am using really 
intricate medical terms here, but this is what she — how she de- 
scribed it to me, because this infection had eaten away all of the 
interior part of my navel. And I remained in the hospital for seven 
days, and went home, had to stay with a relative for a week be- 
cause I couldn’t take care of myself. 

And, basically, I have not regained my strength since that time. 
It has flared up in a major way about three times since then, every 
time I go off the antibiotics. Now the area where the abdominal 
muscles were attached during my reconstruction surgery have all 
been comprised from this infection, and they no longer support my 
innards, again using the most sophisticated medical terms. And I 
really can’t stand for more than 15 or 20 minutes. So the infectious 
disease doctor feels that the infection is deeply embedded in the 
scar tissue and is going to require surgery in order to clear that 
up. 

So because of the MRSA staph infection, I have never been able 
to complete my surgeries for my cancer. And now even the surgery 



13 


that I had has been compromised, and that is going to have to be 
redone. And, obviously, with no insurance, that is impossible. So I 
can’t even get rid of this infection, because I don’t have any cov- 
erage. 

I was told that recovery from this reconstructive surgery should 
be about six weeks. I have been totally out of commission for eight 
months, have not been able to work, and I work for myself That, 
combined with the recovery time for the mastectomies, that has ac- 
tually — it has been really devastating. 

The MRSA was difficult enough to deal with, but when I received 
notification that my insurance had been canceled with barely a 
month’s notice, the world came crashing down. My medications 
alone — and this is generic medications — are close to $2,000 a 
month. 

So they said — I had an appointment — just to give you an exam- 
ple, I had an appointment with an infectious disease doctor to see 
her again, and when I went to see her at her office they told me 
that it would cost me $280, because I didn’t have insurance. So 
they made an appointment with her for me at the clinic, because 
she is with U of L. 

And my appointment was at 9:00. I didn’t see her until well after 
11:00. I didn’t get out of there until after 12:00, and it was not at 
all the same as when I saw her in her private office. 

The reason I mention it is because I have always been a very 
compassionate person, and I have always tried to put myself in 
someone else’s shoes. But I have certainly been getting an in-depth 
education in the difference between the haves and the have-nots. 
This has all been a really eye-opening experience. 

You can imagine it is not easy to stand up in front of the world 
and tell some of the most intimate details of your life, but never 
in my wildest dreams did I imagine that I would find myself in this 
situation. I started out with a successful career as a copywriter, I 
ran a manufacturing company in New York, and then I opened my 
art gallery, and all it took was for me to get sick to have everything 
come crashing down. 

If I hadn’t gotten the staph infection, things would have been a 
little tight for a while, but life would have gone on. As it is now, 
I have gone from driving a Mercedes and traveling around the 
world and going to New York to get my hair done to spending every 
waking moment calling agency after agency trying to get assistance 
from pharmaceutical companies to get my prescriptions, trying to 
find out who can help me pay my utility bills, and who knew that 
even food stamps are on plastic these days. I used to sell my 
clothes in consignment stores; now that is where I buy them. 

I guess one of the points I would like to make is that it can hap- 
pen to almost anybody. If you get sick and you lose your insurance, 
you can be in serious trouble in an amazingly short period of time. 

I have had this same policy with Anthem for nearly 20 years. 
After having that policy, 15 years of which was considered — I was 
considered a one-person group, and I never missed a payment — I 
really can’t understand how I could receive a letter that gave me 
less than 30 days after they canceled me. 

So I called my agent who told me that Anthem was no longer 
going to allow one-person groups, which I thought was a little odd 



14 


since I have been a one-person group for almost 15 years. So I 
started calling around. I also thought since I was in the middle of 
cancer treatment, and this MRSA, I couldn’t understand how I 
could be dropped. 

So I called the insurance company, and I finally reached someone 
who wouldn’t give me an answer, never said anything about their 
policy of canceling one-person groups, but they said that they had 
sent me a letter in April and that they had sent me a letter in 
May, and they told me that I would have been given an oppor- 
tunity to at least dispute this, but they had not heard anything 
from me. Consequently, I was canceled. 

Well, I never got the letter. So I called my agent, and she said, 
“Oh, yes, I knew about that. But I knew that you wouldn’t be able 
to afford the policy,” the conversion policy, which was more than 
double what I was paying. “So I didn’t call you. I didn’t let you 
know about it.” 

Maybe I wouldn’t have been able to afford that. I wouldn’t have. 
But I would have at least had time to try to look for an option. I 
would have had time to try to get in touch with pharmaceutical 
companies to get the drugs. And she did forward the letters to me, 
and they never did send them to me. Those letters were addressed 
to the agent. They were never addressed to me. They said, “Dear 
Customer,” but the addresses on the letters were both the insur- 
ance agent. 

And, actually, the information in the letters, that never said any- 
thing about canceling one-person groups either. Nowhere in any of 
these conversations did it say anything about that. So it didn’t — 
it just — she had taken good care of me for almost 20 years, but I 
don’t know what happened through all of this. But the fact that the 
results of an error like this being so monumentally disastrous and 
without recourse can obviously be acceptable to the insurance com- 
panies seems not only unbelievable but, quite honestly, inexcusable 
to me. 

In my appeal to the insurance company, all I asked was that 
they continue my coverage until my treatment could be concluded, 
and their answer said something about — oh, and this came from 
the president of the company, the president of Anthem. She said 
that she hoped that my health would improve and that I would re- 
gain my previous lifestyle, and she said that there was nothing 
they could do about their policies. 

How they expected me to return to my good health and lifestyle 
I don’t know, but maybe I should have asked to speak to the psy- 
chic who knew that my family’s health background had predeter- 
mined that I wouldn’t have cancer. I don’t know. 

But I just wanted to thank President Obama and all of our Con- 
gressmen and their hard-working staff members for their time and 
efforts to make changes in our system, so that this type of thing 
will become a bad memory. 

Just to add a light note. When I was typing this up the night 
before last, I got a phone call. And I looked at my caller ID and 
it said Anthem Blue Cross/Blue Shield. Now this is 26 days after 
I have been dumped by the company. And it is — for a minute this 
Pollyana that lives inside me is thinking, “Oh my gosh, they are 
calling me and they are going to reinstate me.” 



15 


Then, the realist in me says, “You are an idiot. That isn’t pos- 
sible.” And this lovely recording of this woman’s voice comes on and 
says, “Have you had a mammogram lately?” And I am thinking 
this is really adding insult to injury. And it goes on and asks about 
other tests and how it is very important for me to do these 
preventatively and everything. And I thought, if only you were a 
real person and I could say, “I would love to have these other tests, 
but I don’t have insurance.” 

So thank you very much. 

[The prepared testimony of Patricia Reilling follows:] 



16 


Patricia Reiliing July 25, 2009 

Good Morning Mr. Chairman and Members of Congress. My name is Patricia Reiliing. 

1 opened my art gallery in 1987 and in 1990 took out a group health insurance plan with 
Anthem through the KY Retail Federation. In 1994, my policy was changed to a one- 
person group and I have had that same coverage - with slight changes on occasion - 
until June 30 of this year. I received a letter from Anthem at the beginning of June, 
informing me that my coverage would end on June 30, 2009 and that was the first time I 
had heard anything about it. To be honest, I had not even opened the letter for at least 
four or five days, because 1 had also received the information 1 get from my insurance 
agent every year around this time telling me about renewal rates for the coming year, as 
well as my bill for July's premium payment. I had opened those and was planning on 
calling my agent to ask if I should make any changes or stay with what I had, since it’s 
all Greek to me and I’ve always followed her advice. When I did open the cancellation 
letter, I was totally shocked. 

But if you don't mind, I’d like to back up a little and tell you some background 
concerning my health and the reason this has been so devastating for me. I have 
always been very healthy, hadn’t been in a hospital since my son was born, and could 
be in a room full of people with the flu and wouldn’t even get the sniffles. I do have a 
bad back and at one time had a few tests - and now see a pain management doctor 
three or four times a year. I have also been on some prescription meds for this 
condition. Other than that, I've been known to describe myself as being “healthy as a 
horse,” which I guess isn’t very flattering, but it is pretty accurate - or was ... until March 
of 2008, when I discovered a lump in my breast. 

After visiting my primary care physician, I went for a mammogram and ultra-sound and 
when the technician was finished, she said she’d just check with the Radiologist to be 
sure she had everything she needed. Much to my dismay, it was the doctor who came 
in and sat down on the table with me to explain they'd found lumps In both breasts, they 
were definitely not cysts and I needed to see a general surgeon for biopsies. 

Even before the surgeon performed the biopsies, he told me he was quite certain it was 
cancer and that he would need to remove both breasts. He did the biopsies, but had 
difficulty locating one of the tumors and needed to do one of the biopsies again and 
ordered an MRI. Much to my amazement, I received a letter from Anthem denying the 
MRI with the explanation that nothing in my health background or family history 
indicated that I would be likely to have cancer. Considering the fact that even / don’t 
know my family's health history, I found that to be truly astonishing. They did, 
eventually, approve it but by that time I had already gone through another rather painful 



17 


biopsy - which required a bit of hunting and digging - and as expected, 1 did have 
cancer in both breasts and had the mastectomies on April 7, 2008. 

I made a rather long, but full recovery and on December 2, 2008 was admitted to 
Baptist East Hospital for reconstructive surgery and was released after five days. The 
last drain was removed at my plastic surgeon's office around January 7 and when i 
returned to her office on January 14'^ it was obvious I had a serious abdominal infection 
and she wanted to admit me to the hospital that morning but had to wait until the next 
day because I’d eaten a small breakfast. I was admitted to Baptist East at 5:30 a.m. on 
the is"* for emergency abdominal surgery for a very invasive case of MRSA, which I 
contracted during my reconstructive surgery in December. The incision from my 
December surgery was re-opened and my abdomen was flushed with six liters of 
antibiotic fluid and the incision was closed. I then had another emergency surgery on 
the 17*'’ and was so ill and anemic that t required a blood transfusion {I believe a normal 
hemoglobin count is 1 3-15, mine was 7 and my potassium level was so low that they 
had to do a ‘fast feed’ into my vein right before surgery that was the most painful thing 
I’ve ever experienced.) In addition to flushing out my abdomen, this time the surgeon 
had to remove my entire umbilicus (basically the interior portion of my belly button) and 
sew up the actual belly button, because the infection had eaten it away. I remained in 
the hospital for seven days and had to stay with relatives for a week or more before 
going home because I could not take care of myself. Since that time, I have never 
regained my strength and the MRSA has flared up in a major way three times, pretty 
much every time I stop taking the antibiotics. 

Now, the area where my abdominal muscles were attached during my reconstruction 
surgery seems to have been compromised by the MRSA and the muscles are no longer 
supporting my ‘innards’ - to use the most sophisticated medical terms - and it is very 
painful to stand for more than 15 or 20 minutes. My infectious disease doctor feels that 
the infection is deeply imbedded in the scar tissue and will require surgery to clear it up. 
Because of the MRSA, I was never able to complete the second stage of my 
reconstruction surgery and now a large portion of my original surgery has been 
compromised and will need to be repaired. Obviously, with no insurance coverage this 
will be impossible. 

I was told that recovery time for this TRAM flap procedure was approximately six weeks, 
i have been totally out of commission for eight months. That, combined with the 
recovery time from my mastectomies without work has been devastating. The MRSA 
was difficult enough to deal with, but when I received notification that my insurance was 
being cancelled - with barely a month’s notice, the world came crashing down. My 
medications alone - and this is generics - come to nearly $2, 000.00/month. I recently 
had an appointment with my infectious disease doctor, but when I told them my 
insurance had been cancelled, they told me it would cost $280.00 to see her. They said 



18 


I could see her at the clinic, but it would be another 2 34 weeks. I made the appointment 
for 9 a.m., didn’t get to see her until after 1 1 and to be honest, things just weren’t the 
same. I’ve always been a very compassionate person and have tried to put myself in 
another’s shoes. But I have certainly been getting an in-depth education in the 
difference between the haves and the have-nots recently and it’s truly eye-opening. 

As you can probably imagine, it’s not easy to virtually stand up in front of the world and 
tell some of the most intimate details of your life. But then, I never in my wildest dreams 
imagined I would find myself in this situation. I started out with a successful career as a 
Copywriter for some of Louisville’s top agencies then became a freelance writer. I ran a 
manufacturing company in New York, then opened my art gallery, which was an instant 
success and have remained working in art, interior design and organization . . . until I got 
sick. Had I not gotten the staph infection, things would have been a little tight for a 
while, but life would have rolled on. As it is now, I’ve gone from driving a Mercedes 
convertible, with a mini-van for the gallery; travelling around the world; getting my hair 
done in New York; paying all my bills and being able to help anyone who needed it 
(which was my greatest joy) ... to spending every waking moment calling agency after 
agency for assistance and pharmaceutical companies for free medications and trying to 
find freelance writing jobs again (which I love, but no longer have my connections) 
because that’s work I can do lying down. Who knew that even food stamps are on 
plastic these days? I used to sell my clothes at consignment stores, now ! buy them 
there, but I’m not complaining, there are beautiful things to be found . . . and I’m not 
proud. 

I guess one of the points I’d like to make is that it can happen to almost anyone. If you 
get sick and you lose your insurance, you can be in serious trouble in an amazingly 
short period of time. With all the laws that have been passed protecting women with 
breast cancer and assuring they will get proper treatment, I never imagined I could end 
up in this situation ... with no way to repair my initial surgery and complete my 
reconstruction. After having been a policy holder with Anthem for nearly twenty years, 
almost fifteen of which I was considered a one-person group and never missed a 
payment, I couldn’t understand how I could receive a letter dated June 1 , 2009 saying 
my coverage would end June 30, 2009! 

I called my agent, who told me that Anthem was no longer going to allow one-person 
groups. I still couldn’t understand how they could drop me with so little notice and with 
my cancer reconstruction surgery not completed. So I began writing and calling 
everyone I could think of. I finally reached someone who told me I had been sent a 
letter telling me they were discontinuing my coverage (no mention of one-person 
groups) in April and another in May that I could respond to. I never received those. 

They told me the letters were also sent to my agent and when I called and asked, she 
said she had received a letter, but said that they were offering a conversion plan that 



19 


was way too expensive and she knew I wouldn’t be able to afford it and said she had 
sent it on to me. She did send it on, but that was after 1 had received the cancellation 
notice. Had I known something in April, 1 could have at least had a head start on finding 
some alternative coverage and certainly could have gotten in touch with the 
pharmaceutical companies for my prescriptions. 

I’m sure this was an oversight or mistake of some kind, because for nearly twenty years 
she has provided me with excellent service. But the fact that the results of an error like 
this being so monumentally disastrous and without recourse seems unbelievable and 
quite honestly inexcusable on the part of the insurance company. In my appeal, all I 
asked was that they continue my coverage until my treatment could be concluded. Their 
answer said something about hoping my health improved and that I regained my 
previous lifestyle. How they expected that to happen I don’t know. Maybe I should 
have asked to speak to the psychic who knew that my family’s health background had 
pre-determined that I couldn’t possibly have cancer. 

I just want to thank President Obama and all our congressmen and their hardworking 
staff members for their time and efforts to make changes in our system so this type of 
thing will become a bad memory. I know that my time can certainly be better spent than 
making endless calls, writing countless letters and waiting on never ending lines merely 
in an attempt to restore some semblance of normalcy and a lesser degree of panic to 
my life. 



20 


Mr. Stupak. Thank you for your testimony. 

Ms. Beaton, your testimony, please. 

STATEMENT OF ROBIN BEATON 

Ms. Beaton. Mr. Chairman, members of the committee 

Mr. Stupak. Can you just pull that mic up? It is hard to hear 
you. I know you have a soft voice. 

Ms. Beaton. Is that good? 

Mr. Stupak. That is better. Thank you. 

Ms. Beaton. Mr. Chairman, members of the committee, I am 
very honored to be here today to share my story. My name is Robin 
Beaton. I was registered nurse for 30 years. I had group insurance 
and was in very good health. I retired from nursing and opened a 
small antique business. My father always taught our family how 
very important insurance was. So at my 87 year-old Dad’s insist- 
ence, I obtained an individual health policy with Blue Cross and 
Blue Shield in December 2007. 

In May of 2008, I went to a dermatologist for pimples. A word 
was written on my chart, which was interpreted incorrectly as 
meaning precancerous. In June 2008, I was diagnosed with 
invasive HER-2 genetic breast cancer. This is a very aggressive 
form of breast cancer. In the beginning, I was told I needed imme- 
diate surgery. The doctor said my tumor was two centimeters. Two 
centimeters is like probably that big. The doctor said that he would 
perform a lumpectomy. When you don’t have a large tumor, you get 
to have a lumpectomy. In the beginning, I was going to have a 
lumpectomy. 

Blue Cross and Blue Shield precertified me for the surgery and 
for the hospital stay. The Friday before the Monday I was to have 
my surgery. Blue Cross and Blue Shield called me on the telephone 
and they told me that my chart was red-flagged. What does “red- 
flagged” mean? That means that they are going to investigate you. 
They were doing it due to the dermatologist’s report, due to the 
pimple report. 

My dermatologist called Blue Cross directly to report that this 
was only pimples, it was nothing related to cancer. He asked Blue 
Cross and Blue Shield to please not hold up my cancer surgery. 
Blue Cross and Blue Shield the next day stated that they were 
launching a five-year medical investigation into my medical his- 
tory. This would take approximately two to three months. 

I was frantic. I was totally alone as my family lives in Jackson- 
ville, Florida. The hospital wanted a $30,000 deposit, and I knew 
I could not pay for surgery myself. I had no idea what to do. I had 
no idea where to turn or exactly what to do to get surgery. I met 
a lady who told me, she said, “You need to call your congressman, 
Joe Barton, for help.” 

I called Joe Barton’s office and told him of my situation. Joe Bar- 
ton’s office went to work immediately to help me. The next day I 
received a letter from Blue Cross and Blue Shield permanently 
canceling my insurance, stating that my insurance was canceled 
back to the date that it began. 

Can you imagine having to walk around for months with cancer 
growing inside your body and having no insurance? Joe Barton and 
Christy Townsend worked non-stop every day calling Blue Cross 



21 


and Blue Shield trying to get my insurance reinstated, so that I 
could have my cancer surgery. They had no success at this point. 

I began going everywhere looking for help — county hospitals, 
agencies, foundations, anywhere that I could go where people 
would listen to me tell my story and see if I could get help. I was 
placed on a waiting list. When you have aggressive invasive breast 
cancer, you don’t have time for waiting. My medical records were 
lost three times at the county hospital. The process was unending, 
searching for help. 

The sad thing is Blue Cross and Blue Shield took my high pre- 
miums, and the very, very first time that I ever filed a claim with 
them, the very first time, and was suspected of having cancer, they 
took action against me, searching high and low for a reason to can- 
cel my policy, so they would not have to pay for my cancer. 

A nurse who attends my church, her main job is eight hours a 
day she reads medical charts, and what she does is she looks for 
reasons for Blue Cross and Blue Shield to cancel insurance. When 
she heard about my story, what they had done to me, she came to 
me and she said, “I am so sorry this happened to you.” She said, 
“I am just so sorry.” 

Blue Cross and Blue Shield has control over life and over death. 
People have to be able to count on what they pay for. Blue Cross 
and Blue Shield will do anything to get out of paying for cancer — 
anything. The sad fact is anyone with a catastrophic illness not 
part of a group stands a much higher chance of being canceled and 
left out in the cold without insurance. 

I go to a cancer support group every week, and have since I very 
first found out I had cancer. Four of the girls in my group had their 
insurance canceled. Two of them have had to declare bankruptcy. 
It is very difficult to speak out, because I live in fear every day that 
my insurance will be canceled again. 

I looked everywhere for help, and no one-no one — would help me. 
No help was found until Joe Barton and Christy Townsend, after 
working a very, very long time, got my insurance reinstated. After 
being diagnosed in June 2008 with aggressive invasive breast can- 
cer, I was placed back on the surgeon’s waiting list to get my can- 
cer surgery. My tumor grew from two to seven centimeters. Instead 
of having a small lumpectomy, I had to have a radical double mas- 
tectomy, and I had to have all of my lymph nodes taken out, every 
one of them. 

Delaying cancer treatment only worsens the condition, costing 
more to treat, treatment much more intensive, and treatment not 
being as effective. Also, the outcome is not as good. Once you have 
cancer, you always have cancer. It is a neverending battle. 

I go to chemotherapy every three weeks, and I will do this for 
the next year. Last week I had my second surgery, a two and a half 
hour surgery, which was very hard, to be cut on again. I had that 
just last week. 

Cancer is expensive, and no one wants to pay for it. This is 
America. People who purchase individual policies and pay their 
premiums on time, they deserve to receive what they have paid for. 
I pray with all my heart that no one has go through the sheer 
agony that I have endured for this last year. I did not deserve to 
have my insurance canceled. Blue Cross set out to get rid of me. 



22 


They searched high and they searched low until they found enough 
to cancel me. 

I owe my life to Joe Barton and his staff. I gave up. I completely 
gave up. But they never gave up. They never gave up on helping 
me. Only because of them was I able to get help. That was the only 
reason I got help. If it wasn’t for them, I would be dead today. 

I pray that you will listen to my story and help people like me 
who are powerless against big insurance companies. 

And I thank you so much for what you all are doing. I just ad- 
mire you all so much, and I thank you for listening to me. 

Thank you. 

[The prepared testimony of Robin Beaton follows:] 



23 


Testimony of Robin Beaton 

My name is Robin Beaton. I am 59 years old. I was a Registered Nurse for 30 
years, worked in a hospital. I had group insurance and was in good health. I retired from 
nursing and opened my own small antique business. My father always taught our family 
how very important insurance was. So at my Dad’s insistence I obtained an individual 
policy with Blue Cross and Blue Shield in December 2007. 

In May 2008 I went to a dermatologist for acne. A word was written on my chart 
and interpreted incorrectly as meaning precancerous. 

In June 2008 I was diagnosed with invasive HER-2 genetic breast cancer, this is a 
very aggressive form of breast cancer. In the beginning, I was told I needed immediate 
surgery. The doctor told me you have a lumpectomy if the tumor is small enough. In the 
beginning the doctor said the tumor was 2 centimeters. 

When the surgeons scheduled my surgery I was pre-certified for two days 
hospitalization and surgery. The Friday before the Monday I was scheduled to have my 
surgeiy Blue Cross red flagged my chart due to dermatologist chart. The dermatologist 
called Blue Cross directly to report that I only had acne (pimples) and to please not hold 
up my cancer surgery. Blue Cross called me on the Friday before I was to have cancer 
surgery on Monday and informed me that they were laimching a 5 year medical 
investigation into my medical history and this would take approximately 3 months. 

I was frantic. I was totally alone as my family lives in Jacksonville Florida. The 
hospital wanted a $30,000 deposit, and I knew I could not pay this or for the surgery 
myself. I had no idea what to do or where to turn. I met a lady who told me you need to 
call your congressman Joe Barton for help. 

I called Joe Barton’s office and told them my situation. Joe Barton’s office went 
to work immediately to help me. The next day I received a letter from Blue Cross 
completely cancelling my insurance back to the first date it was issued. Joe Barton and 
Christy Townsend worked non-stop everyday calling Blue Cross Blue Shield to try to get 
my insurance reinstated so I could have my cancer surgery. No success at this point. 

I began going everywhere looking for help, county hospitals. Foundations, 
agencies. Everywhere I went I was placed on a waiting list. When you have aggressive 
invasive cancer you have no time to wait as the cancer grows everyday. I went back to 
the county hospital where they lost my medical records three times. The process was 
unending searching for help for cancer. I did everything to get help. Everywhere you go 
takes time. No help was found until Joe Barton and his staff, after working a very long 
time, got Blue Cross to reinstate my insinance after being diagnosed with aggressive 
invasive breast cancer in June 2008. 1 was then placed back on the surgeons list to receive 
my cancer surgery. I finally was operated on October 2, 2008. My tumor grew from 2 
centimeters all the way to 7 centimeters. Also, 1 had to have both breasts removed and all 
my lymph nodes due to waiting from June to October for treatment. 

Delaying treatment for cancer only worsens the condition, costing more to treat 
and treatment much more intensive. Also the outcome is not as good. 

This is America and people who purchase individual policies and pay their 
premiums deserve to receive what they have paid for. The sad thing is Blue Cross gladly 
took my high premiums and the very first time I filed a claim and was suspected of 



24 


having cancer I was cancelled. Blue Cross searched high and low looking for a reason to 
cancel me when I needed insurance the most 

There is a nurse in my church who works fulltime for Blue Cross. Her sole job is 
to go through medical records searching for reasons to cancel people’s policies. After she 
heard what happened to me she came to me and told me how very sorry she was. 

Blue Cross will do anything to get out of paying for cancer. Another sad fact is 
anyone who has a catastrophic illness who is not part of a group stands a greater chance 
of being cancelled, left out in the cold without insurance. 

Since last June I go to a cancer support group. Four of the women in my group 
had individual policies and had their insurance cancelled due to cancer. Two of the four 
women had to declare bankruptcy. 

I live in fear everyday of my insurance being cancelled again. Blue Cross has 
control over life and over death. 

I go to chemotherapy every 3 weeks for 1 year. Last week I had my second 2 Vi 
hour breast reconstruction surgery. Once you have cancer you always have it. It is a never 
ending battle. I pray no one has to go through the sheer agony I have endured for one 
year. I did not deserve to have my insurance cancelled. 

I owe my life to Joe Barton and his staff I gave up and they never gave up on 
helping me. Only because of them was I able to get help. 

I pray that you will listen to my story and help people like me who are powerless 
against big insurance companies. 


Thank you. 
Robin Beaton 
July 23, 2009 



25 


Mr. Stupak. Thank you, Ms. Beaton. 

We are going to go to questions for this panel. Let me begin. 

Ms. Beaton, when your insurance policy was rescinded, you need- 
ed a mastectomy to save your life, is that correct? 

Ms. Beaton. I needed first a lumpectomy in the very beginning. 
I forgot to say that. When I went to Washington, truly honestly I 
was only going to have to have a lumpectomy, which is where they 
go in and remove the small tumor. But due to the waiting, I had 
to go from a lumpectomy to a double radical mastectomy and the 
lymph nodes. So that is how much my cancer spread. 

Mr. Stupak. So in that delay, you were going for a lumpectomy, 
you ended up having a double mastectomy. 

Ms. Beaton. Yes. Everything. 

Mr. Stupak. What would have happened if Congressman Barton 
was not able to get your insurance reinstated? What would you 
have done? Would you have had the surgery? 

Ms. Beaton. I went to the county hospital, and they placed me 
on their waiting list to get a mastectomy, to get a lumpectomy at 
first and then it turned into a mastectomy. But anyway, at the 
county hospital you have to wait. And to be honest with you, they 
lost my records three times, and they never called me back. In 
other words, I kept calling, and I kept calling. 

Mr. Stupak. So you don’t know how long you would have had to 
wait for the county hospital 

Ms. Beaton. I had to wait — I probably would have waited a long 
time, a lot longer, to get my — I probably wouldn’t have lived. 

Mr. Stupak. You also stated in your opening statement four of 
the women in your cancer support group had their insurance can- 
celed because of cancer. Two of the four had to declare bankruptcy. 

Ms. Beaton. Yes. 

Mr. Stupak. Without using any names here, can you tell us any 
details about their specific interactions with their insurance compa- 
nies? 

Ms. Beaton. Yes. Both of them had individual policies, and both 
of them had paid their premiums. One girl had her insurance for 
almost six years, and the other girl had her insurance for three 
years. And just the moment that she put in the first claim for can- 
cer, they started doing an investigation. It was almost like repeat- 
ing my story over. 

And they did an investigation into her history, and they found 
a little tiny thing she forgot to write down on her application. And 
they rescinded her insurance, canceled her, you know. She had to 
go apply for the Safe Health — both of them were on Safe Health. 

So that is the sad thing — when private insurance gets rid of peo- 
ple, eventually they will get help, but the taxpayer is going to have 
to pay for it. And that is exactly what happened. Both of them were 
on disability and on I guess you would call it Medicaid or Medicare. 
And I have to listen to — every week I hear them talking about the 
terrible time they are having, and they have both lost their house, 
they have lost their home. 

Mr. Stupak. To be on Medicaid, if you are under 65, as all of us 
know up here because we deal with it all the time, you either have 
to spend down and have very little assets or you have to be at least 
disabled for two years before you can even qualify for Medicare. If 



26 


you had to wait two years and become disabled in order to qualify 
for Medicare to pay for your surgery, you probably wouldn’t be here 
today. 

Ms. Beaton. No. One of the girls has brain cancer, and the other 
has breast cancer, which spread to her lungs. So, you know, if I 
went around the room and told you all the people in my cancer 
group and the stories, those are just the four most significant ones. 
But every one of them has had trouble with their insurance compa- 
nies, getting them to pay for stuff, not wanting to pay for scans, 
and just the cost of cancer is just overwhelming. 

Mr. Stupak. Well, you were a nurse, Ms. Raddatz is an attorney, 
Ms. Reilling is a professional person, who is obviously quite suc- 
cessful. We have a rather sophisticated panel here, and it seems 
like each of you had to intervene in a certain way to — probably 
more acuity or more knowledge on how the system works in order 
to get your insurance or get some form of coverage. 

Ms. Raddatz, if you may, that binder right in front of you, the 
brown one. Tab Number 5, I want to ask you a question about your 
brother. Tab 5 is a letter your brother sent to the Illinois Attorney 
General after his health insurance was rescinded, and this was 
right before he was supposed to have the bone marrow transplant, 
correct? 

Ms. Raddatz. That is correct. It was a stem cell transplant, yes. 

Mr. Stupak. In there he writes, “I have been through chemo- 
therapy, and I am being prepared for a stem cell transplant within 
three or four weeks. This is an urgent matter. Please help me so 
I can have my transplant as scheduled. Any delay could threaten 
my life.” 

So in your brother’s case he needed this transplant to save his 
life, is that correct? 

Ms. Raddatz. That is correct. 

Mr. Stupak. And if the rescission stood, in other words if his pol- 
icy was not reinstated, would he have been able to get that trans- 
plant? 

Ms. Raddatz. No. 

Mr. Stupak. So the insurance company’s decision was literally a 
matter of life and death for him? 

Ms. Raddatz. It absolutely was, because there was a very small 
window of opportunity for him to have it. And he couldn’t just go 
shopping for another method of having it. At the last hearing, 
someone brought that up. “Well, how come you didn’t try to get 
some alternative means of treatment?” Well, this is a stem cell 
transplant. There are only certain doctors that do this, and, first 
of all, you prepare for this for months with a very specific protocol. 
It is a very sophisticated procedure. It is a life-saving procedure; 
thank goodness that it exists and that it is saving people’s lives. 

But you have to do it within that window of opportunity. If you 
don’t do it, he would have died. 

Mr. Stupak. So, then, you intervened with the Attorney General, 
and the Attorney General wrote a couple of letters. And finally, 
after the second or third letter, they reinstated his policy, because 
he was denied for something he had no knowledge of, correct? 

Ms. Raddatz. That is absolutely correct. 



27 


Mr. Stupak. ok. And your brother, unfortunately, died. But did 
the stem cell transplant extend his life? 

Ms. Raddatz. It certainly did. If he didn’t receive the stem cell 
transplant, after, like I said, he was told he wasn’t — I mean, imag- 
ine you are told that you are dying, that you only have a few 
months to live, but there is a doctor who can give you a stem cell 
transplant and help you, and he is preparing you for it. 

And so you are somewhat hopeful that your life will be extended, 
and now all of a sudden, no insurance, no stem cell transplant. Yes, 
he had the stem cell transplant eventually, and it extended his life 
approximately three and a half years, which, you know, he did pass 
away just 12 hours short of his 64th birthday on January 6 of this 
year. 

But those three and a half years, to myself and our family, were 
precious. We spent the last 30 days with him in the hospital every 
day, and those last 30 days, for anyone who has ever been in that 
situation, every month — every year, every month, every day, every 
hour is precious, for your loved one and for your family. And it was 
successful. And as a matter of fact, he was preparing to have a sec- 
ond stem cell transplant when he did pass away. 

Mr. Stupak. Thank you. 

Ms. Reilling, you were with Anthem insurance for 20 years? 

Ms. Reilling. Yes. 

Mr. Stupak. And Anthem is really — is our ballpoint insurance 
company? 

Ms. Reilling. Yes. I think they were fairly recent with 

Mr. Stupak. And of those approximately 20 years, 15 you were 
in this single-person group policy? 

Ms. Reilling. Yes. 

Mr. Stupak. Did they ever tell you this single-person group pol- 
icy was coming to an end, they were changing their policies on sin- 
gle-person group policies? 

Ms. Reilling. No. As I said, supposedly, these letters that were 
supposedly sent to me in April and May, but when I did see those, 
which were sent to me in June after the fact from my agent, they 
never said anything about them either. 

Mr. Stupak. Well, were those letters addressed to your agent or 
to you? 

Ms. Reilling. To the agent. They referred to me, but they were 
never sent to me. And they did not say anything about that either. 

Mr. Stupak. So you weren’t rescinded. They failed to renew your 
policy. 

Ms. Reilling. Oh, no, they canceled me. 

Mr. Stupak. Right. 

Ms. Reilling. They said, ‘You will be canceled as of June 30.” 

Mr. Stupak. And then, they offered you a single, individual pol- 
icy, correct? 

Ms. Reilling. Well, yes, because we applied for another policy 
that was — my agent applied for something that would have been a 
reasonable policy, knowing that they were — she knew that they 
would not allow me to have that, because I was going to try to get 
a State policy, which is like a high-risk pool. 

Mr. Stupak. Sure. 



28 


Ms. Reilling. So they — ^but they didn’t allow — they did deny me 
that. 

Mr. Stupak. So that you 

Ms. Reilling. But they didn’t tell me why. 

Mr. Stupak. Did you submit an application for an individual pol- 
icy? 

Ms. Reilling. Yes. 

Mr. Stupak. And you were denied? 

Ms. Reilling. They said, “We would love to give you insurance. 
We are pleased to give you insurance. However, we will not give 
you the insurance that you applied for, the policy that you applied 
for. However, we would be glad to give you this other policy,” which 
is close to $1,300 — well, one that was close to $1,200 a month and 
one that was close to $1,300 a month, which is — with a $2,500 de- 
ductible, which is totally out of my reach. 

And the reasons that they gave for denying me the policy that 
I applied for make no sense whatsoever, and they actually didn’t 
tell me. 

Mr. Stupak. Do you believe they failed to renew your policy be- 
cause they are closing this single-person group policy status they 
had, or do you believe it is because you were sick? 

Ms. Reilling. That makes no sense. I had it for almost 15 years. 
The only thing that — to me, I almost never made any claims. I 
mean, the only thing was is I had this ongoing treatment for my 
back that, as I said, I only went to the doctor every three to four 
months, and that was because I had to do that to get my medica- 
tions renewed. And other than that, I haven’t been sick for as long 
as I can remember. 

Mr. Stupak. So you didn’t cost them any money until the last 
year. 

Ms. Reilling. No. And I totaled it up, and I know that I have 
spent well over $200,000 on my premiums. And even with my sur- 
geries, they are still way ahead. 

And I did want to mention something that had to do with what 
Ms. Beaton said. When she was talking about the fact that if — if 
the insurance companies would approve some of these things that 
are asked for, it would save them money. There was a test that my 
oncologist had me go for, and it actually allowed them — the results 
of that test allowed me to not have chemotherapy, which was a 
wonderful, wonderful thing for me. It is a new test. It is a rel- 
atively new test. It is expensive. It is $2, 000-something. 

However, it saved the company, because had I not had that test, 
I was definitely going to have to have chemotherapy and possibly 
radiation. They would not — no, it was close to $3,000. The insur- 
ance company denied payment for it, and we are still fighting it, 
and this goes back to 2008. They are still denying it. They paid 
something like $750, and they will not pay any more, and we have 
had, you know, time after time we are trying to 

Mr. Stupak. Sure. 

Ms. Reilling [continuing]. Go through that. So when you talked 
about the cost effectiveness, somebody is not paying attention, be- 
cause, yes, that is an expensive test, but it is preventing much 
more expensive treatment. So it doesn’t make any sense. 



29 


And the other thing is is the infection that I have now, that is — 
I can’t see my son, because he is diabetic, and he has an insulin 
pump, which has a needle going into his stomach. So this staph in- 
fection is threatening to him, so I can’t be around my son. I have 
a grandson, who is so afraid of the swine flu, that now when he 
hears about this I can’t see him. 

And I can’t go on with my life, because I can’t treat this infec- 
tion. So it is just — it is crazy that you can’t go on with your life 
if you do not have your insurance. And I am being — you know, I 
never — I didn’t do anything wrong. 

Mr. Stupak. Sure. So it is not just a financial, but as we have 
seen from each of you, the emotional toll it takes on families is tre- 
mendous. And each of you brought forth a form of cancer that your 
brother had or you had personally. 

And in documents obtained by the committee — I said we have 
looked at over 116,000 documents, and it shows that cancer is one 
of the conditions that automatically triggers an investigation by 
these insurance companies, whether it is Assurant or WellPoint or 
any of these. In fact, here is a list of Assurant’s. There is about 
1,400 different codes they use. So once you apply for it, it then trig- 
gers it in their computers. Then, they go through and scour and try 
to find some reason to deny you, because of an expense. And you 
have 1,400 by one company, 2,000 codes by another, so that 

Ms. Reilling. The wording of 

Mr. Stupak [continuing]. Pretty much means you have 

Ms. Reilling. The wording of why they denied me this new pol- 
icy that I tried to apply for, they said “ongoing treatment for” and 
then 

Mr. Stupak. They list it. 

Ms. Reilling [continuing]. They used — well, no, they wouldn’t 
say what it was. They mentioned my back, but of course they have 
been treating me for that for over 20 years. Then, they said — I 
don’t remember the word, it is in papers that I gave you all, but 
conditions, something like “unnamed conditions.” 

Well, the only other condition is the MRSA staph, which I got 
when I was in the hospital 

Mr. Stupak. Right. 

Ms. Reilling [continuing]. And cancer. It seems that it is not 
right for them to deny me that. And the MRSA, the thing that is 
frightening to me, is this has already been eating away at my in- 
sides. I mean, they have done emergency surgeries for that. You 
know, so the longer I go not being able to have a surgery that is 
supposed to help get rid of that, the longer I am at risk of it going 
ahead and just munching its way through to my insides. And it is 
very frightening, not to mention the fact that I can’t do anything, 
and I can’t work and I can’t make a living. 

So, you know, with just the strike of a pen, they can totally ruin 
people’s lives. 

Mr. Stupak. Thank you. 

Mr. Hill, questions, please. 

Mr. Hill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And, again, I want to 
thank the chairman for coming to Indiana to hold these hearings 
to try to get to the bottom of the problems that we are having in 
health care. 



30 


I am going to have to leave around noon, which is a little earlier 
than when the committee is going to have to adjourn, because I am 
traveling back to Washington today, as a member of the Energy 
and Commerce Committee, to carry on discussions about what we 
should be doing with this bill that is before us. 

One of the things that is a given is the fact that when we pass 
health care — and I believe that we will, although it is going to be 
a struggle to do it. The legislative process grinds slowly. But one 
of the things that we will be addressing is preexisting conditions. 
So when we pass health care, we will no longer have to have meet- 
ings like we are having, committee meetings right now, because 
your situation will not be relevant anymore, because preexisting 
conditions will no longer be an issue. 

And that is one of the most important reasons why we need to 
pass health care legislation this year. Everybody has a story to tell. 
I have my own story. My youngest daughter, Libby, has a blood 
disorder. She is 22 years of age, and she is heading off to Michigan 
Medical School. And she very soon is going to be on her own. She 
is on our policy now. 

What will happen to her now that she has this preexisting condi- 
tion when she has to buy her own insurance policy? We are all very 
nervous about it. And so unless we get a company or somebody 
that accepts preexisting conditions, she is going to be out of luck. 
And so we all — the three of us here, and the members of Congress, 
realize the importance of passing legislation that is going to correct 
this inequity. 

Now, having said that, I do have a few questions. Ms. Beaton, 
you say that you obtained an individual policy with Blue Cross and 
Blue Shield in December of 2007. And then, in May 2008, which 
is approximately five months later, you were diagnosed with acne, 
which was precancerous. 

Ms. Beaton. But it wasn’t precancerous. It was just a misinter- 
pretation of a word. But what it did to them is it red-flagged my 
chart. In other words, it brought suspicion on me, because the 
word. The doctor — he was the nicest man. He called Blue Cross 
and Blue Shield directly, and he begged them, he said, “Please,” he 
said, “this is a misunderstanding.” He said, “This lady came to see 
me for pimples or acne.” He said, “She doesn’t have anything re- 
lated to cancer.” 

Mr. Hill. And who said that? 

Ms. Beaton. Dr. Kent Afergutten. 

Mr. Hill. This is your dermatologist? 

Ms. Beaton. Yes, sir. 

Mr. Hill. OK. And then, the insurance company told you on the 
Friday before you were to have cancer surgery that “They were 
launching a five-year medical investigation into my medical his- 
tory, and this would take approximately three months.” 

Ms. Beaton. Yes. 

Mr. Hill. Did that delay your surgery? 

Ms. Beaton. Absolutely. It delayed it from June until October 2, 
because what I had to do is I had to provide them every doctor, 
every hospital, every pharmacy, anything I had that was related to 
my medical history for the last five years. And can you imagine 
having to go back in your medical history for five years? You know. 



31 


you don’t remember things. Because they said if I forgot one thing, 
if there was one thing that I forgot, that I didn’t disclose, that I 
would automatically be canceled. 

So I searched, and, I mean, I went through all of my records. It 
took me like weeks to do that. And I gave them every pharmacy 
I had ever been to, because I don’t use always the same pharmacy, 
I go to different pharmacies. I had to give them every pharmacy, 
every doctor, every hospital, every emergency room I had ever been 
to. And then, what they do is they write — they have to get permis- 
sion from you to get it. They get your medical records, and they go 
through with a fine-tooth comb those medical records. 

So, yes, it took from June when I was supposed to have my sur- 
gery, June, July, August, September, October 2 I had my surgery. 
And just like I said, the most significant thing is, if you can look 
on a picture how big two centimeters is, how small it is, to know 
that I was going to have to have a lumpectomy, and then to have 
to have both of your breasts removed and all of the lymph nodes, 
I will never be able to do anything with this arm again, like have 
blood drawn, have TVs, or anything out of this arm for the rest of 
my life. So, yes, it affected me with all of my heart. 

My tumor grew, it spread, and, you know, you never know, but 
if they could have done my surgery really quickly, perhaps none of 
that would have happened. 

Mr. Hill. OK. Who made the decision to delay your surgery? 

Ms. Beaton. Blue Cross and Blue Shield. 

Mr. Hill. Did the hospital not want to, or the doctors not want 
to, perform the surgery because it was in doubt whether or not you 
had coverage or not? 

Ms. Beaton. Yes. They said that I would have to pay a $30,000 
deposit, and I didn’t have that kind of money, and neither did my 
mother and father. So they wanted a big deposit, and I didn’t have 
it. 

Mr. Hill. So the matter got worse, and then you had to call upon 
Joe Barton to help you get it fixed and he did. 

Ms. Beaton. He did. If you only knew how hard he worked every 
day. He went all the way to the president of Blue Cross and Blue 
Shield. He called them every day on the speakerphone and talked 
to them, and every time they called he would call me and say, “No 
luck. We haven’t had any luck, but we are still trying. We are not 
giving up.” They gave me a report every day, so I wouldn’t give up. 

To be honest with you, I did give up. I gave up. I went to the 
county hospital. I applied to Susan G. Komen Breast Foundation. 
I applied at Promise House. I applied anywhere I could to get help, 
and their funds are limited everywhere you go, because there are 
so many people who have breast cancer these days. So I was very 
limited in the help that I could receive. 

Mr. Hill. OK. 

Ms. Beaton. I was on different waiting lists. 

Mr. Hill. Ms. Raddatz, your brother’s cancer treatment, was it 
delayed at all? 

Ms. Raddatz. It was not delayed, no. 

Mr. Hill. OK. But you had to go through several hoops in order 
to get — make sure that he was going to have coverage. 



32 


Ms. Raddatz. Oh, yes. I mean, when we got the news that it was 
canceled, we were just horrified. I can’t even tell you how upsetting 
that was, because it was all scheduled. I mean, it was ready to be 
scheduled — excuse me — but he had done all of the protocols, he was 
ready to go. And so I literally was not working at my law practice 
for weeks. I was at my office, but daily I was working on solving 
my brother’s health insurance rescission problem. And I was — I am 
attorney, and I still didn’t know how to solve it straight up. 

Mr. Hill. Right. 

Ms. Raddatz. It took me several weeks, and many, many phone 
calls to other attorneys, judges, experts, and finally we made it to 
our Attorney General’s office. And I understand in Illinois we are 
very lucky to have the Health Services Section in our Attorney 
General’s office, Lisa Madigan’s office. There are many states that 
do not have those services available for citizens to go to. 

And even if it is available, most people, when they get that type 
of news, they don’t know what to do. They are sick. Their spirits 
are low. A lot of them are not working. They don’t know what to 
do, and they don’t know where to turn. And many of these people 
just give up. 

Mr. Hill. OK. Ms. Reilling, in reading through your testimony 
and listening to your testimony, I am making the assumption that 
Anthem did pay for some of your treatment. 

Ms. Reilling. Yes. 

Mr. Hill. And that somewhere midway through all of your treat- 
ments they decided to cancel you. 

Ms. Reilling. Yes. 

Mr. Hill. And the reason that they gave for canceling you is that 
the policy was not going to be offered anymore. 

Ms. Reilling. Well, to my knowledge, I was not given any rea- 
son, because I never received the letters that they supposedly sent. 
So I just suddenly got a letter on around June 1 that said, ‘Your 
policy will be ending — we will be canceling your policy as of June 
30.” 

Mr. Hill. OK. 

Ms. Reilling. I had no explanation. 

Mr. Hill. Do you have insurance now? 

Ms. Reilling. No. 

Mr. Hill. None at all. 

Ms. Reilling. No. 

Mr. Hill. Do all three of you feel like that the insurance compa- 
nies were manipulating the reasons as to deny coverage to you all? 

Ms. Beaton. Absolutely. 

Mr. Hill. Now, that is an opinion of course. 

Ms. Beaton. Absolutely. 

Mr. Hill. But you all three feel that way. And, Ms. Beaton, do 
you have any insurance coverage now? 

Ms. Beaton. I only have insurance because of one reason. 

Mr. Hill. Joe Barton. 

Ms. Beaton. That is the only reason. 

Mr. Hill. OK. Thank you. 

Ms. Beaton. They didn’t want to give me back my insurance. He 
told me that — I had never met Mr. Barton. I met him for the very 
first time in Washington. He helped me not even knowing who I 



33 


was, just because I was a constituent in his area. And the first 
time I met him I just broke down and said, “I could never thank 
you enough for helping me.” But he went all the way to the top and 
he told me, he said, “They did not want to reinstate you.” He said, 
“I really had to fight them.” He told me that. 

Ms. Raddatz. May I respond? 

Mr. Hill. Sure, Ms. Raddatz. 

Ms. Raddatz. Yes. Not only — we also know after our last hearing 
in Washington that now, knowing all of this information, they still 
agree that they will continue their practices of rescinding. So it 
didn’t really matter that we already — Ms. Beaton and myself told 
these stories, and many other stories were told to them in person 
in Washington, D.C. last month, they still admitted that they 
would just continue those practices. 

So, you know, until Congress stops them from doing it, they are 
just going to keep going on, because they know it is legal right now 
for them to do that. It is legal for them to rescind people who are 
dying and take away their insurance policies after good American 
citizens have paid their hard-working dollars. In my brother’s case, 
he was paying $900 a month for his policy. And it is OK for them 
to do that. 

And not only have they done it, but they came right out in Con- 
gress and in front of the whole world on C-SPAN and said, “We 
are just going to keep doing it.” So they are basically saying, “Look, 
Congress, either stop us from doing it or we are just going to keep 
doing it, because that is what we do. We make our — that is how 
we make our living. We make our livings by rescinding people and 
making more money.” 

Mr. Stupak. That is a good point. 

And as Congressman Hill indicated, he is going to have to leave 
a little early here, because he has got to go back. We are trying 
to do health insurance — or I should say health coverage for all 
Americans through our Energy and Commerce Committee. 

Congressman Yarmuth, who is going to be going back, is going 
to ask questions next. They already passed it through Ways and 
Means Committee, but the Energy and Commerce Committee is 
the main policy, health policy for the Congress, and we have been 
working on this. 

We were actually supposed to do one of these hearings last week, 
as you know, Ms. Raddatz, in Chicago. We had to cancel because 
of health care meetings. We thought about canceling this one, but 
I couldn’t do that twice to you, so we kept this hearing going. I will 
stay and keep this hearing going. I know Mr. Hill is going to go 
back and protect our interest, and we have a lot of questions. 

If my memory serves me correct, it is Section 162 which would 
prevent rescissions without an independent third-party review. But 
I think after this hearing, and after our next panel, I think we 
have to go even further and put a time limit as to when that re- 
view would take place, so many days, and a few other things. So 
these hearings not only helps us, but, unfortunately, it is a very 
busy time for all of us with health care. 

And, Congressman Hill, by the end of the year I think you will 
see at least enactment of a national health insurance plan to cover 
all Americans, where preexisting injuries would not be a condition 



34 


to eliminate people’s coverage, and will do something with this re- 
scission. 

But with that, let me turn it to Congressman Yarmuth for ques- 
tions, please. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Thanks, Mr. Chairman. I am just going to ask a 
couple of brief questions. 

Ms. Beaton, you talked about your cancer support group and the 
four women who are with you in that, and two of them have gone 
bankrupt and they had had their coverage canceled. Were the situ- 
ations similar? Were these all cases of rescission as far as you 
know? 

Ms. Beaton. Yes, every one of them was. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Were they able to — are they currently insured at 
all? They are not insured? 

Ms. Beaton. Not at all. They all are on state assistance, every 
one of them. Every one of — the one girl lost her house, and now she 
is living in government-subsidized housing. She had a nice house, 
and she lost her house. She lost everything and has to live in gov- 
ernment housing now. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Did they receive their treatment in any way, or 
were they — did they rely on charitable care or something? 

Ms. Beaton. They relied on charitable care, which is like mine. 
They didn’t get immediate care; they had to wait. And when you 
go through a county hospital around Dallas, there are so many peo- 
ple there, you wouldn’t even believe. Every time you go to a clinic 
appointment it is the whole day. You go — no matter if you have an 
8:00 appointment, you wait all day long with a room just like this 
big just full of people. You can’t even imagine how long you have 
to wait. 

And then, when you get in a room, you finally think you are 
going to get to see the doctor, well, ^ess what, you wait another 
couple of hours. So it is an all-day thing. There is no way you can 
work. There is no way you can keep a regular job or do regular 
things, because your whole time is going to waiting to see a doctor. 
It is a very bad situation. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Congressman Barton was able to keep your cov- 
erage in force. Has there been a change in your premium rates 
since then? 

Ms. Beaton. Yes, they went up quite a bit. They went up. They 
said it wasn’t anything related to that. They said that they were 
going up on everybody’s policy, but they sent me a letter, and, yes, 
they went up. Right away they went up. 

Mr. Yarmuth. How much did they go up, do you remember? 

Ms. Beaton. It was like $200 a month. And it was already a real 
high premium, because of my age. I am 59. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Right. 

Ms. Beaton. So to me it was a lot of money. It was all I could 
do. And to be honest with you, I never would have — when Mr. Bar- 
ton called and told me my insurance was reinstituted, you know 
what I told him? I said, “I don’t want it. I don’t want it back.” I 
said, “I have lost my trust.” 

And by that time, I had applied to a state program, and I had 
gotten accepted for the state program where they pay 100 percent 
for women with breast and cervical cancer, and I told him, I said. 



35 


“I don’t want Blue Cross and Blue Shield back.” I said, “Why 
should I want them back? What they did to me, what they cost 
me.” But he told me, he said, “You will never be able to have insur- 
ance again. You will be uninsurable because of the cancer.” He 
said, “Take it back.” He said, “It is your last chance in your life 
to get regular insurance.” 

So because of his great wisdom, I only took it back because of 
him, because I lost every bit of my trust. I hated them. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Ms. Reilling, we have a copy of a letter that you 
received on July 1 of this year, just a few weeks ago, offering you 
the alternative individual coverage, and stipulating the reasons 
that you were denied coverage and denied your application, which 
I assume was to resume your one-person group insurance coverage, 
is that right? 

Ms. Reilling. No. Actually, my agent, she just kind of ignored 
that whole thing and acted like — she is the one who told me that 
Anthem was discontinuing one-person groups. I never heard it — I 
have never heard it from the company, so she applied 

Mr. Yarmuth. For an individual policy. 

Ms. Reilling [continuing]. For an individual policy, but one that 
was close to what I was paying, and that was what they denied. 

Mr. Yarmuth. And they denied that. 

Ms. Reilling. And they offered me one that was 

Mr. Yarmuth. One that was more expensive and mentioned 

Ms. Reilling. A whole lot more expensive. 

Mr. Yarmuth [continuing]. The preexisting conditions and your 
treatment for protected health information, it says in the letter 

Ms. Reilling. Yes. 

Mr. Yarmuth [continuing]. Under Tab 23. I understand why 
they didn’t want to put it in the letter, because that — it is your per- 
sonal information, even though to you it might have not been a 
congressional 

Ms. Reilling. But the only 

Mr. Yarmuth [continuing]. So they want to protect you. 

Ms. Reilling [continuing]. Thing it could be, though, is the can- 
cer and the MRSA. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Right. 

Ms. Reilling. Because that is the only thing I have been treated 
for. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Right. Do you know if this offer — the offer that 
they made, whether there would be any exclusions as to coverage? 

Ms. Reilling. No, because, as I said, I didn’t even 

Mr. Yarmuth. Couldn’t afford it anyway. 

Ms. Reilling. I didn’t know about any of this, and my agent just 
turned it down. And, actually, she was only applying for it as a 
means to getting me to apply for Kentucky Access, which re- 
quired — it wasn’t enough for me to just have been dropped by the 
insurance company, I had to have applied and been denied, which 
is why I have gone so long without insurance. 

However, when I found out what the rates are for Kentucky Ac- 
cess, I can’t afford those either. It is $800 a month, and that is a 
public — I mean, a State program. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Right. OK. Thank you very much. 



36 


Thanks to all of you for telling your stories. They were, again, 
very important in putting a face on the types of situations that we 
are trying to correct and on efforts to reform health care delivery 
and insurance in the country. Appreciate it. 

I yield back. Thanks, Mr. Chairman. 

Mr. Stupak. Thanks, Mr. Yarmuth. 

We had asked Assurant Health Insurance to come. They refused. 
I do not want to use the subpoena power, even though this com- 
mittee has it. But, Ms. Raddatz, that was your brother’s health in- 
surance, but I want to ask a question anyway, if I could. 

Your brother’s individual health policy was Fortis, which is really 
Assurant Health. Is that right? 

Ms. Raddatz. Yes, that is correct. 

Mr. Stupak. OK. I would like to play a television ad that 
Assurant is running across the country right now and get your re- 
action to it. Would you show us that ad, please? 

[Video presentation begins.] 

“Female Speaker: My employer doesn’t offer medical insurance. 
So we needed an affordable health plan that fit our family’s needs. 

Female Speaker: When I started my own business, I didn’t think 
I could afford health insurance. I just wanted to be able to see my 
personal doctor once a year. 

Male Speaker: When I retired, we were years away from Medi- 
care. 

Female Speaker: But we still needed protection. What if some- 
thing serious happened? 

Female Speaker: So a friend recommended Assurant Health. We 
were able to protect our entire family. They even have a dental 
plan. 

Female Speaker: I saved hundreds of dollars by only paying for 
benefits I want. I even got a 50 percent discount just for being 
healthy. 

Male Speaker: We have got $6 million in medical coverage, and 
can even see the specialist we choose. 

Female Speaker: Without a referral. 

Male Speaker: For over 100 years, Assurant Health has been 
meeting the needs of individuals like you. Plans start under $100 
per month. 

Male Speaker: Call now and speak with your local agent, Carl 
Heath, Jr., for your no obligation quote. Call 1-410-288-0772 
now.” 

Mr. Stupak. In this ad, it shows people who might need insur- 
ance, as they say in the ad, “like you,” a family, small business 
owner, retiree, and they all look relatively healthy. But what the 
ad never mentions is that Assurant will not provide insurance to 
people with preexisting conditions, because these people get too ex- 
pensive and it would reduce their profits. 

So let me ask you, from your experience, does this company have 
an interest in keeping sick policyholders on its rolls? Ms. Raddatz? 

Ms. Raddatz. In keeping sick policyholders? 

Mr. Stupak. Yes. 

Ms. Raddatz. Absolutely not. All they want are healthy people, 
so that they can collect insurance premiums and not have to pay 
out any claims. They don’t want sick people. When you become 



37 


sick, they cancel and rescind your policy. And so as they state in 
the commercial, how dare they? What if something serious hap- 
pens? Something did serious happen to my brother, and they re- 
scinded him. 

Mr. Stupak. Let me show you another clip on another Assurant 
TV ad. 

[Video presentation begins.] 

“Male Speaker: Unlike other health insurance companies that 
focus on corporations and treat everyone the same, Assurant 
Health is there for the individual. So if you need health insurance, 
call the number on your screen, visit our Web site, or contact your 
local agent. 

Male Speaker: Call now to find out” 

Mr. Stupak. They say they are not treating everyone the same, 
and they are there for the individual. Were they there for your 
brother Otto? 

Ms. Raddatz. Absolutely not. 

Mr. Stupak. Do you find these ads misleading about how 
Assurant covers individuals? 

Ms. Raddatz. I would say they are misleading, they are upset- 
ting. I would say to people, “Run, do not buy insurance with a com- 
pany that doesn’t stand behind the people that need them.” 

Mr. Stupak. And as I said, there is 1,400 reasons or excuses why 
they cancel you once you become sick. 

Let me ask you, Mr. Baron, Hill, do you have any further ques- 
tions? 

Ms. Beaton. Can I say something real quick? 

Mr. Stupak. One minute. 

Mr. Hill, questions? 

Mr. Hill. The only question I might have is — maybe this is for 
the representatives from the insurance companies, but my guess is 
that once you are denied insurance coverage, it is almost impos- 
sible for another insurance company to pick you up. I don’t know 
if you have had that experience or not, Ms. Beaton. I know you 

Ms. Beaton. They never pick you up. Never. Never. 

Mr. Hill. There is just like a zero chance for you being able to 
get coverage. 

Ms. Beaton. Right. Have you ever been refused insurance? They 
ask that on the questionnaire. It is one of the questions they ask 
you. If you have ever been refused insurance or canceled, they just 
kick you right out. 

Mr. Hill. OK. 

Ms. Beaton. All I wanted to say is I admire you so much for get- 
ting those commercials. I wish you would have brought the Texas 
Blue Skies Blue Cross/Blue Shield commercial that has been airing 
every day, about 15 times a day. I want to just puke every time 
I hear it. They have you humming a little tune, you know, about 
America and blue skies and everything is wonderful, “We will al- 
ways be here for you,” and every time I listen to that commercial 
on TV, how they are spending millions of dollars for those commer- 
cials, I just say — I want to say, “You are lying. You are liars.” 

You know, they are spending all that money on Blue Skies com- 
mercials. Sometime you can get one of those Blue Skies’ commer- 



38 


cials for Blue Cross/Blue Shield and it will make you sick to your 
stomach. 

Mr. Stupak. Well, there is no doubt the — from 2000 to 2007, ac- 
cording to SEC filings, the profits for insurance companies has 
gone from $2.4 billion to $12.9 billion. That is a 428 percent in- 
crease during the last seven years. And we see it on the backs of 
people like you, and so hopefully we do get national health care, 
so we don’t have to worry about that. 

Let me, once again, thank this panel for your heartfelt testimony. 
Thank you for traveling here at your expense to be with us. 

Ms. Beaton, have a safe trip back to Texas; Ms. Raddatz, back 
to Illinois; and, Ms. Reilling, back to Kentucky. Thank you very 
much for being here. 

Ms. Raddatz. Thank you all for caring enough to do this. Thank 
you so much. 

Mr. Stupak. Thank you. We will dismiss this panel. 

Ms. Reilling. Thank you. 

Ms. Beaton. Thank you. 

Mr. Stupak. I would now like to call our second panel of wit- 
nesses. On our second panel we have Mr. Richard Collins, who is 
the Chief Executive Officer at Golden Rule Insurance Company, 
which is owned by UnitedHealth Group; Mr. Brian Sassi, who is 
Chief Executive Officer for Consumer Business at WellPoint, Incor- 
porated; Ms. Carol Cutter, who is the Commissioner of the Indiana 
Department of Insurance; Professor Eleanor Kinney, who is a Pro- 
fessor of Law at Indiana IJniversity in Indianapolis. 

Thank each and every one of you for coming and for adding to 
today’s hearing. As I told the last panel, it is the policy of this 
Committee to take all testimony under oath. Please be advised you 
have the right under the rules of the House to be advised by coun- 
sel during your testimony. If you wish to be represented by coun- 
sel? 

[Witness responses.] 

Mr. Stupak. Let the record reflect each indicated they did not 
wish to be represented by counsel at this time. If at any time dur- 
ing your testimony you wish to consult with counsel, you can. 
Counsel cannot testify, but you can consult with them before an- 
swering a question. 

Since you are all standing, please raise your right hand and take 
the oath. 

[Witnesses sworn.] 

Mr. Stupak. Let the record reflect that the witnesses replied in 
the affirmative. You are now under oath. We will now hear your 
5-minute opening statement. You may submit a longer statement, 
extra documents, for inclusion in the official hearing record. 

Mr. Collins, if you don’t mind, we will start with you, go from 
my left to right. 

Mr. Collins. Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. 

Mr. Stupak. Thank you. 



39 


STATEMENTS OF RICHARD COLLINS, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFI- 
CER, GOLDEN RULE INSURANCE COMPANY, UNITEDHEALTH 
GROUP; BRIAN A. SASSI, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER, CONSUMER BUSINESS, WELLPOINT, INC.; CAROL 
CUTTER, COMMISSIONER, INDIANA DEPARTMENT OF INSUR- 
ANCE; AND ELEANOR KINNEY, CO-DIRECTOR, WILLIAM S. 
AND CHRISTINE S. HALL CENTER FOR LAW AND HEALTH, IN- 
DIANA UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW 

STATEMENT OF RICHARD COLLINS 

Mr. Collins. Chairman Stupak, Congressman Hill, Congressman 
Yarmuth, and members of the Subcommittee, thank you for invit- 
ing me today as we continue our dialogue on individual health in- 
surance. 

My name is Richard Collins. And I am the CEO of Golden Rule 
Insurance Company, a UnitedHealth Group business that provides 
health insurance policies to individuals and their families. Golden 
Rule is headquartered in Indianapolis and employs 750 individuals 
in the State of Indiana. It has been offering this important cov- 
erage option for more than 60 years. 

As part of our continuing commitment to the outstanding work- 
force of the State of Indiana, we recently completed the initial 
phase of a new 24,000-square foot, state-of-the-art customer care 
center in Vincennes. The center currently employs 90 individuals 
with the capacity for 300 additional full or part-time jobs. 

Our company mission is to improve the health and well-being of 
all Americans. In the individual insurance market, we accomplish 
this by offering innovative and affordable products that meet the 
diverse health care and financial needs of our customers. 

We also have a responsibility to treat all of our customers fairly, 
and I can assure you we take this responsibility very seriously. In 
our current system of health care delivery, the individual insurance 
market operates primarily for families who do not have access to 
group coverage or to government health benefit plans, such as 
Medicare. 

Unfortunately and for a variety of reasons, some individuals 
choose not to purchase private health insurance until they have a 
significant health event. This decision not only has an enormous 
physical and financial impact on these individuals and their fami- 
lies but raises the cost of health care for everyone. 

We have long advocated that this country needs comprehensive 
health insurance reform that includes modernizing the delivery 
system, tackling the fundamental drivers of health care cost 
growth, strengthening employer-based coverage, and providing 
well-targeted support for low and middle-income families. 

To be effective, we believe modernization of the individual insur- 
ance market needs to contain all of the following elements. First, 
individuals must be required to obtain and maintain health insur- 
ance coverage so that everyone participates in both the benefits 
and the costs of the system. 

Second, insurers should be able to set rates within the limited 
parameters of age, geography, family size, and benefit design just 
as they do in the group insurance market. However, let me empha- 
size this point. Rates should not vary based on health status, and 



40 


coverage should be guaranteed, regardless of preexisting conditions 
for those that maintain continuous coverage. 

Third, low and middle-income families should receive some form 
of subsidy to ensure that they have access to the same care as all 
Americans. 

Fourth, insurers should be able to offer a wide spectrum of plan 
designs to allow American families the flexibility to choose a plan 
that fits their budget. And, lastly, the tax treatment for individual 
insurance premiums should be on par with employer-sponsored 
coverage. 

Until comprehensive reform is achieved, we believe that the med- 
ical underwriting of individual insurance policies will continue to 
be necessary. If these changes are instituted, most of the reasons 
for individual medical underwriting of individual health insurance 
as well as most of the reasons that individual policies are rescinded 
or terminated would cease to exist. 

As you know, the practice of rescission has been recognized by 
the laws of virtually every state. Rescission is an unfortunate but 
necessary recourse in the event of a material and at times inten- 
tional or fraudulent misstatement or omission on an insurance ap- 
plication. 

Our use of rescission is rare. Less than one-half of 1 percent of 
all of individual insurance contracts in 2008 were terminated or re- 
scinded. And in each case the affected customer was afforded the 
right to appeal. Our practice is to rescind coverage only in the 
event an applicant made a knowing material misrepresentation or 
omission on the application for insurance. 

In the event that we determine it is necessary to rescind cov- 
erage after a thorough investigation of the facts and in compliance 
with existing stare laws and regulations, we follow practices and 
procedures designed to ensure a fair and transparent process for 
the individual. 

Under our current system, failure to act on these cases would be 
fundamentally unfair to individuals and working families that play 
by the rules, and it would further limit our ability to provide qual- 
ity and affordable health care for every American. And affordability 
is by far the biggest barrier to access. 

We look forward to working with the Subcommittee and the Con- 
gress and state and federal regulators on ways to continue to ex- 
pand access to affordable health insurance coverage in the indi- 
vidual market. Thank you. 

[The prepared statement of Richard Collins follows:] 



41 


TESTIMONY OF RICHARB A. COLLINS 
BEFORE THE COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE 
SUBCOMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND INVESTIGATIONS 
UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
NEW ALBANY, INDIANA 
JULY 27, 2009 


Chairman Stapak, Ranking Member Walden, Congressman Hill and members of the 
subcommittee, thank you for inviting me to testify today as we continue our dialogue on 
the individual insurance market. My name is Richard Collins, and I am the CEO of 
Golden Rule Insurance Company, a UnitedHealth Group business that provides health 
insurance policies to individuals and their families. 

Golden Rule, which is headquartered in Indianapolis and employs 750 individuals in the 
state of Indiana, has been offering this important coverage option for more than 60 years. 
Reflective of our continuing commitment to the state, w'e recently completed the initial 
phase of a new 24,000-square foot, state-of-the-art ctistomer care center in Vincennes. 
The center currently employs 90 individuals with the capacity for 400 full- and part-time 
employees. 

Our company mission is to improve the health and well being of all Americans. In the 
individual insurance market we accomplish this mission by offering innovative and 
affordable products that meet the diverse health care and financial needs of our 
customers. We also have a responsibility to treat all of our members fairly and 1 can 
assure you we take this responsibility very seriously. 

In our current system of health care delivery, the individual insurance market operates 
primarily for families who do not have access to group coverage or to government health 
benefit plans. Unfortunately, for a variety of reasons some individuals choose not to 
purchase private health insurance until they have a significant health event. This decision 



42 


not only has an enormous physical and financial impact on these individuals and their 
families, but raises the cost of health care for everyone. 

We have long advocated that our country needs comprehensive health reform that 
includes modernizing our delivery system, tackling the fundamental drivers of health care 
cost growth, strengthening employer-based coverage, and providing well-targeted support 
for low-income families. Further, these fundamental elements of reform should be 
pursued alongside the constructive changes to the individual insurance market that we, 
along with our industry partners, have proposed. 

To be effective, we believe modernization of the individual insurance market needs to 
contain all of the following elements. 

• First, individuals must be required to obtain and maintain health coverage so that 
everyone participates in both the benefits and the costs of the system. 

• Second, insurers should be able to set rates within the limited parameters of age, 
geography, family size, and benefit design - just as they do in the group insurance 
market. Similarly, individuals should be permitted to take advantage of lower 
rates if they make healthy lifestyle choices. However, rates should not vaiy based 
on health status, and coverage should be guaranteed, regardless of pre-existing 
medical conditions for those that maintain continuous coverage. 

• Third, low- and middle-income families should receive some form of subsidy to 
ensure that they have access to the same care as all other Americans. 

• Fourth, insurers should be able to offer a wide spectrum of plan designs to allow 
American families the flexibility to choose a plan that fits their budget. 

• And lastly, the tax treatment of individual insurance premiums should be on par 
with that for employer-sponsored coverage. 

Until comprehensive reform is achieved, we believe that the medical underwriting of 
individual insurance policies will continue to be necessary. If these changes are 
instituted, most of the reasons for individual medical underwriting of health insurance - 



43 


as well as most of the reasons that individual policies are rescinded or terminated - would 
cease to exist 

As you know, the practice of rescission has long been recognized by the laws of virtually 
every state. Rescission is an unfortunate but necessary recourse in the event of a material 
- and at times intentional or fraudulent - misstatement or omission in an insurance 
application. Under our cujxent system, failure to act on these cases would be 
fundamentally unfair to individuals and working families that play by the rules and it 
would fiirtber limit our ability to provide quality and affordable health care for every 
American. 

In the event that we determine it is necessary to rescind coverage after a thorough 
investigation of the facts and in compliance with existing state laws and regulations, we 
follow practices and procedures designed to ensure a fair and transparent process for the 
individual. Our practice is to rescind coverage only in the event an applicant made a 
knowing material misrepresentation or omission on the application for insurance. 

Our use of rescission is rare. Less than one half of one percent of all of our individual 
insurance contracts in 2008 were terminated or rescinded. And in each case the affected 
customer was afforded the right to appeal. 

We look forward to working with this subcommittee, the Congress and state and federal 
regulators on ways to continue to expand access to affordable health insurance coverage 
in the individual market. Thank you. 



44 


Mr. Stupak. Thank you. 

Mr. Sassi, your opening statement, please, sir? 

STATEMENT OF BRIAN SASSI 

Mr. Sassi. Thank you Chairman Stupak and members of the 
Committee for inviting me to testify before you today. I am Brian 
Sassi. And I am President and CEO of the Consumer Division of 
WellPoint. 

There seems to be a lot of confusion about why an insurance 
company might rescind a policy. Some have said that insurers re- 
scind policies because they don’t feel like paying when someone 
gets sick. This is simply not true. The decision is about controlling 
corporate fraud and material misrepresentations that contribute to 
spiraling health care costs. 

At WellPoint, we do not rescind a policy coverage just because 
someone on the policy gets sick. My company employs over 42,000 
people nationwide: 4,500 here in Indiana and 1,300 across the river 
in Kentucky. For anyone to suggest that I or my fellow associates, 
each of us with our own personal experiences with illness, would 
rescind a person’s coverage just because he or she got sick is an 
unfair accusation. I hope, Mr. Chairman, that as you complete your 
inquiry, you will be able to help correct this misperception. 

We take contract rescissions very seriously because we under- 
stand the impact these decisions can have on families and individ- 
uals. We have put in place a thorough process with multiple steps 
to ensure that we are as fair and as accurate as we can be in mak- 
ing these difficult decisions. And to be clear, we do not rescind poli- 
cies based on a condition for which the policyholder was unaware 
at the time that he or she had applied for coverage. 

I want to emphasize that rescission is about controlling fraud 
and material misrepresentations that contribute to spiraling health 
care costs. By some estimates, health care fraud in the U.S. ex- 
ceeds $100 billion per year, an amount large enough to pay for cov- 
ering nearly half of the 47 million uninsured in this country. 

Rescission is one tool employed by WellPoint and other health in- 
surers to protect the vast majority of policyholders who provide ac- 
curate and complete information from subsidizing the costs for 
those who do not. The bottom line is that rescission is about com- 
bating costs driven by these issues. 

If we fail to address fraud and material misrepresentation, the 
cost of coverage would increase, making coverage less affordable for 
existing and future individual policyholders. I would like to put 
this issue in context. 

While most people in this country who are under the age of 65 
receive coverage through their employers, 15 million Americans 
purchase coverage in the voluntary individual market. In a market 
where individuals can choose to purchase insurance at any time, 
health insurers must medically underwrite applicants for current 
health risk. 

If an individual buys health coverage only when he or she needs 
health care services, the system cannot be sustained. While we un- 
derstand and appreciate that this is a critical personal issue, indi- 
vidual market rescission impacts an extremely small share of the 
individual market membership. 



45 


In our experience, we believe that more than 99 percent of all ap- 
plicants for individual coverage provide accurate and complete in- 
formation. In fact, as a percentage of new individual market enroll- 
ment during 2008, we rescinded only one-tenth of 1 percent of the 
policies that year. 

Here in Indiana, the issue of rescission in health insurance also 
affects an extremely small number of individuals. In 2008, we en- 
rolled over 66,000 new individual market members but rescinded 
only 116 individuals. 

Rescission is a longstanding insurance contract remedy in Amer- 
ica. The concerns regarding rescission surfaced in the California 
media in 2006, generating the public concern which we are dis- 
cussing here today. Our main point today is the same as it was 
then. A voluntary insurance market for health insurance requires 
that we protect our members from costs associated with fraud and 
material misrepresentations. Otherwise the market cannot be sus- 
tained. 

In response to the public concern over the practice of rescissions, 
WellPoint in 2006 undertook a thorough review of our policies and 
procedures. Following that review, WellPoint was the first insurer 
to announce the establishment of a variety of robust consumer pro- 
tections that ensure rescissions are handled as accurately and as 
appropriately as possible. 

These protections include: creating an application review com- 
mittee, which includes a physician that makes rescission decisions; 
two, establishing a single point of contact for members undergoing 
a rescission investigation; and, three, establishing an appeal proc- 
ess for applicants who disagree with our original determination 
which includes a review by an application review committee not in- 
volved in the initial decision. And in 2008, WellPoint was the first 
in the industry to offer a binding, external, independent third party 
review process for rescissions. We have put all of these protections 
in place with multiple steps because we cover millions of Ameri- 
cans and want to be as fair and as accurate as we can be. 

In response to policy-maker interest in enacting consumer protec- 
tions related to rescission, WellPoint is proposing a set of rescission 
regulations with new consumer protections. I have outlined these 
in my written testimony. 

In addition, the health insurance industry has proposed a set of 
comprehensive and interrelated reforms to the individual health in- 
surance market as a whole. The centerpiece of this proposal is the 
elimination of medical underwriting combined with an effective and 
enforceable personal coverage requirement. This would render the 
practice of rescission unnecessary. 

We appreciate that the health care reform bills under consider- 
ation in the House envision such a system. However, unless Con- 
gress creates a strong and effective personal coverage requirement 
and allows younger individuals to receive sufficient discounts, 
many only buy coverage when they need services, which will dra- 
matically drive up the costs for everyone. 

As currently written, the health care legislation under consider- 
ation in the House does not accomplish this. We would welcome the 
opportunity to work with you to find common ground on this issue 
to make certain that these insurance market reforms achieve the 



46 


object so that we can make quality, affordable health coverage 
available for all Americans. 

Thank you for the opportunity to discuss this issue and these 
proposals with you. I look forward to your questions. 

[The prepared statement of Brian Sassi follows:] 



47 


Testimony of Brian A. Sassi 
President and C.E.O., Consumer Business 
WellPoint, Inc. 

United States House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce 
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 
New Albany, IN Field Hearing 

July 27, 2009 
(Written Submission) 


1 



48 


Thank you Chairman Stupak, and Congressman Hill for inviting me to testify before you today. 

There seems to be a lot of confusion about why an insurance company might rescind a policy. I 
recently heard a legislator say insurers rescind policies "because they don't feel like paying for 
your illness." Mr. Chairman, that is simply not true. 

At WellPoint, we do not rescind a policyholder's coverage just because someone on the policy 
gets sick, Mr. Chairman, my company employs over 42,000 people nationwide - 4,500 here in 
Indiana, and 1,300 across the river in Kentucky. For anyone to suggest that I or my fellow 
associates - each of us with our own personal experiences with illness - would rescind a person's 
coverage just because he or she got sick is an unfounded and unfair accusation. And I hope, Mr. 
Chairman, that as you complete your inquiry, you'll be able to help correct this misperception. 

We take contract rescissions veiy seriously because we understand the impact these decisions 
can have on individuals and families. We have put in place a thorough process with multiple 
steps to ensure that we are as fair and as accurate as we can be in making these difficult 
decisions. And to be clear, we do not rescind policies based on a condition of which the 
policyholder was unaware at the time he or she applied for coverage. 

I want to emphasize that rescission is about stopping fraud and material misrepresentations that 
contribute to spiraling health care costs. By some estimates, health care fraud in the U.S. 
exceeds $100 billion per year,' an amount large enough to pay for covering nearly half of the 47 
million uninsured. Rescission is one tool employed by WellPoint and other health insurers to 
protect the vast majority of policyholders who provide accurate and complete information from 
subsidizing the costs for those who do not. The bottom line is that rescission is about combating 
cost driven by these issues. If we fail to address fraud and material misrepresentation, the cost of 
coverage would increase, making coverage less affordable for existing and future individual 
policyholders. 

I would like to put this issue in context. While most people who are under the age of 65 receive 
coverage through their employers, some 15 million Americans purchase coverage in the 


Sparrow, Malcolm. License to Steal. 


2 



49 


voluntary individual market. In a market where individuals can choose to purchase insurance at 
any time, health insurers must medically imderwrite applicants for current health risk. If an 
individual buys health coverage only when he or she- needs health care services, the system 
cannot be sustained. 

While we understand and appreciate that this is a critical personal issue, individual market 
rescission impacts an extremely small share of the individual market membership. In our 
experience, we believe that more than 99 percent of all applicants for individual coverage 
provide accurate and complete infonnation. In fact, as a percentage of new individual market 
enrollment during 2008, we rescinded only one-tenth of one percent of the policies that year. 

• During 2008, we enrolled approximately 873,000 new individual market members 
and rescinded 1,275 contracts, approximately one tenth of a percent of the new 
enrollment (.001). 

• During the first four months of 2009, we enrolled approximately 283,000 new 
individual market members and rescinded 303 contracts, again approximately one 
tenth of a percent of new enrollment (.001). 

Here in Indiana, the issue of rescission in health insurance also affects an extremely small 
number of individuals. For example, in 2008, we enrolled over 66,000 new individual market 
members, but rescinded only 116 individuals. 

Rescission is a longstanding insurance contract remedy in America. The concerns regarding 
rescission surfaced in the California media in 2006, generating the public concern we are 
discussing here today. Our main point today is the same as it was then: a voluntary market for 
health insurance requires that we protect our members from costs associated with fraud and 
material misrepresentations. Otherwise the market cannot be sustained. 

In response to public concern over the practice of rescissions, WellPoint in 2006 undertook a 
thorough review of our policies and procedures. Following that review, WellPoint was the first 
insurer to announce the establishment of a variety of robust consumer protections that ensure 
rescissions are handled as accurately and appropriately as possible. These protections include: 1) 
creating a new Application Review Committee which includes a physician that makes rescission 

3 



50 


decisions, 2) establishing a single point of contact for members undergoing a rescission 
investigation, and 3) establishing an appeal process for applicants who disagree with our original 
detemiination which includes a review by an Application Review Committee not involved in the 
initial decision. And in 2008, WellPoint was the first in the industry to offer a binding, external, 
independent third-party review process for rescissions. 

We have put all of these protections in place with multiple steps because we cover millions of 
Americans and want to be as fair and accurate as we can be. 

Some have asserted that health insurers provide a systematic “reward” or job performance 
recognition for employees regarding rescissions. This is absolutely not the case at WellPoint. 
While we did respond to the Committee’s request by providing rare references to rescissions 
contained in performance reviews for two California employees from 2003, this does not reflect 
any policy, and I want to assure the Committee that there is no WellPoint policy to factor either 
the number of rescissions or the value of claims not paid in the evaluation of employee 
performance or when calculating employee salary or bonuses. Late last year when these reviews 
were discovered, the company undertook a review of performance records for other California 
associates who handled rescission investigations, numbering over 100 individuals. No other 
references to savings were found in any of these reviews. In the cases of these two employee 
reviews, there were two references to “retro savings” among a wide variety of other factors. 
Pointing to the same information, one employee received a rating of “3” and the other received a 
rating of “5”, demonstrating that this reference was not a significant factor in the evaluation of 
the performance for these two employees in 2003. The individuals reviewed did not receive extra 
salary or bonus as a result but received the same level of bonus as other similarly situated 
associates. 

In response to policymaker interest in enacting consumer protections related to rescission, 
WellPoint is proposing a set of rescission regulations with new consumer protections, which 
include the following: 

• Establishing an independent third-party review process for rescission disputes. 

• A requirement that all insurers provide an opportunity for new enrollees to review the 
application for coverage. 


4 



51 


• A new regulator “health question bank” that insurers must draw upon to develop their 
health history questionnaire. 

• A requirement that rescissions impact only the individual for which incorrect information 
was provided, not the entire family. 

• A requirement that insurers complete a rescission investigation within 90 calendar days 
of receiving all information requested during the investigation process from the 
individual and third parties. 

• A prohibition against rescinding contracts that have been in place for more than two 
years. 

• A requirement that every insurer’s rescission review process include a physician. 

• A requirement that every insurer’s rescission review process include an opportunity for 
an expedient appeal that involves a review by an internal committee that was not 
involved in the original decision to rescind and that includes a physician. 

• A requirement that every insurer establish a liaison that provides a single point-of-contact 
for an individual going through a rescission investigation. 

• A requirement that allows an individual to purchase a policy he or she would have been 
eligible for had he or she included the appropriate information on the application. 

In addition, the health insurance industry has proposed a set of comprehensive and interrelated 
reforms to the individual health insurance market as a whole. The centerpiece of this proposal is 
the elimination of medical underwriting combined with an effective and enforceable personal 
coverage requirement. 

Under this system of shared responsibility where everyone participates in the insurance pool by 
purchasing coverage, insurers would not need the ability to rescind coverage to protect our other 
policyholders. We appreciate that the health care reform bills under consideration in the House 
envision such a system. 

However, for these reforms to work properly and not increase costs significantly. Congress must 

design a personal coverage requirement that applies to everyone with strong financial 

5 



disincentives to ensure that younger and healthier individuals join and stay in the insurance pool 
and do not wait to get coverage until they need services. And to further increase its 
effectiveness, younger individuals need to be allowed to receive sufficient discounts for 
participating in the system. As currently written, the health care reform bills under consideration 
in the House do not meet these tests. 

Unless Congress creates a strong, effective personal coverage requirement and allows younger 
individuals to receive sufiSoient discounts, many will purchase coverage only when they need 
services, which will dramatically drive up costs for everyone else in the pool. We would 
welcome the opportunity to work with you to make certain that these insurance market reforms 
achieve the objectives we share and can be sustained over time. 

These proposals are examples of how we are working to find common ground on these issues so 
that we can make quality, affordable health coverage available for all Americans. Thank you for 
the opportunity to discuss this issue and these proposals with you. I look forward to your 
questions. 



53 


Mr. Stupak. Thank you, Mr. Sassi. 

Ms. Cutter, your opening statement, please? 

STATEMENT OF CAROL CUTTER 

Ms. Cutter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Stupak, Representative Hill, Representative Yarmuth, 
thank you for the opportunity for the Indiana Department of Insur- 
ance to make comments today in terms of procedures we follow 
that are set up according to State legislature rules and law, also 
through our HIPAA process that was passed by the federal govern- 
ment back in 1996. 

As you know, individual health policies are legal contracts that 
contain certain provisions. And all insurers who write policies in 
Indiana must include those particular provisions in their form fil- 
ings and are submitted to our department for review before that 
contract or policy is allowed to be sold or offered to any consumer 
residing in Indiana. 

These provisions have been adopted over the years by our State 
legislature and tend to be fairly consistent among the 50 states. 
The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which is a 
trade association for insurance commissioners throughout the 
State, also helps state departments of insurance develop language 
for statutes and regulations or models for the language that may 
be used for guidance as well. 

There are thirteen provisions currently in Indiana code. They are 
the entire contract, time limit on certain defenses or incontest- 
ability, grace period, reinstatement, notice of claim, claim forms, 
proofs of loss, time of payment of claims, the actual payment of 
claims, physical examinations and autopsy, legal actions, change of 
beneficiary, and guaranteed renewability provisions. 

Of these provisions, the second one, which is that time limit on 
certain defenses or incontestability, is the provision that prohibits 
an insurer from denying a claim or voiding coverage once the policy 
has been in effect for 2 years or more from the date of issue, unless 
fraud has occurred. 

Thus, an insurer is allowed to rescind coverage only within the 
2-year window following issuance of that policy for any 
misstatement or preexisting condition that wasn’t indicated on the 
application for coverage. 

HIPAA supports this very same action within the “guaranteed 
renewability of individual health coverage” wherein it states that 
an insurer may non-renew or discontinue coverage due to non- 
payment of premium, fraud or intentional misrepresentation of ma- 
terial fact, or withdrawal of the insurer from the marketplace, if 
the insured moves outside the service network, or there is a termi- 
nation of membership in the association that offered the insurance. 
So in Indiana, we follow not only the laws under the State legisla- 
ture that have been given to us but also under the federal HIPAA 
law. 

There are no provisions in Indiana code which disallow the re- 
scission or specify the procedures under which that event is to 
function. However, Indiana does have two alternatives that allow 
insurers to offer individual policies that do contain exclusions for 
specific conditions, called waivers, if the applicant chooses to accept 



54 


it. This allows people who would normally he declined for coverage 
or refuse coverage the ability to pick a policy that may have a 
waiver for a health condition that that applicant does not believe 
would be recurring in the future. 

A second safety net that Indiana offers is the Indiana Com- 
prehensive Health Insurance Association, which is our State risk 
pool, which does open its doors to anyone who is refused coverage 
by an insurer in the State of Indiana or have a condition that is 
considered uninsurable by an individual carrier. 

Our policy analysts within the department also review the lan- 
guage contained in any applications that are used by insurers to 
issue health policies to make certain that there are no all-inclusive, 
have you ever, or other questions using medical terminology too 
complex for the average consumer to understand. No insurer may 
use an application without our stamped approval of that form. 

Indiana’s statutes do not require insurers to report the number 
of policies rescinded as part of their annual statements. So our in- 
volvement with rescissions begins when the insured files a com- 
plaint with our Consumer Protection Area. 

We then investigate the actions surrounding the rescission to see 
if there has been any inappropriate behavior on the part of the in- 
surer. Last year in Indiana, of the 6,000 complaints we inves- 
tigated, 14 of those complaints were for rescission of individual 
health policies. Of those 14 rescissions, 2 of them were for a med- 
ical condition for which the claim that had occurred was not related 
to that particular angle mentioned. 

And so alternative arrangements were made for the insurer to 
provide coverage for that person, instead of actually rescinding the 
coverage. Generally, the rescission complaints we have reviewed 
over the last few years were most always based upon the same 
medical condition for which the insured had submitted a claim but, 
for some reason, had not revealed that information on the applica- 
tion of coverage. 

As noted in prior testimony before this Subcommittee, insurers 
have established outside review procedures when a rescission oc- 
curs, which does give the policyholder the opportunity to question 
those actions and retain coverage or receive a waiver rider for that 
condition. The department’s Consumer Protection Unit is specifi- 
cally described and used for a safety net for consumers who fall 
into these sorts of categories. 

Another concept, which Mr. Collins just referred to and I believe 
the Subcommittee is considering, would be the change on an indi- 
vidual health contract to a guarantee issue basis, with an accom- 
panying coverage, mandate for coverage, which would eliminate the 
need for medical histories for applicants under any circumstances. 

We believe that the insurers currently have the legal ability to 
perform medical reviews within that 2-year contestability period to 
protect the other policyholders from fraudulent claims payments or 
higher premiums. We are always open to discussions for any im- 
provements that could be made in the rescission process itself. 

Thank you for your time. 

[The prepared statement of Carol Cutter follows:] 



55 


United States House of Representatives 
Committee on Energy and Commerce 
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 
July 27, 2009 


Testimony of Carol Cutter, Commissioner 
Indiana Department of Insurance 


Chairman Stupak, Ranking Member Walden, Chairman Waxman and 
Ranking Member Barton, Indiana appreciates the opportunity to discuss 
rescission of individual health policies in our state. 

As you may know, all individual insurance contracts contain certain 
required provisions that all insurers must include in their form filings 
submitted to our Department for review, before that contract or policy is 
allowed to be offered or sold to any consumer residing in Indiana. These 
provisions have been adopted over the years through our state legislature 
and tend to be relatively consistent among most ali of the 50 states. The 
National Association of Insurance Commissioners, a trade association that 
helps state departments of insurance develop language for statutes and 
regulations, has generated models that states may use for guidance as 
well. 

There are thirteen (13) such provisions in Indiana code. They are 1) entire 
contract, 2) time limit on certain defenses or incontestability, 3) grace 
period, 4) reinstatement, 5) notice of claim, 6) claim forms, 7) proofs of 
loss, 8) time of payment of claims, 9) payment of claims, 10) physical 



56 


examinations and autopsy, 11) legal actions, 12) change of beneficiary, 13) 
guaranteed renewability. Of these provisions, it is the second one that 
prohibits an insurer from denying a claim or voiding coverage once the 
policy has been in effect for two years from the date of issue, unless fraud 
has occurred. This provision, thus, allows an insurer to rescind coverage 
within the two (2) year window following issuance of the policy for 
misstatements or pre-existing conditions not indicated on the application for 
coverage. HIPAA supports this action within the ‘guaranteed renewability 
of individual health coverage’ (42 USC 300gg-42) wherein it states an 
insurer may nonrenew or discontinue coverage due to 1 ) non-payment of 
premium, 2) fraud or intentional misrepresentation of material fact, 3) 
withdrawal of the insurer from writing individual contracts in the 
marketplace, 4) if the insured moves outside the network service area, and 
5) termination of membership in the association that offered the insurance. 

There are no provisions in Indiana code specific to ‘rescission’ or the 
procedures under which that event is to function. However, Indiana does 
have a ‘waiver’ law that allows insurers to offer individual policies that 
contain exclusions for specific conditions, if the applicant chooses to accept 
it. Only two (2) waivers per covered person are allowed under the contract, 
and the exclusion of that condition may not last beyond a maximum of 10 
years. This provides an opportunity for more consumers to be approved for 
individual policies than if the insurers simply declined the applications. 

Our policy analysts also review the language contained in any applications 
used for individual health policies to make certain there are no ‘all- 
inclusive’, ‘have you ever’, or other questions using medical terminology too 
complex for the average consumer to understand, included. No insurer 
may use an application without our stamped approval of that form. 

Indiana’s insurance statutes do not require insurers to report the number of 
policies rescinded as part of their annual statements. Our involvement with 
rescissions begins when the insured files a complaint with our Consumer 
Protection Area and we then investigate the actions surrounding the 
rescission. Generally, the rescission complaints we’ve reviewed over the 
last few years were based upon the same medical condition for which the 



57 


insured submitted a claim, but had not revealed that information on the 
application for coverage. Those insureds who have incurred a rescission 
may acquire coverage through Indiana’s state risk pool, that accepts all 
applicants who’ve been refused coverage. The risk pool is subsidized by 
the insurers and the state. 

As noted in prior testimony before this Subcommittee, insurers have 
established outside review procedures when a rescission occurs, which 
give the policyholder the opportunity to question those actions, and retain 
coverage or receive a waiver rider for that condition. 

Another concept introduced by the industry has been the change on 
individual health contracts to a 'guarantee issue’ basis, with an 
accompanying coverage mandate, which would eliminate the need for 
medical histories for applicants. 

Indiana does believe that insurers need to have the ability to perform 
medical reviews within the two year contestability period so as to protect 
the majority of policyholders from fraudulent claims payments and higher 
premiums. We are, certainly, open to discussions as to any improvements 
that could be made in the rescission process itself. 

Thank you for your time. I'll gladly answer any questions you may have. 



58 


Mr. Stupak. Thank you. 

And, Professor Kinney, your statement, please. 

STATEMENT OF ELEANOR KINNEY 

Ms. Kinney. Thank you. Thank you. Chairman Stupak, Mr. Hill, 
Mr. Yarmuth. It is an honor for me to he here to testify today. And 
I will try to be a little bit briefer than my statement, which has 
already been submitted for the record. 

I was asked by Mr. Gordon to kind of look at Indiana and the 
situation generally. In Indiana, the task force at Indiana Univer- 
sity while the Indiana University Health Reform Faculty Study 
Group did do an in-depth study of the situation in Indiana with re- 
spect to health coverage. 

I fear that the situation with requiring people to rely on the pri- 
vate market is increasingly — specifically, I think there are situa- 
tions where we are losing health insurance coverage through em- 
ployment. And, in particular, we have witnessed a fairly precipi- 
tous drop of insurer-sponsored coverage over the years. And we 
find that employers compared to other states offer less insurance. 

Also, with the economic times, people are losing jobs in Indiana, 
like other states. And, thus, they have to rely on the private indi- 
vidual insurance market for their health insurance. And this puts 
people with serious conditions or health problems in a difficult po- 
sition when it comes to getting adequate health insurance cov- 
erage. And I think it is one reason why we need comprehensive 
health reform, which I think all of us uniformly believe is the case. 

One would say, “Well, somebody with a health problem creating 
an existing condition can go to the Indiana Comprehensive Health 
Insurance Association.” And, indeed, they can, but on page 3 of my 
testimony, I have put together a chart of what that would cost for 
somebody in Marion County, which is Indianapolis; and 
Venderburgh County, which is down in Evansville on the coast. 

I don’t know about your all’s financial circumstances, but I would 
find that having to pay some of these premiums prohibitively ex- 
pensive. And then if you look at the information on the plans which 
were available on the Web site, you get health insurance coverage 
that is pretty skimpy in terms of the co-insurance involved. In 
other words, there is lots of money that would have to be paid out 
of pocket before benefits chip in. So it is questionable in my judg- 
ment whether this is really a sufficient answer to the problem of 
people with serious health insurance problems. 

We have also done work in the Center for Law and Health in the 
past that shows that these kinds of practices with insurance com- 
panies have occurred and people with serious illness have experi- 
enced cancellation of insurance policies. And I have got that re- 
search on page 4 of my testimony. 

It is clear that HIPAA, which I think, in part, was designed to 
address the problem of non-renewal and cancellation, really hasn’t 
done the job when it comes for revision. 

I think that strategies for reform, which I was also asked to ad- 
dress, must address the unfair aspects of the process of rescission 
and post-claims underwriting. 

In review, in getting ready to come here today, I looked at the 
National Association of Insurance Commissioners’ principles on 



59 


health reform. And one of their principles on health reform quoted 
on page 6 of my testimony is addressing adverse selection. And I 
think it is very important to appreciate that adverse selection is an 
important problem in the private health insurance market. And it 
is not realistic for us to assume that that is not an important prob- 
lem for insurers. It will be addressed if we have comprehensive 
health insurance with individual mandate. 

And, finally, I would commend the Committee, not only for H.R. 
3600 and the provisions in that bill intended to address rescission 
practices and post-claim underwriting, but for the tremendous job 
in laying out issues associated with this very, very difficult condi- 
tion. 

I think that you have done a good job with increasing the evi- 
dentiary standard that would be applied in making a rescission de- 
cision as well as require external review. I am interested to see 
that insurers that have testified here today have also talked about 
external review. 

Another provision you might want to think about that I see has 
been bantered around in the NAIC model of long-term care, health 
insurance regulations of long-term care, insurance regulations, is a 
prohibition against post-claims underwriting. It seems to me that 
if an insurance company has the chart for a specific period of time, 
it might be closer than a shorter period of 2 years, then they ought 
to be able to look at the chart, see if they want to provide a policy 
and let the policyholder know that they are not going to be able 
to be there for them in the event of another serious illness. 

Thank you. I will take your questions. 

[The prepared statement of Eleanor Kinney follows:] 



60 


CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
111*^ Cong., 1** Sess. 

COMMITIEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE 
SUBCOMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND INVESTIGATIONS 

Testimony of Eleanor D Kinney, JD, MPH 
Hall Render Professor of Law & Co-Director 
Hall Center for Law and Health 
Indiana University School of Law - Indianapolis 

July 27, 2009 


Mr. Chairman: 

Thank you for the opportunity to testify before your committee today about a very 
important aspect of the conduct of the market for private insurance in Indiana and the 
United States. I am Co-Director of the William S. and Christine S. Hall Center for Law 
and Health at the law school and also Co-Director of the Consortium for Health Policy, 
Law and Bioethics, an lUPUI Signature Center. Both the Hall Center and the 
Consortium are engaged in research, scholarship and education on health law and policy. 

It is clear that the United States health care sector is in trouble. The major means of 
financing health care products and services - health insurance - is broken. The 
percentage of Americans whose health insurance is provided through employment has 
dropped precipitously in recent years from 80 percent of workers in 1982 to 73 percent 
by 1998. ' The United States Census reports that the number of the percentage of the 
population covered by employer-sponsored private health insurance is 59.3 percent in 
2007.^ And just last Friday, The Commonwealth Fund issued a report on how the 
individual health insurance market was failing Americans.^ 


' J. Gruber & R. McKnight, Why did Employee Health Insurance Contributions Rise? J. Health Economics 
p03);22:1085. 

■ C. DeNavas-Walt, B.D. Proctor & J. C. Smith, Income, Poverty, and Health Insurance Coverage in the 
United States: 2007 (Current Population Reports, Aug 2008), available at 
httD://www.census.gov/DrQd/2008pubs/D60-235.Ddf (visited Jul. 23, 2009). 

^ M. M. Doty, S. R. Collins, J. L. Nicholson, and S. D. Rustgi, Failure to Protect: Why the Individual 
Insurance Market Is Not a Viable Option for Most U.S. Families, The Commonwealth Fund, July 2009, 
available at http://www.commonwealthfund.org/Content/Publications/Issue-Briefs/2009/Jul/Failure-to- 
Protect.aspx (visited Jul. 24, 2009). 



61 


From 2006-2008, the Indiana University Health Reform Faculty Study Group,'* with 
funding from the State of Indiana, analyzed Indiana’s health care sector and developed 
proposals for refom.’ The information on Indiana presented in this testimony was 
developed by this Study Group from published national and Indiana data; I served as Co- 
Director of this Study Group. 

The Crisis Today in Indiana and the United States 

The situation with private health insurance coverage in Indiana is not unlike other states. 
Indiana’s iminsured population is composed principally of working adults and its ranks 
are growing.® On any given day, Indiana has approximately 561,000 uninsured residents. 
This number has expanded faster than the national rate each year since 2000. Sixty-two 
percent of the uninsured are between 18 and 64 with incomes below 200 percent of the 
federal poverty level (i.e., $40,000 for a family of four). Of note, Indiana has higher per 
capita expenditures compared to other states and an age-adjusted mortality rate 6.2 
percent higher than the national average, with notably excess mortality in diabetes and 
cancer.’ Further, Indiana falls way below other states in important public health status 
measures like obesity and tobacco use.* 

Between 2001 and 2005, Indiana experienced an 8.8 percent drop in employer sponsored 
coverage - one of the sharpest declines among all states. * In 2006, only 34 percent of 
Indiana firms with fewer than 50 employees offered health insurance to their workers, 
lower than the 43 percent who did so nationally. Firms that do offer coverage are shifting 
an increasing portion of costs to their employees. 


“ Indiana University, Indiana University Health Reform Faculty Study Group, available at 
httD://www.healthcarerefoi'm.iuDui.edu/ (visited Jul. 24, 2009). 

’E. Wright & M. Foddrill, A Framework for Health Reform in Indiana: Draft for Public Discussion (Center 
for Health Policy, Indiana University School of Public and Environmental Affairs, 2009), available at 
httD://Dolicvinstitute.iu.edu/Pub.sPDFs/framework%20recommendations.pdf (visited Jul. 23, 2009). 

‘ P.J. Seward, A. Holmes & E. Wright, The Uninsured: Indiana's Rising Healthcare Dilemma (Center for 
Health Policy, Indiana University School of Public and Environmental Affairs, 2009), available at 
httD://policvinstitute.iu.edu/PubsPDFs/Uninsured.pdf (visited Jul. 24, 2009). (Data in this paragraph are 
from the cited source. Data in this paragraph are from the cited source. Citations of original sources have 
been omitted in this document but are available in the Study Group Report. Also some sentences 
presenting data are taken directly from the report.) 

’ A Holmes & E Wright, The Rising Tide of Health Care Costs in Indiana (Center for Health Policy, 
Indiana University School of Public and Environmental Affairs, 2008), available at 
http://nolicvinstitute.iu.edu/PubsPDFs/The%20Rising%20Tide%20of%20Healthcare%20Costs%20in%20I 
ndiana.pdf (visited Jul. 24, 2009). (Data in this paragraph are from the cited source. Citations of original 
sources have been omitted in this document but are available in the Study Group Report. Also some 
sentences presenting data are taken directly from the report.) 

* H. McCabe, G. Steele, E.D. Kinney et al,. Public Health Programs Key to Healthy Population, Lower 
Healthcare Costs (Center for Health Policy, Indiana University School of Public and Environmental 
Affairs, 2008), available at http.'//policvin.stitule.iu.edu/PubsPDFs/PublicHealthProg.Ddf (visited Jul. 24, 
2009). 

’ A Holmes & E Wright, The Rising Tide of Health Care Costs in Indiana, supra note 7. (Data in this 
paragraph are from the cited source. Citations of original sources have been omitted in this document but 
are available in the Study Group Report. Also some sentences presenting data arc taken directly from the 
report.) 


2 



62 


Individual private health insurance is one of the few options for health coverage for 
individuals and families who are not otherwise eligible for public health insurance 
programs like Medicare and Medicaid. We have reason to believe that the situation with 
private coverage in Indiana is not unlike the situation that The Commonwealth Fund 
reported nationally, According to this report: 

Over the last three years, nearly three-quarters of people who tried to buy 
coverage in this market never actually purchased a plan, either because 
they could not find one that fit their needs or that they could afford, or 
because they were turned down due to a preexisting condition, ' ' 

Indiana does have a high-risk pool for individuals who are medically uninsurable The 
Indiana Comprehensive Health Insurance Association (ICHIA) offers four plans. The 
cost and benefits of these plans are summarized in the table below.'" ICHIA polices 
have a pre-existing condition of three months unless waived. As demonstrated in the 
table, ICHIA policies are expensive and have high levels of cost sharing. 


Moatbly Premiums for ICHIA insurance Plans in Rate Area 5: 

Marion (Indianapolis) and Vanderburgh (Evansville) Counties 

July 2009 


Plaal 

Deductible: $500 

Coinsurance: 
80%/20%In-Neuvork 
(no more than $1000} 

60% / 40% Oul-of'Nctwork 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum: 

$1,500 (including deductible) 

Plan 3A 

Deductible: $1,000 
Coinsurance; 

80%/20% In-Network 
(no more than $2000) 

60% / 40% Out-of-Network 
Out-of-Pocket maximum; 

$3,000 (including deductible) 

Plan 3B 

Deductible: $1,500 

Coinsurance: 

80%/ 20% In-Network 
(no more than $2500) 

60% / 40% Out-of-Network 
Out-of-Pocket maximum: 

$4,000 (including deductible) 

Plan 4 

Summary not 
available 

Ages 

Male 

Female 

Male 

Female 

Male 

Female 

Male 

Female 

Child 

$266.59 

$304.68 

$218.72 

$249.49 

$168.55 

$191.53 

$143.04 

$162.53 

19-24 

335.54 



574.27 



226.43 

447.41 

25-29 




574.27 

275.60 

527.23 


447.41 

30-34 


667.72 


574.27 

300.76 

527.23 

255.22 

447.41 

35-39 


667.72 


574.27 

334.06 

527.23 

283.48 

447.41 


500.66 

667.72 


612.87 

420.49 



466.79 


616.76 

733.11 


671.02 

520.31 

611.12 

433.73 

509.43 

50-54 

763.07 

838.32 

705.43 

767.06 

648.25 

697.62 

540.37 

581.54 

55-59 

957.66 

971.88 

888.57 

890.74 

818.57 

811.56 

682.36 

676.50 

60-64 

1,159.83 

1,149.36 

1,076.07 

1,054.35 

990.31 

961.41 

825.51 

801.42 

65 + 

1,347.05 

1,328.77 

1,243.8! 

1,213,78 

1,138.82 

1,101.91 

949.31 

918.54 


M. M. Doty, S. R. Collins, I. L. Nicholson, and S. D. Rustgi, Failure to Protect, supra note 3. 

Indiana Comprehensive Health Insurance Association, On-Line Health Plan.Com, available at 
http://www.onlinehealthpIan.com/ (visited Jul. 24, 2009). 


3 





































63 


Indiana families are really feeling the strain of costly health insurance and health care 
services. By 2001, average personal spending on healthcare for Indiana families 
exceeded the expenditures that they spent on food, housing, or transportation. About a 
quarter of nonelderly families spend at least 10 percent of their pretax income on health 
care. Nearly half of all personal bankruptcies in Indiana are due to medical expenses. 

Insurer practices of rescission or post claim underwriting that are the subject of this 
hearing can be particularly devastating for Indiana consumers. Consumers are virtually 
uninsurable after the rescission of a health insurance contract as indicated in insurer 
testimony at the June 16* hearing. Their only recoxirse is to obtain insurance through 
employment, which may be out of the picture if they are ill. Or they can enroll in one of 
the ICHIA plans that are quite expensive as indicated above. They are only eligible for 
Medicare if they are determined to be disabled and exhaust a two year waiting period. 
They are only eligible for Medicaid if they spend down to Medicaid income and resource 
levels, which are quite low in Indiana. (Of note, Indiana does not have a Medicaid 
Medically Needy program.) They are only eligible for Indiana’s Healthy Indiana Plan if 
they meet that program’s restrictive eligibility requirements, including participation in a 
medical savings account program. 

Historically, Indiana residents have been subject to insurer practices of rescission, post 
claim underwriting and other practices that have ultimately denied private health 
insurance to seriously ill individuals. In the 1990s, with funding from The Robert Wood 
Johnson Foundation and the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, we at the Hall Center 
and colleagues at Indiana University documented the extensive problems that Indiana 
residents had with all types of private health insurance coverage.'^ In another study of 
the woricing poor’s attitudes toward health insurance coverage in Indiana, focus groups of 
the working poor clearly indicated that private coverage with high cost-sharing 
provisions and lack of coverage of prescription drugs among other items was not worth 
purchasing given their limited resources.'^ 


A Holmes & E Wright, The Rising Tide of Health Care Costs in Indiana, supra note 7. (Data in this 
paragraph are from the cited source. Data in this paragraph are from the cited source. Citations of original 
sources have been omitted in this document but are available in the Study Group Report. Also some 
sentences presenting data are taken directly from the report.) 

See N. Swigonski, E. Kinney, D. Freund & T. Kniesner, Unfinished Business: Inadequate Health 
Coverage for Privately Insured Seriously 111 Children, Children's Health Care {2001);30(4):219; K. Stroupe, 
E. Kinney & T. Kniesner, Chronic Illness and Health Insurance-Related Job Lock, Journal of Policy 
Analysis and Management (2001); 20(3):525; K. Stroupe, E. Kinney & T. Kniesner, Is There Evidence for 
Health Insurance-Related Job Lock When a Family Member is Chronically 111? Journal of Health Policy, 
Politics and Law (2000);25(2): 309; E. Kinney, D. Freund, M. Camp, K. Jordan & C. Mayfield, Serious 
Illness and Private Health Coverage: A Unique Problem Calling for Unique Solutions, Journal of Law, 
Medicine & Ethics 190 (1997); 25(2-3):190; E. Kinney & S. Steinmetz, Notes from the Insurance 
Underground: How the Chronically 111 Cope, Journal of Health Politics, Policy and Law (1994);19(3):633. 
'*E. Kinney, M. Tai-Seale, J, Greene, R. Murray & W. Tierney, Three Political Realities in Expanding 
Coverage for the Working Poor: One State=s Experience, Health Affairs, (1999); 18(4):188. 


4 



64 


Strategies for Reform 

As noted in the Supplemental Memorandum that was prepared following the hearing 
before this committee on June 16, 2009, there is considerable controversy over the 
legality of the practices of rescission and post claim underwriting. The Supplemental 
Memorandum presents information on statutes and court cases across the states that 
address insurer rescission of individual health insurance contracts. 

Ostensibly, as the Supplemental Memorandum points out, the Health Insurance 
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) prohibits insurance companies from 
rescinding or otherwise discontinuing individual insurance coverage unless there has 
been fraud or intentional misrepresentation of a material fact by the applicant or 
policyholder. HIPAA states that a “health insurance issuer that provides individual 
health insurance coverage to an individual shall renew or continue in force such coverage 
at the option of the individual” except if “the individual has performed an act or practice 
that constitutes fraud or made an intentional misrepresentation of material fact under the 
terms of the coverage.” ’ * 

However, as explained in the Supplemental Memorandum, insurance companies do not 
necessarily follow the above quoted HIPAA provision in rescission situations. Rather, 
they could correctly maintain that rescission of a policy is different than non-renewal. In 
contract law, the consequence of rescission is that the rescinded contract never existed in 
the first place. Cancellation and non-renewal apply to an existing contract. 

The Problem of Adverse Selection. Rescission and post claims underwriting are one 
way that an insiu-er can address adverse selection that exists in a volimtary individual 
private health insurance market. Insurers in this market suspect that the people are 
purchasing individual private health insurance policies on a voluntary basis only because 
they are sick or have reason to believe that they will become sick. The problem of 
adverse selection could be solved with a legal mandate that all people get insurance. The 
joint health reform that the three House Committees just reported out does have such 
mandates.'* Nevertheless, it is important to address problem of rescission and post 
claims underwriting in the interim. 

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, comprised of state insurance 
regulators, has developed principles of health reform that include a mandate for health 
insurance coverage. These principles also require that health reform address the problem 
of adverse selection: 


“ Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-191, 110 Stat. 1998 
(codified as amended, Public Health Service Act § 2742, 42 U.S.C. § 300gg-42). 

H.R. 3200, America’s Affordable Health Choices Act, 111”’ Cong., 1 Sess. (2009). 

See J.W. Stempel, Law of Insurance Contract Disputes (1998 & Supp. 2002); E.A. Farnsworth, 
Contracts § 9.3 (3"* Ed. 1 999). 


5 



65 


Avoid Adverse Selection. Any program that grants consumers the choice 
between two pools with different rating, benefit, or access requirements 
will result in adverse selection for one of the pools. Likewise, setting 
different rules for different plans within the pool or allowing consumers to 
wait xmtil they get sick to purchase insurance, without penalty, can have 
adverse consequences on the pool. Any reforms must be carefully 
constructed to ensure the long-term health of the market. We can support 
guaranteed issue and elimination of preexisting condition exclusions for 
individuals to the extent that these reforms are coupled with an effective 
and enforceable individual purchase mandate and appropriate income- 
sensitive subsidies to make coverage affordable [Emphasis supplied].'^ 

H.R. 3600, America’s Affordable Health Choices Act. In my view, H.R. 3600 does 
much to address current problems with individual private health insurance coverage, with 
long term and genuine health reform. 

However, H.R. 3600 could do more in the interim. Specifically, H.R. 3600 treats 
rescission of the insurance contract as a non-renewal of the contract. As explained above, 
rescission and nonrenewal are not the same legal concepts. Rescission voids the 
insurance contract altogether and from the start, while cancellation and non-renewal 
terminate an existing contract. 

To be effective, H.R. 3600 should explicitly address the practices of practices of 
rescission and post claim underwriting for individual health insurance contracts. 
Possible reforms would be the imposition of time limits on which insurers could rescind 
an insurance contract. Other reforms, included in H.R. 3600, are a higher evidentiary 
standard for intentional misrepresentation and mandated external review of decisions to 
rescind. Another reform would be to prohibit the practice of post claims underwriting 
altogether or after a brief time period. 

Thank you. 


National Association of Insurance Commission's and the Center for Insurance Policy and Research, 
Principles of Health Reform (2009), available at 

http://www.naic.org/toDics/tODic health care reform DrinciDles.htm (visited Jul. 24, 2009). 


6 



66 


Mr. Stupak. Well, thank you, Professor. 

And before I turn to my two colleagues, let me just ask one quick 
question. Mr. Collins, on behalf of Golden Rule Insurance Company 
and UnitedHealth Group, would you commit today that your com- 
pany will never rescind another policy unless there is a potential 
fraud misrepresentation in the application? 

Mr. Collins. We would commit that we will not rescind a policy 
if there is a knowing and material misrepresentation or omission 
on a health insurance policy. 

Mr. Stupak. So, in other words, your answer is no? 

Mr. Collins. No, sir. There is quite a bit of overlap in those two 
standards between knowing and intending. The standard that we 
follow is a knowing material omission, misstatement or 

Mr. Stupak. So if I just forget to check a box, I can be rescinded, 
right? 

Mr. Collins. Well, our 

Mr. Stupak. That is an omission. 

Mr. Collins. Well, sir, our applications are designed to elicit rel- 
evant information needed to underwrite a policy form. 

Mr. Stupak. Anyone who went through applications in Wash- 
ington could explain it, the terms. 

Mr. Collins. Sir, I can explain the terms of ours. I believe you 
are referring to somebody else who testified. 

Mr. Stupak. So to my question of intentional fraud, unless there 
is intentional fraud, you reserve the right to rescind an application 
for whatever reason your policy states? 

Mr. Collins. We follow state laws. 

Mr. Stupak. Every state is a little different. 

Mr. Collins. And we have an obligation to our policyholders to 
honestly fill out the application, to fill out the application com- 
pletely. Our people made it up. We have a condition excluded from 
coverage or some who are even designed to treat them the same 
as people who did not fill out an application completely or remain 
during this representation in the application. 

Mr. Stupak. My concern is that your definition of knowing is you 
assume you know everything in your medical records for the last 
5 years. Lay people really don’t. 

So let me go to Mr. Sassi. Are you willing to commit that 
WellPoint today that your company will never rescind another pol- 
icy unless there is intentional fraud, misrepresentation in the ap- 
plication? 

Mr. Sassi. Like Mr. Collins, WellPoint follows state law. In the 
vast majority of states in this country 

Mr. Stupak. It is a very simple 

Mr. Sassi. No, it isn’t, sir. 

Mr. Stupak [continuing]. “Yes” or “No” answer. 

Mr. Sassi. Well, it is not a simple question because with the mis- 
representations of the law. And so in most states, it is a no-win 
standard. And if someone knowingly misrepresents their health 
status and it is material to whether we could offer a policy, then 
we will rescind that but only if it is material in the interim and 
it is not just 

Mr. Stupak. Even if it is unintentional, just because they know- 
ingly missed something, you could rescind them, right? 



67 


Mr. Sassi. If it is material, then it would have not already cov- 
ered — 

Mr. Stupak. Sure. If they knowingly 

Mr. Sassi. If someone has heen unaware of their medical condi- 
tion — 

Mr. Stupak. Sure. 

Mr. Sassi [continuing]. Then we would not rescind. 

Mr. Stupak. You have 1,400 codes to trip up people, right? These 
are your codes. Don’t you have 1,400 codes which trigger a review 
of an application post-underwriting, as the professor said? 

Mr. Sassi. I would contend that we do not participate in post- 
claim underwriting. 

Mr. Stupak. You have 1,400 codes that trigger a review of poli- 
cies, right? You have 1,400 and Assured has 2,000 different codes. 
Once you trigger one of those codes, there is an automatic review 
to try to get out and rescind that policy? 

Mr. Sassi. Not necessarily, only if it is 

Mr. Stupak. But there are 1,400 codes, right? Can you say “Yes” 
or “No” to that? 

Mr. Sassi. Yes. And there are 

Mr. Stupak. OK. 

Mr. Sassi [continuing]. Tens of thousands of medical conditions. 

Mr. Stupak. Mr. Hill for a question, please? 

Mr. Hill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have got a few questions 
for you particularly, Mr. Sassi, hut I also have a general question 
I want to ask. 

Do either one of you offer incentives to your employees when 
they are able to find some reason they need to file this rescission? 

Mr. Collins. Absolutely not. Congressman. 

Mr. Sassi. WellPoint does not have a policy to offer incentives or 
a pay/borrow system to employees. 

Mr. Hill. How would you respond to the one woman who said 
that she had a friend of hers in church whose job it was to find 
reasons we cancel policies? Any explanation of that? She gave her 
testimony under oath. So it has to be an accurate statement. 

Mr. Collins. Well, sir, I really can’t explain Ms. Beaton’s testi- 
mony about the practices of Health Care Services Corporation, 
which is a Chicago-based Blue Cross/Blue Shield parent company 
with Blue Cross in Texas. 

Mr. Hill. You don’t have anybody on staff to look at this kind 
of thing, do you? 

Mr. Collins. Well, sir, we have processes, as all insurance com- 
panies do, including group insurance companies, to monitor for pre- 
existing conditions that may or may not be covered under our poli- 
cies. 

Mr. Hill. Well, let me ask the question a different way, then. 
That person sends in a claim, whatever it might be, heart surgery, 
cancer, whatever it is. When they send in that claim, is there a 
person in your company that begins a review of that person’s med- 
ical records before they pay that claim? 

Mr. Collins. There is not a person that starts an investigation 
based on a single item that comes into the company. No, sir. 

Mr. Hill. Mr. Sassi. 



68 


Mr. Sassi. We do have people that look for fraud and situations 
that 

Mr. Hill. After a claim is filed? 

Mr. Sassi. Well, we do not have departments of people that just 
review claims to determine fraud. In the individual market, we do 
exclude coverage for certain preexisting conditions if those condi- 
tions exist. So we do have checks and balances. 

Mr. Hill. I think your answer is yes, you do do an investigation 
of that person’s medical records after a claim is filed? 

Mr. Sassi. Yes. An investigation does not turn into a rescission 
in the individual market. Over 92 percent of rescission investiga- 
tions are closed with no action. 

Mr. Hill. And, Mr. Collins, that is not your policy? Is that what 
you are saying? 

Mr. Collins. Well, my point was, sir, that based on a single data 
point, we are not doing investigations. We clearly will review 
claims for applicability to the policy, whether they are covered in 
the policy. 

There are extensive computerized claim reviews that happen. 
Throughout the industry, whether it is group insurance, whether it 
is individual insurance, there are — every claim goes through a com- 
puterized system that reviews the appropriateness of the claim and 
whether the claim is eligible, whether the person is eligible, the 
provider is eligible who is submitting the claim. 

Mr. Hill. Let me ask the question in a third way. Does a claim 
trigger an investigation? 

Mr. Collins. There are many ways that rescission investigations 
could start. Sometimes rescissions are started with a call from a 
provider, a precertification call. Sometimes it is because a claim is 
submitted, but there are multiple ways, multiple routes in which 
we get intelligence that there is a claim that may have been pre- 
existing, which may or may not have been disclosed on an applica- 
tion. 

Mr. Hill. And is a claim one of those triggers? 

Mr. Collins. There are multiple aspects that we look at, but a 
claim 

Mr. Hill. Is a claim one of them? 

Mr. Collins. Yes, sir. 

Mr. Hill. Mr. Sassi, you are the CEO of WellPoint’s consumer 
business. And your company has provided the Committee with 
thousands of pages of documents relating to policies you rescinded. 
I would like to ask about several policies you rescinded here in In- 
diana. 

In the case you identified as case number 59-71-7, WellPoint re- 
scinded an Indiana resident’s health insurance because he failed to 
disclose a condition called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
or COPD. Are you aware of this claim? 

Mr. Sassi. I am not aware of the specific case. 

Mr. Hill. Mr. Sassi, these are documents you provided to the 
Committee. These are from your own files. Our staff has been going 
back and forth with your team about this case for weeks. Are you 
now saying you don’t know anything about it? 



69 


Mr. Sassi. I am aware that WellPoint has provided the requested 
documents to the Committee. I have personally not reviewed those 
documents. I am aware that there is a high level of 

Mr. Hill. Let me ask you this. The doctor in this case proved 
that WellPoint made a mistake. Why did the policyholder have to 
go out and hire a lawyer to convince you to reinstate the policy? 
Why didn’t you believe the doctor? 

Mr. Sassi. Again, I know nothing about the details of the case. 

Mr. Hill. OK. Well, you know, I wish I could stay and ask ques- 
tions. It is obvious that the claims procedure does trigger investiga- 
tions. And you had people that are going through the very small 
details of a person’s medical history in order to find a way of deny- 
ing that claim. I think it is rather obvious. 

Mr. Chairman, let me thank you for coming to Indiana to hold 
this hearing. It is very important that we get to the root of a lot 
of reasons that have been offered here as to why claims are denied. 

We appreciate your leadership in this particular issue. Again, we 
appreciate you coming here to Indiana. 

Mr. Stupak. Thank you. Congressman. And we look forward to 
seeing you back later today. 

Mr. Yarmuth. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Thank you. Chairman Stupak. 

Let’s just ask. Chairman Stupak showed you and you acknowl- 
edged it, that there are 1,400 diagnostic codes that would prompt 
a retroactive review of the insured. And you said there were 20,000 
diagnostic codes? 

Mr. Sassi. There are thousands. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Thousands more than the 1,400. What would dis- 
tinguish the 1,400 codes that prompt a review from the rest of 
them? Is there a common distinction? 

Mr. Sassi. I would say they are codes. And this is particularly 
in the individual insurance market, where we receive information 
after a policy is issued. And our claims system would if a claim was 
received — it could be a pharmacy claim, a $20 pharmacy claim — 
that pertained to either a chronic condition that a member might 
have or some type of ongoing condition that would prompt us to in- 
vestigate whether it was a preexisting condition or not and wheth- 
er that was disclosed to us or not on the application. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Would it be fair to say — and if not, would you cor- 
rect me? — that the distinction would be that these are diagnoses 
that would require relatively expensive and long-term payments? 

Mr. Sassi. I would say not in all cases because many pharmacy 
claims that come in for meds are for 

Mr. Yarmuth. I’m talking about the condition itself, not the ac- 
tual individual claim. What we were talking about here — and Jim 
Stupak has a list. I have a list of Blue Cross in California, for in- 
stance. And it is individual plans, table of diagnoses, subject to ret- 
roaction review. 

And it is not a list of 1,400. It is a list of two pages long. I am 
sure there is a third, three pages long. And it is things like diabe- 
tes, neoplasms, or cancers, schizophrenic disorders, asthma, rheu- 
matoid arthritis, emphysema, chronic renal failure, not anything 
like chicken pox. These are things reading across this list that 
would require lengthy, expensive treatment. 



70 


Would you say that is true? I mean, would a diagnosis in a child 
of chicken pox prompt a retroactive view of the claim or the med- 
ical history? 

Mr. Sassi. Most likely not, but from looking at that list, I would 
say not every condition is necessarily an expensive condition. Many 
people have these conditions and for very little cost. 

Mr. Yarmuth. I am not sure it has been said at this hearing, but 
I know that it came out at a hearing in Washington that over the 
past 5 years, there have been approximately 20,000 rescission cases 
that saved according to insurance company data $300 million. That 
averages out. My math is $15 a case. 

If you were to have a situation like some of the ones we heard 
here today — we had two cases of breast cancer on the panel before 
us, before you. Sir, could you give us an estimate, either one, Mr. 
Collins, Mr. Sassi, of what the average expenditure for treatment 
of the cases that you heard today might be? 

Mr. Collins. Not off the top of my head. Congressman. No, sir. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Could you give me a range? 

Mr. Collins. The range, sir, is like — I really couldn’t, sir, give 
you a reasonable estimate. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Would you think that $15,000 is probably as little 
as in the case of breast cancer the cost of a double mastectomy and 
the ensuing chemotherapy and in some cases reconstructive sur- 
gery? Would you say that those situations would cost substantially 
more than $15,000? 

Mr. Collins. For all of those conditions together, yes, sir. 

Mr. Yarmuth. So the odds are that if there were 20,000 rescis- 
sion cases over the last 5 years, the actual savings to the insurance 
companies, even though they might not be able to calculate it be- 
cause a lot of it is prospective, could be substantially more than 
$300 million. In fact, it could be in the billions of dollars. 

I will ask it another way. Is it unusual for a cancer regimen, a 
treatment regimen, to be in the hundreds of thousands of dollars? 

Mr. Collins. No, sir. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Right. I think the problem that a lot of us have 
is we look at the insurance company profits over the last few years 
in light of the rest of the indicators in the economy, we see 
WellPoint’s profits having increased in 7 years by something like 
1,300 percent from 200 and some million to 3. something billion 
and United HealthCare’s profits increasing over 500 percent in the 
same period of time. And we hear cases of rescission in which we 
know that literally hundreds of thousands of dollars per case could 
have been saved. 

And we question whether this is a policy that is being imple- 
mented, Mr. Sassi, as you said, to be shared to those people who 
don’t knowingly misrepresent the policies and whether it is strictly 
a financial consideration. 

And, I mean, we know that the premium increases of 100 percent 
in the individual market over that same period of time do not par- 
ticularly relate to costs in the economy. They don’t relate to salary 
increases. 

So I would say that we are trying to decide what to do. You 
know, I am very pleased to see that we have a pretty good con- 



71 


sensus of the fact that we need to do many of the things that we 
are talking about doing in Congress. 

I would basically say, to what can we attribute these incredible 
profit margins when we are trying to deal with making sure that 
individuals such as the ones we saw here are given the care that 
they need and that they contracted for? 

Mr. Sassi. Well, I can’t speak to the numbers because I haven’t 
seen the numbers, but going back 7 years, I think the large in- 
crease in profit numbers is not comparing necessarily apples to ap- 
ples. 

Seven years ago, WellPoint was a much, much smaller company. 
The last 7 years, we have merged with several other companies. 
And so I think that would account for much of which you — in fact, 
the last 7 years, our profit margins have not been going that well. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Mr. Collins, would you like to comment on that 
as well? 

Mr. Collins. Yes, sir. UnitedHealth Group has grown via acqui- 
sition, much as WellPoint has. And I think that the point that Mr. 
Sassi made around the comparability of numbers over time is one 
of those things. 

UnitedHealth Group is one of the largest health care organiza- 
tions in the United States. We touch 70 million American con- 
sumers. And we grow value to the system. And people pay us for 
the value that we add to the system. 

We help pull down costs. We help organize the care, the delivery 
of care. We are involved in just about every aspect of delivery. And 
most of the innovation that has come forward in the past 30 or 40 
years around health care delivery has been financed by and facili- 
tated by the health insurance industry. 

So I think that as one of America’s largest businesses, we are en- 
titled to a healthy profit margin. And we have been very prudent 
about our investments through this financial turmoil that we have 
had. And the company has got a good, sound balance sheet. It is 
in good shape to take care of the customers that meet its commit- 
ments. And we don’t apologize for that. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Let me just ask two quick questions, Mr. Chair- 
man. And then I will yield back my time. 

In light of what you have said, you indicated that there has been 
a fairly substantial concentration going on in the insurance market 
over the last decade. Is that a fair characterization of what you 
said? 

So that when opponents of what we are trying to do in Congress 
say, “Well, there is already substantial competition out there in the 
market,” what you are saying is that competition has diminished 
over the last decade. Is that true? 

Mr. Sassi. I would say that there has been a fair amount of con- 
solidation within the health insurance industry, but, as the Na- 
tion’s largest health insurer, insurance company, we still have on 
average only 30 percent market share. In the vast majority of our 
markets, there is healthy competition amongst literally tens, some- 
times hundreds of 

Mr. Yarmuth. You have 30 percent of the market share in the 
country. And UnitedHealth has how much? 

Mr. Collins. I don’t know off the top of my head. 



72 


Mr. Yarmuth. a substantial amount, right? And this represents 
substantial competition in your minds? I think your company in 
Kentucky controls 59 percent of the market. Do you consider that 
a healthy, competitive environment or are you just good at it? 

Mr. Collins. One of our toughest competitors is located right 
here in Louisville: Humana. 

Mr. Yarmuth. Thank you for that shout-out, yes. 

Mr. Collins. On the front lines, sir, I mean, there is quite a bit 
of competition. In fact, there has been a large number of new en- 
trants into the individual health insurance market. 

And I would urge the members of the Committee if they had a 
moment just to go to ehealthinsurance.com and put in your Zip 
code and see what pops up. You will find that there is a wide vari- 
ety of carriers. There is great transparency in the individual mar- 
ket in terms of price and product. And there is a lot of competition 
in this marketplace. We have had a lot of new entrants. 

Mr. Yarmuth. I would be interested, and I will do that. 

One final question. When you have somebody who has been in 
your individual market for 10 years and they have been paying 
premiums for 10 years and they end up like one of our former pan- 
elists and they have a serious illness and their policy ends up being 
subject to rescission, how is that handled? How do you handle all 
the premiums they have been paying you for all of those years? 

Mr. Sassi. WellPoint would not rescind the policy after 2 years. 
So if someone had been paying a premium for 10 years, we would 
not look at that, irregardless of 

Mr. Yarmuth. They were not the subject of rescission. OK. What 
if they fell within the 2-year period, if they have been paying for 
2 years? What would you do with their premiums? 

Mr. Sassi. Well, as I outlined in my testimony, we have a very 
thorough process where we review. We reach out to the members 
to see if there is any additional information the member could pro- 
vide. We share the information that we have. It goes to a com- 
mittee that is established with the doctor that makes the decision 
and multiple appeal processes, including binding third party appeal 
and a third party review. 

Mr. Yarmuth. That is all wonderful. What I am saying is if you 
decide to rescind their policy, they have been paying for 20 months 
and then you rescind their policy, what happens to the premiums 
they have been paying? 

Mr. Sassi. The premiums would be refunded less any claims that 
were paid. 

Mr. Yarmuth. OK. Is that the same policy you would have, Mr. 
Collins? 

Mr. Collins. We refund 100 percent of the premiums on the pol- 
icy. 

Mr. Yarmuth. OK. That is all I had, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. 

Mr. Stupak. Thank you, Mr. Yarmuth. Thanks again for joining 
us. Thanks. 

Well, let me ask this question just on competition. You say there 
is so much competition between you, between the insurance compa- 
nies. Isn’t it true that the insurance companies are not subject to 
antitrust laws? 

Mr. Collins. I am not prepared to answer that question, sir. 



73 


Mr. Stupak. Maybe Mr. Sassi? 

Mr. Sassi. I am not an attorney. 

Mr. Stupak. So when the Energy and Commerce Committee does 
the markup of H.R. 3200, the national health care bill, when I offer 
my amendment to take away the antitrust exemption for insurance 
companies, you have no objection to that? 

Mr. Collins. Sir, my testimony was I am not prepared to testify 
on that. And I am really not an expert in antitrust matters in any 
way, shape, or form. 

Mr. Stupak. It is only the insurance industry and Major League 
Baseball that are not subject to antitrust laws. Therefore, you can 
set the profits wherever you want. And we would have no recourse. 

Competition. The average health insurance premium for Indiana 
employers and employees went from $6,628 in 2000 to over $12,153 
in 2007. In that group, 116 percent were individuals and 75 per- 
cent for employers. Doesn’t that account for the huge profits you 
had? 

Mr. Sassi. I think that probably accounts for an increase in 
health care costs. 

Mr. Stupak. Well, accounting for the increase in health care 
costs has been why would your profits according to SEC go from 
2.4 billion to 12.9 billion? 

And if you take WellPoint, Mr. Sassi, your profits increased from 
226 million in 2000 to 3.45 billion? To me, that is a 1,380 percent 
increase. So it can’t be health care costs. It has got to be the record 
premiums you are charging people. 

Mr. Sassi. Well, as I have previously testified, looking back at 
the starting points, WellPoint was a much different company. And 
we have grown dramatically through acquisitions of other compa- 
nies. 

Mr. Stupak. Sure. 

Mr. Sassi. So I don’t think it is an apples to apples comparison. 

Mr. Stupak. Sure, but you said that the reason why premiums 
went up is because health care costs so much nowadays, costs so 
much to deliver health care. Then if that is the case, you would be 
paying out more money, and your profits would be less. You 
wouldn’t be having a 1,380 percent increase. 

Mr. Sassi. Chairman, the point that I was trying to make is that 
7 years ago, we were a company of a million members. And now 
we are a company that insures over 35 million members 

Mr. Stupak. Sure. 

Mr. Sassi [continuing]. With a combination of many companies. 

Mr. Stupak. Sure. But you said the reason why you had to 
charge, you went from $6,600 to $12,000, was because health care 
costs went up. But, of course, corresponding is the fact that your 
profits also went up 1,380 percent when the cost of health care ba- 
sically went up 116 percent. There is quite a disparity there, no 
matter how many people you cover. If you cover more people, you 
would have more costs. 

Let me ask you this question. The American Insurance Plans 
wrote us a letter. Are you both a member of AHIP, America’s 
Health Insurance Plan? 

Mr. Collins. Yes. 

Mr. Sassi. Yes. 



74 


Mr. Stupak. I want to ask a question about no longer doing re- 
scissions without intentional fraud. You know, I know today you 
sort of danced around it. After I asked a question in Washington, 
the AHIP wrote a letter, said, “Well, the companies focused their 
responses on specific legal standard referenced in the question. 
They will not rescind an individual’s coverage on the basis of a pre- 
existing medical condition which the policyholder was unaware of 
at the time he or she applied for coverage.” 

So will you commit today that you will not rescind an individ- 
ual’s coverage on the basis of a preexisting medical condition which 
the policyholder was unaware of? Will you commit to that today, 
Mr. Sassi? 

Mr. Sassi. Yes. I previously testified to that this morning. 

Mr. Stupak. You, too, Mr. Collins? 

Mr. Collins. Yes, sir. That is the knowing standard I was testi- 
fying to earlier. 

Mr. Stupak. OK. Then it goes on to say, “And are you commit- 
ting that you will only rescind the policy to the policyholder as ma- 
terially misrepresenting their knowledge, health status or his- 
tory?”; so a material misrepresentation. Is that correct? You do 
that? 

Mr. Collins. Yes, sir, material misrepresentation or omission on 
the application. 

Mr. Stupak. Is that your standard, too? 

Mr. Sassi. Yes, that is our standard. 

Mr. Stupak. OK. So we are making some progress. Let me ask 
you this. Mr. Sassi, Mr. Hill asked you a number of questions 
about victims of rescission here in Indiana. 

And our Committee also asked you questions and asked for your 
cooperation so we could contact them. In fact, last week we sent 
you a letter listing four cases here in Indiana. And they were case 
number 59-717-60, number 65-86, number 67-20, and number 
65-83. And we asked you to send these people a letter and ask 
them to contact the Committee. And you refused, saying that you 
could not do that. 

Why did you refuse to contact these policyholders? 

Mr. Sassi. It is our understanding that the request being asked 
of us would have violated HIPAA. 

Mr. Stupak. How would it violate HIPAA when the insurance 
company is contacting their policyholder? 

Mr. Sassi. Again, I am not an attorney. And I believe that our 
attorneys were working closely with the Committee staff to deter- 
mine if and how we could comply with your request. 

Mr. Stupak. Well, we checked with CRS and everyone else that 
under privacy laws, your company, WellPoint, clearly falls within 
the definition of a covered entity. And you are permitted to use or 
disclose an individual’s protected health information to the indi- 
vidual. It was up to the individual to contact us. 

So would you contact those folks and have them contact our 
Committee? 

Mr. Sassi. I will take that under advisement and speak with our 
legal team. 

Mr. Stupak. OK. Maybe we will have to use our — let me ask you 
this, then. The Reilling case, Ms. Reilling who was here, why did 



75 


you cancel her out? Do you still offer these one-group policies, these 
one-person group policies? 

Mr. Sassi. Chairman, Ms. Reilling’s case, here today was the 
first that I had heard of that case. While she was testifying, we did 
do some research. And Ms. Reilling was covered under an employee 
policy issued hy Kentucky Retail Federation. 

Mr. Stupak. Correct. 

Mr. Sassi. So it was an employer plan. And apparently the eligi- 
bility rules of that employer plan indicate that groups must have 
two members. And so it is my understanding that the association, 
Kentucky Retail Federation, does not insure groups of one. 

Mr. Stupak. Are you saying Kentucky Retail Federation told you 
to cancel Ms. Reilling’s? 

Mr. Sassi. They are the policyholder. 

Mr. Stupak. Really? So for the last 15 years when you allowed 
Ms. Reilling to have this policy, did Kentucky Retail Federation 
pay that premium? 

Mr. Sassi. Chairman, again, this is the first I am hearing about 
this. We would be happy to investigate the situation 

Mr. Stupak. Mr. Sassi. 

Mr. Sassi [continuing]. And provide something for the record. 

Mr. Stupak. You are under oath. 

Mr. Sassi. Yes. 

Mr. Stupak. You are not here telling us that Kentucky Retail 
Federation was responsible for providing Ms. Reilling a policy. You 
were. You didn’t go through Kentucky Retail Federation to provide 
a policy or even to contact Ms. Reilling on her policy. 

Everything, every document you have had, everything you have 
seen — and if you did your due diligence, everything is between your 
insurance company and Ms. Reilling or your insurance company 
and Ms. Reilling’s agent. There is no Kentucky Federation. 

Mr. Sassi. Chairman, again, based on my limited understanding 
of the situation, my understanding is that Ms. Reilling was covered 
under a policy issued 

Mr. Stupak. Do you still write single-person group policies? 

Mr. Sassi. I believe other associations. Associations do have that 
option. 

Mr. Stupak. So you still write single-person policy coverage? 

Mr. Sassi. I can’t definitively say. Again, I would be happy to re- 
search the matter and provide a response for the record. 

Mr. Stupak. Well, you did for her for 15 years. So why was she 
canceled? Was it because she was sick in the last year? 

Mr. Sassi. Chairman, unfortunately, you have exhausted my 
knowledge of the situation. Again, I would be happy to research it 
and provide a response for the record. 

Mr. Stupak. OK. You said federal privacy laws prevented you 
from contacting your own policyholders to contact our Committee 
if they so choose. Under Ms. Reilling’s case, federal law, HIPAA, 
prevents you from canceling a contract that is in effect. You can’t 
go back and cancel it under HIPAA law. 

So why did you cancel it? It seems like you rely on federal law 
when it is in your best interest, but when it is not in your interest, 
you don’t follow federal law. 



76 


Mr. Sassi. Again, my understanding is that Ms. Reilling was cov- 
ered under an employer contract. 

Mr. Stupak. For 15 years. 

Mr. Sassi. It has eligibility requirements. And, again, I would be 
happy to research it. I don’t know if 

Mr. Stupak. So, Professor, under HIPAA, could they cancel Ms. 
Reilling’s policy? 

Ms. Kinney. I would be reluctant to answer without all of the 
facts, but the purpose of HIPAA is to enable people to maintain 
their policy. 

Mr. Stupak. And then HIPAA says you can’t cancel unless you 
have 

Ms. Kinney. Unless you have the statutory standard that is in- 
cluded in your excellent supplemental report and basically inten- 
tional misrepresentation or failure to pay the premium. 

Mr. Stupak. Right. And she was able to. In fact, they even sent 
Ms. Reilling a renewal. They sent her a renewal, and then they 
sent her a rescission, all in the same month. But HIPAA prohibits 
insurance companies from rescinding or otherwise discontinuing in- 
dividual insurance coverage unless there’s been a fraud or inten- 
tional misrepresentation of a material fact by the applicant. 

Ms. Kinney. The problem with HIPAA is that I think it doesn’t 
go far enough. It does not address rescissions. A rescission is when 
you have the contract that existed in the first place. 

Mr. Stupak. Sure. 

Ms. Kinney. It is like an annulment versus a divorce. 

Mr. Stupak. She wasn’t rescinded. She was just failed to renew. 
And HIPAA goes on to state that “A health insurance issuer that 
provides individual health insurance coverage to an individual 
shall” — it is mandatory 

Ms. Kinney. Right, but HIPAA 

Mr. Stupak [continuing]. “Renew or continue in force such cov- 
erage at the option of the individual,” Ms. Reilling. 

Ms. Kinney. Right. 

Mr. Stupak. So under HIPAA, the failure to renew here since 
they did it for 15 years straight puts you in violation of law. 

Ms. Kinney. It would be my view that they are in violation of 
the law having seen what is before us before. 

Mr. Stupak. Let me ask you this. Professor, if I may. In your 
chart, page 3 

Ms. Kinney. Yes. 

Mr. Stupak [continuing]. It is interesting when I was looking at 
it. It looks like basically from a child until age 60, the premiums 
for women are always higher until you hit 60. Then finally the men 
have a higher premium. Now, I understand there are child-bearing 
years in there, but is there any reason for that or is that just coin- 
cidence? 

Ms. Kinney. I would really have to give that to underwriting and 
actuarial science, which always is a mysterious process. And I 
think that these are determined based on the experiences that the 
insurance industry generally has with people in this age, sex, and 
so forth. 

Mr. Stupak. You agree with me, though, these four plans laid 
out until age 60, women pay higher premiums than men? 



77 


Ms. Kinney. Right. I saw that, too. I mean, I was putting this 
together basically Thursday, Friday. And I was kind of struck by 
that observation, too. 

Mr. Stupak. Well, let me go back to Mr. Collins and Mr. Sassi 
since our first panel was all women. I am not trying to come to con- 
clusions here, but do you charge women more? Do they have great- 
er health risks than men as a general rule, Mr. Collins? 

Mr. Collins. In Golden Rule’s actuarial duties, the individual 
policies that we sell, if you stacked up the policyholders through 
age 65, men would pay slightly more than women over the course 
of a lifetime if you took 1 policyholder for each age and laid them 
out. 

Mr. Stupak. Right. But of the 60, women pay higher according 
to the professor’s chart. Is there a reason for that? 

Mr. Collins. Well, that is the Indiana high-risk pool that you 
are looking at. I don’t think it 

Ms. Cutter. Yes. 

Mr. Stupak. Yes, you are right. 

Ms. Cutter. Mr. Chairman, if I may? 

Mr. Stupak. Sure. 

Ms. Cutter. That is from the Indiana Comprehensive Health In- 
surance Association. Those actuarial bases are established by a na- 
tional firm called Millimen. 

Mr. Stupak. Right. 

Ms. Cutter. And they use data from multiple areas to determine 
what the prices should be for individual contracts in Indiana based 
on geography, age, gender, that sort of thing. 

Mr. Stupak. Surely. Didn’t it strike you as funny as the Insur- 
ance Commissioner that up to age 60, women pay more than men? 

Ms. Cutter. Women generally pay more for health insurance 
during those child-bearing years from about 20 up until about 50. 
And then it starts to more even out, as you have noticed, that by 
age 60, then, the men are tending to catch up. 

The other thing that 

Mr. Stupak. Well, I guess I would agree with that up to maybe 
19 to 40-45, but even as a child, it seems like it is the boys who 
are jumping off roofs. It is not young girls. Why would they pay 
more or why between 50 and 60, they would pay more? 

Ms. Cutter. I would have to look at the actuarial data that 
Millimen has collected in order to generate those pricings. But 
most of the time, women tend to be more careful about their health 
than men tend to be until they get into those upper ages, when, 
unfortunately, our bodies just don’t work as well as they had 20 or 
30 years previously. And I think that is the point at which men’s 
health starts to catch up in terms of cost with women’s health. 

We would be glad to get that information from Millimen, Mr. 
Chairman, if you would like to have that. 

Mr. Stupak. Let me ask you this question, if I may. I want to 
make sure I understood this right. So if I write an insurance policy 
in Indiana, an individual policy, after 2 years, I can’t rescind it, no 
matter what? 

Ms. Cutter. That is correct. The incontestability clause only ad- 
dresses the first 2 years of a policy. I believe Mr. Sassi made a 
comment earlier in his testimony where you asked him if somebody 



78 


had paid a premium for 10 years and, all of a sudden, you found 
out there was something wrong with the policy, you couldn’t cancel 
it. His answer to that was no. 

Mr. Stupak. ok. So there is no rescission after 2 years. Have 
you investigated rescission practices here in Indiana? 

Ms. Cutter. We have. We have had 14 of those investigated for 
the year 2008. 

Mr. Stupak. So 14. And what were those reasons for rescinding 
those 14? 

Ms. Cutter. There are multiple reasons. Generally speaking, as 
I said earlier, they were for a claim that was related to a critical 
condition that had not been revealed on the application by the ap- 
plicant. 

Mr. Stupak. So intentionally not renewed or unintentionally? It 
made no difference? 

Ms. Cutter. There were about three or four of those cases where 
we concluded similar circumstances to Ms. Raddatz’s testimony, 
where there was information that the doctor had indicated in med- 
ical records that the patient was completely unaware of And, 
therefore, in those circumstances, rescission was withdrawn or 
other terms are transforming with that at the 10-4 coverage with 
the weight for a particular provision. 

Mr. Stupak. Let me ask you this. In your testimony, you said, 
“Our policy analysts also review the language contained in any ap- 
plications used for individual health policies to make certain that 
there are no all-inclusive or have you ever or questions using med- 
ical terminology too complex for the average consumer to under- 
stand. No insurer may use an application without our stamped ap- 
proval on that form.” Is that correct? 

Ms. Cutter. Yes, sir, it is. 

Mr. Stupak. The binder right there, the red book right there, 
would you take a look at it in tab number 18? That is actually tab 
number 18 is actually AMBIEN’s individual application kit. And if 
you go to page — I believe it is page — let me find it here — page 8, 
start with question, it looks like, 16 there on that form. It says, “In 
the last 5 years, have you had an illness, physical injury persisting 
or new physical and/or health problems not mentioned elsewhere in 
this application that you have not been evaluated for that you plan 
to have evaluated by a licensed health practitioner?” 

It sounds like this sort of question is sort of an all-inclusive, 
“Have you ever?” type question. 

Ms. Cutter. Well, it is limited to a time element of 5 years look- 
ing back. 

Mr. Stupak. OK. So it is everything you had in 5 years. 

Ms. Cutter. Exactly. We don’t like questions that say, “Have you 
ever?” just as you had stated. 

Mr. Stupak. OK. So you don’t like that question, but they do 
have that in there, right? 

Ms. Cutter. Well, giving a time limit that we will allow them 
to say, “In the last 5 years, has anything else happened to you that 
hasn’t been previously asked?” 

Mr. Stupak. So if you ever had a common cold, you should put 
that down, too, in the last 5 years? I am not trying to be flippant, 
but 



79 


Ms. Cutter. No. I totally understand. 

Mr. Stupak. ok. Well, then, another question — and here is 
where I am on page 16 because you have got to help me out with 
this one. 

Ms. Cutter. On page 16? 

Mr. Stupak. I am sorry. Question 16 on page 8. 

Ms. Cutter. All right. 

Mr. Stupak. “Within 5 years, have you ever been diagnosed with 
or treated for any of the following?” and “Kelosi’s enditis, Oucher’s 
disease, pneumocystic carinii pneumonia, and sploridia”? What are 
those? 

Ms. Cutter. Those are diseases that if you had had a diagnosis 
for, you were going to know that disease. 

Mr. Stupak. Sure. Can you tell me what they are? I mean, I 
might have it and no one ever told me. 

Ms. Cutter. I can tell you what several of them are. I can’t tell 
you what every single one of them is. 

Mr. Stupak. Well, what is Kelosi’s enditis? 

Ms. Cutter. You would ask the one that I don’t know. 

Mr. Stupak. Well, you don’t even know what the common name 
of it is? Is it like tendinitis? I don’t know. 

Ms. Cutter. No. I think 

Mr. Stupak. Do we know what 

Ms. Cutter. I think it is much more serious than 

Mr. Stupak. OK. How about Oucher’s disease? What is that? 

Ms. Cutter. I don’t know that one either. Hemophilia I know, 
muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis. 

Mr. Stupak. Oh, yes. Yes. I think we all know those. 

Ms. Cutter. Right, right. 

Mr. Stupak. But there are about six terms there I have no idea. 
But isn’t your job to weed these out to make sure it is a common 
understanding so we don’t make a misrepresentation on the appli- 
cation forms, we don’t get behind? 

Ms. Cutter. Absolutely it is our job and my 

Mr. Stupak. Can you go back and look at this application and 
see if there is something we should do to improve upon it? 

Ms. Cutter. My point would be that those specific conditions 
that are listed are so unusual that you are not going to have one 
of those without a doctor having made a diagnosis ab^out that par- 
ticular condition because they are relatively serious conditions. 

Mr. Stupak. Sure. So you are saying because one of those words 
is on there, someone might have said that to me, I should know 
it, right? And I should know what the illness is? 

Ms. Cutter. I would say if you have been given a diagnosis by 
a physician for one of those conditions, you would be well-aware of 
that condition. 

Mr. Stupak. I see. OK. Do you support on rescission the Con- 
necticut approach, which basically prohibits post-claims, under- 
writing? Companies must do their underwriting up front. Do you 
support that idea? 

Ms. Cutter. I would certainly entertain that idea. Our concern 
would be what kind of time line that would involve because I have 
to tell you very honestly that most physicians’ offices — and not that 



80 


I blame them for this — insurance papers are the last thing that 
they will deal with in a physician office. 

Mr. Stupak. Well, do you think it is fair you would be accepting, 
insurance companies accept, your premiums while they don’t know 
if they are going to accept it or not? Shouldn’t they have all of the 
information up front? 

Ms. Cutter. I think that there probably is a deeper level of in- 
formation that could be collected up front. I would agree absolutely 
with that. 

Mr. Stupak. How about the fact that in Connecticut, the State 
insurance commissioner reviews all rescissions and makes a deci- 
sion within 15 days? State Insurance Commission and the party 
have to make a decision within 15 days. Do you think that is fair? 

Ms. Cutter. We would be actually open to that sort of consider- 
ation. 

Mr. Stupak. OK. Is there an appeal process in Indiana? If I get 
rescinded, who do I appeal to? 

Ms. Cutter. The Department of Insurance. And we investigate 
the rescission circumstances and have the ability to work with the 
insurers to either overturn that rescission or make other arrange- 
ments for the policyholder to have coverage. 

Mr. Stupak. Mr. Sassi, you said that WellPoint has an appeal 
process, right? 

Mr. Sassi. Yes. 

Mr. Stupak. How come Ms. Reilling wasn’t given an appeal proc- 
ess when you canceled her insurance? 

Mr. Sassi. We do have an appeal process. Again, I am unfamiliar 
with the details in Ms. Reilling’s case. Everyone covered under in- 
surance has an appeal process and particularly for rescissions in 
the individual market. As I detailed in my testimony 

Mr. Stupak. Right. 

Mr. Sassi [continuing]. We have multiple levels of appeal proc- 
ess. 

Mr. Stupak. That is why I am confused. You canceled Ms. 
Reilling without any appeal process. The letter just says: You are 
out of luck. We will offer you something else, but we are not going 
to offer you that. 

Mr. Sassi. Again, my understanding is Ms. Reilling was not cov- 
ered under an individual insurance policy. She was covered under 
an employer group policy. 

Mr. Stupak. So if you are covered underneath a group policy, you 
don’t get an appeal process? 

Mr. Sassi. No. We do. All of our policyholders do have an appeal 
process, grievance and appeal. 

Mr. Stupak. Then she should have an appeal process, right? 

Mr. Sassi. Absolutely. 

Mr. Stupak. Well, take a look at the binder there, number 23 
right there. I don’t see anywhere it says she has an appeal process. 
It says, “Thank you for considering us. We have been around for 
over 60 years. We have helped people in the community get cov- 
erage. We are writing to your application. We deny you. We will 
offer you something else.” 

Mr. Sassi. Well, I think 



81 


Mr. Stupak. “And if you have life insurance, you are denied 
also.” But I don’t see anywhere it says any kind of appeal process 
or anything. 

Mr. Sassi. Well, I think this letter does not pertain to her losing 
eligibility in her group insurance policy. She would have an appeal 
process with her group policy. It looks like — and, again, this is the 
first time I am looking at this — that this is the declamation for in- 
dividual insurance. 

Mr. Stupak. So you are saying that she would have gotten a let- 
ter that describes an appeal process when you denied her her cov- 
erage? Somewhere it would have said she would have gotten an ap- 
peal, “You have a right to an appeal”? 

Mr. Sassi. Well, if she was covered under the association 
plan, 

Mr. Stupak. Right. 

Mr. Sassi [continuing]. As I understand 

Mr. Stupak. Right. 

Mr. Sassi [continuing]. The employer, I believe, was responsible 
for providing the appeal rights. 

Mr. Stupak. The Kentucky Federation of Business had to pro- 
vide her her appeal rights. Why wouldn’t you? You are the insur- 
ance company. 

Mr. Sassi. Well, it is an employer plan. And appeal rights are 
covered in all of our member 

Mr. Stupak. She is her own employer. She was an employer. So 
how would she tell herself to appeal? 

Mr. Sassi. Again, she was a member of a larger group. 

Mr. Stupak. Kentucky Retail Federation and Better Business. So 
the federation had to tell her her appeal rights? How would they 
know your appeal rights? Wouldn’t you know your appeal rights? 
Wouldn’t your company know? You are expecting 

Mr. Sassi. All members have access to appeal rights. It is in the 
member certificates that we issue to members. 

Mr. Stupak. Let me ask you this, then. I mentioned section 162. 
That is the section in the pertinent part of the health care bill we 
are marking up in committee. When I say “marking up,” we are 
amending it and altering it and maybe change it as it goes to the 
full floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for a vote. 

Basically what the bill says is a health insurance insurer may re- 
scind health insurance coverage only upon clear and convincing evi- 
dence of fraud. So would you agree with that, Mr. Sassi, that they 
can only rescind based on clear and convincing evidence of fraud? 

Mr. Sassi. Well, when looking at the House bill 

Mr. Stupak. Right. 

Mr. Sassi [continuing]. That is before you today, looking at re- 
scission in the context of eliminating medical underwriting, having 
a guarantee issue in the individual market, coupled with effective 
and enforceable personal coverage requirement, we do agree with 
the rescission statements that are in the bill. 

On a stand-alone basis, that is taking pieces out of context, but 
we do agree with the premise. Coupled with elimination of that 
preliminary thing in an enforceable personal coverage requirement, 
yes, we would agree with what is in the bill. 

Mr. Stupak. Mr. Collins, do you agree with what is in the bill? 



82 


Mr. Collins. Well, sir, we would certainly agree in the context 
of health care reform agenda that the House is pursuing that in- 
cludes enforceable mandate, subsidies for low-income people. It is 
important that the pool of people who are outside of coverage be 
as small as possible and that we get as many people covered as we 
can in order to make this work effectively because affordability is 
the primary barrier to access. 

Mr. Stupak. Right, but I am not asking about affordability. I am 
asking about health insurance insurers may rescind health insur- 
ance coverage only upon clear and convincing evidence of fraud. 
Would you agree with that? 

Mr. Collins. Well, sir, I would agree with the overall context of 
health care reform, that that is a workable standard, yes, sir. 

Mr. Stupak. OK. Well, then the legislation has another provision 
that requires insurance companies to provide “the individual with 
notice of such proposed rescission and an opportunity for review by 
an independent external third party.” Do you agree with that? 

Mr. Collins. Well, sir, there is a host of — most states have some 
sort of external third party review requirements in place today for 
claim review, for claims that are denied, and 

Mr. Stupak. Well, this is for rescission. So would you agree that 
there should be 

Mr. Collins. Well, I am drawing an analogy, sir. 

Mr. Stupak. OK. 

Mr. Collins. I think that those processes work fairly well for us. 

Mr. Stupak. So you have no problem with that, then? 

Mr. Collins. Certainly in the context of reform, it would be a 
valuable service to the public, sir. 

Mr. Stupak. Mr. Sassi, do you agree it should be an independent 
third party review? 

Mr. Sassi. In 2008, WellPoint already implemented an inde- 
pendent third party review. So we have no issue with this. 

Mr. Stupak. Why didn’t Ms. Reilling get an independent third 
party review, then, if you had it in there as a company policy since 
2008? She was denied here in this month, June. 

Mr. Sassi. Again, Ms. Reilling was not covered under an indi- 
vidual insurance policy. 

Mr. Stupak. So only individuals have third party review. If I am 
a part of a group, don’t I get third party review? 

Mr. Sassi. Currently. That was a change we made to our rescis- 
sion practices in the individual market. 

Mr. Stupak. So if you are a group, you are out of luck? 

Mr. Sassi. You have other appeal rights. 

Mr. Stupak. OK. I have to go through my employer to find out 
what they are or does your company tell us what they are? 

Mr. Sassi. We issue certificates of coverage that detail the bene- 
fits in each of our plans. And each of those certificates of coverage 
has appeal rights. 

Mr. Stupak. Professor, it sounds like we are playing semantics 
here. Are we in a way? 

Ms. Kinney. Well, I mean, different classifications do have mean- 
ings, but it does seem that the witness earlier that Ms. Reilling 
had appeal rights. They ought to have been fairly clearly expressed 
to her and accessible. 



83 


Mr. Stupak. One of the things I have asked the Committee to 
do is have an amendment ready that not only do you have only re- 
scission based on an intentional fraud and proven by clear and con- 
vincing evidence but also have an independent third party review 
but give it 30 days. Is that reasonable? Connecticut has 15 days. 

I guess I am trying to stop this post writing after 30 days and 
also have an independent review done within 30 days because if 
you are waiting for your bone marrow transplant, you don’t have 
a lot of time. 

Ms. Kinney. Well, you might have an expedited process for that 
kind of a review. For example, with Medicare appeals processes, 
they have an expedited process for appealing coverage decisions 
that are life-threatening ostensibly. 

But here I think that the insurance industry should be able to 
investigate a policy, but they need to do it in my judgment in a 
shorter period of time and not be permitted for 2 years to engage 
in what is basically post-claim underwriting. 

Now, I think what gets to us and however you address it but 
what seems offensive to many is the ability to go back and review 
a chart and review statements looking for some kind of factor that 
would give rise to a conclusion that there had been a known mis- 
representation. 

I think that that is the practice that we really need to go after 
and to clarify what is knowing. And also I thought maybe coming 
over this morning that you might put in some kind of requirement 
that a decision based on a review of medical record — if the insur- 
ance company has the medical record, they have it for 3 months, 
then they need to look at the medical record in that period of time 
and make a decision about whether that complies with the policy 
up front before even any claims were submitted. 

Mr. Stupak. Yes. It seemed like before they take your premium, 
they should give you some determination based upon the records, 
correct? 

Ms. Kinney. Right. I suppose that the rationale would be that 
if you then — you know, once you take a premium, you do have in- 
surance and that that speeds up the process of getting insurance. 
And you might have a situation where you have a delay in cov- 
erage if you have too many requirements up front. 

But, as I understand it, another aspect of the insurance industry, 
you can issue riders and temporary insurance to cover that time. 
It seems to me a problem that does have a solution. 

Mr. Stupak. Is it fair to say that at your Center for Law and 
Health or Health and Law, if you have a health insurance policy 
and you are terminated, is it fair to say it is very, very difficult to 
get insurance coverage? 

Ms. Kinney. I think that the testimony and the information that 
has been garnered in these hearings suggest that is the case. And 
certainly in our research we did years ago, which it is probably a 
little dated, but once you have been canceled, it is hard to get in- 
surance. 

Mr. Stupak. All right. Let me just take a look at one more thing 
here. Mr. Sassi, you said that the first time you heard about Ms. 
Reilling’s case was today. Will you commit that you will have the 



84 


company take a look at that and make sure that Ms. Reilling’s 
rights were protected before you terminated that policy? 

Mr. Sassi. Yes, sir. 

Mr. Stupak. ok. Well, I want to thank you all for coming. That 
is going to conclude our questioning today. I want to thank all of 
the witnesses for coming today and your testimony. 

The Committee rules provide that members have 10 days to sub- 
mit additional questions for the record. I will ask unanimous con- 
sent that contents of the document binder will be entered into the 
record provided the Committee staff may redact any information 
that has business propriety or relates to privacy concerns or is law 
enforcement-sensitive. Without objection, the documents will be en- 
tered into the record. 

[The information appears at the conclusion of the hearing.] 

Mr. Stupak. That concludes the hearing of the Subcommittee. 
Thank you all for coming. Thank you for participating. And thank 
you for being good hosts here in Indiana. 

[Whereupon, at 1:00 p.m., the foregoing matter was concluded.] 

[Material submitted for inclusion in the record follows:] 



85 



July 27, 2009 

HEALTH INSURANCE CEOs REFUSE TO STOP 
CANCELING INNOCENT POLICYHOLDERS 

Committee on Energy and Commerce 


On June 1 6, 2009, the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the House 
Committee on Energy and Commerce held a hearing to receive testimony from CEOs 
of three of the largest insurance companies that offer individual health insurance plans, 
Assurant Health, WellPoint, Inc., and Golden Rule Insurance Company, 

As part of a year-long investigation, the Committee examined more than 1 i 6,000 
pages of documents showing that these companies retroactively terminated, or 
“rescinded," nearly 20,000 policies over the past five years based on omissions in 
applications that the companies identified only after the policyholders became ill. 

These rescissions resulted in savings to the companies of more than $300 million. 

The documents revealed numerous cases in which the companies rescinded policies 
for omissions that were based on health conditions completely unknown to the 
policyholders, unrelated to the illnesses being treated, unintentional, or caused by 
others, including the insurance companies' own agents. 

When confronted with these examples, all three CEOs testified under oath that they 
would not stop rescinding innocent policyholders. Testimony also revealed that 
policyholders rescinded by one insurance company cannot obtain insurance from 
other insurance companies. 

Insurance company CEOs refused to stop canceling health Insurance coverage for 
Innocent policyholders. 

At the hearing on June 16, Rep. Bart Stupak (D-MI), Chairman of the Subcommittee, 
asked the CEOs to stop rescinding coverage for innocent policyholders, but all three 
refused: 

Chairman Stupak; Would you commit today that your company will never 
rescind another policy unless there wos intentional fraudulent misrepresentation in 
the application? 

Don Hamm (CEO, Assurant Health): I would not commit to that. ... 

Richard Collins (CEO, Golden Rule): No, sir. We follow the State laws and 
regulations and we would not stipulate to that. ... 

John Sassi (CEO, Consumer Business, WellPoint); No, I can't commit fo that. 




86 


Policyholders rescinded bv one Insurance company cannot obtain insurance from 
other companies. 

Representative Greg Walden (R-OR), Ranking Republican Member of the 
Subcommittee, asked whether the CEOs deny coverage to innocent applicants 
who have been rescinded by other insurance companies without conducting 
any further inquiry or investigation to determine whether the originai rescission 
was legitimate: 

Rep. Walden: "Is it your company's policy to deny coverage to any applicant 
that discloses that he or she has had previous policies rescinded?" ... 

Don Hamm (CEO, Assurant Health): "Yes, we would not provide coverage in that 
situation." 

Rep. Walden: "So do you ever look to see ... the circumstances around another 
company's rescinding of a policy?" 

Don Hamm: "Our underwriting guidelines are that we would not issue that 
policy." 

The testimony from the CEOs elicited condemnation from both Democrats ond 
Republicans on the Committee. 

Rep. Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), Chairman of the full Committee on Energy and 
Commerce, stated thot "the market for individual health insurance in the United States 
is fundamentally flawed." 

And Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX), the Ranking Republican on the Committee, stated: 

"I think I speak for every member of the Committee on both sides of the aisle ... 
that If in fact there is a practice of going in after the fact and canceling policies 
on technicalities, we have got to do whatever is possible to prevent that. ... [IJf a 
citizen acts in good faith, we should expect the insurance companies who take 
their money to act in good faith also." 

For information on the Committee's investigation and video of the CEO testimony, see 
http://energycommerce.house.gov/Press_l 1 1/200906 16/rescission_supplemental.pdf. 





87 



July 27, 2009 

INSURANCE COMPANY CEO CANNOT EXPLAIN 
HIS COMPANY’S OWN APPLICATION FORM 

Committee on Energy and Commerce 


On June 16, 2009, the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the House 
Committee on Energy and Commerce held a hearing to receive testimony from CEOs 
of three of the largest insurance companies that offer individual health insurance plans, 
Assurant Health, WellPoint, Inc., and Golden Rule Insurance Company. 

As part of a year-long investigation, the Committee examined more than 1 1 6,000 
pages of documents showing that these companies retroactively terminated, or 
“rescinded," nearly 20,000 policies over the past five years based on omissions in 
applications that the companies identified only after the policyholders became ill. 
These rescissions resulted in savings to the companies of more than $300 million. 


The documents revealed numerous cases in which the companies rescinded policies 
for omissions that were based on health conditions completely unknown to the 
policyholders, unrelated to the illnesses being treated, unintentional, or caused by 
others, including the insurance companies' own agents. The insurance applications 
were often vague, confusing, and filled with medical jargon that most applicants do 
not understand. 

In his testimony on June 16, the CEO of Assurant Health, Don Hamm, stated: 

Assurant Health's enrollment questionnaires are written in simple, easy-to- 
understand, straight-fonvard language so that people can easily and accurately 
report their medical history. 


When Chairman Bart Stupak asked Mr. Hamm to define some of the terms on his 
company’s application, however, Mr. Hamm could not. 

Chairman Stupak: [Y]ou said Assurant Health's enrollment questionnaires are 
simple, easy to understand, straightforward language, so people can easily and 
accurately report their medical history. So your question says, within the last 1 0 
years, has any proposed insured had any diagnosis, received treatment for, or 
consulted with a physician concerning phlebitis, TIA, cystitis, lymphadenopathy, 
glandular disorder. So tell me, what is TIA? 

Donn Hamm (CEO, Assurant Health): I am not aware... 

Chairman Stupak: If you don't know what it is, how would anyone filling out your 
application know what it is? So there is grounds to deny them right there. You 





88 


don't even know what it is and neither do I. How about phlebitis or 
lymphadenopathy? How about tymphadenopathy? What is that? 

Mr, Hamm: I don't know the answer to those questions. 

Chairman Stupak: Do you sincerely believe that an average applicant would 
know what these words mean if you don't know and I don't know? 

Mr. Hamm: Sir, I believe that is an application that is not currently used at this 
time. ... 

Chairman Stupak: it is last year's application. ... Have you changed the 
application in the last year? ... 

Mr. Hamm: I am not aware if we have changed that application. 

Chairman Stupak: So far as you know, that is your current application? 

Mr. Hamm: But I believe that our current application asks questions back to 5 
years, so the 10-year might be different than what we issue today, ... 

Chairman Stupak: Well, it is the same questions, TIA, right, that you don't know 
what it is. ... 

Mr. Hamm: I do not know what that is. 

For information on the Committee's investigation and video of the CEO testimony, see 
http://energycommerce.house.gov/Press_l 1 1 /2CI09061 6/rescission_supplemental.pdf. 


2 




89 



July 27, 2009 

CASE STUDIES; Examples of Healfh Insurance 
Companies Rescinding Individual Policies 

Committee on Energy and Commerce 


As part of a year-long investigation into business practices in the individual health 
insurance market, the Committee examined more than 1 16,000 pages of documents 
from three of the country's largest health insurance carriers, Assurant Health, WellPoint 
Inc., and UnitedHealth Group. The investigation revealed that these companies 
retroactively terminated, or “rescinded," nearly 20,000 policies over the past five years 
based on omissions in applications that the companies identified only after the 
policyholders became ill. These rescissions resulted in savings to the companies of more 
than $300 million. 

The documents revealed numerous cases in which the companies rescinded policies 
for omissions fhat were based on health conditions completely unknown to the 
policyholders, unrelated to the illnesses being treated, unintentional, or caused by 
others, including the insurance companies' own agents. In some cases, companies 
rescinded not only individual policyholders, but their family members as well. 

Examples of rescissions include the following: 

• Concer Patient Cancelled for not Disclosino Diagnosis He Never Received 
flndionof : A WellPoint subsidiary in Indiana rescinded a policyholder's coverage 
in 2006 after he developed neck cancer related to a history of smoking. The 
company based the rescission on the policyholder's failure to disclose a history of 
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), a disease the policyholder never 
knew he had. The policyholder's doctor informed WellPoint that he had never 
informed the patient of a COPD diagnosis. After the policyholder hired an 
attorney and threatened legal action against the company, WellPoint reinstated 
the policy in January 2007. 

• Policyholder Rescinded for Not Disclosing Undiagnosed Diabetes f Indlanaf: In 

June, 2007, a WellPoint subsidiary rescinded an Indiana man's policy because he 
allegedly failed to disclose that he had “diabetes or hypoglycemia." The 
company launched an investigation after the policyholder sought nutritional 
counseling. The company reinstated the policy only after the policyholder 
appealed the rescission, explaining that he was first diagnosed with diabetes in 
March 2007, several months after he obtained coverage. 

• Agent Entered Appllcont’s Weight Incorrectly fVirQiniaf : In April 2007, a WellPoint 
subsidiary in Virginia rescinded coverage for a patient whose insurance agent 
entered his weight incorrectly on his application and failed to return it to him for 




90 


review. The company's Associate General Counsel warned that the agent's 
actions were "not acceptable" and recommended against rescission, but she 
was overruled and the company rescinded the policyholder's insurance. 

• Agent Advised Applicont Not to Disclose Hypertension /Diabetes (Texost : A 

WellPoint subsidiary in Texas rescinded a woman's insurance after she was 
diagnosed with breast cancer. An insurance agent had advised her not to 
disclose a history of diabetes or hypertension because she wasn't being treated 
or taking medication for those conditions at the time she applied. The 
company's underwriter recommended honoring the policy, writing: 

“Recommend no retroaction [rescission]. Unable to prove intent of member. No 
response from agent to verify if this information was told to her." The underwriter 
was overruled, however, and the company rescinded the policy in April 2007. 

• Otto Roddotz Rescinded for Not Disclosino Conditions He Never Knew About 

fllllnoisT : In 2004, Fortis Health, now known as Assurant, rescinded coverage for 
Otto Raddatz, a policyholder in Illinois. The company launched an investigation 
of Mr. Raddatz after he contracted lymphoma, and it terminated his coverage 
days before he was scheduled for a life-saving stem cell transplant. In the course 
of its investigation, the company located a CT scan taken five years earlier that 
identified silent gall stones and an asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysm. 

Mr. Raddatz's doctor never informed him of these conditions, and he never had 
symptoms or required treatment. The Illinois Attorney General's office intervened 
on Mr. Raddatz's behalf, repeatedly pressing the company to reinstate Mr. 
Raddatz's policy. Only after the persistent efforts of the Attorney General's office 
did the company reverse its decision. 

• WIttnev Horton Rescinded for Failure to Disclose o Condition She Never Hod 
fColifornloT : A WellPoint subsidiary in California rescinded Wittney Horton's policy 
after a routine doctor’s visit because she did not disclose having polycystic 
ovarian syndrome (PCOS). While reviewing the policyholder's medical records, 
the insurance company discovered doctors' notes that mentioned this condition. 
Despite letters from Ms. Horton’s doctors confirming that they never diagnosed 
her with PCOS or informed her of this condition, WellPoint rescinded her policy in 
June 2005. 

• Company Refused Coverooe for Lump In Breast Because of Osteoporosis fTexosk 

A WellPoint subsidiary in Texas launched an investigation into the medical history 
of a policyholder who was diagnosed with a lump in her breast in November 
2006. The company rescinded her policy and refused to pay for her medical 
treatment after concluding that she failed to disclose that she had been 
diagnosed previously with an unrelated condition of osteoporosis and bone 
density loss, 

• Company Refused Coverooe for Depression Becouse of Skin Problems (VlroinioT : 

In April 2007, a Virginia patient with a policy from WellPoint received treatment for 

2 




91 


depression. After launching an investigation into the policyholder's medical 
history, the company concluded that the patient had failed to disclose a history 
of hemorrhoids and psoriasis (skin rash) and gave an inaccurate body weight. In 
May 2007, the company rescinded the policy and refused to pay for the patient’s 
treatment for an unrelated condition of depression. 

Heidi Bleazord Denied Coverage Because of Husband's Back Problem fUtaht : 

After Heidi Bleazard was in a serious accident in August of 2005, Regence Blue 
Cross Blue Shield of Utah rescinded her entire family's health insurance. 

According to the company, the rescission was based on the alleged failure of 
Mrs. Bleazard's husband, Keith, to disclose a prior diagnosis of a herniated disk 
and back surgery. The Bieazards had fully informed the insurance agent about 
Mr. Bleazard's back problems when they applied for coverage, and the 
company paid claims for his medications and physician visits. 

Entire Family Cancelled Whetr Husband Failed to Disclose Conditions fMIchlaanf : 

When a UnitedHealth subsidiary determined in 2007 that a policyholder in 
Michigan failed to disclose an abnormal blood count and other conditions, the 
company rescinded coverage not only for him, but also for his spouse and two 
children. According to internal company documents, when his spouse called to 
find out why coverage was canceled for the whole family, a company official 
“[cjalled her back told her coverage was voided to medical history not on app." 

Entire Family Cancelled When Husband Failed to Disclose Conditions fMIchlaonV 

A Michigan policyholder obtained health insurance for himself and three 
dependents in November 2007 through the Golden Rule Insurance Company, a 
subsidiary of UnitedHealth. After tiling a claim, the company launched an 
investigation that identified physician visits for hypertension and alcohol abuse 
that were not disclosed on the policyholder’s initial application. The company 
rescinded coverage for the entire family in May 2008. 

Robin Beaton Denied Surgery for Breast Cancer (Texast : Less than a week before 
Robin Beaton was scheduled to have a mastectomy to treat breast cancer, her 
insurance company. Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Texas, rescinded her policy 
after an investigation that was triggered by a doctor's visit for acne. The 
company then concluded that she had failed to disclose a rapid heart beat that 
was resolved years before she applied. Only after Rep. Joe Barton intervened on 
her behalf did the company reinstate her insurance. By that time, however, her 
tumor had grown nearly five centimeters, and she was forced to undergo a 
double mastectomy and the removal of lymph nodes in one arm. 

Dawn Hutchins Rescinded tor Failing to Disclose Esophagus Condition flllinoist : in 

July 2005, Fortis, now known as Assurant, rescinded coverage for Dawn Hutchins, 
asserting that she incorrectly answered a question about whether she had 
received treatment for “stomach or ulcer or ulcer symptoms." Although Ms. 
Hutchins had been treated for a condition known as Barrett's Esophagus, she 

3 



92 


correctly answered the question "no" because this condition does not involve the 
stomach and is unrelated to ulcer disease. After repeated intervention by the 
Illinois Attorney General’s Office, the company reinstated Ms. Hutchins’s health 
insurance. 


For more detailed information on these cases and the Committee’s investigation, see 




93 


HENRY A. WAXMAN, CALIFORNIA 
CHAIRMAN 


JOE BARTON, TEXAS 
RANKING MEMBER 


ONE HUNDRED ELEVENTH CONGRESS 

Consressi o( tfje ®[niteU States; 

^oufie of fteprescntatibESS 

COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE 
2125 Ra\^urn House Office Building 
Washington, DC 20515-6115 

Majority {2tB) 2^2927 
Minority (2(S) 225-3641 

MEMORANDUM 
June 16, 2009 

To: Members and Staff of tbe Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 

Fr: Committee on Energy and Commerce Staff 

Re: Supplemental Information Regarding the Individual Health Insurance Market 

On Tuesday, June 16, 2009, at 10:00 a.m. in room 2123 of the Rayburn House Office 
Building, the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations will hold a hearing on problems 
with the individual health insurance market, including the controversial practice of “post-claims 
undcawriting” and the “rescission” of coverage after policyholders become ill. This 
memorandum provides supplemental information to assist members and staff 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

Last year, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform initiated an 
investigation into problems with the individual health insurance market. This year, the Energy 
and Commerce Committee, and its Subconunittee on Oversight and Investigations, continued 
that investigation. This memorandum presents the Committee’s findings. 

The Committee sent document requests to 50 state insurance commissioners and three 
health insurance companies that provide individual health insurance polici^, Assurant Health, 
WellPoint, Inc., and UnitedHeal^ Group. The Committee obtained approximately 1 16,000 
pages of documents and interviewed numerous policyholders who had their coverage terminated, 
or “rescinded,” after they became ill. 

The Committee’s investigation demonstrates that the market for individual health 
insurance in the United States is fundamentally flawed. 

In the United States, people who do not have health insurance through their employers 
and do not qualify for government programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, must attempt to 
obtain coverage in the individual health insurance market In most states, howev^, insurance 



94 


companies that sell policies to individuals are allowed to deny coverage based on preexisting 
health conditions, leaving a significant portion of the population uninsured. 

The current regulatory franework governing this market is a haphazard collection of 
inconsistent state and federal laws. Protections for consumers and enforcement actions by 
regulators vary widely depending on where individuals live. The documents produced to the 
Committee indicate that insurance companies take advantage of these inconsistent laws to 
engage in a series of controversial practices. 

For example, rather than reviewing medical histories when applications are submitted, 
some insurance companies award policies quickly to begin collecting premiums. If the 
policyholders subsequently get sick and file expensive claims, these insurance companies initiate 
investigations to scrutinize the details of the policyholder’s application materials and medical 
records. If the insurance companies find discrepancies, omissions, or misrepresentations, they 
can retroactively cancel policies, return premiums, and refuse payment for medical services. 

This practice is known as “post-claims underwriting.” 

The documents produced to the Committee also include other examples of controversial 
practices, including the following: 

• Insurance companies rescind coverage even when discrepancies are unintentional or 
caused by others. In one case reviewed by the Committee, a WellPoint subsidiary 
rescinded coverage for a patient in Virginia whose insurance agent entered his weight 
incorrectly on his application and failed to return it to him for review. The company’s 
Associate General Counsel warned that the agent’s actions were “not acceptable” and 
recommended against rescission, but she was overruled. 

• Insurance companies rescind coverage for conditions that are unknown to 
policyholders. In 2004, Fortis Health, now known as Assurant, rescinded coverage for a 
policyholder with lymphoma, denying him chemotherapy and a life-saving stem cell 
transplant. The company located a CT scan taken five years earlier that identified silent 
gall stones and an asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysm, but the policyholder’s 
doctor never informed him of these conditions. After direct intervention from the Illinois 
Attorney General’s Office, the individual’s policy was reinstated. 

• Insurance companies rescind coverage for discrepancies unrelated to the medical 
conditions for which patients seek medical care. In November 2006, a Texas resident 
with a policy from WellPoint was diagnosed with a lump in her breast. The company 
initiated an investigation into the patient’s medical history and concluded that she failed 
to disclose that she had been diagnosed previously with osteoporosis and bone density 
loss. The company rescinded her policy and refused to pay for medical care for the lump 
in her breast. 

• Insurance companies rescind coverage for family members who were not involved 
in misrepr^entations. When a UnitedHealth subsidiary determined in 2007 that a 
policyholder in Michigan failed to disclose his abnormal blood count and other 


2 



95 


conditions, the company also rescinded coverage for his spouse and two children. When 
his spouse called to find out “[w]hy we dropped whole femily instead of husband,” the 
company official “[cjalled her back told her coverage was voided to medical history not 
on app.” 

• Insurance companies automatically investigate medical histories for all 
policyholders with certain conditions. WellPoint and Assurant informed the 
Committee that they automatically investigate the medical records of every policyholder 
with certain conditions, including leukemia, ovarian cancer, brain cancer, and even 
becoming pregnant with twins. UnitedHealth was unable to explain specifically how its 
investigations are triggered, claiming that it utilized a computer program so complex that 
no single individual in the company could explain it. 

• Insurance companies have evaluated employee performance based on the amount of 
money their employees saved the company through rescissions. The Committee 
obtained an annual performance evaluation of the Director of Group Underwriting at 
WellPoint Under “results achieved” for meeting financial “targets” and improving 
financial “stability,” the review stated that this official obtained “Retro savings of 
$9,835,564” through rescissions. The official was awarded a perfect “5” for “exceptional 
performance.” 

In written testimony for today’s hearing, all three insurance companies stated that the 
passage of comprehensive health care reform legislation, including a system where coverage is 
available to everyone and all Americans are required to participate, would eliminate the 
controversial practices of denying covwage based on preexisting conditions and rescinding 
policyholders for omissions in their medical records. 

BACKGROUND 

In 2008, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform initiated an investigation 
into business practices in the individual health insurance market, including the practice of 
rescinding coverage after policyholders become ill. The Oversight Committee held a hearing on 
July 17, 2008, and heard testimony firom policyholders, state regulators, a federal regulator, and 
the health insurance industry trade association.* 

Following the hearing, the Oversight Committee sent information requests to 50 state 
insurance regulators with primary responsibility for regulating the individual health insurance 
market The Committee requested information about the size of the individual insurance market 
in each state, legal standards governing rescissions, and investigations relating to rescissions.^ 


* House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Hearing on Business 
Practices in the Individual Health Insurance Market: Terminations of Coverage, 1 1 0th Cong. 
(2008) (online at www.oversight.house.gov/stoiy.asp?ID=2089). 

^ See, e.g.. Letter fi:om Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Chairman, House Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform, to Ken Vines, Commissioner, Wyonung Department of 
Insurance (Oct. 9, 2008). 


3 



96 


The Oversight Committee also sent letters to three insurance companies that sell 
individual policies: Assurant Health, WellPoint, Inc., and UnitedHealth Group. Each company 
issues individual policies through various corporate subsidiaries, such as John Alden Life 
Insurance Company and Time Insurance Company (Assurant), Anthem Blue Cross of California 
and UniCare (WellPoint), and Golden Rule Insurance Company and PacifiCare of California 
(UnitedHealth). The Oversight Committee requested information relating to company policies 
and practices for investigating policyholders and rescinding coverage.^ 

This investigation was transferred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce this year. 
In May 2009, the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations requested additional 
information from Assxuant, WellPoint, and UnitedHealth, including underwriting guidelines and 
a sample of files regarding rescinded policies.^ 

The Committee received a total of approximately 1 16,000 pages of documents from the 
50 state insurance regulators and the three companies. The Committee also spoke with 
numerous individuals who had their individual health insurance coverage rescinded, three of 
whom are testifying at today’s hearing. 

1. DENYING COVERAGE FOR PREEXISTING CONDITIONS 

In the United States, there is generally no prohibition against health insurance companies 
denying coverage to individuals based on preexisting health conditions.^ In most states, people 
who apply for individual health insurance go through medical underwriting, a process by which 
companies attempt to determine whether applicants have preexisting conditions and can be 
excluded from coverage.* Individuals complete application forms with information about their 
medical histories and any health conditions existing at the time of the application, and they make 
their medical records available for insurance companies to review.’ 


^ See, e.g., Letter from Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Chairman, House Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform, to Robert Pollock, President and CEO, Assurant Health 
(Oct. 10, 2008). 

* See, e.g.. Letter from Rep, Henry A. Waxman, Chairman, House Committee on Energy 
and Commerce, and Rep. Bart Stupak, Chairman, Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigations, to Robert Pollock, President and CEO, Assurant Health (May 22, 2009). 

* Families USA Foundation, Failing Grades: State Consumer Protections in the 
Individual Insurance Market (June 2008). 

* Id. (noting that in Maine, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, and Vermont, 
insurance companies participating in the individual market must offer all policies to all 
applicants, regardless of health status). 

’ Congressional Research Service, Health Insurance: A Primer (Report No. RL32237) 
(updated Mar. 17, 2009). 


4 



97 


Based on this process, insurance companies assess risk and decide whether to place limits 
on coverage or reject coverage altogether. As a rrault, people who do not have insurance through 
their employers and do not qualify for government programs such as Medicare or Medicaid are 
left with few options if they have an illness when they seek insurance in the individual market. 

In vmtten testimony for today’s hearing, Professor Karen Pollitz of Georgetown University’s 
Health Policy Institute explains why this system is problematic: 

Particularly in this economy, as layoffs sever access to job-based health coverage, people 
need deq)erately to find secure, affordable coverage on their Own. The individual market 
is the place where they turn, but too often this market fails to deliver adequate, 
affordable, and secure healfii coverage. In most states individual health insurance is 
medically underwritten, which means eligibility based on health status. Even slight 
health problems can trigger denial of an application.® 

Rather than reviewing individual medical histories at the time applications are submitted, 
some insurance companies award policies quickly to begin collecting premiums. If the 
policyholders subsequently get sick and file expensive claims, these insurance companies initiate 
investigations to scrutinize the details of the original application materials and medical records in 
order to find discrepancies, omissions, or misrepresentations. This practice is known as “post- 
claims underwriting.” 

Based on the results of post-claim investigations, insurance companies may rescind 
coverage, retroactively cancel policies, return premiums, and refuse payment for medical 
services. Rescinding health insurance policies has implications not only for policyholders and 
their femilies, but also for physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers that seek 
reimbursement for their services. A Mississippi court described why this practice is 
controversial: 

An insurer has an obligation to its insiued to do its underwriting at the time a policy 
application is made, not after a claim is filed. It is patently unfair for a claimant to obtain 
a policy, pay his premiums and operate under the assumption that he is insured against a 
specified risk, only to learn after he submits a claim that he is not insured, and, therefore, 
cannot obtain any other policy to cover the loss. The insurer controls when the 
underwriting occurs. ... If the insured is not an acceptable risk, the application should [be] 
denied up fi’ont, not after a policy is issued. This allows the propose insured to seek 
other coverage with another company since no company will insure an individual who 
has suffered serious illness or injury.’ 


® House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on Oversi^t and 
Investigations, Testimony of Karen Pollitz, Research Professor, Health Policy Institute, 
Georgetown University, Hearing on Terminations of Individual Health Policies by Insurance 
Companies, 1 1 1th Cong. (June 16, 2009). 

’ Lewis V. Equity Nat. Life Ins. Co. (Miss. 1994) 637 So. 2d 1 83, 1 88-1 89, cited in Hailey 
V. California Physicians ' Services (dba Blue Shield California) 158 Cal.App.4‘'' 452, 465 (2007) 
(emphasis in original). 


5 



98 


n, DISPARATE REGULATORY FRAMEWORK 

The current regulatory framework governing the individual health insurance market is a 
haphazard collection of inconsistent state and federal laws. Protections for consumers and 
enforcement actions by regulators vary widely depending on where individuals live. 

In October 2008, the Oversight Committee requested information from 50 state insurance 
regulators about the size of the individual insurance market in each state, legal standards 
governing rescissions, and investi^tions relating to rescissions.’® Most states were unable to 
answer basic questions about rescissions and the individual health insurance markets in their 
states. For example: 

• Only four states, Batumi, Kansas, Texas, and Washington, were able to provide the total 
number of rescissions that occurred within their jurisdictions. 

• Only ten states were able to provide the number of individual health insurance policies in 
effect in their jurisdictions. 

• Over one-third of state commissioners were unable to supply a complete list of the 
companies within their jurisdictions that offer individual health insurance policies. 

One significant area of confusion and dispute is whether insurance companies are legally 
permitted to rescind coverage without demonstrating that policyholders intentionally 
misrepresented health information. At the federal level, the Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act prohibits insurance companies that offer products in the individual health 
insurance market from rescinding or otherwise discontinuing coverage unless there has be«i 
fraud or intentional misrepresentation of a material feet by the applicant or policyholder. The 
Act states: 

[A] health insurance issuer that provides individual health insurance coverage to an 
individual shall renew or continue in force such coverage at the option of the individual.” 

The Act creates an exception when “the individual has performed an act or practice that 
constitutes fraud or made an intentional misrepresentation of material fact under the terms of the 
coverage.”’^ During an appearance before the Oversight Committee on July 17, 2008, Abby 
Block, Director of the Center for Drug and Health Plan Choice at the Centers for Medicare and 


’® See, e.g., Letter from Henry A. Waxman, Chairman, House Committee on Oversight 
and Government Reform, to Ken Vines, Coimnissioner, Wyoming Department of Insurance 
(Oct. 9, 2008). 

” Section 2742 of the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 300gg-42. 

‘"M 


6 



99 


Medicaid Semces, testilBed that the Act provides a right to “guaranteed renewability” unless a 
policyholder “acted ftaudulently or made an intentional misrejKesentation of material fact 

Insurance companies do not necessarily follow this law, however, when they are 
operating in states that do not require proof of intentional or fraudulent activity. According to 
responses to the Committee’s 50-state survey, the majority of states do not require a showing of 
fraud or intent before insurance companies may rescind coverage. In these states, insurance 
companies may rescind policies based on any material misrepresentations, even if accidental or 
unintentional.'^ 

The three insurance companies appearing at today’s hearing have informed the 
Committee that they do not believe they are required to demonstrate intentional or fraudulent 
activity by policyholders before rescinding coverage unless state law expressly requires it For 
example, WellPoint stated that it “follows each state’s statutes and applicable case law as its 
standard for rescission.”'* 

m. SPECIFIC EXAMPLES OF ABUSE 

The three insurance companies testifying at today’s hearing reported to the Committee 
that they rescinded at least 19,776 policies from 2003 to 2007.'* This number significantly 
undercounts the total number of rescissions because one company, UnitedHealth, failed to 
provide data for 2003 and 2004, and another company, WellPoint, did not provide data from all 
of its subsidiaries. 


'* House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Testimony of Abby L. 
Block, Director, Center for Dmg and Health Plan Choice, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
Services, Rescission of Individual Health Insurance Policies, 1 1 0th Cong. (July 1 7, 2009). 

Examples of states that do not require a showing of fraud or intent include Alabama, 
Arkansas, Indiana, Michigan, and North Carolina. Several other states require intent, but only 
after a certain number of years have elapsed. Examples include Alabama, Florida, Illinois, 
Kansas, Maryland, Mississippi, Nebraska, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, 
Virginia, and West Virginia 

'* Letter from Stephen J. Northrop, Vice President, Federal Affairs, WellPoint fric., to 
Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 
(Nov. 5, 2008). 

'* Letter from Stephen J. Northrup, Vice President, Federal Affairs, WellPoint, Inc., to 
Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Chmrman, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
Ex. A (Nov. 17, 2008) (WLPOl-3) (attaching a table reporting 9,524 rescissions for its Blue- 
branded and Unicare-branded subsidiaries); Letter from Jennifer Kopps-Wagner, Senior Vice 
President, General Counsel, Assurant Health, to Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Chairman, House 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform (Dec. 3 1 , 2008) (AH0002 19-226) (attaching a 
table reporting 8,520 r^cissions for its Time and John Alden subsidiaries); Letter from K. Lee 
Blalack, Counsel to United HealthGroup, to Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Chairman, House 
Committee on Energy and Commerce (May 19, 2009) (UHG00214) (attaching a table reporting 
1,732 rescissions for its Golden Rule subsidiary). 


7 



100 


The three companies also reported saving more than $300 million as a result of 
rescissions during this five year period. The specific amounts reported by die companies were: 

WellPoint: $128.9 million 

Assurant: $15 1.6 million 

UnitedHealth: $18.7mimon” 

According to documents provided by the companies, as well as first-hand accounts fiom 
individuals who obtained individual health insurance, it appears that insurance companies have 
taken advantage of the haphazard regulatory fiamework by engaging in a series of controversial 
practices involving rescissions. 

A. Rescinding Coverage for Unintentional Discrepancies 

Documents produced to the Committee indicate that insurance companies rescind 
coverage even when omissions or discrepancies are unintentional or caused by others. 

In one case reviewed by the Committee, a subsidiary of WellPoint, Andrem Blue Cross 
and Blue Shield, rescinded coverage for a patient in Virginia whose agent apparentiy entered his 
weight incorrecdy on his application. According to the case file, the insurance company 
launched an investigation of the policyholder after he filed a claim for surgery in May 2006. 
Dwing this investigation, the insurance company discovered that the patient’s weight at the time 
of surgery was listed as 310 pounds, while his weight listed on the application vras 215 pounds. 

In response to a letter from the company asking him to explain this discrepancy, the 
patient wrote back that “there was clearly a typo” and that the insurance agent “took care of 
filling out the on-line application for me.”'* 

An internal company document obtained by the Committee appears to support this 
assertion. A chronology of the steps taken during this investigation notes that on March 9, 2007, 
the company’s investigator confirmed that the agent entered the application information. The 
document states; “Spoke to agent ... no written app[lication] - he took information over the 
phone.”'* 


Letter from Stephen J. Northrup, Vice President, Federal Affairs, WellPoint, Inc., to 
Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 
(Dec. 23, 2008); Letter fi’om Jennifer Kopps-Wagner, Senior Vice President, General Counsel, 
Assurant Health, to Rep. Hemy A. Waxman, Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform (Dec. 31, 2008); Letter fi’om K. Lee Blalack, Counsel to United 
HealthGroup, to Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform (Dec. 3, 2008). These amounts do not include the value of future medical 
costs the companies avoided by rescinding coverage. 

'* Letter fiom Policyholder to Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield (Feb. 1, 2007). 

'* Investigator Chronology Notes, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield (undated) 
(WLP0007531). 


8 



101 


Less than a week later, however, on Match 15, 2007, the company fonnally rescinded 
coverage, writing to the patient; “Had we known of your true build, coverage would have been 
declined.”*'’ 

During a subsequent review, company employees warned that this rescission was 
improper because the agent never returned the application for the patient to review. On April 6, 
2007, the company’s Underwriting Manager e-mailed several other officials regarding the 
agent’s actions. She wrote: ‘Sve need to know if he mailed a copy of the application to the 
applicant with the letter stating if anything is incorrect to let us toow.”** 

Later that day, anoflier company official e-mailed her response: “In my notes, I have that 
since he said he took the application over the phone, he did not send anything to the member.”** 
The Associate General Counsel then asked; “So he submitted electronically . . . and never sent a 
copy of the application to the applicant for review? Am I understanding this correctly?”** The 
Underwriting Manager replied: “Yes you are correct.”*’ 

On April 24, 2007, the Associate General Counsel e-mailed the Underwritii^ Manager, 
stating: “If the agent did not send the app[lication] then we can’t rescind. I need the [sic] get the 
agent’s name so he can be contacted. His actions are not acceptable!”** Later that day, the 
Underwriting Manager agreed and directed another official to “pull the file and reverse any 
decisions that may have been made on this account.”** 

Despite these internal warnings and the advice of the company’s Associate General 
Counsel, the company upheld the rescission the next day. On April 25, 2008, a company official 
sent an e-mail informing the Underwriting Manager of this determination. She wrote: “As 


*'’ Letter from Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield to Policyholder (Mar. 15, 2007). 

*' E-mail from Underwriting Manager, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, to Official, 
Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield (Apr. 6, 2007). 

** E-mail from Official, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, to Underwriting Manager, 
Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield (Apr. 6, 2007). 

** E-mail from Associate General Counsel, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, to 
Underwriting Manager, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield (Apr. 19, 2007). 

*’ E-mail from Underwriting Manager, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, to Associate 
General Counsel, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield (Apr. 20, 2007). 

** E-mail from Associate General Counsel, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, to 
Underwriting Manager, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, et al. (Apr. 24, 2007). 

** E-mail from Underwriting Manager, Anthem Blue and Cross Blue Shield, to Official, 
Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield, et al. (Apr. 24, 2007). 


9 



102 


discussed in the ARC today, this member will remain rescinded.”^’ No documents in the case 
file produced to the Committee explain why the company insisted on rescinding this policy. 

In another case reviewed by the Committee, a different subsidiary of WellPoint, UniCare, 
rescinded coverage for a woman in Texas who relied on her agent for advice on how to fill out 
the application, hi My 2006, this policyholder was diagnosed with br^t cancer. Her claim 
immediately triggered an investigation, and the company began a detailed review of her medical 
records. The Investigation revealed notes horn a he^th clinic visit in 2005 in which a doctor 
wrote that her medical history was “notable for diabetes and hypertension.”^® 

When the policyholder applied for coverage in November 2005, she asked her agent 
whether she should list her conditions of diabetes and hypertension. Her agent advised her to 
mark “no” for these conditions because she had been controlling these conditions with diet and 
exercise and without medication at the time of the application.^^ 

On March 22, 2007, the primary underwriter reviewing her case recommended against 
rescinding her coverage, stating: “Recommend no retroaction [resci^ion]. Unable to prove 
intent of member. No response from agent to verify if this information was told to her.”®® 
Despite this recommendation, and despite the fact that the policyholder’s breast cancer was 
completely unrelated to diabetes or hypertension, the company rescinded her coverage in April 
2007.®’ 


B. Rescinding Coverage for Unknown Conditions 

Documents produced to the Committee indicate that insurance companies have rescinded 
coverage for conditions that are unknown to policyholders. 

In August 2003, for example, Otto Raddatz obtained an individual insurance policy from 
Fortis Health, now known as Assurant. More than a year later, in September 2004, Mr. R^datz 
was diagnosed with Stage IV Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma and immediately began chemotherapy in 
preparation for stem cell transplant.®® 

Before Mr. Raddatz could receive the transplant, however, the insurance company 
launched a review of his medical file and notified him on April IS, 2005, that his coverage 
would be rescinded. The company claimed that Mr. Raddatz failed to disclose a CT scan five 


E-mail from Official, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, to Underwriting Manager, 
Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield (Apr. 25, 2007). 

Letter ifrom UniCare to Policyholder (Apr. 2007). 

Committee Decision, Recommending No Retroaction, UniCare, WellPoint (Mar. 22, 
2007) (WLP002 1570). 

®®M 

’’ Letter from UniCare to Policyholder (Apr. 2007). 

Letter from Otto Raddatz to Office of the Illinois Attorney General (Apr. 21, 2005). 


10 



103 


years earlier that ideatified gall stones and an abdominal aortic aneurysm (weakening of the 
blood vessel wall) “ 

On April 21, 2005, Mr. Raddatz sought assistance fiom the Illinois Attorney General’s 
Office, writing to explain that he was never informed of these conditions. He stated; 

I am being accused of falsely stating my health history. I fully disclosed my history to 
them. I have no knowledge of having gall stones or any blood clots. ... It is a matter of 
extreme urgency that I receive my transplant in 3 weeks. ... This is an urgent matter! 
Please help me so I can have my transplant as scheduled. Any delay could threaten my 
life.^* 

On May 3, 2005, the Attorney General’s office intervened and wrote to the company, 

stating: 


Clearly, he did not know that he had an aneurysm until recently, when his policy with 
Fortis insurance was terminated as the result of post-medical imderwriting following 
chemotherapy treatment.^® 

As a result of this intervention, the company ultimately reversed its decision, and Mr. 
Raddatz was able to get his transplant, although after some delay. In written testimony for 
today’s hearing, Mr. Raddatz’s sister, Peggy Raddatz, states: 

What the Fortis Insurance Company did was unethical. To deny a dying person 
necessary medical treatment based upon medical conditions a patient has never had 
knowledge of, never complained about, or never been treated for is cruel.^* 

In another case, an individual who obtained a policy from WellPoint subsidiary Andiem 
Blue Cross and Blue Shield in Indiana in March 2006 was diagnosed with neck cancer related to 
a history of smoking. Inresponseto thisdiagnosis, the company initiated a review of his 
medical records. On January 5, 2007, the company rescinded his policy, stating that he failed to 
disclose a previous diagnosis of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).^’ 


Letter from Senior Individual Medical Underwriter, Fortis Health, to Otto Raddatz 
(Apr. 15, 2005). 

Letter from Otto Raddatz to Office of the Illinois Attorney General (Apr, 21, 2005). 

’’ Letter from Dr. Babs Waldman, Office of the Illinois Attorney General, to Fortis 
Health (May 3, 2005). 

House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigation, Testimony of Peggy M. Raddatz, Hearing on Terminations of Individual Health 
Policies by Insurance Cotrpanies, 1 1 1th Cong. (June 16, 2009). 

” Letter from Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield to Policyholder (Jan. 5, 2007). 


11 



104 


On Januaiy 24, 2007, the policyholder’s attorney wrote to the company explaining that 
no doctor ever informed the policyholder of this diagnosis. The letter explained: “He answered 
no because his physician ... never used ... COPD or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease when 
discussing his history.”^* The policyholder’s doctor also wrote to the insurance company to 
explain that he had never informed the patient of this diagnosis. The individual’s attorney 
relayed the doctor’s account to the insurance company, writing; 

I have enclosed a copy of a letter fiom Dr. [redacted] dated January 9, 2007 wherein he 
specifically indicates that he did not explain to [redacted] that he was describing COPD.^’ 

The company ultimately reversed this rescission and reinstated the policy on January 25, 

2007.''“ 


In another case, Wittney Horton obtained insurance in 2005 through a WellPoint 
subsidiary. Blue Cross of California, after disclosing a common thyroid condition in her 
application. After Ms. Horton sent the company a bill for a routine doctor’s visit with her 
endocrinologist several months later, the company launched a review of her medical records. 

In June 2005, the company rescinded her coverage, stating that she failed to disclose that 
she had polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) and had taken the drug Olucophage. According to 
Ms. Horton’s written testimony for today’s hearing, “This letter was the first time I ever heard 
about this condition.”'" 

Although Ms. Horton’s medical records contained a note fiom her physician regarding 
polycystic ovarian disease, she was never diagnosed with the disease or informed that she might 
have it. According to her written statement: 

My doctor suspected I might have PCOS, wrote it down in her notes, then told me she 
was prescribing glucophage for weight management I never knew what she wrote down 
in her notes because she never told me.^^ 

Ms. Horton’s doctors also wrote letters to the company explaining that she was never 
diagnosed with polycystic ovarian syndrome.^^ Despite the information provided by Ms. Horton 
and her doctors, the company refused to overturn the rescission. Ms. Horton is now the lead 


Letter fiom Douglas E. Ulmer, Attorney, to Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield (Jan. 
24, 2007). 

Investigator Notes, WellPoint, Inc. (undated) (WLP0010307). 

House Coimnittee on Energy and Commerce, Subcormnittee on Oversight and 
Investigations, Testimony of Wittney Horton, Hearing on Terminations of Individual Health 
Policies by Insurance Companies, 111th Cong. (June 15, 2009). 

*^Id. 


12 



105 


plaintiff in a class action lawsuit against Blue Cross of Califoinia regarding insurance 
rescissions. 


C. Rescinding Coverage for Unrelated Discrepancies 

Documente produced to the Committee indicate fliat insurance companies rescind 
coverage for application discrepancies that are entirely unrelated to the medical conditions for 
which patients seek medical care. When policyholders submit claims for significant medical 
conditions, some insurance companies conduct investigations, identify alleged feilures to 
disclose completely different medical conditions, and rescind policies on that basis. 

In April 2007, for example, a Virginia patient with a health insurance policy from 
WellPoint received treatment for depression. After launching an investigation of the 
policyholder’s medical history, the company concluded that the patient had failed to disclose a 
history of hemorrhoids and psoriasis (severe skin rash) and gave an inaccurate body weight In 
May 2007, the company rescinded the policy and refused to pay for the patient’s treatment for 
depression.^ 

In November 2006, a Texas resident who had a policy with Wellpoint received treatment 
relating to a diagnosis of a lump in her breast The company initiated an investigation into tire 
patient’s medical history and concluded that she failed to disclose that she had been diagnosed 
previously with osteoporosis and bone density loss. On March 29, 2007, the company rescinded 
her policy and refused to pay for medical care for the lump in her breast^* 

Other cases discussed in this memorandum are also examples of rescissions based on 
discrepancies that are completely unrelated to the medical conditions that triggered the 
investigations. The following chart lists several examples. 


Rescission 

Date 

State 

Company 

Condition Triggering 
Investigation 

Formal Basis for 
Rescission 

April 15, 
2005 

Illinois 

Assurant 

(Fortis) 

Non-Hodgkin’s 

Lymphoma 

Gall Stones/Aneurysm 

January 17, 
2006 

Utah 

Regence 

Blue Cross 

Bike Accident/ 

Neck and Back Fracture 

Spouse’s Back 

Surgery 


Texas 


Breast Cancer 

Diabetes/Hypertension 


** Committee Decision to Rescind, WellPoint, Inc. (May 2007) (WLP00143 10); Letter 
from WellPoint, Inc. to Policyholder (Apr. 2007). 

Committee Decision, Recommendation to Rescind, UniCare, WellPoint, Inc. (Mar. 22, 
2007)(WLP0027086). 


13 

















106 


D. Rescinding Coverage for Family Members 

Documents and testimony provided to the Committee demonstrate that some insurance 
companies rescind healdi insurance coverage for family members of policyholders, even if they 
were not involved in any omissions or misrepresentations. 

One case involved Heidi and Keith Bleazard, wbo obtained a family health insurance 
policy from Regence Blue Cross Blue Shield of Utah in February 2005. According to Mrs. 
Bleazard’s testimony to Con®«ss in 2008, she was involved in a serious accident in August 
2005, suffering several fractures in her neck and spine and incurring hospital bills of more than 
$ 100 , 000 .''® 

The company launched an investigation and rescinded coverage for both Mr. and Mrs. 
Bleazard. According to the company, the rescission was based on Mr. Bleazard’s failure to 
disclose a prior diagnosis of a herniated disk and back surgery. These conditions were all 
presented when the Bleazards applied for coverage, and the company paid claims for Keith’s 
back medications and physicimi visits. As Ms. Bleazard testified: 

Regence did not try to talk to either me or our agents before they rescinded the policy. If 
they had, we would have told Regence that our agent and the nurse knew all of Keith’s 
medical history. ... We had no intention of misleading Regence to any degree on our 
application.'*’ 

In another case, an individual obtained health insurance for himself and three dependents 
in November 2007 through UnitedHealth subsidiary Golden Rule Insurance Company.''* On 
April 18, 2008, the company notified the policyholder that he was being investigated.®* The 
investigation uncovered physician visits in 2006 and 2007 for hypertension and alcohol abuse 
that were not disclosed on Ws initial application. In a letter dated May 2, 2008, the company 
rescinded coverage for his entire family.®" 


®® House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Testimony of Heidi 
Bleazard, Hearing on Business Practices in the Individual Health Insurance Market: 
Terminations of Coverage, 1 1 0th Cong. (July 1 7, 2008). 

*'’ld 

Application for Short Term Medical Insurance, Golden Rule Insurance Company, 
UnitedHealth (File Number 07177886) (Nov. 26, 2007) (UHG23949-23950). 

®* Letter fixim Golden Rule Insurance Company, UnitedHealth, to Policyholder (File 
Number 07177886) (Apr. 18, 2008) (UHG23957). 

Letter from Golden Rule Insurance Company, UnitedHealth, to Policyholder (File 
Number 07177886) (May 2, 2008) (UHG23903-23905). 


14 



107 


In another case involving Golden Rule, an individual in Michigan applied for a policy for 
himself, a spouse, and two dependent children on January 31, 2007.®’ The company rescinded 
his policy on August 2 1 , 2007, for failing to disclose abnormal blood count, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, and other conditions.” In addition to rescinding the individual’s coverage, 
however, the company also rescinded coverage for his family members. A company telephone 
log produced to the Committee indicates that the spouse called the company on August 29, 2007, 
to ask why the entire family lost coverage. The log states: 

Why we dropped whole family instead of husband. ... Insured called back in wanting to 

know why tMs was recpnded] for the whole family. . . . Called her back told her coverage 

was voided to medical history not on app.®® 

E. Investigating All Cases of Certain Conditions 

Documents produced to the Committee demonstrate that insurance companies 
automatically investigate the medical histories of all policyholders with certain conditions or 
illnesses, including leukemia, ovarian cancer, brain cancer, and even becoming pregnant vWth 
twins. It does not appear that applicants are informed of this practice before insurance 
companies accept their applications. 

On October 10, 2008, the Oversight Committee sent requests to three insurance 
companies, WellPoint, Assurant, and UnitedHealth Group, to explain when and how they launch 
investigations into the medical histories of policyholders in order to find discrepancies and 
potentially rescind coverage.®^ 

Two companies, WellPoint and Assurant, informed the Committee that they 
automatically initiate a claims review every time policyholders receive medical treatment for 
certain conditions. These reviews can lead to full-blown investigations of discrepancies between 
past medical records and information provided during the application process. Each company 
provided the Committee with a list of diagnostic codes they use to automatically trigger medical 


*’ Application for Insurance, Golden Rule Insmance Company, UnitedHealth (signed Jan. 
31, 2007) (UHG25320-25331). 

®^ Letter flom Claim Department, Golden Rule Insurance Company, UnitedHealth, to 
Policyholder (Aug. 21, 2007). 

®® Phone Call Records, Golden Rule Insurance Company, UnitedHealth (Aug. 30, 2007) 
(UHG25481). 

®^ Letter fiom Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform, to Robert B. Pollock, President and CEO, Assurant (Oct. 10, 2008); Letter 
fiom Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and Govermnent 
Reform, to Stephen J. Hemsley, President and CEO, UnitedHealth Group (Oct. 10, 2008); Letter 
from Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform, to Angela F. Braly, President and CEO, WellPoint, Inc. (Oct. 10, 2008). 


IS 



108 


histoiy investigations. These codes are based on the International Classification of Diseases 
(ICD) coding system.** 

WellPoinfs list of automatic triggers includes more than 1,400 diagnosis codes, 
including breast tumors, cystic fibrosis, schizophrenia, bronchitis, asthma, chronic sinusitis, and 
rheumatoid arthritis.** Assurant’s list contains mote than 2,000 diagnosis codes that trigger an 
investigation, including leukemia, asymptomatic HTV, breast cancer, brain cancer, ovarian 
cancer, and schizophrenia.*^ The medical conditions on these lists range fiom very common 
diseases, such as diabetes or hypertension, to more rare conditions, such as Down syndrome.*® 

UnitedHealth informed the Committee that its subsidiary. Golden Rule Insurance 
Company, has an electronic claims review process that determines which claims to refer for 
additional investigation. This automated process utilizes a number of variables, subh as the 
diagnosis code, date of the claim, effective date of the policy, and type of treatment received.*® 

On June 9, 2009, Committee staff conducted an interview of Michael Come, the Vice 
President of Health Products, Marketing, Government, and Regulatory Affeirs for Golden Ride. 
Mr. Come asserted that the company maintains no single list of diagnoses that automatically 
trigger reviews.*® Mr. Come was unable to explain in detail the company’s process for 
triggering investi^tions, but he did confirm that one variable considered is the cost of the 
treatment.*' 


** Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, International Classiflcation of Diseases, 
Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM) (online at www.cdc.gov/nchs/about/ 
otheract/icd9/abticd9.htm and www.cdc.gov/nchs/icd9.htm) (accessed June 10, 2009) 
(explaining that “the International Classification of Diseases (ICD) is designed to promote 
international comparability in the collection, processing, classification, and presentation of 
mortality statistics”). 

** Individual Plans; Table of DX Subject to Retroaction Review, Blue Cross of 
California and BC Life & Health, WellPoint, Inc. (Sept. 12, 2006) (WLP00012.A001.A001- 
WLP00012.A003.A001) (used by WellPoint subsidiaries operating in California, Colorado, and 
Nevada). 

*® Letter fi-om Mike McNamara, Counsel to Assurant Health, to Rep. Henry A. Waxman, 
Chairman, House Coimnittee on Energy and Commerce (June 5, 2009) (attaching list of 
diagnosis codes) (AHl 000000 1-4). 

*® Id (both Assurant Health and WellPoint automatically investigate claims involving 
diabetes and hypertension, while Assurant investigates cases of Down syndrome), 

*® Letter fiom K. Lee Blalack, Counsel to UnitedHealth Group, to Rep. Henry A. 
Waxman, Chairman, House Committee on Oversi^t and Government Reform (Nov. 20, 2008). 

*® Interview of Michael Come, Vice President of Health Products, Marketing, 
Government, and Regulatory Affairs, Golden Rule Insurance Company, by Staff, House 
Committee on Energy and Commerce (June 9, 2009). 

*'M 


16 



109 


F. Evaluating Employee Performance Based on Rescissions 

Doc^ents produced to the Committee indicate that at least one insurance company, 
WellPoint, has evaluated employee performance based on the amount of money its employees 
saved the company through retroactive rescissions of health insurance policies. 

The Committee obtained an annual performance evaluation of the Director of Group 
Underwriting at WellPoint prepared on February 26, 2004. One objective this official was 
evaluated for was her ability to meet financial “targets” and improve financial “stability.” Under 
“results achieved,” the review stated that this official obtained “Retro savings of $9,835,564,” 
indicating that she helped save the company neariy $10 million throi^ rescissions. For this 
objective, the official was awarded a perfect “5” for “exceptional performance.”® 

Similarly, the Committee also obtained a performance review for an Underwriting 
Supervisor at WellPoint prepared on January 29, 2004, presiunably from within the same , 
corporate tinit as the Director of Group Underwriting. This performance review stated that the 
official “has achieved a high level of performance as evidenced by ... Retro savings of 
$9,835,564.”*^ 

In written testimony for today’s hearing, Brian Sassi, the President and CEO of 
Consumer Business at WellPoint, stated that his company did not “provide a systematic ‘reward’ 
or job performance recognition for employees regarding rescissions.” He also stated that 
“rescission is about stopping fraud and material misrepresentations that contribute to spiraling 
health cate costs.”*^ 

But WellPoint has been forced to reverse thousands of rescissions and pay millions of 
dollars for improperly terminating health insurance coverage in recent years, hi July 2008, a 
subsidiary of WellPoint, Anthem Blue Cross, entered into a settlement with the California 
Department of Managed Health Care under which the company reversed 1,770 rescissions and 
paid a $10 million fine.*’ This year, in February 2009, the company entered into an additional 


® 2003 Strategic Performance Management of [name redacted]. Director, Group 
Underwriting, WellPoint, Inc. (Feb. 26, 2004). 

® 2003 Strategic Performance Management of [name redacted], Underwriting 
Supervisor, WellPoint, Inc. (Jan. 29, 2004). 

** House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigations, Testimony of Brian Sassi, President and CEO of Consumer Business, WellPoint, 
Inc., Hearing on Terminations of Individual Health Policies by Insurance Companies, 1 1 1th 
Cong. (June 16, 2009). 

*’ Cafifomia Department of Managed Health Care, Press Release: DMHC Director 
Ehnes Issues Statement Regarding Settlement with Anthem Blue Cross to Offer Coverage to 1 770 
Formerly Rescinded Members (July 17, 2008) (online at www.dmhc.ca.gov/library/reports/ 
news/bcstatment.pdf). 


17 



110 


settlement with the California Department of Insurance under which it reversed 2,300 more 
rescissions and paid an additional $15 million penalty 

The practice does not appear to be an isolated incident In 2008, a judge ruled that 
another health insurance company, Health Net had rescinded a California woman undeigoing 
chemotherapy in bad faith and awarded $9 million in damages. It was revealed that Health Net 
paid bonuses in part based on meeting or exceeding annual targets for rescinding policies.*’ 

IV. CONCLUSION 

In written testimony for today’s hearing, all three insurance companies stated that the 
passage of comprehensive health care reform legislation would eliminate the controversial 
practices of denying coverage based on preexisting conditions, investigating policyholder 
medical records for omissions, and the rescission of coverage for policyholders. 

Richard Collins, the CEO of UnitedHealth Group’s subsidiary. Golden Rule Insurance 
Company, stated: 

[0]ur country needs comprehensive health reform. . . . Until comprehensive reform is 
achieved, we believe that the medical underwriting of individual policies will continue to 
be necessary. If these changes are instituted, most of the reasons for individual medical 
underwriting — as well as most of the reasons that individual policies are rescinded or 
terminated — would cease to exist.** 

Similarly, Brian Sassi, the President and CEO of Consumer Business at WellPoint, Inc., 

stated: 


[T]he elimination of medical underwriting combined with an effective and enforceable 
personal coverage requirement . . . would render the practice of rescission urmecessary .*’ 


** California Department of Insurance, Press Release: Insurance Commissioner Steve 
Poizner Announces SI 5 Million Settlement with Blue Cross Over Rescission Practices (Feb. 1 1, 
2009). 

*’ Health Net Ordered to Pay $9 Million After Canceling Cancer Patient 's Policy, Los 
Angeles Times (Feb. 23, 2008). 

** House Committee on Energy and Cortunerce, Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigations, Testimony of Richard Collins, CEO, Golden Rule Insurance Company, 
UnitedHealth Group, Hearing on Terminations of Individual Health Policies by Insurance 
Companies, 1 1 1th Cong. (June 16, 2009). 

** House Committee on Energy and Conunerce, Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigations, Testimony of Brian Sassi, President and CEO of Consumer Business, WellPoint, 
Inc., Hearing on Terminations of Individual Health Policies by Insurance Companies, 1 1 1th 
Cong. (June 16, 2009). 


18 



Ill 


Finally, Don Hamm, the President and CEO of Assurant Health, stated in his written 
testimony: 

[W]e can achieve the goal we share — providing health care coverage for all Americans. 
... If a system can be created where coverage is available to everyone and all Americans 
are required to participate — the process we are addressing today — rescission — 
becomes unnecessary.™ 

Beginning next week, the Energy and Commerce Committee will take up comprehensive 
health care legislation that is intended to address some of the problems identified during this 
investigation. 


™ House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigations, Testimony of Don Hamm, President and CEO, Assurant Health, Hearing on 
Terminations of Individual Health Policies by Insurance Companies, 1 1 1th Cong. (June 1 6, 
2009 ). 


19 



112 


HENRY A. WAXMAN, CALIFORNIA 
CHAIRMAN 


ONE HUNDRED ELEVENTH CONGRESS 


Consregg of tfje finiteti States 

Jlotise oC Eepresentatibes 

COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE 
2125 Rayoirn House Office Building 
Washington, DC 20515-6115 


' JOE BARTON, TEXAS 
RANKING MEMBER 


Malority (202) 225-2927 
Minority (202) 225-3641 

July 22. 2009 

Ms. Angela F. Braly 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

WellPoint, Inc. 

120 Monument Circle 
Indianapolis, IN 46204 

Dear Ms. Braly: 


The Committee on Energy and Commerce and its Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigations are investigating business practices in the health insurance market. On May 22, 
2009, we sent a letter requesting case files of policyholders who were rescinded by your 
company. In response, you provided the case files, but you redacted information that would 
identify the individuals whose policies were rescinded. Your counsel suggested that, due to 
patient privacy concerns, you would not voluntarily produce these identities unless compelled by 
the Committee through a subpoena. 

Rather than issue a subpoena, we request that you send the attached letter to the four 
policyholders identified by your company as code numbers 59717, 60586, 60720, and 60853. As 
you can see, the letter simply requests that the policyholders contact the Committee, if they 
choose, to discuss their specific cases. We believe this approach will allow the Committee to 
obtain the information it requires without resorting to compulsory measures. 

We ask that you send the attached letter, \N^ich was provided to you previously on July 
20, by e-mail, facsimile, or overnight mail no later than Wednesday July 22, 2009. Please 
contact Michael Gordon of the Committee staff at (202) 226-2424 with any questions and to 
notify the Committee upon completion of this request. 

rely, 


hairman 

(jbeommittee on Overeight and Investigations 

Enclosure 



Henry A. Waxman 


Chairman 



cc: Joe Barton 

Ranking Member 


Greg Walden 
Ranking Member 

Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 



113 


HENRY A. WAXMAN, CALIFORNIA 
CHAIRMAN 


JOE BARTON, TEXAS 
RANKING MEMBER 


ONE HUNDRED ELEVENTH CONGRESS 

Congregg of tJje Biniteli States! 

^ou«e ot iRepre^entatibesi 

COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE 
2125 Rayburn House Office Building 
Washington, DC 20515-6115 


M^ritY (202) 22!l-2927 
Minority (202)2^-3641 

July 20. 2009 

Dear current or former WellPoint policyholder: 

The Committee on Energy and Commerce and its Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigations are investigating improper terminations of individual health insurance policies. 
On June 16, 2009, the Subcommittee held a bearing on this topic. Information regarding the 
hearing can be found at the Committee’s web site, at http://energycommerce.house.gov/ 
index.php?option=com_content&view=category&layout=blog&id=133&Itemid=73. 

We have ^ked WellPoint to provide this letter to you. In connection with our 
investigation, the Committee obtained documents from WellPoint relating to insurance policies 
the company sought to rescind, including yours. To protect privacy interests, the files were 
produced to the Committee without names, addresses, or other information that would identify 
the policyholder. 

We are writing to request the opportunity for Committee staff to speak to you regarding 
WellPoint’s prior efforts to terminate your healtib insurance policy. If you are willing to assist 
the Committee, please contact Michael Gordon of the Committee staff at (202) 226-2424. 


Henry A. Waxman 
Chairman 


Sincerely, 

Chainnan 

Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigations 


Enclosure 


cc: The Honorable Joe Barton 

Ranking Member 

The Honorable Greg Walden 
Ranking Minority Member 
Subcommittee on Oversight and 
Investigations 



WELLPOINT. 


Stephen J. Noithrup 
Vice President 
Federal Affairs 


July 22, 2009 

The Honorable Henry A. Waxman 
Chairman 

Committee on Energy and Commerce 
U.S. House of Representatives 
2125 Rayburn House Office Building 
Washington, D.C. 20515-61 15 

Dear Chairmen: 

I have been asked to respond to your letter of today to Angela Braly, who Is traveling on business and out of 
the office, requesting that WellPoint send letters on behalf of the Committee to certain current and former 
policyholders in Indiana. While we have made eveiy effort to cooperate with your requests for information 
over the past several months, federal law prevents us from fulfilling the request you made today. 

You asked that WellPoint send a letter to certain policyholders whose de-identified files WellPoint 
produced to the Committee earlier this year. The letter you have proposed would explain that there is an 
ongoing Committee inquiry and would invite the policyholders to call a Congressional staff member who 
works for the Committee. However, as WellPoint’ s outside counsel advised your staff by telephone 
yesterday, we are prohibited by the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) 
from using our policyholders’ protected health information (PHI) for this purpose. 

The privacy regulations promulgated pursuant to HIPAA (HIPAA Privacy Rule) govern both the use and 
disclosure of PHI. The Committee is requesting a voluntary use of the policyholders' protected health 
information by WellPoint for a purpose that is not permitted by the HIPAA Privacy Rule. A 
policyholder’s name, address and the fact that they are or were a WellPoint member are considered PHI 
because it is information created or received by the health plan; is related to the provision of health care to 
an individual or the past, present, or future payment for the provision of health care to an individual; and 
identifies an individual, 45 C.F.R. s. 160.103. The use by WellPoint of the PHI for this mailing does 
not fall within any of the permitted uses under the HIPAA Privacy Rule. It cannot be considered a use for 
treatment, payment or health care operations of WellPoint and it does not fall within the health-oversight, 
public-health or required-by-law provisions as these terms are defined in the HIPAA Privacy Rule. 

If you would like to discuss our response and the issues raised by this federal law, please have a member 
of your staff contact me at 202-628-7840. 

Very sincerely yours, 



The Honorable Bart Stupak 
Chairman 

Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 
Committee on Energy and Commerce 
2125 Rayburn House Office Building 
Washington, D.C, 20515-6115 


120 Monument Circle 
Indianapolis. IN 46204 
Tel (202) 628-7840 
Fax (202) 628-1096 
Stephen, northrup@welipoint.com 


Stephen J. Northrup 

Vice President, Federal Affairs 



115 



MEMORANDUM 


To: 


From: 


House Ener^ and Commerce Com mittee 
Attention;| 


egislative Attorney 


July 23, 2009 


Subject: The H!PAA Privacy Rule and the Use or Disclosure of Protected Health Information 

For a Mailing 


You have asked *‘[i]s there any law, regulation, or other provision in HIPAA or anywhere else tliat 
prohibits an insurance company from contacting its own current or forma- policyholders in order to 
provide them information from Congress?” As per your request, we have confined our answer to that 
specific question, and therefore are not considering or analyzing any other relevant issues. 

In particular, you inquired as to whether an insurance con^any could send a letter about a congressional 
committee investigation to its former plan participants without violating the Health Insurance Portability 
and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Rule. You indicated that the Energy and Commerce Committee 
would not receive any identifying information about participants from the company. According to 
information that you subsequently provided to us, the insurance con:q)aDy claims the following provisions 
of HIPAA prevent the company from providing this letter to their policyholders: 45 CFR 164.502(a), 
164.501, 164,104. 

The company at issue clearly falls within the definition of a covered entity under 45 CFR 164.104(a)(1) 
because it is a health plan. Under 45 C.F.R. I64.502(a)(lXi) of the HIPAA regulations, a covered entity is 
permitted to use or disclose an indiviAial’s protected health information (PHI) to the individual. Thus, tiie 
HiPAA Privacy Rule would seemingly permit the conpany to send the letter to its policyholders. ‘ 

In addition, it should be noted that section 1 64. 5 1 2(d) of the HIPAA Privacy Rule pmnits a covered entity 
to disclose protected health information to a health oversight agency for oversight activities authorized by 
law, including other activitiw necessary for appropriate oversight of the health care system. Under 45 
C.F.R. 164.501, a health oversight agency means an agency or authority of the United States, a State, a 
territory, a political subdivision of a State or territOTy, or an Indian tribe, ... tiiat is authorized by law to 
oversee the health care s>^tem (whether public or private) or government programs in which health 
information is n^essary to determine eligibility or compliance, or to enforce civil rights laws for which 
health information is relevant.” This provision has been relied on in other instances to facilitate 
disclosures of PHI to congressional committees for oversight purposes. For more information on 
congressional oversight in this area, see CRS r^rt RL30240, Congressional Ovosight Manual. 


' Wc note that the HIPAA Privacy Rule does not reqiure the ctwipany to send the letter. 


Congressional Research Service 


7-5700 


wzino.crs.gov 



116 



Illinois Department of Insurance 


PAT QUINN 
Governor 


MICHAEL T. HcRAITH 
Director 


July 21, 2009 


The Honorable Hemy A. Waxman 
Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce 
U.S. House of Representatives 
2125 Rayburn House Office Building 
Washington, D.C. 20515-6115 

The Honorable Bart Stupak 

Chairman, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 
Committee on Energy and Commerce 
2125 Rayburn House Office Building 
Washington, D.C. 20515-6115 

Re: H.R. 3200, Rescissions in the Individual Health Insurance Market 
Dear Chairman Waxman and Chairman Stupak: 

On October 31, 2008, the Illinois Department of Insurance (IDOI) submitted information in support of 
the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform’s inquiry into the rescission practices of 
companies providing individual health insurance in Illinois. In light of your continued examination of 
the fundamental challenges, if not flaws, of the individual health insurance market, and due to the 
imperative for broader reforms as now contemplated, we offer this updated information and related 
comments. Please accept my congratulations and appreciation for your sustained effort on behalf of 
America’s health insurance consumers. 

"America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009" creatively addresses the most significant challenge 
for health insurance consumers in Illinois: health status as grounds for underwriting, pricing and 
coverage denial. While some argue that competitive forces should drive the private insurance market, 
the truth is that competition for profit will never cover those who are or may become injured or ill. 

Rescission-related Complaints 

As noted in my prior correspondence, IDOI received 383 rescission-related consumer complaints from 
2003-2007. IDOI has since received and investigated fifty (50) complaints from consumers during 
2008, and has already received an additional thirty-five (35) complaints in 2009. 

The reason that IDOI does not receive more rescission-related complaints, despite Illinois' significant 
population, is that health insurers operating in Illinois can deny coverage to any individual for any 
reason that does not disproportionately impact a protected class of residents. Recently, a woman and her 
children, all in perfect physical health, were denied health insurance in the individual market because the 
mother informed the prospective insurer that she attended a group grief counseling session after the 
death of her husband. 

100 Randolph 
Suite 9-301 

Chicago, llliook 6(^1-3395 
(312)S14-9200 
insi&ance.iiliiiQ}S.^>v 


117 


IDOI experts thoroughly reviewed the 200 most recent rescission-related complaint files and identified 
characteristics and findings common to most. 

• When underwriting an application for individual health insurance, for purposes of 
acceptance insurance companies rely on an applicant’s self-reported answers to 
questions about her health status and health history. If a claim is submitted within the 
policy’s initial two-year “contestability period,” as allowed under Illinois law, the 
insurer will initiate an investigation of the applicant’s medical history and a close 
examination of her responses to the health questions on (he original application. A 
company may use even a minor, unintentional or unrelated discrepancy, or purported 
misrepresentation, as the basis for a policy rescission. 

• Some health insurance applications appear constructed to mislead or entrap an 
applicant into providing incorrect or incomplete responses. The health portions of 
applications range from 5 broad questions to a list of 125 distinct disorders or 
conditions. Nearly all applications, however, include at least one question found to 
be ambiguous and potentially misleading. For example, one consumer’s policy was 
rescinded in part because he responded that he had never “consulted with a physician 
or medical professional concerning alcohol abuse,” Medical records produced by the 
company indicate that the man was “encouraged” by his physician, during the course 
of a routine physical examination, to reduce his alcohol intake. This, according to the 
company, qualified as a “consultation with a physician” concerning alcohol abuse and 
justified the policy rescission. 

• In many cases, the alleged misrepresentation or omission relates to a diagnosis or 
condition that may not have been known by the policyholder. In one consumer 
complaint, for example, a woman’s policy was rescinded when the company 
concluded she had failed to disclose an abnormal test result from several years prior. 

Further examination of the complainant’s medical records, however, revealed that she 
was not notified of this abnormal result in person, but rather via a message left on her 
home answering machine. Without documentation to verify the content of the 
message, or that the complainant ever actually received it, the company agreed to 
reinstate the woman’s policy. 

• Many of the victims of rescission attributed the alleged incorrect or incomplete 
response to a miscommunication with, or intentional misrepresentation by, the 
insurance agent filling out the application. Although the individual applicant must 
sign the application and is ultimately responsible for its contents, many consumers 
trust insurance agents and defer to the agent’s advice or judgment when deciding how 
to respond to health questions on an application. 

• Forty-three (43) of the 468 rescission-related complaints filed with IDOI since 2003, 
or 9.2%, resulted in reinstatement of the rescinded policy. Some of the reversals took 
place only after persistent advocacy by IDOI staff, while others were more readily 
initiated by the company after new information was presented by the insured, the 
insured’s provider, or the insurance agent. 


1 00 West Randolph 
Suite 9'301 

Oticago, IllinoB 60601-3393 
(312)814-9200 
tnsuraiice.iIIiDois.gov 



118 


Illinois' Legal Standard for Rescission 

To rescind a health insurance policy in Illinois, a health insurer must show only that "the insured has 
withheld material information or answered material questions incorrectly on an application which would 
have resulted in the insurer, at the time of the original application: (1) denying coverage; (2) restricting 
the level of coverage as applied for; or (3) rating up the premium normally charged for the coverage as 
applied for" [50 111. Admin. Code 2005.40(d)]. The Illinois standard does not require a nexus between 
any alleged misrepresentation and the actual claim. Rather, current Illinois law vests the insurer with 
broad discretion and ability to rescind, or to engage in post-claim underwriting that results in the 
policyholder receiving less coverage than that for which she originally bargained. With such broad 
discretion, terms such as "withheld" or "answered material questions incorrectly" are subject to multiple 
interpretations, perhaps dependent upon the nature and cost of the policyholder claim, 

Illinois law does not presently establish an evidentiary standard on which any rescission determination is 
to be based. For example, the insurer can retroactively apply the criteria on which a rescission must be 
based and that insurer can determine information was "withheld" simply based on a purportedly 
reasonable doubt, or ten percent (10%) of the information. 

H.R. 3200 - Necessary Restraints on Rescission 


With the passage of much-needed health insurance reform legislation, as proposed in the House Tri- 
Committee legislation known as "America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009," an individual's 
health status will not remain the shibboleth on which health care is offered. Indeed, when health status 
loses its current status as an insurer's priority consideration, rescissions should soon become a relic. 

However, the Committee should anticipate that health care refomi as contemplated in H.R, 3200 will 
incentivize more insurers, during the interim or transition period, to unload those individuals less likely 
to be profitable in a modernized health insurance marketplace, A higher legal standard for rescissions 
during the transition period, as proposed in Section 162 of H.R. 3200, will be necessary to ensure that 
abusive rescission practices do not increase at the expense or to the detriment of individual 
policyholders. 

Section 162 includes three key elements: (1) fiaud requirement; (2) evidentiary standard requiring "clear 
and oonviacing" evidence of fraud; and (3) independent, external review of proposed rescissions. Fraud 
is an appropriately high legal threshold because such a standard includes five essential elements 
(knowing misrepresentation of a material fact intended to induce reliance and that does induce reliance 
to the detriment of the insurer) that must be demonstrated by any insurer. In other words, a fraud 
standard demands a fact-based direct link between the alleged misrepresentation, the insurer's reliance, 
and the claim submitted. 

Section 162 also eliminates the legal ambiguity regarding the evidentiary standard on which a rescission 
must be based. For example, in Illinois, as mentioned above, a rescission may be based on a "reasonable 
belief supported by perhaps ten percent (10%) of the information. By imposing a standard requiring 
that the alleged fraud be proven by a "clear and convincing" evidentiary standard, the unilateral 
discretion of the insurer is restricted to facts relevant to the individual claim. Most importantly, the 
insurer cannot whimsically decide to deny a claim and rescind a policy simply based on an incomplete 
answer to a confusing question. 

Finally, Section 162 subjects all rescission decisions to independent, external review. As a deterrent to 
insurers, and as a mechanism to impose accountability on insurers, such a process will enhance the 

l(X} West Rareioiph 
SiHte 9-301 

Oiicago, UiiRQis 60601-3395 
(312) 814-9200 
tnsirance.iiliQots.gov 



119 


consumer protections needed to ensure individuals and families receive the health care for which 
premiums have been paid. While tedious and unduly stressfiil on individuals and families, independent, 
external review can aid consumers without the financial or personal resources needed to engage an 
attorney or other private advocate. 

"America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009" represents a significant step toward modernizing 
the Illinois health insurance market. Section 162 of the Act, which imposes appropriate rescission 
protections during the period of transition to a new insurance marketplace, will appropriately restrain 
this pernicious industry practice and assure our families have access to essential health care. 

Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions or would like additional information. 

Very truly yours, 



Michael T. McRaith 
Director 


1 00 West Rffiidoiph 
State 9-301 

Oiicago. illioos 60601-3395 
(3I2)«14-92{K) 
msuiaitce.iUiitois.gov 



120 








122 


SOSiCQOdlM uoi)euiui9ssi<3 Duqnd iOi }0N 

s^uauinaoo ieiiuapuuoQ pue ^leidudojd' 



123 


SOSiCQOdlW UQijBU{iu»SS}0 suqnd -»oi JON 

s)U3Uin3oo (Bi^apijuoo Ajeidijdojcj 





124 


yjLP00015a4 




Sul^leet: RE: Speak mn* Hr 


Ac diKwusd In tha ARC today, Ms mainbar «M remain readfldaii. 
TtiwMia, 



Seff feTueadBV.A ofa H 2087 10:51 Mi 
subject: RE: Sp^nowhr 

fljjjlllllll please puB tw fQe and ravarse any dadtions that may have bean tnade on Ms accowt 



Se nt: Tuesday, A pfg 24, 2007 6:05 AM 
subject: RE: Speak now ttr 


tr Oe aoent dU not send tie apfi dien we cant rescind. I need (ha Qei the agenrs name so he can be contacted. 
H(s actions are not acceptable! 





IQ 99 8 


flES^ DOCUMENTS MAY CONTAIN CONFIDENTIAL HEALTH CARE INFORMATION PROTECTED BY FEDERAL LAW UNDER 
HtPAA. 00 NOT DISSEMINATE 




125 




gw teflMt y, ApM 20, 2007 S:29 PN 
now Itr 

CefifiveortMfAar? 



Yosyouarecomrct 



So ho 8ubmHtBde!«ctraRtcaily with VS and never amt a copy erf ihooppOcalton to lh»Bp{^tc»njiorevf«w? Atnt 
un0er[!^s«^ thiseorreetty? 



SubfKt: FW: S^k now Kr 


See b^mt for litftier update 



StAjeeb RE: Speak now Hr 


Thcro if « 4wt« in the fit* dated 3/0/07 by iHIHftltat wtye *Pcr build ht reednd cirhar way 
retcind per ceniinitree.* The rescissiwi was cotipkTcd on 3/0/07, so shotdd I stiH cflRTacT The agenr? &t 
my notes. I hove that he end he sines he took Vn€ oppheatien over the ^one, he did not scfid OHffhmg ta 
the member. I will try t« get him tosend methot ktwri^ng. 1 am sending Wmanenwitlwillcopyyouenit. 


Sent; Friday, April 06, 2007 8:58 AM 




109-99 


, HESE DOCUMENTS MAY CONTAIN CONFIDENTIAL HEALTH CARE INFORMATION PROTECTED BY FEDERAL LAW UNDER 
HIPAA. DO NOT DISSEMINATE 



126 




SUIi|«Gt: RE: Speak now ftr 


Yes, end we oetP to know « ke maletf a copy <rf the applcatiwi to me 8R)llcart w«h the Wtar s^ina if anyWnfl 

ts meofmci to let us isww. 



Itie fluent never me anything. When t eentscted him and f indiy spoke to hini, he stated he ^ net 

have 0 paper ajspticetton, th^ this ms taken over the ^one. Z ssked Hia to send me on emdi stating that 
and hove never recchnot it. I had te cell him several times t« even speak mth him c^wut this. Shotdd I try 
ogoirt? 


S>i ^ftWy,April06.a>07 8;10AM 
Sndject: FW: Speak now ft 


SeatMiow. Can someone Bd me an update? 



Su^eeft RE: Spedc new Hr 


What hawMened wun ms one? 




Sent: Thtssetay, Hareh 01, Z0Q7 1:24 PM 


p*l2Sl7m 


11«&0 


iKESE DOCUMENTS MAY CONTAIN CONFKIENTIAt HEALTH CARE INFORMATION PROTECTED BY FEDERAL LAW UhK>ER 
HIPAA. OONOTOmSEMINATE 



127 





I ^«pusN if »e apeni received a paper had ii» send us oie p{^ ^icaSon becrnse we t)ad to 

8udH the pafrer against vituA was kejreci. Weneedtogotjacktotheagentandseoiftt^eyhatfelhep^t 
(iplHicakon becaiire weoi^ hare ttte cn-^ M mtere. 




Ihc (qjfriieetion os SlSfbs en 4/9/04 and «« hove records sfotmg hie wct^ on 9/t/06 ores 3!0tbs. hte 
r^fy to the ^eak new letter came irt yesterday eftcmoen end he thinks that the sgcnt may ho«re mis- 
key^ his wm^t off the arigind i w ritt e w eppiieatien. The erelter states his biild at the time of the 
onpKottiaH t«dS'5lO*C79 |^lt nos dedcU yesterday to rescmd this member due to build. My quesHon >s, 
^euidwe stiil resehtdMn bosedert t^ethfertRotiaRinthespeek now ierter? 

Thorrie. 



Xndividuel tiMdereriring 


TMs ntetsoge, SnchicRng ettachments, is for the sole ass rf-Jlhc intended rce^ents and may contDin 
confidenitol end prmicgcd kiformatiwu dny lanudwrizcd use. disclosure or dstributien is prohibited. Cf 
you or* net the recipient, please centset the sender by reply C'lnaii ond destroy sH cities of ttws messi^. 


W/2S/»07 


11801 


.HESE DOCUMENTS MAY CONTAIN CONFIDENTIAL HEALTH CARE INFORMATION PROTECTED BY FEDERAL LAW UNDER 
HIPAA. DO NOT DISSEMINATE 


O 


