i 


a" | Declassified and Approved For | Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 
("3° UNCLASSIFIED Ci 


USE ONLY L]ONFIDENTIAL [] SECRET 
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET 


SUBJECT: (Optional) 


TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE 
building) OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom 


INITIALS to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) 
: & Bl 
ZS85 So 1G .- 


EXTENSION | NO. 


OATE 


RECEIVED Lecewaanen 


FORM USE . = " — | 
sts 610 “ttt ] SECRET ©] CONFIDENTIAL [1 INTERNAL una ASSIFIED 
Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


ied maton Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 1:3 t5e 2b. 


'y for Psychical Research 


Physiological correlates of 


Unpublished manuscript.) 


nt 


.L PROBLEM. Pamphlet 
Murphy. Reprinted from 
1umbers of this Journat. 


iestion of the survival of 
nded that Dr. Murphy’s 
ginally appeared in the 


ival Evidence,” presents 
ed form. 

mfronting the Survival 
Nem of finding evidence 
‘ some other hypothesis, 
Survival,” discusses the 
inized wholes cannot be 
ts) for psychical research.. 
' Clairvoyant Processes is 

to relate to the future and 

i evidence are indicated. 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


co — eee cere me ee ROE et TEE Rte ED eb VAPNY RRR tens ses wun ree 


ee 


Quantum Theory and Parapsychology 


J. H. M. Wurreman 


INTRODUCTION 


In recent years a number of attempts have been made to sketch 
explanations of certain psi phenomena along lines which the authors 
consider to be compatible with modern physics. There is held to 
be a special need today for such attempts, since ‘‘many scientists 
reject psi because of its apparent nonphysical nature” (28, p. 84), 
or since rejection of the “naturalistic” world-view by prominent 
writers on psychical research ‘‘is responsible for a good deal of 
the current prejudice on the part of natural scientists against 
parapsychological research” (12, p. 226). A “‘physical’”’ theory of psi, 
it seems to be argued, might convert many opponents; but pre- 
sumably the authors would not put forward such explanation 
unless they believed it to be the right kind of explanation to aim for. 

Nearly always the basic assumption seems to be that modern 
physics zs naturalistic, i.e., one-level deterministic (9, p. 17), and 
thus the need for compatibility with modern physics demands the 
production of a naturalistic theory for psi. An opposing view, which 
I maintain is in its broad lines the view of the great majority of 
quantum physicists and also of philosophers of science oriented to 
theoretical physics, is that modern physics, far from being natural- 
istic, has overthrown the naturalistic world-view. This “opposing 
view,” which became fairly general nearly fifty years ago and has 
become much more compelling still in recent years, unfortunately 
receives little publicity outside the specialist journals. Consequently 
it has received so far almost no attention in parapsychology. But 
presuming that it is as widely accepted by authorities as I am 
maintaining, it is clear that the task for parapsychology, in coun- 
tering attacks on its alleged “‘nonphysical” character, is not to try 
to devise naturalistic explanations, but to show how the critics 
might see that parapsychology is compatible with modern physics, 
if only they knew enough about both. 

It is chiefly the problem of precognition that has called forth 
attempts at explanation along substantially naturalistic lines. Pro- 
fessor C. T. K. Chari, in a timely and extensively documented 
paper (10), has set out to rebut these insofar as they propose to 
modify the formalism of quantum theory or its interpretation. With 
his general conclusion, that “all attempts to crack the riddles of 
psychical research by relying on quantum mechanics are, for the 


Att Atanas gave: met Y aor mere nticg opneebeiyren Ap sha Mees mere wear gs curtane nen + usdnadiS pe rinmny a . 


Se nee ARE oe ees 


mt me 


1 RE HOE YES ee mt 


oe 


Ra reat nen Rees! 


‘Sats 


* 


e 


._Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-009994000200010009 
OR sation” le ee Bee SB i ees Bil Bai et tana Sd 


to ee ae ene ER ee ae LS Te oR te gee miata aeh ese 
a ; , . et 2 sieve Siete Baal fhe audit Be score as ‘ 


Woe serie ch te eetecPhe a EY ee gg ey dae ls ig, Aig 
aia Ma es Sas ae ee eats Wile ees 2 Saal panics 
oo 


342 Fournal of the American Society for Psychical Research 


present, premature and hazardous” (10, p. 203), I am in agreement, , 
and would even express the conclusion far more strongly if the 
attempts referred to have the purpose of reducing. parapsychology 
to physics. Nevertheless, after the elimination of ‘“‘partially baked 
ideas” (in I. J. Good’s sense [17]) and other formalistic proposals 
against which more positive objections can be laid, there still remain 
certain fundamental questions. How far is the experimental basis 
of “main-stream” quantum theory (2, p. 1) still virtually un- 
challengeable ? What is the nature of the ‘‘epistemological problem” 
raised by it ? Why is quantum theory considered to have overthrown 
the “‘classical ontology” ? And what is the relevance, if any, of the 
epistemological problem and the overthrow of the classical ontology © 
to parapsychology ? 

It is clear, I think, that this last question must be strictly attended 
to if parapsychology is to be placed on a sound scientific basis; and 
the others are of course involved in it. I shall try to answer each 
. : -* oe of the questions in as concise a way as possible, and then to show 
Ee 2S 8 WERE Eas how, compatibly with the answers, we may build the beginnings 

ee of an axiom system for parapsychological phenomena. 


“MaINn-STREAM” QUANTUM THEORY 


Distinguishing, for the present, “elementary” quantum mechan- 
ics from quantum field theory, one can say that “main-stream” 
quantum mechanics is a mathematical language devised basically 
to formalize certain remarkable experimental results with which 
the classical “language” appears to be quite incompatible. “I know 
from my own experience,’ Max Born wrote, ‘“‘and I could call on 
Heisenberg for confirmation, that the laws of quantum mechanics 
were found by a slow and tedious process of interpreting experi- 
mental results” (8, p. 86). And Bastin, more recently, has said, 
“One can scarcely deny that the quantum theoretical formalism 
took the form it did precisely to accommodate those puzzling 
aspects of the quantal state of matter which [the] realist position . 
seeks to find an excuse to ignore” (2, p. 8). ‘ 

There are four questions which need to be put concerning main- 
stream quantum mechanics. Is the mathematics always rigorous and 
Bees 58 consistent within a certain postulational framework ? Does it always 
‘ og - ' work out in satisfactory agreement with experimental results? Are 

: - the remarkable experimental results just referred to, from which 
the character of the formalism is inferred, beyond dispute ? And is 
the inference justified ? 

The answers to these subsidiary questions, I suggest, are as 
: ‘follows: The mathematics is rigorous and consistent if developed 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 | 3 


hee tant St tie Pinte ate ADR 


oe eras fee oo Pee So eh eh en ore sini eee ey Sis. tues Bes i the 
. _Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


for Psychical Research 


203), I am in agreement, 
far more strongly if the 
reducing parapsychology 
ition of “‘partially baked 
her formalistic proposals 
be laid, there still remain 
s the experimental basis 
9. 1) still virtually un- 
pistemological problem” 
lered to have overthrown 
relevance, if any, of the 
of the classical ontology 


must be strictly attended 
und scientific basis; and 
shall try to answer each 
sible, and then to show 
ay build the beginnings 
phenomena. 


‘THEORY | 


ary” quantum mechan- 
ay that “main-stream” 
puage devised basically 
ital results with which 
‘incompatible. “I know 
e, “and I could call on 
of quantum mechanics 
of interpreting experi- 
ore recently, has said, 
1 theoretical formalism 
nodate those puzzling 
h [the] realist position 


€ put concerning main- 
‘ics always rigorous and 
rework ? Does it always 
erimental results ? Are 
ferred to, from which 
eyond dispute? And is 


ons, I suggest, are as 
-onsistent if developed 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


-—ew 


Quantum Theory and Parapsychology 343 


in a certain way (not usual in textbooks of physics [33, pp. 319 f.]), 
up to a certain point, where additions and. adaptations are made, 
often prompted by classical ideas and open to various mathematical 
or phenomenological objections—a small qualification, since every 
scientific theory has a dubious fringe at its growing points. The 
theory is in quite extraordinary agreement with experimental re- 
sults, again up to a point, where the adjustments made begin to 
look very artificial, the phenomenology becomes.very confused, and 
the experimental results are not predicted with entire accuracy or 
completeness (but quantum field theory, within its range of ap- 
plication, goes a long way toward rectifying these deficiencies). The 
experimental results which the consistent core of the theory is 
designed to formalize have been tested repeatedly in the most 
thorough way, and it does not seem remotely possible that they 
could ever be overthrown. As regards the question whether some 
other kind of formalism might serve equally well, I think we can 
confidently answer that the features of the formalism which seem 
most surprising, because quite foreign to classical physics, could 
not be dispensed with because they correspond to features of the 
experiments to be explained; but the formalism might possibly be 
expanded or replaced by a nearly equivalent one if those features 
are preserved. 

It is part of main-stream quantum theory, and essential for 
understanding the objections to the classical ontology, that one 
should realize what the basic experimental results are and con- 
sequently why the formalism has to be of the kind it is. All this is 
exemplified most clearly in various thought-experiments, of which 
two kinds call for consideration here. 

These are diffraction or interference experiments in which a beam 
of monochromatic light is directed into the apparatus and certain 
effects are eventually detected on a sensitized screen. If the beam 
is of strong or average intensity, bright lines or bands are seen in 
certain positions; but if the intensity is greatly diminished, the 
continuous effect breaks up into single scintillations or absorptions 
detected by a photomultiplier. This fact strongly suggests that the 
beam “really” consists of particles, though the sense in which the 
term “really” is used remains obscure. It is to be noted, however, 
that interference and diffraction effects involve the canceling out 
of the intensity in certain regions, and this seems quite inexplicable 
unless the intensity is structured as a wave (for neither mass nor 
energy can cancel themselves out). The question as to what it is 
consistent to believe “‘really” happens in the apparatus before the 
screen is reached thus becomes acute. 

In the “grating experiment” (25, p. 18) the beam is directed at 
a diffraction grating from which one half can be removed, leaving 


CATR Ase HO sung APS ae 


- cere re poe 


we ateresewtee 


semen fete or oe 


aoe eet are tere 


t 


~ —_Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CiA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 in 


SZ 


344 Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research Quar. 


half: as many lines, spaced as’ before. Simple geometrical theory : Vo 
shows that such removal should greatly worsen the resolving power ois pri 
of the grating (line-breadth), assuming that the wave meets the absor 
whole of the grating in position on each occasion; and this theo- in th 
reti¢al conclusion is accurately verified experimentally for normal phys 
intensities. If, now, the intensity is very greatly reduced, and the “mei 
wave then breaks up into small wave-packets, the resolving power the | 
will| similarly depend on the size of the packets and not at all on inter 
how far the grating extends on either side beyond the packets as» wide 
they impinge on it. Thus we have a clear test whether the wave atten 
whith is producing scintillations can or cannot logically be consid- New 
ered to have broken up into separate packets. The verdict of experi- still 
merit is that, however weak the intensity of the incoming beam, it phik 
behaves as an unbroken wave, not as an ensemble of separate packets. “epi 
In the variant of the two-slit interference experiment carried out . CG 
by Janossy and Naray in 1957 (21, pp. 2 f.; 33, p. 316) the beam dens 
was|split by a semi-transparent mirror into two beams which were obse | 
caused to interfere. The intensity was reduced until less than one rega 
quantum of energy was in the apparatus at any time. Single ab- conc 
sorptions were nevertheless still detected, and their statistical appz 
distribution was conspicuously the same as for intensities ten “pre 
thousand times greater, being always. in agreement with what . time: 
geometrical theory predicts for a complete wave not broken up into just 
wave-packets. bilit, 
Although in these two cases the arguments proceed along quite - und. 
différent lines, the same conclusion seems to follow inescapably. ques 
As Messiah puts it: ‘On [the] way up to the detecting apparatus, cons. 
everything happens as if light were propagated as a wave [and — poss: 
definitely not as an ensemble of either wave-packets or particles]; mec. 
the corpuscular aspect manifests itself only at the instant of de- and | 
tection” (25, p. 20). ad i. 
Thus the formalism needs to contain two distinct kinds of also: 
elements: (2) The mathematical expression for a sinusoidal wave : ther 
that! does not break up into packets and is not detectable in loco (for V 
if a-new detector were inserted to explore the effect at any place, cha 
this| would make a new experiment and bring about a new corpus- var) 
cular effect); in short, the wave is physically unobservable as such. of t. 
(5) A mathematical operation for deriving from this wave, on the oe 
occasion of an observation, a statistical distribution which individual fun 
absorptions must fall into, although individually their place and the. 
timing cannot be predicted. The theory of linear operators in a _ por 
Hilbert Space fulfills precisely these conditions, and with appro- cor, 
priate choice of wave-function and identification of operators it the | 
provides the basis for main-stream quantum theory and all its out 
immensely varied and accurate confirmations. - anc 


| 


\ 
\ 
| 
i 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 _—s. A 


ry Psychical Research 


nle geometrical theory 
en the resolving power 
it the wave mects the 
‘casion; and this theo- 
srimentally for normal 
eatly reduced, and the 
s, the resolving power 
‘kets and not at all on 
beyond the packets as 
test whether the wave 
10t logically be consid- 
The verdict of experi- 
the incoming beam, it 
ible of separate packets. 
experiment carried out 
; 33, p. 316) the beam 
two beams which were 
ced until less than one 
t any time. Single ab- 
, and their statistical 
as for intensities ten 
agreement with what 


ave not broken up into’ 


ts proceed along quite 
to follow inescapably. 
ie detecting apparatus, 
gated as a wave fand 
2-packets or particles]; 
rat the instant of de- 


two distinct kinds of 
for a sinusoidal wave 
t detectable iz loco (for 
the effect at any place, 
ig about a new corpus- 
y unobservable as such. 
rom this wave, on the 
yution which individual 
dually their place and 
f linear operators in a 
ions, and with appro- 
ication of operators it 
um theory and all its 
ns. 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


nan) 


: 
1 


ot, 7 i ta wel) —— = Ai ae” tte: 
cen or eent . denistehimmernmbalterll se tbat 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


Quantum Theory and Parapsychology 345 


Von Neumann, to whom the rigorous Hilbert Space formalization 
is principally due (31), wrote at a time when it was not known that 
absorptions can continue even when there is less than one quantum 
in the field, and also long before the development of high-energy 
physics. In trying to present a complete mathematical theory of the 
“measurement process” he was led to introduce, over and above 
the basic analysis just given, several assumptions, techniques, or 
interpretations which have since been ruled out, disproved, or 
widely and seriously questioned. It is necessary to give some 
attention to these here, since the redundant assumptions of von 
Neumann rest on presuppositions of the classical ontology and are 
still often adopted (by those unfamiliar with the situation in the 
philosophy of science) as the basis for attempted solution of the 
“epistemological problem” arising. 

One of the inadmissible assumptions is that the probability 
density which is ultimately derived (||?) refers, even before any 
observation has been made, to an ‘‘ensemble”’ of ‘‘systems”’ to be 
regarded as present in space at the time in question. It is thus 
conceived of as a classical probability density in the space of the 
apparatus before anything is detected, and is declared to yield the 
“probability of finding a particle” in the region specified and at the 
time in question, the particles being (contrary to the experiments 
just mentioned) already in existence as such. Now such a proba- 
bility can only be verified by repeating the experiment many times 
under identical conditions and in each case exploring the region in 
question with detecting apparatus. But this of course destroys the 
conditions of the experiment. Verification by such means is im- 
possible; the kind of verification actually obtainable in quantum 
mechanics applies only at the final stage (where absorptions occur) 
and not in the intervening field. Thus the postulate is “definitively 
ad hoc” (33, p. 120) and scientifically inadmissible. Reference may 
also be made to Messiah’s further objections to the “ensemble 
theory” (25, pp. 158-159) and to Feyerabend’s remarks (15, p. 98). 

What is called ‘“‘von Neumann’s Theorem,” that quantum me- 
chanics is “complete” in the sense that there can be no “hidden 
variables,” is by common consent today considered to fail because 
of the over-stringent postulates imposed (3, 6, 14). 

The Projection Postulate, or theory of “reduction of the wave- 
function,” is the assumption that ‘‘measurement” abruptly reduces 
the state of the “‘system’”’ being measured to an eigenstate corres- 
ponding to the eigenvalue which appears as the measure. This has 
come in for sustained criticism on various grounds, chiefly because 
the concept of “measurement” is vague (the measure being the 
outcome of an experiment extended in space and time indivisibly), 
and because the postulate is clearly false if, as in absorptions, the 


meme Amarin te a ee eee 


5 hae comet telah Sede, op 


* * se, ete a eer ae Savinnt ae meted Tet Aa) Ue Ws eee Nae dukes, ; ita 
Deciassiied¢ and nieve For Release 3014/01709 - CIA-RDP79- 0099940002000 10009- Gr Seer 


oO 


346 journal of the American Society for Psychical Research 


photon presumably indicating the measure is destroyed (24, 30). 

The chief confusions in the use of the term “‘measurement” seem 
to arise from the lack of distinction between a first interaction, as 
between a field and two slits, and a second interaction, as at a 
sensitive screen (34, p. 73). To suppose that the measure at the 
screen tells us that a certain “system” at the slits had that measure, 
! again runs counter to the basic analysis detailed above. If it is not 
clearly understood, as Bohr never tired of insisting (7, 29), that a 
particular measure cannot be attached to a wave or “system”’ until 
' after the final interaction, continual pseudo-problems and paradoxes 
arise. (Similarly, in parapsychology we could distinguish a “‘first 
i interaction” between an agent and some physically unobservable 
and probabilistic connecting means, and a “second interaction” 
| between the connecting means and the observation by a particular 
| Percipient, as specified by the total conditions on some particular 
indivisible occasion.) 

I omit discussion of von Neumann’s “‘theory of mixtures” as not 
| being immediately relevant to parapsychology. 
| Still another serious point of criticism concerns von Neumann’s 
| attempts to formalize the “‘measurement process” as a single en- 
' 
i 
| 
I 
i) 
| 


counter between a “‘system”’ and the “apparatus,” presumed also to 
have its wave-function. The proposed attachment of a wave-func-. 
tion to the macroscopic apparatus has led to absurdities, as in the 
example of ‘‘Schrédinger’s cat” (16, p. 14). It is perhaps sufficient 
simply to repeat von Weizsacker’s remark that “the problem of 
measurement certainly is not sufficiently described in von Neu- 
mann’s way, because there is not the confrontation between one 
object which is the quantum object and another object which is 
either the measuring device or the human being” (2, p. 71). 
(Similarly, in parapsychology there could be no “confrontaticn” 
between a general psychical connecting means and a measuring 
device or percipient, : since this would at once produce something 
specific.) - 

As regards the meaning of the term “Copenhagen Interpreta- 
tion,” the difficulty is that many writers interpret this “interpre- 
tation” as including some or all of the questionable von Neumann 
assumptions, while others—Messiah, for instance (25, pp. 48, 152, 
158 f.)\—keep close to the basic analysis above, and thus to the 
original views of Bohr in regard to the “wholeness” or ‘‘indivisi- 
bility” of an experiment on the occasion of an observation. Even 
Heisenberg seems to accept von Neumann’s ideas on “mixtures” 
(20, p. 125), while arguing for the “Copenhagen Interpretation.” 
It is misleading to say, however, as Ballentine does (1, p. 361) and 
is quoted by Chari, that “Heisenberg combines the ‘subjective 
interpretation of probability’ with the Aristotelian notion of 


Declassified and aparoved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA- RDP79- 009994000200010009- 6 


pak eNOS Kind Suite chet a TASS ch tase Dai ae 


r Psychical Research 


is destroyed (24, 30). 
| ‘‘measurement’’ seem 
n a first interaction, as 
1d interaction, as at a 
at the measure at the 
slits had that measure, 
iled above. If it is not 
nsisting (7, 29), that a 
yave or “‘system”’ until 
roblems and paradoxes 
ld distinguish a “first 
1ysically unobservable 
“second interaction” 
rvation by a particular 
ns on some particular 


ry of mixtures” as not 
gy. 

cerns von Neumann’s 
ocess”’ as a single en-- 
us,” presumed also to 
ment of a wave-func- 
absurdities, as in the 
t is perhaps sufficient 
that “‘the problem of 
‘scribed in von Neu-: 
ontation between one 
other object which is 
2 being” (2, p. 71). 
e no “‘confrontation” 
ans and a measuring 
e produce something 


penhagen Interpreta- 
erpret this “interpre- 
onable von Neumann 
ance (25, pp. 48, 152, 
ove, and thus to the 
sleness” or “‘indivisi- 
an observation. Even 
ideas on “mixtures” 
agen Interpretation.” 
> does (1, p. 361) and 
ibines the ‘subjective 
‘istotelian notion of 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


_Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A00020 


ate aby eS tk tet z 


Quantum Theory and Parapsychology 347 


potentia” (10, p. 195). Heisenberg’s position, in accord with the 
theory of mixtures, is simply that uncertainty may be due to 
inadequate preparation as well as to the “‘objective” limitations of 
the uncertainty relations (15, p. 92; 20, p. 53; 23, p. 22). 

Ballentine’s paper argues for von Neumann’s ‘“‘ensemble theory” 
(without considering the evidence and arguments ruling this out) 
and against what he calls the “Copenhagen Interpretation.” For 
this purpose he produces Bohr’s very argument of “wholeness” on 
the occasion of observation, and supposes that in consequence the 
reference can never be to an “individual system,” and so must be 
to an “ensemble.”’ I agree with Peierls (26) and Feyerabend (15, 
p. 310) that the confusions have gone so far that the term ‘‘Copen- 
hagen Interpretation” would be better dropped, provided it is 
realized that there zs a core of main-stream quantum theory which 
is scarcely open to dispute. 


THE EPISTEMOLOGICAL PROBLEM 


What are here called the “redundant assumptions of von Neu- 
mann” are the basis for his ‘‘theory of measurement,” about which 
Jauch, Wigner, and Yanase say: “‘As has been pointed out many 
times before, von Neumann’s theory, if followed to its ultimate 
consequences, leads to an epistemological dilemma” (22, p. 145). 
In their view the alternatives are (a) to refrain from making any 
definite statement about ‘‘physical reality” and to concern oneself 
only with experimental results and the formalism simply as a 
summary of these (this is the positivist position), or (b) to assert that 
the wave-function is indeed a description of ‘“‘physical reality,” but 
may change discontinuously and erratically as a result of the act 
of measurement. Neither of these points of view, they say, seems 
satisfactory. 


A third course is to abandon the redundant assumptions of von 


1 Neumann and the ideas on “classical ontology” in which they 


originate. Even after this has been done, however, an epistem- 


: ological problem remains, centering around the concepts of “‘reality” 


and “‘completeness.”’ It arises from two interrelated difficulties. 

Firstly, there is the fact that we have no way of predicting the place 
, where an absorption is to take place, or the time when an absorption 

or emission will occur. Secondly, there is the peculiar ontological 
| Status of the wave-function inasmuch as it is unobservable in loco 
_ and has no one specific form out of many possible, yet it is posited 
| aS a part-cause (along with the experimental conditions in their 

wholeness) of the specific measure found on the occasion in 
: question. There is thus a double hiatus of ignorance or experimental 
! 


0010009-6 


ee act ne tn a RR Le ES NOR tN Or 


ea Nemepen - eS 


cory Cr) 


me 


ARATE ne Bobet eet AARON ct HENTAI NETS A PONE Ate et eee A ITS Mi ARR IN Be nt AR et ED A Mi: te 


; Be en ge eee ee Rana acs La ctadl ty scale At EL 
Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


348 Fournal of the American Society for Psychical Research 


incapacity at the observational level, and, correspondingly, of pre- 
dicting incapacity at the causal level represented by the formalism. 
Attempts to solve this epistemological problem usually amount to 
attempts to fill in the hiatus in the formalism with further hy- 
potheses, hoping that the experimental hiatus can then be con- 
sidered to have been sufficiently accounted for. 

The existence of this double hiatus reveals a striking similarity 
between the epistemological problem which arises in parapsychol- 
ogy and that which arises in quantum theory. In each case there 
is the impossibility of accounting for a very wide field of evidence 
in terms of the “classical ontology”; there is the question of the 
peculiar ontological status or “‘reality” of the physically unobserv- 
able causes which are postulated as an explanation; and: there is- 
the question whether it is right or not to demand, as explanation, a 
complete system of laws which are acceptably ‘‘physical” in 
character. In each case there is a crisis, a problem of “reality,’? and 
a problem of “‘completeness” at the physical level. 

"I shall deal first with the problems in quantum theory, noting, 
however, that both in quantum theory and in parapsychology any 
solutions offered must rest on some fairly definite world-view, and 
that the same kind of world-view should serve for both cases. 

All the solutions.that have been offered appear to fall into one 
or the other of two categories, according to the kind of world-view : 
assumed. In order to bring hidden assumptions to light it will first 

|": be necessary, I think, to state in explicit terms the more familiar 

|. world-view. This seems to be still commonly assumed by most 

~ scientists other than quantum theorists, although, as I shall main- 
tain, it is definitely ruled out by many powerful considerations, 
apart from its incompatibility with main-stream quantum theory. 

It has been given various names. As a basis of nineteenth-century 
physics it is called the “classical. ontology.” In Whitehead’s 
terminology, and viewed as a basis for conceptions of space and 
time, it is the theory of “simple location” (32, p. 72; 33, p. 289). 
Where space alone is concerned, it has been called the “container 
theory,” following’ Einstein (13, p. xiv). And as a general philo- 
sophical standpoint it was described above as “one-level na- 
turalism.” - : 

In this “classical” nineteenth-century world-view everything in 
nature is characterized by a precise position and a precise time in 
a unique space and a unique time. It is admitted that experimental 
measures of space and time only approximate to the (presumed) 
precise theoretical measures; but this fact, it is claimed, needs no 
other explanation beyond saying that the divergences result from 
unpredictable deficiencies of the apparatus or personal differences 
on the various occasions of measurement. The origin and action 


SOUS Ey Se yews 
EN, Sedat Oh we gg ee ape ete 


ae i 


—_ , ao, ; | 
Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


HE ees 


iaaasrniee’ Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : ClA-RDP79-009994000200010009-6 


y Psychical Research 


rrespondingly, of pre- 
ited by the formalism. 
em usually amount to 
lism with further hy- 


tus can then be con-" 


for. 
ls a striking similarity 
arises in parapsychol- 


ry. In each case there 


wide field of evidence 
is the question of the 
> physically unobserv- 
lanation; and there is 
vand, as explanation, a 
ptably “physical” in 
blem of “‘reality,” and 
il level. 

antum theory, noting, 
n parapsychology any 
finite world-view, and 
ve for both cases. 
ppear to fall into one 
he kind of world-view 
ms to light it will first 
‘ms the more familiar 
nly assumed by most 
ough, as I shall main- 
werful considerations, 
eam quantum theory. 
of nineteenth-century 
zy.” In Whitehead’s 
ceptions of space and 
32, p. 72; 33, p. 289). 
called the ‘‘container 
d as a general philo- 
ve as “‘one-level na- 


Id-view everything in 
and a precise time in 
tted that experimental 
ite to the (presumed) 
: is claimed, needs no 
vergences result from 
iT personal differences 
(he origin and action 


| 
| 


‘ 


ot areal rie me a cate, RN ye ewes 


Quantum Theory and Parapsychology 349 


of these personal differences are supposed to be brought within the 
scope of this theory of “simple location” in the following way: 

In the strictest form of this world-view it is supposed that a 
complete system of laws exists for objects or fields characterized 
in this way, including objects or fields corresponding exactly with 
everything of the personal life of individuals, so that, given any 
situation, the outcome at any future time is, in principle, exactly 
predictable. Such a system of laws is of course not known, but it is 
supposed that it nevertheless “exists” in such a way as to be 
effective for exactly limiting the outcome at any future time. The 
view that such an exact and complete correspondence exists 
between everything of personal life and the fully determined placing 
and motion of simply-located objects and fields is known as 
psychophysical parallelism. This is the metaphysical system which 
Behaviorism seems to presuppose. 

A “weakened” one-level naturalism would result if the rigors of 
this definition were slightly relaxed in order to admit free will, 
human intention, memory, and so on, in such a way that while the 
operation of these factors is wholly confined to physical objects and 
fields (for nothing else is supposed to exist, on this theory), the 
laws which they obey are considered to be not suitably put in the 
same category as “‘physical’’ laws. 

The problems arising in main-stream quantum theory for those 
who believe in a one-level naturalism seem to be (a) that the 
experimental hiatus negates the assumption of a complete system 
of laws from which prediction is actually possible; this negation 
is also echoed in the formalism; (4) that the wave-function is, in 
principle, physically unobservable and moreover expresses only a 
range of possibilities; and (c) that there are many independent 
arguments, which some philosophers of science and mathematicians 
consider conclusive, against one-level naturalism. 

In respect of these three difficulties, the policy of those who 
believe, consciously or unconsciously, in one-level naturalism may 
be (a) to claim that the experimental hiatus will be removed by 
new discoveries, or is in principle removable; the wave-function 
will then merely have to be changed or supplemented; and (@) to 
ignore the philosophical and mathematical arguments as mean- 
ingless within the language of the assumed naturalism. 

Thus de Broglie’s proposal, also touched on by Bohm (4, p. 80) 
in 1957, that all fields consist of simply-located particles and that 
these are guided by the ¢-field (denominated a “pilot wave’’) to 
positions in accord with the known probability distribution, seems 
to be aimed at preserving the Newtonian concept of particle trajec- 
tories along with that of simply-located fields. It fails in many 
ways: for instance, because the particles are “definitively ad hoc” 


CE pee ene eed 


22 tse ee, NEE te AMO EER EAN ATR Rint enfeIRLee whet A tee bO ROE seth = eRe SUF S Rb Iitieat te ain ye 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


i a A ss Ssanmtietieim teens 
_Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79- 00999A000200010009- 6 


we erent, 


350 Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research Qua 
(33, p. 120), because the difficulty is only transformed into the shat 
worse difficulty of accounting for the right steering of the particles cult 
by a general wave into particular positions, and because it is "rem 
incompatible with the occurrence of absorptions when less than how 
one quantum is in the apparatus at any time. byt 
It is not possible here to review in any adequate way the philo- stor 
sophical and mathematical arguments against one-level naturalism. of + 
. They are developed at length in my book, Philosophy of Space and ¥ 
Time (33). Three points may perhaps be noted: (a) Practically gen 
nothing of the ‘‘naturalist’s” program can be actually put into cnt. 
effect, even in principle. The conditions at any given time cannot the 
be measured with absolute accuracy, nor can an infinity of measures of 3 
for them be formulated; the time itself cannot be measured with Py 
absolute accuracy; and the laws, even if they were known, could ang. 
not be applied to an infinity of initial observations. In any case, the 1S ts 
initial measurements would need to be made in other experiments ded 
at previous times, and thus would not in fact determine the experi- pot: 
mental conditions as a whole for the particular experiment in sor: 
question. The fantasy that this kind of prediction is possible results obs: 
from a wrong analysis of what is actually done in applications of kine 
quantum theory. (b) There are continual “category mistakes.” The the 
representations of objects and fields are mathematical constructs, acc 
and the laws are conceptual relations between conceptual events, ince 
but these are supposed to operate on non-conceptual objects. In 4 
other words, the laws are a priori exact, but their field of application phe 
is empirical and inexact. (c) The theory presents only an impersonal the 
and unknowable substratum of nature, as if given by a God-like exp 
allocation of space and time labels regardless of operational possi- tk 
bilities. eau 
Let us now consider the fact that the wave-function, insofar as the 
it is a plain description of the phenomenological situation, is a Th 
conceptual structure corresponding with a range of possibilities fitt! 
(each with a certain mathematical probability) and not with any one ont 
specific measure; and let us put with this the fact that a specific \ 
measure is yielded when, corresponding to a specific occasion in rec 
its wholeness, a certain operation is made on the wave-function. ; bes 
These facts seem to be little more than an explicit demonstration, ae 
in the field of physics covered by quantum theory, of a fundamental reli 
distinction between what is in potential and what is actualized sh 
according to the occasion. for 
As soon as we accept such a world-view (or such feature in our } 
world-view) and abandon ideas of simple location, the difficulties abs 
posed in the epistemological problem begin to evaporate. It is not 
to be expected that we should at once attain to a complete and th: 
detailed justification of the foundations of quantum theory. It tha 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


. _Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


+ Psychical Research 


‘transformed into the 
teering of the particles 
ns, and because it is 
ptions when less than 
1e. 

fequate way the philo- 
t one-level naturalism. 
Inlosophy of Space and 
noted: (a) Practically 
| be actually put into 
any given time cannot 
an infinity of measures 
not be measured with 
ey were known, could 
ations. In any case, the 


e in other experiments - 


: determine the experi- 
ticular experiment in 
ction is possible results 
lone in applications of 
itegory mistakes.” The 
itthematical constructs, 
sen conceptual events,. 
conceptual objects. In 
heir field of application 
mts only an impersonal 
given by a God-like 
s of operational possi- 


ve-function, insofar as 
logical situation, is a 
range of possibilities 
') and not with any one 
the fact that a specific 
a specific occasion in 
on the wave-function. 
‘xplicit demonstration, 
eory, of a fundamental 
nd what is actualized 


or such feature in our 
yeation, the difficulties 
to evaporate. It is not 
iin to a complete and 
f quantum theory. It 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


gt eee ee 


Quantum Theory and Parapsychology 351 


should be sufficient, for the time being, that the conceptual diff- 
culties previously encountered are largely overcome. Some further 
remarks on the “potentiality” or “hierarchical” view are needed, 
however, since although I believe something of the kind is accepted 
by nearly all quantum theorists, the essentials are easily misunder- 
stood or associated with unacceptable presuppositions such as those 
of von Neumann. 

What is in potential is to be thought of as normally subconscious, 
general, conceptual-formative, time and space comprehending; but it 


enters into specific manifestations (actualization) by a limitation of 


the potentiality according to the total conditions on the occasion 
of manifesting. A useful illustration is to be found, I think, in the 
Pythagorean formula for the length of the hypotenuse of a right- 
angled triangle. Since this is true wherever Euclidean geometry 
is true, it could be said to permeate local space, though the exactly 
deduced result is made approximate by the operation of additional 
potentialities. But nature does not secure the results by making the 
sort of construction with squares in the space of the physically 
observed phenomenon, or by any other of the constructions of that 


' kind used in proofs. On the contrary, the result comes about by 


the fact that (local) concepts of space are organized conceptually 


‘ according to the Euclidean Jsometry Group, and (local) space is 


' 


inconceivable except in those terms. 

Thus: potentiality acts by an internal logic, inherent in the 
phenomenon itself, but not at the same “‘level’”’ because not in 
the same category of existence. Another illustration of this is in the 
expression of emotion and thought in the features of the face. Here 
it is even more evident that the potentiality (i.e., logically prior 
causes) and the manifestation are in different categories, and that 
the potentiality is not strictly in the same space as its manifestation. 
The actualization takes place, moreover, not by a mechanistic 


fitting together of geometrical constructions simply located in the _ 


one space, but by a direct rule of correspondence. 

We come now to the crucial question: Does a thoroughgoing 
recognition of the distinction between potentiality and actualization, 
besides being prima facie implied by the nature of the wave-function 
and by the philosophical and mathematical arguments mentioned, 
relieve the difficulties involved in the epistemological problem in 


' .quantum theory ? If it does, there would not seem to be any ground 
_ for refusing to apply it also to parapsychology. 


First and perhaps most urgently, there is the question how 
absorption can take place even when there is less than one quantum 
in the apparatus. A partial answer is at once provided by saying 
that the quantum is ot to be located in the apparatus, any more 
than the Euclidean Isometry Group is to be located in the lengths 


ice acne |help eae 


ot ere oe 


LOA ME De oN PTE ee caer ee RES 


_Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 - CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 sai 
* > \ 


ee’ 


352 Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research 


being measured. We cannot go further without tackling the more 
positive question whether it is now possible to conceive how 
absorption can take place in distinct quanta at particular positions 
and times, although the wave which we use to represent the 
potentiality is extended in space and time; in other words, is there 
really a sudden “collapse” of the wave-front into a point-absorption ? 

In the view which we are now considering, the wave-function 
represents a control-mechanism for absorption, and not anything 
which is simply located in actuality. It is constructed by “back- 
ward extrapolation” (34, pp. 73 f.) from the observational results, 
and since we have no way of predicting the place and time of 
individual absorptions, our construction must be of a general kind, 
like an average. But while it is impossible (for the reasons given 
above) to carry out such prediction in full and precise detail, other 
potentialities, individually formalizable perhaps, but not capable 
of being handled mathematically in their infinity, must have an 

effect on the manner of actualization. Every slight irregularity in 
the production of fields and construction of the apparatus must 
have some effect. 

One may occasionally narrow down the range of choices by fresh 
discoveries; the wave-function thus becomes less general, but still 
stands for a potentiality (34, p. 76). This is not therefore a “collapse” 
on actualization, but only a more refined extrapolation. 

In the further study of actualization it is necessary to distinguish 
between overall potentialities and small-bias potentialities. When, 
for example, a large number of throws with a six-faced die are 
classified, certain overall potentialities are seen to dominate until, 
when the representation has become continuous, the effect of the 
small-bias potentialities has almost disappeared. In a single throw, 
on the other hand, it is the small-bias potentialities which dominate, 
and the effect of the overall potentialities cannot be distinguished. 
The mathematical probability 1/6 for each face (called ‘‘objective’’) 
is only a convenient measure of the overall potentiality in the 
experiment as a whole. 

It is clear also that a special kind of potentiality is operative on 
the instant of actualization in order to integrate or consummate all 
the other potentialities, and that this results in the manifesting of 
a “choice” (of the particular molecule to be affected, in the case 
of the two-slit or grating experiment). This, we can say, is the chief 
reason why the experiment must be treated as a whole when we 
attempt to draw conclusions from what is observed. (A similar 
integration or consummation of all potentialities clearly takes place 
in psychological responses.) ‘ 

It may be remarked that quantum theory has no way of formu- 
lating the integration and choice otherwise than as the bare un- 


i 
‘ 
| 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


ae aeons: prema wii 


A ce li at Be My ro 


mie i J F re ‘ ee, | as FN ee Oe Sees Oe es a. oe we ee 
penises alae = 


: _ Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


pr Psychical Research 


fhout tackling the more 
sible to conceive how 
4 at particular positions 
. use to represent the 
in other words, is there 
nto a point-absorption ? 
‘ing, the wave-function 
tion, and not anything 
constructed by “‘back- 
« observational results, 
the place and time of 
ist be of a general kind, 
(for the reasons given 
ind precise detail, other 
rhaps, but not capable 
infinity, must have an 
ry slight irregularity in 
of the apparatus must 


inge of choices by fresh 
ss less general, but still 
ot therefore a “‘collapse”’ 
:xtrapolation. 

necessary to distinguish 
is potentialities. When, 
ith a six-faced die are 
s;cen to dominate until, 
ious, the effect of the 
ircd. In a single throw, 
ialities which dominate, 
innot be distinguished. 
ace (called “‘objective’’) 
rall potentiality in the 


‘atiality is operative on 
grate or consummate all 
$ in the manifesting of 
se affected, in the case 
We can say, is the chief 
d as a whole when we 
s observed. (A similar 
lities clearly takes place 


‘has no way of formu- 
: than as the bare un- 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


eee 


Quantum Theory and Parapsychology 353 


predictable result of a mathematical operation; for it has no way 
of formulating all the small-bias potentialities. There are two pos- 
sible views in regard to the bringing about of single absorptions 
by such integration, but further discussion here would take us too 
far afield. 

Lastly, it may be asked why one quantum only is absorbed. 
Quantum theory assumes this in order to ‘‘save the appearances,” 
and no deeper explanation seems forthcoming. A clue, however, 
may be provided by the fact that quantum-mechanical energy is 
measured by frequency of pure sinusoidal constituents in the wave- 
function. Hence interaction would appear to occur not by the 
transfer of localized packets of energy working into one system 
from another, but by a process analogous to resonance in “stationary” 
(i.e., stabilized) states of the atomic systems reacting to a “free 
field.” In quantum field theory, interaction between fields has in 
fact to be conceived of in such a non-localized way. 

Much space could be devoted to examining the views of Heisen- 
berg on potentia (18, pp. 13, 27 f.; 19, p. 149; 20, p. 53), of Bohm 
on “‘potentiality” (5, p. 241), of Popper on ‘‘propensity” (27), and 
of Dobbs in interpreting Popper’s “propensity” as a ‘‘potentiality”’ 
(11, pp. 323-327), and to considering how far elements of the 
simply-locational view, belief in the redundant assumptions of 
von Neumann, and varying usages of such terms as ‘‘subjective”’ 
and “objective” have confused the issue. I think it is more helpful, 
however, simply to bear in mind that the exposition of potentiality 
presented here is a further articulation of Bohr’s insights (rejecting 
a few incompatible elements) and, as such, is already latent in 
main-stream quantum theory. 


Tur RELEVANCE OF QUANTUM THEORY TO PARAPSYCHOLOGY 


The analysis of the epistemological problem in quantum theory 
leads inevitably to an extension of the findings (notably the dis- 
tinction between potentiality and actuality) beyond the limits of 
physical experimentation to experience in general. 

Let us return first to a consideration of the small-bias potenti- 
alities which cannot be formalized in their completeness. These are 
evidently of two kinds. One kind will be operative when an ex- 
periment, after having been set up, proceeds without human 
influence and the results are recorded photographically. Another 
kind will be operative when human influence is unavoidable, as for 
instance if the experimenter is breathing into the apparatus or 
walks about in the laboratory during the experiment. If the ex- 
perimenter sees, hears, or feels the result, still other potentialities 


ata er recs ne ova <cs rent AARNE Lota see ton Kannan aceasta eaiadtaal eneilh ae alin tenaietein ak ieee aetna ne 


She Nae te 


oom ef 


eam e 


2 aA ee mH ARLE ROTOR RRND 7 


00999A000200010009-6 


_Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79- 


ptt ne tt ee | 
354 Jfournal of the American Society for Psychical Research Quan 
must be operative to bring about his sensing what he actually does theory 
sense. furthe 
The state of affairs then appears to be that potentialities of the $0 as 
apparatus and of the experimenter must intermingle, so to speak, voyan 
and mutually adjust themselves in the act of integration which is the si 
observation. This is also an actualization (since at a particular place In« 
and time) derived from what is potentially extended over space ; now 
and time, and aiso from what is dispositional in the observing sugge 
individual. terms 
The admission of a sphere of potentiality where human con- neces: 
sciousness is concerned is nothing more than a theory of the un- Ax? 
conscious made explicit, with paradoxes removed, and confirmed as ; world 
a viable theory by the existence of its analogue in quantum theory. indivi 
It needs to be further remarked, however, that individuals are not perces: 
in that case sealed off from one another, for their ability to observe result: 
“the same” physical objects shows that there is a common potenti- subjec 
ality (“intersubjectivity,” or “common unconscious’’) involved in Axi 
all human observation. We must therefore admit a double aspect and ir 
of human potentialities: first, as originating in one individual and ‘ 
: ; : : : Fe safe hoes Ax! 
specially referring to him or his physical body (the “subjective Seta 
aspect), and second, as being involved in any integration with caine) 
potentialities of other objects or individuals in the wholeness of an hex 
occasion of actualization for him (the “intersubjective” or ‘‘ob- ae ee 
jective” aspect). cee 
Continuing further over the range of human experience, we come re 
to the consideration of states of thought, mental imagery, dreams, y- 
and ESP (including precognition). Consistently with the above h ne 
analysis, we must admit ‘‘spheres of actualization” and corres- eats 
ponding potentialities in each case, not necessarily all different. But evele 
even though the spheres may be different, the same human potenti- eoncel 
alities may be actualized in them in different ways. Thus fear may Co: 
manifest itself in one way in the physical state and in another way slits” 
in the dream state because the additional potentialities required tential 
for actualization are different in the two cases. tume. | 
When all kinds of awareness (each with its sphere of actualization Spec, 
and potentiality substructure) are admitted as subjects for scientific logic, 
study, the world-view that results is of the kind called hierarchical. actual 
Natural science results from the arbitrary limitation of attention to (34, F 
the effectively zmpersonal physical sphere, with human observation _ (8) 
of the events in question replaced by recorded artifacts. Discarding instan 
this arbitrary limitation, we have now to examine how the hier- values 
archical world-view may help us toward an understanding of retain 
phenomena in parapsychology (as well as those in more ordinary prehe: 
psychology). Since I am attempting here only an introductory events 
~~~. sketch aimed principally at showing the relevance of quantum (33, p 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


Bs Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


crcnnnsetac Gini sitet ni eed anditaatit inetd So Sista sn \ Ph ceased sat ines heen 2 nt lnc BI sa ate seieezlace SADR RE a ae wl Raat ECS a A alee a Beast nackte mint A ame ae ca” 
op Mee : ae". 


- Psychical Research 
what he actually does 


at potentialities of the 
ermingle, so to speak, 
f integration which is 
ce at a particular place 
extended over space 
snal in the observing 


y where human con- 
ina theory of the un- 
ved, and confirmed as 
ie in quantum theory. 
1at individuals are not 
heir ability to observe 
> is a common potenti- 
mscious”’) involved in 
idmit a double aspect 
in one individual and 
ody (the ‘‘subjective”’ 
any integration with 
n the wholeness of an 
srsubjective” or ‘“ob- 


a experience, we come 
ntal imagery, dreams, 
ently with the above 
Jization” and corres- 
sarily all different. But 
> same human potenti- 
- ways. Thus fear may 
te and in another way 
potentialities required 
2s. 

sphere of actualization 
3 subjects for scientific 
nd called hierarchical. 
litation of attention to 
th human observation 
d artifacts. Discarding 
camine how the hier- 
an understanding of 
lose in more ordinary 
only an introductory 
elevance of quantum 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


Quantum Theory and Parapsychology 305 


theory, I propose merely to develop the hierarchical view a little 
further, in places again appealing to quantum theory for illustration 
s0 as to show how room is definitely found fer telepathy, clair- 
voyance, and precognition, which are notoriously inexplicable on 
the simply-locational world-view. 

In order to be as definite as possible in a compact space, I shall 
now set down the chief points argued for above along with further 
suggestions in the form of axioms, with definitions of “technical 
terms” shown in italics, and accompanying comment where it seems 
necessary: 

Axiom 1. There is a potentiality-sphere for events in the physical 
world, whether or not they are observed by any individual. An 
individual can participate in this, and it can be called his physical- 
perception sphere. Actualization of physical phenomena for him 
results from integration of potentialities of that kind with his 
subjective potentialities. 

Axiom 2. Every individual has a potentiality-sphere of thought 
and images, to be called his thought-image sphere. 

Axiom 3. The various levels of potentiality for an individual 
include a level of values and higher intentions (the ideal sphere) 
influencing the thought-image sphere, and this in turn influences 
the sphere of physical perception and action there. Actualizations 
at any one level act as potentialities at a lower level, so that the 
lower the level, the lesser the generality and the greater the speci- 
ficity. 

Axiom 4. Objects and individuals, singly or in consociation, 
have distinguishable potentialities, which continually develop. Such 
development is not in physical time, but in what may be called a 
conceptual or quast time. 

ComMMENT. (a) Compare the two-slit experiment, where “at the 
slits” only the wave-function is determined, as an “overall” po- 
tentiality; but it is determined precisely in conceptual space and 
time. When a screen is placed in front, the manifestation becomes 
specific. Such working-out of potentiality proceeds, by its inherent 
logic, as far, and in as much detail, as is possible until further 
actualizations occur to specify the development more precisely 
(34, pp. 76 f.). 

(5) Conceptual time becomes actually observable when, for 
instance, a melody and all its structure in notes of various time- 
values is perceived by “stopping of time.” The relative durations 
retain their cognitive character in spite of the fact that the com- 
prehending of the whole melody, when correlated with physical 
events, is comprised within a few moments of physical time 


(33, p. 293). 


be Ut etre ige 2 tt ote 


Santee hs 


SMe Ceres on RE ULE oT ta eh RE et ee 


“ n Fon 3 
‘ Declassified and Approved For Release 20 


AXIOM 


iohloa Sakti stan ote deaitis aed eae Sk ota ER gs ala, 


A EM ene ote ng 


356 Journal of the American Society for 


place, there exists a new 
total event, with a past-coloring, 
each individual who has experienced it; 
memory of the event. If 
there is still a general fulfilled 
potentiality-sphere; this may 

CoMMENT. Without such a 
ness” in quantum theory comprise events at different times ? 


actualization are those of (2) his individual 
memory at all levels; (b) events at any level: fulfilled, presently 
. actualized, 
position, needs, memory, 


potentialities have various degrees of 
various kinds and degrees of openness. 


COMMENT, 


actualizations in physical space and time, 


_ kind causing a link or transfer 
(b) Relative lack 
fixated on other potentialities. The chief fixations are emotionality, 


fixed ideas, absorption in physical phenomena, and absorption in 
discursive thinking 


Ne cee 


ed For Release 2014/01/09 - GIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 =!~! 


Psychical Research 


5. After actualization of an event in any sphere has taken 
and fulfilled potentiality in regard to that 
in the thought-image sphere of 
this is his individual 
experienced the event, 
potentiality established in the physical 
be called a cosmical memory. 


“memory,” how could the “whole- 


no individual has 


Axiom 6. Before actualization of an event has taken place, par- 
ticular stages in its working-out constitute 
be called provisional, and have a 
any of these in an individual’s thought-image sphere may occur in 
integration with his subjective potentialities. If this is 
free from subjective distortions and is not the result of (subjective) 
reasoning from theories, 


potentialities which may 
future-coloring. Actualization of 


relatively 
regularities, etc., it is called a precognition. 
potentiality affecting an individual in any 


or provisional; 


in integration. is not possible if 


the potentialities of individuals Present are to be absolutely cut off 


Axiom 8. The development of potentialities and their inte- 
gration as necessary in any actualization take place by various kinds 
of resonance, i.e., special relevance or resemblance. Resonating 


intensity and stability, and 


“chosen” almost 


wherever placed); the 
would then be essentially by conceptual sameness of some 
of characteristics. 


of openness for an individual results when he is 


(accompanied by emotion and words and faintly 


| 10009-6 
Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A0002000 


Mores 


‘ Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : ClA- RDP79- Ore eon anes: 6 


vi pa agit la ach te alas ean bea Ai et se 


y for Psychical Research 


‘nt in any sphere has taken 
tentiality in regard to that 
thought-image sphere of 
it; this is his individual 
as experienced the event, 
established in the physical 


| cosmical memory. 


”” how could the ‘“‘whole- 
ts at different times? 


vent has taken place, par- 
e potentialities which may 
-coloring. Actualization of 
mage sphere may occur in 
lities. If this is relatively 
t the result of (subjective) 
, it is called a precognition. 


ecting an individual in any. 


ial disposition, needs, and 
level: fulfilled, presently 
er individuals: their dis- 
eir lives. 

egration is not possible if 
re to be absolutely cut off 


ntialities and their inte- 
ake place by various kinds 
resemblance. Resonating 
tensity and stability, and 


cived of as a mutual adap- 
sh other. It would occur 
ic logical process, prior to 
as the molecule to absorb 
Ost instantaneously. Each 
tured out of categories of 
Sroup is such a structure; 
,” wherever placed); the 
nceptual sameness of some 
eristics, 

ividual results when he is 
1xations are emotionality, 
mena, and absorption in 
ion and words and faintly 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


— 


hse abhi wa act ie tana ng $a aS ata ae one, 


— 


Quantum Theory and Parapsychology 357 


merged in a general impression of the physical world and body). 
The last two of these characterize the normal physical state. 

(c) There is an analogue of fixation in physics, better described 
as limitation or exclusion; namely, the exclusion of all resonance 
between objective physical and individual potentialities, direc- 
tionally from the individual to the object (save indirectly, by 
muscular action). Such exclusion may be’ considered normal, but 
cannot be absolute, since voluntary mental action can initiate 
electromagnetic action and thus observable physical changes. It is 
not known precisely in what ways individual potentialities can 
combine with impersonally physical ones so as to effect physical 
changes. 

In terms of these axioms, telepathy may be explained simply as 
resonance between the thought-image spheres of individuals. Clair- 
voyance is resonance between the potentiality-sphere of a physical 
object or event and the thought-image sphere of an individual. 
Precognition is resonance between a provisional potentiality in the 
physical sphere and the thought-image sphere of an individual. In 
each case one individual (the percipient) must be in a thought- 
image state, and his potentialities there for resonance of the respec- 
tive kind must have a certain degree of openness and stability. 


SUMMARY 


Endeavoring now to sum up the relevance of quantum theory to 
parapsychology, I think we can safely say that this does not lie in 
the inducement which its formalism offers for extension by means of 
mathematical theories of imaginary time or mass, joint probability 
distributions, homology, etc., while phenomenological analysis of 
the basic experimental situations in quantum theory is not at- 
tempted. Indeed, phenomena such as telepathy, clairvoyance, and 
precognition, which can only be observed by an individual human 
being and cannot be recorded photographically or by any other 
direct physical means, are reasonably held to be not “‘physical”’ and 
thus not within the province of quantum theory. 

What I have tried to show is that there is an intimate episte- 
mological relevance of quantum theory, rightly understood, to the 
problem of providing a scientifically acceptable conceptual frame- 
work within which parapsychological phenomena make sense as 
part of nature and human life in their entirety. 

In short, the hierarchical world-view, although supported by 
powerful arguments from philosophy, is likely to prove so puzzling 
for people brought up in the traditions of ‘“one-level naturalism” 
that they might ordinarily be excused for saying: “This is hazily 


3 


dpsicarcbadi waa sn ca iE dan oh bad ns SEC Bie tt nd Set Ramat a Lane ane ate 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : a Se ai aie ee 
. “yy ; \ 


Re ee ieee re ERONE SOT ROE De EPTE CEE MADE T RAITT OLE REUTER oe Batata oe Ne 
be 
: 
: 
; 358 Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research 


z unscientific word-play, unconvincing as an account of telepathy, 
4 clairvoyance, and precognition.” The clear content of the words 
is missed because of a natural conservatism which tries to adhere 
to quite another system of ideas. 

But now we have seen, in quantum theory, a supremely scientific 
theory which in its foundations is not a “saving of appearances” 
but a direct phenomenological analysis of experimental data; and 
this theory presents a precise mathematical formalism of the very 
points considered most hazy and difficult to grasp; namely, con- 
ceptual structures having the character of “potentiality,” a “non- 
actual” (but nevertheless “‘real”) category of existence and thus a 
“degree of reality” transcending the “simply-locational” in time 
and space, and the production of an actual phenomenon from that 
potentiality according to the whole conditions on the occasion in 
question. 

Hence in quantum theory we have an explicit nature-given 
illustration of how these conceptions which are being offered are 
not only perfectly feasible and precise, but have been tested out 
and found to yield results scientifically confirmed, where ‘older 
world-views have conspicuously failed. 


that RENE T hal mes cementite 


REFERENCES 


1. BALLENTINE, L. E. The statistical interpretation of quantum 
mechanics. Reviews of Modern Physics, 42, 1970, 358-381. 

. Bastin, T. The function of the Colloquium, In T. Bastin (Ed.), 
Quantum Theory and Beyond. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni- 
versity Press, 1971. Pp. 1-12. 

. Betz, J. S. On the problem of hidden variables in quantum 
mechanics. Reviews of Modern Physics, 38, 1966, 447-452. 

- Boum, D. Causality and Chance in Modern Physics. London: 
Routledge and Kegan Paul, 1957. 

- Boum, D. On creativity. Leonardo, I. London: Pergamon Press, 
1968. 

- Boum, D. The role of hidden variables. In 'T. Bastin (Ed.), 
Quantum Theory and Beyond. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni- 
versity Press, 1971. Pp. 95-116. 

7. Bour, N. Atomic Theory and the Description of Nature. Cam- 

bridge: Cambridge University Press, 1932. ? 

8. Born, M. Natural Philosophy of Cause and Chance. London: 

Oxford University Press, 1948. 
9. Broap, C. D. The local historical background of contemporary 
Cambridge philosophy. In C. A. Mace (Ed.), British Philosophy 
in the Mid-Century. London: Allen and Unwin, 1957. Pp. 13-61. 


ae ak BARENS cen dnm ne Ra masala Leachate A Besa elites 
i) 


RH A Lh Ww 


alate iti itn ennai RLS UPA a oii mca Sco 0 


LBA ote. 


Declassified ania Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


a 


 Psychical Research 


account of telepathy, 
- content of the words 
1 which tries to adhere 


, a supremely scientific 
saving of appearances” 
‘xperimental data; and 
formalism of the very 
9 grasp; namely, con- 
‘potentiality,” a “non- 
f existence and thus a 
»ly-locational” in time 
»henomenon from that 
ons on the occasion in 


explicit nature-given 
| are being offered are 
‘have been tested out 
mfirmed, where older 


‘pretation of quantum 
42, 1970, 358-381. 

im. In T. Bastin (Ed.), 
ige: Cambridge Uni- 


variables in quantum 
38, 1966, 447-452. 
dern Physics. London: 


ndon: Pergamon Press, 


s. In T. Bastin (Ed.), 
ige: Cambridge Uni- 


btton of Nature. Cam- 
and Chance. London: 
ound of contemporary 


d.), British Philosophy 
nwin, 1957. Pp. 13-61. 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


~ 


seats are cane cate tee ee 
ps tame aisle Sia pe aT 
: tows. 
eo he Ny 


Aree eNirien atm, eeremernt. prenngene — 


Fe eons ; Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 a 


Quantum Theory and Parapsychology 359 


10. 
ll. 
12. 


13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 


17. 
18. 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 
24. 
25s 


26 


ai. 


Cuari, C. T. K. Precognition, probability, and quantum me- 
chanics. Journal A.S.P.R., 66, 1972, 193-207. 

Dosss, H. A. C. Time and ESP. Proceedings S.P.R., 54, 1965, 
249-361. 

Dosss, H. A. C. The feasibility of a physical theory of ESP. 
In J. R. Smythies (Ed.), Science and ESP. London: Routledge 
and Kegan Paul, 1967. Pp. 225-254. 

EINSTEIN, A. Foreword to M. Jammer, Concepts of Space. 
New York: Harper & Row, 1960. Pp. xii-xvi. 

FEYERABEND, P. K. Eine Bemerkung zum Neumannschen 
Beweis. Zeitschrift fiir Physik, 145, 1956, 421-423. 
FEYERABEND, P. K. On a recent critique of complementarity. 
Philosophy of Science, 35, 1968, 309-331; 36, 1969, 82-105. 
Friscu, O. R. The experimentalist’s point of view. In T. Bastin 
(Ed.), Quantum Theory and Beyond. Cambridge: Cambridge 
University Press, 1971. Pp. 13-21. 

Goon, I. J. The Scientist Speculates. New York: Basic Books, 
1962. 

HEISENBERG, W. The development of the interpretation of the 
quantum theory. In W. Pauli (Ed.), Niels Bohr and the Develop- 
ment of Physics. London: Pergamon Press, 1955. Pp. 12-29. 
HEISENBERG, W. Die Plancksche Entdeckung und die philo- 
sophischen Grundfragen der Atomlehre. Mitteilungen aus der 
Max-Planck-Gesellschaft, 3, 1958, 140-161. 

HEISENBERG, W. Physics and Philosophy. London: Allen and 
Unwin, 1959. 

JAnossy, L., AND NAray, Z. Investigations into interference 
phenomena at extremely low light intensities, by means of a 
large Michelson interferometer. Nuovo Cimento Supplemento, 
9, 1958, 588-598. 

Jaucn, J. M., Wiener, E. P., anp Yanase, M. M. Some com- 
ments concerning measurements in quantum mechanics. Nuovo 
Cimento, 48B, 1967, 144-151. 

Lonpon, F., anpD Bautr, E. La théorie de l’observation en 
méchanique quantique. Paris: Hermann, 1939. 


‘Marcenau, H. Measurements and quantum states. Philosophy 


of Science, 30, 1963, 1-16; 138-157. 
MessiaH, A. Quantum Mechanics, I. Amsterdam: North-Holland 
Publishing Co., 1961. 


.. PEYERLS, R. E. Review of M. Jammer’s The Conceptual Develop- 
-ment of Quantum Mechanics. Scientific American, 216, 1967, 137. 


Quoted in (1), p. 358, and (10), p. 196. 


Popper, K. R. The propensity interpretation of the calculus of 


probability and the quantum theory.InS. Kérner(Ed.), Observa- 
tion and Interpretation. London: Butterworths, 1957. Pp. 65-70. 


| 
i 
f 
| 


ee. 


RE ge Fo A 


ee Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 


a 


P79-00999A000200 


4 


és 


- CIA-RI 


00 


360. Fournal of the American Society for Psychical Research 


28. RUDERFER, M. Correspondence. Journal A:S.P.R., 62, 1968, 
84-86. oo 
29. Scuitpp, P. A. (Ed.). Albert Evnstein, Philosopher-Scientist. 
_ Evanston and Chicago:. Northwestern University Press, 1948. 
30. Sngep, J. D. Von Neumann’s argument for the Projection 
___ Postulate. Philosophy of Science, 33, 1966, 22-39. 
31. Von Neumann, J. Mathematical Foundations of Quantum Me- 
chanics. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1955. 
32. WHITEHEAD, A. N. Science and-the Modern World. Cambridge: 
Cambridge University Press, 1926, 
- 33. Wuireman, J. H. M. Philosophy of Space and Time. London: 
Allen and Unwin, 1967. 
34. Wuiteman, J. H. M. The phenomenology of observation and 
explanation in quantum theory. In T. Bastin (Ed.), Quantum 
Theory and Beyond. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 
1971. Pp. 71-84. 


Department of Applied Mathematics 
University of Cape Town 
| Rondebosch, C. P., South Africa 


. Declassified and Approved For Release 2014/01/09 : CIA-RDP79-00999A000200010009-6 


