-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 F7Pffhq6BNCjYlGPJUxZYJcx59Mt4rWNvajOjL/RpTU7HbPNXpOVQEHGO7kHqLLO
 0ayhWknaHNHvjcE064qScg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950123-99-004867.txt : 19990518
<SEC-HEADER>0000950123-99-004867.hdr.sgml : 19990518
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-99-004867
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	S-1/A
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
FILED AS OF DATE:		19990517

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000886982
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				133501777
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1126

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		S-1/A
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	333-75321
		FILM NUMBER:		99628458

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		85 BROAD ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10004
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2129021000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		85 BROAD ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10004
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>S-1/A
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
 
   
      AS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION ON MAY 17, 1999
    
 
                                                      REGISTRATION NO. 333-75321
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549
                            ------------------------
 
   
                                AMENDMENT NO. 3
    
                                       TO
                                    FORM S-1
                             REGISTRATION STATEMENT
                                     UNDER
                           THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
                            ------------------------
 
                         THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
<TABLE>
<S>                                 <C>                                 <C>
             DELAWARE                              6211                             13-4019460
  (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF      (PRIMARY STANDARD INDUSTRIAL              (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
  INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)        CLASSIFICATION CODE NUMBER)           IDENTIFICATION NUMBER)
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
                                85 BROAD STREET
                            NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10004
                                 (212) 902-1000
  (ADDRESS, INCLUDING ZIP CODE, AND TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE, OF
                   REGISTRANT'S PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)
 
                                 ROBERT J. KATZ
                                GREGORY K. PALM
                              GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
                                85 BROAD STREET
                            NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10004
                                 (212) 902-1000
 (NAME, ADDRESS, INCLUDING ZIP CODE, AND TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE,
                             OF AGENT FOR SERVICE)
                            ------------------------
 
                                   COPIES TO:
 
                            RICARDO A. MESTRES, JR.
                                  JOHN P. MEAD
                                 DAVID B. HARMS
                              ROBERT W. REEDER III
                              SULLIVAN & CROMWELL
                                125 BROAD STREET
                            NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10004
                                 (212) 558-4000
                            ------------------------
 
          APPROXIMATE DATE OF COMMENCEMENT OF PROPOSED SALE TO THE PUBLIC:
As soon as practicable after the effective date of this Registration Statement.
                            ------------------------
 
    If any of the securities being registered on this Form are to be offered on
a delayed or continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act of
1933, check the following box.  [X]
 
    If this Form is filed to register additional securities for an offering
pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act, check the following box and
list the Securities Act registration statement number of the earlier effective
registration statement for the same offering. [ ]
 
    If this Form is a post-effective amendment filed pursuant to Rule 462(c)
under the Securities Act, check the following box and list the Securities Act
registration statement number of the earlier effective registration statement
for the same offering. [ ]
 
    If this Form is a post-effective amendment filed pursuant to Rule 462(d)
under the Securities Act, check the following box and list the Securities Act
registration statement number of the earlier effective registration statement
for the same offering. [ ]
 
    If the delivery of the prospectus is expected to be made pursuant to Rule
434 under the Securities Act, check the following box. [ ]
                            ------------------------
 
    THE REGISTRANT HEREBY AMENDS THIS REGISTRATION STATEMENT ON SUCH DATE OR
DATES AS MAY BE NECESSARY TO DELAY ITS EFFECTIVE DATE UNTIL THE REGISTRANT SHALL
FILE A FURTHER AMENDMENT WHICH SPECIFICALLY STATES THAT THIS REGISTRATION
STATEMENT SHALL THEREAFTER BECOME EFFECTIVE IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 8(a) OF
THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, OR UNTIL THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT SHALL BECOME
EFFECTIVE ON SUCH DATE AS THE COMMISSION, ACTING PURSUANT TO SAID SECTION 8(a),
MAY DETERMINE.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>   2
 
                                EXPLANATORY NOTE
 
     This registration statement contains a prospectus relating to both of the
following:
 
     - the offering of newly issued Medium-Term Notes, Series B, of The Goldman
       Sachs Group, Inc. on an ongoing basis, at an aggregate initial public
       offering price of up to $15,000,000,000; and
 
     - market-making transactions that may occur on an ongoing basis in notes
       that have been previously issued in the offering described above.
 
     When the prospectus is delivered to an investor in the initial offering
described above, the investor will be informed of that fact in the confirmation
of sale. When the prospectus is delivered to an investor who is not so informed,
it is delivered in a market-making transaction.
 
     As part of the initial offering described above, The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. intends to sell one or more notes in a manner permitted by Rule 430A under
the Securities Act of 1933. This registration statement includes the forms of
prospectus supplements that may be used in making offers and sales under Rule
430A. When a sale under Rule 430A occurs, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. will
file the applicable form pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of
1933. Prospectus supplements used in connection with other offers and sales of
notes may be in different forms and contain other information.
 
                                        i
<PAGE>   3
   
THE INFORMATION IN THIS PRELIMINARY PROSPECTUS IS NOT COMPLETE AND MAY BE
CHANGED. THESE SECURITIES MAY NOT BE SOLD UNTIL THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT FILED
WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION IS EFFECTIVE. THIS PRELIMINARY
PROSPECTUS IS NOT AN OFFER TO SELL NOR DOES IT SEEK AN OFFER TO BUY THESE
SECURITIES IN ANY JURISDICTION WHERE THE OFFER OR SALE IS NOT PERMITTED.
    
 
                                                                  Rule 424(b)(1)
 
                                            Registration Statement No. 333-75321
 
   
                   Subject to Completion. Dated May 17, 1999.
    
 
  Prospectus Supplement No.       to the Prospectus dated             , 1999.
 
   
                                   $5,000,000
    
   
    
 
                         THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
 
                          Medium-Term Notes, Series B
 
                            ------------------------
 
    The note being purchased has the following terms:
 
   
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT: $5,000,000
    
 
   
STATED MATURITY:           , 2002
    
 
   
SPECIFIED CURRENCY: U.S. dollars
    
 
   
    - principal: U.S. dollars
    
   
    - interest: U.S. dollars
    
   
    - exchange rate agent: not applicable
    
 
   
ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE: May   , 1999
    
 
ORIGINAL ISSUE PRICE (%):
 
NET PROCEEDS TO GOLDMAN SACHS (%):
 
   
ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT NOTE: no
    
 
    - total amount of OID:
    - yield to maturity:
 
    - initial accrual period OID:
 
FORM OF NOTE:
 
   
    - global form only: yes
    
   
    - non-global form available: no
    
 
   
REDEMPTION AND REPAYMENT: not applicable
    
 
    - redemption commencement date:
    - repayment date(s):
    - redemption or repayment price(s):
 
   
IF INTEREST RATE IS FIXED: not applicable
    
 
    - annual rate:
    - interest payment date(s):
    - regular record date(s):


IF INTEREST RATE IS FLOATING:
 
    - base rate:
 
      - commercial paper rate:
      - prime rate:
   
      - LIBOR: yes
    
   
         - Telerate LIBOR page: 3750
    
   
         - Reuters screen LIBOR page: no
    
   
         - index currency: U.S. dollars
    
      - EURIBOR:
      - treasury rate:
      - CMT rate:
         - Telerate page 7051:
         - Telerate page 7052 (weekly/monthly):
         - CMT index maturity (if not two years):
      - CD rate:
      - federal funds rate:
      - 11th district rate:
   
    - index maturity: three months
    
   
    - spread: +15 basis points
    
   
    - spread multiplier: none
    
    - initial base rate:
   
    - maximum rate: none
    
   
    - minimum rate: none
    
   
    - interest reset period: quarterly
    
   
    - interest payment date(s): third Wednesday of March, June, September and
      December
    
   
    - calculation agent: The Bank of New York
    
 
   
DEFEASANCE APPLIES AS FOLLOWS: not applicable
    
 
    - full defeasance -- i.e., our right to be relieved of all our obligations
      on the note by placing funds in trust for the investor:
    - covenant defeasance -- i.e., our right to be relieved of specified
      provisions of the note by placing funds in trust for the investor:
 
- ---------------
 
     The information above, if any, about the original issue date, original
issue price, net proceeds and original issue discount relates only to the
initial sale of the note. If the note is sold in a market-making transaction
after its initial sale, information about the price paid and the date of the
sale will be provided in a separate confirmation of sale. Please refer to the
attached prospectus for additional information about the note being purchased.
                            ------------------------
     NEITHER THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION NOR ANY OTHER REGULATORY
BODY HAS APPROVED OR DISAPPROVED OF THESE SECURITIES OR PASSED UPON THE ADEQUACY
OR ACCURACY OF THIS PROSPECTUS.
ANY REPRESENTATION TO THE CONTRARY IS A CRIMINAL OFFENSE.
                            ------------------------
 
     Goldman Sachs may use this prospectus supplement in the initial sale of the
note. In addition, Goldman, Sachs & Co. or any other affiliate of Goldman Sachs
may use this prospectus supplement in a market-making transaction in the note
after its initial sale. UNLESS GOLDMAN SACHS OR ITS AGENT INFORMS THE PURCHASER
OTHERWISE IN THE CONFIRMATION OF SALE, THIS PROSPECTUS SUPPLEMENT IS BEING USED
IN A MARKET-MAKING TRANSACTION.
                              GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
                            ------------------------
 
                  Prospectus Supplement dated          , 1999.
   
    
<PAGE>   4
The information in this preliminary prospectus is not complete and may be
changed. These securities may not be sold until the registration statement filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission is effective. This preliminary
prospectus is not an offer to sell nor does it seek an offer to buy these
securities in any jurisdiction where the offer or sale is not permitted.

   
                   Subject to Completion. Dated May 17, 1999.
    
                                                                  Rule 424(b)(1)
                                                          Registration Statement
                                                                   No. 333-75321
   
  PROSPECTUS SUPPLEMENT NO.       TO THE PROSPECTUS DATED                , 1999.
    
 
   
                                   $4,000,000
    
                         THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
 
                          Medium-Term Notes, Series B
 
[GOLDMAN SACHS LOGO]
                            ------------------------
 
   
                           % Mandatory Exchangeable Note due 2002
    
   
  (Subject to Mandatory Exchange into Shares of Common Stock of Gateway 2000,
                                     Inc.)
    
                            ------------------------
 
     The note being purchased has the terms described beginning on page S-6,
including the following:
 
   
FACE AMOUNT: $4,000,000
    
 
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT:  on the stated maturity date, Goldman Sachs will exchange the
  note for the index stock at the exchange rate or, at the option of Goldman
  Sachs, for the cash value of that stock based on the final index stock price
 
   
INDEX STOCK AND INDEX STOCK ISSUER:  common stock of Gateway 2000, Inc.
    
 
   
STATED MATURITY DATE:            , 2000 unless extended to a date not later than
  [stated maturity + 7 days]
    
 
FIXED INTEREST RATE:    % each year
 
  - interest payment dates: each February   , May   , August   and November   ,
    beginning August   , 1999
 
  - regular record dates: each February   , May   , August   and November
 
ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE:
 
ORIGINAL ISSUE PRICE:    % of the face amount
 
NET PROCEEDS TO GOLDMAN SACHS:    % of the face amount
 
EXCHANGE RATE:  subject to antidilution adjustment, this rate will equal either:
 
  - if the final index stock price equals or exceeds the threshold appreciation
    price, a number of shares of the index stock equal to the threshold fraction
    or
 
  - if the final index stock price is less than the threshold appreciation
    price, one share of the index stock,
 
  for each $       [initial index stock price] of the outstanding face amount
 
INITIAL INDEX STOCK PRICE:  $          for one share of the index stock
 
FINAL INDEX STOCK PRICE:  the closing price of one share of the index stock on
  the determination date, subject to antidilution adjustment
 
THRESHOLD APPRECIATION PRICE:  the initial index stock price times [a number
  between 1 and 4]
 
THRESHOLD FRACTION:  the threshold appreciation price divided by the final index
  stock price
   
CALCULATION AGENT: Goldman, Sachs & Co.
     
     See "Additional Risk Factors Specific to Your Note" beginning on page S-2
to read about investment risks relating to the note being purchased.
                            ------------------------
 
     NEITHER THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION NOR ANY OTHER REGULATORY
BODY HAS APPROVED OR DISAPPROVED OF THESE SECURITIES OR PASSED UPON THE ADEQUACY
OR ACCURACY OF THIS PROSPECTUS.
ANY REPRESENTATION TO THE CONTRARY IS A CRIMINAL OFFENSE.
 
                            ------------------------
 
     Goldman Sachs may use this prospectus supplement in the initial sale of the
note. In addition, Goldman, Sachs & Co. or any other affiliate of Goldman Sachs
may use this prospectus supplement in a market-making transaction in the note
after its initial sale. UNLESS GOLDMAN SACHS OR ITS AGENT INFORMS THE PURCHASER
OTHERWISE IN THE CONFIRMATION OF SALE, THIS PROSPECTUS SUPPLEMENT IS BEING USED
IN A MARKET-MAKING TRANSACTION.
                              GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
                            ------------------------
 
               Prospectus Supplement dated                , 1999.
<PAGE>   5
 
                 ADDITIONAL RISK FACTORS SPECIFIC TO YOUR NOTE
 
     An investment in your note is subject to risks described in the attached
prospectus under "Risk Factors", including those relating to indexed notes, and
to the risks described below. Your note is a riskier investment than ordinary
debt securities. Also, your note is not equivalent to investing directly in the
stock to which your note is indexed. You should carefully consider whether the
note is suited to your particular circumstances.
 
 THE MARKET PRICE OF YOUR NOTE MAY BE INFLUENCED BY MANY UNPREDICTABLE FACTORS
 
     The following factors, many of which are beyond our control, will influence
the value of your note:
 
- - the market price of the index stock;
 
- - the volatility -- i.e., the frequency and magnitude of changes in the market
  price of the index stock;
 
   
     -- As indicated under "Gateway 2000, Inc. -- Historical Information", the
        market price of the index stock has been highly volatile during recent
        periods. It is impossible to predict whether the price of the index
        stock will rise or fall;
    
 
- - the dividend rate on the index stock;
 
- - economic, financial, regulatory and political events that affect stock markets
  generally and the market segment of which the index stock is a part, and which
  may affect the market price of the index stock;
 
- - interest and yield rates in the market;
 
- - the time remaining until your note matures; and
 
- - our creditworthiness.
 
These factors will influence the price you will receive if you sell your note
prior to maturity. You cannot predict the future performance of the index stock
based on its historical performance.
 
                       TRADING AND OTHER TRANSACTIONS BY
                      GOLDMAN SACHS IN THE INDEX STOCK MAY
                         IMPAIR THE VALUE OF YOUR NOTE
 
   
     As we have described under "Use of Proceeds and Hedging" below, we, through
Goldman, Sachs & Co. or one or more of our other affiliates, have hedged our
obligations under your note by purchasing the index stock and may adjust the
hedge by, among other things, purchasing or selling the index stock, at any time
and from time to time. Any of these hedging activities may adversely affect the
price of the index stock and, therefore, the value of your note. It is possible
that we, through our affiliates, could receive substantial returns with respect
to our hedging activities while the value of your note may decline. See "Use of
Proceeds and Hedging" for a further discussion of securities transactions in
which we or one or more of our affiliates may engage.
    
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. and our other affiliates may also engage in trading in
the index stock for their proprietary accounts, for other accounts under their
management and to facilitate transactions, including block transactions, on
behalf of customers. Any of these activities of Goldman, Sachs & Co. or our
other affiliates could adversely affect the price of the index stock and,
therefore, the value of your note. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and our other affiliates
may also issue or underwrite other securities or financial or derivative
instruments with returns linked or related to changes in the value of the index
stock. By introducing competing products into the marketplace in this manner,
our affiliates could adversely affect the value of your note.
 
     The indenture governing your note does not contain any restriction on our
ability or the ability of any of our affiliates to sell, pledge or otherwise
convey all or any portion of the index stock acquired by us or them. Neither we
nor our affiliates will pledge or otherwise hold shares of the index stock for
your benefit in order to enable you to exchange them for your note under any
circumstances. Consequently, in the event of our bankruptcy,
 
                                       S-2
<PAGE>   6
 
insolvency or liquidation, any index stock owned by us will be subject to the
claims of our other creditors, but not you.
 
                  THE PRINCIPAL OF YOUR NOTE IS NOT PROTECTED
 
     The principal of your note is not protected. Thus, you may lose your entire
investment in your note, depending on the closing price of the index stock on
the determination date.
 
        THE POTENTIAL FOR THE VALUE OF YOUR NOTE TO INCREASE IS LIMITED
 
     Your ability to participate in any rise in the market value of the index
stock is limited. The note is structured so that in no event will you receive
cash or index stock, valued as of the determination date, in excess of the
threshold appreciation price specified on the front cover page for each
$          of the outstanding face amount of your note.
 
 IF THE MARKET PRICE OF THE INDEX STOCK CHANGES, THE MARKET PRICE OF YOUR NOTE
                       MAY NOT CHANGE IN THE SAME MANNER
 
     Prior to the stated maturity date, the value of the note may NOT have a
one-to-one relationship with changes in the price of the index stock. Even if
the price of the index stock equals or exceeds the threshold appreciation price
specified on the front cover page, the market price of the note will usually be
less than the threshold appreciation price, except on the stated maturity date.
 
                         YOU HAVE NO SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS
 
     You are not a holder of the index stock. Neither you nor any other holder
or owner of the note will have any voting rights, any right to receive dividends
or other distributions or any other rights with respect to the index stock.
 
  OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES MAY CREATE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST BETWEEN YOU AND US
 
     As we have noted above, Goldman, Sachs & Co. and our other affiliates
expect to engage in trading activities related to the index stock that are not
for your account or on your behalf. These trading activities may present a
conflict of interest between your interests and the interests Goldman, Sachs &
Co. and our other affiliates will have in their proprietary accounts, in
facilitating transactions, including block trades, for their customers and in
accounts under their management. These trading activities, if they influence the
price of the index stock, could be adverse to your interests as a beneficial
owner of the note.
 
   
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. and our other affiliates may, at present or in the
future, engage in business with the issuer of the index stock, including making
loans to or equity investments in that company or providing advisory services to
that company. These services could include merger and acquisition advisory
services. These activities may present a conflict between the obligations of
Goldman, Sachs & Co. or another affiliate of Goldman Sachs and your interests as
a beneficial owner of the note. Moreover, Goldman, Sachs & Co. has published and
anticipates that it will in the future publish research reports with respect to
the issuer of the index stock. Any of these activities by Goldman, Sachs & Co.
or another of our affiliates may affect the price of the index stock and,
therefore, the value of your note.
    
 
   AS CALCULATION AGENT, GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO. WILL HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO MAKE
 DETERMINATIONS THAT COULD AFFECT THE MARKET VALUE OF YOUR NOTE, WHEN YOUR NOTE
                 MATURES AND THE AMOUNT YOU RECEIVE AT MATURITY
 
     As calculation agent for your note, Goldman, Sachs & Co. will have
discretion in making various determinations that affect your note, including
determining whether and how to make antidilution adjustments to the exchange
rate, determining the closing price of the index stock and determining whether
to postpone the stated maturity date because of a market disruption event. See
"Specific Terms of Your Note -- Antidilution Adjustments" and "-- Special
Calculation Provisions". The exercise of this discretion by Goldman, Sachs & Co.
could adversely affect the value of your note and may present
 
                                       S-3
<PAGE>   7
 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. with a conflict of interest of the kind described above
under "-- Our Business Activities May Create Conflicts of Interest Between You
and Us".
 
 THERE IS NO AFFILIATION BETWEEN THE INDEX STOCK ISSUER AND US, AND WE ARE NOT
              RESPONSIBLE FOR THE INDEX STOCK ISSUER'S DISCLOSURE
 
   
     Goldman Sachs is not affiliated with the issuer of the index stock. As we
have told you above, however, we or our affiliates may currently or from time to
time in the future engage in business with the index stock issuer. Nevertheless,
neither we nor any of our affiliates assumes any responsibility for the adequacy
or accuracy of the information contained in this prospectus supplement about the
index stock issuer or in any of the index stock issuer's publicly available
filings. You, as an investor in the note, should make your own investigation
into the index stock issuer. See "Gateway 2000, Inc." for additional information
about the index stock issuer.
    
 
     The index stock issuer is not involved in this offering of your note in any
way and has no obligation of any sort with respect to your note. Thus, the index
stock issuer has no obligation to take your interests into consideration for any
reason, including in taking any corporate actions that might affect the value of
your note.
 
                             YOUR NOTE MAY NOT HAVE
                            AN ACTIVE TRADING MARKET
 
     We do not plan to have your note listed on any securities exchange or
included in any quotation system, and there may be little or no secondary market
for your note. Even if a secondary market for your note develops, it may not
provide significant liquidity and we expect that transaction costs in any
secondary market would be high. As a result, the difference between bid and
asked prices for your note in any secondary market could be substantial.
 
                    YOU HAVE LIMITED ANTIDILUTION PROTECTION
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co., as calculation agent for your note, will adjust the
exchange rate for stock splits, reverse stock splits, stock dividends,
extraordinary dividends and other events that affect the index stock issuer's
capital structure, but only in the situations we describe in "Specific Terms of
Your Note -- Antidilution Adjustments". The calculation agent is not required to
make an adjustment for every corporate event that may affect the index stock.
For example, the calculation agent will not adjust the exchange rate for events
such as an offering of the index stock for cash by the index stock issuer, a
tender or exchange offer for the index stock at a premium to its then-current
market price by the index stock issuer or a tender or exchange offer for less
than all the outstanding index stock by a third party. Those events may
nevertheless adversely affect the market price of the index stock and,
therefore, adversely affect the value of your note. We cannot assure you that
the index stock issuer or a third party will not make an offering or a tender or
exchange offer, or that the index stock issuer will not take any other action,
that adversely affects the value of the index stock and your note but does not
result in an antidilution adjustment for your benefit.
 
  WE CAN POSTPONE THE STATED MATURITY DATE IF A MARKET DISRUPTION EVENT OCCURS
 
     If the calculation agent determines that, on the determination date, a
market disruption event has occurred or is continuing, the determination date
will be postponed until the first day on which no market disruption event has
occurred or is continuing. As a result, the stated maturity date for your note
will also be postponed, although not more than seven days. Thus, you may not
receive the cash or the index stock that we are obligated to deliver on the
stated maturity date until several days after the originally scheduled due date.
Moreover, if the closing price of the index stock is not available on the
determination date because of a continuing market disruption event or for any
other reason, the calculation agent will nevertheless determine the final index
stock price based on its
 
                                       S-4
<PAGE>   8
 
assessment, made in its sole discretion, of the market value of the index stock
at that time.
 
     THE TAX CONSEQUENCES OF AN INVESTMENT IN THE NOTE ARE HIGHLY UNCERTAIN
 
     The tax consequences of an investment in the note are highly uncertain,
both as to the timing and character of any inclusion in income in respect of the
note. We discuss these matters below under "Supplemental Discussion of Federal
Income Tax Consequences".
 
                                       S-5
<PAGE>   9
 
                          SPECIFIC TERMS OF YOUR NOTE
 
Please note that in this section entitled "Specific Terms of Your Note",
references to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., we, our and us mean only The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and do not include its consolidated subsidiaries,
while references to Goldman Sachs mean The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. together
with its consolidated subsidiaries. Also, references to Holders mean those who
own notes registered in their own names, on the books that we or the trustee
maintain for this purpose, and not indirect holders who own beneficial interests
in notes registered in street name or in notes issued in book-entry form through
The Depository Trust Company. Please review the special considerations that
apply to indirect holders in the attached prospectus, under "Description of
Notes We May Offer -- Legal Ownership of Notes".
 
     Your note is one of a series of debt securities, entitled "Medium-Term
Notes, Series B", that we may issue under the indenture from time to time. This
prospectus supplement summarizes specific financial and other terms that apply
to your note; terms that apply generally to all Series B medium-term notes are
described in "Description of Notes We May Offer" in the attached prospectus. The
terms described here supplement those described in the attached prospectus and,
if the terms described here are inconsistent with those described there, the
terms described here are controlling.
 
     In addition to those described on the front cover page, the following terms
will apply to your note:
 
SPECIFIED CURRENCY:
- - principal: U.S. dollars
- - interest: U.S. dollars
 
LISTING:  your note will not be listed on any securities exchange or quotation
system
 
FORM OF NOTE:
   
- - global form only: yes
    
   
- - non-global form available: no
    
 
DENOMINATIONS:  multiples of the initial index stock price specified on the
front cover page
 
CALCULATION AGENT:  Goldman, Sachs & Co.
 
DEFEASANCE APPLIES AS FOLLOWS:
- - full defeasance: no
- - covenant defeasance: no
 
OTHER TERMS:
- - the default amount will be payable on any acceleration of the maturity of your
  note as described below under "-- Special Calculation Provisions"
 
- - antidilution provisions will apply to your note as described below under
  "-- Antidulution Adjustments"
 
- - a business day for your note will not be the same as a business day for our
  other Series B medium-term notes, as described below under "-- Special
  Calculation Provisions"
 
   
In this prospectus supplement, when we refer to the index stock, we mean the
common stock of Gateway 2000, Inc. and, when we refer to the index stock issuer,
we mean that company, except as noted below under "-- Antidilution
Adjustments -- Reorganization Events -- Exchange Property".
    
 
     Please note that the information about the original issue date, original
issue price and net proceeds to Goldman Sachs on the front cover page relates
only to the initial sale of the note. If you have purchased the note in a
market-making transaction after the initial sale, information about the price
and date of sale to you will be provided in a separate confirmation of sale.
 
     We describe the terms of your note in more detail below.
 
                  PAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL ON STATED MATURITY DATE
 
     On the stated maturity date, we will exchange your note for shares of the
index stock at the exchange rate. Alternatively, at our sole option, we may pay
you cash in an amount equal to the number of shares of the index stock we would
otherwise be obligated to deliver in exchange for your note, multiplied by the
final index stock price. If we choose to deliver cash, we will notify you of our
election at least ten business days prior
 
                                       S-6
<PAGE>   10
 
to the stated maturity date; IF WE DO NOT NOTIFY YOU, WE WILL DELIVER SHARES OF
THE INDEX STOCK.
 
EXCHANGE RATE
 
The exchange rate will equal either:
 
- - if the final index stock price equals or exceeds the threshold appreciation
  price, a number of shares of index stock equal to the threshold fraction for
  each $     [initial index stock price] of the outstanding face amount of the
  Note; or
 
- - if the final index stock price is less than the threshold appreciation price,
  one share of index stock for each $     [initial index stock price] of the
  outstanding face amount of the note.
 
We specify the initial index stock price, final index stock price, threshold
appreciation price and threshold fraction on the front cover page.
 
     The exchange rate may be adjusted, with respect to both the amount and type
of consideration, as a result of dilution events, as we describe below under
"-- Antidilution Adjustments". In addition, if an exchange would otherwise
involve a fractional share of the index stock, we will pay cash instead of the
fractional share, in an amount equal to that fraction multiplied by the final
index stock price.
 
     The shares of the index stock, together with any cash payable for a
fractional share and after giving effect to any antidilution adjustments, that
we must deliver on the stated maturity date in exchange for your note represent
the principal amount of your note, unless we elect to deliver cash. In that
event, the cash we must pay in exchange for your note on the stated maturity
date represents the principal amount of your note.
 
STATED MATURITY DATE
 
   
     The stated maturity date will be           , 2000 unless that day is not a
business day, in which case the stated maturity date will be the next following
business day. If the fifth business day before this applicable day is not the
determination date referred to below, however, then the stated maturity date
will be the fifth business day following the determination date, provided that
the stated maturity date will never be later than           , 2000 [stated
maturity + 7 days]. The calculation agent may postpone the determination date if
a market disruption event occurs or is continuing. We describe market disruption
events below under "-- Special Calculation Provisions".
    
 
DETERMINATION DATE
 
   
     The determination date will be the fifth business day before the stated
maturity date, unless a market disruption event occurs or is continuing on that
business day. In that event, the determination date will be the first following
business day on which a market disruption event does not occur and is not
continuing. In no event, however, will the determination date be later than the
fifth business day before           , 2000 [stated maturity + 7 days].
    
 
     As indicated above, the determination date may be postponed no more than
seven days. If a market disruption event continues for seven days after the
originally scheduled determination date and the closing price for the index
stock is still not available on the seventh day, the calculation agent will
nevertheless determine the final index stock price on the seventh day, based on
its assessment, made in its sole discretion, of the market value of the index
stock at that time.
 
                               INTEREST PAYMENTS
 
     Interest will accrue on the outstanding face amount of your note and will
be calculated and paid as described in the attached prospectus with regard to
fixed rate notes, except that the interest payment and regular record dates will
be those specified on the front cover page of this prospectus supplement.
 
   
                              PAYMENT AND DELIVERY
    
 
   
     Any payment or delivery on your note at maturity will be made to an account
designated by the Holder of your note and approved by us, or at the office of
the trustee in New York City, but only when the note is surrendered to the
trustee at that office. We may pay interest due on any interest payment
    
 
                                       S-7
<PAGE>   11
 
   
date by check mailed to the Holder on the regular record date. We also may make 
any payment or delivery in accordance with the applicable procedures of the 
depositary.
    
 
                            ANTIDILUTION ADJUSTMENTS
 
     The calculation agent will adjust the exchange rate as described below, but
only if an event described under one of the following six subsections occurs and
only if the relevant event occurs during the period described under the
applicable subsection.
 
     The adjustments described below do not cover all events that could affect
the exchange rate, such as an issuer tender or exchange offer for the index
stock at a premium to its market price or a tender or exchange offer made by a
third party for less than all outstanding shares of the index stock. We describe
the risks relating to dilution above under "Additional Risk Factors Specific to
Your Note -- You Have Limited Antidilution Protection".
 
  HOW ADJUSTMENTS WILL BE MADE
 
     In this prospectus supplement, we refer to antidilution adjustment of the
exchange rate. If an event requiring antidilution adjustment occurs, the
calculation agent will make the adjustment by taking the following steps:
 
- - STEP ONE.  The calculation agent will adjust the reference amount. This term
  refers to the amount of the index stock or other property for which the final
  index stock price is to be determined on the determination date. For example,
  if no adjustment is required, the final index stock price will be the closing
  price of one share of the index stock on the determination date. In that case,
  the reference amount will be one share of the index stock. We describe how the
  closing price will be determined below under "-- Special Calculation
  Provisions".
 
  If an adjustment is required because of one of the dilution events described
  in the first five subsections below -- these involve stock splits, reverse
  stock splits, stock dividends, other dividends and distributions and issuances
  of rights and warrants -- then the final index stock price might instead be,
  for example, the closing price, on the determination date, of two shares of
  the index stock or a half share of the index stock, depending on the event. In
  that example, the adjusted reference amount would be two shares of the index
  stock or one half share of the index stock, as applicable.
 
  If an adjustment is required because of one of the reorganization events
  described in "-- Reorganization Events" below -- these involve events in which
  cash, securities or other property is distributed in respect of the index
  stock -- then the final index stock price will be as follows, assuming there
  has been no prior antidilution adjustment: the value, on the determination
  date, of the property distributed in the reorganization event in respect of
  one share of the index stock, plus one share of the index stock if the index
  stock remains outstanding. In that case, the adjusted reference amount will be
  the property so distributed plus one share of the index stock, if applicable.
  In addition, on the stated maturity date, your note will be exchangeable for
  the kind or kinds of property comprising the adjusted reference amount, or the
  cash value of that property, as described in more detail below under
  "-- Reorganization Events".
 
  The manner in which the calculation agent adjusts the reference amount in step
  one will depend on the type of dilution event requiring adjustment. These
  events and the nature of the required adjustments are described in the six
  subsections that follow.
 
- - STEP TWO.  Having adjusted the reference amount in step one, the calculation
  agent will determine the final index stock price, which will be the closing
  price of the adjusted reference amount on the determination date. If a
  reorganization event occurs, the final index stock price will be the value of
  the adjusted reference amount as determined by the calculation agent in the
  manner described below under "-- Reorganization Events".
 
- - STEP THREE.  Having determined the final index stock price in step two, the
  calculation agent will use this price to calculate the threshold fraction and
  will use this fraction to calculate the exchange rate.
                                       S-8
<PAGE>   12
 
- - STEP FOUR.  Having calculated the exchange rate in step three, the calculation
  agent will multiply this rate by the reference amount as adjusted in step one.
  The resulting rate will be the number of shares of the index stock that will
  be exchangeable on the stated maturity date for each $       [initial index
  stock price] of the outstanding face amount of your note.
 
- - STEP FIVE.  If we elect to deliver cash to the Holder on the stated maturity
  date, the amount we deliver will equal the cash value of the index stock that
  we would otherwise deliver, based on the adjusted rate calculated in step
  four. The calculation agent will determine the cash value of that stock by
  multiplying the number of shares involved by the closing price for one share
  on the determination date, rather than by the final index stock price, which
  will be the closing price for the adjusted reference amount. If your note
  would be exchangeable for property other than the index stock because of a
  reorganization event, then the calculation agent will determine the cash value
  of that property in the manner described below under "-- Reorganization
  Events".
 
   
     If more than one event requiring adjustment occurs, the calculation agent
will first adjust the reference amount as described in step one above for each
event, sequentially, in the order in which the events occur, and on a cumulative
basis. Thus, having adjusted the reference amount for the first event, the
calculation agent will repeat step one for the second event, applying the
required adjustment to the reference amount as already adjusted for the first
event, and so on for each event. Having adjusted the reference amount for all
events, the calculation agent will then take the remaining applicable steps in
the process described above, determining the final index stock price, the
threshold fraction and the adjusted exchange rate using the reference amount as
sequentially and cumulatively adjusted for all the relevant events. The
calculation agent will make all required determinations and adjustments no later
than the determination date.
    
 
   
     The calculation agent will adjust the exchange rate for each reorganization
event described in the sixth subsection below. For any other event, however, the
calculation agent will not have to adjust the exchange rate unless the
adjustment would result in a change of at least 0.1% in the exchange rate that
would apply without the adjustment, provided that the adjustment is carried
forward and taken into account in determining whether any further adjustment is
necessary. The exchange rate resulting from any adjustment will be rounded up or
down, as appropriate, to the nearest one thousandth, with five ten-thousandths
being rounded upward -- e.g., 0.1234 will be rounded down to 0.123 and 0.1235
will be rounded up to 0.124.
    
 
     If an event requiring antidilution adjustment occurs, the calculation agent
will make the adjustment with a view to offsetting, to the extent practical, any
change in the economic position of the Holder and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.,
relative to the note, that results solely from that event. The calculation agent
may, in its sole discretion, modify the antidilution adjustments as necessary to
ensure an equitable result.
 
     The calculation agent will make all determinations with respect to
antidilution adjustments, including any determination as to whether an event
requiring adjustment has occurred, as to the nature of the adjustment required
and how it will be made or as to the value of any property distributed in a
reorganization event, and will do so in its sole discretion. In the absence of
manifest error, those determinations will be conclusive for all purposes and
will be binding on you and us, without any liability on the part of the
calculation agent. The calculation agent will provide information about the
adjustments it makes upon written request by the Holder.
 
     In this prospectus supplement, when we say that the calculation agent will
adjust the exchange rate for one or more dilution events, we mean that the
calculation agent will take all the applicable steps described above with
respect to those events.
 
                                       S-9
<PAGE>   13
 
 Regardless of the antidilution adjustments that may apply to your note, the
 cash or index stock you receive on the stated maturity date, valued as of the
 determination date, will not under any circumstances exceed the threshold
 appreciation price for each $          [initial index stock price] of the
 outstanding face amount of your note.
 
     The following six subsections describe the dilution events for which the
exchange rate is to be adjusted. Each subsection describes the manner in which
the calculation agent will adjust the reference amount -- the first step in the
adjustment process described above -- for the relevant event.
 
  STOCK SPLITS
 
     A stock split is an increase in the number of a corporation's outstanding
shares of stock without any change in its stockholders' equity. Each outstanding
share will be worth less as a result of a stock split.
 
     If the index stock is subject to a stock split, then at the opening of
business on the first day on which the index stock trades without the right to
receive the stock split, the calculation agent will adjust the reference amount
to equal the sum of the prior reference amount -- i.e., the reference amount
before that adjustment -- plus the product of (1) the number of new shares
issued in the stock split with respect to one share of the index stock and (2)
the prior reference amount. The reference amount -- and thus the exchange
rate -- will not be adjusted, however, unless that first day occurs on or after
the date of this prospectus supplement and on or before the determination date.
 
  REVERSE STOCK SPLITS
 
     A reverse stock split is a decrease in the number of a corporation's
outstanding shares of stock without any change in its stockholders' equity. Each
outstanding share will be worth more as a result of a reverse stock split.
 
     If the index stock is subject to a reverse stock split, then once the
reverse stock split becomes effective, the calculation agent will adjust the
reference amount to equal the product of the prior reference amount and the
quotient of (1) the number of outstanding shares of the index stock resulting
from the reverse stock split divided by (2) the number of shares of the index
stock outstanding immediately before the reverse stock split becomes effective.
The reference amount -- and thus the exchange rate -- will not be adjusted,
however, unless the reverse stock split becomes effective on or after the date
of this prospectus supplement and on or before the determination date.
 
  STOCK DIVIDENDS
 
     In a stock dividend, a corporation issues additional shares of its stock to
all holders of its outstanding stock in proportion to the shares they own. Each
outstanding share will be worth less as a result of a stock dividend.
 
     If the index stock is subject to a stock dividend, then at the opening of
business on the ex-dividend date, the calculation agent will adjust the
reference amount to equal the prior reference amount plus the product of (1) the
number of shares issued in the stock dividend with respect to one share of the
index stock and (2) the prior reference amount. The reference amount -- and thus
the exchange rate -- will not be adjusted, however, unless the ex-dividend date
occurs on or after the date of this prospectus supplement and on or before the
determination date.
 
     The ex-dividend date for any dividend or other distribution is the first
day on which the index stock trades without the right to receive that dividend
or other distribution.
 
  OTHER DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS
 
     The reference amount will not be adjusted to reflect dividends or other
distributions paid with respect to the index stock, other than:
 
- - stock dividends described above,
 
- - distributions that are spin-off events described in "-- Reorganization Events"
  below,
 
- - issuances of rights and warrants as described in "-- Rights and Warrants"
  below, and
 
- - extraordinary dividends described below.
 
                                      S-10
<PAGE>   14
 
   
     A dividend or other distribution with respect to the index stock will be
deemed to be an extraordinary dividend if its per share value exceeds that of
the immediately preceding non-extraordinary dividend, if any, for the index
stock by an amount equal to at least 10% of the closing price of the index stock
on the first business day before the ex-dividend date.
    
 
     If an extraordinary dividend occurs, the calculation agent will adjust the
reference amount at the opening of business on the ex-dividend date to equal the
product of (1) the prior reference amount and (2) a fraction, the numerator of
which is the closing price of the index stock on the business day before the
ex-dividend date and the denominator of which is the amount by which that
closing price exceeds the extraordinary dividend amount. The reference
amount -- and thus the exchange rate -- will not be adjusted, however, unless
the ex-dividend date occurs on or after the date of this prospectus supplement
and on or before the determination date.
 
     The extraordinary dividend amount with respect to an extraordinary dividend
for the index stock equals:
 
- - for an extraordinary dividend that is paid in lieu of a regular quarterly
  dividend, the amount of the extraordinary dividend per share of the index
  stock minus the amount per share of the immediately preceding dividend, if
  any, that was not an extraordinary dividend for the index stock, or
 
- - for an extraordinary dividend that is not paid in lieu of a regular quarterly
  dividend, the amount per share of the extraordinary dividend.
 
     To the extent an extraordinary dividend is not paid in cash, the value of
the non-cash component will be determined by the calculation agent. A
distribution on the index stock that is a spin-off event described below under
"-- Reorganization Events" and also an extraordinary dividend will result in an
adjustment to the exchange rate only as described in "-- Reorganization Events"
and not as described here.
 
  RIGHTS AND WARRANTS
 
   
     If the index stock issuer issues rights or warrants to all holders of the
index stock to subscribe for or purchase index stock at an exercise price per
share that is less than the closing price of the index stock on the record date
for determining the holders of the index stock entitled to receive such rights
and warrants, then the reference amount will be adjusted by multiplying that
rate by the following fraction:
    
 
- - the numerator will be the number of shares of the index stock outstanding at
  the close of business on that record date, plus the number of additional
  shares of the index stock offered for subscription or purchase under those
  rights or warrants, and
 
- - the denominator will be the number of shares of the index stock outstanding at
  the close of business on that record date, plus the number of additional
  shares of the index stock that the aggregate offering price of the total
  number of shares of the index stock so offered for subscription or purchase
  would purchase at the closing price of the index stock on that record date,
  with that number of additional shares being determined by multiplying the
  total number of shares so offered by the exercise price of those rights or
  warrants and dividing the resulting product by the closing price on the record
  date.
 
The reference amount -- and thus the exchange rate -- will not be adjusted,
however, unless the record date described above occurs on or after the date of
this prospectus supplement and before the determination date.
 
  REORGANIZATION EVENTS
 
     Each of the following is a reorganization event:
 
- - the index stock is reclassified or changed,
 
- - the index stock issuer has been subject to a merger, consolidation or other
  combination and either is not the surviving entity or is the surviving entity
  but all the outstanding index stock is exchanged for or converted into other
  property,
 
                                      S-11
<PAGE>   15
 
- - a statutory share exchange involving the outstanding index stock and the
  securities of another entity occurs, other than as part of an event described
  above,
 
- - the index stock issuer sells or otherwise transfers its property and assets as
  an entirety or substantially as an entirety to another entity,
 
- - the index stock issuer effects a spin-off -- that is, issues to all holders of
  the index stock equity securities of another issuer, other than as part of an
  event described above,
 
- - the index stock issuer is liquidated, dissolved or wound up or is subject to a
  proceeding under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law,
  or
 
- - another entity completes a tender or exchange offer for all the outstanding
  index stock.
 
     ADJUSTMENTS FOR REORGANIZATION EVENTS. If a reorganization event occurs,
then the calculation agent will adjust the reference amount so that it consists
of each type of exchange property distributed in respect of one share of the
index stock -- or in respect of whatever the prior reference amount may be -- in
the reorganization event, taken together. We define the term "exchange property"
below. For purposes of the five-step adjustment process described above under
"-- How Adjustments Will Be Made", the exchange property so distributed will be
the adjusted reference amount described in step one, the value of that property
on the determination date will be the final index stock price described in step
two and the calculation agent will determine and adjust the exchange rate based
on these items as described in steps three and four.
 
     Consequently, if a reorganization event occurs, the note will be
exchangeable on the stated maturity date as follows:
 
- - If we do not elect to exchange the note for cash, we will deliver to the
  Holder, for each $       [initial index stock price] of the outstanding face
  amount, each type of exchange property distributed in the reorganization event
  in respect of the prior reference amount.
 
- - If we elect to exchange the note for cash, we will pay the Holder, for every
  $       [initial index stock price] of the outstanding face amount, cash in an
  amount equal to the value of each type of exchange property distributed in the
  reorganization event in respect of the prior reference amount.
 
     The calculation agent will determine the value of each type of exchange
property, in its sole discretion. For any exchange property consisting of
securities, the calculation agent will use the closing price for each security
on the determination date. If more than one type of exchange property is
involved, the exchange rate will be adjusted so that the note is exchangeable
for each type, or for the cash value of each type, in the same proportion as the
value of each type bears to the total value of the exchange property distributed
in respect of the prior reference amount. If a holder of the index stock may
elect to receive different types or combinations of types of exchange property
in the reorganization event, the exchange property will be deemed to include the
types and amounts of each type distributed to a holder that makes no election.
 
     If a reorganization event occurs, the reference amount will be adjusted to
consist of the exchange property distributed in the event, as described above.
The calculation agent will make further antidilution adjustments for later
events that affect the exchange property or any component of that property, to
the same extent that it would make adjustments if the index stock were
outstanding and were affected by the same kinds of events. For example, if the
index stock issuer merges into another company and each share of the index stock
is converted into the right to receive two common shares of the surviving
company and a specified amount of cash, the reference amount will be adjusted to
consist of two common shares and the specified amount of cash. The calculation
agent will adjust the common share component of the reference amount to reflect
any later stock split or other event that affects the common shares of the
surviving company, to the extent described in this and the prior five
subsections as if the common
 
                                      S-12
<PAGE>   16
 
shares were the index stock. In that event, the cash component will not be
adjusted but will continue to be a component of the reference amount. The final
index stock price used to calculate the adjusted exchange rate will be the total
value, as determined by the calculation agent on the determination date, of all
components of the reference amount, with each component adjusted on a sequential
and cumulative basis for all relevant events affecting it.
 
     The calculation agent will not make any adjustment for a reorganization
event, however, unless the event becomes effective -- or, if the event is a
spin-off, unless the ex-dividend date for the spin-off occurs -- on or after the
date of this prospectus supplement and on or before the determination date.
 
     EXCHANGE PROPERTY.  When we refer to exchange property, we mean the cash,
securities and other property or assets distributed in a reorganization event in
respect of one outstanding share of the index stock -- or in respect of whatever
the applicable reference amount may then be. In the case of a spin-off, the
exchange property also includes one share of the index stock -- or other
applicable reference amount -- in respect of which the distribution is made.
 
     If a reorganization event occurs, the exchange property distributed in the
event will be substituted for the index stock as described above. Consequently,
in this prospectus supplement, as applicable, when we refer to the index stock,
we mean any exchange property that may be distributed in respect of the index
stock and, when we refer to the index stock issuer, we mean any successor entity
in a reorganization event.
 
                         DEFAULT AMOUNT ON ACCELERATION
 
     If an event of default occurs and the maturity of your note is accelerated,
we will pay the default amount in respect of the principal of your note at the
maturity. We describe the default amount below under "-- Special Calculation
Provisions".
 
     For the purpose of determining whether the Holders of our Series B
medium-term notes, of which your note is one, are entitled to take any action
under the indenture, we will treat the outstanding face amount of your note as
the outstanding principal amount of your note. Although the terms of your note
differ from those of the other Series B medium-term notes. Holders of specified
percentages in principal amount of all Series B medium-term notes, together in
some cases with other series of our debt securities, will be able to take action
affecting all the Series B medium-term notes, including your note. This action
may involve changing some of the terms that apply to the Series B medium-term
notes, accelerating the maturity of the Series B medium-term notes after a
default or waiving some of our obligations under the indenture. We discuss these
matters in the attached prospectus under "Description of Notes We May Offer --
Default, Remedies and Waiver of Default" and "-- Modification and Waiver of
Covenants".
 
                             MODIFIED BUSINESS DAY
 
     As described in the attached prospectus, any payment on your note that
would otherwise be due on a day that is not a business day may instead be paid
on the next day that is a business day, with the same effect as if paid on the
original due date. The same will apply to any delivery of the index stock that
would otherwise be due on a day that is not a business day. For your note,
however, the term business day has a different meaning than it does for other
Series B medium-term notes. We discuss this term under "-- Special Calculation
Provisions" below.
 
                           ROLE OF CALCULATION AGENT
 
   
     The calculation agent will make all determinations regarding the exchange
rate, antidilution adjustments, market disruption events, the final stock index
price, the default amount and the amount of the index stock, cash or exchange
property to be delivered in exchange for your note. Absent manifest error, all
determinations of the calculation agent will be final and binding on you and us,
without any liability on the part of the calculation agent.
    
 
                                      S-13
<PAGE>   17
 
     Please note that the firm named as the calculation agent in this prospectus
supplement is the firm serving in that role as of the original issue date of
your note. We may change the calculation agent after the original issue date
without notice.
 
                         SPECIAL CALCULATION PROVISIONS
 
BUSINESS DAY
 
     When we refer to a business day with respect to your note, we mean a day
that is a business day of the kind described in the attached prospectus but that
is not a day on which the principal securities exchange for the index stock is
authorized by law or executive order to close.
 
CLOSING PRICE
 
     The closing price for any security on any day will equal the closing sale
price or last reported sale price, regular way, for the security, on a per-share
or other unit basis:
 
- - on the principal national securities exchange on which that security is listed
  for trading on that day, or
 
- - if that security is not listed on any national securities exchange, on the
  Nasdaq National Market System on that day, or
 
- - if that security is not quoted in the Nasdaq National Market System on that
  day, on any other U.S. national market system that is the primary market for
  the trading of that security.
 
If that security is not listed or traded as described above, then the closing
price for that security on any day will be the average, as determined by the
calculation agent, of the bid prices for the security obtained from as many
dealers in that security selected by the calculation agent as will make those
bid prices available to the calculation agent. The number of dealers need not
exceed three and may include the calculation agent or any of its or our
affiliates.
 
DEFAULT AMOUNT
 
     The default amount for your note on any day will be an amount, in the
specified currency for the principal of your note, equal to the cost of having a
qualified financial institution, of the kind and selected as described below,
expressly assume all our payment and other obligations with respect to your note
as of that day and as if no default or acceleration had occurred, or to
undertake other obligations providing substantially equivalent economic value to
you with respect to your note. That cost will equal:
 
- - the lowest amount that a qualified financial institution would charge to
  effect this assumption or undertaking, plus
 
- - the reasonable expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by the
  Holder of your note in preparing any documentation necessary for this
  assumption or undertaking.
 
During the default quotation period for your note, which we describe below, the
Holder and/or we may request a qualified financial institution to provide a
quotation of the amount it would charge to effect this assumption or
undertaking. If either party obtains a quotation, it must notify the other party
in writing of the quotation. The amount referred to in the first bullet point
above will equal the lowest -- or, if there is only one, the only -- quotation
obtained, and as to which notice is so given, during the default quotation
period. With respect to any quotation, however, the party not obtaining the
quotation may object, on reasonable and significant grounds, to the assumption
or undertaking by the qualified financial institution providing the quotation
and notify the other party in writing of those grounds within two business days
after the last day of the default quotation period, in which case that quotation
will be disregarded in determining the default amount.
 
     DEFAULT QUOTATION PERIOD.  The default quotation period is the period
beginning on the day the default amount first becomes due and ending on the
third business day after that day, unless:
 
- - no quotation of the kind referred to above is obtained or
 
- - every quotation of that kind obtained is objected to within five business days
  after the due day as described above.
 
                                      S-14
<PAGE>   18
 
If either of these two events occurs, the default quotation period will continue
until the third business day after the first business day on which prompt notice
of a quotation is given as provided as described above. If that quotation is
objected to as described above within five business days after that first
business day, however, the default quotation period will continue as described
in this sentence.
 
     In any event, if the default quotation period and the subsequent two
business day objection period have not ended before the determination date, then
the default amount will equal the principal amount of your note.
 
     QUALIFIED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.  For the purpose of determining the
default amount at any time, a qualified financial institution must be a
financial institution organized under the laws of any jurisdiction in the United
States of America, Europe or Japan, which at that time has outstanding debt
obligations with a stated maturity of one year or less from the date of issue
and rated either:
 
- - A-1 or higher by Standard & Poor's Ratings or any successor, or any other
  comparable rating then used by that rating agency, or
 
- - P-1 or higher by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor, or any
  other comparable rating then used by that rating agency.
 
MARKET DISRUPTION EVENT
 
     Any of the following will be a market disruption event:
 
- - a suspension, absence or material limitation of trading in the index stock on
  its primary market for more than two hours of trading or during the one-half
  hour before the close of trading in that market, as determined by the
  calculation agent in its sole discretion, or
 
- - a suspension, absence of trading or material limitation of trading in option
  contracts relating to the index stock, if available, in the primary market for
  those contracts during the one-half hour before the close of trading in that
  market, as determined by the calculation agent in its sole discretion, or
 
- - the index stock does not trade on what was the primary market for the index
  stock, as determined by the calculation agent in its sole discretion,
 
and, in any of these events, the calculation agent determines in its sole
discretion that the event materially interferes with the ability of The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. or any of its affiliates to unwind all or a material portion
of a hedge with respect to your note that we or our affiliates may effect as
described below under "Use of Proceeds and Hedging".
 
     The following events will not be market disruption events:
 
- - a limitation on the hours or numbers of days of trading, but only if the
  limitation results from an announced change in the regular business hours of
  the relevant market, and
 
- - a decision to permanently discontinue trading in the option contracts relating
  to the index stock.
 
     For this purpose, an "absence of trading" in the primary securities market
on which option contracts related to the index stock are traded will not include
any time when that market is itself closed for trading under ordinary
circumstances. In contrast, a suspension or limitation of trading in option
contracts related to the index stock, if available, in the primary market for
those contracts, by reason of:
 
- - a price change exceeding limits set by that market, or
 
- - an imbalance of orders relating to those contracts, or
 
- - a disparity in bid and ask quotes relating to those contracts
 
will constitute a suspension or material limitation of trading in option
contracts related to the index stock in the primary market for those contracts.
 
     In this section about market disruption events, references to the index
stock include securities that are part of any exchange property, as determined
by the calculation agent in its sole discretion.
 
                                      S-15
<PAGE>   19
 
                          USE OF PROCEEDS AND HEDGING
 
     We will use the net proceeds we receive from the sale of your note for the
purposes we describe in the attached prospectus under "Use of Proceeds". We or
our affiliates may also use those proceeds in transactions intended to hedge our
obligations under your note as described below.
 
   
     In anticipation of the sale of your note, Goldman Sachs has entered into
hedging transactions involving purchases of the index stock prior to the date of
this prospectus supplement. From time to time, we may enter into additional
hedging transactions or unwind those we have entered into. In this regard, we
may:
    
 
- - acquire or dispose of the index stock or other securities of the index stock
  issuer,
 
- - take short positions in the index stock or other securities of the index stock
  issuer -- i.e., we may sell securities of the kind that we do not own or that
  we borrow for delivery to purchaser,
 
- - take or dispose of positions in listed or over-the-counter options or other
  instruments based on the index stock and/or
- - take or dispose of positions in listed or over-the-counter options or other
  instruments based on indices designed to track the performance of the NYSE or
  other components of the U.S. equity market.
 
Goldman Sachs may acquire a long or short position in securities similar to your
note from time to time and may, in its sole discretion, hold or resell those
securities.
 
     Goldman Sachs may close out its hedge on or before the determination date.
That step may involve sales of the index stock, listed or over-the-counter
options on the index stock or listed or over-the-counter options or other
instruments based on indices designed to track the performance of the NYSE or
other components of the U.S. equity market.
 
The hedging activity discussed above may adversely affect the market value of
your note from time to time. See "Additional Risk Factors Specific to Your
Note -- Trading and Other Transactions by Goldman Sachs in the Index Stock
May Impair the Value of Your Note" and "-- Our Business Activities May Create
Conflicts of Interest Between You and Us" for a discussion of these adverse
effects.
 
                                      S-16
<PAGE>   20
 
   
                               GATEWAY 2000, INC.
    
 
   
     According to publicly available documents, the index stock issuer, Gateway
2000, Inc., a Delaware corporation, is a direct marketer of personal computers
and related products and services. The stock index issuer develops,
manufactures, markets and supports a line of desktop and portable personal
computers, digital media personal computers, servers, workstations and personal
computer-related products used by individuals, families, businesses, government
agencies and educational institutions. The stock index issuer manages its
business activities primarily in two customer-focused segments: consumer and
business.
    
 
         WHERE INFORMATION ABOUT THE INDEX STOCK ISSUER CAN BE OBTAINED
 
     The index stock is registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Companies with securities registered under the Exchange Act are required to file
financial and other information specified by the SEC periodically. Information
filed with the SEC can be inspected and copied at the public reference
facilities maintained by the SEC at
 
- - Room 1024, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549,
 
- - Suite 1400, Citicorp Center, 500 West Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois 60661,
  and
 
- - Seven World Trade Center, 13th Floor, New York, New York 10048.
 
   
Copies of this material can also be obtained from the Public Reference Section
of the SEC, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.
In addition, information filed by the index stock issuer with the SEC
electronically can be reviewed through a web site maintained by the SEC. The
address of the SEC's web site is http://www.sec.gov. Information filed with the
SEC by the index stock issuer under the Exchange Act can be located by reference
to its SEC file number: 0-22784.
    
 
     Information about the index stock issuer may also be obtained from other
sources such as press releases, newspaper articles and other publicly
disseminated documents.
 
     We do not make any representation or warranty as to the accuracy or
completeness of any materials referred to above, including any filings made by
the index stock issuer with the SEC.
 
                     WE OBTAINED THE INFORMATION ABOUT THE
 INDEX STOCK ISSUER IN THIS PROSPECTUS SUPPLEMENT FROM THE INDEX STOCK ISSUER'S
                                 PUBLIC FILINGS
 
     This prospectus supplement relates only to your note and does not relate to
the index stock or other securities of the index stock issuer. We have derived
all information about the index stock issuer in this prospectus supplement from
the publicly available documents referred to in the preceding subsection. We
have not participated in the preparation of any of those documents or made any
"due diligence" investigation or any inquiry of the index stock issuer with
respect to the index stock issuer in connection with the offering of your note.
We do not make any representation that the publicly available documents or any
other publicly available information about the index stock issuer are accurate
or complete. Furthermore, we do not know whether all events occurring before the
date of this prospectus supplement -- including events that would affect the
accuracy or completeness of the publicly available documents referred to above,
the trading price of the index stock and, therefore, the exchange rate -- have
been publicly disclosed. Subsequent disclosure of any events of this kind or the
disclosure of or failure to disclose material future events concerning the index
stock issuer could affect the value you will receive at maturity and, therefore,
the market value of your note.
 
     Neither we nor any of our affiliates make any representation to you as to
the performance of the index stock.
 
     We or any of our affiliates may currently or from time to time engage in
business with the index stock issuer, including making loans to or equity
investments in the index stock issuer or providing advisory services to the
index stock issuer, including merger and
 
                                      S-17
<PAGE>   21
 
acquisition advisory services. In the course of
that business, we or any of our affiliates may acquire non-public information
about the index stock issuer and, in addition, one or more of our affiliates may
publish research reports about the index stock issuer. As an investor in the
note, you should undertake such independent investigation of the index stock
issuer as in your judgment is appropriate to make an informed decision with
respect to an investment in the note.
 
                             HISTORICAL INFORMATION
 
   
     The index stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
"GTW". The following table sets forth the quarterly high, low and closing prices
on the New York Stock Exchange for the index stock for the four calendar
quarters in each of 1996, 1997 and 1998, for the first calendar quarter in 1999
and for the second calendar quarter in 1999, through May 14, 1999. We obtained
the closing prices listed below from Bloomberg Financial Services, without
independent verification.
    
 
   
     You should not take the historical prices of the index stock as an
indication of future performance. We cannot give you any assurance that the
price of the index stock will increase sufficiently for you to receive an amount
in excess of, or even equal to, the face amount of your note at maturity. As
discussed above under "Additional Risk Factors Specific to Your Note", the
principal of your note is not protected.
    
 
   
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                HIGH      LOW     CLOSE
                                                                -----    -----    -----
<S>                                                             <C>      <C>      <C>
1996
  Quarter ended March 31....................................    15 3/4   9 1/4    13 15/16
  Quarter ended June 30.....................................    20 7/16  14 5/16  17
  Quarter ended September 30................................    24 23/32 14 1/2   23 15/16
  Quarter ended December 31.................................    32 1/16  22 7/16  26 25/32
1997
  Quarter ended March 31....................................    32 5/8   23 13/16 25 5/8
  Quarter ended June 30.....................................    37 3/8   26 3/16  32 1/2
  Quarter ended September 30................................    44 3/4   31 1/2   31 1/2
  Quarter ended December 31.................................    36 1/8   25 1/8   32 3/4
1998
  Quarter ended March 31....................................    48 1/4   32 1/2   46 3/4
  Quarter ended June 30.....................................    58 13/16 42 9/16  50
  Quarter ended September 30................................    67 1/8   46 7/16  52 5/16
  Quarter ended December 31.................................    61 5/8   41 1/2   51 3/16
1999
  Quarter ended March 31....................................    82 1/2   53 5/8   68 9/16
  Quarter ending June 30 (through May 14, 1999).............    76 11/16 59 1/2   67 5/8
  Closing price on May 14, 1999.............................                      66
</TABLE>
    
 
                                      S-18
<PAGE>   22
 
           SUPPLEMENTAL DISCUSSION OF FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSEQUENCES
 
   The following discussion supplements the discussion of U.S. federal income
   taxation in the attached prospectus with respect to United States holders.
 
   
   To the extent it reflects legal conclusions, the following section is the
   opinion of Sullivan & Cromwell, counsel to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
   In addition, it is the opinion of Sullivan & Cromwell that the
   characterization of the note for U.S. federal income tax purposes that
   will be required under the terms of the note, as discussed below, is a
   reasonable interpretation of current law. No statutory, judicial or
   administrative authority directly discusses how your note should be
   treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as a result, the U.S.
   federal income tax consequences of your investment in your note are highly
   uncertain. Because of the uncertainty, you should consult your tax advisor
   in determining the U.S. federal income tax and other tax consequences of
   your investment in the note, including the application of state, local or
   other tax laws and the possible effects of changes in federal or other tax
   laws.
    
 
     You will be obligated pursuant to the terms of the note -- in the absence
of an administrative determination or judicial ruling to the contrary -- to
characterize your note for all tax purposes as a forward contract to purchase
the index stock at the stated maturity date, under the terms of which contract:
 
(1) at the time of issuance of your note you deposit irrevocably with us a fixed
    amount of cash equal to the purchase price of your note to assure the
    fulfillment of your purchase obligation described in clause (3) below, which
    deposit will unconditionally and irrevocably be applied at the stated
    maturity date to satisfy that obligation,
 
(2) until the stated maturity date we will be obligated to pay interest on the
    deposit at a rate equal to the stated rate of interest on your note as
    compensation to you for our use of the cash deposit during the term of the
    note, and
 
(3) at the stated maturity date the cash deposit unconditionally and irrevocably
    will be applied by us in full satisfaction of your obligation under the
    forward purchase contract, and we will deliver to you the number of shares
    of the index stock -- or, at our option, an amount of cash equal to the
    value of the shares of the index stock -- that you are entitled to receive
    at that time pursuant to the terms of your note.
 
   
Although you will be obligated to treat the payment of the purchase price for
your note as a deposit for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the cash proceeds
that we receive from this offering will not be segregated by us during the term
of your note, but instead will be commingled with our other assets.
    
 
     Consistent with the above characterization, amounts paid to us in respect
of the original issue of your note will be treated as allocable in their
entirety to the amount of the cash deposit attributable to your note, and
amounts denominated as interest that are payable with respect to your note will
be characterized as interest payable on the amount of the deposit, includible
annually in your income in accordance with your method of accounting.
 
     If your note is characterized as described above, your tax basis in your
note generally would equal your cost for your note. Upon the sale or exchange of
your note, you would recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the
amount realized on the sale or exchange and your tax basis in your note. The
gain or loss generally will be long-term capital gain or loss, except to the
extent attributable to accrued but unpaid interest, if you hold the note for
more than one year. If we elect to deliver shares of the index stock at the
stated maturity date, you will not recognize gain or loss on the purchase of the
stock. You would have a tax basis in the index stock equal to your tax basis in
your
 
                                      S-19
<PAGE>   23
 
note, less the portion of the tax basis of your note allocable to any fractional
share, as described in the next sentence, and would have a holding period in the
index stock beginning on the date after the stated maturity date. You would
recognize short-term capital gain or loss with respect to cash received in lieu
of fractional shares, in an amount equal to the difference between the cash
received and the portion of the basis of your note allocable to fractional
shares. If we deliver cash at the stated maturity date, you will generally
recognize long-term capital gain or loss equal to the difference between the
amount of cash received and your tax basis in the note.
 
   
     There is no judicial or administrative authority discussing how your note
should be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, the Internal
Revenue Service might assert that treatment other than that described above is
more appropriate. For example, the Internal Revenue Service could treat your
note as a single debt instrument subject to special rules governing contingent
payment obligations. Under those rules, the amount of interest you are required
to take into account for each accrual period would be determined by constructing
a projected payment schedule for the note and applying rules similar to those
for accruing original issue discount on a hypothetical noncontingent debt
instrument with that projected payment schedule. This method is applied by first
determining the comparable yield -- i.e., the yield at which we would issue a
noncontingent fixed rate debt instrument with terms and conditions similar to
your note -- and then determining a payment schedule as of the issue date that
would produce the comparable yield. These rules may have the effect of requiring
you to include interest in income in respect of your note prior to your receipt
of cash attributable to that income.
    
 
     If the rules governing contingent payment obligations apply, you will
recognize gain or loss upon the sale or maturity of your note -- including if
you receive index stock at that time -- in an amount equal to the difference, if
any, between the fair market value of the amount you receive at that
time -- which, in the case of the index stock, will equal the fair market value
of the index stock at the stated maturity date -- and your adjusted basis in
your note. In general, your adjusted basis in your note will equal the amount
you paid for your note, increased by the amount of interest you previously
accrued with respect to your note, in accordance with the comparable yield and
the projected payment schedule for your note, and decreased by the amount of
interest payments you received with respect to your note. Your holding period in
any index stock you receive upon the maturity of your note will begin on the day
after the stated maturity date.
 
     If the rules governing contingent payment obligations apply, any gain you
recognize upon the sale or maturity of your note will be ordinary interest
income. Any loss you recognize at that time will be ordinary loss to the extent
of interest you included as income in the current or previous taxable years in
respect of your note, and thereafter, as capital loss.
 
     It is possible that the Internal Revenue Service could seek to characterize
your note in a manner that results in tax consequences to you different from
those described above. For example, the Internal Revenue Service could seek to
allocate less than all the amounts you paid for your note to the cash deposit
described above and treat the cash deposit as a debt instrument acquired at a
discount. In that case, you would be required to include such original issue
discount in income as it accrues in addition to stated interest on your note.
You should consult your tax advisors as to possible alternative
characterizations of your note for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
 
                                      S-20
<PAGE>   24
 
                    EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT
 
     If you are an insurance company or the fiduciary of a pension plan or an
employee benefit plan proposing to invest in the note being offered, you should
refer to the matters described under "Employee Retirement Income Security Act"
in the attached prospectus.
 
                                      S-21
<PAGE>   25
   
                       SUPPLEMENTAL PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. has agreed to sell to Goldman, Sachs & Co.,
as its agent, and Goldman, Sachs & Co. has agreed to purchase from The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc., the face amount of the note specified on the front cover of
this prospectus supplement. Goldman, Sachs & Co. intends to resell the note at
the original issue price. In the future, Goldman, Sachs & Co. or other
affiliates of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. may repurchase and resell the note
in market-making transactions, with resales being made at prices related to
prevailing market prices at the time of resale or at negotiated prices. For more
information about the plan of distribution and possible market-making
activities, see "Plan of Distribution" in the attached prospectus.
     
                                      S-22
<PAGE>   26
 
- -------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------
 
     No dealer, salesperson or other person is authorized to give any
information or to represent anything not contained in this prospectus. You must
not rely on any unauthorized information or representations. This prospectus is
an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities it
describes, but only under circumstances and in jurisdictions where it is lawful
to do so. The information contained in this prospectus is current only as of its
date.
 
                               ------------------
 
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
   
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             Page
                                             ----
<S>                                          <C>
           Prospectus Supplement
Additional Risk Factors Specific to Your
  Note.....................................   S-2
Specific Terms of Your Note................   S-6
Use of Proceeds and Hedging................  S-16
Gateway 2000, Inc..........................  S-17
Supplemental Discussion of Federal Income
  Tax Consequences.........................  S-19
Employee Retirement Income Security Act....  S-21
Supplemental Plan of Distribution..........  S-22
                Prospectus
Our Business Principles....................     2
Prospectus Summary.........................     3
Risk Factors...............................    11
Use of Proceeds............................    28
Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
  Information..............................    29
Capitalization.............................    36
Selected Consolidated Financial Data.......    38
Management's Discussion And Analysis of
  Financial Condition And Results of
  Operations...............................    40
Industry and Economic Outlook..............    65
Business...................................    68
Management.................................    93
Principal Shareholders.....................   106
Certain Relationships and Related
  Transactions.............................   108
Description of Notes We May Offer..........   113
United States Taxation.....................   143
Employee Retirement Income Security Act....   154
Validity of the Notes......................   154
Experts....................................   154
Available Information......................   155
Index to Consolidated Financial
  Statements...............................   F-1
Plan of Distribution.......................   U-1
</TABLE>
    
 
                               ------------------
     Through and including                , 1999 (the 40th day after the date of
the attached prospectus), all dealers effecting transactions in these
securities, whether or not participating in this offering, may be required to
deliver a prospectus. This is in addition to the dealers' obligation to deliver
a prospectus when acting as underwriters and with respect to their unsold
allotments or subscriptions.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------
 
   
                                   $4,000,000
    
 
                               THE GOLDMAN SACHS
                                  GROUP, INC.
 
   
                        % Mandatory Exchangeable Note due 2002
    
   
  (Subject to Mandatory Exchange into Shares of Common Stock of Gateway 2000,
                                     Inc.)
    
                               ------------------
 
                              [GOLDMAN SACHS LOGO]
 
                               ------------------
                              GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
            -------------------------------------------------------
            -------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>   27
   
The information in this preliminary prospectus is not complete and may be
changed. These securities may not be sold until the registration statement filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission is effective. This preliminary
prospectus is not an offer to sell nor does it seek an offer to buy these
securities in any jurisdiction where the offer or sale is not permitted.
     
   
                   Subject to Completion. Dated May 17, 1999.
    
 
                                $15,000,000,000
                         THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
 
                          Medium-Term Notes, Series B
 
[GOLDMAN SACHS LOGO]
                            ------------------------
 
                                 TERMS OF SALE
 
     The following terms may apply to the notes that The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. may sell at one or more times. The final terms of each note will be
included in a prospectus supplement. Goldman Sachs will receive between
$14,977,500,000 and $14,865,000,000 of the proceeds from the sale of the notes,
after paying the agents' commissions of between $22,500,000 and $135,000,000.
 
     - stated maturity of 12 months or longer
 
     - fixed or floating interest rate, zero-coupon or issued with original
       issue discount; a floating interest rate may be based on:
 
          - commercial paper rate
 
          - prime rate
 
          - LIBOR
 
          - EURIBOR
 
          - treasury rate
 
          - CMT rate
 
          - CD rate
 
          - federal funds rate
 
          - eleventh district cost of funds rate
 
     - amount of principal or interest may be determined by reference to an
       index or formula
 
     - may be book-entry form only
 
     - may be subject to redemption at the option of Goldman Sachs or repayment
       at the option of the holder
 
     - not amortized or subject to a sinking fund
 
     - interest on fixed rate notes paid semi-annually
 
     - interest on floating rate notes paid monthly, quarterly, semi-annually or
       annually
 
     - denominations of $1,000 and multiples of $1,000
 
     - may be denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars or in a
       composite currency
 
     - settlement in immediately available funds
 
     Goldman Sachs does not plan to list the notes for trading on a securities
exchange.
 
   
     See "Risk Factors" beginning on page 11 to read about factors you should
consider before investing in any notes.
    
                            ------------------------
 
     NEITHER THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION NOR ANY OTHER REGULATORY
BODY HAS APPROVED OR DISAPPROVED OF THESE SECURITIES OR PASSED UPON THE ADEQUACY
OR ACCURACY OF THIS PROSPECTUS. ANY REPRESENTATION TO THE CONTRARY IS A CRIMINAL
OFFENSE.
                            ------------------------
 
     Goldman Sachs may sell the notes directly or through one or more agents or
dealers, including the agent listed below. The agents are not required to sell
any particular amount of the notes.
 
     Goldman Sachs may use this prospectus in the initial sale of any note. In
addition, Goldman, Sachs & Co. or any other affiliate of Goldman Sachs may use
this prospectus in a market-making transaction in any note after its initial
sale. UNLESS GOLDMAN SACHS OR ITS AGENT INFORMS THE PURCHASER OTHERWISE IN THE
CONFIRMATION OF SALE, THIS PROSPECTUS IS BEING USED IN A MARKET-MAKING
TRANSACTION.
                              GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
                            ------------------------
 
                    Prospectus dated                , 1999.
<PAGE>   28
 
                            OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
 
1.  Our clients' interests always come first. Our experience shows that if we
serve our clients well, our own success will follow.
 
2.  Our assets are our people, capital and reputation. If any of these is ever
diminished, the last is the most difficult to restore. We are dedicated to
complying fully with the letter and spirit of the laws, rules and ethical
principles that govern us. Our continued success depends upon unswerving
adherence to this standard.
 
3.  Our goal is to provide superior returns to our shareholders. Profitability
is critical to achieving superior returns, building our capital and attracting
and keeping our best people. Significant employee stock ownership aligns the
interests of our employees and our shareholders.
 
4.  We take great pride in the professional quality of our work. We have an
uncompromising determination to achieve excellence in everything we undertake.
Though we may be involved in a wide variety and heavy volume of activity, we
would, if it came to a choice, rather be best than biggest.
 
5.  We stress creativity and imagination in everything we do. While recognizing
that the old way may still be the best way, we constantly strive to find a
better solution to a client's problems. We pride ourselves on having pioneered
many of the practices and techniques that have become standard in the industry.
 
6.  We make an unusual effort to identify and recruit the very best person for
every job. Although our activities are measured in billions of dollars, we
select our people one by one. In a service business, we know that without the
best people, we cannot be the best firm.
 
7.  We offer our people the opportunity to move ahead more rapidly than is
possible at most other places. We have yet to find the limits to the
responsibility that our best people are able to assume. Advancement depends
solely on ability, performance and contribution to the Firm's success, without
regard to race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, disability, sexual
orientation, or any other impermissible criterion or circumstance.
 
8.  We stress teamwork in everything we do. While individual creativity is
always encouraged, we have found that team effort often produces the best
results. We have no room for those who put their personal interests ahead of the
interests of the Firm and its clients.
 
9.  The dedication of our people to the Firm and the intense effort they give
their jobs are greater than one finds in most other organizations. We think that
this is an important part of our success.
 
10.  We consider our size an asset that we try hard to preserve. We want to be
big enough to undertake the largest project that any of our clients could
contemplate, yet small enough to maintain the loyalty, the intimacy and the
esprit de corps that we all treasure and that contribute greatly to our success.
 
11.  We constantly strive to anticipate the rapidly changing needs of our
clients and to develop new services to meet those needs. We know that the world
of finance will not stand still and that complacency can lead to extinction.
 
12.  We regularly receive confidential information as part of our normal client
relationships. To breach a confidence or to use confidential information
improperly or carelessly would be unthinkable.
 
13.  Our business is highly competitive, and we aggressively seek to expand our
client relationships. However, we must always be fair competitors and must never
denigrate other firms.
 
14.  Integrity and honesty are at the heart of our business. We expect our
people to maintain high ethical standards in everything they do, both in their
work for the Firm and in their personal lives.
 
                                        2
<PAGE>   29
 
                               PROSPECTUS SUMMARY
 
     This summary highlights information contained elsewhere in this prospectus.
This summary does not contain all of the information that you should consider
before investing in the notes. You should read the entire prospectus carefully,
especially the risks of investing in the notes discussed under "Risk Factors" on
pages 11-27.
 
                         THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
 
     Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking and securities firm
with three principal business lines:
 
     - Investment Banking;
     - Trading and Principal Investments; and
     - Asset Management and Securities Services.
 
Our goal is to be the advisor of choice for our clients and a leading
participant in global financial markets. We provide services worldwide to a
substantial and diversified client base, which includes corporations, financial
institutions, governments and high net worth individuals.
 
     For our fiscal year ended November 27, 1998, our net revenues were $8.5
billion and our pre-tax earnings were $2.9 billion, and for our fiscal quarter
ended February 26, 1999, our net revenues were $3.0 billion and our pre-tax
earnings were $1.2 billion. As of February 26, 1999, our total assets were
$230.6 billion and our partners' capital was $6.6 billion.
 
     We have over time produced strong earnings growth and attractive returns on
partners' capital through different economic and market conditions. Over the
last 15 years, our pre-tax earnings have grown from $462 million in 1983 to $2.9
billion in 1998, representing a compound annual growth rate of 13%. Economic and
market conditions can, however, significantly affect our performance. For
example, in the second half of fiscal 1998, our performance was adversely
affected by turbulence in global financial markets.
 
     We have achieved this growth, which has been generated without the benefit
of a large acquisition, by maintaining an intense commitment to our clients,
focusing on our core businesses and key opportunities, and operating as an
integrated franchise.
 
     Because we believe that the needs of our clients are global and that
international markets have high growth potential, we have built upon our
strength in the United States to achieve leading positions in other parts of the
world. Today, we have a strong global presence as evidenced by the geographic
breadth of our transactions, leadership in our core products and the size of our
international operations. As of February 26, 1999, we operated offices in 23
countries and 36% of our 13,000 employees were based outside the United States.
 
     We are committed to a distinctive culture and set of core values. These
values are reflected in our Business Principles, which emphasize placing our
clients' interests first, integrity, commitment to excellence and innovation,
and teamwork.
 
                                        3
<PAGE>   30
 
                             SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
                                ($ in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  AS OF OR FOR
                                                       AS OF OR FOR               THREE MONTHS
                                                   YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER           ENDED FEBRUARY
                                              ------------------------------   ------------------
                                                1996       1997       1998      1998       1999
                                                ----       ----       ----      ----       ----
<S>                                           <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>       <C>
Net revenues:
  Investment Banking........................  $  2,113   $  2,587   $  3,368   $   633   $    902
  Trading and Principal Investments.........     2,693      2,926      2,379     1,182      1,357
  Asset Management and Securities
     Services...............................     1,323      1,934      2,773       657        736
                                              --------   --------   --------   -------   --------
Total net revenues..........................  $  6,129   $  7,447   $  8,520   $ 2,472   $  2,995
                                              ========   ========   ========   =======   ========
Pre-tax earnings(1).........................  $  2,606   $  3,014   $  2,921   $ 1,022   $  1,188
Total assets................................   152,046    178,401    217,380        --    230,624
Partners' capital...........................     5,309      6,107      6,310        --      6,612
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(1)(2)....      1.23x      1.23x      1.21x     1.30x      1.41x
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
Read the table above in conjunction with the footnotes to "Selected Consolidated
Financial Data" as well as the following footnotes:
(1) Since we historically operated in partnership form, payments to our profit
    participating limited partners were accounted for as distributions of
    partners' capital rather than as compensation expense. As a result, our
    pre-tax earnings and compensation and benefits expense have not reflected
    any payments for services rendered by our managing directors who were profit
    participating limited partners. Accordingly, our historical pre-tax earnings
    understate the expected operating costs to be incurred by us after our
    conversion to corporate form. As a corporation, we will include payments for
    services rendered by our managing directors who were profit participating
    limited partners in compensation and benefits expense. For financial
    information that reflects pro forma compensation and benefits expense as if
    we had been a corporation, see "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
    Information".
(2) For purposes of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, "earnings" represent
    pre-tax earnings plus fixed charges and "fixed charges" represent interest
    expense plus that portion of rent expense that, in our opinion, approximates
    the interest factor included in rent expense. For a pro forma ratio of
    earnings to fixed charges reflecting our conversion to corporate form,
    please see "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information". The ratio of
    earnings to fixed charges does not give effect to this offering of notes or
    to our underwritten debt offerings described below.
 
                            ----------------------------
 
                     STRATEGY AND PRINCIPAL BUSINESS LINES
 
     Our strategy is to grow our three core businesses -- Investment Banking,
Trading and Principal Investments, and Asset Management and Securities
Services -- in markets throughout the world. Our leadership position in
investment banking provides us with access to governments, financial
institutions and corporate clients globally. Trading and principal investing has
been an important part of our culture and earnings, and we remain committed to
these businesses irrespective of their volatility. Managing wealth is one of the
fastest growing segments of the financial services industry and we are
positioning our asset management and securities services businesses to take
advantage of that growth.
 
INVESTMENT BANKING
 
     Investment Banking represented 39% of fiscal 1998 net revenues and 35% of
fiscal 1997 net revenues. We are a market leader in both the financial advisory
and underwriting businesses, serving over 3,000 clients worldwide. For the
period January 1, 1994 to December 31, 1998, we had the industry-leading market
share of 25.3% in worldwide
                                        4
<PAGE>   31
 
mergers and acquisitions advisory services, having advised on over $1.7 trillion
of transactions. Over the same period, we also achieved number one market shares
of 15.2% in underwriting worldwide initial public offerings and 14.4% in
underwriting worldwide common stock issues. The source for this market share
information is Securities Data Company.
 
TRADING AND PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS
 
     Trading and Principal Investments represented 28% of fiscal 1998 net
revenues and 39% of fiscal 1997 net revenues. We make markets in equity and
fixed income products, currencies and commodities; enter into swaps and other
derivative transactions; engage in proprietary trading and arbitrage; and make
principal investments. In trading, we focus on building lasting relationships
with our most active clients while maintaining leadership positions in our key
markets. We believe our research, market-making and proprietary activities
enhance our understanding of markets and ability to serve our clients.
 
ASSET MANAGEMENT AND SECURITIES SERVICES
 
     Asset Management and Securities Services represented 33% of fiscal 1998 net
revenues and 26% of fiscal 1997 net revenues. We provide global investment
management and advisory services; earn commissions on agency transactions;
manage merchant banking funds; and provide prime brokerage, securities lending
and financing services. Our asset management business has grown rapidly, with
assets under supervision increasing from $92.7 billion as of November 25, 1994
to $369.7 billion as of February 26, 1999, representing a compound annual growth
rate of 38%. As of February 26, 1999, we had $206.4 billion of assets under
management. We manage merchant banking funds that had $15.5 billion of capital
commitments as of the end of fiscal 1998.
 
     Assets under supervision are comprised of assets under management and other
client assets. Assets under management typically generate fees based on a
percentage of their value. Other client assets are comprised of assets in
brokerage accounts of primarily high net worth individuals, on which we earn
commissions.
 
     We pursue our strategy to grow our three core businesses through an
emphasis on:
 
EXPANDING HIGH VALUE-ADDED BUSINESSES
 
     To achieve strong growth and high returns, we seek to build leadership
positions in high value-added services such as mergers and acquisitions,
executing large and complex transactions for institutional investors and asset
management.
 
INCREASING THE STABILITY OF OUR EARNINGS
 
     While we plan to continue to grow each of our core businesses, our goal is
to gradually increase the stability of our earnings by emphasizing growth in
Investment Banking and Asset Management and Securities Services.
 
PURSUING INTERNATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
 
     We believe that our global reach will allow us to take advantage of
international growth opportunities. For example, we expect increased business
activity as a result of the establishment of the European Economic and Monetary
Union, the shift we anticipate toward privatization of pension systems and the
changing demographics around the world.
 
LEVERAGING THE FRANCHISE
 
     We believe our various businesses are generally stronger and more
successful because they are part of the Goldman Sachs franchise. Our culture of
teamwork fosters cooperation among our businesses, which allows us to provide
our clients with a full range of products and services on a coordinated basis.
 
                             COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS
 
STRONG CLIENT RELATIONSHIPS
 
     We focus on building long-term client relationships. For example, in fiscal
1998, over 75% of our Investment Banking revenues represented business from
existing clients.
 
                                        5
<PAGE>   32
 
DISTINCTIVE PEOPLE AND CULTURE
 
     Our most important asset is our people. We seek to reinforce our employees'
commitment to our culture and values through recruiting, training, a
comprehensive review system and a compensation philosophy that rewards teamwork.
 
GLOBAL REACH
 
     We have achieved leading positions in major international markets by
capitalizing on our product knowledge and global research, as well as by
building a local presence where appropriate. As a result, we are one of the few
truly global investment banking and securities firms with the ability to execute
large and complex cross-border transactions.
 
                         INDUSTRY AND ECONOMIC OUTLOOK
 
     We believe that significant growth and profit opportunities exist in the
financial services industry over the long term. These opportunities derive from
long-term trends, including financial market deregulation, the globalization of
the world economy, the increasing focus of companies on shareholder value,
consolidations in various industries, growth in investable funds and
accelerating technology and financial product innovation. We believe that over
the last 15 years these trends, coupled with generally declining interest rates
and favorable market conditions, have contributed to a substantially higher rate
of growth in activity in the financial services industry than the growth in
overall economic activity. While the future economic environment may not be as
favorable as that experienced in the last 15 years and there may be periods of
adverse economic and market conditions, we believe that these trends should
continue to affect the financial services industry positively over the long
term.
 
     The following table sets forth selected key industry indicators:
 
                            KEY INDUSTRY INDICATORS
                 ($ in billions, except gross domestic product)
                         (volume in millions of shares)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     AS OF OR FOR
                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                          -----------------------------------     CAGR(6)
                                           1983     1988     1993      1998       '83-'98
                                           ----     ----     ----      ----       -------
<S>                                       <C>      <C>      <C>       <C>         <C>
Worldwide gross domestic product (in
  trillions)(1).........................  $   10   $   18   $    24       $29(7)     8%(7)
Worldwide mergers and acquisitions(2)...      96      527       460     2,522       24
Worldwide equity issued(2)..............      50       51       172       269       12
Worldwide debt issued(2)................     146      631     1,546     2,932       22
Worldwide equity market
  capitalization(3).....................   3,384    9,728    14,016    27,459       15
NYSE average daily volume...............      85      162       265       674       15
Worldwide pension assets(4).............  $1,900   $3,752   $ 6,560   $10,975       12
U.S. mutual fund assets(5)..............     293      810     2,075     5,530       22
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Source: The Economist Intelligence Unit, January 1999.
(2) Source: Securities Data Company.
(3) Source: International Finance Corporation.
(4) Source: InterSec Research Corp.
(5) Source: Investment Company Institute.
(6) Compound annual growth rate.
(7) Data as of December 31, 1997; compound annual growth rate 1983-1997.
 
                            ------------------------
 
                                OUR HEADQUARTERS
 
     Our headquarters are located at 85 Broad Street, New York, New York 10004,
telephone (212) 902-1000.
 
                                        6
<PAGE>   33
 
                                  THE OFFERING
 
     If you purchase a note, we will describe the specific terms of that note in
a supplement to this prospectus. Please refer to "Description of Notes We May
Offer" in this prospectus for more information about the notes.
 
Notes offered.................   Medium-Term Notes, Series B.
 
Issuer........................   The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
 
Stated maturity...............   12 months or more from original issue date, as
                                 stated in the applicable prospectus supplement.
 
Amount initially offered......   Aggregate offering price of up to
                                 $15,000,000,000 or its equivalent in any other
                                 currencies or composite currencies.
 
Ranking.......................   The notes will rank equally in right of payment
                                 with all other senior, unsecured debt
                                 obligations of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
 
Interest features.............   A note may bear interest at a fixed rate or a
                                 floating rate, which may be determined by
                                 reference to a formula or index, or may bear no
                                 interest, as stated in the applicable
                                 prospectus supplement.
 
Redemption/repayment
features......................   A note may be subject to redemption at our
                                 option, repayment at your option or both, if
                                 specified in the applicable prospectus
                                 supplement.
 
Currency features.............   Payments of principal or interest on a note may
                                 be made in currencies or composite currencies
                                 other than U.S. dollars, if specified in the
                                 applicable prospectus supplement.
 
Index features................   The amount of principal or interest payable on
                                 a note may be determined by reference to a
                                 formula or index, if specified in the
                                 applicable prospectus supplement.
 
Plan of distribution..........   In connection with their original issuance, we
                                 will offer and sell the notes directly, through
                                 our agents named in the applicable prospectus
                                 supplement, or to our agents so named for
                                 resale. After a note has been originally
                                 issued, agents affiliated with us may acquire
                                 and resell the note in market-making
                                 transactions.
 
Book-entry issuance and
  settlement..................   We will issue the notes only in book-entry
                                 form -- i.e., as global notes registered in the
                                 name of The Depository Trust Company, New York,
                                 New York, or its nominee, unless otherwise
                                 stated in the applicable prospectus supplement.
                                 Each sale of a note in global form will settle
                                 in immediately available funds through DTC.
 
Use of proceeds...............   We intend to use the net proceeds from the
                                 sales of notes to provide additional funds for
                                 our operations and for other general corporate
                                 purposes.
 
                                        7
<PAGE>   34
 
                           OUR COMMON STOCK OFFERING
 
     On May 7, 1999 we converted from partnership to corporate form, with The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. as the successor parent company. At the same time, The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. completed an initial public offering of its common
stock. In that offering, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. sold 51,000,000 shares
for its own account and two of its shareholders, Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets,
Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association, sold a total of 18,000,000 shares
for their accounts.
 
     We received net proceeds from our common stock offering of $2.6 billion,
based on the initial public offering price of $53.00 per share, after deducting
the underwriting discounts and estimated offering expenses payable by us in our
common stock offering. We intend to use those proceeds in the manner described
below under "Use of Proceeds".
 
     We are managed by our principal owners. Simultaneously with our conversion
from partnership to corporate form and our common stock offering, we made
equity-based awards to substantially all of our employees. We also completed a
number of other transactions in order to convert from partnership to corporate
form at the time of the closing of our common stock offering. Upon the closing
of those transactions, our employees, including former partners, owned
approximately 65% of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. None of our employees sold
shares in our common stock offering. For a more detailed description of these
and other transactions, see "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions --
Incorporation and Related Transactions", "Management -- The Employee Initial
Public Offering Awards" and "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information".
 
                        OUR UNDERWRITTEN DEBT OFFERINGS
 
     At or about the time of this offering, we plan to sell:
 
   
- - approximately $1.8 billion aggregate principal amount of debt securities other
  than the notes, which will be payable in U.S. dollars, in an underwritten
  public offering; and
    
 
- - approximately E1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of debt securities other
  than the notes, which will be payable in euros, the currency of the European
  Economic and Monetary Union, in a separate underwritten public offering. Based
  on the noon buying rate for cable transfers in New York City on May 10, 1999
  of $1.0787 for E1.00, the aggregate principal amount of these euro debt
  securities would be approximately $1.08 billion.
 
These other debt securities would be general, unsecured obligations of The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., would rank equally in right of payment with the
notes, would pay a fixed rate of interest semi-annually and would have a stated
maturity of ten years. If we complete these underwritten debt offerings, we
intend to use the net proceeds of these offerings for the purposes described in
"Use of Proceeds". We may decide to postpone or cancel any of our underwritten
debt offerings or to conduct them on terms other than those described above.
Thus, we may not receive the proceeds referred to above.
 
                                        8
<PAGE>   35
 
                      SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The summary historical consolidated income statement and balance sheet data
set forth below have been derived from our consolidated financial statements and
their notes. Our consolidated financial statements have been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent accountants, as of November 28, 1997 and
November 27, 1998 and for the years ended November 29, 1996, November 28, 1997
and November 27, 1998. Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been
reviewed by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as of February 26, 1999 and for the three
months ended February 26, 1999. These financial statements are included
elsewhere in this prospectus, together with the reports thereon of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
 
     The summary historical consolidated income statement and balance sheet data
set forth below as of November 25, 1994, November 24, 1995 and November 29, 1996
and for the years ended November 25, 1994 and November 24, 1995 have been
derived from our audited consolidated financial statements that are not included
in this prospectus.
 
     The summary historical consolidated income statement and balance sheet data
set forth below as of and for the three months ended February 26, 1999 have been
derived from our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements that, in
the opinion of management, include all adjustments, consisting only of normal
recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation. The interim results
set forth below for the three months ended February 26, 1999 may not be
indicative of results for the full year.
 
     The pro forma data set forth below for the year ended November 27, 1998 and
as of and for the three months ended February 26, 1999 have been derived from
the pro forma data set forth in "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information"
included elsewhere in this prospectus.
 
     In addition to our common stock offerings, the pro forma adjustments
reflect the transactions described under "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions", compensation and benefits related to services rendered by our
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners, the provision
for corporate income taxes and the other transactions described under "Pro Forma
Consolidated Financial Information".
 
     The summary consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations", "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information" and the consolidated
financial statements and their notes.
 
                                        9
<PAGE>   36
 
                      SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           AS OF OR FOR YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER                AS OF OR FOR
                                                  ---------------------------------------------------      THREE MONTHS
                                                   1994       1995       1996       1997       1998     ENDED FEBRUARY 1999
                                                   ----       ----       ----       ----       ----     -------------------
                                                                                                            (unaudited)
                                                                               ($ in millions)
<S>                                               <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
INCOME STATEMENT DATA:
  Net revenues..................................  $ 3,537   $  4,483   $  6,129   $  7,447   $  8,520        $  2,995
  Pre-tax earnings(1)...........................      508      1,368      2,606      3,014      2,921           1,188
 
BALANCE SHEET DATA:
  Total assets(2)...............................  $95,296   $100,066   $152,046   $178,401   $217,380        $230,624
  Long-term borrowings..........................   14,418     13,358     12,376     15,667     19,906          20,405
  Partners' capital.............................    4,771      4,905      5,309      6,107      6,310           6,612
 
PRO FORMA DATA (UNAUDITED)(3):
  Pro forma net earnings........................       --         --         --         --   $  1,256        $    516
  Pro forma ratio of earnings to fixed
    charges(4)..................................       --         --         --         --      1.15x           1.30x
  Pro forma stockholders' equity as adjusted for
    our common stock offering...................       --         --         --         --         --        $  7,627
 
SELECTED DATA AND RATIOS (UNAUDITED):
  Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(1)(4)......    1.06x      1.14x      1.23x      1.23x      1.21x           1.41x
  Assets under supervision:
    Assets under management.....................  $43,671   $ 52,358   $ 94,599   $135,929   $194,821        $206,380
    Other client assets.........................   49,061     57,716     76,892    102,033    142,018         163,315
                                                  -------   --------   --------   --------   --------        --------
  Total assets under supervision................  $92,732   $110,074   $171,491   $237,962   $336,839        $369,695
                                                  =======   ========   ========   ========   ========        ========
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
 (1) Since we historically operated in partnership form, payments to our profit
     participating limited partners were accounted for as distributions of
     partners' capital rather than as compensation expense. As a result, our
     pre-tax earnings and compensation and benefits expense have not reflected
     any payments for services rendered by our managing directors who were
     profit participating limited partners. Accordingly, our historical pre-tax
     earnings understate the expected operating costs to be incurred by us after
     our conversion to corporate form. As a corporation, we will include
     payments for services rendered by our managing directors who were profit
     participating limited partners in compensation and benefits expense. For
     financial information that reflects pro forma compensation and benefits
     expense as if we had been a corporation, see "Pro Forma Consolidated
     Financial Information".
 
 (2) Total assets and liabilities were increased by $11.64 billion as of
     November 27, 1998 and $8.99 billion as of February 26, 1999 due to the
     adoption of the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
     No. 125 that were deferred by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
     No. 127. For a discussion of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
     Nos. 125 and 127, see "Accounting Developments" in Note 2 to the audited
     consolidated financial statements.
 
 (3) Reflects such adjustments as are necessary, in the opinion of management,
     for a fair presentation of the results of operations and stockholders'
     equity of Goldman Sachs on a pro forma basis. See "Pro Forma Consolidated
     Financial Information" for more detailed information concerning these
     adjustments.
 
 (4) For purposes of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, "earnings"
     represent pre-tax earnings plus fixed charges and "fixed charges" represent
     interest expense plus that portion of rent expense that, in our opinion,
     approximates the interest factor included in rent expense. Neither the pro
     forma ratio of earnings to fixed charges nor the historical ratio of
     earnings to fixed charges gives effect to this offering of notes or our
     underwritten debt offerings.
 
                                       10
<PAGE>   37
 
                                  RISK FACTORS
 
     An investment in the notes we are offering involves a number of risks. You
should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together
with the other information in this prospectus, before investing in the notes.
 
 THE RISKS WE FACE IN OUR BUSINESSES COULD REDUCE THE MARKET VALUE OF THE NOTES
                      AND IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO REPAY THEM
 
     We face a number of risks in our businesses, including market, liquidity,
credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. Many of these risks are
substantial and inherent in our businesses. These risks could harm our operating
results, our business prospects or our financial condition. If that were to
occur, the value of an investment in the notes could also be reduced, in two
main ways.
 
Business Risks Could Hurt the Credit Ratings of the Notes and, Therefore, Their
Market Value and Marketability
 
     The business risks we describe in this section entitled "Risk Factors"
could reduce our profitability and our ability to borrow or otherwise raise
cash. For example, we could incur large trading losses due to severe market
fluctuations, our investment banking revenues could decline due to a prolonged
market downturn or we could become unable to refinance our debt due to a
disruption in the credit markets. If this were to occur, the rating agencies
that provide the credit ratings assigned to the notes could withdraw or lower
their ratings or could place us on "credit watch" with negative implications. If
that happened, the market value of the notes could fall. In addition, the number
of potential investors who might be willing to purchase the notes, even at a
lower price, could decrease, thereby impairing your ability to sell the notes in
any trading market for the notes that may develop. Any of these developments
could reduce the value of your investment in the notes.
 
     Even if the business risks we describe below did not have an immediate
impact on Goldman Sachs, they could harm our business prospects. For example,
serious employee misconduct could hurt our business reputation, we could become
the target of serious, protracted litigation or regulatory action or the
competition we face from other firms could hamper our ability to enhance or even
maintain our position in important markets in the future. Developments such as
these could harm our business prospects, which in turn could lead the rating
agencies to question our ability to meet our payment obligations in a timely
manner and thus to lower our credit ratings.
 
If Severe Enough, Business Risks Could Also Impair Our Ability to Obtain the
Cash We Will Need to Pay Interest or Principal on the Notes
 
     The business risks we describe below could, if severe or protracted,
prevent us from obtaining the cash we will need to make timely payments on our
debt, including the notes. This could occur, for example, if our revenues
declined or our expenses increased relative to our revenues. In addition, we may
be unable to raise the funds needed to pay our obligations if our ability to
borrow in the credit markets were impaired, either because of a general
disruption in those markets or because of a decline in our credit ratings due to
events affecting our financial position in particular or our industry generally.
Similarly, our available cash could be reduced if we were unable to sell
securities or other assets we hold as needed or if The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
were unable to obtain sufficient funds from its subsidiaries because of
regulatory restrictions or financial problems affecting them. A significant and
sustained reduction in the cash available to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. could
make it difficult for us to meet our payment obligations on our debt, including
the notes, in a timely manner.
 
                       MARKET FLUCTUATIONS COULD HARM OUR
                          BUSINESSES IN MANY WAYS AND,
                      CONSEQUENTLY, COULD LOWER THE VALUE
                         OF AN INVESTMENT IN THE NOTES
 
     As an investment banking and securities firm, our businesses are materially
affected by
 
                                       11
<PAGE>   38
 
conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, both in
the United States and elsewhere around the world. The equity and debt markets in
the United States and elsewhere have achieved record or near record levels, and
this favorable business environment will not continue indefinitely. In the event
of a market downturn, our businesses could be adversely affected in many ways,
including those described below. Our revenues are likely to decline in such
circumstances and, if we were unable to reduce expenses at the same pace, our
profit margins would erode. For example, in the second half of fiscal 1998, we
recorded negative net revenues from our Trading and Principal Investments
business and from mid-August to mid-October the number of equity underwritings
and announced mergers and acquisitions transactions in which we participated
declined substantially due to adverse economic and market conditions. See
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Business Environment" for a discussion of the market environment
in which we operated during that period. Even in the absence of a market
downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility.
 
     Developments such as lower revenues, declining profit margins and losses
from trading and investment activities could negatively affect the credit
ratings of the notes and, therefore, their market value. In addition, if
sufficiently severe, these developments could reduce the cash available to us to
make payments on our debt, including the notes. In the following paragraphs, we
describe several ways in which these developments could occur.
 
We May Incur Significant Losses from Our Trading and Investment Activities Due
to Market Fluctuations and Volatility
 
     We generally maintain large trading and investment positions in the fixed
income, currency, commodity and equity markets. To the extent that we own
assets, i.e., have long positions, in any of those markets, a downturn in those
markets could result in losses from a decline in the value of those long
positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets we do not own,
i.e., have short positions, in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets
could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to cover our short
positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. We may from time to time have
a trading strategy consisting of holding a long position in one asset and a
short position in another, from which we expect to earn revenues based on
changes in the relative value of the two assets. If, however, the relative value
of the two assets changes in a direction or manner that we did not anticipate or
against which we are not hedged, we might realize a loss in those paired
positions. We incurred significant losses in our Trading and Principal
Investments business in the second half of fiscal 1998 from this type of
"relative value" trade. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Business Environment" for a discussion of
those losses and the market environment in which we operated during that period.
In addition, we maintain substantial trading positions that can be adversely
affected by the level of volatility in the financial markets, i.e., the degree
to which trading prices fluctuate over a particular period, in a particular
market, regardless of market levels.
 
Our Investment Banking Revenues May Decline in Adverse Market or Economic
Conditions
 
     Unfavorable financial or economic conditions would likely reduce the number
and size of transactions in which we provide underwriting, mergers and
acquisitions advisory and other services. Our Investment Banking revenues, in
the form of financial advisory and underwriting fees, are directly related to
the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and would
therefore be adversely affected by a sustained market downturn. In particular,
our results of operations would be adversely affected by a significant reduction
in the number or size of mergers and acquisitions transactions.
 
                                       12
<PAGE>   39
 
We May Generate Lower Revenues from Commissions and Asset Management Fees in a
Market Downturn
 
     A market downturn could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions
that we execute for our customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues
we receive from commissions and spreads. In addition, because the fees that we
charge for managing our clients' portfolios are in many cases based on the value
of those portfolios, a market downturn that reduces the value of our clients'
portfolios or increases the amount of withdrawals would reduce the revenue we
receive from our asset management business.
 
Holding Large and Concentrated Positions May Expose Us to Large Losses
 
     Concentration of risk in the past has increased the losses that we have
incurred in our arbitrage, market-making, block trading, underwriting and
lending businesses and may continue to do so in the future. Goldman Sachs has
committed substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often
require Goldman Sachs to take large positions in the securities of a particular
issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. Moreover, the
trend in all major capital markets is towards larger and more frequent
commitments of capital in many of these activities. For example, as described
under "Business -- Trading and Principal Investments -- Equities", we are
experiencing an increase in the number and size of block trades that we execute,
and we expect this trend to continue.
 
Our Hedging Strategies May Not Prevent Losses
 
     If any of the variety of instruments and strategies we utilize to hedge our
exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. Many
of our strategies are based on historical trading patterns and correlations. For
example, if we hold a long position in an asset, we may hedge this position by
taking a short position in an asset where the short position has, historically,
moved in a direction that would offset a change in value in the long position.
However, these strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk
exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. We have often
hedged our exposure to corporate fixed income securities by taking a short
position in U.S. Treasury securities, since historically the value of U.S.
Treasury securities has changed in a manner similar to changes in the value of
corporate fixed income securities. Due to the move by investors to higher credit
quality fixed income securities in mid-August to mid-October 1998, however, the
prices for corporate fixed income securities declined while the prices for U.S.
Treasury securities increased and, as a result, we incurred losses on both
positions. Unexpected market developments also affected other hedging strategies
during this time, and unanticipated developments could impact these or different
hedging strategies in the future. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Risk Management" for a
discussion of the policies and procedures we use to identify, monitor and manage
the risks we assume in conducting our businesses and of refinements we have made
to our risk management policies and procedures as a result of our recent
experience.
 
A Prolonged Market Downturn Could Impair Our Operating Results
 
     While we encountered extremely difficult market conditions in mid-August to
mid-October 1998, the financial markets rebounded late in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 1998. At some time in the future, there may be a more sustained period of
market decline or weakness that will leave us operating in a difficult market
environment and subject us to the risks that we describe in this section for a
longer period of time.
 
Market Risk May Increase the Other Risks That We Face
 
     In addition to the potentially adverse effects on our businesses described
above, market risk could exacerbate other risks that we face. For example, if we
incur substantial trading losses, our need for liquidity could rise sharply
while our access to liquidity could be impaired. In addition, in conjunction
with a
 
                                       13
<PAGE>   40
 
market downturn, our customers and counterparties could incur substantial losses
of their own, thereby weakening their financial condition and increasing our
credit risk to them. Our liquidity risk and credit risk are described below.
 
                        OUR RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND
                       PROCEDURES MAY LEAVE US EXPOSED TO
                       UNIDENTIFIED OR UNANTICIPATED RISK
 
     We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management
policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future.
Nonetheless, our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks
may not be fully effective. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon
our use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may
not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the
historical measures indicate. For example, the market movements of the late
third and early fourth quarters of fiscal 1998 were larger and involved greater
divergences in relative asset values than we anticipated. This caused us to
experience trading losses that were greater and recurred more frequently than
some of our risk measures indicated were likely to occur. See "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Business Environment" for a discussion of the market environment
in which we operated during the second half of fiscal 1998 and "-- Risk
Management" for a discussion of the policies and procedures we use to identify,
monitor and manage the risks we assume in conducting our businesses and of
refinements we have made to our risk management policies and procedures as a
result of our recent experience.
 
     Other risk management methods depend upon evaluation of information
regarding markets, clients or other matters that is publicly available or
otherwise accessible by Goldman Sachs. This information may not in all cases be
accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational,
legal and regulatory risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures
to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and
these policies and procedures may not be fully effective.
 
     If we were unable to manage our risk exposure effectively, the rating
agencies could lower our credit ratings, which could reduce the market value of
the notes and your ability to resell them at attractive prices. If we suffer
serious losses due to an inability to manage risk, this could also diminish our
available cash and make it difficult for us to make timely payments on our debt,
including the notes.
 
   A LACK OF LIQUIDITY COULD HURT AN INVESTMENT IN THE NOTES BY IMPAIRING OUR
 ABILITY TO FUND OUR OPERATIONS OR, IN SOME CASES, TO PAY AMOUNTS WE OWE ON OUR
                                      DEBT
 
     Liquidity, i.e., ready access to funds, is essential to our businesses. In
addition to maintaining a cash position, we rely on three principal sources of
liquidity: borrowing in the debt markets; access to the repurchase and
securities lending markets; and selling securities and other assets. See
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Liquidity" for a discussion of our sources of liquidity.
 
     If we were unable to meet our liquidity needs, we could find it necessary
to reduce our business activities or it could become difficult to continue them
in their current form. This could lead the rating agencies to reduce our credit
ratings, lowering the market value of the notes and making it harder for
investors to sell them. Moreover, if our ability to obtain financing or sell
assets were sufficiently impaired, we would be unable to obtain the cash we need
to meet our payment obligations on our debt, including the notes. In the
following paragraphs, we describe our liquidity needs and the risks we face in
meeting them.
 
An Inability to Access the Debt Capital Markets Could Impair Our Liquidity
 
     We depend on continuous access to the debt capital markets to finance our
day-to-day operations. An inability to raise money in the long-term or
short-term debt markets, or to engage in repurchase agreements or securities
lending, could have a substantial negative
 
                                       14
<PAGE>   41
effect on our liquidity. Our access to debt in amounts adequate to finance our
activities could be impaired by factors that affect Goldman Sachs in particular
or the financial services industry in general. For example, lenders could
develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects
if we incurred large trading losses, if the level of our business activity
decreased due to a market downturn, if regulatory authorities took significant
action against us or if we discovered that one of our employees had engaged in
serious unauthorized or illegal activity. Our ability to borrow in the debt
markets also could be impaired by factors that are not specific to Goldman
Sachs, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views
about the prospects for the investment banking, securities or financial services
industries generally.
 
     We also depend on banks to finance our day-to-day operations. As a result
of the recent consolidation in the banking industry, some of our lenders have
merged or consolidated with other banks and financial institutions. While we
have not been materially adversely affected to date, it is possible that further
consolidation could lead to a loss of a number of our key banking relationships
and a reduction in the amount of credit extended to us.
 
An Inability to Access the Short-Term Debt Markets Could Impair Our Liquidity
 
     We depend on the issuance of commercial paper and promissory notes as a
principal source of unsecured short-term funding for our operations. As of
February 26, 1999, Goldman Sachs had $21.63 billion of outstanding commercial
paper and promissory notes with a weighted-average maturity of approximately 75
days. Our liquidity depends to an important degree on our ability to refinance
these borrowings on a continuous basis. Investors who hold our outstanding
commercial paper and promissory notes have no obligation to purchase new
instruments when the outstanding instruments mature.
 
Our Liquidity Could Be Adversely Affected If Our Ability to Sell Assets Is
Impaired
 
     If we were unable to borrow in the debt capital markets, we would need to
liquidate assets in order to meet our maturing liabilities, perhaps including
the notes. In certain market environments, such as times of market volatility or
uncertainty, overall market liquidity may decline. In a time of reduced
liquidity, we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell
assets at depressed prices, which could adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition.
 
     Our ability to sell our assets may be impaired by other market participants
seeking to sell similar assets into the market at the same time. In the late
third and early fourth quarters of fiscal 1998, for example, the markets for
some assets were adversely affected by simultaneous attempts by a number of
institutions to sell similar assets.
 
A Reduction in Our Credit Ratings Could Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and
Competitive Position and Increase Our Borrowing Costs
 
     Our borrowing costs and our access to the debt capital markets depend
significantly on our credit ratings. These ratings are assigned by rating
agencies, which may reduce or withdraw their ratings or place Goldman Sachs on
"credit watch" with negative implications at any time. Credit ratings are also
important to Goldman Sachs when competing in certain markets and when seeking to
engage in longer-term transactions, including over-the-counter derivatives. A
reduction in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our
access to the capital markets. This, in turn, could reduce our earnings and
adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, a reduction in the credit rating of
the notes could adversely affect their market value or your ability to sell the
notes. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations -- Liquidity -- Credit Ratings" for additional information
concerning our credit ratings.
 
                                       15
<PAGE>   42
 
  LOSSES DUE TO FINANCIAL OR OTHER PROBLEMS EXPERIENCED BY THIRD PARTIES COULD
                       IMPAIR AN INVESTMENT IN THE NOTES
 
     We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities
or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties include our
trading counterparties, customers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses
and other financial intermediaries as well as issuers whose securities we hold.
These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of
liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. This risk may arise, for
example, from holding securities of third parties; entering into swap or other
derivative contracts under which counterparties have long-term obligations to
make payments to us; executing securities, futures, currency or commodity trades
that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty
or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other
financial intermediaries; and extending credit to our clients through bridge or
margin loans or other arrangements. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Risk Management -- Credit Risk"
for a further discussion of the credit risks to which we are exposed.
 
     Significant failures by third parties to perform their obligations to us
could reduce our revenue and make it difficult for us to borrow in the credit
markets. If severe enough, these developments could reduce the amount of funds
available to us to meet our payment obligations on our debt, including the
notes, in a timely manner. Even in less severe cases, these developments could
raise concerns about our financial condition and lead the rating agencies to
lower our credit ratings. Thus, even if our ability to repay the notes were not
impaired, their market value could decline. In the following paragraphs, we
describe the ways in which we are exposed to these credit risks.
 
We May Suffer Significant Losses from Our Credit Exposures
 
     In recent years, we have significantly expanded our swaps and other
derivatives businesses and placed a greater emphasis on providing credit and
liquidity to our clients. As a result, our credit exposures have increased in
amount and in duration. In addition, as competition in the financial services
industry has increased, we have experienced pressure to assume longer-term
credit risk, extend credit against less liquid collateral and price more
aggressively the credit risks that we take.
 
Our Clients and Counterparties May Be Unable to Perform Their Obligations to Us
as a Result of Economic or Political Conditions
 
     Country, regional and political risks are components of credit risk, as
well as market risk. Economic or political pressures in a country or region,
including those arising from local market disruptions or currency crises, may
adversely affect the ability of clients or counterparties located in that
country or region to obtain foreign exchange or credit and, therefore, to
perform their obligations to us. See "-- We Are Exposed to Special Risks in
Emerging and Other Markets, Which Could Impair Our Ability to Fund Payments on
Our Debt" for a further discussion of our exposure to these risks.
 
Defaults by a Large Financial Institution Could Adversely Affect Financial
Markets Generally and Us Specifically
 
     The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely
interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships
between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default by, one
institution could lead to significant liquidity problems or losses in, or
defaults by, other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as "systemic
risk" and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing
agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we
interact on a daily basis.
 
     The possibility of default by a major market participant in the second half
of fiscal 1998 and concerns throughout the financial industry regarding the
resulting impact on markets led us to participate in an industry-wide consortium
that invested in Long-Term
 
                                       16
<PAGE>   43
Capital Portfolio, L.P., which is described under "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity -- The
Balance Sheet". Actual defaults, increases in perceived default risk and other
similar events could arise in the future and could have an adverse effect on the
financial markets and on Goldman Sachs.
 
The Information That We Use in Managing Our Credit Risk May Be Inaccurate or
Incomplete
 
     Although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients and
counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe
may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances
that are difficult to detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive full
information with respect to the trading risks of a counterparty. In addition, in
cases where we have extended credit against collateral, we may find that we are
undersecured, for example, as a result of sudden declines in market values that
reduce the value of collateral.
 
   OUR COMPUTER SYSTEMS AND THOSE OF THIRD PARTIES MAY NOT ACHIEVE YEAR 2000
                  READINESS -- YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE
 
     With the year 2000 approaching, many institutions around the world are
reviewing and modifying their computer systems to ensure that they are Year 2000
compliant. The issue, in general terms, is that many existing computer systems
and microprocessors (including those in non-information technology equipment and
systems) use only two digits to identify a year in the date field with the
assumption that the first two digits of the year are always "19". Consequently,
on January 1, 2000, computers that are not Year 2000 compliant may read the year
as 1900. Systems that calculate, compare or sort using the incorrect date may
malfunction.
 
     The Year 2000 problems described below could disrupt our normal funding
administration process, resulting in late payments or the payment of wrong
amounts on our debt, including the notes. If sufficiently severe and protracted,
these problems could also lead the rating agencies to reduce our credit ratings,
which could hurt the market value of the notes and possibly your ability to
resell them.
 
Our Computer Systems May Fail
 
     Because we are dependent, to a very substantial degree, upon the proper
functioning of our computer systems, a failure of our systems to be Year 2000
compliant would have a material adverse effect on us. Failure of this kind
could, for example, cause settlement of trades to fail, lead to incomplete or
inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades in securities,
currencies, commodities and other assets, result in generation of erroneous
results or give rise to uncertainty about our exposure to trading risks and our
need for liquidity. If not remedied, potential risks include business
interruption or shutdown, financial loss, regulatory actions, reputational harm
and legal liability.
 
The Computer Systems of Third Parties on Which We Depend May Fail
 
     We depend upon the proper functioning of third-party computer and
non-information technology systems. These parties include trading
counterparties, financial intermediaries such as securities and commodities
exchanges, depositories, clearing agencies, clearing houses and commercial banks
and vendors such as providers of telecommunication services and other utilities.
We continue to assess counterparties, intermediaries and vendors with whom we
have important financial or operational relationships to determine the extent of
their Year 2000 preparedness. We have not yet received sufficient information
from all parties about their Year 2000 preparedness to assess the effectiveness
of their efforts. Moreover, in many cases, we are not in a position to verify
the accuracy or completeness of the information we receive from third parties
and as a result are dependent on their willingness and ability to disclose, and
to address, their Year 2000 problems. In addition, in some international markets
in which we do business, the level of awareness and remediation efforts relating
to the Year 2000 issue may be less advanced than in the United States.
 
                                       17
<PAGE>   44
 
     If third parties with whom we interact have Year 2000 problems that are not
remedied, problems could include the following:
 
- - in the case of vendors, disruption of important services upon which Goldman
  Sachs depends, such as telecommunications and electrical power;
 
- - in the case of third-party data providers, receipt of inaccurate or
  out-of-date information that would impair our ability to perform critical data
  functions, such as pricing our securities or other assets;
 
- - in the case of financial intermediaries, such as exchanges and clearing
  agents, failed trade settlements, inability to trade in certain markets and
  disruption of funding flows;
 
- - in the case of banks and other lenders, disruption of capital flows
  potentially resulting in liquidity stress; and
 
- - in the case of counterparties and customers, financial and accounting
  difficulties for those parties that expose Goldman Sachs to increased credit
  risk and lost business.
 
Disruption or suspension of activity in the world's financial markets is also
possible.
 
Our Revenues May Decline If Market Activity Decreases Shortly Before and After
the Year 2000
 
     We believe that uncertainty about the success of remediation efforts
generally may cause many market participants to reduce the level of their market
activities temporarily as they assess the effectiveness of these efforts during
a "phase-in" period beginning in late 1999. We believe that lenders are likely
to take similar steps, which will result in a reduction in available funding
sources. Consequently, there may be a downturn in customer and general market
activity for a short period of time before and after January 1, 2000. If this
occurs, our net revenues may be adversely affected, possibly materially,
depending on how long the reduction in activity continues and how broadly it
affects the markets. In addition, we expect to reduce our own trading activities
and the size of our balance sheet in order to manage the number and type of our
transactions that settle during this period and our related funding needs. This
also could reduce our net revenues. We cannot predict the magnitude of the
impact that these kinds of reductions would have on our businesses.
 
We May Be Exposed to Litigation as a Result of Year 2000 Problems
 
     We may be exposed to litigation with our customers and counterparties as a
result of Year 2000 problems. For example, litigation could arise from problems
relating to our internal systems or to external systems on which we depend, as
well as from problems involving companies in which our clients or the funds we
manage hold investments.
 
Our Year 2000 Program May Not Be Effective and Our Estimates of Timing and Cost
May Not Be Accurate
 
     Our Year 2000 program may not be effective and our estimates about the
timing and cost of completing our program may not be accurate. For a description
of our program and the steps that remain to be taken, see "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Risk
Management -- Operational and Year 2000 Risks -- Year 2000 Readiness
Disclosure".
 
                    OTHER OPERATIONAL RISKS MAY DISRUPT OUR
                    BUSINESSES, RESULT IN REGULATORY ACTION
                         AGAINST US OR LIMIT OUR GROWTH
 
     We face operational risk arising from mistakes made in the confirmation or
settlement of transactions or from transactions not being properly recorded,
evaluated or accounted for. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability
to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and
diverse markets in many currencies, and the transactions we process have become
increasingly complex. Consequently, we rely heavily on our financial, accounting
and other data processing systems. If any of these systems do not operate
properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our
businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or
 
                                       18
<PAGE>   45
 
reputational damage. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing
volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our
businesses. In recent years, we have substantially upgraded and expanded the
capabilities of our data processing systems and other operating technology, and
we expect that we will need to continue to upgrade and expand in the future to
avoid disruption of, or constraints on, our operations.
 
     If sufficiently severe and protracted, problems caused by our inability to
manage our operations effectively could lead the rating agencies to question our
controls and financial condition and to lower the credit ratings of the notes.
Problems of this kind could also reduce our profitability or make lenders less
willing to provide funding to us. If these two important sources of liquidity
were impaired, we could find it difficult to obtain the cash we need to make
payments on our debt, including payments on the notes.
 
                  LEGAL AND REGULATORY RISKS ARE INHERENT AND
                    SUBSTANTIAL IN OUR BUSINESSES AND COULD
                   LEAD TO A REDUCTION IN OUR CREDIT RATINGS
                      OR IN OUR ABILITY TO REPAY THE NOTES
 
     Substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against
Goldman Sachs could have a material financial effect or cause significant
reputational harm to Goldman Sachs, which in turn could seriously harm our
business prospects. In that event, the credit ratings, and therefore the market
value, of the notes could decline. In some cases, these developments could have
a negative effect on the willingness of our lenders to provide us with the funds
we may need to meet our payment obligations on our debt, including the notes, in
a timely manner.
 
Our Exposure to Legal Liability Is Significant
 
     We face significant legal risks in our businesses and the volume and amount
of damages claimed in litigation against financial intermediaries are
increasing. These risks include potential liability under securities or other
laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with
securities and other transactions, potential liability for the "fairness
opinions" and other advice we provide to participants in corporate transactions
and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. We
also face the possibility that counterparties in complex or risky trading
transactions will claim that we improperly failed to tell them of the risks or
that they were not authorized or permitted to enter into these transactions with
us and that their obligations to Goldman Sachs are not enforceable. Particularly
in our rapidly growing business focused on high net worth individuals, we are
increasingly exposed to claims against Goldman Sachs for recommending
investments that are not consistent with a client's investment objectives or
engaging in unauthorized or excessive trading. During a prolonged market
downturn, we would expect these types of claims to increase. We are also subject
to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or
harassment, among other things. These risks often may be difficult to assess or
quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial
periods of time. We incur significant legal expenses every year in defending
against litigation, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. See
"Business -- Legal Matters" for a discussion of some of the legal matters in
which we are currently involved.
 
Extensive Regulation of Our Businesses Limits Our Activities and May Subject Us
to Significant Penalties
 
     The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. Goldman
Sachs is subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations
in the United States and in virtually all other jurisdictions in which it
operates around the world.
 
     The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the
integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third
parties who deal with Goldman Sachs and are not designed to protect our
shareholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our
activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market
conduct requirements. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory
authorities, including extended in-
 
                                       19
<PAGE>   46
 
vestigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new
regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in
substantial penalties. Among other things, we could be fined or prohibited from
engaging in some of our business activities. See "Business -- Regulation" for a
further discussion of the regulatory environment in which we conduct our
businesses.
 
Legal Restrictions on Our Clients May Reduce the Demand for Our Services
 
     New laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or
regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our businesses.
For example, changes in antitrust enforcement could affect the level of mergers
and acquisitions activity and changes in regulation could restrict the
activities of our clients and, therefore, the services we provide on their
behalf.
 
  INVESTORS IN THE NOTES FACE ADDITIONAL RISK BECAUSE THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP,
                           INC. IS A HOLDING COMPANY
 
     Because The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is a holding company, it depends on
dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund all
payments on its debt obligations, including its obligations to make payments on
the notes. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.'s right to participate in a
distribution of assets of any of its subsidiaries, whether on liquidation,
reorganization or otherwise, however, will be subject to the prior claims of the
creditors of that subsidiary. The ability of holders of the notes to benefit
from distributions of assets from The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.'s subsidiaries
will also be subject to those prior claims. Consequently, the notes will be
effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations
of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.'s subsidiaries. This means that, if any
subsidiary of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. were to become bankrupt or
insolvent, its assets would be used to satisfy its own liabilities and
obligations before The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. could use those assets to make
payment on The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.'s own liabilities and obligations,
including the notes.
 
                     THE VALUE OF THE NOTES MAY BE IMPAIRED
                           BECAUSE WE DEPEND ON FUNDS
                        FROM OUR REGULATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
     Many of our subsidiaries, including Goldman, Sachs & Co., our principal
U.S. subsidiary, are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block
or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. Regulatory action of that kind could impede our access to the funds we need
to make payments on our debt, including the notes.
 
                         WE MAY BE LIABLE TO CREDITORS
                        OF OUR PARTNERSHIP SUBSIDIARIES
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. is structured as a partnership in which The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. is a general partner, and we may structure other subsidiaries
the same way. A general partner of a partnership may be liable for the
partnership's obligations. Thus, for example, if there were a bankruptcy or
liquidation proceeding with respect to any partnership subsidiary in which The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is a general partner and the assets of that subsidiary
were insufficient to meet all its outstanding liabilities and obligations, The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.'s own assets could become available to the
subsidiary's creditors. This could reduce the assets of The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. that are available to satisfy The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.'s direct
creditors, including investors in the notes.
 
                      WE MAY BE ABLE TO OBTAIN WAIVERS OF
                     SOME OF OUR COVENANTS UNDER THE NOTES
                             WITHOUT YOUR APPROVAL
 
     The indenture governing the notes permits us to issue an unlimited amount
of debt securities in different series from time to time. The notes will be a
single, distinct series of debt securities under the indenture. If we want to
make some types of changes to the indenture or obtain a waiver of compliance
with our covenants under it, we must obtain the approval of the holders of a
majority in principal amount of all series of debt securities that we issue
under the indenture and that are affected by the change or waiver, taken
together as a single class. In many cases, the approval of those holders will be
 
                                       20
<PAGE>   47
 
sufficient for us to make the change or to obtain the waiver, even if it affects
the notes and the holders of a majority in principal amount of the notes do not
grant their approval. For a description of provisions governing consents and
waivers, see "Description of Notes We Are Offering -- Modification and Waiver of
Covenants -- Changes Requiring Majority Approval".
 
                      EMPLOYEE MISCONDUCT IS DIFFICULT TO
DETECT AND DETER AND COULD HARM GOLDMAN SACHS AND REDUCE THE VALUE OF THE NOTES
 
     There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or
other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent
years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. Misconduct by
employees could include binding Goldman Sachs to transactions that exceed
authorized limits or present unacceptable risks, or hiding from Goldman Sachs
unauthorized or unsuccessful activities, which, in either case, may result in
unknown and unmanaged risks or losses. Employee misconduct could also involve
the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result
in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not
always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to
prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.
 
     Employee misconduct could hurt our business, operations or financial
condition and could lead to a decline in our credit ratings and the
marketability of the notes. If these problems were severe enough, they could
also make it difficult for us to obtain from our operations or our lenders the
cash we may need to repay the notes when they come due.
 
                  THE FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY IS INTENSELY
                     COMPETITIVE AND RAPIDLY CONSOLIDATING
 
     The financial services industry -- and all of our businesses -- are
intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete on the basis
of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and
services, innovation, reputation and price. We have experienced intense price
competition in some of our businesses in recent years, such as underwriting fees
on investment grade debt offerings and privatizations. We believe we may
experience pricing pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of
our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.
 
     If we were unable to compete effectively, or if competition became too
costly, our business and operations could suffer. This in turn could lead to a
decline in the credit ratings of the notes. In the following paragraphs, we
describe some of the ways in which competition could affect us.
 
We Face Increased Competition Due to a Trend Toward Consolidation
 
     In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence
among companies in the financial services industry. In particular, a number of
large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial
services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with
other financial institutions. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a
wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage,
asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their
competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking
and securities products with commercial banking, insurance and other financial
services revenues in an effort to gain market share, which could result in
pricing pressure in our businesses.
 
Consolidation Has Increased Our Need for Capital
 
     This trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly increased
the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. This trend has also
hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services
markets. As a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international
operations and to execute large global transactions.
 
                                       21
<PAGE>   48
 
Our Ability to Expand Internationally Will Depend on Our Ability to Compete
Successfully with Local Financial Institutions
 
     We believe that some of our most significant challenges and opportunities
will arise outside the United States, as described under "Industry and Economic
Outlook". In order to take advantage of these opportunities, we will have to
compete successfully with financial institutions based in important non-U.S.
markets, particularly in Europe. Some of these institutions are larger, better
capitalized and have a stronger local presence and a longer operating history in
these markets.
 
Our Revenues May Decline Due to Competition from Alternative Trading Systems
 
     Securities and futures transactions are now being conducted through the
Internet and other alternative, non-traditional trading systems, and it appears
that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably
accelerate. A dramatic increase in computer-based or other electronic trading
may adversely affect our commission and trading revenues, reduce our
participation in the trading markets and associated access to market information
and lead to the creation of new and stronger competitors.
 
                  WE ARE EXPOSED TO SPECIAL RISKS IN EMERGING
                     AND OTHER MARKETS, WHICH COULD IMPAIR
                    OUR ABILITY TO FUND PAYMENTS ON OUR DEBT
 
     In conducting our businesses in major markets around the world, including
many developing markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe, we are
subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are
inherent in operating in other countries. These risks range from difficulties in
settling transactions in emerging markets to possible nationalization,
expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions. We
also face the risk that exchange controls or similar restrictions imposed by
foreign governmental authorities may restrict our ability to convert local
currency received or held by us in their countries into U.S. dollars or other
currencies, or to take those dollars or other currencies out of those countries.
 
     To date, a relatively small part of our businesses has been conducted in
emerging and other markets. As we expand our businesses in these areas, our
exposure to these risks will increase.
 
     If our business or operations were hurt by events in emerging and other
markets described below, the rating agencies could reduce the credit ratings of
the notes, making it more difficult for you to sell them at a favorable price.
If these events were severe enough, they could also diminish the cash generated
by our operations or impair our ability to borrow in the credit markets, making
it difficult for us to obtain the funds we need to meet our payment obligations
on the notes.
 
Turbulence in Emerging Markets May
Adversely Affect Our Businesses
 
     In the last several years, various emerging market countries have
experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant
devaluations of their currencies and low or negative growth rates in their
economies. The possible effects of these conditions include an adverse impact on
our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally.
Moreover, economic or market problems in a single country or region are
increasingly affecting other markets generally. For example, the economic crisis
in Russia in August 1998 adversely affected other emerging markets and led to
turmoil in financial markets worldwide. See "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Business
Environment" for a discussion of the business environment in which we operated
during the second half of fiscal 1998. A continuation of these situations could
adversely affect global economic conditions and world markets and, in turn,
could adversely affect our businesses. Among the risks are regional or global
market downturns and, as noted above, increasing liquidity and credit risks,
particularly in Japan where the economy continues to be weak and we have
significant exposure.
 
                                       22
<PAGE>   49
 
Compliance with Local Laws and Regulations May Be Difficult
 
     In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities
and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be
difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every
market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular
foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our
businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. These
uncertainties may also make it difficult for us to structure our transactions in
such a way that the results we expect to achieve are legally enforceable in all
cases. See "-- Legal and Regulatory Risks Are Inherent and Substantial in Our
Businesses -- Our Exposure to Legal Liability Is Significant and Could Lead to a
Reduction in Our Credit Ratings or in Our Ability to Repay the Notes" for
additional information concerning these matters and "Business -- Regulation" for
a discussion of the regulatory environment in which we conduct our businesses.
 
                        OUR CONVERSION TO CORPORATE FORM
                  MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO RECRUIT,
                       RETAIN AND MOTIVATE KEY EMPLOYEES
 
     Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly
skilled individuals. Competition in the financial services industry for
qualified employees is intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively in
our businesses depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and
motivate our existing employees.
 
     In connection with our common stock offering and the conversion of Goldman
Sachs from partnership to corporate form, the managing directors who were profit
participating limited partners received substantial amounts of common stock in
exchange for their interests in Goldman Sachs. Because these shares of common
stock were received in exchange for partnership interests, ownership of these
shares is not dependent upon these partners' continued employment. However,
these shares are subject to certain restrictions on transfer under a
shareholders' agreement and a portion may be pledged to support these partners'
obligations under noncompetition agreements. The transfer restrictions under the
shareholders' agreement may, however, be waived, as described under "Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions -- Shareholders' Agreement -- Transfer
Restrictions" and "-- Waivers". The steps we have taken to encourage the
continued service of these individuals after our common stock offering may not
be effective. For a description of the compensation plan for our senior
professionals that we have implemented in connection with our common stock
offering, see "Management -- The Partner Compensation Plan".
 
     In connection with our common stock offering and conversion of Goldman
Sachs from partnership to corporate form, employees, other than the managing
directors who were profit participating limited partners, will receive grants of
restricted stock units, stock options or interests in a defined contribution
plan. The incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees provided by these
awards or by future arrangements may not be as effective as the opportunity,
which existed prior to conversion, to become a partner of Goldman Sachs. See
"Management -- The Employee Initial Public Offering Awards" for a description of
these awards.
 
                         AN INVESTMENT IN INDEXED NOTES
                   PRESENTS SIGNIFICANT RISKS NOT ASSOCIATED
                           WITH OTHER TYPES OF NOTES
 
     Indexed notes may present a high level of risk, and investors in certain
indexed notes may lose their entire investment. In addition, the treatment of
indexed notes for U.S. federal income tax purposes is often unclear due to the
absence of any authority specifically addressing the issues presented by any
particular indexed note. Thus, if you are an investor in indexed notes, you
should be capable of independently evaluating the federal income tax
consequences of purchasing an indexed note that apply in your particular
circumstances. You should also read "United States Taxation" for a discussion of
U.S. tax matters.
 
                                       23
<PAGE>   50
 
Investors in Indexed Notes Could Lose Principal or Interest
 
     The principal amount of an indexed note payable at maturity, and/or the
amount of interest payable on an interest payment date, will be determined by
reference to one or more stocks, including baskets of stocks, and stock indices.
We refer to each of these as an "index". The direction and magnitude of the
change in the value of the relevant index will determine the principal amount of
an indexed note payable at maturity and/or the amount of interest payable on an
interest payment date. The terms of a particular indexed note may or may not
include a guaranteed return of a percentage of the face amount at maturity or a
minimum interest rate. Thus, if you purchase an indexed note, you may lose all
or a portion of the principal you invest and may receive no interest on your
investment.
 
The Issuer of Index Stock Could Take Actions That May Adversely Affect an
Indexed Note
 
     The issuer of a stock that serves as an index or part of an index for an
indexed note will have no involvement in the offer and sale of the note and no
obligations to the holder of the note. The issuer may take actions, such as a
merger or sale of assets, without regard to the interests of the holder. Any of
these actions could adversely affect the value of a note indexed to that stock.
 
An Indexed Note May Be Linked to a Volatile Index, Which Could Hurt Your
Investment
 
     Some indices are highly volatile, which means that their value may change
significantly, up or down, over a short period of time. The amount of principal
or interest that can be expected to become payable on an indexed note may vary
substantially from time to time. Because the amount of principal or interest
payable on an indexed note is generally calculated based on the value of the
relevant index on a specified date or over a limited period of time, volatility
in the index increases the risk that the return on the indexed notes may be
adversely affected by a fluctuation in the level of the relevant index.
 
     The volatility of an index may be affected by political or economic events,
including governmental actions, or by the activities of participants in the
relevant markets. Any of these events or activities could adversely affect the
value of an indexed note.
 
An Index to Which a Note Is Linked Could Be Changed or Become Unavailable
 
     Some indices may consist of or refer to several or many different stocks.
The compiler of such an index typically reserves the right to alter the
composition of the index and the manner in which the value of the index is
calculated. An alteration may result in a decrease in the value of or return on
an indexed note that is linked to the index.
 
     An index of this kind may become unavailable due to events such as war,
natural disasters, cessation of publication of the index or a suspension or
disruption of trading in any stock on which the index is based. If an index
becomes unavailable, we may delay determining the amount payable as principal or
interest on an indexed note or we may use an alternative method to determine the
value of the unavailable index. Alternative methods of valuation are generally
intended to produce a value similar to the value resulting from reference to the
relevant index. However, it is unlikely that any alternative method of valuation
we use will produce a value identical to the value that the actual index would
produce. If we use an alternative method of valuation for a note linked to an
index of this kind, the value of the note, or the rate of return on it, may be
lower than it otherwise would be.
 
     Some indexed notes are linked to indices that are not commonly used or have
been developed only recently. The lack of a trading history may make it
difficult to anticipate the volatility or other risks associated with an indexed
note of this kind. In addition, trading in these indices or their underlying
stocks may be limited, which could increase their volatility and decrease the
value of the related indexed notes or the rates of returns on them.
 
Goldman Sachs May Engage in Hedging Activities that Could Adversely Affect an
Indexed Note
 
     In order to hedge an exposure on a particular indexed note, we may,
directly or through our affiliates, enter into transactions
 
                                       24
<PAGE>   51
 
involving the stocks that underlie the index for that note, or derivative
instruments, such as options, on those stocks. Transactions of this kind could
affect the value of the indexed note in a manner adverse to the investor. It is
possible that we could achieve substantial returns from our hedging transactions
while the value of the indexed note may decline.
 
Information About Indices May Not Be Indicative of Future Performance
 
     If we issue an indexed note, we may include historical information about
the relevant index in the applicable prospectus supplement. Any information
about indices that we may provide will be furnished as a matter of information
only, and you should not regard the information as indicative of the range of,
or trends in, fluctuations in the relevant index that may occur in the future.
 
Goldman Sachs May Have Conflicts of Interest Regarding an Indexed Note
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. and our other affiliates may have conflicts of
interest with respect to some indexed notes. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and our other
affiliates may engage in trading, including trading for hedging purposes, for
their proprietary accounts or for other accounts under their management, in
indexed notes and in the stocks on which the index is based or in other
derivative instruments related to the index. These trading activities could
adversely affect the value of indexed notes. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and our other
affiliates may also issue or underwrite securities or derivative instruments
that are linked to the same index as one or more indexed notes. By introducing
competing products into the marketplace in this manner, we could adversely
affect the value of an indexed note.
 
     In addition to being the calculation agent, to the extent that Goldman,
Sachs & Co. or another of our affiliates calculates or compiles a particular
index, it may have considerable discretion in performing the calculation or
compilation. Exercising discretion in this manner could adversely affect the
value of an indexed note based on the index or the rate of return on the note.
 
                    NOTES DENOMINATED IN A FOREIGN CURRENCY
                           MAY NOT BE AN APPROPRIATE
                          INVESTMENT FOR ALL INVESTORS
 
     If you intend to invest in a note whose principal and/or interest is
payable in a currency other than U.S. dollars, you should consult your own
financial and legal advisors as to the currency risks entailed by your
investment. Notes of this kind are not an appropriate investment for investors
who are unsophisticated with respect to foreign currency transactions.
 
     The information in this prospectus is directed primarily to investors who
are U.S. residents. Investors who are not U.S. residents should consult their
own financial and legal advisors about currency-related risks particular to
their investment.
 
An Investment in a Non-Dollar Note Involves Currency-Related Risks
 
     An investment in a note with a specified currency other than U.S. dollars
entails significant risks that are not associated with a similar investment in a
note payable solely in U.S. dollars. These risks include the possibility of
significant changes in rates of exchange between the U.S. dollar and the various
foreign currencies or composite currencies and the possibility of the imposition
or modification of foreign exchange controls or other conditions by either the
U.S. or foreign governments. These risks generally depend on factors over which
we have no control, such as economic and political events and the supply of and
demand for the relevant currencies in the global markets.
 
Changes in Currency Exchange Rates Can Be Volatile and Unpredictable
 
     In recent years, rates of exchange between the U.S. dollar and many other
currencies have been highly volatile, and this volatility may be expected to
continue and perhaps spread to other currencies in the future. Fluctuations in
currency exchange rates could adversely affect an investment in a note with a
specified currency other than U.S. dollars. Depreciation of the specified
currency against the U.S. dollar could result in a decrease in the U.S.
dollar-equivalent value of payments on the note, including the princi-
 
                                       25
<PAGE>   52
 
pal payable at maturity. That in turn could cause the market value of the note
to fall. Depreciation of the specified currency against the U.S. dollar could
result in a loss to the investor on a U.S. dollar basis.
 
Government Policy Can Adversely Affect Currency Exchange Rates and an Investment
in a Non-Dollar Note
 
     Currency exchange rates can either float or be fixed by sovereign
governments. From time to time, governments use a variety of techniques, such as
intervention by a country's central bank or imposition of regulatory controls or
taxes, to affect the exchange rate of their currencies. Governments may also
issue a new currency to replace an existing currency or alter the exchange rate
or exchange characteristics by devaluation or revaluation of a currency. Thus, a
special risk in purchasing non-U.S. dollar-denominated notes is that their U.S.
dollar-equivalent yields or payouts could be significantly and unpredictably
affected by governmental actions. Even in the absence of governmental action
directly affecting currency exchange rates, political or economic developments
in the country issuing the specified currency for a non-dollar note or elsewhere
could lead to significant and sudden changes in the exchange rate between the
dollar and the specified currency. These changes could affect the U.S. dollar
equivalent value of the note as participants in the global currency markets move
to buy or sell the specified currency or U.S. dollars in reaction to these
developments.
 
     Governments have imposed from time to time and may in the future impose
exchange controls or other conditions with respect to the exchange or transfer
of a specified currency that could affect exchange rates as well as the
availability of a specified currency for a note at its maturity or on any other
payment date. In addition, the ability of a holder to move currency freely out
of the country in which payment in the currency is received or to convert the
currency at a freely determined market rate could be limited by governmental
actions.
 
Non-Dollar Notes Will Permit Us to Make Payments in Dollars If We Are Unable to
Obtain the Specified Currency
 
     Notes payable in a currency other than U.S. dollars will provide that, if
the other currency is not available to us at or about the time when a payment on
the notes comes due because of circumstances beyond our control, we will be
entitled to make the payment in U.S. dollars. These circumstances could include
the imposition of exchange controls or our inability to obtain the other
currency because of a disruption in the currency markets. If we made payment in
U.S. dollars, the exchange rate we would use would be based on the noon buying
rate in New York City for cable transfers of the other currency, as of whatever
date the exchange rate was then most recently available from the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York. The most recently available rate may be for a date
substantially before the payment date. As a result, the amount of dollars an
investor would receive on the payment date may not reflect currency market
conditions at the time of payment. We discuss these matters below under
"Description of Notes We May Offer -- Payment Mechanics".
 
We Will Not Adjust Non-Dollar Notes to Compensate for Changes in Currency
Exchange Rates
 
     Except as described above, we will not make any adjustment or change in the
terms of a note payable in a currency other than U.S. dollars in the event of
any change in exchange rates for that currency, whether in the event of any
devaluation, revaluation or imposition of exchange or other regulatory controls
or taxes or in the event of other developments affecting that currency, the U.S.
dollar or any other currency. Consequently, investors in non-dollar notes will
bear the risk that their investment may be adversely affected by these types of
events.
 
In a Lawsuit for Payment on a Non-Dollar Note, an Investor May Bear Currency
Exchange Risk
 
     Under Section 27 of the New York Judiciary Law, a state court in the State
of New York rendering a judgment on a note denominated in a currency other than
U.S. dollars
 
                                       26
<PAGE>   53
 
would be required to render the judgment in the specified currency; however, the
judgment would be converted into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate prevailing on
the date of entry of the judgment. Consequently, in a lawsuit for payment on a
note denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars, investors would bear
currency exchange risk until judgment is entered, which could be a long time.
 
     In courts outside of New York, investors may not be able to obtain judgment
in a specified currency other than U.S. dollars. For example, a judgment for
money in an action based on a non-dollar note in many other U.S. federal or
state courts ordinarily would be enforced in the United States only in U.S.
dollars. The date used to determine the rate of conversion of the currency in
which any particular note is denominated into U.S. dollars will depend upon
various factors, including which court renders the judgment.
 
Information About Exchange Rates May Not Be Indicative of Future Performance
 
     If we issue a note denominated in a specified currency other than U.S.
dollars, we may include in the applicable prospectus supplement a currency
supplement that provides information about historical exchange rates for the
specified currency. Any information about exchange rates that we may provide
will be furnished as a matter of information only and you should not regard the
information as indicative of the range of, or trends in, fluctuations in
currency exchange rates that may occur in the future. That rate will likely
differ from the exchange rate used under the terms that apply to a particular
note.
 
                                       27
<PAGE>   54
 
                                USE OF PROCEEDS
 
     We intend to use the net proceeds from the sales of notes to provide
additional funds for our operations and for other general corporate purposes,
although we have not yet determined a specific use. We are establishing our new
MTN program so that we will be able to raise funds for these purposes in the
U.S. public debt markets.
 
     We will receive the net proceeds only from sales of the notes made in
connection with their original issuance. We do not expect to receive any
proceeds from subsequent resales of notes by Goldman, Sachs & Co. or any of our
other affiliates in market-making transactions. We expect our affiliates to
retain the proceeds of their market-making resales and not pay them to us.
 
     We intend to use the net proceeds from our common stock offering to provide
additional funds for our operations and for other general corporate purposes,
although we have not yet determined a specific use. Pending specific application
of the net proceeds, we intend to use them to purchase short-term marketable
securities.
 
     We intend to use the net proceeds from our underwritten debt offerings to
provide additional funds for our operations and for other general corporate
purposes, including the repayment of short-term obligations and the portion of
long-term obligations coming due during the remainder of this calendar year.
Until we apply the proceeds to these uses, we expect to invest them in
short-term marketable securities.
 
                                       28
<PAGE>   55
 
                  PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
     The following Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information is based upon
the historical consolidated financial statements of Goldman Sachs. In addition
to our common stock offering, this information reflects the pro forma effects of
the following items:
 
- - the incorporation transactions and the related transactions described under
  "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions -- Incorporation and Related
  Transactions";
 
- - compensation to managing directors who were profit participating limited
  partners;
 
- - compensation in the form of restricted stock units awarded to employees in
  lieu of ongoing cash compensation;
 
- - the provision for corporate income taxes;
 
- - the redemption of our senior limited partnership interests;
 
- - cash distributions by The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. to its partners in the
  second quarter of fiscal 1999 in accordance with its partnership agreement,
  including distributions for partner income taxes related to earnings in the
  first quarter of fiscal 1999, capital withdrawals by the managing directors
  who were profit participating limited partners, Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets,
  Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association and distributions to satisfy
  obligations to retired limited partners; and
 
- - the recognition of net tax assets.
 
These items are collectively referred to as the "Pro Forma Adjustments".
 
     The Pro Forma Consolidated Income Statement Information does not give
effect to the following items because of their non-recurring nature:
 
- - the restricted stock units awarded to employees based on a formula;
 
- - the initial irrevocable contribution of shares of common stock to the defined
  contribution plan;
 
- - the recognition of net tax assets; and
 
- - a contribution to the Goldman Sachs Fund, a charitable foundation.
 
     The Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet Information, however, does give
effect to these non-recurring items.
 
     This Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information, including the pro forma
ratio of earnings to fixed charges, does not give effect to this offering or our
underwritten debt offerings.
 
     The Pro Forma Adjustments are based upon available information and certain
assumptions that management believes are reasonable. The Pro Forma Consolidated
Financial Information and accompanying notes should be read in conjunction with
the consolidated financial statements and their notes.
 
     THE PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION PRESENTED IS NOT
NECESSARILY INDICATIVE OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR FINANCIAL POSITION THAT
MIGHT HAVE OCCURRED HAD THE PRO FORMA ADJUSTMENTS ACTUALLY TAKEN PLACE AS OF THE
DATES SPECIFIED, OR THAT MAY BE EXPECTED TO OCCUR IN THE FUTURE.
 
                                       29
<PAGE>   56
 
              PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
                                  (unaudited)
                      (in millions, except per share data)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 27, 1998
                                       -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                        PRO FORMA
                                                                                      ADJUSTMENT       AS ADJUSTED
                                                      PRO FORMA                     FOR OUR COMMON    FOR OUR COMMON
                                       HISTORICAL    ADJUSTMENTS     PRO FORMA      STOCK OFFERING    STOCK OFFERING
                                       ----------    -----------    ------------    --------------    --------------
<S>                                    <C>           <C>            <C>             <C>               <C>
Total revenues.......................   $22,478        $    --        $22,478           $  --            $22,478
Interest expense, principally on
  short-term funding.................    13,958             28(a)      13,986              --             13,986
                                        -------        -------        -------           -----            -------
Revenues, net of interest expense....     8,520            (28)         8,492              --              8,492
Compensation and benefits, excluding
  employee initial public offering
  awards.............................     3,838            303(b)       4,141              --              4,141
Employee initial public offering
  awards.............................        --            461(c)         461              --                461
Other operating expenses.............     1,761             --          1,761              --              1,761
                                        -------        -------        -------           -----            -------
Total operating expenses.............     5,599            764          6,363              --              6,363
Pre-tax earnings.....................     2,921           (792)         2,129              --              2,129
Provision for taxes..................       493            380(d)         873              --                873
                                        -------        -------        -------           -----            -------
Net earnings.........................   $ 2,428        $(1,172)       $ 1,256           $  --            $ 1,256
                                        =======        =======        =======           =====            =======
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges...      1.21x                         1.15x                              1.15x

Shares outstanding:
  Basic..............................                                     424(e)           51(f)             475
  Diluted............................                                     428(e)           51(f)             479

Earnings per share:
  Basic..............................                                 $  2.96                            $  2.65
  Diluted............................                                    2.93                               2.62
</TABLE>
 
              PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
                                  (unaudited)
                      (in millions, except per share data)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           THREE MONTHS ENDED FEBRUARY 26, 1999
                                       -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                        PRO FORMA
                                                                                      ADJUSTMENT       AS ADJUSTED
                                                      PRO FORMA                     FOR OUR COMMON    FOR OUR COMMON
                                       HISTORICAL    ADJUSTMENTS     PRO FORMA      STOCK OFFERING    STOCK OFFERING
                                       ----------    -----------    ------------    --------------    --------------
<S>                                    <C>           <C>            <C>             <C>               <C>
Total revenues.......................   $ 5,856        $    --        $ 5,856           $  --            $ 5,856
Interest expense, principally on
  short-term funding.................     2,861              7(a)       2,868              --              2,868
                                        -------        -------        -------           -----            -------
Revenues, net of interest expense....     2,995             (7)         2,988              --              2,988
Compensation and benefits, excluding
  employee initial public offering
  awards.............................     1,275            191(b)       1,466              --              1,466
Employee initial public offering
  awards.............................        --            115(c)         115              --                115
Other operating expenses.............       532             --            532              --                532
                                        -------        -------        -------           -----            -------
Total operating expenses.............     1,807            306          2,113              --              2,113
Pre-tax earnings.....................     1,188           (313)           875              --                875
Provision for taxes..................       181            178(d)         359              --                359
                                        -------        -------        -------           -----            -------
Net earnings.........................   $ 1,007        $  (491)       $   516           $  --            $   516
                                        =======        =======        =======           =====            =======
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges...      1.41x                         1.30x                              1.30x

Shares outstanding:
  Basic..............................                                     427(e)           51(f)             478
  Diluted............................                                     437(e)           51(f)             488

Earnings per share:
  Basic..............................                                 $  1.21                            $  1.08
  Diluted............................                                    1.18                               1.06
</TABLE>
 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Pro Forma Consolidated
                             Financial Information.
                                       30
<PAGE>   57
 
                PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION
                                  (unaudited)
                      (in millions, except per share data)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  AS OF FEBRUARY 26, 1999
                                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                       PRO FORMA
                                                                                     ADJUSTMENT       AS ADJUSTED
                                                        PRO FORMA                  FOR OUR COMMON    FOR OUR COMMON
                                         HISTORICAL    ADJUSTMENTS    PRO FORMA    STOCK OFFERING    STOCK OFFERING
                                         ----------    -----------    ---------    --------------    --------------
<S>                                      <C>           <C>            <C>          <C>               <C>
Cash and cash equivalents..............   $  3,345       $  (200)(g)  $    134         $2,568(f)        $  2,702
                                                            (891)(h)
                                                            (888)(i)
                                                          (1,232)(k)
Other..................................    227,279         1,815(l)    229,094             --            229,094
                                          --------       -------      --------         ------           --------
Total assets...........................   $230,624       $(1,396)     $229,228         $2,568           $231,796
                                          ========       =======      ========         ======           ========
 
Long-term borrowings...................   $ 20,405       $   371(a)   $ 20,776         $   --           $ 20,776
Other..................................    203,228           165(b)    203,393             --            203,393
                                          --------       -------      --------         ------           --------
Total liabilities......................    223,633           536       224,169             --            224,169

Partners' capital, partners' capital
  allocated for income taxes and
  potential withdrawals, and
  accumulated other comprehensive
  income...............................      6,991          (371)(a)
                                                            (891)(h)
                                                            (888)(i)
                                                          (3,609)(j)
                                                          (1,232)(k)
                                          --------       -------      --------         ------           --------
Total partnership capital..............      6,991        (6,991)           --             --                 --
Common stock and nonvoting common
  stock, par value $0.01 per share.....         --             4(j)          4             --                  4
Restricted stock units.................         --         3,356(m)      3,356             --              3,356
Additional paid-in capital.............         --         3,605(j)      4,271          2,568(f)           6,839
                                                             666(m)
Retained earnings......................         --          (165)(b)      (807)            --               (807)
                                                            (200)(g)
                                                           1,815(l)
                                                          (2,257)(m)
Unearned compensation..................         --        (1,765)(m)    (1,765)            --             (1,765)
                                          --------       -------      --------         ------           --------
Total stockholders' equity.............         --         5,059         5,059          2,568              7,627
Total liabilities, partnership capital
  and stockholders' equity.............   $230,624       $(1,396)     $229,228         $2,568           $231,796
                                          ========       =======      ========         ======           ========
 
Book value per share...................                               $  11.94                          $  16.07
</TABLE>
 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Pro Forma Consolidated
                             Financial Information.
                                       31
<PAGE>   58
 
             NOTES TO PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
NOTE 1: BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
     As permitted by the rules and regulations of the SEC, the Pro Forma
Consolidated Financial Information is presented on a condensed basis. The Pro
Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet Information was prepared as if the Pro Forma
Adjustments had occurred as of February 26, 1999. Book value per share equals
stockholders' equity divided by the shares of common stock and nonvoting common
stock outstanding, including the shares of common stock underlying the
restricted stock units awarded to employees based on a formula, of 423,712,271
prior to our common stock offering and 474,712,271 as adjusted for our common
stock offering. Our nonvoting common stock has no voting rights (except as
required by law) but otherwise has the same rights and privileges, including
dividend rights, as the common stock. See Note 2(e) below for a further
discussion of shares outstanding.
 
     The Pro Forma Consolidated Income Statement Information for the fiscal year
ended November 27, 1998 and the three-month fiscal period ended February 26,
1999 was prepared as if the Pro Forma Adjustments had taken place at the
beginning of fiscal 1998.
 
     For pro forma purposes, our common stock offering and, where applicable,
the related transactions reflect the initial public offering price of $53.00 per
share.
 
     For purposes of the pro forma ratio of earnings to fixed charges,
"earnings" represent pre-tax earnings plus fixed charges and "fixed charges"
represent interest expense plus that portion of rent expense that, in our
opinion, approximates the interest factor included in rent expense. Neither the
pro forma ratio of earnings to fixed charges nor the historical ratio of
earnings to fixed charges gives effect to this offering of notes, our dollar
debt offering or our euro debt offering.
 
NOTE 2: PRO FORMA ADJUSTMENTS AND ADJUSTMENT FOR OUR COMMON STOCK OFFERING
 
     (a) RETIRED LIMITED PARTNERS EXCHANGE OF INTERESTS FOR
DEBENTURES.  Adjustment to reflect the issuance of junior subordinated
debentures to the retired limited partners in exchange for their interests in
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and certain affiliates. These junior subordinated
debentures have a principal amount of $295 million, an initial carrying value of
$371 million and an effective interest rate of 7.5%. The annual interest expense
to be recorded on these debentures in the first year will be $28 million.
 
     (b) COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS, EXCLUDING EMPLOYEE INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING
AWARDS. Since Goldman Sachs has operated as a partnership, there is no
meaningful historical measure of the compensation and benefits that would have
been paid, in corporate form, to the managing directors who were profit
participating limited partners for services rendered in fiscal 1998 and in the
three months ended February 26, 1999. Accordingly, management has estimated
these amounts, which are substantially performance-based, by reference to a pro
forma ratio of total compensation and benefits to net revenues that it deemed
appropriate for Goldman Sachs as a whole, given the historical operating results
in these periods. As a result, additional compensation and benefits expense
related to the managing directors who were profit participating limited partners
of $427 million in fiscal 1998 and $242 million in the three months ended
February 26, 1999 has been recorded on the Pro Forma Consolidated Income
Statement Information.
 
     The future compensation and benefits related to services rendered by the
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners will be based
upon measures of financial performance, including net revenues, pre-tax earnings
and the ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues, as described under
"Management -- The Partner Compensation Plan -- Determination of Salary and
Bonus". Management anticipates that, consistent with industry practice, it will
adjust the form and structure of its compensation
 
                                       32
<PAGE>   59
      NOTES TO PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION -- (CONTINUED)
 
arrangements to achieve a relationship of compensation and benefits to net
revenues within a range that it believes is appropriate given prevailing market
conditions.
 
     In addition to the employee initial public offering awards, restricted
stock units will also be granted to employees in lieu of a portion of ongoing
cash compensation. Of the total restricted stock units assumed to be granted in
lieu of cash compensation, 50% will require future service as a condition to the
delivery of the underlying shares of common stock. In accordance with Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, the restricted stock units with future service
requirements will be recorded as compensation expense over the four-year service
period following the date of grant. Goldman Sachs expects to record this expense
over the service period as follows: 52%, 28%, 14% and 6% in years one, two,
three and four, respectively. If these stock-based awards had been made from the
beginning of fiscal 1998, historical compensation expense would have been
reduced by $124 million in fiscal 1998 and $51 million in the three months ended
February 26, 1999 because a portion of cash compensation recorded in these
periods would have been replaced by restricted stock units with future service
requirements. These reductions are reflected in the Pro Forma Consolidated
Income Statement Information.
 
     The adjustment of $165 million to the Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet
Information reflects the additional compensation and benefits that we would have
recorded assuming the Pro Forma Adjustments had occurred as of February 26,
1999. This adjustment includes $232 million in compensation and benefits related
to the managing directors who were profit participating limited partners offset
by a reduction of $67 million related to the issuance of restricted stock units
to employees, in lieu of a portion of cash compensation, for which future
service is required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying shares of
common stock. This adjustment to the Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet
Information excludes the expense of $26 million in the first quarter of fiscal
1999 related to the portion of restricted stock units that, for pro forma income
statement purposes only, were assumed to be awarded in fiscal 1998. See
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Results of Operations -- Operating Expenses" for a discussion of
the actual expense we expect to record in the second quarter of fiscal 1999.
 
     (c) EXPENSE RELATED TO EMPLOYEE INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING AWARDS.  Adjustment
to reflect the amortization of the 33,292,869 restricted stock units awarded to
employees on a discretionary basis. On the date of grant, these restricted stock
units had a value of $1,765 million, approximately 26% of which will be
amortized as a non-cash expense in the twelve months following the date of
grant. The remaining 74% of the value of these restricted stock units will be
amortized over the next four years as follows: 26%, 26%, 15% and 7% in years
two, three, four and five, respectively.
 
     The options to purchase 40,127,592 shares of common stock awarded to
employees on a discretionary basis will be accounted for pursuant to Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, as permitted by paragraph 5 of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123. Since these options had no intrinsic
value on the date of grant, no compensation expense will be recognized.
 
     The estimated fair value of these discretionary options on the date of
grant was $709 million using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. If Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 had been applied, compensation expense
of $185 million and $46 million would have been included in the Pro Forma
Consolidated Income Statement Information in fiscal 1998 and the three months
ended February 26, 1999, respectively. See "Management -- The Employee Initial
Public Offering Awards" for a description of these awards.
 
     (d) PRO FORMA PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES.  Adjustment to reflect a pro
forma provision for income taxes for Goldman
                                       33
<PAGE>   60
      NOTES TO PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION -- (CONTINUED)
 
Sachs in corporate form at an effective tax rate of 41%.
 
     (e) PRO FORMA COMMON STOCK AND NON-VOTING COMMON STOCK.  Shares
outstanding, computed on a weighted-average basis, after giving effect to the
Pro Forma Adjustments. For the purpose of calculating basic earnings per share
and book value per share, shares outstanding prior to our common stock offering
includes the nonvoting common stock, the shares of common stock irrevocably
contributed to the defined contribution plan and, pursuant to Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, the shares of common stock underlying
the restricted stock units awarded to employees on a discretionary basis since
future service is not required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying
shares of common stock.
 
     With respect to the three months ended February 26, 1999, pro forma basic
common shares outstanding also includes the shares of common stock underlying
the restricted stock units assumed to be awarded in lieu of ongoing cash
compensation in fiscal 1998 for which future service would not have been
required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying shares of common
stock.
 
     Pro forma diluted shares outstanding prior to our common stock offering
reflects the dilutive effect of the common stock deliverable pursuant to the
restricted stock units awarded to employees on a discretionary basis and, with
respect to the three months ended February 26, 1999, the dilutive effect of the
shares of common stock underlying the restricted stock units assumed to be
awarded in lieu of ongoing cash compensation in fiscal 1998 for which future
service would have been required as a condition to the delivery of the
underlying shares of common stock.
 
     (f) ADJUSTMENT FOR OUR COMMON STOCK OFFERING.  Shares as adjusted to
reflect the issuance of 51,000,000 shares of common stock offered by The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. in our common stock offering, which reflects the exercise, in
full, of the underwriters' options to purchase 9,000,000 shares of common stock.
Net proceeds from our common stock offering reflect the deduction of
underwriting discounts and of estimated expenses payable by Goldman Sachs in
connection with our common stock offering.
 
     (g) CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTION.  Adjustment to reflect the charitable
contribution of $200 million.
 
     (h) RETIRED LIMITED PARTNER EXCHANGES OF INTERESTS FOR CASH.  Adjustment to
reflect the payment of $891 million in cash to the retired limited partners in
exchange for their interests in The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and certain
affiliates.
 
     (i) REDEMPTION OF SENIOR LIMITED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS FOR
CASH.  Adjustment to reflect the redemption of the senior limited partnership
interests for cash of $888 million by The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. prior to the
incorporation transactions described under "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions -- Incorporation and Related Transactions -- Incorporation
Transactions".
 
     (j) PARTNER EXCHANGES OF INTERESTS FOR SHARES.  Adjustment of $3,609
million to reflect the issuance of 265,019,073 shares of common stock to the
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners, 47,270,551
shares of common stock to retired limited partners, 30,425,052 shares of common
stock and 7,440,362 shares of nonvoting common stock to Sumitomo Bank Capital
Markets, Inc. and 30,975,421 shares of common stock to Kamehameha Activities
Association, in exchange for their respective interests in The Goldman Sachs
Group, L.P. and certain affiliates.
 
     (k) CASH DISTRIBUTIONS.  Adjustment to reflect cash distributions of $1,232
million by The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. to its partners, including Sumitomo
Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association, in the second
quarter of fiscal 1999 in accordance with its partnership agreement, including
distributions for partner income taxes related to earnings in the first quarter
of fiscal 1999, capital withdrawals by the managing directors who were profit
participating limited partners, Sumitomo Bank
                                       34
<PAGE>   61
      NOTES TO PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION -- (CONTINUED)
 
Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association and distributions to
satisfy obligations to certain retired limited partners.
 
     Goldman Sachs made additional cash distributions for partner income taxes
related to earnings in the second quarter of fiscal 1999 that were significant
due, in part, to certain expenses that were not deductible by the partners.
Goldman Sachs recognized a substantial tax asset on the consummation of our
common stock offering related to these expenses. These cash distributions and
the related tax asset are not reflected in the Pro Forma Consolidated Balance
Sheet Information.
 
     (l) NET TAX ASSETS.  Adjustment to reflect the addition to retained
earnings related to the recognition of a net tax asset of $1,815 million under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 at an effective tax rate of
41%. The components of this net tax asset, which will be included in "Other
assets" on the consolidated statement of financial condition, are (i) a net
benefit of $808 million related to the conversion of The Goldman Sachs Group,
L.P. to corporate form, (ii) a benefit of $925 million related to the 30,025,946
restricted stock units awarded to employees based on a formula and the initial
irrevocable contribution of 12,555,866 shares of common stock to the defined
contribution plan and (iii) a benefit of $82 million related to the charitable
contribution.
 
     As discussed in Note 2(k) above, Goldman Sachs recognized a substantial tax
asset on the consummation of our common stock offering related to certain
expenses that were not deductible by the partners in fiscal 1999. The tax asset
associated with these expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 1999 is not
reflected in the Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet Information.
 
     (m) EFFECT ON STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY OF EMPLOYEE INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING
AWARDS.  Adjustment to reflect the effect on the components of stockholders'
equity, excluding the tax benefit described in Note 2(l), of (i) the restricted
stock units awarded to employees based on a formula, (ii) the initial
irrevocable contribution of shares of common stock to the defined contribution
plan and (iii) the restricted stock units awarded to employees on a
discretionary basis.
 
     The following table sets forth each of these components as of February 26,
1999:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          COMMON STOCK                  ADDITIONAL
                                          AND NONVOTING   RESTRICTED     PAID-IN     RETAINED     UNEARNED
                                          COMMON STOCK    STOCK UNITS    CAPITAL     EARNINGS   COMPENSATION
                                          -------------   -----------   ----------   --------   ------------
                                                                    (in millions)
<S>                                       <C>             <C>           <C>          <C>        <C>
 
Restricted stock units awarded based on
  a formula.............................       $--          $1,591         $ --      $(1,591)     $    --
Contribution of shares of common stock
  to the defined contribution plan......        --              --          666         (666)          --
Restricted stock units awarded on a
  discretionary basis...................        --           1,765           --           --       (1,765)
                                               ---          ------         ----      -------      -------
Total Adjustment........................       $--          $3,356         $666      $(2,257)     $(1,765)
                                               ===          ======         ====      =======      =======
</TABLE>
 
                                       35
<PAGE>   62
 
                                 CAPITALIZATION
 
     The following table sets forth the consolidated capitalization of Goldman
Sachs as of February 26, 1999 on an historical basis, and on a pro forma basis
after giving effect to the Pro Forma Adjustments, described under "Pro Forma
Consolidated Financial Information", and as further adjusted for:
 
- - the sale of 51,000,000 shares of common stock by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
  in our common stock offering the initial public offering price of $53.00 per
  share, after deduction of the underwriting discounts and estimated expenses
  payable by Goldman Sachs in our common stock offering; and
   
- - the issuance of the equivalent of approximately $2.879 billion aggregate
  principal amount of our debt securities in our underwritten debt offerings.
    
     The table below does not give effect to this medium-term note program.
     This table should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and their notes and the Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information
and their notes.
 
   
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          AS OF FEBRUARY 26, 1999
                                                              ------------------------------------------------
                                                                                              PRO FORMA AS
                                                                                                ADJUSTED
                                                                                             FOR OUR COMMON
                                                                                                 STOCK
                                                                                            OFFERING AND OUR
                                                                                           UNDERWRITTEN DEBT
                                                              HISTORICAL    PRO FORMA          OFFERINGS
                                                              ----------    ---------      -----------------
                                                                              ($ in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>            <C>
Short-term borrowings (including commercial paper)(1).......   $33,863       $33,863            $ 33,863
                                                               =======       =======            ========
Long-term borrowings:
  Senior debt, other than the Medium-Term Notes, Series
    B(2)....................................................   $20,405       $20,405            $ 23,284
  Junior subordinated debentures(3).........................        --           371                 371
                                                               -------       -------            --------
         Total long-term borrowings.........................    20,405        20,776              23,655
Partners' capital...........................................     6,612            --                  --
Stockholders' equity:
  Preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share; 150,000,000
    shares authorized, no shares issued and outstanding.....        --            --                  --
  Common stock, par value $0.01 per share; 4,000,000,000
    shares authorized, 437,245,963 shares issued and
    outstanding(4)..........................................        --             4                   4
  Restricted stock units; 63,318,815 units issued and
    outstanding(5)..........................................        --         3,356               3,356
  Nonvoting common stock, par value $0.01 per share;
    200,000,000 shares authorized and 7,440,362 shares
    issued and outstanding..................................        --             0                   0
  Additional paid-in capital................................        --         4,271               6,839
  Retained earnings.........................................        --          (807)               (807)
  Unearned compensation(6)..................................                  (1,765)             (1,765)
                                                               -------       -------            --------
         Total stockholders' equity.........................        --         5,059               7,627
                                                               -------       -------            --------
           Total capitalization.............................   $27,017       $25,835            $ 31,282
                                                               =======       =======            ========
</TABLE>
    
 
- ---------------
 
(1) Includes current portion of long-term borrowings of $6,285 million. See Note
    4 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as of
    February 26, 1999 for further information regarding Goldman Sachs'
    short-term borrowings.
(2) Includes debt securities we expect to issue in our underwritten debt
    offerings. To obtain the dollar equivalent of the E1.0 billion principal
    amount of euro debt securities we expect to issue, euros have been converted
    to dollars at the rate of $1.0787 for E1.00, the noon buying rate for cable
    transfers in New York City on May 10, 1999. Also includes subordinated debt
    of Goldman, Sachs & Co. of $275 million.
(3) Consists of junior subordinated debentures issued to the retired limited
    partners as part of the incorporation transactions. See "Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions -- Incorporation and Related
    Transactions" for further information regarding the issuance of the
    debentures.
 
                                         (Footnotes continued on following page)
 
                                       36
<PAGE>   63
 
(4) Common stock outstanding includes 12,555,866 shares of common stock
    irrevocably contributed to the defined contribution plan. Common stock
    outstanding excludes 40,127,592 shares of common stock deliverable pursuant
    to the options awarded to employees on a discretionary basis. See
    "Management -- The Employee Initial Public Offering Awards" for more
    detailed information regarding these awards.
(5) Restricted stock units include 30,025,946 shares of common stock underlying
    the restricted stock units awarded to employees based on a formula and
    33,292,869 shares of common stock underlying the restricted stock units
    awarded on a discretionary basis.
(6) Unearned compensation relates to the award of the restricted stock units
    awarded on a discretionary basis.
 
                                       37
<PAGE>   64
 
                      SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The selected historical consolidated income statement and balance sheet
data set forth below have been derived from Goldman Sachs' consolidated
financial statements and their notes. Goldman Sachs' consolidated financial
statements have been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent public
accountants, as of November 28, 1997 and November 27, 1998 and for the years
ended November 29, 1996, November 28, 1997 and November 27, 1998. Goldman Sachs'
condensed consolidated financial statements have been reviewed by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as of February 26, 1999 and for the three months
ended February 27, 1998 and February 26, 1999. These financial statements are
included elsewhere in this prospectus, together with the reports thereon of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
 
     The selected historical consolidated income statement and balance sheet
data set forth below as of November 25, 1994, November 24, 1995 and November 29,
1996 and for the years ended November 25, 1994 and November 24, 1995 have been
derived from audited consolidated financial statements of Goldman Sachs not
included in this prospectus.
 
     The selected historical consolidated income statement and balance sheet
data set forth below as of and for the three months ended February 26, 1999 and
for the three months ended February 27, 1998 have been derived from Goldman
Sachs' unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements that, in the
opinion of management, include all adjustments, consisting only of normal
recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation. The interim results
set forth below for the three months ended February 26, 1999 may not be
indicative of results for the full year.
 
     The pro forma data set forth below for the year ended November 27, 1998 and
as of and for the three months ended February 26, 1999 have been derived from
the pro forma data set forth in "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information"
included elsewhere in this prospectus.
 
     The selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations", "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information" and the consolidated
financial statements and their notes.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                             AS OF OR FOR
                                                                                                             THREE MONTHS
                                                             AS OF OR FOR YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER               ENDED FEBRUARY
                                                    ---------------------------------------------------   -------------------
                                                     1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       1998       1999
                                                     ----       ----       ----       ----       ----       ----       ----
                                                                                                              (unaudited)
                                                                                 ($ in millions)
<S>                                                 <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
INCOME STATEMENT DATA:
  Total revenues..................................  $12,452   $ 14,324   $ 17,289   $ 20,433   $ 22,478   $  5,903   $  5,856
  Interest expense................................    8,915      9,841     11,160     12,986     13,958      3,431      2,861
                                                    -------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
  Net revenues....................................    3,537      4,483      6,129      7,447      8,520      2,472      2,995
  Compensation and benefits(1)....................    1,789      2,005      2,421      3,097      3,838      1,100      1,275
  Other operating expenses........................    1,240      1,110      1,102      1,336      1,761        350        532
                                                    -------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
  Pre-tax earnings(1).............................  $   508   $  1,368   $  2,606   $  3,014   $  2,921   $  1,022   $  1,188
                                                    =======   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
BALANCE SHEET DATA:
  Total assets(2).................................  $95,296   $100,066   $152,046   $178,401   $217,380         --   $230,624
  Long-term borrowings............................   14,418     13,358     12,376     15,667     19,906         --     20,405
  Total liabilities(2)............................   89,981     94,686    145,753    171,864    210,996         --    223,633
  Partners' capital...............................    4,771      4,905      5,309      6,107      6,310         --      6,612

PRO FORMA DATA (UNAUDITED)(3):
  Pro forma net earnings..........................       --         --         --         --   $  1,256         --   $    516
  Pro forma ratio of earnings to fixed
    charges(4)....................................       --         --         --         --      1.15x         --      1.30x
  Pro forma stockholders' equity as adjusted for
    our common stock offering.....................       --         --         --         --         --         --   $  7,627
</TABLE>
 
                                       38
<PAGE>   65
 
                      SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                             AS OF OR FOR
                                                                                                             THREE MONTHS
                                                             AS OF OR FOR YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER               ENDED FEBRUARY
                                                    ---------------------------------------------------   -------------------
                                                     1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       1998       1999
                                                     ----       ----       ----       ----       ----       ----       ----
                                                                                 ($ in millions)
<S>                                                 <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
SELECTED DATA AND RATIOS (UNAUDITED):
  Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(1)(4)........     1.06x      1.14x      1.23x      1.23x      1.21x      1.30x      1.41x

  Employees:
    United States.................................    5,822      5,356      5,818      6,879      8,349      7,008      8,244
    International.................................    3,176      2,803      3,159      3,743      4,684      3,891      4,634
                                                    -------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
  Total employees(5)..............................    8,998      8,159      8,977     10,622     13,033     10,899     12,878
                                                    =======   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
  Assets under supervision:
    Assets under management.......................  $43,671   $ 52,358   $ 94,599   $135,929   $194,821   $151,189   $206,380
    Other client assets...........................   49,061     57,716     76,892    102,033    142,018    114,928    163,315
                                                    -------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
  Total assets under supervision..................  $92,732   $110,074   $171,491   $237,962   $336,839   $266,117   $369,695
                                                    =======   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Since we historically operated in partnership form, payments to our profit
    participating limited partners were accounted for as distributions of
    partners' capital rather than as compensation expense. As a result, our pre-
    tax earnings and compensation and benefits expense have not reflected any
    payments for services rendered by our managing directors who were profit
    participating limited partners. Accordingly, our historical pre-tax earnings
    understate the expected operating costs to be incurred by us after our
    conversion to corporate form. As a corporation, we will include payments for
    services rendered by our managing directors who were profit participating
    limited partners in compensation and benefits expense. For financial
    information that reflects pro forma compensation and benefits expense as if
    we had been a corporation, see "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
    Information".
 
(2) Total assets and liabilities were increased by $11.64 billion as of November
    27, 1998 and $8.99 billion as of February 26, 1999 due to the adoption of
    the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125 that
    were deferred by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 127. For a
    discussion of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Nos. 125 and 127,
    see "Accounting Developments" in Note 2 to the audited consolidated
    financial statements.
 
(3) Reflects such adjustments as are necessary, in the opinion of management,
    for a fair presentation of the results of operations and stockholders'
    equity of Goldman Sachs on a pro forma basis. See "Pro Forma Consolidated
    Financial Information" for more detailed information concerning these
    adjustments.
 
(4) For purposes of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, "earnings" represent
    pre-tax earnings plus fixed charges and "fixed charges" represent interest
    expense plus that portion of rent expense that, in our opinion, approximates
    the interest factor included in rent expense. Neither the pro forma ratio of
    earnings to fixed charges nor the historical ratio of earnings to fixed
    charges gives effect to this offering of notes or our underwritten debt
    offerings.
 
(5) Excludes employees of Goldman Sachs' two property management subsidiaries,
    The Archon Group, L.P. and Archon Group (France) S.C.A. Substantially all of
    the costs of these employees are reimbursed to Goldman Sachs by the real
    estate investment funds to which the two companies provide property
    management services. In addition, as of February 26, 1999, we had 3,400
    temporary staff and consultants. For more detailed information regarding our
    employees, see "Business -- Employees".
 
                                       39
<PAGE>   66
 
        MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
                             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     Goldman Sachs is a global investment banking and securities firm that
provides a wide range of services worldwide to a substantial and diversified
client base.
 
     Our activities are divided into three principal business lines:
 
- - Investment Banking, which includes financial advisory services and
  underwriting;
 
- - Trading and Principal Investments, which includes fixed income, currency and
  commodities ("FICC"), equities and principal investments (principal
  investments reflect primarily our investments in our merchant banking funds);
  and
 
- - Asset Management and Securities Services, which includes asset management,
  securities services and commissions.
 
     All references to 1996, 1997 and 1998 refer to our fiscal year ended, or
the date, as the context requires, November 29, 1996, November 28, 1997 and
November 27, 1998, respectively, and all references to February 1998 and
February 1999 refer to our three-month fiscal period ended, or the date, as the
context requires, February 27, 1998 and February 26, 1999, respectively.
 
     When we use the terms "Goldman Sachs", "we" and "our", we mean, prior to
the principal incorporation transactions that are described under "Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions -- Incorporation and Related
Transactions -- Incorporation Transactions", The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., a
Delaware limited partnership, and its consolidated subsidiaries and, after the
incorporation transactions, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
 
                              BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
 
     Economic and market conditions can significantly affect our performance.
For a number of years leading up to the second half of 1998, we operated in a
generally favorable macroeconomic environment characterized by low inflation,
low interest rates and strong equity markets in the United States and many
international markets. This favorable economic environment provided a positive
climate for our investment banking activities, as well as for our
customer-driven and proprietary trading activities. Economic conditions were
also favorable for wealth creation which contributed positively to growth in our
asset management businesses.
 
     From mid-August to mid-October 1998, the Russian economic crisis, the
turmoil in Asian and Latin American emerging markets and the resulting move to
higher credit quality fixed income securities by many investors led to
substantial declines in global financial markets. Investors broadly sold
credit-sensitive products, such as corporate and high-yield debt, and bought
higher-rated instruments, such as U.S. Treasury securities, which caused credit
spreads to widen dramatically. This market turmoil also caused a widespread
decline in global equity markets.
 
     As a major dealer in fixed income securities, Goldman Sachs maintains
substantial inventories of corporate and high-yield debt. Goldman Sachs
regularly seeks to hedge the interest rate risk on these positions through,
among other strategies, short positions in U.S. Treasury securities. In the
second half of 1998, we suffered losses from both the decline in the prices of
corporate and high-yield debt instruments that we owned and the increase in the
prices of the U.S. Treasury securities in which we had short positions.
 
     This market turmoil also led to trading losses in our fixed income relative
value trading positions. Relative value trading positions are intended to profit
from a perceived temporary dislocation in the relationship between the values of
different financial instruments. From mid-August to mid-October 1998, the
components of these relative value positions moved in directions that we did not
anticipate and the volatilities of some of our positions increased to three
times prior levels. When Goldman Sachs and other market participants with
similar positions simultaneously sought to reduce positions and exposures, this
caused a substantial reduction in market liquidity and a continuing decline in
prices.
                                       40
<PAGE>   67
 
     In the second half of 1998, we also experienced losses in equity arbitrage
and in the value of a number of merchant banking investments.
 
     Later in the fourth quarter of 1998, market conditions improved as the U.S.
Federal Reserve cut interest rates, the International Monetary Fund finalized a
credit agreement with Brazil and a consortium of 14 financial institutions,
including Goldman Sachs, recapitalized Long-Term Capital Portfolio, L.P. For a
further discussion of Long-Term Capital Portfolio, L.P., see
"-- Liquidity -- The Balance Sheet" below.
 
     Our earnings in the second half of 1998 were adversely affected by market
conditions from mid-August to mid-October. In this difficult business
environment, Trading and Principal Investments recorded net revenues of $464
million in the third quarter of 1998 and net revenues of negative $663 million
in the fourth quarter of 1998. As a result, Trading and Principal Investments
did not make a significant contribution to pre-tax earnings in 1998.
 
     In the first quarter of 1999, we operated in a generally favorable
macroeconomic environment characterized by low inflation and low interest rates.
Global financial markets recovered from the turbulent conditions of the second
half of 1998, leading to narrowing credit spreads and an increase in mergers and
acquisitions and other corporate activity.
 
     The macroeconomic environment in the first quarter of 1999 was particularly
favorable in the United States, where inflationary pressures were minimal and
interest rates were left unchanged by the U.S. Federal Reserve. Economic growth
in Europe was sluggish despite a simultaneous cut in interest rates by 11
European central banks in December and the successful establishment of the
European Economic and Monetary Union in January. Markets in Asia and Latin
America were generally characterized by continuing economic and financial
difficulties, particularly in Japan and Brazil. In a number of Asian emerging
markets, however, economic and market conditions stabilized in the first quarter
of 1999.
 
                             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     Management believes that the best measure by which to assess Goldman Sachs'
historical profitability is pre-tax earnings because, as a partnership, we
generally were not subject to U.S. federal or state income taxes. See
"-- Provision for Taxes" below and Note 2 to the audited consolidated financial
statements for a further discussion of our provision for taxes.
 
     Since historically we operated as a partnership, payments to our profit
participating limited partners were accounted for as distributions of partners'
capital rather than as compensation expense. As a result, our compensation and
benefits expense has not reflected any payments for services rendered by
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners and has
therefore understated the expected operating costs to be incurred by us after
our conversion to corporate form. As a corporation, we will include these
payments to managing directors who were profit participating limited partners in
compensation and benefits expense, as discussed under "Pro Forma Consolidated
Financial Information". See "Management -- The Partner Compensation Plan" for a
further discussion of the plan to be adopted for the purpose of compensating our
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners.
 
     Moreover, in connection with our common stock offering, we recognized the
effect of the following non-recurring items in the second quarter of 1999:
 
- - the award of the restricted stock units to employees based on a formula;
 
- - the initial irrevocable contribution of shares of common stock to the defined
  contribution plan;
 
- - the net tax assets; and
 
- - the contribution to the Goldman Sachs Fund, a charitable foundation.
 
We also expect to record additional expense in the second quarter of 1999 equal
to (i) 50% of the estimated compensation and benefits of the managing directors
who were profit participating limited partners in 1999 based on the annualized
results for the first
 
                                       41
<PAGE>   68
 
half of 1999 offset by (ii) the effect of issuing restricted stock units to
employees in lieu of cash compensation, for which future service is required as
a condition to the delivery of the underlying shares of common stock. In
accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, these restricted
stock units will be recorded as compensation expense over the four-year vesting
period following the date of grant. As a result, we expect to record a
substantial pre-tax loss in the second quarter of 1999.
 
     The composition of our historical net revenues has varied over time as
financial markets and the scope of our operations have changed. The composition
of net revenues can also vary over the shorter term due to fluctuations in
economic and market conditions. As a result, period-to-period comparisons may
not be meaningful. See "Risk Factors" for a discussion of factors that could
affect our future performance.
 
OVERVIEW
 
     The following table sets forth our net revenues and pre-tax earnings:
 
                               FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                                 YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER             FEBRUARY
                                              --------------------------    ------------------
                                               1996      1997      1998      1998       1999
                                               ----      ----      ----      ----       ----
<S>                                           <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>
Net revenues................................  $6,129    $7,447    $8,520    $2,472     $2,995
Pre-tax earnings............................   2,606     3,014     2,921     1,022      1,188
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
     FEBRUARY 1999 VERSUS FEBRUARY 1998. Our net revenues were $2.99 billion in
the three-month period ended February 1999, an increase of 21% compared to the
same period in 1998. Net revenue growth was strong in Investment Banking, which
increased 42%, primarily due to higher market levels of mergers and acquisitions
and underwriting activity. Net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments
increased 15% as higher net revenues in FICC and equities more than offset a
reduction in principal investments. Net revenues in Asset Management and
Securities Services increased 12% due to increased assets under management and
higher customer balances in securities services. Pre-tax earnings increased 16%
to $1.19 billion for the period.
 
     1998 VERSUS 1997.  Our net revenues were $8.52 billion in 1998, an increase
of 14% compared to 1997. Net revenue growth was strong in Investment Banking,
which increased 30%, due to higher levels of mergers and acquisitions activity,
and in Asset Management and Securities Services, which increased 43%, due to
increased commissions, higher customer balances in securities services and
increased assets under management. Net revenues in Trading and Principal
Investments decreased 19% compared to the prior year, due primarily to a 30%
reduction of net revenues in FICC. Pre-tax earnings in 1998 were $2.92 billion
compared to $3.01 billion in the prior year.
 
     1997 VERSUS 1996.  Our net revenues were $7.45 billion in 1997, an increase
of 22% compared to 1996. Net revenue growth was strong in Asset Management and
Securities Services, which increased 46%, due to increased commissions and asset
management fees and higher assets under management and customer balances in
securities services. Net revenues in Investment Banking increased 22% due to
increased levels of mergers and acquisitions and debt underwriting activity. Net
revenues in Trading and Principal Investments increased 9% over the prior year,
due to higher net revenues in FICC and principal investments. Pre-tax earnings
were $3.01 billion in 1997, an increase of 16% over the prior year.
 
                                       42
<PAGE>   69
 
     The following table sets forth the net revenues of our principal business
lines:
 
                    NET REVENUES BY PRINCIPAL BUSINESS LINE
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                             YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER               FEBRUARY
                                          --------------------------      ------------------
                                           1996      1997      1998        1998        1999
                                           ----      ----      ----        ----        ----
<S>                                       <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>         <C>
Investment Banking......................  $2,113    $2,587    $3,368      $  633      $  902
Trading and Principal Investments.......   2,693     2,926     2,379       1,182       1,357
Asset Management and Securities
  Services..............................   1,323     1,934     2,773         657         736
                                          ------    ------    ------      ------      ------
Total net revenues......................  $6,129    $7,447    $8,520      $2,472      $2,995
                                          ======    ======    ======      ======      ======
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
     Net revenues in our principal business lines represent total revenues less
allocations of interest expense to specific securities, commodities and other
positions in relation to the level of financing incurred by each position.
Interest expense is allocated to Trading and Principal Investments and the
securities services component of Asset Management and Securities Services. Net
revenues may not be indicative of the relative profitability of any principal
business line.
 
INVESTMENT BANKING
 
     Goldman Sachs provides a broad range of investment banking services to a
diverse group of corporations, financial institutions, governments and
individuals. Our investment banking activities are divided into two categories:
 
- - FINANCIAL ADVISORY. Financial advisory includes advisory assignments with
  respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense
  activities, restructurings and spin-offs; and

- - UNDERWRITING. Underwriting includes public offerings and private placements of
  equity and debt securities.
 
     The following table sets forth the net revenues of our Investment Banking
business:
 
                        INVESTMENT BANKING NET REVENUES
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                             YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER                 FEBRUARY
                                        ------------------------------      ------------------
                                         1996        1997        1998       1998         1999
                                         ----        ----        ----       ----         ----
<S>                                     <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>
Financial advisory....................  $  931      $1,184      $1,774      $363         $522
Underwriting..........................   1,182       1,403       1,594       270          380
                                        ------      ------      ------      ----         ----
Total Investment Banking..............  $2,113      $2,587      $3,368      $633         $902
                                        ======      ======      ======      ====         ====
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
     FEBRUARY 1999 VERSUS FEBRUARY 1998. The Investment Banking business
achieved net revenues of $902 million in the three-month period ended February
1999, an increase of 42% compared to the same period in 1998. Net revenue growth
was strong in both financial advisory and underwriting, particularly in the
communications, media and entertainment, healthcare and financial institutions
groups. Our Investment Banking business was particularly strong in Europe and
the United States.
 
                                       43
<PAGE>   70
 
     Financial advisory revenues increased 44% compared to the same period in
1998, primarily due to higher market levels of mergers and acquisitions activity
as the trend toward consolidation continued in various industries. Underwriting
revenues increased 41%, primarily due to increased levels of equity underwriting
activity in Europe.
 
     1998 VERSUS 1997.  The Investment Banking business achieved net revenues of
$3.37 billion in 1998, an increase of 30% compared to 1997. Net revenue growth
was strong in financial advisory and, to a lesser extent, in underwriting as
Goldman Sachs' global presence and strong client base enabled it to capitalize
on higher levels of activity in many industry groups, including communications,
media and entertainment, financial institutions, general industrials and retail.
Net revenue growth in our Investment Banking business was strong in all major
regions in 1998 compared to the prior year.
 
     Financial advisory revenues increased 50% compared to 1997 due to increased
revenues from mergers and acquisitions advisory assignments, which principally
resulted from consolidation within various industries and generally favorable
U.S. and European stock markets. Despite a substantial decrease in the number of
industry-wide underwriting transactions in August and September of 1998,
underwriting revenues increased 14% for the year, primarily due to increased
revenues from equity and high-yield corporate debt underwriting activities.
 
     1997 VERSUS 1996.  The Investment Banking business achieved net revenues of
$2.59 billion in 1997, an increase of 22% compared to 1996. Net revenue growth
was strong in both financial advisory and underwriting, particularly in the
financial institutions, general industrials and real estate groups.
 
     Financial advisory revenues increased 27% compared to 1996 primarily due to
increased revenues from mergers and acquisitions activity in the market as a
whole. Underwriting revenues increased 19% primarily due to increased revenues
from investment grade and high-yield debt underwriting, which resulted from
lower interest rates. Revenues from equity underwriting activities increased
modestly over 1996 levels.
 
TRADING AND PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS
 
     Our Trading and Principal Investments business facilitates customer
transactions and takes proprietary positions through market-making in and
trading of fixed income and equity products, currencies, commodities, and swaps
and other derivatives. The Trading and Principal Investments business includes
the following:
 
- - FICC.  We make markets in and trade fixed income products, currencies and
  commodities, structure and enter into a wide variety of derivative
  transactions and engage in proprietary trading and arbitrage activities;
 
- - EQUITIES.  We make markets in and trade equities and equity-related products,
  structure and enter into equity derivative transactions and engage in
  proprietary trading and equity arbitrage; and
 
- - PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS.  Principal investments primarily represents net
  revenues from our investments in our merchant banking funds.
 
     Net revenues from principal investments do not include management fees and
the increased share of the income and gains from our merchant banking funds to
which Goldman Sachs is entitled when the return on investments exceeds certain
threshold returns to fund investors. These management fees and increased shares
of income and gains are included in the net revenues of Asset Management and
Securities Services.
 
     Substantially all of our inventory is marked-to-market daily and,
therefore, its value and our net revenues are subject to fluctuations based on
market movements. In addition, net revenues derived from our principal
investments in privately held concerns and in real estate may fluctuate
significantly depending on the revaluation or sale of these investments in any
given period.
 
                                       44
<PAGE>   71
 
     The following table sets forth the net revenues of our Trading and
Principal Investments business:
 
                 TRADING AND PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS NET REVENUES
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                                       YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER             FEBRUARY
                                                    --------------------------    ------------------
                                                     1996      1997      1998      1998       1999
                                                     ----      ----      ----      ----       ----
<S>                                                 <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>
FICC..............................................  $1,749    $2,055    $1,438    $  741     $  876
Equities..........................................     730       573       795       365        455
Principal investments.............................     214       298       146        76         26
                                                    ------    ------    ------    ------     ------
Total Trading and Principal Investments...........  $2,693    $2,926    $2,379    $1,182     $1,357
                                                    ======    ======    ======    ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
     FEBRUARY 1999 VERSUS FEBRUARY 1998. The Trading and Principal Investments
business achieved net revenues of $1.36 billion in the three-month period ended
February 1999, an increase of 15% compared to the same period in 1998. Strong
performances in FICC and equities more than offset a net revenue reduction in
principal investments.
 
     Net revenues in FICC increased 18% compared to the same period in 1998,
primarily due to higher net revenues from market-making and trading of
currencies, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities, partially offset by
lower net revenues from fixed income derivatives.
 
     Net revenues in equities increased 25% compared to the same period in 1998,
primarily due to increased market-making net revenues resulting from strong
over-the-counter transaction volume in Europe and the United States.
 
     Net revenues from principal investments decreased 66%, due to lower gains
on the disposition of investments and a reduction in net revenues related to the
mark-to-market of our principal investments.
 
     1998 VERSUS 1997.  Net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments were
$2.38 billion in 1998, a decrease of 19% compared to 1997. This decrease in net
revenues was concentrated in the second half of the year. See "-- Business
Environment" above for a discussion of the losses suffered in Trading and
Principal Investments in the second half of 1998. For the full year, significant
net revenue reductions in FICC and principal investments were partially offset
by increased net revenues in equities.
 
     Net revenues in FICC decreased 30% compared to 1997 due to an
extraordinarily difficult environment in the second half of 1998. The net
revenue reduction in FICC was concentrated in fixed income arbitrage and
high-yield debt trading, which experienced losses in 1998 due to a reduction in
liquidity and widening credit spreads in the second half of the year. An
increase in net revenues from market-making and trading in fixed income
derivatives, currencies and commodities partially offset this decline.
 
     Net revenues in equities increased 39% compared to 1997 as higher net
revenues in derivatives and European shares were partially offset by losses in
equity arbitrage. The derivatives business generated significantly higher net
revenues due, in part, to strong customer demand for over-the-counter products,
particularly in Europe. Net revenues from European shares increased as Goldman
Sachs benefited from generally favorable equity markets and increased customer
demand. The equity arbitrage losses were due principally to the underperformance
of various equity positions versus their benchmark hedges, to widening of
spreads in a variety of relative value trades and to lower prices for
event-oriented securities resulting from a re-
 
                                       45
<PAGE>   72
 
duction in announced mergers and acquisitions and other corporate activity in
the second half of 1998.
 
     Net revenues from principal investments declined 51% compared to 1997 as
investments in certain publicly held companies decreased in value during the
second half of 1998. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in gains
on the disposition of investments compared to the prior year.
 
     1997 VERSUS 1996.  The Trading and Principal Investments business achieved
net revenues of $2.93 billion in 1997, an increase of 9% compared to 1996.
Strong performances in FICC and principal investments more than offset a net
revenue reduction in equities.
 
     Net revenues in FICC increased 17% compared to 1996 due principally to
higher net revenues from market-making and trading in currencies, fixed income
derivatives and commodities. Fixed income arbitrage activities also contributed
to net revenue growth in FICC. Net revenues from market-making in and trading of
emerging market debt securities and corporate bonds declined in 1997 compared to
1996.
 
     Net revenues in equities decreased 22% in 1997 compared to 1996 due
principally to reductions in net revenues from derivatives and convertibles
resulting from volatility in the global equity markets in October and November
1997 and declining asset values in Japan in late November 1997. This reduction
was partially offset by increased net revenues from higher customer trading
volume in certain European over-the-counter markets.
 
     Net revenues from principal investments increased 39% in 1997 compared to
1996, as certain companies in which we invested through our merchant banking
funds completed initial public offerings and our positions in other publicly
held companies increased in value.

ASSET MANAGEMENT AND SECURITIES SERVICES

     Asset Management and Securities Services is comprised of the following:

 
- - ASSET MANAGEMENT.  Asset management generates management fees by providing
  investment advisory services to a diverse and rapidly growing client base of
  institutions and individuals;
 
- - SECURITIES SERVICES.  Securities services includes prime brokerage, financing
  services and securities lending and our matched book businesses, all of which
  generate revenue primarily in the form of fees or interest rate spreads; and
 
- - COMMISSIONS.  Commission-based businesses include agency transactions for
  clients on major stock and futures exchanges. Revenues from the increased
  share of the income and gains derived from our merchant banking funds are also
  included in commissions.
 
     The following table sets forth the net revenues of our Asset Management and
Securities Services business:
 
             ASSET MANAGEMENT AND SECURITIES SERVICES NET REVENUES
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                                  YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER             FEBRUARY
                                               --------------------------    -------------------
                                                1996      1997      1998      1998         1999
                                                ----      ----      ----      ----         ----
<S>                                            <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>          <C>
Asset management.............................  $  242    $  458    $  675     $139         $202
Securities services..........................     354       487       730      170          207
Commissions..................................     727       989     1,368      348          327
                                               ------    ------    ------     ----         ----
Total Asset Management and Securities
  Services...................................  $1,323    $1,934    $2,773     $657         $736
                                               ======    ======    ======     ====         ====
</TABLE>
 
     Goldman Sachs' assets under supervision are comprised of assets under
management and other client assets. Assets under management typically generate
fees based on a percentage of their value and include our mutual funds, separate
accounts managed for
 
                                       46
<PAGE>   73
 
institutional and individual investors, our merchant banking funds and other
alternative investment funds. Other client assets are comprised of assets in
brokerage accounts of primarily high net worth individuals, on which we earn
commissions. The following table sets forth our assets under supervision:
 
                            ASSETS UNDER SUPERVISION
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                         YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER                 FEBRUARY
                                   --------------------------------    --------------------
                                     1996        1997        1998        1998        1999
                                     ----        ----        ----        ----        ----
<S>                                <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Assets under management..........  $ 94,599    $135,929    $194,821    $151,189    $206,380
Other client assets..............    76,892     102,033     142,018     114,928     163,315
                                   --------    --------    --------    --------    --------
Total assets under supervision...  $171,491    $237,962    $336,839    $266,117    $369,695
                                   ========    ========    ========    ========    ========
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
     FEBRUARY 1999 VERSUS FEBRUARY 1998. The Asset Management and Securities
Services business achieved net revenues of $736 million in the three-month
period ended February 1999, an increase of 12% compared to the same period in
1998. Strong performances in asset management and securities services more than
offset a net revenue reduction in commissions.
 
     Asset management revenues increased 45% compared to the same period in
1998, primarily reflecting a 43% increase in average assets under management. In
the 1999 period, approximately half of the increase in assets under management
was attributable to net asset inflows, with the balance reflecting market
appreciation. Net revenues from securities services increased 22% during the
period, primarily due to growth in our securities borrowing and lending
businesses. Commission revenues decreased 6%, as an increase in equity
commissions was more than offset by a reduction in revenues from the increased
share of income and gains from our merchant banking funds compared to a
particularly strong period in the prior year.
 
     1998 VERSUS 1997.  The Asset Management and Securities Services business
achieved net revenues of $2.77 billion in 1998, an increase of 43% compared to
1997. All major components of the business line exhibited strong net revenue
growth.
 
     Asset management revenues increased 47% during this period, reflecting a
41% increase in average assets under management over 1997. In 1998,
approximately 80% of the increase in assets under management was attributable to
net asset inflows, with the remaining 20% reflecting market appreciation. Net
revenues from securities services increased 50%, primarily due to growth in our
securities borrowing and lending businesses. Commission revenues increased 38%
as generally strong and highly volatile equity markets resulted in increased
transaction volumes in listed equity securities. Revenues from the increased
share of income and gains from our merchant banking funds also contributed
significantly to the increase in commission revenues.
 
     1997 VERSUS 1996.  The Asset Management and Securities Services business
achieved net revenues of $1.93 billion in 1997, an increase of 46% compared to
1996. All major components of the business line exhibited strong net revenue
growth.
 
     Asset management revenues increased 89% during this period, reflecting a
73% increase in average assets under management due to strong net asset inflows,
market appreciation and assets added through the acquisitions of Liberty
Investment Management in January 1997 and Commodities Corporation in June 1997.
Net revenue growth in securities services was 38%, principally reflecting growth
in our securities borrowing and lending businesses. Commission revenues
increased 36% as customer trading volumes increased significantly on many of
 
                                       47
<PAGE>   74
 
the world's principal stock exchanges, including those in the United States
where industry-wide volumes increased substantially in the third and fourth
quarters of 1997. Revenues from the increased share of income and gains from our
merchant banking funds also contributed significantly to the increase in
commission revenues.
 
OPERATING EXPENSES
 
     In recent years, our operating expenses have increased as a result of
numerous factors, including higher levels of compensation, expansion of our
asset management business, increased worldwide activities, greater levels of
business complexity and additional systems and consulting costs relating to
various technology initiatives.
 
     Since we historically operated in partnership form, payments to our profit
participating limited partners were accounted for as distributions of partners'
capital rather than as compensation expense. As a result, our compensation and
benefits expense has not reflected any payments for services rendered by our
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners. Accordingly,
our historical compensation and benefits, the principal component of our
operating expenses, will increase significantly as a result of our conversion to
corporate form since, as a corporation, we will include these payments to our
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners in
compensation and benefits expense.
 
     We expect to record additional expense in the second quarter of 1999 equal
to (i) 50% of the estimated compensation and benefits of the managing directors
who were profit participating limited partners in 1999 based on the annualized
results for the first half of 1999 offset by (ii) the effect of issuing
restricted stock units to employees, in lieu of cash compensation, for which
future service is required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying
shares of common stock. In accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 25, these restricted stock units will be recorded as compensation expense
over the four-year vesting period following the date of grant. In addition, we
expect to record non-cash compensation expense related to the amortization of
the restricted stock units awarded to employees on a discretionary basis over
the five-year period following the consummation of our common stock offering.
The non-cash expense related to these restricted stock units is a fixed amount
that is not dependent on our operating results in any given period. See "Pro
Forma Consolidated Financial Information" for a further discussion of these
items.
 
     The following table sets forth our operating expenses and number of
employees:
 
                        OPERATING EXPENSES AND EMPLOYEES
                                ($ in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                              YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER              FEBRUARY
                                          ----------------------------    ------------------
                                           1996      1997       1998       1998       1999
                                           ----      ----       ----       ----       ----
<S>                                       <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Compensation and benefits...............  $2,421    $ 3,097    $ 3,838    $ 1,100    $ 1,275
Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees...     278        357        424         93        111
Market development......................     137        206        287         54         77
Communications and technology...........     173        208        265         58         78
Depreciation and amortization...........     172        178        242         42         97
Occupancy...............................     154        168        207         44         78
Professional services and other.........     188        219        336         59         91
                                          ------    -------    -------    -------    -------
Total operating expenses................  $3,523    $ 4,433    $ 5,599    $ 1,450    $ 1,807
                                          ======    =======    =======    =======    =======
Employees at period end(1)..............   8,977     10,622     13,033     10,899     12,878
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
    (1) Excludes employees of Goldman Sachs' two property management
        subsidiaries, The Archon Group, L.P. and Archon Group (France) S.C.A.
        Substantially all of the costs of these employees are reimbursed to
        Goldman Sachs by the real estate investment funds to which the two
        companies provide property management services. In addition, as of
        February 1999, we had approximately 3,400 temporary staff and
        consultants. For more detailed information regarding our employees, see
        "Business -- Employees".
 
                                       48
<PAGE>   75
 
     FEBRUARY 1999 VERSUS FEBRUARY 1998. Operating expenses were $1.81 billion
in the three-month period ended February 1999, an increase of 25% over the same
period in 1998, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits and higher
other operating expenses due to, among other things, Goldman Sachs' increased
worldwide activities.
 
     Compensation and benefits decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 43%
from 44% in the same period in 1998. Employment levels increased 18% compared to
the same period in 1998, with particularly strong growth in investment banking
and asset management. Expenses associated with our temporary staff and
consultants were $98 million for the three-month period ended February 1999, an
increase of 55%, reflecting preparations for the Year 2000 and greater levels of
business activity.
 
     Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 19%, primarily due to
higher transaction volumes in fixed income derivatives and futures contracts.
Market development expenses increased 43% and professional services and other
expenses increased 54%, due to higher levels of business activity.
Communications and technology expenses increased 34%, reflecting higher
telecommunications and market data costs associated with higher employment
levels and additional spending on technology initiatives. Depreciation and
amortization increased significantly due to certain fixed asset write-offs and
to capital expenditures on telecommunications and technology-related equipment
and leasehold improvements in support of Goldman Sachs' increased worldwide
activities. Occupancy expenses increased 77%, reflecting additional office space
needed to accommodate higher employment levels.
 
     1998 VERSUS 1997.  Operating expenses were $5.60 billion in 1998, an
increase of 26% over 1997, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits
expense.
 
     Compensation and benefits increased as a percentage of net revenues to 45%
from 42% in 1997, principally as a result of increases in employment levels and
in expenses associated with temporary staff and consultants. Employment levels
increased 23% during the year, with particularly strong growth in asset
management. Expenses associated with our temporary staff and consultants were
$330 million in 1998, an increase of 85% compared to 1997, reflecting greater
business activity, Goldman Sachs' global expansion and consulting costs
associated with various technology initiatives, including preparations for the
Year 2000 and the establishment of the European Economic and Monetary Union.
 
     Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 19%, primarily due to
higher transaction volumes in European and U.S. equities and futures contracts.
Market development expenses increased 39% and professional services and other
expenses increased 53%, due to higher levels of business activity and Goldman
Sachs' global expansion. Communications and technology expenses increased 27%,
reflecting higher telecommunications and market data costs associated with
higher employment levels and additional spending on technology initiatives.
Depreciation and amortization increased 36%, principally due to capital
expenditures on telecommunications and technology-related equipment and
leasehold improvements. Occupancy expenses increased 23%, reflecting additional
office space needed to accommodate higher employment levels.
 
     1997 VERSUS 1996.  Operating expenses were $4.43 billion in 1997, an
increase of 26% over 1996, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits
expense.
 
     Compensation and benefits increased as a percentage of net revenues to 42%
from 40% in 1996. This increase primarily reflected higher compensation due to
higher profit levels and an 18% increase in employment levels across Goldman
Sachs due to higher levels of market activity and our global expansion into new
businesses and markets. Expenses associated with our temporary staff and
consultants also contributed to the increase in compensation and benefits as a
percentage of net revenues. These expenses were $178 million in 1997, an
increase of 55% compared to 1996, reflecting greater business
 
                                       49
<PAGE>   76
 
activity, Goldman Sachs' global expansion and consulting costs associated with
various technology initiatives.
 
     Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 28%, primarily due to
higher transaction volumes in global equities, derivatives and currencies.
Market development expenses increased 50% and professional services and other
expenses increased 16%, due to higher levels of business activity and Goldman
Sachs' global expansion. Communications and technology expenses increased 20%,
reflecting higher telecommunications and market data costs associated with
higher employment levels and additional spending on technology initiatives.
Depreciation and amortization increased 3%. Occupancy expenses increased 9%,
reflecting additional office space needed to accommodate higher employment
levels.
 
PROVISION FOR TAXES
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., as a partnership, generally was not subject
to U.S. federal and state income taxes. The earnings of The Goldman Sachs Group,
L.P. and certain of its subsidiaries have been subject to the 4% New York City
unincorporated business tax. In addition, certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries
have been subject to income taxes in their local jurisdictions. The amount of
our provision for income and unincorporated business taxes has varied
significantly from year to year depending on the mix of earnings among our
subsidiaries. For information on the pro forma effective tax rate of Goldman
Sachs under corporate form, see "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information".
 
GEOGRAPHIC DATA
 
     For a summary of the total revenues, net revenues, pre-tax earnings and
identifiable assets of Goldman Sachs by geographic region, see Note 9 to the
audited consolidated financial statements.
 
                                   CASH FLOWS
 
     Our cash flows are primarily related to the operating and financing
activities undertaken in connection with our trading and market-making
transactions.
 
YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1998
 
     Cash and cash equivalents increased to $2.84 billion in 1998. Cash of $62
million was provided by operating activities. Cash of $656 million was used for
investing activities, primarily for leasehold improvements and the purchase of
telecommunications and technology-related equipment and certain financial
instruments. Financing activities provided $2.10 billion of cash, reflecting an
increase in the net issuance of long-term and short-term borrowings, partially
offset by a decrease in net repurchase agreements, distributions to partners,
cash outflows related to partners' capital allocated for income taxes and
potential withdrawals and the termination of our profit participation plans. See
Note 8 to the audited consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the
termination of the profit participation plans.
 
YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1997
 
     Cash and cash equivalents decreased to $1.33 billion in 1997. Operating
activities provided cash of $70 million. Cash of $693 million was used for
investing activities, primarily for the purchase of certain financial
instruments and technology-related equipment. Cash of $258 million was used for
financing activities, principally due to a decrease in net repurchase
agreements, distributions to partners and cash outflows related to partners'
capital allocated for income taxes and potential withdrawals, partially offset
by the net issuance of long-term and short-term borrowings.
 
YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1996
 
     Cash and cash equivalents increased to $2.21 billion in 1996. Cash of
$14.63 billion was used for operating activities, primarily to fund higher net
trading assets due to increased levels of business activity. Cash of $218
million was used for investing activities, primarily for the purchase of
technology-related equipment and leasehold improvements. Financing activities
provided $16.10 billion of cash, reflecting an increase in net
 
                                       50
<PAGE>   77
 
repurchase agreements and the net issuance of long-term borrowings, partially
offset by distributions to partners and cash outflows related to partners'
capital allocated for income taxes and potential withdrawals.
 
                                   LIQUIDITY
 
MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT OF LIQUIDITY
 
     Management believes that one of the most important issues for a company in
the financial services sector is access to liquidity. Accordingly, Goldman Sachs
has established a comprehensive structure to oversee its liquidity and funding
policies.
 
     The Finance Committee has responsibility for establishing and assuring
compliance with our asset and liability management policies and has oversight
responsibility for managing liquidity risk, the size and composition of our
balance sheet and our credit ratings. See "-- Risk Management -- Risk Management
Structure" below for a further description of the committees that participate in
our risk management process. The Finance Committee meets monthly, and more often
when necessary, to evaluate our liquidity position and funding requirements.
 
     Our Treasury Department manages the capital structure, funding, liquidity
and relationships with creditors and rating agencies on a global basis. The
Treasury Department works jointly with our global funding desk in managing our
borrowings. The global funding desk is primarily responsible for our
transactional short-term funding activity.
 
LIQUIDITY POLICIES
 
     In order to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity, management has
implemented several liquidity policies as outlined below.
 
     DIVERSIFICATION OF FUNDING SOURCES AND LIQUIDITY PLANNING.  Goldman Sachs
maintains diversified funding sources with both banks and non-bank lenders
globally. Management believes that Goldman Sachs' relationships with its lenders
are critical to its liquidity. We maintain close contact with our primary
lenders to keep them advised of significant developments that affect us.
 
     Goldman Sachs also has access to diversified funding sources with over 800
creditors, including banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, bank trust
departments and other asset managers. We monitor our creditors to maintain broad
and diversified credit, and no single creditor represented more than 5% of our
uncollateralized funding sources as of November 1998. Uncollateralized funding
sources principally include our short-term and long-term borrowings and letters
of credit.
 
     We access liquidity in a variety of markets in the United States as well as
in Europe and Asia. In addition, we make extensive use of the repurchase
agreement market and have raised debt in the private placement, the SEC's Rule
144A and the commercial paper markets, as well as through Eurobonds, money
broker loans, commodity-based financings, letters of credit and promissory
notes. We also intend to begin raising debt in the public securities market,
including through this offering and our underwritten debt offerings. We seek to
structure our liabilities to avoid significant amounts of debt coming due on any
one day or during any single week or year. In addition, we maintain and update
annually a liquidity crisis plan that provides guidance in the event of a
liquidity crisis. The annual update of this plan is reviewed and approved by our
Finance Committee.
 
     ASSET LIQUIDITY.  Goldman Sachs maintains a highly liquid balance sheet.
Many of our assets are readily funded in the repurchase agreement markets, which
generally have proven to be a consistent source of funding, even in periods of
market stress. Substantially all of our inventory turns over rapidly and is
marked-to-market daily. We maintain long-term borrowings and partners' capital
substantially in excess of our less liquid assets.
 
     DYNAMIC LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT. Goldman Sachs seeks to manage the composition
of its asset base and the maturity profile of its funding to ensure that it can
liquidate its assets prior to its liabilities coming due, even in times of
liquidity stress. We have traditionally been able to fund our liquidity needs
through collateralized funding, such as repurchase transactions and securities
 
                                       51
<PAGE>   78
 
lending, as well as short-term and long-term borrowings and partners' capital.
To further evaluate the adequacy of our liquidity management policies and
guidelines, we perform weekly "stress funding" simulations of disruptions to our
access to unsecured credit.
 
     EXCESS LIQUIDITY.  In addition to maintaining a highly liquid balance sheet
and a significant portion of longer-term liabilities to assure liquidity even
during adverse conditions, we seek to maintain a liquidity cushion that consists
principally of unencumbered U.S. government and agency obligations to ensure the
availability of immediate liquidity. This pool of highly liquid assets averaged
$14.17 billion during 1998 and $12.54 billion during 1997.
 
     LIQUIDITY RATIO MAINTENANCE.  It is Goldman Sachs' policy to further manage
its liquidity by maintaining a "liquidity ratio" of at least 100%. This ratio
measures the relationship between the loan value of our unencumbered assets and
our short-term unsecured liabilities. The maintenance of this liquidity ratio is
intended to ensure that we could fund our positions on a fully secured basis in
the event that we were unable to replace our unsecured debt maturing within one
year. Under this policy, we seek to maintain unencumbered assets in an amount
that, if pledged or sold, would provide the funds necessary to replace unsecured
obligations that are scheduled to mature (or where holders have the option to
redeem) within the coming year.
 
     INTERCOMPANY FUNDING.  Most of the liquidity of Goldman Sachs is raised by
the parent company, which, since our conversion to corporate form, is The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. The parent company then lends the necessary funds to
its subsidiaries and affiliates. We carefully manage our intercompany exposure
by generally requiring intercompany loans to have maturities equal to or shorter
than the maturities of the aggregate borrowings of the parent company. This
policy ensures that the subsidiaries' obligations to the parent company will
generally mature in advance of the parent company's third-party long-term
borrowings. In addition, many of the advances made to our subsidiaries and
affiliates are secured by marketable securities or other liquid collateral.
Prior to our conversion to corporate form, we generally funded our equity
investments in subsidiaries with partners' capital.
 
THE BALANCE SHEET
 
     Goldman Sachs maintains a highly liquid balance sheet that fluctuates
significantly between financial statement dates. In the fourth quarter of 1998,
we temporarily decreased our total assets to reduce risk and increase liquidity
in response to difficult conditions in the global financial markets.
 
     Our total assets were $230.62 billion as of February 1999 and $217.38
billion as of November 1998.
 
     Our balance sheet size as of February 1999 and November 1998 increased by
$8.99 billion and $11.64 billion, respectively, due to the adoption of the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125 that were
deferred by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 127. For a
discussion of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Nos. 125 and 127, see
"-- Accounting Developments" below and Note 2 to the audited consolidated
financial statements.
 
     As of February 1999 and November 1998, we held approximately $999 million
and $1.04 billion, respectively, in high-yield debt securities and $1.39 billion
and $1.49 billion, respectively, in bank loans, all of which are valued on a
mark-to-market basis. These assets may be relatively illiquid during times of
market stress. We seek to diversify our holdings of these assets by industry and
by geographic location.
 
     As of February 1999 and November 1998, we held approximately $1.04 billion
and $1.17 billion, respectively, of emerging market securities, and $103 million
and $109 million, respectively, in emerging market loans, all of which are
valued on a mark-to-market basis. Of the $1.14 billion and $1.28 billion in
emerging market securities and loans, as of February 1999 and November 1998,
respectively, approximately $778 million and $968 million were sovereign
obligations, many of which are collateralized as to principal at stated
maturity.
 
                                       52
<PAGE>   79
 
     In September 1998, a consortium of 14 banks and brokerage firms, including
Goldman Sachs, made an equity investment in Long-Term Capital Portfolio, L.P., a
major market participant. The objectives of this investment were to provide
sufficient capital to permit Long-Term Capital Portfolio, L.P. to continue
active management of its positions and, over time, to reduce risk exposures and
leverage, to return capital to the participants in the consortium and ultimately
to realize the potential value of the portfolio. We invested $300 million in
Long-Term Capital Portfolio, L.P.
 
CREDIT RATINGS
 
     Goldman Sachs relies upon the debt capital markets to fund a significant
portion of its day-to-day operations. The cost and availability of debt
financing is influenced by our credit ratings. Credit ratings are also important
to us when competing in certain markets and when seeking to engage in
longer-term transactions, including over-the-counter derivatives. A reduction in
our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to
the capital markets. This, in turn, could reduce our earnings and adversely
affect our liquidity.
 
LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     As of November 1998, our consolidated long-term borrowings were $19.91
billion. Substantially all of these borrowings were unsecured and consisted
principally of senior borrowings with maturities extending to 2024. The weighted
average maturity of our long-term borrowings as of November 1998 was
approximately four years. Substantially all of our long-term borrowings are
swapped into U.S. dollar obligations with short-term floating rates of interest
in order to minimize our exposure to interest rates and foreign exchange
movements. See Note 5 to the audited consolidated financial statements for
further information regarding our long-term borrowings.
 
                             REGULATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
     Many of our principal subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation in
the United States and elsewhere. Goldman, Sachs & Co., a registered U.S.
broker-dealer, is regulated by the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, the Chicago Board of Trade, the NYSE and NASD. Goldman Sachs
International, a registered United Kingdom broker-dealer, is subject to
regulation by the Securities and Futures Authority Limited and the Financial
Services Authority. Goldman Sachs (Japan) Ltd., a Tokyo-based broker-dealer, is
subject to regulation by the Japanese Ministry of Finance, the Financial
Supervisory Agency, the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Tokyo International Financial
Futures Exchange and the Japan Securities Dealers Association. Several other
subsidiaries of Goldman Sachs are regulated by securities, investment advisory,
banking and other regulators and authorities around the world. Compliance with
the rules of these regulators may prevent us from receiving distributions,
advances or repayment of liabilities from these subsidiaries. See Note 8 to the
audited consolidated financial statements and Note 5 to the unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our
regulated subsidiaries.
 
                                RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     Goldman Sachs has a comprehensive risk management process to monitor,
evaluate and manage the principal risks assumed in conducting its activities.
These risks include market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal and
reputational exposures.
 
RISK MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
 
     Goldman Sachs seeks to monitor and control its risk exposure through a
variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational and legal
reporting systems. We believe that we have effective procedures for evaluating
and managing the market, credit and other risks to which we are exposed.
Nonetheless, the effectiveness of our policies and procedures for managing risk
exposure can never be completely or accurately predicted or fully assured. For
example, unexpectedly large or rapid movements or disruptions in one or more
markets or other unforeseen developments can have a material
 
                                       53
<PAGE>   80
 
adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The
consequences of these developments can include losses due to adverse changes
in inventory values, decreases in the liquidity of trading positions, higher
volatility in our earnings, increases in our credit risk to customers and
counterparties and increases in general systemic risk. See "Risk Factors --
Market Fluctuations Could Harm Our Businesses in Many Ways and, Consequently,
Could Lower the Value of an Investment in the Notes" for a discussion of the
effect that market fluctuations can have on our businesses.
 
     Goldman Sachs has established risk control procedures at several levels
throughout the organization. Trading desk managers have the first line of
responsibility for managing risk within prescribed limits. These managers have
in-depth knowledge of the primary sources of risk in their individual markets
and the instruments available to hedge our exposures. In addition, a number of
committees described in the following table are responsible for establishing
trading limits, monitoring adherence to these limits and for general oversight
of our risk management process.
 
                                       54
<PAGE>   81
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               COMMITTEE                                           FUNCTION
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>
  Management Committee                   All risk control functions ultimately report to the
                                         Management Committee. Through both direct and delegated
                                         authority, the Management Committee approves all of Goldman
                                         Sachs':
                                         - operating activities;
                                         - trading risk parameters; and
                                         - customer review guidelines.
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Risk Committees                        The Firmwide Risk Committee:
                                         - periodically reviews the activities of existing
                                           businesses;
                                         - approves new businesses and products;
                                         - approves divisional market risk limits and reviews
                                           business unit market risk limits;
                                         - approves inventory position limits for selected country
                                           exposures and business units;
                                         - approves sovereign credit risk limits and credit risk
                                           limits by ratings group; and
                                         - reviews scenario analyses based on abnormal or
                                           "catastrophic" market movements.

                                         The FICC Risk Committee sets market risk limits for
                                         individual business units and sets issuer-specific net
                                         inventory position limits.

                                         The Equities Risk Committee sets market risk limits for
                                         individual business units that consist of gross and net
                                         inventory position limits and, for equity derivatives,
                                         limits based on market move scenario analysis.

                                         The Asset Management Control Oversight Committee and the
                                         Asset Management Risk Committee oversee various operational,
                                         credit, pricing and business practices issues.
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Global Compliance and Control          The Global Compliance and Control Committee provides
     Committee                           oversight of our compliance and control functions, including
                                         internal audit, reviews our legal, reputational, operational
                                         and control risks, and periodically reviews the activities
                                         of existing businesses.
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Commitments Committee                  The Commitments Committee approves:
                                         - equity and non-investment grade debt underwriting
                                           commitments;
                                         - loans extended by Goldman Sachs; and
                                         - unusual financing structures and transactions that involve
                                           significant capital exposure.

                                         The Commitments Committee has delegated to the Credit
                                         Department the authority to approve underwriting commitments
                                         for investment grade debt and certain other products.
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Credit Policy Committee                The Credit Policy Committee establishes and reviews broad
                                         credit policies and parameters that are implemented by the
                                         Credit Department.
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Finance Committee                      The Finance Committee is responsible for oversight of our
                                         capital, liquidity and funding needs and for setting certain
                                         inventory position limits.
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
 
                                       55
<PAGE>   82
 
     Segregation of duties and management oversight are fundamental elements of
our risk management process. Accordingly, departments that are independent of
the revenue producing units, such as the Firmwide Risk, Credit, Controllers,
Global Operations, Central Compliance, Management Controls and Legal
Departments, in part perform risk management functions, which include
monitoring, analyzing and evaluating risk.
 
MARKET RISK
 
     The potential for changes in the market value of our trading positions is
referred to as "market risk". Our trading positions result from underwriting,
market-making and proprietary trading activities.
 
     The broadly defined categories of market risk include exposures to interest
rates, currency rates, equity prices and commodity prices.
 
- - Interest rate risks primarily result from exposures to changes in the level,
  slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates,
  mortgage prepayment speeds and credit spreads.
 
- - Currency rate risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward
  prices and volatilities of currency rates.
 
- - Equity price risks result from exposures to changes in prices and volatilities
  of individual equities, equity baskets and equity indices.
 
- - Commodity price risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward
  prices and volatilities of commodities, such as electricity, natural gas,
  crude oil, petroleum products and precious and base metals.
 
     We seek to manage these risk exposures through diversifying exposures,
controlling position sizes and establishing hedges in related securities or
derivatives. For example, we may hedge a portfolio of common stock by taking an
offsetting position in a related equity-index futures contract. The ability to
manage an exposure may, however, be limited by adverse changes in the liquidity
of the security or the related hedge instrument and in the correlation of price
movements between the security and related hedge instrument.
 
     In addition to applying business judgment, senior management uses a number
of quantitative tools to manage our exposure to market risk. These tools
include:
 
- - risk limits based on a summary measure of market risk exposure referred to as
  Value-at-Risk or "VaR";
 
- - risk limits based on a scenario analysis that measures the potential effect of
  a significant widening of credit spreads on our trading net revenues;
 
- - inventory position limits for selected business units and country exposures;
  and
 
- - scenario analyses which measure the potential effect on our trading net
  revenues of abnormal market movements.
 
     We also estimate the broader potential impact of a sustained market
downturn on our investment banking and merchant banking activities.
 
     VaR.  VaR is the potential loss in value of Goldman Sachs' trading
positions due to adverse movements in markets over a defined time horizon with a
specified confidence level.
 
     For the VaR numbers reported below, a one-day time horizon and a 95%
confidence level were used. This means that there is a one in 20 chance that
daily trading net revenues will fall below the expected daily trading net
revenues by an amount at least as large as the reported VaR. Thus, shortfalls
from expected trading net revenues on a single trading day greater than the
reported VaR would be anticipated to occur, on average, about once a month.
Shortfalls on a single day can exceed reported VaR by significant amounts.
Shortfalls can also accumulate over a longer time horizon such as a number of
consecutive trading days. For a discussion of the limitations of our risk
measures, see "Risk Factors -- Our Risk Management Policies and Procedures May
Leave Us Exposed to Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk".
 
     The VaR numbers below are shown separately for interest rate, currency,
equity and
 
                                       56
<PAGE>   83
 
commodity products, as well as for our overall trading positions.
 
     These VaR numbers include the underlying product positions and related
hedges, which may include positions in other product areas. For example, the
hedge of a foreign exchange forward may include an interest rate futures
position and the hedge of a long corporate bond position may include a short
position in the related equity.
 
     VaR METHODOLOGY, ASSUMPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.  The modeling of the risk
characteristics of our trading positions involves a number of assumptions and
approximations. While management believes that these assumptions and
approximations are reasonable, there is no uniform industry methodology for
estimating VaR, and different assumptions and/or approximations could produce
materially different VaR estimates.
 
     We use historical data to estimate our VaR and, to better reflect asset
volatilities and correlations, these historical data are weighted to give
greater importance to more recent observations. Given its reliance on historical
data, VaR is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which
there are no sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions. An
inherent limitation of VaR is that past changes in market risk factors, even
when weighted toward more recent observations, may not produce accurate
predictions of future market risk. For example, the asset volatilities to which
we were exposed in the second half of 1998 were substantially larger than those
reflected in the historical data used during that time period to estimate our
VaR. Moreover, VaR calculated for a one-day time horizon does not fully capture
the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or offset with hedges
within one day.
 
     VaR also should be evaluated in light of the methodology's other
limitations. For example, when calculating the VaR numbers shown below, we
assume that asset returns are normally distributed. Non-linear risk exposures on
options and the potentially mitigating impact of intra-day changes in related
hedges would likely produce non-normal asset returns. Different distributional
assumptions could produce a materially different VaR.
 
     The following table sets forth our daily VaR for substantially all of our
trading positions:
 
                                   DAILY VaR
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               AS OF
                                                              NOVEMBER
RISK CATEGORIES                                                 1998
- ---------------                                               --------
<S>                                                           <C>
Interest rates..............................................   $ 27.3
Currency rates..............................................      9.0
Equity prices...............................................     25.3
Commodity prices............................................      7.0
Diversification effect(1)...................................    (25.7)
                                                               ------
Firmwide....................................................   $ 42.9
                                                               ======
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Equals the difference between firmwide daily VaR and the sum of the daily
    VaRs for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the four
    market risk categories are not perfectly correlated.
                            ------------------------
 
     The daily VaR for substantially all of our trading positions as of February
1999 was not materially different from our daily VaR as of November 1998.
 
     For a discussion of what our daily VaR would have been as of November 1998
had we used our volatility and correlation data as of May 29, 1998, see
"Business -- Trading and Principal Investments -- Trading Risk
Management -- Risk Reduction".
 
                                       57
<PAGE>   84
 
NON-TRADING RISK
 
     The market risk associated with our non-trading financial instruments,
including investments in our merchant banking funds, is measured using a
sensitivity analysis that estimates the potential reduction in our net revenues
associated with hypothetical market movements. As of February 1999 and November
1998, non-trading market risk was not material.
 
RECENT ENHANCEMENTS TO RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     While VaR continues to be a core tool in our risk management process,
management has increased its emphasis on the supplemental measures described
below:
 
- - CREDIT SPREAD LIMITS.  In addition to VaR, the Firmwide Risk Committee now
  sets market risk limits based on a scenario analysis of widening credit
  spreads similar to those experienced in the second half of 1998; and
 
- - SCENARIO ANALYSES.  Management is using scenario analyses that reflect more
  extreme market conditions, such as large increases in market volatility as
  well as substantial and sustained adverse movements in the volatility and
  correlation of our relative value positions.
 
     Notwithstanding these measures, we continue to hold trading positions that
are substantial in both number and size, and are subject to significant market
risk. In addition, management may choose to increase Goldman Sachs' risk levels
in the future. See "Risk Factors -- Market Fluctuations Could Harm Our
Businesses in Many Ways and, Consequently, Could Lower the Value of an
Investment in the Notes" and "-- Our Risk Management Policies and Procedures May
Leave Us Exposed to Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk" for a discussion of the
risks associated with our trading positions.
 
VALUATION OF TRADING INVENTORY
 
     Substantially all of our inventory positions are marked-to-market on a
daily basis and changes are recorded in net revenues. The individual business
units are responsible for pricing the positions they manage. The Controllers
Department, in conjunction with the Firmwide Risk Department, regularly performs
pricing reviews.
 
TRADING NET REVENUES DISTRIBUTION
 
     The following chart sets forth the frequency distribution for substantially
all of our daily trading net revenues for the year ended November 1998:
 
                           DAILY TRADING NET REVENUES
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
  DAILY TRADING NET REVENUES
  IN MILLIONS OF DOLLARS                                                    NUMBER OF DAYS
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                <C>
 less than (60) ..........................................................          9
 (60)-(40) ...............................................................          5
 (40)-(20) ...............................................................         22
 (20)-0 ..................................................................         31
 0-20 ....................................................................         87
 20-40 ...................................................................         67
 40-60 ...................................................................         24
 greater than 60 .........................................................          6
</TABLE>
 
              DAILY TRADING NET REVENUES (IN MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
 
                                       58
<PAGE>   85
 
CREDIT RISK
 
     Credit risk represents the loss that we would incur if a counterparty or
issuer of securities or other instruments we hold fails to perform its
contractual obligations to us. To reduce our credit exposures, we seek to enter
into netting agreements with counterparties that permit us to offset receivables
and payables with such counterparties. We do not take into account any such
agreements when calculating credit risk, however, unless management believes a
legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable master netting agreement.
 
     For most businesses, counterparty credit limits are established by the
Credit Department, which is independent of the revenue-producing departments,
based on guidelines set by the Firmwide Risk and Credit Policy Committees. Our
global credit management systems monitor current and potential credit exposure
to individual counterparties and on an aggregate basis to counterparties and
their affiliates. The systems also provide management with information regarding
overall credit risk by product, industry sector, country and region.
 
RISK LIMITS
 
     Business unit risk limits are established by the risk committees and may be
further segmented by the business unit managers to individual trading desks.
 
     Market risk limits are monitored on a daily basis by the Firmwide Risk
Department and are reviewed regularly by the appropriate risk committee. Limit
violations are reported to the appropriate risk committee and the appropriate
business unit managers.
 
     Inventory position limits are monitored by the Controllers Department and
position limit violations are reported to the appropriate business unit managers
and the Finance Committee. When inventory position limits are used to monitor
market risk, they are also monitored by the Firmwide Risk Department and
violations are reported to the appropriate risk committee.
 
DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS
 
     Derivative contracts are financial instruments, such as futures, forwards,
swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from underlying assets,
indices, reference rates or a combination of these factors. Derivative
instruments may be entered into by Goldman Sachs in privately negotiated
contracts, which are often referred to as over-the-counter derivatives, or they
may be listed and traded on an exchange.
 
     Most of our derivative transactions are entered into for trading purposes.
We use derivatives in our trading activities to facilitate customer
transactions, to take proprietary positions and as a means of risk management.
We also enter into non-trading derivative contracts to manage the interest rate
and currency exposure on our long-term borrowings.
 
     Derivatives are used in many of our businesses, and we believe that the
associated market risk can only be understood relative to the underlying assets
or risks being hedged, or as part of a broader trading strategy. Accordingly,
the market risk of derivative positions is managed with all of our other
non-derivative risk.
 
     Derivative contracts are reported on a net-by-counterparty basis on our
consolidated statements of financial condition where management believes a legal
right of setoff exists under an enforceable master netting agreement.
 
     For an over-the-counter derivative, our credit exposure is directly with
our counterparty and continues until the maturity or termination of such
contract.
 
     The following table sets forth the distribution, by credit rating, of
substantially all of our exposure with respect to over-the-counter derivatives
as of November 1998, after taking into consideration the effect of netting
agreements. The categories shown reflect our internally determined public rating
agency equivalents.
 
                                       59
<PAGE>   86
 
                  OVER-THE-COUNTER DERIVATIVE CREDIT EXPOSURES
                                ($ in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
CREDIT RATING EQUIVALENT                                    AMOUNT        PERCENTAGE
- ------------------------                                    ------        ----------
<S>                                                     <C>               <C>
AAA/Aaa...............................................      $ 2,170           12%
AA/Aa2................................................        5,571           30
A/A2..................................................        4,876           26
BBB/Baa2..............................................        3,133           17
BB/Ba2 or lower.......................................        1,970           11
Unrated(1)............................................          730            4
                                                            -------          ---
                                                            $18,450          100%
                                                            =======          ===
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) In lieu of making an individual assessment of such counterparties' credit,
    we make a determination that the collateral held in respect of such
    obligations is sufficient to cover our exposure. In making this
    determination, we take into account various factors, including legal
    uncertainties and market volatility.
 
                            ------------------------
 
     As of November 1998, we held approximately $2.97 billion in collateral
against these over-the-counter derivative exposures. This collateral consists
predominantly of cash and U.S. government and agency securities and is usually
received by us under agreements entitling us to require additional collateral
upon specified increases in exposure or the occurrence of negative credit
events.
 
     In addition to obtaining collateral and seeking netting agreements, we
attempt to mitigate default risk on derivatives by entering into agreements that
enable us to terminate or reset the terms of transactions after specified time
periods or upon the occurrence of credit-related events, and by seeking third-
party guarantees of the obligations of some counterparties.
 
     Derivatives transactions may also involve the legal risk that they are not
authorized or appropriate for a counterparty, that documentation has not been
properly executed or that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the
counterparty. We attempt to minimize these risks by obtaining advice of counsel
on the enforceability of agreements as well as on the authority of a
counterparty to effect the derivative transaction.
 
OPERATIONAL AND YEAR 2000 RISKS
 
     OPERATIONAL RISK.  Goldman Sachs may face reputational damage, financial
loss or regulatory risk in the event of an operational failure or error. A
systems failure or failure to enter a trade properly into our records may result
in an inability to settle transactions in a timely manner or a breach of
regulatory requirements. Settlement errors or delays may cause losses due to
damages owed to counterparties or movements in prices. These operational and
systems risks may arise in connection with our own systems or as a result of the
failure of an agent acting on our behalf.
 
     The Global Operations Department is responsible for establishing,
maintaining and approving policies and controls with respect to the accurate
inputting and processing of transactions, clearance and settlement of
transactions, the custody of securities and other instruments and the detection
and prevention of employee errors or improper or fraudulent activities. Its
personnel work closely with the Information Technology Department in creating
systems to enable appropriate supervision and management of its policies. The
Global Operations Department is also responsible, together with other areas of
Goldman Sachs, including the Legal and Compliance Departments, for ensuring
compliance with applicable regulations with respect to the clearance and
settlement of transactions and the margining of positions. The Network
Management Department oversees our relationships with our clearance and
settlement agents, regularly reviews agents'
 
                                       60
<PAGE>   87
 
performance and meets with these agents to review operational issues.
 
     YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE.  Goldman Sachs has determined that it will
be required to modify or replace portions of its information technology systems,
both hardware and software, and its non-information technology systems so that
they will properly recognize and utilize dates beyond December 31, 1999. We
presently believe that with modifications to existing software, conversions to
new software and replacement of some hardware, the Year 2000 issue will be
satisfactorily resolved in our own systems worldwide. However, if such
modifications and conversions are not made or are not completed on a timely
basis, the Year 2000 issue would have a material adverse effect on Goldman
Sachs. Moreover, even if these changes are successful, failure of third parties
to which we are financially or operationally linked to address their own Year
2000 problems would also have a material adverse effect on Goldman Sachs. For a
description of the Year 2000 issue and some of the related risks, including
possible problems that could arise, see "Risk Factors -- Our Computer Systems
and Those of Third Parties May Not Achieve Year 2000 Readiness -- Year 2000
Readiness Disclosure".
 
     Recognizing the broad scope and complexity of the Year 2000 problem, we
have established a Year 2000 Oversight Committee to promote awareness and ensure
the active participation of senior management. This Committee, together with
numerous sub-committees chaired by senior managers throughout Goldman Sachs and
our Global Year 2000 Project Office, is responsible for planning, managing and
monitoring our Year 2000 efforts on a global basis. Our Management Controls
Department assesses the scope and sufficiency of our Year 2000 program and
verifies that the principal aspects of our Year 2000 program are being
implemented according to plan.
 
     Our Year 2000 plans are based on a five-phase approach, which includes
awareness; inventory, assessment and planning; remediation; testing; and
implementation. The awareness phase (in which we defined the scope and
components of the problem, our methodology and approach and obtained senior
management support and funding) was completed in September 1997. We also
completed the inventory, assessment and planning phase for our systems in
September 1997. By the end of March 1999, we completed the remediation, testing
and implementation phases for 99% of our mission-critical systems, and we plan
to complete these three phases for the remaining 1% by the end of June 1999. In
March 1999, we completed the first cycle of our internal integration testing
with respect to critical securities and transaction flows. This cycle, which
related to U.S. products, was completed successfully with no material problem.
The remaining cycle, which will relate primarily to non-U.S. products, is to be
completed in June 1999. This testing is intended to validate that our systems
can successfully perform critical business functions beginning in January 2000.
With respect to our non-mission-critical systems, we expect to complete our Year
2000 efforts during calendar 1999.
 
     For technology products that are supplied by third-party vendors, we have
completed an inventory, ranked products according to their importance and
developed a strategy for achieving Year 2000 readiness for substantially all
non-compliant versions of software and hardware. While this process included
collecting information from vendors, we are not relying solely on vendors'
verifications that their products are Year 2000 compliant or ready. As of March
31, 1999, we had substantially completed testing and implementation of
vendor-supplied technology products that we consider mission-critical. With
respect to telecommunications carriers, we are relying on information provided
by these vendors as to whether they are Year 2000 compliant because these
vendors have indicated that they will not test with individual companies.
 
     We are also addressing Year 2000 issues that may exist outside our own
technology activities, including our facilities, external service providers and
other third parties with which we interface. We have inventoried and ranked our
customers, business and trading partners, utilities, exchanges, depositories,
clearing and custodial banks and other third
 
                                       61
<PAGE>   88
parties with which we have important financial and operational relationships. We
are continuing to assess the Year 2000 preparedness of these customers, business
and trading partners and other third parties.
 
     By the end of March 1999, we had participated in approximately 115
"external", i.e., industry-wide or point-to-point, tests with exchanges,
clearing houses and other industry utilities, as well as the "Beta" test
sponsored by the Securities Industry Association for its U.S. members in July
1998. We successfully completed all of these tests, as well as the Securities
Industry Association "Streetwide" test in April 1999, with no material problems.
By the end of June 1999, we expect to have participated in approximately 60
additional external tests, including major industry tests in those global
markets where we conduct significant business.
 
     Acknowledging that a Year 2000 failure, whether internal or external, could
have an adverse effect on the ability to conduct day-to-day business, we are
employing a comprehensive and global approach to contingency planning. Our
contingency planning objective is to identify potential system failure points
that support processes that are critical to our mission and to develop
contingency plans for those failures that may reasonably be expected to occur,
with the general goal of ensuring, to the maximum extent practical, that minimum
acceptable levels of service can be maintained by us. In the event of system
failures, our contingency plans will not guarantee that existing levels of
service will be fully maintained, especially if these failures involve external
systems or processes over which we have little or no direct control or involve
multiple failures across a variety of systems.
 
     We anticipate that contingency plans for our core business units will be
substantially completed during June 1999, and by September 30, 1999 for the rest
of our businesses. In addition, we are developing contingency plans for funding
and balance sheet management and other related activities. We expect our
contingency plans to include establishing additional sources of liquidity that
could be drawn upon in the event of systems disruption. We are also developing a
crisis management group to guide us through the transition period. We expect to
reduce trading activity in the period leading up to January 2000 to minimize the
impact of potential Year 2000-related failures. A reduction in trading activity
by us or by other market participants in anticipation of possible Year 2000
problems could adversely affect our results of operations, as discussed under
"Risk Factors -- Our Computer Systems and Those of Third Parties May Not Achieve
Year 2000 Readiness -- Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure".
 
     We have incurred and expect to continue to incur expenses allocable to
internal staff, as well as costs for outside consultants, to complete the
remediation and testing of internally developed systems and the replacement and
testing of third-party products and services, including non-technology products
and services, in order to achieve Year 2000 compliance. We currently estimate
that these costs will total approximately $150 million, a substantial majority
of which has been spent to date. These estimates include the cost of technology
personnel but do not include the cost of most non-technology personnel involved
in our Year 2000 effort. The remaining cost of our Year 2000 program is expected
to be incurred in 1999 and early 2000. The Year 2000 program costs will continue
to be funded through operating cash flow. These costs are expensed as incurred.
We do not expect that the costs associated with implementing our Year 2000
program will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations,
financial condition, liquidity or capital resources.
 
     The costs of the Year 2000 program and the date on which we plan to
complete the Year 2000 modifications are based on current estimates, which
reflect numerous assumptions about future events, including the continued
availability of resources, the timing and effectiveness of third-party
remediation plans and other factors. We can give no assurance that these
estimates will be achieved, and actual results could differ materially from our
plans. Specific factors that might cause material differences include, but are
not limited to, the availability and cost of personnel trained in this area, the
ability to locate and correct
 
                                       62
<PAGE>   89
 
relevant computer source codes and embedded chip technology, the results of
internal and external testing and the timeliness and effectiveness of
remediation efforts of third parties.
 
     In order to focus attention on the Year 2000 problem, management has
deferred several technology projects that address other issues. However, we do
not believe that this deferral will have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations or financial condition.
 
                            ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS
 
     In June 1996, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 125, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing
of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities", effective for
transactions occurring after December 31, 1996. Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 125 establishes standards for distinguishing transfers
of financial assets that are accounted for as sales from transfers that are
accounted for as secured borrowings.
 
     The provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125
relating to repurchase agreements, securities lending transactions and other
similar transactions were deferred by the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 127, "Deferral of the Effective Date of Certain
Provisions of FASB Statement No. 125", and became effective for transactions
entered into after December 31, 1997. This Statement requires that the
collateral obtained in certain types of secured lending transactions be recorded
on the balance sheet with a corresponding liability reflecting the obligation to
return such collateral to its owner. Effective January 1, 1998, we adopted the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125 that were
deferred by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 127. The adoption of
this standard increased our total assets and liabilities by $8.99 billion and
$11.64 billion as of February 1999 and November 1998, respectively.
 
     In February 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings Per Share", effective for
periods ending after December 15, 1997, with restatement required for all prior
periods. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128 establishes new
standards for computing and presenting earnings per share. This Statement
replaces primary and fully diluted earnings per share with "basic earnings per
share", which excludes dilution, and "diluted earnings per share", which
includes the effect of all potentially dilutive common shares and other dilutive
securities. Because we have not historically reported earnings per share, this
Statement will have no impact on our historical financial statements. This
Statement will, however, apply to our financial statements that are prepared
after our common stock offering. See "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
Information" for a calculation of pro forma earnings per share.
 
     In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information", effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1997, with reclassification of earlier periods required for
comparative purposes. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131
establishes the criteria for determining an operating segment and establishes
the disclosure requirements for reporting information about operating segments.
We intend to adopt this standard at the end of fiscal 1999. This Statement is
limited to issues of reporting and presentation and, therefore, will not affect
our results of operations or financial condition.
 
     In February 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 132, "Employers' Disclosures about
Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits", effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1997, with restatement of disclosures for earlier
periods required for comparative purposes. Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 132 revises certain employers' disclosures about pension and other
post-
 
                                       63
<PAGE>   90
 
retirement benefit plans. We intend to adopt this standard at the end of fiscal
1999. This Statement is limited to issues of reporting and presentation and,
therefore, will not affect our results of operations or financial condition.
 
     In March 1998, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of Position No. 98-1,
"Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for
Internal Use", effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1998.
Statement of Position No. 98-1 requires that certain costs of computer software
developed or obtained for internal use be capitalized and amortized over the
useful life of the related software. We currently expense the cost of all
software development in the period in which it is incurred. We intend to adopt
this Statement in fiscal 2000 and are currently assessing its effect.
 
     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities", effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15,
1999. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 establishes accounting
and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative
instruments embedded in other contracts (collectively referred to as
derivatives), and for hedging activities. This Statement requires that an entity
recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of
financial condition and measure those instruments at fair value. The accounting
for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on its intended
use and the resulting designation. We intend to adopt this standard in fiscal
2000 and are currently assessing its effect.
 
                                       64
<PAGE>   91
 
                         INDUSTRY AND ECONOMIC OUTLOOK
 
     As a global provider of financial services, Goldman Sachs is affected by
overall macroeconomic and market conditions in various regions around the world.
For a number of years, we have operated in a generally favorable macroeconomic
environment characterized by low inflation, low and declining interest rates and
strong equity markets. In particular, the U.S. economy, the largest in the world
and an important influence on overall world economic activity, has been
undergoing one of the longest periods of post-war economic expansion. As of
March 1999, the current U.S. expansion had lasted 96 months compared to a
post-war average period of expansion of 46 months.
 
     Recognizing that the favorable macroeconomic and market environments will
be subject to periodic reversals, which may significantly and adversely affect
our businesses, we believe that significant growth and profit opportunities
exist for financial intermediaries in the United States and abroad. These
opportunities derive from several long-term trends, including the following:
 
- - DEREGULATION.  Financial market deregulation, including the elimination of
  bank deposit interest rate ceilings and the expansion of commercial banks and
  other financial institutions into securities underwriting activities, has
  resulted in the creation of new and broader sources of credit, which have
  reduced the variability and the cyclicality in the supply of credit. This, in
  turn, has in the past reduced volatility in economic activity, leading to
  longer economic expansions with increased investment spending, resulting in
  higher levels of capital raising;
 
- - GLOBALIZATION.  Heightened global competition has created a need for
  cross-border capabilities and economies of scale, resulting in increased joint
  venture and mergers and acquisitions activity;
 
- - FOCUS ON SHAREHOLDER VALUE.  Increasing focus on shareholder value has fueled
  an increase in restructuring and strategic initiatives, yielding additional
  financial advisory and capital-raising opportunities;
 
- - CONSOLIDATION.  Moderate growth, limited pricing flexibility and the need for
  economies of scale have substantially increased consolidation opportunities in
  certain industries, and record levels of profit have provided companies with
  the resources to pursue strategic combinations, creating substantial demand
  for mergers and acquisitions advisory services and subsequent capital raising;
 
- - DEMOGRAPHICS.  Changing demographics in the United States and other developed
  economies have increased the pool of savings available for private investment
  and the need for increased funding of pension plans due to the aging of the
  population, creating substantial demand for investment products and services;
  and
 
- - FINANCIAL PRODUCT INNOVATION.  Technology and financial expertise have led to
  the development of new financial products better tailored to the risk/reward
  requirements of investors, increasing trading flows and proprietary investment
  opportunities.
 
     We believe that over the last 15 years these trends, coupled with generally
declining interest rates and favorable market conditions, have contributed to a
substantially higher rate of growth in activity in the financial services
industry than the growth in overall economic activity. The future economic
environment may not be as favorable as that experienced in the last 15 years
and, in particular, the period of declining interest rates in the United States
may not continue. There may also be periods of adverse economic and market
conditions. Nonetheless, we believe that these trends should continue to affect
the financial services industry positively over the long term. However, see
"Risk Factors -- Market Fluctuations Could Harm Our Businesses in Many Ways and,
Consequently, Could Lower the Value of an Investment in the Notes" for a
discussion of the effect that adverse economic conditions and market
fluctuations can have on our businesses.
 
                                       65
<PAGE>   92
 
     The following table sets forth selected key industry indicators:
 
                            KEY INDUSTRY INDICATORS
                 ($ in billions, except gross domestic product)
                         (volume in millions of shares)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      AS OF OR FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                     --------------------------------------    CAGR(8)
                                                      1983      1988      1993       1998      '83-'98
                                                      ----      ----      ----       ----      -------
<S>                                                  <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>
GENERAL ECONOMIC ACTIVITY:
(in trillions)
Worldwide gross domestic product(1)................  $   10    $   18    $    24    $    29(9)    8%(9)
U.S. gross domestic product(2).....................       4         5          7          9       6
 
ADVISORY ACTIVITIES/FINANCING:
Worldwide mergers and acquisitions(3)..............      96       527        460      2,522      24
Worldwide equity issued(3).........................      50        51        172        269      12
Worldwide debt issued(3)...........................     146       631      1,546      2,932      22
 
WORLD EQUITY MARKETS:
Worldwide equity market capitalization(4)..........   3,384     9,728     14,016     27,459      15
U.S. market capitalization(4)......................   1,898     2,794      5,136     13,451      14
FT/S&P Actuaries World Indices(TM) -- The World
  Index(5).........................................      NA       129        178        359      11
Dow Jones Industrial Average.......................   1,259     2,169      3,754      9,181      14
S&P 500............................................     165       278        466      1,229      14
NYSE average daily volume..........................      85       162        265        674      15
 
INVESTED FUNDS:
Worldwide pension assets(6)........................  $1,900    $3,752    $ 6,560    $10,975      12
Number of U.S. mutual funds(7).....................   1,026     2,715      4,558      7,343      14
U.S. mutual fund assets(7).........................  $  293    $  810    $ 2,075    $ 5,530      22
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Source: The Economist Intelligence Unit, January 1999.
(2) Source: U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis.
(3) Source: Securities Data Company.
(4) Source: International Finance Corporation.
(5) Index is calculated on a local currency basis based on total returns. CAGR
    is based on 1988-1998 data. The FT/S&P Actuaries World Indices are owned by
    FTSE International Limited, Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Standard & Poor's
    Ratings Services. The Indices are compiled by FTSE International and
    Standard & Poor's Ratings Services in conjunction with the Faculty of
    Actuaries and the Institute of Actuaries.
(6) Source: InterSec Research Corp.
(7) Source: Investment Company Institute.
(8) Compound annual growth rate.
(9) Data as of December 31, 1997; CAGR 1983-1997.
 
                                       66
<PAGE>   93
 
     We believe scale, global resources and leading market positions are
important competitive advantages for financial intermediaries in this
environment. In addition, we believe that circumstances in certain regions
should provide opportunities for financial intermediaries.
 
                                     EUROPE
 
     The European Economic and Monetary Union commenced on January 1, 1999 and
created a monetary union in Europe with a single currency. As a result, we
believe that over time a pan-European capital market will develop that is likely
to rival that of the United States in size and liquidity. We believe that
financial intermediaries generally are expected to benefit from a number of
anticipated developments, including:
 
- - pan-European consolidation and financial restructuring yielding an increase in
  mergers and acquisitions activity;
 
- - an increase in third-party assets under management and a major shift towards
  investments in equity securities due to an expected move to private pension
  fund systems, changing demographics and the elimination of intra-European
  Economic and Monetary Union currency risk;
 
- - a reallocation of equity portfolios to reflect pan-European indices;
 
- - the establishment of a European high-yield market to fund the growth of
  emerging high-growth industries and to satisfy investors' demands for higher
  yield; and
 
- - increased equity issuance and higher equity trading volumes.
 
                                      ASIA
     Since 1997, the currency weakness and disruptions, the deterioration in
certain of the region's banking systems, the weakness in the property sector in
many of the region's countries, as well as slowing consumer income growth, have
led to a significant and continuing weakening of these economies and their stock
markets. These developments have adversely affected the economic and market
conditions in the region and at times have affected economic and market
conditions elsewhere. We believe, however, that financial intermediaries could
have significant opportunities in this region if stability improves and the
economies, which represent approximately 60% of the world's population, resume
their growth. In the near term, these potential opportunities could include:
 
- -  an increase in mergers and acquisitions and other financial advisory services
   in connection with corporate restructurings;
 
- -  an increase in trading opportunities as financial intermediaries meet the
   liquidity needs of their clients; and
 
- -  an increase in capital raising as Asian corporations and governments access
   the international capital markets rather than the regional banking system to
   refinance and to fund future growth.
 
In the longer term, these potential opportunities could include:
 
- -  the emergence of corporate and real estate principal investment opportunities
   as a result of corporate and government restructurings; and
 
- -  an increase in third-party assets under management and a major shift towards
   investments in equity securities due to an anticipated move to private
   pension fund systems, changing demographics and the relaxation of foreign
   exchange restrictions.
 
                                       67
<PAGE>   94
 
                                    BUSINESS
 
                                    OVERVIEW
 
     Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking and securities firm
with three principal business lines:
 
- - Investment Banking;
- - Trading and Principal Investments; and
- - Asset Management and Securities Services.
 
Our goal is to be the advisor of choice for our clients and a leading
participant in global financial markets. We provide services worldwide to a
substantial and diversified client base, which includes corporations, financial
institutions, governments and high net worth individuals.
 
     Because we believe that the needs of our clients are global and that
international markets have high growth potential, we have built upon our
strength in the United States to achieve leading positions in other parts of the
world. Today, we have a strong global presence as evidenced by the geographic
breadth of our transactions, leadership in our core products and the size of our
international operations. As of February 1999, we operated offices in 23
countries and 36% of our 13,000 employees were based outside the United States.
 
     We are committed to a distinctive culture and set of core values. These
values are reflected in our Business Principles, which emphasize placing our
clients' interests first, integrity, commitment to excellence and innovation,
and teamwork.
 
     Goldman Sachs is managed by its principal owners. Simultaneously with the
closing of our common stock offering, we granted restricted stock units, stock
options and interests in a defined contribution plan to substantially all of our
employees. Upon the closing of our common stock offering, our employees,
including former partners, owned approximately 65% of Goldman Sachs. None of our
employees sold shares in our common stock offering.
 
     Goldman Sachs is the successor to a commercial paper business founded in
1869 by Marcus Goldman. Since then, we have grown our business as a participant
and intermediary in securities and other financial activities to become one of
the leading firms in the industry.
 
     In 1989, The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. was formed to serve as the parent
company of the Goldman Sachs organization. As of November 30, 1996, The Goldman
Sachs Group, L.P. was restructured. On that date, the non-retiring former
general partners of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. converted their general
partner interests into limited partner interests and became profit participating
limited partners of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. Concurrently, The Goldman
Sachs Corporation was admitted as The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.'s sole general
partner. The common stock of The Goldman Sachs Corporation was owned by our
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners, all of whom
were active in our businesses.
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. was formed to succeed to the business of The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. Simultaneously with the closing of our common stock
offering, we completed a number of transactions in order to convert from
partnership to corporate form. See "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions" for additional information concerning these transactions.
 
                               MARKET SHARE DATA
 
     Except as otherwise indicated, all amounts with respect to the volume,
number and market share of mergers and acquisitions and underwriting
transactions and related ranking information have been derived from information
compiled and classified by Securities Data Company. Securities Data Company
obtains and gathers its information from sources it considers reliable, but
Securities Data Company does not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of the
information. In the case of mergers and acquisitions, data are based upon the
dollar value of announced transactions for the period indicated, taken as a
whole, with full credit to each of the advisors to each party in a transaction.
In the
 
                                       68
<PAGE>   95
 
case of underwritings, data are based upon the dollar value of total proceeds
raised (exclusive of any option to purchase additional shares) with equal credit
to each bookrunner for the period indicated, taken as a whole. As a result of
this method of compiling data, percentages may add to more than 100%.
 
                     STRATEGY AND PRINCIPAL BUSINESS LINES
 
     Our strategy is to grow our three core businesses -- Investment Banking,
Trading and Principal Investments, and Asset Management and Securities
Services -- in markets throughout the world. Our leadership position in
investment banking provides us with access to governments, financial
institutions and corporate clients globally. Trading and principal investing has
been an important part of our culture and earnings, and we remain committed to
these businesses irrespective of their volatility. Managing wealth is one of the
fastest growing segments of the financial services industry and we are
positioning our asset management and securities services businesses to take
advantage of that growth. Our assets under supervision, for example, have grown
from $92.7 billion as of November 1994 to $369.7 billion as of February 1999,
representing a compound annual growth rate of 38%.
 
     Our business lines are comprised of various product and service offerings
that are set forth in the following chart:
 
                PRIMARY PRODUCTS AND ACTIVITIES BY BUSINESS LINE
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    TRADING AND PRINCIPAL            ASSET MANAGEMENT AND
      INVESTMENT BANKING                 INVESTMENTS                 SECURITIES SERVICES
      ------------------            ---------------------            --------------------
<S>                             <C>                             <C>
- -- Equity and debt              -- Bank loans                   -- Commissions
   underwriting                 -- Commodities                  -- Institutional and high net
- -- Financial restructuring      -- Currencies                      worth asset management
   advisory services            -- Equity and fixed income      -- Margin lending
- -- Mergers and acquisitions        derivatives                  -- Matched book
   advisory services            -- Equity and fixed income      -- Merchant banking fees
- -- Real estate advisory            securities                   -- Increased shares of
   services                     -- Principal investments           merchant banking fund income
                                -- Proprietary arbitrage           and gains
                                                                -- Mutual funds
                                                                -- Prime brokerage
                                                                -- Securities lending
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
INVESTMENT BANKING
 
     Investment Banking represented 39% of 1998 net revenues and 35% of 1997 net
revenues. We are a market leader in both the financial advisory and underwriting
businesses, serving over 3,000 clients worldwide. For the period January 1, 1994
to December 31, 1998, we had the industry-leading market share of 25.3% in
worldwide mergers and acquisitions advisory services, having advised on over
$1.7 trillion of transactions. Over the same period, we also achieved number one
market shares of 15.2% in underwriting worldwide initial public offerings and
14.4% in underwriting worldwide common stock issues.
 
TRADING AND PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS
 
     Trading and Principal Investments represented 28% of 1998 net revenues and
39% of 1997 net revenues. We make markets in equity and fixed income products,
currencies and commodities; enter into swaps and other derivative transactions;
engage in proprietary trading and arbitrage; and make principal investments. In
trading, we focus on building lasting relationships with our most active clients
while maintaining leadership positions in our key markets. We believe our
research, market-making and proprietary activities enhance our understanding of
markets and ability to serve our clients.
 
ASSET MANAGEMENT AND SECURITIES SERVICES
 
     Asset Management and Securities Services represented 33% of 1998 net
revenues and 26% of 1997 net revenues. We provide global investment management
and advisory services; earn commissions on agency transactions; manage merchant
banking funds; and provide prime brokerage, securities lending and financing
services. Our asset manage-
 
                                       69
<PAGE>   96
 
ment business has grown rapidly, with assets under supervision increasing from
$92.7 billion as of November 25, 1994 to $369.7 billion as of February 26, 1999,
representing a compound annual growth rate of 38%. As of February 26, 1999, we
had $206.4 billion of assets under management. We manage merchant banking funds
that had $15.5 billion of capital commitments as of the end of 1998.
 
     We pursue our strategy to grow our three core businesses through an
emphasis on:
 
EXPANDING HIGH VALUE-ADDED BUSINESSES
 
     To achieve strong growth and high returns, we seek to build leadership
positions in high value-added services for our clients. For example, we have
substantially increased the number of professionals in investment banking to
improve and expand our ability to execute mergers and acquisitions, initial
public offerings and high-yield financings. In trading, we structure and execute
large and complex transactions for institutional investors, pension funds and
corporate clients around the world. In asset management, we emphasize equity and
alternative investment products and use our established international presence
to build a global asset management franchise.
 
INCREASING THE STABILITY OF OUR EARNINGS
 
     We seek to balance the stability of our earnings with return on equity and
long-term earnings growth. We believe our trading businesses are key ingredients
to our success. While we plan to continue to grow our trading businesses, the
financial market shocks of the past year underscored the importance of our
strategy of emphasizing growth in our investment banking, asset management and
securities services businesses. Through a greater relative emphasis on these
businesses, our goal is to gradually increase the stability of our earnings.
 
PURSUING INTERNATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
 
     We believe that our global reach will allow us to take advantage of growth
in international markets. In Europe, for example, we anticipate that the recent
establishment of the European Economic and Monetary Union will, over time,
create a large pan-European market rivaling the U.S. capital markets in size and
liquidity. We believe this will generate increased activity across our
businesses in the region. In Asia, we believe that an increase in corporate
restructurings and in the need for liquidity will increase our mergers and
acquisitions and trading opportunities. In the longer term, we anticipate
additional opportunities in asset management activities due to a shift we
anticipate toward the privatization of pension systems and in demographics.
 
LEVERAGING THE FRANCHISE
 
     We believe our various businesses are generally stronger and more
successful because they are part of the Goldman Sachs franchise. Our culture of
teamwork fosters cooperation among our businesses, which allows us to provide
our clients with a full range of products and services on a coordinated basis.
Our investment bankers, for example, refer clients who are selling their
businesses to those in Goldman Sachs who manage wealth. In addition, our
merchant banking investments in companies lead to future clients for investment
banking.
 
                             COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS
 
STRONG CLIENT RELATIONSHIPS
 
     We focus on building long-term client relationships. In 1998, over 75% of
our Investment Banking revenues represented business from existing clients. We
also aggressively pursue new client relationships as evidenced by the over 400
investment banking transactions we completed for first-time clients in 1998. In
our trading businesses, we structure and execute transactions across a wide
array of markets and countries to meet our clients' needs. In our asset
management business, we managed assets for three of the five largest pension
pools in the United States as ranked as of September 30, 1998 by Pensions &
Investments and maintain accounts for 41% of the 1998 "Forbes 400 List of the
Richest Americans".
 
DISTINCTIVE PEOPLE AND CULTURE
 
     Our most important asset is our people. We seek to reinforce our employees'
commit-
                                       70
<PAGE>   97
 
ment to our culture and values through recruiting, training, a comprehensive
360-degree review system and a compensation philosophy that rewards teamwork. We
were ranked number seven in Fortune magazine's "The 100 Best Companies to Work
for in America" in January 1999 and were ranked number three in Fortune
magazine's 1999 "The Top 50 MBA Dream Companies", the highest-ranked investment
banking and securities firm in each case.
 
GLOBAL REACH
 
     Over the past decade, we have made a significant commitment to building a
worldwide business. We have achieved leading positions in major international
markets by capitalizing on our product knowledge and global research, as well as
by building a local presence where appropriate. In doing so, we have become one
of the few truly global investment banking and securities firms with the ability
to execute large and complex cross-border transactions. We had the number one
market share of 23.2% in cross-border mergers and acquisitions for the period
January 1, 1994 to December 31, 1998. In addition, in Japan, we were the largest
non-Japanese mutual fund manager as of the end of February 1999, according to
The Investment Trusts Association.
 
                            ------------------------
 
                             SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                         YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER             FEBRUARY
                                      --------------------------    ------------------
                                       1996      1997      1998      1998       1999
                                       ----      ----      ----      ----       ----
<S>                                   <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>
Net revenues:
  Investment Banking................  $2,113    $2,587    $3,368    $  633     $  902
  Trading and Principal
     Investments....................   2,693     2,926     2,379     1,182      1,357
  Asset Management and Securities
     Services.......................   1,323     1,934     2,773       657        736
                                      ------    ------    ------    ------     ------
Total net revenues..................  $6,129    $7,447    $8,520    $2,472     $2,995
                                      ======    ======    ======    ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
                               INVESTMENT BANKING
 
     Goldman Sachs provides a broad range of investment banking services to a
diverse group of over 3,000 clients worldwide, including corporations, financial
institutions, governments and individuals. Our investment banking activities are
divided into two categories:
 
- - FINANCIAL ADVISORY.  Financial advisory includes advisory assignments with
  respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense
  activities, restructurings and spin-offs; and
 
- - UNDERWRITING.  Underwriting includes public offerings and private placements
  of equity and debt securities.
 
                                       71
<PAGE>   98
 
     The following table sets forth the net revenues of our Investment Banking
business:
 
                        INVESTMENT BANKING NET REVENUES
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           THREE
                                                                        MONTHS ENDED
                                             YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER          FEBRUARY
                                          --------------------------    ------------
                                           1996      1997      1998     1998    1999
                                           ----      ----      ----     ----    ----
<S>                                       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>     <C>
Financial advisory......................  $  931    $1,184    $1,774    $363    $522
Underwriting............................   1,182     1,403     1,594     270     380
                                          ------    ------    ------    ----    ----
Total Investment Banking................  $2,113    $2,587    $3,368    $633    $902
                                          ======    ======    ======    ====    ====
</TABLE>
 
     In Investment Banking, we provide our clients with quality advice and
execution as part of our effort to develop and maintain long-term relationships
as their lead investment bank.
 
ORGANIZATION
 
     We have continuously adapted our organizational structure to meet changing
market dynamics and our clients' needs. Our current structure, which is
organized along regional, execution and industry groups, seeks to combine
client-focused investment bankers with execution and industry expertise. Because
our businesses are global, we have adapted our organization to meet the demands
of our clients in each geographic region. Through our commitment to teamwork, we
believe that we provide services in an integrated fashion for the benefit of our
clients.
 
     We believe an important competitive advantage in our marketing effort is
Investment Banking Services, a core group of professionals who focus on
developing and maintaining strong client relationships. These bankers, who are
organized regionally and/or by industry group, work with senior executives of
our clients to identify areas where Goldman Sachs can provide capital-raising,
financial advisory or other products and services. The broad base of experience
and knowledge of our Investment Banking Services professionals enables them to
analyze our clients' objectives efficiently and to bring to bear the appropriate
resources of Goldman Sachs to satisfy those objectives.
 
     Our Corporate Finance, Debt and Equity Capital Markets, Leveraged Finance
and Mergers and Acquisitions groups bring product expertise and innovation to
clients in a variety of industries. These groups are responsible for the
execution of specific client transactions as well as the building of strong
client relationships.
 
     In an effort to serve our clients' needs in targeted industries, we have
established several industry focus groups. These include: Chemicals;
Communications, Media and Entertainment; Energy and Power; Financial
Institutions; Healthcare; High Technology; Hotels and Gaming; Real Estate;
Retailing; and Transportation. Drawing on specialized knowledge of
industry-specific trends, these groups provide the full range of investment
banking products and services to our clients.
 
     Reflecting our commitment to innovation, Investment Banking has established
a New Products group whose professionals focus on creating new financial
products. These professionals have particular expertise in integrating finance
with accounting, tax and securities laws and work closely with other investment
banking teams to provide innovative solutions to difficult client problems. Our
structuring expertise has proven to be particularly valuable in addressing
client needs in areas such as complex cross-border mergers and acquisitions and
convertible and other hybrid equity financings.
 
FINANCIAL ADVISORY
 
     Financial advisory includes a broad range of advisory assignments with
respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense activities,
restructurings and spin-offs. Goldman Sachs is a leading invest-
                                       72
<PAGE>   99
 
ment bank in worldwide mergers and acquisitions. During calendar 1998, we
advised on 340 mergers and acquisitions transactions with a combined value of
$957 billion.
 
     Our mergers and acquisitions capabilities are evidenced by our significant
share of assignments in large, complex transactions where we provide multiple
services, including "one-stop" acquisition financing, currency hedging and
cross-border structuring expertise. Goldman Sachs advised on seven of the ten
largest mergers and acquisitions transactions through December 31, 1998. We have
also been successful in Europe, including in intra-country transactions, and we
are a leading mergers and acquisitions advisor in France, Germany and Spain.
     The following table illustrates our leadership in the mergers and
acquisitions advisory market for the indicated period taken as a whole:
 
              GOLDMAN SACHS' MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS MARKET DATA
            For the period January 1, 1994 through December 31, 1998
                                ($ in billions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 MARKET               NUMBER OF
                      CATEGORY                        RANK(1)    SHARE     VOLUME    TRANSACTIONS
                      --------                        -------    ------    ------    ------------
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>
Worldwide...........................................   1          25.3%    $1,715       1,334
Worldwide, transactions over $500 million...........   1          34.8      1,593         470
Worldwide, transactions over $1 billion.............   1          38.4      1,470         297
United States.......................................   1          32.8      1,316         907
United States, transactions over $500 million.......   1          41.3      1,228         339
United States, transactions over $1 billion.........   1          44.3      1,142         221
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
       (1) Rank in any one year during the period presented may vary from the
           rank for the period taken as a whole.
 
                            ------------------------
 
     Mergers and acquisitions is an example of how one activity can generate
cross-selling opportunities for other areas of Goldman Sachs. For example, a
client we are advising in a purchase transaction may seek our assistance in
obtaining financing and in hedging interest rate or foreign currency risks
associated with the acquisition. In the case of dispositions, owners and senior
executives of the acquired company often will seek asset management services. In
these cases, our high net worth relationship managers provide comprehensive
advice on investment alternatives and execute the client's desired strategy.
 
UNDERWRITING
 
     From January 1, 1994 through March 31, 1999, Goldman Sachs has served as
lead manager in transactions that have raised more than $1 trillion of capital
for clients worldwide. We underwrite a wide range of securities and other
instruments, including common and preferred stock, convertible securities,
investment grade debt, high-yield debt, sovereign and emerging markets debt,
municipal debt, bank loans, asset-backed securities and real estate-related
securities, such as mortgage-backed securities and the securities of real estate
investment trusts.
 
                                       73
<PAGE>   100
 
     EQUITY UNDERWRITING.  Equity underwriting has been a long-term core
strength of Goldman Sachs. The following table illustrates our leadership
position in equity underwriting for the indicated period taken as a whole:
 
                 GOLDMAN SACHS' EQUITY UNDERWRITING MARKET DATA
            For the period January 1, 1994 through December 31, 1998
                                ($ in billions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               TOTAL
                                                                     MARKET   PROCEEDS   NUMBER OF
                        CATEGORY                           RANK(1)   SHARE     RAISED    ISSUES(2)
                        --------                           -------   ------   --------   ---------
<S>                                                        <C>       <C>      <C>        <C>
Worldwide initial public offerings.......................   1         15.2%     $ 44        300
Worldwide initial public offerings, proceeds over $500
  million................................................   1         23.3        25         59
Worldwide public common stock offerings..................   1         14.4       101        634
U.S. initial public offerings............................   1         15.3        31        179
U.S. initial public offerings, proceeds over $500
  million................................................   1         30.1        16         29
U.S. public common stock offerings.......................   2         14.3        71        381
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Rank in any one year during the period presented may vary from the rank for
    the period taken as a whole.
(2) The number of issues reflects the number of tranches; an offering by a
    single issuer could have multiple tranches.
                            ------------------------
 
     As with mergers and acquisitions, we have been particularly successful in
winning mandates for large, complex equity underwritings. As evidenced in the
chart above, our market share of initial public offerings with total proceeds
over $500 million is substantially higher than our market share of all initial
public offerings. We believe our leadership in large initial public offerings
reflects our expertise in complex transactions, research strengths, track record
and distribution capabilities. In the international arena, we have also acted as
lead manager on many of the largest initial public offerings. We were named the
Asian Equity House of the Year by International Financing Review in 1998.
 
     We believe that a key factor in our equity underwriting success is the
close working relationship between the investment bankers, research analysts and
sales force as coordinated by our Equity Capital Markets group. Goldman Sachs'
equities sales force is one of the most experienced and effective sales
organizations in the industry. With 350 institutional sales professionals and
420 high net worth relationship managers located in every major market around
the world, Goldman Sachs has relationships with a large and diverse group of
investors.
 
     Global Investment Research is critical to our ability to succeed in the
equity underwriting business. We believe that high quality equity research is a
significant competitive advantage in the market for new equity issues. In this
regard, Goldman Sachs' research has been consistently ranked among the
industry's global leaders. See "-- Global Investment Research" for detailed
information regarding our Global Investment Research Department.
 
     DEBT UNDERWRITING.  We engage in the underwriting and origination of
various types of debt instruments that we broadly categorize as follows:
investment grade debt for corporations, governments, municipalities and
agencies; leveraged finance, which includes high-yield debt and bank loans for
non-investment grade issuers; emerging market debt, which includes corporate and
sovereign issues; and asset-backed securities. We have employed a focused
approach in debt underwriting, emphasizing high value-added areas in servicing
our clients.
 
     We believe that the leveraged finance market is a key growth opportunity
for our debt underwriting business. Over the last three years, we have more than
doubled the number of debt underwriting professionals dedicated to this area.
 
                                       74
<PAGE>   101
 
     The table below sets forth our rank, market position, our total proceeds
raised and the number of debt transactions in which we have acted as underwriter
in the following areas for the indicated period taken as a whole:
 
                  GOLDMAN SACHS' DEBT UNDERWRITING MARKET DATA
            For the period January 1, 1994 through December 31, 1998
                                ($ in billions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           TOTAL
                                                                MARKET    PROCEEDS    NUMBER OF
                    CATEGORY(1)                      RANK(5)    SHARE      RAISED     ISSUES(6)
                    -----------                      -------    ------    --------    ---------
<S>                                                  <C>        <C>       <C>         <C>
Worldwide debt(2)..................................     3         8.4%      $695        4,684
Worldwide straight debt(3).........................     3         8.9        559        4,165
U.S. investment grade straight debt(3).............     3        12.0        419        3,590
U.S. investment grade industrial straight
  debt(3)..........................................     1        19.5         81          517
U.S. high-yield debt(4)............................     5         8.0         33          184
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) All categories include publicly registered and Rule 144A issues.
(2) Includes non-convertible preferred stock, mortgage-backed securities,
    asset-backed securities and taxable municipal debt.
(3) "Straight debt" excludes non-convertible preferred stock, mortgage-backed
    securities, asset-backed securities and municipal debt.
(4) Excludes issues with both investment grade and non-investment grade ratings,
    often referred to as "split-rated issues".
(5) Rank in any one year during the period presented may vary from the rank for
    the period taken as a whole.
(6) The number of issues reflects the number of tranches; an offering by a
    single issuer could have multiple tranches.
 
                            ------------------------
 
                       TRADING AND PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS
 
     Our Trading and Principal Investments business facilitates customer
transactions and takes proprietary positions through market-making in and
trading of fixed income and equity products, currencies, commodities, and swaps
and other derivatives. In order to meet the needs of our clients, our Trading
and Principal Investments business is diversified across a wide range of
products. For example, we make markets in traditional investment grade debt
securities, structure complex derivatives and securitize mortgages and insurance
risk. A fundamental tenet of our approach is that we believe our willingness and
ability to take risk distinguishes us and substantially enhances our client
relationships. Our Trading and Principal Investments business includes the
following:
 
- - FIXED INCOME, CURRENCY AND COMMODITIES. Goldman Sachs makes markets in and
  trades fixed income products, currencies and commodities, structures and
  enters into a wide variety of derivative transactions and engages in
  proprietary trading and arbitrage activities;
 
- - EQUITIES.  Goldman Sachs makes markets in and trades equities and
  equity-related products, structures and enters into equity derivative
  transactions and engages in proprietary trading and equity arbitrage; and
 
- - PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS.  Principal investments primarily represents Goldman
  Sachs' net revenues from its investments in its merchant banking funds.
 
                                       75
<PAGE>   102
 
     The following table sets forth the net revenues of our Trading and
Principal Investments business:
 
                 TRADING AND PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS NET REVENUES
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          THREE
                                                                       MONTHS ENDED
                                         YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER             FEBRUARY
                                      --------------------------     ----------------
                                       1996      1997      1998       1998      1999
                                       ----      ----      ----       ----      ----
<S>                                   <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>
FICC................................  $1,749    $2,055    $1,438     $  741    $  876
Equities............................     730       573       795        365       455
Principal investments...............     214       298       146         76        26
                                      ------    ------    ------     ------    ------
Total Trading and Principal
  Investments.......................  $2,693    $2,926    $2,379     $1,182    $1,357
                                      ======    ======    ======     ======    ======
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
FIXED INCOME, CURRENCY AND COMMODITIES
 
     FICC is a large and diversified operation through which we engage in a
variety of customer-driven market-making and proprietary trading and arbitrage
activities. FICC's principal products are:
 
- - Bank loans
- - Commodities
- - Currencies
- - Derivatives
- - Emerging market debt
- - Global government securities
- - High-yield securities
- - Investment grade corporate securities
- - Money market instruments
- - Mortgage securities and loans
- - Municipal securities
 
     We generate trading net revenues from our customer-driven business in three
ways. First, in large, highly liquid markets we undertake a high volume of
transactions for modest spreads. Second, by capitalizing on our strong market
relationships and capital position, we also undertake transactions in less
liquid markets where spreads are generally larger. Finally, we generate net
revenues from structuring and executing transactions that address complex client
needs.
 
     In our proprietary activities, we assume a variety of risks and devote
substantial resources to identify, analyze and benefit from these exposures. We
leverage our strong research capabilities and capitalize on our proprietary
analytical models to analyze information and make informed trading judgments. We
seek to benefit from perceived disparities in the value of assets in the trading
markets and from macroeconomic and company-specific trends.
 
     FICC has established itself as a leading market participant by using a
three-part approach to deliver high quality service to its clients. First, we
offer broad market-making, research and market knowledge to our clients on a
global basis. Second, we create innovative solutions to complex client problems
by drawing upon our structuring and trading expertise. Third, we use our
expertise to take positions in markets when we believe the return is at least
commensurate with the risk.
 
     A core activity in FICC is market-making in a broad array of securities and
products. For example, we are a primary dealer in many of the largest government
bond markets around the world, including the United States, Japan, the United
Kingdom and Canada; we are a member of the major futures exchanges; and we have
interbank dealer status in the currency markets in New York, London, Tokyo and
Hong Kong. Our willingness to make markets in a broad range of fixed income,
currency and commodity products and their derivatives is crucial both to our
client relationships and to support our underwriting business by providing
secondary market liquidity. Our clients value counterparties that are active in
the marketplace and are willing to provide liquidity and research-based points
of view. In addition, we believe that our significant investment in research
capabilities
 
                                       76
<PAGE>   103
 
and proprietary analytical models are critical to our ability to provide advice
to our clients. Our research capabilities include quantitative and qualitative
analyses of global economic, currency and financial market trends, as well as
credit analyses of corporate and sovereign fixed income securities.
 
     Our clients often confront complex problems that require creative
approaches. We assist our clients who seek to hedge or reallocate their risks
and profit from expected price movements. To do this we bring to bear the
ability of our experienced professionals to understand the needs of our clients
and our ability to manage the risks associated with complex solutions to
problems. In recognition of our ability to meet these client needs, we were
ranked by Institutional Investor in February 1999 as the number two derivatives
dealer for the second straight year. In addition, we were named by Euroweek in
January 1999 as the "Best provider of swaps and other derivatives".
 
EQUITIES
 
     Goldman Sachs engages in a variety of market-making, proprietary trading
and arbitrage activities in equity securities and equity-related products (such
as convertible securities and equity derivative instruments) on a global basis.
Goldman Sachs makes markets and positions blocks of stock to facilitate
customers' transactions and to provide liquidity in the marketplace. Goldman
Sachs is a member of most of the major stock exchanges, including New York,
London, Frankfurt, Tokyo and Hong Kong.
 
     As agent, we execute brokerage transactions in equity securities for
institutional and individual customers that generate commission revenues.
Commissions earned on agency transactions are recorded in Asset Management and
Securities Services.
 
     In equity trading, as in FICC, we generate net revenues from our
customer-driven business in three ways. First, in large, highly liquid principal
markets, such as the over-the-counter market for equity securities, we undertake
a high volume of transactions for modest spreads. In the Nasdaq National Market,
we were the second largest market maker by aggregate volume, among the top 100
most actively traded stocks in calendar 1998. Second, by capitalizing on our
strong market relationships and capital position, we also undertake large
transactions, such as block trades and positions in securities, in which we
benefit from spreads that are generally larger. Finally, we also benefit from
structuring complex transactions.
 
     Goldman Sachs was a pioneer and is a leader in the execution of large block
trades (trades of 50,000 or more shares) in the United States and abroad. In
calendar 1998, we executed over 50 block trades of at least $100 million each.
We have been able to capitalize on our expertise in block trading, our global
distribution network and our willingness to commit capital to effect
increasingly large and complex customer transactions. We expect corporate
consolidation and restructuring and increased demand for certainty and speed of
execution by sellers and issuers of securities to increase both the frequency
and size of sales of large blocks of equity securities. We believe that we are
well positioned to benefit from this trend. Block transactions, however, expose
us to increased risks, including those arising from holding large and
concentrated positions and decreasing spreads. See "Risk Factors -- Market
Fluctuations Could Harm Our Businesses in Many Ways and, Consequently, Could
Lower the Value of an Investment in the Notes -- Holding Large and Concentrated
Positions May Expose Us to Large Losses" for a discussion of the risks
associated with holding a large position in a single issuer and "Risk
Factors -- The Financial Services Industry Is Intensely Competitive and Rapidly
Consolidating" for a discussion of the competitive risks that we face.
 
     We are active in the listed options and futures markets. And we structure,
distribute and execute over-the-counter derivatives on market indices, industry
groups and individual company stocks to facilitate customer transactions and our
proprietary activities. We develop quantitative strategies and render advice
with respect to portfolio hedging and restructuring and asset allocation
transactions. We also create specially tailored instruments to enable
sophisticated investors to
                                       77
<PAGE>   104
 
undertake hedging strategies and establish or liquidate investment positions. We
are one of the leading participants in the trading and development of equity
derivative instruments. We are an active participant in the trading of futures
and options on most of the major exchanges in the United States, Europe and
Asia.
 
     Equity arbitrage has long been an important part of our equity franchise.
Our strategy is based on making investments on a global basis through a
diversified portfolio across different markets and event categories. This
business focuses on event-oriented special situations where we are not acting as
an advisor and on relative value trades. These special situations include
mergers and acquisitions, corporate restructurings, recapitalizations and legal
and regulatory events. Equity arbitrage leverages our global infrastructure and
network of research analysts to analyze carefully a broad range of trading and
investment strategies across a wide variety of markets. Investment decisions are
the product of rigorous fundamental, situational and, frequently, regulatory and
legal analysis. Although market conditions led us to decrease the number and
size of positions maintained by our equity arbitrage business during 1998, we
believe that over time, as opportunities present themselves, our equity
arbitrage business will likely increase its activity.
 
TRADING RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     We believe that our trading and market-making capabilities are key
ingredients to our success. While these businesses have generally earned
attractive returns, we have in the past incurred significant trading losses in
periods of market turbulence, such as in 1994 and 1998. Our trading risk
management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from trading positions
with our exposure to potential losses. Risk management includes input from all
levels of Goldman Sachs, from the trading desks to the Firmwide Risk Committee.
See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Risk Management" for a further discussion of our risk management
policies and procedures.
 
     1998 EXPERIENCE.  From mid-August to mid-October 1998, the Russian economic
crisis, the turmoil in Asian and Latin American emerging markets and the
resulting move to higher quality fixed income securities by many investors led
to substantial declines in global financial markets. Investors broadly sold
credit-sensitive products, such as corporate and high-yield debt, and bought
higher-rated instruments, such as U.S. Treasury securities, which caused credit
spreads to widen dramatically. This market turmoil also caused a widespread
decline in global equity markets.
 
     As a major dealer in fixed income securities, we maintain substantial
inventories of corporate and high-yield debt. We regularly seek to hedge the
interest rate risk on these positions through, among other strategies, short
positions in U.S. Treasury securities. In the second half of 1998, we suffered
losses from both the decline in the prices of corporate and high-yield debt
instruments that we owned and the increase in the prices of the U.S. Treasury
securities in which we had short positions.
 
     These market shocks also led to trading losses in our fixed income relative
value trading positions. Relative value trading positions are intended to profit
from a perceived temporary dislocation in the relationship between the values of
different financial instruments. From mid-August to mid-October 1998, the
components of these relative value positions moved in directions that we did not
anticipate and the volatilities of certain positions increased to three times
prior levels. When we and other market participants with similar positions
simultaneously sought to reduce positions and exposures, this caused a
substantial reduction in market liquidity and a continuing decline in prices.
 
     In the second half of 1998, we also experienced losses in equity arbitrage
and in the value of a number of merchant banking investments.
 
     RISK REDUCTION.  Over the course of this period, we actively reduced our
positions and exposure to severe market disruptions of the type described above.
Our current scenario models estimate our exposure to a substantial widening in
credit spreads and adverse
 
                                       78
<PAGE>   105
 
movements in relative value trades of the type experienced in mid-August to
mid-October 1998. These models indicate that, as of November 1998, our exposure
to a potential reduction in net trading revenues as a result of these events was
over 40% lower than in August 1998. In addition, the daily VaR of substantially
all of our trading positions declined from $47 million as of May 29, 1998 to $43
million as of November 1998. The November 1998 daily VaR reflects the reduction
in positions discussed above, offset by the higher market volatility, changes in
correlation and other market conditions experienced in the second half of 1998.
If the daily VaR as of November 1998 had been determined using the volatility
and correlation data as of May 29, 1998, the daily VaR would have been $31
million. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations -- Risk Management" for a discussion of VaR and its
limitations.
 
     As part of the continuous effort to refine our risk management policies and
procedures, we have recently made a number of adjustments to the way that we
evaluate risk and set risk limits. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Risk Management -- Market Risk"
for a further discussion of our policies and procedures for evaluating market
risk and setting related limits.
 
     Notwithstanding these actions, we continue to hold trading positions that
are substantial in both number and size, and are subject to significant market
risk. In addition, management may choose to increase our risk levels in the
future. See "Risk Factors -- Market Fluctuations Could Harm Our Businesses in
Many Ways and, Consequently, Could Lower the Value of an Investment in the
Notes" and "-- Our Risk Management Policies and Procedures May Leave Us Exposed
to Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk" for a discussion of the risks associated
with our trading positions.
 
PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS
 
     In connection with our merchant banking activities, we invest with our
clients by making principal investments in funds that we raise and manage. As of
November 1998, we had committed $2.8 billion, of which $1.7 billion had been
funded, of the $15.5 billion total equity capital committed for our merchant
banking funds. The funds' investments generate capital appreciation or
depreciation and, upon disposition, realized gains or losses. See "-- Asset
Management and Securities Services -- Merchant Banking" for a discussion of our
merchant banking funds. As of November 1998, our aggregate carrying value of
principal investments held directly or through our merchant banking funds was
approximately $1.4 billion, which was comprised of corporate principal
investments with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $609 million and
real estate investments with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $753
million.
 
                    ASSET MANAGEMENT AND SECURITIES SERVICES
 
     Asset Management and Securities Services is comprised of the following:
 
- - ASSET MANAGEMENT.  Asset management generates management fees by providing
  investment advisory services to a diverse and rapidly growing client base of
  institutions and individuals;
 
- - SECURITIES SERVICES.  Securities services includes prime brokerage, financing
  services and securities lending and our matched book businesses, all of which
  generate revenue primarily in the form of fees or interest rate spreads; and
 
- - COMMISSIONS.  Commission-based businesses include agency transactions for
  clients on major stock and futures exchanges. Revenues from the increased
  share of income and gains derived from our merchant banking funds are also
  included in commissions.
 
                                       79
<PAGE>   106
 
     The following table sets forth the net revenues of our Asset Management and
Securities Services business:
 
             ASSET MANAGEMENT AND SECURITIES SERVICES NET REVENUES
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        THREE MONTHS
                                                                           ENDED
                                             YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER          FEBRUARY
                                          --------------------------    ------------
                                           1996      1997      1998     1998    1999
                                           ----      ----      ----     ----    ----
<S>                                       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>     <C>
Asset management........................  $  242    $  458    $  675    $139    $202
Securities services.....................     354       487       730     170     207
Commissions.............................     727       989     1,368     348     327
                                          ------    ------    ------    ----    ----
Total Asset Management and Securities
  Services..............................  $1,323    $1,934    $2,773    $657    $736
                                          ======    ======    ======    ====    ====
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
ASSET MANAGEMENT
 
     Goldman Sachs is seeking to build a premier global asset management
business. We offer a broad array of investment strategies and advice across all
major asset classes: global equity; fixed income, including money markets;
currency; and alternative investment products (i.e., investment vehicles with
non-traditional investment objectives and/or strategies). Assets under
supervision are comprised of assets under management and other client assets.
Assets under management typically generate fees based on a percentage of their
value and include our mutual funds, separate accounts managed for institutional
and individual investors, our merchant banking funds and other alternative
investment funds. Other client assets are comprised of assets in brokerage
accounts of primarily high net worth individuals, on which we earn commissions.
 
     Over the last five years, we have rapidly grown our assets under
supervision, as set forth in the graph below:
 
                            ASSETS UNDER SUPERVISION
                                 (in billions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      ASSETS UNDER
                                                       MANAGEMENT              OTHER CLIENT ASSETS               TOTALS
                                                      ------------             -------------------               ------
<S>                                             <C>                         <C>                         <C>
'1994'                                                      44                          49                          93
'1995'                                                      52                          58                         110
'1996'                                                      94                          77                         171
'1997'                                                     136                         102                         238
'1998'                                                     195                         142                         337
'February 1999'                                            207                         163                         370
</TABLE>
 
                                       80
<PAGE>   107
 
     As of February 1999, equities and alternative investments represented 51%
of our total assets under management. Since 1996, these two asset classes have
been the primary drivers of our growth in assets under management.
 
     The following table sets forth the amount of assets under management by
asset class:
 
                     ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT BY ASSET CLASS
                                 (in billions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                AS OF
                                                  AS OF NOVEMBER               FEBRUARY
                                       ------------------------------------    --------
                                       1994    1995    1996    1997    1998      1999
                                       ----    ----    ----    ----    ----      ----
<S>                                    <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>
ASSET CLASS
Equity...............................  $ 6     $ 9     $34     $ 52    $ 69      $ 73
Fixed income and currency............   17      19      26       36      50        53
Money markets........................   18      20      27       31      46        48
Alternative investment(1)............    3       4       8       17      30        32
                                       ---     ---     ---     ----    ----      ----
Total................................  $44     $52     $95     $136    $195      $206
                                       ===     ===     ===     ====    ====      ====
</TABLE>
 
- -----------------------
(1) Includes private equity, real estate, quantitative asset allocation
    and other funds that we manage.
 
                            ------------------------
 
     Since the beginning of 1996, we have increased the resources devoted to our
asset management business, including adding over 850 employees. In addition,
over the past three years, Goldman Sachs has made three asset management
acquisitions in order to expand its geographic reach and broaden its global
equity and alternative investment portfolio management capabilities.
 
     Our global reach has been important in growing assets under management.
From November 1996 to February 1999, our assets under management, excluding our
merchant banking funds, sourced from outside the United States grew by over $35
billion. As of February 1999, we managed approximately $46 billion sourced from
Europe.
 
     In Japan, deregulation, high individual savings rates and low local rates
of return have been important drivers of growth for our asset management
business during the 1990s. Over the last three years, we have built a
significant asset management business in Japan, and, as of February 1999, we
managed $23 billion of assets sourced from Japan. In Japan, as of the end of
February 1999, we were the largest non-Japanese investment trust manager,
according to The Investment Trusts Association, and we managed four of the top
15 open-ended mutual funds ranked by mutual fund assets, according to IFIS Inc.
We believe that substantial opportunities exist to grow our asset management
business in Japan, by increasing our institutional client base and expanding the
third-party distribution network through which we offer our mutual funds.
 
     CLIENTS.  Our primary clients are institutions, high net worth individuals
and retail investors. We access clients through both direct and third-party
channels.
 
                                       81
<PAGE>   108
 
     The table below sets forth the amount of assets under supervision by
distribution channel and client category as of November 1998:
 
                ASSETS UNDER SUPERVISION BY DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL
                                 (in billions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            ASSETS UNDER
                                           SUPERVISION(1)      PRIMARY INVESTMENT VEHICLES
                                           --------------      ---------------------------
<S>                                        <C>                <C>
- - Directly distributed
  -- Institutional.......................      $  121         Separate managed accounts
                                                              Commingled vehicles
 
  -- High net worth individuals..........         156         Brokerage accounts
                                                              Limited partnerships
                                                              Separate managed accounts
- - Third-party distributed
  -- Institutional and retail............          48         Mutual funds
                                               ------
Total....................................      $  325
                                               ======
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Excludes $12 billion in our merchant banking funds.
                            ------------------------
 
     Our institutional clients include corporations, insurance companies,
pension funds, foundations and endowments. We managed assets for three of the
five largest pension pools in the United States as ranked as of September 30,
1998 by Pensions & Investments, and we have 18 clients for whom we manage at
least $1 billion each.
 
     In the individual high net worth area, we have established approximately
10,000 high net worth accounts worldwide, including accounts with 41% of the
1998 "Forbes 400 List of the Richest Americans". We believe this is a high
growth opportunity because this market (defined as the market for individual
investors with a net worth in excess of $5 million) is highly fragmented and
growing rapidly and accounts for approximately $10 trillion of investable assets
according to a study by McKinsey & Co. At the center of our effort is a team of
over 420 relationship managers, located in 12 U.S. and six international
offices. These professionals have an average of over seven years of experience
at Goldman Sachs and have exhibited low turnover and superior productivity
relative to the industry average.
 
     In the third-party distribution channel, we distribute our mutual funds on
a worldwide basis through banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies and other
financial intermediaries. As of December 31, 1998, we were the third largest
manager in the U.S. institutional money market sector according to information
compiled by Strategic Insight. In Japan, we also utilize a third-party
distribution network consisting principally of the largest Japanese brokerage
firms.
 
MERCHANT BANKING
 
     Goldman Sachs has an established successful record in the corporate and
real estate merchant banking business, having raised $15.5 billion of committed
capital for 15 private investment funds, as of November 1998, of which $9.0
billion had been funded. We have committed $2.8 billion and funded $1.7 billion
of these amounts; our clients, including pension plans, endowments, charitable
institutions and high net worth individuals, have provided the remainder. Some
of these investment funds pursue, on a global basis, long-term investments in
equity and debt securities in privately negotiated transactions, leveraged
buyouts and acquisitions. As of
 
                                       82
<PAGE>   109
 
November 1998, these funds had total committed capital of $7.7 billion, which
includes two funds with $1.0 billion of committed capital that are in the
process of being wound down. Other funds, with total committed capital of $7.8
billion as of November 1998, invest in real estate operating companies and debt
and equity interests in real estate assets.
 
     Our strategy with respect to each merchant banking fund is to invest
opportunistically to build a portfolio of investments that is diversified by
industry, product type, geographic region and transaction structure and type.
Our merchant banking funds leverage our long-standing relationships with
companies, investors, entrepreneurs and financial intermediaries around the
world to source potential investment opportunities. In addition, our merchant
banking funds and their portfolio companies have generated business for other
areas of Goldman Sachs, including equity underwriting, leveraged and other
financing fees and merger advisory fees.
 
     Located in eight offices around the world, our investment professionals
identify, manage and sell investments on behalf of our merchant banking funds.
Goldman Sachs has two subsidiaries that manage real estate assets, The Archon
Group, L.P. and Archon Group (France) S.C.A. In addition, our merchant banking
professionals work closely with other departments and benefit from the expertise
of specialists in debt and equity research, investment banking, leveraged and
mortgage finance and equity capital markets.
 
     Merchant banking activities generate three revenue streams. First, we
receive a management fee that is generally a percentage of a fund's committed
capital, invested capital, total gross acquisition cost or asset value. These
annual management fees, which are included in our asset management revenues,
have historically been a recurring source of revenue. Second, we receive from
each fund, after that fund has achieved a minimum return for fund investors, an
increased share of the fund's income and gains that is a percentage, typically
20%, of the capital appreciation and gains from the fund's investments. Revenues
from the increased share of the funds' income and gains are included in
commissions. Third, Goldman Sachs, as a substantial investor in these funds, is
allocated its proportionate share of the funds' unrealized appreciation or
depreciation arising from changes in fair value as well as gains and losses upon
realization. These items are included in Trading and Principal Investments.
 
SECURITIES SERVICES
 
     Securities services consists predominantly of Global Securities Services,
which provides prime brokerage, financing services and securities lending to a
diversified U.S. and international customer base, including hedge funds, pension
funds and high net worth individuals. Securities services also includes our
matched book businesses.
 
     We offer prime brokerage services to our clients, allowing them the
flexibility to trade with most brokers while maintaining a single source for
financing and portfolio reports. Our prime brokerage activities provide
multi-product clearing and custody in 50 markets, consolidated multi-currency
accounting and reporting and offshore fund administration and servicing for our
most active clients. Additionally, we provide financing to our clients through
margin loans collateralized by securities held in the client's account. In
recent years, we have significantly increased our prime brokerage client base.
 
     Securities lending activities principally involve the borrowing and lending
of equity securities to cover customer and Goldman Sachs' short sales and to
finance Goldman Sachs' long positions. In addition, we are an active participant
in the securities lending broker-to-broker business and the third-party agency
lending business. Trading desks in New York, Boston, London, Tokyo and Hong Kong
provide 24-hour coverage in equity markets worldwide. We believe the rapidly
developing international stock lending market presents a significant growth
opportunity for us.
 
     Lenders of securities include pension plan sponsors, mutual funds,
insurance companies, investment advisors, endowments, bank trust departments and
individuals. We have entered into exclusive relationships with
 
                                       83
<PAGE>   110
 
certain lenders that have given us access to large pools of securities, some of
which are often hard to locate in the general lender market, providing us with a
competitive advantage. We believe that a significant cause of the growth in
short sales, which require the borrowing of securities, has been the rapid
increase in complex trading strategies, such as index arbitrage, convertible
bond and warrant arbitrage, option strategies, and sector and market neutral
strategies where shares are sold short to hedge exposure from derivative
instruments.
 
COMMISSIONS
 
     Goldman Sachs generates commissions by executing agency transactions on
major stock and futures exchanges worldwide. We effect agency transactions for
clients located throughout the world. In recent years, aggregate commissions
have increased as a result of growth in transaction volume on the major
exchanges. As discussed above, commissions also include the increased share of
income and gains from merchant banking funds as well as commissions earned from
brokerage transactions for high net worth individuals. For a discussion
regarding our increased share of the income and gains from our merchant banking
funds, see "-- Merchant Banking" above, and for a discussion regarding high net
worth individuals, see "-- Asset Management -- Clients" above.
 
     In anticipation of continued growth in electronic connectivity and online
trading, Goldman Sachs has made strategic investments in alternative trading
systems to gain experience and participate in the development of this market.
See "Risk Factors -- The Financial Services Industry Is Intensely Competitive
and Rapidly Consolidating -- Our Revenues May Decline Due to Competition from
Alternative Trading Systems" for a discussion of the competitive risks posed by
alternative trading systems generally.
 
                           GLOBAL INVESTMENT RESEARCH
 
     Our Global Investment Research Department provides fundamental research on
economies, debt and equity markets, commodities markets, industries and
companies on a worldwide basis. For over two decades, we have committed the
resources on a global scale to develop an industry-leading position for our
investment research products. We believe that investment research is a
significant factor in our strong competitive position in debt and equity
underwritings and in our generation of commission revenues.
 
     Major investors worldwide recognize Goldman Sachs for its value-added
research products, which are highly rated in client polls across the Americas,
Europe and Asia. Our Research Department is the only one to rank in the top
three in each of the last 15 calendar years in Institutional Investor's "All-
America Research Team" survey. In December 1998, the Research Department also
achieved top honors for global investment research from Institutional Investor.
In Europe, based on the Institutional Investor "1999 All-Europe Research Team"
survey, the Research Department ranked number one for coverage of pan-European
sectors and number three in European Strategy and Economics.
 
     Global Investment Research employs a team approach that provides equity
research coverage of approximately 2,300 companies worldwide, 53 economies and
26 stock markets. This is accomplished through four groups:
 
- - the Economic Research group, which formulates macroeconomic forecasts for
  economic activity, foreign exchange, and interest rates based on the globally
  coordinated views of its regional economists;
 
- - the Portfolio Strategy group, which forecasts equity market returns and
  provides recommendations on both asset allocation and industry representation;
 
- - the Company/Industry group, which provides fundamental analysis, forecasts and
  investment recommendations for companies and industries worldwide. Equity
  research analysts are organized regionally by sector and globally into more
  than 20 industry teams, which allows for extensive collaboration and knowledge
  sharing on important investment themes; and
 
                                       84
<PAGE>   111
 
- - the Commodities Research group, which provides research on the global
  commodity markets.
 
                               INTERNET STRATEGY
 
     We believe that Internet technology and electronic commerce will, over
time, change the ways that securities are traded and distributed, creating both
opportunities and challenges for our businesses. In response, we have a program
of internal development and external investment.
 
     Internally, we are extending our global electronic trading and information
distribution capabilities to our clients via the Internet. These capabilities
cover many of our fixed income, equities and mutual fund products in markets
around the world. We are also using the Internet to improve the ease and quality
of communication with our institutional and high net worth clients. For example,
investors have on-line access to our investment research, mutual fund data and
valuation models and our high net worth clients are increasingly accessing their
portfolio information over the Internet. We have also recently established
GS-Online.(SM), which, in conjunction with Goldman, Sachs & Co., acts as an
underwriter of securities offerings via the Internet and other electronic means.
GS-Online.(SM) will deal initially only with other underwriters and syndicate
members and not with members of the public.
 
     Externally, we have invested in electronic commerce concerns such as Bridge
Information Systems, Inc., TradeWeb LLC, Archipelago L.L.C., The BRASS Utility
L.L.C., OptiMark Technologies, Inc. and, most recently, Wit Capital Group, Inc.
Through these investments, we gain an increased understanding of business
developments and opportunities in this emerging sector. For a discussion of how
Goldman Sachs could be adversely affected by these developments, see "Risk
Factors -- The Financial Services Industry Is Intensely Competitive and Rapidly
Consolidating -- Our Revenues May Decline Due to Competition from Alternative
Trading Systems".
 
                             INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
 
     Technology is fundamental to our overall business strategy. Goldman Sachs
is committed to the ongoing development, maintenance and use of technology
throughout the organization, with expenditures, including employee costs, of
approximately $970 million in 1998 and a budget of $1.2 billion in 1999. We have
developed significant software and systems over the past several years. Our
technology initiatives can be broadly categorized into three efforts:
 
- - enhancing client service through increased connectivity and the provision of
  high value-added, tailored services;
 
- - risk management; and
 
- - overall efficiency and control.
 
     We have tailored our services to our clients by providing them with
electronic access to our products and services. For example, we developed the GS
Financial Workbench(SM), an Internet web site that clients and employees can use
to download research reports, access earnings and valuation models, submit
trades, monitor accounts, build and view presentations, calculate derivative
prices and view market data. First made available in early 1995, the GS
Financial Workbench(SM) represents a joint effort among all of our business
areas to create one comprehensive site for clients and employees to access our
products and services.
 
     We have also developed software that enables us to monitor and analyze our
market and credit risks. This risk management software not only analyzes market
risk on firmwide, divisional and trading desk levels, but also breaks down our
risk into its underlying exposures, permitting management to evaluate exposures
on the basis of specific interest rate, currency rate, equity price or commodity
price changes. To assist further in the management of our credit exposures, data
from many sources are aggregated daily into credit management systems that give
senior management and professionals in the Credit and Controllers Departments
the ability to receive timely information with respect to credit exposures
worldwide, including netting information, and the ability to analyze com-
 
                                       85
<PAGE>   112
 
plex risk situations effectively. Our software accesses these data, allows for
quick analysis at the level of individual trades and interacts with other
Goldman Sachs systems.
 
     Technology has been a significant factor in improving the overall
efficiency of many areas of Goldman Sachs. By automating many trading
procedures, we have substantially increased our efficiency and accuracy.
 
     We currently have projects under way to ensure that our technology is Year
2000 compliant. See "Risk Factors -- Our Computer Systems and Those of Third
Parties May Not Achieve Year 2000 Readiness -- Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure"
and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Risk Management -- Operational and Year 2000 Risks -- Year 2000
Readiness Disclosure" for a further discussion of the risks we face in achieving
Year 2000 readiness and our progress to date.
 
                                   EMPLOYEES
 
     Management believes that one of the strengths and principal reasons for the
success of Goldman Sachs is the quality and dedication of its people and the
shared sense of being part of a team. Goldman Sachs was ranked number seven in
Fortune magazine's "The 100 Best Companies to Work for in America" in January
1999 and was ranked number three in Fortune magazine's 1999 "The Top 50 MBA
Dream Companies", the highest ranking investment banking and securities firm in
each case. We strive to maintain a work environment that fosters
professionalism, excellence, diversity and cooperation among our employees
worldwide.
 
     Instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all employees is a continuous
process, of which training is an essential part. We recently opened a 34,000
square foot training center in New York City, near our world headquarters. All
employees are offered the opportunity to participate in education and periodic
seminars that we sponsor at various locations throughout the world. We also
sponsor off-site meetings for the various business units that are designed to
promote collaboration among co-workers.
 
     Another important part of instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all
employees is our employee review process. Employees are reviewed by supervisors,
co-workers and employees they supervise in a 360-degree review process that is
integral to our team approach. In 1998, over 140,000 reviews were completed,
evidencing the comprehensive nature of this process.
 
     We also believe that good citizenship is an important part of being a
member of the Goldman Sachs team. To that end, we established our Community
TeamWorks initiative in 1997. As part of Community TeamWorks, all employees are
offered the opportunity to spend a day working at a charitable organization of
their choice while continuing to receive their full salary for that day. In
1998, approximately two-thirds of our employees participated in Community
TeamWorks. The commitment of our partners to the community is also demonstrated
by their having given over $90 million in each of the last two years to
charities, including private foundations.
 
     As of February 1999, we had approximately 13,000 employees. In addition,
The Archon Group, L.P. and Archon Group (France) S.C.A., subsidiaries of Goldman
Sachs that provide real estate services for our real estate investment funds,
had a total of approximately 1,260 employees as of February 1999. Goldman Sachs
is reimbursed for substantially all of the costs of these employees by these
funds.
 
     See "Management -- The Employee Initial Public Offering Awards" for a
discussion of the steps taken by Goldman Sachs to encourage the continued
service of its employees after our common stock offering and see "Risk
Factors -- Our Conversion to Corporate Form May Adversely Affect Our Ability to
Recruit, Retain and Motivate Key Employees".
 
                                  COMPETITION
 
     The financial services industry -- and all of our businesses -- are
intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. Our competitors are
other brokers and dealers, investment banking firms, insurance companies,
investment advisors, mutual funds,
                                       86
<PAGE>   113
 
hedge funds, commercial banks and merchant banks. We compete with some of our
competitors globally and with some others on a regional, product or niche basis.
We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution,
our products and services, innovation, reputation and price.
 
     Competition is also intense for the attraction and retention of qualified
employees. Our ability to continue to compete effectively in our businesses will
depend upon our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our
existing employees. See "-- Employees" for a discussion of our efforts in this
regard.
 
     In recent years there has been substantial consolidation and convergence
among companies in the financial services industry. In particular, a number of
large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial
services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with
other financial institutions. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a
wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage,
asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their
competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking
and securities products with commercial banking, insurance and other financial
services revenues in an effort to gain market share, which could result in
pricing pressure in our businesses.
 
     This trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly increased
the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. This trend has also
hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services
markets. As a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international
operations and to execute large global transactions.
 
     We believe that some of our most significant challenges and opportunities
will arise outside the United States. See "Industry and Economic Outlook" for a
discussion of these challenges and opportunities. In order to take advantage of
these opportunities, we will have to compete successfully with financial
institutions based in important non-U.S. markets, particularly in Europe. Some
of these institutions are larger, better capitalized and have a stronger local
presence and a longer operating history in these markets.
 
     We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in
recent years. For example, equity and debt underwriting discounts have been
under pressure for a number of years and the ability to execute trades
electronically, through the Internet and other alternative trading systems may
increase the pressure on trading commissions. It appears that this trend toward
alternative trading systems will continue and perhaps accelerate. Similarly,
underwriting spreads in Latin American and other privatizations have been
subject to considerable pressure in the last year. We believe that we may
experience pricing pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of
our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.
 
     See "Risk Factors -- The Financial Services Industry Is Intensely
Competitive and Rapidly Consolidating" for a discussion of the competitive risks
we face in our businesses.
 
                                   REGULATION
 
     Goldman Sachs' business is, and the securities and commodity futures and
options industries generally are, subject to extensive regulation in the United
States and elsewhere. As a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the
United States and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the
integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the
interests of customers participating in those markets, not with protecting the
interests of Goldman Sachs' shareholders or creditors. In the United States, the
SEC is the federal agency responsible for the administration of the federal
securities laws. Goldman, Sachs & Co. is registered as a broker-dealer and as an
investment adviser with the SEC and as a broker-dealer in all 50 states and the
District of Columbia. Self-regulatory organizations, such as the NYSE, adopt
rules and examine broker-dealers, such as Goldman, Sachs & Co. In addition,
state securities and other regulators also have regulatory or oversight
                                       87
<PAGE>   114
 
authority over Goldman, Sachs & Co. Similarly, our businesses are also subject
to regulation by various non-U.S. governmental and regulatory bodies and
self-regulatory authorities in virtually all countries where we have offices.
 
     Broker-dealers are subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the
securities business, including sales methods, trade practices among
broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital
structure, record-keeping, the financing of customers' purchases and the conduct
of directors, officers and employees. Additional legislation, changes in rules
promulgated by self-regulatory organizations or changes in the interpretation or
enforcement of existing laws and rules, either in the United States or
elsewhere, may directly affect the mode of operation and profitability of
Goldman Sachs.
 
     The U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies and self-regulatory
organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the United States, are
empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure,
fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of
a broker-dealer or its directors, officers or employees. Occasionally, our
subsidiaries have been subject to investigations and proceedings, and sanctions
have been imposed for infractions of various regulations relating to our
activities, none of which has had a material adverse effect on us or our
businesses.
 
     The commodity futures and options industry in the United States is subject
to regulation under the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended. The Commodity
Futures Trading Commission is the federal agency charged with the administration
of the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations thereunder. Goldman, Sachs &
Co. is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a futures
commission merchant, commodity pool operator and commodity trading advisor.
 
     As a registered broker-dealer and member of various self-regulatory
organizations, Goldman, Sachs & Co. is subject to the SEC's uniform net capital
rule, Rule 15c3-1. This rule specifies the minimum level of net capital a
broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that at least a minimum part of
its assets be kept in relatively liquid form. Goldman, Sachs & Co. is also
subject to the net capital requirements of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and various securities and commodity exchanges. See Note 8 to the
audited consolidated financial statements and Note 5 to the unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our net capital.
 
     The SEC and various self-regulatory organizations impose rules that require
notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate
the ratio of subordinated debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition
of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its
business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the SEC's uniform net
capital rule imposes certain requirements that may have the effect of
prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and
requiring prior notice to the SEC for certain withdrawals of capital.
 
     In January 1999, the SEC adopted revisions to its uniform net capital rule
and related regulations that permit the registration of over-the-counter
derivatives dealers as broker-dealers. An over-the-counter derivatives dealer
can, upon adoption of a risk management framework in accordance with the new
rules, utilize a capital requirement based upon proprietary models for
estimating market risk exposures. We have established Goldman Sachs Financial
Markets, L.P. and are in the process of registering this company with the SEC as
an over-the-counter derivatives dealer to conduct in a more capital efficient
manner certain over-the-counter derivative businesses now conducted in other
affiliates.
 
     Goldman Sachs is an active participant in the international fixed income
and equity markets. Many of our affiliates that participate in those markets are
subject to comprehensive regulations that include some form of capital adequacy
rule and other customer protection rules. For example, Goldman Sachs provides
investment services in and from the United Kingdom under a regulatory
                                       88
<PAGE>   115
 
regime that is undergoing comprehensive restructuring aimed at implementing the
Financial Services Authority as the United Kingdom's unified regulator. The
relevant Goldman Sachs entities in London are at present regulated by the
Securities and Futures Authority Limited in respect of their investment banking,
individual asset management, brokerage and principal trading activities, and the
Investment Management Regulatory Organization in respect of their institutional
asset management and fund management activities. Some of these Goldman Sachs
entities are also regulated by the London Stock Exchange and other United
Kingdom securities and commodities exchanges of which they are members. It is
expected, however, that commencing in 2000 the responsibilities of the
Securities and Futures Authority Limited and Investment Management Regulatory
Organization will be taken over by the Financial Services Authority. The
investment services that are subject to oversight by United Kingdom regulators
are regulated in accordance with European Union directives requiring, among
other things, compliance with certain capital adequacy standards, customer
protection requirements and conduct of business rules. These standards,
requirements and rules are similarly implemented, under the same directives,
throughout the European Union and are broadly comparable in scope and purpose to
the regulatory capital and customer protection requirements imposed under the
SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission rules. European Union directives
also permit local regulation in each jurisdiction, including those in which we
operate, to be more restrictive than the requirements of such directives and
these local requirements can result in certain competitive disadvantages to
Goldman Sachs. In addition, the Japanese Ministry of Finance and the Financial
Supervisory Agency in Japan as well as German, French and Swiss banking
authorities, among others, regulate various of our subsidiaries and also have
capital standards and other requirements comparable to the rules of the SEC.
 
     Compliance with net capital requirements of these and other regulators
could limit those operations of our subsidiaries that require the intensive use
of capital, such as underwriting and trading activities and the financing of
customer account balances, and also could restrict our ability to withdraw
capital from our regulated subsidiaries, which in turn could limit our ability
to repay debt, including the notes. See "Risk Factors -- Legal and Regulatory
Risks Are Inherent and Substantial in Our Businesses and Could Lead to a
Reduction in Our Credit Ratings or in Our Ability to Repay the Notes",
"-- Investors in the Notes Face Additional Risk Because The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. Is a Holding Company" and "-- The Value of the Notes May Be Impaired
Because We Depend on Funds from Our Regulated Subsidiaries" for a discussion of
limitations on our ability to receive funds from regulated subsidiaries.
 
                                 LEGAL MATTERS
 
     We are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and arbitration
proceedings (including those described below) concerning matters arising in
connection with the conduct of our businesses. We believe, based on currently
available information, that the results of such proceedings, in the aggregate,
will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, but might be
material to our operating results for any particular period, depending, in part,
upon the operating results for such period.
 
MOBILEMEDIA SECURITIES LITIGATION
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. has been named as a defendant in a purported class
action lawsuit commenced on December 6, 1996 and pending in the U.S. District
Court for the District of New Jersey. This lawsuit was brought on behalf of
purchasers of common stock of MobileMedia Corporation in an underwritten
offering in 1995 and purchasers of senior subordinated notes of MobileMedia
Communications Inc. in a concurrent underwritten offering. Defendants are
MobileMedia Corporation, certain of its officers and directors, and the lead
underwriters, including Goldman, Sachs & Co. MobileMedia Corporation is
currently reorganizing in bankruptcy.
 
                                       89
<PAGE>   116
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. underwrote 2,242,500 shares of common stock, for a
total price of approximately $53 million, and Goldman Sachs International
underwrote 718,750 shares, for a total price of approximately $17 million.
Goldman, Sachs & Co. underwrote approximately $38 million in principal amount of
the senior subordinated notes.
 
     The consolidated class action complaint alleges violations of the
disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws and seeks compensatory
and/or rescissory damages. In light of MobileMedia Corporation's bankruptcy, the
action against it has been stayed. Defendants' motion to dismiss was denied in
October 1998.
 
ANTITRUST MATTERS RELATING TO UNDERWRITINGS
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. is one of numerous financial services companies that
have been named as defendants in certain purported class actions brought in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York by purchasers of
securities in public offerings, who claim that the defendants engaged in
conspiracies in violation of federal antitrust laws in connection with these
offerings. The plaintiffs in each instance seek treble damages as well as
injunctive relief. One of the actions, which was commenced on August 21, 1998,
alleges that the defendants have conspired to discourage or restrict the resale
of securities for a period after the offerings, including by imposing "penalty
bids". Defendants moved to dismiss the complaint in November 1998. The
plaintiffs amended their complaint in February 1999, modifying their claims in
various ways, including limiting the proposed class to retail purchasers of
public offerings. Several other actions were commenced, beginning on November 3,
1998, that allege that the defendants, many of whom are also named in the other
action discussed above, have conspired to fix at 7% the discount that
underwriting syndicates receive from issuers of shares in certain offerings.
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. received a Civil Investigative Demand on April 29,
1999 from the U.S. Department of Justice requesting information with respect to
its investigation of an alleged conspiracy among securities underwriters to fix
underwriting fees.
 
ROCKEFELLER CENTER PROPERTIES, INC. LITIGATION
 
     Several former shareholders of Rockefeller Center Properties, Inc. brought
purported class actions in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware
and the Delaware Chancery Court arising from the acquisition of Rockefeller
Center Properties, Inc. by an investor group in July 1996. The defendants in the
actions include, among others, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Whitehall Real Estate
Partnership V, a fund advised by Goldman, Sachs & Co., a Goldman, Sachs & Co.
managing director and other members of the investor group. The federal court
actions, which have since been consolidated, were filed beginning on November
15, 1996, and the state court action was filed on May 29, 1998.
 
     The complaints generally allege that the proxy statement disseminated to
former Rockefeller Center Properties, Inc. stockholders in connection with the
transaction was deficient, in violation of the disclosure requirements of the
federal securities laws. The plaintiffs are seeking, among other things,
unspecified damages, rescission of the acquisition, and/or disgorgement.
 
     In a series of decisions, the federal court has granted summary judgment
dismissing all the claims in the federal action. The plaintiffs have appealed
those rulings.
 
     The state action has been stayed pending disposition of the federal action.
 
REICHHOLD CHEMICALS LITIGATION
 
     Reichhold Chemicals, Inc. and Reichhold Norway ASA brought a claim on March
30, 1998 in the Commercial Court in London against Goldman Sachs International
in relation to the plaintiffs' 1997 purchase of the polymer division of one of
Goldman Sachs International's Norwegian clients, Jotun A/S. The plaintiffs claim
that they overpaid by $40 million based upon misrepresentations concerning the
financial performance of the polymer division.
 
                                       90
<PAGE>   117
 
     In November 1998, the Commercial Court granted Goldman Sachs
International's application for a stay of the action pending the outcome of
arbitration proceedings between Reichhold Chemicals, Inc. and Reichhold Norway
ASA, on the one hand, and Jotun A/S in Norway, on the other. The stay order is
currently being reviewed by an appellate court.
 
MATTERS RELATING TO MUNICIPAL SECURITIES
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co., together with a number of other firms active in the
municipal securities area, has received requests beginning in June 1995 for
information from the SEC and certain other federal and state agencies and
authorities with respect to the pricing of escrow securities sold by Goldman,
Sachs & Co. to certain municipal bond issuers in connection with the advanced
refunding of municipal securities. Goldman, Sachs & Co. understands that certain
municipal bond issuers to which Goldman, Sachs & Co. sold escrow securities have
also received such inquiries.
 
     There have been published reports that an action under the Federal False
Claims Act was filed in February 1995 alleging unlawful and undisclosed
overcharges in certain advance refunding transactions by a private plaintiff on
behalf of the United States and that Goldman, Sachs & Co., together with a
number of other firms, is a named defendant in that action. The complaint was
reportedly filed under seal while the government determines whether it will
pursue the claims directly.
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. is also one of many municipal underwriting firms that
have been named as defendants in a purported class action brought on November
24, 1998 in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida by the
Clerk of Collier County, Florida on behalf of municipal issuers which purchased
escrow securities since October 1986 in connection with advance refundings. The
amended complaint alleges that the securities were excessively "marked up" in
violation of the Investment Advisers Act and Florida law, and seeks to recover
the difference between the actual and alleged "fair" prices. The defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint on April 30, 1999.
 
AMF SECURITIES LITIGATION
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and a Goldman, Sachs &
Co. managing director have been named as defendants in a purported class action
lawsuit commenced on April 27, 1999 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York. This lawsuit was brought on behalf of purchasers of stock
of AMF Bowling, Inc. in an underwritten initial public offering of 15,525,000
shares of common stock in November 1997 at a price of $19.50 per share.
Defendants are AMF Bowling, Inc., certain officers and directors of AMF Bowling,
Inc. (including the Goldman, Sachs & Co. managing director), and the lead
underwriters of the offering (including Goldman, Sachs & Co.). The complaint
alleges violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws
and seeks compensatory damages and/or rescission. The complaint asserts that The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and the Goldman, Sachs & Co. managing director are
liable as controlling persons under the federal securities laws because certain
funds managed by Goldman Sachs owned a majority of the outstanding common stock
of AMF Bowling, Inc. and the managing director served as its chairman at the
time of the offering.
 
                                   PROPERTIES
 
     Our principal executive offices are located at 85 Broad Street, New York,
New York, and comprise approximately 969,000 square feet of leased space,
pursuant to a lease agreement expiring in June 2008 (with an option to renew for
up to 20 additional years). We also occupy over 500,000 square feet at each of 1
New York Plaza and 10 Hanover Square in New York, New York, pursuant to lease
agreements expiring in September 2004 (with an option to renew for ten years)
and June 2018, respectively. We also have a 15-year lease for approximately
590,000 square feet at 180 Maiden Lane in New York, New York, that expires in
March 2014. In total, we lease over 3.1 million square feet in the New York
area, having more than doubled our space since November 1996. We have addi-
 
                                       91
<PAGE>   118
 
tional offices in the United States and elsewhere in the Americas. Together,
these offices comprise approximately 650,000 square feet of leased space.
 
     Consistent with Goldman Sachs' global approach to its business, we also
have offices in Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia. In Europe, we have offices
that total approximately 790,000 square feet. Our largest presence in Europe is
in London, where we lease approximately 639,000 square feet through various
leases, with the principal one, for Peterborough Court, expiring in 2016. An
additional 396,000 square feet of leased space in London is expected to be
occupied during 2001.
 
     In Asia, we have offices that total approximately 360,000 square feet. Our
largest offices in these regions are in Tokyo and Hong Kong. In Tokyo, we
currently lease approximately 175,000 square feet under leases that expire
between November 1999 and June 2005. In Hong Kong, we currently lease
approximately 103,000 square feet under a lease that expires in May 2000. We
recently entered into a new 12-year lease in Hong Kong for approximately 190,000
square feet. There are also significant expansion efforts underway in Tokyo and
Singapore.
 
     Our space requirements have increased significantly over the last several
years. Currently, Goldman Sachs is at or near capacity at most of its locations.
As a result, we have been actively leasing additional space to support our
anticipated growth. Based on our progress to date, we believe that we will be
able to acquire additional space to meet our anticipated needs.
 
                                       92
<PAGE>   119
 
                                   MANAGEMENT
 
                        DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
 
     Set forth below is information concerning the directors and executive
officers of Goldman Sachs as of the date of this prospectus. We anticipate
appointing additional directors over time who are not employees of Goldman Sachs
or affiliated with management.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
            NAME                             AGE                              POSITION
            ----                             ---                              --------
            <S>                              <C>      <C>
            Henry M. Paulson, Jr.            53       Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
            Robert J. Hurst                  53       Director and Vice Chairman
            John A. Thain                    43       Director, President and Co-Chief Operating Officer
            John L. Thornton                 45       Director, President and Co-Chief Operating Officer
            Sir John Browne                  51       Director
            James A. Johnson                 55       Director
            John L. Weinberg                 74       Director
            Robert J. Katz                   51       General Counsel
            Gregory K. Palm                  50       General Counsel
            Robin Neustein                   45       Chief of Staff
            Leslie M. Tortora                42       Chief Information Officer
            David A. Viniar                  43       Chief Financial Officer
            Barry L. Zubrow                  46       Chief Administrative Officer
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
     Executive officers are appointed by and serve at the pleasure of our board
of directors. A brief biography of each director and executive officer follows.
 
     Mr. Paulson has been Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or Co-Chief
Executive Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. since June 1998 and served as
Chief Operating Officer from December 1994 to June 1998. From 1990 to November
1994, he was Co-Head of Investment Banking.
 
     Mr. Hurst has been Vice Chairman of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. since
February 1997 and has served as Head or Co-Head of Investment Banking since
1990. He is also a director of VF Corporation and IDB Holding Corporation Ltd.
 
     Mr. Thain has been President of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. since March
1999 and Co-Chief Operating Officer since January 1999. From December 1994 to
March 1999, he served as Chief Financial Officer and Head of Operations,
Technology and Finance. From July 1995 to September 1997, he was also Co-Chief
Executive Officer for European Operations. In 1990, Mr. Thain transferred from
FICC to Operations, Technology and Finance to assume responsibility for
Controllers and Treasury. From 1985 to 1990, Mr. Thain was in FICC where he
established and served as Co-Head of the Mortgage Securities Department. Mr.
Thain is a director of The Depository Trust Company.
 
     Mr. Thornton has been President of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. since
March 1999 and Co-Chief Operating Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. since
January 1999. From August 1998 until January 1999, he had oversight
responsibility for International Operations. From September 1996 until August
1998, he was Chairman, Goldman Sachs -- Asia, in addition to his senior
strategic responsibilities in Europe. From July 1995 to September 1997, he was
Co-Chief Executive Officer for European Operations. From 1994 to 1995, he was
Co-Head of Investment Banking in Europe and from 1992 to 1994 was Head of
European Investment Banking Services. Mr. Thornton is also a director of the
Ford Motor Company, BSkyB PLC, Laura Ashley PLC and the Pacific Century Group.
 
     Sir John Browne has been Group Chief Executive of BP Amoco p.l.c. since
January
 
                                       93
<PAGE>   120
 1999. He was Group Chief Executive of The British Petroleum Company from 1995
to 1999, having served as a Managing Director since 1991. Sir John is also a
director of SmithKline Beecham p.l.c. and the Intel Corporation, a member of the
supervisory board of DaimlerChrysler AG and a trustee of the British Museum.
 
     Mr. Johnson has been Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of
Directors of Fannie Mae since January 1999. He was Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of Fannie Mae from February 1991 through December 1998. Mr. Johnson is
also a director of the Cummins Engine Company, Dayton Hudson Corporation,
UnitedHealth Group and Kaufman and Broad Home Corporation, Chairman of the John
F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and Chairman of the Board of Trustees
of The Brookings Institution.
 
     Mr. Weinberg has been Senior Chairman of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.
since 1990. From 1984 to 1990, he was Senior Partner and Chairman and, from 1976
to 1984, he served both as Senior Partner and Co-Chairman. Mr. Weinberg is also
a director of Knight-Ridder, Inc., Providian Financial Corp. and Tricon Global
Restaurants, Inc.
 
     Mr. Katz has been General Counsel of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. or its
predecessor since 1988. From 1980 to 1988, Mr. Katz was a partner in Sullivan &
Cromwell.
 
     Mr. Palm has been General Counsel of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. since
1992. He also has senior oversight responsibility for Compliance and Management
Controls, and is Co-Chairman of the Global Compliance and Control Committee.
From 1982 to 1992, Mr. Palm was a partner in Sullivan & Cromwell.
 
     Ms. Neustein has been Chief of Staff to the senior partners of The Goldman
Sachs Group, L.P. since 1992. From 1991 to 1992, Ms. Neustein managed strategic
projects for the senior partners. Prior to then, she was in Investment Banking.
 
     Ms. Tortora has been Chief Information Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group,
L.P. and the Head of Information Technology since March 1999. She has headed
Goldman Sachs' global technology efforts since 1994.
 
     Mr. Viniar has been Chief Financial Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group,
L.P. and Co-Head of Operations, Finance and Resources since March 1999. From
July 1998 until then, he was Deputy Chief Financial Officer and from 1994 until
then, he was Head of Finance, with responsibility for Controllers and Treasury.
From 1992 to 1994, Mr. Viniar was Head of Treasury and immediately prior to then
was in the Structured Finance Department of Investment Banking.
 
     Mr. Zubrow has been Chief Administrative Officer of The Goldman Sachs
Group, L.P. and Co-Head of Operations, Finance and Resources since March 1999.
From 1994 until then he was chief credit officer and Head of the Credit
Department. From 1992 to 1994, Mr. Zubrow was Head of the Midwest Group in the
Corporate Finance Department of Investment Banking.
 
     In addition, Jon S. Corzine, 52, resigned his positions as a Director and
Co-Chairman of Goldman Sachs immediately prior to the date of our common stock
offering. After seeing through the completion of our common stock offering, a
project Mr. Corzine believes is of great importance to Goldman Sachs, he left
Goldman Sachs to pursue other interests. Mr. Corzine was Co-Chairman of The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. since June 1998 and served as Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. from December 1994 to June
1998 and Co-Chief Executive Officer from June 1998 to January 1999. Mr. Corzine
is a member of the NASD's Board of Governors.
 
     There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers or
directors of Goldman Sachs.
 
                         THE MANAGEMENT AND PARTNERSHIP
                                   COMMITTEES
 
     In January 1999, the Management and Partnership Committees were constituted
as part of Goldman Sachs' overall governance structure. The Management
Committee, which is chaired by Mr. Paulson, has responsibility for policy,
strategy and management of our
 
                                       94
<PAGE>   121
 
businesses. In addition to Messrs. Paulson, Thain, Thornton and Hurst, Ms.
Neustein and Ms. Tortora, the members of this committee and their principal
positions within Goldman Sachs are: Lloyd C. Blankfein (Co-Head, FICC), Richard
A. Friedman (Co-Head, Merchant Banking), Steven "Mac" M. Heller (Co-Chief
Operating Officer, Investment Banking), Robert S. Kaplan (Co-Chief Operating
Officer, Investment Banking), John P. McNulty (Co-Head, Asset Management),
Michael P. Mortara (Co-Head, FICC), Daniel M. Neidich (Co-Head, Merchant
Banking), Mark Schwartz (President, Goldman Sachs -- Japan), Robert K. Steel
(Co-Head, Equities) and Patrick J. Ward (Co-Head, Equities and Deputy
Chairman -- Europe). Mr. Katz is counsel to the Management Committee.
 
     The Partnership Committee, which is chaired by Messrs. Thain and Thornton,
oversees personnel development and career management issues. It focuses on such
matters as recruiting, training, performance evaluation, diversity, mobility and
succession planning and, together with the Management Committee, is expected to
become integral in the process of selecting and compensating managing directors.
In addition to Messrs. Thain and Thornton and Ms. Neustein, the members of this
committee and their principal positions within Goldman Sachs are: David W. Blood
(Head, Asset Management -- Europe), Gary D. Cohn (Head, FICC Commodities and
Emerging Markets), W. Mark Evans (Co-Head, Investment Research), Jacob D.
Goldfield (Head, FICC -- Europe), David B. Heller (Head, Equities Derivatives
Trading), Philip D. Murphy (President, Goldman Sachs -- Asia), Simon M.
Robertson (President, Goldman Sachs -- Europe), Esta E. Stecher (Head, Tax),
John S. Weinberg (Co-Head, Investment Banking Services), Peter A. Weinberg
(Co-Chief Operating Officer, Investment Banking and Deputy Chairman -- Europe)
and Jon Winkelried (Head, Leveraged Finance). Mr. Palm is counsel to the
Partnership Committee.
 
                  INFORMATION REGARDING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
     Our charter provides for a classified board of directors consisting of
three classes. The term of the initial Class I directors will terminate on the
date of the 2000 annual meeting of shareholders, the term of the initial Class
II directors will terminate on the date of the 2001 annual meeting of
shareholders and the term of the initial Class III directors will terminate on
the date of the 2002 annual meeting of shareholders. Messrs. Thain and Thornton
are members of Class I, Sir John Browne and Messrs. Johnson and Weinberg are
members of Class II and Messrs. Hurst and Paulson are members of Class III.
Beginning in 2000, at each annual meeting of shareholders, successors to the
class of directors whose term expires at that annual meeting will be elected for
a three-year term and until their respective successors have been elected and
qualified. A director may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of
the holders of not less than 80% of the outstanding shares of capital stock
entitled to vote in the election of directors.
 
     It is anticipated that our board of directors will meet at least quarterly.
Members of our board of directors who are employees of Goldman Sachs or any of
its subsidiaries will not be compensated for service on the board of directors
or any committee thereof.
 
     Since the completion of our common stock offering, Mr. Weinberg has
continued in his role as Senior Chairman under an agreement pursuant to which he
will provide senior advisory services to Goldman Sachs, receive annual
compensation of $2 million and participate in various employee benefit plans.
The agreement expires November 24, 2000, unless earlier terminated by either
party on 90 days' notice. Mr. Weinberg has had similar arrangements with Goldman
Sachs since 1990.
 
                      COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
     Our board of directors will have an Audit Committee, composed of directors
who are not employed by Goldman Sachs or affiliated with management. The Audit
Committee will review the results and scope of the audit and other services
provided by our independent auditors as well as review our accounting and
control procedures and policies.
 
     Our board of directors will also have a Compensation Committee. The
Compensation
 
                                       95
<PAGE>   122
 
Committee will oversee the compensation and benefits of the management and
employees of Goldman Sachs and will consist entirely of non-employee directors.
 
     Our board of directors may from time to time establish other committees to
facilitate the management of Goldman Sachs.
 
                             EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     Prior to our common stock offering, our business was carried on in
partnership form. As a result, meaningful individual compensation information
for directors and executive officers of Goldman Sachs based on operating in
corporate form is not available for periods prior to our common stock offering.
However, Goldman Sachs does not believe that the aggregate compensation that
will be paid in fiscal 1999 to the continuing named executive officers referred
to below will exceed levels that are customary for similarly situated executives
in the investment banking industry.
 
     The following table sets forth compensation information for our Chief
Executive Officer, three of our continuing executive officers named under
"-- Directors and Executive Officers" and two former executive officers of The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. (the "named executive officers").
 
                    FISCAL 1998 COMPENSATION INFORMATION(1)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
NAME AND PRINCIPAL POSITION
- ---------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>
Henry M. Paulson, Jr.,......................................  $12,700,000
  1998: Co-Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer
  (1999: Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer)
Robert J. Hurst,............................................   11,300,000
  1998: Vice Chairman
  (1999: Director and Vice Chairman)
John A. Thain,..............................................   11,200,000
  1998: Chief Financial Officer
  (1999: Director, President and Co-Chief Operating Officer)
John L. Thornton,...........................................    9,900,000
  1998: Chairman of International Operations
  (1999: Director, President and Co-Chief Operating Officer)
Jon S. Corzine(2),..........................................   12,800,000
  1998: Co-Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer
Roy J. Zuckerberg(3),.......................................   11,000,000
  1998: Vice Chairman
</TABLE>
 
     -------------------------
 
     (1) The amounts in the table represent compensation for fiscal 1998
         only and do not include that portion of each named executive
         officer's total partnership return from The Goldman Sachs Group,
         L.P. in 1998 attributable to a return on his invested capital or
         to his share of the income from investments made by Goldman Sachs
         in prior years that was allocated to the individuals who were
         partners in those years. The return on invested capital for each
         named executive officer was determined using a rate of 12%, the
         actual fixed rate of return that was paid in 1998 to our retired
         limited partners on their long-term capital.
     (2) Mr. Corzine resigned from Goldman Sachs prior to the consummation
         of our common stock offering.
     (3) Mr. Zuckerberg retired in November 1998.
 
                             ----------------------
 
     Aggregate compensation paid to key employees who are not named executive
officers may exceed that paid to the named executive officers. Each of Messrs.
Paulson, Hurst, Thain, Thornton, Corzine and Zuckerberg has accrued benefits
under the employees' pension plan entitling him to receive annual benefits upon
retirement at age 65 of $10,533, $10,533, $7,074, $11,801, $9,942 and $7,721,
respectively. These benefits had accrued prior to November 1992 and none of
these executive officers has earned additional benefits under the pension plan
since November 1992.
 
                                       96
<PAGE>   123
 
                         EMPLOYMENT, NONCOMPETITION AND
                               PLEDGE AGREEMENTS
 
     In connection with our common stock offering, Goldman Sachs entered into
employment agreements with each profit participating limited partner who
continued as a managing director and pledge agreements and agreements relating
to noncompetition and other covenants with all of the managing directors who
were profit participating limited partners, whether or not they retired,
including, in both cases, each managing director who is a member of our board of
directors or is an executive officer.
 
     The following are descriptions of the material terms of the employment,
noncompetition and pledge agreements with the managing directors who were profit
participating limited partners. You should, however, refer to the exhibits that
are a part of the registration statement for a copy of the form of each
agreement. See "Available Information".
 
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS
 
     Each employment agreement has an initial term extending through November
24, 2000 (thereafter no set term), requires each continuing managing director
who was a profit participating limited partner to devote his or her entire
working time to the business and affairs of Goldman Sachs and generally may be
terminated at any time by either that managing director or Goldman Sachs on 90
days' prior written notice.
 
     Goldman Sachs has entered into similar employment agreements with all other
managing directors, except that they have no set term.
 
NONCOMPETITION AGREEMENTS
 
     Each noncompetition agreement provides as follows:
 
     CONFIDENTIALITY.  Each managing director who was a profit participating
limited partner is required to protect and use "confidential information" in
accordance with the restrictions placed by Goldman Sachs on its use and
disclosure.
 
     NONCOMPETITION.  During the period ending 12 months after the date a
managing director who was a profit participating limited partner ceases to be
employed by Goldman Sachs, that managing director may not:
 
- - form, or acquire a 5% or greater ownership, voting or profit participation
  interest in, any competitive enterprise; or
 
- - associate with any competitive enterprise and in connection with such
  association engage in, or directly or indirectly manage or supervise personnel
  engaged in, any activity that had a relationship to that managing director's
  activities at Goldman Sachs.
 
When we refer to a "competitive enterprise", we are referring to any business
enterprise that engages in any activity, or owns a significant interest in any
entity that engages in any activity, that competes with any activity in which we
are engaged.
 
     NONSOLICITATION.  During the period ending 18 months after the date a
managing director who was a profit participating limited partner ceases to be
employed by Goldman Sachs, that managing director may not, directly or
indirectly, in any manner:
 
- - solicit any client with whom that managing director worked, or whose identity
  became known to him or her in connection with his or her employment with
  Goldman Sachs, to transact business with a competitive enterprise or reduce or
  refrain from doing any business with Goldman Sachs;
 
- - interfere with or damage any relationship between Goldman Sachs and any client
  or prospective client; or
 
- - solicit any employee of Goldman Sachs to apply for, or accept employment with,
  any competitive enterprise.
 
     TRANSFER OF CLIENT RELATIONSHIPS.  Each managing director who was a profit
participating limited partner is required, upon termination of his or her
employment, to take all actions and do all things reasonably requested by
Goldman Sachs during a 90-day cooperation period to maintain for Goldman Sachs
the business, goodwill and business relationships with Goldman Sachs' clients
with which he or she worked.
 
                                       97
<PAGE>   124
 
     LIQUIDATED DAMAGES.  In the case of any breach of the noncompetition or
nonsolicitation provisions prior to the fifth anniversary of the date of the
consummation of our common stock offering, the breaching managing director will
be liable for liquidated damages. The amount of liquidated damages for each
managing director who initially serves on the board of directors, the Management
Committee or the Partnership Committee of Goldman Sachs is $15 million, and the
amount of liquidated damages for each other managing director who was a profit
participating limited partner is $10 million. These liquidated damages are in
addition to the forfeiture of any future equity-based awards that may occur as a
result of the breach of any noncompetition or nonsolicitation provisions
contained in those awards.
 
PLEDGE AGREEMENT
 
     The liquidated damages provisions of each noncompetition agreement are
secured by a pledge of stock or other assets with an initial value equal to 100%
of the applicable liquidated damages amount.
 
     Each pledge agreement will terminate on the earliest to occur of:
 
- - the death of the relevant managing director;
 
- - the expiration of the 24-month period following the termination of the
  employment of the relevant managing director; or
 
- - the fifth anniversary of the date of the consummation of our common stock
  offering.
 
NONEXCLUSIVITY AND ARBITRATION
 
     The liquidated damages and pledge arrangements discussed above are not
exclusive of any injunctive relief that Goldman Sachs may be entitled to for a
breach of a noncompetition agreement and, after the termination of the pledge
agreement, Goldman Sachs will be entitled to all available remedies for a breach
of a noncompetition agreement.
 
     The employment, noncompetition and pledge agreements generally provide that
any disputes thereunder will be resolved by binding arbitration.
 
                  THE EMPLOYEE INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING AWARDS
 
     In connection with the consummation of our common stock offering, we
provided awards to our employees and a limited number of consultants and
advisors, other than managing directors who were profit participating limited
partners, in one or more of the following forms:
 
- - substantially all employees received a grant of restricted stock units awarded
  based on a formula, with respect to which up to an aggregate of 30,025,946
  shares of common stock will be deliverable;
 
- - certain senior employees, principally managing directors who were not profit
  participating limited partners, were selected to participate in the defined
  contribution plan described below, to which Goldman Sachs has made an initial
  irrevocable contribution of 12,555,866 shares of common stock;
 
- - certain employees received a grant of restricted stock units awarded on a
  discretionary basis, with respect to which up to an aggregate of 33,292,869
  shares of common stock will be deliverable; and
 
- - certain employees received a grant of options to purchase shares of common
  stock awarded on a discretionary basis, with respect to which up to an
  aggregate of 40,127,592 shares of common stock will be deliverable.
 
     The restricted stock units awarded to employees based on a formula, the
restricted stock units awarded to employees on a discretionary basis and the
options to purchase shares of common stock awarded to employees on a
discretionary basis were granted under the stock incentive plan described below.
The restricted stock units awarded to employees on a discretionary and a formula
basis described below confer only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of
Goldman Sachs and no rights as a shareholder of Goldman Sachs until the common
stock underlying such award is delivered. Any shares of common stock acquired by
a managing director pursuant to the awards will be subject to the shareholders'
agreement described in "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions -- 
Shareholders' Agreement".
 
                                       98
<PAGE>   125
 
FORMULA AWARDS
 
     The common stock underlying the restricted stock units awarded based on a
formula generally will be deliverable in equal installments on or about the
first, second and third anniversaries of the date of the consummation of our
common stock offering, although the common stock may be deliverable earlier in
the event of certain terminations of employment following a change in control.
While no additional service will be required to obtain delivery of the
underlying common stock (i.e., the award is "vested"), delivery of the common
stock will be conditioned on the grantee's satisfying certain requirements,
including not being terminated under the circumstances described in the award
agreement prior to delivery of the common stock and not violating any policy of
Goldman Sachs (including in respect of confidentiality and hedging) or otherwise
acting in a manner detrimental to Goldman Sachs (including violating
noncompetition or nonsolicitation provisions of the award). While these
restricted stock units are outstanding, amounts equal to regular cash dividends
that would have been paid on the common stock underlying these units if the
common stock had been actually issued will be paid in cash at about the same
time that the dividends are paid generally to the shareholders. These amounts
will be recorded as compensation expense since the underlying shares of common
stock will not have been issued.
 
     Pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, we recorded
non-cash compensation expense of $1,591 million related to the restricted stock
units awarded based on a formula on the date of grant, since future service is
not required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying shares of common
stock. For purposes of calculating both basic earnings per share (pursuant to
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128) and book value per share,
the shares of common stock underlying the restricted stock units awarded based
on a formula are included in common stock outstanding for the reason described
above.
 
DISCRETIONARY AWARDS
 
     RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARDED ON A DISCRETIONARY BASIS.  The restricted
stock units awarded on a discretionary basis will vest, and the underlying
common stock will be delivered, in equal installments on or about the third,
fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of consummation of our common stock
offering if the grantee has satisfied certain conditions and the grantee's
employment with Goldman Sachs has not been terminated, with certain exceptions
for terminations of employment due to death, retirement, extended absence or
following a change in control. While these restricted stock units are
outstanding, amounts equal to regular cash dividends that would have been paid
on the common stock underlying these units if the common stock had been actually
issued will be paid in cash at about the same time that the dividends are paid
generally to the shareholders. These amounts will be recorded as compensation
expense since the underlying shares of common stock will not have been issued.
 
     Pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, we will record
non-cash compensation expense of $1,765 million related to the restricted stock
units awarded on a discretionary basis over the related service period. For
purposes of calculating both basic earnings per share (pursuant to Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 128) and book value per share, the shares of
common stock underlying these restricted stock units are excluded from common
stock outstanding since future service is required as a condition to the
delivery of the underlying shares of common stock. The dilutive effect of these
restricted stock units is, however, included in diluted shares outstanding using
the treasury stock method.
 
     DISCRETIONARY OPTIONS.  The options to purchase shares of common stock
awarded on a discretionary basis have been granted with an exercise price
generally equal to the initial public offering price per share in our common
stock offering, although in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions certain employees may
have been granted discretionary options with a lower exercise price. These
discretionary options will generally be exercisable in equal
 
                                       99
<PAGE>   126
 
installments commencing on or about the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of
the date of the consummation of our common stock offering if the grantee has
satisfied certain conditions and the grantee's employment with Goldman Sachs has
not been terminated, with certain exceptions for terminations of employment due
to death, retirement, extended absence or following a change in control. These
discretionary options will thereafter generally remain exercisable, subject to
satisfaction of certain conditions, until the tenth anniversary of the date of
the consummation of our common stock offering or, if earlier, upon expiration of
a period, as specified in the award agreement, following termination of
employment.
 
     These discretionary options will be accounted for pursuant to Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, as permitted by paragraph 5 of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123. Since these options had no intrinsic
value on the date of grant, no compensation expense will be recognized.
 
     CONTRIBUTION TO THE DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN.  On the date of the
consummation of our common stock offering, Goldman Sachs made an initial
irrevocable contribution of 12,555,866 shares of common stock to the defined
contribution plan. Certain senior employees, principally managing directors who
were not profit participating limited partners, have been selected to
participate in the defined contribution plan. The right to receive shares will
vest, and the underlying common stock will be distributable to participants in
the defined contribution plan, in equal installments on or about the third,
fourth and fifth anniversaries of the initial contribution if the participant
has satisfied certain conditions and the participant's employment with Goldman
Sachs has not been terminated, with certain exceptions for terminations of
employment due to death or following a change in control. Dividends paid on
shares allocated to participants will be distributed currently.
 
     We recorded non-cash compensation expense of $666 million related to the
initial irrevocable contribution of shares of common stock to the defined
contribution plan. This non-cash expense has been recognized on the date it was
funded in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87.
 
CHANGE IN CONTROL
 
     The restricted stock units awarded based on a formula, the restricted stock
units awarded on a discretionary basis, the options to purchase shares of common
stock awarded on a discretionary basis and the defined contribution plan provide
that (i) if a change in control occurs and (ii) within 18 months thereafter a
grantee's or participant's employment is terminated by Goldman Sachs other than
for cause or the grantee or participant terminates employment for good reason,
in each case, as determined by Goldman Sachs:
 
- - the common stock underlying any outstanding restricted stock units awarded
  based on a formula will be delivered;
 
- - any outstanding restricted stock units awarded on a discretionary basis will
  vest and the common stock underlying these restricted stock units will be
  delivered;
 
- - any outstanding unexercised options to purchase shares of common stock awarded
  on a discretionary basis will become exercisable and will be exercisable for a
  period of one year following such termination of employment (but in no event
  later than the tenth anniversary of the date of the consummation of our common
  stock offering) and thereafter terminate; and
 
- - under the defined contribution plan, any unvested portion of the common stock
  attributable to the initial contribution by Goldman Sachs to the defined
  contribution plan will vest and be distributed.
 
     "Change in control" means the consummation of a merger, consolidation,
statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. or sale or other disposition of all or substantially
all of the assets of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. to an entity that is not an
affiliate of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. that, in each case, requires
shareholder approval under the law of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.'s
jurisdiction of
 
                                       100
<PAGE>   127
 
organization, unless immediately following such transaction, either:
 
- - at least 50% of the total voting power of the surviving entity or its parent
  entity, if applicable, is represented by securities of The Goldman Sachs
  Group, Inc. that were outstanding immediately prior to the transaction; or
 
- - at least 50% of the members of the board of directors of the surviving entity,
  or its parent entity, if applicable, following the transaction were incumbent
  directors (including directors whose election or nomination was approved by
  the incumbent directors) of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. at the time of the
  board of directors' approval of the execution of the initial agreement
  providing for the transaction.
 
     "Cause" includes, among other things, the grantee's or participant's
conviction of certain misdemeanors or felonies, violation of applicable laws and
violation of any policy of Goldman Sachs, including policies with respect to
hedging and confidentiality.
 
     "Good reason" means a materially adverse alteration in the grantee's or
participant's position or in the nature or status of the grantee's or
participant's responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the
change in control, as determined by Goldman Sachs, or certain relocations by
Goldman Sachs of a grantee's or participant's principal place of employment.
 
THE STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
 
     The following is a description of the material terms of the stock incentive
plan. You should, however, refer to the exhibits that are a part of the
registration statement for a copy of the stock incentive plan. See "Available
Information".
 
     TYPES OF AWARDS.  The stock incentive plan provides for grants of incentive
stock options (within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended), nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights,
dividend equivalent rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other
awards. The stock incentive plan also permits the making of loans to purchase
shares of common stock.
 
     SHARES SUBJECT TO THE STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN; OTHER LIMITATIONS ON
AWARDS.  Subject to adjustment as described below, the total number of shares of
common stock of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. that may be issued under the stock
incentive plan through its fiscal year ending in 2002 may not exceed 300,000,000
shares and, in each fiscal year thereafter, may not exceed five percent (5%) of
the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, determined as of the last day
of the immediately preceding fiscal year, increased by the number of shares
available for awards in previous fiscal years but not covered by awards granted
in such years. These shares may be authorized but unissued common stock or
authorized and issued common stock held in Goldman Sachs' treasury or otherwise
acquired for the purposes of the stock incentive plan. If any award is forfeited
or is otherwise terminated or canceled without the delivery of shares of common
stock, if shares of common stock are surrendered or withheld from any award to
satisfy a grantee's income tax or other withholding obligations, or if shares of
common stock owned by a grantee are tendered to pay the exercise price of
awards, then such shares will again become available under the stock incentive
plan. No more than 200,000,000 shares of common stock may be available for
delivery in connection with the exercise of incentive stock options. The maximum
number of shares of common stock with respect to which options or stock
appreciation rights may be granted to an individual grantee in 1999 is 3,500,000
shares of common stock and, in each fiscal year that follows, is 110% of the
maximum number of shares of common stock applicable for the preceding fiscal
year.
 
     Our Stock Incentive Plan Committee has the authority to adjust the terms of
any outstanding awards and the number of shares of common stock issuable under
the stock incentive plan for any increase or decrease in the number of issued
shares of common stock resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock
dividend, spin-off, combination or reclassification of the common stock,
 
                                       101
<PAGE>   128
 
or any other event that the Stock Incentive Plan Committee determines affects
our capitalization.
 
     ELIGIBILITY.  Awards may be made to any director, officer or employee of
Goldman Sachs, including any prospective employee, and to any consultant or
advisor to Goldman Sachs selected by the Stock Incentive Plan Committee.
 
     ADMINISTRATION.  The stock incentive plan may be administered by our board
of directors or by the Stock Incentive Plan Committee, a committee to be
appointed by our board of directors.
 
     The Stock Incentive Plan Committee will have the authority to construe,
interpret and implement the stock incentive plan, and prescribe, amend and
rescind rules and regulations relating to the stock incentive plan. The
determination of the Stock Incentive Plan Committee on all matters relating to
the stock incentive plan or any award agreement will be final and binding.
 
     STOCK OPTIONS AND STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS.  The Stock Incentive Plan
Committee may grant incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options to
purchase shares of common stock from Goldman Sachs (at the price set forth in
the award agreement), and stock appreciation rights in such amounts, and subject
to such terms and conditions, as the Stock Incentive Plan Committee may
determine. No grantee of an option or stock appreciation right will have any of
the rights of a shareholder of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. with respect to
shares subject to their award until the issuance of the shares.
 
     RESTRICTED STOCK.  The Stock Incentive Plan Committee may grant restricted
shares of common stock in amounts, and subject to terms and conditions, as the
Stock Incentive Plan Committee may determine. The grantee will have the rights
of a shareholder with respect to the restricted stock, subject to any
restrictions and conditions as the Stock Incentive Plan Committee may include in
the award agreement.
 
     RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS.  The Stock Incentive Plan Committee may grant
restricted stock units in amounts, and subject to terms and conditions, as the
Stock Incentive Plan Committee may determine. Recipients of restricted stock
units have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of Goldman Sachs and
no rights as a shareholder of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. until the common
stock underlying the restricted stock units is delivered.
 
     OTHER EQUITY-BASED AWARDS.  The Stock Incentive Plan Committee may grant
other types of equity-based awards, including the grant of unrestricted shares,
in amounts, and subject to terms and conditions, as the Stock Incentive Plan
Committee may determine. These awards may involve the transfer of actual shares
of common stock, or the payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the
value of shares of common stock, and may include awards designed to comply with,
or take advantage of certain benefits of, the local laws of non-U.S.
jurisdictions.
 
     CHANGE IN CONTROL.  The Stock Incentive Plan Committee may provide in any
award agreement for provisions relating to a change in control of The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, including, without
limitation, the acceleration of the exercisability of, or the lapse of
restrictions with respect to, the award.
 
     DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT RIGHTS.  The Stock Incentive Plan Committee may in its
discretion include in the award agreement a dividend equivalent right entitling
the grantee to receive amounts equal to the dividends that would be paid, during
the time such award is outstanding, on the shares of common stock covered by
such award as if such shares were then outstanding.
 
     NONASSIGNABILITY.  Except to the extent otherwise provided in the award
agreement or approved by the Stock Incentive Plan Committee, no award or right
granted to any person under the stock incentive plan will be assignable or
transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and
all awards and rights will be exercisable during the life of the grantee only by
the grantee or the grantee's legal representative.
 
     AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.  Except as otherwise provided in an award
agreement,
                                       102
<PAGE>   129
 
the board of directors may from time to time suspend, discontinue, revise or
amend the stock incentive plan and the Stock Incentive Plan Committee may amend
the terms of any award in any respect.
 
     U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSEQUENCES OF THE STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN.  The
following is a brief description of the material U.S. federal income tax
consequences generally arising with respect to awards.
 
     The grant of an option or stock appreciation right will create no tax
consequences for the participant or Goldman Sachs. Upon exercising an option,
other than an incentive stock option, the participant will generally recognize
ordinary income equal to the difference between the exercise price and the fair
market value of the shares acquired on the date of exercise and Goldman Sachs
generally will be entitled to a tax deduction in the same amount. A participant
generally will not recognize taxable income upon exercising an incentive stock
option and Goldman Sachs will not be entitled to any tax deduction with respect
to an incentive stock option if the participant holds the shares for the
applicable periods specified in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
     With respect to other awards, upon the payment of cash or the issuance of
shares or other property that is either not restricted as to transferability or
not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (e.g., delivery under the
restricted stock units), the participant will generally recognize ordinary
income equal to the cash or the fair market value of shares or other property
delivered. Goldman Sachs generally will be entitled to a deduction in an amount
equal to the ordinary income recognized by the participant.
 
THE DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN
 
     The defined contribution plan is not intended to be qualified under Section
401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and is not subject to
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
 
     The following is a description of the material terms of the defined
contribution plan. You should, however, refer to the exhibits that are a part of
the registration statement for a copy of the defined contribution plan. See
"Available Information".
 
     ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION.  Our board of directors or the Defined
Contribution Plan Committee, a committee to be appointed by our board of
directors, may select the employees to participate in the defined contribution
plan.
 
     CONTRIBUTIONS.  Goldman Sachs has made an initial irrevocable contribution
to the Defined Contribution Plan Trust, the trust underlying the defined
contribution plan, of 12,555,866 shares of common stock simultaneously with the
consummation of our common stock offering. Goldman Sachs may contribute
additional shares of common stock or cash to the Defined Contribution Plan Trust
from time to time in its sole discretion. We currently intend to make ongoing
contributions to the defined contribution plan and to reallocate forfeitures
under the defined contribution plan to participants.
 
     ALLOCATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS.  There will be established an account in the
name of each participant and a separate, unallocated account to which any
forfeitures of common stock will be credited pending reallocation to
participants. The Defined Contribution Plan Committee will designate the number
of shares of common stock allocable to the account of each participant. Any
common stock remaining in the unallocated account as of the last day of each
plan year due to forfeitures and any distributions received on common stock
credited to the unallocated account will be reallocated among the accounts of
participants who are employed by Goldman Sachs on the last day of each plan year
pro rata to each such participant's share of Goldman Sachs contributions, for
that plan year, or on such other formulaic basis as the Defined Contribution
Plan Committee may determine.
 
     VOTING AND TENDERING OF COMMON STOCK. Shares of common stock allocated to
participants who are parties to the shareholders' agreement referred to below
will be voted in accordance with the shareholders' agreement and will be
tendered by the trustee of the Defined Contribution Plan Trust in accordance
 
                                       103
<PAGE>   130
 with confidential instructions provided by the participants if the transfer
restrictions under the shareholders' agreement are waived (and will not be
tendered if the transfer restrictions are not waived). See "Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions -- Shareholders' Agreement" for a
discussion of those provisions. Any shares of common stock allocated to accounts
of participants who are not subject to the shareholders' agreement will be voted
and tendered by the trustee of the Defined Contribution Plan Trust in accordance
with confidential instructions provided by the participant. Shares held in
participants' accounts with respect to which the trustee of the Defined
Contribution Plan Trust does not receive voting or tendering directions will not
be voted or tendered.
 
     Shares of common stock held in the unallocated account will be voted or
tendered by the trustee in the same proportion as the shares of common stock
allocated to participants' accounts with respect to which voting or tendering
instructions are received.
 
     DIVIDENDS.  Any cash dividends on shares of common stock allocated to a
participant's account will be distributed to each participant after the end of
the calendar quarter in which such dividend is received.
 
     VESTING AND DISTRIBUTION.  With respect to the initial contribution of
common stock to the defined contribution plan, the right to receive shares of
common stock allocated to a participant's account generally will become vested,
and the common stock generally will be distributable, in equal installments on
or about the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of such
contribution if the participant satisfies certain conditions and the
participant's employment with Goldman Sachs has not been terminated, with
certain exceptions for termination due to death or following a change in
control.
 
     With respect to contributions to the defined contribution plan (other than
the initial contribution), the Defined Contribution Plan Committee may determine
the dates on which the right to receive common stock (or cash) allocated to a
participant's account will vest and be distributable.
 
     ADMINISTRATION OF THE DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN.  The defined contribution
plan will be administered by the Defined Contribution Plan Committee. Our board
of directors may, however, determine allocations of contributions or resolve to
otherwise administer the defined contribution plan.
 
     AMENDMENTS.  Subject to limitations with respect to contributions
previously made to the defined contribution plan, our board of directors
reserves the right to modify, alter, amend or terminate the defined contribution
plan or the Defined Contribution Plan Trust. No modification or amendment of the
defined contribution plan may be made which would cause or permit any part of
the assets of the Defined Contribution Plan Trust to be used for, or diverted
to, purposes other than for the exclusive benefit of participants or their
beneficiaries, or which would cause any part of the assets of the Defined
Contribution Plan Trust to revert to or become the property of Goldman Sachs.
 
     LIMIT ON LIABILITY.  All distributions under the defined contribution plan
will be paid or provided solely from the assets of the Defined Contribution Plan
Trust and Goldman Sachs will have no responsibility or liability to any
participant or beneficiary relating to the common stock or other assets of the
Defined Contribution Plan Trust. The agreement establishing the Defined
Contribution Plan Trust provides that no creditor of Goldman Sachs will have any
rights to the assets of the Defined Contribution Plan Trust.
 
     U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSEQUENCES. The following is a brief description
of the material U.S. federal income tax consequences generally arising with
respect to participation in the defined contribution plan. A participant in the
defined contribution plan will recognize ordinary income upon the vesting of
shares of common stock allocated to such participant's account in an amount
equal to the fair market value of the vested shares. Goldman Sachs will
generally be entitled to a deduction equal to the fair market value of the
shares at the time of the contribution in the taxable year in which the
participant recognizes income under the defined contribution plan in respect of
the vesting of shares of common stock.
 
                                       104
<PAGE>   131
 
                         THE PARTNER COMPENSATION PLAN
 
OVERVIEW
 
     To perpetuate the sense of partnership and teamwork that exists among our
senior professionals, and to reinforce the alignment of employee and shareholder
interests, our board of directors has adopted a partner compensation plan for
the purpose of compensating senior professionals. The partner compensation plan
may be administered by our board of directors or the Partner Compensation Plan
Committee, a committee to be appointed by our board of directors.
 
     Individuals will be selected to participate in the partner compensation
plan for a one- or two-fiscal year cycle. Upon selection to the partner
compensation plan, participants will be allocated a percentage interest in a
pool for annual bonus payments in addition to base salaries. The size of the
pool will be established by the Partner Compensation Plan Committee annually,
taking into account our results of operations and other measures of financial
performance. The Partner Compensation Plan Committee may also retain an
unallocated percentage of the pool that it may allocate among participants at
fiscal year end in its sole discretion. By linking the participant's annual
bonus payments to our results as a whole, as opposed to the results of any
participant's individual business unit, we believe it will provide additional
incentives for teamwork. Further, we believe that the tying of the bonus
payments to overall financial results will more closely align the interests of
the participants with our shareholders. Finally, we believe that the retention
of a percentage of the pool for allocation among participants at fiscal year end
in amounts determined at the sole discretion of the Partner Compensation Plan
Committee will provide appropriate compensation flexibility.
 
     The following is a description of the material terms of the partner
compensation plan. You should, however, refer to the exhibits that are a part of
the registration statement for a copy of the partner compensation plan. See
"Available Information".
 
ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION
 
     Consistent with our historical practice of partnership elections, the
initial cycle will be through the end of fiscal 2000. It is expected that the
participants in the initial cycle will consist of the continuing managing
directors who were profit participating limited partners. Prior to the one- or
two-fiscal year cycle commencing with fiscal 2001, and on or before each
succeeding cycle, the Partner Compensation Plan Committee will determine the
participants in the partner compensation plan. Individual participants may also
be added from time to time outside the annual or biennial selection process.
 
DETERMINATION OF SALARY AND BONUS
 
     The aggregate amount of compensation to be included in the partner
compensation plan for each fiscal year will be determined by the Partner
Compensation Plan Committee, taking into account measures of our financial
performance it deems appropriate (which in 1999 will include a full year's
results), including, but not limited to, earnings per share, return on average
common equity, pre-tax income, pre-tax operating income, net revenues, net
income, profits before taxes, book value per share, stock price, earnings
available to common shareholders and ratio of compensation and benefits to net
revenues.
 
     Prior to the commencement of the first fiscal year in any one- or
two-fiscal year cycle, and prior to the consummation of our common stock
offering in the case of the initial cycle, the Partner Compensation Plan
Committee will determine both the salaries of and the percentage of the partner
compensation plan pool that may be allocable to any particular participant. The
percentage allocated to any particular participant is expected to be applicable
for each fiscal year within the applicable cycle. Any remaining portion of the
partner compensation plan pool not so allocated will be allocated to individual
participants at the end of the fiscal year in amounts determined by the Partner
Compensation Plan Committee.
 
     Amounts payable under the partner compensation plan will be satisfied in
cash or as awards under the stock incentive plan, as determined by the Partner
Compensation Plan Committee and recommended to the Stock Incentive Plan
Committee.
 
                                       105
<PAGE>   132
 
                             PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS
 
     The following table sets forth as of the date of this prospectus certain
information regarding the beneficial ownership of our common stock by:
 
- -  each person who is known to Goldman Sachs to be the beneficial owner of more
   than 5% of our common stock;
 
- -  each director and named executive officer of Goldman Sachs; and
 
- -  all directors and executive officers of Goldman Sachs as a group.
 
     This information gives effect to our common stock offering, and to the
incorporation transactions, and the related transactions that are described and
defined under "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions -- Incorporation
and Related Transactions".
 
     Except as otherwise indicated, the persons or entities listed below have
sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares beneficially owned
by them. None of our employees sold shares of common stock in our common stock
offering.
 
     For purposes of this table, information as to the shares of common stock is
calculated based on 437,245,963 shares of common stock outstanding upon the
closing of our common stock offering. For purposes of this table, "beneficial
ownership" is determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, pursuant to which a person or group of persons is deemed
to have "beneficial ownership" of any shares of common stock that such person
has the right to acquire within 60 days after the date of this prospectus. For
purposes of computing the percentage of outstanding shares of common stock held
by each person or group of persons named below, any shares which such person or
persons has the right to acquire within 60 days after the date of this
prospectus are deemed to be outstanding but are not deemed to be outstanding for
the purpose of computing the percentage ownership of any other person.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               SHARES BENEFICIALLY
                                                                      OWNED
                                                              ----------------------
NAME                                                            NUMBER       PERCENT
- ----                                                            ------       -------
<S>                                                           <C>            <C>
5% Shareholder:
  Kamehameha Activities Association(1)......................   21,975,421      5.0%
Directors and named executive officers:
  Henry M. Paulson, Jr.(2)..................................    4,132,235        *
  Robert J. Hurst(2)........................................    3,835,124        *
  John A. Thain(2)..........................................    3,101,426        *
  John L. Thornton(2).......................................    3,012,541        *
  Sir John Browne(2)........................................            0       --
  James A. Johnson(2).......................................            0       --
  John L. Weinberg(2).......................................      444,444        *
  Jon S. Corzine(3).........................................    4,414,198      1.0
  Roy J. Zuckerberg(4)......................................    3,026,974        *
All directors and continuing executive officers as a group
  (13 persons)(5)...........................................   26,152,648      6.0
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
 *  Less than 1% of the outstanding shares of common stock.
 
(1) 567 South King Street, Suite 150, Honolulu, Hawaii 96813. Kamehameha
    Activities Association in the ordinary course of business is an investor in
    a number of Goldman Sachs' merchant banking funds and from time to time is a
    party to other transactions with Goldman Sachs. These investments and
    transactions are negotiated on an arm's-length basis and contain customary
    terms and conditions.
 
                                         (Footnotes continued on following page)
 
                                       106
<PAGE>   133
 
(2) c/o The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., 85 Broad Street, New York, New York
    10004. Excludes any shares of common stock subject to the shareholders'
    agreement referred to below that are owned by other parties to the
    shareholders' agreement. While each of Messrs. Paulson, Hurst, Thain and
    Thornton is a party to the shareholders' agreement and is a member of the
    Shareholders' Committee, each disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares
    of common stock subject to the shareholders' agreement other than those
    specified above for each such person individually, and each disclaims
    beneficial ownership of the shares of common stock subject to the voting
    agreements between Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha
    Activities Association, respectively, on the one hand, and Goldman Sachs, on
    the other hand. See "Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions -- Shareholders' Agreement" for a discussion of the
    shareholders' agreement and the voting agreements.
 
(3) Mr. Corzine, who resigned from Goldman Sachs prior to the consummation of
    our common stock offering, served as Chairman or Co-Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer or Co-Chief Executive Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group,
    L.P. during fiscal 1998.
 
(4) Mr. Zuckerberg, who retired in November 1998, served as Vice Chairman of The
    Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. during fiscal 1998.
 
(5) Total excludes the shares of common stock beneficially owned by Messrs.
    Corzine and Zuckerberg, former executive officers of The Goldman Sachs
    Group, L.P. Each continuing executive officer is a party to the
    shareholders' agreement and each disclaims beneficial ownership of the
    shares of common stock subject to the shareholders' agreement other than
    those specified above, and each disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares
    of common stock subject to the voting agreements between Sumitomo Bank
    Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association, respectively,
    on the one hand, and Goldman Sachs, on the other hand. See "Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions -- Shareholders' Agreement" for a
    discussion of the shareholders' agreement and the voting agreements.
 
                                       107
<PAGE>   134
 
                 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     The following are descriptions of the material provisions of the agreements
and other documents discussed below. You should, however, refer to the exhibits
that are a part of the registration statement for a copy of each agreement and
document. See "Available Information".
 
                     INCORPORATION AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     Simultaneously with the consummation of our common stock offering, we
completed a number of transactions in order to have The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. succeed to the business of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.
 
     The principal incorporation transactions and related transactions are
summarized below.
 
INCORPORATION TRANSACTIONS
 
     Pursuant to our plan of incorporation:
 
- - The Goldman Sachs Corporation, which was the general partner of The Goldman
  Sachs Group, L.P., merged into The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. In this
  transaction, the managing directors who were profit participating limited
  partners and who were shareholders of The Goldman Sachs Corporation received
  common stock and the other shareholders of The Goldman Sachs Corporation
  received common stock;
 
- - The managing directors who were profit participating limited partners
  exchanged their interests in The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and certain
  affiliates for 265,019,073 shares of common stock (these amounts include
  shares issued in the merger of The Goldman Sachs Corporation into The Goldman
  Sachs Group, Inc.);
 
- - The retired limited partners of Goldman Sachs exchanged their interests in The
  Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and certain affiliates for cash, junior subordinated
  debentures or common stock (or a combination thereof). These transactions
  resulted in the payment of approximately $891 million in cash and the issuance
  of $295 million principal amount of junior subordinated debentures and of
  47,270,551 shares of common stock (these amounts include the shares of common
  stock and cash issued to the retired limited partners in the merger of The
  Goldman Sachs Corporation into The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.);
 
- - Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. exchanged its interests in The Goldman
  Sachs Group, L.P. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. for 30,425,052 shares of common
  stock and 7,440,362 shares of nonvoting common stock;
 
- - Kamehameha Activities Association exchanged its interests in The Goldman Sachs
  Group, L.P. for 30,975,421 shares of common stock; and
 
- - After all the interests of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. were transferred to
  The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. was merged into
  The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
 
RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
- - The restricted stock units awarded to employees based on a formula or on a
  discretionary basis as well as options to purchase shares of common stock
  awarded on a discretionary basis were granted, the initial irrevocable
  contribution of shares of common stock to the defined contribution plan was
  made and certain senior employees, principally managing directors who were not
  profit participating limited partners, were selected to participate in the
  defined contribution plan; and
 
- - In connection with our common stock offering, we will make a $200 million cash
  contribution to the Goldman Sachs Fund, a charitable foundation. The Goldman
  Sachs Fund, which has been in existence for over 30 years, is the entity that
  has historically conducted charitable initiatives for Goldman Sachs. The
  Goldman Sachs Fund is subject to United States federal tax rules that prohibit
  it from engaging in any act of self-dealing or any activities that result in
  an impermissible benefit to private persons. While the Goldman Sachs Fund has
  no specific intention to contribute to organiza-
 
                                       108
<PAGE>   135
 
 tions with which Goldman Sachs' executive officers or directors are affiliated,
 the Goldman Sachs Fund may in the future make contributions to educational and
 other organizations with which Goldman Sachs' directors or executive officers
 are involved.
 
                            SHAREHOLDERS' AGREEMENT
 
PERSONS AND SHARES COVERED
 
     Each former profit participating limited partner, other than Sumitomo Bank
Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association, and each other
person who was a managing director on the date of the consummation of our common
stock offering became a party to the shareholders' agreement. In addition, each
person who becomes a managing director thereafter will become a party to the
shareholders' agreement. Not less than 281,000,000 shares of common stock are
subject to the shareholders' agreement.
 
     The shares covered by the shareholders' agreement include generally all
shares of common stock acquired from Goldman Sachs by a party to the
shareholders' agreement, including:
 
- - any shares of common stock received by the managing directors who were profit
  participating limited partners pursuant to the incorporation transactions,
  except for certain shares that aggregate less than 140,000 shares;
 
- - any shares of common stock received from the defined contribution plan;
 
- - any shares of common stock received pursuant to the restricted stock units
  awarded to employees based on a formula, the restricted stock units awarded on
  a discretionary basis or the options to purchase shares of common stock
  awarded on a discretionary basis; and
 
- - unless otherwise determined by our board of directors and the Shareholders'
  Committee referred to below, any shares of common stock received from Goldman
  Sachs through any other employee compensation, benefit or similar plan.
 
     Shares of common stock purchased in the open market or in a subsequent
underwritten public offering will not be subject to the shareholders' agreement.
The Shareholders' Committee may also exclude from the application of all or part
of the shareholders' agreement all or any portion of the common stock acquired
by a managing director who is a new employee of Goldman Sachs.
 
TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS
 
     Each party to the shareholders' agreement agrees, among other things, to:
 
- - have beneficial ownership while he or she is a managing director of at least
  25% of the cumulative number of his or her shares that are beneficially owned
  or acquired, and are or become subject to the shareholders' agreement; and
 
- - comply with the underwriters' 180-day lock-up arrangement in connection with
  our common stock offering.
 
     The former profit participating limited partners, other than Sumitomo Bank
Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association, are subject to
additional restrictions on their ability to transfer shares received in
connection with the incorporation transactions described under "-- Incorporation
and Related Transactions -- Incorporation Transactions". Under these additional
restrictions, each of these persons has agreed that he or she will not transfer
any of these shares, other than up to 140,000 shares in the aggregate that will
be excluded from these restrictions, until the third anniversary of the date of
the consummation of our common stock offering. These restrictions will lapse in
equal installments on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the
date of the consummation of our common stock offering.
 
     All transfer restrictions applicable to a party to the shareholders'
agreement, except for the underwriters' 180-day lock-up, terminate upon death.
 
WAIVERS
 
     Except in the case of a third-party tender or exchange offer, the
additional transfer restrictions applicable to profit participating limited
partners, other than Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activi-
 
                                       109
<PAGE>   136
 
ties Association, may be waived or terminated at any time by the Shareholders'
Committee. The Shareholders' Committee also has the power to waive the other
transfer restrictions to permit parties to the shareholders' agreement to:
 
- - participate as sellers in underwritten public offerings of common stock and
  tender and exchange offers and share repurchase programs by Goldman Sachs;
 
- - transfer shares to charities, including charitable foundations;
 
- - transfer shares held in employee benefit plans; and
 
- - transfer shares in specific transactions (for example, to immediate family
  members and trusts) or circumstances.
 
     In the case of a third-party tender or exchange offer, all transfer
restrictions may be waived or terminated:
 
- - if our board of directors is recommending acceptance or is not making any
  recommendation with respect to acceptance of the tender or exchange offer, by
  a majority of the voting interests referred to below; or
 
- - if our board of directors is recommending rejection of the tender or exchange
  offer, by 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting interests referred to below.
 
     In the case of a tender or exchange offer by Goldman Sachs, a majority of
the outstanding voting interests may also elect to waive or terminate the
transfer restrictions.
 
     In any event, the underwriters' 180-day lock-up may not be waived without
the consent of the underwriters.
 
VOTING
 
     Prior to any vote of the shareholders of Goldman Sachs, the shareholders'
agreement requires a separate, preliminary vote of the voting interests on each
matter upon which a vote of the shareholders is proposed to be taken. Each share
subject to the shareholders' agreement will be voted in accordance with the
majority of the votes cast by the voting interests in the preliminary vote. In
elections of directors, each share subject to the shareholders' agreement will
be voted in favor of the election of those persons receiving the highest numbers
of votes cast by the voting interests in the preliminary vote. Prior to January
1, 2001, "voting interests" means all shares that are subject to the
shareholders' agreement. Thereafter, "voting interests" means all shares subject
to the shareholders' agreement held by all managing directors.
 
OTHER RESTRICTIONS
 
     The shareholders' agreement also prevents the persons subject to the
shareholders' agreement from engaging in the following activities relating to
any securities of Goldman Sachs with any person who is not a person subject to
the shareholders' agreement or a director or employee of Goldman Sachs:
 
- - participating in a proxy solicitation;
 
- - depositing any shares subject to the shareholders' agreement in a voting trust
  or subjecting any of these shares to any voting agreement or arrangement;
 
- - forming, joining or in any way participating in a "group"; or
 
- - proposing certain transactions with Goldman Sachs or seeking the removal of
  any of our directors or any change in the composition of our board of
  directors.
 
TERM, AMENDMENT AND CONTINUATION
 
     The shareholders' agreement is to continue in effect until the earlier of
January 1, 2050 and the time it is terminated by the vote of 66 2/3% of the
outstanding voting interests referred to above. The additional transfer
restrictions applicable to profit participating limited partners, other than
Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association, will
not terminate upon the expiration or termination of the shareholders' agreement
unless previously waived or terminated or unless subsequently waived or
terminated by our board of directors. The shareholders' agreement may generally
be amended at any time by a majority of the outstanding voting interests
referred to above.
 
     Unless otherwise terminated, in the event of any transaction in which a
third party
                                       110
<PAGE>   137
succeeds to the business of Goldman Sachs and in which persons subject to the
shareholders' agreement hold securities of the third party, the shareholders'
agreement will remain in full force and effect as to the securities of the third
party, and the third party shall succeed to the rights and obligations of
Goldman Sachs under the shareholders' agreement.
 
INFORMATION REGARDING THE SHAREHOLDERS' COMMITTEE
 
     The terms and provisions of the shareholders' agreement are administered by
the Shareholders' Committee. The Shareholders' Committee initially consists of
the persons subject to the shareholders' agreement who are both employees of
Goldman Sachs and members of our board of directors. It is possible that over
time all or a majority of the members of the Shareholders' Committee will not be
members of our board of directors.
 
     Members of the Shareholders' Committee are entitled to indemnification from
Goldman Sachs in their capacities as members of the Shareholders' Committee.
 
                                VOTING AGREEMENT
 
     Both Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities
Association have agreed to vote their shares of common stock in the same manner
as a majority of the shares of common stock held by the managing directors of
Goldman Sachs are voted. The obligations of Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc.
and Kamehameha Activities Association under the voting agreements are
enforceable by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. The managing directors have no
right to enforce the voting agreements.
 
                         INSTRUMENT OF INDEMNIFICATION
 
     In connection with our common stock offering, Goldman Sachs entered into an
instrument of indemnification. The instrument of indemnification covers certain
former partners of Goldman Sachs, including the managing directors who were
profit participating limited partners, each current director and executive
officer of Goldman Sachs, the retired limited partners, Sumitomo Bank Capital
Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association. Under the instrument of
indemnification, in the event any indemnitee is, or is threatened to be, made a
party to any action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that such
indemnitee was a general or limited partner, shareholder, member, director,
officer, employee or agent of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. or certain of its
affiliates or subsidiaries or is serving or served, at the request of The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. or certain of its affiliates or subsidiaries, in any
of these capacities in another enterprise, Goldman Sachs is, subject to certain
exceptions, obligated to indemnify and hold such indemnitee harmless from any
losses, damages or expenses incurred by such indemnitee in the action, suit or
proceeding. The instrument of indemnification does not duplicate the obligations
of Goldman Sachs under the tax indemnification agreement described below. The
indemnification obligation of Goldman Sachs under the instrument of
indemnification also extends to the indemnification obligations that certain
indemnitees, including each current director and executive officer of The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., may have to other indemnitees.
 
     The instrument of indemnification also provides that Goldman Sachs will,
subject to certain exceptions, release each indemnitee from all actions, suits
or other claims that The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. may have had or which Goldman
Sachs, as a successor to The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., may have arising out of
an indemnitee's partnership or other interest in The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.
or certain of its affiliates or subsidiaries or arising out of the conduct of
such indemnitee while engaged in the conduct of the business of The Goldman
Sachs Group, L.P. or its affiliates or subsidiaries.
 
                      DIRECTOR AND OFFICER INDEMNIFICATION
 
     We have entered into an agreement that provides indemnification to our
directors and officers and to the directors and certain officers of the general
partner of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., members of our Management Committee or
our Partnership Committee or the former Executive Commit-
                                       111
<PAGE>   138
 
tee of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and all other persons requested or
authorized by our board of directors or the board of directors of the general
partner of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. to take actions on behalf of us, The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. or the general partner of The Goldman Sachs Group,
L.P. in connection with the plan of incorporation, the registration statement
and certain other registration statements for all losses, damages, costs and
expenses incurred by the indemnified person arising out of the relevant
registration statements or the transactions contemplated by the plan of
incorporation. This agreement is in addition to our indemnification obligations
under our by-laws.
 
                       TAX INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT AND
                                RELATED MATTERS
 
     An entity that has historically operated in corporate form generally is
liable for any adjustments to the corporation's taxes for periods prior to its
initial public offering. In contrast, the former partners of The Goldman Sachs
Group, L.P., rather than Goldman Sachs, will generally be liable for adjustments
to taxes (including U.S. federal and state income taxes) attributable to the
operations of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and its affiliates prior to our
common stock offering. In connection with our common stock offering, we entered
into a tax indemnification agreement to indemnify certain former limited
partners of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., including the managing directors who
were profit participating limited partners, each then-current director and
executive officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., the retired limited
partners, Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities
Association, against certain increases in each tax indemnitee's taxes that
relate to activities of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. or certain of its
affiliates in respect of periods prior to our common stock offering. We will be
required to make additional payments to offset any taxes payable by a tax
indemnitee in respect of payments made pursuant to the tax indemnification
agreement only to the extent the payments made to that tax indemnitee exceed a
fixed amount. Any such payment of additional taxes by Goldman Sachs will be
offset by any tax benefit received by the tax indemnitee.
 
     The tax indemnification agreement includes provisions that permit Goldman
Sachs to control any tax proceeding or contest which might result in Goldman
Sachs being required to make a payment under the tax indemnification agreement.
 
     The incorporation transactions described under "-- Incorporation and
Related Transactions -- Incorporation Transactions" were structured in a manner
that is not expected to result in a significantly disproportionate tax or other
burden to any former partner of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. If the
incorporation transactions have a disproportionate effect on any partner,
Goldman Sachs may, but is not required to, make special payments and
arrangements with any person who incurs a disproportionate tax or other burden.
 
                                       112
<PAGE>   139
 
                       DESCRIPTION OF NOTES WE MAY OFFER
 
Please note that in this section entitled "Description of Notes We May Offer",
references to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., we, our and us refer only to The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and not to its consolidated subsidiaries. Also, in
this section, references to Holders mean those who own notes registered in their
own names, on the books that we or the trustee maintain for this purpose, and
not those who own beneficial interests in notes registered in street name or in
notes issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company. Owners of
beneficial interests in the notes should read the subsection entitled "-- Legal
Ownership of Notes".
 
                       INFORMATION ABOUT OUR MEDIUM-TERM
                                  NOTE PROGRAM
 
THE NOTES WILL BE ISSUED UNDER THE INDENTURE
 
     As required by U.S. federal law for all bonds and notes of companies that
are publicly offered, the notes are governed by a document called the indenture.
The indenture is a contract between us and The Bank of New York, which acts as
trustee. The trustee has two main roles:
 
- - First, the trustee can enforce your rights against us if we default. There are
  limitations on the extent to which the trustee acts on your behalf, which we
  describe later under "-- Default, Remedies and Waiver of Default"; and
 
- - Second, the trustee performs administrative duties for us, such as sending you
  interest payments and notices.
 
WE MAY ISSUE OTHER SERIES OF DEBT SECURITIES
 
     The indenture permits us to issue different series of debt securities from
time to time. The Series B medium-term notes will be a single, distinct series
of debt securities. We may, however, issue notes in such amounts, at such times
and on such terms as we wish. The notes will differ from one another, and from
other series, in their terms.
 
     This section summarizes the material terms that will apply generally to the
notes as a series. Each particular note will have financial and other terms
specific to it, and the specific terms of each note will be described in a
prospectus supplement attached to the front of this prospectus. Those terms may
vary from the terms described here. As you read this section, therefore, please
remember that the specific terms of your note as described in your prospectus
supplement will supplement and, if applicable, may modify or replace the general
terms described in this section. The statements we make in this section may not
apply to your note.
 
     When we refer to the notes, the Series B medium-term notes or these notes,
we mean the Medium-Term Notes, Series B. When we refer to a series of debt
securities, we mean a series, such as the notes, issued under the indenture.
When we refer to your prospectus supplement, we mean the prospectus supplement
describing the specific terms of the note you purchase.
 
AMOUNTS THAT WE MAY ISSUE
 
     The indenture does not limit the aggregate amount of debt securities that
we may issue, nor does it limit the number of series or the aggregate amount of
any particular series. We have initially authorized the issuance of Series B
medium-term notes in such amounts as will not result in the notes having an
aggregate initial offering price greater than $15,000,000,000, or an equivalent
amount in any other currency or currency unit. We may, however, increase this
authorized amount at any time without your consent.
 
     The indenture and the notes do not limit our ability to incur other
indebtedness or to issue other securities. Also, we are not subject to financial
or similar restrictions by the terms of the notes, except as described under
"-- Restrictive Covenant and Defeasance -- Restriction on Liens" below.
 
HOW THE NOTES RANK AGAINST OTHER DEBT
 
     The Series B medium-term notes will not be secured by any property or
assets of The
 
                                       113
<PAGE>   140
 
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries. Thus, by owning a note, you are
one of our unsecured creditors.
 
     The notes will not be subordinated to any of our other debt obligations.
This means that, in a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding against us, the notes
would rank equally in right of payment with all other unsecured and
unsubordinated debt of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
 
     An investment in the notes involves risks because we are a holding company
and because our principal U.S. subsidiary, Goldman, Sachs & Co., is a
partnership in which we are a general partner. We summarize these risks above
under "Risk Factors -- Investors in the Notes Face Additional Risk Because The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Is a Holding Company", "-- The Value of the Notes May
Be Impaired Because We Depend on Funds from Our Regulated Subsidiaries" and
"-- We May Be Liable to Creditors of Our Partnership Subsidiaries".
 
THIS SECTION IS ONLY A SUMMARY
 
     The indenture and its associated documents, including your note, contain
the full legal text of the matters described in this section and your prospectus
supplement. The indenture and the notes are governed by New York law. A copy of
the indenture has been filed with the SEC as part of our registration statement.
See "Available Information" below for information on how to obtain a copy.
 
     This section and your prospectus supplement summarize all the material
terms of the indenture and your note. They do not, however, describe every
aspect of the indenture and your note. For example, in this section and your
prospectus supplement, we use terms that have been given special meaning in the
indenture, but we describe the meaning of only the more important of those
terms.
 
                          FEATURES COMMON TO ALL NOTES
 
STATED MATURITY AND MATURITY
 
     The day on which the principal amount of your note is scheduled to become
due is called the stated maturity of the principal and is specified in your
prospectus supplement. The principal may become due sooner, by reason of
redemption or acceleration after a default. The day on which the principal
actually becomes due, whether at the stated maturity or earlier, is called the
maturity of the principal.
 
     We also use the terms "stated maturity" and "maturity" to refer to the
dates when other payments become due. For example, we may refer to a regular
interest payment date when an installment of interest is scheduled to become due
as the "stated maturity" of that installment. When we refer to the "stated
maturity" or the "maturity" of a note without specifying a particular payment,
we mean the stated maturity or maturity, as the case may be, of the principal.
 
CURRENCY OF NOTES
 
     Amounts that become due and payable on your note will be payable in a
currency, composite currency, basket of currencies or currency unit or units
specified in your prospectus supplement.
 
     We refer to this currency, composite currency, basket of currencies or
currency unit or units as a specified currency. The specified currency for your
note will be U.S. dollars, unless your prospectus supplement states otherwise.
Some notes may have different specified currencies for principal and interest.
 
     You will have to pay for your notes by delivering the requisite amount of
the specified currency for the principal to Goldman, Sachs & Co. or another
dealer that we name in your prospectus supplement, unless other arrangements
have been made between you and us or you and that dealer. We will make payments
on your notes in the specified currency, except as described below in
"-- Payment Mechanics".
 
TYPES OF NOTES
 
     We will issue the following three types of notes:
 
- - FIXED RATE NOTES.  A note of this type will bear interest at a fixed rate
  described in the applicable prospectus supplement. This type includes zero
  coupon notes, which
 
                                       114
<PAGE>   141
 
  bear no interest and are instead issued at a price lower than the principal
  amount.
 
- - FLOATING RATE NOTES.  A note of this type will bear interest at rates that are
  determined by reference to an interest rate formula. In some cases, the rates
  may also be adjusted by adding or subtracting a spread or multiplying by a
  spread multiplier and may be subject to a minimum rate or a maximum rate. The
  various interest rate formulas and these other features are described below in
  "-- Interest Rates -- Floating Rate Notes". If your note is a floating rate
  note, the formula and any adjustments that apply to the interest rate will be
  specified in your prospectus supplement.
 
- - INDEXED NOTES.  A note of this type provides that the principal amount payable
  at its maturity, and/or the amount of interest payable on an interest payment
  date, will be determined by reference to one or more stocks, including baskets
  of stocks and stock indices, or to any other index described in the applicable
  prospectus supplement. If you are a Holder of an indexed note, you may receive
  a principal amount at maturity that is greater than or less than the face
  amount of your note depending upon the value of the applicable index at
  maturity. That value may fluctuate over time. Some indexed notes may also be
  exchangeable, at the option of the Holder or The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.,
  into stock of an issuer other than The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. If you
  purchase an indexed note, your prospectus supplement will include information
  about the relevant index and about how amounts that are to become payable will
  be determined by reference to that index. Before you purchase any indexed
  note, you should read carefully the section entitled "Risk Factors -- An
  Investment in Indexed Notes Presents Significant Risks Not Associated with
  Other Types of Notes" and any other risk factors which are specified in the
  applicable prospectus supplement.
 
ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT NOTES
 
     A fixed rate note, a floating rate note or an indexed note may be an
original issue discount note. A note of this type is issued at a price lower
than its principal amount and provides that, upon redemption or acceleration of
its maturity, an amount less than its principal amount will be payable. A note
issued at a discount to its principal may, for U.S. federal income tax purposes,
be considered an original issue discount note, regardless of the amount payable
upon redemption or acceleration of maturity. See "United States
Taxation -- United States Holders -- Original Issue Discount" below for a brief
description of the U.S. federal income tax consequences of owning an original
issue discount note.
 
INFORMATION IN THE PROSPECTUS SUPPLEMENT
 
     Your prospectus supplement will describe one or more of the following terms
of your note:
 
- - the stated maturity;
 
- - the specified currency or currencies for principal and interest, if not U.S.
  dollars;
 
- - the price at which we originally issue your note, expressed as a percentage of
  the principal amount, and the original issue date;
 
     -- MARKET-MAKING TRANSACTIONS. If you purchase your note in a market-making
        transaction, you will receive information about the price you pay and
        your trade and settlement dates in a separate confirmation of sale. A
        market-making transaction is one in which Goldman, Sachs & Co. or
        another of our affiliates resells a note that it has previously acquired
        from another holder. A market-making transaction in a particular note
        occurs after the original issuance and sale of the note.
 
- - whether your note is a fixed rate note, a floating rate note or an indexed
  note and also whether it is an original issue discount note;
 
- - if your note is a fixed rate note, the yearly rate at which your note will
  bear interest, if
 
                                       115
<PAGE>   142
 
  any, and the interest payment dates, if different from those set forth below
  under "-- Interest Rates -- Fixed Rate Notes";
 
- - if your note is a floating rate note, the interest rate basis, which may be
  one of the nine base rates described in "-- Interest Rates -- Floating Rate
  Notes" below; any applicable index currency or maturity, spread or spread
  multiplier or initial, maximum or minimum rate; the interest reset,
  determination, calculation and payment dates; and the calculation agent, all
  of which we describe under "-- Interest Rates -- Floating Rate Notes" below;
 
- - if your note is an original issue discount note, the yield to maturity;
 
- - if your note is an indexed note, the principal amount, if any, we will pay you
  at maturity, the amount of interest, if any, we will pay you on an interest
  payment date or the formula we will use to calculate these amounts, if any,
  and whether your note will be exchangeable for or payable in stock of an
  issuer other than The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. or other property;
 
- - whether your note may be redeemed at our option or repaid at the Holder's
  option prior to the stated maturity and, if so, other relevant terms such as
  the redemption commencement date, repayment date(s), redemption price(s) and
  redemption period(s), all of which we describe under "-- Redemption and
  Repayment" below;
 
- - whether we will issue or make available your note in non-book-entry form; and
 
- - any other terms of your note that are not inconsistent with the provisions of
  the indenture, which other terms could be different from those described in
  this prospectus.
 
     Your prospectus supplement will summarize specific financial and other
terms of your note, while this prospectus describes terms that apply generally
to the notes as a series. Consequently, the terms described in your prospectus
supplement will supplement those described in this prospectus and, if the terms
described there are inconsistent with those described here, the terms described
there will be controlling. The terms used in your prospectus supplement have the
meanings described in this prospectus, unless otherwise specified.
 
                            LEGAL OWNERSHIP OF NOTES
 
     We refer to those who have notes registered in their own names, on the
books that we or the trustee maintain for this purpose, as the "Holders" of
those notes. These persons are the legal holders of the notes. We refer to those
who, indirectly through others, own beneficial interests in notes that are not
registered in their own names as indirect holders of those notes. As we discuss
below, indirect holders are not legal holders, and investors in notes issued in
book-entry form or in street name will be indirect holders.
 
BOOK-ENTRY HOLDERS
 
     We will issue each note in book-entry form only, unless we specify
otherwise in the applicable prospectus supplement. This means notes will be
represented by one or more global notes registered in the name of a financial
institution that holds them as depositary on behalf of other financial
institutions that participate in the depositary's book-entry system. These
participating institutions, in turn, hold beneficial interests in the notes on
behalf of themselves or their customers.
 
     Under the indenture, only the person in whose name a note is registered is
recognized as the Holder of that note. Consequently, for notes issued in global
form, we will recognize only the depositary as the Holder of the notes and we
will make all payments on the notes to the depositary. The depositary passes
along the payments it receives to its participants, which in turn pass the
payments along to their customers who are the beneficial owners. The depositary
and its participants do so under agreements they have made with one another or
with their customers; they are not obligated to do so under the terms of the
notes.
 
     As a result, investors will not own notes directly. Instead, they will own
beneficial interests in a global note, through a bank, broker or other financial
institution that participates in the depositary's book-entry system or
 
                                       116
<PAGE>   143
 
holds an interest through a participant. As long as the notes are issued in
global form, investors will be indirect holders, and not Holders, of the notes.
 
STREET NAME HOLDERS
 
     In the future we may terminate a global note or issue notes initially in
non-global form. In these cases, investors may choose to hold their notes in
their own names or in "street name". Notes held by an investor in street name
would be registered in the name of a bank, broker or other financial institution
that the investor chooses, and the investor would hold only a beneficial
interest in those notes through an account he or she maintains at that
institution.
 
     For notes held in street name, we will recognize only the intermediary
banks, brokers and other financial institutions in whose names the notes are
registered as the Holders of those notes and we will make all payments on those
notes to them. These institutions pass along the payments they receive to their
customers who are the beneficial owners, but only because they agree to do so in
their customer agreements or because they are legally required to do so.
Investors who hold notes in street name will be indirect holders, not Holders,
of those notes.
 
LEGAL HOLDERS
 
     Our obligations, as well as the obligations of the trustee and those of any
third parties employed by us or the trustee, run only to the Holders of the
notes. We do not have obligations to investors who hold beneficial interests in
global notes, in street name or by any other indirect means. This will be the
case whether an investor chooses to be an indirect holder of a note or has no
choice because we are issuing the notes only in global form.
 
     For example, once we make a payment or give a notice to the Holder, we have
no further responsibility for that payment or notice even if that Holder is
required, under agreements with depositary participants or customers or by law,
to pass it along to the indirect holders but does not do so. Similarly, if we
want to obtain the approval of the Holders for any purpose -- e.g., to amend the
indenture or to relieve us of the consequences of a default or of our obligation
to comply with a particular provision of the indenture -- we would seek the
approval only from the Holders, and not the indirect holders, of the notes.
Whether and how the Holders contact the indirect holders is up to the Holders.
 
     When we refer to you, we mean those who invest in the notes being offered
by this prospectus, whether they are the Holders or only indirect holders of
those notes. When we refer to your notes, we mean the notes in which you hold a
direct or indirect interest.
 
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR INDIRECT HOLDERS
 
     If you hold notes through a bank, broker or other financial institution,
either in book-entry form or in street name, you should check with your own
institution to find out:
 
- - how it handles securities payments and notices;
 
- - whether it imposes fees or charges;
 
- - how it would handle a request for the Holders' consent, if ever required;
 
- - whether and how you can instruct it to send you notes registered in your own
  name so you can be a Holder, if that is permitted in the future;
 
- - how it would exercise rights under the notes if there were a default or other
  event triggering the need for Holders to act to protect their interests; and
 
- - if the notes are in book-entry form, how the depositary's rules and procedures
  will affect these matters.
 
                             WHAT IS A GLOBAL NOTE?
 
     We will issue each note in book-entry form only, unless we specify
otherwise in the applicable prospectus supplement. Each note issued in
book-entry form will be represented by a global note that we deposit with and
register in the name of a financial institution or its nominee, that we select.
The financial institution that we select for this purpose is called the
depositary. Unless we specify oth-
 
                                       117
<PAGE>   144
 
erwise in the applicable prospectus supplement, The Depository Trust
Company, New York, New York, known as DTC, will be the depositary for
all notes issued in book-entry form.
 
     A global note may represent one or any other number of individual notes.
Generally, all notes represented by the same global note will have the same
terms. We may, however, issue a global note that represents multiple notes that
have different terms and are issued at different times. We call this kind of
global note a master global note.
 
     A global note may not be transferred to or registered in the name of anyone
other than the depositary or its nominee, unless special termination situations
arise. We describe those situations below under "-- Special Situations When a
Global Note Will Be Terminated". As a result of these arrangements, the
depositary, or its nominee, will be the sole registered owner and Holder of all
notes represented by a global note, and investors will be permitted to own only
beneficial interests in a global note. Beneficial interests must be held by
means of an account with a broker, bank or other financial institution that in
turn has an account with the depositary or with another institution that does.
Thus, an investor whose note is represented by a global note will not be a
Holder of the note, but only an indirect holder of a beneficial interest in the
global note.
 
     If the prospectus supplement for a particular note indicates that the note
will be issued in global form only, then the note will be represented by a
global note at all times unless and until the global note is terminated. We
describe the situations in which this can occur below under "-- Special
Situations When a Global Note Will Be Terminated". The global note may be a
master global note, although your prospectus supplement will not indicate
whether it is a master global note. If termination occurs, we may issue the
notes through another book-entry clearing system or decide that the notes may no
longer be held through any book-entry clearing system.
 
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR GLOBAL NOTES
 
     As an indirect holder, an investor's rights relating to a global note will
be governed by the account rules of the investor's financial institution and of
the depositary, as well as general laws relating to securities transfers. We do
not recognize this type of investor as a Holder of notes and instead deal only
with the depositary that holds the global note.
 
     If notes are issued only in the form of a global note, an investor should
be aware of the following:
 
- - An investor cannot cause the notes to be registered in his or her own name,
  and cannot obtain non-global certificates for his or her interest in the
  notes, except in the special situations we describe below;
 
- - An investor will be an indirect holder and must look to his or her own bank or
  broker for payments on the notes and protection of his or her legal rights
  relating to the notes, as we describe under "-- Legal Ownership of Notes"
  above;
 
- - An investor may not be able to sell interests in the notes to some insurance
  companies and other institutions that are required by law to own their
  securities in non-book-entry form;
 
- - An investor may not be able to pledge his or her interest in a global note in
  circumstances where certificates representing the notes must be delivered to
  the lender or other beneficiary of the pledge in order for the pledge to be
  effective.
 
- - The depositary's policies, which may change from time to time, will govern
  payments, transfers, exchanges and other matters relating to an investor's
  interest in a global note. We and the trustee have no responsibility for any
  aspect of the depositary's actions or for its records of ownership interests
  in a global note. We and the trustee also do not supervise the depositary in
  any way;
 
- - The depositary will require that those who purchase and sell interests in a
  global note within its book-entry system use immediately available funds and
  your broker or bank may require you to do so as well; and
 
                                       118
<PAGE>   145
 
- - Financial institutions that participate in the depositary's book-entry system,
  and through which an investor holds its interest in the global notes, may also
  have their own policies affecting payments, notices and other matters relating
  to the notes. There may be more than one financial intermediary in the chain
  of ownership for an investor. We do not monitor and are not responsible for
  the actions of any of those intermediaries.
 
SPECIAL SITUATIONS WHEN A GLOBAL NOTE WILL BE TERMINATED
 
     In a few special situations described below, a global note will be
terminated and interests in it will be exchanged for certificates in non-global
form representing the notes it represented. After that exchange, the choice of
whether to hold the notes directly or in street name will be up to the investor.
Investors must consult their own banks or brokers to find out how to have their
interests in a global note transferred on termination to their own names, so
that they will be Holders. We have described the rights of Holders and street
name investors above under "-- Legal Ownership of Notes".
 
     The special situations for termination of a global note are as follows:
 
- - if the depositary notifies us that it is unwilling, unable or no longer
  qualified to continue as depositary for that global note and we do not appoint
  another institution to act as depositary within 60 days;
 
- - if we notify the trustee that we wish to terminate that global note; or
 
- - if an event of default has occurred with regard to notes represented by that
  global note and has not been cured or waived; we discuss defaults later under
  "-- Default, Remedies and Waiver of Default".
 
If a global note is terminated, only the depositary, and not we or the trustee,
is responsible for deciding the names of the institutions in whose names the
notes represented by the global note will be registered and, therefore, who will
be the Holders of those notes.
 
                                 INTEREST RATES
 
     This subsection describes the different kinds of interest rates that may
apply to your note, if it bears interest.
 
FIXED RATE NOTES
 
     Each fixed rate note, except any zero coupon note, will bear interest from
its original issue date or from the most recent date to which interest on the
note has been paid or made available for payment. Interest will accrue on the
principal of a fixed rate note at the fixed yearly rate stated in the applicable
prospectus supplement, until the principal is paid or made available for
payment. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable prospectus supplement,
interest on a fixed rate note will be payable semiannually each May 15 and
November 15, which will be the interest payment dates for a fixed rate note, and
at maturity. Each payment of interest due on an interest payment date or the
date of maturity will include interest accrued from and including the last date
to which interest has been paid, or made available for payment, or from the
issue date if none has been paid, or made available for payment, to but
excluding the interest payment date or the date of maturity. We will compute
interest on fixed rate notes on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day
months. We will pay interest on each interest payment date and at maturity as
described below under "-- Payment Mechanics".
 
FLOATING RATE NOTES
 
 In this subsection, we use several specialized terms relating to the manner in
 which floating interest rates are calculated. These terms appear in BOLD,
 ITALICIZED type the first time they appear, and we define these terms in "--
 Special Rate Calculation Terms" at the end of this subsection.
 
 Also, please remember that the specific terms of your note as described in your
 prospectus supplement will supplement and, if applicable, may modify or replace
 the general terms regarding the floating rates of interest described in this
 subsection. The statements we make in this subsection may not apply to your
 note.
 
                                       119
<PAGE>   146
 
     Each floating rate note will bear interest from its original issue date or
from the most recent date to which interest on the note has been paid or made
available for payment. Interest will accrue on the principal of a floating rate
note at the yearly rate determined pursuant to the interest rate formula stated
in the applicable prospectus supplement, until the principal is paid or made
available for payment. We will pay interest on each interest payment date and at
maturity as described below under "-- Payment Mechanics".
 
     BASE RATES.  We currently expect to issue floating rate notes that bear
interest at rates based on one or more of the following base rates:
 
- - commercial paper rate;
 
- - prime rate;
 
- - LIBOR;
 
- - EURIBOR;
 
- - treasury rate;
 
- - CMT rate;
 
- - CD rate;
 
- - federal funds rate; and/or
 
- - 11th district rate.
 
We describe each of these base rates in further detail below in this subsection.
If you purchase a floating rate note, your prospectus supplement will specify
the type of base rate that applies to your note.
 
     INITIAL BASE RATE.  For any floating rate note, the base rate in effect
from the original issue date to the first interest reset date will be the
initial base rate. We will specify the initial base rate in the applicable
prospectus supplement.
 
     SPREAD OR SPREAD MULTIPLIER.  In some cases, the base rate for a floating
rate note may be adjusted:
 
- - by adding or subtracting a specified number of basis points, called the
  spread, with one basis point being 0.01%; or
 
- - by multiplying the base rate by a specified percentage, called the spread
  multiplier.
 
If you purchase a floating rate note, your prospectus supplement will specify
whether a spread or spread multiplier will apply to your note and, if so, the
amount of the spread or spread multiplier.
 
     MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM RATES.  The actual interest rate, after being adjusted
by the spread or spread multiplier, may also be subject to either or both of the
following limits:
 
- - a maximum rate -- i.e., a specified upper limit that the actual interest rate
  in effect at any time may not exceed; and/or
 
- - a minimum rate -- i.e., a specified lower limit that the actual interest rate
  in effect at any time may not fall below.
 
If you purchase a floating rate note, your prospectus supplement will specify
whether a maximum rate and/or minimum rate will apply to your note and, if so,
what those rates are.
 
     Whether or not a maximum rate applies, the interest rate on a floating rate
note will in no event be higher than the maximum rate permitted by New York law,
as it may be modified by U.S. law of general application. Under current New York
law, the maximum rate of interest, with some exceptions, for any loan in an
amount less than $250,000 is 16% and for any loan in the amount of $250,000 or
more but less than $2,500,000 is 25% per year on a simple interest basis. These
limits do not apply to loans of $2,500,000 or more.
 
     The rest of this subsection describes how the interest rate and the
interest payment dates will be determined, and how interest will be calculated,
on a floating rate note.
 
     INTEREST RESET DATES.  The rate of interest on a floating rate note will be
reset, by the calculation agent described below, daily, weekly, monthly,
quarterly, semi-annually or annually. The date on which the interest rate resets
and the reset rate becomes effective is called the interest reset date. Except
as otherwise specified in the applicable prospectus supplement, the interest
reset date will be as follows:
 
- - for floating rate notes that reset daily, each BUSINESS DAY;
                                       120
<PAGE>   147
 
- - for floating rate notes that reset weekly and are not treasury rate notes, the
  Wednesday of each week;
 
- - for treasury rate notes that reset weekly, the Tuesday of each week, except as
  otherwise described in the next to last paragraph under "-- Interest
  Determination Dates" below;
 
- - for floating rate notes that reset monthly, the third Wednesday of each month;
 
- - for floating rate notes that reset quarterly, the third Wednesday of March,
  June, September and December of each year;
 
- - for floating rate notes that reset semi-annually, the third Wednesday of each
  of two months of each year as specified in the applicable prospectus
  supplement; and
 
- - for floating rate notes that reset annually, the third Wednesday of one month
  of each year as specified in the applicable prospectus supplement.
 
For a floating rate note, the interest rate in effect on any particular day will
be the interest rate determined with respect to the latest interest reset date
that occurs on or before that day. There are several exceptions, however, to the
reset provisions described above.
 
     The base rate in effect from the original issue date to the first interest
reset date will be the initial base rate. For floating rate notes that reset
daily or weekly, the base rate in effect for each day following the second
business day prior to an interest payment date to, but excluding, the interest
payment date, and for each day following the second business day prior to the
maturity to, but excluding, the maturity, will be the base rate in effect on
that second business day.
 
     If any interest reset date for a floating rate note would otherwise be a
day that is not a business day, the interest reset date will be postponed to the
next day that is a business day. For a LIBOR note, however, if that business day
is in the next succeeding calendar month, the interest reset date will be the
immediately preceding business day.
 
     INTEREST DETERMINATION DATES.  The interest rate that takes effect on an
interest reset date will be determined by the calculation agent by reference to
a particular date called an interest determination date. Except as otherwise
specified in the applicable prospectus supplement:
 
- - For all floating rate notes other than LIBOR notes, EURIBOR notes, treasury
  rate notes and 11th district rate notes, the interest determination date
  relating to a particular interest reset date will be the second business day
  before the interest reset date.
 
- - For LIBOR notes, the interest determination date relating to a particular
  interest reset date will be the second LONDON BUSINESS DAY preceding the
  interest reset date, unless the INDEX CURRENCY is pounds sterling, in which
  case the interest determination date will be the interest reset date. We refer
  to an interest determination date for a LIBOR note as a LIBOR interest
  determination date.
 
- - For EURIBOR notes, the interest determination date relating to a particular
  interest reset date will be the second EURO BUSINESS DAY preceding the
  interest reset date. We refer to an interest determination date for a EURIBOR
  note as a EURIBOR interest determination date.
 
- - For treasury rate notes, the interest determination date relating to a
  particular interest reset date, which we refer to as a treasury interest
  determination date, will be the day of the week in which the interest reset
  date falls on which treasury bills -- i.e., direct obligations of the U.S.
  government -- would normally be auctioned. Treasury bills are usually sold at
  auction on the Monday of each week, unless that day is a legal holiday, in
  which case the auction is usually held on the following Tuesday, except that
  the auction may be held on the preceding Friday. If as the result of a legal
  holiday an auction is held on the preceding Friday, that Friday will be the
  treasury interest determination date relating to the interest reset date
  occurring in the next succeeding week. If the auction is held on a day that
  would otherwise be an interest reset date, then the interest reset date will
  instead be the first business day following the auction date.
 
                                       121
<PAGE>   148
 
- - For 11th district rate notes, the interest determination date relating to a
  particular interest reset date will be the last working day, in the first
  calendar month before that interest reset date, on which the Federal Home Loan
  Bank of San Francisco publishes the monthly average cost of funds paid by
  member institutions of the Eleventh Federal Home Loan Bank District for the
  second calendar month before that interest reset date. We refer to an interest
  determination date for an 11th district rate note as an 11th district interest
  determination date.
 
     INTEREST CALCULATION DATES.  As described above, the interest rate that
takes effect on a particular interest reset date will be determined by reference
to the corresponding interest determination date. Except for LIBOR notes and
EURIBOR notes, however, the determination of the rate will actually be made on a
day no later than the corresponding interest calculation date. The interest
calculation date will be the earlier of the following:
 
- - the tenth calendar day after the interest determination date or, if that tenth
  calendar day is not a business day, the next succeeding business day; and
 
- - the business day immediately preceding the interest payment date or the
  maturity, whichever is the day on which the next payment of interest will be
  due.
 
The calculation agent need not wait until the relevant interest calculation date
to determine the interest rate if the rate information it needs to make the
determination is available from the relevant sources sooner.
 
     INTEREST PAYMENT DATES.  The interest payment dates for a floating rate
note will depend on when the interest rate is reset and, unless we specify
otherwise in the applicable prospectus supplement, will be as follows:
 
- - for floating rate notes that reset daily, weekly or monthly, the third
  Wednesday of each month or the third Wednesday of March, June, September and
  December of each year, as specified in the applicable prospectus supplement;
 
- - for floating rate notes that reset quarterly, the third Wednesday of March,
  June, September and December of each year;
 
- - for floating rate notes that reset semi-annually, the third Wednesday of the
  two months of each year specified in the applicable prospectus supplement; or
 
- - for floating rate notes that reset annually, the third Wednesday of the month
  specified in the applicable prospectus supplement.
 
Regardless of these rules, if a note is originally issued after the regular
record date and before the date that would otherwise be the first interest
payment date, the first interest payment date will be the date that would
otherwise be the second interest payment date. We have defined the term "regular
record date" below under "-- Payment Mechanics -- Who Receives Payment?".
 
     In addition, the following special provision will apply to a floating rate
note with regard to any interest payment date other than one that falls on the
maturity. If the interest payment date would otherwise fall on a day that is not
a business day, then the interest payment date will be the next day that is a
business day. However, if the floating rate note is a LIBOR note or a EURIBOR
note and the next business day falls in the next calendar month, then the
interest payment date will be advanced to the next preceding day that is a
business day. In all cases, an interest payment date that falls on the maturity
will not be changed.
    
     CALCULATION OF INTEREST.  Calculations relating to floating rate notes will
be made by the calculation agent, an institution that we appoint as our agent
for this purpose. That institution may include any affiliate of ours, such
as Goldman, Sachs & Co. The prospectus supplement for a particular floating rate
note will name the institution that we have appointed to act as calculation
agent for that note as of its original issue date. We may appoint a different
institution to serve as calculation agent from time to time after the original
issue date of the note without your consent and without notifying you of the
change.
     
                                       122
<PAGE>   149
 
     For each floating rate note, the calculation agent will determine, on the
corresponding interest calculation or determination date, as applicable, the
interest rate that takes effect on each interest reset date. In addition, the
calculation agent will calculate the amount of interest that has accrued during
each interest period -- i.e., the period from and including the original issue
date, or the last date to which interest has been paid or made available for
payment, to but excluding the payment date. For each interest period, the
calculation agent will calculate the amount of accrued interest by multiplying
the face amount of the floating rate note by an accrued interest factor for the
interest period. This factor will equal the sum of the interest factors
calculated for each day during the interest period. The interest factor for each
day will be expressed as a decimal and will be calculated by dividing the
interest rate (also expressed as a decimal) applicable to that day:
 
- - by 360, in the case of commercial paper rate notes, prime rate notes, LIBOR
  notes, EURIBOR notes, CD rate notes, federal funds rate notes and 11th
  district rate notes; or
 
- - by the actual number of days in the year, in the case of treasury rate notes
  and CMT rate notes.
 
     Upon the request of the Holder of any floating rate note, the calculation
agent will provide for that note the interest rate then in effect -- and, if
determined, the interest rate that will become effective on the next interest
reset date. The calculation agent's determination of any interest rate, and its
calculation of the amount of interest for any interest period, will be final and
binding in the absence of manifest error.
 
     All percentages resulting from any calculation relating to a note will be
rounded upward or downward, as appropriate, to the next higher or lower one
hundred-thousandth of a percentage point (e.g., 9.876541% (or .09876541) being
rounded down to 9.87654% (or .0987654) and 9.876545% (or .09876545) being
rounded up to 9.87655% (or .0987655)). All amounts used in or resulting from any
calculation relating to a floating rate note will be rounded upward or downward,
as appropriate, to the nearest cent, in the case of U.S. dollars, or to the
nearest corresponding hundredth of a unit, in the case of a currency other than
U.S. dollars, with one-half cent or one-half of a corresponding hundredth of a
unit or more being rounded upward.
 
   
     In determining the base rate that applies to a floating rate note during a
particular interest period, the calculation agent may obtain rate quotes from
various banks or dealers active in the relevant market, as described in the
following subsections. Those reference banks and dealers may include the
calculation agent itself and its affiliates, as well as any agent and its
affiliates, and they may include affiliates of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
     
COMMERCIAL PAPER RATE NOTES
 
     If you purchase a commercial paper rate note, your note will bear interest
at a base rate equal to the commercial paper rate and adjusted by the spread or
spread multiplier, if any, specified in your prospectus supplement.
 
     The commercial paper rate will be the MONEY MARKET YIELD of the rate, for
the relevant interest determination date, for commercial paper having the INDEX
MATURITY specified in your prospectus supplement, as published in H.15(519)
under the heading "Commercial Paper -- Nonfinancial". If the commercial paper
rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will
apply.
 
- - If the rate described above does not appear in H.15(519) at 3:00 P.M., New
  York City time, on the relevant interest calculation date (unless the
  calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from that source at that
  time), then the commercial paper rate will be the rate, for the relevant
  interest determination date, for commercial paper having the index maturity
  specified in your prospectus supplement, as published in H.15 DAILY UPDATE or
  any other recognized electronic source used for displaying that rate, under
  the heading "Commercial Paper -- Nonfinancial".
                                       123
<PAGE>   150
 
- - If the rate described above does not appear in H.15(519), H.15 daily update or
  another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the
  relevant interest calculation date (unless the calculation is made earlier and
  the rate is available from one of those sources at that time), the commercial
  paper rate will be the money market yield of the arithmetic mean of the
  following offered rates for U.S. dollar commercial paper that has the relevant
  index maturity and is placed for an industrial issuer whose bond rating is
  "AA", or the equivalent, from a nationally recognized rating agency: the rates
  offered as of 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the relevant interest
  determination date, by three leading U.S. dollar commercial paper dealers in
  New York City selected by the calculation agent.
 
- - If fewer than three dealers selected by the calculation agent are quoting as
  described above, the commercial paper rate for the new interest period will be
  the commercial paper rate in effect for the prior interest period. If the
  initial base rate has been in effect for the prior interest period, however,
  it will remain in effect for the new interest period.
 
PRIME RATE NOTES
 
     If you purchase a prime rate note, your note will bear interest at a base
rate equal to the prime rate and adjusted by the spread or spread multiplier, if
any, specified in your prospectus supplement.
 
     The prime rate will be the rate, for the relevant interest determination
date, published in H.15(519) under the heading "Bank Prime Loan". If the prime
rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will
apply.
 
- - If the rate described above does not appear in H.15(519) at 3:00 P.M., New
  York City time, on the relevant interest calculation date (unless the
  calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from that source at that
  time), then the prime rate will be the rate, for the relevant interest
  determination date, as published in H.15 daily update or another recognized
  electronic source used for the purpose of displaying that rate, under the
  heading "Bank Prime Loan".
 
- - If the rate described above does not appear in H.15(519), H.15 daily update or
  another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the
  relevant interest calculation date (unless the calculation is made earlier and
  the rate is available from one of those sources at that time), then the prime
  rate will be the arithmetic mean of the following rates as they appear on the
  REUTERS SCREEN US PRIME 1 PAGE: the rate of interest publicly announced by
  each bank appearing on that page as that bank's prime rate or base lending
  rate, as of 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the relevant interest
  determination date.
 
- - If fewer than four of these rates appear on the Reuters screen US PRIME 1
  page, the prime rate will be the arithmetic mean of the prime rates or base
  lending rates, as of the close of business on the relevant interest
  determination date, of three major banks in New York City selected by the
  calculation agent. For this purpose, the calculation agent will use rates
  quoted on the basis of the actual number of days in the year divided by a
  360-day year.
 
- - If fewer than three banks selected by the calculation agent are quoting as
  described above, the prime rate for the new interest period will be the prime
  rate in effect for the prior interest period. If the initial base rate has
  been in effect for the prior interest period, however, it will remain in
  effect for the new interest period.
 
LIBOR NOTES
 
     If you purchase a LIBOR note, your note will bear interest at a base rate
equal to LIBOR, which will be the London interbank offered rate for deposits in
U.S. dollars or any other index currency, as specified in your prospectus
supplement. In addition, the applicable LIBOR base rate will be adjusted by the
spread or spread multiplier, if any, specified
 
                                       124
<PAGE>   151
 
in your prospectus supplement. LIBOR will be determined in the following manner:
 
- - LIBOR will be either:
 
     -- the offered rate appearing on the TELERATE LIBOR PAGE; or
 
     -- the arithmetic mean of the offered rates appearing on the REUTERS SCREEN
        LIBOR PAGE unless that page by its terms cites only one rate, in which
        case that rate;
 
in either case, as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the relevant LIBOR interest
determination date, for deposits of the relevant index currency having the
relevant index maturity beginning on the relevant interest reset date. Your
prospectus supplement will indicate the index currency, the index maturity and
the reference page that apply to your LIBOR note. If no reference page is
specified in your prospectus supplement, Telerate LIBOR page will apply to your
LIBOR note.
 
- - If Telerate LIBOR page applies and the rate described above does not appear on
  that page, or if Reuters screen LIBOR page applies and fewer than two of the
  rates described above appears on that page or no rate appears on any page on
  which only one rate normally appears, then LIBOR will be determined on the
  basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on the relevant
  LIBOR interest determination date, at which deposits of the following kind are
  offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in
  that market selected by the calculation agent: deposits of the index currency
  having the relevant index maturity, beginning on the relevant interest reset
  date, and in a REPRESENTATIVE AMOUNT. The calculation agent will request the
  principal London office of each of these banks to provide a quotation of its
  rate. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR for the relevant LIBOR
  interest determination date will be the arithmetic mean of the quotations.
 
- - If fewer than two quotations are provided as described above, LIBOR for the
  relevant LIBOR interest determination date will be the arithmetic mean of the
  rates for loans of the following kind to leading European banks quoted, at
  approximately 11:00 A.M., in the principal financial center for the country of
  the index currency, on that LIBOR interest determination date, by three major
  banks in that financial center selected by the calculation agent: loans of the
  index currency having the relevant index maturity, beginning on the relevant
  interest reset date, and in a representative amount.
 
- - If fewer than three banks selected by the calculation agent are quoting as
  described above, LIBOR for the new interest period will be LIBOR in effect for
  the prior interest period. If the initial base rate has been in effect for the
  prior interest period, however, it will remain in effect for the new interest
  period.
 
EURIBOR NOTES
 
     If you purchase a EURIBOR note, your note will bear interest at a base rate
equal to the interest rate for deposits in euros designated as "EURIBOR" and
sponsored jointly by the European Banking Federation and ACI -- the Financial
Market Association (or any company established by the joint sponsors for
purposes of compiling and publishing that rate). In addition, the EURIBOR base
rate will be adjusted by the spread or spread multiplier, if any, specified in
your prospectus supplement. EURIBOR will be determined in the following manner:
 
- - EURIBOR will be the offered rate for deposits in euros having the index
  maturity specified in your prospectus supplement, beginning on the second euro
  business day after the relevant EURIBOR interest determination date, as that
  rate appears on TELERATE PAGE 248 as of 11:00 A.M., Brussels time, on the
  relevant EURIBOR interest determination date.
 
- - If the rate described above does not appear on Telerate page 248, EURIBOR will
  be determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., Brussels
  time, on the relevant EURIBOR interest determination date, at which deposits
  of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the EURO-ZONE interbank
  market by the principal euro-zone office of each of four major banks in that
  market selected by the calcu-
                                       125
<PAGE>   152
 
lation agent: euro deposits having the relevant index maturity, beginning on the
relevant interest reset date, and in a representative amount. The calculation
agent will request the principal euro-zone office of each of these banks to
  provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two quotations are provided,
  EURIBOR for the relevant EURIBOR interest determination date will be the
  arithmetic mean of the quotations.
 
- - If fewer than two quotations are provided as described above, EURIBOR for the
  relevant EURIBOR interest determination date will be the arithmetic mean of
  the rates for loans of the following kind to leading euro-zone banks quoted,
  at approximately 11:00 A.M., Brussels time on that EURIBOR interest
  determination date, by three major banks in the euro-zone selected by the
  calculation agent: loans of euros having the relevant index maturity,
  beginning on the relevant interest reset date, and in a representative amount.
 
- - If fewer than three banks selected by the calculation agent are quoting as
  described above, EURIBOR for the new interest period will be EURIBOR in effect
  for the prior interest period. If the initial base rate has been in effect for
  the prior interest period, however, it will remain in effect for the new
  interest period.
 
TREASURY RATE NOTES
 
     If you purchase a treasury rate note, your note will bear interest at a
base rate equal to the treasury rate and adjusted by the spread or spread
multiplier, if any, specified in your prospectus supplement.
 
     The treasury rate will be the rate for the auction, on the relevant
treasury interest determination date, of treasury bills having the index
maturity specified in your prospectus supplement, as that rate appears on
Telerate page 56 or 57 under the heading "Investment Rate". If the treasury rate
cannot be determined in this manner, the following procedures will apply.
 
- - If the rate described above does not appear on either page at 3:00 P.M., New
  York City time, on the relevant interest calculation date (unless the
  calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from that source at that
  time), the treasury rate will be the BOND EQUIVALENT YIELD of the rate, for
  the relevant interest determination date, for the type of treasury bill
  described above, as published in H.15 daily update, or another recognized
  electronic source used for displaying that rate, under the heading "U.S.
  Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Auction High".
 
- - If the rate described in the prior paragraph does not appear in H.15 daily
  update or another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City
  time, on the relevant interest calculation date (unless the calculation is
  made earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that
  time), the treasury rate will be the bond equivalent yield of the auction
  rate, for the relevant treasury interest determination date and for treasury
  bills of the kind described above, as announced by the U.S. Department of the
  Treasury.
 
- - If the auction rate described in the prior paragraph is not so announced by
  3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the relevant interest calculation date, or
  if no such auction is held for the relevant week, then the treasury rate will
  be the bond equivalent yield of the rate, for the relevant treasury interest
  determination date and for treasury bills having a remaining maturity closest
  to the specified index maturity, as published in H.15(519) under the heading
  "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market".
 
- - If the rate described in the prior paragraph does not appear in H.15(519) at
  3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the relevant interest calculation date
  (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of
  those sources at that time), then the treasury rate will be the rate, for the
  relevant treasury interest determination date and for treasury bills having a
  remaining maturity closest to the specified index maturity, as published in
  H.15 daily update, or another recognized electronic source used for displaying
  that rate, under the
 
                                       126
<PAGE>   153
 
  heading "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market".
 
- - If the rate described in the prior paragraph does not appear in H.15 daily
  update or another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City
  time, on the relevant interest calculation date (unless the calculation is
  made earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that
  time), the treasury rate will be the bond equivalent yield of the arithmetic
  mean of the following secondary market bid rates for the issue of treasury
  bills with a remaining maturity closest to the specified index maturity: the
  rates bid as of approximately 3:30 P.M., New York City time, on the relevant
  treasury interest determination date, by three primary U.S. government
  securities dealers in New York City selected by the calculation agent.
 
- - If fewer than three dealers selected by the calculation agent are quoting as
  described in the prior paragraph, the treasury rate in effect for the new
  interest period will be the treasury rate in effect for the prior interest
  period. If the initial base rate has been in effect for the prior interest
  period, however, it will remain in effect for the new interest period.
 
CMT RATE NOTES
 
     If you purchase a CMT rate note, your note will bear interest at a base
rate equal to the CMT rate and adjusted by the spread or spread multiplier, if
any, specified in your prospectus supplement.
 
     The CMT rate will be the following rate displayed on the DESIGNATED CMT
TELERATE PAGE under the heading " . . . Treasury Constant
Maturities . . . Federal Reserve Board Release H.15 . . . Mondays Approximately
3:45 P.M.", under the column for the DESIGNATED CMT INDEX MATURITY:
 
- - if the designated CMT Telerate page is Telerate page 7051, the rate for the
  relevant interest determination date; or
 
- - if the designated CMT Telerate page is Telerate page 7052, the weekly or
  monthly average, as specified in your prospectus supplement, for the week that
  ends immediately before the week in which the relevant interest determination
  date falls, or for the month that ends immediately before the month in which
  the relevant interest determination date falls, as applicable.
 
If the CMT rate cannot be determined in this manner, the following procedures
will apply.
 
- - If the applicable rate described above is not displayed on the relevant
  designated CMT Telerate page at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the relevant
  interest calculation date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate
  is available from that source at that time), then the CMT rate will be the
  applicable treasury constant maturity rate described above -- i.e., for the
  designated CMT index maturity and for either the relevant interest
  determination date or the weekly or monthly average, as applicable -- as
  published in H.15(519).
 
- - If the applicable rate described above does not appear in H.15(519) at 3:00
  P.M., New York City time, on the relevant interest calculation date (unless
  the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of those
  sources at that time), then the CMT rate will be the treasury constant
  maturity rate, or other U.S. treasury rate, for the designated CMT index
  maturity and with reference to the relevant interest determination date, that:
 
     -- is published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or
        the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and
 
     -- is determined by the calculation agent to be comparable to the
        applicable rate formerly displayed on the designated CMT Telerate page
        and published in H.15(519).
 
- - If the rate described in the prior paragraph does not appear at 3:00 P.M., New
  York City time, on the relevant interest calculation date (unless the
  calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of those
  sources at that time), then the CMT rate will be the yield to maturity of the
  arithmetic mean of the following secondary market offered rates for the most
  recently issued treasury notes having an original
                                       127
<PAGE>   154
 
  maturity of approximately the designated CMT index maturity and a remaining
  term to maturity of not less than the designated CMT index maturity minus one
  year, and in a representative amount, the offered rates, as of approximately
  3:30 P.M., New York City time, on the relevant interest determination date, of
  three primary U.S. government securities dealers in New York City selected by
  the calculation agent. In selecting these offered rates, the calculation agent
  will request quotations from five of these primary dealers and will disregard
  the highest quotation -- or, if there is equality, one of the highest -- and
  the lowest quotation -- or, if there is equality, one of the lowest. Treasury
  notes are direct, non-callable, fixed rate obligations of the U.S. government.
 
- - If the calculation agent is unable to obtain three quotations of the kind
  described in the prior paragraph, the CMT rate will be the yield to maturity
  of the arithmetic mean of the following secondary market offered rates for
  treasury notes with an original maturity longer than the designated CMT index
  maturity, with a remaining term to maturity closest to the designated CMT
  index maturity and in a representative amount: the offered rates, as of
  approximately 3:30 P.M., New York City time, on the relevant interest
  determination date, of three primary U.S. government securities dealers in New
  York City selected by the calculation agent. In selecting these offered rates,
  the calculation agent will request quotations from five of these primary
  dealers and will disregard the highest quotation -- or, if there is equality,
  one of the highest -- and the lowest quotation -- or, if there is equality,
  one of the lowest. If two treasury notes with an original maturity longer than
  the designated CMT index maturity have remaining terms to maturity that are
  equally close to the designated CMT index maturity, the calculation agent will
  obtain quotations for the treasury note with the shorter remaining term to
  maturity.
 
- - If fewer than five but more than two of these primary dealers are quoting as
  described in the prior paragraph, then the CMT rate for the relevant interest
  determination date will be based on the arithmetic mean of the offered rates
  so obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of those quotations will
  be disregarded.
 
- - If two or fewer primary dealers selected by the calculation agent are quoting
  as described above, the CMT rate in effect for the new interest period will be
  the CMT rate in effect for the prior interest period. If the initial base rate
  has been in effect for the prior interest period, however, it will remain in
  effect for the new interest period.
 
CD RATE NOTES
 
     If you purchase a CD rate note, your note will bear interest at a base rate
equal to the CD rate and adjusted by the spread or spread multiplier, if any,
specified in your prospectus supplement.
 
     The CD rate will be the rate, on the relevant interest determination date,
for negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit having the index maturity
specified in your prospectus supplement, as published in H.15(519) under the
heading "CDs (Secondary Market)". If the CD rate cannot be determined in this
manner, the following procedures will apply.
 
- - If the rate described above does not appear in H.15(519) at 3:00 P.M., New
  York City time, on the relevant interest calculation date (unless the
  calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from that source at that
  time), then the CD rate will be the rate, for the relevant interest
  determination date, described above as published in H.15 daily update, or
  another recognized electronic source used for displaying that rate, under the
  heading "CDs (Secondary Market)".
 
- - If the rate described above does not appear in H.15(519), H.15 daily update or
  another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the
  relevant interest calculation date (unless the calculation is made earlier and
  the rate is available from one of those sources at that time), the CD rate
  will be the arithmetic mean of the following secondary market offered rates
  for negotiable U.S. dollar
                                       128
<PAGE>   155
 
  certificates of deposit of major U.S. money center banks with a remaining
  maturity closest to the specified index maturity, and in a representative
  amount: the rates offered as of 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on the
  relevant interest determination date, by three leading nonbank dealers in
  negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit in New York City, as selected
  by the calculation agent.
 
- - If fewer than three dealers selected by the calculation agent are quoting as
  described above, the CD rate in effect for the new interest period will be the
  CD rate in effect for the prior interest period. If the initial base rate has
  been in effect for the prior interest period, however, it will remain in
  effect for the new interest period.
 
FEDERAL FUNDS RATE NOTES
 
     If you purchase a federal funds rate note, your note will bear interest at
a base rate equal to the federal funds rate and adjusted by the spread or spread
multiplier, if any, specified in your prospectus supplement.
 
     The federal funds rate will be the rate for U.S. dollar federal funds on
the relevant interest determination date, as published in H.15 (519) under the
heading "Federal Funds (Effective)", as that rate is displayed on Telerate page
120. If the federal funds rate cannot be determined in this manner, the
following procedures will apply.
 
- - If the rate described above is not displayed on Telerate page 120 at 3:00
  P.M., New York City time, on the relevant interest calculation date (unless
  the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from that source at
  that time), then the federal funds rate, for the relevant interest
  determination date, will be the rate described above as published in H.15
  daily update, or another recognized electronic source used for displaying that
  rate, under the heading "Federal Funds (Effective)".
 
- - If the rate described above is not displayed on Telerate page 120 and does not
  appear in H.15(519), H.15 daily update or another recognized electronic source
  at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the relevant interest calculation date
  (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of
  those sources at that time), the federal funds rate will be the arithmetic
  mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight, U.S. dollar federal
  funds arranged, before 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on the relevant interest
  determination date, by three leading brokers of U.S. dollar federal funds
  transactions in New York City selected by the calculation agent.
 
- - If fewer than three brokers selected by the calculation agent are quoting as
  described above, the federal funds rate in effect for the new interest period
  will be the federal funds rate in effect for the prior interest period. If the
  initial base rate has been in effect for the prior interest period, however,
  it will remain in effect for the new interest period.
 
11TH DISTRICT RATE NOTES
 
     If you purchase an 11th district rate note, your note will bear interest at
a base rate equal to the 11th district rate and adjusted by the spread or spread
multiplier, if any, specified in your prospectus supplement.
 
     The 11th district rate will be the rate equal to the monthly weighted
average cost of funds for the calendar month immediately before the relevant
11th district interest determination date, as displayed on Telerate page 7058
under the heading "11th District" as of 11:00 A.M., San Francisco time, on that
date. If the 11th district rate cannot be determined in this manner, the
following procedures will apply.
 
- - If the rate described above does not appear on Telerate page 7058 on the
  relevant 11th district interest determination date, then the 11th district
  rate for that date will be the monthly weighted average cost of funds paid by
  institutions that are members of the Eleventh Federal Home Loan Bank District
  for the calendar month immediately before the relevant 11th district interest
  determination date, as most recently announced by the Federal Home Loan Bank
  of San Francisco as that cost of funds.
 
                                       129
<PAGE>   156
 
- - If the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco fails to announce the cost of
  funds described in the prior paragraph on or before the relevant 11th district
  interest determination date, the 11th district rate in effect for the new
  interest period will be the 11th district rate in effect for the prior
  interest period. If the initial base rate has been in effect for the prior
  interest period, however, it will remain in effect for the new interest
  period.
 
SPECIAL RATE CALCULATION TERMS
 
     In this subsection entitled "-- Interest Rates", we use several terms that
have special meanings relevant to calculating floating interest rates. We define
these terms as follows:
 
     The term "BOND EQUIVALENT YIELD" means a yield expressed as a percentage
and calculated in accordance with the following formula:
 
<TABLE>
<S>                    <C>  <C>            <C>  <C>
                                D x N
bond equivalent yield   =   -------------    x  100
                            360 - (D x M)
</TABLE>
 
where
 
- - "D" means the annual rate for treasury bills quoted on a bank discount basis
  and expressed as a decimal;
 
- - "N" means 365 or 366, as the case may be; and
 
- - "M" means the actual number of days in the applicable interest reset period.
 
     The term "BUSINESS DAY" means, for any note, a day that meets all the
following applicable requirements:
 
- - for all notes, is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday that is not
  a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized
  or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close;
 
- - if the note is a LIBOR note, is also a London business day;
 
- - if the note has a specified currency other than U.S. dollars or euros, is also
  a day on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law,
  regulation or executive order to close in the principal financial center of
  the country issuing the specified currency; and
 
- - if the note is a EURIBOR note or has a specified currency of euros, or is a
  LIBOR note for which the index currency is euros, is also a Euro business day.
 
     The term "DESIGNATED CMT INDEX MATURITY" means the index maturity for a CMT
rate note and will be the original period to maturity of a U.S. treasury
security -- either 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, 20 or 30 years -- specified in the
applicable pricing supplement. If no such original maturity period is so
specified, the designated CMT index maturity will be 2 years.
 
     The term "DESIGNATED CMT TELERATE PAGE" means the Telerate page specified
in the applicable prospectus supplement that displays treasury constant
maturities as reported in H.15(519). If no Telerate page is so specified, then
the applicable page will be Telerate page 7052. If Telerate page 7052 applies
but the applicable prospectus supplement does not specify whether the weekly or
monthly average applies, the weekly average will apply.
 
     The term "EURO BUSINESS DAY" means any day on which the Trans-European
Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System, or any
successor system, is open for business.
 
     The term "EURO-ZONE" means, at any time, the region comprised of the member
states of the European Economic and Monetary Union that, as of that time, have
adopted a single currency in accordance with the Treaty on European Union of
February 1992.
 
     "H.15(519)" means the weekly statistical release entitled "Statistical
Release H.15 (519)", or any successor publication, published by the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
 
     "H.15 DAILY UPDATE" means the daily update of H.15(519) available through
the worldwide-web site of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
at http://www.bog.frb.fed.us/releases/h15/update, or any successor site or
publication.
                                       130
<PAGE>   157
 
     The term "INDEX CURRENCY" means, with respect to a LIBOR note, the currency
specified as such in the applicable prospectus supplement. The index currency
may be U.S. dollars or any other currency, and will be U.S. dollars unless
another currency is specified in the applicable prospectus supplement.
 
     The term "INDEX MATURITY" means, with respect to a floating rate note, the
period to maturity of the instrument or obligation on which the interest rate
formula is based, as specified in the applicable prospectus supplement.
 
     "LONDON BUSINESS DAY" means any day on which dealings in the relevant index
currency are transacted in the London interbank market.
 
     The term "MONEY MARKET YIELD" means a yield expressed as a percentage and
calculated in accordance with the following formula:
 
<TABLE>
<S>                 <C>  <C>            <C>  <C>
                            D x 360
money market yield   =   -------------    x  100
                         360 - (D x M)
</TABLE>
 
where
 
- - "D" means the annual rate for commercial paper quoted on a bank discount basis
  and expressed as a decimal; and
 
- - "M" means the actual number of days in the relevant interest reset period.
 
     The term "REPRESENTATIVE AMOUNT" means an amount that, in the calculation
agent's judgment, is representative of a single transaction in the relevant
market at the relevant time.
 
     "REUTERS SCREEN LIBOR PAGE" means the display on the Reuters Monitor Money
Rates Service, or any successor service, on the page designated as "LIBO" or any
replacement page or pages on which London interbank rates of major banks for the
relevant index currency are displayed.
 
     "REUTERS SCREEN US PRIME 1 PAGE" means the display on the "US PRIME 1" page
on the Reuters Monitor Money Rates Service, or any successor service, or any
replacement page or pages on that service, for the purpose of displaying prime
rates or base lending rates of major U.S. banks.
 
     "TELERATE LIBOR PAGE" means Telerate page 3750 or any replacement page or
pages on which London interbank rates of major banks for the relevant index
currency are displayed.
 
     "TELERATE PAGE" means the display on Bridge Telerate, Inc., or any
successor service, on the page or pages specified in this prospectus or the
applicable prospectus supplement, or any replacement page or pages on that
service.
 
     If, when we use the terms designated CMT Telerate page, H.15(519), H.15
daily update, Reuters screen LIBOR page, Reuters screen US PRIME 1 page,
Telerate LIBOR page or Telerate page, we refer to a particular heading or
headings on any of those pages, those references include any successor or
replacement heading or headings as determined by the calculation agent.
 
                            REDEMPTION AND REPAYMENT
 
     Unless otherwise indicated in your prospectus supplement, your note will
not be entitled to the benefit of any sinking fund -- that is, we will not
deposit money on a regular basis into any separate custodial account to repay
your notes. In addition, we will not be entitled to redeem your note before its
stated maturity unless your prospectus supplement specifies a redemption
commencement date. You will not be entitled to require us to buy your note from
you, before its stated maturity, unless your prospectus supplement specifies one
or more repayment dates.
 
     If your prospectus supplement specifies a redemption commencement date or a
repayment date, it will also specify one or more redemption prices or repayment
prices, which will be expressed as a percentage of the principal amount of your
note. It may also specify one or more redemption periods during which the
redemption prices relating to a redemption of notes during those periods will
apply.
 
     If your prospectus supplement specifies a redemption commencement date,
your note will be redeemable at our option at any time on or after that date. If
we redeem your note,
                                       131
<PAGE>   158
 
we will do so at the specified redemption price, together with interest accrued
to the redemption date. If different prices are specified for different
redemption periods, the price we pay will be the price that applies to the
redemption period during which your note is redeemed.
 
     If your prospectus supplement specifies a repayment date, your note will be
repayable at your option on the specified repayment date at the specified
repayment price, together with interest accrued to the repayment date.
 
     In the event that we exercise an option to redeem any note, we will give to
the trustee and the Holder written notice of the principal amount of the note to
be redeemed, not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days before the applicable
redemption date. We will give the notice in the manner described below in
"-- Notices".
 
     If a note represented by a global note is subject to repayment at the
Holder's option, the depositary or its nominee, as the Holder, will be the only
person that can exercise the right to repayment. Any indirect holders who own
beneficial interests in the global note and wish to exercise a repayment right
must give proper and timely instructions to their banks or brokers through which
they hold their interests, requesting that they notify the depositary to
exercise the repayment right on their behalf. Different firms have different
deadlines for accepting instructions from their customers, and you should take
care to act promptly enough to ensure that your request is given effect by the
depositary before the applicable deadline for exercise.

Street name and other indirect holders should contact their banks or brokers
for information about how to exercise a repayment right in a timely manner.
 
     In the event that the option of the Holder to elect repayment as described
above is deemed to be a "tender offer" within the meaning of Rule 14e-1 under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we will comply with Rule 14e-1 as then in
effect to the extent applicable.
 
     We or our affiliates may purchase notes from investors who are willing to
sell from time to time, either in the open market at prevailing prices or in
private transactions at negotiated prices. Notes that we or they purchase may,
at our discretion, be held, resold or cancelled.
 
                        MERGERS AND SIMILAR TRANSACTIONS
 
     We are generally permitted to merge or consolidate with another firm. We
are also permitted to sell substantially all our assets to another firm. We may
not take any of these actions, however, unless all the following conditions are
met:
 
- - If the successor firm in the transaction is not The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.,
  the successor firm must be organized as a corporation, partnership, trust,
  limited liability company or other similar entity and must expressly assume
  The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.'s obligations under the notes and the indenture.
  The successor firm may be organized under the laws of any jurisdiction,
  whether in the United States or elsewhere.
 
- - Immediately after the transaction, no default under the notes has occurred and
  is continuing. For this purpose, "default under the notes" means an event of
  default or any event that would be an event of default if the requirements for
  giving us default notice and for our default having to continue for a specific
  period of time were disregarded. We describe these matters below under
  "-- Default, Remedies and Waiver of Default".
 
     If the conditions described above are satisfied, we will not need to obtain
the approval of the Holders in order to merge or consolidate or to sell all or
substantially all our assets. Also, these conditions will apply only if we wish
to merge or consolidate with another firm or sell all or substantially all our
assets. We will not need to satisfy these conditions if we enter into other
types of transactions, including any transaction in which we acquire the stock
or assets of another firm, any transaction that involves a change of control of
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. but in which we do not merge or
 
                                       132
<PAGE>   159
 
consolidate and any transaction in which we sell less than substantially all our
assets.
 
     Also, if we merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our
assets and the successor firm is a non-U.S. entity, neither we nor any successor
would have any obligation to compensate you for any resulting adverse tax
consequences to the notes.
 
                      RESTRICTIVE COVENANT AND DEFEASANCE
 
RESTRICTION ON LIENS
 
     In the indenture, we promise not to create or guarantee any debt for
borrowed money that is secured by a lien on the voting or profit participating
equity ownership interests that we or any of our subsidiaries own in Goldman,
Sachs & Co. (or in any subsidiary that beneficially owns or holds, directly or
indirectly, those interests in Goldman, Sachs & Co.), unless we also secure the
notes on an equal or priority basis with the other secured debt. Our promise,
however, is subject to an important exception: we may secure debt for borrowed
money with liens on those interests without securing the notes if our board of
directors determines that the liens do not materially detract from or interfere
with the then-present value or control of those interests.
 
     Except as noted above, the indenture does not restrict our ability to put
liens on our interests in our subsidiaries other than Goldman, Sachs & Co., nor
does it restrict our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of our interests in
any of our subsidiaries, including Goldman, Sachs & Co. In addition, the
restriction on liens applies only to liens that secure debt for borrowed money.
For example, liens imposed by operation of law, such as liens to secure
statutory obligations for taxes or workers' compensation benefits, or liens we
create to secure obligations to pay legal judgments or surety bonds, would not
be covered by this restriction.
 
DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE
 
     Unless we say otherwise in the applicable prospectus supplement, the
provisions for full defeasance and covenant defeasance described below apply to
each note as indicated in the applicable prospectus supplement. In general, we
expect these provisions to apply to each note that is not a floating rate or
indexed note and to each note that has a specified currency of U.S. dollars.
 
     FULL DEFEASANCE.  If there is a change in U.S. federal tax law, as
described below, we can legally release ourselves from all payment and other
obligations on your note. This is called full defeasance. To do so, each of the
following must occur:
 
- - We must deposit in trust for the benefit of all Holders a combination of money
  and U.S. government or U.S. government agency notes or bonds that will
  generate enough cash to make interest, principal and any other payments on
  your note on their various due dates;
 
- - There must be a change in current U.S. federal tax law or an Internal Revenue
  Service ruling that lets us make the above deposit without causing you to be
  taxed on your note any differently than if we did not make the deposit and
  just repaid the note ourselves. Under current federal tax law, the deposit and
  our legal release from the note would be treated as though we took back your
  note and gave you your share of the cash and notes or bonds deposited in
  trust. In that event, you could recognize gain or loss on your note; and
 
- - We must deliver to the trustee a legal opinion of our counsel confirming the
  tax law change described above.
 
     If we ever fully defease your note, you will have to rely solely on the
trust deposit for payments on your note. You could not look to us for payment in
the event of any shortfall.
 
     COVENANT DEFEASANCE.  Under current U.S. federal tax law, we can make the
same type of deposit described above and be released from certain restrictive
covenants relating to your note. This is called covenant defeasance. In that
event, you would lose the protection of those restrictive covenants. In
 
                                       133
<PAGE>   160
 
order to achieve covenant defeasance, we must do both of the following:
 
- - We must deposit in trust for the benefit of the Holders a combination of money
  and U.S. government or U.S. government agency notes or bonds that will
  generate enough cash to make interest, principal and any other payments on
  your note on their various due dates.
 
- - We must deliver to the trustee a legal opinion of our counsel confirming that
  under current U.S. federal income tax law we may make the above deposit
  without causing you to be taxed on your note any differently than if we did
  not make the deposit and just repaid the note ourselves.
 
     If we accomplish covenant defeasance with regard to your note, the
following provisions of the indenture and the notes would no longer apply:
 
- - Our promise not to create liens on our voting or profit participating equity
  ownership interests in Goldman, Sachs & Co. described above under
  "-- Restriction on Liens" and any other covenants that your prospectus
  supplement may state are applicable to your note; and
 
- - The events of default resulting from a breach of covenants, described below in
  the fourth item under "-- Default, Remedies and Waiver of Default -- Events of
  Default".
 
     If we accomplish covenant defeasance, you can still look to us for
repayment of your note in the event of any shortfall in the trust deposit. You
should note, however, that if one of the remaining events of default occurred,
such as our bankruptcy, and your note became immediately due and payable, there
may be a shortfall. Depending on the event causing the default, you may not be
able to obtain payment of the shortfall.
 
                    DEFAULT, REMEDIES AND WAIVER OF DEFAULT
 
     You will have special rights if an event of default with respect to your
note occurs and is not cured, as described in this subsection.
 
EVENTS OF DEFAULT
 
     With respect to your note, when we refer to an event of default, we mean
any of the following:
 
- - We do not pay the principal or any premium on any Series B medium-term note on
  its due date;
 
- - We do not pay interest on any Series B medium-term note within 30 days after
  its due date;
 
- - We do not deposit a sinking fund payment with regard to any Series B
  medium-term note on its due date, but only if the payment is required in the
  applicable prospectus supplement;
 
- - We remain in breach of our covenant described under "-- Restrictive Covenant
  and Defeasance -- Restriction on Liens" above, or any other covenant we make
  in the indenture for the benefit of the Series B medium-term notes, for 60
  days after we receive a notice of default stating that we are in breach. The
  notice must be sent by the trustee or the Holders of not less than 10% in
  principal amount of the Series B medium-term notes;
 
- - We file for bankruptcy or other events of bankruptcy, insolvency or
  reorganization relating to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. occur. Those events
  must arise under U.S. federal or state law, unless we merge, consolidate or
  sell our assets as described above and the successor firm is a non-U.S.
  entity. If that happens, then those events must arise under U.S. federal or
  state law or the law of the jurisdiction in which the successor firm is
  legally organized; or
 
- - If your prospectus supplement states that any additional event of default
  applies to your note, that event of default occurs.
 
REMEDIES IF AN EVENT OF DEFAULT OCCURS
 
     If an event of default has occurred and has not been cured or waived, the
trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of all Series B
medium-term notes may declare the entire principal amount of all the notes to be
due immediately. If an event of default occurs because of events in bank-
 
                                       134
<PAGE>   161
 
ruptcy, insolvency or reorganization relating to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.,
the entire principal amount of all the notes will be automatically accelerated,
without any action by the trustee or any Holder.
 
     Each of the situations described above is called an acceleration of the
maturity of the affected notes. If the maturity of any notes is accelerated and
a judgment for payment has not yet been obtained, the Holders of a majority in
principal amount of the notes affected by the acceleration may cancel the
acceleration for all the affected notes.
 
     If an event of default occurs, the trustee will have special duties. In
that situation, the trustee will be obligated to use those of its rights and
powers under the indenture, and to use the same degree of care and skill in
doing so, that a prudent person would use in that situation in conducting his or
her own affairs.
 
     Except as described in the prior paragraph, the trustee is not required to
take any action under the indenture at the request of any Holders unless the
Holders offer the trustee reasonable protection from expenses and liability.
This is called an indemnity. If the trustee is provided with an indemnity
reasonably satisfactory to it, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of
all Series B medium-term notes may direct the time, method and place of
conducting any lawsuit or other formal legal action seeking any remedy available
to the trustee. These majority Holders may also direct the trustee in performing
any other action under the indenture with respect to the Series B medium-term
notes.
 
     Before you bypass the trustee and bring your own lawsuit or other formal
legal action or take other steps to enforce your rights or protect your
interests relating to the notes, the following must occur:
 
- - The Holder of your note must give the trustee written notice that an event of
  default has occurred, and the event of default must not have been cured or
  waived.
 
- - The Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of all Series B medium-
  term notes must make a written request that the trustee take action because of
  the default, and they or other Holders must offer to the trustee indemnity
  reasonably satisfactory to the trustee against the cost and other liabilities
  of taking that action.
 
- - The trustee must not have taken action for 60 days after the above steps have
  been taken.
 
- - During those 60 days, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the
  Series B medium-term notes must not have given the trustee directions that are
  inconsistent with the written request of the Holders of not less than 25% in
  principal amount of all Series B medium-term notes.
 
You are, however, entitled at any time to bring a lawsuit for the payment of
money due on your note on or after its due date.
 
WAIVER OF DEFAULT
 
     The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Series B
medium-term notes may waive a default for all Series B medium-term notes. If
this happens, the default will be treated as if it has not occurred. No one can
waive a payment default on your note, however, without the approval of the
particular Holder of that note.
 
WE WILL GIVE THE TRUSTEE INFORMATION ABOUT DEFAULTS ANNUALLY
 
     We will furnish to the trustee every year a written statement of two of our
officers certifying that to their knowledge we are in compliance with the
indenture and the notes, or else specifying any default.
 
 Book-entry and other indirect holders should consult their banks or brokers
 for information on how to give notice or direction to or make a request of the
 trustee and how to declare or cancel an acceleration of the maturity.
 
                      MODIFICATION AND WAIVER OF COVENANTS
 
     There are three types of changes we can make to the indenture and the
Series B medium-term notes.
                                       135
<PAGE>   162
 
CHANGES REQUIRING EACH HOLDER'S APPROVAL
 
     First, there are changes that cannot be made without the approval of each
Holder of a note affected by the change. Here is a list of those types of
changes:
 
- - change the stated maturity for any principal or interest payment on a note;
 
- - reduce the principal amount, the amount payable on acceleration of the
  maturity after a default, the interest rate or the redemption price for a
  note;
 
- - permit redemption of a note if not previously permitted;
 
- - impair any right a Holder may have to require repayment of its note;
 
- - impair any right that a Holder of an indexed note may have to exchange the
  note for securities or other property;
 
- - change the currency of any payment on a note other than as permitted by the
  note;
 
- - change the place of payment on a note, if it is in non-global form;
 
- - impair a Holder's right to sue for payment of any amount due on its note;
 
- - reduce the percentage in principal amount of the notes and any other affected
  series of debt securities, taken together, the approval of whose Holders is
  needed to change the indenture or the notes;
 
- - reduce the percentage in principal amount of the notes and any other affected
  series of debt securities, taken separately or together, as the case may be,
  the consent of whose Holders is needed to waive our compliance with the
  indenture or to waive defaults; and
 
- - change the provisions of the indenture dealing with modification and waiver in
  any other respect, except to increase any required percentage referred to
  above or to add to the provisions that cannot be changed or waived without
  approval.
 
CHANGES NOT REQUIRING APPROVAL
 
     The second type of change does not require any approval by Holders of the
Series B medium-term notes. This type is limited to clarifications and changes
that would not adversely affect the notes in any material respect. Nor do we
need any approval to make changes that affect only debt securities to be issued
under the indenture after the changes take effect.
 
     We may also make changes or obtain waivers that do not adversely affect a
particular note, even if they affect other notes or other debt securities. In
those cases, we do not need to obtain the approval of the Holder of that note;
we need only obtain any required approvals from the Holders of the affected
notes or other debt securities.
 
CHANGES REQUIRING MAJORITY APPROVAL
 
     Any other change to the indenture and the Series B medium-term notes would
require the following approval:
 
- - If the change affects only the Series B medium-term notes, it must be approved
  by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Series B medium-term
  notes.
 
- - If the change affects the Series B medium-term notes as well as one or more
  other series of debt securities issued under the indenture, it must be
  approved by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Series B
  medium-term notes and all other series affected by the change, with the Series
  B medium-term notes and all the other series voting together as one class for
  this purpose.
 
In each case, the required approval must be given by written consent.
 
     The same majority approval would be required for us to obtain a waiver of
any of our covenants in the indenture. Our covenants include the promises we
make about merging and putting liens on our interests in Goldman, Sachs & Co.,
which we describe above under "-- Mergers and Similar Transactions" and
"-- Restrictive Covenant and Defeasance". If the Holders approve a waiver of a
covenant, we will not have to comply with it. The Holders, however, cannot
approve a waiver of any provision in a particular note, or in the indenture as
it affects that note, that we cannot change without the approval of the
 
                                       136
<PAGE>   163
 
Holder of that note as described above in "-- Changes Requiring Each Holder's
Approval", unless that Holder approves the waiver.
 
 Book-entry and other indirect holders should consult their banks or brokers
 for information on how approval may be granted or denied if we seek to change
 the indenture or the notes or request a waiver.
 
                      SPECIAL RULES FOR ACTION BY HOLDERS
 
     When Holders take any action under the indenture, such as giving a notice
of default, declaring an acceleration, approving any change or waiver or giving
the trustee an instruction, we will apply the following rules. We may apply
similar rules to other series of debt securities issued under the indenture.
 
ONLY OUTSTANDING NOTES ARE ELIGIBLE
 
     Only Holders of outstanding Series B medium-term notes will be eligible to
participate in any action by Holders of those notes. Also, we will count only
outstanding notes in determining whether the various percentage requirements for
taking action have been met. For these purposes, a note will not be
"outstanding":
 
- - if it has been surrendered for cancellation;
 
- - if we have deposited or set aside, in trust for its Holder, money for its
  payment or redemption;
 
- - if we have fully defeased it as described above under "-- Restrictive Covenant
  and Defeasance -- Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance -- Full Defeasance"; or
 
- - if we or one of our affiliates, such as Goldman, Sachs & Co., is the
  beneficial owner.
 
In some situations, Holders of debt securities of other series may be eligible
to participate in an action by Holders of the notes. In that event, we may
follow special rules in calculating the principal amount of their debt
securities that is to be treated as outstanding for the purposes described
above. This may happen, for example, if the principal amount is payable in a
foreign currency, increases over time or is not to be fixed until maturity.
 
DETERMINING RECORD DATES FOR ACTION BY HOLDERS
 
     We will generally be entitled to set any day as a record date for the
purpose of determining the Holders that are entitled to take action under the
indenture. In certain limited circumstances, only the trustee will be entitled
to set a record date for action by Holders. If we or the trustee set a record
date for an approval or other action to be taken by Holders, that vote or action
may be taken only by persons or entities who are Holders on the record date and
must be taken during the period that we specify for this purpose, or that the
trustee specifies if it sets the record date. We or the trustee, as applicable,
may shorten or lengthen this period from time to time. This period, however, may
not extend beyond the 180th day after the record date for the action. In
addition, record dates for any global note may be set in accordance with
procedures established by the depositary from time to time. Accordingly, record
dates for global notes may differ from those for other notes.
 
ELIGIBLE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF SOME NOTES
 
     For any note of the kind described below, we will decide how much principal
amount to attribute to the note as follows:
 
- - For an original issue discount note, we will use the principal amount that
  would be due and payable on the action date if the maturity of the note were
  accelerated to that date because of a default;
 
- - For a note whose principal amount is not known, we will use any amount that we
  indicate in the prospectus supplement for that note. The principal amount of a
  note may not be known, for example, because it is based on an index that
  changes from time to time and the principal amount is not to be determined
  until a later date; or
 
- - For notes with a principal amount denominated in one or more foreign
  currencies or currency units, we will use the U.S. dollar equivalent, which we
  will determine.
 
                                       137
<PAGE>   164
 
                          FORM, EXCHANGE AND TRANSFER
 
     If the notes cease to be issued in global form, they will be issued:
 
- - only in fully registered form;
 
- - without interest coupons; and
 
- - unless we indicate otherwise in your prospectus supplement, in denominations
  of $1,000 and that are multiples of $1,000.
 
     Holders may exchange their notes for notes of smaller denominations or
combined into fewer notes of larger denominations, as long as the total
principal amount is not changed.
 
     Holders may exchange or transfer their notes at the office of the trustee.
We have appointed the trustee to act as our agent for registering notes in the
names of Holders and transferring notes. We may appoint another entity to
perform these functions or perform them ourselves.
 
     Holders will not be required to pay a service charge to transfer or
exchange their notes, but they may be required to pay for any tax or other
governmental charge associated with the exchange or transfer. The transfer or
exchange will be made only if our transfer agent is satisfied with the Holder's
proof of legal ownership.
 
     If we have designated additional transfer agents for your note, they will
be named in your prospectus supplement. We may appoint additional transfer
agents or cancel the appointment of any particular transfer agent. We may also
approve a change in the office through which any transfer agent acts.
 
     If any notes are redeemable and we redeem less than all those notes, we may
block the transfer or exchange of those notes during the period beginning 15
days before the day we mail the notice of redemption and ending on the day of
that mailing, in order to freeze the list of Holders to prepare the mailing. We
may also refuse to register transfers of or exchange any note selected for
redemption, except that we will continue to permit transfers and exchanges of
the unredeemed portion of any note being partially redeemed.
 
     If a note is issued as a global note, only the depositary will be entitled
to transfer and exchange the note as described in this subsection, since it will
be the sole Holder of the note.
 
                               PAYMENT MECHANICS
 
WHO RECEIVES PAYMENT?
 
     If interest is due on a note on an interest payment date, we will pay the
interest to the person or entity in whose name the note is registered at the
close of business on the regular record date (see below) relating to the
interest payment date. If interest is due at maturity but on a day that is not
an interest payment date, we will pay the interest to the person or entity
entitled to receive the principal of the note. If principal or another amount
besides interest is due on a note at maturity, we will pay the amount to the
Holder of the note against surrender of the note at a proper place of payment
(or, in the case of a global note, in accordance with the applicable policies of
the depositary).
 
REGULAR RECORD DATES FOR INTEREST
 
     Unless we specify otherwise in the applicable prospectus supplement, the
regular record date relating to an interest payment date for any fixed rate note
will be the May 1 or November 1 next preceding that interest payment date, and
for any floating rate note will be the 15th calendar day before that interest
payment date, in each case whether or not the record date is a business day. For
the purpose of determining the Holder at the close of business on a regular
record date when business is not being conducted, the close of business will
mean 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on that day.
 
HOW WE WILL MAKE PAYMENTS DUE IN U.S. DOLLARS
 
     We will follow the practice described in this subsection when paying
amounts due in U.S. dollars. Payments of amounts due in other currencies will be
made as described in the next subsection.
 
                                       138
<PAGE>   165
 
     PAYMENTS ON GLOBAL NOTES.  We will make payments on a global note in
accordance with the applicable policies of the depositary as in effect from time
to time. Under those policies, we will pay directly to the depositary, or its
nominee, and not to any indirect holders who own beneficial interests in the
global note. An indirect holder's right to receive those payments will be
governed by the rules and practices of the depositary and its participants, as
described under "-- What Is a Global Note?".
 
     PAYMENTS ON NON-GLOBAL NOTES.  We will make payments on a note in
non-global form as follows. We will pay interest that is due on an interest
payment date by check mailed on the interest payment date to the Holder at his
or her address shown on the trustee's records as of the close of business on the
regular record date. We will make all other payments by check at the paying
agent described below, against surrender of the note. All payments by check will
be made in next-day funds -- i.e., funds that become available on the day after
the check is cashed.
 
     Alternatively, if a non-global note has a face amount of at least
$1,000,000 and the Holder asks us to do so, we will pay any amount that becomes
due on the note by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account at
a bank in New York City, on the due date. To request wire payment, the Holder
must give the paying agent appropriate wire transfer instructions at least five
business days before the requested wire payment is due. In the case of any
interest payment due on an interest payment date, the instructions must be given
by the person or entity who is the Holder on the relevant regular record date.
In the case of any other payment, payment will be made only after the note is
surrendered to the paying agent. Any wire instructions, once properly given,
will remain in effect unless and until new instructions are given in the manner
described above.
 
 Book-entry and other indirect holders should consult their banks or brokers
 for information on how they will receive payments on their notes.
 
HOW WE WILL MAKE PAYMENTS DUE IN OTHER CURRENCIES
 
     We will follow the practice described in this subsection when paying
amounts that are due in a specified currency other than U.S. dollars.
 
     PAYMENTS ON GLOBAL NOTES.  We will make payments on a global note in
accordance with the applicable policies of the depositary as in effect from time
to time. We understand that these policies, as currently in effect at DTC, are
as follows.
 
     Unless otherwise indicated in your prospectus supplement, if you are an
indirect holder of global notes denominated in a specified currency other than
U.S. dollars and if you elect to receive payments in that other currency, you
must notify the participant through which your interest in the global note is
held of your election:
 
- - on or before the applicable regular record date, in the case of a payment of
  interest, or
 
- - on or before the 16th day prior to stated maturity, or any redemption or
  repayment date, in the case of payment of principal or any premium.
 
     You may elect to receive all or only a portion of any interest, principal
or premium payment in a specified currency other than U.S. dollars.
 
     Your participant must, in turn, notify DTC of your election on or before
the third DTC business day after that regular record date, in the case of a
payment of interest, and on or before the 12th DTC business day prior to stated
maturity, or on the redemption or repayment date if your note is redeemed or
repaid earlier, in the case of a payment of principal or any premium.
 
     DTC, in turn, will notify the paying agent of your election in accordance
with DTC's procedures.
 
     If complete instructions are received by the participant and forwarded by
the participant to DTC, and by DTC to the paying agent, on or before the dates
noted above, the paying agent, in accordance with DTC's in-
                                       139
<PAGE>   166
 
structions, will make the payments to you or your participant by wire transfer
of immediately available funds to an account maintained by the payee with a bank
located in the country issuing the specified currency or in another jurisdiction
acceptable to us and the paying agent.
 
     If the foregoing steps are not properly completed, we expect DTC to inform
the paying agent that payment is to be made in U.S. dollars. In that case, we or
our agent will convert the payment to U.S. dollars in the manner described below
under "-- Conversion to U.S. Dollars". We expect that we or our agent will then
make the payment in U.S. dollars to DTC, and that DTC in turn will pass it along
to its participants.
 
 Indirect holders of a global note denominated in a currency other than U.S.
 dollars should consult their banks or brokers for information on how to
 request payment in the specified currency.
 
     PAYMENTS ON NON-GLOBAL NOTES.  Except as described in the last paragraph
under this heading, we will make payments on notes in non-global form in the
applicable specified currency. We will make these payments by wire transfer of
immediately available funds to any account that is maintained in the applicable
specified currency at a bank designated by the Holder and is acceptable to us
and the trustee. To designate an account for wire payment, the Holder must give
the paying agent appropriate wire instructions at least five business days
before the requested wire payment is due. In the case of any interest payment
due on an interest payment date, the instructions must be given by the person or
entity who is the Holder on the regular record date. In the case of any other
payment, the payment will be made only after the note is surrendered to the
paying agent. Any instructions, once properly given, will remain in effect
unless and until new instructions are properly given in the manner described
above.
 
     If a Holder fails to give instructions as described above, we will notify
the Holder at the address in the trustee's records and will make the payment
within five business days after the Holder provides appropriate instructions.
Any late payment made in these circumstances will be treated under the indenture
as if made on the due date, and no interest will accrue on the late payment from
the due date to the date paid.
 
     Although a payment on a note in non-global form may be due in a specified
currency other than U.S. dollars, we will make the payment in U.S. dollars if
the Holder asks us to do so. To request U.S. dollar payment, the Holder must
provide appropriate written notice to the trustee at least five business days
before the next due date for which payment in U.S. dollars is requested. In the
case of any interest payment due on an interest payment date, the request must
be made by the person or entity who is the Holder on the regular record date.
Any request, once properly made, will remain in effect unless and until revoked
by notice properly given in the manner described above.
 
 Book-entry and other indirect holders of a note with a specified currency
 other than U.S. dollars should contact their banks or brokers for information
 about how to receive payments in the specified currency or in U.S. dollars.
 
     CONVERSION TO U.S. DOLLARS.  When we are asked by a Holder to make payments
in U.S. dollars of an amount due in another currency, either on a global note or
a non-global note as described above, we will determine the U.S. dollar amount
the Holder receives as follows. The exchange rate agent described below will
request currency bid quotations expressed in U.S. dollars from three or, if
three are not available, then two, recognized foreign exchange dealers in New
York City, any of which may be the exchange rate agent, an affiliate of The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. as of 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the second
business day before the payment date. Currency bid quotations will be requested
on an aggregate basis, for all Holders of notes and other debt securities, if
any, requesting U.S. dollar payments of amounts due on the same date in the same
specified currency. The U.S. dollar
 
                                       140
<PAGE>   167
 
amount the Holder receives will be based on the highest acceptable currency bid
quotation received by the exchange rate agent. If the exchange rate agent
determines that at least two acceptable currency bid quotations are not
available on that second business day, the payment will be made in the specified
currency.
 
     To be acceptable, a quotation must be given as of 11:00 A.M., New York City
time, on the second business day before the due date and the quoting dealer must
commit to execute a contract at the quotation. If some but not all of the
relevant notes are LIBOR notes or EURIBOR notes, the second preceding business
day will be determined for this purpose as if none of those notes were LIBOR
notes or EURIBOR notes.
 
     A Holder that requests payment in U.S. dollars will bear all associated
currency exchange costs, which will be deducted from the payment.
 
     WHEN THE SPECIFIED CURRENCY IS NOT AVAILABLE.  If we are obligated to make
any payment in a specified currency other than U.S. dollars, and the specified
currency or any successor currency is not available to us due to circumstances
beyond our control -- such as the imposition of exchange controls or a
disruption in the currency markets -- we will be entitled to satisfy our
obligation to make the payment in that specified currency by making the payment
in U.S. dollars, on the basis of the most recently available exchange rate.
 
     For a specified currency other than U.S. dollars, the exchange rate will be
the noon buying rate for cable transfers of the specified currency in New York
City as quoted by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the then-most recent
day on which that bank has quoted that rate.
 
     The foregoing will apply to any note, whether in global or non-global form,
and to any payment, including a payment at maturity. Any payment made under the
circumstances and in a manner described above will not result in a default under
any note or the indenture.
 
     THE EURO.  The euro may be a specified currency for some notes. On January
1, 1999, the euro became the legal currency for the 11 member states
participating in the European Economic and Monetary Union. During a transition
period from January 1, 1999 to December 31, 2001 and for a maximum of six months
thereafter, the former national currencies of these 11 member states will
continue to be legal tender in their country of issue, at rates irrevocably
fixed on December 31, 1998.
 
     EXCHANGE RATE AGENT.  If we issue a note in a specified currency other than
U.S. dollars, we will appoint a financial institution to act as the exchange
rate agent and will name the institution initially appointed when the note is
originally issued in the applicable prospectus supplement. We may select
Goldman, Sachs & Co. or another of our affiliates to perform this role. We may
change the exchange rate agent from time to time after the original issue date
of the note without your consent and without notifying you of the change.
 
     All determinations made by the exchange rate agent will be at its sole
discretion unless we state in the applicable prospectus supplement that any
determination is subject to our approval. In the absence of manifest error,
those determinations will be conclusive for all purposes and binding on you and
us, without any liability on the part of the exchange rate agent.
 
PAYMENT WHEN OFFICES ARE CLOSED
 
     If any payment is due on a note on a day that is not a business day, we
will make the payment on the next day that is a business day. Payments postponed
to the next business day in this situation will be treated under the indenture
as if they were made on the original due date. Postponement of this kind will
not result in a default under any note or the indenture, and no interest will
accrue on the postponed amount from the original due date to the next day that
is a business day. The term business day has a special meaning, which we
describe above under "-- Special Rate Calculation Terms".
 
                                       141
<PAGE>   168
 
PAYING AGENT
 
     We may appoint one or more financial institutions to act as our paying
agents, at whose designated offices notes in non-global entry form may be
surrendered for payment at their maturity. We call each of those offices a
paying agent. We may add, replace or terminate paying agents from time to time.
We may also choose to act as our own paying agent. Initially, we have appointed
the trustee, at its corporate trust office in New York City, as the paying
agent. We must notify you of changes in the paying agents.
 
UNCLAIMED PAYMENTS
 
     Regardless of who acts as paying agent, all money paid by us to a paying
agent that remains unclaimed at the end of two years after the amount is due to
a Holder will be repaid to us. After that two-year period, the Holder may look
only to us for payment and not to the trustee, any other paying agent or anyone
else.
 
                                    NOTICES
 
     Notices to be given to Holders of a global note will be given only to the
depositary, in accordance with its applicable policies as in effect from time to
time. Notices to be given to Holders of notes not in global form will be sent by
mail to the respective addresses of the Holders as they appear in the trustee's
records, and will be deemed given when mailed. Neither the failure to give any
notice to a particular Holder, nor any defect in a notice given to a particular
Holder, will affect the sufficiency of any notice given to another Holder.
 
 Book-entry and other indirect holders should consult their banks or brokers
 for information on how they will receive notices.
 
                       OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH THE TRUSTEE
 
     The Bank of New York is initially serving as the trustee for the notes and
all other series of debt securities to be issued under the indenture. The Bank
of New York has provided commercial banking and other services for us and our
affiliates in the past and may do so in the future. Among other things, The Bank
of New York provides us with a line of credit, holds debt securities issued by
us and serves as trustee or agent with regard to other debt obligations of The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries.
 
                                       142
<PAGE>   169
 
                             UNITED STATES TAXATION
 
     This section describes the material United States federal income tax
consequences of owning the Series B medium-term notes and is the opinion of
Sullivan & Cromwell, United States tax counsel to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
It applies to you only if you hold your notes as capital assets for tax
purposes. This section does not apply to you if you are a member of a class of
holders subject to special rules, such as:
 
- - a dealer in securities or currencies;
 
- - a trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method of
  accounting for your securities holdings;
 
- - a bank;
 
- - a life insurance company;
 
- - a tax-exempt organization;
 
- - a person that holds notes that are a hedge or that are hedged against interest
  rate or currency risks;
 
- - a person that holds notes as part of a straddle or conversion transaction for
  tax purposes; or
 
- - a person whose functional currency for tax purposes is not the U.S. dollar.
 
This section deals only with notes that are due to mature 30 years or less from
the date on which they are issued. The United States federal income tax
consequences of owning notes that are due to mature more than 30 years from
their date of issue will be discussed in an applicable prospectus supplement.
This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its
legislative history, existing and proposed regulations under the Internal
Revenue Code, and published rulings and court decisions, all as currently in
effect. These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
 
 Please consult your own tax advisor concerning the consequences of owning
 these notes in your particular circumstances under the Internal Revenue Code
 and the laws of any other taxing jurisdiction.
 
                             UNITED STATES HOLDERS
 
     This subsection describes the tax consequences to a United States holder.
You are a United States holder if you are a beneficial owner of a note and you
are:
 
- - a citizen or resident of the United States;
 
- - a domestic corporation;
 
- - an estate whose income is subject to United States federal income tax
  regardless of its source; or
 
- - a trust if a United States court can exercise primary supervision over the
  trust's administration and one or more United States persons are authorized to
  control all substantial decisions of the trust.
 
If you are not a United States holder, this subsection does not apply to you and
you should refer to "-- United States Alien Holders" below.
 
PAYMENTS OF INTEREST
 
     Except as described below in the case of interest on a discount note that
is not qualified stated interest, each as defined below under "-- Original Issue
Discount -- General", you will be taxed on any interest on your note, whether
payable in U.S. dollars or a foreign currency, including a composite currency or
basket of currencies other than U.S. dollars, as ordinary income at the time you
receive the interest or it accrues, depending on your method of accounting for
tax purposes.
 
     CASH BASIS TAXPAYERS.  If you are a taxpayer that uses the cash receipts
and disbursements method of accounting for tax purposes and you receive an
interest payment that is denominated in, or determined by reference to, a
foreign currency, you must recognize income equal to the U.S. dollar value of
the interest payment, based on the exchange rate in effect on the date of
receipt, regardless of whether you actually convert the payment into U.S.
dollars.
 
     ACCRUAL BASIS TAXPAYERS.  If you are a taxpayer that uses an accrual method
of accounting for tax purposes, you may
 
                                       143
<PAGE>   170
 
determine the amount of income that you recognize with respect to an interest
payment denominated in, or determined by reference to, a foreign currency by
using one of two methods. Under the first method, you will determine the amount
of income accrued based on the average exchange rate in effect during the
interest accrual period or, with respect to an accrual period that spans two
taxable years, that part of the period within the taxable year.
 
     If you elect the second method, you would determine the amount of income
accrued on the basis of the exchange rate in effect on the last day of the
accrual period or, in the case of an accrual period that spans two taxable
years, the exchange rate in effect on the last day of the part of the period
within the taxable year. Additionally, under this second method, if you receive
a payment of interest within five business days of the last day of your accrual
period or taxable year, you may instead translate the interest accrued into U.S.
dollars at the exchange rate in effect on the day that you actually receive the
interest payment. If you elect the second method, it will apply to all debt
instruments that you hold at the beginning of the first taxable year to which
the election applies and to all debt instruments that you subsequently acquire.
You may not revoke this election without the consent of the Internal Revenue
Service.
 
     When you actually receive an interest payment, including a payment
attributable to accrued but unpaid interest upon the sale or retirement of your
note, denominated in, or determined by reference to, a foreign currency for
which you accrued an amount of income, you will recognize ordinary income or
loss measured by the difference, if any, between the exchange rate that you used
to accrue interest income and the exchange rate in effect on the date of
receipt, regardless of whether you actually convert the payment into U.S.
dollars. However, you may not treat this ordinary income gain or loss as an
adjustment to the interest income you receive.
 
ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT
 
     GENERAL.  If you own a note, other than a short-term note with a term of
one year or less, it will be treated as a discount note issued at an original
issue discount if the amount by which the note's stated redemption price at
maturity exceeds its issue price is more than a de minimis amount. Generally, a
note's issue price will be the first price at which a substantial amount of
notes included in the issue of which the note is a part is sold to persons other
than bond houses, brokers, or similar persons or organizations acting in the
capacity of underwriters, placement agents, or wholesalers. A note's stated
redemption price at maturity is the total of all payments provided by the note
that are not payments of qualified stated interest. Generally, an interest
payment on a note is qualified stated interest if it is one of a series of
stated interest payments on a note that are unconditionally payable at least
annually at a single fixed rate, with certain exceptions for lower rates paid
during some periods, applied to the outstanding principal amount of the note.
There are special rules for variable rate notes that are discussed under
"-- Variable Rate Notes".
 
     In general, your note is not a discount note if the amount by which its
stated redemption price at maturity exceeds its issue price is less than the de
minimis amount of 1/4 of 1% of its stated redemption price at maturity
multiplied by the number of complete years to its maturity. Your note will have
de minimis original issue discount if the amount of the excess is less than the
de minimis amount. If your note has de minimis original issue discount, you must
include the de minimis amount in income as stated principal payments are made on
the note, unless you make the election described below under "-- Election to
Treat All Interest as Original Issue Discount". You can determine the includible
amount with respect to each such payment by multiplying the total amount of
 
                                       144
<PAGE>   171
 
your note's de minimis original issue discount by a fraction equal to:
 
- - the amount of the principal payment made
 
divided by
 
- - the stated principal amount of the note.
 
     Generally, if your discount note matures more than one year from its date
of issue, you must include original issue discount in income before you receive
cash attributable to that income. The amount of OID that you must include in
income is calculated using a constant-yield method, and generally you will
include increasingly greater amounts of OID in income over the life of your
note. More specifically, you can calculate the amount of accrued OID that you
must include in income by adding the daily portions of OID with respect to your
discount note for each day during the taxable year or portion of the taxable
year that you hold your discount note. You can determine the daily portion by
allocating to each day in any accrual period a pro rata portion of the OID
allocable to that accrual period. You may select an accrual period of any length
with respect to your note and you may vary the length of each accrual period
over the term of your note. However, no accrual period may be longer than one
year and each scheduled payment of interest or principal on the note must occur
on either the first or final day of an accrual period.
 
     You can determine the amount of OID allocable to an accrual period by:
 
- - multiplying your discount note's adjusted issue price at the beginning of the
  accrual period by your note's yield to maturity; and then
 
- - subtracting from this figure the sum of the payments of qualified stated
  interest on your note allocable to the accrual period.
 
You must determine the note's yield to maturity on the basis of compounding at
the close of each accrual period and adjusting for the length of each accrual
period. Further, you can determine your discount note's adjusted issue price at
the beginning of any accrual period by:
 
- - adding your note's issue price and any accrued OID for each prior accrual
  period; and then
 
- - subtracting any payments previously made on your note that were not qualified
  stated interest payments.
 
     If an interval between payments of qualified stated interest on your note
contains more than one accrual period, then, when you determine the amount of
OID allocable to an accrual period, you must allocate the amount of qualified
stated interest payable at the end of the interval, including any qualified
stated interest that is payable on the first day of the accrual period
immediately following the interval, pro rata to each accrual period in the
interval based on their relative lengths. In addition, you must increase the
adjusted issue price at the beginning of each accrual period in the interval by
the amount of any qualified stated interest that has accrued prior to the first
day of the accrual period but that is not payable until the end of the interval.
You may compute the amount of OID allocable to an initial short accrual period
by using any reasonable method if all other accrual periods, other than a final
short accrual period, are of equal length.
 
     The amount of OID allocable to the final accrual period is equal to the
difference between:
 
- - the amount payable at the maturity of your note, other than any payment of
  qualified stated interest; and
 
- - your note's adjusted issue price as of the beginning of the final accrual
  period.
 
     ACQUISITION PREMIUM.  If you purchase your note for an amount that is less
than or equal to the sum of all amounts, other than qualified stated interest,
payable on your note after the purchase date but is greater than the amount of
your note's adjusted issue price, as determined above under "-- General", the
excess is acquisition premium. If you do not make the election described below
under "-- Election to Treat All Interest as Original Issue Discount", then
 
                                       145
<PAGE>   172
 
you must reduce the daily portions of OID by an amount equal to:
 
- - the excess of your adjusted basis in the note immediately after purchase
 
over
 
- - the adjusted issue price of the note
 
divided by:
 
- - the excess of the sum of all amounts payable (other than qualified stated
  interest) on the note after the purchase date
 
over
 
- - the note's adjusted issue price.
 
     MARKET DISCOUNT.  You will be treated as if you purchased your note, other
than a short-term note, at a market discount, and your note will be a market
discount note if:
 
- - you purchase your note for less than its issue price as determined above under
  "-- General"; and
 
- - the note's stated redemption price at maturity or, in the case of a discount
  note, the note's revised issue price, exceeds the price you paid for your note
  by at least 1/4 of 1% of your note's stated redemption price at maturity or
  revised issue price, respectively, multiplied by the number of complete years
  to the note's maturity. To determine the revised issue price of your note for
  these purposes, you generally add any OID that has accrued on your note to its
  issue price.
 
     If your note's stated redemption price at maturity or, in the case of a
discount note, its revised issue price, does not exceed the price you paid for
the note by 1/4 of 1% multiplied by the number of complete years to the note's
maturity, the excess constitutes de minimis market discount, and the rules
discussed below are not applicable to you.
 
     You must treat any gain you recognize on the maturity or disposition of
your market discount note as ordinary income to the extent of the accrued market
discount on your note. Alternatively, you may elect to include market discount
in income currently over the life of your note. If you make this election, it
will apply to all debt instruments with market discount that you acquire on or
after the first day of the first taxable year to which the election applies. You
may not revoke this election without the consent of the Internal Revenue
Service. If you own a market discount note and do not make this election, you
will generally be required to defer deductions for interest on borrowings
allocable to your note in an amount not exceeding the accrued market discount on
your note until the maturity or disposition of your note.
 
     You will accrue market discount on your market discount note on a
straight-line basis unless you elect to accrue market discount using a
constant-yield method. If you make this election, it will apply only to the note
with respect to which it is made and you may not revoke it.
 
     If you are an accrual-basis taxpayer, you should be aware that the Clinton
administration has recently proposed legislation that would require you to
include market discount in income currently over the life of your note, subject
to certain limitations. If enacted, this proposal would only be effective if you
acquire your market discount note on or after the date of enactment. We do not
yet know whether this proposal will be enacted or when it will become effective
if enacted.
 
     PRE-ISSUANCE ACCRUED INTEREST.  An election may be made to decrease the
issue price of your note by the amount of pre-issuance accrued interest if:
 
- - a portion of the initial purchase price of your note is attributable to
  pre-issuance accrued interest;
 
- - the first stated interest payment on your note is to be made within one year
  of your note's issue date; and
 
- - the payment will equal or exceed the amount of pre-issuance accrued interest.
 
     If this election is made, a portion of the first stated interest payment
will be treated as a return of the excluded pre-issuance accrued interest and
not as an amount payable on your note.
 
                                       146
<PAGE>   173
 
     NOTES SUBJECT TO CONTINGENCIES INCLUDING OPTIONAL REDEMPTION.  Your note is
subject to a contingency if it provides for an alternative payment schedule or
schedules applicable upon the occurrence of a contingency or contingencies,
other than a remote or incidental contingency, whether such contingency relates
to payments of interest or of principal. In such a case, you must determine the
yield and maturity of your note by assuming that the payments will be made
according to the payment schedule most likely to occur if:
 
- - the timing and amounts of the payments that comprise each payment schedule are
  known as of the issue date; and
 
- - one of such schedules is significantly more likely than not to occur.
 
If there is no single payment schedule that is significantly more likely than
not to occur, other than because of a mandatory sinking fund, you must include
income on your note in accordance with the general rules that govern contingent
payment obligations. These rules will be discussed in the applicable prospectus
supplement.
 
     Notwithstanding the general rules for determining yield and maturity, if
your note is subject to contingencies, and either you or we have an
unconditional option or options that, if exercised, would require payments to be
made on the note under an alternative payment schedule or schedules, then in the
case of an option or options of ours, we will be deemed to exercise or not
exercise an option or combination of options in the manner that minimizes the
yield on your note and, in the case of an option or options that you hold, you
will be deemed to exercise or not exercise an option or combination of options
in the manner that maximizes the yield on your note. If both you and we hold
options described in the preceding sentence, those rules will apply to each
option in the order in which they may be exercised. You may determine the yield
on your note for the purposes of those calculations by using any date on which
your note may be redeemed or repurchased as the maturity date and the amount
payable on the date that you chose in accordance with the terms of your note as
the principal amount payable at maturity.
 
     If a contingency, including the exercise of an option, actually occurs or
does not occur contrary to an assumption made according to the above rules then,
except to the extent that a portion of your note is repaid as a result of this
change in circumstances and solely to determine the amount and accrual of OID,
you must redetermine the yield and maturity of your note by treating your note
as having been retired and reissued on the date of the change in circumstances
for an amount equal to your note's adjusted issue price on that date.
 
     ELECTION TO TREAT ALL INTEREST AS ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT.  You may elect
to include in gross income all interest that accrues on your note using the
constant-yield method described above under "-- General", with the modifications
described below. For purposes of this election, interest will include stated
interest, OID, de minimis original issue discount, market discount, de minimis
market discount and unstated interest, as adjusted by any amortizable bond
premium, described below under "-- Notes Purchased at a Premium", or acquisition
premium.
 
     If you make this election for your note, then, when you apply the
constant-yield method:
 
- - the issue price of your note will equal your cost;
 
- - the issue date of your note will be the date you acquired it; and
 
- - no payments on your note will be treated as payments of qualified stated
  interest.
 
Generally, this election will apply only to the note for which you make it;
however, if the note for which this election is made has amortizable bond
premium, you will be deemed to have made an election to apply amortizable bond
premium against interest for all debt instruments with amortizable bond premium,
other than debt instruments the interest on which is excludible from gross
income, that you hold as of the beginning of the taxable year to which the
election applies or any taxable year thereafter. Additionally, if you make this
election for a market discount note, you will be treated as having made the
election discussed above under "-- Market
                                       147
<PAGE>   174
 
Discount" to include market discount in income currently over the life of all
debt instruments that you currently hold or later acquire. You may not revoke
any election to apply the constant-yield method to all interest on a note or the
deemed elections with respect to amortizable bond premium or market discount
notes without the consent of the Internal Revenue Service.
 
     VARIABLE RATE NOTES.  Your note will be a variable rate note if:
 
- - your note's issue price does not exceed the total noncontingent principal
  payments by more than the lesser of:
 
  1. .015 multiplied by the product of the total noncontingent principal
     payments and the number of complete years to maturity from the issue date,
     or
 
  2. 15 percent of the total noncontingent principal payments; and
 
- - your note provides for stated interest, compounded or paid at least annually,
  only at:
 
  1. one or more qualified floating rates,
 
  2. a single fixed rate and one or more qualified floating rates,
 
  3. a single objective rate, or
 
  4. a single fixed rate and a single objective rate that is a qualified inverse
     floating rate.
 
Your note will have a variable rate that is a qualified floating rate if:
 
- - variations in the value of the rate can reasonably be expected to measure
  contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds in the currency
  in which your note is denominated; or
 
- - the rate is equal to such a rate multiplied by either:
 
  1. a fixed multiple that is greater than 0.65 but not more than 1.35, or
 
  2. a fixed multiple that is greater than 0.65 but not more than 1.35,
     increased or decreased by a fixed rate; and
 
- - the value of the rate on any date during the term of your note is set no
  earlier than three months prior to the first day on which that value is in
  effect and no later than one year following that first day.
 
     If your note provides for two or more qualified floating rates that are
within 0.25 percentage points of each other on the issue date or can reasonably
be expected to have approximately the same values throughout the term of the
note, the qualified floating rates together constitute a single qualified
floating rate.
 
     Your note will not have a qualified floating rate, however, if the rate is
subject to certain restrictions (including caps, floors, governors, or other
similar restrictions) unless such restrictions are fixed throughout the term of
the note or are not reasonably expected to significantly affect the yield on the
note.
 
     Your note will have a variable rate that is a single objective rate if:
 
- - the rate is not a qualified floating rate;
 
- - the rate is determined using a single, fixed formula that is based on
  objective financial or economic information that is not within the control of
  or unique to the circumstances of the issuer or a related party; and
 
- - the value of the rate on any date during the term of your note is set no
  earlier than three months prior to the first day on which that value is in
  effect and no later than one year following that first day.
 
     Your note will not have a variable rate that is an objective rate, however,
if it is reasonably expected that the average value of the rate during the first
half of your note's term will be either significantly less than or significantly
greater than the average value of the rate during the final half of your note's
term.
 
     An objective rate as described above is a qualified inverse floating rate
if:
 
- - the rate is equal to a fixed rate minus a qualified floating rate; and
 
- - the variations in the rate can reasonably be expected to inversely reflect
  contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds.
 
                                       148
<PAGE>   175
 
     Your note will also have a single qualified floating rate or an objective
rate if interest on your note is stated at a fixed rate for an initial period of
one year or less followed by either a qualified floating rate or an objective
rate for a subsequent period, and either:
 
- - the fixed rate and the qualified floating rate or objective rate have values
  on the issue date of the note that do not differ by more than 0.25 percentage
  points; or
 
- - the value of the qualified floating rate or objective rate is intended to
  approximate the fixed rate.
 
     Commercial paper rate notes, prime rate notes, LIBOR notes, EURIBOR notes,
treasury rate notes, CMT rate notes, CD rate notes, federal funds rate notes,
and 11th district rate notes generally will be treated as variable rate notes
under these rules.
 
     In general, if your variable rate note provides for stated interest at a
single qualified floating rate or objective rate (or one of those rates after a
single fixed rate for an initial period), all stated interest on your note is
qualified stated interest. In this case, the amount of OID, if any, is
determined by using, for a qualified floating rate or qualified inverse floating
rate, the value as of the issue date of the qualified floating rate or qualified
inverse floating rate, or, for any other objective rate, a fixed rate that
reflects the yield reasonably expected for your note.
 
     If your variable rate note does not provide for stated interest at a single
qualified floating rate or a single objective rate, and also does not provide
for interest payable at a fixed rate other than a single fixed rate for an
initial period, you generally must determine the interest and OID accruals on
your note by:
 
- - determining a fixed rate substitute for each variable rate provided under your
  variable rate note;
 
- - constructing the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument (using the fixed rate
  substitute described above);
 
- - determining the amount of qualified stated interest and OID with respect to
  the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument; and
 
- - adjusting for actual variable rates during the applicable accrual period.
 
When you determine the fixed rate substitute for each variable rate provided
under the variable rate note, you generally will use the value of each variable
rate as of the issue date or, for an objective rate that is not a qualified
inverse floating rate, a rate that reflects the reasonably expected yield on
your note.
 
     If your variable rate note provides for stated interest either at one or
more qualified floating rates or at a qualified inverse floating rate, and also
provides for stated interest at a single fixed rate other than a single fixed
rate for an initial period, you generally must determine interest and OID
accruals by using the method described in the previous paragraph. However, your
variable rate note will be treated, for purposes of the first three steps of the
determination, as if your note had provided for a qualified floating rate, or a
qualified inverse floating rate, rather than the fixed rate. The qualified
floating rate, or qualified inverse floating rate, that replaces the fixed rate
must be such that the fair market value of your variable rate note as of the
issue date approximates the fair market value of an otherwise identical debt
instrument that provides for the qualified floating rate, or qualified inverse
floating rate, rather than the fixed rate.
 
     SHORT-TERM NOTES.  In general, if you are an individual or other cash basis
United States holder of a short-term note, you are not required to accrue OID,
as specially defined below for the purposes of this paragraph, for United States
federal income tax purposes unless you elect to do so. However, you may be
required to include any stated interest in income as you receive it. If you are
an accrual basis taxpayer, a taxpayer in a special class, including, but not
limited to, a regulated investment company, common trust fund, or a certain type
of pass-through entity, or a cash basis taxpayer who so elects, you will be
required to accrue OID on short-term notes on either a straight-line basis or
under the constant-yield method, based on daily compounding. If you are not
required and do not elect to include OID in income currently,
                                       149
<PAGE>   176
 
any gain you realize on the sale or retirement of your short-term note will be
ordinary income to the extent of the accrued OID, which will be determined on a
straight-line basis unless you make an election to accrue the OID under the
constant-yield method, through the date of sale or retirement. However, if you
are not required and do not elect to accrue OID on your short-term notes, you
will be required to defer deductions for interest on borrowings allocable to
your short-term notes in an amount not exceeding the deferred income until the
deferred income is realized.
 
     When you determine the amount of OID subject to these rules, you must
include all interest payments on your short-term note, including stated
interest, in your short-term note's stated redemption price at maturity.
 
     FOREIGN CURRENCY DISCOUNT NOTES.  If your discount note is denominated in,
or determined by reference to, a foreign currency, you must determine OID for
any accrual period on your discount note in the foreign currency and then
translate the amount of OID into U.S. dollars in the same manner as stated
interest accrued by an accrual basis United States holder, as described under
"-- United States Holders -- Payments of Interest". You may recognize ordinary
income or loss when you receive an amount attributable to OID in connection with
a payment of interest or the sale or retirement of your note.
 
NOTES PURCHASED AT A PREMIUM
 
     If you purchase your note for an amount in excess of its principal amount,
you may elect to treat the excess as amortizable bond premium. If you make this
election, you will reduce the amount required to be included in your income each
year with respect to interest on your note by the amount of amortizable bond
premium allocable to that year, based on your note's yield to maturity. If your
note is denominated in, or determined by reference to, a foreign currency, you
will compute your amortizable bond premium in units of the foreign currency and
your amortizable bond premium will reduce your interest income in units of the
foreign currency. Gain or loss recognized that is attributable to changes in
exchange rates between the time your amortized bond premium offsets interest
income and the time of the acquisition of your note is generally taxable as
ordinary income or loss. If you make an election to amortize bond premium, it
will apply to all debt instruments, other than debt instruments the interest on
which is excludible from gross income, that you hold at the beginning of the
first taxable year to which the election applies or thereafter acquire, and you
may not revoke it without the consent of the Internal Revenue Service. See also
"-- Original Issue Discount -- Election to Treat All Interest as Original Issue
Discount".
 
PURCHASE, SALE AND RETIREMENT OF THE NOTES
 
     Your tax basis in your note will generally be the U.S. dollar cost, as
defined below, of your note, adjusted by:
 
- - adding any OID or market discount, de minimis original issue discount and de
  minimis market discount; and then
 
- - subtracting any payments on your note that are not qualified stated interest
  payments and any amortizable bond premium applied to reduce the interest on
  your note.
 
If you purchase your note with foreign currency, the U.S. dollar cost of your
note will generally be the U.S. dollar value of the purchase price on the date
of purchase. However, if you are a cash basis taxpayer, or an accrual basis
taxpayer if you so elect, and your note is traded on an established securities
market, as defined in the applicable Treasury regulations, the U.S. dollar cost
of your note will be the U.S. dollar value of the purchase price on the
settlement date of your purchase.
 
     You will generally recognize gain or loss on the sale or retirement of your
note equal to the difference between the amount you realize on the sale or
retirement and your tax basis in your note. If your note is sold or retired for
an amount in foreign currency, the amount you realize will be the U.S. dollar
value of such amount on:
 
- - the date payment is received, if you are a cash basis taxpayer and the notes
  are not
 
                                       150
<PAGE>   177
 
  traded on an established securities market, as defined in the applicable
  Treasury regulations;
 
- - the date of disposition, if you are an accrual basis taxpayer; or
 
- - the settlement date for the sale, if you are a cash basis taxpayer, or an
  accrual basis United States holder that so elects, and the notes are traded on
  an established securities market, as defined in the applicable Treasury
  regulations.
 
     You will recognize capital gain or loss when you sell or retire your note,
except to the extent attributable to changes in exchange rates as described in
the next paragraph or to accrued but unpaid interest, described above under
"-- Original Issue Discount -- Short-Term Notes" or "-- Market Discount", or
subject to the rules governing contingent payment obligations. Capital gain of a
non-corporate United States holder is generally taxed at a maximum rate of 20%
where the property is held for more than one year.
 
     You must treat any portion of the gain or loss that you recognize on the
sale or retirement of a note as ordinary income or loss to the extent
attributable to changes in exchange rates. However, you only take exchange gain
or loss into account to the extent of the total gain or loss you realize on the
transaction.
 
EXCHANGE OF AMOUNTS IN OTHER THAN U.S. DOLLARS
 
     If you receive foreign currency as interest on your note or on the sale or
retirement of your note, your tax basis in the foreign currency will equal its
U.S. dollar value when the interest is received or at the time of the sale or
retirement. If you purchase foreign currency, you generally will have a tax
basis equal to the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency on the date of your
purchase. If you sell or dispose of a foreign currency, including if you use it
to purchase notes or exchange it for U.S. dollars, any gain or loss recognized
generally will be ordinary income or loss.
 
INDEXED AND OTHER NOTES
 
     The applicable prospectus supplement will discuss any special United States
federal income tax rules with respect to contingent foreign currency notes,
notes the payments on which are determined by reference to any index and other
notes that are subject to the rules governing contingent payment obligations
which are not subject to the rules governing variable rate notes.
 
                          UNITED STATES ALIEN HOLDERS
 
     This subsection describes the tax consequences to a United States alien
holder. You are a United States alien holder if you are the beneficial owner of
a note and are, for United States federal income tax purposes:
 
- - a nonresident alien individual;
 
- - a foreign corporation;
 
- - a foreign partnership; or
 
- - an estate or trust that is not subject to United States federal income tax on
  a net income basis on income or gain from a note.
 
If you are a United States holder, this section does not apply to you.
 
     This discussion assumes that the note is not subject to the rules of
Section 871(h)(4)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to interest payments
that are determined by reference to the income, profits, changes in the value of
property or other attributes of the debtor or a related party.
 
     Under present United States federal income and estate tax law, and subject
to the discussion of backup withholding below, if you are a United States alien
holder of a note:
 
- - we and other payors will not be required to deduct United States withholding
  tax from payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest, including OID,
  to you if, in the case of interest:
 
   1. you do not actually or constructively own 10% or more of the total
      combined voting power of all classes of stock of
 
                                       151
<PAGE>   178
 
      The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. entitled to vote,
 
   2. you are not a controlled foreign corporation that is related to us through
      stock ownership, and
 
      a. you certify to us or a U.S. payor, under penalties of perjury, that you
         are not a United States holder and provide your name and address, or
 
      b. a non-U.S. securities clearing organization, bank or other financial
         institution that holds customers' securities in the ordinary course of
         its trade or business and holds the note certifies to us or a U.S.
         payor under penalties of perjury that a similar statement has been
         received from you by it or by a similar financial institution between
         it and you and furnishes the payor with a copy thereof; and
 
- - no deduction for any United States federal withholding tax will be made from
  any gain that you realize on the sale or exchange of your note.
 
Further, a note held by an individual, who at death is not a citizen or resident
of the United States will not be includible in the individual's gross estate for
United States federal estate tax purposes if:
 
- - the decedent did not actually or constructively own 10% or more of the total
  combined voting power of all classes of stock of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
  entitled to vote at the time of death; and
 
- - the income on the note would not have been effectively connected with a United
  States trade or business of the decedent at the same time.
 
     If you receive a payment after December 31, 2000, recently finalized
Treasury regulations will apply. Under these final withholding regulations,
after December 31, 2000, you may use an alternative method to satisfy the
certification requirement described above. Additionally, if you are a partner in
a foreign partnership, after December 31, 2000, you, in addition to the foreign
partnership, must provide the certification described above, and the partnership
must provide certain information, including a United States taxpayer
identification number. The Internal Revenue Service will apply a look-through
rule in the case of tiered partnerships.
 
                             BACKUP WITHHOLDING AND
                             INFORMATION REPORTING
 
UNITED STATES HOLDERS
 
     In general, if you are a non-corporate United States holder, we and other
payors are required to report to the Internal Revenue Service all payments of
principal, any premium and interest on your note and the accrual of OID on a
discount note. In addition, the proceeds of the sale of your note before
maturity within the United States will be reported to the Internal Revenue
Service. Additionally, backup withholding at a rate of 31% will apply to any
payments, including payments of OID, if you fail to provide an accurate
certified taxpayer identification number, or you are notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that you have failed to report all interest and dividends
required to be shown on your federal income tax returns.
 
UNITED STATES ALIEN HOLDERS
 
     You are generally exempt from backup withholding and information reporting,
with respect to any payments of principal, premium or interest, including OID,
made by us and other payors, provided that you provide the certification
described above under "-- United States Alien Holders", and provided further
that the payor does not have actual knowledge that you are a United States
person. See "-- United States Alien Holders" above for a discussion of the rules
under the final withholding regulations. We and other payors, however, may
report payments of interest on your notes on Internal Revenue Service Form
1042-S.
 
     In general, payment of the proceeds from the sale of notes to or through a
United States office of a broker is subject to both United States backup
withholding and information reporting. If, however, you are a United States
alien holder, you will not be subject to information reporting and backup
withholding if you certify as to your non-
                                       152
<PAGE>   179
 
United States status, under penalties of perjury, or otherwise establish an
exemption. Payments of the proceeds from the sale by a United States alien
holder of a note made to or through a foreign office of a broker will not be
subject to information reporting or backup withholding. However, information
reporting, but not backup withholding, may apply to a payment made outside the
United States of the proceeds of a sale of a note through an office outside the
United States if the broker is:
 
- - a United States person;
 
- - a controlled foreign corporation for United States tax purposes;
 
- - a foreign person 50% or more of whose gross income is effectively connected
  with a United States trade or business for a specified three-year period; or
 
- - with respect to payments made after December 31, 2000, a foreign partnership,
  if at any time during its tax year:
 
  1. one or more of its partners are "U.S. persons", as defined in U.S. Treasury
     regulations, who in the aggregate hold more than 50% of the income or
     capital interest in the partnership; or
 
  2. the foreign partnership is engaged in a United States trade or business
 
unless the broker has documentary evidence in its records that you are a
non-U.S. person and does not have actual knowledge that you are a U.S. person,
or you otherwise establish an exemption.
 
                                       153
<PAGE>   180
 
                    EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT
 
     This section is only relevant to you if you are an insurance company or the
fiduciary of a pension plan or an employee benefit plan proposing to invest in
the notes.
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and certain of its affiliates may each be
considered a "party in interest" within the meaning of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), or a "disqualified person"
within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to many employee
benefit plans. Prohibited transactions within the meaning of ERISA or the
Internal Revenue Code may arise, for example, if the notes are acquired by or
with the assets of a pension or other employee benefit plan for which The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. or any of its affiliates is a service provider, unless
those notes are acquired pursuant to an exemption for transactions effected on
behalf of that plan by a "qualified professional asset manager" or an "in-house
asset manager" or pursuant to any other available exemption. The assets of a
pension or other employee benefit plan may include assets held in the general
account of an insurance company that are deemed to be "plan assets" under ERISA.
 
 If you are an insurance company, or the fiduciary of a pension plan or an
 employee benefit plan and propose to invest in the notes, you should consult
 your legal counsel.
 
                             VALIDITY OF THE NOTES
 
     In connection with the commencement of our Series B medium-term note
program, the validity of the notes will be passed upon for The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc. by one of its General Counsel, and for the agents by Sullivan &
Cromwell, New York, New York. The opinions of the General Counsel of The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. and of Sullivan & Cromwell will be based on certain
assumptions about future actions required to be taken by The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc. and the trustee in connection with the issuance and sale of each
note, about the specific terms of each note and about other matters that may
affect the validity of the notes but cannot be ascertained on the date of those
opinions.
 
     Sullivan & Cromwell has in the past represented and continues to represent
Goldman Sachs on a regular basis and in a variety of matters. Sullivan &
Cromwell represented The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. in connection with our common
stock offering and our underwritten debt offerings, and has performed services
for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. in connection with this offering.
 
                                    EXPERTS
 
     The financial statements of Goldman Sachs as of November 28, 1997 and
November 27, 1998 and for each of the three years in the period ended November
27, 1998 included in this prospectus and the financial statement schedule
included in the registration statement have been so included in reliance on the
report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent accountants, given on the
authority of said firm as experts in auditing and accounting.
 
     The historical consolidated income statement data and balance sheet data
set forth in "Selected Consolidated Financial Data" for each of the five years
in the period ended November 27, 1998 included in this prospectus have been so
included in reliance on the report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent
accountants, given on the authority of said firm as experts in auditing and
accounting.
 
     With respect to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements
of Goldman Sachs as of and for the three months ended February 26, 1999 and for
the three months ended February 27, 1998, included in this
 
                                       154
<PAGE>   181
 
prospectus, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP reported that they have applied limited
procedures in accordance with professional standards for a review of such
information. However, their separate report dated April 9, 1999 appearing herein
states that they did not audit and they do not express an opinion on the
unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, the degree
of reliance on their report on such information should be restricted in light of
the limited nature of the review procedures applied. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
is not subject to the liability provisions of Section 11 of the Securities Act
of 1933 for their report on the unaudited historical financial information
because this report is not a "report" or a "part" of the registration statement
prepared or certified by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP within the meaning of
Sections 7 and 11 of the Securities Act of 1933.
 
     Except as otherwise indicated, all amounts with respect to the volume,
number and market share of mergers and acquisitions and underwriting
transactions and related ranking information included in this prospectus have
been derived from information compiled and classified by Securities Data Company
and have been so included in reliance on Securities Data Company's authority as
experts in compiling and classifying information as to securities transactions.
 
                             AVAILABLE INFORMATION
 
     As a result of its common stock offering, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is
required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and
other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any documents filed by us
at the SEC's public reference room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the
public reference room. Our filings with the SEC are also available to the public
through the SEC's Internet site at http://www.sec.gov and through the NYSE, 20
Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.
 
     We have filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-1 relating to
the notes. This prospectus is a part of the registration statement and does not
contain all the information in the registration statement. Whenever a reference
is made in this prospectus to a contract or other document, please be aware that
the reference is not necessarily complete and that you should refer to the
exhibits that are part of the registration statement for a copy of the contract
or other document. You may review a copy of the registration statement at the
SEC's public reference room in Washington, D.C. as well as through the SEC's
Internet site noted above.
 
                                       155
<PAGE>   182
 
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              PAGE
                                                              ----
<S>                                                           <C>
Consolidated Financial Statements as of November 27, 1998
  and November 28, 1997 and for the three years in the
  period ended November 27, 1998
Report of Independent Accountants...........................   F-2
Consolidated Statements of Earnings.........................   F-3
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition..............   F-4
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Partners' Capital.....   F-5
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.......................   F-6
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................   F-7
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of February
  26, 1999 and for the three months ended February 26, 1999
  and February 27, 1998 (unaudited)
Review Report of Independent Accountants....................  F-24
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings...............  F-25
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition.....  F-26
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Changes in Partners'
  Capital...................................................  F-27
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.............  F-28
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements........  F-29
</TABLE>
 
                                       F-1
<PAGE>   183
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Partners,
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.:
 
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition
and the related consolidated statements of earnings, changes in partners'
capital and cash flows (included on pages F-3 to F-23 of this prospectus)
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and Subsidiaries (the "Firm") as of November 27,
1998 and November 28, 1997, and the results of their consolidated operations and
their consolidated cash flows for the three years in the period ended November
27, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Firm's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards, which require that we plan and perform
the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
We have also previously audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, the consolidated statements of financial condition as of November 29,
1996, November 24, 1995 and November 25, 1994, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, changes in partners' capital and cash flows for the
years ended November 24, 1995 and November 25, 1994 (none of which are presented
herein); and we expressed unqualified opinions on those consolidated financial
statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the selected historical
consolidated income statement and balance sheet data for each of the five years
in the period ended November 27, 1998 (included on pages 38 and 39 of this
prospectus) is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the
consolidated financial statements from which it has been derived.
 
/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
 
New York, New York
January 22, 1999.
 
                                       F-2
<PAGE>   184
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                            -----------------------------------
                                                             1996          1997          1998
                                                             ----          ----          ----
                                                                       (in millions)
<S>                                                         <C>        <C>              <C>
REVENUES:
Investment banking........................................  $ 2,113       $ 2,587       $ 3,368
Trading and principal investments.........................    2,496         2,303         2,015
Asset management and securities services..................      981         1,456         2,085
Interest income...........................................   11,699        14,087        15,010
                                                            -------       -------       -------
          Total revenues..................................   17,289        20,433        22,478
Interest expense, principally on short-term funding.......   11,160        12,986        13,958
                                                            -------       -------       -------
          Revenues, net of interest expense...............    6,129         7,447         8,520
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Compensation and benefits.................................    2,421         3,097         3,838
Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees.....................      278           357           424
Market development........................................      137           206           287
Communications and technology.............................      173           208           265
Depreciation and amortization.............................      172           178           242
Occupancy.................................................      154           168           207
Professional services and other...........................      188           219           336
                                                            -------       -------       -------
          Total operating expenses........................    3,523         4,433         5,599
Pre-tax earnings..........................................    2,606         3,014         2,921
Provision for taxes.......................................      207           268           493
                                                            -------       -------       -------
Net earnings..............................................  $ 2,399       $ 2,746       $ 2,428
                                                            =======       =======       =======
</TABLE>
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
                                       F-3
<PAGE>   185
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                              --------------------
                                                                1997        1998
                                                                ----        ----
                                                                 (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
ASSETS:
Cash and cash equivalents...................................  $  1,328    $  2,836
Cash and securities segregated in compliance with U.S.
  federal and other regulations (principally U.S. government
  obligations)..............................................     4,903       7,887
Receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing
  organizations.............................................     3,754       4,321
Receivables from customers and counterparties...............    10,060      14,953
Securities borrowed.........................................    51,058      69,158
Securities purchased under agreements to resell.............    39,376      37,484
Right to receive securities.................................        --       7,564
Financial instruments owned, at fair value:
  Commercial paper, certificates of deposit and time
     deposits...............................................     1,477       1,382
  U.S. government, federal agency and sovereign
     obligations............................................    25,736      24,789
  Corporate debt............................................    11,321      10,744
  Equities and convertible debentures.......................    11,870      11,066
  State, municipal and provincial obligations...............     1,105         918
  Derivative contracts......................................    13,788      21,299
  Physical commodities......................................     1,092         481
Other assets................................................     1,533       2,498
                                                              --------    --------
                                                              $178,401    $217,380
                                                              ========    ========
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH:
Short-term borrowings, including commercial paper...........  $ 21,008    $ 27,430
Payables to brokers, dealers and clearing organizations.....       952         730
Payables to customers and counterparties....................    22,995      36,179
Securities loaned...........................................    17,627      21,117
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase..............    44,057      36,257
Obligation to return securities.............................        --       9,783
Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair
  value:
  U.S. government, federal agency and sovereign
     obligations............................................    22,371      22,360
  Corporate debt............................................     1,708       1,441
  Equities and convertible debentures.......................     6,357       6,406
  Derivative contracts......................................    15,964      24,722
  Physical commodities......................................        78         966
Other liabilities and accrued expenses......................     3,080       3,699
Long-term borrowings........................................    15,667      19,906
                                                              --------    --------
                                                               171,864     210,996
Commitments and contingencies
Partners' capital allocated for income taxes and potential
  withdrawals...............................................       430          74
Partners' capital...........................................     6,107       6,310
                                                              --------    --------
                                                              $178,401    $217,380
                                                              ========    ========
</TABLE>
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
                                       F-4
<PAGE>   186
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN PARTNERS' CAPITAL
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                              -----------------------------
                                                               1996       1997       1998
                                                               ----       ----       ----
                                                                      (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
Partners' capital, beginning of year........................  $ 4,905    $ 5,309    $ 6,107
Additions:
  Net earnings..............................................    2,399      2,746      2,428
  Capital contributions.....................................        4         89          9
                                                              -------    -------    -------
          Total additions...................................    2,403      2,835      2,437
Deductions:
  Returns on capital and certain distributions to
     partners...............................................     (473)      (557)      (619)
  Termination of the Profit Participation Plans.............       --         --       (368)
  Transfers to partners' capital allocated for income taxes
     and potential withdrawals, net.........................   (1,526)    (1,480)    (1,247)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
          Total deductions..................................   (1,999)    (2,037)    (2,234)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Partners' capital, end of year..............................  $ 5,309    $ 6,107    $ 6,310
                                                              =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
                                       F-5
<PAGE>   187
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                              -------------------------------
                                                                1996       1997        1998
                                                                ----       ----        ----
                                                                       (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>        <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net earnings..............................................  $  2,399    $ 2,746    $  2,428
  Non-cash items included in net earnings:
    Depreciation and amortization...........................       172        178         242
    Deferred income taxes...................................        85         32          23
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
    Cash and securities segregated in compliance with U.S.
     federal and other regulations..........................    (1,445)      (670)     (2,984)
    Net receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing
     organizations..........................................       169     (1,599)       (789)
    Net payables to customers and counterparties............     4,279      2,339       8,116
    Securities borrowed, net................................   (17,075)    (8,124)    (14,610)
    Financial instruments owned, at fair value..............    (9,415)    (7,439)        148
    Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at
     fair value.............................................     5,276     11,702       7,559
    Other, net..............................................       926        905         (71)
                                                              --------    -------    --------
      Net cash (used for)/provided by operating
       activities...........................................   (14,629)        70          62
                                                              --------    -------    --------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Property, leasehold improvements and equipment............      (258)      (259)       (476)
  Financial instruments owned, at fair value................       115       (360)       (180)
  Acquisitions, net of cash acquired........................       (75)       (74)         --
                                                              --------    -------    --------
      Net cash used for investing activities................      (218)      (693)       (656)
                                                              --------    -------    --------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Short-term borrowings, net................................       391      1,082       2,193
  Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, net.......    16,012     (4,717)     (5,909)
  Issuance of long-term borrowings..........................     5,172      7,734      10,527
  Repayment of long-term borrowings.........................    (3,986)    (1,855)     (2,058)
  Capital contributions.....................................         4         89           9
  Returns on capital and certain distributions to
    partners................................................      (473)      (557)       (619)
  Termination of the Profit Participation Plans.............        --         --        (368)
  Partners' capital allocated for income taxes and potential
    withdrawals.............................................    (1,017)    (2,034)     (1,673)
                                                              --------    -------    --------
      Net cash provided by/(used for) financing
       activities...........................................    16,103       (258)      2,102
                                                              --------    -------    --------
  Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents......     1,256       (881)      1,508
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year................       953      2,209       1,328
                                                              --------    -------    --------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year......................  $  2,209    $ 1,328    $  2,836
                                                              ========    =======    ========
</TABLE>
 
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:
 
Cash payments for interest approximated the related expense for each of the
fiscal periods presented. Payments of income taxes were not material.
 
A zero coupon bond of $32 million representing a portion of the acquisition
price of CIN Management Limited was recorded on the consolidated statement of
financial condition as of November 1996 and was excluded from the consolidated
statement of cash flows as it represented a non-cash item.
 
An increase in total assets and liabilities of $11.64 billion related to the
provisions of SFAS No. 125 that were deferred under SFAS No. 127 was excluded
from the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended November 1998
as it represented a non-cash item.
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
                                       F-6
<PAGE>   188
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1.  DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("Group
L.P."), together with its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, the "Firm"),
is a global investment banking and securities firm that provides a wide range of
services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base.
 
     The Firm's activities are divided into three principal business lines:
 
     - Investment Banking, which includes financial advisory services and
       underwriting;
 
     - Trading and Principal Investments, which includes fixed income, currency
       and commodities ("FICC"), equities and principal investments (principal
       investments reflect primarily the Firm's investments in its merchant
       banking funds); and
 
     - Asset Management and Securities Services, which includes asset
       management, securities services and commissions.
 
NOTE 2.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Group L.P.
and its U.S. and international subsidiaries including Goldman, Sachs & Co.
("GS&Co.") and J. Aron & Company in New York, Goldman Sachs International
("GSI") in London and Goldman Sachs (Japan) Ltd. ("GSJL") in Tokyo. Certain
reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current
presentation.
 
     These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles that require management to make
estimates and assumptions regarding trading inventory valuations, partner
retirements, the outcome of pending litigation and other matters that affect the
consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. These estimates and
assumptions are based on judgment and available information and, consequently,
actual results could be materially different from these estimates.
 
     Unless otherwise stated herein, all references to 1996, 1997 and 1998 refer
to the Firm's fiscal year ended, or the date, as the context requires, November
29, 1996, November 28, 1997 and November 27, 1998, respectively.
 
  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
     The Firm defines cash equivalents as highly liquid overnight deposits held
in the ordinary course of business.
 
  REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS AND COLLATERALIZED FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
 
     Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under
agreements to repurchase, principally U.S. government, federal agency and
investment-grade foreign sovereign obligations, represent short-term
collateralized financing transactions and are carried at their contractual
amounts plus accrued interest. These amounts are presented on a net-by-
counterparty basis, where management believes a legal right of setoff exists
under an enforceable master netting agreement. The Firm takes possession of
securities purchased under agreements to resell, monitors the market value of
the underlying securities on a daily basis and obtains additional collateral as
appropriate.
 
                                       F-7
<PAGE>   189
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Securities borrowed and loaned are recorded on the statements of financial
condition based on the amount of cash collateral advanced or received. These
transactions are generally collateralized by either cash, securities or letters
of credit. The Firm takes possession of securities borrowed, monitors the market
value of securities loaned and obtains additional collateral as appropriate.
Income or expense is recognized as interest over the life of the transaction.
 
  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     Gains and losses on financial instruments and commission income and related
expenses are recorded on a trade date basis in the consolidated statements of
earnings. For purposes of the consolidated statements of financial condition
only, purchases and sales of financial instruments, including agency
transactions, are generally recorded on a settlement date basis. Recording such
transactions on a trade date basis would not result in a material adjustment to
the consolidated statements of financial condition.
 
     Substantially all financial instruments used in the Firm's trading and
non-trading activities are carried at fair value or amounts that approximate
fair value and unrealized gains and losses are recognized in earnings. Fair
value is based generally on listed market prices or broker or dealer price
quotations. To the extent that prices are not readily available, fair value is
based on either internal valuation models or management's estimate of amounts
that could be realized under current market conditions, assuming an orderly
liquidation over a reasonable period of time. Certain over-the-counter ("OTC")
derivative instruments are valued using pricing models that consider, among
other factors, current and contractual market prices, time value, and yield
curve and/or volatility factors of the underlying positions. The fair value of
the Firm's trading and non-trading assets and liabilities is discussed further
in Notes 3, 4 and 5.
 
  PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS
 
     Principal investments are carried at fair value, generally as evidenced by
quoted market prices or by comparable substantial third-party transactions.
Where fair value is not readily ascertainable, principal investments are
recorded at cost or management's estimate of the realizable value.
 
     The Firm is entitled to receive merchant banking overrides (i.e., an
increased share of a fund's income and gains) when the return on the fund's
investments exceeds certain threshold returns. Overrides are based on investment
performance over the life of each merchant banking fund, and future investment
underperformance may require amounts previously distributed to the Firm to be
returned to the funds. Accordingly, overrides are recognized in earnings only
when management determines that the probability of return is remote. Overrides
are included in "Asset Management and Securities Services" on the consolidated
statements of earnings.
 
  DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS
 
     Derivatives used for trading purposes are reported at fair value and are
included in "Derivative contracts" on the consolidated statements of financial
condition. Gains and losses on derivatives used for trading purposes are
included in "Trading and Principal Investments" on the consolidated statements
of earnings.
 
     Derivatives used for non-trading purposes include interest rate futures
contracts and interest rate and currency swap agreements, which are primarily
utilized to convert a substantial portion of the Firm's fixed rate debt into
U.S. dollar-based floating rate obligations. Gains and losses on
 
                                       F-8
<PAGE>   190
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
these transactions are generally deferred and recognized as adjustments to
interest expense over the life of the derivative contract. Gains and losses
resulting from the early termination of derivatives used for non-trading
purposes are generally deferred and recognized over the remaining life of the
underlying debt. If the underlying debt is terminated prior to its stated
maturity, gains and losses on these transactions, including the associated
hedges, are recognized in earnings immediately.
 
     Derivatives are reported on a net-by-counterparty basis on the consolidated
statements of financial condition where management believes a legal right of
setoff exists under an enforceable master netting agreement.
 
  PROPERTY, LEASEHOLD IMPROVEMENTS AND EQUIPMENT
 
     Depreciation and amortization generally are computed using accelerated cost
recovery methods for all property and equipment and for leasehold improvements
where the term of the lease is greater than the economic useful life of the
asset. All other leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis
over the term of the lease.
 
  GOODWILL
 
     The cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair value of net assets
acquired at acquisition date is recorded as goodwill and amortized over periods
of 15 to 25 years on a straight-line basis.
 
  PROVISION FOR TAXES
 
     The Firm accounts for income taxes incurred by its corporate subsidiaries
in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 109,
"Accounting for Income Taxes". The consolidated statements of earnings for the
periods presented include a provision for, or benefit from, income taxes on
income earned, or losses incurred, by Group L.P. and its subsidiaries including
a provision for, or benefit from, unincorporated business tax on income earned,
or losses incurred, by Group L.P. and its subsidiaries conducting business in
New York City. No additional income tax provision is required in the
consolidated statements of earnings because Group L.P. is a partnership and the
remaining tax effects accrue directly to its partners.
 
  FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
 
     Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional currency is other
than the U.S. dollar are translated using currency exchange rates prevailing at
the end of the period presented, while revenues and expenses are translated
using average exchange rates during the period. Gains or losses resulting from
the translation of foreign currency financial statements are recorded as
cumulative translation adjustments, and are included as a component of
"Partners' capital allocated for income taxes and potential withdrawals" on the
consolidated statements of financial condition. Gains or losses resulting from
foreign exchange transactions are recorded in earnings.
 
  INVESTMENT BANKING
 
     Underwriting revenues and fees from mergers and acquisitions and other
corporate finance advisory assignments are recorded when the underlying
transaction is completed under the terms of the engagement. Syndicate expenses
related to securities offerings in which the Firm acts as an underwriter or
agent are deferred until the related revenue is recognized.
 
                                       F-9
<PAGE>   191
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS
 
     In June 1996, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS
No. 125, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
Extinguishments of Liabilities", effective for transactions occurring after
December 31, 1996. SFAS No. 125 establishes standards for distinguishing
transfers of financial assets that are accounted for as sales from transfers
that are accounted for as secured borrowings.
 
     The provisions of SFAS No. 125 relating to repurchase agreements,
securities lending transactions and other similar transactions were deferred by
the provisions of SFAS No. 127, "Deferral of the Effective Date of Certain
Provisions of FASB Statement No. 125", and became effective for transactions
entered into after December 31, 1997. This Statement requires that the
collateral obtained in certain types of secured lending transactions be recorded
on the balance sheet with a corresponding liability reflecting the obligation to
return such collateral to its owner. Effective January 1, 1998, the Firm adopted
the provisions of SFAS No. 125 that were deferred by SFAS No. 127. The adoption
of this standard increased the Firm's total assets and liabilities by $11.64
billion as of November 1998.
 
     In February 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 128, "Earnings Per Share"
("EPS"), effective for periods ending after December 15, 1997, with restatement
required for all prior periods. SFAS No. 128 establishes new standards for
computing and presenting EPS. This Statement replaces primary and fully diluted
EPS with "basic EPS", which excludes dilution, and "diluted EPS", which includes
the effect of all potentially dilutive common shares and other dilutive
securities. Because the Firm has not historically reported EPS, this Statement
will have no impact on the Firm's historical financial statements. This
Statement will, however, apply to financial statements of the Firm prepared
after its common stock offering.
 
     In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive
Income", effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1997, with
reclassification of earlier periods required for comparative purposes. SFAS No.
130 establishes standards for the reporting and presentation of comprehensive
income and its components in the financial statements. The Firm intends to adopt
this standard in the first quarter of fiscal 1999. This Statement is limited to
issues of reporting and presentation and, therefore, will not affect the Firm's
results of operations or financial condition.
 
     In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of
an Enterprise and Related Information", effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 1997, with reclassification of earlier periods required for
comparative purposes. SFAS No. 131 establishes the criteria for determining an
operating segment and establishes the disclosure requirements for reporting
information about operating segments. The Firm intends to adopt this standard at
the end of fiscal 1999. This Statement is limited to issues of reporting and
presentation and, therefore, will not affect the Firm's results of operations or
financial condition.
 
     In February 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 132, "Employers' Disclosures
about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits", effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1997, with restatement of disclosures for earlier
periods required for comparative purposes. SFAS No. 132 revises certain
employers' disclosures about pension and other post-retirement benefit plans.
The Firm intends to adopt this standard at the end of fiscal 1999. This
Statement is limited to issues of reporting and presentation and, therefore,
will not affect the Firm's results of operations or financial condition.
 
     In March 1998, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of Position ("SOP")
No. 98-1, "Accounting for
                                      F-10
<PAGE>   192
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use",
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1998. SOP No. 98-1
requires that certain costs of computer software developed or obtained for
internal use be capitalized and amortized over the useful life of the related
software. The Firm currently expenses the cost of all software development in
the period in which it is incurred. The Firm intends to adopt this Statement in
fiscal 2000 and is currently assessing its effect.
 
     In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities", effective for fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 1999. SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for
derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts (collectively referred to as derivatives), and for hedging
activities. This Statement requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as
either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial condition and measure
those instruments at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of
a derivative instrument depends on its intended use and the resulting
designation. The Firm intends to adopt this standard in fiscal 2000 and is
currently assessing its effect.
 
NOTE 3.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     Financial instruments, including both cash instruments and derivatives, are
used to manage market risk, facilitate customer transactions, engage in trading
transactions and meet financing objectives. These instruments can be either
executed on an exchange or negotiated in the OTC market.
 
     Transactions involving financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased,
entail an obligation to purchase a financial instrument at a future date. The
Firm may incur a loss if the market value of the financial instrument
subsequently increases prior to the purchase of the instrument.
 
  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     Substantially all of the Firm's assets and liabilities are carried at fair
value or amounts that approximate fair value.
 
     Trading assets and liabilities, including derivative contracts used for
trading purposes, are carried at fair value and reported as financial
instruments owned and financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased on the
consolidated statements of financial condition. Non-trading assets and
liabilities are carried at fair value or amounts that approximate fair value.
 
     Non-trading assets include cash and cash equivalents, cash and securities
segregated in compliance with U.S. federal and other regulations, receivables
from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, receivables from customers and
counterparties, securities borrowed, securities purchased under agreements to
resell, right to receive securities and certain investments, primarily those
made in connection with the Firm's merchant banking activities.
 
     Non-trading liabilities include short-term borrowings, payables to brokers,
dealers and clearing organizations, payables to customers and counterparties,
securities loaned, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, obligation to
return securities, other liabilities and accrued expenses and long-term
borrowings. Fair value of the Firm's long-term borrowings and associated hedges
is discussed in Note 5.
 
                                      F-11
<PAGE>   193
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  TRADING AND PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS
 
     The Firm's Trading and Principal Investments business facilitates customer
transactions and takes proprietary positions through market-making in and
trading of securities, currencies, commodities and swaps and other derivatives.
Derivative financial instruments are often used to hedge cash instruments or
other derivative financial instruments as an integral part of the Firm's
strategies. As a result, it is necessary to view the results of any activity on
a fully-integrated basis, including cash positions, the effect of related
derivatives and the financing of the underlying positions.
 
     Net revenues represent total revenues less allocations of interest expense
to specific securities, commodities and other positions in relation to the level
of financing incurred by each. The following table sets forth the net revenues
of the Firm's Trading and Principal Investments business:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                         --------------------------
                                                          1996      1997      1998
                                                          ----      ----      ----
                                                               (in millions)
<S>                                                      <C>       <C>       <C>
FICC...................................................  $1,749    $2,055    $1,438
Equities...............................................     730       573       795
Principal investments..................................     214       298       146
                                                         ------    ------    ------
Total Trading and Principal Investments................  $2,693    $2,926    $2,379
                                                         ======    ======    ======
</TABLE>
 
  RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     The Firm seeks to monitor and control its risk exposure through a variety
of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational and legal reporting
systems for individual entities and the Firm as a whole. Management believes
that it has effective procedures for evaluating and managing the market, credit
and other risks to which it is exposed. The Management Committee, the Firm's
primary decision-making body, determines (both directly and through delegated
authority) the types of business in which the Firm engages, approves guidelines
for accepting customers for all product lines, outlines the terms under which
customer business is conducted and establishes the parameters for the risks that
the Firm is willing to undertake in its business.
 
     MARKET RISK.  The Firmwide Risk Committee, which reports to senior
management and meets weekly, is responsible for managing and monitoring all of
the Firm's risk exposures. In addition, the Firm maintains segregation of
duties, with credit review and risk-monitoring functions performed by groups
that are independent from revenue-producing departments.
 
     The potential for changes in the market value of the Firm's trading
positions is referred to as "market risk". The Firm's trading positions result
from underwriting, market-making and proprietary trading activities.
 
     The broadly defined categories of market risk include exposures to interest
rates, currency rates, equity prices and commodity prices.
 
- - Interest rate risks primarily result from exposures to changes in the level,
  slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates,
  mortgage prepayment speeds and credit spreads.
 
- - Currency rate risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward
  prices and volatilities of currency rates.
 
                                      F-12
<PAGE>   194
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
- - Equity price risks result from exposures to changes in prices and volatilities
  of individual equities, equity baskets and equity indices.
 
- - Commodity price risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward
  prices and volatilities of commodities, such as electricity, natural gas,
  crude oil, petroleum products and precious and base metals.
 
     These risk exposures are managed through diversification, by controlling
position sizes and by establishing offsetting hedges in related securities or
derivatives. For example, the Firm may hedge a portfolio of common stock by
taking an offsetting position in a related equity-index futures contract. The
ability to manage these exposures may, however, be limited by adverse changes in
the liquidity of the security or the related hedge instrument and in the
correlation of price movements between the security and the related hedge
instrument.
 
     CREDIT RISK.  Credit risk represents the loss that the Firm would incur if
a counterparty or issuer of securities or other instruments it holds fails to
perform its contractual obligations to the Firm. To reduce its credit exposures,
the Firm seeks to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit
the Firm to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. The Firm
does not take into account any such agreements when calculating credit risk,
however, unless management believes a legal right of setoff exists under an
enforceable master netting agreement.
 
     Credit concentrations may arise from trading, underwriting and securities
borrowing activities and may be impacted by changes in economic, industry or
political factors. The Firm's concentration of credit risk is monitored actively
by the Credit Policy Committee. As of November 1998, U.S. government and federal
agency obligations represented 7% of the Firm's total assets. In addition, most
of the Firm's securities purchased under agreements to resell are collateralized
by U.S. government, federal agency and sovereign obligations.
 
  DERIVATIVE ACTIVITIES
 
     Most of the Firm's derivative transactions are entered into for trading
purposes. The Firm uses derivatives in its trading activities to facilitate
customer transactions, to take proprietary positions and as a means of risk
management. The Firm also enters into non-trading derivative contracts to manage
the interest rate and currency exposure on its long-term borrowings. Non-
trading derivatives related to the Firm's long-term borrowings are discussed in
Note 5.
 
     Derivative contracts are financial instruments, such as futures, forwards,
swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from underlying assets,
indices, reference rates or a combination of these factors. Derivatives may
involve future commitments to purchase or sell financial instruments or
commodities, or to exchange currency or interest payment streams. The amounts
exchanged are based on the specific terms of the contract with reference to
specified rates, securities, commodities or indices.
 
     Derivative contracts exclude certain cash instruments, such as
mortgage-backed securities, interest-only and principal-only obligations and
indexed debt instruments, that derive their values or contractually required
cash flows from the price of some other security or index. Derivatives also
exclude option features that are embedded in cash instruments, such as the
conversion features and call provisions embedded in bonds. The Firm has elected
to include commodity-related contracts in its derivative disclosure, although
not required to do so, as these contracts may be settled in cash or are readily
convertible into cash.
 
                                      F-13
<PAGE>   195
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The gross notional (or contractual) amounts of derivative financial
instruments represent the volume of these transactions and not the amounts
potentially subject to market risk. In addition, measurement of market risk is
meaningful only when all related and offsetting transactions are taken into
consideration. Gross notional (or contractual) amounts of derivative financial
instruments used for trading purposes with off-balance-sheet market risk are set
forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                             ----------------------
                                                               1997         1998
                                                               ----         ----
                                                                 (in millions)
<S>                                                          <C>         <C>
INTEREST RATE RISK:
Financial futures and forward settlement contracts.........  $334,916    $  406,302
Swap agreements............................................   918,067     1,848,977
Written option contracts...................................   351,359       423,561
 
EQUITY PRICE RISK:
Financial futures and forward settlement contracts.........     7,457         7,405
Swap agreements............................................     1,993         2,752
Written option contracts...................................    51,916        54,856
 
CURRENCY AND COMMODITY PRICE RISK:
Financial futures and forward settlement contracts.........   355,882       420,138
Swap agreements............................................    32,355        51,502
Written option contracts...................................   179,481       183,929
</TABLE>
 
     Market risk on purchased option contracts is limited to the market value of
the option; therefore, purchased option contracts have no off-balance-sheet
market risk. The gross notional (or contractual) amounts of purchased option
contracts used for trading purposes are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                              --------------------
                                                                1997        1998
                                                                ----        ----
                                                                 (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
PURCHASED OPTION CONTRACTS:
Interest rate...............................................  $301,685    $509,770
Equity......................................................    24,021      59,571
Currency and commodity......................................   180,859     186,748
</TABLE>
 
     The Firm utilizes replacement cost as its measure of derivative credit
risk. Replacement cost, as reported in financial instruments owned, at fair
value on the consolidated statements of financial condition, represents amounts
receivable from various counterparties, net of any unrealized losses owed where
management believes a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable master
netting agreement. Replacement cost for purchased option contracts is the market
value of the contract. The Firm controls its credit risk through an established
credit approval process, by monitoring counterparty limits, obtaining collateral
where appropriate and, in some cases, using legally enforceable master netting
agreements.
 
                                      F-14
<PAGE>   196
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The fair value of derivative financial instruments used for trading
purposes, computed in accordance with the Firm's netting policy, is set forth
below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                           ------------------------------------------------
                                                                    1997                      1998
                                                           ----------------------    ----------------------
                                                           ASSETS     LIABILITIES    ASSETS     LIABILITIES
                                                           -------    -----------    -------    -----------
                                                                            (in millions)
<S>                                                        <C>        <C>            <C>        <C>
PERIOD END:
Forward settlement contracts.............................  $ 3,634      $ 3,436      $ 4,061      $ 4,201
Swap agreements..........................................    4,269        5,358       10,000       11,475
Option contracts.........................................    5,787        7,166        7,140        9,038
                                                           -------      -------      -------      -------
Total....................................................  $13,690      $15,960      $21,201      $24,714
                                                           =======      =======      =======      =======
MONTHLY AVERAGE:
Forward settlement contracts.............................  $ 3,351      $ 3,162      $ 4,326      $ 3,979
Swap agreements..........................................    3,397        4,020        7,340        8,158
Option contracts.........................................    4,511        5,059        6,696        8,958
                                                           -------      -------      -------      -------
Total....................................................  $11,259      $12,241      $18,362      $21,095
                                                           =======      =======      =======      =======
</TABLE>
 
NOTE 4.  SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
 
     The Firm obtains secured short-term financing principally through the use
of repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements, collateralized
mainly by U.S. government, federal agency, investment grade foreign sovereign
obligations and equity securities. The Firm obtains unsecured short-term
borrowings through issuance of commercial paper, promissory notes and bank
loans. The carrying value of these short-term obligations approximates fair
value due to their short-term nature.
 
     Short-term borrowings are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                         ------------------
                                                          1997       1998
                                                          ----       ----
                                                           (in millions)
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>
Commercial paper.......................................  $ 4,468    $10,008
Promissory notes(1)....................................   10,411     10,763
Bank loans and other(1)................................    6,129      6,659
                                                         -------    -------
Total(2)...............................................  $21,008    $27,430
                                                         =======    =======
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) As of November 1997 and November 1998, short-term borrowings included $2,454
    million and $2,955 million of long-term borrowings maturing within one year,
    respectively.
 
(2) Weighted average interest rates for total short-term borrowings, including
    commercial paper, were 5.43% as of November 1997 and 5.19% as of November
    1998.
 
     The Firm maintains unencumbered securities with a market value in excess of
all uncollateralized short-term borrowings.
 
                                      F-15
<PAGE>   197
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 5.  LONG-TERM BORROWINGS
 
     The Firm's long-term borrowings are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                         -------------------
                                                           1997       1998
                                                           ----       ----
                                                            (in millions)
<S>                                                      <C>         <C>
Fixed-rate obligations(1)
  U.S. dollar denominated..............................  $ 5,217     $ 5,260
  Non-U.S. dollar denominated..........................    1,556       2,066
Floating-rate obligations(2)
  U.S. dollar denominated..............................    8,342      11,858
  Non-U.S. dollar denominated..........................      552         722
                                                         -------     -------
Total long-term borrowings(3)..........................  $15,667     $19,906
                                                         =======     =======
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Interest rate ranges for U.S. dollar and non-U.S. dollar fixed rate
    obligations are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   AS OF
                                                                 NOVEMBER
                                                              ---------------
                                                               1997     1998
                                                               ----     ----
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>
U.S. dollar denominated
  High......................................................   10.10%   10.10%
  Low.......................................................    5.82     5.74
Non-U.S. dollar denominated
  High......................................................    9.51     9.51
  Low.......................................................    1.90     1.90
</TABLE>
 
(2) Floating interest rates generally are based on LIBOR, the U.S. treasury bill
    rate or the federal funds rate. Certain equity-linked and indexed
    instruments are included in floating rate obligations.
(3) Long-term borrowings bear fixed or floating interest rates and have
    maturities that range from 1 to 30 years from the date of issue.
 
     Long-term borrowings by maturity date are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                            AS OF NOVEMBER 1997               AS OF NOVEMBER 1998
                       ------------------------------    ------------------------------
                        U.S.      NON-U.S.                U.S.      NON-U.S.
                       DOLLAR      DOLLAR      TOTAL     DOLLAR      DOLLAR      TOTAL
                       ------     --------     -----     ------     --------     -----
                                                (in millions)
<S>                    <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>
MATURITY DATES:
1998.................  $ 1,159     $  135     $ 1,294    $    --     $   --     $    --
1999.................    2,436        451       2,887      2,443        199       2,642
2000.................    2,544        263       2,807      4,293        272       4,565
2001.................      971        142       1,113      2,261        148       2,409
2002.................    1,376        281       1,657      1,669        265       1,934
2003.................      941        109       1,050      1,409        412       1,821
2004-24..............    4,132        727       4,859      5,043      1,492       6,535
                       -------     ------     -------    -------     ------     -------
Total................  $13,559     $2,108     $15,667    $17,118     $2,788     $19,906
                       =======     ======     =======    =======     ======     =======
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-16
<PAGE>   198
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The Firm enters into non-trading derivative contracts, such as interest
rate and currency swap agreements, to effectively convert a substantial portion
of its fixed rate long-term borrowings into U.S. dollar-based floating rate
obligations. Accordingly, the aggregate carrying value of these long-term
borrowings and related hedges approximates fair value. The effective weighted
average interest rates for long-term borrowings, after hedging activities, are
set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             AS OF              AS OF
                                         NOVEMBER 1997      NOVEMBER 1998
                                        ---------------    ----------------
                                        AMOUNT     RATE    AMOUNT     RATE
                                        ------     ----    ------     ----
                                                  ($ in millions)
<S>                                     <C>        <C>     <C>        <C>
Long-term borrowings:
Fixed-rate obligations................  $   291    7.76%   $   222     8.09%
Floating-rate obligations.............   15,376    5.84     19,684     5.63
                                        -------            -------
          Total long-term
            borrowings................  $15,667    5.88    $19,906     5.66
                                        =======            =======
</TABLE>
 
     The notional amounts, fair value and carrying value of the related swap
agreements used for non-trading purposes are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                           --------------
                                                           1997       1998
                                                           ----       ----
                                                            (in millions)
<S>                                                      <C>         <C>
Notional amount........................................   $8,708     $10,206
</TABLE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      AS OF NOVEMBER
                                      -----------------------------------------------
                                               1997                     1998
                                      ----------------------    ---------------------
                                      ASSETS     LIABILITIES    ASSETS    LIABILITIES
                                      ------     -----------    ------    -----------
                                                       (in millions)
<S>                                   <C>        <C>            <C>       <C>
Fair value..........................   $212          $4          $519         $7
Carrying value......................     98           4            98          8
</TABLE>
 
NOTE 6.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
  LITIGATION
 
     The Firm is involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and arbitration
proceedings concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of its
businesses. Management believes, based on currently available information, that
the results of such proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material
adverse effect on the Firm's financial condition, but might be material to the
Firm's operating results for any particular period, depending, in part, upon the
operating results for such period.
 
  LEASES
 
     The Firm has obligations under long-term non-cancelable lease agreements,
principally for office space, expiring on various dates through 2016. Certain
agreements are subject to periodic escalation charges for increases in real
estate taxes and other charges. Minimum rental
 
                                      F-17
<PAGE>   199
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
commitments, net of minimum sublease rentals, under non-cancelable leases for
1999 and the succeeding four years and rent charged to operating expense for the
last three years are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  (in millions)
<S>                                               <C>
MINIMUM RENTAL COMMITMENTS:
1999..........................................       $  142
2000..........................................          139
2001..........................................          139
2002..........................................          136
2003..........................................          128
Thereafter....................................          860
                                                     ------
          Total...............................       $1,544
                                                     ======
 
NET RENT EXPENSE:
1996..........................................       $   83
1997..........................................           87
1998..........................................          104
</TABLE>
 
  OTHER COMMITMENTS
 
     The Firm acts as an investor in merchant banking transactions which
includes making long-term investments in equity and debt securities in privately
negotiated transactions, corporate acquisitions and real estate transactions,
and in connection with a bridge loan fund. In connection with these activities,
the Firm had commitments to invest up to $670 million and $1.39 billion in
corporate and real estate merchant banking investment and bridge loan funds as
of November 1997 and November 1998, respectively.
 
     In connection with loan origination and participation, the Firm had loan
commitments of $5.23 billion and $1.51 billion as of November 1997 and November
1998, respectively. These commitments are agreements to lend to counterparties,
have fixed termination dates and are contingent on all conditions to borrowing
set forth in the contract having been met. Since these commitments may expire
unused, the total commitment amount does not necessarily reflect the actual
future cash flow requirements.
 
     The Firm also had outstanding guarantees of $786 million and $790 million
relating to its fund management activities as of November 1997 and November
1998, respectively.
 
     The Firm had pledged securities of $23.60 billion and $22.88 billion as
collateral for securities borrowed of approximately equivalent value as of
November 1997 and November 1998, respectively.
 
     The Firm obtains letters of credit issued to counterparties by various
banks that are used in lieu of securities or cash to satisfy various collateral
and margin deposit requirements. Letters of credit outstanding were $10.13
billion and $8.81 billion as of November 1997 and November 1998, respectively.
 
NOTE 7.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
 
     The Firm sponsors various pension plans and certain other post-retirement
benefit plans, primarily health care and life insurance, which cover most
employees worldwide. The Firm also provides certain benefits to former or
inactive employees prior to retirement. Plan benefits are
 
                                      F-18
<PAGE>   200
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
primarily based on the employee's compensation and years of service. Pension
costs are determined actuarially and are funded in accordance with the Internal
Revenue Code. Plan assets are held in a trust and consist primarily of listed
stocks and U.S. bonds. A summary of these plans is set forth below:
 
  DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS
 
     The components of pension expense/(income) are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                              --------------------
                                                              1996    1997    1998
                                                              ----    ----    ----
                                                                 (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>     <C>     <C>
Service cost, benefits earned during the period.............  $ 15    $ 15    $ 14
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation...............     8      10      11
Return on plan assets.......................................   (24)    (18)    (14)
Net amortization............................................    14       4      (1)
                                                              ----    ----    ----
          Total pension expense.............................  $ 13    $ 11    $ 10
                                                              ====    ====    ====
U.S. plans..................................................  $ (1)   $ (3)   $ (3)
International plans.........................................    14      14      13
                                                              ----    ----    ----
          Total pension expense.............................  $ 13    $ 11    $ 10
                                                              ====    ====    ====
</TABLE>
 
     The weighted average assumptions used to develop net periodic pension cost
and the actuarial present value of the projected benefit obligation are set
forth below. The assumptions represent a weighted average of the assumptions
used for the U.S. and international plans and are based on the economic
environment of each applicable country.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                              --------------------
                                                              1996    1997    1998
                                                              ----    ----    ----
<S>                                                           <C>     <C>     <C>
U.S. PLANS:
Discount rate...............................................  7.50%   7.50%   7.00%
Rate of increase in future compensation levels..............  5.00    5.00    5.00
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets............  7.50    7.50    7.50
INTERNATIONAL PLANS:
Discount rate...............................................  5.70    5.70    5.00
Rate of increase in future compensation levels..............  5.30    5.30    4.75
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets............  7.00    7.00    6.00
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-19
<PAGE>   201
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The funded status of the qualified plans is set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                YEAR ENDED
                                                                 NOVEMBER
                                                              --------------
                                                              1997     1998
                                                              ----     ----
                                                              (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>      <C>
Actuarial present value of vested benefit obligation........  $(149)   $(203)
                                                              -----    -----
Accumulated benefit obligation..............................   (151)    (207)
Effect of future salary increases...........................    (16)     (21)
                                                              -----    -----
Projected benefit obligation................................   (167)    (228)
Plan assets at fair market value............................    187      208
                                                              -----    -----
Projected benefit obligation less than/(greater than) plan
  assets....................................................     20      (20)
Unrecognized net loss.......................................      2       43
Unrecognized net transition gain............................    (20)     (18)
                                                              -----    -----
Prepaid pension cost, end of year...........................  $   2    $   5
                                                              =====    =====
PREPAID PENSION COST:
U.S. plans..................................................  $   2    $   5
International plans.........................................     --       --
                                                              -----    -----
Prepaid pension cost, end of year...........................  $   2    $   5
                                                              =====    =====
</TABLE>
 
  POST-RETIREMENT PLANS
 
     The Firm has unfunded post-retirement benefit plans that provide medical
and life insurance for eligible retirees, employees and dependents. The Firm's
accrued post-retirement benefit liability was $50 million and $53 million as of
November 1997 and November 1998, respectively. The Firm's expense for these
plans was $6 million, $7 million and $6 million in the years ended 1996, 1997
and 1998, respectively.
 
  POST-EMPLOYMENT PLANS
 
     Post-employment benefits include, but are not limited to, salary
continuation, supplemental unemployment benefits, severance benefits,
disability-related benefits, and continuation of health care and life insurance
coverage provided to former or inactive employees after employment but before
retirement. The accrued but unfunded liability under the plans was $12 million
and $10 million as of November 1997 and November 1998, respectively. The Firm's
expense for these plans was $2 million in each of the fiscal years ended 1996,
1997 and 1998.
 
  DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS
 
     The Firm contributes to employer sponsored U.S. and international defined
contribution plans. The Firm's contribution to the U.S. plans was $39 million,
$44 million and $48 million for the years ended 1996, 1997 and 1998,
respectively. The Firm's contribution to the international plans was $7 million,
$14 million and $10 million for the years ended 1996, 1997 and 1998,
respectively.
 
                                      F-20
<PAGE>   202
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 8.  CAPITAL
 
  PARTNERS' CAPITAL
 
     Partners' capital includes both the general partner's and limited partners'
capital and is subject to certain withdrawal restrictions. As of November 1998,
the Firm had $6.31 billion in partners' capital. Managing directors that are
participating limited partners in Group L.P. ("PLPs") who elect to retire are
entitled to redeem their capital over a period of not less than five years
following retirement, but often reinvest a significant portion of their capital
as limited partners for longer periods. Partners' capital was reduced by $368
million in 1998 due to the termination of the Profit Participation Plans under
which certain employees received payments based on the earnings of the Firm.
Partners' capital allocated for income taxes and potential withdrawals
represents management's estimate of net amounts currently distributable,
primarily to the PLPs, under the Partnership Agreement, for items including,
among other things, income taxes and capital withdrawals.
 
     Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. ("SBCM"), a limited partner that had
capital invested of approximately $834 million as of November 1998, may require
Group L.P. to redeem its capital over a five-year period beginning no earlier
than 2007. Kamehameha Activities Association ("KAA"), a limited partner that had
capital invested of approximately $757 million as of November 1998, may require
Group L.P. to redeem $391 million of its capital over a five-year period
beginning no earlier than 2010 and $366 million of its capital over a five-year
period beginning no earlier than 2013.
 
     Institutional Limited Partners (other than SBCM and KAA) had aggregate
capital invested of $755 million as of November 1998. Group L.P. must repay
these Institutional Limited Partners' capital as follows: $270 million in six
equal annual installments commencing in December 2001, $257 million in March
2005, $146 million in November 2013 and $82 million in November 2023.
 
     Group L.P. may defer any required redemption of capital if the redemption
would cause a subsidiary subject to regulatory authority to be in violation of
the rules of such authority or if the withdrawal of funds to satisfy the
redemption from an unregulated subsidiary would have a material effect on such
subsidiary.
 
  REGULATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
     GS&Co. is a registered U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary, which is subject to
the Securities and Exchange Commission's "Uniform Net Capital Rule", and has
elected to compute its net capital in accordance with the "Alternative Net
Capital Requirement" of that rule. As of November 1997 and November 1998, GS&Co.
had regulatory net capital, as defined, of $1.77 billion and $3.25 billion,
respectively, which exceeded the amounts required by $1.37 billion and $2.70
billion, respectively.
 
     GSI, a registered U.K. broker-dealer and subsidiary of Group L.P., is
subject to the capital requirements of the Securities and Futures Authority
Limited and GSJL, a Tokyo-based broker-dealer, is subject to the capital
requirements of the Japanese Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervisory
Agency. As of November 1997 and November 1998, GSI and GSJL were in compliance
with their local capital adequacy requirements.
 
     Certain other subsidiaries of the Firm are also subject to capital adequacy
requirements promulgated by authorities of the countries in which they operate.
As of November 1997 and November 1998, these subsidiaries were in compliance
with their local capital adequacy requirements.
 
                                      F-21
<PAGE>   203
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 9.  GEOGRAPHIC DATA
 
     The Firm's activities as an investment banking and securities firm
constitute a single business segment pursuant to SFAS No. 14 "Financial
Reporting for Segments of a Business Enterprise".
 
     Due to the highly integrated nature of international financial markets, the
Firm manages its business based on the profitability of the enterprise as a
whole, not by geographic region. Accordingly, management believes that
profitability by geographic region is not necessarily meaningful.
 
     The total revenues, net revenues, pre-tax earnings and identifiable assets
of Group L.P. and its consolidated subsidiaries by geographic region are
summarized below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                      -----------------------------
                                                       1996       1997       1998
                                                       ----       ----       ----
                                                              (in millions)
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>        <C>
TOTAL REVENUES:
Americas(1).........................................  $12,864    $15,091    $15,972
Europe..............................................    3,762      4,463      5,156
Asia................................................      663        879      1,350
                                                      -------    -------    -------
Total...............................................  $17,289    $20,433    $22,478
                                                      =======    =======    =======
 
NET REVENUES:
Americas(1).........................................  $ 4,397    $ 5,104    $ 5,436
Europe..............................................    1,355      1,739      2,180
Asia................................................      377        604        904
                                                      -------    -------    -------
Total...............................................  $ 6,129    $ 7,447    $ 8,520
                                                      =======    =======    =======
 
PRE-TAX EARNINGS:
Americas(1).........................................  $ 1,963    $ 2,061    $ 1,527
Europe..............................................      536        683        913
Asia................................................      107        270        481
                                                      -------    -------    -------
Total...............................................  $ 2,606    $ 3,014    $ 2,921
                                                      =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-22
<PAGE>   204
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                       -----------------------------------
                                                         1996         1997         1998
                                                         ----         ----         ----
                                                                  (in millions)
<S>                                                    <C>          <C>          <C>
IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS:
Americas(1)..........................................  $ 171,345    $ 206,312    $ 229,412
Europe...............................................     62,172       80,551      106,721
Asia.................................................      6,894       13,240       19,883
Eliminations.........................................    (88,365)    (121,702)    (138,636)
                                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
Total................................................  $ 152,046    $ 178,401    $ 217,380
                                                       =========    =========    =========
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Americas principally represents the United States.
 
NOTE 10.  QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1996
                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                        1ST       2ND       3RD       4TH
                                                        ---       ---       ---       ---
                                                                  (in millions)
<S>                                                    <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Total revenues.......................................  $4,030    $4,656    $4,313    $4,290
Interest expense, principally on short-term
  funding............................................   2,566     2,986     2,845     2,763
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
Revenues, net of interest expense....................   1,464     1,670     1,468     1,527
Operating expenses...................................     899       961       879       784
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
Pre-tax earnings.....................................     565       709       589       743
Provision for taxes..................................      21        23        31       132
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
     Net earnings....................................  $  544    $  686    $  558    $  611
                                                       ======    ======    ======    ======
</TABLE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1997
                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                        1ST       2ND       3RD       4TH
                                                        ---       ---       ---       ---
                                                                  (in millions)
<S>                                                    <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Total revenues.......................................  $4,932    $4,608    $5,957    $4,936
Interest expense, principally on short-term
  funding............................................   2,975     2,934     3,727     3,350
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
Revenues, net of interest expense....................   1,957     1,674     2,230     1,586
Operating expenses...................................   1,052     1,064     1,298     1,019
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
Pre-tax earnings.....................................     905       610       932       567
Provision for taxes..................................      44        99        60        65
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
     Net earnings....................................  $  861    $  511    $  872    $  502
                                                       ======    ======    ======    ======
</TABLE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1998
                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                        1ST       2ND       3RD       4TH
                                                        ---       ---       ---       ---
                                                                  (in millions)
<S>                                                    <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Total revenues.......................................  $5,903    $6,563    $5,735    $4,277
Interest expense, principally on short-term
  funding............................................   3,431     3,574     3,591     3,362
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
Revenues, net of interest expense....................   2,472     2,989     2,144       915
Operating expenses...................................   1,450     1,952     1,389       808
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
Pre-tax earnings.....................................   1,022     1,037       755       107
Provision for taxes..................................     138       190       102        63
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
     Net earnings....................................  $  884    $  847    $  653    $   44
                                                       ======    ======    ======    ======
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-23
<PAGE>   205
 
                    REVIEW REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Partners,
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.:
 
We have reviewed the condensed consolidated statement of financial condition of
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and Subsidiaries (the "Firm") as of February 26,
1999, and the related condensed consolidated statements of earnings, and cash
flows for the three months ended February 26, 1999 and February 27, 1998 and the
related condensed consolidated statement of changes in partners' capital for the
three months ended February 26, 1999 (included on pages F-25 to F-33 of this
prospectus). These financial statements are the responsibility of the Firm's
management.
 
We conducted our review in accordance with standards established by the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants. A review of interim financial
information consists principally of applying analytical procedures to financial
data and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting
matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards, the objective of which is the
expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole.
Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
 
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should
be made to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for them
to be in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
 
New York, New York
April 9, 1999.
 
                                      F-24
<PAGE>   206
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                                                   FEBRUARY
                                                              ------------------
                                                               1998       1999
                                                              -------    -------
                                                                 (unaudited)
                                                                (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
REVENUES:
Investment banking..........................................  $  633     $  902
Trading and principal investments...........................   1,115      1,398
Asset management and securities services....................     512        543
Interest income.............................................   3,643      3,013
                                                              ------     ------
          Total revenues....................................   5,903      5,856
Interest expense, principally on short-term funding.........   3,431      2,861
                                                              ------     ------
          Revenues, net of interest expense.................   2,472      2,995
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Compensation and benefits...................................   1,100      1,275
Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees.......................      93        111
Market development..........................................      54         77
Communications and technology...............................      58         78
Depreciation and amortization...............................      42         97
Occupancy...................................................      44         78
Professional services and other.............................      59         91
                                                              ------     ------
          Total operating expenses..........................   1,450      1,807
Pre-tax earnings............................................   1,022      1,188
Provision for taxes.........................................     138        181
                                                              ------     ------
Net earnings................................................  $  884     $1,007
                                                              ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                  condensed consolidated financial statements.
                                      F-25
<PAGE>   207
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    AS OF
                                                                  FEBRUARY
                                                                    1999
                                                                -------------
                                                                 (unaudited)
                                                                (in millions)
<S>                                                             <C>
ASSETS:
Cash and cash equivalents...................................      $  3,345
Cash and securities segregated in compliance with U.S.
  federal and other regulations (principally U.S. government
  obligations)..............................................         7,361
Receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing
  organizations.............................................         4,624
Receivables from customers and counterparties...............        19,311
Securities borrowed.........................................        74,036
Securities purchased under agreements to resell.............        41,776
Right to receive securities.................................         7,280
Financial instruments owned, at fair value:
  Commercial paper, certificates of deposit and time
     deposits...............................................         1,413
  U.S. government, federal agency and sovereign
     obligations............................................        26,580
  Corporate debt............................................         9,080
  Equities and convertible debentures.......................        11,298
  State, municipal and provincial obligations...............         1,021
  Derivative contracts......................................        20,441
  Physical commodities......................................           688
Other assets................................................         2,370
                                                                  --------
                                                                  $230,624
                                                                  ========
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH:
Short-term borrowings, including commercial paper...........      $ 33,863
Payables to brokers, dealers and clearing organizations.....         1,294
Payables to customers and counterparties....................        32,143
Securities loaned...........................................        24,770
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase..............        36,906
Obligation to return securities.............................         9,078
Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair
  value:
  U.S. government, federal agency and sovereign
     obligations............................................        29,391
  Corporate debt............................................         1,579
  Equities and convertible debentures.......................         8,238
  Derivative contracts......................................        22,677
  Physical commodities......................................           267
Other liabilities and accrued expenses......................         3,022
Long-term borrowings........................................        20,405
                                                                  --------
                                                                   223,633
Commitments and contingencies
Accumulated other comprehensive income......................           (37)
Partners' capital allocated for income taxes and potential
  withdrawals...............................................           416
Partners' capital...........................................         6,612
                                                                  --------
                                                                  $230,624
                                                                  ========
</TABLE>
 
              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                  condensed consolidated financial statements.
                                      F-26
<PAGE>   208
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
        CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN PARTNERS' CAPITAL
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 PERIOD ENDED
                                                                   FEBRUARY
                                                                     1999
                                                                   --------
                                                                 (unaudited)
                                                                (in millions)
<S>                                                             <C>
Partners' capital, beginning of period......................        $6,310
Additions:
  Net earnings..............................................         1,007
  Capital contributions.....................................            48
                                                                    ------
          Total additions...................................         1,055
Deductions:
  Returns on capital and certain distributions to
     partners...............................................          (171)
  Transfers to partners' capital allocated for income taxes
     and potential withdrawals, net.........................          (582)
                                                                    ------
          Total deductions..................................          (753)
                                                                    ------
Partners' capital, end of period............................        $6,612
                                                                    ======
</TABLE>
 
              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                  condensed consolidated financial statements.
                                      F-27
<PAGE>   209
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                                                   FEBRUARY
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1998       1999
                                                              --------    -------
                                                                  (unaudited)
                                                                 (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net earnings..............................................  $    884    $ 1,007
  Non-cash items included in net earnings:
     Depreciation and amortization..........................        42         97
     Deferred income taxes..................................         8          5
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
     Cash and securities segregated in compliance with U.S.
      federal and other regulations.........................      (191)       526
     Net receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing
      organizations.........................................       233        260
     Net payables to customers and counterparties...........     1,950     (8,394)
     Securities borrowed, net...............................   (12,579)    (1,225)
     Financial instruments owned, at fair value.............   (51,461)    (2,267)
     Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at
      fair value............................................    14,601      8,205
     Other, net.............................................      (759)      (617)
                                                              --------    -------
       Net cash used for operating activities...............   (47,272)    (2,403)
  Cash flows from investing activities:
     Property, leasehold improvements and equipment.........       (63)      (103)
     Financial instruments owned, at fair value.............       (45)        58
                                                              --------    -------
       Net cash used for investing activities...............      (108)       (45)
                                                              --------    -------
  Cash flows from financing activities:
     Short-term borrowings, net.............................    11,500      2,567
     Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, net....    34,157     (3,643)
     Issuance of long-term borrowings.......................     5,630      4,468
     Repayment of long-term borrowings......................      (608)      (105)
     Capital contributions..................................         6         48
     Returns on capital and certain distributions to
      partners..............................................      (157)      (171)
     Partners' capital allocated for income taxes and
      potential withdrawals.................................      (309)      (207)
                                                              --------    -------
       Net cash provided by financing activities............    50,219      2,957
                                                              --------    -------
     Net increase in cash and cash equivalents..............     2,839        509
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period..............     1,328      2,836
                                                              --------    -------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period....................  $  4,167    $ 3,345
                                                              ========    =======
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
 
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:
 
Cash payments for interest approximated the related expense for each of the
fiscal periods presented. Payments of income taxes were not material.
 
The increases in total assets and liabilities related to the provisions of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125 that were deferred under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 127 were excluded from the
consolidated statements of cash flows as they represented non-cash items.
 
              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                  condensed consolidated financial statements.
                                      F-28
<PAGE>   210
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
              NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 
NOTE 1.  DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("Group
L.P."), together with its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, the "Firm"),
is a global investment banking and securities firm that provides a wide range of
services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base.
 
     The Firm's activities are divided into three principal business lines:
 
     - Investment Banking, which includes financial advisory services and
       underwriting;
 
     - Trading and Principal Investments, which includes fixed income, currency
       and commodities ("FICC"), equities and principal investments (principal
       investments reflect primarily the Firm's investments in its merchant
       banking funds); and
 
     - Asset Management and Securities Services, which includes asset
       management, securities services and commissions.
 
NOTE 2.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Group L.P.
and its U.S. and international subsidiaries including Goldman, Sachs & Co.
("GS&Co.") and J. Aron & Company in New York, Goldman Sachs International
("GSI") in London and Goldman Sachs (Japan) Ltd. ("GSJL") in Tokyo. The
consolidated financial statements are unaudited and should be read in
conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere in this prospectus.
 
     These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles that require management to make
estimates and assumptions regarding trading inventory valuations, partner
retirements, the outcome of pending litigation and other matters that affect the
consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. These estimates and
assumptions are based on judgment and available information and, consequently,
actual results could be materially different from these estimates.
 
     The unaudited consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments,
consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that are, in the opinion of
management, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim
periods presented. Interim period operating results may not be indicative of the
operating results for a full year.
 
     Unless otherwise stated herein, all references to February 1998 and
February 1999 refer to the Firm's fiscal quarter ended, or the date, as the
context requires, February 27, 1998 and February 26, 1999, respectively.
 
  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
     In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income", which
establishes standards for the reporting and presentation of comprehensive income
and its components in the financial statements. This Statement is effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1997 and
 
                                      F-29
<PAGE>   211
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
      NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 
was adopted by the Firm in the first quarter of 1999. The components of
comprehensive income are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                                                FEBRUARY
                                                           ------------------
                                                            1998       1999
                                                           -------    -------
                                                             (in millions)
<S>                                                        <C>        <C>
Net earnings.............................................  $  884     $1,007
Other comprehensive loss
  Foreign currency translation adjustment................     (5)        (6)
                                                           ------     ------
Total comprehensive income...............................  $  879     $1,001
                                                           ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
NOTE 3.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     Gains and losses on financial instruments and commission income and related
expenses are recorded on a trade date basis in the consolidated statements of
earnings. For purposes of the consolidated statement of financial condition
only, purchases and sales of financial instruments, including agency
transactions, are generally recorded on a settlement date basis. Recording such
transactions on a trade date basis would not result in a material adjustment to
the consolidated statement of financial condition.
 
     Substantially all financial instruments used in the Firm's trading and
non-trading activities are carried at fair value or amounts that approximate
fair value and unrealized gains and losses are recognized in earnings. Fair
value is based generally on listed market prices or broker or dealer price
quotations. To the extent that prices are not readily available, fair value is
based on either internal valuation models or management's estimate of amounts
that could be realized under current market conditions, assuming an orderly
liquidation over a reasonable period of time. Certain over-the-counter
derivative instruments are valued using pricing models that consider, among
other factors, current and contractual market prices, time value, and yield
curve and/or volatility factors of the underlying positions.
 
     The Firm's Trading and Principal Investments business facilitates customer
transactions and takes proprietary positions through market-making in and
trading of securities, currencies, commodities and swaps and other derivatives.
Derivative financial instruments are often used to hedge cash instruments or
other derivative financial instruments as an integral part of the Firm's
strategies. As a result, it is necessary to view the results of any activity on
a fully-integrated basis, including cash positions, the effect of related
derivatives and the financing of the underlying positions.
 
     Net revenues represent total revenues less allocations of interest expense
to specific securities, commodities and other positions in relation to the level
of financing incurred by each. The following table sets forth the net revenues
of the Firm's Trading and Principal Investments business:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                                                FEBRUARY
                                                           ------------------
                                                            1998       1999
                                                           -------    -------
                                                             (in millions)
<S>                                                        <C>        <C>
FICC.....................................................  $  741     $  876
Equities.................................................     365        455
Principal investments....................................      76         26
                                                           ------     ------
Total Trading and Principal Investments..................  $1,182     $1,357
                                                           ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-30
<PAGE>   212
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
      NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 
DERIVATIVE ACTIVITIES
 
     Most of the Firm's derivative transactions are entered into for trading
purposes. The Firm uses derivatives in its trading activities to facilitate
customer transactions, to take proprietary positions and as a means of risk
management. The Firm also enters into non-trading derivative contracts to manage
the interest rate and currency exposure on its long-term borrowings.
 
     Derivative contracts are financial instruments, such as futures, forwards,
swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from underlying assets,
indices, reference rates or a combination of these factors. Derivatives may
involve future commitments to purchase or sell financial instruments or
commodities, or to exchange currency or interest payment streams. The amounts
exchanged are based on the specific terms of the contract with reference to
specified rates, securities, commodities or indices.
 
     Derivative contracts exclude certain cash instruments, such as
mortgage-backed securities, interest-only and principal-only obligations and
indexed debt instruments, that derive their values or contractually required
cash flows from the price of some other security or index. Derivatives also
exclude option features that are embedded in cash instruments, such as the
conversion features and call provisions embedded in bonds. The Firm has elected
to include commodity-related contracts in its derivative disclosure, although
not required to do so, as these contracts may be settled in cash or are readily
convertible into cash.
 
     Derivatives used for trading purposes are reported at fair value and are
included in "Derivative contracts" on the consolidated statement of financial
condition. Gains and losses on derivatives used for trading purposes are
included in "Trading and Principal Investments" on the consolidated statements
of earnings.
 
     The Firm utilizes replacement cost as its measure of derivative credit
risk. Replacement cost, as reported in financial instruments owned, at fair
value on the consolidated statement of financial condition, represents amounts
receivable from various counterparties, net of any unrealized losses owed where
management believes a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable master
netting agreement. Replacement cost for purchased option contracts is the market
value of the contract. The Firm controls its credit risk through an established
credit approval process, by monitoring counterparty limits, obtaining collateral
where appropriate and, in some cases, using legally enforceable master netting
agreements.
 
     The fair value of derivative financial instruments used for trading
purposes, computed in accordance with the Firm's netting policy, is set forth
below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      AS OF
                                                                  FEBRUARY 1999
                                                              ----------------------
                                                              ASSETS     LIABILITIES
                                                              ------     -----------
                                                                  (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Forward settlement contracts................................  $ 3,991      $ 3,725
Swap agreements.............................................    9,233       10,460
Option contracts............................................    7,140        8,484
                                                              -------      -------
Total.......................................................  $20,364      $22,669
                                                              =======      =======
</TABLE>
 
     Derivatives used for non-trading purposes include interest rate futures
contracts and interest rate and currency swap agreements, which are primarily
utilized to convert a substantial portion of the Firm's fixed rate debt into
U.S. dollar-based floating rate obligations. Gains and losses on these
transactions are generally deferred and recognized as adjustments to interest
expense
 
                                      F-31
<PAGE>   213
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
      NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 
over the life of the derivative contract. Gains and losses resulting from the
early termination of derivatives used for non-trading purposes are generally
deferred and recognized over the remaining life of the underlying debt. If the
underlying debt is terminated prior to its stated maturity, gains and losses on
these transactions, including the associated hedges, are recognized in earnings
immediately. The fair value and carrying value of derivatives used for non-
trading purposes are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      AS OF
                                                                  FEBRUARY 1999
                                                              ---------------------
                                                              ASSETS    LIABILITIES
                                                              ------    -----------
                                                                  (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>
          Fair value........................................   $319         $13
          Carrying value....................................     77           8
</TABLE>
 
NOTE 4.  SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
 
     The Firm obtains secured short-term financing principally through the use
of repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements, collateralized
mainly by U.S. government, federal agency, investment grade foreign sovereign
obligations and equity securities. The Firm obtains unsecured short-term
borrowings through issuance of commercial paper, promissory notes and bank
loans. The carrying value of these short-term obligations approximates fair
value due to their short-term nature.
 
     Short-term borrowings are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  AS OF
                                                                FEBRUARY
                                                                  1999
                                                              -------------
                                                              (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>
Commercial paper............................................     $10,740
Promissory notes*...........................................      10,893
Bank loans and other*.......................................      12,230
                                                                 -------
Total.......................................................     $33,863
                                                                 =======
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
* As of February 1999, short-term borrowings included $6,285 million of
  long-term borrowings maturing within one year.
 
     The Firm maintains unencumbered securities with a market value in excess of
all uncollateralized short-term borrowings.
 
NOTE 5.  REGULATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
     GS&Co. is a registered U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary, which is subject to
the Securities and Exchange Commission's "Uniform Net Capital Rule", and has
elected to compute its net capital in accordance with the "Alternative Net
Capital Requirement" of that rule. As of February 1999, GS&Co. had regulatory
net capital, as defined, of $2.89 billion, which exceeded the amount required by
$2.40 billion.
 
     GSI, a registered U.K. broker-dealer and subsidiary of Group L.P., is
subject to the capital requirements of the Securities and Futures Authority
Limited and GSJL, a Tokyo-based broker-dealer, is subject to the capital
requirements of the Japanese Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervisory
Agency. As of February 1999, GSI and GSJL were in compliance with their local
capital adequacy requirements.
 
                                      F-32
<PAGE>   214
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
      NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 
     Certain other subsidiaries of the Firm are also subject to capital adequacy
requirements promulgated by authorities of the countries in which they operate.
As of February 1999, these subsidiaries were in compliance with their local
capital adequacy requirements.
 
NOTE 6.  CONTINGENCIES
 
     The Firm is involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and arbitration
proceedings concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of its
businesses. Management believes, based on currently available information, that
the results of such proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material
adverse effect on the Firm's financial condition, but might be material to the
Firm's operating results for any particular period, depending, in part, upon the
operating results for such period.
 
                                      F-33
<PAGE>   215
 
   
                              PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION
    
 
        PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION FOR THE INITIAL OFFERING AND SALE OF NOTES
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co., as the agent (the
"agent"), have entered into a distribution agreement with respect to the notes.
Subject to certain conditions, the agent has agreed to use its reasonable
efforts to solicit purchases of the notes. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. has the
right to accept offers to purchase notes and may reject any proposed purchase of
the notes. The agent may also reject any offer to purchase notes. The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. will pay the agent a commission on any notes sold through the
agent. The commission will range from 0.150% to 0.900% of the principal amount
of the notes, depending on the stated maturity of the notes.
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. may also sell notes to the agent who will
purchase the notes as principal for its own account. In that case, the agent
will purchase the notes at a price equal to the issue price specified in the
applicable prospectus supplement, less a discount. Unless otherwise stated in
the applicable prospectus supplement, the discount will equal the applicable
commission on an agency sale of notes with the same stated maturity.
 
     The agent may resell any notes it purchases as principal to other brokers
or dealers at a discount, which may include all or part of the discount the
agent received from The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. If all the notes are not sold
at the initial offering price, the agent may change the offering price and the
other selling terms.
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. may also sell notes directly to its
investors. No commissions will be paid on notes sold directly.
 
     The agent, whether acting as agent or principal, may be deemed to be an
"underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933. The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. has agreed to indemnify the agent against certain liabilities,
including liabilities under the Securities Act.
 
     If the agent sells notes to dealers who resell to investors and the agent
pays the dealers all or part of the discount or commission it receives from The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., those dealers may also be deemed to be "underwriters"
within the meaning of the Securities Act.
    
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. estimates that its share of the total
expenses of this offering, excluding underwriting discounts and commissions
whether paid to Goldman, Sachs & Co. or any other agent, will be approximately
$7 million.
    
     Unless otherwise indicated in the applicable prospectus supplement, the
purchase price of the notes will be required to be paid in immediately available
funds in New York City.
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. may appoint agents, other than or in addition
to Goldman, Sachs & Co., with respect to certain notes. Any other agents will be
named in the applicable prospectus supplements and those agents will enter into
the distribution agreement referred to above. The other agents may be affiliates
or customers of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and may engage in transactions
with and perform services for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. in the ordinary
course of business.
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. is a subsidiary of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Rule
2720 of the Conduct Rules of the National Association of Securities Dealers,
Inc. imposes certain requirements when an NASD member such as Goldman, Sachs &
Co. distributes an affiliated company's debt securities. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
has advised The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. that this offering will comply with
the applicable requirements of Rule 2720.
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. will not confirm initial sales to accounts over which
it exercises discretionary authority without the prior written approval of the
customer.
 
                                       U-1
<PAGE>   216
 
                     PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION FOR MARKET-MAKING
                             RESALES BY AFFILIATES
 
     This prospectus may be used by Goldman, Sachs & Co. in connection with
offers and sales of the notes in market-making transactions. In a market-making
transaction, Goldman, Sachs & Co. may resell a note it acquires from other
holders, after the original offering and sale of the note. Resales of this kind
may occur in the open market or may be privately negotiated, at prices related
to prevailing market prices at the time of resale or at negotiated prices. In
these transactions, Goldman, Sachs & Co. may act as principal or agent,
including as agent for the counterparty in a transaction in which Goldman, Sachs
& Co. acts as principal or as agent for both counterparties in a transaction in
which Goldman, Sachs & Co. does not act as principal. Goldman, Sachs & Co. may
receive compensation in the form of discounts and commissions, including from
both counterparties in some cases. Other affiliates of The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. may also engage in transactions of this kind and may use this prospectus
for this purpose.
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. does not expect to receive any proceeds from
market-making transactions. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. does not expect that
Goldman, Sachs & Co. or any other affiliate that engages in these transactions
will pay any proceeds from its market-making resales to The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc.
 
     A market-making transaction will have a settlement date later than the
original issue date of the note. Information about the trade and settlement
dates, as well as the purchase price, for a market-making transaction will be
provided to the purchaser in a separate confirmation of sale.
 
     Unless otherwise indicated in the applicable prospectus supplement or
confirmation of sale, the purchase price of the notes will be required to be
paid in immediately available funds in New York City.
 
 Unless The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. or an agent informs you in your
 confirmation of sale that your note is being purchased in its original
 offering and sale, you may assume that you are purchasing your note in a
 market-making transaction.
 
                     MATTERS RELATING TO ORIGINAL SALES AND
                             MARKET-MAKING RESALES
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. does not expect the amount of notes held, as a result
of market-making resales, by accounts over which it exercises discretionary
authority to exceed, at any time, five percent of the aggregate initial offering
price (i.e., $15 billion) of all of the Series B medium-term notes.
 
     The notes are a new issue of securities, and there will be no established
trading market for any note prior to its original issue date. The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc. does not plan to list the notes on a securities exchange. The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. has been advised by Goldman, Sachs & Co. that it
intends to make a market in the notes. However, neither Goldman, Sachs & Co. nor
any other affiliate that makes a market is obligated to do so and any of them
may stop doing so at any time without notice. No assurance can be given as to
the liquidity or trading market for the notes.
 
     In this prospectus, the terms "this offering" means the initial offering of
the notes made in connection with their original issuance. This term does not
refer to any subsequent resales of notes in market-making transactions.
 
                                       U-2
<PAGE>   217
 
- -------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------
 
     No dealer, salesperson or other person is authorized to give any
information or to represent anything not contained in this prospectus. You must
not rely on any unauthorized information or representations. This prospectus is
an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities it
describes, but only under circumstances and in jurisdictions where it is lawful
to do so. The information contained in this prospectus is current only as of its
date.
 
                               ------------------
 
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
   
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        Page
                                        ----
<S>                                     <C>
Our Business Principles...............     2
Prospectus Summary....................     3
Risk Factors..........................    11
Use of Proceeds.......................    28
Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
  Information.........................    29
Capitalization........................    36
Selected Consolidated Financial
  Data................................    38
Management's Discussion And Analysis
  of Financial Condition And Results
  of Operations.......................    40
Industry and Economic Outlook.........    65
Business..............................    68
Management............................    93
Principal Shareholders................   106
Certain Relationships and Related
  Transactions........................   108
Description of Notes We May Offer.....   113
United States Taxation................   143
Employee Retirement Income Security
  Act.................................   154
Validity of the Notes.................   154
Experts...............................   154
Available Information.................   155
Index to Consolidated Financial
  Statements..........................   F-1
Plan of Distribution..................   U-1
</TABLE>
    
 
                               ------------------
     Through and including                , 1999 (the 40th day after the date of
this prospectus), all dealers effecting transactions in these securities,
whether or not participating in this offering, may be required to deliver a
prospectus. This is in addition to the dealers' obligation to deliver a
prospectus when acting as underwriters and with respect to their unsold
allotments or subscriptions.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------
 
                                $15,000,000,000
 
                               THE GOLDMAN SACHS
                                  GROUP, INC.
 
                          Medium-Term Notes, Series B
                               ------------------
 
                              [GOLDMAN SACHS LOGO]
 
                               ------------------
                              GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
            -------------------------------------------------------
            -------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>   218
 
                                    PART II
 
                     INFORMATION NOT REQUIRED IN PROSPECTUS
 
ITEM 13.  OTHER EXPENSES OF ISSUANCE AND DISTRIBUTION
 
     The following is a statement of the expenses (all of which are estimated
other than the SEC registration fee and the NASD fees), other than underwriting
discounts and commissions, to be incurred in connection with the distribution of
the securities registered under this registration statement.
 
   
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                AMOUNT
                                                              TO BE PAID
                                                              ----------
<S>                                                           <C>
Securities and Exchange Commission registration fee.........  $4,170,000
NASD fees...................................................      30,500
Legal fees and expenses.....................................     900,000
Fees and expenses of qualification under state securities
  laws (including legal fees)...............................      10,000
Accounting fees and expenses................................     650,000
Printing fees...............................................   1,100,000
Rating agency fees..........................................     100,000
Trustee's fees and expenses.................................      10,000
Miscellaneous...............................................      29,500
                                                              ----------
          Total.............................................  $7,000,000
                                                              ==========
    
</TABLE>
 
ITEM 14.  INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
 
     Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that a
corporation may indemnify directors and officers as well as other employees and
individuals against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and
amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in
connection with any threatened, pending or completed actions, suits or
proceedings in which such person is made a party by reason of such person being
or having been a director, officer, employee of or agent to the registrant. The
statute provides that it is not exclusive of other rights to which those seeking
indemnification may be entitled under any by-law, agreement, vote of
stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise. Section 6.4 of the
registrant's by-laws provides for indemnification by the registrant of any
director or officer (as such term is defined in the by-laws) of the registrant
who is or was a director of any of its subsidiaries, is or was a member of the
Shareholders' Committee (as defined in the prospectus included in this
registration statement) acting pursuant to the shareholders' agreement (as
defined in the prospectus included in this registration statement) or, at the
request of the registrant, is or was serving as a director or officer of, or in
any other capacity for, any other enterprise, to the fullest extent permitted by
law. The by-laws also provide that the registrant shall advance expenses to a
director or officer and, if reimbursement of such expenses is demanded in
advance of the final disposition of the matter with respect to which such demand
is being made, upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director
or officer to repay such amount if it is ultimately determined that the director
or officer is not entitled to be indemnified by the registrant. To the extent
authorized from time to time by the board of directors of the registrant, the
registrant may provide to any one or more employees of the registrant, one or
more officers, employees and other agents of any subsidiary or one or more
directors, officers, employees and other agents of any other enterprise, rights
of indemnification and to receive payment or reimbursement of expenses,
including attorneys' fees, that are similar to the rights conferred in the
by-laws of the registrant on directors and officers of the registrant
                                      II-1
<PAGE>   219
 
or any subsidiary or other enterprise. The by-laws do not limit the power of the
registrant or its board of directors to provide other indemnification and
expense reimbursement rights to directors, officers, employees, agents and other
persons otherwise than pursuant to the by-laws. The registrant entered into
agreements with certain directors, officers and employees who are asked to serve
in specified capacities at subsidiaries and other entities.
 
     The registrant entered into an agreement that provides indemnification to
its directors and officers and to the directors and certain officers of the
general partner of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., members of its Management
Committee or its Partnership Committee or the former Executive Committee of The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and all other persons requested or authorized by the
registrant's board of directors or the board of directors of the general partner
of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. to take actions on behalf of the registrant,
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. or the general partner of The Goldman Sachs Group,
L.P. in connection with the plan of incorporation, this registration statement
and certain other registration statements for all losses, damages, costs and
expenses incurred by the indemnified person arising out of the relevant
registration statements or the transactions contemplated by the plan of
incorporation. This agreement is in addition to the registrant's indemnification
obligations under its by-laws.
 
     Section 102(b)(7) of the Delaware General Corporation Law permits a
corporation to provide in its certificate of incorporation that a director of
the corporation shall not be personally liable to the corporation or its
stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director,
except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the
corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or
which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) for
payments of unlawful dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions, or
(iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal
benefit. The registrant's amended and restated certificate of incorporation
provides for such limitation of liability.
 
     Policies of insurance are maintained by the registrant under which its
directors and officers are insured, within the limits and subject to the
limitations of the policies, against certain expenses in connection with the
defense of, and certain liabilities which might be imposed as a result of,
actions, suits or proceedings to which they are parties by reason of being or
having been such directors or officers.
 
     Reference is also made to Section 7 of the distribution agreement filed as
Exhibit 1.1 to the registration statement for information concerning the agent's
obligation to indemnify the registrant and its officers and directors in certain
circumstances.
 
ITEM 15.  RECENT SALES OF UNREGISTERED SECURITIES
 
     As part of the incorporation transactions, the registrant issued: (i)
shares of the registrant's common stock, par value $0.01 per share, to certain
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners of The Goldman
Sachs Group, L.P. in exchange for all of the managing directors' interests in
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and certain other entities; (ii) shares of common
stock and 12% junior subordinated debentures of the registrant to certain
retired limited partners of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. in exchange for all of
such limited partners' interests in The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and certain
other entities; (iii) shares of common stock and shares of the registrant's
nonvoting common stock, par value $0.01 per share, to Sumitomo Bank Capital
Markets, Inc.; and (iv) shares of common stock to Kamehameha Activities
Association. Also simultaneously with the registrant's common stock offering,
the registrant made awards of restricted stock units and/or options to
substantially all of its employees and made an irrevocable contribution of
common stock to a nonqualified defined contribution plan. The offering and sale
of the shares of common stock, junior subordinated debentures and nonvoting
common stock to the managing directors who were profit participating limited
partners, retired limited partners, Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and
Kamehameha
 
                                      II-2
<PAGE>   220
 
Activities Association were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, because the offering and sale (i) was made in reliance on the exemption
provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Rule 506 thereunder
for transactions by an issuer not involving a public offering (with the
recipients representing their intentions to acquire the securities for their own
accounts and not with a view to the distribution thereof and acknowledging that
the securities were issued in a transaction not registered under the Securities
Act of 1933) or (ii) was made outside the United States pursuant to Regulation S
under the Securities Act of 1933 to persons who were not citizens or residents
of the United States. The foregoing employee awards and contribution of common
stock were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 because the awards
and contribution either did not involve an offer or sale for purposes of Section
2(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933, in reliance on the fact that the awards
were made to a relatively broad class of employees who did not provide any
consideration in exchange for their awards, or were offered and sold in
transactions not involving a public offering, exempt from registration under the
Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to Section 4(2) and in compliance with Rule 506
thereunder.
 
     On April 13, 1999, the registrant entered into an arrangement with a group
of 10 employees pursuant to which a portion of a performance-based bonus that is
payable to such employees in 2002 will be paid in shares of common stock of the
registrant valued at the initial public offering price per share in the
registrant's common stock offering. Under this arrangement, up to 386,500 shares
of common stock may be issued (based upon the midpoint of the range of initial
public offering prices set forth on the cover page of the prospectus included in
the registrant's registration statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-74449)). The
offering and sale of these 386,500 shares of common stock was made pursuant to
Rule 701 under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
ITEM 16.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
(a) EXHIBITS
 
   
<TABLE>
<C>    <S>
  1.1  Form of Distribution Agreement.***
  2.1  Plan of Incorporation.**
  2.2  Agreement and Plan of Merger of The Goldman Sachs
       Corporation into The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.*
  2.3  Agreement and Plan of Merger of The Goldman Sachs Group,
       L.P. into The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.*
  3.1  Certificate of Incorporation of The Goldman Sachs Group,
       Inc.**
  3.2  Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The
       Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.*
  3.3  Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Goldman Sachs Group,
       Inc.*
  4.1  Form of Indenture between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and
       The Bank of New York.***
  4.2  Form of debt securities of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
       (included in Exhibit 4.1).***
  5.1  Opinion of Gregory K. Palm, Esq., a General Counsel of The
       Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.***
  8.1  Opinion of Sullivan & Cromwell, United States tax counsel to
       The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., re tax matters.***
 10.1  Lease, dated June 11, 1985, between Metropolitan Life
       Insurance Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co.**
 10.2  Lease, dated April 5, 1994, between The Chase Manhattan Bank
       (National Association) and The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., as
       amended.**
 10.3  Lease, dated as of August 22, 1997, between Ten Hanover LLC
       and The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.**
</TABLE>
    
 
                                      II-3
<PAGE>   221
<TABLE>
<C>    <S>
 10.4  Lease, dated as of July 16, 1998, between TCC Acquisition
       Corp. and The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.**
 10.5  Agreement for Lease, dated April 2, 1998, among (i) JC No. 3
       (UK) Limited and Fleet Street Square Management Limited
       trading as Fleet Street Partnership, (ii) Goldman Sachs
       International, (iii) Restamove Limited, (iv) The Goldman
       Sachs Group, L.P. and (v) Itochu Corporation.**
 10.6  Annexure 1 to Agreement for Lease, dated April 2, 1998,
       among (i) JC No. 3 (UK) Limited and Fleet Street Square
       Management Limited trading as Fleet Street Partnership, (ii)
       Goldman Sachs International, (iii) Restamove Limited, (iv)
       The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and (v) Itochu Corporation
       (Form of Occupational Lease among (i) JC No. 3 (UK) Limited
       and Fleet Street Square Management Limited trading as Fleet
       Street Partnership, (ii) Goldman Sachs International and
       (iii) The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.).**
 10.7  Agreement relating to Developer's Fit Out Works to be
       carried out at 120 Fleet Street, London, dated April 2,
       1998, among (i) JC No. 3 (UK) Limited and Fleet Street
       Square Management Limited, (ii) Goldman Sachs Property
       Management, (iii) Itochu Corporation and (iv) The Goldman
       Sachs Group, L.P.**
 10.8  Agreement relating to One Carter Lane, London EC4, dated
       March 25, 1998, among Britel Fund Trustees Limited, Goldman
       Sachs International, The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., English
       Property Corporation plc and MEPC plc.**
 10.9  Fit Out Works Agreement relating to One Carter Lane, London
       EC4, dated March 25, 1998, among Britel Fund Trustees
       Limited, Goldman Sachs International, Goldman Sachs Property
       Management, The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., English Property
       Corporation plc and MEPC plc.**
10.10  Underlease of premises known as One Carter Lane, London EC4,
       dated September 9, 1998, among Britel Fund Trustees Limited,
       Goldman Sachs International and The Goldman Sachs Group,
       L.P.**
10.11  Lease, dated March 5, 1994, among Shine Hill Development
       Limited, Shine Belt Limited, Fair Page Limited, Panhy
       Limited, Maple Court Limited and Goldman Sachs (Asia)
       Finance, as amended.**
10.12  Guarantee, dated November 17, 1993, between Shine Hill
       Development Limited and The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.**
10.13  Agreement for Lease, dated November 29, 1998, between Turbo
       Top Limited and Goldman Sachs (Asia) Finance.**
10.14  Summary of Tokyo Leases.**
10.15  The Goldman Sachs 1999 Stock Incentive Plan.*
10.16  The Goldman Sachs Defined Contribution Plan.*
10.17  Letter Agreement with Mr. Weinberg.**
10.18  The Goldman Sachs Partner Compensation Plan.*
10.19  Form of Employment Agreement.*
10.20  Form of Agreement Relating to Noncompetition and Other
       Covenants.*
10.21  Form of Pledge Agreement.*
10.22  Form of Award Agreement (Formula RSUs).*
10.23  Form of Award Agreement (Discretionary RSUs).*
10.24  Form of Option Agreement (Discretionary Options).*
10.25  Tax Indemnification Agreement, by and among The Goldman
       Sachs Group, Inc. and various parties.*
</TABLE>
 
                                      II-4
<PAGE>   222
 
   
<TABLE>
<C>        <S>
    10.26  Form of Shareholders' Agreement among The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and various parties.*
    10.27  Instrument of Indemnification.*
    10.28  Form of Indemnification Agreement.*
    10.29  Subscription Agreement, dated as of April 24, 1992, among the Trustees of the Estate of Bernice Pauahi
           Bishop, Pauahi Holdings Corporation, Royal Hawaiian Shopping Center, Inc. and The Goldman Sachs Group,
           L.P.**
    10.30  Subscription Agreement, dated as of November 21, 1994, among the Trustees of the Estate of Bernice Pauahi
           Bishop, Pauahi Holdings Corporation, Royal Hawaiian Shopping Center, Inc. and The Goldman Sachs Group,
           L.P.**
    10.31  Letter Agreement, dated March 15, 1999, among Kamehameha Activities Association and The Goldman Sachs
           Group, L.P. (the "Kamehameha Letter Agreement").**
    10.32  Amended and Restated Subscription Agreement, dated as of March 28, 1989, among The Sumitomo Bank, Limited,
           Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.**
    10.33  Letter Agreement, dated March 15, 1999, among The Sumitomo Bank, Limited, Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets,
           Inc. and The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. (the "Sumitomo Letter Agreement").**
    10.34  Lease, dated September 24, 1992, from LDT Partners to Goldman Sachs International.**
    10.35  Amendment to Kamehameha Letter Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.31), dated April 30, 1999, among Kamehameha
           Activities Association, the Trustees of the Estate of Bernice Pauahi Bishop, The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.
           and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.*
    10.36  Amendment to Sumitomo Letter Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.33), dated April 30, 1999, among The Sumitomo
           Bank, Limited, Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc., The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., The Goldman Sachs
           Group, Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co.*
    10.37  Voting Agreement, dated as of April 30, 1999, by and among The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., on the one hand,
           and The Trustees of the Estate of Bernice Pauahi Bishop and Kamehameha Activities Association, on the
           other hand.*
    10.38  Voting Agreement, dated as of April 30, 1999, by and among The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., on the one hand,
           and The Sumitomo Bank, Limited, and Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc., on the other hand.*
     12.1  Statement re computation of ratios of earnings to fixed charges.***
     15.1  Letter re Unaudited Interim Financial Information.
     21.1  List of subsidiaries of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.**
     23.1  Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
     23.2  Consent of Gregory K. Palm, Esq. (included in Exhibit 5.1 above).***
     23.3  Consent of Sullivan & Cromwell (included in Exhibit 8.1 above).***
     23.4  Consent of Securities Data Company.
     24.1  Powers of Attorney.***
     25.1  Statement of Eligibility of Trustee.***
     27.1  Financial Data Schedule.
</TABLE>
    
 
- ---------------
  * Incorporated herein by reference to the corresponding exhibit to the
    registrant's registration statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-75213).
 
 ** Incorporated herein by reference to the corresponding exhibit to the
    registrant's registration statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-74449).
 
*** Previously filed.
                                      II-5
<PAGE>   223
 
(b) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
     Condensed financial information of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and report
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP thereon.
 
ITEM 17.  UNDERTAKINGS
 
     (A) The undersigned registrant hereby undertakes:
 
          (1) To file, during any period in which offers or sales are being
     made, a post-effective amendment to this registration statement:
 
             (i) To include any prospectus required by Section 10(a)(3) of the
        Securities Act;
 
             (ii) To reflect in the prospectus any facts or events arising after
        the effective date of the registration statement (or the most recent
        post-effective amendment thereof) which, individually or in the
        aggregate, represent a fundamental change in the information set forth
        in the registration statement; and
 
             (iii) To include any material information with respect to the plan
        of distribution not previously disclosed in the registration statement
        or any material change to such information in the registration
        statement.
 
          (2) That, for the purpose of determining any liability under the
     Securities Act, each such post-effective amendment shall be deemed to be a
     new registration statement relating to the securities offered therein, and
     the offering of such securities at that time shall be deemed to be the
     initial bona fide offering thereof.
 
          (3) To remove from registration by means of a post-effective amendment
     any of the securities being registered which remain unsold at the
     termination of the offering.
 
     (B) The undersigned registrant hereby undertakes that:
 
          (1) For purposes of determining any liability under the Securities
     Act, the information omitted from the form of prospectus filed as part of
     this registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A and contained in a
     form of prospectus filed by the registrant pursuant to Rule 424(b)(1) or
     (4) or 497(h) under the Securities Act shall be deemed to be part of this
     registration statement as of the time it was declared effective.
 
          (2) For the purpose of determining any liability under the Securities
     Act, each post-effective amendment that contains a form of prospectus shall
     be deemed to be a new registration statement relating to the securities
     offered therein, and the offering of such securities at that time shall be
     deemed to be the initial bona fide offering thereof.
 
     (C) Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities
Act may be permitted to directors, officers and controlling persons of the
registrant pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the registrant
has been advised that in the opinion of the SEC such indemnification is against
public policy as expressed in the Securities Act and is, therefore,
unenforceable. In the event that a claim for indemnification against such
liabilities (other than the payment by the registrant of expenses incurred or
paid by a director, officer or controlling person of the registrant in the
successful defense of any action, suit or proceeding) is asserted against the
registrant by such director, officer or controlling person in connection with
the securities being registered, the registrant will, unless in the opinion of
its counsel the matter has been settled by controlling precedent, submit to a
court of appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such indemnification by
it is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act and will be
governed by the final adjudication of such issue.
 
                                      II-6
<PAGE>   224
 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
   
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, the registrant
has duly caused this Amendment No. 3 to the registration statement (No.
333-75321) to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized, in the City of New York, New York on the 17th day of May, 1999.
    
 
                                          THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
 
                                          By: /s/ GREGORY K. PALM
                                            ------------------------------------
                                          Name: Gregory K. Palm
                                          Title:  General Counsel
 
   
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, this Amendment
No. 3 to the registration statement (No. 333-75321) has been signed by the
following persons in the capacities indicated on the 17th day of May, 1999:
    
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                        TITLE                                              SIGNATURE
                        -----                                              ---------
<S>                                                      <C>
 
Director, Co-Chairman of the Board and Chief
  Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)                              *
                                                         ----------------------------------------------
                                                                     Henry M. Paulson, Jr.
 
Director and Vice Chairman                                                     *
                                                         ----------------------------------------------
                                                                        Robert J. Hurst
 
Director, President and Co-Chief Operating Officer                             *
                                                         ----------------------------------------------
                                                                         John A. Thain
 
Director, President and Co-Chief Operating Officer                             *
                                                         ----------------------------------------------
                                                                        John L. Thornton
 
Director
                                                         ----------------------------------------------
                                                                        Sir John Browne
 
Director
                                                         ----------------------------------------------
                                                                        James A. Johnson
 
Director
                                                         ----------------------------------------------
                                                                        John L. Weinberg
 
Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)                          *
                                                         ----------------------------------------------
                                                                        David A. Viniar
 
Principal Accounting Officer                                                   *
                                                         ----------------------------------------------
                                                                         Sarah G. Smith
</TABLE>
 
*By: /s/ GREGORY K. PALM
     ---------------------------------
     Name: Gregory K. Palm
     Attorney-in-Fact
                                      II-7
<PAGE>   225
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Partners,
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.:
 
In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements of The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and Subsidiaries as of November 27, 1998 and November
28, 1997, and for the three years in the period ended November 27, 1998, which
financial statements are included on pages F-3 to F-23 of this Form S-1, we have
also audited the financial statement schedule listed in Item 16(b) herein.
 
In our opinion, the financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to
the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information required to be included therein.
 
/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
 
New York, New York
January 22, 1999.
 
                                       S-1
<PAGE>   226
 
                                                                     SCHEDULE IV
                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
 
                         THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P.
             CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                              -----------------------------
                                                               1996       1997       1998
                                                               ----       ----       ----
                                                                      (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
REVENUES:
Equity earnings of subsidiaries.............................  $ 2,184    $ 2,378    $ 1,780
Principal investments.......................................      208        339        540
Interest income, principally from affiliates................    2,602      2,943      4,369
                                                              -------    -------    -------
     Total revenues.........................................    4,994      5,660      6,689
Interest expense, principally on short-term funding.........    2,547      2,858      4,201
                                                              -------    -------    -------
     Revenues, net of interest expense......................    2,447      2,802      2,488
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Compensation and benefits...................................       13         12          9
Other.......................................................       33         29         43
                                                              -------    -------    -------
     Total operating expenses...............................       46         41         52
Pre-tax earnings............................................    2,401      2,761      2,436
Provision for unincorporated business taxes.................        2         15          8
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Net earnings................................................  $ 2,399    $ 2,746    $ 2,428
                                                              =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>
 
                  See note to condensed financial statements.
 
                                       S-2
<PAGE>   227
 
                                                                     SCHEDULE IV
 
                         THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P.
 
       CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                              ------------------
                                                               1997       1998
                                                               ----       ----
                                                                (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
ASSETS:
Cash and cash equivalents...................................  $     4    $    11
Financial instruments owned, at fair value..................    1,896      2,147
Receivables from affiliates.................................   23,767     33,562
Subordinated loan receivables from affiliates...............    6,889      8,668
Investment in subsidiaries..................................    5,005      5,077
Other.......................................................      434      1,123
                                                              -------    -------
                                                              $37,995    $50,588
                                                              =======    =======
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH:
Short-term borrowings, including commercial paper...........  $16,597    $23,364
Payables to affiliates......................................      119      1,679
Other.......................................................      137        147
Long-term borrowings:
  With third parties........................................   14,290     18,584
  With affiliates...........................................      315        430
                                                              -------    -------
                                                               31,458     44,204
Partners' capital allocated for income taxes and potential
  withdrawals...............................................      430         74
Partners' capital...........................................    6,107      6,310
                                                              -------    -------
                                                              $37,995    $50,588
                                                              =======    =======
</TABLE>
 
                  See note to condensed financial statements.
 
                                       S-3
<PAGE>   228
 
                                                                     SCHEDULE IV
 
                         THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P.
 
            CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                              -----------------------------
                                                               1996       1997       1998
                                                               ----       ----       ----
                                                                      (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net earnings..............................................  $ 2,399    $ 2,746    $ 2,428
  Non-cash items included in net earnings:
    Equity in earnings of subsidiaries......................   (2,184)    (2,378)    (1,780)
    Depreciation and amortization...........................       25         19         35
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
  Financial instruments owned, at fair value................     (110)      (395)        (8)
  Other, net................................................      (43)       (98)      (501)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
    Net cash provided by/(used for) operating activities....       87       (106)       174
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Financial instruments owned, at fair value................      126       (331)      (243)
  Receivables from affiliates, net..........................   (1,476)    (4,320)    (8,235)
  Subordinated loan receivables from affiliates.............     (480)    (1,528)    (1,779)
  Investment in subsidiaries................................    2,031      2,147      1,362
  Property, leasehold improvements and equipment............       (1)        (4)      (145)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
    Net cash provided by/(used for) investing activities....      200     (4,036)    (9,040)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Short-term borrowings, net................................      496         39      2,586
  Issuance of long-term borrowings..........................    4,636      7,498     10,289
  Repayment of long-term borrowings.........................   (3,886)    (1,005)    (1,698)
  Capital contributions.....................................        4         89          9
  Returns on capital and certain distributions to
    partners................................................     (473)      (557)      (619)
  Termination of the Profit Participation Plans.............       --         --        (21)
  Partners' capital allocated for income taxes and potential
    withdrawals, net........................................   (1,017)    (2,034)    (1,673)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
    Net cash (used for)/provided by financing activities....     (240)     4,030      8,873
                                                              -------    -------    -------
  Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents......       47       (112)         7
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year................       69        116          4
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year......................  $   116    $     4    $    11
                                                              =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>
 
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:
 
Cash payments for interest approximated the related expense for each of the
fiscal periods presented. Payments of unincorporated business taxes were not
material.
 
Cash payments of $347 million related to the termination of the Profit
Participation Plans in 1998 were paid by Group L.P.'s subsidiaries and were
excluded from the condensed statement of cash flows above as these payments
represented non-cash items to Group L.P.
 
                  See note to condensed financial statements.
 
                                       S-4
<PAGE>   229
 
                                                                     SCHEDULE IV
 
                         THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P.
 
          NOTE TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
 
NOTE 1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
     The condensed unconsolidated financial statements of The Goldman Sachs
Group, L.P. should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and Subsidiaries and the footnotes
thereto. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to
conform to the current presentation.
 
     Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the equity method.
 
     The condensed unconsolidated financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that require management
to make estimates and assumptions regarding investment valuations, partner
retirements, the outcome of pending litigation and other matters that affect the
condensed unconsolidated financial statements and related disclosures. These
estimates and assumptions are based on judgment and available information and,
consequently, actual results could be materially different from these estimates.
 
                                       S-5
<PAGE>   230
 
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
   
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        SEQUENTIALLY
EXHIBIT                                                                   NUMBERED
  NO.                             DESCRIPTION                               PAGE
- -------   ------------------------------------------------------------  ------------
<C>       <S>                                                           <C>
   1.1    Form of Distribution Agreement.***
   2.1    Plan of Incorporation.**
   2.2    Agreement and Plan of Merger of The Goldman Sachs
          Corporation into The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.*
   2.3    Agreement and Plan of Merger of The Goldman Sachs Group,
          L.P. into The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.*
   3.1    Certificate of Incorporation of The Goldman Sachs Group,
          Inc.**
   3.2    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The
          Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.*
   3.3    Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Goldman Sachs Group,
          Inc.*
   4.1    Form of Indenture between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and
          The Bank of New York.***
   4.2    Form of debt securities of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
          (included in Exhibit 4.1).***
   5.1    Opinion of Gregory K. Palm, Esq., a General Counsel of The
          Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.***
   8.1    Opinion of Sullivan & Cromwell, United States tax counsel to
          The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., re tax matters.***
  10.1    Lease, dated June 11, 1985, between Metropolitan Life
          Insurance Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co.**
  10.2    Lease, dated April 5, 1994, between The Chase Manhattan Bank
          (National Association) and The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., as
          amended.**
  10.3    Lease, dated as of August 22, 1997, between Ten Hanover LLC
          and The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.**
  10.4    Lease, dated as of July 16, 1998, between TCC Acquisition
          Corp. and The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.**
  10.5    Agreement for Lease, dated April 2, 1998, among (i) JC No. 3
          (UK) Limited and Fleet Street Square Management Limited
          trading as Fleet Street Partnership, (ii) Goldman Sachs
          International, (iii) Restamove Limited, (iv) The Goldman
          Sachs Group, L.P. and (v) Itochu Corporation.**
  10.6    Annexure 1 to Agreement for Lease, dated April 2, 1998,
          among (i) JC No. 3 (UK) Limited and Fleet Street Square
          Management Limited trading as Fleet Street Partnership, (ii)
          Goldman Sachs International, (iii) Restamove Limited, (iv)
          The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and (v) Itochu Corporation
          (Form of Occupational Lease among (i) JC No. 3 (UK) Limited
          and Fleet Street Square Management Limited trading as Fleet
          Street Partnership, (ii) Goldman Sachs International and
          (iii) The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.).**
  10.7    Agreement relating to Developer's Fit Out Works to be
          carried out at 120 Fleet Street, London, dated April 2,
          1998, among (i) JC No. 3 (UK) Limited and Fleet Street
          Square Management Limited, (ii) Goldman Sachs Property
          Management, (iii) Itochu Corporation and (iv) The Goldman
          Sachs Group, L.P.**
  10.8    Agreement relating to One Carter Lane, London EC4, dated
          March 25, 1998, among Britel Fund Trustees Limited, Goldman
          Sachs International, The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., English
          Property Corporation plc and MEPC plc.**
  10.9    Fit Out Works Agreement relating to One Carter Lane, London
          EC4, dated March 25, 1998, among Britel Fund Trustees
          Limited, Goldman Sachs International, Goldman Sachs Property
          Management, The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., English Property
          Corporation plc and MEPC plc.**
 10.10    Underlease of premises known as One Carter Lane, London EC4,
          dated September 9, 1998, among Britel Fund Trustees Limited,
          Goldman Sachs International and The Goldman Sachs Group,
          L.P.**
</TABLE>
    
<PAGE>   231
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        SEQUENTIALLY
EXHIBIT                                                                   NUMBERED
  NO.                             DESCRIPTION                               PAGE
- -------   ------------------------------------------------------------  ------------
<C>       <S>                                                           <C>
 10.11    Lease, dated March 5, 1994, among Shine Hill Development
          Limited, Shine Belt Limited, Fair Page Limited, Panhy
          Limited, Maple Court Limited and Goldman Sachs (Asia)
          Finance, as amended.**
 10.12    Guarantee, dated November 17, 1993, between Shine Hill
          Development Limited and The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.**
 10.13    Agreement for Lease, dated November 29, 1998, between Turbo
          Top Limited and Goldman Sachs (Asia) Finance.**
 10.14    Summary of Tokyo Leases.**
 10.15    The Goldman Sachs 1999 Stock Incentive Plan.*
 10.16    The Goldman Sachs Defined Contribution Plan.*
 10.17    Letter Agreement with Mr. Weinberg.**
 10.18    The Goldman Sachs Partner Compensation Plan.*
 10.19    Form of Employment Agreement.*
 10.20    Form of Agreement Relating to Noncompetition and Other
          Covenants.*
 10.21    Form of Pledge Agreement.*
 10.22    Form of Award Agreement. (Formula RSUs).*
 10.23    Form of Award Agreement. (Discretionary RSUs).*
 10.24    Form of Option Agreement. (Discretionary Options).*
 10.25    Tax Indemnification Agreement, by and among The Goldman
          Sachs Group, Inc. and various parties.*
 10.26    Form of Shareholders' Agreement among The Goldman Sachs
          Group, Inc. and various parties.*
 10.27    Instrument of Indemnification.*
 10.28    Form of Indemnification Agreement.*
 10.29    Subscription Agreement, dated as of April 24, 1992, among
          the Trustees of the Estate of Bernice Pauahi Bishop, Pauahi
          Holdings Corporation, Royal Hawaiian Shopping Center, Inc.
          and The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.**
 10.30    Subscription Agreement, dated as of November 21, 1994, among
          the Trustees of the Estate of Bernice Pauahi Bishop, Pauahi
          Holdings Corporation, Royal Hawaiian Shopping Center, Inc.
          and The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.**
 10.31    Letter Agreement, dated March 15, 1999, among Kamehameha
          Activities Association and The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.
          (the "Kamehameha Letter Agreement").**
 10.32    Amended and Restated Subscription Agreement, dated as of
          March 28, 1989, among The Sumitomo Bank, Limited, Sumitomo
          Bank Capital Markets, Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and The
          Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.**
 10.33    Letter Agreement, dated March 15, 1999, among The Sumitomo
          Bank, Limited, Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and The
          Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. (the "Sumitomo Letter
          Agreement").**
 10.34    Lease, dated September 24, 1992, from LDT Partners to
          Goldman Sachs International.**
 10.35    Amendment to Kamehameha Letter Agreement (filed as Exhibit
          10.31), dated April 30, 1999, among Kamehameha Activities
          Association, the Trustees of the Estate of Bernice Pauahi
          Bishop, The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and The Goldman Sachs
          Group, Inc.*
 10.36    Amendment to Sumitomo Letter Agreement (filed as Exhibit
          10.33), dated April 30, 1999, among The Sumitomo Bank,
          Limited, Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc., The Goldman
          Sachs Group, L.P., The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and
          Goldman, Sachs & Co.*
 10.37    Voting Agreement, dated as of April 30, 1999, by and among
          The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., on the one hand, and The
          Trustees of the Estate of Bernice Pauahi Bishop and
          Kamehameha Activities Association, on the other hand.*
</TABLE>
<PAGE>   232
 
   
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        SEQUENTIALLY
EXHIBIT                                                                   NUMBERED
  NO.                             DESCRIPTION                               PAGE
- -------   ------------------------------------------------------------  ------------
<C>       <S>                                                           <C>
 10.38    Voting Agreement, dated as of April 30, 1999, by and among
          The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., on the one hand, and The
          Sumitomo Bank, Limited, and Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets,
          Inc., on the other hand.*
  12.1    Statement re computation of ratios of earnings to fixed
          charges.***
  15.1    Letter re Unaudited Interim Financial Information.
  21.1    List of subsidiaries of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.**
  23.1    Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
  23.2    Consent of Gregory K. Palm, Esq. (included in Exhibit 5.1
          above).***
  23.3    Consent of Sullivan & Cromwell (included in Exhibit 8.1
          above).***
  23.4    Consent of Securities Data Company.
  24.1    Powers of Attorney.***
  25.1    Statement of Eligibility of Trustee.***
  27.1    Financial Data Schedule.
</TABLE>
    
 
- ---------------
 
  * Incorporated herein by reference to the corresponding exhibit to the
    registrant's registration statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-75213).
 
 ** Incorporated herein by reference to the corresponding exhibit to the
    registrant's registration statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-74449).
 
*** Previously filed.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-15.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>LETTER RE UNAUDITED INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
   
                                                                    Exhibit 15.1

May 17, 1999


Securities and Exchange Commission
450 Fifth Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20549

     Re:  The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
          Registration Statement on Form S-1
          (File No. 333-75321)

Commissioners:

We are aware that our report dated April 9, 1999 on our review of the condensed
consolidated financial statements of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and
Subsidiaries (the "Firm") as of February 26, 1999 and for the three months ended
February 26, 1999 and February 27, 1998 is included in the Firm's Prospectus
constituting part of this Registration Statement on Form S-1. Pursuant to Rule
436(c) under the Securities Act of 1933, that report should not be considered a
part of the Registration Statement prepared or certified by us within the
meaning of Sections 7 and 11 of that Act.

Very truly yours,


/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
    
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSE COOPERS LLP
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
 
   
                                                                    Exhibit 23.1
    
 
                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                            ------------------------
   
 
We consent to the inclusion in the Prospectus constituting part of this
Registration Statement on Form S-1 of our reports dated January 22, 1999, on our
audits of the consolidated financial statements, selected historical
consolidated income statement and balance sheet data and the financial statement
schedule of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and Subsidiaries. We also consent to
the references to our firm under the captions "Experts", "Summary Consolidated
Financial Data", and "Selected Consolidated Financial Data".
    
 
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
New York, New York
   
May 17, 1999.
    
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.4
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF SECURITIES DATA COMPANY
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1


   
                                                                    Exhibit 23.4
    

                     



                            SECURITIES DATA COMPANY



   
We hereby consent to the use of the information we provided for use in
Amendment No. 3 to the Registration Statement (No. 333-75321) relating
to the offering of Medium-Term Notes by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
and to the references to our name in Amendment No. 3 to the
Registration Statement, including under the caption "Experts".
    




Securities Data Company,
A division of Thomson Information Services 


   

/s/ Francine Falchook
- --------------------
Francine Falchook
Senior Vice President

    

   
May 17, 1999
    
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>



<ARTICLE> BD
<LEGEND>
THE AMOUNTS DISCLOSED IN THE FINANCIAL DATA SUMMARY SHOULD BE READ IN
CONJUNCTION WITH THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE NOTES THERETO.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   3-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          NOV-26-1999
<PERIOD-START>                             NOV-30-1998<F1>
<PERIOD-END>                               FEB-26-1999
<CASH>                                          10,706<F2>
<RECEIVABLES>                                   23,935
<SECURITIES-RESALE>                             41,776
<SECURITIES-BORROWED>                           74,036
<INSTRUMENTS-OWNED>                             70,521
<PP&E>                                             962<F3>
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                 230,624
<SHORT-TERM>                                    33,863
<PAYABLES>                                      33,437
<REPOS-SOLD>                                    36,906
<SECURITIES-LOANED>                             24,770
<INSTRUMENTS-SOLD>                              62,152
<LONG-TERM>                                     20,405
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                             0
<OTHER-SE>                                           0
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                   223,633<F4>
<TRADING-REVENUE>                                1,398<F5>
<INTEREST-DIVIDENDS>                             3,013
<COMMISSIONS>                                      327<F6>
<INVESTMENT-BANKING-REVENUES>                      902
<FEE-REVENUE>                                      216<F6>
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                               2,861
<COMPENSATION>                                   1,275
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  1,188
<INCOME-PRE-EXTRAORDINARY>                       1,188
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                     1,007
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                        0
<EPS-DILUTED>                                        0
<FN>
<F1>REPRESENTS THE FIRST MONDAY OF THE PERIOD.
<F2>INCLUDES CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND CASH AND SECURITIES SEGREGATED IN
COMPLIANCE WITH U.S. FEDERAL AND OTHER REGULATIONS AS DISCLOSED ON THE
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION.
<F3>INCLUDED IN OTHER ASSETS ON THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION.
<F4>EXCLUDES PARTNERS' CAPITAL AND PARTNERS' CAPITAL ALLOCATED FOR INCOME TAXES AND
POTENTIAL WITHDRAWALS AS DISCLOSED ON THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION.
<F5>INCLUDES REVENUES FROM PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS, WHICH MAINLY REPRESENTS REVENUES
FROM INVESTMENTS IN MERCHANT BANKING FUNDS.
<F6>INCLUDED IN REVENUES FROM ASSET MANAGEMENT AND SECURITIES SERVICES ON THE 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS.
</FN>
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
