-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 G4StlLqijRt43Utl/4Is8iqKzrutqfO/k8jtBwpD9q3Idu5TBk52+71CGL3mW/Um
 tzO8Nzg3KQUZYk0X3arvHg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950123-99-004070.txt : 19990505
<SEC-HEADER>0000950123-99-004070.hdr.sgml : 19990505
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-99-004070
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	424B4
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		1
FILED AS OF DATE:		19990504

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000886982
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				133501777
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1126

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		424B4
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	333-74449
		FILM NUMBER:		99609464

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		85 BROAD ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10004
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2129021000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		85 BROAD ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10004
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>424B4
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FILED PURSUANT TO RULE 424(B)(4)
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                Filed Pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4)
                                                Registration No. 333-74449
 
                               69,000,000 Shares
                         THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
                                  Common Stock
[GOLDMAN SACHS LOGO]
                            ------------------------
     This is an initial public offering of shares of common stock of The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. This prospectus relates to an offering of 55,200,000 shares in
the United States and Canada. In addition, 9,200,000 shares are being offered
outside the United States, Canada and the Asia/ Pacific region and 4,600,000
shares are being offered in the Asia/Pacific region.
 
     Goldman Sachs is offering 51,000,000 of the shares to be sold in the
offerings. Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities
Association are each offering an additional 9,000,000 shares.
 
     Prior to this offering, there has been no public market for the common
stock. Goldman Sachs will list the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol "GS".
 
     See "Risk Factors" beginning on page 11 to read about factors you should
consider before buying shares of the common stock.
 
                            ------------------------
 
    NEITHER THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION NOR ANY OTHER REGULATORY BODY
HAS APPROVED OR DISAPPROVED OF THESE SECURITIES OR PASSED UPON THE ADEQUACY OR
ACCURACY OF THIS PROSPECTUS. ANY REPRESENTATION TO THE CONTRARY IS A CRIMINAL
OFFENSE.
 
                            ------------------------
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Per Share        Total
                                                              ---------        -----
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
Initial public offering price...............................   $53.00      $3,657,000,000
Underwriting discount.......................................   $ 2.25      $  155,250,000
Proceeds, before expenses, to Goldman Sachs.................   $50.75      $2,588,250,000
Proceeds, before expenses, to the selling shareholders......   $50.75      $  913,500,000
</TABLE>
 
     This offering includes 9,000,000 shares of common stock purchased by the
underwriters pursuant to options granted by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. See
"Underwriting".
 
     The underwriters expect to deliver the shares in New York, New York on May
7, 1999.
 
                            ------------------------
 
                               Global Coordinator
 
                              GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
 
                            ------------------------
 
                              GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
 
BEAR, STEARNS & CO. INC.      CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON     DONALDSON, LUFKIN &
                                                                  JENRETTE
LEHMAN BROTHERS               MERRILL LYNCH & CO.              J.P. MORGAN & CO.
MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER     PAINEWEBBER INCORPORATED    PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES
SALOMON SMITH BARNEY    SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO., INC.     SCHRODER & CO. INC.
                            ------------------------
                         Prospectus dated May 3, 1999.
<PAGE>   2
 
                            OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
 
1.  Our clients' interests always come first. Our experience shows that if we
serve our clients well, our own success will follow.
 
2.  Our assets are our people, capital and reputation. If any of these is ever
diminished, the last is the most difficult to restore. We are dedicated to
complying fully with the letter and spirit of the laws, rules and ethical
principles that govern us. Our continued success depends upon unswerving
adherence to this standard.
 
3.  Our goal is to provide superior returns to our shareholders. Profitability
is critical to achieving superior returns, building our capital and attracting
and keeping our best people. Significant employee stock ownership aligns the
interests of our employees and our shareholders.
 
4.  We take great pride in the professional quality of our work. We have an
uncompromising determination to achieve excellence in everything we undertake.
Though we may be involved in a wide variety and heavy volume of activity, we
would, if it came to a choice, rather be best than biggest.
 
5.  We stress creativity and imagination in everything we do. While recognizing
that the old way may still be the best way, we constantly strive to find a
better solution to a client's problems. We pride ourselves on having pioneered
many of the practices and techniques that have become standard in the industry.
 
6.  We make an unusual effort to identify and recruit the very best person for
every job. Although our activities are measured in billions of dollars, we
select our people one by one. In a service business, we know that without the
best people, we cannot be the best firm.
 
7.  We offer our people the opportunity to move ahead more rapidly than is
possible at most other places. We have yet to find the limits to the
responsibility that our best people are able to assume. Advancement depends
solely on ability, performance and contribution to the Firm's success, without
regard to race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, disability, sexual
orientation, or any other impermissible criterion or circumstance.
 
8.  We stress teamwork in everything we do. While individual creativity is
always encouraged, we have found that team effort often produces the best
results. We have no room for those who put their personal interests ahead of the
interests of the Firm and its clients.
 
9.  The dedication of our people to the Firm and the intense effort they give
their jobs are greater than one finds in most other organizations. We think that
this is an important part of our success.
 
10.  We consider our size an asset that we try hard to preserve. We want to be
big enough to undertake the largest project that any of our clients could
contemplate, yet small enough to maintain the loyalty, the intimacy and the
esprit de corps that we all treasure and that contribute greatly to our success.
 
11.  We constantly strive to anticipate the rapidly changing needs of our
clients and to develop new services to meet those needs. We know that the world
of finance will not stand still and that complacency can lead to extinction.
 
12.  We regularly receive confidential information as part of our normal client
relationships. To breach a confidence or to use confidential information
improperly or carelessly would be unthinkable.
 
13.  Our business is highly competitive, and we aggressively seek to expand our
client relationships. However, we must always be fair competitors and must never
denigrate other firms.
 
14.  Integrity and honesty are at the heart of our business. We expect our
people to maintain high ethical standards in everything they do, both in their
work for the Firm and in their personal lives.
 
                                        2
<PAGE>   3
 
                               PROSPECTUS SUMMARY
 
     This summary highlights information contained elsewhere in this prospectus.
This summary does not contain all of the information that you should consider
before investing in the common stock. You should read the entire prospectus
carefully, especially the risks of investing in the common stock discussed under
"Risk Factors" on pages 11-21.
 
                         THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
 
     Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking and securities firm
with three principal business lines:
 
     - Investment Banking;
     - Trading and Principal Investments; and
     - Asset Management and Securities Services.
 
Our goal is to be the advisor of choice for our clients and a leading
participant in global financial markets. We provide services worldwide to a
substantial and diversified client base, which includes corporations, financial
institutions, governments and high net worth individuals.
 
     For our fiscal year ended November 27, 1998, our net revenues were $8.5
billion and our pre-tax earnings were $2.9 billion, and for our fiscal quarter
ended February 26, 1999, our net revenues were $3.0 billion and our pre-tax
earnings were $1.2 billion. As of February 26, 1999, our total assets were
$230.6 billion and our partners' capital was $6.6 billion.
 
     We have over time produced strong earnings growth and attractive returns on
partners' capital through different economic and market conditions. Over the
last 15 years, our pre-tax earnings have grown from $462 million in 1983 to $2.9
billion in 1998, representing a compound annual growth rate of 13%. Economic and
market conditions can, however, significantly affect our performance. For
example, in the second half of fiscal 1998, our performance was adversely
affected by turbulence in global financial markets.
 
     We have achieved this growth, which has been generated without the benefit
of a large acquisition, by maintaining an intense commitment to our clients,
focusing on our core businesses and key opportunities, and operating as an
integrated franchise.
 
     Because we believe that the needs of our clients are global and that
international markets have high growth potential, we have built upon our
strength in the United States to achieve leading positions in other parts of the
world. Today, we have a strong global presence as evidenced by the geographic
breadth of our transactions, leadership in our core products and the size of our
international operations. As of February 26, 1999, we operated offices in 23
countries and 36% of our 13,000 employees were based outside the United States.
 
     We are committed to a distinctive culture and set of core values. These
values are reflected in our Business Principles, which emphasize placing our
clients' interests first, integrity, commitment to excellence and innovation,
and teamwork.
 
     Goldman Sachs is managed by its principal owners. Simultaneously with the
offerings, we will grant restricted stock units, stock options or interests in a
defined contribution plan to substantially all of our employees. Following the
offerings, our employees, including former partners, will own approximately 65%
of Goldman Sachs. None of our employees are selling shares in the offerings.
 
                            WHY WE ARE GOING PUBLIC
 
     We have decided to become a public company for three principal reasons:
 
     - to secure permanent capital to grow;
     - to share ownership broadly among our employees now and through future
       compensation; and
     - to permit us to use publicly traded securities to finance strategic
       acquisitions that we may elect to make in the future.
 
                                        3
<PAGE>   4
 
                             SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
                                ($ in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  AS OF OR FOR
                                                       AS OF OR FOR               THREE MONTHS
                                                   YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER           ENDED FEBRUARY
                                              ------------------------------   ------------------
                                                1996       1997       1998      1998       1999
                                                ----       ----       ----      ----       ----
<S>                                           <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>       <C>
Net revenues:
  Investment Banking........................  $  2,113   $  2,587   $  3,368   $   633   $    902
  Trading and Principal Investments.........     2,693      2,926      2,379     1,182      1,357
  Asset Management and Securities
     Services...............................     1,323      1,934      2,773       657        736
                                              --------   --------   --------   -------   --------
Total net revenues..........................  $  6,129   $  7,447   $  8,520   $ 2,472   $  2,995
                                              ========   ========   ========   =======   ========
Pre-tax earnings(1).........................  $  2,606   $  3,014   $  2,921   $ 1,022   $  1,188
Total assets................................   152,046    178,401    217,380        --    230,624
Partners' capital...........................     5,309      6,107      6,310        --      6,612
Pre-tax return on average partners'
  capital(1)................................        51%        53%        47%       --         --
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
Read the table above in conjunction with the footnotes to "Selected Consolidated
Financial Data" as well as the following footnote:
(1) Since we have historically operated in partnership form, payments to our
    profit participating limited partners have been accounted for as
    distributions of partners' capital rather than as compensation expense. As a
    result, our pre-tax earnings and compensation and benefits expense have not
    reflected any payments for services rendered by our managing directors who
    were profit participating limited partners. Accordingly, our historical
    pre-tax earnings understate the expected operating costs to be incurred by
    us after the offerings. As a corporation, we will include payments for
    services rendered by our managing directors who were profit participating
    limited partners in compensation and benefits expense. For financial
    information that reflects pro forma compensation and benefits expense as if
    we had been a corporation, see "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
    Information".
 
                            ------------------------
 
                     STRATEGY AND PRINCIPAL BUSINESS LINES
 
     Our strategy is to grow our three core businesses -- Investment Banking,
Trading and Principal Investments, and Asset Management and Securities
Services -- in markets throughout the world. Our leadership position in
investment banking provides us with access to governments, financial
institutions and corporate clients globally. Trading and principal investing has
been an important part of our culture and earnings, and we remain committed to
these businesses irrespective of their volatility. Managing wealth is one of the
fastest growing segments of the financial services industry and we are
positioning our asset management and securities services businesses to take
advantage of that growth.
 
INVESTMENT BANKING
 
     Investment Banking represented 39% of fiscal 1998 net revenues and 35% of
fiscal 1997 net revenues. We are a market leader in both the financial advisory
and underwriting businesses, serving over 3,000 clients worldwide. For the
period January 1, 1994 to December 31, 1998, we had the industry-leading market
share of 25.3% in worldwide mergers and acquisitions advisory services, having
advised on over $1.7 trillion of transactions. Over the same period, we also
achieved number one market shares of 15.2% in underwriting worldwide initial
public offerings and 14.4% in underwriting worldwide common stock issues. The
source for this market share information is Securities Data Company.
 
                                        4
<PAGE>   5
 
TRADING AND PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS
 
     Trading and Principal Investments represented 28% of fiscal 1998 net
revenues and 39% of fiscal 1997 net revenues. We make markets in equity and
fixed income products, currencies and commodities; enter into swaps and other
derivative transactions; engage in proprietary trading and arbitrage; and make
principal investments. In trading, we focus on building lasting relationships
with our most active clients while maintaining leadership positions in our key
markets. We believe our research, market-making and proprietary activities
enhance our understanding of markets and ability to serve our clients.
 
ASSET MANAGEMENT AND SECURITIES SERVICES
 
     Asset Management and Securities Services represented 33% of fiscal 1998 net
revenues and 26% of fiscal 1997 net revenues. We provide global investment
management and advisory services; earn commissions on agency transactions;
manage merchant banking funds; and provide prime brokerage, securities lending
and financing services. Our asset management business has grown rapidly, with
assets under supervision increasing from $92.7 billion as of November 25, 1994
to $369.7 billion as of February 26, 1999, representing a compound annual growth
rate of 38%. As of February 26, 1999, we had $206.4 billion of assets under
management. We manage merchant banking funds that had $15.5 billion of capital
commitments as of the end of fiscal 1998.
 
     Assets under supervision are comprised of assets under management and other
client assets. Assets under management typically generate fees based on a
percentage of their value. Other client assets are comprised of assets in
brokerage accounts of primarily high net worth individuals, on which we earn
commissions.
 
     We pursue our strategy to grow our three core businesses through an
emphasis on:
 
EXPANDING HIGH VALUE-ADDED BUSINESSES
 
     To achieve strong growth and high returns, we seek to build leadership
positions in high value-added services such as mergers and acquisitions,
executing large and complex transactions for institutional investors and asset
management.
 
INCREASING THE STABILITY OF OUR EARNINGS
 
     While we plan to continue to grow each of our core businesses, our goal is
to gradually increase the stability of our earnings by emphasizing growth in
Investment Banking and Asset Management and Securities Services.
 
PURSUING INTERNATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
 
     We believe that our global reach will allow us to take advantage of
international growth opportunities. For example, we expect increased business
activity as a result of the establishment of the European Economic and Monetary
Union, the shift we anticipate toward privatization of pension systems and the
changing demographics around the world.
 
LEVERAGING THE FRANCHISE
 
     We believe our various businesses are generally stronger and more
successful because they are part of the Goldman Sachs franchise. Our culture of
teamwork fosters cooperation among our businesses, which allows us to provide
our clients with a full range of products and services on a coordinated basis.
 
                             COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS
 
STRONG CLIENT RELATIONSHIPS
 
     We focus on building long-term client relationships. For example, in fiscal
1998, over 75% of our Investment Banking revenues represented business from
existing clients.
 
DISTINCTIVE PEOPLE AND CULTURE
 
     Our most important asset is our people. We seek to reinforce our employees'
commitment to our culture and values through recruiting, training, a
comprehensive review system and a compensation philosophy that rewards teamwork.
 
GLOBAL REACH
 
     We have achieved leading positions in major international markets by
capitalizing on
 
                                        5
<PAGE>   6
 
our product knowledge and global research, as well as by building a local
presence where appropriate. As a result, we are one of the few truly global
investment banking and securities firms with the ability to execute large and
complex cross-border transactions.
 
                         INDUSTRY AND ECONOMIC OUTLOOK
 
     We believe that significant growth and profit opportunities exist in the
financial services industry over the long term. These opportunities derive from
long-term trends, including financial market deregulation, the globalization of
the world economy, the increasing focus of companies on shareholder value,
consolidations in various industries, growth in investable funds and
accelerating technology and financial product innovation. We believe that over
the last 15 years these trends, coupled with generally declining interest rates
and favorable market conditions, have contributed to a substantially higher rate
of growth in activity in the financial services industry than the growth in
overall economic activity. While the future economic environment may not be as
favorable as that experienced in the last 15 years and there may be periods of
adverse economic and market conditions, we believe that these trends should
continue to affect the financial services industry positively over the long
term.
 
     The following table sets forth selected key industry indicators:
 
                            KEY INDUSTRY INDICATORS
                 ($ in billions, except gross domestic product)
                         (volume in millions of shares)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     AS OF OR FOR
                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                          -----------------------------------     CAGR(6)
                                           1983     1988     1993      1998       '83-'98
                                           ----     ----     ----      ----       -------
<S>                                       <C>      <C>      <C>       <C>         <C>
Worldwide gross domestic product (in
  trillions)(1).........................  $   10   $   18   $    24   $    29(7)     8%(7)
Worldwide mergers and acquisitions(2)...      96      527       460     2,522       24
Worldwide equity issued(2)..............      50       51       172       269       12
Worldwide debt issued(2)................     146      631     1,546     2,932       22
Worldwide equity market
  capitalization(3).....................   3,384    9,728    14,016    27,459       15
NYSE average daily volume...............      85      162       265       674       15
Worldwide pension assets(4).............  $1,900   $3,752   $ 6,560   $10,975       12
U.S. mutual fund assets(5)..............     293      810     2,075     5,530       22
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Source: The Economist Intelligence Unit, January 1999.
(2) Source: Securities Data Company.
(3) Source: International Finance Corporation.
(4) Source: InterSec Research Corp.
(5) Source: Investment Company Institute.
(6) Compound annual growth rate.
(7) Data as of December 31, 1997; compound annual growth rate 1983-1997.
 
                            ------------------------
 
                                OUR HEADQUARTERS
 
     Our headquarters are located at 85 Broad Street, New York, New York 10004,
telephone (212) 902-1000.
 
                                        6
<PAGE>   7
 
                                 THE OFFERINGS
 
<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
Common stock:
  Offered by Goldman Sachs(1)...............................   51,000,000   shares
  Offered by Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. ...........    9,000,000   shares
  Offered by Kamehameha Activities Association(2)...........    9,000,000   shares
                                                              -----------
     Total..................................................   69,000,000   shares
                                                              ===========
  U.S. offering.............................................   55,200,000   shares
  International offering....................................    9,200,000   shares
  Asia/Pacific offering.....................................    4,600,000   shares
                                                              -----------
     Total..................................................   69,000,000   shares
                                                              ===========
Shares outstanding as adjusted for the offerings(3):
  Shares issued in the incorporation transactions(4)........  381,130,459
  Shares contributed to the defined contribution plan.......   12,555,866
                                                              -----------
  Shares outstanding prior to the offerings(5)..............  393,686,325
  Shares offered by Goldman Sachs...........................   51,000,000
                                                              -----------
  Shares outstanding as adjusted for the offerings(6).......  444,686,325
                                                              ===========
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Includes 9,000,000 shares of common stock purchased by the underwriters
    pursuant to the exercise, in full, of options to purchase additional shares
    granted by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. The information in this prospectus
    gives effect to this exercise.
(2) Kamehameha Activities Association is the owner of the shares to be offered.
    The Estate of Bernice Pauahi Bishop, an affiliate of Kamehameha Activities
    Association, is joining in and consenting to the sale.
(3) Excludes 30,025,946 shares of common stock underlying the restricted stock
    units awarded to employees based on a formula, 33,292,869 shares of common
    stock underlying the restricted stock units awarded to employees on a
    discretionary basis and 40,127,592 shares of common stock underlying the
    stock options awarded to employees on a discretionary basis.
(4) Includes 7,440,362 shares of nonvoting common stock issued to Sumitomo Bank
    Capital Markets, Inc. that are convertible into shares of common stock on a
    one-for-one basis.
(5) Shares outstanding, including the shares of common stock underlying the
    restricted stock units awarded to employees based on a formula, are
    423,712,271 prior to the offerings.
(6) For the purpose of calculating basic earnings per share and book value per
    share, shares of common stock and nonvoting common stock outstanding include
    30,025,946 shares of common stock underlying the restricted stock units
    awarded to employees based on a formula since future service is not required
    as a condition to the delivery of the underlying shares of common stock. The
    shares of common stock underlying these restricted stock units generally
    will be issuable and deliverable in equal installments on or about the
    first, second and third anniversaries of the consummation of the offerings,
    assuming the relevant conditions are satisfied.
                            ------------------------
 
Voting Rights..........
                      The holders of common stock will have one vote per share.
 
Dividend Policy........
                      The holders of common stock, as well as the holders of
                      nonvoting common stock, will share proportionately on a
                      per share basis in all dividends and other distributions
                      declared by our board of directors. Our board of directors
                      currently intends to declare quarterly dividends on all
                      outstanding shares and expects that the first quarterly
                      dividend will be $0.12 per share, and that it will be
                      declared during the third quarter of fiscal 1999. For a
                      discussion of the factors that affect the determination by
                      our board of directors to declare dividends, as well as
                      other matters concerning our dividend policy, see
                      "Dividend Policy" and "Business -- Regulation".
 
Use of Proceeds........
                      We will receive net proceeds from our sales of common
                      stock in the offerings of $2.6 billion. We will use the
                      net proceeds to provide additional funds for our
                      operations and for other general corporate purposes,
                      although we have not yet determined a specific use.
                      Pending
 
                                        7
<PAGE>   8
 
                      specific application of the net proceeds, we expect to use
                      them to purchase short-term marketable securities.
 
                      We will not receive any of the proceeds from sales of
                      common stock by Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. or
                      Kamehameha Activities Association in the offerings.
 
Risk Factors...........
                      For a discussion of factors you should consider before
                      buying shares of common stock, see "Risk Factors".
 
New York Stock Exchange
  Symbol...............
                      GS
 
                                        8
<PAGE>   9
 
                      SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The summary historical consolidated income statement and balance sheet data
set forth below have been derived from our consolidated financial statements and
their notes. Our consolidated financial statements have been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent accountants, as of November 28, 1997 and
November 27, 1998 and for the years ended November 29, 1996, November 28, 1997
and November 27, 1998. Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been
reviewed by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as of February 26, 1999 and for the three
months ended February 26, 1999. These financial statements are included
elsewhere in this prospectus, together with the reports thereon of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
 
     The summary historical consolidated income statement and balance sheet data
set forth below as of November 25, 1994, November 24, 1995 and November 29, 1996
and for the years ended November 25, 1994 and November 24, 1995 have been
derived from our audited consolidated financial statements that are not included
in this prospectus.
 
     The summary historical consolidated income statement and balance sheet data
set forth below as of and for the three months ended February 26, 1999 have been
derived from our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements that, in
the opinion of management, include all adjustments, consisting only of normal
recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation. The interim results
set forth below for the three months ended February 26, 1999 may not be
indicative of results for the full year.
 
     The pro forma data set forth below for the year ended November 27, 1998 and
as of and for the three months ended February 26, 1999 have been derived from
the pro forma data set forth in "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information"
included elsewhere in this prospectus. The pro forma consolidated income
statement information set forth in "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
Information" for the year ended November 27, 1998 has been examined by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The pro forma consolidated financial information as
of and for the three months ended February 26, 1999 has been reviewed by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

     In addition to the offerings of common stock, the pro forma adjustments
reflect the transactions described under "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions", compensation and benefits related to services rendered by our
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners, the provision
for corporate income taxes and the other transactions described under "Pro Forma
Consolidated Financial Information".
 
     The summary consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations", "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information" and the consolidated
financial statements and their notes.
 
                                        9
<PAGE>   10
 
                      SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           AS OF OR FOR YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER                AS OF OR FOR
                                                  ---------------------------------------------------      THREE MONTHS
                                                   1994       1995       1996       1997       1998     ENDED FEBRUARY 1999
                                                   ----       ----       ----       ----       ----     -------------------
                                                                                                            (unaudited)
                                                                   (in millions, except per share amounts)
<S>                                               <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
INCOME STATEMENT DATA:
  Net revenues..................................  $ 3,537   $  4,483   $  6,129   $  7,447   $  8,520        $  2,995
  Pre-tax earnings(1)...........................      508      1,368      2,606      3,014      2,921           1,188
 
BALANCE SHEET DATA:
  Total assets(2)...............................  $95,296   $100,066   $152,046   $178,401   $217,380        $230,624
  Long-term borrowings..........................   14,418     13,358     12,376     15,667     19,906          20,405
  Partners' capital.............................    4,771      4,905      5,309      6,107      6,310           6,612
 
PRO FORMA DATA(3):
  Pro forma net earnings........................       --         --         --         --   $  1,256        $    516
  Pro forma diluted earnings per share as
    adjusted for the offerings(4)...............       --         --         --         --       2.62            1.06
  Pro forma stockholders' equity as adjusted for
    the offerings...............................       --         --         --         --         --           7,627
  Pro forma book value per share as adjusted for
    the offerings...............................       --         --         --         --         --           16.07
 
SELECTED DATA AND RATIOS (UNAUDITED):
  Pre-tax return on average partners'
    capital(1)..................................       10%        28%        51%        53%        47%             --
  Ratio of compensation and benefits to net
    revenues(1).................................       51         45         40         42         45              43%
  Assets under supervision:
    Assets under management.....................  $43,671   $ 52,358   $ 94,599   $135,929   $194,821        $206,380
    Other client assets.........................   49,061     57,716     76,892    102,033    142,018         163,315
                                                  -------   --------   --------   --------   --------        --------
  Total assets under supervision................  $92,732   $110,074   $171,491   $237,962   $336,839        $369,695
                                                  =======   ========   ========   ========   ========        ========
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
 (1) Since we have historically operated in partnership form, payments to our
     profit participating limited partners have been accounted for as
     distributions of partners' capital rather than as compensation expense. As
     a result, our pre-tax earnings and compensation and benefits expense have
     not reflected any payments for services rendered by our managing directors
     who were profit participating limited partners. Accordingly, our historical
     pre-tax earnings understate the expected operating costs to be incurred by
     us after the offerings. As a corporation, we will include payments for
     services rendered by our managing directors who were profit participating
     limited partners in compensation and benefits expense. For financial
     information that reflects pro forma compensation and benefits expense as if
     we had been a corporation, see "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
     Information".
 
 (2) Total assets and liabilities were increased by $11.64 billion as of
     November 27, 1998 and $8.99 billion as of February 26, 1999 due to the
     adoption of the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
     No. 125 that were deferred by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
     No. 127. For a discussion of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
     Nos. 125 and 127, see "Accounting Developments" in Note 2 to the audited
     consolidated financial statements.
 
 (3) Reflects such adjustments as are necessary, in the opinion of management,
     for a fair presentation of the results of operations and stockholders'
     equity of Goldman Sachs on a pro forma basis. See "Pro Forma Consolidated
     Financial Information" for more detailed information concerning these
     adjustments.
 
 (4) Calculated based on weighted-average diluted shares outstanding after
     giving effect to the pro forma adjustments and as adjusted to reflect the
     issuance of 51,000,000 shares of common stock offered by Goldman Sachs at
     the initial public offering price set forth on the cover page of this
     prospectus. See "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information" for more
     detailed information concerning these adjustments and the calculation of
     pro forma earnings per share.
 
                                       10
<PAGE>   11
 
                                  RISK FACTORS
 
     An investment in the common stock involves a number of risks, some of
which, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory
risks, could be substantial and are inherent in our businesses. You should
carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with
the other information in this prospectus, before buying shares of common stock.
 
                   MARKET FLUCTUATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT
                          OUR BUSINESSES IN MANY WAYS
 
     As an investment banking and securities firm, our businesses are materially
affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions
generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. The equity
and debt markets in the United States and elsewhere have achieved record or near
record levels, and this favorable business environment will not continue
indefinitely. In the event of a market downturn, our businesses could be
adversely affected in many ways, including those described below. Our revenues
are likely to decline in such circumstances and, if we were unable to reduce
expenses at the same pace, our profit margins would erode. For example, in the
second half of fiscal 1998, we recorded negative net revenues from our Trading
and Principal Investments business and from mid-August to mid-October the number
of equity underwritings and announced mergers and acquisitions transactions in
which we participated declined substantially due to adverse economic and market
conditions. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations -- Business Environment" for a discussion of the market
environment in which we operated during that period. Even in the absence of a
market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market
volatility.
 
We May Incur Significant Losses from Our Trading and Investment Activities Due
to Market Fluctuations and Volatility
 
     We generally maintain large trading and investment positions in the fixed
income, currency, commodity and equity markets. To the extent that we own
assets, i.e., have long positions, in any of those markets, a downturn in those
markets could result in losses from a decline in the value of those long
positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets we do not own,
i.e., have short positions, in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets
could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to cover our short
positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. We may from time to time have
a trading strategy consisting of holding a long position in one asset and a
short position in another, from which we expect to earn revenues based on
changes in the relative value of the two assets. If, however, the relative value
of the two assets changes in a direction or manner that we did not anticipate or
against which we are not hedged, we might realize a loss in those paired
positions. We incurred significant losses in our Trading and Principal
Investments business in the second half of fiscal 1998 from this type of
"relative value" trade. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Business Environment" for a discussion of
those losses and the market environment in which we operated during that period.
In addition, we maintain substantial trading positions that can be adversely
affected by the level of volatility in the financial markets, i.e., the degree
to which trading prices fluctuate over a particular period, in a particular
market, regardless of market levels.
 
Our Investment Banking Revenues May Decline in Adverse Market or Economic
Conditions
 
     Unfavorable financial or economic conditions would likely reduce the number
and size of transactions in which we provide underwriting, mergers and
acquisitions advisory and other services. Our Investment Banking revenues, in
the form of financial advisory and underwriting fees, are directly related to
the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and would
therefore be adversely affected by a sustained market downturn. In particular,
our results of operations would be adversely affected by a significant
 
                                       11
<PAGE>   12
 
reduction in the number or size of mergers and acquisitions transactions.
 
We May Generate Lower Revenues from Commissions and Asset Management Fees in a
Market Downturn
 
     A market downturn could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions
that we execute for our customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues
we receive from commissions and spreads. In addition, because the fees that we
charge for managing our clients' portfolios are in many cases based on the value
of those portfolios, a market downturn that reduces the value of our clients'
portfolios or increases the amount of withdrawals would reduce the revenue we
receive from our asset management business.
 
Holding Large and Concentrated Positions May Expose Us to Large Losses
 
     Concentration of risk in the past has increased the losses that we have
incurred in our arbitrage, market-making, block trading, underwriting and
lending businesses and may continue to do so in the future. Goldman Sachs has
committed substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often
require Goldman Sachs to take large positions in the securities of a particular
issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. Moreover, the
trend in all major capital markets is towards larger and more frequent
commitments of capital in many of these activities. For example, as described
under "Business -- Trading and Principal Investments -- Equities", we are
experiencing an increase in the number and size of block trades that we execute,
and we expect this trend to continue.
 
Our Hedging Strategies May Not Prevent Losses
 
     If any of the variety of instruments and strategies we utilize to hedge our
exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. Many
of our strategies are based on historical trading patterns and correlations. For
example, if we hold a long position in an asset, we may hedge this position by
taking a short position in an asset where the short position has, historically,
moved in a direction that would offset a change in value in the long position.
However, these strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk
exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. We have often
hedged our exposure to corporate fixed income securities by taking a short
position in U.S. Treasury securities, since historically the value of U.S.
Treasury securities has changed in a manner similar to changes in the value of
corporate fixed income securities. Due to the move by investors to higher credit
quality fixed income securities in mid-August to mid-October 1998, however, the
prices for corporate fixed income securities declined while the prices for U.S.
Treasury securities increased and, as a result, we incurred losses on both
positions. Unexpected market developments also affected other hedging strategies
during this time, and unanticipated developments could impact these or different
hedging strategies in the future. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Risk Management" for a
discussion of the policies and procedures we use to identify, monitor and manage
the risks we assume in conducting our businesses and of refinements we have made
to our risk management policies and procedures as a result of our recent
experience.
 
A Prolonged Market Downturn Could Impair Our Operating Results
 
     While we encountered extremely difficult market conditions in mid-August to
mid-October 1998, the financial markets rebounded late in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 1998. At some time in the future, there may be a more sustained period of
market decline or weakness that will leave us operating in a difficult market
environment and subject us to the risks that we describe in this section for a
longer period of time.
 
Market Risk May Increase the Other Risks That We Face
 
     In addition to the potentially adverse effects on our businesses described
above, market risk could exacerbate other risks that we face. For example, if we
incur substantial
 
                                       12
<PAGE>   13
 
trading losses, our need for liquidity could rise sharply while our access to
liquidity could be impaired. In addition, in conjunction with a market downturn,
our customers and counterparties could incur substantial losses of their own,
thereby weakening their financial condition and increasing our credit risk to
them. Our liquidity risk and credit risk are described below.
 
                        OUR RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND
                       PROCEDURES MAY LEAVE US EXPOSED TO
                       UNIDENTIFIED OR UNANTICIPATED RISK
 
     We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management
policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future.
Nonetheless, our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks
may not be fully effective. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon
our use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may
not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the
historical measures indicate. For example, the market movements of the late
third and early fourth quarters of fiscal 1998 were larger and involved greater
divergences in relative asset values than we anticipated. This caused us to
experience trading losses that were greater and recurred more frequently than
some of our risk measures indicated were likely to occur. See "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Business Environment" for a discussion of the market environment
in which we operated during the second half of fiscal 1998 and "-- Risk
Management" for a discussion of the policies and procedures we use to identify,
monitor and manage the risks we assume in conducting our businesses and of
refinements we have made to our risk management policies and procedures as a
result of our recent experience.
 
     Other risk management methods depend upon evaluation of information
regarding markets, clients or other matters that is publicly available or
otherwise accessible by Goldman Sachs. This information may not in all cases be
accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational,
legal and regulatory risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures
to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and
these policies and procedures may not be fully effective.
 
                    LIQUIDITY RISK COULD IMPAIR OUR ABILITY
                     TO FUND OPERATIONS AND JEOPARDIZE OUR
                              FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
     Liquidity, i.e., ready access to funds, is essential to our businesses. In
addition to maintaining a cash position, we rely on three principal sources of
liquidity: borrowing in the debt markets; access to the repurchase and
securities lending markets; and selling securities and other assets. See
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Liquidity" for a discussion of our sources of liquidity.
 
An Inability to Access the Debt Capital Markets Could Impair Our Liquidity
 
     We depend on continuous access to the debt capital markets to finance our
day-to-day operations. An inability to raise money in the long-term or
short-term debt markets, or to engage in repurchase agreements or securities
lending, could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access
to debt in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by
factors that affect Goldman Sachs in particular or the financial services
industry in general. For example, lenders could develop a negative perception of
our long-term or short-term financial prospects if we incurred large trading
losses, if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market
downturn, if regulatory authorities took significant action against us or if we
discovered that one of our employees had engaged in serious unauthorized or
illegal activity. Our ability to borrow in the debt markets also could be
impaired by factors that are not specific to Goldman Sachs, such as a severe
disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the prospects for
the investment banking, securities or financial services industries generally.
 
     We also depend on banks to finance our day-to-day operations. As a result
of the recent consolidation in the banking industry,
 
                                       13
<PAGE>   14
 
some of our lenders have merged or consolidated with other banks and financial
institutions. While we have not been materially adversely affected to date, it
is possible that further consolidation could lead to a loss of a number of our
key banking relationships and a reduction in the amount of credit extended to
us.
 
An Inability to Access the Short-Term Debt Markets Could Impair Our Liquidity
 
     We depend on the issuance of commercial paper and promissory notes as a
principal source of unsecured short-term funding for our operations. As of
February 26, 1999, Goldman Sachs had $21.63 billion of outstanding commercial
paper and promissory notes with a weighted-average maturity of approximately 75
days. Our liquidity depends to an important degree on our ability to refinance
these borrowings on a continuous basis. Investors who hold our outstanding
commercial paper and promissory notes have no obligation to purchase new
instruments when the outstanding instruments mature.
 
Our Liquidity Could Be Adversely Affected If Our Ability to Sell Assets Is
Impaired
 
     If we were unable to borrow in the debt capital markets, we would need to
liquidate assets in order to meet our maturing liabilities. In certain market
environments, such as times of market volatility or uncertainty, overall market
liquidity may decline. In a time of reduced liquidity, we may be unable to sell
some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at depressed prices, which
could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
 
     Our ability to sell our assets may be impaired by other market participants
seeking to sell similar assets into the market at the same time. In the late
third and early fourth quarters of fiscal 1998, for example, the markets for
some assets were adversely affected by simultaneous attempts by a number of
institutions to sell similar assets.
 
A Reduction in Our Credit Ratings Could Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and
Competitive Position and Increase Our Borrowing Costs
 
     Our borrowing costs and our access to the debt capital markets depend
significantly on our credit ratings. These ratings are assigned by rating
agencies, which may reduce or withdraw their ratings or place Goldman Sachs on
"credit watch" with negative implications at any time. Credit ratings are also
important to Goldman Sachs when competing in certain markets and when seeking to
engage in longer-term transactions, including over-the-counter derivatives. A
reduction in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our
access to the capital markets. This, in turn, could reduce our earnings and
adversely affect our liquidity. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity -- Credit Ratings"
for additional information concerning our credit ratings.
 
                    CREDIT RISK EXPOSES US TO LOSSES CAUSED
                         BY FINANCIAL OR OTHER PROBLEMS
                          EXPERIENCED BY THIRD PARTIES
 
     We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities
or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties include our
trading counterparties, customers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses
and other financial intermediaries as well as issuers whose securities we hold.
These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of
liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. This risk may arise, for
example, from holding securities of third parties; entering into swap or other
derivative contracts under which counterparties have long-term obligations to
make payments to us; executing securities, futures, currency or commodity trades
that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty
or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other
financial intermediaries; and extending credit to our clients through bridge or
margin loans or other arrangements. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Risk Manage-
 
                                       14
<PAGE>   15
 
ment -- Credit Risk" for a further discussion of the credit risks to which we
are exposed.
 
We May Suffer Significant Losses from Our Credit Exposures
 
     In recent years, we have significantly expanded our swaps and other
derivatives businesses and placed a greater emphasis on providing credit and
liquidity to our clients. As a result, our credit exposures have increased in
amount and in duration. In addition, as competition in the financial services
industry has increased, we have experienced pressure to assume longer-term
credit risk, extend credit against less liquid collateral and price more
aggressively the credit risks that we take.
 
Our Clients and Counterparties May Be Unable to Perform Their Obligations to Us
as a Result of Economic or Political Conditions
 
     Country, regional and political risks are components of credit risk, as
well as market risk. Economic or political pressures in a country or region,
including those arising from local market disruptions or currency crises, may
adversely affect the ability of clients or counterparties located in that
country or region to obtain foreign exchange or credit and, therefore, to
perform their obligations to us. See "-- We Are Exposed to Special Risks in
Emerging and Other Markets" for a further discussion of our exposure to these
risks.
 
Defaults by a Large Financial Institution Could Adversely Affect Financial
Markets Generally and Us Specifically
 
     The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely
interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships
between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default by, one
institution could lead to significant liquidity problems or losses in, or
defaults by, other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as "systemic
risk" and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing
agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we
interact on a daily basis.
 
     The possibility of default by a major market participant in the second half
of fiscal 1998 and concerns throughout the financial industry regarding the
resulting impact on markets led us to participate in an industry-wide consortium
that invested in Long-Term Capital Portfolio, L.P., which is described under
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Liquidity -- The Balance Sheet". Actual defaults, increases in
perceived default risk and other similar events could arise in the future and
could have an adverse effect on the financial markets and on Goldman Sachs.
 
The Information That We Use in Managing Our Credit Risk May Be Inaccurate or
Incomplete
 
     Although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients and
counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe
may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances
that are difficult to detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive full
information with respect to the trading risks of a counterparty. In addition, in
cases where we have extended credit against collateral, we may find that we are
undersecured, for example, as a result of sudden declines in market values that
reduce the value of collateral.
 
   OUR COMPUTER SYSTEMS AND THOSE OF THIRD PARTIES MAY NOT ACHIEVE YEAR 2000
                  READINESS -- YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE
 
     With the year 2000 approaching, many institutions around the world are
reviewing and modifying their computer systems to ensure that they are Year 2000
compliant. The issue, in general terms, is that many existing computer systems
and microprocessors (including those in non-information technology equipment and
systems) use only two digits to identify a year in the date field with the
assumption that the first two digits of the year are always "19". Consequently,
on January 1, 2000, computers that are not Year 2000 compliant may read the year
as 1900. Systems that calculate, compare or sort using the incorrect date may
malfunction.
 
                                       15
<PAGE>   16
 
Our Computer Systems May Fail
 
     Because we are dependent, to a very substantial degree, upon the proper
functioning of our computer systems, a failure of our systems to be Year 2000
compliant would have a material adverse effect on us. Failure of this kind
could, for example, cause settlement of trades to fail, lead to incomplete or
inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades in securities,
currencies, commodities and other assets, result in generation of erroneous
results or give rise to uncertainty about our exposure to trading risks and our
need for liquidity. If not remedied, potential risks include business
interruption or shutdown, financial loss, regulatory actions, reputational harm
and legal liability.
 
The Computer Systems of Third Parties on Which We Depend May Fail
 
     We depend upon the proper functioning of third-party computer and
non-information technology systems. These parties include trading
counterparties, financial intermediaries such as securities and commodities
exchanges, depositories, clearing agencies, clearing houses and commercial banks
and vendors such as providers of telecommunication services and other utilities.
We continue to assess counterparties, intermediaries and vendors with whom we
have important financial or operational relationships to determine the extent of
their Year 2000 preparedness. We have not yet received sufficient information
from all parties about their Year 2000 preparedness to assess the effectiveness
of their efforts. Moreover, in many cases, we are not in a position to verify
the accuracy or completeness of the information we receive from third parties
and as a result are dependent on their willingness and ability to disclose, and
to address, their Year 2000 problems. In addition, in some international markets
in which we do business, the level of awareness and remediation efforts relating
to the Year 2000 issue may be less advanced than in the United States.
 
     If third parties with whom we interact have Year 2000 problems that are not
remedied, problems could include the following:
 
- - in the case of vendors, disruption of important services upon which Goldman
  Sachs depends, such as telecommunications and electrical power;
 
- - in the case of third-party data providers, receipt of inaccurate or
  out-of-date information that would impair our ability to perform critical data
  functions, such as pricing our securities or other assets;
 
- - in the case of financial intermediaries, such as exchanges and clearing
  agents, failed trade settlements, inability to trade in certain markets and
  disruption of funding flows;
 
- - in the case of banks and other lenders, disruption of capital flows
  potentially resulting in liquidity stress; and
 
- - in the case of counterparties and customers, financial and accounting
  difficulties for those parties that expose Goldman Sachs to increased credit
  risk and lost business.
 
Disruption or suspension of activity in the world's financial markets is also
possible.
 
Our Revenues May Be Adversely Affected If Market Activity Decreases Shortly
Before and After the Year 2000
 
     We believe that uncertainty about the success of remediation efforts
generally may cause many market participants to reduce the level of their market
activities temporarily as they assess the effectiveness of these efforts during
a "phase-in" period beginning in late 1999. We believe that lenders are likely
to take similar steps, which will result in a reduction in available funding
sources. Consequently, there may be a downturn in customer and general market
activity for a short period of time before and after January 1, 2000. If this
occurs, our net revenues may be adversely affected, possibly materially,
depending on how long the reduction in activity continues and how broadly it
affects the markets. In addition, we expect to reduce our own trading activities
and the size of our balance sheet in order to manage the number and type of our
transactions that settle during
 
                                       16
<PAGE>   17
 
this period and our related funding needs. This also could reduce our net
revenues. We cannot predict the magnitude of the impact that these kinds of
reductions would have on our businesses.
 
We May Be Exposed to Litigation as a Result of Year 2000 Problems
 
     We may be exposed to litigation with our customers and counterparties as a
result of Year 2000 problems. For example, litigation could arise from problems
relating to our internal systems or to external systems on which we depend, as
well as from problems involving companies in which our clients or the funds we
manage hold investments.
 
Our Year 2000 Program May Not Be Effective and Our Estimates of Timing and Cost
May Not Be Accurate
 
     Our Year 2000 program may not be effective and our estimates about the
timing and cost of completing our program may not be accurate. For a description
of our program and the steps that remain to be taken, see "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Risk
Management -- Operational and Year 2000 Risks -- Year 2000 Readiness
Disclosure".
 
                    OTHER OPERATIONAL RISKS MAY DISRUPT OUR
                    BUSINESSES, RESULT IN REGULATORY ACTION
                         AGAINST US OR LIMIT OUR GROWTH
 
     We face operational risk arising from mistakes made in the confirmation or
settlement of transactions or from transactions not being properly recorded,
evaluated or accounted for. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability
to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and
diverse markets in many currencies, and the transactions we process have become
increasingly complex. Consequently, we rely heavily on our financial, accounting
and other data processing systems. If any of these systems do not operate
properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our
businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational
damage. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of
transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. In
recent years, we have substantially upgraded and expanded the capabilities of
our data processing systems and other operating technology, and we expect that
we will need to continue to upgrade and expand in the future to avoid disruption
of, or constraints on, our operations.
 
                  LEGAL AND REGULATORY RISKS ARE INHERENT AND
                         SUBSTANTIAL IN OUR BUSINESSES
 
     Substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against
Goldman Sachs could have a material financial effect or cause significant
reputational harm to Goldman Sachs, which in turn could seriously harm our
business prospects.
 
Our Exposure to Legal Liability Is Significant
 
     We face significant legal risks in our businesses and the volume and amount
of damages claimed in litigation against financial intermediaries are
increasing. These risks include potential liability under securities or other
laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with
securities and other transactions, potential liability for the "fairness
opinions" and other advice we provide to participants in corporate transactions
and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. We
also face the possibility that counterparties in complex or risky trading
transactions will claim that we improperly failed to tell them of the risks or
that they were not authorized or permitted to enter into these transactions with
us and that their obligations to Goldman Sachs are not enforceable. Particularly
in our rapidly growing business focused on high net worth individuals, we are
increasingly exposed to claims against Goldman Sachs for recommending
investments that are not consistent with a client's investment objectives or
engaging in unauthorized or excessive trading. During a prolonged market
downturn, we would expect these types of claims to increase. We are also subject
to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or
harassment, among other things. These risks often may be difficult to assess or
quantify and their existence and
 
                                       17
<PAGE>   18
 
magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. We incur
significant legal expenses every year in defending against litigation, and we
expect to continue to do so in the future. See "Business -- Legal Matters" for a
discussion of some of the legal matters in which we are currently involved.
 
Extensive Regulation of Our Businesses Limits Our Activities and May Subject Us
to Significant Penalties
 
     The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. Goldman
Sachs is subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations
in the United States and in virtually all other jurisdictions in which it
operates around the world.
 
     The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the
integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third
parties who deal with Goldman Sachs and are not designed to protect our
shareholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our
activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market
conduct requirements. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory
authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity,
adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative
proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. Among other things, we
could be fined or prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities.
See "Business -- Regulation" for a further discussion of the regulatory
environment in which we conduct our businesses.
 
Legal Restrictions on Our Clients May Reduce the Demand for Our Services
 
     New laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or
regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our businesses.
For example, changes in antitrust enforcement could affect the level of mergers
and acquisitions activity and changes in regulation could restrict the
activities of our clients and, therefore, the services we provide on their
behalf.
 
                         EMPLOYEE MISCONDUCT COULD HARM
                       GOLDMAN SACHS AND IS DIFFICULT TO
                                DETECT AND DETER
 
     There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or
other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent
years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. Misconduct by
employees could include binding Goldman Sachs to transactions that exceed
authorized limits or present unacceptable risks, or hiding from Goldman Sachs
unauthorized or unsuccessful activities, which, in either case, may result in
unknown and unmanaged risks or losses. Employee misconduct could also involve
the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result
in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not
always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to
prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.
 
                  THE FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY IS INTENSELY
                     COMPETITIVE AND RAPIDLY CONSOLIDATING
 
     The financial services industry -- and all of our businesses -- are
intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete on the basis
of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and
services, innovation, reputation and price. We have experienced intense price
competition in some of our businesses in recent years, such as underwriting fees
on investment grade debt offerings and privatizations. We believe we may
experience pricing pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of
our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.
 
We Face Increased Competition Due to a Trend Toward Consolidation
 
     In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence
among companies in the financial services industry. In particular, a number of
large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial
services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with
other financial institutions. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a
wide
 
                                       18
<PAGE>   19
 
range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, asset
management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive
position. They also have the ability to support investment banking and
securities products with commercial banking, insurance and other financial
services revenues in an effort to gain market share, which could result in
pricing pressure in our businesses.
 
Consolidation Has Increased Our Need for Capital
 
     This trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly increased
the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. This trend has also
hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services
markets. As a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international
operations and to execute large global transactions.
 
Our Ability to Expand Internationally Will
Depend on Our Ability to Compete Successfully with Local Financial Institutions
 
     We believe that some of our most significant challenges and opportunities
will arise outside the United States, as described under "Industry and Economic
Outlook". In order to take advantage of these opportunities, we will have to
compete successfully with financial institutions based in important non-U.S.
markets, particularly in Europe. Some of these institutions are larger, better
capitalized and have a stronger local presence and a longer operating history in
these markets.
 
Our Revenues May Decline Due to Competition from Alternative Trading Systems
 
     Securities and futures transactions are now being conducted through the
Internet and other alternative, non-traditional trading systems, and it appears
that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably
accelerate. A dramatic increase in computer-based or other electronic trading
may adversely affect our commission and trading revenues, reduce our
participation in the trading markets and associated access to market information
and lead to the creation of new and stronger competitors.
 
                       WE ARE EXPOSED TO SPECIAL RISKS IN
                           EMERGING AND OTHER MARKETS
 
     In conducting our businesses in major markets around the world, including
many developing markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe, we are
subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are
inherent in operating in other countries. These risks range from difficulties in
settling transactions in emerging markets to possible nationalization,
expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions. We
also face the risk that exchange controls or similar restrictions imposed by
foreign governmental authorities may restrict our ability to convert local
currency received or held by us in their countries into U.S. dollars or other
currencies, or to take those dollars or other currencies out of those countries.
 
     To date, a relatively small part of our businesses has been conducted in
emerging and other markets. As we expand our businesses in these areas, our
exposure to these risks will increase.
 
Turbulence in Emerging Markets May Adversely Affect Our Businesses
 
     In the last several years, various emerging market countries have
experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant
devaluations of their currencies and low or negative growth rates in their
economies. The possible effects of these conditions include an adverse impact on
our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally.
Moreover, economic or market problems in a single country or region are
increasingly affecting other markets generally. For example, the economic crisis
in Russia in August 1998 adversely affected other emerging markets and led to
turmoil in financial markets worldwide. See "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Business
Environment" for a discussion of the business environment in which we operated
during the second half of fiscal 1998. A continuation of these situations could
adversely affect global economic conditions and world markets and, in turn,
could adversely affect our businesses. Among the risks are
 
                                       19
<PAGE>   20
regional or global market downturns and, as noted above, increasing liquidity
and credit risks, particularly in Japan where the economy continues to be weak
and we have significant exposure.
 
Compliance with Local Laws and Regulations May Be Difficult
 
     In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities
and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be
difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every
market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular
foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our
businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. These
uncertainties may also make it difficult for us to structure our transactions in
such a way that the results we expect to achieve are legally enforceable in all
cases. See "-- Legal and Regulatory Risks Are Inherent and Substantial in Our
Businesses -- Our Exposure to Legal Liability Is Significant" for additional
information concerning these matters and "Business -- Regulation" for a
discussion of the regulatory environment in which we conduct our businesses.
 
                        OUR CONVERSION TO CORPORATE FORM
                  MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO RECRUIT,
                       RETAIN AND MOTIVATE KEY EMPLOYEES
 
     Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly
skilled individuals. Competition in the financial services industry for
qualified employees is intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively in
our businesses depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and
motivate our existing employees.
 
     In connection with the offerings and the conversion of Goldman Sachs from
partnership to corporate form, the managing directors who were profit
participating limited partners will receive substantial amounts of common stock
in exchange for their interests in Goldman Sachs. Because these shares of common
stock will be received in exchange for partnership interests, ownership of these
shares will not be dependent upon these partners' continued employment. However,
these shares will be subject to certain restrictions on transfer under a
shareholders' agreement and a portion may be pledged to support these partners'
obligations under noncompetition agreements. The transfer restrictions under the
shareholders' agreement may, however, be waived, as described under "Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions -- Shareholders' Agreement -- Transfer
Restrictions" and "-- Waivers". The steps we have taken to encourage the
continued service of these individuals after the offerings may not be effective.
For a description of the compensation plan for our senior professionals to be
implemented after the offerings, see "Management -- The Partner Compensation
Plan".
 
     In connection with the offerings and conversion of Goldman Sachs from
partnership to corporate form, employees, other than the managing directors who
were profit participating limited partners, will receive grants of restricted
stock units, stock options or interests in a defined contribution plan. The
incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees provided by these awards or
by future arrangements may not be as effective as the opportunity, which existed
prior to conversion, to become a partner of Goldman Sachs. See
"Management -- The Employee Initial Public Offering Awards" for a description of
these awards.
 
 GOLDMAN SACHS WILL BE CONTROLLED BY ITS MANAGING DIRECTORS WHOSE INTERESTS MAY
                    DIFFER FROM THOSE OF OTHER SHAREHOLDERS
 
     Upon completion of the offerings, our managing directors will collectively
own not less than 281,000,000 shares of common stock, or 60% of the total shares
of common stock outstanding, which includes the shares of common stock
underlying the restricted stock units to be awarded based on a formula. These
shares will be subject to a shareholders' agreement, which will provide for
coordinated voting by the parties. Further, both Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets,
Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association, which together will own 43,400,473
shares of common stock, or 9.3% of the total shares of common stock outstanding
after consummation of the offerings, have agreed to vote their shares of common
stock in the same manner as a majority of the shares held by our
 
                                       20
<PAGE>   21
 
managing directors are voted. See "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions -- Shareholders' Agreement -- Voting" and "-- Voting Agreement" for
a discussion of these voting arrangements.
 
     As a result of these arrangements, the managing directors initially will be
able to elect our entire board of directors, control the management and policies
of Goldman Sachs and, in general, determine, without the consent of the other
shareholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted
to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale
of all or substantially all of the assets of Goldman Sachs. The managing
directors initially will be able to prevent or cause a change in control of
Goldman Sachs.
 
Provisions of Our Organizational Documents May Discourage an Acquisition of
Goldman Sachs
 
     Our organizational documents contain provisions that will impede the
removal of directors and may discourage a third party from making a proposal to
acquire us. For example, our board of directors may, without the consent of
shareholders, issue preferred stock with greater voting rights than the common
stock. See "Description of Capital Stock -- Certain Anti-Takeover Matters" for a
discussion of these anti-takeover provisions.
 
                     OUR SHARE PRICE MAY DECLINE DUE TO THE
                        LARGE NUMBER OF SHARES ELIGIBLE
                                FOR FUTURE SALE
 
     Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the possibility of such
sales, may adversely affect the price of the common stock and impede our ability
to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. See "Shares Eligible
for Future Sale" for a discussion of possible future sales of common stock.
 
     Upon consummation of the offerings, there will be 467,271,909 shares of
common stock outstanding. Of these shares, the 69,000,000 shares of common stock
sold in the offerings will be freely transferable without restriction or further
registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The remaining 398,271,909 shares
of common stock will be available for future sale upon the expiration or the
waiver of transfer restrictions or in accordance with registration rights. See
"Shares Eligible for Future Sale" for a discussion of the shares of common stock
that may be sold into the public market in the future.
 
                         OUR COMMON STOCK MAY TRADE AT
                        PRICES BELOW THE INITIAL PUBLIC
                                 OFFERING PRICE
 
     The price of the common stock after the offerings may fluctuate widely,
depending upon many factors, including the perceived prospects of Goldman Sachs
and the securities and financial services industries in general, differences
between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by
investors and analysts, changes in analysts' recommendations or projections,
changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations.
The common stock may trade at prices significantly below the initial public
offering price.
 
                       THE LIQUIDITY OF OUR COMMON STOCK
                   MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY AN INABILITY
                      OF GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO. TO ACT AS A
                        MARKET-MAKER IN THE COMMON STOCK
 
     We will list the common stock on the NYSE. The NYSE listing does not,
however, guarantee that a trading market for the common stock will develop or,
if a market does develop, the liquidity of that market for the common stock.
 
     After the offerings, because Goldman, Sachs & Co. is a member of the NYSE
and because of Goldman, Sachs & Co.'s relationship to us, it will not be
permitted under the rules of the NYSE to make markets in, or recommendations
regarding the purchase or sale of, the common stock. This may adversely affect
the trading market for the common stock.
 
                   WE EXPECT TO RECORD A SUBSTANTIAL PRE-TAX
                   LOSS IN THE SECOND QUARTER OF FISCAL 1999
 
     We expect to record a substantial pre-tax loss in the second quarter of
fiscal 1999 due to a number of nonrecurring items described under "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Results of Operations".
                                       21
<PAGE>   22
 
                                USE OF PROCEEDS
 
     Based upon the initial public offering price of $53.00 per share, Goldman
Sachs will receive net proceeds from the U.S., international and Asia/Pacific
offerings of $2.6 billion, after deducting the underwriting discounts and
estimated expenses that are payable by Goldman Sachs in the offerings. The above
amounts do not include underwriting discounts that will be received by Goldman,
Sachs & Co., Goldman Sachs International and Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C. as
underwriters in the offerings. We will use the net proceeds to provide
additional funds for our operations and for other general corporate purposes,
although we have not yet determined a specific use. Pending specific application
of the net proceeds, we intend to use them to purchase short-term marketable
securities.
 
     We will not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of shares of our
common stock by Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. or Kamehameha Activities
Association.
 
                                DIVIDEND POLICY
 
     The holders of common stock and nonvoting common stock of Goldman Sachs
will share proportionately on a per share basis in all dividends and other
distributions declared by our board of directors. Our board of directors
currently intends to declare quarterly dividends on all outstanding shares of
common stock and nonvoting common stock and expects that the first quarterly
dividend will be $0.12 per share, and that it will be declared during the third
quarter of fiscal 1999.
 
     The declaration of dividends by Goldman Sachs is subject to the discretion
of our board of directors. Our board of directors will take into account such
matters as general business conditions, our financial results, capital
requirements, contractual, legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of
dividends by us to our shareholders or by our subsidiaries to us, the effect on
our debt ratings and such other factors as our board of directors may deem
relevant. See "Business -- Regulation" for a discussion of potential regulatory
limitations on our receipt of funds from our regulated subsidiaries.
 
                                       22
<PAGE>   23
 
                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON
              PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
 
To the Partners,
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.:
 
     We have examined the pro forma adjustments reflecting (i) the incorporation
transactions and the related transactions described under "Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions -- Incorporation and Related Transactions"; (ii)
compensation to managing directors who were profit participating limited
partners; (iii) compensation in the form of restricted stock units awarded to
employees in lieu of ongoing cash compensation; and (iv) the provision for
corporate income taxes (collectively, the "Pro Forma Adjustments"), and the
offerings, all as described in Note 2 to the Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
Information (included on pages 25 to 31 of this prospectus) and the application
of those adjustments to the historical amounts in the Pro Forma Consolidated
Income Statement Information for the year ended November 27, 1998. The
historical consolidated income statement information is derived from the
historical consolidated financial statements of Goldman Sachs, which were
audited by us and which are included elsewhere in this prospectus. The Pro Forma
Adjustments are based upon management's assumptions described in Note 2 to the
Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information. Our examination was made in
accordance with standards established by the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants and, accordingly, included such procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances.
 
     The objective of this pro forma consolidated financial information is to
show what the significant effects on the historical income statement information
of Goldman Sachs might have been had the Pro Forma Adjustments and the offerings
occurred at an earlier date. However, the Pro Forma Consolidated Income
Statement Information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations
that would have been attained had the above-mentioned Pro Forma Adjustments and
the offerings actually occurred earlier.
 
     In our opinion, management's assumptions provide a reasonable basis for
presenting the significant effects directly attributable to the above-mentioned
Pro Forma Adjustments and the offerings, all as described in Note 2 to the Pro
Forma Consolidated Financial Information, the related pro forma adjustments give
appropriate effect to those assumptions, and the "Pro Forma" and "Pro Forma as
Adjusted for Offerings" columns reflect the proper application of those
adjustments to the historical consolidated income statement amounts in the Pro
Forma Consolidated Income Statement Information for the year ended November 27,
1998.
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
New York, New York
May 3, 1999.
 
                                       23
<PAGE>   24
 
                  REVIEW REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON
                  PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
To the Partners,
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.:
 
     We have reviewed the pro forma adjustments reflecting (i) the incorporation
transactions and the related transactions described under "Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions -- Incorporation and Related Transactions"; (ii)
compensation to managing directors who were profit participating limited
partners; (iii) compensation in the form of restricted stock units awarded to
employees in lieu of ongoing cash compensation; (iv) the provision for corporate
income taxes; (v) the redemption of Goldman Sachs' senior limited partnership
interests; (vi) cash distributions by The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. to its
partners in the second quarter of fiscal 1999 in accordance with the Goldman
Sachs partnership agreement, including distributions for partner income taxes
related to Goldman Sachs' earnings in the first quarter of fiscal 1999, capital
withdrawals by the managing directors who were profit participating limited
partners, Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities
Association and distributions to satisfy obligations to retired limited
partners; and (vii) the recognition of net tax assets (collectively, the "Pro
Forma Adjustments"), and the offerings, all as described in Note 2 to the Pro
Forma Consolidated Financial Information (included on pages 25 to 31 of this
prospectus) and the application of those adjustments to the historical amounts
in the Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet Information as of February 26, 1999
and the Pro Forma Consolidated Income Statement Information for the three months
then ended. The historical consolidated financial statement information is
derived from the historical condensed consolidated financial statements of
Goldman Sachs, which were reviewed by us and which are included elsewhere in
this prospectus. The Pro Forma Adjustments are based upon management's
assumptions described in Note 2 to the Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
Information. Our review was made in accordance with standards established by the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
 
     A review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective
of which is the expression of an opinion on management's assumptions, the pro
forma adjustments and the application of those adjustments to historical
financial information. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
 
     The objective of this pro forma consolidated financial information is to
show what the significant effects on the historical financial information of
Goldman Sachs might have been had the Pro Forma Adjustments and the offerings
occurred at an earlier date. However, the Pro Forma Consolidated Income
Statement Information and the Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet Information
are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations or related effects
on financial position that would have been attained had the above-mentioned Pro
Forma Adjustments and the offerings actually occurred earlier.
 
     Based on our review, nothing came to our attention that caused us to
believe that management's assumptions do not provide a reasonable basis for
presenting the significant effects directly attributable to the above-mentioned
Pro Forma Adjustments and the offerings, all as described in Note 2 to the Pro
Forma Consolidated Financial Information, that the related pro forma adjustments
do not give appropriate effect to those assumptions, or that the "Pro Forma" and
"Pro Forma as Adjusted for Offerings" columns do not reflect the proper
application of those adjustments to the historical consolidated financial
statement amounts in the Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet Information as of
February 26, 1999 and the Pro Forma Consolidated Income Statement Information
for the three months then ended.
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
New York, New York
May 3, 1999.
 
                                       24
<PAGE>   25
 
                  PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
     The following Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information is based upon
the historical consolidated financial statements of Goldman Sachs. In addition
to the offerings, this information reflects the pro forma effects of the
following items:
 
- - the incorporation transactions and the related transactions described under
  "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions -- Incorporation and Related
  Transactions";
 
- - compensation to managing directors who were profit participating limited
  partners;
 
- - compensation in the form of restricted stock units awarded to employees in
  lieu of ongoing cash compensation;
 
- - the provision for corporate income taxes;
 
- - the redemption of our senior limited partnership interests;
 
- - cash distributions by The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. to its partners in the
  second quarter of fiscal 1999 in accordance with its partnership agreement,
  including distributions for partner income taxes related to earnings in the
  first quarter of fiscal 1999, capital withdrawals by the managing directors
  who were profit participating limited partners, Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets,
  Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association and distributions to satisfy
  obligations to retired limited partners; and
 
- - the recognition of net tax assets.
 
These items are collectively referred to as the "Pro Forma Adjustments".
 
     The Pro Forma Consolidated Income Statement Information does not give
effect to the following items because of their non-recurring nature:
 
- - the restricted stock units awarded to employees based on a formula;
 
- - the initial irrevocable contribution of shares of common stock to the defined
  contribution plan;
 
- - the recognition of net tax assets; and
 
- - a contribution to the Goldman Sachs Fund, a charitable foundation.
 
     The Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet Information, however, does give
effect to these non-recurring items.
 
     The Pro Forma Adjustments are based upon available information and certain
assumptions that management believes are reasonable. The Pro Forma Consolidated
Financial Information and accompanying notes should be read in conjunction with
the consolidated financial statements and their notes.
 
     THE PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION PRESENTED IS NOT
NECESSARILY INDICATIVE OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR FINANCIAL POSITION THAT
MIGHT HAVE OCCURRED HAD THE PRO FORMA ADJUSTMENTS ACTUALLY TAKEN PLACE AS OF THE
DATES SPECIFIED, OR THAT MAY BE EXPECTED TO OCCUR IN THE FUTURE.
 
                                       25
<PAGE>   26
 
              PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
                      (in millions, except per share data)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 27, 1998
                                              ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                              PRO FORMA
                                                             PRO FORMA                      ADJUSTMENT       AS ADJUSTED
                                              HISTORICAL    ADJUSTMENTS     PRO FORMA      FOR OFFERINGS    FOR OFFERINGS
                                              ----------    -----------    ------------    -------------    -------------
<S>                                           <C>           <C>            <C>             <C>              <C>
Total revenues..............................   $22,478        $    --        $22,478           $  --           $22,478
Interest expense, principally on short-term
  funding...................................    13,958             28(a)      13,986              --            13,986
                                               -------        -------        -------           -----           -------
Revenues, net of interest expense...........     8,520            (28)         8,492              --             8,492
Compensation and benefits, excluding
  employee initial public offering awards...     3,838            303(b)       4,141              --             4,141
Employee initial public offering awards.....        --            461(c)         461              --               461
Other operating expenses....................     1,761             --          1,761              --             1,761
                                               -------        -------        -------           -----           -------
Total operating expenses....................     5,599            764          6,363              --             6,363
Pre-tax earnings............................     2,921           (792)         2,129              --             2,129
Provision for taxes.........................       493            380(d)         873              --               873
                                               -------        -------        -------           -----           -------
Net earnings................................   $ 2,428        $(1,172)       $ 1,256           $  --           $ 1,256
                                               =======        =======        =======           =====           =======
Shares outstanding:
  Basic.....................................                                     424(e)           51(f)            475
  Diluted...................................                                     428(e)           51(f)            479
Earnings per share:
  Basic.....................................                                 $  2.96                           $  2.65
  Diluted...................................                                    2.93                              2.62
</TABLE>
 
              PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
                                  (unaudited)
                      (in millions, except per share data)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 THREE MONTHS ENDED FEBRUARY 26, 1999
                                              ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                              PRO FORMA
                                                             PRO FORMA                      ADJUSTMENT       AS ADJUSTED
                                              HISTORICAL    ADJUSTMENTS     PRO FORMA      FOR OFFERINGS    FOR OFFERINGS
                                              ----------    -----------    ------------    -------------    -------------
<S>                                           <C>           <C>            <C>             <C>              <C>
Total revenues..............................   $ 5,856        $    --        $ 5,856           $  --           $ 5,856
Interest expense, principally on short-term
  funding...................................     2,861              7(a)       2,868              --             2,868
                                               -------        -------        -------           -----           -------
Revenues, net of interest expense...........     2,995             (7)         2,988              --             2,988
Compensation and benefits, excluding
  employee initial public offering awards...     1,275            191(b)       1,466              --             1,466
Employee initial public offering awards.....        --            115(c)         115              --               115
Other operating expenses....................       532             --            532              --               532
                                               -------        -------        -------           -----           -------
Total operating expenses....................     1,807            306          2,113              --             2,113
Pre-tax earnings............................     1,188           (313)           875              --               875
Provision for taxes.........................       181            178(d)         359              --               359
                                               -------        -------        -------           -----           -------
Net earnings................................   $ 1,007        $  (491)       $   516           $  --           $   516
                                               =======        =======        =======           =====           =======
Shares outstanding:
  Basic.....................................                                     427(e)           51(f)            478
  Diluted...................................                                     437(e)           51(f)            488
Earnings per share:
  Basic.....................................                                 $  1.21                           $  1.08
  Diluted...................................                                    1.18                              1.06
</TABLE>
 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Pro Forma Consolidated
                             Financial Information.
                                       26
<PAGE>   27
 
                PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION
                                  (unaudited)
                      (in millions, except per share data)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       AS OF FEBRUARY 26, 1999
                                               ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                            PRO FORMA
                                                              PRO FORMA                   ADJUSTMENT       AS ADJUSTED
                                               HISTORICAL    ADJUSTMENTS    PRO FORMA    FOR OFFERINGS    FOR OFFERINGS
                                               ----------    -----------    ---------    -------------    -------------
<S>                                            <C>           <C>            <C>          <C>              <C>
Cash and cash equivalents....................   $  3,345       $  (200)(g)  $    134        $2,568(f)       $  2,702
                                                                  (891)(h)
                                                                  (888)(i)
                                                                (1,232)(k)
Other........................................    227,279         1,815 (l)   229,094            --           229,094
                                                --------       -------      --------        ------          --------
Total assets.................................   $230,624       $(1,396)     $229,228        $2,568          $231,796
                                                ========       =======      ========        ======          ========
 
Long-term borrowings.........................   $ 20,405       $   371 (a)  $ 20,776        $   --          $ 20,776
Other........................................    203,228           165 (b)   203,393            --           203,393
                                                --------       -------      --------        ------          --------
Total liabilities............................    223,633           536       224,169            --           224,169
Partners' capital, partners' capital
  allocated for income taxes and potential
  withdrawals, and accumulated other
  comprehensive income.......................      6,991          (371)(a)
                                                                  (891)(h)
                                                                  (888)(i)
                                                                (3,609)(j)
                                                                (1,232)(k)
                                                --------       -------      --------        ------          --------
Total partnership capital....................      6,991        (6,991)           --            --                --
Common stock and nonvoting common stock, par
  value $0.01 per share......................         --             4 (j)         4            --                 4
Restricted stock units.......................         --         3,356 (m)     3,356            --             3,356
Additional paid-in capital...................         --         3,605 (j)     4,271         2,568(f)          6,839
                                                                   666 (m)
Retained earnings............................         --          (165)(b)      (807)           --              (807)
                                                                  (200)(g)
                                                                 1,815 (l)
                                                                (2,257)(m)
Unearned compensation........................         --        (1,765)(m)    (1,765)           --            (1,765)
                                                --------       -------      --------        ------          --------
Total stockholders' equity...................         --         5,059         5,059         2,568             7,627
Total liabilities, partnership capital and
  stockholders' equity.......................   $230,624       $(1,396)     $229,228        $2,568          $231,796
                                                ========       =======      ========        ======          ========
 
Book value per share.........................                               $  11.94                        $  16.07
</TABLE>
 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Pro Forma Consolidated
                             Financial Information.
                                       27
<PAGE>   28
 
             NOTES TO PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
NOTE 1: BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
     As permitted by the rules and regulations of the SEC, the Pro Forma
Consolidated Financial Information is presented on a condensed basis. The Pro
Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet Information was prepared as if the Pro Forma
Adjustments had occurred as of February 26, 1999. Book value per share equals
stockholders' equity divided by the shares of common stock and nonvoting common
stock outstanding, including the shares of common stock underlying the
restricted stock units awarded to employees based on a formula, of 423,712,271
prior to the offerings and 474,712,271 as adjusted for the offerings. See Note
2(e) below for a further discussion of shares outstanding.
 
     The Pro Forma Consolidated Income Statement Information for the fiscal year
ended November 27, 1998 and the three-month fiscal period ended February 26,
1999 was prepared as if the Pro Forma Adjustments had taken place at the
beginning of fiscal 1998.
 
     For pro forma purposes, the offerings and, where applicable, the related
transactions reflect the initial public offering price of $53.00 per share.
 
NOTE 2: PRO FORMA ADJUSTMENTS AND ADJUSTMENT FOR OFFERINGS
 
     (a) RETIRED LIMITED PARTNERS EXCHANGE OF INTERESTS FOR
DEBENTURES.  Adjustment to reflect the issuance of junior subordinated
debentures to the retired limited partners in exchange for their interests in
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and certain affiliates. These junior subordinated
debentures will have a principal amount of $295 million, an initial carrying
value of $371 million and an effective interest rate of 7.5%. The annual
interest expense to be recorded on these debentures in the first year will be
$28 million.
 
     (b) COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS, EXCLUDING EMPLOYEE INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING
AWARDS. Since Goldman Sachs has operated as a partnership, there is no
meaningful historical measure of the compensation and benefits that would have
been paid, in corporate form, to the managing directors who were profit
participating limited partners for services rendered in fiscal 1998 and in the
three months ended February 26, 1999. Accordingly, management has estimated
these amounts, which are substantially performance-based, by reference to a pro
forma ratio of total compensation and benefits to net revenues that it deemed
appropriate for Goldman Sachs as a whole, given the historical operating results
in these periods. As a result, additional compensation and benefits expense
related to the managing directors who were profit participating limited partners
of $427 million in fiscal 1998 and $242 million in the three months ended
February 26, 1999 has been recorded on the Pro Forma Consolidated Income
Statement Information.
 
     The future compensation and benefits related to services rendered by the
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners will be based
upon measures of financial performance, including net revenues, pre-tax earnings
and the ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues, as described under
"Management -- The Partner Compensation Plan -- Determination of Salary and
Bonus". Management anticipates that, consistent with industry practice, it will
adjust the form and structure of its compensation arrangements to achieve a
relationship of compensation and benefits to net revenues within a range that it
believes is appropriate given prevailing market conditions.
 
     In addition to the employee initial public offering awards, restricted
stock units will also be granted to employees in lieu of a portion of ongoing
cash compensation. Of the total restricted stock units assumed to be granted in
lieu of cash compensation, 50% will require future service as a condition to the
delivery of the underlying shares of common stock. In accordance with Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, the restricted stock units with future service
requirements will be recorded as compensation expense over the four-year service
period
 
                                       28
<PAGE>   29
      NOTES TO PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION -- (CONTINUED)
 
following the date of grant. Goldman Sachs expects to record this expense over
the service period as follows: 52%, 28%, 14% and 6% in years one, two, three and
four, respectively. If these stock-based awards had been made from the beginning
of fiscal 1998, historical compensation expense would have been reduced by $124
million in fiscal 1998 and $51 million in the three months ended February 26,
1999 because a portion of cash compensation recorded in these periods would have
been replaced by restricted stock units with future service requirements. These
reductions are reflected in the Pro Forma Consolidated Income Statement
Information.
 
     The adjustment of $165 million to the Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet
Information reflects the additional compensation and benefits that we would have
recorded assuming the Pro Forma Adjustments had occurred as of February 26,
1999. This adjustment includes $232 million in compensation and benefits related
to the managing directors who were profit participating limited partners offset
by a reduction of $67 million related to the issuance of restricted stock units
to employees, in lieu of a portion of cash compensation, for which future
service is required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying shares of
common stock. This adjustment to the Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet
Information excludes the compensation expense of $26 million in the first
quarter of fiscal 1999 related to the portion of restricted stock units that,
for pro forma income statement purposes only, were assumed to be awarded in
fiscal 1998. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations -- Results of Operations -- Operating Expenses" for a
discussion of the actual expense we expect to record in the second quarter of
fiscal 1999.
 
     (c) EXPENSE RELATED TO EMPLOYEE INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING AWARDS.  Adjustment
to reflect the amortization of the 33,292,869 restricted stock units awarded to
employees on a discretionary basis. These restricted stock units will have a
value of $1,765 million, approximately 26% of which will be amortized as a
non-cash expense in the twelve months following the date of grant. The remaining
74% of the value of these restricted stock units will be amortized over the next
four years as follows: 26%, 26%, 15% and 7% in years two, three, four and five,
respectively.
 
     The options to purchase 40,127,592 shares of common stock awarded to
employees on a discretionary basis will be accounted for pursuant to Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, as permitted by paragraph 5 of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123. Since these options will have no
intrinsic value on the date of grant, no compensation expense will be
recognized.
 
     The estimated fair value of these discretionary options on the date of
grant is $709 million using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. If Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 had been applied, compensation expense
of $185 million and $46 million would have been included in the Pro Forma
Consolidated Income Statement Information in fiscal 1998 and the three months
ended February 26, 1999, respectively. See "Management -- The Employee Initial
Public Offering Awards" for a description of these awards.
 
     (d) PRO FORMA PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES.  Adjustment to reflect a pro
forma provision for income taxes for Goldman Sachs in corporate form at an
effective tax rate of 41%.
 
     (e) PRO FORMA COMMON STOCK AND NONVOTING COMMON STOCK.  Shares outstanding,
computed on a weighted-average basis, after giving effect to the Pro Forma
Adjustments. For the purpose of calculating basic earnings per share and book
value per share, shares outstanding prior to the offerings includes the
nonvoting common stock, the shares of common stock irrevocably contributed to
the defined contribution plan and, pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 128, the shares of common stock underlying the restricted stock
units awarded to employees based on a formula since future service is not
required as a condition to the
                                       29
<PAGE>   30
      NOTES TO PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION -- (CONTINUED)
 
delivery of the underlying shares of common stock.
 
     With respect to the three months ended February 26, 1999, pro forma basic
shares outstanding also includes the shares of common stock underlying the
restricted stock units assumed to be awarded in lieu of ongoing cash
compensation in fiscal 1998 for which future service would not have been
required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying shares of common
stock.
 
     Pro forma diluted shares outstanding prior to the offerings reflects the
dilutive effect of the common stock deliverable pursuant to the restricted stock
units awarded to employees on a discretionary basis, and, with respect to the
three months ended February 26, 1999, the dilutive effect of the shares of
common stock underlying the restricted stock units assumed to be awarded in lieu
of ongoing cash compensation in fiscal 1998 for which future service would have
been required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying shares of common
stock.
 
     (f) ADJUSTMENT FOR THE OFFERINGS. Shares as adjusted to reflect the
issuance of 51,000,000 shares of common stock offered by The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc., which reflects the exercise, in full, of the underwriters' options
to purchase 9,000,000 shares of common stock. Net proceeds from the offerings
reflect the deduction of underwriting discounts and of estimated expenses
payable by Goldman Sachs in connection with the offerings.
 
     (g) CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTION.  Adjustment to reflect the charitable
contribution of $200 million.
 
     (h) RETIRED LIMITED PARTNER EXCHANGES OF INTERESTS FOR CASH.  Adjustment to
reflect the payment of $891 million in cash to the retired limited partners in
exchange for their interests in The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and certain
affiliates.
 
     (i) REDEMPTION OF SENIOR LIMITED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS FOR
CASH.  Adjustment to reflect the redemption of the senior limited partnership
interests for cash of $888 million by The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. prior to the
incorporation transactions described under "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions -- Incorporation and Related Transactions -- Incorporation
Transactions".
 
     (j) PARTNER EXCHANGES OF INTERESTS FOR SHARES.  Adjustment of $3,609
million to reflect the issuance of 265,019,073 shares of common stock to the
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners, 47,270,551
shares of common stock to retired limited partners, 30,425,052 shares of common
stock and 7,440,362 shares of nonvoting common stock to Sumitomo Bank Capital
Markets, Inc. and 30,975,421 shares of common stock to Kamehameha Activities
Association, in exchange for their respective interests in The Goldman Sachs
Group, L.P. and certain affiliates.
 
     (k) CASH DISTRIBUTIONS.  Adjustment to reflect cash distributions of $1,232
million by The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. to its partners, including Sumitomo
Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association, in the second
quarter of fiscal 1999 in accordance with its partnership agreement, including
distributions for partner income taxes related to earnings in the first quarter
of fiscal 1999, capital withdrawals by the managing directors who were profit
participating limited partners, Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and
Kamehameha Activities Association and distributions to satisfy obligations to
certain retired limited partners.
 
     Goldman Sachs expects that additional cash distributions for partner income
taxes related to earnings in the second quarter of fiscal 1999 will be
significant due, in part, to certain expenses that are not deductible by the
partners. Goldman Sachs expects to record a substantial tax asset on the
consummation of the offerings related to these expenses. These cash
distributions and the related tax asset are not reflected in the Pro Forma
Consolidated Balance Sheet Information.
 
                                       30
<PAGE>   31
      NOTES TO PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION -- (CONTINUED)
 
     (l) NET TAX ASSETS.  Adjustment to reflect the addition to retained
earnings related to the recognition of a net tax asset of $1,815 million under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 at an effective tax rate of
41%. The components of this net tax asset, which will be included in "Other
assets" on the consolidated statement of financial condition, are (i) a net
benefit of $808 million related to the conversion of The Goldman Sachs Group,
L.P. to corporate form, (ii) a benefit of $925 million related to the 30,025,946
restricted stock units awarded to employees based on a formula and the initial
irrevocable contribution of 12,555,866 shares of common stock to the defined
contribution plan and (iii) a benefit of $82 million related to the charitable
contribution.
 
     As discussed in Note 2(k) above, Goldman Sachs expects to record a
substantial tax asset on the consummation of the offerings related to certain
expenses that are not deductible by the partners in fiscal 1999. The tax asset
associated with these expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 1999 is not
reflected in the Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet Information.
 
     (m) EFFECT ON STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY OF EMPLOYEE INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING
AWARDS.  Adjustment to reflect the effect on the components of stockholders'
equity, excluding the tax benefit described in Note 2(l) above, of (i) the
restricted stock units awarded to employees based on a formula, (ii) the initial
irrevocable contribution of shares of common stock to the defined contribution
plan and (iii) the restricted stock units awarded to employees on a
discretionary basis.
 
     The following table sets forth each of these components as of February 26,
1999:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          COMMON STOCK                  ADDITIONAL
                                          AND NONVOTING   RESTRICTED     PAID-IN     RETAINED     UNEARNED
                                          COMMON STOCK    STOCK UNITS    CAPITAL     EARNINGS   COMPENSATION
                                          -------------   -----------   ----------   --------   ------------
                                                                    (in millions)
<S>                                       <C>             <C>           <C>          <C>        <C>
 
Restricted stock units awarded based on
  a formula.............................       $--          $1,591         $ --      $(1,591)     $    --
Contribution of shares of common stock
  to the defined contribution plan......        --              --          666         (666)          --
Restricted stock units awarded on a
  discretionary basis...................        --           1,765           --           --       (1,765)
                                               ---          ------         ----      -------      -------
Total Adjustment........................       $--          $3,356         $666      $(2,257)     $(1,765)
                                               ===          ======         ====      =======      =======
</TABLE>
 
                                       31
<PAGE>   32
 
                                    DILUTION
 
     As of February 26, 1999, the pro forma net tangible book value of Goldman
Sachs was approximately $4.89 billion, or approximately $11.55 per share (which
includes the shares of nonvoting common stock, the shares of common stock
irrevocably contributed to the defined contribution plan and the shares of
common stock underlying the restricted stock units awarded to employees based on
a formula). "Pro forma net tangible book value" per share represents the amount
of Goldman Sachs' total consolidated tangible assets minus total consolidated
liabilities, divided by the 423,712,271 shares outstanding on a pro forma basis
after giving effect to the Pro Forma Adjustments described under "Pro Forma
Consolidated Financial Information". After giving effect to the sale by The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. of 51,000,000 shares of common stock in the offerings
at the initial public offering price of $53.00 per share and after deducting the
underwriting discounts and estimated expenses payable by Goldman Sachs in the
offerings, the pro forma net tangible book value of Goldman Sachs as of February
26, 1999 would have been approximately $7.46 billion, or approximately $15.72
per share. This represents an immediate increase in net tangible book value of
$4.17 per share to existing shareholders and an immediate dilution in net
tangible book value of $37.28 per share to new investors purchasing shares of
common stock at the initial public offering price.
 
     The following table illustrates this dilution on a per share basis:
 
<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>
Initial public offering price per share of common stock.....            $53.00
  Pro forma net tangible book value per share before giving
     effect to the offerings(1).............................  $11.55
  Increase in net tangible book value per share attributable
     to the sale of common stock in the offerings(2)........    4.17
                                                              ------
Pro forma net tangible book value per share after giving
  effect to the offerings(1)................................             15.72
                                                                        ------
Dilution in net tangible book value per share to new
  investors(3)..............................................            $37.28
                                                                        ======
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
 
      (1) Goldman Sachs' intangible assets as of February 26, 1999 were $166
          million, comprised primarily of goodwill, equivalent to $0.39 per
          share, after giving effect to the Pro Forma Adjustments described
          under "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information", and $0.35 per
          share after giving effect to the offerings.
 
      (2) After deducting the underwriting discounts and estimated expenses
          payable by Goldman Sachs in the offerings.
 
      (3) Dilution is determined by subtracting pro forma net tangible book
          value per share after giving effect to the offerings from the initial
          public offering price per share paid by a new investor.
 
                            ------------------------
 
     Shares outstanding excludes 40,127,592 shares of common stock deliverable
pursuant to the options awarded to employees on a discretionary basis,
33,292,869 shares of common stock deliverable pursuant to the restricted stock
units awarded to employees on a discretionary basis and shares of common stock
that may be awarded in the future under the stock incentive plan. See
"Management -- The Employee Initial Public Offering Awards" for a description of
these awards and the stock incentive plan.
 
                                       32
<PAGE>   33
 
                                 CAPITALIZATION
 
     The following table sets forth the consolidated capitalization of Goldman
Sachs as of February 26, 1999:
 
- - on an historical basis;
 
- - on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the Pro Forma Adjustments
  described under "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information"; and
 
- - as adjusted for the sale of 51,000,000 shares of common stock by The Goldman
  Sachs Group, Inc. in the offerings at the initial public offering price of
  $53.00 per share, after deduction of the underwriting discounts and estimated
  expenses payable by Goldman Sachs in the offerings.

     This table should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and their notes and the Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information
and their notes.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          AS OF FEBRUARY 26, 1999
                                                              -----------------------------------------------
                                                                                               PRO FORMA
                                                                                              AS ADJUSTED
                                                              HISTORICAL    PRO FORMA      FOR THE OFFERINGS
                                                              ----------    ---------      -----------------
                                                                              ($ in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>            <C>
Short-term borrowings (including commercial paper)(1).......   $33,863       $33,863            $33,863
                                                               =======       =======            =======
Long-term borrowings(2):
  Senior debt(3)............................................   $20,405       $20,405            $20,405
  Junior subordinated debentures(4).........................        --           371                371
                                                               -------       -------            -------
         Total long-term borrowings.........................    20,405        20,776             20,776
Partners' capital...........................................     6,612            --                 --
Stockholders' equity:
  Preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share; 150,000,000
    shares authorized, no shares issued and outstanding.....        --            --                 --
  Common stock, par value $0.01 per share; 4,000,000,000
    shares authorized, 386,245,963 shares issued and
    outstanding (437,245,963 shares issued and outstanding
    as adjusted)(5).........................................        --             4                  4
  Restricted stock units; 63,318,815 units issued and
    outstanding(6)..........................................        --         3,356              3,356
  Nonvoting common stock, par value $0.01 per share;
    200,000,000 shares authorized, 7,440,362 shares issued
    and outstanding.........................................        --             0                  0
  Additional paid-in capital................................        --         4,271              6,839
  Retained earnings.........................................        --          (807)              (807)
  Unearned compensation(7)..................................                  (1,765)            (1,765)
                                                               -------       -------            -------
         Total stockholders' equity.........................        --         5,059              7,627
                                                               -------       -------            -------
           Total capitalization.............................   $27,017       $25,835            $28,403
                                                               =======       =======            =======
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Includes current portion of long-term borrowings of $6,285 million. See Note
    4 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as of
    February 26, 1999 for further information regarding Goldman Sachs' short-
    term borrowings.
(2) After the offerings and subject to market conditions, we intend to raise
    additional funds in the public debt securities market, including through an
    anticipated $1 billion offering of long-term debt securities and an
    anticipated Euro 1 billion offering of long-term debt securities payable in
    euros.
(3) Includes subordinated debt of Goldman, Sachs & Co. of $275 million.
(4) Consists of junior subordinated debentures issued to the retired limited
    partners as part of the incorporation transactions. See "Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions -- Incorporation and Related
    Transactions" for further information regarding the issuance of the
    debentures.
(5) Common stock outstanding includes 12,555,866 shares of common stock
    irrevocably contributed to the defined contribution plan. Common stock
    outstanding excludes 40,127,592 shares of common stock deliverable pursuant
    to the options awarded to employees on a discretionary basis. See
    "Management -- The Employee Initial Public Offering Awards" for more
    detailed information regarding these awards.
(6) Restricted stock units include 30,025,946 shares of common stock underlying
    the restricted stock units awarded to employees based on a formula and
    33,292,869 shares of common stock underlying the restricted stock units
    awarded to employees on a discretionary basis.
(7) Unearned compensation relates to the award of the restricted stock units
    awarded to employees on a discretionary basis.
 
                                       33
<PAGE>   34
 
                      SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The selected historical consolidated income statement and balance sheet
data set forth below have been derived from Goldman Sachs' consolidated
financial statements and their notes. Goldman Sachs' consolidated financial
statements have been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent public
accountants, as of November 28, 1997 and November 27, 1998 and for the years
ended November 29, 1996, November 28, 1997 and November 27, 1998. Goldman Sachs'
condensed consolidated financial statements have been reviewed by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as of February 26, 1999 and for the three months
ended February 27, 1998 and February 26, 1999. These financial statements are
included elsewhere in this prospectus, together with the reports thereon of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
 
     The selected historical consolidated income statement and balance sheet
data set forth below as of November 25, 1994, November 24, 1995 and November 29,
1996 and for the years ended November 25, 1994 and November 24, 1995 have been
derived from audited consolidated financial statements of Goldman Sachs not
included in this prospectus.
 
     The selected historical consolidated income statement and balance sheet
data set forth below as of and for the three months ended February 26, 1999 and
for the three months ended February 27, 1998 have been derived from Goldman
Sachs' unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements that, in the
opinion of management, include all adjustments, consisting only of normal
recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation. The interim results
set forth below for the three months ended February 26, 1999 may not be
indicative of results for the full year.

     The pro forma data set forth below for the year ended November 27, 1998 and
as of and for the three months ended February 26, 1999 have been derived from
the pro forma data set forth in "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information"
included elsewhere in this prospectus. The pro forma consolidated income
statement information set forth in "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
Information" for the year ended November 27, 1998 have been examined by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The pro forma consolidated financial information as
of and for the three months ended February 26, 1999 has been reviewed by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
 
     The selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations", "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information" and the consolidated
financial statements and their notes.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                             AS OF OR FOR
                                                                                                             THREE MONTHS
                                                             AS OF OR FOR YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER               ENDED FEBRUARY
                                                    ---------------------------------------------------   -------------------
                                                     1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       1998       1999
                                                     ----       ----       ----       ----       ----       ----       ----
                                                                                                              (unaudited)
                                                                     (in millions, except per share amounts)
<S>                                                 <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
INCOME STATEMENT DATA:
  Total revenues..................................  $12,452   $ 14,324   $ 17,289   $ 20,433   $ 22,478   $  5,903   $  5,856
  Interest expense................................    8,915      9,841     11,160     12,986     13,958      3,431      2,861
                                                    -------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
  Net revenues....................................    3,537      4,483      6,129      7,447      8,520      2,472      2,995
  Compensation and benefits(1)....................    1,789      2,005      2,421      3,097      3,838      1,100      1,275
  Other operating expenses........................    1,240      1,110      1,102      1,336      1,761        350        532
                                                    -------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
  Pre-tax earnings(1).............................  $   508   $  1,368   $  2,606   $  3,014   $  2,921   $  1,022   $  1,188
                                                    =======   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
BALANCE SHEET DATA:
  Total assets(2).................................  $95,296   $100,066   $152,046   $178,401   $217,380         --   $230,624
  Long-term borrowings............................   14,418     13,358     12,376     15,667     19,906         --     20,405
  Total liabilities(2)............................   89,981     94,686    145,753    171,864    210,996         --    223,633
  Partners' capital...............................    4,771      4,905      5,309      6,107      6,310         --      6,612
PRO FORMA DATA:(3)
  Pro forma net earnings..........................       --         --         --         --   $  1,256         --   $    516
  Pro forma diluted earnings per share(4).........       --         --         --         --       2.93         --       1.18
  Pro forma diluted earnings per share as adjusted
    for the offerings(5)..........................       --         --         --         --       2.62         --       1.06
  Pro forma diluted shares as adjusted for the
    offerings(5)..................................       --         --         --         --        479         --        488
  Pro forma stockholders' equity as adjusted for
    the offerings.................................       --         --         --         --         --         --   $  7,627
  Pro forma book value per share as adjusted for
    the offerings.................................       --         --         --         --         --         --      16.07
</TABLE>
 
                                       34
<PAGE>   35
 
                      SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                             AS OF OR FOR
                                                                                                             THREE MONTHS
                                                             AS OF OR FOR YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER               ENDED FEBRUARY
                                                    ---------------------------------------------------   -------------------
                                                     1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       1998       1999
                                                     ----       ----       ----       ----       ----       ----       ----
                                                                                 ($ in millions)
<S>                                                 <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
SELECTED DATA AND RATIOS (UNAUDITED):
  Pre-tax return on average partners'
    capital(1)....................................       10%        28%        51%        53%        47%        --         --
  Ratio of compensation and benefits to net
    revenues(1)...................................       51         45         40         42         45         44%        43%
  Employees:
    United States.................................    5,822      5,356      5,818      6,879      8,349      7,008      8,244
    International.................................    3,176      2,803      3,159      3,743      4,684      3,891      4,634
                                                    -------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
  Total employees(6)..............................    8,998      8,159      8,977     10,622     13,033     10,899     12,878
                                                    =======   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
  Assets under supervision:
    Assets under management.......................  $43,671   $ 52,358   $ 94,599   $135,929   $194,821   $151,189   $206,380
    Other client assets...........................   49,061     57,716     76,892    102,033    142,018    114,928    163,315
                                                    -------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
  Total assets under supervision..................  $92,732   $110,074   $171,491   $237,962   $336,839   $266,117   $369,695
                                                    =======   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Since we have historically operated in partnership form, payments to our
    profit participating limited partners have been accounted for as
    distributions of partners' capital rather than as compensation expense. As a
    result, our pre-tax earnings and compensation and benefits expense have not
    reflected any payments for services rendered by our managing directors who
    were profit participating limited partners. Accordingly, our historical
    pre-tax earnings understate the expected operating costs to be incurred by
    us after the offerings. As a corporation, we will include payments for
    services rendered by our managing directors who were profit participating
    limited partners in compensation and benefits expense. For financial
    information that reflects pro forma compensation and benefits expense as if
    we had been a corporation, see "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
    Information".
 
(2) Total assets and liabilities were increased by $11.64 billion as of November
    27, 1998 and $8.99 billion as of February 26, 1999 due to the adoption of
    the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125 that
    were deferred by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 127. For a
    discussion of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Nos. 125 and 127,
    see "Accounting Developments" in Note 2 to the audited consolidated
    financial statements.
 
(3) Reflects such adjustments as are necessary, in the opinion of management,
    for a fair presentation of the results of operations and stockholders'
    equity of Goldman Sachs on a pro forma basis. See "Pro Forma Consolidated
    Financial Information" for more detailed information concerning these
    adjustments.
 
(4) Calculated based on weighted-average diluted shares outstanding after giving
    effect to the Pro Forma Adjustments. See "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
    Information" for more detailed information concerning these adjustments and
    the calculation of pro forma earnings per share.
 
(5) Calculated based on weighted-average diluted shares outstanding after giving
    effect to the Pro Forma Adjustments and as adjusted to reflect the issuance
    of 51,000,000 shares of common stock offered by The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. at the initial public offering price set forth on the cover page of
    this prospectus. See "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information" for more
    detailed information concerning these adjustments and the calculation of pro
    forma earnings per share.
 
(6) Excludes employees of Goldman Sachs' two property management subsidiaries,
    The Archon Group, L.P. and Archon Group (France) S.C.A. Substantially all of
    the costs of these employees are reimbursed to Goldman Sachs by the real
    estate investment funds to which the two companies provide property
    management services. In addition, as of February 26, 1999, we had 3,400
    temporary staff and consultants. For more detailed information regarding our
    employees, see "Business -- Employees".
 
                                       35
<PAGE>   36
 
        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
           ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
To the Partners,
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.:
 
     We have examined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations, except as discussed in the third paragraph
below ("MD&A"), taken as a whole, of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and
Subsidiaries (the "Firm") for the three-year period ended November 27, 1998,
included on pages 37 to 62 of this prospectus. Management is responsible for the
preparation of the Firm's MD&A pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted by
the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the presentation based on our examination. We have audited, in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, the consolidated
financial statements of the Firm as of November 27, 1998 and November 28, 1997,
and for each of the three years in the period ended November 27, 1998, and in
our report dated January 22, 1999, we expressed an unqualified opinion on those
financial statements.
 
     Our examination of MD&A was made in accordance with attestation standards
established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and,
accordingly, included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
historical amounts and disclosures in the presentation. An examination also
includes assessing the significant determinations made by management as to the
relevance of information to be included and the estimates and assumptions that
affect reported information. We believe that our examination provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     The preparation of MD&A requires management to interpret the criteria, make
determinations as to the relevance of information to be included, and make
estimates and assumptions that affect reported information. MD&A includes
information regarding the estimated future impact of transactions and events
that have occurred or are expected to occur, expected sources of liquidity and
capital resources, operating trends, commitments, and uncertainties, including
those related to the Year 2000 readiness issue. Actual results in the future may
differ materially from management's present assessment of this information
because events and circumstances frequently do not occur as expected.
 
     Our examination of MD&A of the Firm did not include (i) the information
presented under the headings "VaR" or "VaR Methodology, Assumptions and
Limitations" or (ii) information for the three months ended February 26, 1999
and February 27, 1998. Accordingly, we express no opinion on such information.
 
     In our opinion, the Firm's presentation of MD&A for the three-year period
ended November 27, 1998 includes, in all material respects, the required
elements of the rules and regulations adopted by the Securities and Exchange
Commission; the historical financial amounts included therein have been
accurately derived, in all material respects, from the Firm's financial
statements; and the underlying information, determinations, estimates, and
assumptions of the Firm provide a reasonable basis for the disclosures contained
therein.
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
New York, New York
March 15, 1999.
 
                                       36
<PAGE>   37
 
        MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
                             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     Goldman Sachs is a global investment banking and securities firm that
provides a wide range of services worldwide to a substantial and diversified
client base.
 
     Our activities are divided into three principal business lines:
 
- - Investment Banking, which includes financial advisory services and
  underwriting;
 
- - Trading and Principal Investments, which includes fixed income, currency and
  commodities ("FICC"), equities and principal investments (principal
  investments reflect primarily our investments in our merchant banking funds);
  and
 
- - Asset Management and Securities Services, which includes asset management,
  securities services and commissions.
 
     All references to 1996, 1997 and 1998 refer to our fiscal year ended, or
the date, as the context requires, November 29, 1996, November 28, 1997 and
November 27, 1998, respectively, and all references to February 1998 and
February 1999 refer to our three-month fiscal period ended, or the date, as the
context requires, February 27, 1998 and February 26, 1999, respectively.
 
     When we use the terms "Goldman Sachs", "we" and "our", we mean, prior to
the principal incorporation transactions that are described under "Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions -- Incorporation and Related
Transactions -- Incorporation Transactions", The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., a
Delaware limited partnership, and its consolidated subsidiaries and, after the
incorporation transactions, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
 
                              BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
 
     Economic and market conditions can significantly affect our performance.
For a number of years leading up to the second half of 1998, we operated in a
generally favorable macroeconomic environment characterized by low inflation,
low interest rates and strong equity markets in the United States and many
international markets. This favorable economic environment provided a positive
climate for our investment banking activities, as well as for our
customer-driven and proprietary trading activities. Economic conditions were
also favorable for wealth creation which contributed positively to growth in our
asset management businesses.
 
     From mid-August to mid-October 1998, the Russian economic crisis, the
turmoil in Asian and Latin American emerging markets and the resulting move to
higher credit quality fixed income securities by many investors led to
substantial declines in global financial markets. Investors broadly sold
credit-sensitive products, such as corporate and high-yield debt, and bought
higher-rated instruments, such as U.S. Treasury securities, which caused credit
spreads to widen dramatically. This market turmoil also caused a widespread
decline in global equity markets.
 
     As a major dealer in fixed income securities, Goldman Sachs maintains
substantial inventories of corporate and high-yield debt. Goldman Sachs
regularly seeks to hedge the interest rate risk on these positions through,
among other strategies, short positions in U.S. Treasury securities. In the
second half of 1998, we suffered losses from both the decline in the prices of
corporate and high-yield debt instruments that we owned and the increase in the
prices of the U.S. Treasury securities in which we had short positions.
 
     This market turmoil also led to trading losses in our fixed income relative
value trading positions. Relative value trading positions are intended to profit
from a perceived temporary dislocation in the relationship between the values of
different financial instruments. From mid-August to mid-October 1998, the
components of these relative value positions moved in directions that we did not
anticipate and the volatilities of some of our positions increased to three
times prior levels. When Goldman Sachs and other market participants with
similar positions simultaneously sought to reduce positions and exposures, this
caused a substantial reduction in market liquidity and a continuing decline in
prices.
 
                                       37
<PAGE>   38
 
     In the second half of 1998, we also experienced losses in equity arbitrage
and in the value of a number of merchant banking investments.
 
     Later in the fourth quarter of 1998, market conditions improved as the U.S.
Federal Reserve cut interest rates, the International Monetary Fund finalized a
credit agreement with Brazil and a consortium of 14 financial institutions,
including Goldman Sachs, recapitalized Long-Term Capital Portfolio, L.P. For a
further discussion of Long-Term Capital Portfolio, L.P., see
"-- Liquidity -- The Balance Sheet" below.
 
     Our earnings in the second half of 1998 were adversely affected by market
conditions from mid-August to mid-October. In this difficult business
environment, Trading and Principal Investments recorded net revenues of $464
million in the third quarter of 1998 and net revenues of negative $663 million
in the fourth quarter of 1998. As a result, Trading and Principal Investments
did not make a significant contribution to pre-tax earnings in 1998.
 
     In the first quarter of 1999, we operated in a generally favorable
macroeconomic environment characterized by low inflation and low interest rates.
Global financial markets recovered from the turbulent conditions of the second
half of 1998, leading to narrowing credit spreads and an increase in mergers and
acquisitions and other corporate activity.
 
     The macroeconomic environment in the first quarter of 1999 was particularly
favorable in the United States, where inflationary pressures were minimal and
interest rates were left unchanged by the U.S. Federal Reserve. Economic growth
in Europe was sluggish despite a simultaneous cut in interest rates by 11
European central banks in December and the successful establishment of the
European Economic and Monetary Union in January. Markets in Asia and Latin
America were generally characterized by continuing economic and financial
difficulties, particularly in Japan and Brazil. In a number of Asian emerging
markets, however, economic and market conditions stabilized in the first quarter
of 1999.
 
                             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     Management believes that the best measure by which to assess Goldman Sachs'
historical profitability is pre-tax earnings because, as a partnership, we
generally have not been subject to U.S. federal or state income taxes. See
"-- Provision for Taxes" below and Note 2 to the audited consolidated financial
statements for a further discussion of our provision for taxes.
 
     Since historically we have operated as a partnership, payments to our
profit participating limited partners have been accounted for as distributions
of partners' capital rather than as compensation expense. As a result, our
compensation and benefits expense has not reflected any payments for services
rendered by managing directors who were profit participating limited partners
and has therefore understated the expected operating costs to be incurred by us
after the offerings. As a corporation, we will include these payments to
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners in
compensation and benefits expense, as discussed under "Pro Forma Consolidated
Financial Information". See "Management -- The Partner Compensation Plan" for a
further discussion of the plan to be adopted for the purpose of compensating our
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners.
 
     Moreover, in connection with the offerings, we will record the effect of
the following non-recurring items in the second quarter of 1999:
 
- - the award of the restricted stock units to employees based on a formula;
 
- - the initial irrevocable contribution of shares of common stock to the defined
  contribution plan;
 
- - the recognition of net tax assets; and
 
- - the contribution to the Goldman Sachs Fund, a charitable foundation.
 
We also expect to record additional expense in the second quarter of 1999 equal
to (i) 50% of the estimated compensation and benefits of the managing directors
who were profit participating limited partners in 1999 based on the annualized
results for the first half of 1999 offset by (ii) the effect of issuing
 
                                       38
<PAGE>   39
 
restricted stock units to employees, in lieu of cash compensation, for which
future service is required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying
shares of common stock. In accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 25, these restricted stock units will be recorded as compensation expense
over the four-year vesting period following the date of grant.
 
     As a result, we expect to record a substantial pre-tax loss in the second
quarter of 1999. See "Risk Factors -- We Expect to Record a Substantial Pre-Tax
Loss in the Second Quarter of Fiscal 1999".
 
     The composition of our historical net revenues has varied over time as
financial markets and the scope of our operations have changed. The composition
of net revenues can also vary over the shorter term due to fluctuations in
economic and market conditions. As a result, period-to-period comparisons may
not be meaningful. See "Risk Factors" for a discussion of factors that could
affect our future performance.
 
OVERVIEW
 
     The following table sets forth our net revenues and pre-tax earnings:
 
                               FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                        YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER             FEBRUARY
                                     --------------------------    ------------------
                                      1996      1997      1998      1998       1999
                                      ----      ----      ----      ----       ----
                                                                      (unaudited)
<S>                                  <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>
Net revenues.......................  $6,129    $7,447    $8,520    $2,472     $2,995
Pre-tax earnings...................   2,606     3,014     2,921     1,022      1,188
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
     FEBRUARY 1999 VERSUS FEBRUARY 1998. Our net revenues were $2.99 billion in
the three-month period ended February 1999, an increase of 21% compared to the
same period in 1998. Net revenue growth was strong in Investment Banking, which
increased 42%, primarily due to higher market levels of mergers and acquisitions
and underwriting activity. Net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments
increased 15% as higher net revenues in FICC and equities more than offset a
reduction in principal investments. Net revenues in Asset Management and
Securities Services increased 12% due to increased assets under management and
higher customer balances in securities services. Pre-tax earnings increased 16%
to $1.19 billion for the period.
 
     1998 VERSUS 1997.  Our net revenues were $8.52 billion in 1998, an increase
of 14% compared to 1997. Net revenue growth was strong in Investment Banking,
which increased 30%, due to higher levels of mergers and acquisitions activity,
and in Asset Management and Securities Services, which increased 43%, due to
increased commissions, higher customer balances in securities services and
increased assets under management. Net revenues in Trading and Principal
Investments decreased 19% compared to the prior year, due primarily to a 30%
reduction of net revenues in FICC. Pre-tax earnings in 1998 were $2.92 billion
compared to $3.01 billion in the prior year.
 
     1997 VERSUS 1996.  Our net revenues were $7.45 billion in 1997, an increase
of 22% compared to 1996. Net revenue growth was strong in Asset Management and
Securities Services, which increased 46%, due to increased commissions and asset
management fees and higher assets under management and customer balances in
securities services. Net revenues in Investment Banking increased 22% due to
increased levels of mergers and acquisitions and debt underwriting activity. Net
revenues in Trading and Principal Investments increased 9% over the prior year,
due to higher net revenues in FICC and principal investments. Pre-tax earnings
were $3.01 billion in 1997, an increase of 16% over the prior year.
 
                                       39
<PAGE>   40
 
     The following table sets forth the net revenues of our principal business
lines:
 
                    NET REVENUES BY PRINCIPAL BUSINESS LINE
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                    YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER               FEBRUARY
                                 --------------------------      ------------------
                                  1996      1997      1998        1998        1999
                                  ----      ----      ----        ----        ----
                                                                    (unaudited)
<S>                              <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>         <C>
Investment Banking.............  $2,113    $2,587    $3,368      $  633      $  902
Trading and Principal
  Investments..................   2,693     2,926     2,379       1,182       1,357
Asset Management and Securities
  Services.....................   1,323     1,934     2,773         657         736
                                 ------    ------    ------      ------      ------
Total net revenues.............  $6,129    $7,447    $8,520      $2,472      $2,995
                                 ======    ======    ======      ======      ======
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
     Net revenues in our principal business lines represent total revenues less
allocations of interest expense to specific securities, commodities and other
positions in relation to the level of financing incurred by each position.
Interest expense is allocated to Trading and Principal Investments and the
securities services component of Asset Management and Securities Services. Net
revenues may not be indicative of the relative profitability of any principal
business line.
 
INVESTMENT BANKING
 
     Goldman Sachs provides a broad range of investment banking services to a
diverse group of corporations, financial institutions, governments and
individuals. Our investment banking activities are divided into two categories:
 
- - FINANCIAL ADVISORY. Financial advisory includes advisory assignments with
  respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense
  activities, restructurings and spin-offs; and

- - UNDERWRITING. Underwriting includes public offerings and private placements of
  equity and debt securities.
 
     The following table sets forth the net revenues of our Investment Banking
business:
 
                        INVESTMENT BANKING NET REVENUES
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                   YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER                 FEBRUARY
                              ------------------------------      ------------------
                               1996        1997        1998       1998         1999
                               ----        ----        ----       ----         ----
                                                                     (unaudited)
<S>                           <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>
Financial advisory..........  $  931      $1,184      $1,774      $363         $522
Underwriting................   1,182       1,403       1,594       270          380
                              ------      ------      ------      ----         ----
Total Investment Banking....  $2,113      $2,587      $3,368      $633         $902
                              ======      ======      ======      ====         ====
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
     FEBRUARY 1999 VERSUS FEBRUARY 1998. The Investment Banking business
achieved net revenues of $902 million in the three-month period ended February
1999, an increase of 42% compared to the same period in 1998. Net revenue growth
was strong in both financial advisory and underwriting, particularly in the
communications, media and
 
                                       40
<PAGE>   41
entertainment, healthcare and financial institutions groups. Our Investment
Banking business was particularly strong in Europe and the United States.
 
     Financial advisory revenues increased 44% compared to the same period in
1998, primarily due to higher market levels of mergers and acquisitions activity
as the trend toward consolidation continued in various industries. Underwriting
revenues increased 41%, primarily due to increased levels of equity underwriting
activity in Europe.
 
     1998 VERSUS 1997.  The Investment Banking business achieved net revenues of
$3.37 billion in 1998, an increase of 30% compared to 1997. Net revenue growth
was strong in financial advisory and, to a lesser extent, in underwriting as
Goldman Sachs' global presence and strong client base enabled it to capitalize
on higher levels of activity in many industry groups, including communications,
media and entertainment, financial institutions, general industrials and retail.
Net revenue growth in our Investment Banking business was strong in all major
regions in 1998 compared to the prior year.
 
     Financial advisory revenues increased 50% compared to 1997 due to increased
revenues from mergers and acquisitions advisory assignments, which principally
resulted from consolidation within various industries and generally favorable
U.S. and European stock markets. Despite a substantial decrease in the number of
industry-wide underwriting transactions in August and September of 1998,
underwriting revenues increased 14% for the year, primarily due to increased
revenues from equity and high-yield corporate debt underwriting activities.
 
     1997 VERSUS 1996.  The Investment Banking business achieved net revenues of
$2.59 billion in 1997, an increase of 22% compared to 1996. Net revenue growth
was strong in both financial advisory and underwriting, particularly in the
financial institutions, general industrials and real estate groups.
 
     Financial advisory revenues increased 27% compared to 1996 primarily due to
increased revenues from mergers and acquisitions activity in the market as a
whole. Underwriting revenues increased 19% primarily due to increased revenues
from investment grade and high-yield debt underwriting, which resulted from
lower interest rates. Revenues from equity underwriting activities increased
modestly over 1996 levels.
 
TRADING AND PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS
 
     Our Trading and Principal Investments business facilitates customer
transactions and takes proprietary positions through market-making in and
trading of fixed income and equity products, currencies, commodities, and swaps
and other derivatives. The Trading and Principal Investments business includes
the following:
 
- - FICC.  We make markets in and trade fixed income products, currencies and
  commodities, structure and enter into a wide variety of derivative
  transactions and engage in proprietary trading and arbitrage activities;
 
- - EQUITIES.  We make markets in and trade equities and equity-related products,
  structure and enter into equity derivative transactions and engage in
  proprietary trading and equity arbitrage; and
 
- - PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS.  Principal investments primarily represents net
  revenues from our investments in our merchant banking funds.
 
     Net revenues from principal investments do not include management fees and
the increased share of the income and gains from our merchant banking funds to
which Goldman Sachs is entitled when the return on investments exceeds certain
threshold returns to fund investors. These management fees and increased shares
of income and gains are included in the net revenues of Asset Management and
Securities Services.
 
     Substantially all of our inventory is marked-to-market daily and,
therefore, its value and our net revenues are subject to fluctuations based on
market movements. In addition, net revenues derived from our principal
investments in privately held concerns and in real estate may fluctuate
significantly depending on the revaluation or sale of these investments in any
given period.
 
                                       41
<PAGE>   42
 
     The following table sets forth the net revenues of our Trading and
Principal Investments business:
 
                 TRADING AND PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS NET REVENUES
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                              YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER             FEBRUARY
                                           --------------------------    ------------------
                                            1996      1997      1998      1998       1999
                                            ----      ----      ----      ----       ----
                                                                            (unaudited)
<S>                                        <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>
FICC.....................................  $1,749    $2,055    $1,438    $  741     $  876
Equities.................................     730       573       795       365        455
Principal investments....................     214       298       146        76         26
                                           ------    ------    ------    ------     ------
Total Trading and Principal
  Investments............................  $2,693    $2,926    $2,379    $1,182     $1,357
                                           ======    ======    ======    ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
     FEBRUARY 1999 VERSUS FEBRUARY 1998. The Trading and Principal Investments
business achieved net revenues of $1.36 billion in the three-month period ended
February 1999, an increase of 15% compared to the same period in 1998. Strong
performances in FICC and equities more than offset a net revenue reduction in
principal investments.
 
     Net revenues in FICC increased 18% compared to the same period in 1998,
primarily due to higher net revenues from market-making and trading of
currencies, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities, partially offset by
lower net revenues from fixed income derivatives.
 
     Net revenues in equities increased 25% compared to the same period in 1998,
primarily due to increased market-making net revenues resulting from strong
over-the-counter transaction volume in Europe and the United States.
 
     Net revenues from principal investments decreased 66%, due to lower gains
on the disposition of investments and a reduction in net revenues related to the
mark-to-market of our principal investments.
 
     1998 VERSUS 1997.  Net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments were
$2.38 billion in 1998, a decrease of 19% compared to 1997. This decrease in net
revenues was concentrated in the second half of the year. See "-- Business
Environment" above for a discussion of the losses suffered in Trading and
Principal Investments in the second half of 1998. For the full year, significant
net revenue reductions in FICC and principal investments were partially offset
by increased net revenues in equities.
 
     Net revenues in FICC decreased 30% compared to 1997 due to an
extraordinarily difficult environment in the second half of 1998. The net
revenue reduction in FICC was concentrated in fixed income arbitrage and
high-yield debt trading, which experienced losses in 1998 due to a reduction in
liquidity and widening credit spreads in the second half of the year. An
increase in net revenues from market-making and trading in fixed income
derivatives, currencies and commodities partially offset this decline.
 
     Net revenues in equities increased 39% compared to 1997 as higher net
revenues in derivatives and European shares were partially offset by losses in
equity arbitrage. The derivatives business generated significantly higher net
revenues due, in part, to strong customer demand for over-the-counter products,
particularly in Europe. Net revenues from European shares increased as Goldman
Sachs benefited from generally favorable equity markets and increased customer
demand. The equity arbitrage losses were due principally to the underperformance
of various equity positions versus their benchmark hedges, to widening of
spreads in a variety of relative value trades and to lower prices for
event-oriented securities resulting from a re-
 
                                       42
<PAGE>   43
 
duction in announced mergers and acquisitions and other corporate activity in 
the second half of 1998.
 
     Net revenues from principal investments declined 51% compared to 1997 as
investments in certain publicly held companies decreased in value during the
second half of 1998. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in gains
on the disposition of investments compared to the prior year.
 
     1997 VERSUS 1996.  The Trading and Principal Investments business achieved
net revenues of $2.93 billion in 1997, an increase of 9% compared to 1996.
Strong performances in FICC and principal investments more than offset a net
revenue reduction in equities.
 
     Net revenues in FICC increased 17% compared to 1996 due principally to
higher net revenues from market-making and trading in currencies, fixed income
derivatives and commodities. Fixed income arbitrage activities also contributed
to net revenue growth in FICC. Net revenues from market-making in and trading of
emerging market debt securities and corporate bonds declined in 1997 compared to
1996.
 
     Net revenues in equities decreased 22% in 1997 compared to 1996 due
principally to reductions in net revenues from derivatives and convertibles
resulting from volatility in the global equity markets in October and November
1997 and declining asset values in Japan in late November 1997. This reduction
was partially offset by increased net revenues from higher customer trading
volume in certain European over-the-counter markets.
 
     Net revenues from principal investments increased 39% in 1997 compared to
1996, as certain companies in which we invested through our merchant banking
funds completed initial public offerings and our positions in other publicly
held companies increased in value.
 
ASSET MANAGEMENT AND SECURITIES SERVICES
 
     Asset Management and Securities Services is comprised of the following:
 
- - ASSET MANAGEMENT.  Asset management generates management fees by providing
  investment advisory services to a diverse and rapidly growing client base of
  institutions and individuals;
 
- - SECURITIES SERVICES.  Securities services includes prime brokerage, financing
  services and securities lending and our matched book businesses, all of which
  generate revenue primarily in the form of fees or interest rate spreads; and
 
- - COMMISSIONS.  Commission-based businesses include agency transactions for
  clients on major stock and futures exchanges. Revenues from the increased
  share of the income and gains derived from our merchant banking funds are also
  included in commissions.
 
                                       43
<PAGE>   44
 
     The following table sets forth the net revenues of our Asset Management and
Securities Services business:
 
             ASSET MANAGEMENT AND SECURITIES SERVICES NET REVENUES
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                        YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER             FEBRUARY
                                     --------------------------    -------------------
                                      1996      1997      1998      1998         1999
                                      ----      ----      ----      ----         ----
                                                                       (unaudited)
<S>                                  <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>          <C>
Asset management...................  $  242    $  458    $  675     $139         $202
Securities services................     354       487       730      170          207
Commissions........................     727       989     1,368      348          327
                                     ------    ------    ------     ----         ----
Total Asset Management and
  Securities Services..............  $1,323    $1,934    $2,773     $657         $736
                                     ======    ======    ======     ====         ====
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
     Goldman Sachs' assets under supervision are comprised of assets under
management and other client assets. Assets under management typically generate
fees based on a percentage of their value and include our mutual funds, separate
accounts managed for institutional and individual investors, our merchant
banking funds and other alternative investment funds. Other client assets are
comprised of assets in brokerage accounts of primarily high net worth
individuals, on which we earn commissions. The following table sets forth our
assets under supervision:
 
                            ASSETS UNDER SUPERVISION
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER                 FEBRUARY
                          --------------------------------    --------------------
                            1996        1997        1998        1998        1999
                            ----        ----        ----        ----        ----
                                                                  (unaudited)
<S>                       <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Assets under
  management............  $ 94,599    $135,929    $194,821    $151,189    $206,380
Other client assets.....    76,892     102,033     142,018     114,928     163,315
                          --------    --------    --------    --------    --------
Total assets under
  supervision...........  $171,491    $237,962    $336,839    $266,117    $369,695
                          ========    ========    ========    ========    ========
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
     FEBRUARY 1999 VERSUS FEBRUARY 1998. The Asset Management and Securities
Services business achieved net revenues of $736 million in the three-month
period ended February 1999, an increase of 12% compared to the same period in
1998. Strong performances in asset management and securities services more than
offset a net revenue reduction in commissions.
 
     Asset management revenues increased 45% compared to the same period in
1998, primarily reflecting a 43% increase in average assets under management. In
the 1999 period, approximately half of the increase in assets under management
was attributable to net asset inflows, with the balance reflecting market
appreciation. Net revenues from securities services increased 22% during the
period, primarily due to growth in our securities borrowing and lending
businesses. Commission revenues decreased 6%, as an increase in equity
commissions was more than offset by a reduction in revenues from the increased
share of income and gains from our merchant
 
                                       44
<PAGE>   45
 
banking funds compared to a particularly strong period in the prior year.
 
     1998 VERSUS 1997.  The Asset Management and Securities Services business
achieved net revenues of $2.77 billion in 1998, an increase of 43% compared to
1997. All major components of the business line exhibited strong net revenue
growth.
 
     Asset management revenues increased 47% during this period, reflecting a
41% increase in average assets under management over 1997. In 1998,
approximately 80% of the increase in assets under management was attributable to
net asset inflows, with the remaining 20% reflecting market appreciation. Net
revenues from securities services increased 50%, primarily due to growth in our
securities borrowing and lending businesses. Commission revenues increased 38%
as generally strong and highly volatile equity markets resulted in increased
transaction volumes in listed equity securities. Revenues from the increased
share of income and gains from our merchant banking funds also contributed
significantly to the increase in commission revenues.
 
     1997 VERSUS 1996.  The Asset Management and Securities Services business
achieved net revenues of $1.93 billion in 1997, an increase of 46% compared to
1996. All major components of the business line exhibited strong net revenue
growth.
 
     Asset management revenues increased 89% during this period, reflecting a
73% increase in average assets under management due to strong net asset inflows,
market appreciation and assets added through the acquisitions of Liberty
Investment Management in January 1997 and Commodities Corporation in June 1997.
Net revenue growth in securities services was 38%, principally reflecting growth
in our securities borrowing and lending businesses. Commission revenues
increased 36% as customer trading volumes increased significantly on many of the
world's principal stock exchanges, including those in the United States where
industry-wide volumes increased substantially in the third and fourth quarters
of 1997. Revenues from the increased share of income and gains from our merchant
banking funds also contributed significantly to the increase in commission
revenues.
 
OPERATING EXPENSES
 
     In recent years, our operating expenses have increased as a result of
numerous factors, including higher levels of compensation, expansion of our
asset management business, increased worldwide activities, greater levels of
business complexity and additional systems and consulting costs relating to
various technology initiatives.
 
     Since we have historically operated in partnership form, payments to our
profit participating limited partners have been accounted for as distributions
of partners' capital rather than as compensation expense. As a result, our
compensation and benefits expense has not reflected any payments for services
rendered by our managing directors who were profit participating limited
partners. Accordingly, our historical compensation and benefits, the principal
component of our operating expenses, will increase significantly after the
offerings since, as a corporation, we will include these payments to our
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners in
compensation and benefits expense.
 
     We expect to record additional expense in the second quarter of 1999 equal
to (i) 50% of the estimated compensation and benefits of the managing directors
who were profit participating limited partners in 1999 based on the annualized
results for the first half of 1999 offset by (ii) the effect of issuing
restricted stock units to employees, in lieu of cash compensation, for which
future service is required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying
shares of common stock. In accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 25, these restricted stock units will be recorded as compensation expense
over the four-year vesting period following the date of grant. In addition, we
expect to record non-cash compensation expense related to the amortization of
the restricted stock units awarded to employees on a discretionary basis over
the five-year period following the consummation of the offerings. The non-cash
expense related to these restricted stock units is a fixed amount that is not
dependent on our
                                       45
<PAGE>   46
 
operating results in any given period. See "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
Information" for a further discussion of these items.
 
     The following table sets forth our operating expenses and number of
employees:
 
                        OPERATING EXPENSES AND EMPLOYEES
                                ($ in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                    YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER              FEBRUARY
                                ----------------------------    ------------------
                                 1996      1997       1998       1998       1999
                                 ----      ----       ----       ----       ----
                                                                   (unaudited)
<S>                             <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Compensation and benefits.....  $2,421    $ 3,097    $ 3,838    $ 1,100    $ 1,275
Brokerage, clearing and
  exchange fees...............     278        357        424         93        111
Market development............     137        206        287         54         77
Communications and
  technology..................     173        208        265         58         78
Depreciation and
  amortization................     172        178        242         42         97
Occupancy.....................     154        168        207         44         78
Professional services and
  other.......................     188        219        336         59         91
                                ------    -------    -------    -------    -------
Total operating expenses......  $3,523    $ 4,433    $ 5,599    $ 1,450    $ 1,807
                                ======    =======    =======    =======    =======
Employees at period end(1)....   8,977     10,622     13,033     10,899     12,878
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
    (1) Excludes employees of Goldman Sachs' two property management
        subsidiaries, The Archon Group, L.P. and Archon Group (France) S.C.A.
        Substantially all of the costs of these employees are reimbursed to
        Goldman Sachs by the real estate investment funds to which the two
        companies provide property management services. In addition, as of
        February 1999, we had approximately 3,400 temporary staff and
        consultants. For more detailed information regarding our employees, see
        "Business -- Employees".
 
                            ------------------------
 
     FEBRUARY 1999 VERSUS FEBRUARY 1998. Operating expenses were $1.81 billion
in the three-month period ended February 1999, an increase of 25% over the same
period in 1998, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits and higher
other operating expenses due to, among other things, Goldman Sachs' increased
worldwide activities.
 
     Compensation and benefits decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 43%
from 44% in the same period in 1998. Employment levels increased 18% compared to
the same period in 1998, with particularly strong growth in investment banking
and asset management. Expenses associated with our temporary staff and
consultants were $98 million for the three-month period ended February 1999, an
increase of 55%, reflecting preparations for the Year 2000 and greater levels of
business activity.
 
     Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 19%, primarily due to
higher transaction volumes in fixed income derivatives and futures contracts.
Market development expenses increased 43% and professional services and other
expenses increased 54%, due to higher levels of business activity.
Communications and technology expenses increased 34%, reflecting higher
telecommunications and market data costs associated with higher employment
levels and additional spending on technology initiatives. Depreciation and
amortization increased significantly due to certain fixed asset write-offs and
to capital expenditures on telecommunications and technology-related equipment
and leasehold improvements in support of Goldman Sachs' increased worldwide
activities. Occupancy expenses increased 77%, reflecting additional office space
needed to accommodate higher employment levels.
 
                                       46
<PAGE>   47
 
     1998 VERSUS 1997.  Operating expenses were $5.60 billion in 1998, an
increase of 26% over 1997, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits
expense.
 
     Compensation and benefits increased as a percentage of net revenues to 45%
from 42% in 1997, principally as a result of increases in employment levels and
in expenses associated with temporary staff and consultants. Employment levels
increased 23% during the year, with particularly strong growth in asset
management. Expenses associated with our temporary staff and consultants were
$330 million in 1998, an increase of 85% compared to 1997, reflecting greater
business activity, Goldman Sachs' global expansion and consulting costs
associated with various technology initiatives, including preparations for the
Year 2000 and the establishment of the European Economic and Monetary Union.
 
     Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 19%, primarily due to
higher transaction volumes in European and U.S. equities and futures contracts.
Market development expenses increased 39% and professional services and other
expenses increased 53%, due to higher levels of business activity and Goldman
Sachs' global expansion. Communications and technology expenses increased 27%,
reflecting higher telecommunications and market data costs associated with
higher employment levels and additional spending on technology initiatives.
Depreciation and amortization increased 36%, principally due to capital
expenditures on telecommunications and technology-related equipment and
leasehold improvements. Occupancy expenses increased 23%, reflecting additional
office space needed to accommodate higher employment levels.
 
     1997 VERSUS 1996.  Operating expenses were $4.43 billion in 1997, an
increase of 26% over 1996, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits
expense.
 
     Compensation and benefits increased as a percentage of net revenues to 42%
from 40% in 1996. This increase primarily reflected higher compensation due to
higher profit levels and an 18% increase in employment levels across Goldman
Sachs due to higher levels of market activity and our global expansion into new
businesses and markets. Expenses associated with our temporary staff and
consultants also contributed to the increase in compensation and benefits as a
percentage of net revenues. These expenses were $178 million in 1997, an
increase of 55% compared to 1996, reflecting greater business activity, Goldman
Sachs' global expansion and consulting costs associated with various technology
initiatives.
 
     Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 28%, primarily due to
higher transaction volumes in global equities, derivatives and currencies.
Market development expenses increased 50% and professional services and other
expenses increased 16%, due to higher levels of business activity and Goldman
Sachs' global expansion. Communications and technology expenses increased 20%,
reflecting higher telecommunications and market data costs associated with
higher employment levels and additional spending on technology initiatives.
Depreciation and amortization increased 3%. Occupancy expenses increased 9%,
reflecting additional office space needed to accommodate higher employment
levels.
 
PROVISION FOR TAXES
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., as a partnership, generally has not been
subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes. The earnings of The Goldman
Sachs Group, L.P. and certain of its subsidiaries have been subject to the 4%
New York City unincorporated business tax. In addition, certain of our non-U.S.
subsidiaries have been subject to income taxes in their local jurisdictions. The
amount of our provision for income and unincorporated business taxes has varied
significantly from year to year depending on the mix of earnings among our
subsidiaries. For information on the pro forma effective tax rate of Goldman
Sachs under corporate form, see "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information".
 
GEOGRAPHIC DATA
 
     For a summary of the total revenues, net revenues, pre-tax earnings and
identifiable
                                       47
<PAGE>   48
 
assets of Goldman Sachs by geographic region, see Note 9 to the audited
consolidated financial statements.
 
                                   CASH FLOWS
 
     Our cash flows are primarily related to the operating and financing
activities undertaken in connection with our trading and market-making
transactions.
 
YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1998
 
     Cash and cash equivalents increased to $2.84 billion in 1998. Cash of $62
million was provided by operating activities. Cash of $656 million was used for
investing activities, primarily for leasehold improvements and the purchase of
telecommunications and technology-related equipment and certain financial
instruments. Financing activities provided $2.10 billion of cash, reflecting an
increase in the net issuance of long-term and short-term borrowings, partially
offset by a decrease in net repurchase agreements, distributions to partners,
cash outflows related to partners' capital allocated for income taxes and
potential withdrawals and the termination of our profit participation plans. See
Note 8 to the audited consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the
termination of the profit participation plans.
 
YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1997
 
     Cash and cash equivalents decreased to $1.33 billion in 1997. Operating
activities provided cash of $70 million. Cash of $693 million was used for
investing activities, primarily for the purchase of certain financial
instruments and technology-related equipment. Cash of $258 million was used for
financing activities, principally due to a decrease in net repurchase
agreements, distributions to partners and cash outflows related to partners'
capital allocated for income taxes and potential withdrawals, partially offset
by the net issuance of long-term and short-term borrowings.
 
YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1996
 
     Cash and cash equivalents increased to $2.21 billion in 1996. Cash of
$14.63 billion was used for operating activities, primarily to fund higher net
trading assets due to increased levels of business activity. Cash of $218
million was used for investing activities, primarily for the purchase of
technology-related equipment and leasehold improvements. Financing activities
provided $16.10 billion of cash, reflecting an increase in net repurchase
agreements and the net issuance of long-term borrowings, partially offset by
distributions to partners and cash outflows related to partners' capital
allocated for income taxes and potential withdrawals.
 
                                   LIQUIDITY
 
MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT OF LIQUIDITY
 
     Management believes that one of the most important issues for a company in
the financial services sector is access to liquidity. Accordingly, Goldman Sachs
has established a comprehensive structure to oversee its liquidity and funding
policies.
 
     The Finance Committee has responsibility for establishing and assuring
compliance with our asset and liability management policies and has oversight
responsibility for managing liquidity risk, the size and composition of our
balance sheet and our credit ratings. See "-- Risk Management -- Risk Management
Structure" below for a further description of the committees that participate in
our risk management process. The Finance Committee meets monthly, and more often
when necessary, to evaluate our liquidity position and funding requirements.
 
     Our Treasury Department manages the capital structure, funding, liquidity
and relationships with creditors and rating agencies on a global basis. The
Treasury Department works jointly with our global funding desk in managing our
borrowings. The global funding desk is primarily responsible for our
transactional short-term funding activity.
 
LIQUIDITY POLICIES
 
     In order to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity, management has
implemented several liquidity policies as outlined below.
 
     DIVERSIFICATION OF FUNDING SOURCES AND LIQUIDITY PLANNING.  Goldman Sachs
maintains diversified funding sources with both
                                       48
<PAGE>   49
 
banks and non-bank lenders globally. Management believes that Goldman Sachs'
relationships with its lenders are critical to its liquidity. We maintain close
contact with our primary lenders to keep them advised of significant
developments that affect us.
 
     Goldman Sachs also has access to diversified funding sources with over 800
creditors, including banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, bank trust
departments and other asset managers. We monitor our creditors to maintain broad
and diversified credit, and no single creditor represented more than 5% of our
uncollateralized funding sources as of November 1998. Uncollateralized funding
sources principally include our short-term and long-term borrowings and letters
of credit.
 
     We access liquidity in a variety of markets in the United States as well as
in Europe and Asia. In addition, we make extensive use of the repurchase
agreement market and have raised debt in the private placement, the SEC's Rule
144A and the commercial paper markets, as well as through Eurobonds, money
broker loans, commodity-based financings, letters of credit and promissory
notes. After the offerings and subject to market conditions, we intend to raise
additional funds in the public debt securities market, including through an
anticipated $1 billion offering of long-term debt securities and an anticipated
Euro 1 billion offering of long-term debt securities payable in euros. We seek
to structure our liabilities to avoid significant amounts of debt coming due on
any one day or during any single week or year. In addition, we maintain and
update annually a liquidity crisis plan that provides guidance in the event of a
liquidity crisis. The annual update of this plan is reviewed and approved by our
Finance Committee.
 
     ASSET LIQUIDITY.  Goldman Sachs maintains a highly liquid balance sheet.
Many of our assets are readily funded in the repurchase agreement markets, which
generally have proven to be a consistent source of funding, even in periods of
market stress. Substantially all of our inventory turns over rapidly and is
marked-to-market daily. We maintain long-term borrowings and partners' capital
substantially in excess of our less liquid assets.
 
     DYNAMIC LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT. Goldman Sachs seeks to manage the composition
of its asset base and the maturity profile of its funding to ensure that it can
liquidate its assets prior to its liabilities coming due, even in times of
liquidity stress. We have traditionally been able to fund our liquidity needs
through collateralized funding, such as repurchase transactions and securities
lending, as well as short-term and long-term borrowings and partners' capital.
To further evaluate the adequacy of our liquidity management policies and
guidelines, we perform weekly "stress funding" simulations of disruptions to our
access to unsecured credit.
 
     EXCESS LIQUIDITY.  In addition to maintaining a highly liquid balance sheet
and a significant portion of longer-term liabilities to assure liquidity even
during adverse conditions, we seek to maintain a liquidity cushion that consists
principally of unencumbered U.S. government and agency obligations to ensure the
availability of immediate liquidity. This pool of highly liquid assets averaged
$14.17 billion during 1998 and $12.54 billion during 1997.
 
     LIQUIDITY RATIO MAINTENANCE.  It is Goldman Sachs' policy to further manage
its liquidity by maintaining a "liquidity ratio" of at least 100%. This ratio
measures the relationship between the loan value of our unencumbered assets and
our short-term unsecured liabilities. The maintenance of this liquidity ratio is
intended to ensure that we could fund our positions on a fully secured basis in
the event that we were unable to replace our unsecured debt maturing within one
year. Under this policy, we seek to maintain unencumbered assets in an amount
that, if pledged or sold, would provide the funds necessary to replace unsecured
obligations that are scheduled to mature (or where holders have the option to
redeem) within the coming year.
 
     INTERCOMPANY FUNDING.  Most of the liquidity of Goldman Sachs is raised by
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., which then lends the necessary funds to its
subsidiaries and affiliates. We carefully manage our intercom-
 
                                       49
<PAGE>   50
 
pany exposure by generally requiring intercompany loans to have maturities equal
to or shorter than the maturities of the aggregate borrowings of The Goldman
Sachs Group, L.P. This policy ensures that the subsidiaries' obligations to The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. will generally mature in advance of The Goldman Sachs
Group, L.P.'s third-party long-term borrowings. In addition, many of the
advances made to our subsidiaries and affiliates are secured by marketable
securities or other liquid collateral. We generally fund our equity investments
in subsidiaries with partners' capital.
 
THE BALANCE SHEET
 
     Goldman Sachs maintains a highly liquid balance sheet that fluctuates
significantly between financial statement dates. In the fourth quarter of 1998,
we temporarily decreased our total assets to reduce risk and increase liquidity
in response to difficult conditions in the global financial markets.
 
     Our total assets were $230.62 billion as of February 1999 and $217.38
billion as of November 1998.
 
     Our balance sheet size as of February 1999 and November 1998 increased by
$8.99 billion and $11.64 billion, respectively, due to the adoption of the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125 that were
deferred by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 127. For a
discussion of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Nos. 125 and 127, see
"-- Accounting Developments" below and Note 2 to the audited consolidated
financial statements.
 
     As of February 1999 and November 1998, we held approximately $999 million
and $1.04 billion, respectively, in high-yield debt securities and $1.39 billion
and $1.49 billion, respectively, in bank loans, all of which are valued on a
mark-to-market basis. These assets may be relatively illiquid during times of
market stress. We seek to diversify our holdings of these assets by industry and
by geographic location.
 
     As of February 1999 and November 1998, we held approximately $1.04 billion
and $1.17 billion, respectively, of emerging market securities, and $103 million
and $109 million, respectively, in emerging market loans, all of which are
valued on a mark-to-market basis. Of the $1.14 billion and $1.28 billion in
emerging market securities and loans, as of February 1999 and November 1998,
respectively, approximately $778 million and $968 million were sovereign
obligations, many of which are collateralized as to principal at stated
maturity.
 
     In September 1998, a consortium of 14 banks and brokerage firms, including
Goldman Sachs, made an equity investment in Long-Term Capital Portfolio, L.P., a
major market participant. The objectives of this investment were to provide
sufficient capital to permit Long-Term Capital Portfolio, L.P. to continue
active management of its positions and, over time, to reduce risk exposures and
leverage, to return capital to the participants in the consortium and ultimately
to realize the potential value of the portfolio. We invested $300 million in
Long-Term Capital Portfolio, L.P.
 
CREDIT RATINGS
 
     Goldman Sachs relies upon the debt capital markets to fund a significant
portion of its day-to-day operations. The cost and availability of debt
financing is influenced by our credit ratings. Credit ratings are also important
to us when competing in certain markets and when seeking to engage in
longer-term transactions, including over-the-counter derivatives. A reduction in
our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to
the capital markets. This, in turn, could reduce our earnings and adversely
affect our liquidity.
 
                                       50
<PAGE>   51
 
     The following table sets forth our credit ratings as of November 1998:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                SHORT-TERM DEBT    LONG-TERM DEBT
                                                ---------------    --------------
<S>                                             <C>                <C>
Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ..............  P-1                A1
Standard & Poor's Ratings Services(1).........  A-1+               A+
Fitch IBCA, Inc. .............................  F1+                AA-
CBRS Inc. ....................................  A-1 (High)         A+
</TABLE>
 
       -----------------------------
       (1) On September 25, 1998, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services
           affirmed Goldman Sachs' credit ratings but revised its outlook
           to "negative". On April 16, 1999, Standard & Poor's Ratings
           Services revised its outlook to "stable".
 
                            ------------------------
 
LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     As of November 1998, our consolidated long-term borrowings were $19.91
billion. Substantially all of these borrowings were unsecured and consisted
principally of senior borrowings with maturities extending to 2024. The weighted
average maturity of our long-term borrowings as of November 1998 was
approximately four years. Substantially all of our long-term borrowings are
swapped into U.S. dollar obligations with short-term floating rates of interest
in order to minimize our exposure to interest rates and foreign exchange
movements. See Note 5 to the audited consolidated financial statements for
further information regarding our long-term borrowings.
 
                             REGULATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
     Many of our principal subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation in
the United States and elsewhere. Goldman, Sachs & Co., a registered U.S.
broker-dealer, is regulated by the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, the Chicago Board of Trade, the NYSE and the NASD. Goldman Sachs
International, a registered United Kingdom broker-dealer, is subject to
regulation by the Securities and Futures Authority Limited and the Financial
Services Authority. Goldman Sachs (Japan) Ltd., a Tokyo-based broker-dealer, is
subject to regulation by the Japanese Ministry of Finance, the Financial
Supervisory Agency, the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Tokyo International Financial
Futures Exchange and the Japan Securities Dealers Association. Several other
subsidiaries of Goldman Sachs are regulated by securities, investment advisory,
banking and other regulators and authorities around the world. Compliance with
the rules of these regulators may prevent us from receiving distributions,
advances or repayment of liabilities from these subsidiaries. See Note 8 to the
audited consolidated financial statements and Note 5 to the unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our
regulated subsidiaries.
 
                                RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     Goldman Sachs has a comprehensive risk management process to monitor,
evaluate and manage the principal risks assumed in conducting its activities.
These risks include market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal and
reputational exposures.
 
RISK MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
 
     Goldman Sachs seeks to monitor and control its risk exposure through a
variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational and legal
reporting systems. We believe that we have effective procedures for evaluating
and managing the market, credit and other risks to which we are exposed.
Nonetheless, the effectiveness of our policies and procedures for managing risk
exposure can never be completely or accurately predicted or fully assured. For
example, unexpectedly large or rapid movements or disruptions in one or more
markets or other unforeseen developments can have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations and financial condition. The consequences of these
developments can include losses due to adverse changes in inventory values, de-
 
                                       51
<PAGE>   52
 
creases in the liquidity of trading positions, higher volatility in our
earnings, increases in our credit risk to customers and counterparties and
increases in general systemic risk. See "Risk Factors -- Market Fluctuations
Could Adversely Affect Our Businesses in Many Ways" for a discussion of the
effect that market fluctuations can have on our businesses.
 
     Goldman Sachs has established risk control procedures at several levels
throughout the organization. Trading desk managers have the first line of
responsibility for managing risk within prescribed limits. These managers have
in-depth knowledge of the primary sources of risk in their individual markets
and the instruments available to hedge our exposures. In addition, a number of
committees described in the following table are responsible for establishing
trading limits, monitoring adherence to these limits and for general oversight
of our risk management process.
 
                                       52
<PAGE>   53
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               COMMITTEE                                          FUNCTION
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>
  Management Committee                   All risk control functions ultimately report to the
                                         Management Committee. Through both direct and delegated
                                         authority, the Management Committee approves all of
                                         Goldman Sachs':
                                         - operating activities;
                                         - trading risk parameters; and
                                         - customer review guidelines.
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Risk Committees                        The Firmwide Risk Committee:
                                         - periodically reviews the activities of existing
                                           businesses;
                                         - approves new businesses and products;
                                         - approves divisional market risk limits and reviews
                                         business unit market risk limits;
                                         - approves inventory position limits for selected country
                                           exposures and business units;
                                         - approves sovereign credit risk limits and credit risk
                                         limits by ratings group; and
                                         - reviews scenario analyses based on abnormal or
                                           "catastrophic" market movements.
                                         The FICC Risk Committee sets market risk limits for
                                         individual business units and sets issuer-specific net
                                         inventory position limits.
                                         The Equities Risk Committee sets market risk limits for
                                         individual business units that consist of gross and net
                                         inventory position limits and, for equity derivatives,
                                         limits based on market move scenario analysis.
                                         The Asset Management Control Oversight Committee and Asset
                                         Management Risk Committee oversee various operational,
                                         credit, pricing and business practices issues.
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Global Compliance and Control          The Global Compliance and Control Committee provides
     Committee                           oversight of our compliance and control functions,
                                         including internal audit, reviews our legal, reputational,
                                         operational and control risks, and periodically reviews
                                         the activities of existing businesses.
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Commitments Committee                  The Commitments Committee approves:
                                         - equity and non-investment grade debt underwriting
                                           commitments;
                                         - loans extended by Goldman Sachs; and
                                         - unusual financing structures and transactions that
                                         involve significant capital exposure.
                                         The Commitments Committee has delegated to the Credit
                                         Department the authority to approve underwriting
                                         commitments for investment grade debt and certain other
                                         products.
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Credit Policy Committee                The Credit Policy Committee establishes and reviews broad
                                         credit policies and parameters that are implemented by the
                                         Credit Department.
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Finance Committee                      The Finance Committee is responsible for oversight of our
                                         capital, liquidity and funding needs and for setting
                                         certain inventory position limits.
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
 
                                       53
<PAGE>   54
 
     Segregation of duties and management oversight are fundamental elements of
our risk management process. Accordingly, departments that are independent of
the revenue producing units, such as the Firmwide Risk, Credit, Controllers,
Global Operations, Central Compliance, Management Controls and Legal
Departments, in part perform risk management functions, which include
monitoring, analyzing and evaluating risk.
 
MARKET RISK
 
     The potential for changes in the market value of our trading positions is
referred to as "market risk". Our trading positions result from underwriting,
market-making and proprietary trading activities.
 
     The broadly defined categories of market risk include exposures to interest
rates, currency rates, equity prices and commodity prices.
 
- - Interest rate risks primarily result from exposures to changes in the level,
  slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates,
  mortgage prepayment speeds and credit spreads.
 
- - Currency rate risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward
  prices and volatilities of currency rates.
 
- - Equity price risks result from exposures to changes in prices and volatilities
  of individual equities, equity baskets and equity indices.
 
- - Commodity price risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward
  prices and volatilities of commodities, such as electricity, natural gas,
  crude oil, petroleum products and precious and base metals.
 
     We seek to manage these risk exposures through diversifying exposures,
controlling position sizes and establishing hedges in related securities or
derivatives. For example, we may hedge a portfolio of common stock by taking an
offsetting position in a related equity-index futures contract. The ability to
manage an exposure may, however, be limited by adverse changes in the liquidity
of the security or the related hedge instrument and in the correlation of price
movements between the security and related hedge instrument.
 
     In addition to applying business judgment, senior management uses a number
of quantitative tools to manage our exposure to market risk. These tools
include:
 
- - risk limits based on a summary measure of market risk exposure referred to as
  Value-at-Risk or "VaR";
 
- - risk limits based on a scenario analysis that measures the potential effect of
  a significant widening of credit spreads on our trading net revenues;
 
- - inventory position limits for selected business units and country exposures;
  and
 
- - scenario analyses which measure the potential effect on our trading net
  revenues of abnormal market movements.
 
     We also estimate the broader potential impact of a sustained market
downturn on our investment banking and merchant banking activities.
 
     VaR.  VaR is the potential loss in value of Goldman Sachs' trading
positions due to adverse movements in markets over a defined time horizon with a
specified confidence level.
 
     For the VaR numbers reported below, a one-day time horizon and a 95%
confidence level were used. This means that there is a one in 20 chance that
daily trading net revenues will fall below the expected daily trading net
revenues by an amount at least as large as the reported VaR. Thus, shortfalls
from expected trading net revenues on a single trading day greater than the
reported VaR would be anticipated to occur, on average, about once a month.
Shortfalls on a single day can exceed reported VaR by significant amounts.
Shortfalls can also accumulate over a longer time horizon such as a number of
consecutive trading days. For a discussion of the limitations of our risk
measures, see "Risk Factors -- Our Risk Management Policies and Procedures May
Leave Us Exposed to Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk".
 
     The VaR numbers below are shown separately for interest rate, currency,
equity and
 
                                       54
<PAGE>   55
 
commodity products, as well as for our overall trading positions.
 
     These VaR numbers include the underlying product positions and related
hedges, which may include positions in other product areas. For example, the
hedge of a foreign exchange forward may include an interest rate futures
position and the hedge of a long corporate bond position may include a short
position in the related equity.
 
     VaR METHODOLOGY, ASSUMPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.  The modeling of the risk
characteristics of our trading positions involves a number of assumptions and
approximations. While management believes that these assumptions and
approximations are reasonable, there is no uniform industry methodology for
estimating VaR, and different assumptions and/or approximations could produce
materially different VaR estimates.
 
     We use historical data to estimate our VaR and, to better reflect asset
volatilities and correlations, these historical data are weighted to give
greater importance to more recent observations. Given its reliance on historical
data, VaR is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which
there are no sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions. An
inherent limitation of VaR is that past changes in market risk factors, even
when weighted toward more recent observations, may not produce accurate
predictions of future market risk. For example, the asset volatilities to which
we were exposed in the second half of 1998 were substantially larger than those
reflected in the historical data used during that time period to estimate our
VaR. Moreover, VaR calculated for a one-day time horizon does not fully capture
the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or offset with hedges
within one day.
 
     VaR also should be evaluated in light of the methodology's other
limitations. For example, when calculating the VaR numbers shown below, we
assume that asset returns are normally distributed. Non-linear risk exposures on
options and the potentially mitigating impact of intra-day changes in related
hedges would likely produce non-normal asset returns. Different distributional
assumptions could produce a materially different VaR.
 
     The following table sets forth our daily VaR for substantially all of our
trading positions:
 
                                   DAILY VaR
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             AS OF
                                                            NOVEMBER
                     RISK CATEGORIES                          1998
                     ---------------                        --------
<S>                                                         <C>
Interest rates............................................   $ 27.3
Currency rates............................................      9.0
Equity prices.............................................     25.3
Commodity prices..........................................      7.0
Diversification effect(1).................................    (25.7)
                                                             ------
Firmwide..................................................   $ 42.9
                                                             ======
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Equals the difference between firmwide daily VaR and the sum of the daily
    VaRs for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the four
    market risk categories are not perfectly correlated.
                            ------------------------
 
     The daily VaR for substantially all of our trading positions as of February
1999 was not materially different from our daily VaR as of November 1998.
 
     For a discussion of what our daily VaR would have been as of November 1998
had we used our volatility and correlation data as of May 29, 1998, see
"Business -- Trading and Principal Investments -- Trading Risk
Management -- Risk Reduction".
 
                                       55
<PAGE>   56
 
NON-TRADING RISK
 
     The market risk associated with our non-trading financial instruments,
including investments in our merchant banking funds, is measured using a
sensitivity analysis that estimates the potential reduction in our net revenues
associated with hypothetical market movements. As of February 1999 and November
1998, non-trading market risk was not material.
 
RECENT ENHANCEMENTS TO RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     While VaR continues to be a core tool in our risk management process,
management has increased its emphasis on the supplemental measures described
below:
 
- - CREDIT SPREAD LIMITS.  In addition to VaR, the Firmwide Risk Committee now
  sets market risk limits based on a scenario analysis of widening credit
  spreads similar to those experienced in the second half of 1998; and
 
- - SCENARIO ANALYSES.  Management is using scenario analyses that reflect more
  extreme market conditions, such as large increases in market volatility as
  well as substantial and sustained adverse movements in the volatility and
  correlation of our relative value positions.
 
     Notwithstanding these measures, we continue to hold trading positions that
are substantial in both number and size, and are subject to significant market
risk. In addition, management may choose to increase Goldman Sachs' risk levels
in the future. See "Risk Factors -- Market Fluctuations Could Adversely Affect
Our Businesses in Many Ways" and "-- Our Risk Management Policies and Procedures
May Leave Us Exposed to Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk" for a discussion of
the risks associated with our trading positions.
 
VALUATION OF TRADING INVENTORY
 
     Substantially all of our inventory positions are marked-to-market on a
daily basis and changes are recorded in net revenues. The individual business
units are responsible for pricing the positions they manage. The Controllers
Department, in conjunction with the Firmwide Risk Department, regularly performs
pricing reviews.
 
TRADING NET REVENUES DISTRIBUTION
 
     The following chart sets forth the frequency distribution for substantially
all of our daily trading net revenues for the year ended November 1998:
 
                           DAILY TRADING NET REVENUES
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
DAILY TRADING NET REVENUES  
 (IN MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                            DAYS
- --------------------------                           ----
<S>                                                 <C>
<(60)                                                  9
(60)-(40)                                              5
(40)-(20)                                             22
(20)-0                                                31
0-20                                                  87
20-40                                                 67
40-60                                                 24
>60                                                    6
</TABLE>
 
              DAILY TRADING NET REVENUES (IN MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
 
                                       56
<PAGE>   57
 
CREDIT RISK
 
     Credit risk represents the loss that we would incur if a counterparty or
issuer of securities or other instruments we hold fails to perform its
contractual obligations to us. To reduce our credit exposures, we seek to enter
into netting agreements with counterparties that permit us to offset receivables
and payables with such counterparties. We do not take into account any such
agreements when calculating credit risk, however, unless management believes a
legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable master netting agreement.
 
     For most businesses, counterparty credit limits are established by the
Credit Department, which is independent of the revenue-producing departments,
based on guidelines set by the Firmwide Risk and Credit Policy Committees. Our
global credit management systems monitor current and potential credit exposure
to individual counterparties and on an aggregate basis to counterparties and
their affiliates. The systems also provide management with information regarding
overall credit risk by product, industry sector, country and region.
 
RISK LIMITS
 
     Business unit risk limits are established by the risk committees and may be
further segmented by the business unit managers to individual trading desks.
 
     Market risk limits are monitored on a daily basis by the Firmwide Risk
Department and are reviewed regularly by the appropriate risk committee. Limit
violations are reported to the appropriate risk committee and the appropriate
business unit managers.
 
     Inventory position limits are monitored by the Controllers Department and
position limit violations are reported to the appropriate business unit managers
and the Finance Committee. When inventory position limits are used to monitor
market risk, they are also monitored by the Firmwide Risk Department and
violations are reported to the appropriate risk committee.
 
DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS
 
     Derivative contracts are financial instruments, such as futures, forwards,
swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from underlying assets,
indices, reference rates or a combination of these factors. Derivative
instruments may be entered into by Goldman Sachs in privately negotiated
contracts, which are often referred to as over-the-counter derivatives, or they
may be listed and traded on an exchange.
 
     Most of our derivative transactions are entered into for trading purposes.
We use derivatives in our trading activities to facilitate customer
transactions, to take proprietary positions and as a means of risk management.
We also enter into non-trading derivative contracts to manage the interest rate
and currency exposure on our long-term borrowings.
 
     Derivatives are used in many of our businesses, and we believe that the
associated market risk can only be understood relative to the underlying assets
or risks being hedged, or as part of a broader trading strategy. Accordingly,
the market risk of derivative positions is managed with all of our other
non-derivative risk.
 
     Derivative contracts are reported on a net-by-counterparty basis on our
consolidated statements of financial condition where management believes a legal
right of setoff exists under an enforceable master netting agreement.
 
     For an over-the-counter derivative, our credit exposure is directly with
our counterparty and continues until the maturity or termination of such
contract.
 
     The following table sets forth the distribution, by credit rating, of
substantially all of our exposure with respect to over-the-counter derivatives
as of November 1998, after taking into consideration the effect of netting
agreements. The categories shown reflect our internally determined public rating
agency equivalents.
 
                                       57
<PAGE>   58
 
                  OVER-THE-COUNTER DERIVATIVE CREDIT EXPOSURES
                                ($ in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
CREDIT RATING EQUIVALENT                          AMOUNT        PERCENTAGE
- ------------------------                          ------        ----------
<S>                                           <C>               <C>
AAA/Aaa.....................................      $ 2,170           12%
AA/Aa2......................................        5,571           30
A/A2........................................        4,876           26
BBB/Baa2....................................        3,133           17
BB/Ba2 or lower.............................        1,970           11
Unrated(1)..................................          730            4
                                                  -------          ---
                                                  $18,450          100%
                                                  =======          ===
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) In lieu of making an individual assessment of such counterparties' credit,
    we make a determination that the collateral held in respect of such
    obligations is sufficient to cover our exposure. In making this
    determination, we take into account various factors, including legal
    uncertainties and market volatility.
 
                            ------------------------
 
     As of November 1998, we held approximately $2.97 billion in collateral
against these over-the-counter derivative exposures. This collateral consists
predominantly of cash and U.S. government and agency securities and is usually
received by us under agreements entitling us to require additional collateral
upon specified increases in exposure or the occurrence of negative credit
events.
 
     In addition to obtaining collateral and seeking netting agreements, we
attempt to mitigate default risk on derivatives by entering into agreements that
enable us to terminate or reset the terms of transactions after specified time
periods or upon the occurrence of credit-related events, and by seeking third-
party guarantees of the obligations of some counterparties.
 
     Derivatives transactions may also involve the legal risk that they are not
authorized or appropriate for a counterparty, that documentation has not been
properly executed or that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the
counterparty. We attempt to minimize these risks by obtaining advice of counsel
on the enforceability of agreements as well as on the authority of a
counterparty to effect the derivative transaction.
 
OPERATIONAL AND YEAR 2000 RISKS
 
     OPERATIONAL RISK.  Goldman Sachs may face reputational damage, financial
loss or regulatory risk in the event of an operational failure or error. A
systems failure or failure to enter a trade properly into our records may result
in an inability to settle transactions in a timely manner or a breach of
regulatory requirements. Settlement errors or delays may cause losses due to
damages owed to counterparties or movements in prices. These operational and
systems risks may arise in connection with our own systems or as a result of the
failure of an agent acting on our behalf.
 
     The Global Operations Department is responsible for establishing,
maintaining and approving policies and controls with respect to the accurate
inputting and processing of transactions, clearance and settlement of
transactions, the custody of securities and other instruments and the detection
and prevention of employee errors or improper or fraudulent activities. Its
personnel work closely with the Information Technology Department in creating
systems to enable appropriate supervision and management of its policies. The
Global Operations Department is also responsible, together with other areas of
Goldman Sachs, including the Legal and Compliance Departments, for ensuring
compliance with applicable regulations with respect to the clearance and
settlement of transactions and the margining of positions. The Network
Management Department oversees our relationships with our clearance and
settlement agents, regularly reviews agents' performance and meets with these
agents to review operational issues.
 
                                       58
<PAGE>   59
 
     YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE.  Goldman Sachs has determined that it will
be required to modify or replace portions of its information technology systems,
both hardware and software, and its non-information technology systems so that
they will properly recognize and utilize dates beyond December 31, 1999. We
presently believe that with modifications to existing software, conversions to
new software and replacement of some hardware, the Year 2000 issue will be
satisfactorily resolved in our own systems worldwide. However, if such
modifications and conversions are not made or are not completed on a timely
basis, the Year 2000 issue would have a material adverse effect on Goldman
Sachs. Moreover, even if these changes are successful, failure of third parties
to which we are financially or operationally linked to address their own Year
2000 problems would also have a material adverse effect on Goldman Sachs. For a
description of the Year 2000 issue and some of the related risks, including
possible problems that could arise, see "Risk Factors -- Our Computer Systems
and Those of Third Parties May Not Achieve Year 2000 Readiness -- Year 2000
Readiness Disclosure".
 
     Recognizing the broad scope and complexity of the Year 2000 problem, we
have established a Year 2000 Oversight Committee to promote awareness and ensure
the active participation of senior management. This Committee, together with
numerous sub-committees chaired by senior managers throughout Goldman Sachs and
our Global Year 2000 Project Office, is responsible for planning, managing and
monitoring our Year 2000 efforts on a global basis. Our Management Controls
Department assesses the scope and sufficiency of our Year 2000 program and
verifies that the principal aspects of our Year 2000 program are being
implemented according to plan.
 
     Our Year 2000 plans are based on a five-phase approach, which includes
awareness; inventory, assessment and planning; remediation; testing; and
implementation. The awareness phase (in which we defined the scope and
components of the problem, our methodology and approach and obtained senior
management support and funding) was completed in September 1997. We also
completed the inventory, assessment and planning phase for our systems in
September 1997. By the end of March 1999, we completed the remediation, testing
and implementation phases for 99% of our mission-critical systems, and we plan
to complete these three phases for the remaining 1% by the end of June 1999. In
March 1999, we completed the first cycle of our internal integration testing
with respect to critical securities and transaction flows. This cycle, which
related to U.S. products, was completed successfully with no material problem.
The remaining cycle, which will relate primarily to non-U.S. products, is to be
completed in June 1999. This testing is intended to validate that our systems
can successfully perform critical business functions beginning in January 2000.
With respect to our non-mission-critical systems, we expect to complete our Year
2000 efforts during calendar 1999.
 
     For technology products that are supplied by third-party vendors, we have
completed an inventory, ranked products according to their importance and
developed a strategy for achieving Year 2000 readiness for substantially all
non-compliant versions of software and hardware. While this process included
collecting information from vendors, we are not relying solely on vendors'
verifications that their products are Year 2000 compliant or ready. As of March
31, 1999, we had substantially completed testing and implementation of
vendor-supplied technology products that we consider mission-critical. With
respect to telecommunications carriers, we are relying on information provided
by these vendors as to whether they are Year 2000 compliant because these
vendors have indicated that they will not test with individual companies.
 
     We are also addressing Year 2000 issues that may exist outside our own
technology activities, including our facilities, external service providers and
other third parties with which we interface. We have inventoried and ranked our
customers, business and trading partners, utilities, exchanges, depositories,
clearing and custodial banks and other third parties with which we have
important financial and operational relationships. We are continuing to assess
the Year 2000 preparedness of
                                       59
<PAGE>   60
 
these customers, business and trading partners and other third parties.
 
     By the end of March 1999, we had participated in approximately 115
"external", i.e., industry-wide or point-to-point, tests with exchanges,
clearing houses and other industry utilities, as well as the "Beta" test
sponsored by the Securities Industry Association for its U.S. members in July
1998. We successfully completed all of these tests with no material problems. By
the end of June 1999, we expect to have participated in approximately 60
additional external tests, including the Securities Industry Association
"Streetwide" test scheduled to be completed in April 1999 and other major
industry tests in those global markets where we conduct significant business.
 
     Acknowledging that a Year 2000 failure, whether internal or external, could
have an adverse effect on the ability to conduct day-to-day business, we are
employing a comprehensive and global approach to contingency planning. Our
contingency planning objective is to identify potential system failure points
that support processes that are critical to our mission and to develop
contingency plans for those failures that may reasonably be expected to occur,
with the general goal of ensuring, to the maximum extent practical, that minimum
acceptable levels of service can be maintained by us. In the event of system
failures, our contingency plans will not guarantee that existing levels of
service will be fully maintained, especially if these failures involve external
systems or processes over which we have little or no direct control or involve
multiple failures across a variety of systems.
 
     We anticipate that contingency plans for our core business units will be
substantially completed during June 1999, and by September 30, 1999 for the rest
of our businesses. In addition, we are developing contingency plans for funding
and balance sheet management and other related activities. We expect our
contingency plans to include establishing additional sources of liquidity that
could be drawn upon in the event of systems disruption. We are also developing a
crisis management group to guide us through the transition period. We expect to
reduce trading activity in the period leading up to January 2000 to minimize the
impact of potential Year 2000-related failures. A reduction in trading activity
by us or by other market participants in anticipation of possible Year 2000
problems could adversely affect our results of operations, as discussed under
"Risk Factors -- Our Computer Systems and Those of Third Parties May Not Achieve
Year 2000 Readiness -- Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure".
 
     We have incurred and expect to continue to incur expenses allocable to
internal staff, as well as costs for outside consultants, to complete the
remediation and testing of internally developed systems and the replacement and
testing of third-party products and services, including non-technology products
and services, in order to achieve Year 2000 compliance. We currently estimate
that these costs will total approximately $150 million, a substantial majority
of which has been spent to date. These estimates include the cost of technology
personnel but do not include the cost of most non-technology personnel involved
in our Year 2000 effort. The remaining cost of our Year 2000 program is expected
to be incurred in 1999 and early 2000. The Year 2000 program costs will continue
to be funded through operating cash flow. These costs are expensed as incurred.
We do not expect that the costs associated with implementing our Year 2000
program will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations,
financial condition, liquidity or capital resources.
 
     The costs of the Year 2000 program and the date on which we plan to
complete the Year 2000 modifications are based on current estimates, which
reflect numerous assumptions about future events, including the continued
availability of resources, the timing and effectiveness of third-party
remediation plans and other factors. We can give no assurance that these
estimates will be achieved, and actual results could differ materially from our
plans. Specific factors that might cause material differences include, but are
not limited to, the availability and cost of personnel trained in this area, the
ability to locate and correct relevant computer source codes and embedded chip
technology, the results of internal
 
                                       60
<PAGE>   61
 
and external testing and the timeliness and effectiveness of remediation efforts
of third parties.
 
     In order to focus attention on the Year 2000 problem, management has
deferred several technology projects that address other issues. However, we do
not believe that this deferral will have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations or financial condition.
 
                            ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS
 
     In June 1996, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 125, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing
of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities", effective for
transactions occurring after December 31, 1996. Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 125 establishes standards for distinguishing transfers
of financial assets that are accounted for as sales from transfers that are
accounted for as secured borrowings.
 
     The provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125
relating to repurchase agreements, securities lending transactions and other
similar transactions were deferred by the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 127, "Deferral of the Effective Date of Certain
Provisions of FASB Statement No. 125", and became effective for transactions
entered into after December 31, 1997. This Statement requires that the
collateral obtained in certain types of secured lending transactions be recorded
on the balance sheet with a corresponding liability reflecting the obligation to
return such collateral to its owner. Effective January 1, 1998, we adopted the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125 that were
deferred by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 127. The adoption of
this standard increased our total assets and liabilities by $8.99 billion and
$11.64 billion as of February 1999 and November 1998, respectively.
 
     In February 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings Per Share", effective for
periods ending after December 15, 1997, with restatement required for all prior
periods. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128 establishes new
standards for computing and presenting earnings per share. This Statement
replaces primary and fully diluted earnings per share with "basic earnings per
share", which excludes dilution, and "diluted earnings per share", which
includes the effect of all potentially dilutive common shares and other dilutive
securities. Because we have not historically reported earnings per share, this
Statement will have no impact on our historical financial statements. This
Statement will, however, apply to our financial statements that are prepared
after the offerings. See "Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information" for a
calculation of pro forma earnings per share.
 
     In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information", effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1997, with reclassification of earlier periods required for
comparative purposes. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131
establishes the criteria for determining an operating segment and establishes
the disclosure requirements for reporting information about operating segments.
We intend to adopt this standard at the end of fiscal 1999. This Statement is
limited to issues of reporting and presentation and, therefore, will not affect
our results of operations or financial condition.
 
     In February 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 132, "Employers' Disclosures about
Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits", effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1997, with restatement of disclosures for earlier
periods required for comparative purposes. Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 132 revises certain employers' disclosures about pension and other
post-retirement benefit plans. We intend to adopt this standard at the end of
fiscal 1999. This Statement is limited to issues of reporting and
 
                                       61
<PAGE>   62
 
presentation and, therefore, will not affect our results of operations or
financial condition.
 
     In March 1998, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of Position No. 98-1,
"Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for
Internal Use", effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1998.
Statement of Position No. 98-1 requires that certain costs of computer software
developed or obtained for internal use be capitalized and amortized over the
useful life of the related software. We currently expense the cost of all
software development in the period in which it is incurred. We intend to adopt
this Statement in fiscal 2000 and are currently assessing its effect.
 
     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities", effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15,
1999. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 establishes accounting
and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative
instruments embedded in other contracts (collectively referred to as
derivatives), and for hedging activities. This Statement requires that an entity
recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of
financial condition and measure those instruments at fair value. The accounting
for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on its intended
use and the resulting designation. We intend to adopt this standard in fiscal
2000 and are currently assessing its effect.
 
                                       62
<PAGE>   63
 
                         INDUSTRY AND ECONOMIC OUTLOOK
 
     As a global provider of financial services, Goldman Sachs is affected by
overall macroeconomic and market conditions in various regions around the world.
For a number of years, we have operated in a generally favorable macroeconomic
environment characterized by low inflation, low and declining interest rates and
strong equity markets. In particular, the U.S. economy, the largest in the world
and an important influence on overall world economic activity, has been
undergoing one of the longest periods of post-war economic expansion. As of
March 1999, the current U.S. expansion had lasted 96 months compared to a
post-war average period of expansion of 46 months.
 
     Recognizing that the favorable macroeconomic and market environments will
be subject to periodic reversals, which may significantly and adversely affect
our businesses, we believe that significant growth and profit opportunities
exist for financial intermediaries in the United States and abroad. These
opportunities derive from several long-term trends, including the following:
 
- - DEREGULATION.  Financial market deregulation, including the elimination of
  bank deposit interest rate ceilings and the expansion of commercial banks and
  other financial institutions into securities underwriting activities, has
  resulted in the creation of new and broader sources of credit, which have
  reduced the variability and the cyclicality in the supply of credit. This, in
  turn, has in the past reduced volatility in economic activity, leading to
  longer economic expansions with increased investment spending, resulting in
  higher levels of capital raising;
 
- - GLOBALIZATION.  Heightened global competition has created a need for
  cross-border capabilities and economies of scale, resulting in increased joint
  venture and mergers and acquisitions activity;
 
- - FOCUS ON SHAREHOLDER VALUE.  Increasing focus on shareholder value has fueled
  an increase in restructuring and strategic initiatives, yielding additional
  financial advisory and capital-raising opportunities;
 
- - CONSOLIDATION.  Moderate growth, limited pricing flexibility and the need for
  economies of scale have substantially increased consolidation opportunities in
  certain industries, and record levels of profit have provided companies with
  the resources to pursue strategic combinations, creating substantial demand
  for mergers and acquisitions advisory services and subsequent capital raising;
 
- - DEMOGRAPHICS.  Changing demographics in the United States and other developed
  economies have increased the pool of savings available for private investment
  and the need for increased funding of pension plans due to the aging of the
  population, creating substantial demand for investment products and services;
  and
 
- - FINANCIAL PRODUCT INNOVATION.  Technology and financial expertise have led to
  the development of new financial products better tailored to the risk/reward
  requirements of investors, increasing trading flows and proprietary investment
  opportunities.
 
     We believe that over the last 15 years these trends, coupled with generally
declining interest rates and favorable market conditions, have contributed to a
substantially higher rate of growth in activity in the financial services
industry than the growth in overall economic activity. The future economic
environment may not be as favorable as that experienced in the last 15 years
and, in particular, the period of declining interest rates in the United States
may not continue. There may also be periods of adverse economic and market
conditions. Nonetheless, we believe that these trends should continue to affect
the financial services industry positively over the long term. However, see
"Risk Factors -- Market Fluctuations Could Adversely Affect Our Businesses in
Many Ways" for a discussion of the effect that adverse economic conditions and
market fluctuations can have on our businesses.
 
                                       63
<PAGE>   64
 
     The following table sets forth selected key industry indicators:
 
                            KEY INDUSTRY INDICATORS
                 ($ in billions, except gross domestic product)
                         (volume in millions of shares)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           AS OF OR FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                          --------------------------------------    CAGR(8)
                                           1983      1988      1993       1998      '83-'98
                                           ----      ----      ----       ----      -------
<S>                                       <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>
GENERAL ECONOMIC ACTIVITY:
(in trillions)
Worldwide gross domestic product(1).....  $   10    $   18    $    24    $    29(9)    8%(9)
U.S. gross domestic product(2)..........       4         5          7          9       6
 
ADVISORY ACTIVITIES/FINANCING:
Worldwide mergers and acquisitions(3)...      96       527        460      2,522      24
Worldwide equity issued(3)..............      50        51        172        269      12
Worldwide debt issued(3)................     146       631      1,546      2,932      22
 
WORLD EQUITY MARKETS:
Worldwide equity market
  capitalization(4).....................   3,384     9,728     14,016     27,459      15
U.S. market capitalization(4)...........   1,898     2,794      5,136     13,451      14
FT/S&P Actuaries World
  Indices(TM) -- The World Index(5).....      NA       129        178        359      11
Dow Jones Industrial Average............   1,259     2,169      3,754      9,181      14
S&P 500.................................     165       278        466      1,229      14
NYSE average daily volume...............      85       162        265        674      15
 
INVESTED FUNDS:
Worldwide pension assets(6).............  $1,900    $3,752    $ 6,560    $10,975      12
Number of U.S. mutual funds(7)..........   1,026     2,715      4,558      7,343      14
U.S. mutual fund assets(7)..............  $  293    $  810    $ 2,075    $ 5,530      22
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Source: The Economist Intelligence Unit, January 1999.
(2) Source: U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis.
(3) Source: Securities Data Company.
(4) Source: International Finance Corporation.
(5) Index is calculated on a local currency basis based on total returns. CAGR
    is based on 1988-1998 data. The FT/S&P Actuaries World Indices are owned by
    FTSE International Limited, Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Standard & Poor's
    Ratings Services. The Indices are compiled by FTSE International and
    Standard & Poor's Ratings Services in conjunction with the Faculty of
    Actuaries and the Institute of Actuaries.
(6) Source: InterSec Research Corp.
(7) Source: Investment Company Institute.
(8) Compound annual growth rate.
(9) Data as of December 31, 1997; CAGR 1983-1997.
 
                                       64
<PAGE>   65
 
     We believe scale, global resources and leading market positions are
important competitive advantages for financial intermediaries in this
environment. In addition, we believe that circumstances in certain regions
should provide opportunities for financial intermediaries.
 
                                     EUROPE
 
     The European Economic and Monetary Union commenced on January 1, 1999 and
created a monetary union in Europe with a single currency. As a result, we
believe that over time a pan-European capital market will develop that is likely
to rival that of the United States in size and liquidity. We believe that
financial intermediaries generally are expected to benefit from a number of
anticipated developments, including:
 
- - pan-European consolidation and financial restructuring yielding an increase in
  mergers and acquisitions activity;
 
- - an increase in third-party assets under management and a major shift towards
  investments in equity securities due to an expected move to private pension
  fund systems, changing demographics and the elimination of intra-European
  Economic and Monetary Union currency risk;
 
- - a reallocation of equity portfolios to reflect pan-European indices;
 
- - the establishment of a European high-yield market to fund the growth of
  emerging high-growth industries and to satisfy investors' demands for higher
  yield; and
 
- - increased equity issuance and higher equity trading volumes.
 
                                      ASIA
 
     Since 1997, the currency weakness and disruptions, the deterioration in
certain of the region's banking systems, the weakness in the property sector in
many of the region's countries, as well as slowing consumer income growth, have
led to a significant and continuing weakening of these economies and their stock
markets. These developments have adversely affected the economic and market
conditions in the region and at times have affected economic and market
conditions elsewhere. We believe, however, that financial intermediaries could
have significant opportunities in this region if stability improves and the
economies, which represent approximately 60% of the world's population, resume
their growth. In the near term, these potential opportunities could include:
 
- -  an increase in mergers and acquisitions and other financial advisory services
   in connection with corporate restructurings;
 
- -  an increase in trading opportunities as financial intermediaries meet the
   liquidity needs of their clients; and
 
- -  an increase in capital raising as Asian corporations and governments access
   the international capital markets rather than the regional banking system to
   refinance and to fund future growth.
 
In the longer term, these potential opportunities could include:
 
- -  the emergence of corporate and real estate principal investment opportunities
   as a result of corporate and government restructurings; and
 
- -  an increase in third-party assets under management and a major shift towards
   investments in equity securities due to an anticipated move to private
   pension fund systems, changing demographics and the relaxation of foreign
   exchange restrictions.
 
                                       65
<PAGE>   66
 
                                    BUSINESS
 
                                    OVERVIEW
 
     Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking and securities firm
with three principal business lines:
 
- - Investment Banking;
- - Trading and Principal Investments; and
- - Asset Management and Securities Services.
 
Our goal is to be the advisor of choice for our clients and a leading
participant in global financial markets. We provide services worldwide to a
substantial and diversified client base, which includes corporations, financial
institutions, governments and high net worth individuals.
 
     Because we believe that the needs of our clients are global and that
international markets have high growth potential, we have built upon our
strength in the United States to achieve leading positions in other parts of the
world. Today, we have a strong global presence as evidenced by the geographic
breadth of our transactions, leadership in our core products and the size of our
international operations. As of February 1999, we operated offices in 23
countries and 36% of our 13,000 employees were based outside the United States.
 
     We are committed to a distinctive culture and set of core values. These
values are reflected in our Business Principles, which emphasize placing our
clients' interests first, integrity, commitment to excellence and innovation,
and teamwork.
 
     Goldman Sachs is managed by its principal owners. Simultaneously with the
offerings, we will grant restricted stock units, stock options or interests in a
defined contribution plan to substantially all of our employees. Following the
offerings, our employees, including former partners, will own approximately 65%
of Goldman Sachs. None of our employees are selling shares in the offerings.
 
     Goldman Sachs is the successor to a commercial paper business founded in
1869 by Marcus Goldman. Since then, we have grown our business as a participant
and intermediary in securities and other financial activities to become one of
the leading firms in the industry.
 
     In 1989, The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. was formed to serve as the parent
company of the Goldman Sachs organization. As of November 30, 1996, The Goldman
Sachs Group, L.P. was restructured. On that date, the non-retiring former
general partners of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. converted their general
partner interests into limited partner interests and became profit participating
limited partners of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. Concurrently, The Goldman
Sachs Corporation was admitted as The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.'s sole general
partner. The common stock of The Goldman Sachs Corporation is owned by our
managing directors who are profit participating limited partners, all of whom
are active in our businesses.
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. was formed to succeed to the business of The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. Simultaneously with the offerings, we will complete a
number of transactions in order to convert from partnership to corporate form.
See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions -- Incorporation and Related
Transactions" for additional information concerning these transactions.
 
                               MARKET SHARE DATA
 
     Except as otherwise indicated, all amounts with respect to the volume,
number and market share of mergers and acquisitions and underwriting
transactions and related ranking information have been derived from information
compiled and classified by Securities Data Company. Securities Data Company
obtains and gathers its information from sources it considers reliable, but
Securities Data Company does not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of the
information. In the case of mergers and acquisitions, data are based upon the
dollar value of announced transactions for the period indicated, taken as a
whole, with full credit to each of the advisors to each party in a transaction.
In the case of underwritings, data are based upon the dollar value of total
proceeds raised (exclusive of any option to purchase additional shares) with
equal credit to each bookrunner for the period indicated, taken as

                                       66
<PAGE>   67
 
a whole. As a result of this method of compiling data, percentages may add to
more than 100%.
 
                     STRATEGY AND PRINCIPAL BUSINESS LINES
 
     Our strategy is to grow our three core businesses -- Investment Banking,
Trading and Principal Investments, and Asset Management and Securities
Services -- in markets throughout the world. Our leadership position in
investment banking provides us with access to governments, financial
institutions and corporate clients globally. Trading and principal investing has
been an important part of our culture and earnings, and we remain committed to
these businesses irrespective of their volatility. Managing wealth is one of the
fastest growing segments of the financial services industry and we are
positioning our asset management and securities services businesses to take
advantage of that growth. Our assets under supervision, for example, have grown
from $92.7 billion as of November 1994 to $369.7 billion as of February 1999,
representing a compound annual growth rate of 38%.
 
     Our business lines are comprised of various product and service offerings
that are set forth in the following chart:
 
                PRIMARY PRODUCTS AND ACTIVITIES BY BUSINESS LINE
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                TRADING AND PRINCIPAL        ASSET MANAGEMENT AND
    INVESTMENT BANKING               INVESTMENTS              SECURITIES SERVICES
    ------------------          ---------------------        --------------------
<S>                          <C>                          <C>
- -- Equity and debt           -- Bank loans                -- Commissions
   underwriting              -- Commodities               -- Institutional and high
- -- Financial restructuring   -- Currencies                   net worth asset
   advisory services         -- Equity and fixed income      management
- -- Mergers and acquisitions     derivatives               -- Margin lending
   advisory services         -- Equity and fixed income   -- Matched book
- -- Real estate advisory         securities                -- Merchant banking fees
   services                  -- Principal investments     -- Increased shares of
                             -- Proprietary arbitrage        merchant banking fund
                                                             income and gains
                                                          -- Mutual funds
                                                          -- Prime brokerage
                                                          -- Securities lending
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
INVESTMENT BANKING
 
     Investment Banking represented 39% of 1998 net revenues and 35% of 1997 net
revenues. We are a market leader in both the financial advisory and underwriting
businesses, serving over 3,000 clients worldwide. For the period January 1, 1994
to December 31, 1998, we had the industry-leading market share of 25.3% in
worldwide mergers and acquisitions advisory services, having advised on over
$1.7 trillion of transactions. Over the same period, we also achieved number one
market shares of 15.2% in underwriting worldwide initial public offerings and
14.4% in underwriting worldwide common stock issues.
 
TRADING AND PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS
 
     Trading and Principal Investments represented 28% of 1998 net revenues and
39% of 1997 net revenues. We make markets in equity and fixed income products,
currencies and commodities; enter into swaps and other derivative transactions;
engage in proprietary trading and arbitrage; and make principal investments. In
trading, we focus on building lasting relationships with our most active clients
while maintaining leadership positions in our key markets. We believe our
research, market-making and proprietary activities enhance our understanding of
markets and ability to serve our clients.
 
ASSET MANAGEMENT AND SECURITIES SERVICES
 
     Asset Management and Securities Services represented 33% of 1998 net
revenues and 26% of 1997 net revenues. We provide global investment management
and advisory services; earn commissions on agency transactions; manage merchant
banking funds; and provide prime brokerage, securities lending and financing
services. Our asset management business has grown rapidly, with assets
 
                                       67
<PAGE>   68
 
under supervision increasing from $92.7 billion as of November 25, 1994 to
$369.7 billion as of February 26, 1999, representing a compound annual growth
rate of 38%. As of February 26, 1999, we had $206.4 billion of assets under
management. We manage merchant banking funds that had $15.5 billion of capital
commitments as of the end of 1998.
 
     We pursue our strategy to grow our three core businesses through an
emphasis on:
 
EXPANDING HIGH VALUE-ADDED BUSINESSES
 
     To achieve strong growth and high returns, we seek to build leadership
positions in high value-added services for our clients. For example, we have
substantially increased the number of professionals in investment banking to
improve and expand our ability to execute mergers and acquisitions, initial
public offerings and high-yield financings. In trading, we structure and execute
large and complex transactions for institutional investors, pension funds and
corporate clients around the world. In asset management, we emphasize equity and
alternative investment products and use our established international presence
to build a global asset management franchise.
 
INCREASING THE STABILITY OF OUR EARNINGS
 
     We seek to balance the stability of our earnings with return on equity and
long-term earnings growth. We believe our trading businesses are key ingredients
to our success. While we plan to continue to grow our trading businesses, the
financial market shocks of the past year underscored the importance of our
strategy of emphasizing growth in our investment banking, asset management and
securities services businesses. Through a greater relative emphasis on these
businesses, our goal is to gradually increase the stability of our earnings.
 
PURSUING INTERNATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
 
     We believe that our global reach will allow us to take advantage of growth
in international markets. In Europe, for example, we anticipate that the recent
establishment of the European Economic and Monetary Union will, over time,
create a large pan-European market rivaling the U.S. capital markets in size and
liquidity. We believe this will generate increased activity across our
businesses in the region. In Asia, we believe that an increase in corporate
restructurings and in the need for liquidity will increase our mergers and
acquisitions and trading opportunities. In the longer term, we anticipate
additional opportunities in asset management activities due to a shift we
anticipate toward the privatization of pension systems and in demographics.
 
LEVERAGING THE FRANCHISE
 
     We believe our various businesses are generally stronger and more
successful because they are part of the Goldman Sachs franchise. Our culture of
teamwork fosters cooperation among our businesses, which allows us to provide
our clients with a full range of products and services on a coordinated basis.
Our investment bankers, for example, refer clients who are selling their
businesses to those in Goldman Sachs who manage wealth. In addition, our
merchant banking investments in companies lead to future clients for investment
banking.
 
                             COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS
 
STRONG CLIENT RELATIONSHIPS
 
     We focus on building long-term client relationships. In 1998, over 75% of
our Investment Banking revenues represented business from existing clients. We
also aggressively pursue new client relationships as evidenced by the over 400
investment banking transactions we completed for first-time clients in 1998. In
our trading businesses, we structure and execute transactions across a wide
array of markets and countries to meet our clients' needs. In our asset
management business, we managed assets for three of the five largest pension
pools in the United States as ranked as of September 30, 1998 by Pensions &
Investments and maintain accounts for 41% of the 1998 "Forbes 400 List of the
Richest Americans".
 
DISTINCTIVE PEOPLE AND CULTURE
 
     Our most important asset is our people. We seek to reinforce our employees'
commitment to our culture and values through

                                       68
<PAGE>   69
 
recruiting, training, a comprehensive 360-degree review system and a
compensation philosophy that rewards teamwork. We were ranked number seven in
Fortune magazine's "The 100 Best Companies to Work for in America" in January
1999 and were ranked number three in Fortune magazine's 1999 "The Top 50 MBA
Dream Companies", the highest-ranked investment banking and securities firm in
each case.
 
GLOBAL REACH
 
     Over the past decade, we have made a significant commitment to building a
worldwide business. We have achieved leading positions in major international
markets by capitalizing on our product knowledge and global research, as well as
by building a local presence where appropriate. In doing so, we have become one
of the few truly global investment banking and securities firms with the ability
to execute large and complex cross-border transactions. We had the number one
market share of 23.2% in cross-border mergers and acquisitions for the period
January 1, 1994 to December 31, 1998. In addition, in Japan, we were the largest
non-Japanese mutual fund manager as of the end of February 1999, according to
The Investment Trusts Association.
 
                            ------------------------
 
                             SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER             FEBRUARY
                             --------------------------    ------------------
                              1996      1997      1998      1998       1999
                              ----      ----      ----      ----       ----
<S>                          <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>
Net revenues:
  Investment Banking.......  $2,113    $2,587    $3,368    $  633     $  902
  Trading and Principal
     Investments...........   2,693     2,926     2,379     1,182      1,357
  Asset Management and
     Securities Services...   1,323     1,934     2,773       657        736
                             ------    ------    ------    ------     ------
Total net revenues.........  $6,129    $7,447    $8,520    $2,472     $2,995
                             ======    ======    ======    ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
                               INVESTMENT BANKING
 
     Goldman Sachs provides a broad range of investment banking services to a
diverse group of over 3,000 clients worldwide, including corporations, financial
institutions, governments and individuals. Our investment banking activities are
divided into two categories:
 
- - FINANCIAL ADVISORY.  Financial advisory includes advisory assignments with
  respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense
  activities, restructurings and spin-offs; and
 
- - UNDERWRITING.  Underwriting includes public offerings and private placements
  of equity and debt securities.
 
                                       69
<PAGE>   70
 
     The following table sets forth the net revenues of our Investment Banking
business:
 
                        INVESTMENT BANKING NET REVENUES
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 THREE
                                                              MONTHS ENDED
                                   YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER          FEBRUARY
                                --------------------------    ------------
                                 1996      1997      1998     1998    1999
                                 ----      ----      ----     ----    ----
<S>                             <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>     <C>
Financial advisory............  $  931    $1,184    $1,774    $363    $522
Underwriting..................   1,182     1,403     1,594     270     380
                                ------    ------    ------    ----    ----
Total Investment Banking......  $2,113    $2,587    $3,368    $633    $902
                                ======    ======    ======    ====    ====
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
     In Investment Banking, we provide our clients with quality advice and
execution as part of our effort to develop and maintain long-term relationships
as their lead investment bank.
 
ORGANIZATION
 
     We have continuously adapted our organizational structure to meet changing
market dynamics and our clients' needs. Our current structure, which is
organized along regional, execution and industry groups, seeks to combine
client-focused investment bankers with execution and industry expertise. Because
our businesses are global, we have adapted our organization to meet the demands
of our clients in each geographic region. Through our commitment to teamwork, we
believe that we provide services in an integrated fashion for the benefit of our
clients.
 
     We believe an important competitive advantage in our marketing effort is
Investment Banking Services, a core group of professionals who focus on
developing and maintaining strong client relationships. These bankers, who are
organized regionally and/or by industry group, work with senior executives of
our clients to identify areas where Goldman Sachs can provide capital-raising,
financial advisory or other products and services. The broad base of experience
and knowledge of our Investment Banking Services professionals enables them to
analyze our clients' objectives efficiently and to bring to bear the appropriate
resources of Goldman Sachs to satisfy those objectives.
 
     Our Corporate Finance, Debt and Equity Capital Markets, Leveraged Finance
and Mergers and Acquisitions groups bring product expertise and innovation to
clients in a variety of industries. These groups are responsible for the
execution of specific client transactions as well as the building of strong
client relationships.
 
     In an effort to serve our clients' needs in targeted industries, we have
established several industry focus groups. These include: Chemicals;
Communications, Media and Entertainment; Energy and Power; Financial
Institutions; Healthcare; High Technology; Hotels and Gaming; Real Estate;
Retailing; and Transportation. Drawing on specialized knowledge of
industry-specific trends, these groups provide the full range of investment
banking products and services to our clients.
 
     Reflecting our commitment to innovation, Investment Banking has established
a New Products group whose professionals focus on creating new financial
products. These professionals have particular expertise in integrating finance
with accounting, tax and securities laws and work closely with other investment
banking teams to provide innovative solutions to difficult client problems. Our
structuring expertise has proven to be particularly valuable in addressing
client needs in areas such as complex cross-border mergers
 
                                       70
<PAGE>   71
 
and acquisitions and convertible and other hybrid equity financings.
 
FINANCIAL ADVISORY
 
     Financial advisory includes a broad range of advisory assignments with
respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense activities,
restructurings and spin-offs. Goldman Sachs is a leading investment bank in
worldwide mergers and acquisitions. During calendar 1998, we advised on 340
mergers and acquisitions transactions with a combined value of $957 billion.
 
     Our mergers and acquisitions capabilities are evidenced by our significant
share of assignments in large, complex transactions where we provide multiple
services, including "one-stop" acquisition financing, currency hedging and
cross-border structuring expertise. Goldman Sachs advised on seven of the ten
largest mergers and acquisitions transactions through December 31, 1998. We have
also been successful in Europe, including in intra-country transactions, and we
are a leading mergers and acquisitions advisor in France, Germany and Spain.
 
     The following table illustrates our leadership in the mergers and
acquisitions advisory market for the indicated period taken as a whole:
 
              GOLDMAN SACHS' MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS MARKET DATA
            For the period January 1, 1994 through December 31, 1998
                                ($ in billions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               MARKET               NUMBER OF
                     CATEGORY                       RANK(1)    SHARE     VOLUME    TRANSACTIONS
                     --------                       -------    ------    ------    ------------
<S>                                                 <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>
Worldwide.........................................   1          25.3%    $1,715       1,334
Worldwide, transactions over $500 million.........   1          34.8      1,593         470
Worldwide, transactions over $1 billion...........   1          38.4      1,470         297
United States.....................................   1          32.8      1,316         907
United States, transactions over $500 million.....   1          41.3      1,228         339
United States, transactions over $1 billion.......   1          44.3      1,142         221
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Rank in any one year during the period presented may vary from the rank for
    the period taken as a whole.
 
                            ------------------------
 
     Mergers and acquisitions is an example of how one activity can generate
cross-selling opportunities for other areas of Goldman Sachs. For example, a
client we are advising in a purchase transaction may seek our assistance in
obtaining financing and in hedging interest rate or foreign currency risks
associated with the acquisition. In the case of dispositions, owners and senior
executives of the acquired company often will seek asset management services. In
these cases, our high net worth relationship managers provide comprehensive
advice on investment alternatives and execute the client's desired strategy.
 
UNDERWRITING
 
     From January 1, 1994 through March 31, 1999, Goldman Sachs has served as
lead manager in transactions that have raised more than $1 trillion of capital
for clients worldwide. We underwrite a wide range of securities and other
instruments, including common and preferred stock, convertible securities,
investment grade debt, high-yield debt, sovereign and emerging markets debt,
municipal debt, bank loans, asset-backed securities and real estate-related
securities, such as mortgage-backed securities and the securities of real estate
investment trusts.
 
                                       71
<PAGE>   72
 
     EQUITY UNDERWRITING.  Equity underwriting has been a long-term core
strength of Goldman Sachs. The following table illustrates our leadership
position in equity underwriting for the indicated period taken as a whole:
 
                 GOLDMAN SACHS' EQUITY UNDERWRITING MARKET DATA
            For the period January 1, 1994 through December 31, 1998
                                ($ in billions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               TOTAL
                                                                     MARKET   PROCEEDS   NUMBER OF
                        CATEGORY                           RANK(1)   SHARE     RAISED    ISSUES(2)
                        --------                           -------   ------   --------   ---------
<S>                                                        <C>       <C>      <C>        <C>
Worldwide initial public offerings.......................   1         15.2%     $ 44        300
Worldwide initial public offerings, proceeds over $500
  million................................................   1         23.3        25         59
Worldwide public common stock offerings..................   1         14.4       101        634

U.S. initial public offerings............................   1         15.3        31        179
U.S. initial public offerings, proceeds over $500
  million................................................   1         30.1        16         29
U.S. public common stock offerings.......................   2         14.3        71        381
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Rank in any one year during the period presented may vary from the rank for
    the period taken as a whole.
(2) The number of issues reflects the number of tranches; an offering by a
    single issuer could have multiple tranches.
                            ------------------------
 
     As with mergers and acquisitions, we have been particularly successful in
winning mandates for large, complex equity underwritings. As evidenced in the
chart above, our market share of initial public offerings with total proceeds
over $500 million is substantially higher than our market share of all initial
public offerings. We believe our leadership in large initial public offerings
reflects our expertise in complex transactions, research strengths, track record
and distribution capabilities. In the international arena, we have also acted as
lead manager on many of the largest initial public offerings. We were named the
Asian Equity House of the Year by International Financing Review in 1998.
 
     We believe that a key factor in our equity underwriting success is the
close working relationship between the investment bankers, research analysts and
sales force as coordinated by our Equity Capital Markets group. Goldman Sachs'
equities sales force is one of the most experienced and effective sales
organizations in the industry. With 350 institutional sales professionals and
420 high net worth relationship managers located in every major market around
the world, Goldman Sachs has relationships with a large and diverse group of
investors.
 
     Global Investment Research is critical to our ability to succeed in the
equity underwriting business. We believe that high quality equity research is a
significant competitive advantage in the market for new equity issues. In this
regard, Goldman Sachs' research has been consistently ranked among the
industry's global leaders. See "-- Global Investment Research" for detailed
information regarding our Global Investment Research Department.
 
     DEBT UNDERWRITING.  We engage in the underwriting and origination of
various types of debt instruments that we broadly categorize as follows:
investment grade debt for corporations, governments, municipalities and
agencies; leveraged finance, which includes high-yield debt and bank loans for
non-investment grade issuers; emerging market debt, which includes corporate and
sovereign issues; and asset-backed securities. We have employed a focused
approach in debt underwriting, emphasizing high value-added areas in servicing
our clients.
 
     We believe that the leveraged finance market is a key growth opportunity
for our debt underwriting business. Over the last three years, we have more than
doubled the number of debt underwriting professionals dedicated to this area.
 
                                       72
<PAGE>   73

     The table below sets forth our rank, market position, our total proceeds
raised and the number of debt transactions in which we have acted as underwriter
in the following areas for the indicated period taken as a whole:
 
                  GOLDMAN SACHS' DEBT UNDERWRITING MARKET DATA
            For the period January 1, 1994 through December 31, 1998
                                ($ in billions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           TOTAL
                                                                MARKET    PROCEEDS    NUMBER OF
                    CATEGORY(1)                      RANK(5)    SHARE      RAISED     ISSUES(6)
                    -----------                      -------    ------    --------    ---------
<S>                                                  <C>        <C>       <C>         <C>
Worldwide debt(2)..................................     3         8.4%      $695        4,684
Worldwide straight debt(3).........................     3         8.9        559        4,165

U.S. investment grade straight debt(3).............     3        12.0        419        3,590
U.S. investment grade industrial straight
  debt(3)..........................................     1        19.5         81          517
U.S. high-yield debt(4)............................     5         8.0         33          184
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) All categories include publicly registered and Rule 144A issues.
(2) Includes non-convertible preferred stock, mortgage-backed securities,
    asset-backed securities and taxable municipal debt.
(3) "Straight debt" excludes non-convertible preferred stock, mortgage-backed
    securities, asset-backed securities and municipal debt.
(4) Excludes issues with both investment grade and non-investment grade ratings,
    often referred to as "split-rated issues".
(5) Rank in any one year during the period presented may vary from the rank for
    the period taken as a whole.
(6) The number of issues reflects the number of tranches; an offering by a
    single issuer could have multiple tranches.
 
                            ------------------------
 
                       TRADING AND PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS
 
     Our Trading and Principal Investments business facilitates customer
transactions and takes proprietary positions through market-making in and
trading of fixed income and equity products, currencies, commodities, and swaps
and other derivatives. In order to meet the needs of our clients, our Trading
and Principal Investments business is diversified across a wide range of
products. For example, we make markets in traditional investment grade debt
securities, structure complex derivatives and securitize mortgages and insurance
risk. A fundamental tenet of our approach is that we believe our willingness and
ability to take risk distinguishes us and substantially enhances our client
relationships. Our Trading and Principal Investments business includes the
following:
 
- - FIXED INCOME, CURRENCY AND COMMODITIES. Goldman Sachs makes markets in and
  trades fixed income products, currencies and commodities, structures and
  enters into a wide variety of derivative transactions and engages in
  proprietary trading and arbitrage activities;
 
- - EQUITIES.  Goldman Sachs makes markets in and trades equities and
  equity-related products, structures and enters into equity derivative
  transactions and engages in proprietary trading and equity arbitrage; and
 
- - PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS.  Principal investments primarily represents Goldman
  Sachs' net revenues from its investments in its merchant banking funds.
 
                                       73
<PAGE>   74
 
     The following table sets forth the net revenues of our Trading and
Principal Investments business:
 
                 TRADING AND PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS NET REVENUES
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 THREE
                                                              MONTHS ENDED
                                YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER             FEBRUARY
                             --------------------------     ----------------
                              1996      1997      1998       1998      1999
                              ----      ----      ----       ----      ----
<S>                          <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>
FICC.......................  $1,749    $2,055    $1,438     $  741    $  876
Equities...................     730       573       795        365       455
Principal investments......     214       298       146         76        26
                             ------    ------    ------     ------    ------
Total Trading and Principal
  Investments..............  $2,693    $2,926    $2,379     $1,182    $1,357
                             ======    ======    ======     ======    ======
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
FIXED INCOME, CURRENCY AND COMMODITIES
 
     FICC is a large and diversified operation through which we engage in a
variety of customer-driven market-making and proprietary trading and arbitrage
activities. FICC's principal products are:
 
- - Bank loans
- - Commodities
- - Currencies
- - Derivatives
- - Emerging market debt
- - Global government securities
- - High-yield securities
- - Investment grade corporate securities
- - Money market instruments
- - Mortgage securities and loans
- - Municipal securities
 
     We generate trading net revenues from our customer-driven business in three
ways. First, in large, highly liquid markets we undertake a high volume of
transactions for modest spreads. Second, by capitalizing on our strong market
relationships and capital position, we also undertake transactions in less
liquid markets where spreads are generally larger. Finally, we generate net
revenues from structuring and executing transactions that address complex client
needs.
 
     In our proprietary activities, we assume a variety of risks and devote
substantial resources to identify, analyze and benefit from these exposures. We
leverage our strong research capabilities and capitalize on our proprietary
analytical models to analyze information and make informed trading judgments. We
seek to benefit from perceived disparities in the value of assets in the trading
markets and from macroeconomic and company-specific trends.
 
     FICC has established itself as a leading market participant by using a
three-part approach to deliver high quality service to its clients. First, we
offer broad market-making, research and market knowledge to our clients on a
global basis. Second, we create innovative solutions to complex client problems
by drawing upon our structuring and trading expertise. Third, we use our
expertise to take positions in markets when we believe the return is at least
commensurate with the risk.
 
     A core activity in FICC is market-making in a broad array of securities and
products. For example, we are a primary dealer in many of the largest government
bond markets around the world, including the United States, Japan, the United
Kingdom and Canada; we are a member of the major futures exchanges; and we have
interbank dealer status in the currency markets in New York, London, Tokyo and
Hong Kong. Our willingness to make markets in a broad range of fixed income,
currency and commodity products and their derivatives is crucial both to our
client relationships and to support our underwriting business by providing
secondary market liquidity. Our clients value counterparties that are active in
the marketplace and are willing to provide liquidity and research-based points
of view. In addition, we believe that our significant investment in research
capabilities
 
                                       74
<PAGE>   75
 
and proprietary analytical models are critical to our ability to provide advice
to our clients. Our research capabilities include quantitative and qualitative
analyses of global economic, currency and financial market trends, as well as
credit analyses of corporate and sovereign fixed income securities.
 
     Our clients often confront complex problems that require creative
approaches. We assist our clients who seek to hedge or reallocate their risks
and profit from expected price movements. To do this we bring to bear the
ability of our experienced professionals to understand the needs of our clients
and our ability to manage the risks associated with complex solutions to
problems. In recognition of our ability to meet these client needs, we were
ranked by Institutional Investor in February 1999 as the number two derivatives
dealer for the second straight year. In addition, we were named by Euroweek in
January 1999 as the "Best provider of swaps and other derivatives".
 
EQUITIES
 
     Goldman Sachs engages in a variety of market-making, proprietary trading
and arbitrage activities in equity securities and equity-related products (such
as convertible securities and equity derivative instruments) on a global basis.
Goldman Sachs makes markets and positions blocks of stock to facilitate
customers' transactions and to provide liquidity in the marketplace. Goldman
Sachs is a member of most of the major stock exchanges, including New York,
London, Frankfurt, Tokyo and Hong Kong.
 
     As agent, we execute brokerage transactions in equity securities for
institutional and individual customers that generate commission revenues.
Commissions earned on agency transactions are recorded in Asset Management and
Securities Services.
 
     In equity trading, as in FICC, we generate net revenues from our
customer-driven business in three ways. First, in large, highly liquid principal
markets, such as the over-the-counter market for equity securities, we undertake
a high volume of transactions for modest spreads. In the Nasdaq National Market,
we were the second largest market maker, by aggregate volume, among the top 100
most actively traded stocks in calendar 1998. Second, by capitalizing on our
strong market relationships and capital position, we also undertake large
transactions, such as block trades and positions in securities, in which we
benefit from spreads that are generally larger. Finally, we also benefit from
structuring complex transactions.
 
     Goldman Sachs was a pioneer and is a leader in the execution of large block
trades (trades of 50,000 or more shares) in the United States and abroad. In
calendar 1998, we executed over 50 block trades of at least $100 million each.
We have been able to capitalize on our expertise in block trading, our global
distribution network and our willingness to commit capital to effect
increasingly large and complex customer transactions. We expect corporate
consolidation and restructuring and increased demand for certainty and speed of
execution by sellers and issuers of securities to increase both the frequency
and size of sales of large blocks of equity securities. We believe that we are
well positioned to benefit from this trend. Block transactions, however, expose
us to increased risks, including those arising from holding large and
concentrated positions and decreasing spreads. See "Risk Factors -- Market
Fluctuations Could Adversely Affect Our Businesses in Many Ways -- Holding Large
and Concentrated Positions May Expose Us to Large Losses" for a discussion of
the risks associated with holding a large position in a single issuer and "Risk
Factors -- The Financial Services Industry Is Intensely Competitive and Rapidly
Consolidating" for a discussion of the competitive risks that we face.
 
     We are active in the listed options and futures markets, and we structure,
distribute and execute over-the-counter derivatives on market indices, industry
groups and individual company stocks to facilitate customer transactions and our
proprietary activities. We develop quantitative strategies and render advice
with respect to portfolio hedging and restructuring and asset allocation
transactions. We also create specially tailored instruments to enable
sophisticated investors to undertake hedging strategies and establish or

                                       75
<PAGE>   76
 
liquidate investment positions. We are one of the leading participants in the
trading and development of equity derivative instruments. We are an active
participant in the trading of futures and options on most of the major exchanges
in the United States, Europe and Asia.
 
     Equity arbitrage has long been an important part of our equity franchise.
Our strategy is based on making investments on a global basis through a
diversified portfolio across different markets and event categories. This
business focuses on event-oriented special situations where we are not acting as
an advisor and on relative value trades. These special situations include
mergers and acquisitions, corporate restructurings, recapitalizations and legal
and regulatory events. Equity arbitrage leverages our global infrastructure and
network of research analysts to analyze carefully a broad range of trading and
investment strategies across a wide variety of markets. Investment decisions are
the product of rigorous fundamental, situational and, frequently, regulatory and
legal analysis. Although market conditions led us to decrease the number and
size of positions maintained by our equity arbitrage business during 1998, we
believe that over time, as opportunities present themselves, our equity
arbitrage business will likely increase its activity.
 
TRADING RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     We believe that our trading and market-making capabilities are key
ingredients to our success. While these businesses have generally earned
attractive returns, we have in the past incurred significant trading losses in
periods of market turbulence, such as in 1994 and 1998. Our trading risk
management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from trading positions
with our exposure to potential losses. Risk management includes input from all
levels of Goldman Sachs, from the trading desks to the Firmwide Risk Committee.
See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Risk Management" for a further discussion of our risk management
policies and procedures.
 
     1998 EXPERIENCE.  From mid-August to mid-October 1998, the Russian economic
crisis, the turmoil in Asian and Latin American emerging markets and the
resulting move to higher quality fixed income securities by many investors led
to substantial declines in global financial markets. Investors broadly sold
credit-sensitive products, such as corporate and high-yield debt, and bought
higher-rated instruments, such as U.S. Treasury securities, which caused credit
spreads to widen dramatically. This market turmoil also caused a widespread
decline in global equity markets.
 
     As a major dealer in fixed income securities, we maintain substantial
inventories of corporate and high-yield debt. We regularly seek to hedge the
interest rate risk on these positions through, among other strategies, short
positions in U.S. Treasury securities. In the second half of 1998, we suffered
losses from both the decline in the prices of corporate and high-yield debt
instruments that we owned and the increase in the prices of the U.S. Treasury
securities in which we had short positions.
 
     These market shocks also led to trading losses in our fixed income relative
value trading positions. Relative value trading positions are intended to profit
from a perceived temporary dislocation in the relationship between the values of
different financial instruments. From mid-August to mid-October 1998, the
components of these relative value positions moved in directions that we did not
anticipate and the volatilities of certain positions increased to three times
prior levels. When we and other market participants with similar positions
simultaneously sought to reduce positions and exposures, this caused a
substantial reduction in market liquidity and a continuing decline in prices.
 
     In the second half of 1998, we also experienced losses in equity arbitrage
and in the value of a number of merchant banking investments.
 
     RISK REDUCTION.  Over the course of this period, we actively reduced our
positions and exposure to severe market disruptions of the type described above.
Our current scenario models estimate our exposure to a substantial widening in
credit spreads and adverse
 
                                       76
<PAGE>   77
 
movements in relative value trades of the type experienced in mid-August to
mid-October 1998. These models indicate that, as of November 1998, our exposure
to a potential reduction in net trading revenues as a result of these events was
over 40% lower than in August 1998. In addition, the daily VaR of substantially
all of our trading positions declined from $47 million as of May 29, 1998 to $43
million as of November 1998. The November 1998 daily VaR reflects the reduction
in positions discussed above, offset by the higher market volatility, changes in
correlation and other market conditions experienced in the second half of 1998.
If the daily VaR as of November 1998 had been determined using the volatility
and correlation data as of May 29, 1998, the daily VaR would have been $31
million. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations -- Risk Management" for a discussion of VaR and its
limitations.
 
     As part of the continuous effort to refine our risk management policies and
procedures, we have recently made a number of adjustments to the way that we
evaluate risk and set risk limits. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Risk Management -- Market Risk"
for a further discussion of our policies and procedures for evaluating market
risk and setting related limits.
 
     Notwithstanding these actions, we continue to hold trading positions that
are substantial in both number and size, and are subject to significant market
risk. In addition, management may choose to increase our risk levels in the
future. See "Risk Factors -- Market Fluctuations Could Adversely Affect Our
Businesses in Many Ways" and "-- Our Risk Management Policies and Procedures May
Leave Us Exposed to Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk" for a discussion of the
risks associated with our trading positions.
 
PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS
 
     In connection with our merchant banking activities, we invest with our
clients by making principal investments in funds that we raise and manage. As of
November 1998, we had committed $2.8 billion, of which $1.7 billion had been
funded, of the $15.5 billion total equity capital committed for our merchant
banking funds. The funds' investments generate capital appreciation or
depreciation and, upon disposition, realized gains or losses. See "-- Asset
Management and Securities Services -- Merchant Banking" for a discussion of our
merchant banking funds. As of November 1998, our aggregate carrying value of
principal investments held directly or through our merchant banking funds was
approximately $1.4 billion, which was comprised of corporate principal
investments with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $609 million and
real estate investments with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $753
million.
 
                    ASSET MANAGEMENT AND SECURITIES SERVICES
 
     Asset Management and Securities Services is comprised of the following:
 
- - ASSET MANAGEMENT.  Asset management generates management fees by providing
  investment advisory services to a diverse and rapidly growing client base of
  institutions and individuals;
 
- - SECURITIES SERVICES.  Securities services includes prime brokerage, financing
  services and securities lending and our matched book businesses, all of which
  generate revenue primarily in the form of fees or interest rate spreads; and
 
- - COMMISSIONS.  Commission-based businesses include agency transactions for
  clients on major stock and futures exchanges. Revenues from the increased
  share of income and gains derived from our merchant banking funds are also
  included in commissions.
 
                                       77
<PAGE>   78
 
     The following table sets forth the net revenues of our Asset Management and
Securities Services business:
 
             ASSET MANAGEMENT AND SECURITIES SERVICES NET REVENUES
                                 (in millions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              THREE MONTHS
                                                                 ENDED
                                   YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER          FEBRUARY
                                --------------------------    ------------
                                 1996      1997      1998     1998    1999
                                 ----      ----      ----     ----    ----
<S>                             <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>     <C>
Asset management..............  $  242    $  458    $  675    $139    $202
Securities services...........     354       487       730     170     207
Commissions...................     727       989     1,368     348     327
                                ------    ------    ------    ----    ----
Total Asset Management and
  Securities Services.........  $1,323    $1,934    $2,773    $657    $736
                                ======    ======    ======    ====    ====
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
ASSET MANAGEMENT
 
     Goldman Sachs is seeking to build a premier global asset management
business. We offer a broad array of investment strategies and advice across all
major asset classes: global equity; fixed income, including money markets;
currency; and alternative investment products (i.e., investment vehicles with
non-traditional investment objectives and/or strategies). Assets under
supervision are comprised of assets under management and other client assets.
Assets under management typically generate fees based on a percentage of their
value and include our mutual funds, separate accounts managed for institutional
and individual investors, our merchant banking funds and other alternative
investment funds. Other client assets are comprised of assets in brokerage
accounts of primarily high net worth individuals, on which we earn commissions.
 
     Over the last five years, we have rapidly grown our assets under
supervision, as set forth in the graph below:
 
                            ASSETS UNDER SUPERVISION
                                 (in billions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   TOTAL                          ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT              OTHER CLIENT ASSETS
                                   -----                          -----------------------              -------------------
<S>                                                           <C>                                <C>
'1994'                              $ 93                                     44                                 49
'1995'                              $110                                     52                                 58
'1996'                              $171                                     94                                 77
'1997'                              $238                                    136                                102
'1998'                              $337                                    195                                142
'February 1999'                     $370                                    207                                163
</TABLE>
 
                                       78
<PAGE>   79
 
     As of February 1999, equities and alternative investments represented 51%
of our total assets under management. Since 1996, these two asset classes have
been the primary drivers of our growth in assets under management.
 
     The following table sets forth the amount of assets under management by
asset class:
 
                     ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT BY ASSET CLASS
                                 (in billions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      AS OF
                                        AS OF NOVEMBER               FEBRUARY
                             ------------------------------------    --------
                             1994    1995    1996    1997    1998      1999
                             ----    ----    ----    ----    ----      ----
<S>                          <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>
ASSET CLASS
Equity.....................  $ 6     $ 9     $34     $ 52    $ 69      $ 73
Fixed income and currency..   17      19      26       36      50        53
Money markets..............   18      20      27       31      46        48
Alternative
  investment(1)............    3       4       8       17      30        32
                             ---     ---     ---     ----    ----      ----
Total......................  $44     $52     $95     $136    $195      $206
                             ===     ===     ===     ====    ====      ====
</TABLE>
 
        -----------------------
        (1) Includes private equity, real estate, quantitative asset allocation
            and other funds that we manage.
 
                            ------------------------
 
     Since the beginning of 1996, we have increased the resources devoted to our
asset management business, including adding over 850 employees. In addition,
over the past three years, Goldman Sachs has made three asset management
acquisitions in order to expand its geographic reach and broaden its global
equity and alternative investment portfolio management capabilities.
 
     Our global reach has been important in growing assets under management.
From November 1996 to February 1999, our assets under management, excluding our
merchant banking funds, sourced from outside the United States grew by over $35
billion. As of February 1999, we managed approximately $46 billion sourced from
Europe.
 
     In Japan, deregulation, high individual savings rates and low local rates
of return have been important drivers of growth for our asset management
business during the 1990s. Over the last three years, we have built a
significant asset management business in Japan, and, as of February 1999, we
managed $23 billion of assets sourced from Japan. In Japan, as of the end of
February 1999, we were the largest non-Japanese investment trust manager,
according to The Investment Trusts Association, and we managed four of the top
15 open-ended mutual funds ranked by mutual fund assets, according to IFIS Inc.
We believe that substantial opportunities exist to grow our asset management
business in Japan, by increasing our institutional client base and expanding the
third-party distribution network through which we offer our mutual funds.
 
     CLIENTS.  Our primary clients are institutions, high net worth individuals
and retail investors. We access clients through both direct and third-party
channels.
 
                                       79
<PAGE>   80
 
     The table below sets forth the amount of assets under supervision by
distribution channel and client category as of November 1998:
 
                ASSETS UNDER SUPERVISION BY DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL
                                 (in billions)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   ASSETS UNDER
                                  SUPERVISION(1)      PRIMARY INVESTMENT VEHICLES
                                  --------------      ---------------------------
<S>                               <C>                <C>
- - Directly distributed
  -- Institutional..............      $  121         Separate managed accounts
                                                     Commingled vehicles
 
  -- High net worth
     individuals................         156         Brokerage accounts
                                                     Limited partnerships
                                                     Separate managed accounts
- - Third-party distributed
  -- Institutional and retail...          48         Mutual funds
                                      ------
Total...........................      $  325
                                      ======
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
    (1) Excludes $12 billion in our merchant banking funds.
                            ------------------------
 
     Our institutional clients include corporations, insurance companies,
pension funds, foundations and endowments. We managed assets for three of the
five largest pension pools in the United States as ranked as of September 30,
1998 by Pensions & Investments, and we have 18 clients for whom we manage at
least $1 billion each.
 
     In the individual high net worth area, we have established approximately
10,000 high net worth accounts worldwide, including accounts with 41% of the
1998 "Forbes 400 List of the Richest Americans". We believe this is a high
growth opportunity because this market (defined as the market for individual
investors with a net worth in excess of $5 million) is highly fragmented and
growing rapidly and accounts for approximately $10 trillion of investable assets
according to a study by McKinsey & Co. At the center of our effort is a team of
over 420 relationship managers, located in 12 U.S. and six international
offices. These professionals have an average of over seven years of experience
at Goldman Sachs and have exhibited low turnover and superior productivity
relative to the industry average.
 
     In the third-party distribution channel, we distribute our mutual funds on
a worldwide basis through banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies and other
financial intermediaries. As of December 31, 1998, we were the third largest
manager in the U.S. institutional money market sector according to information
compiled by Strategic Insight. In Japan, we also utilize a third-party
distribution network consisting principally of the largest Japanese brokerage
firms.
 
MERCHANT BANKING
 
     Goldman Sachs has an established successful record in the corporate and
real estate merchant banking business, having raised $15.5 billion of committed
capital for 15 private investment funds, as of November 1998, of which $9.0
billion had been funded. We have committed $2.8 billion and funded $1.7 billion
of these amounts; our clients, including pension plans, endowments, charitable
institutions and high net worth individuals, have provided the remainder. Some
of these investment funds pursue, on a global basis, long-term investments in
equity and debt securities in privately negotiated transactions, leveraged
buyouts and acquisitions. As of November 1998, these funds had total committed
capital of $7.7 billion, which includes two funds with $1.0 billion of committed
 
                                       80
<PAGE>   81
 
capital that are in the process of being wound down. Other funds, with total
committed capital of $7.8 billion as of November 1998, invest in real estate
operating companies and debt and equity interests in real estate assets.
 
     Our strategy with respect to each merchant banking fund is to invest
opportunistically to build a portfolio of investments that is diversified by
industry, product type, geographic region and transaction structure and type.
Our merchant banking funds leverage our long-standing relationships with
companies, investors, entrepreneurs and financial intermediaries around the
world to source potential investment opportunities. In addition, our merchant
banking funds and their portfolio companies have generated business for other
areas of Goldman Sachs, including equity underwriting, leveraged and other
financing fees and merger advisory fees.
 
     Located in eight offices around the world, our investment professionals
identify, manage and sell investments on behalf of our merchant banking funds.
Goldman Sachs has two subsidiaries that manage real estate assets, The Archon
Group, L.P. and Archon Group (France) S.C.A. In addition, our merchant banking
professionals work closely with other departments and benefit from the expertise
of specialists in debt and equity research, investment banking, leveraged and
mortgage finance and equity capital markets.
 
     Merchant banking activities generate three revenue streams. First, we
receive a management fee that is generally a percentage of a fund's committed
capital, invested capital, total gross acquisition cost or asset value. These
annual management fees, which are included in our asset management revenues,
have historically been a recurring source of revenue. Second, we receive from
each fund, after that fund has achieved a minimum return for fund investors, an
increased share of the fund's income and gains that is a percentage, typically
20%, of the capital appreciation and gains from the fund's investments. Revenues
from the increased share of the funds' income and gains are included in
commissions. Third, Goldman Sachs, as a substantial investor in these funds, is
allocated its proportionate share of the funds' unrealized appreciation or
depreciation arising from changes in fair value as well as gains and losses upon
realization. These items are included in Trading and Principal Investments.
 
SECURITIES SERVICES
 
     Securities services consists predominantly of Global Securities Services,
which provides prime brokerage, financing services and securities lending to a
diversified U.S. and international customer base, including hedge funds, pension
funds and high net worth individuals. Securities services also includes our
matched book businesses.
 
     We offer prime brokerage services to our clients, allowing them the
flexibility to trade with most brokers while maintaining a single source for
financing and portfolio reports. Our prime brokerage activities provide
multi-product clearing and custody in 50 markets, consolidated multi-currency
accounting and reporting and offshore fund administration and servicing for our
most active clients. Additionally, we provide financing to our clients through
margin loans collateralized by securities held in the client's account. In
recent years, we have significantly increased our prime brokerage client base.
 
     Securities lending activities principally involve the borrowing and lending
of equity securities to cover customer and Goldman Sachs' short sales and to
finance Goldman Sachs' long positions. In addition, we are an active participant
in the securities lending broker-to-broker business and the third-party agency
lending business. Trading desks in New York, Boston, London, Tokyo and Hong Kong
provide 24-hour coverage in equity markets worldwide. We believe the rapidly
developing international stock lending market presents a significant growth
opportunity for us.
 
     Lenders of securities include pension plan sponsors, mutual funds,
insurance companies, investment advisors, endowments, bank trust departments and
individuals. We have entered into exclusive relationships with certain lenders
that have given us access to large pools of securities, some of which are often
hard to locate in the general lender
 
                                       81
<PAGE>   82
 
market, providing us with a competitive advantage. We believe that a significant
cause of the growth in short sales, which require the borrowing of securities,
has been the rapid increase in complex trading strategies, such as index
arbitrage, convertible bond and warrant arbitrage, option strategies, and sector
and market neutral strategies where shares are sold short to hedge exposure from
derivative instruments.
 
COMMISSIONS
 
     Goldman Sachs generates commissions by executing agency transactions on
major stock and futures exchanges worldwide. We effect agency transactions for
clients located throughout the world. In recent years, aggregate commissions
have increased as a result of growth in transaction volume on the major
exchanges. As discussed above, commissions also include the increased share of
income and gains from merchant banking funds as well as commissions earned from
brokerage transactions for high net worth individuals. For a discussion
regarding our increased share of the income and gains from our merchant banking
funds, see "-- Merchant Banking" above, and for a discussion regarding high net
worth individuals, see "-- Asset Management -- Clients" above.
 
     In anticipation of continued growth in electronic connectivity and online
trading, Goldman Sachs has made strategic investments in alternative trading
systems to gain experience and participate in the development of this market.
See "Risk Factors -- The Financial Services Industry Is Intensely Competitive
and Rapidly Consolidating -- Our Revenues May Decline Due to Competition from
Alternative Trading Systems" for a discussion of the competitive risks posed by
alternative trading systems generally.
 
                           GLOBAL INVESTMENT RESEARCH
 
     Our Global Investment Research Department provides fundamental research on
economies, debt and equity markets, commodities markets, industries and
companies on a worldwide basis. For over two decades, we have committed the
resources on a global scale to develop an industry-leading position for our
investment research products. We believe that investment research is a
significant factor in our strong competitive position in debt and equity
underwritings and in our generation of commission revenues.
 
     Major investors worldwide recognize Goldman Sachs for its value-added
research products, which are highly rated in client polls across the Americas,
Europe and Asia. Our Research Department is the only one to rank in the top
three in each of the last 15 calendar years in Institutional Investor's "All-
America Research Team" survey. In December 1998, the Research Department also
achieved top honors for global investment research from Institutional Investor.
In Europe, based on the Institutional Investor "1999 All-Europe Research Team"
survey, the Research Department ranked number one for coverage of pan-European
sectors and number three in European Strategy and Economics.
 
     Global Investment Research employs a team approach that provides equity
research coverage of approximately 2,300 companies worldwide, 53 economies and
26 stock markets. This is accomplished through four groups:
 
- - the Economic Research group, which formulates macroeconomic forecasts for
  economic activity, foreign exchange, and interest rates based on the globally
  coordinated views of its regional economists;
 
- - the Portfolio Strategy group, which forecasts equity market returns and
  provides recommendations on both asset allocation and industry representation;
 
- - the Company/Industry group, which provides fundamental analysis, forecasts and
  investment recommendations for companies and industries worldwide. Equity
  research analysts are organized regionally by sector and globally into more
  than 20 industry teams, which allows for extensive collaboration and knowledge
  sharing on important investment themes; and
 
- - the Commodities Research group, which provides research on the global
  commodity markets.
 
                                       82
<PAGE>   83
 
                               INTERNET STRATEGY
 
     We believe that Internet technology and electronic commerce will, over
time, change the ways that securities are traded and distributed, creating both
opportunities and challenges for our businesses. In response, we have a program
of internal development and external investment.
 
     Internally, we are extending our global electronic trading and information
distribution capabilities to our clients via the Internet. These capabilities
cover many of our fixed income, equities and mutual fund products in markets
around the world. We are also using the Internet to improve the ease and quality
of communication with our institutional and high net worth clients. For example,
investors have on-line access to our investment research, mutual fund data and
valuation models and our high net worth clients are increasingly accessing their
portfolio information over the Internet. We have also recently established
GS-Online(SM), which, in conjunction with Goldman, Sachs & Co., will act as an
underwriter of securities offerings via the Internet and other electronic means.
GS-Online(SM) will deal initially only with other underwriters and syndicate
members and not with members of the public.
 
     Externally, we have invested in electronic commerce concerns such as Bridge
Information Systems, Inc., TradeWeb LLC, Archipelago, L.L.C., The BRASS Utility,
L.L.C., OptiMark Technologies, Inc. and, most recently, Wit Capital Group, Inc.
Through these investments, we gain an increased understanding of business
developments and opportunities in this emerging sector. For a discussion of how
Goldman Sachs could be adversely affected by these developments, see "Risk
Factors -- The Financial Services Industry Is Intensely Competitive and Rapidly
Consolidating -- Our Revenues May Decline Due to Competition from Alternative
Trading Systems".
 
                             INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
 
     Technology is fundamental to our overall business strategy. Goldman Sachs
is committed to the ongoing development, maintenance and use of technology
throughout the organization, with expenditures, including employee costs, of
approximately $970 million in 1998 and a budget of $1.2 billion in 1999. We have
developed significant software and systems over the past several years. Our
technology initiatives can be broadly categorized into three efforts:
 
- - enhancing client service through increased connectivity and the provision of
  high value-added, tailored services;
 
- - risk management; and
 
- - overall efficiency and control.
 
     We have tailored our services to our clients by providing them with
electronic access to our products and services. For example, we developed the GS
Financial Workbench(SM), an Internet web site that clients and employees can use
to download research reports, access earnings and valuation models, submit
trades, monitor accounts, build and view presentations, calculate derivative
prices and view market data. First made available in early 1995, the GS
Financial Workbench(SM) represents a joint effort among all of our business
areas to create one comprehensive site for clients and employees to access our
products and services.
 
     We have also developed software that enables us to monitor and analyze our
market and credit risks. This risk management software not only analyzes market
risk on firmwide, divisional and trading desk levels, but also breaks down our
risk into its underlying exposures, permitting management to evaluate exposures
on the basis of specific interest rate, currency rate, equity price or commodity
price changes. To assist further in the management of our credit exposures, data
from many sources are aggregated daily into credit management systems that give
senior management and professionals in the Credit and Controllers Departments
the ability to receive timely information with respect to credit exposures
worldwide, including netting information, and the ability to analyze complex
risk situations effectively. Our software accesses these data, allows for quick
analysis at the level of individual trades and interacts with other Goldman
Sachs systems.
 
                                       83
<PAGE>   84
 
     Technology has been a significant factor in improving the overall
efficiency of many areas of Goldman Sachs. By automating many trading
procedures, we have substantially increased our efficiency and accuracy.
 
     We currently have projects under way to ensure that our technology is Year
2000 compliant. See "Risk Factors -- Our Computer Systems and Those of Third
Parties May Not Achieve Year 2000 Readiness -- Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure"
and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Risk Management -- Operational and Year 2000 Risks -- Year 2000
Readiness Disclosure" for a further discussion of the risks we face in achieving
Year 2000 readiness and our progress to date.
 
                                   EMPLOYEES
 
     Management believes that one of the strengths and principal reasons for the
success of Goldman Sachs is the quality and dedication of its people and the
shared sense of being part of a team. Goldman Sachs was ranked number seven in
Fortune magazine's "The 100 Best Companies to Work for in America" in January
1999 and was ranked number three in Fortune magazine's 1999 "The Top 50 MBA
Dream Companies", the highest ranking investment banking and securities firm in
each case. We strive to maintain a work environment that fosters
professionalism, excellence, diversity and cooperation among our employees
worldwide.
 
     Instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all employees is a continuous
process, of which training is an essential part. We recently opened a 34,000
square foot training center in New York City, near our world headquarters. All
employees are offered the opportunity to participate in education and periodic
seminars that we sponsor at various locations throughout the world. We also
sponsor off-site meetings for the various business units that are designed to
promote collaboration among co-workers.
 
     Another important part of instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all
employees is our employee review process. Employees are reviewed by supervisors,
co-workers and employees they supervise in a 360-degree review process that is
integral to our team approach. In 1998, over 140,000 reviews were completed,
evidencing the comprehensive nature of this process.
 
     We also believe that good citizenship is an important part of being a
member of the Goldman Sachs team. To that end, we established our Community
TeamWorks initiative in 1997. As part of Community TeamWorks, all employees are
offered the opportunity to spend a day working at a charitable organization of
their choice while continuing to receive their full salary for that day. In
1998, approximately two-thirds of our employees participated in Community
TeamWorks. The commitment of our partners to the community is also demonstrated
by their having given over $90 million in each of the last two years to
charities, including private foundations.
 
     As of February 1999, we had approximately 13,000 employees. In addition,
The Archon Group, L.P. and Archon Group (France) S.C.A., subsidiaries of Goldman
Sachs that provide real estate services for our real estate investment funds,
had a total of approximately 1,260 employees as of February 1999. Goldman Sachs
is reimbursed for substantially all of the costs of these employees by these
funds.
 
     See "Management -- The Employee Initial Public Offering Awards" for a
discussion of the steps taken by Goldman Sachs to encourage the continued
service of its employees after the offerings and see "Risk Factors -- Our
Conversion to Corporate Form May Adversely Affect Our Ability to Recruit, Retain
and Motivate Key Employees" for a discussion of the factors that may have an
adverse impact on the effectiveness of these efforts.
 
                                  COMPETITION
 
     The financial services industry -- and all of our businesses -- are
intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. Our competitors are
other brokers and dealers, investment banking firms, insurance companies,
investment advisors, mutual funds, hedge funds, commercial banks and merchant
banks. We compete with some of our com-
                                       84
<PAGE>   85
 
petitors globally and with some others on a regional, product or niche basis. We
compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution,
our products and services, innovation, reputation and price.
 
     Competition is also intense for the attraction and retention of qualified
employees. Our ability to continue to compete effectively in our businesses will
depend upon our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our
existing employees. See "-- Employees" for a discussion of our efforts in this
regard.
 
     In recent years there has been substantial consolidation and convergence
among companies in the financial services industry. In particular, a number of
large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial
services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with
other financial institutions. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a
wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage,
asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their
competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking
and securities products with commercial banking, insurance and other financial
services revenues in an effort to gain market share, which could result in
pricing pressure in our businesses.
 
     This trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly increased
the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. This trend has also
hastened the globalization of the securities and other finan-cial services
markets. As a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international
operations and to execute large global transactions.
 
     We believe that some of our most significant challenges and opportunities
will arise outside the United States. See "Industry and Economic Outlook" for a
discussion of these challenges and opportunities. In order to take advantage of
these opportunities, we will have to compete successfully with financial
institutions based in important non-U.S. markets, particularly in Europe. Some
of these institutions are larger, better capitalized and have a stronger local
presence and a longer operating history in these markets.
 
     We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in
recent years. For example, equity and debt underwriting discounts have been
under pressure for a number of years and the ability to execute trades
electronically, through the Internet and other alternative trading systems may
increase the pressure on trading commissions. It appears that this trend toward
alternative trading systems will continue and perhaps accelerate. Similarly,
underwriting spreads in Latin American and other privatizations have been
subject to considerable pressure in the last year. We believe that we may
experience pricing pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of
our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.
 
     See "Risk Factors -- The Financial Services Industry Is Intensely
Competitive and Rapidly Consolidating" for a discussion of the competitive risks
we face in our businesses.
 
                                   REGULATION
 
     Goldman Sachs' business is, and the securities and commodity futures and
options industries generally are, subject to extensive regulation in the United
States and elsewhere. As a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the
United States and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the
integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the
interests of customers participating in those markets, not with protecting the
interests of Goldman Sachs' shareholders or creditors. In the United States, the
SEC is the federal agency responsible for the administration of the federal
securities laws. Goldman, Sachs & Co. is registered as a broker-dealer and as an
investment adviser with the SEC and as a broker-dealer in all 50 states and the
District of Columbia. Self-regulatory organizations, such as the NYSE, adopt
rules and examine broker-dealers, such as Goldman, Sachs & Co. In addition,
state securities and other regulators also have regulatory or oversight
authority over Goldman, Sachs & Co. Similarly, our businesses are also subject
to
                                       85
<PAGE>   86
 
regulation by various non-U.S. governmental and regulatory bodies and
self-regulatory authorities in virtually all countries where we have offices.
 
     Broker-dealers are subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the
securities business, including sales methods, trade practices among
broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital
structure, record-keeping, the financing of customers' purchases and the conduct
of directors, officers and employees. Additional legislation, changes in rules
promulgated by self-regulatory organizations or changes in the interpretation or
enforcement of existing laws and rules, either in the United States or
elsewhere, may directly affect the mode of operation and profitability of
Goldman Sachs.
 
     The U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies and self-regulatory
organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the United States, are
empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure,
fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of
a broker-dealer or its directors, officers or employees. Occasionally, our
subsidiaries have been subject to investigations and proceedings, and sanctions
have been imposed for infractions of various regulations relating to our
activities, none of which has had a material adverse effect on us or our
businesses.
 
     The commodity futures and options industry in the United States is subject
to regulation under the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended. The Commodity
Futures Trading Commission is the federal agency charged with the administration
of the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations thereunder. Goldman, Sachs &
Co. is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a futures
commission merchant, commodity pool operator and commodity trading advisor.
 
     As a registered broker-dealer and member of various self-regulatory
organizations, Goldman, Sachs & Co. is subject to the SEC's uniform net capital
rule, Rule 15c3-1. This rule specifies the minimum level of net capital a
broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that at least a minimum part of
its assets be kept in relatively liquid form. Goldman, Sachs & Co. is also
subject to the net capital requirements of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and various securities and commodity exchanges. See Note 8 to the
audited consolidated financial statements and Note 5 to the unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our net capital.
 
     The SEC and various self-regulatory organizations impose rules that require
notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate
the ratio of subordinated debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition
of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its
business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the SEC's uniform net
capital rule imposes certain requirements that may have the effect of
prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and
requiring prior notice to the SEC for certain withdrawals of capital.
 
     In January 1999, the SEC adopted revisions to its uniform net capital rule
and related regulations that permit the registration of over-the-counter
derivatives dealers as broker-dealers. An over-the-counter derivatives dealer
can, upon adoption of a risk management framework in accordance with the new
rules, utilize a capital requirement based upon proprietary models for
estimating market risk exposures. We have established Goldman Sachs Financial
Markets, L.P. and are in the process of registering this company with the SEC as
an over-the-counter derivatives dealer to conduct in a more capital efficient
manner certain over-the-counter derivative businesses now conducted in other
affiliates.
 
     Goldman Sachs is an active participant in the international fixed income
and equity markets. Many of our affiliates that participate in those markets are
subject to comprehensive regulations that include some form of capital adequacy
rule and other customer protection rules. For example, Goldman Sachs provides
investment services in and from the United Kingdom under a regulatory regime
that is undergoing comprehensive restructuring aimed at implementing the Finan-
                                       86
<PAGE>   87
 
cial Services Authority as the United Kingdom's unified regulator. The relevant
Goldman Sachs entities in London are at present regulated by the Securities and
Futures Authority Limited in respect of their investment banking, individual
asset management, brokerage and principal trading activities, and the Investment
Management Regulatory Organization in respect of their institutional asset
management and fund management activities. Some of these Goldman Sachs entities
are also regulated by the London Stock Exchange and other United Kingdom
securities and commodities exchanges of which they are members. It is expected,
however, that commencing in 2000 the responsibilities of the Securities and
Futures Authority Limited and Investment Management Regulatory Organization will
be taken over by the Financial Services Authority. The investment services that
are subject to oversight by United Kingdom regulators are regulated in
accordance with European Union directives requiring, among other things,
compliance with certain capital adequacy standards, customer protection
requirements and conduct of business rules. These standards, requirements and
rules are similarly implemented, under the same directives, throughout the
European Union and are broadly comparable in scope and purpose to the regulatory
capital and customer protection requirements imposed under the SEC and Commodity
Futures Trading Commission rules. European Union directives also permit local
regulation in each jurisdiction, including those in which we operate, to be more
restrictive than the requirements of such directives and these local
requirements can result in certain competitive disadvantages to Goldman Sachs.
In addition, the Japanese Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervisory
Agency in Japan as well as German, French and Swiss banking authorities, among
others, regulate various of our subsidiaries and also have capital standards and
other requirements comparable to the rules of the SEC.
 
     Compliance with net capital requirements of these and other regulators
could limit those operations of our subsidiaries that require the intensive use
of capital, such as underwriting and trading activities and the financing of
customer account balances, and also could restrict our ability to withdraw
capital from our regulated subsidiaries, which in turn could limit our ability
to repay debt or pay dividends on our common stock.
 
                                 LEGAL MATTERS
 
     We are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and arbitration
proceedings (including those described below) concerning matters arising in
connection with the conduct of our businesses. We believe, based on currently
available information, that the results of such proceedings, in the aggregate,
will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, but might be
material to our operating results for any particular period, depending, in part,
upon the operating results for such period.
 
MOBILEMEDIA SECURITIES LITIGATION
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. has been named as a defendant in a purported class
action lawsuit commenced on December 6, 1996 and pending in the U.S. District
Court for the District of New Jersey. This lawsuit was brought on behalf of
purchasers of common stock of MobileMedia Corporation in an underwritten
offering in 1995 and purchasers of senior subordinated notes of MobileMedia
Communications Inc. in a concurrent underwritten offering. Defendants are
MobileMedia Corporation, certain of its officers and directors, and the lead
underwriters, including Goldman, Sachs & Co. MobileMedia Corporation is
currently reorganizing in bankruptcy.
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. underwrote 2,242,500 shares of common stock, for a
total price of approximately $53 million, and Goldman Sachs International
underwrote 718,750 shares, for a total price of approximately $17 million.
Goldman, Sachs & Co. underwrote approximately $38 million in principal amount of
the senior subordinated notes.
 
     The consolidated class action complaint alleges violations of the
disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws and seeks compensatory
and/or rescissory damages. In light of MobileMedia Corporation's
 
                                       87
<PAGE>   88
 
bankruptcy, the action against it has been stayed. Defendants' motion to dismiss
was denied in October 1998.
 
ANTITRUST MATTERS RELATING TO UNDERWRITINGS
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. is one of numerous financial services companies that
have been named as defendants in certain purported class actions brought in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York by purchasers of
securities in public offerings, who claim that the defendants engaged in
conspiracies in violation of federal antitrust laws in connection with these
offerings. The plaintiffs in each instance seek treble damages as well as
injunctive relief. One of the actions, which was commenced on August 21, 1998,
alleges that the defendants have conspired to discourage or restrict the resale
of securities for a period after the offerings, including by imposing "penalty
bids". Defendants moved to dismiss the complaint in November 1998. The
plaintiffs amended their complaint in February 1999, modifying their claims in
various ways, including limiting the proposed class to retail purchasers of
public offerings. Several other actions were commenced, beginning on
November 3, 1998, that allege that the defendants, many of whom are also named
in the other action discussed above, have conspired to fix at 7% the discount
that underwriting syndicates receive from issuers of shares in certain
offerings.
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. received a Civil Investigative Demand on April 29,
1999 from the U.S. Department of Justice requesting information with respect to
its investigation of an alleged conspiracy among securities underwriters to fix
underwriting fees.
 
ROCKEFELLER CENTER PROPERTIES, INC. LITIGATION
 
     Several former shareholders of Rockefeller Center Properties, Inc. brought
purported class actions in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware
and the Delaware Chancery Court arising from the acquisition of Rockefeller
Center Properties, Inc. by an investor group in July 1996. The defendants in the
actions include, among others, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Whitehall Real Estate
Partnership V, a fund advised by Goldman, Sachs & Co., a Goldman, Sachs & Co.
managing director and other members of the investor group. The federal court
actions, which have since been consolidated, were filed beginning on November
15, 1996, and the state court action was filed on May 29, 1998.
 
     The complaints generally allege that the proxy statement disseminated to
former Rockefeller Center Properties, Inc. stockholders in connection with the
transaction was deficient, in violation of the disclosure requirements of the
federal securities laws. The plaintiffs are seeking, among other things,
unspecified damages, rescission of the acquisition, and/or disgorgement.
 
     In a series of decisions, the federal court has granted summary judgment
dismissing all the claims in the federal action. The plaintiffs have appealed
those rulings.
 
     The state action has been stayed pending disposition of the federal action.
 
REICHHOLD CHEMICALS LITIGATION
 
     Reichhold Chemicals, Inc. and Reichhold Norway ASA brought a claim in March
30, 1998 in the Commercial Court in London against Goldman Sachs International
in relation to the plaintiffs' 1997 purchase of the polymer division of one of
Goldman Sachs International's Norwegian clients, Jotun A/S. The plaintiffs claim
that they overpaid by $40 million based upon misrepresentations concerning the
financial performance of the polymer division.
 
     In November 1998, the Commercial Court granted Goldman Sachs
International's application for a stay of the action pending the outcome of
arbitration proceedings between Reichhold Chemicals, Inc. and Reichhold Norway
ASA, on the one hand, and Jotun A/S in Norway, on the other. The stay order is
currently being reviewed by an appellate court.
 
MATTERS RELATING TO MUNICIPAL SECURITIES
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co., together with a number of other firms active in the
municipal securities area, has received requests begin-
 
                                       88
<PAGE>   89
 
ning in June 1995 for information from the SEC and certain other federal and
state agencies and authorities with respect to the pricing of escrow securities
sold by Goldman, Sachs & Co. to certain municipal bond issuers in connection
with the advanced refunding of municipal securities. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
understands that certain municipal bond issuers to which Goldman, Sachs & Co.
sold escrow securities have also received such inquiries.
 
     There have been published reports that an action under the Federal False
Claims Act was filed in February 1995 alleging unlawful and undisclosed
overcharges in certain advance refunding transactions by a private plaintiff on
behalf of the United States and that Goldman, Sachs & Co., together with a
number of other firms, is a named defendant in that action. The complaint was
reportedly filed under seal while the government determines whether it will
pursue the claims directly.
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co. is also one of many municipal underwriting firms that
have been named as defendants in a purported class action brought on November
24, 1998 in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida by the
Clerk of Collier County, Florida on behalf of municipal issuers which purchased
escrow securities since October 1986 in connection with advance refundings. The
amended complaint alleges that the securities were excessively "marked up" in
violation of the Investment Advisers Act and Florida law, and seeks to recover
the difference between the actual and alleged "fair" prices. The defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint on April 30, 1999.
 
AMF SECURITIES LITIGATION
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and a Goldman, Sachs &
Co. managing director have been named as defendants in a purported class action
lawsuit commenced on April 27, 1999 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York. This lawsuit was brought on behalf of purchasers of stock
of AMF Bowling, Inc. in an underwritten initial public offering of 15,525,000
shares of common stock in November 1997 at a price of $19.50 per share.
Defendants are AMF Bowling, Inc., certain officers and directors of AMF Bowling,
Inc. (including the Goldman, Sachs & Co. managing director), and the lead
underwriters of the offering (including Goldman, Sachs & Co.). The complaint
alleges violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws
and seeks compensatory damages and/or rescission. The complaint asserts that The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and the Goldman, Sachs & Co. managing director are
liable as controlling persons under the federal securities laws because certain
funds managed by Goldman Sachs owned a majority of the outstanding common stock
of AMF Bowling, Inc. and the managing director served as its chairman at the
time of the offering.
 
                                   PROPERTIES
 
     Our principal executive offices are located at 85 Broad Street, New York,
New York, and comprise approximately 969,000 square feet of leased space,
pursuant to a lease agreement expiring in June 2008 (with an option to renew for
up to 20 additional years). We also occupy over 500,000 square feet at each of 1
New York Plaza and 10 Hanover Square in New York, New York, pursuant to lease
agreements expiring in September 2004 (with an option to renew for ten years)
and June 2018, respectively. We also have a 15-year lease for approximately
590,000 square feet at 180 Maiden Lane in New York, New York, that expires in
March 2014. In total, we lease over 3.1 million square feet in the New York
area, having more than doubled our space since November 1996. We have additional
offices in the United States and elsewhere in the Americas. Together, these
offices comprise approximately 650,000 square feet of leased space.
 
     Consistent with Goldman Sachs' global approach to its business, we also
have offices in Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia. In Europe, we have offices
that total approximately 790,000 square feet. Our largest presence in Europe is
in London, where we lease approximately 639,000 square feet through various
leases, with the principal one, for Peterborough Court, expiring in 2016. An
 
                                       89
<PAGE>   90
 
additional 396,000 square feet of leased space in London is expected to be
occupied during 2001.
 
     In Asia, we have offices that total approximately 360,000 square feet. Our
largest offices in these regions are in Tokyo and Hong Kong. In Tokyo, we
currently lease approximately 175,000 square feet under leases that expire
between November 1999 and June 2005. In Hong Kong, we currently lease
approximately 103,000 square feet under a lease that expires in May 2000. We
recently entered into a new 12-year lease in Hong Kong for approximately 190,000
square feet. There are also significant expansion efforts underway in Tokyo and
Singapore.
 
     Our space requirements have increased significantly over the last several
years. Currently, Goldman Sachs is at or near capacity at most of its locations.
As a result, we have been actively leasing additional space to support our
anticipated growth. Based on our progress to date, we believe that we will be
able to acquire additional space to meet our anticipated needs.
 
                                       90
<PAGE>   91
 
                                   MANAGEMENT
 
                        DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
 
     Set forth below is information concerning the persons who will be the
directors and executive officers of Goldman Sachs as of the date of the
completion of the offerings. We anticipate appointing additional directors over
time who are not employees of Goldman Sachs or affiliated with management.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
    NAME                             AGE                            POSITION
    ----                             ---                            --------
    <S>                              <C>      <C>
    Henry M. Paulson, Jr.            53       Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
    Robert J. Hurst                  53       Director and Vice Chairman
    John A. Thain                    43       Director, President and Co-Chief Operating Officer
    John L. Thornton                 45       Director, President and Co-Chief Operating Officer
    Sir John Browne                  51       Director
    James A. Johnson                 55       Director
    John L. Weinberg                 74       Director
    Robert J. Katz                   51       General Counsel
    Gregory K. Palm                  50       General Counsel
    Robin Neustein                   45       Chief of Staff
    Leslie M. Tortora                42       Chief Information Officer
    David A. Viniar                  43       Chief Financial Officer
    Barry L. Zubrow                  46       Chief Administrative Officer
</TABLE>
 
                            ------------------------
 
     Executive officers are appointed by and serve at the pleasure of our board
of directors. A brief biography of each director and executive officer follows.
 
     Mr. Paulson has been Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or Co-Chief
Executive Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. since June 1998 and served as
Chief Operating Officer from December 1994 to June 1998. From 1990 to November
1994, he was Co-Head of Investment Banking.
 
     Mr. Hurst has been Vice Chairman of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. since
February 1997 and has served as Head or Co-Head of Investment Banking since
1990. He is also a director of VF Corporation and IDB Holding Corporation Ltd.
 
     Mr. Thain has been President of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. since March
1999 and Co-Chief Operating Officer since January 1999. From December 1994 to
March 1999, he served as Chief Financial Officer and Head of Operations,
Technology and Finance. From July 1995 to September 1997, he was also Co-Chief
Executive Officer for European Operations. In 1990, Mr. Thain transferred from
FICC to Operations, Technology and Finance to assume responsibility for
Controllers and Treasury. From 1985 to 1990, Mr. Thain was in FICC where he
established and served as Co-Head of the Mortgage Securities Department. Mr.
Thain is a director of The Depository Trust Company.
 
     Mr. Thornton has been President of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. since
March 1999 and Co-Chief Operating Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. since
January 1999. From August 1998 until January 1999, he had oversight
responsibility for International Operations. From September 1996 until August
1998, he was Chairman, Goldman Sachs -- Asia, in addition to his senior
strategic responsibilities in Europe. From July 1995 to September 1997, he was
Co-Chief Executive Officer for European Operations. From 1994 to 1995, he was
Co-Head of Investment Banking in Europe and from 1992 to 1994 was Head of
European Investment Banking Services. Mr. Thornton is also a director of the
Ford Motor Company, BSkyB PLC, Laura Ashley PLC and the Pacific Century Group.
 
     Sir John Browne has been Group Chief Executive of BP Amoco p.l.c. since

 
                                       91
<PAGE>   92
January 1999. He was Group Chief Executive of The British Petroleum Company
from 1995 to 1999, having served as a Managing Director since 1991. Sir John is
also a director of SmithKline Beecham p.l.c. and the Intel Corporation, a member
of the supervisory board of DaimlerChrysler AG and a trustee of the British
Museum.
 
     Mr. Johnson has been Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of
Directors of Fannie Mae since January 1999. He was Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of Fannie Mae from February 1991 through December 1998. Mr. Johnson is
also a director of the Cummins Engine Company, Dayton Hudson Corporation,
UnitedHealth Group and Kaufman and Broad Home Corporation, Chairman of the John
F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and Chairman of the Board of Trustees
of The Brookings Institution.
 
     Mr. Weinberg has been Senior Chairman of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.
since 1990. From 1984 to 1990, he was Senior Partner and Chairman and, from 1976
to 1984, he served both as Senior Partner and Co-Chairman. Mr. Weinberg is also
a director of Knight-Ridder, Inc., Providian Financial Corp. and Tricon Global
Restaurants, Inc.
 
     Mr. Katz has been General Counsel of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. or its
predecessor since 1988. From 1980 to 1988, Mr. Katz was a partner in Sullivan &
Cromwell.
 
     Mr. Palm has been General Counsel of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. since
1992. He also has senior oversight responsibility for Compliance and Management
Controls, and is Co-Chairman of the Global Compliance and Control Committee.
From 1982 to 1992, Mr. Palm was a partner in Sullivan & Cromwell.
 
     Ms. Neustein has been Chief of Staff to the senior partners of The Goldman
Sachs Group, L.P. since 1992. From 1991 to 1992, Ms. Neustein managed strategic
projects for the senior partners. Prior to then, she was in Investment Banking.
 
     Ms. Tortora has been Chief Information Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group,
L.P. and the Head of Information Technology since March 1999. She has headed
Goldman Sachs' global technology efforts since 1994.
 
     Mr. Viniar has been Chief Financial Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group,
L.P. and Co-Head of Operations, Finance and Resources since March 1999. From
July 1998 until then, he was Deputy Chief Financial Officer and from 1994 until
then, he was Head of Finance, with responsibility for Controllers and Treasury.
From 1992 to 1994, Mr. Viniar was Head of Treasury and immediately prior to then
was in the Structured Finance Department of Investment Banking.
 
     Mr. Zubrow has been Chief Administrative Officer of The Goldman Sachs
Group, L.P. and Co-Head of Operations, Finance and Resources since March 1999.
From 1994 until then he was chief credit officer and Head of the Credit
Department. From 1992 to 1994, Mr. Zubrow was Head of the Midwest Group in the
Corporate Finance Department of Investment Banking.
 
     In addition, Jon S. Corzine, 52, currently is a Director and Co-Chairman of
Goldman Sachs, but will resign both positions immediately prior to the date of
the offerings. After seeing through the completion of the offerings, a project
Mr. Corzine believes is of great importance to Goldman Sachs, he is leaving
Goldman Sachs to pursue other interests. Mr. Corzine has been Co-Chairman of The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. since June 1998 and served as Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. from December 1994 to June
1998 and Co-Chief Executive Officer from June 1998 to January 1999. Mr. Corzine
is a member of the NASD's Board of Governors.
 
     There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers or
directors of Goldman Sachs.
 
                         THE MANAGEMENT AND PARTNERSHIP
                                   COMMITTEES
 
     In January 1999, the Management and Partnership Committees were constituted
as part of Goldman Sachs' overall governance structure. The Management
Committee, which is chaired by Mr. Paulson, has responsibility for policy,
strategy and management of our
 
                                       92
<PAGE>   93
 
businesses. In addition to Messrs. Paulson, Thain, Thornton and Hurst, Ms.
Neustein and Ms. Tortora, the members of this committee and their principal
positions within Goldman Sachs are: Lloyd C. Blankfein (Co-Head, FICC), Richard
A. Friedman (Co-Head, Merchant Banking), Steven "Mac" M. Heller (Co-Chief
Operating Officer, Investment Banking), Robert S. Kaplan (Co-Chief Operating
Officer, Investment Banking), John P. McNulty (Co-Head, Asset Management),
Michael P. Mortara (Co-Head, FICC), Daniel M. Neidich (Co-Head, Merchant
Banking), Mark Schwartz (President, Goldman Sachs -- Japan), Robert K. Steel
(Co-Head, Equities) and Patrick J. Ward (Co-Head, Equities and Deputy
Chairman -- Europe). Mr. Katz is counsel to the Management Committee.
 
     The Partnership Committee, which is chaired by Messrs. Thain and Thornton,
oversees personnel development and career management issues. It focuses on such
matters as recruiting, training, performance evaluation, diversity, mobility and
succession planning and, together with the Management Committee, is expected to
become integral in the process of selecting and compensating managing directors.
In addition to Messrs. Thain and Thornton and Ms. Neustein, the members of this
committee and their principal positions within Goldman Sachs are: David W. Blood
(Head, Asset Management -- Europe), Gary D. Cohn (Head, FICC Commodities and
Emerging Markets), W. Mark Evans (Co-Head, Investment Research), Jacob D.
Goldfield (Head, FICC -- Europe), David B. Heller (Head, Equities Derivatives
Trading), Philip D. Murphy (President, Goldman Sachs -- Asia), Simon M.
Robertson (President, Goldman Sachs -- Europe), Esta E. Stecher (Head, Tax),
John S. Weinberg (Co-Head, Investment Banking Services), Peter A. Weinberg
(Co-Chief Operating Officer, Investment Banking and Deputy Chairman -- Europe)
and Jon Winkelried (Head, Leveraged Finance). Mr. Palm is counsel to the
Partnership Committee.
 
                  INFORMATION REGARDING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
     Our charter will provide for a classified board of directors consisting of
three classes. The term of the initial Class I directors will terminate on the
date of the 2000 annual meeting of shareholders, the term of the initial Class
II directors will terminate on the date of the 2001 annual meeting of
shareholders and the term of the initial Class III directors will terminate on
the date of the 2002 annual meeting of shareholders. Messrs. Thain and Thornton
will be members of Class I, Sir John Browne and Messrs. Johnson and Weinberg
will be members of Class II and Messrs. Hurst and Paulson will be members of
Class III. Beginning in 2000, at each annual meeting of shareholders, successors
to the class of directors whose term expires at that annual meeting will be
elected for a three-year term and until their respective successors have been
elected and qualified. A director may be removed only for cause by the
affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the outstanding shares
of capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors.
 
     It is anticipated that our board of directors will meet at least quarterly.
Members of our board of directors who are employees of Goldman Sachs or any of
its subsidiaries will not be compensated for service on the board of directors
or any committee thereof.
 
     Upon completion of the offerings, Mr. Weinberg will continue in his role as
Senior Chairman under an agreement pursuant to which he will provide senior
advisory services to Goldman Sachs, receive annual compensation of $2 million
and participate in various employee benefit plans. The agreement expires
November 24, 2000, unless earlier terminated by either party on 90 days' notice.
Mr. Weinberg has had similar arrangements with Goldman Sachs since 1990.
 
                      COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
     Our board of directors will have an Audit Committee, composed of directors
who are not employed by Goldman Sachs or affiliated with management. The Audit
Committee will review the results and scope of the audit and other services
provided by our independent auditors as well as review our accounting and
control procedures and policies.
 
     Our board of directors will also have a Compensation Committee. The
Compensation
 
                                       93
<PAGE>   94
 
Committee will oversee the compensation and benefits of the management and
employees of Goldman Sachs and will consist entirely of non-employee directors.
 
     Our board of directors may from time to time establish other committees to
facilitate the management of Goldman Sachs.
 
                             EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     Prior to the offerings of our common stock, our business was carried on in
partnership form. As a result, meaningful individual compensation information
for directors and executive officers of Goldman Sachs based on operating in
corporate form is not available for periods prior to the offerings. However,
Goldman Sachs does not believe that the aggregate compensation that will be paid
in fiscal 1999 to the continuing named executive officers referred to below will
exceed levels that are customary for similarly-situated executives in the
investment banking industry.
 
     The following table sets forth compensation information for our Chief
Executive Officer, three of our continuing executive officers named under
"-- Directors and Executive Officers" and two former executive officers of The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. (the "named executive officers").
 
                    FISCAL 1998 COMPENSATION INFORMATION(1)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
NAME AND PRINCIPAL POSITION
- ---------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>
Henry M. Paulson, Jr.,......................................  $12,700,000
  1998: Co-Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer
  (1999: Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer)
Robert J. Hurst,............................................   11,300,000
  1998: Vice Chairman
  (1999: Director and Vice Chairman)
John A. Thain,..............................................   11,200,000
  1998: Chief Financial Officer
  (1999: Director, President and Co-Chief Operating Officer)
John L. Thornton,...........................................    9,900,000
  1998: Chairman of International Operations
  (1999: Director, President and Co-Chief Operating Officer)
Jon S. Corzine(2),..........................................   12,800,000
  1998: Co-Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer
Roy J. Zuckerberg(3),.......................................   11,000,000
  1998: Vice Chairman
</TABLE>
 
     -------------------------
 
     (1) The amounts in the table represent compensation for fiscal 1998
         only and do not include that portion of each named executive
         officer's total partnership return from The Goldman Sachs Group,
         L.P. in 1998 attributable to a return on his invested capital or
         to his share of the income from investments made by Goldman Sachs
         in prior years that was allocated to the individuals who were
         partners in those years. The return on invested capital for each
         named executive officer was determined using a rate of 12%, the
         actual fixed rate of return that was paid in 1998 to our retired
         limited partners on their long-term capital.
     (2) Mr. Corzine is leaving Goldman Sachs after the completion of the
         offerings.
     (3) Mr. Zuckerberg retired in November 1998.
 
                             ----------------------
 
     Aggregate compensation paid to key employees who are not named executive
officers may exceed that paid to the named executive officers. Each of Messrs.
Paulson, Hurst, Thain, Thornton, Corzine and Zuckerberg have accrued benefits
under the employees' pension plan entitling them to receive annual benefits upon
retirement at age 65 of $10,533, $10,533, $7,074, $11,801, $9,942 and $7,721,
respectively. These benefits had accrued prior to November 1992 and none of
these executive officers has earned additional benefits under the pension plan
since November 1992.
 
                                       94
<PAGE>   95
 
                         EMPLOYMENT, NONCOMPETITION AND
                               PLEDGE AGREEMENTS
 
     Goldman Sachs is entering into employment agreements with each profit
participating limited partner who continues as a managing director and pledge
agreements and agreements relating to noncompetition and other covenants with
all of the managing directors who are profit participating limited partners,
whether or not they retire, including, in both cases, each managing director who
is a member of our board of directors or is an executive officer.
 
     The following are descriptions of the material terms of the employment,
noncompetition and pledge agreements with the manag-ing directors who were
profit participating limited partners. You should, however, refer to the
exhibits that are a part of the registration statement for a copy of the form of
each agreement. See "Available Information".
 
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS
 
     Each employment agreement has an initial term extending through November
24, 2000 (thereafter no set term), requires each continuing managing director
who was a profit participating limited partner to devote his or her entire
working time to the business and affairs of Goldman Sachs and generally may be
terminated at any time by either that managing director or Goldman Sachs on 90
days' prior written notice.
 
     Goldman Sachs has entered into similar employment agreements with all other
managing directors, except that they have no set term.
 
NONCOMPETITION AGREEMENTS
 
     Each noncompetition agreement provides as follows:
 
     CONFIDENTIALITY.  Each managing director who was a profit participating
limited partner is required to protect and use "confidential information" in
accordance with the restrictions placed by Goldman Sachs on its use and
disclosure.
 
     NONCOMPETITION.  During the period ending 12 months after the date a
managing director who was a profit participating limited partner ceases to be
employed by Goldman Sachs, that managing director may not:
 
- - form, or acquire a 5% or greater ownership, voting or profit participation
  interest in, any competitive enterprise; or
 
- - associate with any competitive enterprise and in connection with such
  association engage in, or directly or indirectly manage or supervise personnel
  engaged in, any activity that had a relationship to that managing director's
  activities at Goldman Sachs.
 
When we refer to a "competitive enterprise", we are referring to any business
enterprise that engages in any activity, or owns a significant interest in any
entity that engages in any activity, that competes with any activity in which we
are engaged.
 
     NONSOLICITATION.  During the period ending 18 months after the date a
managing director who was a profit participating limited partner ceases to be
employed by Goldman Sachs, that managing director may not, directly or
indirectly, in any manner:
 
- - solicit any client with whom that managing director worked, or whose identity
  became known to him or her in connection with his or her employment with
  Goldman Sachs, to transact business with a competitive enterprise or reduce or
  refrain from doing any business with Goldman Sachs;
 
- - interfere with or damage any relationship between Goldman Sachs and any client
  or prospective client; or
 
- - solicit any employee of Goldman Sachs to apply for, or accept employment with,
  any competitive enterprise.
 
     TRANSFER OF CLIENT RELATIONSHIPS.  Each managing director who was a profit
participating limited partner is required, upon termination of his or her
employment, to take all actions and do all things reasonably requested by
Goldman Sachs during a 90-day cooperation period to maintain for Goldman Sachs
the business, goodwill and business
 
                                       95
<PAGE>   96
 
relationships with Goldman Sachs' clients with which he or she worked.
 
     LIQUIDATED DAMAGES.  In the case of any breach of the noncompetition or
nonsolicitation provisions prior to the fifth anniversary of the date of the
consummation of the offerings, the breaching managing director will be liable
for liquidated damages. The amount of liquidated damages for each managing
director who initially serves on the board of directors, the Management
Committee or the Partnership Committee of Goldman Sachs is $15 million, and the
amount of liquidated damages for each other managing director who was a profit
participating limited partner is $10 million. These liquidated damages are in
addition to the forfeiture of any future equity-based awards that may occur as a
result of the breach of any noncompetition or nonsolicitation provisions
contained in those awards.
 
PLEDGE AGREEMENT
 
     The liquidated damages provisions of each noncompetition agreement will be
secured by a pledge of stock or other assets with an initial value equal to 100%
of the applicable liquidated damages amount.
 
     Each pledge agreement will terminate on the earliest to occur of:
 
- - the death of the relevant managing director;
 
- - the expiration of the 24-month period following the termination of the
  employment of the relevant managing director; or
 
- - the fifth anniversary of the date of the consummation of the offerings.
 
NONEXCLUSIVITY AND ARBITRATION
 
     The liquidated damages and pledge arrangements discussed above are not
exclusive of any injunctive relief that Goldman Sachs may be entitled to for a
breach of a noncompetition agreement and, after the termination of the pledge
agreement, Goldman Sachs will be entitled to all available remedies for a breach
of a noncompetition agreement.
 
     The employment, noncompetition and pledge agreements generally provide that
any disputes thereunder will be resolved by binding arbitration.
 
                  THE EMPLOYEE INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING AWARDS
 
     On the date of the consummation of the offerings, we intend to provide
awards to our employees and a limited number of consultants and advisors, other
than managing directors who were profit participating limited partners, in one
or more of the following forms:
 
- - substantially all employees will receive a grant of restricted stock units
  awarded based on a formula, with respect to which up to an aggregate of
  30,025,946 shares of common stock will be deliverable;
 
- - certain senior employees, principally managing directors who were not profit
  participating limited partners, will be selected to participate in the defined
  contribution plan described below, to which Goldman Sachs will make an initial
  irrevocable contribution of 12,555,866 shares of common stock;
 
- - certain employees will receive a grant of restricted stock units awarded on a
  discretionary basis, with respect to which up to an aggregate of 33,292,869
  shares of common stock will be deliverable; and
 
- - certain employees will receive a grant of options to purchase shares of common
  stock awarded on a discretionary basis, with respect to which up to an
  aggregate of 40,127,592 shares of common stock will be deliverable.
 
     The restricted stock units awarded to employees based on a formula, the
restricted stock units awarded to employees on a discretionary basis and the
options to purchase shares of common stock awarded to employees on a
discretionary basis will be granted under the stock incentive plan described
below. The restricted stock units awarded to employees on a discretionary and a
formula basis described below will confer only the rights of a general unsecured
creditor of Goldman Sachs and no rights as a shareholder of Goldman Sachs until
the common stock underlying such award is delivered. Any shares of common stock
acquired by a managing director pursuant to the awards will be subject to the
shareholders' agreement described in "Certain Relation-
                                       96
<PAGE>   97
 
ships and Related Transactions -- Shareholders' Agreement".
 
FORMULA AWARDS
 
     The common stock underlying the restricted stock units awarded based on a
formula generally will be deliverable in equal installments on or about the
first, second and third anniversaries of the date of the consummation of the
offerings, although the common stock may be deliverable earlier in the event of
certain terminations of employment following a change in control. While no
additional service will be required to obtain delivery of the underlying common
stock (i.e., the award is "vested"), delivery of the common stock will be
conditioned on the grantee's satisfying certain requirements, including not
being terminated under the circumstances described in the award agreement prior
to delivery of the common stock and not violating any policy of Goldman Sachs
(including in respect of confidentiality and hedging) or otherwise acting in a
manner detrimental to Goldman Sachs (including violating noncompetition or
nonsolicitation provisions of the award). While these restricted stock units are
outstanding, amounts equal to regular cash dividends that would have been paid
on the common stock underlying these units if the common stock had been actually
issued will be paid in cash at about the same time that the dividends are paid
generally to the shareholders. These amounts will be recorded as compensation
expense since the underlying shares of common stock will not have been issued.
 
     Pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, we will record
non-cash compensation expense of $1,591 million related to the restricted stock
units awarded based on a formula on the date of grant, since future service is
not required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying shares of common
stock. For purposes of calculating both basic earnings per share (pursuant to
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128) and book value per share,
the shares of common stock underlying the restricted stock units awarded based
on a formula are included in common stock outstanding for the reason described
above.
 
DISCRETIONARY AWARDS
 
     RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARDED ON A DISCRETIONARY BASIS.  The restricted
stock units awarded on a discretionary basis will vest, and the underlying
common stock will be delivered, in equal installments on or about the third,
fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of consummation of the offerings if
the grantee has satisfied certain conditions and the grantee's employment with
Goldman Sachs has not been terminated, with certain exceptions for terminations
of employment due to death, retirement, extended absence or following a change
in control. While these restricted stock units are outstanding, amounts equal to
regular cash dividends that would have been paid on the common stock underlying
these units if the common stock had been actually issued will be paid in cash at
about the same time that the dividends are paid generally to the shareholders.
These amounts will be recorded as compensation expense since the underlying
shares of common stock will not have been issued.
 
     Pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, we will record
non-cash compensation expense of $1,765 million related to the restricted stock
units awarded on a discretionary basis over the related service period. For
purposes of calculating both basic earnings per share (pursuant to Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 128) and book value per share, the shares of
common stock underlying these restricted stock units are excluded from common
stock outstanding since future service is required as a condition to the
delivery of the underlying shares of common stock. The dilutive effect of these
restricted stock units is, however, included in diluted shares outstanding using
the treasury stock method.
 
     DISCRETIONARY OPTIONS.  The options to purchase shares of common stock
awarded on a discretionary basis will be granted with an exercise price
generally equal to the initial public offering price per share set forth on the
cover page of this prospectus, although in
 
                                       97
<PAGE>   98
 
certain non-U.S. jurisdictions certain employees may be granted discretionary
options with a lower exercise price. These discretionary options will generally
be exercisable in equal installments commencing on or about the third, fourth
and fifth anniversaries of the date of the consummation of the offerings if the
grantee has satisfied certain conditions and the grantee's employment with
Goldman Sachs has not been terminated, with certain exceptions for terminations
of employment due to death, retirement, extended absence or following a change
in control. These discretionary options will thereafter generally remain
exercisable, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, until the tenth
anniversary of the date of the consummation of the offerings or, if earlier,
upon expiration of a period, as specified in the award agreement, following
termination of employment.
 
     These discretionary options will be accounted for pursuant to Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, as permitted by paragraph 5 of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123. Since these options will have no
intrinsic value on the date of grant, no compensation expense will be
recognized.
 
     CONTRIBUTION TO THE DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN.  On the date of the
consummation of the offerings, Goldman Sachs will make an initial irrevocable
contribution of 12,555,866 shares of common stock to the defined contribution
plan. Certain senior employees, principally managing directors who are not
profit participating limited partners, will be selected to participate in the
defined contribution plan. The right to receive shares will vest, and the
underlying common stock will be distributable to participants in the defined
contribution plan, in equal installments on or about the third, fourth and fifth
anniversaries of the initial contribution if the participant has satisfied
certain conditions and the participant's employment with Goldman Sachs has not
been terminated, with certain exceptions for terminations of employment due to
death or following a change in control. Dividends paid on shares allocated to
participants will be distributed currently.
 
     We will record non-cash compensation expense of $666 million related to the
initial irrevocable contribution of shares of common stock to the defined
contribution plan. This non-cash expense will be recognized on the date it is
funded in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87.
 
CHANGE IN CONTROL
 
     The restricted stock units awarded based on a formula, the restricted stock
units awarded on a discretionary basis, the options to purchase shares of common
stock awarded on a discretionary basis and the defined contribution plan provide
that (i) if a change in control occurs and (ii) within 18 months thereafter a
grantee's or participant's employment is terminated by Goldman Sachs other than
for cause or the grantee or participant terminates employment for good reason,
in each case, as determined by Goldman Sachs:
 
- - the common stock underlying any outstanding restricted stock units awarded
  based on a formula will be delivered;
 
- - any outstanding restricted stock units awarded on a discretionary basis will
  vest and the common stock underlying these restricted stock units will be
  delivered;
 
- - any outstanding unexercised options to purchase shares of common stock awarded
  on a discretionary basis will become exercisable and will be exercisable for a
  period of one year following such termination of employment (but in no event
  later than the tenth anniversary of the date of the consummation of the
  offerings) and thereafter terminate; and
 
- - under the defined contribution plan, any unvested portion of the common stock
  attributable to the initial contribution by Goldman Sachs to the defined
  contribution plan will vest and be distributed.
 
     "Change in control" means the consummation of a merger, consolidation,
statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. or sale or other disposition of all or substantially
all of the assets of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. to an entity that is not an
affiliate of The Goldman Sachs
 
                                       98
<PAGE>   99
 
Group, Inc. that, in each case, requires shareholder approval under the law of
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.'s jurisdiction of organization, unless immediately
following such transaction, either:
 
- - at least 50% of the total voting power of the surviving entity or its parent
  entity, if applicable, is represented by securities of The Goldman Sachs
  Group, Inc. that were outstanding immediately prior to the transaction; or
 
- - at least 50% of the members of the board of directors of the surviving entity,
  or its parent entity, if applicable, following the transaction were incumbent
  directors (including directors whose election or nomination was approved by
  the incumbent directors) of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. at the time of the
  board of directors' approval of the execution of the initial agreement
  providing for the transaction.
 
     "Cause" includes, among other things, the grantee's or participant's
conviction of certain misdemeanors or felonies, violation of applicable laws and
violation of any policy of Goldman Sachs, including policies with respect to
hedging and confidentiality.
 
     "Good reason" means a materially adverse alteration in the grantee's or
participant's position or in the nature or status of the grantee's or
participant's responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the
change in control, as determined by Goldman Sachs, or certain relocations by
Goldman Sachs of a grantee's or participant's principal place of employment.
 
THE STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
 
     The following is a description of the material terms of the stock incentive
plan. You should, however, refer to the exhibits that are a part of the
registration statement for a copy of the stock incentive plan. See "Available
Information".
 
     TYPES OF AWARDS.  The stock incentive plan provides for grants of incentive
stock options (within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended), nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights,
dividend equivalent rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other
awards. The stock incentive plan also permits the making of loans to purchase
shares of common stock.
 
     SHARES SUBJECT TO THE STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN; OTHER LIMITATIONS ON
AWARDS.  Subject to adjustment as described below, the total number of shares of
common stock of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. that may be issued under the stock
incentive plan through its fiscal year ending in 2002 may not exceed 300,000,000
shares and, in each fiscal year thereafter, may not exceed five percent (5%) of
the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, determined as of the last day
of the immediately preceding fiscal year, increased by the number of shares
available for awards in previous fiscal years but not covered by awards granted
in such years. These shares may be authorized but unissued common stock or
authorized and issued common stock held in Goldman Sachs' treasury or otherwise
acquired for the purposes of the stock incentive plan. If any award is forfeited
or is otherwise terminated or canceled without the delivery of shares of common
stock, if shares of common stock are surrendered or withheld from any award to
satisfy a grantee's income tax or other withholding obligations, or if shares of
common stock owned by a grantee are tendered to pay the exercise price of
awards, then such shares will again become available under the stock incentive
plan. No more than 200,000,000 shares of common stock may be available for
delivery in connection with the exercise of incentive stock options. The maximum
number of shares of common stock with respect to which options or stock
appreciation rights may be granted to an individual grantee in 1999 is 3,500,000
shares of common stock and, in each fiscal year that follows, is 110% of the
maximum number of shares of common stock applicable for the preceding fiscal
year.
 
     Our Stock Incentive Plan Committee has the authority to adjust the terms of
any outstanding awards and the number of shares of common stock issuable under
the stock incentive plan for any increase or decrease in the number of issued
shares of common stock resulting from a stock split, reverse
                                       99
<PAGE>   100
 
stock split, stock dividend, spin-off, combination or reclassification of the
common stock, or any other event that the Stock Incentive Plan Committee
determines affects our capitalization.
 
     ELIGIBILITY.  Awards may be made to any director, officer or employee of
Goldman Sachs, including any prospective employee, and to any consultant or
advisor to Goldman Sachs selected by the Stock Incentive Plan Committee.
 
     ADMINISTRATION.  The stock incentive plan will be administered by our board
of directors or by the Stock Incentive Plan Committee, a committee appointed by
our board of directors.
 
     The Stock Incentive Plan Committee will have the authority to construe,
interpret and implement the stock incentive plan, and prescribe, amend and
rescind rules and regulations relating to the stock incentive plan. The
determination of the Stock Incentive Plan Committee on all matters relating to
the stock incentive plan or any award agreement will be final and binding.
 
     STOCK OPTIONS AND STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS.  The Stock Incentive Plan
Committee may grant incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options to
purchase shares of common stock from Goldman Sachs (at the price set forth in
the award agreement), and stock appreciation rights in such amounts, and subject
to such terms and conditions, as the Stock Incentive Plan Committee may
determine. No grantee of an option or stock appreciation right will have any of
the rights of a shareholder of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. with respect to
shares subject to their award until the issuance of the shares.
 
     RESTRICTED STOCK.  The Stock Incentive Plan Committee may grant restricted
shares of common stock in amounts, and subject to terms and conditions, as the
Stock Incentive Plan Committee may determine. The grantee will have the rights
of a shareholder with respect to the restricted stock, subject to any
restrictions and conditions as the Stock Incentive Plan Committee may include in
the award agreement.
 
     RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS.  The Stock Incentive Plan Committee may grant
restricted stock units in amounts, and subject to terms and conditions, as the
Stock Incentive Plan Committee may determine. Recipients of restricted stock
units have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of Goldman Sachs and
no rights as a shareholder of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. until the common
stock underlying the restricted stock units is delivered.
 
     OTHER EQUITY-BASED AWARDS.  The Stock Incentive Plan Committee may grant
other types of equity-based awards, including the grant of unrestricted shares,
in amounts, and subject to terms and conditions, as the Stock Incentive Plan
Committee may determine. These awards may involve the transfer of actual shares
of common stock, or the payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the
value of shares of common stock, and may include awards designed to comply with,
or take advantage of certain benefits of, the local laws of non-U.S.
jurisdictions.
 
     CHANGE IN CONTROL.  The Stock Incentive Plan Committee may provide in any
award agreement for provisions relating to a change in control of The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, including, without
limitation, the acceleration of the exercisability of, or the lapse of
restrictions with respect to, the award.
 
     DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT RIGHTS.  The Stock Incentive Plan Committee may in its
discretion include in the award agreement a dividend equivalent right entitling
the grantee to receive amounts equal to the dividends that would be paid, during
the time such award is outstanding, on the shares of common stock covered by
such award as if such shares were then outstanding.
 
     NONASSIGNABILITY.  Except to the extent otherwise provided in the award
agreement or approved by the Stock Incentive Plan Committee, no award or right
granted to any person under the stock incentive plan will be assignable or
transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and
all awards and rights will be exercisable during the life of the grantee only by
the grantee or the grantee's legal representative.
 
                                       100
<PAGE>   101
 
     AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.  Except as otherwise provided in an award
agreement, the board of directors may from time to time suspend, discontinue,
revise or amend the stock incentive plan and the Stock Incentive Plan Committee
may amend the terms of any award in any respect.
 
     U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSEQUENCES OF THE STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN.  The
following is a brief description of the material U.S. federal income tax
consequences generally arising with respect to awards.
 
     The grant of an option or stock appreciation right will create no tax
consequences for the participant or Goldman Sachs. Upon exercising an option,
other than an incentive stock option, the participant will generally recognize
ordinary income equal to the difference between the exercise price and the fair
market value of the shares acquired on the date of exercise and Goldman Sachs
generally will be entitled to a tax deduction in the same amount. A participant
generally will not recognize taxable income upon exercising an incentive stock
option and Goldman Sachs will not be entitled to any tax deduction with respect
to an incentive stock option if the participant holds the shares for the
applicable periods specified in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
     With respect to other awards, upon the payment of cash or the issuance of
shares or other property that is either not restricted as to transferability or
not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (e.g., delivery under the
restricted stock units), the participant will generally recognize ordinary
income equal to the cash or the fair market value of shares or other property
delivered. Goldman Sachs generally will be entitled to a deduction in an amount
equal to the ordinary income recognized by the participant.
 
THE DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN
 
     The defined contribution plan is not intended to be qualified under Section
401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and is not subject to
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
 
     The following is a description of the material terms of the defined
contribution plan. You should, however, refer to the exhibits that are a part of
the registration statement for a copy of the defined contribution plan. See
"Available Information".
 
     ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION.  Our board of directors or the Defined
Contribution Plan Committee, a committee appointed by our board of directors,
will select the employees to participate in the defined contribution plan.
 
     CONTRIBUTIONS.  Goldman Sachs will make an initial irrevocable contribution
to the Defined Contribution Plan Trust, the trust underlying the defined
contribution plan, of 12,555,866 shares of common stock simultaneously with the
consummation of the offerings. Goldman Sachs may contribute additional shares of
common stock or cash to the Defined Contribution Plan Trust from time to time in
its sole discretion. We currently intend to make ongoing contributions to the
defined contribution plan and to reallocate forfeitures under the defined
contribution plan to participants.
 
     ALLOCATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS.  There will be established an account in the
name of each participant and a separate, unallocated account to which any
forfeitures of common stock will be credited pending reallocation to
participants. The Defined Contribution Plan Committee will designate the number
of shares of common stock allocable to the account of each participant. Any
common stock remaining in the unallocated account as of the last day of each
plan year due to forfeitures and any distributions received on common stock
credited to the unallocated account will be reallocated among the accounts of
participants who are employed by Goldman Sachs on the last day of each plan year
pro rata to each such participant's share of Goldman Sachs contributions, for
that plan year, or on such other formulaic basis as the Defined Contribution
Plan Committee may determine.
 
     VOTING AND TENDERING OF COMMON STOCK. Shares of common stock allocated to
participants who are parties to the shareholders' agreement referred to below
will be voted in accordance with the shareholders' agreement and will be
tendered by the trustee of the
 
                                       101
<PAGE>   102
 
Defined Contribution Plan Trust in accordance with confidential instructions
provided by the participants if the transfer restrictions under the
shareholders' agreement are waived (and will not be tendered if the transfer
restrictions are not waived). See "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions -- Shareholders' Agreement" for a discussion of those provisions.
Any shares of common stock allocated to accounts of participants who are not
subject to the shareholders' agreement will be voted and tendered by the trustee
of the Defined Contribution Plan Trust in accordance with confidential
instructions provided by the participant. Shares held in participants' accounts
with respect to which the trustee of the Defined Contribution Plan Trust does
not receive voting or tendering directions will not be voted or tendered.
 
     Shares of common stock held in the unallocated account will be voted or
tendered by the trustee in the same proportion as the shares of common stock
allocated to participants' accounts with respect to which voting or tendering
instructions are received.
 
     DIVIDENDS.  Any cash dividends on shares of common stock allocated to a
participant's account will be distributed to each participant after the end of
the calendar quarter in which such dividend is received.
 
     VESTING AND DISTRIBUTION.  With respect to the initial contribution of
common stock to the defined contribution plan, the right to receive shares of
common stock allocated to a participant's account generally will become vested,
and the common stock generally will be distributable, in equal installments on
or about the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of such
contribution if the participant satisfies certain conditions and the
participant's employment with Goldman Sachs has not been terminated, with
certain exceptions for termination due to death or following a change in
control.
 
     With respect to contributions to the defined contribution plan (other than
the initial contribution), the Defined Contribution Plan Committee may determine
the dates on which the right to receive common stock (or cash) allocated to a
participant's account will vest and be distributable.
 
     ADMINISTRATION OF THE DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN.  The defined contribution
plan will be administered by the Defined Contribution Plan Committee. Our board
of directors may, however, determine allocations of contributions or resolve to
otherwise administer the defined contribution plan.
 
     AMENDMENTS.  Subject to limitations with respect to contributions
previously made to the defined contribution plan, our board of directors
reserves the right to modify, alter, amend or terminate the defined contribution
plan or the Defined Contribution Plan Trust. No modification or amendment of the
defined contribution plan may be made which would cause or permit any part of
the assets of the Defined Contribution Plan Trust to be used for, or diverted
to, purposes other than for the exclusive benefit of participants or their
beneficiaries, or which would cause any part of the assets of the Defined
Contribution Plan Trust to revert to or become the property of Goldman Sachs.
 
     LIMIT ON LIABILITY.  All distributions under the defined contribution plan
will be paid or provided solely from the assets of the Defined Contribution Plan
Trust and Goldman Sachs will have no responsibility or liability to any
participant or beneficiary relating to the common stock or other assets of the
Defined Contribution Plan Trust. The agreement establishing the Defined
Contribution Plan Trust will provide that no creditor of Goldman Sachs will have
any rights to the assets of the Defined Contribution Plan Trust.
 
     U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSEQUENCES. The following is a brief description
of the material U.S. federal income tax consequences generally arising with
respect to participation in the defined contribution plan. A participant in the
defined contribution plan will recognize ordinary income upon the vesting of
shares of common stock allocated to such participant's account in an amount
equal to the fair market value of the vested shares. Goldman Sachs will
generally be entitled to a deduction equal to the fair market value of the
shares at the time of the contribution in the taxable year in which the
participant recognizes income under the defined contribution plan in respect of
the vesting of shares of common stock.
                                       102
<PAGE>   103
 
                         THE PARTNER COMPENSATION PLAN
 
OVERVIEW
 
     To perpetuate the sense of partnership and teamwork that exists among our
senior professionals, and to reinforce the alignment of employee and shareholder
interests, our board of directors has adopted a partner compensation plan for
the purpose of compensating senior professionals. The partner compensation plan
will be administered by our board of directors or the Partner Compensation Plan
Committee, a committee appointed by our board of directors.
 
     Individuals will be selected to participate in the partner compensation
plan for a one-or two-fiscal year cycle. Upon selection to the partner
compensation plan, participants will be allocated a percentage interest in a
pool for annual bonus payments in addition to base salaries. The size of the
pool will be established by the Partner Compensation Plan Committee annually,
taking into account our results of operations and other measures of financial
performance. The Partner Compensation Plan Committee may also retain an
unallocated percentage of the pool that it may allocate among participants at
fiscal year end in its sole discretion. By linking the participant's annual
bonus payments to our results as a whole, as opposed to the results of any
participant's individual business unit, we believe it will provide additional
incentives for teamwork. Further, we believe that the tying of the bonus
payments to overall financial results will more closely align the interests of
the participants with our shareholders. Finally, we believe that the retention
of a percentage of the pool for allocation among participants at fiscal year end
in amounts determined at the sole discretion of the Partner Compensation Plan
Committee will provide appropriate compensation flexibility.
 
     The following is a description of the material terms of the partner
compensation plan. You should, however, refer to the exhibits that are a part of
the registration statement for a copy of the partner compensation plan. See
"Available Information".
 
ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION
 
     Consistent with our historical practice of partnership elections, the
initial cycle will be through the end of fiscal 2000. It is expected that the
participants in the initial cycle will consist of the continuing managing
directors who were profit participating limited partners. Prior to the one- or
two-fiscal year cycle commencing with fiscal 2001, and on or before each
succeeding cycle, the Partner Compensation Plan Committee will determine the
participants in the partner compensation plan. Individual participants may also
be added from time to time outside the annual or biennial selection process.
 
DETERMINATION OF SALARY AND BONUS
 
     The aggregate amount of compensation to be included in the partner
compensation plan for each fiscal year will be determined by the Partner
Compensation Plan Committee, taking into account measures of our financial
performance it deems appropriate (which in 1999 will include a full year's
results), including, but not limited to, earnings per share, return on average
common equity, pre-tax income, pre-tax operating income, net revenues, net
income, profits before taxes, book value per share, stock price, earnings
available to common shareholders and ratio of compensation and benefits to net
revenues.
 
     Prior to the commencement of the first fiscal year in any one- or
two-fiscal year cycle, and prior to the consummation of the offerings in the
case of the initial cycle, the Partner Compensation Plan Committee will
determine both the salaries of and the percentage of the partner compensation
plan pool that may be allocable to any particular participant. The percentage
allocated to any particular participant is expected to be applicable for each
fiscal year within the applicable cycle. Any remaining portion of the partner
compensation plan pool not so allocated will be allocated to individual
participants at the end of the fiscal year in amounts determined by the Partner
Compensation Plan Committee.
 
     Amounts payable under the partner compensation plan will be satisfied in
cash or as awards under the stock incentive plan, as determined by the Partner
Compensation Plan Committee and recommended to the Stock Incentive Plan
Committee.
 
                                       103
<PAGE>   104
 
                       PRINCIPAL AND SELLING SHAREHOLDERS
 
     The following table sets forth as of the date of this prospectus certain
information regarding the beneficial ownership of our common stock:
 
- -  immediately prior to the consummation of the offerings, but after giving
   effect to the incorporation transactions and the related transactions that
   are described under "Certain Relationships and Related
   Transactions -- Incorporation and Related Transactions"; and
 
- -  as adjusted to reflect the sale of the shares of our common stock pursuant to
   the offerings by:
 
   1.  each person who is known to Goldman Sachs to be the beneficial owner of
       more than 5% of our common stock after the consummation of the offerings;
   2.  each director and named executive officer of Goldman Sachs; and
   3.  all directors and executive officers of Goldman Sachs as a group.
 
     Except as otherwise indicated, the persons or entities listed below have
sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares beneficially owned
by them. None of our employees are selling shares of common stock in the
offerings.
     For purposes of this table, information as to the shares of common stock is
calculated based on 386,245,963 shares of common stock outstanding prior to the
consummation of the offerings and 437,245,963 shares of common stock outstanding
after the offerings. For purposes of this table, "beneficial ownership" is
determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, pursuant to which a person or group of persons is deemed to have
"beneficial ownership" of any shares of common stock that such person has the
right to acquire within 60 days after the date of this prospectus. For purposes
of computing the percentage of outstanding shares of common stock held by each
person or group of persons named above, any shares which such person or persons
has the right to acquire within 60 days after the date of this prospectus are
deemed to be outstanding but are not deemed to be outstanding for the purpose of
computing the percentage ownership of any other person.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            SHARES BENEFICIALLY                  SHARES BENEFICIALLY
                                                OWNED PRIOR                          OWNED AFTER
                                               TO OFFERINGS        NUMBER OF          OFFERINGS
                                           ---------------------     SHARES     ---------------------
NAME                                         NUMBER      PERCENT    OFFERED       NUMBER      PERCENT
- ----                                         ------      -------   ----------     ------      -------
<S>                                        <C>           <C>       <C>          <C>           <C>
5% Shareholders:
  Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets,
     Inc.(1).............................   30,425,052     7.9%     9,000,000    21,425,052      4.9%
  Kamehameha Activities Association(2)...   30,975,421     8.0      9,000,000    21,975,421      5.0
Directors and named executive officers:
  Henry M. Paulson, Jr.(3)...............    4,132,235     1.1              0     4,132,235        *
  Robert J. Hurst(3).....................    3,835,124       *              0     3,835,124        *
  John A. Thain(3).......................    3,101,426       *              0     3,101,426        *
  John L. Thornton(3)....................    3,012,541       *              0     3,012,541        *
  Sir John Browne(3).....................            0      --              0             0       --
  James A. Johnson(3)....................            0      --              0             0       --
  John L. Weinberg(3)....................      444,444       *              0       444,444        *
  Jon S. Corzine(4)......................    4,414,198     1.1              0     4,414,198      1.0
  Roy J. Zuckerberg(5)...................    3,026,974       *              0     3,026,974        *
All directors and continuing executive
  officers as a group (13 persons)(6)....   26,152,648     6.8              0    26,152,648      6.0
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
 *  Less than 1% of the outstanding shares of common stock.
 
                                       104
<PAGE>   105
 
(1) 277 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10172. For purposes of calculating the
    number of shares of common stock beneficially owned prior to the offerings,
    includes 9,000,000 shares of common stock beneficially owned by Sumitomo
    Bank Capital Markets, Inc. that will be sold in the offerings. Excludes
    7,440,362 shares of common stock that Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc.
    would receive upon the conversion of its 7,440,362 shares of nonvoting
    common stock. The shares of nonvoting common stock are not convertible until
    the 185th day after the consummation of the offerings. For a description of
    the nonvoting common stock, see "Description of Capital Stock -- Nonvoting
    Common Stock".
 
    Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. in the ordinary course of business
    enters into derivative contracts and other transactions with Goldman Sachs.
    These contracts and other transactions are negotiated on an arm's-length
    basis and contain customary terms and conditions.
 
(2) 567 South King Street, Suite 150, Honolulu, Hawaii 96813. Kamehameha
    Activities Association is the owner of the shares to be offered. The Estate
    of Bernice Pauahi Bishop, an affiliate of Kamehameha Activities Association,
    is joining in and consenting to the sale.
 
    Kamehameha Activities Association in the ordinary course of business is an
    investor in a number of Goldman Sachs' merchant banking funds and from time
    to time is a party to other transactions with Goldman Sachs. These
    investments and transactions are negotiated on an arm's-length basis and
    contain customary terms and conditions.
 
(3) c/o The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., 85 Broad Street, New York, New York
    10004. Excludes any shares of common stock subject to the shareholders'
    agreement referred to below that are owned by other parties to the
    shareholders' agreement. While each of Messrs. Paulson, Hurst, Thain and
    Thornton is a party to the shareholders' agreement and is a member of the
    Shareholders' Committee, each disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares
    of common stock subject to the shareholders' agreement other than those
    specified above for each such person individually, and each disclaims
    beneficial ownership of the shares of common stock subject to the voting
    agreements between Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha
    Activities Association, respectively, on the one hand, and Goldman Sachs, on
    the other hand. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions --
    Shareholders' Agreement" for a discussion of the shareholders' agreement and
    the voting agreements.
 
(4) Mr. Corzine, who is leaving Goldman Sachs after the consummation of the
    offerings, served as Chairman or Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or
    Co-Chief Executive Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. during fiscal
    1998.
 
(5) Mr. Zuckerberg, who retired in November 1998, served as Vice Chairman of The
    Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. during fiscal 1998.
 
(6) Total excludes the shares of common stock beneficially owned by Messrs.
    Corzine and Zuckerberg, former executive officers of The Goldman Sachs
    Group, L.P. Each continuing executive officer is a party to the
    shareholders' agreement and each disclaims beneficial ownership of the
    shares of common stock subject to the shareholders' agreement other than
    those specified above, and each disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares
    of common stock subject to the voting agreements between Sumitomo Bank
    Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association, respectively,
    on the one hand, and Goldman Sachs, on the other hand. See "Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions -- Shareholders' Agreement" for a
    discussion of the shareholders' agreement and the voting agreements.
 
                                       105
<PAGE>   106
 
                 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     The following are descriptions of the material provisions of the agreements
and other documents discussed below. You should, however, refer to the exhibits
that are a part of the registration statement for a copy of each agreement and
document. See "Available Information".
 
                     INCORPORATION AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     Simultaneously with the consummation of the offerings, we will complete a
number of transactions in order to have The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. succeed to
the business of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.
 
     The principal incorporation transactions and related transactions are
summarized below.
 
INCORPORATION TRANSACTIONS
 
     Pursuant to our plan of incorporation:
 
- - The Goldman Sachs Corporation, which is the general partner of The Goldman
  Sachs Group, L.P., will merge into The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. In this
  transaction, the managing directors who were profit participating limited
  partners and who are shareholders of The Goldman Sachs Corporation will
  receive common stock and the other shareholders of The Goldman Sachs
  Corporation will receive common stock;
 
- - The managing directors who were profit participating limited partners will
  exchange their interests in The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and certain
  affiliates for 265,019,073 shares of common stock (these amounts include
  shares issuable in the merger of The Goldman Sachs Corporation into The
  Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.);
 
- - The retired limited partners of Goldman Sachs will exchange their interests in
  The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and certain affiliates for cash, junior
  subordinated debentures or common stock (or a combination thereof). It is
  expected that these transactions will result in the payment of approximately
  $891 million in cash and the issuance of $295 million principal amount of
  junior subordinated debentures and of 47,270,551 shares of common stock (these
  amounts include the shares of common stock issuable to the retired limited
  partners in the merger of The Goldman Sachs Corporation into The Goldman Sachs
  Group, Inc.);
 
- - Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. will exchange its interests in The Goldman
  Sachs Group, L.P. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. for 30,425,052 shares of common
  stock and 7,440,362 shares of nonvoting common stock;
 
- - Kamehameha Activities Association will exchange its interests in The Goldman
  Sachs Group, L.P. for 30,975,421 shares of common stock; and
 
- - After all the interests of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. have been transferred
  to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. will be merged
  into The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
 
RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
- - The restricted stock units awarded to employees based on a formula or on a
  discretionary basis as well as options to purchase shares of common stock
  awarded on a discretionary basis will be granted, the initial irrevocable
  contribution of shares of common stock to the defined contribution plan will
  be made and certain senior employees, principally managing directors who are
  not profit participating limited partners, will be selected to participate in
  the defined contribution plan; and
 
- - After the consummation of the offerings, we will make a $200 million cash
  contribution to the Goldman Sachs Fund, a charitable foundation. The Goldman
  Sachs Fund, which has been in existence for over 30 years, is the entity that
  has historically conducted charitable initiatives for Goldman Sachs. The
  Goldman Sachs Fund is subject to federal tax rules that prohibit it from
  engaging in any act of self-dealing or any activities that result in an
  impermissible benefit to private persons. While the Goldman Sachs Fund has no
  specific intention to contribute to organizations with which Goldman Sachs'
  executive officers or directors are affiliated, the Goldman Sachs Fund
 
                                       106
<PAGE>   107
 
  may in the future make contributions to educational and other organizations
  with which Goldman Sachs' directors or executive officers are involved.
 
                            SHAREHOLDERS' AGREEMENT
 
PERSONS AND SHARES COVERED
 
     Each profit participating limited partner, other than Sumitomo Bank Capital
Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association, and each other person who
is or becomes a managing director on the date of the consummation of the
offerings or thereafter will be a party to the shareholders' agreement. After
the consummation of the offerings, not less than 281,000,000 shares of common
stock will be subject to the shareholders' agreement.
 
     The shares covered by the shareholders' agreement will include generally
all shares of common stock acquired from Goldman Sachs by a party to the
shareholders' agreement, including:
 
- - any shares of common stock received by the managing directors who were profit
  participating limited partners pursuant to the incorporation transactions,
  except for certain shares that aggregate less than 140,000 shares;
 
- - any shares of common stock received from the defined contribution plan;
 
- - any shares of common stock received pursuant to the restricted stock units
  awarded to employees based on a formula, the restricted stock units awarded on
  a discretionary basis or the options to purchase shares of common stock
  awarded on a discretionary basis; and
 
- - unless otherwise determined by our board of directors and the Shareholders'
  Committee referred to below, any shares of common stock received from Goldman
  Sachs through any other employee compensation, benefit or similar plan.
 
     Shares of common stock purchased in the open market or in a subsequent
underwritten public offering will not be subject to the shareholders' agreement.
The Shareholders' Committee may also exclude from the application of all or part
of the shareholders' agreement all or any portion of the common stock acquired
by a managing director who is a new employee of Goldman Sachs.
 
TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS
 
     Each party to the shareholders' agreement will agree, among other things,
to:
 
- - have beneficial ownership while he or she is a managing director of at least
  25% of the cumulative number of his or her shares that are beneficially owned
  or acquired, and are or become subject to the shareholders' agreement; and
 
- - comply with the underwriters' 180-day lock-up arrangement described under
  "Underwriting".
 
     The profit participating limited partners, other than Sumitomo Bank Capital
Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association, will be subject to
additional restrictions on their ability to transfer shares received in
connection with the incorporation transactions described under "-- Incorporation
and Related Transactions -- Incorporation Transactions". Under these additional
restrictions, each of these persons has agreed that he or she will not transfer
any of these shares, other than up to 140,000 shares in the aggregate that will
be excluded from these restrictions, until the third anniversary of the date of
the consummation of the offerings. These restrictions will lapse in equal
installments on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of
the consummation of the offerings.
 
     All transfer restrictions applicable to a party to the shareholders'
agreement, except for the underwriters' 180-day lock-up, terminate upon death.
 
WAIVERS
 
     Except in the case of a third-party tender or exchange offer, the
additional transfer restrictions applicable to profit participating limited
partners, other than Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha
Activities Association, may be waived or terminated at any time by the
Shareholders' Committee. The Shareholders' Committee also has the power to waive
the other transfer restrictions
 
                                       107
<PAGE>   108
 
to permit parties to the shareholders' agreement to:
 
- - participate as sellers in underwritten public offerings of common stock and
  tender and exchange offers and share repurchase programs by Goldman Sachs;
 
- - transfer shares to charities, including charitable foundations;
 
- - transfer shares held in employee benefit plans; and
 
- - transfer shares in specific transactions (for example, to immediate family
  members and trusts) or circumstances.
 
     In the case of a third-party tender or exchange offer, all transfer
restrictions may be waived or terminated:
 
- - if our board of directors is recommending acceptance or is not making any
  recommendation with respect to acceptance of the tender or exchange offer, by
  a majority of the voting interests referred to below; or
 
- - if our board of directors is recommending rejection of the tender or exchange
  offer, by 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting interests referred to below.
 
     In the case of a tender or exchange offer by Goldman Sachs, a majority of
the outstanding voting interests may also elect to waive or terminate the
transfer restrictions.
 
     In any event, the underwriters' 180-day lock-up may not be waived without
the consent of the underwriters.
 
VOTING
 
     Prior to any vote of the shareholders of Goldman Sachs, the shareholders'
agreement requires a separate, preliminary vote of the voting interests on each
matter upon which a vote of the shareholders is proposed to be taken. Each share
subject to the shareholders' agreement will be voted in accordance with the
majority of the votes cast by the voting interests in the preliminary vote. In
elections of directors, each share subject to the shareholders' agreement will
be voted in favor of the election of those persons receiving the highest numbers
of votes cast by the voting interests in the preliminary vote. Prior to January
1, 2001, "voting interests" means all shares that are subject to the
shareholders' agreement. Thereafter, "voting interests" means all shares subject
to the shareholders' agreement held by all managing directors.
 
OTHER RESTRICTIONS
 
     The shareholders' agreement also prevents the persons subject to the
shareholders' agreement from engaging in the following activities relating to
any securities of Goldman Sachs with any person who is not a person subject to
the shareholders' agreement or a director or employee of Goldman Sachs:
 
- - participating in a proxy solicitation;
 
- - depositing any shares subject to the shareholders' agreement in a voting trust
  or subjecting any of these shares to any voting agreement or arrangement;
 
- - forming, joining or in any way participating in a "group"; or
 
- - proposing certain transactions with Goldman Sachs or seeking the removal of
  any of our directors or any change in the composition of our board of
  directors.
 
TERM, AMENDMENT AND CONTINUATION
 
     The shareholders' agreement is to continue in effect until the earlier of
January 1, 2050 and the time it is terminated by the vote of 66 2/3% of the
outstanding voting interests referred to above. The additional transfer
restrictions applicable to profit participating limited partners, other than
Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association, will
not terminate upon the expiration or termination of the shareholders' agreement
unless previously waived or terminated or unless subsequently waived or
terminated by our board of directors. The shareholders' agreement may generally
be amended at any time by a majority of the outstanding voting interests
referred to above.
 
     Unless otherwise terminated, in the event of any transaction in which a
third party succeeds to the business of Goldman Sachs and in which persons
subject to the shareholders' agreement hold securities of the third party, the
shareholders' agreement will remain in full force and effect as to the
securities of the third party, and the third party shall succeed to the rights
and obliga-
                                       108
<PAGE>   109
 
tions of Goldman Sachs under the shareholders' agreement.
 
INFORMATION REGARDING THE SHAREHOLDERS' COMMITTEE
 
     The terms and provisions of the shareholders' agreement will be
administered by the Shareholders' Committee. The Shareholders' Committee will
initially consist of the persons subject to the shareholders' agreement who are
both employees of Goldman Sachs and members of our board of directors. It is
possible that over time all or a majority of the members of the Shareholders'
Committee will not be members of our board of directors.
 
     Members of the Shareholders' Committee are entitled to indemnification from
Goldman Sachs in their capacities as members of the Shareholders' Committee as
described under "Description of Capital Stock -- Limitation of Liability and
Indemnification Matters".
 
                                VOTING AGREEMENT
 
     Both Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities
Association have agreed to vote their shares of common stock in the same manner
as a majority of the shares of common stock held by the managing directors of
Goldman Sachs are voted. The obligations of Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc.
and Kamehameha Activities Association under the voting agreements are
enforceable by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. The managing directors will have no
right to enforce the voting agreements.
 
                         INSTRUMENT OF INDEMNIFICATION
 
     In connection with the offerings, Goldman Sachs will enter into an
instrument of indemnification. The instrument of indemnification will cover
certain former partners of Goldman Sachs, including the managing directors who
were profit participating limited partners, each current director and executive
officer of Goldman Sachs, the retired limited partners, Sumitomo Bank Capital
Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association. Under the instrument of
indemnification, in the event any indemnitee is, or is threatened to be, made a
party to any action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that such
indemnitee was a general or limited partner, shareholder, member, director,
officer, employee or agent of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. or certain of its
affiliates or subsidiaries or is serving or served, at the request of The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. or certain of its affiliates or subsidiaries, in any
of these capacities in another enterprise, Goldman Sachs is, subject to certain
exceptions, obligated to indemnify and hold such indemnitee harmless from any
losses, damages or expenses incurred by such indemnitee in the action, suit or
proceeding. The instrument of indemnification does not duplicate the obligations
of Goldman Sachs under the tax indemnification agreement described below. The
indemnification obligation of Goldman Sachs under the instrument of
indemnification also extends to the indemnification obligations that certain
indemnitees, including each current director and executive officer of The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., may have to other indemnitees.
 
     The instrument of indemnification also provides that Goldman Sachs will,
subject to certain exceptions, release each indemnitee from all actions, suits
or other claims that The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. may have had or which Goldman
Sachs, as a successor to The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., may have arising out of
an indemnitee's partnership or other interest in The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.
or certain of its affiliates or subsidiaries or arising out of the conduct of
such indemnitee while engaged in the conduct of the business of The Goldman
Sachs Group, L.P. or its affiliates or subsidiaries.
 
                      DIRECTOR AND OFFICER INDEMNIFICATION
 
     We will enter into an agreement that provides indemnification to our
directors and officers and to the directors and certain officers of the general
partner of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., members of our Management Committee or
our Partnership Committee or the former Executive Committee of The Goldman Sachs
Group, L.P. and all other persons requested or authorized by our board of
directors or the board of directors of the general partner of The Goldman Sachs
Group, L.P. to take actions on behalf of us, The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. or
the general partner of The Goldman Sachs Group,
 
                                       109
<PAGE>   110
 
L.P. in connection with the plan of incorporation, the registration statement
and certain other registration statements for all losses, damages, costs and
expenses incurred by the indemnified person arising out of the relevant
registration statements or the transactions contemplated by the plan of
incorporation. This agreement is in addition to our indemnification obligations
under our by-laws as described under "Description of Capital Stock -- Limitation
of Liability and Indemnification Matters".
 
                       TAX INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT AND
                                RELATED MATTERS
 
     An entity that has historically operated in corporate form generally is
liable for any adjustments to the corporation's taxes for periods prior to its
initial public offering. In contrast, the partners of The Goldman Sachs Group,
L.P., rather than Goldman Sachs, generally will be liable for adjustments to
taxes (including U.S. federal and state income taxes) attributable to the
operations of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and its affiliates prior to the
offerings. In connection with the offerings, we will enter into a tax
indemnification agreement to indemnify certain former limited partners of The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., including the managing directors who were profit
participating limited partners, each current director and executive officer of
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., the retired limited partners, Sumitomo Bank
Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association, against certain
increases in each tax indemnitee's taxes that relate to activities of The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. or certain of its affiliates in respect of periods
prior to the offerings. We will be required to make additional payments to
offset any taxes payable by a tax indemnitee in respect of payments made
pursuant to the tax indemnification agreement only to the extent the payments
made to that tax indemnitee exceed a fixed amount. Any such payment of
additional taxes by Goldman Sachs will be offset by any tax benefit received by
the tax indemnitee.
 
     The tax indemnification agreement includes provisions that permit Goldman
Sachs to control any tax proceeding or contest which might result in Goldman
Sachs being required to make a payment under the tax indemnification agreement.
 
     The incorporation transactions described under "-- Incorporation and
Related Transactions -- Incorporation Transactions" are structured in a manner
that is not expected to result in a significantly disproportionate tax or other
burden to any partner of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. If the incorporation
transactions were to have a disproportionate effect on any partner, Goldman
Sachs may, but is not required to, make special payments and arrangements with
any person who incurs a disproportionate tax or other burden.
 
                                       110
<PAGE>   111
 
                          DESCRIPTION OF CAPITAL STOCK
 
     Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our
authorized capital stock consists of 4,350,000,000 shares, each with a par value
of $0.01 per share, of which:
 
- - 150,000,000 shares are designated as preferred stock;
 
- - 4,000,000,000 shares are designated as common stock, 467,271,909 shares of
  which will be outstanding as of the consummation of the offerings, including
  30,025,946 shares of common stock underlying the restricted stock units
  awarded based on a formula; and
 
- - 200,000,000 shares are designated as nonvoting common stock, 7,440,362 shares
  of which will be outstanding as of the consummation of the offerings.
 
All outstanding shares of common stock and nonvoting common stock are, and the
shares of common stock offered hereby will be, when issued and sold, validly
issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
 
     The shareholders' agreement contains provisions relating to the voting and
disposition of certain shares of common stock. See "Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions -- Shareholders' Agreement" for a discussion of those
provisions.
 
                                PREFERRED STOCK
 
     Our authorized capital stock includes 150,000,000 shares of preferred
stock. Our board of directors is authorized to divide the preferred stock into
series and, with respect to each series, to determine the designations and the
powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and
restrictions thereof, including the dividend rights, conversion or exchange
rights, voting rights, redemption rights and terms, liquidation preferences,
sinking fund provisions and the number of shares constituting the series. Our
board of directors could, without shareholder approval, issue preferred stock
with voting and other rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the
holders of common stock and which could have certain anti-takeover effects.
 
     Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock, the
number of authorized shares of any series of preferred stock may be increased or
decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by
resolution adopted by our board of directors and approved by the affirmative
vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all outstanding shares
of capital stock entitled to vote on the matter, voting together as a single
class.
 
                                  COMMON STOCK
 
     Each holder of common stock is entitled to one vote for each share owned of
record on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders. There are no
cumulative voting rights. Accordingly, the holders of a majority of the shares
of common stock voting for the election of directors can elect all the directors
if they choose to do so, subject to any voting rights of holders of preferred
stock to elect directors. For a discussion of the ability of the parties to the
shareholders' agreement initially to elect all of our directors, see "Risk
Factors -- Goldman Sachs Will Be Controlled by Its Managing Directors Whose
Interests May Differ from Those of Other Shareholders".
 
     Subject to the preferential rights of any holders of any outstanding series
of preferred stock, the holders of common stock, together with the holders of
the nonvoting common stock, will be entitled to such dividends and
distributions, whether payable in cash or otherwise, as may be declared from
time to time by our board of directors from legally available funds. Subject to
the preferential rights of holders of any outstanding series of preferred stock,
upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up and after payment of all prior
claims, the holders of common stock, with the shares of the common stock and the
nonvoting common stock being considered as a single class for this purpose, will
be entitled to receive pro rata all our assets. Any dividend in shares of common
stock paid on or with respect to shares of common stock may be paid only with
shares of common stock.
 
                                       111
<PAGE>   112
 
Other than the shareholder protection rights discussed below, holders of common
stock have no redemption or conversion rights or preemptive rights to purchase
or subscribe for securities of Goldman Sachs.
 
                             NONVOTING COMMON STOCK
 
     The nonvoting common stock will have the same rights and privileges as, and
will rank equally and share proportionately with, and be identical in all
respects as to all matters to, the common stock, except that the nonvoting
common stock will have no voting rights other than those voting rights required
by law. All of the outstanding shares of nonvoting common stock will be
beneficially owned by Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. on the date of the
consummation of the offerings.
 
     Our board of directors will not declare or pay dividends, and no dividend
will be paid, with respect to any outstanding share of common stock or nonvoting
common stock, unless, simultaneously, the same dividend is paid with respect to
each share of common stock and nonvoting common stock, except that in the case
of any dividend in the form of capital stock of a subsidiary of Goldman Sachs,
the capital stock of the subsidiary distributed to holders of common stock may
differ from the capital stock of the subsidiary distributed to holders of the
nonvoting common stock to the extent and only to the extent that the common
stock and the nonvoting common stock differ. Any dividend paid on or with
respect to nonvoting common stock may be paid only with shares of nonvoting
common stock.
 
     The shares of nonvoting common stock may not be converted into common stock
until the 185th day after the date of the consummation of the offerings.
Beginning on the 185th day the nonvoting common stock will, upon transfer by
Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. to a third party, and in certain other
circumstances, convert into shares of common stock on a one-for-one basis. The
nonvoting common stock has standard anti-dilution provisions.
 
                         SHAREHOLDER PROTECTION RIGHTS
 
     Each share of common stock and non-voting common stock has attached to it a
shareholder protection right. The shareholder protection rights initially are
represented only by the certificates for the shares and will not trade
separately from the shares unless and until:
 
- - it is announced by Goldman Sachs that a person or group has become the
  beneficial owner of 15% or more of the outstanding common stock (other than
  persons deemed to beneficially own common stock solely because they are
  parties to the shareholders' agreement, members of the Shareholders' Committee
  or certain other persons)(an "acquiring person"); or
 
- - ten business days (or such later date as our board of directors may fix by
  resolution) after the date a person or group commences a tender or exchange
  offer that would result in such person or group becoming an acquiring person.
 
If and when the shareholder protection rights separate and prior to the date of
the announcement by Goldman Sachs that any person has become an acquiring
person, each shareholder protection right will entitle the holder to purchase,
in the case of shareholder protection rights relating to the common stock,
1/100 of a share of Series A participating preferred stock or, in the case of
shareholder protection rights relating to the nonvoting common stock, 1/100 of a
share of Series B participating preferred stock, in each case, for an exercise
price of $250. Each 1/100 of a share of Series A participating preferred stock
and Series B participating preferred stock would have economic and voting terms
equivalent to one share of common stock and nonvoting common stock,
respectively.
 
     Upon the date of the announcement by Goldman Sachs that any person or group
has become an acquiring person, each shareholder protection right (other than
shareholder protection rights beneficially owned by the acquiring person or
their transferees, which shareholder protection rights become void) will entitle
its holder to purchase, for the exercise price, a number of shares of
 
                                       112
<PAGE>   113
 
common stock or, in the case of shareholder protection rights relating to
nonvoting common stock, a number of shares of nonvoting common stock having a
market value of twice the exercise price. Also, if, after the date of the
announcement by Goldman Sachs that any person has become an acquiring person,
the acquiring person controls our board of directors and:
 
- - Goldman Sachs is involved in a merger or similar form of business combination
  and (i) any term of the transaction provides for different treatment of the
  shares of capital stock held by the acquiring person as compared to the shares
  of capital stock held by all other shareholders or (ii) the person with whom
  such transaction occurs is the acquiring person or an affiliate thereof; or
 
- - Goldman Sachs sells or transfers assets representing more than 50% of its
  assets or generating more than 50% of its operating income or cash flow to any
  person other than Goldman Sachs or its wholly owned subsidiaries,
 
then each shareholder protection right will entitle its holder to purchase, for
the exercise price, a number of shares (A) with respect to shareholder
protection rights relating to the common stock, of capital stock with the
greatest voting power in respect of the election of directors and (B) with
respect to shareholder protection rights relating to the nonvoting common stock,
of capital stock identical to the stock described in clause (A) except with
voting provisions identical to that of the nonvoting common stock, of either the
acquiring person or the other party to such transaction, depending on the
circumstances of the transaction, having a market value of twice the exercise
price. If any person or group acquires from 15% to and including 50% of the
common stock, our board of directors may, at its option, exchange each
outstanding shareholder protection right, except for those held by an acquiring
person or their transferees, for one share of common stock or, in the case of
shareholder protection rights relating to nonvoting common stock, one share of
nonvoting common stock.
 
     The shareholder protection rights may be redeemed by our board of directors
for $0.01 per shareholder protection right prior to the date of the announcement
by Goldman Sachs that any person has become an acquiring person. Our charter
permits this redemption right to be exercised by our board of directors (or
certain directors specified or qualified by the terms of the instrument
governing the shareholder protection rights).
 
     The shareholder protection rights will not prevent a takeover of Goldman
Sachs. However, these rights may cause substantial dilution to a person or group
that acquires 15% or more of the common stock unless the shareholder protection
rights are first redeemed by our board of directors.
 
                          LIMITATION OF LIABILITY AND
                            INDEMNIFICATION MATTERS
 
     Our charter provides that a director of Goldman Sachs will not be liable to
Goldman Sachs or its shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary
duty as a director, except in certain cases where liability is mandated by the
Delaware General Corporation Law. Our by-laws provide for indemnification, to
the fullest extent permitted by law, of any person made or threatened to be made
a party to any action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that such person
is or was a director or officer of Goldman Sachs, or is or was a director of a
subsidiary of Goldman Sachs, or is or was a member of the Shareholders'
Committee acting under the shareholders' agreement or, at the request of Goldman
Sachs, serves or served as a director or officer of or in any other capacity
for, or in relation to, any other enterprise, against all expenses, liabilities,
losses and claims actually incurred or suffered by such person in connection
with the action, suit or proceeding. Our by-laws also provide that, to the
extent authorized from time to time by our board of directors, Goldman Sachs may
provide to any one or more employees and other agents of Goldman Sachs or any
subsidiary or other enterprise, rights of indemnification and to receive payment
or reimbursement of expenses, including attorneys' fees, that are similar to the
rights conferred by the by-laws
 
                                       113
<PAGE>   114
 
on directors and officers of Goldman Sachs or any subsidiary or other
enterprise.
 
                  CHARTER PROVISIONS APPROVING CERTAIN ACTIONS
 
     Our charter provides that our board of directors may determine to take the
following actions, in its sole discretion, and Goldman Sachs and each
shareholder of Goldman Sachs will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be
deemed to have approved and ratified, and waived any claim relating to, the
taking of any of these actions:
 
- - causing Goldman Sachs to register with the SEC for resale shares of common
  stock held by our directors, employees and former directors and employees and
  our subsidiaries and affiliates and former partners and employees of The
  Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and its subsidiaries and affiliates as discussed
  under "Shares Eligible for Future Sale -- Other Registration Rights";
 
- - making payments to, and other arrangements with, certain former limited
  partners of Goldman Sachs, including managing directors who were profit
  participating limited partners, in order to compensate them for, or to
  prevent, significantly disproportionate adverse tax or other consequences as
  discussed under "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions -- Tax
  Indemnification Agreement and Related Matters"; and
 
- - making a $200 million contribution to the Goldman Sachs Fund, a charitable
  foundation.
 
                               SECTION 203 OF THE
                        DELAWARE GENERAL CORPORATION LAW
 
     Upon the consummation of the offerings, Goldman Sachs will be subject to
the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In
general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from
engaging in a "business combination" with an "interested stockholder" for a
period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person
became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in
a prescribed manner. A "business combination" includes a merger, asset sale or a
transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. An
"interested stockholder" is a person who, together with affiliates and
associates, owns (or, in certain cases, within three years prior, did own) 15%
or more of the corporation's outstanding voting stock. Under Section 203, a
business combination between Goldman Sachs and an interested stockholder is
prohibited unless it satisfies one of the following conditions:
 
- - prior to the time the stockholder became an interested stockholder, the board
  of directors of Goldman Sachs must have previously approved either the
  business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder
  becoming an interested stockholder;
 
- - on consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming
  an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of
  the voting stock of Goldman Sachs outstanding at the time the transaction
  commenced (excluding, for purposes of determining the number of shares
  outstanding, shares owned by persons who are directors and officers); or
 
- - the business combination is approved by the board of directors of Goldman
  Sachs and authorized at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders by
  the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting stock which
  is not owned by the interested stockholder.
 
     Our board of directors has adopted a resolution providing that neither the
shareholders' agreement nor the voting agreements of Sumitomo Bank Capital
Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association will create an "interested
stockholder".
 
                         CERTAIN ANTI-TAKEOVER MATTERS
 
     Our charter and by-laws will, upon consummation of the offerings, include a
number of provisions that may have the effect of encouraging persons considering
unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals to negotiate
with our board of directors
                                       114
<PAGE>   115
 
rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. These provisions include:
 
CLASSIFIED BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
     Our charter will provide for a board of directors divided into three
classes, with one class to be elected each year to serve for a three-year term.
The terms of the initial classes of directors will terminate on the date of the
annual meetings of shareholders in 2000, 2001 and 2002. As a result, at least
two annual meetings of shareholders may be required for the shareholders to
change a majority of our board of directors. In addition, the shareholders of
Goldman Sachs can only remove directors for cause by the affirmative vote of the
holders of not less than 80% of the outstanding shares of capital stock of
Goldman Sachs entitled to vote in the election of directors. Vacancies on our
board of directors may be filled only by our board of directors. The
classification of directors and the inability of shareholders to remove
directors without cause and to fill vacancies on the board of directors will
make it more difficult to change the composition of our board of directors, but
will promote a continuity of existing management.
 
CONSTITUENCY PROVISION
 
     In accordance with our charter, a director of Goldman Sachs may (but is not
required to) in taking any action (including an action that may involve or
relate to a change or potential change in control of Goldman Sachs) consider,
among other things, the effects that Goldman Sachs' actions may have on other
interests or persons (including its employees, former partners of The Goldman
Sachs Group, L.P. and the community) in addition to our shareholders.
 
ADVANCE NOTICE REQUIREMENTS
 
     Our by-laws establish advance notice procedures with regard to shareholder
proposals relating to the nomination of candidates for election as directors or
new business to be brought before meetings of shareholders of Goldman Sachs.
These procedures provide that notice of such shareholder proposals must be
timely given in writing to the Secretary of Goldman Sachs prior to the meeting
at which the action is to be taken. Generally, to be timely, notice must be
received at the principal executive offices of Goldman Sachs not less than 90
days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual
meeting for the preceding year. The notice must contain certain information
specified in the by-laws.
 
SPECIAL MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS
 
     Our charter and by-laws deny shareholders the right to call a special
meeting of shareholders. Our charter and by-laws provide that special meetings
of the shareholders may be called only by a majority of the board of directors.
 
NO WRITTEN CONSENT OF SHAREHOLDERS
 
     Our charter requires all shareholder actions to be taken by a vote of the
shareholders at an annual or special meeting, and does not permit our
shareholders to act by written consent, without a meeting.
 
MAJORITY VOTE NEEDED FOR SHAREHOLDER PROPOSALS
 
     Our by-laws require that any shareholder proposal be approved by a majority
of all of the outstanding shares of common stock and not by only a majority of
the shares present at the meeting and entitled to vote. This requirement may
make it more difficult to approve shareholder resolutions.
 
AMENDMENT OF BY-LAWS AND CHARTER
 
     Our charter requires the approval of not less than 80% of the voting power
of all outstanding shares of Goldman Sachs' capital stock entitled to vote to
amend any by-law by shareholder action or the charter provisions described in
this section. Those provisions will make it more difficult to dilute the anti-
takeover effects of our by-laws and our charter.
 
BLANK CHECK PREFERRED STOCK
 
     Our charter provides for 150,000,000 authorized shares of preferred stock.
The existence of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock may enable
the board of directors to render more difficult or to dis-
 
                                       115
<PAGE>   116
 
courage an attempt to obtain control of Goldman Sachs by means of a merger,
tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. For example, if in the due exercise of
its fiduciary obligations, the board of directors were to determine that a
takeover proposal is not in the best interests of Goldman Sachs, the board of
directors could cause shares of preferred stock to be issued without shareholder
approval in one or more private offerings or other transactions that might
dilute the voting or other rights of the proposed acquiror or insurgent
shareholder or shareholder group. In this regard, the charter grants our board
of directors broad power to establish the rights and preferences of authorized
and unissued shares of preferred stock. The issuance of shares of preferred
stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for
distribution to holders of shares of common stock and nonvoting common stock.
The issuance may also adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting
rights, of such holders and may have the effect of delaying, deterring or
preventing a change in control of Goldman Sachs. The board of directors
currently does not intend to seek shareholder approval prior to any issuance of
shares of preferred stock, unless otherwise required by law.
 
                                    LISTING
 
     We will list the common stock on the NYSE.
 
                                 TRANSFER AGENT
 
     The transfer agent for the common stock will be ChaseMellon Shareholder
Services, L.L.C.
 
                                       116
<PAGE>   117
 
                        SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE
 
     Prior to the offerings, there has been no public market for our common
stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market,
or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the
prevailing market price of the common stock. Upon completion of the offerings,
there will be 467,271,909 shares of common stock outstanding, including
30,025,946 shares of common stock underlying the restricted stock units awarded
based on a formula but excluding 7,440,362 shares of nonvoting common stock. Of
these shares, 69,000,000 shares of common stock sold in the offerings will be
freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the
Securities Act of 1933. Of the remaining 398,271,909 shares of common stock
outstanding:
 
- - 264,882,840 shares held by the managing directors who were profit
  participating limited partners will not be transferable until on or after the
  third anniversary of the date of the consummation of the offerings, unless
  these restrictions are waived, and will also be subject to the underwriters'
  lock-up described below. See "Certain Relationships and Related
  Transactions -- Shareholders' Agreement";
 
- - 21,425,052 shares will be held by Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and,
  together with the 7,440,362 shares of nonvoting common stock that it will
  hold, will be transferable only as described under "-- Sumitomo Bank Capital
  Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association Registration Rights",
  unless these restrictions are waived by our board of directors. All of these
  shares will also be subject to the underwriters' lock-up described below;
 
- - 21,975,421 shares will be held by Kamehameha Activities Association and will
  be transferable only as described under "-- Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets,
  Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association Registration Rights", unless these
  restrictions are waived by our board of directors. All of these shares will
  also be subject to the underwriters' lock-up described below;
 
- - 47,270,551 shares will be held by the retired limited partners, of which
  101,878 shares will be subject only to the underwriters' lock-up described
  below, 31,099,839 shares will be transferable beginning one year after the
  date of the consummation of the offerings, and the remainder of which will be
  transferrable beginning three years after the date of the consummation of the
  offerings, unless these restrictions are waived. All of these shares are also
  subject to the underwriters' lock-up described below;
 
- - 12,555,866 shares held by the defined contribution plan will not be
  distributable to the plan participants until on or about the third, fourth and
  fifth anniversaries of the date of the initial contribution, assuming the
  relevant conditions have been satisfied. See "Management -- The Employee
  Initial Public Offering Awards" for a description of the defined contribution
  plan;
 
- - 30,025,946 shares of common stock underlying the restricted stock units
  awarded based on a formula generally will be deliverable beginning on or about
  the first anniversary of the date of the consummation of the offerings,
  assuming the relevant conditions are satisfied, as described in
  "Management -- The Employee Initial Public Offering Awards -- Formula Awards";
  and
 
- - 136,233 shares of common stock held by the managing directors who were profit
  participating limited partners will be subject to the underwriters' lock-up
  described below and will be eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144 after one
  year as described below.
 
     Shares of common stock underlying the restricted stock units awarded on a
discretionary basis will be deliverable beginning on or about the third
anniversary of the date of the consummation of the offerings, assuming the
relevant conditions have been satisfied. The options to purchase shares of
common stock awarded on a discretionary basis will be exercisable beginning on
or about the third anniversary of the date of the consummation
 
                                       117
<PAGE>   118
 
of the offerings, assuming the relevant conditions have been satisfied. See
"Management--The Employee Initial Public Offering Awards" for a discussion of
the terms of the restricted stock units awarded based on a formula, the
restricted stock units awarded on a discretionary basis and the options to
purchase shares of common stock awarded on a discretionary basis.
 
     Goldman Sachs, Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc., Kamehameha Activities
Association, the parties to the shareholders' agreement, including all of the
directors and executive officers of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and the
retired limited partners have agreed not to dispose of or hedge any of their
common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of common
stock during the period from the date of this prospectus continuing through the
date 180 days after the date of this prospectus, except with the prior written
consent of Goldman, Sachs & Co. This agreement does not apply to the shares of
common stock underlying any of the restricted stock units awarded based on a
formula, or the restricted stock units awarded on a discretionary basis, the
options to purchase shares of common stock awarded on a discretionary basis or
accounts in the defined contribution plan, in each case, received by
non-managing directors or to any future awards made under the stock incentive
plan.
 
     We intend to file a registration statement with the SEC in order to
register the reoffer and resale of the shares of common stock issued pursuant to
the defined contribution plan, restricted stock units awarded based on a
formula, restricted stock units awarded on a discretionary basis and options to
purchase shares of common stock awarded on a discretionary basis. As a result,
any shares of common stock delivered under these awards will, subject to any
restrictions under the shareholders' agreement, be freely transferable to the
public unless the shares of common stock are acquired by an "affiliate" of
Goldman Sachs. Any shares of common stock acquired by an "affiliate" of Goldman
Sachs will be transferable to the public in accordance with the SEC's Rule 144.
 
     The shares of common stock received by the managing directors who were
profit participating limited partners, Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and
Kamehameha Activities Association will constitute "restricted securities" for
purposes of the Securities Act of 1933. As a result, absent registration under
the Securities Act of 1933 or compliance with Rule 144 thereunder or an
exemption therefrom, these shares of common stock will not be freely
transferable to the public. For a description of the registration rights granted
to Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association and
the restrictions on the transfer of their shares of common stock, see
"-- Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha Activities Association
Registration Rights" below and for a description of the registration rights that
may be granted to the managing directors who were profit participating limited
partners, see "-- Other Registration Rights" below.
 
     In general, under Rule 144 as currently in effect, a person (or persons
whose shares are aggregated), including an affiliate, who beneficially owns
"restricted securities" may not sell those securities until they have been
beneficially owned for at least one year. Thereafter, the person would be
entitled to sell within any three-month period a number of shares that does not
exceed the greater of:
 
- - 1% of the number of shares of common stock then outstanding (which will equal
  approximately 4,372,460 shares immediately after the offerings); or
 
- - the average weekly trading volume of the common stock on the NYSE during the
  four calendar weeks preceding the filing with the SEC of a notice on the SEC's
  Form 144 with respect to such sale.
 
     Sales under Rule 144 are also subject to certain other requirements
regarding the manner of sale, notice and availability of current public
information about Goldman Sachs.
 
     Under Rule 144(k), a person who is not, and has not been at any time during
the 90 days preceding a sale, an affiliate of Goldman Sachs and who has
beneficially owned the shares proposed to be sold for at least two years
(including the holding period
 
                                       118
<PAGE>   119
 
of any prior owner except an affiliate) is entitled to sell such shares without
complying with the manner of sale, public information, volume limitation or
notice provisions of Rule 144. While the shares of common stock received by the
retired limited partners will constitute "restricted securities", these shares
will be freely transferable by the retired limited partners in accordance with
Rule 144(k) upon the lapse or waiver of the transfer restrictions described
above.
 
                    SUMITOMO BANK CAPITAL MARKETS, INC. AND
                       KAMEHAMEHA ACTIVITIES ASSOCIATION
                              REGISTRATION RIGHTS
 
     Goldman Sachs is a party to agreements with Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets,
Inc. and The Sumitomo Bank, Limited under which Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets,
Inc. and The Sumitomo Bank, Limited may require Goldman Sachs to register under
the Securities Act of 1933 certain of Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc.'s
shares of common stock, which includes shares of common stock receivable upon
the conversion of the nonvoting common stock. Goldman Sachs is a party to
similar agreements with Kamehameha Activities Association.
 
     Except for certain transfers to wholly owned subsidiaries, each
registration rights holder has agreed that it will only dispose of common stock
(i) by means of a widely dispersed underwritten public offering and (ii)
pursuant to the exercise of the registration rights set forth below.
 
     Each registration rights holder has the right:
 
- - on up to ten occasions (but not more than twice every 12 months) to require
  Goldman Sachs to register shares of common stock under the Securities Act of
  1933; and
 
- - to include its shares of common stock in any registered public offering in
  which the managing directors participate.
 
     Prior to the first anniversary of the date of the consummation of the
offerings, the registration rights holders are not permitted to transfer shares
of common stock or nonvoting common stock. Between the first and third
anniversaries of the date of the consummation of the offerings, each
registration rights holder may use its available registration rights described
above to sell:
 
- - In each 12-month period following the first and second anniversary of the date
  of the consummation of the offerings, up to 20% of the shares of common stock
  received by such registration rights holder in the incorporation transactions
  (such holder's "original block"); and
 
- - With the consent of Goldman Sachs, common stock constituting up to an
  additional 13 1/3% of such holder's original block.
 
     In each 12-month period following the third anniversary of the date of the
consummation of the offerings, each registration rights holder may use its
available registration rights described above to sell common stock constituting
up to 33 1/3% of its original block.
 
     These rights are not available for nonvoting common stock.
 
     In addition to the rights described above, each registration rights holder
will also be entitled to sell additional shares of common stock to the extent
that managing directors who were profit participating limited partners sell
shares of common stock in an amount which in any one year period following the
offerings represents, in the aggregate, a greater percentage of the number of
shares of common stock issued to these managing directors in the incorporation
transactions than the percentages specified above (i.e., 0% during year one, 20%
during years two and three, and 33 1/3% thereafter). The exercise by the
registration rights holders of their respective rights under their registration
rights agreement may, if we determine that such exercise would interfere with a
public offering by us, be delayed by us for up to 90 days.
 
     Goldman Sachs has agreed to bear certain customary expenses associated with
the offering of common stock by Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and
Kamehameha Activities Association. Thereafter, the registration rights
agreements provide that the expenses of an offering of common stock are
generally the responsibility of each participating registration rights holder
selling common stock, apportioned on a pro rata basis. Under the
                                       119
<PAGE>   120
 
registration rights agreements, Goldman Sachs has agreed to indemnify each
participating registration rights holder against certain liabilities, including
those arising under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
     The registration rights agreements also provide that if Goldman Sachs makes
a general offer to purchase shares of common stock held by the managing
directors who were profit participating limited partners, then a registration
rights holder will be permitted to participate in such transaction on a pro rata
basis with these managing directors. In addition, a registration rights holder
may tender its shares of common stock in any tender or exchange offer
recommended for approval by our board of directors (or as to which our board of
directors makes no recommendation).
 
                           OTHER REGISTRATION RIGHTS
 
     The managing directors who were profit participating limited partners are
not being granted the right to require Goldman Sachs to register the shares of
common stock that they received in connection with the incorporation
transactions under the Securities Act of 1933. However, the plan of
incorporation and our charter permit our board of directors to grant
registration rights to these managing directors. As a result, the board of
directors may at any time and from time to time grant registration rights to
these managing directors.
 
     The ability of our board of directors to grant registration rights to the
managing directors who were profit participating limited partners, together with
the ability of the Shareholders' Committee under the shareholders' agreement to
waive the transfer restrictions related to the managing directors who were
profit participating limited partners thereunder and under the plan of
incorporation, could, if exercised, permit these managing directors to sell
significant amounts of common stock at any time following the expiration of the
underwriters' lock-up. See "Risk Factors -- Our Share Price May Decline Due to
the Large Number of Shares Eligible for Future Sale" for a further discussion of
the risks associated with these actions.
 
                            VALIDITY OF COMMON STOCK
 
     The validity of the common stock offered hereby will be passed upon for The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. by Sullivan & Cromwell, New York, New York, and for
the underwriters by Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton, New York, New York.
Certain legal matters will be passed upon for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. by
one of its General Counsel, Robert J. Katz or Gregory K. Palm. Sullivan &
Cromwell has in the past represented, and continues to represent, one or more of
the underwriters and their affiliates in a variety of matters. Cleary, Gottlieb,
Steen & Hamilton has in the past represented, and continues to represent,
Goldman Sachs in a variety of matters.
 
                                    EXPERTS

     The financial statements of Goldman Sachs as of November 28, 1997 and
November 27, 1998 and for each of the three years in the period ended November
27, 1998 included in this prospectus and the financial statement schedule
included in the registration statement have been so included in reliance on the
report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent accountants, given on the
authority of said firm as experts in auditing and accounting.
 
     The historical consolidated income statement data and balance sheet data
set forth in "Selected Consolidated Financial Data" for each of the five years
in the period ended November 27, 1998 included in this prospectus have been so
included in reliance on the report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent
accountants, given on the authority of said firm as experts in auditing and
accounting.
 
     The Pro Forma Consolidated Income Statement Information for the year ended
 
                                       120
<PAGE>   121
 
November 27, 1998 included in this prospectus has been so included in reliance
on the report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent accountants, on their
examination of the Pro Forma Adjustments as described in Note 2 to the Pro Forma
Consolidated Financial Information, and the application of those adjustments to
the historical amounts in the Pro Forma Consolidated Income Statement
Information for the year ended November 27, 1998, given on the authority of said
firm as experts in performing examinations of pro forma financial information in
accordance with standards established by the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants.
 
     The information under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations", except for the (i) information
presented under the headings "VaR" or "VaR Methodology, Assumptions and
Limitations" and (ii) information for the three months ended February 26, 1999
and February 27, 1998, taken as a whole, of Goldman Sachs for the three-year
period ended November 27, 1998 included in this prospectus has been so included
in reliance on the report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent
accountants, given on the authority of said firm as experts in performing
examinations of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and
results of operations in accordance with standards established by the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
 
     With respect to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements
of Goldman Sachs as of and for the three months ended February 26, 1999 and for
the three months ended February 27, 1998, and the unaudited consolidated pro
forma balance sheet information as of February 26, 1999 and the related
unaudited consolidated pro forma income statement information for the three
months then ended, included in this prospectus, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
reported that they have applied limited procedures in accordance with
professional standards for a review of such information. However, their separate
reports dated April 9, 1999 with respect to the unaudited condensed consolidated
financial statements of Goldman Sachs as of and for the three months ended
February 26, 1999 and for the three months ended February 27, 1998, and May 3,
1999 with respect to the unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet
information as of February 26, 1999 and the related unaudited pro forma
consolidated income statement information for the three months then ended,
appearing herein state that they did not audit and they do not express an
opinion on the unaudited historical financial information or the unaudited pro
forma financial information. Accordingly, the degree of reliance on their
reports on such information should be restricted in light of the limited nature
of the review procedures applied. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP is not subject to
the liability provisions of Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933 for their
reports on the unaudited historical financial information and on the unaudited
pro forma financial information because those reports are not a "report" or a
"part" of the registration statement prepared or certified by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP within the meaning of Sections 7 and 11 of the
Securities Act of 1933.
 
     Except as otherwise indicated, all amounts with respect to the volume,
number and market share of mergers and acquisitions and underwriting
transactions and related ranking information included in this prospectus have
been derived from information compiled and classified by Securities Data Company
and have been so included in reliance on Securities Data Company's authority as
experts in compiling and classifying information as to securities transactions.
 
                                       121
<PAGE>   122
 
                             AVAILABLE INFORMATION
 
     Upon the consummation of the offerings, Goldman Sachs will be required to
file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other
information with the SEC. You may read and copy any documents filed by us at the
SEC's public reference room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public
reference room. Our filings with the SEC are also available to the public
through the SEC's Internet site at http://www.sec.gov and through the NYSE, 20
Broad Street, New York, New York 10005, on which our common stock is listed.
After the offerings, we expect to provide annual reports to our shareholders
that include financial information reported on by our independent public
accountants.
 
     We have filed a registration statement on Form S-1 with the SEC. This
prospectus is a part of the registration statement and does not contain all of
the information in the registration statement. Whenever a reference is made in
this prospectus to a contract or other document of Goldman Sachs, please be
aware that such reference is not necessarily complete and that you should refer
to the exhibits that are a part of the registration statement for a copy of the
contract or other document. You may review a copy of the registration statement
at the SEC's public reference room in Washington, D.C., as well as through the
SEC's Internet site.
 
                                       122
<PAGE>   123
 
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              PAGE
                                                              ----
<S>                                                           <C>
Consolidated Financial Statements as of November 27, 1998
  and November 28, 1997 and for the three years in the
  period ended November 27, 1998
Report of Independent Accountants...........................   F-2
Consolidated Statements of Earnings.........................   F-3
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition..............   F-4
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Partners' Capital.....   F-5
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.......................   F-6
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................   F-7
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of February
  26, 1999 and for the three months ended February 26, 1999
  and February 27, 1998 (unaudited)
Review Report of Independent Accountants....................  F-24
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings...............  F-25
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition.....  F-26
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Changes in Partners'
  Capital...................................................  F-27
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.............  F-28
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements........  F-29
</TABLE>
 
                                       F-1
<PAGE>   124
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Partners,
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.:
 
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition
and the related consolidated statements of earnings, changes in partners'
capital and cash flows (included on pages F-3 to F-23 of this prospectus)
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and Subsidiaries (the "Firm") as of November 27,
1998 and November 28, 1997, and the results of their consolidated operations and
their consolidated cash flows for the three years in the period ended November
27, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Firm's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards, which require that we plan and perform
the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
We have also previously audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, the consolidated statements of financial condition as of November 29,
1996, November 24, 1995 and November 25, 1994, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, changes in partners' capital and cash flows for the
years ended November 24, 1995 and November 25, 1994 (none of which are presented
herein); and we expressed unqualified opinions on those consolidated financial
statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the selected historical
consolidated income statement and balance sheet data for each of the five years
in the period ended November 27, 1998 (included on pages 34 and 35 of this
prospectus) is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the
consolidated financial statements from which it has been derived.
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
New York, New York
January 22, 1999.
 
                                       F-2
<PAGE>   125
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                            -----------------------------------
                                                             1996          1997          1998
                                                             ----          ----          ----
                                                                       (in millions)
<S>                                                         <C>        <C>              <C>
REVENUES:
Investment banking........................................  $ 2,113       $ 2,587       $ 3,368
Trading and principal investments.........................    2,496         2,303         2,015
Asset management and securities services..................      981         1,456         2,085
Interest income...........................................   11,699        14,087        15,010
                                                            -------       -------       -------
          Total revenues..................................   17,289        20,433        22,478
Interest expense, principally on short-term funding.......   11,160        12,986        13,958
                                                            -------       -------       -------
          Revenues, net of interest expense...............    6,129         7,447         8,520
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Compensation and benefits.................................    2,421         3,097         3,838
Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees.....................      278           357           424
Market development........................................      137           206           287
Communications and technology.............................      173           208           265
Depreciation and amortization.............................      172           178           242
Occupancy.................................................      154           168           207
Professional services and other...........................      188           219           336
                                                            -------       -------       -------
          Total operating expenses........................    3,523         4,433         5,599
Pre-tax earnings..........................................    2,606         3,014         2,921
Provision for taxes.......................................      207           268           493
                                                            -------       -------       -------
Net earnings..............................................  $ 2,399       $ 2,746       $ 2,428
                                                            =======       =======       =======
</TABLE>
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
                                       F-3
<PAGE>   126
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                              --------------------
                                                                1997        1998
                                                                ----        ----
                                                                 (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
ASSETS:
Cash and cash equivalents...................................  $  1,328    $  2,836
Cash and securities segregated in compliance with U.S.
  federal and other regulations (principally U.S. government
  obligations)..............................................     4,903       7,887
Receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing
  organizations.............................................     3,754       4,321
Receivables from customers and counterparties...............    10,060      14,953
Securities borrowed.........................................    51,058      69,158
Securities purchased under agreements to resell.............    39,376      37,484
Right to receive securities.................................        --       7,564
Financial instruments owned, at fair value:
  Commercial paper, certificates of deposit and time
     deposits...............................................     1,477       1,382
  U.S. government, federal agency and sovereign
     obligations............................................    25,736      24,789
  Corporate debt............................................    11,321      10,744
  Equities and convertible debentures.......................    11,870      11,066
  State, municipal and provincial obligations...............     1,105         918
  Derivative contracts......................................    13,788      21,299
  Physical commodities......................................     1,092         481
Other assets................................................     1,533       2,498
                                                              --------    --------
                                                              $178,401    $217,380
                                                              ========    ========
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH:
Short-term borrowings, including commercial paper...........  $ 21,008    $ 27,430
Payables to brokers, dealers and clearing organizations.....       952         730
Payables to customers and counterparties....................    22,995      36,179
Securities loaned...........................................    17,627      21,117
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase..............    44,057      36,257
Obligation to return securities.............................        --       9,783
Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair
  value:
  U.S. government, federal agency and sovereign
     obligations............................................    22,371      22,360
  Corporate debt............................................     1,708       1,441
  Equities and convertible debentures.......................     6,357       6,406
  Derivative contracts......................................    15,964      24,722
  Physical commodities......................................        78         966
Other liabilities and accrued expenses......................     3,080       3,699
Long-term borrowings........................................    15,667      19,906
                                                              --------    --------
                                                               171,864     210,996
Commitments and contingencies
Partners' capital allocated for income taxes and potential
  withdrawals...............................................       430          74
Partners' capital...........................................     6,107       6,310
                                                              --------    --------
                                                              $178,401    $217,380
                                                              ========    ========
</TABLE>
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
                                       F-4
<PAGE>   127
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN PARTNERS' CAPITAL
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                              -----------------------------
                                                               1996       1997       1998
                                                               ----       ----       ----
                                                                      (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
Partners' capital, beginning of year........................  $ 4,905    $ 5,309    $ 6,107
Additions:
  Net earnings..............................................    2,399      2,746      2,428
  Capital contributions.....................................        4         89          9
                                                              -------    -------    -------
          Total additions...................................    2,403      2,835      2,437
Deductions:
  Returns on capital and certain distributions to
     partners...............................................     (473)      (557)      (619)
  Termination of the Profit Participation Plans.............       --         --       (368)
  Transfers to partners' capital allocated for income taxes
     and potential withdrawals, net.........................   (1,526)    (1,480)    (1,247)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
          Total deductions..................................   (1,999)    (2,037)    (2,234)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Partners' capital, end of year..............................  $ 5,309    $ 6,107    $ 6,310
                                                              =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
                                       F-5
<PAGE>   128
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                              -------------------------------
                                                                1996       1997        1998
                                                                ----       ----        ----
                                                                       (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>        <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net earnings..............................................  $  2,399    $ 2,746    $  2,428
  Non-cash items included in net earnings:
    Depreciation and amortization...........................       172        178         242
    Deferred income taxes...................................        85         32          23
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
    Cash and securities segregated in compliance with U.S.
     federal and other regulations..........................    (1,445)      (670)     (2,984)
    Net receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing
     organizations..........................................       169     (1,599)       (789)
    Net payables to customers and counterparties............     4,279      2,339       8,116
    Securities borrowed, net................................   (17,075)    (8,124)    (14,610)
    Financial instruments owned, at fair value..............    (9,415)    (7,439)        148
    Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at
     fair value.............................................     5,276     11,702       7,559
    Other, net..............................................       926        905         (71)
                                                              --------    -------    --------
      Net cash (used for)/provided by operating
       activities...........................................   (14,629)        70          62
                                                              --------    -------    --------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Property, leasehold improvements and equipment............      (258)      (259)       (476)
  Financial instruments owned, at fair value................       115       (360)       (180)
  Acquisitions, net of cash acquired........................       (75)       (74)         --
                                                              --------    -------    --------
      Net cash used for investing activities................      (218)      (693)       (656)
                                                              --------    -------    --------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Short-term borrowings, net................................       391      1,082       2,193
  Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, net.......    16,012     (4,717)     (5,909)
  Issuance of long-term borrowings..........................     5,172      7,734      10,527
  Repayment of long-term borrowings.........................    (3,986)    (1,855)     (2,058)
  Capital contributions.....................................         4         89           9
  Returns on capital and certain distributions to
    partners................................................      (473)      (557)       (619)
  Termination of the Profit Participation Plans.............        --         --        (368)
  Partners' capital allocated for income taxes and potential
    withdrawals.............................................    (1,017)    (2,034)     (1,673)
                                                              --------    -------    --------
      Net cash provided by/(used for) financing
       activities...........................................    16,103       (258)      2,102
                                                              --------    -------    --------
  Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents......     1,256       (881)      1,508
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year................       953      2,209       1,328
                                                              --------    -------    --------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year......................  $  2,209    $ 1,328    $  2,836
                                                              ========    =======    ========
</TABLE>
 
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:
 
Cash payments for interest approximated the related expense for each of the
fiscal periods presented. Payments of income taxes were not material.
 
A zero coupon bond of $32 million representing a portion of the acquisition
price of CIN Management Limited was recorded on the consolidated statement of
financial condition as of November 1996 and was excluded from the consolidated
statement of cash flows as it represented a non-cash item.
 
An increase in total assets and liabilities of $11.64 billion related to the
provisions of SFAS No. 125 that were deferred under SFAS No. 127 was excluded
from the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended November 1998
as it represented a non-cash item.
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
                                       F-6
<PAGE>   129
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1.  DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("Group
L.P."), together with its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, the "Firm"),
is a global investment banking and securities firm that provides a wide range of
services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base.
 
     The Firm's activities are divided into three principal business lines:
 
     - Investment Banking, which includes financial advisory services and
       underwriting;
 
     - Trading and Principal Investments, which includes fixed income, currency
       and commodities ("FICC"), equities and principal investments (principal
       investments reflect primarily the Firm's investments in its merchant
       banking funds); and
 
     - Asset Management and Securities Services, which includes asset
       management, securities services and commissions.
 
NOTE 2.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Group L.P.
and its U.S. and international subsidiaries including Goldman, Sachs & Co.
("GS&Co.") and J. Aron & Company in New York, Goldman Sachs International
("GSI") in London and Goldman Sachs (Japan) Ltd. ("GSJL") in Tokyo. Certain
reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current
presentation.
 
     These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles that require management to make
estimates and assumptions regarding trading inventory valuations, partner
retirements, the outcome of pending litigation and other matters that affect the
consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. These estimates and
assumptions are based on judgment and available information and, consequently,
actual results could be materially different from these estimates.
 
     Unless otherwise stated herein, all references to 1996, 1997 and 1998 refer
to the Firm's fiscal year ended, or the date, as the context requires, November
29, 1996, November 28, 1997 and November 27, 1998, respectively.
 
  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
     The Firm defines cash equivalents as highly liquid overnight deposits held
in the ordinary course of business.
 
  REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS AND COLLATERALIZED FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
 
     Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under
agreements to repurchase, principally U.S. government, federal agency and
investment-grade foreign sovereign obligations, represent short-term
collateralized financing transactions and are carried at their contractual
amounts plus accrued interest. These amounts are presented on a net-by-
counterparty basis, where management believes a legal right of setoff exists
under an enforceable master netting agreement. The Firm takes possession of
securities purchased under agreements to resell, monitors the market value of
the underlying securities on a daily basis and obtains additional collateral as
appropriate.
 
                                       F-7
<PAGE>   130
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Securities borrowed and loaned are recorded on the statements of financial
condition based on the amount of cash collateral advanced or received. These
transactions are generally collateralized by either cash, securities or letters
of credit. The Firm takes possession of securities borrowed, monitors the market
value of securities loaned and obtains additional collateral as appropriate.
Income or expense is recognized as interest over the life of the transaction.
 
  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     Gains and losses on financial instruments and commission income and related
expenses are recorded on a trade date basis in the consolidated statements of
earnings. For purposes of the consolidated statements of financial condition
only, purchases and sales of financial instruments, including agency
transactions, are generally recorded on a settlement date basis. Recording such
transactions on a trade date basis would not result in a material adjustment to
the consolidated statements of financial condition.
 
     Substantially all financial instruments used in the Firm's trading and
non-trading activities are carried at fair value or amounts that approximate
fair value and unrealized gains and losses are recognized in earnings. Fair
value is based generally on listed market prices or broker or dealer price
quotations. To the extent that prices are not readily available, fair value is
based on either internal valuation models or management's estimate of amounts
that could be realized under current market conditions, assuming an orderly
liquidation over a reasonable period of time. Certain over-the-counter ("OTC")
derivative instruments are valued using pricing models that consider, among
other factors, current and contractual market prices, time value, and yield
curve and/or volatility factors of the underlying positions. The fair value of
the Firm's trading and non-trading assets and liabilities is discussed further
in Notes 3, 4 and 5.
 
  PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS
 
     Principal investments are carried at fair value, generally as evidenced by
quoted market prices or by comparable substantial third-party transactions.
Where fair value is not readily ascertainable, principal investments are
recorded at cost or management's estimate of the realizable value.
 
     The Firm is entitled to receive merchant banking overrides (i.e., an
increased share of a fund's income and gains) when the return on the fund's
investments exceeds certain threshold returns. Overrides are based on investment
performance over the life of each merchant banking fund, and future investment
underperformance may require amounts previously distributed to the Firm to be
returned to the funds. Accordingly, overrides are recognized in earnings only
when management determines that the probability of return is remote. Overrides
are included in "Asset Management and Securities Services" on the consolidated
statements of earnings.
 
  DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS
 
     Derivatives used for trading purposes are reported at fair value and are
included in "Derivative contracts" on the consolidated statements of financial
condition. Gains and losses on derivatives used for trading purposes are
included in "Trading and Principal Investments" on the consolidated statements
of earnings.
 
     Derivatives used for non-trading purposes include interest rate futures
contracts and interest rate and currency swap agreements, which are primarily
utilized to convert a substantial portion of the Firm's fixed rate debt into
U.S. dollar-based floating rate obligations. Gains and losses on
 
                                       F-8
<PAGE>   131
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
these transactions are generally deferred and recognized as adjustments to
interest expense over the life of the derivative contract. Gains and losses
resulting from the early termination of derivatives used for non-trading
purposes are generally deferred and recognized over the remaining life of the
underlying debt. If the underlying debt is terminated prior to its stated
maturity, gains and losses on these transactions, including the associated
hedges, are recognized in earnings immediately.
 
     Derivatives are reported on a net-by-counterparty basis on the consolidated
statements of financial condition where management believes a legal right of
setoff exists under an enforceable master netting agreement.
 
  PROPERTY, LEASEHOLD IMPROVEMENTS AND EQUIPMENT
 
     Depreciation and amortization generally are computed using accelerated cost
recovery methods for all property and equipment and for leasehold improvements
where the term of the lease is greater than the economic useful life of the
asset. All other leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis
over the term of the lease.
 
  GOODWILL
 
     The cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair value of net assets
acquired at acquisition date is recorded as goodwill and amortized over periods
of 15 to 25 years on a straight-line basis.
 
  PROVISION FOR TAXES
 
     The Firm accounts for income taxes incurred by its corporate subsidiaries
in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 109,
"Accounting for Income Taxes". The consolidated statements of earnings for the
periods presented include a provision for, or benefit from, income taxes on
income earned, or losses incurred, by Group L.P. and its subsidiaries including
a provision for, or benefit from, unincorporated business tax on income earned,
or losses incurred, by Group L.P. and its subsidiaries conducting business in
New York City. No additional income tax provision is required in the
consolidated statements of earnings because Group L.P. is a partnership and the
remaining tax effects accrue directly to its partners.
 
  FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
 
     Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional currency is other
than the U.S. dollar are translated using currency exchange rates prevailing at
the end of the period presented, while revenues and expenses are translated
using average exchange rates during the period. Gains or losses resulting from
the translation of foreign currency financial statements are recorded as
cumulative translation adjustments, and are included as a component of
"Partners' capital allocated for income taxes and potential withdrawals" on the
consolidated statements of financial condition. Gains or losses resulting from
foreign exchange transactions are recorded in earnings.
 
  INVESTMENT BANKING
 
     Underwriting revenues and fees from mergers and acquisitions and other
corporate finance advisory assignments are recorded when the underlying
transaction is completed under the terms of the engagement. Syndicate expenses
related to securities offerings in which the Firm acts as an underwriter or
agent are deferred until the related revenue is recognized.
 
                                       F-9
<PAGE>   132
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS
 
     In June 1996, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS
No. 125, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
Extinguishments of Liabilities", effective for transactions occurring after
December 31, 1996. SFAS No. 125 establishes standards for distinguishing
transfers of financial assets that are accounted for as sales from transfers
that are accounted for as secured borrowings.
 
     The provisions of SFAS No. 125 relating to repurchase agreements,
securities lending transactions and other similar transactions were deferred by
the provisions of SFAS No. 127, "Deferral of the Effective Date of Certain
Provisions of FASB Statement No. 125", and became effective for transactions
entered into after December 31, 1997. This Statement requires that the
collateral obtained in certain types of secured lending transactions be recorded
on the balance sheet with a corresponding liability reflecting the obligation to
return such collateral to its owner. Effective January 1, 1998, the Firm adopted
the provisions of SFAS No. 125 that were deferred by SFAS No. 127. The adoption
of this standard increased the Firm's total assets and liabilities by $11.64
billion as of November 1998.
 
     In February 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 128, "Earnings Per Share"
("EPS"), effective for periods ending after December 15, 1997, with restatement
required for all prior periods. SFAS No. 128 establishes new standards for
computing and presenting EPS. This Statement replaces primary and fully diluted
EPS with "basic EPS", which excludes dilution, and "diluted EPS", which includes
the effect of all potentially dilutive common shares and other dilutive
securities. Because the Firm has not historically reported EPS, this Statement
will have no impact on the Firm's historical financial statements. This
Statement will, however, apply to financial statements of the Firm prepared
after the offerings.
 
     In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive
Income", effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1997, with
reclassification of earlier periods required for comparative purposes. SFAS No.
130 establishes standards for the reporting and presentation of comprehensive
income and its components in the financial statements. The Firm intends to adopt
this standard in the first quarter of fiscal 1999. This Statement is limited to
issues of reporting and presentation and, therefore, will not affect the Firm's
results of operations or financial condition.
 
     In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of
an Enterprise and Related Information", effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 1997, with reclassification of earlier periods required for
comparative purposes. SFAS No. 131 establishes the criteria for determining an
operating segment and establishes the disclosure requirements for reporting
information about operating segments. The Firm intends to adopt this standard at
the end of fiscal 1999. This Statement is limited to issues of reporting and
presentation and, therefore, will not affect the Firm's results of operations or
financial condition.
 
     In February 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 132, "Employers' Disclosures
about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits", effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1997, with restatement of disclosures for earlier
periods required for comparative purposes. SFAS No. 132 revises certain
employers' disclosures about pension and other post-retirement benefit plans.
The Firm intends to adopt this standard at the end of fiscal 1999. This
Statement is limited to issues of reporting and presentation and, therefore,
will not affect the Firm's results of operations or financial condition.
 
     In March 1998, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of Position ("SOP")
No. 98-1, "Accounting for
                                      F-10
<PAGE>   133
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use",
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1998. SOP No. 98-1
requires that certain costs of computer software developed or obtained for
internal use be capitalized and amortized over the useful life of the related
software. The Firm currently expenses the cost of all software development in
the period in which it is incurred. The Firm intends to adopt this Statement in
fiscal 2000 and is currently assessing its effect.
 
     In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities", effective for fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 1999. SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for
derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts (collectively referred to as derivatives), and for hedging
activities. This Statement requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as
either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial condition and measure
those instruments at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of
a derivative instrument depends on its intended use and the resulting
designation. The Firm intends to adopt this standard in fiscal 2000 and is
currently assessing its effect.
 
NOTE 3.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     Financial instruments, including both cash instruments and derivatives, are
used to manage market risk, facilitate customer transactions, engage in trading
transactions and meet financing objectives. These instruments can be either
executed on an exchange or negotiated in the OTC market.
 
     Transactions involving financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased,
entail an obligation to purchase a financial instrument at a future date. The
Firm may incur a loss if the market value of the financial instrument
subsequently increases prior to the purchase of the instrument.
 
  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     Substantially all of the Firm's assets and liabilities are carried at fair
value or amounts that approximate fair value.
 
     Trading assets and liabilities, including derivative contracts used for
trading purposes, are carried at fair value and reported as financial
instruments owned and financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased on the
consolidated statements of financial condition. Non-trading assets and
liabilities are carried at fair value or amounts that approximate fair value.
 
     Non-trading assets include cash and cash equivalents, cash and securities
segregated in compliance with U.S. federal and other regulations, receivables
from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, receivables from customers and
counterparties, securities borrowed, securities purchased under agreements to
resell, right to receive securities and certain investments, primarily those
made in connection with the Firm's merchant banking activities.
 
     Non-trading liabilities include short-term borrowings, payables to brokers,
dealers and clearing organizations, payables to customers and counterparties,
securities loaned, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, obligation to
return securities, other liabilities and accrued expenses and long-term
borrowings. Fair value of the Firm's long-term borrowings and associated hedges
is discussed in Note 5.
 
                                      F-11
<PAGE>   134
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  TRADING AND PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS
 
     The Firm's Trading and Principal Investments business facilitates customer
transactions and takes proprietary positions through market-making in and
trading of securities, currencies, commodities and swaps and other derivatives.
Derivative financial instruments are often used to hedge cash instruments or
other derivative financial instruments as an integral part of the Firm's
strategies. As a result, it is necessary to view the results of any activity on
a fully-integrated basis, including cash positions, the effect of related
derivatives and the financing of the underlying positions.
 
     Net revenues represent total revenues less allocations of interest expense
to specific securities, commodities and other positions in relation to the level
of financing incurred by each. The following table sets forth the net revenues
of the Firm's Trading and Principal Investments business:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                         --------------------------
                                                          1996      1997      1998
                                                          ----      ----      ----
                                                               (in millions)
<S>                                                      <C>       <C>       <C>
FICC...................................................  $1,749    $2,055    $1,438
Equities...............................................     730       573       795
Principal investments..................................     214       298       146
                                                         ------    ------    ------
Total Trading and Principal Investments................  $2,693    $2,926    $2,379
                                                         ======    ======    ======
</TABLE>
 
  RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     The Firm seeks to monitor and control its risk exposure through a variety
of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational and legal reporting
systems for individual entities and the Firm as a whole. Management believes
that it has effective procedures for evaluating and managing the market, credit
and other risks to which it is exposed. The Management Committee, the Firm's
primary decision-making body, determines (both directly and through delegated
authority) the types of business in which the Firm engages, approves guidelines
for accepting customers for all product lines, outlines the terms under which
customer business is conducted and establishes the parameters for the risks that
the Firm is willing to undertake in its business.
 
     MARKET RISK.  The Firmwide Risk Committee, which reports to senior
management and meets weekly, is responsible for managing and monitoring all of
the Firm's risk exposures. In addition, the Firm maintains segregation of
duties, with credit review and risk-monitoring functions performed by groups
that are independent from revenue-producing departments.
 
     The potential for changes in the market value of the Firm's trading
positions is referred to as "market risk". The Firm's trading positions result
from underwriting, market-making and proprietary trading activities.
 
     The broadly defined categories of market risk include exposures to interest
rates, currency rates, equity prices and commodity prices.
 
- - Interest rate risks primarily result from exposures to changes in the level,
  slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates,
  mortgage prepayment speeds and credit spreads.
 
- - Currency rate risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward
  prices and volatilities of currency rates.
 
                                      F-12
<PAGE>   135
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
- - Equity price risks result from exposures to changes in prices and volatilities
  of individual equities, equity baskets and equity indices.
 
- - Commodity price risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward
  prices and volatilities of commodities, such as electricity, natural gas,
  crude oil, petroleum products and precious and base metals.
 
     These risk exposures are managed through diversification, by controlling
position sizes and by establishing offsetting hedges in related securities or
derivatives. For example, the Firm may hedge a portfolio of common stock by
taking an offsetting position in a related equity-index futures contract. The
ability to manage these exposures may, however, be limited by adverse changes in
the liquidity of the security or the related hedge instrument and in the
correlation of price movements between the security and the related hedge
instrument.
 
     CREDIT RISK.  Credit risk represents the loss that the Firm would incur if
a counterparty or issuer of securities or other instruments it holds fails to
perform its contractual obligations to the Firm. To reduce its credit exposures,
the Firm seeks to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit
the Firm to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. The Firm
does not take into account any such agreements when calculating credit risk,
however, unless management believes a legal right of setoff exists under an
enforceable master netting agreement.
 
     Credit concentrations may arise from trading, underwriting and securities
borrowing activities and may be impacted by changes in economic, industry or
political factors. The Firm's concentration of credit risk is monitored actively
by the Credit Policy Committee. As of November 1998, U.S. government and federal
agency obligations represented 7% of the Firm's total assets. In addition, most
of the Firm's securities purchased under agreements to resell are collateralized
by U.S. government, federal agency and sovereign obligations.
 
  DERIVATIVE ACTIVITIES
 
     Most of the Firm's derivative transactions are entered into for trading
purposes. The Firm uses derivatives in its trading activities to facilitate
customer transactions, to take proprietary positions and as a means of risk
management. The Firm also enters into non-trading derivative contracts to manage
the interest rate and currency exposure on its long-term borrowings. Non-
trading derivatives related to the Firm's long-term borrowings are discussed in
Note 5.
 
     Derivative contracts are financial instruments, such as futures, forwards,
swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from underlying assets,
indices, reference rates or a combination of these factors. Derivatives may
involve future commitments to purchase or sell financial instruments or
commodities, or to exchange currency or interest payment streams. The amounts
exchanged are based on the specific terms of the contract with reference to
specified rates, securities, commodities or indices.
 
     Derivative contracts exclude certain cash instruments, such as
mortgage-backed securities, interest-only and principal-only obligations and
indexed debt instruments, that derive their values or contractually required
cash flows from the price of some other security or index. Derivatives also
exclude option features that are embedded in cash instruments, such as the
conversion features and call provisions embedded in bonds. The Firm has elected
to include commodity-related contracts in its derivative disclosure, although
not required to do so, as these contracts may be settled in cash or are readily
convertible into cash.
 
                                      F-13
<PAGE>   136
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The gross notional (or contractual) amounts of derivative financial
instruments represent the volume of these transactions and not the amounts
potentially subject to market risk. In addition, measurement of market risk is
meaningful only when all related and offsetting transactions are taken into
consideration. Gross notional (or contractual) amounts of derivative financial
instruments used for trading purposes with off-balance-sheet market risk are set
forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                             ----------------------
                                                               1997         1998
                                                               ----         ----
                                                                 (in millions)
<S>                                                          <C>         <C>
INTEREST RATE RISK:
Financial futures and forward settlement contracts.........  $334,916    $  406,302
Swap agreements............................................   918,067     1,848,977
Written option contracts...................................   351,359       423,561
 
EQUITY PRICE RISK:
Financial futures and forward settlement contracts.........     7,457         7,405
Swap agreements............................................     1,993         2,752
Written option contracts...................................    51,916        54,856
 
CURRENCY AND COMMODITY PRICE RISK:
Financial futures and forward settlement contracts.........   355,882       420,138
Swap agreements............................................    32,355        51,502
Written option contracts...................................   179,481       183,929
</TABLE>
 
     Market risk on purchased option contracts is limited to the market value of
the option; therefore, purchased option contracts have no off-balance-sheet
market risk. The gross notional (or contractual) amounts of purchased option
contracts used for trading purposes are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                              --------------------
                                                                1997        1998
                                                                ----        ----
                                                                 (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
PURCHASED OPTION CONTRACTS:
Interest rate...............................................  $301,685    $509,770
Equity......................................................    24,021      59,571
Currency and commodity......................................   180,859     186,748
</TABLE>
 
     The Firm utilizes replacement cost as its measure of derivative credit
risk. Replacement cost, as reported in financial instruments owned, at fair
value on the consolidated statements of financial condition, represents amounts
receivable from various counterparties, net of any unrealized losses owed where
management believes a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable master
netting agreement. Replacement cost for purchased option contracts is the market
value of the contract. The Firm controls its credit risk through an established
credit approval process, by monitoring counterparty limits, obtaining collateral
where appropriate and, in some cases, using legally enforceable master netting
agreements.
 
                                      F-14
<PAGE>   137
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The fair value of derivative financial instruments used for trading
purposes, computed in accordance with the Firm's netting policy, is set forth
below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                           ------------------------------------------------
                                                                    1997                      1998
                                                           ----------------------    ----------------------
                                                           ASSETS     LIABILITIES    ASSETS     LIABILITIES
                                                           -------    -----------    -------    -----------
                                                                            (in millions)
<S>                                                        <C>        <C>            <C>        <C>
PERIOD END:
Forward settlement contracts.............................  $ 3,634      $ 3,436      $ 4,061      $ 4,201
Swap agreements..........................................    4,269        5,358       10,000       11,475
Option contracts.........................................    5,787        7,166        7,140        9,038
                                                           -------      -------      -------      -------
Total....................................................  $13,690      $15,960      $21,201      $24,714
                                                           =======      =======      =======      =======
MONTHLY AVERAGE:
Forward settlement contracts.............................  $ 3,351      $ 3,162      $ 4,326      $ 3,979
Swap agreements..........................................    3,397        4,020        7,340        8,158
Option contracts.........................................    4,511        5,059        6,696        8,958
                                                           -------      -------      -------      -------
Total....................................................  $11,259      $12,241      $18,362      $21,095
                                                           =======      =======      =======      =======
</TABLE>
 
NOTE 4.  SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
 
     The Firm obtains secured short-term financing principally through the use
of repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements, collateralized
mainly by U.S. government, federal agency, investment grade foreign sovereign
obligations and equity securities. The Firm obtains unsecured short-term
borrowings through issuance of commercial paper, promissory notes and bank
loans. The carrying value of these short-term obligations approximates fair
value due to their short-term nature.
 
     Short-term borrowings are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                         ------------------
                                                          1997       1998
                                                          ----       ----
                                                           (in millions)
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>
Commercial paper.......................................  $ 4,468    $10,008
Promissory notes(1)....................................   10,411     10,763
Bank loans and other(1)................................    6,129      6,659
                                                         -------    -------
Total(2)...............................................  $21,008    $27,430
                                                         =======    =======
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) As of November 1997 and November 1998, short-term borrowings included $2,454
    million and $2,955 million of long-term borrowings maturing within one year,
    respectively.
 
(2) Weighted average interest rates for total short-term borrowings, including
    commercial paper, were 5.43 % as of November 1997 and 5.19% as of November
    1998.
 
     The Firm maintains unencumbered securities with a market value in excess of
all uncollateralized short-term borrowings.
 
                                      F-15
<PAGE>   138
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 5.  LONG-TERM BORROWINGS
 
     The Firm's long-term borrowings are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                         -------------------
                                                           1997       1998
                                                           ----       ----
                                                            (in millions)
<S>                                                      <C>         <C>
Fixed-rate obligations(1)
  U.S. dollar denominated..............................  $ 5,217     $ 5,260
  Non-U.S. dollar denominated..........................    1,556       2,066
Floating-rate obligations(2)
  U.S. dollar denominated..............................    8,342      11,858
  Non-U.S. dollar denominated..........................      552         722
                                                         -------     -------
Total long-term borrowings(3)..........................  $15,667     $19,906
                                                         =======     =======
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Interest rate ranges for U.S. dollar and non-U.S. dollar fixed rate
    obligations are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   AS OF
                                                                 NOVEMBER
                                                              ---------------
                                                               1997     1998
                                                               ----     ----
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>
U.S. dollar denominated
  High......................................................   10.10%   10.10%
  Low.......................................................    5.82     5.74
Non-U.S. dollar denominated
  High......................................................    9.51     9.51
  Low.......................................................    1.90     1.90
</TABLE>
 
(2) Floating interest rates generally are based on LIBOR, the U.S. treasury bill
    rate or the federal funds rate. Certain equity-linked and indexed
    instruments are included in floating rate obligations.
(3) Long-term borrowings bear fixed or floating interest rates and have
    maturities that range from 1 to 30 years from the date of issue.
 
     Long-term borrowings by maturity date are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                            AS OF NOVEMBER 1997               AS OF NOVEMBER 1998
                       ------------------------------    ------------------------------
                        U.S.      NON-U.S.                U.S.      NON-U.S.
                       DOLLAR      DOLLAR      TOTAL     DOLLAR      DOLLAR      TOTAL
                       ------     --------     -----     ------     --------     -----
                                                (in millions)
<S>                    <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>
MATURITY DATES:
1998.................  $ 1,159     $  135     $ 1,294    $    --     $   --     $    --
1999.................    2,436        451       2,887      2,443        199       2,642
2000.................    2,544        263       2,807      4,293        272       4,565
2001.................      971        142       1,113      2,261        148       2,409
2002.................    1,376        281       1,657      1,669        265       1,934
2003.................      941        109       1,050      1,409        412       1,821
2004-24..............    4,132        727       4,859      5,043      1,492       6,535
                       -------     ------     -------    -------     ------     -------
Total................  $13,559     $2,108     $15,667    $17,118     $2,788     $19,906
                       =======     ======     =======    =======     ======     =======
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-16
<PAGE>   139
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The Firm enters into non-trading derivative contracts, such as interest
rate and currency swap agreements, to effectively convert a substantial portion
of its fixed rate long-term borrowings into U.S. dollar-based floating rate
obligations. Accordingly, the aggregate carrying value of these long-term
borrowings and related hedges approximates fair value. The effective weighted
average interest rates for long-term borrowings, after hedging activities, are
set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             AS OF              AS OF
                                         NOVEMBER 1997      NOVEMBER 1998
                                        ---------------    ----------------
                                        AMOUNT     RATE    AMOUNT     RATE
                                        ------     ----    ------     ----
                                                  ($ in millions)
<S>                                     <C>        <C>     <C>        <C>
Long-term borrowings:
Fixed-rate obligations................  $   291    7.76%   $   222     8.09%
Floating-rate obligations.............   15,376    5.84     19,684     5.63
                                        -------            -------
          Total long-term
            borrowings................  $15,667    5.88    $19,906     5.66
                                        =======            =======
</TABLE>
 
     The notional amounts, fair value and carrying value of the related swap
agreements used for non-trading purposes are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                           --------------
                                                           1997       1998
                                                           ----       ----
                                                            (in millions)
<S>                                                      <C>         <C>
Notional amount........................................   $8,708     $10,206
</TABLE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      AS OF NOVEMBER
                                      -----------------------------------------------
                                               1997                     1998
                                      ----------------------    ---------------------
                                      ASSETS     LIABILITIES    ASSETS    LIABILITIES
                                      ------     -----------    ------    -----------
                                                       (in millions)
<S>                                   <C>        <C>            <C>       <C>
Fair value..........................   $212          $4          $519         $7
Carrying value......................     98           4            98          8
</TABLE>
 
NOTE 6.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
  LITIGATION
 
     The Firm is involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and arbitration
proceedings concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of its
businesses. Management believes, based on currently available information, that
the results of such proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material
adverse effect on the Firm's financial condition, but might be material to the
Firm's operating results for any particular period, depending, in part, upon the
operating results for such period.
 
  LEASES
 
     The Firm has obligations under long-term non-cancelable lease agreements,
principally for office space, expiring on various dates through 2016. Certain
agreements are subject to periodic escalation charges for increases in real
estate taxes and other charges. Minimum rental commitments, net of minimum
sublease rentals, under non-cancelable leases for 1999 and the
 
                                      F-17
<PAGE>   140
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
succeeding four years and rent charged to operating expense for the last three
years are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  (in millions)
<S>                                               <C>
MINIMUM RENTAL COMMITMENTS:
1999..........................................       $  142
2000..........................................          139
2001..........................................          139
2002..........................................          136
2003..........................................          128
Thereafter....................................          860
                                                     ------
          Total...............................       $1,544
                                                     ======
 
NET RENT EXPENSE:
1996..........................................       $   83
1997..........................................           87
1998..........................................          104
</TABLE>
 
  OTHER COMMITMENTS
 
     The Firm acts as an investor in merchant banking transactions which
includes making long-term investments in equity and debt securities in privately
negotiated transactions, corporate acquisitions and real estate transactions,
and in connection with a bridge loan fund. In connection with these activities,
the Firm had commitments to invest up to $670 million and $1.39 billion in
corporate and real estate merchant banking investment and bridge loan funds as
of November 1997 and November 1998, respectively.
 
     In connection with loan origination and participation, the Firm had loan
commitments of $5.23 billion and $1.51 billion as of November 1997 and November
1998, respectively. These commitments are agreements to lend to counterparties,
have fixed termination dates and are contingent on all conditions to borrowing
set forth in the contract having been met. Since these commitments may expire
unused, the total commitment amount does not necessarily reflect the actual
future cash flow requirements.
 
     The Firm also had outstanding guarantees of $786 million and $790 million
relating to its fund management activities as of November 1997 and November
1998, respectively.
 
     The Firm had pledged securities of $23.60 billion and $22.88 billion as
collateral for securities borrowed of approximately equivalent value as of
November 1997 and November 1998, respectively.
 
     The Firm obtains letters of credit issued to counterparties by various
banks that are used in lieu of securities or cash to satisfy various collateral
and margin deposit requirements. Letters of credit outstanding were $10.13
billion and $8.81 billion as of November 1997 and November 1998, respectively.
 
NOTE 7.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
 
     The Firm sponsors various pension plans and certain other post-retirement
benefit plans, primarily health care and life insurance, which cover most
employees worldwide. The Firm also provides certain benefits to former or
inactive employees prior to retirement. Plan benefits are primarily based on the
employee's compensation and years of service. Pension costs are
 
                                      F-18
<PAGE>   141
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
determined actuarially and are funded in accordance with the Internal Revenue
Code. Plan assets are held in a trust and consist primarily of listed stocks and
U.S. bonds. A summary of these plans is set forth below:
 
  DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS
 
     The components of pension expense/(income) are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                              --------------------
                                                              1996    1997    1998
                                                              ----    ----    ----
                                                                 (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>     <C>     <C>
Service cost, benefits earned during the period.............  $ 15    $ 15    $ 14
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation...............     8      10      11
Return on plan assets.......................................   (24)    (18)    (14)
Net amortization............................................    14       4      (1)
                                                              ----    ----    ----
          Total pension expense.............................  $ 13    $ 11    $ 10
                                                              ====    ====    ====
U.S. plans..................................................  $ (1)   $ (3)   $ (3)
International plans.........................................    14      14      13
                                                              ----    ----    ----
          Total pension expense.............................  $ 13    $ 11    $ 10
                                                              ====    ====    ====
</TABLE>
 
     The weighted average assumptions used to develop net periodic pension cost
and the actuarial present value of the projected benefit obligation are set
forth below. The assumptions represent a weighted average of the assumptions
used for the U.S. and international plans and are based on the economic
environment of each applicable country.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                              --------------------
                                                              1996    1997    1998
                                                              ----    ----    ----
<S>                                                           <C>     <C>     <C>
U.S. PLANS:
Discount rate...............................................  7.50%   7.50%   7.00%
Rate of increase in future compensation levels..............  5.00    5.00    5.00
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets............  7.50    7.50    7.50
INTERNATIONAL PLANS:
Discount rate...............................................  5.70    5.70    5.00
Rate of increase in future compensation levels..............  5.30    5.30    4.75
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets............  7.00    7.00    6.00
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-19
<PAGE>   142
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The funded status of the qualified plans is set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                YEAR ENDED
                                                                 NOVEMBER
                                                              --------------
                                                              1997     1998
                                                              ----     ----
                                                              (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>      <C>
Actuarial present value of vested benefit obligation........  $(149)   $(203)
                                                              -----    -----
Accumulated benefit obligation..............................   (151)    (207)
Effect of future salary increases...........................    (16)     (21)
                                                              -----    -----
Projected benefit obligation................................   (167)    (228)
Plan assets at fair market value............................    187      208
                                                              -----    -----
Projected benefit obligation less than/(greater than) plan
  assets....................................................     20      (20)
Unrecognized net loss.......................................      2       43
Unrecognized net transition gain............................    (20)     (18)
                                                              -----    -----
Prepaid pension cost, end of year...........................  $   2    $   5
                                                              =====    =====
PREPAID PENSION COST:
U.S. plans..................................................  $   2    $   5
International plans.........................................     --       --
                                                              -----    -----
Prepaid pension cost, end of year...........................  $   2    $   5
                                                              =====    =====
</TABLE>
 
  POST-RETIREMENT PLANS
 
     The Firm has unfunded post-retirement benefit plans that provide medical
and life insurance for eligible retirees, employees and dependents. The Firm's
accrued post-retirement benefit liability was $50 million and $53 million as of
November 1997 and November 1998, respectively. The Firm's expense for these
plans was $6 million, $7 million and $6 million in the years ended 1996, 1997
and 1998, respectively.
 
  POST-EMPLOYMENT PLANS
 
     Post-employment benefits include, but are not limited to, salary
continuation, supplemental unemployment benefits, severance benefits,
disability-related benefits, and continuation of health care and life insurance
coverage provided to former or inactive employees after employment but before
retirement. The accrued but unfunded liability under the plans was $12 million
and $10 million as of November 1997 and November 1998, respectively. The Firm's
expense for these plans was $2 million in each of the fiscal years ended 1996,
1997 and 1998.
 
  DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS
 
     The Firm contributes to employer sponsored U.S. and international defined
contribution plans. The Firm's contribution to the U.S. plans was $39 million,
$44 million and $48 million for the years ended 1996, 1997 and 1998,
respectively. The Firm's contribution to the international plans was $7 million,
$14 million and $10 million for the years ended 1996, 1997 and 1998,
respectively.
 
                                      F-20
<PAGE>   143
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 8.  CAPITAL
 
  PARTNERS' CAPITAL
 
     Partners' capital includes both the general partner's and limited partners'
capital and is subject to certain withdrawal restrictions. As of November 1998,
the Firm had $6.31 billion in partners' capital. Managing directors that are
participating limited partners in Group L.P. ("PLPs") who elect to retire are
entitled to redeem their capital over a period of not less than five years
following retirement, but often reinvest a significant portion of their capital
as limited partners for longer periods. Partners' capital was reduced by $368
million in 1998 due to the termination of the Profit Participation Plans under
which certain employees received payments based on the earnings of the Firm.
Partners' capital allocated for income taxes and potential withdrawals
represents management's estimate of net amounts currently distributable,
primarily to the PLPs, under the Partnership Agreement, for items including,
among other things, income taxes and capital withdrawals.
 
     Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. ("SBCM"), a limited partner that had
capital invested of approximately $834 million as of November 1998, may require
Group L.P. to redeem its capital over a five-year period beginning no earlier
than 2007. Kamehameha Activities Association ("KAA"), a limited partner that had
capital invested of approximately $757 million as of November 1998, may require
Group L.P. to redeem $391 million of its capital over a five-year period
beginning no earlier than 2010 and $366 million of its capital over a five-year
period beginning no earlier than 2013.
 
     Institutional Limited Partners (other than SBCM and KAA) had aggregate
capital invested of $755 million as of November 1998. Group L.P. must repay
these Institutional Limited Partners' capital as follows: $270 million in six
equal annual installments commencing in December 2001, $257 million in March
2005, $146 million in November 2013 and $82 million in November 2023.
 
     Group L.P. may defer any required redemption of capital if the redemption
would cause a subsidiary subject to regulatory authority to be in violation of
the rules of such authority or if the withdrawal of funds to satisfy the
redemption from an unregulated subsidiary would have a material effect on such
subsidiary.
 
  REGULATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
     GS&Co. is a registered U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary, which is subject to
the Securities and Exchange Commission's "Uniform Net Capital Rule", and has
elected to compute its net capital in accordance with the "Alternative Net
Capital Requirement" of that rule. As of November 1997 and November 1998, GS&Co.
had regulatory net capital, as defined, of $1.77 billion and $3.25 billion,
respectively, which exceeded the amounts required by $1.37 billion and $2.70
billion, respectively.
 
     GSI, a registered U.K. broker-dealer and subsidiary of Group L.P., is
subject to the capital requirements of the Securities and Futures Authority
Limited and GSJL, a Tokyo-based broker-dealer, is subject to the capital
requirements of the Japanese Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervisory
Agency. As of November 1997 and November 1998, GSI and GSJL were in compliance
with their local capital adequacy requirements.
 
     Certain other subsidiaries of the Firm are also subject to capital adequacy
requirements promulgated by authorities of the countries in which they operate.
As of November 1997 and November 1998, these subsidiaries were in compliance
with their local capital adequacy requirements.
 
                                      F-21
<PAGE>   144
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 9.  GEOGRAPHIC DATA
 
     The Firm's activities as an investment banking and securities firm
constitute a single business segment pursuant to SFAS No. 14 "Financial
Reporting for Segments of a Business Enterprise".
 
     Due to the highly integrated nature of international financial markets, the
Firm manages its business based on the profitability of the enterprise as a
whole, not by geographic region. Accordingly, management believes that
profitability by geographic region is not necessarily meaningful.
 
     The total revenues, net revenues, pre-tax earnings and identifiable assets
of Group L.P. and its consolidated subsidiaries by geographic region are
summarized below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER
                                                      -----------------------------
                                                       1996       1997       1998
                                                       ----       ----       ----
                                                              (in millions)
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>        <C>
TOTAL REVENUES:
Americas(1).........................................  $12,864    $15,091    $15,972
Europe..............................................    3,762      4,463      5,156
Asia................................................      663        879      1,350
                                                      -------    -------    -------
Total...............................................  $17,289    $20,433    $22,478
                                                      =======    =======    =======
 
NET REVENUES:
Americas(1).........................................  $ 4,397    $ 5,104    $ 5,436
Europe..............................................    1,355      1,739      2,180
Asia................................................      377        604        904
                                                      -------    -------    -------
Total...............................................  $ 6,129    $ 7,447    $ 8,520
                                                      =======    =======    =======
 
PRE-TAX EARNINGS:
Americas(1).........................................  $ 1,963    $ 2,061    $ 1,527
Europe..............................................      536        683        913
Asia................................................      107        270        481
                                                      -------    -------    -------
Total...............................................  $ 2,606    $ 3,014    $ 2,921
                                                      =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-22
<PAGE>   145
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 AS OF NOVEMBER
                                                       -----------------------------------
                                                         1996         1997         1998
                                                         ----         ----         ----
                                                                  (in millions)
<S>                                                    <C>          <C>          <C>
IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS:
Americas(1)..........................................  $ 171,345    $ 206,312    $ 229,412
Europe...............................................     62,172       80,551      106,721
Asia.................................................      6,894       13,240       19,883
Eliminations.........................................    (88,365)    (121,702)    (138,636)
                                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
Total................................................  $ 152,046    $ 178,401    $ 217,380
                                                       =========    =========    =========
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
(1) Americas principally represents the United States.
 
NOTE 10.  QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1996
                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                        1ST       2ND       3RD       4TH
                                                        ---       ---       ---       ---
                                                                  (in millions)
<S>                                                    <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Total revenues.......................................  $4,030    $4,656    $4,313    $4,290
Interest expense, principally on short-term
  funding............................................   2,566     2,986     2,845     2,763
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
Revenues, net of interest expense....................   1,464     1,670     1,468     1,527
Operating expenses...................................     899       961       879       784
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
Pre-tax earnings.....................................     565       709       589       743
Provision for taxes..................................      21        23        31       132
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
     Net earnings....................................  $  544    $  686    $  558    $  611
                                                       ======    ======    ======    ======
</TABLE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1997
                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                        1ST       2ND       3RD       4TH
                                                        ---       ---       ---       ---
                                                                  (in millions)
<S>                                                    <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Total revenues.......................................  $4,932    $4,608    $5,957    $4,936
Interest expense, principally on short-term
  funding............................................   2,975     2,934     3,727     3,350
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
Revenues, net of interest expense....................   1,957     1,674     2,230     1,586
Operating expenses...................................   1,052     1,064     1,298     1,019
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
Pre-tax earnings.....................................     905       610       932       567
Provision for taxes..................................      44        99        60        65
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
     Net earnings....................................  $  861    $  511    $  872    $  502
                                                       ======    ======    ======    ======
</TABLE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1998
                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                        1ST       2ND       3RD       4TH
                                                        ---       ---       ---       ---
                                                                  (in millions)
<S>                                                    <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Total revenues.......................................  $5,903    $6,563    $5,735    $4,277
Interest expense, principally on short-term
  funding............................................   3,431     3,574     3,591     3,362
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
Revenues, net of interest expense....................   2,472     2,989     2,144       915
Operating expenses...................................   1,450     1,952     1,389       808
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
Pre-tax earnings.....................................   1,022     1,037       755       107
Provision for taxes..................................     138       190       102        63
                                                       ------    ------    ------    ------
     Net earnings....................................  $  884    $  847    $  653    $   44
                                                       ======    ======    ======    ======
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-23
<PAGE>   146
 
                    REVIEW REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Partners,
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.:
 
We have reviewed the condensed consolidated statement of financial condition of
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and Subsidiaries (the "Firm") as of February 26,
1999, and the related condensed consolidated statements of earnings, and cash
flows for the three months ended February 26, 1999 and February 27, 1998 and the
related condensed consolidated statement of changes in partners' capital for the
three months ended February 26, 1999 (included on pages F-25 to F-33 of this
prospectus). These financial statements are the responsibility of the Firm's
management.
 
We conducted our review in accordance with standards established by the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants. A review of interim financial
information consists principally of applying analytical procedures to financial
data and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting
matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards, the objective of which is the
expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole.
Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
 
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should
be made to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for them
to be in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
New York, New York
April 9, 1999.
 
                                      F-24
<PAGE>   147
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                                                   FEBRUARY
                                                              ------------------
                                                               1998       1999
                                                              -------    -------
                                                                 (unaudited)
                                                                (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
REVENUES:
Investment banking..........................................  $  633     $  902
Trading and principal investments...........................   1,115      1,398
Asset management and securities services....................     512        543
Interest income.............................................   3,643      3,013
                                                              ------     ------
          Total revenues....................................   5,903      5,856
Interest expense, principally on short-term funding.........   3,431      2,861
                                                              ------     ------
          Revenues, net of interest expense.................   2,472      2,995
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Compensation and benefits...................................   1,100      1,275
Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees.......................      93        111
Market development..........................................      54         77
Communications and technology...............................      58         78
Depreciation and amortization...............................      42         97
Occupancy...................................................      44         78
Professional services and other.............................      59         91
                                                              ------     ------
          Total operating expenses..........................   1,450      1,807
Pre-tax earnings............................................   1,022      1,188
Provision for taxes.........................................     138        181
                                                              ------     ------
Net earnings................................................  $  884     $1,007
                                                              ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                  condensed consolidated financial statements.
                                      F-25
<PAGE>   148
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    AS OF
                                                                  FEBRUARY
                                                                    1999
                                                                -------------
                                                                 (unaudited)
                                                                (in millions)
<S>                                                             <C>
ASSETS:
Cash and cash equivalents...................................      $  3,345
Cash and securities segregated in compliance with U.S.
  federal and other regulations (principally U.S. government
  obligations)..............................................         7,361
Receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing
  organizations.............................................         4,624
Receivables from customers and counterparties...............        19,311
Securities borrowed.........................................        74,036
Securities purchased under agreements to resell.............        41,776
Right to receive securities.................................         7,280
Financial instruments owned, at fair value:
  Commercial paper, certificates of deposit and time
     deposits...............................................         1,413
  U.S. government, federal agency and sovereign
     obligations............................................        26,580
  Corporate debt............................................         9,080
  Equities and convertible debentures.......................        11,298
  State, municipal and provincial obligations...............         1,021
  Derivative contracts......................................        20,441
  Physical commodities......................................           688
Other assets................................................         2,370
                                                                  --------
                                                                  $230,624
                                                                  ========
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH:
Short-term borrowings, including commercial paper...........      $ 33,863
Payables to brokers, dealers and clearing organizations.....         1,294
Payables to customers and counterparties....................        32,143
Securities loaned...........................................        24,770
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase..............        36,906
Obligation to return securities.............................         9,078
Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair
  value:
  U.S. government, federal agency and sovereign
     obligations............................................        29,391
  Corporate debt............................................         1,579
  Equities and convertible debentures.......................         8,238
  Derivative contracts......................................        22,677
  Physical commodities......................................           267
Other liabilities and accrued expenses......................         3,022
Long-term borrowings........................................        20,405
                                                                  --------
                                                                   223,633
Commitments and contingencies
Accumulated other comprehensive income......................           (37)
Partners' capital allocated for income taxes and potential
  withdrawals...............................................           416
Partners' capital...........................................         6,612
                                                                  --------
                                                                  $230,624
                                                                  ========
</TABLE>
 
              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                  condensed consolidated financial statements.
                                      F-26
<PAGE>   149
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
        CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN PARTNERS' CAPITAL
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 PERIOD ENDED
                                                                   FEBRUARY
                                                                     1999
                                                                   --------
                                                                 (unaudited)
                                                                (in millions)
<S>                                                             <C>
Partners' capital, beginning of period......................        $6,310
Additions:
  Net earnings..............................................         1,007
  Capital contributions.....................................            48
                                                                    ------
          Total additions...................................         1,055
Deductions:
  Returns on capital and certain distributions to
     partners...............................................          (171)
  Transfers to partners' capital allocated for income taxes
     and potential withdrawals, net.........................          (582)
                                                                    ------
          Total deductions..................................          (753)
                                                                    ------
Partners' capital, end of period............................        $6,612
                                                                    ======
</TABLE>
 
              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                  condensed consolidated financial statements.
                                      F-27
<PAGE>   150
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                                                   FEBRUARY
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1998       1999
                                                              --------    -------
                                                                  (unaudited)
                                                                 (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net earnings..............................................  $    884    $ 1,007
  Non-cash items included in net earnings:
     Depreciation and amortization..........................        42         97
     Deferred income taxes..................................         8          5
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
     Cash and securities segregated in compliance with U.S.
      federal and other regulations.........................      (191)       526
     Net receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing
      organizations.........................................       233        260
     Net payables to customers and counterparties...........     1,950     (8,394)
     Securities borrowed, net...............................   (12,579)    (1,225)
     Financial instruments owned, at fair value.............   (51,461)    (2,267)
     Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at
      fair value............................................    14,601      8,205
     Other, net.............................................      (759)      (617)
                                                              --------    -------
       Net cash used for operating activities...............   (47,272)    (2,403)
  Cash flows from investing activities:
     Property, leasehold improvements and equipment.........       (63)      (103)
     Financial instruments owned, at fair value.............       (45)        58
                                                              --------    -------
       Net cash used for investing activities...............      (108)       (45)
                                                              --------    -------
  Cash flows from financing activities:
     Short-term borrowings, net.............................    11,500      2,567
     Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, net....    34,157     (3,643)
     Issuance of long-term borrowings.......................     5,630      4,468
     Repayment of long-term borrowings......................      (608)      (105)
     Capital contributions..................................         6         48
     Returns on capital and certain distributions to
      partners..............................................      (157)      (171)
     Partners' capital allocated for income taxes and
      potential withdrawals.................................      (309)      (207)
                                                              --------    -------
       Net cash provided by financing activities............    50,219      2,957
                                                              --------    -------
     Net increase in cash and cash equivalents..............     2,839        509
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period..............     1,328      2,836
                                                              --------    -------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period....................  $  4,167    $ 3,345
                                                              ========    =======
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
 
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:
 
Cash payments for interest approximated the related expense for each of the
fiscal periods presented. Payments of income taxes were not material.
 
The increases in total assets and liabilities related to the provisions of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125 that were deferred under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 127 were excluded from the
consolidated statements of cash flows as they represented non-cash items.
 
              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                  condensed consolidated financial statements.
                                      F-28
<PAGE>   151
 
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
              NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 
NOTE 1.  DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("Group
L.P."), together with its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, the "Firm"),
is a global investment banking and securities firm that provides a wide range of
services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base.
 
     The Firm's activities are divided into three principal business lines:
 
     - Investment Banking, which includes financial advisory services and
       underwriting;
 
     - Trading and Principal Investments, which includes fixed income, currency
       and commodities ("FICC"), equities and principal investments (principal
       investments reflect primarily the Firm's investments in its merchant
       banking funds); and
 
     - Asset Management and Securities Services, which includes asset
       management, securities services and commissions.
 
NOTE 2.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Group L.P.
and its U.S. and international subsidiaries including Goldman, Sachs & Co.
("GS&Co.") and J. Aron & Company in New York, Goldman Sachs International
("GSI") in London and Goldman Sachs (Japan) Ltd. ("GSJL") in Tokyo. The
consolidated financial statements are unaudited and should be read in
conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere in this prospectus.
 
     These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles that require management to make
estimates and assumptions regarding trading inventory valuations, partner
retirements, the outcome of pending litigation and other matters that affect the
consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. These estimates and
assumptions are based on judgment and available information and, consequently,
actual results could be materially different from these estimates.
 
     The unaudited consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments,
consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that are, in the opinion of
management, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim
periods presented. Interim period operating results may not be indicative of the
operating results for a full year.
 
     Unless otherwise stated herein, all references to February 1998 and
February 1999 refer to the Firm's fiscal quarter ended, or the date, as the
context requires, February 27, 1998 and February 26, 1999, respectively.
 
  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
     In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income", which
establishes standards for the reporting and presentation of comprehensive income
and its components in the financial statements. This Statement is effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1997 and was adopted by the Firm in
the first quarter of 1999. The components of comprehensive income are set forth
below:
 
                                      F-29
<PAGE>   152
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
      NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                                                FEBRUARY
                                                           ------------------
                                                            1998       1999
                                                           -------    -------
                                                             (in millions)
<S>                                                        <C>        <C>
Net earnings.............................................  $  884     $1,007
Other comprehensive loss
  Foreign currency translation adjustment................     (5)        (6)
                                                           ------     ------
Total comprehensive income...............................  $  879     $1,001
                                                           ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
NOTE 3.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     Gains and losses on financial instruments and commission income and related
expenses are recorded on a trade date basis in the consolidated statements of
earnings. For purposes of the consolidated statement of financial condition
only, purchases and sales of financial instruments, including agency
transactions, are generally recorded on a settlement date basis. Recording such
transactions on a trade date basis would not result in a material adjustment to
the consolidated statement of financial condition.
 
     Substantially all financial instruments used in the Firm's trading and
non-trading activities are carried at fair value or amounts that approximate
fair value and unrealized gains and losses are recognized in earnings. Fair
value is based generally on listed market prices or broker or dealer price
quotations. To the extent that prices are not readily available, fair value is
based on either internal valuation models or management's estimate of amounts
that could be realized under current market conditions, assuming an orderly
liquidation over a reasonable period of time. Certain over-the-counter
derivative instruments are valued using pricing models that consider, among
other factors, current and contractual market prices, time value, and yield
curve and/or volatility factors of the underlying positions.
 
     The Firm's Trading and Principal Investments business facilitates customer
transactions and takes proprietary positions through market-making in and
trading of securities, currencies, commodities and swaps and other derivatives.
Derivative financial instruments are often used to hedge cash instruments or
other derivative financial instruments as an integral part of the Firm's
strategies. As a result, it is necessary to view the results of any activity on
a fully-integrated basis, including cash positions, the effect of related
derivatives and the financing of the underlying positions.
 
     Net revenues represent total revenues less allocations of interest expense
to specific securities, commodities and other positions in relation to the level
of financing incurred by each. The following table sets forth the net revenues
of the Firm's Trading and Principal Investments business:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                                                FEBRUARY
                                                           ------------------
                                                            1998       1999
                                                           -------    -------
                                                             (in millions)
<S>                                                        <C>        <C>
FICC.....................................................  $  741     $  876
Equities.................................................     365        455
Principal investments....................................      76         26
                                                           ------     ------
Total Trading and Principal Investments..................  $1,182     $1,357
                                                           ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-30
<PAGE>   153
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
      NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 
DERIVATIVE ACTIVITIES
 
     Most of the Firm's derivative transactions are entered into for trading
purposes. The Firm uses derivatives in its trading activities to facilitate
customer transactions, to take proprietary positions and as a means of risk
management. The Firm also enters into non-trading derivative contracts to manage
the interest rate and currency exposure on its long-term borrowings.
 
     Derivative contracts are financial instruments, such as futures, forwards,
swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from underlying assets,
indices, reference rates or a combination of these factors. Derivatives may
involve future commitments to purchase or sell financial instruments or
commodities, or to exchange currency or interest payment streams. The amounts
exchanged are based on the specific terms of the contract with reference to
specified rates, securities, commodities or indices.
 
     Derivative contracts exclude certain cash instruments, such as
mortgage-backed securities, interest-only and principal-only obligations and
indexed debt instruments, that derive their values or contractually required
cash flows from the price of some other security or index. Derivatives also
exclude option features that are embedded in cash instruments, such as the
conversion features and call provisions embedded in bonds. The Firm has elected
to include commodity-related contracts in its derivative disclosure, although
not required to do so, as these contracts may be settled in cash or are readily
convertible into cash.
 
     Derivatives used for trading purposes are reported at fair value and are
included in "Derivative contracts" on the consolidated statement of financial
condition. Gains and losses on derivatives used for trading purposes are
included in "Trading and Principal Investments" on the consolidated statements
of earnings.
 
     The Firm utilizes replacement cost as its measure of derivative credit
risk. Replacement cost, as reported in financial instruments owned, at fair
value on the consolidated statement of financial condition, represents amounts
receivable from various counterparties, net of any unrealized losses owed where
management believes a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable master
netting agreement. Replacement cost for purchased option contracts is the market
value of the contract. The Firm controls its credit risk through an established
credit approval process, by monitoring counterparty limits, obtaining collateral
where appropriate and, in some cases, using legally enforceable master netting
agreements.
 
     The fair value of derivative financial instruments used for trading
purposes, computed in accordance with the Firm's netting policy, is set forth
below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      AS OF
                                                                  FEBRUARY 1999
                                                              ----------------------
                                                              ASSETS     LIABILITIES
                                                              ------     -----------
                                                                  (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Forward settlement contracts................................  $ 3,991      $ 3,725
Swap agreements.............................................    9,233       10,460
Option contracts............................................    7,140        8,484
                                                              -------      -------
Total.......................................................  $20,364      $22,669
                                                              =======      =======
</TABLE>
 
     Derivatives used for non-trading purposes include interest rate futures
contracts and interest rate and currency swap agreements, which are primarily
utilized to convert a substantial portion of the Firm's fixed rate debt into
U.S. dollar-based floating rate obligations. Gains and losses on these
transactions are generally deferred and recognized as adjustments to interest
expense
 
                                      F-31
<PAGE>   154
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
      NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 
over the life of the derivative contract. Gains and losses resulting from the
early termination of derivatives used for non-trading purposes are generally
deferred and recognized over the remaining life of the underlying debt. If the
underlying debt is terminated prior to its stated maturity, gains and losses on
these transactions, including the associated hedges, are recognized in earnings
immediately. The fair value and carrying value of derivatives used for non-
trading purposes are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      AS OF
                                                                  FEBRUARY 1999
                                                              ---------------------
                                                              ASSETS    LIABILITIES
                                                              ------    -----------
                                                                  (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>
          Fair value........................................   $319         $13
          Carrying value....................................     77           8
</TABLE>
 
NOTE 4.  SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
 
     The Firm obtains secured short-term financing principally through the use
of repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements, collateralized
mainly by U.S. government, federal agency, investment grade foreign sovereign
obligations and equity securities. The Firm obtains unsecured short-term
borrowings through issuance of commercial paper, promissory notes and bank
loans. The carrying value of these short-term obligations approximates fair
value due to their short term nature.
 
     Short-term borrowings are set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  AS OF
                                                                FEBRUARY
                                                                  1999
                                                              -------------
                                                              (in millions)
<S>                                                           <C>
Commercial paper............................................     $10,740
Promissory notes*...........................................      10,893
Bank loans and other*.......................................      12,230
                                                                 -------
Total.......................................................     $33,863
                                                                 =======
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
* As of February 1999, short-term borrowings included $6,285 million of
  long-term borrowings maturing within one year.
 
     The Firm maintains unencumbered securities with a market value in excess of
all uncollateralized short-term borrowings.
 
NOTE 5.  REGULATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
     GS&Co. is a registered U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary, which is subject to
the Securities and Exchange Commission's "Uniform Net Capital Rule", and has
elected to compute its net capital in accordance with the "Alternative Net
Capital Requirement" of that rule. As of February 1999, GS&Co. had regulatory
net capital, as defined, of $2.89 billion, which exceeded the amount required by
$2.40 billion.
 
     GSI, a registered U.K. broker-dealer and subsidiary of Group L.P., is
subject to the capital requirements of the Securities and Futures Authority
Limited and GSJL, a Tokyo-based broker-dealer, is subject to the capital
requirements of the Japanese Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervisory
Agency. As of February 1999, GSI and GSJL were in compliance with their local
capital adequacy requirements.
 
                                      F-32
<PAGE>   155
                 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
      NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 
     Certain other subsidiaries of the Firm are also subject to capital adequacy
requirements promulgated by authorities of the countries in which they operate.
As of February 1999, these subsidiaries were in compliance with their local
capital adequacy requirements.
 
NOTE 6.  CONTINGENCIES
 
     The Firm is involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and arbitration
proceedings concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of its
businesses. Management believes, based on currently available information, that
the results of such proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material
adverse effect on the Firm's financial condition, but might be material to the
Firm's operating results for any particular period, depending, in part, upon the
operating results for such period.
 
                                      F-33
<PAGE>   156
 
                                  UNDERWRITING
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc.,
Kamehameha Activities Association and the underwriters for the U.S. offering
(the "U.S. underwriters") named below have entered into an underwriting
agreement with respect to the shares being offered in the United States and
Canada. Subject to certain conditions, each U.S. underwriter has severally
agreed to purchase the number of shares indicated in the following table.
Goldman, Sachs & Co., Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., Credit Suisse First Boston
Corporation, Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation, Lehman
Brothers Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, PaineWebber Incorporated,
Prudential Securities Incorporated, Salomon Smith Barney Inc., Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., Inc. and Schroder & Co. Inc. are the representatives of the
U.S. underwriters.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Number of
                     U.S. Underwriters                          Shares
                     -----------------                        ---------
<S>                                                           <C>
Goldman, Sachs & Co. .......................................   2,572,116
Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. ...................................   2,572,107
Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation......................   2,572,107
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation.........   2,572,107
Lehman Brothers Inc. .......................................   2,572,107
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated..........   2,572,107
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. ................................   2,572,107
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated...........................   2,572,107
PaineWebber Incorporated....................................   2,572,107
Prudential Securities Incorporated..........................   2,572,107
Salomon Smith Barney Inc. ..................................   2,572,107
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., Inc. ...........................   2,572,107
Schroder & Co. Inc. ........................................   2,572,107
BT Alex. Brown Incorporated.................................     340,400
BancBoston Robertson Stephens Inc. .........................     340,400
CIBC World Markets Corp. ...................................     340,400
Chase Securities Inc. ......................................     340,400
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc. ..................................     340,400
EVEREN Securities, Inc. ....................................     340,400
Hambrecht & Quist LLC.......................................     340,400
Edward D. Jones & Co., L.P. ................................     340,400
Lazard Freres & Co. LLC.....................................     340,400
Muriel Siebert & Co., Inc. .................................     340,400
NationsBanc Montgomery Securities LLC.......................     340,400
Nesbitt Burns Securities Inc. ..............................     340,400
RBC Dominion Securities Corporation.........................     340,400
Scotia Capital Markets (USA) Inc. ..........................     340,400
TD Securities (USA) Inc. ...................................     340,400
Utendahl Capital Partners, L.P. ............................     340,400
Wasserstein Perella Securities, Inc. .......................     340,400
William Blair & Company, L.L.C. ............................     340,400
Advest, Inc. ...............................................     317,400
Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated..........................     317,400
M. R. Beal & Company........................................     317,400
</TABLE>
 
                                       U-1
<PAGE>   157
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Number of
                     U.S. Underwriters                          Shares
                     -----------------                        ---------
<S>                                                           <C>
J.C. Bradford & Co. ........................................     317,400
Dain Rauscher Wessels, a division of Dain Rauscher
  Incorporated..............................................     317,400
Gruntal & Co., L.L.C. ......................................     317,400
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc. ..............................     317,400
Legg Mason Wood Walker, Incorporated........................     317,400
McDonald Investments Inc., A KeyCorp Company................     317,400
Neuberger Berman, LLC.......................................     317,400
Putnam, Lovell, de Guardiola & Thornton, Inc. ..............     317,400
Ramirez & Co., Inc. ........................................     317,400
RONEY CAPITAL MARKETS, A division of BANC ONE CAPITAL
  MARKETS, Inc. ............................................     317,400
Scott & Stringfellow, Inc. .................................     317,400
Stephens Inc. ..............................................     317,400
Stifel, Nicolaus & Company Incorporated.....................     317,400
Sutro & Co. Incorporated....................................     317,400
Tucker Anthony Cleary Gull..................................     317,400
U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc. ............................     317,400
Wachovia Securities, Inc. ..................................     317,400
Adams, Harkness & Hill, Inc. ...............................     124,200
Apex Securities, a division of Rice Financial Products
  Company...................................................     124,200
Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder, Inc. ..........................     124,200
George K. Baum & Company....................................     124,200
Blaylock & Partners, L.P. ..................................     124,200
The Buckingham Research Group Incorporated..................     124,200
Burnham Securities Inc. ....................................     124,200
The Chapman Company.........................................     124,200
Chatsworth Securities LLC...................................     124,200
Conning & Company...........................................     124,200
Crowell, Weedon & Co. ......................................     124,200
D.A. Davidson & Co. ........................................     124,200
Doft & Co., Inc. ...........................................     124,200
Doley Securities, Inc. .....................................     124,200
Fahnestock & Co. Inc. ......................................     124,200
Ferris, Baker Watts, Incorporated...........................     124,200
Fifth Third Securities, Inc. ...............................     124,200
First Albany Corporation....................................     124,200
First Security Van Kasper...................................     124,200
First Southwest Company.....................................     124,200
First Union Capital Markets Corp. ..........................     124,200
Fox-Pitt, Kelton Inc. ......................................     124,200
Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co., Inc. .....................     124,200
Gerard Klauer Mattison & Co., Inc. .........................     124,200
Graicap, Inc. ..............................................     124,200
Guzman & Company............................................     124,200
HCFP/Brenner Securities, LLC................................     124,200
Hanifen, Imhoff Inc. .......................................     124,200
J.J.B. Hilliard, W.L. Lyons, Inc. ..........................     124,200
</TABLE>
 
                                       U-2
<PAGE>   158
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Number of
                     U.S. Underwriters                          Shares
                     -----------------                        ---------
<S>                                                           <C>
Hoak Breedlove Wesneski & Co. ..............................     124,200
William R. Hough & Co. .....................................     124,200
Howard, Weil, Labouisse, Friedrichs Incorporated............     124,200
Jackson Securities Incorporated.............................     124,200
Janney Montgomery Scott Inc. ...............................     124,200
Jefferies & Company, Inc. ..................................     124,200
Johnston, Lemon & Co. Incorporated..........................     124,200
C.L. King & Associates, Inc. ...............................     124,200
Kirkpatrick, Pettis, Smith, Polian Inc. ....................     124,200
Ladenburg, Thalmann & Co. Inc. .............................     124,200
Laidlaw Global Securities, Inc. ............................     124,200
Lam Securities Investments, Inc. ...........................     124,200
Loop Capital Markets, LLC...................................     124,200
Mesirow Financial, Inc. ....................................     124,200
Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. ..............................     124,200
Needham & Company, Inc. ....................................     124,200
Ormes Capital Markets, Inc. ................................     124,200
Parker/Hunter Incorporated..................................     124,200
Pennsylvania Merchant Group.................................     124,200
Petrie Parkman & Co., Inc. .................................     124,200
Pryor & Company, LLC........................................     124,200
Ragen MacKenzie Incorporated................................     124,200
Raymond James & Associates, Inc. ...........................     124,200
The Robinson-Humphrey Company, LLC..........................     124,200
SBK Brooks Investment Corp. ................................     124,200
Sanders Morris Mundy........................................     124,200
Sandler O'Neill & Partners, L.P. ...........................     124,200
Sands Brothers & Co., Ltd. .................................     124,200
Seasongood & Mayer..........................................     124,200
Simmons & Company International.............................     124,200
SWM Securities, Inc. .......................................     124,200
SoundView Technology Group, Inc. ...........................     124,200
Southwest Securities, Inc. .................................     124,200
Sterne, Agee & Leach, Inc. .................................     124,200
Sturdivant & Co., Inc. .....................................     124,200
SunTrust Equitable Securities Corporation...................     124,200
Sutter Securities Incorporated..............................     124,200
C.E. Unterberg, Towbin......................................     124,200
Volpe Brown Whelan & Company, LLC...........................     124,200
Walton Johnson & Company....................................     124,200
Wedbush Morgan Securities...................................     124,200
The Williams Capital Group, L.P. ...........................     124,200
B.C. Ziegler and Company....................................     124,200
Ameritrade, Inc. ...........................................      57,500
DATEK ONLINE BROKERAGE SERVICES CORP. ......................      57,500
</TABLE>
 
                                       U-3
<PAGE>   159
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Number of
                     U.S. Underwriters                          Shares
                     -----------------                        ---------
<S>                                                           <C>
E*Offering Corp. ...........................................      57,500
GS-Online LLC...............................................      57,500
Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. .................................      57,500
Wit Capital Corporation.....................................      57,500
                                                              ----------
Total.......................................................  55,200,000
                                                              ==========
</TABLE>
 
                                ---------------
 
     The U.S. underwriters had the option, if they sold more than 48,000,000
shares, to purchase up to an additional 7,200,000 shares from The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc. The foregoing table reflects the exercise, in full, by the U.S.
underwriters of such option.
 
     Shares sold by the underwriters to the public are being offered at the
initial public offering price set forth on the cover page of this prospectus.
Any shares sold by the underwriters to securities dealers may be sold at a
discount of up to $1.35 per share from the initial public offering price. Any
such securities dealers may resell any shares purchased from the underwriters to
certain other brokers or dealers at a discount of up to $0.10 per share from the
initial public offering price. If all of the shares are not sold at the initial
public offering price, the representatives may change the offering price and the
other selling terms.
 
     The offer and sale by the underwriters of the shares of common stock is
subject to the underwriters having received and accepted the shares from The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and Kamehameha
Activities Association. In addition, the underwriters may, in their sole
discretion, reject all or any part of any order for the shares which is received
by them. The underwriters expect to deliver the shares in New York, New York on
the date indicated on the front cover page of this prospectus in exchange for
payment in immediately available funds.
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and
Kamehameha Activities Association have entered into underwriting agreements with
underwriters for the sale of 8,000,000 shares outside of the United States,
Canada and the Asia/Pacific region and 4,000,000 shares in the Asia/Pacific
region. The terms and conditions of all three offerings are the same and the
sale of shares in all three offerings are conditioned on each other. Goldman
Sachs International, ABN AMRO Rothschild, Banque Nationale de Paris, BAYERISCHE
HYPO- und VEREINSBANK Aktiengesellschaft, Cazenove & Co., Commerzbank
Aktiengesellschaft, Deutsche Bank AG London, ING Barings Limited as Agent for
ING Bank N.V., London Branch, Kleinwort Benson Limited, MEDIOBANCA - Banca di
Credito Finanziaro S.p.A., Paribas and UBS AG, acting through its division
Warburg Dillon Read, are representatives of the underwriters for the
international offering outside of the United States, Canada and the Asia/Pacific
region (the "International underwriters") and Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C., BOCI
Asia Limited, China Development Industrial Bank Inc., China International
Capital Corporation Limited, Daiwa Securities (H.K.) Limited, The Development
Bank of Singapore Ltd, HSBC Investment Bank Asia Limited, Jardine Fleming
Securities Limited, KOKUSAI Securities (Hong Kong) Limited, Kotak Mahindra
(International) Limited, The Nikko Merchant Bank (Singapore) Limited, Nomura
International plc, Samsung Securities Co., Ltd., Standard Chartered Asia Limited
and Were Stockbroking Limited are representatives of the underwriters for the
Asia/Pacific region offering (the "Asia/Pacific underwriters"). The
International and Asia/Pacific underwriters have exercised, in full, their
options to purchase 1,800,000 shares of common stock from The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc.
 
     The underwriters for each of the three offerings have entered into an
agreement in which they have agreed to restrictions on where and to whom they
and any dealer
                                       U-4
<PAGE>   160
 
purchasing from them may offer shares as a part of the distribution of the
shares. The underwriters have also agreed that they may sell shares among each
of the underwriting groups.
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc.,
Kamehameha Activities Association, the parties to the shareholders' agreement,
including all of the directors and executive officers of The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc., and the retired limited partners have agreed not to dispose of or
hedge any of their common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable
for shares of common stock during the period from the date of this prospectus
continuing through the date 180 days after the date of this prospectus, except
with the prior written consent of Goldman, Sachs & Co. This agreement does not
apply to the shares of common stock underlying any awards described under
"Management -- The Employee Initial Public Offering Awards" that are received by
persons who are not managing directors or any future awards granted under the
stock incentive plan. See "Shares Eligible for Future Sale" for a discussion of
certain transfer restrictions.
 
     Prior to the offerings, there has been no public market for the shares. The
initial public offering price has been negotiated among The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. and the representatives. Among the factors considered in determining the
initial public offering price of the shares, in addition to prevailing market
conditions, were The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.'s historical performance,
estimates of the business potential and earnings prospects of The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc., an assessment of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.'s management and the
consideration of the above factors in relation to market valuation of companies
in related businesses.
 
     The common stock will be listed on the NYSE under the symbol "GS". In order
to meet one of the requirements for listing the common stock on the NYSE, the
underwriters have undertaken to sell lots of 100 or more shares to a minimum of
2,000 beneficial holders.
 
     In connection with the offerings, the underwriters may purchase and sell
shares of common stock in the open market. These transactions may include short
sales, stabilizing transactions and purchases to cover positions created by
short sales. Short sales involve the sale by the underwriters of a greater
number of shares than they are required to purchase in the offerings.
Stabilizing transactions consist of certain bids or purchases made for the
purpose of preventing or retarding a decline in the market price of the common
stock while the offerings are in progress.
 
     The underwriters also may impose a penalty bid. This occurs when a
particular underwriter repays to the underwriters a portion of the underwriting
discount received by it because the representatives have repurchased shares sold
by or for the account of such underwriter in stabilizing or short covering
transactions.
 
     These activities by the underwriters may stabilize, maintain or otherwise
affect the market price of the common stock. As a result, the price of the
common stock may be higher than the price that otherwise might exist in the open
market. If these activities are commenced, they may be discontinued by the
underwriters at any time. These transactions may be effected on the NYSE, in the
over-the-counter market or otherwise.
 
     After the offerings, because Goldman, Sachs & Co. is a member of the NYSE
and because of its relationship to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., it will not be
permitted under the rules of the NYSE to make markets in or recommendations
regarding the purchase or sale of the common stock. This may adversely affect
the trading market for the common stock.
 
     Also, because of the relationship between Goldman, Sachs & Co. and
GS-Online LLC and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., the offerings are being
conducted in accordance with Rule 2720 of the NASD. That rule requires that the
initial public offering price can be no higher than that recommended by a
"qualified independent underwriter", as defined by the NASD. Donaldson, Lufkin &
Jenrette Securities Corporation, Merrill Lynch,
 
                                       U-5
<PAGE>   161
 
Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated have
served in that capacity and performed due diligence investigations and reviewed
and participated in the preparation of the registration statement of which this
prospectus forms a part. Each of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities
Corporation, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Morgan
Stanley & Co. Incorporated has received $10,000 from The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. as compensation for such role.
 
     The underwriters may not confirm sales to discretionary accounts without
the prior written approval of the customer.
 
     Goldman, Sachs & Co., Goldman Sachs International, Goldman Sachs (Asia)
L.L.C. and GS-Online LLC are subsidiaries of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. In
aggregate, these four affiliated underwriters have severally agreed to purchase
approximately 4.8% of the shares being offered in the three offerings. If any of
the shares underwritten by these four affiliates are sold by them at a price
less than the initial public offering price, the net proceeds from the offerings
to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. on a consolidated basis will be reduced because
such affiliates and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. are accounted for on a
consolidated basis.
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and
Kamehameha Activities Association estimate that their shares of the total
expenses of the offerings, excluding underwriting discounts and commissions,
will be approximately $9,000,000, $100,000 and $100,000, respectively.
 
     The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Sumitomo Bank Capital Markets, Inc. and
Kamehameha Activities Association have agreed to indemnify the several
underwriters against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the
Securities Act of 1933.
 
     Certain of the underwriters and their affiliates have in the past provided,
and may in the future from time to time provide, investment banking and general
financing and banking services to The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. and their affiliates for which they have in the past received,
and may in the future receive, customary fees. The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P.,
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and their affiliates have in the past provided,
and may in the future from time to time provide, similar services to the
underwriters and their affiliates on customary terms and for customary fees.
 
     This prospectus may be used by the underwriters and other dealers in
connection with offers and sales of the shares, including sales of shares
initially sold by the underwriters in the offerings being made outside of the
United States, to persons located in the United States.
 
                                       U-6
<PAGE>   162
 
                  The inside back cover of this prospectus is
                           a series of photographs of
                    Goldman Sachs employees participating in
                      our Community TeamWorks initiative.
 
                The following text appears in the center of the page:
 
                           THE WORLD OF GOLDMAN SACHS
 
     The dedication we bring to our professional relationships extends beyond
the world of finance into our communities. At Goldman Sachs, we work side by
side with our clients to 'adopt' schools, clean parks, build housing for those
in need and engage in a host of other acts of citizenship. Each volunteer
relationship is an investment with returns that not only enrich our communities,
but also benefit our clients--by strengthening our sense of teamwork and
enriching our understanding of and appreciation for people and places beyond our
daily responsibilities.
<PAGE>   163
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  No dealer, salesperson or other person is authorized to give any information
or to represent anything not contained in this prospectus. You must not rely on
any unauthorized information or representations. This prospectus is an offer to
sell or to buy only the shares offered hereby, but only under circumstances and
in jurisdictions where it is lawful to do so. The information contained in this
prospectus is current only as of its date.
 
             ------------------
 
             TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        Page
                                        ----
<S>                                     <C>
Our Business Principles...............     2
Prospectus Summary....................     3
Risk Factors..........................    11
Use of Proceeds.......................    22
Dividend Policy.......................    22
Reports of Independent Accountants on
  Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
  Information.........................    23
Pro Forma Consolidated Financial
  Information.........................    25
Dilution..............................    32
Capitalization........................    33
Selected Consolidated Financial
  Data................................    34
Report of Independent Accountants on
  Management's Discussion and Analysis
  of Financial Condition and Results
  of Operations.......................    36
Management's Discussion and Analysis
  of Financial Condition and Results
  of Operations.......................    37
Industry and Economic Outlook.........    63
Business..............................    66
Management............................    91
Principal and Selling Shareholders....   104
Certain Relationships and Related
  Transactions........................   106
Description of Capital Stock..........   111
Shares Eligible for Future Sale.......   117
Validity of Common Stock..............   120
Experts...............................   120
Available Information.................   122
Index to Consolidated Financial
  Statements..........................   F-1
Underwriting..........................   U-1
</TABLE>
 
             ------------------
 
     Through and including May 28, 1999 (the 25th day after the date of this
prospectus), all dealers effecting transactions in these securities, whether or
not participating in this offering, may be required to deliver a prospectus.
This is in addition to the dealers' obligation to deliver a prospectus when
acting as underwriters and with respect to their unsold allotments or
subscriptions.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
                               69,000,000 Shares
 
                               THE GOLDMAN SACHS
                                  GROUP, INC.
 
                                  Common Stock

                               ------------------
 
                              [GOLDMAN SACHS LOGO]
 
                               ------------------

                              GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
                            BEAR, STEARNS & CO. INC.
                           CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON
                          DONALDSON, LUFKIN & JENRETTE
                                LEHMAN BROTHERS
                              MERRILL LYNCH & CO.
                               J.P. MORGAN & CO.
                           MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER
                            PAINEWEBBER INCORPORATED
                             PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES
                              SALOMON SMITH BARNEY
                        SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO., INC.
                              SCHRODER & CO. INC.
                      Representatives of the Underwriters
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
