Supreme Court, U.8 
7iii2n 


9417 46 APR 19 1995 
No. OERCE OF ME GupaK 


In The 


Supreme Court of the United States 
October Term, 1994 


¢ 


DR. JOSEPH C. DEBLASE, AND BEN CERRA, 


Petitioners, 


CIGNA INDIVIDUAL FINANCIAL SERVICES 
COMPANY, CIGNA CORPORATION; CIGNA 
SECURITIES, INC.; NICHOLAS DISETTE, 


Respondents. 


¢ 


Petition For Writ Of Certiorari 
To The United States Court Of Appeals 
For The Eighth Circuit 


+ 


PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI 


¢ 


Bert S. BRAUD 

Counsel of Record 

The Popham Law Firm 
922 Walnut 

Suite 1300 

Kansas City, MO 64106 
(816) 221-2288 

Fax (816) 221-3999 


Attorneys for Petitioners 


QUESTIONS PRESENTED 


# Does the decision of the Eighth Circuit Court 
of Appeals, in affirming without opinion the decision of the 
District Court, conflict with and ignore decisions of the 
controlling state court of last resort (the Missouri Supreme 
Court), where jurisdiction is based on diversity of citizenship, 
contrary to this Court’s opinions? 


2. Does the decision of the Eighth Circuit Court 
of Appeals, in affirming without opinion the decision of the 
District Court, improperly condone, contrary to Rule 56 of 
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and this Court's opinions 
regarding summary judgment, the weighing of evidence in 
favor of the moving party and against the non-moving party? 


ii 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


QUESTIONS PRESENTED 


TARE GCP ALSTORESEED 60 oe chs sceseceevess iv 
OPINIONS AND ORDERS BELOW .............. l 
eg ee errr ee er or eet 2 


STATUTE, RULE AND CONSTITUTIONAL 


eg es ee er er oe 2 
STATEMENT Gh Time CAG 6 occ ec ctwesewcans 3 
REASONS FOR GRANTING THE WRIT .......... 9 
CARMEN cc ccidwened basses aeebeeutees 23 


APPENDIX A: Per Curiam Order of the United 
States Court of Appeals for the Eighth 
Pre r ee ore ee i A-l 


APPENDIX B: Order Denying Rehearing and 
a kk rr ee A-3 


APPENDIX C: Amended Order of the United 
States District Court for the Western 
District of Missouri, Western Division ...... A-4 


ill 


APPENDIX D: Amended Judgment of the United 
States District Court for the Western 
Ee A-17 


APPENDIX E: Order of the United States District 
Court for the Western District of 
Missouri, Western Division............. A-19 


APPENDIX F: Judgment of the United States 
District Court for the Western District 
of Missouri, Western Division ........... A-26 


iV 
TABLE OF AUTHORITIES 
Cases Page(s) 


Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Great National Corp., 
ig we Bm fk: fe ee See ae 18 


Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 US. 
242, 255, 106 S.Ct. 2505, 2514, 91 
Mook & F: Ree ng rr ee 18 


Cantley v. Plattner, 228 Mo. App. 441, 
ek AB Reo gs. : Re er er ar 12 


Cantrell v. Superior Loan Corp., 603 S.W.2d 
Ors, Set ek SE wee oe eka ence ene 12 


Cochran v. Giddens, 1994 WL 160351 
(Mo. App. E.D. May 3, 1994) ......... 10, 11, 13, 22 


Croley V. Matson Navigation Company, 434 
Tae Ti oe ee Es CPE NOS se aks Pe 20 


Essex v. Getty Oil Company, 661 S.W.2d 
AA, Boe TOO. PO. TIGRE nk ov eee naves 12, 14 


Jaccbs Manufacturing Company v. Sam 
Brown Company, 19 F.3d 1259 (8th Cir. 
SO 5 54 Se ee en See ERE hee eae 9, 13, 14 


v 


Leib v. Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and 
Smith, Inc., 461 F. Supp. 951 (E.D. Mich. 


Leuzinger v. Merrill, Lynch, Fenner and 
Smith, Inc., 396 S.W.2d 570, 575 (Mo. 


tee Se as oa oc ea eee 


Mercantile Trust Company v. Harper, 622 


S.W.2d 345, 249 (Mo. App. 1981) ...... 


Pinken v. Frank, 704 F.2d 1019, 
1024-26 (8th Cir. 1983) ............. 


Reves v. Ernst & Young, 113 S.Ct. 1163, 
men 3). Pre ane 


Salve Regina College v. Russell, 111 S. Ct. 
SOF7, See ROE 6 6k Oa ere 


Smith v. Smith, Barney, Harris and Upham 
& Co., Inc., 50S F. Supp. 1380, 1387 


CWA DOO. SSE) 8 6 ie sda week es 


Umpleby by and through Umpleby v. United 


States, 806 F.2d 812 (8th Cir. 1986) ..... 


Vogel v. A.G. Edwards, 801 S.W.2d 
Fam CP. PI ww os ee eee tee 


vi 


Statutes 
Re Or ORES ons sk wae 4 6b. e eRe 2 
re ee ee ee Ce ee cee eeeeewee ea 2, 19, 20 
Missouri Merchandising Practices Act, 
RSMo. § 407.020 (1986). .............. 3, 20 
Other Authorities 


a | I an a ered eee tao 


Wright, Miller & Kane, Federal Practice 
aud Proceaere, Vol. TOA, S Zee «icc cee we cues: 19 


In The 


Supreme Court of the United States 


October Term, 1994 
® 


DR. JOSEPH C. DEBLASE, AND BEN CERRA, 


Petitioners, 


CIGNA INDIVIDUAL FINANCIAL SERVICES 
COMPANY, CIGNA CORPORATION; CIGNA 
SECURITIES, INC.; NICHOLAS DISETTE, 

Respondents. 


¢ 


Petition For Writ Of Certiorari 
To The United States Court Of Appeals 
For The Eighth Circuit 


+ 


PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI 
+ 


OPINIONS AND ORDERS BELOW 


The decision of the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals, 
dated November 17, 1994, is an unpublished Per Curiam 
opinion, and is set out in the Appendix at A-1. The District 
Court's opinions and the judgments entered, May 27, 1993 
(A-4) and March 29, 1994 (A-19), granting the respondents’ 
Motions for Summary Judgment, are unpublished. 


2 
JURISDICTION 


The Court of Appeals entered its judgment on 
November 22, 1994. Following the granting of a request for 
an extension of time, petitioners filed a timely Petition for 
Rehearing, which was denied on January 19, 1995. 
Jurisdiction of this Court is invoked under 28 U.S.C. 


§ 1254(1). 


STATUTE, RULE AND CONSTITUTIONAL 
PROVISION INVOLVED 


The Seventh Amendment of the United States 
Constitution provides: 


In suits at common law, where the value in 
controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the 
right of trial by jury shall be preserved. 


Rule 56, Fed. R. Civ. P., provides in pertinent part as 
follows: 


(c) Motion and _ Proceedings _ thereon. 
[T]he judgment sought shall be 
rendered forthwith if the pleadings, 
depositions, answers to interrogatories, 
and admissions on file, together with 
the affidavits, if any, show that there is 
no genuine issue as to any material 


3 


fact and that the moving party 
is entitled to a judgment as a 
matter of law... 


STATEMENT OF THE CASE 


Petitioners filed their claims in state court (June 
1991), alleging three (3) theories of recovery in five separate 
counts: Fraud (Count I for common law fraud, and Count 
V for violations of the Missouri Merchandising Practices Act, 
RSMo. § 407.020 et seq.); Breach of Fiduciary Duty (Count 
II); and Negligence (Count III for the negligence of the 
individual Respondent and Count IV for the negligence of the 
corporate respondents). Respondents removed the matter to 
Federal District Court based upon diversity jurisdiction. 


Respondents filed a motion for summary judgment on 
the fraud-based counts. On May 25, 1993, within days of a 
June 7 trial, the District Court granted respondents’ motion 
for summary judgment. Because respondents filed the 
original motion only as to the fraud counts, petitioners sought 
(by telephone request) clarification of the extent of the 
District Court’s order. On May 27, 1993, the District Court 
issued an amended order granting summary judgment as to all 
counts. (App. A-4). 


Petitioners filed a motion asking the District Court to 
reconsider its order, since respondents’ motion had only 
addressed the fraud-based counts and not the negligence 
counts. On November 17, 1993, the District Court issued its 


caine 


4 


Second Amended Order, repeating its earlier position granting 
summary judgment as to the fraud-based counts, but granting 
petitioners’ motion to reconsider and reinstating the negli- 
gence counts and the fiduciary duty count. 


On December 30, 1993, respondents filed yet another 
motion for summary judgment, this time focusing on the 
negligence counts and the fiduciary duty count. The District 
Court granted that motion on March 29, 1994 (App. A-19). 


On May 10, 1994, petitioners filed their Notice of 
Appeal to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals. Because the 
Missouri Supreme Court has accepted transfer of a case 
factually similar, and addressing the same critical legal issues 


as this case, petitioners asked the Eighth Circuit to withhold 
any ruling until the Missouri Supreme Court had issued its 
opinion. On November 22, 1994, the Eighth Circuit denied 
petitioners’ motion to consider the Missouri Supreme Court's 
pending opinion. On that same day, in a Per Curiam Order, 
the Eighth Circuit affirmed the District Court, without 
addressing any of the issues raised by the petitioners. On 
January 19, 1995, the Eighth Circuit dened petitioners’ 
request for rehearing. 


l. Statement of the Facts 


Petitioners invested substantial funds on the advice of 
respondent Nicholas DiSette (DiSette). Petitioners’ evidence 
was that DiSette lied to the petitioners regarding the nature 
of the investments he was recommending, and lied to 


ae 


5 


petitioners concerning whether they needed to read the 
accompanying offering materials, which revealed the true 
nature of the investments. There was a factual dispute about 
whether one of the petitioners, Ben Cerra ("Cerra”), actually 
received the offering materials. 


Neither petitioner was sophisticated in investing his 
money. DiSette himself admitted that Cerra was not a 
sophisticated investor. (DiSette depo., p. 180). Cerra 
testified: “I didn’t understand the whole financial end of 
money, any kind of money, and I didn’t know what I should 
or not be doing [with his income].” (Cerra depo., p. 18). 


In short, when DiSette told Cerra that Cerra could 
build houses but not do financial planning, DiSette was “very 
right.” (/d. at p. 50). Before meeting DiSette, the highest 
income Cerra had ever earned in one year was $40,000.00. 
(/d. at p. 11). Mr. Cerra’s entire prior investment history 
consisted of a few certificates of deposit and two IRA's. (Jd. 
at p. 16). 


Dr. Joseph DeBlase ("DeBlase”) was a successful 
doctor. He was also an “experienced investor.” However, he 
was anything but a successful investor. DeBlase 


. was so busy with medicine that I didn’t 
pay any attention to my financial business. I 
didn’t know about planning, I lost money, it 
seemed like most of the investments I made 
weren't good, and I needed someone to do this 


6 


for me. Because I didn’t understand why, you 
know, something looked good to me and it 
didn’t turn out to be good. 


(DeBlase depo., p. 47). DiSette said that DeBlase needed help 
badly. (/d. at p. 47). 


In the early 1980s, DeBlase became acquainted with 
DiSette, an investment advisor who worked with Respondent/ 
Appellee CIGNA Individual Financial Services (“CIGNA”). 
(Depo. of DeBlase, p. 33-34). DiSette convinced DeBlase 
that DeBlase should pay DiSette Twelve Thousand Dollars 
($12,000.00) per vear for DiSette’s advice. DiSette became 
the paid financial advisor of DeBlase. (Answer of Defen- 
dants to Amended Complaint, ] 7, p. 2). 


While Cerra had a good year in 1986, he knew from 
experience that good years come and go. Cerra believed that 
within three years, business would probably fall off. (Cerra 
depo., p. 15-16). As a result, Cerra was interested in 
preserving the income from that good year to have at his 
disposal when the housing market changed. (/d., p. 34) 
DeBlase suggested to Cerra that Cerra meet with DiSette; 
DiSette charged Cerra Six Thousand Dollars ($6,000.00) per 
year to be Cerra’s paid financial advisor. (Answer of Defen- 
dants to Amended Complaint, 71 12, p. 4). 


DeBlase and Cerra had similar investment objectives. 
DeBlase’s objectives were a dependable income for his wife, 


an emergency fund for illness, a guaranteed income in case 


7 


of disability, and retirement income. (DeBlase depo. at p. 
61). He “wanted things that [he] could derive an income 
from, so that when [he] retire[d] [he] would have a good 
income and [his] quality of life would not change.” (Jd. at 
58). Cerra “was looking for somebody who could help [him] 
to put [his] money away to where [he] would not hit the 
downfalls as they’re in [his] business financially.” (Cerra 
depo., p. 15). He wanted “safe investments that were liquid 
enough that [he] could obtain in a no more than a four-year 
time frame.” (/d. at 34; see also pp. 40 through 41). In spite 
of that, DiSette recommended that both invest primarily in 
high risk, highly leveraged real estate limited partnerships. 


CIGNA had procedures in place concerning the 
recommendation of investments, and the review of advisors 
like DiSette. (See depo. of Robert Clark, at pp. 43-44). Mr. 
Clark is vice-president of CIGNA Securities. (Clark depo., p. 
29) James Lasater, Manager/Regional Vice-President, Kansas 
City, admitted that it was his responsibility as DiSette’s super- 
visor to review DiSette’s activities, and review the investment 
objectives of the client. (Lasater depo. at pp. 95-96). Clark 
testified that it would not be appropriate to instruct a client 
not to read the subscription documents before signing. (/d., 
at pp. 90-92). He also said it is unusual for the producer/ 
agent to maintain the Private Placement Memoranda (PPMs) 
in his office, rather than deliver them to the client. (/d. at 
92). The producer of an investment, like DiSette, should 
discuss the risks of an investment with the client. (/d. at 72). 
Lasater said, “I cannot imagine somebody not delivering a 
prospectus.” That, according to Lasater, would be inappro- 


| 


8 


priate. (/d., at p. 77). Lasater also acknowledged that it 
would be improper to recommend the purchase of an 
investment that would be inconsistent with the objectives of 
the investor. (/d. at 83). 


The limited partnerships had lengthy offering 
materials, which showed the risks and the nature of the 
investments. DiSette discouraged DeBlase and Cerra from 
reading these materials, in spite of CIGNA’s rules to the 
contrary, as identified by Lasater. DiSette told DeBlase, 
“You don't need to read these documents. This is what you 
are paying me to do.” (DeBlase depo., p. 97 and p. 109). 
DiSette presented DeBlase and Cerra with a large stack of 
documents, and said, “Sign on the line indicated.” (/d., p. 
103). The signature lines would be “flagged” with yellow 
post-it notes, and DiSette would flip through the pages while 
the client signed. (DiSette depo., p. 169). Sometimes, DiSette 
would bring only the signature pages for his clients’ review. 
(DeBlase depo., p. 103). In Cerra’s case, DiSette did not 
provide him with the actual offering materials, but with the 
signature pages only. (Cerra depo., pp. 81, and 121). 


The language on the signature pages included state- 
ments that the investors had read the materials that 
accompanied the pages — DiSette, of course, knew that this 
was not true. Some investments required an investment 
advisor, since DeBlase and Cerra were not considered 


accredited investors. On those occasions, DiSette enlisted the 


help of two professionals — one, an attorney and the other an 


accountant — to lend their names to the materials, to give the 


9 


impression that the “advisors” had actually offered advice. In 
fact, Cerra never even met the “advisors”, and did not know 
they had lent their names to the investments. Predictably, 
given the high-risk nature of the investments, the investments 
failed miserably, ~ ‘th petitioners losing more than One 
Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00). 


1. This Court should issue a writ of certiorari 
because the Eighth Circuit's ruling is inconsistent 
with decisions of the court of last resort in this 
jurisdiction for claims based on state common law, 
namely, the Missouri Supreme Court. Further, the 
decision of the Eighth Circuit is inconsistent with 
it's own opinion in Jacobs Manufacturing Company 
v. Sam Brown Company, 19 F.3d 1259 (8th Cir. 
1994). 


The sole basis for the ruling of the District Court, and 
presumably, the Eighth Circuit, are the written descriptions of 
the investments contained in the offering materials. Those 
writings, assuming petitioners ever saw them!, differed 
drastically from the verbal representations — the lies — of 
DiSette. 


The first threshold is the assumption that the 
petitioners received the PPMs to begin with. Cerra testified 
that he never received them. DiSette kept the PPMs in his 
office. The only documents Cerra ever saw were the signa- 


‘Indeed, the trial would have had to engage in fact finding to conclude 


that the petitioners received the materials, since there existed a factual dispute on 
that issue. 


10 


ture pages DiSette flashed in Cerra’s face when they needed 
to be signed; the forms were blank when Cerra signed them. 
DeBlase testified that he did not see the materials on all the 
investments, and was told the same as Cerra — DiSette 
“would turn to this and say ‘sign here,’ and I would sign, and 
he would turn to the next tab, ‘sign here,’ and I would sign.” 
DeBlase depo., p. 103. DiSette himself confirmed that he 
would deliver the subscription documents with post-it notes 
for signatures. DiSette depo., p. 169. Always, DiSette would 
repeatedly tell Cerra and DeBlase that they did not need to 
read the PPMs; that was DiSette’s job. 


The Missouri Court of Appeals has recently given a 
strong indication of what the Missouri Courts think of the 
kind of behavior exhibited here by DiSette. In Cochran v. 
Giddens, 1994 WL 160351 (Mo. App. E.D. May 3, 1994), 
petitioners told their financial planner that their goals and 
objectives were as follows: 


l. Preservation of capital is the primary 
concern. It is more important to 
receive a return of capital than a return 


on capital. 

2. Diversification is the key to successful 
investing .... 

3. There should exist adequate income 


upon retirement to maintain their 
current life style. 


il 


4. When possible, tax advantages should 
be used to reduce current taxable 
income. 


Id., p. 1. These are identical to the objectives of DeBlase and 
Cerra. The issue in Cochran was whether the plaintiffs were 
on notice of the fraud, thus triggering the statute of limita- 
tions. Respondents argued that, by virtue of the written 
material setting out the risks, plaintiffs were on notice. In 
that case, plaintiffs received several lengthy, single-spaced 
prospectuses; here, there is a factual dispute about whether 
both petitioners actually received those materials. 


The defendant in Cochran verbally assured the 
plaintiffs that the investments were not risky. The plaintiffs 
said that they “trusted [Planner] completely throughout our 
dealings with him. He was the expert. We told him we had 
no expenence or education concerning these types of 
investments and that we were trusting him to protect our 
interests.” Id. at p. 3.? 


The Cochran decision is consistent with Missouri law, 
which entitles a person to rely on the representations of 
another, even if the hearer has access to the same informa- 
tion as the person making the misrepresentation: 


Where a distinct and specific representation is 
made to be acted upon, however, and action is 
induced, the representee has the right to rely 
on the representation even if the parties stand 
upon an equal footing or have equal knowl- 


? Compare that to statements of DeBlase and Cerra. Cerra did what 


DiSette told him, because he had all the confidence in the world in DiSette. (Cerra 
Depo., p. 75). “There was a time he was going to be the exec-tor of my will. 
I trusted anything he said.” (DeBlase depo., p. 117). 


12 


edge or means of information as to the subject 
matter, or even if the representation is one not 
calculated to impress a person of ordinary 
prudence. 


Essex v. Getty Oil Company, 661 S.W.2d 544, 550 (Mo. App. 
1983), emphasis added, citing Cantley v. Plattner, 228 Mo. 
App. 441, 67 S.W. 2d 125 (1934), cited in Cantrell v. 
Superior Loan Corp., 603 S.W.2d 627, 637 (Mo. App. 1980). 
In other words, even if the investors had equal access to the 
offering materials, where the investment advisor makes a 
distinct and specific representation as to the nature of the 
investment, the investor has the right to rely on that repre- 
sentation. 


Because of that, the Missouri Court of Appeals 
decided that the written materials did not put the investors on 
notice of any damages that would trigger the statute of 
limitations for fraud, and the Court of Appeals would reverse 
and remand. The Court transferred the case to the Missouri 
Supreme Court, because of the importance of the issues to be 
decided. Clearly, the Missouri courts believe that an investor 
can rely on what his advisor tells him, even if it is contrary 
to written statements. 


In the District Court opinion here, the Court acknowl- 
edged that DiSette instructed the petitioners not to read the 
PPMs. (App. A-10). In spite of those instructions, the 
District Court placed the burden on the petitioners to 
investigate the veracity of what their paid financial planner 
told them. 


Counsel for the petitioners here, upon information and 
belief, represents to this Court that besides the notice issue, 
other issues germane to this case, such as the nature of the 
fiduciary relationship of an investment advisor to the 


13 


investors, are before the Missouri Supreme Court in the 
Cochran appeal. That case was argued before the Missouri 
Supreme Court in early November 1994, and is ripe for a 
decision. Petitioners here moved the Eighth Circuit for a 
delay in any ruling, pending the very important ruling of the 
Missouri Supreme Court, but that motion was denied without 
any reasons given. The Cochran opinion is an “all-fours”, 
dispositive case — wouldn't it be prudent, in this state court, 
diversity case, to at least wait and see what the Missouri 
Supreme Court is going to do, especially when the Missouri 
Court of Appeals decided the issues favorably to the 
petitioners here and contrary to the Per Curiam Order? This 
circumstance makes this case an exceptional candidate for 
this Court to grant, vacate and remand the case to the District 
Court, pending the imminent decision of the Missouri 
Supreme Court. Likewise, the case is a candidate for holding 
until the Missouri Supreme Court has issued its opinion in 
Cochran. 


In Jacobs Manufacturing Company v. Sam Brown 
Company, 19 F.3d 1259 (8th Cir. 1994), the Eighth Circuit 
addressed the significance of written representations vis a vis 
oral statements. Brown was a distributor of Jacobs, and 
signed annual distributorship agreements that had a one-year 
term. However, Jacobs verbally represented to Brown that 
the relationship would last “a lifetime.” Brown relied on the 
oral representations, although they were contrary to the 
written agreement, the District Court vacated a jury verdict 
in favor of Brown, on the same premise used here: 


. .. Brown’s reliance on the verbal represen- 
tations was not justified as a matter of law, 
because the verbal representations conflicted 
with the express terms of the written distrib- 
utorship agreements. This view is unsupported 
by Missouri law, however.” 


14 


Id. at 1264 (emphasis added). The Eighth Circuit explained: 


In a Missouri fraud case, it is for a jury to 
decide whether a party may rely on verbal 
representations that conflict with a written 
agreement. Pinken v. Frank, 704 F.2d 1019, 
1024-26 (8th Cir. 1983); Essex [v. Getty Oil 
Company], 661 S.W.2d 544, 550. Thus, 
Brown's reliance on Jacobs's [sic] verbal repre- 
sentations could be justified, even though the 
verbal representations contradicted the distrib- 
utorship agreements’ one-year terms and reser- 
vation to Jacobs of the right to sell directly to 
the original equipment manufacturers. 


Id., (emphasis added). The Court concluded, “It was for the 
jury to decide whether Brown's reliance on Jacobs’ verbal 
representations was justified.” J/d., (emphasis added). 


As here, the District Court in Jacobs made several 
subsequent rulings based on that one premise; that is, that a 
party cannot rely on oral representations that are contrary to 
written language. The Eighth Circuit reversed the District 
Court's subsequent rulings based on that premise. Indeed, the 
Eighth Circuit held that the District Court’s rulings were 


. infected by the District Court's legally 
incorrect view that Brown could not justifiably 
believe Jacobs’ verbal representations over the 
written agreements’ terms, see 792 F. Supp. at 
1537, as we have already pointed out. 


Jacobs, at 1267 (emphasis added). The Eighth Circuit 
concluded that the District Court had a “misconception of 
Missouri law.” 


15 


This is a Missouri common law case, with absolute 
deference given to Missouri state law. This is not a federal 
securities action, but a Missouri common law fraud and 
breach of fiduciary duty action. Missouri courts do not allow 
investment advisors to lie to their clients, and specifically, the 
Missouri Supreme Court is addressing this very issue. 


4 This Court should issue a writ of certiorari 
because the Eighth Circuit's ruling is inconsistent 
with Missouri common law, and the Supreme 
Court of the United States' opinion in Salve Regina 
College v. Russell, 111 S. Ct. 1117, 1125 (1991). 


In this diversity case, this Court must review the 
District Court's determinations of state law de novo, giving 
the determinations no deference. Salve Regina College v. 
Russell, 111 S. Ct. 1117, 1125 (1991). De novo review 
means that the court should review the case anew, giving 
appropriate consideration to state law. In a case involving 
the loss of over one million dollars at the hands of an 
unscrupulous fiduciary advisor, a de novo review should 
result, in the minimum, in a well-reasoned opinion explaining 
why the courts sanction fraud and lying. 


Had the Eighth Circuit given proper deference to the 
opinions of the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, the 
Eighth Circuit would not have allowed the injustice of the 
District Court to stand. The District Court's conclusions are 
clearly contrary to the common law in Missouri, and should 
be reversed. 


ae This Court should issue a writ of certiorari 
because the Eighth Circuit's ruling is inconsistent 
with Missouri common law, and specifically, Vogel 
v. A.G. Edwards, 801 S.W.2d 746 (Mo. App. 1990), 


16 


holding that an investment advisor has a fiduciary 
relationship with his clients. 


The law in Missouri is that an investment advisor is, 
as a matter of law, a fiduciary in relation to his clients. 
“Missouri courts have uniformly held or stated that a stock 
broker owes a fiduciary duty to his customer.” Vogel v. A.G. 
Edwards, 801 S.W.2d 746, 751 (Mo. App. 1990), citing 
Leuzinger v. Merrill, Lynch, Fenner and Smith, Inc., 396 
S.W.2d 570, 575 (Mo. banc 1965), and Mercantile Trust 
Company v. Harper, 622 S.W.2d 345, 349 (Mo. App. 1981). 
As the Mercantile Trust court stated: 


... the relationship between a stockbroker and 
his customer is that of agent and principal. 
Owing a fiduciary duty to the customer, the 
broker has an ‘obligation to keep the customer 
fully informed of all facts pertinent to trans- 
actions in which the broker is representing the 
principal, to make full disclosure of all facts 
which materially affect the subject matter of 
the agency, and to exercise reasonable care 
and diligence in the performance of his duties.' 


Mercantile Trust, 622 S.W.2d at 349 (emphasis added). 
While the Vogel case dealt with a discretionary 


account, it did note that the broker's duties in a non-discre- 
tionary account such as petitioners’: 


. are, nonetheless, fiduciary duties. The 
broker must study a stock before recom- 
mending it and inform the customer of the 
risks involved in the particular transaction. 
Beyond that, the duties are to refrain from self 
dealing and misrepresentation, follow the 


17 


customers order and disclose any personal 
interest in the transaction. 


Vogel, 801 S.W.2d at 752, citing Leib v. Merrill, Lynch, 
Pierce, Fenner and Smith, Inc., 461 F. Supp. 951 (E.D. Mich. 
1978). The Vogel opinion also pointed out that, while it was 
a state court case, federal courts followed the same principle: 


This is the understanding of Missouri law by 
our colleagues in the federal courts: 


Missouri law clearly imposes general obli- 
gations and duties upon stock brokers. The 
general rule is that the relationship of the 
broker to its customer is fiduciary and confi- 
dential. 


Vogel, 801 S.W.2d at 752, citing Smith v. Smith, Barney, 
Harris and Upham & Co., Inc., 505 F. Supp. 1380, 1387 
(W.D. Mo. 1981). 


As such, DiSette owed certain duties to DeBlase and 
Cerra. Among those duties, DiSette owed petitioners an 
obligation to inform them of the risks of the particular 
investments. There is a sharp dispute in the facts about 
whether DiSette informed petitioners of the risks associated 
with the investment of over a million dollars - petitioners 
testified that DiSette told them that the investments were safe. 
The only way the District Court could conclude that the 
DiSette properly informed petitioners would be for the 
District Court to improperly weigh evidence in favor of the 
respondents. 


As the procedural history of this case shows, the 
District Court initially granted summary judgment as to all 
counts, then reconsidered that position as to the negligence 


18 


and fiduciary duty counts, because the defendants had not set 
out sufficient facts to support summary judgment on those 
counts. Yet, the only facts defendants recited in support of 
summary judgment on the negligence and fiduciary duty 
counts were the findings of fact by the court in its first order. 
In other words, the court had earlier ruled that there were 
not sufficient facts for summary judgment, but later, based on 
its own findings of fact, the court granted summary judgment. 


Such weighing of evidence is contrary to the law of 
this Court, as set out in several recent decisions. “In ruling 
on a motion for summary judgment, ‘[t]he evidence of the 
non-movant is to be believed, and all justifiable inferences 
are to be drawn in his favor.” Reves v. Ernst & Young, 
__ U.S. ___ 113 S.Ct. 1163, 122 L. Ed.2d 525 (1993), citing 
Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 255, 106 S.Ct. 
2505, 2514, 91 L.Ed.2d 202 (1986). On a motion for 
summary judgment, the moving party bears the burden of 
proof. Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Great National Corp., 818 F.2d 
19, 20 (8th Cir. 1987). 


The Court, therefore, must believe petitioners’ 
evidence — DiSette lied to the petitioners and did not give 
them the PPMs. For the District Court to conclude otherwise 
is the result of improper inferences drawn in favor of the 
respondents. 


4. This Court should issue a writ of certiorari 
because the Eighth Circuit's ruling is inconsistent 
with Umpleby by and through Umpleby v. United 
States, 806 F.2d 812 (8th Cir. 1986). 


Besides the fraud and fiduciary duty counts, 
petitioners pleaded counts of common law negligence. 
Petitioners alleged that DiSette was negligent in recom- 
mending the investments to begin with, considering the 


ery eee —e 


19 


investment objectives stated by the petitioners. Further, 
petitioners alleged that CIGNA was negligent in failing to 
properly supervise DiSette in his recommendations to the 
petitioners. The District Court, relying on the erroneous 
conclusion that DiSette owed no duty to petitioners, granted 
summary judgment. Ironically, the District Court had earlier 
conceded, in its Order of May 27, 1993, that ”. . . DiSette’s 
alleged assurances to plaintiffs may have been poor counsel 

..” (A-12, n. 10, emphasis added). Isn’t poor counsel 
negligence? 


Almost by definition, summary judgment in a 
negligence case requires finding facts for one of the parties. 
The Eighth Circuit’s decisions support that proposition. In 
Umpleby by and through Umpleby v. United States, 806 F.2d 
812 (8th Cir. 1986), a Federal Tort Claims Act case, the 
Court wisely observed that: 


Since tort actions generally encompass a 
multitude of factual issues and abstract 
situations, such actions are usually not appro- 


priate for disposition by summary judgment. 


Id. at 815. As the Fifth Circuit put it: 


Summary judgment will not usually be as 
feasible in negligence cases, where the 
standard of the reasonable man must be 
applied to conflicting testimony, as it is in 
other kinds of litigation. [citations omitted.] 
Even when the facts underlying the issue of 
negligence are undisputed, the issue must still 
be submitted to the jury if reasonable men 
could reach different conclusions and infer- 
ences from those facts. [citation omitted.] Of 
course, it would be a mistake to conclude that 


20 


summary judgment is never appropriate in a 
negligence action, but the circumstances in 
which it is proper are rare. 


Croley V. Matson Navigation Company, 434 F.2d 73, 75 (Sth 
Cir. 1970) (emphasis added). 


The commentators share that view. “[A]lthough a 
motion for summary judgment under Rule 56 may be made 
in any civil action, it is not commonly interposed, and even 
less frequently granted, in negligence actions.” Wright, 
Miller & Kane, Federal Practice and Procedure, Vol. 10A, 
§ 2729. 


It is not surprising that summary judgment is 
seldom sought or granted in negligence 
actions. Judge and jury each have a special- 
ized function in negligence actions and 
particular deference has been accorded the jury 
in this class of cases in light of its supposedly 
unique competence in applying the reasonable 
man standard to a given fact situation. 


Id. It is even more difficult for a defendant to prevail on a 
summary judgment motion when it is based on the assertion 
that there is no factual dispute regarding an issue of 
negligence or contributory negligence, since those questions 
are thought of as being within the special competence of the 
jury. /d., 1993 supplement, emphasis added. 


Recall that the Vogel case imposes on brokers a duty 
to investigate investments before recommending them. One 
of three things took place here. The first possible scenario is 
that DiSette investigated the investments as required, but did 
so negligently, and failed to discern the risk involved; in that 
case, he negligently recommended the investment. The 


21 


second alternative - he failed to perform any investigation at 
all, and therefore breached his duties under Vogel. The third 
alternative is that he competently investigated the invest- 
ments, found them to be high risk, but nevertheless 
recommended them to his clients. Respondents’ own expert 
testified that this would be negligent. “If their primary 
investment objective was to preserve capital and not put any 
of their dollars at risk, then these types of investments would 
not be suitable.” (Deposition of Joan Lavell, p. 42). 


To reach its conclusions, the District Court had to 
engage in fact finding to the extreme degree. The District 
Court acknowledged in an Order dated March 29, 1994 that 
DiSette had a duty to inform his clients of the risks in the 
investments, citing Vogel, at A-23. To grant summary 
judgment on negligence, the Court has to conclude that 
petitioners were both 100% negligent, and that the 
respondents were not negligent at all. This Court must ask 
whether a reasonable person could find that DiSette was even 
one percent negligent in making the _ investment 
recommendations he made or whether CIGNA was one 
percent negligent in its supervision of DiSette. 


The District Court completely ignored petitioners’ 
claims of negligence against CIGNA, reasoning that if 
DiSette could not be negligent, neither could CIGNA. 
Petitioners’ claims against CIGNA are separate and distinct, 
and stand alone — CIGNA owes duties to the petitioners that 
are unique to CIGNA. 


CIGNA’‘s representatives testified that it would be 
inappropriate to instruct a client not to read the PPMs before 
signing subscription documents. Further, it is unusual for the 
agent to maintain tlie PPMs in his office and not deliver them 
to the client. According to DiSette’s supervisor, DiSette 
should have discussed the risks of the investment with the 


22 


client. Finally, DiSette’s supervisor, James Lasater, acknow]l- 
edged that it is the obligation of the supervisor, Lasater, to 
see that these things are done properly. It is quite possible 
that a jury could find CIGNA negligent without finding 
DiSette negligent. 


These facts are enough to have submitted this case to 
a jury for determination. 


The facts presented to the court by the petitioners, 
which the court must take as true, are that DiSette knew the 
investment objectives of the petitioners — other words, 
DiSette knew that petitioners both wanted safe, income 
producing investments. As the plaintiffs in Cochran, infra., 
put it, they would rather have a return of capital than a return 
on capital. With those objectives in mind, DiSette neverthe- 
less put the petitioners in high risk investments. 


5. This Court should issue a writ of certiorari 
because the absence of an opinion here will lead to 
confusion, especially when the apparent outcome is 
a sanctioning of fraudulent behavior by investment 
advisors. 


A very disappointing aspect of the Per Curiam order 
is that it fails to explain any rationale for the ruling. 
Although it purports to adopt the reasoning of the District 
Court, this only leads to confusion because of the District 
Court's ruling. 


The opinion of the District Court appears to sanction 
misrepresentations and fraud — lying — by investment 
advisors. In a nutshell, the ruling concludes that as long as 
written materials are given to an investor, even though 


sienna 


23 


incomplete’, an investment advisor may lie to the investor 
and misrepresent the nature of the investment. Remember, 
petitioners’ evidence was that DiSette told them the 
investments were safe, low-risk investments — this must be 
believed on a motion for summary judgment. Accepting 
petitioners’ evidence as true, the only conclusion can be that 
it doesn’t matter if an investment advisor lies to his client. 


CONCLUSION 


In this Missouri common law case, the parties are 
entitled to the application (and an analysis of that application) 
of Missouri law. It is an injustice of the worst kind to ignore 
a pending Missouri Supreme Court decision, which would be 
dispositive of the issues here. If this Court refuses to rehear 
the appeal, and the Missouri Supreme Court comes down in 
favor of the plaintiffs, it will be too late for these petitioners 
to enjoy the law of the state of Missouri as enunciated in that 
Opinion. 


Respectfully submitted, 


Bert S. Braud 

The Popham Law Firm, P.C. 
1300 Commerce Trust Bldg. 
922 Walnut 

Kansas City, Missouri 64106 
(816) 221-2288 


Attorneys for Petitioners 


> The evidence was that the only written materials conclusively given 
to the appellants was a signature page that suggested they had read other, more 
detailed, materials. The undisputed evidence of Ben Cerra was that he had not 
received those more detailed materials; Joe Debase could not remember whether 
he got them or not. Even if he had, DiSette told Debase not to read them. 


A-l 


APPENDIX A 


UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT 
No. 94-2250WM 


Dr. Joseph C. DeBlase; Ben Cerra, 
Appellants, 
¥. 


CIGNA Individual Financial Services Company; CIGNA 
Corporation; CIGNA Securities, Inc.; Nicholas DiSette, 
Appellees. 


Appeal from the United States District Court for the 
Western District of Missouri. 


Submitted: November 16, 1994 
Filed: November 22, 1994 


Before FAGG, WOLLMAN, and HANSEN, Circuit Judges. 


PER CURIAM. 


Joseph C. DeBlase and Ben Cerra appeal the district 
court's orders granting summary judgment on DeBlase’s and 
Cerra’s claims for fraud, negligence, and breach of fiduciary 
duty. We review a grant of summary judgment under a well 
established standard. Because this is a diversity action, we 
review de novo questions of state law. Having considered the 


A-2 


record and the parties’ briefs, we are satisfied that the issues 
do not warrant a comprehensive opinion and that the record 
supports the district court’s rulings. We thus affirm the 
district court. See 8th Cir. R. 47B. 


Attest: 
Clerk, U. S. Court of Appeals, Eighth Circuit. 


A-3 


APPENDIX B 


UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT 


No. 94-2250WMKC 


Dr. Joseph C. DeBlase; Ben Cerra, 
Appellants, 


CIGNA Individual Financial Services Conipany; CIGNA 
Corporation; CIGNA Securities, Inc.; 
Nicholas Disette, 
Appellees. 


Order Denying Petition for Rehearing and 
Suggestion for Rehearing En Banc 


The suggestion for rehearing en banc is denied. The 
petition for rehearing by the panel is also denied. 


January 19, 1995 


Order Entered at the Direction of the Court: 
/s/ Michael E. Gans 
Clerk, U. S. Court of Appeals, Eighth Circuit 


A-4 


APPENDIX C 


UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE 
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI 
WESTERN DIVISION 


No. 91-0642-CV-W-2 


Dr. Joseph C. DeBlase and 
Ben Cerra, 
Plaintiffs, 


VS. 


CIGNA Individual Financial Services, et al., 
Defendants. 


AMENDED ORDER 
I. INTRODUCTION 


Pending before the court is defendants’ motion for 
summary judgment. Plaintiffs are seeking to recover funds 
lost in various investments orchestrated by defendant, DiSette, 
who was allegedly acting within his capacity as an employee 
of the other three defendants (known collectively herein as 
CIGNA).* Plaintiffs filed this action in state court and 


* The other named defendants are CIGNA Individual Financial Services 
Company, CIGNA Corporation and CIGNA Securities. 


A-5 


defendants subsequently removed to federal court. On 
January 29, 1993, plaintiffs filed an Amended Complaint 
which states five counts: Count one alleges that DiSette, 
acting as an employee of CIGNA, made fraudulent represen- 
tations to plaintiffs concerning investments; Count Two 
alleges that DiSette, acting as an employee of CIGNA, 
violated his fiduciary duty to plaintiffs; Count Three alleges 
as an alternative to Counts One and Two, that DiSette, acting 
as an employee of CIGNA, acted negligently towards 
plaintiffs, Count Four alleges that CIGNA was negligent in 
hiring and supervising DiSette; and Count Five alleges that 
defendants’ actions were unlawful under the Missouri 
Merchandising Practices Act, specifically Mo. Rev. Stat. § 
407.020.1 (1986). Plaintiff also seeks punitive damages in 
Counts One, Two and Five. 


Defendants move for summary judgment arguing that: 
(1) Plaintiff DeBlase’s action is precluded (for the most part) 
by the controlling statute of limitations; and (2) Written 
disclosures to the plaintiffs negate all claims flowing from 
alleged oral representations made by DiSette to plaintiffs. 


Il. STANDARDS GOVERNING 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT 


A movant is entitled to summary judgment pursuant 
to Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(c), “if the pleadings, depositions, 


answers to interrogatories, and admissions on file, together 
with the affidavits, if any, show that there is no genuine issue 


A-6 


as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled 
to judgment as a matter of law.” 


The moving party bears the burden of proof. Aetna 
Life Ins. Co. vy. Great National Corp., 818 F.2d 19, 20 (8th 
Cir. 1987). When considering a motion for summary judg- 
ment, the court must scrutinize the evidence in the light most 
favorable to the non-moving party, according the non-moving 
party the benefit of every factual inference and resolving all 
doubts as to the facts or existence of any material fact against 
the moving party. United States v. Conservation Chem. Co., 
619 F. Supp. 162, 179-80 (W.D. Mo. 1985). 


Recently, the Supreme Court has redefined the 
standards to be considered in ruling on summary judgment 
motions. Where, as in this case, the party moving for 
summary judgment does not bear the ultimate burden of 
persuasion at trial that party must make a prima facie 
showing “that there is an absence of evidence to support the 
non-moving party's case.” Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 
317, 325 (1986). This burden is met when the moving party 
identifies those portions of the record demonstrating an 
absence of a genuine issue of material fact. Jd. at 323. 


If the moving party meets this requirement, the burden 
shifts to the non-moving party who must produce sufficient 
evidence to manifest a dispute as to the material facts. To 
successfully meet this burden the party opposing summary 
judgment “must do more than simply show that there is some 
metaphysical doubt as to the, material facts.” Matsushita 


ee 


A-7 


Elec. Indus. Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U.S. 574, 586 
(1986). Rather, the party “must set forth specific facts 
showing that there is a genuine issue for trial.” Anderson vy. 
Liberty Lobby Inc., 474 U.S. 242, 248 (1986). Finally, "{iJn 
assessing whether a material fact is subject to a genuine 
dispute, a court should employ a standard essentially identical 
to that governing a motion for directed verdict under Rule 
50(a).” Id. at 250. If a rational trier-of-fact, considering the 
record as a whole, could not find in favor of the non-moving 
party, then a trial is unnecessary. Matsushita, 475 U.S. at 
586. 


Ill. ANALYSIS 


Defendants attack plaintiffs’ claims on two fronts. 
First, defendants contend that all of plaintiff DeBlase’s claims 
arising Out of investments made before 1986 (eight of the ten 
investments made by DeBlase) are time-barred by Mo. Rev. 
Stat. § 516.120 (1986) (five year statute of limitations 
triggered by notice of the alleged fraud). Second, defendants 
attack the allegation underlying all of plaintiffs’ claims, 


arguing that no fraud or misrepresentation exists as a matter 
* Both of defendants’ arguments turn on the issue of 
notice. The answer to a single question will ultimately decide 


of law. 


both prongs of defendants’ motion: When were plaintiffs put 


* The primary allegation undergirding plaintiffs claims is that the 
defendants, through DiSette, made material and fraudulent oral representations 
concerming the degree of risk and stability of the investments made by plaintiffs. 
All claims are inherently linked to this allegation. Therefore, defendants seek to 
invalidate all of plaintiffs’ claims by challenging this primary allegation. 


Ne ne 


A-8 


on notice that the investments were not low-risk, stable 
investments but were volatile and speculative in nature?® 
Defendants contend that the “offering materials”’ provided to 
plaintiffs (prior to, or at the time of, investment) clearly and 
unequivocally gave plaintiffs notice that the investments were 
high risk and not stable. Plaintiffs argue that, at a minimum, 
there is a genuine dispute of fact concerning when they 
received notice of the investments’s risks. 


There is no dispute that plaintiffs signed subscription 
agreements contemporaneously with each investment. 
Defendants contend that these subscription agreements 
provided the critical notice to plaintiffs in two respects. First, 
in most cases the express terms of the agreements themselves 
stated that the investments were high risk.* Second, the 


° ‘The answer to this question will resolve the issues presented by both 


prongs of defendants” motion. The point in time that DeBlase was given notice 
of the true nature of the investments will mark the beginning of the statute of 
limitations period. Further, if notice of the high risk nature of the investments 
preceded, or was contemporaneous with, the investments, plaintiffs’ misrepresen- 
tation claims must fail as a matter of law. 


7 Defendants define the “offering materials” as written disclosures 
provided to plaintiffs including an investor questionnaire, a subscription agreement 
and a private placement memorandum (a document similar to a prospectus, 
referred to hereafter as a “PPM”). 


8 The following subscription agreements (attached as exhibits to 


Defendants’ Suggestions in Support of the Motion for Summary Judgment) signed 
by DeBlase clearly indicated the high risk associated with the investments: 
Exhibit F-1, p. D-3 94(k)(i); Exhibit F-2, p. D-3 94(k)(i); 
Exhibit F-3, p. C-3 94(k)i); Exhibit F-4, p. D-3 94(k)(i), 
Exhibit F-5, p. C-3 45(1)i); Exhibit F-7, p. E-2 93(1)(i); 


ee 


A-9 


subscription agreements, in one form or another, provided 
that plaintiffs had “received and read or reviewed” each PPM 
(detailing the high risk nature of the investments) 
accompanying the individual investments. The PPMs leave 
no doubt as to the high risk, speculative nature of the limited 
partnership investments.’ Indeed, the PPMs often began with 
capitalized, bold-faced warnings such as: THE INVEST- 
MENT INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. Further, 
throughout the text of the various PPMs the speculative 
nature of the investments was clearly and redundantly 
manifested. 


To grant summary judgment in favor of defendants, the 
court must ultimately find that the only conclusion that a 
rational trier-of-fact could reach is that plaintiffs had notice 
of the speculative nature of the investments prior to, or at the 


Exhibit F-9, p. B-S 994(j) & 4(1); and Exhibit F-10, p. IV-6 
998 & 20 

Those signed by Cerra stating the risks involved are: 
Exhibit G-1, p. BS 994(j) & 41); Exhibit G-2, p. I1V-6 998 
& 20, and Exhibit G-4, p. 3 93(b). 


9 The PPMs associated with the DeBlase investments repeated] y 
indicated the high risk involved with these investments. See Exhibit F-1, pp. (ii) 
& 32; Exhibit F-2, pp. (ii) & 30, Exhibit F-3, p. (iii); Exhibit F-4, p. (ii); Exhibit 
F-5, pp. (iv-v) & 45; Exhibit F-6, pp. (i) & 19, Exhibit F-7, pp. (i) & 26; Exhibit 
F-8, pp. (i) & 27, Exhibit F-9, pp. v & 45; and Exhibit F-10, cover page and pp. 
(i) & 49. 

The PPMs associated with Cerra’s investments also clearly stated the 
risks involved. See Exhibit G-1, pp. v & 45; Exhibit G-2, cover page and pp. (i) 
& 49, Exhibit G-3, pp. (i) & 27; Exhibit G-4, pp. (i) & 18; and Exhibit G-5, pp. 
(ii) & 48-49. 


A-10 


time of, investment (or in the case of DeBlase, beyond the 
statute of limitations). See generally Matsushita, 475 U.S. 
at 586. The linchpin of defendants, motion is the claim that 
the signed subscription agreements establish, as a matter of 
law, that plaintiffs invested money with full notice of the true 
nature of the investments. With full disclosure to plaintiffs 
of the risks involved in these investments, defendants argue 
that plaintiffs’ claims of misrepresentation and fraud must fail 
as a matter of law. The court agrees and will grant the 
motion for summary judgment accordingly. 


Plaintiffs’ defense to the motion is that they signed the 
subscription agreements without reading the offering materials 
and that DiSette “went to great lengths to conceal material 
information from the plaintiffs.” Plaintiffs’ Suggestions in 
Opposition to the Motion for Summary Judgment, p. 15. 
That is, DiSette allegedly assured plaintiffs that they did not 
need to read the offering materials and thereby deceitfully 
deprived them of the knowledge contained in the written 
disclosures. “[B]oth plaintiffs have testified that they often 
time were not even given an opportunity to read the entire 
document, and [were] simply presented with a stack of 
documents with post-it notes indicating where they should 
sign. DeBlase even testified that there were occasions when 
the only page he received of the multi-page documents was 
the one which he was to sign.” Plaintiffs’ Suggestions in 
Opposition to the Motion for Summary Judgment, p. 14 
(emphasis in original). The court rejects plaintiffs’ argument. 


A-11 


The subscription agreements and the PPMs 
unequivocally stated the inherent risk of the investments. 
Plaintiffs had full knowledge of the existence of all these 
documents (they signed the subscription agreements and the 
agreements Clearly referenced the PPMS) and simply chose 
not to review them. There has been no evidence that DiSette 
refused to produce these documents upon request, prevented 
plaintiffs from examining these documents or otherwise 
concealed their existence. Instead, plaintiffs seem to infer 
that DiSette’s alleged assurances that plaintiffs need not 
review these documents somehow prevented them from 
examining the documents. The court cannot agree. Knowing 
that these documents existed, plaintiffs made a conscious 
choice not to bother themselves with the specific information 
available to them. Rather, plaintiffs signed the subscription 
agreements without review and now claim that their reliance 
on the alleged oral assurances of DiSette should insulate them 
from the disclosures made in the agreements. This position 
is untenable. 


“Under Missouri law, a person who has an Opportunity 
to read a document but signs it without doing so is held to 
have knowledge of the document's contents, absent a showing 
of fraud.” United States of America for the use of Bussen 
Quarries, Inc. v. Thomas, 938 F.2d 831, 833 (8th Cir. 1991). 
Plaintiffs have failed to make any showing that fraud 
prevented them from understanding what the subscription 
agreements Clearly stated; specifically, that the investments 
carried a high risk and that plaintiffs had “received and read 
or reviewed” the PPMS. The Bussen Quarries presumption 


A-12 


is not invalidated simply because some kind of alleged fraud 
exists in the action. Rather, this court understands Bussen 
Quarries to mean that the presumption is valid unless the 
alleged fraud either created a misapprehension as to the 
meaning or effect of the signed agreement, or induced 
plaintiffs to sign. The fraud alleged by plaintiffs does not 
affect the validity of the signed subscription agreements and 
therefore plaintiffs are deemed to have full knowledge of the 
subscription agreements and PPMs."° 


Further, this court finds the Eighth Circuit's decision 
in Davidson v. Wilson, 973 F.2d 1391 (8th Cir. 1992), 
dispositive of plaintiffs’ argument. In Davidson, the court 
was faced with two investors suing the agent, and the 
securities company employing the agent, that sold them 
shares in a high risk limited partnership. /d. at 1392. The 
plaintiffs alleged fraud because the investments did not meet 
alleged oral representations made by defendants. d. 
However, the plaintiffs received and signed subscription 
agreements prior to making the investments. /d. at 1399. 


1° Plaintiffs seem to argue two related manifestations of the alleged 


fraud: (1) That plaintiffs should rely totally on DiSette without reading the 
offering materials; and (2) The original statements of DiSette concerning the low- 
risk nature and stability of the investments. The court finds that plaintiffs have 
not set forth specific facts showing that DiSette represented that the investments 
were stable and low risk. However, even assuming that these representations did 
occur does not allow plaintiff to overcome the Bussen Quarries presumption. 
Fraud as to the speculative nature of the investments did not prevent DeBlase 
from understanding the content or effect of the subscription agreements, nor did 
it fraudulently induce plaintiffs to sign. Further, while DiSette’s alleged 
assurances to plaintiffs may have been poor counsel, it does not rise to the level 
of fraud. Accordingly, the court finds that plaintiff have failed to show any 
possible fraud foreclosing the Bussen Quarries presumption. 


a 


A-13 


These agreements made clear the risky nature of the 
investments and also referenced other documents disclosing 
the risks involved. Jd. at 1396-1400. 


The district court granted defendants’ motion for 
summary judgment, holding that the plaintiffs “may not 
justifiably close their eyes to the written materials and rely 
only upon the oral statements, and that [plaintiffs] accordingly 
are charged with constructive knowledge of the written 
materials available to them.” Id. at 1398. The Eighth Circuit 
affirmed, finding that: 


a sophisticated investor, confronted with a written 
document which contained repeated references to two 
other documents . . . and that also contained explicit 
disclaimers . . . did not justifiably rely upon any 
contradictory oral representations. There was ample 
reason for [plaintiffs] to take the position, that they 
would not move ahead and make investment payments 
until such references and representations were clari- 
fied to their satisfaction. Thus, we agree with the 
district court that, based upon the facts of this case, 
(plaintiffs’] claimed reliance upon [defendant's] oral 
representations was unjustifiable as a matter of law. 


Id. at 1401. 


The factual and legal similarities between this action 
and Davidson compel an identical result. Admittedly, 
plaintiffs DeBlase and Cerra are not as financially 
sophisticated as the investors in Davidson, but neither are 


A-14 


they unsophisticated.'' Plaintiff DeBlase is highly educated 
with significant experience in investing and financial matters. 
Deposition of Joseph DeBlase, pp. 33-34, 47, 48 56, 64, 66, 
68 & 72-73. Plaintiff Cerra has owned and operated two 
successful construction corporations for a number of years.’ 
Deposition of Ben Cerra, p. 10-13. Armed with a reasonable 
degree of business sophistication, plaintiffs were confronted 
with subscription agreements containing explicit disclaimers 
as to risk and/or referencing additional risk disclosing 
documents. Plaintiffs made a knowing and intelligent waiver 
of their right to review these materials before investing and 
relied blindly on the alleged oral representations of DiSette. 
Given these facts, the court must find that plaintiffs’ “claimed 
reliance upon [defendant's] oral representations was 
unjustifiable as a matter of law.” Id. at 1401.” 


'l Plaintiffs have set forth considerable facts in an effort to establish 


their financial unsophistication. However, the significance of sophistication is 
muted by the patent and unequivocal risk disclosures in the subscription 
agreements and PPMS. The court finds that no great degree of sophistication was 
needed to be aware of the speculative nature of plaintiffs’ investments. 


12 Plaintiff Cerra also indicated on one subscription agreement that “I 
have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and in tax- 
oriented investments in particular that I am capable of evaluating the merits and 
risks of an investments in the securities.” Defendant's Suggestions in Support of 
the Motion for Summary Judgment, Exhibit G-5, p. A-1--7. 


'3 The court in Davidson reviewed the plaintiffs,’ claim of justifiable 
reliance within the analytical framework set forth in Zobrist v. Coal-X, Inc., 708 
F.2d 1511 (10th Cir. 1983). In reviewing claims of justifiable reliance, the 
relevant factors are: 


(1) the sophistication and expertise of the plaintiff in financial and 
securities matters; (2) the existence of long standing business or 
personal relationships; (3) access to the relevant information; (4) the 
existence of a fiduciary relationship; (5) concealment of the fraud; (6) 
the opportunity to detect the fraud; (7) whether the plaintiff initiated the 


eee 


A-15 
IV. CONCLUSION 


As a matter of law, plaintiffs cannot justifiably rely on 
the alleged oral representations of DiSette. Rather, pursuant 
to the Bussen Quarries presumption and the holding in 
Davidson v. Wilson, the plaintiffs had actual (or at a mini- 
mum constructive knowledge) of the high risk, speculative 
nature of the limited partnerships at the time of investment. 
It follows then that both prongs of defendants’ motion for 
summary judgment are valid. See supra note 3 and accom- 
panying text. 


As previously stated, all claims stated in plaintiff's 
Amended Complaint are inherently founded upon an 


stock transaction or sought to expedite the transaction; and (8) the 
generality or specificity of the misrepresentations. 


Davidson, 973 P.2d at 1400 (quoting Zobrist, 708 F.2d at 1516). In addition to 
finding plaintiffs reasonably sophisticated in financial matters, this court finds the 
other factors weigh heavily in favor of granting the motion for summary 
judgment. Most significantly, the court finds that plaintiffs had full access to the 
relevant information (although they chose to ignore the materials); it cannot 
reasonably be found that DiSette concealed this information; and plaintiffs had 
every Opportunity to detect the alleged fraud by simply reading the documents 
they signed and/or represented that they had reviewed. Further, while DeBlase 
offers some evidence of a personal relationship with DiSette, neither plaintiff sets 
forth facts establishing a fiduciary relationship. Under Missouri law, a 
confidential or fiduciary relationship exists where one party, through ignorance 
(such as ignorance concerning finance and investments), “has become subservient 
to the dominant will of another, that the property of the subservient person has 
come into the possession or management of the dominant person, that the 
subservient person has surrendered his independence, and that there has been 
manipulation of the actions of the subservient party who has placed has trust and 
confidence in the dominant person.” Neal v. Sparks, 773 S.W.2d 481, 486 (Mo. 
Ct. App. 1989). No facts offered by plaintiffs would support a finding that they 
had surrendered their independence to DiSette. 

In weighing all of the Zobrist factors applied in Davidson, this court 
finds that plaintiffs are not, as a matter of law, entitled to the protections of 
justifiable reliance. 


A-16 


allegation of fraudulent representation concerning the nature 
of the investments. See supra note 2 and accompanying 
text. Having found that this allegation fails as a matter of 
law, the court finds that all claims stated in the Amended 
Complaint must fail. Accordingly, it is ORDERED that 
defendants’ motion for summary judgment as to all of 
plaintiffs’ claims (Counts I through V) is GRANTED. 


/s/ Fernando J. Gaitan, Jr. 
Fernando J. Gaitan, Jr. 
United States District Judge 


Dated: May 27, 1993 
Kansas City, Missouri 


A-17 
APPENDIX D 


IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI 


AMENDED 
JUDGMENT IN A CIVIL CASE 


Case No. 91-0642 CV-W-2 


DR. JOSEPH C. DEBLASE and, 
BEN CERRA, 
Plaintiffs, 


VS. 


CIGNA INDIVIDUAL FINANCIAL 
SERVICES, et al., 
Defendants. 


Jury Verdict. This action came before the Court for 
a trial by jury. The issues have been tried and the 
jury has rendered its verdict. 


Decision by Court. This action came to trial or 
hearing before the Court. The issues have been 
tried or heard and a decision has been rendered. 


X_ Decision by Court. This action was briefed by the 
parties. The issues were reviewed and a decision 


has been rendered. 


IT IS ORDERED that 


defendants’ motion for summary judgment as to all of 
plaintiffs’ claims (Counts I through V) is GRANTED. 


A-18 


May 27, 1993 R. F. Connor 
Date Clerk 


/s{ Rhonda Ens 


(by) Deputy Clerk 
Entered on May 28, 1993 


A-19 
APPENDIX E 


IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI 
WESTERN DIVISION 


Case No. 91-0642-CV-W-2 


Dr. Joseph C. DeBlase et al., 
Plaintiffs, 


VS. 


CIGNA Individual Financial 
Services Company et al., 
Defendants. 


ORDER 
1. INTRODUCTION 


Plaintiffs in the above titled action are seeking to recover 
funds lost in various high risk investments orchestrated by 
defendant, Nicholas DiSette, who was allegedly acting within 
his capacity as an employee of the other three defendants 
(known collectively herein as CIGNA).' Plaintiffs claim that 
they instructed DiSette to provide them with low risk 
investments and that instead, DiSette proffered high risk 
investments. Plaintiffs claim that, despite the fact that the 
offering materials and subscription agreements which 
accompanied each investment stated that the investments were 
high risk, they signed the subscription agreements without 


‘The other named defendants are Cigna Individual Financial Services 
Company, Cigna Corporation and Cigna Securities. 


A-20 


reading the offering materials and were unaware of the risks 
because DiSette assured them that there was no need to read 
them. Plaintiffs’ Amended Complaint states five counts: 
Count One alleges that DiSette, acting as an employee of 
CIGNA, made fraudulent representations to plaintiffs concern- 
ing investments; Count Two alleges that DiSette, acting as an 
employee of CIGNA, violated his fiduciary duty to plaintiffs; 
Count Three alleges as an alternative to Counts One and 
Two, that DiSette, acting as an employee of CIGNA, acted 
negligently towards plaintiffs; Count Four alleges that 
CIGNA was negligent in hiring and supervising DiSette; and 
Count Five alleges that defendants’ actions were unlawful 
under the Missouri Merchandising Practices Act, specifically 
Mo. Rev. Stat. § 407.020.1 (1986). 


On May 27, 1993, this court issued an order granting 
defendants’ motion for summary judgment as to all counts of 
plaintiffs’ complaint. On June 9, 1993, plaintiffs filed a 
motion for reconsideration of the May 27 Order. On 
November 17, 1993, the court, upon reconsideration, upheld 
the May 27 Order granting summary judgment as to Counts 
I and V but denied summary judgment as to Counts II 
through IV for lack of specific arguments regarding these 
claims. The November 17 Order allowed defendants to 
renew their motion for summary judgment as to Counts I] 
through IV by specifically addressing these claims. Pending 
before this court is defendants’ renewed motion for summary 
judgment on Counts II through IV of plaintiffs’ complaint. 


II. STANDARD FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 


Rule 56(c) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 
permits summary judgment “if the pleadings, depositions, 
answers to interrogatories, and admissions on file, together 
with the affidavits, if any, show that there is no genuine issue 


en ee ee 


A-21 


as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled 
to judgment as a matter of law.” 


The key to determining whether summary judgment is 
proper is ascertaining whether there exists a genuine issue of 
material fact. See Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 
242, 248 (1986). A genuine issue of material fact exists if: 
(1) there is a dispute of fact; (2) the disputed fact is material 
to the outcome of the case; and (3) the dispute is genuine, 
that is, a reasonable jury could return a verdict for either 
party. The party moving for summary judgment has the 
burden of proving that these requirements for summary 
judgment have been met. Adickes v. S.H. Kress & Co., 398 
U.S. 144, 157 (1970). 


In a summary judgment analysis, a court must first 
consider whether there are any issues of fact. If the only 
issues are issues of law, then summary judgment is 
appropriate. Sheline v. Dun & Bradstreet, 948 F.2d 174, 176 
(Sth Cir. 1991). 


If issues of fact are raised, a court must consider whether 

these issues are material to the outcome of the case. 

Materiality is identified by the substantive law that is to be 

applied. Anderson, 477 U.S. at 248. Factual disputes that are 

| collateral to the substantive law will not preclude summary 
: judgment. See Id. 


In addition to the requirement that a dispute of fact be 
material, the dispute must also be genuine. A dispute of fact 
is considered genuine if the non-moving party has produced 
sufficient evidence such that a reasonable jury could return a 
verdict for that party. Jd. at 249. When considering a motion 
for summary judgment, the evidence of the non-movant is to 
be believed, and all justifiable inferences are to be drawn in 
his favor. /d. at 255. If the evidence submitted by the non- 


Aaa Ti tte Naren eo Be 


Chivas ia ied LapaiitananlKs 


A-22 


moving party is merely colorable or is not significantly 
probative, then summary judgement may be granted. J/d. at 
249-50. 


Where the party moving for summary judgment does not 
bear the burden of proof at trial, that party must show “that 
there is an absence of evidence to support the non-moving 
party's case.” Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. at 325. This 
burden is met when the moving party identifies portions of 
the record demonstrating an absence of a genuine issue of 
material fact. Jd. at 323. If the moving party meets the 
requirement, the. burden shifts to the nonmoving party who 
“must set forth specific facts showing that there is a genuine 
issue for trial.” Anderson, 474 U.S. at 248. The trial judge 
then determines whether a trial is needed. “[Wlhether, in 
other words, there are any genuine factual issues that properly 
can be resolved only by a finder of fact because they may 
reasonably be resolved in favor of either party.” Jd. at 250. 


Ill. ANALYSIS 


A. Count Ill 


Count III of plaintiffs’ complaint is a negligence claim 
against defendant DiSette. Plaintiffs claim that DiSette was 
negligent in assuring plaintiffs that they need not read the 
offering materials for the investments that they made and by 
advising and encouraging plaintiffs to invest in high risk 
investments after analyzing their net worth and financial 
needs. 


In any action for negligence, the plaintiff must establish 
that (1) the defendant had a duty to the plaintiff, (2) the 
defendant failed to perform that duty, and (3) the defendant's 
breach was the proximate cause of the plaintiffs injury. 
Martin v. City of Wash., 848 S.W.2d 487, 493 (Mo. 1993) (en 


Se ae Ne 


A-23 


banc). In this case, the court finds that plaintiffs have failed 
to prove that DiSette breached a duty owed to them. 


The relationship between DiSette and the plaintiffs was a 
financial advisor/investor relationship. In this relationship, 
the plaintiffs had discretion over their investments, that is 
DiSette was not authorized to engage in investments without 
plaintiffs’ approval. The Missouri Court or Appeals discussed 
the duties owed by a financial advisor to his investors in a 
non-discretionary account in Vogel v. A.G. Edwards & Sons, 
Inc., 801 S.W.2d 746 (Mo. App. 1990). In Vogel, the court 
found that these duties are somewhat limited and include the 
duties to: (1) study a stock before recommending it; (2) 
inform the customer of the risks involved in the particular 
transaction; (3) refrain from self dealing and misrepresen- 
tation; (4) follow the customer’s order; and (5) disclose any 
personal interest in the transaction. Jd. at 752. 


Plaintiffs in this case have failed to prove that any of 
these duties have been breached. Plaintiffs have presented no 
evidence that DiSette failed to study the investments before 
recommending them, was self dealing, failed to follow their 
orders, or that he had any personal interest in the transactions. 


While plaintiffs contend that DiSette failed to inform 
them of the risks involved in the particular transaction, this 
court has previously found that most of the subscription 
agreements signed by plaintiffs for each investment stated 
that the investments were high risk. Furthermore, each 
subscription agreement stated that plaintiffs had “received and 
read or reviewed” each PPM (detailing the high risk nature of 
the investments) accompanying the individual investments. 
Under Missouri law, the plaintiffs are deemed to have full 
knowledge of any documents they signed. United States for 
the use of Bussen Quarries, Inc. v. Thomas, 938 F.2d 831, 
833 (8th Cir. 1991). Therefore, this court found that 


A-24 


plaintiffs were held to have knowledge of the high risk 
investments. (Order of Nov. 17, 1993, at 10.) This court 
also found that plaintiffs’ reliance on oral representations 
made by DiSette was unjustifiable as a matter of law. (Order 
of November 17, 1993, at 12 (citing Davidson v. Wilson, 973 
P.2d 1391, 1401 (8th Cir. 1992).) Consequently, plaintiffs 
cannot claim that DiSette failed to inform them of the risks 
involved in the transaction. 


Plaintiffs also cannot prove that any misrepresentation 
occurred. Under the theories of negligent and intentional 
misrepresentation, a plaintiff must prove reliance. See Frame 
v. Boatmen's Bank, 782 S.W.2d 117, 121 (Mo. Ct. App. 
1989) (stating the elements for negligent misrepresentation); 
Marler v. House, 637 S.W.2d 365, 367 (Mo. Ct. App. 1982) 
(stating the elements for intentional misrepresentation). As 
discussed previously, this court has found as a matter of law 
that plaintiffs could not justifiably rely on alleged oral 
statements made by defendant DiSette. Therefore, plaintiffs 
cannot prove the necessary elements for misrepresentation. 


The court finds that plaintiffs are unable to show that 
DiSette breached any duty owed to them according to 
Missouri law. Plaintiffs claim that DiSette breached his duty 
by advising and encouraging plaintiffs to invest in high risk 
investments after analyzing their net worth and financial 
needs. Thus, plaintiffs appear to allege that DiSette owed 
them a duty to provide prudent investment advice. The 
Missouri Court of Appeals, however, has found that a broker 
must “manage the account in a manner directly comporting 
with the needs and objectives of the customer” only when the 
account is a discretionary one, that is when the broker has the 
authority to enter into investments without the approval of the 
investor. Vogel, 801 S.W.2d at 752. In this case, the 
accounts were non-discretionary. Plaintiffs had the ultimate 
decision of whether or not to proceed with the investments. 


A-25 


Plaintiffs may not impose a greater duty on DiSette than 
exists under Missouri law. Because plaintiffs cannot show 
that DiSette breached a duty owed to them under a non- 
discretionary account, the claim of negligence under Count III 
must fail and defendants” motion for summary judgment on 
this count is granted. 


B. Count I 


Count II of plaintiffs’ complaint is a claim for breach of 
fiduciary duty. The fiduciary duties owed by defendant 
DiSette to plaintiffs are set forth in the Vogel case which was 
discussed in the analysis of Count III of plaintiffs’ complaint. 
The discussion of Count III found that plaintiffs have failed 
to show that DiSette breached any of these duties. 
Consequently, defendants’ motion for summary judgment on 
Count II is granted. 


C. Count IV 


Count IV alleges that CIGNA was negligent in hiring and 
supervising DiSette and is derivative of claims against 
DiSette. Because this court has granted defendants’ motion 
for summary judgment on all counts alleged directly against 
DiSette, Count IV cannot survive. Therefore, defendants’ 
motion for summary judgment on Count IV is also granted. 


Accordingly, it is ORDERED that defendants’ renewed 
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 


/s/ Fernando J. Gaitan, Jr. 
Fernando J. Gaitan, Jr. 
United States District Judge 


Dated: March 29, 1994 
Kansas City, Missouri 


A-26 
APPENDIX F 


IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI 
WESTERN DIVISION 


No. 91-0642-CV-W-2 


DR. JOSEPH C. DEBLASE, at al., 
Plaintiff(s), 


V. 


CIGNA INDIVIDUAL FINANCIAL 
SERVICES COMPANY, et al., 
Defendant(s). 


JUDGMENT IN A CIVIL CASE 


Jury Verdict. This action came before the Court 
for a trial by jury. The issues have been tried 
and the jury has rendered its verdict. 


X Decision by Court. This action came before the 
Court. The issues have been determined and a 
decision has been rendered. 


IT IS ORDERED AND ADJUDGED 

that pursuant to the court’s order dated 11/17/93, 
defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED in 
part and DENIED in part. This order amended and 
superseded the court's order of 5/27/93; 


that pursuant to the court’s order of 3/29/94, defendant's 
renewed motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 


Le 


A-27 


March 29, 1994 R. F. Connor 
Date Clerk 


_/s{ Rhonda Ens 


(by) Deputy Clerk 


Entered on Mar 29, 1994 


rw 


| FILED 
” 
¢ MAY 5 

aoa No. 94-1746 / | OFFICE ur Ly 


Supreme Gow £ WS 


1999 


E CLERK 


IN THE 


Supreme Court of the Gnited States 


OCTOBER TERM, 1994 


DR. JOSEPH C. DEBLASE and BEN CERRA, 
Petitioners, 


Vv. 


CIGNA INDIVIDUAL FINANCIAL SERVICES 
COMPANY, CIGNA CORPORATION, CIGNA 
SECURITIES, INC., NICHOLAS DISETTE, 


Respondents. 


On Petition For A Writ Of Certiorari To The 
United States Court of Appeals 
For The Eighth Circuit 


RESPONDENTS’ BRIEF IN OPPOSITION 


Thomas E. Deacy, Jr.* Keith F. Bode 
Phillip B. Grubaugh Ellen R. Kordik 
Mark V. Wunder Hilda L. Piell 
DeEacy & DEACY JENNER & BLOCK 
1000 Bryant Building One IBM Plaza 
1102 Grand Avenue Chicago, Illinois 60611 


Kansas City, Missouri 64106 (312) 222-9350 
(816) 421-4000 


Attorneys for Respondents 
CIGNA Individual Financial 
Services Company, CIGNA 
Securities, Inc., and Nicholas 


*Counsel of Record DiSette 


i‘ 
QUESTIONS PRESENTED 


l. Whether this Court should grant certiorari in this 
diversity action to review a decision of the United States Court of 
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, affirming the District Court’s grant 
of summary judgment for respondents on petitioners’ Missouri 
common law and statutory claims which was based upon established 
principles of Missouri law. 


y & Whether the Court of Appeals erred in affirming 
summary judgment for respondents on petitioners’ state law claims 
where the petitioners claim that they believed they were purchasing 
safe and conservative investments, but the undisputed facts establish 
that the purchase agreements which petitioners signed, and the 
offering memoranda which petitioners acknowledged they received, 
disclosed that the investments were speculative and high-risk. 


-ij- 


PARTIES TO THE PROCEEDING 
IN THE COURT OF APPEALS 


The parties to this case in the United States Court of 
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, DeBlase v. CIGNA Individual 
Financial Services Co., No. 94-2250WMKC, were Joseph C. 
DeBlase and Ben Cerra, as plaintiffs-appellants, and CIGNA 
Individual Financial Services Co. ("CIFSCO"), CIGNA Securities, 
Inc. ("CSI"), and Nicholas DiSette, as defendants-appellees. 
Although named as a defendant in the action below, CIGNA 
Corporation was never served with a copy of the Amended 
Complaint and took no part in the proceedings. Accordingly, 
CIGNA Corporation is not a proper respondent to the petition. 


RULE 29.1 LISTING 


Subsequent to the filing of this litigation, CSI and 
CIFSCO merged to form CIGNA Financial Advisors, Inc., a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of Connecticut General Corporation, 
whose ultimate corporate parent is CIGNA Corporation. 


~ill- 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


PAGE 
i i 
Parties to the Proceeding in the Court of Appeals ..... . ll 
EEE SN oe li 
ee V 
I Se a i kk 2 
Statutes, Rules and Constitutional Provisions 
EE Ee ee 2 
a eee 2 
Reasons for Denying the Writ .................. 4 
I. Petitioners’ Reliance On The Missouri State 

Court Case Of Cochran v. Giddens Is Misplaced 

Because The Case Has Been Dismissed Without 

a oe 5 
II. Petitioners’ Contention That The Court Of 

Appeals Erred In Affirming Summary Judgment 

For Respondents Does Not Merit This 

A a i 6 
RSS TE a a G 


Appendix A: Order of the United States District 
Court for the Western District of 
Missouri dated May 25, 1993 ........ A-1 


Appendix B: Second Amended Order of the United 
States District Court for the 
Western District of Missouri dated 
| a. B-1 


Appendix C: Order of the United States District 
Court for the Western District of 
Missouri dated April 21,1994 ....... C-1 


-IV- 
PAGE 
| 
| Appendix D: Order of the Supreme Court of 
Missouri dated March 29,1995 ...... D-1 
| Appendix E: Statutes, Rules and Constitutional 

Provisions Involved ............s6-. E-1 


BS af" Res Sats 


path Sh el ss € 2: 


-\- 


TABLE OF AUTHORITIES 


Acme Propane, Inc. v. Tenexco, Inc., 844 F.2d 


Lea? CG GE ae eS eee nee eee. 


Brown v. E.F. Hutton Group, 991 F.2d 1020 (2d 


Ts. WE. a dc 64 6 as 6 UPR ee CA hes 


Cochran v. Giddens, 1994 WL 160351 (Mv. App. 


Re i ee 


Carroll v. Loy-Lange Box Co., 829 S.W.2d 86 


eo OF ee re er are 


Davidson v. Wilson, 973 F.2d 1391 (8th Cir. 1992) 


Foremost Guaranty Corp. v. Meritor Savings Bank, 


Pid) Fae 115 Ce Coe. BFR) wc es 


Kennedy v. Josephthal & Co., 814 F.2d 798 


tops ee eee eee ee. ee re ee ee 


McGonigle v. Combs, 968 F.2d 810 (9th Cir.), 


Cert. @am., 113 5. C2. SOP CIPD) www ee 


Mercantile Trust Co. v. Carp, 648 S.W.2d 920 


ie Be es fe ye ea 


Philmon v. Baum, 865 S§.W.2d 771 (Mo. 


De. 0a ok a Ok a eae 


Platsis v. E.F. Hutton & Co., 829 F.2d 13 (6th 


Cir. 1987), cert. denied, 485 U.S. 962 (1988) .. 
Ross v. Moffitt, 417 U.S. 600 (1974) ......... 


State v. Norman, 380 S.W.2d 406 (Mo. en banc 


og ee eee ee oe ee poe Br 


United States use of Bussen Quarries, Inc. v. 
Thomas , 938 F.2d 831 (8th Cir. 1991) ....... 


PAGE(S) 


-Vi- 


PAGE(S) 

Vogel v. A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., 801 S.W.2d 

NN: WU EE ig Wak aig, Elen & mp0 9. 8 
Zobrist v. Coal-X, Inc., 708 F.2d 1511 (10th 

a ee BA ee Eee ee ee ee eee ee ee 8 

STATUTES AND OTHER AUTHORITIES 

United States Supreme Court Rule 10 ............ 4 
Missouri Supreme Court Rule 83.09 ............. 6 
Missouri Merchandising Practices Act, R.S. Mo. 

fog fF fa ae ee ee re tar ee ee 3 
Pe Ee 25 eas cee shee cee es 3 


CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS 


Missouri Constitution, Art. V,§10 ............. 5 


a, 


No. 94-1746 


In The 
Supreme Court of the United States 
October Term, 1994 


DR. JOSEPH C. DEBLASE and BEN CERRA, 
Petitioners, 
Vv. 
CIGNA INDIVIDUAL FINANCIAL SERVICES 


COMPANY, CIGNA CORPORATION, CIGNA 
SECURITIES, INC., NICHOLAS DISETTE, 


Respondents. 


On Petition For A Writ Of Certiorari To The 
United States Court Of Appeals For The Eighth Circuit 


RESPONDENTS’ BRIEF IN OPPOSITION 


3 


OPINIONS BELOW 


The decisions of the United States Court of Appeals for 
the Eighth Circuit and the United States District Court for the 
Western District of Missouri are not reported. Copies of these 
decisions are attached to the petition as Appendices A through F. 


STATUTES, RULES AND CONSTITUTIONAL 
PROVISIONS INVOLVED 


Relevant Missouri statutory and constitutional provisions 
are set forth in Appendix E hereto. 


STATEMENT OF THE CASE 


In 1985-86, petitioners Joseph C. DeBlase and Ben Cerra 
(plaintiffs below) purchased interests in several tax-advantaged real 
estate and equipment leasing limited partnerships through 
respondent CSI. It is undisputed that prior to each purchase 
petitioners signed subscription agreements which plainly advised 
them that the partnership interests they were buying were 
"speculative," "high risk" investments whose financial benefits and 
ultimate success were inherently uncertain. In those same 
agreements, petitioners acknowledged in writing that they 
understood "the investments carried a high risk" and, further, that 
they had “received and read or reviewed" the private placement 
memoranda ("PPMs") for the investments. (Pet. App. C, A-11.} 
The PPMs contained exhaustive warnings and disclosures about the 
risks associated with the investments. For example, the PPMs 
“often began with capitalized, bold-faced warnings such as: THE 
INVESTMENT INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK." (/d. 
at A-9.) Thus, the documents that petitioners signed and 
acknowledged they received "unequivocally stated the inherent risk 
of the investments." (/d. at A-11.) 


| 


"Pet. App.” refers to the appendix to the petition. “App.” refers to the 
appendix to the brief in opposition to the petition. “Pet.” refers to the petition for 
a writ of certiorari. 


-% 


In 1991, following a decline in real estate markets 
nationwide, petitioners sued respondents in Missouri state court, 
asserting claims for common law fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, 
negligence, negligent supervision, and violation of the Missouri 
Merchandising Practices Act, R.S. Mo. § 407.020 et seg. Each 
claim was premised upon the allegation that respondents failed to 
disclose the risks inherent in petitioners’ investments. Respondents 
removed the action to the United States District Court for the 
Western District of Missouri pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1332. 


After full discovery, respondents moved for summary 
judgment on all five counts. On May 25, 1993, the District Court 
granted respondents’ motion, holding that petitioners’ claims failed 
as a matter of clearly established Missouri law because petitioners 
“had notice of the speculative nature of the investments" by virtue 
of the written risk disclosures in their signed subscription 
agreements and in the PPMs. (App. A-5.) As the District Court 
held, because petitioners signed documents disclosing the risks of 
their investments and acknowledging that they had received the 
PPMs, under Missouri law, they were bound by their signed 
acknowledgements. (Jd. at A-6.) On May 27, 1993, the District 
Court issued an Amended Order which specified that judgment was 
entered for respondents on all claims. (Pet. App. C, A-15 to A- 
16.) 


Following petitioners’ motion for reconsideration, the 
District Court issued a Second Amended Order on November 17, 
1993. The District Court affirmed the prior entry of summary 
judgment on petitioners’ common law and statutory fraud claims, 
but vacated the entry of summary judgment on petitioners’ 
negligence and breach of fiduciary duty claims. (App. B-1.) 
However, the court invited respondents to renew their motion with 
respect to those claims. (J/d.) 


Respondents filed a Renewed Motion for Summary 
Judgimeit, which addressed the claims for negligence and breach 
of fiduciary duty. On March 29, 1994, the District Court entered 
summary judgment for respondents on those claims. (Pet. App. E.) 
The Court held that petitioners’ negligence claims rested upon 


-4- 


alleged oral misrepresentations and, in the face of the 
comprehensive written disclosures petitioners acknowledged they 
had received, petitioners could not establish justifiable reliance upon 
those misrepresentations. (Jd. at A-24.) With respect to the breach 
of fiduciary duty claim, the Court held that petitioners had failed 
to show that respondents breached any duty owed to them under 
Missouri law. (Jd. at A-23, A-25.) Petitioners’ motion for 
reconsideration was denied by the District Court on April 21, 1994. 


(App. C.) 


Petitioners appealed the District Court’s orders granting 
summary judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the 
Eighth Circuit. On November 22, 1994, the Court of Appeals 
affirmed the District Court. (Pet. App. A.) Petitioners filed a 
petition for rehearing and suggestion of rehearing en banc, which 
was denied on January 19, 1995. (Pet. App. B.) This petition 
followed. 


REASONS FOR DENYING THE WRIT 


This Court will grant a writ of certiorari "only when there 
are special and important reasons therefor." Sup. Ct. Rule 10. 
Petitioners offer essentially two purported grounds for review, 
neither of which warrant consideration by this Court. First, 
petitioners claim that the Eighth Circuit should have deferred its 
ruling to await a decision by the Missouri Supreme Court in a case 
which the Missouri Supreme Court dismissed before decision. 
Second, petitioners claim that the District Court and the Eighth 
Circuit erred in granting and affirming summary judgment for 
respondents. Neither of these grounds presents a "special and 
important" issue worthy of this Court’s attention. Petitioners’ first 
argument is moot. As to petitioners’ second argument, the 
purported errors of which petitioners complain involve purely state 
law issues not appropriate for certiorari review and, in any event, 
were correctly decided under established principles of Missouri law. 
Accordingly, the petition for a writ of certiorari should be denied. 


-5- 


3. 


PETITIONERS’ RELIANCE ON THE MISSOURI STATE 
COURT CASE OF COCHRAN vy. GIDDENS 1S MISPLACED 
BECAUSE THAT CASE HAS BEEN DISMISSED WITHOUT 
OPINION. 


Petitioners rely on a memorandum opinion issued by the 
Missouri Court of Appeals in Cochran v. Giddens, 1994 WL 
160351 (Mo. App. May 3, 1994). According to petitioners, the 
decisions granting and affirming summary judgment for respondents 
in this case conflict with the Cochran "decision." (Pet. 11.) 
Petitioners further contend that because the Missouri Court of 
Appeals transferred the Cochran case to the Missouri Supreme 
Court for decision, the Eighth Circuit was required to stay its ruling 
pending that decision. Petitioners are wrong. 


The Missouri Court of Appeals never decided Cochran v. 
Giddens. That court only issued a memorandum opinion indicating 
how it "would" have decided the case, and instead transferred the 
case to the Missouri Supreme Court for ultimate decision. 1994 
WL 100351 at *4.% The Missouri Supreme Court dismissed the 
case on March 29, 1995 without issuing an opinion. (App. D.) 


Even if the Missouri Court of Appeals had actually 
decided the case, its opinion was vacated when the matter was 
transferred to the Missouri Supreme Court. See State v. Norman, 
380 S.W.2d 406, 407 (Mo. en banc 1964) ("By reason of the order 
transferring the cause to this Court, the opinion and decision of the 
St. Louis Court of Appeals was necessarily vacated and set aside 
and may be referred to as functus officio"). See also Mo. Const. 
Art. V, Sec. 10 ("The supreme court may finally determine all 
causes coming to it from the court of appeals, . . . the same as an 


2 The Court of Appeals’ memorandum in Cochran, which was fully 
discussed in both petitioners’ and respondents’ briefs filed in the Eighth Circuit, 
raised an entirely different issue than that raised here. It was concerned only with 
the question of when plaintiffs had notice of an alleged fraud for purposes of 
applying the Missouri statute of limitations; it did not address the issue of reliance. 


-6- 


original appeal"); Mo. S. Ct. Rule 83.09 (same); Philmon v. Baum, 
865 S.W.2d 771, 774 (Mo. App. 1993); Carroll v. Loy-Lange Box 
Co., 829 S.W.2d 86, 90 (Mo. App. 1992). Thus, even if the 
Missouri Court of Appeals had decided Cochran, that court’s 
opinion was vacated and "of no precedential effect." Carroll, 829 
S.W.2d at 90. 


Accordingly, there is no state court opinion in Cochran, 
and neither the orders of the District Court nor the per curiam 
opinion of the Eighth Circuit conflicts with any Missouri state court 
decision. Petitioner’s reliance on Cochran is thus misplaced and 
provides no basis for review by this Court.* 


Il. 


PETITIONERS’ CONTENTION THAT THE COURT OF 
APPEALS ERRED IN AFFIRMING SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
FOR RESPONDENTS DOES NOT MERIT THIS COURT’S 
REVIEW. 


Petitioners’ remaining arguments are, in effect, a litany 
of complaints that the District Court and the Court of Appeals erred 
when they granted and affirmed summary judgment for respondents. 
Specifically, petitioners complain that the lower courts erred in 
deciding that petitioners were bound by the risk disclosures in their 
signed subscription agreements and by their written 
acknowledgements that they had received and reviewed the PPMs, 
and thereby had knowledge of the high risk nature of the 
investments. (Pet. 9-15.) Petitioners also complain that the lower 
courts erred in ruling that petitioners failed to show that respondents 


2 Pursuant to Supreme Court Rule 15.1, respondents advise the Court 
that petitioners’ discussion of the status and legal effect of Cochran v. Giddens is 
inaccurate. The true status and effect of the Cochran case is as set forth above. 
In addition, the petition contains numerous other misstatements of fact and law. 
Because those misstatements do not alter the conclusion that petitioners do not and 
cannot establish a basis for review by this Court, respondents have not identified 
each individual misstatement, but instead have accurately set forth the dispositive, 
undisputed facts and the applicable law in this brief in opposition. 


x3 


breached any of the limited duties owed to petitioners. (Pet. 16- 
22.) 


Mere error by the court below normally does not provide 
a sufficient basis for granting a petition for writ of certiorari. 
Ross v. Moffitt, 417 U.S. 600, 616-17 (1974) ("This Court’s 
review . . . is discretionary and depends on numerous factors other 
than the perceived correctness of the judgment we are asked to 
review"). The petition presents no issue of federal law, no conflict 
among the circuits, nor any other question whose resolution by this 
Court would provide needed guidance to courts throughout the 
nation. The purported errors described by petitioners are of 
consequence to no one but petitioners. Therefore, they do not merit 
this Court’s attention. 


In any event, there was no error. All of petitioners’ 
arguments received full consideration by the courts below, which 
correctly decided that summary judgment was appropriate for 
respondents. Under Missouri law, petitioners are charged as a 
matter of law with knowledge of the contents of documents that 
they signed. See Mercantile Trust Co. v. Carp, 648 S.W.2d 920, 
924 (Mo. App. 1983) (person who signs a document is bound by 
its contents, whether he reads it or not); United States use of Bussen 
Quarries, Inc. v. Thomas, 938 F.2d 831, 833 (8th Cir. 1991) 
(same). Here, petitioners signed subscription agreements "that 
clearly indicated the high risk associated with the investments" (Pet. 
App. C, at A-8 n.8), and therefore had knowledge of the risks 
involved in the investments before they made their investments. 
Because petitioners knew the risks, they could not justifiably rely 
on any alleged contrary oral statements by respondents. Davidson 
v. Wilson, 973 F.2d 1391, 1401 (8th Cir. 1992) (affirming 
summary judgment for defendant because plaintiffs "may not 


-8- 


justifiably close their eyes to the written materials and rely only 
upon the oral statements"). Consequently, all of petitioners’ 
claims based upon allegations of fraud or negligence were correctly 
dismissed. 


For the same reasons, petitioners failed to show that 
respondents breached any duty owed to petitioners under Missouri 
law. Missouri imposes, at most, only limited duties on brokers who 
lack discretionary authority over a client’s investments. Vogel v. 
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., 801 S.W.2d 746, 752 (Mo. App. 
1990). Because the written offering and subscription materials fully 
disclosed all of the information petitioners claimed was concealed, 
the District Court correctly held that petitioners could not show that 
respondents breached any of the duties imposed by Vogel, and 
therefore could not establish claims for breach of fiduciary duty or 
negligence. 


Because petitioners present no "special and important” 
basis for granting certiorari, the petition should be denied. 


4/ 


: The federal courts of appeals that have addressed these issues 
uniformly have concluded that investors are bound by written risk disclosures 
contained in offering materials. See, e.g., Kennedy v. Josephthal & Co. , 814 F.2d 
798, 802-03 (1st Cir. 1987); Brown v. E.F. Hutton Group, 991 F.2d 1020, 1033 
(2d Cir. 1993); Foremost Guaranty Corp. v. Meritor Savings Bank, 910 F.2d 118, 
126 (4th Cir. 1990); Platsis v. E.F. Hutton & Co., 829 F.2d 13 (6th Cir. 1987), 
cert. denied, 485 U.S. 962 (1988); Acme Propane, Inc. v. Tenexco, Inc., 844 F.2d 
1317, 1322 (7th Cir. 1988); McGonigle v. Combs, 968 F.2d 810, 816-17 (9th 
Cir.), cert. dism., 113 S. Ct. 399 (1992); Zobrist v. Coal-X, Inc., 708 F.2d 1511, 
1518 (10th Cir. 1983). 


*Counsel of Record 


-9- 


CONCLUSION 


The petition for a writ of certiorari should be denied. 


Respectfully submitted, 


Thomas E. Deacy, Jr.* 
Phillip B. Grubaugh 

Mark V. Wunder 

DEACY & DEACY 

1000 Bryant Building 

1102 Grand Avenue 

Kansas City, Missouri 64106 
(816) 421-4000 


Keith F. Bode 

Ellen R. Kordik 

Hilda L. Piell 
JENNER & BLOCK 
One IBM Plaza 
Chicago, Illinois 60611 
(312) 222-9350 


Attorneys for Respondents 
CIGNA Individual Financial 
Services Company, CIGNA 
Securities, Inc., and 
Nicholas DiSette 


A-1l 
APPENDIX A 


IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI 
WESTERN DIVISION 


Dr. Joseph C. DeBlase and 
Ben Cerra, 


Plaintiffs, 


) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
VS. ) No. 91-0642-CV-W-2 
) 
Cigna Individual Financial ) 
Services, ef al., ) 

) 

) 


Defendants. 


ORDER 
I. Introduction 


Pending before the court is defendants’ motion for 
summary judgment. Plaintiffs are seeking to recover funds lost in 
various investments orchestrated by defendant, DiSette, who was 
allegedly acting within his capacity as an employee of the other 
three defendants (known collectively herein as Cigna). Plaintiffs 
filed this action in state court and defendants subsequently removed 
to federal court. On January 29, 1993, plaintiffs filed an Amended 
Complaint which states five counts: Count One alleges that DiSette, 
acting as an employee of Cigna, made fraudulent representations 
to plaintiffs concerning investments; Count Two alleges that 
DiSette, acting as an employee of Cigna, violated his fiduciary duty 
to plaintiffs; Count Three alleges as an alternative to Counts One 
and Two, that DiSette, acting as an employee of Cigna, acted 
negligently towards plaintiffs; Count Four alleges that Cigna was 
negligent in hiring and supervising DiSette; and Count Five alleges 


“The other named defendants are Cigna Individual Financial Services Company, 
Cigna Corporation and Cigna Securities. 


A-2 


that defendants’ actions were unlawful under the Missouri 
Merchandising Practices Act, specifically Mo. Rev. Stat. 
§ 407.020.1 (1986). Plaintiff also seeks punitive damages in 
Counts One, Two and Five. 


Defendants move for summary judgment arguing that: 
(1) Plaintiff DeBlase’s action is precluded (for the most part) by the 
controlling statute of limitations; and (2) Written disclosures to the 
plaintiffs negate all claims flowing from alleged oral representations 
made by DiSette to plaintiffs. 


II. Standards Governing Summary Judgment 


A movant is entitled to summary judgment pursuant to 
Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(c), "if the pleadings, depositions, answers to 
interrogatories, and admissions on file, together with the affidavits, 
if any, show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact 
and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of 
law.” 


The moving party bears the burden of proof. Aetna Life 
Ins. Co. v. Great National Corp., 818 F.2d 19, 20 (8th Cir. 1987). 
When considering a motion for summary judgment, the court must 
scrutinize the evidence in the light most favorable to the non- 
moving party, according the non-moving party the benefit of every 
factual inference and resolving all doubts as to the facts or existence 
of any material fact against the moving party. United States v. 
Conservation Chem. Co., 619 F. Supp. 162, 179-80 (W.D. Mo. 
1985). 


Recently, the Supreme Court has redefined the standards 
to be considered in ruling on summary judgment motions. Where, 
as in this case, the party moving for summary judgment does not 
bear the ultimate burden of persuasion at trial that party must take 
a prima facie showing “that there is an absence of evidence to 
support the non-moving party’s case." Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 
477 U.S. 317, 325 (1986). This burden is met when the moving 
party identifies those portions of the record demonstrating an 
absence of a genuine issue of material fact. Jd. at 323. 


If the moving party meets this requirement, the burden 
shifts to the non-moving party who must produce sufficient evidence 
to manifest a dispute as to the material facts. To successfully meet 
this burden the party opposing summary judgment "must do more 


A-3 


than simply show that there is some metaphysical doubt as to the 
material facts." Matsushita Elec. Indus. Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 
475 U.S. 574, 586 (1986). Rather, the party “must set forth 
specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue for trial." 
Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 474 U.S. 242, 248 (1986). 
Finally, "[iJn assessing whether a material fact 1s subject to a 
genuine dispute, a court should employ a standard essentially 
identical to that governing a motion for directed verdict under Rule 
50(a)." Id. at 250. Ifa rational trier-of-fact, considering the record 
as a whole, could not find in favor of the non-moving party, then 
a trial is unnecessary. Matsushita, 475 U.S. at 586. 


III. Analysis 


Defendants attack plaintiffs’ claims on two fronts. First, 
defendants contend that all of plaintiff DeBlase’s claims arising out 
of investments made before 1986 (eight of the ten investments made 
by DeBlase) are time-barred by Mo. Rev. Stat. § 516.120 (1986) 
(five year statute of limitations triggered by notice of alleged fraud). 
Second, defendants attack the allegation underlying all of the 
plaintiffs’ claims arguing that no fraud or misrepresentation exists 
as a matter of law.” Both of defendants’ arguments turn on the 
issue of notice. The answer to a single question will ultimately 
decide both prongs of defendants’ motion: When were plaintiffs 
put on notice that the investments were not low-risk, stable 
investments but were volatile and speculative in nature??/ 


2 The primary allegation undergirding plaintiffs’ claims is that the defendants, 
through DiSette, made material and fraudulent oral representations concerning the 
degree of risk and stability of the investments made by plaintiffs. All claims are 
inherently linked to this allegation. Therefore, defendants seek to invalidate all 
of plaintiffs’ claims by challenging this primary allegation. 

* The answer to this question will resolve the issues presented by both prongs 
of defendants’ motion. The point in time that DeBlase was given notice of the true 
nature of the investments will mark the beginning of the statute of limitations 
period. Further, if notice of the high risk nature of the investments preceded, or 
was contemporaneous with, the investments, plaintiffs’ misrepresentation claims 
must fail as a matter of law. 


A-4 


Defendants contend that the “offering materials"* provided to 
plaintiffs (prior to, or at the time of, investment) clearly and 
unequivocally gave plaintiffs notice that the investments were high 
risk and not stable. Plaintiffs argue that, at a minimum, there is 
a genuine dispute of fact concerning when they received notice of 
the investment’s risks. 


There is no dispute that plaintiffs signed subscription 
agreements contemporaneously with each investment. Defendants 
contend that these subscription agreements provided the critical 
notice to plaintiffs in two respects. First, in most cases the express 
terms of the agreements themselves stated that the investments were 
high risk.2 Second, the subscription agreements, in one form or 
another, provided that plaintiffs had "received and read or 
reviewed" each PPM (detailing the high risk nature of the 
investments) accompanying the individual investments. The PPMs 
leave no doubt as to the high risk, speculative nature of the limited 
partnership investments.® Indeed, the PPMs often began with 
capitalized, bold-faced warnings such as: THE INVESTMENT 
INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. Further, throughout the 


* Defendants define the “offering materials” as written disclosures provided to 
plaintiffs including an investor questionnaire, a subscription agreement and a 
private placement memorandum (a document similar to a prospectus, referred to 
hereafter as a "PPM”"). 


* The following subscription agreements (attached as exhibits to Defendants’ 
Suggestions in Support of the Motion for Summary Judgment) signed by DeBlase 
clearly indicated the high risk associated with the investments: Exhibit F-1, p. 
D-3 { 4(k)(i); Exhibit F-2, p. D-3 ¢ 4(k)(i); Exhibit F-3, p. C-3 ¢ 4¢k)(i); Exhibit 
F-4, p. D-3 ¢ 4(k)(i); Exhibit F-5, p. C-3 ¢ 5()(i); Exhibit F-7, p. E-2 ¢ 30)(i): 
Exhibit F-9, p. B-5 {4 4(j) & 4(1); and Exhibit F-10, p. IV-6 4 8 & 20. Those 
signed by Cerra stating the risks involved are: Exhibit G-1, p. B-5 [4 4(j) & 4()): 
Exhibit G-2, p. IV-6 44 8 & 20; and Exhibit G-4, p. 3 { 3(b). 


* The PPMs associated with the DeBlase investments repeatedly indicated the 
high risk involved with these investments. See Exhibit F-1, pp. (ii) & 32; Exhibit 
F-2, pp. (ii) & 30; Exhibit F-3, p. (iii); Exhibit F-4, p. (ii); Exhibit F-5, pp. (iv-v) 
& 45; Exhibit F-6, pp. (i) & 19; Exhibit F-7, pp. (i) & 26; Exhibit F-8, pp. (i) 
& 27; Exhibit F-9, pp. v & 45; and Exhibit F-10, cover page and pp. (i) & 49. 
The PPMs associated with Cerra’s investments also clearly stated the risks 
involved. See Exhibit G-1, pp. v & 45; Exhibit G-2, cover page and pp. (i) & 
49: Exhibit G-3, pp. (i) & 27; Exhibit G-4, pp. (i) & 18; and Exhibit G-5S, pp. 
(ii) & 48-49. 


-_ ooo ee 


A-5 


text of the various PPMs the speculative nature of the investments 
was Clearly and redundantly manifested. 


To grant summary judgment in favor of defendants, the 
court must ultimately find that the only conclusion that a rational 
trier-of-fact could reach is that plaintiffs had notice of the 
speculative nature of the investments prior to, or at the time of, 
investment (or in the case of DeBlase, beyond the statute of 
limitations). See generally Matsushita, 475 U.S. at 586. The 
linchpin of defendants’ motion is the claim that the signed 
subscription agreements establish, as a matter of law, that plaintiffs 
invested money with full notice of the true nature of the 
investments. With full disclosure to plaintiffs of the risks involved 
in these investments, defendants argue that plaintiffs’ claims of 
misrepresentation and fraud must fail as a matter of law. The court 
agrees and will grant the motion for summary judgment 
accordingly. 


Plaintiffs’ defense to the motion is that they signed the 
subscription agreements without reading the offering materials and 
that DiSette "went to great lengths to conceal material information 
from the plaintiffs." Plaintiffs’ Suggestions in Opposition to the 
Motion for Summary Judgment, p. 15. That is, DiSette allegedly 
assured plaintiffs that they did not need to read the offering 
materials and thereby deceitfully deprived them of the knowledge 
contained in the written disclosures. "[BJoth plaintiffs have testified 
that they often time were not even given an opportunity to read the 
entire document, and [were] simply presented with a stack of 
documents with post-it notes indicating where they should sign. 
DeBlase even testified that there were occasions when the only page 
he received of the multi-page documents was the one which he was 
to sign." Plaintiffs’ Suggestions in Opposition to the Motion for 
Summary Judgment, p. 14 (emphasis in original). The court rejects 
plaintiffs’ argument. 


The subscription agreements and the PPMs unequivocally 
stated the inherent risk of the investments. Plaintiffs had full 
knowledge of the existence of all these documents (they signed the 
subscription agreements and the agreements clearly referenced the 
PPMs) and simply chose not to review them. There has been no 
evidence that DiSette refused to produce these documents upon 
request, prevented plaintiffs from examining these documents or 


A-6 


otherwise concealed their existence. Instead, plaintiffs seem to infer 
that DiSette’s alleged assurances that plaintiffs need not review 
these documents somehow prevented them from examining the 
documents. The court cannot agree. Knowing that these documents 
existed, plaintiffs made a conscious choice not to bother themselves 
with the specific information available to them. Rather, plaintiffs 
signed the subscription agreements without review and now claim 
that their reliance on the alleged oral assurances of DiSette should 
insulate them from the disclosures made in the agreements. This 
position is untenable. 


"Under Missouri law, a person who has an opportunity 
to read a document but signs it without doing so is held to have 
knowledge of the document’s contents, absent a showing of fraud." 
United States of America for the use of Bussen Quarries, Inc. v. 
Thomas , 938 F.2d 831, 833 (8th Cir. 1991). Plaintiffs have failed 
to make any showing that fraud prevented them from understanding 
what the subscription agreements clearly stated; specifically, that 
the investments carried a high risk and that plaintiffs had "received 
and read or reviewed" the PPMs. The Bussen Quarries 
presumption is not invalidated simply because some kind of alleged 
fraud either created a misapprehension as to the meaning or effect 
of the signed agreement, or induced plaintiffs to sign. The fraud 
alleged by plaintiffs does not affect the validity of the signed 
subscription agreements and therefore plaintiffs are deemed to have 
full knowledge of the subscription agreements and PPMs.” 


Further, this court finds the Eighth Circuit’s decision in 
Davidson v. Wilson, 973 F.2d 1391 (8th Cir. 1992), dispositive of 


2 Plaintiffs seem to argue two related manifestations of the alleged fraud: (1) 
That plaintiffs should rely totally on DiSette without reading the offering materials; 
and (2) The original statements of DiSette concerning the low-risk nature and 
stability of the investments. The court finds that plaintiffs have not set forth 
specific facts showing that DiSette represented that the investments were stable 
and low risk. However, even assuming that these representations did occur does 
not allow plaintiff to overcome the Bussen Quarries presumption. Fraud as to the 
speculative nature of the investments did not prevent DeBlase from understanding . 
the content or effect of the subscription agreements, nor did it fraudulently induce 
plaintiffs to sign. Further, while DiSette’s alleged assurances to plaintiffs may 
have been poor counsel, it does not rise to the level of fraud. Accordingly, the 
court finds that plaintiff have failed to show any possible fraud foreclosing the 
Bussen Quarries presumption. 


A-7 


plaintiffs’ argument. In Davidson, the court was faced with two 
investors suing the agent, and the securities company employing the 
agent, that sold them shares in a high risk limited partnership. Jd. 
at 1392. The plaintiffs alleged fraud because the investments did 
not meet alleged oral representations made by defendants. /d. 
However, the plaintiffs received and signed subscription agreements 
prior to making the investments. Jd. at 1399. These agreements 
made clear the risky nature of the investments and also referenced 
other documents disclosing the risks involved. Jd. at 1396-1400. 


The district court granted defendants’ motion for summary 
judgment, holding that the plaintiffs "may not justifiably close their 
eyes to the written materials and rely only upon the oral statements, 
and that [plaintiffs] accordingly are charged with constructive 
knowledge of the written materials available to them." /d. at 1398. 
The Eighth Circuit affirmed, finding that: 


a sophisticated investor, confronted with a written 
document which contained repeated references to two 
other documents . . . and that also contained explicit 
disclaimers . . . did not justifiably rely upon any 
contradictory oral representations. There was ample 
reason for [plaintiffs] to take the position, that they 
would not move ahead and make investment payments 
until such references and representations were clarified 
to their satisfaction. Thus, we agree with the district 
court that, based upon the facts of this case, [plaintiffs’] 
claimed reliance upon [defendant’s] oral representations 
was unjustifiable as a matter of law. 


Id. at 1401. 


The factual and legal similarities between this action and 
Davidson compel an identical result. Admittedly, plaintiffs DeBlase 
and Cerra are not as financially sophisticated as the investors in 
Davidson, but neither are they unsophisticated.” Plaintiff DeBlase 
is highly educated with significant experience in investing and 


* Plaintiffs have set forth considerable facts in an effort to establish their 
financial unsophistication. However, the significance of sophistication is muted 
by the patent and unequivocal risk disclosures in the subscription agreements and 
PPMs. The court finds that no great degree of sophistication was needed to be 
aware of the speculative nature of plaintiffs’ investments. 


A-8 


financial matters. Deposition of Joseph DeBlase, pp. 33-34, 47, 
48, 56, 64, 66, 68 & 72-73. Plaintiff Cerra has owned and 
operated two successful construction corporations for a number of 
years.* Deposition of Ben Cerra, p. 10-13. Armed with a 
reasonable degree of business sophistication, plaintiffs were 
confronted with subscription agreements containing explicit 
disclaimers as to risk and/or referencing additional risk-disclosing 
documents. Plaintiffs made a knowing and intelligent waiver of 
their right to review these materials before investing and relied 
blindly on the alleged oral representations of DiSette. Given these 
facts, the court must find that plaintiffs’ "claimed reliance upon 
[defendant’s] oral representations was unjustifiable as a matter of 
law." Jd. at 1401.% 


2 Plaintiff Cerra also indicated on one subscription agreement that "I have such 


knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and in tax-oriented 
investments in particular that I am capable of evaluating the merits and risks of 
an investments in the securities." Defendants’ Suggestions in Support of the 
Mouton for Summary Judgment, Exhibit G-5, p. A-1-7. 

ie The court in Davidson reviewed the plaintiffs’ claim of justifiable 
reliance within the analytical framework set forth in Zobrist v. Coal-X, Inc. , 708 
F.2d 1511 (10th Cir. 1983). In reviewing claims of justifiable reliance, the 
relevant factors are: 


(1) the sophistication and expertise of the plaintiff in financial and 
securities matters; (2) the existence of long standing business or 
personal relationships; (3) access to the relevant information; (4) the 
existence of a fiduciary relationship; (5) concealment of the fraud; (6) 
the opportunity to detect the fraud; (7) whether the plaintiff initiated 
the stock transaction or sought to expedite the transaction; and (8) the 
generality or specificity of the misrepresentations. 


Davidson, 973 F.2d at 1400 (quoting Zobrist, 708 F.2d at 1516). In addition to 
finding plaintiffs reasonably sophisticated in financial matters, this court finds the 
other factors weigh heavily in favor of granting the motion for summary judgment. 
Most significantly, the court finds that plaintiffs had full access to the relevant 
information (although they chose to ignore the materials); it cannot reasonably be 
found that DiSette concealed this information; and plaintiffs had every opportunity 
to detect the alleged fraud by simply reading the documents they signed and/or 
represented that they had reviewed. Further, while DeBlase offers some evidence 
of a personal relationship with DiSette, neither plaintiff sets forth facts establishing 
a fiduciary relationship. Under Missouri law, a confidential or fiduciary 

(continued...) 


A-9 


IV. Conclusion 


As a matter of law, plaintiffs cannot justifiably rely on the 
alleged oral representations of Disette. Rather, pursuant to the 
Bussen Quarries presumption and the holding in Davidson v. 
Wilson, the plaintiffs had actual (or at a minimum constructive 
knowledge) of the high risk, speculative nature of the limited 
partnerships at the time of investment. It follows then that both 
prongs of defendants’ motion for summary judgment are valid. See 
supra note 3 & accompanying text. Accordingly, it is ORDERED 
that defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 


Fernando J. Gaitan, Jr. 
United States District Judge 
Dated: May 25, 1993 
Kansas City, Missouri 


2’ (...continued) 
relationship exists where one party, through ignorance (such as ignorance 
concerning finance and investments), "has become subservient to the dominant will 
of another, that the property of the subservient person has come into the possession 
or management of the dominant person, that the subservient person has surrendered 
his independence, and that there has been manipulation of the actions of the 
subservient party who has piaced has trust and confidence in the dominant person. " 
Neal v. Sparks, 773 S.W.2d 481, 486 (Mo. Ct. App. 1989). No facts offered by 
plaintiffs would support a finding that they had surrendered their independence to 
DiSette. 

In weighing all of the Zobrist factors applied in Davidson, this court 
finds that plaintiffs are not, as a matter of law, entitled to the protections of 
justifiable reliance. 


= ee eg ee eae Na a ge ee at Se te ee - 


B-1 


APPENDIX B 


IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI 
WESTERN DIVISION 


Dr. Joseph C. DeBlase and ) 
Ben Cerra, ) 
) 

Plaintiffs, ) 

) 

VS. ) No. 91-0642-CV-W-2 

) 

Cigna Individual Financial ) 
Services, et al., ) 
) 

Defendanis. ) 


SECOND AMENDED ORDER 


On May 27, 1993 this court issued an order granting 
defendants’ motion for summary judgment as to all counts of 
plaintiffs’ claim. On June 9, 1993 plaintiffs filed a motion for 
reconsideration of the May 27 Order and a motion for leave to file 
suggestions exceeding fifteen pages in support of their motion for 
reconsideration. Upon a showing of good cause and there being no 
opposition by the defendant, plaintiff's motion to file suggestions 
exceeding fifteen pages is granted. 


In deciding plaintiff's motion for reconsideration of the 
summary judgment Order of May 27, 1993, the court finds that 
defendants’ motion for summary judgment, although directed at all 
of plaintiffs’ claims, centered on the issue of reasonable reliance 
with regards to the fraud claims in Count I and V of plaintiffs’ 
complaint. Defendants did not, however, set forth sufficient 
arguments with regards to the claims in Counts II through IV to 
warrant granting summary judgment. 


Consequently, the May 27, 1993 Order for summary 
judgment is rescinded as to Counts II through IV. If defendants 
wish to renew their motion for summary judgment on these counts 


B-2 


they must file a motion which addresses these claims specifically. 
The Order of May 27, 1993 is amended as follows. 


I. Introduction 


Plaintiffs are seeking to recover funds lost in various 
investments orchestrated by defendant, DiSette, who was allegedly 
acting within his capacity as an employee of the other three 
defendants (known collectively herein as Cigna).+ Plairtirfs filed 
this action in state court and defendants subsequently removed to 
federal court. On January 29, 1993, plaintiffs filed an Amended 
Complaint which states five counts: Count One alleges that DiSette, 
acting as an employee of Cigna, made fraudulent representations 
to plaintiffs concerning investments; Count Two alleges that 
DiSette, acting as an employee of Cigna, violated his fiduciary duty 
to plaintiffs; Count Three alleges as an alternative to Counts One 
and Two, that DiSette, acting as an employee of Cigna, acted 
negligently towards plaintiffs; Count Four alleges that Cigna was 
negligent in hiring and supervising DiSette; and Count Five alleges 
that defendants’ actions were unlawful under the Missouri 
Merchandising Practices Act, specifically Mo. Rev. Stat. 
§ 407.020.1 (1986). Plaintiff also seeks punitive damages in 
Counts One, Two and Five. 


Defendants move for summary judgment arguing that: 
(1) Plaintiff DeBlase’s action is precluded (for the most part) by the 
controlling statute of limitations; and (2) Written disclosures to the 
plaintiffs negate all claims flowing from alleged oral representations 
made by DiSette to plaintiffs. 


II. Standards Governing Summary Judgment 


A movant is entitled to summary judgment pursuant to 
Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(c), "if the pleadings, depositions, answers to 
interrogatories, and admissions on file, together with the affidavits, 
if any, show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact 
and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of 
law." 


+ The other named defendants are Cigna Individual Financial Services Company, 


Cigna Corporation and Cigna Securities. 


B-3 


The moving party bears the burden of proof. Aetna Life 
Ins. Co. v. Great National Corp. , 818 F.2d 19, 20 (8th Cir. 1987). 
When considering a motion for summary judgment, the court must 
scrutinize the evidence in the light most favorable to the non- 
moving party, according the non-moving party the benefit of every 
factual inference and resolving all doubts as to the facts or existence 
of any material fact against the moving party. United States v. 
Conservation Chem. Co., 619 F. Supp. 162, 179-80 (W.D. Mo. 
1985). 


Recently, the Supreme Court has redefined the standards 
to be considered in ruling on summary judgment motions. Where, 
as in this case, the party moving for summary judgment does not 
bear the ultimate burden of persuasion at trial that party must make 
a prima facie showing "that there is an absence of evidence to 
support the non-moving party’s case." Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 
477 U.S. 317, 325 (1986). This burden is met when the moving 
party identifies those portions of the record demonstrating an 
absence of a genuine issue of material fact. Jd. at 323. 


If the moving party meets this requirement, the burden 
shifts to the non-moving party who must produce sufficient evidence 
to manifest a dispute as to the material facts. To successfully meet 
this burden the party opposing summary judgment "must do more 
than simply show that there is some metaphysical doubt as to the 
material facts." Matsushita Elec. Indus. Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 
475 U.S. 574, 586 (1986). Rather, the party “must set forth 
specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue for trial." 
Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 474 U.S. 242, 248 (1986). 
Finally, “[iJn assessing whether a material fact is subject to a 
genuine dispute, a court should employ a standard essentially 
identical to that governing a motion for directed verdict under Rule 
50(a)." Id. at 250. Ifa rational trier-of-fact, considering the record 
as a whole, could not find in favor of the non-moving party, then 
a trial is unnecessary. Matsushita, 475 U.S. at 586. 


Ill. Analysis 


Defendants attack plaintiffs’ claim on two fronts. First, 
defendants contend that the five year statute of limitations for all 
of plaintiff DeBlase’s claims arising out of investments made before 
1986 (eight of the ten investments made by DeBlase) was triggered 
by notice of the alleged misrepresentation. Second, defendants 


B-4 


attack the allegation underlying all of plaintiffs’ claims, arguing that 
no fraud or misrepresentation exists as a matter of law.* 


Defendants’ contention that the statute of limitations for 
all of plaintiffs’ claims begins with notice of the alleged 
misrepresentation is erroneous. The statute of limitations for the 
claims based on fraud in Counts I and V is triggered by discovery 
of fraud. Mo. Rev. Stat. § 516.120(5). The statute of limitations 
for plaintiffs’ claims of breach of fiduciary duty and negligence, 
however, commences when damages are sustained. Mo. Rev. Stat. 
§ 516.100. 


A. Summary Judgment on Counts I and V 


Plaintiffs’ claims in Counts I and V sound in fraud. 
Count I alleges that DiSette made fraudulent representations. Count 
V alleges that defendants violated the Missouri Merchandising 
Practices Act.* Because plaintiffs’ claim for violation of the 
Merchandising Practices Act hinges on the allegations that DiSette 
made material and fraudulent misrepresentations to plaintiffs, Count 
V is also dependent on the existence of fraud or misrepresentation. 


Both of defendants’ arguments regarding the fraud claims 
in Counts I and V turn on the issue of notice. The answer to a 
single question will ultimately decide both prongs of defendants’ 
motion regarding these claims: When were plaintiffs put on notice 
that the investments were not low-risk, stable investments but were 
volatile and speculative in nature?* Defendants contend that the 


2 The primary allegation undergirding plaintiffs’ claims is that the defendants, 
through DiSette, made material and fraudulent oral representations concerning the 
degree of risk and stability of the investments made by plaintiffs. All claims are 
inherently linked to this allegation. Therefore, defendants seek to invalidate all 
of plaintiffs’ claims by challenging this primary allegation. 


2 The Missouri Merchandising Practices Act prohibits “deception, fraud, false 
pretenses, false promise, misrepresentation, unfair practice or the concealment, 
suppression, or omission of any material fact in connection with the sale or 
advertisement of any merchandise.” Mo. Rev. Stat. § 407.020.1. 


4 


The answer to this question will resolve the issues presented by both prongs 
of defendants’ motion. The point in time that DeBlase was given notice of the true 
nature of the investments will mark the beginning of the statute of limitations 
(continued...) 


oS i ol 


B-5 


“offering materials"* provided to plaintiffs (prior to, or at the time 
of, investment) clearly and unequivocally gave plaintiffs notice that 
the investments were high risk and not stable. Plaintiffs argue that, 
at a minimum, there is a genuine dispute of fact concerning when 
they received notice of the investment’s risks. 


There is no dispute that plaintiffs signed subscription 
agreements contemporaneously with each investment. Defendants 
contend that these subscription agreements provided the critical 
notice to plaintiffs in two respects. First, in most cases the express 
terms of the agreements themselves stated that the investments were 
high risk. Second, the subscription agreements, in one form or 
another, provided that plaintiffs had “received and read or 
reviewed" each PPM (detailing the high risk nature of the 
investments) accompanying the individual investments. The PPMs 
leave no doubt as to the high risk, speculative nature of the limited 
partnership investments.” Indeed, the PPMs often began with 


+  (...continued) 


period for fraud. Further, if notice of the high risk nature of the investments 
preceded, or was contemporaneous with, the investments, plaintiffs’ fraud and 
misrepresentation claims must fail as a matter of law. 


* Defendants define the “offering materials” as written disclosures provided to 
plaintiffs including an investor questionnaire, a subscription agreement and a 
private placement memorandum (a document similar to a prospectus, referred to 
hereafter as a "PPM”). 


* The following subscription agreements (attached as exhibits to Defendants’ 
Suggestions in Support of the Motion for Summary Judgment) signed by DeBlase 
clearly indicated the high risk associated with the investments: Exhibit F-1, p. 
D-3 4 4(k)(i); Exhibit F-2, p. D-3 4 4(k)(i); Exhibit F-3, p. C-3 | 4(k)(i); Exhibit 
F-4, p. D-3 { 4(k)(i); Exhibit F-5, p. C-3 { 5()(i); Exhibit F-7, p. E-2 4 3()(i): 
Exhibit F-9, p. B-S {4 4(j) & 4(1); and Exhibit F-10, p. IV-6 44 8 & 20. Those 
signed by Cerra stating the risks involved are: Exhibit G-1, p. B-5 {4 4(j) & 4(1): 
Exhibit G-2, p. IV-6 44 8 & 20; and Exhibit G4, p. 3 { 3(). 


- The PPMs associated with the DeBlase investments repeatedly indicated the 
high risk involved with these investments. See Exhibit F-1, pp. (ii) & 32: Exhibit 
F-2, pp. (ii) & 30; Exhibit F-3, p. (iii); Exhibit F-4, p. (ii); Exhibit F-5, pp. (iv-v) 
& 45; Exhibit F-6, pp. (i) & 19: Exhibit F-7, pp. (i) & 26; Exhibit F-8. pp. (i) 
& 27; Exhibit F-9, pp. v & 45; and Exhibit F-10, cover page and pp. (i) & 49 
The PPMs asscciated with Cerra’s investments also clearly stated the risks 

(continued...) 


B-6 


capitalized, bold-faced warnings such as: THE INVESTMENT 
INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. Further, throughout 
the text of the various PPMs the speculative nature of the 
investments was clearly and redundantly manifested. 


To grant summary judgment in favor defendants, the court 
must ultimately find that the only conclusion that a rational trier-of- 
fact could reach is that plaintiffs had notice of the speculative nature 
of the investments prior to, or at the time of, investment (or in the 
case of DeBlase, beyond the statute of limitations). See generally 
Matsushita, 475 U.S. at 586. The linchpin of defendants’ motion 
is the claim that the signed subscription agreements establish, as a 
matter of law, that plaintiffs invested money with full notice of the 
true nature of the investments. With full disclosure to plaintiffs of 
the risks involved in these investments, defendants argue that 
plaintiffs’ claims of misrepresentation and fraud must fail as a 
matter of law. The court agrees and will grant the motion for 
summary judgment accordingly. 


Plaintiffs’ defense to the motion is that they signed the 
subscription agreements without reading the offering materials and 
that DiSette "went to great lengths to conceal material information 
from the plaintiffs." Plaintiffs’ Suggestions in Opposition to the 
Motion for Summary Judgment, p. 15. That is, DiSette allegedly 
assured plaintiffs that they did not need to read the offering 
materials and thereby deceitfully deprived them of the knowledge 
contained in the written disclosures. "[BJoth plaintiffs have testified 
that they often time were not even given an opportunity to read the 
entire document, and [were] simply presented with a stack of 
documents with post-it notes indicating where they should sign. 
DeBlase even testified that there were occasions when the only page 
he received of the multi-page documents was the one which he was 
to sign." Plaintiffs’ Suggestions in Opposition to the Motion for 
Summary Judgment, p. 14 (emphasis in original). The court 
rejected plaintiffs’ argument. 


2 (...continued) 

involved. See Exhibit G-1, pp. v & 45; Exhibit G-2, cover page and pp. (i) & 
49; Exhibit G-3, pp. (i) & 27; Exhibit G-4, pp. (i) & 18; and Exhibit G-5, pp. 
(ii) & 48-49. 


B-7 


The subscription agreements and the PPMs unequivocally 
stated the inherent risk of the investments. Plaintiffs had full 
knowledge of the existence of all these documents (they signed the 
subscription agreements and the agreements clearly referenced the 
PPMs) and simply chose not to review them. There has been no 
evidence that DiSette refused to produce these documents upon 
request, prevented plaintiffs from examining these documents or 
otherwise concealed their existence. Instead, plaintiffs seem to infer 
that DiSette’s alleged assurances that plaintiffs need not review 
these documents somehow prevented them from examining the 
documents. The court cannot agree. Knowing that these documents 
existed, plaintiffs made a conscious choice not to bother thernselves 
with the specific information available to them. Rather, plaintiffs 
signed the subscription agreements with~:t review and now claim 
that their reliance on the alleged oral assurances of DiSette should 
insulate them from the disclosures made in the agreements. This 
position is untenable. 


"Under Missouri law, a person who has an opportunity 
to read a document but signs it without doing so is held to have 
knowledge of the document’s contents, absent a showing of fraud.” 
United States of America for the use of Bussen Quarries, Inc. vy. 
Thomas, 938 F.2d 831, 833 (8th Cir. 1991). Plaintiffs have failed 
to make any showing that fraud prevented them from understanding 
what the subscription agreements clearly stated; specifically, that 
the investments carried a high risk and that plaintiffs had "received 
and read or reviewed" the PPMs. The Bussen Quarries 
presumption is not invalidated simply because some kind of alleged 
fraud exists in the action. Rather, this court understands Bussen 
Quarries to mean that the presumption is valid unless the alleged 
fraud either created a misapprehension as to the meaning or effect 
of the signed agreement, or induced plaintiffs to sign. The fraud 
alleged by plaintiffs does not affect the validity of the signed 
subscription agreements and therefore plaintiffs are deemed to have 
full knowledge of the subscription agreements and PPMs.® 


* Plaintiffs seem to argue two related manifestations of the alleged fraud: (1) 


That plaintiffs should rely totally on DiSette without reading the offering materials; 
and (2) The original statements of DiSette concerning the low-risk nature and 
Stability of the investments. The court finds that plaintiffs have not set forth 

(continued...) 


B-8 


Further, this court finds the Eighth Circuit’s decision in 
Davidson v. Wilson, 973 F.2d 1391 (8th Cir. 1992), dispositive of 
plaintiffs’ argument. In Davidson, the court was faced with two 
investors Suing the agent, and the securities company employing the 
agent, that sold them shares in a high risk limited partnership. /d. 
at 1392. The plaintiffs alleged fraud because the investments did 
not meet alleged oral representations made by defendants. /d. 
However, the plaintiffs received and signed subscription agreements 
prior to making the investments. /d. at 1399. These agreements 
made clear the risky nature of the investments and also referenced 
other documents disclosing the risks involved. Jd. at 1396-1400. 


The district court granted defendants’ motion for summary 
judgment, holding that the plaintiffs "may not justifiably close their 
eyes to the written materials and rely only upon the oral statements, 
and that [plaintiffs] accordingly are charged with constructive 
knowledge of the written materials available to them." /d. at 1398. 
The Eighth Circuit affirmed, finding that: 


a sophisticated investor, confronted with a written 
document which contained repeated references to two 
other documents . . . and that also contained explicit 
disclaimers . . . did not justifiably rely upon any 
contradictory oral representations. There was ample 
reason for [plaintiffs] to take the position, that they 
would not move ahead and make investment payments 
until such references and representations were clarified 
to their satisfaction. Thus, we agree with the district 
court that, based upon the facts of this case, [plaintiffs’] 
claimed reliance upon [defendant’s] oral representations 
was unjustifiable as a matter of law. 


-  (...continued) 

specific facts showing that DiSette represented that the investments were stable 
and low risk. However, even assuming that these representations did occur does 
not allow plaintiff to overcome the Bussen Quarries presumption. Fraud as to the 
speculative nature of the investments did not prevent DeBlase from understanding 
the content or effect of the subscription agreements, nor did it fraudulently induce 
plaintiffs to sign. Further, while DiSette’s alleged assurances to plaintiffs may 
have been poor counsel, it does not rise to the level of fraud. Accordingly, the 
court finds that plaintiff have failed to show any possible fraud foreclosing the 
Bussen Quarries presumption. 


eet iy 


B-9 


Id. at 1401. 


The factual and legal similarities between this action and 
Davidson compel an identical result. Admittedly, plaintiffs DeBlase 
and Cerra are not as financially sophisticated as the investors in 
Davidson, but neither are they unsophisticated.2 Plaintiff DeBlase 
is highly educated with significant experience in investing and 
financial matters. Deposition of Joseph DeBlase, pp. 33-34, 47, 
48, 56, 64, 66, 68 & 72-73. Plaintiff Cerra has owned and 
operated two successful construction corporations for a number of 
years.“ Deposition of Ben Cerra, p. 10-13. Armed with a 
reasonable degree of business sophistication, plaintiffs were 
confronted with subscription agreements containing explicit 
disclaimers as to risk and/or referencing additional risk-disclosing 
documents. Plaintiffs made a knowing and intelligent waiver of 
their right to review these materials before investing and relied 
blindly on the alleged oral representations of DiSette. Given these 
facts, the court must find that plaintiffs’ "claimed reliance upon 
[defendant’s] oral representations was unjustifiable as a matter of 
law." Jd. at i401.“ Defendants’ motion for summary judgment 


* Plaintiffs have set forth considerable facts in an effort to establish their 
financial unsophistication. However, the significance of sophistication is muted 
by the patent and unequivocal risk disclosures in the subscription agreements and 
PPMs. The court finds that no great degree of sophistication was needed to be 
aware of the speculative nature of plaintiffs’ investments. 


Plaintiff Cerra also indicated on one subscription agreement that "I have such 
knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and in tax-oriented 
investments in particular that I am capable of evaluating the merits and risks of 
an investments in the securities.” Defendants’ Suggestions in Support of the 
Motion for Summary Judgment, Exhibit G-5, p. A-1-7. 


~ The court in Davidson reviewed the plaintiffs’ claim of justifiable reliance 
within the analytical framework set forth in Zobrist v. Coal-X, Inc., 708 F.2d 1511 
(10th Cir. 1983). In reviewing claims of justifiable reliance, the relevant factors 
are: 


(1) the sophistication and expertise of the plaintiff in financial and 
securities matters; (2) the existence of long standing business or 
personal relationships; (3) access to the relevant information: (4) the 
existence of a fiduciary relationship; (5) concealment of the fraud: (6) 
the opportunity to detect the fraud; (7) whether the plaintiff initiated 

(continued...) 


B-10 


is granted as to Counts | and V. 
B. Summary Judgment on Counts II through IV 


Defendants’ argument that the statute of limitations for the 
claims in Counts II through IV for breach of fiduciary duty and 
negligence is inaccurate. The statute of limitations for these claims 
commences when damages are sustained. Mo. Rev. Stat. 
§ 516.100. Consequently, the court will not consider defendants’ 
argument that the statute of limitations on Counts II through IV has 
run. 


The court looks next at defendants’ substantive argument 
for summary judgment on Counts II through IV. Defendants 
contend that the claims for breach of fiduciary duty and negligence 
are rooted in the allegations of fraud and misrepresentation and that 
because no fraud or misrepresentation occurred, summary judgment 
should be granted on these claims. While defendants have focused 
on the lack of fraud and misrepresentation they have not sufficiently 
discussed the issues specific to the claims for breach of fiduciary 
duty and negligence. The court is, thus, reluctant to grant summary 
judgment without further argument regarding these claims. 
Therefore, defendants’ motion for summary judgment is denied for 
Counts II through IV. 


 (...continued) 


the stock transaction or sought to expedite the transaction; and (8) the 
generality or specificity of the misrepresentations. 


Davidson, 973 F.2d at 1400 (quoting Zobrist, 708 F.2d at 1516). In addition to 
finding plaintiffs reasonably sophisticated in financial matters, this court finds the 
other factors weigh heavily in favor of granting the motion for summary judgment. 
Most significantly, the court finds that plaintiffs had full access to the relevant 
information (although they chose to ignore the materials); it cannot reasonably be 
found that DiSette concealed this information; and plaintiffs had every opportunity 
to detect the alleged fraud by simply reading the documents they signed and/or 
represented that they had reviewed. 

In weighing all of the Zobrist factors applied in Davidson, this court 
finds that plaintiffs are not, as a matter of law, entitled to the protections of 
justifiable reliance. 


B-11 


Accordingly, it is ORDERED that: 


(1) plaintiff's motion for reconsideration of this court’s 
summary judgment Order of May 27, 1993 is GRANTED in part 
and DENIED in part pursuant to this Order: 


(2) plaintiff's motion to file suggestions exceeding fifteen 
pages in support of the motion for reconsideration is GRANTED: 


(3) defendants motion for summary judgment is 
GRANTED in part and DENIED in part pursuant to this order: 


(4) this Order amends and supersedes this court’s Order 
of May 27, 1993. 


Fernando J. Gaitan, Jr. 
United States District Judge 


Dated: November 17, 1993 
Kansas City, Missouri 


- RNS ag Pate HELA aR Ste 


C-1 


APPENDIX C 


IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI 
WESTERN DIVISION 


Dr. Joseph C. DeBlase et 
al., 


Plaintiffs , 


VS. No. 91-0642-CV-W-2 
Cigna Individual Financial 
Services Company, et al., 


Defendants. 


ORDER 


On May 27, 1993, this court issued an order granting 
defendants’ motion for summary judgment as to all counts of 
plaintiffs’ complaint. On June 9, 1993, plaintiffs filed a motion for 
reconsideration of the May 27 Order. On November 17, 1993, the 
court, upon reconsideration, upheld the May 27 Order granting 
summary judgment as to Counts I and V, but denied summary 
judgment as to Counts II through I'V for lack of specific arguments 
regarding these claims. The November 17 Order allowed 
defendants to renew their motion for summary judgment as to 
Counts II through IV by specifically addressing the claims. 
Defendants renewed their motion for summary judgment and, on 
March 29, 1994, this court issued an order granting summary 
judgment on the remaining claims. Pending before this court is 
plaintiffs’ motion to reconsider the March 29 order. 


Plaintiffs assert that this court’s order was prepared 
without benefit of The Jacobs Manufacturing Company v. Sam 
Brown Co., No 92-1834WM (8th Cir. March 28, 1994), the most 


C-2 


recent decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth 
Circuit regarding fraud. Plaintiffs allege that this court’s order is 
inconsistent with Jacobs, and urge the court to reinstate all counts 
of their complaint. 


In deciding Jacobs, the Eighth Circuit relied on two 
earlier decisions interpreting Missouri law, Pinken v. Frank, 704 
F.2d 1019, 1024-26 (8th Cir. 1993) and Essex v. Getty Oil 
Company, 661 S.W.2d 544, 550 (Mo. App. 1983). This court has 
reviewed these cases, but finds them plainly distinguishable from 
the case at bar. 


Jacobs involves a manufacturer (Jacobs) and its distributor 
(Brown). When Jacobs initially approached Brown about becoming 
a distributor, Brown read the written distributorship agreement, but 
expressed concern about certain terms limiting the relationship to 
a one-year period, and permitting Jacobs to sell directly to original 
equipment manufacturers (thus bypassing the distributor). Upon 
oral representations that the distributorship would last a “lifetime” 
if Brown performed well, and that Jacobs would refer all original 
equipment manufacturer inquiries in Brown’s exclusive territory to 
Brown, Brown signed the agreement. 


In Pinken, Frank was asked to execute promissory notes 
that were, by their terms, payable on a date certain. Frank was 
aware of the maturity date, but was induced to sign the notes by 
oral representations that the instruments would not be enforced 
unless certain conditions were met. Pinken, 704 F.2d at 1021-22. 
In Essex, a filling station owner was approached by an oil company 
to become a lease operator of a company filling station. During the 
course of negotiations, the owner expressed concern about certain 
terms in the lease permitting either party to terminate the lease 
agreement on 30-days written notice. Upon oral assurances that the 
language in the lease was merely a formality, and that the owner 
could remain in the location until he decided to retire, the owner 
signed the agreement. Essex, 661 S.W.2d at 547-48. 


Jacobs, Pinken, and Essex involve situations in which a 
party had read or was otherwise aware of the written terms of an 
agreement, but was induced to sign the agreement by oral 
representations that the agreement would not be enforced as written. 
Thus, the issue decided by these cases is whether a party to a 
contract may "justifiably rely on the representation of the other 


} 
; 


C-3 


party that the written agreement will not be enforced according to 
its terms." Pinken, 704 F.2d at 1024. That is not the issue in this 
case. Plaintiffs were not persuaded to invest based on defendants’ 
representations that the degree of risk, as described in the written 
materials, was less than stated in the written materials. Instead. 
plaintiffs invested without reading the very documents that would 
have alerted them to the degree of risk they were assuming. 
Neither Jacobs, nor any of the cases upon which Jacobs relies. 
provide a basis for relief under those circumstances. 


Accordingly, it is ORDERED that plaintiff's motion to 
reconsider is DENIED. 


Fernando J. Gaitan, Jr. 
United States District Judge 


Dated: April 21, 1994 
Kansas City, Missouri 


D-1 
APPENDIX D 


SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI 
en banc 


March 29, 1995 


Charles Cochran, et al.. 


) 
) 
Appellants, ) 
) 
VS. ) No. 76910 
) Circuit Court No. 
Daniel Christian Giddens, ) 616998 
et al., ) 
) 
Respondents. 
ORDER 


The Court having been advised by counsel for the parties 
that the above entitled cause has been fully settled and that the case 
has been dismissed by the Circuit Court of St. Louis County, the 
appeal herein is ordered dismissed as moot. 


Day - to - Day 
Ann K. Covington, Chief Justice 


STATE OF MISSOURI-SCT.: 

I, THOMAS F. SIMON, Clerk of the Supreme Court of 
Missouri, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of the 
order of said court, entered on the 29th day of March 1995, as fully 
as the same appears of record in my office. 

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set 
my hand and affixed the seal of said Supreme Court. Done at 
office in the City of Jefferson, State aforesaid, this 24th day of 
April, 1995. 


Thomas Simon, Clerk 
Christina Simon, D.C. 


Se ee ee 


PEO fad) Nis BERANE Fens a 


E-1 


APPENDIX E 


STATUTES, RULES AND CONSTITUTIONAL 


provides: 


PROVISIONS INVOLVED 


The Missouri Constitution, Article V, section 10, 


Cases pending in the court of appeals shall be 
transferred to the supreme court when any participating 
judge dissents from the majority opinion and certifies 
that he deems said opinion to be contrary to any 
previous decision of the supreme court or of the court 
of appeals. Cases pending in the court of appeals may 
be transferred to the supreme court by order of the 
majority of the judges of the participating district of the 
court of appeals, after opinion, or by order of the 
supreme court before or after opinion because of the 
general interest or importance of a question involved in 
the case, or for the purpose of reexamining the existing 
law, Or pursuant to supreme court rule. The supreme 
court may finally determine all causes coming to it from 
the court of appeals, whether by certification, transfer 
Or certiorari, the same as an original appeal. 


Missouri Supreme Court Rule 83.09 provides: 


DETERMINATION OF CASES FOLLOWING 
TRANSFER 

Any case coming to this Court from a district of the 
Court of Appeals, whether by certification, transfer or 
certiorari, may be finally determined the same as an 
Original appeal. If, however, in cases transferred on 
order of this Court, the Court concludes that the 
transfer was improvidently granted, the case may be 
retransferred to the Court of Appeals. 


