DON’T DESTROY A PART 


IF YOU CAN DESTROY IT ALL!!! 


In effect: 
If your hatred toward the World is so intense that you 
have seriously thought about committing suicide or 
becoming a multiple murderer; or if you plan to destroy 
cultural or natural assets, or join nihilist groups that 
practice terrorism of any kind... 


Don't do it!! 
...since you would waste your effort, you 
would be wasting bullets on small birds! 


It is very possible that you are spiritually prepared to know the Hyperborean 
Wisdom. This millenary Science will reveal to you who your true Enemy is and will 
show you the way to work positively to achieve the TOTAL destruction of the 
created Universe. The realization of such a magnificent objective will signify the 
absolute and definitive liberation of your Spirit away from the malignant material 
Universe that You hate. Reflect and turn to us! Even if you have suffered some kind 
of brainwashing that has momentarily weakened your aggressiveness: we will help 
you to recover your hatred! 


Keep in mind that there is not much time left, that the day of the Final 
Battle is near: then everything will be destroyed and not mere parts. And 
in that moment, we hope to have you destroying it alongside us and 
dancing like Shiva on the ruins of the Cosmos reduced to Chaos. 


e e I 
Take ye finger off the trigger: Just scan the OR code... If your 


Put away the dagger! spirituality is true, and your repulsion 
Do not drink strychnine or give it abbot, ae eds 

° . present World, or towar e presen 
to YORE relatives and friends! Universe, is authentic, you will have the 
Don’t drop the match on the opportunity to join an Order of Wise 
gasoline! Warriors, and become a Wise Warrior 
Don't throw your Molotov cocktail! ee ee ee 

y , greatest man-made effort of all Time 


Stop the timer on your excellent to totally destroy the Work of the 
home-made “pipe” bomb! 


Creator God of the Material Universe. 


You are not alone!! Of ao O 4) ol 
Others share your same ; ub. (78 Fea park 
aspiration and know how to do it! oF aie Oe eet 


