SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


WITH  THE 

FATHERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


OR 

HOMILIES  OF  THE  HOLY  FATHERS  ON  THE  GOSPELS 
OF  ALL  THE  SUNDAYS  AND  CHIEF  FESTIVALS 
OF  THE  ECCLESIASTICAL  YEAR 


BY  THE 

REV.  D.  G.  HUBERT 


AUTHOR  OK 

‘  ECCE  HOMO  :  MEDITATIONS  ON  THE  PASSION,’  AND 
‘  HEAVEN  ON  EARTH  J  OR,  TWELVE  HOURS  OF  ADORATION  BEFORE  THE 

BLESSED  SACRAMENT  * 


R.  &  T.  WASHBOURNE 
4  PATERNOSTER  ROW,  LONDON 

BENZIGER  BROS. :  NEW  YORK,  CINCINNATI  AND  CHICAGO 

T9OI 


http: //www. liberius . net 


©  Bibliotheque  Saint  Libere  2010. 
Toute  reproduction  a  but  non  lucratif  est  autorisee. 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

WITH 


THE  FATHERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


ubstat. 

DANIEL  CANONICUS  ILES,  S.T.L 


imprimatur. 

*  HERBERTUS  CARD1NALIS  VAUGHAN, 

Archiepiscopits  Westmonast. 


Die  4  Junii,  1901. 


THE  RIGHT  HONOURABLE 


LADY  HERBERT  OF  LEA 

IN  GRATEFUL  REMEMBRANCE  OF  HER 
GREAT  CHARITY  AND  GENEROSITY 
THIS  BOOK  IS  DEDICATED 
BY  HER  HUMBLE  AND  OBLIGED  SERVANT 
IN  CHRIST 


D.  G,  HUBERT 


CONTENTS 


page 

Introduction  -  xiii 

First  Sunday  of  Advent 

Gospel  -  -  -  -  -  r 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 

St,  Peter  2 

Second  Sunday  of*  Advent 

Gospel  ........  8 

Homily  by  St.  Jerome,  Priest  -  -  9 

Third  Sunday  of  Advent 

Gospel  -  -  -  -  -  -  12 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 

St.  Peter  -  -  -  -  -  13 

Fourth  Sunday  of  Advent 

Gospel  -  -  -  -  -  -  20 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 

St.  John  the  Baptist  -  -  -  -  -  21 

Christmas  Day 

Gospel  -  -  -  -  -  -  26 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 

Our  Lady  on  Christmas  Day  -  -  -  27 

The  Feast  of  St.  Stephen,  the  First  Martyr 

Gospel  -  -------  30 

Homily  by  St.  Jerome,  Priest  -  -  -  .  31 

Sunday  within  the  Octave  of  Christmas 

Gospel . 35 

Homily  by  the  Venerable  Bede,  Priest  -  -  35 

The  Feast  of  the  Circumcision 

Gospel  ...  ...  40 

Homily  by  St.  Ambrose,  Bishop  -  40 


CONTENTS 


4  44 


Vlll 


The  Epiphany  of  our  Lord 
Gospel  - 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 
St.  Peter  on  the  Epiphany  - 
First  Sunday  after  Epiphany 
Gospel  - 

Homily  by  St.  Ambrose,  Bishop  - 
Octave  Day  of  the  Epiphany 
Gospel  - 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  - 
Second  Sunday  after  Epiphany 
Gospel  - 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  - 
Third  Sunday  after  Epiphany 
Gospel  - 

Homily  by  St.  Jerome,  Priest  - 
Fourth  Sunday  after  Epiphany 
Gospel  - 

I.  Homily  by  St.  Jerome,  Priest  - 

II.  Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  -  - 

Fifth  Sunday  after  Epiphany 

Gospel  . 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  - 
Sixth  Sunday  after  Epiphany 

Gospel  ^ 

Homily  by  St.  Jerome,  Priest  - 
Septuagesima  Sunday 
Gospel  - 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 
St.  Lawrence  on  Septuagesima  Sunday 
Sexagesima  Sunday 
Gospel  - 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 
St.  Peter  on  Sexagesima  Sunday 
Quinqtjagesima  Sunday 

Gospel  1 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 
St.  Peter  on  Quinquagesima  Sunday  - 
Ash- Wednesday 
Gospel  - 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  - 


l’AGE 

42 

43 

50 

50 

53 

54 

59 

60 


65 

66 

69. 

70 

71 

73 

73 


77 

78 

82 

83 

90 

91 

98 

99 

106 

106 


CONTENTS 


ix 


PAGE 

First  Sunday  in  Lent 

Gospel  -------  log 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 

St.  John  Lateran  -----  jIO 

Second  Sunday  in  Lent 

Gospel  •  -  -  -  -  -  *  11G 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Leo  the  Great  -  -  -  116 

Third  Sunday  in  Lent 

Gospel  -  -  -  -  -  -  •  123 

Homily  by  the  Venerable  Bede,  Priest  -  124 

Fourth  Sunday  in  Lent 

Gospel  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  131 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  -  133 

Fifth  Sunday  in  Lent,  or  Passion  Sunday 

Gospel  -  139 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 

St.  Peter  on  Passion  Sunday  -  140 

Sixth  Sunday  in  Lent,  or  Palm  Sunday 

Gospel  -------  147 

Homily  by  St.  Ambrose,  Bishop  of  Milan  -  -  -  148 

Good  Friday 

Gospel  -------  154 

Homily  by  St,  Augustine,  Bishop  -  160 

Easter  Sunday 

Gospel  -------  163 


Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 

the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary  on  Easter  Sunday  -  -  163 

Easter  Monday 

Gospel  -------  170 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 

St.  Peter  on  Easter  Monday  -•  •  -  -  171 

First  Sunday  after  Easter,  or  Low  Sunday 

Gospel  ------- 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church 
of  St.  John  Lateran  on  the  First  Sunday  after 
Easter  -  -  -  -  -  -  175 

Second  Sunday  after  Easter 

Gospel  -------  x8o 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 

St.  Peter  on  the  Second  Sunday  after  Easter  -  -  181 


X 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Third  Sunday  after  Easter 

Gospel  -  187 

Homily  by  St,  Augustine,  Bishop  -  -  -  -  188 

Fourth  Sunday  after  Easter 

Gospel  -  192 

Homily  by  St,  Augustine,  Bishop  -  -  -  -  193 

Fifth  Sunday  after  Easter 

Gospel  ...  -  -  .  -  -  199 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  -  200 

Ascension  Day 

Gospel  -  -  -  -  -  -  207 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 

St.  Peter  on  the  Feast  of  the  Ascension  of  our  Lord  -  207 

Sixth  Sunday  after  Easter 


Gospel  -  218 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  -  218 

Whit-Sunday,  the  Feast  of  Pentecost 

Gospel  -  224 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 

St.  Peter,  Apostle,  on  the  Feast  of  Pentecost  -  -  225 

Whit-Monday 

Gospel  ------  -  234 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  -  234 

Trinity  Sunday 

Gospel  -  238 

Homily  by  St.  Gregory  of  Nazianzus  -  -  -  238 

First  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  -------  239 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  -  -  -  240 

Feast  of  Corpus  Christi 

Gospel  .......  245 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  ....  246 

Second  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  .......  248 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 
SS.  Philip  and  James  on  the  Second  Sunday  after 
Pentecost  ......  249 

Third  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  .......  257 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 

SS .  J ohn  and  Paul  on  the  Third  Sunday  after  Pentecost  258 


CONTENTS 


xi 


Fourth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  - 

Homily  by  St.  Ambrose,  Bishop  - 

Fifth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  ....... 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  - 
Sixth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 
Gospel  - 

Homily  by  St.  Ambrose,  Bishop  - 

Seventh  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  ....... 

Homily  by  St.  Hilary,  Bishop  - 

Eighth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  ....... 

Homily  by  St.  Jerome,  Priest  • 

Ninth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  - 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Basilica  of 
St.  John,  called  the  Constantine 
Tenth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 
Gospel  - 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  - 
Eleventh  Sunday  after  Pentecost 
Gospel  - 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory  .... 

Twelfth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  ------- 

Homily  by  the  Venerable  Bede,  Priest  ... 
Thirteenth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 
Gospel  -  -  - 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  .... 
Fourteenth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 
Gospel  - 

Homily  by  St,  Augustine,  Bishop  - 
Fifteenth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 
Gospel  -  -  ... 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  .... 

Sixteenth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  ....... 

Homily  by  St.  Ambrose,  Bishop  - 


PAGE 

265 

266 

272 

272 

276 

276 

282 

283 

285 

286 

288 

289 

295 

296 

299 

300 

304 

305 

308 

308 

312 

313 

317 

318 

324 

325 


XII 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Seventeenth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  -  327 

Homily  by  St.  John  Chrysostom  ....  328 

Eighteenth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  -  332 

Homily  by  St.  Peter  Chrysologus  ....  333 

Nineteenth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  337 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 

the  Holy  Martyr  Clement  -  -  -  -  338 

Twentieth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  -  342 

Homily  by  Pope  St.  Gregory,  preached  in  the  Church  of 

SS.  Nereus  and  Achilles  on  their  Festival  -  -  343 

Twenty-first  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  -  -  -  -  -  -  347 

Homily  by  St.  Jerome,  Priest  -  -  -  -348 

Twenty-second  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  -  349 

Homily  by  St.  Hilary,  Bishop  -  -  ■  350 

Twenty-third  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  351 

Homily  by  St.  Jerome,  Priest  -  -  -  352 

Twenty-fourth  Sunday  after  Pentecost 

Gospel  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  354 

Homily  by  St.  Jerome,  Priest  -  356 

Feast  of  SS.  Peter  and  Paul,  Apostles 

Gospel  -  361 

Homily  by  St,  Jerome,  Priest  -  -  -  362 

The  Assumption  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary 

Gospel  -  365 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  -  365 

The  Feast  of  All  Saints 

1 

Gospel  -  370 

Homily  by  St.  Augustine,  Bishop  -  -  -  -  371 


INTRODUCTION 


The  Christian’s  rule  of  life  is  contained  in  the  Gospels. 
They  are  the  Book  on  which  he  should  meditate,  and  the 
teaching  of  which  he  should  endeavour  to  put  into 
practice  all  the  days  of  his  life.  Yet,  it  is  to  be  feared 
that,  in  reading  this  Book,  he  might  not  have  the  necessary 
light  from  above,  and  perhaps  might  attach  to  the  sacred 
words  a  meaning  that  was  not  intended  by  the  Divine 
Teacher,  nor  by  His  disciples.  To  prevent  such  pos¬ 
sibility,  many  learned  men,  well  versed  in  Holy  Writ, 
have  carefully  explained  the  meaning  of  the  Gospels,  and 
have  thus  imparted  to  Christians  a  greater  taste  and  love 
for  the  reading  of  the  Word  of  God.  Hence  we-^have 
their  commentaries,  meditations,  lives  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
divers  essays  on  the  Holy  Scriptures,  the  titles  of  which 
alone  would  form  a  large  volume.  Many  of  these  works 
are  thoroughly  well  written,  and  the  reader  can  be  but 
greatly  edified  and  instructed  by  them.  However,  it  is 
strange,  that  from  the  beginning  it  never  occurred  to  any¬ 
one  to  go  up  to  the  very  source.  Among  spiritual  books 
the  oldest  are  the  best  and  the  surest.  It  seems,  therefore, 
that  the  works  of  the  holy  Fathers  should  have  obtained 
the  preference,  for  they  are  nearly  as  old  as  the  Church, 
and  in  them  the  tradition  is  preserved  in  all  its  strength 
and  purity. 


xiv  INTRODUCTION 

Indeed,  when  we  follow  these  wise  teachers  in  their 
writings  from  century  to  century,  we  are  astonished  that 
Christian  Faith,  enlightening  us  now,  should  be  always 
one  and  the  same,  and  that  the  doctrine  of  faith,  taught  by 
the  Church,  and  the  doctrine  of  morals,  preached  in  the 
world,  have  never  undergone  any  change  in  the  succession 
of  centuries.  We  see  that  the  true  Church,  our  glory 
and  the  foundation  of  our  hope,  has  always  remained 
calm  in  the  midst  of  storms,  victorious  in  the  fiercest 
struggles,  unhurt  amidst  the  most  powerful  attacks,  and 
always  preserved  from  the  arrows  of  her  enemies.  We 
see  that  the  Bride  of  Jesus  has  always  been  holy  and  in¬ 
fallible  in  her  precepts  and  commands,  always  wise  and 
enlightened  in  her  teaching,  always  prudent  and  reason¬ 
able  in  her  discipline,  and  always  pure  in  her  religious 
practices.  We  recognise  that  the  Church,  built  upon  the 
Rock,  has  been,  and  will  be  to  the  end  of  the  world,  holy 
and  immaculate,  because  she  is  protected  by  the  infinitely 
powerful  and  eternal  God,  and  guided  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 

It  is,  therefore,  a  subject  of  astonishment  that,  what 
the  holy  Fathers  have  written  and  preached  about  the 
Gospels,  has  not  more  often  been  translated  and  pub¬ 
lished  in  modern  times.  Was  it  not  quite  natural  to 
think  of  this  pious  duty,  especially  as  they  are  often 
quoted  in  sermons  and  instructions,  and  consulted,  when 
difficult  passages  of  Holy  Scripture  have  to  be  explained  ? 
Are  not  they  our  teachers,  under  whose  guidance  we 
cannot  fall  into  error  ?  There  are  no  better  sources 
from  which  to  draw  with  greater  safety.  What  eloquence 
and  diversity  in  their  works !  Who  would  not  admire 
the  grace  and  strength  of  a  St.  John  Chrysostom,  the 
fecundity  and  sublimity  of  a  St.  Augustine,  the  clear 
penetration  and  depth  of  a  St.  Ambrose,  the  vast  learning 
of  a  St.  Jerome,  or  the  penetrating  knowledge  of\ 


INTRODUCTION 


xv 


St.  Gregory  ?  What  dignity  and  authority  in  St.  Leo, 
and  what  beauty  in  the  writings  of  the  Venerable  Bede  ! 

The  works  of  the  Fathers  of  the  Church  form  a  rich 
library.  Yet  this  field,  so  fertile  in  an  abundance  of 
delicious  fruits,  remains  sterile  for  the  greater  number  of 
the  Catholic  people,  who  perhaps  know  not  what  to 
choose,  or  are  ignorant  of  the  language  of  these  holy 
writers.  It  seems  to  me  that  a  collection  of  Homilies 
from  different  Fathers,  arranged  according  to  the 
Sundays  and  principal  festivals  of  the  ecclesiastical 
year,  would  be  a  great  spiritual  help  to  all  Christians. 
This  is  the  reason  why  I  undertook  this  collection,  and 
I  have  carefully  endeavoured  that  it  should  be  useful 
to  all. 

Before  every  Homily  is  placed  the  respective  part  of 
the  Gospels,  thus  showing  the  intimate  relation  existing 
between  the  one  and  the  other.  The  literal,  spiritual, 
allegorical,  and  figurative  meaning  of  the  Holy  Scriptures 
is  explained  in  these  discourses.  Their  style  is  clear  and 
simple,  yet  elegant ;  the  comparisons  are  most  beautiful 
and  instructive,  for  they  are  natural.  Simplicity  is  their 
ornament,  and  this  simplicity  pervades  the  whole  dis¬ 
course.  The  present  book  is,  therefore,  a  selection  of 
different  essays  which,  by  their  number  and  diversity, 
form  a  collection  presenting  the  doctrine  of  faith  and 
morals,  and  containing  the  principal  truths  of  our  Holy 
Catholic  Religion. 

This  is  the  notion  or  idea  which  may  be  formed  of 
these  Homilies.  I  have  endeavoured  to  render,  in  a 
natural  and  simple  style,  the  sublime  and  forcible 
eloquence  of  the  holy  Fathers,  without  weakening  their 
thoughts.  For  I  am  of  opinion  that  a  literal  translation, 
often  dry  and  tiring,  could  not  give  a  clear  idea  of  the 
beautiful  expressions  found  in  these  Homilies.  A  dog- 


XVI 


INTRODUCTION 


matical  work  is  not  to  be  translated  like  a  history  or  an 
ordinary  speech. 

It  is  to  be  hoped  that  this  book  will  be  of  great  and 
general  utility,  specially  as  priests  and  others,  whose 
duty  it  is  to  instruct  the  faithful,  have  not  always  the 
time  to  consult  the  Fathers,  even  should  they  possess 
their  works.  The  duties  of  priests  in  parishes,  the  time 
they  spend  in  the  confessional,  their  visiting  the  sick  and 
the  poor,  the  administration  of  the  Sacraments,  will  not 
allow  them  to  do  so.  Besides,  would  it  not  require  a 
long  time  to  find  out  the  special  subject  ?  For,  in  order  to 
discover  in  the  writings  of  the  Fathers  a  few  pages,  or 
even  one  passage,  directly  explaining  the  Gospel,  a  whole 
essay  or  a  whole  book  must  sometimes  be  read,  the 
greater  part  of  which  has  no  direct  reference  to  that 
Gospel.  Again,  there  are  many  priests,  whose  duty  it 
is  to  preach  and  instruct,  who  do  not  possess  the  works 
of  the  Fathers,  who  have  a  few  books  only  :  their  small 
means  not  allowing  them  to  buy  any  more. 

We  also  offer  this  book  to  all  Christians  who  spend 
some  time,  specially  on  Sundays  and  Feast-days,  in 
spiritual  reading.  The  Homilies'  are  also  offered  to  all 
those  who,  through  sickness  or  the  nursing  of  the  sick, 
are  prevented  from  assisting  at  the  instructions  of  their 
Pastor.  The  clergy  and  the  laity  will  find  in  them  a 
source  of  instruction  and  edification.  As  to  the  writer, 
he  will  be  rewarded  by  the  thought  that  he  has  placed  in 
the  hands  of  a  great  many  a  selection  of  solid  instructions, 
a  great  portion  of  which  has  never  been  translated. 
Two  words  will  explain  why  this  book  ought  to  be  dear 
to  all  good  Christians  :  it  contains  the  essential  parts 
of  the  Gospels,  and  the  most  important  parts  of  the 
works  of  the  Fathers. 

D.  G.  HUBERT, 

Bath, 

October ,  1901. 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


WITH  THE 

FATHERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


FIRST  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT. 

Gospel:  Luke  xxi.  25-33.  At  that  time:  Jesus  said  to 
His  disciples :  There  shall  be  signs  in  the  sun  and  in  the 
moon  and  in  the  stars,  and  upon  the  earth  distress  of 
nations,  by  reason  of  the  confusion  of  the  roaring  of  the 
sea  and  of  the  waves,  men  withering  away  for  fear  and 
expectation  of  what  shall  come  upon  the  whole  world. 
For  the  powers  of  the  heavens  shall  be  moved,  and  then 
they  shall  see  the  Son  of  Man  coming  in  a  cloud  with 
great  power  and  majesty.  But  when  these  things  begin 
to  come  to  pass,  look  up,  and  lift  up  your  heads,  because 
your  redemption  is  at  hand.  And  He  spoke  to  them  a 
similitude  :  See  the  fig-tree  and  all  the  trees,  when  they 
now  shoot  forth  their  fruit,  you  know  that  summer  is  nigh ; 
so  you  also,  when  you  shall  see  these  things  come  to 
pass,  know  that  the  kingdom  of  God  is  at  hand.  Amen, 
1  say  to  you,  this  generation  shall  not  pass  away  till  all 
things  be  fulfilled.  Heaven  and  earth  shall  pass  away, 
but  .My  words  shall  not  pass  away. 


1 


2 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 

CHURCH  OF  ST.  PETER. 

First  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  As  our  adorable  Saviour  will  expect  at  His  coming 
to  find  us  ready,  He  warns  us  of  the  terrors  that  will 
accompany  the  latter  days  in  order  to  wean  us  from  the 
love  of  this  world  ;  and  He  foretells  the  misery  which  will 
be  the  prelude  to  this  inevitable  time,  so  that,  if  we 
neglect  in  the  quietness  of  this  life  to  fear  a  God  of  com¬ 
passion,  the  fearful  spectacle  of  the  approaching  last  judg¬ 
ment  may  impress  us  with  a  wholesome  dread.  A  short 
time  before  He  had  said :  Nation  shall  rise  against  nation , 
and  kingdom  against  kingdom .  And  there  shall  he  great  earth¬ 
quakes  in  divers  places ,  and  pestilences  and  famines  (Luke  xxi. 
io,  n).  Now  He  added:  And  there  shall  be  signs  in  the 
sun  and  in  the  moon  and  in  the  stars ,  and  upon  the  earth  distress 
of  nations .  Of  all  these  events  we  have  seen  many  already 
fulfilled,  and  with  fear  and  trembling  we  look  for  the  near 
fulfilment  of  the  rest.  As  for  the  nations  which  are  to 
rise  up  one  against  the  other,  and  the  persecutions  which 
are  to  be  endured  on  earth,  what  we  learn  from  the 
history  of  our  own  times,  and  what  we  have  seen  with 
our  own  eyes,  makes  a  far  deeper  impression  than  what 
we  read  even  in  Holy  Scripture.  With  regard  to  the 
earthquakes  converting  numberless  cities  into  lamentable 
heaps  of  ruins,  the  accounts  of  them  are  not  unknown  to 
you,  and  reports  of  the  like  events  reach  us  still  from 
various  parts  of  the  world.  Epidemics  also  continue  to 
cause  us  the  greatest  sorrow  and  anxiety  ;  and  though  we 
have  not  seen  the  signs  in  the  sun  and  in  the  moon  and  in  the 
stars ,  mentioned  in  Holy  Scripture,  we  know,  at  least, 
that  fiery  weapons  have  appeared  shining  in  the  sky,  and 
even  blood,  the  foreboding  of  that  blood  which  was  to  be 


FIRST  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT 


3 


shed  in  Italy  by  the  invading  barbarian  hordes.  As  to 
the  terrible  roaring  of  the  sea  and  of  the  waves ,  we  have  not 
yet  heard  it.  However,  we  do  not  doubt  that  this  also 
♦will  happen  ;  for,  the  greater  part  of  the  prophecies  of 
our  Lord  being  fulfilled,  this  one  will  also  see  its  fulfil¬ 
ment,  the  past  being  a  guarantee  for  the  future. 

II.  Moreover,  we  say  this,  beloved  brethren,  to  en¬ 
courage  you  to  unceasing  watchfulness  over  yourselves, 
so  that  no  false  confidence  may  take  possession  of  your 
souls,  leaving  you  to  languish  in  ignorance ;  but  that,  on 
the  contrary,  a  true  and  wholesome  fear  may  drive  you 
on  to  do  good,  and  strengthen  you  in  the  carrying  out  of 
good  works.  Take  special  notice  of  the  following,  added 
by  our  Saviour  :  Men  shall  wither  away  for  fear  and  expecta¬ 
tion  of  what  shall  come  upon  the  whole  world .  For  the  powers 
of  heaven  shall  he  moved .  What  is  meant  by  our  heavenly 
Teacher  when  speaking  of  the  powers  of  heaven ,  but  the 
angels  and  archangels,  the  thrones,  principalities  and 
powers,  that  will  appear  on  the  day  of  vengeance  of  that 
severe  Judge,  Who  will  then  demand  from  us  with  severity 
the  homage  and  submission,  which  He  now,  as  our 
Creator,  although  unseen,  asks  for  in  love  as  His  due. 
Then  they  shall  see  the  Son  of  Man  coming  in  a  cloud ,  with  great 
power  and  majesty.  Which  means  that  the  people  will  then 
see  Him,  whom  in  His  meekness  and  humiliations  they 
would  neither  listen  to  nor  recognise,  coming  in  power 
and  majesty.  In  that  day  they  will  feel  the  more  com¬ 
pelled  to  acknowledge  His  power,  since  in  the  present 
time  they  deny  Him,  and  refuse  to  submit  themselves  to 
His  yoke,  to  which  He  so  patiently  invites  them. 

III.  As,  however,  these  words  of  our  Saviour  are 
spoken  to  the  lost,  so  are  the  following  uttered  for  the 
comfort  of  the  elect :  When  these  things  begin  to  come  to  pass , 
look  up  and  lift  up  your  heads ,  because  your  redemption  is  at 

1  —  2 


4  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

hand.  Truth  Itself  teaches  the  chosen  ones  in  these 
words,  and  seems  to  say  to  them :  When  you  see  the 
calamities  which  portend  the  end  of  the  world  increasing  ; 
when  fear  of  that  awful  judgment -day  takes  possession  of 
even  the  bravest  hearts  at  the  sight  of  the  shaken  powers 
of  heaven,  then  lift  up  your  heads,  that  is,  rejoice  with 
your  whole  heart,  because  the  end  of  this  world,  so  little 
loved  by  you,  announces  to  you  the  wished-for,  freedom 
to  be  enjoyed  by  you  hereafter.  The  head  is  often  used 
in  Holy  Scripture  for  the  soul,  and  in  this  way,  by  warn¬ 
ing  us  to  lift  up  our  heads,  it  reminds  us  to  rouse  up  our 
souls  to  the  thought  of  the  heavenly  home  which  is  await¬ 
ing  us.  Those,  therefore,  who  love  God,  are  commanded 
to  rejoice  when  they  see  the  end  of  the  world  approach¬ 
ing,  because,  when  this  world,  which  they  have  not  loved, 
is  destroyed,  they  will  find  themselves  in  possession  of 
Him,  Who  is  the  one  true  object  of  their  love.  We  are 
assured  that  among  these  true  believers,  who  have  a 
real  longing  to  see  God,  there  is  not  one  who  will  not  be 
deeply  moved  by  the  fearful  events  accompanying  the  end 
of  the  world.  For  we  know  from  Holy  Scripture  that 
Whosoever  will  be  a  friend  of  this  world ,  becometh  an  enemy  of 
God .  (James  iv.  4.)  Therefore,  to  show  no  pleasure  at  the 
approach  of  the  end  of  the  world  is  as  much  as  to  declare 
that  we  love  this  world,  and  that,  we  are  the  enemies  of 
God.  This  wicked  clinging  to  the  world  must  be  far 
removed  from  the  hearts  of  good  Christians,  and  of  those 
who  by  faith  are  convinced  that  there  is  another  life,  and 
by  their  good  works  deserve  that  life.  Let  those  weep 
over  the  destruction  of  the  world,  whose  hearts  are  given 
to  it,  and  whose  hopes  are  fixed  upon  it,  and  who,  far 
from  seeking  this  new  life,  refuse  to  believe  that  there 
will  be  another  life.  As  for  us  who  believe  in  this 
heavenly  home  and  in  its  eternal  bliss  prepared  for  us,  let 


FIRST  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT 


5 


us  hasten  to  reach  them.  We  should  wish  to  attain  this 
•home  as  soon  as  possible,  and  endeavour  to  find  the 
shortest  way  thither.  For,  are  we  not  surrounded  in  this 
world  by  a  great  many  misfortunes  ?  Do  we  not  experi¬ 
ence  many  troubles  and  calamities  ?  What,  indeed,  is 
this  mortal  life  but  a  painful  way  ?  Consider,  beloved 
brethren,  what  folly  it  would  be  in  a  man  walking  along 
a  toilsome  and  difficult  road  until  overcome  with  fatigue, 
and  yet  not  wishing  to  see  the  end  of  it !  Moreover,  our 
Saviour  teaches  us  by  His  wise  similitude  that  this 
world  does  not  deserve  our  affection,  but  that,  on  the 
contrary,  we  should  despise  it.  He  says  :  See  the  fig-tree 
and  all  the  trees .  When  they  now  shoot  forth  their  fruit ,  you 
know  that  summer  is  nigh .  So  you  also ,  when  you  shall  see  these 
things  come  to  pass ,  know  that  the  kingdom  of  God  is  at  hand . 
Is  it  not  as  though  He  said  :  In  the  same  way  that  you 
conclude  by  the  trees  bearing  fruit  that  summer  is  near, 
so  by  the  downfall  of  the  world  you  will  know  that  the 
kingdom  of  God  is  not  far  off  ?  These  words  show  us 
plainly  enough  that  the  fall  and  destruction  of  this  world 
are  its  real  fruits,  since  its  rise  and  increase  are  closely 
connected  with  its  fall,  and  since  it  brings  forth  those 
things  only  which  are  destined  to  perish.  If,  on  the  con¬ 
trary,  w 6  consider  the  kingdom  of  God,  we  are  aware  that 
we  may  in  all  truth  compare  it  with  the  summer,  when 
all  the  clouds  of  our  afflictions  will  be  dispersed  and  be 
■followed  by  happy  days,  lighted  up  by  a  never  disappear¬ 
ing  sun  of  bliss.  . 

IV.  And  that  we  should  never  doubt  these  truths,  our 
Lord  confirms  them  with  an  oath,  saying  :  Amen ,  I  say  to 
you ,  this  generation  shall  not  pass  away ,  till  all  things  be  ful¬ 
filled.  Heaven  and  earth  shall  pass  away ,  but  My  words  shall 
not  pass  away.  Among  all  corporeal  things  and  beings 
nothing  is  more  durable  than  heaven  and  earth  ;  in  the 


6 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


same  way  nothing  disappears  more  quickly  than  the 
word.  Before  the  word  is  expressed  it  exists,  and  hardly 
is  it  said  than  it  has  disappeared ;  for  the  word  cannot 
attain  its  perfection  without  at  the  same  instant  losing  its 
existence.  Now  heaven  and  earth  shall  pass  away ,  says  the 
oracle  of  eternal  truth,  but  My  words  shall  not  pass  away . 
It  is  as  if  our  Saviour  said  :  Learn  ye,  that  everything 
among  you,  that  seems  to  be  durable,  has  not  been  made 
to  last  for  ever  or  to  continue  without  any  change ; 
whereas  what  seems  to  pass  away  quickly,  is  firmly 
and  for  ever  established.  For  even  the  words  I  speak, 
and  which  fly  away,  contain  in  themselves  irrevocable 
utterances. 

V.  Now,  beloved  brethren,  to  return  to  what  you  have 
heard  about  this  world  being  filled  with  continual  daily 
increasing  evils,  consider  what  remains  of  the  immense 
nation  that  has  sustained  the  calamities  of  which  I  am 
speaking.  Meanwhile,  the  troubles  have  not  yet  left  us  ; 
we  are  still  oppressed  by  lamentable  and  unforeseen 
calamities,  and  we  are  grieved  and  afflicted  by  new 
losses.  Strip,  therefore,  your  hearts  from  the  love  of  this 
world  which  you  enjoy  so  little  ;  and  for  this  purpose  take 
to  heart  the  precept  of  the  Apostle :  Love  not  the  world , 
nor  the  things  which  are  in.  the  world .  If  any  man  love  the 
world,  the  charity  of  the  Father  is  not  in  him  (i  John  ii.  15). 
What  we  have  experienced  these  last  three  days  is  not 
unknown  to  you ;  how  suddenly  raging  storms  have 
rooted  out  the  largest  and  strongest  trees,  have  pulled 
down  houses  and  destroyed  churches  !  Many  of  the 
inhabitants,  who  at  the  end  of  the  day  quietly  and  in 
good  health  projected  new  plans  for  the  morrow,  were 
taken  away  by  a  sudden  death  during  the  night,  and 
buried  under  the  ruins  of  their  dwellings. 

VI.  I  beseech  you,  beloved  brethren,  be  careful !  If 


FIRST  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT 


7 


the  invisible  Judge  is  letting  loose  the  stormy  winds  in 
order  to  produce  these  terrible  effects ;  if  He  only  needs- 
to  move  the  clouds  of  heaven  and  thus  to  shake  the  whole 
earth,  and  to  overthrow  and  ruin  the  strongest  buildings ; 
what  can  we  expect  from  this  Judge  when  in  His  wrath 
He  comes  to  take  revenge  and  to  punish  sinners?  If  a 
mere  cloud  raised  by  Him  against  us  is  sufficient  to  strike 
us  down,  how  shall  we  be  able  to  resist  His  almighty 
power?  St.  Paul,  thinking  of  the  infinite  power  of  the 
Judge  appearing  on  this  awful  day,  exclaims:  It  is  a  fearful 
thing  to  fall  into  the  hands  of  the  living  God  (Heb.  x.  31). 
The  Royal  Prophet  expresses  himself  with  the  same  force, 
when  in  his  psalm  he  says  :  The  God  of  gods ,  the  Lord  hath 
spoken;  and  He  hath  called  the  earth .  From  the  rising  of  the 
sun ,  to  the  going  down  thereof ,  God' shall  come  manifestly :  our 
God  shall  come ,  and  shall  not  keep  silence .  A  five  shall  burn 
before  Him  ;  and  a  mighty  tempest  shall  be  round  about  Him . 
He  shall  call  heaven  from  above ,  and  the  earth ,  to  judge  His 
people .  Gather  ye  together  His  saints  to  Him ;  and  the 
heavens  shall  declare  His  justice ,  for  God  is  Judge .  Hear, 
O  My  people ,  and  I  will  speak ;  0  Israel ,  and  I  will  testify  to 
thee ;  I  am  God  thy  God,  Understand  these  things  you  that 
forget  God ;  lest  He  snatch  you  away ,  and  there  be  none  to 
deliver  you  (Ps.  xlix.).  It  is  not  without  a  special  reason 
that  this  severe  judgment  will  be  accompanied  by  fire 
and  storms ;  for  it  will  weigh,  as  in  scales,  men  who 
were  devoured  by  the  natural  fire.  Therefore,  beloved 
brethren,  keep  this  great  day  before  your  mind’s  eye,  and 
whatever  seems  difficult  and  troublesome,  will  soon  become 
light  and  easy,  when  you  compare  the  one  with  the  other. 
The  prophet  Sophonias  says  to  us  :  The  great  day  of  the  Lord 
is  near ,  it  is  near  and  exceeding  swift ;  the  voice  of  the  day  of  the 
Lord  is  bitter  ;  the  mighty  man  shall  there  meet  with  tribula¬ 
tion,  That  day  is  a  day  of  wrath ,  a  day  of  tribulation  and 


8 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


distress ,  a  day  of  calamity  and  misery ,  a  day  of  darkness  and 
obscurity ,  a  day  of  clouds  and  whirlwinds ;  a  day  of  the 
trumpet  and  alarm  against  the  fenced  cities ,  and  against  the 
high  bulwarks  (Soph.  i.  14-16).  And  the  Lord  God  has 
spoken  of  this  day  through  His  prophet :  Yet  one  little 
while ,  and  I  will  move  the  heaven ,  and  the  earthy  and  the  sea , 
and  the  dry  land  (Agg.  ii.  7).  But,  as  we  have  already 
remarked,  if  the  earth  could  not  resist  the  force  of  the 
wind  set  in  motion,  how  will  man  be  able  to  resist  the 
motions  of  the  heavens  ?  For  what  are  all  these  terrible 
events  causing  us  so  much  uneasiness  and  fear,  but 
heralds  announcing  to  us  the  wrath  of  God  following 
them  ?  From  all  this  we  conclude  that  between  the. 
evils  oppressing  us  now,  and  those  which  will  come  in 
the  latter  days,  there  is  as  great  a  difference  as  between 
the  power  of  the  highest  Judge  and  the  power  announcing 
Him.  Therefore,  beloved  brethren,  think  of  the  last  day 
with  renewed  attention  ;  amend  your  lives  ;  steadfastly 
resist  all  temptations  leading  you  to  sin,  and  wipe  out 
with  your  tears  the  sins  you  have  committed.  Then  the 
more  you  have  endeavoured,  through  salutary  fear,  to 
anticipate  the  severity  of  His  judgments,  the  greater 
will  be  the  confidence  with  which  you  will  witness  the 
coming  of  this  Immortal  King. 

SECOND  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT. 

Gospel  :  Matt.  xi.  2-10.  At  that  time:  When  John  had 
heard  in  prison  the  works  of  Christ,  sending  two  of  his 
disciples,  he  said  to  Him  :  Art  Thou  He  that  art  to  come, 
or  look  we  for  another  ?  And  Jesus  making  answer,  said 
to  them :  Go  and  relate  to  John  what  you  have  heard 
and  seen.  The  blind  see,  the  lame  walk,  the  lepers  are 
cleansed,  the  deaf  hear,  the  dead  rise  again,  the  poor 


SECOND  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT 


9 


have  the  Gospel  preached  to  them ;  and  blessed  is  he 
that  shall  not  be  scandalized  in  Me.  And  when  they 
went  their  way,  Jesus  began  to  say  to  the  multitudes, 
concerning  John :  What  went  ye  out  into  the  desert  to 
see  ?  A  reed  shaken  with  the  wind  ?  But  what  went  ye 
out  to  see  ?  A  man  clothed  in  soft  garments  ?  Behold, 
they  that  are  clothed  in  soft  garments  are- in  the  houses  of 
kings.  But  what  went  ye  out  to  see  ?  A  prophet  ?  Yea, 
I  tell  you,  and  more  than  a  prophet.  For  this  is  he  of 
whom  it  is  written  :  Behold,  I  send  my  angel  before  thy 
face,  who  shall  prepare  thy  way  before  thee. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  JEROME,  PRIEST. 

Homily  on  St.  Matt.  xr. 

I.  When  John  the  Baptist  sent  his  disciples  to  Jesus, 
in  order  to  question  Him  about  His  mission,  he  was  not 
ignorant  either  of  His  advent  or  of  His  dignity  as  the 
Messiah.  He  knew  that  Jesus  was  the  Lamb  of  God  Who 
taketh  away  the  sin  of  the  world,  for  he  had  shown  Him  to 
others  who  had  no  knowledge  of  His  divine  nature. 
Indeed,  the  precursor  had  heard  the  almighty  voice  of 
the  Father  giving  testimony  :  This  is  My  beloved  Son ,  in 
Whom  I  am  well  pleased  (Matt.  iii.  17).  Now  we  know  that 
our  Saviour  asked  the  Jews 'to  show  Him  the  place  where 
Lazarus  had  been  buried,  though  He  knew  it  well,  so 
that  those  who  would  accompany  Him  thither,  should 
begin  to  believe  in  His  divine  mission,  when  witnessing 
the  miracle  of  the  raising  of  Lazarus,,  that  was  to  follow. 
In  the  same  way  John,  who  was  to  be  condemned  to 
death  by  Herod,  sent  his  disciples  to  Jesus,  that  by 
witnessing  His  miracles  and  the  operation  of  His  divine 
and  almighty  power,  they  might  believe  in  Him,  as  well 
as  receive  instruction  from  the  Divine  Teacher  Himself, 


IO 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


Whom  they  could  then  question  as  their  personal  teacher. 
It  seems  that  St.  John’s  disciples  were  angry  with  our 
Lord  ;  for  the  question  shortly  before  addressed  to  Him 
by  them,  sufficiently  disclosed  their  pride  and  envy.  The 
Evangelist  tells  us  how  the  disciples  of  John  came  to 
Him  saying :  Why  do  we  and  the  Pharisees  fast  often ,  but 
Thy  disciples  do  not  fast?  (Matt.  ix.  14).  At  another  time 
the  same  disciples  complained  to  John  and  said  to  him: 
Rabbi ,  He  that  ivas  with  thee  beyond  the  Jordan ,  to  Whom  thou 
gavest  testimony ,  behold  He  baptizeth ,  and  all  men  come  to  Him. 
(John  iii.  26).  It  was  as  if  they  said  :  We  are  a  small 
number  and  almost  forsaken,  for  the  multitude  are  with 
Jesus  Christ,  and  they  follow  Him. 

II.  St.  John  does  not  say  to  our  Lord  :  Art  Thou  He 
that  is  come  ?  But  he  asks  :  Art  Thou  He  that  art  to  come  ? 
As  if  to  say :  Let  me  know  whether,  after  announcing 
Thy  coming  into  this  world,  I  shall  not  also  announce  Thy 
coming  into  Limbo,  whither  I  shall  soon  be  going  ?  For 
is  it  right  and  just  that  the  Son  of  God  should  die  ? 
And  is  it  not  Thy  own  wish  to  send  someone  to  the 
just  in  Limbo  and  announce  to  them  the  mystery  of 
Thy  advent  ? 

III.  And  Jesus  answered  the  inquiring  disciples  and 
said  to  them :  Go  and  relate  to  John  what  you  have  heard  and 
seen .  The  blind  see ,  the  lame  walk,  the  lepers  are  cleansed ,  the 
deaf  hear ,  the  dead  rise  again .  John  had  through  his 
disciples  asked  this  question  of  Jesus  :  Art  Thou  He  that 
art  to  come ,  or  look  we  for  another  ?  Yet,  instead  of  answer¬ 
ing  this  question,  instead  of  removing  with  one  word 
whatsoever  had  scandalized  them,  Jesus  mentioned' His 
miracles  and  said  to  them :  Go  and  relate  to  John  the 
miracles  you  have  seen  ;  speak  of  the  blind  who  now  see, 
of  the  lame  who  now  walk,  and  of  all  other  miraculous 
cures  you  have  witnessed.  And  tell  him  another  fact,  no 


SECOND  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT  tl 

less  astonishing,  that  the  poor  have  the  Gospel  preached  to 
them .  Under  the  name  of  poor  our  Saviour  meant  both 
the  poor  in  spirit  and  the  poor  deprived  of  the  goods  of  this 
world ;  for  there  will  not  be  any  difference  between  rich 
and  poor,  nobleman  and  serf,  when  the  Gospel  is  preached 
to  them.  This  also  shows  how  just  and  wise  and  true  the 
Divine  Teacher  is,  Who,  when  working  for  the  salvation 
of  their  souls,  considers  them  all*  equal.  And  the  words 
which  He  added,  Blessed  is  he  that  shall  not  be  scandalized 
in  Mef  contain  a  reproof  addressed  to  the  disciples  of  John, 
as  we  shall  see  later  on. 

IV.  And  when  these  messengers  went  their  way ,  Jesus 
began  to  say  to  the  multitudes ,  concerning  John  :  What  went  ye 
out  into  the  desert  to  see  ?  A  reed  shaken  with  the  wind  ?  But 
what  went  ye  out  to  see  ?  A  man  clothed  in  soft  garments  ? 
Behold  they  that  are  clothed  in  soft  garments  are  in  the  houses 
of  kings .  Had  our  Lord  condemned  St.  John  by  these 
words,  Blessed  is  he  that  is  not  scandalized  in  Me ,  as  many 
pretend,  why  does  He  overwhelm  him  with  praises  ? 
Indeed,  Jesus  praised  John  the  Baptist,  because  the 
multitude  did  not  understand  the  meaning  of  the  disciples’ 
question,  and  thought  that  even  John  was  still  in  doubt 
as  to  whether  Jesus  really  were  the  Messiah,  though  he 
had  already  pointed  Him  out  as  the  true  Lamb  of  God. 
In  order,  therefore,  to  give  the  multitude  to  understand 
that  John  did  not  send  his  disciples  for  the  purpose  of 
clearing  up  his  doubt,  but  to  have  them  instructed,  our 
Lord  said  :  What  went  ye  out  into  the  desert  to  see  ?  Was 
it  to  see  a  man  who  like  a  reed  is  shaken  with  every  wind ; 
an  inconstant  man  who  is  still  in  doubt  about  the  mission 
of  Him  Whom  he  had  already  announced  ?  Do  you 
think  he  envies  Me,  and  that  by  his  preaching  he  seeks 
only  his  own  honour  and  glory  and  even  personal 
interest?  And  how  could  riches  and  dainty  dishes 


12 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


delight  one  who  makes  his  food  of  locusts  and  wild  honey  ? 
Would  soft  garments  be  more  useful  to  him,  since  he  is 
clothed  with  canieVs  hair  and  a  leathern  girdle  about  his 
loins  ?  Such  food  and  such  garments  are  the  appanage  of 
those  who  look  for  no  other  dwelling  than  a  prison  ;  for 
this  will  be  the  abode  of  them  that  preach  the  truth. 
Flatterers  and  self-interested  people,  that  is,  those  who 
are  eager  in  the  pursuit  of  money  and  of  luxurious  living, 
you  find  them  and  their  desires  in  the  houses  of  kings .  All 
this  clearly  shows  that  those  who  lead  a  severe  and  peni¬ 
tential  life,  and  who  announce  the  truth  in  all  its  purity, 
without  deceit  and  flattery,  must  remain  away  from  royal 
courts  and  from  the  palaces  of  sensual  people. 

V.  The  testimony  which  Truth  Itself  gave  to  John  the 
Baptist,  saying  that  he  was  more  than  a  prophet,  exalted 
him  above  all  other  prophets,  because,  whilst  other 
prophets  had,  many  hundreds  of  years  before,  announced 
again  and  again  the  coming  of  Jesus,  John  had  pointed 
Him  out  as  already  come.  Moreover,  he  was  dis¬ 
tinguished  above  all  other  prophets  by  the  privilege 
accorded  to  him  of  baptizing  Jesus  in  the  waters  of  the 
Jordan.  And  in  order  to  point  out  to  all  the  special 
dignity  of  John,  our  Lord  added  :  This  is  he  of  whom  it  is 
written :  Behold ,  I  send  My  angel  before  thy  face ,  who  shall 
prepare  the  way  before  thee  (Mark  iii.  2).  Not  that  John 
possessed  the  angelic  nature,  but  that,  announcing  to  us 
the  coming  of  the  Saviour,  he  performed  one  of  the  duties 
of  the  celestial  messengers. 

THIRD  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT. 

Gospel:  John  i.  19-29.  At  that  time:  The  Jews  sent 
from  Jerusalem  Priests  and  Levites  to  John  to  ask  him ; 
Who  art  thou  ?  And  he  confessed  and  did  not  deny ; 


THIRD  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT  ij 

and  he  confessed :  I  am  not  the  Christ.  And  they 
asked  him :  What  then  ?  Art  thou  Elias  ?  And  he 
said :  I  am  not.  Art  thou  a  Prophet  ?  And  he 
answered:  No.  They  said,  therefore,  unto  him:  Who 
art  thou,  that  we  may  give  an  answer  to  them  that  sent 
us  ?  What  sayest  thou  of  thyself  ?  He  said :  I  am 
the  voice  of  one  crying  in  the  wilderness,  M ake  straight  the 
way  of  the  Lord ,  as  said  the  Prophet  Isaias.  And  they 
that  were  sent  were  of  the  Pharisees.  And  they  asked 
him  and  said  to  him  :  Why  then  dost  thou  baptize  if 
thou  be  not  Christ,  nor  Elias,  nor  the  Prophet?  John 
answered  them,  saying :  I  baptize  with  water,  but  there 
hath  stood  One  in  the  midst  of  you  Whom  you  know  not. 
The  same  is  He  that  shall  come  after  me,  Who  is  pre¬ 
ferred  before  me ;  the  latchet  of  Whose  shoe  I  am  not 
worthy  to  loose.  These  things  were  done  in  Bethania, 
beyond  the  Jordan,  where  John  was  baptizing. 

HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 

CHURCH  OF  ST.  PETER. 

Seventh  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  The  words  of  this  Gospel,  beloved  brethren,  teach 
us  highly  to  esteem  the  humility  of  St.  John.  His  heroic 
virtues  were  so  well  known,  that  he  was  believed  by  the 
multitude  to  be  Jesus  Christ  Himself;  yet,  far  from  being 
led  astray  by  the  high  estimation  in  which  he  was  held, 
or  holding  a  good  opinion  of  himself,  he  preferred  to 
know  himself  and  to  remain  in  his  humble  position.  He 
confessed  and  did  not  deny ;  and  he  confessed :  I  am  not  the 
Christ .  However,  by  saying  that  he  was  not  the  Christ, 
Whom  they  believed  him  to  be,  he  did  not  deny  that 
which  he  in  reality  was,  and  so  in  truth  he  became  a 
member  of  Him  Whose  name  he  would  not- assume.  He 


14  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

renounced  the  name  and  the  high  dignity  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  thus  deserved  to  be  a  member  of  Christ ;  for  the  con¬ 
fession  of  his  humble  condition  raised  him  up  to  a  great¬ 
ness  published  and  confirmed  by  our  Lord  Himself.  If 
now  we  meditate  on  some  words  of  Jesus  which  we  find 
in  another  part  of  Holy  Scripture,  we  shall  have  to  clear 
up  a  most  important  question.  When  the  disciples  of 
our  Lord  asked  Him  about  the  second  coming  of  Elias, 
He,  answering ,  said  to  them  :  Elias  indeed  shall  come .  But  I 
say  to  you,  that  Elias  is  already  come ,  and  they  knew  him  not,  tut 
have  done  unto  him  whatsoever  they  had  a  mind .  Then  the 
disciples  understood  that  He  had  spoken  to  them  of  John  the 
Baptist  (Matt.  xvii.  11-13).  Now,  ask  John  the  Baptist  if 
he  be  Elias,  and  he  will  answer :  I  am  not .  Who  can 
explain  this  mystery,  beloved  brethren  ?  Why  does  the 
Prophet  of  truth  contradict  Him  who  is  the  Eternal 
Truth  ?  For  there  is  a  great  contradiction  between 
these  two  testimonies.  And  if  John  does  not  agree  with 
the  Truth,  who  shall  be  recognised  as  the  Prophet  of 
truth  ?  Yet,  when  we  examine  the  meaning  of  these 
words,  which  seem  to  be  contradictory,  we  at  once . 
recognise  that,  although  apparently  announcing  opposite 
things,  they  really  are  in  perfect  agreement.  When  the 
angel,  appearing  to  Zacharias,  said  that  John  shall  go 
before  the  Lord  in  the  spirit  of  Elias  (Luke  i.  17),  he  wished 
to  convey  the  meaning  that  John  would  come  into  this 
world  with  the  spirit  and  power  of  the  prophet  Elias,  in 
order  to  precede  the  first  coming  of  the  Redeemer,  as 
Elias  would  precede  His  second  coming.  Elias  will  be 
the  precursor  of  the  great  Divine  Judge,  as  John  was  the 
precursor  of  the  Divine  Redeemer.  John  was  Elias  in 
spirit  but  not  in  person  ;  therefore,  he  could  deny  to  be 
the  person  of  one  whose  spirit  was  in  him,  according  to 
the  testimony  of  the  Lord.  Besides,  it  was  proper  that 


THIRD  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT 


IS 

Jesus,  answering  His  disciples,  should  speak  of  the  spirit 
of  St.  John  ;  whereas  the  Baptist,  answering  a  multitude 
of  rough  and  sensual  people,  spoke  of  his  body  and  person, 
and  not  of  his  spirit.  In  this  manner  his  words  do  not 
depart  from  the  way  of  truth,  though  at  first  sight  they 
seem  to  contain  a  contradiction. 

II.  When  he  promptly  added  that  he  was  not  a 
prophet,  he  wished  to  declare  that  he  had  not  only  the 
power  to  announce  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  but  was 
also  able  to  point  Him  out ;  and  he  declared  his  mission, 
saying  :  I  am  the  voice  of  one  crying  in  the  wilderness.  You 
know,  beloved  brethren,  that  the  only-begotten  Son  is 
called  the  Word  of  the  Father ,  as  St.  John  the  Evangelist 
tells  us,  saying :  In  the  beginning  was  the  Word ,  and  the 
Word  was  with  God,  and  the  Word  was  God  (John  i.  i). 
Now  you  certainly  notice  that,  when  you  speak,  the  sound 
of  the  voice  strikes  the  ear  before  the  word  is  distinctly 
heard.  In  the  same  sense  John  declares  himself  to  be  the 
voice,  because  he  precedes  the  Word,  for  his  coming  pre¬ 
ceded  that  of  the  Redeemer  ;  therefore  he  was  the  voice 
through  which  the  Word  of  the  Father  was  heard.  He 
is  also  the  voice  of  one  crying  in  the  wilderness  and  an¬ 
nouncing  to  the  hopelessly  forsaken  Judea,  the  approaching 
consolation  of  the  Saviour.  Lastly,  he  teaches  the  mean¬ 
ing  of  his  cry  by  adding  :  Make  straight  the  way  of  the  Lord , 
A5  said  the  prophet  Isaias  (Isa.  xl.  3).  Now,  the  way  of  the 
Lord  is  made  straight  and  prepared  in  our  hearts,  when 
.we  hear  the  word  of  truth  in  humility  and  resignation. 
His  way  is  also  made  straight,  when  through  the  purity 
of  our  life  we  prepare  ourselves  to  accept  the  teaching  of 
His  truth.  Thus  Jesus  Christ  said  :  If  anyone  love  Me,  he 
will  keep  My  word ,  and  My  Father  will  love  him ,  and  We  will 
come  to  him ,  and  will  make  Our  abode  with  him  (John  xiv.  23). , 
Consequently,  he  that  extols  himself  in  pride  and  is 


16  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

governed  by  avarice ;  he  that  gives  himself  up  to  luxury 
and  lust,  closes  his  heart  against  truth,  opens  the  door  to 
passions,  and  shuts  every  entrance  of  his  soul  against  the 
Lord,  Who  then  cannot  take  up  His  abode  with  him. 

III.  These  same  men  sent  by  the  Jews  to  St.  John, 
inquired  of  him  why  he  baptized,  since  he  was  not  Christy 
nor  Elias ,  nor  the  Prophet  ?  But  it  was  envy,  not  the 
desire  of  knowing  the  truth,  that  led  them  to  speak. 
This  is  sufficiently  clear  from  the  words  of  the  Evange¬ 
list,  who  says  :  And  they  that  were  sent  were  of  the  Pharisees , 
just  as  if  he  had  said  :  They  inquired  into  the  doings  of 
John  with  such  eagerness  as  to  show  that  they  wished  to 
find  in  them  something  blamable,  and  that  they  did  not 
care  for  his  teaching,  which  only  aroused  their  envy  and 
jealousy.  However,  since  the  spirit  of  meekness  and 
holy  zeal  does  not  forsake  the  saints,  even  when  the 
envious  and  wicked  question  them,  we  see  that  John  the 
Baptist  answered  with  words  of  life  and  salvation  the 
questions  inspired  by  envy  and  hatred,  arid  said :  I 
baptize  with  water  ;  but  there  hath  stood  One  in  the  midst  of  you 
Whom  you  know  not .  The  baptism  of  John  was  only  a 
baptism  with  water,  as  he  himself  confessed,  therefore  it 
did  not  give  the  Holy  Ghost.  It  had  not  the  power  of 
forgiving  sin  ;  only  of  purifying  the  bodies,  but  not  the 
souls,  of  those  who  received  it.  He  gave  this  unfruitful 
baptism  only  to  fulfil  his  office  of  precursor,  preceding  by 
this  baptism  the  one  of  the  Redeemer,  just  as  in  his  birth 
he  had  preceded  the  coming  of  Jesus  into  this  world. 
Even  in  his  preaching  he  had  come  before  the  Saviour. 
Thus  by  the  representation  of  this  sacrament  he  signified 
the  real  Sacrament  instituted  by  our  Lord.  While 
announcing  the  mystery  of  the  Redeemer  to  the  multi- 
•  tude,  John  taught  them  that  this  Redeemer,  Whom  they 
knew  not,  stood  in  the  midst  of  them.  For  He  Who  was 


THIRD  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT 


17 


God  had  taken  human  nature,  was  like  us  in  everything, 
and  was  visibly  among  men  ;  yet  the  splendour  of  His 
Divinity  was  hidden  from  their  eyes.  And  when  he 
added:  The  same  is  He  that  shall  come  after  me,  Who  is 
preferred  before  me ,  he  wished  to  teach  us,  that  if  Jesus 
Christ,  as  to  His  birth,  has  come  after  him,  according  to 
His  dignity  He  was  infinitely  preferred  before  him.  And 
he  gives  the  reason  of  this  preference  in  the  preceding 
words,  He  was  before  me ,  and  declares  that  He  Who 
was  born  after  him  far  surpasses  him,  because  time 
cannot  enclose  Him  in  its  bounds.  Though  He  was  born 
of  His  Virgin  Mother  in  time,  yet  He  was  begotten  of 
His  Father  from  all  eternity.  However,  to  show  even 
more  clearly  the  esteem  and  reverence  which  were  due  to 
the  Redeemer,  he  confessed  in  deep  humility  that  he  was 
not  worthy  to  loose  the  latchet  of  His  shoe.  Among  the 
ancients  there  was  a  custom  that,  when  a  man  would  not 
accept  the  bride  allotted  to  him  by  law,  this  bride  was  to 
take  off  his  shoes.  This  clearly  indicates  that,  when  Jesus 
came  to  abide  among  men,  He  also  showed  Himself  as  the 
Bridegroom  of  the  Holy  Church,  according  to  the  words  of 
John  himself,  saying:  He  that  hath  the  bride  is  the  bride¬ 
groom  (John  iii.  29).  Now,  in  order  to  combat  the  opinion, 
according  to  which  some  thought  that  the  person  of  Jesus 
was  John  the  Baptist,  he  positively  declares  that  he  was  not 
even  worthy  to  loose  the  latchet  of  the  Redeemer’s  shoe, 
acknowledging  by  this  that,  as  he  could  neither  assume 
the  name  nor  the  nature  of  the  Bridegroom,  so  neither 
had  he  the  power  to  uncover  the  feet  of  the  Redeemer. 
There  is  yet  another  meaning  in  these  words.  Everyone 
knows  that  what  serves  to  cover  the  feet  is  taken  from 
the  skin  of  dead  animals.  Now,  our  Saviour,  taking  a 
body  like  ours,  appeared  in  this  world  with  the  covering 
of  our  mortal  and  corruptible  nature.  Who  is  able  to 


2 


18  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

understand  the  mystery  of  the  Incarnation  of  the  Word  of 
God  ?  Who  can  comprehend  how  the  highest  Spirit, 
giving  life  to  everything,  received  life  in  the  womb  of  a 
mother  ?  How  was  He,  who  had  no  beginning,  but  is 
eternal,  and  showed  Himself  in  time,  conceived  ?  And 
as  the  obscurity  of  this  mystery  is  signified  by  the  latchet 
of  the  Saviour  of  the  world,  we  understand  why  John  the 
Baptist  declared  that  he  had  not  the  power  to  loose  it. 
Though  he  had  recognised  by  his  prophetic  spirit  the 
Incarnation  of  the  Word,  his  human  mind  was  not  able 
to  conceive  this  great  mystery.  When  he  tells  us  that  he 
is  not  worthy  to  loose  the  latchet  of  the  Saviour’s  shoe, 
he  wishes  to  teach  us  that  he  acknowledges  his  ignorance, 
and  that  we  are  not  to  be  astonished  at  seeing  that  He, 
Who  was  born  after  him,  was  preferred  before  him ;  be¬ 
cause  the  mystery  of  our  Saviour’s  nativity  was  far 
beyond  his  conception  and  understanding.  Lastly,  this 
confession  of  St.  John  tells  us  that,  though  he  might 
have  possessed  the  required  knowledge  imparted  to  him 
in  the  gift  of  prophecy,  he  still  remained  in  ignorance 
concerning  this  incomprehensible  mystery. 

IV.  Beloved  brethren,  our  special  attention  is  called  to 
the  way  in  which  the  saints  endeavour  to  preserve  the 
virtue  of  humility.  As  soon  as  they  are  aware  of  the 
extraordinary  wisdom  and  knowledge  imparted  to  them, 
they  consider  all  the  things  which  they  do  not  know,  so 
that  the  consideration  of  their  weakness  may  keep  them 
humble,  since  the  knowledge  of  their  perfection  might 
engender  pride  in  them  ;  they  are  convinced  that,  know¬ 
ledge  being  a  virtue,  humility  is  its  best  preservative. 
For,  be  the  mind  ever  so  enlightened  by  extraordinary 
attainments,  it  must  be  humbled  deeply,  that  the  blessings 
received  and  acquired  by  knowledge  may  not  be  blown 
away  by  the  wind  of  pride.  Therefore,  beloved  brethren, 


THIRD  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT  19 

when  you  do  good  works,  remember  the  evil  you  have 
done  in  past  years ;  for  if  you  keep  your  faults  before 
your  eyes,  you  will  never  feel  vain  delight  nor  take 
thoughtless  pleasure  in  any  merit  you  may  possess.  Con¬ 
sider  yourselves  less  than  others,  especially  less  than  those 
not  entrusted  to  your  care.  Should  you  notice  faults  in 
your  neighbour,  consider  that  he  possesses  virtues  which 
you  do  not  see.  Everyone  is  intended  to  acquire  a  certain 
degree  of  eminence  through  his  merits  ;  yet  in  a  certain 
sense  he  must  not  recognise  this,  lest  he  lose  through 
pride  the  virtue  he  has  attained.  Woe  to  you ,  says  the 
prophet  Isaias,  that  are  wise  in  your  own  eyes ,  and  prudent 
in  your  own  conceits  (Isa.  v.  21).  St.  Paul  confirms  these 
words  when  he  says :  Be  not  wise  in  your  own  conceits 
(Rom.  xii.  16).  When  Saul  was  puffed  up  with  pride 
God  said  to  him :  When  thou  wast  a  little  one  in  thy  own  eyes, 
was  thou  not  made  the  head  of  the  tribes  of  Israel  ?  ( 1  Kings 
xv.  17).  That  is,  when  thou  didst  esteem  thyself  but 
little  among  others,  I  exalted  thee  above  all  of  them ;  but 
now,  as  thou  thinkest  thyself  great,  thou  hast  become 
little  in  My  eyes.  On  the  contrary,  we  see  David  who, 
in  spite  of  his  power  and  glory,  thought  but  little  of  him¬ 
self,  dancing  before  the  ark  and  saying :  Before  the 
Lord  .  .  .  I  will  both  play  and  make  my  self  meaner  than  I  have 
done ,  and  I  will  be  little  in  my  own  eyes  (2  Kings  vi.  22).  But 
who  is  he  that  would  preserve  himself  from  pride  ?  had  he 
done  such  heroic  deeds  as  this  King,  and  counted  in  his 
life  so  many  wonders  as  we  read  in  the  history  of  this 
King  ?  He  had,  by  the  strength  of  his  arms,  struck 
down  lions  and  bears  and  cut  them  to  pieces  ;  he  was 
preferred  to  his  brothers,  though  the  last  of  them,  and 
was  chosen  to  wear  the  royal  crown  ;  he  was  anointed  by 
the  prophet,  in  order  to  take  the  place  of  a  reprobate 
King,  and  to  govern  the  kingdom  of  Israel.  With  one 

2 — 2 


20 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


single  stone  he  had  overthrown  a  powerful  giant,  the 
terror  of  Saul’s  army.  Yet,  in  spite  of  these  brilliant 
deeds,  and  in  the  midst  of  his  triumph  and  exaltation, 
this  powerful  King,  as  seen  by  his  humble  words  and 
feelings,  thought  but  little  of  himself.  If  the  greatest 
saints,  amidst  their  wonderful  deeds,  thought  themselves 
worthy  of  contempt,  how  will  those  who  do  not  practise 
the  least  virtue  excuse  their  vanity  and  pride?  For 
should  we  deserve  praise  for  our  good  works,  yet  they  must 
be  considered  as  nothing,  unless  humility  give  them  their 
value.  Virtue  will  lower,  not  exalt  us,  when  humility  is 
wanting.  The  Christian  who  heaps  up  virtues  without 
the  accompanying  humility  is  like  a  man  exposing  dust 
to  the  wind ;  it  will  be  carried  away  by  the  wind  and 
thrown  into  his  own  eyes.  Therefore,  beloved  brethren, 
cling  to  humility  in  all  your  actions,  as  to  the  root  of  all 
good  works.  Do  not  consider  those  whom  you  surpass 
in  merits,  but  fix  your  eyes  on  those  who  excel  you  in 
virtues ;  then  you  will  place  before  you  as  models  those 
who  are  most  perfect,  and  by  your  own  humility  you  will 
attain  the  highest  degree  of  perfection. 

FOURTH  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT. 

Gospel  :  Luke  iii.  1-6.  Now,  in  the  fifteenth  year  of 
the  reign  of  Tiberius  Caesar,  Pontius  Pilate  being 
Governor  of  Judea,  and  Herod  Tetrarch  of  Galilee,  and 
Philip  his  brother  Tetrarch  of  Iturea  and  the  country  of 
Trachonitis,  and  Lysanias  Tetrarch  of  Abilina,  under  the 
high  priests  Annas  and  Caiphas,  the  word  of  the  Lord  was 
made  unto  John,  the  son  of  Zachary,  in  the  desert. 
And  he  came  into  all  the  country .  about  the  Jordan, 
preaching  the  baptism  of  penance  for  the  remission  of 
sins,  as  it  was  written  in  the  book  of  the  sayings  of  Isaias 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT 


21 


the  prophet :  *  A  voice  of  one  crying  in  the  wilderness  : 
Prepare  ye  the  way  of  the  Lord ;  make  straight  His 
paths.  Every  valley  shall  be  filled,  and  every  mountain 
and  hill  shall  be  brought  low  ;  and  the  crooked  shall  be 
made  straight,  and  the  rough  ways  plain.  And  all  flesh 
shall  see  the  salvation  of  God/ 

HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
CHURCH  OF  ST.  JOHN  THE  BAPTIST. 

Twentieth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I-  The  Gospel,  speaking  of  the  Roman  Emperor 
Tiberius  and  of  the  different  Princes  governing  Judea  and 
Galilee  and  other  provinces,  has  no  other  motive  but  to 
tell  us  the  year  in  which  the  word  of  the  Lord  was  made  unto 
John ,  the  Precursor  of  the  true  Messiah.  He  was  to 
announce  to  the  world  Him  Who  would  save  some  among 
the  Jews  and  a  great  number  of  Gentiles;  therefore  the 
time  of  his  ministry  is  given  by  the  name  of  the  Emperor 
who  reigned  over  the  Gentiles  and  by  the  Princes  govern¬ 
ing  in  Judea.  The  enrolment  which  had  taken  place  in 
the  world,  indicates  that  the  Gentiles  were  to  be  united, 
whilst  the  faithless  nation  of  the  Jews  would  be  dispersed. 
For  the  Romans  recognised  but  one  supreme  chief,  whilst 
Judea  was  divided  into  four  provinces  under  as  many 
Princes.  Thus  was  verified  among  the  Jews  the  word 
of  the  Redeemer  :  Every  kingdom  divided  against  itself  shall 
be  brought  to  desolation  (Luke  xi.  17).  And  the  names  of  the 
high  priests  are  given  after  those  of  the  Kings,  because 
John  the  Baptist  announced  the  Messiah,  who  was  both 
Priest  and  King.  St.  Luke,  mentioning  in  his  Gospel 
the  ministry  of  the  Precursor,  speaks  at  the  same  time  of 
the  office  of  priests  and  rulers. 

II.  John  came  into  all  the  country  about  the  Jordan,  preaching 


22 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


the  baptism  of  penance  for  the  remission  of  sins ,  From  the 
words  of  Holy  Scripture  it  appears  that  St.  John  not  only 
preached  the  baptism  of  penance,  but  also  administered 
it  to  some  of  the  Jews.  His  baptism  could  not  forgive 
sins,  for  only  the  baptism  instituted  by  Jesus  can  do  that. 
However,  he  preached  the  baptism  of  penance;  for, 
though  he  had  not  the  power  to  give  the  baptism  which 
sanctifies,  at  least  he  announced  it  to  the  world.  This 
great  prophet  had  preached,  in  the  ministry  of  the  Word, 
the  Saviour  Who,  being  the  uncreated  Word  of  the  Father, 
was  made  man  for  us  ;  and  now  he  represented  by  his 
sterile  baptism  the  Sacrament  of  the  real  Baptism,  which 
alone  can  sanctify,  truth  and  reality  being  preceded  by 
shadows  and  symbols. 

III.  And  the  Gospel  adds  :  As  it  was  written  in  the  book 
of  the  sayings  of  Isaias  the  prophet :  A  voice  of  one  crying  in 
the  wilderness  :  Prepare  ye  the  way  of  the  Lord  ;  make  straight 
His  paths .  When  John  was  asked  by  the  priests  and 
Levites :  Who  art  thou  ?  he  answered :  I  am  the  voice  of 
one  crying  in  the  wilderness  (John  i.  23).  He  was  called  by 
the  prophet  a  voice ,  as  we  have  shown  elsewhere,  be¬ 
cause  by  his  voice  he  had  preceded  the  Divine  Word. 
We  also  know  the  words  uttered  by  this  voice,  for  the 
prophet  himself  tells  them,  saying  :  Prepare  ye  the  way  of 
the  Lord  ;  make  straight  His  paths.  We  learn  from  all  this 
that  he,  who  preached  the  true  faith  and  the  necessity  of 
good  works,  wished  also  to  prepare  the  hearts  of  those 
who  listened  to  him,  that  is,  to  prepare  the  way  by  which 
the  Lord  was  coming.  For  he  removed  from  men’s 
hearts  whatever  could  prevent  the  grace  of  God  from 
entering  into  and  illuminating  them  by  the  Divine  light. 
The  minister  of  the  word  makes  the  ways  straight  for  the 
steps  of  the  Redeemer,  when  he  awakens  pious  thoughts 
in  the  mind  of  his  hearers.  Therefore,  when  it  is  said : 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT  23 

Every  valley  shall  be  filled ,  and  every  mountain  and  hill 
shall  be  brought  low ,  we  understand  that  the  humble  are 
meant  by  the  valleys  and  the  proud  by  the  mountains. 
We  know  now  why  at  the  coming  of  the  Saviour  of  the 
world  the  valleys  were  to  be  filled  and  the  mountains  to 
be  brought  low,  for  He  Himself  said :  Everyone  that 
exalteth  himself ,  shall  be  humbled;  and  he  that  humbleth  him¬ 
self  shall  be  exalted  (Luke  xiv.  11).  A  valley,  which  is 
filled  up,  rises  and  increases ;  whilst  a  mountain  or  hill 
brought  down  will  decrease.  Thus  we  see  that  the  Gen¬ 
tiles,  who  in  all  humility  received  the  faith  in  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Mediator  between  God  and  man,  received  the 
fulness  of  grace;  whilst  the  Jews,  puffed  up  and  filled 
with  pride  and  vanity,  lost  the  grace  of  God  through 
their  faithlessness.  The  valleys  are  filled,  because  the 
humble,  receiving  into  their  hearts  the  word  of  salvation, 
obtain  at  the  same  time  grace  to  help  them  to  practise 
virtue,  according  to  the  words  of  the  psalmist :  Thou 
sendest  forth  springs  in  the  vales  (Ps.  ciii.  10) ;  and  again  : 
The  vales  shall  abound  with  corn  (Ps.  lxiv.  14),  The  water 
running  down  the  mountains  represents  those  proud 
men  who  have  forsaken  the  doctrine  of  truth ;  but 
humble  souls  receive  the  truth  preached  to  them,  like 
the  valleys  receive  the  waters  which  render  them  fertile. 
Indeed,  we  recognise  this  fact  when  we  consider  those 
whose  meekness  and  simplicity  are  despised  by  the  world, 
but  who  are*  nourished  and  filled  with  the  bread  of 
Divine  truth. 

IV.  When  the  multitude  saw  the  extraordinary  holi¬ 
ness  of  John  the  Baptist,  they  believed  him  to  be  the 
firm  and  high  mountain  announced  in  Holy  Scripture : 
It  shall  come  to  pass  that  the  mountain  of  the  house  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  prepared  in  the  top  of  mountains ,  and  high  above  the 
hills  ;  and  the  people  shall  flow  to  it  (Mich.  iv.  1).  These 


24 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


words  were  applied  to  St.  John  the  more  confidently 
•  since,  according  to  the  Gospel,  he  was  taken  for  Christ 
Himself :  The  people  were  of  opinion,  and  all  were  thinking  in 
their  hearts  of  John ,  that  perhaps  he  might  he  the  Christ 
(Luke  iii.  15).  The  multitude,  thinking  this  in  their 
hearts,  insisted  on  an  answer,  and  said  to  him:  Art  thou 
not  Christ  ?  But  John  the  Baptist,  through  his  own 
humility,  was  in  his  own  eyes  like  a  deep  valley.  He 
was,  therefore,  filled  with  the  grace  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
and,  making  known  the  opinion  he  had  of  himself,  he 
answered :  He  that  shall  come  after  me  is  preferred  before 
me ,  the  latchet  of  whose  shoe  I  am  not  worthy  to  loose.  Again 
he  said  :  He  that  hath  the  bride  is  the  bridegroom ;  but  the 
friend  of  the  bridegroom ,  who  standeth  and  heareth  him , 
rejoiceih  with  joy  because  of  the  bridegroom's  voice.  This  my 
joy  therefore  is  fulfilled.  He  must  increase ,  but  I  must  decrease 
(John  iii.  29,  30).  We  see,  therefore,  that  John  the 
Baptist,  on  account  of  his  great  virtues,  was  taken  for 
Jesus  Christ  by  those  who  saw  and  heard  him.  In  order 
to  bring  them  out  of  this  error,  he  answered  that  he  was 
'  not  only  not  Christ,  but  that  he  was  not  even  worthy  to 
loose  the  latchet  of  His  shoe,  that  is,  to  investigate  and 
understand  the  great  mystery  of  the  Incarnation.  They 
also  imagined,  when  taking  John  for  Jesus  Christ,  that 
the  Church  was  His  Bride.  However,  he  formally  de¬ 
clared  that  the  true  Bridegroom  was  He  who  possessed  the 
bride,  as  if  to  say :  I  am  not  the  bridegroom,  only  the 
friend  of  the  Bridegroom,  giving  us  to  understand  that 
his  only  joy  consisted  in  hearing  the  Bridegroom’s  voice, 
and  that  he  did  not  glory  in  his  own  voice.  For  the  joy 
which  St.  John  felt  in  his  heart  did  not  come  from  the 
fact  that  the  multitude  listened  to  him  in  sincere  humility, 
but  from  the  hope  that  the  voice  of  truth  had  gained  their 
hearts,  and  that  by  his  teaching  he  would  then  unfold  the 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  OF  ADVENT 


25 


truth  more  fully  to  them.  He  could,  therefore,  say  that 
his  joy  was  full ;  for  he  that  rejoices  only  because  his 
voice  was  listened  to,  cannot  possess  real  and  entire 
happiness. 

V.  St.  John,  speaking  of  our  Redeemer,  added:  He 
must  increase ,  but  I  must  decrease .  Now,  let  us  consider  in 
what  our  Lord  could  increase  and  in  what  His  prophet 
could  decrease.  This  difficulty  is  easily  overcome  when 
we  remember  that  the  people,  seeing  the  wonderful 
mortification  of  John  the  Baptist,  and  his  retirement  in 
the  desert  far  from  all  intercourse  with  men,  thought  he 
was  Christ  the  Messiah.  Whereas,  seeing  Jesus  among 
publicans,  conversing  and  eating  with  them,  and  not 
avoiding  the  company  of  sinners,  they  took  Him  for  a 
prophet  only,  and  not  for  the  Christ.  But  what  John 
said  was  literally  fulfilled,  when  the  time  came  that  the 
Redeemer,  Whom  they  had  looked  upon  as  a  mere 
prophet,  was  recognised  as  the  Christ,  and  that  John  the 
Baptist,  taken  for  Christ,  was  then  known  only  as  His 
prophet.  Then,  indeed,  was  fulfilled  what  John  said  of 
Jesus  :  He  must  increase,  but  I  must  decrease .  And  our  Lord 
increased  in  the  esteem  of  men  as  soon  as  they  recog¬ 
nised  Who  He  in  reality  was ;  whilst  the  honour  given 
to  John  decreased,  when  it  became  known  that  he  was 
only  the  prophet  of  the  Messiah.  Thus  the  holiness  of 
John  the  Baptist  was  preserved,  because  he  remained 
humble.  The  greater  number  of  those  who  wish  to 
attain  to  greatness,  very  often  by  their  proud  thoughts 
and  sentiments,  fall  deeply,  and  verify  in  their  lives  these 
words:  Every  valley  shall  be' filled,  and  every  mountain  and 
hill  shall  be  brought  low .  For  God  is  with  the  humble,  and 
gives  them  His  richest  blessings;  whereas  He  forsakes 
the  heart  of  the  proud  man. 

VI.  Again  it  is  said:  And  the  crooked  shall  be  made 


26 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


straight ,  and  the  rough  ways  plain .  These  words  will  be 
fulfilled  when  the  wicked,  whose  hearts  are  corrupted  by 
injustice,  endeavour  to  return  to  God  by  practising 
Christian  justice.  And  the  .rough  ways  are  made  plain, 
when  hard  and  passionate  hearts  are  softened  and  become 
peaceful  through  the  grace  of  God.  When  the  word  of 
truth  is  not  received,  but  finds  an  insensible  heart,  it  is 
withdrawn,  on  account  of  the  obstacles  placed  in  its  way. 
Whereas,  when  through  the  unction  of  the  grace  of  God, 
we  are  softened  and  willingly  receive  the  instructions 
and  exhortations  of  God’s  ministry,  the  truth  they  an¬ 
nounce,  instead  of  finding  rough  ways,  finds  them  smooth 
and  plain,  and  thus  easily  penetrates  the  heart. 

VII.  And  all  fleshy  continues  the  Evangelist,  shall  see 
the  salvation  of  God ;  that  is,  all  men  shall  see  Jesus  Christ. 
But  in  this  life  all  men  cannot  see  the  Redeemer.  It 
seems,  therefore,  that  the  prophet  spoke  of  the  future, 
that  he  saw  heaven  open  before  him,  and  Jesus  in  His 
glory,  surrounded  by  angels,  apostles  and  saints,  as  He 
will  come  to  judge  the  world.  Then  all  men,  both  the 
just  and  the  unjust,  will  see  the  Judge.  The  just,  that 
they  may  receive  the  due  reward  of  everlasting  happi¬ 
ness  ;  and  the  wicked,  that  they  may  be  punished  in 
everlasting  torments  for  their  sins  and  vices.  Amen. 

CHRISTMAS  DAY. 

Gospel:  Luke  ii.  1-14,  And  it  came  to  pass  that  in 
those  days  there  went  out  a  decree  from  Caesar  Augustus 
that  the  whole  world  should  be  enrolled.  This  enrolling 
was  first  made  by  Cyrinus,  the  Governor  of  Syria.  And 
all  went  to  be  enrolled,  every  one  into  his  own  city.  And 
Joseph  also  went  up  from  Galilee  out  of  the  city  of 
Nazareth  into  Judea,  to  the  city  of  David,  which  is 


CHRISTMAS  DAY 


2  7 


called  Bethlehem,  because  he  was  of  the  house  and 
family  of  David,  to  be  enrolled  with  Mary,  his  espoused 
wife,  who  was  with  child.  And  it  came  to  pass,  that 
when  they  were  there,  her  days  were  accomplished  that 
she  should  be  delivered.  And  she  brought  forth  her 
first-born  Son,  and  wrapped  Him  up  in  swaddling-clothes, 
and  laid  Him  in  a  manger,  because  there  was  no  room  for 
them  in  the  inn.  And  there  were  in  the  same  country 
shepherds  watching  and  keeping  the  night-watches  over 
their  flock.  And  behold  an  angel  of  the  Lord  stood  by 
them,  and  the  brightness  of  God  shone  round  about 
them ;  and  they  feared  with  a  great  fear.  And  the  angel 
said  to  them:  Fear  not  ;  for  behold  I  bring  you  good 
tidings  of  great  joy,  that  shall  be  to  all  the  people  ; 
for  this  day  is  born  to  you  a  Saviour,  Who  is  Christ 
the  Lord,  in  the  city  of  David.  And  this  shall  be  a 
sign  unto  you :  You  shall  find  the  Infant  wrapped  in 
swaddling-clothes,  and  laid  in  a  manger.  And  suddenly 
there  was  with  the  angel  a  multitude  of  the  heavenly 
army,  praising  God,  and  saying :  Glory  to  God  in  the 
highest,  and  on  earth  peace  to  men  of  good  will. 

HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
CHURCH  OF  OUR  LADY  ON  CHRISTMAS  DAY. 

Eighth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  Since  by  the  mercy  of  God  we  are  to  say  three 
Masses  to-day,  there  is  not  much  time  left  for  preaching 
on  this  Gospel ;  at  the  same  time  the  festival  of  the 
Lord’s  Nativity  obliges  us  to  speak  a  few  words.  Let 
us  first  ask  why,  when  our  Lord  was  to  be  born,  the 
world  was  enrolled  ?  Was  it  not  clearly  to  show  that 
He  Who  was  to  come  into  this  world  and  be  made  man 
would  one  day  enroll  His  elect  and  inscribe  their  names 


28 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


in  the  book  of  eternity?  For  the  prophet,  speaking  of 
the  reprobate,  says :  Let  them  be  blotted  out  of  the  book  of 
the  living  ;  and  with  the  just  let  them  not  be  written  (Ps. 
lxviii.  29).  Then  it  is  not  without  a  special  reason  that 
the  Lord  is  born  in  Bethlehem.  For  the  name  Bethlehem 
signifies  the  House  of  Breads  and  this  is  the  birthplace  of 
Him  Who  said  :  1  am  the  living  Bread ,  which  came  down  from 
heaven  (John  vi.  51).  We  see  then  that  the  name  of 
Bethlehem  was  prophetically  given  to  the  place  where 
Christ  was  born,  because  it  was  there  that  He  was  to 
appear  in  the  flesh,  by  the  eating  of  which  the  souls  of 
the  elect  are  fed  unto  life  everlasting.  He  was  born,  not 
in  His  mother’s  house,  but  away  from  home.  And  this 
is  a  mystery,  showing  that  by  assuming  our  mortality 
He  was  born  in  a  strange  country.  We  say  strange, 
considering  the  Divine  nature  of  our  Redeemer,  and 
not  His  Divine  power.  For,  referring  to  this  power, 
Holy  Scripture  says  that,  when  the  Lord  came  into  this 
world,  He  came  unto  His  own.  But,  when  thinking  of 
His  Divine  nature,  and  knowing  that  He  was  begotten 
of  the  Father  before  all  worlds,  we  may  say  that  by 
taking  our  nature  in  time,  He  came  into  a  strange 
country.  Again,  considering,  as  the  prophet  says,  that 
all  flesh  is  grass  (Isa.  xl.  6),  we  easily  understand  how 
Jesus,  taking  this  flesh,  changed  it  into  wheat,  since  He 
said  of  Himself :  Unless  the  grain  of  wheat  falling  into  the 
ground  die ,  itself  remaineth  alone  (John  xii.  24).  This  is  the 
reason  why  the  Divine  Child  is  seen  in  a  manger  after 
His  birth,  that  His  flesh,  like  pure  wheat,  may  draw  to 
Him  the  faithful,  as  mysterious  animals,  to  be  fed  and 
filled  with  eternal  wisdom.  And  when  it  is  said  that  the 
angel  showed  himself  to  the  shepherds  keeping  the 
night-watches,  and  that  a  wonderful  light  surrounded 
them,  we  learn  from  this  that  those,  who  carefully  attend 


CHRISTMAS  DAY 


29 


to  the  flocks  entrusted  to  them  must  be  favoured  with 
deeper  knowledge,  since  their  ministry  is  highly  meri¬ 
torious.  For,  whilst  they  carefully  watch  over  their 
flocks,  they  are  enlightened  by  God  with  graces  more 
abundant  than  those  given  to  others. 

II.  The  angel  announced  that  a  King  was  born,  and  sud¬ 
denly  there  was  with  the  angel  a  multitude  of  the  heavenly 
host  praising  God  and  saying  :  Glory  to  God  in  the  highest , 
and  on  earth  peace  to  men  of  good  will.  Before  the  Incarnation 
of  the  Son  of  God  there  was  disagreement  between  the 
angels  and  men.  Original  sin  and  the  crimes  daily  com¬ 
mitted  in  the  world  were  the  cause  of  this  division.  It  was 
only  just  that  the  angels,  being  the  friends  and  faithful  ser¬ 
vants  of  God,  should  look  upon  men  as  strangers  and  have 
no  communication  with  them  on  account  of  their  trans¬ 
gressing  the  commandments.  But  since  man  submitted 
to  God  and  recognised  Him  as  his  lawful  Master,  the 
heavenly  spirits  consider  mankind  as  their  fellow-citizens. 
Though  highly  superior  to  us,  they  do  not  despise  our 
weakness,  since  the  King  of  heaven  and  earth  came 
down  and  took  upon  Him  this  human  weakness.  These 
blessed  spirits,  forgetting  their  former  aversion,  wish  to 
live  in  friendship  with  us.  Instead  of  despising  us  as 
frail  humanity,  they  look  upon  us  as  their  fellow-creatures. 
We  read  in  Holy  Scripture  that  Lot  and  Josua  prostrate 
on  the  ground  worshipped  the  angels  sent  by  God  ;  but 
when  St.  John  fell  down  to  adore  before  the  feet  of  the 
angel  he  was  prevented  from  doing  so,  for  the  angel  said : 
See  thou  do  it  not ,  for  I  am  thy  fellow-servant  and  of  thy 
brethren  (Apoc.  xxii.  9).  Why  did  the  angels,  before  the 
coming  of  the  Redeemer,  see  men  prostrate  before  them 
and  prevent  them  not  ?  And  why  were  they  unwilling, 
after  the  birth  of  our  Saviour,  to  receive  such  honour  ? 
Was  it  not  because  they  saw  the  human  nature,  which  they 


30 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


had  before  despised,  now  exalted  high  above  their  own  in 
the  person  of  Jesus,  true  God  and  true  man  ?  Also  because 
they  dread  to  see  the  human  nature  humbled,  since  they 
adore  that  humanity  in  the  person  of  the  King  of  Majesty, 
their  own  King,  Lastly,  the  angels  consider  man  as 
their  equal  because  they  adore  God  made  man,  sitting  at 
the  right  hand  of  the  Father.  Let  us,  therefore,  beloved 
brethren,  beware  of  every  sin,  by  which  we  might  be 
made  unworthy  of  that  heavenly  city,  which  God  has 
prepared  for  us  as  well  as  for  His  angels.  Let  us  lead 
such  good  lives  that  they  may  correspond  with  our 
dignity.  Avoid,  therefore,  impurity  and  lust,  even  every 
sinful  thought.  Let  not  wickedness  soil  the  purity  of 
your  souls;  let  not  the  poison  of  envy  and  hatred  penetrate 
your  hearts.  Keep  your  souls  free  from  pride,  covetous¬ 
ness  and  anger,  and  especially  from  the  desire  of  tasting 
the  sinful  pleasures  of  this  world.  Remember  that  you 
have  been  called  the  sons  of  the  most  High  (Ps.  lxxxi.  6). 
Defend  in  yourselves  the  glory  of  God  by  avoiding  sin, 
for  God  was  made  man  in  order  to  honour  us  and  make 
us  partakers  of  His  eternal  glory.  Amen. 

THE  FEAST  OF  ST.  STEPHEN,  THE  FIRST 

MARTYR. 

Gospel  :  Matt,  xxiii.  34-39.  At  that  time  :  Jesus  said 
unto  the  Scribes  and  Pharisees :  Behold,  I  send  to  you 
prophets,  and  wise  men  and  scribes  ;  and  some  of  them 
you  will  put  to  death  and  crucify,  and  some  you  will 
scourge  in  your  synagogues  and  persecute  from  city  to 
city ;  that  upon  you  may  come  all  the  just  blood  that  hath 
been  shed  upon  the  earth,  from  the  blood  of  Abel  the 
just  even  unto  the  blood  of  Zacharias,  the  son  of  Barachias, 
whom  you  killed  between  the  temple  and  the  altar. 


FEAST  OF  ST.  STEPHEN 


31 


Amen,  I  say  to  you  all  these  things  shall  come 
upon  this  generation.  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that 
killest  the  prophets  and  stonest  them  that  are  sent  unto 
thee,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  together  thy 
children  as  the  hen  doth  gather  her  chickens  under  her 
wings,  and  thou  wouldest  not.  Behold,  your  house  shall 
be  left  to  you  desolate.  For  I  say  to  you,  you  shall  not 
see  Me  henceforth  till  you  say  :  Blessed  is  He  that 
cometh  in  the  name  of  the  Lord. 


HOMILY  BY  ST.  JEROME,  PRIEST. 

Comment  on  Matt,  xxiii.,  Bk.  rv. 

I.  The  words  addressed  to  the  Jews  by  our  Redeemer, 
when  He  said :  Fill  ye  up  the  measure  of  your  fathers 
(Matt,  xxiii.  32),  especially  refer,  as  we  have  already 
remarked,  to  Himself,  whom  the  Jews  afterwards  put  to 
death.  In  a  secondary  sense  they  may  also  be  applied 
to  His  disciples,  of  whom  He  says:  Behold ,  I  send  to  you 
prophets ,  and  wise  mcny  and  scribes ;  and  some  of  them  you 
will  put  to  death  and  crucify ,  and  some  you  will  scourge  in 
your  synagogues ,  and  persecute  from  city  to  city .  Observe 
that,  according  to  the  Apostle  writing  to  the  Corinthians 
(1  Cor.  xii.  4),  there  are  diversities  of  gifts  granted  to 
Christ’s  followers.  Some  are  prophets  of  that  which  is 
to  come  ;  some  are  wise  men,  who  know  the  suitable 
season  for  rebuke  or  exhortation ;  some  are  scribes 
learned  in  the  law.  And  of  these  they  stoned  Stephen, 
slew  Paul  with  the  sword,  crucified  Peter,  and  scourged 
the  disciples,  as  we  read  in  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles 
(v.  40  ;  xvi.  23).  When  these  men,  sent  by  God,  saw 
that  they  were  universally  despised,  persecuted  from  one 
city  to  another,  and  lastly  driven  out  of  the  land  of  the 


32 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


Jews,  they  went  to  the  Gentiles.  After  reproaching 
the  Jews  with  the  blood  of  so  many  of  their  own  people 
which  they  had  shed,  our  Lord  added  these  words:  Amen, 
I  say  to  you,  all  these  things  shall  come  upon  this  generation . 
But  the  multitude  listening  to  Jesus,  when  He  said  these 
words,  had  not  shed  the  blood  of  Abel  and  other  saints 
of  the  Old  Testament  unto  the  blood  of  Zacharias.  Why, 
then,  should  they  be  guilty  of  all  that  blood?  Because, 
in  the  language  of  the  Scriptures,  all  the  just  are  in¬ 
cluded  in  one  and  the  same  generation,  and  all  the 
wicked  in  another  generation,  of  which  they  are  con¬ 
sidered  to  be  the  offspring.  As  to  the  generation  of  the 
just  we  hear  the  prophet  say :  Who  shall  ascend  into  the 
mountain  of  the  Lord ,  or  who  shall  stand  in  His  holy  place  ? 
(Ps.  xxiii.  3).  And,  after  speaking  of  those  who  shall 
ascend  into  this  mountain,  he  concludes  with  these 
words :  This  is  the  generation  of  them  that  seek  Him ,  of  them 
that  seek  the  face  of  the  God  of  Jacob .  The  same  prophet, 
speaking  in  another  psalm  of  all  the  saints,  says  that 
heaven  will  ever  bless  the  generation  of  the  just.  Con¬ 
sidering  the  wicked  mentioned  in  that  passage,  we  see 
that  they  are  called  a  brood,  or  generation,  of  vipers 
(Matt.  iii.  7),  and  all  these  things  shall  come  upon 
that  accursed  generation.  The  prophet  Ezechiel,  after 
enumerating  all  the  sins  committed  in  this  world,  adds 
these  terrible  words :  If  these  three  men9  Noe ,  Daniel ,  and  Job , 
shall  be  in  the  land,  they  shall  deliver  their  own  souls  by  their 
justice ,  but  the  land  shall  be  desolate  (Ezec.  xiv.  14, 16).  The 
prophet  includes  under  the  names  of  Noe,  Daniel,  and 
Job,  all  the  just  who  by  their  virtues  were  like  these 
men.  Then,  all  those  who  persecuted  the  Apostles,  and 
imitated  Cain  and  Joas  in  their  sins,  are  included  in  the 
generation  of  the  wicked. 

IL  It  is  a  matter  of  dispute  among  commentators, 


FEAST  OF  ST.  STEPHEN 


33 


who  is  meant  by  Zacharias,  the  son  of  Barachias.  We 
read  of  several  persons  of  the  name  of  Zacharias;  but 
here,  in  order  to  prevent  any  mistake,  it  is  particularly 
said  :  Whom  you  killed  between  the  temple  and  the  altar .  I 
have  read  various  opinions  in  various  places  upon  this 
question,  and  I  will  give  each  of  them.  Some  hold  that 
Zacharias,  the  son  of  Barachias,  is  the  eleventh  of  the 
twelve  minor  prophets,  and  this  opinion  is  supported 
by  the  father’s  name.  But  Holy  Scripture  nowhere 
tells  us  that  this  prophet  was  slain  between  the  temple 
and  the  altar,  and  it  is  hardly  possible  that  he  can  have 
been  so,  for  in  his  time  it  could  scarcely  be  said  that 
even  the  ruins  of  the  temple  still  existed.  Others  main¬ 
tain  that  this  Zacharias  was  Zacharias,  the  father  of 
John  the  Baptist.  This  interpretation  is  derived  from 
the  dreams  of  the  ^Apocryphal  Gospels,  wherein  it  is 
asserted  that  he  was  martyred  for  preaching  Christ’s 
coming.  Again,  others  will  have  it  that  this  Zacharias, 
the  son  of  Barachias,  was  that  Zacharias  of  whom  we 
read,  that  he  was  killed  by  Joas,  King  of  Juda,  between 
the  temple  and  the  altar.  Against  this  it  is  to  be 
remarked  that  that  Zacharias  was  not  the  son  of 
Barachias,  but  of  Joiada  the  priest ;  whence  it  is  written 
in  Holy  Scripture  :  Joas  did  not  remember  the  kindness  which 
Joiada ,  his  father ,  had  done  to  him  (2  Par.  xxiv.  22).  The 
question,  therefore,  arises,  if  this  opinion  be  true,  why, 
the  name  and  manner  of  death  both  agreeing  with  the 
explanation,  Zacharias  is  called,  not  the  son  of  Joiada, 
but  of  Barachias.  In  Hebrew  Barachias  signifies  the 
blessed  of  the  Lord ,  and  Joiada  justice .  In  the  Gospel 
used  by  the  Nazarenes  the  name  of  Joiada  is  used  instead 
of  Barachias. 

III.  Jerusalem ,  Jerusalem}  thou  that  killest  the  prophets , 
and  stonest  them  that  are  sent  to  thee .•  Let  us  not  imagine 

3 


34 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


that  by  the  word  Jerusalem  our  Lord  meant  the  stones 
and  buildings  of  the  city.  No,  He  spoke  of  the  in¬ 
habitants,  and  complained,  like  a  kind  father  complains 
of  his  children’s  wickedness.  In  another  Gospel  (Luke 
xix.  41)  we  are  told  that  when  Jesus  saw  the  city  He 
wept  over  it ;  and  by' the  words  added  by  our  Saviour  : 
How  often  would  I  have  gathered  together  thy  children ,  He 
teaches  us  that  all  the  prophets  who  had  arisen  among 
the  Jews,  in  order  to  convert  them,  were  sent  in  His 
name.  When,  lastly,  He  tells  the  Jews  that  their  house 
would  be  left  desolate,  He  only  confirms  what  He  had 
already  announced  to  the  prevaricating  people  by  the 
prophet  Jeremiah,  saying:  I  have  forsaken  my  house;  I 
have  left  my  inheritance  (xii.  7).  Indeed,  we  see  in  our  time 
that  the  house  of  the  Jews,  that  is,  the  magnificent  temple, 
considered  as  one  of  the  wonders  of  the  world,  is  a  for¬ 
saken  and  desolate  place,  since  Jesus  Christ  abandoned 
it,  and  since  the  Heir  was  killed  by  the  perfidious 
nation,  which  endeavoured  to  seize  upon  the  inheritance. 

IV.  In  the  same  manner  our  Lord  addressed  Jerusalem 
and  the  whole  Jewish  nation,  when  He  said  :  I  say  to 
you,  you  shall  not  see  Me  henceforth  until  you  say :  Blessed  is 
He  that  cometh  in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  These  last  words, 
which  the  children  used  when  expressing  their  joy  at 
the  triumphant  entry  of  Jesus  into  Jerusalem,  are  taken 
from  the  1 1 7th  Psalm,  in  which  the  royal  prophet  speaks 
of  Jesus.  By  these  words  our  Lord  wished  to  tell  the 
Jews,  that  they  would  never  see  Him  unless  they  did 
penance,  and  openly  confessed  that  He  was  the  Son  of 
God  the  Almighty,  announced  by  the  prophets.  Time 
was  given  to  the  Jews  to  be  converted.  Their  only 
duty  was  to  acknowledge  and  adore  Him,  Who  was  sent 
by  the  Father  to  be  their  King;  then  they  would  see 
Jesus  Christ  and  reign  with  Him. 


SUNDAY  WITHIN  THE  OCTAVE  OF  CHRISTMAS  35 


SUNDAY  WITHIN  THE  OCTAVE  OF 

CHRISTMAS. 

Gospel:  Luke  ii.  33-40.  At  that  time:  Joseph  and 
Mary,  the  mother  of  Jesus,  were  wondering  at  these 
things  which  were  spoken  concerning  Him.  And  Simeon 
blessed  them,  and  said  to  Mary  His  mother  :  Behold, 
the  Child  is  set  dor  the  fall,  and  for  the  resurrection  of 
many  in  Israel,  and  for  a  sign  that  shall  be  contradicted. 
And  thy  own  soul  a  sword  shall  pierce,  that  out  of  many 
hearts  thoughts  may  be  revealed.  And  there  was  one 
Anna,  a  prophetess,  the  daughter  of  Phanuel,  of  the 
tribe  of  Aser.  She  was  far  advanced  in  years,  and  had 
lived  with  her  husband  seven  years  from  her  virginity ; 
and  she  was  a  widow  until  fourscore  and  four  years ; 
who  departed  not  from  the  temple,  by  fastings  and 
prayers  serving  night  and  day.  Now,  she  at  the  same 
hour  coming  in,  confessed  to  the  Lord,  and  spoke  of 
Him  to  all  that  looked  for  the  redemption  of  Israel. 
And  after  they  had  performed  all  things  according  to  the 
law  of  the  Lord,  they  returned  into  Galilee,  into  their 
city  Nazareth.  And  the  Child  grew,  and  waxed  strong, 
full  of  wisdom  ;  and  the  grace  of  God  was  in  Him. . 

HOMILY  BY  THE  VENERABLE  BEDE,  FRIEST. 

Bk.  i.,  on  Luke  ii. 

I.  In  the  Gospel  we  see  that  Joseph  was  called  the 
father  of  our  Saviour  ;  but  we  know  that  he  was  not,  ac¬ 
cording  to  the  erroneous  interpretation  of  the  Photinians, 
the  real  father  of  Jesus,  but  only  His  reputed  father,  in 
order  to  save  the  honour  of  Mary  his  spouse.  The 
Evangelist  knew  that  the  Virgin,  though  a  mother,  had 
conceived  by  the  operation  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  However, 

3— 2 


36 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


to  follow  the  common  expressions  used  by  historians,  he 
made  no  scruple  at  calling  St.  Joseph  the  father  of  Jesus. 
Moreover,  we  may  apply  to  him  the  qualifications  of  a 
father  in  the  same  sense  and  for  the  same  reasons  as  we  call 
him  the  spouse  of  Mary,  though  she  remained  a  Virgin  in 
spite  of  the  conjugal  bond.  Indeed,  on  account  of  this 
bond,  uniting  Joseph  with  his  spouse,  he  deserved  the  title 
of  father  of  Jesus  more  justly  than  if  he  had  adopted  Him  ; 
and  he  would  have  possessed  the  rights  of  a  father  over 
Jesus,  even  though  not  born  of  his  spouse,  had  he  adopted 
Him  according  to  the  law. 

II.  It  was  in  very  truth  that  Simeon,  when  speaking 
of  the  Redeemer,  could  say  to  Mary  :  Behold ,  the  Child  is 
set  for  the  fall ,  and  for  the  resurrection  of  many  in  Israel . 
Indeed,  many  will  rise  through  Jesus  Christ,  the  light 
and  the  glory  of  Israel.  He  Himself  teaches  us  this 
truth,  when  He*  says  :  I  am  the  resurrection  and  the  life. 
And  everyone  that  liveth,  and  believeth  in  Me ,  shall  not  die  for 
ever  (John  xi.  25,  26).  And  He  will  be  an  occasion  of 
fall  for  many,  because  He  is  the  stone  which,  rejected  by 
the  builders,  has  become  the  head  of  the  corner,  and  will 
grind  to  dust  those  on  whom  it  falls,  those  who  do  not 
believe  in  Him.  It  was  of  them  that  He  spoke,  saying  : 
If  I  had  not  come  and  spoken  to  them ,  they  would  not  have  sin ; 
but  now  they  have  no  excuse  for  their  sin  (John  xv.  22).  But 
Jesus  is  also  an  occasion  of  fall  for  many,  not  only  in  His 
own  person,  but  also  in  the  person  of  His  ministers. 
Thus  we  hear  St.  Paul  say  :  We  are  the  good  odour  of  Christ 
unto  God,  in  them  that  are  saved ,  and  in  them  that  perish 
(2  Cor.  ii.  15).  If,  therefore,  we  willingly  accept  the 
doctrine  of  salvation,  preached  by  God  through  His 
ministers  sent  to  us,  then  it  will  be  a  good  odour  sanctify¬ 
ing  our  soul ;  whereas  the  same  doctrine  will  be  an 
odour  of  death  and  an  occasion  of  fall  for  those  who 


SUNDAY  WITHIN  THE  OCTAVE  OF  CHRISTMAS  37 

neglect  or  despise  it.  When  the  prophecy  again  tells  us 
that  this  Child  shall  be  contradicted ,  we  know  that  by  these 
words  is  meant  the  faith  in  the  death  of  our  Lord  on  the 
cross  preached  to  the  world.  St.  Paul  tells  us  that  the. 
Jews,  speaking  of  the  Christians,  said  :  We  know  that  this 
sect — those  believing  and  teaching  this  doctrine — is  every - 
where  spoken  against  (Acts  xxviii.  22).  And  the  same 
Apostle  says  :  We  preach  Christ  crucified ,  unto  the  Jews 
indeed  a  stumbling-block ,  and  unto  the  G entiles ,  foolishness 
(1  Cor.  i.  23). 

III.  Holy  Simeon  again  said  to  our  Blessed  Lady  that 
a  sword  would  pierce  her  own  soul.  We  easily  under¬ 
stand  that  a  sword  of  sorrow,  grief  and  suffering,  result¬ 
ing  from  the  great  sufferings  of  her  Son,  was  meant  by 
these  words ;  for  no  tradition  relates  that  Mary  died  by 
the  sword,  which  after  all  has  power  over  the  body  only 
and  not  over  the  soul.  Holy  Scripture  speaks  of  this 
spiritual  sword  :  Their  tongue  is  a  sharp  sword  (Ps.  lvi.  5). 
Though  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary  was  fully  convinced 
that  her  Son  Jesus,  the  eternally  Begotten  of  the  Father, 
could  avoid  death,  though  about  to  accept  it  willingly, 
yet,  being  His  Mother,  she  could  not  but  suffer  the  most 
acute  pain  on  seeing  His  crucifixion.  The  sword  which, 
according  to  the  prophet,  pierced  the  soul  of  Mary,  clearly 
indicates  the  terrible  anguish,  suffered  by  this  sorrowful 
mother  in  her  own  soul.  Before  the  Redeemer  appeared 
in  this  world,  no  one  could  recognise  with  certitude  those 
Jews  who,  either  received  the  grace  of  Jesus  Christ,  or 
refused  to  accept  the  grace  that  was  offered  them.  But 
when  the  tidings  of  His  birth  were  spread  abroad,  then 
the  hidden  thoughts  of  many  hearts  were  revealed. 
King  Herod,  hearing  this  news,  was  troubled ,  and  all 
Jerusalem  with  him;  whereas  the  shepherds  rejoiced  when 
the  angel  said  :  I  bring  you  good  tidings  of  great  joy ;  for 


38 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


this  day  is  born  to  you  a  Saviour  (Luke  ii.  io,  1 1) ;  and  they 
returned ,  glorifying  and  praising  God  for  all  the  things  they  had 
heard  and  seen  (verse  20).  The  splendour  of  the  miracles 
and  Divine  doctrine  of  the  Saviour  attracted  many  to 
Him,  and  they  listened  to  His  words ;  whereas  others 
called  Him  a  deceiver,  and  despised  Him.  And  when  they 
saw  Him  hanging  on  the  Cross,  they  even  blasphemed 
Him,  and  esteemed  Him  worthy  of  that  cruel  punish¬ 
ment  ;  whilst  the  former  showed  deep  sympathy  and 
grief  on  seeing  the  Author  of  life  condemned  to  death. 
The  Church  of  Jesus  has  until  now  felt  this  sword  of 
suffering,  and  will  be  pierced  by  it  till  the  end  of  the 
world ;  for,  as  a  mark  of  faith  and  salvation,  she  will  be 
continually  contradicted.  It  is  with  grief  and  sorrow 
that  the  Church  sees  great  multitudes  persevering  in 
infidelity  and  rushing  on  to  perdition,  though  very  many, 
hearing  and  obeying  the  word  of  God,  will  rise  with 
Jesus  Christ.  Her  sorrow  increases  when  the  thoughts 
of  many  hearts  are  revealed,  and  when  she  perceives  in 
the  field,  in  which  she  has  been  continually  sowing  the 
seed  of  the  Gospel,  cockle  growing  up.  Indeed,  the 
knowledge  that  the  cockle  of  sin  and  vice  is  eminently 
more  fertile,  that  it  takes  deep  root  and  shoots  forth 
luxuriantly,  choking  much  of  the  wheat  of  virtue  and 
innocence,  causes  her  tears  to  flow  in  abundance. 

IV.  Anna,  the  prophetess,  who  by  her  long  and  holy 
life  was  accounted  worthy  to  see  the  Redeemer  of  Israel, 
and  to  give  testimony  to  the  truth  that  she  perceived  in 
her  prophetic  mind,  is  the  type  of  the  Church  \  who  sees 
herself  deprived  of  the  visible  presence  of  her  Bridegroom 
and  Lord,  since  He  left  this  mortal  life.  The  number  of 
years  mentioned  by  the  Gospel  as  being  the  age  of  this 
widow,  represents  the  time  of  the  exile  of  the  Church  in 
a  foreign  land.  She  cannot,  on  account  of  this  present 


SUNDAY  WITHIN  THE  OCTAVE  OF  CHRISTMAS  39 

life  in  the  world,  be  united  with  her  Lord  and  Master, 
Whose  coming,  like  Anna  the  prophetess,  she  impatiently 
awaits  at  the  entrance  of  the  temple,  for  she  trusts  in 
His  promise  :  We  will  come  to  him,  and  make  our  abode  with 
him  (John  xiv.  23).  After  the  testimony  given  by  Simeon 
to  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  given  also  about  herself 
by  a  Virgin  in  the  conjugal  state,  it  seems  quite  natural, 
in  order  not  to  exclude  any  kind  of  conditions,  that  a 
widow,  venerable  both  by  her  position  and  holy  life, 
should  appear  in  the  person  of  Anna  and  testify  to  the 
coming  of  the  Redeemer  of  Israel,  and  confirm  this  by 
her  praises. 

V.  St.  Luke  speaks  here  of  the  return  of  Jesus  and  His 
parents  to  Galilee,  after  they  had  performed  all  things  accord¬ 
ing  to  the  law  of  the  Lord.  He  does  not  mention  the  flight 
into  Egypt,  already  recorded  by  St.  Matthew,  and  which 
he  did  not  think  it  necessary  to  repeat,  to  the  interruption 
of  his  narrative,  At  all  events,  we  know  that  St.  Luke, 
like  the  other  Evangelists,  was  enlightened  by  the  Holy 
Ghost ;  and  we  know  that,  had  the  things  he  omitted 
not  been  committed  to  writing,  the  omission  would  have 
been  supplied  later  on  by  the  inspiration  of  God,  so  that 
the  reader  could  place  them  in  their  proper  position  in  the 
Gospel  story.  As  to  the  words  added  by  St.  Luke  that 
the  Child  grew  and  ivaxed  strong ,  full  of  wisdom ,  and  the  grace 
of  God  ivas  in  Him,  we  remark  that  Jesus  Christ,  having 
taken  a  human  nature,  was  subjected  to  all  its  weak¬ 
nesses  and  infirmities,  and  could  as  man  grow  and  wax 
strong.  But,  considering  Him  only  as  the  Word  of  God 
and  God  Himself,  we  know  that  He  could  not  increase 
in  wisdom.  However,  in  all  truth  it  may  be  said  that 
He  was  full  of  wisdom  and  grace,  since  He  was  filled 
with  grace  as  the  Mediator  between  God  and  man,  and 
from  His  birth  was  overflowing  with  grace,  on  account 


40 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


of  the  perfect  union  between  God  and  man  in  one  Divine 
Person.  St.  John  confirms  all  this  when,  speaking  of  the 
Son  of  God  made  man,  he  calls  Him  full  of  grace  and  truth 
(John  i.  14),  meaning  by  this  expression  the  fulness  of 
His  Divinity,  expressed  by  St.  Luke  under  the  name  of 
wisdom. 

THE  FEAST  OF  THE  CIRCUMCISION. 

Gospel:  Luke  ii.  21.  At  that  time:  After  eight  days 
were  accomplished  that  the  Child  should  be  circumcised, 
His  name  was  called  Jesus,  which  was  called  by  the 
angel  before  He  was  conceived  in  the  womb. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AMBROSE,  BISHOP. 

Bk,  ii.,  on  Luke  ii. 

I.  The  Child  is  circumcised.  Who  is  that  Child  ?  It 
is  the  Child  of  Whom  it  is  said :  A  Child  is  born  to  us  ;  a 
Son  is  given  to  us  (Isa.  ix.  6).  Made  under  the  law ,  that  He 
might  redeem  them  who  were  under  the  law  (Gal.  iv.  4). 
And  His  parents  carried  Him  to  Jerusalem  to  present  Him  to 
the  Lord  (Luke  ii.  22).  I  have  explained,  in  my  commen¬ 
tary  on  Isaias,  what  is  meant  by  being  presented  to  the 
Lord ;  I  will  not,  therefore,  enter  into  the  subject  again. 
He  that  is  circumcised  in  heart  has  God  for  his  Protector, 
for  the  eyes  of  the  Lord  are  upon  the  just  (Ps.  xxxiii.  16). 
You  will  easily  see  that,  as  all  the  ceremonies  of  the  old 
law  were  types  of  the  realities  in  the  new,  so  the  circum¬ 
cision  of  the  body — a  necessary  duty — signified  the  cleans¬ 
ing  of  the  heart  from  the  guilt  of  sin.  But,  since  the 
body  and  the  mind  of  men  remain  yet  infected  with  a 
proneness  to  sin,  the  circumcision  of  the  eighth  day  is 
also  a  type  of  that  complete  cleansing  of  sin  with  which 


FEAST  OF  THE  CIRCUMCISION  41 

we  shall  be  endowed  at  the  Resurrection.  This  ceremony 
was  also  performed  in  obedience  to  the  commandment 
of  God  :  Every  male  opening  the  womb  shall  be  called  holy  to 
the  Lord  (Luke  ii.  23).  These  words  were  written  with 
special  reference  to  the  delivery  of  the  Blessed  Virgin. 
Truly,  He  that  opened  her  womb  was  holy,  for  He  was 
altogether  without  spot ;  and  we  understand  that  the  law 
was  specially  written  for  Him  from  the  words  of  the 
angel :  The  Holy  which  shall  be  born  of  Thee  shall  be  called  the 
Son  of  God  (Luke  i.  35).  Indeed,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world  was  not  born  after  a  human  and  corporal  manner, 
but  by  the  operation  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  by  Whom  He 
was  conceived  in  the  womb  of  the  most  pure  Virgin 
Mary. 

II.  Among  all  the  children  born  of  women  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  stood  alone,  and  could  in  all  truth  be  called 
holy.  From  the  first  moment  of  His  immaculate  birth 
He  felt  no  contagion  from  human  corruption,  for  His 
heavenly  majesty  drove  it  away.  If  we  are  to  follow  the 
letter,  and  say  that  every  male  opening  the  womb  is  holy, 
how  shall  we  explain  that  so  many  have  been  sinful  ? 
Was  Achab  holy?  Were  the  false  prophets  holy? 
Were  they  holy  on  whom  Elias  justly  called  down  fire 
from  heaven  ?  But  He,  to  Whom  the  sacred  command¬ 
ment  of  the  law  of  God  is  mystically  directed,  is  the  Holy 
One  of  Israel.  He  also  alone  opened  the  secret  womb  of 
His  holy  virgin-bride,  the  Church,  filling  her  with  sinless 
fruitfulness  to  give  birth  to  Christian  souls.  Therefore, 
Jesus  Christ,  on  account  of  the  wonderful  and  super¬ 
natural  manner  in  which  He  was  conceived  and  bom,  is 
the  only  first-born  among  men.  Nor  is  this  surprising, 
since  we  remember  that  He  said  to  His  prophet :  I  knew 
thee ,  and  before  thou  earnest  forth  out  of  the  womb9  I  sanctified 
thee  (Jer.  i.  5).  Now,  the  same  Who  blessed  and  sancti- 


42 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


fied  the  mother,  and  granted  birth  to  this  prophet  is  He 
Who  by  His  Divine  power  came  forth  holy  and  without 
a  spot  out  of  the  womb  of  His  own  mother. 


THE  EPIPHANY  OF  OUR  LORD. 

Gospel:  Mat.  ii.  1-12.  When  Jesus  therefore  was 
born  in  Bethlehem  of  Juda,  in  the  days  of  King  Herod, 
behold,  there  came  wise  men  from  the  East  to  Jerusalem, 
saying:  Where  is  He’ that  is  born  King  of  the  Jews? 
For  we  have  seen  His  star  in  the  East,  and  are  come  to 
adore  Him.  And  King  Herod,  hearing  this,  was  troubled, 
and  all  Jerusalem  with  him.  And,  assembling  together 
all  the  chief  priests  and  the  scribes  of  the  people,  he 
inquired  of  them  where  Christ  should  be  born.  But  they 
said  to  him:  In  Bethlehem  of  Juda.  For  so  it  is 
written  by  the  prophet :  And  thou,  Bethlehem,  the 
land  of  Juda,  art  not  the  least  among  the  Princes  of 
Juda;  for  out  of  thee  shall  come  forth  the  Captain  that 
shall  rule  my  people  Israel.  Then  Herod,  privately 
calling  the  wise  men,  learned  diligently  of  them  the  time 
of  the  star  which  appeared  to  them,  and  sending  them 
into  Bethlehem,  said  :  Go  and  diligently  inquire  after  the 
Child,  and  when  you  have  found  Him,  bring  me  word 
again,  that  I  also  may  come  and  adore  Him.  Who, 
having  heard  the  King,  went  their  way  ;  and  behold,  the 
star  which  they  had  seen  in  the  East  went  before  them 
until  it  came  and  stood  over  where  the  Child  was.  And 
seeing  the  star,  they  rejoiced  with  exceeding  great  joy ; 
and  entering  into  the  house,  they  found  the  Child  with 
Mary,  His  mother,  and  falling  down,  they  adored  Him  ; 
and  opening  their  treasures,  offered  Him  gifts,  gold  and 
frankincense  and  myrrh.  And  having  received  an  answer 


THE  EPIPHANY  OF  OUR  LORD 


43 


in  sleep  that  they  should  not  return  to  Herod,  they  went 
back  another  way  into  their  country. 

HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
CHURCH  OF  ST.  PETER  ON  THE  EPIPHANY. 

Tenth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  You  have  heard  from  the  Gospel  lesson,  beloved 
brethren,  how,  when  the  King  of  heaven  was  born,  the 
king  of  earth  was  troubled.  The  depths  of  earth  are 
stirred,  whilst  the  heights  of  heaven  are  opened.  Now, 
let  us  consider  the  question  why,  when  the  Redeemer 
was  born,  an  angel  brought  the  news  to  the  shepherds  of 
Judea,  but  a  star  led  the  wise  men  of  the  East  to  adore 
Him.  It  seems  as  if  the  Jews,  as  reasonable  creatures, 
received  a  revelation  from  a  reasonable  being,  that  is,  an 
angel ;  whilst  the  Gentiles  without,  not  listening  to  their 
reason,  are  attracted,  not  by  a  voice,  but  by  a  sign,  that 
is,  a  star.  Hence,  St.  Paul  says :  A  sign ,  not  to  believers , 
but  to  unbelievers ;  but  prophecies ,  mt  to  unbelievers ,  but  to 
believers  (i  Cor.  xiv.  22).  So  the  prophesying — that  is,  of 
an  angel — was  given  to  those  who  believed,  and  the  sign 
to  them  that  believed  not.  We  also  remark  that  later 
on  the  Redeemer  was  preached  among  the  Gentiles,  not 
by  Himself,  but  by  the  Apostles,  even  as  when  a  little 
child  He  is  shown  to  them,  not  by  the  voice  of  angels, 
but  merely  by  the  vision  of  a  star.  When  He  Himself 
began  to  speak,  He  was  made  known  to  us  by  teachers  ; 
but  when  He  laid  silent  in  the  manger,  by  the  silent 
testimony  in  heaven. 

II?  However,  whether  we  consider  the  signs  accom¬ 
panying  His  birth,  or  His  death,  this  special  thing  is 
wonderful,  namely,  the  hardness  of  heart  of  the  Jews, 
who  would  not  believe  in  Him,  in  spite  of  both  pro- 


44 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


phecies  and  miracles.  All  things  in  creation  bore  witness 
that  its  Creator  was  come.  Let  us  reckon  them  up 
after  the  manner  of  men.  The  heavens  knew  that  He 
was  God,  and  sent  a  star  to  shine  over  where  He  lay. 
The  sea  knew  it,  and  bore  Him  up  when  He  walked 
upon  it.  The  earth  knew  it,  and  quaked  when  He  died. 
The  sun  knew  it,  and  was  darkened.  The  rocks  and 
walls  knew  it,  and  broke  in  pieces  at  the  hour  of  His 
death.  Hell  knew  it,  and  gave  up  the  dead  that  were 
therein.  And  yet,  up  to  this  very  hour,  the  hearts  of  the 
unbelieving  Jews  do  not  acknowledge  that  He,  to  Whom 
all  nature  did  testify,  is  their  God,  and,  being  more 
hardened  than  rocks,  refuse  to  be  rent  by  repentance. 
But  that  which  increases  their  guilt  and  punishment  lies 
in  the  fact  that  they  despise  that  God  Whose  birth  had 
been  announced  to  them  by  the  prophets,  hundreds  of 
years  before,  and  Whom  they  had  seen  after  His  birth  in 
the  stable.  They  even  knew  the  place  of  His  birth,  for 
they  spoke  of  it  to  the  inquiring  Herod,  and  told  him 
that,  according  to  the  testimony  of  Holy  Scripture, 
Bethlehem  was  to  be  renowned  as  the  birthplace  of  the 
Messiah.  They  strengthen,  therefore,  our  faith,  whilst 
their  own  knowledge  condemns  them.  The  Jews  are 
like  Isaac,  whose  eyes  were  overtaken  with  the  darkness 
of  death,  when  he  blessed,  but  could  not  see  his  son 
Jacob  standing  before  him.  Thus  the  unhappy  nation 
was  struck  with  blindness,  and,  knowing  what  the 
prophets  had  said  about  the  Redeemer,  would  not  recog¬ 
nise  Him,  though  He  stood  in  the  midst  of  them. 

III.  When  Herod  heard  of  the  birth  of  our  King,  he 
betook  himself  to  his  cunning  wiles,  and,  lest  he  should 
be  deprived  of  an  earthly  kingdom,  he  desired  the  wise 
men  to  search  diligently  for  the  Child,  and  when  they 
had  found  Him,  to  bring  him  word  again.  He  said, 


THE  EPIPHANY  OF  OUR  LORD 


45 


that  he  also  may  come  and  adore  Him  ;  but,  in  reality,  if  he 
had.  found  Him,  that  he  might  put  Him  to  death. 
Now,  behold,  of  how  little  weight  is  the  wickedness  of 
man,  when  it  is  tried  against  the  counsel  of  the 
Almighty.  It  is  written:  There  is  no  wisdom ,  there  is  no 
prudence ,  there  is  no  counsel  against  the  Lord  (Prov.  xxi.  30). 
And  the  star  which  the  wise  men  saw  in  the  East  still 
led  them  on ;  they  found  the  new-born  King,  and  offered 
Him  gifts  ;  then  they  were  warned  in  a  dream  that  they 
should  not  return  to  Herod.  And  so  it  came  to  pass, 
that  when  Herod  sought  Jesus,  he  could  not  find  Him. 
Even  so  it  is  with  hypocrites  who,  whilst  they  make 
pretence  to  seek  the  Lord,  to  adore  Him,  find  Him  not. 

IV.  It  is  well  to  know  that  one  of  the  errors  of  the 
Priscillianist  heretics  consists  in  believing  that  every  man 
is  born  under  the  influence  of  a  star.  In  order  to  confirm 
this  notion,  they  bring  forward  the  instance  of  the  star 
of  Bethlehem  that  appeared  when  the  Lord  was  born, 
and  which  they  call  His  star,  that  is,  the  star  ruling  His 
fate  and  destiny.  But,  consider  the  words  of  the  Gospel 
concerning  this  star  ;  they  say  :  It  went  before  them  until  it 
came  and  stood  over  where  the  Child  was.  Whence  we  see 
that  it  was  not  the  Child  who  followed  the  star,  but  the 
star  that  followed  the  Child,  as  if  to  show  that  the  Child 
ruled  over  the  star,  instead  of  the  star  ruling  over  Him. 
Let,  therefore,  the  hearts  of  the  faithful  be  free  from  the 
thought  that  anything  rules  over  their  destiny.  In  this 
world  there  is  only  One  Who  directs  the  destiny  of  man, 
that  is,  He  Who  made  him.  Neither  was  man  made  for 
the  stars,  but  the  stars  for  man  ;  and  if  we  say  that  they 
rule  over  his  destiny,  we  set  them  above  him,  for  whose 
service  they  were  created.  When  Jacob  came  out  of  his 
mother’s  womb,  and  his  hand  took  hold  of  his  brother 
Esau’s  heel,  the  first  could  not  have  been  perfectly  born 


46  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

without  the  second  immediately  following..  Yet  such  was 
not  in  after-life  the  position  of  these  two  brothers,  whom 
their  mother  brought  forth  at  one  birth. 

V.  Should  a  ridiculous  astrologer,  according  to  his 
principles,  pretend  that  the  power  of  the  stars  depends 
on  the  very  moment  of  the  birth  to  which  their  whole 
operation  is  referred,  we  answer  that  the  birth  of  man 
requires  a  certain  space  of  time  during  which  the  stars  con¬ 
tinually  change  their  position.  These  changes  would  conse¬ 
quently  form  as  many  destinies  as  there  are  limbs  in  those 
who  are  born  during  that  space  of  time.  There  is  another 
fixed  rule  accepted  by  the  adepts  of  this  pseudo-science, 
namely,  that  he  who  is  born  under  the  sign  of  Aquarius 
(waterman)  will  never  have  any  other  profession  than 
that  of  Sa  fisherman.  Yet  we  know  from  history  that  the 
Gatulians  never  carry  on  that  business.  But  who  will 
pretend  that  not  one  of  them  was  ever  born  under  that 
special  sign  of  the  Zodiac  ?  By  the  same  principle  they 
will  say  that  all  those,  born  under  the  sign  of  the  Balance, 
will  be  bankers  or  money-lenders.  But  we  know  that 
there  are  many  nations  among  which  these  kinds  of 
business  are  unknown.  These  so-called  learned  astro¬ 
logers  must,  therefore,  confess,  either  that  these  nations 
have  not  this  sign  of  the  Zodiac,  or  that  none  of  their 
children  are  born  under  this  sign.  Many  nations,  as  we 
know,  have  a  law  that  their  rulers  must  be  of  royal 
blood.  But  are  not  many  poor  children  in  these  countries 
born  at  the  very  moment  when  the  one,  who  is  destined 
to  be  king,  sees  the  light  ?  Why,  then,  should  there  be 
a  difference  between  those  who  are  born  under  the  same 
sign,  so  that  some  are  clothed  in  purple  whilst  others  are 
slaves  ?  We  wish,  in  speaking  of  the  star  that  appeared 
to  the  wise  men,  to  say  these  few  words  against  the 
deceptions  of  astrology. 


THE  EPIPHANY  OF  OUR  LORD 


47 


VI.  The  wise  men  brought  gold,  frankincense  and 
myrrh.  Gold  is  a  gift  suitable  for  a  king,  frankincense 
is  offered  in  sacrifice  to  God,  and  with  myrrh  are  embalmed 
the  bodies  of  the  dead.  By  the  gifts,  therefore,  they 
presented  to  Him,  the  wise  men  set  forth  three  things 
concerning  Him,  to  Whom  they  offered  them.  The  gold 
signifies  that  He  was  King  ;  the  frankincense  that  He  was 
God,  and  the  myrrh  that  He  was  mortal.  There  are 
some  heretics  who  believe  Him  to  be  God,  but  confess 
not  His  Kingly  dominion  over  all  things.  These  offer 
Him  the  frankincense,  but  refuse  the  gold.  There  are 
some  others  who  admit  that  He  is  King,  but  deny  that 
He  is  God.  These  present  the  gold,  but  withhold  the 
frankincense.  Again,  there  are  other  heretics  who  pro¬ 
fess  that  Christ  is  both  God  and  King,  but  deny  that  He 
took  to  Himself  a  mortal  nature.  These  offer  Him  gold 
and  frankincense,  but  not  myrrh  for  the  burial  incident  to 
His  mortality.  Let  us,  however,  present  gold  to  the 
new-born  Lord,  acknowledging  His  universal  Kingship  ; 
let  us  offer  Him  frankincense,  confessing  that  He  Who 
had  been  made  manifest  in  time,  was  still  God  before 
time ;  let  us  give  Him  myrrh,  believing  that  He,  Who 
cannot  suffer  as  God,  became  capable  of  death  by  assum¬ 
ing  our  human,  mortal  nature.  There  is  also  another 
meaning  in  this  gold,  frankincense  and  myrrh.  Gold  is 
the  type  of  wisdom,  for,  as  Solomon  says,  wisdom  is  a 
treasure  to  be  desired,  and  that  it  is  found  in  the  mouth 
of  the  wise  (Prov.  xxi.  20,  Septuag.).  Frankincense, 
which  is  burnt  in  honour  of  God,  is  a  figure  of  prayer  ; 
witness  the  words  of  the  Psalmist :  Let  my  prayer  be 
directed  as  incense  in  Thy  sight  (Ps.  cxl.  2).  By  myrrh  is 
represented  the  mortification  of  the  body,  as  where  Holy 
Church  says  of  her  children  labouring  in  their  strife  after 
God  even  unto  death :  My  hands  dropped  with  myrrh 


48 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


(Cant.  v.  5).  We  offer,  therefore,  gold  to  this  new  King 
when  in  His  sight  we  reflect  the  brilliancy  of  true 
wisdom.  We  offer  Him  frankincense  when  our  pious 
prayers,  like  a  sweet  odour  before  God,  banish  all  wicked 
thoughts  and  inflame  good  desires.  We  offer  him  myrrh, 
when  by  fasting  and  penance  we  mortify  our  passions  ; 
for  through  the  effects  produced  by  the  myrrh,  as  we 
have  already  remarked,  the  bodies  are  preserved  from 
corruption.  Our  flesh  is  corrupted  when  we  give  up  this 
mortal  body  to  luxury,  as  the  prophet  says  :  7 he  beasts 
have  rotted  in  their  dung  (Joel  i.  17).  The  image  of  these 
beasts  indicates  those  carnal  beings  who  give  themselves 
up  to  their  shameful  desires,  and  hasten  towards  their 
own  destruction.  Webring,  therefore,  a  present  of  myrrh 
to  God,  when  by  temperance  and  mortification  we  pre¬ 
serve  our  bodies  from  all  impurity. 

VII.  The  wise  men  teach  us  also  a  great  lesson  in 
that  they  went  back  another  way  into  their  country ;  and 
what  they  did,  having  received  an  answer  in  sleep ,  we  ought 
to  do.  Our  country  is  heaven,  and  when  we  have  once 
known  Jesus,  we  can  never  reach  it  by  returning  to  the 
way,  wherein  we  walked  before  knowing  Him.  We 
have  gone  far  from  our  country  by  the  way  of  pride, 
disobedience,  worldliness,  and  forbidden  indulgence ;  we 
must  seek  that  heavenly  fatherland  by  subjection,  by 
contempt  of  the  things  which  are  seen,  and  by  curbing 
the  fleshly  appetites.  Let  us,  then,  depart  into  our  own 
country  by  another  way.  They  that  have  by  enjoyment 
put  themselves  away  from  it,  must  seek  it  again  by 
sorrow.  It  behoves  us,  therefore,  beloved  brethren,  to 
be  ever  fearful  and  watchful,  having  continually  before 
the  eyes  of  our  mind,  on  the  one  hand,  the  guilt  of  our 
doings,  and,  on  the  other,  the  judgment  at  the  last  day. 
It  behoves  us  to  think  how  that  awful  Judge,  Whose 


THE  EPIPHANY  OF  OUR  LORD 


49 


judgment  is  hanging  over  us,  but  has  not  yet  fallen, 
will  surely  come.  The  wrath  to  come  is  before  sinners, 
but  has  not  yet  smitten  them  ;  the  Judge  yet  tarries, 
that  when  ‘He  comes  there  may  perhaps  be  less  to 
condemn.  Let  us  afflict  ourselves  for  our  faults  with 
weeping,  and  with  the  psalmist,  let  us  come  before  His 
presence  with  thanksgiving  (Ps.  xciv.  2).  Let  us  take 
heed  that  we  be  not  befooled  by  the  appearance  of 
earthly  happiness,  or  seduced  by  the  vanity  of  any 
worldly  pleasure ;  for  the  Judge  is  at  hand,  Who  says  : 
Woe  to  yon  that  now  laugh ,  for  you  shall  mourn  and  weep 
(Luke  vi.  25).  Hence,  also,  Solomon  says  :  Laughter 
shall  be  mingled  with  sorrow ,  and  mourning  taketh  hold  of  the 
end  of  joy  (Prov.  xiv.  13).  And  again  :  Laughter  I 
counted  error ,  and  to  mirth  I  said:  Why  art  thou  vainly 
deceived?  (Eccles.  ii.  2).  And  yet  again:  The  heart  of 
the  wise  is  where  there  is  mournings  but  the  heart  of  fools 
where  there  is  mirth  (vii.  5).  Let  us  fear  lest  we  do  not 
fulfil'  the  commandments  given  to  us.  If  we  wish  to 
celebrate  this  feast  to  His  glory,  let  us  offer  Him  the 
acceptable  sacrifice  of  our  sorrow,  for  the  royal  prophet 
says  :  A  sacrifice  to  God  is  an  afflicted  spirit ;  a  contrite  and 
humbled  hearty  O  God ,  Thou  wilt  not  despise  (Ps.  1.  19). 
Our  former  faults  were  remitted  by  the  Sacrament  of 
Baptism,  yet  we  have  again  offended  God  ;  and  these 
sins  which  the  water  of  baptism  cannot  cleanse,  will 
be  forgiven  only  when  in  real  and  deep  sorrow  we  shed 
tears  of  contrition.  We  have  gone  away  from  our  real 
fatherland  ;  we  have  followed  the  false  gods  which  allured 
us ;  let  us,  therefore,  return  by  another  way,  the  way  of 
suffering,  the  bitterness  of  which  we  shall  endure  with 
the  grace  of  God, 


4 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


SO 


FIRST  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY. 

m 

Gospel  :  Luke  ii.  42-52.  When  Jesus  was  twelve  years 
old,  they  went  up  to  Jerusalem,  according  to  the  custom 
of  the  feast.  And  having  fulfilled  the  days,  when  they 
returned,  the  child  Jesus  remained  in  Jerusalem,  and 
His  parents  knew  it  not.  And  thinking  that  He  was  in 
the  company,  they  came  a  day’s  journey,  and  sought 
Him  among  their  kinsfolk  and  acquaintance.  And  not 
finding  Him,  they  returned  to  Jerusalem,  seeking  Him. 
And  it  came  to  pass,  that  after  three  days  they  found 
Him  in  the  temple,  sitting  in  the  midst  of  the  doctors, 
hearing  them  and  asking  them  questions.  And  all  that 
heard  Him  were  astonished  at  His  wisdom  and  His 
answers.  And  seeing  Him  they  wondered.  And  His 
mother  said  to  Him:  Son,  why  hast  Thou  done  so  to 
us  ?  Behold,  Thy  father  and  I  have  sought  Thee 
sorrowing.  And  He  said  to  them  :  How  is  it  that  you 
sought  Me  ?  Did  you  not  know  that  I  must  be  about 
My  Father’s  business?  And  they  understood  not  the 
word  that  He  spoke  unto  them.  And  He  went  down 
with  them,  and  came  to  Nazareth,  and  was  subject  to 
them.  And  His  mother  kept  all  these  words  in  her 
heart.  And  Jesus  advanced  in  wisdom  and  age,  and 
grace  with  God  and  men. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AMBROSE,  BISHOP. 

Book  ii.,  on  Luke  ii. 

I.  When  our  Lord  was  twelve  years  old,  He  began  to 
dispute,  as  we  read  in  the  Gospel.  And  the  number  of 
His  years  was  the  same  as  the  number  of  His  Apostles, 
whom  He  afterwards  sent  forth  to  preach  the  faith.  He 


FIRST  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY 


51 


Who,  as  to  His  humanity,  was  filled  with  wisdom  and 
grace  from  God,  was  not  careless  of  the  parents  of  this 
same  humanity,  and,  after  three  days,  was  pleased  to 
be  found  in  the  Temple;  thereby  foreshadowing  that, 
after  the  three  days  of  His  Passion,  He,  that  had  been 
reckoned  with  the  dead,  would  present  Himself  living 
to  our  faith,  on  His  heavenly  throne  and  in  His  Divine 
Majesty. 

II.  How  is  it  that  you  sought  Me  ?  Did  you  not  know 
that  I  must  be  about  My  Father's  business  ?  Thus  spolce 
Jesus  to  His  parents,  to  teach  us  that  in  Him  there  are 
two  generations — one  from  His  Father,  another  from 
His  mother.  That  from  His  Father  is  His  eternal 
generation  as  God  the  Son ;  that  from  His  mother  is 
that  whereby  He  came  into  this  world  to  work  for  us 
and  minister  to  us.  These  acts  of  His,  therefore,  which 
are  above  nature,  beyond  His  age,  and  different  from 
His  custom,  proceeded  not  from  the  strength  of  His 
humanity,  but  from  the  power  of  His  Divinity.  On 
another  occasion  His  mother  moved  Him  to  work  a 
miracle ;  on  the  contrary,  here  He  objects  to  His 
mother’s  words,  because  she  treats  as  belonging  to  His 
humanity  what  was  of  His  Divinity.  On  the  first 
occasion  it  is  said  that  He  was  twelve  years  old  ;  but  on 
the  other  He  had  already  disciples.  His  mother  had 
witnessed  the  wonder  He  worked  on  an  earlier  occasion, 
and  had  learnt  from  her  Son  to  call  on  the  mightier 
nature  for  a  work  of  power. 

III.  The  Gospel  adds:  And  He  went  down  with  them , 
and  came  to  Nazareth,  and  was  subject  to  them.  Who  will  be 
surprised  to  see  that  the  Teacher  of  all  virtues  should 
practise  those  which  were  inspired  by  His  devotion  to 
His  parents  ?  Let  us  not  wonder,  then,  how  He,  Who 
was  subject  to  His  mother,  was  about  His  Father’s 

4 — 2 


52 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


business.  His  subjection  to  His  mother  proceeded,  not 
from  weakness,  but  from  dutiful  affection.  Let  the  false 
serpent  of  heresy  lift  its  head  from  its  cruel  lair  and  spit 
poison  from  its  venomous  breast.  F or  the  heretics  say  that, 
as  the  Son  was  sent  by  the  Father,  the  Father  is,  there¬ 
fore,  greater ;  and  if  the  Father  be  greater  than  the  Son, 
it  follows  that  the  Son  is  less;  yea,  that  He  Who  is  sent 
has  of  necessity  need  of  some  strengthening  from  outside. 
He  was  subject  to  His  mother ;  had  He  need  of  human 
help  ?  God  forbid !  He  was  obedient  to  His  servant 
who  had  said  :  Behold  the  handmaid  of  the  Lord  (Luke  i.  38). 
He  also  recognised  the  authority  of  him  who  on  earth  was 
thought  to  be  His  father.  Let  us  not  be  surprised,  there¬ 
fore,  to  see  that  He  was  obedient  to  His  Heavenly  Father; 
for,  if  it  is  a  virtue  to  be  subject  to  human  beings,  the 
obedience  to  God  must  not  be  called  weakness.  The 
honour  paid  by  Jesus  to  His  parents  explains  the  honour 
which,  as  He  said,  was  due  to  God.  The  Father  honoured 
the  Son,  why  should  not  this  Son  honour  His  Father  ? 
At  the  baptism  of  Jesus  the  voice  of  the  Father  was 
heard,  and  affirmed  this  was  His  beloved  Son,  in  Whom 
He  was  well  pleased.  And  this  very  Son,  after  assuming 
our  human  nature,  should  not  be  allowed,  according  to 
some  heretics,  to  raise  His  voice  and,  expressing  the 
feelings  of  His  heart,  publish  that  the  Father  is  greater 
than  He  ?  We  are  right  when  we  say  that  the  Lord  is 
infinitely  great  and  worthy  of  all  honour  and  praise  ;  that 
His  greatness  has  no  limits,  and  we  confess  that  He  can 
neither  increase  nor  decrease.  Why  should  we  not  also 
believe  that  this  Son,  after  uniting  our  humanity  with  His 
divinity,  was  obedient  to  His  Father,  specially  after  the 
testimony  of  the  honour  paid  by  the  Father  to  His  Son  ? 

IV.  Let  us  take  this  lesson  to  heart,  in  order  to  be  con¬ 
vinced  of  our  duty  to  obey  our  parents.  For  we  see  how  the 


OCTAVE  DAY  OF  THE  EPIPHANY  53 

adorable  Son  of  God,  being  one  with  the  Father  in  time,  in 
will  and  in  action,  nevertheless  seems  to  be  obedient  to  His 
Father.  The  person  of  the  Son  is  not  the  same  as  the 
person  of  the  Father ;  yet  their  divine  power  is  the  same. 
Let  us  also  consider  that  the  Son  was  begotten  without 
labour  of  the  Father  from  all  eternity;  whereas  our  birth 
was  to  our  parents  a  cause  of  many  troubles  and  anxieties. 
Is  not  a  mother  giving  birth  to  a  son  exposed  to  many 
dangers  ?  Is  she  not  for  a  long  time  troubled  with 
anxiety  and  fear  ?  And  when  her  wishes  are  fulfilled 
and  her  pains  are  over,  her  anxiety  is  not  at  an  end,  on 
account  of  the  dangers  to  which  the  new-born  child  will 
be  exposed.  ,  What  shall  I  say  about  the  solicitude  of 
the  father  in  providing  for  his  children,  about  his  ex¬ 
penses  for  their  education,  and  specially  about  his  cares 
and  labours,  of  which  a  future  generation  will  reap  the 
benefit  ?  All  this  shows  the  duty  of  children  to  be 
obedient  and  grateful  to  their  parents.  And  could  there 
be  a  son  so  unnatural  as  to  find  the  life  of  his  father  too 
long  and  his  income  too  small  to  share  it  with  him  ? 
Let  such  a  one  be  ashamed  of  himself,  and  remember 
the  great  love  of  Jesus,  Who  deigns  to  make  us  His 
coheirs  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

OCTAVE  DAY  OF  THE  EPIPHANY. 

Gospel:  John  i.  29-34.  At  that  time :  John  saw  Jesus 
coming  to  Him,  and  he  saith  :  Behold  the  Lamb  of  God, 
behold  Him  Who  taketh  away  the  sin  of  the  world. 
This  is  He  of  Whom  I  said :  After  me  there  cometh  a 
man,  Who  is  preferred  before  me  ;  because  He  was  before 
me.  And  I  knew  Him  not,  but  that  He  may  be  made 
manifest  in  Israel,  therefore  am  I  come  baptizing  with 
water.  And  John  gave  testimony  saying :  I  saw  the 


54 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


Spirit  coming  down  as  a  dove  from  heaven,  and  He 
remained  upon  Him.  And  I  knew  Him  not ;  but  He 
Who  sent  me  to  baptize  with  water,  said  to  me  :  He  upon 
Whom  thou  shalt  see  the  Spirit  descending  and  remaining 
upon  Him,  He  it  is  that  baptizeth  with  the  Holy  Ghost. 
And  I  saw,  and  I  gave  testimony  that  this  is  the  Son  of 
God. 


HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Sixth  Tract  on  John. 

I.  When  Jesus  was  baptized  by  St.  John  a  dove  came 
down  from  Heaven  and  rested  upon  Him.  At  the  same 
time  the  three  Persons  of  the  Holy  Trinity,  in  Whom 
we  believe,  were  manifested  ;  for,  as  the  Gospel  says : 
Jesus ,  being  baptized ,  forthwith  came  out  of  the  water  ;  and  lo , 
the  heavens  were  opened  to  Him ,  and  He  saw  the  Spirit  of  God 
descending  as  a  dove ,  and  coming  upon  Him .  And  behold ,  a  voice 
from  heaven  saying :  This  is  My  beloved  Son9in  Whom  I  am  well 
pleased  (Matt.  iii.  16,  17).  We  see  here,  then,  the  adorable 
Trinity :  the  Father,  Whose  voice  was  heard  ;  the  Son, 
Who  was  present  in  His  sacred  Humanity  ;  and  the 
Holy  Ghost,  Who  showed  Himself  in  the  form  of  a  dove. 
It  was  in  the  name  of  this  Blessed  Trinity  that  the 
Apostles  were  sent,  and  we  know  well  that  such  was  the 
case.  Nevertheless,  we  are  confronted  with  the  fact  that 
there  are  some  heretics  who  disbelieve  this  plain  truth, 
or,  rather,  who  close  their  eyes  to  the  light  shining  before 
them  ;  for,  indeed,  it  is  clear  as  the  noonday  sun  that  the 
Apostles  were  sent  forth  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and 
of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  to  teach  and  baptize, 
and  also  that  they  were  so  sent  by  our  Saviour  Himself, 
of  Whom  it  is  written  :  He  it  is  that  baptizeth  (John  i.  33). 
And  Jesus  spoke  thus  by  His  Evangelist,  since  He  had 


OCTAVE  DAY  OF  THE  EPIPHANY 


55 


reserved  to  Himself  that  power,  the  ministry  only  of 
which  He  has  delegated  to  others. 

II.  Now,  St.  John  was  not  at  first  aware  of  this  truth  ; 
he  only  learned  it  on  the  occasion  of  the  baptism  of  our 
Lord.  He  already  knew  that  Jesus  was  the  Son  of  God 
and  the  supreme  Ruler  of  the  universe,  and  that  He 
was  the  Christ,  and  would  baptize  with  the  Holy  Ghost. 
But  what  he  did  not  know  before,  but  only  understood 
from  the  dove  descending  and  remaining  upon  our  Lord, 
was  this :  that  our  Redeemer  would  retain  an  absolute 
power  over  baptism,  which  He  was  about  to  establish  as 
a  sacrament ;  that  He  would  not  communicate  His  power 
over  the  Sacrament  to  His  ministers,  but  would  employ 
them  only  to  minister  therein  the  power  which  He  retains 
for  Himself.  And  it  is  in  this  power  Jesus  Christ  reserves 
to  Himself  alone,  and  is  yet  daily  administered  by  His 
priests,  that  the  unity  of  the  Church  resides.  Indeed, 
the  true  Church  is  likened  to  a  dove  in  Holy  Scripture, 
for  we  read  :  One  is  My  dove ,  My  perfect  one  is  but  one ;  she 
is  the  only  one  of  her  mother ,  the  chosen  of  her  that  bore  her 
(Cant.  vi.  8).  But  were  the  power  of  our  Saviour  in  the 
sacrament  of  salvation  to  belong  to.  His  ministers,  there 
would  be  as  many  baptisms  as  ministers,  and  there  would 
no  longer  be  the  baptism  of  Christ. 

III.  Notice,  beloved  brethren,  that  before  St.  John 
was  allowed  by  our  Lord  to  baptize  Him,  he,  the 
Baptist,  knew  that  the  Saviour  would  baptize  with  the 
Holy  Ghost.  But  when  Jesus  had  received  Baptism, 
St.  John,  having  seen  the  dove  come  down  from  heaven, 
learnt  something  hitherto  unknown  to  him,  that  is,  that 
though  there  would  be  ministers  of  that  power,  yet  this 
power  to  impart  the  Holy  Ghost  in  Baptism  would  be 
reserved  to  Jesus  Christ  Himself  alone,  and  would  not 
be  communicated  to  others.  This  is  what  St.  John 


56 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

learnt  on  that  occasion.  But  how  can  we  prove  that 
he  knew  the  Redeemer  would  baptize  with  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  that  he  understood  that  this  power  was  not 
to  be  transmitted  to  anyone  ?  The  Gospel  tells  us  that 
John  knew  Jesus  even  before  He  came  to  him  at  the 
Jordan  to  be  baptized,  for  he  then  said  to  Jesus  :  I  ought 
to  be  baptized  by  Thee ,  and  contest  Thou  to  me  ?  (Matt.  iii.  14). 
Behold,  he  knew  Him  to  be  the  Lord,  the  Son  of  God ! 
But  how  can  we  prove  that  he  knew  Him  to  be  He 
Who  would  baptize  with  the  Holy  Ghost  ?  Before  the 
Lord  came  to  the  river,  whither  many  had  betaken 
themselves  to  be  baptized  by  John,  the  Baptist  said:  I 
indeed  baptize  you  with  water;  but  there  shall  come  One  mightier 
than  J,  the  latchet  of  Whose  shoe  I  am  not  worthy  to  loose  :  JHe 
shall  baptize  you  with  the  Holy  Ghost  and  with  fire  (Luke 
iii.  16).  But  how  could  John  say,  before  the  coming  of 
the  dove,  that  he  knew  not  Jesus  ?  Are  we  to  call  him 
a  liar  ?  God  forbid !  But  when  the  dove  came  down 
and  rested  on  Christ,  then  it  was  he  first  knew  that  the 
Lord  reserved  the  power  of  Baptism  as  peculiar  to  Him¬ 
self,  so  that,  let  whomsoever  you  will,  whether  just  or 
unjust,  baptize  with  His  Baptism,  yet  the  virtue  of  the 
Sacrament  will  proceed,  not  from  the  minister,  whether 
just  or  unjust,  but  from  Him  on  Whom  the  dove  rested. 
Thus  Christ  is  the  real  Baptizer  in  every  Christian 
Baptism,  and  will  be  so  to  the  end  of  all  time.  In  this 
sense  it  is  written  of  Him  :  He  it  is  that  baptizeth  with  the 
Holy  Ghost .  Should  Peter  baptize,  the  real  Baptizer  is 
Christ;  should  Paul,  should  Judas,  the  real  Baptizer  is 
still  Christ.* 

*  In  order  to  understand  this  homily,  wm  must  bear  in  mind  that 
St.  Augustine’s  intention  was  to  refute  the  Donatists.  These  heretics 
pretended  that  in  the  Holy  Trinity  the  Father  was  greater  than  the 
Son,  and  the  Son  greater  than  the  Holy  Ghost,  They  also  thought 


OCTAVE  DAY  OF  THE  EPIPHANY 


57 


IV.  For  if  the  sanctity  of  Baptism  depended  on  the 
personal  holiness  of  the  minister,  no  two  baptisms  would 
be  exactly  alike;  then  each  recipient  of  the  Sacrament 
would  think  himself  more  or  less  regenerated,  according 
to  the  greater  or  less  holiness  of  the  minister  of  the 
Sacrament.  But,  beloved  brethren,  note  this  well.  The 
saints,  those  holy  servants  of  God,  who  appertain  to  the 
dove,  whose  portion  is  in  Jerusalem,  those  good  men  in 
the  Church,  of  whom  the  Apostle  says :  The  Lord  knoweth 
who  are  His  (2  Tim.  ii.  19),  differ  among  themselves  by 
diversity  of  graces  and  holiness,  some  one  having  attained 
to  one  degree  of  sanctity,  another  to  another.  It  results, 
therefore,  that  though  one  person  be  baptized  by  a  saint, 
and  another  by  a  less  worthy  minister,  whose  chastity 
is  not  so  intense,  and  who  has  made  less  progress  in 
the  way  of  perfection,  yet,  nevertheless,  each  recipient 
receives  the  same  grace  through  the  same  Sacrament. 
How  could  this  be,  were  it  not  that  Christ  Himself  is 
the  effectual  Baptizer  ?  Thus  the  degree  of  sanctity 
and  merit  of  the  minister  does  not  result  in  a  more  or 
less  perfect  Sacrament,  which  is  always  one  and  the 
same.  And  for  the  same  reason  it  is  evident  that  even 
though  the  minister  be  unworthy,  yet,  either  because  his 
Unworthiness  is  unknown  to  the  Church,  or  because  she 
tolerates  him  as  chaff,  which  at  the  harvest  will  be 
separated  from  the  corn,  the  Baptism  he  administers  is 
identical  with  that  administered  by  a  minister  never  so 
worthy,  since  in  every  case  Jesus  Himself  is  the  effectual 
Baptizer. 

that  Catholics  should  be  re-baptized.  For  this  reason  St.  Augustine 
repeats  over  ancl  over  again  that  the  three  Persons  of  the  Blessed 
Trinity  are  equal,  that  they  have  one  and  the  same  Divinity,  and  that 
Baptism  is  the  same  Sacrament  by  whatsoever  officiant  it  be  ad¬ 
ministered. 


58 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


V.  Let  us,  then,  beloved  brethren,  recognise  this 
truth,  and  not  act  as  those  blind  heretics  who  do  not 
see  it,  or  pretend  not  to  do  so,  and  thus  hasten  towards 
their  condemnation.  If  they  would  but  open  their  eyes, 
it  would  be  evident  to  them  that  the  Apostles  and  dis¬ 
ciples  of  the  Lord  were  sent  by  their  Master  to  all  the 
nations  of  the  earth,  and  commanded  to  baptize  all  men 
in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  In  fact,  since  our  Lord  sent  them  to  all 
nations,  He  sent  them  to  His  inheritance .  For  we  know 
the  prophet  referred  to  Him  when  he  said  :  Ask  of  Me, 
and  I  will  give  thee  the  Gentiles  for  thine  inheritance ,  and  the 
utmost  parts  of  the  earth  for  thy  possession  (Ps.  ii.  8).  And 
it  is  not  unknown  to  you  that  the  law  came  forth  from* Sion, 
and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from  Jerusalem  (Isa.  ii.  3),  and  also 
that  our  Lord  preached  first  at  Jerusalem,  and  that  it 
was  thence  He  sent  His  disciples,  saying :  Going,  there¬ 
fore,  teach  ye  all  nations ,  baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the 
Father ,  and  of  the  Son ,  and  ' of  the  Holy  Ghost  (Matt, 
xxviii.  19).  You  will  notice  that  our  Lord,  when  send¬ 
ing  forth  His  disciples  and  commanding  them  to  baptize 
all  nations,  did  not  say  in  the  names  of  the  Father,  and 
of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  but  in  the  name  of  the 
Father ,  and  of  the  Son ,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost ,  to  give  us 
to  understand  that  there  is  only  one  God.  The  Apostle 
emphasizes  this  when  explaining  God’s  promise  to 
Abraham  :  To  Abraham  were  the  promises  made  and  to  his 
seed ,  He  saith  not,  And  to  his  seeds,  as  of  many ; 
but  as  of  one ,  And  to  thy  seed,  which  is  Christ  (Gal. 
iii.  16).  These  words,  as  St.  Paul  remarks,  do  not 
refer  to  the  multitude  of  his  descendants,  but  to  one, 
Who  is  Jesus  Christ,  to  give  .us  to  understand  that,  as 
Jesus  is  one,  so  also  there  is  but  one  God — the  Father, 
the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost. 


SECOND  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY  59 

VI.  However,  do  not  boast  of  your  baptism,  nor  be 
proud  on  account  of  that  privilege ;  for,  though  your 
baptism  was  perfectly  effectual,  as  I  am  bound  to  acknow¬ 
ledge,  and  though  the  dove  recognised  it,  yet  she  is  con¬ 
tinually  lamenting  that,  in  spite  of  this  sacrament,  uniting 
you  with  her,  you  are  nevertheless  outside  her  communion, 
and  consequently  out  of  the  road  to  salvation.  She  sees 
in  you  the  sign  of  a  Christian  and  approves  of  it,  but  at 
the  same  time  she  sees  and  deplores  your  disobedience  to 
the  Church  ;  therefore  she  calls  and  invites  you  to  return 
to  her.  You  are  wrong  in  glorying  in  her  Baptism,  since 
you  refuse  to  hear  and  obey  hex'.  The  wicked,  whom 
the  Church  does  not  recognise  as  her  children,  may  as 
well  boast  of  the  privilege  of  her  Baptism.  Are  there 
not,  however,  many  avaricious  and  intemperate  people, 
and  others  who  are  secretly  idolaters,  or  those,  again,  who 
surreptitiously  consult  fortune-tellers  and  astrologers,  who 
yet  possess  the  self-same  privilege  of  baptism  in  which 
you  glory  ?  And  all  this  time  the  dove,  seeing  herself 
among  ravens,  is  lamenting  such  a  state.  Cease,  then, 
to  boast  of  a  blessing  which  you  have  in  common  with 
the  wicked,  and  endeavour  to  practise  humility,  charity, 
peace,  virtues  of  which  you  stand  in  great  need,  so  that 
through  them  the  Baptism  you  have  received  may  be 
profitable  to  you. 

SECOND  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY. 

Gospel:  John  ii.  1-11.  At  that  time:  There  was  a 
marriage  in  Cana  of  Galilee;  and  the  mother  of  Jesus 
was  there.  And  Jesus  also  was  invited,  and  His  disciples, 
to  the  marriage.  And  the  wine  failing,  the  mother  of 
Jesus  saith  to  Him:  They  have  no  wine.  And  Jesus 
saith  to  her :  Woman,  what  is  it  to  Me  and  to  thee  ?  My 


6o 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


hour  is  not  yet  come.  His  mother  said  to  the  waiters : 
Whatsoever  He  shall  say  to  you,  do  ye.  Now  there 
were  set  there  six  water-pots  of  stone,  according  to 
the  manner  of  purifying  of  the  Jews,  containing  two  or 
three  measures  apiece.  Jesus  saith  to  them:  Fill  the 
water-pots  with  water.  And  they  filled  them  up  to  the 
brim.  And  Jesus  saith  to  them  :  Draw  out  now,  and 
carry  to  the  chief  steward  of  the  feast.  And  they  carried 
it.  And  when  the  chief  steward  had  tasted  the  water 
made  wine,  and  knew  not  whence  it  was,  but  the  waiters 
knew  who  had  drawn  the  water,  the  chief  steward  calleth 
the  bridegroom,  and  saith  to  him  :  Every  man  at  first 
setteth  forth  good  wine,  and  when  men  have  well  drunk, 
then  that  which  is  worse.  But  thou  hast  kept  the  good 
wine  until  now.  This  beginning  of  miracles  did  Jesus  in 
Cana  of  Galilee ;  and  manifested  His  glory,  and  His 
disciples  believed  in  Him. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Ninth  Tract  on  John. 

I.  The  fact  that  our  Lord  was  pleased  to  be  asked  to, 
and  to  attend,  the  marriage,  shows  plainly — even  setting 
aside  any  mystical  interpretation — that  He  is  the  Author 
and  Blesser  of  marriage.  There  were  yet  to  arise  those 
of  whom  the  Apostle  has  warned  us  as  forbidding  to  marry 
(i  Tim,  iv.  3),  and  who  say  that  marriage  is  a  bad  thing  in 
itself  and  a  work  of  the  devil.  Yet  we  read  in  the  Gospel 
that  when  our  Lord  was  asked :  Is  it  lawful  for  a  man  to 
put  away  his  wife  for  every  cause  ?  (Matt.  xix.  3),  He 
answered  that  it  was  not  lawful,  unless  it  were  for  forni¬ 
cation.  In  which  answer  you  will  remember  that  He 
used  these  words :  What  God  hath  joined  together ,  let  no 
man  put  asunder  (ver.  6).  They  who  are  well  instructed 


SECOND  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY  61 

in  the  Catholic  religion  know  that  God  is  the  Author  of 
marriage  and  blessed  it ;  and  that,  whilst  the  union  of  man 
and  wife  in  marriage  is  from  God,  divorce  is  from  the 
devil.  But  it  is  lawful  for  a  man  to  put  away  his  wife  in 
case  of  fornication ;  for  by  not  keeping  her  faith  to  her 
husband,  the  woman  has  first  willed  to  be  a  wife  no 
longer.  But  even  those  who  have  made  a  vow  of  their 
virginity  to  God,  and  have  thereby  attained  to  a  higher 
degree  of  honour  and  holiness  in  the  Church,  are  not 
unmarried  ;  for  they  indeed  pertain  to  that  marriage  with 
the  whole  Church,  in  which  nuptials  Christ  is  their 
Spouse.  The  Lord,  then,  being  invited,  went  to  the 
marriage,  to  strengthen  the  marriage- tie,  and  to  shed 
light  on  the  hidden  meaning  of  matrimony.  And  in  that 
marriage-feast  the  bridegroom,  to  whom  it  was  said,  thou 
hast  kept  the  good  wine  until  now ,  was  a  figure  of  the  Lord, 
Who  has  kept  until  now  the  good  wine,  namely,  the 
Gospel. 

II.  With  the  help  and  grace  of  God  we  will  now  fulfil 
our  promise,  and  begin  by  explaining  the  mysteries  hidden 
in  this  Gospel.  We  say,  therefore,  that  in  the  earliest 
times  God  gave  His  revelation,  and  never  ceased  during 
the  following  generations,  thereby  to  instruct  the  world. 
Should  the  Lord  Jesus  not  be  recognised  in  these  revela¬ 
tions,  then  they  may  be  compared  with  the  water  hiding 
in  some  degree  the  wine  which  was  mixed  with  it. 
St.  Paul  conveys  this  meaning,  when,  speaking  of  the 
unbelieving  Jews,  he  says  :  Even  until  this  day  when  Moses 
is  read,  the  veil  is  upon  their  heart .  But  when  they  shall  be 
converted  to  the  Lord,  this  veil  shall  be  taken  away  (2  Cor.  iii.  15). 
By  this  veil  was  meant  the  obscurity  of  the  revelations, 
which  prevented  them  from  understanding  their  meaning. 
But  this  veil  disappears  when  Jesus,  the  end  of  all  pro¬ 
phecies,  is  known.  Then  the  light  dispels  the  darkness 


62 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


of  our  ignorance  and  false  wisdom,  and  that,  which  like 
water  was  tasteless,  is  changed  into  precious  wine  ;  for, 
though  we  should  read  all  the  books  containing  the 
words  of  the  prophets,  yet,  if  we  had  no  knowledge 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Who  is  the  key  of  them,  they  would 
surely  seem  tasteless  and  meaningless.  But  when  we 
read  them  in  the  knowledge  of  Jesus,  they  will  impart  to 
our  heart  real  happiness  ;  our  soul  will  remain  undefiled 
by  sensuality  ;  past  things  will  be  forgotten,  and  we  shall 
think  only  of  the  great  wonders  spoken  of  by  the  ancient 
prophets. 

III.  Prophecy  belongs  to  all  times,  yet  it  had  not 
ceased  to  speak  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  different  genera¬ 
tions  following  each  other  in  the  successive  ages  of  the 
world,  and  its  meaning  was  hidden  to  them.  In  order 
to  show  that  the  prophecies  concerning  the  person  of 
Jesus  Christ  continued  to  announce  Him  during  all  the 
ages  preceding  His  coming,  we  need  only  mention  the 
words  that  Jesus  Christ  Himself  addressed  to  His  disciples 
after  His  Resurrection.  When  He  saw  that,  though  they 
had  followed  Him  during  His  life,  yet  for  His  sake  were 
much  troubled  ;  that  the  hope  of  seeing  Him  rise  from 
the  dead  had  forsaken  them,  notwithstanding  that  the 
thief  crucified  with  Him  had,  by  his  faith  and  confidence, 
deserved  to  be  received  by  Christ  into  paradise  on  that 
day,  and  that  His  disciples  were  still  uncertain  and 
doubtful ;  yea,  that  they  even  reproached  themselves  for 
having  perhaps  been  too  credulous  in  believing  Him  to 
be  the  Messiah  ;  then  He  said  to  one  of  the  disciples 
going  to  Emmaus  :  O  foolish  and  slow  of  heart  to  believe  in 
all  things  which  the  prophets  have  spoken  !  Ought  not  Christ 
to  have  suffered  these  things ,  and  so  to  enter  into  His  glory  ? 
(Luke  xxiv.  25).  Then  He  expounded  to  them  in  all 
the  Scriptures,  beginning  at  Moses  and  all  the  prophets, 


SECOND  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY  63 

the  things  that  were  concerning  Him.  Later  on  He 
ordered  His  disciples  to  see  His  hands  and  feet,  and  to 
feel  Him  with  their  hands,  in  order  to  be  convinced  that 
He  was  risen,  and  said  to  them  :  These  are  the  words  which 
I  spoke  to  you  while  I  was  yet  with  you ,  and  all  things  must 
needs  be  fulfilled ,  which  are  written  in  the  law  of  Moses ,  and  in 
the  prophets,  and  in  the  psalms ,  concerning  Me  (Luke  xxiv. 
44).  Then  He  opened  their  understanding ,  that  they  might 
understand  the  Scriptures .  And  He  said  to  them  :  Thus  it  is 
written ,  and  thus  it  behoved  Christ  to  suffer ,  and  to  rise  again 
from  the  dead  the  third  day ;  and  that  penance  and  the 
remission  of  sins  should  be  preached  in  His  name  unto  all 
nations ,  beginning  at  Jerusalem  (vers.  45,  46,  47). 

IV.  When  these  words,  taken  from  Scripture — and 
their  meaning  is  evident  and  clear — are  well  understood, 
then  the  mysteries,  hidden  under  the  miracle  of  our 
Gospel,  are  laid  open  to  every  Christian.  Indeed,  when 
we  consider  what  our  Lord  said  to  His  disciples,  namely 
that  all  things  must  needs  be  fulfilled  which  were  written 
concerning  Him,  we  recognise  that  He  spoke  of  the  law, 
the  prophets  and  the  psalms,  to  show  that  He  meant  all 
the  books  of  the  Old  Testament  containing  the  prophecies 
concerning  Him.  But  since  all  these  sacred  books,  as 
we  remarked,  were  represented  by  the  water  used  for 
this  miracle,  our  Lord  called  the  disciples  foolish  and  slow 
of  heart ,  because  they  still  considered  Holy  Scripture, 
which  should  have  been  to  them  a  precious  wine,  as 
tasteless  water.  Yet,  how  does  Christ  change  for  His 
disciples  the  water  into  the  choicest  wine  ?  He  opened 
their  understanding ,  that  they  might  understand  the  Scriptures , 
and  explained  to  them  the  prophets.  And  the  disciples 
having  drunk  of  this  heavenly  wine,  said  to  one  another  : 
Was  not  our  heart  burning  within  us ,  whilst  He  spoke  in  the 
way ,  and  opened  to  us  the  Scriptures  ?  (Luke  xxiv.  32). 


64 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


Now  the  Apostles  recognised  Jesus  Christ  in  these 
Sacred  Books,  wherein  they  had  not  perceived  Him 
before,  and  understood  the  changing  of  the  water  into 
wine.  For  at  that  moment,  what  till  then  had  seemed 
to  them  void  of  taste,  became  all  at  once  agreeable  food 
and  precious  drink,  wherewith  they  were  filled.  We  do 
not  read  that  in  working  this  miracle  our  Lord  had  the 
water  contained  in  the  water-pots  poured  out,  to  substitute 
for  it  wine.  He  could  have  done,  on  this  occasion,  what 
He  did  when  feeding  five  thousand  men,  besides  women 
and  children,  with  five  loaves,  when  He  produced  from 
the  treasures  of  His  infinite  power  the  enormous  quantity 
of  bread  required  for  the  feeding  of  that  vast  multitude. 
The  five  loaves  would  not  have  been  enough  to  fill  the 
twelve  baskets.  How  different  His  action  in  the  miracle 
of  which  we  are  speaking  !  Instead  of  pouring  it  away, 
He  changes  the  body  of  water  into  wine,  in  order  to  show  us 
that  the  Old  Testament,  figured  by  the  water,  was  also  His 
work.  But  the  Old  Testament  Scriptures,  though  from  the 
Lord,  are  tasteless  until  Jesus  Christ  be  recognised  therein. 

V.  Let  us  return  to  the  lesson  indicated  by  the  words 
of  our  Redeemer:  All  things  which  are  written  in  the  law 
of  Moses ,  and  in  the  prophets ,  and  in  the  psalms ,  concerning 
Me.  You  know  that  the  law  began  with  the  world,  when 
God  created  heaven  and  earth.  And  since  that  beginning 
until  the  century  in  which  we  live,  six  different  ages  or 
epochs  are  counted.  The  first  began  with  Adam,  and 
lasted  until  Noah  ;  the  second  extended  from  Noah  to 
Abraham — its  order  and  succession  are  given  by  St. 
Matthew  in  his  Gospel ;  the  third  from  Abraham  to 
David  ;  the  fourth  from  David  to  the  time  when  the  Jews 
were  taken  captive  to  Babylon ;  the  fifth  from  the 
captivity  of  Babylon  to  St.  John  the  Baptist ;  and  the 
sixth,  which  began  with  St.  John  the  Baptist,  will  last 


THIRD  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY  65 

until  the  end  of  the  world.  In  order  to  mark  these  six 
ages,  God  created  man  on  the  sixth  day,  and  to  His 
image  and  likeness.  By  this  sixth  day,  on  which  God 
made  man  out  of  nothing,  the  Lord  wished  to  indicate 
the  sixth  epoch  of  the  world  in  which  He  came  to  restore 
the  soul  of  man  disfigured  by  sin,  and  to  give  back  to  it 
that  likeness  to  God  which  it  had  received  at  the  Creation. 
Jesus  also  changed  water  into  wine,  to  teach  us  by  this 
miracle  to  find  real  delight  in  the  law  and  the  prophets, 
who  formerly  seemed  tasteless,  for  He  revealed  and 
manifested  them  to  the  world.  Lastly,  the  six  water- 
pots  that  He  had  filled,  are  a  figure  of  the  six  ages  of 
the  world,  which  were  not  without  their  water  of  the 
prophecies.  For  these  ages  were  like  the  vessels  that 
would  have  remained  empty,  had  not  Jesus  Christ  filled 
them,  thus  teaching  us  that  these  epochs  would  have  been 
useless,  had  not  Jesus  been  announced  to  the  world. 
They  were,  indeed,  filled  by  the  fulfilment  of  the 
prophecies ;  but  the  knowledge  of  Jesus  is  required  to 
penetrate  their  incomparable  meaning. 


THIRD  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY. 

Gospel:  Matt.  viii.  1-13.  At  that  time:  When  Jesus 
was  come  down  from  the  mountain,  great  multitudes 
followed  Him.  And  behold  a  leper  came  and  adored 
Him,  saying  :  Lord,  if  Thou  wilt,  Thou  canst  make  me 
clean.  And  Jesus,  stretching  forth  His  hand,  touched 
him,  saying  :  I  will ;  be  thou  made  clean.  And  forthwith 
his  leprosy  was  cleansed.  And  Jesus  saith  to  him :  See 
thou  tell  no  man,  but  go,  show  thyself  to  the  priest,  and 
oifer  the  gift  which  Moses  commanded  for  a  testimony 
unto  them.  And  when  He  had  entered  into  Capharnaum, 

5 


66 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


there  came  to  Him  a  centurion,  beseeching  Him  and 
saying :  Lord,  my  servant  lieth  at  home  sick  of  the  palsy, 
and  is  grievously  tormented.  And  Jesus  saith  to  him  :  I 
will  come  and  heal  him.  And  the  centurion  making 
answer  said :  Lord,  I  am  not  worthy  that  Thou  shouldst 
enter  under  my  roof ;  but  only  say  the  word  and  my 
servant  shall  be  healed.  For  I  also  am  a  man  subject  to 
authority,  having  under  me  soldiers,  and  I  say  to  this,  Go, 
and  he  goeth  ;  and  to  another,  Come,  and  he  cometh  ; 
and  to  my  servant,  Do  this,  and  he  doeth  it.  And  when 
Jesus  heard  this,  He  marvelled,  and  said  to  them  that 
followed  Him  :  Amen,  I  say  to  you,  I  have  not  found  so 
great  faith  in  Israel.  And  I  say  to  you  that  many  shall 
come  from  the  east  and  the  west,  and  shall  sit  down  with 
Abraham  and  Isaac  and  Jacob,  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven ; 
but  the  children  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  cast  out  into  the 
exterior  darkness :  there  shall  be  weeping  and  gnashing  of 
teeth.  And  Jesus  said  to  the  centurion:  Go,  and  as  thou 
hast  believed,  so  be  it  done  to  thee.  And  the  servant 
was  healed  at  the  same  hour. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  JEROME,  PRIEST. 

Commentary  on  Matt,  viii.,  Bk.  i. 

I.  When  J esus  came  down  from  the  mountain,  great  multitudes 
followed  Him .  They  had  not  been  able  to  follow  Him 
when  He  went  up.  And  the  first  who  now  came  was  a 
leper.  The  disease  of  this  poor  creature  had  prevented 
him  from  hearing  the  Saviour’s  long  sermon  on  the 
mount.  Let  it  be  noticed  that  he  is  the  first  person 
specially  named  as  being  cured.  The  second  was  the 
centurion’s  servant ;  the  third,  St.  Peter’s  mother-in-law, 
who  was  sick  of  a  fever  at  Capharnaum ;  the  fourth  were 
those  brought  to  Christ  as  being  troubled  with  evil 


THIRD  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY 


67 


spirits.  By  His  word  He  cast  out  those  evil  spirits, 
and  at  the  same  time  healed  all  them  that  were 
sick.  And  behold  a  leper  came  and  adored  Him.  Properly 
after  preaching  and  doctrine  comes  the  occasion  for  a 
miracle,  that  the  power  of  the  sign  might  confirm  in  the 
hearers  the  truth  of  the  teaching  that  had  gone  before. 

II.  And  the  leper  said  :  Lord ,  if  Thou  wilt ,  Thou  canst 
make  me  clean .  The  leper  prayed  the  Lord  to  have  the 
will,  for  he  doubted  not  but  that  He  had  the  power.  And 
Jesus ,  stretching  forth  His  hand ,  touched  him ,  saying  :  I  will ; 
be  thou  made  clean.  And  as  soon  as  the  Lord  put  forth 
His  hand  the  leprosy  departed.  Let  us  remark  how 
humble  and  unboasting  is  the  Lord’s  language.  The 
leper  had  said,  If  .thou  wilt ;  the  Lord  answered,  I  will . 
The  leper,  Thou  canst  make  me  clean;  and  the  Lord,  Be  thou 
made  clean.  Most  Latin  readers,  misled  by  the  identity  of 
form  in  that  language,  read  Christ’s  answer  as  if  it  were : 
I  will  to  make  thee  clean .  This  is  wrong,  for  the  sentences 
are  separate.  First  comes  the  expression  of  volition,  I 
willy  then  the  command,  Be  thou  made  clean .  And  Jesus 
saith  to  him:  See  thou  tell  no  man.  Was  there  any  need  to 
tell  what  his  body  showed  ?  But  go9  show  thyself  to  the  priest. 
There  were  divers  reasons  why  Christ  should  send  him  to 
the  priest.  First  for  humility’s  sake,  that  he  might  show 
reverence  to  God’s  priest.  Then  there  was  a  command  of 
the  law  that  they,  who  were  cleansed  from  leprosy,  should 
make  an  offering  to  the  priests.  Moreover,  that  when 
the  priests  saw  the  leper  cleansed,  they  might  either 
believe  in  the  Saviour  or  refuse  to  believe  ;  if  they 
believed,  that  they  might  be  saved,  and  if  they  believed 
not,  that  they  might  have  no  excuse.  Lastly,  that  He 
might  give  no  ground  for  the  accusation  too  often  brought 
against  Him,  that  He  was  unobservant  of  the  Law. 
ill.  Then  the  -centurion  came  to  Jesus,  beseeching 

5—2 


68 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


Him  and  saying  :  Lord,  my  servant  lieth  at  home  sick  of  the 
palsy,  and  is  grievously  tormented .  And  Jesus  saith  to  him: 
1  will  come  and  heal  him .  And  the  centurion  making 
answer,  said  :  Lord ,  I  am  not  worthy  that  Thou  shouldst 
enter  under  my  roof ;  hut  only  say  the  word ,  and  my  servant 
shall  be  healed.  No  one  could  accuse  our  Lord  of  an 
inordinate  desire  after  honour,  because  He  promised  the 
centurion  that  He  would  go  at  once  and  heal  the  servant. 
It  was  on  account  of  the  faith,  humility,  and  modesty 
which  He  saw  in  the  centurion,  that  He  at  once  and 
most  generously  granted  his  request.  The  centurion 
showed  his  faith  in  believing  that  He  could  heal  a  man 
sick  of  the  palsy,  who  was  still  an  unbeliever.  He 
showed  his  humility,  thinking  himself  unworthy  to 
receive  Jesus  into  his  house;  and  his  modesty  was 
shown  by  his  recognising  the  Divinity  of  Jesus  hidden 
under  the  veil  of  His  humanity.  This  centurion  knew 
that  it  would  be  useless  for  him  to  follow  the  example 
of  unbelievers,  and  to  accept  as  true  only  what  he  could 
see  with  his  bodily  eyes,  if  he  did  not  at  the  same  time 
believe  in  the  Divinity  of  Jesus,  that  he  could  not  see. 
This  prudence  made  him  say :  I  also  am  a  man  subject  to 
authority,  having  under  me  soldiers  ;  and  I  say  to  this ,  Go, 
and  he  goeth  ;  and  to  another ,  Come,  and  he  cometh ;  and  to  my 
servant ,  Do  this ,  and  he  doeth  it.  By  these  words  he 
wished  to  express  his  belief  that  Jesus  could  convey 
His  intentions  to  His  angels,  and  through  them  perform 
whatsoever  He  would  deign  to  fulfil  Himself. 

IV.  When  Jesus  heard  this  He  marvelled,  and  said 
to  them  that  followed  Him:  Amen,  I  say  to  you,  I 
have  not  found  so  great  faith  in  Israel.  Jesus  marvelled, 
because  the  centurion  recognised  the  majesty  of  the 
Son  of  God  made  man,  and  His  power  to  heal  the  sick, 
and  to  deliver  the  possessed  from  the  influence  of  the 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY 


69 


devil,  either  through  His  word  only,  or  through  the 
agency  of  His  angels.  He  praised  the  centurion’s  faith 
as  being  greater  than  that  of  the  Jews,  His  contem¬ 
poraries,  but  did  not  speak  of  the  patriarchs  and  prophets 
who  had  lived  before  Him.  Under  the  figure  of  the 
centurion  He  wished  perhaps  to  indicate  the  Gentiles, 
whose  faith  surpassed  that  of  the  children  of  Israel.  I 
say  to  you ,  He  added,  that  many  shall  come  from  the  east 
and  the  west ,  and  shall  sit  down  with  A  braham  and  Isaac  and 
Jacob  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven .  Since  the  God  of  Abraham 
is  the  Creator  of  heaven,  and  the  Father  of  Jesus  Christ, 
it  follows  that  Abraham  and  all  the  nations  which  with 
him  believe  in  Jesus,  the  Son  of  the  Creator,  will  sit  in 
the  kingdom  of  heaven.  In  this  also  is  contained  the 
meaning  of  what  we  have  said,  namely,  that  the  faith 
of  the  centurion  represented  the  Gentiles,  who  would 
believe  with  him  were  the  Gospel  preached  to  those 
who  dwell  in  the  east  and  the  west.  But  the  children  of 
the  kingdom  shall  be  cast  out  into  the  exterior  darkness .  The 
Jews,  who,  until  the  conversion  of  the  Gentiles,  had  God 
for  their  King,  were  the  children  of  the  kingdom.  Their 
darkness  was  interior  ;  yet  we  may  say  that,  since  they 
left  the  true  Light  and  were  rejected  by  God,  they  were 
also  surrounded  by  exterior  darkness. 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY. 

Gospel:  Matt.  viii.  23-27.  At  that  time:  When  Jesus 
entered  into  a  ship  His  disciples  followed  Him,-  and 
behold  a  great  tempest  arose  in  the  sea,  so  that  the  ship 
was  covered  with  waves ;  but  He  was  asleep.  And  His 
disciples  came  to  Him,  and  awakened  Him,  saying : 
Lord,  save  us;  we  perish.  And  Jesus  saith  to  them: 


7o 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


Why  are  you  fearful,  O  ye  of  little  faith  ?  Then  rising 
up,  He  commanded  the  winds  and  the  sea,  and  there 
came  a  great  calm.  But  the  men  wondered,  saying : 
What  manner  of  man  is  this  ?  for  the  winds  and  the  sea 
obey  Him. 

I.  HOMILY  BY  ST.  JEROME,  PRIEST. 

Commentary  on  Matt,  viii.,  Bx.  i. 

I.  Our  Lord  worked  the  fifth  miracle  when  He  took 
ship  at  Capharnaum,  and  commanded  the  winds  and 
the  sea  ;  the  sixth,  when,  in  the  country  of  the  Gerasens, 
He  suffered  the  devils  to  enter  into  the  swine ;  the 
seventh,  when,  coming  into  His  own  city,  He  cured  the 
man  sick  of  the  palsy  lying  on  a  bed.  The  first  man 
sick  of  the  palsy,  whom  He  cured,  was  the  centurion’s 
servant.  But  He  was  asleep ,  and  His  disciples  came  to  Him , 
and  awakened  Him ,  saying:  Lord,  save  us;  we  perish .  A 
type  of  this  is  found  in  the  history  of  Jonas,  who  was 
fast  asleep  when  the  storm  arose,  and  whom  the  sailors 
woke  up  to  help  them.  He  saved  the  sailors  by  com¬ 
manding  them  to  throw  him  into  the  sea ;  this  casting 
of  Jonas  into  the  sea  being,  as  we  know,  a  figure  of 
Christ’s  Passion. 

II.  Then ,  rising  upy  He  commanded  the  winds  and  the  sea . 
The  words  give  us  to  understand  that  all  things,  which 
have  been  made,  recognise  their  Master;  all  things,  which 
He  rebukes  or  commands,  hear  His  voice.  This  is  not 
the  error  of  the  heretics,  who  pretend  that  everything  is 
alive,  but  part  of  the  majesty  of  the  Creator,  Who  makes 
things  to  feel  Him,  which  we  cannot  make  to  feel  us. 
But  the  men  wondered ,  saying  :  What  manner  of  man  is  this  ? 
for  the  winds  and  the  sea  obey  Him .  It  was  not  His 
disciples  who  wondered,  but  the  sailors  and  others  who 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY 


7i 


were  in  the  ship.  If,  however,  anyone  be  willing  to 
oppose  this  our  interpretation,  and  to  maintain  that  it 
was  the  disciples  who  wondered,  we  answer  that  those 
who  knew  not  before  the  power  of  the  Saviour  deserve 
to  be  stripped  of  the  title  of  disciples,  and  to  be  called 
simply  the  men. 

II.  HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Commentary  on  Psalm  xxv. 

* 

This  ship,  in  which  Jesus  was  asleep,  and  which  was 
on  the  point  of  being  swallowed  up  by  the  waves,  is  a 
figure  of  the  dangers  threatening  man’s  life,  compared  to 
a  sea  continually  agitated  by  winds  and  storms.  The 
waves  rising  in  the  sea  are  the  daily  temptations  of  our 
life,  assailing  our  fragile  ship  and  threatening  it  with 
dismal  wreck  and  destruction.  And  whence  comes  such 
impending  danger,  but  because  Jesus  is  asleep  ?  Were 
not  Jesus  asleep  within  you,  you  would  not  be  exposed  to 
all  these  storms ;  but  interior  peace  and  perfect  calm 
would  be  your  happy  lot,  through  Jesus  watching  with 
you.  For  what  is  the  meaning  of  Jesus  is  asleep  ?  Your 
faith  in  Jesus  has  fallen  asleep.  The  tempests  of  the  sea 
arise ;  you  see  evil  men  flourishing,  good  and  just  men  in 
trouble  and  misery ;  your  faith  is  shaken  and  tossed  about 
as  by  furious  waves.  And  in  this  temptation  your  soul 
says  :  1  Is  this  Thy  justice,  O  God,  that  the  wicked  should 
flourish,  whilst  the  just  are  in  trouble  and  misery  ?’  You 
say  to  God :  1  Is  this  Thy  justice  ?’  And  God  says  to 
you :  i  Is  this  your  faith  ?  Have  I  promised  you  the 
perishable  things  of  the  world  ?  Have  I  called  you  to 
be  My  followers,  that  is,  Christians,  that  you  should 
flourish  in  this  life  ?  Are  you  grieving  because  you  see 
the  wicked  enjoying  all  earthly  pleasures,  who  shall  here- 


72 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


after  be  tormented  with  the  devil  ?  But  why  all  these 
complaints  ?  Why  are  you  disturbed  by  the  waves  of 
the  sea  and  the  storm  ?*  Because  Jesus  is  asleep  ;  that 
is,  because  your  faith  in  Jesus  has  been  laid  asleep  in 
your  hearts.  How  will  you  be  delivered  from  this  great 
danger  ?  Awaken  Jesus,  and  say  to  Him  :  Lord ,  save  us, 
we  perish ;  the  waves  of  temptation  rise  against  us  and 
threaten  our  souls  with  impending  death.  And  Jesus 
will  awake,  that  is,  your  faith  will  return  to  you.  And 
with  His  help  you  will  recognise  that  the  happiness 
the  wicked  enjoy  will  not  abide  with  them.  For,  either 
it  will  be  taken  from  them  while  they  live,  or  they  will 
be  forced  to  leave  it  when  they  die.  But  the  happiness 
promised  to  you  will  abide  for  ever  and  ever.  What  is 
granted  to  the  wicked  for  a  time,  will  soon  be  taken 
away  ;  for  they  flourish  like  the  flower  of  the  grass.  All 
flesh  is  as  grass  ;  the  grass  is  withered ,  and  the  flower  thereof  is 
fallen  away ;  but  the  word  of  the  Lord  endureth  for  ever 
(i  Pet.  i.  24,  25).  Turn,  therefore,  your  back  upon  that 
which  falls  and  is  perishable,  and  your  face  to  that  which 
abides  to  the  end.  Now  that  Jesus  is  awake,  the  storm 
shall  no  more  shake  your  hearts,  the  waves  shall  not  fill 
your  barque.  Your  faith  commands  the  winds  and  the 
waves,  and  the  danger  shall  pass  away,  when  a  great 
calm  will  follow  the  storm.  To  all  this,  beloved  brethren, 
belongs-what  the  Apostle  says  about  putting  off  the  old  man . 
Be  angry  and  sin  not .  Let  not  the  sun  go  down  upon  your  anger . 
Give  not  place  to  the  devil  (Eph.  iv.  26,  27).  The  old  man 
did  give  place ;  let  not  the  new  man  do  the  same.  He  that 
stole ,  let  him  now  steal  no  more  (ver.  28).  The  old  man,* 
then,  did  steal ;  not  so  the  new.  It  is  the  same  man,  ft 
is  one  man.  It  was  Adam,  let  it  be  Christ ;  it  was  the 
old  man,  let  it  be  the  new  man. 


FIFTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY 


73 


FIFTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY. 

Gospel:  Matt.  xiii.  24-30.  At  that  time:  Jesus  spoke 
this  parable  to  the  multitude,  saying :  The  kingdom  of 
heaven  is  likened  to  a  man  that  sowed  good  seed  in  his 
field.  But  while  men  were  asleep  his  enemy  came  and 
oversowed  cockle  among  the  wheat,  and  went  his  way. 
And  when  the  blade  was  sprung  up,  and  brought  forth 
fruit,  then  appeared  also  the  cockle.  Then  the  servants 
of  the  good  man  of  the  house  came  and  said  to  him  : 
Sir,  didst  thou  not  sow  good  seed  in  thy  field  ?  From 
whence,  then,  hath  it  cockle  ?  And  he  said  to  them  :  An 
enemy  hath  done  this.  And  the  servants  said  to  him : 
Wilt  thou  that  we  go  and  gather  it  up  ?  And  he  said : 
No,  lest  while  you  gather  up  the  cockle,  you  root  up  the 
wheat  also  together  with  it.  Let  both  grow  until  the 
harvest,  and  in  the  time  of  the  harvest  I  will  say  to  the 
reapers  :  Gather  up  first  the  cockle,  and  bind  it  in  bundles 
to  burn,  but  gather  the  wheat  into  my  barn. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Eighty-Eighth  Discourse  on  the  Words  of  the  Gospel. 

‘  I.  You  will  easily  understand,  beloved  brethen,  the 
hidden  meaning  of  this  Gospel,  when  you  remember 
what  we  said  about  some  other  words  of  Holy  Scripture 
comparing  the  just  and  the  wicked  in  the  Church  of  God 
to  the  wheat  and  the  cockle.  By  this  figure  we  are 
taught  that  the  threshing-floor  is  not  to  be  left  before  the 
time  of  the  harvest,  that  the  cockle  may  not  be  taken 
away  without  being  separated  from  the  wheat ;  for  the 
floor  would  be  deprived  of  its  due,  and  the  wheat  thus 
taken  off  could  not  be  preserved  in  the  barn.  A  time 
will  arrive  when  the  Householder  Himself  will  come 


74 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


with  the  fan  in  His  hand,  and  separate  the  just  from  the 
wicked.  There  will  be,  in  regard  to  the  soul  and  in 
regard  to  the  body,  a  separation  of  the  just  and  the 
wicked  ;  for,  with  your  hearts  and  dispositions  you  must 
be  separated  from  the  wicked,  though  in  a  spirit  of 
humility  you  are  for  a  time  associated  with  them  by  the 
bonds  of  the  body.  Let  not  this  connection  make  you 
careless,  for  it  is  your  duty  to  endeavour  in  every  way  to 
correct  and  convert  those  entrusted  to  your  care,  now 
teaching,  then  advising,  or  even  threatening  them  as  far 
as  you  are  obliged  or  able  to  do  so.  Do  not  excuse  your 
carelessness  respecting  this  duty  by  quoting  examples 
taken  from  the  Old  and  New  Testaments,  or  the  lives  of 
the  saints,  and  thus  endeavouring  to  show  that,  though 
living  among  the  godless,  they  preserved  their  souls  stain¬ 
less.  My  answer  will  be :  That  these  servants  of  God 
did  not  agree  with  the  wickedness  of  sinners,  but  punished 
them.  It  is  quite  true  that  there  can  be  no  intimacy 
between  ourselves  and  others  as  long  as  we  are  opposed 
to  their  opinions  ;  but  when  we  approve  of  the  doings  of 
the  wicked  and  agree  with  them  in  their  sinfulness,  then 
we  enter  into  mutual  fellowship,  forbidden  by  the  Apostle, 
who  says  :  Have  no  fellowship  with  the  unfruitful  works  of 
darkness  (Eph.  v.  n).  However,  since  to  refuse  our  con¬ 
sent  to  evil  would  not  be  enough,  unless  we  apply  the 
necessary  remedies  to  cure  it,  the  Apostle  adds  :  But 
rather  reprove  them  (ibid.),  giving  us  to  understand  that 
these  two  things  must  be  united,  namely,  not  to  have  any 
communication  with  sinners,  and  also  to  punish  them. 
The  first  is  observed,  when  the  sinful  act  is  neither  praised 
nor  approved  of,  nor  consented  to ;  and  the  second,  when 
the  sinner  is  reproved,  punished,  and  prevented  from 
doing  wrong  again. 

II.  However,  when  we  reprove  and  punish  sinners,  let 


FIFTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY 


75 


us  not  be  puffed  up  on  account  of  our  own  virtue ;  let  us 
remember  the  words  of  the  Apostle :  He  that  thinketh  him¬ 
self  to  stand ,  let  him  take  heed  lest  he  fall  (i  Cor.  x.  12). 
When  you  prevent  others  from  committing  sin,  or  fear¬ 
lessly  punish  them,  do  not  forget  to  make  use  of  kindness 
and  love  at  the  same  time,  again  remembering  the  teach¬ 
ing  of  the  great  Apostle  :  If  a  man  he  overtaken  by  any  faulty 
you,  who  are  spiritual ,  instruct  such  a  one  in  the  spirit  of  meek¬ 
ness,  considering  thyself,  lest  thou  also  be  tempted .  Bear  ye 
one  another's  burdens  ;  and  so  you  shall  fulfil  the  law  of  Christ 
(Gal.  vi.  1,2).  And  in  another  epistle  the  same  Apostle 
says  :  The  servant  of  the  Lord  must  not  wrangle,  but  be  mild 
towards  all  men  ;  apt  to  teach ,  patient  with  modesty  ;  admonish¬ 
ing  them  that  resist  the  truth,  if  peradventure  God  may  give 
them  repentance  to  know  the  truth,  and  they  may  recover  them¬ 
selves  from  the  snare  of  the  devil,  by  whom  they  are  held  captive 
at  his  will  (2  Tim.  ii.  24,  et  seq.).  We  conclude  from  all 
this  that  we  must  neither  flatter  nor  praise  the  wicked, 
and  that,  when  punishing  them,  we  must  be  neither  care¬ 
less  nor  haughty,  nor  by  proud  and  injudicious  reproaches 
treat  them  with  contempt. 

III.  He  that  forsakes  the  unity,  that  is,  the  union  of 
the  Christians  belonging  to  the  true  Church,  will  infallibly 
suffer  the  loss  of  charity.  And  if  he  lose  that  virtue,  he 
is  nothing,  even  should  he  possess  all  other  virtues  in  the 
highest  degree.  The  great  Apostle  says  :  If  I  speak  the 
tongues  of  men  and  angels ,  and  have  not  charity,  I  am  become 
like  a  sounding  brass  and  a  tinkling  cymbal .  And  if  I  should 
have  prophecy ,  and  should  know  all  mysteries,  and  all  knowledge, 
and  if  I  should  have  all  faith,  so  that  I  should  remove  mountains, 
and  have  not  charity,  I  am  nothing.  A  nd  if  I  should  distribute 
all  my  goods  to  feed  the  poor,  and  if  I  should  deliver  my  body  to 
be  burned,  and  have  not  charity,  it  pvofiteth  me  nothing  (1  Cor. 
xiii.  1-3).  Thus  will  it  be  with  the  Christian  who  has 


76 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


not  charity.  He  is  deprived  of  that  virtue  which  gives 
merits  to  all  others,  so  that  other  virtues  will  be  fruitless 
for  heaven  and  dead  before  God.  Let  us,  therefore, 
practise  charity,  and  '  take  great  care  to  preserve  the 
union  of  minds  through  the  bond  of  peace.  Let  us  not 
be  deceived  by  the  words  of  those  who,  being  carnal, 
have  left  the  communion  of  the  faithful,  and  are  thus 
separated,  as  through  a  spiritual  sacrilege,  from  the  true 
wheat  of  the  Church  sown  all"  over  the  world.  This 
precious  seed  was  sown  in  the  world  by  the  good  Sower, 
the  Son  of  Man.  For  His  will  was  not  that  this  seed 
should  be  sown  only  in  some  countries,  like  Africa,*  in 
which  we  live,  but  among  all  nations.  The  cockle, 
springing  up  among  the  wheat,  was  the  work  of  the 
enemy ,  Yet  the  good  man  of  the  house  would  not  allow 
his  servants  to  gather  it  up,  but  told  them  to  let  both, 
the  wheat  and  the  cockle,  grow  until  the  harvest.  Now, 
where  is  the  good  seed  to  grow  up,  unless  in  the  field  in 
which  it  was  sown  ?  Is  Africa  this  special  field?  No. 
But  which  is  this  field  ?  The  words  of  our  Lord  are 
clear  and  explicit ;  for,  when  asked  by  His  disciples  to 
explain  the  parable,  He  said  :  The  field  is  the  world.  And 
the  good  seed  are  the  children  of  the  kingdom.  And  the  cockle 
are  the  children  of  the  wicked  one .  And  the  enemy  that  sowed 
them ,  is  the  devil .  But  the  harvest  is  the  end  of  the  world . 
And  the  reapers  are  the  angels  (Matt.  xiii.  38,  39).  After 
these  words  shall  we  believe,  according  to  heretics,  that 
the  field  spoken  of  is  not  the  world,  but  only  Africa  ? 
That  the  harvest  will  not  take  place  at  the  end  of  the 
world,  but  in  the  present  time,  and  that  Donatus,  the 

*  St.  Augustine  speaks  against  Donatus,  who,  coming  from  Numedia, 
was  preaching  his  heretical  doctrine  in  Africa.  The  great  Doctor  of 
the  Church  proves  that  neither  scandals  nor  bad  Christians  afford  a 
lawful  and  reasonable  motive  for  leaving  the  true  Church. 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY  77 

chief  of  the  heretics,  is  the  reaper  ?  Ah  !  far  from 
accepting  such  doctrines  against  the  teaching  of  Jesus 
Christ  Himself,  let  us  patiently  await  the  harvest  which 
will  take  place  in  the  whole  world.  We  let  the  good 
seed,  spread  out  in  the  world,  grow  up  until  the  time 
appointed  by  the  householder,  and  we  suffer  the  cockle, 
oversowed  among  the  good  seed  and  growing  up  every¬ 
where,  to  remain  until  the  time  of  the  harvest.  But  let 
us  take  heed,  lest  we  be  deceived  by  the  language  of 
these  wicked  men  who,  being  as  light  as  chaff,  will  be 
cast  out  of  the  barn,  even  before  the  Householder  comes 
to  separate  them.  The  application  of  this  parable  of  the 
cockle,  which  we  explained,  ought  to  be  sufficient  to 
convince  the  heretics  of  the  falsehood  of  their  conclusions. 
But  they  will,  perhaps,  say,  in  order  to  excuse  their 
errors  and  justify  their  conduct,'  that  the  Sacred  Books 
were  once  handed  over  to  the  pagans  by  some  Christians 
afraid  of  torments  and  tortures.  But  since  these  Christians 
being  unknowm,  cannot  be  discovered,  now  this  one  and 
then  another  is  accused  of  that  crime.  Yet,  whatever 
may  be  the  truth  about  these  Christians,  I  ask  whether 
their  infidelity  has  destroyed  the  Faith  which  comes  from 
God  ?  Is  it  not  the  same  Faith  that  God  once  promised 
Abraham,  saying  that  all  nations  should  be  blessed  in  his 
seed  ?  And  what  are  we  taught  by  this  Faith  ?  To  let 
both,  that  is,  the  good  seed  and  the  cockle,  the  just  and 
the  wicked,  grow  up  in  the  field  of  the  Church,  namely, 
the  world,  until  the  time  of  the  harvest,  the  end  of  the 
world. 

SIXTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY. 

Gospel:  Matt.  xiii.  31-35  At  that  time  :  Jesus  spoke  to 
the  multitude  this  parable  :  The  kingdom  of  heaven  is 


78 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS _ 


like  to  a  grain  of  mustard-seed,  which  a  man  took  and 
sowed  in  his  field.  Which,  indeed,  is  the  least  of  all 
seeds ;  but  when  it  is  grown  up  it  is  greater  than  all  herbs, 
and  becometh  a  tree,  so  that  the  birds  of  the  air  come 
and  dwell  in  the  branches  thereof.  Another  parable  He 
spoke  to  them  :  The  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like  to  leaven, 
which  a  woman  took  and  hid  in  three  measures  of  meal, 
until  the  whole  was  leavened.  All  these  things  Jesus 
spoke  in  parables  to  the  multitude,  and  without  parables 
He  did  not  speak  to  them  ;  that  the  word  might  be  fulfilled 
which  was  spoken  by  the  prophet,  saying  :  *  I  will  open 
My  mouth  in  parables,  I  will  utter  things  hidden  from  the 
foundation  of  the  world.’ 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  JEROME,  PRIEST. 

Commentary  on  Matt,  xiii.,  Bk.  ii. 

I.  The  kingdom  of  heaven,  here  spoken  of  by  our 
Lord,  is  the  propagation  of  the  Gospel  and  the  knowledge 
of  the  Scriptures,  which  are  the  way  leading  to  life.  Of 
this  kingdom  it  was  said  to  the  Jews :  The  kingdom  of 
God  shall  be  taken  from  you ,  and  shall  be  given  to  a  nation 
yielding  the  fruits  thereof  (Matt.  xxi.  43).  This  kingdom, 
therefore,  is  like  to  a  grain  of  mustard-seed,  which  a  man 
took  and  sowed  in  his  field.  Our  Saviour  is  understood 
by  many  to  be  that  man  who  sowed  the  seed  in  his  field, 
for  He  is  the  Sower  who  sows  in  the  souls  of  believers. 
Others  understand  every  man  who  sows  good  seed  in  his 
own  field,  that  is,  in  himself,  in  his  own  heart.  Now,  who 
is  he  that  sows,  but  our  own  mind  and  soul,  which  take 
the  good  grain  from  preaching,  and  by  nourishing  it  in  the 
soil,  cause  it  to  spring  up  in  the  field  of  our  own  heart  ? 
The  preaching  of  the  Gospel  is  the  beginning  of  all 
doctrines.  He  that  preaches,  for  his  first  lesson,  a  God 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY 


79 


made  man,  Christ’s  death,  and  the  stumbling-block  of 
the  Cross,  receives  at  first  but  little  credit.  Compare 
such  teaching  as  this  with  the  doctrines  of  philosophers, 
with  their  books,  their  splendid  eloquence  and  their 
rounded  sentences,  and  you  will  see  that  the  grain  of  the 
Gospel,  when  it  is  sown,  is  the  humblest  of  all  seeds.  But 
when  the  doctrines  of  men  grow  up,  there  is  nothing 
piercing,  nothing  healthy,  nothing  life-giving  therein ; 
the  plant  is  drooping,  weak  and  withered.  There  are 
herbs  and  grass  of  which  it  may  truly  be  said  that  the 
grass  is  withered  and  the  flower  is  fallen  (Isa.  xl.  8).  But  the 
grain  of  the  Gospel-seed,  though,  when  it  is  sown,  seems 
to  be  the  least  of  all  seeds,  when  once  it  is  rooted  in  the 
soul  of  man  or  in  the  whole  world,  grows,  not  into  a 
herb,  but  becomes  a  tree,  so  that  the  birds  of  the  air — 
whereby  we  may  understand  either  the  souls  of  the 
believers  or  the  powers  bound  to  the  service  of  God — 
come  and  dwell  in  the  branches  thereof.  I  consider  that 
the  branches  of  the  Gospel-tree,  growing  from  the  grain 
of  the  mustard-seed,  are  the  divers  developments  of 
doctrine,  on  which  the  mysterious  birds  mentioned  above 
find  resting-places.  Our  duty,  therefore,  is  to  take  the 
wings  of  the  dove  and,  in  a  quick  flight,  to  soar  up  to  the 
most  sublime  things,  so  that  we  may  make  our  dwelling 
in  the  branches  of  this  mysterious  tree,  where  we  shall 
rest  in  the  shadow  of  the  doctrine  of  salvation,  be 
separated  from  earthly  things,  and  thus  be  nearer  to 
heaven.  There  are  many  who,  reading  in  the  Gospel 
that  the  mustard-seed  is  the  least  of  all  seeds,  heard  that 
the  disciples  said  to  their  Master  :  Lord>  increase  our  faith  ; 
and  that  He  answered :  If  you  have  faith  as  n  grain  of 
?nustard-seed,you  shall  say  to  this  mountain:  Remove  from  hence , 
and  it  shall  remove ,  and  nothing  shall  be  impossible  to  you 
(Matt.  xvii.  19).  Such  people  imagine  that  the  Apostles 


8o 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


asked  for  a  little  faith  only,  or  that  our  Lord  doubted 
their  faith.  But  if  they  considered  the  words  of  St.  Paul, 
they  would  recognise  that  the  faith,  compared  by  our 
Saviour  with  a  grain  of  mustard-seed,  was  in  His  eyes  a 
very  great  faith  ;  for  the  Apostle  says  :  If  I  should  have  all 
faith ,  so  that  I  could  remove  mountains ,  and  have  not  charity ,  I  am 
nothing  (i  Cor.  xiii.  2).  Thus  we  are  taught  that,  what 
we  can  do  with  faith  like  a  grain  of  mustard-seed,  accord¬ 
ing  to  our  Lord,  is  done,  as  St.  Paul  explains,  with  the 
most  perfect  faith. 

II.  And  our  Lord  spoke  another  parable  to  the  multi¬ 
tude  :  The  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like  to  leaven ,  which  a  woman 
took  and  hid  in  three  measures  of  meal ,  until  the  whole  was 
leavened .  Jesus,  to  accommodate  Himself  to  the  different 
classes  of  His  hearers,  made  use  of  different  parables,  all 
meant  to  be  the  means  for  curing  divers  spiritual  ail¬ 
ments.  The  woman,  who  in  the  parable  takes  the  leaven, 
seems  to  me  to  signify  the  preaching  of  the  Apostles,  or 
the  Church  formed  of  different  nations.  The  leaven 
taken  by  the  woman  means  the  knowledge  of  the  Holy 
Scriptures  ;  whereas  the  three  measures  of  meal,  in  which 
the  leaven  is  hidden,  represent  our  intellect,  soul  and  body, 
united  in  perfect  agreement  and  harmony.  They  are  like 
two  or  three  persons  gathered  together  in  prayer,  and 
receiving  from  the  Heavenly  Father  whatsoever  they  ask 
for.  Yet,  another  meaning  may  also  be  found  in  these 
words  of  the  parable.  We  read  in  the  writings  of  Plato 
— and  this  is  the  general  opinion  of  philosophers, — that 
there  are  in  our  soul  three  passions  called  the  reason¬ 
able ,  the  irascible  and  the  concupiscent .  The  same  pagan 
philosopher  also  speaks  of  the  different  parts  of  our  body 
wherein  each  passion  resides.  Take,  therefore,  the  leaven 
mentioned  in  the  Gospel,  that  is,  the  wisdom  of  Holy 
Scripture,  and  you  will  keep  these  passions  in  check  ;  you 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EPIPHANY  81 

will  even  make  them  serve  as  means  to  attain  your 
desired  object,  that  is,  reason  will  help  you  to  practise 
prudence,  anger  will  inspire  you  with  hatred  against  sin, 
and  concupiscence  will  give  you  a  longing  for  Christian 
virtues.  And  you  will  succeed  in  all  this  through  the 
doctrine  given  to  us  by  the  true  Church  of  Christ. 

III.  I  will  also  mention  some  opinions  held  by  different 
learned  men  concerning  this  parable,  so  that  the  reader 
may  accept  what  pleases  him  best.  Some  think  that 
the  woman  of  the  Gospel  is  the  figure  of  the  Church 
founding  the  belief  of  the  faithful  upon  the  doctrine  of 
the  three  Divine  Persons,  the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the 
Holy  Ghost,  represented  under  the  image  of  the  three 
measures  of  meal.  These,  they  say,  are  of  the  same 
substance,  and  consequently  speak  to  us  of  the  same 
Divine  Nature  of  the  three  Persons,  being  one  and  the 
same  God.  However,  this  is  only  a  pious  opinion  which, 
like  other  comparisons,  cannot  be  used  to  prove  the 
fundamental  truths  of  our  holy  religion,  revealed  to  us 
by  an  infallible  Authority.  Other  interpretations  of  the 
words  of  this  parable  cannot  be  mentioned  here  without 
going  beyond  the  limits  assigned  to  this  commentary. 

IV.  All  these  things  Jesus  spoke  in  parables,  says  the  Gospel, 
to  the  multitude ,  not  to  the  Apostles.  The  same  language 
is  even  now  used  by  zealous  preachers  addressing  large 
assemblies ;  but  the  disciples  wished  to  learn  from  the 
very  source,  that  is,  from  the  Master  Himself,  the  true 
doctrine  which  they  w^ere  to  preach  to  others.  Again 
the  Gospel  says :  That  the  word  might  be  fulfilled  which 
was  spoken  by  the  prophets ,  saying  :  I  will  open  my  mouth 
in  parables ,  I  will  utter  things  hidden  from  the  foundation  of 
the  world  (Ps.  lxxvii.  2).  The  prophet,  relating  the  events 
that  took  place  at  the  departure  of  the  Israelites  from 
Egypt,  and  the  miracles  wrought  by  God  in  their  favour, 

6 


82 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


announces  that  all  these  things  are  not  to  be  taken  in  a 
literal  sense,  for  they  contain  comparisons  and  hidden 
mysteries  which  will  one  day  be  explained  by  the  Saviour 
of  the  world  Himself. 

SEPTUAGESIMA  SUNDAY. 

Gospel:  Matt.  xx.  1-16.  At  that  time:  Jesus  spoke  to 
His  disciples  this  parable  :  The  kingdom  of  heaven  is 
like  to  a  householder  who  went  out  early  in  the  morning 
to  hire  labourers  into  his  vineyard.  And  having  agreed 
with  the  labourers  for  a  penny  a  day,  he  sent  them  into 
his  vineyard.  And  going  out  about  the  third  hour,  he 
saw  others  standing  in  the  market-place  idle.  And  he 
said  to  them  :  Go  you  also  into  my  vineyard,  and  I  will 
give  you  what  shall  be  just.  And  they  went  their  way. 
And  again  he  went  out  about  the  sixth  and  the  ninth 
hour,  and  did  in  like  manner.  But  about  the  eleventh 
hour  he  went  out  and  found  others  standing,  and  he 
saith  to  them :  Why  stand  you  here  all  the  day  idle  ? 
They  say  to  him :  Because  no  man  hath  hired  us.  He 
saith  to  them  :  Go  you  also  into  my  vineyard.  And 
when  evening  was  come,  the  lord  of  the  vineyard  said 
to  his  steward :  Call  the  labourers,  and  pay  them  their 
hire,  beginning  from  the  last  even  to  the  first.  When, 
therefore,  they  were  come  that  came  about  the  eleventh 
hour,  they  received  every  man  a  penny.  But  when  the 
first  also  came,  they  thought  that  they  should  have 
received  more ;  and  they  also  received  every  man  a 
penny.  And  receiving  it,  they  murmured  against  the 
master  of  the  house,  saying  :  These  last  have  worked 
but  one  hour,  and  thou  hast  made  them  equal  to  us  that 
have  borne  the  burden  of  the  day  and  the  heats.  But 
he  answering,  said  to  one  of  them :  Friend,  I  do  thee  no 


SEPTUAGESIMA  SUNDAY 


S3 

wrong  ;  didst  thou  not  agree  with  me  for  a  penny?  Take 
what  is  thine,  and  go  thy  way.  I  will  also  give  to  this 
last  even  as  to  thee.  Or,  is  it  not  lawful  for  me  to  do 
what  I  will  ?  Is  thy  eye  evil  because  I  am  good  ?  So 
shall  the  last  be  the  first,  and  the  first  last.  For  many 
are  called,  but  few  chosen. 

HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST,  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
CHURCH  OF  ST.  LAWRENCE  ON  SEPTUAGESIMA 
SUNDAY. 

Nineteenth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  This  Gospel  containing  many  things  which  need 
explaining,  I  will  try  as  far  as  possible  to  shorten  my 
explanation,  that  it  may  not  become  tedious  to  you. 
The  kingdom  of  heaven^  so.we  are  told  by  our  Lord,  is  like 
to  a  householder,  who  went  out  early  in  the  morning  to  hire 
labourers  into  his  vineyard .  Who,  indeed,  is  more  justly 
to  be  likened  to  a  householder  than  our  Creator,  Who  is 
the  Head  of  the  household  of  faith,  ruling  over  those  He 
has  made,  and  being  Master  of  His  chosen  ones  in  the 
world,  as  a  master  of  those  in  his  house  ?  He  it  is  that 
has  the  Church  as  His  vineyard,  a  vineyard  that  ceases 
not  to  bring  forth  branches  of  the  true  Vine,  from  just 
Abel  to  the  last  of  the  elect  that  shall  be  born  in  the 
world.  This  householder,  then,  for  the  cultivation  of 
his  vineyard,  goes  out  early  in  the  morning,  and  at  the 
third  hour,  the  sixth,  the  ninth,  and  the  eleventh,  to  hire 
labourers  into  his  vineyard.  Thus  the  Lord,  from  the 
beginning  to  the  end  of  the  world,  never  ceases  to  gather 
together  preachers  for  the  instruction  of  His  faithful 
people.  The  early  morning  of  the  world  was  from  Adam 
until  Noah  ;  the  third  hour  from  Noah  until  Abraham  ; 
the  'sixth  from  Abraham  until  Moses  ;  the  ninth  from 

6—2 


84 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


Moses  until  the  coming  of  the  Lord  ;  the  eleventh  from 
the  coming  of  the  Lord  to  the  end  of  the  world.  At 
this  eleventh  hour  were  sent  forth  as  preachers  the 
Apostles,  who  received  full  wages,  though  they  came  in 
late.  For  the  cultivation  of  His  vineyard — that  is,  the 
instruction  of  His  people, — the  Lord  has  never  ceased  to 
send  labourers  into  it.  First  by  the  patriarchs,  then  by 
the  prophets  and  teachers  of  the  law,  and  lastly  by  the 
Apostles,  He  dressed  and  tended  the  lives  of  His  people, 
as  the  owner  of  a  vineyard  dresses  and  tends  it  by  means 
of  workmen.  Whoever,  in  whatever  degree,  joined  to  a 
right  faith  the  teaching  of  justice,  was  so  far  one  of 
God’s  labourers  in  God’s  vineyard.  By  the  labourers 
at  early  morning,  at  the  third,  the  sixth,  and  the  ninth 
hour,  may  be  understood  God’s  ancient  people,  the 
Hebrews,  who,  striving  to  worship  Him  with  a  right 
faith,  in  company  with  His  chosen  ones  from  the  begin¬ 
ning  of  the  world,  continually  laboured  in  His  vineyard. 
And  now,  at  the  eleventh  hour,  it  was  said  to  the 
Gentiles  :  Why  stand  you  here  all  the  day  idle  ?  The  Lord 
speaks  of  their  carelessness  and  indifference  concerning 
their  salvation,  for  they  had  not  yet  done  anything  to 
be  assured  of  it ;  yet,  if  you  ponder  upon  their  answer 
to  the  householder  sending  them  to  his  vineyard,  you 
will  have  cause  of  being  ashamed.  Their  answer  to  the 
householder’s  question,  why  they  stood  all  the  day  idle, 
was  :  Because  no  man  hath  hived  us.  Indeed,  they,  unlike 
others,  had  neither  patriarchs  nor  prophets  to  instruct 
them.  No  one  had  hired  them,  for  no  one  had  shown 
them  the  way  leading  to  salvation.  As  to  us,  who 
neglect  the  practice  of  good  works,  and  lead  an  idle  life, 
what  shall  we  answer  for  our  justification  ?  For  we 
received  the  true  faith,  so  to  speak,  in  the  womb  of  our 
mother  ;  we  heard  the  words  of  life  when  still  in  the 


SEPT  U  A  GESIMA  S  UN  DA  Y  85 

cradle,  and  we  drank  the  milk  of  Christian  doctrine, 
given  by  our  holy  Church  at  the  time  when,  for  the  life 
of  our  bodies,  we  were  sucking  the  breasts  of  our  natural 
mothers. 

II.  The  different  hours  of  the  parable  may  also  be 
compared  to  the  different  periods  of  man’s  life.  Child¬ 
hood,  on  account  of  the  small  sphere  of  knowledge,  is 
the  early  hour,  of  morning  ;  youth  may  be  compared  to 
the  third  hour,  when  the  sun  rises  and  the  heat  of  years 
increases ;  the  sixth  hour  represents  manhood,  the 
virility,  when  the  sun  has  reached  the  zenith  of  his 
course;  by  the  ninth  hour,  showing  the  sun  slowly 
retreating  from  his  height,  we  recognise  the  elderly  age 
of  man,  when  he  loses  the  strength  and  power  of  younger 
years  ;  whereas  old  age  is  figured  by  the  eleventh  hour. 
Now,  consider  how  some  are  called,  already  in  their 
childhood,  to  lead  a  perfect  and  holy  life  ;  others  in  their 
youth  ;  these  in  their  manly  age  ;  some  others  in  advanced 
years  ;  and  lastly  others  in  their  old  age.  Do  you  under¬ 
stand  that  all  of  us  are  labourers,  who  may  at  any  time 
be  sent  into  the  vineyard  of  the  Lord  ?  Again,  beloved 
brethren,  consider  your  own  lives,  and  ask  yourselves 
whether  you  are  worthy  labourers  of  the  Lord,  whether 
you  are  mindful  of  the  work  you  are  doing,  and  lastly 
whether  you  labour  indeed  in  the  Lord’s  vineyard.  Be 
sure  that  those  who  work  for  their  own  interests  only, 
have  not  entered  the  vineyard  of  the  Lord  ;  for  those 
only  are  accounted  as  His  labourers,  who  prefer  the 
glory  of  God  to  their  own  profit  and  interest.  Such 
worthy  Christians  endeavour  to  serve  God  with  ardent 
love  and  sincere  devotion ;  they  strive  to  win  souls  to 
God,  and  exert  themselves  to  take  others  along  with 
them  to  the  habitation  of  the  Saints  ;  whereas  those 
who  live  for  themselves  and  try  to  satisfy  their  vices  and 


86 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


concupiscences,  are  condemned  as  idle  labourers,  making 
no  effort  to  work  in,  or  care  for,  the  Lord’s  vineyard. 

III.  What  shall  we  say  of  those  who  put  off  their 
conversion  to  the  end  of  their  life  ?  Are  they  not  like 
those  labourers  standing  in  the  market-place  until  the 
eleventh  hour,  to  whom  the  householder  said  :  Why  stand 
you  here  all  the  day  idle  ?  Our  Saviour  wishes  them  to 
understand  that,  having  spent  their  childhood  and  youth, 
in  the  service  of  the  world  and  far  from  God,  they  are 
called  upon  to  begin  to  turn  to  God,  at  least,  now  at  the 
extreme  limits  of  life,  and  with  greater  courage  to  walk 
on  the  road  of  justice,  that  leads  to  perfection  and  eternal 
life  ;  for  the  work  they  are  bid  to  do  cannot  last  very  long, 
since  they  came  so  late.  Thus  this  good  Householder 
invites  them  to  come  back  to  Him,  and  often  rewards 
them  before  those  who  had  been  called  from  their  child¬ 
hood,  since  very  often  the  last  comers  are  called  away 
the  first.  Remember  the  good  Thief  (Luke  xxiii.).  He 
came  at  the  eleventh  hour ;  but  by  the  capital  punish¬ 
ment  he  suffered,  he  obtained  a  reward  certainly  not 
deserved  by  his  former  sinful  life.  He  recognised  Jesus 
to  be  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  confessed  Him  publicly, 
and  almost  at  the  same  moment  gave  up  the  ghost.  We 
see  thereby  that  the  Householder,  giving  the  promised 
penny,  began  with  the  last ;  for  the  good  Thief  was 
received  into  Paradise  before  St.  Peter.  The  same 
happened  to  many  good  and  pious  souls  living  before 
the  Law  and  under  the  Law.  They  had  to  wait  for 
their  reward,  whilst  those  called  after  the  coming  of  the 
Messiah,  at  once  went  to  Paradise.  We  may  also  say, 
in  all  truth,  that  the  same  reward — that  is,  a  penny, — was 
given  to  them  that  had  worked  one  hour  only,  as  to  the 
others  who  had  been  working  the  whole  day  and  had 
borne  the  burden  of  the  day  and  the  heats .  For  the  eternal 


SEPTUAGESIMA  SUNDAY 


87 


happiness,  that  reward  given  to  them  that  worked  well, 
will  be  common  to  all  of  them,  both  to  those  who  came 
at  the  beginning  and  to  those  who  arrived  with  the 
Redeemer.  This  very  equality  was  the  cause  of  com¬ 
plaints :  These  last  have  worked  but  one  hour ,  and  thou  hast 
made  them  equal  to  us  that  have  borne  the  burden  of  the  day 
and  the  heats .  Indeed,  the  first  comers  can  say  that  they 
have  borne  the  burden  of  the  day  and  the  heats,  since 
their  life  was  longer  than  ours.  They  came  at  the 
beginning,  when  the  life  of  man  was  very  long,  and  they 
had  to  fight  against  their  own  self  for  many  years.  We  * 
also  feel  in  us  the  fire  of  concupiscence,  against  which  we 
contend,  and  which  we  try  to  extinguish  ;  and  this  con¬ 
tinual  fighting  may  be  compared  to  the  burden  of  the  day 
and  the  heats. 

IV.  Besides  all  this,  I  ask,  what  is  the  meaning  of  the 
murmurs  of  those  who  received  the  reward  in  heaven 
very  late  ?  Also  in  what  sense  can  we  say  that  they 
murmured,  since  heaven  will  not  be  given  to  those  who 
murmur,  and  since  those  who  have  entered  heaven 
neither  murmur  nor  complain  ?  I  answer  :  If  I  consider 
that  the  patriarchs,  though  leading  a  good  and  holy  life, 
could  not  enter  Paradise  before  the  coming  of  the  Son  of 
God,  Who  by  His  death  reopened  the  gates  of  heaven, 
we  find  therein,  that  is,  in  the  delay  preventing  them  to 
receive  the  reward  for  which  they  worked  so  hard,  the 
real  motive  of  their  murmuring.  After  fighting  for 
justice1  sake,  and  thus  deserving  the  crown  of  glory,  their 
souls  went  to  Umbo ,  a  place  of  rest  and  peace.  To  them, 
therefore,  we  may  attribute  the  murmurs  of  the  labourers 
after  their  day’s  work.  However,  after  this  presupposed 
murmuring,  the  souls  of  the  just,  leaving  their  prison, 
that  is  limbo ,  wherein  they  had  been  detained  for  a  long 
time,  receive  the  promised  penny,  namely,  the  happiness 


88 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


of  the  eternal  kingdom,  of  which  they  take  possession. 
As  to  us  who,  though  arriving  at  the  end  of  the  day, 
receive  a  penny,  we  do  not  murmur  like  those  who 
arrived  the  first.  Since  the  coming  of  the  Redeemer 
into  this  world,  we  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven  as 
soon  as  we  leave  this  life,  and  we  receive  without  any 
delay  the  crown  of  glory  granted  to  the  patriarchs  after 
their  very  long  waiting.*  On  this  occasion  the  master 
of  the  house  said  to  one  of  the  labourers  :  I  will  also  give 
to  this  last  even  as  to  thee .  And,  as  the  place  in  heaven 
assigned  to  a  soul  is  an  effect  of  His  generous  will,  He 
adds :  Or,  is  it  not  lawful  for  me  to  do  what  I  will  ?  It 
would  be  man’s  greatest  folly  to  criticise  the  manner  in 
which  God’s  goodness  deigns  to  act.  Indeed,  we  could 
murmur  against  God,  were  He  to  refuse  that  which  He 
is  bound  to  give,  but  not  when  He  refuses  to  grant  what 
He  is  not  in  justice  obliged  to  give.  He,  therefore,  that 
murmurs,  deserves  this  rebuke  :  Is  thy  eye  evil  because  I 
am  good  ?  Hence  we  conclude  that  nobody  is  to  boast  of 
his  work  or  of  the  time  spent  in  doing  it,  for  the  Eternal 
Truth  tells  us :  The  last  shall  be  first ,  and  the  first  last . 
Though  we  be  aware  of  our  good  works,  we  know  not 
how  strictly  they  will  be  scrutinized  by  the  great  Judge ; 
yea,  each  of  us  ought  to  feel  exceedingly  happy  to  receive 
even  the  last  place  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

V.  The  following  words  of  this  Gospel,  many  are  called , 
but  few  are  chosen ,  cannot  but  inspire  us  with  terror ;  for 
many  receive  the  light  of  faith,  but  to  a  few  only  is 

granted  the  happiness  of  heaven.  On  account  of  the 

* 

#  It  would  be  a  mistake  to  infer  from  these  words  that  St.  Gregory 
did  not  believe  in  Purgatory.  Their  meaning  is  that  a  soul,  leaving  the 
body  and  having  nothing  to  atone  for,  will  be  at  once  received  into 
Paradise,  unlike  the  just  souls  of  the  patriarchs  which,  before  the  coming 
of  Christ,  descended  into  limbo, 


SEPTUAGESIMA  SUNDAY  ?9 

festival  there  are  now  a  great  many  gathered  together 
here,  and  there  is  hardly  room  for  all  within  the  walls  of 
this  temple.  Yet,  who  can  tell  how  many  of  them  will  one 
day  be  found  among  the  number  of  the  elect  ?  All  voices 
are  loud  in  confessing  Jesus,  but  the  lives  of  those  who 
confess  Him  do  not  agree  with  their  exterior  acts  of  faith. 
The  greater  number  of  those  here  present  think  it  suffi¬ 
cient  to  follow  Jesus  in  words,  whilst  by  their  acts  they 
are  separated  from  Him.  St.  Paul  points  them  out  to  us, 
saying  :  They  profess  that  they  know  God ,  but  in  their  works 
they  deny  Him  (Tit.  i.  16).  This  is  confirmed  by  St.  James : 
Faith  without  works  is  dead  (Jas.  ii.  26).  And  the  Psalmist 
repeats  the  words  of  God  :  I  have  declared  and  I  have  spoken; 
they  are  multiplied  above  number  (Ps.  xxxix.  6).  By  these 
words  we  understand  that,  when  the  Lord  calls  men 
through  His  prophets,  the  number  of  believers  greatly 
increases.  However,  not  all  those  who  by  the  gift  of 
faith  obtain  the  knowledge  of  the  truth  will  be  numbered 
among  the  elect.  It  is  certain  that  when  a  great  number 
of  wicked  Christians  are  gathered  together  with  true 
servants  of  God,  because  of  the  same  faith  that  they 
profess,  they  nevertheless  do  not  deserve  to  be  numbered 
with  the  faithful  on  account  of  their  unchristian  lives. 
For  it  cannot  be  denied  that,  though  the  holy  Church 
includes  in  the  same  fold  the  sheep  and  the  goats,  the 
Eternal  Judge  will  one  day  separate  the  just  from  the 
wicked,  as  the  shepherd  separates  the  sheep  from  the  goats 
(Matt.  xxv.  32).  Know  ye,  therefore,  and  recognise  that 
none  of  those  now  given  up  to  the  pleasures  of  the  world 
will  be  received  among  the  elect ;  that  the  Judge  will 
exclude  them  from  the  happy  fate  of  the  humble,  since  in 
this  world  they  were  lifted  up  on  the  wings  of  pride.  They 
had  received  the  gift  of  heavenly  faith,  but  they  clung  to 
the  earth,  and  heaven  will  not  be  opened  to  them. 


90 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


VI.  Meanwhile,  though  a  great  many  people,  whose 
lives  are  unchristian,  may  be  found  in  the  Church  of  God, 
I  beseech  you,  beloved  brethren,  neither  to  imitate  them 
nor  to  think  them  to  be  lost.  We  are  aware  of  the 
unhappy  condition  of  these  people  to-day,  but  we  know 
not  what  they  will  be  to-morrow.  It  often  happens  that 
those  whom  we  see  behind  us  on  the  road  to  holiness,  soon 
precede  us  on  account  of  their  progress  in  spirituality ;  then 
it  is  with  great  difficulty  that  we  follow  those  whom  at 
some  time  we  seemed  to  precede.  When  St.  Stephen 
shed  his  blood  for  Christ,  his  murderers  laid  their  garments 
at  the  feet  of  a  young  man  whose  name  was  Saul  (Acts  vii.  57), 
and  who  may  be  accused  of  having  also  stoned  St.  Stephen 
by  assisting  the  murderers ;  yet,  by  his  great  labours 
undertaken  for  the  Church,  Saul  has  gone  before  the 
holy  martyr,  to  whose  death  he  contributed.  Let  us, 
therefore,  consider  these  two  things  greatly  deserving  our 
attention.  First,  knowing  that  many  are  called  but  few 
are  chosen,  no  one  can  help  himself  without  the  grace  of 
God,  and,  though  being  called  by  faith,  no  one  is  sure  of 
his  eternal  salvation.  Secondly,  when  we  see  our  neigh¬ 
bour  in  the  clutches  of  sin  and  vice,  let  us  not  pre¬ 
sumptuously  think  that  he  will  be  lost,  for  God’s  infinite 
mercy  is  unknown  to  us. 

SEXAGESIMA  SUNDAY. 

Gospel:  Luke  viii.  4.-15.  At  that  time:  When  a  very 
great  multitude  was  gathered  together,  and  hastened  out 
of  the  cities  to  meet  Jesus,  He  spoke  by  a  similitude.-  A 
sower  went  out  to  sow  his  seed ;  and  as  he  sowed,  some 
fell  by  the  wayside ;  and  it  was  trodden  down,  and  the 
fowls  of  the  air  devoured  it.  And  other  some  fell  upon  a 
rock  ;  and  as  soon  as  it  was  sprung  up,  it  withered  away, 


SEXAGESIMA  SUNDAY  91 

\ 

because  it  had  no  moisture.  And  other  some  fell  among 
tholrns  ;  and  the  thorns  growing  up  with  it  choked  it. 
And  other  some  fell  upon  good  ground,  and  sprung  up, 
and  yielded  fruit  a  hundredfold.  Saying  these  things,  He 
cried  out :  He  that  hath  ears  to  hear,  let  him  hear.  And 
His  disciples  asked  Him  what  this  parable  might  be.  To 
whom  He  said  :  To  you  it  is  given  to  know  the  mystery 
of  the  kingdom  of  God,  but  to  the  rest  in  parables  ;  that 
seeing  they  may  not  see,  and  hearing  they  may  not  under¬ 
stand.  Now  the  parable  is  this:  The  seed  is  the  Word 
of  God.  And  they  by  the  wayside,  are  they  that  hear ; 
then  the  devil  cometh,  and  taketh  the  word  out  of  their 
hearts,  lest  believing  they  should  be  saved.  Now,  they 
upon  the  rock  are  they  who,  when  they  hear,  receive  the 
word  with  joy ;  and  these  have  no  roots,  for  they  believe 
for  a  while,  and  in  time  of  temptation  fall  away.  And 
that  which  fell  among  thorns  are  they  who  have  heard, 
and  going  their  way,  are  choked  with  the  cares  and  the 
riches  and  pleasures  of  this  life,  and  yield  no  fruit.  But 
that  on  the  good  ground  are  they,  who,  in  a  good  and 
perfect  heart,  hearing  the  word,  keep  it,  and  bring  forth 
fruit  in  patience. 


HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
CHURCH  OF  ST.  PETER  ON  SEXAGESIMA  SUNDAY. 

Fifteenth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  The  extract  from  the  Holy  Gospel  which  you  have 
just  heard,  beloved  brethren,  needs  not  so  much  that  it 
should  be  explained  as  that  its  lesson  should  be  impressed 
on  your  minds.  The  Truth  Himself  has  explained  it,  and 
after  that,  it  is  not  becoming  man’s  frailty  to  discuss  His 
exposition  as  if  not  reliable.  But  there  is,  in  that  very 
explanation  of  our  Lord,  somewhat  which  it  behoves  us 


92 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


well  to  weigh.  For,  if  we  asked  you  to  believe  that  by  the 
seed  is  signified  the  word,  by  the  field,  the  world,  by  the 
birds,  the  devils,  and  by  the  thorns,  riches,  you  would 
perhaps  doubt  the  truth  of  our  exposition.  Therefore,  the 
Lord  Himself  deigned  to  give  this  explanation,  and  that, 
not  for  this  parable  only,  but  that  you  may  know  in  what 
manner  to  interpret  others,  the  meaning  of  which  He  has 
not  given.  Beginning  His  explanation,  the  Lord  says 
that  He  is  speaking  in  parables ;  and  thereby  He  assures 
us  when  our  weakness  would  unveil  .to  you  the  hidden 
meaning  of  His  words.  For  who  would  believe  me  were 
I  to  say  that  riches  are  thorns  ?  Thorns  prick,  but 
riches  afford  us  delight.  And  yet  riches  are  thorns, 
indeed,  for  the  anxiety  they  bring  is  a  ceaseless  pricking 
in  the  minds  of  their  owners,  and,  if  they  lead  to  sin,  they 
are  thorns  which  tear  the  soul  to  bleed.  But  we  under¬ 
stand  from  another  Evangelist  (Matt.  xiii.  28),  that  in  this 
place  our  Lord  speaks  not  of  the  riches  themselves,  but 
of  the  deceitfulness  of  riches.  Those  riches  are  deceitful, 
which  can  be  ours  for  a  little  while  only  ;  those  riches 
are  deceitful,  which  cannot  relieve  the  poverty  of  our 
souls.  If,  then,  you  seek  to  be  rich,  beloved  brethren, 
earnestly  desire  the  true  riches ;  if  you  would  be  truly 
honourable,  strive  after  the  kingdom  of  heaven  ;  if  you 
love  to  reach  the  summit  of  titles  and  dignities,  hasten  to 
have  your  names  written  in  Court  above,  where  angels 
are. 

II.  Take  to  heart  the  Lord’s  words  which  your  ears 
hear.  The  food  of  the  soul  is  the  word  of  God.  When 
the  stomach  is  sick  it  rejects  again  the  food  that  is  put 
into  it ;  and  so  is  the  soul  sick  when  a  man  hears  and 
digests  not  in  his  memory  the  word  of  God.  And  if  any 
man  cannot  retain  his  food,  that  man’s  life  is  in  a  desperate 
case.  Thus  we  ought  to  fear  for  our  soul,  lest  it  should 


SEXAGES1MA  SUNDAY 


93 


be  lost,  when  receiving  the  food  of  holy  admonition,  we 
do  not  keep  in  our  memory  the  words  of  life  which  would 
preserve  in  us  true  Christian  justice.  Further,  consider 
that,  whatsoever  you  are  doing  now,  will  in  time  pass 
away,  and  that  every  day  you  come  nearer  the  moment 
of  the  strict  account  to  be  given  to  God.  Are  you  con¬ 
vinced  of  this  truth  ?  Then  why  do  you  love  such  goods 
as  you  must  leave,  and  why  are  you  careless  about  that 
end  which  you  will  soon  reach,  and  by  which  your  fate  in 
eternity  will  be  decided  ?  Do  remember  the  words  of  your 
Redeemer  :  He  that  hath  ears  to  hear  let  him  hear.  Not  all 
of  those  who  were  present  and  heard  these  words,  under¬ 
stood  them ;  for  our  Lord  wished  them  to  be  heard  with 
the  ears  of  the  heart  and  mind,  and  not  with  the  ears 
of  the  body  only,  so  that  His  doctrine  may  be  under¬ 
stood  and  accepted .  Be  careful,  therefore,  that  the  Divine 
word  you  receive  be  not  taken  from  your  heart  and 
memory ;  be  careful  that  this  word  fall  not  by  the  way- 
side,  that  is,  watch,  lest  through  your  carelessness  and 
distraction  the  devil  take  the  word  out  of  your  hearts. 
Be  careful  that  this  precious  seed  fall  not  into  your  souls 
as  upon  rocks,  that  is,  that  for  want  of  perseverance  on 
your  part,  it  cannot  take  root,  and  will,  therefore,  wither 
away.  Many  are  seen  receiving  the  words  of  salvation 
with  joy  ;  some  also  are  noticed  beginning  to  practise 
virtues,  but  they  fall  away  in  time  of  temptation.  By 
their  inconstancy  and  the  fickleness  of  their  mind  they 
are  like  the  dry  and  rocky  ground,  where  the  seed  springs 
up  and  withers  away,  because  it  has  no  moisture.  Such 
Christians  perhaps  hear  a  sermon  against  avarice,  and  at 
once  they  feel  for  that  vice  the  aversion  it  deserves,  and 
they  praise  those  who  despise  the  goods  of  this  world. 
But  as  soon  as  an  opportunity  is  at  hand  to  gratify  their 
own  concupiscence  and  covetousness,  the  praises  given  to 


94 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


the  contempt  of  riches  disappear  from  their  memory. 
When  a  sermon  against  impurity  is  preached,  there  are 
many  who,  at  the  terrible  picture  drawn  of  this  shameful 
vice,  not  only  resolve  never  to  commit  such  heinous  sins, 
but  are  also  deeply  ashamed  of  their  past  offences  where¬ 
with  they  are  reproached  by  their  own  conscience.  Yet, 
should  a  dangerous  object  be  presented,  they  long  for  it 
with  the  same  eagerness,  as  if  they  had  not  made  the 
resolution  to  avoid  such  objects.  They  relapse  into  the 
same  sins  which  they  had  previously  committed  and 
execrated.  It  sometimes  happens  that  they  shed  tears 
over  their  debaucheries,  and  yet  they  return  to  them  as 
soon  as  they  cease  to  bewail  them.  Thus  Balaam  shed 
tears  of  contrition,  seeing  the  camp  of  the  Israelites,  and 
wished  to  be  in  death  like  this  people  beloved  by  God. 
Let  my  soul  die  the  death  of  the  just ,  he  said,  and  my  last  end 
be  like  to  them  (Num.  xxiii.  io).  But  these  feelings  of 
contrition  were  hardly  expressed,  when  the  desires  of  this 
impious  man  were  again  inflamed  by  avarice.  At  the 
sight  of  the  presents  offered  to  him,  he  gave  the  most 
abominable  advice,  so  as  to  bring  about  the  destruction  of 
the  very  people  to  whom  he  had  wished  to  be  like.  His 
sorrow  and  contrition  were  forgotten,  for  he  had  not 
entirely  extinguished  the  flames  of  avarice  burning  in  his 
soul. 

III.  Explaining  His  parable,  our  Redeemer  says  that 
the  cares,  the  riches  and  the  pleasures  of  this  life  choke 
the  seed  of  the  Divine  word.  Indeed,  they  choke  it 
through  the  continual  thoughts  awakened  in  the  mind, 
preventing  this  word  of  life  from  taking  root.  Then, 
since  these  useless  thoughts  shut  the  door  of  the  heart  to 
good  desires,  they  also  prevent  the  heart  from  receiving 
the  inspirations  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  Who  preserves  the 
life  of  the  soul.  Let  us  also  note  that,  in  the  parable  of 


SEXAGESIMA  SUNDAY 


95 


the  Lord,  both  the  cares  and  the  pleasures  of  this  life  are 
connected  with  the  possession  of  riches,  because  the 
troubles  about  riches  oppress  the  mind  ;  then,  by  their 
superabundance,  they  deliver  us  up  to  sinful  pleasures. 
For  it  is  certain  that  rich  people  have  many  cares  and 
troubles  on  account  of  their  love  for  the  things  of  this 
world ;  and  it  is  also  certain  that  they  indulge  in  sensual 
pleasures,  though  it  seems  that  these  two  statements  do 
not  agree.  Yet,  we  may  say,  that  if  at  one  time  they 
feel  uneasy  about  their  riches,  at  another  they  are 
mollified  by  the  allurements  of  lust,  to  which  they  are 
attracted  by  their  wealth. 

IV.  The  good  seed,  falling  upon  good  ground,  yields 
fruit  a  hundredfold,  yet  brings  forth  that  fruit  in  patience. 
For  our  good  works  would  be  of  no  avail  to  us,  did  we 
not  patiently  and  generously  bear  the  trials  inflicted  on 
us  by  our  neighbour.  The  more  we  advance  in  virtue, 
the  heavier  become  the  crosses  wherewith  our  Father  in 
heaven  allows  us  to  be  burdened,  in  order  to  try  those 
who  serve  Him.  How  is  this  ?  Because  the  more  a 
soul  endeavours  to  be  separated  from  the  love  of  the 
world,  the  more  it  finds  this  same  world  contemptible 
and  loathsome.  Indeed,  we  see  that  the  greater  number 
of  virtuous  people  doing  good  works  are  nevertheless 
overwhelmed  with  troubles  and  trials.  The  stronger 
they  fight  against  sensual  temptations,  the  more  bitter 
are  their  sufferings.  Yet  it  is  just  in  this  manner  that, 
according  to  the  Redeemer’s  words,  the  just  bring  forth 
fruit  in  patience.  They  humbly  submit  to  the  scourges 
wherewith  they  are  smitten  by  God  in  this  world,  and 
afterwards  rise  to  enjoy  the  eternal  rest  prepared  for 
them  in  heaven.  We  may  compare  them  with  grapes, 
which,  being  trodden  under  feet,  yield  a  delicious  wine. 
They  are  also  like  the  fruit  of  the  olive-tree,  which  yields 


96 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


in  the  press  a  frothy  liquid,  that  becomes  the  precious  oil. 
Lastly,  the  just  are  like  to  the  wheat,  which,  being 
thrashed  on  the  floor  and  separated  from  the  chaff,  is 
preserved  in  the  barn.  Those,  therefore,  who  wish  their 
sins  and  passions  to  be  destroyed,  ought  to  submit 
willingly,  for  their  spiritual  progress,  to  the  stripes 
wherewith  Divine  Providence  chastises  them.  Then 
they  will  appear  before  the  judgment-seat  of  God  so 
much  the  purer,  the  more  they  were  cleansed  from  the 
rust  of  sin  by  the  fire  of  suffering. 

V.  My  assertions  will  be  proved  by  the  example  of 
Servulus,  which  I  now  place  before  you.  He  was 
begging  at  the  door  of  the  Church  of  St.  Clement,  and 
many  among  you  have  known  this  poor  man  as  well  as  I 
did.  Deprived  of  all  earthly  riches,  yet  rich  in  spiritual 
goods,  he  was  for  years  afflicted  with  a  terrible  disease. 
From  his  youth  to  the  very  end  of  his  life,  he  was  on  his 
sick-bed,  without  being  able  to  rise  or  even  to  sit  up. 
Palsy,  which  reduced  him  to  this  sad  condition,  had 
deprived  him  of  the  use  of  his  limbs ;  he  could  neither 
raise  his  hand  to  his  mouth,  nor  turn  over  on  his  bed. 
The  mother  and  brother  of  this  poor  man  waited  on  him, 
and  gave  to  other  poor  people  the  remainder  of  the  alms 
he  received.  Though  he  had  never  learnt  how  to  read, 
he  had  a  copy  of  the  Holy  Scripture  bought,  and  pious 
people,  whom  he  most  hospitably  received,  read  it  out  to 
him.  Thus  he  acquired  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the 
Holy  Writ,  according  to  his  intellect,  which,  as  I  said, 
had  not  been  cultivated.  Amidst  his  sufferings,  his 
principal  object  was  to  thank  and  praise  God  day  and 
night  with  psalms  and  spiritual  canticles.  -  But  when 
the  hour  came  that  heaven  was  to  reward  such  heroic 
virtue,  the  acute  pains  of  the  palsy  reached  the  heart, 
and,  feeling  himself  at  the  point  of  death,  he  summoned 


SEXAGESIMA  SUNDAY 


97 


his  own  people  and  others,  and  asked  them  to  stand  up 
and  sing  psalms  until  he  died.  Whilst  he  himself  was 
singing  with  others,  he  suddenly  stopped,  and  said 
in  a  strong  and  extraordinary  voice  :  ‘  Do  you  hear  the 
songs  of  praise  resounding  in  heaven  ?’  And  while 
listening  ^  to  that  melodious  heavenly  harmony,  his 
innocent  soul, left  his  body.  A  delicious  fragrance  was 
noticed  by  the  assistants,  and  recognised  by  them  as  a 
sign  that  his  soul  had  been  taken  up  to  heaven.  A  monk 
belonging  to  a  monastery,  where  I  stayed  for  some  time, 
witnessed  these  facts,  the  remembrance  of  which  made 
him  shed  tears  of  joy.  I  was  assured  by  him  that,  until 
the  burial  of  the  body,  the  same  delicious  odour  was 
perceived  by  all  those  present.  Beloved  brethren,  do 
think  of  the  precious  death  of  one  who,  whilst  on  earth, 
bore  all  the  troubles  and  trials  of  life  with  patience  and 
resignation.  By  his  invincible  courage,  he  became  like 
to  the  good  ground,  which,  according  to  our  Redeemer, 
brings  forth  fruit  in  patience,  and,  after  suffering  the 
plough  of  tribulations,  yields  fruit  a  hundred -fold.  Now, 
I  ask  you  and  entreat  you  to  consider  what  answer  we 
shall  give  at  the  terrible  judgment  ?  In  spite  of  the 
graces  wherewith  we  were  enriched  by  Divine  Providence ; 
in  spite  of  the  hands  given  to  us  for  useful  work,  we 
languish  in  idleness  and  neglect  good  works.  Does  not 
the  example  of  that  poor  and  sick  man  condemn  our 
carelessness  ?  He  had  in  this  life  neither  the  goods  of 
this  world  nor  the  use  of  his  limbs,  yet  he  strictly 
observed  the  Lord’s  precepts.  What  shall  we  say  for 
our  justification,  when  the  example  of  the  Apostles, 
surrounded  by  the  innumerable  nations  converted  by 
their  labours  and  preaching,  will  be  placed  before  us  by 
the  Judge  ;  when  we  shall  see  so  many  praiseworthy 
martyrs  who,  making  the  sacrifice  of  their  lives,  bought 

7 


98  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

heaven  with  their  blood  shed  for  Jesus  Christ  ?  What 
shall  we  answer,  when  blessed  Servulus  stands  before  us, 
he  who  constantly  laboured  and  did  good  works,  though 
his  arms,  paralyzed  by  disease,  were  of  no  use  to  him  ?  Do 
think  of  all  this,  beloved  brethren,  in  order  to  encourage 
yourselves  to  do  good  works ;  place  before  your  eyes  the 
beautiful  models  of  virtue  proposed  to  your  imitation,  and 
one  day  you  will  share  with  them  the  eternal  beatitude 
in  heaven. 


QUINQUAGESIMA  SUNDAY. 

Gospel:  Luke  xviii.  31-43.  At  that  time:  Jesus  took 
unto  Him  the  twelve,  and  said  to  them  :  Behold,  we  go 
up  to  Jerusalem,  and  all  things  shall  be  accomplished 
which  were  written  by  the  prophets  concerning  the  Son 
of  Man.  For  He  shall  be  delivered  to  the  Gentiles,  and 
shall  be  mocked,  and  scourged,  and  spit  upon  ;  and  after 
they  have  scourged  Him,  they  will  put  Him  to  death,  and 
the  third  day  He  shall  rise  again.  And  they  understood 
none  of  these  things.  And  this  word  was  hid  from  them, 
and  they  understood  not  the  things  that  were  said.  Now 
it  came  to  pass,  that  when  He  drew  nigh  to  Jericho,  a 
certain  blind  man  sat  by  the  wayside  begging.  And 
when  he  heard  the  multitude  passing  by,  he  asked  what 
this  meant.  And  they  told  him  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth 
was  passing  by.  And  he  cried  out,  saying :  Jesus,  Son 
of  David,  have  mercy  on  me.  And  they  that  went 
before  rebuked  him,  that  he  should  hold  his  peace  ;  but 
he  cried  out  much  the  more :  Son  of  David,  have  mercy 
on  me.  And  Jesus,  standing,  commanded  him  to  be 
brought  unto  Him.  And  when  he  was  come  near,  He 
asked  Him,  saying :  What  wilt  thou  that  I  do  to  thee  ? 
But  he  said :  Lord,  that  I  may  see.  And  Jesus  said  to 


QUINQUAGESIMA  SUNDAY 


99 


him :  Receive  thy  sight ;  thy  faith  hath  made  thee  whole. 
And  immediately  he  saw,  and  followed  Him,  glorifying 
God.  And  all  the  people  when  they  saw  it,  gave  praise 
to  God. 

HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
CHURCH  OF  ST.  PETER  ON  QUINQUAGESIMA  SUNDAY. 

Second  Homily  -on  the  Gospels. 

I.  Foreseeing  that  the  minds  of  His  Apostles  would 
be  troubled  by  the  thought  of  His  suffering,  our 
Redeemer  told  them  long  before,  both  of  the  pains  of 
that  suffering  and  of  the  glory  of  His  rising  again ;  to 
this  end  that,  when  they  should  see  Him  die,  as  He  had 
prophesied,  they  might  not  doubt  that  He  was  likewise 
to  rise  again.  But,  since  His  disciples  were  as  yet 
carnal,  and  could  not  understand  His  words,  telling  of 
this  mystery,  He  wrought  a  miracle  before  them.  A 
blind  man  received  his  sight  before  their  eyes,  that,  if 
they  could  not  comprehend  heavenly  things  by  words, 
they  might  be  convinced  of  heavenly  things  by  deeds. 
But  we  must  so  take  the  miracles  of  our  Lord  and 
Saviour,  as  believing,  both  that  they  were  actually 
wrought,  and  that  they  have  some  mystic  meaning  for 
our  instruction.  For  in  His  works  power  speaks  one 
thing,  and  mystery  again  another.  Behold,  for  instance : 
we  know  not  historically  who  this  blind  man  was,  but 
we  know  of  what  he  was  mystically  a  figure.  Mankind 
is  blind,  driven  out  of  Paradise  in  the  persons  of  our  first 
parents,  knowing  not  the  light  of  heaven,  and  suffering 
the  darkness  of  condemnation.  Nevertheless,  by  the 
coming  of  his  Redeemer  man  is  enlightened,  so  that  he 
sees  by  hope  already  the  gladness  of  interior  light,  and 
walks  by  good  works  in  the  path  of  life. 


7—2 


IOO 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


II.  Note  also,  beloved  brethren,  that,  as  Jesus  drew 
nigh  to  Jericho,  a  blind  man  received  his  sight.  Now, 
this  name  Jericho ,  being  interpreted,  signifies  the  city  of  the 
moon ,  and  in  Holy  Scripture  the  moon  is  used  as  a  figure 
of  our  imperfect  flesh,  of  whose  gradual  corruption  her 
monthly  waning  is  a  type.  Therefore,  as  our  Creator 
draws  nigh  to  Jericho,  a  blind  man  receives  his  sight. 
Whilst  God  takes  unto  Himself  our  weak  human  nature, 
man  receives  again  the  light  which  he  had  lost.  By 
God’s  suffering  in  the  Manhood,  man  is  raised  up  towards 
God.  This  blind  man  is  also  well  described  as  sitting  by 
the  wayside  begging  ;  for  the  Truth  says  :  I  am  the  way 
(John  xiv.  6).  He  that  knows  not  Him  Who  is  eternal 
light,  is  blind.  But  as  soon  as  he  believes  in  Jesus,  the 
Redeemer,  then  he  is  sitting  on  the  road  leading  to 
salvation.  When  man  has  faith,  but  is  not  continually 
asking  to  be  enlightened  by  Divine  light,  he  may,  like  the 
blind  man,  sit  on  the  road,  but  he  is  not  begging  alms. 
But  when  by  means  of  faith  he  begins  to  believe,  when 
he  recognises  the  blindness  of  his  heart,  and  unceasingly 
asks  to  be  delivered  from  it  and  to  receive  the  light  of 
truth,  then  he  is  like  to  the  poor  and  unhappy  blind  man 
who,  sitting  by  the  wayside,  was  begging.  Let  him, 
therefore,  who  recognises  his  darkness,  and  the  need  of 
eternal  light,  cry  out  with  all  the  desires  of  his  heart  and 
all  the  fervour  of  his  soul:  Jesus ,  Son  of  David,  have  mercy 
on  me  !  This  was  the  prayer  of  the  blind  man  to  the 
Redeemer,  whilst  those  who  went  before  rebuked  him ,  and 
asked  him  to  hold  his  peace. 

III.  And  what  do  we  understand  by  those  who  went 
before,  but  the  crowd  of  bad  desires  and  theTestlessness 
of  our  passions  disturbing  our  mind  and  troubling  our 
heart,  when  we  cry  to  our  Saviour  ?  We  experience  this 
only  too  often,  that,  when  after  a  sinful  life  we  wish  to 


QU1NQUAGES1MA  SUNDAY 


101 


return  to  God ;  when  we  ask  Him  for  strength  to  pray 
well,  and  to  renounce  the  sins  enslaving  us,  the  image 
of  our  former  sins  is  pictured  in  our  memory,  the  light  of 
our  intellect  is  darkened,  our  courage  is  weakened,  and 
we  remain  insensible  to  the  voice  of  God’s  minister 
preaching  the  truth.  Thus,  those  who  went  before  our 
Lord  rebuked  the  blind  man  of  Jericho,  that  he  should 
hold  his  peace ;  and  we  learn  therefrom  the  important 
lesson  that,  before  Jesus  comes  into  our  hearts,  the 
awful  image  of  our  sensual  pleasures  rises  in  our  memory, 
so  as  to  prevent  the  effects  of  our  prayers, 

IV,  However,  the  blind  man,  waiting  to  be  cured,  is 
our  teacher.  Though  he  was  rebuked,  he  cried  out 
much  more  :  Son  of  David ,  have  mercy  on  me  !  Thus  our 
prayer  must  be  the  more  ardent  and  assiduous,  the 
stronger  the  noise  of  wicked  thoughts  that  rise  in  our 
mind  and  endeavour  to  prevent  it.  When  the  stormy 
crowd  of  temptations  call  back  the  remembrance  of  our 
sins,  and  assail  us  from  all  sides,  trying  to  make  us 
neglect,  if  possible,  our  prayers,  then  our  powerful  and 
repeated  cry  towards  heaven  will  render  all  these 
phantoms  useless  and  powerless.  However,  the  things 
I  say  now,  may  be  learned  by  you,  through  your  own 
experience.  For  when  wd  begin  to  tear  our  thoughts 
and  desires  away  from  the  world,  and  to  turn  them  to  God ; 
when  we  give  up  our  mind  to  prayer,  then  the  worldly 
thoughts  and  sinful  pleasures  of  our  former  life  return 
to  attack  and  distract  us.  And  this  assault  of  our  former 
thoughts  is  so  strong  that,  in  spite  of  good  desires  and 
even  tears  of  repentance,  it  is  only  by  the  greatest  care 
and  watchfulness  that  we  succeed  in  keeping  our  hearts 
in  safety. 

V.  Meanwhile,  we  may  be  sure  that,  if  we  persevere 
in  our  prayers,  Jesus  will  remain  with  us,  as  He  stayed 


102 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


for  some  time  with  the  blind  man.  And  Jesus ,  standing , 
commanded  him  to  be  brought  unto  Him .  And  the  words  of 
the  Gospel  tell  us,  not  without  a  special  motive,  that 
Jesus  was  first  passing  by,  then  was  standing.  We 
learn  from  this  that,  when  powerless  phantoms  endeavour 
to  disturb  us  in  our  prayers,  Jesus  seems  to  be  passing 
by ;  but  that  when,  in  spite  of  their  attacks,  we  persevere 
in  these  prayers,  Jesus  remains  standing  by  us,  and 
delivers  us  from  blindness.  For  when  God  takes  His 
abode  in  our  heart,  He  dispels  darkness  by  His  Divine 
light. 

VI.  There  is  yet  another  lesson  taught  by  our  Lord  in 
that  miraculous  cure  of  the  blind  man,  that  is,  the 
manifestation  both  of  the  marks  of  His  Divinity  and  of 
the  signs  of  His  humanity.  For  when  the  Man-God 
heard  the  blind  man  cry  out  to  Him,  He  did  not  cure 
him  until  standing  still,  showing  us  that  He  was  man, 
because  He  passed  by,  and  that  He  was  also  God, 
because  He  remained  standing.  Was  not  our  Redeemer, 
as  man,  to  be  born  among  us,  to  increase  in  years,  to 
die,  to  rise  from  the  dead,  and  to  move  about  from  one 
place  to  another  ?  But,  being  at  the  same  time  God,  He 
gives  us  to  understand  that  He  is  immovable,  and  that 
all  changes  noticed  in  Him,  came  from  His  humanity  ; 
whilst,  as  God,  He  is  always  the  same,  without  any 
change,  present  everywhere,  without  shifting  His 
dwellings.  Again,  our  Redeemer  heard  the  voice  of 
the  blind  man  whilst  passing  by,  and  granted  him  light 
whilst  standing  still,  thus  teaching  us  that  His  humanity 
called  His  attention  and  love  to  the  blindness  of  which 
we  suffered,  and  His  Divine  power  enlightened  us  with 
the  light  of  His  grace. 

VII.  For  our  further  instruction  we  hear  Jesus,  as 
soon  as  He  saw  the  blind  man,  say  to  him:  What  wilt 


QUINQUAGESIMA  SUNDAY 


103 


thou  that  I  do  to  thee  ?  Our  Saviour,  having  the  power  to 
restore  the  sight  to  the  blind  man,  was  certainly  not 
ignorant  of  that  which  he  was  going  to  ask.  But  He 
wished  to  teach  us  that  it  was  His  will  we  should  ask 
Him,  though  He  knows  our  desires  and  is  willing  to 
grant  them.  He,  therefore,  very  often  exhorts  us  to 
pray  to  Him,  though  He  assures  us  that  His  Father  in 
heaven  knows  all  our  needs  before  we  ask.  He  wishes 
to  encourage  us  to  trust  in  Him,  and  to  awaken  in  our 
hearts  real  love  for  prayer.  We  hear  the  blind  man  at 
once  uttering  his  request,  and  asking  to  receive  the  light. 
He  was  asking  neither  for  gold  nor  for  riches  of  any  kind, 
but  for  light,  since,  without  this  gift,  all  other  goods  could 
not  satisfy  him.  Let  us,  then,  beloved  brethren,  imitate 
this  man  in  his  prayer,  for  he  received  therewith  the 
health  both  of  soul  and  body.  Let  us  beseech  the  Lord 
not  for  the  riches  of  this  world,  nor  for  the  perishable 
blessings  of  honour  and  fame,  but  for  the  true  light  %  and 
not  for  the  limited  light,  which  for  a  moment  only 
interrupts  the  long  night,  and  is  common  to  us  with 
the  unreasonable  animals.  Let  us  ask  for  the  uncreated 
light  to  be  seen  in  the  company  of  the  elect,  that  light 
having  no  beginning  and  being  eternal  in  its  duration. 
Faith  will  lead  us  to  this  light,  according  to  the  words 
of  Jesus  to  the  blind  man  :  Receive  thy  sight ;  thy  faith  hath 
made  thee  whole .  Should  the  sensual  man  object  and  say 
that  this  light,  being  invisible,  cannot  be  reached,  that 
nobody  can  be  sure  of  a  thing  which  cannot  be  seen,  he  will 
soon  be  convinced  of  his  error,  when  told  that  his  interior 
feelings  do  not  arise  from  his  body,  but  from  his  thinking 
soul.  Though  nobody  can  see  his  sOul,  yet  there  cannot 
be  any  doubt  about  our  having  an  invisible  soul,  ruling 
our  visible  body.  F or,  when  this  invisible  soul  is  separated 
from  our  visible  body,  the  latter  is  immediately  destroyed, 


104 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


being  deprived  of  the  essence  of  its  existence.  There¬ 
fore,  since  it  is  certain  that  we  live  by  means  of  this 
invisible  being,  namely,  the  soul,  not  perceived  by  our 
senses,  why  should  we  doubt  the  Truth  teaching  us 
that  there  will  be  another  life  which  we  cannot  see 
now  ? 

VIII.  When  we  perceive  the  good  result  of  the  blind 
man’s  prayer,  we  recognise  from  the  words  of  the  Gospel 
why  this  man  at  once  saw  the  light  and  followed  our 
Redeemer.  He  that  recognises  what  is  good  and  at  the 
same  time  endeavours  to  do  it,  imitates  the  blind  man 
who,  seeing  Jesus,  followed  Him.  Whereas  he  who 
sees  Jesus  and  does  not  follow  Him,  acknowledges  what 
is  good,  but  does  not  consider  it  his  duty  to  do  it.  Be¬ 
loved  brethren,  when  we  are  aware  of  the  blindness  in 
which  we  are  weeping  in  this  vale  of  tears  ;  when,  by 
the  help  of  faith  telling  us  of  the  mystery  of  Redemp¬ 
tion,  we  sit  on  the  road  leading  to  life  ;  when  daily  we 
ask  the  Author  of  salvation  to  enlighten  us  ;  when,  lastly, 
we  enjoy  that  heavenly  light,  taking  us  out  of  the  dark¬ 
ness  in  which  we  were  wandering,  then  nothing  remains 
to  us  but  to  follow  by  our  good  works  the  Saviour, 
Whom  we  see  by  the  light  of  faith.  Let  us  carefully 
examine  the  place  He  passes  through,  then  follow  His 
steps  by  imitating  His  example ;  for  it  is  by  imitation 
that  we  follow  Him,  as  He  Himself  teaches,  saying  to 
one  of  His  disciples  :  Follow  Me ,  and  let  the  dead  bury  the 
dead  (Matt.  viii.  22).  And  to  show  that  the  words 
follow  Me  mean  imitate  Me,  our  Lord  says  in  another 
place  of  the  Gospels :  If  any  man  minister  to  Me,  let  him 
follow  Me  (John  xii.  26).  To  be  worthy  of  Him,  we 
must  follow  His  steps  and  examine  the  way  in  which  He 
walked.  And  first  we  see  that  He,  the  Creator  of  all 
heavenly  and  reasonable  beings,  deigned  to  descend  into 


Q UINQ UA  GESIMA  SUNDA  Y  105 

the  womb  of  a  virgin,  there  to  assume  the  human  nature, 

which  He  Himself  had  created  out  of  nothing.  We  see 

that  He  did  not  choose  to  be  born  of  rich  parents,  when 

taking  our  human  nature,  but  chose  poor  parents,  who 

were  not  even  able  to  offer  for  Him  in  the  temple  a  lamb, 

but  only  a  pair  of  turtle-doves  or  two  young  pigeons. 

Thus  our  Redeemer  did  not  seek  happiness  in  this  world; 

He  endured  insults,  scorn,  and  blasphemies ;  He  allowed 

Himself  to  be  spit  upon,  to  be  buffeted,  scourged, 

crowned  with  thorns,  and  nailed  to  a  cross.  He  would 

give  us  to  understand  that  the  pleasures  we  derived  from 

corporeal  things,  robbed  us  of  the  eternal  happiness,  of 

* 

which  we  can  again  take  possession  only  by  drinking  the 
bitter  chalice  of  suffering.  Yet,  since  God  suffered  so 
much  for  man,  what  suffering  will  the  sinful  man  be 
ready  to  endure  ?  When  after  all  this  a  Christian,  be¬ 
lieving  in  Jesus  Christ,  is  still  ruled  and  led  by  avarice 
or  ambition  ;  when  he  is  still  devoured  by  the  fire  of 
envy  or  carnal  pleasures ;  when  he  is  eagerly  rushing 
after  the  happiness  of  this  world,  then  we  can  truly  say 
that,  instead  of  following  Jesus,  he  is  despising  Him, 
because  he  is  walking  on  quite  a  different  road,  and  not 
on  the  road  taken  by  the  Son  of  God  during  His  mortal 
life  of  bitter  suffering.  Let  us,  therefore,  recall  to  our 
mind  our  own  wickedness  ;  let  us  remember  that  the 
eternal  Judge  will  punish  our  sins  most  severely  ';  then, 
let  us  endeavour  to  destroy  them  by  sorrowful  repentance. 
Now,  let  us  do  severe  penance,  and  thus  escape  in 
eternity  the  terrible  wrath  of  an  offended  God.  The 
tears  shed  in  this  life  will  take  us  to  the  joys  of  heaven, 
for  our  Lord  said  :  Blessed  are  they  that  mourn ,  for  they  shall 
be  comforted  (Matt.  v.  5) ;  whereas  the  pleasures  of  this 
world  will,  according  to  the  same  Saviour,  bring  us  to 
the  eternal  dwelling  of  tears  and  sorrow.  Woe  to  you 


106  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

that  now  laugh,  for  you  shall  mourn  and  weep  (Luke  vi.  25). 
If  we  wish  to  obtain  the  highest  felicity,  let  us  now  walk 
in  the  path  of  penance,  and  our  penitential  life  will  not 
only  gain  for  us  great  merits  with  God,  but  will  be  to 
His  greater  glory  ;  for,  according  to  the  words  of  the 
Gospel,  others  will  be  encouraged  by  our  good  example : 
And  all  the  people ,  when  they  saw  it ,  gave  praise  to  God . 

ASH-WEDNESDAY. 

Gospel:  Matt.  vi.  16-21.  At  that  time:  Jesus  said  to 
His  disciples  :  When  you  fast,  be  not  as  the  hypocrites, 
sad.  For  they  disfigure  tfieir  faces,  that  they  may 
appear  to  men  to  fast.  Amen,  I  say  to  you,  they  have 
received  their  reward.  But  thou,  when  thou  fastest, 
anoint  thy  head,  and  wash  thy  face,  that  thou  appear 
not  to  men  to  fast,  but  to  thy  Father,  Who  is  in  secret ; 
and  thy  Father,  Who  seeth  in  secret,  will  repay  thee. 
Lay  not  up  for  yourselves  treasures  on  earth,  where  the 
rust  and  moth  consume,  and  where  thieves  break 
through  and  steal ;  but  lay  up  for  yourselves  treasures 
in  heaven,  where  neither  rust  nor  moth  doth  consume, 
and  where  thieves  do  not  break  through  nor  steal.  For 
where  thy  treasure  is,  there  is  thy  heart  also. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Book  it.,  on  the  Lord’s  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  Chap.  xii. 

I.  By  these  precepts,  as  it  is  evident,  we  are  bidden 
to  seek  for  interior  gladness,  lest,  by  running  after  that 
reward  which  is  without,  we  should  become  conformed 
to  the  ways  of  this  world,  and  should  so  lose  the  promise, 
of  that  blessing  which  is  all  the  truer  and  more  solid  as 
it  is  inward  ;  that  blessing  wherein  God  chose  us  to  be 


ASH-WEDNESDAY 


107 


conformed  to  the  likeness  of  His  Son.  In  this  chapter 
we  will  principally  consider  that  vain-glory  finds  a 
ground  for  action  in  sordid  poverty  as  much  as  in 
worldly  distinction  and  display ;  and  this  development  is 
the  more  dangerous,  since  it  deceives  under  the  pretence 
of  serving  God.  He  that  is  marked  out  by  his  un¬ 
bridled  indulgence  in  dress  or  luxury,  or  any  other 
display,  is  by  these  very  things  recognised  to  be  a 
follower  of  worldly  vanities,  and  deceives  no  one  by 
putting  on  a  hypocritical  mask  of  holiness.  But  'those 
professing  true  Christianity,  who  draw  all  eyes  on  them¬ 
selves  by  an  eccentric  show  of  filthiness  and  dirtiness, 
not  suffered  by  necessity,  but  by  their  own  will,  we  must 
judge  of  them  by  their  other  works,  whether  their  con¬ 
duct  really  proceeds  from  the  desire  of  mortification, 
giving  up  unnecessary  comfort,  or  is  only  the  means  of 
some  ambitious  design.  The  Lord  tells  us  to  beware  of 
wolves  in  sheep’s  clothing,  but,  by  their  fruits  you  shall 
know  them ,  He  says  (Matt.  vii.  20).  We  test  them,  when 
by  some  trials  such  persons  lose  the  very  things  which, 
under  the  cover  of  pretended  unworldliness,  they  either 
gained  or  sought  to  gain.  Then  it  will  appear  whether 
they  be  wolves  in  sheep’s  clothing,  or,  indeed,  sheep  in 
their  own.  But,  that  hypocrites  do  such  contrary  things, 
does  not  entitle  the  true  Christian  to  think  it  his  duty  to 
shine  before  the  eyes  of  men  by  the  display  of  needless 
luxury ;  for  the  sheep  need  not  lay  aside  their  own 
clothing,  because  wolves  sometimes  falsely  assume  it. 

II.  Let  us  note  that  Jesus  combines  fasting  with 
prayers  and  alms,  spoken  of  in  this  Gospel,  as  one  of  the 
best  means  to  resist  the  devil.  Though  our  Lord  attacks 
the  vain-glory  attending  the  false  virtues  of  the  Pharisees, 
and  making  them  hypocrites  in  the  eyes  of  God,  He  does 
not  condemn  the  sadness  of  a  sinful,  humbled,  and  con- 


108  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

trite  heart.  On  the  contrary,  this  sadness  accompanying 
our  fasting,  is  agreeable  to  God.  But  He  condemns  the 
voluntary  forced  sadness,  that  comes  not  from  a  heart 
penetrated  with  the  love  of  God,  but  is  only  exterior.  It 
is  a  pretended  sadness  that  tries  to  obtain  the  esteem  of 
the  multitude,  who  praise  the  severe  penance  of  such 
people,  whom  God,  seeing  their  hearts,  justly  condemns. 
The  words  of  the  Gospel :  When  thou  fastest ,  anoint  thy  head 
and  wash  thy  face ,  must  not  be  taken  in  a  literal  sense, 
for  we  should  certainly  be  found  guilty  if  observing  them. 
The  real  meaning  of  these  words  is  this  :  As  the  ancients 
anointed  their  heads  and  washed  their  faces  in  days  of 
joy,  so  we,  in  the  days  of  fasting,  ought  to  show  holy  joy. 
It  is  evident  that,  in  all  these  commandments,  our 
Redeemer  had  in  view  one  object  only,  that  is,  to  make 
us  enter  into  our  own  heart,  there  to  find  the  interior  joy 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.  There  may  be  as  much  vanity  in 
the  neglected  exterior  appearance  of  some  people  and 
their  mournful  looks,  as  in  fine  garments  and  exterior 
cheerfulness.  And  this  kind  of  vanity  is  to  be  feared  the 
more,  since  it  is  the  more  deceitful  under  the  appearance 
of  piety  and  godliness.  He,  fasting,  anoints  his  head, 
when  subject  to  Jesus,  his  Divine  Head,  he  refers  to  Him 
all  the  merits  of  fasting,  and  feels  an  interior  joy  when, 
avoiding  the  pleasures  of  the  world  for  His  sake,  he  takes 
no  notice  of  the  praise  of  the  people.  He  washes  his 
face,  who  is  carefully  purifying  his  heart,  knowing  that 
the  sight  of  the  countenance  of  the  Lord  is  promised  to  a 
pure  heart. 

III.  You  wish  to  fast  well ;  then  humble  your  soul, 
especially  at  the  approaching  of  that  day,  when  the 
Teacher  of  humility  humbled  Himself  and  was  obedient 
unto  death,  even  to  the  death  on  the  cross.  Let  us 
imitate  Him  in  His  sufferings  by  subduing  our  desires 


FIRST  SUNDAY  IN  LENT 


109 


with  salutary  abstinence.  Let  us  chastise  our  body  in 
order  to  keep  it  into  subjection,  and,  that  our  perverse 
flesh  may  not  tempt  us  to  commit  unlawful  deeds,  let  us 
refuse  to  it,  at  least  for  a  time,  the  lawful  enjoyment  of 
some  things.  Drunkenness  and  intemperance  can  never 
be  allowed  ;  but  in  these  holy  days  meals  which  may  be 
permitted  at  other  times,  should  be  restricted.  Your 
body  will  feel  more  obedient  and  subservient,  the  more  it 
is  separated  from  things  lawful,  and  is  accustomed  to 
abstain  from  rightful  pleasures.  And  you  will  continue 
in  holy  cheerfulness  to  retrench  the  expenses  of  your 
table,  the  excesses  of  meals,  and  even  avoid  whatsoever 
flatters  the  palate. 

FIRST  SUNDAY  IN  LENT. 

Gospel:  Matt.  iv.  1-11.  At  that  time:  Jesus  was  led 
by  the  Spirit  into  the  desert,  to  be  tempted  by  the  devil. 
And  when  He  had  fasted  forty  days  and  forty  nights, 
He  was  afterwards  hungry.  And  the  tempter  coming, 
said  to. Him:  If  thou  be  the  Son  of  God,  command 
that  these  stones  be  made  bread.  Who  answered  and 
said:  It  is  written,  ‘Not  by  bread  alone  doth  man  live,, 
but  by  every  word  that  proceedeth  out  of  the  mouth 
of  God.*  Then  the  devil  took  Him  into  the  holy  city, 
and  set  Him  upon  a  pinnacle  of  the  temple,  and  said  to 
Him  :  If  Thou  be  the  Son  of  God,  cast  Thyself  down  ; 
for  it  is  written :  He  hath  given  His  angels  charge  over 
Thee,  and  in  their  hands  shall  they  bear  Thee  up,  lest 
perhaps  Thou  dash  Thy  foot  against  a  stone.  Jesus  said 
to  Him :  *  It  is  written,  Thou  shalt  not  tempt  the  Lord 
thy  God.’  Again  the  devil  took  Him  up  into  a  very  high 
mountain,  and  showed  Him  all  the  kingdoms  of  the 
world,  and  the  glory  of  them,  and  said  to  Him  :  All 


no 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


these  will  I  give  Thee,  if  Thou  wilt  fall  down  and  adore 
me.  Then  Jesus  said  to  him  :  1  Begone,  Satan  ;  for  it  is 
written,  The  Lord  thy  God  shalt  thou  adore,  and  Him 
only  shalt  thou  serve.*  Then  the  devil  left  Him,  and, 
behold,  angels  came  and  ministered  unto  Him. 

HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
CHURCH  OF  ST.  JOHN  LATERAN. 

Sixteenth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  It  is  often  asked  by  some  people  what  spirit  it  was 
by  which  Jesus  was  led  into  the  wilderness,  on  account  of 
the  words  a  little  further  on  :  Then  the  devil  took  Him  into 
the  holy  city  ;  and  again  :  The  devil  took  Him  up  into  a  very 
high  mountain .  But  in  truth,  and  without  any  further 
searching,  we  may  believe  it  was  the  Holy  Ghost  who 
led  Him  up  into  the  wilderness.  His  own  Spirit  led  Him 
where  the  evil  spirit  found  Him  to  tempt  Him.  How¬ 
ever,  when  it  is  said  that  He,  God  and  Man,  was  taken 
up  by  the  devil,  either  into  a  very  high  mountain  or  into 
the  holy  city,  the  mind  shrinks  from  believing,  and  the 
ears  of  man  tingle  when  hearing  it.  Yet  we  know  that 
these  things  are  not  incredible,  when  we  consider  certain 
other  things  concerning  Him.  Indeed,  the  devil  is  the 
head  of  all  the  wicked,  and  every  wicked  man  is  a  member 
of  that  body,  of  which  the  devil  is  the  head.  Was  not 
Pilate  a  limb  of  Satan  ?  Were  not  the  Jews  who  perse¬ 
cuted,  and  the  soldiers  who  crucified  Christ,  likewise 
limbs  of  Satan  ?  Is  it  then  strange  that  He  should 
allow  Himself  to  be  led  up  into  a  mountain  by  the  head, 
Who  allowed  Himself  to  be  crucified  by  the  members  ? 
Therefore  it  is  not  unworthy  of  our  Redeemer,  Who  came 
to  be  slain,  that  He  should  be  willing  to  be  tempted.  It 
was  meet  that  He  should  thus  overcome  our  temptations 


FIRST  SUNDAY  IN  LENT 


m 


by  His  own,  even  as  He  came  to  overcome  our  death,  by 
His  own.  We  ought  to  know  that  temptation  works 
under  three  forms.  There  is  first  the  suggestion,  then 
the  delectation,  or  pleasure,  and,  lastly,  the  consent. 
When  we  are  tempted,  it  often  happens  that  we  fall  into 
delectation,  and  even  into  consent,  because  in  the  sinful 
flesh  of  which  we  are  begotten,  we  carry  in  ourselves 
matter  to  favour  the  attack.  But  God,  when  He  took 
flesh  in  the  womb  of  the  Virgin,  and  came  into  the  world 
without  sin,  did  so  without  having  in  Himself  anything 
of  this  lusting  of  the  flesh  against  the  spirit.  It  was 
possible,  therefore,  for  Him  to  be  tempted  in  the  first 
stage,  namely,  suggestion  ;  but  there  was  nothing  in 
His  mind,  in  which  delectation  could  fix  its  teeth.  Thus 
all  the  temptation  He  endured  from  the  devil  was  with¬ 
out,  and  none  within  Him. 

II.  If,  now,  we  consider  the  order  of  the  temptations 
attacking  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  we  see  with  what 
power  our  Saviour  delivered  us  from  the  snares  prepared 
for  us  by  the  enemy  of  our  salvation.  For,  when  the 
old  Serpent  rose  against  the  first  man,  the  father  of  the 
human  race,  he  attacked  him  with  three  kinds  of  tempta¬ 
tions,  namely,  intemperance,  vain-glory  and  avarice. 
And  being  thus  tempted,  he  was  overcome  by  the  devil, 
for  he  gave  his  consent.  When  Satan  showed  to  man 
the  forbidden  fruit,  and  persuaded  him  to  eat  of  it,  he 
attacked  him  with  the  weapon  of  intemperance ;  then  he 
tempted  him  with  vain-glory,  saying  that  he  would  be' 
like  to  God ;  lastly,  avarice  was  his  weapon,  since  he 
assured  him  that  he  would  possess  the  knowledge  of 
good  and  evil.  For  avarice  consists  not  only  in  the 
inordinate  love  of  riches,  but  also  in  the  desire  of 
exaltation  ;  and  we  are  in  reality  avaricious,  when  in  an 
ambitious  manner  we  desire  to  obtain  dignities  to  which 


112 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


we  cannot  lay  claim.  This  is  also  the  teaching  of  St. 
Paul,  who,  speaking  of  Jesus  Christ,  says  :  Who ,  being  in 
the  form  of  God ,  thought  it  not  robbery  to  be  equal  to  God  ;  but 
emptied  Himself  \  taking  the  form  of  a  servant  (Phil,  ii,  6,  7). 
The  devil,  therefore,  attacked  our  first  parent  with  the 
arrows  of  avarice,  for  he  awakened  in  him  the  desire  of 
exalting  himself. 

III.  But  this  tempter,  the  old  dragon,  who  by  his 
artifice  had  overcome  the  first  man,  was  in  his  turn 
overcome  by  another  Man,  with  the  very  same  weapons 
he  had  used  in  former  times.  For  our  Redeemer,  the 
Man-God,  was  assailed  by  the  devil  in  the  same  manner 
as  our  first  parent ;  first,  with  the  sensual  appetite,  since 
he  said  to  Him  :  If  thou  be  the  Son  of  God ,  command  that 
these  stones  be  made  bread .  Then  he  tempted  Him  with 
vain-glory,  asking  Him  to  cast  Himself  down  from  a 
pinnacle  of  the  temple,  and  so  to  show  that  He  was  the 
Son  of  God,  saving  His  life  by  a  miracle.  Lastly,  he 
tempted  Him  with  avarice,  when  he  showed  Him  all  the 
kingdoms  of  the  world,  and  promised  to  give  them  to 
Him,  if  falling  down  He  would  adore  him.  But  our 
Saviour  overcame  this  enemy  by  the  same  means  that 
He  had  employed  to  tempt  the  father  of  the  human  race. 
And  after  this  defeat  he  was  enchained  by  our  Lord,  and 
forced  by  Him  to  go  out  of  our  heart  by  the  same  door 
by  which  he  had  entered  to  enslave  us.  Yet,  beloved 
brethren,  there  is  another  lesson  contained  in  this  tempta¬ 
tion  of  our  Lord.  He  could  cast  His  tempter  into  the 
eternal  abyss  by  one  single  word,  He  being  the  Eternal 
Word.  But  He  only  answered  with  the  commandments 
contained  in  Holy  Scripture,  so  as  to  give  us  an  example 
of  His  patience  and  moderation,  instead  of  a  brilliant 
sign  of  His  almighty  power.  By  this  He  teaches  us 
that,  when  our  sufferings  are  caused  by  the  wicked,  we 


FIRST  SUNDA  Y  IN  LENT 


113 


should  make  good  use  of  such  persecutions,  and  be 
instructed  by  them,  rather  than  take  revenge.  But  are 
we  not  ashamed,  when  we  consider,  on  one  side  God’s 
patience,  and  on  the  other  our  own  impatience,  when 
suffering  injustice  ?  It  often  happens,  when  we  are 
unjustly  treated  or  despised,  that  anger  fills  our  heart  at 
once.  We  try  to  take  revenge,  as  far  as  lies  in  our 
power,  and  even  threaten  with  a  revenge  of  which  we 
are  powerless.  Our  Lord  overcame  the  temptations  of 
the  devil  through  His  patience  and  meek  words.  He 
bore  an  enemy  who  deserved  the  arrows  of  His  justice, 
and  He  is  thus  the  more  worthy  of  our  admiration  and 
praise,  since  He  was  victorious  over  that  enemy  by  His 
moderation  rather  than  by  the  stripes  of  His  anger. 

IV.  Take  notice  of  the  fact  that,  as  soon  as  the  devil 
left  Jesus,  Angels  came  and  ministered  unto  Him .  Thereby 
we  are  given  to  understand  that  there  are  two  natures 
in  Jesus  Christ.  By  the  temptation  of  the  devil  we  know 
that  He  was  true  Man,  whilst  the  coming  of  the  Angels 
and  their  ministering  to  Him,  teach  us  that  He  is  also 
true  God.  Let  us,  then,  recognise  our  own  nature  in 
our  Saviour,  for  the  devil  would  not  have  dared  to 
tempt  Him,  had  he  not  perceived  in  Him  our  humanity. 
At  the  same  time^we  bring  Him  our  adorations,  for  the 
Angels  would  not  have  considered  it  their  duty  to  minister 
unto  Him,  were  He  not  as  God  exalted  over  them  and  all 
creatures. 

V.  This  Gospel,  calling  to  our  mind  the  forty  days  and 
forty  nights  of  fasting  spent  by  our  Lord  in  the  desert, 
entirely  agrees  with  the  fast  we  observe  during  this  holy 
season.  But  why  was  this  number  of  forty  days’  fasting 
sanctified  ?  We  read  in  the  history  of  the  Israelites  that 
Moses  prepared  himself  for  the  reception  of  the  Law  by 
fasting  forty  days ;  that  Elias  observed  the  same  fast ; 

8 


1 14  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

that  Jesus,  before  beginning  His  public  life,  abstained 
from  food  for  forty  days  and  forty  nights ;  and  lastly, 
that  we  also,  as  far  as  lies  in  us,  observe  this  abstinence 
and  fasting  during  the  time  of  Lent.  Though  several 
motives  may  be  set  forth  to  explain  this  law  of  the 
Church,  we  can  say  in  all  truth  that,  by  observing  this 
commandment,  we  offer  to  God  the  tenth  part  of  the 
year  granted  to  us  for  satisfying  our  corporeal  necessities. 
After  living  solely  for  ourselves  during  the  course  of  the 
year,  we  now  in  Lent  live  for  God,  offering  Him  by  our 
abstinence  a  part  of  that  year.  Now,  after  deducting 
from  the  six  weeks  of  Lent  the  Sundays — on  which  we 
do  not  fast, — we  find  that  there  remain  thirty-six  days,  so 
to  speak,  the  tenth  part  of  the  year  that  we  offer  to  God. 
The  Lord  God,  beloved  brethen,  commands  you  in  the 
Old  Law  to  offer  to  Him  the  tithe  (tenth  part)  of  your 
possessions;  it  is,  therefore,  just  that  you  should  give 
Him  the  tithe  of  your  days.  For  this  reason  it  is  every¬ 
body’s  duty  to  mortify  his  body,  according  to  his  strength, 
to  crucify  his  desires  and  subdue  his  sinful  passions,  that 
he  may  be,  as  St.  Paul  says,  a  living  sacrifice  (Rom.  xii.  i). 
For  we  are  a  living  sacrifice  when,  as  long  as  we  live,  we 
mortify  the  desires  of  the  flesh.  Just  as  the  lust  of  the 
flesh  led  us  to  commit  sin,  true  penance  must  bring  us 
back  to  God.  Consider,  again,  that  since  by  the  eating 
of  the  forbidden  fruit  we  were  shut  out  of  heaven,  so  we 
must  endeavour  to  re-enter  these  gates  by  that  temperance 
and  abstinence  which  will  atone  for  all  the  offences  against 
God  committed  by  our  intemperance. 

VI.  Yet,  let  us  not  think  that  our  fasting  will  be 
sufficient  to  appease  God,  if  it  is  not  accompanied  by  the 
merits  of  almsgiving  ;  for  He  said  to  us :  Is  not  this  rather 
the  fast  that  I  have  chosen  ?  Loose  the  bonds  of  wickedness ,  undo 
the  bundles  that  oppress ,  let  them  that  are  broken  go  free ,  and 


FIRST  SUNDA  Y  IN  LENT 


“5 

break  asunder  every  burden.  Deal  thy  bread  to  the  hungry ,  and 
bring  the  needy  and  harbourless  into  thy  house ;  when  thou  shalt 
see  one  naked ,  cover  him ,  and  despise  not  thy  own  flesh 
(Isa.  lviii.  6,  7).  This  testimony  teaches  us  that  the 
fasting  most  pleasing  to  God  is  the  one  accompanied  by 
alms  offered  by  our  hands,  that  is,  by  the  love  for  our 
neighbour,  perfected  through  works  of  mercy.  Of  what¬ 
soever  you  deprive  yourselves,  give  it  to  your  poor 
neighbour,  to  relieve  him  ;  and  these  goods,  of  which  you 
deprive  yourselves  by  mortifying  your  appetite,  will  re¬ 
joice  your  neighbour  who  is  in  need.  Hear  the  Lord's 
complaint :  When  you  fasted  and  mourned ,  did  you  keep  a  fast 
unto  Me  ?  And  when  you  did  eat  and  drink ,  did  you  not  eat  for 
yourselves ,  and  drink  for  yourselves  ?  (Zach.  vii.  5,  6).  Now, 
we  eat  for  ourselves  when  the  needy  has  no  share  in  the 
food  we  are  taking,  which,  being  a  gift  of  God,  has  been 
created  for  all  men.  And  he  keeps  a  fast  for  himself, 
who,  depriving  himself  for  a  time  of  the  food  he  used  to 
take,  preserves  it  to  satisfy  his  desires  later  on,  instead 
of  giving  it  to  the  poor.  The  prophet  Joel  exhorts  us  to 
sanctify  a  fast  (Joel  i.  14),  teaching  us,  if  we  wish  to  make 
our  abstinence  worthy  of  God  the  Almighty,  to  unite  the 
mortification  of.  our  flesh  with  the  practice  of  other 
virtues ;  to  refrain  from  anger  and  banish  hatred  from 
our  heart.  In  vain  do  we  chastise  our  body,  if  the  mind 
is  not  subdued  by  our  victory  over  sinful  passions.  God 
Himself  declares  this  through  His  prophet :  Behold ,  in 
the  day  of  your  fast  your  own  will  is  found ,  and  you  exact  of  all 
your  debtors.  Behold ,  you  fast  for  debates  and  strife ,  and 
strike  with  the  fist  wickedly  (Isa.  lviii.  3,  4).  No  injustice 
is  committed  when  you  ask  your  debtors  to  pay  what 
they  owe  you.  Yet  you  easily  understand  that  he,  who 
practises  penance,  will  even  abstain  from  exacting  that 
which  is  owed  to  him  in  justice.  When  he  mortifies 

8—2 


1 1 6  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTI V A LS 

himself  in  this  manner  and  feels  real  sorrow  for  his  sins, 
then  God  will  be  ready  to  forgive  the  debts  due  to  His 
justice,  seeing  that  for  His  sake  the  sinner  forgives  to 
others  what  they  owe  him  in  justice. 

SECOND  SUNDAY  IN  LENT. 

Gospel:  Matt,  xvii.  1-13.  At  that  time:  Jesus  taketh 
unto  Him  Peter  and  James,  and  John  his  brother,  and 
bringeth  them  up  into  a  high  mountain  apart ;  and  He 
was  transfigured  before  them.  And  His  face  did  shine 
as  the  sun ;  and  His  garments  became  as  white  as  snow. 
And  behold,  there  appeared  to  them  Moses  and  Elias 
talking  with  Him.  Then  Peter  answering,  said  to  Jesus : 
Lord,  it  is  good  for  us  to  be  here ;  if  Thou  wilt,  let  us 
make  here  three  tabernacles,  one  for  Thee,  and  one  for 
Moses,  and  one  for  Elias.  And  as  he  was  yet  speaking, 
behold  a  white  cloud  overshadowed  them.  And  lo,  a 
voice  out  of  the  cloud,  saying :  This  is  My  beloved  Son, 
in  Whom  I  am  well  pleased ;  hear  ye  Him.  And  the 
disciples  hearing,  fell  upon  their  faces,  and  were  very 
much  afraid.  And  Jesus  came  and  touched  them,  and 
said  unto  them :  Arise,  and  fear  not.  And  when  they 
lifted  up  their  eyes,  they  saw  no  one,  but  only  Jesus. 
And  as  they  came  down  from  the  mountain,  Jesus 
charged  them,  saying  :  Tell  the  vision  to  no  man,  till  the 
Son  of  Man  shall  be  risen  from  the  dead. 

HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  LEO  THE  GREAT. 

Homily  on  the  Transfiguration  of  Jesus. 

I,  The  Gospel  you  have  just  heard,  and  which  demands 
your  whole  attention,  invites  you  to  the  knowledge  of  a 
great  mystery.  We  shall  attain  this  purpose  more 


SECOND  SUNDAY  IN  LENT  117 

surely  and  with  less  trouble,  if  we  consider  what  is 
written  fin  Holy  Scripture  just  before  this  event 
(Matt.  xvi.).  Indeed,  our  Lord,  the  Redeemer  of  all 
men,  when  He  began  to  introduce  His  doctrine  into  the 
world,  namely,  His  Divine  doctrine,  which  gives  life  to 
the  dead  and  leads  the  wicked  to  justice,  instructed  His 
disciples  no  less  by  the  wonders  of  His  Almighty  power 
than  by  the  words  of  His  eternal  wisdom  and  truth. 
He  wished  to  convince  them  that  He  was  both  the  Son 
of  God  and  the  Son  of  Man  ;  for  one  without  the  other 
of  these  prerogatives  could  not  save  the  world.  It 
would  have  been  as  dangerous  to  believe  that  Jesus  was 
only  God,  as  to  think  that  He  was  only  man.  It  was 
necessary  to  believe  that  He  was  at  the  same  time  the 
one  and  the  other,  since  the  real  humanity  was  in  God, 
as  the  real  Divinity  was  in  man.  Therefore,  in  order  to 
confirm  His  disciples  in  the  necessary  knowledge  of  and 
faith  in  this  mystery,  our  Lord  asked  them  what  they 
thought  of  Him,  and  what  were  the  opinions  of  men 
concerning  Him.  St.  Peter,  one  of  the  Apostles,  en¬ 
lightened  by  God  the  Almighty,  rose  above  all  that 
which  was  human  and  sensual,  and  recognised  in  Jesus 
the  Son  of  the  living  God .  With  a  loud  voice  he  confessed 
the  glory  of  His  Divinity,  revealed  to  the  eyes  of  his 
soul,  whilst  the  eyes  of  his  body  only  saw  the  corporeal 
presence  of  his  Divine  Redeemer.  And  this  testimony 
of  the  Apostle  to  truth  was  so  pleasing  to  our  Saviour, 
that,  to  reward  his  faith,  He  called  him  blessed ,  and  at 
The  same  time  appointed  him  a  firm  rock,  upon  which  He 
would  build  His  Church,  against  which  the  gates  of  hell 
should  never  prevail.  Jesus  Christ  even  promised  Peter 
that,  whatever  sentence  he  pronounced  on  earth,  it  would 
be  ratified  in  heaven. 

II.  This  sublime  knowledge  of  the  Divinity  of  Jesus 


n8  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

was  also  to  be  united  with  that  of  the  mystery  of  His 
humanity,  so  that  the  Apostles,  after  confessing  their 
belief  in  the  Divinity  of  the  Saviour,  should  not  think  it 
unbecoming  to  God,  unable  to  suffer,  to  unite  Himself 
with  our  weak  human  nature.  Again,  they  should  not 
cherish  the  belief  that  His  humanity  was  so  glorified,  as 
to  be  unable  either  to  be  subject  to  death  or  even  to 
suffer  torments.  Indeed,  we  know  that  our  Lord  said  to 
His  disciples  that  He  must  go  to  Jerusalem ,  and  suffer  many 
things  from  the  ancients  and  scribes  and  chief  priests,  and  be  put 
to  death ,  and  the  third  day  rise  again  (Matt.  xvi.  21).  We 
see  also  that  Peter,  filled  with  love  after  proclaiming  the 
Divinity  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  certainly  animated  by  a  true 
zeal  for  the  honour  of  his  Divine  Teacher,  rebuked  Him, 
saying :  Lord ,  be  it  far  from  Thee  ;  this  shall  not  be  unto 
Thee  (Matt.  xvi.  22).  But  our  Lord,  by  a  gentle  reproof, 
.changed  the  aversion  of  the  Apostle  to  the  ignominy  of 
His  sufferings,  into  a  generous  desire  to  take  part  in  these 
very  sufferings.  This  was  also  the  motive  and  the  effect 
of  the  advice  given  by  Jesus  to  all  of  His  disciples:  If 
any  man  will  come  after  Me ,  let  him  deny  himself,  and  take  up 
his  cross ,  and  follow  Me.  And  He  continued  :  He  that  will 
save  his  life ,  shall  lose  it,  and  he  that  shall  lose  his  life  for 
My  sake,  shall  find  it  (Matt.  xvi.  24,  25).  And  the  more  to 
strengthen  them  in  this  unmovable  firmness,  by  which 
they  were  prompted  to  embrace  without  fear  even  the 
sharpest  crosses  ;  to  prevent  them  from  being  ashamed 
of  the  capital  sentence  He  was  to  undergo  ;  and  lastly,  to 
instruct  them  not  to  be  scandalized  at  the  patience  He 
was  going  to  show  during  His  Passion,  when  the  brilliant 
signs  of  His  almighty  power  would  be  hidden,  He  took 
Peter  and  James,  and  John  his  brother,  and  brought 
them  up  into  an  exceeding  high  mountain  apart,  and 
there  made  manifest  the  brightness  of  His  glory. 


SECOND  SUNDAY  IN  LENT 


1 19 


Hitherto,  though  they  understood  that  there  was  in 
Him  the  majesty  of  God,  they  knew  not  the  power  of 
that  body  which  veiled  the  Godhead ;  and  therefore  He 
had  individually  and  expressly  promised  to  some  of  His 
disciples,  who  had  stood  with  Him,  that  they  should  not 
taste  death ,  till  they  saw  the  Son  of  Man  coming  in  His  king - 
dom  (Matt.  xvi.  28)  ;  that  is,  in  the  kingly  splendour 
wThich  is  the  right  of  the  humanity  taken  into  God,  and 
which  He  desired  to  make  visible  to  those  three  men. 
This  is  what  they  saw,  for  the  unspeakable  and  inacces¬ 
sible  vision  of  the  Godhead  Himself,  which  will  be  the 
everlasting  life  of  the  pure  of  heart  (Matt.  v.  8),  no  man, 
who  is  still  burdened  with  a  mortal  body,  can  see  and 
live.  Our  Lord,  therefore,  manifested  His  glory  before 
the  witnesses  He  had  chosen,  and  allowed  His  body, 
which  is  like  to  ours,  to  appear  in  such  brilliant  light,  that 
His  face  did  shine  as  the  sun ,  and  His  garments  became  as 
white  as  snow ,  However,  the  principal  reason  for  this 
transfiguration  was  to  banish  the  scandal  of  the  cross 
from  the  hearts  and  minds  of  His  disciples  ;  also,  after 
showing  them  the  perfection  and  dignity  hidden  in  His 
person,  He  wished  to  prevent  their  faith  from  being 
weakened  by  the  sight  of  the  humiliations  He  would  so 
willingly  endure.  This  mystery  was  also  to  be  the 
foundation  of  His  Church.  For  the  Church,  being  the 
mystic  body  of  Jesus.  Christ,  recognised  in  this  glory 
surrounding  Him,  the  promise  of  that  glory  which  she 
expects  to  be  adorned  with  when,  united  to  the  Head  in 
the  happy  dwellings,  she  will  participate  in  His  own  ever¬ 
lasting  felicity.  Our  Lord  Himself  said  so,  when  speak¬ 
ing  of  His  coming  :  Then  shall  the  just  shine  as  the  sun  in  the 
kingdom  of  their  Father  (Matt.  xiii.  43).  And  this  is  con¬ 
firmed  by  St.  Paul,  saying  :  I  reckon  that  the  sufferings  of 
this  time  an  not  worthy  to  be  compared  with  the  glory  to  come , 


120 


SUN  DA  YS  AND  FESTIVALS 


that  shall  be  revealed  in  us  (Rom.  viii.  18).  And  again: 
You  are  dead ,  and  your  life  is  hid  with  Christ  in  God .  When 
Christ  shall  appear ,  Who  is  your  life ,  then  you  also  shall  appear 
with  Him  in  glory  (Col.  iii.  3,  4). 

Ill-  Now,  the  more  to  strengthen  the  faith  of  His 
Apostles,  and  to  instruct  them  in  a  more  perfect  manner, 
our  Lord,  at  the  miracle  of  the  Transfiguration,  let  Moses 
and  Elias  appear,  talking  with  Him  and  representing  the 
Law  and  the  Prophets  respectively.  The  presence  of 
these  two  personalities  was  to  justify  what  is  prescribed 
by  the  law  :  In  the  mouth  of  two  or  three  witnesses  every  word 
shall  stand  (Deut.  xix.  15).  Can  there  be  anything  more 
certain  and  credible  than  the  word  of  truth  confirmed  by 
the  testimony  of  both  the  Old  and  the  New  Testament  ? 
The  doctrine  of  the  Gospel,  preached  by  Jesus  Christ, 
perfectly  agrees  with  the  prophecies  of  the  old  law,  and 
He,  Who  was  foreshadowed  by  the  types  and  figures  of 
the  Old  Testament,  is  manifested  in  the  glory  of  His 
Transfiguration.  The  law  was  given  by  Moses  ;  grace  and 
truth  came  by  Jesus  Christ  (John  i.  17).  By  His  coming 
He  fulfilled  all  promises  made  by  the  Almighty  to  His 
people,  and  in  His  person  were  verified  the  commands 
and  legal  ceremonies  by  which  He  was  announced. 
Lastly,  He  gave  us  to  understand  by  His  coming  into 
this  world  that  the  prophecies  concerning  Him  were  true, 
and,  by  means  of  the  grace  He  gives  us,  He  makes  the 
fulfilling  of  the  commandments  very  easy  to  us.  Through 
the  knowledge  of  this  truth  St.  Peter  felt  in  himself  new 
life,  and  began  to  despise  the  things  of  this  world ;  he 
was  disgusted  with  earthly  things,  and  all  his  desires 
were  then  directed  to  heaven.  In  the  excess  of  his  joy 
at  this  beatific  vision  of  our  Redeemer’s  glory,  he  cried 
out :  Lord,  it  is  good  for  us  to  be  here .  If  Thou  wilt ,  let  us 
make  here  three  tabernacles ,  one  for  Thee}  and  one  for  Moses , 


SECOND  SUNDAY  IN  LENT 


121 


and  one  for  Elias .  Our  Lord  did  not  answer  these  words  ; 
He  wished  the  Apostle  to  understand  that  his  request, 
though  not  sinful  in  itself,  was  untimely,  since  the  world 
was  to  be  redeemed  by  the  death  of  the  Saviour.  Again, 
our  Redeemer  wished  to  teach  all  the  faithful  that,  though 
it  be  unlawful  to  doubt  the  promise  of  eternal  happiness, 
they  should  ask  Him  for  the  necessary  patience  to  bear 
the  trials  of  this  life,  rather  than  for  the  happiness  that 
is  to  be  their  reward ;  for  the  time  of  reigning  with 
Him  in  heaven  cannot  precede  the  time  of  fighting  and 
suffering. 

IV.  Peter  was  yet  speakings  when  a  bright  cloud  over¬ 
shadowed  them.  And  lo ,  a  voice  out  of  the  cloud ,  saying: 
This  is  My  beloved  Son ,  in  Whom  I  am  well  pleased ;  hear  ye 
Him .  They  plainly  heard  Him  say  :  This  is  My  Son7 
Whose  it  is  to  be  of  Me,  and  with  Me  without  all  time. 
For  neither  is  He  that  begets  before  Him  that  is  begotten, 
nor  He  that  is  begotten  after  Him  that  begets.  This  is 
My  Son ,  between  Whom  and  Me,  to  be  God  is  not  a  point 
of  difference,  to  be  Almighty,  a  point  of  separation,  nor 
to  be  Eternal,  a  point  of  distinction.  This  is  My  Son ,  not 
by  adoption,  but  My  very  own  ;  not  created  from,  or  of 
another  substance,  or  out  of  nothing,  but  begotten  of  Me  ; 
not  of  another  nature,  and  made  like  to  Me,  but  of  My 
own  Being,  born  of  Me,  equal  to  Me.  This  is  My  Son , 
by  Whom  all  things  are  made,  and  without  Whom  was 
made  nothing  that  was  made  ;  Who  makes  likewise  all 
things  whatsoever  I  make ;  and  whatsoever  things  I  do 
He  does  likewise,  inseparably  and  indifferently.  This  is 
My  Son ,  Who  thought  it  not  robbery,  nor  took  it  by 
violence,  to  be  equal  with  Me,  but,  abiding  still  in  the 
form  of  My  glory,  that  He  may  fulfil  the  common  decree 
for  the  restoration  of  mankind,  bowed  the  unchangeable 
Godhead  even  to  the  form  of  a  servant  (Phil.  ii.  6,  7). 


122 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


V.  Instantly,  therefore,  hear  ye  Him%  in  Whom  I  am 
in  all  things  well  pleased,  by  Whose  preaching  I  am 
manifested,  and  by  Whose  lowliness  I  am  glorified. 
For  He  is  the  Truth  and  the  Life  (John  xiv.  6),  My 
Power  and  My  Wisdom  (i  Cor.  i.  24).  Hear  ye  Him , 
Whom  the  Law  prefigured,  Whom  the  prophets  con¬ 
stantly  announced ;  Him,  Who  redeemed  the  world 
by  the  merit  of  His  Blood,  Who  subdued  the  power 
of  the  devils,  and  rendered  their  efforts  and  assaults 
useless;  Who  destroyed  the  sentence  pronounced  against 
man,  who  by  his  disobedience  was  truly  guilty.  Hear 
ye  Him ,  Who  opened  to  you  the  road  to  heaven,  and  Who 
by  the  punishment  on  the  Cross  erected  the  steps  leading 
you  up  to  Me.  Why  are  you  afraid  of  Him,  since  He 
offers  you  salvation  ?  Why  do  you  distrust  Him  ? 
See,  He  offers  Himself  to  deliver  you  from  your 
miseries !  Do,  then,  the  will  of  My  Anointed,  which 
agrees  with  My  own.  Get  rid  of  that  fear,  with  which 
the  weakened  nature  fills  you,  and  arm  yourselves  with 
that  courage,  which  ought  to  be  awakened  in  you  by 
faith.  For  it  would  be  unbecoming  in  you  to  feel 
depressed  at  the  sight  of  our  Redeemer’s  sufferings, 
which,  by  His  help,  you  will  share  one  day,  when  it  will 
be  necessary  to  give  your  life  for  His  sake. 

VI.  It  was  not  only  for  the  benefit  of  the  witnesses  of 
these  events  that  these  truths  were  declared,  but  the 
whole  Church  received  them  in  the  person  of  the  three 
disciples,  to  whom  they  were  revealed  by  God.  We 
must,  therefore,  ground  our  faith  upon  the  teaching  of 
the  Gospel,  so  that  no  one  may  be  scandalized  by  the 
Cross  on  which  Jesus  deigned  to  redeem  the  world. 
Let  no  one  among  you  be  afraid  of  suffering  for  justice’ 
sake  ;  let  no  one  doubt  the  revelations  promising  an 
eternal  reward ;  for  through  labour  we  are  made  sure  of 


THIRD  SUNDAY  IN  LENT 


123 


rest,  and  through  death  we  come  to  life.  Since  our 
Saviour  willed  to  take  upon  Himself  our  weakness,  we, 
on  our  side,  being  faithful  to  Him,  and  persevering  in 
His  love,  shall  surely  overcome  our  enemies,  and 
infallibly  receive  the  crown  prepared  for  us,  specially 
if  we  listen  to  the  voice  of  the  Father,  Who,  to  arm  us 
against  all  adversities,  and  encourage  us  to  observe  His 
commandments,  says  :  This  is  My  beloved  Son ,  in  Whom  I 
am  well  pleased ;  hear  ye  Him .  The  same  He  is  Who 
with  the  Father  and  the  Holy  Ghost  reigneth  for  ever 
and  ever.  Amen. 


THIRD  SUNDAY  IN  LENT. 

Gospel:  Luke  xi.  14-28.  At  that  time:  Jesus  was 
casting  out  a  devil,  and  the  same  was  dumb  ;  and  when 
He  had  cast  out  the  devil,  the  dumb  spoke,  and  the 
multitude  were  in  admiration  at  it.  But  some  of  them 
said  :  He  casteth  out  devils  by  Beelzebub,  the  prince  of  the 
devils.  And  others  tempting,  asked  of  Him  a  sign  from 
heaven.  But  He,  seeing  their  thoughts,  said  to  them  : 
Every  kingdom  divided  against  itself  shall  be  brought  to 
desolation,  and  house  upon  house  shall  fall.  And  if 
Satan  also  be  divided  against  himself,  how  shall  his 
kingdom  stand  ?  because  you  say,  that  through  Beelzebub 
I  cast  out  devils.  Now,  if  I  cast  out  devils  by  Beelzebub, 
by  whom  do  your  children  cast  them  out  ?  Therefore 
they  shall  be  your  judges.  But  if  I  by  the  finger  of  God 
cast  out  devils,  doubtless  the  kingdom  of  God  is  come 
upon  you.  When  a  strong  man  armed  keepeth  his 
court,  those  things  are  in  peace  which  he  possesseth. 
But  if  a  stronger  than  he  come  upon  him,  and  overcome 
him,  he  will  take  away  all  his  armour  wherein  he  trusted, 


124 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


and  will  distribute  his  spoils.  He  that  is  not  with  Me  is 
against  Me ;  and  he  that  gathereth  not  with  Me,  scattereth. 
When  the  unclean  spirit  is  gone  out  of  a  man,  he  walketh 
through  places  without  water,  seeking  rest ;  and  not  find¬ 
ing,  sayeth  :  I  will  return  into  my  house  whence  I  came 
out.  And  when  he  come  he  findeth  it  swept  and 
garnished.  Then  he  goeth  and  taketh  with  him  seven 
other  spirits  more  wicked  than  himself,  and  entering  in 
they  dwell  there  ;  and  the  last  state  of  that  man  becometh 
worse  than  the  first.  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  He  spoke 
these  things,  a  certain  woman  from  the  crowd,  lifting  up 
her  voice,  said  to  Him :  Blessed  is  the  womb  that  bore 
Thee,  and  the  breasts  that  gave  Thee  suck.  But  He 
said  :  Yea,  rather,  blessed  are  they  who  hear  the  word  of 
God  and  keep  it. 


HOMILY  BY  THE  VENERABLE  BEDE,  PRIEST. 

Book  iv.,  Chap,  xlviii.,  on  Luke  xi. 

I.  In  Matthew  (xii.  22)  we  read  that  the  devil  by  whom 
this  poor  creature  was  possessed,  was,  not  only  dumb,  but 
also  blind;  and  that,  when  he  was  healed  by  our  Lord, 
he  saw  as  well  as  he  spoke.  Three  miracles,  therefore, 
were  performed  on  this  one  man  :  the  blind  saw,  the 
dumb  spoke,  and  the  possessed  was  delivered.  This 
mighty  work  was  then  wrought  carnally  indeed  ;  but 
it  is  still  wrought  spiritually  in  the  conversion  of 
believers,  when  the  devil  is  cast  out  of  them,  so  that 
their  eyes  see  the  light  of  faith,  and  the  lips,  which  before 
were  dumb,  are  opened  that  their  mouth  may  utter  the 
praise  of  God.  But  some  of  them  said  :  He  casteth  out  devils 
by  Beelzebub ,  the  prince  of  devils .  These  some  were  not 
of  the  multitude,  but  were  liars  among  the  Pharisees 
and  Scribes,  as  we  are  told  by  the  other  Evangelist 


THIRD  SUNDAY  IN  LENT 


125 


(Matt.  xii.  24).  While  the  multitude,  who  seemed  to  be 
less  instructed,  wondered  at  the  work  of  the  Lord,  the 
Pharisees  and  Scribes,  on  the  other  hand,  denied  the 
facts  when  they  could,  and,  when  they  were  not  able  to 
do  so,  twisted  them  by  an  evil  interpretation,  and 
asserted  that  the  works  of  God  were  the  works  of  an 
unclean  spirit. 

II.  And  others ,  tempting ,  ashed  of  Him  a  sign  from  heaven . 
They  wished  Jesus  either  to  call  down  fire  from  heaven, 
like  Elias  (4  Kings  i.  10),  or,  like  Samuel  (1  Kings  vii.  10), 
to  make  thunder  roll,  and  lightning  flash,  and  rain  fall  at 
mid-summer.  Yet,  had  He  done  so,  they  would  have 
tried  to  explain  away  these  signs  also,  as  being  the 
natural  result  of  some  unusual,  though  till  then  unre¬ 
marked,  state  of  the  atmosphere.  O  thou,  who  stub¬ 
bornly  deniest  what  thy  eye  sees,  thy  hand  holds,  and 
thy  sense  perceives,  what  wilt  thou  say  to  a  sign  from 
heaven  ?  Perhaps  thou  wilt  say  that  the  magicians 
in  Egypt  also  wrought  many  signs  from  heaven  (Exod. 
vii.,  viii.).  But  He,  seeing  their  thoughts ,  said  to  them  ;  Every 
kingdom  divided  against  itself  shall  be  brought  to  desolation ,  and 
house  upon  house  shall  fall .  He  answered  not  their  words, 
but  their  thoughts,  as  though  He  would  compel  them  to 
believe  in  His  power,  since  He  sees  the  secrets  of  the 
heart.  But  if  every  kingdom  divided  against  itself  is 
brought  to  desolation,  then  the  kingdom  of  the  Father, 
and  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  is  not  divided,  since 
His  is  a  kingdom  that,  without  all  contradiction,  shall 
never  be  brought  to  desolation  by  any  shock,  but  shall 
abide  unchanged  and  unchangeable  for  ever.  And  if 
Satan  also  be  divided  against  himself ]  how  shall  his  kingdom 
stand  ?  because  you  say ,  that  through  Beelzebub  I  cast  out 
devils .  Saying  this,  He  sought  to  draw  from  their  own 
mouth  a  confession  that  they  had  chosen  for  themselves 


126 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


to  be  part  of  the  devil’s  kingdom,  which,  if  divided 
against  itself,  cannot  stand.  It  was,  therefore,  the  duty 
of  the  Pharisees  to  answer  our  Redeemer ;  for  should 
they  say  that  Satan  has  not  the  power  to  cast  out  devils, 
they  must  confe$s  that  they  have  not  anything  to  say 
against  Jesus.  On  the  other  hand,  should  they  pretend 
that  the  devil  has  that  power,  then,  in  order  to  secure 
their  own  safety,  they  will  be  forced  to  leave  a  kingdom 
which,  being  divided  against  itself,  will  be  brought  to 
desolation.  However,  should  the  Pharisees  wish  to 
know  by  what  power  our  Lord  casts  out  devils,  and 
to  be  convinced  that  this  is  not  done  by  the  power  of 
Beelzebub,  let  them  listen  to  the  words  He  added,  say¬ 
ing  :  Now,  if  I  cast  out  devils  by  Beelzebub ,  by  whom  do  your 
children  cast  them  out?  Therefore  they  shall  be  your  judges. 
Here  our  Lord  is  speaking  of  His  disciples  by  saying  to 
the  Pharisees  that  their  children  would  be  their  judges  ; 
for  the  disciples  of  Jesus,  being  their  posterity,  knew  for 
certain  that  in  the  school  of  so  perfect  a  Teacher  they 
had  not  learnt  the  detestable  art  of  casting  out  devils  by 
the  power  of  the  devil.  Just  as  if  our  Lord  had  said : 
You  will  be  judged  by  these  simple  men,  whom  you 
despise,  in  whom  there  is  no  guile,  who  are  free  from  all 
cunning  artifice,  whose  faces  bear  the  mark  of  virtues 
and  holiness,  which  they  discover  in  Me.  Or  should  you 
wish  to  explain  these  words  in  another  sense,  then  say 
that  our  Lord  wished  to  give  to  the  Pharisees  and  Scribes 
this  other  lesson  :  If  your  children  cast  out  devils  from 
the  bodies  of  the  possessed  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  what  reason  have  you  to  attribute  the  works  I 
perform  to  any  other  than  to  God  the  Almighty  ?  There¬ 
fore,  these  children  will  be  the  judges  of  their  fathers  and 
will  condemn  them,  for  the  children  refer  to  God  the 
power  they  possess  to  cast  out  devils,  whereas  their 


THIRD  SUNDAY  IN  LENT 


127 


fathers  referred  that  power  to  Beelzebub,  the  prince  of 
devils. 

III.  Then,  to  confirm  this  truth,  and  to  justify  the 
great  wonders  He  performed,  our  Saviour  continued  His 
discourse  with  these  words  :  But  if  I  by  the  finger  of  God 
cast  out  devils ,  doubtless  the  kingdom  of  God  is  come  upon  you. 
It  was  the  finger  of  God,  which  was  recognised  by  the 
magicians  of  Pharaoh,  when  they  played  their  tricks  or 
enchantments  before  Moses ;  for,  seeing  the  unheard-of 
wonders  of  this  man  sent  by  God,  they  exclaimed  :  This 
is  the  finger  of  God  (Exod.  viii.  19).  By  this  finger  of  God 
the  Commandments  were  written  on  the  tables  of  stone 
on  Mount  Sinai.  All  this  teaches  us  that  the  Holy 
Ghost  is  that  finger  of  God  proceeding,  as  it  were,  from 
the  hand  of  the  Son,  Who  is  the  arm  of  the!,  Almighty 
Father,  whilst  the  Father  has  one  and  the  same  nature 
with  the  Son  and  the  Holy  Ghost.  Should  you  be 
scandalized  by  this  comparison  of  the  members  which 
seem  unequal,  the  unity  of  the  body  formed  by  them  will 
edify  and  even  encourage  you.  It  may  also  be  said  that 
the  Holy  Ghost  is  called  the  finger  of  God,  on  account  of 
the  special  graces  bestowed  by  Him  to  angels  and  men ; 
for  no  other  limb  points  like  the  finger  at  the  different 
parts  composing  the  body.  When  our  Lord  said:  The 
kingdom  of  God  is  come  upon  you ,  He  meant  by  this  kingdom 
the  happy  dispositions  of  those  who  now  do  penance  for 
their  sins,  and  are,  even  in  this  life,  separated  from  the 
wicked  condemned  by  them.  When  the  strong  man  armed 
keepeth  his  court ,  those  things  are  in  peace  which  he  possessetli . 
This  strong  man  is  the  devil ;  his  court  is  the  world, 
which  he  continually  guards,  which  is  thoroughly  cor¬ 
rupted  through  his  wickedness,  and  over  which  this 
unclean  spirit  ruled  powerfully  before  the  coming  of  the 
Saviour;  for  he  reigned  without  opposition  over  the 


128 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


idolatrous  nations,  his  worshippers.  Holy  Scripture 
therefore  calls  him  the  prince  of  this  world ,  and  our  Lord 
says  of  him  to  His  disciples  The  prince  of  this  world  shall 
he  cast  out  (John  xii.  31).  And  the  better  to  describe  the 
defeat  and  flight  of  this  prince  of  darkness,  our  Lord 
added  these  words  :  But  if  a  stronger  than  he  come  upon  him , 
and  overcome  him ,  he  will  take  away  all  his  armour  wherein  he 
trusted ,  and  will  distribute  the  spoils .  We  are  thus  taught 
by  our  Lord  that  He  is  the  stronger  One,  more  powerful 
than  the  devil,  whose  dominion  was  overcome,  from  whose 
tyranny  He  delivered  mankind  by  the  strength  of  His 
almighty  arm,  and  not  by  a  deceiving  or  with  Beel¬ 
zebub-concerted  deliverance,  as  by  their  calumnies  the 
Jews  tried  to  make  the  multitude  believe.  The  cunning 
artifices  of  this  wicked  spirit  are  the  armour  wherein  the 
enemy  of  our  salvation  trusted,  and  men  deceived  by  him, 
are  the  spoils  taken  from  him  and  distributed  by  Jesus 
after  His  victory.  For,  according  to  the  prophet,  He 
will  take  with  Him,  on  the  day  of  His  triumph,  a  multi¬ 
tude  of  prisoners  up  to  heaven,  where'  He  grants  His 
gifts  in  abundance,  setting  up  in  the  Church,  some  as 
Apostles,  others  as  prophets,  and  choosing  some  as  shep¬ 
herds  or  as  teachers. 

IV.  He  that  is  not  with  Me ,  is  against  Me,  and  he  that 
gathereth  not  with  Me,  scattereth .  Though  these  words  may 
be  applied  to  heretics  and  apostates,  they  specially  refer 
to  the  devil ;  for,  according  to  the  words  following,  our 
Lord  wished  the  multitude  to  understand  that  there  can¬ 
not  be  any  comparison  between  His  works  and  those  of 
hell.  What  does  the  devil  desire  but  to  keep  souls  in  his 
slavery?  whilst  Jesus  offers  them  freedom.  The  devil 
presents  idols  and  false  gods  for  our  adoration;  Jesus 
teaches  us  to  adore  the  one  and  true  God.  The  devil 
praises  sin  and  vice,  and  Jesus  encourages  us  to  practise 


THIRD  SUNDAY  IN  LENT 


129 


virtue,  therefore,  there  cannot  be  anything  in  common 
between  Jesus  and  Satan,  for  their  works  are  in  direct 
opposition.  The  Redeemer  of  the  world  says  that,  when 
the  unclean  spirit  is  gone  out  of  a  man ,  he  walketh  through 
places  without  water ,  and  thus  teaches  us  the  difference 
between  His  works  and  those  of  the  devil.  This  latter 
endeavours  to  defile  that  which  is  clean,  whereas  the 
Redeemer  cleanses  what  fe  defiled.  Nevertheless,  by 
these  words  may  also  be  understood  heretics  and  apos¬ 
tates,  and  even  wicked  Christians  who,  after  receiving 
the  grace  of  Baptism,  making  profession  of  the  true 
Catholic  faith,  and  renouncing  the  pomps  and  vanities  of 
.  the  world,  banished  the  devil  from  their  hearts.  And  to 
this  unclean  spirit,  who  finds  his  former  house  swept  and 
garnished,  and  the  dwelling  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  one  place 
only  remains — a  dry  and  barren  land,  to  the  approaches 
to  which  he  goes,  trying  to  take  the  soul  by  surprise,  and 
to  re-enter  his  former  home.  It  may  be  said  in  all  truth 
that  this  infernal  spirit  is  seeking  rest  therein,  and  cannot 
find  it.  For  this  unclean  spirit,  who  shuns  the  proximity 
of  pure  and  innocent  souls,  can  only  make  his  abode  in 
the  souls  of  the  wicked  and  godless,  offering  him  an 
agreeable  refuge  and  a  place  of  rest.  This  enemy  of  the 
human  race,  according  to  Holy  Scripture,  sleeps  in  the 
shadow ,  in  the  covert  of  the  reed ,  and  in  moist  places  (Job  xl.  16). 
This  shadow,  hiding  him,  represents  the  darkness  of  a 
sinful  soul ;  by  the  reed,  smooth  outwardly,  yet  inwardly 
hollow,  are  meant  the  hypocrites,  who  cover  the  empti¬ 
ness  of  their  merits  with  the  appearance  of  virtue  ;  lastly, 
sensual  and  lascivious  souls  are  represented  by  the  moist 
places  into  which  the  devil  retires.  He  sayeth :  I  will 
return  into  my  house  whence  J  came  out .  Such  resolution  on 
the  part  of  our  enemy  must  make  us  fear  lest  our  pas¬ 
sions  and  vices,  which  we  thought  destroyed,  return  with 

9 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


l3° 

greater  force  to  overthrow  and  take  possession  of  ns  at 
the  very  moment  when  we  but  carelessly  resist  them. 
Though  the  enemy  on  his  return  will  find  our  soul  sancti¬ 
fied  by  the  grace  of  Baptism  and  adorned  with  the  gifts 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  he  will  also  find  in  it  a  dry  and  deso¬ 
late  place,  as  the  Gospel  says,  when  we  do  not  endeavour 
to  increase  these  graces  and  merits  by  practising  virtues 
and  good  works,  or  when  we  do  not  try  to  obtain  the 
spiritual  goods  of  which  we  were  at  one  time  deprived. 
And  should  our  soul  only  seem  to  be  adorned  with 
virtues,  these  will  be  but  apparent  virtues,  brought  forth 
by  our  hypocrisy. 

V.  And  the  devil  goeth  and  taketh  with  him  seven  other  spirits 
more  wicked  than  himself ',  and,  entering  in,  they  dwell  there . 
By  these  wicked  spirits,  seven  in  number,  are  meant  all 
sins  and  vices.  For  those  who,  after  being  sanctified  in 
Baptism,  let  their  faith  be  perverted  by  error  and  heresy, 
or  give  themselves  up  to  the  sinful  desires  of  the  children 
of  the  world,  will  soon,  by  the  blandishments  of  Satan, 
be  thrown  into  the  abyss  of  all  wickedness.  These  other 
devils,  taking  possession  of  the  souls,  are  justly  called 
more  wicked  than  the  first,  not  only  because  they  intro¬ 
duce  into  them  the  seven  capital  sins,  opposed  to  the 
seven  gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  but  also  because  these 
souls,  by  their  hypocrisy,  preserve  the  exterior  appear¬ 
ance  of  virtues,  which  they  no  longer  possess.  In  all 
truth  we  can  say  with  the  Gospel,  that  the  last  state  be - 
cometh  worse  than  the  first ,  since  it  would  be  better,  had 
these  souls  never  known  the  way  of  justice,  than  to  for¬ 
sake  it  when  once  recognised.  This  happened  to  Judas, 
the  traitor,  to  Simon,  the  magician,  and  to  many  others 
mentioned  in  Holy  Scripture.  Moreover,  our  Lord  had 
also  another  object  in  view  when  He  spoke  this  parable, 
namely,  to  apply  it  in  a  special  manner  to  the  Jews,  and 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT  131 

to  teach  them  that,  what  He  said  about  one  man  would 
be  fulfilled  in  the  whole  nation.  For  in  St.  Matthew  He 
concludes  the  same  parable  with  these  words  :  So  shall  it 
be  also  to  this  wicked  generation  (Matt.  xii.  45).  This  truth 
is  confirmed  in  a  most  astonishing  manner,  when  we  bear 
in  mind  that  the  Jews,  accepting  the  Divine  law,  forced 
the  devil  to  go  out  of  their  hearts.  This  unclean  spirit, 
driven  out  of  his  house,  took  refuge  among  the  pagans, 
as  in  a  desert,  and  there  he  found  rest.  But  when  these 
idolatrous  nations  began  to  believe  in  the  Saviour  of  the 
world,  then  the  devil,  again  driven  out  of  this  house, 
purposed  to  return  to  the  Jews,  where  he  had  formerly 
taken  up  his  abode.  He  returned  into  the  house  he  had 
left,  and  found  it  again  deserted,  for  Jesus,  Who  had 
foretold  the  Jews  that  their  house  would  be  desolate,  no 
longer  dwelt  in  their  temple.  This,  however,  still  seemed 
to  be  adorned  ;  but  these  ornaments  were  but  exterior 
and  meaningless  observances,  introduced  by  the  Phari¬ 
sees.  This  house  was  deprived  of  the  assistance  both  of 
God  and  of  the  angels,  and  the  enemy,  accompanied  by 
seven  other  spirits,  entered  without  difficulty,  and  secured 
to  himself  the  conquest  of  this  nation,  whose  unfortunate 
end  was  worse  than  its  beginning.  For,  since  this  unbe¬ 
lieving  people  has  been  blaspheming  Jesus  Christ,  it  is 
possessed  by  devils  in  a  more  cruel  manner  than  it.  was 
in  Egypt  before  the  promulgation  of  the  Law.  At  the 
time,  when  the  Jews  did  not  believe  in  the  coming 
Messiah,  they  were  less  guilty  than  when,  after  His 
coming,  they  refused  to  acknowledge  and  to  receive  Him. 

FOURTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT. 

Gospel:  John  vi.  1-15.  At  that  time:  Jesus  went  over 
the  sea  to  Galilee,  which  is  that  of  Tiberias ;  and  a  great 

9—2 


1 32 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


multitude  followed  Him,  because  they  saw  the  miracles 
which  He  did  on  them  that  were  diseased.  Jesus  there¬ 
fore  went  up  into  a  mountain,  and  there  He  sat  with  His 
disciples.  Now  the  Pasch,  the  festival  day  of  the  Jews, 
was  near  at  hand.  When  Jesus,  therefore,  had  lifted  up 
His  eyes,  and  seen  that  a  very  great  multitude  cometh  to 
Him,  He  said  to  Philip :  Whence  shall  we  buy  bread 
that  these  may  eat  ?  And  this  He  said  to  try  him,  for 
He  Himself  knew  what  He  would  do.  Philip  answered 
Him :  Two  hundred  pennyworth  of  bread  is  not  sufficient 
for  them,  that  every  one  may  take  a  little.  One  of  His 
disciples,  Andrew,  the  brother  of  Simon  Peter,  saith  to 
Him :  There  is  a  boy  here  that  hath  five  barley  loaves 
and  two  fishes ;  but  what  are  they  among  so  many  ? 
Then  Jesus  said  :  Make  the  men  sit  down.  Now  there 
was  much  grass  in  the  place.  The  men,  therefore,  sat 
down,  in  number  above  five  thousand.  And  Jesus  took 
the  loaves,  and  when  He  had  given  thanks,  He  distri¬ 
buted  to  them  that  were  sat  down.  In  like  manner  also 
of  the  fishes,  as  much  as  they  would  ;  and  when  they 
were  filled,  He  saith  to  His  disciples  :  Gather  up  the 
fragments  that  remain,  lest  they  be  lost.  They  gathered 
up,  therefore,  and  filled  twelve  baskets  with  the  frag¬ 
ments  of  the  five  barley  loaves  which  remained  over 
and  above  to  them  that  had  eaten.  Now  these  men, 
when  they  had  seen  what  a  miracle  Jesus  had  done, 
said :  This  is  of  a  truth  the  Prophet  that  is  to  come  into 
the  world.  Jesus,  therefore,  when  He  knew  that  they 
would  come  to  take  Him  by  force  and  make  Him  King, 
fled  again  into  the  mountain  Himself  alone. 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT 


*33 


HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Twenty-fourth  Tract  on  St.  John. 

I.  The  miracles  done  by  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  were 
the  very  works  announcing  His  Divinity,  and  inviting 
men  to  recognise  God  in  the  visible  work  of  His  almighty 
power.  God  Himself  is  of  such  a  nature  as  the  human 
eye  cannot  see,  and  the  miracles,  by  which  He  continually 
rules  the  whole  world,  and  satisfies  the  needs  of  all  His 
creatures,  do  not  excite  our  admiration ;  for  we  always 
see  them,  and  hardly  take  any  notice  of  the  wonderful 
fertility  given  by  Him  to  the  little  grain  of  grass  trodden 
under  our  feet.  According  to  His  mercy,  He  kept  some 
•  special  works  to  be  done  in  due  season,  but  out  of  the 
common  order  of  nature,  so  that  men  might  see  them 
and  wonder,  not  because  they  are  greater,  but  because 
they  are  not  so  common  as  those  they  but  lightly  esteem, 
since  they  see  them  every  day.  For  it  is  a  greater 
miracle  to  govern  the  whole  universe  than  to  feed 
5,000  men  with  five  loaves  of  bread.  Yet  no  man 
marvels  at  it,  though  everyone  wonders  at  the  feeding 
of  5,000  men,  not  because  it  is  a  greater  miracle  than 
the  other,  but  because  it  is  rarer.  For  is  it  not  the  same 
God  Who  feeds  the  whole  world,  and  Who,  from  a  little 
grain  that  is  sown,  makes  the  fulness  of  the  harvest  ? 
God  works  in  both  cases  in  one  and  the  same  manner  ; 
He  makes  the  harvest  to  come  of  a  few  grains  that  are 
sown,  and  in  His  hands  five  barley  loaves  are  multiplied 
for  the  feeding  of  5,000  men.  In  Christ’s  hands  is  this 
power.  He  that  multiplies  the  grains  of  corn,  also 
multiplied  the  loaves,  though  not  committing  them  to 
the  earth  created  by  Him.  This  miracle,  therefore,  is 
brought  to  bear  upon^  our  senses,  that  our  mind  may 


134 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


thereby  be  enlightened.  It  is  shown  to  our  eyes,  to  give 
food  to  our  intellect ;  so  that,  through  His  works  which 
we  see,  we  may  marvel  at  God,  .Whom  we  cannot  see, 
and,  being  roused  up  to  believe,  and  being  purified  by 
believing,  we  may  be  longing  to  see  and  to  know,  by  the 
things  we  can  see,  Him  Who  is  unseen. 

II.  However,  it  is  not  sufficient  for  us  to  see  this 
meaning  only  in  the  miracles  of  Christ.  We  must  ask 
the  miracles  themselves  what  they  have  to  tell  us  con¬ 
cerning  Jesus  Christ.  Indeed,  they  have  a  tongue  of 
their  own,  if  only  we  will  understand  it.  Since  Christ  is 
the  Word  of  God,  the  work  of  this  Word  is  a  word  for 
us.  Let  us,  therefore,  endeavour  to  understand  the 
miracle  before  us,  and  to  discover  the  mystery  contained 
in  it.  Our  Lord  went  up  into  a  mountain,  and  this  was 
done  that  His  voice  might  be  better  heard,  and  the 
miracle  He  was  going  to  perform,  might  be  seen  more 
clearly,  the  higher  the  place  and  the  easier  He  could  be 
seen.  From  this  place  He  perceived  the  multitude, 
recognised  that  they  were  hungry,  and  fed  them.  Yet, 
the  compassion  of  our  Lord  for  all  these  people  would 
have  been  of  no  avail  to  satisfy  them,  had  He  not  had  at 
the  same  time  the  power  to  do  so.  For  the  disciples  of 
Jesus,  being  themselves  tormented  by  hunger,  felt  great 
sympathy  with  the  multitude,  and  wished  to  help  them ; 
yet  they  had  neither  the  means  nor  the  power.  Our 
Lord,  seeing  the  great  multitude,  said  to  Philip  :  Whence 
shall  we  buy  bread  that  these  may  eat  ?  A  nd  this  He  said  to 
try  him ,  for  He  flimself  knew  ivhat  He  would  do.  By  this 
question  He  intended  the  ignorance  of  His  disciple  to  be 
shown ;  and,  since  this  was  manifested,  He,  without 
doubt,  wished  to  teach  us  a  truth  that  shall  be  seen 
afterwards. 

III.  In  order  briefly  to  explain  the  profound  meaning 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT 


*35 


contained  in  the  story  and  circumstances  of  this  wonderful 
multiplication  of  bread,  let  us  first  say  that  the  five  loaves 
represent  the  five  Books  of  Moses,  which,  belonging  to 
the  Old  Testament,  may  be  compared  with  barley  rather 
than  with  wheat.  For  you  know  that  the  former  is,  by 
its  nature,  covered  with  chaff,  from  which  it  is  removed 
with  some  difficulty.  And  it  is  the  same  with  the  writings 
of  the  Old  Testament  :  they  are  hidden  under  thick 
veils,  and  the  meaning  of  them  cannot  be  discovered  but 
with  difficulty,  though  they  yield  rich  food  as  soon  as  the 
shadow  of  the  types,  covering  this  meaning,  has  been 
sufficiently  removed.  The  boy  mentioned  here,  who 
brought  five  loaves  and  two  fishes ,  probably  means  the 
Jewish  people,  among  whom  the  Scriptures — of  which 
they  made  no  real  use  to  recognise  the  truth — were 
deposited.  The  two  fishes  seem  to  be  the  figure  of  the 
two  powers  established  by  God  in  the  old  covenant  to 
govern  and  sanctify  the  nation,  one  being  the  priest¬ 
hood  and  the  other  the  royal  dignity.  However,  since 
both  these  dignities  were  united  in  the  person  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Whose  types  they  were,  He  perfectly  fulfilled 
their  duties  by  sacrificing  Himself  for  us  as  High  Priest, 
and  reigning  over  us  as  King.  And  thus  the  mysteries 
of  the  Old  Testament,  announcing  Jesus  Christ,  and 
seeming  unintelligible,  were  made  clear  and  intelligible 
by  the  coming  of  this  Divine  Saviour.  He  broke  the 
loaves  and  multiplied  them,  thus  showing  that  the  five 
Books  of  Moses,  typifying  these  five  loaves,  are  by  their 
fruitfulness  infinitely  multiplied  when  they  are  by  inter¬ 
pretation  opened,  or,  so  to  speak,  broken.  The  ignorance 
of  the  people  living  under  the  Old  Law,  is  signified  by  the 
barley  of  which  the  loaves  were  made ;  for  it  is  said  of 
the  Jews  that  even  now,  when  they  read  Moses,  they  are 
covered  with  a  veil,  which  the  coming,  the  passion  and 


136  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

the  death  of  the  Messiah  were  not  able  to  remove  or 
to  tear  asunder.  Our  Lord  makes  us  perceive  this  ignor¬ 
ance  of  the  Jews  by  the  ignorance  of  His  disciple  whom 
He  addressed,  when  on  the  point  of  working  the  great 
miracle. 

IV.  All  the  different  circumstances  of  this  great  miracle, 
perfectly  well  connected,  instruct  us  if  only  we  know  how 
to  draw  the  right  conclusions.  The  number  of  5,000 
men  fed  by  our  Lord  clearly  represents  the  Israelites 
living  under  the  Law,  which  is  explained  by  the  five 
Books  of  Moses.  The  same  may  be  said  of  the  pool  of 
Bethsaida,  in  Jerusalem,  surrounded  by  five  porches  to 
shelter  the  sick.  It  represents  the  weak  and  languid 
state  of  that  people,  who  could  only  be  cured  by  the 
power  of  the  Saviour,  Who  restored  health  to  the  man 
for  many  years  sick  of  the  palsy.  Lastly,  the  multitude 
sitting  on  the  grass  are  a  figure  of  the  bestial  dispositions 
of  this  carnal  people,  who  only  loved  what  flatters  the 
senses;  for,  according  to  the  Scripture,  all' flesh  is  as  grass 
(Isa.  xl.  6).  By  the  fragments  of  the  bread  not  eaten  by 
the  multitude  we  are  taught  that  there  are  certain  truths 
which  are  above  the  intellect  of  common  people,  and  the 
understanding  of  which  is  given  only  to  those  able  to 
teach  others,  like  the  Apostles,  represented  by  the  twelve 
baskets  filled  with  the  remaining  fragments.  The  multi¬ 
tude,  witnessing  this  great  miracle,  never  tired  of  admir¬ 
ing  it.  As  for  us,  beloved  brethren,  who  hear  it  related, 
and  know  that  it  was  performed  for  our  instruction,  we 
ought  not  to  admire  it  solely,  like  the  Jews  witnessing  it. 
Our  faith,  by  which  we  believe  what  we  have  not  seen, 
raises  us  up  far  above  the  Jews,  since  our  Lord  calls 
blessed  those  who  have  not  seen  and  have  believed ,  especially 
as  we  have  the-  privilege  to  understand  what  the  multi¬ 
tude  could  not  perhaps  perceive  in  this  great  miracle. 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT 


137 


Let  us  be  convinced  that,  as  soon  as  we  are  able  to  pene¬ 
trate  the  mystery  of  this  miracle,  we  shall  find  therein  a 
far  more  useful  food  than  that  received  by  this  multitude. 

V.  Those  witnessing  this  miracle  said  of  our  Lord: 
This  is  of  a  truth  the  Prophet  that  is  come  into  the  world. 
They  probably  spoke  thus,  because  they  only  consulted 
their  own  senses  witnessing  the  circumstances  of  the 
miracle.  But  the  light  of  faith  shows  us  Jesus  as  the 
Teacher  of  the  prophets,  a  Teacher  by  Whom  they  were 
sanctified,  and  in  Whom  their  prophecies  were  fulfilled. 
Jesus  was  a  true  Prophet ;  for  the  Almighty  said  to 
Moses  :  The  Lord  thy  God  will  raise  up  to  thee  a  Prophet  of 
thy  nation  (Deut.  xviii.  15);  that  is,  Who  will  be  like 
Moses  in  the  flesh,  but  Who  will  be  exceedingly  higher 
than  Moses,  on  account  of  His  Divine  Majesty.  The 
truth  of  this  promise  was  confirmed  by  our  Lord,  Who, 
speaking  of  Himself,  said  :  Amen ,  I  say  to  you  that  no 
prophet  is  accepted  in  his  own  country  (Luke  iv.  24).  Finally, 
the  proof  that  He  is  truly  a  prophet  lies  in  the  fact  that 
He  is  the  Divine  Word,  by  which  all  prophets,  whom  we 
may  call  the  word  of  God,  were  inspired.  And  if  the 
world  has  in  olden  times  wonderingly  gazed  at  prophets 
inspired  by  God  and  filled  by  the  Holy  Ghost  to  bring 
His  words  to  the  world,  we  have  the  happiness  of  seeing 
that  Prophet,  Who  is  the  all-powerful  and  uncreated 
Word  of  God.  Since  Jesus  Christ  is  called  a  Prophet, 
though  superior  to  all  other  prophets,  we  also,  using  the 
words  of  Holy  Scripture,  call  Him  an  Angel,  though  He 
is  the  Prince  of  all  heavenly  spirits.  When  the  prophet 
calls  Him  the  Angel  of  the  great  counsel  (Isa.  ix.  6  ;  Sept.), 
he  does  not  contradict  himself,  since  he  says  elsewhere  : 
Not  an  angel,  nor  an  ambassador,  but  God  Himself  will 
come  and  save  them ;  that  is,  to  save  them  He  will  not 
send  an  angel,  will  not  send  an.  ambassador,  but  will 


138  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

come  Himself.  Who  will  come  ?  The  Angel  Himself. 
Certainly  not  by  an  angel,  except  as  He  is  an  Angel,  so 
as  to  be  also  the  Lord  of  angels.  For  angels,  in  our 
tongue,  are  messengers .  If  Christ  brought  no  message, 
He  would  not  be  called  an  Angel ;  and  if  Christ  prophe¬ 
sied  nothing,  He  would  not  be  called  a  Prophet.  Since 
He  exhorted  us  to  accept  the  faith,  and  to  walk  on  the 
road  leading  to  eternal  life,  He  fulfilled  the  duties  of  an 
Angel  sent  by  God,  for  He  announced  these  truths  whilst 
with  us.  In  the  same  manner  He  fulfilled  the  duties  of 
a  Prophet  by  His  prophecies  concerning  the  future. 
That  He  was  the  Word  of  God  made  flesh,  He  was  the 
Lord  both  of  angels  and  prophets. 

VI.  But  why  did  He  again  ascend  into  the  mountain 
when  He  perceived  that  they  wished  to  take  Him  by 
force  and  make  Him  a  King  ?  Did  He  not  know  that 
He  was  a  King,  since  He  feared  to  be  made  a  King  ? 
Indeed,  He  was  a  King ;  not  such  a  King  as  could  be 
made  by  men,  but  such  as  should  give  a  kingdom  to 
men.  May  we  not  suppose  that  by  this  action  Jesus 
signifies  something  special  to  us,  since  His  deeds  are 
words  ?  Therefore,  their  wishing  to  take  Him  by  force 
and  make  Him  a  King,  and  His  retiring  into  the  moun¬ 
tain  Himself  alone,  does  this  speak  nothing  and  signify 
nothing  ?  It  may.  be  that  their  wish  to  take  Him  by 
force  meant  they  wanted  to  forestall  the  time  of  His 
kingdom.  For  He  came  into  this  world  not  to  reign 
now,  as  He  shall  reign  in  that  kingdom  for  which  we  pray 
when  we  say,  Thy  kingdom  come .  For  being  the  Son  of 
God,  the  Word  of  God — Word  by  which  all  things 
were  created — He  for  ever  reigns  with  the  Father.  The 
prophets  foretold  His  kingdom,  according  to  that  wherein 
He  is  Christ,  made  man,  and  has  made  His  believers 
Christians.  There  shall,  therefore,  be  a  kingdom  of 


FIFTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT ,  OR  PASSION  SUNDAY  139 


Christians,  which  is  now  gathering  and  getting  together, 
and  which  is  bought  by  the  Blood  of  Jesus  Christ.  But 
there  shall  be  also,  at  some  future  time,  a  glorious  king¬ 
dom  of  Christ,  at  the  time  when  the  glory  of  His  saints 
shall  be  revealed,  after  the  judgment  executed  by  Him, 
which,  as  He  said  above,  the  Son  of  Man  will  execute. 
Of  this  kingdom  the  Apostle  says :  When  He  shall  have 
delivered  up  the  kingdom  to  God  and  the  Father  (1  Cor.  xv.  24). 
Jesus  Christ  Himself  speaks  of  this  kingdom:  Come, ye 
blessed  of  My  Father  ;  possess  you  the  kingdom  prepared  for  you 
from  the  foundation  of  the  world  (Matt.  xxv.  34).  But  the 
disciples  and  the  multitude,  believing  in  Him,  thought 
He  had  come  to  reign  now ;  hence  they  wanted  to  take 
Him  by  force  and  make  Him  a  King,  not  knowing  that 
the  time  had  not  yet  come.  Therefore,  our  Lord,  fleeing 
into  the  mountain,  shows  that  He  wished  to  hide  this 
knowledge  within  Himself,  and  bring  it  forth  in  due 
season,  that  is,  at  the  end  of  the  world. 


FIFTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT,  OR  PASSION 

SUNDAY. 

Gospel:  John  viii.  46-59,  At  that  time:  Jesus  said  to 
the  multitude  of  the  Jews :  Which  of  you  shall  convince 
Me  of  sin  ?  If  I  say  the  truth  to  you,  why  do  you  not 
believe  Me  ?  He  that  is  of  God  heareth  the  words  of 
God.  Therefore  you  hear  them  not,  because  you  are  not 
of  God.  The  Jews  therefore  answered  and  said  to  Him : 
Do  not  we  say  well  that  Thou  art  a  Samaritan,  and  hast 
a  devil?  Jesus  answered:  I  have  not  a  devil;  but  I 
honour  My  Father,  and  you  have  dishonoured  Me.  But 
I  seek  not  Mine  own  glory  ;  there  is  One  that  seeketh  and 
judgeth.  Amen,  amen,  I  say  to  you  :  If  any  man  keep  My 


140  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

word,  he  shall  not  see  death  for  ever.  The  Jews  therefore 
said  :  Now  we  know  that  Thou  hast  a  devil.  Abraham 
is  dead,  and  the  prophets ;  and  Thou  sayest  :  If  any  man 
keep  My  word,  he  shall  not  taste  death  for  ever.  Art  Thou 
greater  than  our  father  Abraham,  who  is  dead  ?  And  the 
prophets  are  dead  ?  Whom  dost  Thou  make  Thyself  ? 
Jesus  answered  :  If  I  glorify  Myself,  My  glory  is  nothing. 
It  is  My  Father  that  glorifieth  Me,  of  Whom  you  say 
that  He  is  your  God ;  and  you  have  not  known  Him,  but 
I  know  Him.  And  if  I  shall  say  that  I  know  Him  not, 
I  shall  be  like  to  you,  a  liar.  But  I  do  know  Him,  and 
do  keep  His  word.  Abraham,  your  father,  rejoiced  that 
he  might  see  My  day.  He  saw  it  and  was  glad.  The 
Jews  therefore  said  to  Him :  Thou  art  not  yet  fifty  years 
old,  and  Thou  hast  seen  Abraham  ?  Jesus  said  to  them  : 
Amen,  amen,  I  say  to  you,  before  Abraham  was  made, 
I  AM.  They  took  up  stones,  therefore,  to  cast  at  Him. 
But  Jesus  hid  Himself,  and  went  out  of  the  temple. 


HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
CHURCH  OF  ST.  PETER  ON  PASSION  SUNDAY. 

Eighteenth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  Let  us  consider  here,  beloved  brethren,  the  great 
goodness  and  meekness  of  the  Son  of  God.  He  came 
into  this  world  to  take  away  sins,  and  He  says  to  the 
Jews;  Which  of  you  shall  convince  Me  of  sin  ?  He  was 
able,  through  the  power  of  His  Divinity,  to  justify  sinners, 
and  was  contented  to  show  by  argument  that  He  was  not 
Himself  a  sinner.  But  the  words  He  added,  He  that  is 
of  God ,  heareth  the  words  of  God ,  must  fill  us  with  fear  and 
fright ;  for  you  hear  them  not ,  because  you  are  not  of  God,  He 
at  once  added.  If,  then,  whosoever  is  of  God  hears  God’s 


FIFTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT ,  OR  PASSION  SUNDAY  T41 

words,  and  whosoever  is  not  of  God  cannot  hear  Him, 
let  everyone  ask  himself,  whether  in  the  ear  of  his  heart 
he  hears  God’s  words,  and  understands  whose  words  they 
are.  The  Truth  commands  us  to  be  longing  for  a  home 
in  heaven,  to  bridle  the  lusts  of  the  flesh,  to  turn  away 
from  the  glory  of  the  world,  not  to  seek  any  man’s  goods 
and  to  give  away  our  own.  Let,  therefore,  every  one  of 
you  think  within  himself,  if  this  voice  of  God  be  heard  in 
the  ear  of  his  heart,  and  if  he  already  know  that  he  is  of 
God.  For  there  are  some,  who  do  not  deign  to  hear  the 
commandments  of  God,  not  even  with  their  bodily  ears. 
And  there  are  some  who  do  not  mind  hearing  them  with 
their  bodily  ears,  but  whose  heart  is  far  from  them. 
And  there  are  some,  who  hear  the  words  of  God  with 
joy,  and  even  are  thereby  moved  to  tears,  but  who  turn 
again  to  iniquity  as  soon  as  the  fit  of  weeping  is  past. 
Those  who  despise  to  do  the  words  of  God,  do  not  hear 
them.  Therefore,  beloved  brethren,  carefully  recall  to 
your  mind  your  own  life  ;  then  with  fear  and  trembling 
ponder  on  those  awful  words  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  the 
Eternal  Truth  :  Therefore  you  hear  them  not ,  because  you  are 
not  of  God .  And  what  the  Lord  here  speaks  about  the 
reprobate,  they  themselves  make  the  same  thing  concern¬ 
ing  them  manifest  by  their  evil  deeds.  These  words 
follow  immediately  :  The  fews  therefore  answered  and  said 
to  Him :  Do  not  we  say  well  that  Thou  art  a  Samaritan ,  and 
hast  a  devil  ? 

II.  Now  let  us  hear  what  the  Lord  answered  to  such 
an  insult.  I  have  not  a  devil ,  but  I  honour  My  Father ,  and 
you  have  dishonoured  Me.  The  Lord  said,  I  have  not  a  devil ; 
but  He  did  not  say,  I  am  not  a  Samaritan ,  for  in  one 
sense  He  was  a  Samaritan,  because  the  word  Samaritan 
in  the  Hebrew  language  signifies  ‘a  watcher.’  And 
the  Lord  is  that  Watcher  of  Whom  the  Psalmist  says : 


142 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


Unless  the  Lord  keep  the  city ,  he  watcheth  in  vain  that 
keepeth  it  (Ps.  cxxviii.  2).  He  also  is  the  Watchman 
to  Whom  Isaias  says :  Watchman ,  what  of  the  night  ? 
Watchman ,  what  of  the  night?  (Isa.  xxi.  11.)  Therefore 
the  Lord  said,  I  have  not  a  devil ,  but  not,  I  am  not  a 
Samaritan.  Of  the  two  things  brought  against  Him 
He  denied  one,  but  by  His  silence  admitted  the  other. 
Indeed,  our  Saviour  came  into  this  world  to  watch  over 
the  whole  human  race,  therefore  He  said  nothing  when 
accused  of  being  a  Samaritan,  but  defended  Himself 
against  and  denied  the  unjust  and  wicked  imputation  of 
having  a  devil.  By  the  extraordinary  meekness  shown 
by  our.  Lord  towards  His  enemies  He  puts,  to  shame  our 
pride  and  haughtiness  ;  for,  when  we  receive  the  slightest 
injustice,  we  often  accuse  our  opponents  of  greater  crimes 
than  those  imputed  to  us.  We  do  to  them  whatever  injury 
we  are  able  to,  and  even  threaten  them  with  punishments 
that  are  not  in  our  power.  Now  consider  the  example 
of  patience  given  by  our  Lord  :  the  blackest  calumnies 
are  invented  against  Him  and  He  is  not  angry ;  when 
justifying  Himself  He  never  makes  use  of  an  offensive 
word.  In  truth  He  could  have  answered  the  Jews,  who 
in  such  improper  manner  calumniated  Him,  that  they 
were  themselves  possessed  by  the  devil,  since  they  could 
not  blaspheme  God  without  being  animated  by  the  evil 
spirit.  Yet  He,  Who  is  Truth  itself,  did  not  on  this 
occasion  make  use  of  the  truth  to  defend  Himself.  His 
words  were  spoken  solely  for  giving  testimony  to  the 
truth,  and  not  for  revenging  Himself  on  His  enemies.  By 
this  action  of  the  Son  of  God  we  are  taught  that,  when 
we  are  attacked  by  our  brethren  with  false  accusations, 
we  are  not  to  publish  the  faults  they  are  themselves 
guilty  of,  so  that  passion  should  not  give  to  our  hands 
weapons  wherewith  to  satisfy  our  anger,  instead  of 


FIFTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT ,  OR  PASSION  SUNDAY  143 

punishing  them  in  a  lawful  manner.  And  since  it  is 
well  known  that  those,  who  most  zealously  exert  them¬ 
selves  to  work  for  the  glory  and  intentions  of  God,  are 
very  often  calumniated  by  the  wicked  and  freethinkers, 
our  Lord  wished  to  give  us  in  His  own  person  an 
example  of  patience,  saying  to  the  Jews,  by  whom  He 
was  unjustly  accused  :  I  honour  My  Father ,  but  you  have 
dishonoured  Me .  And  in  order  perfectly  to  instruct  us 
concerning  the  dispositions  of  our  mind  when  we  suffer 
for  justice7  sake  He  added  :  I  seek  not  Mine  own  glory . 
There  is  One  that  seeketh  and  judgeth.  Now  the  Gospel  tells 
us  that  the  Father  hath  given  all  judgment  to  the  Son 
(John  v.  22)  ;  therefore,  when  the  Son,  overwhelmed  with 
insults  and  accusations,  and  without  vindicating  His  own 
honour,  leaves  the  duty  of  revenge  to  His  Father,  He 
wishes  us  to  understand  that  we  are  calmly  to  bear  any 
detractions  or  calumnies  coming  from  our  brethren. 
For  we  see  that  He,  Who  received  from  His  Father  the 
power  to  judge,  did  not  make  use  of  it  then,  to  administer 
justice.  However,  should,  in  spite  of  our  moderation, 
the  malice  of  the  wicked  against  us  increase  from  day  to 
day,  let  us  not  withhold  from  them  the  teachings  of 
the  Divine  doctrine.  On  the  contrary,  let  us  persevere  in 
our  instructing  them  according  to  our  Lord’s  example, 
Who,  in  spite  of  the  insulting  reproaches  of  His  enemies, 
saying  that  He  had  a  devil,  continued  even  with  greater 
zeal  His  kind  and  patient  teaching.  For  immediately 
after  He  added :  Amen ,  amen ,  I  say  to  you  :  If  any  man 
keep  My  word ,  he  shall  not  see  death  for  ever .  As  it  is  certain 
that  the  just  become  more  perfect  by  the  injuries  done  to 
them,  so  it  is  also  true  that  the  wicked  grow  worse 
through  the  kindness  shown  to  them.  We  see,  that  after 
the  kind  exhortations  and  admonitions  addressed  to 
them  by  Jesus,  the  Jews  were  stiU  more  angry,  and  had 


144 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


the  wickedness  to  say  to  His  face  :  Now  we  know  that  Thou 
hast  a  devil .  They  were  spiritually  blind,  and  could  not 
perceive  the  deadly  state  in  which  they  were  through 
their  sins.  But  since  they  considered  temporal  death  as 
the  greatest  of  all  evils,  they  said  to  our  Saviour  : 
A  bvaham  is  dead ,  and  the  prophets ,  and  Thou  sayest :  If  any  man 
keep  My  word ,  he  shall  not  taste  death  for  ever .  By  their 
words  these  Jews  seem  to  have  believed  in  the  Scriptures, 
since  they  recognised  Abraham  and  the  prophets,  and 
honoured  their  memory  ;  yet  the  honour  given  to  His 
servants  by  those  who  do  not  recognise  God  is  neither 
real  nor  true. 

III.  Though  our  Lord  saw  that  the  Jews  tried  their 
utmost  to  oppose  His  doctrine,  He  never  ceased  to  preach, 
the  truth,  and  continued  His  teaching,  for  He  said  to 
them:  Abraham  your  father  rejoiced  that  he  might  see  My 
day ;  he  saw  it  and  was  glad .  That  day  of  the  Lord,  which 
Abraham  really  saw,  was  that  on  which  he  received  into 
his  house  three  Angels  under  the  appearance  of  travellers. 
For  these  three  Angels,  appearing  under  a  human  form, 
represented  to  the  faith  of  Abraham  the  adorable  mystery 
of  the  Blessed  Trinity  which  he  recognised.  He  addressed 
the  Three  present  before  him,  as  if  speaking  only  to  one, 
so  as  to  show  that  in  the  three  Persons  of  the  Holy 
Trinity,  whom  he  adored,  there  was  the  Unity  of  the 
Divine  Nature.  As  to  those  who  keep  their  souls  bowed 
down  to  the  earth,  it  is  in  vain  they  hear  the  doctrine  of 
heaven ;  their  eyes  never  look  upwards  to  gaze  at  it. 
Thus  we  see  that  the  Jews,  with  their  carnal  thoughts, 
had  in  view  only  the  years  of  our  Saviour’s  mortal  life, 
and  said  to  Him  :  Thou  art  not  yet  fifty  years  old ,  and  Thou 
hast  seen  Abraham?  Thereon  our  Lord,  to  raise  them  up 
to  the  comprehension  of  His  Divinity,  and  to  shut  the 
eyes  of  their  bodies,  wherewith  alone  they  looked  at  Him, 


FIFTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT ,  OR  PASSION  SUNDAY  145 

answered:  Amen ,  amen ,  /  sajy  £0  .yow,  before  Abraham  was 
made ,  I  AM.  You  will  notice  that  our  Lord  did  not  say, 
I  was  before  Abraham,  but  before  Abraham  was  made ,  I 
AM,  in  order  to  show  by  this  expression  that  His  Divine 
Nature,  which  is  eternal,  knows  neither  the  past  nor  the 
future,  but  is  always  present.  For  this  reason  God  the 
Almighty,  speaking  to  Moses,  said :  I  am  who  am  ;  then 
added  :  Then  shall  thou  say  to  the  children  of  Israel :  He  who 
is,  hath  sent  Me  to  you  (Exod.  iii.  14).  As  man  Jesus 
Christ  was  by  His  birth  to  come  either  before  or  after 
the  time  of  Abraham.  But,  being  the  Eternal  Truth,  and 
not  subject  to  any  time,  He  could  have  neither  beginning 
nor  end.  Yet,  as  the  unbelieving  Jews  were  not  able  to 
understand  these  eternal  truths,  announced  to  them  by 
the  Redeemer,  They  took  up  stones  to  cast  at  Him,  and  tried 
to  kill  Him  Whom  they  were  unable  to  understand. 

IV.  To  avoid  the  fury  of  the  Jews,  who  were  on  the 
point  of  stoning  Him,  Jesus ,  as  the  Gospel  says,  hid  Him¬ 
self  and  went  out  of  the  temple.  What  ought  to  be  to  you, 
beloved  brethren,  a  motive  of  astonishment,  is  the  fact 
that  our  Saviour  is  seen  escaping  the  persecution  of  His 
enemies,  whose  hands  He  could  have  bound  by  His  mere 
will,  and  whose  lives  He  could  have  taken,  had  He  made 
use  of  His  almighty  power.  Yet,  this  infinitely  good 
God,  Who  had  come  into  this  world  to  suffer  and  to  die, 
would  not  show  the  severity  of  a  judge.  This  was  again 
proved  at  the  time  of  His  Passion,  when  He  said  to  the 
soldiers,  who  had  come  with  Judas  to  apprehend  Him: 

I  am  He  (John  xviii.  5),  and  they  went  backwards  and  fell 
to  the  ground.  Yet,  He  allowed  them  to  take  hold  of  His 
Sacred  Person,  and  He  willingly  submitted  to  all  the 
tortures  they  inflicted  on  Him.  Now,  if  we  ask  why  our 
Lord  hid  Himself,  since,  without  escaping  from  the 
presence  of  His  enemies,  He  could  have  rendered  all 

10 


146 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


their  efforts  powerless,  we  shall  see  that  this  Redeemer 
of  the  world  wished  to  teach  us  an  important  lesson  both 
by  His  example  and  His  words.  His  action  tells  us 
that  even  when  we  are  able  to  scorn  the  attacks  of  our 
enemies,  and  the  injuries  they  try  to  inflict  on  us,  we  are, 
after  His  example,  to  avoid  by  timely  retirement,  the 
wrath  of  their  excited  passions.  St.  Paul,  in  his  Epistle 
to  the  Romans  (ch.  xii.)  repeats  the  same  exhortation. 
Let  us  therefore  carefully  avoid  the  fury  of  our  brethren 
whom  we  see  angry  with  us  ;  let  us  not  rise  against  those 
by  whom  we  are  calumniated,  nor  render  evil  for  evil ; 
but  let  us  be  convinced  by  the  example  given  by  God 
Himself,  that  it  is  more  honourable  to  overcome  all 
insults  and  persecutions  by  flight  and  silence,  than  by 
taking  revenge. 

V.  Yet  the  spirit  of  pride  whispers  into  our  ears  : 
Silence  brings  shame,  when  we  are  attacked  and  do  not 
resist.  When  those,  witnessing  the  affronts  put  upon  us, 
notice  that  we  are  silent,  they  will  not  be  convinced  of 
our  patience,  but  will  imagine  that  in  the  depth  of  our 
conscience  we  confess  ourselves  guilty  of  the  sins 
imputed  to  us.  Thus  speaks  pride.  However,  such 
thoughts  arising  in  our  mind,  and  trying  to  stifle  the 
feelings  of  moderation  inspired  by  patience,  come  from 
our  human  opinion,  and  our  inclination  to  think  more  of 
the  false  honour  of  the  world  and  people’s  opinions,  than 
of  the  esteem  and  approval  of  God,  Who  from  the 
heights  of  heaven  witnesses  our  doings.  This  is  not  the 
way  of  following  Jesus,  for  He  says  :  *  I  seek  not  Mine  own 
glory  ;  there  is  One  that  seeketh  and  judgeth. 

The  words  of  the  Evangelist,  Jesus  hid  Himself  and  went 
out  of  the  temple ,  may  have  yet  another  meaning,  namely, 
that  our  Saviour  was  forsaking  the  Jews,  who  despised 
the  word  of  salvation  announced  to  them,  and  of  which 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT,  OR  PALM  SUNDAY  147 

they  made  no  other  use  than  to  become  more  wicked, 
and  even  to  wish  to  stone  Him.  He  hid  the  truth  before 
them,  since  by  their  pride  and  their  contempt  for  it,  they 
had  become  unworthy  of  His  heavenly  'doctrine.  For 
proud  and  vain  souls,  not  knowing  the  value  of  humility, 
are  abandoned  by  the  Truth.  Yet,  are  there  not  many 
Christians,  perhaps  among  us,  who,  detesting  the  obduracy 
of  the  Jews  who1  were  deaf  to  the  Lord’s  teaching,  are 
just  as  guilty  by  refusing  to  put  into  practice  this  same 
doctrine  of  Jesus  ?  Many  hear  what  our  Redeemer 
commands  us  to  practise  ;  they  recognise  the  Divine 
power  in  His  miracles,  but  they  refuse  to  change  their 
lives  and  thus  to  be  converted.  Jesus  calls  us,  and  we 
do  not  return  to  Him  ;  He  bears  with  us  in  our  sinful 
life,  and  we  abuse  His  patience.  Oh,  my  beloved 
brethren  !  let  us  not  hesitate  to  renounce  our  sinful  ways 
whilst  there  is  yet  time  ;  let  us  take  care  lest  God  be 
tired  of  waiting  for  us,  and,  after  despising  His  infinite 
mercy,  we  fall  into  the  hands  of  His  infinite  justice. 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT,  OR  PALM  SUNDAY. 

Gospel  :  Matt.  xxi.  1-17.  And  when  they  drew  nigh 
to  Jerusalem,  and  were  come  to  Bethphage,  unto  Mount 
Olivet,  then  Jesus  sent  two  disciples,  saying  to  them  : 
Go  ye  into  the  village  that  is  over  against  you,  and 
immediately  you  shall  find  an  ass  tied,  and  a  colt  with 
her j  loose  them  and  bring  them  to  Me.  And  if  any 
man  shall  say  anything  to  you,  say  ye  that  the  Lord 
hath  need  of  them,  and  forthwith  he  will  let  them  go. 
Now,  all  this  was  done  that  it  might  be  fulfilled  which 
was  spoken  by  the  Prophet,  sayigg:  ‘Tell  ye  the 
daughter  of  Sion  :  Behold  thy  king  cometh  to  thee, 
meek,  and  sitting  upon  an  ass,  and  a- colt  the  foal  of  her 


10 — 2 


148  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

that  is  used  to  the  yoke.’  And  the  disciples  going,  did 
as  Jesus  commanded  them.  And  they  brought  the  ass 
and  the  colt,  and  laid  their  garments  upon  them,  and 
made  Him  sit  thereon.  And  a  very  great  multitude 
spread  their  garments  in  the  way  ;  and  others  cut  boughs 
from  the  trees,  and  strewed  them  in  the  way  ;  and  the 
multitudes  that  went  before  and  that  followed,  cried, 
saying :  4  Hosanna  to  the  Son  of  David  :  Blessed  is  He 
that  cometh  in  the  Name  of  the  Lord.  Hosanna  in  the 
highest.’  And  when  He  was  come  to  Jerusalem,  the 
whole  city  was  moved,  saying  :  4  Who  is  this  ?’  And  the 
people  said  :  4  This  is  Jesus,  the  Prophet,  from  Nazareth 
of  Galilee.’  And  Jesus  went  into  the  Temple  of  God, 
and  cast  out  all  them  that  sold  and  bought  in  the 
Temple,  and  overthrew  the  tables  of  the  money-changers, 
and  the  chairs  of  them  that  sold  doves.  And  He  saith 
to  them :  *  My  house  shall  be  called  the  house  of  prayer  ; 
but  you  have  made  it  a  den  of  thieves.’  And  there 
came  to  Him  the  blind  and  the  lame  in  the  Temple,  and 
He  healed  them.  And  the  chief  priests  and  scribes,  seeing 
the  wonderful  things  that  He  did,  and  the  children  crying 
in  the  Temple,  and  saying  :  4  Hosanna  to  the  Son  of 
David,’  were  moved  with  indignation,  and  said  to  Him- : 

4  Hearest  Thou  what  they  say?’  And  Jesus  said  to 
them:  4  Yea,  have  you  never  read:  44  Out  of  the  mouth 
of  infants  and  of  sucklings  thou  hast  perfected  praise  ”  ?’ 
And  leaving  them,  He  went  out  of  the  city  into  Bethania, 
and  remained  there. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AMBROSE,  BISHOP  OF  MILAN. 

Book  ix,,  on  St.  Luke. 

I.  What  a  beautiful  type  is  before  our  eyes  !  Our 
Lord,  on  the  point  of  forsaking  the  Jews,  and  of  taking 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT ,  OR  PALM  SUNDAY  f 49 


His  abode  in  the  hearts  of  the  Gentiles,  goes  up  into  the 
Temple,  thus  indicating  that  He  would  be  adored  by 
them  in  spirit  and  in  truth  ;  that  the  temple  they  were  to 
consecrate  to  Him,  would  not  be  a  building  erected  by 
the  hands  of  men,  but  the  real  Temple  of  the  true  God, 
laid  upon  the  foundation  of  faith.  Thus  our  Lord  pre¬ 
fers  the  Gentiles,  who  would  love  Him,  to  the  Jews,  who 
had  only  hatred  for  Him.  Therefore  He  goes  up  to  the 
Mount  of  Olives,  that  upon  the  heights  of  grace  He  may 
plant  those  young  olive-branches  whose  mother  is  the 
Jerusalem  which  is  above.  And  the  heavenly  Husband¬ 
man  stands  upon  this  holy  mount,  so  that  all  those  whom 
He  planted  in  the  House  of  God  may  be  able  truthfully 
to  say  :  But  I  am  as  a  fruitful  olive-tree  in  the  house  of  God 
(Ps.  li.  10).  Perhaps  that  mountain  signifies  Jesus  Christ 
Himself.  For  what  other  mount  could  bring  forth  such 
fruitful  olive-trees,  not  bending  under  the  weight  of  their 
own  fruit,  but  spiritually  fruitful  with  the  fulness  of  the 
Gentiles  ?  He  also  it  is  by  Whom  and  unto  Whom  we 
go  up  ;  for  He  is  the  Way  in  which  we  walk  ;  He  is  the 
Door  at  which  we  knock,  and  which  opens  to  let  us  enter 
into  the  sanctuary  after  being  made  worthy  to  worship 
Him. 

II.  The  Gospel  also  says  that  the  disciples  went  into 
a  village,  and  that  there  they  found  an  ass  tied  and  a  colt 
with  her.  Neither  could  be  loosed  but  by  the  command 
of  the  Lord  ;  and  it  was  the  hand  of  His  Apostles  that 
loosed  them.  This  was  done  to  indicate  the  great  grace 
imparted  by  our  Lord  to  His  servants,  giving  them  power 
to  loose  from  sin  ;  and  also  to  teach  His  ministers  to 
imitate  the  holiness  of  the  Apostles,  since  they  also  have 
received  the  same  power  to  loose  them  that  are  bound. 
Now,  if  we  consider  the  great  misfortune  of  our  first 
parents  who,  after  their  fall,  were  banished  from  their 


150  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

home  in  Paradise  into  a  village,  we  shall  find  that  those 
who  had  been  cast  out  by  death,  were  again  called  back 
by  the  Giver  of  Life.  For  this  reason  we  read  in  Matthew 
that  there  were  tied  both  an  ass  and  her  colt,  to  give  us 
to  understand  that,  as  man  was  banished  from  Paradise 
in  a  member  of  either  sex,  so  is  his  recall  by  the  Redeemer 
figured  in  animals  of  both  sexes.  The  she-ass  is  a  type 
of  our  sinful  mother,  Eve,  and  the  colt  of  the  multitude 
of  the  Gentiles ;  and  it  was  upon  the  colt  that  Jesus  took 
His  seat.  And  it  is  well  said  that  on  that  colt  no  man  ever 
hath  sitten  (Luke  xix.  30),  because  before  Jesus  Christ 
no  man  ever  called  the  Gentiles  into  the  Church.  And 
when  St.  Mark  (xi.  2)  repeats  the  statement,  You  shall 
find  a  colt ,  upon  which  no  man  yet  hath  sat ,  it  is  to  teach  us 
that  though  the  idolatrous  nations  had  been  until  then 
kept  in  the  darkness  of  error  by  an  unjust  authority,  no 
ruler  had  any  lawful  right  over  them,  because  they  were 
free  by  nature,  though  slaves  by  sin.  For  this  reason  our 
Lord  commanded  His  disciples  to  say  :  The  Lord  hath 
need  of  them  ;  to  give  us  to  understand  that,  though  there 
are  many  rulers  and  masters  in  the  world,  there  is  only 
one  God  and  Lord,  Who  is  the  absolute  Ruler  of  all  His 
creatures. 

III.  St.  Mark  also  says  in  his  Gospel,  that  the  colt 
was  tied  before  the  gate  without ,  in  the  meeting  of  two  ways 
(xi.  4),  to  indicate  that  everyone  who  is  not  Christ’s,  is 
without  the  gate  of  salvation.  Whereas  he  that  is 
Christ’s,  is  not  without,  and  is  not,  like  this  animal, 
standing  in  the  meeting  of  two  ways,  exposed  to  the 
gaze  of  passers-by,  and  having  neither  stable  nor  fodder. 
This  colt  belonged  to  no  special  owner,  and  its  condition 
was  most  pitiable,  because  it  was  ready  to  bear  the  yoke 
of  the  first  comer,  and  to  be  the  slave  of  many,  having 
no  special  master.  Consider  also  the  difference  between 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT ,  OR  PALM  SUNDAY  151 

Jesus  and  the  rulers  of  the  world.  These  latter  make 
use  of  fetters  and  chains  to  secure  their  possessions, 
whilst  Jesus  Christ,  as  seen  by  the  command  given  to 
His  Apostles,  looses  and  delivers  those  who  serve  Him. 
His  blessings  and  gifts  are  more  powerful  to  attach  us  to 
Him  than  the  chains  by  which  we  are  bound.  We  also 
notice  that  the  disciples  sent  by  our  Lord  to  bring  to  Him 
the  ass  and  the  colt,  spoke  not  by  their  own  authority, 
but  answered  the  owner  in  the  manner  commanded  by 
our  Lord  Himself.  By  this  also  we  understand  that  the 
Apostles  announced  the  true  faith  to  the  pagan  nations 
not  by  their  own  words,  but  by  the  Word  of  God  ;  not 
in  their  own  name,  but  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ ;  and 
also  that  the  powers  of  darkness,  keeping  the  nations  in 
idolatry,  were  forced  to  restore  them  by  the  command  of 
God  announced  to  them  by  His  ambassadors.  When, 
lastly,  we  see  the  Apostles  spread  their  garments  in  the 
way  under  the  feet  of  Je'sus,  we  learn  thereby  that  prac¬ 
tice  of  edifying  works  must  needs  precede  the  preaching 
of  the  Gospel.  Garments,  according  to  Holy  Scripture, 
often  signify  virtues,  which  are  powerful  means  to  soften 
the  hearts  of  unbelievers  to  whom  the  tenets  of  faith  are 
preached.  These  virtues  also  make  straight  the  path 
leading  to  the  minds  of  those  whom  the  apostolic 
labourers .  endeavour  to  convert.  Let  us  not  think  that 
the  King  of  the  whole  world  had  any  other  object  in 
view  at  His  triumphal  entry  into  Jerusalem,  than  to 
announce,  by  the  exterior  decorations  covering  the  way, 
His  wish  to  enrich  our  souls  with  His  gifts,  and  to  erect 
His  throne  in  our  hearts.  It  was  a  sign  of  His  triumph, 
and  of  the  loving  dominion  He  would  establish  in  all 
these  souls,  after  overcoming  their  passions  and  winning 
for  Himself  their  affections.  Happy,  therefore,  the 
Christian  who  receives  into  his  heart  this  great  and 


152 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


peaceful  Conqueror!  Happy  also  he  whose  tongue  is 
ruled  by  this  Divine  Word. 

IV.  However,  beloved  brethren,  what  bridle  will  be 
able  to  keep  our  tongue  in  check,  or  to  loose  it  for 
speaking  at  the  opportune  moment  ?  St.  Paul  gives  the 
answer ;  for  he  asked  the  Ephesians  to  continue  their 
prayers  and  supplications  to  God,  and  for  me ,  that  speech 
may  he  given  to  me,  that  I  may  open  my  mouth  with  confidence , 
to  make  known  the  mystery  of  the  Gospel  (Eph.  vi.  19).  The 
word  of  the  Lord,  that  is  heard  in  the  innermost  of  our 
heart,  is  the  bridle  governing  us,  and  the  goad  exciting 
our  souls,  and  against  which  it  is  hard  to  kick,  as  Jesus 
said  to  His  Apostle,  After  learning  from  this  Apostle  to 
obey  the  grace  of  God,  to  accept  the  goad  and  bear  His 
yoke,  let  us  also  learn  from  the  Prophet  how  to  bridle 
our  tongue ;  for  the  science  of  keeping  silent  is  a  virtue 
rarer  than  that  of  speaking  at  the  right  time.  No  one  will 
be  more  able  to  teach  us  this  science  than  the  Prophet 
himself,  who  set  a  guard  to  his  mouth,  when  sinners  stood 
against  him  ;  who  was  dumb,  and  was  humbled,  and 
ready  for  the  scourges  sent  by  Providence  (Ps.  xxxviii.). 
Learn,  therefore,  to  imitate  the  example  given  by  the 
Man-God  ;  learn  to  bear  Jesus  Christ,  Who  has  borne 
you,  carrying  you  back  to  the  fold,  when  you  had  gone 
astray  ;  learn  gladly  to  submit  to  the  yoke  of  the  Re¬ 
deemer,  that  you  may  become  the  rulers  of  the  world. 
But  no  one  can  boast  of  bearing  Jesus  Christ,  unless  he 
be  able  to  say  with  the  Prophet :  I  am  become  miserable , 
and  1  am  bound  down  even  to  the  end;  I  am  afflicted  and 
humbled  exceedingly ;  I  roared  with  the  groaning  of  my  heart 
(Ps.  xxxvii.  7,  9).  In  order  never  to  leave  the  right  and 
straight  path,  you  must  step  upon  the  garments  spread 
by  the  disciples  on  the  way  of  the  Redeemer ;  you  must 
be  careful  not  to  soil  your  feet — that  is,  your  works,  with 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  IN  LENT ,  OR  PALM  SUNDAY  153 

the  filth  of  the  world ;  and  you  must  follow  the  road 
made  straight  for  you  by  the  Prophets.  Thus,  those  who 
went  before  our  Lord  on  His  entry  into  the  city,  spread 
their  garments  in  the  way,  to  point  out  to  the  Gentiles 
the  road  to  be  taken  by  them.  Thus,  also,  the  Apostles 
reddened  this  road  of  salvation  with  their  own  blood,  to 
guide  you  and  make  your  steps  sure  on  that  road.  How¬ 
ever,  the  meaning  we  give  to  these  words  does  not  hinder 
us  from  saying  that  the  Gentiles,  typified  by  the  colt 
stepping  upon  the  garments  of  the  Jewish  people,  have 
already  begun  to  take  possession  of  the  inheritance 
destined  by  God  for  them,  and  of  which  the  Jews  made 
themselves  unworthy. 

V.  It  would,  perhaps,  be  a  useless  question  to  inquire 
about  the  meaning  of  the  branches  cut  off  the  trees  and 
strewed  in  the  way,  since  they  would  hinder  the  progress 
of  the  passers-by  rather  than  smooth  their  path.  But 
we  are  told  by  the  Lord  of  the  whole  world,  whose  Provi¬ 
dence  governs  the  universe,  that  the  axe  was  already  laid 
to  the  root  of  the  trees,  to  cut  down  every  tree  not  yield¬ 
ing  good  fruit.  We  see  this  fulfilled  at -the  coming  of  the 
Saviour  of  the  world,  by  Whom  the  pride  of  the  Gentiles 
was  trodden  under  foot  by  being  subjected  to  the  yoke  of 
His  Gospel.  On  the  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  these  con¬ 
verted  pagans  founded  their  glory,  and,  treading  on  their 
pride,  followed  Him.  These  once  idolatrous  nations,  now 
renewed  and  animated  by  the  Spirit,  are,  so  to  speak, 
new  branches  bringing  forth  the  fruit  of  life  on  a  stem 
that  formerly  seemed  unfruitful.  St.  Luke  justly  remarks 
that,  when  He  was  now  coming  near  the  descent  of  Mount  Olivet 
the  whole  multitude  of  His  disciples  began  with  joy  to  praise 
God  with  a  loud  voice ,  for  all  the  mighty  works  they  had  seen 
(Luke  xix.  37),  thus  testifying  that  the  great  mystery 
of  salvation  was  going  to  be  fulfilled  by  this  Redeemer 


154 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


sent  from  heaven.  These  people  acknowledged  in  the 
Person  of  Jesus  Christ  their  God  and  King  ;  they  re¬ 
called  to  mind  the  words  of  the  Prophet  glorifying  the 
Son  of  God,  and  they  recognised  Him  as  the  Saviour  of 
the  House  of  Israel,  for  Whom  they  had  been  waiting  so 
long.  But,  since  the  ungrateful  nation  of  the  Jews,  who 
were  soon  to  crucify  Him,  gave  beforehand  testimony  to 
His  Divinity,  they  pronounced  against  themselves  the 
sentence  of  damnation,  because  exteriorly  they  recog¬ 
nised  the  God  of  truth,  and  yet  in  their  hearts  the 
betrayed  and  condemned  Him. 


GOOD  FRIDAY. 

The  Passion  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  according 
to  St.  John  xviii.  and  xix. 

At  that  time :  Jesus  went  forthwith  His  disciples  over  the 
brook  Cedron-,  where  there  was  a  garden,  into  which  He 
entered  with  His  disciples.  Now  Judas  also,  who  be¬ 
trayed  Him,  knew  the  place,  because  Jesus  had  often 
resorted  thither,  together  with  His  disciples.  Judas, 
therefore,  'having  received  a  band  of  soldiers  and  servants 
from  the  chief  priests  and  the  Pharisees,  cometh  thither 
with  lanterns  and  torches  and  weapons.  Jesus,  therefore, 
knowing  all  things  that  should  come  upon  Him,  went 
forth  and  said  to  them:  ‘Whom  seek  ye?’  They 
answered  Him:  ‘Jesus  of  Nazareth.’  Jesus  saith  to 
them  :  ‘  I  am  He.’  And  Judas  also,  who  betrayed  Him, 
stood  with  them.  As  soon,  therefore,  as  He  had  said  to 
them,  ‘  I  am  He/  they  went  backward,  and  fell  to  the 
ground.  Again,  therefore,  He  asked  them  :  *  Whom  seek 
ye?’  And  they  said:  ‘Jesus  of  Nazareth.’  Jesus 
answered :  ‘  I  have  told  you  that  I  am  He  ;  if,  therefore, 


GOOD  FRIDAY 


T55 

you  seek  Me,  let  these  go  their  way,  that  the  word  might 
be  fulfilled,  which  He  said  :  “  Of  them  whom  Thou  hast 
given  Me  l  have  not  lost  any  one.”  *  Then  Simon  Peter, 
having  a  sword,  drew  it,  and  struck  the  servant  of  the 
high  priest,  and  cut  off  his  right  ear.  And  the  name  of 
the  servant  was  Malchus.  Jesus  therefore  said  to  Peter : 
‘  Put  up  thy  sword  into  the  scabbard.  The  chalice 
which  My  Father  hath  given  me,  shall  I  not  drink  it  ?’ 
Then  the  band  and  the  tribune  and  the  servants  of  the 
Jews  took  Jesus,  and  bound  Him,  and  led  Him  away  to 
Annas  first,  for  he  was  father-in-law  to  Caiphas,  who  was 
the  high  priest  of  that  year.  Now,  Caiphas  was  he  who 
had  given  the  counsel  to  the  Jews,  that  it  was  expedient 
that  one  man  should  die  for  the  people.  And  Simon 
Peter  followed  Jesus,  and  so  did  another  disciple,  and 
that  disciple  was  known  to  the  high  priest,  and  went  in 
with  Jesus  into  the  court  of  the  high  priest.  But  Peter 
stood  at  the  door  without.  The  other  disciple,  therefore, 
who  was  known  to  the  high  priest,  went  out  and  spoke  to 
the  portress,  and  brought  in  Peter.  The  maid,  therefore, 
that  was  portress,  saith  to  Peter  :  ‘  Art  not  thou  also  one 
of  this  Man’s  disciples  ?’  He  saith  :  ‘  I  am  not.’  Now, 
the  servants  and  ministers  stood  at  a  fire  of  coals,  because 
it  was  cold,  and  warmed  themselves,  and  with  them  was 
Peter  also  standing,  and  warming  himself.  The  high 
priest,  therefore,  asked  Jesus  of  His  disciples,  and  of  His 
doctrine.  Jesus  answered  him  :  *  I  have  spoken  openly 
to  the  world ;  I  have  always  taught  in  the  synagogue 
and  in  the  temple,  whither  all  the  Jews  resort,  and  in 
secret  I  have  spoken  nothing.  Why  askest  thou  Me  ? 
Ask  them  who  have  heard  what  I  have  spoken  to  them. 
Behold,  they  know  what  things  I  have  said.’  And  when 
He  had  said  these  things,  one  of  the  officers  standing  by 
gave  Jesus  a  blow,  saying:  ‘Answerest  Thou  the  high 


156  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

priest  so  ?’  Jesus  answered  him :  ‘  If  I  have  spoken 
evil,  give  testimony  of  the  evil,  but  if  well,  why  strikest 
thou  Me?’  And  Annas  sent  Him  bound  to  Caiphas,  the 
high  priest.  And  Simon  Peter  was  standing,  and  warming 
himself.  They  said,  therefore,  to  him  :  *  Art  not  thou 
also  one  of  His  disciples  ?’  He  denied  it,  and  said  :  1 1 
am  not.’  One  of  the  servants  of  the  high  priest  (a  kins¬ 
man  to  him  whose  ear  Peter  cut  off)  saith  to  him :  ‘  Did 
not  I  see  thee  in  the  garden  with  Him  ?’  Then  Peter 
again  denied,  and  immediately  the  cock  crew.  Then  they 
led  Jesus  from  Caiphas  to  the  governor’s  hall.  And  it 
was  morning,  and  they  went  not.  into  the  hall,  that  they 
might  not  be  defiled,  but  that  they  might  eat  the  pasch. 
Pilate  therefore  went  out  to  them,  and  said :  1  What 
accusation  bring  you  against  this  Man  ?’  They  answered 
and  said  to  him  :  ‘  If  He  were  not  a  malefactor,  we  would 
not  have  delivered  Him  up  to  thee.’  Pilate  then  said  to 
them  :  '  Take  Him  you,  and  judge  Him  according  to 
your  law.’  The  Jews  therefore  said  to  him  :  ‘  It  is  not 
lawful  for  us  to  put  any  man  to  death.’  That  the  word  of 
Jesus  might  be  fulfilled,  which  He  said,  signifying  what 
manner  of  death  He  should  die.  Pilate  therefore  went 
into  the  hall  again,  and  called  Jesus,  and  said  to  Him  : 
‘Art  Thou  the  King  of  the  Jews?’  Jesus  answered: 
‘  Sayest  thou  this  thing  of  thyself,  or  have  others  told  it 
thee  of  Me  ?’  Pilate  answered  :  ‘  Am  I  a  Jew  ?  Thy 
own  nation  and  the  chief  priests  have  delivered  Thee  up 
to  me.  What  hast  Thou  done  ?’  Jesus  answered  :  ‘  My 
kingdom  is  not  of  this  world.  If  my  kingdom  were  of 
this  world  My  servants  would  certainly  strive  that  I 
should  not  be  delivered  to  the  Jews :  but  now  My 
kingdom  is  not  from  hence.’  Pilate  therefore  said  to 
Him:  ‘Art  Thou  a  King,  then?’  Jesus  answered: 

*  Thou  sayest  that  I  am  a  King.  For  this  was  I  born, 


GOOD  FRIDA  Y 


157 

and  for  this  came  I  into  the  world,  that  I  should  give 
testimony  to  the  truth.  Everyone  that  is  of  the  truth 
heareth  My  voice.’  Pilate  saith  to  Him :  *  What  is 
truth  ?*  And  when  he  had  said  this,  he  went  out  again 
to  the  Jews,  and  said  to  them :  ‘  I  find  no  cause  in 
Him ;  but  you  have  a  custom  that  I  should  release  one 
unto  you  at  the  pasch  :  will  you,  therefore,  that  I  release 
unto  you  the  King  of  the  Jews?’  Then  cried  they  all, 
saying  :  ‘  Not  this  man,  but  Barabbas.’  Now  Barabbas 
was  a  robber.  Then,  therefore,  Pilate  took  Jesus  and 
scourged  Him,  and  the  soldiers,  platting  a  crown  of 
thorns,  put  it  upon  His  head,  and  they  put  on  Him  a 
purple  garment.  And  they  came  to  Him,  and  said : 
‘  Hail,  King  of  the  Jews  !’  And  they  gave  Him  blows. 
Pilate  therefore  went  forth  again,  and  saith  to  them : 
‘  Behold,  I  bring  Him  forth  unto  you,  that  ye  may  know 
that  I  find  no  cause  in  Him.*  Jesus  therefore  came  forth 
bearing  the  crown  of  thorns  and  the  purple  garment. 
And  he  saith  to  them  :  ‘  Behold  the  Man/  When  the 
chief  priests,  therefore,  and  the  servants'  had  seen  Him, 
they  cried  out,  saying:  ‘Crucify  Him!  crucify  Him!’ 
Pilate  saith  to  them  :  ‘  Take  Him  you,  and  crucify  Him, 
for  I  find  no  cause  in  Him.’  The  Jews  answered  him  : 

*  We  have  a  law,  and  according  to  the  law  He  ought  to 
die,  because  He  made  Himself  the  Son  of  God.  When 
Pilate,  therefore,  had  heard  this  saying,  he  feared  the 
more.  And  he  entered  into  the  hall  again,  and  he  said  to 
Jesus:  ‘Whence  art  Thou?’  But  Jesus  gave  him  no 
answer.  Pilate  therefore  saith  to  Him  :  ‘  Speakest  Thou 
not  to  me  ?  Knowest  Thou  nof  that  I  have  the  power  to 
crucify  Thee,  and  I  have  the  power  to  release  Thee  ?’  Jesus 
answered  :  ‘  Thou  should’ st  not  have  any  power  against 
Me  unless  it  were  given  thee  from  above.  Therefore, 
he  that  hath  delivered  Me  to  thee  hath  the  greater  sin.* 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


t58 

And  from  thenceforth  Pilate  sought  to  release  Him.  But 
the  Jews  cried  out,  saying  :  ‘  If  thou  release  this  Man 
thou  art  not  Caesar’s  friend.  For  whosoever  makes  him¬ 
self  a  King,  speaketh  against  Caesar.’  Now,  when  Pilate 
had  heard  these  words,  he  brought  Jesus  forth,  and  sat 
down  in  the  judgment-seat,  in  the  place  that  is  called 
Lithostrotos,  and  in  Hebrew,  Gabbatha.  And  it  was  the 
parasceve  of  the  pasch,  about  the  sixth  hour.  And  he 
saith  to  the  Jews  :  ‘  Behold  your  King.’  But  they  cried 
out :  6  Away  with  Him ;  away  with  Him !  Crucify 
Him!’  Pilate  saith  to  them:  ‘Shall  I  crucify  your 
King  ?’  The  chief  priests  answered  :  ‘We  have  no  King 
but  Caesar.’  Then,  therefore,  he  delivered  Him  to  them 
to  be  crucified.  And  they  took  Jesus,  and  led  Him 
forth  ;  and  bearing  His  own  cross,  He  went  forth  to  that 
place  which  is  called  Calvary,  but  in  Hebrew,  Golgotha: 
where  they  crucified  Him,  and  with  Him  two  others,  one 
on  each  side,  and  Jesus  in  the  midst.  And  Pilate  wrote 
a  title  also,  and  he  put  it  upon  the  cross,  and  the  writing 
was:  ‘Jesus  of  Nazareth,  the  King  of  the  Jews.’ 
This  title,  therefore,  many  of  the  Jews  did  read,  because 
the  place  where  Jesus  was  crucified  was  nigh  to  the  city; 
and  it  was  written  in  Hebrew,  in  Greek,  and  in  Latin. 
Then  the  chief  priests  of  the  Jews  said  to  Pilate  :  ‘  Write 
not,  “  The  King  of  the  Jews,”  but  that  He  said  :  “  I  am 
the  King  of  the  Jews.’”  Pilate  answered:  ‘What  I 
have  written,  I  have  written.’  Then  the  soldiers,  when 
they  had  crucified  Him,  took  His  garments  (and  they 
made  four  parts,  to  every  soldier  a  part),  and  also  His 
coat.  Now,  the  coat  was  without  seam,  woven  from  the 
top  throughout.  They  said  then  one  to  another  :  ‘  Let 
us  not  cut  it,  but  let  us  cast  lots  for  it,  whose  it  shall  be;’ 
that  the  Scripture  might  be  fulfilled,  saying  : .  ‘  They 
have  parted  My  garments  among  them,  and  upon  My 


GOOD  FRIDAY 


159 


vesture  they  have  cast  lots/  And  the  soldiers  indeed 
did  these  things. 

Now,  there  stood  by  the  cross  of  Jesus  His  mother 
and  His  mother’s  sister,  Mary  of  Cleophas  and  Mary 
Magdalene.  When  Jesus,  therefore,  had  seen  His  mother 
and  the  disciple  standing,  whom  He  loved,  He  saith  to 
His  mother  :  4  Woman,  behold  thy  son.’  After  that,  He 
saith  to  the  disciple :  ‘  Behold  thy  mother.’  And  from 
that  hour,  the  disciple  took  her  to  his  own.  Afterwards, 
Jesus  knowing  that  all  things  were  now  accomplished, 
that  the  Scripture  might  be  fulfilled,  said :  4 1  thirst.’ 
Now  there  was  a  vessel  set  there  full  of  vinegar,  and 
they,  putting  a  sponge  full  of  vinegar  about  hyssop,  put  it 
to  His  mouth.  Jesus  therefore,  when  He  had  taken 
the  vinegar,  said  :  4  It  is  consummated.’  And,  bowing 
His  head,  He  gave  up  the  ghost.  (Here  all  kneel  and 
pause.)  Then  the  Jews,  because  it  was  parasceve,  that 
the  bodies  might  not  remain  upon  the  cross  on  the 
Sabbath-day  (for  that  was  a  great  Sabbath-day),  besought 
Pilate  that  their  legs  might  be  broken,  and  that  they 
might  be  taken  away.  The  soldiers  therefore  came,  and 
they  broke  the  legs  of  the  first  and  of  the  other  that  was 
crucified  with  Him.  But  after  they  were  come  to  Jesus, 
when  they  saw  that  He  was  already  dead,  they  did  not 
break  His  legs,  but  one  of  the  soldiers  opened  His  side 
with  a  spear,  and  immediately  there  came  out  blood  and 
water.  And  he  that  saw  it  gave  testimony,  and  his  testi¬ 
mony  is  true,  that  you  also  may  believe.  For  these 
things  were  done  that  the  Scripture  might  be  fulfilled  : 
4  You  shall  not  break  a  bone  of  Him.’  And  again  another 
Scripture  sayeth  :  4  They  shall  look  on. Him  they  pierced.’ 
And  after  these  things,  Joseph  of  Arimathea  (because  he 
was  a  disciple  of  Jesus,  but  secretly,  for  fear  of  the  Jews) 
besought  Pilate  that  he  might  take  away  the  body  of 


i6o 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


Jesus.  And  Nicodemus  also  came,  he  who  at  first  came 
to  Jesus  by  night,  bringing  a  mixture  of  myrrh  and  aloes, 
about  a  hundred  pounds  weight.  They  took,  therefore, 
the  body  of  Jesus,  and  bound  it  in  linen  cloths,  with  the 
spices,  as  the  manner  of  the  Jews  is  to  bury.  Now  there 
was  a  garden  in  the  place  where  He  was  crucified,  and 
in  the  garden  a  new  sepulchre,  wherein  no  man  yet  had 
been  laid.  There,  therefore,  because  of  the  parasceve  of 
the  Jews,  they  laid  Jesus,  because  the  sepulchre  was  nigh 
at  hand. 


HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Tract  ii8,  119,  etc. 

I.  When  Pilate  had  judged  and  condemned  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  at  his  judgment -seat,  they  took  Him  about 
the  sixth  hour,  and  led  Him  forth  ;  and  bearing  His  own 
cross ,  He  went  forth  to  that  place  which  is  called  Calvary ,  but 
in  Hebrew  Golgotha ,  where  they  crucified  Him .  He  was 
going,  therefore,  to  the  place  where  He  was  to  be  cruci¬ 
fied.  Jesus  bearing  His  own  cross .  A  great  spectacle! 
But  then  to  impiety  a  great  sport  to  look  upon,  to  piety 
an  exceedingly  great  mystery  !  Impiety  sees  in  it  a  great 
display  of  ignominy,  piety  a  great  strengthening  of  faith. 
Impiety  looks  on,  and  laughs  at  a  king  bearing,  instead 
of  the  sceptre  of  sovereignty,  the  wood  of  the  punish¬ 
ment  ;  piety  looks  on,  and  sees  the  King  bearing  that 
cross  for  Himself,  to  be  fixed  thereon,  which  He  would 
thereafter  fix  even  on  the  brows  of  kings.  An  object  of 
contempt  in  the  eyes  of  the  impious,  yet  the  same  thing 
in  which  later  on  the  hearts  of  the  Saints  will  glory. 
Thus  to  St.  Paul,  who  one  day  will  say,  God  forbid  that  I 
should  glory  but  in  the  cross  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
(Gal.  vi.  14),  the  Lord  commanded  that  very  cross  by 


GOOD  FRIDA  Y 


1 6 1 

bearing  it  on  His  shoulders  ;  and  for  that  candle,  which 
was  to  be  lighted  and  not  to  be  put  under  a  bushel,  the 
Lord  bore  the  candlestick. 

II.  The  human  race  was  lost  by  sin ;  for  all  men, 
coming  from  Adam,  had  sinned  in  him.  One  alone  was 
born  without  sin,  and  He  delivered  from  the  yoke  of  sin. 
He  was  made  man  in  order  to  heal  our  wounds  inflicted 
by  sin.  The  Jews  were  as  sick  as  all  other  men  in  the 
world,  yet  their  pride  made  them  believe  that  they  were 
not  in  need  of  the  physician  ;  and  their  disease  was  so 
much  the  more  incurable,  as  their  pride,  by  which  it  was 
caused,  led  them  to  despise  Him  who  had  come  to  cure 
it.  But  they  were  not  contented  with  despising'  Him  ; 
they  even  put  Him  to  death.  Yet  at  the  very  time  they 
took  His  life  He  fulfilled  for  them  the  duties  of  a 
Physician.  They  struck  Him,  and  He  cured  them.  He 
felt  the  effects  of  their  madness,  but  He  abandoned  not 
the  sick.  The  Jews  surrounded  Jesus  Christ ;  they  bound 
Him  with  ropes,  buffeted  Him,  struck  Him  with  a  reed, 
overwhelmed  Him  with  insults  and  blasphemies  ;  lastly, 
they  asked  Him  juridical  questions,  condemned  Him,  and 
nailed  Him  to  the  cross;  yet  He  still  remained  their 
Physician.  You  have  seen  the  character  of  the  Jews  in 
their  madness,  now  consider  the  character  of  their 
Physician.  Father ,  He  cried  out,  forgive  them ,  for  they 
know  not  what  they  do  (Luke  xxiii.  34).  Blinded  by  their 
rage  and  envy,  they  shed  the  blood,  of  their  Physician, 
and  the  Physician  shed  His  own  blood  to  cure  them  of 
their  blindness  and  fury  ;  and  in  that  intention  that  His 
blood  might  flow  for  them,  He  cried  out :  Father,  forgive 
them ,  for  they  know  not  what  they  do. 

III.  And  Jesus,  knowing  that  all  things  were  now 
accomplished,  that  the  Scripture  might  be  fulfilled,  said  : 

I  thirst .  The  Divinity  of  Jesus  Christ  was  hidden  under 


11 


[62 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


the  veil  of  His  humanity.  This  humanity  suffered  all 
the  insults  and  mockery  of  the  Jews,  whilst  His  Divinity 
allowed  free  scope  to  their  fury.  He  saw,  then,  that  all 
things  were  finished ;  that  no  more  required  to  be  done 
before  He  should  receive  the  vinegar  and  give  up  the 
ghost ;  and  that  this  also  might  be  accomplished  what 
was  foretold  in  the  Scripture  :  A  nd  in  My  thirst  they  gave 
Me  vinegar  to  drink  (Ps.  lxviii.  22).  He  said,  I  thirst ,  as 
if  it  were,  One  thing  you  have  left  undone ;  give  what 
you  -are.  For  the  Jews  were  themselves  the  vinegar, 
degenerated  as  they  were  from  the  wTine  of  the  Patriarchs 
and  Prophets,  and  filled  like  a  full  vessel  with  the  wicked¬ 
ness  of  this  world.  This  godless  people  did  all  these 
things,  and  a  compassionate  Christ  suffered  them.  This 
blinded  people  knew  not  what  they  were  doing  ;  but  Jesus 
knew  what  was  done,  and  why  it  was  done ;  and  He 
wrought  what  was  good  through  those  who  were  doing 
what  was  evil.  When  Jesus ,  therefore ,  had  taken  the  vinegar , 
He  said  :  It  is  consummated.  What  was  finished,  save  all 
that  the  prophecies  had  foretold  so  long  before  ?  Then, 
because  nothing  remained  that  yet  was  to  be  done  before 
He  died,  as  He  had  the  power  to  lay  down  His  life,  and 
the  power  to  take  it  up  again  ;  now  that  all  was  accom¬ 
plished,  for  the  accomplishment  of  which  He  was  waiting, 
He  bowed  His  head  and  gave  up  the  ghost .  Who  so  sleeps 
when  he  will,  as  Jesus  died  when  He  pleased  ?  Who  so 
lays  aside  his  garment  when  he  will,  as  He  put  off  His 
flesh  when  He  would  ?  What  traveller  departs  from  a 
place  when  he  pleases,  as  He  departed  this  life  when  He 
pleased  ?  Therefore,  what  must  we  hope  or  fear  to  find 
His  power  as  a  Judge,  if  it  was  so  great  when  He  died  ? 


EASTER  SUNDAY 


163 


EASTER  SUNDAY. 

Gospel:  Mark  xvi.  1-7.  At  that  time:  Mary  Magdalen* 
and  Mary,  the  mother  of  James,  and  Salome  brought 
sweet  spices,  that  coming,  they  might  anoint  Jesus.  And 
very  early  in  the  morning,  the  first  day  of  the  week,  they 
come  to  the  sepulchre,  the  sun  being  now  risen.  And 
they  said  one  to  another  :  Who  shall  roll  us  back  the 
stone  from  the  door  of  the  sepulchre  ?  And  looking, 
they  saw  the  stone  rolled  back.  For  it  was  very  great. 
And  entering  into  the  sepulchre,  they  saw  a  young  man 
sitting  on  the  right  side,  clothed  with  a  white  robe  ;  and 
they  were  astonished.  Who  saith  to  them :  Be  not 
affrighted;  you  seek  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  Who  was  cruci¬ 
fied  ;  He  is  risen,  He  is  not  here  ;  behold  the  place  where 
they  laid  Him.  But  go,  tell  His  disciples  and  Peter  that 
He  goeth  before  you  into  Galilee ;  there  you  shall  see 
Him,  as  He  told  you. 


HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
CHURCH  OF  THE  BLESSED  VIRGIN  MARY  ON  EASTER 
SUNDAY. 

Twenty-first  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

* 

I.  You  have  heard,  beloved  brethren,  the  deed  of  the 
holy  women  who  followed  our  Lord,  how  they  brought 
sweet  spices  to  His  sepulchre,  and,  having  loved  Him 
while  He  was  still  alive,  they  still  followed  Him  with 
careful  tenderness  now  that  He  was  dead.  But,  what 
these  holy  women  did,  points  to  something  which  is  to  be 
done  in  the  holy  Church.  And  it  behoves  us  well  to  give 
ear  to  what  they  did,  that  we  may  afterwards  consider 
with  ourselves  what  we  must  do  after  their  example. 
We  also,  believing  in  Him  Who  is  dead,  we  come  to  His 


11 — 2 


164 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


sepulchre  bearing  sweet  spices,  if  we  seek  Him  with  the 
savour  of  pious  living  and  the  fragrant  odour  of  good 
works.  These  women,  when  they  brought  spices,  saw  a 
vision  of  angels,  and  those  souls  who  are  moved  by  the 
pious  desire  to  seek  the  Lord  with  the  good  odour  of 
holy  lives,  will  see  the  countrymen  of  our  Fatherland 
that  is  above. 

II.  If  we  inquire  about  the  mystery  contained  in  the 
fact  of  the  Angel  who,  appearing  to  the  holy  women, 
sat  on  the  right  side ,  we  shall  find  that  by  the  left  side  is 
meant  the  life  which  now  is,  and  life  everlasting  by  the 
right  side.  For  in  the  Book  of  the  Canticles  it  is  said  of 
the  Bridegroom  :  His  left  hand  is  under  my  head,  and  His 
right  hand  shall  embrace  me  (Cant.  ii.  6).  Since,  therefore, 
our  Redeemer  had  passed  from  the  corruption  of  this  life, 
the  Angel,  who  told  that  His  eternal  life  was  come,  sat 
becomingly  on  the  right  side.  They  saw  him  clothed 
with  a  white  robe,  for  he  announced  the  joy  of  this  our 
great  solemnity,  and  the  shining  whiteness  of  his  raiment 
told  of  the  brightness  of  this  our  holy  festival.  Of  ours, 
did  I  say  ?  or  of  his  ?  But,  if  we  speak  the  truth,  we 
must  acknowledge  that  it  is  both  his  and  ours.  The 
Resurrection  of  our  Lord  is  a  festival  of  gladness  for  us, 
since  we  now  know  that  we  shall  not  die  for  ever ;  and 
for  the  angels  also  it  is  a  festival  of  joy,  for  they  now 
know  that  we  are  called  to  complete  their  number  in 
heaven. 

III.  Therefore,  on  this  glad  festival,  which  is  both  his 
and  ours,  the  Angel  appeared  in  a  white  robe.  For  as 
the  Lord,  rising  again  from  the  dead,  leads  us  to  the 
eternal  dwellings  above,  He  repairs  the  breaches  or  gaps 
of  the  heavenly  Fatherland.  But  what  is  the  meaning 
of  these  words  spoken  by  the  Angel  to  the  women  who 
had  come  to  the  sepulchre :  Be  not  affrighted  ?  Is  it  not 


EASTER  SUNDAY 


165 


as  though  he  had  said  openly  :  Let  them  fear  who  love 
not  the  coming  of  the  heavenly  citizens  ;  let  them  be 
affrighted  who  are  so  burdened  by  fleshly  lusts,  that  they 
despair  ever  to  be  joined  to  their  company.  But  as  to 
you,  why  do  ye  fear,  since  seeing  us  you  only  see  your 
fellow-citizens  ?  Thus  also  St.  Matthew,  describing  the 
appearance  of  the  Angel,  says  :  His  countenance  was  as 
lightning ,  and  his  raiment  as  snow  (Matt,  xxviii.  3).  The 
lightning  speaks  of  fear  and  terror,  *the  snow  of  the 
brilliant  whiteness  of  rejoicing.  Since  God  the  Almighty 
shows  Himself  terrible  to  sinners,  but  at  the  same  time 
well  pleased  with  good  and  pious  souls,  it  was  but  right 
that  the  Angel,  who  had  been  sent  by  Him  to  give  testi¬ 
mony  to  His  Resurrection,  should  inspire  some  with  fear 
and  terror  by  the  lightning,  and  others  with  confidence 
and  hope  by  His  garment.  God  Himself  wished  to 
convey  to  us  this  meaning,  for  He  guided  the  Israelites 
through  the  desert  by  a  pillar  of  fire  in  the  night  and  a 
cloud  during  the  day  (Exod.  xiii.).  For  the  life  of  the 
just  may  be  compared  to  daylight,  and  that  of  the  sinner 
to  a  dark  night.  Thus  the  pillar  of  fire  is  to  inspire 
sinners  with  fear,  whilst  the  just,  wandering  in  the  light 
of  the  day,  see  a  cloud  which  fills  them  with  hope  and 
security.  St.  Paul,  writing  to  converted  sinners,  says  : 
You  were  heretofore  darkness ,  but  now  light  in  the  Lord 
(Eph.  v.  8).  Lastly,  all  this  will  be  accomplished  by  the 
Lord  on  the  day  of  His  wrath,  when  His  loving  coun¬ 
tenance  will  shine  on  the  just,  while  the  terror  of  His 
justice  will  crush  the  wicked. 

IV.  You  seek  Jesus  of  Nazar eth,  Who  was  crucified  ?  said 
the  Angel,  to  prevent  any  mistake  about  Him,  since  there 
were  several  others  bearing  the  same  name  of  Jesus. 
Yet,  this  holy  Name  belongs  in  reality  only  to  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  Who  was  crucified.  As  the  Angel 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


1 66 

said :  He  is  risen ,  He  is  not  here .  He  is  no  longer  here 
in  His  humanity,  though  His  Divinity  is  present  every¬ 
where.  But  go ,  the  Angel  continued,  tell  His  disciples  and 
Peter  that  He  goeth  before  you  into  Galilee .  You  will  per¬ 
haps  ask  why  the  Angel,  after  speaking  of  the  disciples, 
specially  mentioned  Peter.  But  when  we  consider  that 
Peter,  after  the  great  misfortune  of  denying  his  Master, 
would  probably  not  have  dared  to  accompany  the  other 
disciples  to  seek*and  meet  Jesus,  you  will  easily  under¬ 
stand  why  he  was  specially  invited  and  his  name  men¬ 
tioned — that  is,  that  he  should  have  no  motive  to  doubt 
that  his  faithlessness  was  forgiven  him.  Acknowledge 
the  infinite  goodness  of  God !  He  had  permitted  that 
disciple,  chosen  by  Him  to  be  the  visible  head  of  His 
Church,  to  be  so  frightened  by  the  words  of  a  maid¬ 
servant,  as  to  deny  his  Redeemer,  so  that  the  remem¬ 
brance  of  his  own  weakness  and  sin  might  teach  him 
patience  and  forbearance  with  other  people’s  misery,  and 
with  the  failings  of  the  great  flock  that  was  to  be 
entrusted  to  him. 

V.  Not  without  a  special  reason  did  our  Lord  send 
word  to  His  disciples  that  He  expected  them  in  Galilee, 
where  they  would  find  Him.  The  word  ‘  Galilee  *  means 
‘  change  and  this  was  entirely  conformable  with  the  state 
of  our  Saviour,  for  He  had  passed  from  suffering  to  the 
glory  of  the  resurrection,  from  death  to  life,  from  a  state 
of  corruption  to  incorruptibility.  He  showed  Himself  in 
Galilee,  glorious  and  risen  from  the  dead,  to  manifest 
Himself  to  them  by  the  place  He  had  chosen,  and  to  give 
us  to  understand  that  one  day  we  shall  have  the  joy  and 
happiness  of  seeing  Him  in  the  glory  of  His  resurrection, 
if  now  we  pass  from  the  state  of  sin  to  the  heights  of 
Christian  virtues.  Notice  also  that  our  Redeemer  had 
Himself  announced  to  the  disciples  near  the  place  of 


EASTER  SUNDAY 


1 67 


His  sepulchre,  yet  appeared  to  them  only  after  changing 
His  dwelling-place,  because,  according  to  His  example, 
the  mortification  of  the  flesh  must  precede  in  this  life  if 
we  wish  for  the  beatific  contemplation  in  the  next. 
These  few  words,  beloved  brethren,  I  wished  to  address 
to  you  on  the  Gospel  of  this  great  festival ;  yet,  just  on 
account  of  this  great  day,  I  will  add  a  few  more  remarks. 

VI.  It  is  certain  that  there  are  two  kinds  of  life  :  the 
one  we  now  lead  in  this  world,  the  other  of  which  we 
have  no  knowledge.  The  life  we  now  know  is  mortal, 
the  other  is  immortal ;  by  the  one  we  are  subject  to 
corruption,  by  the  other  we  obtain  incorruptibility.  Death 
will  be  the  end  of  the  first,  and  our  resurrection  will  be 
the  beginning  of  the  second.  Jesus  Christ,  Who  came 
as  the  Mediator  between  God  and  man,  lived  the  one 
and  the  other  life ;  for  He  suffered  the  death  of  the  first, 
and  He  rose  from  the  dead  to  give  us  some  knowledge  of 
the  second.  Had  He  only  promised  that  one  day  we 
shall  rise  again,  without  giving  us  in  His  own  flesh  an 
example  of  that  resurrection,  no  one  perhaps  would  have 
referred  to  His  testimony.  But  by  taking  our  human 
nature,  and  becoming  like  ourselves,  He  willingly  gave 
up  His  body  to  death  ;  then,  by  His  infinite  power,  He 
tose  again,  and  gave  us  in  His  own  Person  a  pledge  of 
the  resurrection  He  had  promised.  Should  anyone  say 
that  it  was  easy  for  God  to  rise  from  the  dead,  since 
He  could  not  be  overcome  by  death,  he  will  consider 
that,  to  enlighten  our  ignorance  and  strengthen  our  faith 
in  a  future  resurrection,  our  Lord  wished  us  to  be  con¬ 
vinced  not  by  the  example  of  His  resurrection  only. 
For  notice,  though  He  was  the  only  one  who  died  at  that 
moment,  yet  Holy  Scripture  tells  us  (Matt,  xxviir),,  that 
many  bodies  of  the  saints,  that  had  slept,  arose  at  that 
time,  thus  destroying  any  doubts  still  remaining  in  the 


i68 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


minds  of  unbelievers.  Therefore,  should  anybody,  seeing 
that  a  Man- God  rose  from  the  dead,  still  doubt  about  his 
own  resurrection,  he  being  only  a  mere  man,  he  must 
remember  that  Providence  willed  people  of  the  same 
nature  as  ours  to  rise  with  Jesus  Christ.  Being  members 
of  the  Redeemer,  we  have  no  doubt  but  that  what  is  seen 
in  the  Head  will  be  fulfilled  in  the  members ;  that  what 
happened  to  those  who,  as  the  first  .members  of  the 
Saviour,  rose  from  the  dead,  will  also  happen  to  us 
though  the  last. 

VII.  The  Jews  blasphemed  the  crucified  Redeemer, 
and  said  :  If  Hebe  the  King  of  Israel ,  let  Him  now  come  down 
from  the  cross ,  and  we  will  believe  in  Him  (Matt,  xxvii.  42). 
Had  Jesus  yielded  to  these  insults  and  mockery,  He  would 
not  have  given  us  the  beautiful  example  of  His  astonishing 
patience.  However,  He  waited ;  He  accepted  and  bore 
insults  and  blasphemies ;  He  persevered  in  that  wonderful 
patience,  and  put  off  the  time  for  giving  a  sign  of  His 
almighty  power,  that  would  then  have  caused  a  momentary 
amazement  only,  in  order  to  show  a  greater  miracle, 
namely,  the  glory  of  His  resurrection.  It  was  a  more 
glorious  triumph  to  leave  the  sepulchre,  full  of  renewed 
life,  than  to  come  down  from  the  cross.  By  His  resur¬ 
rection  He  triumphed  over  death, ‘whilst  by  descending 
from  the  cross  He  would  only  have  saved  His  life. 
Meanwhile,  the  Jews  were  jubilant,  for,  in  spite  of  their 
insults,  our  Lord  was  still  hanging  on  the  cross ;  and  they 
presumed  that,  after  His  death,  His  name  would  be 
forgotten  for  ever.  Yet,  out  of  the  bosom  of  the  earth, 
His  Name  was  spread  abroad  all  over  the  world,  and  with 
such  glory  that  this  perfidious,  nation,  so  eager  to  punish 
Him  with  an  ignominious  death,  was  quite  confounded, 
when  seeing  that  the  torments  inflicted  on  Him  had 
become  the  cause  of  His  triumph.  It  was  thought  of 


EASTER  SUNDAY 


169 

Samson  by  the  Philistines  that,  being  enclosed  within  the 
walls  of  the  city  of  Gaza,  and  surrounded  by  guards,  he 
would  soon  be  overcome  and  bound  with  the  chains  they 
had  prepared  ;  but  during  the  night  He  took  the  doors  of 
the  gate,  and,  laying  them  on  His  shoulders,  carried  them 
up  to  the  top  of  the  hill  (Judg.  xvi.  2,  3).  Thus  the  all- 
powerful  Saviour,  the  strong  God  typified  by  Samson, 
burst  the  bonds  of  the  sepulchre,  surrounded  by  the  Jews 
with  guards,  whilst  they  fancied  that  the  Author  of  life, 
Whom  they  had  killed  and  enclosed  in  the  grave,  would 
be  for  ever  buried  therein.  And  this  all-powerful  God, 
more  terrible  after  His  death  than  Samson  in  his  life, 
came  out,  after  descending  into  Limbo,  and,  triumphing 
over  His  enemies,  ascended  into  heaven.  Let  us  abide 
by  this  glorious  resurrection,  which,  announced  by  the 
Prophets,  was  so  happily  accomplished.  Let  us  desire 
to  die,  that  we  may  be  partakers  of  that  resurrection. 
And  since  we  heard  that  the  angels  who  announced  the 
resurrection  of  our  Lord,  are  inhabitants  of  the  eternal 
dwelling  for  which  we  are  longing,  let  us  endeavour  to 
reach  them,  and  thus  celebrate  this  festival  with  them. 
Though  we  are  not  just  now  able  to  enjoy  a  glorious 
resurrection  with  these  heavenly  spirits,  we  will,  never¬ 
theless,  join  them  with  the  ardour  of  our  desires.  Let 
us  forsake  sin  and  practise  virtue,  and  by  this  change  be 
able  to  see  the  face  of  our  Redeemer.  Ask  God  the 
Father,  Who  for  the  sake  of  our  salvation  delivered  His 
only-begotten  Son  to  a  cruel  death,  to  strengthen  our 
desires,  so  that  we  may  for  ever  praise  Him,  the  Father, 
and  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost.  Amen. 


170 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


EASTER  MONDAY. 

Gospel:  Luke  xxiv.  13-35.  At  that  time:  Two  of  the 
disciples  went  the  same  day  to  a  town,  which  was  sixty 
furlongs  from  Jerusalem,  named  Emmaus.  And  they 
talked  together  of  all  these  things  which  had  happened. 
And  it  came  to  pass,  that  while  they  talked  and  reasoned 
with  themselves,  Jesus  Himself  also  drawing  near,  went 
with  them.  But  their  eyes  were  held,  that  they  should 
not  know  Him.  And  He  said  to  them  :  What  are  these 
discourses  that  you  hold  one  with  another  as  you  walk 
and  are  sad  ?  And  the  one  of  them,  whose  name  was 
Cleophas,  answering,  said  to  Him  :  Art  Thou  only  a 
stranger  in  Jerusalem,  and  hast  not  known  the  things  that 
have  been  done  there  in  these  days  ?  To  whom  He  said  : 
What  things?  And  they  said:  Concerning  Jesus  of 
Nazareth,  Who  was  a  prophet,  mighty  in  work  and  word 
before  God  and  all  the  people.  And  how  our  chief  priests 
and  princes  delivered  Him  to  be  condemned  to  death,  and 
crucified  Him.  But  we  hoped  that  it  was  He  that  should 
have  redeemed  Israel ;  and  now  besides  all  this,  to-day  is 
the  third  day  since  these  things  were  done.  Yea,  and  cer¬ 
tain  women  also  of  our  company  affrighted  us,  who  before  it 
was  light,  were  at  the  sepulchre,  and,  not  finding  His  body, 
came  saying  that  they  had  also  seen  a  vision  of  angels, 
who  say  that  He  is  alive.  And  some  of  our  people  went 
to  the  sepulchre,  and  found  it  so  as  the  women  had  said, 
but  Him  they  found  not.  Then  He  said  to  them :  Oh, 
foolish  and  slow  of  heart  to  believe  in  all  things  which 
the  Prophets  have  spoken !  Ought  not  Christ  to  have 
suffered  these  things,  and  so  to  enter  into  His  glory  ? 
And  ‘beginning  at  Moses  and  all  the  Prophets,  He  ex¬ 
plained  to  them  in  all  the  Scriptures,  the  things  that  were 


EASTER  MONDAY 


171 

concerning  Him.  And  they  drew  nigh  to  the  town, 
whither  they  were  going,  and  He  made  as  though  He 
would  go  farther.  But  they  constrained  Him,  saying  : 
Stay  with  us,  because  it  is  towards  evening,  and  the  day 
is  now  far  spent.  And  He  went  in  with  them.  And  it 
came  to  pass,  whilst  He  was  at  table  with  them,  He  took 
bread,  and  blessed,  and  brake,  and  gave  to  them.  And 
their  eyes  were  opened,  and  they  knew  Him :  and  He 
vanished  out  of  their  sight.  And  they  said  one  to  the 
other:  Was  not  our  heart  burning  within  us,  whilst  He 
spoke  in  the  way,  and  opened  to  us  the  Scriptures  ?  And, 
rising  up  the  same  hour,  they  went  back  to  Jerusalem ; 
and  they  found  the  eleven  gathered  together,  and  those 
that  were  with  them.  And  they  told  what  things  were 
done  in  the  way,  and  how  they  knew  Him  in  the  break¬ 
ing  of  bread, 

HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
CHURCH  OF  ST.  PETER  ON  EASTER  MONDAY. 

Twenty-third  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  You  have  heard,  beloved  brethren,  how  two  of  the 
Lord’s  disciples  went  together  to  Emmaus,  and  were 
talking  about  Him.  They  did  not  believe  in  His  resur¬ 
rection,  yet  talked  about  it,  when  the  Lord  Himself 
appeared  to  them,  but  held  their  eyes  so  that  they  should 
not  recognise  Him.  And  this  holding  of  their  corporal 
eyes  was  a  figure  of  the  spiritual  veil  by  which  the  eyes 
of  their  hearts  were  still  covered.  In  their  hearts  they 
loved,  yet  they  doubted ;  and  the  Lord  drew  nigh  to 
them  outwardly,  though  He  did  not  show  Himself  to 
their  soul.  He  revealed  His  immediate  presence  to  them 
that  talked  of  Him,  and  He  hid  from  them  who  doubted 
the  knowledge  of  His  Person.  By  words  He  associated 


172 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


with  them,  and  rebuked  their-  heart-hardness  :  He  ex¬ 
pounded  to  them  in  all  the  Scriptures ,  the  things  that  were  con¬ 
cerning  Him  ;  nevertheless,  seeing  that  He  was  still  a 
stranger  to  faith  in  their  hearts,  He  made  as  though  He 
would  go  farther .  These  words,  He  made  as  though ,  would 
seem  to  mean,  He  feigned ;  but  He,  who  is  Truth  itself, 
has  nothing  to  do  with  feigning.  He  showed  Himself  to 
them  in  bodily  manners,  as  He  was  to  them  spiritually ; 
but  they  were  put  to  the  proof  whether  they  could  love 
Him,  at  least,  as  a  wanderer,  though  they  loved  Him 
not  yet  as  their  God. 

II.  However,  since  it  was  impossible  that  they,  with 
whom  the  Truth  was  walking,  should  be  without  love, 
they  invited  Him  as  a  wanderer  to  accept  their  hospi¬ 
tality.  Why  do  we  say  they  invited  Him,  since  it  is 
written  :  But  they  constrained  Him  ?  Their  example  teaches 
us  not  only  to  bid,  but  even  to  compel  wanderers,  to  accept 
our  hospitality.  These  disciples,  therefore,  laid  a  table, 
and  set  before  Him  bread  and  meat ;  and  they  knew  in 
the  breaking  of  the  bread  that  God,  Whom  they  had  not 
known  in  the  expounding  of  the  Holy  Scripture.  They 
were  not  enlightened  in  hearing  the  Commandments  of 
God,  but  they  were  enlightened  in  doing  them,  as  it  is 
written  :  Not  the  hearers  of  the  law  are  just  before  God ,  but 
the  doers  of  the  law  are  justified  (Rom.  ii.  13).  Whosoever 
will  understand  that  which  he  hears,  let  him  make  haste 
to  practise  in  his  works  what  he  was  able  to  hear. 
Behold,  the  Lord  was  not  known  while  He  spoke,  but 
deigned  to  be  known  when  breaking  the  bread. 

III.  I  say  this  to  you,  beloved  brethren,  that  you 
might  willingly  practise  hospitality  and*  all  other  works 
of  charity.  Remember  St.  Paul’s  words  :  Let  the  charity 
of  the  brotherhood  abide  in  you  ;  and  hospitality  do  not  forget ; 
for  by  this  some ,  being  not  aware  of  it ,  have  entertained  angels 


EASTER  MON  DA  Y 


*73 


(Heb.  xiii.  i,  2).  And  St.  Peter  says :  Using  hospitality  one 
towards  another  without  murmuring  (1  Pet.  iv.  9).  Lastly, 
Truth  Himself  says  to  you :  I  was  a  stranger ,  and  you 
took  Me  in  (Matt.  xxv.  35).  An  authentic  history,  related 
in  the  writings  of  our  forefathers,  tells  us  of  a  father  of 
a  family  who,  with  all  the  members  of  his  household, 
zealously  practised  the  virtue  of  hospitality.  Every  day 
he  received  poor  strangers  at  his  table,  and  waited  on 
them.  One  day,  among  the  poor  strangers  there  was 
one  who  suddenly  disappeared  out  of  the  room,  at  the 
moment  when  the  humble  and  charitable  man  presented 
him,  as  was  his  custom,  with  water  to  wash  his  hands 
therewith.  His  surprise  was  great ;  but  during  the 
night  he  had  a  vision.  Our  Lord  appeared,  and  said  to 
him  :  c  On  other  days  you  received  Me  in  My  members, 
but  yesterday  you  received  Me  in  Person.’  At  the  last 
judgment  our  Lord  will  say  :  Amen ,  I  say  to  you,  as  long  as 
you  did  it  to  one  of  these  My  least  brethren ,  you  did  it  to  Me 
(Matt.  xxv.  40).  All  this  teaches  us  that,  before  the 
time  of  the  last  judgment,  Jesus  Christ  is  received  by  us 
in  the  person  of  poor  strangers,  and  that  those,  who 
receive  them,  are  considered  by  Jesus  as  receiving  Him. 
Yet  we  neglect  the  blessings  and  merits  acquired  by  true 
hospitality.  Consider  the  excellence  of  this  virtue,  and 
receive  Jesus  at  your  table,  that  one  day  He  may  receive 
you  at  His  eternal  banquet.  Take  into  your  house,  in 
the  persons  of  strangers,  the  Lord  Jesus,  that  on  the  day 
of  the  judgment  He  treat  you  not  as  strangers  whom  He 
knows  not,  but  take  you  as  friends  into  His  kingdom, 
there  to  enjoy  His  glory,  Who  liveth  and  reigneth  for 
ever  and  ever.  Amen. 


174 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


FIRST  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER,  OR  LOW 

SUNDAY 

Gospel:  John  xx.  19-31.  At  that  time:  When  it  was 
late  that  same  day,  being  the  first  day  of  the  week,  and 
the  doors  were  shut,  where  the  disciples  were  gathered 
together  for  fear  of  the  Jews,  Jesus  came  and  stood  in 
the  midst,  and  said  to  them  :  Peace  be  to  you.  And 
when  He  had  said  this,  He  showed  them  His  hands  and 
His  side.  The  disciples  therefore  were  glad  when  they 
saw  the  Lord.  He  said,  therefore,  to  them  again : 
Peace  be  to  you.  As  the  Father  hath  sent  Me,  I  also 
send  you.  When  He  had  said  this,  He  breathed  on 
them,  and  He  said  to  them :  Receive  ye  the  Holy 
Ghost ;  whose  sins  you  shall  forgive,  they  are  forgiven 
them  ;  and  whose  sins  you  shall  retain,  they  are  retained. 
Now  Thomas,  one  of  the  twelve,  who  is  called  Didymus, 
was  not  with  them  when  Jesus  came.  The  other  dis¬ 
ciples,  therefore,  said  to  him  :  We  have  seen  the  Lord. 
But  he  said  to  them  :  Except  I  shall  see  in  His  hands 
the  print  of  the  nails,  and  put  my  finger  into  the  place 
of  the  nails,  and  put  my  hands  into  His  side,  I  will  not 
believe.  And  after  eight  days,  again  the  disciples  were 
within,  and  Thomas  with  them.  Jesus  cometh,  the 
doors  being  shut,  and  stood  in  the  midst,  and  said  :  Peace 
be  to  you.  Then  He  said  to  Thomas  :  Put  in  thy  finger 
hither,  and  see  My  hands,  and  bring  hither  thy  hand,  and 
put  it  into  My  side ;  and  be  not  faithless,  but  believing. 
Thomas  answered  and  said  to  Him :  My  Lord  and  my 
God.  Jesus  said  to  him  :  Because  thou  hast  seen  Me, 
Thomas,  thou  hast  believed :  blessed  are  they  that  have 
not  seen,  and  have  believed.  Many  other  signs  also  did 
Jesus  in  the  sight  of  His  disciples,  which  are  not  written 
in  this  book.  But  these  are  written  that  you  may  believe 


FIRST  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER 


1 75 

that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God  ;  and  that, 
believing,  you  may  have  life  in  His  Name. 

HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 

CHURCH  OF  ST.  JOHN  LATERAN  ON  THE  FIRST 

SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER. 

Twenty-sixth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  When  we  hear  this  Gospel,  our  human  mind  can 
hardly  understand  how  it  was  that  the  Body  of  the  risen 
Lord,  being  a  real  Body,  could  pass  through  closed  doors 
into  the  room  where  the  disciples  were  assembled.  But 
this  will  not  surprise  us  when  we  consider  that  the  works 
of  God  would  no  longer  be  wonderful,  were  they  under¬ 
stood  by  man’s  reason,  and  that  our  faith  would  be 
destitute  of  all  merit,  were  the  human  intellect  able  to 
demonstrate  how  these  works  of  God  are  done.  How¬ 
ever,  these  very  works  of  our  Redeemer,  which  we  are 
unable  to  understand,  must  be  taken  in  connection  with 
some  others  of  His  works,  so  that  we  may  be  led  to 
believe  in  wonderful  things  by  means  of  others  still  more 
wonderful.  For  that  Body  of  our  Lord,  which  came  into 
the  assembly  of  the  disciples,  the  doors  being  shut,  was 
the  same  which  at  His  birth  was  manifested  to  the  eyes 
of  men,  by  passing  out  of  the  Virgin’s  womb  without 
breaking  the  seal  of  her  virginity.  What  wonder,  then, 
is  it  that  Jesus  Christ,  after  His  Resurrection,  enjoyed  a 
glorious  and  immortal  life,  showed  Himself  to  His  dis¬ 
ciples,  the  doors  being  shut,  since  as  a  weak  and  mortal 
child  He  came  out  of  a  Virgin’s  womb  in  an  incompre¬ 
hensible  manner  ?  But  since  the  Body  of  our  Lord, 
after  His  resurrection,  though  real  and  visible,  could 
raise  doubts  in  the  minds  of  the  beholders,  He  showed 
them  His  hands  and  His  side ,  and  allowed  them  to  touch 


176 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


that  same  flesh  which  had  just  passed  through  closed 
doors.  In  this  event  two  strange  things  which,  according 
to  our  understanding,  are  contrary  the  one  to  the  other, 
were  manifested,  namely,  that  His  Body  was  incorrup¬ 
tible  and  yet  palpable.  For,  whatsoever  can  be  touched 
must  needs  be  corruptible  ;  and  whatsoever  is  not  subject 
to  corruption  cannot  be  touched.  But,  in  a  way  altogether 
wonderful  and  incomprehensible,  our  Redeemer  appeared 
after  His  resurrection  in  a  Body  at  the  same  time  pal¬ 
pable  and  incorruptible.  He  appeared  in  an  incorruptible 
Body,  inviting  us  to  seek  the  same  glorification  ;  and  in 
a  palpable  Body  to  strengthen  our  faith.  He  showed 
Himself  both  incorruptible  and  palpable,  to  make  mani¬ 
fest  this  fact,  that  His  risen  Body  was  the  same  in  nature, 
though  transfigured  in  glory. 

II.  He  said  therefore  to  them  again  :  Peace  be  to  you .  As 
the  Father  hath  sent  Me^  I  also  send  you.  The  Father,  Who 
is  God,  sent  Me  Who  am  God ;  and  I  Who  am  also  man, 
send  you  who  are  men.  The  Father  sent  the  Son,  Whom 
He  appointed  to  be  made  man  for  the  redemption  of 
man.  He  willed  to  send  the  Son  into  the  world  to  suffer, 
though  He  loved  that  Son  Who  was  sent  to  suffer.  And 
our  Lord  sent  His  chosen  Apostles  into  the  world,  not 
to  be  happy  in  the  world,  but  to  suffer,  as  He  Himself 
had  been  sent.  For,  as  the  Father  loves  the  Son,  and 
yet  sent  Him  to  suffer,  so  does  the  Lord  love  His 
Apostles,  though  sending  them  into  the  world  to  suffer 
therein.  Therefore  it  is  well  said:  1  As  the  Father  hath 
sent  Me ,  I  also  send  you  meaning,  while  I  send  you  into 
storms  and  persecutions,  I  love  you  all  the  same  with  a 
love  like  that  wherewith  My  Father  loves  Me,  Who  yet 
sent  me  into  the  world  to  suffer.  This  sending  of  the 
Son  may  also  be  understood  of  His  Eternal  and  Divine 
generation,  for  the  Holy  Ghost,  equal  to  the  Father  and 


FIRST  SUN  DA  Y  AFTER  EASTER 


m 


to  the  Son,  and  Who  has  not  assumed  our  human  nature, 
was  to  be  sent  according  to  the  promise  of  our  Redeemer : 
When  the  Paraclete  cometh ,  Whom  I  will  send  you  from  the 
Father  (John  xv.  26).  For  should  the  word  send  only 
mean  to  become  man,  then  the  Holy  Ghost  could  not  be 
said  to  have  been  sent9  since  He  did  not  become  man. 
We  call  Him,  therefore,  sent ,  in  that  sense  that  He  pro¬ 
ceeds  from  the  Father  and  the  Son,  and,  as  His  sending 
refers  to  His  Divine  procession,  so  may  the  sending  of 
the  Son  be  referred  to  His  Divine  generation. 

III.  When  Jesus,  standing  in  the  midst  of  His 
disciples,  had  said:  Peace  be  to  you ,  He  breathed  on  them 
and  said  :  Receive  ye  the  Holy  Ghost .  Let  me  remark  that 
Holy  Scripture  speaks  of  two  occasions  only  on  which  the 
Holy  Gho.st  was  given  by  our  Redeemer :  the  first,  when 
He  was  still  on  earth,  and  the  second  when  He  was 
already  reigning  in  heaven.  On  the  first  occasion,  as  it 
is  seen  in  this  Gospel,  He  breathed  on  His  disciples,  and 
on  the  second  the  Holy  Ghost  came  down  from  heaven 
upon  them  in  the  form  of  fiery  tongues.  Now,  should 
we  wish  to  know  the  reason  why  the  Holy  Ghost  was 
imparted  at  two  different  times,  and  under  different 
circumstances,  we  must  consider  that  charity  contains 
two  commandments,  namely,  the  love  of  God  and  the 
love  of  our  neighbour.  It  seems,  therefore,  that  the 
Holy  Ghost  was  given  on  earth  to  move  us  to  fulfil  the 
duty  of  loving  our  neighbour;  whereas  He  was  sent 
from  heaven  to  inflame  our  hearts  with  true  love  for 
God.  But,  since  the  two  commandments  spring  forth 
from  charity,  which  is  one  and  the  same,  so  was  the  one 
and  the  same  Holy  Ghost  given  by  our  Redeemer  on 
two  occasions — to  wit,  the  first  time  when  He  was  still  on 
earth,  and  the  second  after  His  Ascension  into  heaven, 
giving  us.  to  understand  that  the  love  for  our  neighbour 

12 


178  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

serves  like  steps  leading  us  up  to  the  love  for  God, 
according  to  the  words  of  His  beloved  disciple  :  If  anyone 
say ,  I  love  Gody  and  hateth  his  brother ,  he  is  a  liar .  For  he 
that  loveth  not  his  brother ,  whom  he  seeth ,  how  can  he  love  Gody 
Whom  he  seeth  not(i  John  iv.  20).  Yet  let  us  not  conclude 
that  the  Apostles  had  not  received  the  Holy  Ghost 
before,  since  they  possessed  Him  by  faith.  But  after 
the  Resurrection  the  Holy  Ghost  was  given  to  them  in  a 
special  and  visible  manner ;  and  we  understand  in  this 
sense  the  words,  As  yet  the  Holy  Ghost  was  not  given , 
because  Jesus  was  not  yet  glorified  (John  vii.  39).  Hence 
Moses  said  :  He  set  him  that  he  might  suck  honey  out  of  the 
rocky  and  oil  out  of  the  hardest  stone  (Deut.  xxxii.  13).  For, 
perusing  the  Books  of  the  Old  Testament,  we  find  that 
these  words  cannot  be  applied  to  the  Israelites,  since  we 
do  not  see  anywhere  that  they  ever  sucked  honey  and 
oil  out  of  stones.  We  conclude,  therefore,  according  to 
the  testimony  of  St.  Paul,  that  this  rock  was  Christ. 
Indeed,  seeing  the  acts  and  wonders  of  Jesus,  the  disciples 
sucked  honey  out  of  this  Stone,  and  oil  out  of  this  Rock  ; 
for,  after  His  Resurrection,  they  received  the  anointing  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  We  may  also  compare  our  Saviour 
with  a  soft  stone,  that,  through  the  sweetness  of  His 
miracles,  in  His  earthly  life,  He  offered  honey  to  the 
disciples.  But  since,  after  His  Resurrection  He  cannot 
suffer  any  more,  and  has  become  like  a  hard  rock,  He 
sent  them  the  anointing  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

IV.  This  is  the  supernatural  oil  spoken  of  by  the 
prophets:  The  yoke  shall  putrefy  at  the  presence  of  the  oil 
(Isa.  x.  27).  We  were  under  the  yoke  of  the  cruel 
slavery  of  Satan  ;  but  having  received  the  anointing  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  and  the  grace  to  be  set  at  liberty,  the 
tyrannical  yoke,  under  which  we  were  groaning,  has  dis¬ 
appeared.  This  truth  is  confirmed  by  St.  Paul,  saying 


FIRST  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER  179 

Where  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is,  there  is  liberty  (2  Cor.  iii.  17). 
However,  take  notice  that  these  very  disciples,  who  had 
already  received  the  Holy  Ghost,  so  as  to  lead  a  holy  life 
with  His  assistance,  and  by  their  preaching  to  be  useful 
to  others,  again  received  the  Holy  Ghost  after  the 
Resurrection,  and  in  a  most  striking  manner,  for  the 
benefit  of  the  nations  they  were  to  instruct  in  the  course 
of  time.  Hence  our  Lord,  giving  them  the  Holy  Ghost, 
says :  Whose  sins  you  shall  forgive,  they  are  forgiven  them  ; 
and  whose  sins  you  shall  retain,  they  are  retained.  Let  us 
wonder  at  the  high  degree  of  honour  to  which  the  dis¬ 
ciples  were  raised  at  a  time  when  destined  to  suffer  the 
deepest  humiliations.  They  were  promised  that  not  only 
their  own  sins  were  forgiven,  but  that  .they  had  power  to 
absolve  others  from  their  sins — that  is,  power  to  sit  on 
God’s  judgment-seat,  and,  like  God  Himself,  to  forgive  or 
retain  sins  committed  against  His  Divine  justice.  It  was 
meet  that  those  who,  for  the  love  of  God,  were  ready 
to  accept  every  humiliation  and  contempt,  should  be 
honoured  in  this  way,  and  that  their  fear  of  being  con¬ 
demned  by  the  severe  Judge  Whom  they  adored  should 
be  the  motive  prompting  God  to  set  them  up  as  judges 
of  souls,  which  were  to  be  condemned  or  to  be  absolved. 

V.  Consider  again,  beloved  brethren,  this  important 
truth,  and  carefully  endeavour  to  be  preserved  from  the 
eternal  perdition.  These  Easter-days  are  celebrated 
with  great  pomp  and  magnificence ;  yet  our  duty  is 
■to  make  ourselves  worthy  of  arriving  at  the  eternal 
Festivals.  You  endeavour  to  be  present  at  these  feast- 
days,  which  pass  and  disappear ;  try,  then,  your  utmost 
to  be  one  day  present,  all  together,  at  the  never-ending 
celebration  in  heaven.  What  would  it  profit  you  to 
assist  at  our  festivals  now,  were  you  never  to  be  admitted 
to  the  festivities  of  the  angels  in  heaven  ?  Our  present 

12 — 2 


i8o 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


feast-days  are  only  the  shadow  of  those  we  are  expecting, 
and,  though  year  after  year  we  are  celebrating  them,  we 
are  longing  for  those  never-ending  days  in  the  kingdom 
of  God.  Renew  in  your  hearts  the  desire  of  the  eternal 
festivities  by  the  celebration  of  the  annual  earthly  festivals. 
Let  the  happiness  granted  to  us  in  the  present  time  pene¬ 
trate  us  in  such  a  way  that  we  continue  sighing  for  the 
eternal  happiness  prepared  for  us  in  heaven,  and  ardently 
desired  by  us  on  earth.  Prepare  yourselves  for  that 
eternal  rest  by  amending  your  lives  and  practising  virtue 
and  holiness.  Never  forget  that  He  Who  in  His  Resur¬ 
rection  was  meekness  itself,  will  be  terrible  when  coming 
to  judge  the  world.  On  this  awful  day  He  will  appear 
surrounded  by  Angels,  Archangels,  Thrones,  Principali¬ 
ties  and  Powers.  On  that  day  heaven  and  earth  and  all 
the  elements,  being  the  ministers  of  His  wrath,  will  be 
in  a  general  conflagration.  May  this  terrible  Judge  be 
ever  present  to  the  eyes  of  your  mind,  that,  penetrated  by 
a  salutary  fear  of  His  severe  judgment,  that  is  to  be  held, 
you  may  confidently  expect  His  coming.  Let  us  fear  now, 
that  we  may  be  without  fear  then,  and  this  fear  will  help 
us  to  avoid  sin  and  work  out  our  salvation.  For  I  tell 
you  that  the  more  we  are  now  afraid  to  rouse  the  anger 
of  our  Judge  against  us,  the  greater  will  be  our  confidence 
when  we  appear  before  Him  at  the  end  of  the  world. 

SECOND  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER. 

Gospel  :  John  x.  11-16.  At  that  time  :  Jesus  said  to  the 
Pharisees  :  I  am  the  Good  Shepherd.  The  Good  Shep¬ 
herd  giveth  his  life  for  the  sheep.  But  the  hireling,  and 
he  that  is  not  the  shepherd,  whose  own  the  sheep  are 
not,  seeth  the  wolf  coming,  and  leaveth  the  sheep,  and 
flieth  ;  and  the  wolf  catcheth  and  scattereth  the  sheep, 


SECOND  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER  181 

and  the  hireling  flieth,  because  he  is  a  hireling,  and  he 
hath  no  care  for  the  sheep.  I  am  the  Good  Shepherd : 
and  I  know  Mine  and  Mine  know  Me.  As  the  Father 
knoweth  Me,  and  I  know  the  Father ;  and  I  lay  down 
My  life  for  My  sheep.  And  other  sheep  I  have,  that 
are  not  of  this  fold :  them  also  I  must  bring,  and  they 
shall  hear  My  voice,  and  there  shall  be  one  fold,  and  one 
Shepherd. 

HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 

CHURCH  OF  ST.  PETER  ON  THE  SECOND  SUNDAY 

AFTER  EASTER. 

Fourteenth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  This  Gospel  which  you  have  heard,  beloved 
brethren,  is  to  you,  both  an  instruction  and  a  warning 
against  danger.  For  our  Lord,  Who  is  infinitely  good, 
not  by  an  accidental  gift  of  nature,  but  by  the  very 
essence  of  His  being,  says  to  us  :  I  am  the  Good  Shepherd . 
Then  He  tells  us  what  is  the  character  of  His  goodness, 
even  of  that  goodness  which  we  must  endeavour  to 
imitate.  The  Good  Shepherd  giveth  His  life  for  His  sheep . 
This  truth  was  proved  by  our  Redeemer’s  own  example ; 
for  both  the  instruction  and  the  command  were  literally 
fulfilled  in  His  life.  The  Good  Shepherd  gave  His  life 
for  the  sheep,  and  made  His  own  Body  and  Blood  to  be 
the  sacramental  Food  of  the  sheep  He  had  redeemed.  In 
this  Divine  Model  we  perceive  the  way  we  are  to  go,  and 
the  manner  of  imitating  Him.  For  we  see  in  Him  the 
duty  freely  and  tenderly  to  spend  our  temporal  goods  for 
His  sheep,  and,  if  necessary,  to  give  our  life  for  them. 
Again,  the  soul  being  more  precious  than  all  outward 
things  that  we  possess,  how  shall  we  be  ready  to  give 
our  life  for  our  brethren,  seeing  that  we  refuse  to  them 
even  our  worldly  substance  ?  However,  there  are  many, 


i82 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


loving  the  things  of  this  world  better  than  the  sheep 
entrusted  to  them,  who  deserve  no  longer  to  be  called 
shepherds.  Of  them  it  is  said  by  our  Redeemer  :  The 
hireling ,  and  he  that  is  not  the  shepherd ,  whose  own  the  sheep 
are  noty  seeth  the  wolf  comings  and  leaveth  the  sheep ,  and  flieth . 

II.  He  is  called  a  hireling,  and  is  deprived  of  all  the 
rights  of  a  good  shepherd,  because  he  does  not  in  reality 
love  the  sheep  entrusted  to  him — that  is,  their  souls — 
but  wfishes  thereby  to  gain  earthly  wealth.  He  that 
takes  a  shepherd’s  place,  and  seeks  not  the  salvation  of 
souls,  is  only  a  hireling.  He  is  seeking  his  happiness  in 
he  honours  rendered  to  his  dignity,  and  endeavours  to 
procure  to  himself  the  commodities  of  life.  And  does 
not  the  reward  of  the  hireling  consist  in  the  temporal 
profit  he  acquires  by  the  care  he  takes  of  his  flock,  whilst 
he  will  be  deprived  of  the  eternal  inheritance  prepared 
by  God  for  His  faithful  servants  ?  But  it  is  not  very 
easy  to  recognise  the  true  shepherd,  and  to  distinguish 
him  from  the  hireling,  unless  he  be  discovered  by  special 
circumstances  or  by  dangers  threatening  the  flock.  For 
very  often,  when  men  are  kept  in  safety  by  peace  and 
tranquillity,  the  hireling  seems,  like  a  true  and  faithful 
shepherd,  to  watch  over  his  sheep.  But  when  a  wolf 
comes  near  the  flock,  then  will  be  noticed  by  what  spirit 
the  selfish  shepherd  is  animated.  Under  the  image  of 
the  ravenous  wolf  attacking  the  flock  we  usually  under¬ 
stand  a  violent  and  unjust  man,  who  attacks  souls,  and 
tries  to  bring  them  under  his  power.  In  such  circum¬ 
stances  he,  who  has  only  the  appearance  of  a  zealous 
shepherd,  will  leave  his  sheep  and  fly  away,  because  he 
is  afraid  of  dangers,  and  has  not  the  courage  to  resist  the 
unjust  attempts  of  the  enemy.  But  the  hypocritical 
shepherd  does  not  always  leave  his  place  or  go  away 
from  his  flock  ;  still,  he  may  be  said  to  fly,  because  he 


SECOND  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER  183 

gives  not  his  flock  the  necessary  assistance  and  the 
spiritual  help  he  owes  to  them.  He  flies,  since  he  keeps 
silent  at  the  time  when  he  ought  to  raise  his  voice  against 
injustice  ;  he  flies  when,  hiding  under  the  cloak  of  dis¬ 
simulation,  he  tries  to  escape  the  strokes  of  the  enemy. 
The  Prophet  justly  complains  against  such  faithless 
shepherds,  saying  :  You  have  not  gone  up  to  face  the  enemy , 
nor  have  you  set  up  a  wall  for  the  house  of  Israel ,  to  stand  in 
battle  in  the  day  of  the  Lord  (Ezech.  xiii.  5).  To  face  the 
enemy  means  to  resist  with  true  freedom  and  strength  of 
mind  every  kind  of  power  misusing,  its  authority  and 
doing  injustice.  We  stand  in  battle,  and  set  up  a  strong 
wall  for  the  protection  of  the  house  of  Israel,  when  with 
the  weapons  of  justice  we  defend  the  innocence  of  the 
faithful  attacked  without  cause.  But  under  such  critical 
circumstances  the  hireling,  perceiving  the  wolf  coming 
near  the  flock,  flies  instead  of  resisting. 

III.  However,  there  is  yet  another  wolf  against  whose 
fury,  far  more  terrible  than  the  former,  we  are  to  protect 
ourselves ;  for  his  cruelty  ravishes  not  bodies,  but  souls. 
This  is  the  infernal  spirit,  who  kills  souls  and  carries 
them  off  as  his  prey.  Of  the  devil  it  is  said  :  The  wolf 
catcheth  and  scattereth  the  sheeps  and  the  hireling  flieth.  This 
happens  when  the  devil,  by  his  temptations,  tears  souls 
to  pieces,  and  when  he,  who  ought  to  perform  the  duties 
of  a  good  shepherd,  thinks  of  earthly  advantages  only, 
and  lets  the  souls  go  to  their  ruin,  without  even  attempt¬ 
ing  to  help  them.  The  infernal  wolf  catches  and  scatters 
the  sheep,  attracting  some  to  lust  and  impure  sins,  and 
others  to  avarice  ;  tempting  some  to  pride  or  violent 
anger ;  awakening  in  some  sinful  envy,  and  instructing 
others  in  the  art  of  deceiving.  Through  these  different 
temptations  death  is  brought  by  the  devil  to  Christian 
souls ;  yet  the  zeal  of  the  hireling  is  not  awakened, 


184 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


neither  is  he  prompted  by  godliness  to  save  his  flock 
from  ruin  and  destruction.  For,  since  he  seeks  only  the 
comforts  and  commodities  of  life*  he  is  not  moved  by  the 
spiritual  sickness  nor  the  eternal  death  of  his  flock. 
Hence  our  Lord  adds  these  words :  The  hireling  flieth , 
because' he  is  a  hireling,  as  if  to  say:  It  is  not  possible  to 
one,  who  is  a  shepherd  of  My  sheep,  to  remain  firm 
amidst  dangers  surrounding  them,  if  he  does  not  give  to 
the  flock  an  unselfish  love,  but  is  seeking  for  the  perish¬ 
able  goods  of  the  world.  For,  desiring  honours  and  try¬ 
ing  to  find  happiness  in  the  enjoyment  of  earthly  things, 
he  will  be  careful  to  avoid  those  dangers  by  which  the 
things  he  loves  so  well  would  be  lost.  After  unfolding 
before  us  the  defects  and  faults  of  the  hireling,  our  Lord 
shows  us  in  His  own  Person  the  qualities  of  the  one  we 
are  to  imitate,  and  says  :  I  am  the  Good  Shepherd,  and  I 
know  Mine — that  is,  I  love  them — and  Mine  know  Me , 
namely,  they  are  subject  to  Me,  because  they  love  Me. 
He  that  has  no  love  for  the  truth  announced  by  our 
Saviour,  cannot  boast  of  knowing  Him. 

IV.  You  have  seen,  beloved  brethren,  the  dangers  to 
which  the  office  of  a  pastor  or  shepherd  is  exposed  ;  now 
recognise  also,  according  to  our  Lord’s  words,  those 
dangers  to  which  you  are  exposed.  Consider  first 
whether  you  are  of  the  sheep  belonging  to  the  Divine 
Shepherd,  and-  hear  His  voice.  Ask  yourselves  whether 
you  know  what  truth  is.  For  it  is  not  enough  to  recog¬ 
nise  the  truth  by  faith — it  must  be  sincerely  loved  ;  and 
it  is  not  enough  to  believe  the  truth — it  must  be  put  into 
practice.  St.  John,  who  wrote  this  Gospel,  says  :  He 
who  saith  that  he  knoweth  God,  and  keepeth  not  His  command¬ 
ments,  is  a  liar,  and  the  truth  is  not  in  him  (1  John  ii.  4). 
And  our  Lord  added  these  words:  As  the  Father  knoweth 
Me,  and  I  know  the  Father  ;  and  I  lay  down  My  life  for  My 


SECOND  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER  185 

sheep — that  is,  I  wish  them  to  recognise  the  love  I  have 
for  My  Father  by  the  love  that  moves  Me  to  give  My  life 
for  their  salvation.  And  since  our  Saviour  came  to 
redeem  not  only  the  Jews  but  also  the  Gentiles,  he  con¬ 
tinued :  And  other  sheep  I  have  that  are  not  of  this  fold  ; 
them  also  I  must  bring ,  and  they  shall  hear  My  voice ,  and  there 
shall  be  one  fold  and  one  Shepherd.  Our  Lord,  speaking  of 
these  other  sheep ,  had  in  view  our  own  salvation,  for  at 
that  time  we  were  among  the  number  of  the  Gentiles. 
And  this  is  fulfilled  every  day,  as  you  can  witness  the 
fact ;  for  you  are  aware  of  the  mystery  of  reconciliation 
among  the  idolaters,  by  which  the  two  nations,  formerly 
separated,  are  united  in  the  one  and  the  same  fold,  and 
Jews  and  Gentiles  form  one  spiritual  nation.  St.  Paul 
speaks  of  this  :  For  fesus  Christ  is  our  peace,  Who  hath  made 
both  one  (Eph.  ii.  14).  Thus  our  Lord  gives  life  everlasting 
to  simple  and  artless  souls,  chosen  among  the  one  and  the 
other  nation,  and  brings  them  as  His  sheep  into  His  own 
fold. 

V.  Of  these  sheep  our  Lord  was  speaking,  when  He 
said  :  My  sheep  hear  My  voice ,  and  I  know  them ,  and  they 
follow  Me.  And  I  give  them  life  everlasting.  <By  Me  if  any 
man  enter  in,  he  shall  be  saved  ;  and  he  shall  go  in  and  out ,  and 
• shall  find  pasture  (John  x.  27-29).  That  is,  he  will  go  in 
by  faith,  and  go  out  of  this  life  to  see  Me  face  to  face. 
Then  he  will  see  with  his  own  eyes  that  which  he  believed 
when  on  earth,  and  finally  he  will  find  eternal  nourish¬ 
ment  in  this  happy  dwelling.  These  are  the  pastures 
promised  by  our  Lord  and  found  by  His  sheep ;  for  since 
with  a  simple  and  willing  heart  they  followed  Him,  they 
will  be  nourished  with  heavenly  love,  that  fruitful  field 
and  that  inexhaustible  source  of  blessings.  Indeed, 
what  is  the  food  of  these  beloved  sheep  but  the  interior 
joy  felt  at  the  ever  new  spectacle  prepared  for  them  in 


1 86 


SUN  DA  YS  AND  FESTIVALS 


heaven  ?  God  Himself,  ever  present  to  the  elect,  will 
be  their  food ;  and  since  there  is  no  deficiency  in  Him, 
their  souls  will  be  continually  satiated  with  this  Bread  of 
Heaven.  In  these  delicious  pastures  of  eternity,  which 
alone  can  satisfy  our  desires,  was  found  real  happiness  by 
those  who  have  already  been  victorious  over  the  pleasures 
of  this  world.  The  heavenly  court  resounds  with  the 
eternal  songs  of  its  blessed  inhabitants.  Among  the 
citizens  of  this  holy  city  are  seen  those  who  safely 
arrived  there  after  a  sad  and  long  pilgrimage  in  this 
foreign  country,  in  which  we  are  still  living.  There  are 
seen  the  Prophets  who  announced  future  events ;  the 
Apostles  on  their  thrones  judging  the  nations ;  the 
glorious  army  of  the  Martyrs,  the  more  praiseworthy  the 
greater  their  sufferings  had  been ;  Confessors  rewarded 
for  their  constancy ;  faithful  and  fearless  men  never  over¬ 
come  by  the  wickedness  of  the  world  ;  holy  women  who, 
in  spite  of  the  weakness  of  their  sex,  conquered  the 
world ;  children,  whose  virtues  were  beyond  the  number 
of  their  years ;  and  old  men,  whose  infirmities  never 
prevented  them  from  advancing  on  the  road  to  perfection. 

VI.  Ah,  let  us  eagerly  seek  for  that  spiritual  food ! 
The  happiness,  which  so  many  heavenly  citizens  wish  to 
share  with  us,  will  be  obtained,  and  the  festivities  to  which 
we  are  invited  will  be  our  portion..  Were  a  great  market 
or  fair  to  be  held  in  a  city,  or  the  feast  of  the  consecra¬ 
tion  of  a  church  to  be  celebrated,  we  should  all  endeavour 
to  be  present.  You  would  feel  very  sorry,  were  you  not 
able  to  enjoy  the  festivities  by  which  those  present  are 
filled  with  delight  and  happiness.  And  we  are  indifferent 
about  the  eternal  blessings,  and  make  no  efforts  to  possess 
them ;  we  are  not  even  desirous  of  assisting  at  these  eternal 
festivities,  and,  though  deprived  of  them,  we  still  rejoice. 
Let  us  encourage  ourselves,  beloved  brethren ;  let  our 


THIRD  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER 


187 


faith  be  awakened  by  these  truths,  so  that  our  desires 
■  may  be  inflamed  with  love  for  the  eternal  goods ;  for  to 
love  them  is  the  only  way  to  reach  them.  Let  us  not  be 
prevented  by  any  adversity ;  for  this  place  of  happiness 
must  be  the  aim  of  our  efforts,  notwithstanding  all 
troubles  and  obstacles  encountered  in  the  way.  We 
should  be  like  a  foolish  traveller,  were  we  to  tarry  on  the 
road  looking  at  the  variety  of  flowers  and  the  beauty  of 
the  fields,  without  caring  to  reach  the  end  of  our  journey. 
All  our  desires  ought  to  take  us  to  the  lands  above,  our 
real  Fatherland.  Let  us  not  desire  the  goods  of  this 
world,  which  soon  forsake  us  ;  but,  wishing  to  be  faithful 
sheep  of  our  heavenly  Shepherd,  instead  of  loving  the 
worthless  enjoyments  of  this  life,  let  us  be  longing  after 
the  eternal  pastures  by  which  we  shall  be  made  happy 
for  ever.  Amen. 


THIRD  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER. 

Gospel:  John  xvi.  16-22.  At  that  time:  Jesus  said  to 
His  disciples :  A  little  while,  and  now  you  shall  not  see 
Me ;  and  again  a  little  while,  and  you  shall  see  Me ; 
because  I  go  to  the  Father.  Then  some  of  His  disciples 
said  one  to  another :  What  is  this  that  He  saith  to  us  : 
A  little  while,  and  ye  shall  not  see  Me;  and  again  a 
little  while,  and  you  shall  see  Me,  and  because  I  go  to 
the  Father  ?  They  said  therefore :  What  is  this  that 
He  saith:  A  little  while?  We  know  not  what  He 
speaketh.  And  Jesus  knew  that  they  had  a  mind  to  ask 
Him,  and  He  said  to  them :  Of  this  do  you  inquire 
among  yourselves,  because  I  said :  A  little  while,  and  you 
shall  not  see  Me  ;  and  again  a  little  while,  and  you  shall 
see  Me  ?  Amen,  amen,  I  say  to  you,  that  you  shall 
lament  and  weep,  but  the  world  shall  rejoice :  and  you 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


1 88 

shall  be  made  sorrowful,  but  your  sorrow  shall  be 
turned  into  joy.  A  woman,  when  she  is  in  labour, 
hath  sorrow,  because  her  hour  is  come :  but  when 
she  hath  brought  forth  the  child,  she  remembereth  no 
more  the  anguish,  for  joy  that  a  man  is  born  into  the 
world.  So  also  you  now  indeed  have  sorrow,  but  I  will 
see  you  again,  and  your  heart  shall  rejoice  ;  and  your  joy 
no  man  shall  take  from  you. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Tract  ioi  on  St.  John. 

I.  These  words  of  our  Lord,  where  He  says :  A  little 
while ,  and  now  you  shall  not  see  Me  ;  and  again  a  little  while , 
and  you  shall  see  Me ;  because  I  go  to  the  Father ,  seemed  to 
the  disciples  so  obscure,  before  the  fulfilment  of  what  He 
said,  that,  whilst  asking  themselves  what  they  meant, 
they  confessed  that  they  could  not  understand  them. 
The  Gospel  makes  this  remark,  for  it  goes  on  :  Then  some 
of  His  disciples  said  one  to  another  :  What  is  this  that  He  saith 
to  us :  A  little  while,  and  ye  shall  not  see  Me ;  and  again  a 
little  while ,  and  you  shall  see  Me,  and  because  I  go  to  the 
Father?  They  said  therefore:  What  is  this  that  He  saith: 
A  little  while  ?  We  know  not  what  He  speaketh .  For  this 
was  the  very  difficulty  that  staggered  them ;  He  said : 
A  little  while ,  and  now  you  shall  not  see  Me  ;  and  again  a  little 
while ,  and  you  shall  see  Me.  Yet,  when,  without  speaking 
of  the  short  time,  the  meaning  of  which  they  could  not 
understand,  He  had  before  that  said  to  them  :  I  go  to  the 
Father ;  and  you  shall  see  Me  no  longer ,  He  seemed  to  have 
spoken  openly,  and  they  were  not  astonished,  neither  did 
they  question  among  themselves  about  the  words.  Now, 
what  to  them  at  that  time,  before  its  fulfilment,  was  a 
mystery,  and  was  shown  to  them  only  later  on,  is  quite 


THIRD  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER 


189 


clear  and  intelligible  to  us.  For  after  a  little  while  He 
suffered,  and  they  saw  Him  not ;  again  after  a  little  while 
He  rose  again,  and  they  saw  Him.  And  when  before 
these  words  He  said  that  He  was  going  to  His  Father, 
and  that  they  should  see  Him  no  longer.  He  wished  them 
to  understand  that  they  would  see  Him  no  longer  in 
His  mortality. 

II.  And  Jesus  knew ,  as  the  Evangelist  continues  to  say ; 
That  they  had  a  mind  to  ask  Him ,  and  He  said  to  them :  Of 
this  do  you  inquire  among  yourselves ,  because  I  said  :  A  little 
while ,  and  you  shall  not  see  Me  ;  and  again  a  little  while ,  and 
you  shall  see  Me .  Amen ,  amen ,  I  say  to  you ,  that  you  shall 
lament  and  weep ,  but  the  world  shall  rejoice  :  and  you  shall  be 
made  sorrowful ,  but  your  sorrow  shall  be  turned  into  joy.  And 
the  disciples  experienced  all  this ;  for  they  were  made 
sorrowful  by  the  death  of  our  Lord,  and  again  were  made 
glad  by  His  Resurrection.  But  the  world — that  is,  the 
enemies  by  whom  Christ  was  killed — rejoiced  at  Christ’s 
being  put  to  death,  whilst  the  disciples  were  made 
sorrowful.  By  the  world,  of  which  our  Lord  speaks, 
is  undoubtedly  meant  the  wickedness  of  this  world, 
namely,  of  those  men  who  are  the  friends  of  the  world. 
Of  this  wickedness  St.  James  says  :  Whosoever  will  be  a 
friend  of  this  world ,  becometh  an  enemy  of  God  (Jas.  iv.  4). 
This  enmity  of  the  world  against  God  was  the  cause  of 
their  washing  their  hands  in  the  Blood  of  the  Son' of  God. 

III.  And  to  be  the  better  understood  by  His  disciples 
our  Lord  makes  use  of  a  similitude,  and  says :  A  woman , 
when  she  is  in  labour ,  hath  sorrow ,  because  her  hour  has  come  ; 
but  when  she  hath  brought  forth  the  child ,  she  remembereth  no 
more  the  anguish ,  for  joy  that  a  man  is  born  into  the  world . 
It  is  not  difficult  to  understand  this  similitude,  and  the 
point  of  comparison  is  seen  at  once  in  the  exposition 
given  by  Himself  of  its  meaning.  '  The  labour  is  com- 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


i  go 

pared  to  sorrow,  the  birth  to  joy.  And  this  joy  will  be 
the  greater  when  it  is  not  a  girl,  but  a  boy  that  is  born. 
This  is  a  figure  of  the  eternal  felicity  in  heaven,  a  fruit 
of  the  tribulations  of  the  just  on  earth.  However,  Jesus 
added  :  Your  heart  shall  rejoice  ;  and  your  joy  no  man  shall 
take  from  you.  He  thus  teaches  His  disciples  that  He 
Himself  will  be  their  joy,  that  He  will  never  be  taken 
from  them,  signifying  what  the  Apostle  says :  Christ 
rising  again  from  the  dead ,  dieth  now  no  more  ;  death  shall  no' 
more  have  dominion  over  Him  (Rom.  vi.  9). 

IV.  I  also  think  that  the  words :  I  will  see  you  again , 
and  your  heart  shall  rejoice  ;  and  your  joy  no  man  shall  take 
from  you,  are  not  to  be  referred  to  the  time  when  He  was 
risen  from  the  dead,  and  when  He  showed  them  His 
flesh  to  be  looked  at  and  touched,  but  rather  to  that 
time  of  which  He  had  already  spoken,  when  He  said  :  He 
that  loveth  Me ,  shall  he  loved  of  My  Father ;  and  I  will  love 
him ,  and  will  manifest  Myself  to  him  (John  xiv..  21).  In 
fact,  He  had  already  risen,  He  had  already  shown  Himself 
to  them  in  the  flesh,  and  He  was  already  sitting  at  the 
right  hand  of  His  Father,  when  this  same  Apostle  John, 
who  wrote  this  Gospel,  said  in  his  Epistle  :  Dearly  beloved , 
we  are  now  the  sons  of  God  ;  and  it  hath  not  yet  appeared  what 
we  shall  he.  We  know  that ,  when  He  shall  appear ,  we  shall  be 
like  to  Him  :  because  we  shall  see  Him  as  He  is  (1  John  iii.  2). 
This  vision,  therefore,  is  not  for  this  life,  but  for  the  life 
to  come  ;  it  is  not  temporal,  but  eternal.  For  He  that  is 
the  Truth  and  the  Life  says :  This  is  eternal  life ;  that  they 
may  know  Thee ,  the  only  true  God ,  and  Jesus  Christ ,  Whom 
Thou  hast  sent  (John  xvii.  3).  Of  this  blessed  seeing,  and 
this  perfect  knowing  the  Apostle  says :  We  see  now  through 
a  glass  in  a  dark  manner  ;  but  then  face  to  face .  Now  I  know 
in  part :  but  then  I  shall  know  even  as  I  am  known  (1  Cor. 
xiii.  12).  At  present  the  Church  is,  so  to  speak,  in  labour 


THIRD  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER  191 

by  her  desires,  but  then  she  will  rejoice  seeing  the  fruits  of 
her  efforts.  Now  she  labours  in  sorrow  and  amidst 
prayers ;  then  she  will  manifest  her  joy,  and  eternally 
praise  God  Who  delivered  her.  Then  she  will  arrive  at 
the  long  expected  end,  by  which  alone  she  can  be  satisfied ; 
that  end  of  which  St.  Philip,  inspired  by  the  Holy  Ghost, 
spoke  when  he  said  to  our  Saviour :  Show  us  the  Father , 
and  it  is  enough  for  us .  In  this  showing  of  the  Father, 
which  is  enjoyed  by  the  Saints  in  heaven,  the  Son  pro¬ 
mised  to  manifest  Himself,  saying :  Do  you  not  believe  that 
I  am  in  the  Father ,  and  the  Father  in  Me  ?  (John  xiv.  8-10), 
And  in  the  possession  of  this  blessing,  by  which  alone 
our  desires  can  be  perfectly  satisfied,  consists  our  happi¬ 
ness,  which,  as  our  Lord  said,  no  man  can  take  from  us. 

V.  This  little  while  of  which  until  now  we  have  been 
speaking,  must  also  be  referred  to  this  present  time,  flying 
away  with  such  rapidity  that  the  Apostle  says :  It  is  the 
last  hour  (1  John  ii.  18).  That  the  short  duration  of  time 
may  be  understood,  our  Lord  compared  Himself  to  a 
wanderer  on  earth,  for  He  said :  I  go  to  the  Father, 
These  words  have  reference  to  the  little  while  spoken 
of  to  His  disciples,  during  which  they  would  not  see 
Him,  and  not  to  that  other  time  when,  as  they  were 
assured,  they  would  see  him  again.  For,  from  the  time 
He  went  to  His  Father,  as  He  said  at  the  beginning,  He  . 
ceased  to  show  Himself  to  His  disciples.  Finally,  by 
these  words  a  little  while  we  are  given  to  understand 
the  short  space  of  the  times  in  which  we  live;  for  our 
Lord  did  not  say  to  His  Apostles  that  He  would  die, 
and  that  they  would  be  deprived  of  His  presence,  until 
the  day  of  His  Resurrection  ;  but  He  said  that  He  would 
go  to  His  Father,  as  it  was  done  on  the  day  of  His 
Ascension,  after  showing  Himselt  to  His  disciples,  and 
being  with  them  during  the  ' forty  days  following  His 


192 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


Resurrection.  As  to  these  words,  And  again  a  little  while , 
and  you  shall  see  Me ,  they  must  be  understood  of  the 
special  assistance  He  promised  to  His  Church,  when  on 
another  occasion  He  said  :  Behold  I  am  with  you  all  days , 
even  to  the  consummation  of  the  world  (Matt,  xxviii.  20). 
For  as  St.  Peter  says :  The  Lord  delayeth  not  His  promise 
(2  Peter  iii.  g) ;  and  after  a  little  while  we  shall  see  Him 
again,  when  there  shall  be  no  need  of  making  request, 
no  need  of  putting  questions,  because  there  shall  be 
nothing  left  to  be  desired,  nothing  hidden  to  be  inquired 
into.  This  little  while  seems  long  to  us,  because  it  is 
yet  going  on  in  our  life ;  but  when  it  shall  be  ended,  then 
we  shall  feel  how  short  it  was.  Let  not  .our  joy,  there¬ 
fore,  be  such  as  the  children  of  the  world  have,  of  whom 
our  Lord  says  :  The  world  shall  rejoice .  Yet  let  us  not  in 
our  labouring  with  this  desire  be  without  joy  ;  we  may 
be  sorrowful,  but,  as  the  Apostle  says,  Rejoicing  in  hope  ; 
patient  in  tribulation  (Rom.  xii.  12),  because  the  very 
mother  we  are  likened  to  is  more  rejoicing  over  the  off¬ 
spring  she  is  about  to  have,  than  she  is  sorrowful  for  her 
present  pains. 

FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER. 

Gospel:  John  xvi.  5-14.  At  that  time:  Jesus  said  to 
His  disciples :  I  go  to  Him  that  sent  Me  ;  and  none  of 
you  asketh  Me,  Whither  goest  Thou  ?  But  because  I 
have  spoken  these  things  to  you,  sorrow  hath  filled  your 
heart.  But  I  tell  you  the  truth  ;  it  is  expedient  to  you 
that  I  go  :  for  if  I  go  not,  the  Paraclete  will  not  come  to 
you ;  but  if  I  go,  I  will  send  Him  to  you.  And  when 
He  is  come,  He  will  convince  the  world  of  sin,  and  of 
justice,  and  of  judgment.  Of  sin  ;  because  they  believed 
not  in  Me.  And  of  justice  ;  because  I  go  to  the  Father  ; 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER  193 

and  you  shall  see  Me  no  longer ;  and  of  judgment, 
because  the  prince  of  this  world  is  already  judged.  I 
have  yet  many  things  to  say  to  you,  but  you  cannot  bear 
them  now.  But  when  He,  the  Spirit  of  truth,  is  come, 
He  will  teach  you  all  truth.  For  He  shall  not  speak  of 
Himself,  but  what  things  soever  He  shall  hear,  He  shall 
speak ;  and  the  things  that  are  to  come  He  shall  show 
you.  He  shall  glorify  Me,  because  He  shall  receive  of 
Mine,  and  shall  declare  it  to  you. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Tract  94  on  St.  John. 

I.  The  Lord  Jesus,  after  foretelling  His  disciples  the 
persecutions  they  would  have  to  suffer  after  His  depar¬ 
ture,  went  on  to  say :  But  I  told  you  not  these  things  from 
the  beginning ,  because  I  was  with  you .  And  now  I  go  to  Him 
that  sent  Me.  Let  us  first  inquire  whether  He  had  before 
this  moment  foretold  them  their  future  sufferings.  That 
He  had  done  so  before  the  night  of  the  Last  Supper  is 
testified  by  the  three  first  Evangelists ;  but  it  Avas  at  the 
end  of  that  supper  that,  according  to  St.  John,  He  spoke 
these  words  :  But  I  told  you  not  these  things  from  the  begin¬ 
ning ,  because  I  was  with  you .  Are  we,  then,  to  try  and  find 
the  solution  of  this  difficulty  by  asserting  that,  according 
to  those  three  Evangelists,  it  was  on  the  eve  of  the 
Passion,  though  before  the  supper,  that  He  had  said 
these  things  to  them  ?  That,  therefore,  not  from  the 
beginning  of  His  being  with  them,  but  when  He  was 
about  to  leave  them,  and  to  go  to  the  Father,  He  said 
these  things  ?  And  so,  even  according  to  those  Evan¬ 
gelists,  this  also  is  true  what  He  said  by  the  other :  But 
I  told  you  not  these  things  from  the  beginning.  But  then, 
what  credit  shall  we  attach  to  the  Gospel  according  to 

13 


194 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


St.  Matthew,  who  tells  us  that  our  Lord  spoke  to  His 
Apostles  of  these  things  concerning  their  sufferings,  not 
only  when  He  was  on  the  point  of  eating  the  Paschal 
Supper  with  them,  immediately  before  His  Passion,  but 
also  at  the  very  beginning,  when  the  names  of  the  twelve 
were  for  the  first  time  mentioned,  and  they  were  sent 
forth  to  do  the  Divine  works?  (Matt.  x.).  It  seems, 
then,  that  when  He  said,  But  I  told  you  not  these  things 
from  the  beginnings  because  I  was  ivith  youy  He  meant  by 
4  these  things  *  not  the  sufferings  they  were  to  bear  for  His 
sake,  but  His  promise  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  Who  should 
come  to  them  and  bear  witness  while  they  suffered. 
And  these  things  He  did  not  say  from  the  beginning, 
because  He  was  with  them. 

II.  This  Comforter,  then,  or  Advocate  (for  both  terms 
render  the  Greek  word  Paracletos ),  would  be  necessary  to 
them  when  they  saw  Christ  no  more  ;  and  this  is  the 
reason  why  He  had  not  spoken  of  Him  to  them  at  the 
beginning  of  His  public  life,  while  He  was  with  them, 
since  His  visible  presence  was  then  their  sufficient  com¬ 
fort.  But  now  that  He  was  about  to  depart  from  them, 
it  behoved  Him  to  tell  them  of  the  coming  of  that  Spirit, 
through  Whom  it  would  come  to  pass  that,  by  the  love 
infused  into  their  hearts,  they  should  preach  the  word  of 
God  with  boldness.  And  while  the  Holy  Ghost  inwardly 
— that  is,  within  them — bore  testimony  of  Christ,  they 
also  should  bear  witness,  and  feel  no  cause  of  stumbling 
when  their  enemies,  the  Jews,  should  put  them  out  of  the 
synagogues  and  kill  them,  imagining  that  they  were  doing 
a  service  to  God  ;  for  ‘  charity  endureth  all  things  ’  (i  Cor. 
xiii.  7),  and  that  charity  of  God  was  poured  forth  in  their 
hearts  by  the  Holy  Ghost  given  to  them  (Rom.  v.  5). 
This,  then,  is  the  whole  meaning  of  His  discourse,  namely, 
that  He  would  make  them  His  martyrs— that  is,  witnesses 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER  195 

— through  the  Holy  Ghost ;  so  that  by  His  working  they 
should  endure  any  amount  of  persecutions,  and  not  grow 
cold  in  their  preaching,  being  then  inflamed  by  that 
Divine  fire.  But  these  things ,  He  said,  I  have  told  you 
that ,  when  the  hour  shall  come ,  you  may  remember  that  I  told 
you  of  them .  These  things,  therefore,  I  have  told  you,  not 
only  that  you  suffer  them,  but  also  that,  when  the  Para¬ 
clete  is  come,  He  shall  bear  testimony  that  you  may  not 
keep  silence  through  fear,  when  you  ought  to  speak,  but 
you  also  shall  bear  testimony  to  Me/ 

III,  And  when  our  Lord  said,  Now  I  go  to  Him  that 
sent  Me ,  and  none  of  you  askethMe9  Whither  goest  Thou?  He 
wished  to  intimate  that  He  was  about  to  go  in  their 
presence,  and  in  such  a  manner,  that  it  would  be  useless 
to  ask  to  what  place  He  was  going.  For  previously  to 
this  they  had  asked  Him  whither  He  was  going,  and  He 
had  answered  that  He  was  going  whither  they  at  that 
time  could  not  come.  But  now  He  declared  that  His 
going  will  be  in  such  a  manner,  that  none  of  them  shall 
ask  whither  He  goes.  For  when  He  ascended  into 
heaven,  a  cloud  received  Him  ;  and  as  He  went,  they 
asked  not  in  words  whithev9  but  with  their  eyes  they 
escorted  Him  thither . 

IV.  Jesus  saw  what  effect  these  words  about  His  going 
produced  in  the  hearts  of  His  disciples,  and  He  said  : 
Because  I  have  spoken  these  things  to  you ,  sorrow  hath  filled 
your  heart.  Indeed,  they  had  not  yet  the  spiritual  con¬ 
solation  which  they  were  to  receive  through  the  Holy 
Ghost,  who  would  fill  them  with  His  gifts.  They  feared, 
therefore,  to  lose  the  visible  presence  of  their  Master  ;  and, 
because  they  could  not  doubt  that  He  spoke  the  truth, 
their  human  affection  was  saddened,  being  convinced 
that  their  carnal  sight  of  Him  would  be  left  desolate. 
However,  He  knew  what  was  most  expedient  to  them, 

13—2 


196 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


because  that  inner  sight,  wherewith  the  Holy  Spirit  should 
console  them,  was  assuredly  superior.  This  Spirit  would 
not  present  a  human  body  before  the  bodies  of  men,  that 
they  should  see  Him,  but  He  would  infuse  Himself  into 
the  hearts  of  men  who  believed.  And  Jesus  goes  on  to 
say  :  But  I  tell  you  the  truth  ;  it  is  expedient  to  you  that  I  go  ; 
for  if  I  go  not ,  the  Paraclete  will  not  come  to  yon;  hut  if  I  go, 
I  will  send  Him  to  you.  As  though  He  said  :  It  is  expedient 
to  you  that  this  human  form  of  a  servant  be  taken  from 
you.  I  am  indeed  the  Word  made  flesh  dwelling  among 
you  ;  but  I  do  not  wish  you  to  love  only  My  corporeal  and 
carnal  presence,  and,  content  with  this  milk,  desire  to  be 
always  infants.  If  you  suffer  not  the  tender  aliments, 
wherewith  I  have  fed  you,  to  be  withdrawn  from  you,  you 
will  never  be  longing  for  solid  meat.  If  in  a  carnal  way 
you  cleave  only  to  the  flesh  you  see  in  Me,  you  will  never 
be  worthy  to  receive  the  communications  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.  But  what  is  the  meaning  of  these  words ;  If  I  go 
not ,  the  Paraclete  will  not  come  to  you  ;  but  if  I  go ,  I  will  send 
Him  to  you  ?  Who  would  say  that  our  Lord,  whilst  on 
earth  with  His  disciples,  had  not  the  power  to  send  them 
the  Holy  Ghost  ?  For  it  must  not  be  imagined  that  He 
had  left  the  place  where  that  Spirit  was,  and  that  He  had 
been  sent  by  His  Father  in  such  a  way  as  not  to  abide 
with  the  Father  any  longer.  Who  will  believe  that  Jesus 
Christ  had  not  the  power,  even  when  still  on  earth,  to 
send  the  Holy  Ghost,  Who,  as  we  know,  came  upon 
Him  at  His  baptism  in  the  Jordan,  and  remained  upon 
Him,  and  from  Whom,  indeed,  we  know  that  He  was 
never  separable  ?  Then  the  meaning  of,  If  I  go  not ,  the 
Comforter  will  not  come  to  you,  will  be  :  You  cannot  receive 
the  Spirit,  as  you  persist  in  knowing  Christ  after  the  flesh 
and  loving  Him  in  the  flesh.  Whence  St.  Paul,  who 
also  had  received  the  Spirit,  says  :  If  we  have  known  Christ 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER  197 

according  to  the  flesh ,  but  notv  we  know  Him  so  no  longer 
(2  Cor.  v.  16).  For,  even  how  he  did  not  know  the  flesh 
of  Christ  in  a  carnal  way,  until  brought  to  a  spiritual 
knowledge  of  the  Word  that  has  been  made  flesh.  And 
surely  our  good  Master  wished  to  intimate  this,  when  He 
said  :  If  I  go  not ,  the  Comforter  will  not  come  to  you;  but  if  I 
go9  I  will  send  Him  to  you . 

V.  Let  us  also  believe  that,  when  Christ  bodily  with¬ 
drew  from  the  presence  of  His  disciples,  not  only  the 
Holy  Ghost,  but  both  the  Father  and  the  Son  were  pre¬ 
sent  to  them  spiritually.  For  if  Christ  departed  from 
them  in  such  a  manner  that  the  Holy  Ghost  was  in  them, 
instead  of  Him  and  without  Him,  what  becomes  of  His 
promise  :  Behold ,  I  am  with  you  all  days9  even  to  the  consum¬ 
mation  of  the  world  ?  And  how  can  we  explain  these  other 
words  of  our  Redeemer :  We  will  come  to  him9  I  and  the 
Father,  and  will  make  Our  abode  with  him ,  seeing  that  He 
had  promised  to  send  the  Holy  Ghost  in  such  a  way  as 
to  be  Himself  with  them  to  the  end  of  the  world  ?  In 
this  way  it  was,  on  the  other  hand,  that  seeing  they  were 
out  of  their  carnal  or  animal  condition  to  become  spiritual, 
they  were  also,  with  undoubted  certainty,  to  have  both 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  in  a  more 
comprehensive  way.  But  we  are  not  to  believe  that  the 
Father  is  present  in  any  man  without  the  Son  and  the 
Holy  Ghost,  or  the  Father  and  the  Son  without  the  Holy 
Ghost,  or  the  Son  without  the  Father  and  the  Holy 
Ghost,  or  the  Holy  Ghost  without  the  Father  and  the 
Son,  or  the  Father  and  the  Holy  Ghost  without  the 
Son.  But  wherever  any  one  of  them  is,  there  also  is  the 
Trinity,  one  God.  Here,  however,  the  notion  of  the 
Trinity  had  to  be  suggested  in  such  a  manner  that, 
though  there  was  no  diversity  of  substance,  yet,  by  the 
several  mentioning  of  each  Person,  we  should  be  in- 


198 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


formed  of  the  distinction  of  the  Persons,  of  Whom,  to 
them  that  rightly  understand/there  can  never  be  a  sepa¬ 
ration  of  Natures. 

VI.  Our  Lord,  when  promising  that  He  would  send 
the  Holy  Ghost,  said :  When  He  is  come,  He  will  convince 
the  world  of  sin,  and  of  justice,  and  of  judgment.  What  does 
this  mean  ?  Did  not  the  Lord  Jesus  convince  the  world 
of  sin  when  He  said  :  If  I  had  not  come  and  spoken  to  them, 
they  would  not  have  sin  ;  but  now  they  have  no  excuse  for  their 
sins  (John  xv.  22).  And,  that  no  one  may  take  it  into 
his  head  to  say  that  this  applied  properly  to  the  Jews, 
and  *not  to  the  world  in  general,  He  said  in  another 
place :  If  you  had  been  of  the  world,  the  world  would  love  its 
own  (xv.  22).  Did  He  not  convince  the  world  of  justice, 
saying :  0  just  Father,  the  world  hath  not  known  Thee  ? 
(xvii.  23).  Again,  did  He  not  convince  the  world  of 
judgment,  when  He  declared  that  He  would  say  to  those 
on  the  left  hand  :  Depart  from  Me,  you  cursed,  into  everlast¬ 
ing  fire,  which  was  prepared  for  the  devil  and  his  angels  ? 
(Matt.  xxv.  41).  And  many  other  passages  are  found  in 
the  holy  Gospel,  where  Christ  convinced  the  world  of 
these  things.  How  is  it,  then,  that  He  attributes  this  to 
the  Holy  Ghost,  as  if  it  properly  belonged  to  Him  ?  Is 
it,  perhaps,  that,  because  Christ  spoke  only  among  the 
nation  of  the  Jews,  He  does  not  appear  to  have  reproved 
the  world,  so  that  he  only  be  understood  to  be  reproved, 
who  actually  hears  the  reprover?  Yet  the  Holy  Ghost, 
Who  was  in  His  disciples  when  scattered  through  the 
world,  is  understood  as  having  reproved  not  one  nation, 
but  the  whole  world.  For,  notice  what  He  said  to  them 
when  about  to  ascend  into  heaven:  It  is  not  for  you  to 
know  the  times  or  moments,  which  the  Father  hath  put  in  His 
own  power  ;  but  you  shall  receive  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
coming  upon  you,  and  you  shall  be  witnesses  unto  Me  in  Jerusalem, 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER  igg 

and  in  all  Jndcea  and  Samaria ,  and  [even  to  the  uttermost  part 
of  the  earth  (Acts  i.  7,  8).  Surely  this  is  to  reprove  or 
convince  the  whole  world.  But  who  would  venture  to 
say  that  through  the  disciples  of  Christ  the  Holy  Ghost 
reproves  the  world,  and  that  Christ  Himself  does  not, 
when  the  Apostle  exclaims  :  Do  yon  seek  a  proof  of  Christ 
that  speaketh  in  me  ?  (2  Cor.  xiii.  3).  When,  therefore, 
the  Holy  Ghost  reproves,  assuredly  Christ  also  reproves. 
But,  in  my  opinion,  because  there  was  to  be  poured  forth 
in  their  heart  that  charity  (Rom.  v.  5),  which  casteth  out  fear 
(1  John  iv.  18),  by  which  fear  they  might  have  been 
hindered  from*  daring  to  reprove  the  world,  roaring  at 
them  with  persecutions,  He  said :  He  shall  convince 
(refrove)  the  world .  Being  then  strengthened  by  the 
Holy  Ghost,  they  reproved  the  world  without  fearing 
either  torture  or  death.  We  have  often  mentioned  that 
the  operations  of  the  Trinity  are  not  separable,  yet  there 
was  need  to  set  forth  the  Persons  one  by  one,  that,  with¬ 
out  separating  Them  nor  confounding  Them  together, 
we  may  have  a  clear  understanding  of  Their  Unity  and 
Trinity. 

FIFTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER. 

Gospel:  John  xvi.  23-30.  At  that  time:  Jesus  said  to 
His  disciples :  Amen,  amen,  I  say  to  you  ;  if  you  ask 
the  Father  anything  in  My  name,  He  will  give  it  you. 
Hitherto  you  have  not  asked  anything  in  My  name. 
Ask,  and  you  shall  receive ;  that  your  joy  may  be  full. 
These  things  I  have  spoken,  to  you  in  proverbs.  *  The 
hour  cometh  when  I  will  no  more  speak  to  you  in 
proverbs,  but  will  show  you  plainly  of  the  Father.  In 
that  day  you  shall  ask  in  My  name,  and  I  say  not  to  you, 
that  I  will  ask  the  Father  for  you.  For  the  Father  Him- 


2£)D  * 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


self  loveth  you,  because  you  have  loved  Me,  and  have 
believed  that  I  came  out  from  God.  I  came  forth  from 
the  Father,  and  am  come  into  the  world ;  again  I  leave 
the  world,  and  I  go  to  the  Father.  His  disciples  say  to 
Him  :  Behold,  now  Thou  speakest  plainly,  and  speakest 
no  proverbs.  Now  we  know  that  Thou  knowest  all 
things,  and  Thou  needest  not  that  any  man  should  ask 
Thee.  By  this  we  believe  that  Thou  comest  forth  from 
God. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Tract  102  on  St.  John. 

I.  The  words  of  our  Lord,  which  you  are  now  to  con¬ 
sider,  are  these  :  A  men ,  amen ,  I  say  to  you  :  if  you  ask  the 
Father  anything  in  My  name ,  He  will  give  it  you .  It  has 
already  been  said  in  the  earlier  part  of  this  discourse  of 
the  Lord,  with  regard  to  those  who  ask  some  things  of  the 
Father  in  Christ’s  name,  and  receive  them  not,  that  what¬ 
soever  is  asked  and  tends  not  to  salvation,  is  not  asked  in 
the  name  of  the  Redeemer.  For,  not  the  sounds  of  letters 
and  syllables,  but  what  the  sound  signifies,  and  what  by 
that  sound  is  honestly  and  truly  understood,  that  He 
is  regarded  to  declare,  when  saying  :  In  My  name- 
Hence,  he  that  has  such  ideas  of  Christ  as  ought  not  to 
be  entertained  of  the  only  Son  of  God,  is  not  asking  in 
His  name,  though  he  may  not  abstain  from  mentioning 
the  name  of  Christ  in  so  many  letters  and  syllables  ; 
because  by  that  sound  he  means  not  the  real  Christ,  but 
a  fancied  being,  who  has  no  existence  but  in  the  speaker’s 
imagination.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  whosoever  thinks 
of  Christ  as  he  ought  to,  this  one  is  asking  in  Christ’s  name, 
and  will  receive,  provided  he  ask  for  nothing  against  his 
own  salvation  ;  and  if  it  be  good  for  him  to  receive,  he  will 
receive.  Some  things  are  not  given  at  once,  but  are 


FIFTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER 


20! 


deferred,  that  they  may  be  given  at  a  more  suitable  time. 
This  is  the  true  interpretation  of  the  words :  He  will  give 
it  you — that  is,  those  benefits  or  blessings  will  be  given 
which  are  good  to  them  that  ask.  All  the  saints  are 
heard,  when  asking  for  themselves,  but  not  necessarily 
when  asking  for  others,  whether  friends  or  enemies ; 
because  it  is  not  said  in  a  general  way,  He  will  give ,  but 
He  will  give  it  yon . 

II.  Hitherto ,  says  the  Lord,  you  have  not  asked  anything 
in  My  name.  Ash,  and  you  shall  receive ,  that  your  joy  may  be 
full .  This  joy  of  theirs,  which  He  calls  full,  is  not  to  be 
understood  as  meaning  a  carnal  joy,  but  a  spiritual  one. 
When  that  joy  is  so  great,  that  it  cannot  be  increased  any 
more,  then  it  will  undoubtedly  be  full.  Whatsoever,  then, 
is  asked  for  the  fulfilment  of  this  joy — viz.,  grace  and 
everlasting  life — is  a  thing  that  is  just  and  meet  to  ask  in 
the  name  of  Christ.  Should  we  ask  anything  else,  and 
not  this,  we  ask  nothing,  though  we  actually  ask  some¬ 
thing  ;  because  in  comparison  with  this  all  other  things 
we  covet  are  nothing.  If  we  say  that  man  is  something, 
we  hear  the  Apostle,  saying  :  If  any  man  think  himself  to  be 
something ,  whereas  he  is  nothing ,  hedeceiveth  himself  (Gal.  vi.  3). 
But  the  fact  is,  that  in  comparison  with  the  spiritual  man, 
who  knows  that  by  the  grace  of  God  only  he  is  what  he 
is,  the  one  who  entertains  vain  presumptions  is  nothing. 
In  this  way,  therefore,  may  those  words  be  rightly 
understood  :  Amen ,  amen ,  I  say  to  you  :  if  you  ask  the  Father 
anything  in  My  name ,  He  will  give  it  you  ;  so  that  by  the 
word  anything  should  not  be  understood  any  thing  that  we 
please,  but  any  thing  that  is  not  considered  nothing  in 
connection  with  a  blessed  life.  And  the  following  words : 
Hitherto  you  have  not  asked  anything  in  My  name ,  may  be 
understood  in  two  ways  :  either,  that  you  have  not  asked 
in  My  name,  because  you  have  not  known  this  name,  as  it 


202 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


ought  to  be  known ;  or  you  have  not  asked  anything, 
because,  in  comparison  with  the  things  you  ought  to  have 
asked,  what  you  have  asked  is  to  be  accounted  as  nothing. 
And  that  they  may  ask  in  His  name,  not  that  which  is 
nothing,  but  a  full  joy — since  if  they  ask  anything  else, 
that  anything  is  nothing, — He  addressed  to  them  this 
exhortation  :  Ask ,  and  you  shall  receive;  that  your  joy  may  be 
full — that  is,  ask  this  in  My  name,  that  your  joy  may  be 
full,  and  you  shall  receive.  For  His  saints,  who  persevere 
in  asking  such  a  good  thing  will,  by  the  mercy  of  God, 
never  be  defrauded. 

III.  These  things ,  He  said,  I  have  spoken  to  you  in  pro¬ 
verbs .  The  hour  cometh  when  I  will  no  more  speak  to  you  in 
proverbs ,  but  will  show  you  plainly  of  the  Father .  The  hour 
of  which  He  speaks  might  be  supposed  to  mean  the 
world  to  come,  when  we  shall  see  openly  as  St.  Paul  says, 
face  to  face ;  and  that  what  He  says,  These  things  I  have 
spoken  to  you  in  proverbs ,  should  be  understood  by  the  words 
of  the  same  Apostle  :  We  see  now  through  a  glass  in  a  dark 
manner  (i  Cor.  xiii.  12).  But  I  will  show  yon,  because  the 
Father  shall  be  seen  through  the  instrumentality  of  the 
Son,  according  to  what  is  said  elsewhere  :  Neither  doth 
anyone  know  the  Father ,  but  the  Son ,  and  he  to  whom  it  shall 
please  the  Son  to  reveal  Him  (Matt.  xi.  27).  But  this  sense 
seems  to  be  interfered  with  by  what  follows  :  In  that  day 
you  shall  ask  in  My  name .  For  in  the  future  world,  when  we 
have  reached  the  kingdom,  where  we  shall  be  like  to  Him , 
because  we  shall  see  Him  as  He  is  (1  John  iii.  2),  what 
shall  we  then  have  to  ask,  when  our  desires  shall  be 
satisfied  with  good  things  ?  (Ps.  cii.  5).  In  another  Psalm 
it  is  also  -said:  I  shall  be  satisfied  when  Thy  glory  shall 
appear  (Ps.  xvi.  15).  The  asking  for  anything  implies 
need,  which  cannot  have  any  place  there,  where  this 
fulness  of  satisfaction  shall  be  attained  and  reign. 


FIFTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER  203 

IV.  It  remains,  therefore,  for  us,  as  far  as  I  can  conceive 
the  matter,  to  understand  Jesus  as  having  promised  His 
disciples  that,  of  carnal  or  animal,  they  should  through 
Him  become  spiritual,  though  not  yet  such  as  we  shall 
be,  when  a  spiritual  body  shall  also  be  ours,  but  such  as 
he  was  who  said  :  We  speak  zvisdom  among  the  perfect 
(1  Cor.  ii.  6),  and  I  could  not  speak  to  yoxi  as  unto  spiritual , 
but  as  unto  carnal  (1  Cor.  iii.  1)  ;  and  :  We  have  received  not 
the  spirit  of  this  world ,  but  the  Spirit  that  is  of  God ,  that  we 
may  know  the  things  that  are  given  us  from  God .  Which 
things  we  also  speak ,  not  in  the  words  of  human  wisdom ,  but  in 
the  doctrine  of  the  Spirit ,  comparing  spiritual  things  with 
spiritual .  But  the  sensual  man  perceiveth  not  those  things  that 
are  of  the  Spirit  of  God  (1  Cor.  ii.  12-14).  And  thus  the 
sensual  man  hears  in  such  a  way  whatsoever  is  told  him 
of  the  nature  of  God,  that  he  can  conceive  of  nothing  else 
but  some  bodily  form,  however  spacious  or  immense, 
however  bright  and  splendid,  yet  still  a  body.  They  are, 
therefore,  proverbs  to  him,  whatsoever  is  said  of  the 
incorporeal  and  immutable  substance  of  wisdom.  Not 
that  he  accounts  them  as  proverbs  or  riddles,  but  because 
his  thoughts  follow  the  same  direction  as  those  who 
usually  listen  to  proverbs  without  understanding  them. 
But  the  . spiritual  man,  who  judges  all  things  and  is 
judged  by  no  one,  perceives,  though  in  this  life  it  still  be 
i  through  a  glass,'  and  *  in  part,'  He  perceives,  not  by  any 
bodily  sense,  and  not  by  any  imaginative  conception, 
which  takes  in  or  fancies  the  likenesses  of  all  sorts  of 
bodies,  but  by  the  clearest  understanding  of  the  mind, 
that  God  is  not  a  body,  but  a  Spirit.  In  such  a  way  does 
the  Son  of  God  openly  show  us  of  the  Father,  that  He 
Who  thus  reveals,  is  also  Himself  of  the  same  substance 
as  the  Father.  Thus  we  see  how  it  is  that  those  who  are 
asking,  ask  in  His  name,  because  they  know  that  to  ask 


204 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


in  this  name,  is  to  ask  in  the  name  of  God.  They  do  not, 
in  vanity  or  weakness  of  mind,  fancy  to  themselves  the 
Father  being  in  one  place  and  the  Son  in  another ;  the 
Son  humbly  standing  before  the  Father  and  making 
request  in  our  behalf;  both,  in  the  material  substance 
occupying  each  its  own  place,  and  the  Word  pleading 
verbally  for  us  with  Him  Whose  Word  He  is,  whilst  a 
definite  space  exists  between  the  speaker’s  mouth  and  the 
hearer’s  ears.  Such  absurdities  are  fabricated  for  them¬ 
selves  in  their  own  hearts  by  those  who  are  natural  and 
also  carnal.  But  such  things,  suggested  by  the  experi¬ 
ence  of  bodily  habits,  if  occurring  to  spiritual  men  when 
thinking  of  God,  are  at  once  denied,  rejected,  and  driven 
away,  like  troublesome  flies,  from  the  eyes  of  their  mind. 
They  rest  in  the  sincerity  of  that  light,  by  whose  testi¬ 
mony  and  judgment  they  prove  how  utterly  false  are 
these  bodily  images  that  haunt  their  inward  vision. 
They  are  able,  to  a  certain  extent,  to  think  of  our.  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  as  Man  addressing  the  Father  on  our  behalf ; 
but  as  God  hearing  our  prayers  with  the  Father.  And 
this,  I  suppose,  He  wished  to  indicate,  when  He  said  :  I 
say  not  to  you  that  I  will  ask  the  Father  for  you .  But  the 
perception  of  this,  that  the  Son  asks  not  the  Father,  but 
that  Father  and  Son  together  hear  those  who  ask,  this 
height  of  conception  can  be  reached  only  by  the  spiritual 
eye  of  the  mind. 

V.  For  the  Father  Himself  loveth  you ,  because  you  have  loved 
Me.  Does  He  love  because  we  love — or,  rather,  do  we 
love  because  He  loves  ?  Let  the  same  Evangelist 
answer  out  of  his  own  epistle :  We  love  Gody  he  says, 
because  God  first  hath  loved  us  (i  John  iv.  19).  This,  there¬ 
fore,  is  the  cause  of  our  love,  namely,  that  we  were  loved  ; 
for  to  love  God  is  the  gift  of  God.  He,  while  still  un¬ 
loved,  gave  us  the  grace  to  love  Him.  We  were  loved, 


FIFTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER  205 

even  when  displeasing  Him,  that  there  might  be  in  us 
that  whereby  we  should  be  pleasing  in  His  sight ;  for 
we  could  not  love  the  Son  unless  we  also  loved  the 
Father.  The  Father  loves  us,  because  we  love  the  Son, 
since  we  have  received  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  the 
power  to  love  both  the  Father  and  the  Son.  For  love 
is  poured  forth  into  our  hearts  by  the  Spirit  of  both ; 
by  which  Spirit  we  love  both  the  Father  and  the  Son, 
and  Him  Whom  we  love  together  with  the  Son  and 
the  Father.  God,  therefore,  it  was,  Who  made  that  re¬ 
ligious  love  of  ours,  whereby  we  worship  Him,  and  He 
saw  that  it  was  good.  Therefore  He  loved  what  He 
made  ;  but  He  would  not  have  made  in  us  anything 
He  could  love,  were  it  not  that  He  loved  us  before  He 
made  us. 

VI.  And  Jesus  added:  1  You  have  believed  that  I  came  out 
from  God .  I  came  forth  from  the  Father ,  and  am  come  into  the 
world ;  again  I  leave  the  world ,  and  I  go  to  the  Father .  Yes, 
we  have  believed.  Surely  it  ought  not  to  be  thought  a 
thing  incredible,  only  because  that,  in  coming  into  the 
world,  He  came  in  such  a  manner  out  of  the  Father,  as 
not  to  quit  the  Father,  and,  in  leaving  the  world,  He  went 
to  the  Father  in  such  a  manner,  as  not  to  forsake  the 
world.  For  He  came  forth  from  the  Father,  because  He 
is  of  the  Father,  and  He  came  into  the  world  showing 
His  bodily  form,  which  He  took  to  Himself  of  the  Virgin 
Mary.  He  left  the  world  by  a  bodily  withdrawal ;  He 
went  to  the  Father  by  His  Ascension  as  Man,  yet  He 
quitted  not  the  world  in  the  ruling  activity  of  His 
presence. 

VII.  Everywhere  throughout  the  Gospels,  the  inward 
state  of  Christ’s  disciples  is  declared  by  many  testi¬ 
monies,  when  before  His  Passion  He  talketh  with  them, 
as  with  children,  of  great  things.  But  He  spoke  in  such 


206 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


a  way,  as  was  meet  that  great  things  should  be  spoken  of 
to  children.  Not  having  yet  received  the  Holy  Ghost, 
as  they  did  after  His  Resurrection,  either  by  His  breath¬ 
ing  upon  them,  or  by  the  descent  from  above,  they  had  a 
mental  capacity  for  the  things  of  men  rather  than  the 
things  of  God.  This  is  also  declared  by  what  they  said 
•in  the  lesson  before  us.  For,  says  the  Evangelist  :  His 
disciples  say  to  Him ;  Behold ,  now  Thou  speakest  plainly ,  and 
speakest  no  proverbs .  Now  we  know  that  Thou  knowest  all 
things ,  and  Thou  needest  not  that  any  man  should  ask  Thee. 
By  this  we  believe  that  Thou  contest  forth  from  God .  The 
Lord  Himself  had  said  just  before:  These  things  I  have 
spoken  to  you  in  proverbs.  The  hour  cometh  when  I  will  no 
more  speak  to  you  in  proverbs.  How  is  it,  then,  that  they 
say  :  Behold ,  now  Thou  speakest  plainly ,  and  speakest  no  pro¬ 
verbs  ?  Was  the  hour  now  come,  when  He  had  promised 
He  would  no  more  speak  to  them  in  proverbs?  No; 
that  such  an  hour  was  not  yet  come  is  shown  by  the  con¬ 
tinuation  of  His  words,  which  are  as  follows  :  These  things 
I  have  spoken  to  you  in  proverbs.  The  hour  cometh  when  I 
will  no  more  speak  to  you  in  proverbs ,  but  will  show  you  plainly 
of  the  Father .  In  that  day  you  shall  ask  in  My  name ,  and  I 
say  not  to  you  that  I  mil  ask  the  Father  for  you.  For  the 
Father  Himself  loveth  you ,  because  you  have  loved  Me ,  and 
have  believed  that  I  came  out  from  God.  I  -came  forth  from 
the  Father ,  and  am  come  into  the  world ;  again  I  leave  the 
world ,  and  I  go  to  the  Father.  Since  throughout  all  these 
words  He  is  still  promising  that  hour,  when  He  shall  no 
more  speak  in  proverbs,  but  shall  show  them  openly  the 
Father,  why  do  they  say  :  Behold ,  now  Thou  speakest plainly , 
and  speakest  no  proverbs ^  except  because  the  things  He  knows 
to  be  proverbs  to  those  that  have  no  understanding,  they 
are  still  so  far  from  understanding,  that  they  do  not  even 
know  that  they  do  not  understand  them  ?  For  they  were 


207 


ASCENSION  DAY 

babes,  and  had  no  spiritual  discernment  of  what  they 
heard  regarding  things  which  pertained  not  to  the  body, 
but  to  the  spirit. 


ASCENSION  DAY. 

Gospel  :  Mark  xvi.  14-20.  At  that  time:  Jesus  appeared 
to  the  eleven  as  they  were  at  table ;  and  He  upbraided 
them  with  their  incredulity  and  hardness  of  heart,  because 
they  did  not  believe  them  who  had  seen  Him  after  He 
was  risen  again.  And  He  said  to  them :  Go  ye  into  the 
whole  world  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature. 
He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved ;  but 
he  that  believeth  not  shall  be  condemned.  And  these 
signs  shall  follow  them  that  believe :  in  My  name  they 
shall  cast  out  devils ;  they  shall  speak  with  new  tongues ; 
they  shall  take  up  serpents ;  and  if  they  shall  drink  any 
deadly  thing,  it  shall  not  hurt  them  ;  they  shall  lay  hands 
upon  the  sick,  and  they  shall  recover.  And  the  Lord 
Jesus,  after  He  had  spoken  to  them,  was  taken  up  to 
heaven,  and  sitteth  on  the  right  hand  of  God.  But  they, 
going,  preached  everywhere,  the  Lord  working  withal, 
and  confirming  the  word  with  signs  that  followed. 

-  HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
CHURCH  OF  ST.  PETER  ON  THE  FEAST  OF  THE 
ASCENSION  OF  OUR  LORD. 

Twenty-ninth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  The  slowness  of  the  disciples  to  believe  that  the 
Lord  had  indeed  risen  from  the  dead  was  not  so  much, 
if  I  may  be  allowed  to  say  so,  a  sign  of  their  weakness, 
as  the  motive  of  Divine  Providence  to  strengthen  us  in 
our  faith.  Indeed,  the  consequence  of  their  doubts  was 


208 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


the  demonstration  of  the  Resurrection  by  many  infallible 
proofs.  And  we  read  and  acknowledge  these  proofs,  and 
our  faith  is  assured  by  the  disciples’  doubt.  For  my 
part,  I  do  not  put  so  much  trust  in  Mary  Magdalen,  who 
believed  at  once,  as  in  Thomas,  who  doubted  so  long ; 
for  by  his  doubting  he  came  actually  to  touch  the  Lord’s 
wounds,  and  thereby  closed  up  any  wound  of  doubt  in 
our  own  hearts.  However,  to  confirm  to  our  minds  the 
truth  of  the  Resurrection  of  our  Lord,  we  do  well  to  take 
notice  of  one  of  the  statements  of  St.  Luke :  Eating 
together  with  them,  He  commanded  them  that  they  should  not 
depart,  from  Jerusalem  (Acts  i.  4);  and  a  little  afterwards: 
While  they  looked  on,  He  was  raised  up,  and  a  cloud  received  Him 
out  of  their  sight  (ver.  9).  He  ate,  and  ascended  ;  so  that 
the  fact  of  His  eating  might  show  the  reality  of  His  body 
in  which  He  went  up.  But  St.  Mark  tells  us  that  before 
the  Lord  ascended  into  heaven,  He  upbraided  His  dis¬ 
ciples  with  their  incredulity  and  hardness  of  heart.  I 
know  not  what  we  should  gather  from  this,  unless  that 
the  Lord  then  reproached  His  disciples,  from  whom  He 
was  about  to  be  parted  in  the  body,  to  this  end,  that  the 
words  He  spoke  to  them,  as  He  left  them,  might  be  the 
deeper  imprinted  on  their  hearts. 

II.  And  when  He  had  rebuked  the  hardness  of  their 
heart,  what  command  did  He  give  them  ?  Listen  :  Go 
ye  into  the  whole  world ,  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature. 
Was,  then,  the  holy  Gospel  to  be  preached  to  things 
insensate,  or  to  brute  animals,  that  the  Lord  said  to  His 
disciples  :  Preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature  ?  No ;  but  by 
the  words  every  creature  we  must  understand  man,  who 
possesses  qualities  pertaining  to  all  creatures.  He  has 
being  in  common  with  stones,  life  in  common  with  trees, 
feeling  in  common  with  beasts,  and  understanding  in 
common  with  angels.  If,  then,  man  has  something  in 


ASCENSION  DA  Y 


2og 

common  with  every  creature,  man  is  to  some  extent 
every  creature.  And  if  the  Gospel  is  preached  to  man 
only,  it  is  preached  to  every  creature,  because  man  has 
dominion  over  all  things  created  by  God  on  earth,  and 
because  every  thing  created  has  in  itself  something  like 
to  man.  However,  we  may  also  suppose  that  the  inten¬ 
tion  of  Jesus,  commanding  His  Apostles  to  preach  the 
Gospel  to  every  creature,  was  to  give  them  to  understand 
that  His  Gospel  was  to  be  preached  to  all  the  nations  in 
the  world.  On  a  former  occasion  He  had  told  them  not 
to  go  to  the  Gentiles,  but  now  He  commanded  them  to 
preach  to  all  men.  When,  therefore,  the  Jews  despised 
the  preaching  of  the  Apostles  announcing  Jesus  Christ, 
the  preachers  turned  to  the  Gentiles  and  were  listened 
to.  For,  instead  of  imitating  the.  pernicious  pride  and 
obstinacy  of  the  Jews,  the  Gentiles  humbly  submitted  to 
the  yoke  of  the  Gospel.  When  the  Apostles  were  sent 
by  the  Eternal  Truth  to  preach  to  the  wor^d,  a  most 
precious  seed  was  sown,  which  seems  very  small,  but 
which,  through  faith,  will  soon  bring  forth  a  rich  harvest. 
How  could  the  number  of  the  faithful  have  increased  in 
the  world  in  such  marvellous  manner,  had  not  the  hand 
of  the  Almighty  spread  abroad  among  the  different 
nations  the  small  number  of  Apostles  chosen  for  the 
purpose  of  extending  His  kingdom  on  .earth  ? 

III.  He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved ;  but 
he  that  believeth  not  shall  be  condemned .  Relying  on  the 
truth  of  these  words  every  one  among  us  will  perhaps 
say ;  I  shall  be  saved,  for  I  believe.  This  will  un¬ 
doubtedly  be  the  case  if  our  actions  agree  with  the  faith 
we  profess.  For  we  shall  be  saved  by  that  faith  by 
which  our  life  is  in  conformity  with  the  principles  it 
teaches.  St.  Paul  confirms  this  when,  speaking  of  bad 
Christians,  he  says  :  They  profess  that  they  know  God ,  but  in 

H 


2  TO 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


their  works  they  deny  Him  (Titus  i.  16).  The  same  is  said 
by  St.  John :  He  who  saith  that  he  knoweth  God  and  keepeth 
not  His  commandments ,  is  a  liar ,  and  the  truth  is  not  in  him 
(i  John  ii.  4).  If  this  be  so,  then  our  life  must  abso¬ 
lutely  give  testimony  to  the  faith  which  we  profess  ;  and 
if  our  conduct  be  not  against  the  rules  prescribed  by  our 
holy  religion,  then  we  may  trust  to  belong  to  the  number 
of  the  faithful.  Indeed,  we  do  not  forget  the  solemn 
promises  made  at  our  baptism — namely,  to  renounce 
Satan,  all  his  works  and  all  his  pomps.  Let  each  of  us 
earnestly  examine  himself,  and  should  he  be  able  to 
testify  to  the  fact  that  he  has  fulfilled  all  those  duties 
taken  upon  himself  in  the  Sacrament  of  Baptism,  he  may 
congratulate  himself  on  the  happiness  of  being  a  good 
Christian.  But  should  he  be  forced  to  confess  that  he 
has  been  faithless  to  his  promises,  that  he  has  been  a 
member  of  that  company  which  he  had  formerly  re¬ 
nounced,  and  that  his  actions  reproach  him  with  having 
lost  his  innocence,  then  let  him  ask  himself  whether  he 
feels  deep  contrition  for  his  sins,  and  endeavours  to  wash 
them  out  with  tears  of  repentance.  Our  Judge  is  a  God 
of  mercies,  who  will  no  longer  recognise  as  faithless  the 
servant  who,  after  leaving  Him,  now  feels  contrite,  and 
sincerely  returns  to  Him;  for  our  penance  will  make 
Him  forget  the  sins  that  had  rendered  us  guilty  in  His 
eyes. 

IV.  Then  our  Lord  added  these  words  :  And  these  signs 
shall  follow  them  that  believe  ;  in  My  Name  they  shall  cast  out 
devils  ;  they  shall  speak  with  new  tongues ;  they  shall  take  tip 
serpents  ;  and  if  they  shall  drink  any  deadly  thing ,  it  shall  not 
hurt  them  ;  they  shall  lay  hands  upon  the  sick ,  and  they  shall 
recover .  Now,  do  not  think  because  such  miracles  are 
not  wrought  by  you,  that  you  have  not  the  true  faith. 
These  miracles  were  necessary  at  the  beginning  of  the 


ASCENSION  DAY  21 1 

Church,  that  the  faith  should  be  accepted,  and  the 
number  of  the  faithful  increased  by  the  signs  of  the 
Almighty  power.  For  the  beginning  of  the  Church  may 
be  compared  to  the  planting  of  a  young  tree,  which  is  to 
be  tended  and  watered  until  it  has  taken  deep  root  in  the 
ground.  Therefore  St.  Paul  says  :  Tongues  are  for  a  sign 
not  to  believers,  but  to  unbelievers  (1  Cor.  xiv.  22).  But  there 
is  also  an  important  lesson  contained  in  these  miracles 
and  gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  provided  we  understand  their 
meaning.  For  these  miracles,  which  in  former  times 
were  wrought  by  the  Apostles  in  a  corporal  and  visible 
manner,  now  take  place  in  the  Church  of  God  in  a 
spiritual  and  invisible  manner.  When  we,  priests  and 
ministers  of  the  Church,  lay  our  hands  upon  the  faithful, 
and  see  how  by  the  power  of  exorcisms  the  evil  spirit  is 
prevented  from  entering  souls,  is  it  not  as  if  we  were 
casting  out  devils  ?  When  Christians,  formerly  addicted 
to  bad  conversations,  so  common  in  the  world,  now 
renounce  such  sins,  are  edifying  in  their  words,  conversing 
about  the  doctrine  of  salvation,  and  everywhere  praising 
their  Creator  and  Redeemer,  are  they,  not  like  those 
Christians  who  spoke  with  new  tongues  ?  Again,  those 
who,  by  their  zealous  admonitions,  withdraw  others  from 
a  shameful  and  vicious  life  take  up  serpents ,  and  are  not 
poisoned  by  them.  If  anyone,  hearing  corrupting  lan¬ 
guage,  is  not  affected  by  it  or  led  to  evil,  does  he  not 
seem  to  drink  a  deadly  thing ,  and  is  not  hurt  ?  Lastly,  all 
those  who,  seeing  their  brethren,  not  yet  strong  in  virtue — 
on  the  point  of  yielding  to  sin,  run  to  their  help,  in  order 
to  prevent  their  spiritual  shipwreck  ;  all  others  who  by 
their  good  example  strengthen  their  neighbour  in  virtue — 
ail  of  them  lay  hands  upon  the  sick ,  and  they  recover .  All 
these  miracles  are  the  more  astonishing,  since  they  are 
worked  on  souls,  the  resurrection  of  which  to  the 

14 — 2 


212  S  UN  DA  YS  A  ND  FESTI V  A  LS 

$ 

spiritual  life  of  grace  is  more  wonderful  than  the  rising  of 
bodies.  Well,  beloved  brethren,  you  can  do  these  in¬ 
visible  wonders  with  the  help  of  God,  if  only  you  are 
willing.  As  to  the  visible  signs,  proving  the  holiness  of 
those  who  work  them,  they  cannot  of  themselves  sanctify, 
not  even  those  by  whom  they  are  witnessed ;  whereas 
the  spiritual  gifts,  spoken  of  just  now,  when  imparted  to 
souls,  though  not  proving  the  virtue  of  the  receivers, 
nevertheless  give  them  the  life  of  grace.  Both  the  good 
and  the  wicked  may  be  favoured  by  exterior  gifts ;  yet 
the  spiritual  gifts  are  possessed  by  the  just  only.  There¬ 
fore  it  was  said  by  the  Eternal  Truth,  speaking  of  those 
who  boast  of  having  done  miracles  in  His  Name :  Many 
will  say  to  me  in  that  day :  Lord ,  Lord,  have  not  we 
prophesied  in  Thy  Name ,  and  cast  out  devils  in  Thy  name ,  and 
done  many  miracles  in  Thy  Name?  And  then  will  I  profess 
unto  them ,  I  never  knew  you  ;  depart  from  Me,  you  that  work 
iniquity  (Matt.  vii.  22,  23).  Beloved  brethren,  do  not 
desire  these  exterior  signs  which  are  sometimes  granted 
by  God  to  His  enemies  and  to  the  reprobate ;  but 
earnestly  wish  for  those  wonders  of  love  and  examples  of 
true  piety,  I  have  spoken  of  to  you.  Their  merits  are 
the  surer  the  more  they  are  hidden — merits  that  will  be 
the  more  generously  rewarded  by  God,  the  less  they  are 
shining  before  the  eyes  of  men. 

V.  And  the  Lord  fesus,  after  He  had  spoken  to  them,  was 
taken  up  to  heaven,  and  sitteth  on  the  right  hand  of  God . 
When  we  read  in  Hply  Scripture  (4  Kings  ii.)  that  Elias 
also  was  taken  up  to  heaven,  we  easily  understand  the 
difference.  The  prophet  was  taken  up  in  the  air,  whereas 
our  Saviour  ascended  by  His  own  power  into  heaven. 
As  the  birds,  flying  up  in  the  air  and  again  coming  down, 
are  called  the  birds  of  the  heaven,  so  Elias  is  said  to  have 
passed  through  the  space  of  the  air  or  atmosphere,  that 


ASCENSION  DAY 


213 


he  might  be  taken  to  an  unknown  land,  there  to  spend 
painless  and  happy  days,  until  the  end  of  the  world,  when 
he  will  again  appear  and  pay  the  debt  of  nature.  Death 
is  a  punishment  that  was  not  remitted  to  him ;  it  was 
only  postponed.  But  our  Redeemer,  suffering  death 
without  delay,  conquered  it  and  destroyed  its  dominion 
by  His  Resurrection,  the  glory  of  which  was  revealed  in 
the  triumph  of  His  Ascension.  Again,  observe  that  the 
prophet  Elias  was  taken  up  to  heaven  in  a  fiery  chariot, 
showing  that,  as  a  human  being,  he  had  need  of  exterior 
help.  Angels  carried  him  into  the  atmosphere,  wherein 
the  great  weakness  of  his  human  nature  could  not  have 
supported  him.  But  our  Saviour  ascended  into  heaven 
by  His  own  power,  without  the  assistance  of  angels  or 
the  help  of  creatures  ;  and  He  saw  the  earth  under  His 
feet,  since  by  His  Almighty  power  He  was  elevated  above 
all  things.  He  ascended  without  any  effort  to  the  eternal 
dwellings,  for  He  had  never  left  His  glory ;  and  if  as  man 
He  ascended  into  heaven,  as  God  He  had  always  been 
present  in  heaven  and  on  earth. 

VI.  As  Joseph,  sold  by  his  brethren,  was  a  symbol  of 
Jesus  sold  by  Judas,  so  were  also  Henoch,  translated  by 
God  to  paradise,  and  Elias  taken  up  to  heaven,  two 
types  of  His  Ascension.  Our  Lord  wished  this  great 
mystery  to  be  announced  by  these  two  witnesses,  the  one 
living  before  the  Law,  the  other  under  the  Law.  How¬ 
ever,  there  are  different  degrees  of  glory  in  these  transla¬ 
tions,  according  to  the  different  conditions  of  the  persons. 
Holy  Scripture  says  of  Henoch :  He  was  seen  no  mover 
because  God  took  him  (Gen.  v.  24) ;  of  Elias,  that  he  was 
taken  up  in  a  fiery  chariot.  But  our  Saviour  penetrated 
heaven  without  the  help  of  another.  He  was  not  taken 
up  nor  carried  up,  but  went  up  into  the  dwelling  of  glory 
by  His  own  power.  In  His  Ascension,  and  also  in  the 


214 


•  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


translation  of  Henoch  and  Elias,  are  shown  the  different 
degrees  of  the  virtue  of  chastity,  of  which  He  is  our 
exemplar,  and  which  He  wished  to  be  perpetuated  in  His 
Church.  When  first  we  consider  Henoch  in  the  bonds  of 
matrimony,  then  see  Elias  without  wife  and  children,  we 
notice  the  progress  of  this  holy  virtue  manifested  in  these 
two  men,  as  compared  with  Jesus  in  His  Ascension.  We 
know  that  Henoch,  being  begotten  like  other  men,  in  his 
turn  begot  children ;  that  Elias,  coming  later,  though 
born  like  others,  never  begot ;  and  that  Jesus  Christ,  not 
only  in  His  miraculous  birth,  but  in  His  whole  liie,  was 
Purity  itself. 

VII.  St.  Mark  says  of  our  Lord:  And  sitteth  on  the 
right  hand  of  God .  Yet  St.  Stephen  (Acts  vii.  55)  ex¬ 
claimed  :  Behold,  I  see  the  heavens  opened ,  and  the  Son  op 
Man  standing  on  the  right  hand  of  God.  This  does  not 
seem  to  agree,  namely,  sitting  on  the  right  hand,  and 
standing  on  the  right  hand.  Yet,  beloved  brethren,  you 
will  not  be  astonished  by  this  seemingly  disagreeing 
testimony  of  Holy  Scripture.  You  will  take  into  con¬ 
sideration  that  it  appertains  to  a  judge  to  be  sitting, 
whereas  one  fighting  or  helping  is  thought  to  be  standing. 
Now,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  after  ascending  into 
heaven,  is  the  Judge  of  all  things,  and  will  come  at  the 
end  to  judge  the  whole  world ;  and  in  this  capacity  of 
highest  judge  He  is  represented  by  St.  Mark  as  sitting 
on  the  right  hand  of  God.  But  when  Stephen,  still  in 
the  throes  of  the  battle,  saw  Him  standing  in  the  midst 
of  His  glory,  we  are  to  understand  that  Jesus  in  the 
highest  heavens  was  fighting  with  this  glorious  martyr, 
giving  him  His  help  to  overcome  the  fury  of  his  perse¬ 
cutors. 

VIII.  But  they ,  going, preached  everywhere ;  the  Lord  ivork - 
ing  withal ,  and  confirming  the  word  with  signs  that  followed . 


ASCENSION  DAY 


21$ 


What  are  we  to  notice  in  this,  and  what  are  we  to  re¬ 
member,  but  that  obedience  followed  the  commandment, 
and  that  great  miracles  followed  their  obedience  ?  But 
now,  since  by  the  will  of  God  we  have  lightly  run  over 
our  reading  from  the  Gospel,  it  remains  that  we  should 
give  you  some  considerations  or  reflections  on  this  great 
festival. 

IX.  And  first,  let  us  ask  why  the  angels,  appearing  at 
the  birth  of  our  Lord,  were  not  in  white  garments; 
whereas,  when  the  Lord  ascended  into  heaven,  it  is  written 
that  they  were  clad  in  white.  It  is  written  :  While  they 
looked  on ,  He  was  raised  up  :  and  a  cloud  received  Him  out  of 
their  sight'.  And  while  they  were  beholding  Him  going  up  to 
heaven ,  behold  two  men  stood  by  them  in  white  garments  (Acts 
i.  9,  io).  White  garments  are  an  outward  sign  of  an 
inward  joy.  But  how  is  it  that  these  heavenly  spirits, 
announcing  the  blessed  birth  of  our  Saviour,  were  not 
seen  in  white  garments  ?  Because  at  the  Ascension  the 
angels,  beholding  the  Man-God  going  up  in  triumph  to 
heaven,  were  manifesting  their  joy,  since  His  humanity 
received  the  glory  due  to  Him  ;  whereas  in  His  Nativity 
the  Divinity  seemed  to  be  humbled,  taking  the  form  of  a 
servant,  and  the  .  angels  showed  no  special  exterior  joy. 
‘Their  appearance  in  white  garments  at  the  Ascension  was 
a  sign  of  glory  ;  at  the  Nativity  a  sign  of  the  humiliation 
of  the  Son  of  God. 

X.  However,  beloved  brethren,  what  deserves  our 
greatest  consideration  on  this  festival  is  the  fact,  that  on 
this  day  Christ  was  blotting  out  the  handwriting  of  the  decree 
that  was  against  us  (Col.  ii.  14),  and  that  the  sentence  of 
corruption  was  reversed.  For  our  human  nature,  of 
which  it  was  said,  Thou  art  dust ,  and  unto  dust  thou  shalt 
return  (Gen.  iii.  19),  was  taken  up  to  heaven  on  this  day. 
Foreseeing  this  elevation  of  our  flesh,  the  holy  man  Job 


21 6 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


compared  our  Lord  with  a  bird.  And  seeing  that  the 
Jews  would  not  recognise  this  mystery,  he  reproached 
them  with  their  incredulity,  and  said:  The  bird  hath  not 
known  the  path  (Job  xxviii.  7).  The  name  of  a  bird  is 
'  well  given  to  the  Lord,  Who  in  His  human  body  soared 
up  into  heaven.  And  those  who  do  not  believe  in  His 
Ascension,  do  not  know  the  path  of  the  Bird.  It  is  of  this 
glorious  occasion  that  the  Psalmist  says :  Thy  magnifi¬ 
cence ,  0  Lord,  is  elevated  above  the  heavens  (Ps.  viii.  2) ; 
again  :  God  is  ascended  with  jubilee,  and  the  Lord  with  the 
sound  of  trumpet  (Ps.  xlvi.  6).  And  again  he  says  :  Thou 
hast  ascended  on  high,  Thou  hast  led  captivity  captive;  Thou  hast 
received  gifts  in  men  (Ps.  lxvii.  19).  Ascending  to  heaven, 
He  led  captivity  captive,  for  by  His  Resurrection  we 
were  delivered  from  corruption  ;  and  He  gave  gifts  to 
men  when  sending  His  Spirit :  To  one,  indeed,  by  the  Spirit 
is  given  the  word  of  wisdom  ;  to  another  the  word  of  knowledge  ; 
to  another  the  grace  of  healing ;  to  another  the  working  of 
miracles  ;  to  another  divers  kinds  of  tongues  ;  to  another  inter  - 
pretation  of  speeches  (1  Cor.  xii.  8-10).  The  prophet 
Habacuc  spoke  of  the  glory  of  Christ's  Ascension  in  the 
words :  The  Sun  and  the  Moon  stood  still  in  their  habitation 
(Hab.  iii.  11).  Who  is  here  signified  .by  the  Sun  if  not 
the  Saviour?  or  by  the  Moon,  if  not  the  Church  ?  This 
Church  was,  until  the  Lord’s  Ascension,  exposed  to 
violent  storms,  and  lived  in  fear  of  her  enemies.  But 
when  our  Saviour  had  ascended  into  heaven,  the  Church 
was  strengthened,  took  heart,  and  began  to  preach  openly 
the  faith  which  she  had  been  holding  secretly.  Like  the 
sun  rising  towards  the  south,  the  Lord  rose,  and  gave 
strength  and  increase  to  His  Church  by  the  powerful 
command  to  preach  His  Gospel.  And  to  confirm  the 
truth,  the  Church,  taking  the  words  of  Solomon,  ex¬ 
claims :  The  voice  of  my  beloved ;  behold  he  cometh  leaping 


217 


ASCENSION  DAY 

upon  the  mountains ,  skipping  over  the  hills  (Cant.  ii.  8).  For 
the  Church  contemplates  the  sufferings  of  our  Saviour, 
Who,  from  the  first  moment  of  His  coming  into  this 
world,  leaped  with  giant’s  steps  on  painful  roads.  And 
would  you  know,  beloved  brethren,  these  steps  taken  by 
the  Redeemer  ?  Consider  that  from  heaven  He  stepped 
into  the  womb  of  a  Virgin,  from  the  womb  into  the 
manger,  from  the  manger  on  to  the  cross,  from  the  cross 
into  the  sepulchre,  and  from  the  sepulchre  up  to  heaven. 
Thus  the  truth  manifested  in  the  flesh  took  such  steps 
for  our  sakes,  that  He  might  draw  us  to  run  after  Him ; 
and  for  this  end  He  hath  rejoiced  as  a  giant  to  run  His  way 
(Ps.  xviii.  6),  that  we  might  passionately  say  :  Draw 
us;  we  will  run  after  Thee  to  the  odour  of  Thy  sweetness 
(Cant.  i.  3). 

XI.  Therefore,  beloved  brethren,  we  must  follow  in 
heart  and  mind  Him  Who  on  this  day  ascended  into 
heaven.  Let  our  hearts  be  separated  from  all  earthly 
desires,  so  that  we  may  henceforth  taste  no  other  happi¬ 
ness  than  the  remembrance  of  Him  Who  is  our  Father 
in  heaven.  Let  us  remember,  and  often  meditate,  on  this 
truth,  that,  though  He  ascended  as  a  peaceful  King,  He 
will  one  day  come  as  a  terrible  Judge,  and  require  of  us 
with  justice  an  account  of  our  keeping  those  command¬ 
ments  given  to  us  by  Him  in  mercy.  Let  no  man 
neglect  the  time  given  to  us  for  doing  penance;  let 
everyone  work  for  the  salvation  of  his  soul  whilst  there 
is  yet  an  opportunity.  Our  Redeemer  will  be  all  the 
sterner,  when  He  comes  in  judgment,  the  more  won- 
drously  long-suffering  He  was  before.  Carefully  con¬ 
sider  my  words,  and  dispose  your  life  according  to  this 
important  lesson.  And  should  your  soul  be  tossed  about 
by  the  storms  of  this  life,  let  it  be  fastened  by  the  anchor 
of  hope  to  the  eternal  dwellings,  our  true  fatherland,  and 


218 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


let  your(  eyes  steadfastly  gaze  on  that  heavenly  light. 
After  considering  the  Ascension  of  our  Lord,  let  our 
faith  meditate  on  this  mystery,  and,  though  we  are  still 
fastened  to  this  earth  by  the  bonds  of  our  body,  let  us  at 
least  follow  Jesus  on  the  wings  of  our  love,  and  ask  Him, 
Who  granted  us  these  heavenly  desires,  not  to  forsake 
us,  until  they  be  perfectly  fulfilled.  Amen, 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER.’ 

Gospel:  John  xv.  26  to  xvi.  4.  At  that  time:  Jesus 
said  to  His  disciples When  the  Paraclete  cometh, 
Whom  I  will  send  you  from  the  Father,  the  Spirit  of 
Truth,  Who  proceedeth  from  the  Father,  He  shall  give 
testimony  of  Me  :  and  you  shall  give  testimony,  because 
you  are  with  Me  from  the  beginning.  These  things 
have  I  spoken  to  you,  that  you  may  not  be  scandalized. 
They  will  put  you  out  of  the  synagogues ;  yea,  the  hour 
cometh,  that  whosoever  killeth  you,  will  think  that  he 
doeth  a  service  to  God.  And  these  things  will  they  do 
to  you,*  because  they  have  not  known  the  Father,  nor 
Me.  But  these  things  I  have  told  you,  that  when  the 
hour  shall  come,  you  may  remember  that  I  told  you. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Tracts  92  and  93  on  St.  John. 

I.  When  our  Lord  had  told  His  Apostles  that  the 
world,  His  enemies,  hated  both  the  Son  and  the  Father 
without  a  cause — that  is,  both  Him  that  was  sent  and 
Him  by  Whom  He  was  sent — He  added  these  words : 
But  when  the  Paraclete  cometh ,  Whom  I  will  send  you  from  the 
Father ,  the  Spirit  of  Truths  Who  proceedeth  from  the  Father , 
He  shall  give  testimony  of  Me  :  and  you  shall  give  testimony , 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER 


219 


because  you  are  with  Me  from  the  beginning .  But  what  con: 
nection  has  this  with  what  He  had  just  said:  Now  they 
have  both  seen ,  and  hated  both  Me  and  My  Father ;  but  that  the 
word  may  be  fulfilled  which  is  written  in  their  law :  They  have 
hated  Me  without  cause  (John  xv.  25).  Is  it  that,  when  the 
Paraclete,  the  Spirit  of  Truth,  is  come,  He  will  convict 
by  a  still  clearer  testimony  those  who  have  both  seen  and 
hated  both  God  the  Son  and  God  the  Father?  Yea, 
indeed,  some  there  were  who  had  seen  and  still  hated, 
whom  the  testimony  of  the  Paraclete  converted  to  the 
faith  which  worheth  by  charity  (Gal.  v.  6).  To  make  this 
view  of  the  passage  intelligible,  we  recall  to  your  mind 
that  so  it  actually  came  to  pass.  For  on  the  day  of 
Pentecost  the  Holy  Spirit  came  down  upon  an  assembly 
of  120  men,  among  whom  were  all  the  Apostles;  and 
when  these,  filled  with  the  Spirit,  spoke  in  the  tongues 
of  all  the  nations,  a  great  number  of  those  who  had  hated, 
were  amazed  by  so  great  a  miracle,  specially  when  they 
saw  in  Peter’s  speech,  how  great  and  how  Divine  a  testi¬ 
mony  was  borne  to  the  fact  that  the  Christ,  Whom  they 
had  murdered,  afad  Whom  they  reckoned  among  the 
dead,  had  risen  again,  and  was  alive.  And  many  of  the 
bystanders  had  compunction  in  their  hearts  (Acts  ii.  37), 
and  were  converted.  They  received  pardon  from  that 
precious  Blood,  which  had  been  so  sacrilegiously  and 
cruelly  shed  by  them,  and  they  themselves  became 
redeemed  by  the  very  Blood  they  had  shed  ;  for  the 
Blood  of  Christ  was  shed  so  efficaciously  for  the  remission 
of  all  sins,  that  it  had  power  to  blot  out  the  very  sin  by 
which  it  was  shed.  Towards  this  the  Lord  looked, 
when  He  said  :  They  hated  Me  without  cause  ;  but  when  the 
Paraclete  cometh ,  He  shall  give  testimony  of  Me .  This  was 
as  though  He  had  said  :  ‘  They  hated  Me  and  killed  Me 
when  I  stood  visibly  before  their  eyes ;  but  the  Paraclete 


220 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


shall  bear  such  testimony  concerning  Me,  that  He  will 
compel  them  to  believe  in  Me,  when  I  am  no  longer 
visible  to  their  sight. 

II.  And  you,  He  says,  shall  give  testimony,  because  you  are 
with  Me  from  the  beginning.  The  Holy  Ghost  shall  give 
testimony,  and  so  also  shall  you.  Because  you  have 
been  with  me  from  the  beginning,  you  can  preach  what 
you  know  ;  but  you  cannot  do  this  just  now,  because 
the  fulness  of  that  Spirit  is  not  yet  within  you.  He,  then, 
shall  give  testimony  of  Me  ;  and  you  shall  give  testimony  ;  for 
the  charity  of  God  is  poured  forth  in  your  hearts  by  the  Holy 
Ghost  Who  is  given  to  you  (Rom.  v.  5),  and  will  give  you 
the  needful  confidence  for  such  witness-bearing.  This 
certainly  was  still  wanting  to  Peter’s  heart,  who,  terrified 
by  a  maid- servant’s  question,  could  give  no  true  testi¬ 
mony,  but,  breaking  his  promise,  was  driven  by  fear 
thrice  to  deny  Him.  Now,  fear  is  not  in  charity ;  but 
perfect  charity  casteth  out  fear  (1  John  iv.  18).  In  fact,  be¬ 
fore  the  Lord’s  Passion,  his  slavish  fear  was  questioned 
by  a  serving-woman,  but  after  the  Resurrection  his  free 
love  was  asked  by  the  very  Prince  of  freedom.  And  so 
on  one  occasion  he  was  troubled,  on  the  other  he  was  at 
peace ;  there  he  denied  the  One  he  loved,  here  he  loved 
the  One  he  had  denied.  But  still  even  then  this  very 
love  was  weak  and  narrow,  until  strengthened  and  ex¬ 
panded  by  the  Holy  Ghost.  And  that  spirit,  pervading 
him  with  the  fulness  of  richer  grace,  set  on  fire  his  once 
cold  heart,  to  give  testimony  to  Christ,  and  unlocked 
those  trembling  lips  which  had  suppressed  the  truth. 
Therefore,  while  all  on  whom  the  Holy  Ghost  had 
descended  were  speaking  with  tongues  of  all  the  nations 
to  crowds  of  the  Jews  that  stood  around,  Peter  alone,  more 
promptly  than  the  rest,  broke  forth  to  bear  witness  of 
Christ,  and,  giving  an  account  of  His  Resurrection, 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER 


221 


confounded  His  murderers*  And  if  anyone  would  like 
to  look  at  such  a  sweetly  holy  spectacle,  let  him  read  the 
Acts  of  the  Apostles  (Acts  ii.  5),  there  to  be  amazed  at 
the  preaching  of  blessed  Peter,  over  whose  denial  of  his 
Master  he  had  just  been  mourning ;  there  to  behold  that 
tongue  translated  from  cowardice  to  boldness,  from 
servitude  to  liberty,  converting  to  the  confession  of  Christ 
so  many  tongues  of  His  enemies,  not  one  of  which  he 
had  had  strength  enough  to  bear,  when  lapsing  himself 
into  denial.  What  shall  I  say  more  ?  In  him  there 
shone  forth  such  brightness  of  grace,  such  fulness  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  such  weight  of  most  precious  truth,  pro¬ 
ceeding  from  the  mouth  of  the  preacher,  that  of  the  vast 
multitude  of  jews,  who  were  the  murderers  of  Christ,  he 
transformed  them  into  men  who  were  ready  to  die  for 
His  Name,  even  those  by  whom  he  once  dreaded  to 
be  put  to  death  with  Him.  All  this  was  done  by  the 
Holy  Ghost,  then  sent,. previously  only  promised.  These 
were  His  own  great  and  marvellous  gifts,  foreseen  by  the 
Lord,  when  He  said :  They  have  both  seen  and  hated  both  Me 
and  My  Father  ;  but  that  the  word  may  be  fulfilled  which  is 
written  in  their  law :  They  have  hated  Me  without  cause .  But 
when  the  Paraclete  cometh ,  Whom  I  will  send  you  from  the 
Father ,  the  Spirit  of  Truth,  Who  proceedeth  from  the  Father , 
He  shall  give  testimony  of  Me;  and  you  shall  give  testimony . 
For  He,  giving  testimony,  and  inspiring  such  witnesses 
with  invincible  courage,  rid  Christ’s  friends  of  their  fear, 
and  turned  into  love  the  hatred  of  His  enemies. 

Ill,  In  the  words  preceding  this  portion  of  the  Gospel, 
the  Lord  strengthened  His  disciples  to  bear  the  hatred 
of  their  enemies,  and  prepared  them  also  by  His  example 
to  become  more 'courageous  by  imitating  Him.  He  then 
added  the  promise  that  the  Holy  Ghost  would  come  and 
give  testimony  of  Him,  and  also  that  they  themselves 


'222 


SUN  DA  YS  AND  FESTIVALS 


should  be  made  His  witnesses  through  the  powerful 
working  of  His  Spirit  in  their  hearts.  This  is  the 
meaning  of  His  words :  He  shall  give  testimony  of  Me,  and 
you  shall  give  testimony — that  is,  because  He  shall  give 
testimony,  you  shall  also  give  testimony,  He  in  your 
hearts  and  you  in  your  voices  ;  He  by  inspiration,  you  by 
expression,  that  thus  the  words  might  be  fulfilled  :  Their 
sound  hath  gone  forth  into  all  the  earth  (Ps.  xviii.  5).  For  it 
would  not  have  been  enough  to  cheer  them  on  by  His 
example,  had  He  not  also  filled  them  with  His  Spirit. 
Thus  we  see  that  the  Apostle  Peter,  after  hearing  His 
word,  The  servant  is  not  greater  than  his  Master ;  if  they  have 
persecuted  Me,  they  will  also  persecute  you  (John  xv.  20) ;  and 
having  seen  that  already  fulfilled  in  his  Lord,  wherein  he 
ought  to  have  imitated  His  patient  suffering,  had  example 
been  sufficient,  succumbed  and  fell  into  denial,  because 
he  was  unable  to  bear  what  he  saw  Him  enduring.  But 
when  he  received  the  Holy  Ghost,  he  preached  Him 
Whom  he  had  denied ;  and  Whom  he  had  been  afraid  to 
confess,  he  had  no  fear  now  openly  to  profess.  He  had 
already  been  taught  by  example  to  know  what  was  meet 
to  be  done ;  but  he  was  not  yet  inspired  by  the  power  to 
do  what  he  knew ;  he  was  instructed  that  he  might  stand, 
but  he  was  not  strengthened  that  he  might  not  fall.  But 
when  this  was  given  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  he  preached 
Christ  even  to  the  death,  Whom,  for  fear  of  death,  he  had 
previously  denied.  Therefore  the  Lord,  in  the  following 
chapter,  of  which  we  are  now  to  speak  to  you,  says : 
These  things  have  I  spoken  to  you  that  you  may  not  be  scandal¬ 
ized .  Thus  we  sing  in  the  psalm :  Much  peace  have  they 
that  love  Thy  law ;  and  to  them  there  is  no  stumbling-block 
(Ps.  cxviii.  165).  Fittingly  enough,  then,  after  promising 
the  Holy  Ghost,  by  Whose  operation  in  their  hearts  they 
should  be  made  His  witnesses,  He  goe.s  on  to  say: 


' SIXTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  EASTER  223 

'These  things  have  I  spoken  to  you ,  that  you  may  not  be 
scandalized .  For  when  the  charity  of  God  is  poured  forth 
into  our  hearts  by  the  Holy  Ghost ,  Who  is  given  to  us 
v.  5),  those  who  love  God’s  law  have  great 
peace,  so  that  nothing  may  scandalize  them. 

IV.  Then  He  expressly  declares  what  they  were  to 
suffer  :  They  will  put  you  out  of  the  synagogues .  But  what 
harm  was  it  to  the  Apostles  to  be  expelled  from  the 
Jewish  synagogues  ?  Were  they  not  about  to  separate 
themselves  therefrom,  though  none  should  expel  them  ? 
Doubtless  He  meant  to  announce  that  the  Jews  would 
refuse  to  receive  Christ,  from  Whom  the  Apostles  as 
certainly  would  refuse  to  withdraw.  And  so  it  would 
come  to  pass  that  they,  who  could  not  be  without  Him, 
would  also  be  cast  out  with  Him  by  those  who  refused 
to  be  in  Him.  Certainly,  as  there  was  no  other  people 
of  God  than  that  seed  of  Abraham,  had  they  only 
acknowledged  and  received  Christ,  they  would  have 
remained  as  the  natural  branches  of  the  olive-tree ;  nor 
would  the  Churches  of  Christ  have  differed  from  the 
synagogues  of  the  Jews,  but  would  have  been  one  and 
the  same,  had  they  also  desired  to  abide  in  Him.  But 
having  refused,  what  remained  but  that,  continuing  to  be 
out  of  Christ,  they  put  out  of  the  synagogues  those  who 
would  not  forsake  Christ  ?  For,  having  received  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  so  become  His  witnesses,  they  would 
certainly  not  belong  to  those  of  whom  it  was  said  :  Many 
of  the  chief  men  also  believed  in  Him ,  but  because  of  the 
Pharisees  they  did  not  confess  Him ,  that  they  might  not  be 
cast  out  of  the  synagogues ;  for  they  loved  the  glory  of  men  more 
than  the  glory  of  God  (John  xii.  42,  43).  And  so  they 
believed  in  Him,  but  not  in  the  way  He  wished  them  to 
believe,  when  He  said  :  How  can  you  believe ,  who  receive  glory 
one  from  another ;  and  the  glory  which  is  from  God  alone, you  do 


224  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

not  seek?  (John  v.  44).  It  is,  therefore,  with  those  disciples 
who  believe  in  Him  that,  being  filled  with  the  Holy 
Ghost — or,  in  other  words,  with  the  gift  of  Divine 
grace — they  no  longer  belong  to  those  who,  not  knowing 
the  justice  of  God ,  and  seeking  to  establish  their  own,  have  not 
submitted  themselves  to  the  justice  of  God  (Rom.  x.  3) ;  nor  to 
those  of  whom  it  is  said,  they  loved  the  glory  of  men  more 
than  the  glory  of  God9  that  this  prophecy  harmonizes*  which 
is  fulfilled  in  their  own  persons  :  They  shall  walk ,  O  Lordy 
in  the  light  of  Thy  countenance ,  and  in  Thy  Name  they  shall 
rejoice  all  the  day ,  and  in  Thy  justice  they  shall  be  exalted ,  for 
Thou  art  the  glory  of  their  strength  (Ps.  lxxxviii.  16-18). 
Rightly  enough  it  is  said  to  them  :  They  will  put  you  out 
of  the  synagogues — that  is,  they,  who  have  a  zeal  of  God ,  but 
not  according  to  knowledge ,  because,  not  knowing  the  justice  of 
God}  and  seeking  to  establish  their  own9  they  expel  those  who 
are  exalted,  not  in  their  own  justice,  but  in  God’s,  and 
the  expelled  have  no  cause  to  be  ashamed  at  being 
expelled  by  men,  because  He  is  the  glory  of  their  strength . 
Finally,  He  added  these  words  :  Yea ,  the  hour  comethy  that 
whosoever  killeth  you ,  will  think  that  he  doeth  a  service  to  God; 
and  these  things  will  they  do  to  you}  because  they  have  not 
known  the  Father  nor  Me.  That  is  to  say,  they  have  not 
known  the  Father  nor  His  Son,  to  Whom  they  think 
they  will  be  doing  a  service  in  slaying  you.  Words 
which  the  Lord  added  in  the  way  of  consolation  to  His 
own,  who  would  be  driven  out  of  the  Jewish  synagogues. 

WHIT-SUNDAY,  THE  FEAST  OF 
PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  John  xiv.  23-31.  At  that  time:  Jesus  said  to 
His  disciples  :  If  anyone  love  Me,  he  will  keep  My  word, 
and  My  Father  will  love  him,  and  We  will  come  to  him, 


WHIT-SUNDAY ,  THE  PE  A  ST  OF  PENTECOST  22  j 

and  will  make  Our  abode  with  him ;  he  that  loveth  Me 
not,  keepeth  not  My  words.  And  the  word  which  you 
have  heard  is  not  Mine ;  but  the  Father’s  Who  sent  Me. 
These  things  have  I  spoken  to  you,  abiding  with  you. 
But  the  Paraclete,  the  Holy  Ghost,  Whom  the  Father 
will  send  in  My  name,  He  will  teach  you  all  things,  and 
bring  all  things  to  your  mind,  whatsoever  I  shall  have 
said  to  you.  Peace  I  leave  with  you  ;  My  peace  I  give 
to  you  ;  not  as  the  world  giveth  do  I  give  unto  you.  Let 
not  your  heart  be  troubled,  nor  let  it  be  afraid.  You  have 
heard  that  I  said  to  you  :  I  go  away,  and  I  come  again 
to  you.  If  you  loved  Me,  you  would  indeed  be  glad, 
because  I  go  to  the  Father ;  for  the  Father  is  greater 
than  I.  And  now  I  have  told  you  before  it  come  to  pass : 
that  when  it  shall  come  to  pass,  you.  may  believe.  I 
will  not  now  speak  many  things  with  you  ;  for  the  Prince 
of  this  world  cometh,  and  in  Me  he  hath  not  anything. 
But  that  the  world  may  know  that  I  love  the  Father ;  and 
as  the  Father  hath  given  Me  commandment,  so  do  I. 


HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
CHURCH  OF  ST.  PETER,  APOSTLE,  ON  THE  FEAST 
OF  PENTECOST. 

Thirtieth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  It  will  be  best,  beloved  brethren,  briefly  to  run 
through  the  words  of  the  Gospel,  read  out  to  you,  and 
afterwards  dwell  for  a  longer  time  upon  the  subject  of 
this  solemn  festival.  This  is  the  day  whereon  suddenly 
there  came  a  sound  from  heaven ,  and  the  Holy  Ghost 
descended  upon  the  Apostles,  and  changed  their  fleshly 
minds  into  minds  filled  with  the  love  of  God.  And 
whilst  without  there  appeared  parted  tongues ,  as  it  were  of 
fire,  and  it  sat  upon  every  one  of  them ,  within  their  hearts 

15 


226 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


were  inflamed.  They  received  the  visible  presence  of 
God  in  the  form  of  fire,  and  their  hearts  were  filled  with 
the  flames  of  His  love.  The  Holy  Ghost  Himself  is  love  ; 
hence  St.  John  says  :  God  is  charity  [love]  (i  John  iv.  8). 
Whosoever,  therefore,  desires  God  with  all  his  soul,  has 
already  obtained  Him  Whom  he  loves  ;  for  no  one  is  able 
to  love  God,  if  he  has  not  gained  Him  Whom  he  loves. 
Now  behold,  if  one  of  you  were  asked  whether  he  love 
God,  he  would  with  boldness  and  quietness  of  spirit 
answer:  *  I  do  love  God.*  Yet  at  the  very  beginning  of 
this  day’s  Gospel  we  heard  the  Divine  Truth  say:  If 
anyone  love  Mey  he  will  keep  My  word.  The  test  of  love, 
then,  is  whether  it  is  shown  by  works.  Hence  the  same 
John  says  in  his  Epistle  :  If  any  man  say ,  I  love  God ,  and 
keep  not  His  commandments ,  he  is  a  liar  (i  John  iv.  20,  v.  3). 
We  do  indeed  love  God  and  keep  His  commandments, 
when  we  deny  ourselves  the  gratification  of  our  appetites. 
Whosoever  goes  after  unlawful  desires,  does  not  love  God, 
for  he  is  acting  against  the  will  of  God. 

II.  And  My  Father  will  love  him ,  and  We  will  come  to  him , 
and  will  make  Our  abode  with  him .  O,  beloved  brethren, 
consider  what  a  dignity  it  is  to  have  God  abiding  as  a 
guest  in  our  heart !  Surely,  if  some  rich  man,  or  some 
powerful  friend  were  to  come  into  our  house,  we  would 
hasten  to  have  the  whole  house  cleaned,  lest  perhaps  the 
eye  of  the  entering  friend  should  be  offended  by  some¬ 
thing.  So  let  him,  who  wishes  to  make  his  heart  a  dwell¬ 
ing  of  God,  cleanse  it  from  all  filth  of  sinful  works.  For 
what  says  the  Truth  ?  We  will  come  to  him9  and  will  make 
Our  abode  with  him .  There  are  some  hearts  into  which 
God  comes,  but  makes  not  His  abode  therein.  With  a 
certain  contrition  they  feel  His  presence,  but  in  the  time 
of  temptation  they  forget  that  which  made  them  sorry  ; 
and  so  they  turn  again  to  commit  sin,  as  though  they  had 


WHIT-SUNDAY ,  THE  FEAST  OF  PENTECOST  227 

never  repented.  Whosoever  truly  loves  God,  and  keeps 
all  His  commandments,  will  receive  the  Redeemer  into 
his  heart,  and  be  the  abode  of  God,  because  Divine  love 
will  enchain  him  so  strongly  that,  in  the  time  of  tempta¬ 
tion,  he  will  not  be  separated  from  that  love.  The 
true  love  of  God  is  made  manifest  by  our  firmness 
amidst  temptations,  and  our  courage  in  overcoming  them  ;  - 
for  it  is  certain  that  we  are  the  further  from  the  love  of 
supernal  things,  the  more  pleasure  we  find  in  the  sinful 
enjoyments  of  this  life.  Therefore  our  Saviour  added  : 
He  that  loveth  Me  not ,  heepeth  not  My  words .  Examine, 
then,  yourselves,  beloved  brethren,  whether  you  really 
love  God  ;  and  do  not  believe  what  your  mind  answers 
if  you  have  not  the  testimony  of  your  good  works. 
The  heart,  the  tongue,  and  the  whole  life  must  give 
testimony ;  for  real  love  cannot  remain  idle.  Love 
works  great  things,  and  as  soon  as  it  ceases  to  work,  it 
ceases  to  exist.  And  the  word  which  you  have  heard  is  not 
Mine ,  but  the  Father's  Who  sent  Me .  You  know,  beloved 
brethren,  that  the  only-begotten  Son  Who  speaks  is  the 
Word  of  the  Father,  and  that  the  word  He  announced 
is  not  the  Son’s,  but  the  Father’s  word,  because  the  Son 
is  the  Word  of  the  Father.  Rut  how  do  these  words  of 
Jesus — These  things  have  I  spoken  unto  you,  abiding  with  you 
— agree  with  His  other  words  promising  His  disciples  to 
be  with  them  all  days ,  even  to  the  consummation  of  the  world? 
This  will  be  easily  understood,  when  we  remember  that 
the  Word  made  flesh  will  after  a  certain  time  secede  from 
the  world  corporally,  yet  remain  with  us  by  virtue  of  His 
all-powerful  and  invisible  Divinity. 

III.  And  our  Lord  added :  But  the  Paraclete ,  the  Holy 
Ghost ,  Whom  the  Father  will  send  in  My  Name ,  He  will  teach 
yon  all  things ,  and  bring  all  things  to  your  mind ,  whatsoever  I 
shall  have  said  to  you.  You  know,  beloved  brethren,  that 

15—2 


228 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIV4LS 


the  Greek  word  Paraclete  means  in  our  tongue  intercessor 
or  advocate .  because  the  Holy  Ghost  defends,  so  to  speak, 
the  poor  sinner  before  the  tribunal  of  the  Father’s  justice. 
Therefore,  when  it  is  said  that  the  Holy  Ghost,  though 
one  and  the  same  with  the  Father  and  the  Son,  is  inter¬ 
ceding  for  sinners,  it  means  that  by  His  inspirations  He 
moves  our  hearts  to  pray  to  God,  as  St.  Paul  says :  We 
know  not  what  we  should  pray  for  as  we  ought ,  but  the  Spirit 
Himself  askethfor  us  with  unspeakable groanings  (Rom.  viii.  26). 
Should  you  ask  how  it  is  that  the  Holy  Ghost,  not  being 
inferior  to,  but  as  infinitely  great  and  powerful  as  the 
Father,  nevertheless  intercedes  for  us,  you  will  under¬ 
stand  this  to  mean  that  He  fills  our  hearts  and  inflames 
our  desires  to  send  our  petitions  to  heaven  and  lay  our 
necessities  before  the  throne  of  the  Almighty.  He  is  also 
called  the  Comforter ,  because  He  takes  away  the  sorrow¬ 
fulness  caused  by  the  remembrance  of  our  sins,  and 
inspires  us  with  the  hope  of  being  pardoned  by  God. 
Our  Lord  also  says  that  the  Holy  Spirit  will  teach  us  all 
things,  because  the  words  of  the  most  eloquent  preacher 
would  be  useless,  did  not  the  Holy  Ghost  speak  to  the 
hearts^of  the  hearers.  Therefore,  do  not  attribute  to  the 
art  and  eloquence  of  the  teacher  whatsoever  you  under¬ 
stand  about  the  Divine  doctrine,  but  to  the  Spirit  of 
Truth  speaking  in  your  soul ;  for  does  it  not  every  day 
happen  that  the  voice  of  the  preacher  reaches  the  ears  of 
his  hearers,  yet  the  meaning  of  his  words  is  not  under¬ 
stood  by  all  in  the  same  manner  ?  The  voice  is  the  same, 
but  the  understanding  is  not  the  same,  because  the 
divine  Spirit,  this  invisible  Teacher,  opens  the  mind  of 
some,  and  they  comprehend  the  doctrine,  whilst  others 
remain  unmoved  by  the  same  sound  of  the  words. 
St.  John  teaches  this  truth,  when  he  says :  His  unction 
teacheth  you  all  things  (1  John  ii.  27) ;  and  we  understand 


WHITSUNDAY,  THE  FEAST  OF  PENTECOST  229 

that,  were  not  the  unction  of  the  Holy  Ghost  poured  forth 
into  our  hearts,  the  words  of  the  preacher  could  not  teach 
us.  But  why  should  we  insist  on  this  fact  that  human 
eloquence  is  not  able  to  convince  us  of  the  truths  of  salva¬ 
tion,  since  God  Himself  would  in  vain  speak  for  our 
instruction,  did  not  the  unction  of  the  Spirit  move  our 
hearts  at  the  same  time  ?  We  are  aware  that  God, 
knowing  Cain’s  sinful  intention  to  kill  his  brother,  spoke 
to  him,  and  said :  Thou  hast  sinned;  now  stop  (Gen.  iv., 
iuxta  LXX,).  Yet,  though  he  heard  the  voice  of  God 
warning  him  not  to  stain  his  hands  with  the  innocent 
blood  of  his  brother,  he  remained  deaf  to  that  voice, 
because  the  unction  of  the  Holy  Spirit  had  not  entered 
his  heart,  nor  moved  him  to  give  ear  to  that  voice. 
However,  there  is  another  difficulty.  Our  Saviour,  speak¬ 
ing  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  said  to  His  disciples:  And  He 
mil  bring  all  things  to  your  mind,  whatsoever  I  shall  have  said  to 
you .  This  seems  to  imply  that  the  Son  of  God  is  superior 
to  the  Holy  Ghost.  But  when  we  consider  the  words 
bring  all  things  to  your  mind ,  we  understand  that  the  Holy 
Ghost  does  not  lower  Himself  by  such  suggestions,  as  if 
drawing  these  things  out  of  the  innermost  of  the  souls, 
but  by  His  supernatural  light  makes  known  the  truths 
which  before  were  hidden  to  them.  Peace  I  leave  with  you , 
My  peace  I  give  you.  These  words  of  our  Lord  mean  that 
He  leaves  His  peace  with  those  who  endeavour  to  walk  on 
the  road  to  salvation,  and  that  He  will  give  His  peace  for 
ever  to  those  who  enter  the  kingdom  prepared  for  them. 

IV.  After  briefly  explaining  the  words  of  this  day’s 
Gospel,  let  us  now  give  our  attention  to  the  mystery  of 
this  solemn  festival.  You  heard,  beloved  brethren,  that 
on  this  day  the  Holy  Ghost  came  down  upon  the 
Apostles  in  parted  tongues,  as  it  were,  of  fire,  and  that 
they  began  to  speak  with  divers  tongues,  according  as 


230 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


the  Holy  Ghost  gave  them  to  speak.  By  this  great 
wonder  we  understand  that  the  holy  Church,  filled  with 
the  same  spirit  as  the  Apostles,  and  preaching  to  the 
nations  of  the  world,  will  be  heard  by  all  of  them. 
Indeed,  when  God,  to  confound  the  arrogance  of  the 
people  building  the  Tower  of  Babel,  also  confounded 
their  tongue,  He  in  the  same  way  united  all  languages 
in  those  who  humbly  feared  Him,  so  that  humility  found 
its  power  there,  where  pride  and  arrogance  felt  their 
weakness  and  received  their  punishment. 

V.  Now  let  us  examine  why  the  Holy  Ghost,  one 
and  co-eternal  with  the  Father  and  the  Son,  appeared 
under  the  element  of  fire  ;  why  He  appeared  in  fire  and 
tongues  ;  why  He  at  one  time  appeared  as  a  dove,  and 
at  another  as  fire ;  why  He  showed  Himself  as  a  dove 
when  coming  down  upon  the  Son  of  God,  and  as  tongues 
of  fire  upon  the  Apostles  (Acts  ii.  2) ;  so  that  the  dove 
was  not  visible  when  the  Holy  Ghost  came  upon  the 
Apostles,  neither  the  fire  when  He  appeared  upon  the 
Person  of  the  Son  of  God.  These  questions  will  be 
answered,  when  we  first  say  that  the  Holy  Ghost, 
co-eternal  with  the  Father  and  the  Son,  showed  Himself 
as  fire,  because  God  Himself  is  a  spiritual  and  invisible 
fire,  according  to  the  words  of  St.  Paul :  For  our  God  is 
a  consuming  fire  (Heb.  xii.  29).  He  is  indeed  a  fire,  for 
He  consumes  the  rust  of  our  sins ;  and  this  has  been 
confirmed  by  the  words  of  the  Eternal  Truth  :  I  am  come 
to  cast  fire  on  the  earth ;  and  what  will  I  hut  that  it  he  kindled 
(Luke  xii.  49).  The  earth  of  which  He  speaks  are  the 
worldly  hearts  of  men,  which,  being  filled  with  earthly 
thoughts,  are,  so  to  speak,  trodden  upon  by  the  infernal 
spirits.  But  when,  through  the  breathing  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  the  Almighty  sends  His  Divine  fire,  .the  carnal 
hearts  of  men  are  at  once  inflamed  by  His  love ;  the 


WHIT-SUNDAY ,  THE  FEAST  OF  PENTECOST  251 

earth  is  enkindled  by  this  heavenly  fire,  and  the  worldly 
and  cold  hearts  forsake  the  sinful  desires,  by  which  they 
are  bound  to  this  world,  and  they  endeavour  to  belong 
only  to  God,  now  the  sole  object  of  their  love.  The 
Holy  Ghost  comes  in  fire,  because  by  Him  our  cold 
hearts  are  warmed  and  filled  with  desires  of  eternity. 
And,  being  co-eternal  with  the  Son,  the  same  Spirit 
appeared  in  the  shape  of  tongues  of  fire,  and  thus  showed 
the  intimate  relationship  between  the  tongue  and  the 
Word.  For  the  Son  is  the  Word  of  the  Father,  and 
since  the  Holy  Ghost  and  the  Son  have  the  same  Divine 
Nature,  it  was  fit  that  this  Spirit  should  appear  in  the 
form  of  a  tongue,  this  being  the  organ  of  words.  The 
Holy  Ghost  was  seen  in  tongues,  for  he  that  receives  this 
Spirit  will  confess  the  Word  of  God,  the  only-begotten 
Son  ;  and  he  cannot  deny  the  Word,  since  he  already 
possesses  the  tongue  of  the  Spirit.  Again  He  appeared 
in  the  shape  of  tongues  of  five,  because  all  those  filled 
with  the  gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost  are  by  Him  inflamed 
with  love  and  endowed  with  eloquence.  The  true 
teachers  of  the  doctrine  of  Jesus  Christ  have,  so  to 
speak,  fiery  tongues ,  because  they  preach  the  love  of  God, 
and  inflame  the  hearts  of  the  hearers  ;  for  the  most 
.learned  sermons  are  unprofitable,  unless  sparks  of  that 
holy  fire  are  brought  by  them  into  the  hearts  of  men. 
The  heat  of  this  fire  was  felt  by  the  two  disciples  going 
to  Emmaus,  and,  being  taught  by  the  Eternal  Truth,  they 
said  :  Was  not  ouv  heart  burning  within  us ,  whilst  He  spoke 
in  the  way ,  and  opened  to  us  the  Scriptures  ?  (Luke  xxiv.  32). 
These  are  the  effects  produced  in  a  soul  listening  to 
zealous  preaching  :  the  heart  is  inflamed,  the  ice  of 
torpidness  is  melted,  holy  desires  are  aroused,  and  the 
longings  for  earthly  things  are  removed.  Real  love, 
filling  the  soul,  awakens  in  it  sighs  and  tears ;  but  by 


232 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


these  pains,  suffered  under  the  yoke  of  Divine  love,  the 
real  love  is  nourished  and  strengthened.  Such  a  soul 
finds  its  delight  in  hearing  the  word  of  God  and  the 
Divine  commandments,  and  these  commandments  are  as 
many  torches  enlightening  and  guiding  the  soul  on  the 
road  to  salvation,  whereupon  it  had  been  walking  care¬ 
lessly  and  inactively,  but  now  zealously,  because  strength¬ 
ened  by  the  word  of  God.  Thus  Moses  says  :  In  His 
right  hand  a  fiery .  law  (Deut.  xxxiii.  2) ;  for  by  the  left 
hand  are  indicated  the  damned,  one  day  to  be  placed  at 
the  left  hand  of  the  Judge;  whereas  the  right  hand 
shows  the  elect,  who  could  not  behold  the  fiery  law  in 
the  right  hand  of  the  Almighty  without  being  inflamed 
with  fiery  love  to  fulfil  that  law.  As  soon  as  the  words 
of  the  law  are  heard,  these  souls  find  no  other  rest  but 
in  the  sweetness  of  this  fire  consuming  them.  But  as 
the  Holy  Spirit  showed  Himself  under  the  form  of  fires, 
and  on  another  occasion  appeared  under  the  form  of  a 
dove,  this  twofold  symbol  meant  the  effects  produced  by 
Him  in  the  hearts  of  those  who  receive  Him — that  is, 
simplicity  and  ardour  of  love.  By  Him  we  are  made 
artless  through  purity,  and  ardent  through  Divine  zeal. 
For  simplicity  without  zeal  cannot  please  God,  just  as 
zeal  without  an  artless  heart  cannot  be  accepted  by  Him. 
We  hear,  therefore,  the  Truth  say  to  His  Apostles: 
Be  ye9  therefore ,  wise  as  serpents ,  and  simple  as  doves  (Matt, 
x.  16) ;  meaning  that  wise  zeal  must  animate  simplicity, 
whilst  simplicity  is  to  temperate  our  zeal.  This  is 
corroborated  by  “the  great  Apostle  admonishing  us  in 
these  words  :  Brethren ,  do  not  become  children  in  sense ,  but  in 
malice  be  children ,  and  in  sense  be  perfect  (1  Cor.  xiv.  20). 
And  Holy  Scripture,  speaking  of  Job  as  a  simple  man, 
says  :  And  this  man  was  simple ,  and  upright,  and  fearing  God . 
By  which  We  are  taught  that  there  can  be  no  upright- 


WHIT-SUNDAY,  THE  FEAST  OF  PENTECOST  233 

ness  without  simplicity,  nor  simplicity  agreeable  to  God 
without  uprightness.  And  since  the  Holy  Ghost  came 
to  teach  us  both  these  virtues,  He  appeared  as  a  dove 
and  as  fire,  in  order  to  teach  us  meekness  and  peaceful¬ 
ness  under  the  form  of  a  dove,  and  ardent  love  for  justice 
under  the  form  of  fire — virtues  imparted  to  those  that 
receive  Him. 

VI.  The  motive  why  the  same  Holy  Spirit  came  upon 
the  Redeemer  as  a  dove,  and  upon  the  Apostles  in  tongues 
of  fire,  is  apparent  when  we  consider  that  the  wrath  of 
the  justice  of  the  Son  of  God  could  not  have  been  borne 
by  us,  had  He  appeared  in  fire  to  judge  and  punish,  before 
attracting  us  through  the  sweetness  of  His  blessings. 
The  Son  of  God  became  man  to  redeem  all  men,  and  He 
showed  Himself  full  of  meekness  that  we  might  find  His 
yoke  light  and  amiable  ;  also  because  He  wished  to  con- 
vert  and  to  be  merciful  to  all  in  this  life,  since  in  His 
justice  He  must  condemn  some  of  them  on  the  day  of 
His  wrath.  This  is  the  reason  why  the  Holy  Ghost 
showed  Himself  first  as  a  dove  upon  Him  who  had  come 
to  forgive  the  sins  of  men,  and  not  to  punish.  But  if  on 
this  day  He  appeared  in  consuming  fire,  it  means  that 
the  Apostles,  being  mere  men,  and  consequently  sinners, 
were  to  be  purified  in  the  fire  of  Divine  love,  cleansed  by 
their  own  penance  from  their  faults,  though  God  in  His 
infinite  mercy  is  always  ready  to  forgive  sins  ;  for  let 
us  not  imagine  that  the  Apostles,  entrusted  with  that 
heavenly  ministry,  were  without  sin.  St.  John  writes  : 
If  we  say  that  we  have  no  sin ,  we  deceive  ourselves ,  and  the 
truth  is  not  in  us  9  (1  John  i.  8).  The  Holy  Ghost  came  in 
fire  upon  men,  and  as  a  dove  upon  our  Lord ;  for  Christ 
has  borne  our  sins  patiently  and  mercifully ;  whereas  we 
are  carefully  to  examine  our  sins  and  burn  them  in  the 
fire  of  penance  and  ardent  love  of  God. 


234 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


WHIT-MONDAY. 

Gospel:  John  iii.  16-21.  At  that  time;  Jesus  said  to 
Nicodemus  :  God  so  loved  the  world  as  to  give  His  only- 
begotten  Son  ;  that  whosoever  believeth  in  Him,  may  not 
perish,  but  may  have  life  everlasting.  For  God  sent  not 
His  Son  into  the  world,  to  judge  the  world,  but  that  the 
world  may  be  saved  by  Him.  He  that  believeth  in  Him 
is  not  judged.  But  he  that  doth  not  believe  is  already 
judged:  because  he  believeth  not  in  the  Name  of  the 
only-begotten  Son  of  God.  And  this  is  the  judgment : 
because  the  light  is  come  into  the  world,  and  men  loved 
darkness  rather  than  the  light :  for  their  works  were  evil. 
For  every  one  that  doth  evil  hateth  the  light,  and  cometh 
not  to  the  light,  that  his  works  may  not  be  reproved. 
But  he  that  doth  truth,  cometh  to  the  light,  that  his  works 
may  be  made  manifest,  because  they  are  done  in  God. 


HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Tract  12  on  St.  John. 

I.  Jesus  Christ,  the  Divine  Physician,  is  come  into  the 
world  to  heal  the  sick,  as  far  as  it  lies  in  the  Physician. 
For  that  man,  who  will  not  observe  the  orders  of  that 
Physician,  is  his  own  destroyer.  He  is  come  a  Saviour 
to  the  world.  And  why  is  He  called  the  Saviour  of  the 
world,  but  because  He  is  come  not  to  judge  the  world, 
but  that  the  world  may  be  saved  by  Him .  Thou  dost  not 
choose  to  be  saved  by  Him  ;  of  thy  own  self  thou  shalt 
be  judged.  And  why  do  I  say  shalt  be  judged  ?  See  what 
He  says  :  He  that  believeth  in  Him ,  is  not  judged  ;  but  he  that 
doth  not  believe.  What  dost  thou  expect  He  is  going  to 
say,  but  is  judged  ?  He  says,  is  already  judged .  The 


WHIT-MONDA  Y 


235 


judgment  has  not  yet  appeared,  yet  it  has  already  taken 
place  ;  for  the  Lord  knows  them  that  are  His  ;  knows  who 
shall  persevere  for  the  crown,  persevere  for  the  flame. 
He  knows  the  wheat  on  His  threshing-floor,  and  knows 
the  chaff ;  knows  the  good  corn,  and  knows  the  tares.  He 
that  believeth  not  is  already  judged.  Why  judged  ?  Because 
he  believeth  not  in  the  Name  of  the  only -begotten  Son  of  God, 
II.  And  this  is  the  judgment :  because  the  light  is  come  into 
the  world ,  and  men  loved  darkness  rather  than  the  light ;  for 
their  works  were  evil ,  But,  my  brethren,  whose  works  will 
the  Lord  find  to  be  good  ?  The  works  of  none.  He 
finds  the  works  of  all  evil.  In  what  sense,  then,  is  it 
'  said  that  some  have  done  truth,  and  are  come  to  the 
light  ?  For  this  is  what  follows  :  But  he  that  doth  truth , 
cometh  to  the  lights  that  his  works  may  be  made  manifest ,  because 
they  are  done  in  God .  In  what  sense  have  some  done  a 
good  work  to  come  to  the  light— that  is,  to  Christ  ?  And 
how  have  some  loved  darkness?  For  if  He  finds  all 
men  sinners,  and  heals  all  of  sin,  and  that  serpent,  in 
which  the  death  of  the  Lord  was  figured,  healed  them 
that  were  bitten,  and  on  account  of  the  serpent’s  bite  the 
serpent  was  erected,  that  is,  the  death  of  the  Lord, 
because  of  mortal  men  whom  He  found  sinful ;  how 
are  we  to  understand  that  this  is  the  judgment ;  because  the 
light  is  come  into  the  worlds  and  men  loved  darkness  rather  than 
the  light ;  for  their  works  were  evil  ?  What  is  this  ?  Whose 
works  were  good  ?  Hast  Thou  not  come  to  justify  the 
godless  ?  But  He  says  :  They  loved  darkness  rather,  than 
the  light.  Here  He  makes  the  great  point ;  for  many 
loved  their  sins,  many  confessed  their  sins.  Now,  he 
that  confesses  his  sins  and  accuses  his  sins,  henceforth 
works  with  God.  God  accuses  thy  sins,  and  if  thou  also 
accusest,  thou  art  united  with  God.  There  are,  as  it  were, 
two  things  :  man  and  sinner.  That  thou  art  called  man, 


236 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


is  God’s  doing  ;  that  thou  art  called  sinner,  is  man’s  own 
doing.  Blot  out  what  was  thy  doing,  that  God  may  save 
what  was  His  doing.  It  behoves  thee  to  hate  thine  own 
work  in  thee,  and  to  love  the  work  of  God  in  thee.  Now, 
when  thy  own  works  begin  to  be  displeasing  to  thee, 
from  that  time  thy  good  works  begin,  because  thou 
accusest  thy  evil  works.  The  confession  of  evil  works  is 
the  beginning  of  good  works.  Thou  dost  truth,  and 
comest  to  the  light.  What  means  thou  dost  truth  ?  If 
thou  dost  not  fondle  thyself,  nor  soothe,  nor  flatter  thy¬ 
self,  and  dost  not  say,  I  am  just ,  whilst  thou  art  a  sinner, 
thus  thou  beginnest  to  do  the  truth.  Thou  comest  to 
the  light,  that  thy  works  may  be  manifest  that  they  are 
done  in  God.  For  thy  sins,  the  very  thing  that  gave 
thee  displeasure,  would  not  have  displeased  thee,  had  not 
God  shone  in  thee,  and  His  truth  showed  them  to  thee. 
But  the  man  who,  being  admonished,  loves  his  sins,  hates 
the  light  admonishing  him,  and  flees  from  it,  that  his 
works,  which  he  loves,  may  not  be  proved  as  evil. 
Whereas  he  that  does  truth,  accuses  his  evil  works  in 
himself,  spares  not  himself,  forgives  not  himself,  that 
God  may  forgive  him ;  for  he  himself  acknowledges 
that  which  he  desires  to  be  forgiven  by  God,  and  he 
comes  to  the  light,  to  which  he  is  thankful  for  showing 
him  what  he  should  hate  in  himself.  He  says  to  God : 
Turn  away  Thy  face  from  my  sins  ;  and  with  what  assurance 
says  it,  unless  he  adds  :  For  I  know  my  iniquity ,  and  my  sin 
is  always  before  me  (Ps.  1.  n,  5).  Let  that  be  before  thee 
which  thou  desirest  not  to  be  before  God.  But  if  thou 
wilt  put  thy  sin  behind  thee,  God  will  force  it  back  before 
thy  eyes  ;  and  this  He  will  do  at  a  time  when  there  will 
be  no  more  fruit  of  repentance. 

III.  My  brethren,  run,  that  the  darkness  come  not 
upon  you.  Awake  to  your  salvation ;  awake  while  there 


WHIT-MONDA  Y 


237 


is  time,  Let  none  be  kept  back  from  the  temple  of  God, 
none  kept  back  from  the  work  of  the  Lord,  none  called 
away  from  continual  prayer,  none  be  defrauded  of  the 
customary  devotion.  Awake,  then,  while  it  is  day ;  the 
day  shines,  Christ  is  the  day.  He  is  ready  to  forgive  sins 
to  them  that  acknowledge  their  sins ;  ready  to  punish 
those  who  defend  themselves,  and  who  boast  that  they 
are  just,  and  think  themselves  to  be  something,  when 
they  are  nothing.  But  he  that  walks  in  His  love  and 
mercy,  and  being  free  from  these  great  and  deadly  sins, 
such  crimes  as  murder,  theft,  adultery,  but  is  also  sorry 
for  those  which  seem  to  be  small,  sins  of  thought  or  of 
tongue,  or  of  want  of  moderation  in  things  permitted,  he 
does  the  truth  of  confession  and  comes  to  the  light  in 
good  works,  seeing  that  many  small  sins,  if  they  be 
neglected,  are  fatal.  Small  are  the  drops  which  swell  the 
river,  small  the  grains  of  sand,  but  if  such  sand  be 
heaped  up,  it  presses  and  crushes.  The  bilge-water 
allowed  to  accumulate  in  the  ship’s  hold,  does  the  same 
thing  as  a  rushing  wave.  By  little  and  little  it  leaks  in 
through  the  hold  ;  and  by  long  leaking  in  and  no  pumping 
out  it  sinks  the  vessel.  Now,  what  is  this  pumping  out, 
but  that  by  good  works,  by  sighing,  fasting,  giving,  forgiv¬ 
ing,  we  take  care  that  sins  overwhelm  us  not  ?  Truly  the 
path  of  this  life  is  troublesome,  full  of  temptations ;  in 
prosperity  let  it  not  lift  us  up  ;  in  adversity  let  it  not 
crush  us.  He  who  gave  the  happiness  of  this  world, 
gave  it  for  your  comfort,  not  for  your  ruin.  Again,  He 
who  scourges  you  in  this  world,  does  it  for  your  improve¬ 
ment,  not  for  your  condemnation.  You  must  bear  Him 
as  a  Father  Who  corrects  you  for  your  training,  lest  you 
feel  Him  as  a.Judge  Who  will  punish  yob.  These  things 
we  tell  you  every  day,  and  they  must  be  said  often, 
because  they  are  good  and  wholesome. 


238 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


TRINITY  SUNDAY. 

Gospel:  Matt,  xxviii.  18-20.  At  that  time:  Jesus  said 
to  ’  His  disciples :  All  power  is  given  to  Me  in  heaven 
and  in  earth.  Going,  therefore,  teach  ye  all  nations  ; 
baptizing  them  in  the  Name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son, 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Teaching  them  to  observe  all 
things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you;  and  behold  I 
am  with  you  all  days,  even  to  the  consummation  of  the 
world, 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  GREGORY  OF  NAZIANZUS. 

Treatise  on  the  Faith. 

I.  Is  there  a  Catholic  in  the  world  who  does  not  know 
that  the  Father  is  a  very  Father,  the  Son  a  very  Son, 
and  the  Holy  Ghost  a  very  Holy  Ghost?  The  Lord 
Himself  said  to  His  Apostles :  All  power  is  given  to  Me  in 
heaven  and  in  earth .  Goings  therefore ,  teach  ye  all  nations ; 
baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the  Father ,  and  of  the  Son ,  and 
of  the  Holy  Ghost .  This  is  that  perfect  Trinity,  consisting 
in  Unity,  of  Whom  we  testify  that  His  substance  is  one  ; 
for  we  make  no  division  in  God  as  divisions  are  made  in 
bodies ;  but  we  testify  that,  according  to  the  power  of  the 
Divine  Nature,  which  exists  not  in  matter,  the  Persons 
have  a  real  existence,  and  that  God  is  one.  We  also 
believe  that  these  three  names  and  the  Persons  meant  by 
them,  are  all  of  one  Substance,  one  Majesty,  and  one 
Power ;  and  we  do  not  say,  as  some  have  dreamt,  that 
the  begetting  of  the  Son  of  God  is  an  extension  from  one 
part  to  another  part,  neither  do  we  say  that  He  is  the 
Word  in  the  sense  of  a  mere  sound  uttered  by  a  voice, 
and  not  a  reality. 

II.  We  testify,  therefore,  that  God  is  one,  because 


TRINITY  SUNDAY 


239 


this  oneness  of  His  Majesty  forbids  the  use  of  the  plural 
form  of  speech  saying  Gods.  It  is  Catholic  language  to 
say  Father  and  Son ;  but  we  cannot  and  must  not  say 
that  the  Father  and  the  Son  are  two  Gods.  And  that,  not 
because  the*  Son  of  God  is  not  by  Himself  God — for  He 
is  true  God  of  true  God — but  because  we  know  that  the 
Son  of  God  is  not  from  elsewhere,  but  from  the  One 
Father,  therefore  we  say  that  God  is  one.  This  is  the 
doctrine  which  the  Prophets  and  the  Apostles  have  trans¬ 
mitted  to  us  ;  and  it  is  the  doctrine  which  our  Lord 
Himself  taught,  when  He  said :  I  and  the  Father  are  one 
(John  x.  30).  One  refers  to  the  one  Divinity,  as  I  said  ; 
whereas  are  means  the  Persons.  Thus  the  Apostle  says : 
To  us  there  is  but  one  God ,  the  Father,  of  Whom  are  all  things , 
and  we  unto  Him ;  and  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ ,  by  Whom  are 
all  things ,  and  we  by  Him.  But  there  is  not  knowledge  in 
everyone  (1  Cor.  viii.  6,  7).  Concerning  this  truth,  and 
having  explained  these  words  which  were  a  stumbling- 
block,  not  to  me  who  know  what  I  am  saying,  but  to 
others,  I  believe  to  have  removed  every  occasion  of  a 
false  interpretation.  The  profession  of  faith  is  manifest : 
for  Person  agrees  with  the  words  used,  while  the 
Divinity  is  one.  Should  anything  else  in  these  words 
seem  ambiguous  to  the  reader,  let  him  refer  to  the  real 
meaning  of  the  words.  Though  this  meaning  of  the 
words  is  clear,  the  obstinacy  of  a  biassed  intellect  is  often 
shown ;  and  since  our  exposition  agrees  with  the  truth, 
the  words  also  ought  to  be  clear  to  a  sincere  mind. 

FIRST  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Luke  vi.  36-42.  At  that  time :  Jesus  said  to  His 
disciples:  Be  ye  merciful,  as  your  Father  also  is  merciful. 
Judge  not,  and  you  shall  not  be  judged.  Condemn  not, 


240  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

and  you  shall  not  be  condemned.  Forgive,  and  you  shall 
be  forgiven.  Give,  and  it  shall  be  given  to  you ;  good 
measure,  and  pressed  down,  and  shaken  together,  and 
running  over,  shall  be  given  into  your  bosom.  For  with 
the  same  measure  that  you  shall  mete  withal,  it  shall  be 
measured  to  you  again.  And  He  spoke  also  to  them  a 
similitude  :  Can  the  blind  lead  the  blind  ?  Do  they  not 
both  fall  into  the  ditch  ?  The  disciple  is  not  above  his 
master ;  but  every  one  shall  be  perfect,  if  he  be  as  his 
master.  And  why  seest  thou  the  mote  in  thy  brother’s 
eye ;  but  the  beam  that  is  in  thy  own  eye  thou  considerest 
not  ?  Or  how  canst  thou  say  to  thy  brother  :  Brother, 
let  me  pull  the  mote  out  of  thy  eye,  when  thou  thyself 
seest  not  the  beam  in  thy  own  eye  ?  Hypocrite,  cast 
first  the  beam  out  of  thy  own  eye,  and  then  thou  shalt 
see  clearly  to  take  out  the  mote  from  thy  brother’s  eye. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Fifteenth  Sermon  on  St.  Matthew,  Words  of  our  Lord. 

I.  There  are  two  works  of  mercy  which  deliver  us, 
and  which  are  briefly  laid  down  by  our  Lord  in  the 
Gospel :  Forgive ,  and  you  shall  be  forgiven .  Give,  and  it 
shall  be  given  to  you .  The  words  forgive ,  and  you  shall  be 
forgiven  are  a  promise  of  pardon ;  give ,  and  it  shall  be  given 
to  you  relate  to  doing  kindnesses.  As  to  what  He  says 
of  pardoning,  thou  hast  sins  which  thou  wishest  to  be 
pardoned  thee,  and  thou  hast  another,  who  trespassed 
against  thee,  whom  thou  canst  forgive.  Again,  as  to 
doing  kindnesses,  there  are  beggars  that  ask  of  thee,  and 
thou  art  God’s  beggar.  For  when  we  pray,  we  are  all 
God’s  beggars.  We  stand  before  the  door  of  the  Great 
Householder  ;  we  even  fall  down  on  our  knees  ;  we  groan 
in  supplications,  wishing  to  receive  something,  and  this 


FIRST  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  241 

something  is  God  Himself.  What  does  a  beggar  ask  of 
thee  ?  Bread.  And  what  dost  thou  ask  of  God  but 
Christ,  Who  says :  I  am  the  living  breads  which  came  down 
from  heaven  (John  vi.  51).  Would  you  be  forgiven? 
Forgive.  Forgive ,  and  ye  shall  be  forgiven .  Would  you 
receive  ?  Give,  and  it  shall  be  given  to  you . 

II.  But  now,  why  should  there  be  a  difficulty  in  such 
a  plain  precept  ?  In  this  question  of  forgiveness,  when 
pardon  is  asked  and  is  due  from  him  who  should  grant  it, 
there  may  be  a  difficulty  to  us,  as  it  occurred  to  St. 
Peter :  How  often  shall  my  brother  offend  against  me,  and  I 
forgive  him  ?  till  seven  times  ?  Jesus  saitk  to  him :  I  say  not 
to  thee ,  till  seven  times ;  but  till  seventy  times  seven  times 
(Matt,  xviii.  21,  22).  Now  reckon  up  how  often  thy 
brother  hath  sinned  against  thee.  If  thou  canst  reach 
the  seventy-eighth  fault,  so  as  to  go  beyond  the  seventy 
times  seven,  thou  mayst  take  revenge.  Is  this,  then, 
what  He  really  means  ?  and  is  it  in  reality  so,  that  if 
he  shall  sin  seventy  times  seven ,  thou  shouldst  forgive  him  ; 
but  if  he  shall  sin  seventy  times  and  eight,  it  will  be 
lawful  for  thee  not  to  forgive  ?  No  ;  for  I  dare  say  and 
venture  to  assert,  that  should  he  even  sin  seventy-eight 
times,  thou  must  forgive.  Yea,  if  he  should  sin,  as  I 
have  said,  seventy-eight  times,  forgive.  And  if  he  sin  a 
hundred  times,  forgive.  Why  need  I  say  this,  and  so 
often  ?  Because,  as  often  as  he  shall  sin,  forgive  him. 
Have  I,  then,  taken  upon  me  to  overstep  the  measure  of 
my  Lord  ?  He  fixed  the  limit  of  forgiving  in  the  number 
seventy-seven  ;  shall  I  presume  to  go  beyond  this  limit  ? 
This  is  not  so ;  I  have  not  presumed  to  go  beyond.  I 
have  heard  our  Lord  Himself  speaking  through  His 
Apostle,  where  no  measure  nor  number  is  fixed.  For  He 
says  :  Forgiving  one  another ,  if  any  have  a  complaint  against 
another.  Even  as  God  hath  forgiven  you  in  Christ  (Col. 

16 


242  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

iii.  13,  Eph.  iv.  32).  You  hear  the  rule.  If  Christ  has 
forgiven  thy  sins  seventy-seven  times  only,  and  has 
pardoned  thee  to  this  point  only,  and  refused  to  pardon 
beyond  it,  then  do  thou  also  fix  this  limit,  and  be  loath 
to  go  beyond.  But  if  Christ  has  found  thousands  of 
sins  upon  sins,  and  has  yet  forgiven  them  all,  do  not 
withdraw  thy  mercy,  but  ask  the  forgiveness  of  that 
large  number.  It  was  not  without  a  special  motive  that 
the  Lord  said  seventy-seven  times,  because  there  is  no 
trespass  whatever  which  thou  oughtest  not  to  forgive. 
See  the  servant  in  the  parable,  who,  being  a  debtor,  and 
himself  having  a  debtor,  owed  ten  thousand  talents. 
And  I  suppose  that  ten  thousand  talents  are  at  least 
ten  thousand  sins,  for  I  will  not  say  that  but  one 
talent  includes  all  sins.  And  how  much  did  the  fellow- 
servant  owe  him  ?  He  owed  a  hundred  denarii.  Now, 
is  not  this  more  than  seventy  and  seven  ?  And  yet  the 
Lord  was  angry,  because  he  did  not  forgive.  For  not 
only  is  a  hundred  more  than  seventy-seven,  but  a 
hundred  denarii  are  perhaps  a  thousand  pence .  And 
what  is  this  to  ten  thousand  talents  of  gold  or  silver  ? 

III.  Let  us,  therefore,  be  ready  to  forgive  all  the 
trespasses  which  are  committed  against  us,  if  we  wish  to 
be  forgiven.  For  if  we  consider  our  sins,  and  reckon  up 
what  we  do  in  deed,  what  by  the  eye,  what  by  the  ear, 
what  by  thought,  and  what  by  numberless  motions,  I 
know  not  whether  we  be  able  to  say  that  our  sleep  is 
free  from  sin.  Therefore,  we  daily  beg,  we  daily  entreat 
God  in  prayer,  and  say  to  Him  :  Forgive  us  our  trespasses , 
as  we  forgive  them  that  trespass  against  us  (Matt.  vi.  12). 
And  what  trespasses  ?  All,  or  a  certain  part  ?  Thou 
wilt  answer :  All.  So,  then,  must  we  do  with  our 
debtors.  This  is  the  rule  thou  layest  down,  this  the 
condition  thou  speakest  of,  this  the  agreement  thou 


FIRST  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 


243 


dost  mention  when  saying :  Forgive  us  our  trespasses ,  as  we 
forgive. 

IV.  What,  then,  is  the  meaning  of  seventy-seven  ? 
Listen,  for  it  is  a  great  mystery — a  wonderful  sacra¬ 
ment.  Justice,  as  you  know,  consists  in  the  observance  of 
the  Law  of  God  ;  this  is  true.  And  the  Law  is  set  forth 
in  ten  precepts.  This  is  the  reason  why  the  servant  in 
the  parable  is  said  to  owe  ten  thousand  talents.  This  is 
the  memorable  decalogue  written  by  the  finger  of  God, 
and  delivered  to  His  servant  Moses.  He  owed  ten 
thousand  talents;  and  this  signifies  all  sins,  with  respect 
to  the  number  of  the  Law.  And  the  other  servant  owed 
a  hundred  denarii,  equally  derived  from  the  same  number, 
since  a  hundred  times  hundred  make  ten  thousand,  and 
ten  times  ten  make  a  hundred.  There  was  no  departure 
from  the  number  of  the  Law.  Both  are  debtors,  and 
both  implore  and  beg  for  pardon  ;  but  the  wicked,  un¬ 
grateful  servant  would  not  repay  what  he  had  received, 
and  would  not  grant  to  his  fellow-servant  the  mercy 
which  had  been  undeservedly  accorded  to  him.  Now 
consider  what  sin  is.  The  law  is  denoted  by  ten,  and  sin 
by  eleven.  Why  by  eleven  ?  Because  to  get  to  eleven 
there  is  the  transgression  of  ten ;  when  you  have  passed 
beyond  the  ten,  you  come  to  eleven.  This  high  mystery 
was  figured  out  when  the  tabernacle  was  ordered  to  be 
built.  There  are  many  things  mentioned  there  in 
numbers,  which  are  a  great  mystery.  Among  others, 
curtains  of  goats’  hair  were  ordered  to  be  made  to  cover 
the  top  of  the  tabernacle,  not  ten,  but  eleven,  because  by 
goats’  hair  (haircloth)  is  signified  *the  confession  of  sins. 
Do  you  require  anything  more  ?  Would  you  know  why 
all  sins  are  contained  in  this  number  seventy-seven  ?  Seven 
is  usually  put  for  a  whole,  because  in  seven  days  the 
revolution  of  time  is  completed,  and  when  the  seventh  is 

16 — 2 


244 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


ended,  it  returns  to  the  first  again,  that  the  same  revolu¬ 
tion  may  be  continued.  Therefore,  He  spoke  of  all  sins 
when  He  said  seventy  times  seven  ;  for  multiply  that  eleven 
seven  times,  and  it  makes  seventy-seven.  Therefore,  He 
would  have  all  sins  forgiven  by  marking  them  out  by  the 
number  seventy-seven.  Let  no  one,  then,  refuse  to 
forgive,  lest  it  be  refused  to  him  when  he  prays.  God 
says  :  Forgive ,  and  you  shall  be  forgiven ;  I  have  forgiven 
thee  first ;  do  at  least  forgive  after  that.  If  thou  wilt  not 
forgive,  I  will  call  thee  back,  and  again  put  upon  thee  all 
that  I  had  remitted  to  thee.  The  Truth  does  not  speak 
falsely.  Christ  neither  deceives  nor  is  deceived  ;  and  He 
said  at  the  end  of  the  parable :  So  also  shall  My  heavenly 
Father  do  to  you .  You  find  a  Father,  imitate  your  Father  ; 
for  if  you  will  not  imitate  Him,  you  renounce  your 
inheritance  of  sons  of  God.  So  also  shall  My  heavenly 
Father  do  to  you ,  if  yon  forgive  not  every  one  his  brother  from 
your  heart.  Do  not  say  with  the  tongue,  I  forgive ,  and 
put  off  forgiving  in  the  heart ;  for  by  His  threat  of 
vengeance  God  shows  the  punishment.  Man  can  hear 
your  voice  ;  God  looks  into  the  heart  and  conscience.  If 
you  say,  I  forgive ,  forgive.  Better  it  is  that  you  should 
be  violent  in  words,  and  forgive  in  the  heart,  than  to  be 
gentle  in  words  and  relentless  in  your  heart. 

V.  Unruly  boys  will  beg  and  take  it  hard  when  we  are 
about  to  chastise  them,  and  they  say :  I  have  sinned ,  but 
forgive .  Well,  I  have  forgiven,  and  he  sins  again.  For¬ 
give  me,  he  cries,  and  I  have  forgiven  him.  He  sins  a 
third  time,  and  is  forgiven  ;  a  fourth  time.  Let  him  be 
chastised,  and  he  will  say  :  What  !  have  I  tired  you  out  to 
seventy-seven  times  ?  Now,  if  by  such  exceptions  the 
severity  of  discipline  were  to  sleep,  I  am  sure  that 
wickedness  would  rage  with  impunity  upon  the  suppres¬ 
sion  of  discipline.  What  is  to  be  done  ?  L©t  us  reprove 


FIRST  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 


245 


with  words,  and,  if  necessary,  with  scourges  ;  but  let  us 
forgive  the  sin,  and  cast  away  the  memory  of  it  from  our 
heart.  Therefore,  the  Lord  added,  from  your  heart  ;  so 
that,  though  through  affection  discipline  must  be  exercised, 
gentleness  may  not  depart  from  the  heart.  What  is  so 
kind  and  gentle  as  the  surgeon  with  his  knife  ?  He  that 
is  to  be  cut  cries  out,  yet  cut  he  is;  he  that  is  to  be 
cauterized  cries,  but  he  is  cauterized.  There  is  no  cruelty 
in  this.  The  surgeon  is  cruel  against  the  wounded  part, 
that  the  patient  may  be  cured ;  for  should  the  wound  be 
too  softly  dealt  with,  the  man  would  be  lost.  Thus,  then, 
my  brethren,  my  advice  is  that  we  love  our  brethren, 
though  they  may  have  sinned  against  us ;  that  we  do  not 
let  affection  for  them  depart  from  our  hearts,  and  that, 
when  necessary,  we  exercise  discipline  towards  them,  lest 
wickedness  increase  by  the  relaxation  of  discipline,  and 
we  should  be  accused  on  God's  behalf,  since  it  is  said  to 
us  :  Them  that  sin  reprove  before  all ;  that  the  rest  also  may  have 
fear  (i  Tim.  v.  20).  If  the  sin  be  secret,  rebuke  it  in 
secret ;  if  the  sin  be  public  and  open,  rebuke  it  publicly, 
that  the  sinner  may  be  reformed  and  that  the  rest  also  may 
have  fear . 


FEAST  OF  CORPUS  CHRISTI. 

Gospel  :  John  vi.  56-59.  At  that  time  :  Jesus  said  to  the 
multitude  of  the  Jews  :  My  Flesh  is  meat  indeed,  and  My 
Blood  is  drink  indeed.  He  that  eateth  My  Flesh  and 
drinketh  My  Blood,  abideth  in  Me  and  I  in  him.  As  the 
living  Father  hath  sent  Me,  and  I  live  by  the  Father,  so 
he  that  eateth  Me,  the  same  also  shall  live  by  Me.  This 
is  the  Bread  that  came  down  from  heaven ;  not  as  your 
fathers  did  eat  manna  and  are  dead.  He  that  eateth  this 
Bread  shall  live  for  ever. 


246 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Tract  26  on  St.  John. 

I .  By  the  use  of  meat  and  drink  men  seek  to  attain  to 
this,  that  they  should  neither  hunger  nor  thirst  any  more. 
Yet,  there  is  but  one  Meat  and  one  Drink  which  renders 
those  who  feed  thereon  incorruptible  and  immortal — that 
is,  the  very  communion  with  that  general  assembly  and 
Church  of  God’s  holy  children,  where  there  shall  be  peace 
and  unity  full  and  perfect.  Therefore  it  is,  as  men  of 
God  before  our  times  understood,  that  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  set  before  us  His  Body  and  His  Blood  in  the  like¬ 
ness  of  things,  which  from  being  many,  are  reduced  into 
one.  In  one  loaf  there  are  many  grains,  and  in  one  cup 
of  wine,  the  juice  of  many  grapes.  And  now  He  explains 
how  that  which  He  spoke  of  comes  to  pass,  and  what  it 
is  to  eat  His  Body  and  drink  His  Blood.  He  that  eateth 
My  Fleshy  and  drinketh  My  Blood ,  abideth  in  Me,  and  I  in 
him .  To  abide  in  Christ,  therefore,  and  to  have  Him 
dwelling  in  us,  is  for  a  man  to  eat  that  meat  and  to  drink 
that  cup.  And  he  that  dwells  not  in  Christ,  and  in  whom 
Christ  abides  not,  undoubtedly  does  not  spiritually  eat 
His  Flesh  nor  drink  His  Blood,  though  he  carnally  and 
visibly  press  the  Sacrament  with  his  teeth.  But  rather 
he  eateth  and  drinketh  judgment  to  himself,  because,  being 
unclean,  he  dares  to  come  to  that  secret  and  holy  thing 
of  Christ,  whereunto  no  one  draws  nigh  worthily,  unless 
he  be  pure ;  for  of  such  it  is  said  :  Blessed  are  the  clean  of 
heart,  for  they  shall  see  God  (Matt.  v.  8). 

II,  As  the  living  Father  hath  sent  Me,  and  I  live  by  the 
Father ;  so  he  that  eateth  Me,  the  same  also  shall  live  by  Me. 
Notice  that  our  Lord  does  not  say,  As  I  eat  the  Father, 


FEAST  OF  CORPUS  CHRIST  I 


24 1 


and  live  by  the  Father  ;  so  he  that  eats  Me,  the  same  shall 
live  by  Me.  For  the  Son,  Who  was  begotten  equal  to  the 
Father,  does  not  become  better  by  the  participation  of 
the  Father,  just  as  we  are  made  better  by  the  participa¬ 
tion  of  the  Son  through  the  unity  of  His  Body  and  Blood, 
signified  by  the  eating  and  drinking.  We  live  by  Him, 
eating  Him — that  is,  by  receiving  Him  as  the  eternal  life, 
which  we  had  not  from  ourselves.  He  lives  by  the 
Father,  being  sent  by  Him,  because  He  humbled  Himself , 
becoming  obedient  unto  death,  even  to  the  death  of  the  cross 
(Phil.  ii.  8).  I  live  by  the  Father  as  One  that  is  greater 
than  1  (John  xiv.  28).  Just  as  we  also  live  by  Him,  Who 
is  greater  than  we  are  ;  and  this  results  from  His  being 
sent.  The  sending  is,  in  fact,  the  humbling  Himself, 
taking  the  form  of  a  servant ;  and  this  is  rightly  understood, 
while  also  the  Son’s  equality  with  the  Father  is  entirely 
preserved.  For  the  Father  is  greater  than  the  Son,  con¬ 
sidered  as  man  only ;  but  He  has  the  Son  equal  to  Him¬ 
self  as  God  ;  whilst  the  same  is  both  God  and  man — Son 
of  God  and  Son  of  man,  the  one  Christ  Jesus.  If  these 
words  are  rightly  understood,  then  we  know  why  He 
said  :  A  s  the  living  Father  hath  sent  Me,  and  I  live  by  the 
Father;  so  he  that  eateth  Me,  the  same  also  shall  live  by  Me . 
.Just  as  if  He  had  said  :  My  humbling  Myself — in  that 
He  sent  Me — effected  that  I  should  live  by  the  Father — 
that  is,  that  I  should  refer  My  earthly  life  to  Him  as  the 
greater.  But  that  anyone  should  live  by  Me  is  effected 
by  that  communion  in  which  he  eats  Me.  Therefore, 
being  humbled,  I  live  by  the  Father,  and  man,  being 
raised  up,  lives  by  Me.  But  if  it  was  said,  I  live  by  the 
Father ,  so  as  to  mean  that  He  is  of  the  Father,  not  the 
Father  of  Him,  it  was  said  without  any  detriment  of 
equality.  And  yet,  when  saying,  He  that  eateth  Me,  the 
same  shall  live  by  Me,  He  did  not  mean  to  say  that  His 


248  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

own  equality  was  the  same  as  our  equality,  but  He 
thereby  showed  the  grace  of  the  Mediator. 

III.  This  is  the  Bread  that  came  down  from  heaven ,  that  by 
eating  it  we  may  live  for  ever,  since  we  cannot  have 
eternal  life  from  ourselves.  Not ,  He  says,  as  your  fathers 
did  eat  manna  and  are  dead .  He  that  eateth  this  Bread  shall 
live  for  ever .  That  those  fathers  are  dead,  He  wished  us 
to  understand  as  meaning  that  they  do  not  live  for  ever. 
For  even  those  who  eat  Christ  shall  without  doubt  die 
temporally  ;  but  they  live  for  ever,  because  Christ  is  life 
everlasting. 

SECOND  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Luke  xiv.  16-24.  At  that  time :  Jesus  spoke 
this  parable  to  the  Pharisees  :  A  certain  man  made  a 
great  supper,  and  invited  many.  And  he  sent  his  servant 
at  the  hour  of  supper  to  say  to  them  that  were  invited, 
that  they  should  come,  for  now  all  things  are  ready. 
And  they  began  all  at  once  to  make  excuse.  The  first 
said  to  him :  I  have  bought  a  farm,  and  must  needs  go 
out  and  see  it ;  I  pray  thee,  hold  me  excused.  And 
another  said :  I  have  bought  five  yoke  of  oxen,  and  I  go 
to  try  them  :  I  pray  thee,  hold  me  excused.  And  another 
said  :  I  have  married  a  wife,  and  therefore  I  cannot  come. 
And  the  servant  returning,  told  these  things  to  his  lord. 
Then  the  master  of  the  house,  being  angry,  said  to  his 
servant :  Go  out  quickly  into  the  streets  and  lanes  of  the 
city,  and  bring  in  hither  the  poor,  and  the  feeble,  and  the 
blind,  and  the  lame.  And  the  servant  said :  Lord,  it  is 
done  as  thou  hast  commanded,  and  yet  there  is  room. 
And  the  lord  said  to  the  servant :  Go  out  into  the  high¬ 
ways  and  hedges,  and  compel  them  to  come  in,  that  my 
house  may  be  filled.  But  I  say  unto  you,  that  none  of 
those  men  that  were  invited,  shall  taste  of  my  supper. 


SECOND  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 


249 


HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
CHURCH  OF  SS.  PHILIP  AND  JAMES,  ON  THE  SECOND 
SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Thirty-sixth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  Between  the  pleasures  of  the  body,  beloved  brethren, 
and  the  pleasures  of  the  mind,  there  is  that  difference, 
that  the  pleasures  of  the  body,  when  we  miss  them,  raise 
up  a  great  longing  after  them,  and  when  we  greedily  taste 
them,  our  fulness  soon  produces  dislike  and  aversion. 
Whereas  the  pleasures  of  the  mind  seem  disagreeable  as 
long  as  we  lack  them,  but  when  we  fill  ourselves  with 
them  we  feel  hungry  after  them,  and  the  more  we  feed  on 
them,  the  more  hungry  we  get  after  them.  Bodily  or 
corporal  pleasures  are  full  of  sweetness  when  taken,  but 
soon  excite  nausea;  whereas  in  the  spiritual  feeding,  which 
at  first  seems  bitter,  real  pleasure  is  found  at  the  end. 
What  is  sensual  stirs  up  our  appetite,  yet  we  cannot  take 
it  for  a  time  without  feeling  a  strong  aversion  against  it. 
But  what  is  spiritual  excites  the  appetite  in  the  very  act 
of  eating.  We  see,  therefore,  that  souls  tasting  spiritual 
dainties,  feel  greater  hunger  and  thirst  for  Divine  things 
through  the  sweetness  they  taste.  If  we  taste  them  not, 
we  cannot  love  them,  for  we  know  not  how  sweet  they 
are.  And  who  can  love  that  thing  whereof  he  knows 
nothing  ?  We  are,  therefore,  invited  by  the  Psalmist, 
saying  :  O  taste ,  and  see  that  the  Lord  is  sweet  (Ps.  xxxiii.  9) ; 
that  is,  as  it  were,  if  you  taste  not,  you  shall  not  know 
His  goodness,  but  let  your  heart  once  taste  the  food  of 
life,  then,  indeed,  having  tasted  and  proved  its  sweetness, 
you  will  be  able  to  love  Him.  These  are  the  dainties 
which  were  lost  to  man,  when  he  sinned  in  the  earthly  para¬ 
dise  ;  and  he  lost  Paradise  when  he  shut  his  own  mouth 


250 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


against  the  sweet  bread,  whereof  if  any  man  eat  he  shall 
live  for  ever.  And  as  we  are  born  of  the  first  man  under 
the  afflictions  of  this  pilgrimage,  and  came  into  this 
world  smitten  with  aversion,  we  know  not  what  to  desire. 
And  the  disease  of  this  aversion  grows  worse,  the  more 
our  soul  is  estranged  from  this  bread  of  sweetness.  We 
are  no  longer  hungering  after  interior  dainties,  since  we 
have  lost  the  use  of  eating  them.  And  so  in  this  aversion 
we  starve,  and  the  sickness  of  long  fasting  destroys  our 
health.  We  would  not  eat  of  the  interior  sweetness 
made  ready  for  us,  and  we  love  outward  things,  even  our 
starvation  ;  yet  the  infinite  Goodness  does  not  forsake 
those  by  whom  It  is  forsaken. 

II.  This  goodness  of  God  recalls  to  our  mind  these 
holy  dainties,  so  often  despised,  and  by  trying  to  shake 
off  our  sluggishness,  invites  us  to  overcome  the  aversion 
we  feel  against  this  spiritual  food.  Listen  to  the  words 
of  our  Redeemer  :  A  certain  man  made  a  great  sapper ,  and 
invited  many .  This  man  is  the  same  of  whom  the  prophet 
said :  It  is  a  Man ,  and  who  hath  known  Him  ?  (Jer.  xvii.  9). 
He  prepared  a  great  supper,  for  He  wished  to  give  us  the 
fill  of  interior  sweetness.  Many  were  invited,  but  a  few 
came ;  for  it  often  happens  that  some  of  those  who 
receive  the  light  of  faith,  keep  away  from  the  eternal 
banquet  through  a  bad  life  that  is  opposed  to  their  call¬ 
ing.  This  man  sends  out  his  servant  at  the  hour  of  the 
supper  to  say  to  them  that  were  invited ,  that  they  should  come . 
And  what  is  the  meaning  of  these  words,  the  hour  of  the 
supper  ?  The  end  of  the  world,  as  St.  Paul  explains, 
saying  :  All  these  things  happened  to  them  in  figure ,  and  they 
are  written  for  our  correction ,  upon  whom  the  ends  of  the  world 
are  come  (1  Cor.  x.  11).  And  since  we  know  that  the 
Lord  calls  us  now ,  because  the  hour  of  the  supper,  to 
which  we  are  invited,  has  come,  we  cannot  find  any 


SECOND  SUNDA  Y  AFTER  PENTECOST  251 

excuse  not  to  appear  at  it,  especially  because,  on  account 
of  the  offered  and  yet  neglected  grace,  we  must  fear  that 
the  favourable  hour  will  never  return.  Then,  this  ban¬ 
quet  prepared  by  God,  is  called  in  the  Gospel  a  supper,  to 
give  us  to  understand  that,  supper  being  the  last  meal  of 
the  day,  the  banquet  spoken  of  means  the  eternal  supper 
prepared  by  God  at  the  end  of  the  world.  And  who  is 
the  servant  sent  out  to  call  them  that  were  invited ,  if  not  the 
preachers  bidden  by  God  to  announce  His  truths  ?  As 
one  of  these  servants,  God  has  sent  us,  though  unworthy 
of  this  high  office,  being  bowed  down  under  the  burden 
of  our  own  sins.  God  has  sent  us  to  you  on  this  day  ; 
and  whilst  I  speak  to  you  that  you  may  be  edified  and 
instructed,  I  obey  the  commands  of  the  Divine  House¬ 
holder.  Exhorting  you  to  despise  the  world,  I  am  like 
the  servant  of  the  Gospel,  and  I  invite  you  to  the  supper 
prepared  for  you  by  God.  Do  not  consider  my  person, 
but  only  my  office  ;  for  if  you  see  in  me  a  servant  un¬ 
worthy  to  invite  you,  your  esteem  ought,  at  all  events,  to 
be  given  to  the  pleasures  of  the  spiritual  banquet  to 
which  you  are  invited.  You  know,  beloved  brethren, 
that  a  master,  being  of  a  high  rank,  often  has  a  servant 
who,  seeming  low,  is  despised.  But  when  this  servant 
brings  a  message  to  his  master’s  friends,  it  is  gladly 
accepted  in  consideration  of  the  master,  no  attention 
being  paid  to  the  faults  or  shortcomings  of  the  servant. 
Do  likewise,  beloved  brethren,  and  be  not  disturbed  by 
my  unworthiness,  but  highly  esteem  the  call  of  the  Lord. 
Obey,  and  promptly,  the  invitation  of  the  Divine  House¬ 
holder  to  His  Banquet.  Prepare  your  hearts,  and  expel 
from  them  the  mortal  indifference  which  keeps  you  away 
from  His  sanctifying  Banquet.  And  should  your  minds 
be  still  carnal,  desiring  only  corporeal  food,  consider  that 
the  Flesh  of  your  God  is  offered  to  you  for  the  nourish- 


252  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

ment  of  your  souls.  The  sinless  Lamb  of  God,  killed 
for  you,  is  prepared  for  you  on  God's  altar. 

III.  How  shall  we  be  made  worthy  of  this  invitation  ? 
And  they  began  all  at  once  to  make  excuse ,  says  the  Gospel. 
God  in  His  infinite  love  offers,  without  being  asked  for, 
an  actual  favour,  which  we  could  not  expect,  not  even  by 
our  most  ardent  desires  ;  yet  this  favour  is  despised.  He 
promises  food  for  our  eternal  happiness ;  yet  everyone 
makes  excuse  not  to  accept  it.  Let  us  take  an  ordinary 
example  to  understand  higher  things.  A  mighty  Prince 
invites  a  poor  man  to  his  banquet.  You  will  easily 
imagine  that  this  poor  man  will  be  overwhelmed  with 
joy,  that  he  will  express  his  gratitude  with  modest  and 
humble  words,  and,  taking  off  his  tattered  garments,  will 
endeavour  to  appear  one  of  the  first  in  the  banquet- hall, 
not  to  be  before-handed  by  another.  This  poor  man 
would  certainly  behave  in  this  manner.  And  we  are 
invited  by  God  Himself  to  His  Banquet,  and  ■sVe  make 
excuse,  and  do  not  appear.  Yet  it  seems  to  me,  your 
answer  in  your  heart  will  be  that  you  do  not  excuse  your¬ 
selves,  and  that  you  will  be  only  too  glad  to  partake  of 
this  supper  prepared  for  you. 

IV.  Your  testimony  seems  plausible  enough,  were  it 
not  for  your  own  conscience  telling  you  that  you  are 
inclined  to  love  the  world  more  than  heaven,  and  cor¬ 
poreal  and  perishable  things  more  than  spiritual  and 
invisible  goods.  Consider  the 'motives  alleged  by  the 
invited  guests  for  not  appearing  at  the  supper.  The  first 
said  :  I  have  bought  a  farmy  and  must  needs  go  out  and  see  it  ; 
I  pray  thee  hold  me  excused .  This  farm  he  speaks  of,  what 
does  it  mean  but  the  earthly  and  perishable  goods  ?  He 
goes  out  to  see  it,  for  he  is  only  busy  with  and  fettered 
by  exterior  and  temporal  possessions.  And  another  said  : 
I  have  bought  five  yoke  of  oxen ,  and  I  go  to  try  them  ;  I  pray 


SECOND  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTEC0S7  253 

thee  hold  me  excused .  Cannot  the  five  corporal  senses  of 
man  be  understood  under  the  number  of  these  yoke  of 
oxen  ?  And  is  it  not  with  a  special  reason  that  animals 
are  put  before  us  under  the  yoke,  or  in  couples,  as  both 
sexes  are  subject  to  the  exterior  sense  ?  By  these  senses 
we  are  not  elevated  to  the  knowledge  of  supernatural 
things,  but  we  remain  with  the  corporeal  ones.  Through 
these  man  forsakes  the  knowledge  of  the  things  within 
him,  and  clings  to  those  without.  And  this  is  the  cause 
of  our  inquisitiveness  concerning  the  life  of  our  neigh¬ 
bour,  whilst  we  overlook  our  own  life.  The  human  mind 
is,  indeed,  of  this  disposition,  trying  to  know  things 
which  are  of  no  concern,  and  overlooking  those  which 
ought  to  be  the  first  and  paramount  care.  Not  without 
a  special  reason  is  it  said  about  the  five  yoke  of  oxen  :  / 
go  to  try  them  ;  I  pray  thee  hold  me  excused .  Such  excuse 
clearly  shows  the  curiosity  of  the  man.  This  vice 
mastered  him  entirely,  and  led  him  to  go  and  try  exterior 
and  not  spiritual  things.  Now,  consider  how  those  who 
wished  to  be  excused  by  the  householder  for  not  coming 
to  his  banquet — the  one  on  account  of  the  farm  and  the 
other  on  account  of  the  five  yoke  of  oxen — at  first  made 
use  of  very  humble  language,  I  pray  thee  hold  me  excused . 
Yet  this  humility  is  in  their  words  only,  while  the  con¬ 
tempt  for  the  householder  resides  in  their  doings.  And 
such  is  the  conduct  of  many  Christians  towards  the 
ministers  of  God,  when  punished  by  them  for  their  mis¬ 
deeds.  Being  admonished  in  such  words  as  :  ‘  Do  be 
converted  ;  return  to  God  ;  avoid  the  world  and  its  sins  ;* 
their  answer  to  the  zealous  servant  of  God,  inviting  them 
to  the  Lord’s  banquet,  will  be  :  6  We  are  not  worthy  of 
the  grace  offered  to  us ;  we  are  sinners ;  we  cannot  obey 
you ;  but  do  not  forget  to  pray  the  Lord  for  us.’  Are 
they  not  like  the  invited  guests,  who  asked  the  servant  to 


254 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


excuse  them  ?  Saying  that  they  are  sinners,  they  seem 
to  humble  themselves,  but  adding  that  they  cannot  be 
converted,  their  pride  is  only  too  obvious.  Their  false 
humility  is  shown  by  their  words,  and  by  their  acts,  their 
real  pride. 

V.  And  another  said:  I  have  married  a  wife ,  and  therefore 
I  cannot  come .  The  real  reason  of  his  refusal  is  found  in 
the  vice  of  voluptuousness.  Indeed,  though  marriage  is 
in  itself  good  and  lawful,  being  instituted  by  Divine 
Providence  for  the  propagation  of  the  human  race,  yet 
it  is  often  desired,  not  for  that  legitimate  purpose,  but 
for  the  satisfaction  of  vicious  desires ;  so  that  under  the 
words  of  an  action,  just  in  itself,  unlawful  intentions  are 
often  hidden.  The  Divine  Master  of  the  house  invites 
you  to  His  heavenly  Banquet ;  yet  you  refuse,  since  the 
love  of  earthly  goods,  inquisitiveness,  and  sinful  lust  keep 
you  away.  You  act  in  the  same  manner  as  those  who, 
on  account  of  their  excuses,  were  rejected  by  the  house¬ 
holder  of  the  Gospel.  They  alleged  the  same  reasons 
you  make  use  of,  and  showed  the  same  aversion  against 
the  heavenly  food  offered  to  men. 

VI.  And  the  servant ,  returning ,  told  these  things  to  his  lord . 
Then  the  master  of  the  house ,  being  angry ,  said  to  his  servant : 
Go  out  quickly  into  the  streets  and  lanes  of  the  city ,  and  bring 
in  hither  the  poor ,  and  the  feeble ,  and  the  blind ,  and  the  lame . 
The  Lord,  therefore,  shuts  out  of  His  Banquet  those 
who  are  only  and  solely  clinging  to  the  goods  of  this 
earth,  those  addicted  to  useless  curiosity,  and  those 
given  up  to  sinful  lust.  The  proud  also  are  rejected,  and 
the  poor  are  chosen.  How  is  this  ?  Listen  to  St.  Paul 
saying  :  The  foolish  things  of  the  world  hath  God  chosen ,  that 
He  may  confound  the  wise ;  and  the  weak  things  of  the  world 
hath  God  chosen ,  that  He  may  confound  the  strong  (i  Cor. 
i.  27).  Now,  notice  that  those  brought  to  the  banquet 


SECOND  SUNDAY  AFTER  TENT  ECO  ST  255 

are  called  poor  and  feeble ,  to  point  out  that  they  were  not 
relying  on  their  own  strength,  but  recognised  their  weak¬ 
ness.  For  he  that,  in  the  midst  of  his  poverty,  has  a 
high  opinion  of  himself,  is  proud  in  spite  of  his  needs. 
Again,  the  blind  may  be  said  to  be  those  deprived  of  the 
interior  light ;  the  lame,  those  who  do  not  go  straight  in 
the  path  of  justice.  Now,  these  exterior  deformities 
seem  to  be  the  marks  of  interior  defects  ;  it  follows,  then, 
that  they  are  sinners,  like  the  first  who  refused  to  come 
to  the  Banquet.  But  because  they  are  humble  they  are 
preferred  and  received,  on  account  of  their  humble 
sentiments. 

VII.  The  despised  by  the  world  are  therefore  chosen 
by  God;  for  it  often  happens  that  the  little  esteem  in 
which  they  are  held  makes  them  reflect  on  themselves, 
and  urges  them  to  follow  the  prodigal  son  of  the  Gospel, 
who,  having  wasted  his  substance  living  riotously,  and 
being  in  want,  returned  to  himself,  and  said  :  How  many 
hived  servants  in  my  father's  house  abound  with  bread  ?  (Luke 
xv.  17).  As  long  as  he  was  living  in  sinful  abundance, 
he  knew  not  himself,  but  went,  so  to  speak,  away  from 
himself,  not  to  see  the  sad  condition  in  which  he  was 
plunged.  He  would  not  have  returned  to  himself,  had 
not  the  corporal  hunger  he  suffered  shown  him  the 
terrible  spiritual  distress  of  his  soul.  The  poor  and  the 
feeble,  the  blind  and  the  lame,  are  called  by  God,  and 
they  come,  because  they  are  infirm  and  despicable  in 
the  eyes  of  the  world.  They  are  the  more  willing  and 
prompt  to  listen  to  the  voice  of  God,  the  less  attention 
and  comfort  they  receive  from  the  world. 

VIII.  However,  the  sentence  pronounced  by  our 
Lord  against  all  those  who  refused  to  accept  the  invita¬ 
tion,  is  exceedingly  terrible.  I  entreat  you,  therefore, 
you,  beloved  brethren,  and  you,  my  teachers,  you  who 


256 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


are  sinners  and  you  who  are  just — I  entreat  you  to  give 
your  serious  attention  to  His  words,  that  He  may  be  the 
less  feared  on  the  day  of  the  judgment,  the  more  He  is 
feared  by  you  now,  when  attentively  listening  to  my 
words.  He  adds :  1  say  unto  you ,  That  none  of  those  men 
that  were  invited ,  shall  taste  of  My  supper .  At  sundry  times 
and  in  divers  manners  you  have  been  called  by  God  : 
through  His  Angels,  sent  to  guide  us ;  through  the 
Prophets  and  Fathers,  gone  before  us ;  through  the 
Apostles  and  pastors ;  and,  lastly,  through  our  ministry ; 
do  not  despise  His  invitation.  Should  the  voice  of  God 
be  heard  by  you  in  miracles  or  punishments,  in  blessings 
or  adversities,  do  not  refuse  to  listen  to  it.  For,  were 
you  unwilling  to  accept  the  invitation  now,  the  time 
might  come  when  the  entrance  to  the  banquet  will  be 
refused  to  you,  just  when  you  are  most  desirous  to  obtain 
that  favour.  Remember  what  Wisdom  tells  us  through 
Solomon  :  Then  they  shall  call  upon  me ,  and  I  will  not  hear  ; 
they  shall  rise  in  the  morning ,  and  shall  not  find  me  (Prov. 
i.  28).  And  the  foolish  virgins,  coming  late,  exclaim  : 
Lord ,  Lord ,  open  to  us.  But  the  Bridegroom ,  answering ,  said : 
Amen  I  say  to  you^I  know  you  not  (Matt.  xxv.  11,  12). 
And  now  need  I  tell  you,  beloved  brethren,  to  forsake  all 
things,  to  renounce  the  cares  and  concerns  of  this  world, 
and  to  think  only  of  eternity  ?  Such  a  blessing  is  given 
to  a  few  only ;  and  I  do  not  flatter  myself  that  you  will 
be  induced,  in  consequence  of  my  admonitions,  to  forsake 
all  the  things  you  possess.  But  if  you  cannot  do  so,  at 
least  keep  your  earthly  goods  in  such  a  way  as  not  to  be 
possessed  by  them ;  keep  them  in  your  possession,  so 
that  your  heart  may  not  be  enslaved  by  them ;  make 
use  of  the  goods  of  this  world,  and  desire  the  eternal 
gifts.  Temporal  goods  help  us  on  the  journey  of  this 
life,  but  eternal  goods  alone  are  deserving  of  our  con- 


SECOND  SUN  DA  Y  AFTER  PENTECOST  257 

tinual  desires  and  efforts  to  possess  them.  Whatsoever 
happens  in  this  world  ought  to  be  looked  upon  with 
indifference,  whilst  the  eyes  of  our  soul  are  to  be  con¬ 
tinually  directed  towards  the  desired  eternal  felicity. 
Let  us  entirely  root  out  the  vices  of  our  heart,  so  that 
we  may  be  ready  not  only  to  avoid  every  sinful  act,  but 
even  to  banish  the  least  sinful  thought.  Then  neither  the 
lust  of  the  flesh,  nor  over-curiosity  or  desire  for  honours 
will  keep  us  away  from  the  Banquet  of  the  Lord.  When 
applying  ourselves  to  honest  and  necessary  occupations, 
let  not  our  mind  be  so  intent  on  them,  as  to  give  them 
bur  whole  heart.  You  see,  therefore,  beloved  brethren, 
that  you  are  not  asked  to  forsake  all  things,  but  that, 
though  keeping  what  you  possess,  you  may  in  spirit 
deprive  yourselves  of  all  things — that  is  to  say,  you  will 
make  use  of  earthly  things,  so  as  to  found  all  your  hopes 
and  desires  upon  eternal  goods.  Follow  this  advice  of 
St.  Paul  :  The  time  is  short ;  it  remaineth ,  that  they  that 
weepy  be  as  though  they  wept  not ;  and  they  that  rejoice ,  as  if 
they  rejoiced  not ;  and  they  that  buy ,  as  though  they  possessed 
not ;  and  they  that  use  this  world ,  as  if  they  used  it  not ;  for 
the  fashion  of  this  world  passeth  away  (1  Cor.  vii.  29  and 
following). 

THIRD  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Luke  xv.  1-10.  At  that  time :  The  publicans 
and  sinners  drew  near  unto  Jesus  to  hear  Him.  And  the 
Pharisees  and  Scribes  murmured,  saying :  This  man 
receiveth  sinners,  and  eateth  with  them.  And  He  spoke 
to  them  this  parable,  saying :  What  man  of  you  that 
hath  an  hundred  sheep,  and  if  he  shall  lose  one  of  them, 
doth  he  not  leave  the  ninety-nine  in  the  desert,  and  go 
after  that  which  was  lost  until  he  find  it  ?  And  when  he 

17 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


258 

hath  found  it,  lay  it  upon  his  shoulders  rejoicing ;  and, 
coming  home,  call  together  his  friends  and  neighbours, 
saying  to  them  :  Rejoice  with  me,  because  I  have  found 
my  sheep  that  was  lost.  I  say  to  you,  that  even  so  there 
shall  be  joy  in  heaven  upon  one  sinner  that  doth  penance, 
more  than  upon  ninety-nine  just  who  need  not  penance. 
.  Or  what  woman,  having  ten  groats,  if  she  lose  one  groat, 
doth  not  light  a  candle,  and  sweep  the  house,  and  seek 
diligently  until  she  find  it  ?  And  when  she  hath  found  it, 
call  together  her  friends  and  neighbours,  saying :  Rejoice 
with  me,  because  I  have  found  the  groat  which  I  had 
lost.  So  I  say  to  you,  there  shall  be  joy  before  the 
angels  of  God  upon  one  sinner  doing  penance. 

HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 

CHURCH  OF  SS.  JOHN  AND  PAUL  ON  THE  THIRD 

SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Thirty-fourth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  You  have  heard,  beloved  brethren,  from  the  Gospel 
just  read  out  to  you,  that  the  publicans  and  sinners  drew 
near  our  Lord,  and  were  received  by  Him,  not  only  to 
speak,  but  also  to  eat  with  Him  ;  and  the  Pharisees  and 
Scribes,  seeing  this,  murmured.  Learn  from  this  that 
true  justice  is  merciful,  whereas  false  justice  is  full  of  con¬ 
tempt,  though  even  the  just  sometimes  feel  moved  with 
indignation  against  sinners.  However,  we  distinguish 
between  a  feeling  of  indignation  through  pride,  and 
another  such  feeling  through  love  for  the  law.  He  that 
has  a  true  zeal  feels  indignant  against  sin,  but  he 
despises  not  the  sinner ;  he  feels  a  holy  impatience,  but 
he  loses  not  hope ;  he  will  fight  against  sinners  so  as  yet 
loving  them ;  and  though  he  will  exteriorly  punish  them 
with  strong  words,  he  will  always  preserve  in  his  heart 


THIRD  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 


259 


the  sweetness  of  love.  The  just  man  prefers  to  himself 
in  his  heart  those  whom  he  is  correcting,  and  thinks 
those  he  judges,  better  than  himself.  And,  so  doing,  he 
preserves  discipline  in  those  who  are  subject  to  him,  and 
in  himself,  real  humility.  Whereas  those  possessing  a 
false  justice,  by  which  they  are  rendered  prouder,  have  . 
only  contempt  for  others  ;  they  spare  them  not ;  they  are 
unmerciful  to  their  misery,  and  thus  are  the  more  sinful, 
because  they  perceive  not  that  they  themselves  are 
sinners.  Such  were  the  Pharisees  who  judged  our  Lord 
because  He  received  sinners.  Their  hearts  were  mortally 
dry,  whilst  they  rebuked  the  very  fountain  of  mercy. 

II.  Their  sickness  was  so  desperate  that  they  recognised 
not  even  they  were  sick.  But  the  heavenly  Physician, 
that  they  might  know  of  their  sickness,  applied  to  them 
soft  ointments  by  means  of  a  gracious  parable,  and  lanced 
the  abscess  of  their  proud  heart.  He  said  :  What  man  of 
you  that  hath  an  hundred  sheeps  and  if  he  shall  lose  one  of  them , 
doth  he  not  leave  the  ninety-nine  in  the  desert ,  and  go  after  that 
which  was  lost  until  he  find  it?  We  cannot  sufficiently 
admire  the  infinite  wisdom  and  goodness  of  our  Redeemer, 
who  in  this  parable  compels  man  to  recognise  himself, 
whilst  his  Creator's  image  is  placed  before  him.  Consider 
that  one  hundred  is  a  perfect  number  representing  angels 
and  men,  created  by  God  and  being  His  sheep.  You 
will  easily  recognise  that  man  is  the  lost  sheep,  since 
through  sin  he  left  the  life-giving  pastures  allotted  to 
him  by  God  ;  and  that  this  lost  sheep  might  be  found, 
the  ninety-nine  were  left  in  the  desert.  For  our  Redeemer 
left  the  choirs  of  the  angels  in  heaven,  and  came  into  this 
world  to  His  human  creatures.  Why  is  heaven  compared 
to  a  desert?  Because  man,  by  his  sins,  deserted  that 
place  created  for  him.  And  the  angels,  prefigured  by 
the  other  sheep,  inhabited  that  desert,  whilst  the  lost 

1 7 — 2 


26o 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


sheep  on  earth  were  sought  after  by  the  Divine  Shepherd. 
This  desert  had  its  beginning,  when  the  number  of  angels 
and  men,  created  for  the  contemplation  of  the  Almighty, 
was  diminished  by  the  transgression  of  man.  The  lost 
sheep  on  earth  were  gone  after,  that  the  full  number  of 
His  sheep  in  heaven  might  be  restored.  Thus  we  see 
that  another  Evangelist  (Matt,  xviii.  12)  uses  the  expres¬ 
sion  mountains  instead  of  desert,  clearly  indicating  that 
the  angels,  dwelling  in  the  highest,  are  those  sheep  which 
remained  in  the  heavenly  pastures  prepared  by  their 
Creator.  And  when  he  hath  found  it ,  lay  it  upon  his  shoulders 
rejoicing .  Do  we  not  recognise  in  this  image  our  Saviour 
Himself,  who,  taking  our  human  nature,  burdened  Him¬ 
self  with  our  sins?  And ,  coming  home ,  call  together  his 
friends  and  neighbours ,  saying  to  them :  Rejoice  with  me , 
because  I  have  found  my  sheep  that  was  lost .  After  finding 
the  lost  sheep  He  came  home ;  for  after  redeeming  the 
human  nature,  that  lost  sheep,  Jesus  Christ  returned  to 
His  home,  the  eternal  kingdom.  There  He  found  His 
friends  and  neighbours — that  is,  the  choirs  of  the  angels. 
They  are  His  friends,  for  they  have  continually  and 
faithfully  done  His  will.  They  are  His  neighbours,  for, 
walking  in  His  presence,  they  are  enlightened  by  the  rays 
of  His  glory.  The  Divine  Shepherd  does  not  say : 
Rejoice  with  My  sheep,  but  Rejoice  with  Me  ;  for  His  joy 
is  to  give  us  life,  and  His  desire  and  joy  will  be  complete 
when  we  enter  His  kingdom. 

III.  This  is  explained  by  our  Lord  Himself:  I  say  to 
you9  that  even  so  there  shall  be  joy  in  heaven  upon  one  sinner  that 
doth  penance ,  more  than  upon  ninety -nine  just  who  need  not 
penance .  Why  does  our  Lord  say  that  heaven  will  rejoice 
upon  sinners  doing  penance,  more  than  upon  the  just  who 
persevere  in  their  justice  ?  It  is  because,  according  to  our 
daily  experience,  the  just,  not  forsaking  the  ways  of 


THIRD  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  261 

justice,  are  not  over  anxious  to  win  heaven,  since  they  do 
not  feel  themselves  burdened  with  sins,  and  are  free 
from  all  unlawful  doings.  They  abstain  the  less  from 
lawful  things,  the  more  convinced  they  are  of  their  re¬ 
nouncing  forbidden  things ;  thus  they  do  not  endeavour 
to  attain  to  higher  things,  being  conscious  of  their  never 
committing  any  grievous  fault.  Whereas  sinners,  re¬ 
membering  their  former  vicious  life,  and  penetrated  by 
deep  and  sincere  contrition,  return  to  God  with  an  ardent 
love.  They  begin  to  practise  the  most  heroic  virtues, 
and  fight  hard  for  a  glorious  victory  over  themselves. 
They  are  no  longer  moved  by  the  pleasures  of  the  world, 
nor  by  honours  or  dignities,  but  they  rejoice  in  bearing 
with  injustice  and  iniquities.  Their  only  longing  is  after 
heaven,. their  only  desire,  to  obtain  the  eternal  felicity; 
and  thus  they  make  amends  for  their  former  sins  by  the 
rich  treasure  of  their  merits.  Do  not  wonder,  therefore, 
that  there  is  joy  in  heaven  upon  one  sinner  doing  penance, 
more  than  upon  the  just  persevering  in  justice.  A  soldier 
who  at  the  first  shock  of  the  battle  lost  heart  and  ran 
away,  but  at  once  returned  with  great  courage  to  strike 
and  overwhelm  the  enemy,  will  receive  from  the  com¬ 
mander  more  praise  than  another  who,  though  not  turn¬ 
ing  his  back  to  the  enemy,  never  showed  any  act  of  real 
courage.  Thus  also  a  field,  formerly  covered  with 
thistles  and  thorns,  but  now  yielding  a  rich  harvest,  will 
be  preferred  by  the  farmer  to  a  soil  which,  though  never 
covered  with  thistles,  has  not  been  as  fertile  as  the  other. 

IV.  However,  we  must  confess  that  among  the  just 
there  are  to  be  found  many,  who  rejoice  in  heaven  more 
than  converted  sinners  do  by  their  most  sincere  penance. 
For  there  are  a  great  many  who,  leading  a  perfectly  inno¬ 
cent  life,  nevertheless  punish  themselves  with  great 
severity,  as  if  they  had  committed  grievous  sins.  Such 


262 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


Christians  renounce  all  the  commodities  of  life  ;  with 
heroic  contempt  they  rise  above  the  world ;  what  is  law¬ 
ful  seems  to  them  sinful  ;  justly  acquired  goods  are 
rejected,  whilst  all  visible  things  are  despised  in  order  to 
ascend  to  invisible  riches.  Tears  and  sighs  are  their 
comfort,  and  humiliations  their  happiness.  And  when 
others  are  weeping  on  account  of  their  really  sinful 
actions,  they  are  sorry  for  the  least  sinful  thought.  We 
conclude,  therefore,  that  such  Christians,  being  really 
good  and  innocent,  yet  reap  the  merits  of  severe  penance, 
because  they  continually  practise  the  most  sublime 
virtues.  We  may,  therefore, .  recognise  how  much  God 
rejoices  upon  the  just  suffering  and  humbling  themselves 
for  sins  they  never  committed,  since  He  rejoices  upon  a 
sinner  deeply  sorry  for  his  past  sins. 

V.  But,  though  our  Lord  said  :  There  shall  be  joy  in 
heaven  upon  one  sinner  that  doth  penance ,  the  same  Lord 
announces  through  His  prophet :  If  the  just ,  trusting  in  his 
justice ,  commit  iniquity ,  all  his  justices  shall  be  forgotten 
(Ezech.  xxxiii.  13).  Consider  the  mystery  of  God’s 
wisdom  and  goodness,  threatening  the  just  with  His 
wrath,  should  they  forsake  the  road  of  justice,  and  at  the 
same  time  inspiring  sinners  with  hope  of  forgiveness, 
provided  they  forsake  and  rise  from  their  sins,  and  do 
penance.  What  a  mystery  !  God  inspiring  the  just  with 
fear,  lest  their  justice  and  good  works  make  them  pre¬ 
sumptuous,  and  giving  hope  and  courage  to  sinners,  to 
prevent  them  from  despairing  on  account  of  their  sins ! 
Learn,  therefore,  you  good  Christians,  to  fear  the  justice 
of  God,  Who  may  suffer  you  to  fall,  and  you,  sinners, 
hope  in  the  mercy  of  God  helping  you  to  rise  from  your 
sins.  Though  oppressed  by  the  burden  of  their  wicked¬ 
ness,  the  sinners  are  awaited  by  Him,  Who  created  them 
in  justice,  to  rise  again.  The  arms  of  His  mercy  are 


THIRD  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  263 

stretched  out  to  receive  them  as  soon  as  they  return  to 
Him.  Yet,  only  a  sincere  penance  can  reconcile  us  to 
God,  and  this  penance,  the  qualities  of  which  must  be 
acknowledged,  consists  in.  the  deep  sorrow  for  sins  com¬ 
mitted,  and  the  firm  purpose  of  avoiding  them  in  the 
future.  However,  he  that  is  repentant  for  past  sins,  and 
is  again  committing  new  ones,  knows  nothing  about  real 
penance,  or  is  acting  as  if  he  knew  nothing.  What  does 
it  profit  you  to  be  sorry  for  sins  against  chastity,  if  at  the 
same  time  you  are  given  up  to  avarice  ?  What  advantage 
will  be  derived  from  tears  shed  about  anger,  if  the  fire  of 
envy  is  not  extinguished  in  your  heart  ? 

VI.  Our  penance  will  be  perfect  if,  besides  true  con- 
trition  for  past  sins  and  sincere  purpose  not  to  commit 
them  again,  we  also  abstain  from  lawful  things,  in  order 
to  satisfy  Divine  Justice  for  unlawful  actions.  It  is  meet 
and  just  to  renounce  some  pleasure,  when  the  great  com¬ 
mandments  were  transgressed.  Let  me  illustrate  this  by 
an  example  taken  from  Holy  Scripture.  It  was  forbidden 
to  covet  the  neighbour’s  wife  (Exod.  xx.  17),  but  the 
King  was  not  forbidden  to  impose  very  difficult  tasks  on 
his  soldiers,  neither  to  ask  for  water  by  the  fetching  of 
which  they  would  be  exposed  to  great  dangers.  But  all 
of  you  know  how  King  David,  yielding  to  his  passions, 
took  away  the  wife  of  one  of  his  subjects  ;  how  his 
sin  was  severely  punished,  and  how  he  made  amends  for 
it  by  severe  penance  and  bitter  tears.  A  long  time  after¬ 
wards  the  same  King,  fighting  against  his  enemies,  and 
suffering  terrible  thirst,  was  longing  for  the  living  waters 
of  the  cisterns  at  Bethlehem.  Some  fearless  soldiers  at 
once  went,  in  spite  of  extreme  dangers,  through  the 
ranks  of  the  enemy,  and  brought  him  the  longed-for  fresh 
water.  But  David,  reflecting  on  the  great  danger  to 
which  these  soldiers  exposed  themselves,  only  to  satisfy 


264 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


his  desire,  was  sorry,  and  at  once  poured  out  the  water 
upon  the  ground  before  the  Lord,  to  bring  Him  a  sacrifice, 
and  thus  to  expiate  by  this  generous  self-denial  the  burn¬ 
ing  desire  he  had  to  get  water.  You  see  how  this  repen¬ 
tant  and  converted  sinner  deprived  himself  of  the  water 
so  ardently  desired,  whilst  he  did  not  mind  before  that  to 
take  the  wife  of  another  man,  to  satisfy  his  lust.  David, 
therefore,  denied  to  himself  the  use  of  a  thing  allowed  by 
the  law,  because  he  remembered  the  sin  he  had  committed 
against  the  law  by  a  forbidden  act.  Our  penance  must 
be  of  the  same  kind,  if  we  wish  to  atone  for  our  sinful 
actions.  Consider  also  the  infinite  mercies  of  God,  Who, 
though  seeing  us  commit  sin,  bears  with  us  in  incompre¬ 
hensible  patience. 

VII.  It  is  true,  whpn  God  had  created  man,  He  pro¬ 
hibited  sin,  yet  since  man’s  misfortune  of  committing 
sin,  God’s  mercy  has  never  tired  in  offering  him  forgive¬ 
ness.  He  still  calls  us,  though  we  give  no  ear  to  His 
voice  ;  we  forsake  God,  and  He  does  not  forsake  us. 
This  is  expressed  by  Isaias  the  Prophet,  saying :  Thy 
eyes  shall  see  the  teacher ,  and  thy  ears  shall  hear  the  word  of  one 
admonishing  thee  behind  thy  back  (Isa.  xxx.  20,  21).  Man 
was  created  in  justice  and  instructed  by  his  Creator,  at 
Whose  countenance  he  gazed  as  long  as  he  remained  in 
the  state  of  innocence  and  accepted  His  commands.  But 
when  he  had  transgressed  these  commands,  he  turned,  so 
to  speak,  his  countenance  from  His  Creator.  Yet,  this 
despised  and  forsaken  good  God  did  not  cease  running 
after  him,  following  him,  and  continually  beseeching 
him  to  return.  And  this  is  God’s  conduct  towards  us  ; 
for  when  He  was  despised  by  us,  He  nevertheless  con¬ 
tinued  to  call  us.  We  offend  Him,  not  listening  to  His 
exhortations,  and  considering  His  commandments  too 
severe  to  be  obeyed ;  nevertheless,  He  invites  us  to 


THIRD  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  265 

return  to  Him.  His  Divine  commandments  call  us, 
whilst  His  invincible  patience  is  awaiting  us.  Beloved 
brethren,  consider  a  slave  who,  in  his  pride,  will  not 
listen  to  your  words,  who,  instead  of  obeying,  will  turn 
his  back  on  you ;  shall  not  his  impudence  be  most 
severely  punished  ?  We  easily  recognise  ourselves  in 
this  comparison,  since  by  our  repeated  sins  we  have 
turned  against  God,  our  Creator,  Who,  in  spite  of  them, 
still  continues  to  preserve  our  life.  We  have  proudly 
resisted  Him,  yet,  in  spite  of  our  contempt,  He  meekly 
calls  us,  and  is  not  only  satisfied  with  remitting  us  the 
punishment  deserved  by  our  sins,  but  offers  us,  as  a 
reward  for  our  return,  an  eternal  happiness  in  heaven. 
The  most  hardened  heart  ought  to  be  moved  by  such 
infinite  mercy.  Let  us  also  learn,  by  God’s  infinite 
patience  after  our  heinous  sins,  to  be  ashamed  of  our 
ingratitude,  which  in  justice  deserves  the  most  severe 
punishment. 

FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel  :  Luke  v.  1-11.  At  that  time  :  When  the  multi¬ 
tude  pressed  upon  Jesus  to  hear  the  Word  of  God,  He 
stood  by  the  Lake  of  Genesareth.  And  He  saw  two 
ships  standing  by  the  Lake ;  but  the  fishermen  were 
gone  out  of  them,  and  were  washing  their  nets.  And, 
going  up  into  one  of  the  ships  that  was  Simon’s,  He 
desired  him  to  draw  back  a  little  from  the  land.  And, 
sitting,  He  taught  the  multitudes  out  of  the  ship.  Now, 
when  He  had  ceased  to  speak,  He  said  to  Simon : 
Launch  out  into  the  deep,  and  let  down  your  nets  for 
a  draught.  And  Simon,  answering,  said  to  Him : 
Master,  we  have  laboured  all  the  night,  and  have  taken 
nothing ;  but  at  Thy  word  I  will  let  down  the  net. 


z66 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


And  when  they  had  done  this,  they  enclosed  a  very  great 
multitude  of  fishes,  and  their  net  broke.  And  they 
beckoned  to  their  partners  that  were  in  the  other  ship, 
that  they  should  come  and  help  them.  And  they  came 
and  filled  both  the  ships,  so  that  they  were  almost  sink¬ 
ing.  Which  when  Simon  Peter  saw,  he  fell  down  at 
Jesus’s  knees,  saying  :  Depart  from  me,  for  I  am  a  sin¬ 
ful  man,  O  Lord.  For  he  was  wholly  astonished,  and 
all  that  were  with  him,  at  the  draught  of  fishes  which 
they  had  taken.  And  so  were  also  James  and  John,  the 
sons  of  Zebedee,  who  were  Simon’s  partners.  And  Jesus 
saith  to  Simon:  Fear  not;  from  henceforth  thou  shalt 
catch  men.  And  having  brought  their  ships  to  land, 
leaving  all  things,  they  followed  Him. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AMBROSE,  BISHOP. 

Book  iv.,  Chap,  v.,  on  Luke. 

I.  Since  the  Lord  wrought  so  many  works  of  healing, 
we  are  not  astonished  to  see  that  neither  time  nor  place 
could  restrain  the  multitude  from  seeking  relief  and 
health.  Evening  had  come,  and  still  they  followed 
Him ;  He  went  down  to  the  lake,  and  still  they  pressed 
upon  Him,  and  therefore  He  entered  Peter’s  ship. 
This  is  the  ship  which,  according  to  the  expression  of 
St.  Matthew,  is  spiritually  buffeted  by  tempests  even  up 
to  this  time,  but  which  is  still,  according  to  St.  Luke, 
filled  with  fishes,  signifying  that  for  a  while  to  labour  is 
the  present  state  of  the  Church,  whilst  hereafter  it  shall 
be  to  rejoice ;  for  the  fishes  represent  those  who  swim  in 
the  troublesome  waters  of  this  human  life.  When  Jesus 
Christ  seems  to  sleep  in  this  ship,  and  afterwards  com¬ 
mands  the  winds  and  the  sea,  He  teaches  us  that  He  is 
sleeping  for  the  lukewarm,  and  watching  for  the  perfect. 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  267 

However,  our  Lord’s  sleep  must  be  considered  according 
to  the  meaning  attached  to  it  in  Holy  Scripture  :  I  sleep , 
but  My  heart  watcheth  (Cant.  v.  2).  Therefore  St.  Matthew, 
in  his  Gospel,  did  not  omit  to  mention  the  visible  signs 
given  by  our  Lord  Himself  to  prove  His  power  when 
calming  the  tempestuous  sea.  This  was  not  the  action 
of  human  power,  as  the  Jews  imagined  when  they  ex¬ 
claimed  :  What  manner  of  man  is  this,  for  the  winds  and  the 
sea  obey  Him  ?  (Matt.  viii.  27).  It  was  the  proof  of  the 
Divinity  of  Jesus  Christ,  revealing  to  men  the  mysteries 
of  His  grace,  whilst  commanding  the  waves  of  the  sea, 
calming  the  elements,  and  forcing  unfeeling  creatures  to 
obey  His  word.  Indeed,  when  we  see  that  at  His  word 
the  sea  is  calmed,  that  the  devil  is  forced  to  leave  those 
he  possessed,  both  these  miracles  prove  the  Almighty 
Power  of  the  Man-God,  Who  commands  material  ele¬ 
ments,  and  makes  known  His  power  over  the  super¬ 
natural  order  of  things.  There  is  a  specially  mysterious 
coincidence  in  the  fact  that  St.  Matthew  relates  the 
calming  of  the  tempest,  while  St.  Luke  describes  St. 
Peter’s  miraculous  draught  of  fishes.  Take  notice  that 
Peter’s  ship  was  not  driven  to  and  fro,  like  the  one  in 
which  was  Judas  ;  for  though  this  one  contained  also 
some  good  disciples  of  our  Lord,  yet,  on  account  of  the 
faithlessness  of  Judas,  she  could  not  safely  progress  .in 
her  course,  Peter’s  own  merits  could  not  prevent  the 
uneasiness  he  felt  on  account  of  one  of  the  disciples  ;  and 
thus  we  are  warned  to  remove,  as  far  as  possible,  the 
faithless  ones  from  our  society,  lest  we  expose  the  multi¬ 
tude  to  perish  through  one  whom  we  have  not  the 
courage  to  expel.  No  fear  for  the  ship  where  Wisdom  is 
steering,  where  no  false  teaching  is  known,  and  faith  is 
swelling  the  sails.  How  could  she  be  in  trouble  under 
the  steering  of  the  Lord  Himself,  the  Church’s  sure 


2  6S 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


foundation  ?  It  is  where  faith  is  weak  that  there  is  fear  ; 
but  there  is  safety  where  perfect  love  abides. 

II.  To  the  other  disciples  it  was  commanded  to  loose 
their  nets ;  but  to  Peter  alone  it  was  said  :  Launch  out  into 
the  deep — that  is,  into  the  depths  of  the  doctrine  of  faith, 
What,  indeed,  is  there  so  deep,  so  incomprehensible,  as 
to  gaze  upon  the  depth  of  Divine  Wisdom  revealed  to  this 
Apostle  to  recognise  the  Son  of  God,  and  to  take  up  the 
profession  of  His  Divine  generation  ?  This  is  a  thing 
which  the  human  mind  is  not  able  to  grasp,  but  which  is 
embraced  by  a  hearty  faith  ;  for  though  it  is  not  known 
to  me  how  He  was  born  of  the  Father,  yet  that  born. He 
was,  I  cannot  be  ignorant.  What  the  order  of  His 
Divine  generation  was,  I  know  not,  but  I  acknowledge 
God,  the  source  of  His  generation.  No  one  beheld  the 
begetting  of  the  Son  of  God  by  the  Father,  but  the 
Church  stood  by  to  hear  the  Father  testify  that  this  is 
His  beloved  Son  (Luke  iii.  22).  Whom  shall  we  believe, 
if  we  believe  not  God  ?  For  whatsoever  we  believe 
comes  either  by  sight  or  by  hearing ;  but  our  eyes 
oftentimes  deceive  us,  while  faith  cometh  by  hearing  (Rom. 
x.  17).  Shall  we  scrutinize  the  authority  of  him  that 
speaks  to  us  in  order  to  believe  his  testimony  ?  When 
we  are  made  sure  of  a  thing  by  honest  people,  we  believe 
their  words.  And  we  are  assured  by  God  Himself  of  this 
mystery  which  we  are  to  believe,  and  which  is  confirmed 
by  the  Son  of  God  Himself.  The  sun  was  darkened  at 
His  death ;  the  earth  was  quaking  and  shaking  in  its 
foundations ;  they  all  proclaim  the  same  truth.  In  the 
depth  of  this  mysterious  sea  the  Son  of  God  is  seen  by 
the  Church  under  the  guidance  of  Peter.  He  rises  full 
of  glory,  and  the  Holy  Ghost  is  pouring  out  all  His  gifts 
into  the  hearts  of  the  faithful. 

III.  As  to  the  nets,  which  by  order  of  our  Lord  were 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  269 

let  down  by  the  disciples  into  the  deep  sea,  we  under¬ 
stand  them  to  be  the  words  of  truth,  forming,  so  to 
speak,  the  tissue  of  the  evangelical  sermons.  These 
sermons,  like  the  material  nets,  have  some  depths  and 
corners,  by  which  men  caught  in  the  spiritual  nets  are 
prevented  from  slipping  out  and  being  lost  again  in  the 
deep.  It  is  not  without  a  special  reason  that  the  instru¬ 
ments  used  by  the  evangelical  labourers  are  compared  to 
nets ;  for  they  do  not  bring  death  to  the  fishes,  but 
spiritual  and  everlasting  life.  Souls  are  taken  out  of  the 
spiritual  darkness,  and  receive  light ;  they  are  delivered 
from  the  deep  abyss,  and  guided  up  to  heaven.  Another 
manner  of  fishing  is  spoken  of  in  the  Gospel,  when  our 
Lord  asked  Peter  to  cast  a  hook,  and  to  take  the  fish  • 
which  first  came  up  (Matt.  xvii.  23-26).  This  event 
suggests  an  important  lesson  ;  for  by  this  miracle  Chris¬ 
tians  are  admonished  to  be  subject  to  their  temporal 
rulers,  and  also  obedient  to  them.  The  Son  of  God  Him¬ 
self  teaches  this  truth  by  His  own  act ;  He  possessed 
nothing,  yet  He  paid  tribute  to  Caesar.  It  was  to  teach 
those  endowed  with  earthly  riches  the  obligation  to 
recognise  the  rights  of  the  Sovereign,  and  to  teach  others, 
the  slaves  of  the  perishable  things  of  this  world,  not  to 
think  themselves  above  the  princes  of  the  earth.  Our 
Lord  paid  this  tribute,  the  same  as  was  imposed  in  the 
old  law,  for  the  sum  was  twopence,  to  signify  the  great 
value  of  the  redemption  of  man,  who  has  both  a  spiritual 
and  a  corporeal  nature.  There  is  also  another  mystery 
in  the  fact  that  the  money  for  the  tribute  was  found  in 
the  mouth  of  the  fish  ;  for  the  mouth  gives  testimony  to 
our  justice  and  confesses  our  faith,  the  source  of  our 
salvation.  The  Apostle  says  :  With  the  mouth  confession 
is  made  unto  salvation  (Rom.  x.  10).  This  first  fish  caught 
by  St.  Peter  may  also  represent  St.  Stephen,  the  first 


270 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


martyr,  who  had  in  his  mouth  the  tribute  paid  by  the 
Redeemer.  Jesus  Christ,  giving  Himself  up  for  our 
redemption,  is  our  tribute  ;  we  may  therefore  say  that 
St.  Stephen,  confessing  Jesus  amidst  his  torments,  bore, 
so  to  speak,  the  treasure  of  our  redemption  on  his  lips. 

IV.  Now  consider  the  deep  humility  of  St.  Peter, 
saying  to  his  Divine  Teacher :  Master ,  we  have  laboured  all 
the  night ,  and  have  taken  nothing  ;  but  at  Thy  word  I  will  let 
down  the  net.  The  Apostle  seems  to  say :  1  O  Lord,  I 
recognise  that  my  labours  would  be  useless,  since  I 
worked  all  the  night  in  the  darkness,  hadst  Thou  not 
come  to  dispel  my  darkness  and  help  me.  I  do  not  see 
anybody  yet  coming  into  my  boat,  in  which  there  is 
truth.  Thou  hast  manifested  Thyself  to  the  Gentiles, 
and  the  wise  men  came  from  the  East ;  yet  I  have  not 
caught  any  one  in  my  net.  I  have  uselessly  laboured 
all  the  day,  and  am  waiting  for  Thy  command,  that  at 
Thy  word  I  let  down  my  net  not  uselessly/  Oh,  how 
vain  and  useless  is  presumption  and  self-confidence,  and 
how  powerful  and  fruitful  the  humility  of  those  who  at 
the  simple  word  of  the  Redeemer  filled  their  nets  with 
fishes  after  their  previous  useless  work  !  By  this  we  are 
given  to  understand  that  the  miraculous  draught  of  human 
creatures  made  by  the  evangelical  labourers,  was  not  the 
result  of  human  eloquence,  but  the  work  of  their  divine 
vocation.  Nations  were  converted  through  the  faith 
being  preached  to  them,  and  not  through  being  con¬ 
vinced  by  the  logical  arguments  of  human  wisdom.  And 
what  is  the  meaning  of  the  other  ships  manned  by 
Peter’s  companions  and  asked  to  give  help,  but  the  land 
of  Judea,  the  country  of  James  and  John  ?  The  Prophet,, 
in  his  songs,  tells  us  that  Judea  was  made  His  sanctuary 
(Ps.  cxiii.  2).  We  learn  thereby  that  these  two  disciples, 
leaving  their  own  ship  to  enter  that  of  Peter,  left  the 


FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  *  271 

Synagogue  and  joined  the  Church,  and  that  Jews  and 
Gentiles,  figured  by  the  two  ships  filled  with  fishes,  will 
recognise  Jesus  as  their  Saviour,  in  Whose  Name  all 
knees  shall  bow  in  heaven  and  on  earth. 

V.  Yet,  considering  this  enormous  quantity  of  fishes,  I 
am  seized  with  fear,  lest  the  ships  be  submerged.  But 
my  fear  disappears,  when  I  remember  the  words  of  the 
Apostle:  There  must  be  also  heresies;  that  they ,  who  are 
reproved ,  may  be  made  manifest  among  you  (1  Cor.  xi.  19). 
We  may  also  see  in  the  ship  coming  near  to  that  of 
St.  Peter  a  figure  of  those  Churches  which  received 
their  beginning  from  the  first.  Should  the  astonishment 
of  St.  Peter  at  the  multitude  of  fishes  caught  in  his  net 
seem  to  indicate  his  uneasiness  about  the  preservation  of 
the  great  number  of  the  faithful  entrusted  to  his  care,  we 
have  no  motive  to  fear  that  he  will  lack  the  means  of 
preserving  them,  as  long  as  they  remain  in  his  ship,  since 
he  received  the  gift  of  drawing  into  it  even  those  who 
were  without.  Nevertheless,  the  Apostle  is  far  from 
attributing  to  his  own  efforts  the  success  of  taking  souls 
into  his  net ;  for  he  gives  this  credit  to  his  Saviour,  Whose 
power  he  acknowledges,  falling  down  at  His  knees  and 
saying :  Depart  from  me,  for  I  am  a  sinful  man ,  O  Lord . 
St.  Peter  is  seized  with  astonishment  at  the  favours  he 
received;  for  the  more  worthy  he  was,  the  more  unworthy 
he  considered  himself.  Follow  his  example,  and  say : 
Depart  from  me,  for  I  am  a  'sinful  man ,  0  Lord ,  and  the 
same  answer  will  be  given  to  you.  Fear  not  to  confess 
your  sins  before  the  merciful  God,  Who  is  ready  to  pardon 
you.  F or  our  sake  He  deprived  Himself  of  everything ;  let 
us  for  His  love  generously  give  to  Him  what  is  our  own. 
God,  immensely  rich  and  generous,  cannot  deprive  us  of 
nor  envy  us  our  possessions,  especially  when  considering 
that,  in  the  excess  of  His  goodness,  He  granted  to  men 
the  power  of  reconciling  us  to  Him. 


2  72 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


FIFTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Matt.  v.  20-24.  At  that  time:  Jesus  said  to 
His  disciples:  Unless  your  justice  exceed  that  of  the 
Scribes  and  Pharisees,  you  shall  not  enter  into  the 
kingdom  of  heaven.  You  have  heard  that  it  was  said  to 
them  of  old :  Thou  shalt  not  kill.  And  whosoever  shall 
kill  shall  be  in  danger  of  the  judgment.  But  I  say  to 
you,  that  whosoever  is  angry  with  his  brother,  shall  be  in 
danger  of  the  judgment.  And  whosoever  shall  say  to  his 
brother,  Raca,  shall  be  in  danger  of  the  council.  And 
whosoever  shall  say,  Thou  fool,  shall  be  in  danger  of  hell 
fire.  Therefore,  if  thou  bring  thy  gift  to  the  altar,  and 
there  shalt  remember  that  thy  brother  hath  anything 
against  thee,  leave  there  thy  gift  before  the  altar,  and 
go  first  to  be  reconciled  to  thy  brother,  and  then  come 
and  offer  thy  gift. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE.  BISHOP. 

On  the  Lord’s  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  Book  i.,  Chap.  ix. 

I.  The  justice  of  the  Pharisees  was  not  to  kill ,  whereas 
the  justice  of  those  who  shall  enter  the  kingdom  of 
heaven  consists  in  not  to  be  angry  with  his  brother .  The 
least,  therefore,  is,  Thou  shalt  not  kill ,  and  whosoever 
shall  break  this  commandment  shall  be  called  the  least  in  the 
kingdom  of  heaven ;  but  whosoever  shall  fulfil  it,  and  not 
kill ,  is  not  yet  great  and  worthy  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven, 
though  he  has  risen  a  step.  But  he  will  have  advanced 
farther,  if  he  be  not  angry  with  his  brother  without  a 
cause,  and,  doing  this,  he  will  be  farther  off  from  man¬ 
slaughter.  Wherefore,  He  Who  teaches  us  not  to  be 
angry  without  a  cause,  does  not  destroy  the  law,  Thou 
shalt  not  kill ,  but  rather  fulfils  and  increases  it,  making  us 


FIFTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 


273 


not  only  to  be  free  of  the  sin  of  outward  killing,  but  also 
innocent  of  anger  within. 

II.  There  are  divers  degrees  or  steps  in  the  sins  re¬ 
ferred  to.  And  first,  a  man  is  angry,  and  keeps  that  feel¬ 
ing  unexpressed  in  his  heart.  But  now,  if  that  angry 
motion  calls  forth  an  exclamation  of  anger,  not  having 
any  definite  meaning,  yet  giving  evidence  of  the  trouble 
of  him  who  is  provoked,  this  is  certainly  more  than  anger 
restrained  by  silence.  Next,  this  outburst  of  indignation 
may  contain  open  and  direct  reviling  of  him  who  had 
roused  it.  Who  can  doubt  but  that  this  is  something 
more  than  an  empty  exclamation  of  anger  ?  Hence,  in 
the  first  there  is  one  thing  only,  that  is,  anger  ;  in  the 
second,  two  things,  both  anger  and  a  word  expressing 
that  anger;  in  the  third,  three  things,  both  anger  and 
words  expressing  it,  and  in  these  words  a  distinct  censure 
and  reviling..  Now  look  at  the  three  degrees  of  liability 
and  guilt,  open  respectively  to  the  judgment,  to  the 
council  and  to  hell  fire.  In  the  judgment  there  is  still 
place  for  the  defence  ;  in  the  council,  however,  though 
this  also  is  in  a  sense  a  judgment,  yet  we  may  suppose 
distinct  from  the  judgment  proper,  because  the  council 
pronounces  sentence,  not  as  the  result  of  a  trial  whereat 
the  accused  is  present,  but  as  the  result  of  a  consultation 
among  the  judges,  to  find  out  to  what  punishment  he  is 
to  be  sentenced,  being  already  found  guilty.  When  we 
get  to  hell  fire,  there  remains  no  longer  any  doubt  about 
sentence,  as  in  the  council.  In  hell  fire  both  the  con¬ 
demnation  and  the  punishment  of  him  that  is  condemned 
are  alike  certain.  Thus  are  seen  certain  degrees  in  the 
sins  and  the  liability  to  punishment.  But  who  can  tell 
in  what  manner  they  are  invisibly  shown  in  the  punish¬ 
ment  of  souls  ?  We  may  ask,  what  is  the  difference 
between  the  justice  of  the  Pharisees  and  that  greater 

18 


274 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


justice  procuring  admittance  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven? 
For  it  is  a  more  serious  crime  to  kill  than  to  inflict  re¬ 
proach  by  means  of  words.  In  the  one  case  killing  ex¬ 
poses  one  to  the  judgment,  and  in  the  other  anger ,  the 
least  of  these  three  sins,  also  exposes  one  to  the  judgment. 
The  answer  will  be  that  in  the  former  case  the  question, 
of  murder  is  discussed  among  men,  whereas  in  the  latter 
all  sins  and  vices  are  disposed  of  by  the  Divine  judgment, 
and  the  final  fate  of  the  sentenced  sinners  is  hell  fire. 
However,  let  us  not  lose  sight  of  this  fact  that,  if  the 
angry  brother  is  punished  by  God  with  hell  fire,  as  well 
as  the  other  who  murdered  his  brother,  there  must  be,  and 
certainly  there  is,  a  difference  in  the  inflicted  punishment. 

Ill,  Therefore ,  added  our  Lord,  if  thou  bring  thy  gift  to 
the  altar ,  and  there  shalt  remember  that  thy  brother  hath  any¬ 
thing  against  thee ,  leave  there  thy  gift  before  the  altar ,  and  go 
first  to  be  reconciled  to  thy  brother ,  and  then  come  and  offer  thy 
gift .  From  this  it  is  clear  that  anger  against  one’s 
.  brother  is  forbidden  by  our  Lord.  For  the  following  sen¬ 
tence  is  connected  by  such  a  conjunction,  as  to  confirm 
the  preceding  one.  Our  Lord  did  not  say  :  But  if  thou 
bring  thy  gift ;  He  said  :  Therefore ,  if  thou  bring  thy  gift 
to  the  altar.  For,  if  it  is  not  lawful  to  be  angry  with 
one’s  brother  without  a  cause,  or  to  say  Raca ,  or  T hou  fool, 
it  is  still  less  lawful  to  keep  in  one’s  mind  indignant 
motions  often  turned  into  hatred.  To  this  belongs  what 
is  said  in  another  part  of  Holy  Scripture  :  Let  not  the  sun 
go  down  upon  your  anger  (Eph.  iv.  26).  Therefore,  when 
we  are  about  to  bring  our  gift  to  the  altar,  and  remember 
that  our  brother  has  anything  against  us,  we  are  com¬ 
manded  to  leave  our  gift  before  the  altar,  and  to  go  and 
be  reconciled  to  our  brother,  then  to  come  and  offer  the 
gift.  If  this  is  to  be  understood  literally,  we  might  sup¬ 
pose  that  such  a  thing  ought  to  be  done  if  the  brother  is 


FIFTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 


275 


present ;  for  it  cannot  be  delayed  too  long,  since  we  are 
commanded  to  leave  the  gift  before  the  altar.  Should, 
therefore,  such  a  thing  come  to  your  mind  respecting  one 
who  is  absent,  or  even,  as  it  may  happen,  beyond  the  sea, 
it  would  be  absurd  to  imagine  that  your  gift  is  to  be  left 
before  the  altar,  until  you  have  journeyed  over  both  lands 
and  seas.  Therefore,  we  must  have  recourse  to  an  in¬ 
ternal  and  spiritual  interpretation,  then  what  is  said  will 
be  understood  without  difficulty. 

IV.  There  ought  also  to  be  on  our  part  purity  of  inten¬ 
tion  when  we  present  our  offering ;  for  our  heart  is  the 
altar,  the  inner  temple  of  God,  according  to  the  words  of 
St.  Paul :  For  the  temple  of  God  is  holy ,  which  ( temple )  you 
are  (i  Cor.  iii.  17).  Again  :  That  Christ  may  dwell  by  faith 
in  your  hearts  (Eph.  iii.  17),  If  it  occur  to  your  mind  that 
a  brother  has  aught  against  you — that  is,  if  you  have 
injured  him,  for  then  he  has  something  against  you ; 
(whereas  you  have  something  against  him,  if  he  has 
injured  you,  and  in  that  case  you  will  not  ask  pardon  of 
one  who  has  done  you  an  injury,  but  merely  forgive  him 
as  you  hope  to  be  forgiven  by  God  what  you  have  com¬ 
mitted  against  Him).  Now,  if  your  brother  has  anything 
against  you,  at  once  proceed  to  reconciliation,  not  only 
with  your  bodily  feet,  but  with  the  emotions  of  your 
mind,  prostrating  yourself  with  humble  disposition  before 
your  brother,  to  whom  you  have  hastened  with  affection¬ 
ate  thought.  And  should  he  be  present  when  you  offer, 
you  will  be  able  to  soften  him  and  to  recall  him  to  good¬ 
will  by  asking  pardon.  And  God,  witnessing  your  good 
dispositions,  will  forgive  you  and  accept  your  present  on 
your  return  to  Him.  But  who  acts  in  this  way,  so  that 
he  is  neither  angry  with  his  brother  without  a  cause,  nor 
says  Raca  without  a  cause,  nor  calls  him  a  fool  without  a 
cause — all  sins  most  proudly  committed  ?  Or  has  he  per¬ 
il  8 — 2 


276 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


chance  fallen  into  any  of  these  sins,  who  adopts  the  only 
remedy  and  asks  pardon  with  suppliant  and  contrite 
minds  ?  Who,  but  the  man  who  is  not  puffed  up  with  the 
spirit  of  empty  boasting.  Therefore,  Blessed  are  the  poor 
in  spirit,  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven  (Matt.  v.  3.) 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel  :  Mark  viii.  1-9.  At  that  time  :  When  there  was 
a  great  multitude  with  Jesus,  and  they  had  nothing  to  eat, 
calling  His  disciples  together,  He  said  to  them  :  I  have 
compassion  on  the  multitude,  for  behold  they  have  now 
been  with  Me  three  days,  and  have  nothing  to  eat ;  and  if 
I  send  them  away  fasting  to  their  own  home,  they  will 
faint  in  the  way,  for  some  of  them  came  from  afar  off. 
And  His  disciples  answered  Him  :  From  whence  can 
anyone  fill  them  here  with  bread  in  the  wilderness  ? 
And  He  asked  them  :  How  many  loaves  have  ye  ?  Who 
said :  Seven.  And  He  commanded  the  people  to  sit 
down  on  the  ground ;  and  taking  the  seven  loaves,  giving 
thanks,  He  broke,  and  gave  to  His  disciples  for  to  set 
before  them,  and  they  set  them  before  the  people.  And 
they  had  a  few  little  fishes ;  and  He  blessed  them,  and 
commanded  them  to  be  set  before  them.  And  they  did 
eat  and  were  filled ;  and  they  took  up  that  which  was 
left  of  the  fragments,  seven  baskets.  And  they  that  had 
eaten  were  about  four  thousand  ;  and  He  sent  them  away. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AMBROSE,  BISHOP. 

On  Luke,  Book  vi.,  Chap.  ix. 

I.  After  that  woman,  who  is  a  type  of  Christ’s  Church, 
was  healed  of  an  issue  of  blood  (Luke  viii.  43) ;  after  ou 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 


277 


Lord  had  sent  His  disciples  to  preach  the  kingdom  of 
God  (ix.  2),  food  was  given  to  men  by  His  heavenly 
tenderness.  However,  consider  who  they  are  to  whom 
He  gave  that  food.  He  gave  it  not  to  such  as  live  at 
ease,  not  to  men  in  cities  nor  in  synagogues,  not  to  those 
who  sit  in  places  of  worldly  dignities  ;  but  to  men  seeking 
Him  in  a  desert  place.  Those  who  do  not  despise  His 
word,  but  hunger  after  it,  are  received  by  Christ;  He 
speaks  to  them  not  of  earthly  things,  but  of  the  kingdom 
of  God.  And  if  any  bear  the  sores  of  carnal  passion, 
He  willingly  heals  them.  Then  it  happened  that,  after 
healing  those  who  were  in  need  of  healing,  He  fed  their 
hunger  with  spiritual  meat.  Thus  we  are  given  to  under¬ 
stand  that  no  man  takes  Christ’s  food,  unless  he  be  first 
healed ;  and  they  that  are  invited  to  the  supper,  are  first 
cured  by  that  invitation.  Should  they  be  lame,  they 
receive  the  power  to  walk,  that  they  may  be  able  to 
come.  If  blind,  and  not  able  to  find  the  door  of  the 
house  of  the  Lord,  His  light  will  be  given  to  them.  In 
the  mysteries,  or  Sacraments,  presented  by  our  Lord,  order 
is  preserved.  The  sinful  soul  is  first  purified  by  the 
remission  of  sins,  and  afterwards  filled  at  the  table  of  the 
Lord.  Yet,' that  multitude  following  Him,  was  of  such  as 
being  unable  to  feed  on  those  strong  meats,  or  to  pasture 
their  starving  spirits  upon  the  Body  and  Blood  of  Christ, 
as  is  done  by  those  of  a  stronger  faith,  according  to 
St.  Paul :  I  gave  you  milk  to  drink ,  and  not  meat ;  for  you 
were  not  able  as  yet,  but  neither  Meed  are  you  now  able 
(1  Cor.  iii.  2).  The  five  loaves  are,  so  to  speak,  your 
milk ;  the  stronger  meat  will  be  the  Body  of  Christ  ;  the 
more  generous  cup,  the  Blood  of  the  Lord. 

II.  Jesus  Christ  does  not  at  first  give  to  those,  who 
follow  Him,  His  Body  and  Blood  to  appease  their 
spiritual  hunger  and  thirst.  In  order  to  prepare  them  by 


278  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

degrees  for  the  adorable  Sacrament,  He  first  satiates  them 
with  five  loaves,  then  by  another  miracle  with  the  seven 
loaves  which  He  multiplied,  finally  giving  Himself  to  us 
as  our  food.  By  this  we  ought  to  be  intimately  united 
with  our  Saviour,  since  He  measures  the  food  according 
to  our  strength,  so  that  the  weak  shall  not  be  oppressed  by 
a  heavy  nourishment,  and  the  strong  shall  find  in  it  pre¬ 
servation  and  support.  He  that  is  weak ,  let  him  eat  herbs 
(Rom.  xiv.  2)  ;  whereas  he  that  has  already  left  this 
state  of  weakness  will  enjoy  in  the  five  loaves  and  the  two 
fishes  a  stronger  nourishment.  But  should  he  desire 
something  more  for  his  sustenance,  and  yet  hesitate  to 
ask  for  it,  then,  let  him  forsake  everything  fastening  him 
to  this  earth,  and  come  to  listen  with  more  attention  to 
the  word  of  God.  As  soon  as  he  begins  to  hear  and  to 
understand  it,  he  will  feel  real  hunger  for  it.  Thus  the 
Apostles  began  to  live  on  this  word  of  life,  for  which  they 
felt  an  unsatiable  hunger.  And  though  this  Divine 
word,  stimulating  their  hunger,  was  not  yet  understood 
by  them,  our  Lord  knew  of  their  desire.  He  also  was 
aware  of  their  not  longing  after  corporeal  nourishment, 
so  eagerly  desired  by  the  children  of  the  world,  but  after 
spiritual  food,  which  He  gave  them  to  taste  in  His 
admirable  teaching.  Our  Redeemer  did  not  wish  to  send 
these  people  away  fasting  to  their  own  home ,  lest  they  would 
faint  in  the  way .  Divine  goodness  acts  with  us  in  the 
same  manner.  Our  care  and  zeal  are  required  to  seek 
and  to  know,  whilst  strength  to  find  it  is  imparted  to  us. 
O  dear  Jesus  !  grant  that  none  of  us,  neither  I  nor  these 
present,  should  be  deprived  of  these  gifts  and  be  sent 
away  by  Thee.  Give  us  this  food,  by  which  we  are 
strengthened  and  preserved  from  the  weakness  over¬ 
coming  us,  when  we  are  without  this  Bread  of  life.  I  will 
not  ask  Thee,  O  my  Saviour,  why  Thou  dost  not  dismiss 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  .  279 

me  without  food,  since  I  am  told  by  Thee  that  for  want 
of  this  heavenly  nourishment  I  should  faint  in  the  way. 
Indeed,  I  should  be  starved  in  this  mortal  life,  before  I 
could  come  to  Thee,  my  sole  object  and  end.  Without 
Thee  I  should  never  be  able,  during  this  earthly  life,  to 
understand  that  Thou  art  the  Son  of  the  Eternal  Father, 
•  that  Thou  hast  come  from  heaven,  and  art  the  same 
Redeemer  Who  ascended  into  the  highest  heaven.  Thou 
givest  strength  to  my  weakness,  which,  without  Thy 
supernatural  light,  would  have  seen  in  Thee  only  the  Son 
born  of  a  Virgin,  without  taking  any  notice  of  Thy  Divine 
Person  that  assumed  our  humanity. 

III.  The  Apostles  did  not  understand  that  the  bread 
which,  by  order  of  our  Lord,  they  were  to  distribute 
among  the  multitude,  was  not  the  common  bread  sold 
among  us.  But  the  Lord,  Who  came  to  redeem  us  by 
His  precious  Blood,  and  from  Whom  we  receive  our 
daily  bread,  knew  this  well.  For  the  disciples  had  not 
yet  received  the  power  to  distribute  the  Divine  food  by 
which  souls  are  sanctified.  They  could  only  give  the 
material  bread,  then  in  their  hands,  and  by  which  the 
bodies  were  strengthened.  The  Redeemer  has  com¬ 
passion  on  our  misery,  and  is  justly  anxious  lest  our 
strength  should  fail  us  in  our  earthly  journey.  And 
should  we  be  overcome  by  our  weakness,  let  us  accuse 
ourselves  and  not  Him,  Who  can  easily  justify  Himself 
before  His  accusers.  Indeed,  what  will  be  our  answer, 
when  He  reminds  us  of  the  powerful  assistance  and  help 
placed  at  our  disposal  amidst  the  dangers  and  struggles 
of  life  ?  Is  He  not  our  Father  giving  us  life  and  strength 
with  His  supernatural  nourishment  ?  Should  we  be 
deprived  of  this  spiritual  and  strength-giving  food,  then 
not  Heaven’s  assistance  was  failing  us,  but  our  own  will 
to  make  use  of  it  in  our  necessities.  For  God,  Who  lets 


28a 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


the  rain  fall  upon  the  just  and  the  unjust,  takes  also  care 
of  the  food  given  to  the  wicked  and  to  the  good. 

We  read  in  Holy  Scripture  how  the  prophet  Elias, 
being  in  the  desert,  and  quite  exhausted,  received  food 
from  an  angel  of  the  Lord,  and  how  in  the  strength  of 
that  food  he  walked  forty  days  and  forty  nights  (3  Kings 
xix.  5-9)-  Now,  what  will  be  your  strength  and  power 
after  eating  the  spiritual  food  prepared  for  you  by  Jesus 
Christ  Himself  ?  I  go  even  further,  and,  basing  my 
words  upon  examples  offered  by  the  Scriptures,  I  say 
that,  with  the  help  of  this  food,  you  will  walk  forty  years 
through  the  deserts  of  Egypt — that  is,  you  will  leave 
them  to  enter  the  promised  Land,  flowing  with  milk  and 
honey,  a  land,  with  which  that  once  promised  by  God  to 
our  forefathers  cannot  be  compared.  You  should  be 
longing  after  this  blessed  Land,  which  will  be  possessed 
by  the  meek.  The  barren  land  now  under  your  feet 
ought  not  to  be  the  object  of  your  desires  or  ambitions. 
Strongly  and  steadfastly  endeavour  to  possess  that  Land 
gladdened  by  the  presence  of  Jesus — that  Land,  the  happy 
dwelling  of  the  saints,  and  the  eternal  kingdom  of  God’s 
glory  and  majesty,  Who  will  also  be  your  own  eternal 
happiness. 

IV.  Our  Lord,  taking  the  seven  loaves ,  giving  thanks , 
broke  ^  and  gave  to  His  disciples  for  to  set  before  them .  He 
does  not  act  otherwise  in  regard  to  all  men  ;  for  He 
refuses  His  gifts  to  nobody  ;  He  grants  them  to  all.  Yet, 
should  you  not  stretch  out  your  hands  to  receive  the 
bread  distributed  by  His  disciples,  you  will  be  weak  and 
faint  in  the  way,  and  have  no  reason  to  complain  that  the 
Lord  had  not  compassion  on  you.  Remark  also  that  the 
gifts  of  our  Redeemer  were  handed  to  those  who  had 
remained  with  Him  in  the  desert,  and  persevered  not 
only  the  first  day,  but  also  the  second  and  the  third.  He 


SIXTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  281 

said  so  Himself:  I  have  compassion  on  the  multitude ,  for 
behold  they  have  now  been  with  Me  three  days}  and  have  nothing 
to  eat .  Admire,  therefore,  God’s  infinite  goodness  towards 
men.  What  condescension  !  He  sees  their  weakness  ’ 
and  finds  means  to  provide  for  all  their  wants.  Think¬ 
ing  of  the  great  care  God  takes  of  us,  we  ought  to  feel 
ourselves  obliged  to  follow  His  guidance  and  to  offer  to 
Him  our  submission,  even  when  for  our  spiritual  ad¬ 
vantage  He  punishes  us.  And  should  He  chastise  you 
now,  you  will  not  find  irksome  the  yoke  by  which 
you  are  burdened,  lest,  by  shaking  it  off,  you  will  feel 
weak  and  exhausted  later  on.  What  answer  will  you 
then  give  to  the  Almighty  now  so  infinitely  generous  to 
you  ?  What  justifiable  excuse  will  you  allege  by  which 
to  explain  your  carelessness,  since  you  neglect  the  salu¬ 
tary  nourishment  given  by  God  for  strengthening  you  on 
the  long  journey  of  this  life  ?  You  will  not  be  able  to 
reprove  our  Lord  for  taking  from  you  the  spiritual  food 
that  is  offered  by  Him  to  all  men.  Neither  will  you  be 
able  to  pretend  that  it  was  not  His  wish  to  make  you 
good,  and  to  guide  you  on  the  road  to  perfection.  For 
He  places  before  you  both  good  and  evil,  so  that  if  you 
prefer  virtue  to  sin,  your  choice  will  be  free  without  con¬ 
straint.  There  is,  indeed,  a  great  difference ’between  the 
one  acting  by  necessity,  and  the  other  freely  resolving 
to  practise  virtue  and  good  works ;  for  only  freedom  of 
action  deserves  either  reward  or  punishment.  Moreover, 
consider  that  all  of  us  must  one  day  appear  before  the 
judgment-seat  of  our  Redeemer ;  and  should,  then,  the 
building  of  our  life  be  consumed  by  flames  and  changed 
into  ashes,  we  shall  not  have  cause  to  complain  or  to 
excuse  ourselves.  On  that  great  day  God  will  say  to  us 
what  He  announced  to  the  Jews  by  His  Prophet :  0  My 
people ,  what  have  I  done  to  thee ,  or  in  what  have  I  molested 


282 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


thee  ?  Answer  thou  Me  (Mich.  vi.  3).  Then  our  Saviour 
will  say  to  the  one  that  fainted  in  the  way :  Why  wast 
thou  weak  and  feeble  on  the  road  ?  Did  I  not  break  the 
bread  so  necessary  to  thee  ?  Did  I  not  bless  it  and 
command  My  disciples  to  give  it  to  thee?  Why  didst 
thou  refuse  that  bread  ?  Yet,  how  many  will  there  be 
among  those  here  present,  now  hearing  and  understand¬ 
ing  my  words  (though  the  wprds  I  now  utter  are  also  the 
words  of  the  Redeemer,  and  are  bread,  since  no  one  can 
pronounce  the  name  of  Jesus,  without  the  help  of  the 
Holy  Ghost) — how  many,  I  ask,  will  there  be  found  faint¬ 
ing  on  the  way  ?  How  many  will  leave  the  right  road, 
and  walk  in  the  paths  of  infidels  ?  Ah,  would  to  God 
that  one  only  might  suffer  such  misfortune,  and  that  the 
greater  part  of  Christians  be  not  included  in  that  number  ! 
But  Jesus  is  not  the  cause  of  this  perdition  ;  for  He  gives 
the  necessary  and  strengthening  bread  to  all  who  follow 
Him,  and  is  as  generous  to  every  single  one,  as  to  the 
five  thousand  and  the  seven  thousand  in  the  desert. 

SEVENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Matt.  vii.  15-21.  At  that  time:  Jesus  said  to 
His  disciples  :  Beware  of  false  prpphets,  who  come  to 
you  in  the  clothing  of  sheep,  but  inwardly  they  are 
ravening  wolves.  By  their  fruits  you  shall  know  them. 
Do  men  gather  grapes  of  thorns,  or  figs  of  thistles  ? 
Even  so  every  good  tree  bringeth  forth  good  fruit,  and 
the  evil  tree  bringeth  forth  evil  fruit.  A  good  tree 
cannot  bring  forth  evil  fruit,  neither  can  an  evil  tree 
bring  forth  good  fruit.  Every  tree  that  bringeth  not 
forth  good  fruit  shall  be  cut  down,  and  shall  be  cast  into 
the  fire.  Wherefore  by  their  fruits  you  shall  know  them. 
Not  every  one  that  saith  to  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter 


SEVENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 


283 


into  the  kingdom  of  heaven  ;  but  he  that  doth  the  will  of 
My  Father  who  is  in  heaven,  he  shall  enter  into  the 
kingdom  of  heaven. 


HOMILY  BY  ST.  HILARY,  BISHOP. 

Comment,  on  Matt.,  Chap.  vi. 

I.  We  are  here  warned  by  the  Author  of  all  truth  to 
value  the  worth  of  soft  words  and  seeming  meekness  by 
the  fruits  brought  forth  in  their  works  by  those  who  show 
such  things.  He  teaches  us,  in  ordgr  to  find  out  what  a 
man  is,  to  look  not  at  his  professions,  but  at  his  deeds, 
since  there  are  many  in  whom  sheep’s  clothing  is  but  a 
mask  hiding  their  wolfish  ravening.  Do  men  gather  grapes 
of  thorns ,  or  figs  of  thistles  ?  Even  so  every  good  tree  bringeth 
forth  good  fruity  and  the  evil  tree  bringeth  forth  evil  fruit . 
Thus  it  is  with  men  ;  evil  men  do  not  bring  forth  good 
fruits,  and  we  are  to  know  them  hereby.  Words  alone 
do  not  win  the  kingdom  of  heaven ;  and  those  who  say 
to  Christ,  Lord ,  Lord ,  cannot  expect  to  enter  into  that 
kingdom.  Indeed,  what  merit  is  there  in  these  words, 
Lord ,  Lord?  Would  He  not  be  Lord  all  the  same, 
whether  or  not  we  call  Him  so  ?  Do  we  imagine  that 
we  have  already  attained  perfection  and  holiness  by 
calling  the  name  of  the  Lord,  since  the  true  way  of 
entering  into  the  kingdom  of  God  is  to  do  the  will  of  our 
Father  who  is  in  heaven  ?  Many  will  say  to  Me  in  that 
day,  Lord ,  Lord ,  have  not  we  prophesied  in  Thy  name,  cast 
out  devils  in  Thy  name,  and  done  many  miracles  in  Thy 
name  ?  (vii.  22).  Yet  the  Lord  rebukes  the  deceit  of  false 
prophets,  and  the  feigning  of  hypocrites,  who  take  glory 
to  themselves  on  account  of  the  power  of  their  words, 
their  prophesying  in  doctrine,  their  casting  out  of  devils 
and  similar  mighty  works.  . 


284 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


II.  Those  hypocrites  flatter  themselves  that  they  will 
enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  as  though  their  preach¬ 
ing  to  nations,  and  the  power  of  the  holy  office  they  are 
endowed  with,  were  the  work  of  their  own,  and  not  the 
almighty  working  of  God  helping  them.  Meanwhile  it 
is  an  undoubted  truth  that  the  constant  reading  of 
Scripture  gives  to  the  ministers  of  Christ  the  true  know¬ 
ledge  of  doctrine,  and  that  their  power  of  driving  out 
devils  is  derived  from  the  Divine  power  of  the  Name  of 
Jesus.  Therefore,  if  we  wish  to  win  the  blessed  eternity 
in  heaven,  we  must  4°  something  of  our  own  ;  we  must 
be  willing  to  do  right,  to  turn  away  from  sin,  to  obey 
with  our  whole  heart  the  commandments  laid  on  us  from 
heaven,  and  thus  to  become  the  friends  of  God.  It 
should  be  our  duty  to  do  the  will  of  God  rather  than  to 
boast  of  God’s  power  in  us ;  for  God  forgets  and 
thrusts  away  such  as  are  already  by  their  wicked  works 
estranged  from  His  friendship. 

III.  And  our  Lord  adds  these  words :  Everyone  therefore 
that  heareth  these  My  words ,  and  doth  them ,  shall  he  likened  to 
a  wise  man  that  built  his  house  upon  a  rock .  The  meaning  of 
these  words  is  intimately  connected  with  the  preceding 
discourse.  For,  after  showing  us  the  conceited  and 
useless  merit  of  the  false  prophets  and  their  cunning 
hypocrisy,  He  places  before  our  eyes  a  man  animated  by 
a  perfect  and  truthful  belief  in  God,  thus  making  known 
to  us  the  difference  between  this  one  and  the  false 
prophets.  The  believing  man,  spoken  of  by  Jesus,  is 
placed  upon  an  immovable  foundation.  It  is  in  vain  that 
the  most  violent  storms  rage  against  him,  for  the  strong 
Rock,  upon  which  the  building  of  the  wise  man  is  founded, 
is  no  other  but  Jesus  Christ  Himself,  Who  by  His 
invincible  power  preserves  every  building  erected  upon 
Him  from  the  fury  of  the  winds,  from  the  violent  showers 


SEVENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  285 

of  rain,  and  from  the  devastating  inundations.  By  these 
torrents  of  rain,  mentioned  by  our  Lord,  are  meant  the 
tempting  attractions  of  lust,  penetrating  our  soul  by  little 
and  little,  and  rendering  our  faith  weak  and  faint.  After 
the  first  attack  made  against  us  by  the  love  of  lust,  the 
raging  storms  of  the  passions  take  possession  of  our  heart, 
and  the  violent  winds  storming  from  all  sides — that  is,  the 
whole  fury  of  the  devils  are  ready  to  overthrow  and  even 
to  destroy  us.  But  the  wise  man,  who  built  his  house 
upon  the  strongest  foundation,  cannot  be  removed  from 
his  place ;  whereas  the  foolish  man,  who  despised  this 
precaution,  and  built  his  house  upon  the  sand,  cannot  be 
sure  of  the  solidity  of  his  building ;  for  the  falling  rain, 
and  the  floods,  and  the  blowing  winds  will  beat  upon  that 
house ,  and  it  will  fall ,  and  great  will  be  the  fall  thereof 
IV.  Our  Redeemer,  giving  us  the  parable  of  the  wise 
man  building  his  house  upon  a  rock,  and  of  the  foolish 
man  building  upon  the  sand,  teaches  us  that  true  merits 
consist  in  the  obeying  His  commandments,  and  in  a 
strong  and  lively  faith  in  all  He  has  done  and  promised. 
And  the  Gospel  adds  these  beautiful  words:  And  it  came 
to  pass  when  Jesus  had  fully  ended  these  words ,  the  people  were 
in  admiration  at  His  doctrine  ;  for  He  was  teaching  them  as 
One  having  power ,  and  not  as  their  Scribes  and  Pharisees . 

EIGHTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Luke  xvi.  1-9.  At  that  time:  Jesus  spoke  to 
His  disciples  this  parable :  There  was  a  certain  rich  man 
who  had  a  steward  ;  and  the  same  was  accused  unto  him 
that  he  had  wasted  his  goods.  And  he  called  him,  and 
said  to  him:  How  is  it  that  I  hear  this  of  thee  ?  Give  an 
account  of  thy  stewardship;  for  now  thou  canst  be 
steward  no  longer.  And  the  steward  said  within  himself : 


286 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


What  shall  I  do,  because  my  lord  taketh  away  from  me 
the  stewardship  ?  To  dig  I  am  not  able ;  to  beg  I  am 
ashamed.  I  know  what  I  will  do,  that  when  I  shall  be 
removed  from  the  stewardship  they  may  receive  me  into 
their  houses.  Therefore  calling  together  every  one  of  his 
lord’s  debtors,  he  said  to  the  first :  How  much  dost  thou 
owe  my  lord  ?  But  he  said  :  An  hundred  barrels  of  oil. 
And  he  said  to  him :  Take  thy  bill  and  sit  down  quickly, 
and  write  fifty.  Then  he  said  to  another :  And  how 
much  dost  thou  owe  ?  Who  said  :  An  hundred  quarters 
of  wheat.  He  said  to  him :  Take  thy  bill,  and  write 
eighty.  And  the  lord  commended  the  unjust  steward, 
forasmuch  as  he  had  done  wisely  ;  for  the  children  of  this 
world  are  wiser  in  their  generation  than  the  children  of 
light.  And  I  say  to  you  :  Make  unto  you  friends  of  the 
mammon  of  iniquity,  that  when  you  shall  fail,  they  may 
receive  you  into  everlasting  dwellings. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  JEROME,  PRIEST. 

Letter  151  to  Algesia. 

I.  The  unjust  steward,  spoken  of  by  Jesus  in  this 
parable,  is  commended  by  his  lord,  because  he  had  done 
wisely  though  wickedly.  And  this  lord,  though  himself 
defrauded,  could  not  but  praise  the  shrewdness  of  his 
dishonest  servant,  because  he  had  cheated  him  with  profit 
to  himself.  Now,  how  much  more  will  our  Master  Jesus 
Christ,  Who  cannot  be  defrauded  by  us,  and  Who  is  Him¬ 
self  ready  to  forgive,  praise  us  His  disciples,  if  we  deal 
mercifully  with  those  who  are  to  believe  in  Him  ?  And 
after  the  parable  the  Lord  said  :  Make  unto  you  friends  of 
the  mammon  of  iniquity .  This  word  mammon  is  a  Syriac, 
not  a  Hebrew  word,  signifying  illgotten  riches.  If,  then, 
even  illgotten  riches  can  be  so  used  by  such  as  possess 


EIGHTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  287 

them'  as  to  profit  by  them,  how  much  more  can  they  who, 
like  the  Apostles,  are  dispensers  of  the  mysteries  of  God 
(1  Cor.  iv.  1),  the  true  and  blameless  riches — how  much 
more  can  they  profit  themselves,  even  to  be  received  into 
everlasting  dwellings ,  by  the  right  use  of  them  ? 

II.  And  that  we  may  be  brought  to  understand  this 
lesson,  our  Lord  added  :  He  that  is  faithful  in  that  which  is 
least — that  is  to  say,  in  temporal  things — is  faithful  also  in 
that  which  is  greater — that  is,  in  spiritual  things.  And  he 
that  is  unjust  in  that  which  is  little — that  is,  who  is  not 
giving  to  his  needy  brother  help  of  those  things  which 
are  needful  for  the  body  and  which  God  has  created  for 
all  men— such  a  one  is  unjust  also  in  that  which  is  greater  ; 
that  is,  he  will  deal  out  spiritual  things  unfairly :  this  to 
one,  and  that  to  another,  and  not  according  to  their 
spiritual  needs.  //,  then ,  says  our  Lord,  you  have  not  been 
faithful  in  the  unjust  mammon — that  is,  in  the  use  of  worldly 
riches  which  pass  away — who  will  trust  you  with  that  which 
is  the  true ,  the  spiritual  riches  of  the  word  of  God  ? 

III.  The  Son  of  God  condemns  the  avaricious,  and 
teaches  us  that  those,  who  love  money  and  the  riches  of 
this  world,  cannot  at  the  same  time  love  God ;  that  His 
disciples,  therefore,  who  wish  to  love  Him  truly  and 
really,  are  to  despise  riches.  The  Scribes  and  Pharisees, 
being  avaricious,  had  only  contempt  for  the  words  of  the 
Redeemer.  They  understood  that  the  parable  was 
meant  for  them,  yet  they  were  ashamed  to  acknowledge 
this  fact.  Since  these  carnal  men  delighted  in  the 
present  and  visible  goods,  their  great  and  only  hope, 
we  are  not  astonished  to  see  that  they  preferred  them  to 
the  spiritual  and  future  riches,  considered  by  them  as 
most  uncertain. 

IV.  And  why  was  this  evangelical  steward  called  an 
unjust  steward ,  since  the  old  Law,  the  steward  of  which 


288 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


he  was,  came  from  God  and  was  holy  ?  Because  this 
man  was  faithless  in  the  administration  of  the  service  of 
God.  The  Jew  adored  God  the  Father,  and  at  the  same 
time  persecuted  God  the  Son  ;  he  recognised  an  Almighty 
God,  and  denied  the  Holy  Ghost.  The  Apostle  Paul, 
forsaking  the  Law  and  serving  Jesus,  was  wiser  than  the 
Jews,  who  at  one  time  were  the  children  of  light .  For, 
since  in  the  course  of  time  the  Jews  kept  only  the  Law, 
they  lost  Jesus  Christ,  the  eternal  Light  and  the  only 
Way  to  salvation. 

V.  And  this  will  be  the  real  profit  gained  from  this 
parable :  that  we  should  endeavour  to  make  unto  our¬ 
selves  friends  by  means  of  the  riches,  the  instruments  of 
iniquity.  However,  among  the  poor,  to  whom  we  dis¬ 
tribute  them,  we  must  especially  consider  those  who  will 
be  able  to  take  us,  after  this  life,  to  the  eternal  dwellings. 
There,  instead  of  the  perishable  goods  we  gave  to  the 
poor,  we  shall  receive  riches  of  an  infinite  value.  For 
the  temporal  things,  we  give  now,  we  shall  be  made  par¬ 
takers  of  everlasting  blessings  and  happiness.  So  let  us 
sow  in  blessings,  that  we  may  reap  in  blessings,  remem¬ 
bering  the  words  of  the  Apostle  :  He  who  someth  sparingly , 
shall  also  reap  sparingly  (2  Cor.  ix.  6). 

NINTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Luke  xix.  41-47.  At  that  time:  When  Jesus 
drew  near  to  Jerusalem,  seeing  the  city,  He  wept  over  it, 
saying :  If  thou  also  hadst  known,  and  that  in  this  thy 
day,  the  things  that  are  to  thy  peace  ;  but  now  they  are 
hidden  from  thy  eyes.  For  the  days  shall  come  upon 
thee,  and  thy  enemies  shall  cast  a  trench  about  thee,  and 
compass  thee  round,  and  straiten  thee  on  every  side,  and 
beat  thee  flat  to  the  ground,  and  thy  children  who  are  in 


NINTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  289 

thee  ;  and  they  shall  not  leave  in  thee  a  stone  upon  a 
stone,  because  thou  hast  not  known  the  time  of  thy  visita¬ 
tion.  And  entering  into  the  temple,  He  began  to  cast 
out  them  that  sold  therein  and  them  that  bought,  saying 
to  them  :  It  is  written  :  My  house  is  the  house  of  prayer; 
but  you  have  made  it  a  den  of  thieves.  And  He  was 
teaching  daily  in  the  temple. 


HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
BASILICA  OF  ST.  JOHN,  CALLED  THE  CONSTANTINE. 

Thirty-ninth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  No  one,  that  has  read  the  history  of  the  destruction 
of  Jerusalem  by  the  Roman  princes  Vespasian  and  Titus, 
can  be  ignorant  of  the  fact  that  the  Lord  spoke  of  this 
destruction,  when  He  wept  over  the  ruin  of  that  city. 
These  princes  were  pointed  at  when  He  said  :  For  the 
days  shall  come  upon  thee  ;  and  thy  enemies  shall  cast  a  trench 
about  thee ,  and  compass  thee  round ,  and  straiten  thee  on  every 
side ,  and  beat  thee  fiat  to  the  ground ,  and  thy  children  who  are 
in  thee .  And  the  truth  of  what  follows,  they  shall  not  leave 
in  thee  a  stone  upon  a  stonef  is  even  now  fulfilled  by  the 
change  of  site  of  the  city,  which  has  been  rebuilt  round 
about  the  place  without  the  gates,  where  the  Lord  was 
crucified,  whilst  the  ancient  city,  as  I  am  told,  has  been 
destroyed  down  to  the  very  foundations.  And  a  little 
after  the  preceding  words  we  find  what  the  sin  of  Jeru¬ 
salem  was,  which  brought  upon  her  the  punishment  of 
this  destruction  :  Because  thou  hast  not  known  the  time  of  thy 
visitation .  The  Creator  of  all  things  was  pleased  to  visit 
her  through  the  mystery  of  the  Incarnation,  but  she 
remembered  not  to  fear  or  to  love  Him.  Hence,  also,  the 
prophet  Jeremias,  rebuking  man’s  hardness  of  heart, 
calls  the  birds  of  the  air  to  testify  against  it,  and  says  • 

19 


2go 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


The  kite  in  the  air  hath  known  her  time ,  the  turtle ,  and  the 
swallow ,  and  the  stork  have  observed  the  time  of  their  coming  ; 
but  My  people  have  not  known  the  judgment  of  the  Lord 
(Jer.  viii.  7).  The  Saviour  wept  over  the  ruin  of  the 
faithless  city,  while  she  herself  knew  not  that  it  was 
coming.  If  thou  also  hadst  known ,  He  said,  even  thou  ;  and 
we  may  understand  Him  to  have  meant,  ‘Thou  wouldst 
have  wept,  instead  of  making  merry,  as  thou  now  dost, 
not  knowing  what  is  hanging  over  thee/  And  he  added, 
at  least  in  this  thy  day ,  the  things  that  are  to  thy  peace . 
While  she  was  giving  herself  up  to  carnal  pleasures,  and 
never  looked  forward  to  the  coming  sorrows,  she  had 
still  for  a  day  in  her  power  the  things  which  might  have 
brought  peace  to  her.  But  now  they  are  hidden  from  thy 
eyes ,  says  the  Lord.  For,  had  the  misfortunes  threaten¬ 
ing  her  been  known,  she  would  not  have  founded  her 
hope  and  happiness  upon  that  prosperous  stat£  by  which 
she  was  deceived.  And  for  this  reason  were  foretold  to 
her  by  the  Redeemer  all  the  evils  she  had  later  on  to  bear 
from  the  Roman  army. 

II.  And  as  we  see  Jerusalem  destroyed,  and  the  temple, 
once  the  abode  of  thieves  before  our  Lord  had  cast  them 
out,  now  a  mass  of  ruins,  do  we  not  perceive  in  these 
ruins  an  image  of  the  spiritual  destruction  of  our  own 
moral  conduct,  destruction  which  we  have  every  reason 
to  be  afraid  of  ?  Seeing  the  city ,  He  wept  over  it.  Indeed, 
our  Lord  once  wept  over  Jerusalem  and  foretold  her  ruin; 
and  He  does  the  same  every  day,  since  He  and  His 
ministers  and  elect  behold  how  some  souls  forsake  the 
road  to  holiness  and  give  themselves  up  to  corrupt  ways. 
He  laments  the  blindness  of  these  people,  who  ignore  His 
lamentations  and  confirm  the  words  of  Solomon :  Who 
are  glad  when  they  have  done  evil  and  rejoice  in  the  most  wicked 
things  (Prov.  ii.  14).  For  should  these  wicked  people 


NINTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  291 

recognise  their  impending  damnation,  they  would  shed 
tears  with  the  good  Christians,  who  bewail  their  destruc¬ 
tion.  In  all  truth  we  may  apply  to  such  souls  running 
to  their  perdition  these  words  of  Jesus  :  If  thou  also  hadst 
known,  and  that  in  this  thy  day,  the  things  that  are  to  thy  peace; 
but  now  they  are  hidden  from  thy  eyes .  These  perverse  souls, 
thinking  only  of  the  present  time,  and  looking  at  this 
time,  which  quickly  passes  away,  as  their  happiest  days, 
seem  to  find  true  peace  in  earthly  pleasures.  Amidst 
the  perishable  things  of  this  world  by  which  they  are 
dazzled — honours,  puffing  them  up,  carnal  lust  by  which 
they  are  carried  away  with  delight — such  souls  are  in 
peace,  and  will  not  be  disturbed  by  anything  on^he  peace¬ 
ful  and  bright  day  that  destroys  in  their  memory  the  fear 
of  the  terrible  punishments  awaiting  them.  But  another, 
a  different  day  will  throw  such  souls  into  the  eternal 
damnation,  when  they  will  see  themselves  in  great  afflic¬ 
tion,  whilst  the  just  will  be  overwhelmed  with  joy  and 
comfort;  for  on  that  terrible  day  the  sweetness  tasted  now 
will  be  .  changed  into  bitterness  and  wrath.  Then  the 
reprobate  souls  will  turn  their  anger  and  fury  against 
themselves ;  they  will  upbraid  themselves  for  not  being 
terrified  by  the  terrible  condemnation  threatened  by  God, 
and  for  having  shut  their  eyes  so  as  not  to  foresee  the 
punishments  heaped  up  and  reserved  for  their  unhappy 
future.  Therefore  it  is  said  :  But  now  they  are  hidden 
from  thy  eyes .  Giving  themselves  entirely  up  to  earthly 
things  and  rushing  after  the  pleasures  of  this  life,  these 
souls  cannot  see  the  misery  following  their  footsteps.  And 
should  the  consideration  of  the  future  inspire  such  souls 
with  fear,  amidst  the  worldly  pleasures  they  dismiss  such  a 
terrible  sight  from  their  mind,  and  blindfoldly  rush  amid 
frivolous  amusements  towards  the  everlasting  flames. 
The  wise  man  was  right  when  he  said  :  In  the  day  of  good 

19—2 


292 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


things  be  not  unmindful  of  evils  ;  and  in  the  day  of  evils  be  not 
unmindful  of  good  things  (Ecclus.  xi.  27).  And  St.  Paul 
says  :  And  they  that  rejoice  be  as  if  they  rejoiced  not  (1  Cor. 
vii.  30).  Though  it  be  lawful  to  rejoice  in  this  world, 
the  fear  of  the  coming  judgment  should  not  forsake  us ; 
then  our  soul,  at  the  sight  of  the  Lord’s  wrath,  would  be 
penetrated  with  terror,  be  moderate  in  the  pleasures  of 
life,  and  would  courageously  look  forward  to  the  begin¬ 
ning  of  the  great  day.  Blessed  is  the  man ,  says  Solomon, 
that  is  always  fearful ;  but  he  that  is  hardened  in  mind  shall 
fall  into  evil  (Prov.  xxviii.  14).  Meanwhile  the  wrath  of 
God  will  be  the  more  terrible  on  that  fearful  day,  the  less 
we  now  fear  to  irritate  Him  by  our  sins. 

III.  Our  Lord  continues  the  history  of  the  evils 
befalling  Jerusalem,  saying:  For  the  days  shall  come  upon 
thee ,  and  thy  enemies  shall  cast  a  trench  about  thee ,  and  com - 
pass  thee  round7  and  straiten  thee  on  every  side.  Who  are 
these  enemies  but  the  devils,  our  sworn  foes,  laying 
snares  to  our  soul  which,  by  their  allurements,  is  kept 
up  in  the  love  of  the  pleasures  of  this  life,  but  will  be 
besieged  by  them  at  the  moment  when  it  has  to  leave 
the  body  ?  Indeed,  we  may  say  that  at  the  moment  of 
our  death  the  devil  will  make  to  himself  a  trench  of  our 
sins,  and  compass  us  round,  and  thus  drag  our  soul  down 
into  hell.  In  that  unhappy  moment  the  sinful  soul  will 
‘  be  straitened  on  every  side  by  this  cruel  enemy,  without 
any  hope  of  escaping,  since  the  time  for  doing  penance 
or  good  works,  neglected  during  life,  will  now  be  passed. 
Truly,  it  may  be  said  of  that  poor  soul,  that  it  is  attacked 
by  the  enemy  on  every  side,  for  not  only  the  wicked 
actions,  but  also  the  bad  thoughts  and  desires,  are 
brought  up  against  it.  In  that  day  all  their  thoughts  shall 
perish  (Ps.  cxlv.  4).  And  these  thoughts  may  be  com¬ 
pared  to  stones,  for  our  Lord  said  :  A  nd  they  shall  not  leave 


NINTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 


293 


in  thee  a  stone  upon  a  stone .  The  perverse  mind  and  the 
wicked  thoughts  form,  so  to  speak,  stones  upon  stones, 
and  the  more  so,  since  that  poor  soul  made  such  bad  use 
of  its  former  freedom. 

IV.  And  what  was  the  cause  of  that  great  evil  ? 
Listen  to  our  Lord,  saying  :  Because  thou  hast  not  known 
the  time  of  thy  visitation .  Almighty  God  visits  the  soul 
of  the  sinner  in  different  ways :  now  He  announces 
by  His  ministers  the  great  and  Divine  truths  ;  now  He 
chastises  that  soul  with  the  scourges  of  His  justice  ; 
again  He  meets  that  soul  in  a  wonderful  manner  with 
His  richest  blessings.  Acting  thus,  and  making  use  of 
different  means,  God  endeavours  to  convince  that  soul  of 
the  eternal  truths  so  long  unknown  to  it.  When  the 
word  of  God  is  not  powerful  enough  to  convert  that 
soul ;  when  the  severity  of  His  punishments  cannot 
humble  it,  nor  conquer  its  hardness;  when  all  these 
means  have  been  useless,  then  the  infinitely  merciful 
God  sometimes  pours  out  His  blessings  with  a  generous 
hand,  that  the  ingratitude  of  the  sinful  soul  might  perhaps 
put  it  to  shame.  But  should  this  soul  wilfully  refuse  to 
recognise  the  time  of  visitation,  then  God  will  give  it 
over  to  its  enemies,  with  whom  it  must  suffer  the  pains 
of  damnation.  Let  us,  therefore,  make  good  use  of  the 
advice  given  by  our  Lord :  When  thou  goest  with  thy 
adversary  to  the  prince ,  whilst  thou  art  in  the  way  endeavour 
to  he  delivered  from  him ;  lest  perhaps  he  draw  thee  to  the 
judge ,  and  the  judge  deliver  thee  to  the  exacter ,  and  the  exacter 
cast  thee  into  prison  (Luke  xii.  58).  This  adversary,  spoken 
of  here-,  is  the  word  of  God,  by  which  our  passions  are 
continually  opposed  during  life.  If  the  sinner  humbly 
submits  to  the  commands  of  this  adversary,  and  faithfully 
obeys  them,  he  shall  be  delivered  from  his  persecutions. 
Whereas  if  he  does  not  endeavour  to  be  delivered  in  this 


294 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


manner,  he  will  be  drawn  to  the  judge,  and  by  him 
delivered  to  the  officer  of  justice.  The  word  of  God, 
now  despised  by  the  sinner,  will  witness  against  him 
before  the  judgment-seat  of  the  Almighty.  He  will  be 
delivered  by  his  Judge  to  the  officer  of  His  wrath — that 
is,  the  devil — by  whom  the  poor  sinner  will  be  tortured 
with  so  much  greater  fury,  the  easier  he  had  yielded 
during  life  to  all  vicious  temptations.  When  it  is  said 
that  the  sinful  soul  will  be  cast  into  prison  by  the  officer 
of  justice,  this  means  that  it  will  be  kept  in  hell  until  the 
day  of  the  last  judgment,  when  the  bodies  of  the  damned 
united  with  their  souls,  will  be  cast  into  the  everlasting 
flames,  there  to  suffer  with  the  infernal  spirits. 

V.  Our  Lord,  after  ending  the  description  of  the 
destruction  of  the  unhappy  city,  which  is  applied  to  the 
perdition  of  a  sinful  soul,  entering  into  the  temple ,  He  began 
to  cast  out  them  that  sold  therein ,  and  them  that  bought .  This 
temple  is  also  an  image  of  a  Christian  soul,  for  our  con¬ 
science  is  the  temple  and  house  of  God.  Yet,  when  the 
human  mind  is  filled  with  sinful  thoughts  against  the 
neighbour,  it  becomes  like  a  den  of  thieves  and  murderers  ; 
for  such  a  soul  is  armed  with  murderous  designs  against 
simple  and  innocent  Christians,  and  discharges  its  arrows 
for  their  destruction.  Thus  our  soul,  deprived  of  inno¬ 
cence  and  simplicity  of  justice,  instead  of  being  a  house 
of  prayer  and  meditation,  becomes  a  den  of  thieves,  as  it 
is  to  others  a  cause  of  scandal  and  perdition.  According 
to  the  Gospel,  He  was  teaching  daily  in  the  temple .  This 
certainly  means  that  He  is  still  continuing  to  teach — 
that  is,  that  He  is  teaching  daily  in  the  temple ,  enlightening 
the  souls  of  the  faithful,  and  showing  them  how  to  avoid 
sin.  However,  we  ought  to  know  that  we  shall  be 
powerfully  instructed  in  the  truth,  only  when  the  future 
evils  we  ought  to  be  afraid  of  are  continually  placed 


TENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  295 

before  our  eyes,  and  that  we  endeavour  to  avoid  them, 
never  losing  sight  of  these  words  of  wisdom :  In  all  thy 
works  remember  the  last  endy  and  thou  shalt  never  sin  (Ecclus. 
vii.  40)..  So  let  us,  then,  every  day  consider  these  words 
Jesus  addressed  to  us  :  If  thou  hadst  known ,  and  that  in 
this  thy  day ,  the  things  that  are  to  thy  peace  ;  but  now  they  are 
hidden  from  thy  eyes.  And  since  that  severe  Judge  still 
patiently  bears  with  us,  and  does  not  stretch  out  His 
arm  to  strike  us  ;  since  the  day  of  His  wrath  seems  to 
be  far  off,  let  us  think  of  the  great  calamities  following 
that  day,  and  let  us  endeavour  to  avoid  them  by  being 
sorry  for  our  sins.  Let  us  despise  the  pleasures  of  the 
present  life,  and  let  us  never  be  dazzled  by  its  sinful 
amusements  ;  then  we  shall  not  be  dragged  into  the  deep 
abyss  now  hidden  by  them  from  our  eyes. 


TENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Luke  xviii.  g-14.  At  that  time:  Jesus  spoke 
this  parable  to  some  who  trusted  in  themselves  as  just, 
and  despised  others.  Two  men  went  up  into  the  temple 
to  pray ;  the  one  was  a  Pharisee,  and  the  other  a  Publican. 
The  Pharisee,  standing,  prayed  thus  with  himself :  O 
God,  I  give  Thee  thanks  that  I  am  not  as  the  rest  of 
men,  extortioners,  unjust,  adulterers,  as  also  is  this 
Publican.  I  fast  twice  in  the  week :  I  give  tithes  of  all 
that  I  possess.  And  the  Publican  standing  afar  off  would 
not  so  much  as  lift  up  his  eyes  towards  heaven ;  but 
struck  his  breast,  saying :  O  God,  be  merciful  to  me  a 
sinner.  I  say  to  you,  this  man  went  down  into  his  house 
justified  rather  than  the  other,  because  everyone  that 
exalteth  himself  shall  be  humbled ,  and  he  that  humbleth 
himself  shall  be  exalted. 


296 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

One  Hundred  and  Fifteenth  Homily  on  the  Words  of 

the  Lord. 

I.  The  proud  Pharisee,  boasting  of  his  virtues,  might 
at  least  have  said :  4 1  am  not  as  many  men  are.’  But 
what  is  the  meaning  of  the  vest  of  men  ?  All  other  men,  but 
himself.  Indeed,  to  say  c  I  am  just,’  does  it  not  mpan 
that  all  others  are  sinners  ?  I  am  not  as  the  rest  of  men , 
extortioners ,  unjust ,  adulterers .  And,  lo,  the  presence  of  the 
Publican  gives  him  an  occasion  of  greater  pride :  As  also 
this  Publican .  He  was  alone,  according  to  his  proud 
thoughts,  and  the  Publican  was  of  the  rest  of  men.  My 
own  justice  makes  the  difference  between  me  and  the 
wicked,  such  as  he  is.  I  fast  twice  in  the  week ;  I  give 
tithes  of  all  that  I  possess .  Now  it  would  be  in  vain  to 
look  in  his  prayer  for  anything  he  went  to  the  temple  to 
ask  for ;  you  will  find  nothing.  He  went  up  to  pray ; 
but  his  prayer  was  not  a  request  for  anything  from  God, 
it  was  a  glorification  of  himself.  It  was  but  little  not  to 
pray  to  God ;  but  what  do  you  think  of  his  praising 
himself,  and  even  despising  his  neighbour  who  did  pray  ? 
And  the  Publican  standing  afar  off  was  yet  praying  near  to 
God.  Conscious  of  his  own  self  he  kept  at  a  distance, 
while  his  piety  drew  him  near  to  God.  Though  the 
Publican  stood  afar  off,  the  Lord  was  at  hand  to  hear 
him.  For  the  Lord  is  high  and  looketh  on  the  low ,  and 
the  high ,  as  was  this  Pharisee,  He  knoweth  afar  off 
(Ps.  cxxxvii.  6).  The  proud,  indeed,  God  knows  afar  off, 
but  He  does  not  pardon  them.  Consider  still  more  the 
humility  of  the  Publican.  It  was  not  only  that  he  stood 
afar  off,  but  he  would  not  so  much  as  lift  up  his  eyes  to 
heaven .  He  looked  not,  that  he  might  be  looked  upon. 


TENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 


297 


He  dared  not  to  look,  for  self-knowledge  kept  him  down, 
but  hope  raised  him  up.  Consider  again  how  he  struck  his 
breast .  He  punished  himself ;  therefore  God  had  com¬ 
passion  on  his  confession  of  guilt.  He  struck  his  breast , 
saying  :  0  God  be  merciful  to  me  a  sinner.  Behold  him  that 
is  praying.  And  what  are  you  wondering  at  ?  The  sinner 
remembers,  and  God  forgets  ! 

II.  After  seeing  the  difference  between  the  Pharisee 
and  the  Publican,  let  us  now  examine  how  they  are 
judged  by  God  Himself.  The  first  praises  himself, 
thinking  himself  better  than  the  rest  of  men ;  the  other, 
in  his  humility,  accuses  himself  of  his  sins.  And  what  is 
the  Judge’s  sentence  ?  Amen,  I  say  to  you:  this  man  went 
down  to  his  house  justified  rather  than  the  other ,  the  Pharisee. 
O  Lord,  I  ask  Thee  for  the  cause  of  this  difference  ;  why 
did  the  Publican  and  not  the  Pharisee  go  down  to  his 
house  justified?  Thy  answer  will  be:  Because  everyone  that 
exalteth  himself  shall  be  humbled,  and  he  that  humbleth  himself 
shall  be  exalted.  Have  you  heard  the  sentence  ?  Then 
take  care  lest  your  pride  be  the  cause  of  your  condemna¬ 
tion. 

III.  Those  who  rely  on  their  own  power  and  make  use 
of  the  language  of  infidels,  let  them  consider  that,  when 
saying :  e  God  gave  me  my  nature,  but  I  made  myself 
just,’  they  are  worse  than  this  Pharisee.  For,  after  all, 
this  Pharisee,  though  praising  himself, was  grateful  to  God, 
since  he  added :  0  God,  I  give  Thee  thanks  that  I  am  not  as 
the  rest  of  men ,  He  is  blamed,  not  for  giving  thanks  to 
God,  but  because  by  his  words,  boasting  of  not  being  as 
the  rest  of  men ,  he  expressed  the  pride  of  his  heart.  Indeed, 
he  seemed  to  say  in  as  many  words,  that  nothing  could 
be  added  to  his  merits,  and  that  he  was  asking  for 
nothing.  I  am  not  as  the  rest  of  men,  extortioners,  unjust , 
adulterers.  Does  he  not  seem  to  say  that  he  alone  was 


293  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

just,  that  he  was  in  need  of  nothing  from  God,  since  in 
his  conceit  he  was  already  overwhelmed  with  merits  and 
virtues  ?  Therefore,  boasting  in  this  way  he  imagines 
himself  not  to  be  in  need  of  God’s  help,  and  gives  the  lie 
to  the  Truth,  saying:  The  life  of  man  upon  earth  is  a 
warfare  (Job  vii.  i).  O  proud  Pharisee,  thou  seemest  to 
say  to  thyself  that  it  would  be  useless  to  ask  God  to 
forgive  thy  sins,  for  thou  thinkest  thyself  just!  Now 
that  this  man  is  justly  condemned  for  thanking  God  in  a 
proud  manner,  what  shall  we  think  of  those  who  wickedly 
attack  the  grace  of  God  ? 

IV.  After  the  justification  of  the  Publican  and  the 
condemnation  of  the  Pharisee,  children  are  presented,  and 
our  Lord  is  asked  to  receive  and  even  to  touch  them. 
Did  it  not  become  Jesus  Christ,  the  great  Physician,  to 
touch  them  so  as  to  cure  them  ?  Do  not  object  and  say 
that  these  children  were  not  afflicted  with  any  corporal 
disease ;  for  my  answer  will  be,  that  these  children  were 
in  need  of  a  Saviour,  and  that  they  were  received  by  the 
Saviour  who  had  said  :  The  Son  of  Man  is  come  to  seek  and 
save  that  which  was  lost  (Luke  xix.  io).  But  how  were 
they  lost,  and  in  what  consisted  their  sins,  since  they 
were  innocent  children  ?  What  was  their  sin  ?  Listen 
to  the  Apostle  saying  :  By  one  man  sin  entered  into  this  worlds 
and  by  sin  death ,  and  so  death  passed  upon  all  men>  in  whom  all 
have  sinned  (Rom.  v.  12).  Let,  then,  the  children  come; 
let  them  come  and  hear  the  Lord :  Suffer  children  to  come 
to  Me .  Let  them  come  to  the  heavenly  Physician,  that 
He  may  touch  them ;  let  them  come  to  the  Saviour  and 
be  saved  by  Him.  They  have  not  sinned  ;  yet  they  are 
like  the  branches  of  a  tree  the  roots  of  which  are  infected 
with  disease.  May  the  Lord  bless  the  little  ones  and  the 
big  ones,  and  touch  them  both  to  cure  them.  We 
beseech  you,  who  are  grown  up,  to  take  care  of  the  little 


ELEVENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 


299 


ones ;  to  speak  for  those  who  are  still  mute ;  to  pray  for 
those  who  have  but  tears.  Consider  that,  at  an  age  when 
work  is  your  duty,  you  must  be  the  protectors  of  the  little 
ones,  and  defend  their  cause.  We  were  lost  like  them, 
so  let  us  be  united  with  them  in  Jesus  Christ.  They  are 
less  guilty  than  we  are,  but  the  grace  of  Jesus  is  given  to 
all.  The  children  have  but  the  sin  of  their  origin — that  is, 
the  original  sin  ;  why  then  should  those,  who  to  this  first 
sin  have  added  many  other  sins,  place  obstacles  to  the 
salvation  of  the  little  ones  ?  Is  it  not  true  that  the  more 
we  advance  in  years  the  more  we  increase  in  wickedness  ? 
However,  the  grace  of  God  blots  out  both  the  sin  brought 
with  us  into  this  world  and  all  sin  added  to  it ;  for 
where  sin  abounded ,  grace  did  more  abound  (Rom.  v.  20). 


ELEVENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Mark  vii.  31-37.  At  that  time:  Jesus,  going 
out  of  the  coast  of  Tyre,  He  came  by  Sidon  to  the  Sea  of 
Galilee,  through  the  midst  of  the  coast  of  Decapolis. 
And  they  bring  to  Him  one  deaf  and  dumb,  and  they 
besought  Him  that  He  would  lay  His  hand  upon  him. 
And,  taking  him  from  the  multitude  apart,  He  put  His 
fingers  into  his  ears,  and  spitting,  He  touched  his  tongue; 
and  looking  up  to  heaven,  He  groaned,  and  said  to  him, 
Ephpheta — that  is,  Be  thou  opened.  And  immediately 
his  ears  were  opened,  and  the  string  of  his  tongue  was 
loosed,  and  he  spoke  right.  And  He  charged  them  that 
they  should  tell  no  man  ;  but  the  more  He  charged  them, 
so  much  the  more  did  they  publish  it.  And  so  much  the 
more  did  they  wonder,  saying  :  He  hath  done  all  things 
well ;  He  hath  made  both  the  deaf  to  hear  and  the  dumb 
to  speak. 


300 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY. 

On  Ezechiel,  Book  I.,  Homilv  x. 

I.  What  is  the  meaning  of  this  fact  that,  when  God, 
the  Creator  of  all  men,  was  about  to  heal  a  deaf  and 
dumb  man,  He  put  His  fingers  into  his  ears,  and  spitting ,  He 
touched  his  tongue  ?  Are  not  the  gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
figured  by  the  fingers  of  the  Redeemer  ?  Hence  it  is 
mentioned  in  another  place  that,  after  casting  out  an  evil 
spirit,  He  said :  ‘  If  I  by  the  finger  of  God  cast  out  devils , 
doubtless  the  kingdom  of  God  is  come  upon  you  (Luke  xi.  20). 
The  same  idea  is  expressed  by  another  Evangelist  in 
these  words  :  If  I  by  the  Spirit  of  God  cast  out  devils ,  then  is 
the  kingdom  of  God  come  upon  you  (Matt.  xii.  28).  And 
setting  these  two  passages  together,  we  see  that  the 
finger  of_  God  is  called  the  Spirit  of  God ;  that  our  Lord, 
putting  His  fingers  into  the  deaf  man’s  ears,  enlightened 
by  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  his  dark  mind  into  obedi¬ 
ence.  And  what  is  the  meaning  of  spitting ,  He  touched  his 
tongue  ?  Out  of  the  Redeemer’s  mouth  we  receive 
spittle  upon  our  tongues,  when  the  wisdom  of  speaking 
God’s  truth  is  given  to  us.  Spittle  flows  from  the  head 
into  our  mouth  ;  and  so  that  wisdom,  which  is  Himself, 
the  great  Head  of  the  Church,  as  soon  as  it  has  touched 
our  tongue,  at  once  takes  the  form  of  preaching.  And , 
looking  up  to  heaven ,  He  groaned .  Not  that  He  had  any 
need  to  sigh  or  to  groan,  He  Who  gave  whatsoever  He 
asked.  But  He  wished  to  teach  us  to  look  up  and  sigh 
towards  Him  Whose  throne  is  in  heaven,  and,  confessing 
our  needs,  to  obtain  that  our  ears  should  be  opened  by  the 
gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  our  tongue  loosed  by  the 
saliva  of  our  Saviour’s  mouth — that  is,  by  the  knowledge 
of  His  Divine  word,  before  using  it  to  preach  to  others. 


ELEVENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  301 

And  He  said  to  him ,  Ephpheta — that  is ,  Be  thou  opened . 
And  immediately  his  ears  were  opened ,  and  the  string  of  his 
tongue  was  loosed.  Let  us  remark  that  the  command 
Be  thou  opened  was  addressed  to  the  deaf  ears  ;  yet  the 
tongue  also  was  loosed.  Just  so.  When  the  ears  of 
a  man’s  heart  are  opened  to  learn  the  obedience  of 
faith,  the  string  of  his  tongue  also  is  loosed,  that  he 
may  exhort  others  to  do  the  good  things  which  he  does. 
It  is  well  added,  And  he  spoke  right.  For  he  only  does 
well  preach  obedience  to  others,  who  has  first  learnt  to 
obey. 

II.  And  so  much  the  more  did  they  wonder ,  saying:  He 
hath  done  all  things  well .  These  words  were  spoken  by  the 
admiring  multitude,  uttered  by  them  in  a  transport  of 
wonder  at  the  great  miracle  wrought  by  our  Lord  on  the 
deaf  and  dumb  man  brought  to  Him.  The  condition  of 
this  man  was  truly  deplorable,  and  rendered  him  an 
object  of  our  Saviour’s  compassion.  He  is  also  a  figure 
of  the  much  more  deplorable  condition  of  wilful  and 
habitual  sinners,  who  are  spiritually  deaf  and  dumb  ;  who 
do  not,  because  they  will  not,  hear  those  things  that 
belong  to  their  great  and  eternal  interest ;  who,  though 
having  tongues,  may  be  said  to  be  dumb,  because  of  their 
making  a  wrong  use  of  their  faculty  of  speech.  It  is  to 
cure  these  unhappy  sinners  that  Christ,  by  His  ministers, 
offers  His  assistance,  to  put  His  fingers  into  their  ears, 
and  to  touch  their  tongues.  Yet,  they  must  be  willing  to 
accept  the  remedies,  and  to  be  aware  of  the  danger  in 
which  they  are.  Thus  our  first  duty  is  to  show  wilful 
sinners  that  they  are  truly  and  spiritually  deaf  and  dumb  ; 
then  to  make  them  willing  to  apply  the  proposed 
remedies. 

III.  The  Royal  Psalmist,  speaking  of  the  heathen 
idols,  says  :  They  have  ears,  and  hear  not ;  they  have  a  mouth , 


302  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

and  speak  not  (Ps.  cxiii.).  The  same  may  be  said,  in  a 
spiritual  sense,  of  sinners  who,  in  spite  of  all  exhorta¬ 
tions,  choose  to  proceed  in  their  sinful  ways.  Holy 
Scripture  calls  them  deaf ,  and  pronounces  them  dumb 
dogs  ;  for  though  they  enjoy  the  senses  of  hearing  and 
speaking,  by  the  wrong  use  of  them,  they  make  their 
condition  worse  than  if  they  had  them  not.  To  be 
corporally  deaf,  so  as  not  to  hear  what  is  said,  is  a  very 
great  misfortune  and  deserves  compassion,  though  there 
is  nothing  criminal  in  it.  But  a  wilfully  spiritual  deaf¬ 
ness,  and  an  obstinate  refusing  to  hearken  to  what  is 
said,  is  more  than  a  misfortune  :  it  is  a  voluntary  crime. 
Such  are  sinners,  viz.,  those  obstinately  continuing  in 
their  criminal  ways.  They  have  ears,  but  will  not  hear  ; 
they  are  deaf,  not  by  misfortune,  but  by  choice.  They 
are  often  called  upon,  and  often  spoken  to  ;  and  what  is 
told  them  is  in  the  name  of  God,  Who  said  :  He  that 
hear  eth  you  >  lieareth  Me;  and  he  that  despiseth  you,  despiseth 
Me  (Luke  x.  16).  Nay,  God  Himself  often  speaks  to 
them  and  calls  upon  them  to  leave  the  broad  and 
dangerous  road  of  sin,  assuring  them  that  it  leads  to 
destruction.  To  continue  on  this  dangerous  road,  to 
persist  in  this  fatal  and  broad  way,  what  is  it,  but  a 
proof  that  we  do  not  and  will  not  hear,  and  stop  our  ears 
against  every  admonition,  and  that,  if  we  perish,  it  is  our 
own  fault. 

IV.  What  has  been  said  of  sinners  being  spiritually 
and  wilfully  deaf,  is  equally  true  of  the  faculty  of  speak¬ 
ing,  which  they  have  lost  in  the  same  way.  To  be  dumb 
is  generally  considered  as  a  natural  consequence  of  being 
deaf.  For  not  being  able  to  hear  what  is  said,  it  is  not 
easy  to  learn  how  to  speak.  In  like  manner,  when 
sinners  have  contracted  a  spiritual  deafness,  and  will  not 
hear  what  is  said  to  them  about  their  duties,  there  is  no 


ELEVENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  303 

wonder  that  they  become  likewise  spiritually  dumb,  as  to 
the  right  use  of  speech.  A  proof  of  spiritual  dumbness 
is  the  too  frequent  omission  of  prayer,  of  devotion,  and 
of  other  religious  duties.  In  this  respect  many  are  dumb  ; 
for  though  they  know  how  to  speak,  and  do  so  very  often, 
and  with  great  eloquence,  about  the  things  of  this  world, 
yet,  in  regard  to  God  and  His  honour  and  service,  they 
know  not  how — that  is,  they  will  not  open  their  mouths. 
And,  while  they  often  run  on  with  great  volubility  of 
speech  in  speaking  ill  of  their  neighbours,  they  will  not 
say  one  single  word  in  his  defence.  Again  there  are 
many  and  horrible  abuses  of  the  tongue  by  cursing  and 
swearing,  by  calumny,  lying  and  detraction,  vain  and 
immodest  conversations.  It  is  quite  clear  that  those, 
who  employ  their  tongues  in  such  discourses,  are  in  a 
worse  condition  than  the  dumb  man  in  the  Gospel.  In 
these,  and  many  other  cases,  sinners  show  themselves  to 
be  deaf  and  dumb ;  and  since  they  are  in  this  unhappy 
condition,  it  will  be  a  great  work  of  charity  to  endeavour 
to  cure  them,  greater  even  than  to  cure  a  man  who 
cannot  hear  or  speak.  For  such  a  cure  to  be  effected, 
sinners  spiritually  deaf  and  dumb  must  be  sensible  of 
their  sad  state.  Of  this  they  are  often  told,  and  they  are 
also  reminded  of  the  danger  they  are  in  of  being  lost  for 
ever.  Such  sinners  also  must  have  recourse  to  Jesus, 
and  by  sincere  sorrow  and  contrition,  seek  to  obtain 
pardon.  This  sorrow  must  be  accompanied  by  firm  and 
sincere  resolutions  of  amendment,  and  a  careful  avoiding 
of  sin  and  occasions  of  sins.  Thus  disposed  let  them 
apply  to  the  ministers  of  God  in  the  holy  Sacrament  of 
penance.  It  is  there  Jesus  will  put  His  fingers  into 
their  ears,  will  touch  their  tongue  and  say  these  powerful 
words  :  Ephpheta — that  is ,  Be  thou  opened .  And  their  ears 
will  be  opened  and  their  tongues  loosed,  and  they  will 


304  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

speak  plain  and  right.  Yet  let  them  take  care  of  not 
relapsing  into  former  sins,  but  of  being  faithful  to  their 
good  purposes. 

TWELFTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Luke  x.  23-37.  At  that  time:  Jesus  said  to 
His  disciples  :  Blessed  are  the  eyes  that  see  the  things 
which  you  see.  For  I  say  to  you,  that  many  prophets 
and  kings  have  desired  to  see  the  things  that  you  see, 
and  have  not  seen  them  ;  and  to  hear  the  things  that  you 
hear,  and  have  not  heard  them.  And  behold  a  certain 
lawyer  stood  up,  tempting  Him,  and  saying  :  Master, 
what  must  I  do  to  possess  eternal  life  ?  But  He  said  to 
him:  What  is  written  in  the  law?  how  readest  thou? 
He  answering  said  :  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God 
with  thy  whole  heart,  and  with  thy  whole  soul,  and  with 
all  thy  strength,  and  with  all  thy  mind ;  and  thy  neigh¬ 
bour  as  thyself.  And  He  said  to  him :  Thou  hast 
answered  rightly :  this  do  and  thou  shalt  live.  But  he, 
willing  to  justify  himself,  said  to  Jesus :  And  who  is 
my  neighbour  ?  And  Jesus  answering,  said  :  A  certain 
man  went  down  from  Jerusalem  to  Jericho,  and  fell 
among  robbers,  who  stripped  him,  and  having  wounded 
him,  went  away,  leaving  him  half  dead.  And  it  chanced 
that  a  certain  priest  went  down  the  same  way,  and  seeing 
him,  passed  by.  In  like  manner  also  a  levite,  when  he 
was  near  the  place  and  saw  him,  passed  by.  But  a 
certain  Samaritan,  being  on  his  journey,  came  near  him, 
and  seeing  him,  was  moved  with  compassion.  And 
going  up  to  him,  bound  up  his  wounds,  pouring  in  oil 
and  wine ;  and  setting  him  upon  his  own  beast,  brought 
him  to  an  inn,  and  took  care  of  him.  And  the  next  day 
he  took  out  two  pence  and  gave  to  the  host,  and  said  : 


TWELFTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  305 

Take  care  of  him,  and  whatsoever  thou  shalt  spend  over 
and  above,  I  at  my  return  will  repay  thee.  Which  of 
these  three,  in  thy  opinion,  was  neighbour  to  him  that 
fell  among  the  robbers  ?  But  he  said  :  He  that  showed 
mercy  to  him.  And  Jesus  said  to  him  :  Go,  and  do  thou 
in  like  manner. 

HOMILY  BY  THE  VENERABLE  BEDE,  PRIEST. 

On  Luke  x.,  Book  iii.,  Chap,  xliii. 

I.  And  turning  to  His  disciples ,  He  said:  Blessed  are  the 
eyes  that  see  the  things  which  you  see .  Blessed  were  the  eyes 
— not  of  Scribes  and  Pharisees,  which  saw  only  the  body 
of  the  Lord — but  of  those  who  were  able  to  see  the  things 
belonging  to  faith  and  salvation,  and  of  whom  it  is 
written :  Thou  hast  hidden  these  things  from  the  wise  and 
prudent ,  and  hast  revealed  them  to  little  ones  (x.  21).  Blessed, 
therefore,  are  the  eyes  of  the  humble  and  little  ones,  to 
whom  the  Son  of  God  deigned  to  reveal  Himself  and  the 
Father  also.  I  say  to  you  that  many  prophets  and  kings  have 
desired  to  see  the  things  you  see ,  and  have  not  seen  them.  Even 
patriarchs  desired  to  see  these  things:  Abraham  your 
father  rejoiced  that  he  might  see  My  day — the  day  of  My 
Birth  ;  he  saw  it — in  his  strong  faith — and  was  glad  (John 
viii,  56).  Isaias  and  Micheas  and  many  other  holy 
prophets  saw  in  the  darkness  of  future  times  the  glory  of 
the  Lord,  wherefore 'they  are  called  Seers  in  Holy  Scrip¬ 
ture.  But  they  all  beheld  it  afar  off,  seeing  it  through  a 
glass,  in  a  dark  manner  ( 1  Cor.  xiii.  12).  But  the  Apostles, 
having  the  happiness  of  seeing  our  Lord  face  to  face,  of 
eating  with  Him,  and  learning  from  Him  by  their  ques¬ 
tions  whatsoever  they  liked,  had  no  need  of  being  taught 
by  angels  or  by  different  kinds  of  visions.  They  who  by 
Luke  are  called  prophets  and  kings ,  are  named  by  Matthew 

20 


3o6  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

prophets  and  just  men  (xiii.  17).  Just  men  are  mighty 
kings  indeed,  for  they  know  how  to  govern  their 
rebellious  passions,  instead  of  falling  under  them,  and 
thus  becoming  their  slaves. 

II.  And  behold  a  certain  lawyer  stood  up ,  tempting  Him, 
and  saying :  Master,  what  must  I  do  to  possess  eternal  life  ? 
This  lawyer,  who  stood  up  to  ask  the  Lord  a  tempting 
question  about  eternal  life,  took  the  subject  of  his  asking, 
as  I  think,  from  the  words  just  uttered  by  our  Lord : 
Rejoice  in  this ,  that  your  names  are  written  in  heaven  (x.  20). 
But  his  attempt  was  certainly  a  proof  of  these  other 
words  immediately  following  :  I  confess  to  Thee ,  0  Father, 
Lord  of  heaven  and  earth ,  because  Thou  hast  hidden  these  things 
from  the  wise  and  prudent,  and  hast  revealed  them  to  little' ones. 

III.  However,  our  Lord  answered  the  lawyer,  and  put 
this  question  to  him :  What  is  written  in  the  law  ?  And 
the  lawyer,  answering,  said  :  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy 
God  with  thy  whole  heart,  and  with  thy  whole  soul,  and  with 
all  thy  strength,  and  with  all  thy  mind  ;  and  thy  neighbour  as 
thyself  And  the  Lord  praised  that  answer  as  very  good, 
since  by  the  love  of  God  we  attain  perfection,  and  walk 
on  the  road  to  eternal  life;  and  He  said:  This  do,  and 
thou  shalt  live .  Again,  when  the  lawyer,  answering  Jesus, 
said  that  the  neighbour  was  he  who  showed  mercy  to 
the  man  fallen  among  robbers  on  the  road  to  Jericho, 
Jesus  said  to  him:  Go,  and  do  thou  in  like  manner.  And 
by  these  words  our  Redeemer  seems  to  say :  Remember 
that  the  charity  and  help  thou  owest  to  thy  neighbour 
must  be  like  that  of  the  Samaritan — must  consist,  not  in 
words  only,  but  in  deeds,  if  by  thy  charity  thou  wish  to 
obtain  eternal  life. 

IV.  But  he,  willing  to  justify  himself,  said  to  Jesus  :  And 
who  is  my  neighbour  ?  Consider  the  foolishness  of  his 
vainglory  !  He  wished  to  justify  himself,  and  at  the 


TWELFTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 


307 


same  time  to  obtain  the  favour  and  esteem  of  the  people 
who  were  listening  to  him.  Trying  to  show  his  presump¬ 
tuous  wisdom  before  the  eyes  of  the  world,  he  only  dis¬ 
closed  his  ignorance  concerning  the  first  commandment 
prescribed  by  the  Law.  Yet,  though  pronounced  by 
Jesus  as  wise  and  prudent,  this  lawyer  deserved  to  be 
deprived  of  the  special  knowledge  of  the  mysteries  of 
God,  revealed  to  pure  and  innocent  souls,  because  he 
refused  to  humble  himself  with  the  little  ones  so  dear  to 
Jesus,  and  wished  to  justify  himself. 

V.  Let  us  finally  consider  that,  by  His  answer  to  the 
lawyer  concerning  our  neighbour,  our  Lord  wished  to 
convey  this  lesson,  that  the  neighbour  is  he  who  does 
mercy  and  gives  assistance  to  those  in  need.  But  besides 
this,  we  are  taught  by  the  parable  that,  under  the  word 
neighbour  may  be  understood  the  Son  of  God  Himself, 
Who  approached  us  in  a  visible  manner,  when  assuming 
our  human  nature.  Yet,  this  meaning  of  Jesus  Christ, 
being  our  neighbour,  must  not  be  taken  in  a  figurative 
sense,  as  if  dispensing  us  from  the  duty  of  rendering  to 
our  brethren  all  the  works  of  love  and  charity  com¬ 
manded  by  the  Law. 

VI.  Carefully  considering  the  parable  in  this  Gospel, 
we  shall  at  once  see  that  the  Samaritan,  giving  a  helping 
hand  to  the  man  found  on  the  road  and  covered  with 
wounds,  is  a  figure  of  Jesus  Christ,  Who,  in  a  more  worthy 
and  sublime  sense  and  with  a  special  love,  became  our 
neighbour  by  taking  upon  Himself  our  wounds  to  heal 
them.  Let  us,  therefore,  love  Him,  for  He  is  our  Lord 
and  God ;  let  us  love  Him  as  our  neighbour,  since,  being 
our  Head  and  we  His  members,  He  cannot  be  nearer  to 
us.  Let  us  also  love  those  that  follow  Him,  and  show 
that  we  love  our  neighbour  as  ourselves  by  giving  them 
all  spiritual  and  temporal  help  in  our  power. 

20 — 2 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


30S 

THIRTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

A 

Gospel:  Luke  xvii.  11-19.  At  that  time:  As  Jesus  was 
going  to  Jerusalem,  He  passed  through  the  midst  of 
Samaria  and  Galilee.  And  as  He  entered  into  a  certain 
town,  there  met  Him  ten  men  that  were  lepers,  who  stood 
afar  off  and  lifted  up  their  voice,  saying  :  Jesus,  Master, 
have  mercy  on  us.  Whom,  when  He  saw,  He  said : 
Go,  show  yourselves  to  the  priests.  And  it  came  to 
pass,  as  they  went,  they  were  made  clean.  And  one  of 
them,  when  he  saw  that’  he  was  made  clean,  went  back, 
with  a  loud  voice  glorifying  God.  And  he  fell  on  his  face 
before  His  feet,  giving  thanks  ;  and  this  was  a  Samaritan. 
And  Jesus,  answering,  said:  Were  not  ten  made  clean, 
and  where  are  the  nine  ?  There  is  no  one  found  to 
return  and  give  glory  to  God,  but  this  stranger.  And 
He  said  to  him  :  Arise,  go  thy  way ;  for  thy  faith  hath 
made  thee  whole. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

On  Gospel  Questions,  Book  it.,  Chap.  xl. 

I.  The  ten  lepers  met  by  Jesus  when  going  to  Jerusalem 
lifted  up  their  voice ,  saying :  Jesus ,  Master ,  have  mercy  on  us. 
Whom ,  when  He  saw ,  He  said :  Go,  show  yourselves  to  the 
priests.  And  it  came  to  pass ,  as  they  went ,  they  were  made 
clean .  Considering  this  fact,  we  ask  :  Why  did  the  Lord 
send  them  to  the  priests,  that  they  might  be  cleansed  as 
they  went  ?  Lepers  were  the  only  class  among  those 
whose  bodies  were  cured  by  Jesus,  who  were  sent  by 
Him  to  the  priests.  In  another  place  it  is  written  that 
our  Lord  said  to  a  leper  whom  He  had  cleansed :  Go, 
show  thyself  to  the  priest ,  and  offer  for  thy  cleansing  according 
as  Moses  commanded  for  a  testimony  to  them  (Luke  v.  14). 


THIRTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  309 

We  ask,  then,  of  what  leprosy  was  a  type,  since  those 
who  were  delivered  were  called,  not  healed ,  but  cleansed . 
This  disease  first  appears  in  the  colour  of  the  skin,  but 
does  not  immediately  destroy  the  health,  nor  the  use  of 
the  feeling  and  the  limbs.  Lepers,  we  may  not  absurdly 
suppose,  are  the  types  of  those  who  have  not  the  know¬ 
ledge  of  the  true  faith,  but  show  forth  various  teachings 
of  error.  They  do  not  hide  their  ignorance,  but  make  use 
of  all  the  wit  they  have  to  manifest  and  proclaim  it  in 
high-sounding  words.  There  is  no  false  ddctrine,  but  has 
some  truth  mixed  with  it.  A  man’s  discourse  with  some 
truths  in  it  mingled  with  errors,  and  all  confounded  in 
one  mass,  is  like  to  the  body  of  one  stricken  with  leprosy, 
whereon  various  foul  colours  appear  in  different  places 
along  with  the  true  colour  of  the  skin. 

II.  It  follows  that  such  men  are  to  be  avoided  by  the 
faithful,  to  the  end  that,  standing  afar  off,  they  may  lift  up 
their  voices  and  cry  to  the  Lord,  just  as  the  ten  lepers, 
standing  outside  the  village,  lifted  up  their  voice ,  saying: 
Jesus,  Master,  have  mercy  on  us.  Notice  that  they  called 
Him  Master  ;  and  I  know  not  that  any  of  those  who  were 
cured  by  Him,  ever  called  Him  by  this  title.  I  think  by 
this  it  is  sufficiently  shown  that  leprosy  signifies  false 
doctrines,  whereof  we  are  cleansed  by  the  Good  Master. 

III.  As  to  the  priests,  to  whom  the  ten  lepers  were  sent, 
it  is  known  to  every  good  Christian  that  they  were  a 
figure  or  type  of  the  kingly  priesthood — that  is,  the 
Church,  by  whom  the  faithful,  belonging  to  the  body  of 
Christ,  are  consecrated,  He  being  the  true  High  Priest. 
Now  all  the  faithful  are  anointed,  what  among  the  Jews 
was -the  privilege  only  of  kings  and  priests.  St.  Peter, 
therefore,  in  his  first  Epistle  (1  Pet.  ii.  9)  calls  them  a 
kingly  priesthood,  because  in  some  manner  the  dignity  of 
king  and  priest  belongs  to  them  by  reason  of  their 


3io 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


unction.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the  diseases  of  our  soul 
and  the  defects  of  our  mind  and  senses  are  cured  and 
corrected  in  our  conscience  by  Jesus  Himself.  However, 
when  our  ignorance  is  to  be  enlightened  by  words  suit¬ 
able  to  our  needs  ;  when  we  are  to  receive  the  Sacraments, 
then  we  must  have  recourse  to  the  ministers  appointed  by 
our  Lord.  These  ministers  are  to  pronounce  on  the 
colour  of  the  leprosy,  so  as  not  to  confound  it  with  the 
true  and  sincere  doctrine  manifested  by  the  good  works 
brought  forth.  » St.  Paul  was  thus  instructed.  He  heard 
the  voice  :  Saul ,  Saul ,  why  persecutest  thou  Me  ?  Who  said  : 
Who  art  Thou,  Lord  ?  And  He  :  I  am  Jesus  Whom  thou  per  - 
secutest  (Acts  ix.  4,  5).  Yet,  he  was  sent  to  Ananias,  who, 
by  virtue  of  the  power  of  the  priesthood,  was  to  instruct 
him  in  the  doctrine  of  faith,  and  afterwards  to  pronounce 
on  the  genuineness  of  his  colour — that  is,  of  his  mission 
to  the  Gentiles. 

IV.  It  does  not  follow  from  this  that  Jesus  could  not 
do  all  that  by  Himself,  for  who  else  does  all  these  things 
in  His  Church  ?  But  if  He  wishes  us  to  consult  His 
ministers,  and  thus  to  be  made  sure  of  the  doctrine  and 
faith  we  profess,  it  is  to  unite  all  the  members  of  His 
Church  into  one  and  the  same  society  or  fold,  with  the  one 
and  same  doctrine,  and  thus  to  preserve  the  unity  and 
soundness  of  colour — that  is,  of  faith,  the  one  sure  mark 
of  the  Church.  This  is  confirmed  by  the  words  of  St.  Paul 
to  the  Galatians  :  Then  after  fourteen  years  I  went  up  again  to 
Jerusalem  with  Barnabas ,  taking  Titus  also  with  me .  And  I 
went  up  according  to  revelation ,  and  conferred  with  them  the 
Gospel  which  I  preach  among  the  Gentiles ,  but  apart  with  them 
who  seemed  to  be  something  ;  lest  perhaps  I  should  run  or  had  run 
in  vain  (Gal.  ii.  1).  And  soon  after  he  adds  :  And  when 
they  had  known  the  grace  that  was  given  to  me,  James  and 
Cephas  and  John,  who  seemed  to  be  pillars ,  gave  to  me  and 


THIRTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  311 

Barnabas  the  right  hand  of  fellowship  (ii.  9).  This  confer- 
ence  of  St.  Paul  with  the  three  Apostles  clearly  shows 
the  necessity  of  knowing  whether  his  doctrine  agreed  with 
the  true  doctrine  of  the  Church  of  Christ.  We  hear  him, 
therefore,  beseeching  the  Corinthians  to  remain  in  the 
unity  of  doctrine :  I  beseech  you ,  brethren ,  by  the  name  of 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christy  that  you  all  speak  the  same  thing 
(1  Cor.  i.  10). 

V.  Then  the  centurion  Cornelius  was  told  by  an  Angel 
of  God  that  his  prayers  and  almsgivings  had  ascended  for 
a  memorial  in  the  sight  of  God  (Acts  x.  4) ;  yet  he  was 
ordered  to  send  men  to  Joppe ,  and  call  hither  one  Simon ,  who 
is  surnamed  Peter ,  to  receive  from  him  the  true  doctrine 
and  the  unity  of  the  Sacraments.  Telling  him  and  his 
whole  house  to  send  for  Peter  seems  as  if  our  Lord  had 
said:  Go,  show  yourselves  to  the  priests.  And,  as  they  went, 
they  were  made  clean .  Peter  had  already  come  to  them  ; 
but  since  they  had  not  received  the  Sacrament  of  Baptism, 
they  had  not  been  spiritually  presented  to  the  priests, 
though  their  cleansing  had  been  declared  by  the  Holy 
Ghost  coming  into  them,  and  by  the  gift  of  tongues  im¬ 
parted  to  them. 

VI.  There  is  no  doubt  about  this;  yet  it  may  happen 
that  we  are  delivered  from  leprosy — that  is,  from  false 
doctrines — after  accepting  the  true  faith  and  embracing 
the  doctrine  of  the  Church  in  all  its  points,  so  as  to 
be  able  to  distinguish  between  the  things  coming  from 
the  Creator  and  those  proceeding  from  His  creatures. 
But  we  still  remain  ungrateful  towards  God,  by  Whom 
we  were  cleansed  from  our  spiritual  leprosy.  Our 
pride  and  our  presumption,  preventing  us  from  humbly 
recognising  the  blessings  of  our  Creator,  are  the  cause 
of  our  ingratitude.  We  are  like  those  spoken  of  by 
the  Apostle :  When  they  knew  God,  they  have  not  glorj 


312 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


fied  Him  as  God ,  or  given  thanks  (Rom.  i.  21).  Note 
these  words  of  the  Apostle.  They  mean  that  these 
people  knew  God,  and  were  freed  from  the  leprosy  of 
error,  yet  were  still  afflicted  with  ingratitude  towards 
their  Creator  Who  had  enlightened  them.  They  must, 
therefore,  be  reckoned  among  the  nine  lepers  of  the 
Gospel.  This  number  nine  is  imperfect,  and  must 
increase  by  one,  and  thus  be  made  perfect,  since  nothing 
can  be  added  to  the  number  ten ,  perfect  in  itself.  This 
tenth  is  the  leper  who  came  back,  with  a  loud  voice  glorify¬ 
ing  God  and  giving  thanks .  He  represents  the  Church,  in 
whom  alone  there  is  unity.  He  is  praised  by  our  Lord, 
whereas  the  nine  others  are  rejected  and  condemned  on 
account  of  their  ingratitude.  Consider  also  that  these 
nine  lepers  were  a  type  of  the  Jews,  who,  through  their 
pride  and  ingratitude,  lost  the  kingdom  of  heaven ;  whereas 
the  one  who  came  back  giving  thanks  was  a  Samaritan, 
who,  like  a  faithful  keeper  of  entrusted  goods,  preserved 
this  kingdom  by  his  humility  and  thankfulness,  and  could 
say  with  the  prophet:  I  will  keep  my  strength  to  Thee,  for 
Thou  art  my  Protector  (Ps.  lviii.  10). 


FOURTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Matt.  vi.  24-33.  At  that  time:  Jesus  said  to 
His  disciples:  No  man  can  serve  two  masters.  For 
either  he  will  hate  the  one,  and  love  the  other ;  or  he  will 
sustain  the  one,  and  despise  the  other.  You  cannot  serve 
God  and  mammon.  Therefore  I  say  to  you,  Be  not 
solicitous  for  your  life,  what  you  shall  eat,  nor  for  your 
body,  what  you  shall  put  on.  Is  not  the  life  more  than 
the  meat,  and  the  body  more  than  the  raiment  ?  Behold 
the  birds  of  the  air,  for  they  neither  sow,  nor  do  they 


FOURTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  313 


reap,  nor  gather  into  barns;  and  your  Heavenly  Father 
feedeth  them.  Are  not  you  of  much  more  value  than 
they  ?  And  which  of  you,  by  taking  thought,  can  add  to 
his  stature  one  cubit  ?  And  for  raiment,  why  are  you 
solicitous  ?  Consider  the  lilies  of  the  field  how  they 
grow  ;  they  labour  not,  neither  do  they  spin.  But  I  say 
to  -you,  that  not  even  Solomon  in  all  his  glory  was 
arrayed  as  one  of  these.  And  if  the  grass  of  the  field, 
which  is  to-day,  and  to-morrow  is  cast  into  the  oven,  God 
doth  so  clothe,  how  much  more  you,  O  ye  of  little  faith  ? 
Be  not  solicitous,  therefore,  saying  :  What  shall  we  eat, 
or  what  shall  we  drink,  or  wherewith  shall  we  be  clothed? 
For  all  these  things  do  the  heathens  seek.  For  your 
Father  knoweth  that  you  have  need  of  all  these  things. 
Seek  ye,  therefore,  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  His 
justice,  and  all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

On  the  Lord’s  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  Book  ii.,  Chap.  xiv. 

I.  These  words  of  our  Lord,  No  man  can  serve  two 
masters ,  are  explained  by  the  following  :  For  either  he  will 
hate  the  one,  and  love  the  other ;  or  he  will  sustain  the  one ,  and 
despise  the  other .  We  ought  carefully  to  weigh  these 
words,  for  our  Lord  shows  who  the  two  masters  are, 
saying  :  You  cannot  serve  God  and  mammon .  Mammon  is  a 
term  which  the  Hebrews  are  said  to  use  for  riches .  It  is 
also  a  Carthaginian  word,  for  the  Punic  word  for  gain  is 
mammon .  He  that  serves  mammon — that  is,  loves  riches 
— serves  that  evil  one  who  has  perversely  chosen  to  be 
the  lord  of  these  earthly  things,  and  is  called  by  the  Lord 
the  prince  of  this  world.  (John  xiv.  30).  Of  these  two 
masters  man  will  either  hate  the  one,  and  love  the  other — 
that  is,  God — or  he  will  sustain  the  one,  and  despise  the 


3H  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

other.  He  that  serves  mammon  sustains  a  hard  and 
pernicious  master ;  for,  led  captive  by  his  lust,  he  is  a 
slave  of  the  devil,  though  he  love  him  not.  Is  there  any¬ 
one  who  loves  the  devil  ?  Yet  there  are  those  who  sus¬ 
tain  him. 

II.  Our  Lord  does „ not  say  that  a  man  serving  two 
masters — that  is,  God  and  mammon — -/will  hate  God  ;  he 
will  despise  Him,  For  there  is  no  one  reproached  by  his 
conscience  for  hating  God.  Yet  God  is  despised,  because, 
His  goodness  being  abused,  He  is  not  feared.  We  are 
warned  by  the  Holy  Ghost  not  to  give  ourselves  up  to 
such  carelessness  and  pernicious  security,  for  the  prophet 
says  :  My  son ,  add  not  sin  upon  sin  ;  and  say  not :  The  mercy 
of  the  Lord  is  great  (Ecclus.  v.  5,  6).  These  words  are  con¬ 
firmed  by  the  Apostle  :  Knowest  thou  not  that  the  benignity 
of  God  leadeth  thee  to  penance  ?  (Rom.  ii.  4),  Indeed, 
what  greater  mercy  can  there  be  imagined  than  that 
of  God  forgiving  sins,  however  great,  to  a  converted 
and  penitent  sinner,  and  giving  the  fertility  of  a  good 
olive-tree  to  a  sterile  oleaster  ?  And  has  God  not  re¬ 
vealed  the  severity  of  His  justice  by  not  sparing  the 
natural  branches — that  is,  the  Jews — but  cutting  them 
off,  on  account  of  their  infidelity  ?  If  we  wish  to  be 
pleasing  to  God,  let  us  not  think  that  we  can  serve  two 
masters,  and  divide  our  heart ;  for  God  must  be  thought 
of  in  goodness  and  sought  in  the  simplicity  of  our  heart. 

III.  And  our  Lord  said:  Therefore  I  say  to  yon ,  Be  not 
solicitous  for  your  life ,  what  ye  shall  eat,  nor  for  your  body3  what 
you  shall  put  on,  lest,  perhaps,  though  such  things  are  not 
superfluous,  but  necessary,  our  heart  should  be  divided 
by  the  seeking  of  needful  things,  and  that  our  intention 
should  be  corrupted  when  doing  something,  as  it  were, 
from  compassion — that  is,  lest,  when  we  seem  to  be  seek¬ 
ing  another's  good,  it  should  be  a  profit  to  ourselves 


FOURTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  315 


rather  than  a  benefit  to  him  that  we  are  seeking.  Thus 
we  do  not  seem  to  ourselves  to  sin,  because  we  wish  to 
obtain,  not  superfluities,  but  necessaries.  And  our  Lord, 
by  His  teaching,  admonishes  us  to  understand  that  we 
may  be  guilty,  if  we  are  too  solicitous  in  seeking  needful 
things.  He  also  reminds  us  that,  when  God  created 
man,  He  gave  him  not  only  a  body  and  a  soul,  but  also 
life,  more  preferable  than  raiment  and  meat,  so  much 
coveted.  Is  not  the  life  more  than  the  meat ,  and  the  body 
more  than  the  raiment  ?  Why  should  He,  Who  gave  us 
life,  not  also  give  us  that  which  is  necessary  to  sustain 
life  ?  And  since  the  body  is  more  than  the  raiment,  why 
should  He,  after  creating  our  body,  refuse  to  give  us 
wherewithal  to  cover  it  ? 

IV.  And  should  anyone  ask,  why  the  soul  spoken  of 
by  our  Lord,  and  being  incorporeal,  is  in  need  of  this 
corporeal  food,  I  answer  that  the  soul  mentioned  in  this 
Gospel  is  meant  for  the  life  of  man,  and  that  the  meat 
is  to  keep  up  that  life,  according  to  the  words  :  He.  that 
loveth  his  life  shall  lose  it  (John  xii.  25).  Indeed,  were  not 
the  soul  taken  here  for  the  life  which  we  are  bound  to 
lose  for  the  kingdom  of  God,  as  the  martyrs  were  able  to 
do,  then  this  command  would  be  contradictory  to  the 
sentence  in  which  it  is  said  :  What  doth  it  profit  a  man,  if 
he  gain  the  whole  world ,  and  suffer  the  loss  of  his  own  soul  ? 
(Matt.  xvi.  26). 

V.  Behold ,  He  said,  the  birds  of  the  air,  for  they  neither 
sow ,  nor  do  they  reap ,  nor  gather  into  barns ;  and  your 
Heavenly  Father  feedeth  them .  Are  not  you  of  much  more 
value  than  they  ?  Indeed,  the  rational  being — that  is, 
man — possesses  a  higher  rank  in  creation  than  irrational 
beings  like  birds,  and  is,  moreover,  destined  to  a  super¬ 
natural  end.  Which  of  you ,  He  added,  by  taking  thought , 
can  add  to  his  stature  one  cubit  ?  And  for  raiment ,  why  are 


3i6 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


you  solicitous  ?  These  words  clearly  tell  us  that,  since  our 
body,  without  the  help  and  protection  of  G*od,  cannot 
attain  its  present  stature,  we  ought  to  leave  to  His  power 
and  providence  the  care  to  cover  it  with  raiment. 

VI.  After  speaking  about  the  food  for  the  body,  our 
Lord  also  mentions  the  clothing:  And  for  raiment ,  why  are 
you  solicitous  ?  Consider  the  lilies  of  the  field  how  they  grow  ; 
they  labour  not ,  neither  do  they  spin .  But  I  say  to  you ,  that 
not  even  Solomon  in  all  his  glory  was  arrayed  as  one  of  these . 
And  if  the  grass  of  the  field ,  which  is  to-day ,  and  to-morrow  is 
cast  into  the  oven ,  God  doth  so  clothe ,  how  much  more  yon,  O  ye 
of  little  faith  ?  Let  us  not  imagine  that,  under  the  figure 
of  the  birds  of  the  air  and  the  lilies  of  the'field,  our  Lord 
wished  to  hide  mysteries.  He  made  use  of  these  common 
and  ordinary  things  to  teach  us  more  important  truths. 
For  on  another  occasion  He  made  use  of  the  parable  of 
a  certain  judge  who  feared  not  God ,  nor  regarded  man  (Luke 
xviii.  2)  ;  yet,  because  the  widow  was  troublesome,  he 
avenged  her,  lest,  continually  coming,  she  weary  him. 
We  cannot  say  that,  under  the  figure  or  allegory  of  this 
unjust  judge,  the  person  of  God  is  meant ;  yet  our  Lord 
wished  to  convey  the  lesson  that,  when  even  an  unjust 
man  yields  to  the  impetuous  prayers  of  petitioners,  God, 
this  infinitely  good  and  just  Lord,  will  not  refuse  to  be 
merciful  to  those  who  beseech  Him. 

VII.  Then  He  says  :  Be  not  solicitous ,  therefore ,  saying  : 
What  shall  we  eat ,  or  what  shall  we  drink ,  or  wherewith  shall 
we  be  clothed  ?  For  after  all  these  things  do  the  heathens  seek. 
For  your  Father  knoweth  that  you  have  need  of  all  these  things . 
Seek  ye,  therefore ,  first  the  kingdom  of  God ,  and  His  justice , 
and  all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you .  By  these  words 
we  are  admonished  that  those  things  we  desire,  as 
necessary  to  life,  must  not  be  considered  as  our  aim, 
when  we  exert  ourselves  to  attain  virtues.  For  the 


FIFTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 


3T7 


difference  between  blessings,  which  are  to  be  sought,  and 
the  necessaries,  that  are  to  be  taken  for  our  use,  is  made 
plain  by  this  sentence,  when  He  said :  Seek  ye  first  the 
kingdom  of  God ,  and  His  justice ,  and  all  these  things  shall  he 
added  unto  you .  The  kingdom  of  God,  therefore,  and  His 
justice  are  to  be  our  principal  aim  and  object,  to  which 
our  efforts  must  be  directed,  since  our  eternal  felicity  will 
depend  on  them.  This  life  is  given  to  man  to  fight  on 
earth  as  a  soldier  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  But,  since 
man  cannot  live  without  the  necessary  means,  God 
promises  to  give  them  to  him:  All  these  things  shall  he  added 
unto  you.  Yet  He  warns  him  to  work  first  for  the  obtain¬ 
ing  of  the  immortal  glory  prepared  for  him  :  Seek  ye  first 
the  kingdom  of  God .  The  needful  things  for  our  corporal 
maintenance  are  to  be  considered  as  means  only  to  obtain 
the  everlasting  goods,  our  final  aim  and  object. 


FIFTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 

Gospel:  Luke  vii.  11-16.  At  that  time:  Jesus  went  into 
a  city  called  Naim,  and  there  went  with  Him  His  disciples, 
and  a  great  multitude.  And  when  He  came  nigh  to  the 
gate  of  the  city,  behold  a  dead  man  was  carried  out,  the 
only  son  of  his  mother,  and  she  was  a  widow ;  and  a 
great  multitude  of  the  city  was  with  her.  Whom  when 
the  Lord  had  seen,  being  moved  with  mercy  toward  her, 
He  said  to  her  :  Weep  not.  And  He  came  near,  and 
touched  the  bier.  And  they  that  carried  it  stood  still. 
And  He  said:  Young  man,  I  say  to  thee,  arise.  And  he 
that  was  dead  sat  up,  and  began  to  speak.  And  He  gave 
him  to  his  mother.  And  there  came  a  fear  on  them  all ; 
and  they  glorified  God,  saying :  A  great  Prophet  is  risen 
up  among  us,  and  God  hath  visited  His  people. 


318 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

Forty- fourth  on  the  Words  of  the  Lord. 

I.  The  joy  of  that  widowed  mother,  when  her  son  was 
again  called  to  life,  is  a  figure  of  the  joy  of  our  Mother 
the  Church,  when  souls  of  men,  spiritually  dead  through 
sin,  are  called  to  life  every  day.  He  was  dead  in  body  ; 
they  have  been  dead  in  soul.  His  death  was  exterior 
and  visibly  bewailed ;  whereas  their  inward  death  has 
neither  been  seen  nor  mourned  for.  But  He,  who  had 
known  them  to  be  dead,  sought  them ;  and  He  alone 
knew  them  to  be  dead,  Who  was  able  to  make  them  live. 
Had  the  Lord  not  come  to  raise  the  dead,  the  Apostle 
could  not  have  said  :  Rise  thou  that  steepest ;  and  arise  from 
the  dead ;  and  Christ  shall  enlighten  thee  (Eph.  v.  14).  You 
hear  the  words :  Rise  thou  that  steepest ,  and  you  think 
they  are  said  to  an  ordinary  sleeper ;  but  you  understand 
them  being  said  of  one  really  dead,  when  you  hear  :  A  rise 
from  the  dead .  Indeed,  in  Holy  Scripture  we  see  that  the 
dead  are  often  said  to  be  asleep.  And  certainly  they  are 
all  but  sleeping  in  respect  of  Him  Who  can  awaken  them ; 
but  in  respect  of  you  a  dead  man  is  dead  indeed,  seeing 
he  will  not  awake,  though  you  call  or  prick  or  pull  him 
to  and  fro.  ,  But  the  young  man  heard  the  word  of  the 
Lord:  Arise,  and  immediately  he  arose,  though  he  had' 
been  dead.  No  one  can  so  easily  awaken  another  asleep 
in  bed,  as  Christ  can  the  dead  in  the  tomb. 

II.  In  the  Gospel  we  read  that  three  dead  persons 
were  raised  by  our  Lord  visibly,  thousands  invisibly. 
But  how  many  more  were  raised  by  Him  visibly  ?  Who 
knows?  For  all  the  things  that  He  did  are  not  written. 
St.  John  says :  There  are  also  many  other  things  which  Jesus 
did ;  which  if  they  were  written  every  one,  the  world  itself,  I 


FIFTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  319 

think ,  would  not  be  able  to  contain  the  books  that  should  be 
written  (John  xxi.  25).  Doubtless  there  were  many  more 
raised  to  life;  but  it  is  not  without  a  meaning  that  three 
only  are  expressly  recorded.  For  our  Lord  wished  that 
those  things  He  did  carnally,  should  also  be  understood 
spiritually.  He  did  not  merely  work  miracles  for  the 
miracles’  sake  ;  but  that  His  works  should  be  at  once 
wonderful  to  them  that  saw  them?  and  true  to  them  that 
understand  them.  Thus,  one  who  looks  at  a  manuscript 
beautifully  written,  but  knows  not  how  to  read,  will 
praise  the  old  transcriber’s  hand,  and  admire  the  beauty 
of  the  characters  ;  but  what  those  letters  signify  or  mean 
he  knows  not,  and  praises  by  the  sight  of  his  eyes,  with¬ 
out  understanding  by  the  mind.  Whereas  the  man  that 
can  not  only  gaze  on  what  is  common  to  all,  but  also 
read  it,  will  praise  the  fine  writing,  and  likewise  under¬ 
stand  its  sense,  which  the  unlearned  cannot.  Even  so, 
there  were  some  who  saw  Christ’s  miracles,  and  under¬ 
stood  not  what  they  meant,  nor  what  they  in  a  manner 
conveyed  to  those  who  understood  them  ;  they  therefore 
only  wondered  at  the  miracles  themselves.  But  there 
were  others  who  saw  the  miracles,  wondered  at,  under¬ 
stood  them,  and  profited  by  them.  And  as  such  we 
ought  to  be  in  the  school  of  Christ. 

III.  Those  who  pretend  that  Jesus  wrought  miracles 
only  for  the  miracles’  sake,  may  also  say  He  did  not 
know  that  it  was  not  the  time  for  fruit,  when  He  sought 
figs  upon  the  fig-tree,  and  found  only  leaves.  The 
Evangelist  says  :  It  was  not  the  time  for  figs  (Mark  xi.  13) ; 
yet,  being  hungry,  He  sought  for  fruit  upon  the  tree. 
Will  they  say  that  Jesus  was  ignorant  of  a  fact  not  un¬ 
known  to  an  ordinary  peasant  ?  That  the  gardener  tend¬ 
ing  the  tree  knew  more  than  the  tree’s  Creator  ?  When 
Jesus,  being  hungry,  sought  for  fruit  on  that  fig-tree,  and 


320 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


found  only  leaves,  He  wished  to  tell  us  that  He  had  a 
more  pressing  hunger,  and  was  seeking  after  something 
else  than  this.  He  found  the  tree  full  of  leaves  and  bare 
of  fruit,  and  He  cursed  it,  and  the  fig-tree  withered  away. 
What  had  the  tree  done  in  not  bearing  fruit  ?  What 
fault  of  the  tree  for  being  then  fruitless  ?  But  this  was 
a  figure  of  those  lazy  and  useless  Christians  who,  by  their 
own  fault,  do  not  bring  forth  any  good  fruit  of  penance 
and  salvation ;  who  by  their  own  will  are  fruitless. 
The  Jews  were  like  this  tree,  when  full  of  leaves  and 
glorying  in  the  letter  of  the  Law,  without  any  deeds,  they 
cared  not  for  the  practice  of  real  works  of  justice,  and 
bore  no  fruit.  I  say  this  to  show  you  that  our  Lord, 
whilst  working  miracles  and  thereby  manifesting  His 
Divine  Power,  had  in  view  to  teach  some  special  truth 
by  these  very  miracles  which  astonished  the  multitudes. 

IV.  Let  us  now  ask  what  our  Lord  would  have  us  learn 
in  the  raising  of  the  three  dead  persons.  The  first  was 
the  dead  daughter  of  one  of  the  rulers  of  the  synagogue. 
The  father  besought  Him  much,  saying :  My  daughter  is 
at  the  point  of  death,  come ,  lay  Thy  hand  upon  her ,  that  she 
may  be  safe  and  may  live  (Mark  v.  23).  And  as  He  went, 
it  was  announced  that  the  daughter  was  dead.  Word 
was  brought  to  the  father:  Thy  daughter  is  dead;  why 
dost  thou  trouble  the  Master  any  further  ?  But  He  went  on, 
only  saying  to  the  father :  Fear  not ,  only  believe .  And 
when  He  came  to  the  house,  and  saw  the  preparations 
for  the  funeral,  He  said  :  Weep  not ;  the  maid  is  not  dead , 
but  sleepeth .  He  spoke  the  truth ;  indeed,  she  slept,  but 
only  in  respect  of  Him,  Who  could  awaken  her  to  life. 
And  so,  awakening  her,  He  gave  her  to  her  parents.  He 
also  raised  to  life  the  young  man  mentioned  in  this 
Gospel,  of  which  I  wish  to  speak  to  you,  beloved.  You 
know  how  He  restored  him  to  life.  He  came  nigh  to  the 


FIFTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  321 

city  of  Naim,  and  behold  a  dead  man  was  earned  out ,  already 
beyond  the  gate  of  the  city.  And,  moved  with  compassion 
for  that  mother  who,  a  widow,  and  bereaved  of  her  only 
son,  was  weeping,  He  said  :  Young  man ,  I  say  to  thee ,  arise . 
And  he  that  was  dead  sat  up,  and  began  to  speak .  And  He 
gave  him  to  his  mother .  And  Lazarus  also  was  raised  even 
from  his  tomb.  The  disciples  knew  that  Lazarus,  whom 
Jesus  loved,  was  sick,  and  He  said  to  them  :  Lazarus ,  our 
friend ,  sleepeth .  And  they,  thinking  only  of  a  healthful 
sleep,  said  :  Lord ,  if  he  sleep  he  shall  do  well .  Then  Jesus , 
speaking  more  plainly,  said  to  them :  Lazarus  is  dead 
(John  xi.).  Indeed,  He  spoke  the  truth;  Lazarus  was 
dead  to  them,  but  was  only  asleep  to  Him. 

V.  These  three  dead  persons  raised  by  Jesus  under 
different  circumstances,  are  three  kinds  of  sinners  every 
day  awakened  by  Jesus  from  a  spiritual  death.  The  first 
are  represented  by  the  daughter  of  the  ruler  of  the  syna¬ 
gogue.  She  was  still  within  the  house,  though  dead,  and 
it  was  in  the  house  that  Jesus  raised  her  to  life,  so  to 
speak,  without  difficulty,  and  gave  her  to  her  parents. 
The  young  man,  spoken  of  in  this  Gospel,  was  already 
out  of  the  house,  but  not  yet  in  the  grave.  He  who 
raised  the  dead  maiden,  not  yet  carried  out  of  the  house, 
also  raised  the  other,  who  had  been  carried  out,  but  was 
not  yet  buried.  To  give  an  image  of  the  third  kind  of 
sinners,  nothing  remained  to  our  Lord  but  to  bring  to 
life  one  dead  and  already  buried,  and  this  was  done  in 
the  person  of  Lazarus.  This  mystery  of  the  three  d,ead 
persons,  raised  to  life,  may  be  easily  understood,  when  we 
consider  that  there  are  sinners  committing  sins  in  their 
hearts,  but  not  showing  them  exteriorly.  For  our  Lord 
said  :  Whosoever  shall  look  on  a  woman  to  lust  after  her ,  hath 
already  committed  adultery  with  her  in  his  heart  (Matt.  v.  28). 
Such  sinners  sometimes  awake,  hearing  the  word  of  God, 


21 


322  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

just  as  if  they  heard  the  voice  of  Christ,  saying:  Arise . 
At  once  they  condemn  themselves  for  consenting  to  sin ; 
they  begin  to  inhale  the  atmosphere  of  a  new  life,  and  to 
walk  on  the  road  of  justice  and  salvation.  Of  these 
sinners  it  may  be  said  that  they  are  like  the  daughter  of 
Jairus — that  is,  that  they  are  restored  to  life,  so  to  speak, 
within  their  house,  since  their  hearts,  once  given  up  to 
sin  secretly  in  thought  and  desire,  now  revive  through 
the  grace  of  God.  By  the  second  kind  of  sinners  we 
understand  those  who,  having  given  themselves  up  to 
sins  and  vices,  do  not  hesitate  to  show  and  commit  them 
in  public,  and  are  like  the  young  man  who  died  in  the 
house,  but  was  carried  out  of  it.  Is  there  no  hope  for 
such  sinners,  who  show  by  their  exterior  and  sinful  acts 
that  they  are  spiritually  dead  ?  But  did  not  our  Lord 
say  to  the  dead  young  man  :  I  say  to  thee ,  arise  ?  Let 
such  sinners  hope  that  if,  in  the  state  of  death  to  which 
they  were  brought  by  their  exterior  sins,  they  will  let 
themselves  be  moved  and  aroused  by  the  words  of  truth, 
the  voice  of  Christ  will  yet  call  them,  and  they  shall  not 
perish  for  ever. 

VI.  As  to  those  who  are  so  hardened  in  their  sins  that 
the  evil  habit  renders  them  insensible,  they  become  even 
defenders  of  their  evil  deeds,  and  are  angry  when  they  are 
found  fault  with.  They  are,  so  to  speak,  buried  in  their 
sins,  and  covered  with  darkness  by  the  inveterate  habit  of 
sin  and  vice.  Such  sinners  are  already  in  the  grave,  and 
we  may  say  of  them  that,  like  Lazarus,  they  begin  to  be 
a  prey  to  rottenness  and  worms.  By  this  time  he  stinketh; 
for  he  is  now  of  four  days .  The  heavy  stone  on  the 
sepulchre  is  that  sinful  chain  thrown  around  their  neck 
by  habitual  sin,  from  which,  as  it  seems,  they  are  not 
able  to  be  delivered.  Such  a  sinner  seems  to  be  in  a 
hopeless  condition,  and  it  may  be  said  of  him,  as  of 
Lazarus,  that  he  is  now  of  four  days  in  the  tomb.  How- 


FIFTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST 


323 


ever,  the  same  Redeemer  has  the  power  to  open  that 
sinner’s  eyes,  covered  for  a  long  time  by  the  terrors  and 
deep  darkness  of  night,  and  by  His  grace  to  raise  him 
to  life. 

VI L  And  what  is  the  conclusion  to  be  drawn  from  all 
this  ?  That  those  who  enjoy  the  interior  and  super¬ 
natural  life  of  sanctifying  grace  should  endeavour  to 
preserve  it ;  whereas  those  deprived  of  it  by  sin  should 
make  their  greatest  efforts  to  recover  it.  He  that  carries 
sin  in  his  heart,  though  not  manifested  by  exterior  acts, 
let  him  be  penetrated  by  deep  sorrow,  and  detest  the  very 
thoughts  that  filled  his  heart.  He  will  thus  be  delivered 
from  the  chains  of  death  by  which  he  was  kept  in  the 
prison  of  a  sinful  conscience.  And  the  sinner  who  by 
exterior  acts  showed  to  the  world  the  sins  and  vices  that 
were  in  his  heart,  shall  he  despair?  No;  he  is  dead, 
indeed,  not  only  interiorly,  but  even  exteriorly  in  the 
eyes  of  the  world.  Nevertheless,  he  may  be  raised  to 
life,  though  he  evidently  seems  to  be  carried  out  of  the 
house.  Let  him  be  really  and  interiorly  sorry  for  his 
sinful  and  scandalous  actions,  and  let  him  be  careful  not 
to  be  thrown  into  the  grave,  where  his  unfortunate  habit 
would  become  the  stone  closing  his  sepulchre. 

VIII.  However,  I  am  perhaps  speaking  to  one  groaning 
under  the  burden  of  his  sins,  who  has  become  a  slave  of 
the  sins  habitually  committed  ;  to  one,  perhaps,  who  is 
already  feeling  the  terrors  of  the  tomb,  being  buried  in 
his  grievous  sins.  Doubtless,  such  a  poor  sinner  feels 
wretched  and  miserable.  Yet  the  arm  of  the  Redeemer 
is  strong  enough  to  take  him  out  of  the  deepest  abyss 
into  which  death  has  precipitated  him.  God  the  Almighty 
knows  how  to  make  His  voice  resound  into  the  most 
hardened  heart,  to  break  the  most  indissoluble  bonds, 
and  to  overcome  all  obstacles  opposed  to  the  salvation  of 

21—2 


324 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


sinners.  The  Lord  of  all  mercy  not  only  knows  how  to 
restore  to  life  the  most  wicked  and  reprobate  sinner,  but 
He  also  gives  to  His  ministers  the  power  to  forgive  all 
sins  :  Whatsoever  you  shall  loose  upon  earth ,  shall  be  loosed  also 
in  heaven  (Matt,  xviii.  18).  Let  such  sinners  do  penance, 
and  they  will  feel  as  well  and  pure  as  Lazarus,  who,  after 
his  resurrection,  had  not  a  spot  of  corruption  on  his  body, 
and  came  full  of  life  out  of  the  tomb  where  death  had 
kept  him  for  a  time.  Behold  the  useful  lesson  contained 
in  this  mystery.  You  who  are  in  the  happy  state  of 
sanctifying  grace,  persevere  therein ;  but  you,  unhappy 
sinners,  endeavour  to  shake  off  the  heavy  burden  of  sins 
by  which  you  are  now  oppressed.  Amen. 

SIXTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Luke  xiv.  1-11.  At  that  time:  When  Jesus 
went  into  the  house  of  one  of  the  chief  of  the  Pharisees 
on  the  Sabbath  day  to  eat  bread,  they  watched  Him. 
And  behold  there  was  a  certain  man  before  Him  that  had 
the  dropsy.  And  Jesus  answering,  spoke  to  the  lawyers 
and  Pharisees,  saying :  Is  it  lawful  to  heal  on  the 
Sabbath  day  ?  But  they  held  their  peace.  But  He, 
taking  him,  healed  him,  and  sent  him  away.  And 
answering  them,  He  said :  Which  of  you  shall  have  an 
ass  or  an  ox  fall  into  a  pit,  and  will  not  immediately  draw 
him  out  on  the  Sabbath  day  ?  And  they  could  not 
answer  Him  to  these  things.  And  He  spoke  a  parable 
also  to  them  that  were  invited,  marking  how  they  chose 
the  first  seats  at  the  table,  saying  to  them  :  When  thou 
art  invited  to  a  wedding,  sit  not  down  in  the  first  place, 
lest  perhaps  one  more  honourable  than  thou  be  invited 
by  him ;  and  he  that  invited  thee  and  him  come  and  say 
to  thee  :  Give  this  man  place ;  and  then  thou  begin  with 


SIXTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  325 

shame  to  take  the  lowest  place.  But  when  thou  art 
invited,  go,  sit  down  in  the  lowest  place,  that  when  he 
who  invited  thee  cometh,  he  may  say  to  thee  :  Friend,  go 
up  higher.  Then  shalt  thou  have  glory  before  them  that 
sit  at  table  with  thee ;  because  every  one  that  exalteth 
himself,  shall  be  humbled  ;  and  he  that  humbleth  himself, 
shall  be  exalted. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AMBROSE,  BISHOP. 

On  Luke  xiv.,  Book  vii. 

I.  This  man,  sick  of  the  dropsy,  whose  disease — that 
is,  the  swelling  of  the  body — was  cured  by  our  Lord,  is 
a  figure  of  a  soul  so  heavy  as  not  to  be  able  to  rise  above 
the  senses,  nor  to  feel  the  impression  and  fire  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  And  our  Lord  continued  giving  an  important 
lesson  of  humility,  saying :  When  thou  art  invited  to  a 
wedding ,  sit  not  down  in  the  first  place .  However,  He  spoke 
so  gently  that  His  rebuke,  far  from  irritating  the  guests, 
convinced  them  of  the  truth  of  His  teaching.  Indeed, 
there  was  so  much  wisdom  in  the  words  of  Jesus  that  the 
reason  was  convinced,  whilst  self-love  was  overcome  by 
His  arguments.  There  we  see  how  the  host,  by  whom 
our  Lord  had  been  invited,  was  taught  by  Him  to  be 
kind  to  the  poor.  It  was  not  without  a  special  motive 
that  the  poor  and  weak  were  mentioned  by  our  Lord, 
since  they  are  to  be  preferred  in  our  acts  of  hospitality. 
For  is  it  not  a  movement  of  self-interest  to  show  courtesy  to 
those — the  rich — from  whom  we  expect  to  receive  some¬ 
thing  ? 

II.  The  Son  of  God  also  fixes  the  reward  of  one  that 
has  fought  generously,  and  this  reward  is  the  kingdom 
of  heaven  promised  by  God  to  those  who  make  good  use 
of  the  things  of  this  world.  But  those,  purchasing  to 


326 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


themselves  earthly  possessions,  cannot  expect  to  possess 
that  kingdom.  We  hear  our  Lord  say :  Go  sell  what  thou 
hast ,  and  give  to  the  poor ,  and  follow  Me  (Matt.  xix.  21).  It 
is  evident  that  those,  invited  to  the  supper  of  the  rich  man, 
and  making  excuse,  as  he  who  had  bought  some  yoke  of 
oxen  and  wanted  to  try  them,  were  shut  out  of  the  eternal 
kingdom.  Eliseus  did  not  act  in  that  manner  ;  he  killed 
the  yoke  of  oxen ,  boiled  the  flesh  with  the  plough ,  and  gave  to 
the  people,  and  they  ate  (3  Kings  xix.  21).  Neither  can  he 
win  that  kingdom,  who  married  a  wife,  and  therefore 
could  not  come,  for  he  that  is  without  a  wife ,  is  solicitous  for 
the  things  that  belong  to  the  Lord,  how  he  may  please  God. 
But  he  that  is  with  a  wife ,  is  solicitous  for  the  things  of  the 
world ,  how  he  may  please  his  wife  (1  Cor.  vii.  32,  33).  This 
is  not  to  be  taken  as  blaming  marriage,  but  only  to  say 
that  virginity  is  the  more  honourable  way,  since  the 
unmarried  woman  and  the  virgin — and  the  widow — thinheth 
of  the  things  of  the  Lord  ;  that  she  may  be  holy  both  in  body 
and  in  spirit  (ver.  34). 

III.  But  in  all  fairness,  having  thus  spoken  about 
widows  and  unmarried  women,  let  us  again  return  to  the 
married,  and  with  them  entertain  the  opinion  held  by  so 
many,  that  there  are  only  three  classes  of  men  excluded 
from  the  great  supper  mentioned  in  the  Gospel,  and  that 
these  three  classes  are  Heathens,  Jews,  and  Heretics. 
This  is  the  reason  why  we  are  warned  by  the  Apostle, 
saying  :  Walk  not  as  also  the  Gentiles  walk ,  in  malice  and 
uncleanness  and  covetousness,  and  so  have  no  entry  into 
the  kingdom  of  Christ ;  for  no  unclean ,  or  covetous  person 
( which  is  a  serving  of  idols),  hath  inheritance  in  the  kingdom  of 
Christ  and  of  God  (Eph.  iv.  17;  v.  5). 

IV.  The  Jews  imposed  upon  themselves  a  heavy  and 
useless  yoke  through  the  manifold  ceremonies  by  which 
they  are  still  oppressed.  Yet  the  Prophet  said :  Let  us 


SIXTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  327 

break  their  bonds  asunder  ;  and  let  us  cast  away  their  yoke  from 
us  (Ps.  ii.  3).  As  for  us,  we  have  accepted  Jesus  Christ, 
and  bowed  our  heads  under  the  light  and  gentle  yoke 
prepared  by  His  goodness.  We  may  also  say  that  the 
Jews  were  figured  by  the  man  who,  having  bought  five 
yoke  of  oxen,  excused  himself ;  for  the  Books  of  Moses 
containing  the  Old  Testament  are  five  in  number.  Our 
Lord  alluded,  perhaps,  to  these  five  Books,  when  He  said 
to  the  Samaritan  woman:  Thou  hast  had  jive  husbands 
(John  iv.  18). 

V.  As  for  heresy,  by  which  the  gates  of  heaven  are 
shut  to  all  its  adherents,  it  tries,  like  a  second  Eve,  to 
allure  and  deceive  us  by  its  attractions.  For  by  it  our 
faith  is  weakened,  since  faith  cannot  accommodate  itself  to 
our  concupiscence.  Thus  we  are  dragged  into  the  abyss ; 
for  the  road  to  it  seems  easy  and  agreeable.  The  false 
glitter  of  error  is  often  preferred  to  the  real  and  unchange¬ 
able  beauty  of  the  truth.  All  those  who  were  invited  to 
the  supper  by  the  master  of  the  house,  but  refused  the 
invitation  and  made  excuse,  were  justly  shut  out  of  the 
banquet,  and  this  by  their  own  fault.  All  men  are 
invited  by  our  Lord  to  the  eternal  happiness ;  but  by 
their  carelessness  or  their  errors  many  are  made  unworthy 
of  it. 

SEVENTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTE¬ 
COST. 

Gospel:  Matt,  xxii,  34-46.  At  that  time:  The  Pharisees 
came  to  Jesus,  and  one  of  them,  a  doctor  of  the  law, 
asked  Him,  tempting  Him :  Master,  which  is  the  great 
commandment  of  the  law?  Jesus  said  to  him:  Thou 
shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  thy  whole  heart,  and 
with  thy  whole  soul,  and  with  thy  whole  mind.  This  is 


328 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


the  greatest  and  the  first  commandment.  And  the  second 
is  like  to  this :  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself. 
On  these  two  commandments  dependeth  the  whole  law 
and  the  prophets.  And  the  Pharisees  being  .gathered 
together,  Jesus  asked  them,  saying:  What  think  you  of 
Christ  ?  whose  Son  is  He  ?  They  say  to  Him  :  David’s. 
He  saith  to  them :  How,  then,  doth  David  in  spirit  call 
Him  Lord,  saying :  The  Lord  said  to  my  Lord,  Sit  on 
my  right  hand,  until  I  make  thy  enemies  thy  footstool  ? 
If  David,  then,  call  Him  Lord,  how  is  He  his  Son  ?  And 
no  man  was  able  to  answer  Him  a  word :  neither  durst 
any  man  from  that  day  forth  ask  Him  any  more  ques¬ 
tions. 


HOMILY  BY  ST.  JOHN  CHRYSOSTOM. 

Seventy-second  Homily  on  St.  Matthew. 

I.  When  the  Pharisees  heard  that  He  had  silenced  the 
Sadducees,  they  came  together  for  a  fresh  attack,  just 
when  it  behoved  them  to  keep  their  peace.  But  they 
wished  to  urge  further  their  former  endeavours,  and  one 
of  them  professing  to  be  skilled  in  law,  was  put  forward. 
He  did  not  wish  to  learn,  but  to  lay  a  snare.  He 
therefore  proposed  the  question :  Which  is  the  great  com¬ 
mandment  of  the  law  ?  Since  the  first  commandment  is 
this:  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God ,  they  expected 
that  He  would  make  some  change  or  addition  in  His  own 
behalf,  since  He  made  Himself  God  (John  x.  33).  In 
this  expectation  they  proposed  this  question ;  but  what 
did  Christ  answer  ?  To  show  that  they  had  adopted  this 
course  from  having  no  charity,  from  pining  with  envy 
and  jealousy,  He  answered:  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy 
God  with  thy  whole  hearty  and  with  thy  whole  soul ,  and  with 
thy  whole  mind .  This  is  the  greatest  and  the  first  command - 


SEVENTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  329 

ment,  And  the  second  is  like  to  this:  Thou  shalt  love  thy 
neighbour  as  thyself  .  But  why  is  the  second  command¬ 
ment  like  to  the  first  ?  Because  the  first  is  the  source 
and  support  of  the  second.  For  everyone  that  doth  evil 
hateth  the  light ,  and  cometh  not  to  the  light  (John  iii.  20). 
And  again  :  The  fool  hath  said  in  his  heart :  There  is  no  God 
(Ps.  xiii.  1).  And  what  is  the  consequence  of  this? 
They  are  corrupt ,  and  are  become  abominable  in  their  ways 
{ibid,  2).  And  again  :  The  desire  of  money  is  the  root  of  all 
evils  ;  which  some  coveting  have  erred  from  the  faith  (1  Tim. 
vi.  10).  And  one  more:  If  you  love  Me  keep  My  command¬ 
ments  (John  xiv.  15).  The  sum  of  these  commandments 
are  these  words  :  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God ,  and  thy 
neighbour  as  thyself, 

II.  If,  therefore,  to  love  God  is  to  love  one’s  neighbour, 
as  it  appears  in  this  :  Simon ,  son  of  fohn ,  hvesi  thou  Me  ? 
And  he  said :  Lord>  Thou  knowest  that  I  love  Thee,  He  said 
to  him  :  Feed  My  sheep  (John  xxi.  10),  and  if  love  is  the 
fulfilling  of  the  law  (Rom.  xiii.  17),  then  with  reason  does 
the  Lord  say  that  on  these  two  commandments  dependeth  the 
law  and  the  prophets.  And  what  He  did  before,  He  also 
does  here.  For,  when  asked  about  the  manner  of  the 
resurrection,  He  taught  a  resurrection,  instructing  them 
at  the  same  time  beyond  what  they  asked.  So  now, 

'  being  interrogated  concerning  the  first  commandment, 
He  answers  them  of  his  own  accord  touching  the  second 
also,  which  is  not  much  inferior  to  the  first,  for  the  second 
is  like  to  this  ;  intimating  to  them  that  their  question  had 
arisen  from  hatred  ;  for  charity  envieth  not ,  says  the 
Apostle  (1  Cor.  xiii.  4).  By  this  He  showed  that  He 
was  subject  both  to  the  law  and  the  prophets. 

III.  Having  answered  the  Pharisees,  our  Lord  also  in 
His  turn  asked  them  :  What  think  you  of  Christ  ?  Whose 
Son  is  He?  They  say  to  Him:  David's .  Now  consider 


330 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


how  Jesus  was  proceeding  in  this  instance.  After  many 
miracles  and  many  signs  proving  His  Divinity ;  after 
many  positive  answers  given  to  prove  His  dignity ;  after 
a  great  display  in  words  and  deeds  of  His  unanimity 
with  the  Father ;  and  after  praising  the  man  who  said  that 
there  is  one  God,  He  asked  them  what  they  thought  of 
Christ — that  is,  of  Him.  He  knew  that  the  miracles 
wrought  before  the  eyes  of  the  Jews  could  not  be  denied 
by  them.  Yet  He  also  knew  that  they  would  say  that, 
though  working  miracles,  He  was  an  adversary  to  the 
Law  and  an  enemy  to  God.  After  so  many  things  He 
asked  these  questions,  secretly  leading  them  on  to  confess 
Him  also  to  be  God.  He  had  first  tried  His  disciples, 
asking  them  what  others  said  of  Him,  and  what  they 
themselves  thought  of  Him.  He  did  not  address  Him¬ 
self  first  to  the  Pharisees,  for  He  knew  they  were  ready 
to  call  Him  a  deceiver  and  a  wicked  man,  speaking  all 
things  without  fear.  For  this  reason  He  inquired  for  the 
opinion  of  these  men.  Being  about  to  begin  His  Passion, 
He  announces  David’s  prophecy,  plainly  proclaiming  Him 
to  be  the  Lord,  and  He  makes  use  of  the  prophet’s  testi¬ 
mony  from  a  reasonable  cause.  He  introduces  this  in  a 
suitable  manner,  so  as  to  overthrow  the  mistaken  opinion 
of  the  Jews  pretending  that  He  was  a  mere  man,  and 
shows  how  David  proclaimed  His  Godhead.  Indeed,  the 
Jews  had  said  that  He  was  a  Son  of  David ;  but  in  this 
they  meant  only  His  humanity.  Now,  to  correct  this 
erroneous  opinion,  He  brings  in  the  words  of  the  prophet 
bearing  witness  to  His  being  Lord,  true  Son  of  God,  and 
equal  to  the  Father.  He  does  not  even  stop  at  this,  but 
that  they  may  be  moved  by  fear,  He  adds  the  words  : 
Until  I  make  Thy  enemies  Thy  footstool ;  that  He  might  win 
them  over  at  least  in  this  way. 

IV.  And  that  the  Pharisees  may  not  say  it  was  in 


SEVENTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  331 

flattery  that  David  called  Him  Lord,  or  that  it  was  a 
human  exaggeration,  see  what  He  says  :  How ,  then,  doth 
David  in  spirit  call  Him  Lord ,  saying  :  The  Lord  said  to  my 
Lord ,  Sit  on  My  right  hand  ?  Admire  here  the  humility 
and  modesty  of  Jesus,  since  it  concerned  His  own  honour. 
He  had  first  said  :  What  think  you  ?  Whose  Son  is  He  ? 
in  order  to  get  their  answer.  And  when  they  said 
David's ,  He  did  not  reply :  Yet  David  said  these  things  of 
Him — but  put  another  question :  How,  then ,  doth  David  in 
spirit  call  Him  Lord  ?  so  that  the  sayings  might  not  give 
offence  to  them.  Again,  He  did  not  say  to  them  :  What 
think  you  of  Me  ?  but  of  Christ .  In  the  same  humble 
way  did  the  Apostles  speak,  when,  showing  that  David 
was  not  speaking  of  himself,  but  of  Jesus  Christ,  they 
added  :  Let  us  freely  speak  to  you  of  the  patriarch  David ,  that 
he  died  and  was  buried ,  and  his  sepulchre  is  with  us  to  this 
present  day  (Acts  ii.  29).  Thus,  through  these  ques¬ 
tions  and  answers  our  Lord’s  intention  was  to  give  testi¬ 
mony  to  His  own  Divinity,  making  use  of  the  words  of 
David.  But  let  us  not  think  that  Jesus  wished  to  convey 
the  idea  that  He  was  not  a  Son  of  David.  He  had  not 
rebuked  Peter  for  saying  so  ;  but  He  wished  to  correct 
the  secret  and  erroneous  thoughts  of  the  Pharisees. 

V.  However,  even  when  they  had  heard  these  things, 
they  answered  nothing  ;  for  they  did  not  wish  to  learn  of 
these  so  needful  things,  but  only  to  lay  a  snare.  He 
added  that  He  was  the  Lord,  and,  saying  this,  the 
Prophet  was  His  testimony ;  for  He  knew  that  they  dis¬ 
trusted  Him,  and  spread  false  and  evil  reports  against 
Him.  We  ought  to  have  special  regard  to  this  fact,  and 
not  to  be  offended  if  anything  said  by  Him  seems  humble 
and  lowly ;  for,  as  *with  many  other  things,  He  was  con¬ 
descending  to  their  slow  understanding.  Mark  also  that, 
not  only  by  His  words  and  wonders,  but  also  by  the 


332 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


words  of  the  Prophet,  His  Divinity  was  thoroughly 
proved  to  His  enemies.  For,  quoting  the  words  of 
David  addressed  to  Him :  Sit  on  my  right  hand ,  until  1 
make  Thy  enemies  Thy  footstool,  He  clearly  announced  that 
God,  His  Father,  will  revenge  Him  on  His  enemies ; 
that  the  manner  in  which  His  Father  honoured  Him, 
was  a  proof  of  His  being  equal  to  the  Father  ;  and  He 
put  upon  this  reasoning  an  end  to  their  contention. 
From  thenceforth  they  were  silent,  not  willingly,  but 
from  their  having  nothing  to  say  *  and  they  received  so 
deadly,  a  blow  as  no  longer  to  attempt  the  same  thing 
any  more.  For  no  man  durst  from  that  day  forth  ask  Him 
any  more  questions . 


EIGHTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Matt.  ix.  1-8.  At  that  time:  Jesus  entering 
into  a  boat,  He  passed  over  the  water  and  came  into  His 
own  city.  And  behold  they  brought  to  Him  one  sick  of 
the  palsy,  lying  on  a  bed.  And  Jesus,  seeing  their  faith, 
said  to  the  man  sick  of  the  palsy :  Be  of  good  heart,  son, 
thy  sins  are  forgiven  thee.  And  behold  some  of  the 
Scribes  said  within  themselves  :  He  blasphemeth.  And 
Jesus,  seeing  their  thoughts,  said  :  Why  do  you  think 
evil  in  your  hearts  ?  Whether  is  it  easier  to  say :  Thy 
sins  are  forgiven  thee  ;  or  to  say  :  Arise,  and  walk  ?  But 
that  you  may  know  that  the  Son  of  man  hath  power  on 
earth  to  forgive  sins  (then  said  He  to  the  man  sick  of  the 
palsy),  Arise,  take  up  thy  bed,  and  go  into  thy  house. 
And  he  arose  and  went  into  his  house.  And  the  multi¬ 
tude,  seeing  it,  feared  and  glorified  God  that  gave  such 
power  to  men. 


EIGHTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  333 


HOMILY  BY  ST.  PETER  CHRYSOLOGUS. 

Sermon  l. 

I.  That  Jesus  worked  Divine  mysteries  in  those  things 
which  He  did  as  Man,  and  also  invisible  things  under 
the  appearance  of  things  which  were  seen,  is  shown  in 
this  day’s  lesson.  The  Gospel  says  :  Jesus  entering  into  a 
boat ,  He  passed  over  the  water  and  came  into  His  own  city . 
Was  not  this  He  Who  once  parted  the  waters,  and  made 
the  dry  ground  appear  in  the  depth  of  the  sea,  so  that  the 
people  of  Israel  passed  dry-shod  between  the  masses  of 
water  standing  still,  as  through  a  deep  valley  in  a  moun¬ 
tain  ?  Was  not  this  He  Who  made  the  waves  of  the  sea 
solid  under  the  feet  of  Peter,  so  that  the  watery  path 
offered  a  firm  way  for  human  footsteps  ?  Why,  then,  did 
He  on  this  occasion  deny  to  Himself  a  like  service  from 
the  sea,  but  crossed  over  that  narrow  lake  in  a  boat  ? 
He  entered  into  a  boat ,  and  passed  over .  Why  do  we  wonder, 
my  brethren?’  Jesus  Christ  came  to  take  our  weakness 
upon  Him,  that  He  might  give  us  His  strength  ;  to  seek 
the  things  human*  that  He  might  give  to  men  the  things 
of  God ;  to  receive  insults,  that  He  might  bestow  honours ; 
to  bear  our  weariness,  that  He  might  give  us  health. 
For  the  physician,  who  has  no  infirmities,  knows  not  how 
to  cure  the  infirmities  of  others,  nor  he  that  is  not  weak 
with  the  weak,  how  to  give  strength  to  the  weak.  Had 
our  Lord  remained  in  His  strength,  what  would  He  then 
have  had  in  common  with  man  ?  And  if  His  Flesh  had 
not  also  taken  the  infirmities  of  our  flesh,  it  would  have 
been  idle  for  Him  to  take  Flesh.  He  entered  into  a  boatf 
and  passed  over  into  His  own  city.  The  Lord,  the  Creator 
of  the  world  and  of  all  things  therein,  having  for  our  sake 
imprisoned  Himself  in  our  flesh,  began  to  have  a  human 


334 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


atherland,  to  be  a  citizen  of  a  Jewish  city,  and  to  have 
parents,  though  He  Himself  is  the  Father  of  all  parents. 
And  all  this  that  His  love  might  invite,  His  charity 
draw,  His  tenderness  bind,  His  gentleness  persuade  all 
those  whom  His  Majesty,  as  King,  had  scared,  His 
awfulness  scattered,  and  His  power  terrified  out  of  His 
possessions.  It  is  certain  that  Jesus  had  no  need  of  that 
boat,  but  the  boat  was  in  need  of  Him ;  for  the  Church, 
figured  by  it,  is  like  a  ship  exposed  in  the  midst  of  the 
sea  to  a  thousand  cliffs,  that  she  will  never  be  able  to 
avoid  without  the  skill  of  the  Divine  Pilot. 

II.  And  the  Gospel  says  :  Behold  they  brought  to  Him 
one  sick  of  the  palsy,  lying  on  a  bed .  And  Jesus ,  seeing  their 
faith ,  said  to  the  man  sick  of  the  palsy  :  Be  of  good  heart ,  son , 
thy  sins  are  forgiven  to  thee .  Now  this  man,  cured  of  his 
palsy,  remains  silent,  when,  understanding  from  the 
words  of  the  Redeemer,  that  his  sins  were  forgiven  to 
him,  he  gives  no  sign  of  gratitude  for  the  blessing 
bestowed  upon  him  by  Jesus.  Is  this  not  a  proof  that 
he  was  more  anxious  to  be  delivered  from  the  sickness  of 
his  body,  than  to  receive  the  spiritual  health  of  his  soul  ? 
that  he  was  more  concerned  about  the  temporal  pains  of 
his  sick  body,  than  about  the  eternal  torments  to  which 
his  soul  would  be  condemned  in  the  other  world  ?  Again, 
this  man,  cured  of  his  sickness,  only  thinks  of  the  present 
time,  without  giving  any  thought  to  the  eternal  future. 

III.  It  was  not  without  a  special  motive  that  Jesus, 
seeing  the  man  sick  of  the  palsy  at  His  feet,  rewarded 
the  faith  of  those  who  had  brought  him.  His  intention 
was  to  cure  the  spiritual  disease  of  the  man,  before 
giving  him  the  health  of  the  body.  And  Jesus ,  seeing  their 
faith ,  said  to  the  man  sick  of  the  palsy  :  Be  of  good  heart .  By 
these  words  you  understand,  beloved  brethren,  that  God 
does  not  consult  the  will  of  the  wicked,  nor  consider  the 


EIGHTEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  335 


faith  of  the  ignorant ;  neither  does  He  look  on  the  foolish 
desires  of  one  only  sighing  for  corporal  health  ;  that  He 
is  ready  to  help  a  generous  and  living  faith,  and  refuses 
nothing  to  a  will  conformable  to  His  own  Will.  You 
know  that  a  physician  does  not  care  much  about  the  will 
of  his  patients,  that  he  does  not  even  inquire  about  their 
wishes  and  desires,  knowing  that  too  often  they  wish  for 
things  that  would  be  injurious  to  them.  In  all  serious¬ 
ness  he  attacks  the  disease,  sometimes  prescribes  the 
most  bitter  medicines,  being  convinced  that  his  patients, 
once  restored  to  health,  will  be  most  grateful  to  him  for 
not  having  yielded  to  their  foolish  desires  during  their 
illness.  Now,  since  a  man  has  the  courage  to  expose 
himself  to  the  anger  and  insults  of  the  patients  he  wishes 
to  save  from  death,  shall  we  be  surprised  at  this  consol¬ 
ing  fact,  that  Jesus,  the  true  Physician  of  souls,  in  His 
infinite  love  for  them,  is  ready  to  .  deliver  them,  against 
their  own  will,  from  the  abominable  disease  of  sin,  and 
to  give  them  that  spiritual  health,  the  value  of  which 
they  cannot  recognise  as  long  as  they  remain  in  the  folly 
of  their  sinful  passions  ?  Would  to  God  that  we  could 
probe  the  wounds  of  our  soul !  Then  we  should  see  it 
bare  and  without  any  virtue  amidst  the  surrounding 
vices.  Then  our  Redeemer  would  let  His  light  shine 
into  our  darkness,  and  we  should  be  convinced  that  He 
is  continually  trying  by  His  grace  to  awaken  us,  and  to 
persuade  us  to  let  ourselves  be  cured,  taking  the  medicines 
offered  by  His  helping  hand  in  spite  of  our  dislike  and 
refusal. 

IV.  By  saying  to  the  man  sick  of  the  palsy  that  his 
sins  were  forgiven,  our  Lord  wished  to  show  that  under 
the  veil  of  His  humanity  He  was  true  God.  His  miracles 
made  Him  to  be  recognised  as  a  Prophet,  for  by  them 
He  was  like  to  the  prophets,  who  had  wrought  such 


336 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


wonderful  things  through  His  Divine  assistance.  But 
by  forgiving  sins  He  visibly  manifested  His  Divinity, 
since  no  one  but  God  has  the  power  to  forgive  sins. 
The  envy  and  hatred  of  the  Pharisees  are  the  strongest 
proof  of  this ;  for  when  hearing  the  Son  of  God  say  to 
the  man  that  his  sins  were  forgiven,  they  were  angry, 
and  said  within  themselves  :  He  blasphemeth.  Who  can  forgive 
sins  but  God  alone?  (Luke  v.  21).  O  ye  foolish  Pharisees  ! 
By  your  words  you  show  that  wisdom  and  ignorance  are 
united  in  your  minds  ;  you  confess-  the  truth,  yet  you 
deny  it ;  you  accuse  the  Redeemer,  and  at  the  same  time 
you  justify  Him.  If  it  be  true,  and  it  is  true,  as  you  con¬ 
fess,  that  God  alone  can  forgive  sins,  why  do  you  refuse 
to  recognise  Jesus  as  your  God,  He  Who  mercifully  takes 
away  the  sins  of  men  ?  Behold  the  Lamb  of  God ,  said 
John  the  Baptist,  behold  Him  Who  taketh  away  the  sin  of 
the  world  (John  i.  29).  Do  you  still  look  for  the  proofs  of 
this  mystery  so  incomprehensible  to  you  ?  then  search 
for  it  in  your  own  hearts.  For,  if  you  seriously  consider 
the  fact  that  this  Divine  Man  discovers  all  that  is  in  the 
inmost  of  your  hearts ;  that  He  knows  your  most  hidden 
thoughts ;  that  He  reveals  before  the  eyes  of  men  your 
soul’s  intentions  begotten  in  darkness  ;  then  you  will 
easily  understand  that  the  fulness  of  the  Godhead  dwells 
in  Jesus.  Thus,  our  Saviour  deeply  scrutinized  the  con¬ 
sciences  of  the  Pharisees,  revealed  their  intentions,  and 
proved  His  Divinity.  Yet,  to  give  once  more  a  proof  of 
His  Divine  power,  He  granted  health  and  strength  of 
body  to  the  man  sick  of  the  palsy.  Arise ,  tahe  up  thy  bed 
and  go  into  thy  house.  And,  saying  this,  He  wished  to 
teach  him  the  duty  of  beginning  now  a  different — that  is, 
a  better — life.  He  was  to  take  up  the  bed  on  which  he 
had  been  carried,  as  a  sign  of  the  miraculous  manner  in 
which  he  was  cured.  This  bed,  also,  the  witness  of  his 


NINETEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  337 

sufferings,  was  to  give  testimony  to  Him  Who  wrought 
the  miracle,  and  by  its  heaviness  prove  the  health  and 
strength  of  the  man  now  cured.  Lastly,  by  telling  this 
man  to  go  into  his  house ,  our  Lord  desired  to  give  him  to 
understand  that,  after  receiving  the  gift  of  the  Christian 
faith,  he  was  not  to  return  to  the  ways  of  the  unbelieving 
Jews. 

NINETEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Matt.  xxii.  1-14.  At  that  time:  Jesus  spoke 
to  the  chief  priests  and  Pharisees  in  parables,  saying : 
The  kingdom  of  heaven  is  likened  to  a  king,  who  made  a 
marriage  for  his  son.  And  he  sent  his  servants  to  call 
them  that  were  invited  to  the  marriage ;  and  they  would 
not  come.  Again  he  sent  other  servants,  saying :  Tell 
them  that  were  invited :  Behold  I  have  prepared  my 
dinner  ;  my  beeves  and  fatlings  are  killed,  and  all  things 
are  ready  :  come  ye  to  the  marriage.  But  they  neglected, 
and  went  their  ways,  one  to  his  farm  and  another  to  his 
merchandise.  And  the  rest  laid  hands  on  his  servants, 
and,  having  treated  them  contumeliously,  put  them  to 
death.  But  when  the  king  had  heard  of  it,  he  was 
angry,  and,  sending  his  armies,  he  destroyed  those 
murderers,  and  burnt  their  city.  Then  he  said  to  his 
servants  :  The  marriage,  indeed,  is  ready  ;  but  they  that 
were  invited  were  not  worthy.  Go  ye,  therefore,  into 
the  highways,  and  as  many  as  you  shall  find,  call  to  the 
marriage.  And  his  servants,  going  forth  into  the  ways, 
gathered  together  all  they  found,  both  bad  and  good ;  and 
the  marriage  was  filled  with  guests.  And  the  king  went 
in  to  see  the  guests,  and  he  saw  there  a  man  who  had  not 
on  a  wedding  garment.  And  he  saith  to  him :  Friend, 
how  earnest  thou  in  hither,  not  having  on  a  wedding 


22 


33&  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

garment  ?  But  he  was  silent.  Then  the  king  said  to 
the  waiters :  Bind  his  hands  and  his  feet,  and  cast  him 
into  the  exterior  darkness  ;  there  shall  be  weeping  and 
gnashing  of  teeth.  For  many  are  called,  but  few  are 
chosen. 

HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  THE 
CHURCH  OF  THE  HOLY  MARTYR  CLEMENT.  . 

Thirty-eighth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  I  remember  having  often  said  that  in  the  holy 
Gospel  the  Church  of  God,  as  she  is  now,  is  called  the 
kingdom  of  heaven,  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  indeed 
the  assembly  of  the  just.  The  Lord  said  by  the  mouth 
of  His  prophet :  Heaven  is  My  throne  (Isa.  lxvi.  i).  Solo¬ 
mon  says :  The  soul  of  the  just  is  the  throne  of  wisdom 
( Wisd.  vii.  27)  ;  and  Paul  says :  Christ  is  the  power  of 
God  and  the  wisdom  of  God  (1  Cor.  i.  24).  From  these 
passages  we  may  clearly  infer  that,  if  wisdom  be  God, 
and  wisdom’s  throne  the  soul  of  the  just,  and  God’s  throne 
the  heaven,  then  the  soul  of  the  just  is  heaven.  Hence 
the  Psalmist,  speaking  of  holy  preachers,  says  :  The 
heavens  show  forth  the  glory  of  God  (Ps.  xviii.  1).  The 
kingdom  of  heaven,  therefore,  is  the  Church  of  the  just — 
that  is,  of  those  whose  hearts  seek  not  for  anything  upon 
earth,  but  who  so  sigh  for  the  things  that  are  above,  that 
God  does  already  reign  in  them,  as  He  reigns  in  heaven. 
Let  it,  then,  be  said :  The  kingdom  of  heaven  is  likened  to  a 
king ,  who  made  a  marriage  for  his  son .  You  understand, 
beloved  brethren,  Who  is  this  Royal  Father  of  a  Royal 
Son.  It  is  indeed  He  to  Whom  the  Psalmist  says  :  Give 
to  the  King  Thy  judgment,  X)  God^  and  to  the  King's  son  Thy 
justice  (Ps.  lxxi.  2) — Who  made  a  marriage  for  His  Son. 
God  the  Father  made  a  marriage  for  God  the  Son,  when 


NINETEENTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  339 


He  wedded  Him  to  the  human  nature  in  the  womb  of  the 
Virgin,  when  He  willed  that  He,  Who  is  God  before  all 
ages,  should  become  Man  in  the  end  of  the  ages. 

II.  The  union  of  two  persons  forms  the  marriage  union  ; 
but  God  forbid  that  we  should  imagine  that  the  one 
Person  of  our  Redeemer  Jesus  Christ,  Who  is  both  God 
and  Man,  is  formed  by  the  union  of  a  human  person 
with  a  Divine  Person.  We  profess  that  He  is  of  and  in 
two  natures ;  but  we  shrink  from  the  blasphemy  of  say¬ 
ing  that  in  Him  there  are  two  persons.  It  will  be  clearer 
and  safer  to  say  that  the  marriage  made  by  the  Father 
for  His  Royal  Son,  was  the  joining  Him,  through  the 
mystery  of  the  Incarnation,  to  His  mystic  Bride,  the 
Holy  Church,  and  that  the  womb  of  the  Virgin  Mother 
was  the  bridal  chamber  in  which  this  union  took  place. 
Hence  it  is  that  the  Psalmist  says :  He  hath  set  His 
tabernacle  in  the  sun ,  and  He  as  a  bridegroom  coming  out  of  His 
bride-chamber  (Ps.  xviii.  6).  Indeed,  the  Divine  Redeemer 
came  out  of  the  purest  womb  of  the  Virgin,  to  unite 
Himself  with  the  Church  chosen  by  Him  as  His  Bride. 
He  sent  out  His  servants  to  call  His  friends  that  were 
invited  to  the  marriage.  He  sent  them  out  twice,  to  give 
us  to  understand  that  the  preachers  of  the  great  mystery 
of  the  Incarnation  of  the  Son  of  God  were  first  the 
prophets  and  after  them  the  Apostles.  The  former  an¬ 
nounced  this  great  mystery  in  prophecies  only,  whilst 
the  latter  preached  to  the  nations  announcing  the  same, 
yet  being  now  fulfilled.  The  proof  that  the  first  invited 
refused  to  come  to  the  marriage  feast  is  contained  in  the 
words  addressed  to  the  second  :  Behold ,  I  have  prepared  my 
dinner ;  my  beeves  and  fatlings  are  killed ,  and  all  things  are 
ready .  Come  ye  to  the  marriage .  No  mention  of  this  fact 
was  made  in  the  first  invitation ;  but  afterwards  it  was 
said  that  the  beeves  and  fatlings  were  killed,  that  every - 

22 — 2 


340 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


thing  was  ready.  For  when  we  refuse  to  hear  the  words 
of  God,  He  shows  us  by  examples  that,  what  we  think 
impossible,  becomes  easy,  as  soon  as  we  understand  that 
others  were  able  to  do  the  things  to  which  He  invites  us. 

III.  The  invited  guests  neglected  the  invitation,  accord¬ 
ing  to  the  words  of  the  Gospel,  and  went  their  ways ,  one  to 
his  farm ,  and  another  to  his  merchandise .  The  one  going  to 
his  farm  is  a  type  of  those  persons  entirely  bent  on  this 
world’s  business,  whilst  the  other  one  represents  those 
who  give  themselves  up  to  temporal  gains  and  profits. 
Now,  since  these  two  kinds  of  persons  are  intent  on  the 
cares  and  goods  of  this  world  only,  they  give  no  thought 
to  the  mystery  of  God  made  Man  for  the  salvation  of 
man  ;  neither  do  they  think  of  conforming  their  lives  to  the 
life  of  Jesus.  It  is,  therefore,  on  account  of  these  worldly 
goods  and  worldly  interests  that  they  refuse  to  come  to 
the  marriage.  But  what  is  still  worse,  they  not  only 
refuse  to  come,  but  despise  the  grace  of  God  inviting 
them  ;  for  it  is  said  :  They  laid  hands  on  His  servants ,  and , 
having  treated  them  contumeliously ,  put  them  to  death . 

f  V.  But  when  the  King  had  heard  of  it ,  He  was  angry ,  and , 
sending  His  armies ,  He  destroyed  those  murderers ,  and  burnt  their 
city .  He  strikes  the  persecutors,  and  destroys  the  mur¬ 
derers.  He  burns  their  city — that  is,  the  bodies,  in  which 
dwell  these  sinful  souls,  will  be  cast  with  them,  into  the 
everlasting  fire.  The  armies,  sent  to  destroy  the  mur¬ 
derers,  are  the  Angels  of  God  sent  with  His  thunderbolts 
to  take  revenge.  For  what  are  the  hosts  of  Angels  but  the 
armies  of  our  eternal  King  ?  Hence  God  is  called  the 
Lord  of  Sabaoth,  and  Sabaoth  means  hosts — the  Lord  of 
hosts  (Isa.  i.  9).  The  armies  of  God  are  composed  of 
the  countless  multitudes  of  Angels  ordered  by  God  to 
execute  the  sentences  pronounced  against  His  enemies, 
and  to  destroy  them.  Our  fathers  heard  the  Son  of  God 


NINETEENTH  SUNDA  Y  AFTER  PENTECOST  341 

threatening  the  world  with  these  terrible  punishments, 
and  we,  their  children,  have  witnessed  their  fulfilment. 
Where  are  now  the  cruel  persecutors  of  so  many  holy 
Martyrs  ?  Where  are  the  proud  princes  who  lifted  up 
their  arrogant  heads  against  God,  and  boasted  of  their 
worldly  glory  ?  By  the  death  of  the  holy  Martyrs  the 
Christian  faith  has  been  spread  abroad  throughout  the 
whole  world ;  whereas  the  remembrance  even  of  their 
persecutors  has  disappeared  with  their  sudden  death. 
Behold  the  terrible  effects  of  God’s  wrath,  which  is  spoken 
of  in  the  parables  of  our  Lord  ! 

V.  And  the  King,  Who  invites  guests  to  the  marriage 
of  His  Son,  will  easily  fill  the  places  of  those  who  refuse 
to  come.  For  should  the  word  of  God  remain  fruitless  in 
many,  it  will  yet  find  docile  and  ready  hearts  making 
good  use  of  it.  We  read :  Then  he  said  to  his  servants  : 
The  mavviage  indeed  is  ready ,  but  they  that  were  invited  were 
not  worthy .  Go  ye,  therefore ,  into  the  highways  ;  and  as  many 
as  you  shall  find ,  call  to  the  marriage .  And  our  Lord  con¬ 
tinues  in  the  parable  :  And  his  servants ,  going  forth  into  the 
ways ,  gathered  together  all  they  found ,  both  bad  and  good ,  and 
the  marriage  was  filled  with  guests.  In  these  different  kinds 
of  persons  brought  to  the  marriage  is  seen  an  image  of 
the  Church,  including  both  good  and  bad  Christians. 
Are  you  among  the  good  ?  then  during  all  your  life  bear 
generously  the  presence  of  the  bad.  Be  not  frightened 
at  the  enormous  number  of  the  wicked,  nor  saddened  by 
the  small  number  of  the  just ;  for  wide  is  the  gate  and  broad 
the  way  that  leadeth  to  destruction ,  and  many  there  are  who  go 
in  thereat.  How  narrow  is  the  gate ,  and  strait  is  the  way  that 
leadeth  to  life ;  and  few  there  are  that  find  it!  (Matt.  vii.  13, 14). 

VI.  The  King ,  says  the  Gospel,  went  in  to  see  the  guests,  and 
he  saw  there  a  man  who  had  not  on  a  wedding  garment.  What 
is  the  meaning  of  this  wedding  garment  ?  It  is  charity. 


342 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


He  that  came  to  the  marriage  without  a  wedding  gar¬ 
ment  had  indeed  the  true  faith,  but  he  had  not  charity. 
It  was  with  the  garment  of  love  that  the  Son  of  God 
came  to  celebrate  the  marriage  union  with  His  Bride, 
the  Church,  and  in  this  bond  of  love  He  continues  to  be 
united  with  His  elect.  Thus  St.  John  says  :  God  so  loved 
the  world ,  as  to  give  His  only  begotten  Son  (John  iii.  16).  Our 
Saviour,  having  come  to  us  in  love,  indicates  clearly 
enough  that  the  wedding  garment,  in  which  we  are  to 
appear  at  His  marriage-feast,  is  true  charity.  Those 
among  you,  who  believe  and  belong  to  the  communion  of 
the  Church,  but  have  not  charity,  are  in  the  marriage- hall 
indeed,  but  are  not  covered  with  the  wedding  garment. 
When  you  are  invited  to  a  wedding,  beloved  brethren,  do 
you  not  take  off  your  everyday  garments  and  put  on  your 
best  ?  By  this  you  intend  to  show  the  great  interest  you 
take  in  the  happiness  and  joy  of  the  bride  and  bridegroom. 
You  dare  not  appear  in  garments  by  which  you  would 
be  despised  by  the  other  guests.  Yet,  it  is  God  Who 
invites  you  to  His  marriage  feast,  and  you  appear  without 
the  garment  of  love.  Heaven  resounds  with  songs  of 
praise  of  the  angelic  choirs,  when  the  elect  are  received 
into  their  company ;  but  you,  assisting  by  faith  at  their 
festivities — you  are  not  ashamed  to  appear  without  the 
wedding  garment  of  love,  by  which  alone  you  find  favour 
with  God  and  His  Angels. 


TWENTIETH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  John  iv,  46-53.  At  that  time:  There  was  a 
certain  ruler,  whose  son  was  sick  at  Capharnaum.  He, 
having  heard  that  Jesus  was  come  from  Judea  into 
Galilee,  went  to  Him,  and  prayed  Him  to  come  down  and 


TWENTIETH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  343 

heal  his  son,  for  he  was  at  the  point  of  death.  Jesus 
therefore  said  unto  him  :  Unless  you  see  signs  and 
wonders,  you  believe  not.  The  ruler  saith  to  Him  :  Lord, 
come  down  before  that  my  son  die.  Jesus  saith  to  him  : 
Go  thy  way;  thy  son  liveth.  The  man  believed  the  word 
which  Jesus  said  to  him,  and  went  his  way.  And  as  he 
was  going  down,  his  servants  met  him,  and  they  brought 
word,  saying  that  his  son  lived.  He  asked,  therefore,  of 
them  the  hour  wherein  he  grew  better.  And  they  said  to 
him:  Yesterday  at  the  seventh  hour  the  fever  left  him. 
The  father,  therefore,  knew  that  it  was  at  the  same  hour 
that  Jesus  said  to  him :  Thy  son  liveth  ;  and  himself 
believed  and  his  whole  house, 

HOMILY  BY  POPE  ST.  GREGORY,  PREACHED  IN  TPIE 

CHURCH  OF  SS.  NEREUS  AND  ACHILLES  ON  THEIR 

FESTIVAL. 

Twenty-eighth  Homily  on  the  Gospels. 

I.  The  Gospel  lesson  which  you  have  just  heard,  my 
brethren,  stands  in  need  of  no  explanation.  .  However, 
lest  I  should  seem  to  pass  it  by  in  idle  silence,  I  will  say 
a  few  words  thereon,  but  that  rather  by  way  of  exhorta¬ 
tion  than  of  explanation.  Indeed,  there  seems  to  me  to 
be  but  one  point  calling  for  explanation,  namely,  this : 
When  the  ruler  came  to  Jesus  and  besought  Him  to 
come  down  and  heal  his  son,  how  is  it  that  he  heard 
Jesus  say  :  Unless  you  see  signs  and  wonders,  you  believe  not  ? 
The  very  fact  that  the  ruler  came  and  asked  Jesus  to  heal 
his  son  is  a  proof  that  he  believed.  Had  he  not  believed 
Him  to  be  a  Saviour,  he  would  not  have  asked  Him  to 
save  his  son.  Yet  Jesus  said:  Unless  you  see  signs  and 
wonders ,  you  believe  not.  He  had  not  seen  any  signs,  yet 
he  believed.  Now,  think  of  his  prayer,  and  you  will 


344 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


clearly  understand  wherein  his  faith  was  weak.  He 
prayed  Him  that  He  would  come  down  and  heal  his  son .  He 
asked  for  the  corporal  presence  of  Him  Who  is  spiritually 
present  everywhere.  He  did  not  believe  enough  in  Jesus, 
since  he  thought  His  bodily  presence  was  required  for 
the  healing  of  his  son.  Had  his  faith  been  perfect,  he 
would  doubtless  have  known  that  God  is  everywhere. 
His  faith  was,  therefore,  imperfect  for  attributing  the 
virtue  of  healing,  not  to  Christ’s  Majesty,  but  to  His 
bodily  presence.  Thus,  even  while  he  was  asking  for  his 
son’s  health,  his  faith  was  not  yet  sound.  He  believed 
concerning  Him,  Whom  he  had  come  to  ask,  that  He 
was  mighty  enough  to  save,  yet  he  thought  that  at  that 
very  moment  Jesus  was  absent  from  his  son.  But  the 
Lord,  being  asked  to  go,  showed  that  He  is  there, 
wherever  He  is  called  on ;  and  He  gave  health  by  a 
single  command,  He  Who  by  a  single  act  of  His  will  had 
created  all  things. 

II.  What  we  are  to  consider  in  this  case  is  the  answer 
given  by  Jesus,  on  another  occasion,  to  the  centurion 
asking  Him  to  heal  his  servant  grievously  tormented  by 
the  palsy.  According  to  the  Evangelist,  our  Lord  said  : 
I  will  come  and  heal  him  (Matt.  viii.  7).  How  is  it  that  our 
Lord,  being  asked  by  the  ruler  to  come  to  his  house  and 
heal  his  son,  refused  to  go,  whereas  He  promised  the 
centurion  to  go  down  and  heal  his  servant,  though  He 
had  not  been  asked  to  come  down  and  see  that  servant  ? 
The  reason  is  that  the  Lord  wished  to  put  down  our 
pride,  that  sees  and  esteems  in  others  their  dignities  and 
riches,  more  than  their  nature,  the  image  of  God.  Indeed, 
when  we  consider  man  in  the  things  without,  like  riches 
and  honours,  we  do  not  see  what  he  is  in  himself,  neither 
do  we  know  his  real  merit,  when  considering  only  his 
body,  that  seems  contemptible  on  account  of  its  infirmities. 


TWENTIETH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  34S 

Our  Saviour  judges  differently.  To  give  us  to  under¬ 
stand  that  whatsoever  seems  great  in  the  eyes  of  the 
world,  is  often  low  and  contemptible,  and  whatsoever  is 
despicable  in  the  estimation  of  the  worldly-minded,  is  not 
so  before  God,  He  goes  to  the  servant  of  the  centurion, 
whilst  refusing  to  visit  the  son  of  the  ruler. 

III.  Indeed,  should  we  be  asked  by  a  servant  to  go 
down  to  him,  our  pride  would  tell  us  not  to  do  such  a 
thing.  To  yield  to  his  prayer  would  be  to  lower  our¬ 
selves,  to  esteem  our  honour  very  little ;  certainly  such  a 
place  as  the  dwelling  of  an  humble  menial  does  not 
deserve  this  condescension.  Yet  there  we  see  God 
Himself  coming  down  from  heaven,  and  not  despising  to 
go  to  a  poor  servant,  whilst  we,  being  nothing  but  living 
dust,  feel  great  difficulty  in  humbling  ourselves.  We 
are  the  more  to  be  despised,  since,  wishing  to  guard  our 
honour  before  the  world,  we  fear  not  the  eyes  of  that 
Divine  Majesty  searching  the  thoughts  and  hearts  of 
men.  Hence  the  Son  of  God  said  to  the  Pharisees :  You 
are  they  who  justify  yourselves  before  men ;  but  God  knoweth 
your  hearts  ;  for  that  which  is  high  before  men ,  is  an  abomina¬ 
tion  before  God  (Luke  xvi.  15).  Carefully  consider  those 
words,  beloved  brethren.  If  it  is  true  that  the  things 
which  seem  great  to  men,  are  abominable  before  God, 
then  our  conclusion  will  be  that  our  thoughts  are  despised 
by  God,  as  much  as  they  are  esteemed  by  men.  Humility 
produces  a  different  effect,  since  it  makes  us  the  greater 
before  God,  the  less  we  are  considered  by  men.  Now  let 
us  look  at  our  doings ;  let  not  even  our  most  praise¬ 
worthy  undertakings  flatter  our  pride ;  neither  let  our 
vanity  be  tickled  by  honours  and  riches.  For  if  we  are 
puffed  up  by  our  possessions,  whatsoever  they  may  be,  we 
shall  be  despised  by  God.  Speaking  of  the  humble, 
the  Psalmist  says:  The  Lord  is  the  keeper  of  little  ones 


346 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


(Ps.  cxiv.  6).  The  little  ones  are  the  humble.  And, 
speaking  of  his  own  experience,  he  adds :  I  was  humbled , 
and  He  delivered  me  (ibid,). 

IV.  Now,  consider  these  truths  well,  beloved  brethren, 
and  carefully  ponder  on  them.  When  honouring  your 
brethren,  look  not  so  much  at  their  perishable  riches,  as 
at  the  fact  that  men  are  the  image  and  likeness  of  God, 
their  Creator.  Honour  them  for  the  sake  of  God.  Yet 
this  will  not  be  possible,  as  long  as  your  proud  thoughts 
are  not  banished  from  your  hearts.  He  that  esteems 
himself  on  account  of  passing  things  cannot  honour 
another  for  his  durable  goods.  Consider  as  nothing  what 
you  havey  but  think  of  what  you  are ,  for  the  world  you 
love  will  one  day  perish.  The  Saints,  before  whose  tomb 
we  are  now  standing,  despised  the  flowers  brought  forth 
by  the  world,  and  trampled  upon  them. .  A  long  life, 
good  health,  a  prosperous  state,  a  numerous  posterity, 
tranquillity  in  continual  peace,  were  flowers  at  which  their 
hearts  did  not  rejoice ;  they  blossomed  in  the  world,  but 
in  their  own  hearts  they  were  withered.  Like  a  tree 
drying  up  before  our  eyes,  the  world  is  getting  weaker 
and  darker,  yet  it  is  still  blossoming  in  our  hearts  and 
minds.  Everywhere  there  is  death,  everywhere  mourning, 
everywhere  desolation!  We  are  struck  from  all  sides; 
we  are  filled  with  bitterness ;  nevertheless,  with  lament¬ 
able  blindness,  we  desire  and  love  the  bitter  fruits  of 
carnal  concupiscence.  The  world  flies  away,  and  we  run 
after  it ;  it  is  shaken  under  our  feet,  and  we  cling  to  it ; 
and  since  we  cannot  prevent  its  fall,  we  still  take  hold  of 
it,  and  are  thrown  into  the  same  abyss.  At  the  beginning 
we  were  attracted  by  the  deceitful  world;  now,  seeing 
it  is  so  full  of  scourges  and  misery,  we  ought  to  be 
brought  back  to  God  by  this  very  world.  Reflect  upon 
all  this,  and  know  that  the  things  disappearing  in  time 


TWENTY-FIRST  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  347 

are  to  be  considered  as  nothing.  By  the  fall  of  all  the 
things  once  existing  in  the  world,  we  understand  that 
they  were  but  a  shadow  now  vanished,  for  they  are 
destroyed.  The  ruins  of  those  splendid  monuments,  which 
once  were  thought  of  as  defying  all  future  times,  clearly 
tell  us  that  nothing  is  diirable  in  this  world.  These  are 
subjects  worthy  of  your  meditations ;  such  thoughts  will 
encourage  you  to  have  only  contempt  for  worldly  great¬ 
ness,  and  to  desire  what  is  eternal.  They  will  also  help 
you  to  obtain  that  eternal  glory  revealed  to  you  by  faith 
through  the  grace  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  Who,  with  the 
Father  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  liveth  and  reigneth  one  God, 
world  without  end.  Amen. 

TWENTY-FIRST  SUNDAY  AFTER 
PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Matt,  xviii.  23-35.  At  that  time:  Jesus  spoke 
to  His  disciples  this  parable :  The  kingdom  of  heaven  is 
likened  to  a  king,  who  would  take  an  account  of  his 
servants.  And  when  he  had  begun  to  take  the  account, 
one  was  brought  to  him  that  owed  him  ten  thousand 
talents.  And  as  he  had  not  wherewith  to  pay  it,  his  lord 
commanded  that  he  should  be  sold,  and  his  wife  and 
children  and  all  that  he  had,  and  payment  to  be  made. 
But  that  servant,  falling  down,  besought  him,  saying : 
Have  patience  with  me,  and  I  will  pay  thee  all.  And 
the  lord  of  that  servant,  being  moved  with  pity,  let  him 
go,  and  forgave  him  the  debt.  But  when  that  servant 
was  gone  out,  he  found  one  of  his  fellow- servants  that 
owed  him  a  hundred  pence ;  and,  laying  hold  of  him,  he 
throttled  him,  saying  :  Pay  what  thou  owest.  And  his 
fellow-servant,  falling  down,  besought  him,  saying : 
Have  patience  with  me,  and  I  will  pay  thee  all.  And 


348 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


he  would  not ;  but  went  and  cast  him  into  prison,  till  he 
paid  the  debt.  Now,  his  fellow-servants,  seeing  what  was 
done,  were  very  much  grieved,  and  they  came  and  told 
their  lord  all  that  was  done.  Then  his  lord  called  him, 
and  said  to  him  :  Thou  wicked  servant,  I  forgave  thee 
all  the  debt,  because  thou  besoughtest  me ;  shouldst  not 
thou,  then,  have  had  compassion  also  on  thy  fellow- 
servant,  even  as  I  had  compassion  on  thee  ?  And  his 
lord,  being  angry,  delivered  him  to  the  torturers  until  he 
paid  all  the  debt.  So  also  shall  My  heavenly  Father  do 
to  you,  if  you  forgive  not  every  one  his  brother  from  your 
heart. 


HOMILY  BY  ST.  JEROME,  PRIEST. 

Comment,  on  Matthew  xviii,,  Book  iii, 

I.  It  is  a  usual  way  with  the  Syrians,  and  especially 
with  the  inhabitants  of  Palestine,  to  illustrate  their  dis¬ 
courses  with  parables,  so  that  what  the  hearers  may  not 
be  able  to  understand  so  easily  when  spoken  plainly, 
they  may  catch  by  the  means  of  comparisons  and 
example.  Thus  our  Lord  made  use  of  a  parable  to  teach 
St.  Peter.  By  an  allegory  about  a  king,  a  master,  and 
a  servant  who  owed  him  ten  thousand  talents,  and  who, 
entreating,  obtained  forgiveness  of  his  debt,  He  taught 
His  Apostle  how  it  was  his  duty  to  forgive  his  fellow- 
servants  their  comparatively  small  offences.  Indeed,  if 
that  royal  master  so  readily  forgave  his  servant  the  debt 
of  ten  thousand  talents,  should  not  his  servants  much 
more  readily  forgive  smaller  debts  to  their  fellow- 
servants  ? 

II.  In  order  to  put  this  more  clearly,  let  us  take  an 
example :  If  one  of  us  were  to  commit  adultery,  or 
murder,  or  sacrilege,  such  sins,  great  as  a  debt  of  ten 


TWENTY-FIRST  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  349 

thousand  talents,  would  be  forgiven  to  us  in  answer  to 
prayer,  if  we  also  from  our  heart  forgive  our  brethren 
their  offences  against  us.  But  if  we  refuse  to  forgive  a 
slight,  and  keep  up  a  continual  enmity  on  account  of  an 
unkind  word,  does  it  not  appear  just,  indeed,  that  we 
should  be  cast  into  prison,  and,  by  the  example  of  our 
own  actions,  be  shown  that  our  debt  is  not  forgiven 
to  us  ? 

III.  And  our  Lord  adds:  So  also  shall  My  heavenly 
Father  do  to  you  y  if  you  forgive  not  every  one  his  brother  from 
your  heart.  What  an  awful  sentence!  Yet  God’s  pur¬ 
pose  may  be  turned  and  changed.  But  if  we  will  not 
forgive  our  brethren  small  things,  God  will  not  forgive 
us  great  things.  And  if  we  forgive  them,  it  must  be  from 
our  heart.  Someone  may  say  :  I  have  nothing  against 
such  a  one  ;  he  knows  what  he  has  done,  and  God  will 
judge  him  for  it ;  I  do  not  care  what  he  is  doing  ;  I  have 
forgiven  him.  But  the  Lord’s  sentence  is  clear,  and  He 
destroys  such  simulation  of  feigned  peace,  when  He  says  : 
So  also  shall  My  heavenly  Father  do  to  you ,  if  you  forgive  not 
every  one  his  brother  from  your  heart . 

TWENTY-SECOND  SUNDAY  AFTER 
PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Matt.  xxii.  15-21.  At  that  time:  The  Pharisees, 
going,  consulted  among  themselves  how  to  ensnare  Jesus 
in  His  speech.  And  they  sent  to  Him  their  disciples, 
with  the  Herodians,  saying  :  Master,  we  know  that  Thou 
art  a  true  speaker,  and  teachest  the  way  of  God  in  truth, 
neither  carest  Thou  for  any  man ;  for  Thou  dost  not 
regard  the  person  of  man.  Tell  us,  therefore,  what  dost 
Thou  think,  is  it  lawful  to  give  tribute  to  Caesar,  or  not  ? 
But  Jesus,  knowing  their  wickedness,  said  :  Why  do  you 


350 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


tempt  Me,  ye  hypocrites  ?  Show  Me  the  coin  of  the 
tribute.  And  they  offered  Him  a  penny.  And  Jesus 
saith  to  them :  Whose  image  and  inscription  is  this  ? 
They  say  to  Him :  Caesar’s.  Then  He  saith  to  them  : 
Render,  therefore,  to  Caesar  the  things  that  are  Caesar’s, 
and  to  God  the  things  that  are  God’s. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  HILARY,  BISHOP. 

Comment,  on  Matthew,  Can.  23. 

I.  Oftentimes  the  Pharisees  had  been  put  to  confusion, 
and  could  not  find  any  cause  to  accuse  Him  of  anything 
that  He  had  hitherto  said  or  done.  Though  His  words 
and  actions  were  faultless,  these  men,  still  from  spite,  set 
themselves  to  seek  in  every  direction  for  some  cause  to 
accuse  Him.  They  knew  that  He  was  calling  all  to  turn 
away  from  the  corruption  of  the  world  and  the  super¬ 
stitious  practices  of  devotion  invented  by  men,  and  to  fix 
their  thoughts  and  hopes  upon  His  kingdom  of  heaven. 
Therefore  the  Pharisees  arranged  a  question  calculated- 
to  entrap  Him  into  an  offence  against  the  civil  govern¬ 
ment,  namely  :  Is  it  lawful  to  give  tribute  to  Caesar  or  not  ? 
But  since  there  is  nothing  in  the  heart  of  man  that  God 
does  not  see,  Jesus ,  knowing  their  wickedness ,  said  :  Why  do 
you  tempt  Me ,  ye  hypocrites  ?  Show  Me  the  coin  of  the  tribute . 
And  they  offered  Him  a  penny .  And  Jesus  said  to  them: 
Whose  image  and  inscription  is  this  ?  They  said  to  Him  : 
C&sar's,  Then  He  saith  to  them  :  Render ,  therefore ,  to  Ccesar 
the  things  that  are  Casar's ,  and  to  God  the  things  that  are 
God's* 

II.  How  wonderful  this  answer,  and  how  perfect  the 
fulfilment  of  the  prescribed  Divine  Law  !  So  beautifully 
does  He  here  indicate  the  middle  way  between  not  caring 
for  the  things  of  the  world,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the 


TWENTY-SECOND  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  351 

offence  of  injuring  Caesar,  on  the  other,  that  He  proves 
the  perfect  freedom  of  minds,  however  devoted  to  God,  to 
discharge  all  human  duties  by  commanding  them  to 
render  to  Caesar  the  things  that  are  Caesar’s.  If  we 
possess  nothing  that  is  Caesar’s,  we  are  not  bound  to 
render  anything  to  him  ;  but  since  we  are  concerned  with 
the  things  which  are  his,  since  we  make  justly  use  of  his 
power,  and  are  subject  to  him  as  paid  servants  to  take 
care  of  property  not  our  own,  we  cannot  question  our 
duty  to  render  to  Caesar  the  things  that  are  Caesar’s. 
But  all  of  us  are  always  bound  to  render  to  God  the 
things  that  are  God’s — that  is,  our  body,  our  soul,  and 
our  will.  These  things  we  hold  from  Him,  for  He  is  our 
Creator.  It  is,  therefore,  just  and  meet  that  those  who 
acknowledge  that  they  owe  to  Him  their  being,  life,  and 
preservation,  should  render  to  Hini  all  that  they  are  and 
have. 


TWENTY-THIRD  SUNDAY  AFTER 
PENTECOST. 

Gospel:  Matt.  ix.  18-26.  At  that  time;  As  Jesus  was 
speaking  to  the  multitude;  behold  a  certain  ruler  came 
up  and  adored  Him,  saying  :  Lord,  my  daughter  is  even 
now  dead ;  but  come,  lay  Thy  hand  upon  her,  and  she 
will  live.  And  Jesus,  rising  up,  followed  him  with  His 
disciples.  And  behold  a  woman  who  was  troubled  with 
an  issue  of  blood  twelve  years,  came  behind  Him,  and 
touched  the  hem  of  His  garment.  For  she  said  within 
herself :  If  I  shall  touch  only  His  garment,  I  shall  be 
healed.  But  Jesus,  turning  and  seeing  her,  said  :  Be  of 
good  heart,  daughter ;  thy  faith  hath  made  thee  whole. 
And  the  woman  was  made  whole  from  that  hour.  And 
when  Jesus  was  come  into  the  house  of  the  ruler,  and 


352  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

saw  the  minstrels  and  the  multitude  making  a  rout,  He 
said :  Give  place,  for  the  girl  is  not  dead,  but  sleepeth. 
And  they  laughed  Him  to  scorn.  And  when  the  multi¬ 
tude  was  put  forth,  He  went  in,  and  took  her  by  the  hand. 
And  the  maid  arose.  And  the  fame  hereof  went  abroad 
into  all  the  country. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  JEROME,  PRIEST. 

Comment,  on  Matthew  ix.,  Book  i.,  Chap.  ix. 

I.  This  is  the  eighth  miracle  wrought  by  Jesus,  when 
a  certain  ruler,  desiring  not  to  be  kept  out  of  the  true 
circumcision,  besought  Him  to  recall  his  daughter  to  life. 
The  ceremony  of  circumcision,  which  usually  took  place 
on  the  eighth  day  after  the  birth,  seems  to  be  indicated 

t 

by  this  miracle.  Jairus,  the  ruler  of  the  synagogue,  cer¬ 
tainly  deserved  the  preference ;  but  a  woman,  diseased 
with  an  issue  of  blood,  thrust  herself  in,  and  her  own  cure 
occupies  the  eighth  place,  so  that  the  resurrection  of  the 
ruler’s  daughter  is  postponed,  and  made  the  ninth  in  the 
enumeration.  Indeed,  it  seems  that  by  this  case  our 
Saviour  wished  to  call  our  attention  to  the  vocation  of 
the  Gentiles;  for  we  read  in  the  Psalms:  Ambassadors 
shall  come  out  of  Egypt;  Ethiopia  shall  soon  stretch  out  her 
hands  to  God  (Ps.  lxvii.  32).  A  great  mystery,  spoken  of 
by  the  Apostle,  saying :  Blindness  in  part  has  happened  to 
Israel ,  until  the  fulness  of  the  Gentiles  should  come  in.  And  so 
all  Israel  should  be  saved ,  as  it  is  written  :  There  shall  come 
out  of  Sion  He  that  shall  deliver ,  and  shall  turn  away  ungodli¬ 
ness  from  Jacob  (Rom.  xi.  25,  26). 

II.  And  behold  a  woman  who  was  troubled  with  an  issue,  of 
blood  twelve  years ,  came  behind  Him ,  and  touched  the  hem  of  His 
garment.  Now,  compare  these  two  miracles  in  this 
Gospel:  the  first,  a  woman  troubled  with  her  disease 


TWENTY-THIRD  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  353 

for  twelve  years ;  the  second,  the  resurrection  of  the 
daughter  of  Jairus  who,  according  to  St.  Luke  (viii.  42), 
was  twelve  years  old ;  and  you  will  come  to  the  con¬ 
clusion  that  the  woman,  a  type  of  the  Gentiles,  had 
been  diseased  for  the  same  time  that  the  Jewish  nation, 
typified  by  the  ruler’s  daughter,  had  been  living  in 
faith.  It  is  only  by  comparing  good  with  evil — that 
is,  idolatry — that  we  see  the  hideousness  of  the  latter. 
Note  also  that  this  woman  with  the  issue  of  blood 
came  to  our  Lord,  not  in  a  house  nor  in  a  city,  for 
such  as  she  were  by  the  law  banished  out  of  cities 
(Lev.  xv.  25),  but  in  the  way,  as  He  walked.  Thus  our 
Lord  healed  one  even  whilst  He  was  on  the  road  to  heal 
another.  Whence  the  Apostles  said:  To  you  it  behoved 
us  first  to  speak  the  word  of  God ;  but  because  you  reject  it , 
and  judge  yourselves  unworthy  of  eternal  life ,  behold  we  turn 
to  the  Gentiles .  For  so  the  Lord  has  commanded  us :  I 
have  set  thee  to  be  the  light  of  the  Gentiles ,  that  thou  mayest 
be  for  salvation  unto  the  utmost  parts  of  the  earth  (Acts  xiii. 
46, 47). 

III.  According  to  the  Law,  whosoever  touched  a  woman 
with  an  issue  of  blood  was  declared  unclean.  Here,  how¬ 
ever,  we  see  a  woman  touch  Jesus  to  be  cured  of  that 
issue  by  which  she  seemed  to  be  unclean.  Be  of  good 
heart ,  daughter ,  said  Jesus  ;  thy  faith  hath  made  thee  whole . 
Our  Saviour  calls  her  daughter ,  and  justly,  on  account  of 
her  faith,  by  which  she  was  cured.  Note,  again,  our 
Lord  did  not  say  to  the  woman  that  her  faith  would 
make  her  whole — that  is,  clean — but  thy  faith  hath  made 
thee  whole .  It  was  to  give  her  to  understand  that,  as  soon 
as  she  believed,  she  was  cured.  And  when  Jesus  was  come 
into  the  house  of  the  ruler ,  and  saw  the  minstrels  and  the  multi¬ 
tude  making  a  rout ,  He  said.  The  deceased  daughter  of 
Jairus  was  the  type  of  the  Jewish  nation,  even  now,  after 

23 


354 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


so  many  years,  in  a  state  of  death.  The  Rabbis, 
entrusted  with  the  instruction  of  that  nation,  may  be 
compared  to  the  minstrels  playing  a  mournful  and  use¬ 
less  tune.  The  Jews,  as  we  know,  are  only  a  noisy 
society  of  infidels,  not  of  believers  ;  and  when  Jesus  said, 
Give  place,  for  the  girl  is  not  dead,  but  sleepeth,  He  wished  to 
teach  us  that  every  being,  under  the  dominion  of  the 
living  God,  is  alive.  And  when  the  multitude  was  put  forth, 
He  went  in.  Indeed,  these  people,  laughing  to  scorn  the 
One  Who  had  power  to  give  life,  were  not  worthy  to  assist 
at  the  miraculous  resurrection  of  this  maiden. 

IV.  Finally,  consider  the  last  point  of  likeness  between 
the  Jewish  nation  and  the  ruler’s  daughter  who,  being 
dead,  received  life.  He  took  her  by  the  hand.  And  the  maid 
arose.  And  the  fame  thereof  went  abroad  into  all  the  country. 
The  synagogue,  typified  by  this  daughter,  is  dead ;  for 
her  sinful  hands  are  covered  with  the  blood  shed  by  the 
Jews.  To  rise  from  that  cleath  her  stained  hands  must 
be  washed  in  the  same  innocent  Blood  of  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Author  of  all  life. 

TWENTY-FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTE¬ 
COST. 

Gospel:  Matt.  xxiv.  15-35.  At  that  time:  Jesus  said 
to  His  disciples :  When  you  shall  see  the  abomina¬ 
tion  of  desolation,  which  was  spoken  of  by  Daniel  the 
Prophet,  standing  in  the  holy  place :  he  that  readeth  let 
him  understand.  Then  they  that  are  in  Judea,  let  them 
flee  to  the  mountains ;  and  he  that  is  on  the  house-top, 
let  him  not  come  down  to  take  anything  out  of  the  house ; 
and  he  that  is  in  the  field,  let  him  not  go  back  to  take  his 
coat.  And  woe  to  them  that  are  with  child,  and  that  give 
suck  in  those  days.  But  pray  that  your  flight  be  not  in 


TWENTY-FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  355 

the  winter,  nor  on  the  Sabbath.  For  there  shall  be 
then  great  tribulation,  such  as  hath  not  been  from  the 
beginning  of  the  world  until  now,  neither  shall  be.  And 
unless  those  days  had  been  shortened,  no  flesh  should  be 
saved :  but  for  the  sake  of  the  elect,  those  days  shall  be 
shortened.  Then  if  any  man  shall  say  unto  you  :  Lo ! 
here  is  Christ,  or  there,  do  not  believe  him.  For  there 
shall  arise  false  Christs,  and  false  prophets,  and  shall 
show  great  signs  and  wonders,  insomuch  as  to  deceive 
(if  possible)  even  the  elect.  Behold  I  have  told  it  to 
you,  beforehand.  If  therefore  they  shall  say  to  you: 
Behold  he  is  in  the  desert,  go  ye  not  out :  Behold  he  is 
in  the  closets,  believe  it  not.  For  as  lightning  cometh 
out  of  the  east,  and  appeareth  even  unto  the  west :  so 
shall  also  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man  be.  Whereso¬ 
ever  the  body  shall  be,  there  shall  the  eagles  also  be 
gathered  together.  And  immediately  after  the  tribulation 
of  those  days,  the  sun  shall  be  darkened,  and  the  moon 
shall  not  give  her  light,  and  the  stars  shall  fall  from 
heaven,  and  the  powers  of  the  heavens  shall  be  moved;  and 
there  shall  appear  the  sign  of  the  Son  of  Man  in  heaven  ; 
and  then  shall  all  tribes  of  the  earth  mourn  ;  and  they 
shall  see  the  Son  of  Man  coming  in  the  clouds  of  heaven 
with  much  power  and  majesty.  And  He  shall  send  His 
•Angels  with  a  trumpet  and  a  great  voice ;  and  they  shall 
gather  together  His  elect  from  the  four  winds,  from  the 
farthest  parts  of  the  heavens  to  the  utmost  bounds  of 
them.  And  from  the  fig-tree  learn  a  parable  :  when  the 
branch  thereof  is  now  tender,  and  the  leaves  come  forth, 
you  know  that  summer  is  nigh.  So  you  also,  when  you 
shall  see  all  these  things,  know  ye  that  it  is  nigh,  even  at 
the  doors.  Amen,  I  say  to  you,  that  this  generation 
shall  not  pass,  till  these  things  be  done.  ‘  Heaven  and 
earth  shall  pass  away,  but  My  words  shall  not  pass  away. 

23—2 


356 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


HOMILY  BY  ST.  JEROME,  PRIEST. 

Comment,  on  Matthew  xxiv.,  Book  iv. 

I.  When  the  meaning  of  the  words  of  Holy  Scripture 
is  not  quite  clear,  it  is  a  sign  that  there  is  something 
mysterious  in  them.  In  Daniel,  the  prophet,  we  read  as 
follows  :  A  nd  in  the  half  of  the  week  the  victim  and  the  sacri¬ 
fice  shall  fail :  and  there  shall  be  in  the  temple  the  abomination 
of  desolation  :  and  the  desolation  shall  continue  even  to  the  con¬ 
summation ,  and  to  the  end  (Dan.  ix.  27).  It  is  of  the  same 
thing  that  the  Apostle  speaks,  saying  :  The  man  of  sin  is 
revealed ,  the  son  of  perdition ,  who  opposeth ,  and  is  lifted  up 
above  all  that  is  called  God,  or  that  is  worshipped ,  so  that  he 
sitteth  in  the  temple  of  God,  showing  himself  as  if  he  were  God , 
whose  coming  is  according  to  the  working  of  Satan ,  in  all  power, 
and  signs ,  and  lying  wonders ,  and  in  all  seduction  of  iniquity 
(2  Thess.  ii.  3-9).  This  prophecy  may  be  understood 
simply  of  the  Antichrist,  or  of  the  statue  of  Caesar,  set 
up  by  Pilate  in  the  temple,  or  also  of  the  statue  of  the 
Emperor  Hadrian  on  horseback,  which  has  been  stand¬ 
ing,  even  until  our  own  time,  upon  the  site  of  the  Holy 
of  Holies.  In  the  Old  Testament  the  word  abomination  is 
very  often  used  for  an  idol,  and  the  other  title,  desolation , 
is  added  to  indicate  an  idol  erected  upon  the  site  of  the 
desolate  and  ruined  temple. 

II.  Then  they  that  are  in  Judea,  let  them  flee  to  the  moun¬ 
tains  ;  and  he  that  is  on  the  house-top,  let  him  not  come  down  to 
take  anything  out  of  the  house  ;  and  he  that  is  in  the  field,  let 
him  not  go  back  to  take  his  coat .  We  may  also  understand 
by  the  abomination*  of  desolation  any  perverse  doctrine, 
and  when  we  see  such  a  thing  as  standing  in  the  holy 
place — that  is,  in  the  Church  of  God — and  showing  itself 
that  it  is  God — that  is,  pretending  that  it  is  His  revealed 


TWENTY-FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  357 

truth — then  will  be  the  time  when  we  must  flee  from 
Judea  into  the  mountains — that  is,  to  leave  the  letter 
that  passes  away  and  all  appearance  of  Jewish  supersti¬ 
tion,  and  to  hasten  to  the  everlasting  hills ,  from  whence 
God  does  wondrously  cause  His  light  to  shine  forth 
(Ps.  lxxv.  5).  Then  it  will  be  our  duty  to  find  ourselves 
under  a  roof  and  in  a  house,  wherethrough  the  darts  of  the 
devil  can  never  pierce  to  strike  us,  and  not  to  come  down 
to  take  anything  out  of  the  house  of  our  old  conversation, 
or  to  have  regard  to  those  things  which  are  behind  us. 
But  rather  to  sow  in  the  field  of  the  spiritual  Scriptures, 
that  we  may  reap  therefrom  a  plentiful  harvest ;  neither 
to  have  two  coats,  a  thing  forbidden  to  the  Apostles 
(Matt.  x.  10).  And  woe  to  them  that  are  with  child ,  and  give 
such  in  these  days .  Woe  to  those  souls  that  have  not 
brought  forth  the  fruits  of  virtue  which  make  the  perfect 
Christian ;  or  woe  to  those  weak  souls,  still  standing  in 
the  beginning  of  faith,  wanting  the  spiritual  food,  and 
who,  through  that  want,  are  in  this  abomination  of 
desolation.  The  words  may  also  be  explained  in  this 
way,  that,  when  the  conquered  city  of  Rome  will  be  the 
prey  of  tyrants,  or  when  the  persecution  of  the  Antichrist 
arises,  then  the  comfortless  mothers  will  not  know  how 
to  save  themselves,  because  of  their  being  with  child  or 
giving  suck.  But  pray  that  your  flight  be  not  in  the  winter , 
nor  on  the  Sabbath.  These  words  refer  either  to  the 
taking  of  the  city  of  Jerusalem,  under  the  Emperors 
Titus  and  Vespasian,  or  to  the  general  destruction  of  the 
whole  world.  Were  we  to  understand  them  as  meaning 
the  destruction  of  Jerusalem,  then  we  should  say  that 
it  will  be  a  great  misfortune  to  the  Jews  to  flee  from  the 
city  either  in  the  winter  or  on  the  Sabbath.  For,  in  the 
first  case  the  excessive  cold,  prevailing  in  the  deserts 
and  mountains,  would  prevent  the  fugitives  from  finding 


358 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


shelter  therein ;  whereas  in  the  second  case  the  Jews 
were  forbidden  by  the  Law  to  travel  on  the  Sabbath, 
therefore  certain  destruction  awaited  those  who  remained 
in  the  city.  Should  we  understand  these  words  as  mean¬ 
ing  the  end  of  the  world,  then  we  infer  that  by  the  winter 
our  Lord  meant  the  coldness  of  both  our  faith  in,  and 
our  love  for,  Him ;  and  that  by  the  word  ‘  Sabbath  *  He 
wished  to  urge  us  on  not  to  remain  idle  in  God’s  service, 
but  continually  to  make  progress  in  virtue  and  perfec¬ 
tion. 

III.  And  unless  those  days  had  been  shortened ,  no  flesh  should 
be  saved ;  but  for  the  sake  of  the  elect ,  those  days  shall  be 
shortened .  Let  us  not  believe,  as  some  pretended,  probably 
when  in  a  state  of  insanity,  that  the  different  parts  of  time 
shall  then  be  changed.  Those  sharing  such  opinion, 
forget  the  words  of  Holy  Scripture:  By  Thy  ordinance 
the  day  goes  on  (Ps.  cxviii.  91).  There  is  no  question  here 
about  the  measure  of  the  time,  which  remains  unalterable, 
but  about  the  number  of  the  days  that  is  to  be  shortened. 
For,  as  in  giving  His  blessing,  God  says :  I  will  fill  him 
with  length  of  days  (Ps.  xc.  16),  so  also  will  these  days 
be  shortened,  lest  by  their  great  number  the  faith  of  the 
elect  would  be  shaken.  And  Jesus  added:  Then  if  any 
man  shall  say  unto  you  :  Lo !  here  is  Christ ,  or  there ,  do  not 
believe  him .  These  words  may  perhaps  mean  what  we 
know  about  the  events  that  happened  at  the  time  of  the 
Jewish  captivity,  when  many  princes  of  that  people  called 
themselves  Christ ;  for  when  Jerusalem  was  besieged  by 
the  Romans,  there  were  three  parties  in  the  city,  each 
claiming  to  be  the  rightful  heir  to  the  old  kingdom. 
However,  it  will  be  safer  to  say  that  by  these  words  is 
meant  the  end  of  the  world.  For  there  shall  arise  false 
Christs ,  and  false  prophets ,  and  shall  show  great  signs •  and 
wonders ,  insomuch  as  to  deceive  (if  possible)  even  the  elect . 


TWENTY-FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  359 

Behold  I  have  told  it  to  you ,  beforehand.  As  I  said  before,  this 
may  refer  to  three  different  events,  namely,  to  the  siege 
of  Jerusalem  by  the  Romans,  or  to  the  end  of  the  world, 
or  also  to  the  stormy  assaults  of  heretics  against  the  true 
Church,  for  these  are  the  Antichrists  waging  war  against 
Christ,  under  the  exterior  appearance  of  seducting  and 
deceiving  science.  If  therefore  they  shall  say  to  you :  Behold 
he  is  in  the  desert ,  go  ye  not  out ;  Behold  he  is  in  the  closets , 
believe  it  not.  By  the  word  desert  we  understand  the  sects 
of  philosophers  and  the  false  religion  of  the  pagans,  who 
vainly  boast  of  announcing  the  truth  through  their 
mythical  doctrines.  The  closets ,  or  secret  chambers, 
mean  the  assemblies  of  the  heretics  trying  to  make  us 
believe  that  they  alone  are  capable  of  thoroughly  search¬ 
ing  and  explaining  the  Divine  mysteries.  Do  not  believe 
them,  neither  go  out  to  them.  It  is  specially  in  times  of 
persecutions  and  distress  that  false  prophets  make  their 
appearance,  and  try  to  deceive  us.  We  hear,  therefore, 
our  Lord  warning  us  not  to  listen  to  them.  For  as 
lightning  cometh  out  of  the  east,  and  appeareth  even  unto  the 
west :  so  shall  also  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man  be.  He 
means  to  say,  do  not  believe  that  the  Son  of  Man  is  in 
the  desert  of  the  pagans,  or  in  the  secret  chambers  of  the 
heretics;  for’ the  faith  of  the  Catholic  Church  is  shining 
from  the  east  to  the  west,  and  she  alone  can  show  to  the 
world  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God.  Again,  consider  that 
the  second  coming  of  Christ  will  not  be  like  His  first,  in 
humility,  but  in  glory  and  majesty.  It  would,  therefore, 
be  a  thoughtless  act  to  search  for  Him  in  the  darkness 
and  the  corners  of  the  earth,  since  by  His  splendour  and 
glory  He  will  be  then  the  astonishment  of  the  whole 
world. 

IV.  Wheresoever  the  body  shall  be,  there  shall  the  eagles  also 
be  gathered  together .  This  is  a  natural  fact,  seen  every 


360 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


day ;  yet,  however  common  it  may  seem,  in  it  appears 
the  image  of  Jesus  Christ.  Birds  of  prey — that  is,  eagles 
and  vultures — are  said  to  be  sensible  of  the  smell  of 
corpses  even  across  the  seas,  and  to  fly  in  crowds 
together  in  order  to  devour  them.  If  irrational  birds,  by 
their  natural  instinct,  discover  a  far-off  corpse,  shall  not 
reasonable  beings  and  Christians,  having  the  true  faith, 
so  much  the  more  run  to  Him,  Whose  lightning  cometh  out 
of  the  east ,  and  appeareth  even  unto  the  west  ?  The  word  corpse , 
or  dead  body ,  reminds  us  also  of  the  Passion  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Indeed,  we  may  say  that,  when  we  read  the 
Scriptures,  in  which  the  Passion  of  our  Lord  is  clearly 
spoken  of,  we  are,  so  to  speak,  gathered  around  the  Body 
of  Christ,  and  that,  meditating  on  that  Body  crucified  for 
us,  we  are  attracted  by  the  Word  of  God.  The  truths  of 
the  Passion  and  Death  of  the  Son  of  God  are  described  in 
all  their  details  in  the  Holy  Scriptures,  for  they  say  of  our 
Saviour:  They  have  dug  My  hands  and  feet  (Ps.  xxi.  17). 
Isaias  also  says :  He  shall  be  led  as  a  sheep  to  the  slaughter 
(Isa.  liii.  7).  Other  passages  of  Holy  Scripture  are  as 
clear  as  those.  The  eagles  represent  the  just  who,  like 
the  eagles,  renew  their  years;  and  who,  according  to 
Isaias,  are  covered  with  feathers,  and  take  wings  to  fly  to 
Christ  and  meditate  on  His  Passion. 

V.  And  immediately  after  the  tribulation  of  those  days ,  the 
sun  shall  be  darkened ,  atid  the  moon  shall  not  give  her  light ,  and 
the  stars  shall  fall  from  heaven ,  and  the  powers  of  the  heavens 
shall  be  moved ,  When  hearing  these  words,  let  us  not  think 
that  the  sun  shall  then  lose  its  rays,  for  it  is  said :  The 
light  of  the  moon  shall  be  as  the  light  of  the  sun ,  and  the  light 
of  the  sun  shall  be  sevenfold  (Isa.  xxx.  26).  But  we  learn 
thereby  that  the  light  of  the  sun  and  the  stars  will  then 
seem  like  darkness  in  comparison  with  the  brilliant  light 
of  the  Son  of  God.  It  follows  that,  when  even  the  sun 


TWENTY-FOURTH  SUNDAY  AFTER  PENTECOST  361 


now  shining  in  the  firmament,  when  the  moon,  taking  the 
second  place  among  the  luminaries,  when  the  stars,  now 
like  lighted  lamps  in  the  night,  when  the  powers  of  the 
heavens — the  multitude  of  Angels — will  seem  like  shadows 
or  darkness  at  the  coming  of  Christ,  it  follows  that  man, 
now  thinking  himself  pure  enough  not  to  be  afraid  of  the 
terrible  J  udge,  is  grossly  deceiving  himself.  A  nd  there  shall 
appear  the  sign  of  the  Son  of  Man  in  heaven .  This  sign  is  the 
Cross,  at  the  sight  of  which  the  Jews  shall  be -filled  with 
astonishment,  according  to  Zachery  xxii.  and  John  xix. 
We  may  also  understand  by  this  sign  the  victories  won 
by  Jesus  over  His  enemies.  And  then  shall  all  tribes  of  the 
earth  mourn  ;  and  they  shall  see  the  Son  of  Man  coming  in  the 
clouds  of  heaven  with  much  power  and  majesty.  These  words 
do  not  refer  to  the  elect,  the  inhabitants  of  heaven,  but 
to  the  wicked,  called  the  children  of  the  earth,  since  they 
chose  it  for  their  inheritance.  They  shall  not  be  in  the 
company  of  the  elect,  whom  the  Angels  with  a  trumpet  shall 
gather  together  from  the  four  winds.  Meanwhile,  heaven  and 
earth  shall  pass  away ,  says  Jesus,  but  My  words  shall  not  pass 
away.  Namely,  the  form  of  heaven  and  earth  shall  be 
changed,  but  not  destroyed ;  for  how  could  we  under¬ 
stand  the  words  about  the  sun  being  darkened,  the  moon 
not  giving  her  light,  and  the  stars  falling  down,  were 
heaven  and  earth.no  longer  in  existence  at  the  time  of 
these  astounding  events  ? 


FEAST  OF  SS.  PETER  AND  PAUL,  APOSTLES. 

Gospel:  Matt.  xvi.  13-19.  At  that  time:  Jesus  came 
into  the  quarters  of  Gesarea  Philippi,  and  He  asked  His 
disciples,  saying  :  Whom  do  men  say  that  the  Son  of 
Man  is  ?  But  they  said  :  Some,  John  the  Baptist,  and 


3^2 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


other  some,  Elias,  and  others,  Jeremias,  or  one  of  the 
prophets.  Jesus  saith  to  them  :  But  whom  do  you  say 
that  I  am  ?  Simon  Peter  answered  and  said  :  Thou  art 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  And  Jesus,  answering, 
said  to  him :  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Bar-Jona:  because 
flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  to  thee,  but  My 
Father,  Who  is  in  heaven.  And  I  say  to  thee  :  That  thou 
art  Peter,  and  upon  this  rock  I  will  build  My  Church, 
and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it.  And 
I  will  give  to  thee  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 
And  whatsoever  thou  shalt  bind  upon  earth,  it  shall  be 
bound  also  in  heaven :  and  whatsoever  thou  shalt  loose 
on  earth,  it  shall  be  loosed  also  in  heaven. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  JEROME,  PRIEST. 

Comment,  on  Matthew  xvi.,  Book  iit. 

I.  How  wonderful  the  question  addressed  by  our  Lord 
to  His  disciples :  Whom  do  men  say  that  the  Son  of  Man  is  ? 
For  those  who  speak  of  Him  as  the  Son  of  Man  are  men  ; 
while  those  who  know  Him  as  God  are  called  not  men, 
but  gods.  But  they  said :  Some ,  John  the  Baptist ,  and  other 
some ,  Elias ,  and  others ,  Jeremias ,  or  one  of  the  prophets ,  I 
wonder  why  some  interpreters  of  the  Holy  Writ  have 
thought  it  worth  their  while  to  search  into  the  origin  of 
each  of  these  errors,  and  to  engage  in  a  lengthy  dis¬ 
cussion  as  to  why  some  thought  that  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  was  John  the  Baptist,  other  some ,  Elias ,  and  others , 
Jeremias ,  or  one  of  the  prophets.  Their  mistakes  about  Elias 
and  Jeremias  were  like  that  of  Herod  concerning  John 
the  Baptist.  It  is  John  the  Baptist ,  whom  I  beheaded  ;  he  is 
risen  again  from  the  dead ,  and  therefore  mighty  works  show 
forth  themselves  in  him  (Mark  vi.  14,  16). 

II.  Jesus  saith  to  them  :  But  whom  do  you  say  that  I  am  ? 


FEAST  OF  SS.  PETER  AND  PAUL ,  APOSTLES  363 

Intelligent  reader,  notice  from  the  context,  that  there  is  a 
distinction  drawn  between  the  Apostles  and  mere  men  ; 
they  are  called  gods.  Whom  do  men  say  that  the  Son  of  Man 
is  ?  asked  the  Lord  ;  but,  on  the  other  hand  :  Whom  do 
you  say  that  I  am  ?  They,  being  but  men,  only  think  of 
human  things ;  but  you,  whom  I  call  gods,  whom  are  you 
convinced  that  I  am  ?  Then  Peter,  in  the  name  of  all  the 
Apostles,  pronounced  these  words:  Thou  art  Christ, the  Son 
of  the  living  God .  He  called  Him  living  God ,  to  mark  the 
difference  between  Him  and  all  those  gods  adored  by  the 
pagans  :  Saturnus,  Jupiter,  Minerva,  Bacchus,  Hercules, 
and  all  other  pagan  gods,  who  are  indeed  dead. 

III.  And  Jesus ,  answering ,  said  to  him:  Blessed  art  thou , 
Simon  Bar-Jona:  because  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  to 
thee ,  but  My  Father  Who  is  in  heaven .  The  Apostle,  having 
given  testimony  to  the  Lord,  the  Lord  in  turn  gave 
testimony  to  the  Apostle.  Peter  said  :  Thou  art  Christ , 
the  Son  of  the  living  God ,  and  he  received  as  a  reward  for 
his  testimony  to  the  truth  these  words  :  Blessed  art  thou , 
Simon  Bar-Jona .  Why  blessed  ?  Because  flesh  and  blood  hath 
not  revealed  it  to  thee ,  but  My  Father .  What  flesh  and 
blood  could  not  reveal,  was  revealed  by  the  grace  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  This  name  was  given  him  on  account  of 
his  confession,  as  the  name  of  one  who  has  revelation  from 
the  Holy  Ghost,  whose  son  he  is  called.  Bar-Jona  in  our 
tongue  means  the  son  of  the  dove ,  the  symbol  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  We  may  also  compare’  these  words  :  Flesh  and 
blood  hath  not  revealed  it  to  thee  with  those  of  the  Apostle, 
saying  :  When  He  called  me  by  His  grace  to  reveal  His  Son  in 
me,  that  I  might  preach  Him  among  the  Gentiles,  immediately  I 
condescended  not  to  flesh  and  blood  (Gal.  i.  15,  16).  By  the 
words  flesh  and  blood  the  Jews  are  here  meant  by  the 
Apostle,  thus  indicating,  though  under  other  circum¬ 
stances,  that  not  by  the  doctrine  of  the  Pharisees,  but  by 


364 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


the  grace  of  God,  it  was  revealed  to  men  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  indeed  the  Son  of  God. 

IV.  And  1  say  to  thee  :  That  thou  art  Peter ,  and  upon  this 
rock  1  will  build  My  Church .  And  by  these  words  our 
Lord  seems  to  say :  Thou  hast  confessed  Me  to  be  the 
Son  of  God,  and  I  confess,  not  in  words  only  without  any 
meaning,  but  in  deed,  that  thou  art  Peter — a  rock — and 
that  upon  this  rock  I  will  build  My  Church.  The 
Divine  light  was  given  by  Jesus  to  the  Apostles,  called 
the  light  of  the  world  (Matt.  v.  14),  and  to  each  of  them 
was  given  a  special  name.  But  Simon  was  called  Peter , 
because  he  firmly  believed  in  Jesus  Christ,  the  true 
Rock.  This  rock  is  alluded  to  when  Jesus  said  to  the 
Prince  of  the  Apostles  :  Upon  this  rock  I  will  build  My 
Church ,  and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it .  I 
believe  that  by  these  words,  <  the  gates  of  hell,  not  only 
the  sins  and  vices  of  men  are  to  be  understood,  but 
especially  the  doctrines  of  heretics  and  apostates,  by 
which  men  are  deceived  and  cast  into  hell.  Let  no 
one  imagine  that  by  the  words  1  gates  of  hell 5  our  Lord 
meant  a  temporal  death,  from  which  the  Apostles  were 
to  be  preserved ;  for  we  know  that  all  of  them  suffered  a 
glorious  martyrdom. 

V.  And  I  will  give  to  thee  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of 
heaven  ;  and  whatsoever  thou  shalt  bind  upon  earth ,  it  shall  be 
bound  also  in  heaven ;  and  whatsoever  thou  shalt  loose  on  earthy 
it  shall  be  loosed  also  in  heaven .  Bishops  and  priests,  not 
understanding  the  meaning  of  these  words,  could  perhaps 
in  pharisaical  pride  imagine  that  power  was  given  to 
them  arbitrarily  to  condemn  the  innocent,  and  to  absolve 
the  guilty;  just  as  if  God  did  not  regard  the  disposition 
of  the  sinner,  before  pardoning  or  condemning  him,  more 
than  the  sentence  of  the  priest.  We  read  in  the  ‘  Book 
Leviticus  (chap,  xiv.)  that  the  lepers  were  to  show  them- 


THE  ASSUMPTION  OF  THE  BLESSED  VIRGIN  MARY  365 

selves  to  the  priest,  who  declared  them  to  be  unclean  if 
infected  with  leprosy.  However,  they  were  not  made 
unclean  by  the  priest,  whose  office  it  was  to  judge  of 
leprosy,  and  declare  some  clean  and  others  unclean. 
What  was  done  in  the  Old  Testament  about  lepers 
happens  now,  when  the  Bishop  or  the  priest,  after  exam¬ 
ining  the  stains  of  sins,  is  able  by  his  office  and  power  to 
declare  who  are  those  to  be  bound  and  those  to  be  loosed. 

THE  ASSUMPTION  OF  THE  BLESSED 
VIRGIN  MARY. 

Gospel:  Luke  x.  38-42.  At  that  time:  Jesus  entered 
into  a  certain  town,  and  a  certain  woman,  named  Martha, 
received  Him  into  her  house.  And  she  had  a  sister 
called  Mary,  who,  sitting  also  at  the  Lord’s  feet,  heard 
His  word.  But  Martha  was  busy  about  much  serving, 
who  stood  and  said :  Lord,  hast  Thou  no  care  that  my 
sister  hath  left  me  alone  to  serve  ?  speak  to  her,  there¬ 
fore,  that  she  help  me.  And  the  Lord,  answering,  said 
to  her :  Martha,  Martha,  thou  art  careful,  and  art 
troubled  about  many  things.  But  one  thing  is  necessary. 
Mary  hath  chosen  the  best  part,  which  shall  not  be  taken 
away  from  her. 

HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP, 
Twenty-seventh  Homily  on  the  Words  of  the  Lord. 

I.  When  the  Holy  Gospel  was  read  out,  we  heard 
that  our  Lord  was  received  by  a  pious  woman  into  her 
house,  and  the  woman’s  name  was  Martha.  And  while 
she  was  busy  about  much  serving ,  her  sister  Mary  was 
sitting  at  the  Lord’s  feet,  hearing  His  words.  The  one 
worked,  the  other  was  idle ;  the  one  was  ministering,  the 
other  was  being  filled.  However,  Martha,  though  work- 


366  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

ing  hard  in  that  occupation  and  bustle  of  serving, 
appealed  to  the  Lord,  and  made  complaint  of  her  sister, 
because  she  did  not  help  her  in  her  work.  But  the  Lord 
answered  Martha  for  Mary,  and  He  Who  had  been 
appealed  to,  to  be  her  Judge,  became  her  Advocate : 
And  the  Lord ,  answerings  said  to  her :  Martha ,  Martha ,  thou 
art  careful ,  and  art  troubled  about  many  things .  But  one  thing 
is  necessary .  Mary  hath  chosen  the  best  part ,  which  shall  not 
be  taken  away  from  her.  We  have  heard  both  the  appeal 
of  the  complainant  and  the  sentence  of  the  Judge — sen¬ 
tence  which  replied  to  the  appellant  and  defended  the 
cause  of  the  other  whom  the  Lord  had  received.  Mary 
was  wrapped  up  in  the  sweetness  of  the  Lord’s  word. 
Martha  was  intent  how  she  might  feed  the  Lord,  and 
Mary  was  intent  how  to  be  fed  by  the  Lord.  By  Martha 
a  banquet  was  being  prepared  for  the  Lord,  at  Whose 
banquet  Mary  was  already  delighting  herself.  And  as 
Mary  was  listening  in  peace  and  delight  to  His  most 
sweet  words,  when  Martha  came  and  complained  of  her 
to  the  Lord,  how  do  we  imagine  that  she  feared,  lest  the 
Lord  should  say  to .  her :  Arise,  and  help  thy  sister. 
For  she  was  held  by  a  wondrous  sweetness,  the  relish 
of  which  is  felt  more  by  the  mind  than  the  belly.  She 
was  excused,  and  she  sat  all  the  safer.  But  on  what 
ground  was  she  excused  ?  Let  us  consider,  examine 
and  investigate  it  thoroughly,  as  far  as  we  can,  that  we 
also  may  be  fed. 

II.  What  then  ?  For  what  do  we  imagine,  that 
Martha’s  serving  was  blamed,  she  who  was  busy  with 
the  cares  of  hospitality,  and  who  had  received  the  Lord 
into  her  house  ?  How  could  she  be  blamed,  whose  heart 
was  gladdened  by  so  great  a  Guest  ?  If  this  be  true,  then 
let  men  give  up  their  service  to  the  poor  ;  let  them  choose 
for  themselves  the  best  party  which  shall  not  be  taken  away 


THE  ASSUMPTION  OF  THE  BLESSED  VIRGIN  MARY  367 

from  them  ;  let  them  give  themselves  entirely  to  the  word, 
and  long  after  the  sweetness  of  doctrine;  let  them  be 
occupied  about  the  salvation-giving  knowledge  ;  let  there 
be  no  care  in  them  to  find  out  what  stranger  is  in  the 
street,  or  whether  there  be  one  who  wants  bread,  or 
clothing,  or  to  be  visited,  to  be  redeemed,  or  to  be 
buried  ;  let  works  of  mercy  cease,  and  attention  given 
only  to  knowledge.  If  this  be  the  best  part ,  why  do  not 
all  men  do  so,  since  we  have  the  Lord  Himself  as  our 
Advocate  in  this  case  ?  We  do  not  fear  in  this  matter  to 
offend  His  justice,  since  we  have  the  support  of  His 
sentence. 

III.  And  yet  it  is  not  so  ;  but  as  the  Lord  said,  so  it 
is.  It  is  not  as  you  understand,  but  it  is  as  you  ought  to. 
understand  it.  Mark,  then  :  Thou  art  troubled  about  many 
things  ;  but  one  thing  is  necessary.  Mary  hath  chosen  the  best 
part.  Thou  hast  not  chosen  a  bad  part,  but  she  a  better 
one.  And  how  better  ?  Because  thou  art  about  many 
things ,  she  about  one  thing.  One  is  preferred  to  many ; 
for  one  does  not  come  from  many,  but  many  from  one. 
Many  are  the  things  that  were  made ;  He  Who  made 
them  is  One.  Heaven  and  earth,  the  sea,  and  all  things 
in  them,  how  many  are  they  ?  Who  can  number  them  ? 
Who  can  conceive  their  multitude  ?  Who  made  them  ? 
God  made  them  all,  and  they  are  very  good  (Gen.  i.  31). 
And  how  much  better  is  He  Who  made  them  ?  Let  us 
consider  our  occupations  about  many  things.  Much  work 
is  required  for  refreshing  our  bodies.  How  is  this  ? 
Because  we  hunger  and  thirst.  Mercy  is  necessary  for 
the  wretched.  You  break  bread  to  the  hungry,  for  you 
have  found  a  hungry  man.  Take  hunger  away,  to  whom 
do  you  break  bread  ?  Take  homeless  travellers  away, 
to  whom  do  you  offer  hospitality  ?  Take  nakedness 
away,  whom  will  you  cover  with  clothes  ?  Let  there  be 


368 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


no  sickness,  whom  do  you  visit  ?  No  captivity,  whom 
will  you  redeem  ?  No  quarrelling,  whom  do  you  recon¬ 
cile  ?  No  death,  whom  do  you  bury  ?  In  the  future 
world  these  evils  will  not  exist,  therefore  these  works  of 
mercy  will  not  be  required.  Martha  did  well  to  serve 
the  Lord’s  mortal  body  in  those  things  which  concerned, 
shall  I  say,  His  bodily  want  or  His  bodily  will.  But 
Who  was  within  that  mortal  flesh  ?  In  the  beginning  was 
the  Word,  and  the  Word  was  with  God,  and  the  Word  was 
God  (John  i.  i).  See  what  Mary  was  listening  to ! 
And  the  Word  was  made  flesh,  and  dwelt  among  us.  See 
Whom  Martha  was  serving !  Therefore  Mary  hath 
chosen  the  best  part,  which  shall  not  be  taken  away  from  her. 
For  she  has  chosen  what  shall -abide  for  ever  and  ever, 
and  it  shall  not  be  taken  away  from  her.  Mary  was 
careful  about  one  thing  only,  and  she  held  to  the  belief  of 
the  psalmist,  saying  :  It  is  good  for  me  to  adhere  to  my  God 
(Ps.  lxxii.  28).  She  sat  at  the  feet  of  our  Head.  The 
more  lowly  she  sat,  the  more  fully  she  received.  Water, 
that  runs  down  from  the  summits  of  the  hills,  flows  to  the 
lowest  depths  of  the  valleys.  The  Lord  did  not  blame 
Martha’s  work,  but  distinguished  between  the  service  of 
the  two  sisters.  Thou  art  troubled  about  many  things ;  but 
one  thing  is  necessary.  Mary  has  already  chosen  that  one 
thing  for  herself.  The  labour  of  manifold  things  passes 
away,  and  the  love  of  one  thing  abides  ;  therefore  what 
she  has  chosen  shall  not  be  taken  away  from  her.  But  what 
thou  hast  chosen,  O  Martha  (it  follows,  of  course,  and 
must  be  understood) — what  thou  hast  chosen  shall  be 
taken  away  from  thee.  But  it  shall  be  taken  away  from 
thee  for  thy  good,  so  that  what  is  best  may  be  given  to 
thee.  Labour  shall  be  taken  away  from  thee,  that  rest 
may  be  given  to  thee.  Thou  art  still  on  the  sea ;  Mary 
is  already  in  port. 


THE  ASSUMPTION  OF  THE  BLESSED  VIRGIN  MARY  369 

IV.  You  see,  then,  beloved  brethren,  and,  as  I  suppose, 
you  understand  already,  that  in  these  two  women,  who  were 
both  well  pleasing  to  the  Lord,  both  lovely,  both  disciples, 
you  see,  I  say,  and  whosoever  you  be  who  understand,  you 
understand  something  great,  which  you  also,  who  do  not 
understand,  ought  to  hear  and  know,  that  in  those  two 
women  two  lives  are  figured,  the  present  life  and  the  life 
to  come,  the  life  of  labour  and  the  life  of  rest,  the  life 
of  sorrow  and  the  life  of  blessedness,  the  temporal  life 
and  the  eternal  life.  There  are  two  lives  ;  think  more 
fully  about  them.  Whatsoever  this  life  contains,  I  speak 
not  of  a  life  of  evil,  of  wickedness,  of  crime,  of  unclean¬ 
ness,  or  of  ungodliness  ;  but  of  labour  and  full  of  troubles, 
chastened  by  fears,  and  tried  by  temptations,  even  such 
guileless  life  I  mean,  as  was  suitable  for  Martha ;  such 
a  life  examine  as  well  as  you  can,  and,  as  I  said,  think 
more  about  it  than  I  speak.  There  was  no  wicked  life 
in  that  house,  neither  with  Martha  nor  with  Mary.  If  it 
ever  had  been,  it  fled  when  the  Lord  made  His  entrance. 
In  that  house,  therefore,  which  received  the  Lord,  there 
remained  in  the  two  women  two  lives,  both  guileless, 
both  praiseworthy,  the  one  of  labour,  the  other  of  ease ; 
neither  vicious,  neither  slothful,  both  harmless — both,  I 
say,  praiseworthy,  but  one  of  labour,  and  one  of  rest. 
Neither  vicious,  of  which  the  life  of  labour  must  beware ; 
neither  slothful,  which  the  life  of  rest  has  also  to  beware 
of.  There  were  in  that  house  those  two  lives,  and  He 
Himself  the  Fountain  of  life.  In  Martha  was  the  image 
of  the  present  things  ;  in  Mary  of  future  things.  What 
Martha  was  doing  is  what  we  do  now ;  what  Mary  was 
doing  is  what  we  hope  for.  Let  us  do  the  first  Well,  that 
the  second  may  be  granted  to  us  fully.  What  of  this 
have  we  now,  and  how  far  is  it  ours  ?  As  long  as  we  are 
in  this  world,  how  much  of  that  life  have  we  ?  In  some 

24 


370  SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 

measure  we  are  employed  in  it  now ;  for  when  removed 
from  business,  and  laying  aside  domestic  cares,  you  meet 
together,  you  stand  and  listen ;  and,  in  so  far  as  you  do 
this,  you  are  like  Mary  at  the  feet  of  Jesus.  And  you  do 
what  Marj  did  with  greater  facility  than  I  who  have  to 
distribute  to  you.  Yet  if  I  speak  anything  to  you,  it  is 
Christ’s  ;  therefore  you  are  fed  by  my  words,  for  they 
are  Christ’s.  The  Bread,  of  which  I  live  as  well  as  you, 
is  common  to  us  all.  Now  we  live ,  if  we  stand  in  the  Lord 
(i  Thess.  iii.'8) — not  in  us,  but  stand  in  the  Lord.  For 
neither  he  that  planteth  is  anything ,  nor  he  that  watereth  ;  but 
God  that  giveth  the  increase  (i  Cor.  iii.  7). 


THE  FEAST  OF  ALL  SAINTS. 

Gospel  :  Matt.  v.  1-12.  At  that  time  :  Jesus,  seeing  the 
multitudes,  went  up  into  a  mountain,  and  when  He  was 
sat  down,  His  disciples  came  unto  Him.  And  opening 
His  mouth,  He  taught  them,  saying  :  Blessed  are  the 
poor  in  spirit :  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 
Blessed  are  the  meek :  for  they  shall  possess  the  land. 
Blessed  are  they  that  mourn  :  for  they  shall  be  comforted. 
Blessed  are  they  that  hunger  and  thirst  after  justice  :  for 
they  shall  have  their  fill.  Blessed  are  the  merciful :  for 
they  shall  obtain  mercy.  Blessed  are  the  clean  of  heart : 
for  they  shall  see  God.  Blessed  are  the  peacemakers : 
for  they  shall  be  called  the  children  of  God.  Blessed 
are  they  that  suffer  persecution  for  justice  sake:  for 
theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  Blessed  are  ye  when 
they  shall  revile  you,  and  persecute  you,  and  speak  all 
that  is  evil  against  you,  untruly,  for  My  sake ;  be  glad 
and  rejoice,  for  your  reward  is  very  great  in  heaven. 


THE  FEAST  OF  ALL  SAINTS 


371 


HOMILY  BY  ST.  AUGUSTINE,  BISHOP. 

On  the  Lord’s  Sermon,  Book  i. 

I.  If  the  question  be  asked,  what  the  mountain 
signifies,  it  may  well  be  understood  as  meaning  the 
higher  and  greater  commandments  of  justice,  since  there 
were  lesser  ones  given  to  the  Jews.  The  one  God, 
according  to  an  excellently,  arranged  distribution  of 
times,  gave  by  His  prophets  and  servants  the  lesser 
commandments  to  a  people  who  as  yet  required  to  be 
bound  by  fear  ;  but  by  His  Son  He  gave  the  greater 
ones  to  a  people  whom  it  now  behoved  Him  to  set  free 
by  love.  But  whether  it  be  the  lesser  to  the  lesser,  or 
the  greater  to  the  greater,  all  are  alike  the  gift  of  Him 
Who  alone  knows  what  is  at  each  time  the  best  medicine 
to  be  presented  to  the  human  race.  Nor  is  it  surprising 
that  the  greater  commandments  are  given  for  the  king¬ 
dom  of  heaven,  and  the  lesser  for  an  earthly  kingdom, 
since  both  are  the  gifts  of  one  and  the  same  God  Who 
made  heaven  and  earth.  This  higher  and  greater  justice, 
then,  is  that  spoken  of  by  the  Prophet :  Thy  justice  is  as 
the  mountains  of  God  (Ps.  xxxv.  7).  This  may  well  mean 
that  the  one  Teacher,  alone  fit  to  teach  matters  of  such 
importance,  teaches  on  a  mountain.  And  when  He  was 
sat  down.  He  teaches  sitting,  as  it  pertains  to  the  dignity 
of  the  Instructor’s  office.  His  disciples  came  unto  Him , 
that  they  may  be  nearer  in  body,  to  hear  those  precepts, 
by  the  fulfilment  of  which  they  should  also  be  nearer  in 
spirit.  And  opening  His  mouth ,  He  taught  them .  The 
circumstance  before  us,  which  runs,  And  opening  His 
mouth ,  perhaps  gracefully  intimates  that  the  sermon  will 
be  somewhat  longer  than  usual.  Unless  the  meaning 
be  the  declaration  that  He  now  opened  His  own  mouth, 

24 — 2 


372 


SUN  DA  YS  AND  FESTIVALS 


whereas  under  the  Old  Law  He  used  to  open  the  mouths 
of  the  prophets. 

II.  And  now  what  does  He  say?  Blessed  are  the  poor 
in  spirit :  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven .  We  read  in 
Holy  Scripture  concerning  the  lusting  after  temporal 
things  :  All  is  vanity  and  presumption  of  spirit  (Eccles.  vi.  9). 
Presumption  of  spirit  means  rashness  and  pride.  U sually 
the  proud  are  said  to  be  men  of  high  spirit,  and  rightly 
so,  since  spirit  is  only  one  of  the  Latin  names  for  wind. 
Hence  it  is  written  :  Fire,  hail,  snow ,  ice,  stormy  winds 
(Ps.  cxlviii.  8).  Who  has  not  heard  that  the  proud  are 
spoken  of  as  puffed  up,  as  if  blown  out  with  wind  ?  Hence 
also  the  Apostle  says :  Knowledge  pujfeth  up  ;  but  charity 
edifieth  (1  Cor.  viii.  1).  By  the  poor  in  spirit,  here  called 
blessed,  are  justly  to  be  understood  the  humble  and  God¬ 
fearing — that  is,  those  not  having  a  spirit  puffed  up  with 
windy  vanity.  Blessedness  ought  not  to  begin  at  any 
other  point,  if,  indeed,  it  is  to  reach  the  highest  wisdom. 
For  the  fear  of  the  Lord  is  the  beginning  of  wisdom  (Ps.  cx.  10). 
Whereas,  on  the  other  hand,  it  is  written  :  Pride  is  the 
beginning  of  all  sin  (Ecclus.  x.  15).  The  proud  covet  and 
love  earthly  kingdoms. 

III.  Blessed  are  the  meek:  for  they  shall  possess  the  land . 
The  land  they  shall  possess,  I  suppose  to  be  that  of 
which  it  is  said  in  the  Psalm  :  Thou  art  my  hope,  my 
portion  in  the  land  of  the  living  (Ps.  cxli.  6).  The  inheri¬ 
tance  of  the  meek  in  this  land  is  everlastingly  sure  and 
safe,  where  the  soul,  being  of  a  good  disposition,  rests,  as 
it  were,  in  its  own  home,  just  as  carnal  owners  rest  at 
home  in  sure  earthly  possessions.  And  they  live  on  the 
income  from  that  land,  as  earthly  owners  from  the  in¬ 
come  of  their  possessions  ;  this  is  the  home  and  abiding- 
place  of  the  Saints.  The  meek,  therefore,  are  those  who 
yield  to  acts  of  wickedness,  and  do  not  resist  evil,  but 


THE  FEAST  OF  ALL  SAINTS 


373 


overcome  evil  by  good  (Rom.  xii.  21)  Let  those,  then,  who 
are  not  meek,  quarrel  and  fight  for  earthly  and  temporal 
things  ;  but  blessed  are  the  meek ■:  for  they  shall  possess  the 
landj  from  which  they  cannot  be  driven  away. 

IV.  Blessed  are  they  that  mourn  :  for  they  shall  be  com¬ 
forted .  This  mourning  is  sorrow  for  the  loss  of  things 
loved  and  now  lost.  Now,  those  converted  to  God  lose 
in  this  world  things  which  they  once  loved ;  for  they  do 
not  rejoice  in  the  things  in  which  they  formerly  rejoiced. 
Until  the  love  of  eternal  things  be  in  their  hearts,  they 
are  wounded  by  some  measure  of  grief ;  but  they  will  be 
comforted  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  Who  on  this  account 
chiefly  has  the  title  of  the  Paraclete — that  is,  the  Com¬ 
forter.  They  lose  the  temporal  joy,  but  they  gain  the 
enjoyment  of  eternal  things. 

V.  Blessed  are  they  that  hunger  and  thirst  after  justice  :  for 
they  shall  have  their  fill.  Those  who  are  here  spoken  of  by 
Jesus,  are  the  lovers  of  a  true  and  indestructible  good. 
And  they  shall  have  their  hunger  satisfied  with  that  meat 
of  which  the  Lord  Himself  says  :  My  meat  is  to  do  the  will 
of  Him  that  sent  Me ,  that  I  may  perfect  His  work  (John 
iv.  34).  And  their  thirst  shall  be  slaked  with  that 
water  which  the  Lord  Himself  gives  them,  whereof 
whosoever  drinketh ,  as  the  Lord  says,  shall  not  thirst  for 
ever .  It  shall  become  in  him  a  fountain  of  water  springing  up 
into  life  everlasting  (John  iv.  13,  14). 

VI.  Blessed  are  the  merciful :  for  they  shall  obtain  mercy . 
He  calls  blessed  those  who  relieve  the  miserable  and 
needy ;  for  with  the  measure  wherewith  they  have  meted, 
it  shall  be  measured  to  them,  and  they  shall  not  be  left 
unhelped  in  their  own  misery.  Blessed  are  the  clean  of 
heart :  for  they  shall  see  God .  What  fqols,  therefore,  are 
those  who  seek  God  with  their  outward  eyes,  since  He  is 
seen  with  the  heart,  as  it  is  written :  Seek  Him  in  simplicity 


374 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


of  heart  (Wisd.  i.  i).  A  simple  heart  is  a  pure  heart. 
And  just  as  this  earthly  light  cannot  be  seen  unless  the 
eyes  be  clean,  so  cannot  God  be  seen,  unless  that  is  pure 
by  which  alone  He  can  be  seen. 

VII.  Blessed  are  the  peacemakers:  for  they  shall  be  called 
the  children  of  God .  The  perfection  of  peace  is  the 

absence  of  opposition  and  contrariety,  and  the  peace¬ 
makers  are  called  the  children  of  God,  because  they  offer 
no  opposition  against  the 'will  of  God.  As  becomes 
children,  they  have  their  Father’s  likeness.  Now  they 
are  peacemakers  in  themselves,  because  they  order  all 
the  movements  of  their  own  mind  in  obedience  to  reason — 
that  is,  to  mind  and  soul — and  by  so  doing  and  so  taming 
the  lust  of  the  flesh,  they  become  a  kingdom  of  God.  In 
such  a  kingdom  all  things  are  so  arranged  that  the  chiefest 
and  noblest  part  of  man  rules  without  resistance  over 
those  lower  things  which  we  have  in  common  with  beasts. 
And  in  the  same  way  that  nobler  part  of  man — that 
is  to  say,  his  mind  and  reason — must  be  brought  under 
subjection  to  something  better  and  higher  still,  namely, 
Truth,  the  only  begotten  Son  of  God.  He  only  can 
rule  well,  who  has  learned  to  obey.  And  this  is  the 
peace  given  on  earth  to  men  of  good  will ;  this  is  the  life 
of  one  completely  and  perfectly  wise.  The  prince  of 
this  world,  who  rules  over  perversity  and  disorder,  is  cast 
out  of  such  a  most  peaceful  and  orderly  kingdom.  When 
once  this  peace  has  been  inwardly  established,  whatsoever 
persecutions  he  that  has  been  cast  out  shall  stir  up  from 
without,  he  only  increases  the  glory  that  redounds  to 
God.  He  will  be  unable  to  bring  to  the  ground  anything 
in  that  stronghold,  and  by  the  failure  of  his  machinations 
he  will  make  knovjn  how  strongly  it  was  built  inwardly. 
Hence  there  follows  :  Blessed  are  they  that  suffer  persecution 
for  justice  sake  :  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven . 


THE  FEAST  OF  ALL  SAINTS 


375 


VIII,  In  this  eighth  sentence,  which  goes  back  to  the 
starting  point — for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven — and 
makes  manifest  the  perfect  man,  is  perhaps  contained  a 
connection  with  the  fact  that,  according  to  the  Old  Law, 
circumcision  was  to  be  performed  on  the  eighth  day,  and 
that  the  resurrection  of  our  Lord  took  place  on  the  day 
after  the  Sabbath — that  is,  the  eighth  day  — and  at  the  same 
time  the  first  day  of  the  week.  There  is,  perhaps,  also  a 
connection  with  the  celebration  of  the  eight  festival  days 
celebrated  in  the  case  of  the  regeneration  of  the  new 
man,  and  by  the  very  number  of  Pentecost — being  inter¬ 
preted,  the  Feast  of  the  Fiftieth  Day.  For  this  number 
of  fifty  days  is  reckoned  by  counting  seven  weeks  multi¬ 
plied  by  seven  days,  which  is  forty-nine,  to  which  one  is 
added — that  is,  an  eighth — thus  making  up  fifty.  Hence 
we  return  to  the  starting  point,  the  day  whereon  the  Holy 
Ghost  was  sent,  by  Whom  we  are  led  into  the  kingdom 
of  heaven,  receive  the  inheritance,  and  are  comforted. 
We  are  fed,  and  obtain  mercy ;  we  are  purified,  and  are 
made  peacemakers.  And  being  thus  made  perfect  within, 
we  bear  all  troubles  brought  upon  us  from  without  for 
the  sake  of  truth  and  justice. 

IX.  Blessed  are  ye,  says  Jesus,  when  they  shall  revile  you,  and 
persecute  you,  and  speak  all  that  is  evil  against  you,  untruly,  for 
My  sake  ;  be  glad  and  rejoice ,  for  your  reward  is  very  great  in 
heaven .  Let  anyone  who  is  seeking  after  the  pleasures  of 
this  world  and  the  possession  of  temporal  goods,  under 
the  name  of  a  Christian,  consider  that  our  blessedness  is 
within,  as  it  is  said  of  the  soul  of  the  Church  by  the 
mouth  of  .the  Prophet :  All  the  glory  of  the  king's  daughter 
is  within  (Ps.  xliv.  14).  For  outwardly  reviling,  and 
persecutions,  and  evil  reports  are  promised  her.  Yet  for 
these  very  things  her  reward  is  great  in  heaven,  and  it  is 
felt  in  the  hearts  of  sufferers,  at  least  of  those  who  can 


376 


SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS 


now  say :  We  glory  also  in  tribulations ,  knowing  that  tribula¬ 
tion  worketh  patience ,  and  patience  trial ,  and  trial  hope . 
hope  confoundeth  not ,  because  the  charity  of  God  is  poured  forth 
in  our  hearts  by  the  Holy  Ghost  Who  is  given  to  us  (Rom. 
v.  3-5).  To  suffer  such  things  is  not  in  itself  advan¬ 
tageous,  but  the  bearing  of  them  for  the  name  of  Christ 
not  only  calmly  but  gladly.  For  many  heretics,  deceiving 
souls  under  the  name  of  Christians,  suffer  many  such 
things,  yet  they  are  excluded  from  the  reward  ;  for  it  is 
not  merely  written  :  Blessed  are  they  that  suffer  persecution  ; 
but  it  is  added,  for  justice  sake .  Where  there  is  not  sound 
faith,  there  cannot  be  justice ;  for,  my  just  man  liveth  by 
faith  (Heb.  x.  38).  Neither  let  schismatics  promise  them¬ 
selves  anything  of  that  reward;  for  as  justice  cannot  exist 
where  there  is  no  faith,  so  neither  can  it  exist  where  there 
is  not  love.  And  schismatics  have  no  love ;  for  love  of  our 
neighbour  worketh  no  evil  (Rom.  xiii.  10).  If  they  had  love, 
they  would  not  tear  asunder  the  Body  of  Christ,  which 
is  the  Church  (Col.  i.  24). 


THE  END 


R.  &  T.  WASH  BOURNE,  4  PATERNOSTER  ROW,  LONDON 


