: H u it r Hf-w^ 



THK PRAYERS OF THIC LIFTING OF THE HAND.’ 


TlIK CUNEIFORM TEXTS OF a IrROtIP OF BaHYLONIAN ANO ASSYRIAN 

Incantations and Magical Formulas edited with Trans¬ 
literations Translations and Full Yocaiuflary 
FROM TauLETS OF THE IvUYUNJlK COL¬ 
LECTIONS PRESERVED IN THE 

British M/uskum 


HY 

LEONARD W. KING, M.A., 

. Iss'tsUwl in the Department 0/ Egyptian ana Assy nan Antiquities,, 
Jh it/sh Museum, 


Ionium; 

UJZAC AND CO, 



1 DEDICATE THIS BOOK 

TO 

THE REV. A. F. KIRKPATRICK, I).l). t 

KK,(! I US PROFESSOR 01' HEBREW AND FKELOW OK TRINITY CORLKOK 

0 AM HR 1IX ilC ; 

('ANON OK ELY ('ATI I RURAL, 

H/IV,, KT<, KTl\, 

AS A 'IN)KEN OR REGARD AND ESTEEM. 


ivlUliWb ini 


WAX) 


f i $ O ;, 3 If) 0'A ! 

lisjt&f) J Ife id & t 




PREFACE. 


The object of the present work is to give the cunei¬ 
form text of a complete group of tablets inscribed with 
prayers and religious compositions of a devotional and 
somewhat magical character, from the Kuyunjik collections 
preserved in the British Museum. To these texts a trans¬ 
literation into Latin characters has been added, and, in 
the case of well preserved or unbroken documents, a 
running translation has been given. A vocabulary with 
the necessary indexes, etc. is also appended. The cunei¬ 
form texts, which fill seventy-five plates, are about sixty in 
number, and of these only one has hitherto been published 
in full; the extracts or passages previously given in the 
works of the late Sir Henry Rawlinson, Dr. Strassmaier, 
and Prof. Bezold will be found cited in the Introduction. 

It will be seen that the greater number of the texts 
formed parts of several large groups of magical tablets, and 
that certain sections were employed in more than one group. 
As they appear here they are the result of the editing of 
the scribes of Ashurbanipal, king of Assyria about B. C. 
669—625, who had them copied and arranged for his 
royal library at Nineveh. There is little doubt however 
that the sources from which they were compiled were Baby¬ 
lonian. The prayers and formulae inscribed on the tablets, 
which bore the title of “Prayers of the Lifting of the 

b 



VI 


PREFACE. 


Hand”, were drawn up for use in the private worship, 
either of the king himself, or of certain of his subjects. Some 
of the tablets are inscribed with single prayers, and these 
appear to have been copied from the larger compositions 
for the use of special individuals on special occasions. As 
examples of this class of text K 223, K 2808, and K 2836 
may be mentioned, which contain Ashurbanipal’s personal 
petitions for the deliverance of Assyria from the evils which 
had fallen upon the land in consequence of an eclipse of 
the moon. 

Unlike the prayers of many Semitic nations the com¬ 
positions here given are accompanied by an interesting 
series of directions for the making of offerings and the 
performance of religious ceremonies, and they show a re¬ 
markable mixture of lofty spiritual conceptions and belief 
in the efficacy of incantations and magical practices, which 
cannot always be understood. In language closely resem¬ 
bling that of the penitential psalms we find the conscience- 
stricken suppliant crying to his god for relief from his 
sin, while in the same breath he entreats to be delivered 
from the spells and charms of the sorcerer, and from the 
hobgoblins, phantoms, spectres and devils with which his 
imagination had peopled the unseen world. 

The scientific study of the Babylonian and Assyrian 
religion dates from the publication of the Kosmologie 
der Babylonier by Prof. Jensen in 1890. In this work 
the author grouped and classified all the facts connected 
with the subject which could be derived from published 
texts, and it was evident that no farther advance could be 
made until after the publication of new material. It then 
became clear that the science could be best forwarded by a 
systematic study of the magical and religious series, class 
by class, rather than by the issue of miscellaneous texts 



PREFACE. 


VII 


however complete and important. Following this idea in the 
present year Dr. Tallqvist produced a scholarly monograph 
on the important series called by the Assyrians Maklu, and 
it is understood that Prof. Zimmern is engaged on the pre¬ 
paration of an edition of the equally important series called 
Shurpu. Since this little book has been prepared on 
similar lines and deals with a connected group of religious 
texts, it is hoped that it may be of use to those whose 
studies lead them to the careful consideration of the an¬ 
cient Semitic religions of Western Asia. 

My thanks are due to Prof. Bezoijd both for friendly 
advice and for help in the revision of the proofs; I am also 
indebted to Prof. Zimmern and a few private friends for 
suggestions which I have adopted. 

LEONARD W. KING. 


November 13 th, 1895. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Preface . V—VII 

Introduction . XI—XXX 

List of Tablets . XXXI 

Transliteration, Translations and Notes . i —129 

Vocabulary . 131 —181 

Appendixes — 

I. Proper names . 182 —186 

II. Numerals. 186 

HI. Words and ideographs of uncertain reading 187 —194 

Indexes — 

I. Tablets and duplicates. 195—197 

II. Registration-numbers . 198—199 

Cuneiform texts . plates i —75 













INTRODUCTION. 


The clay tablets, from which the texts here published 
have been copied, are preserved in the British Museum and 
belong to the various collections from Kuyunjik. The ma¬ 
jority are of the K. Collection, but some have been included 
from the Sm., D.T., Rm, 81—2—4, 82—3 — 23, 83 — 1 — 18 and 
Bu. 91 —5—g collections. The tablets, to judge from those that 
are complete, are not all of the same size but vary from about 
4y in* X 2 f in. to 9-J- in. X 3f in. All contain one column of 
writing on obverse and reverse, and, with one exception, are 
inscribed in the Assyrian character of the VIIth century B.C., 
the longest complete inscription consisting of one hundred and 
twenty-one lines, the shortest of twenty-nine lines. They were 
originally copied for Ashurbanipal, king of Assyria from about 
669 to 625 B.C., and were stored in the royal library at Ni¬ 
neveh; many of them contain his name and the colophon which 
it was customary to inscribe on works copied or composed for 
his collection. The tablets are formed of fine clay and have 
been carefully baked, and those that escaped injury at the 
destruction of Nineveh, and have not suffered from the action 
of water during their subsequent interment, are still in good 
preservation. 

The principal contents of the tablets consist of prayers 
and incantations to various deities, which were termed by the 
Assyrians themselves * ‘Prayers of the Lifting of the Hand”. 
It is not difficult to grasp the signification of this title, for the 
act of raising the hand is universally regarded as symbolical 
of invocation of a deity, whether in attestation of an oath, or 



XII 


INTRODUCTION. 


in offering up prayer and supplication. With the Babylonians 
and Assyrians the expression “to raise the hand ’ 1 was fre¬ 
quently used by itself in the sense of offering a prayer, and 
so by a natural transition it came to be employed as a syno¬ 
nym of 4 ‘to pray”, L e. “to. utter a prayer”. Sometimes the 
petition which the suppliant offers is added indirectly, when it 
is usually introduced by aShc\ though this is not invariably 
the case 2 . In other passages the phrase introduces the actual 
words of the prayer, as at the beginning of the prayer of 
Nebuchadnezzar to Marduk towards the end of the East India 
House Inscription 3 . In accordance with this extension of mea¬ 
ning the phrase nis Imti , “the lifting of the hand”, is often found 
in apposition to, or balancing, ikribu, supii , etc,, and in many 
instances it can merely retain the general meaning of “prayer”, 
or “supplication” 1 . In the title of the prayers collected in this 
volume, however, there is no need to divorce the expression 
from its original meaning; while the phrase was employed to 
indicate the general character of the composition, we may pro¬ 
bably see in it a reference to the actual gesture of raising the 
hand during the recital of the prayer 5 . 

The title was appended to each prayer as a colophon-line 
together with the name of the deity to whom the prayer was 
addressed; it is always found following the composition, and is 
enclosed within two lines ruled on the clay by the scribe: — 

1 Of- > e * g-> Annals of Sargon, 1 . 55 f. (WiNCKXER, Die KeihchrifttcxU Sar - 
goiis, I, p. 12): ana Allur blliya allu turri gimilli Mannai ana i$ir Allur *turri 
Izdti allima; and Cyl. B of Esarhaddon, 11 . 3 fT. (Ill R, 15): allu iptl larruti hit 

ahiya . ana Allur Sin Samal Ml Nahu u Mir gal War la Ninua 'War la 

Arid ilu kali allima, 

2 Qf’t e - Sargon Cyl., 1 . 54. 

3 Col. IX, 11 . 45 IT.: ana Marduk hilly a utnm I;dtl alii Marduk hilti mudu 
ildni etc. 

4 In some colophon-lines it is employed in tlie sense of “prayer”, or “in¬ 
cantation”, cf. IV R, pi. 18, no. 2, 1 . 15, and pi. 53 [60], Col. IV, 1 . 29; see also 
IV R, pi. 55 L92], no. 2, Rev., 1 . 6, where the phrase INJMJNIMMA SlJ JL.LA. 
is combined with the usual title of a penitential psalm. 

5 See below, p. 13. On cylinder-seals a suppliant is frequently represented 
with one or both hands raised. 




INTRODUCTION. 


XIII 


The five dots mark the space where the name of the god or 
goddess is inserted. In the case of prayers to astral deities the 

name of the deity is preceded by the determinative KpHF"'’ 
while occasionally the suffix. takes the place of the more 

usual With these exceptions, however, the form of this 

colophon-line is invariably the same 1 and furnishes one of the 
most distinctive characteristics of the present collection of 
texts 2 3 . It may perhaps not unfairly be compared to the title 

if <r- m sm which generally accompanies the 

“Penitential Psalms” together with a note as to whether the 
tablet is to be confined to the worship of a particular deity 
or is suitable for general use. 

A further resemblance to the “Penitential Psalms” may 
be seen in the fact that the “Prayers of the Lifting of the 
Hand” do not form a series of tablets labelled and numbered 
by the Assyrians themselves, such as the Maklii- Series, or the 

Surpu- Series, or the series J»»-. Strictly 

speaking they do not form a series but merely a class of 
tablets, which can, however, be readily distinguished from other 
religious texts not only by their writing and arrangement but 
also by their style and the recurrence of certain fixed colophon¬ 
lines and formulae. A somewhat similar “class” of texts which 
is not a “series 11 may be seen in the “Hymns in paragraphs” 4 5 , 
the greater part of which have been published by Brunnow in 
the Zeitschrift fur AssyrioIogieK The Assyrian prayers to the 
Sun-god published by Knudtzon 6 , which also form a class but 
not a series, can hardly be cited in this connection in view of 
their special scope and character. 

One of the principal guides in the selection of tablets of 

1 In No. 51, 1 . 9 the title is not essentially different, but merely did duty 
for two incantations addressed to the same astral deity. 

2 The colophon-line is very rarely found in texts belonging to other classes; 
but see K 2538 etc. (cf. infra , p. 15); Sm. 290, obv., 1 . 4; Sm. 1025, 1 . 9 ; Sm. 1250, 
1 . 3 > 

3 See ZlMMERN, Bnbylomsche Busspsalmen , pp. I, 53, 66, 81. 

4 Cf. Bezold, Catalogue , passim. 

5 See ZA IV, pp. r ff., 225 ff., and ZA V, pp. 55 ff. 

<> Assyrhche Gebete an den Sonnengott , Leipzig, 1893. 



XIV 


INTRODUCTION. 


this class is to be found in the distinctive colophon-line or title 
already referred to, and the fact that Bezold in his Catalogue 
of the K. Collection has given where possible the colophon¬ 
lines and titles, which occur on religious texts, has proved ot 
material assistance. This title taken in conjunction with certain 
resemblances in the style of the compositions, the shape and 
quality of the tablets and the character of the writing renders 
the recognition of the class comparatively simple. It is true 
that in such a process of selection resemblances in style and 
writing are of no slight importance 1 , but taken by themselves 
they prove unsafe guides; and, although the collection might 
have been largely increased if a resemblance in those two 
particulars had been deemed sufficient to warrant the inclusion 
of a tablet, yet an element of uncertainty would by this plan 
have been necessarily introduced 2 3 . In the first five Sections 
therefore only those tablets are included in which the distinctive 
colophondine occurs. Such has been the method of selection, 
and by its adoption it was found necessary to include a few 
tablets which had been already partly published or referred to. 
Of four of the texts here published in full extracts are to bo 
found in Strassmaier’s Alphabetisches Verseichniss 3; the nearly 


1 A practical illustration of this statement may be seen in the fact that my 
selection of tablets on these principals has resulted in over forty “joins”, and the 
recognition of several duplicates. 

2 Among the fragments thus rejected are some with additional recommen¬ 

dations, e. g. K 3310, 1. 2 of which, the first line of an incantation, agrees, so far 
as it goes, with the catch-line of No. n; K 13231, 1 . 4 of which corresponds to 
the catch-line of No. 16 ; and K 9252, the first line of which corresponds to 1 , 5 
of K 2832 etc., the catalogue of incantations published below. Since printing off 
I have come across a prayer on K 10695 which is probably of the class of 
“Prayers of the Lifting of the Hand”, as 11 . X$ and *4 contain traces of the di¬ 
stinctive colophon-line and rubric; only a few signs of the prayer have been pre¬ 
served, from which it would appear to have been directed against various forms 
of sickness; the tablet, the surface of which has suffered considerably from the 
action of water, must, when complete, have resembled No. 33 in size. The frag¬ 
ment Rm. 446 may possibly have belonged to a “Prayer of the Lifting of the 
Hand to though too little of the tablet has been preserved to admit of a 

certain decision; its colophon of five lines, in which Ashurhanipal names himself the 
son of Esarhaddon, and the grandson of Sennacherib does not occur elsewhere in 
prayers of this class; the fragment Iv. 10757 probably belonged to a similar tablet, 

3 Of K 140, which forms part of the text here published as No. 22, 11 .1—12 



INTRODTJDTION. 


XV 


complete tablet K 163 + K 218 (No. 12) has been published in 
IV R 1 64 and repeated in IV R 2 57, while the reverse of K 2379, 
part of its duplicate which is cited as C, is to be found on 
p. 11 of the Additions to IV R 2 ; finally Bezold in ZA III, p. 250 
has published K 9490, which contains the conclusion of the text 
of No, 50 1 . 

Although the “Prayers of the Lifting of the Hand” do not 
consist of a series of tablets numbered by the Assyrians them¬ 
selves, there are not lacking indications that groups of them 
were arranged in some definite order or sequence. What modi¬ 
fications and changes their original arrangement has undergone 
will be apparent after a brief examination of the data. The 
most obvious indications of arrangement are the catch-lines 
which are found on all the tablets the ends of which have not 
been broken off. As these repeat at the end of one tablet the 
first line of the next, they point to some definite arrangement 
of the texts. The following is a list of those catch-lines which 
have been preserved: — 


1 9 

53 

sip tn 

Mhi muS-ii-Sir kiS-Sat nisi * 1 gi-mir 

nab-ni-ti 

6 , 

132 

Siptu 

1 

Vi 

■*. 

J 


. ■] 

II, 

46 

[Siptu 


git-mci-lu 

Si-tar-Iju 

12, 

121 

znuma 

aniilu kakkad-su ikkal-Su 

lisamt-Su it- 

zak-kat-su 

16, 

12 

[siptu 

.j 

Sami 

u irsiti 

18, 

20 

siptu 

j 

c-v 

SS 

1 

u i - dil 

Uu Igigi 

19 , 

34 

siptu 

ru - Pa - tu rabitu(tu) i 

lat Si - via - a - ti 

21, 

93 

i/u 

Mlu Sii-pu-u git-ma-lum ilani$ l 

ra-sub-bit 

22, 

70 

Siptu 

llu [Na-bi-uni a-sa-ri-du 

bu-kur] 

ilu Mardnk 

29 , 

3 

[Siptu 


bu-kur ilu [. . 

. ■] 

3 °, 

30 

Siptu 

■ 

N 

1 

1 

"Vi 

rat [. . . . 

. ■] 


and 62—66 are cited in AV, nos. 8247, 8297, 8510 and 9071; of K 155 (No, 1), 
11 . I—10, 23—25 and 43—45 are given in AV, nos. 6700, 7845, 8063 and 8297; 
of IC 2396, which contains part of the text of No. S, 11 . 22—24 are quoted in 
AV, no. 6043; and of K 3283, a duplicate of No. 11, 11 . 6—10 are given in AV, 
nos. 7586 and 8483. 

1 For the quotations made by Sayce, Delitzsch and Schrader from K 
2836 (a dupl. of No. 27) and K 3358 (No. 32), see Bezold, Catalogue , pp. 480, 
526. Moreover Delitzsch, in the first two parts of his Handworterbuch which 
have at present appeared, quotes from K155 (No. 1), and Tallqvist in Die assy- 
rischc Beschwvrungsserie Maqlu cites passages from K, 235 (No. 11). 

c 2 










XVI 


INTRODUCTION. 


33* 47 
35> i5 
36, 10 
38, 5 
4 1 ? 3 

42, 26 

47 > 8 
48, 17 

50, 29 


[Siptu . ] Sar-rat hib-ra-a-ti i-ht bi-h-i-ti 

[siptu .J sciJi Q) ki-bzt ana A.BA L DA.RA 

[siptu . iltt ]Igigi butulctu &a-sz-[. .J 

Siptu Sur - [. .J 

[sip tu . ] Sarru ni-vd-ki ba-nu-u ta-Sim-U 

siptu ilw Mardnk bilu ralm [. . ] 

[Siptu . J gas - ru - u - ti 

siptu bilu Sur-bu-u sa ina Samid Sil-lub-bu-Su illu 
Siptu at-ta kakkahu KAK,SLDI ilu NINIR a-Sa-rid ilani pl 

rabut id 1 

Siptu Sarru Uani * 1 gaS-ru-u-ti Sa nap-bar ma-a-ti Su-pu-u 

iht IMINA.BI at-tu-nu-ma 


Even fewer beginnings of tablets have been preserved. In the 
following list, however, the first line of any incantation, without 
regard to its position on the tablet, is included for comparison 


with the catch-lines given above: — 

1, 1 Siptu Uu Sin ilH Nannaru ru-Su-bu u - [. . J 

1, 29 Siptu kit - rid - tu Uu IS - tar ka - nu - ut i - [Id - a - ti] 

2, 11 Siptu ap - hi gaS - ru hu - kur tlu Bil 


2, 43 [Siptu . J kib-ra-a-ti i - lat bl-li-l-ti 

3, 10 [Siptu ap-Iu gaS-ru] bu-kur xlu Bil k Sur-bu-u gii-ma-lu 

iditdi LSAR.RA 

4, 9 Siptu ilu Dam - hi - na Sar - rat kal ilani* l Id - tfz 

4, 24 [Siptu ilu Bdit] 61 /tu Sur-bu-tu a-Si-bat Samid [illiitH[J 

5, 11 [Siptu] led - rid - turn llu lS - tar ka - nu - ut i-ht- a-lit] 

6 , 1 Siptu bilu Sur - bu - [u . J 

6, 18 Siptu ilw Nusku Sur - [bu - it i - lit - ti Dur - ilu hJ J 

6, 36 Siptu Uu Sin na - [. . J 

6, 71 Siptu ilu Bau biltu Sur-budum ummu ri-mi-[ni-tum a]-Si- 

bat Samid illiiti 1 ' 1 

6, 97 Siptu Sur-bu-u git-ma-[lu a-hi-rum Uu Marduk ../ 

7, 9 Siptu tlu Bi-lit Hi biltu Sur-[bu-tum ummu ri-mi-ni-tum a- 

Si-bat Sami-i illiitiB] 

7, 34 Siptu kakkal>n lsljara [ . .] 

8, 22 Siptu at-tu-nu kakkabdni Sar-hu-tum Sa mu-[. ../ 

9, 1 [Siptu ga - dS - ru Szi - pu - u l - dil ahl ASSur] 

9, 28 [Siptu . J sir-turn SA. TAR i-j ../ 

10, 7 Siptu Sur-bu-u git-ma-lu a-bl-rum iltl Marduk /../ 





















INTRODUCTION. 


XVII 


II, 

1 

[Siptu] 

12, 

1 

mum a 

12, 

17 

siptu 1 

12, 

105 

siptu a 

13 , 

15 

[siptu] 

14 , 


[siptu 

20, 

8 

siptu 

21, 

34 

[siptu] 

21, 

76 

[Siptu] 

22, 

1 

siptu 

22, 

35 

Siptu 

27 , 

1 

Siptu l 

28, 

7 

[Siptu 

31 , 

11 

[Siptu 

32 , 

6 

[Siptu 

33 , 

1 

[Siptu 

37 , 

7 

[Siptu 

39 , 

6 

[Siptu 

46, 

11 

Siptu ll 

50 , 

1 

[Siptu 


karradu ilu Marduk Sa i - sis - sit a - bu - bu 
lumun mursi DI.PAL.A ZI.TAR.RU.DA 
KA.LU.BI.DA dub bubu ana amilu ul itiJji 

u Mardnk Ml matati Sal-[ba-bu . J-ru-bu 

l -ta AN.HUL ma-sar Sulmi(nu) sa tlu l-a u tln Marduk 

bi-lum llu Marduk mu-di-i [. . ] 

. J - &u 

Sur - bu - u git - ma - lu [ . J 

Sur - bu - 7 i [. .J 

llu Rammdnu [. . .] -ta-as-nu Su-pu-u 

ilu gaS-ru 

mbit aSaridu bu - kur tlu Marduk 

bit nu - ni ab - kal [. . ] - u 

z-lum gas-ru ti-iz-ka-[ru bu-knr llu NU.NAM.NIR] 

. J - u ilu ri - mi - nu - u 

. JGI.GI bu-uk-rat ilu Sin ti-li-tii 

.J - na lln lstar ka-rid-ti i-ld-a-[ti] 

. .]-su-su i-lat mu-na-[. . .] 

.. Mltu] Sur-bu-tum ummu ri-mi-ni- 

ium a-[si-bat Sami-i illutP 1 ] 
. ] kakkabanil 1 i-lat sar-[. . J 


kakkabu 


SIB.ZI.AN.NA 


u irsitim(tim) 


■] 


A glance will show that not many lines in the two lists cor¬ 
respond. In fact, of the twenty-one catch-lines that have been 
preserved only one corresponds to the first line of any of the 
tablets, it being probable that No. 29, 1. 3 should be restored 
from No. 27, 1 . i 1 ; the catch-line of No. 48 may indeed refer to 
No. 6, 1 . 1, though this is far from certain as only two words 
of the latter have been preserved. A comparison of the catch¬ 
lines therefore with the beginnings of the tablets does not throw 
much light on the question of their original order. Some few 
of the catch-lines, however, may possibly be referred to incan¬ 
tations which do not occur at the beginnings of tablets; the 
catch-line of No. 11, for instance, may possibly correspond to 


1 Cf. infra , p. 92. 




















XVIII 


INTRODUCTION. 


No. 14, 1 . 14, or that of No. 16 1 to No. 46, 1 . 11, or that of 
No. 30 to No. 31, 1 . 11. The catch-line of No. 33 may perhaps 
represent a variant form of No. 2, 1 . 43, while the catch-line of 
No. 38, of which only the first sign has been preserved, might 
equally well be referred to No. 6, 1 . 97, No. 10, 1 .7, No. 20, 1 . 8, 
or No. 21, 1,34. But, even if these instances of correspondence 
were certain, they would not assist us in our inquiry, as in the 
case of each the context of the catch-line does not correspond 
to that of the incantation to which it is assumed to refer; in 
other words, the incantation or ceremonial section, which the 
catch-line in question follows, is not the same as that prece¬ 
ding the incantation, to the first line of which the catch-line 
corresponds. The only inference therefore that can be drawn 
from these facts is that the texts have undergone various 
changes and rearrangements at the hands of editors or redac¬ 
tors before they were copied by the scribes of Ashurbanipal. 

In this connection it may be of interest to refer to an 
Assyrian catalogue of incantations that has been preserved on 
K 2832 -f K 6680 2 , as some of the first lines of compositions 
cited in Col. I of that tablet correspond to certain of the catch¬ 
lines and first lines of the present collection of texts. Col. II 
contains the beginnings of seven incantations which are ad¬ 
dressed in the main to the Sun-god and probably have no 
reference to the “Prayers of the Lifting of the Hand”; the end 
of the last column, which is all that has been preserved of the 
reverse of the tablet is uninscribed. In Col. I, the text of which 
is given on the opposite page, it will be seen that 1. 7 corresponds 
to the catch-line of No. 18, and 1 . 12 to the remains of the catch¬ 
line of No. 42,-while 1.11 is identical with the first line of No. 9; 
the first line of the tablet, moreover, contains the name of the 
series to which No. 1, according to its colophon, belongs. It is, 
of course, possible that all the incantations enumerated in this 
column of the tablet belong to the class of texts here collected, 


1 It is possible that No. 16 and No. 42 are parts of the same tablet, as is 
suggested by Bezold, Catalogue , p. 1186; in that case the catch-line so formed 
would not correspond to No. 46, 1 . 11. 

2 See below, p. 15. Catalogues of tablets containing forecasts, mythological 
legends, etc. testify to the activity of the Assyrian scribes in the collection and 
classification of other classes of texts. 



INTRODUCTION. 


XIX 


IS 



HF- -II * 

I-Hf" ^T- K 

HF--^TTT 


=11 




M- tTTH ft tin J[ *- < tTF ! -ft V? FT 
ft-dll M -=T 


►-H* 


I-ftsTIkft*in,ET¥-<*C-ft<-=TTA 

-ft-*m El .-^T 

I-ft ^TTH ft till .H ¥- < cTF -< -tTT A 
I-ft -ft- «*T -II El- < -ft Cf*®' 
I->f <Ss: Aft -=H Jft**** 

%*T E -TH cAtl till ef * 1 % 
tllliVHf-ft «1 HIeT- <IH| 


SSPSow^ 


I-ft »W *- < cTF -< -ft r rptlS'“ 
I-ft -ft 


-S- 4 : 


iS 


though, in that case, they have not yet been recognised, and are 
perhaps not preserved in the collections from Kuyunjik. It is 
equally possible that the incantations, apart from those already 
identified, have no connection with the “Prayers of the Lifting 
of the Hand”. In the latter case the tablet affords striking 
proof of the manner in which scribes, either before or at the 


1 This character is partly effaced. 










XX 


INTRODUCTION, 


time of Ashurbanipal, re-edited the older collections and classes 
of tablets to which they had access. 

The evidence afforded by an examination of their catch¬ 
lines and first lines leads therefore to the conclusion that the 
tablets, which have come down to us, have been subjected to 
several processes of editing, the incantations having been from 
time to time collected, selected and rearranged. A noteworthy 
instance of the way in which a favourite incantation was re¬ 
copied and employed in various connections is presented by 

the address to a goddess which begins: Siptu . biltu hir- 

biitu ummiL riniiniium aSibat Sami illutu In No. 6, 11 . 71 ff., where 
it is addressed to the goddess Ba n, it is preceded by a prayer 
to Sin and followed by one probably to Sama$, in the dupli¬ 
cate D it is preceded by some directions for ceremonies, while 
it forms the first prayer on the tablet which is cited as the 
duplicate E; in No. 7, 11 . 9 ff. we find the title Bilit Hi in the 
place of the name of the goddess Ban, the incantation is fol¬ 
lowed by one to the astral deity Js&ara, and it is set aside for 
use only during an eclipse of the moon; in No. 4 the version 
presents so many differences that it practically forms a fresh 
incantation. This is the history, so far as it can be ascertained, 
of one incantation, and the evidence afforded by the duplicates 
of other tablets is very similar. 

Other evidence of this process of editing is to be found 
in the fact that some tablets are labelled as belonging to cer¬ 
tain series. No. 1, for instance, is stated to be a tablet of the 

series -TTTT O <m' ; though the scribe has omitted to fill 
in the number of the tablet; No. 30 is the 134th tablet of the 

series hp- m the rest of its title being broken; and No. 48 
forms the eighth part of the composition 4?T : J*“ ►df 

Possibly in the first, and certainly in the second of these cases, 
the series was a composite one made up of various classes of 
texts, for it is not necessary to conclude from the evidence of 
No. 30 that the other 133 or more tablets missing from that 
series were all “Prayers of the Lifting of the Hand”; more 
probable is the supposition that this class of tablets was merely 


1 See below, pp. r 4 ff. 



INTRODUCTION. 


XXI 


one of several classes laid under contribution by the compilers 
of the series. 

A still further indication of editing- may be seen in the 
colophons with which the tablets conclude. It is true the 
majority of them end with the formula which is commonly 
found on tablets from AshurbanipaPs library, and which may 
be translated as follows: “The palace of Ashurbanipal, Icing' 
of the world, king of Assyria, who in Assur and Bilit puts his 
trust, on whom Nabu and 7 asmitu have bestowed broad ears, 
who has acquired clear eyes. The valued products of the 
scribe's art, such as no one among the kings who have gone 

before me had acquired, the wisdom of Nabu .. as much 

as exists, I have inscribed on tablets, I have arranged in groups 1 , 
I have revised, and for the sight of my reading have set in my 
palace, I, the ruler, who knoweth the light of Assur , the king 
of the gods. Whosoever carries off (this tablet), or with my 
name inscribes his own name, may Assur and Bilit in wrath 
and anger cast him down, and destroy his name and seed in 
the land!" This colophon is by no means universal however, 
for we find shorter ones on Nos. n and 33, while Nos. 18, 35, 
38 and 41 present various differences to the normal conclusion, 
and No, 10 merely contains the note that the tablet was copied 
from an older original. The reason that no colophons occur 
on Nos. 19, 29 and 50, the ends of which are left blank, is to 
be sought in the fact that these tablets contain single prayers 
extracted from the larger tablets for some temporary purpose 2 . 
The evidence of catch-lines, duplicates, series and colophons 
therefore all leads to the same conclusion, that the tablets are 
not arranged on one plan but have undergone several redac¬ 
tions, and it is obvious that any attempt to restore the original 
order would be fruitless. 

It was necessary therefore to arrange them for publi¬ 
cation on some other principle, and the plan adopted has been 
to classify them according to the deities to whom the prayers 
and incantations are addressed. The fact that while some of 

1 See DELITZSCH, Handworterbuch , p. 182. 

2 K 3332 (the dupl. A of No. 1), and K 2836 -j- K 6593 (the dupl. A of 
No. 27), which are also without colophons, contain similar extracts. These ex¬ 
tracts from the longer texts are inscribed on small tablets in rather large characters. 

d 




XXIV 


INTRODUCTION. 


is insufficient to determine what gods the private Assyrians and 
Babylonians were privileged to regard as their patron deities. 
It is possible a solution of the question might be obtained from 
a study of the cylinder-seals, on which the owner, after stating 
his own name and that of his father frequently adds the name 
of the god of whom he is the servant 1 2 3 ; meanwhile it may be 
permissible to speculate whether each class or trade had not 
its own patron deity, who was also regarded as peculiarly the 
god of each member of that class. 

We know that each city had its local god, who in prayers 
sometimes takes the place of the suppliant’s patron deity % and 
it may be that a similar localization of deities existed with 
regard to the different trades and classes of society. Possibly 
this suggestion may serve to explain in some degree the vari¬ 
ous pairs and groups of deities whose blessings are invoked 
by the senders of letters on behalf of their correspondents. It 
is improbable that these gods were selected merely at the fancy 
of the writer, and it is easier to suppose that his choice was 
restricted either by law or custom to the deities who were con¬ 
nected with his own class or profession. A striking instance 
in point may be seen in the letters K 501, K 538, 83—1 — 18, 35 
and 80—7—19,23 written by Arad-Naim to the king^; as the 
letters deal with religious matters it may be assumed that Arad- 
Nabu was a priest, and the fact that he invokes such a long 
list of important deities would on the above assumption be an 

1 The assumption that the god mentioned on a cylinder-seal is always the 
owner’s patron deity is not quite certain. That amulets could be worn which 
were dedicated to other than patron deities is proved by the Assyrian amulet, 
95—4—8, I. On this little cylinder of clay the owner SamaWIhhii addresses an 
incantation to the astral deity Kak-si-di in the course of which he states he is the 
son of his god, with whom it is evident the deity Kak-si-di is not to he identified. 

2 Of- K- 2493, b *7 [ana-ku puhhnt apUj puhlni ht flu ul/dui H"Munltth 

tluj$f ar ali-iu . 

3 The introductory phrases on 83 —i~i 8, 35 rea d as follows: tt-na iarrf 
MU-ya arad-ka ^AradJ^Nabu In hdmvfmv) a-na iarri Idli-ya AUur > r ^Sm SV 
mtt * tltl Marduk ilu Zar-pa-m-tum f lu Nabu Hu Tai-ml turn HupuarU alu Nfmta Hufttar 
M «l*Arbariln ildnfM an-nu-ti rahutiPl ra-*-mu-U Urru-il-ka 0 lamltitt a-nu Urn 
bili-ya lu-bal-hf-fu h-hu-tu Ht-tn-lu a-na iarri bili-ya lu-lah-hl-ti mu-star htl-tnf u 
ba-la-ti [maj libbi iarri Hh-ya Up-ld-dit. K 5m has a similar introduction, while 
m K53S and 80-7 — 19,23 Sin is the only god omitted from the list. 




INTRODUCTION. 


XXV 


indication of his high rank and position. It may be urged 
against this theory that the same writer does not invariably 
invoke the same gods; many explanations might be offered of 
this fact, it being conceivable that the letters in question were 
written at different periods of a man’s career, or that certain 
higher positions included the privileges and rights of those 
beneath them, or that a man of higher rank in addressing a 
subordinate would not refer to his own gods but invoke those 
of the latter. However this may be, it is perhaps not impos¬ 
sible that in prayers and incantations the naming of a suppli¬ 
ant’s god and goddess was to his contemporaries equivalent to 
a declaration of his rank and position in the state. 

Following the formula in which the suppliant states his 
own name and those of his patron deities we frequently find 
in ‘‘Prayers of the Lifting of the Hand” a statement that the 
occasion on which the prayer is delivered is after an eclipse 
of the moon, the formula usually running as follows: — 

in a luniun llu atali tlu Sin sa ina arfoi pulani umi pulani 
isakna(na) | himun idati ^ 1 ittati pl limnitila tabati ^ 1 \ Sa 
ina ikalli-ya u mati-ya ibasa-a 1 

The tablets on which the formula occurs can only have been 
intended for the use of the king, for no private individual could 
address a god “in the evil of an eclipse of the moon which in 
such and such a month on such and such a day has taken 
place, in the evil of the powers, of the portents, evil and not 
good which are in my palace and my land”. It is probable, 
however, that only the formula, and not the prayer or incan¬ 
tation itself, was composed for the eclipse. A great body of 
religious texts and incantations, containing general petitions for 
deliverance from evil influences and magical powers, would be 
quite suitable for use after such a calamity, and all that was 
needed in addition was a formula which could be inserted with 


1 See pp. 7 ff. On p. io it is suggested that the ideogram ITl in the sense 
of “portent”, should be rendered by ittu but this rendering was not adopted in 
the transliteration as I was unaware on what grounds Delitzsch based his ren¬ 
dering takiltu. When the early sheets of the transliteration had been printed off 
the first part of the Handworterbtich appeared in which ittu takes the place of 
his former rendering of the ideogram. 



XXVI 


INTRODUCTION. 


the necessary details of the month and day on which the eclipse 
had taken place. Such a formula is the one cited above, and 
the fact that it is found in some copies of the same prayer but 
omitted in others proves that it could be added or removed at 
pleasure. Thus in the copy of the prayer to Ninib which was 
made from No. 2 for the use of Ashurbanipal (cf. supra) the 
eclipse-formula has been inserted between the sixteenth and 
seventeenth lines of the prayer, and the same insertion has been 
made in K 2836 the duplicate of No. 27 which is cited as A . 
The prayer to Bdu on No. 6 does not contain the formula, 
neither does it occur in the duplicate D; we find it, however, 
in the same prayer on No. 7, and in the duplicate E it occurs 
together with a statement of the suppliant's name etc* It is 
absent from the last prayer on No. 6, but it has been inserted 
in the duplicate F where it is also preceded by the suppliant's 
name and those of his god and goddess The eclipse-formula 
may therefore be regarded as forming no essential part of any 
prayer or incantation; in fact, some of the passages in which 
it occurs would be improved by its omission as it interrupts 
the rythm or metre of the lines on either side of it. 

A word must be said on the metre in which the “Prayers 
of the Lifting of the Hand" are composed. It has long been 
known that the poetical compositions of the Babylonians were 
cast in general in a rough form of verse and half-verse; Gunicrl 
and Zimmern, however, were the first to trace in detail the 
existence of a regular metre T , pointing out that each verse con¬ 
tained a definite number of accented syllables or rythmical beats 
by which it was divided, each division or foot of the verse consist¬ 
ing of single words, or of two or three short connected words, 
e. g. particles with the words that follow them, words joined by 
the construct state, etc. Zimmern further drew attention to the tact 
that the metre was frequently indicated by the grouping of signs 
on the tablet, and that in publishing a text it was consequently of 
great importance to reproduce the exact position and form of this 
characters. In the plates, therefore, I have endeavoured to give 
as far as possible a facsimile of the original tablets. It will be 

1 See Zimmern, Bin mrlchtftges Wort it her baby Ion ische Blelrik , 7A V 1,1,1 

pp. 121 ff. 



INTRODUCTION. 


XXVII 


seen, however, that only in a comparatively few instances is 
the metre indicated in this manner, and the evidence of dupli¬ 
cates goes to show that different scribes attached different de¬ 
grees of importance to the symmetrical arrangement of their 
lines. For instance, the carefully marked arrangement of No. i, 
11 . i—8, containing the invocation of Sin , is not reproduced in 
the duplicates K 3332 and Sm. 1382, nor is the form of the 
lines on No. 18 retained by the duplicate K 6804. 

If, however, we apply to the prayers and incantations the 
rules which Zimmern has adduced from a study of Sp. II, 265# 1 , 
we find that great sections of the various tablets fall naturally 
into the four-divisioned metre. This regular metre is, however, 
frequently interrupted by a line of only three feet or divisions; 
for instance four fifths of the prayer to Ninib on No. 2 consist 
of four feet, the remaining fifth of three feet. In many cases, 
moreover, the lines, though possessing a certain rythm cannot 
be regarded as composed in metre. The conclusion to which 
we are led, therefore, is that the “Prayers of the Lifting of the 
Hand”, though occasionally running into regular metre, are not 
subject to the strict rules which apply to the poetry of the 
Babylonians. It is perhaps not improbable that this irregularity 
was intentional on the part of their composers. In the recital 
of a prayer or incantation the irregular lines would form a 
striking contrast or foil to those in metre, and the combination 
would serve to mark the suppliants varying degrees of exaltation. 

The “Prayers of the Lifting of the Hand” are frequently 
accompanied by directions for the performance of ceremonies 
and the observance of certain rites. The paragraphs containing 
these directions are separated from the incantations by lines 
ruled on the clay by the scribe and they generally commence 
with the words ipns annam “Do the following” 2 . Their length 
varies considerably, ranging from rubrics of one line to sections 
of fifteen lines. The rubric of one line which is characteristic 
of the “Prayers of the Lifting of the Hand” is generally found 
closely following the title of the prayer, from which it is divided 
by a line on the clay: — 


1 Cf. Zimmern, Weiteres zur babylonhchen Metnk , ZA X, pp, I fF. 

2 Cf. infra> p. 19. 



XXVIII 


INTRODUCTION. 


-sfcj -tfcj El M tnw® r »T. 

^ a W - c e :-t m - t tr- s?i 

It will be seen that after the introductory phrase the rubric 
refers to two alternative rites which are to be performed in 
connection with the recital of the prayer 1 . On one occasion" 
we find this rubric directly following the incantation, and it is 
there expanded into two lines by the additional injunction that 
the incantation is to be recited before Sibziana , an addition 
rendered necessary by the omission of the title. 

Ceremonial sections of two lines are not uncommon. They 
are sometimes combined with the title which they follow with¬ 
out a break 3 , containing two or three directions to the effect 
that incense is to be set before the god or goddess, a libation 
to be offered, and the incantation to be recited so many times; 
or they may follow the title from which they are divided by a 
division-line 4 ; or finally they may follow a longer section of 
ceremonies when they contain additional rites to be performed 
in connection with those that precede them 3 . Sections of three 
lines, which are also common, generally follow the title 6 , though 
they are sometimes found in combination with longer ceremonial 
sections 7 . Not so common are sections of four lines, which 
follow the title and are not found in connection with other 
sections 8 . The longer sections of five®, six 10 , seven 11 , ten 12 , 
fourteen 13 , and fifteen 14 lines give directions for offerings in 

1 See below p. 71 f., where Hie rubric is more fully discussed and a list of 
the passages given where it occurs. 

2 No. 52, 1 . 3 f. 

3 Nos. 2, 1 . 9 f.; 6, 1 . 95 f.; $, 1 . 20 f. 

4 Nos. 13, I. 13 f.; 14, 1. 12 f. 

5 No. 12, 11 . 101 f., 103 f. 

C Nos. 21, 11 . 73 IT.; 31, 11. 8 IF.; 32, 11 . 3 (V.; 36, 11 . 7 IF.; 44, 11 . 3 (V. 

7 Nos. 21, 11 . 25 ff.j 33, 11. 44 IF. 

8 Nos. 11, 11 . 42 IT.; 22, 11 . 31 IF. 

9 Nos. 12, 11 . 96 ff.; 33, 11. 39 ff, 

10 Nos. 12, 11 . 115 fT ; 15, 11. 18 IF.; 21, 11. 28 IF. 

11 Nos. 26, 11 . 4 fT.; 51, 11. 10 IF. 

12 No. 30, 11 . 20 fT. 

13 No. 40, 11 . 3 IF. 

14 No. 12, 11 . 2 fT, 




INTRODUCTION. 


XXIX 


greater detail, while some 1 cannot be classified as in each case 
only the beginning has been preserved. 

By far the commonest injunction in these ceremonial sec¬ 
tions is one to the effect that the recital of the incantation is 
to be accompanied by the burning of incense. The formula 

usually reads “a censer of incense before the god.shalt 

thou set”, though sometimes the kind of incense to be employed 
is specified, and at other times the wood is mentioned, from 
which, when lighted, the censers are to be kindled. Certain 
drink-offerings and libations are also of common occurrence. 
It is from the longer sections, however, that we learn in greater 
detail the objects suitable for offering to a god. Water, honey, 
and butter are frequently mentioned together in the lists of 
offerings; directions occur for laying before the god dates, 
garlic, corn and grain, while various flowers, plants and herbs 
play a conspicuous part both in the offerings and the ritual. 
Offerings of various kinds of flesh are sometimes specified, while 
fragments of gold, lapis-lazuli, alabaster etc . might be presented 
by the suppliant. Pure water and oil are constantly mentioned 
in the ceremonial sections; the former might be simply offered 
in a vessel before the god, or used for sprinkling a green bough 
in his presence; the latter might also form the subject of an 
offering, or be used for anointing, or be placed in an open 
vessel into which various objects were thrown. In No. n, for 
example, the seed of the mastakal -plant is ordered to be cast 
into oil, while in No. 12 the priest is to place oil in a vessel 
of nrkarinnu -wood and then cast into it fragments of plaster, 
gold, the binu- plant, the ma$takal-j)\ant, and other plants and 
herbs. When the rite of casting things into oil is to be per¬ 
formed, the amount of oil to be used is generally mentioned, 
and sometimes the kind of oil to be employed. The rite of the 
knotted cord 2 frequently accompanies the “Prayers of the Lift¬ 
ing of the Hand”, and on one occasion the rite is followed 
by a magical formula; in No. 12, a tablet intended for the use 
of a sick man, when the priest loosens the knot he is to utter 
the words la umcfiranni , after which the sick man is to return 


1 Nos. 15, 11 . 24 ff.; 17, 11 . 6ff.; 23, 11 . 7 ff. ; 24, 11 . 5 ff.; 25, 11 . 6 ff. 

2 See below, p. 71 f. 




XXX 


INTRODUCTION. 


to his house without looking backward. The occasions on 
which the tablets might be used are sometimes specified in the 
ceremonial sections; Nos. 12 and 31, for instance, are to be 
used at night, No. 30 on a favourable day, No. 24 during a 
certain phase of the moon, and No. 2t at night when the wind 
is in a certain quarter. The use of the majority of the tablets, 
however, appears to have been unrestricted. 

It will be seen, therefore, that the ceremonies which ac¬ 
company the “Prayers of the lifting of the Hand” in general 
character resemble those which occur on other classes of cere¬ 
monial and religious texts. They were not merely symbols, 
but were regarded as potent in themselves, and, as the efficacy 
of an incantation depended on its correct recital, so their power 
resulted from a scrupulous performance of each detail. They 
are, with one exception, written after the prayer or incantation 
they accompany, but in most cases they describe rites which 
are to be performed before the recitation of the prayer. The 
god or goddess must be propitiated by the necessary gifts 
before the suppliant is in a position to make his appeal in the 
divine presence; the altar must be loaded with offerings and 
the censers lighted before the words of the incantation can take 
effect. 



LIST OF TABLETS. 


I. PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GROUPS OF DEITIES: — 

1. Sin, Istar and TaStmtu . 

2. Ninib, Ta§mitu and another goddess . . . 

3. Ninib and Damkina . 

4. Ia, Damkina and Ba 3 u . .. 

5. Di-kud and IStar . 

6. Ann, Nusku, Sin, Ba’u and Samas. 

7. Bilit ili, I^ara and a god . 

8. Istar and certain stars. 

9. Marduk and Bilit ili . 

10. Marduk and Samas . 

II. PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS: — 

1. Marduk. 

2. Bil . 

3. Ramm&n . 

4. Nabd . 

5 * Sin . 

6. Nirgal . 

III. PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODDESSES: — 

1. Sa-la .. . . 

2. Istar . 

3. Tasmitu ... . . . 

4. Mi-mi ... 

5. Bilit . 

IV. PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO DEITIES "WHOSE NAMES 

HAVE NOT BEEN PRESERVED. 

V. PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO ASTRAL DEITIES: — 

1. Mugtabarrti-mfltctnu . 

2. Mul-mul. 

3. Kak-si-di . 

4. Sibziana. 

VI. PRAYERS AGAINST THE EVILS ATTENDING AN ECLIPSE 

OF THE MOON . 


No. 


i 1 

4 . 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 —18 
19 

20—21 
22 

23—26 
27—28 


29 

30—32 

33 

34 

35 

36—45 


46 

47—48 

49 

50—52 


53—62 





























Transliteration Translations 
and Notes. 

Section I. 

Prayers addressed to Groups of Deities. 

The plan on which the following pages have been arranged 
requires perhaps a word of explanation. The tablets are num¬ 
bered and are here treated in the same order as they occur 
in the plates at the end of the volume. I have not divided 
the Transliteration, Translations and Notes into three separate 
Sections, as I believe the theoretical simplicity of such an ar¬ 
rangement is purchased at a great practical disadvantage, the 
constant reference from one part of the book to another tend¬ 
ing rather to weary than assist the reader. To reduce this 
inconvenience as far as possible I have collected together all 
the matter referring to each tablet. A full transliteration of 
the text is first given which is followed by a description and 
translation of the prayers, incantations and ceremonies that it 
contains. The notes follow the translation, the numbers at the 
head of each paragraph referring to the line of the text with 
which the note in question deals. 

In the Transliteration those portions of the text that have 
been restored are placed within square brackets, while the signs 
within round brackets always denote phonetic complements. 
Variant readings are given at the foot of the page, the dupli¬ 
cate tablets being cited by the capitals A, B, C etc., the regis¬ 
tration numbers of which are in each case given in the first 

B 



2 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


footnote to the cuneiform text. In transliterating a well pre¬ 
served tablet I have commenced a fresh line with each line ot 
the text and have endeavoured to retain as far as possible the 
original spacing and arrangement of the words as they stand 
on the tablet itself. As however in the case of broken tablets 
such an arrangement would lead to a considerable waste of 
space, I have let the transliteration of those tablets run on 
continuously, putting between each line a space of five dots if 
only one character is missing and ten dots to indicate a gap 
of two or more characters. When the text of such a broken 
or badly preserved tablet is insufficient to furnish an intelligible 
translation I have abstained from attempting one; in every case 
however a transliteration of the text is given, each word of 
which is cited in the Vocabulary. 

The texts have been divided into Sections, which are 
to some extent explained by their titles. The first Section, 
consisting of Nos. i—io, is composed of tablets on each of 
which are inscribed separate prayers to two or more deities. 
In some cases (Nos. 3, 5 and 9) there remain prayers ad¬ 
dressed only to one god and goddess but from No. 6 it would 
appear probable that originally four or five deities shared the 
prayers inscribed on each of these tablets. It is possible that 
some fragmentary texts, at present containing a single prayer 
or incantation and therefore classified under Sections II and III, 
formed part of a large tablet which when complete contained 
addresses to various deities, and which would accordingly fall 
under the present heading. The fact however that such frag¬ 
ments present no distinctive characteristic by which they may 
be detected renders hazardous any attempt at separating them 
from the texts addressed solely to one god or goddess. Under 
these circumstances the only practicable course was to ignore 
the possibility of their belonging to the first section and to 
classify them according to their present contents. 1 


1 For a fuller discussion of the classification of the texts rf. Introduction, 



PRAYER TO THE MOON-GOD ETC. 


Obv. 

1. 

2 . 
3 * 
4 * 
5 * 
6 . 

7* 

8 . 

9 * 

10 . 

11. 

12 . 
13 * 

i 4 * 

I 5* 
16. 
17* 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23* 

24. 

25 - 

26. 

27* 

28. 


No. 1 . 

Transliteration. 

siptu lLu Sin llu Nannam ni-su-bu u- . 

llll Sm id-dis-m-u mu-nam-mir . 

sd-ki-in na-mir-ti a-na nisi* l . 

ana nisi pz sal-mat kakkadu us-su-ru sa- . 

nam-rat urru-ka in a sami-i . 

sar-Jjai di-pa-ra-ka kima ilu Gibil . 

ma-lu-u nam-ri-ru-ka irsita(ta) rapasta f. ) 

sar-fea nisi$ l uk-ta-sa-ra ana a-ma-ri-ka . 

llu A-nim saini-i sa la i-lam-ma-du mi-lik-su ma- . 

su-tu-rat urru-ka kima llu Samas bu-tik-ri- . 

kan-sa pani-ka Uani* 1 rabuti^ 1 purns matati sakin(in) ina pani-ka 
ina lumnii llu atali llu Sin sa ina arlji pulani umipulani isakna(na) 
Inmun idati$ l ITI.MIS limniti* 1 la taba0 l sa ina ikalli-ya u 

mati-ya ibasa-a 

ilanirabuti* 1 i-sal-lu-ka-ma tanadin(m) mil-ka 

izzizii pu-faur-su-nu its-ta-mu-u ina sapli-ka 

llu Sin su-pu-ii sa T.KUR i-sal-lu-ka-ma ta-mit ilani^ 1 tanadin(in) 

bubbuhim u-um ta-mit-ti-ka pi-ris-ti ilanirabutijp l ] 

umu XXX KAN i-sin -71 a-k a u-um ta-sil-ti ilu-ti-[ka] 

llu Nainrasit i-muk la sa-7ta-an sa la i-lam-ma-du mi-lik-su 

ma- . 

as-ruk-ka si-rik miisi lallartu ak-ki-ka ri-is-ta-a si-kar . 

kan-sa-ku az-za-az a-si--ka ka- . 

ka-sa dum-ki u mi-sa-ri sukim(un) ili-[ya] 

ili-ya u tlu istari sd is-tu u-um ma-du-ti is-bu-su . 

ina kit-ti u misari lis-li-mu itti-ya S ur-fyi lid-mi-ik fyad-is 

7ii -. 

u-7na--ir-77ta ilu ZA* GAR ilu sa sundtip 1 ] 

ina sat 77tusi KAB.MIS d7'-ni-ya lu-us-mi sir-ti lu-ta- . 

a7ia dd-ra-ti lud-lul dd-li-li-[ka] 

INIM. INIM. MA SU 1L.LA ilu Sin.[KAN] ~ 

Siptu ka-rid-tu 1 iZu Is-tar ka-7iu-ut i-[ld-a-ti] 


29. 


1 B Iza-rid-izim . 

















4 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


30. LI.BAR 1 sami-i 21 irsiti(ti ) 2 Sa-ru-ru kibratip'Ji 

0i.- in-niu-na 4 bu-uk-[rat] a "Stn i-hl-tip^'NIN-lGAIj 

32. -viat s dar-ri [sii-ml-i'] ku-ra-dP a "Samas . 

33. [ n “Is-tar] a-nu-[ti-vid 1 Sami-i] 'd-bi-ii-[lij & 

34. [. . ilu BU [ma-li-ki ta-di-]im-2iu da- . 


35. [. . . . .-mu] ba-un-[tu? . u . -tu dan- . 

Ivev. * 

36. [. . pl ru-ku-tu tu-Sak]-na panu-[ki ./ 


37 . VWTaS-mi-tim ilat(atp su-pi u da-di bi-lit . 

38 . [auaj-ku puldmi apil pulani Sa ilu-Su pulann lVn iStar-Su pu- 

lanitum[(tuin)J 

39 . ina lumun iln atali ilu Sin sa ina a/pi pulani umi pulani 

isakna[(na)] 

40 . lumun iddti pl 1 TLMIS limniti * 1 la tabati pl hi ina ikalli-yk u 

mati-a ibaSa-[al 

41 . as bur-Id iwid-ki Si-nu-i a-ra-ti 10 

42 . a-na illl Nabu pa- -i-ri-ki 11 bilu aSaridu mart riS-ti-i Sa 

LSAGJLA a-hu-ti $ab-[ti-nia] 

43 . I is-mi zik-ri ina Id-bit pi-Id P HI-Id un-ni-ni-ya lil-ma-da sihpi-ya 

44 . ina rdk-ri-Su kabti(ti) ilu u %lll iStar lislimu(mu) itti-ya 

45 . li-in-ni-is-si mursu Sa mimri-ya P li-td-kil ta-ni-hu Sa siri p! -jya\ 

46 . lit-ta-bil aSakku Sa bit ani pl -\'yaj 

47 . lip-pa-as-ru imti pl imti pl imti pl SA ibaSu-u ili-ya 

48 . li-in-ni-is-si ma-mit 12 H-tA-kil 13 id- . 

49 . lit-lu-ud Uu NAM.TAR l> \ li-$al- irat-su P ina pUki'* HS-sa-kin 

ba-ni-ti 

50 . ilu u l6 Sami lik-bu-u damikti(ti) ina ki-bil-ki gir-ti Sa id uttak- 

karum(rum) xi 

51 . u an-ni-ki ki-nim Sa id inu-u ihl TaS-mi-tum biltu x * 

iu Ta $-nd-tum. KAN 

53 . Siptu bilu muS-ti-Sir kis-sat niSi pl gi-ntir nab-ni-ti 

54 . duppu . KAN bit rim-ki ikal mihl ASSur-ban-apli etc. 


1 B . -tu. 2 B ir]itim(tini). 3 B hr-ru-ur kib-ra-a-ti. 4 B . -hi- 

nin-ni. 5 B . -am-tl. 6 B I;u-ra-(fu. 7 B a-na-ti-nta. 8 /> ta-hihi-U. 

9 C i-lat. 10 C as-hur-l'i Wti-ya Si-mi-i su-lpi-ya], 11 C ha-i-ri-ki. 12 C ina- 


mi-tu. 13 C Ut -. 14 C . gall it, 15 C [a*naj uih'H 

a-pa-a-U. 10 C it. 17 C uUahkaru(nt). 18 C bi-U-lum. 
















PRAYER TO THE MOON-GOD ^TC. 


5 


No. i (K 155) consists of the upper part of a large tablet 
of which fully half has been broken away. The text in its 
present condition falls into three main sections: (a) 11. 1—27, 
a prayer to Sin on the occasion pf an eclipse of the moon, 
( 6 ) 11. 29 — 35, the opening lines of a prayer to Is tar, and (c) 

11. 36—51, the conclusion of a prayer to Tasmitu which like (a) 
is directed against the evils resulting from a lunar eclipse. 
The pra3 7 'er to Sin (a) commences with an address to the god 
describing his power and attributes. LI. 12 and 13 state the 
occasion of the prayer: an eclipse of the moon has taken place 
bringing evil on the land of Assyria and the palace of the king 
who therefore appeals to the god of heaven and to the Moon- 
god himself, whose prerogative it is to give an oracle of the 
great gods when they so desire. 


Translation. 

1. O Sin l O Nannarl mighty one. 

2. O Sin , who art unique, thou that brightenest. 

3. That givest light unto the nations. 

4. That unto the black-headed race art favourable. 

5. Bright is thy light, in heaven. 

6. Brilliant is thy torch, like the Fire-god. 

7. Thy brightness fills the broad earth! 

8 . The brightness of the nation he gathers, in thy sight . . . 

9. O Aim of the sky, whose purpose no man learns! 

10. Overwhelming is thy light like the Sun-god [thy?] first-born! 

11. Before thy face the great gods bow down, the fate of the 

world is set before thee! 

12. In the evil of an eclipse of the Moon which in such and 
such a month on such and such a day has taken place, 

13. In the evil of the powers, of the portents, evil and not good, 

which are in my palace and my land, 

14. The great gods beseech thee and thou givest counsel! 

15. They take their stand all of them, they petition at thy feet! 

16. O Sin , glorious one of lkur\ they beseech thee and thou 

givest the oracle of the gods! 

17. The end of the month is the day of thy oracle, the decision 

of the great gods; 









6 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OB' DEITIES. 


18. The thirtieth day is thy festival, a day of prayer to thy 

divinity! 

19. O God of the New Moon, in might unrivalled, whose purpose 

no man learns, 

20. I have poured thee a libation of the night (with) wailing, 
I have offered thee (with) shouts of joy a drink offering of . . 

21. I am bowed down! I have taken my stand! I have sought 

for thee! 

22. Do thou set favour and righteousness upon me! 

23. May my god and my goddess, who for long have been angry 

with me, 

24. In righteousness and justice deal graciously with me! Let 

my way be propitious, with joy. 

25. And ZA.GAR, the god of dreams hath sent, 

26. In the night season.my sin may I hear my 

iniquity may. 

27. For ever may I bow myself in humility before thee! 

Of (b) the prayer to I$tar only a few lines have been pre¬ 
served containing the invocation of the goddess. She is addressed 
as: u Istar the heroine, strong among" goddesses! Lady(?) of 

heaven and earth, the splendour of the four quarters!. 

the first-born of Sin , offspring of Ningal !.O Jsiar, 

over these heavens dost thou rule.” The reverse of the tablet 
(c) consists of the last fifteen lines of a prayer to TaSmitu, in 
which the goddess is petitioned to intercede with her husband 
the god Nabu and to induce him to remove the sickness and 
enchantments caused by the Moon's eclipse. After addressing* 
the goddess by name her suppliant continues: 

38. I so and so, son of so and so, whose god is so and so, 

whose goddess is so and so, 

39. In the evil of an eclipse of the Moon, which in such and 
such a month on such and such a day has taken place 

40. In the evil of the powers, of the portents, 'evil and not good, 

which are in my palace and my land, 

41. Have turned towards thee! I have established thee! Listen 

to the incantation! 

42. Before Nabu thy spouse, the lord, the prince, the first-born 

son of Isagila , intercede for me! 







PRAYER TO THE MOON-GOD ETC. 


7 


43. May he hearken to my cry at the word of thy mouth; may 

he remove my sighing, may he learn my supplication! 

44. At his mighty word may god and goddess deal graciously 

with me! 

45. May the sickness of my body be torn away; may the 

groaning of my flesh be consumed! 

46. May the consumption of my muscles be removed! 

47. May the poisons that are upon me be loosened! 

48. May the ban be torn away, may the.be consumed! 

49. May.; at thy command may mercy be established! 

50. May god and king ordain favour at thy mighty command 

that is not altered 

51. And thy true mercy that changes not, O lady Tasmztul 

The catch-line reads: “O lord, that directest the multitude 
of the peoples, the whole of creation!” 

1. The word ru-su-bu ( = rusicbu ), if my reading is correct, 

1 > 5 

is an adj. of the form ujJts, the usual forms of the word being 
rasbu and rasicbu. The character, however, which I read as 
Je| is almost obliterated and might possibly be read 

6. Sarafan is proved by Jensen to have the meaning ‘‘to 
shine, be bright”; cf Kosmo logic p. 105!, where the present 
passage is quoted from Strassmaier, A.V., no. 8063. For the 
meaning of diparu “torch”, cf. Jensen, ZK, II, p. 53, and Zimmern, 
BPS , p. 47- 

9. ma-[am-ma-a 7 i] is the probable restoration of the end 
of this line and of L 19. From the end of 1 . 10 only one char¬ 
acter appears to be missing; bu-uk-ri-[ka] would therefore be 
a possible restoration. 

11. ina does not occur in the text with the first pani-ka 
as we might be led to expect from the latter half of the line: 
for a similar use of panu without the preposition cf. IV R 59 
[66], no. 2, rev. 1. 18, pani-ka lu-kir , “in thy sight may I be 
precious”. 

12 f. The formula contained in these two lines, stating the 
occasion of the prayer, is of frequent occurrence in these texts 
(cf Introduction ). The first half of the second line, which in 
several tablets forms a line by itself, is in apposition to ina 





8 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


lumun ilu atali illt Sin , as indicated in my translation, and the 
whole formula, which does not represent a complete sentence 
in itself, acts merely as an introduction to the sentence that 
follows it. The only difficulty in the two lines is in connection 

with the phrase y— <Kim T—■ These two 

ideograms occur together not only in the formula under dis¬ 
cussion but are occasionally to be met with in prayers incan- 
tatious etc., and whenever they so occur they are never joined 
by a copula but always stand in apposition to one another as 
in the present passage, cf. No. 12, 1. 64 ni idifaa-a lumun su- 
natiID.MIS ITIMIS sa samlz u zrsitim(iim), Haupt’s ASK 7 ] 
No. 7, Rev. 1 . 4f. in a lumun ID.MIN.MIS ITIMIS si-kin usnrtiJ' 1 , 
1 . 7 f. as-sum lumun ID.MIS ITIMIS HmnitK 1 sa in a biti-yh ba- 
sM l -ma pal-faa-ku , and 1 . 9 f. ina lumun ID.MIS ITIMIS sh-ti- 
ka-an-ni-ma , K 6343, 1 . 6 II).MIS ITIMIS limnitil 1 la tahali , 
K 8005 + K 8845 + IC 8941, a very fragmentary prayer of 
Afigurbcinipal formed from three pieces I have lately joined, in 
1.3 of which the phrase ID.MIS ITIMIS occurs, IV R 17, 
Rev. 1 . 15 f. mu-pa-aS-Sir NAM.BUL.B 1 .I ID.MlS ITIMIS lim- 
nitiT , probably IV R 60 [67], Rev. 1 . 34 [IDJ.MIS ITLMJS 
BAR.MIS ana Sarri u mati-Su baSal 1 -a , etc . More commonly 

however the ideogram <T<TW is found by itself, cf. N0.T2, 
1. 65 lumun III ali u mati ai iksudaiuii(ui) yd-Si, the passages 
quoted from bilingual incantations in Brunnow's List , no. 9-1.29, 

IVR56 [63], Col. II, 11b t7u Sin . mu-kal-lim III.MIS, 

K 9006, 1. 5 III limuttu sa ina su-pu-ri-ya , K 9591, 1 . 2 (pub¬ 
lished and transliterated by BrUnnow, ZA IV, pp. 233, 249), 

79—7—8, 52 a corner of an incantation in 11. 3.6 of which 

the suppliant prays for help ina lumun Ill . ina lumun 

di-fan . ina lumun asaleku . ina lumun fau-usfsu ?/, 

the fragmentary prayer 82—3 — 23, 57 Rev. 1 . 4, K 6187, u 
Babylonian ceremonial text for obtaining magical results from 
stones {cf. Bezold, Catalogue , p. 769), in Col. Ill of which the 
ITI limuttu(tu) is constantly mentioned, K 3460, Col. I {cf. op. cit. 
p. 535 )? 7 g — 7—8, 115, 1. 16, Bu. 91—5 — 9, 14, 1 . 10 an astro¬ 
logical report from IStarSumMl K 21 {cf R. F. Harper, Assy¬ 
rian and Babylonian Letters , Pt. I, p. 49) a letter from Nabn - 
nadinsmn to the king which concludes (1. i2ff.): i) ina ill it-h 
an-ni-ti sarru hi-ili . r -su In- . id-da-ab-bu-ub 







THE ECLIPSE-FORMULA. 


9 


ilH BU ft iln Nabu am-mar ITI si-tu-uk-ki ma-su, a-na sarru bili-ya 
u-si-tu-uk-ku sarru bi-ili lu la i-pa-lafe, K. 168, Obv. 1. i6f. (a letter, 
published by Winkler, Keilschriftt . II, Leipzig*, 1893, p. 28), etc . 
Though the interpretation of the ideogram ITI is entirely depen¬ 
dent on the context of the passages where it occurs, there is 
not much doubt as to its meaning. The word is generally 
rendered by some synonym of “sign” or “omen” {cf. Lenormant, 
Iitudes accadietmes , Vol. Ill, p. 136 f., Delitzsch, WB, p. 169, 
Sayce, Hibbert Lectures , pp. 449, 459, 512, 516, 538, Jensen in 
Schrader’s Keilins . Bibl ., Vol. II, pp. 249, 253, etc.) t though 
in ZK I, p. 303 Jensen assigned to it the active meaning “power, 
might (ops) 19 . That the former is the more correct rendering 
of the two is I think put beyond a doubt by a passage occurring 
in a letter (K 112), the text of which has recently been published 
by R. F. Harper, Assyrian and Babylonian Letter's , Pt. II, p. 228, 
London 1894. The first fifteen lines of this letter read: a-na am ik- 
karu bili-ya arad-ka milu Nabu-zir-isir lu sulmu(inu) a-na bili-ya 
llu Nabu u tlu Marduk a-na bili-ya (5) sanati pl ma--da-ti lik-ru-bu 

ITLMIS lu-u sa sami-i lu sa irsitim(tim) lu-u sa am-mar 

lim-na-ni a-sa-tar ina ba-at-ta-ta-ai ma-fyar ilu Samas u-sa-ad-bi- 
ib-su-nu (10) ina karan sutu-u ina mi * 1 rimki ina samni pl pissati pl - 
su amiluti pl (?) am-mu-ti u-sa-ab-si-il u-sa-kil-su-nu sar pu-u-U 
sa mai Akkadu kl ITLMIS us-tab-ra-an-ni i-si-si (15) ma-a mi-nu-u 

ITI . Though the interpretation of this text is in places 

exceedingly obscure the general drift of the letter is clear 
enough. In consequence of enquiries concerning the ITI Nabu- 
zirisir takes the necessary observations and returns his report 
to an official styled the ikkaru. After the usual salutations he 
states that he has observed “the ITI , whether of the sky, or 

of the earth, or of the (possibly an exhaustive 

formula), and that they are unfavourable; and probably in 
consequence of this he has performed certain rites and cere¬ 
monies which he proceeds to narrate. It is obvious that the 
only possible meaning for ITI in this passage is “sign” or 
“portent ,y , a rendering that suits all other passages in which 
I have met the word including the one already referred to as 
having been somewhat differently translated by Jensen . 1 That 

1 Prof. Bezold has called my attention to the use of ITI in the colophon 

C 



10 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


the word is in itself colourless taking a favourable or un¬ 
favourable meaning from its context is suggested by the 
qualifying phrase limniti * 1 Id labati * 1 inserted in the formula 
under discussion, and this is put beyond a doubt by Rm. 136, 
a fragment of an omen tablet, in 11. 13 and 16 of which we 
find the phrase ITI damiktirn[fit m ?)] as well as ITI hntuttt 7 n(Um). 
It is natural however that in prayers for help or deliverance ITI 
should generally occur in an unfavourable sense. 

But while we can assign a meaning to the ideogram with 
something like certainty, we do not meet with the same success 
when we look for its Semitic equivalent. Delitzsch indeed in 
AL\ p. 30, no. 256 suggests a rendering takiltu (?) and he is 
followed by Lehmann in his explanation of K 168, 11 . 14 and 16 
(cf. Samassmnukin, p. 76 f.), in which he transliterates ITI with 
the plural-sign as taklati , tak-li-ia-su-nit occurring in close 
connection two lines above. But against this rendering is to 
be urged the fact that wherever the sign occurs in bilingual 
incantations it is, as for as I know, rendered not by takiltu 
but by iiiu . As however I do not know on what grounds 
Delitzsch bases his identification of the ideogram with takiltu, 
I have throughout my transliteration rendered the word by 
ITI, thus leaving the question in abeyance. 

The explanation of ID is also conjectural. Though ID.MIS 
and ITI.MIS are in apposition it does not follow that they are 
synonymous, as they are taken by Lenormant, La Magic, p. 164 
and by Sayce, Hilbert Lectures, pp. 173 and 538. It appears to 
me that Delitzsch has given the true explanation of the word 
in his translation of the sentence as-Sum lumun ID.MI ITI.MIS 
limnitisa ina biti-ya basal 1 -ma, to which reference has already 
been made and which he renders: 4 Von wegen (aVsuin) der bosen 
Machte, der bosen Zeichen, die in meinem Hause sind” (cf. WB, 
p. 169). Here apparently he renders ID by its most common 
equivalent idu , the plural of which constantly occurs in the 
sense of “forces, powers’ 7 , and this view is supported by the 

ofK 8713, where the word apparently refers to and should be rendered by “astro¬ 
logical forecasts”. I think however that the more general rendering “portent”, 
which would of course include the special meaning attaching to the word in 
this tablet, is better suited to many of the other passages in which 7.77 is to be 
found; see especially IV R 3, Col. I, 1 . 29 f. 



THE ECLIPSE-FORMULA. 


11 

fact that in the same hymn {cf. supra p. 8) ID occurs with 
the dual as well as the plural-sign. 1 Morever in No. 6, 1 . 114 f. 
i-da-tu-u-a occurs in parallelism with sunat£ l -u-a and must 
therefore have a somewhat similar meaning to that of ID in the 
present passage. The meaning of the formula may therefore 
be regarded as practically settled though the Semitic equivalent 
of ITI is still a matter of some uncertainty. 

15. That is equivalent to nazazu is clear from 

Brunnow, List , no. 4893. If on the other hand we read the 
group phonetically, the form du-bu must be explained as Perm. 
II 1 from dababu , for dubbubi i*, dubb-bif\ the former explanation 
however appears to me the more probable of the two. The 
verb ns-ta-mu-u in the second half of the line I take to be III 2 
from ]/HDK, “to speak”, with a causative signification, “to cause 
to speak”, i. e. “petition”. 

16. taniitu in the technical sense of “an oracle 1 ’ occurs in 
the regular formulae of the so-called “Downfall” tablets, in 
which “ Izib 7” commonly consists of the phrase izib sa i-na pi 
mar am bari ardi-ka ta-mit up-tar-ri-du, “Grant that in the mouth 
of the magician’s son thy servant a word (i. e. the oracle for 
which we ask) may hasten”, or in the 1 st pers. ta-mit ina 
pi-ya up{ov ip)-tar-ri-du , cf. Knudtzon, Assyrische Gebete an den 
Sonnengott , Vol. II, p. 42, Leipzig 1893. 

17. For the explanation of bubbulmn as “the day of (the 
Moon’s) disappearance” cf. Jensen, Kosmologie , pp. 91, 106. 

i 9 . - 4 - - I have taken as an abbreviation of 

HP- - *T MI- It might be possible to read the 

group ilii ina isid it mi “o god! in the foundation of (that) day 
is a power unrivalled etc”, teferring to the thirtieth day of 

1 The sign of the dual is also to be found with ID in tlie name of the 
plant j^yyyji ^^yyj y»*>- ^y^t^yyyy y > ->> ■ > -, which occurs in Col. V, 
1. 4 of Rm. 328, a tablet in which the names of plants are enumerated in short 
sections probably for use as prescriptions. This plant may have been so named 
from its employment in warding off the evils of the ID.MIS ITI.MIS. That 
certain prescriptions were used against such evils is clear from K. 6432, a tablet 
containing prescriptions, one section of which commences (rev., 1. 4) inwna ina 

arahNisani umi 1^AN amiht ID.MIS-lu ITIMIS-hc limuttuflu?] . 

[cf. Bezold, Catalogue , p. 787). 


C2 




12 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


the month mentioned in the preceding* line. But this explan¬ 
ation appears rather forced, and the parallelism of 1. g seems 
to indicate that the group is the name of a god. That nam- 
msii = the New-Moon has been shown by Jensen, Kosmologie, 
p. 104 f., and the invocation of the Moon-god as the New-Moon, 
following immediately on the mention of the end of the month, 
is singularly appropriate. 

20. as-ruk-ka si-rik ; cf. No. 35» 1 * 9> (is-ruk-ki si-ftk ad¬ 
dressed to Is&ara . The suffixes -ka and -ki are probably to 
be regarded as having the force of ana ka-a-tu ; ana ka-a^tz. 
For a similar use of the suffix cf. K 5418 a, Col. IV, 1 . 7, quo¬ 
ted by Bezold, Catalogue , p. 715: biti-H-na (or bzt-si-na) i-pu - 
us-ka na-ru-a as-tur-ka , “their house have I made for thee, my 
tablet have I inscribed for thee”. A somewhat analogous in¬ 
stance occurs in an Old-Babylonian letter (V.A.Th. 5 7 v 5 )» pub¬ 
lished by Meissner, Beitr. z. Assfr ., Vol. II, pp. 561 £, 577, in 
1. 10 of which the verb t-zi-ba-ak-fat-Su occurs, governing two 
suffixes however and not a suffix and a substantive as in the 

present passage. may be read il-lu in agreement 

with musi, “an incantation of the bright night”. But lallartu 
(cf. Brunnow, List, No. 11181) appears to me the preferable 
reading, as it balances ri-is-ta-a in the second half of the line. 
For a similar use of the word cf. Sm. 954, Obv. 1 . 33, quoted 
by Zimmern, BPS , p. 95. 

25. The title Hit Sa sunatf 1 occurs in IV R 66, No. 2, 

Rev. 1 . 24, where it is applied to ►'►f- £=| which Zimmern 

(op. cit. p. 105) explains as meaning “dream-god”. 

in 1 . 11a of the list of gods published in II R 54 is possibly 
to be regarded as a synonym of Bil, as suggested by BrOnnow, 
List, No. 11771. 

26. The group - tu in V R 20, 3 e is read as sartu 

“sin” by Zimmern, op. cit., p. 12, while for tJ ifcj-*' 

in IV R 61, no. i, 11 . 29 and 31 he proposes a rendering serin 
“anger, wrath”, where the meaning “sin” would be inappro¬ 
priate {cf. op. cit., p. 85). That “sin” is the meaning of the 
word in the present passage is clear from the corresponding 
arniya in the first half of the line. For my reading Sirtu and 
not 'sartu or sartu cf. Delitzsch in Zimmern’s BPS, p. 115. 



INIMJNIM.MA SU IL.LA. 


13 


28. This colophon line, which is characteristic of the pre¬ 
sent collection of texts (cf. Introduction ), is with one exception 
written throughout in Sumero-Akkadian, thus: INIMJNIM.MA 
SU IL.LA ilu (or *“***>) . KAN (or KID). The ex¬ 
ception occurs in 1 . 14 of No. 35, which reads:. 

ni-is ka-a-ti sd llu BUit. The beginning of the line is unfortu¬ 
nately broken off and we are consequently left in doubt as to 
the Assyrian equivalent of INIMJNIM.MA. Our choice how¬ 
ever appears to be restricted to amatu and siptu ( cf ' Brunnow, 
List, nos. 588 f.), and of these the former is to be preferred as 

it distinguishes the ideogram from occurring at the com¬ 

mencement of almost all these incantations. In Assyrian the 
line should therefore in all probability run: amdt nis kati sa 

iiu ( or kakhab^ . The expression nis kati, “hand-raising”, 

has in many passages almost lost its original meaning and been 
transferred to the utterance that generally accompained the act. 
It is thus possible that the colophon-line in question is simply 
equivalent to: “The words of the prayer to such and such a 
god”. My own opinion however is that INIMJNIM.MA, 
whether considered the equivalent of amatu or not, has ac¬ 
quired in the colophons where it occurs the definite meaning 
of “prayer”. 1 On this assumption nis kati must be regarded as 
retaining its original significance and we must see in the title 
an allusion to some act or ceremony accompanying the reci¬ 
tation of the prayer that precedes* it. It may possibly be urged 
against this view that in No. 8, 1 . 21 SU IL.LA III sanitu ipusius) 
takes the place of the more usual minutu(tu) an-ni-tu III sanitu 
nmnu(mi) 2 , and should therefore be treated as its equivalent in 
meaning and translated: “the prayer three times perform”. 
But such an inference is far from certain and it appears to 
me more probable that in the case of No. 8 the act of raising 
the hand three times is substituted for the threefold repetition 
of the prayer. 

30. My translation of the ideogram DI.BAR is conjectural, 
for the fact that the sign-group <M= HF- occurs in a 

3 It is possible that the group should be transliterated by some word with 
the definite meaning of prayer, such as tisjitu or ikribu, 

2 For a discussion of this phrase cf. infra , sub No. 2, 1 . 10. 






H 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


list of gods in II R 54 as an equivalent of Bil {cf. Beunnow, 
List , no. 9544) does not throw much light upon its meaning. 
Of the reading of the duplicate B, which probably gave the 
phonetic equivalent of the ideogram unfortunately only the 
ending. -iu has been preserved. 

35. In the duplicate B the sign following is written 
very clearly thus This may have been a slip on the 

part of the scribe for or possibly for in which latter 

case the first part of the line should be transliterated:. 

MU] BA.AN.UD.DA . 

41. a-ra-ii , for arrati , is clearly used here in the sense of 
“incantation” or “invocation”, as shown by the duplicate C, 
which reads si-mi-i su-[pi-ya]. The end of 1 . 42 is restored from 
the somewhat similar line in Haupt’s ASKT, No. 19, Rev. 1 . 5, 
which reads: — ana kar-ra-di id-him ltu Sama$ &a--i-ri na-ra- 
mi-ki a-bu-ti sab-ti-ma. I have adopted Zimmern’s explanation 
of the phrase in BPS, p- 59; abbnttu he derives from 
“to twist”, explaining the word as meaning “chain, fetter”, and 
to the phrase abbtittu sabatn he gives the meaning “to go bail, 
give security for someone, to intercede for him” (esp. of inter¬ 
cession to a deity). Cf\ also Delitzsch in Zimmern’s BPS, 
p. 117 b and WB, p. 75 £, where he derives the word from 
l/roj;. 

48. li-ta-kil I take to be = littakil , IV 2 from akalu. If 
the word be read li-da-gil , I 1 from dagalu , then li-in-ni-is-si 
must be regarded as I 2, not IV 1 from nisit , and the line 
would run: “May he tear away the sickness of my body; may 
he behold the sighing of my flesh”. But the more common 
form of the Pres, of dagahi is idagal , and the reading of the 
duplicate C seems rather to support the former view. 

49. ba-ni-ti, a subs, from banu “to shine”. From the mean¬ 
ing “brightness” the word comes to signify “mercy”, cf Zimmkrn, 
op. cit p. 60. 

54. The scribe has left a space after duppu evidently with 
the intention of subsequently filling in the number of the tablet. 
Two other tablets of the Series Bit rimki are known to us, 
namely K 3245 etc. and K 3392, which are labelled respectively 






THE SERIES BlX RIMKI. 


15 


the 1st. and 3rd. tablets of the series {cf. Bezold, Catalogue , 
p. 528 and Vol.III, p.VIII). The fragment K 6028 is a duplicate 
of K 3392 ( cf\ op. cit . p. 757) but it is broken off before the first 
line of the colophon, and of the catch-line the beginning only 

is preserved: siptu ga-as-ru sic- . Now K 2538 etc. 

Col. VI, 1 . 1 reads siptu gas-ru su-pu-u i-ziz alu Assur. Therefore 
on p. 5 of the Additions to IV R, the tablet K 6028 has been 
published as “probably part of the same text” as K 2538 etc. 
But K 3392 , which preserves the beginning of the colophon 
shows that this is not the case. The catch-line does indeed 
refer to the first line of the incantation contained in Col. VI, 
11. 1—21 of K 2538 etc. but this incantation, which is a dupli¬ 
cate of No. 9, 11 . 1 — 26, has evidently been taken from the pre¬ 
sent class of texts and inserted in the composite and partly 
bilingual tablet published in IV R, pi. 21*. K 3392 and its 
duplicate on the other hand would appear to belong to the 
present class of texts, for their style and colophon-line point 
in this direction. From the shape of the tablet however it is 
certain that it originally contained four columns, two on either 
side, an arrangement that is never met with in the texts col¬ 
lected in this volume. The most probable explanation there¬ 
fore seems to be that the Series Bit rimki was a composite 
collection of texts including among others texts of the present 
class. 1 It has been already pointed out that K 2832 + K 6680 
contains “a list of the first lines of various incantations” [cf Bezold, 
Catalogue , Vol. II, p. XXII), and it is possible that “in Col. I we 
possess a fragmentary catalogue of the first lines of some of 
the incantations of this series. The tablet in question commences 

HP- -tttt tr m while 1. 11 runs siptu ga-as-ru su-pu-u 
i-ziz aln Assur , a commencement which is identical with the catch¬ 
line of K 3392 and the first line of the Obv. of No. 9 and of 
its duplicate K 2538. Col. VI, 11 . 1—21, and which must there¬ 
fore refer to that incantation. The Bit rimki itself, from 
which the series takes its name, may possibly have been a 
certain temple or more probably a special chamber or division 

1 K. 3392 adds but little to its duplicate KL 6028 already published; apart 
from the beginning of the colophon its most important addition is that to 1.10, 

the end of which it restores thus: HP- ^ *HP- ^TTTii- 




PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


l6 

of every large temple. That it actually existed in one or other 
of these capacities is clear from the passages where it is 
mentioned throughout the hymn to the Sun-god published 
in V R, pi. 50 f.; in Col. Ill, 1 . 20 occurs the phrase ina bit 
rim-ki ina i-ri-bi-ka, “when thou enterest the house of libation”, 
and in 1. 55 ana bit rim-ki ina ti-bi-ka, “when thou approaches 
the house of libation”; cf. also Col. Ill, 11 . 55. 7° and CoL IV ’ 

11. 21, 28 of the same text. 


No. 2. 


Transliteration. 


Obv. 

1. 


da- 


. . ina Han # 1 ... 

3 . bilti-yii as-sa-h^r . 

4 . -hi i-H- bi-lut-ki 

5 .-7 nan-ni-ma ki-bi-i damifethn(tim) 

6 . -ka Uul-li-ki Immttim(tim) 

7 . ya - a - ti pa - Ufa - Id 

8. [lib-bi-ki] lu-sa-pi dd-li-U-ki lud-htl 

9. [IN 1 MJJNIMMA SUIL.LA ^Id^miHumJC^ DU.DU BI 

SA-NA buraH 

10. [ana] pan llu TaS-mi-tum tasakan(an) KAS.SAG tauaki(ki)-ma 

minutn(tu) an-ni-tu munu(nu) 


11. siptiL ap-lu gal-ru bu-kur %lu Bil 

12. sur-bu-u 1 git-ma-lu i-lit-ti IS ARB A 

13. sd pu-lufy-tu [lit]-bu-sic 2 ma-lu-a 3 foar-ba-[$u] 

14. ilu UT.GAL.LU [sa la im]-ma&-%a-ru ka-bal-Su 

15 . siirbu-u man-[za-za] ina Han # 1 rabid # 1 

16. ina I.KUR bit ta-[si]-la-a-ti Sa-ka-a* ri-Sa-a-ka 

17. id-din-ka-ma llu Bil abu-ka 

18. ti-rii kul-lat ilan # 1 ka-tnk-ka tam-fyat 

19. ta-dan di-in ti-ni-H-i-ti 5 

20. tus-ti-sir la sti-su-ru i-ka-a i-ku-ti 6 


1 A Sur-hii~u. 2 A Izt-buSu. 3 A ma-lu-u\ B [ma]-lu-u, 4 B 

•Id-a 5 B di-in ti-niAi-i-ti. 6 B i-hu-tmn. 
















PRAYER TO NINIB ETC. 


17 


21. ta-sab-bat kat [in-si] la li--a tu-sa-as-ka 1 

22. sa a-na a-ra-al-[li]-i su-ru-du pa-gar-su 2 tutira(ra) 

2$. sa dr-nu i-Su-u ta-pat-tar 3 dr-nu 4 


Rev. 

24. 

25 * 

26. 

27 

28 

29 

30 

31 

32 

33 

34 

35 

36 

37 
33 

39 

40 

41 


sa ilu-su itti-su 5 zi-nu-u 6 tu-sal-lam 1 dr-Ijis 

illl NIN.IB a-sa-rid Haiti * 1 ku-ra-du at-ta 

ana-ku ft til amt aftil puldni sa ilu-su pul ami ilu istar-su ftu- 

lanituin(tum ) 8 

ar-kus-ka rik-sa KU.A.TIR ds-ruk-ka 

ds-ruk-ka tar-[rin]-nu 9 i-ri-su 10 tabu 11 

akki-ka du-us-[sii]-bu si-kar ds-na-an 12 
itfi-ka li-iz-[zi]-zu 15 Haiti * 1 su-ut ilu BU 

itti-ka li-iz-[zi]-zu 13 ildni * 1 su-ut I.KUR 

si-mi 15 ] ka-ba-ai 


14 «/ 


ki-nis nap-lis-an-ni-[ma 
un-ni-ni-ya [li-ki-ma l6 mu-fyur] 
zik-ri [H-tib] 
si-lim itti ya-a-tu-u 
[pa]-ni-ka a-ta-mar 


tas-lit 
ili-ka 
fta-lilg-ka 
lu-si-ra ana-ku 


[mu]-up-pal-sa-ta 17 ki-nis nap-lis-an-ni 18 
[an]-ni pu-tur sir-ti J 9 pu-sur 

[i?]-ti-ik kil-la-ti-ma fyi-ti-ii ru-um-[mi?] 

[Hi]-yd u zlu istari-ya li-sa-ki-ru-in-ni-ma lik-bu-u damiktim(tim) 
[lib]-bi-ka lu-sa-pi dd-li-U-ka lud-lul 


42. [ 1 NIMJNIM].MA SU IL.LA 


{lu NTN.IB. KAN 


43 - 

44. 

45 - 

46. 

47 - 

48. 

49. 
5 °- 


. kib-ra-a-ii i-lat bi-li-i-ti 
. . llu Da-gan ra-bii zlu I-gi-gi 
. . fa-ti ildni* l ka-nu-tu ai ak-ki 

. iukulti(ti) LZID.DA 

mu-kin inn-mat ildni * 1 a-pil ilu Marduk 

. -su . nab-ni-ti 

. -faa-zi 

. -ra 


1 B tu-lak-ha-ru 2 B avi pagar-lu. 3 B Ui-pat-t&r; D ta-pa- . 

4 B dr-na. 5 D l ^ u isfar-hi. G D zi-nu-u. 7 B [tu]-sdl-lam. 3 D ana-ku 
arad-ka m dttAlltir-bdn-apli mar ili-lu | sa ilu-lu Ashtr ilu istar-su ilu Al-hi- r i-ium. 
9 CD tar-rm-na. 10 CD i-ri-la. 11 D ia-a-ka. 12 D al-na-an. 13 D li-ziz-zu. 
14 D naplisa-?zz-ma. 15 E h'-ma-a. 30 D lilA-ma. 17 D [mu-up]-pal-sa-at. 
18 D naplis-an-ni. 19 DE lir-tim. 

D 












18 PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 

The first eight lines of No. 2 (K 2487 + K 2502 -f- K 2591) 
contain the end of a prayer to Tasinitu , in which the suppliant, 
after beseeching the g*oddess to confer favour and to destroy 
iniquity, concludes with the desire that he may extol her heart 
and bow in humility before her. LI. 9 and 10 form a colophon 
containing directions for ceremonies, for a full discussion of 
which cf. p. 19 ff. These are followed by a complete prayer 
of thirty-one lines addressed to Ninib ( 11 . 11—41) commencing 
with fourteen lines in description and praise of the god; the 
suppliant then states the offerings that he has duly made, rely¬ 
ing on which he concludes with the request to be cleansed 
from sin, comforted in sorrow, and restored to the favour of 
god and goddess. LI. 20—23 are remarkable as they attribute 
a gentle character to Ninib , describing him as the guide of 
the wandering and the sustainer of the weak, the restorer of 
the dead and the cleanser of sins. It is probable that in this 
description the god is regarded in his solar character as the 
friend of mankind, a function that is not however inconsistent 
with his character as the god of battle. 1 The eight fragment¬ 
ary lines, with which the tablet concludes, contain the beginning 
of a prayer to a goddess, which in its damaged condition does 
not admit of a connected translation. 

Translation. 

11. 0 mighty son, first-born of Bill 

12. Powerful, perfect, offspring of ham, 

13. Who art clothed with terror, who art full of fury! 

14. 0 Utgallu (?), whose onslaught is unopposed! 

15. Mighty is (thy) place among the great gods! 

16. In tknr , the house of decisions, exalted are thy heads, 

17. And Bil thy father has granted thee 

18. That the law of all the gods thy hand should hold! 

19. Ihou judgest the judgement of mankind! 

20. Thou leadest him that is without a leader, the man that is 

in need! 

21. Thou holdest the hand of the weak, thou exaltest him that 

is not strong! 


1 Of' Jensen, Kosmologie, p. 475. 



PRAYER TO NINIB ETC. 


r 9 


22. The body of the man that to the Lower World has been 

brought down thou dost restore! 

23. From him who sin possesses, the sin thou dost remove! 

24. Thou art quick to favour the man with whom his god is 

angry! 

25. O Ninib , prince of the gods, a hero art thou! 

26. I so and so, son of so and so, whose god is so and so, 

whose goddess is so and so, 

27. Have bound for thee a cord,.have I offered 

thee; 

28. I have offered thee tarrinnu , a pleasant odour; 

29. I have poured out for thee mead, a drink from corn. 

30. With thee may there stand the gods of Bil\ 

31. With thee may there stand the gods of Ikur ! 

32. Truly pity me and hearken to my cries! 

33. My sighing remove and accept my supplication! 

34. Let my cry find acceptance before thee! 

35. Deal favourably with me who fear thee! 

36. Thy face have I beheld, let me have prosperity! 

37. Thou art pitiful! Truly pity me! 

38. Take away my sin, my iniquity remove! 

39. Tear away my disgrace and my offence do thou loosen! 

40. May my god and my goddess command me and may they 

ordain good fortune! 

41. May I praise thy heart, may I bow in humility before thee! 

The first clause of the colophon contained in 1. 9 f. has 
been already discussed, cf. p. 13 f., and in future I shall not 
again refer to this phrase which occurs on each of the texts 

published under Sections I—V. The expression HF- HF >—< is 
to be found at the commencement of most directions for cere- 

monies interchanging with ►-Js? £3 and with “HP" 

HPfc and evidently forming a sort of set introduction to the 
ceremonies that follow. Each of these three groups of 
signs is probably equivalent to ipus annum, “do the follow¬ 
ing”, as Bezold has pointed out in ZA, V, p.m. The three 
directions however that follow this introductory phrase in the 
present text require some explanation. The first is to the 
following effect: — “a SA.NA of incense before Tasmitu shalt 




20 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


thou set”, and the question at once arises, what is a SA.NA? 
The phrase SA.NA burasi is of very common occurrence both 
in these texts and in regulations for ceremonies generally, 
and wherever it occurs there are only two alternatives 
possible as to its meaning. It must either be some measure 
of weight or capacity stating the exact amount of incense 
to be used, or else it must refer to the vessel in which the 
incense is contained. Which of these two^meanings should 
be adopted is made clear from the use of SA.NA in K 3245, 
Col. II, 1 . 143/ which reads, ATI SA.NA taSakan(au), and in a 
colophon-line that is characteristic of the present class of texts, 
lit ina SAR lit ina SA.NA ifus(nl), cf ^ Nos. 16, 11; 18, 19; 21, 
92 etc. As in both these expressions SA.NA is used absolutely, 
it cannot be the name of any measure or weight. We are re¬ 
duced therefore to the second of the two alternatives and must 
conclude that the SA.NA was a kind of vessel capable of con¬ 
taining incense and of being set before a god; it may have 
taken the form of a small brazier or tripod. 1 2 

The second injunction, KAS.SAG tanaki(ki)-ma, is also 
frequently to be met with in the ritual texts. The two signs 
are not to be read phonetically as an adv. hl-ris, 
but are rather to be regarded as the name of some libation, 
for otherwise the verb tanaki would be left without an object. 
The KAS.SAG may have been the name of some drink or 
liquid, but it appears to me to be more probable that it was 
the name of the drink-offering itself. For in IV R 60 [67], 
20a there occurs the injunction KAS.SAG karctni tanaki((ki)J , 
definitely stating that the KAS.SAG is to be of wine. This 


1 The first eighteen lines of this column are published by Bezold, Cata* 
logiie , p. 516. 

2 In texts containing directions for ceremonies and rites we meet with the 
phrase &A.NA Gt.BILXA (= difaru) cf. No. 12, 1. 86, K 6052, 1 . 5, IV R 55 [62], 
No. 2, Obv. 1. 23, etc. If we here assign to dipdrti its usual meaning of “torch” 
{cf. p. 6) it is not easy to see what meaning attaches to $A.NA, In fact the 
phrase appears inexplicable to me, unless we assume that dipdru 1ms also the 
more indefinite meaning “flame” or “fire”. It was apparently on such an assump¬ 
tion that Strong- {Journal asiatique, 1893, P* 382) suggests for the expression the 
meaning “un encensoir”. In that case SA.NA bur ah', and SA.NA dipdri Avould be 
practically synonymous. 



CEREMONIAL FORMULAE. 


21 


view is further supported by the fact that in Sm. 810, Obv. 1. 8 
(Bezold) there occurs the expression £ 1 ^ 

Mf KAS.SAG tumalli-ma tukan(an) “the KAS.SA G thou 

shalt fill up and offer”. To “fill up a liquid” would be ex¬ 
tremely colloquial English and in Assyrian the phrase would 
be meaningless; there would be nothing strange however in 
speaking of filling up such and such a drink-offering. The 

expression KAS.SAG (= satu), “the KAS.SAG of drink¬ 

ing”, i. e. that is drunk, which occurs in the same tablet, Obv. 
1 . 17 and in Sm. 937, 1. 4 (Bezold) would also seem to support 
this explanation. In No. 8, 1. 21 mi-ifa-fya tanaki(ki)-ma occurs 
in the place of the more usual KAS.SAG tanaki(ki)-ma . It is 
not possible however to argue from this passage alone that 
mi-ifi-ha = KAS.SAG , for we have already seen (cf. p. 14) 
that the latter half of the same line contains a variation from 
the usual formula. 

The colophon concludes with the direction ^JTT -iu an-ni-tu 
*2n- 'nu i my transliteration of which as minutu{tu) an-ni-tu mu- 
nu(nu) requires justification. If the phrase always occurred 
precisely in the form in which we find it in the present text, 
it might with plausibility be urged that the signs should be 
read phonetically: sit-tu an-ni-tu sit-nu , sit nit being regarded as 
Imperative I 2 from same “to repeat”, and sittu a substantive of the 

form derived from the same verb. This rendering however is 

upset by the fact that the verb does not always occur as 
For instance in IV R 55 [62], no. 2, Obv. 1 . 19 f. we find the 
direction siptu an-ni-tu III sanitu ina pan llu Istar ^ 31 -ma, and 
*ni without -mi is also to be found in Nos. 6, 96; 11, 45; 
12, 16 and 103; 30, 27; K 3292, 1. 7 etc. Moreover in 1 . 29 of 
K 6679 + K 8083, two fragments of a large tablet containing 
ceremonies and prayers to the goddess I star which I have 

recently joined, we find the form ffiTT-7/. These facts together 
prove conclusively that ^TTT is an ideogram, -nu and -u being 
merely phonetic complements. The phonetic complement -nu 
indicates that = manii in the present phrase, and this is 



22 PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 

put beyond a doubt by the fact that SA.MLNlggl occurring 
in V R 50, Col. II, 1 . 63 in the sense of repeating an incan¬ 
tation is rendered in the Semitic translation by inu-nu (cf 
Brunnow, List , no. 5972). But if -nu = viunu(nu) the sub¬ 
stantive ^JTT 4 u must be regarded as minutu(tu ), the whole 
phrase being equivalent to “This repetition (z. e. subject of 
repetition = incantation) repeat”. The direction refers to the 
prayer or incantation that precedes, not to that which follows 
the colophon in which it occurs. 

14. For a discussion of du UT GAL.LU as a synonym of 
Uu NINJB cf. Jensen, Kosmologic , p. 461 f. 

16. ta-si-la-ci-ti prob. = plur. of iasiltu, “decree, decision (?)”, 

a subs, of the form (or possibly xAxaj) from Vbm* Com- 

pare tanittu from l/HNl 

20. The indiscriminate use of i and % in the phrase t-ka-a 
i-ku-ti is striking. For the meaning of the words cf. Delitzsch, 
m p. 370 . 

LI. 27—29 recount the ceremonies and offerings which the 
suppliant states he has made to the god Ninib. After the 
formal statement of his name in 1. 26, he continues: “I have 
bound for thee a cord 53 . It is probable that this rite of binding 
a cord before the god belongs to the great body of sym¬ 
pathetic magic that plays so important a part in Babylonian 
sorcery. The spell was in all probability regarded as binding 
only so long as the cord remained knotted, its significance 
being somewhat similar to that of twisting the black and white 
threads mentioned as a spell in the sixth surftu tablet, Col. Ill, 
11 . 28—31, cf. Jensen, ZK II, p. 42 ff. The offering mentioned 
in the second half of the line is somewhat obscure; KU.A.TIR 
is indeed translated by Sayce (.Hihbert Lectures , p. 529) as 
“cones (?)” and in a footnote he gives the following three 
reasons for his translation: in K 4345, Col. Ill, 1 . 18 the signs 
*. A.TIR occur in the name of the plant samA -1 IR-ti-a-ru , Tiyarit 
is “the cedar” (II R 23, 23), and the determinative KU denotes 
the husk of a seed. Now A.TIR preceded by the derminative 

JIeJ has in all probability an entirely .different signification from 
A.TIR in combination with ti-a~ru and preceded by the de~ 



PRAYER TO DAMKINA ETC. 


2 3 


terminative fcTTte and in the second place the determinative 

I^J (= Hmil) denotes not “the husk of a seed”, but “field 
produce, grain”, cf. Jensen, ZR II, p. 31 and ZA III, p. 235. 
The KU.A.TIR is therefore probably an edible herb or serial. 
It is mentioned in the present passage as being offered to 
Ninib along with the sweet-smelling tarrinnu, and a drink- 
offering of mead, and forms a very common offering both 
in the ceremonies that accompany some of the present class 
of texts and in regulations for offerings generally, cf. Nos. 12, 
3; 15, 20; 30, 21; 58, 26; IV R 23, no. 1, Rev. Col. Ill, 1. 27 j 
K 3245. Col. II, I.12 {cf. Bezold, Catalogue , p.576), K 6060, 
1 . 6, K 6068, Col. II, 1 . 3 {cf. op. cit., p. 760), K 6207 + K6225, 
1 . 7, K 6679 -f- K 8083, 1. 4, K 8932, 1. 5, etc. 


No. 3. 

Transliteration. 

1 . bi~ lit . 

2 . liki-i . 

3 . ilu-su u tlu istar-su . 

4 . a-ta-mar . 

5 . saniu-u feidittu-ki apsic . 

6. [sHaiti* 1 5 a kis-sa-ti lik-ru-buj-ki £ ilani 1,1 rabidi* l libbu-ki 

li-su-[ru-u ?] 

7 . [ llu ]t-a li-sar-bu-u bilu-ut-[ki] 

8 . [ llu ]Dam-ki-na hi-lit sami-i u irsitim[(tim ?)] 


9. [INIM.INIM.MA] SU IL.LA du Dam-ki~na.[KAN] 

10. [siptu ap-lu gas-ru] bn-kur ilu Bil £ siir-pu-u 1 git-ma-lu i-lit-ti 

LSAR.RA * 

11. [sa pu-litfcj-iu lit-bu-sn 2 ma-lu-u 3 ljar~ba-su 

12. [ du UT'GAL.LU] sa la im-mafy-Jja-ru ka-bal-su 

13. [su-pu-zt] man-za-za ina Haiti* 1 rabidi* 1 

14. [ina LKUR bit ta]-si-la-a-ti sa-ka-a ri-sa-a-ka 


1 A htr-j)u- 7 £. 


2 A [lit]-bu-lu. 


















24 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


15. [id-din-ka-ma iln Bil abu-ka] ti-rit kul-lat ilani pl ka-tuk-ka 

tam-[Ij,at] 

16 . [ta-dan di-in ti-ni-si-i-ti] k tus-ti-sir la su-su-ra 1 i-ka-a [i-ku-ti] 

No. 3 (K 8122) is a portion of what was probably a large 
tablet similar to No. 6. The sixteen lines that have been pre¬ 
served consist of the conclusion of a prayer to the goddess 
Damkina (11. 1-—8) and the commencement of one to the god 
Ninib ( 11 . 10—16). The first four lines are fragmentary and give 
no connected text, but from the fifth line onwards the prayer 

reads: — “May Heaven be thy joy, may the Abyss. 

6. May the gods of the world be favourable to thee: may the 

great gods bless thy heart! 7. (May.) la increase 

thy dominion! 8. 0 Damkina , lady of heaven 

and earth!” This conclusion, which has been restored from 
that of the prayer to the goddess I star in No. 8 , is not an 
uncommon one; for somewhat similar endings cf. No. 6, 11. 127 
—129, No. 9, 11 . 19—21, etc. In the latter of these two tablets 
the gods Anu and la are substituted for “the Heaven” and 
“the Abyss” invoked in 1 . 5 of the present text. The prayer 
to Ninib is duplicate of No. 2, 11. 11—20, for the translation of 
which see p. 18. 


No. 4. 

Transliteration. 


1. 

2. .. -sn . 

0 . u $ipu(?)- . 

4. li-pis a-mi-ri -. 

5 . ina pi nisi pl lis-sa-kin . 

6 . -ni tas-mi-i u sa-li-mu . -sui -. 

7 - [ llu ]l~ a ina lib-bi-ka damikti(ii) ^ 


8. 1 NIM.INIM.MA SU IL.L A ilu la.KAN 

9. siptu llu Dam-ki-na sar-rat Ml ilani pl la-tu 


* A lu-lu-ru. 

















PRAYERS TO tA, DAMKINA AND BA’U. 


10. al-ti llu f-a ka-rid-tu cii-ti 

11. llu IR , NI.NA sar-rat kdl ilani ^ 1 Id-tit £; al-ti llu I-a ka-rid-tu at-ti 

12. sur-ba-ti ina ildni pl ld-ii par-su-[ki?] 

13. -mi-at xlu Anunnaki nm-da-at ilu Igigi 

14. [bz]-lit LTUR.RA ka-mi-ut LA . 

J 5. -h .- pi -. llu l-a a-si-bat apsii 

bz-lit sami u [irsiti] 

16. [ana-ku pulami] apil pulani an-fyn su-ut-lu- . 

17. [ina lumun ilu atalz] Uu Sin sa ina arfyi pulani iimi [pulani 

isakna(na)] 

18. [lumun idd 0 l ] ITLMIS limnitift 1 la tab at it* 1 ] 

19. [sa ina ikalli-ya u mati]-ya ibasd-a mursn dan-nu . 


20 . lisani- 

21 . im- . 

22 . 


Rev. 


23. [ 1 NIM.IN 1 M.MA] SU IL.LA 

24. [siptu tlu Bdu] biltu sur-bu-tu a-si-bat sami~i [illuii pl ] 

25.. rim-ni-tuzn ka-i-sat . 

26. [nap l]-hi-us-sa tas-mu-ii ki-bit-sa sul-[niul] 

27. [al]-si-ki biltu i-ziz-zi-ma si-mi-i ka-ba-[ai] 

28. di-ni da-ni pur us parasi(si) dug-g an di- . . 


29. [asJjurJ-ki a-sz--ki ulinnu-ki as-bat kima ulinnu ili-ya 11 

xlu [istari-ya] 

30. [di]- 7 ii di-ni pumssa-ai pimisi(si) a-lak-ti si- . 

31. [as-stwi] i-ii- 7 'a ga- 77 ia-la su-zu-ba ti-di-[z] 

32. [ds-su 7 H] bul-lu-tu sul-lu- 77 iu ba-su-u it-ii-[ki] 

33. [biltu] . bikztu(r) ad-dazi-ki sumu-ki as- . 

34. [ip-sa]-ki uz 7 ia du -ai ii-ri-ni-in-zii-via ilu-ui-ki lut- . 

35. [fits] kati-ya znuJj-ri-zna likz-i un- 7 ii-ni-[ya] 

36. [lu-us]-pui'-ki ana ili-ya zi-ni-i llu istari-ya zi-ni-[ti] 

37. [ana ilu] ali-ya sa sab-su gam-hi libbu-su it-ti-[ya] 

38. [ina] sutti u bi-ri sa sa -. 

39. [ina] lumun tlu at a li llu Sin sa ina ar&i pulani umi pulani 

isakna[( 7 ia)] 

40. [lumun] idati ^ 1 ITLMIS limmti * 1 la tdbdti[ pl ] 

4 1. [sa ina] ikalli-ya u 7 ndti-ya ibasa~[a] 

42. pal-lja-ku ad-ra-ku u sz'i-ta-du-ra-[ku] 
























2 6 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


43. ina a-mat ki-bi-ti~ki sir-ti sa ina LKUR . 

44* u an-ni-ki ki-nim $a ul zmi-[u] 

45. Hi sab-su litura(ra) llu istari-ya zi-ni-tu . 

46. Hu ali-ya ilu Marduk sa i-gu-ga . 

aj . -zi-zu . ilu Bau biltu sur-bu-tu ummu 


48. ilu Marduk .. mari $a . 

4g. ki-bi-i . 

50 . 

The Obverse of No. 4 (K 8105) commences with a few 
broken lines from a prayer to the god la, which is followed 
by the beginning of an address to the goddess Damkina , the 
wife of la and queen of the Abyss. The first line of the Re¬ 
verse consists of a colophon-line referring to a preceding in¬ 
cantation , of which however no trace remains, and the name 
of the god or goddess to whom the incantation was addressed, 
which originally stood in the second half of the line, has also 
perished. The rest of the Reverse contains a prayer to the 
goddess Ban , from which in all probability not very much is 
missing. Like the prayers to Sin and TaSmilu in No. 1 these 
two addresses to Damkina and Bctu are intended for recitation 
on the occasion of an eclipse of the Moon (cf. 11 . 17—19 
and 39—41). To judge from its shape it would appear prob¬ 
able that the tablet when complete contained five or six in¬ 
cantations, of which the remains of these three only have been 
preserved. Of the prayer to la too little remains for trans¬ 
lation, and that to Damkina , though better preserved, is some¬ 
what fragmentary. After invoking the goddess in the first seven 
lines, her suppliant is apparently going on to entreat the re¬ 
moval of a great disease that has resulted from the eclipse, 
when the tablet ends abruptly. 

Translation. 

9. O Damkina , mighty queen of all the gods, 

10. O wife of la , valiant art thou! 

11. O IR.NINA , mighty queen of all the gods; 0 wife of la 

valiant art thou I 

12. Thou art great among the gods, mighty is thy command! 















PRAYERS TO lA, DAMKINA AND BA’U. 


27 


13. O thou that ..... the Anunnaki , that knowest the Igigi , 

14. O lady of the Abyss, strong- one of., 

15. Thou that. la , thou that dwellest in the 

Abyss, O lady of heaven and earth! 


16. I so and so, son of so and so, am weak.. 

17. In the evil of an eclipse of the Moon, which in such and 

such a month on such and such a day has taken place, 

18. In the evil of the powers, of the portents, evil and not good, 

19. Which are in my palace and my land, a terrible 

disease. 

In his petition to the goddess Ban the suppliant implores 
help in his extremity: he has had a vision at the time of an 
eclipse of the Moon, in consequence of which he feels that his 
god and goddess and Marduk the god of his city are angry 
and have deserted him; let Bau therefore in mercy use her 
influence to ensure their return and a renewal of their favour. 
The following is a translation of the prayer: — 

24. O Bau, mighty lady that dwellest in the bright heavens, 

25. O merciful goddess, the bestower of.,, 

26. Whose regard is prosperity, whose word is peace] 

27. I beseech thee, O lady, stand and hearken to my cries! 

28.give judgement, make a decision.! 

29. I have turned to thee, I have sought thee, thy ulinnu have 

I grasped like the %dinnu of my god and my goddess! 

30. Give my judgement, make my decisions,.my path, 

31. Since thou knowest to protect, to benefit, to save, 

32. Since to raise to life, to give prosperity rests with thee! 


33. O lady.tears have I given thee, thy name have 

I. 

34.. . my ears, do thou protect me and let me . . 

. . . thy divinity! 


35. The raising of my hand accept and take away my sighing! 

36. Let me send thee unto my angry god, unto my goddess 

who is angry, 

37. Unto Marduk , the god of my city who is incensed, whose 

heart is enraged (?) with me! 

38. In the dream and the vision which.. 

39. In the evil of an eclipse of the Moon which in such and 
such a month on such and such a day has taken place, 














28 


PRATERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


40. In the evil of the powers, of the portents, evil and not good, 

41. Which are in my palace and my land, 

42. I am afraid, I tremble and I am cast down in fear! 

43. At the word of thy exalted command which.in Ikur, 

44. And thy sure mercy which changeth not, 

45. Let my wrathful god return, let my angry goddess., 

46. Let Marduk the god of my city who is enraged., 

47.O Bdu, mighty lady,.mother! 

9. r ~ti l < which occurs in 11. 9 and 11, and r- it in 1. 12 I 
have transliterated Id-tu and l&-u respectively. The adj. is 

probably a formation of the “to be strong”, though 

the more usual form of the word is Itu . 

25. The beginning of this line is probably to be restored 
[il-tum] rim-ni-tum, cf. No. 7, 1 . 35, etc. 

26. For tasmu , “prosperity” cf. 82—9—18, 3737, 1 . 34 
(Budge, PS BA , Vol. X, p. 86 ff.) d-ru-ufo Ht-ul-mu u 
Jensen, Kosmologie , pp. 280, 332, etc . 

28. One sign only appears to be missing from the begin¬ 
ning of this line, which may possibly be restored: [ana] dBm 
da-ni purus parasi(si) etc. In this case the sentence forms an 
introduction to the one that follows it, giving the suppliant’s 
motive in seeking out the goddess. The end of the line con¬ 
tains a phrase similar to di-ni da-ni and purus pamsi(si) , the 
subs, dug-gun standing in parallelism with di-ni and purus , 
while di- forms the first syllable of the corresponding verb. 

29. Besides the corresponding passages in the parallel 
text No. 6, 11. 71 ff. and its duplicates, phrases similar to those 
in 11 . 29-32 are to be found in K 2587, Obv. 11 . 34-38 (IV R 
60 [67])- The ulinnu mentioned in 1. 29 was probably a woven 
scarf or garment in which the figure of the god was draped, 
for, from IV R 21, no. 1 (b), Obv. 1 . 3 f. it is clear that the 
uhnnu was capable of being dyed and could be swathed around 
the hands, while the present passage shows that a god or 
goddess might possess one, which a suppliant could hold when 
marking his appeal. Cf also KL 6034, 1 . 5 f. %lu Sama§ imid-ka 
ilu Samas uhnnu-ka as-bat [ulinnu-ka kima tilinnu] ili-ya ilu iUari- 
ya as-bat , No. 6, 1. 73, No. 7, 1. 11, etc , 








PRAYER TO THE GOD DI.KUD ETC. 


2Q 


30. For the restoration of the beginning of this line cf» 
K 2612, 1 . 5, etc. 

37. also occurs in the somewhat parallel text 

No. 7, 1 . 19, while in No. 6, 1. 82 we find the word written 

There is no doubt therefore that the word should be 
transliterated gam-lu or kam-lu from The verb is 

used in parallelism with sabdru and is followed by the prep. 
itti (see especially No. 6, 1. 82 sa sab-su-ma gdm-!n itti-yd ), so 
that in meaning it must be very similar to, if not synonymous 
with, sabcisu . 


No. 5. 

Transliteration. 


1 . ina ilani * 1 ri-sa-a ri-z- . 

2 . ulinnu-ka ti-ki- . 

3 .- bi su-mi su-ri-ka umi$ l -ya 

4 .- bn-ri ru-up-pis li-im-id lil-li-ki 

5 . -ur mnrsi-ya ki-bi ba-ld-ti 

6 . -ni lip-pa-tir lit-ta-bil a-di- . 

7 .- ma-si kil-la-ti su-pu-ufa ta-ni-[&il] 

8. [lu]-sa-pi lib-bi-ka lut-ta-id zi-kir-ka 

9. DA. GAN la pa-da-a ku-i-u-ud-ka lnd 4 ul 

7 o. IN 1 MJN 1 MMA SU IL.LA ilu DI.KUD.fKAN] 

11. [$iptu] kd-rid-tum 1 llu ls-tar ka-nii-nt i-ld-a-[ti] 

12 .- tu 2 sami-i u irsitim(tim ) 3 $a-ru-ur kib-ra-a-ti 4 

13 . -zn-nin-m 5 bu-uk-rat ilu Sin i-lit-ti llu NlN.GAL 

14 . -am-td dar-ri su-mi-t ku-ra-du 1 ilu Samas . 

15. [ ilu ]Is-tar a-na-ti-ma 8 sami-i ta-bi-Q 4 i 9 

16. .... . ilu Bil ma-li-ki ta-di-im-mi da -. 

17 .. -mu ba-an-tu? . u . 

18 . -turn ilu l-a ina apsi . 

19 . -purl-ni-u . 


1 A ka-rid-tit. 2 A DLBAR. 3 A irsiti(ti). 4 A Sa-ru-ru kibrdtipP {/. 

5 A . -in-nin-na. 6 A . -mat. 7 A fcu-ra-dt. 3 A a-nu-[ti-?na]. 

9 A tz-bz-U-[ii]. 



























30 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


The upper portion of No. 5 (K 6019) contains the con¬ 
clusion of a prayer to the god DI.KUD , Though most of the 
lines are imperfect the general sense of the various petitions 
is clear. After asking for the increase of his name and for 
length of days, the suppliant prays for life and the removal of 
his sickness: let his sin and his sighing be taken away that he 
may praise the heart of the god and glorify his name. LI. 11 
—19 give the beginning of a prayer to I star, which is duplicate 
of No. 1, 11 . 29 ff., for a translation of which cf p. 5. 


No. 6. 

Transliteration. 

1. siptu bilu $ur-bu-[u] . 2. tlu A-nim $ur-bu-[u] 

. 3. ilu samz-z . 4. ilu A-nim ilu 

samz-[i] . 5, pa-sir u-mi . 6. Uu A- 

nim pa-[sir u-mi] . 7. pa-$ir Sun blip*?] . 

8. si’it-ti . 9. dS-tz-i . 10, Sal-mu 

. 11. libbu Hi -. 12. ag-gu • , . 

. 13* lip-pa-a$- . 14. liL-tak-fai . 

. 15* da-Lit .. . 16. nir-bi ilu- . 


17. IN 1 MJNIM.MA 


[SU 1 L.LA] 


18. siptu %lu Nuzku Sur-[bu-u il-lit-ti Dur-ilu KI ] 19. na-ram 

llu Bil [ma-li-ki mu-tim . J 20. suk-kal-lu 1 si-[i-ru 

mu-nl-ia- 4 r] . 21. ina Sami-i Midi[l l ki-bit-ka] 

. 22. ina I.$AR.RA [Sur-ru-fat] . 

23. a-na a-[si-ka 2 u-pak-ku]- . 24. ina ba-li~ka 

[ ilu A-nim a-bi]~ . 25. it *"Btl ma-[li-ku IS] . . . 

.26. ina ba-li-ka 3 ul [u$-li]- .27. ana- 

ku pulanu apil pulani Sa [ilii-hi pulanu ilu iStar-Su pulanitum(tum)] 

28. as-hur-ka h-i-[ka] . 29. [ri]-Sa-a 4 ri-i- . 

ak-[kilr] . 30. .far Uu Bzt . 

-bid- . 3 1 . -ya . 

- Ur . 32. ilu . . ilu Szdu . 

33. pu-u u !i-$a-[nui] . 34. a ?m pani-ka al- . 


1 A sukkallu . 2 A ana a$i-ka. 8 A ina bali-ka, 4 A Ha- 












































PRAYERS TO ANU, NUZKU AND SIN. 


31 


35. IN 1 M.INIM.MA 


[SU IL.LA] 


36. siptu llu Sin na- .37. ga-sir ina . 

38. sar kib-ra- [a-ti] . 39. a-sa-rid ilani[* 1 ?] 

. 40. sa nap-har gi- . 41. ina 

ba-li-ka . 42. ba-ra-a- . 43. a-sir 

at-ta .44. ma-ak-tum $a .45. di¬ 
in kit’ti . 46. sa-ap-la .*. 4 j. la 

a-lit-tum ma . 48. sd is-ti-ni- . 

49. sa ka-a-sa . 50.51. 

-li- 1 - . -ti 5 2. sa is-sa^-ru . -i-ma 

53. sa sa-ap-fyi . -nun-su 54. sa dr-na tuk -. . . . 

. -nam 55. sa ilu-su iz- . itti- . 

-sal-lam 56. i-nu-ma . -mu . -ya 

57. ilu i$tar . -sa . pi-ya 58. ul-tu 

. -at ni-ir-iit . Ulya 59. si-i-ti fau- 

.- u bii-tuk-[ku i] . - sa- nu - nim - ma 

60. i-ta-$u-us- . -bi . napistzm(tim) 61. al- 

si-ka bi-lmn . * l 62. ki-nis nap-lis-an-ni-ma . . . 

. 63. ia-ai-ra-ta llu Sin .. 64. i-ti-ra-ta 

llu Sin . 65. gam-ma-la-ta ilu Sin ina ilani* l . . . 

.. 66. sa la ma-si-i tlu Sin la . 67. 2/2 

u is-ta-ri zi-nu-ti . 68. i-lut-ka rabita(ta) ki-i-l . . 

. -ma-am-ma 69. lib-bi-ka lu-sa-pi [dd-li-li]-ka lud-lul 


70. 1 NIM.IN 1 MMA 


S(f IL.LA 


^ Sin. KAN 


71. siptu llu Bdu 2 biltu tur-bu-tum mnmu ri-mi-[ni-tum 3 a]-si-bat 

sami-i illuti * 1 

72. al-si-ki bilti-ya i-ziz-zi-[im-ma si-mi] -2 4 ya-a-ti 

73. is-i-ki as-fyur-ki* kima nlinnu [ili-ya u i,u istari]-yd ulinnu-ki 

as-bat 

74. ds-szim di-in 6 da-a-[ni] purus parasi(si ) 7 

75. ds-sum bul-lu-lu u sul-[lu-mu] ba-su-u 8 itti-ki 

76. ds-Sum i-ti-ra ga-ma-[la u] su-zu-ba ti-di-i 9 


1 Possibly im. 2 BE z7u Bi-lit Hi. 8 CE ri-mi-ni-tum. * Q B si-mi-i. 

5 B asfyur-ki. 6 B di-ni. 7 D [pa]-ra-su. 8 CE baSu-u. 9 For 1 . 76 B reads 

aS-Sum itira gamdla ., C . [gamdla] ti -.. 

E . [gamdla] ti-di-i. 














































32 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


77. ilu Bau 1 Sur-[ba-tum ] 2 ummu n-mi-ni-tum 3 

78' /i»* ma--du]-ti kakkabani*** Sd-[ma-mi ]s 

79 . 6. as-fair-ki 7 ip-Sa-ki [uzna (lH -ai] 

80. upuntu mufaj-ri-in-m-ma h-ki-H un-[ni-ni-ya] 

81. [lu-uS-pur-ki] ana ili-ya zi-ni-i Uu [istari-ya zi-ni-ti] 

82. [ana iln ali-ya Sa] Sab-su-ma g&m-lu 9 [itti-ya ] 10 

83. ii. da-ta- . 

84. a-ta- . 

85. ilu Bau x 2 biltu Sur-bu-tum 13 ina a-mat ki-bi-ti-ki fair-ti Sa ina 

LKUR .,/ 

86. & an-ni-ki ki-nim lA Sa [til inii-u] 

87. ili-ya Sab-su li-tu-ra ilu iStari-ya zi-ni-tum . 

88. iln ali-ya Sa Sab-su-ma g&m-lu [libbu-Su itti-ya] 

89. Sa i-zi-za li-nu-fya Sa i-gu-ga . 

90. ilu Bau 12 biltu Sur-bu-tum sa-bi-ta-at a -. 

9 r. ana 1$ ilu Marduk Sar ilanH 1 bzlu ri-nti-ni-ya pit- . 

92. su-lul-ki rap-Sit 16 ta-ai-ra-tu-ki kab-[tal] . 

93. gi-mil dum-ki u x t ba-ld-ti ili- . 

94. lib-bi-ki lu-Sa-pi d&-li-[li-ki lud-lul] 

^7 IN 1 M.INIM.MA SUILXA^B^ U [El] . 

96. KAS.SAG ta?iaki(ki) Siptu III Sanitu munu-ma . 

97. Siptu Sur-bu-u git-ma-[lu a-bl-rum llu Mar duk ] xH . 


98 . id-diS-Su-u pi-tu- . 

99 . muS-ti-Sir am [mztu u am baltu] . . . 

100 . nu-ur Sami -1 [u ir$itim(tim ?)] 

101 . -th-ki . 

102 . ilu Marduk [bilu] . 

103 . -ha . 


1 £ itubi-lit Hi. 2 B $a-&u-[tum], D [$a]-fyu-tum } E $a-[feu-tumj. 8 J> 

um-mu ri-mi-ni-tum. 4 B kakkab. 5 BDE Sa-ma-mi. 6 For the commencement 

of this line breads: biltu ka- . 7 E . -ludf-ki. 8 E Hki-i. 9 B gbit- 

[lu ] 9 E gam-lu. 10 E itti-ya. 11 L. 83 f. are omitted by DE and probably by 

B; in their place D reads [ina ? bi]-ri u Sulti it-ta-na-al- .. E 

. Sutti it-ta-na-a$-ka~nam"ma\ before 1 . 85 B inserts the eclipse- 

formula ina lumun % l u atali etc. in three lines, which E introduces with the line 
[ana-ku pulami aftil fiulani Sa] ilu-lu puldnu^iUar-lu puldmtum(tum). 12 B l7u M- 
lit Hi. 13 E lur-bu-tu. 14 D ki-ni. 15 B a-na. 16 B rap-lu. 17 B it. 
18 The bracketed portions of II. 97—102 have been restored from No. 10, 11 . 7—10. 






























PRAYERS TO BA 9 U AND THE SUN-GOD. 


33 


104. 


. -bi-ti 

105. 



106. 



107. 



108. 


di-[. . . 

109. 

. -ar-ma 

• * 

110. 

. -lip immiru 

111 . 

daian ilani 


I 12. 

ilu Samas Ml 

si-mat 

11 3- 

2 sim-ti 

si-im 

114- 

li-si-ra 


11 5- 

lid-mi-k a 


116. 

suttu at 

-tu-la 

117* 

i-sa-ris lul-lik 

118. 

sa u-mi-ya 


119. 

su-ut-li-ma-am 

-ma 

120. 

ina sil-lu u 

ma-gir 


. . [baldtu . -It] 

[sami-i tu-pat-ii] 

, . ta-sak-kan nu-u-ru] 

ta-a ta-sa-as-si] 
ta-[sa~tar siru] 

Ml [ ilu Igigi] 

mati 1 [ . is - u usurati pl at-ta-ma] 

a-lak-[ti du-um-mi-ik] 
i-da-[tu-u-a] 
sun at£ l - [ii-a] 

ana damikti(ti) [suk-na] 
tap-pi-i [. . sii-tii] 

ln-u [damikti(ti) 3 7 

ka- .. 


121. *[ilu ul-si] u ri-sa-a-ti lu- . 

122. [ihi sa la s a limn h-iz]-ziz ma iinni-ya llu aialu 

123. lit-tal- . ili-ya sal-li- . 

124. ai ip-[par-ki] rabisu sul-[mu] . 

125. li-ta-mi-ka llu BU . 

126. ilu Ai Ipi-ir-tu na-[ram]- .,• 

127. ilu Samas a-sa-rid ilani * l .* • * 

128. samit-u fadutu-ka [irsilim(tim) li~] * • • 

129. ilani^t j:# kis-sa-ti [lik~TU-bn-ka) 

130. ilani$ l rabuti* 1 hb-[ba-ka li-tib-bu] 

131. INIMJN1M.MA SU 1L.[LA] . 


132. siptu ilu su-pn-u 

133. ikal milu Assur-ban-apli etc . 


It will be seen from the registration number (K 2106 + 

K2384 + K3605 + K3393 + K6340 + K8983 + K9576 


1 F bil Simatitl. 3 After 1 . 112 .F inserts ana-ku pulanu apil pidani Sa 
ilu-Su pulanu 'luiitar-Su puldnUum(tum), which is followed by the eclipse-formula 
ina lumun ih ‘atal‘i etc. in three lines. 3 The word damilfti has been restored 
from No. to, 1 .19. i The bracketed portions of 11 . I2lf, 124. 12G, 12S have 
been restored from No. 10, 11 . 20 24. 



























34 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


+ K 9688 + K 11589 + K 12911 K 13792 4 “ K 13800) 
that No. 6 is built up of twelve comparatively small fragments 
of the K. Collection. Guided by the style of the composition 
and the character of the writing I have gradually collected and 
joined together these fragments to form the present text. Re¬ 
storations also have been made from duplicates, so that even in 
its present somewhat imperfect state, the text furnishes a good 
idea of the original size of most of the tablets that are here 
published (cf Introduction). The tablet contains five prayers 
addressed respectively to Anu, Nuzku, Sin , Ban and probably 
Samas , though in the first, second and fifth prayer the name of 
the god is missing from the colophon-line with which each con¬ 
cludes. Of the prayer to Anu ( a ) only the beginnings of the 
lines remain, from 11. 1—7 of which we gather that the god was 

invoked as: “Mighty lord., O Anu , mighty lord.. 

God of the sky., 0 Anu , god of the sky., Loosener 

of the day.. 0 Ami, loosener of the day.. Interpreter 

of dreams.!’ ? The second prayer (b) to the god Nuzku com¬ 

mences: “0 Nuzku , mighty one, offspring of Ditrihi, The darling 

of Bit the prince, the director of.. The exalted messenger, 

who ruleth.. In the bright heavens is thy command 

., In Bara thou makest bright.!” The remainder 

of this prayer and the greater part of that to Sin, the Moon- 
god (c) which follows it, are too broken for translation; in the 
latter however 11.61 — 65 read: “I have called upon thee, O 


tord., Truly pity me and., Thou art pitiful, O 

Sin .. Thou art a protector, O Sin ., Thou art a 


benefactor, O Sin, among the gods.!” The prayer to 

Bdu (d), which stands fourth on the tablet and is to some 
extent complete, is a parallel text, though not a duplicate, to 
the prayer addressed to the same goddess on the Reverse of 
No. 4, as will be seen from the following translation. 

Translation. 

71. O Bdu , mighty lady, merciful mother, that dwellest in the 

bright heavens, 

72. I beseech thee, O lady, stand and hearken unto me! 

73. I have sought thee, I have turned to thee, like the ulinnu 
of my god and of my goddess thy ulinnu have I grasped, 

















PRAYER TO THE GODDESS BA’U. 


35 


74. Since to give judgement, to make a decision, 

75• To raise to life and to give prosperity rests with thee, 

76. Since thou knowest to protect, to benefit and save! 

77. O Ban, mighty lady, merciful mother, 

78. Among the multitude of the stars of heaven, 

79. [O lady,] I have turned to thee,. 

80. The upuntu-'pl&nt accept and take away my sighing! 

81. Let me send thee unto my angry god, unto my goddess 

who is ■ angry, 

82. Unto the god of my city who is wroth and is enraged 

with me! 

83 * • • • .. 84.. 

85. O Bau , mighty lady at the word of thy exalted command 

which.in tkur , 

86. And thy sure mercy which changeth not, 

87. Let my wrathful god return, let my angry goddess.. 

88. Let the god of my city (return) who is wroth and whose 

heart is enraged with me! 

89. Let him that is incensed be pacified, let him that is enraged 

.i 

90. O Ban , mighty lady, that dost hold., 

91. Unto Marduk , king of the gods, my merciful lord. 

92. Broad is thy protection, mighty is thy compassion.! 

93. The gift of favour and life upon [me bestow], 

94. That I may praise thy greatness, that I may bow in humility 

before thee! 

After a colophon of two lines in which the KAS.SAG 
(cf ‘ supra , p. 20 f.) is appointed to be offered and the incan¬ 
tation to be recited three times, there follows ( e ) the last prayer 
on the tablet. This is in all probability addressed to the Sun- 
god, though the prayer appears to commence with an invocation 

to Marduk beginning: “O mighty, perfect, powerful Marduk .! 

Who art unique, who openest., The ruler of the dead 

and of the living .the Light of heaven and 

earth!” The next ten lines are very broken, after which the 
tablet continues: — 

in. O judge of the gods, lord of the Igigi , 

112. O Samas , lord of the land's destiny, the.of charms 

art thou! 















3 6 PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 

113. Decree my destiny, make pleasant my path! 

114. Let my powers be propitious! 

115. Let my dreams be favourable! 

116. The dream I have beheld do thou establish favourably! 
In these lines the occasion of the prayer is stated to have 

been a dream, the significance of which was evidently ambig¬ 
uous, for the suppliant prays that its result may be favourable. 
The conclusion of the prayer, which has been already referred 
to {cf. supra, p. 24) as one that is not uncommon, runs: “O 

Samas, prince of the gods!.May heaven be thy joy, may 

the earth.! May the gods of the world bless thee! May 

the mighty gods benefit thy heart!” The catch-line commences: 
“0 mighty god!” 

18. For the city Durilu cf. Delitzsch, Paradies , p. 230. 
The sign-group DUR.AN.KI is, however, also explained by 
Jensen ( Kosmologie , p. 485, n. 1) as a cosmic locality, “the place 
of the junction of heaven and earth”. 

23. The restoration a-na a-[f-ka] may be regarded as 
almost certain, supported as it is both by the traces on the 

tablet and by the variant reading ana *T -ka of the dupli¬ 
cate A. 

71. Before the incantation commencing with this line the 
duplicate D appears to have contained some directions for 
ceremonies, of which however only traces of three characters 
remain. Cf pi. 12, n. 1. 

73. In line 74 we should have expected some expression 
similar to basic ittiki or tidi for the two infinitives to depend on. 
Taking the text as it stands we must assume that the second 
assum does not commence a fresh clause, but is merely a repe¬ 
tition of the first, the infinitives in 1. 74 depending, like those 
in the following line, on ba$u ittika . These three lines, describ¬ 
ing the judicial but at the same time compassionate character 
of the goddess, give the reason for the appeal made in 1. 73. 

79. On the probable restoration of the beginning of this 
line cf, infra sub No. 7, 1 . 16. For as-fyur-kt the duplicate E 
evidently reads some other verb, the traces of which may be 

taken to represent either.- kid-ki , or possibly.- dan - 

kt\ the reading of D, so far as it goes, agrees with that of E. 






PRAYER TO THE SUN-GOD. 


37 


80. Though the meaning is clear the construction of 
upttntu muk-ri-in-ni-ma is unusual. While the suffix forms the 
direct object, zipuntu must also be regarded as governed by 
the verb: “Accept me in respect of the upuntu ”, L e. “accept 
my offering of the upuntu- plant”. For a discussion of the mean¬ 
ing of upuntu cf. Jensen, ZK. II, p. 31 f., where he shows that 
it is a plant capable of being used for food, that it is not very 
tall, that it is often employed in religious ceremonies and that 
its seeds are planted and not merely sown. Ha levy’s com¬ 
parison of the word with the Talmudic “pea” he thinks not 
unlikely. 

97. The bracketed portions of 11 . 97—102, 121 f., 124, 126, 
128 and of the word [damikti](ti) in 1. 118 have been restored 
from No. 10, 11 . 7—24. I have not throughout attempted a 
restoration of each of these incantations from the other, as 
they are too broken to admit of such a course, but in plates 
13, 14 and 21 I have given each text as it occurs on the tablet 
and in my transliteration have restored those passages only 
about which there appears to be no doubt. 


No. 7. 

Transliteration. 

1.2. nar-bi-ka .3. I.SAG.TLA 

fyidiitu- .4. I.ZID.DA .5. ilani 

sa samz-z .. 6. ilani * 1 rabuti* l . 

7. ilu A-nim ilu Bil . 

8 . INIM.INIM.MA SU [IL.LA] . 

9. siptu llu Bi-lit Hi 1 biltu sui'-[bu-tum umtnu ri-mi-ni-tum 2 a-si- 

bat samz-z illiiti* l ] 

10. al-sTki bilti-ya i-ziz-zi-[zm-ma si-mi-i 3 ya-a-ti] 

11. zs-z-ki asfyur-kH kima ulinnu [Hi-yd u tlu istari-ya ulinnu-ki 

as-bat] 

12. as-sum di-nH da-a-ni [pums pardsi(si) 6 ] 

I iluBdu. 2 A ri-mi-[ni-tum]. 3 A [tf-mi] 4 A as-}iur-ki. 5 A di-in . 

6 D [jbaj-ra-su. 











38 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


13. ds-sum bid-lit-tn 1 sul-lu-[mu hasii-u 2 zttz-kz] 

14. ds-sum itira gamdla [ tz-dz-z] 

15. ilu iBi-lit ili 4 bzltu Sa-hi-[tum 5 ummu ri-mi-ni-tum] C) 

16. ina ma--du-ti kakkab 7 Sa-ina-mi s bzltu ka- . 

- kid?-ki 9 ip-Sa-ki usna du -ai 

17. upuntu mufy-ri-in-ni-ma [liki-i 10 un-ni-nz-ya] 

18. lu-uS-pur-ki ana ili-yd zi-ni-[i llu istarz-ya zz-nz-ti] 

ig. ana ilu ali-ya Sa Sab-su-ma gam-[lu 11 itti-ya 1213 ina? bi-ri u 

Sutti it-ta-na-aS-ka-nam-iua] 

20. XA ina lurnun llu aialz llu Sin sa [ina ar&i pulani umi pulani 

* iSakna(na)] 

2 1. lumun idati[£ l ITLMIS limnitila tabati$ l ] 

22. sa ina ikalli-[yd u nidti-yd ibaSa-a] 

23. ilu Bi-lit ili l$ bzltu sur-[bit-turn 16 ina a-mat ki-bi-ti-ki $ir-ti Sa 

ina LKUR ./ 

24. u an-ni-ki [M-nim 17 Sa zd inu-zi] 

25. [ili]-yd Sab-su li-[tu-ra tlu iStari-yd zi-ni-tum] . 

26. ilu ali-ya Sa sab-su-[ma gdm-lu libbu-Su itti-ya] 

27. Sa i-zi-za li-nu-[&a Sa i-gu-ga] . 

28. llu Bz-lit ili lS . bzltu sur-[bu-tum sa-bi-ta-at a]- . 

29. a-na x 9 tlu Marduk Sar ilanibzlu [ri-mi-ni-ya pu]- . 

30. su-lul-ki rap-Su 20 ta-[ai-ra-tu-ki kab-ta?] . 

31. gi-mil dum-ki % 2X [ba-ld-ti ili]- . 

32. nar-bi-ki lu-Sa-[pi dd-lz-li-ki lud-lul] 

33 - INIM.miM.MA [SU IL.LA] . .. . 777777777 ’ 

Rev. 

34. Siptu kakkab Isfyara . . . 

35. il-tum rzm-ni-[tum] 

36. Si-mat , ik-ri-bi .... 



1 A here inserts the copula u. 2 AD ba-Su-u. 3 For 1 . 14 A reads db 

Sum i-ii-ra ga-ma- . Su-zu-ba ti-di-z, D . -ma-la u Su-zu-ba ti-di-i. 

4 ji iluBdu. 0 A Sur-[bu-tum]. 6 D um-mu ri-mi-ni-tum. 7 AE kakkabdniPK 
8 A Sd-[ma-?ni ]. 9 A as-frur-ki. 10 A li-ki-i; D [li]-M-[i]. 11 A g&m-ht, 

12 D [itti]-ya . 13 The latter half of the line from this point is omitted by A , 

and 11 . 20—22 by AdD\ in their place A contains the two lines. 

damta ~ 7 ., and. a-ta- . W x^efore 

1 . 20 E inserts the line [ana-ku fiuldnu a fill fiuldni Sa] ilu-Su fiuldmi iStar-Su 
fiuldnztum(tum). 15 AD pu]Bdu. 16 /) i U r-bzt-iu. 17 D ki-ni . 18 A dujjd v . 
19 A ana. 23 A rafi-Su. 2 1 A u. 


ana. 




















PRAYER TO ISgARA. 


39 


37. ka-i-sat napisti[(ti)] . 

38. ina u-mi an-ni-i .. 

39. ilu I.SUM . 

40. mn-kil-lu ad-mi-ki ... 

41. i-zi-za-ma da -. 

42. li-iz-zi-zu .. . 

43. ilu istaratH l . 

44. ina ki-bit-ti- ... 

45. si-mu-u ik-ri-bi . 

46. 'k at-tu-nu ki-nis naplisu-nin-ni . 

47. ma-’du ar-nu ya . 

48. ma-fyar-ku-nu ar-ni lip-pa-tir . 

49. di-ni. di-na purussa-ai [pumsifsi)] 

50. sd a-na ya-si kis-pi . . 

51. up-sa-si-i limutti(ti) sa amiluti* l sa . 

52. u minima sum-sn sa a-na ma-ka-li-i . 

53. sa mursu la tabiu(tu) DI.PAL.A KA.LU.BZfDA . 

54. ZLTAR.RU.DA kalu sa is-bn-ra . 


55. sa minima sumsu u-si-. . . . 

56. ina ki-bit-[ku?-nu] kit-ti sa ... . 

57. up-sa-su . [ai] itilju-ni ai ik-ru-bu-ni 

58. ana Hi i-[pi-si?] i-pis-li H-. . . . 

59. 7 lu Is--ra ummu rim-ni~ turn sd nisH 1 . *. . . 


60. ina lumun llu atali llu Sin sa ina arfai pulani umi pulani 

[isakna(na)] 

61. lumun idatH 1 ITI.MIS limniti * 1 la tabdtH 1 sa ina ikalli-ya 

u [mati-ya ibasa-a] 

6 2. [a]-na su-[a]-ti as bur- ki al-si-ki . 

63. .... -sa? . 

Parts of three incantations have been preserved by No. 7 
(K 3330+ Sm. 394 + 81 —2—4, 244). Of the first incantation only 
the beginning* of the last few lines remain. The second has 
been restored from duplicates, so that it presents a text from 
which very little is now missing. It is addressed to a goddess 
whom it hails under the title of Bilit Hi, and is intended not 
for general recitation but for use only after a lunar eclipse, 
the usual eclipse-formula being introduced before 1 . 23. With 
these two exceptions the composition closely follows the hymn 



























40 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


to the goddess JBau, in No. 6, for a translation of which cf. 
supra , p. 35 f. On the Reverse is a prayer to the astral deity 
Isbara (in 1 . 34 she is addressed by her title of kakkab Akmbit, 
cf. Jensen, Kosmologie p. 71). which like the second prayer 
on the tablet, contains the eclipse-formula {cf. 1 . 60 f.). The 

incantation commences: “O Akrabu .. Merciful goddess 

.. Who heareth supplication.Who bestoweth life 

.!” The god hum is next invoked, and he also is described 

as “the hearer of supplication”. In 11 . 46—48 both deities are 
addressed in a petition for mercy and the removal of sin 

(“Truly pity me.! Great is my sin.! Before 

you let my sin be loosened!”) From 1 . 49 onwards the sup¬ 
pliant addresses himself solely to the goddess. After petition¬ 
ing for judgement he comes to the main object of his prayer, 
which is to seek deliverance from sorcery and the spells which 
men may weave against him. 

14. In both the duplicates C and E before tidi, the last 
word in the line, there is a blank space preceded by traces of 

the character m. The third sign in the line is also m 
which = itira {cf. the dupl. A, and Brunnow, List , no. 7739). 

Since it is improbable that would be used by itself twice 

in the same line as an ideogram for different words, the two 

following signs m m must be regarded as a compound 
ideogram.; and, unless the text of C and E is wholly different 
from that of A (an unlikely supposition in view of their close 
resemblance in the preceding lines), we must conclude that 
Mm =. the inf. gamalcc of A, while the inf. Suzubn is 
omitted altogether. It is already known that MW (= S If. GAR) 

— gamalu {cf. Brunnow, List , no. 7250), so that m m 
(= =SU.KAR ) would represent a difference in writing the same word. 

16. The second half of this line, commencing biltu ka ~. . 

is probably to be restored biltu kafa-ti] . 

The verb that follows in A is as-tyur-ki, so that the line in that 

duplicate runs: “O lady! to thee have I turned etc.” The text 

however is probably to be restored according to E, which it 
follows in many places in preference to the text of A {cf. 

11 . 9, 15 f., 19—22). For the reading of E cf. supra p. 36. 








PRAYER TO THE GODDEwSS ISTAR. 


4J 


ig. [ina? bi]-ri u sutti it-ta-na-as-ka-nam-ma may possibly 
have been expanded to form 1 . 83 f. of A. 

26. gam-lu has been restored from A, the only duplicate 
that covers that portion of the text. It is possible that the 
tablet read gam-lu as in 1. 19. 

53 f. For a discussion of the phrases occurring in these 
two lines, cf. infra sub No. 12, 1 . 1. 

62. This line has been restored from K 9909, a fragment 
of a prayer, which is also addressed to the goddess Ishara and 
from 1. 59 onwards forms a closely parallel text (see below). 


No. 8. 

Transliteration. 

1. ta-a-bu su-up-pu-u-ki ki-i ki-ni-ub nis sumi-ki 

2. [nap]-lu-us-ki tas-mu-u kz-bit-ki nu-u-ra 

3. ri in i- nin -ni- in a llu Is-tar ki-bi-t na-fya-si 

4. ki-nis vap-li-si-in-ni-ma li-ki-i un-ni-ni-ya 

5. ir-di UZ-ki is-di-fru li- . 

6 . sar?-ta-a-ki a-Jpi-zu lu-bi-H tn-ub libbi -. 

7. ii-bil ap-sa-na-ki pa-sa-Jja suk- . 

8. u-ki- kakkadu-ki li-si-ra sa-li-mu 

9. as-sur sa-ru-ra-ki lu-u tas-mu-u ft ma-ga-ru 

10. is-ti--u ?iam-[ri]-ir-ri~ki lim-mi-ru zi-mu-u-a 

11. as-four bi-lut-ki [luj-u baldtu ft sul-rnu 

12. lu tas-lim tlu szdu damiktu sa pa- 7 ii-ki £ sa ar-ki-ki a-h-kdt 

llu lamassu lu tas-lim 

13. sa im-nu-uk-ki mis-ra-a lu-us-sip dum-ka lu-uk-su-da sa 

su-m i- lu-[uk-ki] 

14. ki - bi - ma lis - si - mi zik - ri 

15. a-mat a-kab-bu-li ki-ma a-kab-bu-u lu-u ma-ag-rat 

16. ina iu-ub siri u fau-nd lib-bi i-tar-ri-in-ni u-mz-sam 

1 7. iwti^-ya ur-ri-ki ba-la-ta sur-kz lu-ub-lut lu-us-lim-ma lu- 

us-tam-mar ilu-[ut-ki] 

18. i-ma 7i-sa-am-ma-ru lu-uk-su-ud £ samu-ii faidutu-ki apsii h- 

ris-[ki] 

G 






42 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


19. ilani pl sa kis-sa-ti lik-ru-bu-ki £ Haiti'* l rabuti 1,1 Hb-ba-ki H- 

tib[-bu] 

20. hVIM.lNIM.MA SU I LX A Uu XstarJ<AN ana pan iln I$tar 

SA.NA bur a si [tasakan(an)] 

21. mi-ify-Jja tanaki(ki)-ma SU IL.LA III Sanitu [ipu$(us)] 

22. siptu at-tu-nu kakhabani sar-hu-tum sa mu -.. 

23. nam-ru-ti sa ilani ^ 1 rabiiti* l . 

24. a-na Jjnl-lu-ku lim-nu-ti ib-nu-kn-nu-si llli A-nim £ ina sa- 

ma-mi . 

25. -ki li-tib abmt SIR.GAR.RA-ki su~ . 


26 .. . ,-su-ti sa bi-li-i MU-u 

27 .. -fan siru da-li-fyu 

28 ... 


No. 8 is formed from two fragments of the K. Collection 
(K 2396 + K 3893) which I have joined. Only one side of 
the tablet has been preserved, and this is evidently the Re¬ 
verse, as its beginning is too abrupt to form the commencement 
of an incantation. The first nineteen lines are addressed to 
the goddess Isiar , and only the beginning of the incantation is 
missing, in which the goddess is addressed by name, and which 
apparently concluded the Obverse of the tablet. LI. 6 — r 1 are 
regularly divided, the first half of each stating some attention 
or observance on the part of the suppliant towards his goddess, 
which balances and justifies the petitions contained in the second 
half of the line. The colossi whose favour is invoked in 11 . 12 
and 13 evidently surround the goddess on all sides and poss¬ 
ibly flanked the entrances to her shrine. Then follow various 
petitions couched in general terms for prosperity, life and length 
of days, and the prayer concludes with a formula of benediction. 

Translation. 

1 .good is thy supplication when the spirit (?) of thy 

name is propitious! 

2. Thy regard is prosperity, thy command is light! 

3. Have mercy on me, O Is/arl Command abundance! 

4. Truly pity me and take away my sighing! 5. 

Th y .have I held: let me bring joy of heart! 
















PRAYER TO THE GODDESS ISTAR ETC. 


43 


7. I have borne thy yoke: do thou give consolation! 

8. I have.thy head: let me enjoy success and favour! 

9. I have protected thy splendour: let there be good fortune 

and prosperity! 

10. I have sought thy light: let my brightness shine! 

11. I have turned towards thy power: let there be life and 

peace! 

12. Propitious be the favourable sidu who is before thee: may 

the lamassu that goeth behind thee be propitious! 

13. That which is on thy right hand increase good fortune: that 

which is on thy left hand attain favour! 

14. Speak and let the word be heard! 

15. Let the word I speak, when I speak, be propitious! 

16. Let health of body and joy of heart be my daily portion! 

17. My days prolong, life bestow: let me live, let me be per¬ 

fect, let me behold thy divinity! 

18. When I plan, let me attain (my purpose): Heaven be thy 

joy, may the Abyss hail thee! 

19. May the gods of the world be favourable to thee: may the 

great gods delight thy heart! 

After the colophon in 1. 20 f., prescribing an offering of 
incense and a drink-offering to be set before Istar and the 
ceremony of raising the hand to be three times performed 
{cf. supra p. 13 b), there follows the commencement of a hymn 

to certain stars, beginning: “Ye brilliant stars, who.! 

2. Ye bright ones, whom the great gods.! 3. To 

destroy evil did Anu create you!” 

17 f. The ends of these lines have been restored accord¬ 
ing to No. 9, 11 . 11, 24, etc, 

2\. In this line mi-iJi-fea takes the place of the common 
ideogram KAS.SAG {cf. supra p. 21). The mifyfau itself is not 
of uncommon occurrence in directions for ceremonies, cf. K 6209, 
1 . 9 where an offering of the mi-ilj-Ua is prescribed, the phrase 
[KASJ.SAG tanaki(ki)-ma occurring four lines above, K 6230 
Col. IV, 1 . 3 [miJ-i/j-ha ilia , 1 . 7 mi-ify-hi kun-ni , etc. 






44 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


No. 9. 

Transliteration. 

1. [siptu ga - as - ru sit - pu - u z - zzz altl Astur] 

2. [mbit ii-iz-kd-ru bn-knr ilu NU.DIM.M UD ] 

3. [] lu Marduk sal - ba - bu mu - rzt I. TUR.RA] 

4. [Ml I.SAGJLA tukulti(ti) Babili K/ ra - im I.ZID.DA] 

5. [mu-sal-lim napisti(tz) a-sa-rzd LMAH.TIL.LA nzu-dit-tu-u 

balafu] 

6. szt - [lul z ma - a - ti ga - mil ni - si rap - ta - a - ti] 

7. Hsumgal [ka - Us parakkdni? 1 ] 

8. sumu - ka ka - [lis ina pi nisi? l fa - a - 

9. 2ilu Marduk bilu rabit-u . 

10. ina ki - bi - ti - ka sir - ti [lit - ub - lut lu - - lim - 

11. lu - us - tam - mar [ ilu - - ka] 

12. / - ma zt - sa - am - ma - ru [ lu - zz/!? - ^ - ?/<:// 

13. - za - kin kit - tu [ina pi - yd ] 3 

14. .57/7) - si - ka damiktim(tim) [ina libbi - ydj^ 

15. ti - i - ru* u na - - za - zu lik - bu - [it damiktim(tim ) 6 / 

16. 2/2 - jzz li - iz - zzzzz zzzz/zz - [yd] 1 

17. du istari - yd li - - £2£ ina Sumzli - [yd] 8 

18. Hi - - li - #zz/ z/m idi - ya 9 lu - u - ka - [ai - #«/ 

19. 57//- - g&m - ma 10 ka - ba - a si - z/zzz - ^ u ma - ga - [ra] 

20. a-mat a-kab-bu-u ki-ma 11 a-ikab-bu-u lu-u ma-ag-[rai] 

2 1. llu Marduk bilu rabit-u napi$tim(tim) ki-[bi] 12 

22. ba - lat napisti(tim) - ya X3 ki - [bi] 

23. ma - bar - ka nam - ris a - ddl - lu - ka h /« - ^ - /&'/ 

24. tlu Bil urru-ka ilu l-a li-ris-[ka] 

25. / 'ilani] pl sa kit - sa - lik - ru - bu - [ka] 

26. [ilani]? 1 rabiiti? l lib - ba - ka 13 li - fib - [bu] 

27. [1NIMJN1MJMA SU 1L.LA * u [MarduLKAN] 


1 i? zu-lul. 


2 ^ iluMarduk bilu rabit-u ina kibU-ka ka-bit-ti Iwiib-lut. 


3 ^ &V-A2 wzo: * A damiMi(ti) ina libbi-ya. 5 A* 

7 A wwz im-ni-ya . 8 ^ y ia Su-mi-li-ya. 9 i>’ 10 

11 ^ /-wflt. 12 A rab& napiUifti) [ht]-u. 13 ^ napilti-ya. u 

I 5 B libba-ka. 


e />’ damikti(ti). 
B Ittr-giim-ma . 
7? a-dal-lu“ka. 




PRAYERS TO MARDUK. AND A GODDESS. 


45 


Rev. v 

28 . sir-tum SA.TAR i- . 

29 . [ ilu istarati]£ l ra-bit ilani[ pl ?] 

30 . -turn i-til-lit ilanika-nu-ut I. . 

31. [sar]-rat ilu TUR.DUL.KU sal-ba-bu a-pil ilu NIN. . 

32. sar-rat LSAG.ILA ikal ilanisa-du-[u . ■] 

33. bi-lit Babili KI su-lul ma-[ta-a-ti] 

34. ilu Bi-lit Hi sd bid-lu-ta 1 i-[ram-mu] 

35. it-ti-rat ina pus hi u [dannati] 

36. -ma-li-tu sa-bi-ta kdtd du2 na-[as-ki] 

37. [i]-pi-rat in-si sa-pi-kdt [zinc] 

38. na-si-rat napisti(ti) nadnat(at) [dplu u ziru] 

39. [ka]-i-sat baldtu li-kat un-ni-ni ma-[fai-rat tas-lit] 

40. [bal]-na-at nisi* l gi-nur [nab-ni-ta] 

41 . si-ta-as u si-la-an ba-i-[lat 3 llu Bil] 

42 . fair-it-ti UD.DA.GAN ta-bar-ri-[i sa-an-dak?] 

43 . -pal-ki kit-mu-sa [musi u im-ma] 

44 . -ki is-tu ma-[. . -ut-ki dal-la] 

43. [-at a-bu-ti in-si] 

45 . [ki-bi-i damikti(ti)] 

47. -[kir da-ba-bi] 

43. [ lu-uk-su-ud] 

49... -[bil pi-ya] 

.. [ damkutH 1 ] 

3!... [** ba-ni-ti] 

.. [ ti-ni-si-ti] 

.. [ damikti(ti)] 

34 _ ..*/" ktl—la—a—ti] 

33 # ... [-ki suk- — J 

56... [-turn- - J 

The two fragments K 2558 + K 9152, which I have joined 
and which form the basis of the text of No. 9, contain portions 
of two incantations, the first of which has been completed from 
Col. Ill, 11.1—21 of K 2538 etc., part of a composite and chiefly 
bilingual text (cf. IV R 2 , pi. 21*). LI. 1 — 12 have been restored 
from this tablet, which is cited as B, without alteration, but in 
II.X3—17 several restorations have been made in accordance 


1 A $a bid-lu-lu. 2 A $a-bi-ta-at bat. 3 B ba?-lat. 




























46 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


with other portions of the text (cf. also No. 22, 11 . 14 ff.) in 
preference to the corresponding readings of B. The incantation 
is addressed to Marduk and reads as follows. 


Translation. 

1. 0 mighty, powerful, strong one of A$$ur\ 

2. O noble, exalted, first-born of la\ 

3. 0 Marduk , the mighty, who causeth hum to rejoice! 

4. Lord of Isagila , Help of Babylon, Lover of Izida ! 

5. Preserver of life, Prince of I.MAH. TIL. LA, Renewer of life! 

6. Shadow of the land. Protector of distant peoples! 

7. For ever the Sovereign of shrines! 

8. For ever is thy name good in the mouth of the peoples! 

9. 0 Marduk , mighty lord,.. 

10. At thy exalted command let me live, let me be perfect and 


ir. let me behold thy divinity! 

12. When I plan, let me attain (my purpose)! 

13. Cause righteousness to dwell in my mouth! 

14.mercy in my heart! 


15. Return and be established! May they command mercy! 

16. May my god stand at my right hand! 

17. May my goddess stand at my left hand! 

18. May my god, who is favourable, stand firmly at my side, 

19. To give utterance, to command, to hearken and show favour! 

20. Let the word I speak, when I speak, be propitious! 

21. O Marduk , mighty lord, command life! 

22. The life of my life do thou command! 

23. Before thee brightly have I bowed (?) myself, let me be satisfied! 

24. May Bil be thy light, may la shout with joy unto thee! 

25. May the gods of the world be favourable to thee! 

26. May the great gods delight thy heart! 

The second incantation commences the Reverse of the 
tablet, and is addressed to a goddess to whom the following 
titles are ascribed: — 

32. Queen of Isagila the palace of the gods, the.mountain! 

33. Lady of Babylon, the Shadow of lands! 

34. Lady of the gods, who loveth to give life, 

35. Who giveth succour in sorrow and distress! 






PRAYERS TO MARDUK AND A GODDESS. 


47 


3 6 - The.one, who holdeth the hands of., 

37. Who supporteth the weak, who poureth out seed, 

38. Who protecteth life, who giveth offspring and seed, 

39. Who bestoweth life, who taketh away sighing, who accept- 

eth prayer, 

40. Who hath made the peoples, the whole of creation! 

41. [Lady?] of the rising and the setting, the mistress of Bill 

1. This prayer is included in the list of incantations K 2832 
-f- K 6680, Col. I, 1 . 11 (cf. supra p. 15). 

3. sal-ba-bu is explained by Brunnow, ZA , IV, p. 242 as 
= “anger”, since in V R, 29, 23 the word is followed by 
ni~~u which occurs again in V R, 21, 43^ apparently as a 
synonym of a-ga-gu (ibid. 1. 40^). This explanation does not suit 
the word in the present passage. But a-ga-gu , besides mean¬ 
ing “to be angry”, also = “to be strong”, while ni--u in the 
text cited by Brunnow stands between the words ti-bu-u “to 
advance, press on” and sal-tum “battle”; sal-ba-bu would there¬ 
fore appear to be an epithet, or possibly a substantive, denot¬ 
ing the attribute of strength. 

9. B omits the latter half of the line, reading without break: 
“O Marduk , mighty lord, at thy weighty command let me live!” 

15. In B, published in IV R 2 , pi. 21*, for ?ia-an-\+% f- 
read na-an- --IT according to the traces on the tablet. 

23. In form a-tal-lu-ka might be II 2 from Hit “to be 
high” with the same meaning as II 1; but the prep. ma-bar-ka 
would then be out of place. I have therefore taken adalluka 
for adallaluka , the prep, merely repeating the suffix of the verb. 

24. li-ris-ka, cf. K 7592 etc. Obv. 1 . 21 (Brunnow, ZA , V, 
p. 77) li-ris-ka Babilu KI . 

26. In B (IV R 2 , pi 21*) for *TTT ^T[Tfi read ^ 
The carelessly written on the tablet. 

41. This passage proves that si-t ■-Ik! is to be read sitas, 
not si-i-TAS (== tan) = sztan, as is suggested by Jensen, Kosmo - 
logie , p. 14, probably on the authority of Delitzsch, AL*, p. 35, 
no, 311. The forms sitas and sitan evidently existed side by 
side. Jensen ( loc. cit.) explains the word as meaning “the cul¬ 
mination-point of the Sun”. 





4 8 


PRAYERS TO GROUPS OF DEITIES. 


No. 10. 

T ransl iteration. 


3. -ri-su-nu lim-nu-tu li-pat-tir mbit Haiti * 1 

ila Marduk . 4- mis-ri-hi-u-a ili-ya li-ti-ba samu-u 

hidiiiu-ka . 5- Haiti * 1 rabiili * 1 . 

-li-sa(r) li-tib-ka . 

6. InIMJnImMA SU IL.LA ^MardukjKAN?] 

7. siptu sur-bu-u git-ma-lu a-b'i-rum tlu Marduk . 

8. . . . . . mus-ti-sir am mztu u am baltu . g. . . . 

. saniz-i u irsitim[(tim ?)] . io. 

. ilu Marduk bilu . 11. 

rafsati pl tit- . 12. -ris a-tu . . . 

...... 13. -tu szk-nat . 

14. 15. [daian ] 1 ilctni pl HI [ ilu Igigi ilu Santas 

Ml si-mat mati . usurati pl at-ta-ma] 16. [sim]-ti si-i-mi 

[a-lak-ti du-um-mi-ik] 17. [lid]-mi-ka [simat pl -u-a li-si-ra i-da- 

tu-u-a] 18. MI MI at-tu-la [ana damiifcti(ti) suk - na 

i-sa-ris lul-lik tap-pi-z .. szc-tu] 19. $a u-mi-ya 

lu-it damikti[(ti) su-id-li-ma-am-ma ka -. .. .] 20. ilu 

ul-si u ri-sa-a-[ti lu- . J 21. ilu $a la salimu li- 

iz-ziz ina [imni-ya llu atalii . lit-tal- . ili-ya 

sal-li . .] 22. ai ip-par-ki rabisu sulmu(mu) [. . . . 

. li-ta-mi-ka ilu BU . J 23. ilu Malik fyir-tu 

na-ram [. .. . llll Samas a-sa-rid ilani pl .. . . .] 

2 4. samu-u kidutu-ka irsitim(tim) li -. 

25. tlu A-nim lIu Bil u tlu I~a li- . 


26. INIM.INIM.MA 


SU IL.LA 


llu Samas.[KA NLJ 


2 7* [siptui] Hu nam-ri(l) si-mu u ka-la-t 


20... -ka . 29. 

Mt-ti-ka . 30. ilu Samas sA(?) ib-ba-nu u nap-ti- 

. 3 1 - pulanu apil pulani . -tu 


1 The bracketed portions of 11. 15 — 23 have been restored from No, 6, 
11. in —127. 














































PRAYERS TO MARDUK AND SAMAS. 


49 


lim-feu-ri . 32.- la i-di-a sd ilu-su 

. 33. ana panu-ka RA ZIB.JBA Ml . 

34. INIMJNIM.MA . A ...... . . . .. . . 77 . . . . 

35. ki-i pi -nm sa .J 

No. 10 (K 5980 K 8746) is, according- to 1 . 35, a copy 
of an older tablet. Unlike the other texts in this volume it is 
written in the Babylonian character, and, though in 11. 6 and 
26 it contains the distinctive colophon-line, in 1. 34 it presents 
a different one to that usually found in this class of texts. It 
contains parts of three incantations, the first being addressed 
to Marduk , the second to Santas , and the third to a god whose 
name has not been preserved. The second of these three in¬ 
cantations is a duplicate of No. 6, 11. 97 ff. and has been partly 
restored from that text; in many places however the tablets are 
too broken to admit of restoration from one another {cf. p. 37). 

7. It is possible that the horizontal wedge which follows 
(cf. plate 21) is merely a slip made in writing the sign 

i n this case read a~pil ilu Marduk. 

17. The phrases in this line appear to have stood in the 
reverse order to that in which they occur in No. 6, for it is 
improbable that li-si-ra i-da-tu-u-a was included in 1. 16, leav¬ 
ing lid-mi-ka sunat* l -u-a as a line by itself. 

18. The traces of the character before suggest the Bab. 

form of in which case the line would read: sunati * 1 at- 

tu-la etc . 

20. This line possibly contained 1 . i2of. of No. 6 in the 
reverse order. 

27. Only one sign is missing from the beginning of 1 . 27. 
In the transliteration I have restored this as IHK regarding the 
line as the beginning of the incantation which is continued on 
the Reverse. If however the line contained directions for cere¬ 
monies, should be restored, giving as the commencement 

of the line the common ceremonial formula ipus an-nam. The 
signs <^M should possibly be read as one character 

31. Possibly for ►’TX read tir-n . 


H 











50 


Section II 

Prayers addressed to Gods. 

This Section, as its title indicates, is composed of tablets 
containing prayers addressed only to one god. They may indeed 
take the form of large tablets, each including several incantations 
interspersed with ceremonies, and resembling in arrangement 
those published under Section I; they differ from these, however, 
in that, instead of being addressed to various gods and god¬ 
desses, the prayers and ceremonies on each tablet are all ad¬ 
dressed to the same god. Nos. 12, 21 and 22 are good examples 
of this class of text. A second subdivision might be made of 
smaller tablets such as Nos. 11, 18 and 19, which contain but 
one prayer in some cases accompanied by a few directions for 
ceremonies. In addition to their difference in size they are 
further distinguished from the former class by being inscribed 
on a somewhat coarser clay. They are moreover written in a 
slightly larger character and a few have the appearance of 
being extracts from the larger tablets made possibly for some 
temporary purpose. 

Some of the Nos. included in this Section are merely 
fragments, of which so little has been preserved that it is im¬ 
possible to say with certainty to what form of text they origin¬ 
ally belonged. It is indeed probable that No. 13 was origin¬ 
ally a large tablet similar to No. 12, and that No. 29 is a 
fragment of one of the smaller extracts, but in many cases 
there is insufficient data for a final classification. As however 
each contains a prayer to one god, and there is no definite 
indication that they included prayers to other deities, they have 



PRAYERS TO MARDUK. 


51 


been classified under the present Section. The tablets contain- 
ing* prayers to the same deity have been placed together; the 
order in which the groups occur, however, has not been dictated 
by the relative importance of the deities addressed, but is that 
which was found most convenient for the arrangement of the 
plates. 


sa 


No. 11. 

Transliteration. 

1 . [siptu] karradu 1 ilu Mardnk 

2. [nap]-sur-su 

3 . [ka]-bu-u u 

4 . [sd]-SU-U 2i 

5 . [am]-ma-tz-ya 6 ina 

6 . [kima] si-bi* 

7 . [bzlu ] 10 rabu-u ilu Marduk 

8 . [a-niz-lu]-tum 12 ma-la 


i-zis-su 2 a-bn-bu 
a-bu ri-mi-nu-u* 
la U-mn-u it-tal-pan-ni* 

la a-pa-lu 5 id-da-sa-an-ni 

lib-bi-ya 7 us-ti-si-[ma] 

uk-ta-ad-di- da-a n -ni^ 
ilu ri-mi-nu-u xx 
su-ma na-bat *3 


9 . [a-na 

10 . [man-nu 

11 . [a-lak-ti 

12 . [lu-ut-ta-id-ma] 

13 . [as-rai ba-la]-ti 

14 . [. . . . . ar-ra]-. . 


raj-ma-ni-sa 1 * 
la 


man-mi 
i-si-it ya]-u la 
ilu [man-nu P] 

[za?]-lip-tu la 


i-lam-mad 
u-kil-lil 
i-lam-mad 
a-ra-as-si 
lu-us-ii- -ma l6 
ildnika-bat 


. . . pu-su ma 

15 . Hu ana amilu ba-ba-lu 

16 . 17 . -ka ana-ku sit-tu-iu lu i-pu-us 18 

17 . -a sa ilu lu i-ti-ik 

18 . mis-sdr-ris mudu u la mudu u mi-lim-ma *9 

19 .- ka ai ik-tar an-ni pu-tur-ma 20 sir-ti pu-sur 

20. 21 [i]-sa-ti-ya nu-um-mz-ir 22 


1 A Siptu bit nu-ru fcar-ra-du. 2 A i-zi-su. 3 A ri-?ni-nu-u-um. & A it- 
tal-pu-nin-nL 5 A a-pa-lum. 6 A am-ma-ti-ya. 7 A ina libbi-ya. 8 A ki-ma 
Si-bi-im. 9 A uk-fa-ad-di-da-ni . 10 A bflum. 11 A ri-mi-nu-u. 12 A a-fni-lu-tu. 

13 A na-bi-at. A [aj-na ra-ma-ni-Sa-ma. 16 A [a]-ra-Sz. 16 A . 

. AffJ-ma. 17 The fragment K 6537, which exhibits a very similar text to 

11 . 16 fir., in the Transliteration is cited as C. 18 C [sit]-tu-tu-um 19 C 

[mudu]-u u Id mudu-u mi-lim-[ma]. 20 C pupur. 21 LI. 20 and 21 form one 
line in C. 22 C nu-um-mir . 













52 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


r j ii 7 jt * ZU—Zlk—kl 

21. [dal]-&a-tz-ya . N 

22m j . ~ n i abi-ya abu abi-ya ummi-ya ummu ummt-ya 

% . -ti-ya ni-su-ii-yci 2 u sa-la-ti-ya 

24. [al-na ra-ma-ni-ya ai itiha-a a-fa-tb-ma lil-hk 

25. ik-ta-ba-an-ni-ma ili kima Sam KAN.KAL ubbib-an-m. 

2b. a-na kM pt damkati pl sa ili-yh 'sal-mu ti-pi-ik-da-ni 

27. ina ik-ri-U tas-li-ti u tl-ml-hi da-ris lu-ziz-ku 

,8 ni-su di-sa-a-tum(?) mati sa ma As-ri Sak-na-At 

29. li-na-du-ka an-ni pu-tur an-ni pu-tur 

30. karradu ilu Marduk an-ni pu-tur an-m pu-Sur 

R ev. . . 

31. biliu rabitum(lum) llu lrua an-m pu-ut-n 

iz.sni-mu ta-a-bu {hi Nabu an-ni pu-tur 

33. biliu rabituni(tum) llu las-mi-tum an-ni pu-ut-ri 

34. Ikarradu iZu Nirgal an-ni pu - tur 

35. ilani pl a-si-bu ilu A-nim an-ni pu-ut-ra 

36. ilu UA.GAL.A sa ul-tu v si-hi-ri-ya i-pu-$u 

37. su-up-pi-ilj-ma adi Vll-SU pu - tur 

38. lib - ba - ka hi - ma a - bi a - lid - ya 

fi nmini a-ht-ti-ya a-na aS-rz-su h-tu-ra 

40. [kdr]-ra-du ilu Marduk dd-lz-lz-ha lud-lul 

41 . INIMJNIM.MA SU IL.LA ilu Marduk.KAN 

42. [AG].AG BI ana pan ilu Marduk SA.NA burdsi tasakan(an) 

43 . (an) SA samni niku mil dispu fyimitu tasakan(an) 

44 . zir Sam mastakal ana libbi Samni tanadi(di) 

4 5 . taSahan(an) miniitu munu - ma Samnu 

tapaSaS(ds) 


46. si - i - ru git - ma - lu H-tar-bu 

47. [ikal m llu Assur-ban-apli] Sarru etc . 

The incantation contained by No. 11 (K 235 -f K 3334 ) 
is addressed to the god Marduk and is mainly concerned with 
petitions for the removal of sin. Though some of the lines 
are broken and portions of the incantation are obscure, the 
line of thought running through the composition is clear. The 


1 L. 22 is expanded into three lines in C , which read: . 

abi-ya .. .. ummi-ya . 

. ahi-ya . a C . -ti-ya 















PRAYERS TO MARDUK. 


53 


suppliant commences with an invocation of the god as “the 
hero Marduk , whose anger is the storm-flood’’, and whose word 
the disobedient and rebellious cannot disregard. In L 5 f. he 
complains that, though Marduk has granted him eloquence, he 
has also afflicted him (“My words in my heart he bringeth 
forth! Like an old man hath he bowed me down!”). Therefore, 
after praising the righteous among mankind and stating his 
own aspirations (“whoever hath learnt the way of god let me 
praise, wickedness I have not possessed; the sanctuaries of life 
let me seek!”), he asks in 11. 19 if. to be purified from his sin 
and delivered into the favourable hands of his god. Then fol¬ 
lows a sort of litany for the removal of his sin, in which he 
successively addresses Irua , Nabii , Tasmitu, Nirgal , Ann etc. 
In the last three lines he returns to the god Marduk , for the 
renewal of whose favour he prays in the following terms: “Let 
thy heart like my father my begetter and the mother who bore 
me return into its place! O hero Marduk , let me bow in 
humility before thee!” 

After the incantation there follow four lines of directions 
for ceremonies intended to accompany its recitation. “Do the 
following. Before Marduk a SA.NA of incense shalt thou set, 

.a SA of oil, a drink-offering, water, honey (and) butter 

shalt thou offer,.the seed of the mastakal- plant in 

the middle of the oil cast,., recite the incantation and 

anoint with oil.” The catch-line commences a prayer to a god 
whom it hails as “the exalted, the perfect, the powerful!” 

1. The duplicate A commences the text with the words 
siptu bit nu-ru “incantation of the house of light”, a title that 
is omitted in the text itself. For other incantations with this 
heading cf. No. 22, 1 . 35, K 2587, Obv. 1. 30 (IV R 60 [67]), 
K 54 (Bezold, Catalogue p. 14 and Vol. II p. XXIII), K. 157, 
1 . 9 (ibid. p. 41), K 2425, 1 . 1 (ibid. p. 442), K 7866, 1 . 1 (ibid. 
p. 880), K 9004, 1 . 10, Rm. 581, 1 . 5, etc. 

i-zis-su (var. z-zi-su) for izzit-su , izzitu being prob. a syn¬ 
onym of uzzu and uzzatu “anger”. 

20 f. These lines have been restored from K 3927, Rev. 1 .3 f. 

27. It is possible that -ku in lu-ziz-ku ='2 s. m. suffix, 
cf. Delitzsch, Grammar , § 56, Addenda . 






54 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


44. The plant INNU.US is rendered in IV R 2 26 1. 36 £ 
by j^TTT ^ i. e. mas-ta-kal (not iTUf -TTt as IV R 1 
and Brunnow, ZiiZ no. 6049). 

46. si-tar-lju by metathesis for sitrafyu. 


No. 12. 

Transliteration. 

1. imtma lumun mursiDI.PAL.A ZI.TAR.RU.DA KA.LU.hLDA 

dubbubu ana atnilu id itifyi 

2. DU.DU.BI ina miisi gusuru arku mil illu tasalalj ana pan 

ilu Marduk GI.GAB tukan(an) 

3. suluppu KU.A. TIR tasapak(ak) SA samni nikit mil dispu hi- 

mitu tasakan(an) 

4. kar ^ atu a’da-gur tukan(an) si-am na-ah-la iasapak SA.NA buraSi 

taSakan(an) 

5. KAS.SAG tanate(ki) ana pan KISDA ari * 1 ant 1 

intMA arthuSID ma-kan-na 

6. tanadi(di) mMtuhussu ina Hi SIR.AD arka KISDA $ am GIS.SAR 

tanadi(di) 

7. {mmiru nikt tanaki &ruZAG s* ru MI.HI u &ruKAJZ 1 tasakan(an) 

8. samnu ina ku napsastu Uu urkarinnu talaki(ki)-ma ana libbi 

Samnu Sii-a-tu 

9. gassu hurasu binu ^amnastakal $ am IL buraSu 

10. wNIM tmasagu KUD.SIR $ am SI.SI ^»SI.MAN ARA(rad) 

11. ana libbi samnu 1 tanadi(di) ina DA.SAR taSakan(an) Sa 

AN.HUL.MIS I Sa ahnu pariitu 

12. I sa- hurasu I sa abnii nknii I sa kukunukku tzpuS(us) ahnu pa - 

rutu abnn hurasu 

13. ahnu iiknit abnu kunukku ina bi-rit AN.HUL.MlS ina GU.GAD 

taSakak(?)(ak) 

14. ina DA. SAR ina kar t aiu bur - zi - gal taSakan (an) KU Sa 

AN.HUL.MIS Sa-Su-nu 

KJ 


1 A 'samnu M-a-fai], 2 A Sd. 



PRAYERS TO MARDUK. 


55 


15. ina samni wsurminu tubbed ina w*napsastu ftwurkarinnu ina 

DAJ.SAR tasakan(an) 

16. kat am%lu marsi subut-ma siptu llu Marduk .Ill 

sanitu munu-su 


17. siptu tlu Marduk bil matati sal-[ba-bu] .- ru-bu 

18. sar-feu id-dis-su-u 1 git-ma-[lu] . -u-um 

19. tiz-ka-ru siru sA ul 2 uttakkaru(ru) . -sar-su 

20. li-*-u same sa 3 uz-nu sil- . -him 

2 i * lu ]}/[arduk* kab-tu su-tu-ru sa sa- . -su 

22. gas-ru b(p)u-un-gu-lu a-[li]- . kabiu 

23. a-bu-ub iwkakku ka-bal la .- iz-zu 

24. ilu DU.KIRRUD.KU git-mal- . ** 

25 . ilu L U GAL.KIRR UD . rabiiti ? 1 

26 . tlu Marduk bilu .. .-ik 

2 7. tlu Marduk bil mu-di-i(?) .. -nin iiufesu 

28. bil sami* l sa-di-i u iamatd 1 fea-i-du feur-sa-a-ni 

29. bil ii~g(k)up-pi u bi-ra-a-ti mus-ti-is-ru nari* l 

30. fea-ai-Ad lhl as-na-au it ilu la-fear (?) ba-nu-u sham u ki-i mu- 

dis-su-u * am urkiiu 

31. ta-ba-an-na sa ilu u llu is-tar ba-nu-u ki-rib . 


-mz(r)-su-?iu at-ta 


32. usumgal llu A-nun-na-ki a-si-ru ilu Igigd l 

33. ir-su bu-kur llu Ia ba-nu-u ti-fnij-sit gim-ri 

34. bilu at-ta-ma kima a-bi u um-mi ina . * l ta-ba-as-si 


35. at-ta-ma kima llu Santas ik-lit-si-[na?] tus-nam-mar 

36. ku-la u ris-sa . -sir-si-na . 

ilu UD.DA,GAN 


37. tus-ti-sir i-ku-tu .*. -turn . -ri-bu 

38. bi-rit uzna du -si-na . 

39. matati u nisirapsatip 1 ] . 

40. ri-mi-na-ta . 


41 .- .-rum an-fea su-nu 

42 . nam-ta-ru . . . 

43 . -bat kat-su sa . . 

44 . u bit si-. . . . 


1 A id-di-hi-ii. 
inserts bilu. 


2 A [tz]-iz~$a-ru si-ru la la. 3 A [li]~ -u rap-lu. 4 A here 


































56 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


45. [ana-he arad]-ka puldnu aptl [pulam Sa ilu-Su pulanu tlu iStar- 

su pulanitum(tum)] 

46. AKA . bata du -Su ib -. 

47. ii-ma-. .... . 

48. ana nis kdti-[ya] . 

49. maruStu . 

50. u-ban-ni kima . 

51. alii di-hu u ta-ni-bu la--bu ta- . 

52. mursu Id tabu ni-sit ma-mit u-Sab- . 

53. suk-lul balat pag-ri-y a la--bu-ma lit-bu sa ku- . 

54. il-ku-u 1 salman* 1 -u-a sii- . 

55. ipir sipi du -ya sab-su man-da-ti-ya li - ka- . 

56. ba-dS-ti tab-la-iu ina ip-si limniti * 1 sa amiluti* 1 * lu-itb-ba-ku 

u lu-u b-bu-ta-ku-[m a] 

57. mi-lat ili u amiluti(ti ) 3 ibasd-a ili-ya BAR.DA Suttu-u-a lim- 

na fya-da-a 

58. iddt pl -u-a tirufirtu-u-a ri-bet-ma ul i-sa-a pur us kit-ti 

59. bi-li ina it-mi an-ni-i iziz-ma si-mi 4 ka-ba-ai di-ni di-in 

purussa-ai purus(us) s 

60. 6 murus SAG NA nu-uk-kir-ma nu-us-si di-bu zumri-ya 

61. 1 ili-ya ilu iStari-[ya?] amilutu dinu-ma abuzu(?)-ni 

62. ina ki-bit pi-i-ka ai itiba-a minima lim-nu it-pis kaS-Sa-pi u 

kaS-Sap-ti % 

63. ai itibu-ni imti imti imti arSaSilimnuti* l Sa amiliitiB xo 

64. ai itiba-a lumun sundti* l iddtiITI.MIS Sa Sami-i u 

irsitim(tim) 

65. lumun ITI ali u mad , ai ikSuda-ni yd-Si 

66 . ina pi limni lisdni limniti Sa amiluti ^ 1 pani-ka ht-uS-lim-ma 11 

67. Sammu AN.HUL Sa ina kisddi-ya Saknu(nu) minima limnu 

ai ii-Sis-ni-ka 

68. arrat limuttimftimj pit Sa la damku ana a-bi-ti li-is-kip 

69. kirn a abnu pariitu nu-ri lim-mir i-dir-tit ai ar-Si 12 

1 A gloss reads il-[]ku-u]. 2 B Sa a- . 3 B ili l l u iltari u 

amiluium(turn). 4 B H-mi. 5 B pu-ru-us. 6 L. 60 is expanded in B and forms 

two lines which read.- ya nu-us-si, and. -us-su di-gu 

la zumri-ya ; C, which reads. -sz\ and. -yd, appar¬ 
ently had the same reading as B. 7 In place of 1 . 61 B reads. 

-ma li-ir-lu-ni lil-ku-nu-ni ri-i-ma, C . -z-ma. 8 B kal-lap-turn, C 

. 'turn. 9 B . -u dr-la-lu-u. 10 BC amilutum(tum) . 

11 C . -ul-lim. 12 C probably read ar-li. 

























PRAYERS TO MARDUK. 


57 


Rev. 

70 . 

71 * 

72 . 

73 . 
74 * 
75* 
76. 

77* 

78. 

79* 

80. 

81. 

82. 
S 3 * 

84. 

85. 

86 . 

87. 

88 . 

89. 

90. 

91. 


ug-gat Hi 
ni-su ma-viit 
Hand 1 raiutH 1 
ki-bi balatu 
sa ib-su-u-in 


kima ahnu uhnii na-pis-ti ina pani-ka ti-kzr h-sak-na ri-i-mu 
kima fyurasu ili-ya u llu istari-ya suhnu(nzu) ttii-ya 

ina pi nisd 1 ana dannkti(ti) lu-uh-si 

kima iwkunukku lu-ni-is-su-u x hmnitzH-ya 

arrat limutti(ti) la tabtum(tum ) 2 ai itilja-a ai usisnika(ka) 
ina pani-ka su-mi & pi-ir-i 3 Iz-sir 

saimnH 14 u nap-sal-tum sa ina pani-ka kun-nu lip-su-su 

lumnu(nu)-u-a s 

ai u-kar-ri-bu-ni 6 uz-zn id 

7 itti sii-tu kil-la-tu fpi-ti-tu lip-su-ru 

ni-is katd zi-kir 

9 ina pi-ka dan-na lu-ba - 

10 kima sami-i lu-lil ina ru-fyi-i 
kima , irsitim(tim) 11 lu-bi-tb tna ru-si-i la tabatd 1 

kima 13 ki-rib sami-i lu-ut-ta-mir lip-ta-at-ti-m ki-sir litnniti* l -ya 
isu bi-nu 14 id HI-an-ni * amDIL.BAD lip-suf-an-ni 15 ^ukuru(r) 

ar-ni-ya 16 lip-iur 

karpaiu q -crp b-b a sa 17 ilu Marduk li-sat-lim-ma 18 damiktu 
li-ib-bi-bu-nin-m 19 SA.NA dipari sa iZu GIS.BAR tZu AZAG~° 
ina ki-bit ilu I-a 21 sar apsi a-bi Hand 1 llu [NIN.SLKU] 
22 a-na nis kaii-ya U-nu-uU libba(ba)-ka ilu Marduk mas-mas 

Hand 1 rabuti[H abkal {lu Igigi] 

a-mat ilu l-a 23 lu-ut-ta- -id £ sar-ra-turn 24 %lu Dam-ki-[na hi- 

us-tz-sir] 

ana-kii arad-ka pulanu apil pulani lu-ub-lui lu-us-[hm-ma] 
lu-us-tam-mar ilu-ut-ka lud-lu-la dd-[U]-H-[ka ] 2 - 


1 C ki-ma ahmt is . u kunukku U-is-su-u. 2 C arrat limuitum(tum) la ia-db- 
tum. 3 C Sumu u pi-ir-. * C for | > * » » > . 5 C ar-ni-ya. 6 C ai u-kar- 

ri-bu-u-ni minima lim-nu . 7 C omits itti and reads Sit-ta feil-lat u hi-ti-iu etc. 

8 C h&ta 9 For 1. 80 C reads ►'III 

i-dil-li-iS U-ba- ki-bi balatu. 10 For 1 . 81 C reads ki-ma Sami-i lu-lil ina ru-Iu-i 
kaS-Sa-pi u kaS-Sap-ti limnutif 1 Sa ib-Su-ni. 11 C ki-ma ir-si-tum. 12 C la ta-bu- 

turn. 13 C ki-ma. 14 C u . u binu (tT 15 C Upiur-an-ni. 

18 C ar-ni-ya. 17 C here inserts ilu l-a u. 18 C li-Sa-at-li-ma. 19 C lib-bibu- 

. 20 C la ^GIS.BAR u **« AZAG.IZV . 21 C ilu Ia Ht)' 

22 C mi kati^-ya li-iun \ li-nu-u £ etc. ™ C U"la (^^f- >-<). 2i C u lar-rat. 
25 C da-U-U-ka lud-luL 

1 




5 » 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


92. ili-ya lu-us-tam-mar kur-di-[ka] 

93. ilK iStari-ya nar-bi-ka , hk-[bi] 

94. {1 ana-ku mas-mas arad-ka da -li-h-kct lud-htd 

95. JnIMJNIMMA SU 1 U.LA _ iht Marduk.KAN 

0 6. KISDA it-tn-bu- . -pat-su BI-u 1 kakkad 

■*' v _ . -t t ✓ r \ 


immiri KI SA NU la 2 uttakkar(?)(dr) 

gj .- bu-ti-Su ianasafa(l)-ina hi ana ill Sammu-ka hA ana 

ili s & 4 is-sub-ba-a 

9 8 . u tanadi(di) gim-ru-u ma-am-ma ina pan 

ilu Mardnk is-pur-an-ni 

99- [ ilu ]i-a u-mad-ir-an-ni III sanitu kibi-ma riksti tapatar(ar) 

100. amUu marsu ana biti-su lisir-ma ana arki-su ul limitr 

101. MJR.DUR sammu AN.HUL.MISsa istu-iu-nu &>» NIKUL.LA 

samUGU.KUL.LA 

102. ARA ina samni ’$ u surminn tubbal ina TL.SAR taSakan(an) 

pusus znmru 

. b . . . . . . —- ' ~ ■’ ~~ 

103. ipus an-nam III sanitu munu u sa AN.HUL.MIS niSi-ma 

104. abni pl su-nu-ti itti sammu AN.HUL.MIS mufyur(?) ana ih 

ffUR ki am kibi 

105. Siptu at~ta ANNUL via-sar Sulmi(mi) sa lln La u %lu Marduk 

106. i-tam-mur kiS-pi ru-fei-i rd-ru-ti 

107. mi-lat ilu u llu istar a-ml-lu-ti^ 

108. 6 . HUR ZLTAR.RU.DA DI.PAL.A KA.LU.BI.DA 

109. u-pis kiS-pi lim- . ~[i]~tu Sa- 

as-ni-ka yd-Si 1 

no. ilu sidu damku llu lamassu damiktu[(tu) ] sukna(na)* 
hi . ilu zi-na-a llu [istar zi-ni-ti(?J] $ a-mi-lu-ta 


112. sul-li-ma-am-ma [ki-niS li-ta]-mu-u 9 itti-y a 

113. ina ma-sar sul-mi . u kal . Int-tuT 0 


114. ina ki-bit ilu Marduk abfyal [ildnP 1 rabiitP 1 ] llu Mardnk 

115. ipus an-nam ana ili Sammu AN.HUL.MIS tak-ta-bu-u 11 


1 D . -u. 2 D la. 3 D lu-u. 4 D la. 5 E u amilutu. 6 L. 108 

forms two lines in E which read:. parts (is) napiUim(tim) |, and 

. KA.LU.BLDA |. 7 E . 4 -tu $a-as-?zi~ka a-na ya- 

a- 3 i. 8 E suk-na. 9 E li-tam-mu-u. 10 For II3 E reads:.J Hitta 

damihta(taJ lu-mur lut-iul. 11 E . -u. 


















PRAYERS TO MARDUK. 


59 


116. ina kisadi-su tasakan(an) ana libbi samni sa ina i* u napsastu 

iwurkarinnu saknu(nu) 

ii 7. siptu iZ'Zi-tu III sanitu munu(nu)-ma ka-ai-an dumum 

1 18. ina u-mi-su-ma kar $ aiu a-gub-ba SA.NA 1 dip aid tus-ba--sii-ma 

119. samu-ii sal-la-tu minima in-su minima lim-nu ul itifpi-su 

120. sum-su ana damikti(ti) tazakar(dr) 

12 1 . inuma amilu kakkadu zumru akil-su karsi-su u-zak-katsu 

122. ikal m tlu Assur~ban~apli etc. 

The text of No. 12 (K 163 + K 218) has been published 
in IV R 1 , pi. 64 and revised in IV R 2 , pi. 57, the Reverse of 
K 2379, which is duplicate of 11. 76—96, being given on p. 11 
of the Additions to the latter volume. It is here republished 
with restorations and variant readings from five duplicates. 2 
The text as given in IV R 1 has been transliterated into Hebrew 
characters by Halevy, Documents religieux , p. 179 ff. and a trans¬ 
lation of 11 . 76—82 is given by Lenormant, La divination , p. 212 f. 
and of 11. 1 — 24, 30 — 35, 61—95, 101 —107 by Sayce, Hibbert 
Lectures , p. 536 ff. (cf. Bezold, Catalogue, p. 42). The tablet is 
concerned entirely with the worship of the god Marduk , the 
object of its petitions and ceremonies being the cure of the 
suppliant who is suffering from sickness. The greater part of 
the tablet is occupied by the prayer or incantation addressed 
to the god, which is, however, preceded and followed by di¬ 
rections for ceremonies. The incantation is to be recited by 
the masmasu or priest who also carries out the ceremonies that 
accompany it, for 1. 16 contains a definite injunction to this 
effect, while in the last line of the prayer (1. 94) the masmasu 
speaks in his own name. The prayer is, however, composed 
from the point of view of the sick man, on whose behalf the 
priest recites it. 

1 SA.NA is apparently omitted by E. 

2 After the plates bad been lithographed the duplicate cited as C was in¬ 
creased by the addition of a fresh fragment, K 3289, Prof. ZiMMERN having last 
summer (1894) recognised it as a duplicate of K. 163, 11 . 73—90. The variant 
readings of C therefore, which are given on pll. 29 f., though correct as for as 
they go , are not exhaustive. In the footnotes to the transliteration of the tablet 
however the fresh variants of C have been incorporated, and in all cases where 
the transliteration would leave the exact reading doubtful the cuneiform has been 
added in brackets. 



6o 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


The first line of the tablet forms a sort of heading or 
introduction, and, while stating the occasion of the prayer, 
contains a general direction to the effect that when the sickness 
has fallen on the man nothing evil or inauspicious is to be 
allowed to approach him. Then follows the first section on 
the tablet, containing 14 11. of directions for ceremonies, which 
commence as follows: — “Perform the following. In the night 
sprinkle a green bough with pure water. Before Marduk the 

.drink-offering shalt thou set. Dates (and).shalt 

thou heap up. A SA of oil, a drink-offering, water, honey 
(and) butter shalt thou offer; thou shalt set there an incense- 

burner, corn.shalt thou heap up; a SA.JVA of incense 

shalt thou offer. The.-drink shalt thou pour out.” 

The rites in the next line and a half are obscure; at 1 . 7 offer¬ 
ings of flesh are prescribed, three preparations of flesh being 
specified. In 1 . 8 the command is given to take the oil of 
certain woods, and the next two lines contain a list of sub¬ 
stances that are to be cast into the oil, including gold, frag¬ 
ments of various kinds of wood and plants, and incense. In 
ILi iff. certain offerings are specified in honour of tine AN.HUL.MIS, 
the offerings consisting of one piece of alabaster, one piece of 
gold, one piece of lapis-lazuli and one seal. In the principal 
prayer of the tablet reference is made to each of these four 
offerings (cf. 11. 69—73), and, as the prayer is addressed through¬ 
out to Marduk, it is obvious that AN.IdUL.MlS is merely a 
title of the god Marduk , x The ceremonies conclude with an 
injunction to the officiating priest to hold the hand of the sick 
man and recite the incantation. This incantation, which occupies 
11.17 — 94, reads as follows. . 

Translation. 

17. O Marduk , lord of lands, the mighty. 

18. Powerful, unique, perfect. 

19. The exalted hero, who suffers no change. 

20. The strong one, the king who. 

21. O Marduk the illustrious, the great one who. 

1 The gronp is prob. a compound ideogram and is not to be transliterated 
tlti the rendering <f the god of joys” is therefore tentative. 











PRAYERS TO MARDUK. 


6l 


22. The mighty.the illustrations! 

23. The storm of the weapon, the battle. 

24. O.! the perfect.! 25.the 

great.! 26. Marduk , the lord.27. 0 Mar- 

duk , the lord. 

28. Lord of the heavens, of mountains and of oceans, who . . 

. . . the hills! 

29. Lord of.and fortresses, whe guideth the rivers! 

30. Who bestoweth corn and grain (?), who createth wheat and 

barley, who reneweth the green herb! 

31. Who createth the handiwork of god and goddess; in the 

midst of their.art thou! 

32. The ruler of the Anunnaki , the director of the Tgigil 

33. The wise, the first-born of la , the creator of the whole of 

mankind! 

34. Thou art lord, and like my father and my mother among 

the.art thou! 

35. Thou art like the Sun-god also: their darkness thou dost 

lighten! 

36. A cry and a shout of joy. 37. Thou guidest him 

that is in need. 38. Their wisdom. 

39. Lands and distant peoples. 

40. Thou art compassionate.41.I am weak. 

42. 43. Thou boldest his hand.44. 

At 1 . 45 the suppliant makes a formal statement of his 
own name along with that of his father, after which the tablet 
continues broken for several lines, only disconnected words 
having been preserved. When the lines once more become 
connected we find the suppliant imploring that the life of his 
body may be restored, the disease from which he is suffering 
being put down to the influence of magic. He concludes a 
description of his symptoms with the words: “My powers and 
my soul are bewitched and there is no righteous decision!” He 
therefore makes a direct appeal to the god in the following 
words: — 

59. O lord, at this time stand beside me and hearken to my 

cries, give my judgment, make my decision! 

60. The sickness ..... do thou destroy, and take thou away 

the disease of my body! 























62 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


61. 0 my god (and) goddess, judge ye mankind, and possess me! 

62. By the command of thy mouth may there never approach 
anything evil, the magic of the sorcerer and of the sorceress! 

63. May there never approach me the poisons of the evil . . 

... of men! 

64. May there never approach the evil of dreams, of powers 

(and) portents of heaven and of earth! 

65. Never may the evil of the portent of city and land over¬ 

take me! 

66. In spite of the evil mouth, the evil tongue of men in thy 

sight let me be perfect! 

67. Let nothing evil ever restrain the plant of the god of joy 

that is placed upon my neck! 

68. The evil curse, the mouth that is unfavourable let it cast 

aside! 

69. Like alabaster let my light shine, let me never have affliction! 

Rev. 

70. Like lapis-lazuli may my life be precious in the sight, let 

it establish mercy! 

71. Like gold, 0 my god and my goddess, may prosperity be 

with me! 

72. In the mouth of the peoples may I be blessed! 

73. Like a seal may my sins be torn away! 

74. May the evil curse, that is unfavourable, never draw nigh, 

may it never be oppressive! 

75. Before thee may my name and posterity prosper! 

76. May the plants and.that are set before thee loosen 

my sin! 

77. Never may there approach me the wrath or anger of the god, 

78. With misery, disgrace (and) sin; from the curse 

79. May the raising of my hand, the invocation of the great 

gods, give release! 

80. At thy mighty command let me approach! Command thou life! 

81. Like heaven may I shine among the enchantments that 

possess me! 

82. Like the earth may I be bright in the midst of spells that 

are not good! 

83. Like the heart of heaven may I be bright; may the power 

of my sins be destroyed! 




PRAYERS TO MARDUK. 


63 


84. May the binu-wood. purify me, may the.-plant deliver 

me, may the ukuru -wood remove my sin! 

85. May Mardnh ?s vessel of purification bestow favour! 

86. May the flaming; censer ( ?) of the god.make me 

bright! 

87. At the command of la , king of the Abyss, father of the 

gods, the Lord of wisdom, 

88. At the raising of my hand may thy heart have rest, 0 
Marduk, the priest of the great gods, the arbiter of the Igigi\ 

89. The word of la let me glorify, and, O queen Damkina , let 

me have dominion! 

90. May I thy servant so and so, the son of so and so, live, 

let me be perfect, 

91. Let me revere thy divinity, and let me bow in humility 

before thee! 

92. O my god, let me revere thy power! 

93. O my goddess, let me tell of thy greatness! 

94. And may I the priest, thy servant, bow in humility be¬ 

fore thee! 

On the conclusion of the prayer there follow three short 
sections of ceremonies, an incantation of ten lines, and a final 
section of ceremonial directions. After the first of these sections 
the sick man himself ceases to take part in the ritual, for the 
section concludes with the injunction that he shall go straight 
to his house without looking behind him. The remainder of 
the tablet deals with the due disposal of some of the offerings 
and objects, that have been used in the ceremonies at the com¬ 
mencement of the Obverse and in the course of the incantation. 

LI. 101 — 104 form two sections of two lines each which 
contain directions concerning the stones and the plant of “the 
god of joy” mentioned in 11 . 11 ff., 66 ff. Then follows a short 
incantation addressed to “the god of joy” himself, in which he 
is besought to make the sidii and lamassu propitious and restore 
by his command the favour of the angry god and goddess. 
The last section on the tablet contains directions concerning 
the plant of “the god of joy”, the recital of the incantation and 
the offering of a vessel of purification and a censer. L. 121 
gives the catch-line for the next tablet which probably contained 





64 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


similar prayers and ceremonies to be recited and performed 
for the relief of some other form of sickness. 

i. In K 2513, a tablet containing directions for ceremonies, 
the first section of Col. IV commences: inuma amilu himun 
mursi ZI. 7 AR.RU.DA DI.PAL.A \ KA.LU.BIDA ii-pi-su lim- 
nitiA (cf. Bezold , Catalogue , p. 449 ) > while the second section 
contains ceremonies for a similar occasion; it is therefore pro¬ 
bable that the ceremonies attached to the incantation in No. 12 
form an extract from some larger work devoted entirely to 
ceremonial observances. The disease itself, with which the 
tablet deals, would appear to be of the nature of possession 
or bewitchment, cf. K 2572, 1 1.8 inuma a-na amiluZI. TAR.RU.DA 
id a *NIN.K 2 LITIi-pu-us-su, and 1 .13 f. amilu id Zl.TAR.RU.DA 
ip-su-su | ana pan kakkab MAR.BU.DA likmisu(su), and the some¬ 
what similar texts K 3278, 11 . 1 ff., 8 ff., and K 6172, 11 . 1 ff., 11 
(cf. op. cit. pp. 519 and 768); see also K 9612 -j- K 10760, 
11. 10 ff., etc. 

3. For a discussion of the KU.A.TIR cf. supra p. 22 f. 

4f. For SA.NA burdii and KAS.SAG lanaki(ki) cf. supra 
p. 20 f. 

5. That = aru (Brunnow, List, no. 5570) = the flower 
(of a palm) cf. Jensen, ZK II, p. 26. The tablet clearly reads 

not Itj as in IV R», nor as in IV R 2 . The fcj 

is possibly to be identified with the plant tam which 

occurs in Sm. 8, Col. I, 1 . i4f., where it is rendered by &a-a$- 
Jiii-ra-kii, and Jja-as-fau-ur {cf. Brunnow, List, no. 4x93). 

6. According to Brunnow, List , no. 8613 ruSSu is also a 
possible rendering of the group KU.HUS.A. 

7. The three forms of flesh here enumerated may represent 
the flesh of three different beasts, or flesh in general prepared 
in three different ways. The KA.IZI was poss. so named 
from its appearance, KA.IZI being = fyamatu , sa iSati {cf. 
Brunnow, List , no. 651). 

1 For the text of this tablet cf. BoissiER, Documents assyrzens , Paris, 1894, 
p. 42. For trnt at the beginning of 1. 6 read, according to the tablet, 

2. e. ma mull iu-a-tum etc. 




PRAYERS TO MARDUK. 


65 


8. HRF-^T is to be here taken as — sanmu (cf. Latrille, 
ZK II, p. 356 f.). In ritual texts samnu “oil” is rendered by 

HRF-£-T j E tT*=T and ►fp almost indiscriminately. No clear 
distinction in their use can be observed, though perhaps £pfl 

is more often used for “oil” in general, tSpftz] or £3pp=f when 
the oil of some particular tree is specified. 

That should be read, not m as IV R 2 , cf. 1.116. 

9. That is a material used in building is clear 

from the East India House inscription , Col. II, 1 . 45 (cf. Schrader's 
Keihns. Bib/., Bd. Ill, Hft. II, p. 14 and Delitzsch, Worterbuch , 
p. 110, note 1). The ideogram is transliterated in the text as gassn , 
in accordance with a communication from Dr. Bezold, who has 
come across the group in K 4864, 1. 16 f. rendered by 

and who compares the Arabic ya*. Cf. also Brunnow, List, 
no. 8470. 

*0. tT <~T cannot here = sitas, but is prob. the name 
of a plant or tree, being the determinative; cf. the plant 

^TIT^ which occurs in Sm. 8, Col. II, 1 . 5 and possibly 

in K 4354, Col. II, 1 . 12 (II R, pi. 43, no. 2), etc. 

11 ff. The sign V in the phrases | V abnu pariitu , TV 
Jj.11ra.su, etc. is to be taken as the relative, not as a numeral, 

the duplicate A giving the variant reading T ^TT <?«■ In 
11. 12 and 73 ktmnkku is written with the determinative in 

1. 13 with while in 1. 73 the duplicate C writes the word 

with both determinatives. 

16. The end of this line should probably be restored siptu 
llu Mardnk [bit matati] III sanitu munu-su from 1. 17, the incan¬ 
tation being cited by the words with which it commences. In 
this common rubric the suffix is not generally appended to the 

verb munu , so that it is possible the second ^ is merely an 

error, through ditography on the part of the scribe, for 
the phonetic complement that is commonly found with' the 

ideogram m 

For sarru sa of the text A gives the variant 

K 


20 . 



66 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


reading* I rap-su, which has probably arisen from the 

misreading of a badly written 

27. The characters in this line are rubbed; if 

the reading of IV R 1 and 2 be adopted, the phrase should 

be translitarated mudakbidi(di) nufysu (i. e. “who 

giveth great abundance”. 

30. should be read with IV R 1 , not -nii-tt 

as in IV R 2 . 

32. The title usumgallu in this passage is clearly not used 
in the sense cf “dragon”. The parallelism of a-si-ru in the 
second half of the line suggests some general term implying 
authority. 

50. The first sign in this line should probably be read 
as in IV R 2 , although sTTT is . all that is at present 

visible. 

52. The signs Spp Je|> which occur frequently in a form¬ 
ula on the 6 th tablet of the surpu- series ( cf IV R, pi. 7, Col. II, 
11. 2, 12, 22, 32, 42, 52; pi. 8, Col. Ill, 11 . 3, 16), are explained 
by Jensen (ZK II, p. 20) as a verb (i. e. nisu III 1) with the 
3 m. s. suffix, and as instances of the occurrence of the phrase 

he quotes the present passage and tpC JT in 1. 79 ( see 

below). It is more probable that the signs fiy.. should be 
transliterated phonetically ni-su , a word that is not, however, 
to be identified with the nisu “spirit(?)”, which occurs in the 

phrase ma-mit nis (= -TT*) sami-i . • . nis irsitim(tim) (ibid. 
Col. I, 1 . 50; see also Brunnow, List no. 2326). In the passages 
cited above, as in the present line, ni-su is followed, not pre¬ 
ceded, by ma-mit, and is to be regarded as I 1, Inf. from natu, 
the two words being probably taken together in the sense of an 
“oath” or “curse” (lit. “the raising of an oath or curse”). ni-Su, 
however, sometimes occurs by itself {cf. No. I, 1 . 48: li-in-ni-is-si 
ma-mit li-td-kil ni-[su (?)], etc.) so that in the phrase ni-Su ma- 
mit the two words are perhaps to be taken as separate syno¬ 
nymous phrases in apposition. 

67. ^ i. e. $akinu(nu) is to be read for of IV R. 



PRAYERS TO MARDUK. 


6 7 


71 f. It is possible that these two lines should be taken 
together without a break. 

73. The application of the metaphor in this line is not at 
first sight apparent. The kunukku may, however, refer to the 
seal-impression, and as seal-impressions have been found. on 
small clay cones, which were originally attached to the docu¬ 
ments they attested by means of a strip of reed {cf Budge, 
ZA III, p. 214), it is probable that the tearing off or removal of 
such a seal-impression is the basis of the metaphor in the text. 

77 ff. The division of 11 . 77—79, as given in the translation 
is based on the duplicate C, which reads as follows: — 

Rev. 5, Never may there approach me any thing evil, neither the 
wrath nor anger of the god, misery, disgrace and sin! 

6. From the curse may the raising of my two hands, the 
invocation of the great gods, give release! 

Here the general phrase mimma limnu is introduced and 
defined by the substantives that follow. TTJf has been 

explained by Jensen (ZK II, p. 20) as = M = lusisisu 
or lisisisu ( cf\ supi'a sub 1 . 52). The reading of C, however, 
proves that the phrase is to be transliterated ni-is kati , in ap¬ 
position to zi-kir ilani$ l rabuti$ l . 

98. is written over an erasure; the scribe had probably 
begun to write <1- omitting but corrected his mistake. 

99. On the rendering of by riksu tapa - 

tar (dr) cf. supra p. 22 and infra sub No. 16, 1. 11. 


No. 13. 

Transliteration. 

1. 2. lit -. 3. sa-kd-a z-. 

.4. a-lik tap-pu-ti la li-- .5. ana-ku pit- 

lanu apil pulani sa ilu-su puldnu [ tlu istar-su puldnitum(tum)] 

6 . azzaz(az) ina pan ilu-ti-ka rabiti(ti) . 7. ina 

bikit nisi* l sa la ma- .8. mimma sumsu ka-ba-a 

u ma~ga~[ra] .9. lul-lik ruk-ka (?) a-mi-ri . . . . 









68 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


. i o. hi ias-lim ina sil-li-ka ni-mt-ki . 

11. ina pi~ka sa la na-kar h- . 

12. INIMJN 1 M.MA SU IL ~[LA ~ ^mrdnLKAN] 

13. DU,DU BT ana pan ilu Marduk . 

14. [SAJ.NA burasi tasakan(an) nis kdti . 

15. [sipiu] bt-lum ilu Marduk mu-di-i . 

16 . -la-at nisia-pa-[a-ti] . 

17 .. . -ba Sit-ka- . 


18. sap balatu is-sak-na . 

ig. sd is-sak-nam-[ma] .20. [sdr] 

a-na ya-si kzma sami-i cina-hi a-na sa-a-sic . 

21. [ ilu ]sidn damku u-sz-is-sa .22. u-sab-bit sap - 

tz-ya lib-bi u- . 23. u-ka-as-si a-^i-ya . 

.... 24. bir-ki-ya u-mal-li tabli- .25. gdm-ma- 

ai mati-ya . 26. su-mi u-Sat-bi ina itmi 

[an-ni-i(r)] . 27. bi-li ak-ri-dak-ka si-mi . . . 

. 28. sur-si di-ni purus . 29. bi- 

il-la-an-ni .. 30. ki-i la in -.. 

31. ilu Marduk . 3 2 * ina pi-i- .- 

33. mah- . 


No. 13 (K 322g) forms the bottom left corner of a large 
tablet similar to No. 12. The Obverse contains the conclusion 
of a prayer to Marduk , in which, after giving his own names 
and those of his god and goddess in the usual formula, the 
suppliant states that he stands before the god whom he ad¬ 
jures by the tears of the people; he prays that he may enjoy 
the god’s favour, remaining in his deep shadow (i. e. protection) 
through his mighty command that does not change. This 
prayer is followed by two lines of directions for ceremonies, 
and at 1. 15 a fresh prayer commences, which is continued on 
the Reverse of the tablet. The second prayer begins with an 
invocation of Marduk , who at 1. 20 is described as “like the 
heavens’’ in his relation to the suppliant. In 1 . 21 the Hdu or 
divine colossus is addressed, probably as the minister who 
carries out the will of the greater god; at 1. 27 the suppliant 
turns once more to Marduk, petitioning him for judgment. As 






























PRAYERS TO MARDUK. 69 

both hymns are addressed to Marduk, it may be inferred that 
the tablet was somewhat similar in its arrangement to No. 12 f 
and that it contained prayers and ceremonies in honour of 
this god only. 


No. 14. 

Transliteration. 

1 . ili-ya 2 . -lim-man-ni 3. . . . 

. tas-h-ti 4. gi-mil napisti(ti) 5. . . . 

.- turn ina kati-ya li-kin 6. Jii-ti-ti 


7 . si-lim itti-ya 8. ISAG.ILA 

9. bihi-iit-ka 10. pa-nu-uk-ka li-sa-lik(l) 


it. [IN 1 M.INIM.MA 

S[f IL.LA Uu ]Marduk.KAN 

12 . 

pul Marduk fn /rti(n ) 


■ • L J lA-hi/fv bli otOfCCC fl/j 

.- lit - su magrat(ai) 


*4 .15. kar-du 16 


. ra - sub - bu 17. ul ib-si 18. 

. ft-su 

No. 14 (K 2793) is a fragment of a large tablet and pre¬ 
serves the ends of a few lines only. It contains the conclusion 
of a prayer to Marduk ( 11 . 1 —10), followed by two lines of 
directions for ceremonies and the commencement of a second 
prayer or incantation. 

10. The last 3 characters in the line (/i-sa-lik = listalikP) 
may poss. be read li-ir-ur. 


No. 15. 

Transliteration. 


1 


6 


. - y a 

-ku 4. 


arki-ya 9, 


2.- turn 

.... dr-si 5. 

. ki-i-nu 

lima tin ai a-mur 


3 


dr-si 


8 . 

10, 


-ink 7 

































70 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


. y&-si II .12. 

-sut-kd 13. -mu si-mat-ka 14 . 

•bu-ka 15. i Jia su-bat ta-ni-i&-ti-ya 16. 

. damikti(ii)-ya lik-bi-ka 

^ 77 ~INIM.INIM.MA SU IL.LA] ilu MardubKAN 

18. mil a-gub-ba tukan(an) 19. 

GI GAB tukan(an) 20. [KUAJ.TIR tcisapak(ak) 

21 . -bu-ku 22 . tukan(an) 23. . . 

.. . siptu III sanitu mmiu(nu) 


24. [burasi] tasaka?i(an) 25. -as 

26 .- ku-nu 27. tanaki(ki) 

28. 


Like the preceding fragment, No. 15 (K 2586 + K 7185) 
preserves a portion of the right side of what was originally a 
large tablet. The conclusion of a prayer to Marduk , a section 
of six lines giving directions for ceremonies, and the beginning of 
a second ceremonial section represent its present contents. 


No. 16. 

Transliteration. 


Obv. 
I. . 


.2. Sip at- .3. 

. si-pir -. 4.- nam~ru 5. 

,-tu 6. 


Rev. 

7. [lu] - & - Sa - pi . 8. . * . . . 

. -ka L SA GJLA 9 . si-lim lik-bi-ka 

10. [INIMJNIM.MA SU IL].LA ilu Marduk.KAN 

11. [DU.DU BI lu ina KISDA lu ina SAJ.NA ipuS(uS) 

12. Sami u irsiti 

13. [ikal m llu Assiir-b an-aplij etc. 


Of the Obverse of No. 16 (K 11681) a few characters only 
have been preserved, while the Reverse contains the conclud- 

































PRAYERS TO MARDUK. 


71 


ing phrases of a prayer to Marduk , the last one on the tablet. 
The colophon-line that gives the title of the prayer ( 1 . 10) is 
here accompanied by a rubric or direction contained in a single 
line (1. 11), which occurs frequently in the present class of texts. 
For other instances of its occurrence, cf. No. 18, 1. 19; No. 21, 
1. 92; No. 22, 1. 69; No. 28, 1 . 6; No. 34, 1 . 6 ; No. 38, 1 . 4; 
No. 39, 1 . 5; No. 41, 1 . 2; No. 46, 1 . 10; No. 47, 1 . 7. It will be 
seen that the line is never found by itself, but, when it 
occurs, always follows the colophon-line IN 1 MJNIM.MA SU 
TL.LA etc. It commences with the phrase DU.DUBI i. e. ipus 
annam , “do the following'', which generally precedes any di¬ 
rections for ceremonies or ritual (cf. supra p. 19). The direction 
itself consists of the words lu ina KISDA lit ina SA.NA ipus , 
a set formula that rarely varies. 1 No substantive is mentioned 
for the imperative ipus to govern; hence it may be inferred 
that the object of the verb is to be supplied from the previous 
line, i. e. that the rubric refers to the manner in which the pre¬ 
ceding prayer or incantation is to be recited. Two methods 
of recitation are in fact given as alternatives, the line reading: 
“Perform (the incantation) either ina KISDA or ina SA.NA. 

In the course of a prayer to Ninib contained by No. 2, 
1. 27 reads: ar-kus-ka rik-sa KUA.TIR as-ruk-ka , “I have bound 
for thee a cord, the KU.A.TIR have I ofFered thee!" (cf. supra 
p. 17). The KUA.TIR is of common occurrence among the 
offerings that are prescribed in the ceremonial directions that 
accompany the present class of incantations (cf. supra p. 22 f.). 
It would not therefore be surprising if the riksu mentioned in 
the first half of the line should also be found in the directions 
for ceremonies. It was suggested above (p. 58) that in 1 . 99 

of No. 12 the phrase should be transliterated 

riksu tapatar(ar), “the knot thou shalt loosen", and it is not 

improbable that in the phrase ina in the rubric under 

discussion we may see a further reference to the rite of the 
knotted cord (riksu). The second ideogram SANA has been 
already discussed on p. i9f., where the suggestion was made 
that the word denoted a vessel for containing incense. The 


1 See below, sub No. 42, 1 . 25, and No. 52, 1 . 4. 



72 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


rubric therefore is to the effect that the incantation must be 
accompanied either with the rite of the knotted cord, or with 
the offering of incense. 


No. 17 . 

Transliteration. 


j.. 2.. baldtu . 

3. ri-sa-a-ti u GUR.UD .4. . . . 

. ka-a-sa pci-li-fei-ka lu -. 

5. [ 1 NIMJN 1 M.MA SU] IL.LA ilu [Marduk(?),KAN] 

6 .- mi asar(?) Sipd du TAR(at) . 

7 . -za tanadi(di) ina ill .8. . . . 

....... ina Hi sa .9. 

The fragment No. 17 (K 5668) contains a few words of 
a prayer followed by some directions for ceremonies. The 
name of the god to whom the prayer is addressed, though 
broken, is in all probability Marduk\ hence the fragment is 
included under the prayers addressed to that god. 


No. 18. 

Transliteration. 

1. 

2. i - na - ta - lu pa - nu - uk - [ka] 1 

3. a-na gi-bis ta-ma-a-ti pa-nu-ka ma-a- . 

4. sa - ka - ta ina sa - ma - mi 

5. kul - lat nisH 1 ta - bar - ri 

6. snr - ba - ta - ma ina irsitim(tim) 

7. tirutirtH 1 - su - nu [ta - bar - ri 2 

8. sa fyi - tu ih - tu - it ta - ga - mil - su at - ta 

9. sab - ta - ku - ma ki - i ti - i - ri 

10. in a 3 ka - an - ni - ka 


1 LI. I and 2 probably formed one line in A , which gives traces of two 

preceding lines, of which the second reads:. a For 1 . 7 

A reads: liri$ l -Su-nu ta~na-[tal]. 3 A i-na. 



















PRAYERS TO MARDUK. 


73 


11. ki - t izakara(ra) - ni llu Marduk 

12. a - la - su - - ki - /]&z7 


Rev. 


13. na - sa - ku 7 iindabu 

14. pu - fur marusti 1 

15. sarn - £<2 tabu 

16. napistim (tim ) 4 

17. la-ta-am nar-bi-ka 


a - 

sa - 

rak . . 


li - 

ki 

un - ni 

- [ni - yb] 2 

li - 

zi - 

■ ka - 

am - [ma ] 3 

li 

- 

ri 

ik 

and 

s 

nisi$ l 

rapsati 


18. INIMJNIM.MA _ j 77 ^ MarduLGI 6 

19. 1 DU.DU BI lu ina KISDA lu ina SA.NA ifius{tis) 


20. siptu 


ga-as-i'u su-pu-u i-dil %lu lgigi 


No. 18 (K 8009) is the lower portion of a comparatively 
small tablet, of which about one third has been preserved. It 
probably contained only one prayer, the end of which is re¬ 
presented by 11 . 1 —17. L. 20 gives the catch-line to the next 
tablet, while 1. 21 evidently marks the commencement of a 
colophon. The prayer is carefully written and several of the 
longer lines have been split up into two halves, each of which 
occupies one line of the tablet {cf. 11. 1 £, 4 f., 6 f., 9 f., 11 f., 
15 f.), 11. 3—8, for instance, reading: — 

Unto the ocean-flood thy face is.! 

Thou art exalted in heaven: 

All nations thou dost behold! 

Thou art mighty upon earth: 

Their spirits thou dost behold! 

The man that hath sinned thou requitest! 

This metrical arrangement of the lines is not to be found, 
however, in the duplicates A and B. On the Reverse of the 
tablet the suppliant states that he has offered a present and 
poured out a libation, and he therefore prays for the removal 
of his sorrow and sighing and for length of days, concluding 


1 B marulti-ya. ~ A [un~ni]-ni-yci. 3 A [li]-zi-fcam-ma. 4 B [napil 
5 A [a]-na. 6 ilu Mardnk.KAN» 7 After 1 . 18 A ceases to be a duplicate giving 

three lines of directions for ceremonies, which read:. [ana j>an 

AujAIarduk SA.NA burali | , taSakanfanJ |.Ill $a- 

nitu mumi(nu) [. 

L 







74 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


with the desire that he may declare the greatness of the god 
unto distant peoples. 

ioff. Between 11 . 8 and g of A an insertion or a gloss 

is written in smaller characters of which only IX has been pre- 
served, the tablet reading: — 

> H L tw- 

^TT gCTTT M <M 

ig. The duplicate A in place of 1 . 19 gives a ceremonial 
section of three lines prescribing the offering of incense and 
the repetition of the incantation three times. 

20. This catch-line which gives the first line of the next 
tablet is to be found in the list of incantations, K 2832 + K 6680, 
col. I, 1. 7 (see above p. 15). 



No. 19. 

Transliteration. 


1 


3. ilu ma -. 

4. bilu bilu bilu .. * * * * 

5. a - bu . rabutd 1 

6. bil simdtd 1 . U u usurati* l 

7. mu - ma - 5 - ir sami - i u irsiti(ti) bil matdti 

8. [ga] - mir di - ni sa id inu - u ki - bit - su 

q. [mu] - sim simati . kala(P)ma 

10. [ina] lutnun llu atali tlu Sin sa ina ar[i umi iSakna(na) 

11. [Inmun] iddtd 1 ITLMIS limnitd 1 Id tab aid 1 

12. [sa] ina ikalli - yd u mdti - yd ibaSa - a 

13. [ina ki] - bi - ka - ma u - tal - la - da ti - ni - si - i ~ ti 

14. [a-naP] sarru sagganakku su-mi-su-nu ta-sa-kar 

15. as-sum ba-ni~i ilu u Sarru 

16. ba - sic - u itti - ka 










PRAYER TO BlL. 


75 


17 . il Mill iamJU SamRIQ SamGA dan - ni 

18 . ina ma - ’ - du - ti kakkab sa - ma - mi 

19 . bi - li ad - dan - ka 

20 . -rat-ti-ka ip-Sa-ku uzna du -ai 

Rev. 

21 . Sim - ti ba - la - ti - ya si - im 

22 . ba - ni - i sic - mi - ya ki - bi 


23. mi - ni - ta PAL - ma dumku sur - ka 

24. su - kun - 7/z# Hi - ya ba - ds ~ ta - ka rabztu(tn) 


25. [Hu] u sarru li - sa - ki - - 2/2 - ni 

2 6. 22 mbit k&r - bu - ni - /z" - pu - i?/ 

27.- n li - ba - sa - an - ni 

28. ina pufari lu si - mfct ki - 3z balatu 

29. llu sidu likbi magdra u magara 

30. zz - mi - lit - tal - lak itti - jy# 

31. /ztzzz7 ki - hit - ka sir - ti sa ul uttakkam(ru) 

32. fe an - zzz - ka ki - nim sa ill inu - it 


33. IN 1 M.INIM.MA SU IL.LA ilu BiLKAN 

34. siptu ru - ba - tu rabitu(tu) i - - 7/222 - a Hi 

As is the case in the preceding tablet, some of the longer 
lines in No. 19 (K 34) are divided into halves, which together 
occupy two lines on the tablet {cf. 11. 4 f., 15 f., 18 f., 29 £.). 
No. 19 contains only one prayer and this is addressed to the 
god Bil and was intended for use after an eclipse of the moon 
(cf. 11. 10 ff.). The beginning of the prayer, with which the Ob¬ 
verse commenced, has been broken off; it probably contained, 
however, an invocation of the god, of which the conclusion, 
describing his power as ruler and creator, has been preserved. 

4. O Lord I O Lord! O Lord!. 

5. Father of the great [gods?]! 

6. The lord of destinies, the [god?] of charms! 

7. The ruler of heaven and earth, the lord of lands! 

8. Perfect in judgment, whose word is not altered! 

9. Director of destinies. 

10. In the evil of the eclipse of the moon which in the 

month on the day (#"") has taken place, 

11. In the evil of the powers, of the portents, evil and not good, 







7 6 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


12. Which are in my palace and my land! 

13. At thy command created was mankind! 

14. Unto king and noble their names thou didst name! 

15. Since to create god and king 

16. Rests with thee! 

In 11 . 17 ff. the suppliant states he has made an offering 
to the god consisting apparently of three plants, and he there¬ 
fore seeks the god’s protection for himself and for his posterity 
(“The destiny of my life decree! The making of my name do 
thou command!”). The prayer concludes with the desire that 
the god will confer blessings through his attendant minister, 
the sidu, 

29. May the sidu command fhvour upon favour, 

30. Daily may he go with me, 

31. Through thy exalted command which is not altered, 

32. And thy sure mercy which changeth not! 


No. 20. 

Transliteration. 


Qbv. 

I. 


.- ka . 2. 

3. 4.- tim 

5 .- ris-ka . -da H- 

6 . MIN.NAD AG ALMA SUR 


7. [TN 1 MJ.INIM.MA 


SU IL.LA 


8. [siptu] sur - bit - u git - ma - lu 

9. [u]~7nu la a-ni-fyu mut-tab-bil 


Rev. 

10. tlu Ramma?m sur-bu-u git-rna-lu 

11. u-mii la a-ni-fyu mut-tab-bil 

1 2. sa - kin u - ml - 1 

13. [mu] - sab - rik birku AN.ZA . . 

14. [kas] - ha - sit git - ma - lu 

15. [la?] pa-du-ii a-sa-[rid?] 

J6, [ tZu ]Rammanu has-ka-su git-ma-[lu] 

17. [la:] pa-du~u a-[sa-rid?] 

























18. 
19 
20, 


PRAYERS TO RAMMAN. 


77 


“ ik - dll . 

- ni - hit la - 5 -. 

- -. 2r. 

The Obverse of No. 20 (K 10406) contains the end of one 
prayer and the beginning of another. The name of the god 
to whom the first is addressed has not been preserved, but the 
second, which is continued on the Reverse of the tablet, is 
addressed to Ram man and is somewhat similar to the commence¬ 
ment of the prayer to the same god in No. 21, 11 . 34 ff. In 

11 . 12 ff. the god is described as “the establisher of days.. 

who causeth the lightning to shine.. the strong one, 

the perfect., the unconquerable, the prince.1” 


No. 21. 

Transliteration. 

Obv. 

[1.] 1 .[2.]. i-tar-ra - ......... 

1. hi- .- ru-su u-nam-ma -. . 2, ga- 

. sa 21I inu-u .3. tik- .- tim 

mu-sa-as- . 4. pa-. .. mu-dis-su-[u] . . . 

. 5. sa . afyi$ l -su sur .. 

6. na -. -ti sa ina sami-i .7 . sa . . . 

. -ti-ya nir-bi ana nap -.. 8. 

. . . sa i-mu-ku .9. mu- . -nu il-mu 

la [a-ni-^u?] .10. al- . ina ki-rib sami-i 

. 11. ana-ku . [ana ma]-Jiar-ka 

az-ziz a-si--ka sa- . 12. llu . si-mat 

nisi* 1 i- .. 13. llu salmu da-. . . . 

.14. tu-ur-dmn-ma ina ali-ya ta-. . . . 

.15. -ka . sami-i tu-ur- 

[dam-ma] 16. GAR . -lu 


1 Since the plates have been lithographed I have joined to No. 21 two 
small fragments K 6612 and K 6588. The former, while giving additions to 
11. 1—12, adds two lines to the text which in the Tra?isliteration are numbered 
[1] and [2]; the latter completes portions of 11. 37—47. For the present text of 
11. [1]—12 and 37—47 cf. Additions to the plates. 















































78 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


sa-mid diiru ru- .>7. di-bi-. . . . 

. -an u abni * 1 birku . 1 8. ilu ali-yci . . . 

. -am-ma u-hal-lu . i9- ilu Rammanu 

bilu . -ha a-ta-ta-ma . 2 °- [a-na?] 

ya-a~si .......... a-ta-ta-ma . 21 . 

. an-ni-t via-fear- . h-ki un-m-ni-ya inu-gu-ur 

su-[pi-ya] 22 . pi-ka lu la itifya-a . 

i-piS ri-ba lu la ikSud-an-ni ya-fa-sii] 23. [nar]-[ri-ka Lu-Sa-pz 
[dalili-ka] ana nisil l rapsatd 1 lud-[lul] 


24. [IN 1M].INIM.MA 


SU [IL.LAJ ilu Rammanu.[KAN] 


25. ilu Rammanu pit-Su ittanandu . . . 

alu lu bit ilu ali uS-tdl-pi? .26. . . , 

libit bit Hi lu . lu sa-mz-id diiru ru-. 

.- ify .- in-na - . . . 


27 


28. [DU].DU BI ina miisi guSiiru [arku mil illu tasalafj GlJ.GAL 
ana pan ilu Rammanu tukan(an) 2 9. suluppu KU.[A. TIR taSa- 
pak(ak) SA Samni nikit mil dispu fyimitu tasakan(an) 30. tmmiru nikii 

tanaki[(ki)] . -tah-ba-ma 31. SIT . 

-z-n-.32. ki- . ilu Rammanu .33. . . 

. -ni . 

34. [siptu] Sur-bu-u .35. [ilj-mu la a-ni-bu .... 

.36. [ ilu ]Ramma?iu sur-bu-ii .37. u-mu 

la a-ni-bu .38. Sa-kin it-mz-z . -bu- 

.39. kas-kas-su git-ma-[lu] . . -a-ld- 

. 40. sam-ru la H-- .. 

....... 41. ilu Rammanu kas-kas-su git-ma-[lu Sam]-ru la li-['] m 

. 42. la-id muk-tap-lu . .. -ri aS-tu- . 

43. sd-gis(?) ga-as-ru . -i-di muS-tar- . 

44. mu-ur-si in-ni- . -pal-lu-u Sal- . 

45. si- . du- . -iz ta-Sib- . 

46. ni- . i-dan-ni kar-da mi- .47. ilu 

. -sz(?) . 48. ina . 

49 - . 50 ... . . 

Rev. 


52 . 


51. 1 1 bzr-tum ab- . 

. [kul]-lat ildnH 1 sa . 53. 

-tak-ku-h . 34. ya-ii aS-rat ta- 

.* • - 55 * Hit u Sap lit ib-ni- .56. 






































































PRAYERS TO RAMMAn. 


79 


a-bi ilani$ l .57. apsu 


ni-mi-ki .58. tlu Bilit banat(at) ilani^ 1 sa-lum-ma- 

to .59. tlu Marduk tu-sir us-mal-la kat-ta-ka na - 

mur-ra-ta . 60. ina I.KUR bit simati^ 1 sa-ka-a 


[ri-sa-a-kar] 61. bilu ri-mi-nu-u ina ildni . 

62. ip-sa-ku usna du -ai ma-bar-ka ut-nin sa bat ......... 

63. ri-man-ni-ma bilu si-mi tas-[li-ti?] 64. [fyitl]-lik ai-bi-ya tu-ru-nd 

lim- .65. [at] iUbu-ni imti imti imti arsasi'* l . . . 

.66. naplisa-ni-ma ki-bi dum-ki -. 

67. [ili-yd] u llu istari-ya suhna(ma) itti-ya 68. 

[lib]-ba-ka li-nn-ba lippasra(ra) ha-bit-ta-ka suhna(ma) suk-[na] 

69 . li-ri-man - ni . -yd lisd-a rimu 

70 .. niki an-ni-ma . lii-ta-id ilu-ui-ka 

71. [nar - bi] - ka lu - [sa] - pi dalili - ka lud - lul 

72. [IN 1 M].INIM.MA SU IL.LA il * Rammdnu.KAN 


73. [DUDU] BI i-nu-ma llu Rammdnu ina ki-rib sami-i pii-su 

it-ta-na-an-du-u 

74 . -to sa . illu iasalab SA.NA 

burasi ina isati asagi ta-sar-rak 
75 - [SU?] IL.LA . ras-si-ma si-ina-a-at 

76. [sipin] llu Rammdnu .- ta-as-nu su-pu-u ilu gas-rii 

77 . ~bi~ . -ul-fyu da-pi-nu ku-ra-du 

78 ... -pi-i-ti mu-sal-lit u-mi 

79 . -to- . ds-li-i-ti nu-uk-ka gam-ra-a-ti 


80. [ba?]-su-u bir-ki 

81. [mu] - ut - tab - bit sami - i 

82 .- mu - ka . 

83 . - sim - mi . 

84 . -bi-i . 

85 . -bi it-bu . . . 

86 . -sa-am is- . -ti- ma 


sadiA 


si - mu - u 
- du - u 
da-a-ri-sii 
i-dal-la-la 


a-bu-bi 
ma - a - ti 
si - kir - ha 
Ipir-sa-a-ni 
n-ga-ru 
kur-di-ka 


87. U.A ur-ki-tu(?) tu-sal-1am sab-sa 

88. [ana] ya-a-si arad-ka ana tu-ub-ba-ti si-di-ir-ma 

89. [minima] Sumsu ri-i-ma dd-U-li-ka hid-lul 

90. -ka tabu litltam ma-ra ana nisi* 1 rapsati* l 


91. INIM.IN 1 M.MA SU IL.LA ilu Rammdnu.KAN 

92. [DUJ.DU BI lu ina [SAR] lu ina SA.NA ipus(us) 






































8o 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


93. ilu bilu tii-pu-u git-ma-lum ilani* l ra-sub-bu 

94. ikal m ilu Assur-ban-apli etc . 

Like No. 6 (cf. supra p. 33 f.) No. 21 has been built up of 
several fragments of the K. Collection (K 2741 + K 3180 + 
K3208 -f K5043 + K 6588 + K6612 + K 6672 + K 6908 
+ K 7047 + K 8498 + K 9157 -f* K 10219 + K 10497 + 
K 13431 + K 13793). The tablet at present contains traces of 
ninety-five lines; about six or seven lines however are missing 
from the beginning, and eight or nine from the end of the Ob¬ 
verse. It will be seen therefore that the tablet is somewhat 
similar in size to Nos. 6 and 12. The text commences with a 
prayer or incantation which is followed by two ceremonial 
sections, the first of three lines, the second being six lines in 
length. Then follows a second long prayer, which is in all 
probability continued without a break on the Reverse of the 
tablet. This is in turn followed by a section of three lines of 
ceremonies and a third incantation of fifteen lines. All the 
prayers and ceremonies are to be recited and performed in 
honour of the god Rumman. 

The first prayer is much broken; it concludes with the 
desire that Rumman will accept his suppliant's sighing and re¬ 
ceive his supplication: let no evil approach or possess him and 
he will proclaim the greatness of the god unto distant nations. 
The rubric in 11 . 25—27 contains the statement that the prayer 
is to be repeated during a certain state of the wind, while 
11. 28—33 recount the ceremonies that are to accompany its 
recitation. The commencement of this latter section is identical 
with that of the first ceremonial section in No. 12, for a trans¬ 
lation of which cf. supra p. 60. 

The beginning of the second prayer is very similar to 
No. 20, 11 . 8ff. (see above p. 76). At 1 . 58 the goddess Bilit is 
addressed, and in the following line the god Marduk. After 
allusions to his power and mercy the suppliant states that he 
is petitioning before him, and the prayer concludes (11. 61 ff.): 

4 ‘Have mercy on me, and, 0 Lord, hear my prayerj Destroy 
my foes and drive away the wicked! Never let there approach 
me the poisons, the enchantments ..... pity me 

and command favour! 0 my god and my goddess, may peace 




PRAYERS TO RAMMAN, 


8l 


be my portion] .may thy heart have rest, may thine 

anger be loosened, and do thou establish prosperity] Thy great¬ 
ness let me praise, let me bow in humility before thee]” The 
directions for ceremonies that follow this prayer enjoin that 
“when the Storm-god has set his mouth (t. e. has spoken) in the 
midst of heaven”, among other offerings “a vessel of incense 
with fire of the asagu-ssrood” shall be presented. 

The last prayer on the tablet commences with the follow¬ 
ing invocation of the Storm-god: “O Ramman .power¬ 
ful one, O mighty god].strong one, O hero!. 

who darkenest the day! .Possessor of the lightning. 

Lord of the storm-flood! Who destroyest the heavens, the 
mountains, and the seas!” The prayer concludes with general 
petitions for mercy and blessings. The colophon-line in 1 . 91 
is followed by the rubric which has been already discussed 
on p. 71 f. 

25. That is probably to be transliterated ittanandu , 

cf. 1. 73. 

67. As -ma is evidently the phonetic complement, <T 3 = 
cannot = lislimu {cf. No. 1, 1. 23 f. etc .); it should rather be 
transliterated by the subs, suhnu as in 1. 68. 

89. lul-tam-mci-ra for lustammar , cf. lu-us-tam-mar ilu-ut- 
ka {or -£2), No. 8, 1 . 17, No. 9, 1. 11, etc. 


No. 22 . 


Transliterati on. 


Obv. 

1. siptu rubu asaridu 

2. massu-u 1 i-ii-ip-su 

3. tlu Nabu na-as duppu 

4. Ml I.Z 1 D.DA 

5. na - ram ilu ta 

6. asarid Babili 


bu-kur ilu Marduk 


i-lit-ti llu Zarpanitu 

si-mat ilani* 1 a-sir LSAG.ILA 
su-lul dfiru Bor sip pa KI 

ka - i - su balatu 
na - si - ni na - pis - ti 


1 A [massu]-u. 


M 







PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


82 


7. ilu du-ul da-dd-mi kar nisi* l Ml is-n-ti 

8. zi - kir - ka ina pi nisi* l SU.DUB.BA ' h ‘sidu 

9. mar ruM(P) raM(?) ilu Mardnk ina pi - ka kit- t^ 

10. ina si-ik-ri-ka' 1 kabti ina ki-bit zlu-ti-ka rabiti(ti) 

11. ana-ku pulanu apil puldni . mar-su stm-ru-su arad-ka 

12. sa kat utukki-ma imat BUR.RU.DA nam-kil-lu-ni-ma nak- 

lulu(?)-ni 

13. ln-ub-hrt lu-us-lim-ma . GUB.BU.DU htksud(?)(ud) 

14. su - us - kin kit - [ti ] ina pi - yd 2 

15. sup - si - ka [damikii(ti)] ina libbi - yd 

16. ti - i - ru u 3 man - za - [2a hk - bu - u] damikh(ti) 

17. li-iz-ziz [ili-ya • J ina imni-ya 

18. li-iz-ziz [ ilu istari-ya ] ina Sumili-yh 

19. il “sidu damiktu il, ‘[lainassu damiktu] . -kzsztti-ya 

20. su-ut-li-ma-am-[ma] . u ma - ga - [ra] 


21. si - kir A a - ta - . - . . 

22. mar rnbi(r) rabi-i$ [ llu ] 

23. panu - ka ki - nil • • 

24. ilu Marduk KAN . • 

25. . 

26. ilu . 

27. ilani^ 1 . 

28. llu Nabu . 


ti Hi - . 

... la ki -. 

lu - ul - hi (?) 

KAN.SIR - [kar] 
lik - ru - bu - ka 
. -ka 


29. ina I ... 

30. INIM.INIM.[MA SU 1 L.LA _ itu Nabu].KAN 

JBBuDUBlYl KA Jimi . 

32. isu tanitii itti kimu ARA . 

33. KAS.SAG tanaki(ki) tubbal-ma liptu . 

34. kurmat-su tasakan-ma mafe-rat . -i 


35. siptu bit 7iu-ru ab-kal . 


36. ilu siru [a] - pil ilu Marduk 

37. ilu Nabii abkallu alaridu ir - su inudu - u 

38. ilu siru a - pil ilu Marduk 

39 . -mar-ral lami-i ti irsitim(tim) 

40 ... -tu-ii la ISAG.ILA 


1 IT ina zik-ri-ka. 2 B ina pi-ya. 3 Omitted by B. B zi-kir. r> B war 
rubt(?) ral>i(?). 

























PRAYERS TO NABtf. 


83 


4 1 . llu Marduk sar Hand 1 

42. , . .. faur-sa-nu illu0 l tamatirapsatH 1 

43. u-tdk-ku . 


44 ' 


Rev. 

45 * 

46. 

47 * 

48. 

49. 

50 . 
Si- 
52 . 
53 * 
54 * 
55 * 
56 . 
57 * 
58 . 
59 * 

60. 

61. 

62. 

63- 

64. 
65 * 
66 . 
6 7 * 


. ki-di- . 

. d-a-tii sak- . 

.- na ik - sa - . ana DI.DI(is) 

UGU-ma ki-z . ta-sa-kan lZu salmu 

sd in - si kil - lint -. ta - da - an 

ana - ku puldnu apil pnlani .- ka 

marustu im - mur - . - sa - ku 

ina ku - u - ru u . - a - ni 

ina In - 7 nun .- ii 

pit, u lisanu ka -.- ya 

ma u-mz an-ni-z . -sid 

az-ziz 7na-ba7'-ka .. ka 

[snj-lul-ka tabu ia-ai(?)~ . -a ili-ya 

[ui']-foi lid-mi-ik . li-sir 

[kib] - sa i - sa - ra su - kun ina szpi du - ya 

bzlu Hi - yd si - lim it - ti - ya 

tlu Nabu bzlu Hi - ya si - lim it - ti - ya 

mu - si lid - mi - ka sunat$ l - u - a 

uti - ni - na bal - ta tlu sidu 

si - ma - a suk - na ya - si 
ilu-ti-ka rabztiptij] lu-ub-lut lu-di-ma 

ana nisip 1 rapSati* 1 ] lud - lid 


i - na sat 
ri - i - ma 
ka - ba - a 
ina ki-bit 
dalzlH 1 - ka 


68. INIM.INIM.MA 

[SU IL.LA] 

ilu Nabu.KAN 

69. DU.DU BI [lu 

ina SAR lu ma 

SA],NA ipztsfus) 


70. siptu lZu [Na-bi-um a-sa-ri-du 

71. ikal [ m ilu Assur-ban-apli etc . 


bu-kur] tlu Marduk 


No. 22 (K 140 + K 3352 + K 8751 + K 10285) forms 
the upper portion of a large tablet, from which about a quarter 
is at present missing. The tablet contains portions of three 
prayers and of one cferemonial section, all of which are com¬ 
posed in honour of the god Nabu. The first prayer on the 


























84 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


tablet contains petitions for life and prosperity, and was in¬ 
tended for the relief of a man suffering’ from sickness and de¬ 
moniacal possession. The end of the prayer is broken; the 
first 20 11., however, read as follows. 

Translation. 

1. O hero, prince, first-born of Marduk ! 

2. 0 prudent ruler, offspring of Zarpanitu ! 

3. 0 Nabu t Bearer of the tablet of the destiny of the gods, 

Director of Isagila ! 

4. Lord of Izida, Shadow of Borsippa! 

5. Darling of la, Giver of life! 

6. Prince of Babylon, Protector of the living! 

7. God of the hill of dwelling, the fortress of the nations, the 

Lord of temples! 

8. Thy name is.in the mouth of the peoples, O SzdiiX 

9. O son of the mighty prince Marduk> in thy mouth is justice! 

10. In thy illustrious name, at the command of thy mighty 

godhead, 

11. I so and so, the son of so and so, who am smitten with 

disease, thy servant, 

12. Whom the hand of the demon and the breath of the. 

13. May I live, may I be perfect. 

14. Set justice in my mouth! 

15.mercy in my heart! 

16. Return and be established! May they command mercy! 

17. May my god stand at my right hand! 

18. May my goddess stand at my left hand! 

19. May the favourable sidu , the favourable lamassu . 

with me! 

On the conclusion of the prayer there follows a section 
of four lines containing directions for the making of certain 
offerings, and the commencement of an incantation, both of 
which are much broken. On the Reverse of the tablet is in¬ 
scribed the conclusion of a prayer, which may possibly be the 
continuation of that which commences at the end of the Ob¬ 
verse. The sick man, after making a formal statement in 1.51 
of his own name and of that of his father, concludes the prayer 
with the following petitions. 








PRAYERS TO NABt). 


85 


56. At this time. 57-1 stand before thee.! 

58. Good is thy shadow.! 

59. May my way be propitious .....! 

60. Set a pleasant path for my feet! 

61. O lord, my god, deal graciously with me! 

62. O lord Nabu , my god, deal graciously with me! 

63. In the night season may my dreams be propitious! 

64. Mercy, compassion, (and) life, O sidu, 

65. Command, grant my petition and establish me! 

66. At the command of thy mighty godhead let me live, let me 

have knowledge! 

67. In the sight of(?) wide-spread peoples may I bow in hum¬ 

ility before thee! 

The catch-line for the next tablet reads: “O Nabu , the 
prince, the first-born of MardukV ’ 

2. i-H-ip-su probably for itpisu an adj. of the form 
from T/eteK. 

9. That the beginning of this line is not to .be read mar 
abgalli ilu Marduk appears from 1. 22 , in which -i is added to 

the sign mar rubi rabi llti Marduk seems therefore to be 

the only reading admissible. 

- T J§T here poss. = busu , i, e. “prey of the demon”, 
but the transliteration sa kat appears to me better, as it ba¬ 
lances imat in the following phrase. 

14. For this and the following petitions cf. No. 9, 11 . 13 ff. 
The present prayer is composed throughout on somewhat si¬ 
milar lines to the first prayer of No. 9. 


No. 23. 

Transliteration. 


1. 2. li-H-rib 

3. li-ki U7i-ni-[ni-ya] 4. 


.- - 5 - 

6. [INIMJNIMMA 


. [nar] - bi - ka 

SU IL.LA 


. ,-da-ar-ti 
lu - [sa - pi] 


ilu ]Sin.KAN 


1 


nis 


8 
















86 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


[ ilu ]Sin .. 9. * l 

10. II. 


No. 23' (K 13277) contains a few phrases from the end of 
a prayer to Sin and from the beginning of a section of cere¬ 
monies to be performed in honour of the same god. 


No. 24. 

Transliteration. 


1. -id . 2.- bit 

ik -. 3.. sar-ra-ti ra -. 

4. [INIMJJN 1 M.MA SU 1 L.[LA ilu Sin.KAN] 

5. [AG].AG BI i-nu-ma ilu Sin . 6. 

. tanaki(ki) ana pan ilu Sin . 7. 

. munufnu) . 

The name of the god to whom the prayer on No. 24 
(K 13922) is* addressed has not been preserved in the colophon¬ 
line. As, however, the ceremonies that follow it are to be ob¬ 
served in honour of Sin during a certain phase or position of 
the moon (cf. T. 5), it is clear that the preceding prayer is also 
addressed the Moon-god. 


No. 25. 

Transliteration. 

i-. 2. dir -. 

3 . a~ti~ra-. . . . 4. 

ma-J}ar-ka lu~ . 

5 Z [IN 1 M.INIM.MA Ju IL.LA] ^ Sin.[KAN] 

6.- ki-im abums 7. -ti 

III sanitu munu[(nu)] 8. SA samni hnrasu VII 

. 9 . 

Like the two preceding fragments No. 25 (K 13296) con¬ 
tains the conclusion of a prayer to Sin and the commencement 
of a ceremonial section. 



























PRAYERS TO THE MOON-GOD. 


8? 


No. 26. 


Transliteration. 


Obv. 


I. 

. 


... - bit 

3 - 

/ IN 1 M. 1 NIM. MA 

SUJ IL.LA . 

ilu Sin.KAN 

Rev. 

i o . -faur 

ina unii magari gusnru 

7.- . kzmn 

- ma 9. 

ilu Sin 
ta - sa - bit 

tnbbal-ma 
. . . rabu 

11, 


12. 



No. 26 (K 10550) preserves portions of a prayer to Sin 
and a ceremonial section of seven lines, which runs over onto 
the Reverse of the tablet, and was probably followed by a 
second prayer or incantation. 


No. 27. 

Transliteration. 

1. siptu bi-lum gas-ru ti-iz-ka-[ru bn-kur Uu NU.NAM.NIR] 

2. a-sa-rid ilu A-nun-na-[ki bzl tam-fya-H] 

3. 1 i-lit-ti llu KU. TU.SAR [sar-ra-tum 2 rabiium(tnm)] 

4. tlu Nilgai kas-kas ilani* l [na-ram ilu NlN .MIN.NA] 

5. sii-pa(?)-ta ina sami-i illiitip 1 sd-ku 3 man-za-az-ka] 

6. ra-ba-ta ina aralli-[ma asira(ra) LA. TI-su] 

7. it-li llu I-a ina pit four* [ilanimi-lik-ka 5 su-tur] 

8. it-ti tlu Sin ina sami-i [ ta-si- 6 gim-ri] 

9. id-din-ka-ma 1 llu Bil abu-[ka sal-mat kakkadu pu-Ijur napisti(ti)] 

10. bu-ul llu Nirgal nam-mas-[si-i ka-tuk-ka ip-kid] 


1 Sm. 398, cited as C , is duplicate of 11 . 3—16. 2 C [$ar]-ra-ti. 3 C 

[$d]-ku-ii. 4 A [ina pu]-hur. 5 mi-lik-ha has been restored from C. 6 C U-U-. 

7 A iddin-ka-ma. 













88 PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


II. 

1 ana-ku 

pulanii apil pulani [ 



arad-ka] 

12. 

mi-lat 

Hi u lUl istari 

[is 

- sak - nu - 

nim - ma] 

I 3 - 

nasafazi 

u feu-lu-uk-ku-[u 2 

basii-n 3 

ma 

Mti-ya] 

* 4 * 

ka-bu-u 

4 la si-mu-[lc 


it - tal - 

pit 

- nin - ni] 

15 * 

as-sum 

gam-ma-la-ta 

bi-lH 

[as-sa-faar 

ilu-ut-ka] 

16. 

ds-sum 

ta-ai-ra-ta 6 

[ 

is - ti - 

3 

u - ka(?)] 

1 7 - 

ds-sum 

mu-up-pal-sa-ta 

[a - la - mar . , 


. ■] 

18. 

ds-sum 

ri-mi-ni-ia 1 

[at - 

fa - ziz 

pdni - ka(?J] 

19. 

ki-nis 

naplis-a?i-ni-ma 

[ 

si - mi 

ka 

- ba - ai] 

20. 

ag-gu 

Ub-ba-ka 8 

[ 

li 

- ; 

nu - Jja] 

21. 

[pu]-tur 

an-ni bi-[ 

Fti-ti 9 



. ■] 

22. 


sir Ub-bi 

ihi-ti-ka 




23* 

ilu u 

ilu istaru zi-nu- 

ti sal 

-. 



24. 

nir-bi-ka 

lu-uk-bi 

[dd-li-li-ka 

lud-lul] 


25. [INIMJNIM. 3 fA] SU [IL.LA ilu NirgaLKAN] 

26. 10 ... 


No. 27 (K 2371 + K 13791) contains the first prayer of 
what was originally a large tablet. It has been restored chiefly 
from the duplicate which is cited as A. This tablet is a com¬ 
paratively small one and contains nothing more than the prayer 
in 11. 1—25 of the text, followed by a catch-line, its Obv. giv¬ 
ing 11 . 1 —15 in 22 lines, its Rev. 11 . 16—25 in 10 or 11 lines, 
while the end of the Reverse is left blank. It is inscribed in 
rather coarse characters, and was copied from one of the larger 
texts for Ashurbanipal, who substituted his own name in place 
of the general formula in 1 . 11. Moreover the insertion of the 
eclipse-formula in A changes the general character of its peti¬ 
tions and proves that the copy was required for use during 
or after an eclipse of the moon. Thus restored, not much is 
missing from the prayer. LI. 1 —10 contain the invocation of 
the god, at 1. 11 the suppliant states his name and goes on to 


1 For 1. li A reafls ana-ku m Ailur-ban-apli arad-ka , which is followed by 
the formula ina lumun ll u a t a fi eiCm three lines; 11. 11 and 12 form one line in 

B and C. 2 A hul-hu-tt. 3 <7 balu-u. 4 A 1 $a-bu-u «, B kd-bu- . 

5 A [ilujMrgal. 6 A [taj-ai-rat. 7 A [ r i-mi]-na-ta. 8 A Ubba-ka. 9 A fri-fi-tL 
10 0f t-ke catch line, with which the text of B concludes, only the end has been 
preserved:. INMUL-hi. 











PRAYER TO NIRGAL. 


89 


describe his cause of complaint, and the conclusion of the 
prayer contains his various petitions. 

Translation. 

1. O mighty lord, hero, first-born of NU.NAM.NIR\ 

2. Prince of the Anunnaki , lord of the battle! 

3. Offspring' of KU.TUSAR the mighty queen! 

4. O Nirgal , strong" one of the gods, the darling of NIN.MIN.NA ! 

5. Thou treadest in the bright heavens, lofty is thy place! 

6. Thou art exalted in the Under-world and art the bene¬ 

factor of its. 

7. With la among the multitude of the gods inscribe thy 

counsel! 

8. With Sin in the heavens thou seekest all things! 

9. And Bil thy father has granted thee that the black-headed 

race, all living creatures, 

10. The cattle of Nirgal, created things, thy hand should rule! 

11. I so and so, the son of so and so am thy servant! 

12. The.of god and goddess are laid upon me! 

13. Uprooting and destruction are in my house! 14. 

15. Since thou art beneficent, I have turned to thy divinity! 

16. Since thou art compassionate, I have sought for thee! 

17. Since thou art pitiful, I have beheld .....! 

18. Since thou art merciful, I have taken my stand before thee! 

19. Truly pity me and hearken to my cries! 

20. May thine angry heart have rest! 

21. Loosen my sin, my offence. 22. 

23. O god and angry goddess. 

24. Let me talk of thy greatness, let me bow in humility be¬ 

fore thee! 

4. The title ilu NIN.MIN.NA , i. e. “Lady of the crown”, is 
evidently an abbreviated form of ilu NlA T .MIN.AN.NA, i. e. “Lady 
of the crown of heaven”, since the former occurs as a variant 
of the latter in 1 . 48 of the Cylinder-inscription of Sargon, 
cf. Lyon, Sargon , p. 8, n. 2 and p. 71. 

6. For the rendering of A EtU by the Part, of afaru 
cf. Brunnow, List, no. 8211 and No. 12, 1 . 32, a-si-ru ilu Igigi* l . 
^ * s apparently a compound ideogram. - ET HH 

N 








qo 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODS. 


i. e. ina ma-ti-su cannot be read, as the duplicate A clearly 
reads 

7. su-iur might poss. be read for Su-tur i. e. “mighty is thy 
counsel”. 

19 f. L. 19 has been restored from No. 2, 1 . 32, etc., though 
poss. some other synonym for “prayer” or “cry” may have been 
employed. L. 20 is restored from No. 21, 1 . 68, No. 46, 1. 5, etc. 


No. 28 . 

Transliteration. 


1.2. -frar-ra 3. 

Uslimu(mu) itti-ya 4. [da-li-li-ka] lud-lul 


5. [INIM.INIM.MA 

SU IL.LA] 

ilu Nirgal.KAN 

6. [DU.DU BI lu ina 

V 

SAR lit ina] 

SA,NA ipns(us) 


7. -u ilu n-mi-nu-'k 8. mu-bal-lit 

amUu mitu 9. -gu-u ify-tu-u 10. 

-lib a-du-ur-ma 11. -ub-la 12. 

-ka li-nu-ba 13. 

No. 28 (K 3355) is a small fragment from the right side 
of a large tablet. It preserves a few phrases from the end of 
a prayer to Nirgal and from the beginning of a prayer to a 

god who is addressed as “a merciful god.the quickener 

of the dead! 














Section III. 

Prayers addressed to Goddesses. 


Like the preceding division, Section III is made up of 
tablets containing prayers addressed only to one deity. While 
the prayers in Section II, however, are composed in honour of 
gods, those in the present Section are addressed to goddesses. 
Nos. 30 and 33, and possibly Nos. 29 and 35, contain but one 
prayer, which is accompanied, in the case of the two former, 
by directions for ceremonies. The tablets are comparatively 
small and are inscribed in a somewhat large and coarse cha¬ 
racter, and, like others in Section II, may perhaps be regarded 
as forming extracts from the larger compositions. The ques¬ 
tion whether any large tablet existed, containing a series 
of prayers and ceremonies addressed only to one goddess, 
and in its arrangement corresponding to Nos. 12, 21, and 22, 
is one that cannot be answered with certainty. It is true that 
Nos. 31, 32, and 34 are fragmentary portions of large tablets, 
and, as their present contents refer only to one goddess, they 
have been classified under the present Section. It is not im¬ 
possible, however, that the tablets of which they are fragments 
originally contained prayers addressed to other deities. Their 
inclusion , therefore, under this Section must be regarded as 
provisional. 



92 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODDESSES. 


¥o. 29. 

Transliteration. 

1 . [du ?]-iim-mu-ku ku-um-ma . 

FJ.iNIMJNIMMA] Ju ILIA ^Fa^KAN] 

3 . ti-iz-ka-ru bu - kur tlu . 

No. 29 (K 13907) has preserved three lines from the Re¬ 
verse of a small tablet, which represent the last line of a prayer 
followed by its coloplion-line, and apparently the catch-line for 
the next tablet. The latter should possibly be restored from 
No. 27, 1 .1: [siptubi-liimgas-ru]ii-iz-ka-rubii-kur llu [NU.NAM,NIR]. 

If this is so, the sign must have been written over an erasure. 


¥ 0 . 30. 

Transliteration. 

1 . 

2 karpatu Qjjgj karani ib - hi (?) . 

3 . as-ruk-ki si-rik . 

4 . . .. in-na- . 

5 . a-ku- . -a-ba si -. 

6 . linub(uh) libbn - ki ha - bit - ta -. 

7 . ana-hu pulanu apil pulani sa marustu . 

8 . da - ya - na - ti di - ni di -. 

9 . mus - ti - ti - ra - a - ti a - lak - ti ki -.* . . 

10 . li - sab - ra Hi sa iz - nu - u itti - [ya?] 

11 . in - nin - ti kab - ri ka - si - ti li -. 

12 . linasib(ib) mursn sa zumri-ya linasi(si) MUN.GU sa da - 


13 . lip - ta - ti - ni a - di - ra - th sa lib - bi - ya 

14 . sur-dim-ma sumu u ziru lu rimu si-li-ti £ hi-sa-pa zi-kir-ki 

15 . lublut(ut) hi - ns - lim - ma nir - bi - ki lu - sa - pi 

16 . da - li - li - ki lud - lul 

17. a - mi - m - it - a nir - bi - £2 //’ - sa - pu - u 

18 . a - na nisH 1 rapsati? 1 




















PRAYER TO SALA ETC. 


93 


Rev. 

19. [INIMJJNIM.MA SU 1 L.LA ilu [Istar.KAN] 

20. AG.AG BI ina iimi magari URU TI ana pan iln Istar itmmu 

21. mu Mu tasalafy GL GAB tukcin(an) suluppu KUA.T 1 R [ta - 

sapak(ak)] 

22. SA samni niku mil dispu Umitu tasakan[(a?i)] 

23* kar * a *"a - da - gitr tukdn(an) KAS.SAG tanaki(ki) 

24. SID(di) SIR.AD KU.DUB.JDUB.BU SUB.[SUB(di)] 

25. KU.KU U uirinu SID la ^ l ILXA ARA . 

26. ina samni wmrtnini MU SAL wurkarinnu ialaki Ml ina 

TLSAR [tasakan(an)] 

27. siptu an-ni-tu III sanitu immu-ma . 

28. riksu tapaiar - ma samnu siiaiu (r) . 

29. an-nu-ii ki- . tn- .. . . 

30. siptu %l-ti ilu Igigi bu - uk - rat . 

31. duppu CXXXIV ^ siptu . .. 

32. ikal dn Assur-ban-apH etc. 

A little over one third of the original tablet has been 
preserved by No. 30 (K 3448)- The text contains a single 
prayer addressed to the goddess 1 star, followed by a ceremonial 
section, and, according to the colophon, forms the 134th tablet 
of a certain series. Of the prayer to Isiar only the latter part 
has been preserved. The suppliant cries that he has poured 
out a libation to the goddess and prays that her heart may 
therefore have rest and that her anger may abate. After stat¬ 
ing his name in 1. 7 and the fact that he is suffering from 
sickness, he continues: — 

8. Thou art the judge of my cause. 

9. Thou art the director of my path. 

10. May my god who is angry with me turn I 

11. Sorrow, the grave, and bonds may he.! 

12. May he remove the sickness of my body, may he tear away 

the.of. 

13. May he loosen the grief of my heart! 

14. Cause name and posterity to advance; let there be mercy 

and compassion; let me praise thy name! 

15. Let me live, let me be perfect, let me praise thy greatness! 
















94 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODDESSES. 


16. Let me bow in humility before thee! 

17. May my.praise thy greatness 

18. Unto the distant peoples! 

The Reverse of the tablet begins with the colophon-line 
referring to the prayer contained by the Obverse. Then follows 
a section of ten lines of directions for ceremonies, which are 
to be performed before Istar “on a favourable day”. “Pure 
water shalt thou sprinkle. The ..... drink-ofFering shalt thou 

present. Dates (and).shalt thou heap up. A SA ot 

oil a drink-ofFering, water, honey (and) butter shalt thou offer. 

An incense-burner shalt thou set there. The.-drink shalt 

thou pour out.” LI. 24—26 prescribe certain rites to be per¬ 
formed with various woods and oil, and are followed by the 
injunction to recite the incantation three times and to unloose 
“the knotted cord”. 1 The end of the first line of the colophon 
(1. 31), which contained the title of the series to which the tablet 
belonged, is broken away. 

24. This line has been restored from No. 40, 1 . 12 (q. v .). 
That the signs KU.DUB.DUB.BU are to be taken together, 
cf No. 62, 1 . 29. 

25. The character T« is somewhat spread out on the 
tablet, so that it might almost be taken for two signs and read 
istinis(nis). As however other characters on the tablet are care¬ 
lessly written, it is preferable to regard it as one sign, as in 
No. 12, 1 . 10, etc . 


No. 31 . 

Transliteration. 

1. . . . . 

2. si . 

3 - sd . 

4. ana-kn pulanu [apil pularii so] ilu-su [pulanu ilu istar-su pula - 

nitum](tum) 

5. a-na ka-a-si . -dan 

6 . ina puski u dannati sii-zi-bi . [d&-U-lz]-ki lud-lul 


1 See above, p. 22. 











PRAYERS TO ISTAR. 


95 


7. INIMJNIM.MA SU IL.LA ilu . samU 

8 . ina miisi ana pan tlu Istar gusuru arku mu illu tasalafy 

9. GLGAB tukan(an) VII ta .a.an kurmati pl tar-bi(?) 

*o. burasi ta-sar-rak i-ti-ra u gi-mil-iu kun-ni 

11 . GL G1 bu-uk-rat ilu Sin ti-li-tu 

No. 31 (K 7207 + K 9675 + K 13274) represents the end 
of the Obverse of a tablet containing prayers and ceremonies 
addressed to the goddess Istar. LL 1—6 give the concluding 
phrases of a prayer, in the last three lines of which the sup¬ 
pliant states his own name, and, after probably referring to 
the offerings he has made to the goddess, concludes with a 
petition for deliverance “in misery and distress”. The prayer 
is succeeded by three lines of ceremonies to the following 
effect: “In the night before Istar thou shalt sprinkle a green 

bough with pure water. The.drink-offering shalt thou 

present. Seven times the food shalt thou. A. 

of incense shalt thou offer. Place thou there a garment and 
a gift.” L. 11 commences an incantation that was continued 
on the Reverse of the tablet. 


No. 32. 

Transliteration. 


1 . -bu 

2 . [INIMJNIM.MA SU] ILXA ilu Istar.KAN 

3 . [DU.DUBI ana pan ilu Istar SA].NA burasi tasakan KAS.SA G 


tanaki(ki) 

4 .Ill sanitu munu(nu) i-il-ta-su . 

5 . [ Uu ]istar-[$u?] itti-su salimu(mu?) 

6 . -na llu lstar ka-rid-ti i-ld-a-[ti] 

7.. man-za-az-ki ina ki-rib sami-i illutip 1 ] 

8 . -ii-ma ki-ma tlu Samas .. 

9 . sami* l sadi fl u tamatip 1 ] 

10. .- pis-ti na-mas-ti kak-ka-ri ta-bar-ri-i . 



















g6 PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODDESSES. 

11 . ni$i* 1 sa-pi-ifa-ti tus-ti-si-ri . ... . . 

12 .. . -ni-ki-mci kul-lat-si-na ba- . 

13 . -rn-ki na-mas-su-u .. * • • 

14. [at]-ti-ma llu I star li--at . 

15. -ki-ma Mltn ina ki-rib [samz-i illiiti$ 1 ?] 

Like the preceding fragment, No. 32 (K 3358 -f K 9 ° 47 ) 


represents the lower portion of the Obverse of a'tablet. Only 
one sign remains of the incantation to which the colophon-line 
( 1 . 2) refers. Then follow three lines of directions prescribing 
the offering of incense, the pouring out of a libation, and the 
due recital of the incantation three times. At 1 . 6 there com¬ 
mences a fresh prayer to the goddess Istar , containing the in¬ 
vocation of the goddess and a description of her power. The 
beginning and end of most of the lines are broken. 

6.: O Istar , heroine among goddesses! 


7. Thy seat is.in the midst of the bright heavens! 

8. Thou art and like the Sun-god.! 

9. [Lady?] of the sky, the mountains and the seas! 

10. Thou.the handiwork of creatures of the ground, 

thou beholdest.! 


11. Thou scatterest the nations.. thou directest.! 

12 .all of them ..... 13. .... . creation.! 

14. Thou, O Istar, art powerful.. 

15. And thy...... O Lady, is in the midst of the bright heavens! 


No. 33 . 

Transliteration. 


1. . ..- zu - zu i-lat mu - na -. 

2. [inns(?)]-ti(?)-zs-ma-at a-mat-sa sa-ki-na-ai . 

3. [mus] - ii - ni - ify uz - zi Hi u . 

4. si - mat tas - li - ti u 

5. li - kat ik - ri - bi u un 

6 . im - sir - pa - a - ii a - pil 

7. dan(l) - . 1 L du-ru -. 


su - pi - i 
- ni - ni 
ilu Marduk 
. . . sadii-u 
kib-ra-a-ti 































PRAYER TO TASMlTU. 


97 


8. zir LZID.DA bit si-kin na-pis-ti sd ilanirabutiB 
g. [sar] - rat Bor sip pa KI ba - * - lat da - ad - mi 

10. [ ilu ] Tas-mi-tum bi-il-tum sa ki-bi-sa gas-[rati] 

11. . ilu istarati* 1 [rabati* 1 (?)] . . .. 

12 . ina ilania - bi kib - ra - a - ti 

13 .. i - kis -ki ka - a - si 

14 . -ri . -si-na azkur(ur) pdni-ki 

15 . tas-ma-a u sa - li - ma 

16 . -at ma-gi-ri [ta-sa?]-ka-ni tas-ma-a u sa-li-ma 

17 . -ris-ma . -nu tu-sa-as-mi-i ki-bit-su-un 

18 . Izb-ba-su-nu tu-si-is-si-ri is- . 

19 . & 1 rn-kii-tii tu-sak-na pdnu-ki . 


20. llu Tas-mi-tum i-lat 1 su-pi u da-di M-[lit .J 

21. [ana]-ku pul arm apil puldni sa ilu-su pula?m llu istar-su [pu- 

laniium(turn)] 

22. 2 as - four - ki bilti - yd si - mi - i su - [pi - ya] 
2 3. [a]-na ilu Nabu faa-i-ri-ki 3 bilu asaridu man ris-[ti-i] 

24. [sa IJ.SAGJLA a-bu-[ti sab-ti-ma] 

25. [lis-mi ztk]-ri-ya 4 [ ina ki-bit pi-ki] 

26. [HI - ki un] - ni - ni - ya [lil - ma - da su - pi - ya] 

27. [ina zik-ri-su kabti](ti)] ilu [u ilu istar lislimu(mu) itti-ya] 

Rev. 

28. [li-in-ni-is]-si [mursu sa zumri-ya] 

29. [lit-ta-kil 5 ] ta-[ni-feu sa siri* l -ya] 

30. [lit-ta-bil] asakku [ sa bit dni$ l -ya] 

31. 6 . rn-fau-u ru-[su-u?] . 

32. [li-in]-ni-is-si ma-mi-iu 7 lit-[ta-kil 5 ni - . . . . .] 

33.. . gallu % li - sal - * [irat - su] 

34. [a-na(?J] nist$ l a-pa-a-ti 9 lis-sa-kin ba-ni-[ti] 

35 * [Hu] $ 10 sarni lik - bu - u damikti[(ii)] 

36. [ina ki-bit]-ki sir-ti Sa ul utlakkaru(ru ) 11 u an-ni-ki ki-[nini] l ~ 

37. [ ilu Tas - mi] - turn bi - il - tum x $ 

38. [INIMTNIM.MA SU] IL LA ilu Tas-mi-tum.KAN 


1 A ilat(at). 2 After 1 . 21 A Inserts the formula ina lumun ilu aiali etc . in 
two lines, and for 1 . 22 reads: aslmr-ki imid-ki li-mi-i a-ra-ti. 55 A ha- 3 -i-ri-ki. 
4 A zik-ri. 5 A li-ta-kil. 6 For 1 . 31 A reads: lip-pa-al-ru imtiP 1 imtiP 1 imtif 1 
la ibalu-u ili-yd. ? A ma-mit. 8 A lii-lu-ud NAM. TAR, 9 A ina pi-ki. 
10 An. 11 a uttakkarum(rum). *2 A inserts la ul inu-u, *3 A biltu. 

O 





















gS 


PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODDESSES. 


39 . mu illu iasalalj SA.NA burasi karri 

40 . GA ina kimi tasapak(ak) 

,41. munu(nu)-ma sukki?(ki)-ma 

42 . salimu(mu) 

43 . 

44 ... ina rik-si TA G-ma . 

45 . i-nu-ma tipus(us) suinu Hl(?)- . 

46 . [KAM] SAH(?) til takahi(lu) u- . 

47.. sar-rat kib-ra-a-ti i-lit M-li-i-ti 


48. ikal m tlu Assur-ban-apli etc. 

No. 33 (K 3432 + K 8147) is a small tablet inscribed with 
rather coarse characters, which are in places much broken. It 
contains a prayer to the goddess Tasmitu, the latter half of 
which is preserved in duplicate on the Reverse of No. 1 (see 
pp. 4, 6 f.). The prayer is followed by two short ceremonial 
sections, which with the catch-line and a short colophon com¬ 
plete the text of the tablet. The prayer commences as follows. 

Translation. 

1.O goddess. 

2. Who causeth her word to be obeyed, who establisheth.! 

3. Who appeaseth the anger of god and.! 

4. Who heareth prayer and supplication! 

5. Who accepteth petition and sighing!. 

8. 0 seed of Izida, the house of the living creature of the 

great gods! 

9. Queen of Borsippa, Lady of the Dwelling! 

10. 0 lady Tasmitu, whose command is mighty! 

The next few lines are broken. After stating ( 1 . 14) that 
he is crying before the goddess, the suppliant describes her 
merciful character, as the giver of peace and prosperity. At 
1. 20 he once more addresses her by name and proceeds to 
make his request. 

20. O Tas?miu, goddess of supplication and love, lady of.! 

21. I so and so, the son of so and so, whose god is so and 

so, whose goddess is so and so, 

22. Have turned towardsthee, Olady! Hearken to my supplication! 





















PRAYER TO TASMiTU. 


99 


23. Before Nabii thy spouse, the lord, the prince, the first-born son 

24. Of Isagila , intercede for me! 

25. May he hearken to my cry at the word of thy mouth! 

26. May he remove my sighing, may he learn my supplication! 

27. At his mighty word may god and goddess deal graciously 

with me! 

28. May the sickness of my body be torn away! 

29. May the groaning of my flesh be consumed! 

30. May the consumption of my muscles be removed! 

31. 1 .. . sorcery, poison,. 

32. May the ban be torn away may the.be consumed 

33 * May. 

34. May mercy be established among men (and their) habitations! 

35. May god and king ordain favour 

36. At thy mighty command that is not altered, and thy true 

mercy, 

37. O lady Tasmitu ! 

Of the two ceremonial sections a few phrases only have 
been preserved. The first prescribes that the sprinkling of pure 
water and the offering of incense of fiatm-wood shall accom¬ 
pany the recital of the incantation, while the second apparently 
deals, among other matters, with the rite of the knotted cord 
(cf. supra p. 71, etc.). 

24. On the restoration of the end of this line, see above 
p. 14). 

29. The verb lit-ta-kil is here restored from 1 . 32 and 
No. 1, 11 . 46, and 48 (cf. supra p. 14). 

32. The last sign in this line is probably to be restored as 
X (cf. PI. 3, No. I, Rev. (cofit), 1 . 48). For the explanation of 
nisit (=1 1, Inf. from nasit) as a synonym of mamitu, cf. supra , 

p. 66. 

41. The sign is written over an erasure; it is clearly 

however to be read as £44^ not mt- 

46. The reading ? suggested in the transliteration 

is not certain. 


1 For 1 . 31 A reads: “May the poisons that are upon me be loosened!” 


02 







IOO PRAYERS ADDRESSED TO GODDESSES. 

No. 34 . 

Transliteration. 


i.2. a-ta-mar 

3. pAr(?) -da-a ya - si 4. 

da-li-li-ki hid- 1 ul 


5. [.INIM.INIM.MA 

SU 

ILJ.LA 

ilu MI.Ml 

6. [DU.DU BI lu 

ina SAR] 

hi ina 

SA.NA ipus(us) 

7 . 


1.2. a-ta-mar 

3. pAr(?) -da-a ya - 4. 


The fragment No. 34 (K 11876) contains a few phrases 
from a prayer to the goddess ilu ML MI (cf. Brunnow, List, 
no. 10449), the two colophon-lines being followed by a second 
prayer or perhaps the catch-line for the next tablet. Of this 
line, however, only traces of signs remain. 

3. If the rendering of ►f- by pAr is correct pAr-da-a must 
= 3 f: pi. Prms. 1 1, from VttS. For another instance of the use 
of the verb in 1 1, cf Lotz, Tiglathpileser , Col. II, L 67 (p. 22) 

li-par-dii (-eST *T wp. and for its use in IY 1 with the 
meaning, according to Zimmern, Busspsalmen p. no, of “to shine 
to the bright”, cf\ IY R 60* [67], C. Rev. 1. 20 ka-bit-ta-su ip- 

par-du whence the epithet nipirdu , “shining” 

(see Delitzsch in Lotz’s Tigl. p. 106 and Zimmern, op. cit . p. 110). 

Perhaps also from this root are to be derived the subs. HF- 
(= p&rf) - da - a - ti in the phrase sunati * 1 p&r-da-a-d la tabati 

(IV R 17, 16 b), and 4 “ fcEFTI in No. 12, 1. 57. 


Wo. 35 . 

Transliteration. 

1. sa bi(?)-lu- .2. 

ma . 3. balafu si- . 4. 


ina pa-ni- . 5. nap-ti- 

. libbn Ijiduti- . 7. 


6 . . 

DIM. 


8 





















PRAYER TO BlLIT. 


IOI 


Rev. 


9 . 

GIS. 7 UK . 

.11 . IO. 

id-. .... 

. . . SA G. GA 

. 13 - 


14 . 

. . ni - is ka - a 

- ti sd 


15 . 

16 . 

. . sak(r) ki-bit ana 

arkat(?) L 

DA.RA 


No. 35 (K 2757) contains portions of a prayer to the god¬ 
dess j Bilit, at the end of which there follows the catch-line for 
the next tablet and traces of the first line of the colophon 
(1. 16). The interest of the fragment centres in 1 . 14, where we 
find the colophon-line, which is characteristic of the present 
class of texts, written phonetically (see above p. 13). 
















102 


Section IV. 

Prayers to deities whose names 
are not preserved. 

Section IV is composed of fragments of tablets, which 
contain the colophon-line that is characteristic of the present 
collection of texts, but from which the names of the deities 
addressed are missing. It is generally possible to distinguish 
whether a god or goddess is addressed. In some cases, how¬ 
ever, in addition to the colophon-line, only a few signs have 
been preserved. 


No. 86. 

Transliteration. 


i 


4 ' 


-hi . 2. -zi- 

3 . bi-tt-HQ) • * *. 

sur- .5. 3 - il-ti 


6. [IN 1 MJNIM.MA] SU IL.LA 


7 . burasi ina isati 

8 . SU IL.LA 

9 .- ina tislitu 

io. [ llu ]Igigi biituktu &a-si-, 


11. [ikal m tlu Assur]-ban-apli etc . 

The fragment No. 36 (K 9125) contains the end of a 
prayer, followed by three lines of directions for ceremonies, 





















PRAYER TO A GODDESS ETC. 


103 


which prescribe that the burning of incense and the rite of 
raising the hand are to accompany its recitation, L. 10 gives 
the catch-line for the next tablet 


No. 37. 

Transliteration. 

1 . ilu . 2 . ... fiapis - 

iim(tim) .• ■ . 3 . . ... J 1 libbi- . 

4 . fai-ir-tu . 5. 

[si?]-kin na-pis-ii . 

6 . [INIMJN1M.MA SU] IL.LA . 

7. [siptu] . 1 [biliu] sur-bu-tum ummu ri-mi-ni- 

tam 2 a-[si-bat sami-i illitffl 1 ] 

8 . [al-si-ki bilti-ya i-]ziz-zi-im-ma Si-mi-i 5 [ya-a-ti] 

9. [is-z-ki as&ur-ki 4 kima] ulinnu ili-ya u ilu i$tari-ya ulinnu-[ki 

as-bat] 

10 . [as - sum di - ni* da] - a - ni punzs [parasi(si) 6 ] 


11 . [is-sum bul-lu-tu]? sul-lu-mu basu-u 8 [itti-ki] 

12. [9 ds-sum Mr a gamala] ti - [di - z] 

13 . 1 [biliu sa-ku]-tum 10 ummu ri-[mi-ni-tum lI ] 


No. 37 (K 9087) contains a few words from the end of 
one prayer and the first seven lines from the commencement 
of another. The second prayer is addressed to a goddess and 
is partly duplicate of the prayer to Ban in No. 6, 11 . 71 ff., and 
of that to the goddess, who bears the title Bilit Hi, in No. 7, 
11 . 9 ff. For a translation see above, p. 34 f. 


1 Possibly to be restored from B iU; A ilu Bdu . 2 A ri-mi-[ni- 

tum], 8 A [St- mi]-I. 4 A as-htir-ki. 5 A di-in. 6 D [fia]-ra-$u. 7 A here 
inserts the copula u. 8 AD ha-hi-u. 9 For 1. 12 A reads dl-lum i-ti~ra ga-ma- 

Su-zu-ba ti-di-i } D . . .• ma-la u Su-zu-ba ti-di-i. 10 A 

Sur-[hu-tum], 11 D um-mu ri-mi-ni-tnm. 














104 


PRAYERS TO DEITIES 


No. 38. 

Transliteration. 

i. ana di- . 2. dd - li - [li - ] . 

3. IN 1 M.INIM.[MA SU IL.LA] . • . 

4. DU.DU [BI hi ina SAR l u ina. SA.NA ipus(us)] 

5. siptu stir- . 

6 . .. 

7. 

No. 38 (Ru. 91—5—9, 16) is a fragment from the left side 
of a tablet and preserves the beginnings of two lines from the 
end of a prayer, which is followed by the two common colo¬ 
phon-lines, the catch-line, and the beginning of the colophon. 


No. 39. 

Transliteration. 

1. 2. [a]-na ka- . 

3. ilu Istar . 

4. [LVJM.INIMJ.MA SU IL.LA . 

5. [DU.DU BI] lu ina SAR lu ina SA.NA [ipus(us)] 


6 . kakkabani * 1 i-lat sar . 

7 . -2-/2 i-lat 2-. . 

8 . ilani$ l Dl.BAR sami-i . . 

9 .. [damiktu](tu) llu Igigi nu-ur ma- 

10 . mus-na-mz-rat . . 

11 . -bu-u di - pa - ru - . . 

12 . it - ta - na - an - bi - tu . . 

13 . -ki bz-il-ti ina ki- . . 

14 .- ya ku - si - ma . . 

15 .- ni - ma ma - . . 

16. [ana-hi pulanu apil] pulani sa sum-ru . 

17. . . .. -ma&-ra dan-. . 

18. 






































WHOSE NAMES ARE NOT PRESERVED. 


105 


Of the first prayer to which the two colophon-lines (1. 4 f.) 
on No. 39 (K 8930) refer, a few characters only remain. The 
prayer that commences at 1 . 6 is addressed to a goddess. The 
first eight lines contain the invocation, and ascribe to her the 
power of giving light (to the world); the beginning and end 
of every line, however, is broken off. 


No. 40. 

Transliteration. 

.. DI . . . 

2. [INIM.INIM.MA ] SU IL.LA 77 


3 . £ l -su sa IMJL ilu .. 

4 .- at kuirinu a - [na?] .* 

5. ........ . . KUR.NA TU.UD.TA dipbru . 

6 . -nis-su-un-nu SIR ina lubuitupisati lubuttu . 

7 .- rit-ta-su YII babati* l tn- .. 

8 . kiip as sum tasakan(an) XXXVI SA AS. A. AN 

SIR ( .) 

9 . -na sa ZU.DU tukan(an) immiru niki tunam- 

mar(P) kap-ra tunikis(?)(is) 

10. rzruKAJZI SI.IL(ka) ms ini 

xx.. . [ku]irinu & upuntu tu-nam-mar 


12. [mi - ib T &a?] tanaki(B) KUDUB.DUB.BU SUB.SUB(di) 

13. . . -su nis ini-ma m Sanitu minutu(tu) an-ni-tu 

14 . -su DIMS ID $am A N.IRIM u riksu tapatar(ar) 

15 .- bu-ma ina sumi suati tudammik(ik) 

16. . . .. ana damikti(ti) tazakar(ar) 

17 ... 

The principal contents of No. 40 (K 2567) consist of four¬ 
teen lines of directions for ceremonies. These were preceded 
by a prayer, of which only a few traces of signs remain. Bezold 
{Catalogue , p. 454) suggests that this fragment belongs to K 2487 
(= No. 2, see above, p. 18). The character of the writing on 
both tablets is very similar. 


























io6 


PRAYERS TO DEITIES 


8. For the explanation of the sign-group as 

= irrit mnni % ^Jensen, ZAI , p.308 {cf. Brunnow, List, no. 6767). 
What meaning attaches to the group in the present passage is 
not clear. 

12. The suggested restoration of the beginning of this line 
is based on No. 8, 1. 21 ( cf\ supra , p. 42 f.). 


No. 41. 

Transliteration. 


1. 

2. [DU.DU BI] lu ina KISDA lu ina SA.NA [ipus(us)] 


3 . sarru ni - mi - ki ba - nu - u ta - sim - ti 

4 . m ilu Assur-ban-apli etc . 


In No. 41 (K 7916) the first line is probably to be restored 
as the colophon-line INIMJNIMMA SU IL,LA etc. L. 3 gives 
the catch-line for the next tablet. 


No. 42. 

Transliteration. 


Obv. 

I. 


. 2. na -. 3. kul-lat . 

. 4- u-tag-ga(?)- . 5 . -ri- ki - . 

. 6. ta-ta-na-ru -. 7. a-na ri-i- . 

.8. sak-?ia-ta .9. sa ZIG.GIR-ka . 

. 10. a-lik bar-ra-ni . 11. la DIM.KU la 

ir -.1 2. sa pak-du pi- .13. dannu 

ina dan-na- . 14. i-hd mun-nap -. 

15. ina kari dan-na .16. mu-sap-sik UD . 

. 17. ina pi-ka ki- . 18. sa la . 

. 19. a-zu- . 


Rev. 

20 . 


.21. ul- . 21 

23. ilu NlN.A.KU.KUD.[DU] . 


faidutu-ka 

































WHOSE NAMES ARE NOT PRESERVED. 


107 


24. INIM.INIM.MA SU [ILXA] . 

25. inu(?)-ma ina KISDA inu(?) . 

26. siptu llu Marduk btht rabu .. . 

27. ikal m llu Assur-ban-[apli] etc . 

No. 42 (K 3221) preserves part of the left side of a large 
tablet, about four lines being missing from the beginning of the 
Obverse. L. 25 gives an unusual form of one of the common 
colophon-lines ( see above, p. 71). 


No. 43. 

Transliteration. 

1.. -bn- .2. llu Marduk . 

3. [Haiti ]* 1 .4. Haiti * 1 ..5. Haiti * 1 

a,-sib .6. Uu A-nim zlu Bil .7. ana - 

ku arad-ki . 

8. [INI 3 fJ.INIM.MA SU [ILXA] .. 


The end of a prayer to a goddess has been preserved by 
No. 43 (K 13355 )- 


No. 44. 

Transliteration. 


1. iht NIN . 

2. [INIMJNIMJ.MA SU IL.[LA] ..... . . . ..... . . . . 

3. -tu an-na .4. 

KU * 1 . 5. -nu . 

6 ... 

No. 44 (K 14210) contains traces of a prayer and three 
lines of directions for ceremonies. 
























io8 


PRAYERS TO DEITIES 


No. 45. 

Transliteration. 

Obv. 

i. -ti .2. -ha lu- 

. 3. -um tak-bu-u llu Samai . 

4- [INIM.INIMJ.MA Ju IlZa a « .' 

5 . 

Rev. 

6 .- ra-ka .7. -ma 


ci-na .8. -na si-it-. 

g . ba-la-tu .io. 

-bil . 


The fragment No. 45 (82—3—23, 119) contains traces of 
prayers; so little however has been preserved that it is impos¬ 
sible to decide with certainty which side is the Obverse of the 
tablet. 

















io9 


Section V. 

Prayers to Astral Deities. 

Section V contains prayers to certain stars, which are not 
regarded as inanimate, but are personified as deities. This per¬ 
sonification of the stars and planets is not surprising, for there 
are not lacking proofs that the greater gods, even when ad¬ 
dressed by name in prayer, were regarded as astral powers. 
To mention three instances in the present collection of texts, 
in No. 19, 1 . 17 f. the god Bil is selected from “the multitude 
of the stars of heaven” to receive a gift, while in No. 6, 1 . 77 f. 
the goddess Bau, and in No. 7, 1 . 15 £ the goddess Bilit ill , are 
sought by the suppliant among the stars. Moreover the astral 
deities here addressed are invoked in terms as exalted as those 
employed in prayers to the greater gods, and in No. 50, if my 
restoration of the passage is correct, the fixed star Sibziana is 
even credited with the creation of mankind. 

The majority of the tablets in this section are of the larger 
class, and contained, when complete, several prayers, inter¬ 
spersed in some cases with directions for ceremonies. 


No. 46. 

Transliteration. 


1.- gu - u ify - tu - u 

2. . . . .. -Kb a - du - nr - ma 

3.- [ka] rabiti(ti) ub - la 

4. . . ... .. Km - feu - ru - ka - ma 

5. [ag - gu lib - ba - ka] li - nu - fya 







no 


PRAYERS TO ASTRAL DEITIES, 


6. -[ka ra-bu]-u 1 ta-ai-ra-tu-ka kab-ta-a-tum 

. . -si lib-sci-nim-ma 

8. [dd - lil ilu - ti - rabzti(ti) _ hid - ltd 


g. IN1MJNIM.[MA SU IL].LA kakkabu Mustabarrii-mu- 

tann(a-nu).KAN 

10. DUDU BI [hi ina KISDA] lu ina SA.NA ipus(us) 

11. sipiu ilu Nirgal bil . kakkabu ti-ifo saini-i u 


irsitim(tim) 

12. sa-ni-ku . m . — ti bu—kur KU»RU-SAR 

13. ma-am-lu gii-ma-lum pa-ki-du gi-mir KlRRUD.AZAG.GA 

14. i - lit - ti ilu A - nim viaru ris - tu - u 

13. Jja - lip sa - him - via - ti sa lit - bn - - ri - rz 

16. dan - dan - ot kit - tu - du bil a - ba - ti 

17. &z - kin tab - ti ~ [i] mu - sa - a$ - /£z - li - i - ti 


18. sarrn tarn - fya - /rz ir?] - su ik - du la pa - du - 11 

j g. [mu-hal-likr] za-ai-ri 

.. [sal?]-ba-bu muk-tab-lum 

. . -tu karrddu 

22 . 

.. 

The upper portion of No. 46 (K11153 + Rm 582) con¬ 
tains the end of a prayer to the kakkaiu Mustabarm-mutanu , 2 
addressed as a male deity, which, after the double colophon 
(1. 9 f.), is followed by a prayer to Nirgal , who is invoked as 
follows: — 

11. O Nirgal , lord of. Pisu, near to heaven and earth! 

12. Who harasses the.. the first-born of KU.TUSARX 

13. The strong, the perfect, who careth for the whole of the 

Kirrud-azaga ! 

14. The offspring of Anu, the first-born son! 

15. Who is clad with brightness, who is clothed with light! 

16. The mighty, the valiant, the lord of power! 

.17. Who giveth the victory, who establisheth strength! 


1 A ra-bu-u. 

2 One of the seven names of the planet Mercury, see Jensen, Kosmologie 
p. 120 f. 














PRAYER TO THE MUSTABARRtf-MtfTANU. 


111 


18. King of the battle, the wise, the courageous, the invincible! 


19. ..who destroyeth the foe! 

20 .the impetuous, the warrior! 

21 ...the hero! 


9. That the kak 7 eabu NI-BAT-a-nu is phonetically written 
kakkahu M U M a b arr u-mutanu, cf. Brunnow, List, no. 5347, and Jensen, 
Kosmologie , p.119. 

12. For the identification of -azaga with -azaga, 
and the explanation of the latter as “the lordly chamber” of 
the Lower World, see Jensen, op. tit., p. 234 f. 

15. The word salmnmatu expresses the idea of light viewed 
as an object of terror (Jensen, op. tit., p. 155). 

19. This line is restored from I R 17, 1 . 8 where Ninib is 
described as mu-kal-lik za-ya-a-ri. Several of the epithets in 
this prayer are to be found in AssumasirpaPs dedication. 


No. 47. 

Transliteration. 


I.-Z I ' ll - . 2. 

lim - nu - . 3 . KA.LU.BI.DA 

. 4. -na-ku-nn balatu ba-a-ni 5. 


dd-li-li-ku-nu lud-lnl 


6. [.INIM.INIM.MA 

SU ILJ.LA 

Mul-muLKIB 

7. [DU.DU BI lu 

V 

in a KISDA lu] ina 

SA .NA ipus(us) 


8 .... gaS - ru - u - ti 

9 ... SU 1 L.LA KAN . 


10. [ikal ilu Assur-ban]-apli etc. 

The end of a prayer has been preserved by No. 47 (K8808). 

In 1 . 6 the signs ctfHf- «=W- I have taken as the Mul- 
mul-stax {cf. Jensen, Kosmologie , p. 152) and not as the plural 
of kakkabu {see No. 8, 1 . 22), though the suffix in dd-li-li-ku-nu 
suggests that the prayer is addressed to more than one deity. 















112 


PRAYERS TO ASTRAL DEITIES. 


The tablet apparently formed one of a series, part of the title 
of which is contained by 1. 9. 


No. 48. 

Transliteration. 

Obv. 


I. . . 

. in-si 4. 

. -ni-ti 

2. . 

. . -sa 

5 - • 

. . -a-ti 3. . 

. -a-ti 

6. . . . 

. -ri 9. . 

-li-ku 

7 - - 

. -su 

10. , 

. MIN 8. . 

. . - ya 

ii. . . 

.-ziz 14. . 

. siz 

12. . 

.... 

. . . 

. . - si 13. . 

.... 

Rev. 








15. ki- 


. 

. • . 

. 

, . . . 


.... 


16. INIM.INIM.MA SU IL.LA Mul-mul.KAN 


17. Hptu bilu Sur-bu-u sa ina iami-i sii-lufr-fyn-su illu 

18. VIII-m par-su Bit sa-la-mi-i ikal m llu Assur-ban-apli etc. 

According to the first line of the colophon (1.18), No. 48 
(K 8116) forms the eighth part of a composition entitled the 
Bit sa-la-mi-i (cf. Bezold, ZA V, p. 112 and Catalogue , p. 896). 
The Obverse of No. 48 preserves a few ends of lines from the 
beginning of the tablet, the Reverse the end of a prayer to the 
Mulmul- star. According to the catch-line the next part of the 
composition commenced with the words: “0 mighty lord, whose 
.is brilliant in heaven!” 

18. With the composition entitled the Bit salami may be 
compared the incantations that commence siptu bit nu-ru (see 
above, p. 53), and the Series Bit nmki (supra, pp. 14 ff.). The 
bit rim-ki and the bit sa-la-mi-i are mentioned together in the 
letter K 168, 1. 13 (cf. Lehmann, Sama'ssmnukin, Pt. II, p. 76 and 
pi. XLV). 






















PRAYERS TO THE STARS MULMTJL AND KAK.SI.DI. 


113 


No. 49. 


Obv. 

I. 

-mar 4. . . . 

6 . 

. -li-li 9. 

-pu(?) ya-a-si 
- ru-sa-a-ti 13. 
ina zumri-ya 

16. 

18. 


Transliteration. 


2.. .-k-ti 3. 

. . . a-ti 5. ilani pl ilu Igigi 

ta-ab-tu 7... -ai-ti 8. 


. . -I11 at-mu-ii-a 10. ... 

11 . -ni u-mi-sam 12 .. . 

. -u lim-nu-ti 14 . -u 

15 . [sar]-ra-tum rabilum(tum) 

. . . . ka-ru-bu 17 .- ma - it 

. . . . - si - la - kn 19 . ri- si - ka 


20. [INIMJN 1 M.MA SU IL.LA kakltabu KAK]. SI.DLKAN 


21 ... -iur . 

Rev. 

22. .. 23. i-mu-ki 24. 

. -ru-ti 25. ra-sub-bu 26. 

-so- an-nit 27. u isatu 28. 

abni £ l 29.. sami-i 30. [mu-sai]- 

az-nin nub$u 31. .. ba-ra-ar-ra 32. 

. il - In sirn 33. &a - ra - dr - [ra] 

The Obverse of No. 49 (D.T. 65) preserves part of a prayer 
to the star KAK.SI.DI (cf. Jensen, Kosmologie , p. 49 if., etc.), 
addressed as a male deity. This prayer is followed by a second, 
which is continued on the Reverse of the tablet. 


No. 50. 

Transliteration. 

Obv. 

1. [siptu kakkabu SIB. ZLA N. NA] . 

2. [mu - na - kir] ..'. 

3. [ina samt-i ] .. 

4. [kan - su mab - ra - ka?] .. 

5. [ilani* l rabitii* l i - sal - lu - ka - ma?] ...... 

6. [ina ba - li - ka tlu A - nim] .. 

7. ilu Bil ma - [li - ku?] . 

Q 













































PRAYERS TO ASTRAL DEITIES. 


I 14 

8. ilu Rammanu asarid sami-i u irsitim(tzm) ul . 

9. ina ki - bit - kd 1 izzakara(ra) ti - [ni - si - i - ti ?] 2 

10. si - si - ma itti - ka^ ilani^ £ rabzitzB li ~ #2" - [%uj 

11. 4^ z * - n i di - zVz purussa - #2 purus (us) 

12. a - na - ku arad - kci m A$$ur - ban - *2^/2 war Hi - .fzz 

13. ilu - * 7 “& - tor - ,$* ilu As - izz - ri - i - tfo 

14. ina lunmn Uu atali ilu Sin sa ina arfoi umi KAN 

isakna(na) 

15. ina lumun idati fl ITIMIS UtnniU * 1 la tabati* l 

16. sa ina ikalli - ya u mati - yh ibasa - a 

17 m ds - sum it - pis limutti(ti) mursu la tabu ar - ni 

18. kil-la-ti foi-ti-ii sa ina zumri-ya . 

19. ikimmu lim-nu sa itti-ya rak-su-ma u-safo- . 

20. am - ban - ka fo - sa - pi - [ka] 

2 1. nis kati - ya mu - fyiir si - mi las - / 7 z - #7 

22. pu - sur kis - pi - ya pu - *2 - J2 ^2 - ta - ti - />#7 

23. $UnnasiU(ib) minima lim-nu sa ana na-kas napisti-ya illika[(kaj] 

24. ilu sidu damku lu ka - ai - an ina rzsi - ya 

25. ilu ilu isiar amzluti sa - li - mu li - zr - sfo - nz 

Rev. 

26. ina kibit - ka lu - fob - lui 

27. ludlul - ka nar - bi - ka lu - sa - pi 6 

28. JNIMJNhVLMA Si/ IL.LA kakkabu SIB ZLAN.NA.KAN 

29. kakkabu KAKSI.DI ilu NINIB a-M-rid ilani* l rabiiti* l 

No. 50 (K 2801 + K 9490) is a comparatively small tablet 
inscribed for AsSurbanipal with a prayer to be recited on the 
occasion of an eclipse of the Moon. The prayer is evidently 
extracted from one of the larger compositions, which contain 
several prayers and ceremonial sections. Such a text, similar 
in size to Nos. 12, 21, and 22, must have been the tablet of 
which the duplicates A and B are parts. These two fragments 
do not join but from the style of the writing and character of 
the clay it may be assumed that they are parts of the same 


1 A ina &bit-ka m 2 Restored from the similar expression in No. 19, 1 . 13. 

3 A it'[ti-ka], 4 For l.H ^ reads:. -zi . 5 For 

1. 23 B reads: ii-Sur- . 6 After 1 . 27 B ceases to be a duplicate 

and reads: | 3? iptu kakhabu .. . j ., | ki-ma 













PRAYER TO SIBZIANA. 


I 15 

tablet. The prayer in the present text, however, was not ex¬ 
tracted from the original of A and B, for the incantation that 

follows in B commences IHF- and does not agree with 

the catch-line of No. 50. The prayer is inscribed to the star 
Sibziana ,* addressed as a male deity, and invoked in II. 1—9 in 
somewhat extravagant terms. The object of the prayer is to 
induce Sibziana to remove the evil spells, bewitchments, pos¬ 
session by spectres etc. y that have followed in the train of the 
lunar eclipse. The prayer reads as follows. 

Translation. 

1. O Sibziana .2. Thou that changest the. 

3. In the heavens.4. They bow down before thee. 

5. The great gods beseech thee and. 

6. Without thee Anu .7. Bil the arbiter. 

8. Ramman the prince of heaven and earth. 

9. At thy command mankind was named! 1 2 * 

10. Give thou the word and with thee let the great gods stand! 

11. Give thou my judgement, make my decision! 

12. I, thy servant, Assurbanipal , the son of his god, 

13. Whose god is Assnr , whose goddess is Assuritu , 

14. In the evil of the eclipse of the moon which in the month 

on the day ( s # aoe ) has taken place, 

15. In the evil of the powers, of the portents, evil and not good, 

16. Which are in my palace and my land, 

17. Because of the evil magic, the disease that is not good, 

the iniquity, 

18. The transgression, the sin that is in my body.. 

19. [Because of] the evil spectre that is bound to me and.. 

20. Have petitioned thee, I have glorified thee! 

21. The raising of my hand accept! Hearken to my prayer! 

22. Free me from my bewitchment! Loosen my sin! 

1 For the identification of Sibziana with Regnlus, and the explanation of 
the name as 4 ‘the true shepherd of heaven” {Rfu kznu Sa Sami), see Jensen, ZA I, 
p. 266, and Kosmologie, pp. 36 f., 48 f. etc . 

2 L e+ created. It is possible that should be rendered by the 

Qal, not theNifal, of zakaru* Sumu being understood; in either case the meaning 

of the line remains the same. 

Q2 










116 PRAYERS TO ASTRAL DEITIES. 

23. Let there be torn away whatsoever evil may come to cut 

off my life! 

24. May the favourable sidu be ever at my head! 

25- May the god, the goddess of mankind grant me favour! 

26. At thy command let me live! 

27. Let me bow down and extol thy greatness! 

The catch-line for the next tablet reads: “Thou, O KAK.SI.D 1 
art Niniby the prince of the great gods!” This line is discussed 
by Jensen ( Kosmologie , pp. 53 f., 150), Bezold having published 
the fragment K 9490 (cf. ZA III, p. 250), which contains the 
conclusion of the text. 


No. 51. 

Transliteration. 


1. 2. . 3. -pal 

ar - sa - . 4. amilutu . 

5. -ma . ..6. [as]-bat subata(?)-ka u- . 


.7. gi-rnil balati Hi -.8. dalili-ka . 

^^INIWLINIM.MA SU ILLA ****"[S 1 B.ZLAN.NA.KAN] 

10. AG.AG BI ana pan kakkaitt SIB.ZI.AN.NA II. 

11. [SA.NA] bnrasi tasakan(an) KAS.SAG tanaki(ki) siptu an - 


. 

12 . -za-za afyarrikanu (?) itti(?) btnu 

13 . samni surmimi pusus .... 

14 . SI^IGI.MAN.GIRI wNAM. . . . 

15 . [tasakan?](an) ina ulsi(?) . . . . 

16 . lim - nu id ... . 

17 . 


In No. 51 (K 8190) the colophon-line ( 1 . 9) seems to refer 
to two prayers, of which the end of the second has been pre¬ 
served. At 1 . 10 a ceremonial section of seven lines commences, 
prescribing the offering of incense and the pouring out of a 
libation before Sibziana . LI. 12 ff. contain certain rites to be 
performed with various plants and woods, including anointing 
with the oil of snrminu- wood. 



























PRAYERS TO SIBZIANA. 


117 


No. 52. 

Transliteration, 

1. *. 2. ina an-ni-ka hi-nim . 

3. AG.AG BI ana pan kakkab « SIB.[ZLAN.NA] . 7 . 

4. lu ina KISDA lu ina SA.NA III sa?iitu mmtu[(nuj] 

5. ~siptu sarrii ilani * 1 gas-ru-u-ti sa nap-fyar ma-a-ti su-pit-u 

tlu IMINA.Bl at-tu-nu-ma 

6. ikal nl ilu Assur-[ban]-apli etc . 

Part of the last line of a prayer has been preserved by 
No. 52 (K 6395 + K 10138), followed by a rubric of two lines 
which presents a variant form of a common ceremonial direc¬ 
tion. Elsewhere the injunction DU.DU BI lu ina KISDA lu 
ina SA.NA ipus follows the colophon-line INIMJNIM.MA SO 
IL.LA etc . In the present tablet, however, it is directly pre¬ 
ceded by the incantation, and is expanded so as to form two 
lines. It is possible that nothing followed the name of the star 
in 1 . 3. In that case 1. 4 would not commence a new sentence, 
but would run on without a break: “Do the following. Before 
Sibziana either ina KISDA or ina SA.NA three times recite 
(the incantation)”. 1 

The catch-line (I. 5) reads: “O king of the mighty gods 
of all the land! Powerful, 0 Seven-fold one, are ye!” While 

citing the passages in which the ^ is found, E. T. 

Harper (Beitrage zur Assyr Bd. H, Hft. 2 (1892) p. 436), has 
attempted to distinguish its use as applied to a single divinity 
from those instances in which the context shows a plurality ot 
deities are referred to. In 1 . 5 of No. 52, however, we have a 
remarkable instance of the combination of sing, and plur. with 
reference to the ilu IMINA.BI the plur. of the pers. pron. occurring 
by the side of same and supu . There is no doubt, therefore, 

that the name ^ was applied to a group of gods 
who were so closely connected, that, though addressed in the 
plural, they could in the same sentence be regarded as form¬ 
ing a single personality. 


1 See above p. 71 f. 






Section VI. 


Prayers against the evils attending 
an eclipse of the Moon. 

The sixth and final Section might be more strictly termed 
an appendix, for the texts it contains are only indirectly con¬ 
nected with the series of tablets classified under Sections I—V. 
Throughout these five sections it will be observed that several 
of the prayers contain the formula, discussed on pp. 7 ff., in 
which it is stated that the prayer is offered in consequence of 
certain evils that have followed in the train of a lunar eclipse. 
The formula is to be found in No. 1, 11 . 1—28, a prayer to Sin , 
and 11 . 36 — 52, a prayer to Tasmitu , in No. 4, 11 . 9 —22, a prayer 
to Bavikina, and 11 . 24—50, a prayer to Bdu , in the concluding 
prayer of No. 6, according to the duplicate F, in No. 7, 11 . 9—33, 
a prayer to the goddess Bilit Hi, and 11 . 34—63, a prayer to 
Is&ara, in No. 19, II. 1—33, a prayer to Bil, in the prayer to 
Nirgal in No. 27, according to the duplicate A, and in No. 50, 
11 . 1—28, a prayer to Sibziana . It is not, however, confined to 
the group of texts collected in Sections I—V, but is of some¬ 
what common occurrence in various series and classes of prayers. 
In Section VI, therefore, I have collected those tablets and 
fragments in which I have come across the formula. The list, 
however, makes no preteiice of being exhaustive, for it is pro¬ 
bable that the eclipse-formula is contained by other tablets 
throughout the collections from Kouyunjik. 



PRAYER TO lA, SAMAS, AND MARDUK. 119 

No. 53. 

Transliteration. 

Obv. 

1 .... 

2 . gas (?)-ru . 

3. abkal kis-Sa-ti ilu Marduk sal-ba-[bu bil?] I.TUR.RA 

4. ilu l-a Uu Samas u ilu Marduk ya-a-si ru-sa-nim-ma 

5. ina an - ni - ku - mi i - sa - rti - tii lul - lik 

6. llu Samas ikimmu mu-pal-li-fyi sd is-iu u-mi ma--du-ti 

7* arki - ya rak - su - ma la muppaiiru(ru) 

8. ina kal u-mi iksus(?)-an-ni ina kdl musi up-ia-na-lafy-an-ni 

9. ri-du-su usizizu(zu) lubusiu(P) ili-ya uz-za-na-ka-pu 

10. pani - ya i - - su - u ini pl - ya uz-za-na-kup 

11. ur - ka - ya tib - ba - hi siriP - ya i-sam-ma-mn 


12. kal pag - ri - ya ztb - ba - & 

13. hi i - kim - mu kim - /z - ya z/ sa - la - ti - 

14. lu i - kim - mu sa ina di - ik - ti di - ku 

15. In ikimmu GUR TAP.PI DU an-nu-u su~u an-nu-u .-izz 

Rev. 


16. llu Samas ina pdni-ka is-ti- -sii-ma lubustp 1 ana lit-bu-si-su 

misiru ana kabti (?) 

17. misiru ana kabli-su SU.A.RU.LA mi * 1 ana sati-su 

x8. z-silj-su SA.KASKAL addin-su 

iq. a - na i - rib lln Samsi(si) HI - lik 

20. tlu N 1 .DU.nI DU.GAL sa irsitim(tim) lu-pa-kid 

21. llu NI.DU.NI DU.GAL sa irsitinTfiim) masartu-su li-dan-nin 

22. li - is - s/5 i^isigaru nam - sa - ki - su - 

23. tlu Samas ina ki-bi-ti-ka sir-ii sa [ul] uttakkaru(ru) 

24. ina lumun tlu atali llu Sin sa ina arfyipiilani umi pulani isakna(na) 

25. lumun idati pl ITI.MIS limniti* l la tabaii pl 

26. sa ina ikalli - ya u mati - ya ibasd - a 


27. [ina] 

ki-bit abkalli 

Uani * 1 iln Marduk 

ina zumri-ya ..... 




. -kis-su 

28. . . . . 


ipparasu(su) 

ina zumri-ya . 




.- pal-Su 

29. 

. lu-ta-mi napsat tlu I-a 


30. 

pi 



3 i. 


















I 20 


PRAYERS AGAINST THE EVILS 


No. 53 (K 3859 + Sm. 383) preserves the bottom portion 
of a tablet and contains a prayer to la, Santas , and Marduk , 
of which both the beginning* and end are missing. The sup¬ 
pliant states that he is praying after an eclipse of the Moon, 
and he implores these three deities to rescue him from the 
clutches of a spectre, by whom he is continually haunted. What 
remains of the Obverse commences as follows: — 

3. O arbiter of the world, Marduk, the mighty, the lord of Itura ! 

4. O la , SamaS , and Marduk deliver me, 

5. And through your mercy let me come to prosperity! 

6. O Samas , the spectre that striketh fear, that for many days 

7. Has been bound on my back, and is not loosed, 

8. Through the whole day hath.me, through the whole 

night hath stricken me with terror! 

The suppliant then describes the ways in which he is 
tormented by the spectre, who defiles him and attacks his face, 
his eyes, his back, his flesh and his whole body. On the Re¬ 
verse of the tablet he recounts to Samas how he has tried to 
appease and to restrain his tormentor. Apparently his efforts 
have met with no success for he now turns to the Sun-god for 
relief, which he prays he may receive through his mighty com¬ 
mand that is not altered, and through the command of Marduk , 
“the arbiter of the gods”. 

10. After the form uz-za-na-ka-pu in 1 . 9 one might per¬ 
haps assign to in uz-za-na~> 5 ^ J the new value kap . 

18. The character is not quite accurately rendered 

on pi. 68, for the small perpendicular wedge should project 
slightly above the long horizontal one. Elsewhere the forms 
of this character are somewhat various. While the beginning 

of the sign remains constant, together with the small 

perpendicular wedge (|) ? the number and position of the small 
diagonal wedges above the long horizontal line vary conside¬ 
rably. In K 2971, Col. Ill, 1 . 22 three wedges (X^) occur 
above the horizontal line (not two as in IV R 2 56, 1 . 55 < 5 ), in V 
R 18, 1 . 35 f. (as corrected in ZK I, p. 349) two wedges only 

occur, and in VRn, 1 . lof. four wedges (^) are to be found, 




ATTENDING AN ECLIPSE OF THE MOON. 


121 


which in the duplicate K 4410 are written In all these 
passages, however, only one diagonal wedge is written below 
the long horizontal wedge. 

23. In the transliteration before the sign -V I have restored 
^, which has been apparently omitted by the scribe in error. 


Ho. 54. 

Transliteration. 

1. [ana-ku] pul ami apil pulani sd iln-su pulanu ilu [istar-su 

puldniiu m(iu m)] 

2. [ina] lumnn ilu aiali ilu Sin sd ina arj}i pulani iimi pulani 

[isakna(na)] 

3. [ina] lumun iddii pl ITLMIS limniti * 1 [Id tdbdii$ l ] 

4. [sd] ina ikalli - yd u mdti - yd [ibasd - a] 

5. [ina] kibit - ka kit - ti lu - [ub - lut] 

6. [lu - us] - lim « ma lu ~ us - tam - mar [ilu - ut - ka] 

7. [2 - ma] u - sa - am - ma - ru lu - [uk - sii - ud] 

8 . hit - turn . 

9 . [da miktim] (tim) .. 

10. 

No. 54 (Sm. 512) is a fragment from the centre of a prayer, 
and, in addition to the eclipse-formula, contains some of the 
common petitions for life, success, etc . LL 8 and 9 are possibly 
to be restored according to No. 9, 1 . 13!. 


No. 55. 

Transliteration. 

1 .2. ana-[ku m ]As$ur-ban-apli ilu BAR . 

. . . . . 3. ina lumun ilu atali tlu Sin Sa ina arlpi [ umi 
KAN isakna(na)] 4. ina lumun iddti^ ITLMIS [limniti * 1 Id tdbdii* l ] 
5. sd ina ikalli - yd u mdti - yd ibasd - [a] . 












122 


PRAYERS AGAINST THE EVILS 


Part of a prayer of Ashurbanipal has been preserved by 
No. 55 (K 6792). The fragment is from the left side of one 
of the class of smaller tablets. 


No. 56. 

Transliteration. 


1. sa . 

2. ilu Samas ilu . 

3. mdru . 

4. ik - ka - ru ki - . 

5. mu - sa - ri in -. 

6. z - ti - ir . 

7. a-na-kit m Assur-[ba?i-apli] . 

8. sa ilu - su [Assur tlu is - tar - su tlu As - su - ri - i - tu] 

9. ina lumun ilu [atali ilu Sin sa ina arfyi itmi KAN isakna(na)] 

10. [ina] lumun idati[* l 1 TLMIS limniti* l Id tdbati* l ] 

11. [sa ina] ikalli[-ya u mati-ya ibasa-a] 

Like the preceding fragment No. 56 (K 2810) contains part 
of a prayer written for Ashurbanipal. The tablet is one of the 
smaller kind and is written in somewhat coarse characters; what 
has been preserved of the Reverse is uninscribed. 


No. 57. 

Transliteration. 

Obv. 

1. 

2. llu Is-Jia-ra ummu ri-[mi-ni-tum sd nisi * 1 .. 

3. ana-ku pnlanu apil pul dm sa ilu-su [pulanu xlu istar-su pula - 

nitum(tum)] 

4. ma lumun llu atali llu Sin sa [ina arfai pulani umi puldni isak - 

?iafna)] 

5. lumun iddti * 1 ITL[M 1 S limniti * 1 Id tdbati* 1 ] 

6. sa ina ikalli - yd u [mdti - yd ibasd - a] 













ATTENDING AN ECLIPSE OF THE MOON. 


123 


7 . a - na su - a - ti asfyur - ki al - [si - hi] . 

8. as - sum gi - mil dum - ki . 

9. as - ruk - ki si - rik . 

10. za - ka - a da - as - pa ku - ru - [un - na] . 

11. 21 - ma - kir - ki mu - . 

1 2. napistifii) ub - lak - ki . 

13. - /ja - ra ma sap -. 

14. - lit matati ina sap - . 

15. dup - pi - ri mimma . 

16. mimma lim - nu . 

ij.su- .. 18. 

Rev. 

19.. - mi -. 20 . 

21. 22. 

The commencement of No. 57 (K 9909) is very similar to 
the end of the Reverse of No. 7. Each tablet is addressed to 
Isfaara, No. 57, 11 . 2 and 4 —7 corresponding to No. 7, 11 . 59— 62. 
L. 63 of No. 7, however, does not agree with 1 . 8 of No. 57, 
so that the texts, through closely parallel, are apparently not 
duplicates. 


No. 58 . 


Transliteration. 


Obv. 

1. . mu-sim simd 0 l 2 .- su-u 

nu&su 3. * l ta-pa-kzd 4. hrn-na-ti 

sh-nl-ma 5. [ana-ku pulanu apil] puldni sa ilu- 

su pulanu tlu istar-su pulanitum(tum) 6. [ina lumun llu atali zlu Sin 
sa ina arfyi pulani] umi pulani isakna(na) 7. [lumun idaii 

ITLMlS limnili* l la tabdti$ l sa ina] ikalli-ya u mati-a ibasa-a 

8.. pa-sa-su 9.. ... .-an- . 

10. . . .. -ka .. .. na 

.12. &u . 


13 .. 

Rev. 

14 .15 ... - st- ru sit - lub ~ & 

16 . -mi ilani** mu-tdl-lum 17.. 

mu-na-mir uk-li 18 . - ki mu - ris l.TUR.RA 







































124 


PRAYERS AGAINST THE EVILS 


To judge from the thickness of the tablet, No. 58 (K 6644) 
may possibly have contained two columns on either side. In 
that case, the beginning of Col. II and the end of Col. Ill have 
been preserved, inscribed with portions of two separate incan¬ 
tations. 


No. 59. 

Transliteration. 


1 . $ l ina hal . 

2 . -ni sa iprd 1 DUB . 

3 . sadand l (ni) facirrani * 1 NUN . 

4 . Ml ilatd 1 saplatiBUR . 

5 . -u tas-lit . 

6 . Ml riduti(ti) . 

7 . ar-ni u ma-mit ildni^ . 

8 . tlu Samas kaspu fourasu nu -. 

9 . [kam]~sa~hi a-na-kar ir- . 

10 . lit-ba-lu . 

11 .- ti-ka rabiii(ti) sa id uttakkam(ni) 


12. [ina lumun] llu atali zlu Sin sa ina arfyi pulani [icmi pnldni 

isakna(na)] 

13. [lumun idati] pl 1 TLMIS [limnitd 1 la tab aid 1 ] 


14. [sa ina ikalli]-ya u mati-ya [ibasa~a) 

15 . -yd Us -. 

16 . -li-na-an-ni ma-fpi (?)- . 

17 . mar ili-su in - an - na - . 

18 . llu Santas tlu Rammanu u llu Marduk . 

19 . -tab-ba-la-ka la -. 

20 . rzk ~ ku - li . 

21 . amUu mitu la itur .. 

22 . iiibu .. . . . 


The upper portion of a tablet has been preserved by 
No. 59 (K 7978), consisting of a heading or introduction of 
three lines, and the beginning of an incantation to a male deity. 









































ATTENDING AN ECLIPSE OF THE MOON. 


125 


No. 60 . 

Transliteration. 

Obv. 

1. ..* . . . . 

2. [LUGAL?] BI KA.TAR.ZU GA.AN.SjT TTr-[riiTs~u]-u 

dd-[H-li-ka lud-lul?] 

3. ft anctku amUu MU.MU aradka dalilika ludhd 

4. IN 1 M.INIM.MA KI llu Samas.KAN mas-?nas limnu(nu) 

5. sipiu tlu Samas daian sami-i u irsitim(tim) la-it irsiti(ti) ra - 

pastim(tim) 

6. Mhi pi-tu-u uz-ni na-ram itu Bil 

7. daianu sirn sa ki-bit-su la ut-tak-ka-ru 

8. an-na-su Hit ma~am-man la i-nu-u 

g. Mlu at-ta-ma sur-bat a-mat-ka 

10, ki-bit-ka ul im-maS-si ut-nin-ka til is-sa-na-an 

11. kima llu A-nim abu-ka ki-bit-ka si-rat 

Rev. 


1 2 . I l -ka Su-tu-rat a-mat-ka 

13 . Sa i - ma - ka ra - as - bu 

14 . [i] - mu - ki siratH 1 at-ta . . . . 

15 . -di-ri-ka sa sit-mu-ru la sa- . 

16 . amd 0 l SI.MIS lim-Jju-ru- . 

17 . -mat lik-ru-bu- . 

18 .. ,-ri NI.RUS lizziza(za) .. 


ig. [ina lumun tlu ]atali Sin sa ina arfaipulaniumipulaniisakna[(na)] 

20. [lumun idatd 1 ] IT 1 .MIS limniti * 1 la tabatip 2 ] 

21. [sa ina ikalli]-ya mati-ya ibasa-[a] 

22. -its su-ut-li-ma-am-ma [damikiim](tim) 


No. 60 (K 3463) consists of the lower portion of a tablet 
After three colophon-lines there follows a prayer to Samas , 
which is continued on the Reverse of the tablet. The prayer 
opens with the following invocation:— 

v 

5. O Samas, judge of heaven and earth, that burnest the broad 

earth! 

6. O Lord, that openest the ear, the darling of Bill 

7. Exalted judge, whose command is not altered, 


















126 


PRAYERS AGAINST THE EVILS 


8. Whose mercy no god has ever annulled! 

9. A lord art thou, and mighty is thy word! 

10. Thy command is not forgotten, thy intercession is unequalled! 

11. Like Ann, thy father, thy word is exalted! 

On the Reverse of the tablet, which is somewhat broken, 
the suppliant continues his invocation of the god, and in 11. 19 ff. 
states the occasion of the prayer. 

2. The second half of this line is probably a Semitic trans¬ 
lation of the Sumero-Akkadian phrases with which it commences. 
For my conjectural restoration, cf. Brunnow, List, no. 561, and 
Zimmern, Busspsalmen , p. 73. 


No. 61 . 

Transliteration. 


2.- sat - ki . 

3. /. . . . . INJTI sik-nat matati nu - . 

4. [Ill] saniiu kibi - ma limuttu . 

5. [siptu] mar at llu A-nim sa sami-i . 

6 . [bi] - nu - ut tamti ta - ma - ti rapsdti(ti) 

7 ptujjl - nim a - bu - ni ib - na - na - si - [ma?] 

8. [samu]~u u irsitim(tim)* ib-ba-nu-ii it-ti-[ni] 

9. [u] ma - mi - tu ib - ba - ni it - ti - ni - [ma?] 

10. [at]-ti ma-mit SA.LA 2 kar * aiu GU.ZI u ^ u passuru 

11. [ma umi] ll KAN umi Vll KAN itmi ”KN KAN um nu-bat(?)-ti 

um AB.AB umi XIlH 

12. [umi yBK] KAN bubbulum um rim-ki um limutti 3 umi XXX^^ 

I 3* [a-na] nap-sat ill u sarri ka-ti at-ta-ra-[am?] 
14. [ni] - is Haiti * 1 rabuti* l az - za - [kar?] 

15’ [a~na] mudii - u la mudii - u at - ta - . 

16. [*ma lumun] llu atali llu Sin sa ina arfyi pulani umi pulani 

isakna[(na)] 


1 A irsititm(tum). 2 After A reads in smaller characters: £ it-ti. 

3 A higalli. * A apparently omits 1 . 16, reading in its place: lumun idatit 1 
ITJ.MIS hmnitit’l [id idbatifi] J [$a ma ikctlli]-yd u mati-yd [ibaSd-a]. 











ATTENDING AN ECLIPSE OF THE MOON. 


1 2 ? 


17 . mub-ra-an-ni GU.ZUR-ki u-kul-li- 

18 . -pi-ka pu-sur ina la Hl-ka su-sa-a- 

19 . [ka ?]-bu-ut-ta-ka-in a tas-ma-a an -. . 

20 .- tn - un sipat tlu I -a ... 

2 1. . .. ilu Bau sipat tlu NIN.A . . . 

22 ... MA GU . . . 

23 . 


No. 61 (K 8293) contains traces of four lines of directions 
for ceremonies, which are followed by a short incantation of 
seventeen lines, addressed to a goddess, “the daughter of Ann”. 
Only the first line of the eclipse-formula is included in the text, 
while in the duplicate A this is replaced by the second and 
third lines of the formula. 

11. For the um nn-bai(r)-ti, cf. Delitzsch, Beitrdge zur Assyr., 
Bd. I, p. 231, and Jensen, Rosmologie , p. 106 f. A similar sequence 
of days occurs in K 2866, 1 . 25 f. (S. A. Smith, Miscellaneous 
Assyrian Texts , p. 17); cf. also III R 56, No. 4. 


Obv. 

1. 

2. 
3 * 
4 - 
5 * 

6 . 

7 * 

8 . 

9 * 

10. 


11 

12 


No. 62 . 

Transliteration. 

. kissat ilanirabu 0 l 

. szmati$ l mu-us-si-ru ^u U sur& 0 1 

. sami-i u irsitim(tim) at-tu-nu-ma 

. J l us - su - ru burn - ku - nu - ma 
. . [taj-sim-ma Uuusura, 0 l balatu at-tu-nu-ma tu- 

us-sa-ra 

. . ta-par-ra-sa sipat-ku-nu balatu 

. -la-mu i-pis pi-ku-nu ba-la-tu-um-ma 

ka - bi - su irsiti(ti) rapasti(ti) 

. .-bu ka-bi-su ki-rib sami-i tukiiii$ l at-tu-nu-ma 
. . luin-ni sa-ki-nu duvi-ki mu-pa-si-su tda 0 l 

ITIMIS limni 0 l 

,-da-a-ti Umni 0 l la tabdti mu-sal-li-tu ki-i lum-ni 
, . .-si-ru NAM.BUL.BLI i-ma idd 0 l ITI.MIS 

ma-la ba-sa-a 




























128 


PRAYERS AGAINST THE EVILS 


13. [ana-ku pulanu] apil pulani sa ilu-su pulanu ilu iitar-su pu- 

lanitum(tum) 

0 ITLMIS limniti pl it-ta-nab-sa-nim-ma 


14 


15. [pal]-fca-ku-ma 


ad-ra-ku 


sii-ta-du-ra-ku 


16. ina lumun ilu atali £Iu Sin ina lumun tlu atali iiu Samas 

17. ina lumun kakkabani* 1 sa su-ut ilu l-a Sk-ut ilu A-nim sU-ut ilu Bil 

18. ina lumun . pl sa ana kakkabani fl fyarrani* 1 

is-sal- . 

19. ina lumun . * l sa ana a-lja-mis it-ii-ib- . 

.. ina lumun ali . 


Rev. 

.. du f-a • • • - 

22.. rabiti(ti) ana 


kalu 


1 TA.A.AN 


24 . -ak-ki SAR mi pl illiitR 1 

25 .. [ ilu ]Marduk iukdn(an) III KA l . 

26. [suluppu KU.AJ.TIR lasapak(ak) SA samni ?iiku mil [disptt 

faimitu iasakan(an)] 

27. tukan(an) SA.JVA burdsi iasakan(a?i) . 

28. [ £mm£ru niki] ianaki(ki) ZAG riru MLHI [u &™KAJZI ta- 

sakan(an) 

29 . [ia?]-sal-lab III KUDUB.DUB.BU SUB.fSUBfdi)] 

30 . minutu(tu) an-ni-iu III sanitu munu-ma us- 

ki-in-ma . 

31. [siptu Ml] bill sar sarrani . 

32. [ikal] m Uu AsSur-bdn-aph sarri kissati sarri m&iu tlu [Assur KJ ] 

33. [sd a] - na ilu Assur £ llu Bilit idk - him 

34. [sd] ilu Nabii £ ilu Tas-mt-ium uzna du rapastum(tum) is-ru-ku-us 
35 ; [i-hu]-zu ind du na-mir-tum . ni-sik dup-sar-ru-ti 

36. [sd ina] sarrani pl (ni) a - lik mab - ri - ya 

37. [minima sip - ru] sit - a - in la i - Jju - zu 

38. [ni-mi-ik llu Nabii] ti-kip sa-an-iak-ki ma-la ba-as-mu 

39. [ina dup-pa-a-ni as] - lur as - nik ab - ri - i - ma 

40. [a-iia ta-mar-ii si-ta]-as-si-ya ki-rib ikalli-ya u-kzn 

41. [itil/u mu die nu - ur] sarri ilani pl ilu Assur 

42. [man-mi sd itabbalu ii lu-u] suma-su it-ti sumi-ya i-sat-ta-ru 

43. [ £iu Assur fi ilu Bilit ag]~gis iz-zi-is lis-ki-pu-su-ma 

44. [suma - bu sira - su] ina mdti li - bal - li - ku 


























ATTENDING AN ECLIPSE OF THE MOON. 


129 


No. 62 (K 7593) is the upper portion of a large tablet. 
Its Obverse contains a prayer, which is addressed to more than 
one deity, and is offered with the object of obtaining help on 
several occasions of distress. The line that is ruled between 
11. 15 and 16 does not mark the commencement of a second 
incantation, but rather a fresh section of the first prayer. For 
at that point the suppliant ceases his invocation and the state¬ 
ment of his own condition of alarm, and prays for deliverance 
from various evil powers and influences. As the first of these 
evils is that caused by a lunar eclipse the tablet is included 
in the present Section. The other evils, that are enumerated 
in 11 . 17—20, appear to be of an astral nature. The Reverse 
of the tablet concludes with a ceremonial section of seven lines. 

12. The compound ideogram NAM.BUL.B 1 appears to be 
a somewhat general term for evil or unpropitious influences, cf. 
IV R 17, Rev., 1 . 15 £, K 2277, Obv., 11 . 3 ff., Rev., 11 . 1, 4, etc . 

For the Series of incantations entitled the ►A-TTk £3 

I—, see Bezold, Catalogue , p. 456, sub K 2587. 

29. For the restoration of the end of this line, cf. No. 40, 
1 . 12; see also No. 30, 1 . 24. 

32. The most recent translation of this colophon has been 
given by Tallqvist, Die Assyrische Beschwdrungsserie Maqlu , 
Leipzig 1895, pp. 4L 53 £> etc. 


s 




VOCABULARY 


k* = n; = n. «i = j u, k 5 = j? a . £ 

Situ “spell, charm”: 3 - il-ti 36,5; i-il-ta-su 32,4. 

DK abu “father”: a-bu 11, 2 ; 19, 5; a-bi 6, 24; 11, 38; 12, 34, 87; 
21,56; 33,i2; abu 11, 22; abu-ka. 2,17; 3,15: 27,9; 
60, 11; abi-ya 11, 22 C; abi-ya 11, 2 2 his ; a-bu-ni 61, 7. 
D2K I * ‘ *to shine, be bright”: lu-bi-ib 12, 82; — II 1 “to make 
bright, to purify”: li-ib-bi-bu-nin-ni 12, 86; lib-bi-bu-. .... 
12, 86 C; ubbib-an-ni (ideogr. LAH.LAH) 11,25. 
ibbu “pure”: ib-bi 30, 2. 

DDK abub u “deluge, inundation”: a-bn-bu 11, 1; a-bu-ub 12, 23; 
a-bu-bi 21, 80. 

AB.AB a festival?: (urn) AB.AB 61, 11. 

*pK abnu “stone”: abni * 1 12, 104; 49,28. 

aban birki “thunderbolt”: abnt$ l birku 21, 17. 
abkallu “arbiter”: ab-kal 22,35; abkallu 22,37; abkalli 
53,27; abfcal 12,88,114; 53,3. 

“ON aba ru “to be strong”: ? a-bz-rum 6,97; 10,7. 
abaru “strength”: ci-ba-ri 46, 16. 

"OK. aburris “in security”: aburris (ideogr. U.SAL) 25, 6. 
roNi abbuttu “chain, fetter” {see $abatu): a-bu-ti i, 42; 9, 45; 
33» 24. 

agubbft “pure water; vessel of purification”: karpatu a-giib~ba 
12,85, * 1 8 ; a-gub-ba 15, 18. 



VOCABULARY 


[agagu 


agagu “to be enraged”: i-gu-ga 4,46; 6,89: 7,27. 
aggu “angry”: ag-gu 6, 12; 27,20; 46,5. 
uggatu “anger”: ug-gat 12, 77. 

PUN “sin”: / ij-gu-u 46, 1; [ij-gu-u 28,9. 

UGU.KUL.LAH: 12, 101. 

IGI.MAN.GIRI(te«): 51, 14- 

ugaru “plain, country”: u-ga-ru 21,84. 

adaguru “incense-burner, censer”: kar * aiH a-da~gfir 12,4; 

kar ? aiu a -da-giir 30, 23. 
adi “up to”: adz 11,37. 
idlu “hero”: i-dil 9, 1; 18,20. 
admu “child”: ?ad-mi-ki 7,40. 

adaru “to fear”: Ii a-dii-ur-ma 28, 10; 46,2; ad-ra-ku 
4,42; 62, 15; — III 2 su-ta-du-ra-kii 4,42: 62, 15. 

T!& adiru “trouble, distress”: a-di- .5,6. 

idirtu “affliction”: i-dir-tu 12,69. 
adirtu “grief”: ? a-di-ra-tu 30, 13. 

mudissu “renewer, renovator”: mu-dis-sii-u 9,5; mu-dis- 
su-u 12,30; 21,4. 

iddissu, iddisu “newly shining”: id-dis-su~u 12, 18; 
id-dis-sii-u 1,2; 6,98; id-di-m-ii 12, 18 A 

DIN 4 “storm”: u-mu 20,9,11; 21,9,35,37. 

"1^ urru “light”: urru-ka 1, 5, 10. 

21^4 iz * bu - HI * “to save, to deliver”: su-zi-bi 31, 6; su-zu-ba 4, 
3^; 6,76. 

TTN4 * z * zu “to be angry”: i-zi-za 6,89; 7,27; i-zi-za-ma 7,41. 
izzu “mighty, terrible”: iz-zi-iu 12, 117. 
uzzu “anger”: uz-zu 12, 77; h#-*/ 33. 3. 
izzitu? “anger”: t-zis-su 11, 1; z-zi-su 11, 1 A 

|I^ uznu “ear”: uz-nu 12,20; z&sr-z;/ 60,6; uzna du -ai 4,34; 
6, 79; 7, 16; 19, 20; 21, 62; uzna du -si-na (cf. birtu) 12, 38. 

m *hu 4 ‘brother”: afyi-ya n, 22 C; a&i* l -$u 21,5. 
afeamis “together”: a-fya-mis 62, 19. 

PIN a b u “side”: a-faz-ya 13,23. 

afritu “side”: a-fyi-ii 12, 68. 




alu] 


VOCABULARY 


133 


nm a b 6 4 ‘hostile”: ? a-fyi-tu-ma 11,24. 

FIN a b azu “to hold, to grasp”: a-fyu-zu 8, 6. 

aharrikanu a disease of the eye: aharrikanu (ideogr. 
IGI.IGI) 51, 12. 

itiru “to protect”: i-ti-ir 56,6; [z]-ti-zr 51,2; it-ri-ni-in- 
ni-ma(?) 4,34; it-ti-rat 9,35; z-ti-ra-ta 6,64; i-ti-ra 4, 
31; 6,76; itira. (ideogr. KAR) 7, 14; 37, 12. 
itiru a garment: i-ti(?)-ra 31, 10. 

^ ai ‘‘not, never”: ai 2, 45; 6, 124; 7, 57 bis ; 10, 22; 11, 19, 
24; 12, 62, 63, 64, 65, 67, 69, 74 bis , 77; 15, 9; 21, 65. 
ya 5 u “where?”: ya-u 11, 10; 21, 54. 

DiN aibu “foe”: ai-bi-ya 21, 64. 

* nu ini 40, 10; ini-ma 40, 13; ini pl -ya 53, 10. 

“m aru I 2 “to lead, rule”: mu-ut-ia- -ir (or I 2 fr. INVO?) 6, 20. 
tirtu “command, law”: ti-rit 2, 18; 3, 15. 
ikdu “mighty, courageous”: ik-du 20, 18; 46, 18. 
hdn iku “needy”: i-ka-a 2, 20; 3, 16. 

ikutu “need, want”: i-ku-tu 12,37; i-ku-ium a,zoB; 
i-kii-ti 2, 20; 3, 16. 

akalu “to eat, to consume”: Ii ikkal-su (ideogr. KU.KU) 
12,121; iakalu{lu ) ideogr. KU 33, 46; — IV 2 li-ta- 
kil{F) 1, 45, 48; {?)-kil(?)] 33, 29, 32. 

makalu “eating”: ma-ka-U 4 7, 52. 
tea. iklitu “darkness”: ik-lit-si-[na] 12, 35. 
uklu “darkness”: uk 4 i 58,17. 
ukallu?: u-kal{galF)-lu 21, 18. 
ikallu “palace”: ikal 9, 32; ikalli-yd. 1, 13, 40; 4, 19, 41; 
6, 113 F\ 7 . 22, 61; 19, 12; 27, 11 A; 50, 16; 53, 26: 54, 
4; 55 . 5 ; 56, 11; 57 , 6; 58, 7; 59, 14; 60, 21; 61, 16 A. 
□DNi ikimmu “spectre”: i-kivi-mu 53, 13, 14; ikimmu (ideogr. 

GIDIM) 50, 19; 53, 6, 15; GIDIM(UTUG?).MA 22, 12. 
uknu “lapis-lazuli”: alnu uknu 12, 12, 13, 70. 

"DN ikkaru “husbandman”: Hk-ka-ru 56,4. 

alu “city”: alu 21, 25; ali 12, 65; 21, 25; 62, 20; ali-ya 
21, 14, 18; ali-ya 4, 37, 46; 6, 82, 88; 7, 19, 26. 



134 


VOCABULARY 


[ilu 


^ ilu “god”: ilu i, 25, 44, 50; 4, 37, 46; 6, 3, 4, 82, 88, 121, 
122,132; 7,19,26; 10,20,21,27; 11,7,11,15,17; 12, 
31,107,111; 19,3,15,25; 21,18,25,76,93; 22,7,36, 
38; 27, 23; 28,7; 33, 27, 35; 50, 25; 60, 8; Hi 12, 57, 
77; 21,26; 27,12; 33,3; 61,13; Hi (NI.NI) 4,45; 6, 
6 7; n.25; 3°, I0 ; ilu-Su 1,38; 2,24,26; 3,3; 6,27, 
55,83^; 10,32; 12,45; J 3, 5; 31.4; 33.2i; 50,13; 
54 . i; 5 6 > 8: 57 , 3; 5 8 , 5 ! 62, 13; ili-Su 2, 26 Z>; 50, 12; 
59,17; ili-ya 1, 23; 2, 40; 4, 29, 36; 6, 73, 81, 87, 123; 
7,11,18,25; 9,16,18; 10,21; 11,26; 12,61,71,92; 

21,67; 22,17,61,62; 37,9; Hi- .6,11; ilani pl 

1, u, 14, 16, 17; 2, 2, 15, 18, 25, 30, 31, 45, 47; 3, 6 bis , 13, 
!5; 4, 9, ”, 12; 5, 1; 6, 39, 65, 91, hi, 127, 129, 130; 7, 
5, 6, 29; 8, 19“*, 23; 9, 25, 26, 29, 30, 32; 10, 3, 5,15, 23; 
”, 14, 35 ,' ”, 79 , 87, 88, ”4! 21, 52, 56, 58, 61, 93; 22, 
3,27,41; 27,4,7; 33,8,12; 39,8; 43,3,4,5; 49,5; 
50, 5, 10, 29; 52, 5; 53, 27; 58, 16; 59, 7; 61, 14; 62, 1. 

iltu “goddess”: il-tum 7,35; \l-ti 30,30; i-lat 2,43; 
I 9 , 34 ; 33 , 1, 20; 39, 6, 7; ilat(at ) 1, 37; i-la-a-ti 1, 29; 
5, 32,6. 

ililtu “godhead, divinity”: ilu-ti-ka 1, 18; 13,6; 22, 10, 
66; 27, 22; 46, 8; ilu-ut-ka 9, 11; 12, 91; 21, 70; 27, 15; 

54, 6 ; ilu- .6, 16; i-lut-ka 6 , 68 ; ilu-ut-ki 

4, 34; 8, 17. 

ul “not”: itl 6, 26; 12,58; 14, 17; 50, 8; 60, io bls ; ill 1, 
5 °, 51; 4 , 44 ; 6 > 86; 7, 24; 12, 1, 19, 77, 100, 119; 19, 8, 
31, 32; 21, 2; 33, 36, 46; 51, 16; 53, 23; 59, 11. 

ultu “from”: ul-tu 6,58; 11,36. 
alu a demon: alii 12, 51. 

ilu “lofty, situated above”; that which is in heaven (opp. 

to Saplu, q. v.): . -Id-a 2, 16 B\ ilu 21, 55; ildti pl 

59 , 4 - 

ili “on, upon”: Hi 7, 58; 12, 6, 97 bis , 104, 115; 17, 7, 8; 
ili-ka 2, 34; ili-ya 6, 58; xo, 4; ih r ya 1, 22, 47; 12, 57; 

r 4 , 1; 19, 24; 22, 58; 53, 9; Hi- .6, 93; 7, 31; 51, 7. 

r mi-1at \1)-. 12, 57, 107; 27, 12. 
r ti-li-tu: 31, n. 







amtMtu] 


VOCABULARY 


135 


1^2 alaku “to go”: Ii illika(ka) ideogr. DU 50, 23; lil-li-kt 
5, 4; lil-lik 11, 24; 53, 19; lul-lik 6, 117; 10, 18; 13, 9; 
53. 5; a-lik 13, 4; 42, 10; a-li-kat 8, 12; — I 2 lit-tal-lak 

19,30; lit-tal- .6,123; 10,21;— III 2 li-sa-lik 

(= *listalik ?) 14, 10. 

alaktu “path, way”: a-lak-ti 4, 30; 6, 113; 10, 16; 11, 

11; 30, 9 - 


IL.(LA) a plant: i<*«IL 12, 9; J*«IL.LA 3°, 25. 
alalu “to bind, to gird, to hang up”: i-lul 42, 14. 

I 1 “to shine, be bright”: lu-lil 12, 81;— II 1 “to make 
bright, purify”: ullil-an-ni (ideogr. AZAG) 12, 84. 
illu “bright, pure”: il-lu 49, 32; illu 12, 2; 21, 28, 74; 
30,21; 31,8; 33,39; 48,17; Uluti* 1 4,24; 6,21,71; 
7, 9; 22, 42; 27, 5; 32, 7, 15; 37, 7; 62, 24. 
ulinnu “robe, vestment”: ulinnu 4, 29; 6,73; 7, 11; 37, 
9; ulinnu-ka 5, 2; ulinnu-ki 4, 29; 6, 73; 7, 11; 37, 9. 
ul$u “joy, pomp”: ul-si 6,121; 10, 20; ulsi (ideogr. UL) 
15 - 


ima “when; in, among”: i-ma 8, 18; 9, 12, 20 B; 54, 7; 
62, 12. 

iniidu “to stand; to establish”: imid-ki (ideogr. KI.KI) 
1, 41; li-im-id 5, 4. 


nm ‘ 4 to speak”: III 2 uS-ta-mu-it 1, 15. 

amatu “word, speech”: a-mat 4, 43; 6, 85; 7, 23; 8, 15; 
9, 20; 12, 89; a-mat-sa 33, 2; a-mcit-ka 60, 9, 12; am - 
ma-ti-ya 11,5^; am-ma-ti-ya 11,5; amati$ l (KA.A.MlS) 
6o, 16. 


atrau “speech, word”: at-mu-u-a 49, 9. 

mamttu “ban, curse”: ma-mi-tu 33,32; 61,9; ma-mit 

i, 48; 12, 52, 78; 59, 7; 61, 10; ma- .39, 15. 

amilu “man”: amilu 11,15; 12,1; amilu (NA) 12,121; 
a-ml-lu-tii 11, 8 A; a-ml-lu-tum n, 8 ; a - . 

* 12, 56 B; amiluti ? 1 7, 51; 12, 56, 63, 66; amilutum{tum ) 
12, 57 B, 63 BC ; amtlutiiti) 12, 57. 
amilhtu “mankind”: amilutu 12,107 is; 51,4; amiluti 
12, 61: 50, 25; a-niz-hi-ti 12, 107; a-mi-hi-ta 12, in. 






336 


VOCABULARY 


[ummu 


am ummu “mother”: urn-mu 6, 77 D-, ummu 4, 47; 6, 71, 77; 

7. 9. 59? ri > 22: 30, 20; 37, 7, 13; 57, 2; urn-mi 12, 

34; ummi 11, 39; ummi-ya 11, 22 C\ ummi-ya 11, 22 bis . 

ummatu “host”: um-mat 2, 47. 

pO#i imuku “might, strength”: i-mu-ku 21,8; i-mu-ka 60,13; 
i-mu-ki 49, 23; 60, 14; t-muk 1, 19. 
nimiku “wisdom”: ni-tm-ki 13,10; 21,57; 41, 13. 
timtku “supplication”: ti-mi-ki 11, 27. 

amaru “to see”: I 1 a-mur 15, 9; lirnur (Si. BAR) 12, 
100; hi-mur 12, 113 A'; a-ma-ri-ka 1, 8;— I 2 i-tam- 
mur{?) 12, 106; a-ta-mar 2, 36: 3, 4; 27, 17; 34, 2. 

amiru “deafness(?)”: ci-mi-ru-u-a 30, 17; a-mi-ri- . 

4, 4; a-mi-ri 13, 9. 

immiru “Iamb, sheep”: hnmiru 6,110; inimiri 12,96. 

ana “to, for, towards, according to”; also compounded 
with afyamis, Hi, arki, libbi, maf}ar, paid {qq. v.): a-na 
1, 3i 42; 2, 22; 6, 23; 7, 29, 50, 52, 62; 8, 24; 11, 9, 24, 
26,39; 12, 88, 109.fi; 13. 20 bis ; 18,3,17^; 19,14; 21, 
20; 30, 18; 31, 5; 33, 23, 34; 39, 2; 40, 4; 42, 7; 45, 7; 
53, 19, 20: 57, 7; 61, 13, 15; ana 1, 4, 8, 27; 2, 10; 4, 36, 
37; 6, 23 A, 34. 81, 82, 91, 116; 7, 18, 19, 58; 8, 20; 10, 
18,33; n.i5» 42 , 44 ; 12, 1, 2, 5, 8, 11, 48, 68, 72, 97 bis , 
ioo b!s , 104, 115, 116, 120; 13,13; 18,17,19^521,7,11, 
23, 28, 88 bis , 90; 22, 48, 67; 24, 6; 26, 4; 30, 20; 31, 8; 
32,3; 35, I 5? 38 ,i; 40,16; 50,23; 51,10; 52,3; 53, 
i6 bis , i7 b!s ; 62, 18, 19, 22. 

aSsum (— ana sum) “since, because of’: aS-Sum 4, 31, 
32; 6, 74, 75, 76; 7, 12, 13, 14; 19, 15; 27, 15, 16, 17, 18; 
37, 10, 11, 12; 50, 17; 57, 8. 

ina “in, through, among, during”; also compounded with 
Hi, balii, birit, kirib, pani, Sapli {qq. v.)\ i-na 18, 10 A; 
22,63; ina 1, 5, 11, i2 bk , 13, 15, 24, 26, 39 bis , 40, 43, 44, 
49,50; 2,2,15,16; 3,13,14; 4, 5, 7, 12, 17 bis , 19, 38, 

39 bis » 4 i, 43 Hs ; 5 , 1. 18; 6,21,22,24,26,37,41,47,65, 
78, 83Z?, 84.Z?, 85 b,s , 113 A ter , 120, 122; 7, 16, 19, 2o bis , 22, 
23 bis . 38, 44 . 56, 6o b!s , 61; 8,16,24; 9,8,10,13,14,16, 
17,18,35; 10,21; 11,5,14,27,28; 12, 2, 6, 8, 11, i3 bis , 




VOCABULARY 


137 


I 4 b “> 15 *“. 34 , 56, 59 - 62, 66 > 67, 70, 72, 75, 76, 80, 81, 82, 
87, 98, i02 bU , 113, 114, 116 bis , 118; 13, 6, 7, io, 11, 26, 32; 
14,5; 15,15; 16, n bis ; 17, 7, 8; 18, 4, 6, 10, i9 b!s ; 19, 
io bis , 12, 13, 18, 28, 31; 21, 6, 10, 14, 28, 48, 60, 61, 73, 

74, 92 b!s ; 22, 8, 9, io bis , 14, 15, 17, 18, 29, 53, 54, 56, 60, 

66, 69 bis ; 26, 5; 27, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11 A ter , 13; 28, 6 bis ; 30, 20, 
26 bis ; 31,6,8; 32,7,15; 33,12,25,27,36,40,44; 34, 
6 bis ; 35 , 2 » 4 ; 3 6 , 7 ; 38, 4 hU 5 39 , 5 b!s , 13; 4 °, 6, 15; 41, 
2 bis ; 42, 13, 15, 17, 25; 46, io b!s ; 47, 7 b!s ; 48, 17; 49, H? 
50, 3, 6, 9, 14 bis , 15, 16, 18, 24, 26; 51, 15; 52, 2, 4 bis ; 53, 

5, 8 bis , 14, 16, 23, 24 bu , 26, 2 7 b!s , 28; 54, 2 bis , 3, 4, 5; 55, 

3 b '% 4 , 5 ? 5 6 , 9 bis > l °, 11; 57 , 4 bis > 6 , J 3 , 14; 58 , 6 b!s , 7; 

59, 1, i2 bis , 14; 60, i9 b “, 21; 61, 11, i6 bis , 16 A, 18; 62, 

i6 b!s , 17, 18, 19, 20. 

inuma “when”; i-nu-ma 6, 56; 21, 73; 24, 5; 33, 45; inu- 
ma 12, 1, 121; inu(?)-ma 42, 25; inu(?) .42, 25. 

inu “to annul; to be annulled, to be altered, to become 
invalid”: i-nu-u 60, 8; inu-u 1, 51; 19, 32; inu-u 4, 44; 

6, 86; 7, 24; 19, 8; 21, 2. 

tanihu “sighing - , groaning”: ta-iii-fai 1,45; 12,51; 33, 
29; ta-ni-[l}i'r] 5, 7. 

tanifetu “sighing”; ta-Jii-ili-ti-ya 15, 15. 

“to faint, to be weary”: a-ni-bu 20, 9, 11; 21, 9, 35, 37. 

anaku “I”: a-na-kn 50,12; 56,7; ana-ku 1,38; 2,26, 
36; 4,16; 6,27,83 E; 11,16; 12,45,90,94; 13,5,20; 
21,11,51; 27,11; 30,7; 3 1 , 4 ; 33,2i; 39 -i6; 43,7; 
54, 1; 55, 2; 57, 3; 58,5; 62, 13; anaku 60, 3. 
INIM.INIM.MA “prayer”: 1, 28, 52; 2,9,42; 3, 9; 4,8, 
23; 5, 10; 6,17,35,70,95,131; 7 , 8 , 33 ; 8,20; 9,27; 
10,6,26,34; 11,41; 12,95; J 3, 12; 14,11; 15,17,' J 6, 
10; 17,5; 18,18; 19,33; 20,7; 21,24,72,91; 22,30, 
68; 23, 6; 24, 4; 25, 5; 26, 3; 27, 25; 28, 5; 29, 2; 30, 
19; 3 1 , 75 32, 2; 33, 38; 34, 5; 36, 6; 37, 6; 38, 3; 39, 
4; 40,2; 42,24; 43 , 8 ; 44,2; 45 , 4 ; 46,9; 47,6; 48, 
16; 4g, 20; 50, 28; 51, 9; 60, 4. 

annu “sin”: an-ni 2, 38; 11, 19, 29 bis , 30 bls , 31, 32, 33, 34, 
35! 27, 21. 



138 VOCABULARY [annu 

pKs 4ito be merciful”; II 2 u to weep, to pray 15 : ut-nin 21, 62; 
ut-nin-ka 60, 10. 

annu “mercy”: an-na-su 60, 8; an-ni-ka 19, 32; 52, 2; 
an-ni-ki 1,51; 4,44; 6,86; 7,24; 33,36; an-ni-kii-nu 
53 ? 5 - 

unninu “mercy, compassion; sighing*, prayer”: un-ni- 
na 22, 64; un-ni-ni 9, 39; 33, 5; un-ni-ni-ya 1, 43: 2, 33; 
6,80; 7,17; 8,4; 18, 14. A: 21,21; 33,26; un-ni-ni-ya 
4i 35; *8, 14; 23, 3. 

? innintu “sorrow (?)”: in-nin-ii 30, 11. 

annu “this”: an-nu-u 53, 15; an-nu-u 30, 29; 53, 15; an- 
ni-i 7, 38; an-ni-i 12, 59: 13, 26; 21; 21; 22, 56; an-ni- 
ma 21, 70; an-nam 12, 1,03, 115; BI (= annam) 2, 9; 
6,95; 12,2; 13,13; 16,11; 18,19; 21, 28, 73, 

92; 22, 31, 69; 24, 5; 28, 6; 30, 20; 32, 3; 34, 6; 38, 4; 

39? 5; 4i? 2; 46, 10; 47, 7; 51, 10; 52, 3; an-na(?) . 

44, 3; an-ni-tu 2, 10; 30, 27; 40, 13; 62, 30; an-ni-[ti] 
51, 11; a-nu-ti-ma i, 33; a-na-ii-ma 5, 15. 
AN.IRIM(W: 40, 14. 

insu “weak”: in-su 12, 119; in-si 2, 21; 22, 50; 48, 3; m- 
si 9 , 37 , 45 - 

altu “wife”: al-ii 4, 10, 11. 

tinigitu “men, mankind”: ti-ni-si-i-ti 2, ig; 3, 16; 19, 13; 
5°, 9; ti-ni-si-i-ti 2, 19 B; ti-ni-H-ti 9,52; ti-ni-sit 12,33. 

HIS 4 atta; atti “thou”: at-ta 2,25; 6,43; 12,31,105; 18,8; 

50,29; at-ta-ma 6,112; 10,15; 12, 34i 35; 60,9; at-ti 
4, 10, 11; 61, 10; [at]-ti-ma 32, 14. 

attunu “ye”: at-tu-nu 7, 46; 8, 22; at-tu-nu-ma 52, 5; 
62, 3 , 5 i 9- 

jOtf isinnu “festival”: i-sin-na-ka 1, 18. 

misiru “band, fetter”: misiru (ideogr. SU.I.BU) 53, 16; 
misiru (ideogr. SU.I.TUM) 53, 17. 

aptu “dwelling, habitation”: a-pa-a-ti 13,16; 33,34; *-pa- 
a-ti(?) 33, 6. 

upu “clouds”: u-pi-i 20, 12; 21, 38. 




irtu] 


VOCABULARY 


139 


bzx apalu: Ii a-pa-lu 11,4; a-pa-lum 11,4 A. 

bCN aplu “son”: ap-lu 2, 11; 3,10; a-pil 2, 47; 9, 31; 22, 36, 
38; 33, 6; aplu (ideogr. TUR.US) 9, 38; apil (ideogr. 
A) 1,38; 2,26; 4,16; 6,27,83 E\ 10,31; 12,45,90; 
13,5; 22,11,51; 27,11; 30,7; 3i,4; 33,2i; 39,16; 
54 , 1; 57 , 3 ; 58, 5 ; 62, 13. 
up until a plant: upuntu 6, 80; 7, 17; 40, 11. 
apsu “the deep, the abyss 1 ’: apsu 3, 5; 4, 15; 8, 18; 21, 
57; apsi 5,18; 12, 87. 

1DK ip iru “to support, sustain”: [i?]-pi-rat 9, 37, 
ipru “dust”: ipir 12, 55; ipri* 1 (iS.ZUN) 59, 2. 

0m apsanu “yoke”: ap-sa-na-ki 8, 7. 

ipisu “to do, to make, to perform”: i-pu-Sa 11, 36; ti- 
pus(us) ideogr. DU 12, 12; 33, 45; i-pu-us 11, 16; li-pn- 
su ig, 26; ipus(us) ideogr. DU 8, 21; 16, 11; 18, 19; 
21, 92; 22, 69; 28, 6; 34, 6; 38, 4; 39, 5; 41, 2; 46, 10; 
47, 7; ipus (ideogr. DIM) 12, 103, 115; DU.DU (= ip us) 
2, 9; 6 , 95; 12, 2; 13,13; 16, xi; 18, 19; 2i, 28, 73, 92; 
22,31,69; 28,6; 32,3; 34,6; 38,3; 39,5; 41,2; 46, 
10; 47, 7; AG.AG (= ipus ) 11, 42; 24, 5; 30, 20; 51, 
10; 52, 3; i-pis 62, 7. 
ipistu “handiwork”: [i]-pis-ti 32, 10. 

StfEK i pisu “to practise magic”; part, “sorcerer, sorceress”: 
i-pi-si 7, 58; i-pis-ti 7, 58. 

ipSu “magic, sorcery”: ip-si 12, 56. 
upisu “magic, sorcery”: u-pis 12, 62,109; 50, 17. 
itpisu “prudent”: [it]-pi-[sz] 4, 15; i-ti-ip-su 22, 2. 

•m “to surround, confine, bewitch”: II 1 tu-us-sa-ra 62, 5; 
mu-us-si-ru 62,2; as-su-rii 62,4. 

u$urtu “charm, spell”: wusurati* 1 6,112; 10,15; 19, 
6; 62, 2, 5. 

ukuru a plant or tree: ukuru (? *$ u libbi gisimmari) 12, 84. 

aru “blossom”: art* 1 12, 5 ter . 
irtu “breast”: irai-su 1,49; 33^33* 


Ta 



140 


VOCABULARY 


[iribu 


TW? 


rm 

rm 

T* 



p» 

pa 


yin 

EhK 

Km 

Km s 




iribu “flight of locusts”: iribu 59, 22. 

iribu I 1 “to enter”: i-rib (Inf. with Samsi — “sunset”) 
53, 19; — III 1 “to bring in”: li-si-rib 23, 2. 

ardu “servant, slave”: arad-ka 2,26 D: 12,45,90,94; 
21, 88: 22, 11; 27, 11; 50. 12; aradka (URU.ZU) 60, 3; 
arad-ki 43, 7. 

urfeu “way”: ur-fyi 1, 24; 22, 59. 

arhis “quickly”: ar-his 2, 24. 

araku I 1 “to be long”: Ii-ri-ik 18, 16; — II1 “to 
lengthen”: ur-ri-ki 8, 17; — III 1 “to lengthen”: su- 
ri-ka 5, 3. 

urkarinnu a precious wood: wurkarinmi 12, 8, 15, 116; 
30, 26. 

arallft “the Lower World, the realm of the dead”: a-ra- 
al-li-i 2, 22; aralli[-ina] 27, 6. 

arnu “sin”: dr-nn 2, 23 b!s ; ar-na 2, 23 B\ 6, 54; ar-ni 7, 

48; 50, 17; ar-ni 59, 7!. ~ni 5, 6; ar-nu(-ya?) 7, 

47; ar-ni-ya 12,84; dr-ni-ya 12,76 C; ar-ni-ya 1,26; 
12, 84 C. 

irinu “cedar”: imirinu 30, 25; 40, 4, 11. 

irsitu “earth”: ir-si-tum 12, 82 C; irsitum(tum) 61,8 A; 
ir$ita(ta) 1,7; irsitifti) 1,30; 19,7; 60,5; 62,8; irsi- 
tim(tim) 3,8; 5.12; 6,100,128; 10,9,24; 12,64,82; 
18, 6; 22, 39; 46, 11; 50, 8; 53, 20, 21; 60, 5; 61, 8; 62, 
3; irsiii 4,15; 16, 12. 

arratu “curse, incantation”: a-ra-ti 1, 41; arrat 12, 68, 74. 

irsu “wise”: ir-Su 12, 33; 22, 37; 46, 18. 

irisu “scent, odour”: i-ri-Su 2, 28; i-ri-sa 12, 28 CD. 

arsasu “device, machination”: dr-Sa-su-u 12, 63 B\ dr-sa- 

sd[-u?] 7,57; dr-sa-H-t 7,51; dr-sa- .51, 

3; arsasi* 1 12, 63; 21, 65. 

isatu “fire”: isdtu, 49, 27; isati 21, 74; 36, 7. 

iSibu “to sprout, to bear fruit”: is-sub-ba-a 12, 97. 

aSagu a shrub: iwaSagu 12, 10; >P‘asdgi 21, 74. 





VOCABULARY 


itti] 


141 


nm isitu “trouble, confusion”; [i]-sa-ti-ya n, 20* 

aSakku u evil sickness, consumption”: aSakku 1, 46; 
33 , 30 . 

ds-li-i-tz ( Pina li-i-ti) 21, 79. 

usumgallu “sovereign, ruler”: usuntgal 9, 7; 12, 32. 
asnan “corn, grain”: a$-na-an 2, 29 D\ llu as-na-an 12,30; 
as-na-an 2, 29. 

im asaru “to be favourable, to bless”: I 1 li-su-[ru-u] 3, 6; 

a-si-ru 12, 32; a-sir 22, 3; a-sir 6, 43: asira(ra) ideogr. 
SAR {? [ma]-fyi-ra) 27, 6; — II 1 us-su-ru 1, 4. 
asirtu “sanctuary, shrine”: as-rat 21, 54; As-rat 11, 13. 
isirtu “shrine”: is-ri-ti 22, 7. 

asru “place”: is-n 11, 28; as-ri-su 11, 39; asar (ideogr. 

KI) 17, 6. 

asaridu “prince, chief’: a-sa-ri-du 22, 70; a-sa-rid 2, 25; 
6 , 39, 127; 9,5: 10,23; 20,15,17; 27, 2; 50, 29; asa¬ 
ridu (ideogr. SAG.KAL) 22,1,37; asaridu (ideogr. 
INI.DU) i, 42; 33, 23; asarid (ideogr. SAG.KAL) 22, 
6; asand (ideogr. TIK.GAL) 50, 8. 
istu “from”: is-iu 1,23; 53,6; is-tit(?) 9,44; istu-su-nu 
12, 101. 

nrWK istaru “goddess”: is-ta-ri 6,67; ilu iMar 12,31; zlu is-tar‘ 
su 50, 13; 56, 8; ilu istaru 27, 23; Uu istari 12, 57 B; 27, 
12; ilu istar 1, 44; 6, 57; 12, 61, 107, 111; 33, 27; 50, 25; 
a, ‘iStar-su 1,38; 2. 24 Z?, 26; 3,3; 6, 27, 83 E; 12,45; 
* 3 , 5 ; 31 , 4 ; 32 , 5 ; 33 , 21; 54,1; 57,3; 58,5; 62,13; 
Uu iStari-ya 2, 40; 4, 29, 36, 45; 6, 73, 81, 87; 7, n, 18, 
25; 9,17; 12,71,93; 21,67; 22,18; 37,9; ilu istari 1, 
23; ilu istaratiP 1 7, 43; 9, 29; 33, 11. 

ITI cf. nnK. 

m ittJ “with”: it-ti 27,7,8; 2, 35; 12,78,104; 22,32; 

51,12; itti-su 2,24; 32,5; itti- .6,55; it-[ti-ka] 

50, io.4; itti-ka 2, 30, 31; 19, 16; 50, 10; it-ti-ki 4, 32; 
itti-ki 6, 75; 7,13; 37, 11; it-ti-ya 4, 37; 22,61,62; itti- 
ya 1, 44; 6, 82, 88; 7, 26; 21, 67; 28, 3; 30, 10; 33, 27; 
itti-ya 1, 24; 6, 82 E ; 7, 19; 12, 71, 1x2; 14, 7; 19, 30; 
22, 19; 50, 19; it-ii-ni 61, 8; it-ti-ni-[ma?] 61, 9. 




142 


VOCABULARY 


[ittu 


("O'? ittu “portent”: ittu (ITI) 12, 65; ittati pl (ITI.MlS) 1, 13, 
40; 4,18,40; 6,113F; 7,21,61; 12,64; 19,11; 27,11 A; 
50 ,15; 53 , 25; 54 , 3 ; 55 , 4 ; 56 , 10; 57, 5; 58,7; 59, 13; 
60, 20; 61, 16 A; 62, 10, 12, 14. 

atalu “eclipse”: u *atalu 6, 122; 10, 21; ilu atali 1, 12, 39; 
4,17,39; 6,113/S 7,20,60; 19,10; 27,11^; 50,14; 
53, 24; 54,2; 55, 3; 56, 9; 57, 4; 58, 6; 59, 12; 60, 19; 
61,16; 62, i6 i!s . 

I til I u “mighty, exalted”: i-til-lii 9, 30. 
itillis “mightily”: z-til-Ii-is 12, 80 C. 
pn& itiku “to remove, tear away”: i-ti-ik 11,17; [itf-ti-ik 2, 39. 


2 

ba’alu “to be great, mighty”: ba-i-lat 9, 41. 
ba’altu “lady”: ba--Iat 9, 41 A; 33, 9. 

bilu “to rule”: tz-In-U-li 1, 33; ta~bi-U 4 i 5, 15; bi-il-la - 
an-ni 13, 29. 

bilu “lord”: bi-liim 6,61: 11, 7 A; 13, 15; 27, 1; bi-iz 
I2 t 59; 13,27; 19,19; 27,15; bilu 1,42,53; 6,1,91, 
I02 ; 7 ? 29; 9, 9, 21; 10, 10; 11, 7; 12, 21 A, 26, 34; 19, 
4,17; 21,19,61,63,93; 22,61,62; 33,23; 42,26; 48, 
17; 60,6,9; *V6,m,ii2; 9,4; 10, I5 bis ; 12, 17, 27, 
28; 19, 6,7; 21,80; 22,4,7; 2 7.2; 46,11,16; 53,3; 
59? 4? 6; 62, 31; bi-li-i 8, 26; bill 19, 4; 62, 31. 

biltu “lady”: bi-il-tum 33, 10, 37; M-il-ti 39, 13; bi(?)~ 
lit 3? 1; bi-lit i, 37; 3, 8; 4, 14, 15; 9, 33; 33, 20; 57, 
14; Mltu 1, 51; 4, 24, 27, 33, 47; 6, 71, 77, 85, 90; 7, 9, 
15, 16, 23, 28: 11, 31, 33; 32, 15; 37, 7, 13; bilti-yk 2, 3; 
6 ? 72 ; 7? 10 ; 33? 22: 37, 8 ; bi-U 4 ~ti 2, 43; 33, 47. 

bilutu “lordship, dominion”: bz-lut-ki 2, 4; 8,n; bi(?y 
.35? bilu-ut-ka 14,9; bilu-ut-ki 3,7. 


32 babu “gate”: babati** 40, 7. 

an babalu “to bring, supply”: ba-ba-lu 11, 15. 

bubbulum the time of the moon’s disappearance: bub - 
bulum 1, 17: 61, 12. 




bungnln] 


VOCABULARY 


143 


ban 11 “to come”: lu-ba- 12,80; li-ba- 12, 80C; — 
IH n 1 u to bring”: tus-ba- -stt-ma 12, 118. 

bftlu “cattle”: bu-ul 27, 10. 

bu’anu “muscle, sinew”: bu ani^-ya 1, 46; 33, 30. 

rn binu a tree or shrub: nubi-nu 12, 84; iwbinu 12, 9, 84 C; 
51, 12. 


rra bitu “house”: bit i, 54; 2, 16; 3, 14; 11, i^4; 12, 44; 21, 
25, 26, 60; 22, 35; 33, 8; 48, 18; biti-Su 12, 100; biti-ya 

27, 13- 

n:a bikitu “tears, weeping”: bikitu 4,33; bikit 13, 7. 


bukru “first-born”: bn-kur 2, 11; 3, 10; 9, 2; 12, 33; 21, 

1, 70; 27, 1; 29, 3; 46, 12; bu-uk-ri- .I, 10. 

bukratu “first-born daughter”: bu-uk-rat 1, 31; 5, 13; 


30, 30; 31, 11. 


rbz 


balft, ball “without”; compounded with ina: ba-li-ka 6, 
24, 26, 41; 50, 6; bali-ka (ideogr. NU.MI.A) 6 # , 26 A. 


balatu I 1 “to live”: lu-ub-lut 8, 17; 9, 10; 12, 90; 22, 

13, 66; 50, 26; 54, 5; .. -lut 45, 2; lublut(ut) 

ideogr. TI 30,15; — II 1 “to cause to live, to quicken”: 
mu-bal-lit 28,8; bul-lu-tu 4, 32; 6,75; 7,13; 9,34^; 
37, 11; bul-lu-ta 9, 34. 

balatu “life”: ba-la-ta 8,17; ba-la-ti 11,13; ba-li-ti 
5 . 5 ; 6, 93; 7, 31; ba-lat 9, 22; balatu (ideogr. TI) 12, 
80; 19, 28; balatu (ideogr. TI.LA) 8, 11; 9, 5, 39; 12, 
80 C; 13,18: 17,2; 22,5; 47,4; 62,5,6; balatu (ideogr. 
NAM.TI.LA) 35, 3; balatu (ideogr. NAM.TIN) 6, 106; 
balati (ideogr. TI.LA) 51, 7; balat (ideogr. TI) 12, 53; 
ba-la-ti-ya 19,21. 

baltu “living”: amUm baltu (ideogr. TI) 6, 99; 10, 8. 



“to pour out”: bulul 12,15,102; 
(ideogr. 5 AR.SAR). 


bulul-ma 22, 33; 26, 7 


balatu “to abound”: iab-la-t£ 12,56; ba-la-iu 45,9; ba- 
la-tu-um-ma 62, 7. 

baltu, bastu “abundance”: bal-ta 22,64; ba-ds-ti 12, 
56; ba-as-ta-ka 19, 24. 
bungulu: b(p)u-un-gu-hi 12, 22. 





i 4 4 


VOCABULARY 


[bami 


Ri !0 banff “to build, create 1 ’: Ii ib-ni (-. . . - v) 21,55; ib-nu- 
ku-nu-si 8, 24; ib-na-na-si-[ma?] 61, 7; ba-nu-u 12, 30, 
3i,33; 4i,3; ba-a-ni 47,4; ba-an-tu(?) 1,35; 5 i* 7 ; 
[ba]-na-at 9, 40; banat(at) ideogr. DU 21, 58; ba-ni-i 
19, 15, 22: — II 1 u-ban-ni 12, 50; — IV 1 ib-ba~ni 61, 
9; tb-ba-nu(-u?) 10, 30; ib-ba-nu-ii 61, 8. 

binutu “creature, offspring”: hi-nu-ut 61, 6. 
nabnitu “creation”: ncib-ni-ti 1, 53; 2, 48; nab-?ii-ta 9, 40. 
tabannil “handiwork”: ta-ba-an-na 12, 31. 
r02 banitu “brightness, mercy”: ba-ni-ti 1,49; 9 , 5 1 , 33 , 34 * 

rUO barn “to see, perceive”: ta-bar-ri 18, 5, 7; ta-bar-ri-i 9, 
42; 32, 10; ba-ra-a -.6, 42. 

biru “vision”: bi-ri 4, 38; 6, 83 D; 7, 19. 

birtu “glance”; birit uzni “understanding”; com¬ 
pounded with ina “between, within”; pL birati “springs”: 
bir-tum 21, 51; bi-rit (uzna du -si-na) 12, 38; bi-rit 12, 13; 
M-ra-a-ti 12, 29. 

burzigallu a vessel: kar $ atu bur-zi-gal 12, 14. 
birku “knee”: bir-ki-ya 13, 24. 
p*"Q “to lighten”; III 1 dor mu-sab-rik 20, 13. 

birku “lightning”: bir-ki 21, 80; birku 20, 13. (For 
aban birki\ see sub abnu.) 

£TQ b urasu “pine-wood; incense”: burasu 12, 9; buraSi 2, 9; 

8,20; 11,42; 12,4; 13,14; 15,24; 18,19 A; 21,74; 
31, 10; 32, 3; 33, 39; 36, 7; 51, 11; 62, 27. 

m?2 basu “to be; to have”: I 1 ta-ba-ds-si 12, 34; ibasu-zi 1, 
47; ibasd-a 1,13,40; 4,19,41; 6,113^; 7, 22, 61; 12, 
57; 19,12; 27,11 A-, 50,16; 53,26; 54,4; 55,5; 56, 
11; 57 , 6 ; 58,7; 59 ,M; 60,21; 61,16 A; ib-si 14,17; 
ib-su-u-ni 12, 81; ib-su-ni 12, BiC: ib-sa-ku 19, 20; 21, 
62; ib-sa-ki 4, 34; 6, 79; 7, 16; lib-sa-nim-ma 46, 7; li- 
ba-sa-an-ni 19,27; lu-nb-si 12,72; [baij-su-ii 21,80; 
.... .-sic-Sc 58, 2; ba-su-u 4, 32; 6, 75; 19, 16; basu-u 
6, 75 E ; 7, 13; 27, 13; 37, 11; basu-u 27, 13 CD; ba-sa-a 
62, 12: — IV 3 it-ta-nab-sa-jiim-ma 62, 14. 





GIS.§AR] 


VOCABULARY 


145 


buSu “property, possession”: buiu-ku-nu-ma 62, 4. 
pro butuktu “flood, inundation”: bu-fufe-[tum] 6, 59; butufytu 
(ideogr. A.HUL) 36, 10. 


1 


GA a plant: ^GA 19, 17. 

gdbsu “mass, volume”: gi-bis 18, 3. 

GI.GAB a drink(?)-offering: 12, 2; 15, 19; 21,28; 30,21; 

9 - 

GU.ZI a vessel: ** r * aiu GU.ZI 30, 2; 61, 10. 
ffel gallu a demon: gallu 33, 33. 

gamalu “to complete, benefit, maintain, requite 1 ’: ta- 
ga-mil-su 18, 8; ga-mil 9, 6; gam-ma-la-tci 6, 65; 27, 
15; ga-ma-la 4,31; 6,76; g&m-ma-al 13, 25; gamala 
(ideogr. Su.KAR) 6, 76 E; 7, 14; 37, 12. 
gimillu “present, gift”: gi-mil 6, 93; 7, 31; 14, 4; 51, 
7 ; 57 , 8 . 


gimiltu “gift”: gi-mil-tu 31, 10. 

gitmalu “perfect”: git-ma-lu 2, 12; 3, 10; 6, 97; 10, 7; 
11,46; 12,18; 20,8,10,14,16; 21,39,41; git-ma-him 

21, 93; 46, 13; git-mal- .12, 24. 

"1HI1 gamru “perfect”: ga-ntir 19, 8; gam-ra-a-ti 21, 79. 

gimru “the whole, totality”: gi-mir 1,53; 9,40; 46, 
13; gim-ri 12, 33; 27, 8. 
gim-ru-u(r) 12, 98. 

gassu “plaster”: gassu (ideogr. IM.PAR) 12, 9. 

TEft I * “to strengthen; to be strong”; II2 “to be mighty, 
powerful”: Ii ga-sir 6, 37; gas-[rat?] 33,10; — II 2 
ug-da-sa-ra 1, 8. 

ga§ru “strong, mighty”: ga-a$-ru 18, 20; 21, 43; ga- 
as-ru 9, 1; gas-ru 2,11; 3,10; 12, 22; 21,76; 27,1; 53, 
2; gas-ru-M-ti 47, 8; 52, 5. 

gu§uru “beam, branch”: gusuru 12, 2; 21, 28; 26, 5; 

8 . 

gi 5 Sar(*»») 12,6. 



146 


VOCABULARY 


[*da s u 


1 


pn 

nm 

in 

1H 

m 

m 

nm 



“to treat with injustice, to oppress”: id-da-sa-an-ni 11,4. 
dababu “to plan, to intrigue”: I 1 da-ba-bi 9, 47;— II 1 
dubbubu (ideogr. KA.HI.KUR.RA) 12, 1. 
dadmu “dwelling”: da-id-mi 22, 7; da-dd-mi 33, 9. 
dadu “love”: da-di 1, 37; 33. 20. 
daku “to slay”: di-ku 53, 14. 

diktu “slaughter”: di-ik-ti 53, 14. 
darft “eternal”: dd-ra-ii 1,27. 

darig “for ever”: da-ris 11, 27; ? da-a-ri-su 21, 84. 
duru “wall, fortress”: dtiru 21, 16, 26. 
dijju “pestilence, sickness”: di-fyu 12, 51, 60. 
danu “to judge”: z-dan-ni 21,46; ta-da-an 22,50; ta-dan 

2, 19; 3, 16; di-in 12, 59; 50, 11; di-ni 4, 30; 7,49; da- 
a-ni 6, 74; 7, 12; 37, 10; da-ni 4, 28. 

dinu “judgment”: di-na 7, 49; di-ni 4, 28, 30; 7, 12; 
12, 59; *3, 28; 19, 8; 30, 8; 37, 10; 50, 11; di-in 2, 19; 

3, 16; 6, 45, 74; di-in 2, 19 B. 

daianu “judge”: da-ya-na-ti 30, 8; daianu 60, 7; daian 
6, 111; 10, 15; 60, 5. 
dulu “hill(?)”: du-ul 22, 7. 

DILJBAD a plant: ^^DIL.BAD 12, 84. 
dal&liu “to disturb, to disorder”: da-li-fau 8, 27. 
dal&u “disturbed, confused”: dal-&a-ma 12, 58. 
dalifetu “disorder, confusion”: dal-fya-ti-ya n, 21. 
dalalu “to bow down, to humble oneself”: i-dal-la-la 
21, 85; a-dal-lu-ka 9, 23 i?, a-ddl-lu-ka 9, 23 (or a-tal- 
lu-ka, cf. supra p. 47); hid-lu-la 12, 91; lud-lul 1, 27; 

8 . 4 1 ; 5 . 9; 6 , 69, 94; 7, 32; 11, 40; 12, 91 C, 94; 21, 
23, 71,89; 22,67; 27,24; 28,4; 30,16; 31,6; 34.4; 
46, 8; 47, 5; 60, 2; GA.AN.SIL ( ludlul } 60, 2, 3; 
ludlul-ka (KA.TAR.ZU-&O 50, 27. 
dalilu “submission, humility”: da-lil 6, 15; dd-lil 46, 
8 ; da-li-Li-ka 1,27; 2,41; 6,69; 11,40; 12,91,94; 



dipam] 


VOCABULARY 


1 47 


21, 89; 27, 24; 28,4; 60,2; dalili-ka (ideogr. KA.TAR) 
21, 23, 71; 51, 8; dalili pl -ka (ideogr. KA.TAR.Ml 5 ) 22, 
67; KA.TAR.ZU {dalzlika) 60, 2, 3; da-li-li-ki 30, 16; 
da-li-li-ki 2, 8; 6, 94; 7, 32; 31, 6; 34, 4; d&-U-[li]-. 

38, 2; da-U-lt-ku-nu 47, 5. 
dallu “humble, submissive”: dal-la 9, 44. 
mi ta-di(tir)-im-mi i, 34; 5, 16. 

DD1 d amamu “to weep, lament”: dumum (ideogr. 5 l 5 . 5 l 5 ) 
12, 117. 

pDl damaku I i “to be favourable”: lid-mi-ik i, 24; 22, 59; 

lid-mi-ka 10, 17; lid-mz-ka 6, 115; 22, 63; — II 1 “to 
make favourable”: tudammik(ik ) 40,15; du-um-mi-ik 6, 
113; 10, 16; [ duj-um-mu-ku 29, 1. 

damku “favourable”; f. damiktu as subs, “favour”: 
damkiz 12,68; damifetu (tu) 39,9; damiktu (tu) 12,110; 
damikta(ta) 12, 113 E; damifcti(ti) 1,50; 4,7; 6,116, 
1 1 8 ; 9, 14 £, 15 B , 46, 53; I0 : l8 t 19; 22 : I 5 » 

16; 33, 35; 40, 16; damifctim(tzm) 2,5, 40; 9, 14, 15; 54, 
9; 60,22; damikii(ti)-ya 15,16; damkiiti * 1 9,50; dam- 
kati$ l 11, 26. 

dumku “favour”: dum-ki 1,22; 6,93; 7,31; 57:8; 62, 
10; dum-ka 8, 13; dum-ki -. .... 21, 66; dumku 12, 85; 
19, 23: dumki 8, 12; 12, no; 13, 21; 22, ig hu ; 50, 24. 
P"J dananu “to be strong”: li-dan-nin 53, 21. 

dannu “strong, mighty”: dan-nu 4, 19; dan-na 12, 80; 
42, 15; dan-ni 19, 17; dan-na .... 42, 13; dannu 42, 13. 
dannatu “distress”: dannati (ideogr. SAL.KAL.GA) 
9 : 35 ; 6 - 


pi 

?pi 

121 


dandannu “mighty”: dan-dan-nu 46, 16. 
DI.PAL.A ideogr.: 7, 53; 12, 1, 108. 
dapinu “strong”: da-pi-nu 21, 77. 
duppu “tablet”: duppu 1, 54; 22, 3. 

II 1 “to tear away, to remove”: dup-pi-ri 57, 15; IV 1 
be torn away”: Ud-dip-plr 1, 49. 


“to 


1 S 1 di paru “torch”: di-pa-ra-ka 1,6; di-pa-rti- .39: 11 ? 

di-par 1, 30; 39, 8; dipciru (ideogr. GLBIL.[LA]) 40, 5; 
dipdri (ideogr. GI.BIL.LA) 12, 86, 118. 







148 


VOCABULARY 


[darru 


yri darru u stroug”: dar-ri 1, 32; 5, 14. 

disu “abounding, numerous 5 ': di-sa-a-tum u, 28. 



daspu “mead": da-as-pa 57, 10. 

dispu “honey 5 ': diipu xi, 43; 12, 3; 21, 29: 30, 22; 62, 26. 
duSSupu “mead”: du-uS-Sit~pu 2, 29. 

DA.&AR ideogr. 12, xi, 14, 15. 


1 

1 u “and”: u 1, 13, 22, 23, 24, 30, 37, 40, 44, 50, 51; 2, 40; 
3, 3, S; 4, 3, 6, 15, 19, 29, 38, 41, 42, 44; 5, 12; 6, 32, 33, 
67, 73 , 75 , 76 , 83Z), 93 , 99 , 100, ”3 F-, l2 °, I2I 5 7 , ”, 19/ 
22,61; 8,16; 9,19,35,38,41,43; 10,8,9,25,30; 11, 
3, 4, 23, 27; 12, 7, 28, 29, 30 b, \ 31, 34, 36, 39, 44, 51, 56, 
57,62,64, 65, 71, 75 ( 7 , 76, 78<T, 8 i( 7 , 85(7, 86 ( 7 , 89(7, 98, 
103, 105,107, 107 113; 13,8; 16,12; 17,3; 19,7,”, 

25, 26, 29; 21, 17, 55, 67, 86; 22, 20, 39, 53, 55; 27, 11 A, 
12, 13, 14 A, 23; 30, 14; 31, 6, 10; 32, 9; 33, 3, 4, 5, 15, 
16,20,27,36; 37,9; 40,14; 46,11; 49,27; 50,8,16; 
53,4,13,26; 54,4; 55,5; 56,11; 57,6; 58,7; 59,7, 
14,18; 60,5; 61,8,10,13,1624; 62,3,15,28; ti 6, 25, 
86 ; 7,24,31,46,52; 8, 9, xi; 10,2,20; 11,39; 12,75, 
89,94,111; 19,15,17,32; 33 , 35; 38,6; 40,11; 60,3; 
61, 9. 


hi 


caw* imtu “breath, poison”: irnti 12, 63 ter ; 21, 65 ter ; imti* l 

1, 47 ter . 

abalu I 1 “to bring, to carry, to carry off, remove”: ub- 
ba-lu 53, xi, 12; u-bil 8, 7; ub-la 28, 11; 46, 3; ub-lak-ki 
57, 12 ", lu-bi-il 8, 6; — I 2 Part. “leader, ruler”: mu-ut- 
tab-bil 21, 81; mut-tab-bil 20, 9, 11; — IV 2 “to be re¬ 
moved”: lit-ia-bil 1, 46; 5, 6; 33, 30.. 


ib) 


aladu “to bear, to beget”: Ii a-lid-ya 11, 38; a-lit-ti-ya 
11,39; a-Ht-tum {la-a-lit-tum?') 6,47; — II 2 ii-tal-la- 
da 19, 13. 

ilittu “child, offspring”: i-lit-ti 1,31; 2,12; 3, 10; 5, 
13; 6, 18; 22, 2; 27, 3; 46, 14; i-lit 33, 47. 



VOCABULARY 


149 


Siptu] 

K*D1 


K31 




mi 

mi 

mi 

•P 

pn 

|tfl 



“to shine forth”; III 1 “to glorify”: iu-sa-pi 2, 8, 41; 5, 8; 
6, 69,94; 7,32; 21, 23,71; 23,5; 30, 15; 50,27; [lu]-u- 
sa-pi 16, 7; lu-sa-pa 30, 14; U-sa-pu-u 30, 17. 
supu “glorious, mighty”: dt-pu-u 2, 15; 3, 13; 18, 20; 
21, 76, 93; 52,5; sii-pu-u 1, 16; 6, 132; sk-pii-u 9, 1; su~ 
pa (r)-ta 27, 5. 

ash u to go out”: 1 1 a-d-ka 6, 23; asi-ka (ideogr. UD.DU) 

6, 23 A; — III 1 su-sa-a- .61,18; — III 2 u$-ti - 

si-ma 11, 5. 

situ “exit; offspring”: si-i-ti 6, 59. 
sitas “beginning, rising”: si-ta-as 9, 41. 

akaru I 1 “to be of value”: li-kir 4, 4; 12, 70; ? li- 

ka- .12, 55; — III 1 “to consider valuable, to 

esteem, to honour”: ta-sak-ka-ri 2, 21 B m , li-sa-ki-ru- 
in-ni 19, 25; li-sa-ki-ru-in-m-ma 2, 40. 

I 1 “to go down”: in-ur-dam-ma 21, 14, 15; — III 1 “to 
bring down”: su-ru-du 2, 22. 

aru I 2 “to bring, to carry, to rule”: i-tar-ri-in-ni 8, 16; 
i-iar-ra- .21, [2]. 

arfeu “month”: arki 1, 12, 39; 4, 17, 39; 6, 84 E, 113 F ; 

7, 20, 60; 19, 10; 27, 11 A ; 50, 14; 53, 24; 54, 2; 55, 3; 
56, 9; 57, 4; 58, 6; 59, 12; 60, 19; 61, 16. 

arki “behind”: ar-ki-ki 8, 12; arki 12, 6; arki-su 12, 100; 
arki-ya 53, 7; arki-ya 15, 8- 
urku “back”: ur-ki-ka 18, 12; nr-ka-ya 53,11. 
arku “green”: arku 12, 2; 21, 28; 31, 8. 

urkitu “green herb”: ur-ki-tu 21, 87; Samurfeitu 12,30. 
asabu “to dwell, to inhabit”: a~si-bat 4, 15, 24; 6, 71; 7, 
9; 37 , 7; a-H-bu n f 35; a-Hb 43, 5* 
subtu “place, dwelling-place”: di-bat 15, 15. 
suttu “dream”: suttu 6, 116; sutta 12, 113 ^ 5 *; sutti 4, 38; 
6, 83 DE\ 7, 19; suitu-u-a 12, 57; sunati* 1 1, 25; 6, 7; 
10,18; 12,64; simatF-u-a 22,63; sunatF-u-a 6,115; 
10, 17. 

siptu “incantation”: dpiu 1, 1, 29, 53; 2, 11; 3, 10; 4, 9, 
24; 5, 11: 6, 1, 18, 36, 71, 96, 97, 132; 7, 9, 34; 8, 22; 9, 





* 5 ° 


VOCABULARY 


[stiiuru 


i; 10,7,27; II, 1; 12,16,17,105,117; 13,15; 15,23; 
18,20; 19,34; 20,8; 21,34,76; 22,1,33,35,70; 27, 
1; 30,27,30,31; 37,7; 38,5; 42,26; 46,11; 48,17; 
50, 1, 28 B , 29; 51, 11; 52, 5; 60, 5; 61, 5; 62, 31; sipat 

61, 20, 21; sipat- .16, 2; sipat-ku-nu (ideogr. MU) 

62, 6. 

nni suturu “mighty, prodigious”: sii-tu-ru 12,21; Su-tu-rai 
I, IO; 60, 12 . 


T 


ZAG a species of flesh: - ! *>«ZAG 12, 7; 62, 28. 

pn “to break loose, to burst forth’ 1 : li-zi-fea-am-ma 18, 15; 

li-zi-kam-ma 18, 15 A. 

'yi'l zaiaru “foe 11 : za-ai-ri 46, 19. 

zirutu “hate 11 : zi-rn-ti 12, 106. 

ro? 1 1 “to be bright, to be pure”: za-ka-a 57, 10; — II 1 u to 
brighten, to purify 11 : zu-uk-ki 11, 21. 


ns? am “to name, call, speak, command”: I 1 izaka- 
ra(ra)-ni 18, 11; ta-za-kar 19,14; tazakar(ar) 12,120; 
40, 16; az-za-[kar?] 61, 14; — IV 1 izzakara(ra) 50, 9. 
zikru “name, word, cry”: zik-ri 2, 34; 8, 14; zik-ri 1, 
43; zi-kir 12, 79; 22, 2 1 B; si-kir 22, 21; ztk-ri-su 1,44; 
33, 27; zi-kir-ka 5, 8: 21, 82; 22, 8; zik-ri-ka 22, 10 B; 
si-ik-ri-ka 22, 10; zi-kir-hi 30, 14; zik-ri-ya 33, 25. 


zaliptu 


“wickedness”: [za?]-lip-tu 11, 12. 


not? zimu “appearance, countenance”: zi-mu-u-a 8, 10. 


ID? zumru “body”: zumru 12,102; zumri-ya 1,45; 30,12; 
33? 28; zumri-ya 12, 60; 49, 14; 50, 18; 53, 27, 28. 

mj! zinu “to be angry”: iz-nu-u 30, 10; iz -...6, 55. 

zinft “angry”: zi-nu-u 2, 24 D; zi-nu-u 2,24; zi-na-a 
3:2, in; zi-ni-i 4, 36; 6, 81; 7, 18; zi-ni-tu 4, 45; zi-ni- 
ium 6, 87; 7, 25; zi-ni-ti 4,36; 6,81; 7, 18; 12, 111; zi- 
nu-ii 6, 67; 27, 23. 

p? zananu “to rain”: III 1 [mu-sa]-az-nin 49, 30;. -nin 

*2, 27. 





harr&mi] 


VOCABULARY 


151 


PjpT zakapu I 1 “to erect”; II 1 “to impale”; — 1 3 uz-m- 
na-ka-pu 53, 9; uz-za-na-kup 53, 10. 
tizkaru u lofty, noble”: ti-iz-ka-ru 12,19 A; 27, 1; 29,3; 
ti-iz-ka-ru g, 2; tiz-ka-ru 12, 19. 


npt 1 ‘to sting”: II i u-zak-kat-su 12, 121. 

NTIT ziru “seed”: zinc (ideogr. KUL) 30, 14; zinc (ideogr. 
Sf.KUL) 9. 37, 38; zzr (ideogr. KUL) 11, 44; 33, 8. 
ZI.TAR.RU.DA ideogr.: 7, 54; 12, 1, 108. 


n 


bigallu “abundance”: bigadi 61, 12 A. 
mn b^du I 1 “to rejoice”; II 1 “to make joyful”: feu-nd 8, 16. 
hadu “joyful”: fea-da(ta?)-a 12, 57. 
badi§ “joyfully”: &ad-is(?) 1, 24. 

bidutu “joy”: bidutu-ka 6, 128; 10, 4, 24; 42, 22; Jji- 

duiu -.7, 3; feidutu-ki 3, 5; 8, 18; faiduti- .35, 6. 

ba-tu “to sin”: ib-iu-u 46, 1: ib-tu-u 18, 8; 28, 9. 
bittu, bHu “sin”: bi-it-ti 9, 42; bi-P* 18, 8. 
bititu “sin”: b^U-iu 12, 78; bi-fi-t* 2,39; 14,6; 27, 21; 
50, 18; bi-H-ti 27, 21 A; 36, 3; bi’ta-ii-[ya] 50, 22. 

""ppj b^iadu “giver, bestower”: b&-ai-&d 12, 30. 

-m 1 l to rule, to govern”: ba-i-du 12, 28. 

TTI b^iru “spouse, husband”: b&- -i-ri-ki 1,42; ba-i-ri-ki 33, 23. 


c6n 


Ncn 

NDn 

pn 


birtu “spouse, wife”: fai-ir-tu 6, 126; 37,4; 10, 23. 

baiapu “to be clad”: Jia-lip 46, 15. 

balaku I 1 “to perish”; II 1 “to destroy”: bul-lik 21, 64; 
btd-li-ki 2, 6; [mu-kal-lik] 46, 19; Jjid-lu-ku 8, 24. 
hulku “destruction”: b^^bu-u 27, 13 A. 
hulukkfr “destruction”: bu-lu-uk~ku-u 27, 13. 
himitu “butter”: bi^dtu 11, 43; 12, 3; 21, 29; 30, 22; 62, 26. 
z-bi-s'u-u(i) 53, 10. 

harbasu “storm, fury”: bar-ba-su 2, 13; 3, 11. 
harranu “way, road”: bar-ra-ni 42, 10; barrani * 1 59, 3; 
62, 18. 





*52 


VOCABULARY 


[kur&su 


hurasu "‘gold”: frurasu 12, g, 12, 71; 25, 8; 59, 8; ai,m bu- 
rasu 12, 12. 

TUI bararu “to dig, to plough”: ? fya-ra-ar-ra 49, 31, 33. 

inn ba-rru a wood: karri (ideogr. SlM.SlS) 33, 39. 

Ehn ^ur§u, ijursu “mountain, hill”: faur-sa-nu 22,42; four- 
sa-a-ni 12, 28; 21, 83. 

WlH huS§u a ceremonial robe: $ubatufy U ssii 12, 6* 

nnn ta btu “victory”: iaU-ti-i 46, 17. 


0 

iT© t*b& u to approach”: Ii itihi 12,1; itifji-su 12,119; Hi- 
fea-a 12, 62, 64, 74; iiifau-ni {ithu-nir) 7, 57; 12, 63; 21, 
65; itifaa-a 11,24; 21, 22; — II 1 lu-taU-fyi 6, 14. 

ti&i “near”: ti-ify 46, 11. 

tabu I 1 “to be good, to be acceptable”: li-tib 2, 34; 8, 
25; H-ti-ba 10, 4; — II 1 “to make good, to gladden”: 
li-tib-ka 10, 5; li-tib-bu 6, 130; 8, 19; 9, 26; tu-ub 8, 6, 16. 

tabu “good”: ta-a-bu 8, 1; 11, 32; ta-a-ba 2, 28 D ; ta- 

a-ab 9, 8 ; . -a-ba 30, 5; tabu (ideogr. DUG.GA) 

2,28; 12,52; 18,15; 21,90; 22,58; 50,17; ta-ab-tii 49, 
6; ta-ab-ium 12, 74 C\ tabtu(tu) ideogr. DUG 7, 53; tab- 
tum(tum) ideogr. DUG.GA 12,74; ta-bu-tum 12, 82 (T; 
iabuii * 1 (ideogr. DUG.GA) 12, 82 ; tabati * 1 (ideogr. DUG) 
1, 13,40; 27, 11^; tabati$ l (ideogr. DUG.GA) 4, 18,40; 
6, 84 A, 113 F\ 7,21,61; 19,11; 50,15; 53,25; 54,3; 
55,4; 5^ 10; 57,5; 58,7; 59, 13; 60, 20; 61, 16A; 62, 11. 
tabtu “blessing”: tabii .... 13, 24. 
tubtu “friendliness, kindness”: tu-ub-ba-ti 21, 88. 

T 1 D taradu “to expel”: iu-ru-ud 21, 64. 





*ibiru] 


VOCABULARY 


*53 


1 ' idu “hand, side”: i-di-a 10,32; idi-ya 9, 18; i-da-ai 9, 18 B. 
PI. id&ti “forces, powers”: i-da-tu-u-a 6,114; 10, 17; 
idat^-u-a 12, 58; idati * 1 1, 13. 40: 4, 18, 40; 6, 113 F\ 
7, 21, 61; 12. 64; 19, 11; 27, ii A; 50, 15; 53, 25; 54,3; 
55, 4; 56,10; 57, 5; 58, 7; 59, 13; 60, 20; 61, 16 A; 62, 
10, 12. 

idu “to know”: ti-di-z 4, 31; 6. 76: 7, 14; 37, 12; lu-di-ma 
(fr. rm?) 22, 66. 

mftdo “understanding, wise”: mu-di-i 13, 15; mu-did(?) 
12, 27; mudu-u ii, i8 bis ; mudii-u 11, iS£T bis ; 22, 37; 61, 
i5 bls ; mu-da-ai 4, 13. 

Oil umu “day”: u-mi 21, 86; ii-mi 6, 5, 6; 7, 38; 12. 59; 21, 
78; 53,3; u-mi 22, 56; 53, 6: u-nm 1.17,18,23; inn 
61, n bls , i2 bls ; umu 1, 18; umi 1. 12, 39; 4, 17, 39; 6, 
84^, 113 F; 7,20,60; 13,26; 19,10; 26,5; 27,11 A; 
30, 20; 50. 14; 53, 24; 54, 2; 55, 3; 56, 9; 57, 4; 58, 6; 
59, 12; 60, 19; 61, I 1 qaater^ J 2 his^ j5 ; u-mi-Sll-ma 12. I 18; 
u-mi-ya 6, 118; u-mi-ya 10. 19; umi* l -ya 5, 3; 8, 17. 
umiSam £l dai!y”: u-mi-sam 19, 30; 49,11; U-mi-sam 8, 16. 
immu “day. daylight”: im-ma 9,43. 

imnu “right, right side”: im-nu-uk-ki 8, 13; im-ni-ya 9, 
16 B\ imni-y'a 6, 122; 9, 16; 10, 21: 22, 17. 

I$ipu “to add to, augment, Increase 11 : II i lu-us-sip 8, 13. 

2T* y^si, yati “me 11 : ya-a-si 12, 109 21,20,22,88; 49,10; 

53,4; ya-si 7, so; 13,20; 22,65; 34.3? J'&-& 12,65, 
109; 15, 10; ya-a-ii 2,7; 6,72; 7, 10; 37,8; ya-a-tu-u(l) 
2, 35 * 

isu “to have; to be”: lisa-a (ideogr. TUK) 21,69; i-su-21 
2, 23; i-sa-a 12, 58. 

I 1 “to go straight, to advance, to succeed, be prosper¬ 
ous”: li-sir 12, 75; 22,59; Hsir-ma (ideogr. SI DI) 12, 
100; li-si-ra 8,8; lu-si-ra 2,36; li-si-ra 6, 114; 10, 17; 
— II1 r mu-sa-ri 56,5; — III 1 “to guide, to bless”: 
fu-si-is-si-ri 33, 18; su-su-ru 2, 20; su-su-ra 3, 16; — III 2 

v 



iS4 


VOCABULARY 


[iiaru 


“to lead, to direct, to rule”: tus-ti-sz-ri 32, 11; tus-ti-sir 
2, 20; 3, 16: 12, 37; lu-us-tz-$ir 12, 89; miis-U-ts-ru 12, 
29; mus-ti-sir 1, 53; 6, 99; 10, 8; mus-ti-si-ra-a-ti 30, 9. 
isarti '‘straight, right’’: i-sa-ra 22, 60; i-sa~ru-tii 53, 5. 
i§aris “rightly”: i-sa-ris 6 , 117; 10, 18. 
misaru “righteousness”: mi-sa-H 1. 22: mzsari (ideogr. 

5 a.SI.DI) 1, 24. 

mi§aris “rightly”: mis-sar-ris 11, 18. 




NfcO = s * 

]£C HI 11 1 “to pay homage, to humble oneself”: us-ki-in-ma 
62, 30; ns-kin-ma 33, 41. 

KU.A.TIR a species of grain: 2, 27; 12, 3; 15, 20; 21, 
29; 30, 2 1; 62, 26. 

D12D kabasu “to tread”: ka-bi-su 62, 8, 9. 
kibsu “path”: kib-sa 22, 60. 

*■*02 kibratu “quarter of heaven, region”: kib-ra-a-ti 2, 43; 

5, 12; 6, 38; 33, 7, 12, 47; kibraii '* l 1, 30. 

J-QD kabtu “weighty, important, powerful”: kab-tu 12,21; 

kab-[iar] 6, 92; 7, 30; kabti(ti) ideogr. DUGUD 1, 44; 
33, 27; kabtu (ideogr. DUGUD) 12, 22; kabti (ideogr. 
DUGUD) 22, 10; kabti (ideogr. 1LIM) 53, 16; ka-bit-ti 
g, 10 B: kab-ia-a-ium 46, 6. 

kabittu “disposition”: ka-bit-ta-ka 21,68; ka-bit- 
ta- .30, 6. 

kabuttu?: [ka?]•bu-ui-ta-ka-ma 61, 19. 
KU.DUB.DUB.BU: 30, 24; 40, 12; 62, 29. 
KUD.SIR(W): 12,10. 

X 2 k urn mu “thy, thine”: ku-um-ma 29, 1. 

kanu I 1 “to be firm, to stand fast”: li-kun 12, 88 C; 
II 1 “to establish, to place, to set”: tukan(an) 12, 2, 4; 
15,18, 19, 22; 21,28; 30,21,23; 31,9; 40,9; 62,25, 27; 

. (an) 11,43; H-kin 14 , 5 ; mu-kin 2,47; kun- 

Hlt (?) 12, 76. 





kirntuj 


VOCABULARY 


155 


kinu “sure, certain, true”: ki-i-nu 15,7; ki-ni 6,86 D\ 
ki-nim 1,51; 4, 44; 6,86; 7,24; 19,32; 33< 3^; 5 2 , 2 * 

kinis “truly”: ki-nis 2, 32, 37; 6, 62; 7, 46; 8, 4; 12, 
1x2; 22, 23; 27, 19. 

kittu “truth, righteousness”: kit-tu 9, 13; kit-tfo 9, 13 B; 
kit-tum 54, 8; kii-ti 1, 24; 6,45; 7, 56; 12,58; 22,9, 
M; 54 , 5 - 

kaianu “continual, constant”: ka-ai-an 9, 18; 50, 24. 
kaian “continuously”: ka-ai-an 12,117. 

ki “when, as, according to”: ki-i 8, 1; 10,35; *3, 5°; 
18, 9, 11. 

ki’am “thus”: ki am 12, 104. 

kima “like, when, as”: ki-ma 8, 15; 9, 20; 11,6^,38; 
12, 73 C, 81 C, 82 C, 83 C: 32, 8; 50, 28 B; kima 1, 6, 10; 
4,29; 6,735.7,11: 11,6,25; 12,34,35,50,69,70,71, 
73, 81, 82, 83; 13, 20; 37, 9; 60, IX. 

KA.IZI a species of flesh: ^KA JZI 12, 7 ; 40, 10; 62, 28. 

""p? kakku “weapon”: mkakku 12, 23. 

KXJ.KU ideogr.: 12,101; 30,25. 

2D2 kakkabu “star”: kakkab 7, 16; 19, 18: kakkabani^ 6, 78; 
39, 6; 62, 17, 18; kakkabani (MUL.MUL) 8, 22. 

KA.LU.BLDA ideogr.: 7, 53; 12, 1, 108: 47 ^ 3 * 

kalu “all”: kal 53,12; kalit (ideogr. KAK) 7, 54; kalu 
(ideogr. KAK.A.BI) 62, 23; kal (ideogr. KAK) 4, 9, 
ii; 12, 113; 53, 8 Ws ; 59, 1- 

kalamu “all, of every kind”: ka-la-ma 10, 27; kala- 
ma CK.KK.K-md) 19, 9. 

kali§ “altogether, completely”: ka-li$ g, 7, 8. 

y» “to be complete”; III 1 “to make complete”: II 1 u-kdl- 
lil 11, 10; — III x suk-lul 12, 53. 

kullatu “the whole”: kul-lat 2, 18; 3, 15; 18, 5; 21, 
52; 42, 3; knl-lat-si-na 32, 12. 

HD- kimtu “family”: kim-ti-ya 53, 13;. -ti-yh 11, 23; 

.... -ii-ya 11, 23 C. 





VOCABULARY 


[kamalu 


156 


kamalu “to be angry”: kam-lu 4, 37; 6,8 2 E: 7,19; 
kam-lu 6, 82, 88; 7, 26. 

ww- karaasu “to bow down, to humble oneself”: kan(k6.m?)- 
su 1, 11 ; 50, 4 ; kam-sa-ku 59,9; kan(kaml)-sa-ku 1,21; 

. -sa-ku 22, 52; - I 2 kit-mu-sa 9, 43. 

II 1 “to prepare carefully”: kun-ni 31,10. 

kanu “strong(?V': ka-nu-tu 2,45: ka-nu-ut 1,29; 4, 14; 
5? it? 9. 30. 

-p^ kunukku “seal”: abnu kutvukku 12, 13; ^kunukku 12, 12, 
73 ; abnu hukunukku 12 , 73 C- 
KAN.KAL a plant: ^KAN.KAL n, 25. 

“D 2 kasu “to bind”; II 1 “to bind fast, to fetter”: u-ka-as-si 


re 


212 

m2 

ns 


I ! 


□22 

P 2 

□*2 


13, 23 - 

kasitu 4 "fetter, bonds 1 ’: ka-si-ti 30, 11. 

KAS.SAG a drink-offering: 2,10; 6,96; 12,5; 22,33; 

30, 23; 32, 3; 51, 11. 
kaspu “silver”: kaspu 59, 8. 

kuppu “well, source”: kup-pi 12, 29. 

kapru “bowl”: kap-ra 40, 9. 

karu “wall, fortress”: kar 22, 7; kari 42, 15. 

karabu “to be favourable, to bless”: lik-ru-ba-ka 6,129; 

g, 25 ; 22, 25; lik-ru-bn- .6o, 17; lik-ru-bu-ki 3, 6; 

8 , 19 . 

ikribu “prayer”: ik-tPbi 7,36,45; 33,5; ik-ri-bi n, 

27 ; ik-ri- . 35 ? I2 - 

kirubuf?) “favourable(?)”: ki-m-ub 8, 1. 

karubu “great, mighty”: ka-ru-bu 49, 16. 

I 2 “to draw near”: ik-tar 11, 19. 
kfiru “need, distress”: ku-u-ru 22, 53. 
kurmafu “food”: kurmat-su 22, 34; kurmati * l 31, 9. 
kar&nu “wine”: karani 30, 2. 

kurunnu a drink made from sesame-seed: ku-ru-[un- 
na] 57, 10. 

kasa, kasi “thee, thyself”: ka-a-sa 6,49; 17,4; ka- . 

1, 21 ; ka-sa 1, 22 : ka-a-si 31, 5; 33, 13; ka -. 

7? 16; 39? 2. 








*Ia’atu] VOCABULARY 157 

TIED kasadu u to attain to, to capture, to overcome”: iksud- 
an-ni 21, 22; iksuda-ni 12,65; lu-uk-su-ud 8, 18; 9, 12, 
48; 54, 7; lu-vk-sti-da 8, 13; luksud(ud) 22, 13. 

HI?™ kisadu “neck”: kisadi-su 12, 116; kisadi-ya 12, 67. 

KI§DA L e. riksu “knot”: 12, 5 (?). 6(?), q6(?); i6, ii; 18, 
19; 21, 92; 22, 69; 28, 6; 34, 6; 38, 3; 39, 5; 41, 2; 42, 
25; 46, 10; 47, 7; 52, 4. 

kispu “magic, enchantment”: kis-pi 7, 50; 12, 106, 109; 
kis-pi-ya 50, 22; UH 22, 12. 
kaSsapu “sorcerer”: kas-sa-pi 12, 62, 81C. 
kassaptu “sorceress”: kas-sap-ti 12, 62, 81C; kas-sap- 
tum 12, 62 BC. 

kasasu: I 1 zk$us(?)-an-ni (ideogr. U§.TJ§) 53, 8;— IV 1 
naksusu(?)-ni (ideogr. US.llS) 22, 12. 

kissatu “host, multitude, the whole”: ki$-$a-ti 3,6; 6, 
129; 8,19; 9,25; 53,3: kis-sat 1, 53; kissat (ideogr. 
§AR) 62, 1. 

kaskaSSu “strong”: kas-kas-sii 21, 39,41; kas-ka-su 
20, 14, 16; kas-kas 27, 4. 


mb 


la “not”: la i, 9, 1 Q bis ; 2,14,20,21; 3,12,16; 5,9; 6, 
47(?), 66 bis , 122; 10,21; 11, 3, 4, io bis , 12; 12, 19 A, 23(7), 
74C, 82C, 96; 13,4,7,11.30; 20,9,11,15,17; 21,9, 
22 his , 35, 37, 40, 41; 22, 22; 27, 14; 42, II b!s , 18; 46, 18; 
60, 7, 8, 15; 61, 18; la 1, 13, 40; 4, 18, 40; 6, 84.Z?, 1 13F; 
7, 21, 53, 61; 11, 18; 12, 52, 68, 74, 82, 96 D\ 19, 11; 27, 
11 A\ 50,15,17; 53, 7< 2 55 54 , 31 55-41 5 6 , i°; 57,51 
58, 7; 59, 13, 21; 60, 20; 61, 15, 16 A; 62, 11. 

la’ibu “to oppress”: la--bu 12, 51; la--bu-ma 12,53. 

1 i’u “strong”: li- -u 12, 20; li--a 2, 21; li-- .13, 

4; 21, 40, 41 (?); li--at 32, 14. 

la’fi? “strong”: Id-h 4, 12; Id-tic 4, 9,11. 

Ittu “strength”: li-i-ti 46, 17. 

“to burn”: la-it 21, 42; 60, 5. 




158 


VOCABULARY 


[libbu 


xb libbu “heart”: lib-bi 8, 16; 13, 22; 27,22; libbu 6,11; 
35, 6; libbi 11, 44; 12, 8, 11, 116; libbu-su 4, 37; 6, 88; 
7. 26; lib-ba-ka 11, 38; lib-ba-ka 6, 130; 9, 26; 12, 88; 

21, 68; 27, 20; 28, 12; 46, 5; lib-bi-ka 4, 7; libba-ka 9, 
26 B; 27, 20 A\ lib-ba-ki 8, 19; libbu-ki 3, 6; 30, 6; 

libbi- .8, 6; 37,3; Ub-bi-ya 11,5; 30, 13; libbi-ya 

9, 14B; 11, 5 A; libbi-ya g, 14; 22, 15: Ub-ba-su-nu 33, 18. 

rob t- to enclose, to surround”: II i lu-ub-ba-ku 12, 56. 
pS labanu “to cast down”: IV 2 il-tal-bu-nin-ni 11, 3 A\ 27, 
14; it-tal-ban-ni 11, 3. 

libittu “brick”: libit 21, 26. 

« ' 

ttt> 1 ab 4 Su “to clothe oneself, be clothed”: 1 2 lit-bu-su 3, 
11; lit-bu-su 2. 13; 46.15; lit-bu-sa 12,53; lit-bii-si-Su 
53, i6- 

lubuStu “clothing”: lubustu (ideogr. SIG) 53, 9; lu- 
busti* l (KU.ZUN) 53, 16. 

if? 16 precative particle; “or”: lu-u 6,118; 9,18, 20,21 B\ 10,19; 
lu-u 8, 9, 11, 15; 12, 97 D-, lu 8, i2 b!s ; 11, 16, 17; 12, 97 bis ; 
13, 10; 16, 1 i bis ; 18, i9 b!s ; ig, 28; 21, 22 bis , 25, 26 bu , g2 bis ; 

22. 6g bis ; 28, 6 bis ; 30, 14; 34, 6 bis ; 38, 4 bis ; 39, 5 b!s ; 41, 
2 bis ; 46, iO bis ; 47, 7 bis ; 50, 24; 52, 4 Ws ; 53, 13, 14, 15. 

li’u “tablet”: «« li- -um 10, 35. 


LA.HAR {la-bar?) “grain(?)”: ilu la-f}ar(?) 12, 30. 
ihb lallartu “wailing, loud crying”: lallartu 1, 20. 

lamadu “to learn”: i-lam-ma-du 1, 9, 19; i-lam-mad 11, 
9, it; lil-ma-da 1, 43; 33, 26; lim-[da] 4, 30. 
jD*? limnu “evil”: lim-nu 12, 62, 77C, 119; 50, 19, 23; 51, 16; 
57,16; Ihn-na 12,57; fan- .21,64; limnu 12,67; 


limni 12, 66; limuttum(tum) 12, 74 £ 7 ; Ihnutti(ti) 12, 74; 
50, 17; limutfan(tim) 2, 6; 12, 68; limuttu 15, 9; 61. 4; 
limutti 12, 66; limutti (ideogr. HUL.GAL) 61, 12; lim- 

nu-tu 10,3; lim-nu-H 8, 24; 49, 13; lim-nu- .47, 

2; limnuti* 1 12,63,81c; limnuti(ti) 7,51; limniti* 1 1, 
J 3 , 4 °; 4,18,40; 6, 84 if, 113 .F; 7,21,61; 12,56; 19, 
11; 27, 11 A; 50, 15; 53, 25; 54, 3; 55, 4; 56, 10; 57, 5; 
5 ®, 7 i 59 , 1 3 ? 60, 20; 61, i 6 ^ 4 ; 62, 10, 11, 14; limniti^-ya 
12,73; limniti^-ya 12,83; lim-na-ti(?) 58,4. 





m&gira] 


VOCABULARY 


159 


cdS 

ddS 


p'h 


"IKiD 

"fcfeD 

IX) 


lumnu “evil”: lum-ni 62, 10, 11; lu-tnun 22, 54; lumun 
1, 12, 13, 39, 40; 4,17,18,39,40; 6, 113 F his ; 7,20,21, 
60,61; 12,1,64,65; 19,10,11; 27, n^ b,s ; 50,14,15; 

53 , 2 4 5 25 ; 54,2,3; 55 , 3,45 56 , 9 , to; 57 , 4 , 5 ; 5^,6, 
7; 59,12,13; 60,19,20; 61,16, lb A; 62, i6 bis , 17, 18, 
19, 20; himnu(mt)-u-ci 12. 76. 

lamassu U guardian deity"’: llu lamassu 8,12; 12,110; 22,19. 
lasaxnu: ? a-la-su-um 18,12. 

lapatu “to surround”: II 1 lu-ufi-fiu-ia-ku-ma 12, 56; — 
III 2 ? us-i&l-fii- .21,25. 

liku u to receive, to take”: ialaki(ki)-ma 12, 8, talaki 30, 
26 [r tiliki ]; lil-ki 1,43; 33, 26; li-ki 18,14; 21,21; 
23, 3; li-hi-ma 2, 33; lifei-ma 2, 33 Z); li-ki-i 6, 80; 8, 
4; //££-/ 3,2; 4, 35; 6 : 80 £; 7, 17; li-kat 9, 39; 33, 5. 

liganu “tongue”: li-sa-[nu] 6,33; lisanu 22,55; 

12, 66; lisanu-su 12, 121; lisani- .4, 20. 

D 

MA: ^ 4 IA 12, 5. 

ma’du “many”: ma- -du 7, 47. 

ma’dutu, midutu “great quantity”: ma--du-ti 6, 78; 
7, 16; 19, 18; 53, 6; ma-du-ti 1, 23. 

maru “son”: maru (ideogr. DU.US) 46, 14; 56, 3; mari 
(ideogr. DU) 1, 42; 4, 48; 33, 23; mar (ideogr. DU) 2, 
26 D; 22,9, 22; 50, 12; 59, 17. 

martu “daughter”: marat (ideogr. DUJ§AL) 61, 5. 

If 1 “to send, despatch; to rule”: u-ma--ir-ma 1, 25; 

u-ma- -ir-an-ni 12,99; mti-ma--tr 19,7. 
magiru “to be favourable; to listen to, receive favour¬ 
ably”: mu-gu-ur 21, 21; ma-ag-rat 8,15; 9, 20; magrat(at) 
14, 13; ma-ga-ru 8, 9; ma-ga-ra 9, 19; 13, 8; 22, 20; 
magara 19, 2g bis ; magari (r simt) 26,5; 30,20; GIS.TUK 
35 ? 10* 

magiru “favourable, willing, obedient”: ma-gi-ri 33, 
16; ma-gir 6, 120. 




i6o 


VOCABULARY 


[mil 


yQ mu “water”: mil n, 43; * 2 , 2, 3 ; 1 5 1 * 8 ; 21, 28, 29; 30, 
2i ? 22; 31, 8; 33, 39; 62, 26; 53, 17; 62, 24. 

mu§u “night”: mu-si 22, 63; wto' 1, 20, 26; 9, 43; 12, 2; 
21, 28, 86; 31, 8; 53, 8. 

HID nritu “dead”: amUu mitu 6, 99; 10, 8; 28, 8; 59, 21. 

MI.HI a species of flesh: 12, 7; 62, 28. 

raibfiu a drink (?)-offering: mi-ify-Jja 8, 21; 40, 12. 

""irrO 1 1 oppose; to take, accept; to implore”: am-four-ka 

50,20; lim-Uu-ri 10,31; lirn-fyii-ru- .60,16; Urn- 

bu-ru-ka-ma 46,4; mu-bur 2, 33; 50, 21; mub-ra-an-ni 
61,17; mufa-ri-ma 4,-35; nmb-ri-in-ni-nia 6,80; 7,17; 
ma-fai-rat 9, 39; mafcrai 22, 34; — II 1 u-ma-bir-ki 57, 
11; — IV 1 itn-mab m ba-ru 2, 14; 3, 12. 

mafiru “before”: ? . -bar 6, 30; mab-ra-ka 50, 4; 

ma-bar-ka 9,23; 21,11,62; 22,57; 2 5, 4*, ma-h&r- . 

21, 21; ma-bar-ku-nu 7, 48. 

tamharu “battle”: tam-ba-ri 27, 2; 46, 18; . 


21, 40. 

malu “to fill; to be full”: ma-lu-u 2, 13; ma-lu-u 1, 7; 
2. 13 5 ; 3,11; — II 1 u-mal-Ii 13, 24; — III 11 1 us- 
mal-la 21, 59. 

mala “as many as”: ma-la 11, 8; 62, 12. 

? mi-Iim-ma 11, 18. 




maliku “arbiter, prince”: ma-li-ku 6, 25; 50, 7; ?na-li-ki 

1, 34; 5i 6, l 9 - 

milku “counsel”: mil-ka 1, 14; ?ni-lik-su 1, 19; mi-lik- 
su 1, 9; mi-lik-ka 27, 7. 

MU.MU a priest: amV »MU.MU 60, 3. 


□D mamma, mimrna “whosoever, whatsoever”: ma-am-ma 

12, 98; ma-am-man 60, 8; ma- .1, 9, 19; 

mimma (ideogr. KIN) 12, 62, 67, 77 C, ii9 bis ; 50, 23; 

57, 15, 16. 


mimma SumSu “of whatever kind; anyone, any¬ 
thing”: minima sum-su 7, 52; mimma sumsu (ideogr. 
SA.NAM.MA) 7,55; 13,8; 21,89. 
mamlu “strong”: ma-am-iu 46, 13. 







main] VOCABULARY 1 61 

|D mannu “who”: man-nu n, 9, 10, 11. 

HjD nianu “to repeat, recite*’: limnu(nu) 60, 4; munu(nu) 2, 
10; 15, 23; 18,19^; 24,7; 25,7; 32,4; 52,4; mumi(nu)- 
ma 12, 117; 33, 41; mium 12, 103; munu-ma 6, 96; 11, 
45; 307 27; 82, 30; munu-su 12, 16. 

minutu “repetition, recital, incantation”: minutn(tu) 2, 
10; ii, 45; 40, 13; 62, 30. 

min it u: mi-ni-ia ig, 23. 

massu “ ruler (?)”: massu-u 22, 2; [inassu]-u 22, 2 A. 

ISO massaru “watch, guard”: ma-sar 12, 105, 113. 

masartu “watch”: masartu-su (ideogr. IN.NUN) 53,21. 
npo makatu “to fall*’: ma-ak-tum 6, 44, 

|HD marsu “sick”: mar-su 22,11; amllH marsu 12,100; amUu marsi 
12, 16. 

mursu “sickness, disease”: mu-ur-si 21, 44; mursu 1, 
45; 7,53; 12, 52; 30,12; 33,28; 50,27; mursi 

12, 1; murus 12, 60; mursi-ya 5, 5. 

sumrusu “diseased”: sum-ni-su 22,11; sum-ru -. 

39 , 16. 

marustu “misfortune, disaster, sickness”: marustu 7,53; 
12,49; 22,52; 30,7; marusti 18, 14; marusti~ya 18, 14 Z>\ 

n^D niasu “to forget”: I 1 ma-si-i 6, 66; — IV 1 im-mas-si 
60, 10;. -ma-si 5, 7. 

masmaSu a priest: mas-mas 12, 88, 94; 60, 4. 

*)\[fO im-sir(?) 33, 6. 

HD niatu “land”: ma-a-ti 9,6; 52,5; mail 6, 112; 10, 15; n, 
28; 12,85; mati-ya 13,25; mati-yh 1,13; 4,19,41: 6, 
H3^; 7,22,61; 19,12; 50,16; 53,26; 54,4; 55,5; 
56,11; 57,6; 59,14; 60,21; 61,16 A; mati-a 1,40; 27, 

iu 4 ; 58, 7; ma-ta-a-ti 9, 33; ma- . 39, 9; 

matati 1, 11; 12, 17, 39; 19, 7; 57, 14; 61, 3. 


w 






l6 2 


VOCABULARY 


[nadu 


J 

tffcO H-ni- i t 49 ; 33, 33 - 

“l^j nadu I 1 “to be exalted; to praise(?)”: ? li-na-du-ka 11, 
29; — I 2 “to exalt, to praise”; lu-ut-ta J -id 12,89; 
iu-ta-id 21, 70; lut-ia-id 5, 8; lu-ut-ta-id-ma ix, 12. 
tanittu: wtanitti {wtikniii?, ideogr. SIM.GIG) 22, 32. 
*1^2^ naru “stream”: nari pl 12, 29; 25, 6. 

nabu “to name”; sum a nabu “to exist, to be”: na-bat 
11, 8; na-bz-at 11, 8 A. 

nabatu “to shine”; I 3 do.: it-ta-na-an-bi-tu 39, 12, 
nubattu a festival: (um) nn-bat(?)-ti 61, 11. 
nindabU “offering”: ?iindabu 18, 13. 
fHj nadft “to cast, to place”: I 1 tanadi(di) 11, 44: 12, 6 bis , 
11,98; 17, 7; — 13 it-ia-na-an-du-u 21,73; iitanandu 

21, 25. 

nadanu “to give”: tanadin(in) 1,14,16: id-din-ha-ma 2, 
17; 3, 15; 27, 9; iddin-ka-ma 27, Q A; .... .-dan 31, 
5; ad-dan-ka ig, 19; ad-dan-ki 4, 33; addin-su 53, 18; 
nadnat(at) 9, 38. 

mandatu “tribute”: man-da-ti-ya 12, 55. 
m nahu I i “to be weak; to rest”: an-fau 4, 16; an-fta 12, 
41; li-nit-ufa 12,88; li-nu-fya 6,89; 7, 27: 21,68; 27, 
20; 28, 12; 46, 5; liniik(ufy) 30, 6; — III 2 “to appease, 
to pacify”: mus-ti-ni-Uj 33, 3. 

n: n&ru “light”: nu-u-ru 6, 108; nu-u-ra 8, 2; nu-ru 11, 1 A] 

22, 35; nu-ri 12, 69; nu-ur 6, 100; 39, 9. 

1}3 nazazu “to stand”: Ii az-za-az 1, 21; azzaz(az) ideogr. 
GUB 13, 6; az-ziz 21,11; 22, 57; izzizii (ideogr. GUB.BU) 
1,15; li-iz-ziz 6, 122; 9,16,17; 10,21; 22,17,18; 53, 
22; li-iz-zi-zu 2, 30, 31; 7, 42; li-zi-zu 50, 10; li-ziz-zu 
2, 30 Z>, 31 D; lizziza(za) ideogr. GUB 60, 18; iziz-ma 
(ideogr. GUB) 12,59; i-ziz-zi-im-ma 6,72; 7,10; 37, 
8; i-ziz-zi-ma 4, 27; r In-ziz-ku {lu-bat-tukr) 11, 27; — 
III 1 nszzizu(zu) ideogr. GUB.GUB 53,9; — IV 1 na- 
an-za-zu 9, 15; — I 2 at-ta-ziz 27, 18. 




nammafeu] VOCABULARY 163 

manzazu “place, station": man-za-za 2,15; 3,13; 22, 
16; ■man-za-az-ka 27, 5; man-za-az-ki 32, 7. 
brD nablu “date-palm(?)’’: na-aU-la. 12, 4. 
ttfTU nahaSu “to abound": na-ha-si 8, 3. 

nu^Su “abundance”: nuftsu 12,27; 49, 30; 58,2. 

^EM natilu “to see, behold 1 ’: i-na-ta-lu 18, 2; ia-na-tal 18, 
7 A; cit-pi-la 6, 116; 10, 18; Iat~tul 12, 113. 

tea “to be cunning’”: Ii ak-kil(?) 6, 29; — IV 1 ? uam-kil- 
Iu-ni-ma 22, 12. 

NI.KUL.LA(W) 12, 101. 

D 2 j nakasu “to cut off”: I 1 na-kas 50, 23; —II 1 tunikis(is) 
ideogr. KUD 40, 9. 

"D3 n akaru Ii “to rebel, be hostile”; II 1 “to alter”; II2 
“to be altered”: I 1 a-na-kar 59, 9; na-kar 13, 11: — 
III nu-uk-kir(kir?)-ma 12, 60; mn-na-kir 50, 2; — II 2 
nt-tak-ka-ru 60,7; uttakkarii(ru) 12,19; 19,31; 33, 36; 
53i 23; 59,11; uiiakkarumfrum) 1, 50: nitakkar(ar) 12. 96. 
NIM a tree: *«NIM 12, 10. 

NAM.BUL.BI ideogr.: NAM.BUL.BLI 62,12. 

IDj namaru u to shine, to be bright”: II 1 ‘‘to make bright”; 
III 11 1 do.: II2 “to be bright”: Ii lim-mir 12,69; lim- 
mi-ru 8, 10; nam-rat 1, 5; — II 1 M-nam-ma -. .... 21, 
1; tu-nam-mar 40, 11; tunammarf?) ideogr. LAH.LAH 
40,9; nu-tim-mi-ir 11,20; nu-um-mir 11, 20C; mu-nam - 

mir i, 2: mn-na-mir 58, 17; mu-na -.33, 

1; — III 21 1 tus-nam-mar 12, 35; mus-na-mi-rat 39,10; — 
II 2 lu-ui'ta-mir 12,83. 

namru “bright”: nam-m 16,4; nam-ri(?) 10,27; nam - 
ru-ti 8, 23. 

nararis “brightly”: nam-ris 9, 23. 

namriru “brightness, splendour”; nam-ri-ri 46,15; 
nam-ri-ru-ka i, 7; nam-ri-ir-ri-ki 8, 10. 
namirtu “brightness": na-rnir-ti 1, 3. 
namurratu “brightness”: na-mur-ra-ta 21, 59. 

ttfDJ nammassu “reptile, creature”: na-mas-su-u 32,13; navi- 
vias-si-l 27, 10. 





164 


VOCABULARY 


[nammastii 


nammaStu “reptile, creature'’: na-mas-ti 32, 10. 

namtaru: nam-ta-ru 12,42. 

nisu “to remove, to tear away; to be removed”: I i li- 
is-su-u 12, 73f?;— Hi lu-ni-is-su-H 12, 73; nu-us-si 12, 

60;. -us-su 12, 60 B: — IV 1 li-in-ni-is-si 1,45, 

48; 33, 28, 32; linnisi(si) ideogr. BAD 30, 12. 

nisutu “male relatives”: ni-su-ti-ya 11, 23; ? ni-su- . 

ix, 23 C. 

|-,Dj nasahu “to remove, to tear away”: Ii tanasnlj,{r)-ma 
(ideogr. ZI) 12, 97; nasaj}u (ideogr. ZI.GA) 27, 13; — 
IV 1 linnasi!i(ijj) ideogr. ZI 30, 12; 50, 23. 

napistu “life”: na-pis-ti 12,70; 22,6; 33,8; 37,5; na- 
pisti(ti) 7,37: 9,5,2iA,38; 14,4; 18, 16 B; 27,9; 57, 
12: napiUim(tim) 6, 60: 9, 21; 12, 108 E\ 18, 16; 37, 2; 
nap-sat 61,13; nap sat 53, 29; napisti( tim) -ya 9, 22; napisti- 
ya 9, 22 B\ 50, 23. 

"isa nasaru u to keep, preserve”: as-sur 8, 9; nci-$i-ru 22, 6; 
na-si-rat 9, 38. 

ilpj niku u to offer': tanaki(ki) {? £inikz\ 6,96; 12,5,7; i 5t 
27; 21,30; 22,33; 24, 6; 30, 23; 32, 3; 40, 12; 51, 11; 
62, 28; tanaki(ki)~ma 2, 10; 8, 21; ak-ki(?) 2, 45; ak-ki- 
ka 1, 20; akki-ka 2, 29; — II 1 ??w-uk-ka 21, 79. 
niku “offering”: niku ideogr. DIM (?tanaki) 11,43; 
12, 3; 21,29; 30, 22; 62,26; niki (ideogr. DIM) 21,70; 
immiru n j 2I ^ . tmmiru 12, 7 ; 40, 9; 62, 28. 

n 1 r t u : ni-ir-iu 6,58. 

nisu “to raise”: nisi-ma 12, 103; na-as 22,3; na-sa-ht 18, 

13; kz-5k 12, 78; ni- .1,48; 33,32; ni-Su 12, 52; 

ni-is 12,79: 35, 14; ;/zi 12, 88C: 50,21; niS (ideogr. IL) 
4, 35 ; I2 , 48, 88; 13, 14; 23, 7; 40,10,13; IL.LA (= nis) 
1, 28, 52: 2, 9, 42; 3, 9; 4, 8, 23; 5, 10; 6,17, 35, 70, 95, 
131; 7,8,33; 8,20,21: 9,27; 10,6,26; 11,41; 12,95; 
13,12; 14,11: 15,17; 16,10; 17,5; 18,18; 19,33; 20, 
7; 21, 24, 72, 75, 91; 22, 30, 68; 23, 6; 24, 4; 25, 5; 26, 
3; 27, 25; 28, 5; 29, 2; 30, 19; 31, 7; 32, 2; 33, 38; 34, 
5; 36, 6, 8; 37, 6; 38, 3; 39, 4; 40, 2; 42, 24; 43, 8; 44, 
2; 45,4; 46, 9! 47, 6, 9; 48, 16; 49, 20; 50, 28; 51, 9. 






sanal>ii] 


VOCABULARY 


165 

nisu “spirit (?)”: nis 8, 1. 

nisu “people”; ni-sit n, 28; ni-si 9, 6; nisU 1 1, 3, 4, 8, 
53; 4, 5; 7, 59; 9, 8, 40; 12, 39, 72; 13, 7, 16; 18, 5, 17; 
21, 12, 23, 90; 22, 7, 8, 67; 30, 18; 32, 11; 33, 34; 57, 2. 
naSku “weak(?j”; na-as-ki 9, 36. 

D 

D!2D sabasu "to be angry”: is-bu-su 1, 23. 

“HD “to arrange”: si-di-ir-ma 21, 88. 

to sajiaru “to turn towards”: is-salj-ru 6, 52; as-sa-fiar 27, 
15: is-bit-ra 7, 54; as-feur {az-mur?) 8,11; as-feur-ka 6, 
28: as-Jjiir-ki 6. 73, 79; 33, 22; ashur-ki 1, 41; 4, 29; 7, 
11, 62: 37, 9; 57, 7: li-sab-ra 30, 10. 
sukkallu “messenger”: suk-kal-lu 6, 20; sukkallu 6, 20 A. 
FpD sakapu “to cast down, overthrow”: li-is-kip 12, 68. 
nbu II 1 “to implore, to beseech”: i-scil-lii-ka-ma 1, 14, 16; 
50, 5 * 

silitu “compassion”: si-li-ii 30, 14. 

salatu “female relatives”; sa-la-ii-ya 53, 13; sa-la-ii-ya 

23. 

rhD salajia “to sprinkle”: [ia]-sal-laJj 62,29; tasalaU 12,2; 
21, 28, 74; 30, 21: 31, 8; 33, 39. 

D^D saiamu I 1 “to be favourable”; II 1 do.: I 1 tas-Iim 8, 

12 bli : tas-lim 13, 10: lis-li-mu 1, 24; lislimu(mu) 1, 44; 
28,3; 33,27: si-Iim 2,35; 14,7; 16, 9(?); 22,61,62; 

sal-H-mu 9, 18; sal-li- .6, 123; 10, 21; salimu(mu) 

33,42; 32,5 (Hslimu?); salimu 6,122; 10,21; ? sa-la- 

7 ui-i 48, 18; — II i in-sal-lam 2, 24; 21, 87;. -sal- 

lam 6, 55; tu-sal-lam(?) 2, 24 B. 

salimu “favour”: sa-H-mu 4, 6; 8, 8; 50, 25; sa-li-ma 

33, 15, 16;.. -ma 12, 61 B; salima(ma) 12,61. 

suluppu “date”: sitluppii 12, 3; 21, 29; 30, 21; 62, 26. 
1DD sa-mi-id 21, 26; sa-mid 21, 16. 

pjD sanaku “to harass: to shut up, to fetter”: I 1 sa-ni-ku 
46, 12; — III 1 u-sis-ni-ka 12, 67; usisnika(ka) 12, 74; 
tu-sa-as-ni-ka 12, 109 if; tu-sa-as-ni-ka 12, 109. 






VOCABULARY 


166 

fed 


FED 


P1D 


IB 

me 

ID 


te 


"BD 



[sipft 


sipu “to beseech*’: II i it-sa-pi-[ka] 50, 20. 

supu, suppu “supplication”: su-pi-z 33,4; su-pi i,37; 
33, 20; su-pi-ya i, 43; 21, 21; 33, 22, 26; su-up-pu-it-ki 
8, 1. 

sapafeu I 1 “to scatter, to loosen”; II 1 do.: I 1 su-pu~ufe 
5, 7; sa-ap-fei 6, 53; sa-pi-zfe-ti 32.11; su-up-pidfe-zna 
n, 37 - 

SIR* AD ideogr.: 12, 6; 30, 24. 

saraku “to pour out”: a-sa-rak 18,13; as-ruk-ka 1,20; 
as-ruk-ki 30, 3; 57. 9. 

sirku “libation”: si-rik 1, 20; 30, 3; 57, 9. 


2 

pagru “body, corpse”: pa-gar-su 2, 22; amllu pagar-su 2, 
22 j 5 ; pag-ri-ya 12, 53; 53, 12. 

padu “to set free, to spare”: pa-du-u 20, 15, 17; 46, 18; 
pa-da-a 5, 9. 

pu “mouth”: pn-ii 6, 33; pit 12, 68; 22, 55; pi 4, 5; 9, 8; 
10, 35; 12, 66, 72; 22, 8: pu-su 11, 14; pu-su 21, 25, 73; 

pi-i-ka 12, 62; pi-i- .13, 32; pi-ka 12, 80; 13, 11; 

pi-ka 21, 22; 22, 9; 42, 17; pi-ki 1, 43; 33, 25; P^i 1, 
49; pi-ya g, 13 A 49; 6, 57; 22, 14 /z-yi 9, 13; 

22, 14; pi-ku-nu 62, 7. 

pu^ru “totality, the whole”: pit-bur 27, 7^,9; pubur 27, 
7; pztferi 19, 28; pu-feur-sn-nu 1, 15. 
napba.ru “the whole”: nap-fear 6, 40; 52, 5. 

pataru “to tear, to loosen, to remove”: I 1 ta-pat-tar 2, 

23; ta-pa -.2, 23 Z?: iapatar(ar) 12,99; 4°, 14; 

tapatar-ma 30, 28; lip-tur 12, 84; pu-tnr 2, 38; 11, 19C, 

2 9i 30, 3 2 , 34, 37; 18,14; 27,21;. -tur 49, 2 1; pu- 

tiir-nia 11, 19; pu-ztt-ri 11,31,33; pu-ut-ra 11,35; — 
II 1 iu-pat-tar 2, 23 B\ li-pat-tir 10, 3; — IV x lip-pa-tir 
5} 6; 7, 48: muppatiru(ni) 53,7; — II2 lip-ta-at-ti-m 
12, 83; lip-ta-ti-ru 30, 13. 

palabu “to fear, to reverence”; II 1 “to terrify”; I 3 do.: 
I 1 pa-li-fei-ka 17, 4; pa-life-ka 2, 35; pa-llfe-ki 2,7; 





pir’n] 


VOCABULARY 


167 


. -lih 28,10; 46,2; pal-fya-ku 4,42; pal-ba-ku-ma 

62,15; — III mu-pal-Ii-fai 53,6; — 1 3 up-ta-na-lak- 
an-ni 53, 8. 

puluhtu “terror”: pu-lufy-tu 2, 13; 3, 11. 
pulanu “such and such”: pulanu 1, 38 bis ; 2, 26 b,s ; 4, 16; 
6, 27 b:s , 83 £ bis ; 10, 31; 12, 45 bb , 90; 13, 5 bis ; aa, ii, 51; 
27, 11; 30, 7; 31, 4 bis ; 33 i 2i bis ; 39 , 16: 54, I bis ; 57 , 3 bis ; 

58, 5 b!s ; 62, i3 bis ; pulani 1, i2 bU , 38, 39 b!s ; 2,26; 4,16, 

17 bis , 39 b5s ; 6, 27, 83 E, 84 E v,s , 113 F his ; 7, 20 bis , 60 bU ; 
10,31; 12,45,90; 13.5; 22,11,51; 27,11; 30,7; 31,4; 
33, 21; 39,16; 53, 2 4 bis ; 54, 1, 2 Ws ; 57, 3,4 bis ; 58, 5,6 bis ; 

59, I2 bis ; 60, i9 bis ; 61, i6 bis ; 62,13; pulanitnm(turn) 1, 
38; 2,26; 6, 27, 83 E; 12, 45; 13,5; 31, 4; 33, 21: 54, 
1; 57, 3; 58, 5; 62, 13. 

IV 1 u to look at, to regard favourably, to pity, to show 
mercy 1 ’: nap-lis-an-ni 2,37; nap-lis-an-ni-ma 2,32; 6, 
62: naplis-an-ni 2, 37Z); naplis-an-ni-ma 27, 19; naplisa- 

ni-ma 2,32/); 21,66; nap-li- .35,5; nap-li-si-in- 

ni-ma 3,4; naplisu-nm-ni 7,46; mu-up-pal-sa-ta 2,37; 
27,17: mu-up-pal-sa-at 2, 37 Zk [nap]-Iu-us-sa 4,26; 
[nap]-lu-us-ki 8, 2. 

panu u face”: /cz/z 2, 10; 8, 20; 11, 42; 12, 2, 5, 98; 13, 6, 
13; 18, 19^; 21, 28; 24, 6; 30, 20; 31, 8; 32, 3; 51, 10; 
52, 3; pa-nu-uk-ka 14, 10; 18, 2; pa-nu-ka 18, 3; pa-ni- 
ka 2, 36; 27, 17 D; panu-ka 10, 33; 22, 23; pani-ka 1, 
u bis ; 6, 34; 12,66,70,75,76: 27, 18; 53, 16: pa-ni-ki 8, 

12; panu-ki 1, 36; 33, 19; pani-ki 33, 14; pa-ni- . 

35, 4: pani-ya (ideogr. SAG.KI) 53, 10. 

DD2 pasasu u to loosen, to forgive (sin) 11 : Ii lip-su-su 12, 76; 
pu-si-si 50, 22; — II 1 mu-pa-si-su 62, 10. 
pisatu a brightly-coloured (?) robe: hibiatu pisati 40, 6. 

*1DD pakadu Ii u to take care of, to rule, to entrust to 1 ’; 

II 1 u to visit, to resort to”: I 1 ta-pa-kid 58, 3: ip-Md 
27, 10; ti-pi-ik-da-ni 11, 26; pa-ki-du 46, 13; pak-du 42, 
12; — II1 lu-pa-kid 53, 20. 

parutu ‘‘alabaster 11 : nlnu pariitu 12,11,12,69. 

pir’u “offspring. posterity 11 : pi-ir-i 12,75; pi-ir- 12,75c. 





VOCABULARY 


[parakku 


168 


par(mas ?)-da-a 34, 3. 

*"pD parakku “shrine”: parakkani # 1 9, 7. 

HIT© IV 1 “to cease, to yield”; ip-par-ki 6, 124; 10, 22. 

parasu u to separate, to decide”: I 1 ia-par-m-sa 62, 6; 
pu-nt-us 12, 50 B: punts (us) 12, 59; 50, ir; purusi(si) 4, 
30: 7,49: paris(is) 12,108is; [pa]-ra-sn 6,74 D; parasi(si) 
4, 28; 6, 74; 7, 12; 37, 10; — IV 1 ipparasu(su) 53, 28. 

parsu “part”: par-su 48, 18. 
piristn “decision”; fi-ris-ti 1, 17. 

purussn “decision”: punts 1, 11: 4, 28; 6, 74: 7,12; 
12,58; 13,28; 37,10; purussa-ai 4,30: 7,49; 12,59; 
50, 11. 


parsu “command”: par-su-[ki] 4, 12. 
pasahu “to be pacified, to be consoled”: pa-sa-Ija 8, 7. 
pD®? HI 1 snp-si-ka 9, 14; 22, 15; mu-sap-sik(pik?) 42, 16. 


pE® pu§ku “sorrow, misery”: pitski 9, 35; 31, 6. 

IE® pasaru “to loosen, to free, to interpret”: I 1 lip-su-nt 
12, 78; lip-sur-an-iii 12, 84; lipsur-an-ni 12, 84C; pu-sur 
2.38: 11,19,29,30; 50,22: 61,18; pa-sir 6, 5, 6, 7: 

BUR.RU.DA 22, 12; — II 1 . -si-ru 62. 12; — 

IV 1 lip-pa-al-ru 1,47; tip-pa-as- .6, 13: [Hp]-pa- 

as-[ra] 27, 21D: .. . . . -as-ra 28, 2; Hppasm(m) 

21. 68; nap-sur-m 11, 2. 


passuru “dish, vessel”: mfiassuru 40, 8; 61, 10. 


pasasix “to rub, to anoint”: tapasas(as) 11,45; pttsus 12, 
102; 51, 13; pa-sa-su 58, 8. 

napSastu “ointment: vessel for ointment”: nap-sal-tum 
12, 76; *>w napsastu 12, 8, 15, 116, 

KsHD pitfi “to open”: I 1 pi-iu-u 60, 6; pi-iu 
pitii-u 12. 29; — II 1 tn-pat-ti 6, 107. 


fi, 9 8 ; 






sirgarrti] 


VOCABULARY 


169 


u 

siru “mighty 11 : si-i-ru 6,20; 11,46; si-ru 12,19 A; siru 
12, 19; 22, 36, 38; 60, 7; sir-turn 9, 28; sir-ti 1, 50; 4, 
435 M5; 7, 23; 9,10; 19,31; 33,36; 53,23; si-rat 60, 
1 1; strati 60, 14. 


§iru “field 11 : siru 8, 27; 49, 32. 

rD* sab&tu “to grasp, to seize”; abbuttu §abatu “to inter¬ 
cede for”: I 1 ta-sab-bat 2, 21:. -bat 12, 

43; as-bat 4,29; 6,73; 7,11; 37,9; 51,6; sabat-ma 
(ideogr. DIB) 12, 16; sab-ti-ma i, 42; 33, 24; sa-bi-ta 

9, 36; sa-bi-ta-at 6, 90; 7, 28; 9, 36 . -at 

9, 45; sab-ta-ku-ma 18, 9; — II 1 u-sab-bit 13, 22. 
subatu “garment”: subata-ka (ideogr. TUG) 51, 6 . 
sibittu “imprisonment”: si-Mt-ti-ka 10, 29. 


*)m 1 'to be small”: as-sa-Ij.ar (az-za-mur?) 2, 3. 
sihru “small”: si-fyi-ri-ya 11, 36. 

rb'Jl taslitu, tislitu “prayer”: tas-li-ti 11,27; I 4, 35 21163; 

27, 19 D; 33. 4; 50, 21; tas-lit 2, 33; 9, 39; 59, 5; ta— 

sil-ti 1,18;. -li-ii 49, 8; tislitu (ideogr. A.RA.ZU) 

36 , 9 * 

bbv n i “to cover over, to darken”: mu-sal- HI 21, 78. 

sillu “shadow, protection 1 ’: sil-lu 6,120; sil-li-ka 13,10. 
sululu “shadow, protection”: su-lul 9, 6, 33; 22, 4; zu- 
lid 9, 6 B\ su-lul-ka 22, 58; su-lul-ki 6, 92; 7, 30. 

rbz §almu “darkness”: ilx salmu 21, 13; 22, 49. 

salmu “dark”; §almat kakkadi “the black-headed 
(race), mankind”: sal-mat 1, 4; 27,9. 
salmu “image”: salman£ l -u-a 12, 54. 


H 1 “to think, to devise, to plan”: ii-sa-am-ma-ru 8, 18; 
9i 12; 54, 7. 

sirgarru a stone: ^ M SlR.GAR.RA-fe* 8, 25. 


x 






VOCABULARY 


[KA 


KA a measure: 22,31; 62, 25. 

mp katu “hand”: ka-a-ti 35, 14; ka-ti 61, 13; kati 12, 79; 13, 
14; kat 2, 21; g, 36 A\ 12, 16; §U (kati) 1, 28, 52; 2,9, 
42; 3, 9; 4, 8, 23; 5, 10; 6, 17, 35, 70, 95, 131; 7, 8, 33; 
8,20,21; 9,27; 10,6,26; 11,41; 12,95; 13,12; 14, 
11; 15,17: 16,10; 17,5; 18,18; 19, 33; 20, 7; 21, 24, 
72, 75, 91 ; 22, 12, 30, 68; 23, 6; 24, 4; 25, 5; 26, 3; 27, 
25; 28, 5; 29, 2; 30, 19; 31, 7; 32, 2; 33, 38; 34, 5; 36, 
6,8; 37,6; 38,3; 39, 4: 40,2; 42,24; 43.8; 44,2; 
45, 4; 46, 9; 47, 6, 9; 48, 16; 49, 20; 50, 28; 51, 9; kat- 
su 12, 43; ka-tuk-ka 2, 18; 3, 15; 27, 10; kat-ta-ka 21, 
59; kati-y'a 4, 35; 12,48,88; 14,5; 50,21; kata du 9, 
36; 12, 79 C\ kata d, ‘-su 12,46; kail * 1 11,26; kati du -ya 
12, 88 C. 

fcOp “to speak, to command’’: I i a-kab-bu-u 8, i5 bis ; 9, 20 bis ; 

tak-bn-u 45, 3; likbi 19, 29: lik-bi 12, 93; lu-uk-bi 27, 
24; lik-bi-ka 15,16; 16,9; lik-bu-11 1,50; 2,40; 9,15; 
22, 16; 33, 35; ki-bi 5, 5; 9, 21, 22; 12, 80; ig, 22, 28; 
21, 66; kibi 12, 104; kibi-ma 12, 99; 61, 4; ki-bi-i 2, 5; 
4? 49? 3? 9 T 46; ki-bi-ma 8, 14; ka-bu-u 27, 14; ka-bu-u 


T1 i 3? kd-bu-u 27,14^; ka-bu- .27, 14 5; ka-bat 

11, 14; ki-bi-ka-ma 19, 13; ka-ba-a 9, 19; 13, 8; 22, 65; 
ka-ba-ai 2, 32; 4, 27; 12, 59; 27, 19; — I 2 ik-ta-ba-an- 
ni-ma 11,25; tak-ta-bu-u 12,115;. -u 12,115 E. 


kibitu “word, command”: ki-bit 1, 43; 12, 62, 87, 114; 
22, 10, 66; 33, 25; 35, 15; 53, 27; ki-bit-su 19, 8; 60, 7; 
ki-bit-sa 4, 26; ki-bi-sa 33, 10; ki-bi-ti-ka 9, 10; 53, 23; 
ki-bit-ka 6, 21; 19, 31; 50, 9; 60, 10, 11; kibit-ka 9, ioi?; 

50, g A, 26; 54, 5; ki-bit-ti- .7, 44; ki-bi-ti-ki 4, 

43? 6, 85; 7,23; ki-btt-ki 1,50; 8,2; 33,36; ki-bit-su-un 
33, 17 ? ki-bit-[ku-nu] 7, 56. 

Op I- 2 “to oppose”; Part, “warrior”: muk-tab-lu 21,42; mufe¬ 
ta b-him 46, 20. 

kablu “battle; middle, waist”: ka-bal 12, 23; ka-bal~su 
H? 3^ *2; kabli-su 53, 17. 






feitrudii] 


VOCABULARY 


171 

■°P kabru “grave”: kab-ri 30, 11. 

kadadu “to bow down”; II 2 “to make bow down, to 
bend”: uk-ta~ad-di-da-am-ni 11, 6; nk-ta-ad-di-da-ni 
11, 6 A. 

ipnpkakkadu “head”: kafekadu (ideogr. SAG.DU) 1,4; 27, 
9; kakkad (ideogr. SAG) 12, 96; kakkad-su (ideogr. 
SAG.DU) 12, 121; kakkadu-ki (ideogr. SAG) 8, 8. 

Ip ku “barley (?)”: kid 12, 30. 

*]p ku “cord”: ?ki-i 22, 49; 62, 11. 

“voice”: kn-la 12, 36. 

Efip “to bestow”: kn-si-ma 39, 14; ka-i-su 22,5; ka-i-$at 4, 25; 
7 , 37; [ka?]-i-sat 9, 39. 

xbp n 1 “to take, to seize”: ? mu-kil-lu 7, 40. 

killatu “sin, disgrace”: kil-la-tk 12, 78; kil-lal 12, 78 C; 
kil-la-ti 5,7; 27, 21D; 50, 18; kil-la-ti-ma 2,39; kil-la- 
a-ti 9, 54. 

KsDp kimu “grain”: kimii 22.32; 26,7; irzW 22,31; 33, 40. 

rap kanu "reed”: Jsa-an-ni-ka 18, io. 

nap kisru “might, strength”: ki-sir 12, 83. 

21p “to approach”: Ii i-kdr-ri-ba 21, 22; ik-ru-bu-ni 7,57; — 
II 1 u-kar-fi-bu-u-ni 12, 77 C; u-kar-ri-bu-ni 12, 77. 

kirbu “midst”: ki-rib 12, 31, 83; 21, 10, 73; 32, 7, 15; 
62, 9; ki-. .... 39. *3* 
kar-bu-ni-ya 19, 26. 

lip ak-ri-dak-ka 13, 27. 

T)R kardu, f. karidtu “brave, valiant”: kar-du 14, 15; kar- 
da 21, 46; ka-rid-tu 4, 10, 11; ka-ria-tu 1, 29; ka-rid- 
tum 5, 11; kd-rid-ti 32, 6. 

karradu do.: kar-ra-du 11,1 A; kar-ra-du 11,40; karradii 
n, 1, 30, 34; 46, 21. 

kuradu do.: ku-ra-du 2, 25; 5,14; 21, 77; ku-ra-di 1, 32. 
kitrudu do.: kil-ru-du 46, 16. 




1 72 


VOCABULARY 


[kurdu 


kurdu “valour, might”: kur-di-ka 12, 92; 21, 85; ku- 
ru-ud-ka 5, 9 . 

kakkaru “ground”: kak-ka-ri 32, 10. 

am ramanu “.self”: ra-ma-ni-sa 11, 9; ra-ma-ni -$&- 

ma 11, 9 A] ra-ma-ni-ya 11, 24. 
ramu “to love, to pity”: i-ram-mu 9, 34; li-ri-man-ni 21, 

69: ri-man-ni-ma 21,63;. -man(min?)-ni-ma 2,5; 

ri-min-ni-ma 8. 3; ra-im 9, 4. 

rimu “mercy”: ri-i-mu 12, 70; ri-i-ma 12, 61 BC ; 21, 
89; 22, 64; rimu 21, 69; 30, 14. 

rimnu, riminu “merciful”: ri-mi-nu-u 11,7 A; ri-mi- 
nu-u 11, 2, 7; 28, 7; ri-mi-nu-u-um 11, 2^4; ri-mi-nu-u 
21, 61; ri-mi-ni-ya 6, 91; 7, 29; ri-mi-na-ta 12, 40; 27, 
18 A: ri-mi-ni-ta 27, 18; ri-mi-ni-tum 6, 71 if, 77; 7, 9, 
* 5 ; 37 ? 7 ? *3; 57 > 2 ; ri-mi-ni-tum 6, 71, 77Z?; rim-ni-tnm 
4, 25; rim-m-tum 7, 35, 59. 

naramn, f. naramtu “darling”: na-ram 6, 19; 22, 5; 
27, 4 ; 60, 6; ?ia-ram-[tar] 6, 126; 10, 23. 

pKs*l ruku “distant”: ruk-ka(?) 13, 9; ru-ku-tu i, 36; 33, 19; 
rukuti $ l 62, 9. 

rikutu “distance”: rik-ku-ti 59, 20. 
tZftO risu “head”: ri-si-ka 49, 19; risi-ya 50, 24; 5, 1; 

6, 29; ri-$a-a-ka 2, 16; 3, 14; 21, 60. 

ristu “former, original, preeminent”: ri$-tu-u 46, 14; 
ris-ii-i 1, 42; 33, 23; ris-ti-i 4, 48. 

\Lf$ 4*1 I 1 “to shout for joy, to hail”; II 1 “to cause to 

rejoice”: I 1 li-ris-ka 9, 24; . . . . .-ris-ka 20, 5; li-ris- 
[ki] 8, 18; ?ris-sa 12, 36: — II1 mu-ris 9, 3; 58, 18. 
risati pi. “shouts of joy”: ri-sa-a-ti 6, 121; 10, 20; 17, 3. 
ri-is-ta-a (fr. ristu?, cf. supra ) 1, 20. 
ran “to be great”; III i “to make great”: li-sar-bu-u 3, 7; 
.5» 3- 

rabu “great”: ra-bu-u 46,6: ra-bu-u 46, 6 A; rabu-u 
9 ) 9 j 21 5 ix j 7 5 rabu 9, 2 \ B\ 26, g; 42, 26; rabi-i 22, 






VOCABULARY 


I 73 


rasft] 


22; rabi 22, 9, 22 B ; ra-ba-ta 27, 6; ra-hit 2, 44; g, 29; 
rabitu(tu) 19, 24, 34; rabitum(tum) 11, 31, 33; 27,3; 49, 
15; rabita(ta) 6, 68; rabiti(ti) 13, 6; 22, 10, 66; 27, 3 D; 
46,3,8; 59,11; 62, 22; rabicti 1,11,14,17; 2,15; 3,6, 
x 3 : 6,130; 7,6; 8,19,23; 9,26: 10,5; 12,25,79,88, 
” 4 ; 19 , 5 ; 33,8; 50,5,10,29; 61,14; 62,1; rabati* l 
33 , ii- 

rubu “prince”: rubti 9,2; 10,3; 19,26; 22,1; rubi 
22, 9, 22. 

rubatu “princess”: ru-ba-tti 19, 34. 
surbu “powerful, mighty”: sur-bu-u 2, 12; 48, 17; sur- 
bu-u 3,10; 6,1,2,18,97; 10,7; 20,8,10; 21,34,36; 
Sur-bat 60, 9; sur-ba-ta-ma 18, 6; sur-ba-ti 4, 12; sur- 
bu-tii 4, 24, 47; 6, 85 D; sur-bu-tum 6, 71, 77, 85, 90; 7, 

9, 23, 28; 37, 7; sur- .38, 5. 

narbfi, nirbu “greatness, might”: nir-bi 6,16; 21,7; 
nar-bi-ka 2, 41; 5, 8; 6, 69; 7, 2; 12, 93; 18, 17; 21, 23, 
71; 23, 5; 50, 27; nir-bi-ka 27, 24; nar-bi-ki 2, 8; 6, 94; 
7, 32; nir-bi-ki 30, 15, 17. 

| 0"1 rabisu a demon: rabisu {ideogr. MA 5 KIM) 6,124; 10,22. 
RIG a plant: i^RIG ig, 17. 

mi ‘ ‘to tread, to advance”: 1 1 ir-di 8, 5; — III 1 sur-dim-ma 
30, 14. 

ridutu ‘‘copulation; dominion 1 ': ri-du-su 53. 9; riduti(ti) 
59 : 6 . 


on 

rn 

nm 

Din 



II 1 “to raise”; IV 2 do.: at-/a-ra-[am] 61, 13. 

“to help, to deliver”: 11 ru-sa-nim-ma 53, 4. 

ru^u “enchantment, sorcery”: ru-bu-u 33,31; ru-fyi-i 12, 
81, 106. 

rakasu “to bind, to knot”: ar~kus-ka 2, 27. 
raksu “bound”: rak-su-ma 50,19; 53,7. 
riksu “band, cord”: rik-sa 2, 27; rib-si 33, 44; riksu 
(ideogr. KI&DA) 12,99; 3°: 28; 40,14. 

“to be loose 1 '; II1 “to loosen”: ru-um-[mz] 2, 39. 

rimku “libation”: rim-ki 1, 54; 61, 12. 

rusu “magic, sorcery”: ru-[su-u] 33, 31; ru-si-i 12, 82. 




174 


VOCABULARY 


[rapasu 


wzn rapasu u to be broad”; II i u to broaden, to enlarge’ 1 : 
ru-up-pis 5, 4. 

rapsu u broad, wide-spreading, distant”: rap-sn 7, 30; 
12, 20 A; rap-sii 6, 92; rapasta(. . . . «) 1, 7; rapasti(ti) 
62,8; rapastim(iim) 60,5; rap-$a-a~ti 9,6; rapsati(ti) 
61,6; rapsati** 10, 11; 12,39; *7; 21,23,90; 22,42, 

67; 30, 18. 

rasbu “mighty, powerful”: ra-as-bu 60, 13. 
ragftbu do.: ra-sub-bu 14, 16; 21, 93; 49, 25. 
rusubu do.: ru-su-buQ) 1, 1. 

HISH u to possess; to grant”: a-ra-si 11, 12 A: a-ra-as-si 11, 12; 

. -ras-si’ina 21, 75; ar-si 12, 69; dr-si 12, 69 C\ 15, 

4, 5; li-ir-su-ni 12, 61B; 50, 25; lirsu-ni (ideogr. TUK) 
12, 61; — III 1 sur-si 13, 28. 

sa rel. pron., 41 who, which”; sign of the genitive: sa 1, 
9, 12, 13,16, 19, 25, 38, 39, 40, 42. 45 Ws , 46, 50, 51; 2, 14, 
22, 23, 24, 26; 3, 6, 12; 4, 17, 19, 37, 38, 39, 41, 43, 44, 
46, 48; 6, 27, 40, 44, 49, 52, 53, 54, 55, 66, 82, 83 85, 

86, 88, 89 b!s , 113^“*, 118, 122, 129; 7, 5, 19, 20, 22, 23, 
24, 26, 27 bis , 51 b!s , 54, 56, 60, 61; 8, i2 bis , 13 bis , 19, 22, 23, 
26; 9, 25, 34 A; 10, 19, 21,35; 11,1,17,26,28,36; 12, 
n b:s , 1214, 19 2i, 20, 31, 43, 45, 56, 60, 63, 64, 66, 67, 
68, 76, Si, 85, 86, 97 D, 101, 103, 105, 116; 13, 5, 7, 11; 
17, 8; 18, 8; 19, 8, 10, 12, 31, 32; 21, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 52, 62, 
74; 22, 12,40; 23, 9; 27, 11 A v,s ; 30, 7, 10, I2 bis , 13; 31, 
4; 33, 10, 21, 24, 28, 29, 30, 36; 35, 1; 39, 16; 40, 3, 95 
42, 9, 12, 18; 46, 15; 48, 17; 50, 14, 16, 18, 19, 23; 52, 5; 
53, 14, 20, 21, 23, 24, 26; 55, 3; 56, 1, 9, 11; 57, 3, 4, 6; 
58,5,6,7; 59,2,11,12,14; 60, 7, 13, 15, 19, 21; 61,5, 
16, 16 A; 62, 13,17, 18, 19; sd 1, 23, 47; 2, 13; 3,11; 6, 
48; 7, 50,52, 55,59; 9,34; 10,30,32; 12,12^,19,21, 
97; 13,19,20; 22,50; 31,2,3; 33,8; 35,14; 5°, I 3 : 
53, 6; 54, 1, 2, 4; 55 , 5; 56, 8 ; 57, 2. 

$ su,sunu; SaSu, sasunu pers. pron., “he, they; him, them”: 
su-it 53,15; su-nn 12,41; sa-a-su 13,20; sa-su-nu 12,14. 







VOCABULARY 


175 


su’atu; §ti, sunuti dem. pron., “that, those’ 1 : sh-a-tu 
12, 8, n^ 4 ; su-a-ti 7, 62; 57, 7; siCatu (BI) 30, 28; suati 
(BI) 40, 15; su-u 60, 2; BI (=su) 60, 2; su-nu-ti 12, 104. 
sut connective particle: su-ut 2, 30, 31; 62, i7 ter . 

§A a measure; n, 43; 12, 3; 21, 29; 25,8; 30, 22; 40,8; 
62, 26. 

HXiE/ I 1 u to look, to look for, to seek”; I 2 “to seek, 
look for. concern oneself with”; I 3 do.: Ii ta-si- 27, 
8; ti-si- 27, 8 C; i-si- 2, 4; a-sz-~ka r, 21; 21, 11; zs-z- 
ka 6, 28; a-si-~ki 4, 29; zs-z~ki 6, 73; 7, 11; 37, 9; — 

I 2 -it 8, 10: P &s-ti-z (Pina ti-i- . ) 6, 9; is-ti- ~ 

su-ma 53, 16; is-ii- -u-ka 27, 16; [is-ti]--i-ka 27, 16 Z); 

lu-us-ti- -tna 11, 13; .11, 13 A; — 

I 3 is-ti~ni- 6, 48. 

satu “moment, time”: sat 1, 26; 22, 13. 
taSiltu “decision(?)”: ta-si-la-a-ti 2, 16; 3, 14. 

Siru “flesh”: siru 6,110; siri 8, 16; siri* l -ya 1,45; 33, 
29; siri^-ya 53, 11; siri^-sn-mi 18, 7 A. 
sirtu “iniquity”: szr-ti 1,26; str-ii 2,38; 11,19; Slr-tim 
2, 38 DE. 

umb saru “wind, breeze”: saru-ka 18, 15. 

Hi*,# “to flee, to escape”: i-si-it 11, 10. 

“to be satisfied”: lu-us-bi 9, 23; 22, 23. 

D2E?’ Sabasu “to be angry”: sab-su 4,37,45; 6,87; 7,25; 

Sab-sa 21, 87: sab-su-ma 6, 82, 88; 7,19, 26. 

DDE?'? $ab-su 12, 55. 

SlJB.SUB: §UB.SUBfd£/ 30, 24; 40,12; 62, 29. 

VOnf ta-sa-bzil?) 26, 5. 

sagganakku a governor or high official: sagganakku 

19, 14- 

w sigaru “bolt”: w sigaru 53, 22. 

ZfiVf sd-gis(P) 21, 43. 

SlD a tree: w^§ID 12, 5; 30, 25. 

sadfi “mountain”: sa-du-ti 9, 32; sadu-u 33, 7; sd-di-i 12, 
28; sadi? 1 21, 81; 32, 9; sadaniP 2 (ni) 59, 3. 
mH? sadafiu “to move along, to advance”: is-di-fyu 8, 5. 





iy6 


VOCABULARY 


T& 


mi 

?\W 

m 

nV? 

nvf 


ptf 


[$!du 

sidu “guardian deity”: iiu Hdu (AN.ALAD) 8,12; 12,110; 
13, 21; 22, 19; 50, 24; ilu sidu (AN.DAN) 6, 32; 19, 29; 
22, 8, 64. 

Sumu “garlic”: siimn 33, 45. 

gipu “foot”: $ipu(?)-. . 4,3; sipa du 17,6; sipi du -yh 

12, 55; 22, 60. 

sataru “to write, to inscribe”: ta-sa-tar 6,110; sic-ticr 27, 7. 

si’u “corn, grain”: ti-am 12, 4, 30. 

Sxbu “old man”: si-bi 11,6; si-bi-im 11,6 A. 

I 1 i-siJj-su 53, 18. 

§amu “to settle, to establish”: I 1 ta-sim-ma 62, 5; 

. -shn-mi 21, 83; si-ini 6, 113; 19, 21; Si-i-mi 10, 

16;— II 1 mu-sim 6, 19; 19, 9; 58, 1. 
simtu “destiny”: sim-ti 6, 113; 10,16; 19,21; H-mat 
6,112; 10,15; 22,3; si-mat-ka 15,13? si-ma-a-ti 19, 34; 
simatF 1 6, 112 F\ 15, 11; 19, 6, 9; 21, 60; 58, 1; 62, 2. 
? tasimtu: ta-sim-ti 41,3. 

Sakaku: tasakaki(ak) ideogr. UD.DU 12, 13. 

maStakal a plant: *ammastakal n, 44; 12, 9. 

sakanu “to set, to place, to establish; to lie, to be 
placed”: Ii isakna(na) 1, 12, 39; 4,17,39; 6,84 E, 
11 7, 20, 60; 19, 10; 27, 11 A; 50, 14; 53, 24; 54, 2; 

55 , 3 ; 56 , 9 ? 57 i 4 ; 58, 6; 59, 12; 60, 19; 61, 16; ta-Sa- 
kan 22, 49; ta-sak-kan 6, 108; tasakan(an) 2, 10; 8, 20; 
11, 42, 43, 45; 12, 3, 4, 7, 11, 14, 15, 102, 116; 13, 14; 14, 
12; 15,24; 18,19^; 21,29; 30, 22,26; 32,3; 40,8; 
51, 11, 15; 62, 26, 27, 28; tascikan-ma 22, 34; [ta-sa?]- 
ka-ni 33, 16; li-sak-na 12, 70; lis-ku-nu-ni 12, 61 B: sic- 
kun 22, 60; sii-kun-ma 19, 24; suk-na 6, 116; 10, 18; 12, 
110 if; 21,68; 22,65; Sukun(un) 1,22; sukna(na) 12, 

no; suk- .8,7; sa-ki-nu 62,10; sakinfin) 1, 11; 

sak- .22,47; saknu(nu) 12, 67, 116; Sa-ki-na-at 33, 

2; sd-ki-in 1,3; sa-kin 21,38; sa-kin 20,12; 46,17; 
sak -71 a-at 11, 28; sak-na-ta 42, 8; — II 1 tu-sak-na 1, 
o^; 33,19; — III 1 su-us-kin 22,14; su-us-ki7i 9,13; 
mu-sa-as-ki-nu 46,17; — IV 1 is-sak-na 13,18; is-sak - 
nam-[ma] 13, 19; is-sak-nu-nim-ma 27, 12; lis-sa-kin 1, 







VOCABULARY 


177 


49 ? 4 i 5! 33i 34‘> — IV 3 it-ta-?ia-a 3 -ka-nam-ma 6 , 
83 DE\ 7, 19. 

Siknu “creature”: Si-kin 33, 8; 37, 5; Sik-nat 10, 13; 
61, 3. 

“Dtf sikaru “drink”: si-kar i, 20; 2, 29. 

Salbabu “mighty, courageous (?)” fr. V^h^ : Sal-ba-bu 
9, 3, 31; 12, 17; 46, 20; 53, 3. 

suluhbu: sfa-hifa-fai 58, 15; su-lufy-fau-su 48, 18. 
sallat u: ? sal-la-tii 12. 119. 

nb& salamu Ii “to be intact, perfect, complete, to be pros¬ 
perous”; II 1 “to preserve intact, to cause to prosper”: 
I 1 lu-us-lim-ma 8, 17; 9, 10; 12, 66, 90; 22, 13; 30, 15; 

54, 6; In- .45, 2; ........ . .-us-lim 

12,66 C ;— Hi sul-li-ma-am-ma 12,112; mu-$al-lim 9, 
5; Sul-Iu-mu 4, 32; 6, 75; 7, 13; 37 ? 11- 
sa 1 mu “intact, safe and sound”: sal-mu 6, 10; 11, 26. 
sulmu “peace, prosperity”: su-ul-ma 58,4; sul-mu 4, 

26; 6, 124; 8,11;. -ma 45,7; sul-mi 12,113; 

sulmu(mu) 10, 22; 12, 71; sulma(ma) 21, 67, 68; sulmi(mi) 
12, IO5. 

Salnmmatu 1 ‘light”: sa-lum-ma-ia 21,58; sa-lum-ma-ii 
46 , 15 - 

Si lan “setting”; a point in heaven: si-la-an 9, 41. 
n b& od^'?) n 1 mu-sal-ii-tu 62,11. 

sumu “name”: su-mu 11,32; di-ma 11,8; sumu 12, 75 C; 
30, 14; sumi 40, 15; sum-su 12, 120; sumu-ka 9, 8; 
sumi-ka 8,1; sumu-ki 4, 33; su-mi-ya 19, 22 ; su-mt(pi?)-i 
3 2 ; 5' J 4; su-mi 5, 3 ; 12, 75; 13, 26; su-mi-sk-nu 19,14. 
Simu “to hear”: Ii lis-mi 1,43; 33,25; lu-uS-mi(?) 1, 
26; si-mi 2,32; 12,59 B; 50,21; si-mi 12,59; 13*27; 
21, 63; 27, 19; si-ma-a 2, 32 E\ si-mi-i 1, 41; 6, 72 E\ 
7? 10; 33, 22; 37, 8; si-mi-i 4, 27; si-mi-i 6, 72; si-mu-u 

7, 45; si-mu-u(?) 10, 27; si-mu-u 21, 82;. -u 

59, 5; si-mat 7, 36; 21, 12; 33, 4; si-ma-a-at 21, 75; si- 
mat 19, 28; si-ma-a 9, 19; 22, 65; — III 1 tu-sa-as-mi-i 
33, 17: — IV 1 lis-si-mi 8, 14; — III 2 [mus]-ti(?J-is- 
ma-at 33, 2. 


Y 







i 7 8 


VOCABULARY 


hod 


□Dttf 

and 

ptf 

Idd 

i m 


rdd 


naef 


[Simfi 

simft “obedient, friendly 1 ': si-mu-u n, 3; 27, 14. 
tagmft “prosperity, success 11 : tas-mn-u 4, 26; 8, 2, 9; 
taS-ma-a 33, 15, 16: 61, 19; fas-mz-i 4, 6. 

Sumilu “left”: m-mi-lu-uk-ki 8, 13; su-mi-li-ya g, 17 B; 
sumiU-ya 9, 17; 22, 18. 

§am& “heaven”: samu-zi 3,5; 6, 128; 8, 18; 10,4, 24; 12, 
1 1 9(?); 61, 8; Sami 4, 15; 16, 12; sami-i i, 5, 9, 30, 33 ; 
3, 8; 4, 24; 5, 12, 15; 6, 3, 4, 21, 7 1 , 100, 107; 7, 5, 9; 10, 
9; 12, 64, 81, 83; 13, 20; 19, 7; 21, 6, 10, 15, 73, 81; 22, 
39; 27,5,8; 31, 7; 32,7,15; 37, 7; 39, 8; 46, 11; 48, 
17; 49, 29; 50, 3, 8 ; 60, 5; 61, 5; 62, 3. 9; Sami * 1 (ideogr. 
IDIN, cf. 21, 81) 12, 28; 32, 9; sa-ma-mi 6, 7 8 DE; 7, 
16; 18, 4; 19, 18; sa-ma-mi 8, 24; sd-ma-mi 6, 78. 

I 1 i-sam-ma-mu 53, 11. 

sammu “plant”: sammu 12, 67, ioi, 104, 115; sammu-ka 
12,97; Samtni * 1 12,76. 

samnu “oil”: Samnu (ideogr. NI) 30,28; samnu (ideogr. 
NLIS) 11,45; 12, 8 bk , 11; Samni (ideogr. NI) 11,43; 
12,3,15,102,116; 21,29; 25,8; 30,22; 62,26; samni 
(ideogr. NI.I§) 11, 44 ; 3 ®, 26; 51, 13. 

Sl.MAN a plant: &*«§LMAN 12, 10. 

Samaru II 2 “to revere, to worship”: I 2 rsit-mu-rn 60, 
15; — II 2 lu-us-iam-mar 8, 17; 9, 11; 12, 91, 92; 54, 
6; iul-tam-ma-ra 21, 90. 
samni “violent”: sam-ru 21, 40. 41. 

Sa.NA “vessel for incense; censer”: 2,9; 8, 20: 11, 42; 
12, 4, 86, 118; 13, 14; 16, 11; 18, 19: 21, 74, 92; 22, 69; 
28, 6; 32, 3; 33, 39; 34, 6; 38, 4; 39, 5; 41, 2; 46, 10; 
47 , 7; 51,n; 52, 4; 62, 27. 

Sanitu times”: sanitu 6, 96; 8, 21; 12, 16, 99, 

103, 117; 15, 23; 18, 19^; 25, 7; 30, 27; 32, 4; 40, 13; 
52, 4; 61, 4; 62, 30. 

sananu “to oppose, to rival”: I 1 sa-na-an 1, 19;— IV 1 
is-sa-na-an 60, 10. 

sasu “to speak, to call, to invoke, to command”: I 1 ta- 

sa-as-si 6, 109; al-si-ka 6, 61; al- .6, 34; 

al-si-ki 4, 27; 6, 72; 7, 10, 62; 37, 8; 57, 7; si-si-ma 50, 





&arni] 


VOCABULARY 


179 


fp 

"JBtf 

bzui 

npttf 

iT0 

mtf 

mtf 

pittf 

Tltf 


10; sd-su-u 11, 4; — Hi ii-si-is-sa 13, 21; mu-sa-as - . 

21, 3- 

Saptu “lip”: sap-ti-ya 13, 22. 

sap&ku “to pour out”: iasapak(ak) 12, 3; 15,20; 21,29; 

30, 21; 33, 40; 62, 26; tasapak 12, 4; sa-pi-kdi 9, 37. 
sap In u that which Is beneath; beneath, under 1 ’: sa-ap-la 

6,46; sap - .57, 13, 14; &*//# 21,55; sapli-ka 

1, 15; saplaii '** 59, 4. 

saparu u to send”; is-pur-an-ni 12,98; lu-us-pur-ki 4,36; 
6, 81; 7, 18. 

Sipru “letter, message”: si-ptr- .16, 3. 

sakft “to be high”: il (glossed is)-ku-u 12,54; sa-kd-ta 
18, 4; — III 1 tu-sa-as-ka 2, 21. 

saku “high, exalted”: [sd]-ku 4 i 27, 5 CD; sd-feu 27, 5; 
sa-ka-a 2, 16; 3, 14; 21, 60; sa-kd-a 13,3; sa-ku-tum 6, 
77 DE; 7 i 15; 37 , * 3 * 

misrh “property, wealth”: mis-ra-a 8, 13. 
misritu: mis-ri-tu-u-a 10, 4. 
garbu “powerful”: sar-feu 12,18. 

sitrahu do.: si-tar-feu 11, 46. 
sarahu Ii “to be bright(?)”: sar-feat 1,6; — II 1 “to 
make bright(?)”; sur-ru-feat 6, 22. 
sarhu “bright(?)”: sar-fea 1, 18; sar-feu-tum 8, 22. 
sar(})-ta-a-ki 8, 6. 

surminu “cypress”: im surminu 12, 15, 102; 51, 13; 

imsurmini 30, 26. 

saraku “to offer, to present”: ta-sdr-rak 21, 74; 31, 10; 
ds-ruk-ka 2, 27, 28; sur-ka ig, 23; sur-kam-ma 9, 19$; 
sur-kdm-ma 9, 19; sur-ki 8, 17. 

Saruru “splendour”: sa-ru-ru 1, 30; sa-ru-ur 5, 12; sa - 
ru-ra-ki 8, 9. 

sarru “king”: sar-[ru? ] 60,2; sarru 1,50 C; 12,20; 
19,14, 15, 25; 33, 35; 41, 3; 46, 18; 52, 5; Sarru (ideogr. 
MAN) 1, 50; sard 61,13; sar 6, 38, 91; 7, 29; 22, 41; 
62, 31; sar (ideogr. MAN) 12, 87; LUGAL 60, 2; 
sarrani 62, 31. 





VOCABULARY 


[Sarratu 


180 


nnttf 

nnff 


□&n 

■wi 

'Em 

in 


inn 

bn 

rbn 

cbn 


non 


garratu “queen”: sar-ra-tum 12,89; 2 7? 3? 49? l 5l $ ar ~ 
ra-ti 24 , 3; 27, 3 C; sar-rai 4, 9, 11; 9, 31, 3 2 ; I2 ? 89 C; 

33 ? 9 » 47 - 

SlSl a plant: 12, 10. 

satu “to drink”: sati-su (ideogr. NAK) 53, 17. 

Sittu “misery”: si-it-ti 6,8; sit-tii 12,78; sit-ta 12, 78 C. 
sittutu(?): sit-iu-iu 11, 16; sit-tu-tu-um n, 16 C 

n 

TU a plant: tewTU 19, 17. 

tamtu “ocean”: iamti 61, 6; ta-ma-a-ti 18, 3; 21, 81; /#- 
61, 6; tamati* l 12, 28; 22, 42; 32, 9. 

tirtu “soul, spirit”: tirutiriu-u-a (§IR.UR.U§) 12, 58; 
&rutirti$ l -$u-nu (SlR.UR) 18, 7. 

tibfi “to come”: HI 1 u-sat-bi 13, 26. 

“to carry off, to take away”: lit-ba-lu 59, 10. 

t&ru I 1 “to turn, to return”; II1 “to bring back, to 
restore”: Ii 7/^59,21; li-iu-ra 6, 87; 7,25; 11,39; 
Iitura(ra) 4, 45: — II1 ti-i-m-u 9,15; 22,16; ii-i-ru 
22, 16 B; ti-ru-u 9, 15 B; tutira(ra) 2, 22. 
tairu “pitiful, compassionate”: ta-ai-ra-ta 6,63; 27, 
16; ia-ai-rat 27, 16 A. 

tairatu “compassion”: ta- ai-ra-tu- ka 46, 6; tci- 


ai- .22, 58; ta-ai-ra-tu-ki 6, 92; 7, 30. 

? ti-i-ri 18, 9. 

tatjazu “battle”:. -&a-zi 2, 49. 


tukultu “help, aid”; tukulti(ti) 2, 46; 9, 4. 

II1 ? mu-t&l-lum 58, 16. 

IH 1 “to entrust, to bestow”: li-sa-at-li-ma 12, 85 C ; li- 
sat-lim-ma 12,85; su-ut~li-ma-am-Ma 6,119; 10,19; 22 ? 
20; 60, 22;. -ma-am-ma 6,68. 

tamU “to speak, to declare”: I 1 li-ta-mi-ka 6, 125; 10, 
22; lu-ta-mi 53, 2g bis , 30; ln-ta- .1, 26; la-ta-am 






TI.SAR] 


VOCABULARY 


181 


18, 17; li-ta-mu-u 12, 112; li-tam-mu-u 12, 112 E; — 
IV 2 ? a-ta-ta-ma (= *atiatmu ?) 21, 19, 20. 
tamitu “word, oracle”: ta-mit 1, 16; tci-mit-ti-ka 1, 17. 
non “to hold, to grasp”: tarn-feat 2, 18; 3, 15. 

tappu “helper”: tap-pi-i 6, 117 ; 10, 18. 

tappntu “help”: tap-pu-tz 13, 4. 
tarrinnu a sacrificial feast: iar-rin-nu 2, 28; tar-rin-na 
2, 28 CD . 

TI.SAR ideogr. 12, 102; 30, 26. 



APPENDIXES. 

I.— LIST OF PROPER NAMES. 

Ai (ilu): HP" If 6, 126; 10, 23. 

AZAG (ilu): <ff 12, 86. 

AZAG.IZU (ilu): Hf" 12, 86 C. 

Anu (ilu): HP Tr 1, 9; 6, 2, 4, 6, 24; 7, 7; 8, 24; io, 25; 

35 ; 43 i 6; 46 , 14; 50, 6; 60, 11; 61, 5, 7; 62, 17. 

AN.£UL.[(LA.)Ml 5 ]: -*f- 12, 67,105; HF" T 

12,11,13,14,101,104,115; ►-►f- -set y*-*-**-1 2 ,103. 

Anunnaki (ilu ): 12, 32; 27, 2; h L r< 

4 , 13 - 

AsSur: 2, 26 D\ 50, 13; 56, 8. 

ASsur (alu): ^yy a 9,.. 

Assuritu (ilu): ►►f- gj£ J=f ^TTX ^ 5 °, 13; 5 ^, 8 ; HF“ 

^^y-yyi^2,2 6 z>. 

AfiSur- ban-apli (m): | *H~ ^ ^ 2, 26 D\ y ►>^p r £4! 

5°, 12; 55, 2; 56, 7; I 27, 11Z. 

la (ilu): Hf- -HIT yy 3, 7; 4, 7 , 10, 11, 15; 5, 18; 9, 24; 10, 25; 
12, 85C, 87, 89, 99, 105; 27, 7; 53, 4, 29; 61, 20; 62, 17, 21; 

<M I2 > 33; 9, a; » 5 i 



PROPER NAMES. 


183 

<J- <ff ,,,87; cm CS 01 4 , 8 ; 

>“< 12, 87 89 C. 

I-A.: m I? II 4 , 14. 

Igigi (ilu): HP -£ MIA 2, 44; 31, 11 (?); H L WIT 

4, 13; 6, 111; 10, 15; 12, 88; 18, 20; 30, 30; 36, 10; 39, 9; 
49 , 5 ? ’HP Hff £f*~ I****" 12, 32. 

Izida: t^TTTT HI^ 0=11 2, 46; 7, 4; 9, 4; 22, 4; 33, 8. 

Itura (Apsh): -mi & mi 4 , 14; 9,3; 53,3; 58,18. 
fkur: t^TTII V 1, 16; 2, 16, 31; 3, 14; 4,43; 6,85; 7, 23; 21, 60. 

LMAg.TIL.LA: fclffl HP< ^1 9,5- 

IMINA.BI (ilu): HP $ ^ 52, 5. 

Isagila: ^UTI '-IM 1 -III^IIM 1,42; 7 , 3 i 9 , 4 , 32 ; 14,8; 
16, 8; 22, 3, 40; 33, 24. 

Irua (ilu): ? ► 4 - If t¥*f 

IR.NLNA (ilu): 5 fPf £ff- 4, n. 

IHara (ilu, kaitabu): ->f- £2fT ff< &4T 7,59! 57,2,13; 

CCM- ~MTI t= ,, 34 . 

ISum (ilu): *“4“ —S= 7, 39- 

fsara: ^UU J&, E?—U 2, 12; 3, 10; 6, 22. 

IStar (ilu): -HP £Z?U ^ *, 29, 33; 5, », 15; 8, 3; HP <W 

8, 20; -HP K’-IAI 30, 19. 20; 31, 8; 32, 6, 14; 39, 3; 
MTI 8 , 20; 32, 2, 3. 

UD.DA.GAN (ilu?): -A *T ETT ce 12, 36. 

Utgallu ^ 7 «; : HP Mnl M 2, 14; 3, 12. 

Ba’u (ilu): HP 4 , 24, 47 ; 6, 7 B 77 , 85, 90, 95; 61, 21. 

BU . (ilu): HP ^ SI (*. ft -HP ^ «T?) 6,125; 

10, 22. 

Babilu: -HP 9, 4, 33? >M ^H^“ 22, 6. 





APPENDIX. 


184 

Bfl (tilth ^TII ^TTT *- 34 ; 2, II, 17, 30; 3, IO, 15; 5, 16; 6, 19, 
25, 30; 7i 7; 9. 2 4; I0 i 25; 27, 9 B; 43, 6; 60, 6; *-’►411 ^TTT 
19 , 33 ; H^ - <<■ 27, 9; H" 9 , 4 i; 5 °, 7 ; 62, x 7 - 

Bilit Hf- 35- J 4; HP" 21,58. 

Bilit-ili (Hu)'. H~ ^ ►S 1 6,71 E; 7,9,15,23,28; 9 - 34 - 

Borsippa: jEJsf 33 - 9 ; *=11 ’“Hf 

22, 4. 

Gibil (iluh Hf“ £^=T HIA 1, 6- 

GlS.BAR (iluh *=THP- 12, 86. 

Dagan (iluh HP" ftTT 2 - 44 ! 5 - 9 (?)- 
DU.DUL.KU (iluh HP- <M <J? 9. 3*. 

DI.KUD (Hu) '■ HP- < 14 = — 5,10. 

DU.KERRUD.KU (iluh 12, 24. 

Damkina (z/zzj: HF- £0 <M 3 - 8, 9; 4, 9 ; I2 - 89 - 

Dur-ilu: HP* < 1^1 6, J 8- 

ZA.GAR (ilu): 4 HS-. a- 

Zarpamtu Hf" H *"H[ H- <Ef 22 - 2 - 

KAK.SI.DI (kakkabuh ES^HF" H HPT < 14 = 49 , 20; 50, 29. 

KIRRUD.AZAG.GA: <jg[ <}} E^ITa 46, 13. 

KU.TU.SAR (ilu): HF" M -m 21,59; 46,12; HP~ 
M ^ 27,3. 

LUGAL.KIRRUD (ilu): H~ <g=f 12, 25. 

MUL.MUL: ^fH^ - ►> 4 HP' 47 - 6; 48, 16. 

MI.MI ('ilu): HP- b b 34 , 5 - 

Marduk (ilu): HP- <CT 4, 46, 48; 6, 91, 97, 102; 7, 29; 9, 3, 
9, 2i, 27; 10, 3, 6, 7, 10; ii, 1, 7, 30, 40, 41, 42; 12, 2, 16, 17, 
21,26,27,95,98,114; 13,12,13,31; 14,11,12; 15,17; 16, 
10; 17,5; 18,19^; 22,9,41; 42,26; 53,3,4,27; 59,18; 



PROPER NAMES. 


185 


-4~ *TTT -^4 2,47; 13,15; 22,24,36,38; 43,2; ► 4 ~ 

--T<I-T 12, 85, 88, 105, 114; 62, 25; »~4~ -g^T 

-^=T 18, II, 18; 22, x, 70; 33, 6. 

Mugtabarru-mfttanu (kakkabu): t> 4 “ 4 " Sff- 4 4®, 9- 

Nabu (Hu): JlJ j£ 4 T 22, 70; >^4-£?f II; 32; 22, 

3, 30, 37, 62, 68; 33, 23; 1,42; ?-4I4T^ 22, 28. 

NA.GAL.A (ilu): -4 ET- 4 11, 3 6 - 

NLDU.[NI?] (ilu): EjfcpT e* [EM 53, *>,*.. 

Namra$It (ilu) : £^ 1=1 ^ J 9* 

Namtar (ilu) : -> 4 - 4 * ►>^r i, 49. 

NIX.(*/«;: ->4 € 9 , 31. 

NIN. (ilu): ^4 >K 44 , i- 

NIX.A.(*/*): -4 4 ! 61, 21 . 

NIN.A.KU.KUD.DU (ilu): HP 4 A 42, 23. 

Ninib (ilu): -4- t-ET Id! 2 , 25, 42; ->4 4- 50 , 29 ; 55 , 2 (?). 

NIN.GAL (ilu): ^4 ^ 4 “ i, 31; 5 - 13- 

NIN.MIN.NA (ilu): ^4 ^J--gJ -H 20, 6; 27, 4. 

NU(N).NAM.NIR (ilu): HP 4 -4* ^44 27, 1; HP -44 

-!I *tm *1,1 D. 

Nannaru (ilu), cf. Sin. 

Nusku (ilu) : ~f 4® 6, .8. 

Nirgal (ilu): H - 4 HT n, 34; 27,4,15^,25; 28,5; 46,11; 
-4- 27, 10. 

S1B.ZI.AN.NA (kakkabu): tsW- 4=® AT* -A - r I 

50, 1, 28; 51, 9,10; 52, 3. 

Sin (ilu): HP KK A 1, 2, 12, 16, 31, 39; 4,17, 39 ? 5 , 13 ; 6, 36, 
63, 64, 65, 66, 113 F-, 7, 20, 60; 19, 10; 27, 11 ^ 4 ; 23, 8; 24, 

5,6; 27,8; 31,11; 50,14; 53,24; 54,2; 55,3; 56,9; 57,4; 

z 





APPENDIX. 


58, 6; 59, 12; 61, 16; 62, 16; ((( 60, 19; ^TI 

28; 24, 4; 25, 5; 26, 4; >-11 2 3, 6 ; 26, 3; 

HF - 1,1 ; 6,70. 

Pi$u { kakkabu ): ►►f-HF* 46,11. 

Rammanu ( ilu ): 20, 10. l6; 2X, ig, 24, 25, 28, 32, 

36, 4 J i 72, 73i 76, gi; 5°! 8; 59,18. 

§ala ( ilu ): HF" "01 2 9 , 2. 

Sama§ ( ilu ): >- 4 - 1, 10, 32; 5, 14; 6,112,127; 10, 13. 23, 26, 

30; 12,35; 32,8; 45,3; 53,4.6,16,23; 56.2; 59.8,18; 

60, 4, 5; 62, 16; >-*f- 53t 19- 

Tasmitu ( ilu ): -f m t- i) 37, 51, 52; 2, 9, 10; II, 

33; 33, 10, 20, 37, 38. 

II.- LIST OF NUMERALS. 

I: J 12, 11, i2 ter . 

ii: yy 22,31; 35,9; 51,9,10; 61,11. 

hi: yyy 6,96; 8,21; 12,16,99,103,117; 15.23; 18,19^; 

25.7; 30,27; 32,4; 40,13; 52,4; 61,4; 62,25, 
29, 3 °- 

VII: Ip II, 37; 25, 8; 31, 9; 40, 7; 61, II. 

viii: yyyy 4 8, is. 

XV: 61, II. 

XIX: 61, u. 

XX: 61,12. 

XXX: «< 2, 18; 6l, 12. 

XXXVI: «<ffi 40, 8. 

L : $ 35 , 15 * 

CXXXIV: yy-«<? so, 3 l 





LIST OF NUMERALS ETC. 


187 


III.— PORTIONS OF WORDS AND IDEOGRAPHS 
OF UNCERTAIN READING. 

i, i h-. . . . 4 sa- .; 24 ni- .; 26 KAB.MIS; 

31.. in-nin-na; 32. -mat; 34 da- .; 35. -mu ; 

u . -tu dan-. . . . 36.2, 1.-afc; 4 

.- ki ; 6.-£0; 45 ..... lj-ti; 48.-i#; 5° 

. -ra; 4, 2. -sir. 6. -ni; . -sut(?)- .; 

7 siilim?)-. . . . 13. -mz-at; 15. -ti; 16 su-ut- 

iu- .; 21 1///-.; 28 dug-gun (?) di- .; 33 .; 


34 lut(d)- .; 38 sa - .; 47. -si-su ; 5,1 ri-z- . 

2 ti-ki-. . . . .; 4 . . . . .-bu-ri; 5. -ur(lik? i. e. [fyul]-lik) 

12. -tu; 13. -in-nin-ni; 14.- am-ti; 16 da- . 


1 7 

. . 

. . .-mu; u . . . 

. 18 


,-tuffz; 19. 

,-pur(?)- 

ru- 

u; 

6, 23 u-pak-ku-. . 

* * ni 

25 is. 

. . . 26 iis-ii-. 

• - • * 1 

29 

ri ■ 

.; 29^ sa-. . . . 

• *; 30 


- *; 31 

. . 

. . 

. -fir; 

32 a *.. 

. • 36 na- .; 40 gi- .; 

51 

. . 

. . .-li-- .; . 

. . . ,-ti 

; 5 2 - * 

■ . .-i-ma; 53 • ■ • 

. .-nun- 

su ; 

54 tuk(isu?) . 


.-nam; 

56.; . . 

. . -ya; 

57 

. . 

. . .-sa; 58 . . . 

■ 59 bu-. 

• • . . -u; ■ 

... .sa- 

mi- 

■ nim-ma ; 60 i-ta-su-ui 


.-bi ; 61 


-i- .; 

79. 

E 


da-ia-. 

. . . .; 84 


90 

a-. 

• • • •; 91 /«-■ • 

. . .; 101 . . . 

. .-tii-ki; 103 . . , 

. . .-ka; 

104 . 

. . . .-bi-ii; 106 

.... 

.-li; 108. -na-di-. 

***** 

109 . 

. . . .- ar-ma ; . . . 

. ta-a ; no . 

. . . .-Up; 117 . . 

. . .-su- 

///; 

1 

19 ka-. 1 

21 hi- 


; 128 li- .; 

; 7» 16 

. . 

. . 

.- kid?-ki ; 28 a-. 

. . . ., 

29 


***** 

55 

*2-. 

si- .; 58 li-. 

, . . 

i 63 . . 

. . -sa{f); 8, 5 

UZ-ki; 

/*-. 

. , 

. . .; 22 ma-. . , . 

■ *; 2 5 


. .. .-su- 

ti\ 

MU-u; 2 7 .... 

9 i 2 4 

UD.DU-ka; 28 SA.TAR 

i- .; 

30 

. . 

. . -turn; 1 ... . 

■ •; 36 . 

. -ma-li-tu; 42 VD.DA.GAN; 

.ftZ- 


•dak?; 43. 

-paUJyki; 44 


. . . .; 

» . 

. . 

.-ut-M; 47 ... . 

.- kir ; 

49 . . . 

. .-HI; 51 . . . . 

•*; 55 

, . 

. . 

.-ki suk- .; 

56 .. 

. . . lumijdum?)- .: 

; 3 

. . 

. . 

-ri-su-nu; 5 . . . 

. .-/z-.?#(r); 11 

ni- .; 12. 

. . . .-ris 

a-iu 

• • • •; . 

-in; 18 


-su-th; 19 ka-. . . 

..; 20 

/«- 

. . 

. . .; 24 li~. . . . 

• ; 25 li 


; 28. -ka; 

30 nap- 

//-. 

. . 

. . 31. -in 

; 32 - • 

. . .-la; 

33 RA ZIB.BA MI .; 


z 2 





















































































































1 83 


APPENDIX. 


34 ..... A .; ii, 14 ar-ra -.; 16. -ka; 17 

. -a; 19. -ka: 22 . -ni; 12,5 ma-kan- 

na(?); 10 ARA-rad [?istini${?iis) RAD]; 13 GU.GAD; 14 /<T£ 7 ; 

17 .- ru-bu; 18 .... .- ti-um ; 19 .... .-sar-su; 20 

sil- .;.-Z«w; 21 5 #-.; . . • . 22 a-/z-.; 

23.-ai-jsw; 24.26 ... . ,-zi; 31.-w/(?)- 

su-nu; 34.36. -sir-si-na ; 37.- turn ;.-rz- 

41.-raw; 44 J 7 -.; 46 ^764 ib -.; 

47 ii-ma- .; 51 ia- .: 5 2 .; 53 ku{T)- .; 

54 su-. . . . 57 BAR.DA (; mas-da ?); 60 545 iV. 4 ; 60 5 

.63 £.80 C KLR 1 BMU.NI.NI.SU.U; 96 

it-tu~bu~. . . . .- pat-su BI-u : A 7 54 iV 77 ; 96Z?.-i: 

97. -bu-ii-su; 102 ARA [istinis{nis)?]\ 104 UD.DU[mu&urP ]; 

BUR; 108. BUR; tog lim -.; 131 2 HD .; 

3 /-.; 7 ma x 1 //-.; 16 ... . -la-at; 17 

. -ba sit-ka- .; 18.22 it- .; 30 

/»-.; 33 .; 14. 2 .- lim(?)-man-ni ; 5 

. . . . .-turn; 13.- lit-su; 14.18. 

15. 1.2.-/zmz; 3. -ku; 6.- tuk ; 

12.- sut-ka ; 13.-to; 14. -bu-ka; 21.-&/- 

i//; 25 ... . .-a#; 26.- ku-nu ; 16, 5.8. -ka: 

17,3 GUR.UD .; 4 lu- .; 6.-wz; 7 AR{at)\ 

7 . . . . .18, ii.- ku-[til]; 3 ma-a- .; 19, 2 

.3 ma- .; 20. -rat-ti-ka; 23 PAL-nia: 

27.-rz; 20, 1. -ka; 4.-/zz*z; 5. -da 

si -.; 6 DAGAL (; iimmul ) J 74 567 ?.; 13 AN.ZA .; 

18 .- kip: 19. -ni-bu la--. . . . .; 20.-.sz/ 

iar-.; 21, 1 «(?>.;. -ru-sa ; 2 ^2-.; 


3 . . . .;. -tim; 4 pa- .; 5 Jrzzr-.; 6 7&z-.; 

. - fi ; 7. -ti-ya; nap- .; 9 mu- .;. -nu; 


10 

#/-. . 

. . ’ IT C/Z-.: T9. . 

. . . .; 2'-. 

. . . .; 13 da-. . . . .; 

14 

la-. . 

. . .; 15 

.-ia; 16 

* ? * * 

. GAR; . -lu; 

ru- 

. . . . 

17 di-bi- .; . . . 

. .-an; 

18 .... .-am-rna; 

19 

.... 

.-ka; 2 6 

ru~. . . . 27 . 

. . . -ik; 


30 

. . . . 

.-tab-ka 

-wzz; 31 SIT . 

. . . .; 


3 2 

ki~. . . 

• *; 33 * 

•. . ni ; 38 . . . 

. -bu-. 

. . . 39 , . . . .-a- 

/i-. 

* * • *» 

42 .... 

-ri as-tu- .; 43 .... 

,-i-di mus-tar- .; 

44 


. . . .; 

. . . .- pal-lu-u 

sal-. . . 

• •; 45 .; 


. . . . 


-is ta-sib- .: 

; 46 ni-. 

• • • -5 mi- .; 































































































































PORTIONS OF WORDS AND IDEOGRAPHS. 


189 


47 %l " .;.-«( ? ); 49 tu- .; 51. 1,1 ; ab- .; 

53 . -tak-ku-u ; 54 ta- .; 6 2 bal- .; 69. -yd; 

74 . -ta; 76.- ta-az-nu: 77. -bi- .; 

.-»/-£«; 78. -pi-i-ti; 79. -tu- .; 82 

.- mit-ka; 83. -du-u; 84. -bi-i; 85. 

rt-bu- .; 86. -Sa-am iz- .;.- ti-ma ; 87 

. U-A; 90. -ka; 22, 13 GUB.BV.DU; 19. -kis; 

21 a-ta- .;. -ti Its- . \ 22 Uu .; ki- .; 

24 KAN .: KAN.SIR-ka (?); 25 ilu .; 26 ilu .; 

. -ka; 29 /.; 32 ARA [?iStinis(nis)]; 34. -i\ 

35 . 39 .- mar-raS ; 40. -tu-u; 43 ii-tak- 

k u .; 46 ki-di- .; 47. --a-tu; 48. -na 

ifc-sa- .; DI.Dl(is); 49 UGU-ina ; 50 kil-lim- .; gi 

. -ka; 52 im-mur- .; 53. -a-ni; 54. -ti; 

55 ka- .;. -ya; 56. -sid; 57. -ka; 58 

. -a; 23, 4. -da-ar-ti; 9.24, 1. -id-, 

2 . -bit ik- .; 3 ra- .; 25, 2 dir- .; 3 a- 

ti(dif)-ra- . ; 4 in- .; 6. -ki-itn ; 7. -ti; 

2^? 2. -bil ; 3. -si; . -sal-tu; 8. -an-ma; 

10 . -bur; 11. -tim ; 27,6 LA.TI-su; 22 . -sir; 

26 A . IN.DUL-ki; 28, 7. -u; 29, 3 lIu .; 30, 4 

in-na- .; 5 a-ku- . ; si- .; 8 di- .59 ki- .; 

11 H- .; 12 MUN.GU; da- : -; 20 URU TI; 24 SIDidi); 

25 ARA [1 istinis{nis)]\ 26 MU.SAL; MI; 29 ki- .; tu- .; 

3 1 ) 7 ' U . 5 9 tar-biiy); 32, 1. -bu; 6. -na; 

8. -ti-ma; 12 . -ni-ki-ma; ba- .; 13. -ru- 

ki\ 15. -ki-ma; 33, 1. -zu-zu; 7 dan{})- .; 

. IL du-ru- .; 13. -i-kis-ki; 14. -ri; 

.... .-si-na US-LIK; 16 . . . . .-at; 17. -ris-ma; . -nu; 

*8 is- .; 19. * z ; 4°. GA; 44 TAG-vta; 45 

am- .; 46 .... . KAMSAHQ); u- .; 35, 3 ri,.; 

7 DIM .; 11 SAG.GA .; 13. -mi-ik-ti; id- .; 

15. ~ sa b (?); A.BA (arkafi); DA.RA; 36, 1. -ki; 2 

... 4 tur- .; 6 ’ lu . ... .; 9. -ma; 

10 ba-si- .; 37, r {!u .; 3.38, 1 di- .; 

39,6 sar- .; 7. i- .; 11. -bu-u ; 

13 . -ki; 14. -ya; 15. -ni-ma; 17. -mab- 

ra dan- .; 40, 1. DI; 3 . * l -Su; 1 M.IL ilu .; 

4 . -tit; 5. KVR.NA TU.UD.TA; 6 . -nis-su- 













































































































APPENDIX. 


IQO 

tin - nu SIR ; h&uitu m . . . 7 . -rit-ta-su; iu - .; 8 

AS.A.AN SIR .; 9 . -na\ ZU.DU; 10 SIJL(ka); 


13 ... . .-su ; 14. -su DIM.SID ; 15 ... . bu-ma; 42, 2 

4 u-tag-ga (?)-.; 5. -ri- ki- .; 6 ta- 

ta-na-ru- .; 7 ri-/- .: 9 ZIG.GIR-ka; 11 D 1 M.KU; 

ir-. . . . 12 pi- .; 14 mun-nap{b)- .; 16 UD .; 

17 ki- .; 19 a-zu- .; 21 ul- .; 43, 1. -bu- 

.; 44, 3. -*a; 4. KU p! \ 5.-»«; 45 i 1 

. -ti; 3. -urn; 4 * /w .; 6. -ra-ka; 8.-iz# 

.; 10. -bil: 46, 3. -ka; 6. 

7 . . . . .-si; 12. -ti; 21. -iu; 22 . -ii; 47, 1 


. -z ru- .; 4.- na-ku-mi ; 48, 1. ni-ti; 2 

. -a-ii; 4 . -sa; 5 . -a-ti; 6 .- li-ku ; 7 

. . . . . MIN ; 8. -ri; g. -su; 10 ... . .-/zr, 11 

. -ziz; 12.-£/; 13 ... - .-ziz; 15. -ki; 49, 2 

. -zi-ti; 3. -mar; 4.7. -ai-ii; 9 

. -iu; 10 ... . .-///(?); 11. -ni; 12. -ru-sa- 

a-ii; 13 . -u; 14. -u; 17.- ma--u ; 18 . -si- 

la-ku; 24. -ru-ii; 26.- sa-an-nu; 27 ... . A 1 ; 50, 

11 A . -zi; 19 u-sa&- .; 2 3 B u-sur- .; 2 7 B 

kahkalu , .; iiu DUMU .;. -ti-. . . . 51,3 . -pal; 

5 . -ma; 6 u- .; 12. -za-za; 14. SI; 

mNAM .; 53, 2. -ki; 15 GURTAP.PIDU ;.-Jte; 

17 SUA.RU.LA-, 18 SA.KASKAL-, 20 f. [NJ]DU 

GAL {musilu, oxpitii, rabitl); 22 nam-sa-ki-su-nuQ ); 27. 


28 ... . . -pal-Su; 30.56, 2 ih \ 

4 ki- .; 5 in- .; 57,11 mu- .; 17 su-. . 


19 


-mt-> 


5S, 1 




ft. 


,-an- 


10. -ka; n . -na; 12.15. -si¬ 
tu ; 16. -mi; 18. -ki; 59, 1. * l ; 2 . -ni; 

DUB 3 NUN .; 4 BUR 8 nu-. . . , 

9 ir- .; 11. -ti-ka; 15. -ya Us- .; 16 

.- li-na-an-ni ma-kUJ)- .; 17 in-an-na- .; 19 

. -tab-ba-la-ka ta- .; 6o, 4 KI; 12. * l -ka; 14 

at-ta- .; 15. -di-ri-ka; sa- .; 16 SI.MIS; 17 

. -mat; 18 .... -ri NI.RUS; 22 . -us; 61, 2. -sat- 

ki; 3. IN TI; nu- .; 10 SAX A; 15 at-ta- .; 

17 GU.ZUR-ki u-kul-li- .; 18. -pi-ka; Hl-ka; 19 
































































































































PORTIONS OF WORDS AND IDEOGRAPHS. 


191 


an-. . . . 20.- tu-un\ 22. MA GU .; 

62,4 .... J l * 7. - la - mu ; 9 . -bu\ 11 . -da- 

a- 1 i\ 14 ... . Z 1 ; 18 . * l \ is-sal- .; 19 . it - 

24 ... . .-ak-ki SAR. 


ADDITIONS AND CORRECTIONS. 

P. 3, 1 . 11 leg.: “ug-da-Sa-ra”, for U uk-ta-sa-rd\ — Pp. 3, 11. 18, 
20; 113, 1. 31 leg. ; “sal”, for “saP\ — Pp. 3, 1 . 22; 33, 3 . 18 leg.: 
u s/r\ for “y//”. “ P. 3 . 1 - 23 teg.: “nmk”, for u muU\ — Pp. 3, 3 . 25; 
12, I. 9 leg.: “rik”, for ‘ 77 F. — Pp. 3, 11 . 27, 32; 57, 1 . 16 /<?£.: “yd” 
for - Pp. 3, 1. 32; 31, 1. 6 leg.: “slY\ for “Sir”. - P. 3, L 35 

Itg.i a M\ for u kd\ — Pp. 4, 1 . 2; 29, 1 . 33; 104, 1 . 22 leg.: u di-paY\ 
fur “ DIB AH \ — P. 4, 1 . 10 leg.: “puldnitum”, for “puldniium — 
Pp. 4, 3 . 16; 28, 1 . 36 leg .: “mid-la ”, for “imid-kl”. — P. 4, 11 . 19, 20 
“s/i”, for “c/F 3 . — AW., 11. 21, 24 for “li-id-kiP poss. read “ 11 - 
ta-rid*\ cf. Delitzsch, Haniw . p. 303. — Pp. 4, 1. 22; 97, 3 . 25 
“«f, for “ 5 //”. — Pp. 4, I. 25; 97, 1 . 37 “Ud-dip-piY\ for "lit- 

lu-ud”. — Pp. 4, 1 . 25; 97, I. 28 /*£•.: u Ii-ni- 9 ”, for &l li-sal~”\ — Pp. 4, 
1. 25; 17, I. 29; 24, 3 . 29; 44, 1. 17; 97, 11. 2, 29; 103, l 10; no, 
1. 15 leg.: “kin”, for “kin”. — P. 4, 1. 37 leg.: “bi-il-fum”, for “bi-il- 
lum\ — Pp. 5, L 18; 35, 1 . 34; 60, 3 . 33 leg.: “newly shining”, for 
“unique”. — P. 5, 3 . 24 leg.: “is mighty”, for “he gathers”. — P. 6, 
1. 7 del. “(with) shouts of joy”. — Ibid., 1 . 21 leg .: “Torch”, for “Lady(?)”. 

— Pp. 7, l 3; 19, 1 . 17; 27, 3 . 33; 35, 1. 8; 42, 1. 36; 47, 1 . 5; 99, 

1. 5 leg.: “accept”, or “acceptetii” for “remove”, or “take(th) away”. — 
P. 8, 1 . 8 f- leg.: “incantations” for “incantations”. — P. 10, 1 . 19 leg. : 
“far”, for “for”. — P. n, I. 28 leg.: “►►p” fo r — Pp. 13, 

1!. 14, 15, 23; 25, 3 . 30; 56, 1. 6; 57, 3 . 22; 68, 1. 6; 105, 11. 21, 24 
leg.: “ ms ”, for li nts”. — P. 13, 1. 27 leg.: “ ipus ”, for “ ipus — Pp. 13, 
3 . 28 ; 16, I.23; 22, 1.6; 52, I.26; 105, I.24 leg. : “minuhi ”, for 
“ minfdu — P. 13, 11 . 35 ff. <&/. note to 3 . 30. — Pp. 15, II. 7, 31; 
44, 1 . 4 e W” for *W*. — Pp. 16, 1 . 18; 17, 1 . 17 leg.: “life”, for 

— Pp. 16, 1 . 19; 17, 1 . 23; 29, 1 . 21; 31, 1 . 24; 32, 1. 20 leg.: 
u nar-bi-ki{kay\ for u lib-bi-ki(ka)”. — P. 16, 1 . 21 leg.: burdSD, for 
“hurasD. — Ibid., I. 28 leg. : “pti\ for “bu”. — Ibid., 1 . 33 leg.: “tns-ii-sir*, 
for “ tus-ii-sir — P. 17, 1 . 11 leg.: U pu ” for li bu”. — Ibid., 3 . 26 leg.: 
“Mf, for “MY. — Ibid., 1 . 34, n. 7 add. “The dupls. B and C I have since 

“joined”, and it is now clear that the reading of B for 1 . 24 is IT 

<^TT- — Pp. 18, 1. 5; 19, 1. 26; 30, 1. 8 leg.: “greatness”, for “heart”. 

— Pp. 18, 1 . 33; 27, II. 23, 26; 35, 1 . 2; 40, 1. 15; 115, I. 19 leg.: 
“judgment”, for “judgement”. — P. 19, 1 . 24 leg.: “esteem”, for “com¬ 
mand”. — Pp. 20, 1. 13; 79, 1 . 38; 83, 1 . 30; 90, 1. 14; 100, 1. 8; 
104, 11 . 6, 19 leg.: “ KISDA ”, for U SAR". — P. 22, 1 . 15 add. “but 















192 


ADDITIONS AND CORRECTIONS. 


cf. Lyon, Sargon, p. 81” — P. 23, 11 . 27, 33 leg,: “hi 7 , for “ptF in 
surbu. — P. 24, 1. 27 poss. read “3. [rubu] u [sagganakku] . 

— Ibid,, 1 . 28 leg,: “li-kir 77 , for “li-piF. — Pp. 24, 1 . 33; 25, 1 . 3; 

58, 1. 30; 119, 1 . 11 leg.: “kaF, for “kaF. — P. 25, 1 . 6 leg.: “TUB 77 , 
for “TUR 7 . — Ibid., I. 7 leg.: fit]~pi-[$i] 7 \ for “. -pi-. . . . 

— Mid., L 25 leg.: u lim-[daf\ for “si- .— Pp. 25, L 29; 32, 

1. 4; 38, 1. 6; 75, 1. 5; 79, 1. 7 leg.: U ib-sa-ki{ku) uznd du -af 7 , for “ip- 
$a-kz{ku) umd du -ai ”, i. e. u l have considered thee! 5 ’. — Pp. 25, 1 . 32; 
32, 1 . 32 f.; 38, I. 9; 41, 11 . 4, 6; 44 , 1 . 34 leg.: “kani 7 , for “gAm”. — Pp. 26, 
1 . 6; 32, 11 . 2, 10, 16, 21 leg.: “Bdu”, for “Bad 7 . — P. 28, 1 . 13 leg.: 
“If if 7 , for “If ii 7 . — P. 29, L 16 leg.: “su 77 , for “su”. — Pp. 30, I.22; 
31, Li; 34, 11 . 11, 19 f. leg.: “Nusku 77 , for “Nuzku”. — P. 30, 1. 22 
leg.: V’, for “IF. — Mid., 1. 27 leg.: a-hi [ildni^ 1 ] 77 , for “a-bi]-. .. . 

— Mid., 1 . 31 leg.: “kiP 7 , for “hi 77 . — P. 31, I. 17 leg.: “bu-iuk-[in?n]”, 

for “hu-tuk-[kul] 77 . —- Pp. 32, 11 . 7, 14; 38, 1 . 19; 44, 1 . 23 leg .: 
“Mm 7 , for “gam 77 . — P. 32, 1 . 19 leg.: “UP 7 , for “Hi”. — P. 33, I. 33 
Mg.: K 8605”, for “K 3605” — Pp. 33 , 34 ; 74 , H. 23, 26; 79, 1. 5 

leg.: “simdfM 1 * 7 , for “sirndiM 1 ”. — P-37, L 12 add.: “but see ZA I, 
p. 56”. — P. 39 1 . 14 leg.: “{si) 77 , for “(si) 77 . — Mid., 1. 16 leg.: “51. 
dr-sa-H-i Iimnuti{fi) sa” etc. — Mid., 1. 18 leg.: “marustu 77 , for “sa 
mursu”. — Mid., 1 . 19 leg.: “kalii 7 , for “kdlu 77 . — Mid., 1 . 22 leg.: 
“dr, for “up 77 . — P.41, 1 . 16 leg.: “ri-min-ni-ma 77 , for “rimi-nin-ni-ma 77 . 

— Pp-41, 1 . 25; 82, 1. 15 leg .: “ dumkf 7 , for “ damiktu 77 . — P. 41, 
1 . 32 leg.: “luf, for “hit 77 . — P. 43, 1 . 6 leg.: “countenance”, for 
“brightness”. — Pp. 43, 1 . 17; 46, I. 16 leg .: “revere”, for “behold”, 
cf. Tallqvist, Maqlu p. 144. — P. 44, 1 . 4: K 10354, 11. 2—7, is 
depl. of No. 9, 11 . 1—5. — Ibid., 1. 13: L. 9 is expanded to form 5 11 . 
in K 10243, which is dupl. of No. 9, 11 . 1 —13. — Mid., 1 . 19 leg.: 

for V’. — Mid., 1 . 22 leg.: “saP 7 , for “saF; “-u 77 , for — 

Mid., 1 . 28 leg.: “ UD.DU-ka 97 , for “ urru-ka 77 . — Mid., 1 . 33 leg.: “//- 
ru-u'\ for “li-ru 77 . — P.45, 1.5 leg.: “DU”, for “TUB 77 . — Ibid., 
1 . 8 leg.: “buF, for “bid 77 . — Mid., 1 . 38 leg.: “A 77 , for “B 77 . — P. 46, 

1 . 24 leg.: “19. Grant speech, hearing and favour!” — Ibid., 3. 29 leg.: 

. ”, for “light”. — P. 48, 1. 25 leg.: “AF, for “Malik 77 . — Ibid., 
1. 26 leg.: “-ram- 7 , for “-ram 77 . — Ibid., I. 30 leg.: u ”, for “ u 77 . — 
Pp. 51, 1. 10; 52, 11. II, 15; no, 1. 19 leg.: “karradu 77 , for “karrddu 77 . 

— P. 51, 1 . 12 leg.: “ban ”, for “pan 77 . — Ibid., I. 27 leg.: “mudti-u 77 , 

for “mud 11 u 77 . — Pp. 51, 1 . 31; 88, 1 . 5 leg.: “hu 77 , for “pu 77 . — P. 51, 

L 32 leg.: “mi ” for “mi 77 . — Mid., 1 . 36 leg.: “niudd-iT, for “mudti-u 77 . 

— P.53: del. 1 . 8f. — Pp. 54, I.10; 87, 1,7; 95, 1. 3 leg.: “ gusuru ”, 

for “gusuru". — P. 54, 1. 14 leg.: “gur ”, for “gur". — Hid., 1. 18 
leg.: “arki”, for “arka”. — Pp. 55, 1 . 2; 58, 1 . 16; 82, 1 . 29; 87, 1 . 8 
leg.: “luluF\ for “ tubbal ”. — P. 55, 1 . 4 leg.: “sabal-ma ”, for “subli¬ 
me". — Ibid., I.18 leg .: “piiu-ii kup-pi ”, for “bil u-g{k)up-pi". — Hid., 
1 . 26 leg.: “ik”, for “ik". — Pp. 55, 1 . 29; 57, II. 11, 30; 59, 1 . 4 leg.: 
“Ui\ for — P.56, 1 . u leg.: “-sa”, for “sa". — Ibid., 1. 15 leg.: 








ADDITIONS AND CORRECTIONS. 


193 

u -up-pu~”, for “-wWa-”. — Mid., 1. 18 leg.: n tirtu'\ for “lirlu”; “dal- 
Jja-ma”, for “ri-faa-ma”. — Ibid., I 22 leg.: “61. ili-yd ilu istar amihiti 
salima(ma) lirsu-mi 3 . — 7 M 7 , 1. 25 leg.: “it%d-ni”, for “itifeu-ni 33 . — 
Mid., S. 29 Z^.: “limuiti”, for “li?nniti”. — F. 57, 1 . 2 leg.: “kid 3 , for 
“&r”. — Mid., 1 . 10 for “a/”. — 7 Z/ 7 ., 1 . 15 “0bdii^\ 

for “Mbdii? 1 ”. — Ibid., 1 . 19 leg.: “dumku”, for “damiktu”. — Mid., 
\ 31 after “reads” # 77 . pi-ka”; leg.: for £ "£tTTT ?? - — 

Mid., 1 . 32 leg.: a HP\ for li diF\ — P. 58, I. 14 “ KU.KU ”, for 

“BUR.DUR 33 . — 73 / 7 ., 1. 18 after “Z/ZZ” # 77 . “ 7 , 4 ”. — Mid., !. 25 
leg.: “tu- 3 , for “-tu”. — Pp. 58, 1.27; 68,1.13; 114,1.19 leg.: 
“dumkU, for “ damku”. — P. 58, I. 33 leg.: “lu-u 3 \ for “ld-u”. — Mid., 
1.35 beg.: u M-\ for u -fu\ — P.59, I. 8 “121. amilu 

kakkad-m ikkal-su lisanu-su ii-mk-kai-stT. — Ibid., I. 36 leg.: “far”, 
for “for 39 . — P. 60, 1 . 17 f. leg.: “oil in a vessel of urkarinnu- wood”, 
for “the oil of certain woods”. — P. 61, 1 . 2 leg .: “illustrious”, for 
“illustrations”. — Ibid., I. 9 leg.: “29. Who openeth wells and springs, 
who guideth” etc. — Ibid., 1 . 14 leg.: “benefactor”, for “director”. — 
Mid., 1. 34 leg.: “disturbed”, for “bewitched”. — P. 62, 1 . 2 leg.: “61. 
May my god and the goddess of mankind grant me favour!”. — Mid., 

1 . 27 leg.: “ointment”, for “.”. — P. 65, 1 . 16 add.: “Jensen, 

ZA IX, p. 128, and Tallqvist, Maqlii, p. 134”. — P. 66, 1 . 6 leg.: 
“transliterated”, for “translitarated” — Ibid ., 1 . 27 add.: “but cf. 
Delitzsch, Grammar, § 138 (end)”. — P. 68, L 2 leg.: “las 33 , for 
“las 33 . — P. 70, L 22 leg.: “mam- 3 , for nam — P. 72, 1 . 23 leg.: 

“.”, for “.” — P. 74, 1 . 21 leg.: “4. Ml bill 

.— Mid., 1 . 26 leg.: “kald-mcF, for “kala(?)ma”. — 

P- 75> 7 kg-- for “sii 3 . — Ibid., 1. 17 leg.: “u”, for “ 7 ”. — 

Mid., 1 . 29 leg.: “4. Lord of lords!.— Pp. 76, 1 . 29; 78, 

I.24 leg.: “u-pi-i”, for “u-mi-I 3 . — P. 77, 1. 11 leg.: “clouds”, for 
days”. — Mid., 1 . 13 leg.: “unsparing”, for “unconquerable”. — P. 78, 
1 . 9 leg.: “-Mr- 3 , for “-pis”. — Pp. 78, 1. 10; 79, 1. 15; 116, 1 . 18 
leg.: “dalili-ka”, for “dalili-ka”. — P. 78, 1 . 16 leg.: “GAB”, for 
“GAL”. — Mid., 1 . 28 leg .: “ la-it muk-iab-lu”, for “ la-id muk-tap-lu”. 

— Mid., 1 . 38 before “Hu 33 add.: “. . . . leg .: “saplu”, for “sapid”. 

— P. 79, 1 . 4 leg.: “ ilu KU.TU.SAR 3 , for “ ilu Marduk iu-sir”. — Ibid., 
\. 13 leg.: “ im-a ”, for “lisd-a”. — Mid., 1 . 14 leg.: “nikiT, for “nikz”. 

— Mid., 1 . 25 leg.: “-i-ti”, for — Ibid., I. 30 leg.: “it”, for 

— P- 80, 1. 33 leg.: “the goddess “MU.TU.SAR”, for “the god 
Marduk”. — P. 81, 1 . 13 leg.: “Ruler of”, for “who destroyest”. — Mid., 
1. 23 leg.: “90”, for “89”. — P.82,1. 7 leg.: “SU GIDIM{UTUGT).MA 
UHQ)”, for “kdl uiukki-ma imaf 3 . — Mid., 1. 12 leg.: for “u”. — 

Mid., 1. 33 leg.: “abkallu 33 , for “ abkallu“mudii-u”, for “mudu-u 33 . — 
P. 83, 1 . 3 leg.: “ iamati * 1 ”, for “tamati* b \ — P. 84, 1 . 10 leg.: “Bene¬ 
factor”, for “Director”. — Mid., del. I. 22. — P. 85, 1. 9 leg.: “abun¬ 
dance”, for “life”. — Mid., 1 . 10 leg.: “65. Speech and hearing bestow 
upon me!”. — Mid., I. 20 leg.: “abfcalli”, for “ ahgallU . — P. 86, I. 16 









1 94 


ADDITIONS AND CORRECTIONS. 


leg.: “K 12922”, for “K 13922”. — R 87, 1 . 24 leg.: “Mr”, for “tur”. 

— Ibid., 1 . 27 leg.: “hid”, for “kid”. — Ibid., 1 . 28 add.: “K 8953 f 
K 8987, cited as D, is dupl. of No. 27, 11 . 1—22; the variant readings 
of D are cited in the Vocabulary”. — R 88, 1 . 37 leg.: “A”, for “B”. 

— P. 89, 1 . 9 leg.: “art glorious”, for “treadest”. — P. 9 °. 1 . n leg.: 
“as”, for “har”. — Ibid., 1 . 17 leg.: “ub-”, for “-ub-”. — Ibid., 1 . 19 
add.: “since printing off I have joined No. 28 to K 6639 > th e dupl. A 
of No. 46, and to K 8953 eh., the dupl. D of No. 27”. — P. 92, 
1. 26 leg.: “ linnasih ”, for “linasifr”; “linnisi ”, for “linasi’. — P. 93, 1 . 14 
leg.: “suatu ”, for “suatu”. — Ibid., 11 . 33 ff. leg.: “12. May the s. of 

my b. be removed, may there be torn away the.of. 

13. May the g. of my h. be loosened”. — P. 94 . 35 “ dannati ”, 

for “dannati”. — P. 95, 1 . 4 leg.: “ kurmati ”, for “kurmatz”. — Ibid., 

I . 18 leg.: “Prepare”, for “Place”. — P. 97. 1 - 8 leg.: “US.LIK”, for 
“askur(ur)”. — Ibid., 1 - 15 f. leg.: “pulanztum”, for “pulanitum”. — Ibid., 

II. 24, 27 poss. restore “lil-[ta-rid] n , for “lil-[ta-kil]”. Ibid., 1 . 26 
leg.: “ ru ”, for “rn”. — P. 98, 1 . 4 leg.: “us-kzn-ma”, for “sukkii{ki)- 
ma”. — Ibid., 1 . 5 leg.: “ sdlimu ”, for “salimu”. — P. 102, 1 . 19 leg.: 
“ tislitu”, for “tislitu”. — R 103, 1 .17 leg.: “pardsi”, for “ parasi — 
P. 105, 11 . 25, 27 leg.: “(dr)”, for “(ar)”. — Ibid; 1 . 26 leg.: “Suati”, for 
“suatr. — P. no, 1 . 4 leg.: “lil ”, for “HI”. — Ibid., 1 . 18 leg.: “tab”, 
for “lab”. — P. 111, 1 . 2 leg.: “unsparing”, for “invincible”. — Ibid., 
1. 9 leg.: “13”, for “12”. — P. 114, 1 . 25 leg.: “K 2808”, for “K 2801”. 

— P. 115, 1 . 30 leg.: “besought”, for “glorified”. — P. 119, 1 . 13 leg.: 
“ inP l -yd ”, for “ini* 1 -yd”. — Ibid., 1. 20 f. leg.: “misiru”, for “misiru”. 

— Pp. 139, 1 . 20; 157, I. 7 leg.: “38, 4”, for “38, 3”. 



Number 


INDEXES. 


i 

INDEX TO TABLETS AND DUPLICATES. 


Page 

Plate 

Tablet 

Duplicates 

1 3 j 

; i 

\ j 
| ! 

I 

K155 

K 3332, cited as A; Sm. 1 382; K 
6019 (No. 5), 11 . 11—17, cited 
as B; K 3432 -j- K 8147 (No. 
33), 11. 19—38, cited as C. 

16 ! 

! 

4 

K 2487 + K 2502 I 
+ K2591 

K8122 (No. 3), 11 . 10 —16, cited 
as A; K 6477, cited as B; K 
9706, cited as C; K 223, cited 
as D\ K 11929, cited as E. 

23 

6 

K 8122 

K 2487 etc. (No. 2), 11. 11—20, 
cited as A. 

24 

7 

K8105 

K 12938, cited as A; K 10729, 
cited as B. 

29 

9 

K 6019 

K 155 (No. 1), U. 29—35, cited 




as A . 

30 

10 

K 2106+ K 2384 

K 3285, cited as A; K 3330 etc. 



+ K3393 + K 

(No. 7)" 11 . 9—32, cited as B; 



634° + K 8605 

K 9087 (No. 37), II.7—13, cited 



K 89S3 +■ N 
9576 + K 9688 

as C; K 8815, cited as D\ Rm. 
96, cited as E; Sm. 336 -j- Sm. 



+ K11589 +K 

1385, cited as E; K 5980 etc. 



12911+K13792 
+ K 13800 

(No. 10), 11 . 7 ff. 

37 

15 

K3330+ Sm. 394 

K 2106 etc. (No. 6), 11 . 71—94, 



+ 81—2—4,244 

cited as A; K 9087 (No. 37), 




11 . 7—13, cited as C; K 8815, 

1 


1 

cited as D ; Rm. 96, cited as E 



196 


INDEX. 


SJ umber 

Page 

Plate 

Tablet 

Duplicates 

r==rj^===r: 


1 

j 


8 

41 

l8 

K 2396 -fK 3893 j 

K 3429 + K 8657, cited as A; 
K 2538 etc.. Rev. Col. Ill, 11 . 1 
— 21 {see IV R, pi. 21*), cited 
as B\ K 10243; & 10354- 

9 

44 

19 

K 2 558 + K 9152 j 

10 

48 

21 

K5980+K8746 

K 2106 etc. (No. 6), IL 97 ff. 

11 

5 1 | 

i 

23 

K 235 K 3334 

1 

K3283, cited as A; K6537, cited 
as C. 

12 1 

54 

26 

Kl63 + K2l8 | 

i 

i 

j 

K 6733, cited as A; K 3151^ cited 
as B; K 2379 + K 3289, cited 
as C; K 10807, cited as D\ K 
7984, cited as K 

13 

67 

32 

K 3229 


14 

69 j 

34 

K 2793 


IS 

69 

34 

K 2586 + K 7185 

. 

16 

70 

35 

K11681 


17 

72 

35 

K 5668 

K 6804, cited as A; K 11326 + 
K 11975, cited as B . 

18 

72 

36 

K 8009 i 

19 

74 

38 

K 34 


20 

76 

40 

K10406 


21 

77 

1 

41 

1 

1 

j 

1 

i 

1 

K 2741 +K 3180 
+ K3208 -j- K 
5043 + K 6588 1 

-J- K6612 + K 
6672 -j- K 6908 
K7047 K 

8498 -j- K 9157 
+ K9770 + K 
102194K10497 
+ K13431 +K 
13793 

j 

i 

l 

j 

i 

K 6334, cited as A; K 6853, cited 
as B; K 8982, cited as C. 

22 

Si 

! 45 

t 

! 

K 140 + K 3352 
+ K8751 + K 
10285 

23 

85 

I 

K 13277 

. 

24 

86 

1 48 

K 12922 

. 

25 

86 

S 48 

K 13296 


26 

87 

i 48 

K 10550 


27 

87 

49 

| 

i 

i 

! 

K2371 + K13791 

l 

K 2836 -f- K 6593, cited as A; 
K 11549, cited as 3 ; Sm. 398, 
cited as C; K 8953 +• K 8987 
etc cited as D. 
















TABLETS AND DUPLICATES. 


*97 


'Li 

© 

& 

s 

a 

IS 

0 

m 

CS 

ft 

Plate 

Tablet 

Duplicates 

28 

90 

50 

,K 3 355 [+K 6639 
4 K 8953 + K 
8987] 

j K 2371 etc. (No. 27); K 11153 etc. 
j (No. 46). 

29 

92 

5 ° 

K 13907 


30 

92 

51 

K 3448 

j.. 

31 

94 

53 

K 7207+ K 9675 j 

+ K13274 j . 

32 

95 

53 

K 3358+ K 9047 


33 

96 

54 

K 343 2_ i"K 8147 

K155 (No. i), 1L 36—52, cited as A. 

34 

100 

56 

K 11876 

35 

IDO 

56 

K 2757 


36 

102 

57 

K 9125 


37 

103 

57 

K 9087 

K 2106 etc. (No. 6), 11. 71—77. 
cited as A; K 3330 etc. (No. 7), 
1 L 9—15, cited as B ; K 8815, 
21 * 3 — 9 » cited as D; Rm. 96, 
11. 1 — 7, cited as E. 

38 

104 

5 $ 

Bn. 91 — 5 — 9 : 16 


39 

IO4 

58 

K 8930 


40 

*05 ; 

59 

K 2567 


411 

106 

59 

K 7916 


42 ; 

106! 

60 

K 3221 


43 i 

107 j 

60 

K 13355 


44 | 

107 

60 

K 14210 


45 | 

108 

60 j 

82—3—23,119 


46 ; 

109 

61 | 

Km5 3 +Rm.582 

K 6639 eic *> cited as A . 

47 j 

in 

62 

K 8808 

48 

112 j 

62 

El 8 I I 6 


49 

1x3 ! 

63 

D.T. 65 | 


50 

i 

64 

K 2808-f-K 9490 

§ 3 —1 —18, 500, dted as A; K 
12937, cited as B. 

51 

116 j 

66 ! 

K 8190 1 

52 1 

117 j 66 

K 6395 -f-KiO !38 


53 | 

”9f 67 

K 3859+§1x1.383 


54 j 

I 2 I j 

69 

Sm. 512 


55 I 

I 2 I j 

69 

K 6792 


56 I 

122 

69 

K 2810 

. 

57! 

122 

70 

K 9909 


58 

123 

70 

K 6644 


59 

124 

7 i 

K 7978 | 


60 

125 

72 

K 3463 | 


61 

126 

73 

K 8293 j 

K 3342, cited as A . 

62 

127 j 

74 1 

K 7593 1 

































ig8 


INDEX. 


II 

INDEX TO REGISTRATION-NUMBERS. 


N.B. The registration-number by which a tablet is cited is printed in black 
type; when two or more fragments have been “joined”, the tablet so formed is 
cited by the lowest of their registration-numbers. References are placed within 
parentheses; = “joined to”; dupl. = “duplicate of’. 


K 34 (No. 19); K 140 (No. 22); E 155 (No. 1); K 163 (No. 12); 
K 218 (4- K 163); E 223 (dupl. No. 2); E 235 (No. 11); E 2106 
(No. 6); E 2371 (No. 27); E 2379 (dupl. No. 12); K 2384 (+ K 2106); 
K 2396 (No. 8); E 2487 (No. 2); K 2502 (-f- K 2487); E 2538 etc. 
(dupl. No. 9); E 2558 (No. 9); E 2567 (No. 40); E 2586 (No. 15); 
K 259 1 (+ K 2487); E 2741 (No. 21); K 2757 (No. 35); K 2793 
(No. 14); K 2808 (No. 50); K 2810 (No. 56); E 2836 (dupl. No. 27); 
E 315 1 b (dupl. No. 12); K 3180 (+ K 2741); K 3208 (+K 2741); 
E 3221 (No. 42); E 3229 (No. 13); E 3283 (dupl. No. 11); E 3285 
(dupl. No. 6); K3289 (4- K 2379); E 3330 (No. 7); E 3332 (dupl. 
No. 1); K 3334 (4-K235); E 3342 (dupl. No. 61); K 3352 (4- K140); 
^ 3355 (No. 28); E3358 (No. 32); K3393 (4- K2106); E3429 
(dupl. No. 9); E 3432 (No. 33); E 3448 (No. 30); E 3463 (No. 60); 
E 3859 (No. 53); K 3893 ( 4 - Iv 2396); K 5043 ( 4 - K 2741); E 5668 
(No. 17); E5980 (No. 10); E 60x9 (No. 5); E 6334 (dupl. No. 22); 
K 6340 ( 4 - K 2106); E 6395 (No. 52); E 6477 (dupl. No. 2); E6537 
(dupl. No. 11); K 6588 (4- E 2741); K 6593 (4- K 2836); K 6612 
( 4 - K 2741); K 6639 (4- E 3355 ); K 6644 (No. 58); K 6672 (4- K2741); 
K 6733 (dupl. No. 12); E 6792 (No. 55); E 6804 (dupl. No, 18); E 6853 
(dupl. No. 22); K 6908 ( 4 - E 2741); K 7047 ( 4 - K 2741); K 7185 
( 4 - K 2 5 86); E 7207 (No. 31); E 7593 (No. 6 2); E 7916 (No. 41); E 7978 
(No. 59); E 7984 (dupl. No. 12); E8009 (No. x8); E 8105 (No. 4); 



REGISTRATION-NUMBERS. 


199 


K 9 I 5 2 (+ K2558); K9157 (+ K2741); K9490 (+ K2808); 
K 9576 (+ K2106); K 9675 (+ K7207); K 9688 (+ K2106); 
K9706 (4-K6477); K 9770 (+K 2741); E9909 (No. 57); K10138 
(+- K 6395); K 10219 (+ K 2741); E 10243 (dupl. No. 9); K 10285 
(+ E 140); K 10354 (dupl. No. 9); E 10406 (No. 20); K 10497 
(+K2741); E 10550 (No. 26); £10729 (dupl. No. 4); E 10807 
(dupl. No. 12); E 11153 (No. 46); E 11326 (dupl. No. 18); K 11549 
(dupl. No. 27); K 11589 (-f K 2106); K 11681 (No. 16); K 11876 
(No. 34); E 11929 (dupl. No. 2); K 11975 (+ K 11326); K i2 9 ri 
(-T K 2106); E 12922 (No. 24); E 12937 (dupl. No. 50); E 12938 
(dupl. No. 4); K 13274 (+ K 7207); E 13277 (No. 23); E 13296 
(No. 25); E 13355 (No. 43); £13431 (+ K2741); K13791 (+ £2371); 
K 1 379 2 (+ K 2106); K 13793 (+ K 2741); K 13800 (+ K 2106); 
E I 39°7 (No. 29); E 14210 (No. 44); Sm. 336 (dupl. No. 6); Sm. 383 
(+ K3859); Sm. 394 (-}- K3330); Sm. 398 (dupl. No. 27); Sm. 512 
(No. 54); Sm. 1382 (dupl. No. 1); Sm. 1385 (+ Sm. 336); D.T. 65 
(No. 49); Em. 96 (dupl. Nos. 6, 7, 37); Rm. 582 (-J- K 11153 4 
81-2-4,244 ( 4 - K3330); 82-3-23,119 (No. 45); 83-1-18,500 
(dupl. No. 50); Bn 91-5-9, 16 (No. 38). 


Bavarian Academy Press: F. Straub, Munich. 



CUNEIFORM TEXTS. 



N.B. The numbers which precede the foot-notes refer to the corresponding 
numbers in the text; when a note refers to one sign only, the number is placed 

to the right of the sign in the text (e. g. . x ); when a variant reading is 

given of more than one sign, the number of the note is placed on each side of 

the signs referred to {e. g. 1 . l ); when a note refers to a whole 

line of the text, the number of the note is placed at the beginning of tbat line. 
Duplicates of a text are cited by the capitals A, £, C etc. Restorations are placed 
within brackets [ ]; dupl. = “duplicate”; L = “line”; r. = “restored from”. 




Platei 






& 


W|gr 

M m *pr *r’ ^rrp^Rf 

k *$=Lr»^] 

fM ^F 4 £W 7 &- ^[r(i^J»w^C»»R»iF 4 ffWi 

m/rn^i^if^ ik^-^f 1 ] «w i<wii 

MHr^ifh^K^r stfj H ^M^irt^' 

JL 1 _ JL Z 



NO.1. REVERSE:. 

p^Wra^WfTff% % 

&*ripEr p - ^ < ^fr <w^^//M//mm 

jrijr^ rF gpr v * gp' ^F<mr< ^ t^i 
v<^rw*«£p ^rgg- ^L^rj 


wm»~ §*vsnrPMK*f? ^crFJ 


Ho 


<&- <p^i?£= t?mr># 








Plate 3. 


No.-t. rey.ccqnt:) 




•eMSF**** Vk' . . 


V < VpET^M 


m 


^pgE-EpBg ** 


*sr*$rEr 




-w *3im& <^-^< mw- rt&qswtjpHfc 


W wprf i^r^-r^A^if * *wpr 

IWfcatiNMf<rr r4r Sf& ^te RF * ^r^T^Tt^K 

p^r 

k *w$r 


1 C^^. i.C<£#. XC« 8 fr-. +.$rV IrC aftauujtif SuMUt- 
**^ 1*1 |FMflFt^wi ® 5 Mi/ 8 r fcwv &ouv tt« C. v.c^HW 

Wf- f-c:# - .. s.a^e^ww^t^c. ' ^ 



Plat £4. 


NO.t. 06Y2.RSE.. 


ww/w/wm 




^ F^' 


M. ^ 

<JKF rjjk 

rr w^c ^ <^ 

W_ W Vtf MF<6 




^ ^V-< KTA^ft] 

W n pr < a 4>£ «*[# 

*r 4 

pHF 


<^r?F 

r *~tfnr*< Hnr**RrE^i>RTF*K V**rr f nrc^rf v^f 

M' wsflj; prr i$r <^r 

#T FpT ^ l&w*— t^F |B»~ >F^T 

z mm 4w= ^rf 5 *t m* $ wf h< 

i§gf ^ $r ^^tff 

wr# k ^mrAhffF *grV & *r* 

rrF^rrF^rr^p^F^^ #rmr 

g?m? tm ^ ^ 


kr 


20 


K^fZl, <Oo-f6, J cC£& 44 AM diLf>l of (£M~2 jO} KMjlj zM<u fl i4 oLJtl of & . tf-24; 

C, <4 oftt-ll-oZ) Kim j oC£ed.<uv J U cUM.oftLhJj) <^LKnqU 
&1-$J CctboCccd£ I Co cUJ>t. tri a. 3Z-iZ . 1. fk& CmJt&ts 11 oLj 11 14 In C~*J. 







Plate 5. 


NO. X. REVERSE. 


2 d 


5o 


m 


4o 


v up < ►&*<»*■ #m= *m 4- w 

v *pn ?»»- ^ ^ mm 

+ r^^if ^r v ^ g£ m:<^xT ^ ^ 

w^w ^ *s=^ hr ^ Wr^ 

pff^x^’j ^*v ~—<&—^ffp ^■vF 

^rp'TOi^r r**~ "fh^bi 
^ mTO^rr 
<ir« bfeit 4- <p£4- ^r^r it ff 

3 t*$r<riV py* <pr 

* ^r 


^ <$- ^f tf ^tp= *?= <r r^r 

IfhV tf *snr *#— pr # wr t ^ 

Hf # 8 F **ttf <^ « P# «F t^f RF* 

b*tlW- %T- &&$£- ZCv-ntf* lb-vy 

im **K £f a^»k#mthi 

UBEl <^r jgr y *P- Vf. BFWF>»y WPt^i 




3 o 


Sir 


40 


r^r^n g 


r- *^rpr ^ 


*XQt PftT IF **K ^ IK ^TFTf wK 

p?rKwF^^.&d 


^rr^^r^rFftF 

%r £T nK FW^^r 

I//,J '"~ . ~ IFf^WIMT 

W*RF>»K 

\/f<rW 


% 


m 

i.i^cj.^ij^m^. tx><. 3 . 2 ^ic^yT)£smmt.+xun 
<v-D,BfcU.w.—r&rt'rtHTwfAlPlF WP-wFXJ V 

wf S-.C wHkcJSfT. Sr,ct>. 

7.CD*4T S.CD «r P 'DR^PTFP^rfT *a *, f 1 . *7\ti^Uf/1/.. cX Y-M^fcfe. 


% 





\ %• j» 

tfK jg Bfe] 



-— i -&._ y _ v_ ~ * - 

iMr^-ww^r <p n i#**?ll| 
*r *r *h**. 

:ix*fr-<j <tff r—>**»»— w -n- 

;C*“«ir^«iir«8’^»R’ffH<7^!F v^^rp 

Jm-tflfc 

5* 


\vr 


tnKZSJ&f K.3$J3/0j* Z.tl.io-i6 imt, Uvns'+ufcwtj&fmru 

OdA) 4Lj6 t iS , +*4Lt6 £fcdL firt**-' hire U%*M 4vA, 3. A<. 4.AJT. 5-.A^. 



Plate 7. 


N0.4. OBVERSE. 




ff 15- ^ 


PF= 

frEWnrrr »- 


1 . 


<HW ■<& 


10 


>* mx 


r—wf 

fcrri-m'^n 


r^-wr^ 



10 


m Mf wm 
*r *wr tF 

^frnmkmmmmm i^Hnw < 

rrprRfriffJP' wftR; ' 

i<$$? $&!■&*»-] Jtimv*$. 

iw^mn- #<*w ^ if 

%%. 


rs 


M 


lo 


kAZy&j uAUk ScLtt,<uA } U Of *U.Vt-fy’j Kiojiy,cXUcuB c*du£l<$ituM. 

Z.UfrCtton. mrt*u Oft- €Aua 4 un&. 



Plate 8. 


NO.4. REVERSE 






v v ' * y ' ' 

EfcF**f 4 M 5 '<£* 9 r **“ < r Tf< 5 -K T"^] 

& RF m * 

ys ^ mm 

Dfti s^h; hw *r 







»- 


35} 


40 


«1 


'ftp <$^BF «&>4TFIf ^*Ffr Tf *JIp*R <JH-«P»I» 

wK<fewft 

$WW WF 

i^ 4 wt?<r^ *£r*w«p g= 

tfnqjnt]^*# <*$r^sr 
rV?^^<pw ^^wm 

[f 4sKpf 4fflR w^vti 

[»—-i v vmm 

lv-^l Vr~*psf$$ *r $p v bm 

IV *-1 m¥Rv$t < ^ EIFI 

MT^IK ^ <^WWL^1 

v-if* wtk t^c v^m^ *mmm 

< *r w=^ <$- <rr ^ j*— m i*m 

w m-^pTvt^r m&x ■ *f<w^ vtw^-4® 

•TRf ^*<r-sr. 

sif 


40 


■45" 



-■Vffprt'w if wtrf 

m^rr^rV <r ^ 

Ewf]p%«KlFrV^R^ **hf f^irrf&flr. 

^ ^ >??—^r Mr < ^ 

4-^ wf&wtr v-vt^rm’ 

% 



^.a.q-Se J <j^l^*A 1 U‘Uj±>f eitt-tr. i.Atf. S.A^ff. *.A»R. SAVjff 
^"Bpn»«>f—3. <.A«4f. 7 :AWfjp. *. A4l£. ^.A*i-. tt.A. 



Plate 10 . 


NO. 6. OBVERSE. 




wf**? WF 







4 




r/ /M//////ww/s//;m^ 


*E$r *e$t gf ijr g^gg r~ 


« 8 » 




^<p»R ££9F rvf 

*^r sr <$r ^ www 

fpfrffiriHr* mrfr^&r 

! r isssiS® 

►-wtw <?f l rm^- *$n 

p-wnrA^r t ^ $r ^ i 
rf^r rF mi/m/hm^ ^ w ; 

[nFnF^!F«i* 

<^I 



KSaaaTj k&ekJcZkstuAy “ *“££■ *f K 353oe^. «£.**, c£fe6t* B, U jxoJUy <Ufi. of 

^7M 5 J ic^oSjj «.jr-i3, cJzdcudj <&M.of'rt~yn 5 k.99htj CLS^xt,cX&LasJ}, 

*7**% et-Yi-te; fon<fi J &.1-l6,C&d<UE J * j**jL dufl *fet.p-fii(£*.«*<*<.- 

^4 trU. <ftt^Cru*4^44*ft aU ')» $316 * jgffSSSr, <u2tfiC<ci C* <L*M *f U.toS-tZifi* Z.JUfacht- 

*Lfmtuus*feU&-ur 3. A ^If<. 4.A f^T WT*$4?" AO*- 







Plate 12. 


N0.6.0BV.CC0NT.) 


jfc ,m% 




mm*tm 


$k —w «■ 
h «f 


te **' 


•*» y -» irti \ss/yy r \ 

!>£ w «*$r n $= ^ 

f 

i^nr ft »f<^| 

|HF-s^^r^ir «*«<| 

s£ftT 


1 ^.. 


(PLASTER SUPPORT) 


*F«( 

*| I 


__ »r ggR<gr& 

ph*- 

»w&ff *r 4 -fW *nf t? »k 


i 


p-TP^^^F ? IF [IF! «< rf V v$ 

^mg'prpsr < a <wfpiprWj £*r jr wn? 

fflflfprfof <*] t^^efF 


£jrf 0 <4 Hat*L duf&fmCbi' InipYtfiwU ;— 23EwfK<P-BFffF. 

S.Be^, 4.C£<$^. 51*<S£, 6nC. J.CZti^. fO^BCE. 

U.OvJttfcL AyS. T3.>rSC6e. J+.xCflE. w.ce pW<- rf.St-Citf 
SfT.fc^TW*;- L iy.r.'b. i 8 . 8 nfH.<£-W 1 %- ■ 

V-Ktp j «0£Vt^^E, Jfl.D^rr^. 



NO.6. REVERSE. 


Plats 13. 


'Imm/mmiiiim^ pr^ r <p' [%*-if if] 

* (pr^wr ss$* s* ?r *3r<$r hf* niFtW ^ ^] & 

; r <*? 

[Y«f %**< ^pr[ 


nmmnnmmm rr tmmmmmm 

* W+W^kA 

<^r^f w <^ v e^- *»^MnS 

V**$r«*r 

ft ^ rar £%j: 

j^hisif **t*!k t ^ jk 

* rfW’^-psfeifttjmrw if| 


| <pf < w*T f*" 

,g=Ej- <$T FFttFEBF^g HKjfel l 

TS^SSSSggm 

J^f S^r ^ f v ^V“ 

T%^rr^^ «-hso 


#r ^ 

%«r<® / 

%* <m| 

(PLASTER f § 

SUPPORT} # 


«ri 
r I 


f.nB} {t.y$*mxlyyfcftmx, m& ■ 6 wwvB. 2 ,B 
SjEfiDJE^T 4*,T;BI1E . 5.3Cnwwe«tctt ttotj €t*t&-t&ki$r 

6.Emrm^ J vmyf. p.ut 
5 .Ei*k^,^rrBD. KXr.E, rt. BfcAH.flWDj 

£^. 13.7&r- #.53W 84-T>(r:K) >Ws 

£ r 8&1& CnjS&tts tkt jW>u*4aL»^»- ^jr|^fr»f <ppi efr. 
a«6Usu$>r»4toi6 yE. If.BwfW-tSB 
**•. t6 2>^f. rr. r. ^f*nj»jUUl tvstNoA } ttAS 
W4f. 15. v:Z>. T^.Dfg:. mXSjf^.shjc^ 
tjn,'nM, r B$drl^ffiv$f« Xi.r/Vd.4*.35.Z»B«$. 
*kBff**\ 



NO. 6. REV.CCONT.) 


Plate 14. 


(PIASTER SUPPORT) 


Uf «f <P *HK1 

*^rr mtp= *$* wt- «n= #n 


*$e wt- «n=w ; 
^ <wn p r«F-wrr if m v 


w % 5 sr »pr 

nsr wf Pm— 

*p *r <*■ 

'p$$t <p 


<P Tr- AT 


ff *R?f LV ^ fc&K] no 

►— » 3 £ [ *p w nri. 

4 — *< Miff 

<F~ Arff IF 

^rr [«^ ffn*= itj 

H& <ff= Pm- [«n^ Tf] «* 

mg- ^ r <r«4F c «p *-€] 


?*= ^ w js^ pr 

7- 4ff 


*=-«P-WF 


pr <i 

**rf 


iff «J 

%*« 



tp rp pr 


|X^TTF^ t 

Wm*<+*&& 

mflL f ^ 4 - ^ 
wm <rad 


»T TF tp B if —-^T 


IF T 

wp |*m—■ 
wf IFm— 


np Pm—■ 


' •mtmmm i 

^ <^r »R t $f 
— pm — %T Inff 


Wmwmww'm 

c iurt^r *®nl 


J?P *f ^ *<r- 

ff?rr p- bf tf eZ&. 


^0miimmiifimiiiiiwii/imk 





Plate,®. 


NO. 7- OBYERSE. 



* v# Iw-^nfffF 4 


fp *-4 

* 8p;^^r4A*r MfTF”*?! » 


■p& wfhf fa # 1 v *«B 

-u$ &mm*immi#f < <$<$1 


~v—p& Mg m 
9 WfK<J= RF IIF=M£ 


w*<^ tfFI 

If ** ~. 1* <r a 


p^isr fftfcwtm 

mms£ 

*I*#*W^ w JfpV^TE’ 

1 —t^F<s^ *r , ^Mr*i 


K t.iQfatb'j 4i*jt-£[5yt*ktcb $ ctfey ponJthet^l.ef&^ZZ} ^$°®fy Ctfeol arf C^ *j fwitt»^4*fi> 

of etf-TS-j K8$f$r # % 3-I^ cifeot <u)D ; « jwS* Jufl.<rf &.$-ZJj «*u$ &f-tl <£tet<to £, * 
<f4L<f-U. 2.A^^. 3A^- 4.CAck. JF.itBCjAlK 6 .*C£. 7. nC.&rAjM& 
tt.*:C£.jAllf. tt.ApHF- is.nAEjOD^IPflTw^f' ^^***2* 

<. ry.r^DE. r. cgjA 0 . 17 .*ADEU fE^CEjAfrDjr^i-^FlfcStF^F 
«k$£w. ^cDE^^t^r^. w.t.ace 3 
&S 3 fM 6 ‘ **.rA«>£. tt.r:A£j7>rp-% 23.-&wz>^ jVv~* UmiC^ju 4vAD£.*f.A£ 

A^AlM^. l^r.AE. Zl*DE. iS.r.EjADrf^®W 

2 .^.t:E. So.iuat^^ti^frjLftA p 4A femes<*>«£/ £tWe. *w ADEjA^^j £fe&/ fttfcfryt, ttffffL 75 

*ko£ & 20 - 2 A.. rea>£*i*. **o l£^ £&£*✓;- «*d.tM’Jto If wKf 0 ) 

a ** a.to-a.5 fc^w- «.«£**«& crjjr|piF $rVj*'f-t.#r «f 

3 i.A^f.. si.xEjDS^f. 3 J.r;'D. 



Plate 16, 


N0.7. OBY.CCONT.) 


«1 


so 


<r^ m ib»~ <r^r &**- 

if] 

Wf k«p ^ 

<r^gfwf W- <p l<yf <&' W* & 

[«A ►# ^pr>^r w 

^ #pt^lW ^ pf %*. 

' y . * i u/mt/f(jtw}/rfM/fjtt/f///ff///fl 

^Tt^tFK ^ ^ik^l 
wf K <*P Pp RF 5 <^ 3 v^lifr-pSfeff HWtfflf 


% 


30 


^= <p <$pf[w*TT»~<&£ 
^=&<p: pr vtV- EiiFBF^g 


[ jr fln*pg' 


NO.7. REVERSE. 


SSI 


40 


^****"^*=4 





w*E^==Eg£= 
T^^pr ^Tr-< 


t.it£. 1. Al>**f.^p£?\ 3.A^ . 4. n Aj>. 5t v-.AjB^f. 6. t; jaxtuUeL t*sxtNo A tt.44- 
W45* S.rrAj'D&F. ?.r.A - ».)U>iir|pVus fc*©&U/* t^-D. Tf.*: A3l?W 

«ir. it.yzNoAjCSff. ts.A**#*^. K.Af. IS-.A^. t*.A<. 



Plate r7. 


NO. 7. REY. (CONI) 


45 


55 


n 


m 







% 


tyflfMi 


vm /M 


r* " v r = HI - Vfr 


Wt^ 

<J^^r ^TFETTlI 

^r rF^r ^ 


v *%$ r 



FF= V WT «, 

T 4 

*TSF= Tfff 
FfF£TK*K 

££E= <S3rtfFF 

i^^ri 



ftp^nn*^ *£ wr <p=r 


6 o 


f.-rKfw/J. 



Plate 18- 



n ST 1: 


y%$ ^wMRJSBFtlf *T t-WVF 





<$P4"Sm <& r g 


& mmr-wx^ srs#] 


W 0 










MX9. OBVERSE. 


Plate 19. 




[>f ^ ^ wr ^ 

Ivffi n^C. $tT ^V- *rf 

<^r 4 "- <<v- ^ wrrr^f 

»rmw jr*R tfiFWiWJ 

to>*k rf T*pr*mi>pp*w*& 

M,g= sriF*K sm*F3r sr ^ ^ TTf «^c] 

tBff *T ^ M-2 


/sr 


»# t^r [<r *- «*fr otf p**- ef btj 

Wf <pgr ^ p- t^wiiiff# 

pr ^ *r m— e n* *r **$n 
*ff *r f *r j 

^ Wr mr «^r 6 c£- *^5 

$r<q5-*£ff ^ ^nr 5 ^‘i 

wR*$E#rr< *#>*? ff v^r pr*v-& 

*F ^ rf^T it *■< £- ^ i^&i 

nf ~^f ft *■< v — wft 

wf^ ij- t^r^ 1 ^-^r^pK^frTFf’^ 

^T^TTf *< *rrr< Frwrww* 
ef *if rtf^wn^priF^^n*^ sr*£nv#i 
^ ^-wn^' 'W ^ 3pr trfl 
r«^f J ^ to * 3 K mr <p E p 4 l 

E^A^^fTTO TF^-pir^prprs^Ep^ 

^KTrtsff t^f wnrtF 

£*rtifc«~ T V»*c p$ir$<v-[^‘ 
w!irw- %s- iw— -%rw>Tt^r ^rpi^j 


*eet 3 ir ffwnggrp~ 


v^miiiiminim/imA 


1 if# l t9 3.$^«**jyw«6*p,a#*2ieac£^.»v«7ce 2««t.>w.B. 4.n Ate**; SuWf sM^-urf^n,^ ■£*** *», 

16 .BAK. *jr.Bt 3 F. i^.Bt^iltt^..y.B*«c ■ 


NO. 9, REVERSE, 


Plate 20. 




ftm, ^ t 

EM p?fT *< 

m ^ <M<?f Tf fcSSTM 

M? ^v- 

^te^sNSl! 

IBS^-I^ vEP- *■ r ^fTPQ 

Wif ^r^r tf n &tf jas? lp ^i 

PftwHP- < ^ r^ ^3 


4 cm 


[«^r^ MW HF ITDMfr- ^f<p] 

W///M mh* - in*'fttm] 

frnn^s£<<FWM mt wfa< m «ki 

§«*k ^ i<&= < mtu] 


i 


%^////mM//JfMfM l!i 



m r?%r*Rmi 


&K S 3 MW 


wr ^p-^fi 

*- ^FW 

P*»~ 

■^TSF^wKI 

*rrF*R| 




35 




t#5 


5 ? 


35 


f. ** A. 3 lA 5. A IBM*-. 4-. SLe* Cn4s of {t 34 -53 "^a-ch^ 

CtM^y^faMd, frmc> A. 5. A C*Me%4s £$sj r . 6- A JeT. 
7 . A >fevf . 







NO.IO.OBYERSE. 


Plate 2(. 






Plate 22 





Plate 23. 


NO.If.OBYERSE. 


?hfk^ if 

LWI^T $ IF ifr— rfl^ <$$=*£-fcfTfF^ 

W]^~HnN < *& 

r^rin^r iF^pf ^^rrfF ppf ^ 

rj&i ^ *tjpf ^-*nr m? p^nm 
fef <Frf* ^^yifs^r j& &x*iw 

wf ^4^ ^—ati£ 
^ nr *< 

[ift^r & 5r w «w£- 4< 

rtr «r ^ 4 mP- 


;ro 




Plate 24. 


N0.tl.0BY.(C0NT4 


M ^ w < m 

iifi^r ^rp'^ TPtF K if tf a 
* Ha? w*r*wpr 
if ^ ^ <r^f ^ 

v-^ ^HH <^<p'^r*pKp' 

r4f^ 

50 


25* 


So 


NO, 11, REVERSE. 


<4 wf Vf ^T HI2. ■ 

^ ^ ^r If lfr-rfv$~- **F$F^—#&5F 

*4 *v-^ ^m: 

^ 7 rfifcvvf'<£% - P&& 

^w^if<Mfr-^fif^ h? if mr 

n^^iShMfr K ^ ^ ^—-#&5F 

if^^f 


t.i&ttMjtm, tflrCt/iWv thttMtiU/. 



Plate , 25 , 


No. 11 . REV.(CONTO 


4o 


wr&ff wf-^ar 


40 




4 S\ 



Kr ^ t4{ w **p 

w*x qrr^gpr ^ wibewt* 


+5 








w/% ^ <mvr&^Wv^ 


W>"?“ 




Plate. 2f 


NO. It. OBVERSE. 




v ** 


**fc^B6K^ K&r<H^< R&K^fTW v **r 

<prr r^^r ^rif^r 


ffr« Hi*-1* 
OTftG^tHT^ r-^T^ V»*fX 3 tKr 7 »W 4 fr 
XYlfMkTVtiWi* T^PTfT ^»r W^^W**^' 
*^ff ^6 8 ?$ffpr p-tftJT rvf^frw- *$F j 

r^f ^F»f {ff v v?iv± 


r . f__ y. . . 


M wf<pgr i<%$: 


^f;&pf tfflfc= V^ff-$^W" *W 


4 *= I* 


Kami, ait/ «iS is <UJ.<fff.S4-i4; KVSJ^,atUa*C i u <bjl.<>f (t.f] , -ty «*« <a -7 4 ;9°j*"®£ 

c*ltdo*T> « cbM.ofBLf-loo <uU KJfto-, c$ui<U£ U J*fi.<$6..ll*-itJ.lJK&>SvJxW 
_ _ J VLa-J J ^ a LL&.vifjz-*3r>mr c a >r^r#rrt$3T 








NO.tt.OBY.CCONT.) 


Plate,27. 


& p if 

TFS<V-a|= FTP" 


* * ^wmmw^ * 

< K W-0W ^ < TF *£Tw*jWB t 

*k » *r<«$r 


rf<F$r wf^ffeh**- 

**r*K *riFippr wc 

*mwsr w m*r Ipr ^^ »■ 

pr^r < *wv k***&rm 


pw*$> «f ffm^ / Vw®«- 

%f <r -1 

3< ^ < ?tfF W~?flFW 

^ 4 ^ 




r _ t>-^ tr- »<»<»' 




Tmm^y lJ/ 


f.Aiwtft' CrxAOdS . 2. T.A, 3 7S»^ffc|E. 



Plate, 28. 


NO. 12.. OBY.CCONT.) 

* m&w ^^wrnrnm^ 
rr r ^ 

^A*A«n* rfjt rr h. 

<pj®=»r ^ *yi 

^-fwr-fflT^rf 

* ttr<Fir^ spv^ «^rri^K^ ^r *j% 
Wr»»R ^*r*r 

W«T 4 < Bffwtf^TF ^^^^H^^lf^MTff(0riF 
parMi=!F ttKA^Kfflf=Tf ^jr^-or f£w«k* WT4< 

K RF tfWWr <*fw*T rFff <P $ 

V * «f<W ^pr <r# *r jt m 
r^tfnr «-*£*£nFlF*TlF 

TFfF^ir ^^^V$fitk- ! <^rr^ f grt^ 

If If ^TTT ^k^kWKWlf < <^<^- 
» < *< \ <r * 

<r^r ^ <r^^r 

^IT MF FT ^ rf- ^MTIF^T IFTF W($- 

1- ft-M.ff oauA if8fthvw 4 (#*.*4 <*v 8. t. 8 Tf$#\ 3, Z.iijf«*WH4 l &>U4 urvC. 4. B £*te/ vhSvM ^Mjf. 
{f.&^^El, 6,£.$q J^ffVwcs X &hM u»u BcvnA C. y. fi . #. 7- t*6ov*toJp>«md.' 

£»v B a**A. fo ^***4 h tw *4 ujuckvttuL P$ 2 [f Ij 

? *P^T ^ > Ca^/»afceH#y Icujt &G S^m.C/ XtajiUa , 10. J*, fabuUs of £.6T B >Cox^o jj-f 

^T|ifi» tlFv*PF K-Wd of 12.80*31.13.8 

fjfT^F I^.O^nACwt-ty C , 



Plate, 29. 


NO.fi. REVERSE. 


<93T4FtfI& n^-v^{ rrf<pf v^ 
r H$T Pfff forr~ f <HF ttR W fc&= 4 p— 


gf w- ft n^r< far- m 

ifif if tf tf —*r 
<frpr ^T M^r* 




U*ff*T AW &K 

?F P^T Je? KRF FFK Fm— Pr~ Fm- 

WIF r^ pJtWA»F "K*” 

<^r^F-prF pr^< ^‘furAm v$rg< rf 
pr^pr w- awk r^| 




-<&m n?m\f 


fmi<+W 9f 

IF $ ^^"FEJttfW] 


i.ti,fj-j<j^ m ,i^- m ,c. j.eMflWt** a.c#%. r.cwRrC 

t arm. j. c^F$r#-$E x a. z.*^ mmm. j.om 

wffff-. to.C^n'fjr^TWrM'. if.c^TrHFWff. ii.&.g^iU^l^rt^frm, 

tl^amcL 8$ t foutjK famifajj l£fa.t& in c tout, cUfjihtrtH^ oUfatcLtai , f5, t\ ^pfjfff. 





Plate., 30 . 


NO.U. REV.CCONT.) 


90 


IftifMlf 
TP*# 


if # pr p m pr «r w— ff] 

nF^ flF ttfJRF [ 1 

tfrr- <^t>^] 

£= rt p «] 

r^sr^r WK ffF 




ppr~ *f<£$r 






*wu; 

^ ww*xw 

wiffliriF '°m=%Mmnfw vxi 

r flBfrw <e—* 


1100 


K r-flp W « AA 




ttt a; ^pr < ft 

^FTmt-, 


wr- 


102 \ 


<#*- ^emc 


m 


r.(J»IF, lH ^<md,f tf.^i»~i<fS/»vm/»K^4^«vfi«MMiO. 5.CSF 

5FW*ifcrWft^F- +.C<.D^.pWi(«Jif#- 

«.D V. *vD. JO.VrD. 



Plate,31 


N0.U.REV.CCONT.) 

w ^ $r 
v# *f < wf 1 tf pr ^ 

% 'WIIII ^ m ^ r ^ rf ^ n ^ TF 

yt$m*r V V 

w >tf WWf wf 5^ <HF [*f ] ^ r^f w 

W ^ ^r if MMimpr if. *- pr^rr 
<wfFF^r^^.rr 

y~&p[<bW'hm<VF^mmlmlmmk m p ? 

v-g&iVn* r^rsr 

^ w ►w^rnrjfpw-g’ pp^rr 

wFUfr^tr J&r^ 4*>* *• *r * 
m _ r <fr3F »»K _ r^ <» 

t r^r p»*rr 

tfltTFfr- fwfA^TF efe. 

'•£<H^taiF*WMr. 2 .^.to 8 jVvms ttM6 lr^^-uxiUky^AA,\^^ WJ< £f ^I^l^c| 
o»4>m ^Igrrt part. 3 -t.e. +.e^C. s.zjf*qt8fif<b-.6x<v.r.&m’ 
Mi ni fcv m- nvt- W- w E., S. E »pST^F*V C.t« Crt««£s:-# »t&<S$= 

^wirier AIM flF*4r. w.o*muUxlz. «.&«*■.«? jwws&dMiWE.ri.Ertfe 
h. t®sgr hwjasttw. 



Plat £,32. 


NO, 13, OBVERSE. 


% 






$js \ 

tgg ^<rr^wK^r Rf-»K 
<$— #TF w~ v r^- ^ 

^Tn^ftF < £T FTO£ 
,&=p*r w^r *r t 
P" jjzr«r*~ v— >w r^r^r vfv- 
y r& *-*r ^ttf 


I. 


A 






% 


f 


*3" 


sffff* r <*r- 
ren^ ^r»^rTv*F jrfflwp^i 


lw*k4»= 



Plate33. 


NO. 73. reverse:. 


wBmgWm^ 
wMMmMk- w Pfr ^m= 

»wJm ^r ^rr^rF 

m ^hf <Hf m*= y n m \ 
rrtfjfc=*r*mr ?¥fr fpf *mr m\ 

[tfr^^fr ^r if a ?^f / 

F£=rF fhtf *#rr »d&e= y& 

» tr / 

^ <pf m*= ^ *- *r 

t~< ^ (p^F -<3r-F^. 

^ <5- 4^ ir «< rff 


1 

tf! 


f 4 f^?r ^f ^ 
<pr^rf? ng; 

r^-tzar 

























Plate 36. 


no. ia. obverse. 


If r Tf 




v rm pm 

m< i< m b*- 

v-W VT*? t^TT W 




T *f vm ^ & 






tf 


£NTT 


V 

^TT 


H- 


im rf- 


-rfil 

pJrV- 

-HT^ 4 


^ $w 

ppfC *£=== ^ 

- RF <*fT 

ppT v-f T^ F p- pfef 

py <pr r^#J 


K^fiO-V, (C-. 1 — Hr, uA^i-^ $ £*&> oiA, ^ oCtt^Z. tt. l-fd^ K If 31^ *♦* Kn^6^ dCtcL a& S, «4 
«LJbl. tff tt;j ~ IQ . t, it, t q*u£ £ j’o'utMjeti 4/K/ A , ur/Uc^ <t^$o yCu*4 brtuu& 

of % Jzrt£€eC*0*M -ChkJHj Y4ajd,vK*i i- , ****C * 3. r: A » 4.AJjjiGfc 

Jr. 3 iLe c tuj&ets +**«{ 6 ' 6 a*o£ 7 * # iax£. •*«€. 6 **£^ Ut, A - 6 . A |MIT 

*4f . 7- t<ruj»lc£& Oamt to, it amdi It, £*&k. ^*V»»o »*A Uv A <m*<C B. 

S. A $E Hff. 



Plate 37. 


NO. 18. REVERSE. 


r*T V WT Tf -M- 

V <*^5A 1 
*Aff AfflW- 

»TO - 


3 


rtffW-TRF^J 

riw *r fa r i 

rf^JT HTX H2* 
f FTTf Tvw— !»*- 




r - 

- F»f ^ HTT* 

f EFSF F* 

par 

?— rgr ^ 

- v»^r ip b# 


4r»f 




m* ^ ^tr #r *v- < w *-< w 


TT 


20 


f// to&/M/ 


i.yzA. 1. B”t«U*iv*«wOs?^ . 3 .t:8;A^ 4- .t&J* o^ui.}6 JVw^rKA Iv^tsUuR. 

sr. A\W- ^ 8 p^(. 7 :AITfJ^r. <}. Offaut.rtAcuxx** & <*~ <** 

of,uJ>ld3aJttsj Qtiruxff 3 taSutd <&wt&bin<£ ' ’ ^E^f* ^ *“^T" 

r^^rji^flfe—V ntfji. <vvuj6 c nr^ ^jidshi . »* 

dconAje^s ov^a- o^w. ; B v^ot« :— • 



Plate 36. 


NO. 19. OBVERSE. 


ft 

’ 4 


b 


2o 






Tf 


*% 

4 


W- 




% 




/ 






- 

*¥ tf W WT < ^rtK *£ *£ 

i^=RF ^ *(-**& wrr^ ^tfmwqr 

fF 

r»»~~f^nr w-^r h*~ uf- a#t& fw- 

m*-- ott ^ ^ ^ tf 

* FF 2STTF 

^T RF M 1 

n*f & m 


<rpr *% FTrr^^nir^j^m^iffr m 
^ tf A^F ^ Vtfrrf w tf <¥£=- 
K *£== ^ FffF H^f 

h-k pr v ©■ %— rr tf 



ttr 


20 


/.^stW^.^I^.. Z.^fy^tw%, av4As a,txs wcL&VLhJZs'. 








Plat 6 40. 


NO. to. OBYERSE. 


^ 1 


& 





«% 


x 


U*FW#r-HTW= pr i^ //w% 

L^r if l?=- 


NO. to. REVERSE. 


70 


t 




** AvfF Hpr ^<v- #Tfc= i<Sr-R pr 
^ ^ IT WF HT ^ *= 
V £g£ FTF 

?^ir t*$$r <p<r ^rrr h= 
g ®r s# 

prm= 

&*F] ArfF £*>Pfr ir 

^ p*r mrp= 

^V-E^Arf- 


2P 


1 


.M^rr ?^r 




tf w£ 
#r- ft n 


* 














tw ^ *v- 
[<r jv# *w if & \ 

I^A^f *W XT' 

# Y# >& Tt w 
V&$f m= 4— HF% 
£3: p* Xv- ffl 

mv^$x ^ ef &**■ ^ 

"F&rfF ^ Xr 

*# & *= ^r ^ 

■p^rvr «n**£ #r/ 


4 V * 3 ’ 


S. vr f.5T. ‘t.OJrmt <J 6^&s iw nufv^j JW>k/ H& Miinnj af &t-Obnxfts. 




PLATE43 


NO.Zf. reverse:. 





<f m 

^4 W— 
Bf Tr 


60 




4 


*mr * unr ^ r**— v *r if 

KR; y~ rir ^ 

THmmr prfnr^r 


UF if] ^ w v ^ tf v^—i 

ter#jto^&F^r ir*=* 

Jfj®f* J*= * 

^ far *f *r *^r i*> 

nr* 




W3^fr ft g mr-gnr p— ^ 


fflp* *^fa&r#rMTwT I 



NO.H.REV.CCONT.) 



m fh rwf a vfftzto. 










Plate45. 


NO.EJ. OBVERSE. 

Jjrf 'rfT^ &4TF *r- wf ^ 

< i **= *<rpx ^ nr^^r 

vpfr^fr^r^ i^np*-* [F^mr^^Fp' 

*% m' m ^ rr ^ <p 

s *-$f wfefesf Rrf- vt < ^fT H3& ^T ■C s 

*rm=m ^$THm<»K 

v*f 0T «^TT4F ^?Tf Wflmr-^ «< 

r-^fffF5w-^p^^ »FffIF 
^tfTT ^r- wf <p$T #TT «^K 

■ rp^rffp' vH"*ff 

prp^* ^ ^ 4 

V ^r ^ mr w* i »— **$r ^ s 
* $r <5— p^r [ r <Hf ^K r ] __ m ^ » 
rvK ^ <* « f f r p *V-< Hp-^F HFC 

s p^t ff k [W- ^ *i ^ 

?r^ [ V # ^ 7 i p—H3£ 

wf fflwr ppfrkrf^^^*<^ <p ^ 

»| ^ y^r k v&i^w/mMMmA ft mfe® *> 

r.lasW-.a^Uc^ «4 A, * «WWl/ rf«.f-9j K4RS3., a,« <<^!.<rf a. 7 - 24 ; -*U. 

KSfetjCttUasC, UeU+t.ojtLH-fO. t. AfflT^. 5 -« 4fj 4. *»u4 «>*“•• "“•' 

WwB. 5-.*B. 6.a^F. f. Mi^KiW^fiwW. S.OxMUlyB. 

S.tlJ'f amd 18 fa*"*' «*£/ ^ 8. 





Plate 47. 

NO. VL. REVERSE. 



fh? IT $f\ 

'ptT £X<^ 

rpr yp if p$( 

v- jr tfrr*$r< 




if mw 
r <w= 

*^f- 



% 




I tF 


(BROKEN SURFACE} 


*-<T lr- nf m tfli 


% 


ppR 


Sir * <^r^ 

'tm fft v$x 

^ nf ^ Mr 


»« 


«fr. 


r? 

/^ 

/ ^ 

*** 

imvtK r# 
^«=AT t^TC 


►pf- fjjrf" P^E ppF p - ^ *MT - 

s<»^ ^r-<j=i p— pta<?p w-<ff 
rTK ^ rrrr ?f ^r ^ ^rr t^r mtf 
^r^rf ^ w rr <^^r mr^ 


■^*mr^^*fcrBK»R‘i@rprrn* 


p^r ^rw^p^r r twr tw-3- 


So 


SS 


60 


Hr 


rptfiptggi»~ f 3 ^ e$e 




jwf & i^nr rr v 


7® 


mr^rr ppfasftf^.] 

f. Tb&t&itat PwruC . 







NO. £3. 


Plate 45 



l.&i-of NO.IA-j ttrtfNo.ZS <W. {„5afNo.Z6 sk^dLoiZ ojcJl *e rtsbwi 6 muLi- rffyTvtfyTf? 

1.£i ef NO.Z$ shrtxici jyrdrMf U,*4 6.5 <fW.Z6 . 



PUATfc 48 


^ ^ r~ Vaw ^ ^ i 

r->m %f \n*-wmmMw $ mi 

^fnfCnf«( r-nf tff[$TT 'flCJ 

4 fcar$*f$nr Wf^ T ^ 

10 + $cV- ►ff^ [^ Iff »*T JSr iff Fffn w 

'r pr tf t ^ *$r ] 

V-^rrf < trf <W [ r^- <£* tfl 

H^nn* <* p w £**< ^ < *— fflir ^3 

\fy #*- <" vff # nut ^ep 3 

ts r-B^X ^T V ►* ^*ff] * 

p^ir tf rfVar i*fff c «< *r &>f *^WM 

Tf ^nr 

v~p^ rfn;<^#^fr l m **ffr ^ ^MiMA 
<& « <f-rf->rPRF F3T <f— r *—-^mmMm 
30 r ^f' ^Tff pt^T ""pp’ T y-^^T 10 
[W- r£&PF Hr" TfF v ^ t ^j^m^^mll^Bj^^m 

[n^< 

[gur & h^t ibt ^^MmmmmK ym^w 

» for »ty ErV ,gi»*!SgP— TF^jf g] * 

«*- « -t-4>7/, n-io^U.xi-V 3 ' 

uuua, sai4^^.6A^Jb^^. ?. ?*, tn Atwu riff r*^ *f *£58># *ff>^ 

* WW^ kf iUi^n >Vnt,«*S,W'rnB. J.6I 

* AWfW. tf.A^^^B^^- MWff-»*A^- H-.Xt.ir 

yir.Ar^pT 17 -A^ijHg^ it.**** «f 4 feM^ «WicAw r-e^«-^. if. &c k*d «f A c*n£M**> 

u>i4k, *L 



NO. *9. 


wmr/m/mmmmm « ^ 






I.Or HTT- t.&*< eafe^--fcne. sbnJLd. fxaiMtf. [J$»f V< 

%= ftr wB< tmi 



Plate 51. 


NO. 30. OBVERSE. 


w% 

m-y^ IB 

gppr ?mr*[ 





*-*T VVf< ^ ^PF 

*MfK*r<Tr--ptfr IF wK TF FfSL *tK 

v^r m w ^-m=^ 

Jr^ wk * 5 ?r ^ 

*W &sM <^A ^n^*BFKtfr>&c ■$* 
pP pSlTT <*£= ^FTF<^^r^ V *ttT ^ 

"fur pr ^ <p pr v *fr- 

v^t -<p ^p= 

IF<£P $T Fffl^rF Ffflf <p ^r v 

fF *-?r tfFF far- fa"- 



/S’ 



p 


N0.3O.REVERSE. 


?r 


10 




p*r r 

if-ff *w 

^arr*^ vt 

nffiFplrfr ntf «f rt mbp <jr 
*fir <Rf= *v- jr airtsiir^ffl' 

Sfpw^pw ff tf nifr tgsf r «®W8B 

r-W FT ff]i'^T^-«||^'lV>fl 

$F ptF w *r nr^ 

wh 

*F 


30 


Jtf *F *H wT ¥tr 


*3nr n^- 



fflir»-rnfArw»y 


mu 


|.^iM. litAfa/tt/.S. S.r.Jfc.n/.*®. 


l»»i 







Plate 53 


NO. 31. 



* 

9-vk~* 

ft K^MJHZ ^vuwunt/DM ^ tfF 

^-<jpf4-rvf J&M w IF <fF IWff 

rfifc p# jHTT IT <rf ^ rmr- *< T4 

WWSSflsAT v^T ptfTTAir^A ^TT < *fl&p 3 r-*T HMHff 

wiiimwiitiiiiumiiifm^^. <r 


N0.31. 


tf 

~<£gOTflregHrr*< 



S- 


» 





< »prr£- 
<&l Xfr 



MS 


vrf «&m *fns ^jr wk flp r tr w<i 

*vftfF <FF EP**Hl 
|^K tf «pT tf **f tf W //////////4 

yiiimxb »~< I^~ 3* l^m— < IF pp[ M*rrw 


r 






N0.33. OBVERSE. 


Plate 5*. 


vttn* k srrp 


m t^r *< «< # kb: * 3 r 


impair 

W ^^<pr 4 ^ ^ <**r fr*—^ 

iv *mi tf ^>tk ^ «*< iti 

*‘rt <w=^ hk i *- wnr <pi 
[ *4* vft'fcw&gfi &§x *r w t^r^-^R 
Lt-J Z pTR:^ trf' i< 

KtT* / U.7ti-?l l krkUk3c^**A J *dup.cfa.f}-Z9. LA»ff f^T.&xA. ^-Atee^MMfi 

H r ^e&.^ifl y w/^f.ttW4^]»<pBgr TF|W«ifc*n4«fe. 

<.£ftc4r *f **■ C+uflebs Z3*m£ZAj tS'±*J.2& ftfamA a**> <vZu, (ti. 6Ufo.Mi£t 4u**^-ytuuUs{$)/*' 

A',-K..*s-l?r-A, T- A *^3hF. s. A *«*jt **$€*& Arr^. 4y A. 








N0.33. REVERSE. 


Plate 55. 


[H*tr V F^Tfl 

farr ^]»flTrrwF ^ v 

30 [<£= ^5fl pir ££= [ v ^ l w-f$5$3o 

Wf/i»y//««fp^ $r imfffflM///mwff/mw/f/i. 

miiwim/mm r r a»+- n^ri 
[Tf rtf] tfff W-TF^Tf^R <r V PI «^r {£ [htK] 
»W <r^gr i^ 8 \&r **— < <rr-tf ^ 
[«-<^Ffrrr ^g’^fiK^R 

c»tf pet p— ip$m _ *-< -&rr ^d 1 

c^r ^r & gmtymrff ^ 

m<n 



»L< FffFP^-^P' 

Wtf^TflF «F PtfT TF wf( F|= <*=*,*«rflF*R 

rmm bkmasftf ^ »-mi^ ^ fuk j; **r 

r^SR *• 

* wwmm&x y v p*-rtf<w rf< * 

[wTflfn!F**f *»*r «f^wr ^mFrtnrflr< wn^paj; 

tFffif pWT -£T ^— jg| 

r.£«ck«f (&t'C«KjU«& ZgaW Z$,35Ar^S+jVvm* m&,tinV <vtik, (foigh,- W.<j£)i n.A; ^tXg-3^V.A 

lAnar^r*®.s-sitcwAyttu&s-^i^fl-jBr »?s - v»T-H : prr»»"-»sa'r»t>^- 
-<*»r>^.4.AT<. 6.-r-^<M-T.tL^ 

-3[f*vw<.ltt.C*.A. «.A<4(. >.Ar-. <o.A n*t*tt *jr *jf- n*p£<- tr.A^- 




















NOJ56. 


Plate 57 




fJCJW&k, {Lj'-rr,**A/ * dMJL *4 Bj KS8tSj it 3-fl, <XJUa>1) j amt Ehu$&€UJ£,«&C 

Oj&£ arte. /***4y dvfiuaJtksof £Lj~13* tTU&L ti 

A. t.r.AV.y.rAB. 8x8;A^.9.'*ABE.»-AS?f.1T.'*B;A . lljt BjA^f. is.r^ 

DflBWW^ "^'-A iiWts Lrusckis <. T5-AD i6.T.ADE..T7.r.8;A6tl>)^^^f 

t*.r.BDE; .* 9 . D *5WW- Xo.ME;Sf*— • 










Plate, 59 


N0.40. 



[ rr ^]rgr^ff p'r-T^rtr $#] 


[Tr-f p'r-T^Lr 3 
WT-<$ W»£-< ^TT 


wimmimm r «ta sf *&. 



Plate,60 


NO.42.. OBVERSE. 




Plate, 61. 


NO M. 


/ wMutMmfMmmmiwwiw mtfw wwMm 

* < £HFffpT< 

m if t# j&r n 

:*%ar j p*-*k $= <^r 

^imnuiiumii/HWi»vifwiiiii/Miiiitmitii/ii/iil/l$ffllllllllllllMii ’^T~ $JT pT 

ik ^rr ^ «t- tk 





hf htt i 


p- m=HFRf^<Tf^^ 


u 


] 


sf w# 


y> 


^ ^ rt^ 4 *V~ ^ J|T ^T 

^ ^ pgr *v- £t4f rR ^^r^mrp 
pP<p mhr if <p*r tost ^ tfnp 
w<^ 

mr^^- wrrl^r^r 

vpx 

^ X ^ ^ ^ 

f rr tt *ra; 

•If*- £"■ -Iff— 


«r 


2 *> 


% 


Nu 

4 <*«flt< 5 ‘, J jra*cj($ f®V***£ «*6 ^me, in A. 3 . A • 



Plate, 62. 


N0.+7 






Plate 63. 


N0.+8. REVERSE. 


a*r 


r^r pr ^ gfr^nrH - p-& 

IJ^F ^ »^F ^ i 

<ff 

ffff wqr fTTTT t^f fv-Pff 

^rff r*r*f AtL 

N0.4P.OBYERSE. 

|#IS= rrf?s 

N0.49. REVERSE.. 

p HP- 

|r it >^K 



ft ** <pr 
w ^ 

farr eft *r 

|F IT n-K 

fmr $r ^ 

"■ 1 ^T rvK 

/ ^ rrf ^ 


Jm-t— < K&5T 

^ H3F W <h 

% R# F*"" 

t-m- 

| ^ PIT 

V 

l#rm w wk 


jo |p?t?f= <f~ ^ 

t- 

# f FK^T#W 

§#rrp^ 

%Rwrg| 

// &mfftf//w//r 

tevxrfefpfc* 

|Hfr $r *v- 


I & 

i 
k 




^/////////////////////////^ 




2o 


w//////r///////////^^^ 



Plate 64. 


NO.SO.OBVERSE. 


#|grHT^wfr*n| 

- 3 - - -- -. 




L^< rtr m 
£r-rrf tfP 

mm mr 

)wv?— ^5—ffm— Jr 

Lt 



*r 


™r/m/// /f/ 


'"''"m/M, 


'//M* 


^ ^ 

rrfistfF^ p- »rf <( *$4 

^ par 

<T^ MT £T nf r™*- p~ 

ftF «(rf TFTF **r 

rf i^r jr ^fr r ^ ?f tf ^ »f i, 
’utr*^ mf »r px ^ 

^<15-prrF<8= ^F«( ^ p—^ V ^ 
r— -^-ptr ^sTjPw— <F?rtTfr I5w— <FpT pf-AFt75?F»”~ ** 

v r- pmr y&- ^ ^ ^ «^rf 

*& nK A##7h 

«*fr pm*= ^p 

« ^ ^ t^ASP <1- <5P pi 

3<V- ^ fy- £pff tfr- s^TT W A *3T» 

s HT^A»fr4K <15- vk- W T 
wf £HHF <Mf p rfcpf FF TF «rF *— VT# ^ 
nF*F«5®af na^ h^tT p- 



lli-IJS^oOj U.I-IOjurkUklcUi, mK^tUjii.t^tl.1.10) ICllj3q r ,&.l-f,ci(*J.**&j**A^l.*ftt.iD-3J. 

4.rA. 3.a.s.4lU«U.«tWfTnrvA. +. An^tfif. Jr. Ar >P$r»frpf T^f.AA^jf 
E^Ri^r:. f ?«. t.v A ye<uU : tfpfcf 0 ®. &.tLb><~vtil ^-3- J. *»v 

<.m 8 vw^-_ jfnMs*5 r «i ■»• b ntfBprj. 



Plate,6S. 


N0.50.REVERSE. 






Plate 66- 



V— Mrf <^f 

r < 9 - fpK s?pr 

;®Tr-^r £gr c— v rrr ^ spr >ttf 

W 




I tm b»- r nf &iwi tf«&* 

t.W« of lksA& ckanactcM v&matrv* 






Plate,67. 


N0.55. OBVERSE. 


/""V 


01 k n \^ /m 

M^mfTTF t*F*T « ^F Tf ff <& £Ti 

* r-n? wygrt - &=&'* 

►*f *r u^cf »*< 

fpt jf—n>^r pr *-^ ^r 

^|grn^ ^F=^<fp^^Tr<^rFnKv(ff^; 

>m. wffi^w<v- 

® A«^T< <^-^w—iM^FF^TRS' * 

pe'<^ r ^ #= par i=^ tfff^p'' ^ 

fttf <* ^ m? ^ «*r pr 

pr^r^^xr^ <^rr^^F < m ^ ►**: 

ETFfF<srr^ v ^ p 


1 WVvtt^flvwuftm. ghaa&I HTS^. 



mF rPftffffJ ^ ^ £ 

tf r*r *tf WTP *r 4- p|x P' 

rr k ft w v ^ ?f -C raJ- 

wf *r ^vrrK«f< v •*- ffl 

v—'Wipr Vr-**#*# ^ ^ r 

as ^r p&r h»- iwiiT r^- <r^r pw-rf-Awr^T^ 
v y „— ^rr ^— ^<35^ H 3 ? fF 

£iffr httt v- *%&*- ^T <^r r-^^j 
^ ^ Mac «^r 

\m fHTTF- Hr^tfur 

^I. _ ._ 






Plate, 69. 


N0.S4-. 


i r prj pprE<!w:^$i 

eh im- <hpmr m- *^pr r^ [^a*pw 

t^n >— mrr»*< < [*n* tpi 

\//j/////mm^m ^ff wir h? iigr pr 
tpr «#]«&-*r —r^f ^r 

mu m^w 


\ffmmwMmff/mm/fmjm/#m 



w/mM/mw/w/mr 


NCX55 


N0.5d, 



rtJBTWfcp W 

Vv-v^l 
jpm— <Jrt^jTT 

Wr- MWKW’iB*' . 



vfl$ 

tmt^t r r 

nf [>*w wf ^T ^ Wf IP 

fr^f &F p-v?°F ^ ^ T 9'V^TJ 

b-<Wp 

[f'^fflin Wir ^ <■#*#■ IT! 


f „asxstckmp 4sMJ50j'titjf4f : . Z*X£.8-11 'i.tAft. Tr%fart4&\M.fvw*J^ 



Plate,70. 

NO.iTZ OBVERSE. 

1 ^ 0rr fk wr *ra: i 

" rf ^ v Trf 

^ «*«< v 

i?m- <Hprrr [£**- <i^r fw ^ astom 
{ flrr ^ < •£ *# wi 


10 


rPr^T ^ Tf 

■v& Pn 
^ ^%r <jir w 
if tf ^ *£ pr 
vm ?r *^r ^ 

►ny ^ $4= 

F»f r^rr w< pw 

tK <p ^ ^ 

«i^nr-^ 

4^ 


■fjf////^ 


*P 


N0.5£REVERSE. 


/ 



7 


If HU 


N0-5-8.0SYER5E. 


^ / 




itlli ,J 


3' ,r 


|r- HX# 

| ^r *- 

^=^rrr 


;mr 


% 


jar pr 

% 



NO.58 REVERSE. 


jrAfOW*** 


^ «^T 

ff= «/ 

H'f 


^<< $r X wtk «iw^75 

^["|5—|pw—-^ff— 

j^rrer *9@e rrtr 

|p" t rTW : 




T.r.Ab^C.^. l.r.J1bf } C.6l. 


Plate 71. 


N0.5S. 



wpr h*-<wmfr» - 

[V r- mi fh rif < & 

\iwtMwtwmmiifyj v 

! 


i«r 

►*< e ^ wi 


JNp^TT IIP 
*f ^ 


-t 


^Uimmwtmm//m////rr 




fF^ir 


20 




^ wK 


P3^“ 


VIIIMHw 


20 



Plate 72, 


N0.60. OBVERSE. 

WPf- yrfm: 


*ET ^ ^ ^*¥■ ggr^j 
* W wF«|g'( ! ^— $ 

W|flJ m 

i^r w pa « ^ *—< 











dwmwwim 


HP", 




0 


crrrix 




% 


ftfmmminwwm 




Mi *t-% wm m ft »*k ppet wtfd 
i^rjw <£5r tf 3 ^$fF pr n*r r^r «H| 

^r^| 
r<pgr ^ ^ pr*^rpff ppm| 

[^3^ ^r k w ^ 5 < rr ^WJ 

IV ^] rr^ *r?^ *r<W ^-hwr *r wr^<$ ^ 
tffHT p& ^ ^ *r ^ itawwr 

L^lp^T n?h*-$r- fr»- 

,^cff h£- t^Twni= ^ 

^ri 



tyfimiimimim 



to 


%v& m #? ^WfTTF- 


\ 



JSO 


«*• t T v ^ K fi 

A 2. A ?SQe . S’CUfoA' 9ff Avtad* 3K.tr 

fjvrn. <*uTe^* <kA. »• A*P 

t;aM 'g»>»--<& ; t3T!ritw»-<WH'^w—&3^jfetOTrfo»*~It£V y-lfnrpffi~ 

<5 *< mp ffi. 



Plate 74 . 


NOiZ.OBVERSE. 






Pi.ate.7E 


N0.62.. REVERSE. 


fr#m TF% 



wr r 


r rf 


1, 




mnrliwwiwi//itill 


30 







«sr< 

w iranw**- 


<r 






m m 


[mm- r^A w ff 

[^rrfK^A -fjgr **& 


mmmm 




w* % 


5S 


im*Wft** m% ipnr^^r»r<|» 

ff pr ^ vft^! 
i^ - $|r |f tf vpr ^ ^ ^ff ! 

[fFrf 


40 


4o 


] rrF — v^r JO^ i 

M ^r<^<Fpr^r< 

M &.<Fpr *$rtf ft 

[t^ P~4< ] V— ^ p|^T VT~ 



Plate 76 


additions and corrections. 


PU2Ju 1j Ab.lj £.4*3: afte*. »*«*& — PUtfc.3 / /Vb.r, €a fz C read* %sm 

w///WVW#WM p^c 4ur LkU.i.n : frt 5^ C>cai6«^rt^e. 

PW£4 ; Xo.^ £.fi; 

Tr- Jka. FWtt.ti^ Ha^-t^dz fax, ^pr< A rca*U ^fT- - " Ha?fc. 14? # Ato-12^ 

: CtW* 5Lc. of A&.zj^ttr — rs 

(-Sec Pla^u 4-iJ, iMMjeaAtcL Ifeu adAjtfZaruxJL fr<x.<fTn.&*x2' K66lZ > Wwui a4 



5Ce- teodref Ab. it, (-See T?a2b 4-2)^ wm cued fifet. <*4JJJ&rj(dL 

jYcu^rtcbrCt K& 5 & 8 j iMun^ <xA> £M*ur*l-~- 



TloX*+i>&, Mo.i>Oj Re^e^e^rwiel: SSffrsfi Cte. Stqn.$g9¥- 

$)urcd£jcL &£■ Wi^eA-t&tfL. 



Messrs. LUZAC & Co.’s 

publications Concerning “ TBvstcrn 
(Includ. Books on the Old Testament). 


Publishers to the India Office, the Asiatic Society of Bengal , 
the University of Chicago, etc. 


ASSAB’INIYYA. 

A PHILOSOPHICAL Poem in Arabic by Musa B. Tub!. Together 
with the Hebrew Version and Commentary styled Batte Han- 
nefes by Solomon B. Immanuel Dapiera. Edited and Translated 
by HARTWIG Hirschfeld. 8vo. pp. 61. 2s. 6 d. net. 


BABYLONIAN (THE) AND ORIENTAL RECORD. 

A MONTHLY Magazine of the Antiquities of the East. Edited 
by W. St. Chad Boscawen and Rev. H. M. Mackenzie. 
Published monthly. Single Numbers, u. 6 d. each. Annual subscrip¬ 
tion, i2.y. 6 d. 


BEZOLD (CH.). 

O RIENTAL DIPLOMACY: being the Transliterated Text of 
the Cuneiform Despatches between the Kings of Egypt and 
Western Asia in the 15th century before Christ, discovered at 
Tell-el-Amarna, and now preserved in the British Museum. With 
full Vocabulary, Grammatical Notes, etc., by CHARLES BEZOLD. 
Post 8vo. Cloth, pp. xliv. 124. i8i. net. 

BIBLIA. 


A MONTHLY MAGAZINE devoted to Biblical Archaeology and 
Oriental Research. Published monthly. Annual subscription, 55. 

BIBLICAL WORLD (THE); 

CONTINUING THE OLD AND NEW TESTAMENT STU- 
v/ DENT. Editor, William R. Harper. Published monthly. 
Annual subscription, 9 s. . ' 

46, Gt. Russell St. W. C., (opposite the British Museum). 




2 


LUZAC & Co.’s Publications Concerning “ Western Asia. 


BIBLIOGRAPHICAL LIST OF BOOKS ON AFRICA 
AND THF EAST. 

P UBLISHED IN ENGLAND. 2 Parts. Part I. Containing the 
Books published between the Meetings of the Eighth Oriental 
Congress at Stockholm, in 1889, and the Ninth Oriental Congress 
in London, in 1892. Part II. Containing the Books published 
between the Meetings of the Ninth Oriental Congress in London, 
in 1892, and the Tenth Oriental Congress at Geneva, in 1894. 
Systematically arranged, with Preface and Author’s Index. By 
C. G. Luzac. i2mo. u. each Part. 


BLACKDEN (M. W.) and FRASER (G. W.) 

C OLLECTION OF HIERATIC GRAFFITI, from the Alabaster 
Quarry of Hat-Nub, situated near Tell-el-Amarna, found 
December 28th, 1891, copied September, 1892. Oblong, pp. xo. 10s. 


BUDGE (E. A. WALLIS). 

O RIENTAL WIT AND WISDOM; or The Laughable Stories 
collected by Bar-Hebraeus. The Syriac Text with an English 
Translation, by E. A. WALLIS Budge, LlTT. D., F. S. A., Keeper 
of the Department of Egyptian and Assyrian Antiquities, British 
Museum. In the Press. 


GLADSTONE (RIGHT HON. W. E.) 

ARCHAIC GREECE AND THE EAST. 8vo. pp. 32. is. 


HARPER (ROBERT FRANCIS). 

A ssyrian and Babylonian letters, belonging to the 

K Collection of the British Museum. By ROBERT Francis 
Harper, of the University of Chicago. Part I. Post 8vo. Cloth, 
pp. xvi., 116. £1 5-r. net. Part II. Post 8vo. Cloth, pp. xvi„ 112. 
£1 5 s. net. 


HEBRAICA, 

A QUARTERLY JOURNAL IN THE INTERESTS OF 
SEMITIC STUDY. Edited by William R. Harper and thje 
Staff of the Semitic Department of the University of Chicago. 
Published quarterly. Annual subsciption, 14$. ■ 

46, Gt. Russell St. W. C.* (opposite the British Museum). 



LUZAO & Co.'s Publications Concerning “ Western Asia/’ 


3 


JASTROWS 

D ICTIONARY OF THE TARGUMIM, the Talmud Bablii and 
Yerushalmi, and the Midrashic Literature. Compiled by M. 
Jastrow, Ph.D. Parts I. to VIII. 4to. pp. 480. 5^. each Part. 
Part VII completes the First Volume. 


KING (LEONARD W.) 

B ABYLONIAN MAGIC AND SORCERY. Being “The Prayers 
of the Lifting of the Hand.” The Cuneiform Texts of a 
Group of Babylonian and Assyrian Incantations and Magical 
Formulae, edited with Transliterations, Translations, and Full 
Vocabulary from Tablets of the Kuyunjik Collection, preserved 
in the British Museum. By Leonard W. King, M. A., Assistant 
in the Department of Egyptian and Assyrian Antiquities, British 
Museum. Roy. 8vo. Cloth. i8r. net. f 

LAND (J. P. N.). 

nPHE PRINCIPLES OF HEBREW GRAMMAR. By J. P. N. 
A Land, Professor of Logic and Metaphysics in the University 
■of Leyden. Translated from the Dutch by Reginald Lane Poole, 
Balliol College, Oxford. Demy 8vo. Cloth, pp. xx. 219. (Published 
,at "js. 6 d.). Reduced price, 5 s. 


LUZAC’S ORIENTAL LIST, 


C ONTAINING NOTES AND NEWS ON, and a Bibliogra¬ 
phical List of, all new Publications on Africa and the East. 
Published Monthly. Annual Subscription, 35-. Vol. I. to VI. are 
to be had (with Index, half-bound) at 5^. each Vol. 


MARGOLIGUTH (D. S.). 

A RABIC PAPYRI OF THE BODLEIAN LIBRARY, reproduced 
by the Callotype Process. With Transcription and Trans¬ 
lation. Text in 4to. pp. 7 ; and 2 Facsimiles in large folio. 55*. 


MARGOLIGUTH (D. S.). 

C HRESTOMATHIA BAIDAWIANA. The Commentary of 
El-Baidawi oh Sura III. Translated and explained for the 
use of Students of Arabic. By D. S. Margoliouth, M.A., Laudian 
Professor of Arabic in the University of Oxford, etc., etc. Post 
■8vo. Cloth, pp. xvi., 216. 12^. net. 

46, Gt. Russell Si W. C.,(opposite the British Museum). 




4 


LUZAC & Co.’s Publications Concerning “Western Asia.” 


MIRKHOND. 

HTHE RAUZAT-US-SAFA; OR, GARDEN OF PURITY. Trans- 
1 lated from the Original Persian by E. Rehatsek. Edited by 
F. F. Arbuthnot. Vols. I to V. iox. each Vol. 

Vols. I. and II. contain: The Histories of Prophets, Kings and Khalifs. 
Vols. III. and IV. contain: The Life of Muhammad, the Apostle of Allah.. 
Vol. V. contains: The Lives of Abii Bakr, O’mar, O’thman, and A’li, 
the four immediate successors of Muhammed the Apostle. 


MUALLAKAT. 

qpHE SEVEN POEMS SUSPENDED IN THE TEMPLE AT 
J- MECCA. Translated from the Arabic. By Capt. F. E. 
Johnson. With an Introduction by Shaikh Taizullabhai. 8vo. 
pp. xxiv., 238. 7x. 6 d. 

RUBEN p> AUL ^ 

/CRITICAL REMARKS UPON SOME PASSAGES OF THE 
OLD TESTAMENT, by Paul Ruben, Ph.D. In the Press. 


SACRED BOOKS OF THE OLD TESTAMENT. 

A CRITICAL EDITION OF THE HEBREW TEXT. Printed 
AA i n Colours, with Notes. Prepared by eminent Biblical Scholars 
of Europe and America. Under the Editorial Direction of Paul 
HAUPT, Professor in the John Hopkins University, Baltimore. 
Edition de luxe, in 120 numbered copies only. Subscription price 
for the complete Work (20 parts), £ 20. Prospectuses sent on 
application. 


SAYCE (A. H.). 


A DDRESS to the Assyrian Section of the Ninth International 
Congress of Orientalists. 8vo. pp. 32. is. 


TIELE (C. P.). 


W ESTERN ASIA, according to the most recent Discoveries. 

Rectorial Address on the occasion of the 318th Anniversary 
of the Leyden University, 8th February, 1893. Translated by 
Elizabeth J. Taylor. Small 8vo. Bound, pp. 36. 2s. 6 d. 


WILDEBOER (G.). 

HTHE ORIGIN OF THE CANON OF THE OLD TESTAMENT, 
J- An Historico-Critical Enquiry. Translated by WlSNER Bacon. 
Edited, with Preface, by PROFESSOR GEORGE F. Moore. Royal 8vo. 
Cloth, pp. xii., 132. 7x. 6 d. ' 

46, Gt. Russell St, W. C., (opposite the British Museum). 

Printed in Holland* 



