-v- 

Valero' 


Valero Benicia Refinery 

March 23, 2019 FGS Stack CO Exceedance Root Cause Analysis 
Report Completion Date: July 12, 2019 

I. OVERVIEW 

On the afternoon of March 23, 2019, Flue Gas Scrubber ("FGS") carbon monoxide ("CO") increased above 

I, 000 ppm ("Incident"). Valero Benicia Refinery ("Valero" or "Refinery") promptly shutdown the Fluid 
Coker; however, this did not resolve the elevated FGS Stack CO. Multiple processing units, including the 
Pipestill Unit, were shut down on March 24, 2019. 

After the Pipestill Unit was shut down, the Refinery conducted inspections to assess the mechanical 
integrity of the equipment. Inspections on the Fluid Coker Unit revealed no mechanical damage of 
concern, but inspections on the Atmospheric Pipestill Furnace ("F-105") identified furnace tube bulging 
and leaks. Material failure analysis testing conducted by an external expert identified high temperature 
creep as the cause of the F-105 tube damage. 

Valero promptly convened an Investigation Team to identify the cause of the Incident. The Investigation 
Team subsequently determined that the furnace tubes were exposed to elevated temperatures with low- 
to no-flow conditions during a non-routine Pipestill Unit restart in November 2018, creating an 
opportunity for coke to form inside of the tubes. The coke inside the tubes led to increased tube 
temperatures during normal operation, which in turn led to accelerated creep damage. 

II. RESPONSE ACTIONS 

Consistent with the Company's commitment to transparency, Valero made required and courtesy 
notifications to relevant agencies in connection with the Incident. 

Valero also retained a third-party consultancy to conduct air monitoring in the surrounding community. 
The results of this monitoring were within normal urban levels and below action levels. Valero's fence line 
monitoring system, which is approved by the Bay Area Air Quality Management District, was operational 
throughout the event. As a precaution, the City of Benicia on March 23,2019 issued a community warning 
for sensitive individuals with respiratory issues to limit time outdoors. The City lifted this warning later 
that same day. There were no injuries in connection with the Incident. 

Based on the Investigation Team's conclusions and recommendations, Valero implemented several 
improvements prior to restarting the Refinery to help safeguard against recurrence. 


1 


III. INVESTIGATION METHOD AND TEAM 


On March 23, 2019, Valero convened a team to investigate the root cause of the Incident using a causal 
analysis method consistent with applicable state and federal regulations and the Refinery's Incident 
Investigation Reporting Procedures. The Investigation Team included Refinery personnel with expertise in 
Process Safety, Operations, Maintenance, Inspection, and other pertinent areas. The team also consulted 
with third-party and Valero technical experts. The team reviewed various materials in connection with the 
investigation into the Incident, including, but not limited to: process data, electronic shift logs, air 
monitoring data, the Pipestill Unit Process Hazard Analysis, third-party expert testing results, sample 
analyses, equipment specifications, and other information. 

IV. PROCESS OVERVIEW 

Process units relevant to the Incident include the Fluid Catalytic Cracker ("FCCU"), the Fluid Coker, the 
Pipestill furnaces, and the FGS. To summarize the process flow at a high level, CO gas from the Fluid Coker 
and FCCU are mixed and enter the Pipestill furnaces, F-105 and F-106 (Vacuum Pipestill Furnace) where 
the CO gas is incinerated. The flue gases from these furnaces contain air pollutants that require emissions 
control consistent with state and federal environmental requirements. Accordingly, the flue gas from the 
Pipestill furnaces flows to Selective Catalytic Reactors to reduce nitrogen oxides. The flue gas then flows 
through a Waste Heat Boiler to produce steam and cool the gas. Flue gas then flows through a series of 
scrubbers to remove particulate matter and sulfur oxides before exiting the FGS Stack. 

V. CAUSAL ANALYSIS 
A. Initiating Event 

In November 2018, a low- to no-flow condition in the F-105 tubes occurred during a restart after an 
unplanned shutdown without full unit de-inventory of the Pipestill Unit. Specifically, during the restart on 
November 3, 2018, a safety valve on the Crude Preheat Train ("SV-107") lifted, allowing crude oil flow to 
bypass F-105. When this condition was discovered, SV-107 was immediately replaced with its spare. The 
Pipestill Unit startup was completed on November 4, 2018, with no further issues. It was not appreciated 
at the time, however, that the crude oil bypass of F-105 exposed the furnace tubes to elevated 
temperatures with low-to no-flow, creating an opportunity for coke to form inside of the tubes. Following 
the November 2018 restart, SV-107 was inspected and tested by a third-party expert. The expert 
confirmed during off-site testing and inspection that no damage occurred to SV-107 and that the valve 
did lift and reseat within code tolerances. 

In reviewing prior data relating to the November 2018 restart, the Investigation Team determined that a 
hydraulic surge event during restart likely caused SV-107 to lift. SV-107 is a pilot operated valve with a 
remote sensing line that relies on process pressure to drive full reseating of the valve. Since the hydraulic 
surge event took place over a very short time period, it is possible that the process pressure directly after 
this event was insufficient to reseat the valve. 


2 



B. March 2019 Event Analysis 

In early March 2019, the FGS Stack began experiencing relatively minor CO fluctuations while the Fluid 
Coker was experiencing burner level instability. Because Fluid Coker instability can lead to elevated coke 
fines in the flue gas through carryover, such instability was considered to be a cause of the increase in FGS 
Stack CO during that timeframe. Operational moves on F-105 were made in response to the elevated CO, 
which appeared successful in directionally reducing the FGS Stack CO; however, these moves resulted in 
furnace tube metal temperature ("TMT") increases that can directionally accelerate the furnace tube 
creep life consumption rate. 

On March 23, 2019, the Refinery experienced another sudden increase of FGS Stack CO. In response to 
this development, the Fluid Coker was immediately shut down. This did not directionally improve the FGS 
Stack CO, indicating that the Fluid Coker was not the primary contributor. When the Pipestill Unit was 
shut down a few hours later (when feed was ceased), the FGS Stack CO reduced. This supports the 
conclusion that furnace tube leaks led to the incomplete combustion of crude and subsequent elevated 
FGS Stack CO. 

Post-shutdown inspection data showed that F-105 "D" and "E" pass tube leaks are attributable to 
excessive creep damage. Inspection data also showed "C" pass experienced leaks; however, process data 
trended by the Investigation Team indicates that unlike passes "D" and "E," "C" pass normalized flow did 
not drop significantly after the start-up in November 2018. Therefore, it is possible that "C" pass was not 
the first pass to leak, but could have subsequently leaked as a collateral effect of the initial leaks found in 
"D" and "E" passes. 

VI. Findings and Recommendations 

The March 2019 FGS Stack CO exceedance was the result of F-105 tube failures. The damage mechanism 
for the F-105 tube failures was high temperature creep. This damage mechanism was verified through 
third-party metallurgical analysis of the furnace tubes. The creep was caused by operating at TMTs above 
normal. The high TMTs were caused by the insulating effect of coke inside of the tubes. The coke was 
formed due to low- to no-flow condition in the tubes during a start-up in November 2018. This low- to no¬ 
flow condition was caused by SV-107 internally lifting and diverting flow around F-105. 

The Investigation Team developed the findings, interim recommendations (implemented before the May 
2019 restart), and final recommendations, below, in connection with the investigation into the Incident. 
Some of these recommendations may not be directly related to the root causes of the Incident, but are 
considered beneficial to enhanced operation of F-105. 


3 



March 23, 2019 FGS Stack CO Exceedance: Findings and Recommendations 

Ref. 

Finding 

HCA Recommendation 

Target Date 

1 

From November 2018 to 
March 2019, F-105 tubes 
experienced accelerated 
creep, which was not timely 
identified and mitigated, 
leading to the tubes' 
subsequent failure and FGS 
Stack CO exceedances in 
March 2019 

Procedural: Implement enhanced Process 
Engineering Monitoring for F-105 and F-106 
furnace operations for possible flow 
restrictions 

Implemented on 
May 5, 2019 

2a 

Localized coke build-up in 
the F-105 tubes was not 
effectively detected by 
existing temperature 
indicators 

Active: While detection of localized coking 
is a common industry challenge, consider 
enhancing temperature monitoring in 
additional areas of F-105: 

• Restore 24 TMTs on tubes on West end 
of F-105 box 

• Add 24 TMTs on tubes on East end of F- 
105 box 

Implemented 
from April 25- 
26, 2019, prior 
to May 2019 
startup 

2b 

F-105 tube leak was not 
rapidly discerned 

Active: To aid in furnace monitoring, 
operations restored CO and 02 analyzer 
functionality 

Implemented 
from April 25- 
26, 2019, prior 
to May 2019 
startup 

3 

The Pipestill Unit 
Consequence of Deviation 
("COD") table did not 
include effective guidance 
on the time limit for 
operation of F-105 in start¬ 
up, low flow conditions 

Procedural: Review and revise COD table to 
provide additional guidance regarding 
consequences of deviating from normal 
operating limits during start-up, low flow 
conditions 

Implementation 
due date: 

October 1, 2019 

4 

SV-107 may not have 
reseated immediately, 
which allowed for an 

extended diversion of flow 
from F-105 

Active: Material build-up in the pilot system 
can adversely affect the ability of the valve 
to reseat. Evaluate optimal size of sensing 
line for S\/-107 to minimize potential for 
material build-up in the pilot system 

Implementation 
due date: 

October 1, 2019 

Procedural: Update, as appropriate, 

Pipestill procedure(s) to reduce likelihood 
of flow diversion from F-105 

Implemented 
before May 

2019 restart 


4 




