Valero announces a new scholarship program for Aruban students 
This past Thursday afternoon executives of Valero Refinery Aruba met at the Renaissance Convention 
Center with local press members to announce that the refinery management had initiated a new scholarship 
program for the children of Aruba. “A good education to a child is one of the best gifts that you can give,” 
states Ray Buckly, Vice President and General Manager of the Valero Aruba Refinery. 
Presenting the program on Thursday were Community and Government Affairs Director for Valero, David 
M. Smith and Paul Arends, Valero’s Director of Human Resources. Mr. Arends explained the details of the 
program. 
Students will receive a four year commitment from Valero for 4, 450 florins per year ($2,500) for a total of 
17, 800 florins over four years ($10,000.) The funds can be applied to tuition, housing, books, or wherever 
needed. The grant can also be combined with other scholarships and loan programs. It can be applied to an 
institution of higher learning in the U.S., Europe, Latin America, or another island, there are no 
geographical limitations. The student is required to maintain a 2.5 grade average, or the equivalent of a 7 in 
the Aruban/Dutch system. 
Valero Refinery Aruba has already maintained this scholarship program for the children of its employees 
for the past three years. Ray Buckley asserts that the refinery management is “very excited about not only 
providing these scholarships to the children of our employees, but also offering other students in the 
community the opportunity to benefit from this great program. This program recognizes the students (who 
stand out from their peers in academics, extracurricular activities and community service) for their 
achievements and encourages them to set high goals and get a solid education.” 
Applications for the scholarships can be found at all the Valero gas stations in Aruba and the Human 
Resources office in the Valero Refinery, and must be filled in and submitted no later then March 15, 2006. 
An independent panel of local educators and civic leaders will evaluate all application and determine the 
recipients of the scholarships depending on their scholastic achievement, extracurricular activities, 
community involvement, and financial need. All nominees must have a minimum of a H.A.V.O. diploma or 
equivalent or can be attending their first or second year at a university. 
The scholarship program has existed for a number of years within the international Valero community, and 
Valero Energy Corporation, A Fortune 500 Company based out of San Antonio, Texas has already awarded 
more than two million dollars to 269 students related to Valero employees wherever the company has 
operations. 
During the press conference, Mr. Smith and Mr. Arends expressed how proud and pleased the management 
of Valero Refinery is to make this contribution to the Aruban community and the future of its youth, in yet 
another project that involves them with the island population and offers them the opportunity to be a “good 
neighbor” yet again. Only ten scholarships will be awarded per year, so aspiring students are reminded to 
obtain their applications and submit them as soon as possible. For more information about the program it is 
requested that inquiries be made to Beth Trexler, Human Resources Manager of Valero Aruba Refinery at 
telephone # 589-8610. 


