The first annual “Aruba Way” Golf Tournament raises $55,000. for the Washington 
Center for Children 
On Saturday, September 2, the Tierra del Sol Golf Course and Country Club conducted the first “Aruba 
Way” golf tournament, a charity affair to raise substantial funds for the Centro Juvenil Washington. 
Twenty-two four-man teams made their way around the beautiful Robert Trent-Jones Jr. golf course, 
donating $2,500 per team to enjoy a convivial afternoon of golf. Afterwards they relaxed with a delicious 
buffet awards dinner on the Tierra del Sol terrace. Tournament fees will all be donated to the center and the 
day of golf was donated by of Tierra del Sol, while Valero Refinery donated the trophies and dinner. 
The “Aruba Way” is a charitable program sponsored by Valero Refinery Aruba, which gets its main funds 
from donations made by Valero Refinery employees. They specify a percentage of their salaries to be 
deducted, and the refinery matches that amount, which will produce 500,000 Arubian florins to be donated 
to worthy causes on Aruba for the year 2005. This tournament will provide an additional substantial sum to 
the Washington Youth Center, allowing some desperately needed repairs to their sports facility. 
The Washington Center is used by youth organization all over the island for the activities of various youth 
sport leagues, and, in addition, a venue for holiday and summer camps. 
The First Place winners of the Aruba Way Tournament was a team that likes to keep in all in the family 
from GTC Petro Advance, a sub contractor of Valero, with the four man team of Feldman, Feldman, 
Feldman, and Feldman, which boasted a net score of 51.8. Second Place trophies went to Total Safety, and 
the Stork Wescar Aruba team was declared the third place winner. David Smith, Community and 
Government Affairs Director of Valero, and Oliver Riding, Head Golf Pro of Tierra del Sol awarded 
special prizes to Merrick Alpert for the longest drive, and Steve Wescott for Nearest to the Pin. David 
Smith, with a beaming countenance, was proud to hand over a check for 90,000 Arubian Florins to the 
Board of the Centro Juvenil Washington. 
In one last gesture during his tenure in Aruba, before moving up the ladder in a position in San Antonio, 
Martin Parrish, former Vice-President and General Manager of Valero Refinery Aruba gave a brief thank 
you to the gathering for their generosity and participation. He then conducted a raffle for an all expense 
paid trip for two to the Valero Open Golf Tournament in San Antonio, Texas, which was claimed by a 
representative of Todeke, N.V. 
The first annual Aruba Way Golf Tournament was a great success, raising a substantial sum of money, 
which Pro Oliver Riding described as a sum with which the Washington Center “could really accomplish 
something important.” This is one of many such projects that have been organized by Valero Refinery 
Aruba in promoting their policy of community activism and awareness. Congratulations to the winners for 
their beautiful trophies, and thank you to the management of Valero for their continuing efforts to assist the 
Aruban community. 


