Performing while Transforming 


In 2017, PepsiCo continued to deliver strong performance and shareholder returns, 
powered by our portfolio of Fun for You, Better for You and Good for You products.* 


cash returned to 


shareholders through core constant 
dividends and currency EPS 
share repurchases growth’ 


free cash 
Flow, excluding 
certain items' 


Our selection of low- and 
zero-calorie beverages and more- 
nutritious foods continued to grow, 

including Aqua Minerale Water + Juice, 
new flavors of KeVita Master Brew 
Kombucha, Quaker 3 Minutos 
and Off the Eaten Path. 


PepsiCo’s distinctive @) 
black can Pepsi, with maximum 
cola taste and zero sugar, e fe) 


expanded to 35+ new markets 
around the world in 2017. 


core net 
return on invested 
capital (ROIC)' 


growth’ 


The joint launch of MTN DEW ICE 
and Doritos Blaze harnessed 
the power of PepsiCo’s 
complementary food and 
beverage brands. 


annual savings 
enabled by productivity 
agenda 


wn ew 
SIMPL 


ORGANIC 


Dorites 


WHITE CHEDDAR 


WHITE CHEDDA\ 


2e@ \ JALAPENO 


Frito-Lay’s expanded Simply line 
offers great-tasting 
snacks with no artificial 
flavors or colors. 


. Full-year reported net revenue increased 1.2%. Full-year reported EPS declined 23%. Full-year reported EPS results include a $2.5 billion provisional net tax expense ($1.70 per share) associated with the enactment of the 


U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Full-year cash flow from operating activities was $10 billion. Over the past five years, reported net revenue declined at a 1% compound annual growth rate and reported EPS declined an average 
of 2%. Organic, core and constant currency results, free cash flow, excluding certain items, as well as ROIC and core net ROIC, are non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to “Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP 
Information” beginning on page 147 of this Annual Report for definitions and more information about these results, including a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measure in accordance with GAAP. 


2017 PepsiCo Annual Report | 1 


Indra K. Nooyi 
PepsiCo Chairman 
of the Board of 
Directors and Chief 
Executive Officer 


Dear Fellow 
Shareholders, 


More than half a century ago, standing before an assembly 

of civic leaders and citizens in Frankfurt, Germany, President 
John F. Kennedy — a man who, for so many, embodied the 
dawning of anew era —articulated his philosophy on progress: 


“For time and the world do not stand still,” he said. “Change 
is the law of life. And those who look only to the past or the 
present are certain to miss the future.” Table of 


Contents 


Two years later, in 1965, Frito-Lay and Pepsi-Cola merged 

to form PepsiCo. And ever since, we have done our best to 
live up to those words, to the idea of always looking to the 
future. Throughout our history, we have continually scanned 
the horizon, strived to identify new and emerging trends, 
and focused on making the necessary investments and 


Letter to Shareholders 01 
Financial Highlights 10 
PepsiCo Board of Directors 11 


PepsiCo Leadership 12 


. . PepsiCo Form 10-K 13 
adjustments to navigate them successfully. etches 
Reconciliation of GAAP 
and Non-GAAP Information 147 
That is why, decade after decade, we have consistently delivered Forward-Looking Statements 150 
top-tier returns, outperformed the competition and built a Common Stock and 
portfolio of iconic brands, while also attracting and developing Shavendl der nonnatlenrs 
some of the best and brightest leaders in our industry. Poipokate information 


*As we evolve our portfolio and expand our offerings, we are continually updating our definitions of our Good for You, Better for You and Fun for You categories, 
and what products fit within each category. Below are 2017 definitions: 

GOOD FOR YOU options help consumers meet recommended daily intakes of whole grains, vegetables, fruits, dairy, nuts and seeds with low to no amounts of 
particular nutrients, such as added sugars, salt or saturated fat. 

BETTER FOR YOU options can help consumers limit particular nutrients, such as added sugars, salt or saturated fat, when incorporated into a well-balanced diet. 
These options include beverages with fewer or no calories. In this category, we also include products specifically formulated to provide a functional benefit, 
such as addressing the performance needs of athletes. 

FUN FOR YOU options are treats for consumers to enjoy responsibly. 


Our commitment to excellence and innovation served us well 
once again in 2017, unlocking another year of strong operating 
performance’: 


e We delivered organic revenue growth of 2.3%. 

e We expanded core operating margins by 45 basis points. 

e We grew core constant currency EPS by 9%, exceeding the 
8% goal we set at the beginning of 2017. 

e We generated free cash flow, excluding certain items, of 
$7.3 billion, which exceeded our goal of approximately 
$7 billion we set at the beginning of 2017. 

e Core net ROIC expanded by 140 basis points and now 
stands at 22.9%. 

e We met our goal of returning $6.5 billion in cash 
to shareholders through dividends and share 
repurchases combined. 


Our 2017 results build 
on astrong five-year 
track record: 


e Organic revenue grew at a 4% compound rate. 
e Core operating margin expanded by 220 basis points. 


e Core constant currency EPS growth averaged more than 
9% annually. 


e Core net ROIC expanded more than 750 basis points. 
e Our annualized dividend per share increased by 50%. 


e We returned $38 billion to shareholders through dividends 
and share repurchases combined. 


These are impressive results, particularly in light of all 
the global megatrends impacting our business, including 
macroeconomic and political volatility; the continued 
rebalancing of the economic world; shifting consumer 
preferences and increasing demand for more nutritious 
foods and beverages; the disruption of retail; and 

the emergence of niche brands capturing growth in 
many markets. 


One of the other powerful megatrends impacting our business, 
of course, is the relentless pace of digital innovation. Internet- 
enabled services, automation across the value chain, the rise 
of Big Data, and pervasive social media-driven consumption 
are fundamentally transforming how all of us live, work, 
communicate, shop and do business. 


| have written about some of these megatrends in past 
letters to shareholders, but what sets this moment apart 
is not just the perpetuation of these trends, but also their 
acceleration and the amplification of their impact on our 
business — and all businesses. 


Arecent study of how companies perform when confronted by 
industry-wide disruption found that only one-third successfully 
navigate change and emerge on the other side. 


lam absolutely confident PepsiCo will be one of those 
companies, emerging from this period stronger than before — 
because we have anticipated many of these trends and 
changes, and invested behind them. 


The ongoing transformation of our portfolio with more 
delicious, nutritious choices is helping ensure the health 
of our business. The power of our retail and foodservice 
partnerships offers an unmatched advantage in the 
marketplace. We are differentiating ourselves with world- 
class design and capturing growth in eCommerce. 
Digitalization is empowering us to be more responsive to 
the needs of customers and consumers, and helping drive 
greater agility and efficiency, leading to greater productivity. 
We are minimizing our impact on the planet while reducing 
costs. And upskilling our associates is helping ensure 

we have the workforce of the future, while uplifting our 
communities is helping ensure we are a good neighbor in 
the markets we serve. 


Let’s take these, one at atime: 


More Delicious, 
Nutritious Choices 


We are offering consumers a wide array of great-tasting 
choices, from Fun for You, to Better for You, to Good for 
You products, and leveraging the power of our distribution 
system to make them available everywhere consumers 
want them. 


In 2017, we continued expanding our selection of low- and 
zero-calorie beverages, with launches such as Aqua 
Minerale Water+Juice and new flavors of KeVita Master Brew 


Portfolio Ww og 
Transformation 


Better for You and Good for You 
products are an increasing 
percentage of our total portfolio. 


2006 


Fun for You 
@ Better for You & Good for You 


While delivering strong performance, 
we continued to expand our selection of 
more nutritious foods and beverages to 
meet consumers’ shifting preferences and 
unlock opportunities for growth. 


2017 PepsiCo AnnualReport 2 | 3 


Kombucha, while introducing Tropicana Probiotics. And our 
distinctive black can Pepsi— known as Pepsi Zero Sugar or 
Pepsi Max — continued to gain ground around the world. 


We also introduced Quaker 3 Minutos, an affordable, whole- 
grain, oat-based product that delivers daily nutrition to 
consumers across Latin America, and Off the Eaten Path, 
a series of vegetable- and legume-based products like 
Veggie Crisps, Hummus Crisps and Sweet Potato Crisps 
available in the U.S. and UK. And we built on the success 
of the Simply brand with new products like Simply Doritos 
White Cheddar. 


These are just a few of the more nutritious products we 
launched in 2017, building on more than a decade of progress 
transforming our portfolio. In fact, while in 2006 our Fun for 
You portfolio was about 70% larger than our Good for You 
and Better for You portfolios combined, by the end of 2017, 
they were nearly equal in size. 


Enabling this shift in our portfolio has been our long-term 
investment in R&D — from product reformulation to sweetener 
and ingredient discovery — that has produced foods and 
beverages with fewer calories, less salt and reduced fat 
without sacrificing great taste. 


Building ne ice 
Powerful Brands ‘brand 


water brand LIFEWTR generated 
approximately $200M in 

We continued to engage consumers with estimated annual retail sales 

cutting-edge design, exciting 

and world-class partnerships. 


in 2017, its first year. Four series 
of bottles celebrated public 

art, womenin the arts, 
fashion and arts in 

education. 


a |S 8 2 


SERIES 1 SERIES 2 SERIES 3 SERIES 4 


F 


Champions 
League 


PepsiCo celebrated its 
second year of partnership with 
UEFA Champions League, with more 
than 100 markets activating across some 
of PepsiCo’s biggest global brands, 
including Pepsi, Lay’s and Gatorade. 


Unmatched 
Retail and Foodservice 
Partnerships 


Enabled by our integrated Global Foodservice team, we are 
leveraging our complementary food and beverage portfolios 
to drive sales and help support our retail and foodservice 
partners in the U.S. and across the world. 


The strength of our partnerships in the U.S. was reflected 

in Kantar Retail’s 2017 PoweRanking® survey, where, for the 
second consecutive year in the 21-year history of Kantar, our 
retail partners named us the #1, best-in-class manufacturer, 
with the gap between #1 and #2 widening significantly since 
2016. This ranking is a testament to the dedication of our 
associates and the innovations we continue to bring to market, 
including our Hello Goodness platform that offers consumers a 
range of lower-calorie and more-nutritious options. 


We were also ranked by the Advantage Report™ as the #1 
food and beverage supplier in the U.S., and many of our 
business units are highly ranked in markets such as China, 
Thailand, Russia, the UK, Poland and Mexico. 


Based on our reputation for top-tier service and world-class 
innovation, we forged or extended a number of foodservice 
partnerships in 2017, increasing distribution and market share. 
We completed long-term renewals with YUM Brands in the U.S. 


° 
helloGoodness 9° 


Hello Goodness vending machines, 
coolers and racks, offering more 
nutritious on-the-go snacks and 
beverages, significantly expanded 
across the U.S., with nearly 40,000 
units sold into the market. 


2017 PepsiCo Annual Report 4 | 5 


207, 
& 


gi 
ah 
a ° 
@° Retailpartners @ 
scored PepsiCo 


in Kantar Retail’s ® | 
2017 PoweRanking® 
Survey 


and several international markets, expanded our partnership 
with Subway to China, France and Colombia, and won new 
colleges and universities, including Portland State University, 
the University of Kansas and University of Utah. 


Differentiating 

PepsiCo with Design 
In 2017, our design team helped drive successful launches of 
new products such as LIFEWTR, while creating meaningful, 
memorable experiences for customers and consumers 
at major global events, from Super Bowl LI to Milan Design 
Week to the UEFA Champions League Final. Recognized 
with more than 400 awards since 2012, PepsiCo’s design team 
helps bolster our reputation as one of the world’s leading 
corporate innovators. 


New Channels 
for Growth 


Our investment in digital capabilities and 
eCommerce helped drive strong results in 2017, 
particularly in the U.S. and China, positioning 
us well for Future growth. 


in annualized 
retail sales from 
eCommerce 


Exclusive 
eCommerce offerings 


PepsiCo’s eCommerce team 
developed branded NFL gift packs 
with team-themed products 
to help consumers amp up their 
game-watch parties. 


Lo 7 BOK ng Fly j | 2 


Fy, We, 
> Bum 
"RS bie 


“Ste a 


USA 


In China, one of the biggest 
eCommerce markets in the 
world, PepsiCo has launched 
innovative snacks exclusively 
for online channels, driving 
ee , CHINA 
revenue gains in the region. 


Breakthrough 
digital engagement 


PepsiCo Greater China 
celebrated the 6th year of its 
“Bring Happiness Home” 
campaign, with a video that 


generated more than 
1 billion views. 


Capturing 

Growth in eCommerce 
Our investment in eCommerce across multiple channels 
helped drive strong results in 2017, particularly in the U.S. 
and China. We are leveraging Big Data and predictive 
analytics to shape real-time marketing messages, dynamic 
merchandising and tailored offers. And we are increasingly 
collaborating with retail customers to make eCommerce a 
point of differentiation for PepsiCo, earning awards for 
eCommerce excellence. In fact, our eCommerce business in 
2017 generated approximately $1 billion in annualized retail 
sales, and we believe we are well-positioned to seize the 
dynamic future of this space. 


Digitalizing 

PepsiCo 
In the face of rapid technological innovation and accelerating 
change throughout our industry, we are deploying digital 
capabilities widely across the company. Frito-Lay North 
America is using Big Data to help make sure consumers can 
find their favorite snacks in local stores. In India, we set up a 
Digital Command Center to analyze links between consumer 
behavior and business results. In China, we leveraged 
social media to launch the latest “Bring Happiness Home” 
Chinese New Year campaign, including a 20-minute video 
that generated more than 1 billion views. Our increased 
commitment to digitalization in Latin America drove up our 
return on investment from advertising and marketing. We 
are capitalizing on the emerging capabilities of the Internet 
of Things, from predicting when plant equipment will need 
maintenance to reducing energy consumption. And we are just 
getting started. 


Enhancing 

Productivity with Greater 

Agility and Efficiency 
In 2017, we generated approximately $1 billion in savings, 
enabled by our productivity agenda. Our productivity 
has been driven by a relentless continuous-improvement 


2017 PepsiCo Annual Report 6 | 7 


mindset, focused on every aspect of our value chain. We 
have refined our business model to reduce management 
layers and accelerate decision-making. We have harnessed 
leading-edge digital tools to increase manufacturing 
throughput, curb logistics costs, and improve go-to-market 
efficiency and effectiveness. And we are sustainably 
reinvesting in our business, positioning ourselves to capture 
tomorrow’s growth. 


r 
—__ 9 )\— 
Vo 
Minimizing Our 


Environmental Impact 
while Cutting Costs 


We are accelerating our efforts to minimize PepsiCo’s 
environmental footprint, enabling us to curb costs and 
mitigate our operational impact on the communities 
we serve. 


In 2017, we teamed up with leading universities, 
governments and innovators on projects such as developing 
biodegradable film resins that meet the sustainable 
flexible packaging needs of our global business — helping 
advance our goal of designing 100% of our packaging to be 
recyclable, compostable or biodegradable by 2025. 


We also continued investing in long-term water security, 
from Latin America, where we are developing innovative 
solutions to help public institutions more efficiently 
manage water, to the Middle East, where we are working 
with the Jordanian Ministry of Water and Irrigation to 
replenish water at its source. In fact, through community 
programs, we returned more water than we consumed 

in Jordan every year from 2013 to 2015 — more than 

600 million liters annually. 


Upskilling Our 
Workforce and Uplifting 
Communities 


PepsiCo’s success has always rested on our single greatest 
asset: our people. At a time of sweeping change in our 
industry, we are helping associates develop the skills they need 
to grow and our company needs to thrive, from enhancing our 
Education Assistance Program so frontline associates can 
build their skills and earn a degree in an area that advances 
their careers, to expanding PepsiCo University’s course 
offerings on digital trends. In 2017, our associates completed 
over 1 million hours of training for the second consecutive year, 
and more than 3,000 associates attended Learn Together 
sessions with subject-matter experts to enhance their skills. 


In 2017, we also renewed our commitment to supporting our 
associates in other ways. On-site and near-site childcare 
opened in Purchase and Plano — joining the childcare options 
already available at or near PepsiCo locations around the 
world — and we launched our Ready to Return initiative, a 
10-week “boot camp” for professionals seeking to refresh their 
skills after taking time off to care for a loved one. 


yee 
~ a4 ——_=— 
oo 


All of these efforts reflect a broader commitment to operating 
in away that not only generates sustained financial growth 
and consistently strong returns, but also does so while 
being responsive to the needs of the world around us. That 
commitment— what we call Performance with Purpose — is 
increasingly important to a wide range of stakeholders, 
from consumers to investors. 


According to a recent study, assets managed with responsible 
investment criteria grew from more than $18 trillion in 2014 
to nearly $23 trillion in 2016 — a trend expected to gain 
momentum in the years ahead, as investors under the age of 
35 are twice as likely to divest from a company if it is perceived 
to be unsustainable. 


This trend reflects the idea that, in the 21st century, being a 
greatcompany means being a good company, too. It means 
focusing not only on the coming quarters, but also the coming 
years, considering the level, as well as duration of returns. 


At PepsiCo, we know that prioritizing the short term at the 
expense of the long term is simply not sustainable, and 
perpetuates the kinds of boom-splat cycles that are not 
good for any of our stakeholders. Instead, we have adopted 

a different approach— advancing both short- and long-term 
priorities, hand in hand, so we can deliver strong returns 
that grow consistently over an extended period of time. And 
we have done so while upholding the highest standards of 
corporate integrity and responsibility. In fact, PepsiCo is the 
only food and beverage company to appear on the Ethisphere 
Institute's list of the World’s Most Ethical Companies® every 
year since the list was established twelve years ago. 


More than a decade into our Performance with Purpose 
journey, |am more confident than ever that we are on the 
right path. And we have recommitted to that path with 

our Performance with Purpose 2025 Agenda, embedding 
sustainability into everything we do and powering a virtuous 
cycle that allows us to continue doing well by doing good. 


Our company has come along way from our humble roots 
ina North Carolina apothecary, and so long as we continue 
heeding what John F. Kennedy called “the law of life’— 
change — and always look to the future, we will continue 
climbing higher and crossing new frontiers in 2018 and beyond. 


Thank you for your support and the confidence you've placed 
in us with your investment. 


Indra K. Nooyi 

PepsiCo Chairman of the 
Board of Directors and 
Chief Executive Officer 


2017 PepsiCo AnnualReport 8 | 9 


Performance with 


Since launching our ambitious Performance with 
Purpose 2025 Agenda, we have made progress 
across our sustainability goals in each of the 
Agendoa’s three focus areas — Products, Planet and 

People — strengthening our business and Quaker 3 Minutos, anafforddble, 
the communities we serve whole-grain, oat-based product 

i fortified with vitamins and minerals, 


is helping consUmers in Mexico 
get thedaily nutrition 


6M >260M —— 


women and girls assisted servings of nutritious 
through investments foods and beverages 
in communities provided to underserved 
around the world consumers and Red U ced 
communities iewicesnelesinesesieewesisa ate hee sis eaves és 


added sugars, saturated 
fat and sodium in our food 
and beverage portfolio 


liters of water 
replenished locally 
in high-risk 
watersheds 


In 2017; PepsiCo placed one of 

the largest reservations for 
Tesla, Inc.’s new electric Semi 

1 1 M trucks to help reduce fleet 

emissions and cut down 
sigsubasesacesceageee seeeeens mniualcacte: 

people provided 

safe water access 
since 2006 


hours of training 
completed by 
our associates 
in 2017 


All of the data presented above is for 2016, unless otherwise noted. For more information on our goals and progress, please see our 2016 Sustainability 
Report available at www.pepsico.com. 


2017 Financial Highlights 


Mix of Net Revenue Net Revenues 


_ North America Beverages 33% 


p ; F 6 
eee! fe ae eee te Latin America 11% 


Asia Middle East and North Africa 10% 


Quaker Foods North America 4% 


Europe Sub-Saharan Africa 17% 


Frito-Lay North America 25% 


ene eee 


Soe ee 


Frito-Lay North America 42% 


PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries 


(in millions except per share data; all per share amounts assume dilution) 


Summary of Operations 


Net revenue 
Core total operating profit 


Reported earnings per share 


Core earnings per share attributable to PepsiCo $ 5.23 $ 4.85 8% 
eae Me marines cessn des oat aasoas vas sucvascayandesteasessassbsscaseanssssesscaetoee ogo eager 
eae UP ipsa aceeeses ad esvag sites eas ceatulsy cans sacaat ysueziues svg ugesineces need aavasteneerseneseustenmanisscs eee er Santina ares oe 
gee eer ree dessshdh eeu os Soienaeonissncencacoeicataesegetecetassassessctseeseesianss nese sae cpa an ae 
See ar eshte canes cecarseac tc ive cheuerecte caseatedes scutes ery euatitetseutsatas cats cageyveses acenrnatuseaietactiers ey wma ee baiiaceraseie tas oS 


(a) Percentage changes are based on unrounded amounts. 

(b) Excludes the net mark-to-market impact of our commodity derivatives and restructuring and impairment charges in both years. In 2016, also excludes a charge related to the transaction 
with Tingyi and a pension-related settlement charge. See page 147 “Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Information” for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measure 
in accordance with GAAP. 

(c) Excludes the net mark-to-market impact of our commodity derivatives and restructuring and impairment charges in both years. In 2017, also excludes the provisional net tax expense related 
to the TCJ Act. In 2016, also excludes a charge related to the transaction with Tingyi, a charge related to debt redemption anda pension-related settlement charge. See page 52 “Results of 
Operations — Consolidated Review — Other Consolidated Results” in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and page 147 "Reconciliation of 
GAAP and Non-GAAP Information” for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measure in accordance with GAAP. 

(d) Includes the impact of net capital spending, and excludes payments related to restructuring charges and the associated net cash tax benefits, as well as discretionary pension 
contributions and the associated net cash tax benefits in both years. In 2016, also excludes net cash received related to interest rate swaps and net cash tax benefit related to debt redemption 
charge. See page 70 “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and page 147 "Reconciliation of GAAP 
and Non-GAAP Information” for areconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measure in accordance with GAAP. 


PepsiCo Board of Directors 


2017 PepsiCo Annual Report 10 | 11 


PHOTO LEFT TO RIGHT 


Cesar Conde, 44 
Chairman, 
NBCuUniversal 
International Group 
and NBCUniversal 
Telemundo Enterprises 
Elected 2016 


Robert C. Pohlad, 63 
President, 

Dakota Holdings, LLC 
Elected 2015 


Richard W. Fisher, 68 
Former President and 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Federal Reserve 

Bank of Dallas 

Elected 2015 


George W. Buckley, 71 
Former Chairman, 
President and Chief 
Executive Officer, 

3M Company 

Elected 2012 


Darren Walker, 58 
President, 

Ford Foundation 
Elected 2016 


Shona L. Brown, 52 
Independent Advisor; 
Former Senior Advisor, 
Google Inc. 

Elected 2009 


Alberto Weisser, 62 
Former Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Bunge Limited 

Elected 2011 


Dina Dublon, 64 
Former Executive Vice 
President and Chief 
Financial Officer, 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
Elected 2005 


lan M. Cook, 65 
Chairman, 
President and Chief 
Executive Officer, 
Colgate-Palmolive 
Company 

Elected 2008 


Indra K. Nooyi, 62 
Chairman of the 

Board of Directors and 
Chief Executive Officer, 
PepsiCo 

Elected 2001 


David C. Page, MD, 61 
Director and President, 
Whitehead Institute 

for Biomedical Research; 
Professor, 
Massachusetts 

Institute of Technology 
Elected 2014 


William R. Johnson, 69 
Operating Partner, 
Global Retail and 
Consumer, Advent 
International 
Corporation; Former 
Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive Officer, 
H.J. Heinz Company 
Elected 2015 


Daniel Vasella, MD, 64 
Former Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Novartis AG 

Elected 2002 


PepsiCo Leadership 


PHOTO LEFT TO RIGHT 


Kirk Tanner 
President and Chief 
Operating Officer, 
North America 
Beverages 


Mike Spanos 

Chief Executive Officer, 
Asia, Middle East and 
North Africa 


Eugene Willemsen 
Executive Vice President, 
Global Categories & 
Franchise Management 


Silviu Popovici 
President, 

Europe Sub-Saharan 
Africa 


Ruth Fattori 

Executive Vice President, 
Human Resources and 
Chief Human Resources 
Officer 


Laxman Narasimhan 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Latin America and 
Europe Sub-Saharan 
Africa 


Hugh F. Johnston 

Vice Chairman, 
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial 
Officer 


David Yawman 
Executive Vice President, 
Government Affairs, 
General Counsel and 
Corporate Secretary 


Ramon Laguarta 
President 


Indra K. Nooyi 
Chairman of the 
Board of Directors and 
Chief Executive Officer 


Vivek Sankaran 
President and Chief 
Operating Officer, 
Frito-Lay North America 


Jim Andrew 

Executive Vice President, 
Corporate Strategy and 
Chief Venturing Officer 


Jon Banner 
Executive Vice President, 
Communications 


Dr. Mehmood Khan 
Vice Chairman, 
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Scientific 
Officer, Global Research 
and Development 


Grace Puma 
Executive Vice President, 
Global Operations 


Albert P. Carey 
Chief Executive Officer, 
North America 


Sanjeev Chadha 
Chairman, Asia, 
Middle East and 
North Africa 


See pages 32-35 of the Form 10-K for alist of PepsiCo Executive Officers subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 


2017 PepsiCo AnnualReport 12 | 13 


PepsiCo, Inc. 
Annual Report 2017 
Form 10-K 


For the fiscal year ended 
December 30, 2017 


page intentionally left blank 


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
WASHINGTON, DC 20549 


FORM 10-K 


ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 


For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 
Commission file number 1-1183 


@ PEPSICO 
tS) ays) Tropicana. pind G 


pepsic QUAKER. 


PepsiCo, Inc. 


(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) 


North Carolina 13-1584302 
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization) (LR.S. Employer Identification No.) 


700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) 


Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: 914-253-2000 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: 


Title of each class Name of each exchange on which registered 
Common Stock, par value 1-2/3 cents per share The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC and Chicago Stock 
Exchange 
2.500% Senior Notes Due 2022 New York Stock Exchange 
1.750% Senior Notes Due 2021 New York Stock Exchange 
2.625% Senior Notes Due 2026 New York Stock Exchange 
0.875% Senior Notes Due 2028 New York Stock Exchange 


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes NoO 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes 0 No 


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has 
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes NoO 


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive 
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes NoO 


Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained 
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by 
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. 0 


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting 


company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” 
and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 

Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer 0 

Non-accelerated filer 0 Smaller reporting company 0 


(Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Riverine pramticonpaiy ol 


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying 
with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. O 


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes 0 No 


The aggregate market value of PepsiCo, Inc. Common Stock held by nonaffiliates of PepsiCo, Inc. (assuming for these purposes, but 
without conceding, that all executive officers and directors of PepsiCo, Inc. are affiliates of PepsiCo, Inc.) as of June 16, 2017, the last 
day of business of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, was $166.5 billion (based on the closing sale price of PepsiCo, 
Inc.’s Common Stock on that date as reported on the New York Stock Exchange). 

The number of shares of PepsiCo, Inc. Common Stock outstanding as of February 6, 2018 was 1,419,908,267. 

Documents Incorporated by Reference 


Portions of the Proxy Statement relating to PepsiCo, Inc.’s 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part 
III of this Form 10-K. 


PepsiCo, Inc. 


Form 10-K Annual Report 
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 30, 2017 


Table of Contents 


N 


Item 1. Business 


N 
\o 


Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 


Ww 
“ 


Item 3. Legal Proceedings 


fare 
o 
5 

Nn 


Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer 
Purchases of Equity Securities 


w 
On 


= 
o 
=| 

— 


Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 44 


Item 8. —_ Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 132 


Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 132 


Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 133 


Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related 
Stockholder Matters 


— 
1oS) 
1oS) 


— 
eS) 
BR 


Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 


: 
5 
= 


— 
oS) 
[on 


Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 


Forward-Looking Statements 


This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements reflecting our views about our future performance 
that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform 
Act of 1995 (Reform Act). Statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the 
Reform Act are generally identified through the inclusion of words such as “aim,” “anticipate,” “believe,” 
“drive,” “estimate,” “expect,” “expressed confidence,” “forecast,” “future,” “goal,” “guidance,” 
“intend,” “may,” “objective,” “outlook,” “plan,” “position,” “potential,” “project,” “seek,” “should,” 
“strategy,” “target,” “will” or similar statements or variations of such words and other similar expressions. 
All statements addressing our future operating performance, and statements addressing events and 
developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future, are forward-looking statements within the 
meaning of the Reform Act. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available information, 
operating plans and projections about future events and trends. They inherently involve risks and uncertainties 
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in any such forward-looking statement. 
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and 
“Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Our 
Business — Our Business Risks.” Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forwara- 
looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any 
forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The discussion 
of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all-inclusive but is designed to highlight what we 
believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance. 


Id 66 


PARTI 
Item 1. Business. 


99 66 


When used in this report, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” “PepsiCo” and the “Company” mean PepsiCo, Inc. 
and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively. Certain terms used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are 
defined in the Glossary included in Item 7. of this report. 


Company Overview 


We were incorporated in Delaware in 1919 and reincorporated in North Carolina in 1986. We are a leading 
global food and beverage company with a complementary portfolio of enjoyable brands, including Frito- 
Lay, Gatorade, Pepsi-Cola, Quaker and Tropicana. Through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract 
manufacturers and other third parties, we make, market, distribute and sell a wide variety of convenient and 
enjoyable beverages, foods and snacks, serving customers and consumers in more than 200 countries and 
territories. 


Our Operations 
We are organized into six reportable segments (also referred to as divisions), as follows: 


1) Frito-Lay North America (FLNA), which includes our branded food and snack businesses in the 
United States and Canada; 


2) Quaker Foods North America (QFNA), which includes our cereal, rice, pasta and other branded food 
businesses in the United States and Canada; 


3) North America Beverages (NAB), which includes our beverage businesses in the United States and 
Canada; 


4) Latin America, which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in Latin America; 


5) Europe Sub-Saharan Africa (ESSA), which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses 
in Europe and Sub-Saharan Africa; and 


6) Asia, Middle East and North Africa (AMENA), which includes all of our beverage, food and snack 
businesses in Asia, Middle East and North Africa. 


Our segment net revenue (in millions) and contributions to consolidated net revenue for each of the last three 
fiscal years were as follows: 


Net Revenue % of Total Net Revenue 

2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 

FLNA $ 15,798 $ 15,549 $ 14,782 25% 25% 23% 
QFNA 2,503 2,564 2,543 4 4 4 
NAB 20,936 21,312 20,618 33 34 33 
Latin America 7,208 6,820 8,228 11 11 13 
ESSA 11,050 10,216 10,510 17 16 17 
AMENA 6,030 6,338 6,375 10 10 10 

$ 63,525 $ 62,799 $ 63,056 100% 100% 100% 


(a) Our fiscal 2016 results included an extra week of results (53 reporting week). The 53“ reporting week increased 2016 net revenue by $657 
million, including $294 million in our FLNA segment, $43 million in our QFNA segment, $300 million in our NAB segment and $20 
million in our ESSA segment. 

See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and 

geographic areas. See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors” below for a discussion of certain risks associated with 

our operations, including outside the United States. 


Frito-Lay North America 


Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, FLNA makes, markets, distributes and sells branded 
snack foods. These foods include branded dips, Cheetos cheese-flavored snacks, Doritos tortilla chips, Fritos 
corn chips, Lay’s potato chips, Ruffles potato chips, Santitas tortilla chips and Tostitos tortilla chips. FLNA’s 
branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. In addition, FLNA’s joint venture with 
Strauss Group makes, markets, distributes and sells Sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. 


Quaker Foods North America 


Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, QFNA makes, markets, distributes and sells cereals, 
rice, pasta and other branded products. QFNA’s products include Aunt Jemima mixes and syrups, Cap’n 
Crunch cereal, Life cereal, Quaker Chewy granola bars, Quaker grits, Quaker oat squares, Quaker oatmeal, 
Quaker rice cakes, Quaker simply granola and Rice-A-Roni side dishes. These branded products are sold to 
independent distributors and retailers. 


North America Beverages 


Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, NAB makes, markets and sells beverage 
concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including Aquafina, Diet 
Mountain Dew, Diet Pepsi, Gatorade, Mist Twst, Mountain Dew, Pepsi, Propel and Tropicana. NAB also, 
either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink 
tea and coffee products through joint ventures with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name) and Starbucks, 
respectively. Further, NAB manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from Dr Pepper Snapple 
Group, Inc. (DPSG), including Crush, Dr Pepper and Schweppes, and certain juice brands licensed from 
Dole Food Company, Inc. (Dole) and Ocean Spray Cranberries, Inc. (Ocean Spray). NAB operates its own 
bottling plants and distribution facilities and sells branded finished goods directly to independent distributors 
and retailers. NAB also sells concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized and independent 
bottlers, who in turn sell our branded finished goods to independent distributors and retailers in certain 
markets. 


Latin America 


Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, Latin America makes, markets, distributes and sells 
a number of snack food brands including Cheetos, Doritos, Emperador, Lay’s, Marias Gamesa, Rosquinhas 
Mabel, Ruffles, Sabritas, Saladitas and Tostitos, as well as many Quaker-branded cereals and snacks. Latin 
America also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells 
beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7UP, 
Diet Pepsi, Gatorade, H2oh!, Manzanita Sol, Mirinda, Pepsi and Toddy. These branded products are sold to 
authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. Latin America also, either independently or in 
conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an 
international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). 


See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for information about the deconsolidation of our 
Venezuelan subsidiaries, which was effective as of the end of the third quarter of 2015. 


Europe Sub-Saharan Africa 


Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, ESSA makes, markets, distributes and sells anumber 
of leading snack food brands including Cheetos, Chipita, Doritos, Lay’s, Ruffles and Walkers, as well as 
many Quaker-branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled 
affiliates. ESSA also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes 
and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 
TUP, Diet Pepsi, Mirinda, Pepsi, Pepsi Max and Tropicana. These branded products are sold to authorized 
bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. In certain markets, however, ESSA operates its own bottling 
plants and distribution facilities. ESSA also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, 
markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever 
(under the Lipton brand name). In addition, ESSA makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading 
dairy products including Agusha, Chudo and Domik v Derevne. 


Asia, Middle East and North Africa 


Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, AMENA makes, markets, distributes and sells a 
number of leading snack food brands including Cheetos, Chipsy, Crunchy, Doritos, Kurkure and Lay’s, as 
well as many Quaker branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses, as well as through 
noncontrolled affiliates. AMENA also makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain 
syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7UP, Aquafina, Mirinda, Mountain Dew, 
Pepsi and Tropicana. These branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and 
retailers. In certain markets, however, AMENA operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. 
AMENA also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells 
ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand 
name). Further, we license the Tropicana brand for use in China on co-branded juice products in connection 
with a strategic alliance with Tingyi (Cayman Islands) Holding Corp. (Tingyi). 


Our Distribution Network 


Our products are primarily brought to market through direct-store-delivery (DSD), customer warehouse and 
distributor networks. The distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and 
local trade practices. 


Direct-Store-Delivery 


We, our independent bottlers and our distributors operate DSD systems that deliver beverages, foods and 
snacks directly to retail stores where the products are merchandised by our employees or our independent 
bottlers. DSD enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. DSD is especially well-suited 


4 


to products that are restocked often and respond to in-store promotion and merchandising. 


Customer Warehouse 


Some of our products are delivered from our manufacturing plants and warehouses to customer warehouses. 
These less costly systems generally work best for products that are less fragile and perishable, and have lower 
turnover. 


Distributor Networks 


We distribute many of our products through third-party distributors. Third-party distributors are particularly 
effective when greater distribution reach can be achieved by including a wide range of products on the 
delivery vehicles. For example, our foodservice and vending business distributes beverages, foods and snacks 
to restaurants, businesses, schools and stadiums through third-party foodservice and vending distributors and 
operators. 


Our products are also available on a growing number of e-commerce websites and mobile commerce 
applications as consumer consumption patterns continue to change and retail increasingly expands online. 


Ingredients and Other Supplies 


The principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple 
juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit, oranges 
and other fruits, oats, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and 
wheat. We also use water in the manufacturing of our products. Our key packaging materials include plastic 
resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles 
and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and 
paperboard cartons. Fuel, electricity and natural gas are also important commodities for our businesses due 
to their use in our and our business partners’ facilities and the vehicles delivering our products. We employ 
specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant 
continuous shortages that would prevent us from meeting our requirements. Many of these ingredients, raw 
materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. The prices we pay for such items are subject 
to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing 
agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures. In addition, risk to our supply of certain 
raw materials is mitigated through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. When prices increase, 
we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. In addition, we continue to make investments 
to improve the sustainability and resources of our agricultural supply chain, including the development of 
our initiative to advance sustainable farming practices by our suppliers and expanding it globally. See Note 
9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our exposure to 
commodity costs. 


Our Brands and Intellectual Property Rights 


We own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including Agusha, 
Amp Energy, Aquafina, Aquafina Flavorsplash, Aunt Jemima, Cap’n Crunch, Cheetos, Chester’s, Chipsy, 
Chokis, Chudo, Cracker Jack, Crunchy, Diet Mist Twst, Diet Mountain Dew, Diet Mug, Diet Pepsi, Diet 7UP 
(outside the United States), Domik v Derevne, Doritos, Duyvis, Elma Chips, Emperador, Frito-Lay, Fritos, 
Fruktovy Sad, G2, Gamesa, Gatorade, Grandma’s, H2oh!, Imunele, Izze, J-7 Tonus, Kas, KeVita, Kurkure, 
Lay’s, Life, Lifewtr, Lifewater, Lubimy, Manzanita Sol, Marias Gamesa, Matutano, Mirinda, Miss Vickie’s, 
Mist Twst, Mother’s, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew Code Red, Mountain Dew Kickstart, Mug, Munchies, 
Naked, Near East, O.N.E., Paso de los Toros, Pasta Roni, Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Pepsi Next, Pepsi Zero Sugar, 
Propel, Quaker, Quaker Chewy, Rice-A-Roni, Rold Gold, Rosquinhas Mabel, Ruffles, Sabritas, Sakata, 
Saladitas, Sandora, Santitas, 7UP (outside the United States), 7UP Free (outside the United States), Simba, 
Smartfood, Smith’s, Snack a Jacks, SoBe, SoBe Lifewater, Sonric’s, Stacy’s, Sting, SunChips, Toddy, 


5 


Toddynho, Tostitos, Trop 50, Tropicana, Tropicana Farmstand, Tropicana Pure Premium, Tropicana Twister, 
V Water, Vesely Molochnik, Walkers and Ya. We also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in 
connection with our products in certain markets, including Dole and Ocean Spray. We also distribute Rockstar 
Energy drinks, Muscle Milk protein shakes and various DPSG brands, including Dr Pepper in certain markets, 
Crush and Schweppes. Joint ventures in which we have an ownership interest either own or have the right 
to use certain trademarks, such as Lipton, Sabra and Starbucks. Trademarks remain valid so long as they are 
used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. We have 
authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack 
food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. In addition, we license the use of our trademarks 
on merchandise that is sold at retail, which enhances brand awareness. 


We either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to certain of our products, their 
packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our 
businesses. Some of these patents are licensed to others. 


Seasonality 


Our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. For instance, our beverage sales are higher during the 
warmer months and certain food and dairy sales are higher in the cooler months. Weekly beverage and snack 
sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally 
lowest in the first quarter. However, taken as a whole, seasonality has not had a material impact on our 
consolidated financial results. 


Our Customers 


Our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, 
convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, hard discounters, e- 
commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. We normally grant our independent 
bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within 
a specific geographic area. These arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers 
for concentrate, finished goods and Aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for 
product quality. We also grant distribution rights to our independent bottlers for certain beverage products 
bearing our trademarks for specified geographic areas. 


We rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the distribution and promotion of 
our products to the consumer. For our independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include volume- 
based rebates, product placement fees, promotions and displays. For our independent bottlers, these incentives 
are referred to as bottler funding and are negotiated annually with each bottler to support a variety of trade 
and consumer programs, such as consumer incentives, advertising support, new product support, and vending 
and cooler equipment placement. Consumer incentives include coupons, pricing discounts and promotions, 
and other promotional offers. Advertising support is directed at advertising programs and supporting 
independent bottler media. New product support includes targeted consumer and retailer incentives and direct 
marketplace support, such as point-of-purchase materials, product placement fees, media and advertising. 
Vending and cooler equipment placement programs support the acquisition and placement of vending 
machines and cooler equipment. The nature and type of programs vary annually. 


Changes to the retail landscape, including increased consolidation of retail ownership, the rapid growth of 
sales through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, the integration of physical and digital 
operations among retailers, as well as the growth in hard discounters, and the current economic environment 
continue to increase the importance of major customers. In 2017, sales to Walmart Inc. (Walmart), including 
Sam’s Club (Sam’s), represented approximately 13% of our consolidated net revenue. Our top five retail 
customers represented approximately 33 % of our 2017 netrevenue in North America, with Walmart (including 


Sam’s) representing approximately 19%. These percentages include concentrate sales to our independent 
bottlers, which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. 


See “Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements” in “Our Financial Results — Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” 
in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more 
information on our independent bottlers. 


Our Competition 


Our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against 
products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, 
as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers, economy brands and other competitors. In many 
countries in which our products are sold, including the United States, The Coca-Cola Company is our primary 
beverage competitor. Other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, DPSG, 
Kellogg Company, The Kraft Heinz Company, Mondeléz International, Inc., Monster Beverage Corporation, 
Nestlé S.A., Red Bull GmbH and Snyder’s-Lance, Inc. 


Many of our food and snack products hold significant leadership positions in the food and snack industry in 
the United States and worldwide. In 2017, we and The Coca-Cola Company represented approximately 23% 
and 20%, respectively, of the U.S. liquid refreshment beverage category by estimated retail sales in measured 
channels, according to Information Resources, Inc. However, The Coca-Cola Company has significant 
carbonated soft drink (CSD) share advantage in many markets outside the United States. 


Our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition and loyalty, 
taste, price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional 
activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer 
preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness and the continued 
acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of distributing and purchasing products. Success in this 
competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, effective introduction of 
new products and reformulations of existing products, the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, 
marketing programs, product packaging, pricing, increased efficiency in production techniques, new vending 
and dispensing equipment and brand and trademark development and protection. We believe that the strength 
of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our 
distribution network, allows us to compete effectively. 


Research and Development 


We engage in a variety of research and development activities and invest in innovation globally with the goal 
of meeting changing consumer demands and preferences and accelerating sustainable growth. These activities 
principally involve: development of new ingredients, flavors and products; reformulation and improvement 
in the quality and appeal of existing products; improvement and modernization of manufacturing processes, 
including cost reduction; improvements in product quality, safety and integrity; development of, and 
improvements in, dispensing equipment, packaging technology, package design and portion sizes; efforts 
focused on identifying opportunities to transform, grow and broaden our product portfolio, including by 
developing products with improved nutrition profiles that reduce added sugars, sodium or saturated fat, 
including through the use of sweetener alternatives and flavor modifiers and innovation in existing sweeteners, 
and by offering more products with positive nutrition including whole grains, fruits and vegetables, dairy, 
protein and hydration; investments in building our capabilities to support our global e-commerce business; 
and improvements in energy efficiency and efforts focused on reducing our impact on the environment. Our 
research centers are located around the world, including in Brazil, China, India, Ireland, Mexico, Russia, the 
United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and the United States, and leverage nutrition science, food 


science, engineering and consumer insights to meet our strategy to continue to develop nutritious and 
convenient beverages, foods and snacks. 


In 2017, we continued to refine our beverage, food and snack portfolio to meet changing consumer demands 
by reducing added sugars in many of our beverages and sodium and saturated fat in many of our foods and 
snacks, and by developing a broader portfolio of product choices, including: continuing to expand our 
beverage options that contain no high-fructose corn syrup and that are made with natural flavors; expanding 
our state-of-the-art food and beverage healthy vending initiative to increase the availability of convenient, 
affordable and enjoyable nutrition; further expanding our portfolio of nutritious products by building on our 
important nutrition platforms and brands — Quaker (grains), Tropicana (juices, lemonades, fruit and vegetable 
drinks), Gatorade (sports nutrition for athletes), Naked Juice (cold-pressed juices and smoothies) and KeVita 
(probiotics, tonics and fermented teas); further expanding our whole grain products globally; and further 
expanding our portfolio of nutritious products in growing categories, such as dairy, hummus and other 
refrigerated dips, and baked grain snacks. In addition, we continued to make investments to reduce our impact 
on the environment, including: efforts to conserve raw materials and energy, such as by working to achieve 
reductions in greenhouse gas emissions across our global businesses, by helping to protect and conserve 
global water supply especially in high-water-risk locations (including replenishing watersheds that source 
our operations in high-water-risk locations and promoting the efficient use of water use in our agricultural 
supply chain), and by incorporating into our operations, improvements in the sustainability and resources of 
our agricultural supply chain; efforts to reduce waste generated by our operations and disposed of in landfills; 
efforts to support increased packaging recovery and recycling rates; efforts to increase energy efficiency, 
including the increased use of renewable energy and resources; efforts to support sustainable agriculture by 
expanding best practices with our growers and suppliers; and efforts to optimize packaging technology and 
design to make our packaging increasingly recoverable or recyclable with lower environmental impact, 
including continuing to invest in developing compostable and biodegradable packaging. 


Research and development costs were $737 million, $760 million and $754 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, 
respectively, and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses. Consumer research is 
excluded from such research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. 


Regulatory Matters 


The conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, 
marketing, labeling, content, quality, safety, transportation, disposal, recycling and use of our products, as 
well as our occupational health and safety practices and protection of personal information, are subject to 
various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United 
States, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in the more than 
200 other countries and territories in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. It is 
our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. 


The U.S. laws and regulations that we are subject to include: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and 
various state laws governing food safety; the Food Safety Modernization Act; the Occupational Safety and 
Health Act; various federal, state and local environmental protection laws, as discussed below; the Federal 
Motor Carrier Safety Act; the Federal Trade Commission Act; the Lanham Act; various federal and state 
laws and regulations governing competition and trade practices; various federal and state laws and regulations 
governing our employment practices, including those related to equal employment opportunity, such as the 
Equal Employment Opportunity Act and the National Labor Relations Act and those related to overtime 
compensation, such as the Fair Labor Standards Act; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations; laws 
regulating the sale of certain of our products in schools; and laws relating to the payment of taxes. We are 
also required to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export 
Enhancement Act. We are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including state 
consumer protection laws such as Proposition 65 in California, which requires that a specific warning appear 


8 


on any product that contains a substance listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer 
or birth defects, unless the amount of such substance in the product is below a safe harbor level. 


We are also subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside the United States, including 
but not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, occupational health and safety, competition, 
anti-corruption and data privacy. In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special 
importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption 
laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in- 
house and outside counsel and other experts, to guide our businesses in complying with the laws and 
regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. 


In addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed, or are considering imposing, new or increased taxes 
on the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes 
of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products. These taxes vary in scope and form: 
some apply to all beverages, including non-caloric beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a 
caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). Similarly, some measures apply a single tax rate per liquid ounce while others 
apply a graduated tax rate depending upon the amount of added sugar in the beverage and some apply a flat 
tax rate on beverages containing a particular substance or ingredient. 


In addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed, or are considering imposing, product labeling or warning 
requirements or other limitations on the marketing or sale of certain of our products as a result of ingredients 
or substances contained in such products or the audience to whom products are marketed. These types of 
provisions have required that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns 
consumers to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products. It is possible 
that similar or more restrictive requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. Regulators may also 
restrict consumers’ ability to use benefit programs, such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program 
in the United States, to purchase certain beverages and foods. In addition, legislation has been enacted in 
certain U.S. states and in certain other countries where our products are sold that requires collection and 
recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers, unless 
a deposit, ecotax or other fee is charged. It is possible that similar or more restrictive requirements may be 
proposed or enacted in the future. 


We are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the United States and in foreign countries in 
which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater discharge and 
air emissions. In the United States, our facilities must comply with the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, 
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation 
and Recovery Act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, storage, release and disposal of wastes 
generated on-site and sent to third-party owned and operated off-site licensed facilities and our facilities 
outside the United States must comply with similar laws and regulations. In addition, continuing concern 
over climate change may result in new or increased legal and regulatory requirements (in or outside of the 
United States) to reduce or mitigate the potential effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional 
costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. Our policy is to abide by all applicable 
environmental laws and regulations, and we have internal programs in place with respect to our global 
environmental compliance. We have made, and plan to continue making, necessary expenditures for 
compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. While these expenditures have not had a 
material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date, changes in environmental 
compliance requirements, and any expenditures necessary to comply with such requirements, could adversely 
affect our financial performance. In addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation 
obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification 
obligations in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of 
businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. While these environmental remediation and indemnification 


9 


obligations cannot be predicted with certainty, such obligations have not had, and are not expected to have, 
a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. 


In addition to the discussion in this section, see also “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” 


Employees 


As of December 30, 2017, we and our consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 263,000 people 
worldwide, including approximately 113,000 people within the United States. In certain countries, our 
employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. We or our subsidiaries are party to numerous collective 
bargaining agreements. We expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements 
on satisfactory terms when they expire. We believe that relations with our employees are generally good. 


Available Information 


We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with 
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials that we 
file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. 
Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800- 
SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information 
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec. gov. 


Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy 
statements and amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are also available free of charge on our Internet 
site at http://(www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed 
with or furnished to the SEC. 


Investors should note that we currently announce material information to our investors and others using 
filings with the SEC, press releases, public conference calls, webcasts or our corporate website 
(www.pepsico.com), including news and announcements regarding our financial performance, key personnel, 
our brands and our business strategy. Information that we post on our corporate website could be deemed 
material to investors. We encourage investors, the media, our customers, consumers, business partners and 
others interested in us to review the information we post on these channels. We may from time to time update 
the list of channels we will use to communicate information that could be deemed material and will post 
information about any such change on www.pepsico.com. The information on our website is not, and shall 
not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the SEC. 


Item 1A. Risk Factors. 


You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information set forth in this 
Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the factors described below could occur or continue to occur and could 
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our 
publicly traded securities. The risks below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties 
not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may occur or become material in the 
future and may also adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations or the 
price of our publicly traded securities. Therefore, historical operating results, financial and business 
performance, events and trends may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results, financial and 
business performance, events or trends. 


10 


Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability 
on our part to innovate, market or distribute our products effectively, and any significant reduction in 
demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


We are a global food and beverage company operating in highly competitive categories and markets. To 
generate revenues and profits, we rely on continued demand for our products and therefore must understand 
our customers and consumers and sell products that appeal to them in the sales channel in which they prefer 
to shop or browse for such products. In general, changes in consumption in our product categories or consumer 
demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. Demand for our products depends in part on 
our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to shifts in consumer trends and preferences, including 
increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are concerned with: health and wellness 
(including products that have less added sugars, sodium and saturated fat); convenience (including responding 
to changes in in-home and on-the-go consumption patterns and methods of distribution of our products to 
customers and consumers); or the location of origin or source of the ingredients and products (including the 
environmental impact related to the production of our products). 


Consumer preferences have been evolving, and are expected to continue to evolve, due to a variety of factors, 
including: changes in consumer demographics, including the aging of the general population and the 
emergence of the millennial and younger generations who have differing spending and consumption habits; 
consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the nutrition profile of certain of our products, including the 
presence of added sugar, sodium and saturated fat in certain of our products; growing demand for organic or 
locally sourced ingredients, or consumer concerns or perceptions (whether or not valid) regarding the health 
effects of ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, such as 4-Mel, acrylamide, artificial 
flavors and colors, artificial sweeteners, aspartame, caffeine, furfuryl alcohol, high-fructose corn syrup, 
partially hydrolyzed oils, saturated fat, sodium, sugar, trans fats or other product ingredients, substances or 
attributes, including genetically engineered ingredients; taxes or other restrictions, including labeling 
requirements, imposed on our products; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding packaging materials, 
including their environmental impact; changes in package or portion size; changes in social trends that impact 
travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns; changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; the 
continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of purchasing products; negative publicity (whether 
or not valid) resulting from regulatory actions, litigation against us or other companies in our industry or 
negative or inaccurate posts or comments in the media, including social media, about us, our employees, our 
products or advertising campaigns and marketing programs; perception of social media posts or other 
information disseminated by us or our employees and agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint 
venture partners or other third parties; perception of our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, 
distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or the business practices of such parties; product 
boycotts; or a downturn in economic conditions. Any of these factors may reduce consumers’ willingness to 
purchase our products and any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in 
reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position and could adversely 
affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. 


Demand for our products is also dependent in part on product quality, product and marketing innovation and 
production and distribution, including our ability to: maintain a robust pipeline of new products; improve 
the quality of existing products; extend our portfolio of products in growing markets and categories; respond 
to cultural differences and regional consumer preferences (whether through developing or acquiring new 
products that are responsive to such preferences); monitor and adjust our use of ingredients (including to 
respond to applicable regulations); develop or acquire a broader portfolio of product choices, including by 
continuing to increase non-carbonated beverage offerings and other alternatives to traditional carbonated 
beverage offerings and, in some cases, reformulations of our traditional carbonated beverage offerings; 
develop sweetener alternatives and innovation; improve the production, packaging and distribution of our 


11 


products; respond to competitive product and pricing pressures and changes in distribution channels, including 
in the rapidly growing e-commerce channel; and implement effective advertising campaigns and marketing 
programs, including successfully adapting to a rapidly changing media environment through the use of social 
media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. 


Although we devote significant resources to the items mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our 
continued ability to develop, launch, maintain or distribute successful new products or variants of existing 
products in a timely manner (including to correctly anticipate or effectively react to changes in consumer 
preferences) or to develop and effectively execute advertising and marketing campaigns that appeal to 
customers and consumers. Our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or 
successfully launch new products or variants of existing products or effectively distribute our products could 
decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of our existing brands 
and may result in inventory write-offs and other costs that could adversely affect our business, financial 
condition or results of operations. 


Changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business 
operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


The conduct of our business is subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local 
governmental agencies in the United States, as well as government entities and agencies outside the United 
States, including laws and regulations relating to the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, 
advertising, marketing, labeling, content, quality, safety, transportation, disposal, recycling and use of our 
products, as well as our employment and occupational health and safety practices and protection of personal 
information. In addition, in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance 
to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. Many 
of these laws and regulations have differing or conflicting legal standards across the various markets where 
our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold and, in certain markets, such as developing and 
emerging markets, may be less developed or certain. For example, products containing genetically engineered 
ingredients are subject to varying regulations and restrictions in the jurisdictions in which our products are 
made, manufactured, distributed or sold. In addition, these laws and regulations and related interpretations 
may change, sometimes dramatically and unexpectedly, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, 
economic or social events. Such changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to product 
labeling, advertising and marketing practices; laws and treaties related to international trade, including laws 
regarding the import or export of our products or ingredients used in our products and tariffs; laws and 
programs restricting the sale and advertising of certain of our products, including restrictions on the audience 
to whom products are marketed; laws and programs aimed at reducing, restricting or eliminating ingredients 
or substances in, or attributes of, certain of our products; laws and programs aimed at discouraging the 
consumption or altering the package or portion size of certain of our products, including laws imposing 
restrictions on the use of government funds or programs, such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance 
Program (included within the Farm Bill in the United States), to purchase certain of our products; increased 
regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving product claims and concerns (whether or not valid) 
regarding the effects on health of ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, certain of our products, including 
without limitation those found in energy drinks; state consumer protection laws; laws regulating the protection 
of personal information; cyber-security regulations; regulatory initiatives, including the imposition or 
proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other measures impacting the manufacture, distribution or 
sale of our products; accounting rules and interpretations; employment laws; privacy laws; laws regulating 
the price we may charge for our products; laws regulating water rights and access to and use of water or 
utilities; environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water treatment and discharge of 
wastewater and air emissions and laws relating to the disposal, recovery or recycling of our products and 
their packaging. Changes in regulatory requirements, and competing regulations and standards, where our 


12 


products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, may result in higher compliance costs, capital 
expenditures and higher production costs, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial 
condition or results of operations. 


The imposition by any jurisdiction in the United States or outside the United States of new laws, regulations 
or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, including taxes, 
labeling, product or production requirements or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale or advertisement 
of certain of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities 
used in the production of our products, may further alter the way in which we do business and, therefore, 
may continue to increase our costs or liabilities or reduce demand for our products, which could adversely 
affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If one jurisdiction imposes or proposes to 
impose new requirements or restrictions, other jurisdictions may follow and the requirements or restrictions, 
or proposed requirements or restrictions, may also result in adverse publicity (whether or not valid). For 
example, if one jurisdiction imposes a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages or foods, or imposes a specific 
labeling or warning requirement, other jurisdictions may impose similar or other measures that impact the 
manufacture, distribution or sale of our products. The foregoing may result in decreased demand for our 
products, adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of ingredients 
or substances in our products (whether or not valid). 


In addition, studies (whether or not scientifically valid) are underway by third parties purporting to assess 
the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, 
such as 4-Mel, acrylamide, caffeine, furfuryl alcohol, added sugars, sodium and saturated fat. Third parties 
have also published documents or studies claiming (whether or not valid) that taxes can address consumer 
consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and other foods high in sugar, sodium or saturated fat. If, as a 
result of these studies and documents or otherwise, there is an increase in consumer concerns (whether or 
not valid) about the health implications of consumption of our products, an increase in the number of 
jurisdictions that impose taxes on our products, or an increase in new labeling, product or production 
requirements or other restrictions on the manufacturing, sale or display of our products, demand for our 
products could decline, or we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our 
products, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory 
compliance, our employees, suppliers, or other third parties with whom we do business could take actions, 
intentional or not, that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations or could fail 
to maintain required documentation sufficient to evidence our compliance with applicable laws or regulations. 
Violations of laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, 
penalties, disgorgement of profits or activity restrictions, any of which could result in adverse publicity or 
affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, regulatory authorities under 
whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, 
seizure of products or assets or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on the sales of products 
in our portfolio or could lead to damage to our reputation. 


In addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations 
arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort 
and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual 
obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. Due to regulatory complexities, 
uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties 
of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ 
materially from the costs we have estimated. We cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters 


13 


will not exceed our estimates or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or 
results of operations. 


The imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes aimed at our products could adversely 
affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


Certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either imposed, 
or are considering imposing, new or increased taxes on the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products, 
ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production 
of our products. These taxes vary in scope and form: some apply to all beverages, including non-caloric 
beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). Similarly, some 
measures apply a single tax rate per liquid ounce while others apply a graduated tax rate depending upon the 
amount of added sugar in the beverage and some apply a flat tax rate on beverages containing a particular 
substance or ingredient. For example, effective January 2018, the City of Seattle, Washington in the United 
States enacted a per-ounce surcharge on all sugar-sweetened beverages. By contrast, the United Kingdom 
enacted a graduated tax, effective April 2018, in which the per-ounce tax rate is tied to the amount of added 
sugar present in the beverage: the higher the amount of added sugar, the higher the per-ounce tax rate and 
Saudi Arabia enacted, effective June 2017, a flat tax rate of 50% on the retail price of carbonated soft drinks. 
These tax measures, whatever their scope or form, could increase the cost of our products, reduce overall 
consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether based on scientific fact or not) or leave 
consumers with the perception (whether or not valid) that our products do not meet their health and wellness 
needs. Such factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


Significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of our 
products may reduce demand for such products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition 
or results of operations. 


Certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either imposed, 
or are considering imposing, product labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or 
sale of certain of our products as a result of ingredients or substances contained in such products. These types 
of provisions have required that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or 
warns consumers to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products. For 
example, in California in the United States, Proposition 65 requires a specific warning on or relating to any 
product that contains a substance listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or 
birth defects or other reproductive harm, unless the level of such substance in the product is below a safe 
harbor level established by the State of California. 


In addition, a number of jurisdictions, both in and outside the United States, have imposed or are considering 
imposing labeling requirements, including color-coded labeling of certain food and beverage products where 
colors such as red, yellow and green are used to indicate various levels of a particular ingredient, such as 
sugar, sodium or saturated fat. The imposition or proposed imposition of additional product labeling or 
warning requirements could reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether 
based on scientific fact or not) or leave consumers with the perception (whether or not valid) that our products 
do not meet their health and wellness needs. Such factors could adversely affect our business, financial 
condition or results of operations. 


Changes in laws and regulations relating to packaging or disposal of our products could continue to 
increase our costs and reduce demand for our products or otherwise have an adverse impact on our 
business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. 


Certain of our products are sold in packaging designed to be recoverable for recycling but not all packaging 


14 


is recovered, whether due to low value, lack of infrastructure or otherwise. The United States and many other 
jurisdictions have imposed or are considering imposing regulations or policies designed to encourage 
recycling, including requiring that deposits or certain taxes or fees be charged in connection with the sale, 
distribution, marketing and use of certain packaging; extended producer responsibility policies which makes 
brand owners responsible for the costs of recycling products after consumers have used them; and adopting 
or extending product stewardship policies which could require brand owners to plan for and, if necessary, 
pay for the recycling or disposal of packaging after consumers have used them. In addition, these jurisdictions 
may elect to impose regulations or policies to ban the use of certain packaging, such as plastic beverage 
bottles. Compliance with these laws and regulations could continue to affect our costs or require changes in 
our distribution model, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 
Further, our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to 
act, responsibly with respect to packaging or disposal of our products. 


Our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if we are unable to compete 
effectively. 


Our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against 
products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, 
as well as regional, local, and private label manufacturers, economy brands and other competitors. In many 
countries in which our products are sold, including the United States, The Coca-Cola Company is our primary 
beverage competitor. Other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, DPSG, 
Kellogg Company, The Kraft Heinz Company, Mondeléz International, Inc., Monster Beverage Corporation, 
Nestlé S.A., Red Bull GmbH and Snyder’s-Lance, Inc. 


Our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition and loyalty, taste, 
price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, 
packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences 
and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness and the continued acceleration of e- 
commerce and other methods of distributing and purchasing products. If we are unable to effectively promote 
our existing products or introduce new products, if our advertising or marketing campaigns are not effective 
or if we are otherwise unable to effectively respond to pricing pressure or compete effectively (including in 
distributing our products effectively and cost efficiently through all existing and emerging channels of trade, 
including through e-commerce and hard discounters), we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or category 
share or we may need to increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, which may adversely affect our 
business, financial condition or results of operations. 


Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of political 
conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. 


Political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold may 
be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
The results of elections, referendums or other political conditions in the markets in which our products are 
made, manufactured, distributed or sold could create uncertainty regarding how existing laws and regulations 
may change, including with respect to sanctions, climate change regulation, taxes, the movement of goods, 
services and people between countries and other matters, and could result in exchange rate fluctuation, 
volatility in global stock markets and global economic uncertainty. For example, there is continued uncertainty 
surrounding the United Kingdom’s pending withdrawal from the European Union, including how the United 
Kingdom will interact with other European Union countries following its departure. Any changes in, or the 
imposition of new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations due to elections, 


15 


referendums or other political conditions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial conditions 
and results of operations. 


Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to 
grow our business in developing and emerging markets. 


Our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in developing and emerging markets, including 
Mexico, Russia, the Middle East, Brazil, China and India. However, there can be no assurance that our existing 
products, variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, distribute or sell will 
be accepted or be successful in any particular developing or emerging market, due to local or global 
competition, product price, cultural differences, consumer preferences or otherwise. The following factors 
could reduce demand for our products or otherwise impede the growth of our business in developing and 
emerging markets: unstable economic, political or social conditions; acts of war, terrorist acts, and civil 
unrest; increased competition; volatility in the economic growth of certain of these markets and the related 
impact on developed countries who export to these markets; volatile oil prices and the impact on the local 
economy in certain of these markets; our inability to acquire businesses, form strategic business alliances or 
to make necessary infrastructure investments; our inability to complete divestitures or refranchisings; 
imposition of new or increased labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions; imposition 
of new or increased sanctions against, or other regulations restricting contact with, certain countries in these 
markets, or imposition of new or increased sanctions against U.S. multinational corporations operating in 
these markets; actions, such as removing our products from shelves, taken by retailers in response to U.S. 
trade sanctions or other governmental action or policy; foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our 
assets or the assets of our suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; 
imposition of taxes on our products or the ingredients or substances used in our products; government- 
mandated closure, or threatened closure, of our operations or the operations of our suppliers, bottlers, 
distributors, joint venture partners, customers or other third parties; restrictions on the import or export of 
our products or ingredients or substances used in our products; regulations relating to the repatriation of funds 
currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the United States; highly-inflationary economies, devaluation or 
fluctuation, such as the devaluation of the Egyptian pound, Turkish lira, Pound sterling, Argentine peso and 
the Mexican peso, or demonetization of currency; regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign 
countries, currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions, which result in significant cash balances 
in foreign countries, from time to time, or could significantly affect our ability to effectively manage our 
operations in certain of these markets and could result in the deconsolidation of such businesses; the lack of 
well-established or reliable legal systems; increased costs of doing business due to compliance with complex 
foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act; and 
adverse consequences, such as the assessment of fines or penalties, for any failure to comply with these laws 
and regulations. If we are unable to expand our businesses in developing and emerging markets, effectively 
operate, or manage the risks associated with operating, in these markets, or achieve the return on capital we 
expect from our investments in these markets, our reputation, business, financial condition or results of 
operations could be adversely affected. 


Uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial 
condition or results of operations. 


Many of the countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed and sold have experienced 
and may, from time to time, continue to experience uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions, such as 
recessions or economic slowdowns. Our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by uncertain 
or unfavorable economic conditions in the United States and globally, including: adverse changes in interest 
rates, tax laws or tax rates; volatile commodity markets, including speculative influences; highly-inflationary 


16 


economies, devaluation, fluctuation or demonetization; contraction in the availability of credit in the 
marketplace due to legislation or economic conditions; the effects of government initiatives, including 
demonetization, austerity or stimulus measures to manage economic conditions and any changes to or 
cessation of such initiatives; the effects of any default by or deterioration in the creditworthiness of the 
countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold or of countries that may then 
impact countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold; reduced demand for our 
products resulting from volatility in general global economic conditions or a shift in consumer preferences 
for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other lower-cost products, 
or to less profitable sales channels; or a decrease in the fair value of pension or post-retirement assets that 
could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension or post-retirement 
plans. In addition, we cannot predict how current or future economic conditions will affect our customers, 
consumers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties and any negative 
impact on any of the foregoing may also have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or 
results of operations. 


In addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including U.S. and 
non-U.S. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks and other financial institutions, may be 
exposed to aratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity events, default or similar risks as a result of unfavorable 
economic conditions, changing regulatory requirements or other factors beyond our control. A ratings 
downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a major financial institution, or 
changes in the regulatory environment, may limit the ability or willingness of financial institutions to enter 
into financial transactions with us, including to provide banking or related cash management services, or to 
extend credit on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all; may leave us with reduced borrowing capacity 
or exposed to certain currencies or price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials, including 
through our use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, 
including swaps and futures; or may result in a decline in the market value of our investments in debt securities, 
which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Similar 
risks exist with respect to our customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors and joint venture partners and could 
result in their inability to obtain credit to purchase our products or to finance the manufacture and distribution 
of our products resulting in canceled orders and/or product delays, which could also have an adverse impact 
on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. 


Our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against, or 
effectively respond to, cyberattacks or other cyber incidents or if our information systems, or those of our 
customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third 
parties, are otherwise disrupted. 


We depend on information systems and technology, some of which are provided by third parties, including 
public websites and cloud-based services, for many activities important to our business, including: to interface 
with our customers and consumers; to engage in marketing activities; to enable and improve the effectiveness 
of our operations; to order and manage materials from suppliers; to manage inventory; to manage our facilities; 
to conduct research and development; to maintain accurate financial records; to achieve operational 
efficiencies; to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements; to collect and store 
sensitive data and confidential information; to communicate electronically among our global operations and 
with our employees and the employees of our customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, 
distributors, joint venture partners and other third parties; and to communicate with our investors. 


As with other global companies, we are regularly subject to cyberattacks. Cyberattacks and other cyber 
incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature, are becoming more sophisticated 
and are being made by groups and individuals (including criminal hackers, hacktivists, state-sponsored 


17 


institutions, terrorist organizations and individuals or groups participating in organized crime) with a wide 
range of expertise and motives (including monetization of corporate, payment or other internal or personal 
data, theft of trade secrets and intellectual property for competitive advantage and leverage for political, 
social, economic and environmental reasons). Such cyberattacks and cyber incidents can take many forms 
including cyber extortion, denial of service, social engineering, such as impersonation attempts to fraudulently 
induce employees or others to disclose information or unwittingly provide access to systems or data, 
introduction of viruses or malware, such as ransomware through phishing emails, website defacement or 
theft of passwords and other credentials. Although we may incur significant costs in protecting against or 
remediating cyberattacks or other cyber incidents, no cyberattack or other cyber incident has, to our 
knowledge, had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date. 


If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and maintain our information 
technology infrastructure, including monitoring networks and systems, upgrading our security policies and 
the skills and training of our employees, and requiring our third-party service providers, customers, suppliers, 
bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties to do the same, if 
we or they fail to timely identify or appropriately respond to cyberattacks or other cyber incidents, or if our 
or their information systems are damaged, compromised, destroyed or shut down (whether as a result of 
natural disasters, fires, power outages, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events, network outages, 
software, equipment or telecommunications failures, technology development defects, user errors, or from 
deliberate cyberattacks such as malicious or disruptive software, denial of service attacks, malicious social 
engineering, hackers or otherwise), our business could be disrupted and we could, among other things, be 
subject to: transaction errors; processing inefficiencies; the loss of, or failure to attract, new customers and 
consumers; lost revenues resulting from the disruption or shutdown of computer systems or other information 
technology systems at our offices, plants, warehouses, distribution centers or other facilities, or the loss of a 
competitive advantage due to the unauthorized use, acquisition or disclosure of, or access to, confidential 
information; the incurrence of costs to restore data and to safeguard against future extortion attempts; the 
loss of, or damage to, intellectual property or trade secrets, including the loss or unauthorized disclosure of 
sensitive data or other assets; alteration, corruption or loss of accounting, financial or other data on which 
we rely for financial reporting and other purposes, which could cause delays in our financial reporting; damage 
to our reputation or brands; damage to employee, customer and consumer relations; litigation; regulatory 
enforcement actions or fines; unauthorized disclosure of confidential personal information of our employees, 
customers or consumers; the loss of information and/or supply chain disruption resulting from the failure of 
security patches to be developed and installed on a timely basis; violation of data privacy, security or other 
laws and regulations; and remediation costs. 


Further, our information systems and the information stored therein could be compromised by, and we could 
experience similar adverse consequences due to, unauthorized outside parties accessing or extracting sensitive 
data or confidential information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes (or demonstrating 
an ability to do so) or by inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, agents or third parties. We 
continue to devote significant resources to network security, backup and disaster recovery, and other security 
measures, including training, to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide 
absolute security or guarantee that we will be successful in preventing or responding to every such breach 
or disruption. In addition, due to the constantly evolving nature of these security threats, the form and impact 
of any future incident cannot be predicted. 


Similar risks exist with respect to the cloud-based service providers and other third-party vendors that we 
rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including 
payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and 
systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors. The need to coordinate 
with various third-party vendors may complicate our efforts to resolve any issues that may arise. As a result, 


18 


we are subject to the risk that the activities associated with our third-party vendors may adversely affect our 
business even if the attack or breach does not directly impact our systems or information. Moreover, our 
increased use of mobile and cloud technologies could heighten these and other operational risks, as certain 
aspects of the security of such technologies may be complex, unpredictable or beyond our control. 


While we currently maintain insurance coverage that, subject to its terms and conditions, is intended to 
address costs associated with certain aspects of cyber incidents, network failures and data privacy-related 
concerns, this insurance coverage may not, depending on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding 
an incident, cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise from an incident, or the damage to our 
reputation or brands that may result from an incident. 


Our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, 
disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials, energy, water and other supplies. 


We and our business partners use various raw materials, energy, water and other supplies in our business. 
The principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple 
juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit, oranges 
and other fruits, oats, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and 
wheat. We also use water in the manufacturing of our products. Our key packaging materials include plastic 
resins, including PET and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used 
for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. Fuel, 
electricity and natural gas are also important commodities for our businesses due to their use in our and our 
business partners’ facilities and the vehicles delivering our products. 


Some of these raw materials and supplies are sourced from countries experiencing civil unrest, political 
instability or unfavorable economic conditions, and some are available from a limited number of suppliers 
or a sole supplier or are in short supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. We cannot assure that we will 
be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers or that our contingency 
plans, including development of ingredients, materials or supplies to replace ingredients, materials or supplies 
sourced from such suppliers, will be effective in preventing disruptions that may arise from shortages or 
discontinuation of any ingredient that is sourced from such suppliers. In addition, increasing focus on climate 
change, deforestation, water, animal welfare and human rights concerns and other risks associated with the 
global food system may lead to increased activism focusing on consumer goods companies, governmental 
intervention and consumer response, and could adversely affect our or our suppliers’ reputation and business 
and our ability to procure the materials we need to operate our business. The raw materials and energy, 
including fuel, that we use for the manufacturing, production and distribution of our products are largely 
commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by many factors, 
including changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions (including any potential effects of climate 
change), fire, natural disasters (such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flooding), disease or pests, 
agricultural uncertainty, health epidemics or pandemics, governmental incentives and controls (including 
import/export restrictions), political uncertainties, acts of terrorism, governmental instability or currency 
exchange rates. Shortage of some of these raw materials and other supplies, sustained interruption in their 
supply or an increase in their costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of 
operations. Many of our ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. The 
prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed- 
price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and 
futures. If commodity price changes result in unexpected or significant increases in raw materials and energy 
costs, we may be unwilling or unable to increase our product prices or unable to effectively hedge against 
commodity price increases to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue, margins 
and operating results. In addition, certain of the derivatives used to hedge price risk do not qualify for hedge 


19 


accounting treatment and, therefore, can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period 
due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. 


Water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. The lack of available water of acceptable quality and 
increasing pressure to conserve water in areas of scarcity and stress may lead to: supply chain disruption; 
adverse effects on our operations; higher compliance costs; capital expenditures (including additional 
investments in the development of technologies to enhance water efficiency and reduce water consumption); 
higher production costs; the cessation of operations at, or relocation of, our facilities or the facilities of our 
suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; or damage 
to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


Business disruptions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of 
operations. 


Our ability, and that of our suppliers and other third parties, including our bottlers, contract manufacturers, 
joint venture partners, distributors and customers, to make, manufacture, transport, distribute and sell products 
in our portfolio is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their operations due to any of the 
following factors could impair the ability to make, manufacture, transport, distribute or sell products in our 
portfolio: adverse weather conditions (including any potential effects of climate change) or natural disasters, 
such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flooding; government action; economic or political uncertainties 
or instability in countries in which such products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, which may 
also affect our ability to protect the security of our assets and employees; fire; terrorism; outbreak or escalation 
of armed hostilities; food safety warnings or recalls, whether related to products in our portfolio or otherwise; 
health epidemics or pandemics; supply and commodity shortages; unplanned delays or unexpected problems 
associated with repairs or enhancements of facilities in which such products are made, manufactured, 
distributed or sold; loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites; cyber incidents, including the disruption 
or shutdown of computer systems or other information technology systems at our offices, plants, warehouses, 
distribution centers or other facilities or those of our suppliers and other third parties who make, manufacture, 
transport, distribute and sell products in our portfolio; industrial accidents or other occupational health and 
safety issues; telecommunications failures; power or water shortages; strikes and other labor disputes; or 
other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and other third parties. Failure to take adequate 
steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if 
they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require 
additional resources to restore operations. 


Product contamination or tampering or issues or concerns with respect to product quality, safety and 
integrity could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. 


Product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and 
integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations 
(whether or not valid) of product quality issues, mislabeling, misbranding, spoilage, allergens, adulteration 
or contamination with respect to products in our portfolio may reduce demand for such products, and cause 
production and delivery disruptions or increase costs, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, 
financial condition or results of operations. If any of the products in our portfolio are mislabeled or become 
unfit for consumption or cause injury, illness or death, or if appropriate resources are not devoted to product 
quality and safety (particularly as we expand our portfolio into new categories) or to comply with changing 
food safety requirements, we could decide to, or be required to, recall products in our portfolio and/or we 
may be subject to liability or government action, which could result in payment of damages or fines, cause 
certain products in our portfolio to be unavailable for a period of time, result in destruction of product 
inventory, or result in adverse publicity (whether or not valid), which could reduce consumer demand and 


20 


brand equity. Moreover, even if allegations of product contamination or tampering or suggestions that our 
products were not fit for consumption are meritless, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against us 
or products in our portfolio or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. Our business could 
also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in product quality, safety and integrity generally, 
even if such loss of confidence is unrelated to products in our portfolio. Any of the foregoing could adversely 
affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if we do not have 
adequate insurance, if we do not have enforceable indemnification from suppliers, bottlers, contract 
manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or if indemnification is not available, 
the liability relating to such product claims or disruption as a result of recall efforts could materially adversely 
affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


Any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or 
results of operations. 


We are a leading global beverage, food and snack company with brands that are respected household names 
throughout the world. Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. Our 
reputation or brand image could be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity 
(whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental practices 
for all of our operations and activities, including with respect to human rights, child labor laws and workplace 
conditions and safety, or failure to require our suppliers or other third parties to do so; the failure to achieve 
our goals of reducing added sugars, sodium and saturated fat in certain of our products and of growing our 
portfolio of product choices; the failure to achieve our other sustainability goals or to be perceived as 
appropriately addressing matters of social responsibility; the failure to protect our intellectual property, 
including in the event our brands are used without our authorization; health concerns (whether or not valid) 
about our products or particular ingredients or substances in, or attributes of, our products, including concerns 
regarding whether certain of our products contribute to obesity; the imposition or proposed imposition of 
new or increased taxes, labeling requirements or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale, display or 
advertising of our products; any failure to comply, or perception of a failure to comply, with our policies and 
goals, including those regarding advertising to children and reducing calorie consumption from sugar- 
sweetened beverages; our research and development efforts; the recall (voluntary or otherwise) of any products 
in our portfolio; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, water, energy 
use and waste management; any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the 
environment, or perception of a failure to act responsibly with respect to water use and the environment; any 
failure to achieve our goals with respect to human rights throughout our value chain; the practices of our 
employees, agents, customers, distributors, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint venture partners 
or other third parties (including others in our industry) with respect to any of the foregoing, actual or perceived; 
consumer perception of our industry; consumer perception of our advertising campaigns, sponsorship 
arrangements or marketing programs; consumer perception of our use of social media; consumer perception 
of statements made by us, our employees and executives, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, 
joint venture partners or other third parties (including others in our industry); or our responses or the responses 
of others in our industry to any of the foregoing. 


In addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, 
without limitation, anti-corruption laws, competition laws and tax laws and regulations of the jurisdictions 
in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. In the event that we or our employees 
engage in or are believed to have engaged in improper activities, we may be subject to regulatory proceedings, 
including enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences, which may cause us to suffer 
damage to our reputation in the United States or abroad. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, 
to maintain an effective system of internal control or to provide accurate and timely financial information 
could also hurt our reputation. In addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and demand 


21 


for water continues to rise. Our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or 
are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use. 


Further, the popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed 
and accessibility of information dissemination. As a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about 
us, our products, policies, practices, advertising campaigns and marketing programs or sponsorship 
arrangements; our use of social media or of posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, 
agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; consumer 
perception of any of the foregoing, or failure by us to respond effectively to any of the foregoing, may also 
generate adverse publicity (whether or not valid) that could damage our reputation. 


Damage to our reputation or brand image or loss of consumer confidence in our products or employees for 
any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could adversely affect 
our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild 
our reputation. 


Failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, 
or to complete or effectively manage divestitures or refranchisings, could adversely affect our business, 
financial condition or results of operations. 


We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, 
divestitures, refranchisings and other strategic transactions. Potential issues associated with these activities 
could include, among other things: our ability to realize the full extent of the expected returns, benefits, cost 
savings or synergies as a result of a transaction, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary 
consents, clearances and approvals in connection with a transaction; and diversion of management’s attention 
from day-to-day operations. 


With respect to acquisitions, the following factors also pose potential risks: our ability to successfully combine 
our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the acquired company’s 
manufacturing, distribution, sales, accounting, financial reporting and administrative support activities and 
information technology systems with our company; our ability to successfully operate in new categories or 
territories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls 
(including internal control over financial reporting, environmental compliance, health and safety compliance 
and compliance with other laws and regulations), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation 
structures between us and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative 
infrastructures and avoiding increased operating expenses; consolidating sales and marketing operations; 
retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; retaining existing distributors; identifying and 
eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed 
organizations; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following 
completion of an acquisition; and other unanticipated problems or liabilities, such as contingent liabilities 
and litigation. 


With respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility with one or more parties 
who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, resources or values as we do. Joint ventures 
are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Business 
decisions or other actions or omissions of our joint venture partners may adversely affect the value of our 
investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us or otherwise damage our reputation and brands 
and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


In addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the United States increase our exposure to risks 
associated with operations outside of the United States, including fluctuations in exchange rates and 


22 


compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and laws 
and regulations outside the United States. 


With respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we may not be able to complete or effectively manage such 
transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all and may fail to achieve the anticipated benefits 
or cost savings from the divestiture or refranchising. Further, as divestitures and refranchisings may reduce 
our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested 
or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain may adversely impact our sales or business 
performance. 


If an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, or 
if a divestiture or refranchising is not successfully completed or managed or does not result in the benefits 
or cost savings we expect, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. 


Achange in our estimates and underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses 
could result in an impairment charge, which could materially affect our results of operations. 


We conduct impairment tests on our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as other investments 
and other long-lived assets annually, during our third quarter, or more frequently, if circumstances indicate 
that the carrying value may not be recoverable or that an other-than-temporary impairment exists. Any changes 
in our estimates or underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our reporting units or in 
determining the fair value of any such reporting unit, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, 
as well as other investments and other long-lived assets, could adversely affect our results of operations. 
Factors that could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: significant negative economic or 
industry trends or competitive operating conditions; significant macroeconomic conditions that may result 
in a future increase in the weighted-average cost of capital used to estimate fair value; and significant changes 
in the nature and timing of decisions regarding assets or markets that do not perform consistent with our 
expectations, including factors we use to estimate future levels of sales, operating profit or cash flows. Future 
impairment charges could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods 
recognized. 


Increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or disagreements with tax authorities could 
adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. 
Increases in income tax rates or other changes in income tax laws in any particular jurisdiction could reduce 
our after-tax income from such jurisdiction and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or 
results of operations. Our operations outside the United States generate a significant portion of our income. 
In addition, the United States and many of the other countries in which our products are made, manufactured, 
distributed or sold, including countries in which we have significant operations, have recently made or are 
actively considering changes to existing tax laws. For example, on December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and 
Jobs Act (TCJ Act) was signed into law in the United States. The changes in the TCJ Act are broad and 
complex and we continue to examine the impact the TCJ Act may have on our business and financial results. 
Among its many provisions, the TCJ Act imposed a mandatory one-time transition tax on undistributed 
international earnings regardless of whether they are repatriated, reduced the U.S. corporate income tax rate 
from 35% to 21%, imposed limitations on the deductibility of interest and certain other corporate deductions, 
and moved from a “worldwide” system of taxation that generally allows deferral of U.S. tax on international 
earnings until repatriated to a “territorial’’/dividend exemption system with a minimum tax that will subject 
international earnings to U.S. tax when earned. In accordance with applicable SEC guidance, we recorded a 
provisional net tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2017 resulting from the enactment of the TCJ Act. This 
provisional expense is subject to change, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in estimates, 
23 


interpretations and assumptions we have made, changes in Internal Revenue Service (IRS) interpretations, 
the issuance of new guidance, legislative actions, changes in accounting standards or related interpretations 
in response to the TCJ Act and future actions by states within the United States that have not currently adopted 
the TCJ Act. For further information regarding the potential impact of the TCJ Act, see “Our Liquidity and 
Capital Resources” and “Our Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis 
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 


Additional changes in the U.S. tax regime or in how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign 
earnings, including changes in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, could adversely affect our 
business, financial condition or results of operations. 


We are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the IRS and other taxing authorities with 
respect to income and non-income based taxes both within and outside the United States. Economic and 
political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the adoption of new or 
reformed tax legislation or regulation, may make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution 
of tax audits and any related litigation could differ from our historical provisions and accruals, resulting in 
an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, in connection 
with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project, 
companies are required to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world, which 
may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in various countries. 


Failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity initiatives or global operating model could 
have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


Our future success and earnings growth depend, in part, on our ability to continue to reduce costs and improve 
efficiencies. Our productivity initiatives help support our growth initiatives and contribute to our results of 
operations. We continue to implement strategic plans that we believe will position our business for future 
success and long-term sustainable growth by allowing us to achieve a lower cost structure and operate more 
efficiently in the highly competitive beverage, food and snack categories and markets. We are also continuing 
to implement our global operating model to improve efficiency, decision making, innovation and brand 
management across the global PepsiCo organization to enable us to compete more effectively. Further, in 
order to continue to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts and our global operating model, it will be necessary 
to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. Some of these 
measures could yield unintended consequences, such as business disruptions, distraction of management and 
employees, reduced employee morale and productivity, and unexpected additional employee attrition, 
including the inability to attract or retain key personnel. It is critical that we have the appropriate personnel 
in place to continue to lead and execute our plans, including to effectively manage personnel adjustments 
and transitions resulting from these initiatives and increased competition for employees with the skills 
necessary to implement our plans. If we are unable to successfully implement our productivity initiatives 
and global operating model as planned, fail to implement these initiatives as timely as we anticipate, do not 
achieve expected savings as a result of these initiatives or incur higher than expected or unanticipated costs 
in implementing these initiatives, fail to identify and implement additional productivity opportunities in the 
future, or fail to successfully manage business disruptions or unexpected employee consequences on our 
workforce, morale or productivity, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could 
adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


If we are unable to recruit, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could 
have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


Our continued growth requires us to recruit, hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled 
and diverse workforce. We compete to recruit and hire new employees and then must train them and develop 
24 


their skills and competencies. Our employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies 
and our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to retain, develop and motivate highly 
skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Any unplanned turnover or unsuccessful implementation 
of our succession plans to backfill current leadership positions, including the Chief Executive Officer, or to 
hire and retain a highly skilled and diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and 
erode our competitive advantage or result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees, 
higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect 
our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. 


The loss of, or a significant reduction in sales to, any key customer or disruption in the retail landscape, 
including rapid growth in hard discounters and the e-commerce channel, could adversely affect our 
business, financial condition or results of operations. 


Our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, 
convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, hard discounters, e- 
commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. We must maintain mutually beneficial 
relationships with our key customers, including Wal-Mart, to compete effectively. Any inability to resolve a 
significant dispute with any of our key customers, a change in the business condition (financial or otherwise) 
of any of our key customers, even if unrelated to us, a significant reduction in sales to any key customer, or 
the loss of any of our key customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of 
operations. 


In addition, our industry has been affected by changes to the retail landscape, including the rapid growth in 
sales through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications as well as the integration of physical 
and digital operations among retailers. We are making significant investments in attracting talent to and 
building our global e-commerce capabilities. Although we are engaged in e-commerce with respect to many 
of our products, if we are unable to maintain and develop successful relationships with existing and new e- 
commerce retailers or otherwise adapt to the growing e-commerce landscape, while simultaneously 
maintaining relationships with our key customers operating in traditional retail channels, we may be 
disadvantaged in certain channels and with certain customers and consumers, which could adversely affect 
our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the growth in e-commerce may result 
in consumer price deflation, which may affect our relationships with key retail customers. If these e-commerce 
retailers were to take significant market share away from traditional retailers and/or we fail to adapt to the 
rapidly changing retail and e-commerce landscapes, our ability to maintain and grow our share of sales or 
volume and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 


Further, the retail landscape continues to be impacted by the increased consolidation of retail ownership and 
purchasing power, particularly in North America, Europe and Latin America, resulting in large retailers with 
increased purchasing power, which may impact our ability to compete in these areas. Such retailers may 
demand improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Further, should larger 
retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks, other distribution channels such as e- 
commerce, or private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and 
brand equity may be eroded. In addition, the growth of hard discounters that are focused on limiting the 
number of items they sell and selling predominantly private label brands may reduce our ability to sell our 
products through such retailers. Failure to appropriately respond to any of the foregoing, including failure 
to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers, could reduce our ability to secure 
adequate shelf space and product availability at our retailers, adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow 
our share of sales or volume, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


25 


Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade 
or potential downgrade of our credit ratings. 


Rating agencies routinely evaluate us, and their ratings of our long-term and short-term debt are based on a 
number of factors, including our cash generating capability, levels of indebtedness, policies with respect to 
shareholder distributions and our financial strength generally, as well as factors beyond our control, such as 
the then-current state of the economy and our industry generally. Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a 
credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, whether as a result of our actions 
or factors which are beyond our control, could increase our future borrowing costs, impair our ability to 
access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all, and result in a reduction 
in our liquidity. We expect to maintain Tier 1 commercial paper access, which we believe will facilitate 
appropriate financial flexibility and ready access to global credit markets at favorable interest rates. However, 
any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial 
paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely 
more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. Our borrowing costs and access to the commercial 
paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under 
review for a potential downgrade. An increase in our borrowing costs, limitations on our ability to access the 
global capital and credit markets or a reduction in our liquidity could adversely affect our financial condition 
and results of operations. 


If we are not able to successfully implement shared services or utilize information technology systems and 
networks effectively, our ability to conduct our business may be negatively impacted. 


We have entered into agreements with third-party service providers to utilize certain information technology 
support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan 
administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and may enter into agreements for shared services 
in other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. In addition, we utilize cloud-based 
services and systems and networks managed by third-party vendors to process, transmit and store information 
and to conduct certain of our business activities and transactions with employees, customers, consumers and 
other third parties. If any of these third-party service providers or vendors do not perform effectively, or if 
we fail to adequately monitor their performance, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings or 
we may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers and our reputation 
could be harmed. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, 
processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security 
breaches or otherwise, adverse effects on financial reporting, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to 
our reputation, which could have a negative impact on employee morale. 


We continue on our multi-year business transformation initiative to migrate certain of our systems, including 
our financial processing systems, to enterprise-wide systems solutions. These systems implementations are 
part of our ongoing global business transformation initiative, and we plan to continue implementing such 
systems throughout other parts of our businesses. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources 
necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the 
expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and 
efficiently, and remain in step with the changing needs of our business, which could result in the loss of 
customers or consumers and revenue. In addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or 
anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers 
or consumers and revenue. In connection with these implementations and resulting business process changes, 
we continue to enhance the design and documentation of business processes and controls, including our 
internal control over financial reporting processes, to maintain effective controls over our financial reporting. 
To date, this transition has not materially affected, and we do not expect it to materially affect, our internal 


26 


control over financial reporting. 
Fluctuations in exchange rates impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 


We hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. 
dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, the financial statements 
of our subsidiaries outside the United States, where the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar, are 
translated into U.S. dollars. Our operations outside of the United States, particularly in Mexico, Russia, 
Canada, the United Kingdom and Brazil, generate a significant portion of our net revenue. In addition, we 
purchase many of the ingredients, raw materials and commodities used in our business in numerous markets 
and in numerous currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates, including as a result of currency controls or other 
currency exchange restrictions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business, 
financial condition and results of operations. 


Climate change, water scarcity or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change or water 
scarcity may negatively affect our business and operations or damage our reputation. 


There is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have an adverse impact 
on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural 
disasters. In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be 
subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our 
products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, oranges and other fruits and potatoes. Natural disasters 
and extreme weather conditions, such as a hurricane, earthquake or flooding, may disrupt the productivity 
of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain and unfavorably impact the demand for, or our consumer’s 
ability to purchase, our products. The predicted effects of climate change may also exacerbate challenges 
regarding the availability and quality of water. As demand for water access continues to increase around the 
world, we may be subject to decreased availability of water, deteriorated quality of water or less favorable 
pricing for water, which could adversely impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. 


Concern over climate change may result in new or increased regional, federal and/or global legal and 
regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional 
costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. In the event that such regulation is more 
stringent than current regulatory obligations or the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor 
and improve our energy efficiency and water conservation, we may experience disruptions in, or significant 
increases in our costs of, operation and delivery and we may be required to make additional investments in 
facilities and equipment or relocate our facilities. In particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could 
substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and 
distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated 
with our products. As a result, the effects of climate change or water scarcity could negatively affect our 
business and operations. 


In addition, any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment or 
perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to act responsibly with respect to water use and the environment 
or to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning climate change 
or water scarcity could result in adverse publicity and could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial 
condition or results of operations. 


There is also increased focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, 
customers and consumers on these and other environmental sustainability matters, including deforestation, 
land use, climate impact and water use. Our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do 
not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to our impact on the environment. 


27 


Aportion of our workforce is represented by unions. Failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining 
agreements, or strikes or work stoppages, could cause our business to suffer. 


Many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and other employees may seek to 
be covered by collective bargaining agreements. Strikes or work stoppages or other business interruptions 
could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements 
on satisfactory terms or if we are unable to otherwise manage changes in, or that affect, our workforce, which 
could impair manufacturing and distribution of our products or result in a loss of sales, which could adversely 
impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. The terms and conditions of existing, 
renegotiated or new collective bargaining agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our 
ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency or to adapt to changing business 
needs or strategy. 


If we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we are found to infringe the 
intellectual property rights of others, the value of our products or brands, or our competitive position, 
could be reduced, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of 
operations. 


We possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. These intellectual property rights 
include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets that 
are important to our business and relate to a variety of our products, their packaging, the processes for their 
production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. We protect our 
intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret 
laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our 
intellectual property. If we fail to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, copyrights, patents, business 
processes and trade secrets, including our ingredient formulas, or if there is a change in law that limits or 
removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands, or 
our competitive position, could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial 
condition or results of operations. In addition, if, in the course of developing new products or improving the 
quality of existing products, we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, directly 
or indirectly, such finding could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition or 
results of operations and may limit our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing 
products. 


Potential liabilities and costs from litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or 
investigations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


We and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries 
and investigations, including but not limited to matters related to our advertising, marketing or commercial 
practices, product labels, claims and ingredients including sugar, sodium and saturated fat, our intellectual 
property rights, alleged infringement or misappropriation by us of intellectual property rights of others, 
environmental, privacy, employment, tax and insurance matters and matters relating to our compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations. We evaluate such matters to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes 
and estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses and establish reserves as appropriate. These matters 
are inherently uncertain and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in these 
matters, or that our assessment of the materiality of these matters and the likely outcome or potential losses 
and established reserves will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such matters. In the event that 
management’s assessment of actual or potential claims and proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation, claims, 
proceedings, inquiries or investigations that are material arise in the future, there may be a material adverse 
effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Responding to litigation, claims, 


28 


proceedings, inquiries, and investigations, even those that are ultimately non-meritorious, may also require 
us to incur significant expense and devote significant resources, and may generate adverse publicity that may 
damage our reputation or brand image, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial 
condition or results of operations. 


Many factors may adversely affect the price of our publicly traded securities. 


Many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and publicly traded debt. Such factors, 
some of which are beyond our control, may include, but are not limited to: unfavorable economic conditions; 
changes in financial or tax reporting and changes in accounting principles or practices that materially affect 
our reported financial condition and results; investor perceptions of our business, strategies and performance 
or those of our competitors; actions by shareholders or others seeking to influence our business strategies; 
speculation by the media or investment community regarding our business, strategies and performance or 
those of our competitors; developments relating to pending litigation, claims, investigations or inquiries; 
trading activity in our securities or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our securities; 
changes in our credit ratings; the impact of our share repurchase programs or dividend policy; and the outcome 
of referenda and elections. In addition, corporate actions, such as those we may or may not take from time 
to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure and our strategy, including as a result of 
business, legal, regulatory and tax considerations, may not have the impact we intend and may adversely 
affect the price of our securities. The above factors, as well as the other risks included in this “Item 1A. Risk 
Factors,” could adversely affect the price of our securities. 


Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 


We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC 
that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2017 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 


29 


Item 2. Properties. 


Our principal executive offices located in Purchase, New York and our facilities located in Plano, Texas, all 
of which we own, are our most significant corporate properties. 


Each division utilizes plants, warehouses, distribution centers, storage facilities, offices and other facilities, 
either owned or leased, in connection with making, marketing, distributing and selling our products. The 
approximate number of such facilities utilized by each division is as follows: 


Latin 
FLNA QFNA NAB America ESSA AMENA _ Shared” 
Plants © 35 5 65 50 85 50 5 
Other Facilities © 1,680 3 440 585 340 345 40 


(a) Shared properties are in addition to the other properties reported by our six divisions identified in this table. 

(b) Includes manufacturing and processing plants as well as bottling and production plants. 

(c) Includes warehouses, distribution centers, storage facilities, offices, including division headquarters, research and development facilities and 
other facilities. 


Significant properties by division included in the table above are as follows: 


¢ FLNA’s research and development facility in Plano, Texas, which is owned. 

¢ QENA’s food plant in Cedar Rapids, lowa, which is owned. 

¢ NAB’s research and development facility in Valhalla, New York, and a Tropicana plant in Bradenton, 
Florida, both of which are owned. 

¢ Latin America’s three snack plants in Mexico (one in Vallejo, one in Celaya and one in Monterrey) 
and one in Brazil (Sorocaba), all of which are owned. 

e ESSA’s snack plant in Leicester, United Kingdom, which is leased; its snack plant in Kashira, Russia, 
its fruit juice plant in Zeebrugge, Belgium, its beverage plant in Lebedyan, Russia and its dairy plant 
in Moscow, Russia, all of which are owned. 

¢ AMENA’s beverage plants in Tanta City, Egypt and Rayong, Thailand, and its snack plant in Sixth 
of October City, Egypt, all of which are owned; and its snack plant in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, which 
is leased. 

¢ Twoconcentrate plants in Cork, Ireland, which are shared by our NAB, ESSA and AMENA divisions, 
both of which are owned. 

e Shared service centers in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and Plano, Texas, which are primarily 
shared by our FLNA, QFNA and NAB divisions, both of which are leased. 


Mostof our plants are owned or leased ona long-term basis. In addition to company-owned or leased properties 
described above, we also utilize a highly distributed network of plants, warehouses and distribution centers 
that are owned or leased by our contract manufacturers, co-packers, strategic alliances or joint ventures in 
which we have an equity interest. We believe that our properties generally are in good operating condition 
and, taken as a whole, are suitable, adequate and of sufficient capacity for our current operations. 


30 


Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 


As previously disclosed, in January 2011, Wojewodzka Inspekcja Ochrony Srodowiska, the Polish 
environmental control authority, began an audit of a bottling plant of our subsidiary, Pepsi-Cola General 
Bottlers Poland SP, z.o.o. (PCGB), in Michrow, Poland. In July 2013, Wojewodzka Inspekcja Ochrony 
Srodowiska alleged that the plant was not in compliance in 2009 with applicable regulations governing the 
taking of water samples for analysis of the plant’s waste and sought monetary sanctions of $650,000 and, in 
August 2013, PCGB appealed this decision. In April 2015, the General Environmental Inspector for 
Environmental Protection upheld the sanctions against PCGB and, in May 2015, PCGB further appealed this 
decision. In October 2015, Viovodeship Administrative Court in Warsaw rejected our appeal and, in December 
2015, PCGB filed an extraordinary appeal in the Supreme Administrative Court. In October 2017, the Supreme 
Administrative Court issued a final, non-appealable decision, rejecting our appeal and we agreed to invest 
funds up to the penalty amount(s) into the bottling plant to fully resolve the matter. 


In addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, 
inquiries and investigations. While the results of such litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, 
inquiries and investigations cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes that the final outcome 
of the foregoing will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or 
cash flows. Sanctions imposed by foreign authorities are levied in local currency and disclosed using the 
U.S. dollar equivalent at the time of imposition and are subject to currency fluctuations. See also “Item 1. 
Business — Regulatory Matters” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” 


Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 


Not applicable. 


31 


Executive Officers of the Registrant 


The following is a list of names, ages and backgrounds of our current executive officers: 


Name Age Title 

Albert P. Carey 66 Chief Executive Officer, North America 

Sanjeev Chadha 58 Chairman, Asia, Middle East and North Africa 

Ruth Fattori 65 Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Chief Human Resources 


Officer, PepsiCo 
Marie T. Gallagher 58 Senior Vice President and Controller, PepsiCo 


Hugh F. Johnston 56 Vice Chairman, PepsiCo; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer, PepsiCo 


Dr. Mehmood Khan 59 Vice Chairman, PepsiCo; Executive Vice President, PepsiCo Chief Scientific 
Officer, Global Research and Development 


Ramon Laguarta 54 President, PepsiCo 

Laxman Narasimhan 50 Chief Executive Officer, Latin America and Europe Sub-Saharan Africa 
Indra K. Nooyi 62 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo 
Silviu Popovici 50 President, Europe Sub-Saharan Africa 

Vivek Sankaran 55 President and Chief Operating Officer, Frito-Lay North America 

Mike Spanos 53 Chief Executive Officer, Asia, Middle East and North Africa 

Kirk Tanner 49 President and Chief Operating Officer, North America Beverages 

David Yawman 49 Executive Vice President, Government Affairs, General Counsel and 


Corporate Secretary, PepsiCo 


Albert P. Carey, 66, was appointed Chief Executive Officer, North America, effective April 2016. Mr. Carey 
previously served as Chief Executive Officer, North America Beverages from July 2015 to April 2016, as 
Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Americas Beverages from 2011 to July 2015 and as President and Chief 
Executive Officer of Frito-Lay North America from 2006 to 2011. Mr. Carey began his career with Frito- 
Lay in 1981 where he spent 20 years in a variety of roles. He served as President, PepsiCo Sales from 2003 
until 2006. Prior to that, he served as Chief Operating Officer, PepsiCo Beverages and Foods North America 
from 2002 to 2003 and as PepsiCo’s Senior Vice President, Sales and Retailer Strategies from 1998 to 2002. 


Sanjeev Chadha, 58, was appointed Chairman, Asia, Middle East and North Africa, effective January 2018. 
Mr. Chadha previously served as Chief Executive Officer, Asia, Middle East and North Africa from July 
2015 to January 2018, as Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Asia, Middle East and Africa from 2013 to July 
2015, as President of PepsiCo’s Middle East and Africa region from 2011 to 2013 and as President of PepsiCo’s 
India region from 2009 to 2010. Mr. Chadha joined PepsiCo in 1989 and has held a variety of senior positions 
with the Company. He served as Senior Vice President - Commercial, Asia Pacific, including China and India, 
Senior General Manager, Vietnam and the Philippines, and held other leadership roles in sales, marketing, 
innovation and franchise. 


Ruth Fattori, 65, was appointed Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Chief Human Resources 
Officer, PepsiCo effective October 2017. Ms. Fattori previously served as PepsiCo’s Senior Vice President, 
Talent Management, Training and Development from February 2013 until October 2017. Prior to joining 
PepsiCo, Ms. Fattori was managing partner of Pecksland Partners, LLC from 2009 to February 2013. From 
2008 to 2009, Ms. Fattori served as Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer for MetLife, 
Inc. From 2004 to 2008, Ms. Fattori served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources at Motorola, 
Inc. and, prior to that, held senior human resources positions at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Siemens 
Corporation. 


32 


Marie T. Gallagher, 58, was appointed PepsiCo’s Senior Vice President and Controller in May 2011. 
Ms. Gallagher joined PepsiCo in 2005 as Vice President and Assistant Controller. Prior to joining PepsiCo, 
Ms. Gallagher was Assistant Controller at Altria Corporate Services from 1992 to 2005 and, prior to that, a 
senior manager at Coopers & Lybrand. 


Hugh F. Johnston, 56, was appointed Vice Chairman, PepsiCo in July 2015 and Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer, PepsiCo in March 2010. Mr. Johnston assumed responsibility for the Company’s 
global e-commerce business and the Company’s global business and information solutions function in July 
2015. He previously held responsibility for the Quaker Foods North America division from 2014 to 2016, 
the position of Executive Vice President, Global Operations from 2009 to 2010 and the position of President 
of Pepsi-Cola North America from 2007 to 2009. He was formerly PepsiCo’s Executive Vice President, 
Operations, a position he held from 2006 until 2007. From 2005 until 2006, Mr. Johnston was PepsiCo’s 
Senior Vice President, Transformation. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and Foods from 2002 through 2005, and as PepsiCo’s Senior Vice President 
of Mergers and Acquisitions in 2002. Mr. Johnston joined PepsiCo in 1987 as a Business Planner and held 
various finance positions until 1999 when he left to join Merck & Co., Inc. as Vice President, Retail, a position 
which he held until he rejoined PepsiCo in 2002. Prior to joining PepsiCo in 1987, Mr. Johnston was with 
General Electric Company in a variety of finance positions. 


Dr. Mehmood Khan, 59, was appointed Vice Chairman, PepsiCo in February 2015 and Executive Vice 
President, PepsiCo Chief Scientific Officer, Global Research and Development in May 2012. He previously 
held the position of Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo’s Global Nutrition Group from 2010 to May 2012 
and the position of PepsiCo’s Chief Scientific Officer from 2008 to May 2012. Prior to joining PepsiCo, 
Dr. Khan served for five years at Takeda Pharmaceuticals in various leadership roles including President of 
Research and Development and Chief Medical Officer. Dr. Khan also served at the Mayo Clinic from 2001 
until 2003 as the director of the Diabetes, Endocrinology and Nutrition Clinical Unit and as Consultant 
Physician in Endocrinology. 


Ramon Laguarta, 54, was appointed President, PepsiCo in September 2017. He previously held the positions 
of Chief Executive Officer, Europe Sub-Saharan Africa from July 2015 to September 2017, Chief Executive 
Officer, PepsiCo Europe from January 2015 to July 2015, President, Developing & Emerging Markets, 
PepsiCo Europe from 2012 to January 2015 and President, PepsiCo Eastern Europe Region from 2008 to 
2012. Mr. Laguarta joined PepsiCo in 1996 as a marketing vice president for Spain Snacks and served in a 
variety of positions, including as Commercial Vice President of PepsiCo Europe from 2006 to 2008, General 
Manager for Iberia Snacks and Juices from 2002 to 2006 and General Manager for Greece Snacks from 1999 
to 2001. Prior to joining PepsiCo in 1996, Mr. Laguarta worked for Chupa Chups, S.A., where he worked in 
several international assignments in Europe, Asia, and the United States. 


Laxman Narasimhan, 50, was appointed Chief Executive Officer, Latin America and Europe Sub-Saharan 
Africa in September 2017. He previously held the positions of Chief Executive Officer, Latin America from 
2015 to September 2017, Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Latin America Foods from 2014 to July 2015 
and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of PepsiCo Americas Foods, a business unit that had 
previously included the Company’s Frito-Lay North America, Quaker Foods North America and Latin 
America Foods divisions, from 2012 to 2014. Prior to joining PepsiCo in 2012, Mr. Narasimhan spent 19 
years at McKinsey & Company, where he served in various positions, including as a director and location 
manager of the New Delhi office and co-leader of the global consumer and shopper insights practice. 


Indra K. Nooyi, 62, has been PepsiCo’s Chief Executive Officer since 2006 and assumed the role of Chairman 
of PepsiCo’s Board of Directors in 2007. She was elected to PepsiCo’s Board of Directors and became 
President and Chief Financial Officer in 2001, after serving as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer since 2000. Ms. Nooyi also served as PepsiCo’s Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and 


33 


Development from 1996 until 2000, and as PepsiCo’s Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning from 1994 
until 1996. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Ms. Nooyi spent four years as Senior Vice President of Strategy, Planning 
and Strategic Marketing for Asea Brown Boveri, Inc. She was also Vice President and Director of Corporate 
Strategy and Planning at Motorola, Inc. Ms. Nooyi has served as a director of Schlumberger Ltd. since 2015. 


Silviu Popovici, 50, was appointed President, Europe Sub-Saharan Africa effective September 2017. Mr. 
Popovici previously served as President, Russia, Ukraine and CIS (The Commonwealth of Independent 
States) from August 2015 to September 2017, and as President, PepsiCo Russia from January 2013 to July 
2015. Mr. Popovici joined PepsiCo in 2011 following PepsiCo’s acquisition of Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC 
(WBD) and served as General Manager, WBD Foods Division from February 2011 until December 2012. 
Prior to the acquisition, Mr. Popovici held senior leadership roles at WBD, running its dairy business from 
2008 to 2011 and its beverages business from 2006 to 2008. 


Vivek Sankaran, 55, was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer, Frito-Lay North America, 
effective April 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Sankaran served as Chief Operating Officer, Frito-Lay North America 
from February 2016 to April 2016; Chief Commercial Officer, North America from 2014 to February 2016; 
Chief Customer Officer for Frito-Lay North America from 2012 to 2014; Senior Vice President and General 
Manager, Frito-Lay North America’s south business unit from 2011 to 2012; and Senior Vice President, 
Corporate Strategy and Development from 2009 to 2010. Prior to joining PepsiCo in 2009, Mr. Sankaran 
was a partner at McKinsey & Company, where he advised Fortune 100 companies with a focus on retail and 
high tech and co-led the North America purchasing and supply management practice. 


Mike Spanos, 53, was appointed Chief Executive Officer, Asia, Middle East and North Africa, effective 
January 2018. Mr. Spanos previously served as interim head of PepsiCo’s Asia, Middle East and North Africa 
division from October 2017 to January 2018 and as President and Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Greater 
China Region, from September 2014 to January 2018. Prior to that, Mr. Spanos served as Senior Vice President 
and Chief Customer Officer, PepsiCo North America Beverages from October 2011 to September 2014, as 
Senior Vice President and General Manager, PepsiCo Beverages Company’s west business unit from March 
2011 to October 2011 and as Senior Vice President, Retail Sales and Execution, PepsiCo Beverages Company 
from March 2010 to March 2011. Mr. Spanos joined PepsiCo in 1993 as a territory sales manager and unit 
manager in the Philadelphia market unit and served in various other leadership roles through March 2010. 
Prior to joining PepsiCo, Mr. Spanos served in the United States Marines Corps from 1987 to 1993, and with 
Tallahassee Medical Company as a sales representative in 1993. 


Kirk Tanner, 49, was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer, North America Beverages, effective 
April 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Tanner served as Chief Operating Officer, North America Beverages and 
President, Global Foodservice from December 2015 to April 2016 and President, Global Foodservice from 
2014 to December 2015. Mr. Tanner joined PepsiCo in 1992, where he has worked in numerous domestic 
and international locations and in a variety of roles, including senior vice president of Frito-Lay North 
America’s west region from 2009 to 2013; vice president, sales of PepsiCo UK and Ireland from 2008 to 
2009; region vice president, Frito-Lay North America’s Mountain region from 2005 to 2008; region vice 
president, Frito-Lay North America’s Mid-America region from 2002 to 2005; and region vice president, 
Frito-Lay North America’s California region from 2000 to 2002. 


David Yawman, 49, was appointed Executive Vice President, Government Affairs, General Counsel and 
Corporate Secretary, PepsiCo effective October 2017. Prior to that, Mr. Yawman served as Senior Vice 
President and Deputy General Counsel for PepsiCo and General Counsel for North America and Corporate 
from July 2017 to October 2017. He previously served as Senior Vice President, PepsiCo Deputy General 
Counsel, General Counsel, North America Beverages and Quaker Foods North America from July 2015 to 
July 2017, as Senior Vice President, PepsiCo Deputy General Counsel, General Counsel, PepsiCo America 
Beverages from April 2014 to July 2015, as Senior Vice President, PepsiCo Chief Compliance and Ethics 


34 


Officer from March 2012 to April 2014 and as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Pepsi Beverages 
Company from February 2010 to March 2012. Prior to that, he spent five years in the law department of The 
Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. (PBG) and, prior to that, was a member of PepsiCo’s corporate law department 
from the time he joined PepsiCo in 1998 until 2003. 


Executive officers are elected by our Board of Directors, and their terms of office continue until the next 
annual meeting of the Board or until their successors are elected and have qualified. There are no family 
relationships among our executive officers. 


35 


PART II 


Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases 
of Equity Securities. 


Stock Trading Symbol — PEP 


Stock Exchange Listings — Since December 20, 2017, our common stock has traded on The Nasdaq Global 
Select Market. Before December 20, 2017, our common stock traded on The New York Stock Exchange. 
Our common stock is also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange and SIX Swiss Exchange. 


Stock Prices — The quarterly composite high and low sales prices for PepsiCo common stock for each fiscal 
quarter of 2017 and 2016 as reported on The New York Stock Exchange through December 19, 2017 and 
The Nasdaq Global Select Market from December 20, 2017 through December 30, 2017, are contained in 
“Ttem 6. Selected Financial Data.” 


Shareholders — As of February 6, 2018, there were approximately 120,156 shareholders of record of our 
common stock. 


Dividends — We have paid consecutive quarterly cash dividends since 1965. The declaration and payment of 
future dividends are at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Dividends are usually declared in February, 
May, July and November and paid at the end of March, June and September and the beginning of January. 
On February 5, 2018, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.805 payable March 30, 
2018, to shareholders of record on March 2, 2018. For the remainder of 2018, the dividend record dates for 
these payments are expected to be June 1, September 7 and December 7, 2018, subject to approval of the 
Board of Directors. Information with respect to the quarterly dividends declared in 2017 and 2016 is contained 
in “Item 6. Selected Financial Data.” 


For information on securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see “Item 12. 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.” 


36 


Asummary of our common stock repurchases (in millions, except average price per share) during the fourth 
quarter of 2017 is set forth in the table below. 


Issuer Purchases of Common Stock 


Total Number of | Maximum Number (or 


Shares Approximate 
Total Purchased as Dollar Value) of 
Number of Average Part of Publicly | Shares that May Yet Be 
Shares Price Paid Announced Plans Purchased Under the 
Period Repurchased” Per Share or Programs Plans or Programs 
9/9/2017 $ 5,857 
9/10/2017 - 10/7/2017 15 $ 112.85 1.5 (167) 
5,690 
10/8/2017 - 11/4/2017 13 $ 111.00 1.3 (139) 
5,551 
11/5/2017 - 12/2/2017 1.1 $ 114.32 ili (126) 
5,425 
12/3/2017 - 12/30/2017 0.6 $ ESS) 0.6 (72) 
Total 45 $ 113.34 45 $ 5,353 


(a) All shares were repurchased in open market transactions pursuant to publicly announced repurchase programs. 

(b) Includes shares authorized for repurchase under the $12 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors and 
publicly announced on February 11, 2015, which commenced on July 1, 2015 and expires on June 30, 2018. On February 13, 
2018, we publicly announced a new repurchase program of up to $15 billion of our common stock, which will commence on 
July 1, 2018 and expire on June 30, 2021, and such shares are excluded from the above table. Such shares may be repurchased 
in open market transactions, in privately negotiated transactions, in accelerated stock repurchase transactions or otherwise. 


37 


In connection with our merger with The Quaker Oats Company (Quaker) in 2001, shares of our convertible 
preferred stock were authorized and issued to an employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) fund established 
by Quaker. In the fourth quarter of 2017, PepsiCo repurchased shares of its convertible preferred stock from 
the ESOP in connection with share redemptions by ESOP participants. See Note 11 to our consolidated 
financial statements for additional information on our convertible preferred stock. 


The Company does not have any authorized, but unissued, “blank check preferred stock.” 


The following table summarizes our convertible preferred share repurchases during the fourth quarter of 
2017. 


Issuer Purchases of Convertible Preferred Stock 


Maximum 
Number (or 
Total Number Approximate 
of Shares Dollar Value) of 
Purchased as Shares that May 
Total Part of Publicly Yet Be 
Number of Average Announced Purchased 
Shares Price Paid Per Plans or Under the Plans 
Period Repurchased Share Programs or Programs 
9/10/2017 - 10/7/2017 — $ = N/A N/A 
10/8/2017 - 11/4/2017 1,000 §$ 548.21 N/A N/A 
11/5/2017 - 12/2/2017 =: — N/A N/A 
12/3/2017 - 12/30/2017 900 $ 578.48 N/A N/A 
Total 1,900 $ 562.55 N/A N/A 


38 


Item 6. Selected Financial Data. 


Five-Year Summary 


(unaudited, in millions except per share amounts) 


The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with “Item 7. Management’s Discussion 
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” our consolidated financial statements and 
accompanying notes thereto. Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of each December and our fiscal year 
2016 comprised fifty-three reporting weeks while all other fiscal years presented in the tables below comprised 


fifty-two reporting weeks. 


Net revenue 


Operating profit 
Provision for income taxes 
Net income attributable to PepsiCo ” 


Net income attributable to PepsiCo per common 
share — basic 


Net income attributable to PepsiCo per common 
share — diluted © 


Cash dividends declared per common share 
Total assets 
Long-term debt 


FF F F FFF SF 


$ 


FA 


$ 
$ 
$ 


$ 


30,053 


$ 


29,213 


$ 23,821 


$ 24,333 


(a) Our fiscal 2016 results included an extra week of results. The 53 reporting week increased 2016 net revenue by $657 million, including 
$294 million in our FLNA segment, $43 million in our QFNA segment, $300 million in our NAB segment and $20 million in our ESSA 


segment. 


(b) Includes the provisional impact of the TCJ Act enacted in 2017. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. 


The following information highlights certain items that impacted our results of operations and financial 
condition for the five years presented above: 


Mark-to-market net impact 


Restructuring and impairment charges 


Provisional net tax expense related to the TCJ Act ” 


Gain on sale of Britvic plc (Britvic) securities ©) 


Gain on beverage refranchising ” 


Gain on sale of assets 


39 


Operating 


FFxi FFF F 


profit 
15 
(295) 


Provision for 


income taxes 


$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 


2017 
Net income 
attributable 
to PepsiCo 
(7) $ 8 
71 $ (224) 
(2,451) $ (2,451) 
(10) $ 85 
(33) $ 107 
(25) $ 62 


Net income 
attributable to 
PepsiCo per 
common share — 
diluted 
$ 0.01 
$ (0.16) 
$ (1.70) 
$ 0.06 
$ 0.07 

$ 


0.04 


2016 


Net income 
_ Net income attributable to 
Provision attributable to | Net income PepsiCo per 
Operating Interest forincome  oncontrolling attributable © common share — 
profit expense taxes interests to PepsiCo diluted 
Restructuring and impairment charges“ $ (160) $ — $ 26 $ 3 §$ (131) $ (0.09) 
Charge related to debt redemption “ $ — $ (233) $ 717 $ — $ (156) $ (0.11) 
53 reporting week “” $ 126 $ (19) $ (44) $ (1) $ 62 $ 0.04 
2015 
Net income 
attributable to 
Net income PepsiCo per 
Operating Provision for attributable to common share — 
profit income taxes PepsiCo diluted 


Restructuring and impairment charges “? $ (230) $ 46 $ (184) $ (0.12) 


0) 


A 
n 
~ 
fF 
fF 


Pension-related settlement benefits (25) $ 42 0.03 


Tax benefit © 


fF 
fF 
N 
ww 
So 
fF 
N 
w 
So 
Ff 
j=) 
om 
Nn 


Gain on beverage refranchising ” 


fF 
uo 
\o 
PF 
= 
= 
_ 
~— 
fF 
N 
ioe) 
Pf 
Oo 
j=) 
N 


Joint venture impairment charge “” $ (29) $ — §$ (29) $ (0.02) 
2014 
Net income 
oe Net income attributable to 
Provision for _ attributable to Net income PepsiCo per 
Operating income noncontrolling —_ attributable to common share — 
profit taxes interests PepsiCo diluted 


Restructuring and impairment charges “? $ (418) $ 99 §$ 3 $ (316) $ 


D> 
o 
N 
pa 

Y 


| 
fF 
| 


$ (105) $ 


Venezuela remeasurement charge $ (105) $ 


D> 
oO 
oO 
~ 

VY 


Other productivity initiatives $ (67) $ 13 


Ff 
| 


$ (54) $ 


—= 
S 
& 


40 


2013 


Net income 
attributable to 
Net income PepsiCo per 
Operating Provision for attributable to common share — 
profit income taxes PepsiCo diluted 
Mark-to-market net impact “ $ (72) $ 28 $ (44) $ (0.03) 
Restructuring and impairment charges “? $ (163) $ 34 §$ (129) $ (0.08) 
Tax benefit $ =. 209 $ 209 $ 0.13 
Venezuela remeasurement charge $ (111) $ — §$ (111) $ (0.07) 
Merger and integration charges “ $ (10) $ 2 § (8) $ (0.01) 
Gain on beverage refranchising ) $ 137 $ — $ 137 $ 0.09 


(c) 


(d) 
(e) 


(f) 
(g) 
(h) 


(i) 


Q) 


(k) 


0) 


(m) 
(n) 


(0) 


(p) 


(q) 
(r) 
(s) 


(t) 


Provision for income taxes is the expected tax benefit/charge on the underlying item based on the tax laws and income tax rates applicable 
to the underlying item in its corresponding tax jurisdiction and tax year and, in 2017, the impact of the TCJ Act is presented separately. 
Mark-to-market net gains and losses on commodity derivatives in corporate unallocated expenses. 

Expenses related to the 2014 Multi- Year Productivity Plan (2014 Productivity Plan) and 2012 Multi-Year Productivity Plan (2012 Productivity 
Plan). See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. 

In 2017, provisional net tax expense associated with the enactment of the TCJ Act. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 
In 2017, gain in the ESSA segment associated with the sale of our minority stake in Britvic. 

In 2017, gain in the AMENA segment associated with refranchising our beverage business in Jordan. See Note 14 to our consolidated 
financial statements. In 2015 and 2013, gains in the AMENA segment associated with refranchising a portion of our beverage businesses 
in India and the refranchising of our beverage business in Vietnam, respectively. 

In 2017, gains associated with the sale of assets in the following segments: $17 million in FLNA, $21 million in NAB, $21 million in 
AMENA and $28 million in corporate unallocated expenses. In 2014, gain in the ESSA segment associated with the sale of agricultural 
assets in Russia. 

In 2016, impairment charge in the AMENA segment to reduce the value of our 5% indirect equity interest in Tingyi-Asahi Beverages Holding 
Co. Ltd. (TAB) to its estimated fair value. In 2015, write-off in the AMENA segment of the value of a call option to increase our holding 
in TAB to 20%. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements. 

In 2016, interest expense primarily representing the premium paid in accordance with the “make-whole” redemption provisions to redeem 
all of our outstanding 7.900% senior notes due 2018 and 5.125% senior notes due 2019 for the principal amounts of $1.5 billion and $750 
million, respectively. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements. 

In 2016, pension settlement charge in corporate unallocated expenses related to the purchase of a group annuity contract. In 2015, benefits 
in the NAB segment associated with the settlement of pension-related liabilities from previous acquisitions. In 2014, lump sum settlement 
charges in corporate unallocated expenses related to payments for pension liabilities to certain former employees who had vested benefits. 
Our fiscal 2016 results included the 53“ reporting week, the impact of which was fully offset by incremental investments in our business. 
In 2015, charges in the Latin America segment related to the impairment of investments in our wholly-owned Venezuelan subsidiaries and 
beverage joint venture. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015, our financial results have not included the results of our Venezuelan 
businesses. See Note | to our consolidated financial statements. 

In 2015, non-cash tax benefit associated with our agreement with the IRS resolving substantially all open matters related to the audits for 
taxable years 2010 through 2011, which reduced our reserve for uncertain tax positions for the tax years 2010 through 2011. In 2013, non- 
cash tax benefit associated with our agreement with the IRS resolving all open matters related to the audits for taxable years 2003 through 
2009, which reduced our reserve for uncertain tax positions for the tax years 2003 through 2012. 

In 2015, impairment charges in the QFNA segment associated with our MQD joint venture investment, including a charge related to ceasing 
its operations. 

In 2015 and 2014, expenses related to other productivity initiatives outside the scope of the 2014 and 2012 Productivity Plans. 

In 2015, impairment charge in the AMENA segment associated with a joint venture in the Middle East. 

In 2014, net charge related to our remeasurement of the bolivar for certain net monetary assets of our Venezuelan businesses. $126 million of 
this charge was in corporate unallocated expenses, with the balance (equity income of $21 million) in our Latin America segment. In 2013, 
net charge related to the devaluation of the bolivar for our Venezuelan businesses. $124 million of this charge was in corporate unallocated 
expenses, with the balance (equity income of $13 million) in our Latin America segment. 

In 2013, merger and integration charges in the ESSA segment related to our acquisition of WBD. 


4l 


Selected Quarterly Financial Data 


Selected financial data for 2017 and 2016 is summarized as follows and highlights certain items that impacted 
our quarterly results (in millions except per share amounts, unaudited): 


2017 2016 
First Second Third Fourth First Second Third Fourth 
Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter 
Net revenue $12,049 $15,710 $16,240 $19,526 $11,862 $15,395 $16,027 $19,515 
Gross profit $ 6,763 $ 8,654 $ 8874 $10,449 $ 6,711 $ 8,565 $ 8,743 $10,571 
Operating profit $ 1,933 $ 2,990 $ 2,993 $ 2,593 $ 1,619 $ 2,964 $ 2,821 $ 2,381 
Mark-to-market net impact” $ 6 6©(14) $ (26)$ 27 $ 28 $ 46 $ #100 $ (39) $ 60 
Restructuring and impairment 
charges “ $ (27) $ (34) $ (8) $ (226) $ (30) $ (9) $ (7) $ (64) 
Provisional net tax expense related 
to the TCJ Act” — _— — $ (2,451) 
Gain on sale of Britvic securities — hs 95 =, nen = eats = —_ 
Gain on beverage refranchising ” —_— —_— — $ 140 
Gain on sale of assets ‘? = — 21 $ 66 aa = = = 
Charge related to the transaction 
with Tingyi ” _ — — — $ (373) 
Charge related to debt redemption ) — — — — — — — $ (233) 
Pension-related settlement charge “ — = — — $ (242) 
53” reporting week = = = = = = =— § 1% 
Provision for income taxes” $ 392 $ 656 $ 620 $ 3,026 $ 442 $ 718 $ 600 $ 414 
Net income/ loss) attributable to 
PepsiCo” $ 1,318 $ 2,105 $ 2,144 $ (710) $ 931 $ 2,005 $ 1,992 $ 1,401 


Net income“ loss) attributable to 


PepsiCo per common share 
Basic $ 0.92 $ 1.47 
Diluted $ 0.91 $ 1.46 


150 $ (0.50) $ 064 $ 139 $ 138 $ 0.98 
149 $ (0.50) $ 064 $ 1.38 $ 1.37 $ 0.97 


FH 


Cash dividends declared per 


common share $ 0.7525 $ 0.805 $ 0.805 $ 0.805 $0.7025 $0.7525 $0.7525 $0.7525 
Stock price per share” 

High $112.38 $118.12 $119.39 $120.57 $102.12 $106.94 $110.94 $109.71 

Low $101.06 $111.34 $112.25 $106.19 $ 93.25 $100.00 $101.30 $ 98.50 


(k) 
0) 


Our fiscal 2016 results included a 53" reporting week which increased 2016 net revenue by $657 million, including $294 million in our 
FLNA segment, $43 million in our QFNA segment, $300 million in our NAB segment and $20 million in our ESSA segment. 
Mark-to-market net gains and losses on commodity derivatives in corporate unallocated expenses. 

Expenses related to the 2014 and 2012 Productivity Plans. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. 

In 2017, provisional net tax expense associated with the enactment of the TCJ Act. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 
In 2017, gain in the ESSA segment associated with the sale of our minority stake in Britvic. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial 
statements. 

In 2017, gain in the AMENA segment associated with refranchising our beverage business in Jordan. See Note 14 to our consolidated 
financial statements. 

In 2017, gains associated with the sale of assets in the following segments: $17 million in FLNA, $21 million in NAB, $21 million in 
AMENA and $28 million in corporate unallocated expenses. 

In 2016, impairment charge in the AMENA segment to reduce the value of our 5% indirect equity interest in TAB to its estimated fair value. 
See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements. 

In 2016, interest expense primarily representing the premium paid in accordance with the “make-whole” redemption provisions to redeem 
all of our outstanding 7.900% senior notes due 2018 and 5.125% senior notes due 2019 for the principal amounts of $1.5 billion and $750 
million, respectively. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements. 

In 2016, pension settlement charge in corporate unallocated expenses related to the purchase of a group annuity contract. 

Our fiscal 2016 results included the 53" reporting week, the impact of which was fully offset by incremental investments in our business. 
Includes the provisional impact of the TCJ Act enacted in the fourth quarter of 2017. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements 
for additional information. 


42 


(m) Reflects the quarterly composite high and low sales prices for one share of PepsiCo common stock as reported on The New York Stock 
Exchange from December 27, 2015 through December 19, 2017 and The Nasdaq Global Select Market from December 20, 2017 through 
December 30, 2017. 


43 


Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


OUR BUSINESS 
Executive Overview 
Our Operations 
Other Relationships 
Our Business Risks 
OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS 
Results of Operations — Consolidated Review 
Non-GAAP Measures 
Items Affecting Comparability 
Results of Operations — Division Review 
Frito-Lay North America 
Quaker Foods North America 
North America Beverages 
Latin America 
Europe Sub-Saharan Africa 
Asia, Middle East and North Africa 
Our Liquidity and Capital Resources 
Return on Invested Capital 
OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Revenue Recognition 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
Income Tax Expense and Accruals 
Pension and Retiree Medical Plans 
Consolidated Statement of Income 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
Consolidated Statement of Equity 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
Note | — Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions 
Note 2 — Our Significant Accounting Policies 
Note 3 — Restructuring and Impairment Charges 
Note 4 — Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets 
Note 5 — Income Taxes 
Note 6 — Share-Based Compensation 
Note 7 — Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans 
Note 8 — Debt Obligations 
Note 9 — Financial Instruments 
Note 10 — Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo per Common Share 
Note 11 — Preferred Stock 
Note 12 — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Attributable to PepsiCo 
Note 13 — Supplemental Financial Information 
Note 14 — Divestitures 
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
GLOSSARY 


44 


Our discussion and analysis is intended to help the reader understand our results of operations and financial 
condition and is provided as an addition to, and should be read in connection with, our consolidated financial 
statements and the accompanying notes. Definitions of key terms can be found in the glossary beginning on 
page 130. Tabular dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts. All per share amounts reflect 
common stock per share amounts, assume dilution unless otherwise noted, and are based on unrounded 
amounts. Percentage changes are based on unrounded amounts. 


OUR BUSINESS 
Executive Overview 


We are a leading global food and beverage company with a complementary portfolio of enjoyable brands, 
including Frito-Lay, Gatorade, Pepsi-Cola, Quaker and Tropicana. Through our operations, authorized 
bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third parties, we make, market, distribute and sell a wide variety 
of convenient and enjoyable beverages, foods and snacks, serving customers and consumers in more than 
200 countries and territories. 


At PepsiCo, we are focused on operating our company in a way that generates sustained financial growth 
and consistently strong returns and is also responsive to the needs of the world around us. We call this approach 
Performance with Purpose — it is embedded into our business and our strategy — and it enabled us to deliver 
another year of strong performance in 2017. 


As we look to 2018 and beyond, we believe our Performance with Purpose strategy will enable us to continue 
delivering strong performance while positioning our Company for long-term sustainable growth. 


Our strategies are designed to address key challenges facing our Company, including: macroeconomic and 
political volatility and the continued rebalancing of the economic world; shifting consumer preferences and 
increasing demand for more nutritious foods and beverages; the disruption of retail; the expansion of hard 
discounters; and the emergence of niche brands laying claim to large consumer segments, particularly in 
developed markets. We intend to focus on the following areas to address and adapt to these challenges: 


- Utilizing the strength of our distribution system to offer consumers a wide array of choices, from 
“fun-for-you” to “better-for-you” to “good-for-you” products to meet consumers’ demand for more 
nutritious foods and beverages; 


¢ Continuing to strengthen our retail and foodservice relationships to sell our products faster, increase 
cash flow and engage consumers; 


¢ Minimizing our environmental footprint to streamline costs and mitigate our operational impact on 
the communities in which we operate; 


- Continuing to invest in our associates so that we have the best talent to position our company for 
continued growth; and 


- Continuing our investments in e-commerce and digital solutions to meet changing consumer 


consumption patterns and capture cost savings while streamlining our operations. 


See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for additional information about risks and uncertainties that the Company 
faces. 


Our Operations 


See “Item 1. Business” for information on our divisions and a description of our distribution network, 
ingredients and other supplies, brands and intellectual property rights, seasonality, customers and competition. 
In addition, see Note | to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions 


45 


and geographic areas. 


Other Relationships 


Certain members of our Board of Directors also serve on the boards of certain vendors and customers. These 
Board members do not participate in our vendor selection and negotiations nor in our customer negotiations. 
Our transactions with these vendors and customers are in the normal course of business and are consistent 
with terms negotiated with other vendors and customers. In addition, certain of our employees serve on the 
boards of Pepsi Bottling Ventures LLC and other affiliated companies of PepsiCo and do not receive 
incremental compensation for such services. 


Our Business Risks 


We are subject to risks in the normal course of business. During 2017 and 2016, certain jurisdictions in which 
our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold operated in a challenging environment, experiencing 
unstable economic, political and social conditions, civil unrest, natural disasters, debt and credit issues, and 
currency fluctuations. We continue to monitor the economic, operating and political environment in these 
markets closely and to identify actions to potentially mitigate any unfavorable impacts on our future results. 


The hurricanes and earthquakes which occurred in the third and fourth quarters of 2017 in North and Central 
America did not materially impact our consolidated financial results in 2017. 


In addition, certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have 
either imposed, or are considering imposing, new or increased taxes on the manufacture, distribution or sale 
of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used 
in the production of our products. These taxes vary in scope and form: some apply to all beverages, including 
non-caloric beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). Similarly, 
some measures apply a single tax rate per liquid ounce while others apply a graduated tax rate depending 
upon the amount of added sugar in the beverage and some apply a flat tax rate on beverages containing a 
particular substance or ingredient. 


We sell a wide variety of beverages, foods and snack in more than 200 countries and territories and the profile 
of the products we sell, and the amount of revenue attributable to such products, varies by jurisdiction. 
Because of this, we cannot predict the scope or form potential taxes or other potential limitations on our 
products may take, and therefore cannot predict the impact of such taxes or limitations on our financial 
results. In addition, taxes and limitations may impact us and our competitors differently. We continue to 
monitor existing and proposed taxes in the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, 
distributed and sold and to consider actions we may take to potentially mitigate the unfavorable impact, if 
any, of such taxes or limitations, including advocating alternative measures with respect to the imposition, 
form and scope of any such taxes or limitations. 


In addition, our industry has been affected by disruption of the retail landscape, including the rapid growth 
in sales through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, the integration of physical and 
digital operations among retailers and the international expansion of hard discounters. We continue to monitor 
changes in the retail landscape and to identify actions we may take to build our global e-commerce capabilities, 
distribute our products effectively through all existing and emerging channels of trade and potentially mitigate 
any unfavorable impacts on our future results. 


During the fourth quarter of 2017, the TCJ Act was enacted in the United States. The changes in the TCJ Act 
are broad and complex and we continue to examine the impact the TCJ Act may have on our business and 
financial results. Among its many provisions, the TCJ Act imposed a mandatory one-time transition tax on 
undistributed international earnings and reduced the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. As a 
result of the enactment of the TCJ Act, we recognized a provisional net tax expense of $2.5 billion in the 
fourth quarter of 2017. See further information in “Items Affecting Comparability.” The recorded impact of 


46 


the TCJ Act is provisional and the final amount may differ from the above estimate, possibly materially, due 
to, among other things, changes in estimates, interpretations and assumptions we have made, changes in IRS 
interpretations, the issuance of new guidance, legislative actions, changes in accounting standards or related 
interpretations in response to the TCJ Act and future actions by states within the United States that have not 
currently adopted the TCJ Act. For additional information, see “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources,” “Our 
Critical Accounting Policies” and Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 


See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” “Executive Overview” above and “Market Risks” below for more 
information about these risks and the actions we have taken to address key challenges. 


Risk Management Framework 


The achievement of our strategic and operating objectives involves taking risks and that those risks may 
evolve over time. To identify, assess, prioritize, address, manage, monitor and communicate these risks across 
the Company’s operations, we leverage an integrated risk management framework. This framework includes 
the following: 


¢ PepsiCo’s Board of Directors has oversight responsibility for PepsiCo’s integrated risk management 
framework. One of the Board’s primary responsibilities is overseeing and interacting with senior 
management with respect to key aspects of the Company’s business, including risk assessment and 
risk mitigation of the Company’s top risks. The Board receives updates on key risks throughout the 
year. In addition, the Board has tasked designated Committees of the Board with oversight of certain 
categories of risk management, and the Committees report to the Board regularly on these matters. 


° The Audit Committee of the Board reviews and assesses the guidelines and policies governing 
PepsiCo’s risk management and oversight processes, and assists the Board’s oversight of 
financial, compliance and employee safety risks facing PepsiCo; 


° The Compensation Committee of the Board reviews PepsiCo’s employee compensation 
policies and practices to assess whether such policies and practices could lead to unnecessary 
risk-taking behavior; 


° The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee assists the Board in its oversight of 
the Company’s governance structure and other corporate governance matters, including 
succession planning; and 


° The Public Policy and Sustainability Committee of the Board assists the Board in its oversight 
of PepsiCo’s policies, programs and related risks that concern key public policy and 
sustainability matters. 


¢ The PepsiCo Risk Committee (PRC), which is comprised of a cross-functional, geographically 
diverse, senior management group, including PepsiCo’s Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 
Officer, meets regularly to identify, assess, prioritize and address top strategic, financial, operating, 
compliance, safety, reputational and other risks. The PRC is also responsible for reporting progress 
on our risk mitigation efforts to the Board; 


¢ Division and key country risk committees, comprised of cross-functional senior management teams, 
meet regularly to identify, assess, prioritize and address division and country-specific business risks; 


¢ PepsiCo’s Risk Management Office, which manages the overall risk management process, provides 
ongoing guidance, tools and analytical support to the PRC and the division and key country risk 
committees, identifies and assesses potential risks and facilitates ongoing communication between 
the parties, as well as with PepsiCo’s Board of Directors and the Audit Committee of the Board; 


47 


¢ PepsiCo’s Corporate Audit Department evaluates the ongoing effectiveness of our key internal 
controls through periodic audit and review procedures; and 


¢ PepsiCo’s Compliance & Ethics Department leads and coordinates our compliance policies and 
practices. 


Market Risks 


We are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in: 


* commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy; 
¢ foreign exchange rates and currency restrictions; and 
* interest rates. 


In the normal course of business, we manage commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate risks 
through a variety of strategies, including productivity initiatives, global purchasing programs and hedging. 
Ongoing productivity initiatives involve the identification and effective implementation of meaningful cost- 
saving opportunities or efficiencies, including the use of derivatives. Our global purchasing programs include 
fixed-price contracts and purchase orders and pricing agreements. See “Uncertain or unfavorable economic 
conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.” and 
“Our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, 
disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials, energy, water and other supplies.” in “Item 1A. Risk 
Factors.” See “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further information on our non-cancelable 
purchasing commitments. 


The fair value of our derivatives fluctuates based on market rates and prices. The sensitivity of our derivatives 
to these market fluctuations is discussed below. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for further 
discussion of these derivatives and our hedging policies. See “Our Critical Accounting Policies” for a 
discussion of the exposure of our pension and retiree medical plan assets and liabilities to risks related to 
market fluctuations. 


Inflationary, deflationary and recessionary conditions impacting these market risks also impact the demand 
for and pricing of our products. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further discussion. 


Commodity Prices 


Our commodity derivatives had a total notional value of $0.9 billion as of December 30, 2017 and $0.8 billion 
as of December 31, 2016. At the end of 2017, the potential change in fair value of commodity derivative 
instruments, assuming a 10% decrease in the underlying commodity price, would have decreased our net 
unrealized gains in 2017 by $96 million. 


Foreign Exchange 


Our operations outside of the United States generated 42% of our net revenue in 2017, with Mexico, Russia, 
Canada, the United Kingdom and Brazil comprising approximately 20% of our net revenue in 2017. As a 
result, we are exposed to foreign exchange risks in the international markets in which our products are made, 
manufactured, distributed or sold. During 2017, unfavorable foreign exchange had a net nominal impact on 
net revenue growth due to declines in the Egyptian pound, Turkish lira and Pound sterling, offset by 
appreciation in the Russian ruble, Brazilian real and euro. Currency declines against the U.S. dollar which 
are not offset could adversely impact our future financial results. 


In addition, volatile economic, political and social conditions and civil unrest in certain markets in which 
our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, including in Brazil, China, India, Mexico, the 


48 


Middle East, Russia and Turkey, and currency fluctuations in certain of these international markets continue 
to result in challenging operating environments. We also continue to monitor the economic and political 
developments related to the United Kingdom’s pending withdrawal from the European Union, including how 
the United Kingdom will interact with other European Union countries following its departure, and the 
potential impact for the ESSA segment and our other businesses. 


Starting in 2014, Russia announced economic sanctions against the United States and other nations that 
include a ban on imports of certain ingredients and finished goods from specific countries. These sanctions 
have not had and are not expected to have a material impact on the results of our operations in Russia or our 
consolidated results or financial position, and we will continue to monitor the economic, operating and 
political environment in Russia closely. For the years ended December 30, 2017, December 31, 2016 and 
December 26, 2015, net revenue generated by our operations in Russia represented 5%, 4% and 4% of our 
consolidated net revenue, respectively. As of December 30, 2017, our long-lived assets in Russia were $4.7 
billion. 


Our foreign currency derivatives had a total notional value of $1.6 billion as of December 30, 2017 and 
December 31, 2016. The total notional amount of our debt instruments designated as net investment hedges 
was $1.5 billion as of December 30, 2017 and $0.8 billion as of December 31, 2016. At the end of 2017, we 
estimate that an unfavorable 10% change in the underlying exchange rates would have increased our net 
unrealized losses in 2017 by $125 million. 


Due to exchange restrictions and other conditions that significantly impact our ability to effectively manage 
our businesses in Venezuela and realize earnings generated by our Venezuelan businesses, effective at the 
end of the third quarter of 2015, we deconsolidated our Venezuelan subsidiaries and began accounting for 
our investments in our Venezuelan subsidiaries and joint venture using the cost method of accounting. In 
2015, we recorded pre- and after-tax charges of $1.4 billion in our income statement to reduce the value of 
the cost method investments to their estimated fair values, resulting in a full impairment. The factors that 
led to our conclusions at the end of the third quarter of 2015 continued to exist through the end of 2017, and 
we expect these conditions will continue for the foreseeable future. 


We do not have any guarantees related to our Venezuelan entities, and our ongoing contractual commitments 
to our Venezuelan businesses are not material. We will recognize income from dividends and sales of inventory 
to our Venezuelan entities, which have not been and are not expected to be material, to the extent cash in 
U.S. dollars is received. We have not received any cash in U.S. dollars from our Venezuelan entities since 
our deconsolidation at the end of the third quarter of 2015. We continue to monitor the conditions in Venezuela 
and their impact on our accounting and disclosures. For further information, please refer to Note 1 to our 
consolidated financial statements and “Items Affecting Comparability.” 


Interest Rates 


Our interest rate derivatives had a total notional value of $14.2 billion as of December 30, 2017 and $11.2 
billion as of December 31, 2016. Assuming year-end 2017 investment levels and variable rate debt, a 1- 
percentage-point increase in interest rates would have decreased our net interest expense in 2017 by $25 
million due to higher cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments levels as compared with our 
variable rate debt. 


49 


OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS 
Results of Operations — Consolidated Review 


In the discussions of net revenue and operating profit below, “effective net pricing” reflects the year-over- 
year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying 
products in different package sizes and in different countries and “net pricing” reflects the year-over-year 
combined impact of list price changes, weight changes per package, discounts and allowances. Additionally, 
“acquisitions and divestitures,” except as otherwise noted, reflect all mergers and acquisitions activity, 
including the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and changes in ownership or control in consolidated 
subsidiaries and nonconsolidated equity investees. The impact of the structural change related to the 
deconsolidation of our Venezuelan businesses is presented separately. 


Volume 


Our beverage volume in the NAB, Latin America, ESSA and AMENA segments reflects sales to authorized 
bottlers, independent distributors and retailers, as well as the sale of beverages bearing Company-owned or 
licensed trademarks that have been sold through our authorized independent bottlers. Bottler case sales (BCS) 
and concentrate shipments and equivalents (CSE) are not necessarily equal during any given period due to 
seasonality, timing of product launches, product mix, bottler inventory practices and other factors. While our 
beverage revenues are not entirely based on BCS volume, as there are independent bottlers in the supply 
chain, we believe that BCS is a valuable measure as it quantifies the sell-through of our beverage products 
at the consumer level. Sales of products from our unconsolidated joint ventures are reflected in our reported 
volume. NAB, Latin America, ESSA and AMENA, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, 
make, market, distribute and sell ready-to-drink tea products through a joint venture with Unilever (under 
the Lipton brand name), and NAB further, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, 
markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink coffee products through a joint venture with Starbucks. In 
addition, AMENA licenses the Tropicana brand for use in China on co-branded juice products in connection 
with a strategic alliance with Tingyi. 


Our food and snacks volume in the FLNA, QFNA, Latin America, ESSA and AMENA segments is reported 
on a system-wide basis, which includes our own sales and the sales by our noncontrolled affiliates of snacks 
bearing Company-owned or licensed trademarks. 


Servings 


Since our divisions each use different measures of physical unit volume (i.e., kilos, gallons, pounds and case 
sales), acommon servings metric is necessary to reflect our consolidated physical unit volume. Our divisions’ 
physical volume measures are converted into servings based on U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidelines 
for single-serving sizes of our products. 


In 2017, total servings decreased 1% compared to 2016. In 2016, total servings increased 3% compared to 
2015. Excluding the impact of the 53“ reporting week in 2016, total servings in 2017 was even with the prior 
year and total servings in 2016 increased 2% compared to 2015. Servings growth reflects adjustments to the 
prior year results for divestitures and other structural changes, including the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan 
businesses effective as of the end of the third quarter of 2015. 


50 


Consolidated Net Revenue and Operating Profit 


Change 
2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 
Net revenue $ 63,525 $ 62,799 $ 63,056 1% —% 
Operating profit $ 10,509 $ 9,785 $ 8,353 7% 17 % 
Operating profit margin 16.5% 15.6% 13.2% 1.0 D3} 


See “Results of Operations — Division Review” for a tabular presentation and discussion of key drivers of 
net revenue. 


2017 


Operating profit increased 7% and operating margin improved 1.0 percentage points. Operating profit growth 
was driven by the benefit of actions associated with our productivity initiatives, which contributed more than 
$1 billion in cost reductions across a number of expense categories, as well as effective net pricing. Items 
affecting comparability (see “Items Affecting Comparability”) also contributed 4 percentage points to 
operating profit growth and increased operating profit margin by 0.5 percentage points, primarily reflecting 
a prior-year impairment charge to reduce the value of our 5% indirect equity interest in TAB to its estimated 
fair value. Additionally, the impact of refranchising our beverage business in Jordan and a gain associated 
with the sale of our minority stake in Britvic each contributed | percentage point to operating profit growth. 
These impacts were partially offset by certain operating cost increases, higher commodity costs and 
unfavorable foreign exchange. Commodity inflation reduced operating profit growth by 6 percentage points, 
primarily attributable to inflation inthe AMENA, Latin America, ESSA, NAB and FLNAsegments. Corporate 
unallocated expenses (see Note | to our consolidated financial statements) decreased 9%, reflecting the 
impact of higher prior-year contributions to The PepsiCo Foundation, Inc. to fund charitable and social 
programs. 


2016 


Operating profit increased 17% and operating margin increased 2.3 percentage points. Operating profit 
growth was driven by the benefit of actions associated with our productivity initiatives, which contributed 
more than $1 billion in cost reductions across a number of expense categories, effective net pricing and 
volume growth. Additionally, the impact of recording an impairment charge in 2015 and ceasing the operations 
of our MQD joint venture contributed 1 percentage point to operating profit growth. These impacts were 
partially offset by certain operating cost increases, higher advertising and marketing expenses, unfavorable 
foreign exchange and higher commodity costs, as well as the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan businesses, 
which reduced operating profit growth by 2 percentage points. Items affecting comparability (see “Items 
Affecting Comparability”) contributed 13 percentage points to operating profit growth and increased 
operating profit margin by 1.5 percentage points, primarily reflecting a 17-percentage-point contribution 
from the 2015 Venezuela impairment charges. Higher commodity inflation reduced operating profit growth 
by 1 percentage point, primarily attributable to inflation in the Latin America, ESSA and AMENA segments, 
partially offset by deflation in the NAB, FLNA and QFNA segments. The impact of our 53™ reporting week 
was fully offset by incremental investments we made in our business. Corporate unallocated expenses (see 
Note | to our consolidated financial statements) decreased 1%, driven by lower pension expense reflecting 
the change to the full yield curve approach, lower foreign exchange transaction losses and decreases in other 
corporate expenses, partially offset by increased contributions to The PepsiCo Foundation, Inc. to fund 
charitable and social programs and the net impact of items affecting comparability mentioned above included 
in corporate unallocated expenses. 


51 


Other Consolidated Results 


Change 
2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 

Net interest expense $ (907) $ (1,232) $ (911) $ 325 $ (21) 
Annual tax rate ® 48.9% 25.4% 26.1% 
Net income attributable to PepsiCo $ 4,857 $ 6,329 $ 5,452 (23) % 16% 
Net income attributable to PepsiCo per common 

share — diluted $ 3.38 $ 436 $ 3.67 (23) % 19% 
Mark-to-market net impact (0.01) (0.08) — 
Restructuring and impairment charges 0.16 0.09 0.12 
Provisional net tax expense related to the TCJ Act 1.70 — — 
Charges related to the transaction with Tingyi — 0.26 0.05 
Charge related to debt redemption — 0.11 = 
Pension-related settlement charge/(benefits) — 0.11 (0.03) 
Venezuela impairment charges — — 0.91 
Tax benefit — — (0.15) 
Net income attributable to PepsiCo per common 

share — diluted, excluding above items ©” $ 523 $ 485 $ 4.57 8 % 6% 
Impact of foreign exchange translation "Tl —": . llc 1 3 
Growth in net income attributable to PepsiCo per 

common share — diluted, excluding above items, on 

a constant currency basis 9 % 9% 


(a) See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 
(b) See “Non-GAAP Measures.” 


2017 


Net interest expense decreased $325 million reflecting a prior-year charge of $233 million representing the 
premium paid in accordance with the “make-whole” redemption provisions to redeem all of our outstanding 
7.900% senior notes due 2018 and 5.125% senior notes due 2019 for the principal amounts of $1.5 billion 
and $750 million, respectively. This decrease also reflects higher interest income due to higher interest rates 
and average cash balances, as well as gains on the market value of investments used to economically hedge 
a portion of our deferred compensation liability. These impacts were partially offset by higher interest expense 
due to higher average debt balances. 


The reported tax rate increased 23.5 percentage points primarily as a result of the provisional net tax expense 
related to the TCJ Act, which contributed 26 percentage points to the increase, partially offset by the impact 
of the prior-year impairment charge to reduce the value of our 5% indirect equity interest in TAB to its 
estimated fair value, which had no corresponding tax benefit, as well as the impact of recognizing excess 
tax benefits in the provision for income taxes as a result of the changes in accounting for certain aspects of 
share-based payments to employees in the current year. See Note 2 and Note 5 to our consolidated financial 
statements for additional information. 


Net income attributable to PepsiCo and net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share both decreased 
23%. Items affecting comparability (see “Items Affecting Comparability”) negatively impacted both net 
income attributable to PepsiCo and net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share by 30 percentage 
points, primarily as a result of the provisional net tax expense related to the TCJ Act. 


52 


2016 


Net interest expense increased $321 million reflecting a charge of $233 million representing the premium 
paid in accordance with the “make-whole” redemption provisions to redeem all of our outstanding 7.900% 
senior notes due 2018 and 5.125% senior notes due 2019 for the principal amounts of $1.5 billion and $750 
million, respectively. This increase also reflects higher average debt balances, partially offset by higher 
interest income due to higher average cash balances, as well as gains on the market value of investments 
used to economically hedge a portion of our deferred compensation liability. 


The reported tax rate decreased 0.7 percentage points due to the impact of the 2015 Venezuela impairment 
charges, which had no corresponding tax benefit, partially offset by the 2015 favorable resolution with the 
IRS of substantially all open matters related to the audits for taxable years 2010 and 2011, as well as the 
2016 impairment charge recorded to reduce the value of our 5% indirect equity interest in TAB to its estimated 
fair value, which had no corresponding tax benefit. 


Net income attributable to PepsiCo increased 16% and net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share 
increased 19%. Items affecting comparability (see “Items Affecting Comparability”) positively contributed 
12 percentage points to net income attributable to PepsiCo and 13 percentage points to net income attributable 
to PepsiCo per common share. 


Non-GAAP Measures 


Certain financial measures contained in this Form 10-K adjust for the impact of specified items and are not 
in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). We use non-GAAP financial 
measures internally to make operating and strategic decisions, including the preparation of our annual 
operating plan, evaluation of our overall business performance and as a factor in determining compensation 
for certain employees. We believe presenting non-GAAP financial measures in this Form 10-K provides 
additional information to facilitate comparison of our historical operating results and trends in our underlying 
operating results, and provides additional transparency on how we evaluate our business. We also believe 
presenting these measures in this Form 10-K allows investors to view our performance using the same 
measures that we use in evaluating our financial and business performance and trends. 


We consider quantitative and qualitative factors in assessing whether to adjust for the impact of items that 
may be significant or that could affect an understanding of our ongoing financial and business performance 
or trends. Examples of items for which we may make adjustments include: amounts related to mark-to-market 
gains or losses (non-cash); charges related to restructuring programs; charges or adjustments related to the 
enactment of new laws, rules or regulations, such as significant tax law changes; gains or losses associated 
with mergers, acquisitions, divestitures and other structural changes; debt redemptions; pension and retiree 
medical related items; amounts related to the resolution of tax positions; asset impairments (non-cash); and 
remeasurements of net monetary assets. See below and “Items Affecting Comparability” for a description 
of adjustments to our U.S. GAAP financial measures in this Form 10-K. 


Non-GAAP information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered 
in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 
In addition, our non-GAAP financial measures may not be the same as or comparable to similar non-GAAP 
measures presented by other companies. 


The following non-GAAP financial measures are contained in this Form 10-K: 


* cost of sales, gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses, interest expense, 
noncontrolling interests and provision for income taxes, each adjusted for items affecting 
comparability; 


53 


* operating profit/loss, adjusted for items affecting comparability, and net income attributable to 
PepsiCo per common share — diluted, adjusted for items affecting comparability, and the 
corresponding constant currency growth rates; 


* organic revenue; 
e¢ free cash flow; and 
* return on invested capital (ROIC) and net ROIC, excluding items affecting comparability. 


Cost of Sales, Gross Profit, Selling, General and Administrative Expenses, Interest Expense, Noncontrolling 
Interests and Provision for Income Taxes, Adjusted for Items Affecting Comparability; Operating Profit/Loss, 
Adjusted for Items Affecting Comparability, and Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo per Common Share — 
Diluted, Adjusted for Items Affecting Comparability, and the Corresponding Constant Currency Growth 
Rates 


Cost of sales, gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses, interest expense, noncontrolling 
interests and provision for income taxes, adjusted for items affecting comparability; operating profit/loss, 
adjusted for items affecting comparability, and net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share — diluted, 
adjusted for items affecting comparability, exclude the net impact of mark-to-market gains and losses on 
centrally managed commodity derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, restructuring and 
impairment charges related to our 2014 and 2012 Productivity Plans, a provisional net tax expense associated 
with the enactment of the TCJ Act, charges related to the transaction with Tingyi, a charge related to debt 
redemption, pension-related settlements, Venezuela impairment charges and a tax benefit (see “Items 
Affecting Comparability” for a detailed description of each of these items). We also evaluate performance 
on operating profit/loss, adjusted for items affecting comparability, and net income attributable to PepsiCo 
per common share - diluted, adjusted for items affecting comparability, on a constant currency basis, which 
measure our financial results assuming constant foreign currency exchange rates used for translation based 
on the rates in effect for the comparable prior-year period. In order to compute our constant currency results, 
we multiply or divide, as appropriate, our current year U.S. dollar results by the current year average foreign 
exchange rates and then multiply or divide, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior-year average foreign 
exchange rates. We believe these measures provide useful information in evaluating the results of our business 
because they exclude items that we believe are not indicative of our ongoing performance. 


Organic Revenue 


We define organic revenue as net revenue adjusted for the impact of foreign exchange translation, as well as 
the impact from acquisitions, divestitures and other structural changes, including the Venezuela 
deconsolidation, for the comparable period. The Venezuela deconsolidation impact excluded the results of 
our Venezuelan businesses for the first three quarters of 2015. In addition, our fiscal 2016 reported results 
included an extra week of results. Organic revenue excludes the impact of the 53™ reporting week in the 
fourth quarter of 2016. 


We believe organic revenue provides useful information in evaluating the results of our business because it 
excludes items that we believe are not indicative of ongoing performance or that we believe impact 
comparability with the prior year. 


See “Organic Revenue Growth” in “Results of Operations — Division Review.” 
Free Cash Flow 


We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital spending, plus sales of 
property, plant and equipment. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives 
and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As 
such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending when evaluating our cash from operating 


54 


activities. Free cash flow is used by us primarily for financing activities, including debt repayments, dividends 
and share repurchases. Free cash flow is not a measure of cash available for discretionary expenditures since 
we have certain non-discretionary obligations such as debt service that are not deducted from the measure. 


See “Free Cash Flow” in “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 


ROIC and Net ROIC, Excluding Items Affecting Comparability 


We define ROIC as net income attributable to PepsiCo plus interest expense after-tax divided by the sum of 
quarterly average debt obligations and quarterly average common shareholders’ equity. Although ROIC is a 
common financial metric, numerous methods exist for calculating ROIC. Accordingly, the method used by 
management to calculate ROIC may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate their ROIC. 


We believe this metric serves as a measure of how well we use our capital to generate returns. In addition, 
we use net ROIC, excluding items affecting comparability, to compare our performance over various reporting 
periods on a consistent basis because it removes from our operating results the impact of items that are not 
indicative of our ongoing performance and reflects how management evaluates our operating results and 
trends. We define net ROIC, excluding items affecting comparability, as ROIC, adjusted for quarterly average 
cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, after-tax interest income and items affecting comparability. 
We believe the calculation of ROIC and net ROIC, excluding items affecting comparability, provides useful 
information to investors and is an additional relevant comparison of our performance to consider when 
evaluating our capital allocation efficiency. 


See “Return on Invested Capital” in “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 


Items Affecting Comparability 


Our reported financial results in this Form 10-K are impacted by the following items in each of the following 
years: 


2017 
Selling, 
general and Net income 
administrative Operating Provisionfor attributable 
Cost of sales Gross profit expenses profit income taxes” to PepsiCo 
Reported, GAAP Measure $ 28,785 $ 34,740 $ 24,231 $ 10,509 $ 4,694 $ 4,857 
Items Affecting Comparability 
Mark-to-market net impact 8 (8) 7 (15) (7) (8) 
Restructuring and impairment charges — — (295) 295 71 224 
Provisional net tax expense related to the TCJ Act = — — _ (2,451) 2,451 
Core, Non-GAAP Measure $ 28,793 $ 34,732 $ 23,943 $ 10,789 $ 2,307 $ 7,524 
2016 
Selling, Net income 
general and Provision attributable to Net income 
Cost of Gross administrative Operating Interest forincome — noncontrolling attributable 
sales profit expenses profit expense taxes interests to PepsiCo 
Reported, GAAP Measure $ 28,209 $ 34,590 $ 24,805 $ 9,785 $ 1,342 $ 2,174 $ 50 $ 6,329 
Items Affecting Comparability 
Mark-to-market net impact 78 (78) 89 (167) —_— (56) —_— (11) 
Restructuring and 
impairment charges = = (160) 160 = 26 3 131 
Charge related to the 
transaction with Tingyi = = (73) 373 = = =! 373 
Charge related to debt 
redemption _ _ — _ (233) 77 = 156 
Pension-related settlement 
charge = = (242) 242 = 80 —_ 162 
Core, Non-GAAP Measure $ 28,287 $ 34,512 $ 24,119 §$ 10,393 $ 1109 $ 2301 $ 53. $ 7,040 


2015 


Selling, 
general and Venezuela Net income 
Cost of administrative impairment Operating Provision for attributable 
sales Gross profit expenses charges profit income taxes” to PepsiCo 
Reported, GAAP Measure $ 28,731 $ 34,325 $ 24,613 $ LESS OSS Soma 1,941 $ 5,452 
Items Affecting Comparability 
Mark-to-market net impact (18) 18 29 — (11) (3) (8) 
Restructuring and impairment charges — —_— (230) —_ 230 46 184 
Charge related to the transaction with 
Tingyi _ _— (73) _— 73 — 73 
Pension-related settlement benefits — — 67 — (67) (25) (42) 
Venezuela impairment charges — — — (1,359) 1359) = 1,359 
Tax benefit — = — — — 230 (230) 
Core, Non-GAAP Measure $ 28,713 $ 34,343. $ 24,406 $ = 8 8957 © 2,189 $ 6,788 


(a) Provision for income taxes is the expected tax benefit/charge on the underlying item based on the tax laws and income tax rates applicable to the underlying 
item in its corresponding tax jurisdiction and tax year and, in 2017, the impact of the TCJ Act is presented separately. 


Mark-to-Market Net Impact 


We centrally manage commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. These commodity derivatives include 
agricultural products, energy and metals. Commodity derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
treatment are marked to market each period with the resulting gains and losses recorded in corporate 
unallocated expenses as either cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses, depending on 
the underlying commodity. These gains and losses are subsequently reflected in division results when the 
divisions recognize the cost of the underlying commodity in operating profit. Therefore, the divisions realize 
the economic effects of the derivative without experiencing any resulting mark-to-market volatility, which 
remains in corporate unallocated expenses. 


Restructuring and Impairment Charges 
2014 Multi-Year Productivity Plan 


To build on the successful implementation of the 2014 Productivity Plan to date, we expanded and extended 
the program through the end of 2019 to take advantage of additional opportunities within the initiatives of 
the 2014 Productivity Plan to further strengthen our food, snack and beverage businesses. We now expect 
to incur pre-tax charges and cash expenditures of approximately $1.3 billion and $985 million, respectively, 
as compared to our previous estimate of pre-tax charges and cash expenditures of approximately $990 million 
and $705 million, respectively. 


56 


The expected pre-tax charges and cash expenditures are summarized by year as follows: 


Cash 

Charges Expenditures 

2013 $ 53 $ — 
a 357 175 
2015 169 ee 

2016 160 95 

2017 295 113 

2018 (expected) 254 396 

2019 (expected) 17 41 

$ 1,305 ” $ 985 


(a) This total pre-tax charge is expected to consist of approximately $795 million of severance and other employee-related costs, approximately $165 million 
for asset impairments (all non-cash) resulting from plant closures and related actions, and approximately $345 million for other costs associated with the 
implementation of our initiatives, including contract termination costs. This charge is expected to impact reportable segments and Corporate approximately 
as follows: FLNA 14%, QFNA 3%, NAB 30%, Latin America 15%, ESSA 25%, AMENA 4% and Corporate 9%. 

(b) In 2015 and 2014, cash expenditures include $2 million and $10 million, respectively, reported on our cash flow statement in pension and retiree medical 
plan contributions. 

See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for further information related to our 2014 and 2012 


Productivity Plans. 
We regularly evaluate different productivity initiatives beyond the productivity plans and other initiatives 
discussed above and in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. 


Provisional Net Tax Expense Related to the TCJ Act 


In 2017, we recorded a provisional net tax expense of $2.5 billion ($1.70 per share) associated with the 
enactment of the TCJ Act in the fourth quarter of 2017. Included in the net tax expense of $2.5 billion is a 
provisional mandatory one-time transition tax of approximately $4 billion on undistributed international 
earnings, included in other liabilities. This mandatory one-time transition tax was partially offset by a 
provisional $1.5 billion benefit resulting from the required remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and 
liabilities to the new, lower U.S. corporate income tax rate. 


See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 
Charges Related to the Transaction with Tingyi 


In 2016, we recorded a pre- and after-tax impairment charge of $373 million ($0.26 per share) in the AMENA 
segment to reduce the value of our 5% indirect equity interest in TAB to its estimated fair value. 


In 2015, we recorded a pre- and after-tax charge of $73 million ($0.05 per share) in the AMENA segment 
related to a write-off of the value of a call option to increase our holding in TAB to 20%. 


See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements. 
Charge Related to Debt Redemption 


In 2016, we paid $2.5 billion to redeem all of our outstanding 7.900% senior notes due 2018 and 5.125% 
senior notes due 2019 for the principal amounts of $1.5 billion and $750 million, respectively, and terminated 
certain interest rate swaps. As a result, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $233 million ($156 million after-tax 
or $0.11 per share) to interest expense, primarily representing the premium paid in accordance with the 
“make-whole” redemption provisions. 


See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements. 


a7 


Pension-Related Settlements 


In 2016, we recorded a pre-tax pension settlement charge in corporate unallocated expenses of $242 million 
($162 million after-tax or $0.11 per share) related to the purchase of a group annuity contract. See Note 7 to 
our consolidated financial statements. 


In 2015, we recorded pre-tax benefits of $67 million ($42 million after-tax or $0.03 per share) in the NAB 
segment associated with the settlement of pension-related liabilities from previous acquisitions. These 
benefits were recognized in selling, general and administrative expenses. 


Venezuela Impairment Charges 


In 2015, we recorded pre- and after-tax charges of $1.4 billion ($0.91 per share) in the Latin America segment 
related to the impairment of investments in our wholly-owned Venezuelan subsidiaries and beverage joint 
venture. 


See Note | to our consolidated financial statements and “Our Business Risks.” 
Tax Benefit 


In 2015, we recognized a non-cash tax benefit of $230 million ($0.15 per share) associated with our agreement 
with the IRS resolving substantially all open matters related to the audits for taxable years 2010 through 
2011, which reduced our reserve for uncertain tax positions for the tax years 2010 and 2011. 


See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 


58 


Results of Operations — Division Review 


The results and discussions below are based on how our Chief Executive Officer monitors the performance 
of our divisions. Accordingly, volume growth measures for 2016 reflect adjustments to the base year for 
divestitures and other structural changes, including the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan businesses effective 
as of the end of the third quarter of 2015. See “Non-GAAP Measures” and “Items Affecting Comparability” 
for a discussion of items to consider when evaluating our results and related information regarding non-GAAP 


measures. 


Net Revenue, 2017 
Net Revenue, 2016 
% Impact of: 


Volume “ 


Effective net pricing ” 
Foreign exchange translation 
Acquisitions and divestitures 
53” reporting week “ 


Reported growth 


Net Revenue, 2016 
Net Revenue, 2015 


% Impact of: 


Volume “ 


Effective net pricing © 
Foreign exchange translation 
Acquisitions and divestitures 
Venezuela deconsolidation 
53 reporting week © 


Reported growth 


Latin 
America 


ESSA 


AMENA 


Total 


$ 7,208 
$ 6,820 


(2)% 


$ 11,050 
$ 10,216 


3% 
2 
3 


$ 6,030 
$ 6,338 


— % 
S) 


$ 63,525 
$ 62,799 


— % 


Latin 


ESSA 


AMENA 


Total 


$ 6,820 
$ 8,228 


3 % 
7 
(1) 


$ 10,216 
$ 10,510 


1.5 % 
2S) 
(7) 


$ 6,338 
$ 6,375 


6 % 
() 


$ 62,799 
$ 63,056 


FLNA QFNA NAB 
$ 15,798 $ 2,503 $20,936 
$ 15,549 $ 2,564 $21,312 
1% —% (2.5)% 
2.5 (1) 1 
= = 1 
(2) (2) (1) 
2% (2)% (2)% 
FLNA QFNA NAB 
G5 5458) G2 sotm Geis 
$ 14,782 $ 2,543 $ 20,618 
2% —% 1% 
a (1) 1 
D 2 Le 
5% 1% 3% 


(a) Excludes the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. In certain instances, volume growth varies from the amounts disclosed in the following 
divisional discussions due to nonconsolidated joint venture volume, and, for our beverage businesses, temporary timing differences between 
BCS and CSE, as well as the mix of beverage volume sold by our Company-owned and franchised-owned bottlers. Our net revenue excludes 
nonconsolidated joint venture volume, and, for our beverage businesses, is based on CSE. 

(b) Includes the year-over-year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in 
different package sizes and in different countries. 

(c) Our fiscal 2016 results included a 53 reporting week which increased 2016 net revenue by $657 million, including $294 million in our 
FLNA segment, $43 million in our QFNA segment, $300 million in our NAB segment and $20 million in our ESSA segment. 

(d) The impact of the exclusion of the 2015 results of our Venezuelan businesses, which were deconsolidated effective as of the end of the third 


quarter of 2015. 


(e) Amounts may not sum due to rounding. 


59 


Organic Revenue Growth 


Organic revenue is a non-GAAP financial measure. For further information on organic revenue see “Non- 
GAAP Measures.” 


2017 FLNA QFNA NAB fae ESSA AMENA Total 
Reported Growth = 2%) IH 6% BH) 1% 
% Impact of: 
Me a a a a an ee 
Acquisitions and divestitures = — (1) 0.5 = = a 
he SSS ee eS ee eee 
Organic Growth 3% (1)% (2)% 5% 6 % 5 % 2% 
Latin 
2016 FLNA QFNA NAB America ESSA = AMENA Total 
ReportedGrowth 5% TH FH ATH BH YH % 
% Impact of: 
Pee a Sele Se eS Se ee) 
Acquisitions and divestitures —_ = = 1 = = = 
i ee ee ee eee eel 
53" reporting week (2) (2) (1.5) — = — (1) 


(a) Our fiscal 2016 results included a 53 reporting week which increased 2016 net revenue by $657 million, including $294 million in our 
FLNA segment, $43 million in our QFNA segment, $300 million in our NAB segment and $20 million in our ESSA segment. Our 2017 
organic revenue growth excludes the impact of the 5 3" reporting week from our 2016 results. 

(b) The impact of the exclusion of the 2015 results of our Venezuelan businesses, which were deconsolidated effective as of the end of the third 
quarter of 2015. 

(c) Amounts may not sum due to rounding. 


60 


Frito-Lay North America 


% Change 
2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 

Net revenue $15,798 $15,549 $14,782 2 5 
Impact of foreign exchange translation _— — 
Impact of 53™ reporting week 2 (2) 
Organic revenue growth a a5 0 
Operating profit $ 4,823 $ 4,659 $ 4,304 3.5 8 
Restructuring and impairment charges 67 13 26 
Operating profit excluding above item “ $ 4,890 $ 4,672 $ 4,330 5 8 
Impact of foreign exchange translation — — 
Operating profit growth excluding above item, ) 

on a constant currency basis “ 4.5 8 


(a) See “Non-GAAP Measures.” 
(b) Does not sum due to rounding. 


2017 


Net revenue grew 2%, primarily reflecting effective net pricing, partially offset by the impact of the 53" 
reporting week in the prior year, which reduced net revenue growth by 2 percentage points. 


Volume declined 1%, reflecting mid-single-digit declines in trademark Lay’s and Fritos and a low-single- 
digit decline in trademark Doritos, partially offset by high-single-digit growth in variety packs. The 53™ 
reporting week in the prior year negatively impacted volume performance by 2 percentage points. 


Operating profit grew 3.5%, primarily reflecting planned cost reductions across a number of expense 
categories and the effective net pricing, as well as the impact of prior-year incremental investments into our 
business, which contributed | percentage point to operating profit growth. These impacts were partially offset 
by certain operating cost increases, including strategic initiatives, as well as higher commodity costs, primarily 
cooking oil, which reduced operating profit growth by 1 percentage point. The 53" reporting week in the 
prior year reduced operating profit growth by 2 percentage points. 


2016 


Net revenue grew 5%, driven by volume growth and effective net pricing. The 53™ reporting week contributed 
2 percentage points to the net revenue growth. 


Volume grew 3%, reflecting high-single-digit growth in variety packs, and mid-single-digit growth in 
trademark Doritos and Cheetos. These gains were partially offset by a mid-single-digit decline in our Sabra 
joint venture products. The 53™ reporting week contributed 2 percentage points to the volume growth. 


Operating profit grew 8%, primarily reflecting the net revenue growth and planned cost reductions across a 
number of expense categories, as well as lower commodity costs, which contributed 3 percentage points to 
operating profit growth, primarily fuel and cooking oil. These impacts were partially offset by certain 
operating cost increases, including strategic initiatives, and higher advertising and marketing expenses. The 
53" reporting week contributed 2 percentage points to operating profit growth, partially offset by incremental 
investments in our business, which reduced operating profit growth by 1.5 percentage points. 


61 


Quaker Foods North America 


% Change 
2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 

Net revenue $ 2,503 $ 2,564 $ 2,543 (2) 1 
Impact of foreign exchange translation —_— — 
Impact of 53” reporting week 2 (2) 
Organic revenue growth qa)” = 
Operating profit $ 642 $ 653 $ 560 (2) 16 
Restructuring and impairment charges 11 1 3 
Operating profit excluding above item “ $ 653 $ 654 $ 563 — 16 
Impact of foreign exchange translation Sa a _ = 
Operating profit growth excluding above item, 

on a constant currency basis ” —_— 16 


(a) See “Non-GAAP Measures.” 
(b) Does not sum due to rounding. 


2017 


Net revenue declined 2%, reflecting the impact of the 53™ reporting week in the prior year, which negatively 
impacted net revenue performance by 2 percentage points, as well as unfavorable mix. 


Volume declined 2%, reflecting a low-single-digit decline in ready-to-eat cereals and high-single-digit 
declines in trademark Roni and Gamesa, in part reflecting the impact of the 53™ reporting week in the prior 
year which negatively impacted volume performance by 2 percentage points. 


Operating profit decreased 2%, reflecting certain operating cost increases and the net revenue performance. 
The 53" reporting week in the prior year negatively impacted operating profit performance by 2 percentage 
points. These impacts were partially offset by planned cost reductions across a number of expense categories 
and lower advertising and marketing expenses, as well as the impact of prior-year incremental investments 
into our business, which positively contributed 1.5 percentage points to operating profit performance. 
Restructuring and impairment charges in the above table (see “Items Affecting Comparability’) negatively 
impacted operating profit performance by 1.5 percentage points. 


2016 


Net revenue grew 1%, driven by the 53™ reporting week which contributed 2 percentage points to the net 
revenue growth, partially offset by unfavorable net pricing and mix and unfavorable foreign exchange. 


Volume grew 2%, reflecting mid-single-digit growth in Aunt Jemima syrup and mix and low-single-digit 
growth in ready-to-eat cereals, oatmeal and bars. The 53™ reporting week contributed 2 percentage points 
to the volume growth. 


Operating profit increased 16%, impacted by 2015 impairment charges related to our dairy joint venture and 
ceasing its operations, which contributed 17 percentage points to operating profit growth. This increase also 
reflects planned cost reductions across a number of expense categories, as well as lower commodity costs, 
which contributed 6 percentage points to operating profit growth. These impacts were partially offset by 
higher advertising and marketing expenses, certain operating cost increases and the unfavorable net pricing 
and mix. The 53™ reporting week contributed 2 percentage points to operating profit growth, partially offset 
by incremental investments in our business, which reduced operating profit growth by 1.5 percentage points. 


62 


North America Beverages 


% Change 
2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 

Net revenue $20,936 $21,312 $20,618 (2) 3 
Impact of foreign exchange translation —_— — 
Impact of acquisitions and divestitures (1) — 
Impact of 53™ reporting week 1 (1.5) 
Organic revenue growth “ (2) Oo 
Operating profit $ 2,707 $ 2,959 $ 2,785 (9) 6 
Restructuring and impairment charges 54 35 33 
Pension-related settlement benefits — — (67) 
Operating profit excluding above items $ 2,761 $ 2,994 $ 2,751 (8) 9 
Impact of foreign exchange translation ——- 2... —_— — 
Operating profit growth excluding above items, 

on a constant currency basis @) (8) 9 


(a) See “Non-GAAP Measures.” 
(b) Does not sum due to rounding. 


2017 


Net revenue decreased 2%, primarily reflecting a decline in volume, partially offset by effective net pricing, 
as well as acquisitions which positively contributed 1 percentage point to the net revenue performance. The 
53™ reporting week in the prior year negatively impacted net revenue performance by 1 percentage point. 


Volume decreased 3.5%, driven by a5% decline in CSD volume and a 1% decline in non-carbonated beverage 
volume. The non-carbonated beverage volume decrease primarily reflected mid-single-digit declines in 
Gatorade sports drinks and in our juice and juice drinks portfolio, partially offset by a mid-single-digit increase 
in our overall water portfolio and a low-single-digit increase in Lipton ready-to-drink teas. Acquisitions had 
a nominal positive contribution to the volume performance. The 53" reporting week in the prior year 
negatively impacted volume performance by 1.5 percentage points. 


Operating profit decreased 9%, primarily reflecting certain operating cost increases and the net revenue 
performance, as well as higher commodity costs which negatively impacted operating profit performance 
by 2 percentage points. These impacts were partially offset by planned cost reductions across a number of 
expense categories and lower advertising and marketing expenses. Costs related to the hurricanes that occurred 
in the current year negatively impacted operating profit performance by 1| percentage point and were offset 
by a gain associated with a sale of an asset. In addition, the 53 reporting week in the prior year negatively 
impacted operating profit performance by | percentage point and was offset by incremental investments in 
our business in the prior year. 


2016 


Net revenue increased 3%, primarily reflecting effective net pricing and volume growth. The 53™ reporting 
week contributed 1.5 percentage points to the net revenue growth. 


Volume increased 2%, driven by a 7% increase in non-carbonated beverage volume, partially offset by a 1% 
decline in CSD volume. The non-carbonated beverage volume increase primarily reflected a double-digit 
increase in our overall water portfolio, a mid-single-digit increase in Gatorade sports drinks, and a high- 


63 


single-digit increase in Lipton ready-to-drink teas. The 53™ reporting week contributed 1.5 percentage points 
to the volume growth. 


Operating profit increased 6%, primarily reflecting the net revenue growth and planned cost reductions across 
a number of expense categories, as well as lower commodity costs which contributed 6 percentage points to 
operating profit growth. These impacts were partially offset by certain operating cost increases and higher 
advertising and marketing expenses. The 53" reporting week contributed 1.5 percentage points to the 
operating profit growth. This was partially offset by incremental investments in our business which reduced 
operating profit growth by 1 percentage point. Items affecting comparability in the above table (see “Items 
Affecting Comparability”) reduced operating profit growth by 3 percentage points. 


Latin America 
% Change 
2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 

Net revenue $7,208 $6,820 $ 8,228 6 (17) 
Impact of foreign exchange translation (1) 11 
Impact of acquisitions and divestitures 0.5 1 
Impact of Venezuela deconsolidation —_— 14 
Organic revenue growth “ a 9 
Operating profit/(loss) $ 908 $ 887 $ (206) 2 n/m 
Restructuring and impairment charges 63 27 36 
Venezuela impairment charges —_— — 1,359 
Operating profit excluding above items ” $ 971 $ 914 $1,189 6 (23) 
Impact of foreign exchange translation Ss 1 14 
Operating profit growth excluding above items, on a 

constant currency basis “ 7 (9) 


(a) See “Non-GAAP Measures.” 
(b) Does not sum due to rounding. 


n/m - Not meaningful due to the impact of impairment charges associated with a change in accounting for our Venezuela operations in 2015. 
2017 


Net revenue increased 6%, reflecting effective net pricing, partially offset by volume declines. Favorable 
foreign exchange contributed 1 percentage point to net revenue growth. 


Snacks volume declined 1.5%, reflecting low-single-digit declines in Brazil and Mexico. 


Beverage volume declined 2%, reflecting a mid-single-digit decline in Brazil and a low-single-digit decline 
in Argentina, partially offset by high-single-digit growth in Guatemala. Additionally, Mexico experienced a 
slight decline. 


Operating profit increased 2%, reflecting the effective net pricing and planned cost reductions across anumber 
of expense categories. These impacts were partially offset by certain operating cost increases and the volume 
declines, as well as higher commodity costs which reduced operating profit growth by 17 percentage points. 
Restructuring and impairment charges in the above table (see “Items Affecting Comparability”) reduced 
operating profit growth by 4 percentage points. 


2016 


Net revenue decreased 17%, reflecting the impact of the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan businesses, 
64 


effective as of the end of the third quarter of 2015, and unfavorable foreign exchange, which negatively 
impacted net revenue performance by 14 percentage points and 11 percentage points, respectively. These 
impacts were partially offset by effective net pricing and net volume growth. 


Snacks volume grew 3%, reflecting a mid-single-digit increase in Mexico. Additionally, Brazil experienced 
a slight increase. 


Beverage volume decreased 2%, reflecting a double-digit decline in Argentina and low-single-digit declines 
in Mexico and Honduras, partially offset by a low-single-digit increase in Brazil and a mid-single-digit 
increase in Guatemala. 


Operating profit improvement primarily reflected the 2015 Venezuela impairment charges, included in items 
affecting comparability in the above table (see “Items Affecting Comparability”). This improvement also 
reflects the effective net pricing, planned cost reductions across a number of expense categories and the net 
volume growth. Additionally, the impact of 2015 charges associated with productivity initiatives outside the 
scope of the 2014 and 2012 Productivity Plans contributed 4 percentage points to operating profit growth. 
These impacts were partially offset by certain operating cost increases, as well as the deconsolidation of our 
Venezuelan businesses, which reduced operating profit growth by 19 percentage points. Additionally, higher 
commodity costs reduced operating profit growth by 22 percentage points, largely due to transaction-related 
foreign exchange on purchases of raw materials, driven by a strong U.S. dollar. Operating profit was also 
reduced by higher advertising and marketing expenses, as well as incremental investments in our business, 
which reduced operating profit growth by 4 percentage points. Unfavorable foreign exchange translation 
reduced operating profit growth by 14 percentage points. 


Europe Sub-Saharan Africa 


% Change 
2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 

Net revenue $11,050 $10,216 $10,510 8 (3) 
Impact of foreign exchange translation (3) 7 
Impact of 53" reporting week — — 
Organic revenue growth 6” 4 
Operating profit $ 1,354 $ 1,108 $ 1,081 22 2.5 
Restructuring and impairment charges 53 60 89 
Operating profit excluding above item “ $ 1,407 $ 1,168 $ 1,170 20 — 
Impact of foreign exchange translation ———— a — 6 
Operating profit growth excluding above item, 

on a constant currency basis ” 20 6 


(a) See “Non-GAAP Measures.” 
(b) Does not sum due to rounding. 


2017 


Net revenue increased 8%, reflecting volume growth and effective net pricing, as well as favorable foreign 
exchange, which contributed 3 percentage points to net revenue growth. 


Snacks volume grew 5%, reflecting high-single-digit growth in Russia, partially offset by a slight decline in 
the United Kingdom and a low-single-digit decline in Spain. Additionally, Turkey, South Africa and the 
Netherlands experienced mid-single-digit growth. 


65 


Beverage volume grew 1%, reflecting mid-single-digit growth in Poland and Nigeria and low-single-digit 
growth in Turkey and France, partially offset by mid-single-digit declines in Russia and Germany, and a low- 
single-digit decline in the United Kingdom. 


Operating profit increased 22%, reflecting the net revenue growth and planned cost reductions across a 
number of expense categories. Additionally, a gain associated with the sale of our minority stake in Britvic 
in the second quarter of 2017 contributed 8 percentage points to operating profit growth. These impacts were 
partially offset by certain operating cost increases and higher advertising and marketing expenses, as well 
as higher commodity costs, which reduced operating profit growth by 7 percentage points. 


2016 


Net revenue decreased 3%, primarily reflecting unfavorable foreign exchange, which negatively impacted 
net revenue performance by 7 percentage points. These impacts were partially offset by effective net pricing 
and volume growth. 


Snacks volume grew 3%, primarily reflecting mid-single-digit growth in South Africa and low-single-digit 
growth in the Netherlands, partially offset by a low-single-digit decline in Russia. Additionally, the United 
Kingdom, Turkey and Spain experienced low-single-digit growth. 


Beverage volume grew 2%, primarily reflecting double-digit growth in Nigeria and high-single-digit growth 
in the United Kingdom and Poland, partially offset by a mid-single-digit decline in Russia and a low-single- 
digit decline in Germany. Additionally, Turkey and France each experienced low-single-digit growth. 


Operating profit increased 2.5%, reflecting planned cost reductions across a number of expense categories, 
the effective net pricing and the volume growth. These impacts were partially offset by higher commodity 
costs, which reduced operating profit growth by 19 percentage points, largely due to transaction-related 
foreign exchange on purchases of raw materials led by a strong U.S. dollar. Additionally, certain operating 
cost increases and higher advertising and marketing expenses reduced operating profit growth. The impact 
of unfavorable foreign exchange translation and incremental investments in our business also reduced 
operating profit growth by 6 percentage points and 2 percentage points, respectively. 


Asia, Middle East and North Africa 


% Change 
2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 

Net revenue $ 6,030 $ 6,338 $ 6,375 (5) (1) 
Impact of foreign exchange translation 10 5 
Impact of acquisitions and divestitures —_— — 
Organic revenue growth “ 5 5m 
Operating profit $ 1,073 $ 619 $ 941 73 (34) 
Restructuring and impairment charges (3) 14 30 
Charges related to the transaction with Tingyi —_— 373 73 
Operating profit excluding above items ” $ 1,070 $ 1,006 $ 1,044 6 (4) 
Impact of foreign exchange translation == =e Se 8 2 
Operating profit growth excluding above 

items, on a constant currency basis “ 1° (1.5) e) 


(a) See “Non-GAAP Measures.” 
(b) Does not sum due to rounding. 


66 


2017 


Net revenue decreased 5%, reflecting unfavorable foreign exchange, which negatively impacted net revenue 
performance by 10 percentage points, primarily driven by a weak Egyptian pound. This impact was partially 
offset by effective net pricing. 


Snacks volume grew 5%, driven by high-single-digit growth in China and India and double-digit growth in 
Pakistan. Additionally, the Middle East experienced low-single-digit growth and Australia experienced mid- 
single-digit growth. 


Beverage volume declined 1%, reflecting a double-digit decline in India and a mid-single-digit decline in 
the Middle East, partially offset by mid-single-digit growth in China, high-single-digit growth in Pakistan 
and low-single-digit growth in the Philippines. 


Operating profit improvement primarily reflected a prior-year impairment charge to reduce the value of our 
5% indirect equity interest in TAB to its estimated fair value, included in items affecting comparability in 
the above table (see “Items Affecting Comparability”). The effective net pricing and planned cost reductions 
across a number of expense categories also increased operating profit growth. Additionally, the impact of 
refranchising our beverage business in Jordan contributed 14 percentage points to operating profit growth. 
These impacts were partially offset by certain operating cost increases, as well as higher commodity costs, 
which reduced operating profit growth by 32 percentage points, primarily due to transaction-related foreign 
exchange on raw material purchases driven by the weak Egyptian pound. Unfavorable foreign exchange 
translation reduced operating profit growth by 8 percentage points. 


2016 


Net revenue declined 1%, reflecting unfavorable foreign exchange, which negatively impacted net revenue 
performance by 5 percentage points, as well as unfavorable net pricing. These impacts were partially offset 
by volume growth. 


Snacks volume grew 7%, reflecting double-digit growth in China and the Middle East and high-single-digit 
growth in Pakistan. Additionally, India experienced low-single-digit growth and Australia experienced mid- 
single-digit growth. 


Beverage volume grew 4%, driven by high-single-digit growth in Pakistan, double-digit growth in the 
Philippines and mid-single-digit growth in China. Additionally, the Middle East experienced low-single- 
digit growth and India experienced mid-single-digit growth. 


Operating profit decreased 34%, primarily reflecting the items affecting comparability in the above table 
(see “Items Affecting Comparability”). Additionally, operating profit performance was negatively impacted 
by certain operating cost increases, including strategic initiatives, higher advertising and marketing expenses 
and the unfavorable net pricing, partially offset by the volume growth and planned cost reductions across a 
number of expense categories. The impact from a 2015 gain related to the refranchising of a portion of our 
beverage business in India negatively impacted operating profit performance by 4 percentage points. This 
impact was partially offset by a 2015 impairment charge associated with a joint venture in the Middle East 
which positively contributed 3 percentage points to operating profit performance. 


67 


Our Liquidity and Capital Resources 


We believe that our cash generating capability and financial condition, together with our revolving credit 
facilities and other available methods of debt financing, such as commercial paper borrowings and long-term 
debt financing, will be adequate to meet our operating, investing and financing needs. Our primary sources 
of cash available to fund cash outflows, such as our anticipated share repurchases, dividend payments and 
scheduled debt maturities, include cash from operations and proceeds obtained from issuances of commercial 
paper and long-term debt. However, there can be no assurance that volatility in the global capital and credit 
markets will not impair our ability to access these markets on terms commercially acceptable to us, or at all. 
See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for a description of our credit facilities. See also “Our 
Business Risks” and “Uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our 
business, financial condition or results of operations.” in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” 


As of December 30, 2017, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in our consolidated 
subsidiaries of $18.9 billion outside the United States. The TCJ Act imposed a mandatory one-time transition 
tax on undistributed international earnings, including the $18.9 billion held in our consolidated subsidiaries 
outside the United States as of December 30, 2017, as a result of which we recognized a provisional mandatory 
transition tax liability of approximately $4 billion in the fourth quarter of 2017. Under the provisions of the 
TCJ Act, this transition tax must be paid over eight years; we currently expect to pay this liability over the 
period 2019 to 2026. The recorded impact of the TCJ Act is provisional and the final amount may differ from 
the above estimate, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in estimates, interpretations and 
assumptions we have made, changes in IRS interpretations, the issuance of new guidance, legislative actions, 
changes in accounting standards or related interpretations in response to the TCJ Act and future actions by 
states within the United States that have not currently adopted the TCJ Act. 


In addition, as a result of this transition tax, we may access and repatriate our cash, cash equivalents and 
short-term investments held in our foreign subsidiaries during 2018 without such funds being subject to 
further U.S. income tax liability. We are currently evaluating when to repatriate such funds currently held 
by our foreign subsidiaries and how to utilize such funds, including whether to utilize such funds or other 
available methods of debt financing, such as commercial paper borrowings, for our anticipated share 
repurchases, dividend payments, scheduled debt maturities, discretionary benefit plan contributions, capital 
expenditures, certain investments into our business or other uses. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” “Our Business 
Risks,” “Items Affecting Comparability” and “Our Critical Accounting Policies” as well as Note 5 to our 
consolidated financial statements. 


As of December 30, 2017, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in our consolidated subsidiaries 
subject to currency controls or currency exchange restrictions were not material. 


Furthermore, our cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted by seasonality. Working 
capital needs are impacted by weekly sales, which are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal 
and holiday-related sales patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. On a continuing basis, we consider 
various transactions to increase shareholder value and enhance our business results, including acquisitions, 
divestitures, joint ventures, dividends, share repurchases, productivity and other efficiency initiatives, and 
other structural changes. These transactions may result in future cash proceeds or payments. 


The table below summarizes our cash activity: 


2017 2016 2015 


Net cash provided by operating activities $ 9,994 $ 10,673 $ 10,864 
Net cash used for investing activities $ (4,403) $ (7,148) $ (3,569) 
Net cash used for financing activities $ (4,186) $ (3,211) $ (4,112) 


68 


Operating Activities 


During 2017, net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $10 billion, compared to $10.7 
billion in the prior year. The operating cash flow performance primarily reflects unfavorable working capital 
comparisons to the prior year. This decrease is mainly due to higher current year payments to vendors and 
customers, coupled with higher net cash tax payments in the current year, partially offset by lower pension 
and retiree medical plan contributions in the current year. 


In February 2018, we received approval from our Board of Directors to make discretionary contributions of 
$1.4 billion to the PepsiCo Employees Retirement Plan A (Plan A) in the United States that we intend to 
invest in fixed income securities. As of February 13, 2018, we contributed $750 million of the approved 
amount; we expect to contribute the remaining $650 million in the first quarter of 2018. 


During 2016, net cash provided by operating activities was $10.7 billion, compared to $10.9 billion in the 
prior year. The operating cash flow performance reflects discretionary pension contributions of $459 million. 
In addition, working capital reflects unfavorable comparisons to the prior year. These decreases were partially 
offset by lower net cash tax payments in the current year. 


Investing Activities 


During 2017, net cash used for investing activities was $4.4 billion, primarily reflecting net capital spending 
of $2.8 billion and net purchases of debt securities with maturities greater than three months of $1.9 billion. 


During 2016, net cash used for investing activities was $7.1 billion, primarily reflecting net purchases of 
debt securities with maturities greater than three months of $4.1 billion and net capital spending of $2.9 
billion. 


See Note | to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of capital spending by division; 
see Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our investments in debt securities. 


We expect 2018 net capital spending to be approximately $3.6 billion. 
Financing Activities 


During 2017, net cash used for financing activities was $4.2 billion, primarily reflecting the return of operating 
cash flow to our shareholders through dividend payments and share repurchases of $6.5 billion and net 
payments of short-term borrowings of $1.1 billion, partially offset by net proceeds from long-term debt of 
$3.1 billion and proceeds from exercises of stock options of $0.5 billion. 


During 2016, net cash used for financing activities was $3.2 billion, primarily reflecting the return of operating 
cash flow to our shareholders through dividend payments and share repurchases of $7.2 billion, debt 
redemptions of $2.5 billion, and withholding tax payments on restricted stock units (RSUs), performance 
stock units (PSUs) and PepsiCo equity performance units (PEPunits) converted of $0.1 billion, partially 
offset by net proceeds from long-term debt of $4.7 billion, net proceeds from short-term borrowings of $1.5 
billion, and proceeds from exercises of stock options of $0.5 billion. 


We annually review our capital structure with our Board of Directors, including our dividend policy and 
share repurchase activity. On February 11, 2015, we announced a share repurchase program providing for 
the repurchase of up to $12.0 billion of PepsiCo common stock commencing from July 1, 2015 and expiring 
on June 30, 2018. On February 13, 2018, we announced a new share repurchase program providing for the 
repurchase of up to $15.0 billion of PepsiCo common stock commencing on July 1, 2018 and expiring on 
June 30, 2021. In addition, on February 13, 2018, we announced a 15.2% increase in our annualized dividend 
to $3.71 per share from $3.22 per share, effective with the dividend expected to be paid in June 2018. We 
expect to return a total of approximately $7 billion to shareholders in 2018 through share repurchases of 
approximately $2 billion and dividends of approximately $5 billion. 


69 


Free Cash Flow 


Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. For further information on free cash flow see “Non-GAAP 
Measures.” 


The table below reconciles net cash provided by operating activities, as reflected in our cash flow statement, 
to our free cash flow. 


% Change 
2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 9,994 $ 10,673 $ 10,864 (6) (2) 
Capital spending (2,969) (3,040) (2,758) 
Sales of property, plant and equipment 180 gS) 86 
Free cash flow “ $ 7,205 $ 7,732 $ 8,192 (7) (6) 


(a) See “Non-GAAP Measures.” In addition, when evaluating free cash flow, we also consider the following items impacting comparability: $6 million 
and $459 million in discretionary pension contributions and associated net cash tax benefits of $1 million and $151 million in 2017 and 2016, 
respectively; $113 million, $125 million and $214 million of payments related to restructuring charges and associated net cash tax benefits of $30 
million, $22 million and $51 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively; net cash received related to interest rate swaps of $5 million in 2016; 
net cash tax benefit related to debt redemption charge of $83 million in 2016; and $88 million in pension-related settlements and associated net 
cash tax benefits of $31 million in 2015. We will also consider payments related to the provisional transition tax liability of approximately $4 billion, 
which we currently expect to be paid over the period 2019 to 2026 under the provisions of the TCJ Act, as an item impacting comparability. 


We use free cash flow primarily for financing activities, including debt repayments, dividends and share 
repurchases. We expect to continue to return free cash flow to our shareholders through dividends and share 
repurchases while maintaining Tier 1 commercial paper access, which we believe will facilitate appropriate 
financial flexibility and ready access to global capital and credit markets at favorable interest rates. However, 
see “Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade 
or potential downgrade of our credit ratings.” in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Our Business Risks” for certain 
factors that may impact our credit ratings or our operating cash flows. 


Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment 
grade, whether or not as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our control, could increase our 
future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially 
acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair 
our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced 
historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. See 
“Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or 
potential downgrade of our credit ratings.” in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” “Our Business Risks” and Note 8 to 
our consolidated financial statements. 


Credit Facilities and Long-Term Contractual Commitments 


See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for a description of our credit facilities. 


70 


The following table summarizes our long-term contractual commitments by period: 


Payments Due by Period” 

2019 — 2021 — 2023 and 

Total 2018 2020 2022 beyond 

Long-term debt obligations $ 33,793 $ = § 2s § 7am © 18,781 
Interest on debt obligations ©) 13,371 1,114 1,966 1,637 8,654 
Operating leases 1,894 452 700 375 367 
Purchasing commitments “ 2,910 1,076 1,394 342 98 
Marketing commitments “ 1,886 410 794 480 202 


$ 53,854 $ 3,052 $ 12,657 $ 10,043 $ 28,102 


(a) Based on year-end foreign exchange rates. Reserves for uncertain tax positions are excluded from the table above as we are unable to reasonably 
predict the ultimate amount or timing of any such settlements. However, under the provisions of the TCJ Act, our provisional transition tax liability 
of approximately $4 billion, recorded in other liabilities on our balance sheet, must be paid over eight years. We expect to pay approximately $0.3 
billion per year in 2019-2023, $0.6 billion in 2024, $0.9 billion in 2025 and $1.0 billion in 2026 and these amounts are excluded from the table 
above. 

(b) Excludes $4,020 million related to current maturities of debt, $3 million related to the fair value adjustments for debt acquired in acquisitions and 
interest rate swaps and payments of $155 million related to unamortized net discount. 

(c) Interest payments on floating-rate debt are estimated using interest rates effective as of December 30, 2017. 

(d) See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on operating leases. 

(e) Primarily reflects non-cancelable commitments as of December 30, 2017. 


Long-term contractual commitments, except for our long-term debt obligations and provisional transition 
tax liability, are generally not recorded on our balance sheet. Operating leases primarily represent building 
leases. Non-cancelable purchasing commitments are primarily for oranges, orange juice and certain other 
commodities. Non-cancelable marketing commitments are primarily for sports marketing. Bottler funding 
to independent bottlers is not reflected in our long-term contractual commitments as it is negotiated on an 
annual basis. Accrued liabilities for pension and retiree medical plans are not reflected in our long-term 
contractual commitments. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information 
regarding our pension and retiree medical obligations. 


Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements 


We do not have guarantees or other off-balance-sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest 
entities, that we believe could have a material impact on our financial condition or liquidity. 


We coordinate, on an aggregate basis, the contract negotiations of raw material requirements, including 
sweeteners, aluminum cans and plastic bottles and closures for us and certain of our independent bottlers. 
Once we have negotiated the contracts, the bottlers order and take delivery directly from the supplier and 
pay the suppliers directly. Consequently, transactions between our independent bottlers and suppliers are not 
reflected in our consolidated financial statements. As the contracting party, we could be liable to these 
suppliers in the event of any nonpayment by our independent bottlers, but we consider this exposure to be 
remote. 


71 


Return on Invested Capital 


ROIC is a non-GAAP financial measure. For further information on ROIC, see “Non-GAAP Measures.” 


2017 2016 2015 

Net income attributable to PepsiCo S: 4s57 7) Se 6300 S545) 
Interest expense 1,151 1,342 970 
Tax on interest expense (415) (483) (349) 

$ 5,593 $ 7,188 $ 6,073 
Average debt obligations “ $ 38,707 $ 35,308 $ 31,169 
Average common shareholders’ equity 12,004 11,943 15,147 
Average invested capital $ 50,711 $ 47,251 $ 46,316 
Return on invested capital 11.0 % 15.2 % 13.1% © 


(a) Includes the provisional impact of the TCJ Act enacted in 2017. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

(b) Reflects the impact of the Venezuela impairment charges in 2015. 

(c) Average debt obligations includes a quarterly average of short-term and long-term debt obligations. 

(d) Average common shareholders’ equity includes a quarterly average of common stock, capital in excess of par value, retained earnings, 
accumulated other comprehensive loss and repurchased common stock. 


The table below reconciles ROIC as calculated above to net ROIC, excluding items affecting comparability. 


2017 2016 2015 
ROIC — 10% 152% 13.1 % 
Impact of: 
Average cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments 7.6 6.0 4.1 
Interest income (0.5) (0.2) (0.1) 
Tax on interest income 0.2 0.1 — 
Commodity mark-to-market net impact _ (0.2) —_ 
Restructuring and impairment charges 0.3 0.1 0.2 
Provisional net tax expense related to the TCJ Act 4.5 —_— —_— 
Charges related to the transaction with Tingyi (0.1) 0.6 0.1 
Pension-related settlement charge/(benefits) _— 0.3 (0.1) 
Venezuela impairment charges (0.2) (0.5) Dhl 
Tax benefits 0.1 0.1 (0.4) 
Net ROIC, excluding items affecting comparability 22.9 % 21.5 % 19.6 % 


OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 


An appreciation of our critical accounting policies is necessary to understand our financial results. These 
policies may require management to make difficult and subjective judgments regarding uncertainties, and 
as a result, such estimates may significantly impact our financial results. The precision of these estimates 
and the likelihood of future changes depend on a number of underlying variables and a range of possible 
outcomes. Other than our accounting for pension and retiree medical plans, our critical accounting policies 
do not involve a choice between alternative methods of accounting. With the exception of our provisional 
net tax expense related to the TCJ Act and the change in 2016 to the full yield approach to estimate the service 
and interest cost components for our pension and retiree medical plans described below, we applied our 
critical accounting policies and estimation methods consistently in all material respects, and for all periods 
presented. We have discussed our critical accounting policies with our Audit Committee. 


72 


Our critical accounting policies are: 
* revenue recognition; 
* goodwill and other intangible assets; 
* income tax expense and accruals; and 


* pension and retiree medical plans. 
Revenue Recognition 


We recognize revenue upon shipment or delivery to our customers based on written sales terms that do not 
allow for aright of return. However, our policy for DSD and certain chilled products is to remove and replace 
damaged and out-of-date products from store shelves to ensure that consumers receive the product quality 
and freshness they expect. Similarly, our policy for certain warehouse-distributed products is to replace 
damaged and out-of-date products. As a result, we record reserves, based on estimates, for anticipated 
damaged and out-of-date products. 


Our products are sold for cash or on credit terms. Our credit terms, which are established in accordance with 
local and industry practices, typically require payment within 30 days of delivery in the United States, and 
generally within 30 to 90 days internationally, and may allow discounts for early payment. We estimate and 
reserve for our bad debt exposure based on our experience with past due accounts and collectibility, the aging 
of accounts receivable and our analysis of customer data. 


Our policy is to provide customers with product when needed. In fact, our commitment to freshness and 
product dating serves to regulate the quantity of product shipped or delivered. In addition, DSD products are 
placed on the shelf by our employees with customer shelf space and storerooms limiting the quantity of 
product. For product delivered through other distribution networks, we monitor customer inventory levels. 


As discussed in “Our Customers” in “Item 1. Business,” we offer sales incentives and discounts through 
various programs to customers and consumers. Total marketplace spending includes sales incentives, 
discounts, advertising and other marketing activities. Sales incentives and discounts are primarily accounted 
for as a reduction of revenue and include payments to customers for performing activities on our behalf, such 
as payments for in-store displays, payments to gain distribution of new products, payments for shelf space 
and discounts to promote lower retail prices. Sales incentives and discounts also include support provided 
to our independent bottlers. 


See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our revenue recognition 
and related policies, including total marketplace spending, and the transition to the new revenue recognition 
guidance, which becomes effective in the first quarter of 2018. 


Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 


We sell products under a number of brand names, many of which were developed by us. Brand development 
costs are expensed as incurred. We also purchase brands and other intangible assets in acquisitions. In a 
business combination, the consideration is first assigned to identifiable assets and liabilities, including brands 
and other intangible assets, based on estimated fair values, with any excess recorded as goodwill. Determining 
fair value requires significant estimates and assumptions based on an evaluation of a number of factors, such 
as marketplace participants, product life cycles, market share, consumer awareness, brand history and future 
expansion expectations, amount and timing of future cash flows and the discount rate applied to the cash 
flows. 


We believe that a brand has an indefinite life if it has a history of strong revenue and cash flow performance 


73 


and we have the intent and ability to support the brand with marketplace spending for the foreseeable future. 
If these perpetual brand criteria are not met, brands are amortized over their expected useful lives, which 
generally range from 20 to 40 years. Determining the expected life of a brand requires management judgment 
and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors, including market share, consumer awareness, brand 
history, future expansion expectations and regulatory restrictions, as well as the macroeconomic environment 
of the countries in which the brand is sold. 


In connection with previous acquisitions, we reacquired certain franchise rights which provided the exclusive 
and perpetual rights to manufacture and/or distribute beverages for sale in specified territories. In determining 
the useful life of these franchise rights, many factors were considered, including the pre-existing perpetual 
bottling arrangements, the indefinite period expected for these franchise rights to contribute to our future 
cash flows, as well as the lack of any factors that would limit the useful life of these franchise rights to us, 
including legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors. Therefore, certain of these 
franchise rights are considered as indefinite-lived, with the balance amortized over the remaining contractual 
period of the contract in which the right was granted. 


Indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized and are assessed for impairment at least 
annually, using either a qualitative or quantitative approach. We perform this annual assessment during our 
third quarter. Where we use the qualitative assessment, first we determine if, based on qualitative factors, it 
is more likely than not that an impairment exists. Factors considered include macroeconomic, industry and 
competitive conditions, legal and regulatory environment, historical financial performance and significant 
changes in the brand or reporting unit. If the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely than not 
that an impairment exists, then a quantitative assessment is performed. 


The quantitative assessment requires an analysis of several estimates including future cash flows or income 
consistent with management’s strategic business plans, annual sales growth rates, perpetuity growth 
assumptions and the selection of assumptions underlying a discount rate (weighted-average cost of capital) 
based on market data available at the time. Significant management judgment is necessary to estimate the 
impact of competitive operating, macroeconomic and other factors to estimate future levels of sales, operating 
profit or cash flows. All assumptions used in our impairment evaluations for nonamortizable intangible assets, 
such as forecasted growth rates and weighted-average cost of capital, are based on the best available market 
information and are consistent with our internal forecasts and operating plans. These assumptions could be 
adversely impacted by certain of the risks described in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Our Business Risks.” 


Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating 
or macroeconomic environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted future cash flows indicates impairment, 
the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on its discounted future cash flows. 


See Note 2 and Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. 


Income Tax Expense and Accruals 


Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us 
in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual 
tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return 
positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are subject to challenge and that we likely 
will not succeed. We adjust these reserves, as well as the related interest, in light of changing facts and 
circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit. See “Increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax 
laws or disagreements with tax authorities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results 
of operations.” in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” 


74 


An estimated annual effective tax rate is applied to our quarterly operating results. In the event there is a 
significant or unusual item recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is 
separately calculated and recorded at the same time as that item. We consider the tax adjustments from the 
resolution of prior year tax matters to be among such items. 


Tax law requires items to be included in our tax returns at different times than the items are reflected in our 
financial statements. As a result, our annual tax rate reflected in our financial statements is different than that 
reported in our tax returns (our cash tax rate). Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses 
that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. 
These temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent 
items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in our tax returns in future years for which we have already 
recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax 
assets if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred 
tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our 
financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which we have already taken a 
deduction in our tax return but have not yet recognized as expense in our financial statements. 


During the fourth quarter of 2017, the TCJ Act was enacted in the United States. Among its many provisions, 
the TCJ Act imposed a mandatory one-time transition tax on undistributed international earnings and reduced 
the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018. As a result of the enactment 
of the TCJ Act, we recognized a provisional net tax expense of $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2017. See 
further information in “Items Affecting Comparability.” 


Included in the provisional net tax expense of $2.5 billion is a provisional mandatory one-time transition tax 
of approximately $4 billion on undistributed international earnings, included in other liabilities. This 
provisional mandatory one-time transition tax was partially offset by a provisional $1.5 billion benefit 
resulting from the required remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to the new, lower U.S. 
corporate income tax rate, effective January 1, 2018. The effect of the remeasurement was recorded in the 
fourth quarter of 2017, consistent with the enactment date of the TCJ Act and reflected in our provision for 
income taxes. 


The recorded impact of the TCJ Act is provisional and the final amount may differ, possibly materially, due 
to, among other things, changes in estimates, interpretations and assumptions we have made, changes in IRS 
interpretations, the issuance of new guidance, legislative actions, changes in accounting standards or related 
interpretations in response to the TCJ Act and future actions by states within the United States that have not 
currently adopted the TCJ Act. 


In 2017, our annual tax rate was 48.9% compared to 25.4% in 2016, as discussed in “Other Consolidated 
Results.” The tax rate increased 23.5 percentage points compared to 2016, primarily as a result of the 
provisional net tax expense related to the TCJ Act, which contributed 26 percentage points to the increase, 
partially offset by the impact of the prior-year impairment charge to reduce the value of our 5% indirect 
equity interest in TAB to its estimated fair value, which had no corresponding tax benefit, as well as the 
impact of recognizing excess tax benefits in the provision for income taxes as a result of the changes in 
accounting for certain aspects of share-based payments to employees in the current year. See Note 2 and 
Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. 


The TCJ Act is currently expected to reduce our annual tax rate, in percentage terms, to the low twenties in 
2018. However, we continue to evaluate the impact of the TCJ Act on our annual tax rate due to certain 
provisions, such as the global intangible low-tax income (GILTI) provision which may impact our tax rate 
in future years. 


75 


Pension and Retiree Medical Plans 


Our pension plans cover certain employees in the United States and certain international employees. Benefits 
are determined based on either years of service or a combination of years of service and earnings. Certain 
U.S. and Canada retirees are also eligible for medical and life insurance benefits (retiree medical) if they 
meet age and service requirements. Generally, our share of retiree medical costs is capped at specified dollar 
amounts, which vary based upon years of service, with retirees contributing the remainder of the cost. In 
addition, we have been phasing out certain subsidies of retiree medical benefits. 


In 2016, we approved an amendment to reorganize the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans that 
resulted in the combination of two plans effective December 31, 2016, and the spinoff of a portion of the 
combined plan into a pre-existing plan effective January 1, 2017. The benefits offered to the plans’ participants 
were unchanged. The result of the reorganization was the creation of Plan A and the PepsiCo Employees 
Retirement Plan I (Plan I). The reorganization was made to facilitate a targeted investment strategy over time 
and to provide additional flexibility in evaluating opportunities to reduce risk and volatility. Actuarial gains 
and losses associated with Plan A are amortized over the average remaining service life of the active 
participants, while the actuarial gains and losses associated with Plan I are amortized over the remaining life 
expectancy of the inactive participants. As a result of these changes, the pre-tax net periodic benefit cost 
decreased by $42 million ($27 million after-tax, reflecting tax rates effective for the 2017 tax year, or $0.02 
per share) in 2017, primarily impacting corporate unallocated expenses. See Note 7 to our consolidated 
financial statements. 


In 2016, the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans purchased a group annuity contract whereby an 
unrelated insurance company assumed the obligation to pay and administer future annuity payments for 
certain retirees. In 2016, we made discretionary contributions of $452 million primarily to fund the transfer 
of the obligation. This transaction triggered a pre-tax settlement charge of $242 million ($162 million after- 
tax or $0.11 per share). See “Items Affecting Comparability” and Note 7 to our consolidated financial 
statements. 


Our Assumptions 


The determination of pension and retiree medical expenses and obligations requires the use of assumptions 
to estimate the amount of benefits that employees earn while working, as well as the present value of those 
benefits. Annual pension and retiree medical expense amounts are principally based on four components: 
(1) the value of benefits earned by employees for working during the year (service cost), (2) the increase in 
the projected benefit obligation due to the passage of time (interest cost), and (3) other gains and losses as 
discussed in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements, reduced by (4) the expected return on assets 
for our funded plans. 


Significant assumptions used to measure our annual pension and retiree medical expenses include: 
* certain employee-related demographic factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality; 
¢ the expected return on assets in our funded plans; 
¢ for pension expense, the rate of salary increases for plans where benefits are based on earnings; 
¢ for retiree medical expense, health care cost trend rates; and 


¢ for pension and retiree medical expense, the spot rates along the yield curve used to determine the 
present value of liabilities and, beginning in 2016, to determine service and interest costs. 


Certain assumptions reflect our historical experience and management’s best judgment regarding future 
expectations. All actuarial assumptions are reviewed annually, except in the case of an interim remeasurement 
due to a significant event such as a curtailment or settlement. Due to the significant management judgment 


76 


involved, our assumptions could have a material impact on the measurement of our pension and retiree 
medical expenses and obligations. 


At each measurement date, the discount rates are based on interest rates for high-quality, long-term corporate 
debt securities with maturities comparable to those of our liabilities. Our U.S. obligation and pension and 
retiree medical expense is based on the discount rates determined using the Mercer Above Mean Curve. This 
curve includes bonds that closely match the timing and amount of our expected benefit payments and reflects 
the portfolio of investments we would consider to settle our liabilities. 


Beginning 2016, we changed the method we use to estimate the service and interest cost components of net 
periodic benefit cost for our U.S. and the majority of our significant international pension and retiree medical 
plans. Historically, we estimated the service and interest cost components using a single weighted-average 
discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the projected benefit obligation (or accumulated 
post-retirement benefit obligation for the retiree medical plans) at the beginning of the period. We now use 
a full yield curve approach in the estimation of these components of benefit cost by applying the specific 
spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected 
cash flows. We have made this change to improve the correlation between projected benefit cash flows and 
the corresponding yield curve spot rates, which we believe will result in a more precise measurement of 
service and interest costs. This change does not affect the measurement of our benefit obligation. We have 
accounted for this change in estimate on a prospective basis as of the beginning of 2016. The pre-tax reduction 
in net periodic benefit cost associated with this change was $125 million ($81 million after-tax or $0.06 per 
share) for the full year 2016. 


See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for information about the expected rate of return on plan 
assets and our plans’ investment strategy. Although we review our expected long-term rates of return on an 
annual basis, our asset returns in a given year do not significantly influence our evaluation of long-term rates 
of return. 


The health care trend rate used to determine our retiree medical plans’ liability and expense is reviewed 
annually. Our review is based on our claims experience, information provided by our health plans and 
actuaries, and our knowledge of the health care industry. Our review of the trend rate considers factors such 
as demographics, plan design, new medical technologies and changes in medical carriers. 


Weighted-average assumptions for pension and retiree medical expense are as follows: 


2018 2017 2016 


Pension 
Service cost discount rate 3.7% 4.3% 4.5% 
Interest cost discount rate 3.2% 3.5% 3.8% 
Expected rate of return on plan assets ” 6.9% 7.2% 7.2% 
Expected rate of salary increases 3.2% 3.2% 3.2% 
Retiree medical 
Service cost discount rate 3.6% 4.0% 4.3% 
Interest cost discount rate 3.0% 3.2% 3.3% 
Expected rate of return on plan assets ° 6.5% 7.5% 7.5% 
Current health care cost trend rate 5.8% 5.9% 6.0% 


(a) Expected rate of return on plan assets in 2018 reflects a $1.4 billion contribution to Plan A in the United States that we intend to invest in 
fixed income securities, as well as our 2018 target investment allocations disclosed in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. 


In general, lower discount rates increase the size of the projected benefit obligation and pension expense in 
the following year, while higher discount rates reduce the size of the projected benefit obligation and pension 
expense. Based on our assumptions, we expect our total pension and retiree medical expense to remain 


77 


consistent in 2018 primarily driven by cost savings due to the recognition of prior experience gains on plan 
assets and the impact of approved plan contributions, partially offset by the change in discount rates. 


Sensitivity of Assumptions 


A decrease in each of the collective discount rates or in the expected rate of return assumptions would increase 
expense for our benefit plans. A 25-basis-point decrease in each of the above discount rates and expected 
rate of return assumptions would increase 2018 pre-tax pension and retiree medical expense as follows: 


Assumption Amount 
Discount rates used in the calculation of expense $47 
Expected rate of return $42 


See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about the sensitivity of our 
retiree medical cost assumptions. 


Funding 


We make contributions to pension trusts that provide plan benefits for certain pension plans. These 
contributions are made in accordance with applicable tax regulations that provide for current tax deductions 
for our contributions and taxation to the employee only upon receipt of plan benefits. Generally, we do not 
fund our pension plans when our contributions would not be currently tax deductible. As our retiree medical 
plans are not subject to regulatory funding requirements, we generally fund these plans on a pay-as-you-go 
basis, although we periodically review available options to make additional contributions toward these 
benefits. 


In February 2018, we received approval from our Board of Directors to make discretionary contributions of 
$1.4 billion to Plan A in the United States that we intend to invest in fixed income securities. As of February 
13, 2018, we contributed $750 million of the approved amount; we expect to contribute the remaining $650 
million in the first quarter of 2018. These contributions are reflected in our 2018 long-term expected rate of 
return on plan assets and target investment allocations. 


Our pension and retiree medical contributions are subject to change as a result of many factors, such as 
changes in interest rates, deviations between actual and expected asset returns and changes in tax or other 
benefit laws. We regularly evaluate different opportunities to reduce risk and volatility associated with our 
pension and retiree medical plans. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for our past and 
expected contributions and estimated future benefit payments. 


78 


Consolidated Statement of Income 

PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

Fiscal years ended December 30, 2017, December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015 
(in millions except per share amounts) 


2017 2016 2015 


Cost of sales 28,785 28,209 28,731 


Selling, general and administrative expenses 24,231 24,805 24,613 


Operating Profit 10,509 9,785 8,353 


Interest income and other 244 110 59 


Provision for income taxes (See Note 5) 4,694 2,174 1,941 


Loa) 
—_ 
nn 
Co 
KR 
Ne} 


Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 


Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo per Common Share 


Diluted $ 3.38 §$ 4.36 §$ 3.67 


Basic 1,425 1,439 1,469 


Cash dividends declared per common share $ 3.1675 $ 2.96 $ 2.7625 


See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 


79 


Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries 


Fiscal years ended December 30, 2017, December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015 


(in millions) 


Net income $ 
Other comprehensive income/(loss), net of taxes: 

Net currency translation adjustment 

Net change on cash flow hedges 

Net pension and retiree medical adjustments 

Net change on securities 

Other 


Comprehensive income 


Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling 
interests 


Comprehensive Income Attributable to PepsiCo $ 


See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 


80 


2017 


4,908 $ 


1,109 
(36) 
(159) 
(68) 
16 
862 
5,770 


(51) 


5,719 $ 


Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries 


Fiscal years ended December 30, 2017, December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015 


(in millions) 


Operating Activities 
Net income 
Depreciation and amortization 
Share-based compensation expense 
Restructuring and impairment charges 
Cash payments for restructuring charges 
Charges related to the transaction with Tingyi 
Venezuela impairment charges 
Pension and retiree medical plan expenses 
Pension and retiree medical plan contributions 
Deferred income taxes and other tax charges and credits 
Provisional net tax expense related to the TCJ Act 
Change in assets and liabilities: 
Accounts and notes receivable 
Inventories 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 
Accounts payable and other current liabilities 
Income taxes payable 
Other, net 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 


Investing Activities 
Capital spending 
Sales of property, plant and equipment 
Acquisitions and investments in noncontrolled affiliates 
Reduction of cash due to Venezuela deconsolidation 
Divestitures 
Short-term investments, by original maturity: 
More than three months - purchases 
More than three months - maturities 
More than three months - sales 
Three months or less, net 
Other investing, net 
Net Cash Used for Investing Activities 


Financing Activities 

Proceeds from issuances of long-term debt 

Payments of long-term debt 

Debt redemptions 

Short-term borrowings, by original maturity: 
More than three months - proceeds 
More than three months - payments 
Three months or less, net 

Cash dividends paid 

Share repurchases - common 

Share repurchases - preferred 

Proceeds from exercises of stock options 


Withholding tax payments on RSUs, PSUs and PEPunits converted 


Other financing 
Net Cash Used for Financing Activities 


Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 


Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year 
Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year 


2017 


$ 4,908 
2,369 

292 

295 

(113) 


(2,969) 
180 
(61) 


267 


(18,385) 
15,744 
790 
2 
29 
(4,403) 


7,509 
(4,406) 


91 
(128) 
(1,016) 
(4,472) 
(2,000) 
(5) 
462 
(145) 
(76) 
(4,186) 
47 
1,452 
9,158 


$10,610 


(12,504) 
8,399 
16 
aS 
(7,148) 


7,818 
(3,105) 
(2,504) 


59 
(27) 
1,505 
(4,227) 
(3,000) 
(7) 
465 
(130) 
(8) 
(3,211) 
(252) 
62 
9,096 


$ 9,158 


15 
(43) 
53 
(4,040) 
(5,000) 
(5) 
504 
(151) 
(52) 
(4,112) 
(221) 
2,962 
6,134 


$ 9.096 


See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 


81 


Consolidated Balance Sheet 
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries 


December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 
(in millions except per share amounts) 


ASSETS 
Current Assets 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Short-term investments 
Accounts and notes receivable, net 
Inventories 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 
Total Current Assets 
Property, Plant and Equipment, net 
Amortizable Intangible Assets, net 
Goodwill 
Other nonamortizable intangible assets 
Nonamortizable Intangible Assets 
Investments in Noncontrolled Affiliates 
Other Assets 
Total Assets 


LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 
Current Liabilities 
Short-term debt obligations 


Accounts payable and other current liabilities 


Total Current Liabilities 
Long-Term Debt Obligations 
Other Liabilities 
Deferred Income Taxes 

Total Liabilities 
Commitments and contingencies 
Preferred Stock, no par value 
Repurchased Preferred Stock 
PepsiCo Common Shareholders’ Equity 


Common stock, par value Vi¢ per share (authorized 3,600 shares, issued, net of repurchased 
common stock at par value: 1,420 and 1,428 shares, respectively) 


Capital in excess of par value 
Retained earnings 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss 


Repurchased common stock, in excess of par value (446 and 438 shares, respectively) 
Total PepsiCo Common Shareholders’ Equity 


Noncontrolling interests 
Total Equity 
Total Liabilities and Equity 


See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 


2017 


$ 10,610 
8,900 
7,024 
2,947 
1,546 


31,027 


17,240 

1,268 
14,744 
12,570 


27,314 


2,042 
913 


$ 79,804 


$ 5,485 
15,017 


20,502 


33,796 
11,283 
3,242 


68,823 


41 
(197) 


24 

3,996 

52,839 
(13,057) 
(32,757) 


11,045 


92 


10,981 
$ 79,804 


$ 


2016 


9,158 
6,967 
6,694 
2,723 

908 


26,450 


16,591 

1,237 
14,430 
12,196 


26,626 


1,950 
636 


73,490 


6,892 
14,243 


BN 135" 


30,053 
6,669 
4,434 


62,291 


41 
(192) 


24 

4,091 

52,518 
(13,919) 


(31,468) 


11,246 
104 


~ 11,199" 
73,490 


Consolidated Statement of Equity 
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries 


Fiscal years ended December 30, 2017, December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015 


(in millions) 


Preferred Stock 

Repurchased Preferred Stock 
Balance, beginning of year 
Redemptions 
Balance, end of year 

Common Stock 
Balance, beginning of year 
Change in repurchased common stock 
Balance, end of year 

Capital in Excess of Par Value 
Balance, beginning of year 
Share-based compensation expense 


Stock option exercises, RSUs, PSUs and PEPunits 
converted “ 


Withholding tax on RSUs, PSUs and PEPunits 
converted 


Other 
Balance, end of year 
Retained Earnings 
Balance, beginning of year 
Net income attributable to PepsiCo 
Cash dividends declared - common 
Cash dividends declared - preferred 
Balance, end of year 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
Balance, beginning of year 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to 
PepsiCo 
Balance, end of year 


Repurchased Common Stock 


Balance, beginning of year 
Share repurchases 


Stock option exercises, RSUs, PSUs and PEPunits 
converted 


Other 

Balance, end of year 
Total PepsiCo Common Shareholders’ Equity 
Noncontrolling Interests 

Balance, beginning of year 

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 

Distributions to noncontrolling interests 

Currency translation adjustment 

Other, net 

Balance, end of year 


Total Equity 


2017 


Shares Amount 


4,091 
290 


(236) 


(145) 
(4) 


3,996 


52,518 
4,857 
(4,536) 


52,839 


(13,919) 


862 


(13,057) 


(438) (31,468) 
(18) (2,000) 


(446) (32,757) 


11,045 


$ 10,981 


2016 


Shares Amount 


50,472 
6,329 
(4,282) 

qd) 


52,518 


(13,319) 


(600) 


(13,919) 


(418) (29,185) 
(29) (3,000) 


(438) (31,468) 


11,246 


$ 11,199 


2015 


Shares Amount 


49,092 
5,452 
(4,071) 

qd) 
50,472 


(10,669) 


(2,650) 
(13,319) 


(378) (24,985) 
(52) (4,999) 


(418) (29,185) 


12,068 


110 
49 
(48) 

(2) 
(2) 
107 


$ 12,030 


(a) Includes total tax benefits of $110 million in 2016 and $107 million in 2015. 


See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 


83 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 


Note 1 — Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions 
Basis of Presentation 


The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and include the 
consolidated accounts of PepsiCo, Inc. and the affiliates that we control. In addition, we include our share 
of the results of certain other affiliates using the equity method based on our economic ownership interest, 
our ability to exercise significant influence over the operating or financial decisions of these affiliates or our 
ability to direct their economic resources. We do not control these other affiliates, as our ownership in these 
other affiliates is generally 50% or less. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. 


Raw materials, direct labor and plant overhead, as well as purchasing and receiving costs, costs directly 
related to production planning, inspection costs and raw materials handling facilities, are included in cost of 
sales. The costs of moving, storing and delivering finished product are included in selling, general and 
administrative expenses. 


The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and 
liabilities. Estimates are used in determining, among other items, sales incentives accruals, tax reserves, 
share-based compensation, pension and retiree medical accruals, amounts and useful lives for intangible 
assets and future cash flows associated with impairment testing for perpetual brands, goodwill and other 
long-lived assets. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis using our historical experience, as well as 
other factors we believe appropriate under the circumstances, such as current economic conditions, and adjust 
or revise our estimates as circumstances change. As future events and their effect cannot be determined with 
precision, actual results could differ significantly from these estimates. 


Effective as of the end of the third quarter of 2015, we deconsolidated our Venezuelan subsidiaries from our 
consolidated financial statements and began accounting for our investments in our wholly-owned Venezuelan 
subsidiaries and joint venture using the cost method of accounting. See subsequent discussion of “Venezuela.” 


Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of each December, resulting in an additional week of results every 
five or six years. Our fiscal 2016 results included an extra week. While our North America results are reported 
on a weekly calendar basis, most of our international operations report on a monthly calendar basis. Certain 
operations in our ESSA segment report on a weekly calendar basis. The following chart details our quarterly 
reporting schedule: 


Quarter United States and Canada International 

First Quarter 12 weeks January, February 

Second Quarter 12 weeks March, April and May 

Third Quarter 12 weeks June, July and August 

Fourth Quarter 16 weeks (17 weeks for 2016) | September, October, November and December 


See “Our Divisions” below, and for additional unaudited information on items affecting the comparability 
of our consolidated results, see further unaudited information in “Items Affecting Comparability” in 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


Unless otherwise noted, tabular dollars are in millions, except per share amounts. All per share amounts 
reflect common per share amounts, assume dilution unless otherwise noted, and are based on unrounded 
amounts. Certain reclassifications were made to the prior years’ financial statements to conform to the current 


84 


year presentation, including the adoption of the recently issued accounting pronouncements disclosed in 
Note 2. 


Our Divisions 


Through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third parties, we make, market, 
distribute and sell a wide variety of convenient and enjoyable beverages, foods and snacks, serving customers 
and consumers in more than 200 countries and territories with our largest operations in North America, 
Mexico, Russia, the United Kingdom and Brazil. Division results are based on how our Chief Executive 
Officer assesses the performance of and allocates resources to our divisions and are considered our reportable 
segments. For additional unaudited information on our divisions, see “Our Operations” contained in “Item 
1. Business.” The accounting policies for the divisions are the same as those described in Note 2, except for 
the following allocation methodologies: 


¢ share-based compensation expense; 
* pension and retiree medical expense; and 


¢ derivatives. 


Share-Based Compensation Expense 


Our divisions are held accountable for share-based compensation expense and, therefore, this expense is 
allocated to our divisions as an incremental employee compensation cost. The allocation of share-based 
compensation expense in 2017 was approximately 13% to FLNA, 1% to QFNA, 18% to NAB, 7% to Latin 
America, 9% to ESSA, 9% to AMENA and 43% to corporate unallocated expenses. In 2016, the allocation 
of share-based compensation expense was approximately 14% to FLNA, 2% to QFNA, 22% to NAB, 7% 
to Latin America, 11% to ESSA, 10% to AMENA and 34% to corporate unallocated expenses. We had similar 
allocations of share-based compensation expense to our divisions in 2015. The expense allocated to our 
divisions excludes any impact of changes in our assumptions during the year which reflect market conditions 
over which division management has no control. Therefore, any variances between allocated expense and 
our actual expense are recognized in corporate unallocated expenses. 


Pension and Retiree Medical Expense 


Pension and retiree medical service costs measured at fixed discount rates, as well as amortization of costs 
related to certain pension plan amendments and gains and losses due to demographics (including mortality 
assumptions and salary experience) are reflected in division results. Division results also include interest 
costs, measured at fixed discount rates, for retiree medical plans. Interest costs for the pension plans, pension 
asset returns and the impact of pension funding, and gains and losses other than those due to demographics, 
are all reflected in corporate unallocated expenses. In addition, corporate unallocated expenses include the 
difference between the service costs included in division results and total service costs determined using the 
plans’ discount rates as disclosed in Note 7. 


Derivatives 


We centrally manage commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. These commodity derivatives include 
agricultural products, energy and metals. Commodity derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
treatment are marked to market each period with the resulting gains and losses recorded in corporate 
unallocated expenses as either cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses, depending on 
the underlying commodity. These gains and losses are subsequently reflected in division results when the 
divisions recognize the cost of the underlying commodity in operating profit. Therefore, the divisions realize 
the economic effects of the derivative without experiencing any resulting mark-to-market volatility, which 
remains in corporate unallocated expenses. These derivatives hedge underlying commodity price risk and 
were not entered into for trading or speculative purposes. 


85 


Net revenue and operating profit/(loss) of each division are as follows: 


Net Revenue Operating Profit/(Loss) 

2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 
FLNA $ 15,798 $ 15,549 $ 14,782 $ 4,823 $ 4,659 $ 4,304 
QFNA 2,503 2,564 2,543 642 653 560 
NAB 20,936 21,312 20,618 2,707 BOSS) 2,785 
Latin America 7,208 6,820 8,228 908 887 (206) 
ESSA 11,050 10,216 10,510 1,354 1,108 1,081 
AMENA 6,030 6,338 6,375 1,073 619 941 
Total division 63,525 62,799 63,056 11,507 10,885 9,465 
Corporate unallocated _ — — (998) (1,100) (1,112) 


(a) For further unaudited information on certain items that impacted our financial performance, see “Item 6. Selected Financial Data.” 
Corporate Unallocated 


Corporate unallocated includes costs of our corporate headquarters, centrally managed initiatives such as 
research and development projects, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, foreign exchange transaction 
gains and losses, commodity derivative gains and losses, our ongoing business transformation initiatives and 
certain other items. 


Other Division Information 


Total assets and capital spending of each division are as follows: 


Total Assets Capital Spending 

2017 2016 2017 2016 2015 
FLNA $ 5,979 $ 5,731 $ 665 §$ 801 $ 608 
QFNA 804 811 44 41 40 
NAB 28,592 28,172 904 769 695 
Latin America 4,976 4,568 481 507 368 
ESSA 13,556 12,302 481 439 404 
AMENA 5,668 5,261 308 381 441 
Total division 59,575 56,845 2,883 2,938 2,556 
Corporate 20,229 16,645 86 102 202 


(a) Corporate assets consist principally of certain cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, derivative instruments, property, plant 
and equipment and tax assets. In 2017, the change in total Corporate assets was primarily due to an increase in short-term investments and 
cash and cash equivalents. 


Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation and other amortization of each division are as follows: 


Amortization of Depreciation and 

Intangible Assets Other Amortization 
2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 
FLNA $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 449 $ 435 $ 427 
QFNA — — — 47 50 51 
NAB 31 37 38 780 809 813 
Latin America 5 5 7 245 211 238 
ESSA 22 18 20 329 321 353 
AMENA 3 3 3 257 294 293 
Total division 68 70 715 2,107 2,120 2,175 
Corporate —_— — — 194 178 166 
$ 68 $ 70 $ 715 $ 2,301 $ 2,298 $ 2,341 


Net revenue and long-lived assets by country are as follows: 


Net Revenue Long-Lived Assets” 

2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 
United States $ 36,546 $ 36,732 $ 35,266 $ 28,418 $ 28,382 
Mexico 3,650 3,431 3,687 1,205 998 
Russia ” 3,232 2,648 2,797 4,708 4,373 
Canada 2,691 2,692 2,677 2,739 2,499 
United Kingdom 1,650 1,737 1,966 817 852 
Brazil 1,427 1,305 1,289 777 796 
All other countries 14,329 14,254 15,374 9,200 8,504 


(a) Long-lived assets represent property, plant and equipment, nonamortizable intangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and investments 
in noncontrolled affiliates. These assets are reported in the country where they are primarily used. 
(b) Change in net revenue and long-lived assets in 2017 primarily reflects appreciation of the Russian ruble. 


Venezuela 


Due to exchange restrictions and other conditions that significantly impact our ability to effectively manage 
our businesses in Venezuela and realize earnings generated by our Venezuelan businesses, effective at the 
end of the third quarter of 2015, we deconsolidated our Venezuelan subsidiaries and began accounting for 
our investments in our Venezuelan subsidiaries and joint venture using the cost method of accounting. We 
recorded pre- and after-tax charges of $1.4 billion in our income statement to reduce the value of the cost 
method investments to their estimated fair values, resulting in a full impairment. The factors that led to our 
conclusions at the end of the third quarter of 2015 continued to exist through the end of 2017. 


We do not have any guarantees related to our Venezuelan entities, and our ongoing contractual commitments 
to our Venezuelan businesses are not material. We will recognize income from dividends and sales of inventory 
to our Venezuelan entities, which have not been and are not expected to be material, to the extent cash in 
U.S. dollars is received. We have not received any cash in U.S. dollars from our Venezuelan entities since 
our deconsolidation at the end of the third quarter of 2015. We continue to monitor the conditions in Venezuela 
and their impact on our accounting and disclosures. For further unaudited information, see “Our Business 
Risks,” “Items Affecting Comparability” and “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Management’s 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


Note 2 — Our Significant Accounting Policies 


Revenue Recognition 


We recognize revenue upon shipment or delivery to our customers based on written sales terms that do not 
allow for a right of return. However, our policy for DSD and certain chilled products is to remove and replace 
damaged and out-of-date products from store shelves to ensure that consumers receive the product quality 
and freshness they expect. Similarly, our policy for certain warehouse-distributed products is to replace 
damaged and out-of-date products. As a result, we record reserves, based on estimates, for anticipated 
damaged and out-of-date products. 


Our products are sold for cash or on credit terms. Our credit terms, which are established in accordance with 
local and industry practices, typically require payment within 30 days of delivery in the United States, and 
generally within 30 to 90 days internationally, and may allow discounts for early payment. 


We estimate and reserve for our bad debt exposure based on our experience with past due accounts and 
collectibility, the aging of accounts receivable and our analysis of customer data. Bad debt expense is classified 
within selling, general and administrative expenses in our income statement. 


87 


We are exposed to concentration of credit risk from our major customers, including Walmart. In 2017, sales 
to Walmart (including Sam’s) represented approximately 13% of our consolidated net revenue, including 
concentrate sales to our independent bottlers, which were used in finished goods sold by them to Walmart. 
We have not experienced credit issues with these customers. 


Total Marketplace Spending 


We offer sales incentives and discounts through various programs to customers and consumers. Total 
marketplace spending includes sales incentives, discounts, advertising and other marketing activities. Sales 
incentives and discounts are primarily accounted for as a reduction of revenue and include payments to 
customers for performing activities on our behalf, such as payments for in-store displays, payments to gain 
distribution of new products, payments for shelf space and discounts to promote lower retail prices. Sales 
incentives and discounts also include support provided to our independent bottlers. 


Anumber of our sales incentives, such as bottler funding to independent bottlers and customer volume rebates, 
are based on annual targets, and accruals are established during the year for the expected payout. These 
accruals are based on contract terms and our historical experience with similar programs and require 
management judgment with respect to estimating customer participation and performance levels. Differences 
between estimated expense and actual incentive costs are normally insignificant and are recognized in 
earnings in the period such differences are determined. In addition, certain advertising and marketing costs 
are also based on annual targets and recognized during the year as incurred. The terms of most of our incentive 
arrangements do not exceed a year, and, therefore, do not require highly uncertain long-term estimates. 
Certain arrangements, such as fountain pouring rights, may extend beyond one year. Up-front payments to 
customers under these arrangements are recognized over the shorter of the economic or contractual life, 
primarily as a reduction of revenue, and the remaining balances of $262 million as of December 30, 2017 
and $291 million as of December 31, 2016 are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and 
other assets on our balance sheet. For additional unaudited information on our sales incentives, see “Our 
Customers” in “Item 1. Business” and “Our Critical Accounting Policies” in Management’s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


For interim reporting, our policy is to allocate our forecasted full-year sales incentives for most of our 
programs to each of our interim reporting periods in the same year that benefits from the programs. The 
allocation methodology is based on our forecasted sales incentives for the full year and the proportion of 
each interim period’s actual gross revenue or volume, as applicable, to our forecasted annual gross revenue 
or volume, as applicable. Based on our review of the forecasts at each interim period, any changes in estimates 
and the related allocation of sales incentives are recognized beginning in the interim period that they are 
identified. In addition, we apply a similar allocation methodology for interim reporting purposes for certain 
advertising and other marketing activities. Our annual financial statements are not impacted by this interim 
allocation methodology. 


Advertising and other marketing activities, reported as selling, general and administrative expenses, totaled 
$4.1 billion in 2017, $4.2 billion in 2016 and $3.9 billion in 2015, including advertising expenses of $2.4 
billion in 2017, $2.5 billion in 2016 and $2.4 billion in 2015. Deferred advertising costs are not expensed 
until the year first used and consist of: 

* media and personal service prepayments; 

* promotional materials in inventory; and 

* production costs of future media advertising. 


Deferred advertising costs of $46 million and $32 million as of December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, 
respectively, are classified as prepaid expenses and other current assets on our balance sheet. 


88 


Distribution Costs 


Distribution costs, including the costs of shipping and handling activities, which include certain 
merchandising activities, are reported as selling, general and administrative expenses. Shipping and handling 
expenses were $9.9 billion in 2017, $9.7 billion in 2016 and $9.4 billion in 2015. 


Cash Equivalents 
Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. 


Software Costs 


We capitalize certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with 
developing or obtaining computer software for internal use when both the preliminary project stage is 
completed and it is probable that the software will be used as intended. Capitalized software costs include 
(i) external direct costs of materials and services utilized in developing or obtaining computer software, 
(ii) compensation and related benefits for employees who are directly associated with the software projects 
and (iii) interest costs incurred while developing internal-use computer software. Capitalized software costs 
are included in property, plant and equipment on our balance sheet and amortized on a straight-line basis 
when placed into service over the estimated useful lives of the software, which approximate five to 10 years. 
Software amortization totaled $224 million in 2017, $214 million in 2016 and $202 million in 2015. Net 
capitalized software and development costs were $686 million and $791 million as of December 30, 2017 
and December 31, 2016, respectively. 


Commitments and Contingencies 


We are subject to various claims and contingencies related to lawsuits, certain taxes and environmental 
matters, as well as commitments under contractual and other commercial obligations. We recognize liabilities 
for contingencies and commitments when a loss is probable and estimable. For additional unaudited 
information on our commitments, see “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Management’s Discussion 
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


Research and Development 


We engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to invest to accelerate growth 
and to drive innovation globally. Consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and 
included in other marketing costs. Research and development costs were $737 million, $760 million and 
$754 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and are reported within selling, general and administrative 
expenses. 


See “Research and Development” in “Item 1. Business” for additional unaudited information about our 
research and development activities. 


Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 


Indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized and are assessed for impairment at least 
annually, using either a qualitative or quantitative approach. We perform this annual assessment during our 
third quarter. Where we use the qualitative assessment, first we determine if, based on qualitative factors, it 
is more likely than not that an impairment exists. Factors considered include macroeconomic, industry and 
competitive conditions, legal and regulatory environment, historical financial performance and significant 
changes in the brand or reporting unit. If the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely than not 
that an impairment exists, then a quantitative assessment is performed. 


In the quantitative assessment of indefinite-lived intangible assets, if the carrying amount of the indefinite- 

lived intangible asset exceeds its estimated fair value, as determined by its discounted cash flows, an 

impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Quantitative assessment of goodwill is 

performed using a two-step impairment test at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit can be a division or 
89 


business within a division. The first step compares the carrying value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, 
with its estimated fair value, as determined by its discounted cash flows. If the carrying value of a reporting 
unit exceeds its estimated fair value, we complete the second step to determine the amount of goodwill 
impairment loss that we should record, if any. In the second step, we determine an implied fair value of the 
reporting unit’s goodwill by allocating the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and 
liabilities other than goodwill (including any unrecognized intangible assets). The amount of impairment 
loss is equal to the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. 
The quantitative assessment described above requires an analysis of several estimates including future cash 
flows or income consistent with management’s strategic business plans, annual sales growth rates, perpetuity 
growth assumptions and the selection of assumptions underlying a discount rate (weighted average cost of 
capital) based on market data available at the time. Significant management judgment is necessary to estimate 
the impact of competitive operating, macroeconomic and other factors to estimate future levels of sales, 
operating profit or cash flows. All assumptions used in our impairment evaluations for nonamortizable 
intangible assets, such as forecasted growth rates and weighted-average cost of capital, are based on the best 
available market information and are consistent with our internal forecasts and operating plans. 


Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating 
or macroeconomic environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted future cash flows indicates impairment, 
the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on its discounted future cash flows. 


See also Note 4, and for additional unaudited information on goodwill and other intangible assets, see “Our 
Critical Accounting Policies” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 
of Operations. 


Other Significant Accounting Policies 
Our other significant accounting policies are disclosed as follows: 


¢ Basis of Presentation — Note 1 - Basis of Presentation for a description of our policies regarding use 
of estimates, basis of presentation and consolidation. 

¢ Property, Plant and Equipment — Note 4. 

* Income Taxes — Note 5, and for additional unaudited information, see “Our Critical Accounting 
Policies” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations. 

¢ Share-Based Compensation — Note 6. 

¢ Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans — Note 7, and for additional unaudited information, see 
“Our Critical Accounting Policies” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and Results of Operations. 

¢ Financial Instruments — Note 9, and for additional unaudited information, see “Our Business Risks” 
in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

¢ Inventories — Note 13. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is 
determined using the average; first-in, first-out (FIFO) or last-in, first-out (LIFO) methods. 

¢ Translation of Financial Statements of Foreign Subsidiaries — Financial statements of foreign 
subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using period-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities 
and weighted-average exchange rates for revenues and expenses. Adjustments resulting from 
translating net assets are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss 
within common shareholders’ equity as currency translation adjustment. 


Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements - Adopted 


In 2017, the SEC issued guidance related to the TCJ Act which allows recording of provisional tax expense 
using a measurement period, not to exceed one year, when information necessary to complete the accounting 


90 


for the effects of the TCJ Act is not available. We elected to apply the measurement period provisions of this 
guidance to certain income tax effects of the TCJ Act when it became effective during our fourth quarter of 
2017, resulting in a provisional net tax expense of $2.5 billion. This provisional net tax expense was recorded 
based on information available to us prior to the issuance of our 2017 consolidated financial statements, may 
be subject to further revision as disclosed in Note 5, and will be finalized no later than the end of 2018. 


In 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance that changes the accounting for 
certain aspects of share-based payments to employees. We adopted the provisions of this guidance during 
our first quarter of 2017, resulting in the following impacts to our financial statements: 


¢ Income tax effects of vested or settled awards were recognized in the provision for income taxes on 
our income statement on a prospective basis. Previously, these tax effects were recorded on our equity 
statement in capital in excess of par value. For the year ended December 30, 2017, our excess tax 
benefits were $115 million, resulting in a $0.08 increase to diluted net income attributable to PepsiCo 
per common share. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015, our excess tax 
benefits recognized were $110 million and $107 million, respectively. If we had applied this standard 
in 2016 and 2015, there would have been a $0.07 increase to diluted net income attributable to PepsiCo 
per common share for both years. The ongoing impact on our financial statements is dependent on 
the timing of when awards vest or are exercised, our tax rate and the intrinsic value when awards 
vest or are exercised. 


¢ Excess tax benefits are retrospectively presented within operating activities and withholding tax 
payments upon vesting of RSUs, PSUs and PEPunits are retrospectively presented within financing 
activities in the cash flow statement. The adoption resulted in an increase of $295 million, $269 
million and $284 million in our operating cash flow with a corresponding decrease in our financing 
cash flow for the years ended December 30, 2017, December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015, 
respectively. 


The guidance also allows for the employer to repurchase more of an employee’s shares, up to the maximum 
statutory rate, for tax withholding purposes and not classify the award as a liability that requires valuation 
ona mark-to-market basis. Our accounting treatment for outstanding awards was not impacted by our adoption 
of this provision. In addition, the guidance allows for a policy election to account for forfeitures as they 
occur. We will continue to apply our policy of estimating forfeitures. 


In 2016, the FASB issued guidance that eliminates the requirement that an investor retrospectively apply 
equity method accounting for an investment originally accounted for by another method. The guidance 
requires that an equity method investor add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the 
current basis of the investor’s previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the 
date the investor’s ability to exercise significant influence over the investment is achieved. We adopted the 
provisions of this guidance prospectively during our first quarter of 2017; the adoption did not impact our 
financial statements. 


In 2015, the FASB issued guidance that requires companies to classify all deferred tax assets and liabilities 
as noncurrent on the balance sheet. We adopted the provisions of this guidance retrospectively during our 
first quarter of 2017, resulting in the reclassification of $639 million of deferred taxes from current to non- 
current on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2016. 


Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements - Not Yet Adopted 


In 2017, the FASB issued guidance to amend and simplify the application of hedge accounting guidance to 

better portray the economic results of risk management activities in the financial statements. The guidance 

expands the ability to hedge nonfinancial and financial risk components, reduces complexity in fair value 

hedges of interest rate risk, eliminates the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness, 

as well as eases certain hedge effectiveness assessment requirements. The guidance is effective beginning 
91 


in 2019 with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance, including 
transition elections and required disclosures, on our financial statements and the timing of adoption. 


In 2017, the FASB issued guidance that requires companies to retrospectively present the service cost 
component of net periodic benefit cost for pension and retiree medical plans along with other compensation 
costs in operating profit and present the other components of net periodic benefit cost below operating profit 
in the income statement. The guidance also allows only the service cost component of net periodic benefit 
cost to be eligible for capitalization within inventory or fixed assets on a prospective basis. We will adopt 
the guidance when it becomes effective in the first quarter of 2018. We will also update our allocation of 
service costs to our divisions starting in 2018 to better approximate actual service cost. In connection with 
this adoption, we expect to record a decrease in operating profit of $233 million for the year ended December 
30, 2017 and an increase in operating profit of $19 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily 
impacting selling, general and administrative expenses. See Note 7 for further information on our service 
cost and other components of net periodic benefit cost for pension and retiree medical plans. 


In 2016, the FASB issued guidance to clarify how restricted cash should be presented in the cash flow 
statement. We will adopt the guidance when it becomes effective in the first quarter of 2018. The guidance 
is not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements. 


In 2016, the FASB issued guidance that requires companies to account for the income tax effects of 
intercompany transfers of assets, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs versus deferring income tax 
effects until the transferred asset is sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized. We will adopt the 
guidance when it becomes effective in the first quarter of 2018. The guidance is not expected to have a 
material impact on our financial statements. 


In 2016, the FASB issued guidance that requires lessees to recognize most leases on the balance sheet, but 
record expenses on the income statement in a manner similar to current accounting. For lessors, the guidance 
modifies the classification criteria and the accounting for sales-type and direct financing leases. The guidance 
is effective beginning in 2019 with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this 
guidance on our financial statements and related disclosures, including the increase in the assets and liabilities 
on our balance sheet and the impact on our current lease portfolio from both a lessor and lessee perspective. 
To facilitate this, we are utilizing a comprehensive approach to review our lease portfolio, as well as assessing 
system requirements and control implications. We have identified our significant leases by geography and 
by asset type that will be impacted by the new guidance, as well as a software tool to begin tracking the 
requirements of the guidance. In addition, we are currently evaluating the timing of adoption of this guidance. 
See Note 13 for our minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases. 


In 2016, the FASB issued guidance that requires companies to measure investments in certain equity securities 
at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income. We will adopt the guidance when it 
becomes effective in the first quarter of 2018. The guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our 
financial statements. In the second quarter of 2017, we sold our minority stake in Britvic, representing all of 
our available-for-sale equity securities, which reduced the risk and volatility of these investments in our 
income statement in the future. See Note 9 for further information on our available-for-sale securities. 


In 2014, the FASB issued guidance on revenue recognition, with final amendments issued in 2016. The 
guidance provides for a five-step model to determine the revenue recognized for the transfer of goods or 
services to customers that reflects the expected entitled consideration in exchange for those goods or services. 
It also provides clarification for principal versus agent considerations and identifying performance 
obligations. In addition, the FASB introduced practical expedients related to disclosures of remaining 
performance obligations, as well as other amendments related to guidance on collectibility, non-cash 
consideration and the presentation of sales and other similar taxes. Financial statement disclosures required 
under the guidance will enable users to understand the nature, amount, timing, judgments and uncertainty 
of revenue and cash flows relating to customer contracts. The two permitted transition methods under the 


92 


guidance are the full retrospective approach or a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening retained earnings 
in the year of adoption (cumulative effect approach). We will adopt the guidance using the cumulative effect 
approach when it becomes effective in the first quarter of 2018. 


We are utilizing a comprehensive approach to assess the impact of the guidance on our contract portfolio by 
reviewing our current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that would result 
from applying the new requirements to our revenue contracts, including evaluation of our performance 
obligations, principal versus agent considerations and variable consideration. We are substantially complete 
with our contract and business process reviews and implemented changes to our controls to support 
recognition and disclosures under the new guidance. As a result of implementing certain changes to our 
accounting policies upon adoption, we plan to record an adjustment to opening retained earnings to reflect 
marketplace spending that our customers and independent bottlers expect to be entitled to in line with revenue 
recognition; exclude all sales, use, value-added and certain excise taxes assessed by governmental authorities 
on revenue-producing transactions from net revenue and cost of sales; and to record shipping and handling 
activities that are performed after a customer obtains control of the product as a fulfillment cost. Based on 
the foregoing, we currently do not expect this guidance to have a material impact on our financial statements 
or disclosures. 


Note 3 — Restructuring and Impairment Charges 


A summary of our restructuring and impairment charges and other productivity initiatives is as follows: 


2017 2016 2015 

2014 Productivity Plan $ 295 $ 160 $ 169 

2012 Productivity Plan —_— — 61 

Total restructuring and impairment charges 295 160 230 

Other productivity initiatives 16 12 90 
Total restructuring and impairment charges and other 

productivity initiatives $ 311 $ 172 $ 320 


2014 Multi-Year Productivity Plan 


The 2014 Productivity Plan, publicly announced on February 13, 2014, includes the next generation of 
productivity initiatives that we believe will strengthen our food, snack and beverage businesses by: 
accelerating our investment in manufacturing automation; further optimizing our global manufacturing 
footprint, including closing certain manufacturing facilities; re-engineering our go-to-market systems in 
developed markets; expanding shared services; and implementing simplified organization structures to drive 
efficiency. To build on the successful implementation of the 2014 Productivity Plan to date, we expanded 
and extended the program through the end of 2019 to take advantage of additional opportunities within the 
initiatives described above to further strengthen our food, snack and beverage businesses. 


In 2017, 2016 and 2015, we incurred restructuring charges of $295 million ($224 million after-tax or $0.16 
per share), $160 million ($131 million after-tax or $0.09 per share) and $169 million ($134 million after-tax 
or $0.09 per share), respectively, in conjunction with our 2014 Productivity Plan. All of these charges were 
recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses and primarily relate to severance and other employee- 
related costs, asset impairments (all non-cash), and other costs associated with the implementation of our 
initiatives, including contract termination costs. Substantially all of the restructuring accrual at December 30, 
2017 is expected to be paid by the end of 2018. 


93 


Asummary of our 2014 Productivity Plan charges is as follows: 


2017 2016 2015 
Severance Severance Severance 
and Other and Other and Other 
Employee Asset Other Employee Asset Other Employee Asset Other 
Costs Impairments Costs Total Costs Impairments Costs _ Total Costs Impairments Costs Total 


QFNA 


—_ 
= 
| 
| 
—_ 
= 
| 
| 
an 
a 
| 
| 
Ww 
w 


Latin America “ 


un 
x 
~~ 
a 
> 
an 
Ss 
= 
a 
w 
ie) 
Re} 
> 
S 
LY 
uN 
x 
ie) 
= 
o 
_ 
a 
NN 
oo 


AMENA”? 2 = (5) (6)) 


& 
a 
= 
i 
ie) 
) 
e 
Co 


$ 280 $ 21 $ (6) $295 $ 88 § 36 $ 36 $160 $ 59 §$ 24 $ 86 $169 


(a) Income amounts represent adjustments for changes in estimates. 
(b) Income amount primarily reflects a gain on the sale of property, plant and equipment. 


Since the inception of the 2014 Productivity Plan, we incurred restructuring charges of $1,034 million: 


2014 Productivity Plan Costs to Date 


Severance 
and Other Asset 
Employee Costs Impairments Other Costs Total 
QFNA 26 — 6 32 
Latin America 109 29 14 152 
AMENA 23 6 15 44 


$ 627 $ 154 $ 253 $ 1,034 


Asummary of our 2014 Productivity Plan activity is as follows: 


Severance 
and Other Asset 
Employee Costs Impairments Other Costs Total 


n 
Ne} 
iw) 
NG 
oo 
lon 


2015 restructuring charges 169 


Non-cash charges and translation (11) (24) (3) (38) 


le,e) 
oo 
Ww 
n 
Ww 
n 


2016 restructuring charges 160 


Non-cash charges and translation (15) (36) 


e 


(50) 


N 
oo 
oO 
N 
pany 
N 
\o 
Nn 


2017 restructuring charges (6) 


Non-cash charges and translation (65) (21) 


w 
R 


(52) 


94 


2012 Multi-Year Productivity Plan 


The 2012 Productivity Plan, publicly announced on February 9, 2012, included actions in every aspect of 
our business that we believe would strengthen our complementary food, snack and beverage businesses. 


In 2015, we incurred restructuring charges of $61 million ($50 million after-tax or $0.03 per share) in 
conjunction with our 2012 Productivity Plan. All of these charges were recorded in selling, general and 
administrative expenses and primarily related to severance and other employee-related costs, asset 
impairments (all non-cash) and contract termination costs. The 2012 Productivity Plan was completed in 
2016 and all cash payments were paid by the end of 2016. 


A summary of our 2012 Productivity Plan charges in 2015 is as follows: 


Severance 
and Other 
Employee Costs Asset Impairments Other Costs Total 
FLNA $ — $ — $ = § = 
QFNA — — — —_ 
NAB — — 2 2 
Latin America 6 1 1 8 
ESSA 15 — 12 Pil 
AMENA 15 3 2 20 
Corporate 3 — 1 4 
$ 39 §$ 4 $ 18 $ 61 
Since the inception of the 2012 Productivity Plan, we incurred restructuring charges of $894 million: 
2012 Productivity Plan Costs to Date 
Severance 
and Other Asset 
Employee Costs Impairments Other Costs Total 
FLNA $ 91 $ 8 §$ D&S 124 
QFNA 18 — 10 28 
NAB 107 44 48 199 
Latin America 98 11 18 127 
ESSA 136 73} 66 225 
AMENA 75 5 17 97 
Corporate 35 — 59) 94 
$ 560 $ 91 §$ 243 $ 894 
A summary of our 2012 Productivity Plan activity is as follows: 
Severance 
and Other 
Employee Costs Asset Impairments Other Costs Total 
Liability as of December 27, 2014 $ 28 $ — §$ 5 $ 33 
2015 restructuring charges 39 4 18 61 
Cash payments (24) — (21) (45) 
Non-cash charges and translation (8) (4) 1 (11) 
Liability as of December 26, 2015 35 — 3 38 
Cash payments (28) — (2) (30) 
Non-cash charges and translation (7) — (1) (8) 
Liability as of December 31, 2016 $ — $ — §$ — $ — 


95 


Other Productivity Initiatives 


There were no material charges related to other productivity and efficiency initiatives outside the scope of 
the 2014 and 2012 Productivity Plans in 2017 and 2016. In 2015, we incurred charges of $90 million ($66 
million after-tax or $0.04 per share) related to other productivity and efficiency initiatives outside the scope 
of the 2014 and 2012 Productivity Plans. These charges were recorded in selling, general and administrative 
expenses and primarily reflect severance and other employee-related costs and asset impairments (all non- 
cash). These initiatives were not included in items affecting comparability. 


We regularly evaluate different productivity initiatives beyond the productivity plans and other initiatives 
described above. 


See additional unaudited information in “Items Affecting Comparability” and “Results of Operations — 
Division Review” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations. 


Note 4 — Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets 


A summary of our property, plant and equipment is as follows: 


Average 
Useful Life 
(Years) 2017 2016 2015 
Property, plant and equipment, net 
Land $ 1,148 $ = 1,153 
Buildings and improvements 15 - 44 8,796 8,306 
Machinery and equipment, including fleet and software 5-15 27,018 25,277 
Construction in progress 2,144 2,082 
39,106 36,818 
Accumulated depreciation (21,866) (20,227) 
‘$17,240 $16,591 
Depreciation expense 8 Day 8 27 $ 2,248 


Property, plant and equipment is recorded at historical cost. Depreciation and amortization are recognized 
on a straight-line basis over an asset’s estimated useful life. Land is not depreciated and construction in 
progress is not depreciated until ready for service. 


A summary of our amortizable intangible assets is as follows: 


2017 2016 2015 
Average 
Useful Life Accumulated Accumulated 
Amortizable intangible assets, net (Years) Gross Amortization Net Gross Amortization Net 
Acquired franchise rights 56-60 $ 858 $ (128) $ 730 $ 827 $ (108) $ 719 
Reacquired franchise rights 5-14 106 (104) 2 106 (102) 4 
Brands 20-40 1,322 (1,026) 296 2 (977) 300 
Other identifiable intangibles 10-24 521 (281) 240 522 (308) 214 
$ 2,807 $ (1,539) $ 1,268 $ 2,732 $ (1,495) $ 1,237 
Amortization expense $ 68 $ 70 $ 75 


Amortization of intangible assets for each of the next five years, based on existing intangible assets as of 
December 30, 2017 and using average 2017 foreign exchange rates, is expected to be as follows: 


2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 


Five-year projected amortization $ 69 «§ 64 $ 64 § 62 = §$ 60 


Depreciable and amortizable assets are evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating 
or macroeconomic environment. In these circumstances, if an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows 
indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on discounted future 
cash flows. Useful lives are periodically evaluated to determine whether events or circumstances have 
occurred which indicate the need for revision. For additional unaudited information on our policies for 
amortizable brands, see “Our Critical Accounting Policies” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


Nonamortizable Intangible Assets 


We did not recognize any impairment charges for goodwill in each of the fiscal years ended December 30, 
2017, December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015. We recognized no material impairment charges 
for nonamortizable intangible assets in each of the fiscal years ended December 30, 2017, December 31, 
2016 and December 26, 2015. As of December 30, 2017, the estimated fair values of our indefinite-lived 
reacquired and acquired franchise rights recorded at NAB exceeded their carrying values. However, there 
could be an impairment of the carrying value of NAB’s reacquired and acquired franchise rights if future 
revenues and their contribution to the operating results of NAB’s CSD business do not achieve our expected 
future cash flows or if macroeconomic conditions result in a future increase in the weighted-average cost of 
capital used to estimate fair value. We have also analyzed the impact of the macroeconomic conditions in 
Russia and Brazil on the estimated fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets in these countries and 
have concluded that there is no impairment as of December 30, 2017. However, there could be an impairment 
of the carrying value of certain brands in these countries if there is a deterioration in these conditions, if future 
revenues and their contributions to the operating results do not achieve our expected future cash flows or if 
macroeconomic conditions result in a future increase in the weighted-average cost of capital used to estimate 
fair value. For additional information on our policies for nonamortizable intangible assets, see Note 2. 


97 


The change in the book value of nonamortizable intangible assets is as follows: 


Balance, 7 Balance, . Balance, 
Beginnin Translation End of Translation End of 


2016 and Other 2016 and Other 2017 


Goodwill 267 $ 270 $ 10 


Ff 


280 


289 


& 


293 


a 
N 


305 


Goodwill 175 175 175 


Goodwill ® 


Acquired franchise rights 


18,411 322 18,733 125 18,858 


Goodwill 521 


we 
i) 
nn 
Nn 
ies) 
No 
un 
nn 
un 


A 
n 


Goodwill 3,042 135 3,177 
Acquired franchise rights 190 (6) 184 


= 
a 


Goodwill 418 (6) 412 428 


523 515 


to 
a 


539 


=> 
oo 
~S 


Total goodwill 14,177 253 14,430 314 14,744 


Total acquired franchise rights 1,697 (1) 1,696 24 1,720 


$ 25,988 $ 638 $ 26,626 $ 688 $ 27,314 


(a) The change in 2016 is primarily related to our acquisition of KeVita, Inc. 
(b) The change in 2017 primarily reflects the currency appreciation of the Russian ruble and euro. The change in 2016 primarily reflects the 
currency appreciation of the Russian ruble. 


98 


Note 5 — Income Taxes 


The components of income before income taxes are as follows: 


2017 2016 2015 
United States $ 3,452 2,630 2,879 
Foreign 6,150 5,923 4,563 
$ 9,602 $ 8,553 $ 7,442 
The provision for income taxes consisted of the following: 
2017 2016 2015 
Current: $ 4,925 1,219 1,143 
Foreign 724 824 773 
State 136 Tl 65 
5,785 2,120 1,981 
Deferred: U.S. Federal (1,159) 109 (14) 
Foreign (9) (33) (32) 
State 77 (22) 6 
(1,091) 54 (40) 


$ 4694 $ 2,174 $ 1,941 


A reconciliation of the U.S. Federal statutory tax rate to our annual tax rate is as follows: 


2017 2016 2015 
U.S. Federal statutory tax rate 35.0% 35.0% 35.0% 
State income tax, net of U.S. Federal tax benefit 0.9 0.4 0.6 
Lower taxes on foreign results (9.4) (8.0) (10.5) 
Impact of Venezuela impairment charges —_— — 6.4 
Provisional one-time mandatory transition tax - TCJ Act 41.4 — — 
Provisional remeasurement of deferred taxes - TCJ Act (15.9) — — 
Tax settlements — — (3.1) 
Other, net (3.1) (2.0) (2.3) 
Annual tax rate 48.9% 25.4% 26.1% 


Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 


During the fourth quarter of 2017, the TCJ Act was enacted in the United States. Among its many provisions, 
the TCJ Act imposed a mandatory one-time transition tax on undistributed international earnings and reduced 
the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018. As a result of the enactment 
of the TCJ Act, we recognized a provisional net tax expense of $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2017. See 
further unaudited information in “Items Affecting Comparability” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis 
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


Included in the provisional net tax expense of $2.5 billion is a provisional mandatory one-time transition tax 
of approximately $4 billion on undistributed international earnings, included in other liabilities. This 
provisional mandatory one-time transition tax was partially offset by a provisional $1.5 billion benefit 
resulting from the required remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to the new, lower U.S. 
corporate income tax rate, effective January 1, 2018. The effect of the remeasurement was recorded in the 
fourth quarter of 2017, consistent with the enactment date of the TCJ Act, and reflected in our provision for 
income taxes. 


99 


The TCJ Act also creates a new requirement that certain income earned by foreign subsidiaries, known as 
GILTI, must be included in the gross income of their U.S. shareholder. The FASB allows an accounting 
policy election of either recognizing deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to reverse as GILTI 
in future years or recognizing such taxes as a current-period expense when incurred. Due to the complexity 
of calculating GILTI under the new law, we have not determined which method we will apply. Therefore, 
we have not made any adjustments related to potential GILTI tax in our financial statements. We expect to 
elect an accounting policy in the first quarter of 2018. 


The components of the provisional net tax expense recorded in 2017 are based on currently available 
information and additional information needs to be prepared, obtained and/or analyzed to determine the final 
amounts. The provisional tax expense for the mandatory repatriation of undistributed international earnings 
will require further analysis of certain foreign exchange gains or losses, substantiation of foreign tax credits, 
as well as estimated cash and cash equivalents as of November 30, 2018, the tax year-end of our foreign 
subsidiaries. The provisional tax benefit for the remeasurement of deferred taxes will require additional 
information necessary for the preparation of our U.S. federal tax return, and further analysis and interpretation 
of certain provisions of the TCJ Act impacting deferred taxes, for example 100% expensing of qualified 
assets as well as our accounting policy election for recognizing deferred taxes for GILTI, could impact our 
deferred tax balance as of December 30, 2017. 


Tax effects for these items will be recorded in subsequent quarters, as discrete adjustments to our income 
tax provision, once complete. The SEC has issued guidance that allows for a measurement period of up to 
one year after the enactment date of the TCJ Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts. We 
currently anticipate finalizing and recording any resulting adjustments by the end of 2018. 


The recorded impact of the TCJ Act is provisional and the final amount may differ, possibly materially, due 
to, among other things, changes in estimates, interpretations and assumptions we have made, changes in IRS 
interpretations, the issuance of new guidance, legislative actions, changes in accounting standards or related 
interpretations in response to the TCJ Act and future actions by states within the United States that have not 
currently adopted the TCJ Act. 


For further unaudited information and discussion of the potential impact of the TCJ Act, refer to “Item 1A. 
Risk Factors,” “Our Business Risks,” “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Our Critical Accounting 
Policies” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


100 


Deferred tax liabilities and assets are comprised of the following: 


Deferred Tax Liabilities 
2017 2016 
Debt guarantee of wholly-owned subsidiary $ 578 $ 839 
Property, plant and equipment 1,397 1,967 
Intangible assets other than nondeductible goodwill 3,169 4,124 
Other 50 245 
Gross deferred tax liabilities 5,194 VMAS 
Deferred tax assets 
Net carryforwards 1,400 1,255 
Share-based compensation 107 219 
Retiree medical benefits 198 316 
Other employee-related benefits 338 614 
Pension benefits 22 419 
Deductible state tax and interest benefits 157 189 
Other 893 839 
Gross deferred tax assets 3,115 3,851 
Valuation allowances (1,163) (1,110) 
Deferred tax assets, net 1,952 2,741 
Net deferred tax liabilities $ 3,242 $ 4,434 
A summary of our valuation allowance activity is as follows: 
2017 2016 2015 
Balance, beginning of year $ 1,110 $ 1,136 $ 1,230 
Provision/(benefit) 33 13 (26) 
Other additions/(deductions) 20 (39) (68) 
Balance, end of year $ 1,163 $ 1,110 $ 1,136 


For additional unaudited information on our income tax policies, including our reserves for income taxes, 
see “Our Critical Accounting Policies” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and Results of Operations. 


Reserves 


A number of years may elapse before a particular matter, for which we have established a reserve, is audited 
and finally resolved. The number of years with open tax audits varies depending on the tax jurisdiction. Our 
major taxing jurisdictions and the related open tax audits are as follows: 


Years Currently 


Jurisdiction Years Open to Audit Under Audit 
United States 2012-2016 2012-2013 
Mexico 2014-2016 2014 

United Kingdom 2014-2016 None 

Canada (Domestic) 2013-2016 2013-2014 
Canada (International) 2010-2016 2010-2014 
Russia 2012-2016 2012-2016 


While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter, 

we believe that our reserves reflect the probable outcome of known tax contingencies. We adjust these 

reserves, as well as the related interest, in light of changing facts and circumstances. Settlement of any 
101 


particular issue would usually require the use of cash. Favorable resolution would be recognized as areduction 
to our annual tax rate in the year of resolution. For further unaudited information on the impact of the resolution 
of open tax issues, see “Other Consolidated Results” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations. 


In 2015, we reached an agreement with the IRS resolving substantially all open matters related to the audits 
of taxable years 2010 and 2011. The agreement resulted in a 2015 non-cash tax benefit totaling $230 million. 


As of December 30, 2017, the total gross amount of reserves for income taxes, reported in other liabilities, 
was $2.2 billion. We accrue interest related to reserves for income taxes in our provision for income taxes 
and any associated penalties are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. The gross amount 
of interest accrued, reported in other liabilities, was $283 million as of December 30, 2017, of which $89 
million of expense was recognized in 2017. The gross amount of interest accrued, reported in other liabilities, 
was $193 million as of December 31, 2016, of which $61 million of expense was recognized in 2016. 


A reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits, is as follows: 


2017 2016 
Balance, beginning of year $ 1,885 $ 1,547 
Additions for tax positions related to the current year 309 349 
Additions for tax positions from prior years 86 139 
Reductions for tax positions from prior years (51) (70) 
Settlement payments (4) (26) 
Statutes of limitations expiration (33) (27) 
Translation and other 20 (27) 
Balance, end of year $ 2,212 $ 1,885 


Carryforwards and Allowances 


Operating loss carryforwards totaling $12.6 billion at year-end 2017 are being carried forward in a number 
of foreign and state jurisdictions where we are permitted to use tax operating losses from prior periods to 
reduce future taxable income. These operating losses will expire as follows: $0.2 billion in 2018, $11.1 billion 
between 2019 and 2037 and $1.3 billion may be carried forward indefinitely. We establish valuation 
allowances for our deferred tax assets if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some 
portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. 


Undistributed International Earnings 


As of December 30, 2017, we had approximately $42.5 billion of undistributed international earnings. We 
intend to repatriate approximately $20 billion of our foreign earnings back to the United States and have 
recognized all tax expense on these earnings in the fourth quarter of 2017. We intend to continue to reinvest 
the remaining $22.5 billion of earnings outside the United States for the foreseeable future and while U.S. 
federal tax expense has been recognized as a result of the TCJ Act, no deferred tax liabilities with respect to 
items such as certain foreign exchange gains or losses, foreign withholding taxes or state taxes have been 
recognized. Itis not practicable for us to determine the amount of unrecognized tax expense on these reinvested 
international earnings. 


Note 6 — Share-Based Compensation 


Our share-based compensation program is designed to attract and retain employees while also aligning 
employees’ interests with the interests of our shareholders. PepsiCo has granted stock options, RSUs, PSUs, 
PEPunits and long-term cash awards to employees under the shareholder-approved PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term 


102 


Incentive Plan (LTIP). Executives who are awarded long-term incentives based on their performance may 
generally elect to receive their grant in the form of stock options or RSUs, or acombination thereof. Executives 
who elect stock options receive four stock options for every one RSU that would have otherwise been granted. 
Certain executive officers and other senior executives do not have a choice and, beginning in 2016, were 
granted 66% PSUs and 34% long-term cash, each of which are subject to pre-established performance targets. 
Previously, they were granted a combination of 60% PEPunits measuring both absolute and relative stock 
price performance and 40% long-term cash based on achievement of specific performance operating metrics. 


The Company may use authorized and unissued shares to meet share requirements resulting from the exercise 
of stock options and the vesting of RSUs, PSUs and PEPunits. 


As of December 30, 2017, 74 million shares were available for future share-based compensation grants under 
the LTIP. 


The following table summarizes our total share-based compensation expense: 


2017 2016 2015 

Share-based compensation expense - equity awards $ 292 $ 284 $ 295 

Share-based compensation expense - liability awards 13 5 = 

Restructuring and impairment (credits)/charges (2) 5 4 

Total $ 303 $ 294 $ 299 
Income tax benefits recognized in earnings related to share-based (a) 

compensation 38? 8 ols 


(a) Reflects tax rates effective for the 2017 tax year. 


As of December 30, 2017, there was $314 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to 
nonvested share-based compensation grants. This unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be 
recognized over a weighted-average period of two years. 


Method of Accounting and Our Assumptions 


The fair value of share-based award grants is amortized to expense over the vesting period, primarily three 
years. Awards to employees eligible for retirement prior to the award becoming fully vested are amortized 
to expense over the period through the date that the employee first becomes eligible to retire and is no longer 
required to provide service to earn the award. In addition, we use historical data to estimate forfeiture rates 
and record share-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. 


We do not backdate, reprice or grant share-based compensation awards retroactively. Repricing of awards 
would require shareholder approval under the LTIP. 


Stock Options 


A stock option permits the holder to purchase shares of PepsiCo common stock at a specified price. We 
account for our employee stock options under the fair value method of accounting using a Black-Scholes 
valuation model to measure stock option expense at the date of grant. All stock option grants have an exercise 
price equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant and generally have a 10-year 
term. 


103 


Our weighted-average Black-Scholes fair value assumptions are as follows: 


2017 2016 2015 
Expected life 5 years 6 years 7 years 
Risk-free interest rate 2.0% 1.4% 1.8% 
Expected volatility 11% 12% 15% 
Expected dividend yield 2.7% 2.7% 2.7% 


The expected life is the period over which our employee groups are expected to hold their options. It is based 
on our historical experience with similar grants. The risk-free interest rate is based on the expected U.S. 
Treasury rate over the expected life. Volatility reflects movements in our stock price over the most recent 
historical period equivalent to the expected life. Dividend yield is estimated over the expected life based on 
our stated dividend policy and forecasts of net income, share repurchases and stock price. 


A summary of our stock option activity for the year ended December 30, 2017 is as follows: 


Weighted- 
Average 
Weighted- Contractual 
Average Life Aggregate 
Exercise Remaining Intrinsic 
Options” Price (years) Value” 
Outstanding at December 31, 2016 25,190 $ 69.88 
Granted 1,481 $ 110.15 
Exercised (7,136) $ 65.31 
Forfeited/expired (522) $ 88.36 
Outstanding at December 30, 2017 19,013 $ 74.23 4.22 $ 868,750 
Exercisable at December 30, 2017 14,589 $ 65.60 3.02 $ 792,560 
Expected to vest as of December 30, 2017 3,994 $ 102.50 8.15 $ 69,578 


(a) Options are in thousands and include options previously granted under the PBG plan. No additional options or shares were granted under 
the PBG plan after 2009. 
(b) In thousands. 


Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units 


Each RSU represents our obligation to deliver to the holder one share of PepsiCo common stock when the 
award vests at the end of the service period. PSUs are awards pursuant to which a number of shares are 
delivered to the holder upon vesting at the end of the service period based on PepsiCo’s performance against 
specified financial and/or operational performance metrics. The number of shares may be increased to the 
maximum or reduced to the minimum threshold based on the results of these performance metrics in 
accordance with the terms established at the time of the award. During the vesting period, RSUs and PSUs 
accrue dividend equivalents that pay out in cash (without interest) if and when the applicable RSU or PSU 
vests and becomes payable. 


The fair value of RSUs is measured at the market price of the Company’s stock on the date of grant. The fair 
value of PSUs is measured at the market price of the Company’s stock on the date of grant with the exception 
of awards with market conditions, for which we use the Monte-Carlo simulation model to determine the fair 
value. The Monte-Carlo simulation model uses the same input assumptions as the Black-Scholes model; 
however, it also further incorporates into the fair-value determination the possibility that the market condition 
may not be satisfied. Compensation costs related to these awards are recognized regardless of whether the 
market condition is satisfied, provided that the requisite service has been provided. 


104 


A summary of our RSU and PSU activity for the year ended December 30, 2017 is as follows: 


Weighted- 
Average 
Weighted- Contractual 
Average Life Aggregate 
Grant-Date Remaining Intrinsic 
RSUs/PSUs® Fair Value (years) Value” 
Outstanding at December 31, 2016 8,237 $ 91.81 
Granted “” 2,824 $ 109.92 
Converted (3,226) $ 82.56 
Forfeited (608) $ 100.17 
Actual performance change “ 66 $ 100.33 
Outstanding at December 30, 2017 “ 7,293 $ 102.30 1.33 $ 874,517 
Expected to vest as of December 30, 2017 6,695 $ 102.00 1.26 $ 802,826 


(a) In thousands. 

(b) Grant activity for all PSUs are disclosed at target. 

(c) Reflects the net number of PSUs above and below target levels based on actual performance measured at the end of the performance period. 

(d) The outstanding PSUs for which the performance period has not ended as of December 30, 2017, at the threshold, target and maximum 
award levels were zero, 0.9 million and 1.5 million, respectively. 


PEPunits 


PEPunits provide an opportunity to earn shares of PepsiCo common stock with a value that adjusts based 
upon changes in PepsiCo’s absolute stock price as well as PepsiCo’s Total Shareholder Return relative to the 
S&P 500 over a three-year performance period. 


The fair value of PEPunits is measured using the Monte-Carlo simulation model. 


A summary of our PEPunit activity for the year ended December 30, 2017 is as follows: 


Weighted- 
Average 
Weighted- Contractual 
Average Life Aggregate 
Grant-Date Remaining Intrinsic 
PEPunits® Fair Value (years) Value 
Outstanding at December 31, 2016 533 $ 59.86 
Converted (363) $ 49.11 
Forfeited days 68.94 
Actual performance change (b) 91 $ 50.74 
Outstanding at December 30, 2017 “ 248 $ 68.94 0.17 $ 29,734 
Expected to vest as of December 30, 2017 234 $ 68.94 0.17 $ 28,034 


(a) In thousands. 

(b) Reflects the net number of PEPunits above and below target levels based on actual performance measured at the end of the performance 
period. 

(c) The outstanding PEPunits for which the performance period has not ended as of December 30, 2017, at the threshold, target and maximum 
award levels were zero, 0.2 million and 0.4 million, respectively. 


Long-Term Cash 


Beginning in 2016, certain executive officers and other senior executives were granted long-term cash awards 
for which final payout is based on PepsiCo’s Total Shareholder Return relative to a specific set of peer 
companies and achievement of a specified performance target over a three-year performance period. 


105 


Long-term cash awards that qualify as liability awards under share-based compensation guidance are valued 
through the end of the performance period on a mark-to-market basis using the Monte Carlo simulation 
model until actual performance is determined. 


A summary of our long-term cash activity for the year ended December 30, 2017 is as follows: 


Contractual 
Long-Term Balance Life 
Cash Sheet Date Remaining 
Award” Fair Value” (years) 
Outstanding at December 31, 2016 $ 15,670 
Granted” 19,060 
Forfeited (1,530) 
Outstanding at December 30, 2017 “ $ 33,200 $ 32,592 1.73 
Expected to vest as of December 30, 2017 $ 29,590 $ 29,092 1.71 


(a) In thousands. 

(b) Grant activity for all long-term cash awards are disclosed at target. 

(c) The outstanding long-term cash awards for which the performance period has not ended as of December 30, 2017, at the threshold, target 
and maximum award levels were zero, $33.2 million and $66.4 million, respectively. 


Other Share-Based Compensation Data 


The following is a summary of other share-based compensation data: 


2017 2016 2015 
Stock Options eet ee | 
Total number of options granted ” 1,481 1,743 1,884 
Weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted $ 8.25 $ 6.94 $ 10.80 
Total intrinsic value of options exercised @) $ 327,860 $ 290,131 $ 366,188 
Total grant-date fair value of options vested @) $ 23,122 $ 18,840 $ 21,837 
RSUs/PSUs 
Total number of RSUs/PSUs granted 2,824 3,054 2) 
Weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSUs/PSUs granted $ 109.92 $ 99.06 $ 99.17 
Total intrinsic value of RSUs/PSUs converted $ 380,269 $359,401 $ 375,510 
Total grant-date fair value of RSUs/PSUs vested “ $ 264,923 $ 257,648 $ 257,831 
PEPunits 
Total number of PEPunits granted _— — 300 
Weighted-average grant-date fair value of PEPunits granted $ — §$ — $ 68.94 
Total intrinsic value of PEPunits converted “ $ 39,782 $ 38,558 $ 37,705 
Total grant-date fair value of PEPunits vested “ $ 18,833 $ 16,572 $ 22,286 


(a) In thousands. 


As of December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, there were approximately 250,000 and 254,000 
outstanding awards, respectively, consisting primarily of phantom stock units that were granted under the 
PepsiCo Director Deferral Program and will be settled in shares of PepsiCo common stock pursuant to the 
LTIP at the end of the applicable deferral period, not included in the tables above. 


Note 7 — Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans 


Effective January 1, 2017, the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans were reorganized into Plan A and 
Plan I. Actuarial gains and losses associated with Plan A are amortized over the average remaining service 


106 


life of the active participants, while the actuarial gains and losses associated with Plan I are amortized over 
the remaining life expectancy of the inactive participants. As a result of this change, the pre-tax net periodic 
benefit cost decreased by $42 million ($27 million after-tax, reflecting tax rates effective for the 2017 tax 
year, or $0.02 per share) in 2017, primarily impacting corporate unallocated expenses. See “Our Critical 
Accounting Policies” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations. 


In 2016, the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans purchased a group annuity contract whereby an 
unrelated insurance company assumed the obligation to pay and administer future annuity payments for 
certain retirees. In 2016, we made discretionary contributions of $452 million primarily to fund the transfer 
of the obligation. This transaction triggered a pre-tax settlement charge of $242 million ($162 million after- 
tax or $0.11 per share). See additional unaudited information in “Items Affecting Comparability” in 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


Effective as of the beginning of 2016, we prospectively changed the method we use to estimate the service 
and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost. The pre-tax reduction in net periodic benefit cost 
associated with this change in 2016 was $125 million ($81 million after-tax or $0.06 per share). See “Our 
Critical Accounting Policies” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 
of Operations for further unaudited information on this change in accounting estimate. 


Gains and losses resulting from actual experience differing from our assumptions, including the difference 
between the actual return on plan assets and the expected return on plan assets, as well as changes in our 
assumptions, are determined at each measurement date. These differences are recognized as a component of 
net gain or loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss. If this net accumulated gain or loss exceeds 10% 
of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or plan liabilities, a portion of the net gain or loss is 
included in expense for the following year based upon the average remaining service life for participants in 
Plan A (approximately 11 years) and retiree medical (approximately 7 years), or the remaining life expectancy 
for participants in Plan I (approximately 27 years). The cost or benefit of plan changes that increase or 
decrease benefits for prior employee service (prior service (credit)/cost) is included in earnings on a straight- 
line basis over the average remaining service life for participants in Plan A or the remaining life expectancy 
for participants in Plan I. 


We regularly evaluate different opportunities to reduce risk and volatility associated with our pension and 
retiree medical plans. 


107 


Selected financial information for our pension and retiree medical plans is as follows: 


Change in projected benefit liability 
Liability at beginning of year 
Service cost 

Interest cost 

Plan amendments 

Participant contributions 

Experience loss/(gain) 

Benefit payments 
Settlement/curtailment 

Special termination benefits 

Other, including foreign currency adjustment 


Liability at end of year 


Change in fair value of plan assets 

Fair value at beginning of year 

Actual return on plan assets 

Employer contributions/funding 

Participant contributions 

Benefit payments 

Settlement 

Other, including foreign currency adjustment 
Fair value at end of year 


Funded status 


Amounts recognized 
Other assets 

Other current liabilities 
Other liabilities 


Net amount recognized 


Pension Retiree Medical 
US. International 


2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 


$ 13,192 $ 13,033 $ 3,124 $ 2,872 $ 1,208 $ 1,300 


401 393 91 80 28 31 
468 484 89 94 36 41 
10 18 2 = (5) (15) 
1,529 614 5 560 21 (51) 
(825) (347) (104) (83) (107) (100) 
(58) (1,014) (22) (19) = = 
60 11 = 1 2 1 
= = 303 (383) 4 1 


1,935 880 288 409 52 30 
60 541 104 118 56 36 
= = 2 2 = = 

(825) (347) (104) (83) (107) (100) 
(46) (1,013) (18) (22) = = 
= = 294 (353) = = 


$ 286 $ — $ 85 $ 51 $ — $ — 
(74) (42) (1) () (75) (54) 
(2,407) (1,692) (114) (280) (791) (834) 


Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss (pre-tax) 


Net loss/(gain) 
Prior service cost/(credit) 
Total 


$ 3,520 $ 3,220 $ 782 $ 884 $ (189) $ (193) 


Changes recognized in net loss/(gain) included in other comprehensive loss 


Net loss/(gain) arising in current year 
Amortization and settlement recognition 
Foreign currency translation loss/(gain) 
Total 


Accumulated benefit obligation at end of year 


$ 431 $ 568 $ (115) $ 314 $ (9) $ (57) 
(131) (413) (60) (46) 12 1 

= = 73 (117) 1 1 

$ 300 $ 155 $ (102) $ 151 $ 4 $ (55) 


$ 13,732 $ 12,211 $ 2,985 $ 2,642 


The amounts we report as pension and retiree medical cost consist of the following components: 


¢ Service cost is the value of benefits earned by employees for working during the year. 
e Interest cost is the accrued interest on the projected benefit obligation due to the passage of time. 


108 


¢ Expected return on plan assets is the long-term return we expect to earn on plan investments for our 
funded plans that will be used to settle future benefit obligations. 
¢ Amortization of prior service cost/(credit) represents the recognition in the income statement of benefit 


changes resulting from plan amendments. 


¢ Amortization of net loss/(gain) represents the recognition in the income statement of changes in the 
amount of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation based on changes in assumptions and actual 


experience. 


¢ Settlement/curtailment loss/(gain) represents the result of actions that effectively eliminate all or a 
portion of related projected benefit obligations. Settlements are triggered when payouts to settle the 
projected benefit obligation of a plan due to lump sums or other events exceed the annual service and 
interest cost. Settlements are recognized when actions are irrevocable and we are relieved of the 
primary responsibility and risk for projected benefit obligations. Curtailments are due to events such 
as plant closures or the sale of a business resulting in a reduction of future service or benefits. 
Curtailment losses are recognized when an event is probable and estimable, while curtailment gains 
are recognized when an event has occurred (when the related employees terminate or an amendment 


is adopted). 


¢ Special termination benefits are the additional benefits offered to employees upon departure due to 


actions such as restructuring. 


The components of benefit expense are as follows: 


2017 
Components of benefit expense ah 
Service cost $ 401 
Interest cost 468 
Expected return on plan assets (849) 
Amortization of prior service cost/(credit) 1 
Amortization of net loss/(gain) 123 
~ 144 
Settlement/curtailment loss/(gain) 8 
Special termination benefits 60 
Total $ 212 


Pension Retiree Medical 
US. International 
2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 
$ 393 $ 435 $ 91 $ 80 $ 99 $ 28 $ 31 $ 35 
484 546 89 94 115} 36 41 52 
(834) (850) (176) (163) (174) (22) (24) (27) 
() (3) = = = (25) (38) (39) 
168 205 53 40 71 (12) (1) 2 
210 333 57 51 111 5 9 23 
245 —_ 11 9 3 — (14) — 
11 18 _— 1 1 2 1 1 
$ 466 $ 351 $ 68 $ 61 $115 $ 7 $ (4) $ 24 


(a) U.S. includes a settlement charge of $242 million related to the group annuity contract purchase in 2016. See additional unaudited information 
in “Items Affecting Comparability” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


The estimated amounts to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss/(gain) into pre-tax 
expense in 2018 for our pension and retiree medical plans are as follows: 


Net loss/(gain) 
Prior service cost/(credit) 
Total 


Pension Retiree Medical 
US. International 
$ 7) SS 46 $ (10) 
3 — (20) 
$ 182 $ 46 $ (30) 


109 


The following table provides the weighted-average assumptions used to determine projected benefit liability 
and benefit expense for our pension and retiree medical plans: 


Pension Retiree Medical 
US. International 
2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 

Weighted-average assumptions 

Liability discount rate 3.7% 4.4% 4.5% 3.0% 3.1% 4.0% 3.5% 4.0% 4.2% 
Expense discount rate “? n/a na 4.2% n/a nla 3.8% n/a na —-3.8% 
Service cost discount rate “ 4.5% 4.6% n/a 3.6% 4.1% n/a 4.0% 4.3% n/a 
Interest cost discount rate 3.7% 3.8% n/a 2.8% 3.5% n/a 3.2% 3.3% n/a 
Expected return on plan assets 7.5% 7.5% 7.5% 6.0% 6.2% 6.5% 7.5% 7.5% 7.5% 
Liability rate of salary increases 3.1% 3.1% 3.1% 3.7% 3.6% 3.6% 

Expense rate of salary increases 3.1% 3.1% 3.5% 3.6% 3.6% 3.6% 


(a) Effective as of the beginning of 2016, we prospectively changed the method we use to estimate the service and interest cost components 
of pension and retiree medical expense. See additional unaudited information in “Our Critical Accounting Policies” in Management’s 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


The following table provides selected information about plans with accumulated benefit obligation and total 
projected benefit liability in excess of plan assets: 


Pension Retiree Medical 
US. International 

2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 
Selected information for plans with accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets 
Liability for service to date $ = (8,355) $ (12,211) $ (161) $ (134) 
Fair value of plan assets $ 6,919 $ 11,458 $ 119 $ 110 
Selected information for plans with projected benefit liability in excess of plan assets 
Benefit liability $ = (9,400) $ (13,192) $ (1,273) $ (2,773) $ (1,187) $ (1,208) 
Fair value of plan assets $ 6,919 $ 11,458 $ 1,158 $ 2,492 $ 321 $ 320 


Of the total projected pension benefit liability as of December 30, 2017, approximately $905 million relates 
to plans that we do not fund because the funding of such plans does not receive favorable tax treatment. 


Future Benefit Payments 


Our estimated future benefit payments are as follows: 


2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 - 27 
Pension $ 890 $ 985 $ 825 $ 875 $ 925 $ 5,210 
Retiree medical $ 120 $ 120 $ 110 $ 110 $ 105 $ 455 


(a) Expected future benefit payments for our retiree medical plans do not reflect any estimated subsidies expected to be received under the 
2003 Medicare Act. Subsidies are expected to be approximately $2 million for each of the years from 2018 through 2022 and approximately 
$6 million in total for 2023 through 2027. 


These future benefit payments to beneficiaries include payments from both funded and unfunded plans. 


110 


Funding 


Contributions to our pension and retiree medical plans were as follows: 


Pension Retiree Medical 
2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 
Discretionary ” $ 6 §$ 459 $ — $ — $ — §$ = 
Non-discretionary 158 200 162 56 36 43 
Total $ 164 $ 659 $ 162 $ 56 $ 36 $ 43 


(a) Includes $452 million in 2016 relating to the funding of the group annuity contract purchase from an unrelated insurance company. 


In February 2018, we received approval from our Board of Directors to make discretionary contributions of 
$1.4 billion to Plan A in the United States that we intend to invest in fixed income securities. As of February 
13, 2018, we contributed $750 million of the approved amount; we expect to contribute the remaining $650 
million in the first quarter of 2018. These contributions are reflected in our 2018 long-term expected rate of 
return on plan assets and target investment allocations. In addition, in 2018, we expect to make non- 
discretionary contributions of approximately $175 million to our U.S. and international plans for pension 
benefits and approximately $75 million for retiree medical benefits. 


Plan Assets 


Our pension plan investment strategy includes the use of actively managed accounts and is reviewed 
periodically in conjunction with plan liabilities, an evaluation of market conditions, tolerance for risk and 
cash requirements for benefit payments. This strategy is also applicable to funds held for the retiree medical 
plans. Our investment objective includes ensuring that funds are available to meet the plans’ benefit 
obligations when they become due. Assets contributed to our pension plans are no longer controlled by us, 
but become the property of our individual pension plans. However, we are indirectly impacted by changes 
in these plan assets as compared to changes in our projected liabilities. Our overall investment policy is to 
prudently invest plan assets in a well-diversified portfolio of equity and high-quality debt securities and real 
estate to achieve our long-term return expectations. Our investment policy also permits the use of derivative 
instruments, such as futures and forward contracts, to reduce interest rate and foreign currency risks. Futures 
contracts represent commitments to purchase or sell securities at a future date and at a specified price. Forward 
contracts consist of currency forwards. 


For 2018 and 2017, our expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets is 7.2% and 7.5%, respectively. 
Our target investment allocations for U.S. plan assets are as follows: 


2018 2017 
Fixed income 41% —~=«SOD. 
U.S. equity 29% 33% 
International equity 20% 22% 
Real estate 4% 5% 


Actual investment allocations may vary from our target investment allocations due to prevailing market 
conditions. We regularly review our actual investment allocations and periodically rebalance our investments. 


The expected return on plan assets is based on our investment strategy and our expectations for long-term 
rates of return by asset class, taking into account volatility and correlation among asset classes and our 
historical experience. We also review current levels of interest rates and inflation to assess the reasonableness 
of the long-term rates. We evaluate our expected return assumptions annually to ensure that they are 
reasonable. To calculate the expected return on plan assets, our market-related value of assets for fixed income 
is the actual fair value. For all other asset categories, such as equity securities, we use a method that recognizes 


111 


investment gains or losses (the difference between the expected and actual return based on the market-related 
value of assets) over a five-year period. This has the effect of reducing year-to-year volatility. 


Plan assets measured at fair value as of fiscal year-end 2017 and 2016 are categorized consistently by level, 
and are as follows: 


2017 2016 
Quoted Prices 
in Active Significant 
Markets for Other Significant 
Identical Observable Unobservable 
Assets Inputs Inputs 
Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total 
U.S. plan assets ” 
Equity securities, including preferred stock $ 6,904 $ 6,896 $ 8 $ — $ 6,489 
Government securities © 1,365 = 1,365 — 1,173 
Corporate bonds “ 3,429 — 3,429 — 3,012 
Mortgage-backed securities 217 — 217 —_— 187 
Contracts with insurance companies @ 8 —_ —_ 8 7 
Cash and cash equivalents 236 236 — —_ 196 
Sub-total U.S. plan assets 12,159 $ 7,132 $ 5,019 $ 8 11,064 
Real estate commingled funds measured at 
net asset value “ 675 651 
Dividends and interest receivable, net of 
payables 69 63 
Total U.S. plan assets $ 12,903 $ 11,778 
International plan assets 
Equity securities ©) $ 1,928 $ 1,895 $ 33 $ = § 1,556 
Government securities 492 = 492 — 432 
Corporate bonds 493 — 493 — 453 
Fixed income commingled funds 383 383 — — 316 
Contracts with insurance companies “ 36 _ — 36 35 
Cash and cash equivalents 19 19 —_ _ 12 
Sub-total international plan assets 3,351 $ 2,297 $ 1,018 $ 36 2,804 
Real estate commingled funds measured at 
net asset value “? 102 84 
Dividends and interest receivable 7 6 
Total international plan assets $ 3,460 $ 2,894 


(a) 
(b) 


(c) 
(d) 


(e) 


(f) 


2017 and 2016 amounts include $321 million and $320 million, respectively, of retiree medical plan assets that are restricted for purposes of 
providing health benefits for U.S. retirees and their beneficiaries. 

The equity securities portfolio was invested in U.S. and international common stock and commingled funds, and the preferred stock portfolio in 
the U.S. was invested in domestic and international corporate preferred stock investments. The common stock is based on quoted prices in active 
markets. The U.S. commingled funds are based on fair values of the investments owned by these funds that are benchmarked against various U.S. 
large, mid-cap and small company indices, and includes one large-cap fund that represents 19% of total U.S. plan assets for 2017 and 2016. The 
international commingled funds are based on the fair values of the investments owned by these funds that track various non-U.S. equity indices. 
The preferred stock investments are based on quoted bid prices for comparable securities in the marketplace and broker/dealer quotes in active 
markets. 

These investments are based on quoted bid prices for comparable securities in the marketplace and broker/dealer quotes in active markets. Corporate 
bonds of U.S.-based companies represent 23% and 22% of total U.S. plan assets for 2017 and 2016, respectively. 

Based on the fair value of the contracts as determined by the insurance companies using inputs that are not observable. The changes in Level 3 
amounts were not significant in the years ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. 

The real estate commingled funds include investments in limited partnerships. These funds are based on the net asset value of the appraised value 
of investments owned by these funds as determined by independent third parties using inputs that are not observable. The majority of the funds are 
redeemable quarterly subject to availability of cash and have notice periods ranging from 45 to 90 days. 

Based on the fair value of the investments owned by these funds that track various government and corporate bond indices. 


112 


Retiree Medical Cost Trend Rates 


2018 2017 
Average increase assumed 6% 6% 
Ultimate projected increase 5% 5% 
Year of ultimate projected increase 2039 2039 


These assumed health care cost trend rates have an impact on the retiree medical plan expense and liability, 
however the cap on our share of retiree medical costs limits the impact. A 1-percentage-point change in the 
assumed health care trend rate would have the following effects: 


1% 1% 
Increase Decrease 
2017 service and interest cost components $ 3 §$ (3) 
2017 benefit liability $ 39 $ (34) 


Savings Plan 


Certain U.S. employees are eligible to participate in 401(k) savings plans, which are voluntary defined 
contribution plans. The plans are designed to help employees accumulate additional savings for retirement, 
and we make Company matching contributions for certain employees on a portion of eligible pay based on 
years of service. 


Certain U.S. salaried employees, who are not eligible to participate in a defined benefit pension plan, are 
also eligible to receive an employer contribution to the 401(k) savings plan based on age and years of service 
regardless of employee contribution. 


In 2017, 2016 and 2015, our total Company contributions were $176 million, $164 million and $148 million, 
respectively. 


For additional unaudited information on our pension and retiree medical plans and related accounting policies 
and assumptions, see “Our Critical Accounting Policies” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


113 


Note 8 — Debt Obligations 


The following table summarizes the Company’s debt obligations: 


Short-term debt obligations ” 
Current maturities of long-term debt 
Commercial paper (1.3% and 0.6%) 
Other borrowings (4.7% and 4.4%) 


Long-term debt obligations ” 

Notes due 2017 (1.4%) 

Notes due 2018 (2.4% and 2.3%) 
Notes due 2019 (2.1% and 1.7%) 
Notes due 2020 (3.1% and 2.6%) 
Notes due 2021 (2.4% and 2.4%) 
Notes due 2022 (2.6% and 2.8%) 
Notes due 2023-2047 (3.7% and 3.8%) 
Other, due 2017-2026 (1.3% and 1.4%) 


Less: current maturities of long-term debt obligations 


Total 


2017 


$ 4,020 
1,385 
80 


$ 5,485 


$ ae 
4,016 
3,933 
3,792 
3,300 
3,853 
18,891 

31 


37,816 


(4,020) 


(a) Amounts are shown net of unamortized net discounts of $155 million and $142 million for 2017 and 2016, respectively. 
(b) The interest rates presented reflect weighted-average rates at year-end. Certain of our fixed rate indebtedness have been swapped to floating 
rates through the use of interest rate derivative instruments. See Note 9 for additional information regarding our interest rate derivative 


instruments. 


In 2017, we issued the following senior notes: 


Interest Rate 
Floating rate 
Floating rate 

1.550% 
2.250% 
4.000% 
2.150% 
Floating rate 
2.000% 
3.000% 


Maturity Date 
May 2019 
May 2022 
May 2019 
May 2022 
May 2047 
May 2024 
October 2018 

April 2021 
October 2027 


Amount” 
$ 350 
$ 400 
$ 750 
$ 750 
$ 750 
C$ 750 
$ 1,500 
$ 1,000 
$ 1,500 


(a) Represents gross proceeds from issuances of long-term debt excluding debt issuance costs, discounts and premiums. 
(b) These notes, issued in Canadian dollars, were designated as a net investment hedge to partially offset the effects of foreign currency on our 


investments in certain of our foreign subsidiaries. 


2016 


4,401 
Del 
234 


6,892 


4,398 
2,561 
2,837 
3,816 
2,249 
2,655 
15,903 
35 


34,454 


(4,401) 


$ 33,796 $ 30,053 


The net proceeds from the issuances of the above notes were used for general corporate purposes, including 


the repayment of commercial paper. 


In 2017, we entered into a new five-year unsecured revolving credit agreement (Five-Year Credit Agreement) 
which expires on June 5, 2022. The Five-Year Credit Agreement enables us and our borrowing subsidiaries 
to borrow up to $3.75 billion, subject to customary terms and conditions. We may request that commitments 
under this agreement be increased up to $4.5 billion. Additionally, we may, once a year, request renewal of 


the agreement for an additional one-year period. 


114 


Also in 2017, we entered into a new 364-day unsecured revolving credit agreement (364-Day Credit 
Agreement) which expires on June 4, 2018. The 364-Day Credit Agreement enables us and our borrowing 
subsidiaries to borrow up to $3.75 billion, subject to customary terms and conditions. We may request that 
commitments under this agreement be increased up to $4.5 billion. We may request renewal of this facility 
for an additional 364-day period or convert any amounts outstanding into a term loan for a period of up to 
one year, which would mature no later than the anniversary of the then effective termination date. The Five- 
Year Credit Agreement and the 364-Day Credit Agreement together replaced our $3.7225 billion five-year 
credit agreement and our $3.7225 billion 364-day credit agreement both dated as of June 6, 2016. Funds 
borrowed under the Five-Year Credit Agreement and the 364-Day Credit Agreement may be used for general 
corporate purposes. Subject to certain conditions, we may borrow, prepay and reborrow amounts under these 
agreements. As of December 30, 2017, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Five-Year Credit 
Agreement or the 364-Day Credit Agreement. 


In 2016, we paid $2.5 billion to redeem all of our outstanding 7.900% senior notes due 2018 and 5.125% 
senior notes due 2019 for the principal amounts of $1.5 billion and $750 million, respectively, and terminated 
certain interest rate swaps. As a result, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $233 million ($156 million after-tax 
or $0.11 per share) to interest expense, primarily representing the premium paid in accordance with the 
“make-whole” redemption provisions. See further unaudited information in “Items Affecting Comparability” 
in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


In addition, as of December 30, 2017, our international debt of $73 million was related to borrowings from 
external parties including various lines of credit. These lines of credit are subject to normal banking terms 
and conditions and are fully committed at least to the extent of our borrowings. 


See “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and Results of Operations for further unaudited information on our borrowings and long-term contractual 
commitments. 


Note 9 — Financial Instruments 
Derivatives and Hedging 
We are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in: 


* commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy; 
¢ foreign exchange rates and currency restrictions; and 


¢ interest rates. 


In the normal course of business, we manage commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate risks 
through a variety of strategies, including productivity initiatives, global purchasing programs and hedging. 
Ongoing productivity initiatives involve the identification and effective implementation of meaningful cost- 
saving opportunities or efficiencies, including the use of derivatives. Our global purchasing programs include 
fixed-price contracts and purchase orders and pricing agreements. 


Our hedging strategies include the use of derivatives and, in the case of our net investment hedges, debt 
instruments. Certain derivatives are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges and qualify for hedge 
accounting treatment, while others do not qualify and are marked to market through earnings. Cash flows 
from derivatives used to manage commodity price, foreign exchange or interest rate risks are classified as 
operating activities in the cash flow statement. We classify both the earnings and cash flow impact from these 
derivatives consistent with the underlying hedged item. See “Our Business Risks” in Management’s 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further unaudited information 
on our business risks. 


115 


We do not use derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We perform assessments of our 
counterparty credit risk regularly, including reviewing netting agreements, if any, and a review of credit 
ratings, credit default swap rates and potential nonperformance of the counterparty. Based on our most recent 
assessment of our counterparty credit risk, we consider this risk to be low. In addition, we enter into derivative 
contracts with a variety of financial institutions that we believe are creditworthy in order to reduce our 
concentration of credit risk. 


Commodity Prices 


We are subject to commodity price risk because our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing 
may be limited in the competitive environment in which we operate. This risk is managed through the use 
of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, which include 
swaps and futures. In addition, risk to our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases 
from multiple geographies and suppliers. We use derivatives, with terms of no more than three years, to 
economically hedge price fluctuations related to a portion of our anticipated commodity purchases, primarily 
for agricultural products, energy and metals. Ineffectiveness for those derivatives that qualify for hedge 
accounting treatment was not material for all periods presented. Derivatives used to hedge commodity price 
risk that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are marked to market each period with the resulting 
gains and losses recorded in corporate unallocated expenses as either cost of sales or selling, general and 
administrative expenses, depending on the underlying commodity. These gains and losses are subsequently 
reflected in division results when the divisions recognize the cost of the underlying commodity in operating 
profit. 


Our commodity derivatives had a total notional value of $0.9 billion as of December 30, 2017 and $0.8 billion 
as of December 31, 2016. 


Foreign Exchange 


Our operations outside of the United States generated 42% of our net revenue in 2017, with Mexico, Russia, 
Canada, the United Kingdom and Brazil comprising approximately 20% of our net revenue in 2017. As a 
result, we are exposed to foreign exchange risks in the international markets in which our products are made, 
manufactured, distributed or sold. 


Additionally, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk from net investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign 
currency purchases and foreign currency assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business. We 
manage this risk through sourcing purchases from local suppliers, negotiating contracts in local currencies 
with foreign suppliers and through the use of derivatives, primarily forward contracts with terms of no more 
than two years. Exchange rate gains or losses related to foreign currency transactions are recognized as 
transaction gains or losses in our income statement as incurred. We also use net investment hedges to partially 
offset the effects of foreign currency on our investments in certain of our foreign subsidiaries. 


Our foreign currency derivatives had a total notional value of $1.6 billion as of December 30, 2017 and 
December 31, 2016. The total notional amount of our debt instruments designated as net investment hedges 
was $1.5 billion as of December 30, 2017 and $0.8 billion as of December 31, 2016. Ineffectiveness for 
derivatives and non-derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting treatment was not material for all periods 
presented. For foreign currency derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, all gains and 
losses were offset by changes in the underlying hedged items, resulting in no material net impact on earnings. 


Interest Rates 


We centrally manage our debt and investment portfolios considering investment opportunities and risks, tax 
consequences and overall financing strategies. We use various interest rate derivative instruments including, 


116 


but not limited to, interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps, Treasury locks and swap locks to 
manage our overall interest expense and foreign exchange risk. These instruments effectively change the 
interest rate and currency of specific debt issuances. Certain of our fixed rate indebtedness have been swapped 
to floating rates. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the interest rate and cross- 
currency interest rate swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt. Our 
Treasury locks and swap locks are entered into to protect against unfavorable interest rate changes relating 
to forecasted debt transactions. 


Our interest rate derivatives had a total notional value of $14.2 billion as of December 30, 2017 and $11.2 
billion as of December 31, 2016. Ineffectiveness for derivatives that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting 
treatment was not material for all periods presented. 


As of December 30, 2017, approximately 43% of total debt, after the impact of the related interest rate 
derivative instruments, was subject to variable rates, compared to approximately 38% as of December 31, 
2016. 


Available-for-Sale Securities 


Investments in debt and marketable equity securities, other than investments accounted for under the equity 
method, are classified as available-for-sale. All highly liquid investments with original maturities of three 
months or less are classified as cash equivalents. Our investments in available-for-sale securities are reported 
at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of available-for-sale securities 
are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss within common shareholders’ equity. Unrealized 
gains and losses on our investments in debt securities as of December 30, 2017 were not material. In 2017, 
we recorded a pre-tax gain of $95 million ($85 million after-tax or $0.06 per share), net of discount and fees, 
associated with the sale of our minority stake in Britvic. This gain was recorded in our ESSA segment in 
selling, general and administrative expenses. The pre-tax unrealized gain on these available-for-sale equity 
securities was $72 million as of December 31, 2016. See Note 2 for additional information on investments 
in certain equity securities. 


Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale securities impact net income only when such securities are 
sold or an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized. We regularly review our investment portfolio to 
determine if any security is other-than-temporarily impaired. In making this judgment, we evaluate, among 
other things, the duration and extent to which the fair value of a security is less than its cost; the financial 
condition of the issuer and any changes thereto; and our intent to sell, or whether we will more likely than 
not be required to sell, the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Our assessment of whether 
a security is other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes 
in assumptions related to any particular security. We recorded no other-than-temporary impairment charges 
on our available-for-sale securities for the years ended December 30, 2017, December 31, 2016 and 
December 26, 2015. 


Tingyi-Asahi Beverages Holding Co. Ltd. 


During 2016, we concluded that the decline in estimated fair value of our 5% indirect equity interest in TAB 
was other than temporary based on significant negative economic trends in China and changes in assumptions 
associated with TAB’s future financial performance arising from the disclosure by TAB’s parent company, 
Tingyi, regarding the operating results of its beverage business. As a result, we recorded a pre- and after-tax 
impairment charge of $373 million ($0.26 per share) in 2016 in the AMENA segment. This charge was 
recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in our income statement and reduced the value of 
our 5% indirect equity interest in TAB to its estimated fair value. The estimated fair value was derived using 
both an income and market approach, and is considered a non-recurring Level 3 measurement within the fair 
value hierarchy. The carrying value of the investment in TAB was $166 million as of December 30, 2017 


117 


and December 31, 2016. We continue to monitor the impact of economic and other developments on the 
remaining value of our investment in TAB. 


In connection with our transaction with Tingyi in 2012, we received a call option to increase our holding in 
TAB to 20% with an expiration date in 2015. Prior to its expiration, we concluded that the probability of 
exercising the option was remote and, accordingly, we recorded a pre- and after-tax charge of $73 million 
($0.05 per share) to write off the recorded value of this call option in 2015. 


See further unaudited information in “Items Affecting Comparability” in Management’s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


118 


Fair Value Measurements 


The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities as of December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 are 
categorized as follows: 


2017 2016 
Fair Value 
Hierarchy 
Levels® — Assets —_Liabilities® Assets Liabilities 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Equity securities ”’ 1 $ — $ — § 82 $ = 
Debt securities 2 14,510 — 11,369 = 
$ 14,510 $ — $ 11,451 $ — 
Short-term investments “ 1 $ 228 $ — $ 193 $ — 
Prepaid forward contracts © 2 $ 27 $ — §$ 25 $ — 
Deferred compensation ”? $ — $ 503 $ — §$ 472 
Derivatives designated as fair 
value hedging instruments: 
Interest rate ‘© 2 $ 24 $ 130 $ 66 $ 71 
Derivatives designated as cash 
flow hedging instruments: 
Foreign exchange “” 2 $ 15 $ 31 $ Sie 8 
Interest rate 2 — 213 — 408 
Commodity “ 1 — 2 — 1 
Commodity “” 2 2 — 2 — 
$ Va) 246 $ Bele NS 417 
Derivatives not designated as 
hedging instruments: 
Foreign exchange “” 2 $ 10 $ 35 2°33 its) 
Commodity “? 1 — 19 1 1 
Commodity ” 2 85 i 60 25 
$ 9 $ £34$ °&2£63 $ 41 
Total derivatives at fair value “ $ 136 $ 410 $ 182 $ 529 
Total $ 14,901 $ 913 $ 11,851 $ 1,001 


(a) 


(b) 
(c) 


(d) 


(e) 
(f) 
(g) 
(h) 
(i) 
(j) 
(k) 


Fair value hierarchy levels are defined in Note 7. Unless otherwise noted, financial assets are classified on our balance sheet within prepaid 
expenses and other current assets and other assets. Financial liabilities are classified on our balance sheet within accounts payable and other 
current liabilities and other liabilities. 

Based on the price of common stock. These equity securities were classified as investments in noncontrolled affiliates. 

Based on quoted broker prices or other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. As of December 30, 
2017, $5.8 billion and $8.7 billion of debt securities were classified as cash equivalents and short-term investments, respectively. As of 
December 31, 2016, $4.6 billion and $6.8 billion of debt securities were classified as cash equivalents and short-term investments, 
respectively. All of our available-for-sale debt securities have maturities of one year or less. 

Based on the price of index funds. These investments are classified as short-term investments and are used to manage a portion of market 
risk arising from our deferred compensation liability. 

Based primarily on the price of our common stock. 

Based on the fair value of investments corresponding to employees’ investment elections. 

Based on LIBOR forward rates. 

Based on recently reported market transactions of spot and forward rates. 

Based on quoted contract prices on futures exchange markets. 

Based on recently reported market transactions of swap arrangements. 

Unless otherwise noted, derivative assets and liabilities are presented on a gross basis on our balance sheet. Amounts subject to enforceable 
master netting arrangements or similar agreements which are not offset on the balance sheet as of December 30, 2017 and December 31, 
2016 were not material. Collateral received against any of our asset positions was not material. 


119 


The carrying amounts of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments approximate fair value 
due to their short-term maturity. The fair value of our debt obligations as of December 30, 2017 and 
December 31, 2016 was $41 billion and $38 billion, respectively, based upon prices of similar instruments 
in the marketplace, which are considered Level 2 inputs. 


Losses/(gains) on our hedging instruments are categorized as follows: 


Fair Value/Non- 
designated Hedges Cash Flow and Net Investment Hedges 
Losses/(Gains) 
Reclassified from 
Losses/(Gains) Accumulated Other 
Losses/(Gains) Recognized in Comprehensive Loss 
Recognized in Accumulated Other into Income 
Income Statement” Comprehensive Loss Statement” 
2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 
Foreign exchange $ (15) $ 74 §$ 62 $ (24) $ 10 $ (44) 
Interest rate 101 105 (195) 97 (184) 187 
Commodity (48) (52) 3 1 3 7 
Net investment — — 157 (39) — — 
Total $ 38 § 127 $ 2s 35 $ (171) $ 150 


(a) Foreign exchange derivative losses/gains are primarily included in selling, general and administrative expenses. Interest rate derivative 
losses/gains are primarily from fair value hedges and are included in interest expense. These losses/gains are substantially offset by decreases/ 
increases in the value of the underlying debt, which are also included in interest expense. Commodity derivative losses/gains are included 
in either cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses, depending on the underlying commodity. 

(b) Foreign exchange derivative losses/gains are primarily included in cost of sales. Interest rate derivative losses/gains are included in interest 
expense. Commodity derivative losses/gains are included in either cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses, depending 
on the underlying commodity. 


Based on current market conditions, we expect to reclassify net losses of $33 million related to our cash flow 
hedges from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net income during the next 12 months. 


120 


Note 10 — Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo per Common Share 


The computations of basic and diluted net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share are as follows: 


2017 2016 2015 
Income Shares” Income Shares” Income Shares” 
Net income attributable to PepsiCo $ 4,857 $ 6,329 $ 5,452 
Preferred shares: 
Dividends — (1) (1) 
Redemption premium (4) (5) (5) 
Net income available for PepsiCo 
common shareholders $ 4,853 1,425 $ 6,323 1,439 $ 5,446 1,469 
Basic net income attributable to 
PepsiCo per common share $ 3.40 $ 4.39 $ 3.71 
Net income available for PepsiCo 
common shareholders $ 4,853 1,425 $ 6,323 1,439 $ 5,446 1,469 
Dilutive securities: 
Stock options, RSUs, PSUs, 
PEPunits and Other — 12 1 12 — 15 
ESOP convertible preferred stock 4 1 5 1 6 1 
Diluted $ 4,857 1,438 $ 6,329 1,452 $ 5,452 1,485 
Diluted net income attributable to 
PepsiCo per common share $ 3.38 $ 4.36 $ 3.67 


(a) Weighted-average common shares outstanding (in millions). 


Out-of-the-money options excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share are as follows: 


2017 2016 2015 
Out-of-the-money options “ 0.4 0.7 1.5 
Average exercise price per option $ 110.12 $ 99.98 $ 99.25 


(a) In millions. 
Note 11 — Preferred Stock 


As of December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, there were 3 million shares of convertible preferred stock 
authorized. The preferred stock was issued for an ESOP established by Quaker. Quaker made the final award 
to its ESOP in June 2001. As of December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, there were 803,953 preferred 
shares issued and 114,753 and 122,553 shares outstanding, respectively. The outstanding preferred shares 
had a fair value of $68 million as of December 30, 2017 and $64 million as of December 31, 2016. 


Activities of our preferred stock are included in the equity statement. 


In January 2018, all of the outstanding shares of our convertible preferred stock were converted into an 
aggregate of 550,102 shares of our common stock at the conversion ratio set forth in Exhibit A to our amended 
and restated articles of incorporation. As a result, there are no shares of our convertible preferred stock 
outstanding as of February 13, 2018. 


121 


Note 12 — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Attributable to PepsiCo 


The changes in the balances of each component of accumulated other comprehensive loss attributable to 
PepsiCo are as follows: 


Accumulated Other 
Currency Cash Pension and _ Available- Comprehensive 
Translation Flow Retiree For-Sale Loss Attributable to 
Adjustment Hedges Medical Securities Other PepsiCo 


Other comprehensive (loss)/income 
before reclassifications (2,936) (95) (88) 3 


=~ 
ies) 
— 
an 
a 
i 


% 


Net current year other comprehensive 


(loss)/income (2,825) 2 178 3 — (2,642) 
Balance as of December 26, 2015 (11,080) 37 (2,329) 88 (35) (13,319) 


Amounts reclassified from accumulated 


other comprehensive loss 150 


& 
o 
a 
| 
| 


557 


Tax amounts 


x 
~ 
ww 
So 
7 
N 
Q 
= 
\o 
N 
te 


Other comprehensive (loss)/income 
before reclassifications “ 1,049 130 (375) 25 


| 

ioe) 
N 
Ne} 


Net current year other comprehensive 
(loss)/income 1,049 (41) (217) (74) —_ 717 


Balance as of December 30, 2017 = $ (10,277) $ 47 $ (2,804) $ (4) $ (19) $ (13,057) 


= 


a) Pension and retiree medical amounts are net of taxes of $1,260 million in 2014, $1,253 million in 2015, $1,280 million in 2016 and $1,338 
million in 2017. 

(b) Currency translation adjustment primarily reflects the depreciation of the Russian ruble, Brazilian real and Canadian dollar. 

(c) Currency translation adjustment primarily reflects the appreciation of the euro, Russian ruble, Pound sterling and Canadian dollar. 


122 


The following table summarizes the reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to the 
income statement: 


Amount Reclassified from 


Accumulated Other Affected Line Item in the 
Comprehensive Loss Income Statement 
~ 2017,—~—<“«‘(Hti(sti«iS 
Currency translation: 
Venezuelan entities $ — $ — $ 111 Venezuela impairment charges 
Cash flow hedges: 
Foreign exchange contracts $ — $ 2 $ (3) Net revenue 
Foreign exchange contracts 10 (46) (94) Cost of sales 
Interest rate derivatives (184) 187 174 Interest expense 
Commodity contracts 4 3 9 Cost of sales 
Selling, general and 
Commodity contracts (1) 4 11 administrative expenses 
Net (gains)/losses before tax (171) 150 97 
Tax amounts 64 (63) (47) 
Net (gains)/losses after tax $ (107) $ 87 §$ 50 


Pension and retiree medical items: 


Amortization of net prior service credit $ (24) $ (39) $ (41) 

Amortization of net losses ® 167 209 281 

Settlement/curtailment “ 15 237 6 

Net losses before tax 158 407 246 

Tax amounts (44) (144) (74) 

Net losses after tax $ 114 $ 263 $ 172 

Venezuelan entities $ — §$ — $ 20 Venezuela impairment charges 
Tax amount — — (4) 

Net losses after tax $ — $ — §$ 16 


Available-for-sale securities: 


Selling, general and 


Sale of Britvic securities $ (99) $ — $ — administrative expenses 
Tax amount 10 — — 
Net gain after tax $ (89) $ — §$ — 


Total net (gains)/losses reclassified for the year, net 
of tax $ (82) $ 350 §$ 349 


(a) These items are included in the components of net periodic benefit cost for pension and retiree medical plans (see Note 7 for additional 
details). 


123 


Note 13 — Supplemental Financial Information 


Balance Sheet 


Accounts and notes receivable 
Trade receivables 


Other receivables 


Allowance, beginning of year 
Net amounts charged to expense 


Deductions 


Other ” 
Allowance, end of year 


Net receivables 
Inventories 

Raw materials and packaging 
Work-in-process 


Finished goods 


Other assets 


Noncurrent notes and accounts receivable 


Deferred marketplace spending 


Pension plans “ 


Other 


Accounts payable and other current liabilities 


Accounts payable 

Accrued marketplace spending 
Accrued compensation and benefits 
Dividends payable 


Other current liabilities 


(a) Includes accounts written off. 


(b) Includes adjustments related primarily to currency translation and other adjustments. 


134 
374 
346 
913 


6,727 
2,390 
1,785 
1,161 
2,954 


15,017 


2016 2015 


130 $ 137 
37 43 
(30) (27) 

(3) (23) 
134 $ 130 


$ 14,243 


(c) Approximately 5% of the inventory cost in 2017 and 2016 were computed using the LIFO method. The differences between LIFO and 


FIFO methods of valuing these inventories were not material. 


(d) See Note 7 for additional information regarding our pension plans. 


124 


Statement of Cash Flows 


2017 2016 2015 
Interest paid ® $ 1,123 $ 1,102 $ 952 
Income taxes paid, net of refunds $ 1,962 $ 1,393 $ 1,808 


(a) In 2016, interest paid excludes the premium paid in accordance with the “make-whole” provisions of the debt redemption discussed in 
Note 8. 


Lease Information 

2017 2016 2015 
Rent expense $ 742 $ 701 $ 696 
Minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases by period 


Operating Lease Payments 


2018 $ 452 
2019 403 
2020 297 
2021 215 
2022 160 
2023 and beyond 367 
Total minimum operating lease payments $ 1,894 


Note 14 — Divestitures 
Refranchising in Jordan 


During the fourth quarter of 2017, we refranchised our beverage business in Jordan by selling a controlling 
interest in our Jordan bottling operations. We recorded a pre-tax gain of $140 million ($107 million after- 
tax or $0.07 per share) in selling, general and administrative expenses in our AMENA segment as a result 
of this transaction. 


Refranchising in Thailand 


During the fourth quarter of 2017, we entered into an agreement to refranchise our beverage business in 
Thailand by selling a controlling interest in our Thailand bottling operations (included within our AMENA 
segment). The transaction is expected to be completed in 2018. 


Refranchising in Czech Republic, Hungary, and Slovakia (CHS) 


During the first quarter of 2018, we entered into an agreement to refranchise our entire beverage bottling 
operations and snack distribution operations in CHS (included within our ESSA segment). The transaction 
is expected to be completed in 2018. 


125 


Management’s Responsibility for Financial Reporting 
To Our Shareholders: 


At PepsiCo, our actions — the actions of all our associates — are governed by our Global Code of Conduct. 
This Code is clearly aligned with our stated values — a commitment to deliver sustained growth through 
empowered people acting with responsibility and building trust. Both the Code and our core values enable 
us to operate with integrity — both within the letter and the spirit of the law. Our Code of Conduct is reinforced 
consistently at all levels and in all countries. We have maintained strong governance policies and practices 
for many years. 


The management of PepsiCo is responsible for the objectivity and integrity of our consolidated financial 
statements. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has engaged independent registered public 
accounting firm, KPMG LLP, to audit our consolidated financial statements, and they have expressed an 
unqualified opinion. 


We are committed to providing timely, accurate and understandable information to investors. Ourcommitment 
encompasses the following: 


Maintaining strong controls over financial reporting. Our system of internal control is based on the control 
criteria framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission published 
in their report titled Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013). The system is designed to provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are executed as authorized and accurately recorded; that assets are 
safeguarded; and that accounting records are sufficiently reliable to permit the preparation of financial 
statements that conform in all material respects with accounting principles generally accepted in the United 
States. We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be 
disclosed in reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and 
reported within the specified time periods. We monitor these internal controls through self-assessments and 
an ongoing program of internal audits. Our internal controls are reinforced through our Global Code of 
Conduct, which sets forth our commitment to conduct business with integrity, and within both the letter and 
the spirit of the law. 


Exerting rigorous oversight of the business. We continuously review our business results and strategies. 
This encompasses financial discipline in our strategic and daily business decisions. Our Executive Committee 
is actively involved — from understanding strategies and alternatives to reviewing key initiatives and financial 
performance. The intent is to ensure we remain objective in our assessments, constructively challenge our 
approach to potential business opportunities and issues, and monitor results and controls. 


Engaging strong and effective Corporate Governance from our Board of Directors. We have an active, 
capable and diligent Board that meets the required standards for independence, and we welcome the Board’s 
oversight as a representative of our shareholders. Our Audit Committee is comprised of independent directors 
with the financial literacy, knowledge and experience to provide appropriate oversight. We review our critical 
accounting policies, financial reporting and internal control matters with them and encourage their direct 
communication with KPMG LLP, with our Internal Auditor and with our General Counsel. We also have a 
Compliance & Ethics Department, led by our Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer, who coordinates our 
compliance policies and practices. 


Providing investors with financial results that are complete, transparent and understandable. The 
consolidated financial statements and financial information included in this report are the responsibility of 
management. This includes preparing the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles 
generally accepted in the United States, which require estimates based on management’s best judgment. 


126 


PepsiCo has a strong history of doing what’s right. We realize that great companies are built on trust, 
strong ethical standards and principles. Our financial results are delivered from that culture of accountability, 
and we take responsibility for the quality and accuracy of our financial reporting. 


February 13, 2018 


/s/ MARIE T. GALLAGHER 
Marie T. Gallagher 


Senior Vice President and Controller 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 


/s/ HUGH F. JOHNSTON 
Hugh F. Johnston 


Vice Chairman, Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer 


/s/ INDRA K. NOOYI 
Indra K. Nooyi 


Chairman of the Board of Directors and 
Chief Executive Officer 


127 


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 


To the Shareholders and Board of Directors 
PepsiCo, Inc.: 


Opinions on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting 


We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries (the 
“Company” as of December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and the related Consolidated Statements 
of Income, Comprehensive Income, Cash Flows, and Equity for each of the fiscal years in the three-year 
period ended December 30, 2017 and the related notes (collectively, the “consolidated financial 
statements’). We also have audited the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of 
December 30, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 


In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material 
respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and the 
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended 
December 30, 2017, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our 
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial 
reporting as of December 30, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated 
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 


Basis for Opinion 


The Company’s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining 
effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal 
control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control 
over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated 
financial statements and an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on 
our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in 
accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities 
and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 


We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we 
plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial 
statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal 
control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 


Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of 
material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and 
performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, 
evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also 
included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as 
well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal 
control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial 
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and 
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing 
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide 
a reasonable basis for our opinions. 


128 


Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 


A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for 
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal 
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance 
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, 
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations 
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have 
a material effect on the financial statements. 


Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect 
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk 
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance 
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 


/s/ KPMG LLP 


We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1990. 


New York, New York 
February 13, 2018 


129 


GLOSSARY 


Acquisitions and divestitures: all mergers and acquisitions activity, including the impact of acquisitions, 
divestitures and changes in ownership or control in consolidated subsidiaries and nonconsolidated equity 
investees. 


Bottler Case Sales (BCS): measure of physical beverage volume shipped to retailers and independent 
distributors from both PepsiCo and our independent bottlers. 


Bottler funding: financial incentives we give to our independent bottlers to assist in the distribution and 
promotion of our beverage products. 


Concentrate Shipments and Equivalents (CSE): measure of our physical beverage volume shipments to 
independent bottlers, retailers and independent distributors. 


Constant currency: financial results assuming constant foreign currency exchange rates used for translation 
based on the rates in effect for the comparable prior-year period. In order to compute our constant currency 
results, we multiply or divide, as appropriate, our current year U.S. dollar results by the current year average 
foreign exchange rates and then multiply or divide, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior year average 
foreign exchange rates. 


Consumers: people who eat and drink our products. 
CSD: carbonated soft drinks. 
Customers: authorized independent bottlers, distributors and retailers. 


Derivatives: financial instruments, such as futures, swaps, Treasury locks, cross currency swaps and forward 
contracts that we use to manage our risk arising from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign 
exchange rates. 


Direct-Store-Delivery (DSD): delivery system used by us and our independent bottlers to deliver snacks 
and beverages directly to retail stores where our products are merchandised. 


Effective net pricing: reflects the year-over-year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales incentive activities 
and mix resulting from selling varying products in different package sizes and in different countries. 


Free cash flow: net cash provided by operating activities less capital spending plus sales of property, plant 
and equipment. 


Hedge accounting: treatment for qualifying hedges that allows fluctuations in a hedging instrument’s fair 
value to offset corresponding fluctuations in the hedged item in the same reporting period. Hedge accounting 
is allowed only in cases where the hedging relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged items 
is highly effective, and only prospectively from the date a hedging relationship is formally documented. 


Independent bottlers: customers to whom we have granted exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture 
certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographical area. 


Mark-to-market net gain or loss: change in market value for commodity derivative contracts that we 
purchase to mitigate the volatility in costs of energy and raw materials that we consume. The market value 
is determined based on prices on national exchanges and recently reported transactions in the marketplace. 


130 


Organic: a measure that adjusts for impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and other structural changes, 
including the Venezuela deconsolidation which was effective as of the end of the third quarter of 2015, and 
foreign exchange translation. In excluding the impact of foreign exchange translation, we assume constant 
foreign exchange rates used for translation based on the rates in effect for the comparable prior-year period. 
See the definition of “Constant currency” for additional information. This measure also excludes the impact 
of the 53™ reporting week in 2016. 


Servings: common metric reflecting our consolidated physical unit volume. Our divisions’ physical unit 
measures are converted into servings based on U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidelines for single- 
serving sizes of our products. 


Total marketplace spending: includes sales incentives and discounts offered through various programs to 
our customers, consumers or independent bottlers, as well as advertising and other marketing activities. 


Transaction gains and losses: the impact on our consolidated financial statements of exchange rate changes 
arising from specific transactions. 


Translation adjustment: the impact of converting our foreign affiliates’ financial statements into U.S. dollars 
for the purpose of consolidating our financial statements. 


131 


Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 


Included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
— Our Business Risks.” 


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 


See “Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.” 


Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 


Not applicable. 


Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. 


(a) Disclosure Controls and Procedures. As of the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out 
an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure 
controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this report our disclosure controls 
and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or 
submit under the Exchange Act is (1) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods 
specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and (2) accumulated and communicated 
to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to 
allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 


(b) Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our management is 
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term 
is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and with the participation of our 
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation 
of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based upon criteria established in Internal 
Control — Integrated Framework (2013) by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission. Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial 
reporting was effective as of December 30, 2017. 


Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm. KPMG LLP, an independent registered public 
accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 
10-K and, as part of their audit, has issued their report, included herein, on the effectiveness of our internal 
control over financial reporting. 


(c) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting. There were no changes in our internal control 
over financial reporting during our fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 that have materially affected, or are reasonably 
likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 


During our fourth fiscal quarter of 2017, we continued migrating certain of our financial processing systems 
to an enterprise-wide systems solution. These systems implementations are part of our ongoing global business 
transformation initiative, and we plan to continue implementing such systems throughout other parts of our 
businesses. In connection with these implementations and resulting business process changes, we continue 
to enhance the design and documentation of our internal control over financial reporting processes to maintain 
effective controls over our financial reporting. This transition has not materially affected, and we do not 
expect it to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 


132 


Item 9B. Other Information. 
Not applicable. 


PART III 
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 


Information about our directors and persons nominated to become directors is contained under the caption 
“Election of Directors” in our Proxy Statement for our 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with 
the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 (the 2018 Proxy Statement) and is 
incorporated herein by reference. Information about our executive officers is reported under the caption 
“Executive Officers of the Registrant” in Part I of this report. 


Information on beneficial ownership reporting compliance is contained under the caption “Ownership of 
PepsiCo Common Stock — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in our 2018 Proxy 
Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 


We have a written code of conduct that applies to all of our employees, including our Chairman of the Board 
of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller, and to our Board of Directors. 
Our Global Code of Conduct is distributed to all employees and is available on our website at http:// 
www.pepsico.com. A copy of our Global Code of Conduct may be obtained free of charge by writing to 
Investor Relations, PepsiCo, Inc., 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577. Any amendment to 
our Global Code of Conduct and any waiver applicable to our executive officers or senior financial officers 
will be posted on our website within the time period required by the SEC and applicable rules of The Nasdaq 
Stock Market LLC. 


Information about the procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to our Board of 
Directors can be found in our 2018 Proxy Statement under the caption “Board Composition and Refreshment 
— Shareholder Recommendations and Nominations of Director Candidates” and is incorporated herein by 
reference. 


Information concerning the composition of the Audit Committee and our Audit Committee financial experts 
is contained in our 2018 Proxy Statement under the caption “Corporate Governance at PepsiCo —Committees 
of the Board of Directors — Audit Committee” and is incorporated herein by reference. 


Item 11. Executive Compensation. 


Information about director and executive officer compensation, Compensation Committee interlocks and the 
Compensation Committee Report is contained in our 2018 Proxy Statement under the captions “2017 Director 
Compensation,” “Executive Compensation,” “Corporate Governance at PepsiCo — Committees of the Board 
of Directors - Compensation Committee — Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” 
and “Executive Compensation — Compensation Committee Report” and is incorporated herein by reference. 


Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder 
Matters. 


Information with respect to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans can be found 
under the caption “Executive Compensation — Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation 
Plans” in our 2018 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 


Information on the number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock beneficially owned by each director and 
named executive officer, by all directors and executive officers as a group and on each beneficial owner of 
more than 5% of PepsiCo Common Stock is contained under the caption “Ownership of PepsiCo Common 
Stock” in our 2018 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 


133 


Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 


Information with respect to certain relationships and related transactions and director independence is 
contained under the captions “Corporate Governance at PepsiCo — Related Person Transactions” and 
“Corporate Governance at PepsiCo — Director Independence” in our 2018 Proxy Statement and is incorporated 
herein by reference. 


Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 


Information on our Audit Committee’s pre-approval policy and procedures for audit and other services and 
information on our principal accountant fees and services is contained in our 2018 Proxy Statement under 
the caption “Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — Audit and 
Other Fees” and is incorporated herein by reference. 


134 


PART IV 


Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 


(a)1. 


(a)2. 


(a)3. 


Financial Statements 

The following consolidated financial statements of PepsiCo, Inc. and its affiliates are included herein 
by reference to the pages indicated on the index appearing in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”: 


Consolidated Statement of Income — Fiscal years ended December 30, 2017, December 31, 2016 and 
December 26, 2015 


Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income — Fiscal years ended December 30, 2017, 
December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015 


Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows — Fiscal years ended December 30, 2017, December 31, 2016 
and December 26, 2015 


Consolidated Balance Sheet — December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 


Consolidated Statement of Equity — Fiscal years ended December 30, 2017, December 31, 2016 and 
December 26, 2015 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
Financial Statement Schedules 


These schedules are omitted because they are not required or because the information is set forth in 
the financial statements or the notes thereto. 


Exhibits 
See Index to Exhibits. 


135, 


Item 16. Form 10-K Summary. 


None. 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS 
ITEM 15(a)(3) 


The following is a list of the exhibits filed as part of this Form 10-K. The documents incorporated by 
reference are located in the SEC’s Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. in the SEC’s file no. 
1-1183. 


EXHIBIT 


3.1 Articles of Incorporation of PepsiCo, Inc., as amended and restated, effective as of May 9, 
2011, which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 9, 2011. 


3.2 By-laws of PepsiCo, Inc., as amended and restated, effective as of January 11, 2016, which 
are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 11, 2016. 


4.1 PepsiCo, Inc. agrees to furnish to the SEC, upon request, a copy of any instrument defining 
the rights of holders of long-term debt of PepsiCo, Inc. and all of its subsidiaries for which 
consolidated or unconsolidated financial statements are required to be filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission. 


4.2 Indenture dated May 21, 2007 between PepsiCo, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon 
(formerly known as The Bank of New York), as Trustee, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR 
(Registration No. 333-154314) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 
15, 2008. 


4.3 Form of 5.00% Senior Note due 2018, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 21, 2008. 


4.4 Form of 7.90% Senior Note due 2018, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 24, 2008. 


4.5 Form of 4.50% Senior Note due 2020, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on January 13, 2010. 


4.6 Form of 5.50% Senior Note due 2040, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on January 13, 2010. 


4.7 Form of 3.125% Senior Note due 2020, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 25, 2010. 


4.8 Form of 4.875% Senior Note due 2040, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 25, 2010. 


4.9 Form of 0.950% Senior Notes due 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on February 28, 2014. 


4.10 Form of 3.600% Senior Notes due 2024, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on February 28, 2014. 


4.11 Form of 1.750% Senior Notes due 2021, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on April 28, 2014. 


136 


4.12 


4.13 


4.14 


4.15 


4.16 


4.17 


4.18 


4.19 


4.20 


4.21 


4.22 


4.23 


4.24 


4.25 


4.26 


4.27 


4.28 


Form of 2.625% Senior Notes due 2026, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on April 28, 2014. 


Form of 4.250% Senior Notes due 2044, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 of PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 22, 2014. 


Form of Floating Rate Notes due 2018, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on April 30, 2015. 


Form of 1.250% Senior Notes due 2018, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on April 30, 2015. 


Form of 1.850% Senior Notes due 2020, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on April 30, 2015. 


Form of 2.750% Senior Notes due 2025, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on April 30, 2015. 


Form of Floating Rate Notes due 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on July 17, 2015. 


Form of 1.125% Senior Notes due 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on July 17, 2015. 


Form of 3.100% Senior Notes due 2022, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on July 17, 2015. 


Form of 3.500% Senior Notes due 2025, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on July 17, 2015. 


Form of 4.600% Senior Notes due 2045, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on July 17, 2015. 


Form of Floating Rate Notes due 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 14, 2015. 


Form of 1.000% Senior Notes due 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 14, 2015. 


Form of 2.150% Senior Notes due 2020, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 14, 2015. 


Form of 4.450% Senior Notes due 2046, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 14, 2015. 


Form of Floating Rate Note due 2019, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on February 24, 2016. 


Form of 1.500% Senior Notes due 2019, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on February 24, 2016. 


137 


4.29 


4.30 


4.31 


4.32 


4.33 


4.34 


4.35 


4.36 


4.37 


4.38 


4.39 


4.40 


4.41 


4.42 


4.43 


4.44 


4.45 


Form of 2.850% Senior Notes due 2026, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on February 24, 2016. 


Form of 4.450% Senior Notes due 2046, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on February 24, 2016. 


Form of 0.875% Senior Note due 2028, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on July 18, 2016. 


Form of Floating Rate Note due 2019, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 6, 2016. 


Form of Floating Rate Note due 2021, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 6, 2016. 


Form of 1.350% Senior Notes due 2019, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 6, 2016. 


Form of 1.700% Senior Notes due 2021, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 6, 2016. 


Form of 2.375% Senior Notes due 2026, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 6, 2016. 


Form of 3.450% Senior Notes due 2046, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.6 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 6, 2016. 


Form of Floating Rate Notes due 2019, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 2, 2017. 


Form of Floating Rate Notes due 2022, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 2, 2017. 


Form of 1.550% Senior Notes due 2019, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 2, 2017. 


Form of 2.250% Senior Notes due 2022, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 2, 2017. 


Form of 4.000% Senior Notes due 2047, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 2, 2017. 
Form of 2.150% Senior Notes due 2024, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 4, 2017. 


Form of Floating Rate Notes due 2018, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 10, 2017. 


Form of 2.000% Senior Notes due 2021, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 10, 2017. 


138 


4.46 


4.47 


4.48 


4.49 


4.50 


4.51 


4.52 


4.53 


4.54 


4.55 


4.56 


4.57 


Form of 3.000% Senior Notes due 2027, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 10, 2017. 


Board of Directors Resolutions Authorizing PepsiCo, Inc.’s Officers to Establish the Terms 
of the 4.50% Senior Note due 2020, 5.50% Senior Note due 2040, 3.125% Senior Note due 
2020 and 4.875% Senior Note due 2040, which are incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 24 weeks ended June 12, 
2010. 


Form of 2.500% Senior Note due 2016, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 6, 2011. 


Board of Directors Resolutions Authorizing PepsiCo, Inc.’s Officers to Establish the Terms 
of the 2.500% Senior Note due 2016, the 3.000% Senior Note due 2021, the 2.750% Senior 
Note due 2022, the 4.000% Senior Note due 2042, the 1.250% Senior Note due 2017, the 
3.600% Senior Note due 2042 and the 2.500% Senior Note due 2022, which are incorporated 
herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2011. 


Form of 3.000% Senior Note due 2021, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on August 25, 2011. 


Form of 2.750% Senior Note due 2022, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on March 2, 2012. 


Form of 4.000% Senior Note due 2042, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on March 2, 2012. 


Form of 1.250% Senior Note due 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on August 13, 2012. 


Form of 3.600% Senior Note due 2042, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on August 13, 2012. 


Form of 2.500% Senior Note due 2022, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 30, 2012. 


Indenture dated as of October 24, 2008 among PepsiCo, Inc., Bottling Group, LLC and The 
Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 24, 2008. 


Form of 2.750% Senior Note due 2023, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on February 28, 2013. 


139 


4.58 


4.59 


4.60 


4.61 


4.62 


4.63 


4.64 


4.65 


Board of Directors Resolutions Authorizing PepsiCo, Inc.’s Officers to Establish the Terms 
of the 2.750% Senior Note due 2023, the 2.250% Senior Notes due 2019, the 0.950% Senior 
Notes due 2017, the 3.600% Senior Notes due 2024, the 1.750% Senior Notes due 2021, the 
2.625% Senior Notes due 2026, the 4.250% Senior Notes due 2044, the Floating Rate Notes 
due 2018, 1.250% Senior Notes due 2018, the 1.850% Senior Notes due 2020, the 2.750% 
Senior Notes due 2025, the Floating Rate Notes due 2017, the 1.125% Senior Notes due 2017, 
the 3.100% Senior Notes due 2022, the 3.500% Senior Notes due 2025, the 4.600% Senior 
Notes due 2045, the Floating Rate Notes due 2017, the 1.000% Senior Notes due 2017, the 
2.150% Senior Notes due 2020, the 4.450% Senior Notes due 2046, the Floating Rate Note 
due 2019, the 1.500% Senior Notes due 2019, the 2.850% Senior Notes due 2026, the 0.875% 
Senior Note due 2028, the Floating Rate Note due 2019, the Floating Rate Note due 2021, 
the 1.350% Senior Notes due 2019, the 1.700% Senior Notes due 2021, the 2.375% Senior 
Notes due 2026, the 3.450% Senior Notes due 2046, the Floating Rate Notes due 2019, the 
Floating Rate Notes due 2022, the 1.550% Senior Notes due 2019, the 2.250% Senior Notes 
due 2022, the 4.000% Senior Notes due 2047, the 2.150% Senior Notes due 2024, the Floating 
Rate Notes due 2018, the 2.000% Senior Notes due 2021 and the 3.000% Senior Notes due 
2027 which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28, 
2013. 


Form of 2.250% Senior Notes due 2019, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on July 30, 2013. 


First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 26, 2010, among Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan 
Bottling Company, Inc., The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc., Bottling Group, LLC and The Bank 
of New York Mellon to the Indenture dated March 8, 1999 between The Pepsi Bottling Group, 
Inc., Bottling Group, LLC and The Chase Manhattan Bank, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2010. 


Indenture, dated as of March 8, 1999, by and among The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc., as obligor, 
Bottling Group, LLC, as guarantor, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as trustee, relating to 
$1,000,000,000 7% Series B Senior Note due 2029, which is incorporated herein by reference 
to Exhibit 10.14 to The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 
(Registration No. 333-70291). 


Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 26, 2010, among Pepsi-Cola 
Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc., PepsiAmericas, Inc. and The Bank New York Mellon 
Trust Company, N.A. to the Indenture dated as of January 15, 1993 between Whitman 
Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee, which is incorporated herein 
by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2010. 


First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 20, 1999, including the Indenture dated as of 
January 15, 1993, between Whitman Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, 
as trustee, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Post-Effective 
Amendment No. | to PepsiAmericas, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration 
No. 333-64292) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 29, 2005. 


Form of PepsiAmericas, Inc. 7.29% Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by reference 
to Exhibit 4.7 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended 
March 20, 2010. 


Form of PepsiAmericas, Inc. 7.44% Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by reference 
to Exhibit 4.8 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended 
March 20, 2010. 


140 


4.66 


4.67 


4.68 


4.69 


4.70 


4.71 


4.72 


4.73 


4.74 


10.1 


10.2 


10.3 


10.4 


10.5 


First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 26, 2010, among Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan 
Bottling Company, Inc., PepsiAmericas, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association to 
the Indenture dated as of August 15, 2003 between PepsiAmericas, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank 
Minnesota, National Association, as trustee, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 1, 2010. 


Indenture dated as of August 15, 2003 between PepsiAmericas, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank 
Minnesota, National Association, as trustee, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4 to PepsiAmericas, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration 
No. 333-108164) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 22, 2003. 


Form of PepsiAmericas, Inc. 5.00% Note due 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference 
to Exhibit 4.16 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period 
ended March 20, 2010. 


Form of PepsiAmericas, Inc. 5.50% Note due 2035, which is incorporated herein by reference 
to Exhibit 4.17 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period 
ended March 20, 2010. 


Indenture, dated as of October 1, 2003, by and between Bottling Group, LLC, as obligor, and 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to 
Bottling Group, LLC’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 3, 2003. 


Indenture, dated as of March 30, 2006, by and between Bottling Group, LLC, as obligor, and 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as trustee, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
ended March 25, 2006. 


Form of Bottling Group, LLC 5.50% Senior Note due April 1, 2016, which is incorporated 
herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on 
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 25, 2006. 


Form of Bottling Group, LLC 5.125% Senior Note due January 15, 2019, which is incorporated 
herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Bottling Group, LLC’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 20, 2009. 


Form of PepsiCo Guarantee of Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc.’s 7.00% Note 
due 2029, 7.29% Note due 2026, 7.44% Note due 2026, 5.00% Note due 2017, 5.50% Note 
due 2035 and Bottling Group, LLC’s 5.50% Note due 2016 and 5.125% Note due 2019, which 
is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 5, 2010. 


PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program (Plan Document for the Pre-409A Program), 
amended and restated effective December 20, 2017.* 


PepsiCo, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective September 
12, 2008, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 6, 2008.* 


PepsiCo, Inc. Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit B to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Proxy Statement for its 2009 Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 24, 2009.* 


Form of PepsiCo, Inc. Director Indemnification Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.20 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year 
ended December 25, 2004.* 


Severance Plan for Executive Employees of PepsiCo, Inc. and Affiliates, which is incorporated 
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
fiscal quarter ended September 6, 2008.* 


141 


10.6 


10.7 


10.8 


10.9 


10.10 


10.11 


10.12 


10.13 


10.14 


10.15 


10.16 


10.17 


10.18 


10.19 


10.20 


10.21 


Amendments to the PepsiCo, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plans, the PepsiCo, Inc. 1994 
Long-Term Incentive Plan, the PepsiCo, Inc. 1995 Stock Option Incentive Plan, the PepsiCo 
SharePower Stock Option Plan, the PepsiCo, Inc. 1987 Incentive Plan effective as of December 
31, 2005, which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.* 


Amendments to the PepsiCo, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the PepsiCo SharePower 
Stock Option Plan, the PepsiCo, Inc. 1995 Stock Option Incentive Plan, the Quaker Long- 
Term Incentive Plan of 1999, the Quaker Long-Term Incentive Plan of 1990 and the PepsiCo, 
Inc. Director Stock Plan, effective as of November 17, 2006, which are incorporated herein 
by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 
year ended December 30, 2006.* 


Form of Non-Employee Director Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is 
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 9, 2006.* 


Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission on February 7, 2007.* 


Form of Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated 
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 7, 2007.* 


Form of Pro Rata Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission on May 8, 2007.* 


Form of Stock Option Retention Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference 
to Exhibit 10.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on May 8, 2007.* 


PepsiCo, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated March 12, 2010, 
which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report 
on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 11, 2010.* 


Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission on February 7, 2008.* 


Form of Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated 
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 7, 2008.* 


Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009.* 


Form of Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated 
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009.* 


Form of Pro Rata Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009.* 


Form of Stock Option Retention Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference 
to Exhibit 10.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009.* 


Form of Restricted Stock Unit Retention Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009.* 


Form of Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, whichis incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
10 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 21, 
2009.* 


142 


10.22 


10.23 


10.24 


10.25 


10.26 


10.27 


10.28 


10.29 


10.30 


10.31 


10.32 


10.33 


10.34 


10.35 


10.36 


PBG 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
99.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 as filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on February 26, 2010 (Registration No. 333-165107).* 


PBG Stock Incentive Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.6 to 
PepsiCo, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 as filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on February 26, 2010 (Registration No. 333-165107).* 


Amendments to PBG 2002 Long Term Incentive Plan, PBG Long Term Incentive Plan, The 
Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. 1999 Long Term Incentive Plan and PBG Stock Incentive Plan 
(effective February 8, 2007), which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.7 to 
PepsiCo, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 as filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on February 26, 2010 (Registration No. 333-165107).* 


Amendments to PBG 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan, PBG 2002 Long Term Incentive Plan, 
The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan, The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. 
1999 Long Term Incentive Plan, PBG Directors’ Stock Plan and PBG Stock Incentive Plan 
(effective February 19, 2010), which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.8 to 
PepsiCo, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 as filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on February 26, 2010 (Registration No. 333-165107).* 


Specified Employee Amendments to Arrangements Subject to Section 409A of the Internal 
Revenue Code, adopted February 18, 2010 and March 29, 2010, which is incorporated herein 
by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
quarterly period ended March 20, 2010.* 


Form of Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated 
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 16, 2010.* 


PBG Executive Income Deferral Program (Plan Document for the 409A Program), as 
amended, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.67 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2010.* 


PBG Executive Income Deferral Program (Plan Document for the Pre-409A Program), as 
amended and restated effective as of December 20, 2017.* 


Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly 
period ended March 24, 2012.* 


Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2013.* 


PepsiCo, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated March 13, 2014, 
which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report 
on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 14, 2014.* 


PepsiCo, Inc. Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective 
February 7, 2014, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit B to PepsiCo, Inc.’s 
Proxy Statement for its 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 21, 2014.* 


The PepsiCo International Retirement Plan Defined Benefit Program, as amended and restated 
effective as of January 1, 2016, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.40 to 
PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016.* 


The PepsiCo International Retirement Plan Defined Contribution Program, as amended and 
restated effective as of January 1, 2016, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
10.41 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2016.* 

PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 4, 2016), which is 
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit B to PepsiCo’s Proxy Statement for its 2016 Annual 
Meeting of Shareholders, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 
2016.* 


143 


10.37 


10.38 


10.39 


10.40 


10.41 


10.42 


10.43 


10.44 


10.45 
10.46 


10.47 
12 
21 
23 
24 
31 


32 


101 


Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly 
period ended March 19, 2016.* 


PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan (the Plan Document for the Pre-409A Program), as 
amended and restated effective as of April 1, 2016, which is incorporated herein by reference 
to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period 
ended March 19, 2016.* 


PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan (Plan Document for the Section 409A Program), January 
1, 2017 Restatement.* 


PepsiCo Automatic Retirement Contribution Equalization Plan, as amended and restated 
effective as of April 1, 2016, with amendments through December 12, 2016, which is 
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.47 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016.* 


PepsiCo Director Deferral Program (Plan Document for the 409A Program), amended and 
restated effective as of December 20, 2017.* 


Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.49 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year 
ended December 31, 2016.* 


PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program (Plan Document for the 409A Program), 
amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2005 (with amendments through March 9, 
2017), which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 25, 2017.* 

Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of June 5, 2017, among PepsiCo, Inc., as borrower, the 
lenders named therein, and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, which is incorporated 
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 6, 2017. 


Amendment to Certain PepsiCo Award Agreements. * 

Amendment to the PBG 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan and the PBG Stock Incentive Plan, 
effective December 20, 2017.* 

PepsiCo, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated December 20, 2017).* 
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 

Subsidiaries of PepsiCo, Inc. 

Consent of KPMG LLP. 

Power of Attorney. 


Certification of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
Certification of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 


The following materials from PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year 
ended December 30, 2017 formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): 
(i) the Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii) the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income, (iii) the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, (iv) the Consolidated Balance Sheet, 
(v) the Consolidated Statement of Equity and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 


Management contracts and compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 15 


(a)(3) of this report. 


144 


SIGNATURES 


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, PepsiCo has 
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 


Dated: February 13, 2018 


PepsiCo, Inc. 


By: /s/ Indra K. Nooyi 
Indra K. Nooyi 


Chairman of the Board of Directors and 
Chief Executive Officer 


145 


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by 
the following persons on behalf of PepsiCo and in the capacities and on the date indicated. 


SIGNATURE TITLE DATE 

/s/__ Indra K. Nooyi Chairman of the Board of Directors and February 13, 2018 
Indra K. Nooyi Chief Executive Officer 

/s/__Hugh F. Johnston Vice Chairman, Executive Vice President February 13, 2018 
Hugh F. Johnston and Chief Financial Officer 

/s/__ Marie T. Gallagher Senior Vice President and Controller February 13, 2018 
Marie T. Gallagher (Principal Accounting Officer) 

/s/__ Shona L. Brown Director February 13, 2018 
Shona L. Brown 

/s/__George W. Buckley Director February 13, 2018 
George W. Buckley 

/s/__ Cesar Conde Director February 13, 2018 
Cesar Conde 

/s/__ Yan M. Cook Director February 13, 2018 
Ian M. Cook 

/s/__ Dina Dublon Director February 13, 2018 
Dina Dublon 

/s/__ Richard W. Fisher Director February 13, 2018 
Richard W. Fisher 

/s/__ William R. Johnson Director February 13, 2018 
William R. Johnson 

/s/__ David C. Page Director February 13, 2018 
David C. Page 

/s/__ Robert C. Pohlad Director February 13, 2018 
Robert C. Pohlad 

/s/__ Daniel Vasella Director February 13, 2018 
Daniel Vasella 

/s/__ Darren Walker Director February 13, 2018 
Darren Walker 

/s/__ Alberto Weisser Director February 13, 2018 
Alberto Weisser 


146 


Reconciliation of GAAP and 
Non-GAAP Information 


Organic, core and constant currency results, as well as ROIC, 
core net ROIC, free cash flow and free cash flow excluding certain 
items, are not in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We use non-GAAP 
financial measures internally to make operating and strategic 
decisions, including the preparation of our annual operating plan, 
evaluation of our overall business performance and as a factor 
in determining compensation for certain employees. We believe 
presenting non-GAAP financial measures provides additional 
information to facilitate comparison of our historical operating 
results and trends in our underlying operating results, and pro- 
vides additional transparency on how we evaluate our business. 
We also believe presenting these measures allows investors to 
view our performance using the same measures that we use in 
evaluating our financial and business performance and trends. 


We consider quantitative and qualitative factors in assessing 
whether to adjust for the impact of items that may be significant 
or that could affect an understanding of our ongoing financial 
and business performance or trends. The non-GAAP financial 
measures contained in this Annual Report exclude the impact of 
the following items: 


Commodity Mark-to-Market Net Impact: Mark-to-market 

net gains and losses on commodity derivatives in corporate 
unallocated expenses. These gains and losses are subsequently 
reflected in division results when the divisions recognize the cost 
of the underlying commodity in operating profit. 


Restructuring and Impairment Charges: Expenses related to the 
2014 and 2012 Productivity Plans. 


Provisional Net Tax Expense Related to the TCJ Act: |n 2017, 
provisional net tax expense of $2.5 billion associated with the 
enactment of the TCJ Act. Included in the net tax expense of 
$2.5 billion is a provisional mandatory one-time transition tax of 
approximately $4 billion on undistributed international earnings. 
This mandatory one-time transition tax was partially offset 

by a provisional $1.5 billion benefit resulting from the required 
remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to the 
new, lower U.S. corporate income tax rate. 


Charges Related to the Transaction with Tingyi: In 2016, 
impairment charge of $373 million to reduce the value of our 
5% indirect equity interest in TAB to its estimated fair value. In 
2015, charge of $73 million related to a write-off of the value 
of acall option to increase our holding in TAB to 20%. In 2012, 
restructuring and other charges of $150 million related toa 
transaction with Tingyi. 


2017 PepsiCo AnnualReport | 147 


Charge Related to Debt Redemption: |n 2016, interest expense 
primarily representing the premium paid in accordance with 
the “make-whole” redemption provisions to redeem all of our 
outstanding 7.900% senior notes due 2018 and 5.125% senior 
notes due 2019 for the principal amounts of $1.5 billion and 
$750 million, respectively. 


Pension-Related Settlements: |n 2016, pension settlement charge 
of $242 million related to the purchase of a group annuity contract. 
In 2015, benefits of $67 million associated with the settlement of 
pension-related liabilities from previous acquisitions. In 2014 and 
2012, lump sum settlement charges of $141 million and $195 million, 
respectively, related to payments for pension liabilities to certain 
former employees who had vested benefits. 


Venezuela Impairment Charges: In 2015, charges of $1.4 billion 
related to the impairment of investments in our wholly-owned 
Venezuelan subsidiaries and beverage joint venture. 


Tax Benefit: |n 2015, non-cash tax benefit of $230 million 
associated with our agreement with the IRS resolving 
substantially all open matters related to the audits for taxable 
years 2010 through 2011, which reduced our reserve for uncertain 
tax positions for the tax years 2010 through 2011. In 2013, non- 
cash tax benefit of $209 million associated with our agreement 
with the IRS resolving all open matters related to the audits for 
taxable years 2003 through 2009, which reduced our reserve 
for uncertain tax positions for the tax years 2003 through 2012. 
In 2012, non-cash tax benefit of $217 million associated with 

a favorable tax court decision related to the classification of 
financial instruments. 


Venezuela Remeasurement Charges: |In 2014, net charge of 

$105 million related to our remeasurement of the bolivar for certain 
net monetary assets of our Venezuelan businesses. In 2013, net 
charge of $111 million related to the devaluation of the bolivar for 
our Venezuelan businesses. 


Merger and Integration Charges: |n 2013 and 2012, merger and 
integration charges of $10 million and $16 million, respectively, 
related to our acquisition of WBD. 


Additionally, free cash flow excluding certain items is a measure 
management uses to monitor cash flow performance. Since net 
capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives 
and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that 
itis arecurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe 
investors should also consider net capital spending when 
evaluating our cash from operating activities. We also consider 
certain other items (included in the Net Cash Provided by 
Operating Activities Reconciliation table below) in evaluating Free 
cash flow that we believe investors should consider in evaluating 
our free cash flow results. 


2017 PepsiCo Annual Report | 148 


For more information regarding these non-GAAP measures, 
including further information on the excluded items for the years 
2017, 2016 and 2015, see pages 53-58, 70 and 72 in Management's 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 

of Operations. 


Non-GAAP information should be considered as supplemental 
in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as 

a substitute for the related financial information prepared in 
accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, our non-GAAP financial 
measures may not be the same as or comparable to similar 
non-GAAP measures presented by other companies. 


Total Operating Profit Reconciliation Operating Margin Growth Reconciliation 


Year Ended Year Ended 
12/30/17 — 12/31/16 Growth 12/30/17 


$10,509 $ 9,785 


Charge Related to the Transaction 


eS  saetcicdli ail cnta a rasienesin uae emsuae | ineseannie Charge Related to the Transaction with Tingyi (59) 
Pension-Related Settlement Charge - 242 Core Operating Margin Growth 43bps 
Core Operating Profit $10,789 $10,393 4% 


Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Reconciliation 


Year Ended 
12/30/17 12/31/16 ~— Growth 
$9,994 $10,673 


a Net Cash Tax Benefit Related to Debt Redemption Charge - (83) 
Free Cash Flow Excluding Certain Items $7,293 $ 8,055 


Net Revenue Growth Reconciliation 


Year Ended 


5-Year 
CAGR® 12/30/17 12/31/16 12/26/15 12/27/14 12/28/13 


Organic Revenue Growth 4% 2% 4% 5% 4% 4% 


(a) Compound Annual Growth Rate 


Note — Dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts. Certain amounts above may not sum due to rounding. 


2017 PepsiCo Annual Report | 149 


Operating Margin Growth Reconciliation 


Year Ended 
5-Year 
12/30/17, 12/29/12 Growth 
Reported Operating Margin 17% 14% 263bps 


Charges Related to the Transaction 
with Tingyi - - 


Merger and Integration Charges - - 
Core Operating Margin 17% 15% 220bps 


Diluted EPS Growth Reconciliation 


Year Ended 
12/30/17 12/31/16 = 12/26/15. 12/27/14. 12/28/13, 12/29/12 
Reported Diluted EPS $ 3.38 $ 4.36 $ 3.67 $ 4.27 $ 4.32 $ 3.92 


Tax Benefits - - (0.15) - (0.13) (0.14) 
Core Diluted EPS $ 5.23 $ 4.85 $ 4.57 $ 4.63 $ 4.37 $ 4.10 
5-Year 
Average 
Reported Diluted EPS Growth (2)% (23)% 19% (14)% (1)% 10% 


Core 5% (1) 
Foreign Exchange Translation 1 3 " 3 2 
Core Constant Currency Diluted EPS Growth 9% 9% 9% 10% 9% 9% 
ROIC 
Year Ended 
12/30/17 12/31/16 12/29/12 
Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo $ 4,857 6,329 $ 6,178 


Average Common Shareholders’ Equity 12,004 11,943 21,603 
Average Invested Capital $ 50,711 47,251 $49,426 
ROIC 11.0% 15.2% 13.7% 


Note — Dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts. Certain amounts above may not sum due to rounding. 


2017 PepsiCo Annual Report | 150 


Core Net ROIC Growth Reconciliation 


Year Ended 


Growth vs. 5-Year 
12/30/17 12/31/16 12/29/12 Prior Year Growth 
ROIC 11.0% 15.2% 13.7% (420) bps (270) bps 


Tax Benefits 


Core Net ROIC 


22.9% 21.5% 15.3% 140 bps 760 bps 


Note — Dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts. Certain amounts above may not sum due to rounding. 


Forward-Looking Statements 


This Annual Report contains statements reflecting our views 
about our future performance that constitute “forward-looking 
statements’ within the meaning of the Private Securities 
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (Reform Act). Statements that 
constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of 
the Reform Act are generally identified through the inclusion 
of words such as “aim,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “drive,” “estimate,” 
“expect,” “expressed confidence,” “forecast,” “future,” “goal,” 
“guidance,” “intend,” “may,” “objective,” “outlook,” “plan,” 
“position,” “potential,” “project,” “seek,” “should,” “strategy,” 
“target,” “will” or similar statements or variations of such words 
and other similar expressions. All statements addressing our 
future operating performance, and statements addressing 
events and developments that we expect or anticipate will 
occur in the future, are forward-looking statements within the 
meaning of the Reform Act. These forward-looking statements 


va 


va 


are based on currently available information, operating plans 
and projections about future events and trends. They inherently 
involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results 
to differ materially From those predicted in any such forward- 
looking statement. These risks and uncertainties include, but 
are not limited to, those described in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” on 
pages 10-29 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K and “Item 7. 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and Results of Operations — Our Business — Our Business Risks” 
of our Annual Report on Form 10-K included herewith. Investors 
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward- 
looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are 
made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward- 
looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future 
events or otherwise. 


Common Stock 
Information 


Stock Trading Symbol- PEP 


Stock Exchange Listings 

Since December 20, 2017, our common 
stock has traded on The Nasdaq Global 
Select Market. Before December 20, 2017, 
our common stock traded on The New York 
Stock Exchange. Our common stock is also 
listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange and 
SIX Swiss Exchange. 


Dividend Policy 

Dividends are usually declared in February, 
May, July and November and paid at the 
end of March, June and September and the 
beginning of January. On February 5, 2018, 
the Board of Directors of PepsiCo declared 
a quarterly dividend of $0.805 per share 
payable March 30, 2018 to shareholders 

of record on March 2, 2018. For the remain- 
der of 2018, the dividend record dates for 
these payments are expected to be June 1, 
September 7 and December 7, 2018, subject 
to approval of the Board of Directors. We 
have paid consecutive quarterly cash divi- 
dends since 1965. 


Annualized Cash Dividends Declared 
Per share (in $) 


7 ee 3.1675 


16 2.96 
15 2.7625 
14 2.5325 

13 2.24 


Year-End Market Price of Stock 
Based on calendar year-end (in $) 


125 


100 ee 


13 14 15 16 7 


The closing price for a share of PepsiCo 
common stock on The New York Stock 
Exchange and The Nasdaq Global 

Select Market was the price reported by 
Bloomberg for the years ended 2013-2016 
and 2017, respectively. Past performance 
is not necessarily indicative of future stock 
price performance. 


2017 PepsiCo Annual Report | 151 


Comparison of Cumulative Total Shareholder Return 


The graph below compares PepsiCo, Inc.’s cumulative five-year total shareholder 

return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index and the 
S&P Average of Industry Groups index.* The graph tracks the performance of a $100 
investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) 
from 12/31/2012 to 12/31/2017. 


in U.S. dollars e~ee PepsiCo, |!nc. eam S&P500 came S&P Avg. of Ind. Groups* 
20 Oe 
25) 
100 x , : 

2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 

12712 12/1392 / 1A 2S 12/11o 2/1117, 

Peo Le eee eee $100 $125 $146 $159 $171 $202 
S&P 500 $100 $1 32 $151 $153 $171 $208 
S&P Avg. of Industry Groups* $100 $126 $142 $162 $171 $187 


*The S&P Average of Industry Groups is derived by weighting the returns of two applicable S&P Industry Groups 
(Non-Alcoholic Beverages and Food) based on the relative contribution of PepsiCo’s sales in its beverage 
and food businesses. 


The returns on PepsiCo common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Average of Industry Groups are 
calculated through December 31, 2017. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future returns on 
investments in PepsiCo common stock. 


Shareholder Information 


Annual Meeting 

The Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the New Bern Riverfront Convention 
Center, 203 South Front Street, New Bern, North Carolina 28560, on Wednesday, 

May 2, 2018, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time. Proxies for the meeting will be solicited 
by an independent proxy solicitor. This Annual Report is not part of the proxy solicitation. 


Inquiries Regarding Your Stock Holdings 

Registered Shareholders (shares held by you in your name) should address communi- 
cations concerning transfers, statements, dividend payments, address changes, lost 
certificates and other administrative matters to: 


Computershare Inc. or 

462 South 4th Street, Suite 1600 Manager, Shareholder Relations 
Louisville, KY 40202 PepsiCo, Inc. 

Telephone: 800-226-0083 700 Anderson Hill Road 
201-680-6578 (outside the U.S.) Purchase, NY 10577 

Website: www.computershare.com/ Telephone: 914-253-3055 

investor E-mail: investor@pepsico.com 
Online inquiries: www-us.computer 

share.com/investor/contact 


In all correspondence or telephone inquiries, please mention PepsiCo, the name in which 
your shares are registered, your holder ID, your address and your telephone number. 


2017 PepsiCo Annual Report | 152 


SharePower Participants (associates 
with SharePower Options) should address 
all questions regarding your account, 
outstanding options or shares received 
through option exercises to: 


Merrill Lynch 

1400 Merrill Lynch Drive 

MSC NJ2-140-03-17 

Pennington, NJ 08534 
Telephone: 800-637-6713 

(U.S., Puerto Rico and Canada) 
609-818-8800 (all other locations) 


In all correspondence, please provide 
your account number (for U.S. citizens, 
this is your Social Security number), your 
address and your telephone number, and 
mention PepsiCo SharePower. For tele- 
phone inquiries, please have a copy of 
your most recent statement available. 


Associate Benefit Plan Participants 
PepsiCo 401(k) Plan 

The PepsiCo Savings & Retirement 
Center at Fidelity 

P.O. Box 770003 

Cincinnati, OH 45277-0065 

Telephone: 800-632-2014 

(Overseas: Dial your country’s AT&T 
Access Number + 800-632-2014. In the 
U.S., access numbers are available by 
calling 800-331-1140. From anywhere in 
the world, access numbers are available 
online at www.att.com/traveler). 
Website: www.netbenefits.com/pepsico 


PepsiCo Stock Purchase Program 
Fidelity Investments 

P.O. Box 770001 

Cincinnati, OH 45277-0002 

Telephone: 800-632-2014 

Website: www.netbenefits.com/pepsico 
Please have a copy of your most recent state- 
ment available when calling with inquiries. 


PEP 


Nasdaq Listed 


Corporate 
Information 


Corporate Headquarters 
PepsiCo, Inc. 

700 Anderson Hill Road 
Purchase, NY 10577 
Telephone: 914-253-2000 


PepsiCo Website 
www.pepsico.com 


Independent Auditors 
KPMG LLP 

345 Park Avenue 

New York, NY 10154-0102 
Telephone: 212-758-9700 


Direct Stock Purchase 

Interested investors can make their 
initial purchase directly through 
Computershare, transfer agent for 
PepsiCo and Administrator for the Plan. 
Please contact our transfer agent for 
more information: 


Computershare Inc. 

462 South 4th Street, Suite 1600 
Louisville, KY 40202 

Telephone: 800-226-0083 
201-680-6578 (outside the U.S.) 
Website: www.computershare.com/ 
investor 

Online inquiries: www-us.computer 
share.com/investor/contact 


Other services include dividend reinvest- 


ment, direct deposit of dividends, optional 


cash investments by electronic funds 
transfer or check drawn ona U.S. bank, 
sale of shares, online account access 
and electronic delivery of shareholder 
materials. 


Additional Information 

PepsiCo’s Annual Report contains many 
of the valuable trademarks owned and/ 
or used by PepsiCo and its subsidiaries 


and affiliates in the U.S. and internation- 
ally to distinguish products and services of 
outstanding quality. All other trademarks 


featured herein are the property of their 
respective owners. 


PepsiCo Values 

Our Commitment: To deliver SUSTAINED 
GROWTH through EMPOWERED 

PEOPLE acting with RESPONSIBILITY and 
building TRUST. 


Guiding Principles 

We must always strive to: Care for our 
customers, our consumers and the world 
we live in. Sell only products we can be 
proud of. Speak with truth and candor. 
Win with diversity and inclusion. Balance 
short term and long term. Respect others 
and succeed together. 


© 2018 PepsiCo, Inc. 


MIX 


Paper from 
responsible sources 
FSC 


wwwiscorg FS&C® CO20268 


Environmental Profile 

This Annual Report was printed with 
Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC®)- 
certified paper, the use of 100% certified 
renewable wind power resources and 
soy ink. PepsiCo continues to reduce 
the costs and environmental impact 

of annual report printing and mailing 
by utilizing a distribution model that 
drives increased online readership and 
fewer printed copies. You can learn 
more about our environmental efforts 
at www.pepsico.com. 


Photography by Addison, Laurie Spens, Steve Giralt and BNVS 


Design by Addison www.addison.com Printing by Sandy Alexander Inc 


PEPSi« 


— Fostifos «= Acuarnn & 


qeais anit 


Bris we rite via 


PepsiCo’s portfolio includes 22 brands that each generated 
$1 billion or more in estimated annual retail sales in 2017. 


2017 Diversity Statistics 


%Women % People of Color™ 


Board of Directors 23) 
Senior Executives 21 
Executives (U.S.) 34 
All Managers (U.S.) 35 
All Employees (U.S.) 19 


The data in this chart is as of December 31, 2017, and, other than the 
Board of Directors, this chart reflects full-time employees only. 
(a)U.S. only; primarily based on completed self-identification forms. 
(b) Composed of PepsiCo Executive Officers subject to Section 16 of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 


31 
29 
24 
29 
39 


Summary of Contributions (in millions) 


PepsiCo Foundation 
Corporate Contributions* 
Division Contributions 
Division Estimated In-Kind 
Total 


*Corporate Contributions include estimated in-kind 
donations of $0.4 million. 


igus} G Tropicana 5 


ae. 


-EST?1877-* 


Pepsi. 


e 


pepsi 


Naked 


2017 

$ 31.4 
Ti 
AZ 
BY 
$108.9 


2 PEPSICO 


