DOCUMENT RESUHE 



ED 337 649 



CE 059 308 



AUTHOR 
TITLE 



INSTITUTION 



PUB DATE 
NOTE 

PUB TVPE 



Nelson, Lucie, Ed. 

Building a Workforce for the South. Proceedings of 
the Regional Workplace Literacy Conference (Atlanta, 
Georgia, June 21-23' 1990). 

Eastern Kentucky Univ., Lexington.; Georgia State 
Univ., Atlanta.; National Univ. Continuing Education 
Association, Washington, DC.; Southern Governors' 
Association, Atlanta, GA. 
Jun 90 
72p. 

Collected Works - Conference Proceedings (021) 



EDRS PRICE 
DESCRIPTORS 



IDENTIFIERS 



MF01/PC03 Plus Postage. 

Adult Basic Education; * Adult Literacy; Basic Skills; 
Corporate Support; Curricu7.um Development; 
Educational Opportunities; Education Work 
Relationship; Government Role; Industrial Training; 
"Job Training; "Labor Force; Policy Formation; Skill 
Development; Unions 

United States (South); "Workplace Literacy 



ABSTRACT 

The focus of this conference workplace literacy in 
the South is the need for cooperation and collaboration eunong 
policy-makers, business and industry, labor, and education providers. 
The document contain.j nine presentations: "What Frito-Lay Has Done in 
Workplace Literacy" (Mossborg); "The Need for a Literate Workforce in 
the South" (Price); "Policy Recommendations for Workplace Literacy" 
(Fingeret); "The U.S. Dej -tment of Education's Workplace 
Progreun — Governmental Pe. jctives" (Brand) ; "Effective Employee 
Basic Skills Program Rolet for Labor and Business" (Jurmo, 
Sarmiento); "Recent Research of What Works and What Doesn't Work in 
the Workplace" (Mikulecky) ; "Developing Curriculum in the Workplace" 
(Valentine); "Training in Workplace Literacy" (©hilippi); and 
"Upgrading Academic Skills in the Workplace — A Success Story at Duke 
Power Company" (Fowler) . The conference agenda, a roster of 
participants, and regional conference tips are included. (NLA) 



* Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made 

* from the original document. 



The Regional Workplace 

Literacy 
Conference Proceedings 

June 21 -23,1990 




2 BEST COPY AVAiLASLE 



i= Conference Proceedings =j 

Proceedings Editor: Lucie Nelson 
Regional Conference Tips; Lu'^ie Nelson 
Proceedings Coordinator: Allison Willis 



January 1991 



These proceedings have been partially funded 
through conference registration fees. 



ERIC 



3 



Acknowledgments 



These proceedings from the Regional Workplace Literacy 
Conference have been summarized from presentor's notes, ar- 
ticles, and audio tapes of the addresses. Because they are compi- 
lations, the length of the written presentations do not represent 
the length of the spoken addresses, nor their significance to the 
issue. We take mil responsibihty for any errors in the transcrip- 
tion. While all major conference addresses are included in these 
proceedings, we were able to record only two of the four work- 
shops. 

I appreciate the encouragement and enthusiasm of those 
who assisted with the compilation of the proceedings. Allison 
Willis, Eastern Kentucky University, has served as chief coordina- 
tor for this project and deserves untold credit. 



Lucie Nelscn 



Table of Contents 



About the Conference 3 

Conference Agenda 5 

"What Frito-Lay Has Done in Workplace Literacy" 8 

"The Need for a Literate Workforce in the South" 14 

"Policy Recommendations for Workplace Literacy" 17 

"The U.S. Department of Education's Workplace 

Program: Governmental Perspectives" 24 

"Effective Employee Basic Skills Programs Roles for 

Labor and Business" 30 

"Recent Research of What Works and What Doesn't Work 

in the Workplace" .41 

"Developing Curriculum in the Workplace" 49 

"Training in Workplace Literacy" 51 

"Upgrading Academic Skills in the Workplace — 

A Success Story at Duke Power Company" 53 

Roster of Participants i 

Regional Conference Tips v 



ERIC 



5 



About tii& CTonferencfe 



The idea for a conference dedicated solely to workplace 
literacy evolved during the Atlanta AAACE-COABE Confer- 
ence in April,1989. Program directors from the first round of 
funding in the U.S. Department of Education's Workplace Lit- 
eracy Partnership grants met to discuss progress acd ex- 
pressed a sense of regional needs for thope living in the South- 
east The proposed conference was designated a regional 
gathering, yet open to anyone who wished to attei 1. 

Having initiated projects and worked through obstacles 
and uncertainties, the (iurectors felt a strong need for support 
and additional information sharing. With the encouragement 
of the U.S. Department of Education and especially Ron 
Pugsley, a planning committee was formed and Atlanta was 
chosen as the site. 

Eastern Kentucky University, with its strong conference 
planning division, and Georgia State University, located in 
Atlanta, agreed to assume the leadership roles for the confer- 
ence. The conference provided partial funding for an assis- 
tantship at Georgia State to acquire added assistance by a 
graduate student. Funding for the conference was provided 
solely through registration and exhibitor fees. 

The focus of the conference, as stated in the brochure, 
was the need for cooperation and collaboration among policy 
makers, business and industry, labor, and educational provid- 
ers. It thus afforded an opportunity for discussion and the 
sharing of ideas and opnortimities by all of the players in- 
volved in workplace Uteracy. Participation by business and 
government was much less than that of the educational pro- 
viders. This seems often to be the case and must be addressed 
in future conferences. The development of mailing lists pri- 
marily by those in adult education settings Umited the number 
of companies contacted. Thus, while conference attendance 
was a fair illustration of those who were feeling the greatest 
need for information and support, mailing list development 
and conference participation by industry must be improved in 
future conferences of this nature. 

A format which devoted a large portion of its time to 
general sessions was determined to be the best tool for provid- 
ing the development of a sense of community and common 
purpose. Key experts would make presentations regarding 
their own experiences in this new field. 



ERIC 



A unique feature of the conference was the fact that the 
coordination of the conference centered on a coordinator in each 
of the southeastern states. As a rule this was a project director 
but in some cases another key person was selected to serve. 
These coordinators made the conference happen because they 
knew who the key players were in their states and how to en- 
courage state representation in Atlanta. Each state was asked 
to participate in some specific way. 

The conference further offered the project directors and 
other outstanding projects an opportunity to display some of 
their work through poster sessions and round-table displays and 
discussion. An open exchange of experiences and ideas was con- 
sidered the most important element of the conference. 

Building a Workforce for the South was a success. 
The number of attendees far exceeded expectations. The follow- 
up requests for information and another conference indicated a 
continuing desire to learn effective wavs in which to meet the 
ever increasing demand for the teaching and learning of basic 
workforce skills. The conference slated for 1991 m\\ include a 
more detailed worl'.shop/short course agenda to provide effective 
strategies ard techniques supported by field trips to successlul 
programs. The following is a listing of the people who partici- 
pated ii: various capacities: 



State Coordinators 

Alabama 

Jo Smith 
Florida 

Ron Froman 

Tony Lagos 
Georgia 

Sue Stephens Fleuren 

Kentucky 

Ruth Ann Phillips 
Louisiana 

Gary Patureau 
Mississippi 

Bob Richardson 



North Carolina 

Susie Lambert 
South Carolina 

Jimmy Smith 

David Stout 
Tennessee 

Wes Hasden 

K Owen McCullough 
Virginia 

Elaine Squeri 
West Virginia 

Carol Reuther 



7 



Co-Sponsors 



National University Continuing Education Association 
Eastern Kentucky University 
Georgia State University 
Southern Governor's Association 

Planning Committee 

Nancy Chase 
Judy Cheatham 
Scott Defife 
Sue Stephens Fie. 
Annette Morgan 

Conference Program 



Thursday, June 23, 1990 

2:00 P.M. Registration and Exhibits 

7:30 P.M. Welcome 

Jean Young, First Lady of Atlanta 

8:00 P.M. General Session 

Presiding: Jean Devard Kemp 
Office of Adult Literacy, Georgia 

•W/uit Frito-Lay Has Done in Workplace Literacy" 
Kelly Mossberg, Frito-Lay 

9:00 RM. State Display Tables 

Special Conference Kick-Off Drawing 

Friday, June 22, 1990 

8:00 A.M. Continental Breakfast 

8:30 A.M. Announcement 

Presiding: James C. Young 
Georgia State University, Atlanta 

Eldridge McMillian, Southern Growth Policy Board 



8 



Lucie Nelson 
Joanne Nurss 
Bob Richardson 
n Pam Ritchie 

Elaine Squeri 



9:00 A.M, Opening Address 



Presiding: Susie Lambert 

Rowan-Cabarrus Community College, North Carolina 

TAe Need for a Literate Workforce in the South" 
Honorable David Price, U,S, Congressman from 
North Carolina 

10:00 A.M. Concurrent Sessions 

A. Panel Presentation 

""Federally funded Projects: What We've 

Learned" 
Ron Pugsley 
Nancy Brooks 
Sarah Newcomb 

B. Poster Sessions 

^'Successful Workplace Projects'* 

11:30 A.iVI. General Session 

Presiding: Ruth Ann Phillips 
Department of Education, Kentucky 

"Policy Recommendations for Workplace Literacy" 
Dr Hanna Arlene Fingeret, North Carolina Center 
for Literacy Development 

12:30 P-M, Lunch on Your Own 

1:30 PM, Exhibits 

2:00 PM. General Session 

Presiding: Scott Defife 
Southern Governor's Association 

T/u? LT.iS, Department of Education's Workplace Program: 

Governmental Perspectives" 

Betsy Brand, U.S. Department of Education 

3:00 PM, Panel Presentation 



Presiding: Judy Cheatham 
Greensboro College, North Care Una 

"Effective Employee Basic Skills Programs Roles for 
Labor and Business" 

Paul Jurmo, Business Council for Effective Literacy 
Anthony Sarmiento, Department of Education for AFL-CIO 



4:30 P.M. Exhibits 

5:30 P.M« Light Buffet and Reception 

Informal Discussion and Information Sharing 



Saturday, June 23, 1990 

8:00 Continental Breakfast 

9:00 AM. General Session 

Presiding: Betty Wong 

Mississippi State Department of Education, Mississippi 

"Recent Research of What Works and What Doesn't Work 
in the Workplace'' 

Dr, Larry Mickulecky, Indiana University 
10:00 A.M. Concurrent Sessions 

A. ^'Developing Curriculum in the Workplace'' 
Dr. Tom Valentine 

B. "Getting Started on a Workplace Literacy Program'' 
MatUe Eley 

C. "Managing Workplace Literacy Programs" 
Dr. Mikel Richardson 

D. "Training in Workplace Literacy" 
Jorie Philippi 

11:15 A.M. Final Exhibitor Drawing 

11:45 A.M. Closing Luncheon 

Presiding: Lucie Nelson 

Eastern Kentucky University, Kentucky 

David Stout 

Department of Adult Educati in, South Carolina 

"Upgrading Academic Skills in the Workplace— A Success 
Story at Duke Power Company" 
Fay Fowler, Duke Power Company 

Final Door F'rize Drawings 



10 



Thursday, June 21, 1990 
8:00 PJM. General Session 

Kelly Mossberg - **What Frito-Lay has Done in 
Workplace Literacy" 



Introduction 

Kelly Mossberg currently, as Area Employee Relations 
Manager for Frito-Lay South, is responsible for Southeastern 
Operations Human Resources for approximately 5,000 em- 
ployees in sales and manufacturing. He has five years with 
Frito-Lay in both field and headquarter assignments. He has 
prior experience with Union Camp Corporation as Corporate 
Indxistrial Relations Manager at their New York City head- 
quarters. A graduate of Auburn University, he is originally 
from Atlanta, Georgia. 

Frito-Lay Orlando, in partnership with the Orange 
County School System, offered its first employee basic skills 
training course in the Summer of 1988. Fimded in part by a 
Workplace Literacy Partnership grant form the U.S. Depart- 
ment of Education, this program has significantly enhanced 
the skills of aroimd 25% of the plant's employees. Kelly dis- 
cussed the Frito-Lay Orlando employee basic skills program 
and why he believes it is a success. 

A Workplace Literacy Partnership 

If we could change the name of the conference from 
"Building a Workforce for the South" to "Empowering a 
Workforce for the South", we would get some insight into 
Frito-Lay's philosophy toward workplace literacy. We 
strongly believe that this type of program does exactly that— 
empowers our employees to take more ownership in the busi- 
ness. Our program at Frito-Lay Orlando can best be de- 
scribed as a joint partnership between industry and educa- 
tion. Webster defines a partnership as an association be- 
tween two or more partners in a business enterprise to 
achieve a common goal. In the truest sense of the word, Frito- 
Lay Orlando and the Orangt; County Public School system 



u 



have joined together to form a partnership which has brought 
about the activity I am talking about tonight. 

Helping Each Other Grow 

The mission of the Orlando manufacturing facility "to 
satisfy our customers with the highest quality snack foods at 
the most competitive cost by achieving zero waste and helping 
each other grow," is not unique to Orlando. AU 38 Frito-Lay 
manufacturing plants share the same mission. However, 
there is something unique in the way they are attempting to 
fill one aspect of that mission— helping each other grow. 
Driven by a vision of what the plant will be in the future, 
Orlando is pioneering an exciting new program to enl ;»nce the 
employee's basic skills in such areas as reading, language and 
math. This plant, located in one of the fastest growing areas 
of the United States was built in 1965 and currently employs 
around 300, and has traditionally had a very active workforce. 

Within Frito-Lay there are business planning groups, 
that is periodic meetings of local management personnel from 
various departments within the business. Their purpose is to 
examine their collective "businesses" and look for wa>s they 
can improve quality, service and cost performance. During 
one of its meetings in 1987, the Orlando group recognized that 
major changes were going on in their business faster than the 
pace in which their employees basic skills and training were 
able to keep up. Specifically, the changes included the intro- 
duction of new computer based equipment as well as in- 
creased emphasis on the part of the company to drive decision 
making down to the lowest levels of the organization. Mem- 
bers of the business planning group asked themselves if em- 
ployees' skills had kept up with these changes, and realized 
that the skills required to produce the product 25 years ago 
were not the same as those required today. Employees in 
1965 wer ^ hired to operate one piece of equipment or to per- 
form one oask. Now employees are as'ied to operate not only 
more sophisticated equipment, but to take an active role in 
problem solving on a daily basis and to generate ideas to 
improve the plant's overall performance. 

Frito-Lay, like many U.S. corporations, is facing foreign 
competition on the one hand, and the need to build up employ- 
ees' basic skills on the other hand. Since it is our philosophy 
that our employees have made us the number one snack food 



ERIC 



12 



company in the world, we could not follow the lead of compa- 
nies who choose to replace old employees with employees who 
possess the required skills. Our employees* experience and 
loyalty is invaluable to our success and for this reason Frito- 
Lay Orlando chose to empower their employees through the 
enhancement of their basic skills. A partnership was formed 
with the Orange County School system to develop a program 
that would do exactly that. 

Orange County invested teachers, materials and course 
curriculum design, while Frito-Lay Orlando invested fifty 
thoixsand dollars to establish a training center on the plant 
site and to pay employees up to two hours of time "on the 
dock" while they attended instruction. Extensive planning 
went into the development of curriculum and the following 
questions were used to give planners direction: 

1. How will we assess learning and progress? 

2. What skills wiU be needed to form a baseline 
level? 

3. What would a continuum look like? 

4. Should course content be related and focused on 
learning to learn? 

As part of the planning process, managers from Frito-Lay 
visited another company's facility to observe a successful 
workplace literacy program. They also visited a newer Frito- 
Lay facility in Georgia to examine what a state of the art 
facility would look like. The point of these visits was to glean 
some information from their experience and to determine a 
potential baseline skill level. 

Planners wanted to create a positive non-threatening 
environment for employees; thus they knew strict confidence 
of employee information and asse-jsment of skill levels must 
be maintained. Teacher selection was very important to es- 
tablish trust between the program and employees. Curricu- 
lum, was designed to feature general usefulness while adher- 
ing to workplace literacy principles. 

Phase one was r course termed reading strategies. The 
design of the course was based on the **think ahead, think 

1 while readmg and think back" strategy and used sections out 
of the plant's operation manuals, the company's corporate 

I benefits summary book and the company's newsletter for 
materials. 



13 



Phase two involved defining actual reading skills of 
employees. The entire plant was asked to complete a volun- 
tary basic reading skills assessment exercise. Seventy percent 
of the employees completed the assessment. Each employee 
responding received a confidential lei ter explaining the exer- 
cise and advising them if they would benefit firom the program 
to be offered. 

During phase three classes began with those who chose 
to participate. Students attended two hour classes twice per 
week during their normally scheduled shift. The initial course 
ofifered lasted nine weeiis and contained 24 students working 
with an instructor on the plant site. Post evaluations were 
completed by students and their immediate supervisors to 
determine if the program was a success. Feedback from those 
evaluations showed a unanimous yes. 

Phase four introduced computers to assist in the in- 
struction in enghsh, reading, and math. Each student could 
work individually, at their own speed and at their own level. 
Computers were also made available during off shift times so 
employees could work on their own time. 

Empowering a Workforce for the South 

There is no question. The program has been a success 
lor Frito-Lay and for our employees. Since its beginning 65 
employees have enrolled and completed classes (representing 
around 25% of the total workforce at Frito-Lay Orlando) the 
rate of re-enrollment in math is over 75%. Each student 
completing the course receives formal recognition in a formal 
ceremony conducted by the plant manager. The curriculum 
has been expanded to five offerings and a sixth course is being 
planned. Individufcl txrtoring courses are also offered. Post 
testing has indicated that the basic skills levels of employees 
enrolled in courses have improved significantly. Participation 
by job class almost mirrors overall plant population distribu- 
tion. But the most important indicator of success has been 
from employees (see student's comments below). 

The outlook for the workplace Hteracy program at Frito- 
Lay is bright. Course offerings will be further expanded to 
include introductory computer tutorials, stress management 
and efi active presentation skills. Also, Frito-Lay is looking 



14 



into expanding the program to other Frito-Lay manufactur- 
ing plants and sales divisions in the future. 

What has made our program successful? First, the 
program is a joint partnership between the company, the 
local facility management, local educational resources and 
employees. Second, local management provides active lead- 
ership during planning and execution stages of the program. 
Support is evident not only at the top of the organization but 
all the way down to the first line supervisory level. This is 
critical if a program is to be successful. Third, local educa- 
tors are flexible and cooperative in their approach to develop- 
ing a program which meets the needs of not only the business 
but the employees themselves. Fourth, the curriculum is job 
specific and relevant to the workplace. And finally, the trust 
and credibility of the program was established early on with 
all involved in planning and execution phases. Employees 
must feel that the overall mission of the program is to en- 
hance their basic skills to the betterment of not only them- 
selves but to the company. 

Conclusion 

As companies move toward the year 2000 we need to 
work smarter to stay on top. Competing companies have the 
same access to raw materials and technology tl^t we do. 
What will keep us ahead of the competition is what we do 
with th'>se materials and technology. Our employees are our 
strategic advantage. Basic skills programs will be our lever- 
age for our employees' experience and loyalty so that we can 
work toward record growth and profits in the future while at 
the same time provide our employees with the opportunity to 
improve the skills they will use in virtually every aspect of 
their lives. 



15 



Student's Comments 



**Por me this course is a dream come true. I am 58 years old 
and I have eight grandchildren, and I have learned that you 
are never too old to leam. My family seems proud of what I 
am doing. My husband is helping me at home and I am 
practicing reading with my grandchildren. I am thankful for 
this opportunity, sometimes I wish I could attend classes all 
day." 

M. Addcock — 24 years with Frito-Lay Orlando 

"Since I work in quality assurance and am constantly filling 
out reports, I was surprised to leam that they thought I 
could benefit from a reading skills class, I thought I could 
read pretty well, but I began to notice a change afl;^r my 
second class. I never realized how much I was missing when 
I tried to read something. Now I know I needed help." 

A. Elise — 19 years with Frito-Lay Orlando 

Times are changing. Several of the employees got the 
chance to go to Frito-Lay's new plant in Perry, Georgia and 
we saw how different that plant is. Workers seemed to be 
much better educated and the equipment is much more 
difficult to operate. That equipment is going to find its way 
to Orlando and when it gets here, I want to be able to master 
it. I just hope more of our employees will sign up for the 
program." 

C. Green — 17 years with Frito-Lay Orlando 



If." 



Fridfiy, June 22, 1990 

9:00 AJM. General Session 

Hon. David E. Price, U.S. Congressman from 
North Carolina - **The Need for a Literate 
Workforce in the South" 



Introduction 

David E. Price has represented the State of North 
Carolina in the U.S. House of Representatives since 1987. 
He currently serves on the Banking, Finance, and Urban 
Affairs Committee and the Science, Space, and Technology 
Committee. While his involvement has been impressive in 
many areas, his experience with the Sunbelt Institute stud- 
ies of illiteracy and the education requirements of the 
workplace of tomorrow made him \iniquely qualified to speak 
about the need for a literate workforce in the South. 

Representative Price's presentation was originally 
scheduled to be the Opening Address on Thursday, June 21. 
However, due to an important vote in Congress (flag dese- 
cration amendment), he arrived instead on Friday, Jtine 22 
to address the morning General Session and spend valuable 
time with conference participants before and after his pres- 
entation. 

The Need for a Literate Workforce in the South 

There is no question that the education and the skill 
levels of the workforce are critical components of our nation's 
economy. National education, business and government 
leaders agree that our ability to compete in today's global 
economy depends on a highly educated workforce. Most of 
the new jobs being created across the nation demand higher 
levels of scientific, mathematic and technical skill than ever 
before. Today, people with only a high school diploma qualify 
for a mere 15 percent of new jobs, compared with 40 percent 
two decades ago. 



17 



Sunbelt Study 



The cyde of under-education and consequent under-employ- 
ment in the South was documented in a study conducted at the 
request of the Congressional Sunbelt Caucus. This study focused 
on workforce literacy in the South and its impact on the Southern 
economic challenge of the 1990's. The Sunbelt study confirmed the 
South's continuing education deficit, but argued that the region's 
literacy problem must increasingly be viewed in terms of workforce 
skills. For most businesses, the deficit lies not so much with grade 
school dropouts who never learned to read, write, add or subtract, 
but with high school dropouts with limited Uteracy skills. Because 
the diversification and automation of the economy require a higher 
skilled workforce, this literacy problem is fully as serious as the 
traditional literacy problem. 

Although increasing attention is being paid to the challenge, 
the Sunbelt study documented the inadequacy of the state and 
federal response, with fragmented public and private programs 
serving too few people. Thus, this study was more than an analy- 
sis of the workplace literacy crisis, it was also a plan of action, 
recommending effective approaches to closing the literacy gap 
threatening the Southern economy. 

Key recommendations included: 

1. giving the federal government a catalytic role in 
developing higher quality and better funded adult 
education programs focusing on the workforce; 

2. developing and disseminating model programs, curric- 
ula, and teaching technologies; 

3. strengthening the relationship between adult basic 
education and the world of work and giving job train- 
ing programs a stronger basic education component; 
and 

4. encouraging private sector support and enhanced 
public-private cooperation in the implementation of 
programs. 

Literacy Summit 

In April 1989 congressional, education, labor and literacy 
leaders from across the south were brought together for interactive 



18 



round table discussions on legislative initiatives to resolve the 
workplace literacy crisis. During this two day Workplace 
Literacy Legislative Summit participants hammered out a 
blueprint for future legislative action. On the Vasis of this, 
Congress is developing a coordinated, targeted approach to 
literacy that will benefit the South and the nation. 

Some of the magor workplace literacy legislation per- 
tains to vocational education, science and technological liter- 
acy, and basic Hteracy. While legislators have not reached a 
consensus about all the specifics of literacy legislation, they 
have reached agreement about the importance of an educated 
workforce. Literacy is not a partisan issue, nor is it a state 
issue. The private as well as the public sector must be part of 
the solution. Workforce literacy has an enormous impact on 
the entire nation; it impacts business, education, the media, 
and all levels of government; thus all must share the responsi- 
bility for seeing that solutions are sought. 

Conclusion 

Thus, we must build a partnership to solve the crisis. 
Together, we can expand the notion of literacy beyond the 
three R's to match the realities of what it will take to claim a 
job in the ofiices and factories of tomorrow. Together, we can 
maintain and improve the South's economy and our nation's 
position in the global economy as a result. We cannot afford to 
do otherwise. 



1!) 



Friday, June 22, 1990 

11:30 AJVI. General Session 

Dr. Hanna Arlene Fingeret - "Policy 
Recommendations for Workplace Literacy" 



Introduction 

Hanna Arlene Fingeret has been working in literacy 
education since 1969. She spent ten years in the Boston area 
as a literacy tutor and teacher, program director, teacher 
trainer and consultant. Her research includes field studies on 
how non-literate adults manage their lives and a statewide 
evaluation of ABE in North Carolina. She has done extensive 
work in the field of participatory literacy education and pres- 
ently serves as Director of Literacy South at North Carolina 
State University. 

Dr. Fingeret's presentation focused on the implications 
recent research in workplace literacy education has for policy 
and practice . She attempted to place the federal role in legis- 
lation in a broader context, and to look at workplace literacy 
not only in terms of "what the mandate for workplace literacy 
legislation is", but more broadly— looking at what we need to 
be thinking about conceptually when we think about 
workplace literacy programs. 

The Purpose ofWorkplace Literacy Education 

I have had the privilege of being able to sper'^ time 
with some workers who are in some of the workpl 'e literacy 
programs. These workers, these students, these 1 ners 
understand that through the work they do, they quite literally 
run the industries they work for. Because of them, the lights 
come on, the heat works, the trash gets emptied, but no mat- 
ter how good their work, many of them feel locked into place. 
They feel that they are victims of language, culture, race, 
gender, and class discrimination. Learning to read can en- 
hance their lives, but does not necessarily lead to new jobs or 
opportunities. Literacy is a tool for fireedom, but literacy will 
not set them free. 



20 



We usually define workplace literacy in terms of the 
demands of the workplace. But mary of these learners are 
literate, even eloquent about their v/orkplaces. They have 
another kind of workplace literacy', they can read the world of 
their workplace with quite accurate literal comprehension. 
They understand about institutional racism even though they 
cannot spell it. 

Education in the United States has traditionally been 
viewed as a means of getting ahead and opening new doors. 
Literacy has been portrayed as a key to social mobility, get- 
ting a better job and having a higher standard of living. The 
present attention to workplace literacy is a little bit different. 
We hear more talk now about literacy being a way of keeping 
your present job and protecting yourself from obsolescence. A 
way of continuing your present employment and supporting 
America's competitiveness in the global marketplace. This is 
literacy as much for protecting the present as it is doing some- 
thing new about the future. 

A basic question emerges. What is the purpose and 
tmderlying rational for workplace Uteracy education? With- 
out clarity about the fundamental purpose of such programs, 
we cannot talk about policy. A piece of the purpose has to do 
with increased productivity; but what do we mean when we 
say we want an expanding economy as one of the major out- 
comes of workplace literacy? 

When we think about purposes for workplace literacy 
programs, we know literacy historically has been a tool for 
gaining access to power. Instrumental power (can do new 
things), personal power (feel more capable of doing new 
things), and poUtical power (those who have been disenfran- 
chised can begin to have a new voice as citizens). Recent 
research looking at both the workplace of the future and in 
some cases the workplace of the present, asserts that what we 
need are literate workers who are able to think critically, 
learn new jobs quickly and independently, and who can work 
easily as members of teams. In order for those things to 
happen a sophisticated level of literacy skill and personal 
development is required. At the same time we also see pres- 
sure in many places for narrow technical workplace education 
programs that will train workers in limited, job related skills, 
but stop short of true literacy development which has to do 
with the ability to be continually learning. This is a result of 



a number of factors. Some employers do not see a need for 
sophisticated literacy skill development; others do not feel it is 
their responsibility. In some cases employers feel threatened 
by the potential consequences of broader literacy skills. They 
are concerned that workers involved in such programs will 
begin demanding better working conditions, more pay or will 
simply leave for more lucrative jobs where they will be treated 
in a way that will make them feel better. 

In addition to goals that have to do with worker's skill 
development, whether broadly or narrowly defined, are goals 
that have to do with economic development A more literate 
workforce will ideally mean the end of economic problems for 
the United States that have to do with international competi- 
tiveness, as well as those that have to do with local fiscal 
needs. However, we know the problems we are facing today 
are not simply problems that have to do with literacy but are 
instead issues that have to do with modernization, capitaliza- 
tion, debt reduction, monetary policy, as well as issues of 
social justice and equity. These larger issues raise questions 
about the relationship between workplace literacy and com- 
munity development. Adults need the literacy skills that will 
support their involvement in economic development, develop- 
ing their own businesses, and in participating in local decision 
making in an informed manner. Workplace literacy has to be 
understood as only one component of larger efforts for 
workforce literacy development and only one component of 
adult education. Personal, emotional, social, and ctdtural de- 
velopment has to be understood as valid, important literacy 
goals in addition to economic and workforce development. It 
is only when we pull all these factors together that we can see 
the kind of community economic development that is going to 
be necessary to contribute to the larger issues around eco- 
nomic development in our country. 

Include Attention to Lowest Skill Levels 

In the long run, economic development is served by the 
development of our hearts and souls, as well as our intellects 
and our skills. We have talked a long time as if there is some 
magical point when individuals transform from being illiter- 
ate to literate. We are seeing now that there is no such thing 
as that magical point. The Young Adult Literacy Study has 
had a lot to do with helping us think in terms of literacy 
profiles rather than a cut point between literate and illiterate. 



ERIC 



22 



This re-conceptuali2ation from a dichotomous view to a con- 
tinuous view of literacy is a cornerstone for thinking broadly 
abouk* workplace and workforce literacy development. 

While thinking of literacy skill development in terms of 
a continuum provides a truer picture of the continuing liter- 
acy each of us find ourselves in throughout our lives, this 
continuum view also legitimizes using literacy resources to 
work with adults whose skills may already be fairly sophisti- 
cated. Employers fear that it will cost too much to work with 
employees who have the lowest level skills. This kind of 
argument dehumanizes people by treating them as replace- 
able parts in the production process, and ignores the larger 
effects of literacy educaiiion. Working with individuals whose 
skills are already at a sophisticated level is a short term view, 
but one we are confronted with often. Policy has to include 
attention to adults with the lowest level of skills and to place 
that in the conte^^t of this continuum view of literacy and 
literacy development. 

A final set of goals for workplace literacy has to do 
with personal development... the growth and learning of hu- 
man beings who also happen to be workers, family members, 
and community leaders. Workplace literacy education pro- 
grams provide access to education for a whole group of people 
who might otherwise not have the opportimity to continue 
their skill development. It is important that, since these 
programs are offered on the worksite, people are able to have 
access to these programs who otherwise would not have had 
access to them. Although the programs are on site, we are 
working with whole human beings, and we need to be con- 
cerned about the broader goals of human development. Thus, 
workplace literacy programs need curricular content that will 
respect the experience and the aspirations of the workers who 
are involved in programs. 

Address a Broad Set of Issues 

It is clear that if workplace literacy programs are to 
support an expanding economy and a participatory, demo- 
cratic society then they cannot be narrowly job skills oriented. 
This is not to say that I am not a supporter of functional 
context curriculum, but the issue has to do with whose context 
and which contexts. Workplace Hteracy for the purposes of 



supporting an expanding economy and a democratic society 
has to mean the ability to apply the technical reading and 
writing skills in the context of lives, cultures, and linguistic 
background J as well as the context of work environments. 
Workplace literacy policy must reflect our knowledge that 
literacy education addresses just one aspect of the conditions 
that a£fect our economy today. Policy for a democratic society, 
as well as a healthy economy must address the broad set of 
issues including discrimination and structural inequality. 
The dignity of workers, as well as their skills, needs to be at 
the heart of workplace literacy programs if they are to serve 
these broader economic and social development goals over the 
long term. 

Enhanced Sense of Value 

A positive workplace environment, the kind of 
workplace environment that research right now is talking to 
us about ^nd saying that we need, one in which workers are 
able to be continuing learners, are able to learn new jobs, and 
to work together flexibly in teams— this is a workplace envi- 
ronment that depends upon employees who have a strong 
sense of their own value (the value of the knowledge, skills, 
background and the culture of the language that they bring 
to their jobs and to the workplace). Workplace education 
policy must support the development of workers' enhanced 
sense of their own value. This is facilitated by bringing work- 
ers into the policy development process, as well as the pro- 
gram development process from the very beginning. 

Many of us were taught that first you learn to read and 
then you read to learn. We now understand that this kind of 
artificial separation of content and skills does not hold up. 
We know that literacy is fundamentally about reading. As we 
read the world, the way we read text is changed, and our 
interaction with text has something to do with our interaction 
with the world. Language experience and culture shape the 
meanings we attach to experience and to text. Workplace 
literacy must support the integration of skills instruction with 
content that is meariingful to students. Recognizing that this 
content may indeed have to do with people's jobs, but it also 
may have to do wivh the rest of their lives and their back- 
grounds, their roles in their families, communities, churches, 
or their desire for leisure reading. 



24 



Meaningful to Students 

There are three corollaries to this point. First, this 
coDtent cannot be known without workers input in curriculum 
decisions. No matter how well meaning, educators and em- 
ployers simply cannot speak for others. Employees must be 
involved in instructional and programatic decisions. There- 
fore, what follows is that evaluation of workplace literacy 
programs must include attention to workers learning goals, as 
well as to the employer's interests. In addition, in order for 
these things to happen training has to provided for Uteracy 
educators to whom this is a relatively new way of doing busi- 
ness. Literacy programs traditionally have not been known 
for relevant content and literacy educators have not had much 
training in how to create instructional materials with their 
students. PoUcy has to support the provision of additional 
training to literacy educators. 

Flexible Developing Programs 

There are as many models for Uteracy programs as 
there are programs. This kind of pluralism is important. It is 
important that companies remain flexible in their develop- 
ment of workplace literacy programs, and remain vrilling to 
tailor their efforts to the needs of the situation and to their 
employees* characteristics. This may mean adding transpor- 
tation, childcare, involving other family members, or provid- 
ing individual tutoring as well as small classes. It is impor- 
tant that programs are monitored to insure that employees 
are provided with the greatest possible opportunity to partici- 
pate. Policies for workplace Uteracy must aUow for flexible 
developing programs that reflect the continuing growth of 
employers and workers. 

Summary 

In summary, I recommend that workplace literacy 
poUcy address the broad 4 et of issues that includes discrimi- 
nation and structural inet uaUty. That it support workers' 
enhanced sense of their ovni value. That it include attention 
to adults with the lowest level skills. That it support the 
integration of skills instruction with content that is meaning- 
ful to students. That it involve v )rkers in the process of 
policy development and in instructional and programatic 



25 



decisions. That it ii?.clude evaluation that attends to the 
workers' learning f,oals as well as to the employers' interests. 
That it support th i provision of additional training for literacy 
educators. That it allow for flexible developing programs that 
reflect the continiial learning and growing of both employers 
and their workers. And that it serve personal, emotional, 
social and cultural development, as well as economic and 
workforce development. 

Conclusion 

Workforce and workplace literacy programs are vitally 
important. The involvement, participation and support of the 
private sector is crucial for all of us. It is important not to 
lose site of the fact that our larger goal is a better world for all 
of us to live in. Workplace Uteracy policy must support coop- 
erative working relationships among employers, imions, 
educators and workers. It must be a wedge into the social and 
economic inequalities, that plague our world. It must support 
the innate dignity of every himian being. Workplace literacy 
has to do with reading the world that is the workplace, deal- 
ing with text is simply one element of literacy in the 
workplace. Because it is easy to get lost in conversations 
about the economy, we must keep in mind that we are talking 
about the lives of real people...employers, workers, teachers, 
and learners. 



Friday, June 22, 1990 

2:00 P.M. General Session 

Betsy Brand - "The U.S. Department of 
Education's Workplace Program: 
Governmental Perspectives'* 



Introduction 

Betsy Brand is the Assistant Secretary for the Office of 
Vocational and Adult Education in Washington, D.C. She has 
worked extensively with various U.S. Congressional Commit- 
tees in the areas of labor and human resources since 1981. 
She is skilled in developing, drafting and handling legislation. 
Her presentation attempts to summarize her breadth of expe- 
rience and the governmental perspective on workplace liter- 
acy. 

A Better Educated Workforce 

I have felt since coming to the Department of Education 
that we do not spend enough time and effort focusing on 
education for work. For the most part, we have had our fed- 
eral poHcies dictated by individuals in the academic sector. 
We need to recognize that there are a large number of chil- 
dren who will never go into an academic or baccalaureate 
degree program, yet they need additional training. Thus far, 
we have not recognized this with our federal education poli- 
cies. 

Today 50-60% of our children do go on for a baccalaure- 
ate degree, but only about 25% of that number stay and re- 
ceive a four year degree. What happens to the rest? And 
what happens to those who drop out of high school and never 
go to college at all? Some will find a job, but our policies and 
our programs do not recognize these workbound youth — the 
people who some are calling the forgotten half. It is time for 
us to design some programs and policies that focus on the 
work bound youth, programs that result in some positive 
experiences for them. This is a far reaching broad problem 
that needs to be dealt with system wide. 



27 



There have been a lot of reports calling for a restructur- 
ing of our educational system. I have been pleased by thes^ 
reports, particularly when the business sector has become 
involved. Since the early 1980's business has been "crying 
out" about the need for our schools to educate people who can 
be productive employees. Yet, we have not responded. Over 
the past 12 months the business community has, in a variety 
of ways, stood up and said to the educational system, **The 
product that you are sending us is a poor product, we can't use 
it." This is a dramatic message, it is a strong message. I 
think it is a good message, one that schools and people in- 
volved in education are finally beginning to listen to and 
respond to. We need to know v/hat business wants that final 
product to look like. 

An interesting report released this past Tuesday by the 
Commission on the Skills of the American Workforce is titled 
"America's Choice: High Skills or Low Wages". The report is 
truly a perspective from tht business sector on what we are 
facing if we don't do something to change the product that our 
education system is producing. We have an opportunity to 
prepare students for high skill jobs a high standard of living 
and a strong economy. Or we could go about business as 
usual and allow oar citizens to participate in low skill jobs 
where they will have a low standard 0/ living and obvfously be 
in a poor position to compete in the global economy. This 
exciting report raises issues that will be very controversial, 
but that need to be discussed. 

In the South you have been fortunate that the educa- 
tion system has been at the lower end of the scale nationwide. 
The reason you are fortunate is that this has really forced you 
to examine what has gone on, and what education means in 
terms of your economy. I think what the leadership in the 
South has recognized is that educatiop is tied directly to 
economic development and thus tied to the health of the 
economy in the states in the South. The connection between 
education and work needs to be made and has been made 
quickly in the South. Because this connection has been made, 
we are seeing a lot more activity with regard to workplace 
literacy and educating the workforce. I believe the South is 
leading the nation in terms of workplace literacy programs. 
Of the funds that we have provided under the State Adult 
Education Grants, 70% goes to workplace literacy programs. 
There is a strong focus on workplace literacy in the South, 



28 



and this is because your industries and business leaders 
have recognized that you cannot have a vibrant economy 
without a well trained workforce. The South has 97% more 
workplace literacy programs than the West, 86% more than 
the North East, and 73% more than tuc Midwejt. These are 
startling figures, but those areas of the country have tended 
to have more robust economies and have not yet made the 
connection. 

Workplace Literacy 

There are many reasons to focus on workplace liter- 
acy. We have technological changes facing us that require 
new skills of our workers. In the workplace, however, we 
have a problem Jiot only in the area of technology, but also 
in the area of basic skills. One of every eight workers today 
reads at the fourth gr^de level or lower, and on? of every 
five, or 24 million workers, reads at the eighth grade level or 
lower. This does not even take into accourit immigrants and 
t^Ae special needs that they have. You are all familiar with 
Workforce 2000 and the demographics. Tm not telling you 
anything new, most of you deal with th ise problems on a 
daily basis. 

We have a tremendous amoimt of work to do in the 
area of workplace litei-acy. We have a tremendous amount of 
work to do in our schools. So the Department of Education is 
looking at bv th a prevention and remediation side of the 
problem. Remediation through the Adult Education Act and 
workplace literacy programs that we fund, as well as other 
on going efforts. Prevention through the Carl Perkins Voca- 
tional Education Act and many of our other education pro- 
grams. 

The Federal Agenda 

Education is at the top of the President's agenda. You 
have probably heard about his Education Summit held last 
September in Charlottesville, Virginia with each of the 50 
Governors. I would like to share with you the six goals that 
came out of that summit. As I do, think about how you can 
support them, how you might be able to get involved in 
them, how as a parent you can support them with your own 
children. Take them back to your local communities; focus 



29 



ou them. We are all stock holders in our education system 
and all of us need to he involved in what happens in the K-12 
system, because it is eventually going to effect all of us. The 
president has called upon us aU as stock holders to become 
involved. 



1. By the year 2000 all children in America will 
start sdxool ready to learn. (There are a tremen- 
dous nimiber of reports that tell us if children 
start out in Kindergarten or first grade on par 
with their fellow students, that they have a 
much better chance of staying in school, retain- 
ing their normed grade and graduating. This is 
an important goal because, if we lose children 
early on, we may lose them forever.) 

2. By the year 2000 the High School graduation 
rate will increase to at least 90%. (Our gradu- 
ation rate right now is around 75%, we have 
quite a way to go.) 

3. By the year 2000 Americans will leave grades 4, 
8 and 12 having demonstrated competency over 
challenging subject matter including english, 
math, science, history and geography, and that 
every school in America will insure that all 
students learn to use their minds well so that 
they may be prepared for responsible citizenship, 
further learning and productive employment in 
our modem economy. (This goal goes to the 
heart of the skills one needs to be a productive 
employee.) 

4. By the year 2000 all United States students will 
be first in the world in science and math achieve- 
ment. 

6. By the year 2000 every adult in America will be 
literate and will posses the knowledge and skills 
necessary to compete in a global economy and 
exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizen- 
ship. 

6. By the year 2000 every school in America will be 
free of drugs and violence and will offer a disci- 
plined environment conducive to learning. 



ERIC 



3(1 



A statement released by the President and Governors 
who attended this sximmit reads as follows: "America's educa- 
tional performance must be second to none in the 21st century. 
Education is central to our quaUty of life, it is at the heart of 
our economic strength and security, our creativity in the arts 
and letters, our invention in the sciences, and the perpetuation 
of our cultural values. Education is the key to American indus- 
trial competitiveness.** 

We have tried to respond to the areas of adult literacy 
and workplace literacy by some of the initiatives we have 
undertaken at the Department of Education. We have in- 
creased our budget for adult education and are seeking the 
largest budget for the Adult Education Act ever. We are sup- 
porting increased funds for the workplace literacy programs so 
that we can fund ahnosi double the number of projects. We are 
asking for additional funding for homeless programs that we 
nm which are tied to job training. We have funded some excel - 
lent projects under the Workplace Literacy Program, through 
them we are learning about what works and what doesn't work 
in teaching adults. Because you cannot teach adults the same 
way you teach an 18 year old, workplace literacy programs 
make their education relevant and meaningfid. Adults are 
much more willing to learn under those circumstances. We are 
also working on coordination of programs and services, and 
technical assistance with the dissemination of information to 
the field. 

Along these lines. President Bush has created an inter- 
agency group called The Taskforce on Literacy, This taskforce 
is designed to find ways to allow the dififerent agencies who are 
responsible for basic skills programs to learn from each other 
and work more closely together. They will attempt to make 
definitions consistent and performance standards consistent. 
Also, they will look at ways to encourage service integration 
and to make services more flexible at a single site. 

The Department of Education will be learning a lot from 
those in the field over the next few years. But, once we have 
this information, what will we do with it? First, we plan to do a 
lot more dissemination and technical assistance. Also, we plan 
to be a lot more visible out in the states. The Department has 
requested money to create a National Literacy Institute on 
Research and Practice. Basically, it would be a national center 
that would provide clearinghouse services, technical assistance, 



31 



research and demonstration projects, workshops and confer- 
ences to infonn those out in the field about what works and 
how to do what works. That center will also be supported by 
funds from the Department of Labor, as well as the Depart- 
ment of Health and Human Services. These three agencies 
will serve as advisors to guide the activities of the center. In 
addition, we will be funding more research. As a part of this 
we will be evaluating the results of the workplace literacy 
projects funded this past year to find out what works and 
what does not. The result of that evaluation will be widely 
disseminated. 

Conclusion 

In the future we will need to tap into the great pool of 
talent and experience of all of our citizens. In order for 
America to be competitive and to remain competitive in the 
global economy, we will have to change the way things have 
been done. We can export our jobs, we can import workers, 
or we can build up the skill of our citizens. Learning must be 
a lifetime project, people will be touching the adult education 
system throughout their lives from now on. Education will 
not be ending at high school or college, technology will not 
allow that and new ways of doing business will not allow 
that. We have to train people to adapt to whole new ways of 
doing things. 

As President Bush has said, 'We must bring in the 
generations, harness the unused talent of the elderly and the 
unfocused energy of the yoimg. For not only is leadership 
passed from generation to generation, but so is stewardship." 
We have the responsibility to pass this educational legacy on. 
Our nation needs a world class workforce and our children 
deserve a world class education. 



ERIC 



32 



Friday, June 22, 1990 



3:00 EM. Panel Presentation 

Paul Jurmo and Anthony Sarmiento - 
**Effective Employee Basic Skills Programs: 
Roles for Labor & Business" 



Introduction 

Paul Jurmo is the Senior Program Associate for the 
Business Council for Effective Literacy, Inc. (BCEL). Anthony 
Sarmiento is Assistant Director of the Department of Educa- 
tion for the AFL-CIO in Washington, D.C. During this panel 
presentation, the two discussed the important roles business 
and labor, as well as educators and public policy makers, 
should play in building more effective workplace literacy 
efforts. The discussion began with the business perspective 
presented by Paul Jurmo, followed by Anthony Sarmiento 
with the labor perspective. Participants were then given the 
opportunity to ask questions about implementing the ideas 
presented. 

Part I - The Business Perspective 

The nation has a lot to learn from the workplace liter- 
acy efforts which are now underway in the South. Policy 
organizations like the Southern Growth Policies Board, the 
Sunbelt Institute, and the Appalachian Regional Commission 
have for several years been focusing the attention of public 
policy makers on the workforce implications of the region's 
literacy problems. The region plays h. t to community based 
literacy practitioners who have developed nationally recog- 
nized models for combining literacy education with economic 
development. 

The South has a lot going on in workplace literacy. But 
despite the hard work, the workplace literacy field in the 
United States is still in its infancy. We as a field, not only in 
the South but across the country, have a lot of work to do to 
build on the experience we've gained so far. We have a great 
need for better informed poUcy-making and for high quality 
staff development opportunities. 



33 



The Business Perspective 



Although it would be nice to be able to say there is a 
business perspective on workplace literacy issues, that is 
simply not the case. The reality is that businesses are re- 
sponding to the employee basic skills question in may different 
ways. After observing what the business community has said 
and done around this issue for the past six years, I have come 
to the conclusion that there is no single business 
perspective. What seems in fact to be the case is that the 
business community is responding in many ways to the ques- 
tion of how prepared U.S. workers are to handle the new 
workplace. 

In some cases, businesses haven't given the question 
much thought at all and haven't really developed a position on 
the topic. There are a variety of reasons for this lack of action. 
Some have not yet been hit in the face, or in the pocketbook by 
the painful experience of having an under- educated 
workforce. Others are so preoccupied with financial matters 
that management does not have the time to look at the issue 
of employee basic skills. Still others have simply not been 
exposed to the concept of workplace literacy. 

There are also businesses which have considered the 
issue and found that they have a worker basic skills problem, 
but have decided to ignore the problem. While some of these 
companies lack the resources necessary to begin a workplace 
literacy program, more often they hope the problem will 
resolve itself through company lay-offs and the pvirchase of 
new technology. In other cases, businesses look at the prob- 
lem and decide the solution Ues in improving traditional 
school education. This response ignores the fact that millions 
of low literate workers are already beyond school age and will 
be in the workforce Tor the next 20 to 30 years. 

Some businesses, realizing they have an employee basic 
skills problem, seek a solution that will not cost them much 
time or money. These businesses typically look for an educa- 
tional institution or vendor to provide a low-cost, "quick" 
solution to the problem. Other businesses recognize that the 
skills of the available workforce are not what the company 
requires, and the employer decides that the most efficient way 
to deal with the problem is to find a test or other screening 
device to eliminate inadequately- skilled workers before they 
are hired. 



34 



Finally, there are those few businesses who have sat 
down, done their homework, and realized that an effective 
response to the employee basic skills problem wiU require a 
number cf short and long term efforts on many fronts. Time, 
thought, a collaborative spirit, and hard resources are devoted 
to dealing with the problem. And these things will continue 
to need to be devoted, net just by these businesses, but by the 
entire nation if we are to effectively deal with the millions of 
under-educated adults who will make up a good chimk of our 
workforce for the next 20, 30, or more years. 

The Growing Interest in Workplace Literacy 

Workplace literacy has been a hot topic in recent years. 
Business and labor leaders have been told by public policy 
makers, educators and the media that they should be paying 
attention to the basic skills of their workers. They have been 
learning that the work force is changing as the pool of avail- 
able workers is increasingly made up of people who have 
deficiencies in the area of basic skills. They are also learning 
that the workplace is changing. Workers are now expected to 
have higher levels and broader ranges of basic skills. 

In response to what they have been told and in re- 
sponse to their own direct experience, business and labor 
leaders have now begun to pay more attention to employee 
training and education issues. Businesses have been forming 
task forces, examining workforce resources in their communi- 
ties and in their industries, assessing the basic skills of their 
own employees, and in some cases actually jumping in and 
setting up programs for their employees. Unions have in- 
creasingly done the same. 

Lessons Learned to Date 

On the surface, it seems as if the key players have 
become aware, shown some interest, done some planning, and 
devoted some resources to begin tackling the employee basic 
skills problem. But we should not be satisfied with where 
things stand today. The quaUty of existing programs and the 
level of commitment to these programs are not what they 
should be. If educators, employers, unions, or public policy 
makers really want to develop effective employee basic skills 



35 



efforts in this country, some hard questions must be dealt with 
and a good deal more groundwork must be done before we go 
much further. 

Far more care must be taken when assessing needs. In 
too many cases an employee education effort is implemented 
without a true understanding of the problem or the range of 
possible solutions. Understanding the Uteracy problem in a 
particular workplace requires careful study by all parties 
concerned. A team of managers, union representatives, educa- 
tors and employees should be formed. This team should first 
do their homework to learn from the considerable work al- 
ready done by researchers and other employers and unions. 

Basic skills are no longer defined as the 3 R's we 
learned in grammar school. Thus, an employee education 
planning team should use a broader definition which includes 
technical and social skills. Through employee (and supervisor) 
interviews, observations of workers actually on the job, and 
production record reviews, a planning team will produce a 
clear picture of the skill areas with which workers might be 
having problems. These are the areas an employee education 
program should be designed to accomplish. 

Once problem areas are identified, the team needs to 
continue their systematic planning by investigating possible 
strategies for responding to them and by developing the appro- 
priate response for their workplace. Rushing in to set up an 
educational program is not always the best response. Some- 
times restructuring particular jobs to enable workers to per- 
form more efiiciently and safely with the skills they already 
possess is the most appropriate response. Sometimes rewrit- 
ing the materials used in a job to make them more easily 
understood by the workers who have to use them is the most 
appropriate response. 

In most cases, however, developing an instructional 
program is the best route to take. Yet, often planners of em- 
ployee basic education programs have little prior experience 
putting together a Hteracy program. Many naturally assume 
that any instructional method will work. This is obviously a 
false assumption. Research has shown that, too often, tradi- 
tional literacy programs have simply adopted academic 



3 a 



instructional approaches found in school. This curricula has 
little direct relevance to the particular job tasks employees 
face each day. If mastery of job-related literacy tasks is at 
least part of the program's intended purpose, such standard- 
ized curricula are not a direct route to those job-related objec- 
tives. Planners should decide first what they want to accom- 
plish with an educational effort By beginning here, they will 
be better able to decide on the best method to reach these 
goals. 

As an altemative to the traditional curricula which 
teach skills in a vacuum that is isolated firom meaningful 
uses, some literacy practitioners have developed a contextual- 
ized approach to instruction. The contextualized is struc- 
tured to enable the learner to learn by doing, to develop the 
strategies used in fluent reading and writing by actually 
practicing those strategies in real, meaningful activities. No 
two of these programs look the same. Some define the "con- 
text" for the learners, while others involve employees them- 
selves in defining literacy tasks and topics on which to build 
the curriculum. 

A growing number of workplace educators are develop- 
ing a third alternative for employee basic skills education 
which rejects these two instructional approaches. This third 
alternative goes by a number of names: participatory, collabo- 
rative, learner centered, worker centered, partnership educa- 
tion, and other terms. Basically, all see the worker, not as a 
company machine which needs some technical fine tuning, but 
as a human being with considerable strengths and interests. 
Learners' personal qualities are seen as assets; thus participa- 
tory workplace programs are structured to provide multiple 
opportimities for workers to build on their strengths, enable 
them to think critically, analyze and solve problems, and com- 
municate clearly. 

The emphasis of needs assessment in participatory 
programs is not so much on workers' deficits as on their exist- 
ing abilities, interests and potential. Learners study articles 
in the company newsletter, work related statistics, and other 
texts related to the topics which interest them. They also 
write about those topics, share their writings and give feed- 
back to one another. Verbal comamnication and math activi- 
ties, even complex tasks, are likewise built around real world 
interest. By encouraging workers to focus on a wide range of 



topics of personal interest, participatory programs reinforce 
the notion that language is a tool which workers can use to 
accomplish meaningful, interesting goals. 

In this collaborative arrangement, employers and edu- 
cators are seen as partners who help define what is studied in 
the program, but Uiey don't dominate the process. In this 
collaborative process, workers' self-esteem and team spirit are 
reinforced as they realize that they have something to say and 
have colleagues who are willing to listen. 

Actions Needed 

These kinds of carefully planned programs, unfortu- 
nately, remain a distinct minority within the (ield. These 
programs require a number of ingredients not yet widely 
available. Our challenge is to make sure that the basic ingre- 
dients of vision, cooperation, qualified personnel, and material 
resources are in place before we go much further with literacy 
efforts which should be aiming at creating not only a more 
productive workforce but a more just and democratic society 
as well. 

Employers, unions, and public policy makers faced with 
setting up a worker education program should not settle on 
quick fix solutions. They need to do careful needs assessments 
and resource development. By doing so, they will be engaging 
in the same kind of thoughtful planning they would give to 
any other business decision. 

Vendors of educational texts, software, videos, and 
consulting services are often overlooked as players in the 
workplace literacy efforts. As a field, we neijd to encourage 
workplace literacy publishers and consultants to become our 
allies in the development of appropriate methodologies rather 
than fimction as competitors for scarce educational resources. 
It is also time that more representatives of the news media get 
beyond merely repeating what is already known about the 
workplace literacy issue. The public needs to know what 
needs to be done, and by whom, to really create a strong 
American workforce and society. The media can help educate 
us all. 



38 



Adult educators need to take the time to remember 
that the process of developing a quality educational program 
requires considerable technical skills and a dear vision. In 
workplace programs, we are being pushed into a focus on the 
bottom line when in fact we know that employee basic skills 
education is much more than fine tuning workers' technical 
skills to increase corporate profits. 

Finally, we need to remember the central role which 
workers themselves play in these efforts. We mustn't forget 
that the success of workplace literacy education in this coun- 
try will be largely up to the workers who will participate in 
the programs we create with them. If we leave them out of 
the process of putting together our educational program, we 
will likely fail to take advantage of their considerable valu- 
able knowledge and positive motivations. 



Conclusion 

Workers in the United States have a lot going for them 
already. That includes those who didn't get the opportunity 
to develop strong literacy skills. If the rest of us do our part, 
we can make sure all of our workforce get a real chance to 
succeed this time around. 




Part II - The Labor Perspective 



There are many important issues in the area of 
workplace literacy I could have chosen to talk about today. 
I could have discussed the difficulty we have had on the De- 
partm'ant of Education's Literacy Definition Committee in 
defining literacy. One of the debates we had in trying to come 
up with a definition of literacy for the United States as it 
measures adults throughout the country was over the nature 
of literacy. Should we emphasize only the use of printed and 
written information or should we emphasize both the use and 
the production of printed and written information? I could 
have chosen to talk about all the different ways unions have 
been involved in worker education. Why we are so interested 
in this and why unions are bargaining for more in the collec- 
tive bargaining agreement to set up education programs. 
However, and more importantly, I would like to talk about re- 
lationships. 

The Labor Perspective 

There has been a lot of discussion so far about partner- 
ships, but what is the natiu-e of these partnerships? When we 
talk about relationships we need to recognize that each part- 
ner has different perspectives, values and priorities. How do 
we resolve these differences? How do we acknowledge them 
and move on? These questions are important to unions, be- 
cause there will always be differences between unions and 
management. This is not to say that the stereotype of labor 
and management always fighting is true. It is far from true 
and we have more in common than we have differences; we 
agree that there is a need for increased adult education but 
we debate about what to do and how to utilize the resources 
available. 

How do we take care of these relationships? Partner- 
ships are important, so how do we make them work when 
there are differences among the partners? We have heard the 
joke that says the definition of coordination is an unnatural 
act between two unconsenting partners...it is even worse 
when you talk about a three way relationship between em- 
ployees, employers and educators. We must first ask the 
question: **What is the quality of this partnership?" As far as 
the business/ employee relationship is concerned, the rhetoric 



ERIC 



about employees being a company's greatest resource needs to 
be more than rhetoric. 

The Example ofFrito-Lay 

At the Frito-Lay Orlando plant, employees were shown 
in a variety of ways how important they were. Workers re- 
ceived all kinds of signals that they were truly valued by 
management and that the rhetoric was not just rhetoric. 
What were some of these signals? The Orlando plant liad a 
no-layofif policy. Even when new technology came in, employ- 
ees working the jobs replaced by machines were given the 
opportunity to retrain for new jobs. Like most companies, 
they had two alternatives as new technology affected their 
plant. They could fire people who didn't have the skills and 
replace them with people who did, or they could retrain the 
people they had. This plant recognized that someone who has 
shown 15 years of loyalty to the company had something to 
offer that is not as tangible. Also, they were willing to back up 
their commitment statements with money to educate their 
employees. They allowed employees to go to classes as part of 
their regular eight hour work day, put in a new education 
center with computers, and even after the Federal grant 
money was gone, they continued the program. All participa- 
tion in the program was voluntary and employees believed it 
was everyone's responsibility to make the company continue to 
be productive. Finally, the company talked about empowering 
their workforce. Is this kind of relationship attainable where 
you are now? 

In Frito-Lay Orlando, Kelly Mossberg made it clear that 
the relationship was a real team. Each partner was in the 
program for the long haul. At the same time employers and 
employees figure out the nature of their relationship, the 
educational partners need to monitor their relationship, credi- 
bility and trust with the private sector. 

Building Relationships Among Partners: 
Education & Business 

I suggest the educational and business partners think 
about how they will design their own formative evaluation. 
How will you rate the metacognitive skill of each of the part- 
ners. These are the kinds of things we rate our participants 



41 



on, how do we rate? Part of this will involve communication 
that goes beyond throwing people together. The partners 
must learn about each other. Those of you in education must 
now not only become experts in learning theory and instruc' 
tional design, but also experts about the industry you find 
yourself working within. If you are not aware of the kinds of 
trends and pressures the individuals you are working with ai e 
working under, the kinds of new technology that are facing 
those individuals, the consolidation of ownership that may be 
causing changes...then how will you come across as credible to 
those hardline, bottom line managers? 

How will you come across as credible to employees when 
they get the feeling you don't appreciate the kind of jobs, 
tasks and work conditions they face? Look at the relationship 
between supervisors and employees. You can tell a lot about 
this relationship by looking at the work conditions and the 
conditions of the equipment ...are the signals there similar to 
those we "saw" at Frito-Lay? When you talk about the impor- 
tance of linking literacy/basic skills training programs to 
existing training at the work site, are you making the assump- 
tion that there is existing training at the worksite? 

If you look at recent research by the American Society 
for Training and Development or the Society for Human Re- 
source Management, you will find that only 10% of the Ameri- 
can workforce gets any kind of formal training on the job. As 
a general rule, the more education you bring to a job the more 
likely you are to get someone to invest in maintaining that 
education. When you look at who gets the training it is the 
managers and highly paid technicians. The less education you 
bring to a job the less Ukely you are to get someone to invest in 
maintaining that education. In surveys done by their own, 
only 25% of employers said they are interested in basic skills 
urograms. Seventy- five percent said that they were not inter- 
ested or that they did not think it was their job. 

Building Relationships Among Partners: 
Education & Labor 



Educators should not only look at the job task, but the 
total work environment and culture. Begin by reading Busi- 
ness Week or the Wallstreet Journal to follow some of the cur- 
rent trends and ideas that concern the work partner. If you 
are in a unionized plant, read books about unions and worker 



ERIC 



42 



involvement, look over a copy of the contract and the collective 
bargaining agreement to find out the rules that govern the 
workplace right now. And draw on your own experience. 
Think about the jobs you have had and the job you have now. 
Who gives training where you work? Is learning a value in 
your organization, has anyone ever asked you for your ideas 
about what the priorities ought to be or what you will be 
assigned to do? Only about 25% of most companies even do 
anything like an employee survey. 

We are all illiterate in some particular context depend- 
ing upon what we are being asked to do, the nature of the 
reading material we are given or the nature of the writing we 
have been asked to do. Once we realize there is not much 
difference between us and the individuals we are trying to 
serve we will start to design programs with their interest in 
mind and they will come to us. 

The alliance between labor organizations and educators 
is a natural one. Just as you have said that you want educa- 
tion to go beyond productivity and job training, so we in the 
labor movement 'vant education to go beyond productivity and 
job training. It is not just important that people be able to do 
their job, it is important that people be able to perform their 
responsibilities as citizens as well as union members. If our 
members cannot read their union newspaper, their contracts, 
proposals and collective bargaining agreements, how will they 
be able to vote in an informed way— whether it be for a candi- 
date for union office or a candidate for elected office in our 
government? 

Conclusion 

In 1916 Samuel Gompers, the first AFL-CIO President 
captured Labor's perspective. He said, "Education is not an 
arbitrary thing that automatically ends with a certain year of 
life, but must continue throughout life if the individual is 
really to live and make progress. Education is an attitude 
toward life, an ability to see and understand problems and 
utilize information forces for the best solution to Ufe's prob- 
lems." Education has nothing to do with productivity specifi- 
cally, but speaks of human potential and helping our mem- 
bers do what they want to do and reach for whatever goals 
they have set for themselves. 



•13 



Saturday, June 23, 1990 



9:00 AJM. General Session 

Larry Mikulecky - *'Recent Research of What 
Works and What Doesn't Work in the Workplace" 



Introduction 

Dr. Mikulecky is Professor of Education at Indiana Uni- 
versity as well as the Chair of the Language Education De- 
partment there. His research examines the literacy require- 
ments for success in business. He has served as a consultant 
to nimierous governmental agencies and school districts. He 
is also author of over 75 published works. 

Dr. Mikulecky's presentation sunmiarized, in part, a 
chapter that he and Rad Drew have recentiy completed for 
pubUcation. The explanation here will attempt to summarize 
some of that chapter and Dr. Mikulecky's remarks. The chap- 
ter, "Basic Literacy Skills in the Workplace" will appear as 
Chapter 24 of the text, Handhnnk of Reading Research: Vol- 
ume II (1991), Longman. 



What is Basic to Functional Literacy in the 
Workplace? 

By the 1970's research had established that American 
adults spend more time reading and writing in the workplace 
than they do anywhere else. Since so much of adult reading 
time is spent on work-related material, it becomes essential 
that we understand the reading demands encountered in 
these materials. 

The definition of functional literacy continues to be 
muddled; there is little agreement on what skills actually 
comprise literacy. Thus, literacy specialists define Uteracy in 
a number of ways and even disagree about the best ways to 
measure literacy levels. Some prefer to look at job literacy 
competencies while others prefer establishing grade level 
equivalencies. 



41 



ERIC 



44 



Using grade level indicators is somewhat problematic. 
Research has shown that workers can read work-related 
materials at a higher grade level than they can newspaper- 
like materials. Sticht (1986), found a variance of up to four 
grade levels when reading job-related materials. Familiarity 
with the topic and format seem to attribute to this finding. 
Therefore, grade level defini+ions of literacy are particularly 
ineffective as a reader's backgroimd knowledge increases. 

It appears that the ability to process information by an 
individual may be a better predictor of functional literacy task 
difficulty than the more traditional indicators of reading 
difficulty. 

Literacy Demands in the Workplace and 
Workplace Training 

There are a small and shrinking number of jobs reqiair- 
ing Httle or no literacy, and the amount of Hteracy demands 
appears to be increasing in most sectors of the workplace. 

In 1980 Diehl and Mikulecky examined 100 workers in 
a representative cross-section ranging from executive vice 
presidents to fork-Hft drivers. Only 2% of the occupations 
examined required no reading or writing, in fact most re- 
quired workers to spend nearly two hours daily reading print, 
charts, graphs, and computer terminals. Difficulty of on-the- 
job reading material ranged from the ninth to the twelfth 
grade levels. 

Many high school students are unprepared for using 
Hteracy skills in the workplace. Rather than reading from a 
single text, workers are required to gather information from 
several sources to solve problems, provide services and per- 
form tasks. Problem-solving reading skills (the abilities to set 
purposes, self-question, summarize information, monitor 
comprehension, and make useful notes) often distinguish 
superior workers from adequate workers when exhibited at 
the workplace. 

The hteracy demands for vocational training appear to 
be even higher. Mikulecky (1982) found that students in job- 
training programs actually spent more time reading texts and 
manuals than did high school juniors. ReadabiUty formulas 



45 



have indicated that training materials range in difficulty from 
eighth-grade level to college-graduate level. While these high 
levels create a demand oh vocational students, the student's 
interest, motivation and familiarity with a given subject 
matter often ofifset some degree of the diffioilty. 

It is clear that an individual's success in the classroom 
and the workplace is dependent, in part, on an ability to read 
and apply information obtained from complex contextual and 
graphic materials. Literacy skills in vocational training and 
work «}ettings include reading to solve problems and make 
judgements, 

Literacy Skills Demands Have Been Increasing 
with ScTne Exceptions 

The difficulty levels of occupational reading are quite 
high. Even blue collar v orkers average more than one and 
one-half hours of daily job reading. Though having a wealth 
of background knowledge on a topic can lower reading diffi- 
culty levels, the heaviest job-related reading is performed by 
new workers learning new jobs and these are the least Hkely 
to have the needed background experience. 

Literacy needs have changed. For example, materials 
handlers have traditionally been the employees who picked up 
boxes and moved them from place to place. Muscles not 
brains were hired. Today in many industries the same jobs 
require that employees sit in chairs and run computers that 
monitor automated warehouses. They keep real-time invento- 
ries and do real-time quaUty control. They now have a much 
more important role in the management of the operation in- 
tellectually than ever before. 

Fragmented, assembly line type jobs are now fre- 
quently shipped out of the country, leaving Americans with 
low literacy abilities without employment. Many service 
industries are attempting to compensate for the low skills 
through the use of pictures on cash registers, robots and 
computerized pricing. These are attempts to eUminate mis- 
takes by lower bkilled employees and in many cases reduce 
the need for lower skilled workers altogether. General Mo- 
tors, for example, is quickly approaching its goal of an 80 
percent reduction in non-skilled positions through the in- 
creased use of robots. 



ERIC 



The Changing Nature of Work 



As the nature of work changes, so do the accompanying 
levels of literacy skills required. Even though we have been 
informed in numerous reports that service industry jobs will 
make up the greatest number of new jobs in the immediate 
future, a good deal of increased paperwork and regular man- 
aging of information to solve problems will be required. 

While much research, including that of Mikulecky, tells 
us that high-tech jobs will make up only a small percentage of 
future jobs, occupations that have traditionally required 
minimal basic skills are becoming more coirplex, demanding 
higher-level reading, writing and computational skill. Some 
occupations will show a decrease in sMU requirements, but 
most will move from low-skill to middle- skill levels. 

Relationship of Literacy Skills to Job 
Performance 

The underlying assumption that literacy skill levels 
and job performance are directly related has not been demon- 
strated in an overwhelming way in research. Most of the 
research is sketchy and based on military studies. 

While reading ability has been shown to be a moderate 
predictor of job performance, literacy and cognitive perform- 
ance do not totally explain job performance. A much higher 
relationship was noted between job performance and the 
ability to apply and use reading, writing, and computation 
skills critically. Low ability reading levels, however, do result 
in losses in production, quaUty, and general corporate per- 
formance through costly accidents and mistakes. 

To summarize, literacy skills appear to be related to job per- 
formance in at least two ways: 

1. the best workers can communicate and use print 
to solve problems; and 

2. the least effective workers do not use print in 
such ways and may be prone to costi> dangerous 
errors in situations calling for the use of basic 
skills. 



47 



How Generic and Transferable are Literacy 
Skills? 



For many years it was assumed that once basic skills 
were learned, tkey would easily be transferable to the 
workplace or vocational training. Researchers, however, have 
found that transfer on the part of learners is severely limited, 
Duffy (1985) noted that transfer from one reading task to 
another depends on the similarity of components (the process- 
ing requirements) of the tasks. For example, Sticht (1982) 
reported that military recruits given traditional Hteracy-skill 
training made gains while in class, but tended to revert and 
lose their skills within eight weeks. Personnel retained 80 
percent of their end-of-course gain in job literacy traijiing and 
only 40 percent of their end-of-course gain in general reading. 

According to Mikulecky et al. the most effective job 
literacy training programs appear to integrate literacy skills 
training with actual job training. Programs such as this avoid 
the risk of mistakenly assuming transfer or mistakenly count- 
ing on generic skills. 

Effective Training Programs * 

A key characteristic of effective workplace literacy 
programs is a job-oriented approach that employs tasks, 
materials, and training directly linked to the fimctional con- 
text in the workplace. This increases the likelihood of trans- 
fer and continued practice of skills and strategies mastered in 
training (Sticht & Mikulecky, 1984). 

Dr. Mikulecky discussed several military and 'nvilian 
programs in which teaching materials were developed using 
table of content, indexes, tables and graphs that were needed 
on jobs. He discussed the use of video disc and computer 
applications as they have been developed for specific pro- 
grams. He also described a retraining program which hired a 
reading specialist to help employees gain mastery of technical 
vocabulary, concepts, and materials. The specialist set up 
special study guides to break down assignments into manage- 
able tasks and in some cases rewrote or redesigned materials 
to lower difficulty levels. 



48 



Several conclusions could be made. It does appear 
possible to make fairly rapid gains in the ability to compre- 
hend technical material if training is focused on that material. 
General literacy improvement, however, was less apparent in 
such programs. Best results seemed to occur when basic 
skills training was integrated with techrical training. Match- 
ing training to the application on the job appears to be the 
most successful approach. 

Modifying Literacy Demands Via Job 
Performance Aids 

Training is not the only way to narrow the gap between 
worker literacy abiUties and workplace demands. Information 
can be restructured so that it is more accessible and compre- 
hensible to workers. The restructured information is often 
called job performance aids (JPA). 

Performance aids are usually based on a task analysis 
of the jobs to be accomplished by the employee. While they 
vary in format, typically checklists, flowcharts, step-by-step 
directions and computerized guidance programs are used. Job 
performance aides are designed to improve job performance 
and lower the time needed for training. 

Needed Rc search 

Dr Mikulecky noted five areas of research which still need 
attention: 

1. developing workplace literacy process models; 

2. determining the generalizability and limits of 
transfer for Hteracy strategies in the workplace; 

3. examining the cost-effectiveness of workplace 
literacy training efiforts; 

4. technology's role in workplace literacy training; 
and 

5. economic and political issues related to race and 
social class. 

Research in the area of cost-effectiveness would be 
particularly helpful to businesses considering a workplace 
training program. Workplace literacy is often concerned with 

j 



the cost-benefit ratio of training. Military research by Sticht 
(1982) indicates that a grade-level gain m reading ability 
takes approximately 100 hours of engaged Hteracy training 
time. Focusing on job specific training can cut le time and 
thus cut costs, but gains may be limited to the job-specific 
materials. 

Multistranded Approaches 

There appear to be three major problem areas in 
workplace literacy. These areas relate to: 

1. extreme low-level literates who are unable to 
fimction independently with even simple print 

(this is the smallest number of workers but those who are foremost 
on the public's mind) ; 

2. new and experienced workers who can read at a 
moderate level (the sports page), consider them- 
selves literate, but derive Uttle benefit from ex- 
pensive training because of insufficient reading, 
computing, and study abilities, 

(this includes the vast majority of workers who may even have a 
high school degree yet test too far below minimum training levels 
to be successful in on-going training ); and 

3. workers at nearly all ability levels who make 
some job-related literacy mistakes that influence 
safety, productivity and promotability 

(mistakes are reported by employers as the major literacy problem. 
Literacy-related productivity problems involve mistakes such as 
the need to redo correspondence or a safety error and block the 
ability to implement new productivity innovations). 

Most v/ork sites experience all three of the above problem 
areas. It is unlikely that a single solution will solve all of 
ttiem. A multistranded approach which offers varying solu- 
tions to varying problems is needed. 



5(1 



Conclusions 

There is a gap between the Uteracy abilities needed to 
be productive in the workplace and the abiUty levels of a 
significant percentage of workers. This gap is largely the 
result of a general increase in the demands of most jobs that 
has occurred at the same time that many very low-skilled jobs 
have been disappearing or shifted to nations where labor is 
less expensive. 

Because a disproportionate percentage of black and 
Hispanic workers are among those with the most inadequate 
skills, our ability to thrive economically may be dependent 
upon our abiUty to integrate these workers into our labor 
force more productively. We must recognize that there are 
several workplace Uteracy problems and that they call for 
differing solutions. The workplace of the 1990's may require 
as many different educational resources as our school systems 
presentiy require. 



51 



Saturday, June 23, 1990 



lOtOOAJVI. Concurrent Session 

Note: Only summaries from two of the four concurrents sessions were 
obtained during the conference, they were prepared by participants in 
the sessions indicated. 



Dr. Tom Valentine - **Developing Curriculum 
in the Workplace** 

Curriculum provides a reason for student placement 
and direction for the program. In order to design curriculum 
for a workplace literacy program, educators must visit the 
worksite to gather information for planning purposes. This 
information shotild include: the literacy education needs of 
the corporation, the goals of the proposed program, the re- 
sources needed for the proposed program and the nature of 
the employees the program would need to serve. Specific 
questions to ask when gathering this information include: 

1. The Literacy Needs of the Corporation: 

- how do we know some employees in the corporation 
need literacy education? 

- educational level of workers? 

- literacy related job problems? 

2. The Goals of the Proposed Program: 

- to what extent will the proposed program be expected 
to increase production in the corporation? 

- to what extent will the proposed program be expected 
to increase job satisfaction among employees? 

- to what extent will the proposed program be expected 
to increase employees' self-esteem? 

- to what extent will the proposed program be expected 
to help employees with literacy tasks not related to 
work? 

- to what extent will the proposed program be expected 
to help improve the community in which the corpora- 
tion rer ides? 



• does the corporation consider this program to be 
primarily an employee benefit or primarily produc- 
tion-oriented training? 

- how wiU the corporation judge the success of the 
program? 

3. The Resources Needed for the Proposed Program: 

- what resources (i.e. instructional location, materials, 
release time, money) will the corporation contribute 
to the program? 

- what resources will the educational provider be 
expected to contribute? 

- who will staff the program? 

- where will the program be housed? 

- how much money is available for curriculum develop- 
ment? 

4. The Nature of the Employees the Program Would 
Serve: 

- who exactly will the program be designed to serve? 

- how many of these employees are there? 
• are employees unionized? 

- why might those employees choose to em oll in the 
program (incentives and benefits)? 

- why might those same employees choose not to enroll 
(threats and competing demands)? 

- who can best inform us about the employees probable 
reaction to such a program? 

During preliminary activities talk with supervisors, 
employees, union representatives, tour the plant and identify 
sample on-the-job reading, writing and math tasks. Initial 
contact requires realism, and often you must educate the 
business as well as the employees. 

Be sure instruction is geared toward specific tasks - 
this kind of instruction is the most productive. Workers 
must see that the program values learning and expects suc- 
cess from them. 



Jorie Philippi - "Training in Workplace 
Literacy*' 

A multi-stranded approach to curriculum design is the 
most successful for program development. This type of ap- 
proach meets the needs of both the employee and the em- 
ployer. It involves the learner as a whole person and trans- 
fers to whole-Ufe situations. A multi-stranded approach 
utilizes metacognitive methods to focus on or mirror job skills 
as applied to life skills. 

To be successful in selling your training to business, 
you need to understand the agenda or criteria for need in the 
targeted industry. Your program competes with various other 
internal and external forces for time, material, monies, and 
other resources. All businesses and industries have their own 
agenda. 

The focus of all workplace literacy training is to serve 
the basic worker. To make that person promotable and in 
general a more successful employee and citizen. There is so 
much knowledge out there that people cannot process effec- 
tively. You are charged with helping people access the knowl- 
edge they need . So help your clients set realistic expectations. 

There are corporate and individual expectations. Do 
not make the mistake of promising more than you can effec- 
tively deliver. If your program attempts to be too broad based 
or to remediate too deeply you are doomed to fail. Understand 
the changes which are desirable to make a positive impact in 
the specific workplace. Compare these desired changes to the 
corporate alloted time frame. Be realistic in marketing expec- 
tations. While focused adult learners can make significant 
progress fairly quickly, it is impossible to remediate twelve 
years of poor education in six weeks. You can positively im- 
pact job specific skills very effectively. 

It is a recognized academic goal to teach information 
and expect transfer to general life situations. In reality, 80% 
of what you teach is lost within six weeks if it is not reinforced 
by frequent practice. People are being overwhelmed by the 
knowledge explosion. We are all being exposed to more mate- 
rial than we can internalize, thus reinforcement is ever more 
critical. 



54 



To be competent perfonners in our society, and to de- 
velop a good image of self worth, people need to hold an im- 
portant job. Today this requires critical thinking skills and 
the ability to make choices on every level. The enculturation 
process of being on welfare erases the ability to make choices. 
The system does not allow productive choices; the system 
dictates behavior. Thus, recipients gradually loose their 
ability to choose effectively. Training empowers workers to 
become and remain fully functional. Today it is necessary to 
be promotable just to retain a job, even the most basic entry 
level job is becoming more technical. A job candidate must be 
able to read warnings, follow directions, interpret signals, 
and probably be computer literate. Workplace changes are 
not going to stop. It is our job as trainers to help employees 
meet the increased challenges these changes will bring. 

To be functional, training materials must access the 
familiar - both in the workplace and in broader life situ- 
ations. Analyze a specific segment need and design materi- 
als to meet that need. 



55 



/ 



Saturday, June 23, 1990 
11:45 AJVI. Closing Luncheon 

Faye Fowler - **Upgrading Academic Skills in 
the Workplace— A Success Story at Duke Power 
Company^ 



Introduction 

Faye Fowler serves as Director of Human Resources 
Planning, Development and Employee Relations, as well as 
Assistant to the Vice President of Himian Resources for Duke 
Power Company. She has been with Duke since 1960 and has 
worked primarily in the areas of employee relations and 
improvement. Her presentation dealt with the way in which 
basic skills training relates to changing work requirements 
specifically at Duke, but her observations are easily applicable 
to worksites throughout the South. 

The Need for Higher Skills in a Changing 
Workplace 

As you are well aware, there is a looming mismatch 
between the education of employees and the educational 
requirements of the jobs in this country. As educators, you 
know the statistics and the predictions better than I do. But 
as a representative of a major employer in North and South 
Carolina, I can tell you that what I do know frightens me. At 
Duke Power Company we are seeing a shrinking labor pool, 
fewer qualified applicants for our job openings— no applicants 
for some job openings, and an ever increasing training re- 
quirement for employees in some areas due to regulation and 
rapid changes in technology. If that is what we are seeing 
today, what will the future look like? 

The Future World of Work , a report published by the 
United Way of America paints a sobering picture of the 
workforce needs by the turn of the century. Its authors pre- 
dict that 75% of new jobs will require at least some college 
education, where as 60% of America's current jobs can be 
performed with a high school diploma or less. At the same 

50 



time many employees already in the workforce will see an 
increasing need for advanced training due to the technologi- 
cal advices we see today and those on the horizon. The job 
may stay the same, but the way of getting that job done will 
change dramatically and will require a high level of knowl- 
edge on the part of employees. 

This gap is already showing itself in the dollar 
amounts that businesses are investing in corporate training. 
In the late 80's businesses were investing at least twenty-one 
billion dollars to teach remedial education and fundamental 
job skills. In the July, 1988 TrenH Letter. John Nesbitt wrote 
that by the turn of the century more than 65% of large U.S. 
companies will provide remedial education to boost productiv- 
ity and reduce mistakes. What Nesbitt did not say is that 
companies are already investing in remedial training in an 
effort to retain valuable dedicated employees. Such has been 
the case at Duke Power Company. 

Duke Power Company 

Duke Power Company, the nation's seventh largest 
investor owned utility, services 1.6 million customers in the 
two Carolinas and is renowned in the utility industry for 
building its own power plants (most utility companies do not 
construct their own plants, but instead bring in contract labor 
to do this). Since the beginning of the company's construction 
department in the 1920's, its employees have built twenty- 
six hydroelectric stations, eight coal fired stations, and three 
nuclear stations. The technological developments in efficient 
production of electrical power are evident in these plants — 
particularly when you compare the earliest hydro-dams with 
the nuclear stations. The technology in the nuclear stations 
is unbelievably advanced, and the men and the women who 
have helped build these plants represent a very special seg- 
ment of Duke's employee population. They are highly skilled 
in the area of construction and highly experienced in their 
various specialties. Yet, sadly some of them are part of the 
estimated 23 million adults who are considered fiinctionally 
illiterate. Two major developments have brought the needs of 
these employees to the forefront of Duke's internal educa- 
tional efforts. 

The first came about as a part of the company's move 
to de-escalate our construction activity. Construction has 



57 



taken a back seat to maintenance since around 1986 when 
Duke opened its third nuclear station. The winding down of 
the company's construction phase made us take a hard look at 
the abilities of our existing construction forces to perform 
mr enance work — ^not only in the hydro and fossil plants, 
but particularly in our nuclear plants. You can imagine the 
tedmical and regulatory requirements associated with nuclear 
power. Maintenance work must be done in such a way that it 
meets very high, very specific standards set by the nuclear 
industry. While the construction experience provided the 
basic hands-on skills necessary to do this maintenance work, 
there was a definite need for technical knowledge and better 
reading, math and writing skills for these employees. We 
found we had two problems early on: 

1. some of our employees could not pass the Nuclear 
Regulatory Committee's basic qualifications tests 
to gain the clearance necessary to do the mainte- 
nance work— they lacked the necessary reading, 
writing and math skills; and 

2. some of our employees could pass these tests, but 
were limited in their effectiveness because they 
lacked a high school diploma which is required 
for these employees to be able to sign-off as ac- 
complishing work in the stations. 

The second development relates closely to the first. As 
our construction efforts closed down we were faced with more 
employees than we needed. Layoffs are nothing; new in the 
construction business; our construction employees are familiar 
with the ebb and flow of that type of work. At the same time 
these were employees who had a lot to offer because they had 
worked so long with the company. Duke wanted to provide 
them with jobs, if there was a way to do that. With the sup- 
port of Duke's management, internal placement activities 
were stepped up to place these employees in jobs in other 
areas of Duke Power Company. This became a difficult and 
often firustrating experience because nine times out often 
these employees were going to have to have in-depth training 
to meet the qualifications for the new job. Without that train- 
ing, both the employee and the hiring manager were put in 
losing positions— neither were getting what they wanted. 



With these developments and the obvious educational 
needs they presented to us, Duke had to do something. In 
1986 a partnership was formed with the York County (South 
Carolina) Adult Education Office to estabUsh two efforts, a 
tutoring program and a G.E.D. program. With Y.C AE.'s 
assistance and guidance, construction employees were 
screened to identify those who needed one-to-one tutoring 
and those who needed G.E.D, classes either to improve their 
general knowledge or to actually prepare for their High 
School equivalency exam. With the screening completed, 
learning began in earnest in January, 1987 and in June, 1987 
forty-five employees graduated in a formal ceremony... the 
following year 39 more employees received their G.E.D. in a 
formal ceremony. The ages of our graduates ranged from 19 
to 63 years—they had between six and 31 years of service 
with Duke Power Company. Some had started with the very 
basic one-to-one tutoring and had advanced through the 
G.E.D. program. 

Elements of Success 

What are the things that made this efiFort successful? 
What are the keys to success in our program? First, the 
screening process, the classes, the G.E.D. exams, and the 
graduations were conducted at the work site. This made the 
educational process less stressful and more comfortable for 
these employees. It also eliminated some of the real and 
subconscious barriers to success. Employees learned in very 
familiar training rooms, places they had been many times 
before. They went to class immediately after their regular 
work day so that they didn't have to go home, clean up and 
drive back. They did this on their own time so that we were 
convinced that their commitment was there and that it was a 
strong commitment. Second, the support of other employees 
was very apparent. Other employees were involved as tutors 
and aides in the G.E.D. classroom, in fact from January 1987 
to April 1988 around 1,400 hours were given by these em- 
ployees to help tutor co-workers. Their ability to do this in a 
supportive, caring manner enabled those in classes to learn 
in a comfortable, open environment. Third, the quality of the 
educators we were able to involve in the program had a tre- 
mendous impact. Without the efforts of these professionals 
giving us their guidance and supporting us in our objectives 



5;) 



we would not be able to be here today attesting to the fact 
that programs can be successful in the workplace. And 
finally, we had the understanding by employees that there 
was a need to change and to improve their educational abil- 
ity. They were aware of and supportive of our changing 
priorities from construction to maintenance work— they could 
see things changing and were eager to gain the skills that 
would enable them to change too. They had too much to lose 
for them not to change. 

Those first two years of on site training have laid the 
foundation for continuing educational opportunities for Duke 
employees. As the needs of employees have changed, so too 
have our programs. The employees themselves have given a 
great deal of input into how courses should be taught and 
what types of reference materials should be available to 
theuL A resource center is open four days a week, and em- 
ployees are given the opportunity to participate in classes 
taught by the York County Adult Education office as well as a 
variety of self-directed computer courses. In addition college 
courses are now being offered at the worksite to improve em- 
ployees skills on the college level. Employees take this re- 
source center seriously and they take the responsibility for 
making sure that its contents meet their needs 



Conclusion 

Education cannot smrive without the support of busi- 
ness. And business cannot survive without the support of 
education. Duke power also has an outreach program called 
P.I.E.— Power in Education. In this program employees 
throughout our service area devote a number of hours each 
month to help tutor students in neighborhood schools. This 
program is an example of where we devote our time ^ the 
school system. Our internal training program is an example 
of where one school system devotes its time to Duke Power 
Company. We had a need and York County Adult Education 
came through. That is what power in education is all about. 



57 



ERIC 



Appendix 



t 



i 



61 



Building a Workforce for the South 
Conference Participant List 



1 



□ 






Adams. Rosemary 




WoJIoWay, iwny 


Aguillon. Andy 




uariiieia. uarwi 


AllM. Shaila 






Alston. Sharaa 




UaVe. rxainvfinw ^rxaiy/ 


Andarson. Alvin F. 




wenieno. joniw r. 


Angal. Penny 




wnopman. iViaiMyn nniiuiitfii 

unase. nancy 






uneamam. juoy 




wnnsiopner. jonn 






uiarK. jonn 


Bacon, Gary 




Clouse, Jane 


Baldwin. AnnaO. 




Clymer, Carol 


Banfield. Marian 




Coffey. Pat 


Barron. Dorothy 




Coile. Suzanne 


Bates. Patricia 




Compton. Joyce 


Bauer. Robert 




Cooper, Elloris 


Beeland. Bob 




Cooper, Wade H. 


Berty. Pat 




Coulter, Ann 


Berthel. Richard 




Cox. Ron 


Betz. Mike 




Culross, Terry 


Rihh Ann W 






Blackledge. Dewey 






Blackiedge. Mary Jo 






Boggis. Molly 




Bowen, Teresa 






Bowler, Michael F. 




Daniel. Cherry 


Bozarjian. Robert 




Daniel. Lee 


Brand. Betsy 




DeFife. Scott 


Branscomb. Chuck 




DeStefano. Johanna 


Brevard. Darryl 




Dixon. Bonny C. 


Bridgers. Jim 




Doak. Perry J. 


Brooks. Nancy Smith 




Dovers. Judith 


Browder. Jerry 




Dunlavey. Walt 


Brown. Bill 




Dunn. Becky 


Brown. Jane McLachlan 






Buchholz. Michael L. 






Bullock. Sarah 
Burden. Geneva 
Burke. Baxter 














Burke. Lynda 




Eley. Mattie H. 


Burt. Miriam 




Eoff . Joe C. 


3utler, Elaine 




Evans. Vergie L. 
Evarhardt, Phil 



o 62 

ERIC 



F 



Fotterman, Karin 
Rngorat, Hanna Arlena 
Rsk, William R. 
Ruaron, Sua 
Folay. Thomas F. 
Folson, Janny 
Fostar, Dina 
Fowlar, Faya 
Fro man, Ron 



G 



Gabbard, Carol 
Gailay, Lamar 
Garratt, Mary 
Gash, Joyca 
Gandimanico, Rosalia 
Gilfillan, Batty 
Gilfillan, Oava 
Gora, Dart 
Gray, Branda 
Graanfast, Michael 



Hacknay. Susan W. 
Halvarson, Brant 
Handshaw. Dick 
Harris. Irwin 
Harrison, Johnnie 
Hasden. Wes 
Heatharly, Jaannia 
Heninger. Dorothy 
Hensley, Beth 
Hewitt. Karen 
Hiles, Judy 
Holmes, Alice F. 
Holmes. Harold 
Hondros, Sherry 
Homung, William P. 
House. Charlie 
Howard, Sue 
Howell Ruth 




Jackson, Ann 
Jameson, Judith 
Jenkins, Tina 
Johnson, Connie 
Johnson, JoAnne 
Johnson, Margo 
Jurmo, Paul 



K 



Kelley, Jean 
Kingery, Ken 
Kinker, Judy Bailey 
Kirk, Nancy 
Kneeland, Chris 
Kramer, Nick 




Lamar, Angela 
Lambert, Susie 
Landrum, Elaine 
Langdala, Sharon 
Lashof, Judith 
Laycock, Dottie 
Leach, Millie 
Legg, HikJa 
Letzkus, Ruth 
Lewis, Judy 
Longnion, Bonnie 
Lowery, Jim 
Lussier, Virginia Lee 
Lynch, Monica 



ivr 



Matone, Kevin 
Manley, Donna 
Marshall, David 
Martin, Karen 
Martinez, Marta 
McCameron, Fritz 
McCrary, Jean 
McDaniel, Gloria 
McEvoy, Ann L. 
McKee. Susan 



McKonzia, Kathkten 
McMillan, Diann D. 
McMillan. Etdridgo 
McNaill^MarciaL 
Mandal, Richard 
Mansah, Donnatta W. 
Mark), Barbara 
Martz, David 
Mayar, Pat 
Mayar, Paul 
Mickulacky, Larry 
Millar. Christina 
Millar, Dava 
Millar. Salty 
Millar, Suzanna 
Miolan. Hazai 
Montgomary, Bo 
Montgomary, Melissa 
Morgan, Annetta 
Mossbarg, Kalley 
Mrowicki* Linda 
Mul<adam, Sattar 
Mulcahy, Lois 
Mullarkey, James 
Mullins, Linda 



Nelson, Lucia 
Newcomb, Sarah 
Newman, Awndrea 
Newman, Mylas 
Nicklas, Ann 
Nurss, Joanne 



Getting, Joyce 
Osbom, Carl J. 
Owens, Larry 



111 



Parks. Teresa 
Parler. Sonny 
Patton. Herb 
Paturaau» Gary 
Perin, Dolores 



Perry, Jim 
Pettitt Karin 
Petty, Carol 
Phllippi, Joria 
Phillipa, Ruthann 
Pollan, Carolyn 
Price, DavM 
Price, William C. 
Pritz, Sandra 
PrybylowsKi, Leo 
Pulling, Lewis 



Red Shirt, Ellen 
Renfrow, Donata 
Reuther, Carol Jean 
Richards, Suzanna 
Richardson, Mikel 
Richardson, Nancy 
Richert, James E. 
Riley, Sherry 
Robertson, Janice 
Robertson, Martha Ann 
Robinson, John C. 
Robinson, Sally 
Rodriguez, Mike 
Roffle, Donald 
Ross, Cynthia 



Sankovsky, Ray 
Sarmianto, Tony 
Shaiton, Elaine 
Shepherd, Dann 
Sharer, Ralph 
Sllc, Kathleen 
Simms, Shauna King 
Singletary, Jean 
Skvensos, Maxine 
Smith, E. Jimmy 
Smith, Jo 
Smith, Mark 
Spann, Janice N. 
Squeri, Elaine G. 
Stang, Mirni 
SteHens, Janet 
Stephenson, Barbara 
Stevenson, Maxine 



ERIC 



stone, Robert 
Stout, David 
Strubbe, Susan 
Stuckay, Elian 
Sullivan, Malinda B. 
Swofford, Adair 



Tabbita, Phillip A. 
Taliaferro, Peggy 
Teasley, Luke 
Thomas, Kathy 
Tignor, Beatrice 
Torrescano, Adolfo 
Tyler, Wendy 



Uvtn. Johan 



Yelton, Roy 



Zeller, John 




Valentine, Tom 
Van Moorhem, Julie 



Wall, Pam 
Walsh, Daniel 
Ward, Cheryl D. 
Ward, Rex 
Washburn. James 
Westberry, Susan 
Whitaker, Patricia 
White, Randall C. 
Whittle, Henry 
Wike, Tracie 
Williams, Dorothy 
Willingham, Estelle 
Willis, Allison 
Wolford, Bruce 
Wong, Betty 




Kegfortal ConferencerTipsi^ 



Focus of the Conference 

The most important element of planning a conference 
involves deciding its focus or theme. Not only will deciding a 
focus for your conference speed decision making later in the 
planning process, it will also insure the material covered will 
be appropriate. When priorities are clear, decisions are easier 
to make. If you do not know what objectives your event 
should accomplish, it may not accomplish anything. To be 
effective and to be attractive to participants, the conference 
must deal with issues or address needs which are important 
enough for your audience to invt vs '. their time and their dol- 
lars. Once you have identified the focus, be prepared to ex- 
plain it in early conference brochures and information. 

A quick survey will help determine current attitudes 
and needs. Surveying members of related associations and 
organizations can give you the type of information you need to 
design an educational meeting. Keeping informed about 
current legislative and regulatory changes will also assist in 
determining content. Furthermore, calling and corresponding 
with funding sources can give you further direction, since 
priorities can be discussed with those most closely related to 
the topic. 

Be sure to check "acceptable" conference subjects v/hen 
inviting state or federal employees. Also, some professionals 
require a very specific list of objectives and goals prior to 
registration. 

Coordination 

Conference coordination is critical in that you mus - be 
certain that adequate skills will be available and timelin(}s 
are drawn up. Coordination requires a sense of detail and 
marketing from those involved. Cooperation and an ability tO 
collaborate with associates who have widely varying agendas 
of their own is essential. 

Coordination can often be dene by those actually in- 
volved with the program areas as long as they have the assis- 
tance of those skilled in conference planning and implementa- 
tion. If possible make arrangements with a non-profit 



(hi 



/ 



i 

» 

organization, such as a umversity, to assist with logistics. 
They will be able to save you time and may even be able to 
generate money to defiray the cost of publishing conference 
proceedings. In many institutions, seed money is not re- 
quired. Also, their participation could be a measure of support 
when the organization or the institution is already involved 
with the subject area. 

Most non-profits will charge indirect costs to cover their 
administrative expenses. They may also need to allocate 
personnel time for brochure design or registration assistance. 
Even with these expenses, it would be to the advantage of the 
conference to identify institutions who can take care of these 
services and enable the committee to devote greater time to 
concentrating on the program agenda. In short, let thoso 
whose expertise in conference planning plan the logistics of 
the conference and those whose expertise is in the content 
areas plan the program. Don t worry about added expenses. 
You will probably receive more registrations with happier 
participants and even generate more funds than if doing it 
yourself. 

An element of regional conference coordination which 
works well and gives a sense of ownership for the conference, 
is the identification of a coordinator in each state with whom 
conference planners can work. This state coordinator can 
identify the important people and organizations for you to 
contact and even mail conference brochures from their Hsts. 
They not only provide leadership within their states, but also 
serve ti gamer support for your event. When utiUzed, state 
coordinators should receive appropriate recognition and any 
financial support possible such as a free lodging during the 
conference and waived registration fees. The use of state co- 
ordinators will make your conference truly regional. 

Conference coordination seems to be most productive 
when specific jobs or tasks are given to the regional coordina- 
tors. ResponsibiHties for important parts of the conference 
being shared with others usually results in a better program 
and a stronger sense of ownership and thus success. 

Audience 

Once you have identified your focus or theme, the next 
job is to identify your audience. If this is an association 



ERIC 



' f)7 



annual meeting, this task is simplified but even then you 
should think beyond the borders of your membership lists. 

Be creative as you define the mailing list. Think of 
supporting organizations or those who share a similar con- 
cern. Think of those who depend upon your subject area. 
Think of those who directiy and indirectiy affect the subject 
through rules, regulations, or dollar appropriations. And 
then, of course, think of all your dose family friends, rela- 
tives and those you can "strong-arm'* if necessary. (Be sure 
to put your own name on the mailing list so you can judge the 
mailing time of brochures.) 

Program 

The actual program is probably the component that 
will sell your conference or influence people to attend. Once 
you have identified both your focus and your audience, you 
must decide who and what will best meet their needs, and 
best meet the expectations you have for the event. 

Top-name speakers are usually essential. The number 
of top-names you ask to attend will depend upon the format 
that you select. For example, if you decide to use a standard 
conference with general sessions and break-outs, you will 
need a greater number of top speakers. People want to hear 
information from those they consider to be ** in the know". 
Unfortunately, these people are not always the most knowl- 
edgeable, so all too often your task becomes slipping the real 
authorities in with the recognized names. On the other 
hand, if you are using a work-shop format as the key compo- 
nent, you can use fewer recognized names and provide 
greater in-depth learning experiences. People like to leave a 
conference or meeting with the feeling that they have learned 
something they can implement when they return home. 

The format will depend to some extent upon the cur- 
rent field of the subject you have chosen and the general 
levels of expertise that have arisen in that field. In areas 
where there is a long standing body of knowledge and tech- 
niques, a general conference format that will generate ideas 
is the best choice. In areas where the strategies are still 
developing, a context to provide common understanding 
followed by in-depth learning seems to work best. The cur- 
rent trend seems to be away fi-om the general format and into 



68 



the more concentrated one. Round-table discussions and 
activities that allow and encourage discussion and interaction 
among participants are also very effective, and stimulate 
networking, ideas and information-sharing. 

Another consideration as the program is being de- 
signed, is to select the convenors of ^ach session to maximize 
participation. They should be knowledgeable in the confer- 
ence topic and be able to provide the expertise participants 
need. They can serve as an added attraction particularly if 
the event is an interactive one. 

Supporting Organizations 

The use of supporting organizations or associations is 
important for a number of reasons. First, they lend credibility 
to the activity. Also, they can provide possible attendees and 
promotional assistance if they will mail brochures to their 
members or share their mailing list with you. 

Too many supporting groups can be difficult to organize 
and lead, however. You may find yourself in the situation in 
which the program or activities are being dictated by the 
support folks. Avoid that if possible. Since every organization 
has its pet speaker, you may want to develop your program 
before you request the assistance of supporting organizations. 

Promotion and Attendance 

A good brochure can "sell" a conference. Be sure your 
conference brochure projects the image you want to get across. 
Take time to think through content. Include the "tentative" 
conference agenda, the goals, the logistics such as hotel ar- 
rangements, and registration information. Do not put too 
much information in a brochure. Allow the pages to be pleas- 
ing and not a jumble to the eye. Provide enough information 
to invite interest yet not bore. Decide upon a format very 
carefully; then, be consistent throughout. Be creative here. 
Save old brochures that have appealed to you and then use 
similar formats. If you are working closely with good desktop 
publishers or typesetters, be sure to give them plenty of time 
to create, and as the brochure takes shape, to catch errors. 

A date saver card to announce the conference should be 
mailed at least nine months prior to the conference date. The 




full brochure should be in their hands three months prior. If 
you can establish dates a year or even two years in advance 
you are even better off. Then folks can save the dates and 
await brochures. 

In addition to mailing brochures to potential conference 
participants, think about all the organizations who pubUsh 
newsletters with a focus similar to your conference. Mail 
them a news release or an explanation and a copy of your bro- 
chure, and ask them to note the dates and topic in the next 
newsletter. There are a vast number of organizations who 
produce newsletters, and most will be happy to include confer- 
ence information. In fact, all of your supporting organizations 
will probably be happy to help in this area. 

Mailing Lists 

Your mailing list is your conference, so treat it with 
care. Update and add to it frequently. Be sure you are aware 
of all the new post office regulations before you even begin the 
design of the brochure. Check the information (zip codes) that 
will be needed and the most effective way to mail. 

Depending upon your paper selection, it may be easier 
to use an ink-jet system for address labels eliminating the 
need for labor to adhere labels. (Glossy paper will not take 
ink-jet.) 

Lodging and Food 

No decision has more potential to make or break the 
conference than your decision concerning conference lodging 
-and how to hanie food. People like a nice room and good 
food. If you begin an event with inadequate food or dirty 
rooms, you will have complaints the entire conference and 
hear about it for years. 

Try to select a setting that meets the needs of the con- 
ference program. Sometimes a university setting in which 
serious learning can take place is the best. Other times a 
hotel setting is more appropriate. The hotel should be coop- 
erative and willing to be extremely flexible. Watch for 
charges that you did not anticipate such as room set-up fees. 
If forced with a decision, the quaUty of the meeting space 
should take precedence. 



7u 



Sleeping rooms and the numbers blocked become im- 
portant when you must provide rooms for speakers and mem- 
bers of the conference committee. You should be able to nego- 
tiate one room per 50 room nights minimum. Try to do better 
and get a suite included at no charge. If you are able to direct 
bill part of the lodging try to get lower rates for those rooms 
also. Since direct billed rooms are sure money for the hotel, 
you should be able to get a break. Also, check hotel sur- 
charges on telephone calls conference participants make. See 
if it is possible to waive the charges if you are negotiating for 
a large group of people. If not, let conference part icipants 
know about the charges (you want to try to avoid surprises 
when your people get their bills), and be sure to share the 
location of pay phones with your group. Another considera- 
tion with the hotel, is parking. No one likes to pay parking 
when they are already paying large registration fees and hotel 
bills. Try to negotiate free parking into the hotel contract. 

Meeting space prices are calculated dififerent ways. 
Usually if you have enough catering functions, there will be 
no meeting charge. However, this is not always the case. 
Some hotels will want to negotiate on a percentage basis. 
This can be dangerous for your budget. A flat rate would 
probably be better for you. You must weigh each ofifer care- 
fully and decide what your attendance can afford. If adding a 
few extra meals can eliminate the meeting charge, that would 
be preferable to a charge higher than the extra uneaten 
meals. 

Food is the second key ingredient. Make sure that it is 
plentiful or at least looks that way. Breaks should most often 
be placed near or in exhibit areas if you are having them. 
This guarantees that folks will walk around the exhibit areas 
and make the exhibitors happy. Instead of making elaborate 
suggestions to catering, let the chef make recommendations to 
you. He/she knows the food business and what menus result 
in the fewest complaints. 

When giving numbers to catering, try to estimate lower 
for opening and closing events. These usually have lower at- 
tendance rates than other conference events. Estimate low 
for continental breakfasts also. For all other meal events give 
catering numbers closer to the true numbers. Remember that 
catering will provide at least 5% more meals, so you can 

71 



always get more food if more people than you were expecting 
show up. On the other hand, when fewer than expected show, 
you have to pay for meals requested but not eaten. Using 
closing coupons or vouchers is another way to help calculate 
closing nr ^al events. A suggestion for increasing the numbers 
is to have an awards ceremony at the last function. 

Exhibitors 

Exhibitors are often very imr ortant to conferences. 
Including exhibitors in the overall conference program offers 
attendees an opportunity to see the latest equipment and cur- 
riculum items and even to receive some free samples. Includ- 
ing them offers companies potential sales and an cpportimity 
to showcase their wares. And finally it ofTers the conference 
committee an opportunity to off-set some costs through exhib- 
itor fees and thus reduce the amount charged for registration 
fees. Exhibitor fees will vary based upon the type of space 
and the eqmpment (pipes and drapes) provided. Be careful 
about providing too much. You can be "stuck" witl* a large 
exposition bill with only 20-25 exhibitors, llie quality of the 
presentation is the important element here. You will nc^d to 
decide what will work best for your conference. 

Be sure and include exhibitors in conference activities. 
Give them a free limcheon and continental breakfast. Many 
will have door prize give-aways which are attractive to atten- 
dees. 

Doorprizes 

Giving away doorprizes to conference participants is, of 
course, optional. Sometimes it works well and other times not 
so well. Here you must know your audience. Use doorprizes 
at the end of the conference to hold attendees or use them on 
a daily basis to ensure attendance in the exhibit hall. 

If the conference is regional, you might want to ask 
each state to bring an article representative of their state for 
doorprizes. This will work well as long as all prizes are of 
equal value. 

Good luck! 



72 



