ae 


CONTENTS. 


Leading Artloles:— 

- Ours Native Police.: 

The Formosan Lottery... 

The Fature of Wei-hai-wei. , ne 
The Japanese Resident-General in Korea. }. 
The Finsociat .abd Economic Annaal of 

id a 


.. Japan 7 

Paternal Legislation. 

Telegrams:— i, 

~ Smuggling of Arms. 

“_, Marquis so Stoned, 
Marquis lio in Korea, 
The German Mail Reon, | 


“ -Chineso Posts. 
co Colliery Explosion. 
' Meetings 
* Sanitary Board. 
Legislative Council. 
Hongkong General Chamber of Commerce, 


Logal! Intelliganco :— 

| The Lat Hing Bank Case. 
Tho, Li Shing Case. 

Claim for Rent. : 
Claim for Lauoch Hire, 
Breach of Contract.. ” 
Uncompleted Land Sale 
; Baokruptcy. eat 
. Special Criminal Sessions. 

“A Lazy Diver. ; 

Polioo, : ; 
A-Macao Banker, eA 
Dead European found in the Harbour, 
Trade Competition. 

The Rula of the Road. 
_ Coroner's Inquiry. 
| Alleged Manslaughter. 

- Dishonest through Drink. 
Furious Driving. ore 
The Drowned European. 
Quarrel in 2 Chinese Theatre. 

_ Tenants at Loggerheads. 
Messrs: Butterfield & Swi 
An Unruly Woman.. 

_ Neighbours in Court. 7a 

| | A Prisoner's Escape. : 


. 
/ Miscellaneous Articles and Reports :— 
Leighton Hill Road Outrage. 
Remaval of Ceilings, : 
Limewashing acd Cultures for Bacteria, 
‘4Suburbat Buildings. f 
. Arts and Crafts Exhibition. 
Refuse Destructor for Hongkong, 
A Scientific Tour. . 
Another Building Collapse. » 
. West Point Buildings, 
Police Recreation Club, 
Property Sale. 
Cement Plant Sold, 

' An Obsiteperous Canton Pony, 

: Chinese Woman Commits Suicide. 
The Dumbarton Salved, 
Canton U.S. Consul-General. 
Tvew Scaton Tea, - we wis hn 

“ The Swatow-Chao-chow-fur Railways : 

. ‘The, Tung-an Outrage. me ee gs 

* Earthquake at Manila, ; 

U. S."frasport AfeClellan. : 
Consumption of Beer in North China. 
Britigh Squadron at Saseho. : ' 
The NV.KJs Fleet, - 

The Japanese Government [ron Foundry. 
The Control of Geisha. 

Japan and Manchuria. 

The Rising in Korea. © - . 
Hunghuires in Manchuria, ¢ 
Japan Stgnr Refining Company. 

. Foreiga Masters and Japanese Ships, 
The Sale of Foreign Steamers. 


u 


it 


h 


re Summoned. 
Re 


Yarn Market. 
Exchange, 
Opium. 


pee Local and General. 
ae BIRTH. | 
1. On the tgth June; at Shanghai, the wife of 
: 5. GOLDSTEIN, of a son.. ; . 
j te i. DBAYHS. 
Op the 6th May, at Worthing, England, 
ELIZAneIX HIRT, widow of William Birt (late 
‘| of Shanghai), aged 68-years, : : 
On ‘the s7th June, at Shanghai, Brssiz 
- NaFTALy, the beloved wife of H. A. Naftaly 
aged 24 years. 7 : : 
' _ Qn tho2ged June, at Shanghai, Captain JOHN 
P; ROBERTS, aged 77 years, 


| Gre 
4 


fjongiong (Gelegeapt 


.. MAIL SUPPLEMENT, 
ISSUED GRATIS TO SUBSCRIBERS. 


————————_—— 
HONGKONG, SATURDAY, JUNE 30, 1906. 


_OPR NANVE POLICE, 
B a 
1° . Casth June.) 

_ Whena paternal Government sets out to 
enlist poligemen from the ranks of all 
comers amongst the natives ‘of an Eastern 
Colony,~policemen who are to be the 
+ future “guardians,of the peace,” the. main- 
tainers of “law and order,” the “ protectors 
of life'and property” of the inhabitants of 
~ that colony—putting, as theynecessarily have 
_ to'do, 60 much authority and power into the 
‘) fhanda of those: sellsame policemen, it be- 


way 


boves the Goveramegt ta: searchingly in- | 


- quire Ibto the ‘antecedents, dnd not only 
antecedents, but accestral history of the 
pplicants for the vacancies that must occur, 

in the natural order of things in the local 
‘Polite Force. Perhaps in no country, State 
‘or colony was such caution required as here 
fn: this Colony of ours, where crime is 
perennially ‘rampant, and where only the 
best material: should be: secured to fill the 
ranks of the. necestary native police force. 


t for ther object ofthese comments 
from: one ipollce station alone, within 

the’ idylefest - posible’ period, « three of 
the mimbers of the native police, swom'to 
fidelity to-.Qur: Sovereign. Lord: the King, 
nd (the “maintenance of tho psjecty of 
nenets ihe Jo 


| will be . worth, listening to. 


-Lat last been - published. 


the Law, ‘have had to take: thelr, places in 
the felon’s dock, to answer to most grave 
and serious charges. In one case an, Indian: 
constable was arrested for causing grievous 
bodily harm to a Chinese hawker aud was 
held for trial, pending the, result of. the’ 
victim's injuries. The man had to undergo 


“|‘anv operation, as a result of those injuries and 


eventually recovered, but the latter had, in 


| the meantime, “evaded the law” by dying 


of pheumonia. Shortly after that followed 
the case of one /ukong stealing a watch and 
other ‘articles. from a comrade:on. the force, 
for which he was imprisoned, which im- 
’ prisonment, we need hardly say, carries with: 
it dismissal from the Police Force. Finaliy 
comes the case reported on Friday in which 
a dnkong, from: the same station, was ‘con: 


| victed of receiving at least two: bribes from 


a hawker in the district, with a yiew' to in- 


| uence his conduct as a policeman, the man 


Being fined $roo on each count, with’ the 
usual alternative, ‘These are cascs that are 
known, because they are detected and the 
offenders brought to justice, and punished. 
But for the three thatare detected how many’ 
go undetected. It is not to say that because 
three evil-doers have been caught and rooted 
out of one station alone that there are not 
others in that same station, whose turn will 


come some day. But itis a serious matter 


for the public weal that the-native Police 
Force is in such condition that one police 
station alone can furnish no less than three 
delinquents from its ranks all within the 
space of a few weeks. Articles have ap 
peared time and again in. the local Press 
columns complaining of the inadequacy and 
inefficiency, of the Police Force in Hong- 
kong, and white we must be candid to admit 
there is a very great deal left to be desired, 
what, ‘we ask,” cin be done’ with such un- 
satisfactory, such unreliable, material, andi 
how can the Inspectors (the officers in- 
variably responsible for the .actyal police: 
work, and, who, as invariably, come io for 
the blame, when anything goes wrong, while 
receiving but very litle praise when all gocs. 
well) be expected'to do justice to themselves 
or totheir distficts? A more rigorous and 
svarching investigation into the antecedents 


‘| of would-be policemen is incumbent upon 


the authorities, for only so can they hope to 
secure a police force composed of material 
worthy ofthe mame. 5 ' c 


14 FORMOSAN LOLTERY. 


{26th June.) 

Quite recently a campaign, which is still 
vigorously waged, fas.started in the Philip- 
Pincs.againat tho evil .of-. public: gambling ~ 
and in dealing with the question .a Manila 
contemporary cited the. Macao lottery, con- 
‘ducted at some distance from the Philip: 
pincs, as one of the worst. factors contribut- 
ing to the gambling mania. The journal 
referred to in its strictures.condemns the 
lottery as being the means of taking away 
from the Philippines an‘ estimated sum of 
two to three hundred’ thousand pesos 
annually. ‘What the Afanila Times will 
have to .say-on the lottery’ promulgated 
by. the Insular: Government ‘of Formosa 
It may 
not be generally .known that the long- 
talked-of fottery; scheme .in question has 
On the 13th 
instant the following Jaw relating ta the 
lottery was promulgated by the Governor 
General of the island :-—“ Article I.—The 
Goveriiment of Formosa is suthorised to 
issue lottery tickets for the construction of 
public works in connection with charity; 
health, and the maintenance of shrines. The 
regulations mecessary for. the issue of the 
lottery tickets shall be determined by the 
Governor-General of Formosa.” “ Article 
IL—The Governor-General of Formosa is 
‘authorised ‘to prohibit the purchase and 
sole of lottery tickets which are not issued in 
conformity with the provisions of the pre- 
ceding article.” ‘That the recourse to such 
a measure for the raising of public funds 
should énlist but little sympathy goes with- 
out saying, and, in giving the proclamation 
publicity in a recent issue of the /apan 
Chronicle, the editor observes: “ While this 
method of raising revenue may be considered, 
advisable on account of its simplicity from 
the Japanese point of view, it cannot be 
-said to be good policy for a State to gamble 
with its subjects. It will also be seen that 
a State monopoly is created in Formosan 
lotteries by the second article of the pro- 
clamation printed above. Such a: mode of 
raising funds for public works is certainly not 
conducive to morality, and may lead to the 
spread of a custom which is capable of in- 
flicting great harm upon the people as a 
whole.” It has since been learnt from a Tokio 
dispatch that the money raised from the lot- 
tery will- be devoted to the construction of 
water-works and drainage-systems in various 
citjes in Formosa, for the relief and educa- 
tion of. orphans and other destitute children; 
and the formation of a school for the blind 
and dumb. Water-works, it.is stated, will 
be first constructed in Taipeh. ‘The lottery 
tickets will be sold exclusively in Formosa, 
Amoy, Foochow, and other places in South 
China nearest Formosa. ‘The principal aim 
of the lottery, continues the dispatch, isto 
prevent the exodus of money from Formosa 
to South China to be inyested in lottery 
tickets sold there, and at the-same time to 
absorb money ‘from’ South China. The“ 
tickets are not to be issued in-Japan,* By 
"places in South China” wherefrom money 
is to be absorbed for the benefit of the Go- 
vernment of Vormosa, it may .be presumed 
that Pereroey be found a prolific field 
te exploit; and by the activity and enterprise, 
‘jRegitimate though it be, of the numerous 
sub-agencies which are bound to arise {n the 
‘Colony.and probably also inthe Philippines, 
ithe Formosan lottery is sure to find a much. 
‘more extended’ field wherein’ to ‘Aourish 
ioe wean nm ae tthe 


‘ SATURDAY, 
beyond tlic circumscribed limits defined by 
the proclamation. creating the Jatest mono- 
poly for the Ggvernment of Formosa, 
THE FOTORE OF WELHALIVEL 

: __ eo 

ot (27th June.). 

Under the above caption, Me. Herbert 
L.''Beer, of : the Wei-hai-wei” 
writes us under date June 19: . Rumours 
concerning -the future of | Wel-hai-wei- 
have’ been in’ ‘circulation for some, time, 
and latterly cven ‘details “purporting to 
be the terms on which H. M. Government 
as prepared to hand over the Territory have 


been published, These rumours are. ap-’ é 


parently from Chinese sources and’ have 
generally appeared firstin the native press. 
It would appear that they obtain consider-. 
sable ctedente with foreigners ; and this, too, 
in spite of official statements td the contrary. 
Mr. Runelman, replying on behalf-of the 
Secretary of State for Foreign’ Affairs to.a 
question in the House of Commons, said: 
“It is not considered that ‘the transfer of 


the Russian lease of Port Arthur to Japan |’ 


has made any change in the “present status. 
of} Wei-hai-wei, which is leased to His 


Majesty's Government, and’no action is at: 


present contemplated, with regard to the 
lease.” ToBrdinary people accitstomed to 
plain English this public declaration of the 
‘Government's position in. regard to the 
question would seem to indicate that Great 
Britain intends to’retain possession: of Wei- 
hai-wei till the present lease ‘terminates, 
ie, for 17 years—if not longer. . His 
} Honour, the Commissioner of Wei-hai- 
wel, 
the real. facts, have also been apptoach- 
ed- on the subject, and,.the writer has 
received the Commissioner's permission to 
state positively that the question of the 


rendition of Wei-lai-ci to China has not | 


arisen, and that the statements on the point,. 
which have been so persistent of late in the 
press, are entirely unfounded. His Honour, 
the Commissioner, recently went, vid Tsing- 
tau, to the provincial capital. According 
to the. reports published in the European 
press, from Tientsin. to - Hongkong, there 
was a twofold object in this journcey—(1) 
to arrange: for the rendition of Webhai-wei, 
(2) to conclude negotiations about an im- 
portant railway ~ concession. + His Honour 
authorises me to state that. both these 
reports are absolutely untrue, and that he 
undertook the journey metely: in order'to 
pay friendly visits to: the Governor of Tsing: 
fau and to the Governor of Shantung, the 


latter of whom visited the Commissioner. at | : 
AVei-hai-wei ‘Tist, summer: “Tt is satisfactory | p! 


to be able to contradict so emphatically the 
extraordinary and damaging reports that have 
been* current regarding the political future 
of England’s newest Eastern possession. 


TUK JAPANESE RESIDENT. 
GUNERAL-IN KORKA 


a 

Through the columns ‘of our Japanese 
contemporaries the report has been 
circulated that Marquis Ito (thé hostile 
demonstration against. whom’ in Seoul was 
- reported by telegram yesterday) “is about to 
resign the Residency-General-in Korea. 
lt was believed that Marquis Ito had 
been contemplating ‘resignation. now. for 
some time and his recent protracted sojourn 
in Tokio was for the purpose of arriving at 


an understanding with the Elder Statesmen’ 


and other statesmen on the subject. A 
Kobe contemporary, commenting on the 
unofficial news, recalls that some months 
ago there was considerable friction among 
the Elder Statesmen over the question of the 
power to be vested in the Resident-General. 
Field-Marshal Yamagata, head ofthe mili- 
tary parly, contended that no civil official 
‘should have authority over the military power 
and favoured the appointment of General 
Count Katsura, the late Premier. Marquis 
Ito was, of ‘course, totally opposed to the 
policy of. Marquis Yamagata, and. con- 
tended , entirely for a civil  administra- 
tion and favoured the‘ authority. of the 
civil power over that of the military. 
" But whatever the causes which have led 
to the reported resignation of Marquis Ito, 
it is most unfortunate,” observes.the Chrons: 
cle, “for Japanese government in the 
peninsula that dissension in high quarters 
‘should become known at the present time, 
with Korea in a state of mild insurrection, 
What effect the news of the resignation will 
have dn the’ Korean, excited by the insurrec- 
tionary movement,’ it is not easy to foretell, 
but it will. be surprising if the difficulties of 
the Japanese administration do not increase 
three-fold as: the result, and the pacification 
of the Koreans made a harder task than 
ever." The Kobe journal, with its usual 
enterprise, obtained an interview with Mar- 
quis Ito on the 2oth inst, . Interrogated first 
as té the-rumours of his pending resignation, 
‘Marquis Ito said to the C/ivonicie representa- 
tive that the report was a complete fabrjca- 
tion, He did not thibk anyone withed him to 


resign, and personally he would not dream of | 


doing so until the stability of the country 
was osured for the future. He wished 
to remain in Korea+ to catry out the 
whole programme’ of. reforms..which it 
was desired to effect.. From our special 
telegram from Shanghai to-day, ‘it | will 
be noted that the retum of the Marquis 
to Seoul ‘has worked as a charm ‘on 
the Koreans .who, apparently, at once 
calmed ,down, and through . the’ personal 
influence of Marquis Ito with the Emperor 
have forthwith adopted legislation calculat- 
ed to, promote the: interests of the peo- 
-ple of the Hermit Kingdom, Reference 
is made in the telegram to'the mining Jaw. 
On this subject bis- Excellency: made an, 
important ‘statement: to. the - Kobe . inter- 
Viewer,” He sald: 4’ ney sainjeg lay, eas 


r Pe 


School, | 


and others in*a position to know |’ 


Lzometime ago 


b 
Tse, 


to be: promulgated, conferring equal; 
lights ahd “privileges Upon. persons of all: 
nationalities engaged. in: -inining: in the 
Peninsula’: The Resident-General humour- 
ously referred.to this riéw law as the. ‘open: 
door” to, the mines,” A-drakt. of the new: 
‘roining.law bad .been, submitted: to, the: 
Korean: G@ernment,. which had. approved. 
of it with the exception ‘of one ‘small. point, 
dnd this would be amicably seitled upop. his. 
arrival. in. Korea. “It has since been. con- 
summated.. : 


tHE FINANCIAL AND ECON 
NNUAL OF. JAPAN. 
“(28th June.) —~ 


ay : 
.© Bilef: acknowledgment was. made: in’ our 

issue on Tuesday of the yeat-book for ‘1906 

of the Department of-Financo controlled by: 

M.-Y. Sakatant, the “Japanese. Finance 
to whose courtesy wo. owe the re- 

of the.“ Sixth Financial and 


about 


published the other day from o 
éorrespondent, statigg... that 
Government. ‘ had <intiniated to " the 
‘Waiwupu: that: arrangements “would be 
‘made. ‘to prohibit. the exportation - of. 
British. manufactured imorphia ‘to China, 
provided that :the Chinese Government 
undertook to -prevent.the «manufacture . of | 
native morphia and the, importation of the 
drug from other countries... ‘The WaiWapu 
has agteed to these. conditions, with the're- 
sult that the first step has been taken to- 
wards the restricting of the opium habit. 
‘The logica) sequel to this measure of reform. 
in. the. Ipdo-Chinese . opium trade must 
naturally/le an extension. of the scheme to 
those British.colonics in whjch the majority 
of the population is Chinese. Forit would be. 
absurd to expect shat through the ‘instra- 
mentality of the Indian’ Government the’ 
Chinese in Canton were: restricted in their 
indulgence in the opium habit, while their 
friends in’ Hongkang and Singapore suffered 
no such restriction. -The opium evil certain- 
ly exists but it cannot be eradicated by Act 
of Parliament, for the devotee will as certain- 
ly obtainthe drug in ‘one form or another as 
the debstichee will obtain alcohol. More- 
over, the opium trade is of immense con- 
sequence to these colonies in the Far East, 
for the greater part of their revenue is de- 
rived from the mohopoly which is farmed 
out. To impose a check on the consump- 
tion of opium would create a very serious 
situation, and probably enormously enhance 
the cost of living in this part -of the world. 
There is no doubt, however, that what may 
‘be termed the’ moral’ regenerators: are ‘in 
power at home, and whether: they can in- 
‘fluence the Colonial legislatures to interfere 
with the Opium Farms remains to be séen, 
The resolution moved in Parliament was 
carried, 80 that we may be prepared for any 
development along the lines indicated. 

& Rohe RR eA RR : 


TELEGRAMS. 


budget for the current financial year, 
teu‘10" the: Imperial Diet: in January: 
last and’ subsequently approved by both 
Houses. The aggregate annual revenue and 
expenditure, ‘it ‘is’ ascertained, ‘amount to’ 
Yen 494,704,707 3 and on ‘comparing the 
‘estimates. for the year with those for the 
preceding year, we. find in the ordinary te- 
venue an incressa.of Yen 21,460,000, ‘The 
increase in the ordinary _exptnditure ; 
amounts te Yen 161,300,009 if we deduct ———o———— 
from the Budget of the preceding year the “ HONGKONG TELEGRAPH” 
sum of Yen 31,150,000, the estimated SERVICE, - : 
amount of the military and naval expendi- . . 

ture. It may not be generally known that. SMUGGLING OF ARMS 
from a financial point of view in Japan tht a fp ae : 
state of war is considered to still continue in INTO CHINA.” |: 
wistence. - For although the war- has at ae aass ‘ 
length been brought to a termination, a huge 
amount. of. extraordinary expenses will be} - 
required before the withdrawal of the Japan- |". 
ese forces from the theatrc*of war. ‘The 
tolal. public loans connected with the war 
exceed yen -1,700,000,000. This amount is 
three times the total amount of loans prior 
to! the ottbreak. of the war and is consi- 
dered an unprecedented burden upon the 
State,’ ‘As the magnitude of the expenses 
in connection with the war naturally increns- 
ed the bruden upon the nation,” the Finance 
Minister observes that “the Government 
considered it necessary to curtail the general 
andval account; and, accardingly, most new 
undertakings were postponed,” and’ every 
possible economy otherwise effected. Con- 
cluding the explanatory observations in re- 
gard to this section, it ss remarked that the 
general economy of Japan, although more 
or less affected at the opening of. hostilities, 
has throughout maintained a favourable con- 
dition, and thére exist no causes likely here- 
after to affect to any extent the even course of 
the general econdmy of the Empire. 

_ ‘en 


. APUREHENSIONS AT ‘PEKING. 


oe 


VIGIAANCE TO NE EXERCISED. 
f 


(Arom. Our Own " Correspondent.) 


Shanghai, 25th June, 
2.15 p.m.. 


ammunition is exertsking the concern 
of the Authorities at Peking. 
“The Constabulary Board is alarm- 
ed at the enormous quantities of 
arms and ammunition ‘that are now 
known to have been surreptitiously 
amugeled into the.interior of China. 
It'is ascertained that the nefarious 
-traffic ia the work of the numeroug 
secret societies oxisting at the Treaty 
Ports, ee 
' ‘The Imperial Government has-di- 
rected the Provincial ‘Authorities to 
oxercisa the strictest. vigilance. 


: ee 
MARQUIS-1T0-S1 ONED. 
ON THE WAY TO SEOUL. 


+,» PATERNAL * LEGISLATION. - 
A Pg ne ae 
» From the debates which have taken’ place 
in the British House of Commons it is quite 
clear that a large section of the Liberal party ’ 
is thoroughly‘in favour of abolishing the |: 
Indian opium trade with China, and is deter- 
miged to bring about that conditioif despite 
all| financial considerations. A resolution 
wat submitted to Parliament on the 3oth of 
May by a private member to the effect that |/ 
the House “reaffirms its conviction that the 
Indo-Chinese opium trade is morally inde- 
fenpible and requests His Majesty's Govern- 
pal to take such stepsas may be necessary 
for bringing it to 2 speedy close.” - It was 
argued. that under the Treaty of Tientsin, | 
1828, the Chinese were compelled to admit 
opium through the treaiy ports, subject to's 
duty of gotacls per picul, and that was tanta- 
| mount to a Aegrant violation of all moral 
rinciples. A Royal ‘Commission was’ ap- 
Pointed to collect: ices ‘on the subject 
and it publithed five volumes 
dealing with the Indo-Chinese tfaffic, but Its 
conclusions were influenced by the executive 
Government of India—at least, such was.the 
allegation of the’ opium: reformers, Of 
, it ig a simple matter for Irrespon- 
Sthusiasts to propound: schtmes for fi 
‘amelioration -of -the:human’ race ata} ” Tho’ a 


—— 


"POLITICAL MOTIVES SUSPECTED. 


é [From Our Own Correspondent.) ... 


* —a * ’ 7 
Shanghai, 26th June, © 
Pee ee Fe ae ee 
While journeying to Scoyl, stones 
werd thrown by Koreans af the trath 
occupied by: Marquis Ito. 
Marjuis Ito ‘yos,not hurt... - 
Tt is sugpectéd that political mo. 
tives prompted tho act_of hostility. 


" MARQUIS-110 IN KOREA. § 
"SALUTARY EFFEOTS OF HIS. , 
See ARBTURNG by 


: ‘ADOPTION : OF .DENEPICIAL LAWS, : 


| [Frome Our Own “Correspondent. a4 


> Shavghai, 274i June, 
AS EBB am, 


 TEBb a, 
Marq 


enthusiasts 
“ return of y ‘th 
Jopareso’ Resident-General in“ Korea, 


‘moment's notice, but a condition of affairs 
‘which fins. prqvalled for decades. cann 


‘he clandestine trade in arms and |. 


) Medburst,'H. 


Commigte@felt'at 


re: 
by 


had, tho - 
bi eee Basie ee 

" “Fhore is evidence -that the. rebel 

idus spirit inthe country is prompt 

n ‘thie advice of the 

Uesident-Genoral, -haye immediately: 

idopted the emigration and mining 


1p 


‘REPAIRS'COMPLETED. 
[From Our Own Correspe yent] Ts ek 
s Shanghai, 97th Jude, 
yo LB ake" 

; The ropairs to the German Mail - 
sleamér-Jidou, stranded in Tsushima ~ 
Straits Inst month, have. beea-com-'' * 
pleted. | : rn Goite eS 
Foon will forthwith’ resume 


~The : 
her service on tlie ND, L. ling, ace. st 
cording to amended schedule. fa 8 


CHINESE POSTS... 


PROPOSED CHINESE COM? | 
" SMISSIONER, « 


FOREIGN POST OFFICES. TO DE AUOLISIED 
. ‘ ee en oe 3 
| [From Our Own Cornspondent] ~~ 


:20th Jane, ° 
Jest t 6 72.96 pm." 

The Chineso Government, it is re- 
ported, has decided to appoint ‘a 
Uhinese - Postal -Commissioner,. who. 
will carry on the system - of" Post: - 
Offices established by" Sir Robert. 
Hart. He gy 7 a 

The ‘ Conimjssioner, .it,'is added, 
will attempt to abolish tho Post | - 
Offices and postal servides ut present 
controlled hy tlie various Powera'in - 
China, and undortake the entire work 
of collecting and distributing postal 
matter in-Chinese territory... © 


b : *. Shanghai 


COLLIERY EXPLOSION. 
_ SERIOUS LOSS OF LIFE, os 
FIVE KILLED AND EIGHTEEN INJURED. 

[From Our Uwn Correspondent . 7 


- SHanghai, 29th Juno, 
: . 2.25pm i". . 
- News hos just arrived to the effect * 
that a serious explosion has dcourred 
in a ‘colliery at Fukuokg,.’.. ; 
_ Five miners were ‘tilled outright ~~ 
and ‘eighteen injured, | one 


HONGKONG GENERAL CHAMBER 
OF CQMMHRCE. 
—_——o 


Minutes ofa monthly njecting of. tho Geteral : ; 


Committee ofthe Hongkgns General Chamber “2. +. 


‘| Hewett 


chairman), Hon. Mr. W. J, Greygon, 3 
A. Haupt, H, E.R. Hunter, ‘D, Re Law, G, Hy 
“E. Tomkins ad& A, R. Lowe, 

(secretary), : cee ee ek ee 
‘v) NEW MEMBERS OF/COMMITTER,/ ” 
The Chgirmanéxpreised the ‘pleasure the 

A - Grenton being able to 
oid them and at Mr, Hunter's acceptance of. , 
ice during the absente of Mr. Smith 


a 2 ay INTER oe 
, The miniles of:tho mobthly meeting: held 
os the oth olifmo and‘of the special meeting 
hold on ‘tho sth tei ro stad and : 
firmed... >”: : : f 


| NEW ZEALAND INTERNATIONAL EXHIDITION, . * 


correspondence was recorded: 
Colonial ne Moyet ae 
I 


to, tho], 
0 


"THE HONGKONG. TELEGRAPH SATURDAY. JUNE 30, 


ep - New Zeatand International Extubjtion, which | an opportunity of expréssing an opinion-on thé] Witness: But f mivst make accounts, Con- HisHonour: Then you had-better do so, | Some of them wenr to sea what was the matter,.| - A. LAZ¥ DIVaR, 
is being held at Christchurch, during the period © subject. : _ +. | tinging, witness -said he had -considerable | and do it to-morrow, - : and they found deceased lying on the deck, ae * : 
: CURRENCY QUESTION, «- with tho prisoner. stagding over him, and | , 


property. He owned the. Connaught Hotel. |} Witness, continuing, said ha“aever owned 
¢ paid $255,000 in sqoo far it, Now it was | any shares. in a cigar factory in .Pokfoolam 


" . of November, 1996, and April, 1997... oe i 
‘ Mr. Gow ‘ie visttin Fonghona with the RAN AWAY FROM WORK, a 
object of induging the Cdveratnent of that Port : 
to take partin the Exhibition by making o 
representative exhibit of the «rts, Products, 
and Manufactures of Hongkong. At.‘ the 
J . game time, Mr. Gow will also interview manu- 
z ‘ ' * faeturers and exporters, with the same objsct. 
ne gs ‘ [shall be much obliged if your Excellency | 
Bo, will grant your kind offices to assist Mr. Gow 
.: . : aod to introduce him to the proper authorities, 
; to enable himto successfully carry out the work 
connected with.his appoiniment, “Any assist- 
F ance you may be able to render him will be very 
pos ay niuch appreciated.—{ haye &c., ie 
: ; (Syd), G. Warp, 
p. Premier. 


covering him with’ a blanket, and preventing 
anyone from coming near them. Mr, Whiting; 
who was, in change of the coolies, was then 

fd on going to the spor he’ found. the 


Correspondence with the Star Ferry Com- 
pany, Linited, andthe Shanghal ‘Chember'ol worth $410,000, or $420,000. It was valued | Road; he promised to take some, but did not 


Conimerce was rend and ipproved. at “more now. becauto he formerly let.out | xlo so. - : , 

LATE DELIVERY OF MANCHISTER GOODS, | | the lease at $1,835 per ‘month, and the map Who wete the partners in tlie business ? 
‘The following letter with enclosure was released it for $2,600 per month. That tdonotremember, |. 
readi—, - ep : included the whole premises and tha shops {- Come, come, you must remember. : 
Liverpool Chainber 6§:Gommerce,’ © | below. . He had a mortgage on that ‘property. | .. Well, [ know who the partners were when the 
: .. Liverpool, gth April, 1906, | He also had property in Cnine Road, and be. business started, but E don't know if thay sold, 

Dear Sit,—1' enclose ‘extract [rom a- letter had shares in property ia Bonhgm Strand. All or transferred theit shares, - : 
recgived at this Chamber from a member, on | these properties were very heavily mortgaged. | - That is simply quibbling. i" 
the’nbove namdd subject, § - He did'nat keep any account books, except for | © Well, if you wantme to speak out, you must 

I should be glad if you would kindly tet me | his house property. He had received several.| give me time to think ; you must not force me. 
know the,views of, your Chamber with regard hundred thousand dollars for bis mortgages Witness, continuing, snid one partner was a 
to ‘the proposal referred “to by my corres: during the-last few years. Lut he had no ac: | “* Mok Somebody's son"; he did not know the 
pondent—I am, &.,” counts to show what had become of the money. | others: . . 

(Sgd.), THomas W. BaRrkey, He remembered it. --He had now made out Mr. Harston:; When, you executed. the 


: Ip Summary Jurisdiction this ‘morning, his 
called, & Honour My, A, G. Wise, Puisna Judge, presid- 
“)anan lying dead, with two stab-wounds on his | ing, E. Gibson, sied T, 5, Morton, for the os 
brenst in the region of the heart. No knife | recovery of the sum of $1,000, money enusited. 
could be fund, and it was presumed that, the for work to bo done by the defendant for the ©. °"! 
prisoner had thrown it overboard, The pri-} plaintiff. ey ae ee eee 
soner was then placed ander. arrest, and he The plaintiff stated that in January, 1903, he" ». 
inde a confession that he did the stabbing '| entered into an agreement, duly signed and ex- oe 
as the result of agjuorrel, During the voyage | Scuted, with the defendant for the removal of 
up from Durbangit was alleged that there had the wrecked-s.s, Zakshak, Plointif paid de- ©” 
been some friction between the prisoner and | feadant in’ advance $1,099. Subsequently he 

the deceased over soms money disputes, and | found that the work had been suspended, or, 

‘| this culminated on the 18th inst. wheo the | in fact, nothing had been done, and the de- 
‘prisoner once again demanded from the de- fendant had run away, and left the work, °° 
censed the payment of certain moneys which | His Houour; What did Horan away for? |, 


His Excellency Sir M. Nathan, K.C.MUG., ee ; Secretary. an account, . : mortgage in favour of your daughter-in-law 
. Uong kong. ‘The Secretary, Chamber of Commerce, _ Mr. Wakeman: Then why did you not give | were you solvent? Jy Ns ; ‘were long due to him. Dec: Aged refused to] . Plaintiff: Because be was lazy, 1 suppose, 
~t. ' 1" Hongkong Chamber of Commerce, Hongkong. it to me? . ; . Yes, 1 was solvent. ve . | pay the amount demanded, and a considerable | my ‘Lord. : : ; . , : 
. ; ' ayrd May, -1926. , [Batract}. Witness: I only finished it erday. You | © “hat isthe date of the mortgage ? amount of argunient ensued, the prisoner even- |. The case being proved, judgment wis given 
, Sir,—1 am instructed lo acknowledge the HINA LATHE DaLiNnRe OF GGoiscir spoke to me about my private fanhly expenses, The roth May, 1935, . ‘| ually offering a considerable rebate if the | for plaintiff with costs. . 
. “receipt of-your letter of r8th instant with en- |. na af b : and, of course, 1 could not remember that, | His Honour: He could not have been} deceased would pay him a porsion to enable : ‘ 
toa MANUFACTURERS. .- His Yonour: No; {don't suppose you can. | solvent then. « ; him tojein-‘ina gambling game then in pro- 


closu arding (he proposed New Zealand i ; MO a2 a : Spee oe 
; Teetnatenal Eshibition ae be held at Christ- " At the present ine the law here doess not (Lauyhter.) Nr Harston: I put it to you. that this | gress, Deceased refused to make the payment MESSRS. BOTTI EREELD AND 


+ : church between November, 1996, and ‘April admit of any compensation far yoods* iate "When.he was with Datly & Co. he drew as | montage was intended as a fraud?” J and, instead, drew aknile, and threatened the q ee 7 
an ae: ne 1g07, oe De against contract, but we waderstand that some ‘salary $30. month at first, avd was “receiving Witness : Lt was not; b was solvent, for if.) } prisoner, who then swing round and stabbed s WIRE SUMMONED. : ‘ 
: merchints in Manchester are taking this mat: | $420. mdénth when the firm wound up.. He | soll my property | could pay off ail my debts. - the-deceased in the breast with the deceased's ae 


f My Committee are of opinion that there is > } : : : : es 5 
“ i signed for $450 but he gave $50 to his partner. |‘ Were you nol engaged in blockade-running kuife. The facts would be borne out by the | ALLEGED ONSTRUCTION OF MURRAY PIDR. 


barely sufficient time in which to make arrange- | ter up, 05 under present conditions the ‘tempt Q y : 
mente for sending under Government supervi-, ation is open to unscrupulous manufacturers Mr. Wakemie : Howdid you use fhe moncy? | duting the late war 2 . 5 ea +] witnesses fe would call and it would be for the iG 

4 ; gion an adequate assortment of yoads which; andothers to delay godds in order to sel! to iiness:: To pay off the interest?” . Uyou make inquiries and find that I was | jury to consider whether it was a case of mur- At the ‘stra 

: H ve # ‘ : Lam willing to have my head chapped aff. der or manslanghter. . Magistracy this afternoon, before, Mr. 


FLAS Aazeland, Messrs, Butterfield and Swire 
were Summoned on remand by the police for 
obstructing Murray Pier on the 19th instant 
with theirlauaches Zaf Koo Fuk, Acolus, Sin 
Tat Koo, and Tat Koo, ‘The owners of the 
launch Aforning Post were also summoned for 

a similar offence, : ee 
» Mr. GC. C, Master, of Messrs. Johnson, , 
‘Stokes and Master, appeared on behalf of - 
Messrs. Butterfield and Swire, while the cox-- 
swain of the Aforning Post was undefended. 

P. C, 61, sworn, said at 2.45 6.m.. on the roth 
nstant, he wis on duty in Coanaught Road 
Central, when he saw the launch Morning Post 
lying off Murray Pier, ae 2 

‘Mr. Master said that he was not going to: 
produce any evidence to challenge that of the 


His Honour: The debts on your mortgages ? 
Witness: No, interest on business debts, 
‘Wig Honour: ‘Did you'ever.do business with 
Port Arthur? be : 
‘Witness: Now, |. es 
nat during the-war?+No, 3, : 
Witness said he was now living with a friend 
who waskeeping him.” z . 
Mr. veacon, who appeated foF another cre- 
ditot, cross-examined witness regarding the 
properties he owned, Witness saidihe Con- 
naught House was his own, no oneelse had any 
interest in it, In his statement he had return- 
ed his assets at $33,020 over his liabilities, ~ 
Mr. Deacon: «re you sure there will be a 
surplus? = : 
Witness: “Tam not sure, but 1 hope so. 
Mr. Deacon: -If you paid $295,000 for the 
Connaught Hotel in tg00, howcan you value it 
now atover four lakhs of dollars when property 4 
has gone down in value? ; ee 
* Witness: I calculated from the increase in: 
rent, 


advantage to others ona ‘rising market, We 
are informed that it. is proposed that one 
months ytace should be allowed, but if over 
one month apenalty of 5 )f ad.valorem should 
peexacted, “Ve think if the Hongkong, Man: |. 
chester, Liverpool’.and Bradford’ Chambers 
would come to some decision on this poiat, -it 
might be possible lo institule the clause ‘we 
have mentioned. ie . 
“We sliall be glad of your apinion an this 
subject.” Peg oan me 
The Secretary reported that a circular I¢tter 
had been issued embodying the above to the 
_piece goods firms and several replies had heen 
received in favour of the!propos.l, but infimat- 
sag that it hardly went far enough. re 
Al was decided to form a sub-commitiee com- 
posed of representatives of some of the firms 
inustly intetested 10 sce whether some work- 
able salution could not be arrived’at. 
This concluded the business. before ‘the 
meeting. § °° ae 


Pt would thoroughly represent tie trade of the Coe 
' lany at this Exhibition, but they considor it ad-- 
visable thatthe Registrar-General shouldexpiain 
to the Chinése Guilds and Merchants the 
‘advantages to be derived from being’ properly 

‘represcuted thereat, as. 

‘ ‘ Upto the present there is no ditect “trade 
between the (wo Colonies fram this end ; but, 
cap , its there aten number of Chinese resident in 

New-Zealand, doubtless a stimulus: would be 
given co this Colony's export such as bamboo, 
basket, pewter, brass, foadstuffs, ivorics, lacquer, 

w OH, silk “and silver‘ anticles, if the Chinese 

od interested in these productiuny can be induced 

Ba & to Send exhibits to forma small courl. 

I may state that a circular os being issued to 
members.of this Chamber directing attention ta 
ue the fact ofthe represeutative of the cw Zealand 

Kxhibition being now in the’ Colony, and his 

willingness to enter into negotiatiuns with 

ne Sy _ intending exhibitors;—1 have, &c., 

: ve (Sed) ALR, Lows, 


One ofthe witnesses who had given evidence 
at the pleliminary trial, Dr. L. W. Cock, medical 
officer of the s.s, Jrdravelll, being now tooill to 
attend Court, Dr, Bell, resident. surgeon of the 
Jovernment Civil Hospital, was called to testify 
to the inability of Dr. Cock to attend. 

Dr. Lawless, chief medical superintendent’ 
of the 38, /adravelli, spoke to viewitg the 
body and finding two'wounds in the-thorax, 
either of which alone would have beca suffi- 
clint to cause death, In his opinion there 
‘were present no other conditions from which 
death would have been likely to occur. Death, 
in his dpinion, -was due, to the slab-wounds 
alone, There were no other marks of violence 
on the body. F His cid not hold a hast cai 
examination of the body, as he considered the | ¢ Ps. soul wo! ‘ 
cause of death sufficiently obvious without that. Caiepene: fal bane pd = 

Mr, Whiting, the superintendent of: the | dock there was no place for Messrs, Butter- 
| returning coolies, spake to finding the body, of | feld ‘and Swire’s launches to lie unless they go 
the deceased lying ov deck and prisoner stand: | over to Kowloon, which was very inconvenient. 
ing by him, and trying to hide the wounds, and |, Continuing, witness said that together with) ow 


‘The cross-examihation was continued, 

RE WONG SAU 12 AND CHEUNG KUN PAK,‘ 
exfarle WONG CHEUNG 0}, CREDITOR, | 
Mel F. X_ d'Almada ¢ ‘Castro appeared for 

Chiu Pun Fak, and Mr. C.F. Dixon, of Mr, 

John Hastings’ office, appeared for a partner in 

the firm Wong sau Ku while Mr R. a. Hard: 

‘ing appeared for (he other partners. 

_ wis Honour; [suppose you have all re- 

ceived copies of the report? : 
Mr. Wakeman; No, my Lordthere bas not 

heen time to furnish copies. 
Mic. @Almada ¢ Castro : Perhaps the Official 

Receiver might give us the gist of t now. 

His Honour: f dgn't think he can do that; 
hehad betterreadity ge) % 

The report was read. * “ 

Mr, daAbmada ¢, Castro sald: bis client was 
simply « dormant partner in the business, and 
ever at any time took any active part in the 
business, and he would therefore ask that the 


ip Secretary. an Fre = +. °_ J ordergas far. ashe was concerned, be suspended. 
eae ov . . : : 2 ‘ . ; a pended. | : 

Hon, ‘T. Sercombe Smith, ; CLAIM LOW WENT. Mr. Deacon: ut then, Sven so). maken ” Mr. Dixon said it was difficult to argue for keeping everyone from approachingy Saying | the Aforning ost were Messrs. Butterfield and . 

28 ~~ Coloniat Secretary ; eke eee BOA nothing like the difference you have sato 1. his client, but he would ask that the order that the deceased was. drunk. There was | Swire's four launches, They were lying off 
CIES : 8 WILL OF UXCHANGE STAMPS WocruNG @ ChUNG SnUN KOO; ~~ pris deaceres bar aa Bled his penton | be suspended for him Tur two months. . There’ blood on the prisoners hands, jackel and pants. | wurray Pier steps, and created an obstriction. 
The following correspondénce took: place a ¢ Mr. Deacon: And alter the receiving order sane connie ewan oe Lurd- Further Evidence ae siieis “Aeardineouto: Sac ecicas vinieon ee oe 

: : Colontal Secretary's Office: 2 q PS . oe 5 pr ship wishes to hear him ilcall him é At J t of the’ whari, 

olont t y ice, 25th inst. was .made on that petition you collected a His HonoursThat is for the Official Receiver borstion of the. above, and it was stated thal | | Mr. Master—Did you take out this summons 


; : ist May, 1906. ; 
Sir,—1 am directed fo state that a proposal’ 
has emanated from the Colonial Treagurer tha: 
fills of exchange from $10 to B250 should an 
: the future be stamped with an emnossed stam: 
a i on the original of a set and with an impressed 
. ... on the duplicate as in the case of cheques, and 
to invite in expression of opinion fram your 
‘ Chaniber on the praposal—] have &, ; 

< ; ve > (Spd), T. SERCOMRE SMITH, 


after the stabbing affray the coolies were mus- 
tered, and then it was found that one of the 
coolies, named “ Chan” was inissing, and bad 
‘not been seen since.: “ i 
Ching Ling, « Rand-mine interpreter, and a 


on your own initiative 7—No, 


In Original Jurisdiction’ this morning, his | month's rent for Connaught House? 
Was:a complaint mnde?—Yes, 3 | 


Honour Sir Francis Hiatt, Chief Justice, | Witness: Nog it was before that. 
presiding! judgment was given in the case in Mr, Deacon : No, no, 80 ; don’t tell any fies.” 
which Ho Cung, of © Idlewild,” Seymour Road, | The order was made on the 14th and you 
sued Chung Shun Koo, of Noa. ts,‘ Queen's collected the rent.on the 21st. * 

Koad Centiad, ‘for (1) ‘specific perlarmance of], Witness: I get my rentiin advance. I got 
anagreement of lease, and (2) lor the recovery | ‘it in May. d 

ol the sum. of $5,900, being the amount of | “Mr. Deacon: You know as well as 1 do 
aricars of tent ot Nu, 1g, Wes Vaux Road, due | that your rent is not duc until the arst of the. 
by the defendant to the plainuff. Judgment | month. c : 


lo say; 1. don’t want him: ‘ 
. Mr. Wakeman: I don’t want to ask himany 
questions, but ifhe has anything to say in ex- 
planation of his affairs you can call him. * 

Mr. Dixon then said that under these circum- 
stances he would not call him, but he would 
ask that he. be discharyed, the discharge to be. 
suspended for a reasonable time, 

His Honour said he would not give him his 


‘Whom by ?—The Commodore. 

Supposing the junks were not alongside the ~ 
t daunches at anchor would there not be reasop- 
passenger on the s.3, /adravelli, said be saw ‘ably free access to the ateps?—Yes, if the junks 
the prisoner trying to hide himself and the |.jad not. been there, then there would ba no 
deceased under a blanket, saying that the} obstruction, | - ¢ 
deceased was a great’ friend of his, and was] You have noticed junks frequently lying .. 
then very drunk. Quite near them was] ihere, havent: you?—Yes, they are eniployed::, 


if 48 Colonial Secretary. ween lee i eas . f . Coen discharge as the case was worse ityainst him‘ S , canal § 
' “The Secretary, Chamber of Cummerd : has already been Kiven on the paint of the | - A The, Official Receiver‘has the re- | thin apainst the others. pee a port, and it was open; it was quite large | hy Messrs Punchard, Lowther and-Compnoy,’ 
. Secretary, Chain bey specific performance in favour of the plainnff. | ceint ; they will show, : an aid thi _ . enough to allow a man to get through. How many have you' seen lying there at’ 
eae f Hongkony ae of Commerees: Mr. bk, H. Sharp, KC, imstructed by Mr: D. Mr, Deacon: You mean to say the tenants aie St ee oe te a The evidence for the prosecution having been | time PceAniiimies aaree abreast ae aad q 
xf agth May, 1936. + LV. steavenson, of Messis. Deacon, Laaker and | paid you the rent for May on the 5th May. j : : anaglOK | heard, the Attorney-General closed his case ; j : ix 
« Sin] am instructed lo inform youlthat you? | Deacon, appeared for the plaintiff, and Hen. Witness: 1 did not Ties ony {eee the | Parner amine firm, and he would suspend his | ong said he had meshing to add to what he had Ba aa ene a Esernaey int o 
jee ot ie 1a instast tnviing an expresso | Nhe tHe Pollock KcCy instructed by. Mi. M.[ tenants; T got i romihe lessees, | Gecharce afeother two iortwo yearay | *Wendy.stid in his opening address fo the Jury. rom hs Commodore) —Not a1 far as 1 Eno, 
of opinion on the proposal of the Coloni:: | J, D, Stephens, represented the defendants. Mr. Deacan: Don't play with wards. Biles Tih aEGeE iD KE vii Mr, Calthrop submitted that, on the evidence, Continuing, witness thought that as Messrs, “"¥ 


‘there was no Case to go before the jury. The 


, Uutterfield and Swire’s offices, have their . - 
only evidence was that of the man’s own ad- 


. Freasurerto substitute ao embossed stamp 


tile : His lordship said that he had previously | When did the lessee pay you. ¢ 
§ cents on the original and an impresse t j 


decided that plaintiff was entitled to judgment Witness: On the 5th May. " exparle THE CREDITORS: . * 


(rontages onthe waterfront it was reasonable 


o stamp of §cenis.on the duplicate of Bills cl [on the claim and delendant was cutitled to} | Mr. Deacon: Be careful, 1 have seen the Mr. H. K. Holmes appeared for the petition- mission,‘ out that ‘hadto be'takenns a whole] hat they should have their lau ib 
. F F : f : . ce : Pe : ; . : " : : aches w 
Exchange (rom $to to.$239 :nstead of 3 and * | jadgiment on the counter claim, the only | receipt and it is not dated 5th May. _ ing creditor, and asked thit the case be'ad- | with the evidence that he was assaulted and | easy hail... i hes within 


that it Was on account ok the assault that ho] |f there had been no complaint from. the 

did what he said he iid. ‘There wis no Case | Commodore would you have, oa your own 

of murder to go to thé jury, but he must admit | csmmorgd them?—1 think 1 would. aes 

that there might be a case of manslaughter’. Mr, Master said that as far as the care went 

__ His Honour: There was evidence; there was | tis Worship could see (bat Messrs, Bulterfield ' 

the evidence of the Ghinamen who stated that | and Swire had no intention of obstructing the 

there was no previous quarrel among. anyone | wharf, Messra, Butterfield had a right to tie 

else, and there was the evidence of the inter-| off their offices and it was the. junks dong | .: 

preter, and the man’sawn conduct and admis- | Admiralty work that caused the obsiruction. - . 

sions, ee ; The Gompany are going to sink a buoy west - 
Mr. Calthrop said then, there was another | of their offices and iter will be na sbeaaion 

point, ind that was the question of jurisdiction. | {n the future. ; 

This was a crime committed on the high seas, {His Worship—But what about the. Aferning 

and there was no evidence that the prisoner | Pog? pee 

was.a British subject. There was, in fact; no] Mr, Master-—They are interlopes, your 

evidence either way. our Worship. They've no business there, : 
The Attorney-General said it was on 4) Serpeant—The Inunch does not belong to 

British ship on the high seas, and that constitul- | the Afarning Post, yaur Worship. 

ed sufficient jurisdiction. {t was. immaterial} Coxswain—Yes, it does, It is only rented out. 

whetherthe prisoner was a Kritish subject ; the} His Worship—Then what do you propose 


journed for a fortnight as his-client_ was away 
and no information could be oblained.. The 
tase was ordered to stud ove for two weeks, 
the Official Receiver having no objection, 

His Honqur here said that in future he wish- 
éd all applications in Bankroptcy ‘to stow the 
seclion under which the applications were 
made, the’ same’as in Summary Jurisdiction 


question reserved being the ainountof damages. Wimess: [ wish you to produce.thase 
» efendant had so confused his case with ine] receipts. eC ‘ 
accusate details that at was difficult te follow, |) Mr. Deacon:+ 1 shall produce them. When 
The front shops were finished w tet, Defendant | did you last receive rent on your -properly in 
was to have coinplete possession, excepting the | Bonham Strand ? ° ; : : 
Datly Preas prenuses on July :and asa matter | | Witness; On the 24th April. 

of facthhe made,-Jus ‘alterations to the upper | Mr. Deacon: And you have rectived none 
floors depending on obtatning possession of the |'since? : : 
inner 1ooms ofthe Dutly Press. In view ot | Witness No, that, was the last time I 
his finding on the principal poimt that the Daily | collected rent ‘on property. 

Mess Was NOt lo ZO OU at theend of February, Witness was then cross-examined at some 
defendgot, could not have Jetihe upper flonrs jengtl'regardin payments ‘made by him dar- 
until they were: finished, viz, Qctober 35, but | ing the last few, months, but he was unable to! 
they were not finshed until- November ts. [e } give much information. : 
was clear that the defendant was entitled to Mr, Deacon: Now, ts it nota fact that as 
half a month’s rent of the upper floor, but as it | S00n as you knew vou were going bankrupt 
wis difficult to’ assess such datages and as | yQu sent away all the money you could get 
there were always sume contingent damages | together out of the jurisdiction ? + ae 
the Chief Justice thought $1,500 would meet | Witness: I did mvt send one cash out of the 
defendant's claim, and gave judgment accord- |'jtrisdiction, except los a debt T had to pay. 


--ecents, respectively, has been considered by nv 
7 - ' Committee and they ‘see no reason why U - 
alegation should not be made.—I have &c, 
: (Sgd.), A. KR. Lows, 
Secretary. 


Hon. T.Sercambe Smith, 
‘ * Golomal Secretary. = 
METRIC SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 
A letter was read from the Decimal Associa - 
tion expressing Uhsoks for the Chamber i 
' , donation to the Parliamentary Campaign Fund 
say wand gratification that the Hongkong Delegates 
_ rat the forthcoming Congress of Chambers of 
Commerce would support the resolution favour- 
. ing the aduption of a metric system of weights 
. and meagures throughout the Empire. 
. : CSENTH CONGRESS OF CUAMBERE 
COMMERCE OF THE EMPIRE, 
The following lepterswere read: = 


and Chamber applications, 
“RE CHAN TAK KAU. 
exparte THI DEVIOR. 
Mr. R.A, {Sarding cipplied on beball of the 
debtor for an adjudication order, the Official 
Receiver ta be appointed trustee. ‘* a 
Mr. Wakeman said that al the mecting of 
the creditors it was suggested that another 
person be appuinted trustee, . 
-. Mr. Harston said be appeared fora creditor 
and it was understood that an application was 
to be made, that Mrz Percy Smitu be appointed 


oF 


Hongkong: Chamber of Commerce, ingly. = ; , Witness, continuing, said that he promised | tustee. There had been another section, in prisoner committed acrime on a lisitish ship,| to do? ' ; ‘ 
ak: : and June, tga, PEs With segard to costs Mr, Sharp submitted | 9 gtve his daughter-in-law $100,000, but after- which his partner. Mr,Seth had acted ‘for the and that was enough for this Court. It was un- Mr, Master—As we will have our lhunches 
Dear Sin-—With further. reference (o my | tht defendant had refused specific performance | Watds he could not doso, so he gave her. a | frm, and therefore it would be more convenient necessary ta prove anything about his national- | placed at another wharl, we will see that there 


1s no (urther obstruction. r st 
. The coxswain ofthe Morning Post was fold 
that he was not to return'to that place. 
“But [have no other place to he ” be replied. 
Mr, Master—As wo are leaving there, 1 
think the Aforning Post can remain. How- 
! t a : ever, U think that if a nole was sent to us there 
thing; Hongkong coalics might be recruited, | would have been no obstruction, your Worship. 
dr nen from the New Territories. . His Worship—Did you see Messrs, Butter- 
_ ‘The Attoracy General said this. Court had | field and Swire beforc issuing the summons?" 
jurisdiction, us-alt the Admiralty Court laws!  Sergeant—I saw the coxswains ofthe launches. 
and pawers were vested inthis Court. His Warship—No, no— Me 
Addressing the jury Mr. Calthrop said that rt 


ity, bur if it was, there was sufficient evidence 
that the man was a Cantonese Chinaman. 

His "'onour; There 1s ample evidence thal 
the man was not a Hritish subject, He was a 
Cantonese Chinaman recruited to work in the 
Rand mines, ° pe 

Mr. Calthrop submitted that that‘proved no- 


ofthe contract on the ground that the plaintiff | Mortgage’ on the Ronhain Strand property. for | ty have ‘his partner appointed trustee. : 
had expressly misrepresented that the Maily | $30,000, and another on the Caine Road for! tig Honour: Have you any abjection Mr 
Piess would leave in February. This, Mr. «$10,009. . : Wakeman. aed 
Sharp submitted, he-had totally failed to prove. | “Mr, Deacon: Did you include in your state- | “My, Wakeman: I have no objection if they’ 
He further thought the Chie justice was with | ment of affairs, the property you have “in | yish it, but I think it would be a more ex uae 
him on the point that defendant had yiven his | Macao? : sive malter to the estate oe e 
evidence dishonestly. The Chief Justice had Witness: 1 sold it. The creditors were called in and asked whe- 
suggesied a different aspect of the counter Mr, Deacon; When? .| ther they wished Mr. Wakeman or Mr. Smith 
‘clam which was not pleaded, that the legal | Witness: did not sell it~! made it over in | to be appointed. . ae 
construction of thegontract was that the Daily | Payment of a debt. ‘ : Mr. Harston said whoever was appointed 
Press was to‘leave’ at the end’ of july, not Mr. Deacon: When was that? would have tobe under the supervision of the 
February, and the Chief Justice, continued | In Aprilor May. .," Court and give security. 

Mr. Sharp, could- not assume that if Chung | Mr. Deacon; Now,! put it to yoi that you) ‘rhe choice falling upon the Officer Receiver, 
Shun Koo had taken that attitude at cve first | transferred that property within a fortnight of | the order was made accordingly. . 
that Mr. He rung would not have accepted it, | vour bankruptcy ? : RE QUONG YING L aa 

Under the circumstances Mr, Sharp submitled | Witness: Yes, about that, | borrowed $1,500] | ay ie CHIN CH ec eRubites 

that defendant was not entitled te his costs on | and gave the house assecurity. Alterwards F} . expan, INK, CREDITOR. 

ie counter claim... sold the house. for: $1,500 and paid back the Mr. Harston of Messrs, Rwens, Harston and 


fetter of 7th April last inviting your attendance 

at the 6th Congress of Chambers of Commerce 
of the Empire I regret to inform you that the 

Committee haye no lurther information of the 

actual resolutions to be brought before the 

Congress. Doubtless they are on the way and 
when received a cable will be sent you through 
the Hongkong & Shanghas Wank should the 
Committee deem it necessary to ecord their 
vote {n any particular sesalution : 
: Before leaving longkong Mr. Gershom 

f » Stewart had an interview with the Committee 

: and knows the attitude they take up on'some 

of the question» likely to be raised, Mr. Dick- 

son only left on Wednesday: last via Canada 

and will not arriye in line to attend ‘the Con- 

ference, but your Committee of four will with- 

ae 4 out doubt cable me if there are any pots on 


{ : Me. Master—I did not.expect the police’ to 
the evidence against the prisoner was of the | do so, but the Commodore might have written - « ° 
most meagre description, but it had been made | to us about it. e i * 
the most of against him, and one point sought His Worship—ANl [ canda now is toadjourn, 

by the prosecution to further blacken the case | this summons sine die, and see ther is no - 
against the prisoner, was the fact of the disap: | more obstruction. aA at 


. which they think my Committee shuld decide | The Chief Justice thought that aspect ofthe | Money., a nag Harding, appeared for the bankrupt and called | pearance of another coolie. from the vessel. | r Master~Very well, ‘ ip, 
for themselves... casé had been separated from the main case | | Mr. Deacon: As a matter of fact all this is Chin-Chuen wlio said he had made inquiries | But the defendant knew nothing about that, Gage Ramsey wilt Pky Roe ee 
L enclose a copy of the Chamber's’ 1905 | from the outsel, Defendant's case had certainly lies. 3 Randy regarding the assets due to tle bankrupt, and | and it was not for him to explain such mys- | more than two abreast... If they do it again 
Report just issued.—I am, Xe; “\" EL been put forward ina complicated and nowvery | Witness: Why should [tell lies? : found certain sums were due from Messrs, | terious disappearance. : the coxswains will have to pay their own fines, 
‘ honest way. He also thought that ifr. Ho | Ar. Deacon: You have told about six already. Arahold Karberg and Co, $3,070.62 was the ) 


Mr. Calthrop quoted the law distinguishing 
manslaughter from murder, and, continuing, | 
he said a point in the man’s favour was 
that immediately after the occurrence the 
man made a’ statement admitting what he had 
done, without attempting toe say he knew 


His Worship then adjourned the ‘sum- 
mons séne dic, which under the circumstances, 
meant 9 discharge with a caution. 


¥ ce) 


(Sgu.), A. R. LowE, 
Sccretary..- 


‘Tong Bad been well advised he would have | Whness: What fics have I told? sum due, also there was another sum of-$600, 
y | and in Octobernext an addilional sum of.§718 


‘seen that there was some. delay inthe Dasly | ‘ Have you declarations as regards all you 

Press not woing out at the end of July. Costs | co-partnership properties? _ | would become duc, : F 

would be for plaintiff on the claitn and forde- | You should know; you made them. Qne. of the partne.s. was called and said 
: ji | that over $7,000 was further due to the firm. 


Sir’ Thomas Jackson, Wart, . * : 
Hongkong & Shanghait Banking. Cor- 
poration, London. 


AN UNROLY, WOMAN. — 


Hongkons Chamber of Commerce. fendant on the counter claim, : T have no recollection of doing so. 37, S 
oie Ai sik lute, 1906, ra ed Well, if you don't remember how should 17. A receiving, order was mnde,. the Official | nothing about it. “Self-defenca was the first 
"Dear Sir, aus in receipt of your tetter of , j RRO PICK. s Are the declarations with the Official Re- | Receiver being appointed trustee. law ‘of nature,” and whatever the prisoner had —— . 
17th May new in'circulation aniongst my Com- 1 BANK RUPICY. Lceiver?. eset Fae 7 SPEG/GL ERIMINAL S : done ke had done in self-defence, and. he RRFUSES TO PAY VEHICLE HIRE. 
mittee, stating that the preluninary programme Pate : ne the best of my tecollection—— —* , , AL AUINAL - c submilted _ . jury could not convict the ae , 
ing already in hands my Committee RE CHAU DART TONG, | Never mind about the ‘i.best of your recol-| - ee es , prisoner either of murder or manslaughter. 
being already in my ee > SaaS | Jection;” it bas not been very reliable so far, - ALLEGED MURDER. el His Honour briety summed up, reviewing Before Mr. H. H. J, Gompert, at the Ma- 


gistracy this mosning, a female passenger who 
arrived by the s.s. Arcadia from the north, was 
charged with being drunkand disorderly, yester- 
day, and refusing to pay vehicle hire. A Eura- « 
peanconstable said that whileon duty inQueen's 
Road Central, yesterday afternoon, he saw. de- 
fendant drunk in a ricksha: He stopped the 
vehicle-and asked defendant where she was 
bound for, She got very disorderly, usingabusive 
language, and re{dsed to pay her ricksha. She =~ 
also slapped the: officer on the face, She was. 


‘would doubltess cammunicate their views to 
the Hongkong Delegates by, wire, Nothing 
has come to hand since your circular invitation 
was received so I conclude it hag miscarried, 
and unless Singapore or Shanghai can favour 
“me with one of theirs | am afraid it will be foo 
‘tate to instruct the Hongkony Delegates u@- 
less they cable for instructions sn any particu- 
\ © Jar point—Yours faithfully, : 
o¢ {(Sgd.), ALR. Lowy, ' 
eo ; , Secretary! 


the evidence, and painting out the law, 

The fury, after consultation, returned a ver- 
dict of manslaughter, and added a rider, 
strongly tecommending the prisoner to mercy, 
as the crime was committed under grave pro- 
vocation. - 

__ The Attorney General: There is no evidence 
of provocation,” peace 

His Honour: 1 think I have the right to say 
that fam dissatisfied with the verdict. 

Addressing the prisoner his Honour sen- 


er _ 28thiinst. Witness, continuing, said that he never 
_ In Bankruptcy Jurisdiction this moraing, his | rendered nny accu to his partners: They 
Honour Mr. A, & Wise presiding, the case handed over the business to him and felt every- 
of Chau Bart Tong, ex parle the credilors, | thing him to thanage. They were satisfied, 
was called on, Mr. F. 2. Deacon, of Messrs. | and ‘never questioned him about the business 
Deacon, Looker and Deacon, Mr. Harston, of | a he thought they were quite contented...‘ 
Messrs. Ewens, Harsion and Harding, and Mr. Deacon: ‘the declaration you ‘have 
He Hy arding, respeciively represented | handed to the Official Receiver only refers to 
ihe creditors, Mr. G. H. Wakeman, Official | ihe Bonham Strand property—where is, your 
fleceiver, conducted the public examination | evidence that you have other partners?” - 


of the bankrupt. |" Witness; You know that 


VERDICT MANSLAUGIITER. 


A special Criminal Sessions was held this | 
morning in the ‘Supreme Court, his Honour 
Sis Francis Piggott, Chief Justice, presiding, to 
try the case of Tsing’ Ming, a Cantonese coolie, 
| who was charged with the murder of Ng Yueng 
Choi, another coolie, on’ boatd the 8.8, /n- |. 
dravelli, an tho 18th iast, on the high seas, 
one day out from Hongkong, : 


Kentic B: Murray, Esqy Chau Dart Tong, declared, stated he was a : ty OS The Hon. Sir Henry Herkeley, Attorney i 1 ory ‘ ut in a chair and removed be lock-tp. 

; mec en oC 3 partner: in Darlly and Company. , He joined His Honour: Noont mer you just now, | General, instructed by Mr. G, E. Monel, of eras seven years! imprisonment with There it wat ascertained that sh@ ha namoney, 

Cone cain, BGs. Unetnumpers himsele Entgayner wae Paar | “rage: IMG ounce inaeced | eee Be Ne oe nial eos oan, 
: ‘The Secretary reporled that Mr, . Chatter- pag f Mr. Deacon: [ find I need not press that 5 Me. iW. Goldring, of Messe. Goldring ; Si eres crclocks cue PA Herday : 


cisco Tse-pat. The capital at the beginning | questi ‘* . 
Cate est! 

was $50,0°0, each partner putting in $25,000. It eestion.:my Lord, as Lam instrucied the title 

was a piece goods and yarn, and miscellaneous Mr. Harston then cross-examined witness 


goods business, Besides thishe had a share ask ; : 
im the Sak Chuen Bank of Bonham Strand. and Asked Sim eal ee ag ot i 
i 


Ie had $:0,000 in that Bank, owning a third ; i 
ae That Hank was now closed, Witness ar ee Ree ial mg 
was the managing partner, That business was were! Les ie the Official Receiver that you 
closed avout March Inst, as there was no busi- | “EF? ‘a solvent three years ago, - ee 
ness,and they could not get-any more capital. {don't remember, I never kept any ac: | prisoner was charged with (he murder of one 
Al the outside debts were paid. By onside Sa and destroyed all receipts and vouchers, fe Yueng Choi, on the high seas, on the 18th 
debts he meant all debts due to others than the | "5 '¢ ought they wero useless, ‘linst. The pritoner and the deceased were 
artners and: shareholders, He. had not seen Don't you think itvis a very disgraceful among a lot of coolies returming fram South 
lie partners for'a long time. He did not know | State ofaffaizs that you should deal with over | Africa, where they had’ been working jn the 
what was still due, as the accounts had nat | $500,000 and yet calmly say you don't know | mines, Oa the mosming of the: 38th inst. 
ae moe when the s.s. Jadravellé waron her way from 


to hand herover to the other coolio, the defen- 


11, Bh wrirns inthe Moochow Daily Bho: a other 
dant would not leave his vehicle, nor wottld she 


—While the customaty expressions of regret 
overtha departure of anesteemed member of the 
Community are never wanting in sincerity | 
Am; suré @ particular note of feeling will not 
lack fitness on the occasion of H,B, M. Consul, | eleven? 2 $ : 

Mr, Herbert Brady's approaching departure, [| Witness—It was “ning o'clock when you 
have found his graspof affairs avery material{engaged me : 
factor in solving the Inevitable problems and{ Defendant said"the warm weather was the 
difficulties of the foreigner who does business | cause of the whale affair, The British Consul 
in China, and have found his energy equal to| at Shanghai paid her. passage to this Colony, 
any situation that ho: thought. showed a fair] and it, was her intention of geeing the pilitary 
fighting chance, so with to express a buaivess | authorities (o secure some moncy, by shich to 
man’s rezret Over the loss to. the community of | continue her passage home 8 / 
an official whose efforts to sight some things| His Wonhip ordered her to pay; $1,to the 


and Barlow, defended. 
Prisoner pleaded “ not guilty.” : . 
The following jurymen were impannelled : 
Messrs., George William Gegg (Soreman)y 
Leslie James Blackburn, Joseph Sassoon 
Gubbay, George R. S. Forsyth, Robert Brydon 
Wood, Malcolm Manuk, aridCharles Haywood. 
The Hon, the Attomey General said that the 


ton Wilcox had weiiten to accept the invitation 
sto “act as one of the Hongkong Delegates and 
“that letiers have been despatched tot*e Shang- 
‘hai and Singapore Chambers asking for the 
Joan of copies of the Conference programme. 
REGISTRATION OF PARTNERSHIP. 

THE Chairman said that at the Legislative 
Coungj| meeting on 17th May, last, he had 
expregsed the views of the Committee of the 

ae : Chamber that the mation bronght forwaid 

by Hon. Mr. H. 2, Pollock, x.c, shosld be 

* withdrawn, pending the introduction of 4-Bill 

‘ehowing ‘the scope of the resolution. Mr. 

SPollock had aceepied that view aud it war un 
af would in dua couren be 


ay, é ‘ % $A 
F Defendant—Hoiw could { engage the ticksha 
at nine ociock when I left the. Arcadia ot 


Oe de Se So eecd a draft ein. | been made up. ; ; + .{ what wasdone withit?; : : 
_ derstood God H. Elke Governor hadpromised | Hix Honour; How can you miake up ac+|- Ef you' watt me to tell you to whom’ the | Singapore to Hongkong, ciies of “save life!) have bean 8 tangiblq aeae to business interests | ricksha coolie as compensition, aud impoved & 
; que Chamber of Commerce ahould then have ! counts when you bavg no books: : maoney was paid’! can dos, - ~~ | were heardjand the paseengers werg awakened, | in thinplace,. fing of $5,’ psig. Sen rss Bee Be 
> pa sales Naat: -, = 4 a we eae ‘ : fe wt as 4 : 
Mic a . en 4 ied . ee if 


Lx * Pad 


d 


apile oases : . 


eee 


ZON".SALVED 


THE “ DUMBAR 


“Mr, Jameson's salvage steamer Cilyof Birm- 

ingham ia convoying the Dumbarton to Naga- 
sakl, in which place she will be docked— 
Communicated, : oS 


tt 


A MACAO BANKER. 
igen 


{ 
ROBBED 1N HONGKONG. ' 


: 25th inst 
“A very interesting case came on for hearing} 
before Mr, H. H. J. Gompertz, at the Police 
Court this morning, when Chon Chung, nephew 
‘to the master, of a shop at No. 142, Queen's 

Road Central, was charged with stealing a 

d purse containing $12.50 if-money and two 
promissory notes to the value of $1,100, from 
Qn accountant, yesterday, According to the 

‘evidence heard complainant is an accountant 
fn the Po Hang Bank, Macao, He camo to 
Hongkong on Saturday.and during his stay In 

- the Colory put up at 142, Queen's ;Road 

i + Central, Yesterday afternoon complainant left 
f : his coat in his room on the third floor to go 
below fora shave. When he returned to the 
room the purse was gone, and so was the de- 
fendant. A report to the Central Police Station 
followed and later the defendant. was arrested 
on the, Charles /fardouin's wharf, When. 
arrested defendant admitted, in the presence of 

"the dukong and the comptainant, that ‘he had 

stolen the purse, but had thrown it into thesea, 
and volunteered to return the notes which he 
had in his pocket to the complaint pravided he 

. was released fram custody., On being searched 

at the Cental Station $13.50 was. found - 
op the accused, and before being put in a cell 
he again admitted his guilt. - Yet at the Magis- 
tracy this morning he denied pleading guilty 
dn the charge-room and was acquitted by the 


at 
e 


ol 
A 


day last, As was previously stated when the 
police-seceived word of the outrage and visited 


moved to hospital a 
thento obtain an inftrview owing to ber un- 
conscious condition. 


dcemed adyisable to perform a surgical oper. 
ation. This was eo far successful that, critical 
1% Mrs, Aoki's condition was reported to be of 
Saturday, decided improvement was notice- 


and Mts. Aoki, through an interprater, said that 


number, broke open a box in search of loot, 
and ficding nothing vatuab'e,- were about to 
make a further search, when, thinking discre- 


corser of Eastern Street—collaped, and al- 
‘though there, was no loss of lives, yet one or 
two /okis had.to be removed to hospital owing 
to slight injuries sustained by.the falling déSris, 


w 


H 


ONGKONG ‘TELEGRAPH: SATURDAY, , JUNE. 30,1906 


; ESIGHTON HILu. ROAD | tS uy TAK LL.SHING CASE, aftareards abandoned and‘ the documents ad-[ ' - SAMYZARY BOARL) “e 
Ehime oa ae : : OUTRAGE. (16 | ede ‘mitted to'be ganuine.’ Te is = he eet Oo Ed TE seth ets POR BACTERIAGK“ : 
MR. J. Wi JAMESON'S SUCCESS, Ere Ee ! CLAIM FOR: PARTITION. ment” only related to the fit brooch of} ‘ ntly inteting-of the Sanit | ——se ee 
\ eam ‘ MRS. AOKI'S STATRMEN a y - : -thiballeged transaction, the sale to Li Sing and The usual fortnightly meeting 0! a) ees oor ee 
News, bas b ived by eee at t ae : ap . JUDGMENT FOR PLAINTIFFS: not the transfer to the plaintiffs, Bat if you | #tV Beant was aw! ae sireesonn ey SUIGESTIVE QUESTIONS, BY MR. HENRY 
: Mr. 1 Watt ameson: has. sictesste iy salved Further particulars ore sera Lae " aS —— DAG br reall Lapa sear Get pang : caneand = Bee = : 7 : ik Lebar Sg 
the 8.8, Derntdarton, which wat wrecked in De } xardingtha Leighton Hill Road affair, which was} 1 Jurisdieti oath la ane Gees oan or eaten ihe case al © ANTHRAX. Re igh: 6 TTT | Ph6th fost... 
Castries Bay, Siberia. reported in the AYonghong Telecraph of Satur- nal Jurisdiction this morning, bla | co ay against tho remaining part. A case af| ' The Cagaiat Velsvinory Surgeon submitted |"""At the usual fonnightl} ataptingof the: 
a repo on Sunday morning, the.17th inst, |‘sanitary Board «this afteraoon, Mr. Henry 


Ou ir Fracis Piggott; Chief ‘Justice, 
presiding, judgment was given in the case in 
which Li Po Kwai and another sued Liv Ling 
Shi and another for (a) one-sixtcenth ‘part of 
Marine Lot No. 239 and Inland Lot No. 2,355 
and (4) an account of rent and profits collected | 
thereon. : % : DS ea 

Mr. M. W, Slade, instructed by Mr. C, F. 
Dixonin the office of Mr. Johndastings, sppear- 
ed for the plaintiffs, and Hon, Mr. H. E. Pollock, 
K.c., and Mr. E. #?. Sharp, Kc., instructed by 
Mr. R.' Uarding, of Mesa, Eweus, Hartston 
and Harding, appeared for the defendants. 

THE JUDGMENT. : 

Tho Chicl Justice said;—Li Sing was an 
old and wealthy Chinaman, He seemstohave 
had other characteristics, ‘He must have beet 
wily, for he conceived the idea of dividing bis 
property, or at least some $4,000,000 worth 
between this sons, before. his. death, thereby 
Lenabling them to enjoy it without paying the 


forgery cannot therefore in ‘my opinion be held 
tobe eatabliahed ; these are therefore - docu- 
ments which I hold to be genuine and which 
satisfy the requirements of the statute of frauds. 
Je pment for tho plaintiffs with coats. 

a ‘ 


¥roniCk RECREATION CLUB. 
FOLIC. : 


TENNIS TOURNAMENT. 


nulfock which had died from ‘anthrax wor 
Brought to Kennedy Town Cattle Depdt. The 
animal was one of 43 which were bygught from 
Canton,-and which werethe propelty of Kung 
Wing, Butcher, Stall.No, 1 Central Market, 
the animal dying on bbard the ship, It was 
immediately cremated aod the other animals 
wera placed in the segregation’ shed uoder 
observation, One calf dled of'a ruptured stom: 
ach due to an ovér-feed of wat grass; the rast 
werd henlthy,-and had been roleased from 
quarantine and taken back into the: depdr, |* 
which had been disinfecied, ; 
INSPECTION OF FOOD. ‘ 
A minute bythe’ Medical Officer of Health,’ 
requesting that #he Senior Inspectors be 
authorized to enter and inspect food in nccord- 
‘ance with sec. 89 @f the Public Health ‘and 
Buildings Ordinance of 1903; was submitted, 
“The. Hon. the President minuted:' On July 
1ith, 1905, the Board resolved; “That the 


Humphreys submitted th 
_Hestive questions ; 
1. Has tho distemper (i.0;, limewash)-from 
tha interior walls of infected Chinese houses. - 
«ver been -bacterilogically examined with, a 
Viow to ascertaining the percentage of orgaclo’ 
matter therein or with a. view to finding out ™. 
whether the bacilli'of tubcrculogjs, enteric or - 
plague are present, If yes, state results for the 

information of the Board, Ifnot, why not, - , 
Tha President replied as follows: Answer!, — 
On the 18th inst. { beatin 5 eile of tine | 
wath In actual ue in-a ,Chiseso house, io 
— Road Wait, and Submitted it to the . 
actériologist for examination, He reports 
that It conthined no micro-organioms, that kt. 
waruaable to support the life of tha micro - 
organisms of plague, typhoid, cpolera, and 
several others with which he experimented; 
that ong part of Iimewash added.to' fVe*parts 


y fallowing ‘wory aug 


© premises, Mis, Aoki hud already been re- 
Hei police were unable 


N 


Mra. Aoki received immediate skilled atten- 
on at the hospital, and on Sunday it was 


ee . _ agth inst, . 
’ The first, round In the jadier nomination 
tennis. tournament of. the Pollco Recreation 
Club cpmmences thi¢ afternoon, st tbe Happy 
Valley. ‘Tho follgying are the players:—In: |. 
-spector Kerr (nomi.uy. Mrs. Garret Sergeant 
“Cuthbert (by Mrs, Hy Ge Baker); Sergeant Conn: 
soll (Mrs. Baker}, Inspector Robertson (Mré, 

fon), Mr. Quinn (Mire. Culliford), Sergeant 
WeLennan (Mra. Apley). P. C. Edeards fits, 
McHardy), Imapector’ Withers) (Mrs. Simo), 
Badeley), .P. C. 


ate to-day and hopes, we are glad to say, are 
atertained for the lady's recovery. : 
Tho police were grantedan intarviow yesterday 


he war able to identify: her assailants again, 
fter she was overpowered the robbers, two in 


tion the better part of valour, they left the, tsunl tribute to the- Government, known by PB Mire. ’ ining activ 
h use without removing anything, Feed the name of succession duty, He alo had Fare Glan g Bt, O'Sullivan: (Mrs | Board hereby nutborize Dr, WED, Pedne, Dr. Seg ot eth ore pes ‘fears 
= oe any views of whe shies = sce ee Sergt...Gordon (Mra. Lyons) Sera Gibion tite RU aed p i ; a 0 gaaiai within twelve hourt;-and that the 
; AS : sg him and what did not; fo Fat, .! ts itchie (Mra. | G 40 rany-s! tsep Lis imewadhycs f . bs 7 
ANOMHER BUILDING COLLAPSE, there is one admitted instance of his, having G4 pits, ayer) ee rey aent thevaale gp aration for. saleo, storage]. et, We 1a polinada lly deer dosti . 
AD WEee FOIE. included in this subdivision among his aaa Kent (Mrs, Cander):P, C. Waterer (Mrs. Aria), | of fobd, to inaptct gpd mine any food found by, A cing conducted in regard to diy, © 
e 2 ; property valued at over $86,000, which belon; Int McHardy (Mrs."Gameton), Sergt, | therein which he’s All hgve: reakon ro believe | Yfinewash.. haat oh ae 
= > agth inet. [to the Lai Hing firm. It-may well be that | wacky (Mrs. Slatk), and Inspector. Langley 416 intendkd.ta'e-pbed apiNinan food-and’in | "5 Has the mortar from internal limowashed 
During ‘the eafly part of this month, it will | with declining years that delicate mental per- | (Mra, Kent), ome : <n Pease any tuch food appeateto beunfit ior such | walls jn infected Chinese boutes ever been 
be remembered that three houses—Nos. 226, | Ceplion was wanting which was necessry to The.competition is to be ‘completed by 7th | Use, to seize the same, if accordance with sec.’ Seamideg as above? If yes, state results, If 
228 and 230, Queen's Road West and at the | appreciate the somewhat complicated relations july! er : 83 of the Public Health aid Buildings Ordia- nol why not? > : sagen e og 
an.e . of 1903." Ie -is proposed 10 extend the | “Aaewer 2. . Numerous ‘experiments have 


with the Lai Hing and with former owners of 
shares in the property in the lots of land sow 
in question, He also scems to have been a bit 
of a despot, for certainly Li Tsuk Chi, the ex- 
ecutor of Li Ling’s brother, |.i Chit, did in the 


power tothe Senior Inspectors whore names 
ure as follows y, cE. Breet, R. Gi Moe 
Ewen, F. Fisher, ‘Ff Lamble, T. P. Conoity,: 
and J. A. Lyon, Sey 


been made in various parts of the world, ‘In 


“GLAIM FOR LAUNCH HIRE: 


—_—— 
VALIDITY OY, UNSTAMPED RECEIPTS. infected houses; the results haye shown that 


the bacillus does not survive these’ conditions 


A few days afterwards, when the houses were : ae : ; 

cleared of the refuse, excitement ‘prevailed one | matter of the assignments lo the sous what he ay fo. a6thinst, | Mr.. Humphreys minuted:. 1 am'not IO | fur tonger thao seven days in tempertite 

aight.when it was learnt that the party wall | was &x; nected to do trusting, I suppose, if he Mn: Summary-Juritdiction, this morping, his favour of increasing the powers of Sebior “climates, aud fora much less period in tropical * 

adj ining house No: 232 was bulging out. The | really “kndiytwhat he was about, to correct Honour Mr.A. G; Wise, Puisne Judge, presid: | Jnspectors? ae ad | th countries. ee 
erminuted: | agree wit 


ing, Leung Yau, of No. 104, Des Voeux Road, 3. Has the: dinemper fi, es. Jimewash)' or 


Court, The complainant admitted that the pol:ce were called out und ardered.the inmates [matter afterwards. as he did in the cass above 1 Vee oe Hoo) 
: -money:he lost was made up of two five-dollar | from different houses on that bleck to quit the | menii ‘ed, “Whe question is whether it is not | sued Leung-Lai Chuen, alias A’Chee, of No. |. vir.atimphteys... Surely, three doctor and a! mortar from European “dwellings such ‘as 
bills on (the Nationat Bank, thebalance being in | premises. This they did, and the’ ublic Works | Necessary lof make’ nhother correction in the | 3% DesgVocux Road, for the recovery of ihe veterinary surgeon are sufficient. [ou Benconsfield’.Are de," wher, plague hus’ 
' qubsidiary coins, When the defendant was | Department staff setio work to shore up the | cnse of the property in dispute in this action sum of $400, money deposited by the plaints Hon. Mik. A. “ewett minuted: Nor 1,4 pee recurrent! teh tiebeen  bacterialogically . 
siarched the §13,50found on him were partly | party wall’ - and which was incldded in the assignment to | with the deféndant as security far'the:hire of] unless some very good reason can beadvanced, | exsmined as in t and 2 sip yen, state results, 
steamJaunch. *, re Mr. LauCha® Pak minuted: The Medical a fe ae Sad ; 


. banknotes on the Hongkong and Shanghai 
\ Bank, The Court could not account for this, 
but simply wanted to know, if complainant lost 
$12.50, how $13.0 could be found on defendant 
whon asrested, How did he come to bave any 
money on him at all when he wat supposed to 
only possess twenty'cents lor his fare. to Can- 

* ton?. However, complainant's reply for de- 
fondant being in possesaion ofthe extra dollar 
was that‘in all probability defendant sold his 
lise, and did not throw it away’as explained. 

he Court could not consider the explanation 
sitisfactory, remarking it was impossible, and 


ak 
bi 


u 


232 coliapsed, Jeaving, as in the previous case, 
the verandah and thecook-housesianding. As 
is keiown this house had already. been vacated, 


work removing the déoris, and furiier shoring 


tegistered six earthquake shocks Tuesda 


“[snot, why not. 


Li Po Lung.” The plaintiffs ttozy'is that they Be, i 
Anawar 2.° No, The tle Question 3 . 


were willing tp purchase a siftire in the pro- 
perty belonging to ancestor Tam ‘Lai Ting, and 
the way in which this was done was by 
means of a purchase by Li, Sing, ood 
wretransfer of the property by him to them. 
The terms being the payment to the vendor of 
$10,800 cash and the” akin over of the 
liabilities to the Lai “Hing of 


At about 6.45 o'clock ‘last evening house No. 


‘ Officer: offHealth jhag-not given any reason 
cawhy this power should bevextended to Senior 
Inspect-rs. Are they qualified .to pronounce 
‘that any food is unwholesome ? : 

Hon. the Registrar General : 
is called for. a 


"Mr, Oita Kong Sitig appeared for thal plaio- 
+i and Mr, EB, J:Grist, TP Messrs. Wilkinsan’ 
and Grist. represented the defendant. as 

_ Mr. Otto Kong Sing said this was an action 
for, recovery of the sum of $400 money paid 
-for the'bire of a launch, the Fa Sam, on the 
Gth March, 1905, from: the plaintiff by the 
defendant. store : ‘ 


shows that the subject’ his“been, thorough! 
investigate ', though nat iny¢bphection' wit 
“ Beaconsfield Arcade.” che ee 

a Is old limewash or distémper scraped off 
‘before new is put on? (there is nothing in 
Uie regulations to enforce this and'in the case 
ofGliinese dwellings it 


herefare there areno fears of anyone having 


een buried in the ruins. Coolies are now at Some‘ reason 


SIZE OF GRAVES. . 


p arebeing carried out. I ; Tee gos 
The Sanitary Surveyor submitted a minute 


‘ 


———S=== $3,800. This dant. . 4 ; :  guba is ot dope as farasmy -' 
BEART VE . \rangaction, was proved by (1) a receipt from Plaintiff said’he chdrtered a launch on tho] relative to tha size of graghs in which he said Bo: led ). ges e 
; Ak COMES AE ANE a {the Lai Hing of the suit of $10,800 Pora'tha .$th March, 1905, 'from the defendant. — They | that the ‘fegulationa’: governing the dite of, hoaney 4 Beh) od dost “the walla aie 
The Manila abscivatory -microseisningraph Po Shun Tung, that is, the two plaintifie; (2) | agreed upon the hire ns Si6o per mensem, |.praves in Chinese cemeteries had not beond witty brushedand not scraped. , : 


On that day he 


de saw: ‘signed;.any way 'they were not adhered to, 


“new regulations bo 


money to be paid in advance, uv 


paid $160 for the-first month's charter. analogous to 


Does not tire, ,whi 


f 
in entry in one of the Lai Hing books, ab- ? iy 
ine,‘make one of thé. fines 


stracted by the plaintiff—publicly as he said— and he suggested that 


ge 


the man was allowed to leave the Court. evening and Wednesda mi v i <a him | ; 
————_ : are said to have been sees ming, twe.of which .to thé effect that ‘the share was transferred so § the defendant on the next day, and paid Le issued by the Board and a copy furnished to acteria 2” ‘ 
: = . a although no.damnge has been reported The | Li Sing, andon the same day parted with for } S4co. He got a receipt. but he Peart ¢} the sexton.of wach:cemetery. As the ceme- Angwer 5, No, af ' 
. AN OBSIREPEROUS CANTON | most perceptible of the shocks was felt at eight | (be Ame price to the plaintiffs ; (3) @ balance | nex! made a i eta on the 18th April ed teries mutt first be-terraced before the graves (Awumiog that the mortarof internal walls. 
FOS. o'elock Tuesday evening. The others were sheet book was made out for perusal of Po | gota receipt for the amount. Onthe ratt “y are dug:-and to gave unnecessary waste of | i, jected houses contained bacilli harmful to 
————o scarcely perceptible and only the delicate | Stun Tung which dealt with the ‘amount, anolher, payment was made and a receipt the | Hrbond he suggested that the length be re- 7 jit would not the coating of such walls withan . 
$3,800 due to the Lai Bing; (4) a balance | talned, The nex! payment was made on the duced from’9 feet to 7 feet, which would allow | joocuous substince lke slaked' lime. mixed 


R8T. POINT. 


: : 25th ‘ing, 
A small Canton pony was the cause of much 
excitement along Queen's ‘Rand West this 
morning, and it touk two burly European cons- 
tables all their time to hold an to the animal 
and to keep clear on its hind legs. The pony 
belonged to the Chung Wah stables and 


LIVELY TIMES AT 


3 
p 


c 


instruments at the observatpry could detect 
them. Severe shocks havee been, felt: in the 
Babuyanes and Batanes Islands. 
repart of the observatory follows: 


—which«bid a NNW.-SSE. direction wtid ‘a 


of increased paths. ; ; 

Myi:Las Chu Pak: The regulation sizes as, 
mentioned in thé list might not have been ad- 
hered ‘to in recent years; but certainly they 
were adhered to formerly, as I havea distinct 
‘recollection of seeing’ accounts with the sizes 
clearly noted in them, andthe charges made 
necordingly. 1 should like know in what re- 
spect the regulation sizes have not been adhered 


gist of June and areceipt was oblained, ‘That 
payment’ was {80 for n half month, making in 
all $560. - He applied for the returo of the $400 
security, but it wasn t returned ta him, ; 
Mr. Grist, said the ‘receipts could not go in 
asthey were not stamped. | 
Nr, Otto Kong Sing said that defendant 
might have stamped them before coming into’ 
Court, we 


sheet book of the previous year belonging to- 
Tam Lai Tong in which there isa record of the 
transaction to far us it relalesto Li Sing, The 
yerbal arrangemant between plaintiff and. Li 
Sing was tendeted in evidence and objected to, 
1 sdmitied if subject to consideration, | think 
it was rightly admitted as part of the ves ytste(?), |. 
1 do not,-however, discuss this questios, for 
although . evidence if interesting, it is not of 


percentage o- germs and ‘organic ‘matter’ by 
givog them mortofeedon? 
Anewer 6. Noy the gd to quéstion 
ites that -the limiewash has the oppose 
effect. , . 
y Assuming the answer to 6 to be “ yes," is 
not the very ‘lage annual tex on the com:, 


nivsity which the *limgewashlng re 


The detailed 


vAL 735 pm, June igth, Vicentin: micra- 
cismograph began to register imperceptible 
relumina y vibrations, 34 Seconds later fullow- 
d the first perceptible shocks—nat very intense 


.was sent out this morning in a ghatry. | considerab! ‘¢: ae : , ( t i 

What ‘the mafvo did to the pony yhen it | of ht Bie sates anes peta aie such importance that its réjection would have] + His Honour: utcan you stamp them now? | to, as admitted by the Surveyor, aed whose duty, tnyil not onlysmpndy wasted but mon 

arrived at West Point. na’ one “can” says] ble force and a lArge vertical amplitude’ seriously prejudiced the plaintiffs case, nor} | Mr, Otto Kong Sing: J submitso, my Lords] it 1s’ to sce that they are adhered 10, Say@ tinfottering disang2ss Best ng tas ote 

but suddenly the animal reared, and lahed followedabaving the direction. N. by Tw..g,| could .it of itself be, sufficient to support |ia penalty is attached. dae g he grave 12 feet by 14 feelin Sections D. and E, “Ne answer. Hath. 

out wildly with his hind .tegagi, Nothiog could | by SE. ‘Their duration was 23° seconda, The] (he, Plainds< cage.-— ‘Tho defence to” “tc # . His Honour: Ohd is there! But gan yor] bow ts the account to.bs made out for cemes | ple cima, 

be done to stop the pony's attack on the ghatry. | Cechiseismograph registered maximum angles action isa gevaral denial, which in the } samp a document after execution? * Be RG 1 sataricon a. nae: ore ee ee 
. The mafoo got so scared that he left his box | o dg, 48’ angles | ox touk “the following forms. ~The first | Mr. Otto Kong Sing: Subject, my Lordto| |The Hon. the Principal Medichl/Dfficer of SUBURSAN ‘BUILDINGS. 

and took up bls position in the arrest with the “Before the microseitmic perturbation tind eden did not appear, counsel stating that { the penalty, ia i eat? ; rave pice in D. and E, mensuse a8 zi : Bs 

towd which had already gathered watchin : a ab! sian | she. was a Chinese Ie if is tfr: But coutd you stamp a pro- | square feet. Extensions in the cate of sect ee ar — 

¢ ¥ 8 ® | ceased, w‘ second imperceptib'e repetition ch ady and therefore could His Hono M » ia EL are charged at the rate of $1 per square foot | -“piscustin: rrary,” 


the performance, thinking it was arranged for 
their amusement. ‘fhe animal seeing he was 
. not interfered with resumed its attack on the 
« gharry, until finally the shafts were ananeee 
god the animal ficding itself released, galloped 
down the road at a furious sate. -A policeman, 
who had justiurned the corner, took the situa- 
tlon in at a glance-and steadied himself.to stop 
the pony whenit gotnear, Ateverystepthopony 
increased its speed, frightened by the yelling 
crowd behind it. When it got near the police- 
man it was going at no slow rate and the coh- 
stable madeu grab at the dragying reins, He got 
hold of them, but was dragged some distance 
before the-pony's speed was reduced, Then the 
fight began. A second policeman seeing his 
brother officer tussling with the pony ise in, 
» butit took them all their timeto keep clear ofthe 
- pony's hind Jega,. Combined force was brought 
to bear and for a time the pony was mastered, 
and then led to the station. The animal 
must have known what was in store, for it, for it 
+ refused to enterthe compauiy of No.7 Station, 
rearing and bucking in the wildest fashion, At 
_» this stage the mafoo arriyed and the officers 
thinking that the Chinaman would help in quiet- 
{ng tho animal, called him togiveahand. The 
mafoo was nol (o be caught napping, he pre: 
ferred to look on while the others worked, and. 
asthe pony’s hind Jegs had missed him on one 
or two occasions, the mafoo deemed it expedient 
to get to safer quarters, 80 he speedily climbed 
a tree and from aloft looked on at the proceed: 
. Ings below. Finally extra hands arrived and 
the obstreperous animal wus dragged into. the 
station. : : 


! 


t 


omnes 
. TRADE COMPETITION, 
pace > il cain 


ae WOMEN FIGHT AT SAM-SHUI-PO, 


ness 26th inst. 
Two old Chinese women came ‘before Mr. 
H..AL. J. Gompertz, at the Police Court this 
morning, charged by Sergeant Sims, with fight- 
‘Sng in the Sam-shui-po market -place [ast 
night. There’ were hundreds of people gather- 
ed round the ‘market: last night awing to a 
certain festival and when thess women de- 
Clared war, the.crowd wers not backward Ip 
showing thelr appreciation of a fistical ex- 
_ hibition and would haye allowed the women to 
bruise each other until next morning had not 
‘ a sergeant's interpreter, who ‘was among the 
crowd “seeing things," intervened and had the 
womon taken fo tho Station, Both women are 
__ rico-pudding hawkers at Sam-shui-po and have 
been doing business there for some time, Ba: 
fors the risoin the price of rice the defendants 
were able to sell their puddings at five conts 
each. However, the first defendant found that 
.. HOtwithstanding the high price for rice she was 
"able to'sell her puddings at the same price as 
before, whilo the second defendant could not, 
and consequently raised her price to alx cents. 
| They met last night atthe market placo.and 
the first defendant was seen to be doing & 
‘ roating trede with ber five-cent cakes, while the 
, _ other woman could not manage to dipose of 
; her ware. This led to the second defendant 
criticising her successful rival's product, and 
the fight sented. They tugged and scratched 
at each otherand bore cach other to the ground 
& alternately by the haly, while the crowd were 
helping themselves to the pudding that was 
left on the gldo of the road, regardless of cost. 
- When plactd bofore his Worship the second 
defendant admitted the charge, saying that the 
.° first def@ndant was frying to mun her out. The 
first defgndant was fined $1, and the second $5. 
- white both had ta’ enter bonds fn! the sum of 

“ $ag each to be ef good condusi faz ons yaar, 


. 


occuried fit 7.50. 
same direction ag that of the first shocks 
8.54 pm. the 
calmed down,” 


‘character as the preeedinz took place, which 


58s. am. two more perlurbations were register- 
‘ed, butofsoemall an intensity thatthey probably 
were hardly p 


ing from the first shocks and the proportions |: 
of the vertical component during these and 
their repetitions indicated an earthquake caused 
by a centre not far distant and of 
tensity. 
northern pravinces of Luzon. 
received thus far confirms this.first impression 


* 


missory note after execution? GLY DIRTY AND INSAN 


. Mr Otto Kong Sing: . Well, my Lord, I 
cannet ‘say that as the documents are of’ 
different nature. ; ; 

His Honour: The schedule does not men- 
tlona receipt.. But! am perfectly certain about 
thi, that I canna accept the receipts as they 
are, you can go to the stamp man, if you like, 

Mr. Grist then cross-examined the plaintiff; 
but did not shake his evidenre-in-chief. : 

Re-examined by Mr. Otto Kong Sing, wit 
ness said defendant had offered $120 to settle 
the claim, but that offer was toa Jate, the action 
had been already brought. ae . 

This closed the case for the plaintiff. 

Leung Lai Chuen, defendant, said he lent the 
pleintiff a steam launch, and received $400 
deposit. The hire was to be §160 per month, 
Plalntiff kept the launch for three and one half 
months and charter was due inall $560 That 
amount, $560, had been paid, but it included 
the Saco deposited. ns q 

Plaintiff did not pay $169 on the 6th March; 
ifhe had done 10 witness would have given 
hima receipt. On the 18th April he received 
nomoney, and did not give the receipt pro- 
duced. On the 20th May he received $169 and 
gave the receipt produced for jl. He did not 
receive any money in June. The chops on the 
receipts were these of his shop, but were cnr 
respondence chops, and were not used for 
receipts. 


not or would not xe into th« box. A-dangerous 
doctrine as it seems .to me when the lady bas. 
been takinga tore or'less active part in the 
mapogement of an estate, and one to which in 
the absence of more light cannot subscribe. 
The second defendant went into the box, and. 
shook his head tu everything. In some things 
his head negatives were equivalent to palpable 
untuths, 1 must not omit to mention.- the 
fact that the plaintif, Li Po . Kwai, is 
not wholly blameless in-this respect. Io 
one particular his evidence ‘fell short of the 
statements snpplied to his counsel and second- 
ly in spite of his denial there seems to, have 
heen no doubt that he was present. at the 
division of property at Li Sing's hoube on April 
30, 1900. No legal contingencies seem to me 
to attach ta his presence: the utmost that can 
be said of itis that it affords grounds for come | 
nent, Astp the delay in bringing this action 
it of course ‘goes ta hiscredit, but ] cannot 
iltach any definite contingencies to this delay: 
apd the question: of credit really hardly arises, 
» ( have been obliged to notice these matters 
because they were gone into at the trial, but. 
she whole and sole defence: rests on the statate, 
of frauds, More fully, itis alleged, that the 
‘signatures to the documents I have numbered 
two and four, and also to an intermediate 
“ocunent.No: five of Li Sing are forged and 
therefore there is no writing as required by 
that, An old schoolmaster was ‘tendered as 


The movement was in the 
At 
instruments had completely 


in excess of the Bo square feet. Extensions in 
the case of section D, have not hitherto been 


granted. 


: 26th inst. | 

The: following letter from Mr. - Shelton’ 
Hooper was rend and Inid upon the ‘table at 
the Sanitary Board meeting this afternoon — 

; _. Hongkong, June 18th, 1906, . 

Sir,—I_ desire to bring to the notice of tho 
Board the disgustingly dirty and insanitary 
stale of the building. and land at Tai Hang and 
Wong-nei-chong. : 

The floors of the,licensed. pig-sties atoin a 
very bad condition, wide ,gaps existing In the 
aints between fhe rough granite stoves form- 
ing the floora, 

The sumps are ina filthy condition and seem 
never to be cleared or emptied, 

The hydrant in the pathway is surrounded by 
water,the pathway between washed away is, 
a or 18” lowe? than the curb in Shepherd 

freet. : 

Matsheds with floors in a wet aud filthy con- 
dition are uséd at domestiic dwellings. re 

+ Clothes, which have been washed in the 
nullah, are xtored in these matsheds before 
being delivered in town. _ - 

A matshed in which bean curd is made‘ and 
which a little while ago was burnt down is how 
reerected, and full of flies, 

The refuse ofthe matsheds is dumped in the 
‘cullah where the clothes are washed: and 
licensed pig-aties arg now used as domestic 


PRIVATE COFFINS. =, 

Correspondence was submitted relative to 
nuisancescaused by badly.made private coffins. 
Inspector McKenzie seported that the cause 
of the nuisance wat the fact that some 
of the poorer Chinese would rather pay for. 
their coffins than accept the charity of the 
Tung Wa, and the result was that, instead’ of 
the ordinary Chinese coffin being used, one 
roughly put together, with very large Joints, is 
used on account of cheapness, He thought a 
stop should: be put to the use of this form 
af coffin, which aes be -made as air ard 
water-tight.as possible, 2 

Stas alten Medical Officer of. Health 
said this practice was unfortunately causing a 
-nuisance, He had had several complaints re- 
jrarding the smells which caine from the coffins 
on.their way to the cemetery. The coffins are 
bidly-put together, leak, and give out noxious + 
gases, This could be prevented by better 
made cofins and the use of saw dus! or some 
such absorbent to take up liquid, and he sug- 
gested that the Board frame regulations. 

The Hon, the Principal Medical Officer said 
the Board bad power to make the necessary 
‘bye-laws. 

Mr. Lav 


At 24 “Wednesday anaraing . a third, 
imperceptible repetition of the same general 


asted §8 m. Atith $2m pm. and 3h 7m 


h erceptible even: in the region of 
he epicentre. aoe : 
Bath the duration of the periurbation result- 


1 of great in- 
Hence we feared’ immediately (or the 
The information | 


agit locates the centre in. North Luzon, where, 
according 10 telegrams from’ Aparri and 
Tuguegarao, the first shock was violent and 
was followed by two others at 7h 48m pm. 
and th 23m a'm,of respectively which how- 
ever were not very intense and: correspond ta 
the repetitions registered here, which have 
been mentioned, The earthquake has probab- 
ly been felt considerably oo the Bahuyanes 
and Batanes Islands and even in the sduthern 
part of Formosa. Finally, at 9h 4gm‘am, of 


Chu Pak: Are the Chinese coffin 


Wednesds ictoseismi ati ; 
Weieiywnenmictontarprraton a wage Wy EaeienAne aut Arie ine | HEC: Atv ecu all in thesone | sepa Heese? fea Nn» codtin fe | tage 
: iS opr ranean wate WHER) yet one u nate on | Reve Makes Sat ata a | tl ee SP MANE 
yoga ete - Witness: h t made air and watert) wi 2 d stat i . 
tHE SWAIOW-CHAO.CHOW-FU |The expert considered that the signature | the accountant. . ‘  aeer tho Gass: ® : Sichong. state of affaire existed at Wonge 
RAILWAY. - > [Yuk to the memo and that Li Sing to five | His Hononr: Are not they all in the samo} The Hon. the Regittrar-General: T-agrke | The large trained nullah on the east side of 
; = . | were nor genuine, His standards of com- | hindwriting ? with Mr Lav that action should be taken | the village, which is occasonally dammed, 
od 


Witness: J am not good at Chinese writing, 
po] cannot say. mi : 

‘His Honour: But they all appear to me to 
be in the eame ariting, and | believe the same 
hand wrote them all. a4 
. Witness: If your Lordship saya so, then it 
must be so, (Leughter.) 

His Honour; That is my pinion. most de- 
cidedly. The writing is the same and the 

per iathe same. What have you gat to sy. 
Mr. Griat? a : oe 

Mr, Grist: Woll, under, the cireumstatices, T 
don't think I can say anything beyond the fact 
thatthe defendant has stated that ‘the chops 
ged are the corespondence chops, and —. 

His Honoor! There. must be jadgment for 
‘plaintiff with costs. : 


cause@the houses ta be flooded, 
The hydrant is barely appronched or ace’ 
count of the braken state of the road and tho 
water from the hydrant was tke thick milk, 
There is no public latrine but an improvised 
une in a very bad condition, ‘ 
* Severallicensed pig-sties arg used as domaatic 
tuildings, and the general state of the path- 
ways*around the dwellings sina filthy con- 


parisons were as to the Yuk a document pro- 
duced by fin Tak Fan known to contain the 
y-guine Yuk and for the Li Sing aseries of 
signatures on documents admitied to be. 
genuine, | protest against persons going ‘Into 
the box to giva expert evidence who ignore the 
tlements on which cuch opinions should be 
lounded. Ho Kan: Po compares a chatacter 
written on Chinese paper with others written on 
ylazed English paper and in part bases ‘his 
opinion on certain strokes being sharp in one 
and blunt inthe other, This is the merest tri- 
vislity, because, although you may get Crisp 
strokes on English paper the essential quality 
of brush-work on Chinese paper, is its crisp- 
ness, which the quality of English paper doss 
not lend iiself to the provision of And his 
(Youk’s) analysis, was not much better, for | do 
not think he considered too care(ully the 
conditions under which (he two signstures re- 
spective were written, One point especially 


through the coffin shops. 
. THE-TAIKOO SUGAR REFINERY. © 

An application was submitted on behalf of 
the Taikoo Sugar Refinery Co., for permission 
to make certain additions to thelr premises. 
and to erect water closets Ip their offices. 

Mr, Skelton Hooper minuted; Should cer- 
tainly he granted. . ; 

Mr. H: Humphreys: Grant. 

Hon, Mr. EB. A. Hewett: Grant, subject to 
the ustial condhions regarding water supply, 


The railway which is to connect the treaty 
port of Swatow with the prefectural city of 
Chao-chow-fu, the concession for which was 
given in 1903 to one Chang Yu-nan, a Chinese 
merchant, has not advanced as tapidly as was 
expecled, owing to many important causas. 
Thewain difficulty experienced has been in 
purchasing land, Another matter which delayed 
the work was the Ampou riot which. occurred 
carly.in 1905 and in which two Japanese work 
menwere killed. Since August of Inst yeas 
however, work has been progressing more 
rapidly. An embankment hes been made and 
rails Inid as far as Ampou, ‘a distance of about 
ten miles. The total length of the tine will be 
thirly-two miles, and there will ba seven in- 
termediate stations. 7 

All material for the ra 
[apanese contractors, no public tenders having 

eennsked for, The jocomotives have been 
ordered from America, the sails and rolling: 


drains, but which the sewage water bas made 
for itself, ; eet * 

J have been Informed thar there havo-been 
unreported cases of smallepox, and there is a 
eve of a man believed to bp o leper, whom F 
sw, He said he had been sent to Canton 
twice ag a leper, but they say at Cantop 
was not leprosy, However, | think the ‘casa 
thould be investigated. aa es 

I fail.to understand why such a: atale of 
nffaire should-bave bean allowed to exist forsa 


HONGHUIZES IN MANCHORIA. 


1.—Fifty wagons loaded with rifles. and’ 
other arms, which were to bo sent. ta Kirin 
from Peking, arrived at‘ Erh-tao-kow station 
of Chang-tu-fe in the carly part of this month, 

The Committees, fram Kirin went toa Vamen 
Ja Changtu and borrowed twenty soldiers to 
escort the. wagons and statted for the railway 


a 
IMPUDENT RICKSHA COOLIES. - 


wounds on.the committee killing one soldier 
and bjnding several persons, : 
2—'n mount Ping-ting-shan a ditance of 
about o li from Liaoyang over three hundred 
Hunghutees are making their headquarters and 
threatening travellers, - oy 

‘The jmperial ig of Mukden, numbering 
two of thres hundged, advanced there to erpel 
them ‘pn the 6th inst. and fought furiounly, bat, 
the prolonged fight could not be brought.to « 
succees(al Issue, merely. resulting in casualties 
on-both sides, .. 

"g,—Since Feng Ling-Ko, a leader of Hung- 
hutze, left the border of Liao, bandits have 
heen agtiye and cannot be subdued. The 
guthorities of Lisoyang. have. supplied, two 
hundred yifles and twenty thousand cartridges 
in order to suppress thom.—Sinwanfao, ~ 


observe the rules of the rand, (2) damaging the , (8d.), A. SigLtoN Hooper. 


complainant's: vehicle, and (3) with furious 
delving. The coolie pleaded not guilty. Evid- 
ence was heard to the effectthat on the agrd 
instant’ complaipavt was driving in bis veh cle 
at Kowloon, ' The defendant with his ricksba 
mado several: attempts to pass that- of cnm- 
plainant. Ho did so afterwards, patalng oothe 
wrong aide of the caad, thereby damaging the 
complainant's ricksba. » After the accused bad 
made a statement, denying tha facts given, Mr. 

fdring suggested’ that he should be placed. 
Inthe stocks, as the ricksbs coolies on the 


It was rumoured in Maolls that the trans 
port AfcClellan will be used as an inter-island 
“boat relieving two'of the chartered transports 
“and'thus save considerable expense to the 
Government, - When asked regarding, the 
authenticity of the ramour the chief quarter- 
master: aaid that at the present time all 
rumours regatding the AfcClellan must be 
only conjecture, Inasmuch as the transport will 
reqire three or'four months repairing, nod 
nolblog definitely can be determined until the 
repairs have been made. At present the Afe- 
Chilan, Kilpatrick, Meads and Ingalls pro 
under ordors to be sent to the United States, 
via Suez, as soon as they can be spared. from 
this station and no change of order has been 
secelved at these headquarters up to the pre- 
east time. | ; : 


quired of it, : 

I should require much more skilled evidence 
to induce me to accept the proposition, wh! 
seems-to under-lin this witness's evidence, that 
n'l Chinemen at all times and under all cir 
cumstances always write the characters. of 
their names in an identical manner. It wo 
be impossible for me to find forgety op such 
cviderice as was given, But the school-mas- 
ter's evidence ‘18 fatal to the defendant who 
called him. He practically prcease? in fa- 


het the genuineness of the: signaturain . 

oxbibité.- Ber Ne ee ¢ coalt 

‘The balanceaheetbelongingto TamSal Tung. | peninsula wore very impudent. His Wonhip 
The two signatures had been challenged like | flosd the coolio’ $3" 00 each charge, sdding 
the signitures to the other’ documents and j ihat he would be make an example of the next. 
there isvtio’ doubt‘ that‘the ‘oripsotl.case was | coolie from Kowloon that {s charged before 
that thie dooument wa forged, bu) this wast him . 


PKOFERTY SALE. 3 


Land near Rurfl Building Lot, foo in the 
Colony of Hongkong for a term Of 33. years, 

| This lot is registered |y tho Land Office as 
Garden Lot No. 28, situated oh-Basker Row 


rent is $16, andthe upsct price $340. 
There was n0 competition ‘and tbe lot'was 
bought by Mr, C.-L. Gorham, for $3 O, belng 
$10 above upsst price, PET 
ae wt 


Ny 


, 


a 


LINEWASHING ANOQ. GULTORBS -°* 


regard to vinbility of the bacillus-of plague: . . 


t culearen for .: 


with @ good germ culture like size incroasa the | 


sacs 


‘ { 
Te hy eres 


dition, having no properly constricted surface 


stock from Japan.-—S.C. Daily Journal, a cablicty moe ERE Fen f° 26th inst, . | station above mentioned - However some ten tong and I think the Bobi 2 ould takelme 
$ Rr * and there isno telling what will result from aj This mornibr,, et the Police Ge pa Mr e bal eer made a oeeg coca een Kre gece watester ad : 
QO. S. TRANSPORT LELLAN" | 4 i . in } W. Goldri icitor, charged driver h }d proceed m han 14m 1nd desire th may b : ed: as son 
ppd SUE BELAN the ree and auctor ah et ny i. tino o ricisha No. tr3 (0 with failing to | captured the rifles, arms and money, inflicting | & possible, —Yours faithfully, 


At the office of the Public Works Depatt-. : 
ment this afternoon, the Jetting by public. 
auction sale was held of ono lot of Crown... 


and contains 6Boo square fect: “Theaonpal . 


a2 


: 
uly 


to 


H ONGKONG AND SHANGHAI 
; BANKING CORPORATION. 
. PAtD-UP CAPITAL... 


pene vaseeesns§ 10,000,000 |* * 
Rusurve FUND. ; : 
Sterling Reserve. 
Silver Reserve ‘105 9,500,000, 
RESERVE LIABILITY OF PROP*TORS.S10,000,000 


CouRT OF DIRECTORS: 
A, Haupt, Esq, Chairman. 
' GH, Medhursy Esq. Deputy Chairman. , 


$10,000,000 $19,500,000 


LoipoN -RANKERS~LONDON AND COUNTY 
| BANKING COMPANY, LIMITED. 
HONGKONG—INTEREST ALLOWED | 
» On curtent Account atthe rate of 3 per Cent. 
per .junum on the daily balance, ©. « : 


. ON Fixep DEPOSITS: - |. 
For 3 months, 2} per Cent. per Annuin,. 
For @ months, 34 per Cent, per Annum. 
For 12 months, 4 per Cent. per Annum. 
: H, E. &« HUNTER, 
|. . Acting Chief Manager: 
| Hongkong, 6th June, 1yo6. m (2: 


HONGKONG SAVINGS HANK.’ 


4s fF OHE Dusinessofthe above Bankis conducted) |, 
Se iy b the HONGKONGAN DSHANG Hal 
1 BANK NG CORPORATION. Rules may tt 
‘44 obtained on a plication. : : 
INTERES’ ‘on deposits is allowed at ake |, 
CENT, pex annum. : . 
Depositers may transfer .al their optw | 
balances of £100 of more to thé HONGKONG 4\: 
SHANGHAL BANK to be placed on FINE! 


TH 


DEPOSIT at 4 PER CENT. per agnum,. Kies 
For the HONGKONG AND SHANGH? 
BANKING CORPORATION. KES 


HE & HUNTER, : x 
Acting Chief Misnagee : 


Hongkong, 3oth May, tye. 
TT RUTSCH ASIATISCHE BANH* 


{22 


On 


oe Banks. mos SS 


CAPITAL SUNSCRIBLD 
CAPITAL. Palb-UP ., + 4 21,000,000 
CAPITAL UNCALLED secesesee gy, 3)000/000 


Reskryy FUNN . 
SPECIAL RESERVE 


‘E, Goetz, Esq. R. Shewan, Esq. ‘Branches and Agenctes. 
Hon, Me. W. J,Gressod | N, A. Siebs, bag. TURKIO, | HONOLULU. 
C. RB. Lenzmann, Esq. | HA. W. Slade, Esq. wAGASAKI, SHANGHAI. 
- DD. M. Nissim, sq. | H.E. Tomkins, Esq. LYONS. . ' NEWCHWANG. 
A, J: Raymond, Haq, 3 fon Ld aaa Oe eTHUR 
qi ACTING CER MANAGER : WOMBAY, * . 
 Hungkong—H. E, Rs HUNTER. # Pe ? ae f 
ACTING MANAGER: VERING. A 4 
‘She “_W. ADAMS ORAM KOBE. TIE-LING, 
Sr Lida eh orem - LONDON. OSAKA. 


Tk LONDON JOINT STOCK BANK, Lp. 
THE UNION OF LONDON AND : 


HoxXGKOUNG URANCH :—INTRREST ALLOWED 
- On Curtent Account af the rate of 2 per cent 
per Adnum on the Daily Balance. 

un fixed deposits for o months at § per cont. 


"eee eee eS 
I. CHARTERED BANK OF INDIA. 


NCOKPORATED BY ROYAL CHARTER, 1853. 


Capitan Vasp-UP 


- ACCOUNT at the Rate of 2 per cent. per 
aunum on the Daily Balances. - 


Y oe THE: 
OKOHAMA SPECIE BANK, LIMITED. 


ESTABLISHED 1880, | ; 
Yen 24,000,000 


Head Office 


NEWYORK. 
LONDON BANKERS: 


PARRS! BANK, Lp. 


“SMITHS. BANK, Lo. ue 


n » 4008 
eh rare, 0 3 ont. 
“PAKEO TAKAMICHI, : 


Mapager, 


ongkong, 14th May, 1906. [19 


AUSTRALIA AND: CHINA. 


HEAD OFFICE:—LONDON. ° 


mRVE LESSEE 
HOLDERS 
ERVE FUND 


TEREST ALLUWED vou CURRENT 


Fixed Deposits for 12 months, 4° percent. 


Tsingtaa Yokohama 


- FOUNDID NY THE FOLLOWING HANKS AND) 

: \ BANKERS + 

Koeniglicht Seehandlung - (Preussis- )° 
che Staatsbank) "©. > 

Direction » der Pisconto-Gesellschaft 

Deutsche Bank , 

§. Bleichroeder Me . 

Berliner Handels-Gesellschalt 

Bank fuer Handel und Iodustrie 

Robert Warschauer & Co. : ho 


Mendelssohn’ & Co. : : 
“M.A. von Rothschild & Secs ree 


"e 
Berlin. . 8 


Jacob S. H, Stera 5 a 
Norddeutsche Hank in Hamburg, Hamburg. | 
Sal. Oppenheim jr. & Co., Koeln" * 
Bayerische -Hypotheken und Wechselbank, 
. Muenchen. ee UN 
{. 


LONDON BANKERS: 


Tue Union OF LONDON AND SMITH'S BANK, : 

LIMITED. y ‘ 
DrvtscHE BANK (BERLIN), LONDON AGENCY. | 
DIRECTION DER DISCONTO GESELLSCHAFT. | 


| INTEREST allowed on Current Accoum. | 
| DEPOSITS received on terms which may be! 

leamed on application. Every description afi 
| Banking and. xchange busines transacted. : 
} : : HUGO SUTER, | 
| 


rec 


Manager. 
{24 


Hongkong, 26th May, 1906. 
eis 200s Sno 
NEDERLANDSCHE HANDEL- 
MAATSCHAPPIJ. : 
(Netherlands Trading Society.) 
* * ESrannisHeD 1824. 


Parwup CapitaL FL 45,090,000 6 3,7 $0,000). 
Reserve Funp FI. 5,002,020 (£" 417,009) ° 


et won n woe Bh on 
CAPITAL FULLY Paip.us...Sb. Taels 7,500,000 " my ee ie » 
, ; é “FP COCHRANE 
HEAD OFFICE--AHANGHAL : Z Manager. 
Hoary ov DIRECTORS: BERLIN. + Hongkong, 16th May, 1906. [23 
_ | BRANCHES :- ; an Seas Una 
Berlin’ ‘Calentta Hankow Kobe f a arn iriat ah 
Peking ° Singapore = rentsia Tsimanty, ) sa on -_ 
: VFISCAL AGENTS OF THE. UNITED: STATES 


* IN CHINA, THE PHILWPINE ISLANDS AND 


Carat AND SURPLUS 


THREADNEEDLE HOUSE, EC. 


\ Messrs, N. M. ROTHSCHILD & SONS. .. BRANCHES AND AGENTS ALL OVER THE 


THe Corporation transacts évery Descrip- 


cepts Fixed Deposits at the following rates -— 
For 12 months 4) per cent, per annum. 


No.9, Queen's Road Central. 


THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA. - 


.GOLD $10,000,000 | 
.GOLD.$ 3,250,000 
.GOLD $ 3,250,000 


“AUTHORISED 
APITAL Patp U 
ESERVE FUND 


. HEAD OFFICE: 
“NEW YORK, 


LONDON OFFICE: 


, LONDON WANKERS: 
“NATIONAL PROVINCIAL BANK OF 
‘  , ENGLAND, LIMITED, 
ION OF LONDON AND SMITHS BANK, LTD. 
Brivis LINEN COMPANY BANK, 


WORLD. 


tion of Banking and Exchange Business, 
cives Money in Curent Account and ac- 


6 wo 48 ” ” uw 
Jo» 30 om ow on 
, ,H. PENCKNEY, 

Manager. 
Hongkong, roth September, 1908, [20 


IN LIQUIDATION, 
TIME TARLE, 
WEEK Days: 


"7,00 a.m,to 7.30 am..eEvery 30 minules. °° 


Head Office—AMSTERDAM. i i! 

ee 7.30 a.m, to" 8.00 a.m very lo minutes. . 
Head Agency—BaTavls. * 8,00 am.to’ 8.30 a.m, ..E 15 minutes. 
os . . 830 am/to 9. 10 minutes. 
BRANCHES :—Singapare, Penang, Shanghai, 9,30 a.m,to 11. 15 minutes. 
Rangaon, Semarang, Sourabaya, Cheribon, 17.30 a.m. to 12. 15 minutes. 
Tegal, Pecaloagan, Pasoeroean, Tjilatjap, 12,45, p.m.to t. 10 tninutes. 
Padang, Medan’(Deli), Palembang, “Kota 1.45 panto - 1g minutes. 
Radja (Acheen). Telok-semawe (Acheen), » 1.45 pmto 2 to minutes. 
Bandjermasia. (2.16, panto 3.00 pan ry 15 minutes. 


Correspondents 
bo, Madras, Pondicherry, 
kok, Saigon, Haiphong, Hanoi, Amoy, 
Yokohama, Kobe, Meibourne, Sydney, 
“New York, San Francisco, &c. . 


LONDON, BANKERS: ae 
eo THE UNton oF LONDON AND SMITHS 
: ‘' Bank, LIMITE. 


Tee Banke buys and sells and receives for; 
. collection Bills of Exchange, issues | I 
letters of credit on its Branches and corres: } 
pondents in the East, on the Continent, in 
Great Britain, America, and Australia, and 
transacts banking business of every description! 
INTEREST ALLOWED. 


On Current Accounts 2% perannum on daily | _ 


balances. © © Q 
me Fixed Deposits 12 months 44% per annum, 
Do. lo, 46 do, 
Ky , Do. 3 do, 3% do. 
en “ Hoo. 1, ENGEL, 
‘ Agent. 


Hongkong, abth' February, 190% [287 


at Macassas, Bombay, Colom: 3.30 p.m.to 
Calcutta, Bang: 5-00 p.m.to, 8.00 p.m....Every fo minutes. 


B45 pan. and 


5.00 p.m. ...Every 1§ minutes. 


' Nicur Cars. 


9 pan, 9.45 pin, to ILT5 p. 
> every half bonr. . : 


SUNDAYS, 


m™m. 


8.00 a.m.to g.00 a.nt,...Every 16 minutes, 

9.00 ami to 9.30 aim 
: 9.30. a.m, to 10.30 a.m, 
10.30 a.m, to 11,00 i.m, v Every 1¢ minutes, 
2.00 Noon to 1,00 p.m,,..Every to minutes, 
1.09 p.m. ta 5,00 p.m,...Every 1§ minutes, 
5.00 p.m. to 6,00.p.m. 
6.00 p.m. to’ 7.00 p.m....Every 1§ minutes, 
7.00 p.m, ta .8,00 p.m... Every ro minutes. 


Every 30 minutes, 
Every 15 minutes,” 


Every 10 minutes, 


NIGHT CARS as on Week Days. 
SATURDAYS. 
Extra cars at 11,30 and 14.45 p.m. 
SPECIAL CARS by Arrangement at ‘the 


“Company's Office, ALEXANDRA BUILDINGS, 
. Des Vacux Road Central. ‘ 


“;, JOHN D. HUMPHREYS & SON, : 
: ; Liquidators. Sera 
Hangkong, Tath July, 1906 {6 


“Jngurance. 


a 
NORTH GERMAN FIRE INSUR- | 

ANGE COMPANY OF HAMBURG. 
HE Underigned AGENTS of the above: 
; Company are prepared to accept First. 

Z Claus FOREIGN. and CHINESE RISKS at! 

. ‘\QURRENT RATES. , ' 

SIEMSSEN & Co. * 
Worgeong ath Mey, 1895 (8) 


DENTAL 8URGEON, 


DE PERIND ue 
INDORGE 


~ Dipioma: PARIS. . 


Latest Improvements Including 
- «© PORCELAIN FILLines, 
HOTEL MANSIONS, 
‘ * Pedder Street. 
Rongkong, retgjuse, 1906. 


: ve Up, D, Andrews, RNR. ‘July Passage. 
: a Deuta PEROT rn 14th uly, J See Special ¥ 
LONDON, 8&6... stature cae HT ot groertioenachis 


‘ “A second departure from‘ Hongkong to Maceo at 8PM, 


{  .{Ga7 ! “Hongkong, goth June, 1996. 


§ - psTABLISEED 1881.) 

SATURDAY, JUNE 30, 1906. 
7 Sails. | 
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL ” 


STEAM NAVIGATION . COMPANY. 


x . : 
: : ! 
) 


STEAM ERS 


y= hte 


About 4th- } Freight only, ' | 


FOR TO SAILON —- REMARKS. 


‘ 


Ih 
PESHAWUIG.. cas ccocenrnenees 
RNR, cress 3 


‘SINGAPORE, PENANG, CO- 
"LOMBO, PORT SAID and 
MARSEILLE 


E. Spicer, July 


LONDON and ANTWERP 3} 


‘ 


YOKOHAMA vis SHANGHAI, (Nunia out &h y Freight and- 
Passage. 


MOJL and KOBE weer OF. 


DELittitageeseeessnmeie? “Abobt 12th 2 Freight and 


SHANGHAI 


C. L. Daniel ... 


For Further Particulass, apply'to | 


cndent. 


E a. HEWETT, Supenou ; 
a ~ aos 


* Yon, 


skong, jah June, 196" 


a 


The Most Portable Cup Bedstead ever inade. 

THIN TROPICAL . BLANKETS, 

. $3.00 each =, 
|. A NECESSITY AND A LUXURY POR THE SUMMER. 


‘ANE, CRAWFORD & Go. 
Hangkang, 16th May, 19°6 tae, wot as 7 = : ig 
ITALIAN: VERMOUTEH. | 


FRANCESCO CINZANO & COMP. 
-FORINO.) 


THE BEST IALIAN VERMOUTIL OBTAINABLE. 


Telephone : 
“7 CALDBECK MACGREGOR & CO., 
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS, 


15. Queen's Hoad Central. 
a . 46 


‘ 
: 


HONGKONG, CANTON AND 
~~ MACAO STEAMBOAT CO, _ 


LIMITED, | 


‘CHEAP EXCURSIONS TO. MACAO. 


TO-MORROW (SUNDAY), July Ist. | 
‘Time of depariure from Hongkong 10 A.M, fom DOUGLAS WHARF. - 
tt » ftom Macao 4 P.M. SF 
+ | Macttano’s BAND will play Selections of Music. 


| Care WEISMANN will supply Luncheon and Refreshments. 


os ‘PO-DAY (BATURDAY), tho'80th instant, 
See Company's Steamship. 7 ‘ 
[74 


HEUNGSHAN,” : 


will depart’ trom. the COMPANY'S WHARF at 2 P.M. according to schedule. 
Returning depanure from Macao 7 P.3t. : 

. £4.00 

§.00 


Relurn Fare, tit Classesesesmereee 
y " returoing on Sundiy .. 


* Snd Class, available to return on Sunday ..,.0002 2,00 
OTHER RATES: AS USUAL. 


\e 

- Children under #2 yeant Half-Price. N 
must be paid for. gree” el : : 
W.E. CLARKI, 


Acting Secretary,‘ 
ae. ‘(635 


THE MITSUL BUSAN Kal 


ae Public are informed that. my Parlours re open from 9 


* | dations which [ have received from all sources. : é 


© CHITS vill be accepted, and séivants! passages | 


_ $20, rh ANNUM. 
Sint. Cory, to CENTS, 


PPS AAS 
 jtntimations. 


- JAPAN 3Q== 3% COALS. 


- my 


“(MITSUI _&_ Co. 


HEAD OFFICEH—1, SURUGA-CHD, TOKYO. 
LONDON BRANCH :—34, Linz Street, EC. . ‘ 
HONGKONG BRANCH :—-Princu's BUILDINGS, ICH House STRL BT, 
; QTHER OFFICES: Tae 
York, San Francisco, Hamburg, Bombay, Singaporo, Sourabays, Manil 
.Shanghal, Chefoo, Tleatsin, Nowchwang, Port Arthur, Seoul, Chopptp, ok 


» Wokosaks, Bagoys. Osmkn. Kab, Maidzura, Kure, 8 onosoki, ALoji, 
Karatsa, | agasaki, Kuchinotsa, Sasobo, Miike, Hakodate, Taipei, «ec. 


Telegraphic Addross: “* MIf*U1 “ (A.C. and A } Codes), ; 

. CONTRACTORS OF COAL to the Imperial [apanese Navy and Arsenals and the State: 
Railways; Principal Railway Companies and Industrial Works; Home and Foreign Mailund . 
Freight Steamers, . : ; 

SOLE PROPRIETORS of the Famous Miike, Tagawa, Yamonoand Ida Coal Miner; and . 
Kanada, Mamedn, Mannoura, 


_ SOLE AGENTS tor Fujinotana, Hokaku, Hondo, Ichimura, 
Onoura, Otsuji, Sasabara, Tsubakdro, Yoshinotani, Yoshio, Yunokibara and other Coals. 


451 S. MINAMI, Manager, Hongkong, 


D.NOMA, TATTOOER,. 
bo, QUEEN'S ROAD CENTRAL. a z 


AM. all day.” My 32 years! ex: 
‘of good werk and prompt execution, My 


“Anioy, 


Now 
: ohama, 


perience in TATTOOING is a guarantee 
Colours are absolutely fast and perfectly harmless, and produce a chatming effect not attained 
by any other, as their composition is only known tome, H.R, H. The Duke of York, and 
H. 1. H. The Emperor of Russia, both hongured me with their pajronage 5 besides many others 
of High Rank, Prices’ Moderate and satisfaction guaranteed as attested by 3,700 Recommen- | 
Hongkong, 16th November, Fons : 4 _ : ; Iy¢ 
NOTICE.) 
: Ber upon ‘the property’ of THE, 
WHOLRSALE AND RETAIL DEALERS, HONGKONG MILLING COMPANY, ° 
in all kiges of . LIMITED, at JUNK BAY, is PROHIBITED- 


; 3 . from this date without Written Authority from 
APANESE FINE ART CURIOS, TEA ‘the Undersigned. . 
SETS, and SATSUNA WARE, 


NIKKO‘CO..” 


The portion of the \Western Shore of Junk 
two miles ‘from a large matshed soo yards ot 
thereabouts South of the Mill Buildings in a 
Northerly direction to the stream near the 
village, marked Caan Jt on Chart No. 3,279. - 
: A Hy RENNIE, & Co, 
for General Managers. 
Hongkong, 151 June, r9c6 


At Moderate Prices. 
Orders Promptly Executed. 


No. $, ARSENAL SIREET, - “3 
.» Hongkong . ‘ 


Honeknog, 28th April, 1906. | {620 


{510 


HONGKONG HOTEL. 
ee First Crass anp Ur-ro-paTE. i 
Military Band during dinner on Saturday Nights 


H. HAYNES, 
Manger. 


{25 


“Hongkong, 15th March, 1906. 


HOTEL CRAIGIEBUR 
_ Paonxer’s Gap, the Prax, peur the Trax Terminus, ‘Tei. 66, 


o Kor ‘Terms, &c., apply to the ; - 
: MANAGER. 


Honyueny, 2h Laly, rod . 


'gr 


VICTORIA HOTEL, - MACAO -HOTEL, 
'SHAMEEN, CANTON, - MACAO, CHINA, ° 
On THE Britisit Concession. In tHe CENTRE OF THE PRAIA GRANDE, 


EVERY COMFORT AND CONVENIENCE FOR ’ RESIDENTS AND 
ee = TOURISTS. ©. ' ; 
iz Uru FARMER, Proprietor 


“OCCIDENTAL: ORIENTAL HOTEL, 


. FIRST CLASS HOTEL situated in the 
‘ Centre of Praya Grande with splendid 
view of the Harbour. ; 


EXCELLENT CUISINE. 


MODERATE PRICES.’ 


ELECTRIC FANS 
' TO ORDER IN 
EVERY ROOM. 


LARGE AND LOFTY ROOMS, 
Elegantly Furnished. ~ 


EXCELLENT CUISINE., 
| WINES AND SPIRITS of the best quality. 


" 


Eveny ComMvORT FOR RESIDENTS AND 
: TOURISTS, 

For Terms, &c., apply to : 

eae _ THE MANAGER. . 

Macan, 16th October. raoc. | 


EOROPEAN MANAGEMENT, 


ELGIN ROAD, KOWLOON, a 
Hangkang, toth May. 1004 a8 | 


KING EDWARD |CARLTON HOUSE: 
HOTEL. ! HOTELS, ~ 


A HIGH CLAS§ PRIVATE HOTEL. . } Nos. 8 and 10, Ice House Road, . 


LADIES’ AFTERNOON TeA-ROoMS,. | : 
PRIVATE BAR and BILMARD-Roows, : : 
‘ . : Ps LEGANTLY 
Hot and COLD WATER (broughout, - E EY TURN ISHED CONS: 
| EvecrrRicaLLy Ligurep. ELecTRIc FANS; ; 7 : edi? 
* COMFORT OF RESIDENTS AND THE COISINE ; 


: (if required). ” 
' 1 
ELECTRIC PASSENGER ELEVATOR to each! . 
floor. . \ be SPRCIALITIES, 
ries 


TAnLE D'HOTE at sepante tables. * 
For Terms, &c., apply to the— 

- MANAGER.” = 
(30! Hongkong, 71h May, 1906, 


For terms, apply to— 
‘THE PROPRIET 


f 
Hongkeng, a Decembtr, 1905. 


akamitso, 


“ Hay covered by this Notice, extends for about - 


N,- 


Bora HOTELS UNDER EXPERIENCED EUROPEAN MANAGEMENT, -' 


MACAO. ° “i 


i BILLIARD TABLE, the best inthe Far East. 


(29 


ae a 


ieee 


THE HONGKON 


19.6 


T EeSRabet SUUEPaY JUNE 30 
_ sails, 


IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL LINES. 


Srraicinislarr LLOYD, — : 


NtLITALtO AS, 


THE YOKOHAMA 06K 60; Ly Yq 


“Shipping — Steamers 


“ HONGKONG, OANTON, MACAO AND’ 
: WEST ‘RIVER STEAM ERS. a 


ae ; oe No. 1 DocK. . - “No. 2 DOCK. 
| Mecianeakeaaapisgerazarsye | BUROPEAN LINE | atau sn guia | ate SO 
COMPANY, LTD, ; “STEAM FOR antrance, ep 96 {t.; bottom 76 tt. | - entrance, top 60.6 ft, bottes 


te : : r “4 
is . —— . 


“ HONGKONGCANTON LINE, knee 
S.S. “ HONAM,” ‘cssssseee0%)363 toot ........Captain H. D, Jones. ; 
a o- ! POWAN," ce : _ on \W.A, Valentine. 
Hy “FATSHAN,": 


Water on blocks, 27.6 ft. ‘Timo to | it, Water on blocks, 20.8 fh /" 
pump out, 4 a : | to pump out, 2 houts, 4. 


* ‘ . 


sx0ArORR, PENANG, “COLOMBO, ADES, SUEZ, PORT SAD, NAPLES, GENOA, 
ANTWERP, BREMEN/HAMBOURG ; 
eamors will also oall at GIBRALTAR and SOUTHAMPTON to Ina. Passengers 
‘and Lugzago. : 


"Taking Cargo on Through ‘Bills of Leading for all European, North and south American Ports. 


. 


“ese DOCKS are conveniently situated; iu Yokohama harbour and the attention 


> a RD. Thomas, Captains and Engineers is ‘respectfully culled to the advantages offered for Dos 
, n HANKOW," : 00039073 0 » CV. Lloyd. .- VROPOSED SAILINGS FROM HONGKONG.’ ing and repairing Vescls and Machinery of every description, wa 
nw  “KINSHAN," ot 95 Hote on Jy Je Lossins, ” 


“(SUBJECT TO ALTERATION.) |. a 


STBamEns, : : gatuina Dares. 
sustuereuersusasarisnseecsinsinees WEDNESDAY, 4th July. 
tscsiseceassesvassssectarshoeseessstsees WEDNESDAY, irth July,‘ 
.sersoee WEDNESDAY, 18th July. ; 
«oe WEDNESDAY, 1st August 
i WEDNESDAY, 15th August. 
«WEDNESDAY, 2gth August. : 
stssrsseees WEDNESDAY, 12th September. 
NEDNESDAY, 26th September. 
WEDNESDAY, 1oth October, 
PRINZ LUDWIG ... sees WEDNESDAY, 24th Octoder, © 
PRINZESS ALICE... - é t10: WEDNESDAY, 7th November. 
| PREUSSEN secnentemstsecesgensneennees ennenss WEDNESDAY, 21st November. 


Tho plant and toola are of recent. patterns for dealing quickly and cheaply with work, 


‘| and’ a'large stock of matsrial is always at bani, (plates and anules all being tested by i 
| Lloyds’ surveyors). - 


Departures. from HONGKONG to Canron daily at 8.30 AM, (Sunday excepted), 9.RM, 
and 10,30 p.m. (Saturday excepted)," 


Departures fom CANTON ta HONGKONG daily ut 8.30 A. M., 3 Poe and 5:30 P. M. (Suntay 
excepted). 


Theso Steamers carrying His Majesty's Mails, are the largest and fastest op the River, | 
Special eutentien is drawn to their Superior Saloon and Cabin accomniodation. 


Two powerful. Twin Screw Yowboats ar available for taking Verret, id or out of 
Dock, and for taking Sajling Vessel i id or out of the bay. Tho floating domrick j is } capable 
-of lifting 35 tons. : 


SEVDLITZ .... 
: -BAYERN ae 


sevens es oreeseneceeses 


ft is SERVICE.o# tin HONGKONG, OANTON ann MACAO STEAMBOAT CO., LTD. 
‘ Ys HONGKONGM ACAO LINE... , : 
’ SS, * HEUNGSHAN,". sesnssneceen sel 998 LODS yo ccee eos Captain G, F. Morrison, RNR 


|, Steam Launches of Stecl,or Wood, Lighters, Stee) Buildings. ‘and Roofs, ie 
: Work, and all kinds of Machinery are mjade on the premises. * : 


PRINZ EITEL FRIEDRICH ae 
SACHSEN voce 
‘PRINZ HEINRICH 
GNEISENAY 0. 


:. Departures from Hongkong to Macao on week days at 2 P.M, except when otherwis: 
notified by Express, vo. 


ne : ‘ Sunday Special Excursions leaving Hongkong at 10 AM., and asecond depatture about 
PMs. 
Note :—During the summer months the time” of leaving fluctuates to auit - ‘the tide at 
Macao, Sco Special Summer Time-table. 
. Departures. from Macao to Hongkong ‘on week a at 8 Am. On Saturdays a second 
departure about’7 PM. On Sundays about 4 Pa. 


Tenders will be made up when required and the workmanship «and material will’ b. 
Buaranteed, 


The cost of Docking, and ar work, will be foucd:'t to compare faven rably, - ith tha, 
of any pon in the world, 


; Teloplione: Nos. 376, 506, or 681. 
Telegrams, “Dock, Yokohamz,”. dodes A. B. 0, 4th and bth Bat. 


Lisbors, Scotts, Avi, and Watking, - 
Yokvhawa, May 23rd, 1905. 1 : i 


“MINIMAX” 


. HAND : ° 


FLRE EXTINGUISHER: 


‘MINIMAX SYN DICATE, LIMITED. 


Lonbon, Niw w YORK, BERLIN, HaMpuRG, Panis, bic ee COPENHAGEN, 
ANTWERP, &e. 


oy _BLACKHE Al AD & CO.. 


LOCAL AGENTS, a = 


(y WEDNESDAY, the qth day ol: July, 1906, at Noon, the Steamship Z1ETEN, 
paetaia F. von Binzer, with MAILS, PASSENGERS, SPECIE and CAR 0, will ieere on 
tas Powt as above, Calling at NAPLES and GENOA. * 

Shippiag Orders wiil be. granted till Noon, an MONDAY, the and july, C argo aad 
bpecs’ will ‘ve received oi Board uatil 5 F.u., on TUESDAY, the 3rd July, and Parcels will 
ec ceceived at tae Ayeacy's Office uati] NOON, on TUESDAY, the 3rd July. 

Vontonts of Packages arorequired. No Parcel Receipts will be signed for less than $2.50 
ead rarcels should not exceed Two Cubic Feetin Mensurement. 

The Steamer,has spleadid Accommodation und carries a Doctor aad Stewardessés. 

.ipen can be washed on board. 


CANTON- MACAO LINE, 


ies “SSS LUNGSHAN" wesc 21 1OMSs...0.e006 Captain 7. Hamin, 
‘ irae ee This steiner leaves Canton for Macao every Tuesday, T Phursday ‘and Saturday at about 
ben? .8 4.4; and lerives Macao’ for Canton every Monda ay, Wednesdiy aod Friday at about 7:36 A.M. 


[39 | 


Jorn SeRvicn ov THE H. K., CG. AND MACAU STEAMBOAT CO. Lip. 
THE CulNa 3AVIGA-TION COMPANY, Lr, AND THE [NpO-CHINA STEAM Navigation 
. Company, Ly , 
, ; ‘ - CANTON. MUCHOW LINE, : “ 
3.5. "SALAM". Captain J,, Willox. 
toy NANNING, “ iste, Ge Butehatt. 

One ‘ot the above steamers leaves “Cariton for ‘Wuchow- every Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday at about 8 a.m. “calling ut Yunki, Mahoning, Kumchuk, Kuu-Kong, Samshui, Howlik, 
Shiu-Hing, Luk-Po, Luk-To, Lo Cig: Han, Tak-Hiny, Doshing and Fong-Chuen. Departures, 


from Wuchow (or Canton calling at the above ports every Mooday, Wodnesday and Friday at 
_ About 8.30 AM, 


Fares —Canton to Wuchow. 


L 


RATES OF PASSAGE MONEY. FROM HONGKONG: 


; ist Class ‘and Class, 3rd Class 
2tV NAPLES, GENOA & GIBRALTAR ... ‘£6100. £4200. £22 9. 
ROMEN coecerssererseesesseesistsenseceseee 91.20 6300, 33. 0 O. 


tO'SOUTHAMPTON, LONDON, BREMEN 
and HAMBURG 0:0. : 


65. 0,0. * 44,0. 0, 24! 00, 
97.0.0 °6600, + 36.9, 0, 


“Returo . serene 
Single 345.00, Retura $25.00, 


" FO.NEW YORK via'SUEZ: Do : Parreeorer 
Canton to Tak Hing, Single $12.50. Return $21.00, ‘ViA Narins, GENOA OR GIBRALTAR 4. 64.0.0. “440.0, 26,0. NO ean ino efiective ee He ATID nt 
Canton to Samshut «Single 57.50. . : REtUrE oy. escsasenessveressee ade « 508% 79.00% 47.0. OS un Ou by K 2 ‘Di Tae ee . 
‘The “abuvé vessels have’ superiar Saloon and Cabin saccommodation suds Pur e higited Via BReuen ae SOUTHAMPTON «68.0.0. ..46.0. 0. 27, 0. °. xg ily Varnis crosiae Oil, Tar, Beazine. 
throughout by electric uy. Meals charged extra. . Rear 13.00" 830 ‘00 Guaranteed to remain in working order for any length of time, 
Further parts iiais taey byt ainet 6 “he Ofice of the— ia the event of the passenger leaving the ail Steamer at Naoles, Genoa or Gibraltat and SIMPLEST HANDLING, 


HONGKONG, CAN LUN & MAIAG STEAMBOAT CO., Lt, 
: Hote! Mansions, (First floor; oppose tae ee 
Ov of BUTTERFIELD & SWIR 


-travelling to Bremen or Southampton overland THE SAME RATES 10 I'd. APPLIED.AS VIA 
Naples, GENOA OR Guprattar, hut jw this case the cost of the railway trip, etc. to be at 


passeoger’s expense. 
TOUR via INDIA: fe x -- 


Paisengers have the option of using a Staamer of the British India S. N. Co. from 
(50 | SungaProrE TO CALCUTT\ instead of an Imperial Mail steamer feom Singapore to Colombo. 
‘The cost of the journey from Calcutta to Colombo by rail or steamer is however sot included. 


Interruption of the Voyage in Egypt: : 
ce : 
Passengers to Europe and New York are entitled to ‘travel by the N..D. L. Mediterranean ‘ 


Steumers from Aloxandria to Naples or Marscilles instead of using an Imperial Mail Steamer 
Jj ftom ort Said.“ 


JAPAN- CHINA-AUSTRALIA. LINE, 
‘VIA NEW GUINEA. ~ 


STEAM FOR MANILA,. SIMPSONHAFEN, PRIBDRICH.WILHELMSHAFEN, 
HERBERTSHOEHE, MATUPI, BRISBANE, SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE. 


Drive wthe Kuod sad the apparatus is in acti at immediate! y, sending Spuy nearly 40, foes, : ’ 
joscness IMPORTANT LOIN’ TS FOR G CONSIDERATION. : 
entorratizere——— 4 M. I NI M A ae Always redo immadinn u 
Cen ba aed by anyone, evan lady L bh ght only! Iba, when {gil 
Minimum of Price, Weight and Sits. Masel of SPS ont ah 
Honyker yg, roth May, 1405. ; (33 


TAKOUR Hotel, 


Agents, CHINA SAIGON CO, LTD, 


4 “Monge mmacientte's 27th June, 00 | 


“CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY COY? 
ROYA!. | ATAL. STEAMS 41? LINE..:: 


yi 


PROPOSED SAILINGS’ FROM HONGKONG, . 
; * (Subject to alteration). 
STEAMERS. : . * TONS. SalLina DATES. 
PRINZ SIGISMUND.. : sserseee TUESDAY, 2qth July, 
WIL LEHAD wacncersenes -TUESDAY, 21st August, © 


Swaxury—Bpoed—Punotuality. 

The only Line that Maintains a Regular Schedule Service of 12 Ways across the. Pacific is the |: 
“ Empress Line.” Saving 3 to 7 Days Ocean Trial.. ' 

12 Days YOKOHAMA TO VANCOUVER. 21 Days HONGKONG To VANCOUVER. 


‘ N, LAZA R Us, ‘OPHTHALMIC OPTICIAN, . 
_. 8, PEDDER, “STREET, ' HONGKONG, : i. q 


Wi test your eyes free of charge, ge, and if they are wrong will (Pue them cight.- 


eo. 


; es Lenses Ground. . All kinds of Repairs. Spectacles for all jeunes 
‘ : : “ ee SUA 5 : 
oe : PROPOSED SAILINGS. ; (Subject to Alteration). CMINE WALDEMAR TOESUAY, xBEn September. Ask, or write, for Mlustrated Booklut on “ Defective Sight "free, 
RMS. Tous LEAVE HONGKONG ARRIVE Vancouver - Lonpon, . _* Cancurra, | SHANGHAL, 
: ‘ ‘ . (\N TUESDAY, the ath day of July, 1906, of “Hobe the Steamship PRINZ sy Bi : . 
eS .  # EMPRESS OF JAPAN”, so WEDNESDAY, July (1 scccseseeAUguat 1 SIGISMUND, Capt. D, Lent, with Mails, Fassengors and Cary, will leave this port are Street, Bediord nee W.C, ~ ° 59, beatinck Street, 566, Nanking ae 
| #MONTEAGLE"... sess wuWEDNESDAY, July it, s Atigust tf | i ae a i a : s ‘i onykong, 27th November, 1905, : i 
: > c « teamer has Splendid accuinmodation an carries a octor and a alewardess. 
“2MPRESS OF CHINA 8 nuWEDNESDAY, August... .. .August 22 spe - 
: Lines can be washed. on board. Ww I . Mv 
“ TARTAR"... é : tc WEDNESDAY, August 8 ..,..-.September 1 eee VEN EST RIVER BRI ISH STEA SHIP CO. Co. 
7 “ EMPRESS OF INDIA". 111116,009.,.-+.0 WEDNESDAY, Augusl 22.:......,Seplember 12 


. RATES OF PASSAGE MONEY F kom HONGKONG : 
‘4s}Class and Class jrdClass. - tat Clase and Class 


“TO MANILA... + $50.00 530,00 $20.00.,,Return $80.00 $50.00 
TO NEW GUINBA..,. ~ £8— £1840 £14.00.,Return £42.00 £27.15 


“HONGKONG. KONGMOON er KAUKONG LINES. 


$8. “TAK nINC." + 


st every Sauna: Tuxspay, and Taspiv, aT 7 PM., for the above, Ports, i 
THE KounpD TRIF OCCUFIES ONLY 36 Hours. 


HE Quickest route to CANADA. UNITED STATES and E URuPE, cabling at SHANG- 
T HAI, NAGASAKI, (throngh the INUAND SEA OF. fAPAN), KOBE, YOKOHAMA, 
VIOTORIA,. connecting at VAN TOONER ath the’ COMPANY'S PALATIAL OVER: 
LAND TRAINS FROM THE PACIFIC TO THE ATLANTIC WITHOUT CHANGE. 


Hongkony' to London, st Class.........0hf St. Lawrance £60. Vid New York £62. TO BRISBANE. Le— £2.- L14-—..Retum’ £54.— £36.— s 
Hongkong to London, Intermedinte on ‘TO SYDNEY... we L— £L23—- St5.—..Return £59.10 £41.10 HONGKONG-WUCHOW LINE, 
‘Steamers, and rst Clase Rail a £40. ‘a £42. E 


TO MELBOURNE 


~ £410 £2410 Retum £62.5° £44.5, 
TO YOKOHAMA.. . $80.00 $60.09 , §40.00.,;Return.§170.00 $120. 
TO KOBE. . $95.00 | $7000 $60.00...Return $170.00 $120. 


TO. YOKOHAMA. & back from 
‘KOBE to HONGKONG aoe  ieised $100.00 


RM.S.“MONTEAGLE," “TARTAR” and “ATHENIAN” carry “Intermediate” 
Passengers only at Intermediate rates, affording superior accommodation for that class. 


pire a . Passengers Booked through to i! principal points and AROUND THE WORLD. 


SPECIAL RATES (First ctas¢ uty) granted tq Missionaries, Members of the Naval, 
- Miltary, Diplomate and Civil Services, and so European Officials in the Service of Obina 


S.5, “ LINTAN ” and SS." SANUS" 
- Satine Twick a Wzex. THe RcunD TRip ocepries Sh Days, 


HE steamers sail from MONGKONG w SaaillUl, SHUINING, TARIING and WucHow.. 
: They pass through the Canton delta, and steam up abou 159 miles through the cree 
aad beautiful aie | ofthe West iiyer, 


and Japan Governments. wee a eed for the Boust ae aaa sr 830 ‘5 
Yor farther infurmaticn. Kaps, Routes, Hand Hooks, Rates of Fre ghe’ and Passage, ese steamers hays ixcellent Saloon Accagquqodation, an are Lighted by Eleetrighty, 
applyto D Ww. CRADDOCK, Acting General Agent, . THROUGH RATES oF PASSAGE MONEY FROM oe ee : For further habe asec apply to~ : BUTTERFIELD & SWIRE, 
Hangkony, 27th June, 1 yeb Gorntr Pulder Strat and Praya, oppostte Blake Pier, (13 to EUROPE via AUSTRALIA knD COLOMBO by ‘tunperial Mail “ es : : ‘ WEST RIVER’ SRITISE BB, CO 
ipriasescrs > SRO OY ccssile “aicaon eoaianane seater spider aneeoudantiinon 97. 9. 0. ~ ? y 


Saar ; H . ‘ 
HONGKONG-MACAO LINE. STEAM TO CANTON. __, Hemexona, 


re 
ae New Twin Screw Steel Steamers 


To EURUPE. via AUSTRALIA AND AMERICA «ws 96.0 0. 
. From Australia 0 New York via Vancouver. Now C, P. R. Cole atoumers, oF Via oan |" 
Francisca “by the O. S. S. Co's Steamers, and from New York to Europe by the magnificent 
express steamers of N. D. L. d 


‘nagkony, 23rd December, 1935 


' . S.s: “WING CHAI,” _ “6 
; ‘ me T. AUSTIN, RWK. ' "Tons aptain 
es beset a /sxWwONG. CHOW"...1,309......T. R. MEAD. 
HIS Steamer departs from Hongkong on! “KWONG TUNG ",,.1,238,0.R. RAMSEY. 
Week Days and on Sundays,at 7.30 4. My! Leave Hongkong for. Cantop at 9 every 
and ‘returos ‘from Macao at 3,30 PM, as on ! evening (Saturday excepted), 


_ | Week Days. : Leave Canton for Hongkong about 5.30 
"FARES :—Week Days. ¢st Class, including | O'Clock every evening (Sunday excepted). 
Qabin and servast, Singic $3; Return Tickel,) These Fine New Steamers have unexcelled 


_ SAILINGS OUTWARDS, 
EUROPEAN & AUSTRALIAN SERVICE. 


For: STEAMERS AgouT 
YOKOHAMA & KOBE ..,,... PRINZ SIGISHM UND* ...100 on MONDAY, 2nd July. 


: BETWEEN + 
\ 7 JAVA, CHINA, AND JAPAN, 7 + 


5; wnd Class,-$1; 3rd Class, §0 cents. Accommodation for First Class Passengers and SHANGHAI NAGASAKI, j BAYERN esersevtssetrseenceeris oe WEDNESDAY, th July. Steamer. Babeciod. on Wilkleave for = | On or about 
gunpays ONLY. ara ti throughont | by Electricity, Electric Fans SHANGHAI, NAGASAKI, . a ane er ig sis Soe ee I a 
abt ‘in First Cabins, C = 
tat Class—Siogie, $2; with Cabin, $2. Maisons bears Jourveya.Sg | KOBE & YOKOHAMA’ } perwz REGENT LUITPOLD...WEDNESDAY, 18th Jay. SfLIWONe: First hall JAPAN via SHANGHAN ” Firet bat 
jiat Class~-Return, $2; with Cabin, $3. | | Meat’ soeSt each, * * Reaching Yokohama in less than 6 days.” : . ; July : - July 
3rd Class~Bingle, 40 cents; Return, 60 eats. : : - THTMAHT use First hav. |: 0+ PORTE Firat halt 
es ee sre 2 TRANSPAGIFIO THROUGH MOKETS FROM HONGKONG, July ae 
i ee ee ha ad cers fey SATURDAY, Vig VANCOUVER OR SAN Francisco To NEW YORK by the'G, P, R. Co‘esleamers,| TJIPANAS \. Second hnif |. JAVA PORTS. First hall 
First Class Passeogers, who do not cure (a{ returning on SUN AY at 10 ass, and 6.30 | P.M. aa . Co,,0. & O. 3.5 ' Fon,7 ee K, and on NEW yORk 40 RUROPE by the July August y 
retun on the Excursion Sunda , will be allowed | P.M. Magni cent Eapiess stearners 0 the Nord leutscher Lloy are issued at tho following rates : rat me eats: i ADA w SHANGHAI Fisk xa ‘ 
to do so the following day (Hinday) op prs) - ( tet Class single 4 with cabln $2.00. ‘ : ; tat Class vy JAP... a ‘! ale |p as ie 
y ARES: t : N. tose q ‘ 3 
Seoteamer natin an ose Meaday anes sivctenm ‘So.8t, rena Soe Se LONDON 1s PLYMOUTH of SOUTHAM PTQ on 7 2 "The Steamers are ul fitted throughout wit! !Irrtric | teht and hove Accommodation (or i pe 
the Boiler cleaning, due notice will be given} Breukfast, Tiffin aod Dinner $1,00 each, TO PARIE sa ay HE al : ceabieeas . és. a = 4 Hipied secrbex 2h Baloen Passengers, and wii) take Cargo to all Netherlands India Porta Se 
: 7 eserves ever . . ap through Bills of Lading. 
es Malable for ths fellowing ay ae eae ofthe nae Weuken Varia Sonne theo TO NAPLES, GENOA ‘VIA: GIBRALTAR. ‘s 8. 0. a For Particulars of Freight and Paspayer anply ‘ ayy na 
te: = The Steamer is lit throughout by Electricity. | Harbour Office. : . : THs IE AD AGENCY Fe 
* Tho Steamers wharf at Hongkong ix at the SHIU ON 3.5, CO., LD, and _ NORDDEUTSC HER. LLOYD. aN eae 
®—. uestern end of Wing Loft Bireet. -  YORN ON Sa COL LD. Fox (arbor Paricslare, ply Rieaa a _ JAVACHINA APA LR, 
. BAM WANG Cor No, 8, Queen's Road West : " MELGHERS & 00., ~ Yorn No tat Floor, : ‘ . 
\ _ weartors: wand June, 1906. . fee Hongkong, goth rend 1got, _fr8 Hongkong, 2h June, iki : -AGENTS. (2 Hongkong, 19th June, 1906, ‘ - tg: 


: : RNS ee ' aMtrwed te The Editor, 1, Tee Mum Road, ant | kang, - for exdmple, “we are tempted: 
8 ee ae “ont ba aerompeintnt oy the Writers Name and lig smile and wonder how the writer 
. eugises, Addrow, : " oO. 
= Paes sins - a Ortimay beigess cenprendea ane should be atitresse! foame by that fellow” feeling which makes 
“ yk Bi Caos! een ung iy eet to The ae : ; acs him’so wondrous ‘hind, The despised 
f P ‘The Fditor will net inlertska to be reapomible for : aN Sis 4 hae 

» A. d. WA SON 4 GO., wig. ivete MA. nto rear any Contribation, [and ignomnt: artificers and mechanics of 

: ‘ . LIMERLED ) SCRIPTION TAPER CIN ADV ANCK. he Hougtong and Whampoa Dock Gom 
' ak, FY . TATLY—S30 pee pomm, d pany Have now reached the, depths of dis- 


‘ "PURE WATER. : 
: ee een 
. ; aa HONGKONG, SATURDAY, [UHR 30, 19% 
UP-TO-DATE PLANT.. —_————ss—a—__=z" 
POO BP EE iy Tet DUCK COMPELITLON Ie THE 
THE BES! OF MATERIALS FAR BASE, 
“4 ‘ i ‘ a ne 
= 5 BE One of those rabid, and entirely misleading 
PXvHRT MANIPULATION, | articles which have for their object the dis 
: oe patagement of the British enginegring and 
ast All these éoiditians ate Oblathed an shipbuilding cerita ty Ae Ear East ap 
| Waters of op manufacture: an ‘| pears in the latest issue of Commterciad in- 
Absolute Purity. Repeated analysis telligener, a week periodical whose declared: 
: oth Jocally and at home gtarantee this, policy is the fostering of British interests the: 
Up-to-date Plant. Quer. potiey is te world over * Unfortunately, the journal in 
ccuntuually: antreduce every mddeia in | question seems tobe puided by the princip!': 
provement in machinery and appliances and 7 that the best methed of encouraging British 
although such changes are invariably tostly | igade and awakening British merchants. to a 
in the firat’instance the results attained is oe ee 6 ES , 
‘ Porfeet. Actation and economies in |Prert realisation. ‘of thy effects of foreign 
“working jusily them. | eomprtilion, is to decry British industries, 
. The Finest Materials only are used. | furna lind eye to ‘the progress of-Eiritish 
’ bnglish Exports tianage Kae factories, | COMMETEED and frighten British investors out 
: and our Witers ate acknowledged) by lead ol the market. [tdves not seem te conipre- 
«ang English Makers ‘to be equal ta those of } hend that such a principle 1s more calculated 
. © their own. manufacture, “1 to inflict grievous injury on’ flourishing, con- 
These sesulis have oaly been obtained | coms. and re-act unfavourably on those li 
; Uoagh, constant expapment Che adverse} qish jiivestars who, whether [rem' patriotic ar’ 
: Saat eat ee eae other iotives, lave stink thus capital in 
Agiated Waters, necessilatmyg spiccial study.” ‘Colonial enterprises; Uhan to contribute to 
Our Stone Ginger Beer isthe onls the promotion of new schemes or lead to 
y suecessfal, production ut its kind in Tropica: the diffusion of new British: capital in over 
Countries... HL atonee became popular ans | seas undertaki The article referred to 
A. increasing sales testify toin rasing popula: emanates Irom a Shanghai orrespondent, 
neamer beverage. , : the aggrandisement of the Japanese -en- 
tf OF, : | gineering and shipbuilding yards at the 
' i" ; . arn expense of the establishments in Hongkong, 
AN ‘ Ss. W APSO N & GO. - | Shangh and Singapore. Seldom have the 
: 4 Peet PETE : Japanese yards enjuyed.such a‘ panegyric at 
‘ ‘ ea sree : -_ the band, presuaably, of an English writer; 
f ESTABLISHED SD. riya. butthe appreciation would havebevn ol vastly 
Hinagkang, 208 Jane, Wud. { wiealer value had the correspondent confined 


a 


i dentinvatio ns. ; : | a Seles Intewtes! bit 


NONCKONG TELEG ¢ 


hileation: in 
fi showid te 


Wrinny—$13 ip anmitta. 

Tho mites per qanrteraid por aenecn, proportional, 

Tho dally insue ix Molivered trod when the add reven i 
nceeaiie to tyes Oteconin sent hy port at 
additoun’ £1.38 per qaarter is ctiarged for postage, 

The potagi on the weekly isue lo suy) part of. the 
world je AO eenbe per qnactec., F 

Single Caviee” Daily, cen conte: Weekly, twenty 
Hive cetsta ‘ “ 


ARATED WALGER 
+ MAAUPACLURERS. 


In the manufacture of [gti Class. Mineral 


Whe fjongiong fH equaph 


Waters the fallawing are essential» ~ 


It is adimit- 
ted by. all that the enterprise and progress 
of the Japanese in building docks and “con- 


strucling vessels ig worthy of +h frag ula 
praise, W ithin a few. years Japanese ship- 


hig remarks to, inallers of ‘fact. 


GRECOR & 00., 


leamed in European countries and taught 


by British and other experts who have been 
i mployed to enlighten our allies in 


t.. The Japanese have applied 
themselves assiduously ‘to the task of aéqui 
ing Western methods _iind that they have 
sueteeded none can deny. But when itis 


1, Que LNCS 


TOAD CEMA L. 


aresult of this temarkable ceal they have 
outdistanced all othets in: the race lor mas- 
tery particularly in so far as shipbuilding, 
shipepairing and engineering are concem- 
ed-—we must respectlully decline to admit 
the contention. “In the course of the artide 
in Commercial liteHigence the writer say: 


“A striking fact about the Japanese ship- 
‘uilding and dock concerns is that they are 
all capable of accepting and carrying «out 
building contracts, of ‘ considerable magni- 
tude, which is not the case with any. other 
concern anywhere: East of Port Said. . Of 
contse, they shave to import a considerable 
amountof their material, but so have the 


- GHIANTI WINE, 


‘VROM U. FAZZINL. FLORENCE, 


THE HONGKONG TELEGRAPH SATURDAY JUN 


more technical knowledge and skill than, 
the trained British workmen in: Hung: 


grace. . “Iine, the Admiralty experts in Eng: 
land have but recently Intished Jencainiam s 
on the skill and -efficiency, of the socalled 
inept workmen at Kowloon, and have 
held out their performances as worthy of 
emulation at) Woolwich and ~ Devonport. 
The “shrewd “managers of local shipping 
firms have heaped praises on the Dock 
Company on account ofthe character of thie 
vessels built for Far Kastera requirements ; 
but that is of no avail. The Shanghai cor- 
respondent of Comsercind Enteliryence knows 
nothing. of these ‘things atid cares less. 
When the Government of the: Straits Settle- 
ments expropriated the Tanjong, Pagar docks 
it did nol consider it necessary to discharge 
summiatily the ,old staff of mechanics, etc., 
onthe ground that their technical know- 
edge was il, and their presence" a menace 
tu the prosperity and efficiency of the docks. 
Yet they are far inferior to” the Japanese 
workmen in brdins and initiative if we are to 
believe the Shanghai panegyrist. [tis dis- 
concerting-to find that, all these years we 


wrights and engineers have absorbed and 
turned, to practical advantage the_Jessons. 


claimed by them, or on-their behalf, that as. 


have been living in a. fool’s paradise, but 
‘there is one consolation—we may yet reform 
our ways before we areswamped by the all-, 
conquering Japanese. The mechanics and, 
shipbuilding experts at Kowloon must look 
to their laurels ; they ‘must furbish up their 
technical knowledge ; they, must show that 
English and Scotch engineers and  sbip- 
wrights—specially “selected: though they 
might have orginally bees from first-class 
and workd-famed yards int the United King- 
dom—-can yet kgep in the van, of progress 
‘and compete on terms oft ‘equality | with 
the sturdy islanders inthe North. And yet 
‘notwithslanding all this rigmarole about 
incompetence Bnd ignorance most people 
will retain their faith ‘in the abilities 
of the European engineers at) Kaw. 
loon and at other places in the dfar East. 
It may be foolish and an evidence of mental 
decadence, but there the matter stands, 
despite the enthusiasm of the pro-Japanese 


writer in Shanghai. When he adds that ‘the-| 


Japanese purchase a higher class of material 
from Jititish ‘factories than the concerns in 


Hongkong, Singapore ad Shanghai we' can’ 


only characterise his assertion as ridiculous 
and absurd 5 it needs no comment. The 
clusing temarks ate decidedly ovivohiero tse 
HE Tay phan Of thveaeny Feet Tea difficult to sce 
anything bright in the prospects of those 
dock companies working in Hongkong or 
Shanghai, and 1 must -again ‘very strongly 
advise British investors to abstain from pro- 
viding capitalfor any-such concepn that is 


likely to be offered in London.” Itmay be 


that the author of that warning’is a dis- 
interested witn 
mutives and? sincerely anxious _jo-save the 
British investor from ruin/Zbut therNGs a 
curiously unsatisfactory tone about the sen- 
teuce. Tt tings hollow.and falls as flat as a 
piepared peroration, One gleam of hope- 
fulness is left—the British invester in all 
probability will. never see the served of mis- 
statements which appears in this wonderful 
effusion from Shanghai... ae ae 


sk, inspired by the purest 


POLICE PALICOLS IN is ONGKONG, 
——_—_—_-#—---- 

Yesterday, ‘a correspondent residing in 
the Eastern district of Hongkong drew at- 
tention to a subject which seems lo be the 
principal topié of conversation in’ that 
locality at present. : Ivis maintained .that 
from Wanchai to Causeway Bay it is the 
exception insiead of the rule 10 meet one of 


- pwsue his nefarious ‘profession in the quiet 


« or ot 


- Latest award: 


RYTS ‘PER CAsE, 


~ GOLD MEDAL. 


ST. LOUIS EXHIBITION. 


: Mace ; any shipbuilding and engincering yard in 
2 CASH Leas 10°, Great Britain but even of the private yards 
- ..  OREDIT LESS 5, 


. ., Hongkong, goth June, 1906, (gts } tuggested that the Japanese appear to have ' ance 


others. ‘There appears to be considerably 


(sme eehiieal Enawled eas ekill. athe the'law’s myrmidons, aud the Suggestion is 

: : 3 ¢ | that this lack of police supervision is respon- 
private ‘yards of Japan than in any of the | inte forthe numerous “outrages” and thelts 
cOneEENS working in the British possessions which occur in the disuict: It can well be 
of the astor in China, What is more,.the | understood that the fact of a lady being 
class of material purchased in Great Britain | tiable to an attack by a baitd of scoundrels 
by the Japanese yards $s’ farhigher than is | who may enter her house in broad daylight 
the case with similar,concerns at cither Sin- | is causing ‘the gravest concern among the 
gappre, Hongkong, of Shanghai.” ‘hese |] residents. During the daytime. most of the 
are suggestions which will appear “amazing | houses aré practically at the mercy of prow- 
to residents in the Par East. A eulogy of ling thieves, who have previously made 
Japanese dockyards might receive a consider: | themselves acquainted with the, habits of 
able meed of approval even from rival under? | the various households. and act accordingly. 
takings, but when itis submitted asa factthat | 1 most of the houses there is nobody pre- 
the Japanese concerns are all in a- better | $eMt. with the exception of a defenceless 
woman and, perhaps, one or two domestic 


‘position to carry aut builling contracts or 
undertake repairing work than such under 
takings as the Hongkong and Whampoa 
Dock Campany, the Shanghai Engineering 
and Shiprepairing Company, or the new Gov- 
ernment institution, the Tanjqpy Pagar Dock 
Board, a chorusof dissent will bé aroused, 
The- Hongkong Company ‘can point to a 
record of achievements which would have 


bare jdea that-a gang of cut-throats was’ in 
possession, and even if they were valorous 
enough to stand by their mistress their efforts 
“to repulse’ ‘the miscreants would be feeble 
Jin the extreme. It is said, with what degree 
of truth we are unableto say, that practical. 
ly every house in Morison Hill Road and 
i Leighton-hill Road has been systematicail 
added lustre to the reputation not merely of Paresh within the course f the ia 
six months, It is not so very long 
sh ago since an American was “held up.” 
of Japan: ‘That may appear to be a pre- | jn a ricksha in the same district by « couple 
-posierous averment in the eyes of the Japan- | of thieves who flung pepper in his eyes and 
ese enthusiast in Shanghaf, but the fact re- attempted to overpower him... That they did 
mains and is incontrovertible. When it is | not succeed was duc more to the stout resist- 
offered by the visitor than the presence 


nator wea EM we ee 
7 - 


poe F > 


servants who would. fly for their lives at the’ 


baad 


E 30-1906. 


et 


of the police. Of course, it is 2 hackneyed 
saying that the police are never where they 
are wanted, but we would not ‘endorse’ the 
rematk for a moment. The police in Hong: 
kong-have an onerous and’ dillicult duty ta 
perform. “They have to handle a cosmopoli- 
tan population judiciously, and patrol & 
large aren with a limited foree, But it- cer 
tainly dues strike the average reader ocean 
sionally that-much power is lost by indi 
minate raids on hawkers and gamblers, with 
the tesult that the real criminal’ is left to 


‘residential sections of the city undisturbed: 
by the fear of the lawin the persun of a con. 
stable, While pétty crime must be held in 
check, itis bighly essential that no part of the 
Rio itiata ater aioe felon. Certainly, 
when a case occurs similar to that “reported 
the other day, when a lady was attacked in 
her private house and dangerously wounded, 
people are apt to become hysterical and 
throw the entire blame ‘on the shoulders 
of the police, forgetting that even, a cou- 
sstable “cannot be. everywhere: at once. 
But there: seems to. be ao doubt that 
‘a revision of the areas patrolled is high- J 
ly necesgary. If the beat allotted to 
weach constable involves his absence from 
any particular spot fur an extended period 
&ftime then the remedy is at hand. Hong- 
kong can well afford to pay for additional 
men so that ‘the districts my be reduced, 
anl a feeling of security iniplanted in the 
minds of the inhabitants. At present the 
Wanchai‘population, if'we may" judge’ from 
various reports, live. in an ngony of appre: 
hension, fancying that every knock. signifies 
the ‘arrival of a marauding band. “The 
picture may be exaggerated, but that is the 
impression conveyed, and it behoves the 
“police {6 dispel the alarm of these under 
their care. ‘ 


LOCAL AND GENERAL,- 


————>_— 


Tue French mail of the ‘2h May was de- 
Uvered in London on the 2gith inst. oe 


Ma. J. Dyer Ball has been appointed a deputy 
tegistrar of ‘matiages, with effect from the 
aznd instant. dh Ge . 


Turik -cases of plague have occurred since 
yesterday, all Chinese. Two of the patients 
have succumbed (to the disease. 


Tuy, King's exéquaiur empowering Mr J. 
Eilzen (p be consul for Norway at Hongkong, 
has received His Majesty’s signature. 


TUR proclamation dated the 25th April, 19-6, 
declaring Singapore to-be a pore at which an 
‘jniectious or contigious disease prevails, his 
been rescinded, y 


Liavn ef obec (privilege lenve) to the 
neighbouring country has heen granted to 
Lieutenant RF. Dilly s2gth Baluchis, from 


“ath July (o 8th October. 


THe King's exequatur empowering Mr. Amos 
Parker Wilder to be consulgeneral for the 
United States of America at Hongkong, has, 
received His ‘Majesty's s:gnature. - ; 


TH Honouratle Mr. Fdward Osborne and 
Mr. A, Denison have been appointed members 
of the Authorized Architects! Consulting Coth- 
mittee, vice Messrs: R. s+. Shewan and William 
Danby. a. 


APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of 
lelegraph clerk in the .Harbour Department. 
Salary ; $1,082 year, rising by triennial incre- 
“ments of $120 to $2,040, The Colonial Secretary 
stales‘ that applications are invited ftom 
Ponnguese. 5 


CHAN Yuen appeared before Mr. He A. J 
Gompertz, at the Magistracy to-day,. charged 
with stealing a brass propeller, on Tharsday 
last, from Kimberley Road,.Kowlocn, The 


Chan adinitted the theft, und was sentenced to 
one month's hard labour and to be exposed in 


the stocks for six hours. . . 
¥ ! 


J. Duncan, chief engineer, s.s. Knutsford, took 
out a- summons yesterday aguinst C. Bevis, fire- 
man, of the same ship, for assault on. the high 
seas on 14th June. When the case was called 
onby Mr. F. A- flazeland this morning, the 


mons be withdrawn, saying that the matter 
lad been amicablpPsetifed. His Worship can- 
celled the summons accordingly. 


“ 9, f did not steal it. [took it out ofthe 
shop.” What difference that made is known 
only ta the coolie who made the statement be- 
fore Mr. H. H. J. Gompertz, at the Police Court 
‘this morning, He was charged with stealing, 
or, according to the Chinaman, removing 
several baskets of tea, from a shop at Kowloon 
last night. ‘The owner of the goods said that 
accused had no authority to remove the tea, 


hard Jabour and six hours’ stocks. 


LAST night there was a row atthe Tai Ping 
theatre and the police had tu be called in, 1 
appears that a Chinese coolie whe could not 
get what he considered a good seat in the 
auditorium attempted 10 reach the stage, A 
ticket-collector approached the coolic and ‘told 
hin to get off. The Chinainan refused andhad 
nét only to bethrown off the stage but out of 
the theatre altogether. When the coolie arrived 
in the open he picked up a good-sized brick and 
hurled it at the ticket-collector, striking thaman 
onthe side of the face. The coolie was given in 
charge. Hewas placed before Mr. H. H J. 
Gompertz, at the Magistracy to-day, and said 
that the ticket-collector trod on hig toes last 
night. He objécted to that and struck the 
Fgh Hees weitie going en 
t! : ip qdered him to pa: 

fing often dollars,“ aor ae 


propeller is the property of. Mr, H. S. Holmes. | 


plosecutor appeared and asked that the sum-' 


and his Worship sentenced him to one month’s. 


Band of the 129th Biluchis, on the New Parade 
Ground, on Monday next, from § ta 6.30 pam. — 
Overruse tourer eM Vaya” eeseaes 
Iuterme:ro.un" On the Koad lo Moscow 
Selection . fhe Flying Syuadron ” 
Sonata Vathetiyuc 
he Alabama Minatrels 

“ Montebanks" 
God Save thy King, 


Reinalger 


Kappy 
dteethoven 


Tut Bishop of Victarin announces that he will 


resume bis lectures to ladies next month, In a 
cirtular which he bag issued with reference to 
ther fer, he says that he proposes to xive a 
series ua! lectures on (he general. subject of 
“The history of the’ gseat nations af the wortd 
as foretold in prophecy.” He will deal with the 
history of the empires of Egypt, Assyria, Baby- 
ton, Persia, Greece, and Rome, © Allladies ate 
cordially invited to the lectures which will’ 
be held as torfhetly in Bishop's Lodge, every 
Thursday, at 11.45 A.m,, commencing on Thurs- 
day, sth July. 


A GAMMLISG warrant was’ executed by the 
Kast Police nt No. 27, McGregor Street at 8.30 
o'clack this morning, and twenty-five men were 
marched to the Station, Two of them were 
charged atthe Magistracy this morning with 
keeping a common gaming ‘house at the pre- 
mises mentioned andthe others with ganibling, 
Evidence was beard'to the effect that the two 
leaders were professional gamblers and had 
been previously convicted. Mr FLA, Haze- 
land fined the ‘two.leaders $rco each, the 
others: having to pay $2 each, the gambling 
implemenis aud money coptured in the raid to 
be forfeited to the Crown, ae 

Mussp5, Gregor and Company were “at home” 
this moming in their affices, No. 19, Queen's 
Road Central, when the list of prize-winners in 
the “ post-card competition” was issued. From 
this it was seen that Mr. A. E. da Silva was 
the winner of the first prize, having made 510 
words out of the name" Marie Brizzard,” while 
“Me 1S, P. da Silva, with 491 words, was second, 


There were also ten consolation’ prizes, chiefly 
won by ‘Indies, which were presented to the 
winners by Mr. Mowbray Jones, maoager of 
Messrs. Greger and-Co, Success to this en- 
terprising firm having beeen drunk by the 
assemb'ed company, the proceedings termin« 
ated. é ae 


“ MR AL f. AlAs fiONOURKD. 
te 
it is notified in the Government Gacelle thi 
His Majesty the King has been graciously 
pleased to appoint Mr. Alfred J May, late 
scéond master, Queen's College, to be a mem- 
ber of the Imperial Service Order, 


MACAQ EXCORSIONS. 
' ——_—e——_—. . 
a THE “MEUNGSHAN." | ' 


Ht will be noticed fiom the advertisement 


will leave for Macag al 10 a.m, to-morrow, 
July ist, instead of, asusual, atgam., In this 
Conneclion we are mquesled ta mention that 
this change in the lcur of the’ vessel's departure, 
only referé 10 to-morrow, and is necessitated 


will be, as usual, 9 am, until further notice. 
J“ RWONG TUNG" AND “KWONG CHOW.” 


af at het usual.hour, on account of the tide al 
Macao. , : d 

The ss. Aweny Chow will leave for Macao, 
.as usual, at six o'clock this evening. . 


THE OMICA STIGMA. 
+ 
M B'S WHO WISH TO TL ND 4 DEMORALISING 
s 
TRAYFIC, 


We take the following from the Asforniag 
Leader of 26th alt. i— : 

A number of M.U's who-are anxious to re- 
move from British wile in the Kast the stigma 
of association with the opium traffic were enter 
tained to breakfuct at the Motel Cecil yesterday 
morning by the Christian Union for the Sever- 
ance of the Conncction of the British Empire 
with the opium traffic. . 

A score of M.P.'s'wete able to accept thé 
invitation, but this number does not represent 
the full strength of the anti-npium feeling in 
the present House, Special interest attached 
to.the proceedings in view of the fact that Mr 
Theodore Taylor, MP, will on Wednesday 
Next move a resolution condemning the opiuni 
traffic with'China. ; : 

. JAPAN'S EXAMPLE. ‘ 

Lord Kinnaird, who presided, was hopeful 
that a new era of public opinion on this ques: 
tion was dawning, especially as Japan has sit 
Great Nntain av fine example in dealing with 
the opium evil in her dominions, 

Rev. Jr. Horton recognised that the revenue 
of £3,000,000 from the opium traffic with 
China was one: obstacle in the way ol reform, 
but, surely, he argued, as it was a tainted 


| revenue,-a precarious reventie, and, moreover, 


a diminishing revenue, the great British Em- 
pire ought ta have sufficient courage,to ‘sacrifice 
it based, as it was, on iniquity and suffering 

“China is awakening,” said Prebendary 
Wehb-Peplae, ‘and no man of high position 
in the schools or public life is permitted to 
smoke opium; in fact, it would be ag much a 
disgrace in some circles in China as it would 
be for any of us to be found drunk in the 
Strand today. Yet the British Empire pours 
tons upon, tons of opium into China to de 
morale the population—in some cases, in the 
past, at the point of the sward !" 

THE COMMONS OPPORTUNITY. 

“Wednesday next is Derby “Day,” snid the 
fey. FM, Meyer, “and a large number of 
M.PJs will no doubt go to Epsom Race-course, 
Therefore, when Mr, Taylor’s motion comes: 
on there will be eliminated from the Housoa 
-ood many of the mare frivolous elements that 
might be-inclined te look with contempt at 
the great moral crusade again the opium 
traffic, : 
Mr. Herbert Roberts, M.P., Mr. D. M. 
Smeaton, M.P, (whoasa Financial Commis: 
sioner in Burmah gained wide knowledge of 
the ravaged of the opium evil}, Mr, 4.5. Wil 
son, M.P, ra is a member of the Opium 
Commission), 


Rowntree, and other speakers ncartily sup: 
parted ths anti-oping crasada, 


and Mr, DE. Carvaihn, with 4.49 words, third. J 


a 
PROGRAMME of muyic to ba performed by the 


one: [From Our Orn Correspondent] 


. "The (fire broke out in the coal 


{the ‘name of the Rev.’ William Rader io a 


“TELEGRAM 

“HONGKONG TELEGRAPH” 

 SERVION, 7 
“AMERTCA MARU" 

ABLAZE! eo 

COAL BUNKERS ON FIRE, * “€ 


‘ ’ sind © 
VESSEL, DUCKED AT. SAN FRAXCISCO, |. 


Shanghai, 0th Jtloc, | 
eo, O80 pam, 
A.serious fire oceurred on board 
the stearishiy) Amertea Maru, 


bunkers and the flames blazed f urious- 
ly for a considerable tiie. ” 


After an oxceptionally hard struggle wile 
the fluinca were extinguished, but’ 


not’ befure considerable damage had 
been done to the vessel. 

The America Afaru has been dock- 
Traneisco. 
EE ta tm 
CHINESH MHRCHANTS IN 

e fH RISCU, e. 

& . . f 
“THE FUTURE OF CHINATOWN, 


ed at, San 


An interesting contribition,to the wriings 
on the subject ef the recent carthquakeand— 
fire disaster at San Francisco appears under 


'Friscu contemporary. ‘The article is ns fole 
lows :— j ork . : 

The Chinese behaved themselves very well > 
during the luc onpleasaniness. “They have‘ 
beer treated with consideration by the authori- 
ties, «und in nb sense neglected. Chinamen 
miay not be adepts in putting aut American 
fires, but they are obedient ana do whatthey 
ate told to do. 

Chinatown had been, for many yents: a 
peculiarly attractive section of our city. Many 
curious Easterners went there to see vice, In 
recent years (hese vice hunters were disap- 
pointed. Qn the contrary, they: found shops 


appearing elsewhere that the ss Henngshan’ 


hy réaso. of the low water over the bar.” After! some other place, but some of the Chinese 
to-morrow’ the hour of departure an Sundays | have a sight to stay in the Chinatown ditrict, 


The ss,.Awong Targ wil leave for Macap’ 
to-morrow, Sunday, fulv ist, at 7 am.,-instedd 


| time, Chinese exclusion has given - place to a 


Mr, Amold.Lupton; M.P., Mr | sying the German Mails with dates from Dentin | / 
J. Allen Bater, M, 2, Dr. Maxwell, Me. Joshua | of the sth inst, left Singapore on. 29th inst, st 


filled with rare bronzes and bric-aybrac, and : 
Horgeous restaurants and joss houses, and ‘ 
theatres where the Chincso drama went gn in \ 

its noisy, unique fashion. There were Christinn 

m 


ions, schools‘ and churches, and every in- 
dication cf pogress. a 

The real San Franciscan thas not been. 
blind to thesanitery condition of Chinatown 
and to the need of certain reforms, but be x 
is sorry for the logs of the Chinese quar- 
ter with its traditions and Iandmarks, Hels, 
sorry for John Chinamas, The ever-moving 
piclare, of the busy street of Chinatown has’. 
gone forever, Now the question is: What 
shall be done with the Chinese 7, eos 
‘Whatever may be cone with them, this we 
must do, viz, give them a square deal. Tho 
yellow merchant whose plates and bric-a-brac 
the, looters are disposing of on Market street 
should receive some: consideration from our 
hands. They own upwnrd of 60 per cent. of the. 
land in Chinatown. There they made their 
money, and established. stores, © lt may be | 
decided to collect them,at lunter’s Point or 


rand: there they should remain. ° : 

It does not Seem right to take advantage of 
a preat disaster to show ourrace feelings, and 
drive away the Chinamen who suffered wilh us, 

There should be no discrimination madebe- =F 
tween the Chinese and ather merchants. : 

We are dealing with local problem, and 
one that has really nothing to do with Chinese 
immigration. These people have been here 
for a long time, and probably will bo here 
for some time to come. They have been burn. ~ 
ed out and have suffered with us. The men 
who established themselves in Chinatown, 
purchased land and owned large stares should 
have the same epportunity to recover them- 
selves as other San Francisco’ merchants, 
Their lands cannot be confiscated and their 
husiness destrayed. We must deal fairly with 
these men, and give them every chance to 
succeed in the new San Francisco, - ‘ : 

The fire did some good, not alone in the 
Chinatown district, but in other sections of tha 
city, Gone are the aldtine opium joint and 
underground, retréat snd pestilential alleys, ' 
und the iron-hariow house of Chinese pro- 
stitution, Gone also ure the white tender. 
Inin, the hell-holes of vice under Ameri- 
can management. These will never reappear 
precisely.as they were, ‘The Chinatown of 
the under world has been wiped cul, aod 
should never be resurrected, but the higher 
fe of Chisatown should be recovered and ‘ 
protected. The Chinese institutions, news. 
papers, resinurants, missions and miagaificent 
shops have a right to remain. ‘There is no 
reason why they should’ be sent to Hunter's 
Point or any other place, Let us have a purg- 
ed Chinatown with all of its fegitimate attrac: 
tions and none of its objectionable features, 
As there willbe a new San Francisco, so let 
there bea new Chinatawn, Now isthe ting to | 
lay the foundations tor such a section. 

The Chinese—some of them—have given: 
substantial aid in the building of San Francisco, 
They are notio be set aside in the name of 
religion, or color, or nationality, The man 
who raisesa question of religion or color in 
these days isa bigot. Bigotry has no placoin =e 
a crisig:-AThis is not thatime to split hairs, 1t 
is the oppoituvity for justice, fair play and gen- 
erous treatment.of all men, 7 

There is ‘every reason to believe that the 
Chinese will be jastly freated. !n these trying 
hours they are not without friends, For the 


policy of Chinese protection. ‘ 


* - 

SHIPPING AND MAILS. 
‘ ‘ oO z i 

. .. MAILS DUE, 
Canndian (Mfonteagle) ist prox. he . 
German (Bayern) 41, prox., § p.m. 
Canadian (Zupress of Japan) 3rd prox. | ; 
American (/fongkong Afaru) 7th prox. 
Indian (Wamsang) vith prox. 
Canndian ( 7‘srfar) 17th prox. . 
American (Korea) T&th prox. 


The Great Northern 5,3,- Dakota fram Seattle 
sailed from Shanghai yesterday afternoon, at 
I pm. By : , 

The C. PR. Co.'s a0. Kuspress of India 
deft Yokohama p.m., on 29th inst., for Victoria 
and Vancouver, ; _ ‘ : 

The Impenal German Mails, Baydrn cate / 


toam., and may b: 90 Std pr es 
sea g expeled hong oa grdprazy ie 


os  Shtppiag—: 


eee a PUI CERI ec yay ) J MANCHUR Aes, 
q : pe en a gear ae . : > : 7 : : oe et . . are en stat 
e “OGHAN STEAMSHIP 00.,.LD. ae NOTIGE TO CONSIGNEES. "|: tn Menu ibe & Go matt ee, 
bs ; MAN UM ie ea 2G-AM ‘ eran ees : wiek we read the following! ; 

: ; at ‘ ks P.& 0. S. N. Co's Steamer. “The present impasse in trade wilh Mag: 


2 «JOINT 8 


* GHINA MUTUAL STEAM NAV. 
é ¥ a : re nee F 


WAY = 


JUNE 
cal. » GCoksignees. 


LAADE CONDITION 


SAN 


Ateqiner, 


| chyria cgntinu-s, but when it is considered that 
“tha quantity of goods on order which have stil 
to.come forward are daily lessening, and thay 
during (he last six moathg. of last year clear. 
‘} ances were about equal to the prosent volume x 
of stocks riow in the godowns, abe causes which 


 “DEVANHA * oY 
FROM BOMBAY, COLOMBO AND 
Soe “STRAITS. 
Consignees of Cargo by the above-named 


G0, ED. fA OR Es 
E. 


"SERVIC 


HRVICHS, | ae | ods EAS ASIATIC 


ne PORTA GHTLY SAILINGS FOR LONDON AND CONTINENT. | ee ee Ss s Ree Nretie how : , , C 
t r WN GH TLV SATLINGS FOR EC Aas. : pane ae ne a y informed that their Goods are:| contribute to this lack of trade cannot restrain | 4 
S i oT MONTHEA SACLINGS FOR LIVERPOOL, = * in, SS HOME-LINE. " being landed and plead their te et the | penal consumptive demand for an indefinitely, 
. 4 : epee nn ee he fe he a Pees i S\2 oan Hongkong and Kowloon Wharf and Godown | lengthy period. _ 
PARKING CARGO ON THROUGH CBILLS ' IF LADING FOR ALL KUROPEAN, . : 7s : : 4 . . e Company's Godowns at ‘Kowloon where. each oDarne the week there has been mucli pris 
“NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICAN, ‘WEST AUS FRALIAN, JAVA ro : OUTWARI. NG . Sg consignment will be sorted out Mark by Mark, | vate and newspaper discussion, based upon.the’  *.., 
pa AND. SUMATRA PORTS. * : STHAMERS _ DRSTINATIONS. 5 Bt - TO.SAIL: and delivery a be obtained ‘as ‘soon,qs the investigations by t a Shanghai merchants 
; ‘ opaga nia ep anctae S bes a “ard July. Goods are landed. : with regard ta tral anchuria, as publish: 
yi . . satarasn ate hays ALESIA we YOKOHAMA ‘4nd KOBE vervaseenungceguas 5rd. July. This vessel brings on “Cargo _ _ 4) cd in our last issue, & propos of which it may ot 
Hg ‘ VUROI BAN SERVICH. SPEZIA.. .SHANGHAI, YOKO! AMA, AND KONE. goth July. From London, &c., er SS. Afoaltan, be pertinent to: quote Article [lq clause 2, of 
Ae ee TS +L SAMBIA vases SHANGHAL YOKOHAMA ann KOBE ith July From italy, poker ts Convent ony belo Mae Bg. os 
. : TPA Db. tee viel ifn : sto i ; : oo apan an sia (a restore catirely and com. 
on wens : é pe tte pun” | SAXONTA sresssereaeS HANGHAL, YOKOHAMA and KORE tt 25th July. From Australia. 2 iy igcheexinnioy adm tnatrdtenel China “ 
GLASGOW. and LIVERPOOL .. . "ORES re goth: June. / ~~ HOMEWARD. Z , é From ‘Caleutta. ea , at ortions of Manchuria now in occupation: ‘ 
GLASGOW and LIVERPOOL .. “OANFA " . ath July, : : : : : k, pai ds vy (> From Persian Gulfyex 1.1,5.N. and Hi, & p, | or under control of the Japanese or itussiany 
GLASGOW and LIVERPOOL, " ASTYANAX 25th ows ©. Canes at shrongh Rates te ANTHERP, AMSFERDAM, ROTTEN DAM COPENHAGEN) 1 8.N,CoJs Steamers... trovpr, Further, an article IV: Japan and 
SAL ASGOW and LIVERPOOL. “LAERTES © thn 1 seam, Qeanto, London, Liverroot, Guaigow, TRISTE, GENOA, PORTS.AN THY) Gotional Goods will bs landed ‘here unless Mel ane: Eee oy ar tein 
GLASGOW ant LIVERPOOL * POLY PHEMUS 2th 4 sere RACK, Sta and BALTIC PoaTs; NextH aed Soury AMERICAN PORTS). instructions are givén te the contrary before xeneral stearures common to, all comtrias 
GLASGOW and LIVERPOOL “ \CHILLES" ao 19th: DA as aa mt e which China may take for, the development 
. CAS SOW and LIVERPOOL «NE CINOUS” ee ed CR ERAN ‘CHAVRE, ANTWERP, BREMEN & HAMBURG, - . | @bours, Beet toca Sk of the commerce and’ industry of Manchuria. 
CASHOW gil LIVER BOO © "DLOMED.! wa ad AagUst, See ale ef and NAPLES for Landing Passengers, GR July. jt" |“ Gaaits— not—cfeaged by the. sth July, at | In view of the fact that Japanesg trade, to. the 
SCASUOW ind LIN  RPOOL “TELE WACHUS gids a PER Pn OIE ese (Calling at S'rort, Penance & CoLoMno).. - : ‘ARAL, will be subject-to rent, "| practical excluding of that of all other mations, is. - 
GLASGOW and LIVERPOOL. "PELEUS" +» Qs SCHWARZBURG wee (7 HAVRE ‘and HAMBURG, ‘ J aqth July No Fire Insurance will be effected by me in, | iow passing, duty and likin’ free, through the al 
GLASGOW and CIVERPOOL LU GHING Wo". coe OIG ‘. Capt. Faass. . { (Calling at Strort, PENANG & CoLomno). Sve ay anyense' whatever, © : Pee ayaa ie Soy point a ihe 
Thess. alent Singapore ¢ marni inst. and is die | n the gth prox. BS : E ‘a BURG Damaged packages: must be left in the ior ve ne railway, an 
POSE a ne Sa iota on a rae ee eee Aaa ane { PE et nt ee ‘Cotomro). } 7th August. Godowns for aeaaniwation by the Consignee’s Father, that aie Chinese Customs at, New- 
HIO DIBA ATELY : ‘ “DEZL “ HAVRE fund HAMBURG. . yb and the Company's representative at-an ag edie a still in the hands, of the jepanesa 
© it ie STREAMERS Po sat 45 Cee uuller” {Catling Stoun, PENANG & COLOMgO). } aist August. | pointed hour. as - HL aaa oe ey agi fe Soule sheet, 
LONDON, AMSTERDAM & ANTWERP UAPAXE oo Succes ard July, tet ¢ s HAVRE and HAMBURG. * aa All claims must be presented within ten days | tive, nnd fends’ weight to the query whether, 
yup SILESIA... NAPLES, HAVRE 5% rf n wel : 
CONDON, AMSTERDAM & ANTWERP “ PROMETHEUS tz vy { stort . gth Sept. | of the steamer's arrival here after which date | even if or when:China he allowed to re-estab 
“GENOA, MARSEILLES Se LIPOOL “PATROCLUS "., Vaoth 4 4" Capt. Bahl } (Calling at S'ronu, PENANG & COLOMBO) =F they cannot be recognised, vo en ee sovereign rights in Manchuria and 
LONDON, VMSTERDAM & ANTWERE "PING SUEV" Bist. a *This steamer, specially built for the tropics, has splendid accommodation for first class No claims will be admitted after the Goods | collect her own Customs dues, the recent treaty 
LONDON, AM RDAM & ANTWERP "“ORESTES otgth August | passengers. Very.large, well ventilated cabins,’cach providert Wilf two beds (no bunks), sof, ) hive left the Godowns, : ‘. | between Japan and Great Britain which speci« 
TGENOA, MARSEILLES & L'POOL Dee zoth ‘ay | table, two wardroves, two washstands, clectric fans, eteiy” fe elegantly furnished saloons, ; E. A, HEWETT, - fies that Japan's measures in regard lo Oueg 
‘ ‘ .* LONDON, AMSTERDAM & ANTWERP “ACHILLE 5 smoking room, etc. . if as ae é i Beye . 7 
5 HAVRE, ROTFERDAM, & LPOOL "'ALCINOUS"™. i ” Smonne steamer is lighted throughout by electiicity and’Zarries Doctor, Stewardess and | so june, oe , Seu Koptary to Mee Bi aciels eh cenet 
: <r * faking Cargo for-Livspool ‘at Lendon Rates. « Wasbermen. |. : : paso te a F : _ Hongkong, ayth June, : < ‘| ailsu equally meaningless 2" 
; eee er ‘The “RWENANIA”: is to run- regularly (ram Yokohama, Kobe, Shanghai, Hongkong, | —--——: A : aon = |e inehtilics are by Messrs, Ubait & Co. «at 
ppety WAP ACTELO SUHRW EOE Singapore, Penang and Colombo to Suez, ‘Bert Sad, Naples, Havee and Hambury 10 be LOSTON TOW BOAT COMPANY. it is perhaps worth while to add ‘to the 
AUING IN CONJUNCMION WITH follows by 5.8.“ HANSBURG,’ 5.8. * HOURNSTAUPER, 2:5; VO CAND IY ‘ands, SUAESLA, : Seicregreaay quotations given above from the Treaty of 
: ONT NORPBHERN PACUEIC. RAILWAY CO. ; COAST SERVICE : ; , ‘NOTICE TO CONSIGNEES: | * sfonsineath pascal Article Lal He supsleniee 
AND FAKING CARGO ON THRUUGH BILLS OF “LADING ‘TO "ALI. J, . : Wen, et ah palyy Pa a oe stein , [Re Taaperial Goverament of jane and 
OVERLAND Lait pO CA STATES AMBRIA ....ce10e SINGAPORE AND CALCUTTA wee wf Freight, sake Se vote mv aes lussia enatually engage to cotniuiees the. o 
‘ * AMIE a . : ao * . . th Jul . : ‘| FROM, Ey )t f . | withdrawal of their tilitary forces from the ter- eae 
aa e : : yi ; LYDIA ....... joe SHANGHAI ann CHINKIANG* ana es and Passengers. : MOJI AND MANILA. ' nloryof Manchuria simultaneously and ime,” 
. a © HASTWARD. : ; : : : : . thes : 3 mediately after'the Treaty of Peace comes into 
ree oe ee ree MAM ERS | tesatt || LYEEMOON ...... NAGASAKI anv WLADIVOSTOCK.... ha eileen enon Ge i oe ee a ee 
ae SKATTLE : and V1 QAN ICA "“hasssesssesssessseceesenes th July. “ Siete ay . eae Lt d ‘TILE above Steamer having arrived, Con- | months * from that date the: armies’ of 
se trie cou ee PORTS vi 2 ee {ITHAKA ssc SHANGHA Tissecsssnssscscsnsene + cecsen gern te cree sa ‘ I ues: pd Carn ete evel ene to | the! two™ countries . shall be completely ~ 
se eer ae d YORQHAMA) “TELS MACHUS So. pee suste : ‘tac End of July," . send-in theirgills of Lading for Coantersigna- | withdrawn from Manchuria except {rom the 
RAGADARK I ROME oad ZOROHAMAS “PRLS MACIUS! cocoon a ARRUSL | DAPHNE scree oe NAGASAKL AND WLADIVOSTOK ‘acti, Pyetgtt aul Danscaneei(aere. ant to ke immediate delivery of their | jcased terntory of the Lino-tung aaa 
WILESTIOVIAR DD. 0° \ } KOWLOON.....4.SHANGHAL AND CHINKIANG.,,......... ‘To follow, . “| Goods front alongside. : : aes forces of thy ine countris occupying 
x rae PROM ViKAM . 2 enti “He of Ladi Aeros P 7 Cargo impeding the discharge of the Vessel | te front positions ‘shall be first withdiawn, 
OWA sent weTamla aan ine =: ‘ae alee * Taking Cargo on through Bills of Lading to Chemulpo, all Wangle and Northern Caina ports. will e lanied and stored at Consignees' risk'|! “The commanders of the Japanese and 
: PACIFIC COAST us Matsa s CTY DEUS", sUgth August, Yor Freight and Passage. apply to * . Ss -. sand expense. . " we, : «| ussian forces in Manchuria shail sgree upon 
tranetenneeerseoens 2 : ao HAMBUMG-AMERIKA LING, - Fl ‘lL be effected by us in | the details of-the evacuation in conformity with 
: : . Be . : No Fire Insurance will be effec y us i beh 
for Mrencht, appty: te oe ante 2 , i : . HONGKONG UFFICks | any case whatever. ; : eS the above principles, and shail take by common 
f BUTTERFLELD & SWIRE, For steamers of the Coast Service marked } to = are os : A “DODWELL & CO.., LIMITED accord the measures yecessaly sacha out the 
. y AGENTS. : ; awe ¢ SITEMSS . CO. : . - = evacuation as soon as possible and in any case 
, Hongkeng, got June, 1306 - b3 Hongkong, goth June, t99h. : EE Rees arenes ene P(e ictoiren ng ge i ara 
_Mamplomge SOU b Jame Wa e0 a a NR AEE ORY TOT. * Hongkong, 29 e, 1906. ' The 
‘ : ea k 2 : 3 . (N. S$.) 1905. On the and of December fol- 
CHINA. NAVIGAT: ON CO. . LIMITED. INDO CHINA STEAM NAVIGATION Co., LD. INDO-CHINA STEAM NAVIGATION | lewing Japan bad. already | coneiged ee : 
; , i lew : . “ STEAMERS. : To Sa of, : : a = oa - oy , os COMPANY,'LIMITED. i eeemenis for the restoration of Manchuria, oer 
SHANG Lasse ‘ SHAOHSING "' + wtb July. (PeopneTED SaiLines FROM ,HONGKONG.—SUBIECT TO ALTERATION). is ERECTA, PEN ANEAND SE er ae cucaiacarlacia et: . &£ 
AMOY and SHANGHAL * KIUKIANG "'t aid eee a aa RROM.CALCUTI Lee (lements at-Mukden, and other’ cities, have 
MAWTLA ccc res eens TEAN"'* J... add og : : : he . “ ; SINGAPORE, already been carried out. Russian negotiations 
CEBU and ILUILO . ie *SUNGRIANG "iu... fb 4 oe For i oe Steamship “On. ca tne iat Chisa seer ae the rae, oi the 
. . eT. z . 7 : s aie . sai oe - ees 40 '« oe "CHE C 5 St hi ‘northern part of Manchuria are still hanging fire. 
SWATOW, | WEI-HAIWEL CHEFOD} . HOTCHOW "eeisre 13th SELANGHAL csesceieisssessensadonsescei OLMQV SANG dye SUNDAY, tst July, Daylight, | THE Company's Steamship Se ened cuca (sie 
ENTSIN ssssesstssecceiennnsnsersnceeteee . : S'PORE, SAMARANG & SOURS BAYA.CH VNSANG ..e.. BUESDAY, 31d July, 3 PM. “ LAISANG," on that Japanese tratlers are so completely: 
MANILA, ZAMBUANGA, “PORT. DAR: et : P paeeiecen Stati oe 2. AISANG, — fed with their trading advant Dal 
WIN, THURSDAY ISLAND, COOK! « gyrygtu "+ y fae © TIENTSIN sescssnotsscressssiee esaeeenn HE ONGSHIN G* WEDNESDAY, 4th julyt4 P.M.) having arrived from theabove Ports, Consignees | ,f hela heir tending acvantngct at Dilays =: 
TOWN, CAIRNS, “TOWNS i 7 i aaah we S'GAPORE, PENANG & CALCUTTA..LAISANG* .,.,.. THURSDAY, Sth July, 3 PM. af Cargo by her are hereby informed that their | ihe main justly made. A de utation of forty- ‘ 
BRIS ANB SO NEY GM ia tos oe : MANILA . VPUENSANG * ,..FRIDAY, 6th July, 4 Pm. ‘| Goods will be delivered from alongside, seven merchants has recently gone to’ Man- 
Vfalong Canes ca through Biis ol Ladi. 16 all Yangtsze and Northern China Ports. : Sac case gage Ea OI as i‘ 4 : Cargo impeding the discharge or remaining | churia with much the same investigating pur- 

; “oye ate ont Passenigers 1 clrecida » : the Superior Accommodation offered by these t Taking Cano on through Bills of Lading to Chefoo and Yangtsze Ports. on board after 4 P-Mu MONDAY, the 2nd July, | pose as the British and American delegation 
ateatoen, Wh + fitted ‘throngnout will Electric Light. Uorivalled table. A duly | * These Steamers have saperior accommodation for First-class Passengers, and are fitted will be tandedat Consignees risk and expense. Irom Shanghai. Inthe Japan Aatiwe read ¢ 
quabtrd Sager 1 6 ated. : j ; ae : throughout with Electric Light. . . | No Fire Insurance will be effected, the Ae Coe Seca ee, me- 

‘Taking Cargo : Sener i all New 2 : ; : . : ; ; ‘ adi ; ate : morialised’ the Governor-General of Linotung, a 
; sash Faking Cargo and Passengers at through Kates for all New Zealand and other Australian For Freight or Passage, apply to Bi, ‘ Bills of renee Oe an General Baron Oshima, an. the subject ne 
Fh . Fer Freight or Passage, apply ta” : : : J " + 4 South Manchurian enterprises, The me-. y : 
" . ae: ’ bale aR » ADP au TE FE 1 . JARDINE, MATHESON & c0., , 3 General Managers. + morialists make several points. Jn tho first < 
‘ ; * TTER FELD & SWIRE, 2 : arene alta es ~ General Managers. |} Hengkong, 29th June, wot. ‘+ {64 place, while acknowledging that they hava : 
} . ; | AGLNTS, | » ig Hongkong, joth June, 1906. i sak : ‘ J 2 6 | —— —————_ 20 become acquainted with the official policy 
; : poe : ee (QaneaneeicRcL r  n ere S.S. “TONKIN." wake fallevay sg ey aah TE oe eat in 
' : : oie war ey SE Coe: : : publishing some statement of the carrying Capa- 
HONC KONG Mi ANIL A PORTLAND. & ASIATIC STEAMSHIP CO.]  compacnns pes wessicenies.: Hy gid eer ampere 
; a 7 ze er : MARITIMES. af res offered by the Liao, Rive 
i] : eee : transport resources offered by ao, River. 
: , wt PKOPOSED SAILINGS: FROM HONGKONG, via SHANGHAI, INLAND NOTICE. TO CONSIGNEES ‘fn the secopa place; they aan that the- large r 
‘ . vide oats if : : : ‘ wES. i } Ee Fe 
Se oN ea “SEA OF JAPAN, -MO}I, KOBE AND YOKOHAMA, Ee ey Shel nich ans ured for 
‘ Highes! Class, newest, fastest and most luxurious Steamers . . u FOR ee : anita of Cargo se Tenis storage purposes during the war and is now 
U een ae ee sabi ng . Be ex 3s. Charente and Afedoc, and fram | jyin, cant, should be appropriated as quickl 
4 betwaen “Hongkons and Manila.—Saloon amidships Electric _ PORTLAND OREGON ‘Havre ex 88, Madoc, in: couaantian with ah Se Ie fhe Raikice of eaehonses ey 
‘ Light~Perfect Cuisine—Surgeon and Stewardogs carried. . : . ; pee 7 . hecho pe — hereby: solenaed that |.t,‘other commercial needs, To the same. 
: most’ : : : ‘OPERATING, I20. CONNECTION | WITH . their Goods, with the exception of: Opium, | context bel an application that'a num 
i the most up-to-date ‘arrangements for comfort of : a ; 0 ‘ At se j ane 5 Treasure and Volushiee are being landed and He a buildtags, which. aervads for eters : 
aBaengers. 1 a : : 5 K AN } i 1 stored al their risks into the hazardous | ing | warlike. materials while | Japanesé 
‘ ‘ : 2 : tease THE ism Q pe 0. HAVIGAT ON COMPANY. . andfor extra hazardous Godowns of the Hong: imine necupied Manchuria, but Bc are 
CHINA AND MANILA. ie Steamship ye prs “Captain ‘ To Sait at Daylight .on kon pand pela Whos and jureows Co. naw lying idle, should be = once utilised for 
' “4 Pr eae Se : . wimited, at Kowloof, whence delivery may be | merchandise:. Again, while expre: Bing satis- 
STEAMSHIP COMPANY, LIMITED. CNUMANTIA' wsdl iedg7oceneeFeldimaon July rath. | obtained immediately after landing. fretion that the whaves have been placed at 
=e a ; = . “ARABIA” .. 3 141483 00000. Metzenthin bee ba August 14th, ' Optional Cargo will be forwarded on unless | the disposal ol the general public, they com- —g, 
ooiy Toms) Gina” | Far | Sag Dates PP ARAGONIA od 599g ns September ih, _| ato sex frome Conseree [lincie tae gh Gnauer pt wach ens 
co = : . . | : “ NICOMEDIA” «100 4570s GaMeisner oe ,September 16th. landed here. : . them much dissatisfaction is the fact that, thus 
ee aes ! | : : ea -Through Bilis of Lading isstted 10 Pactic Const Points and alt Eastern, Cnoadian and| Bills of Ladiog sal be eountersined by the ain cricsinal Aritueas eee See ce weal 
“ ' Ine ( z “ F Onited States Points. For,thyough rates ‘eight and further information, communicate | Undersigned. _ Goods remaining unclaime: . H ae ‘ . 
HUST ssreeernsen see 254 R, Almond. tANILA (DIRECT) SATURDAY, wh ley) Oia oem i ii Ss cad : » Com Undersigned, eos rene a Noon, | without the existence of cil courts business 
- ZAFIRO sesso; 2540) R. Rodger... \ . |Sarurpay, 14th July, 6 : ‘y §. SILVERSTONE, Acting General Agent. will be subject to rent and landing charges. aneretene cannot be conducted with any de- 
etseees vezi . ] . = ‘ - 3 gree of securily, and they advise the immediate 
: iat Noon, * : ° ee All claims must be sent in to me on ar before | formation of such iribunals, The medical in- 
rine aes ae 23 a “GLEN” LINE OF STEAMERS,- | . Yutimations the, ath July, or they will not be recngnised, spection arrangements at Tairen are also con- 
oo re 2 oe : : ? _— at ! ¢ All damaged packnges will be examined on } demned as very inefficient, wilh the result that 
a y 
me ee _. SHEWAN, TOMES &, CO,,|. ror tonpon anp antwerr, © \ 5 WEDNESDAY, the ath July, at 3 P.M. ships are sometimes delayed fruitlesaty for . 
: a GENERAL MANAGERS.” : T= Steamship oo ae yn THE HONGKONG No Fire Insurance his bec effected. * several aye Finiily they condemn in strong 
rae —_ veer) goth June, i906 ; Iz - " % Lo, ae: G. pt CHAMPEAUX, lerms the system of granting passports to 
Me Or seg tied * “ne ting akon aN a a Rs ora ‘ he ati * 5 < . Japanese desiring to travel northward of Pulan- 
: me ; ; % ¢ , “GLENESK, 7 A Lae STUDIO, are ; ‘ : Arent, tina by rail, Pulantien is. the point where the 
ae a 3 ; AW 5 Captain J, Rafferty, will be despatetred’ az f° HIGHER CLASS PHOTOGRAPHER, Hangkong, 27th fune. 1906 (11 | sailway emerges fram the arca Jeased to Japan, 
: A et ‘ = | above, on’er about the rothyjuly. i 4 & 43, Quren's Road CENTRAL, Tee and in order to pass it going northward na 
= ar . : a): se > Soft ; ae: -NOTICE TO CONSIGNEES. special permit is required. The memorinlists 
: toy rade ae a ' For Freight and Passage, apply to : Tor Froor. es say that long delays are coused by the re. ; 
: Hl) Eaw igi a SS “McGREGOR BROS, & GOW. *}.. =— MGLEN" LINE OF STEAMERS. | gelation, ‘Therais ng valid reason why delay” 
: : : ; ean Hongkong, 18h June, 1906. . (633 pera GROUPS ang ENLAR | : : , should be entailed, bias for the passport sys: ~ 
: AMERICAN -ASIATIC = Ra fs GING and COPYING in all Sires. FROM ANTWERP, MIDDLESBORO,, | tem, we do not see how it can be immediately Qj 
STE AMSHIP fete ORIENTAL FACIFIC-LINE, 2°! 4 -cnecénemarae on Verve wave’ --|, CONDOM COLOMBO SND SALTS apelin er sade, weercinn oe 
se : . . a a ames : : TPHE Steamship ‘ Tairen, for permission to merchants to use © : 
i : on HAND. : r ; - Aer " ; 
: Mots aaa : FOR YOIKOHAMA anp SAN FRANCISCO, ;- tees cipher, and for the extension of the parcels ! 
: x ‘ Sa ees es T= Steamship f as Dalen Sy Nopaiat “GLENTURRET" post to Manchuria It is altogether a very 
- . . - “ : ‘ aM ee RI oo : . : : ractical memprial. Pe es 
FOR NEW: YORK via PORTS AND SUEZ CANAL, “I DAKOT fe ; j Hongkong: 1th Sentamber, yer (65 beak dt ecele nie addel nung gtr P The fact that these representations are being 
(With Liberty to Call at the Malabar Coast). : D ‘AH 7 } : ‘ argo by ner ay y Panic aes er} made by Japaneses merchants will be, of cours: 
- care . : F eh ene. fo | Goods are being landed at. their risk into the | | pane fi $ Gy 
i : Steamship é ‘ a About will be despatched for the above Ports, on or f3 ; Godowns of the Hongkong and Kowloon a further incentive to foreign merchants here 
7 ; "ANGLO SAXON" ... ‘oth about the roth of August. bee AN APPEAL. crite to see that their interests also are not neglected, 
3 : i eee wtoth July. is : pices iG Wharf and Godown Co., Limited, at Kowloor | the German Association has already, we 
. 7 0 pie at fe . . | te ‘ . . . ‘1 . 
JOHN y ARDIE".., meas o2gth August, : For Freight and further particulars, apply to THe SUPERIORESS of the ITALIAN ee Oe ee inet coe be ohiained helieve, decided to take the practical courte of 
For Freight and further information, apply to . ; SHEWAN, TOMES & Co., {¢] “CONVENT, Caine Roa, begs most | a5 soon as the Goods are Ianded. : urging the Ministers at Peking to put pressure, 
: : - trespectfully t? APPEAL to the Residents of a i 4k 5 : an China to establish a Customs system, under 
. tw af ; SHEWAR,. TOMES & G6., mon Agents. | }tongkong andthe Coast Ports, for their kind | ; Optional Goods will be paeied on pale her own control, in Manchuria as speedily aos 
Sa Hongkong, 19th June, 1996. : General Agents. 18] Hongkong, 2fth June, 1906... -.._., [682 xatranaye undaupport, and desires to state that DAY. given tothe contrary beforo | possible. At Dalny itself there has been,’ of / | 
. En she will he pleased to receive orders forall kinds "Goode ee clei d by the 2nd proximo will paar Ee Cutiom ote as yeh though“ | 
: : “45 . a ) ' . fief NEEDLE WORK. ei negotiations to that end were pending wi 
at © Dentistry. : pate NOT! ° E S23 yb Gentlemen's Shirts made {o order, and Cuffs be subject te rent. ee Russin before the war broke out, The mate 
acd : : is more urgent now that Japan andnot Ry#!a 


ee) 


4 Dr. M. H. OBAUN, 
SA THE: LATEST METHON. * 
‘ ‘| of the : 
i'  ' AMERICAN SYSTEM OF DENTISTI 
| 3%, Das Varux Roap CuntRat. 


J 


aye oe 2 From the University of Pennsylvania, U.S.A. : Consultation Frou Bot 4s Honghomg Telegraph Co, ytd. | who aro taught by the Sisters, ' 
ve ts ongkang, 32nd filly, body ? {70 Heaghong, goth faly, tgoq. : (62: | | Honghoug, qt Soptemben, 09h : $\tougkoog sed April, 1892. Hongkong, 25th Jong, 1906, . {670 Ne 


No Fire Insurance will be effected. ; 

All damaged packages must be-left in the 
Godowns, and a certificate of the damage 
obtained fiom the Godown Company within 
ten days after the steamers arrival, 

Noclalmswill be recognized if not presented | ; 
within 14 days of the ship's arrival, 2 

McGREGOR BROS. & GOW. , 


HE Public are hereby informed that ‘no |#"4Collars rent iad 

* change has’ been eavde in the Rates of |-’ Ladies and'thildren’s Under-clotbing, Cnu-. 
Subscription to the. Hongkong Telegraph & dren's Dresses, and all kinds of Embroidery, 
they are wamed against paying mom Gly, 


‘Materials can be applied, if requingd. 
Ten CENTS (socIs,) por Single Copy, 7. - 


"THE MANAGER,, | 


“Collars renswed on old ones.” 


is the interested party. Through Viadiy4tok, - 
we understand, thero is littl diffi in 
passing goods of any sort into north 


: TSIN TING. 
LATEST. METHODS. OF DENTISTRY. 
Srupio AT No.-14, D'AOUILAR Sraekt, 
REASQNABLE FEES.” 4 


The Superioress will also be mast grateful 
for any PAE, or.ald ENVELOPES to be made 
into Books forthe Children of the Poor Schonle, 


RY, 


rn : La a! ; 


