PEPSICO 


Annual Report 
2022 


pepsicopositive 


winning with GPrept 


2022 Financial Highlights 


Net Revenue Core Division Operating Profit* 


Bf Africa, Middle East 
and South Asia 7% 


Asia Pacific, Australia 
and New Zealand and 
China Region 6% 


Mix of Net Revenue 


Wf Frito-Lay 
North America 27% 5 

® Quaker Foods 
North America 4% 

4 | PepsiCo Beverages 12 
14 North America 30% 
30 Latin America 11% 19 
HM Europe 15% 


Mf Frito-Lay 
North America 44% 


l™® Quaker Foods 
North America 4% 
PepsiCo Beverages 
North America 19% 
Latin America 12% 
HM Europe 10% 


Bf Africa, Middle East 
and South Asia 6% 


Asia Pacific, Australia 
and New Zealand and 
China Region 5% 


42 i Food S8% 43 


Beverage 42% 


BH U.S. 57% 
Outside U.S. 43% 


PEPSICO, INC. & CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES 


(in millions, except per share data; all per share amounts assume dilution) 


Summary of Operations 
2022 2021 % Change? 


Net revenue $86,392 $79,474 9% 
Core operating profit + $12,325 $11,414 8% 
Reported earnings per share $6.42 $5.49 17% 
Core earnings per share® $6.79 $6.26 9% 
Free cash flow * $5,855 $7,157 -18% 
Capital spending $5,207 13% 


Common share repurchases $1,500 320% 
Dividends paid $6,172 6% 


1. Excludes the mark-to-market net impact of our commodity derivatives, restructuring and impairment charges, as well as acquisition and divestiture- 
related charges. In 2022, also excludes the gain associated with the sale of Tropicana, Naked and other select juice brands (Juice Transaction) as well as 
impairment and other charges. See page 129 "Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Information" for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable 
financial measure in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). On a reported basis, the division operating profit percentages 
were: Frito-Lay North America 45%, Quaker Foods North America 4%, PepsiCo Beverages North America 40%, Latin America 12%, Europe (10%), Africa, 
Middle East and South Asia 5% and Asia Pacific, Australia and New Zealand and China Region 4%. 2021 and 2022 reported operating profit was $11,162 
and $11,512, respectively, reflecting an increase of 3% in 2022. 

2. Percentage changes are based on unrounded amounts. 

3. Excludes the mark-to-market net impact of our commodity derivatives, restructuring and impairment charges, acquisition and divestiture-related 
charges, pension and retiree medical-related impact, as well as tax expense related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJ Act). In 2022, also excludes the 
gain associated with the Juice Transaction, impairment and other charges, and tax benefit related to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit. In 2021, also 
excludes charge related to cash tender offers. See page 129 “Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Information" for a reconciliation to the most directly 
comparable financial measure in accordance with GAAP. 

4. Includes the impact of net capital spending. See page 129 “Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Information" for a reconciliation to the most directly 
comparable financial measure in accordance with GAAP. 2021 and 2022 net cash provided by operating activities was $11,616 and $10,811, respectively, 
reflecting a decrease of 7% in 2022. 


pep: highlights 


We're advancing our course to drive positive action for the planet and people. 
A better food system means better outcomes for the Earth, and all of us. 


By becoming better ourselves, we can help build a stronger, more sustainable future 


for us all. pep+ guides our business — how we operate within planetary boundaries 
and inspire positive change for the planet and people. 


We're evolving how we source our ingredients and make and sell our products, and 
how we inspire people through our brands. 


POSITIVE AGRICULTURE 


We're working to source our crops and ingredients in ways that 
help restore the earth and strengthen farming communities. 


SUSTAINABLY SOURCED INGREDIENTS 


100% of our grower-sourced crops We maintained 100% Roundtable on 
(potatoes, whole corn, and oats) are Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) physically 
sustainably sourced in 30 countries, and certified palm oil? 

more than 90% of these crops are 
sustainably sourced globally as of 20221 


We maintained 100% Bonsucro certified 
sustainable cane sugar globally 


POSITIVE CHOICES 


We're inspiring people through our brands to make 
choices that create more smiles for them and the planet. 


EXPANDED PORTFOLIO OFFERINGS 60 


We are almost 80% of the way toward our 2025 targets in 
reducing added sugars, sodium, and saturated fat across our 
beverage and convenient foods portfolio* 


Please see our website (www.pepsico.com) under ‘Our Impact’ and the following notes for additional information regarding our pep+ goals and 
progress highlights in this Annual Report. Unless otherwise noted, information with respect to our acquisitions of Hangzhou Haomusi Food Co., Ltd. 
(Be & Cheery), BFY Brands, Inc., Pioneer Food Group Ltd. (Pioneer Foods), Rockstar Energy Beverages, and SodaStream International Ltd. (SodaStream) 
is included herein. Organizational changes (e.g., acquisitions, mergers, and divestitures) are evaluated to determine if they have a significant impact 
on our sustainability performance and, as data becomes available, all reported years for metrics impacted by an organizational change are recast to 
consistently reflect the impact of the organizational change. 

1. For grower-sourced crops, sustainable sourcing refers to meeting the independently verified environmental, social, and economic principles 
of PepsiCo's Sustainable Farming Program (SFP). For more information on PepsiCo’s SFP and the applicable standards, please see 
https://www.pepsico.com/esg-topics-a-z/agriculture. 


2. We maintained our sourcing through the RSPO Mass Balance physically certified supply chain model and procured de minimis Independent 
Smallholder Credits to achieve 100% RSPO certification in 2022. 


(CAN POSITIVE VALUE CHAIN 


We're helping build a circular and inclusive value chain. 


CLIMATE PACKAGING 


In 2022, we continued to work 
toward our goal of 100% renewable 
electricity in our direct operations, 
and approximately 65% of our 
global electricity needs were met by PEOPLE 
renewable sources® 


In December 2022, we set a new packaging 
goal for 20% of beverage servings to be 
delivered through reusable models by 2030 


As of 2022, we increased our Black and 


WATER Hispanic managerial populations in the 
U.S. to 9.0% and 10.1%, respectively, of our 
As of 2022, our operational water- workforce 


use efficiency improved by 22% 

in high water-risk areas vs. 2015 
baseline, approaching our goal of 25% 
improvement by 2025® 


Women hold 44% of our global manager 
positions and continue to be paid within 1% 
of men’ 


GREEN BOND 


In July 2022, we issued a new $1.25 billion 10-year ln October 2022, we published our third and final annual 

Green Bond, which will focus on investments to Green Bond Report on our 2019 Green Bond, describing 

advance key environmental sustainability initiatives our use of proceeds. As of December 31, 2021, we have 

under two pillars of our pep+ agenda: Positive fully allocated the $974 million in net proceeds from 

Agriculture and Positive Value Chain the issuance in 2019 of our first Green Bond to Eligible 
Green Projects 


3. Results reflect exclusion of SodaStream portfolio. Results include a combined approach of procuring Bonsucro credits and verifying our supply chain. 

4. Based on 2021 data in our Top 26 Beverage markets, which represent 79% of our global beverages volume, and our Top 23 Convenient Foods markets, which 
represent 86% of our global convenient foods volume. Results reflect exclusion of Be & Cheery portfolio. 

5. The goal is being accomplished using a diversified portfolio of solutions, including renewable energy certificates. Results reflect exclusion of Be & Cheery 
portfolio. Decrease from prior year is primarily due to the unavailability of renewable energy certificates in Russia. 

6. High water-risk locations defined by World Resources Institute's Aqueduct tool. Results reflect the exclusion of third-party facilities. Between 2006-2015, 
water-use efficiency improved by 26% in global operations at the date of target setting. 

7. Based on pay equity program implemented in 72 countries that collectively make up more than 99% of our salaried employee population, after controlling 
for legitimate drivers of pay such as job level, geographic location, and performance ratings; based on base compensation. 


To Our Shareholders, 


and how we want to create value for ourselves and 
others. To make this clear, we elevated it to be part of our 
overarching vision: to be the global leader in beverages 
and convenient foods by Winning with pep+. 


2022's fantastic results demonstrate that even in the 
most trying of times, the investments we have made 
and our commitment to pep+ are helping us win in the 
marketplace and create value for our shareholders, 

as well as our consumers, customers, associates, and 
communities. 


FASTER: To be an even Faster company, we are focusing 
our efforts on continually winning in the marketplace, 
finding ways to be even more consumer-centric, and 
accelerating investment for top-line growth, including by 
pivoting our portfolio. In 2022, we achieved these goals by: 


¢ Delivering more than 14% organic revenue growth 
and 10% growth in core constant currency operating 
profit—our highest growth levels in the last decade; 


* Growing core constant currency earnings per share 


To put it simply, 2022 was a stellar year for PepsiCo. epaeyit 

Despite another dynamic period that featured difficult + Finishing the year strong with 14.6% organic revenue 
and unpredictable circumstances, we delivered our best growth in Q4-our fifth straight quarter of double- 
financial performance in a decade, whilst staying true digit growth; 


to our values and continuing to build a strong, durable 
foundation for long-term growth—proof that we can 
deliver sustainable performance, even as we transform 
our business to meet the challenges of the future. 


* Continuing to invest in the business—more than 
$10 billion in advertising and marketing and capital 
investments; and 


¢ Announcing a 10% increase in our annualized 
dividend, effective with the dividend expected to be 
paid in June 2023. This will represent PepsiCo’s 51% 
consecutive annualized dividend per share increase. 


Our success in 2022 is a testament to the agenda we set 
out in 2019. An agenda focused on transforming a good 
company into a great one by becoming Faster, Stronger, 
and Better. At the end of 2021, we took our ambitions a 


step further, launching PepsiCo Positive (pep+),a strategic |, addition to continuing our strong financial 


end-to-end business transformation designed to drive performance, we've demonstrated an ability to lead with 
long-term sustainable business performance and value, growth and win in the market. In 2022, we: 


with sustainability and human capital at the center. 
¢ Ranked #1 in the Kantar PoweRanking for the seventh 
Since then, pep+ has become the North Star for how we year in a row; 


want to win in the marketplace, how we want to transform, 


1. 2022 reported net revenue increased 8.7%. 2022 reported operating profit increased 3%. 2022 reported EPS increased 17%. Q4 2022, Q3 2022, 
Q2 2022, Q1 2022, and Q4 2021 reported net revenue increased double digits, high single digits, mid-single digits, high single digits, and double 
digits, respectively. Organic revenue growth, core constant currency operating profit, and core constant currency EPS growth are non-GAAP financial 
measures. See page 129 “Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Information” for definitions and more information about these results, including a 
reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measure in accordance with GAAP. 


PepsiCo Annual Report 2022 | 1 


¢ Held or gained share across many of our key markets, 
including the U.S., Mexico, Brazil, the U.K., China, 
Saudi Arabia, and India; and 


« Continued to meet consumers’ needs and improve 
the consumer experience, making meaningful 
progress on all key portfolio transformation bets and 
with significant growth in more nutritious snacking 
and zero sugar platforms. 


STRONGER: To be an even Stronger company, we are 
continuing to transform our capabilities, cost, and culture, 
especially through innovation and by putting data at the 
center of our business. We also want our associates to 
continue to feel proud of our company and engaged with 
what we are doing. With these goals in mind, in 2022, we: 


« Made strong progress toward modernizing and 
fortifying our Enterprise Resource Planning 
backbone across certain markets and divisions to 
harmonize global data and business processes with 
seamless access to critical information; 


Continued to build out Global Business Services 
(GBS) to help fuel PepsiCo's growth, accelerating 
the impact GBS can have on productivity, 
standardization, and process improvement; 


Initiated key digital programs in many markets to 
advance the automation of our business planning 
processes across our value chain in how we make, 
move, and sell our products; 


Celebrated the 40* anniversary of our Supplier 
Diversity Program, where we currently spend 
more than $1 billion annually with certified, diverse 
suppliers; 


Continued to invest in talent development and 
learning to become the best possible workplace— 

in two years, over 30,000 people managers and 
associates have registered for live-interactive 
leadership development workshops, and many have 
leveraged performance support content; and 


Doubled down on our company culture by 
relaunching The PepsiCo Way, the seven behaviors 
that define who we are and how we work, whilst 
updating their definitions to better reflect our pep+ 
and digital transformations. 


2 | PepsiCo Annual Report 2022 


BETTER: To be an even Better company, we are striving 

to create growth and value by operating within planetary 
boundaries and inspiring positive change for the planet 
and people. The power that we have as individuals and as 
a collective group to make an impact in our communities 
is massive. We know that by doing what's right for society 
and the environment, we can position ourselves as a 
consistent top market performer, generating stronger 
and more loyal connections with our consumers and 
customers, engaging more meaningfully with our 
associates, and building deeper roots in our communities 
to help them prosper over the long term. 


This strategic, end-to-end focus has enabled us to make 
visible progress across the three pillars of pep+: Positive 
Agriculture, Positive Value Chain, and Positive Choices: 


Positive Agriculture: We are working to spread 
regenerative practices to help restore the earth across 

7 million acres—land approximately equal to the company's 
entire agricultural footprint; sustainably source key crops 
and ingredients; and help improve the livelihoods of more 
than 250,000 people in our agricultural supply chain and 
communities, all by 2030. In 2022, we moved closer to 
these goals by: 


¢ Elevating external strategic partnerships with 
Archer Daniels Midland Company (ADM) to scale 
regenerative agriculture practices across our shared 
supply chains, up to 2 million acres in the U.S., and 
with N-Drip to scale micro irrigation technology to 
provide water-saving, crop-enhancing benefits to 
farmers around the world; 


Granting funding to 14 projects in 11 countries 
through our Positive Agriculture Outcomes 
Fund, helping to tackle some of the most difficult 
challenges facing agriculture today; and 


Continuing to advance the five-year “Investing 

in Women to Strengthen Supply Chains" Global 
Development Alliance with the U.S. Agency for 
International Development. This includes training 
women on overall farm management as a business, 
so they can make informed decisions about 
investment; improving agronomic skills critical 

for the sustainable or regenerative agriculture 
transition; building women up to be lead farmers; 
and improving working conditions. The program is 
currently operating in Colombia, Pakistan, India, and 
Vietnam and will soon launch in Peru. 


Positive Value Chain: We are helping to build a circular and 
inclusive value chain through actions designed to achieve 
Net-Zero emissions by 2040, become Net Water Positive 
by 2030, and help build a world where packaging never 
becomes waste. As part of this, we are adopting new models 
and decoupling environmental impact from business 
growth. In 2022, we took important steps such as: 


¢ Establishing a new global packaging goal for 20% of 
beverage servings to be delivered through reusable 
models by 2030. We intend to work toward this goal 
by expanding our SodaStream business, building out 
our refillable offerings, growing our fountain drinks 
business with reusable cups, and accelerating growth 
in powders and tablets; 


Announcing plans for PepsiCo Europe that aim to 
eliminate virgin fossil-based plastic in all its crisp 
and chip bags by 2030, which will apply to brands 
including Walkers, Doritos, and Lay's. We expect to 
deliver by using 100% recycled or renewable plastic; 


22 markets have at least one product packaged with 
100% recycled PET (rPET); 


Transforming our Frito-Lay facility in Modesto, 
California, into a role model for end-to-end 
sustainability. The facility uses 100% sustainably 
sourced potatoes under PepsiCo's Sustainable 
Farming Program and has achieved a 91% reduction 
in greenhouse gas emissions from direct fleet 
operations by switching to zero-emission and near 
zero-emission vehicles—including the world's first 
fleet of electric semi trucks from Tesla. We also 
built fueling and charging infrastructure for the new 
fleet, with on-site renewable energy generation and 
storage; and 


Advancing our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DESI) 
agenda around our people, business partnerships, 
and the communities we serve. We have reached 
44% gender parity in management globally, whilst 
increasing U.S. Black and Hispanic representation at 
the manager level to 9.0% and 10.1%, respectively. 
We are also expanding our efforts to support 
historically marginalized communities around 

the world by increasing diverse representation, 
supporting our business partners, and helping to 
create economic opportunity in communities. 


Positive Choices: We're inspiring people through our 
brands to make choices that help create better outcomes 
for them and the planet. That means continuing to expand 
portfolio offerings with less added sugar, sodium, and 
saturated fat, whilst driving new packaging solutions 
across beverages and convenient foods. In 2022, we 
made progress on a number of key initiatives, including: 


¢ Advancing more nutritious snacking platforms 
with significant growth in North America driven by 
brands like PopCorners, SunChips, and Bare, whilst 
launching the national expansion of PopCorners in 
the U.K.; 


Using more diverse ingredients such as legumes, 
whole grains, plant-based proteins, fruits and 
vegetables, and nuts and seeds. This includes 
launching SunChips Black Beans, a new variety made 
with whole grains and real black beans, and new 
Quaker Oats flavor offerings with 100% whole 

grain oats; 


Advancing against our added sugars reduction 

goal, with Pepsi Zero Sugar now available in 110 
international markets and growth in other zero sugar 
products; and 


Leveraging the power of our brands to meet 
consumer demand for more sustainable packaging. 
We currently offer reuse models in more than 

80 markets, including: SodaStream, SodaStream 
Professional, Gatorade Gx, fountain beverages, 
returnable glass and plastic bottles, and concentrates 
and powders. 


As we advance our pep+ journey, we know that being a 
Better company also means continuing to invest in our 
communities. That's why we took several critical actions 
in 2022: 


¢ Opening our hearts and our homes to provide 
necessities and shelter to our Ukrainian colleagues 
when their lives were turned upside down by the 
deadly conflict. We also contributed nearly $15 million 
to relief efforts through donations from the business, 
our associates, and the PepsiCo Foundation; 


Launching One Smile at a Time, our global employee 
volunteering platform, across nearly all of our top 20 

markets, empowering our associates to impact their 
communities at scale. In 2022, we delivered more than 
290,000 hours of service through the platform: and 


PepsiCo Annual Report 2022 | 3 


« Continuing to make a difference for people 
around the world through the PepsiCo Foundation 
by helping increase equitable access to safe water; 
funding nearly 1,800 scholarships for Black and 
Hispanic students through the Uplift Community 
College Scholarship Program: and helping increase 
food security, delivering more than 20 million meals 
in 2022 alone. 


We delivered our best financial 
performance in a decade, whilst 


staying true to our values and 
continuing to build a strong, durable 
foundation for long-term growth. 


Each example of our success is one piece of a much 
bigger transformation. A transformation that began in 
2019, when we launched our effort to become Faster, 
Stronger, and Better and turn a good company into a great 
one. That continued to unfold in 2020 and 2021, when we 
proved we have the right strategy and the right people. 
And that accelerated in 2022, a year when we showed the 
world something new: that it is possible for a large, global 
company to perform and transform at the same time. 


| have always been proud of our results, but never more 
so than today. Thanks to pep+, our strong brands, our 
market positions, our global strategy, and our incredible 
team of associates, we have been able to deliver short- 
term results, whilst laying the foundation for long-term, 
sustainable growth. 


| have been especially proud of the ownership 
demonstrated by our leaders and our associates. 
Despite extreme volatility, they made courageous 


4. | PepsiCo Annual Report 2022 


decisions, adapted quickly in every local market, and 
showed compassion and generosity to our colleagues in 
Ukraine—a strong testament to our PepsiCo values and 
what makes us unique. 


Now, to perform and transform even Faster, even Stronger, 
and even Better than we did in 2022, we have to take our 
efforts to the next level. As 2023 will likely carry its own 
unique set of challenges and opportunities, we'll focus 

on five key areas to help us build on the momentum we 
gained in 2022: 


» Keeping our categories very relevant to consumers 
and accelerating our share gains in our key markets; 


¢ Setting high ambitions in cost transformation 
and elevating our focus on cost control in every 
Business Unit: 


* Continuing to reinvest heavily in our systems and 
digital transformation: 


¢ Raising the bar in our pep+ transformation, with focus 
on our portfolio, our DESI agenda, our communities, 
and the environment; and 


¢ Building high flexibility, agility, and resilience in our 
planning processes to allow us to pivot quickly as the 
world changes around us. 


By staying focused on these priorities, | am confident we 
will position ourselves to deliver another year of strong 
results, whilst creating smiles that make a big difference 
for all of our stakeholders. 


Thank you for sharing that confidence by entrusting 

us with your investment. With your support, we will 
continue to build an even Faster, even Stronger, even 
Better company—a company that wins in the marketplace 
and positively impacts society. Not just today, not just 
tomorrow, but for many years to come. 


pele 


Ramon L. Laguarta 
PepsiCo Chairman of the 
Board of Directors and 
Chief Executive Officer 


PepsiCo Board of Directors 


Segun Agbaje 
Group Chief Executive 
Officer, Guaranty Trust 
Holding Company Plc 
(GTCO Plc) 

Elected 2020 


Shona L. Brown 
Independent Advisor; Former 
Senior Advisor, Google Inc. 
Elected 2009 


Cesar Conde 
Chairman, 

NBCUniversal News Group 
Elected 2016 


PepsiCo Leadership 


lan Cook 

Former Chairman, President 
and Chief Executive Officer, 
Colgate-Palmolive Company 
Elected 2008 


Edith W. Cooper 
Former Executive Vice 
President and Global 

Head, Human Capital 
Management, The Goldman 
Sachs Group, Inc. 

Elected 2021 


Dina Dublon 
Former Executive Vice 
President and Chief 
Financial Officer, 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
Elected 2005S 


Michelle Gass 


President, Levi Strauss & Co. 
Elected 2019 


Ramon L. Laguarta 
Chairman of the Board 

of Directors and Chief 
Executive Officer, PepsiCo 
Elected 2018 


Sir Dave J. Lewis 
Former Group Chief 
Executive Officer, Tesco PLC; 
Chair, Haleon ple; 

Chairman of Xlinks 

Elected 2020 


David C. Page, MD 
Professor, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology; 
Former Director and 
President, Whitehead 
Institute for Biomedical 
Research 

Elected 2014 


Robert C. Pohlad 


President of various 
family-owned entities; 
Former Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer, 
PepsiAmericas, Inc. 
Elected 2015 


Daniel Vasella, MD 
Former Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer, 

Novartis AG 

Elected 2002 


Darren Walker 
President, Ford Foundation 
Elected 2016 


Alberto Weisser 
Former Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer, 

Bunge Limited 

Elected 2011 


This list is as of March 21, 2023. 


See pages 25-27 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for a list 


of PepsiCo Executive Officers subject to Section 16 of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 


Ramon L. Laguarta 
Chairman of the Board 

of Directors and Chief 
Executive Officer 


Jim Andrew 
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Sustainability 
Officer 


Roberto Azevédo 
Executive Vice President, 
Chief Corporate Affairs 
Officer and Chairman of 
the Board of Directors, 
PepsiCo Foundation 


David Flavell 
Executive Vice President, 
General Counsel and 
Corporate Secretary 


Hugh F. Johnston 
Vice Chairman, Executive 
Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer 


Athina Kanioura 
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Strategy and 
Transformation Officer 


Ram Krishnan 
Chief Executive Officer, 
International Beverages 
and Chief Commercial 
Officer 


René Lammers 
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Science Officer 


Silviu Popovici 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Europe 


Gregg Roden 
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Operations 
Officer 


Paula Santilli 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Latin America 


Ronald 


Schellekens 
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Human 
Resources Officer 


Wern-Yuen Tan 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Asia Pacific, Australia, New 
Zealand and China 


Kirk Tanner 

Chief Executive Officer, 
PepsiCo Beverages North 
America 


Jane Wakely 
Executive Vice President, 
Chief Consumer and 
Marketing Officer and 
Chief Growth Officer, 
International Foods 


Eugene Willemsen 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Africa, Middle East, 

South Asia 


Steven Williams 
Chief Executive Officer, 
PepsiCo Foods North 
America 


This list is as of March 21, 2023. 


2022 Citizenship 
Giving 


2022 Diversity 
Statistics 


Board of Directors 


Women % 
{Ce} [e} eF-1)) 


29% 
18% 
40% 
44% 
27% 


People of Color! % 
(U.S. Only) 


43%? 
38% 
31% 
33% 
48% 


(in millions) 
PepsiCo Foundation 


Corporate Contributions Senior Executives? 


Division Contributions Executives 


Division Estimated In-kind All Managers 


Total All Employees 

The data in this chart is as of December 31, 2022. 

1. Based on completed self-identification forms. Defined as ethnically/racially 
diverse individuals. 

2. Global. 

3. Composed of PepsiCo Executive Officers subject to Section 16 of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 


PepsiCo Annual Report 2022 | 5 


Page intentionally left blank 


PepsiCo, Inc. 


Annual Report 2022 
Form10-K 


For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 


Page intentionally left blank 


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 


FORM 10-K 


(Mark One) 


x] 


ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 


For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 


OR 
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
1934 
For the transition period from to 


Commission file number 1-1183 


Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes O No 


3 PEPSICO 
eZ) (oy Tropicana a. G 


pepe QUAKER 


PepsiCo, Inc. 


(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) 
North Carolina 13-1584302 


(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 


700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 
(Address of principal executive offices and Zip Code) 


(914) 253-2000 
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code 


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: 


Title of each class Trading Symbols Name of each exchange on which registered 
Common Stock, par value 1-2/3 cents per share PEP The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 
0.250% Senior Notes Due 2024 PEP24 The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 
2.625% Senior Notes Due 2026 PEP26 The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 
0.750% Senior Notes Due 2027 PEP27 The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 
0.875% Senior Notes Due 2028 PEP28 The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 
0.500% Senior Notes Due 2028 PEP28a The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 
3.200% Senior Notes Due 2029 PEP29 The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 
1.125% Senior Notes Due 2031 PEP31 The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 
0.400% Senior Notes Due 2032 PEP32 The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 
0.750% Senior Notes Due 2033 PEP33 The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 
3.550% Senior Notes Due 2034 PEP34 The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 
0.875% Senior Notes Due 2039 PEP39 The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 
1.050% Senior Notes Due 2050 PEP50 The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: None 


Ix 


Noo 


Ix 


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), 
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes Kl NoO 


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted 
pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to submit such files). Yes kK] No O 


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller 
reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller 
reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 


99 66 


Large accelerated filer x Accelerated filer 
Non-accelerated filer Smaller reporting company 
Emerging growth company 


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for 
complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. O 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness 
of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered 
public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. Kk 


If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the 
registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. O 


Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based 
compensation received by any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). O 


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes O No Kl 


The aggregate market value of PepsiCo, Inc. Common Stock held by nonaffiliates of PepsiCo, Inc. (assuming for these purposes, but 
without conceding, that all executive officers and directors of PepsiCo, Inc. are affiliates of PepsiCo, Inc.) as of June 10, 2022, the last 
day of business of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, was $224.2 billion (based on the closing sale price of PepsiCo, 
Inc.’s Common Stock on that date as reported on the Nasdaq Global Select Market). 

The number of shares of PepsiCo, Inc. Common Stock outstanding as of February 2, 2023 was 1,377,251,316. 

Documents Incorporated by Reference 


Portions of the Proxy Statement relating to PepsiCo, Inc.’s 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into 
Part III of this Form 10-K. 


PepsiCo, Inc. 


Form 10-K Annual Report 
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2022 


Table of Contents 


PARTI 
Item 1. Business 2 
Item 1A. Risk Factors I 
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 
Item 2. Properties 24 
Item 3. — Legal Proceedings 24 
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 
PART II 
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer 
Purchases of Equity Securities 28 
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations 29 
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 116 
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 116 
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial 
Disclosure 116 
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 116 
Item 9B. Other Information 117 
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 117 
PART III 
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 117 
Item 11. Executive Compensation 117 
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related 
Stockholder Matters 118 
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 118 
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 118 
PART IV 
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 119 


Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 119 


Forward-Looking Statements 


This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements reflecting our views about our future performance 
that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995 (Reform Act). Statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the 
meaning of the Reform Act are generally identified through the inclusion of words such as “aim,” 
“anticipate,” “believe,” “drive,” “estimate,” “expect,” “expressed confidence,” “forecast,” “future,” 
“goal,” “guidance,” “intend,” “may,” “objective,” “outlook,” “plan,” “position,” “potential,” 
“project,”’ “seek,” “should,” “strategy,” “target,” “will” or similar statements or variations of such 
words and other similar expressions. All statements addressing our future operating performance, and 
statements addressing events and developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future, are 
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act. These forward-looking statements are 
based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. 
They inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from 
those predicted in any such forward-looking statement. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not 
limited to, those described in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Our Business — Our Business Risks.” 
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak 
only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, 
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The discussion of risks in this report is 
by no means all-inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider 
when evaluating our future performance. 


’ 


PARTI 
Item 1. Business. 


99 66 


When used in this report, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” “PepsiCo” and the “Company” mean PepsiCo, Inc. 
and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively. Certain terms used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are 
defined in the Glossary included in Item 7. of this report. 


Company Overview 


We were incorporated in Delaware in 1919 and reincorporated in North Carolina in 1986. We are a 
leading global beverage and convenient food company with a complementary portfolio of brands, 
including Lay’s, Doritos, Cheetos, Gatorade, Pepsi-Cola, Mountain Dew, Quaker and SodaStream. 
Through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third parties, we make, 
market, distribute and sell a wide variety of beverages and convenient foods, serving customers and 
consumers in more than 200 countries and territories. 


Our Operations 
We are organized into seven reportable segments (also referred to as divisions), as follows: 


1) Frito-Lay North America (FLNA), which includes our branded convenient food businesses in the 
United States and Canada; 


2) Quaker Foods North America (QFNA), which includes our branded convenient food businesses, 
such as cereal, rice, pasta and other branded food, in the United States and Canada; 


3) PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA), which includes our beverage businesses in the United 
States and Canada; 


4) Latin America (LatAm), which includes all of our beverage and convenient food businesses in 
Latin America; 


5) Europe, which includes all of our beverage and convenient food businesses in Europe; 


6) Africa, Middle East and South Asia (AMESA), which includes all of our beverage and convenient 
food businesses in Africa, the Middle East and South Asia; and 


7) Asia Pacific, Australia and New Zealand and China Region (APAC), which includes all of our 
beverage and convenient food businesses in Asia Pacific, Australia and New Zealand, and China 
region. 


Frito-Lay North America 


Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, FLNA makes, markets, distributes and sells 
branded convenient foods. These foods include branded dips, Cheetos cheese-flavored snacks, Doritos 
tortilla chips, Fritos corn chips, Lay’s potato chips, Ruffles potato chips and Tostitos tortilla chips. 
FLNA’s branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. In addition, FLNA’s joint 
venture with Strauss Group makes, markets, distributes and sells Sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. 


Quaker Foods North America 


Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, QFNA makes, markets, distributes and sells 
branded convenient foods, which include cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. QFNA’s 
products include Cap’n Crunch cereal, Life cereal, Pearl Milling Company syrups and mixes, Quaker 
Chewy granola bars, Quaker grits, Quaker oatmeal, Quaker rice cakes, Quaker Simply Granola and Rice- 
A-Roni side dishes. QFNA’s branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. 


PepsiCo Beverages North America 


Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, PBNA makes, markets and sells beverage 
concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including Aquafina, Diet 
Mountain Dew, Diet Pepsi, Gatorade, Gatorade Zero, Mountain Dew, Pepsi and Propel. PBNA operates 
its own bottling plants and distribution facilities and sells branded finished goods directly to independent 
distributors and retailers. PBNA also sells concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized and 
independent bottlers, who in turn sell our branded finished goods to independent distributors and retailers 
in certain markets. PBNA also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, 
distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea and coffee products through joint ventures with Unilever (under the 
Lipton brand name) and Starbucks, respectively. Further, PBNA manufactures and distributes certain 
brands licensed from Keurig Dr Pepper Inc., including Crush, Dr Pepper and Schweppes, and certain juice 
brands licensed from Dole Food Company, Inc. and Ocean Spray Cranberries, Inc. In 2022, PBNA began 
to distribute Hard MTN Dew, an alcoholic beverage manufactured and owned by the Boston Beer 
Company. In the first quarter of 2022, we sold our Tropicana, Naked and other select juice brands to PAI 
Partners, while retaining a 39% noncontrolling interest in a newly formed joint venture, Tropicana Brands 
Group (TBG), operating across North America and Europe (Juice Transaction). In the United States, 
PepsiCo acts as the exclusive distributor for TBG’s portfolio of brands for small-format and foodservice 
customers with chilled direct-store-delivery (DSD). See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements 
for further information. 


Latin America 


Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, LatAm makes, markets, distributes and sells a 
number of convenient food brands including Cheetos, Doritos, Emperador, Lay’s, Marias Gamesa, 
Ruffles, Sabritas, Saladitas and Tostitos, as well as many Quaker-branded convenient foods. LatAm also, 
either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage 
concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7UP, Diet 7UP, 
Gatorade, H2oh!, Manzanita Sol, Mirinda, Pepsi, Pepsi Black, San Carlos and Toddy. These branded 
products are sold to authorized and independent bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. LatAm 


also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready- 
to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). 


Europe 


Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, Europe makes, markets, distributes and sells a 
number of convenient food brands including Cheetos, Doritos, Lay’s, Ruffles and Walkers, as well as 
many Quaker-branded convenient foods, through consolidated businesses, as well as through 
noncontrolled affiliates. Europe also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, 
markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various 
beverage brands including 7UP, Diet Pepsi, Lubimy Sad, Mirinda, Pepsi and Pepsi Max. These branded 
products are sold to authorized and independent bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. In certain 
markets, however, Europe operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. Europe also, as part 
of its beverage business, manufactures and distributes SodaStream sparkling water makers and related 
products. Further, Europe makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of dairy products including 
Agusha, Chudo and Domik v Derevne. Europe also, either independently or in conjunction with third 
parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint 
venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). In the first quarter of 2022, we sold our Tropicana, 
Naked and other select juice brands to PAI Partners, while retaining a 39% noncontrolling interest in 
TBG, operating across North America and Europe. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements 
for further information. 


Africa, Middle East and South Asia 


Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, AMESA makes, markets, distributes and sells a 
number of convenient food brands including Chipsy, Doritos, Kurkure, Lay’s, Sasko, Spekko and White 
Star, as well as many Quaker-branded convenient foods, through consolidated businesses, as well as 
through noncontrolled affiliates. AMESA also makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, 
fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7UP, Aquafina, Mirinda, 
Mountain Dew and Pepsi. These branded products are sold to authorized and independent bottlers, 
independent distributors and retailers. In certain markets, however, AMESA operates its own bottling 
plants and distribution facilities. AMESA also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, 
makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture 
with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). 


Asia Pacific, Australia and New Zealand and China Region 


Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, APAC makes, markets, distributes and sells a 
number of convenient food brands including BaiCaoWei, Cheetos, Doritos, Lay’s and Smith’s, as well as 
many Quaker-branded convenient foods, through consolidated businesses, as well as through 
noncontrolled affiliates. APAC also makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain 
syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including 7UP, Aquafina, Mirinda, Mountain 
Dew, Pepsi and Sting. These branded products are sold to authorized and independent bottlers, 
independent distributors and retailers. APAC also, either independently or in conjunction with third 
parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint 
venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). 


Our Distribution Network 


Our products are primarily brought to market through DSD, customer warehouse and distributor networks 
and are also sold directly to consumers through e-commerce platforms and retailers. The distribution 
system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. 


Direct-Store-Delivery 


We, our independent bottlers and our distributors operate DSD systems that deliver beverages and 
convenient foods directly to retail stores where the products are merchandised by our employees or our 
independent bottlers. DSD enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. DSD is 
especially well-suited to products that are restocked often and respond to in-store promotion and 
merchandising. 


Customer Warehouse 


Some of our products are delivered from our manufacturing plants and distribution centers, both company 
and third-party operated, to customer warehouses. These less costly systems generally work best for 
products that are less fragile and perishable, and have lower turnover. 


Distributor Networks 


We distribute many of our products through third-party distributors. Third-party distributors are 
particularly effective when greater distribution reach can be achieved by including a wide range of 
products on the delivery vehicles. For example, our foodservice and vending business distributes 
beverages and convenient foods to restaurants, businesses, schools and stadiums through third-party 
foodservice and vending distributors and operators. 


E-commerce 


Our products are also available and sold directly to consumers on a growing number of company-owned 
and third-party e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications. 


Ingredients and Other Supplies 


The principal ingredients we use in our beverage and convenient food products are aspartame, corn, corn 
sweeteners, flavorings, flour, juice concentrates, oats, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, 
sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. We also use water in the manufacturing of our products. 
Our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and 
polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for convenient foods, 
aluminum, glass, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. In addition, we continue to integrate 
recyclability into our product development process and support the increased use of recycled content, 
including recycled PET, in our packaging. Fuel, electricity and natural gas are also important commodities 
for our businesses due to their use in our and our business partners’ facilities and the vehicles delivering 
our products. We employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not 
experienced any significant continuous shortages that would prevent us from meeting our requirements. 
Many of these ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. The prices 
we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price 
contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and 
futures. In addition, risk to our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from 
multiple geographies and suppliers. When prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to 
our customers. In addition, we continue to make investments to improve the sustainability and resources 
of our agricultural supply chain, including the development of our initiative to advance sustainable 
farming practices by our suppliers and expanding it further globally. During 2022, we continued to 
experience increased commodity, packaging and other input costs and, in some instances, supply 
constraints related to the deadly conflict in Ukraine, the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, the 
inflationary cost environment, adverse weather conditions, supply chain disruptions and labor shortages, 
which has continued into fiscal 2023. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for further 
information on how we manage our exposure to commodity prices. 


We also maintain voluntary supply chain finance agreements with several participating global financial 
institutions, pursuant to which our suppliers, at their sole discretion, may elect to sell their accounts 
receivable with PepsiCo to such global financial institutions. These agreements did not have a material 


impact on our business or financial results. See “Our Financial Results — Our Liquidity and Capital 
Resources” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations” for further information. 


Our Brands and Intellectual Property Rights 


We own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including 
Agusha, Amp Energy, Aquafina, Aquafina Flavorsplash, Arto Lifewtr, Baja Blast, BaiCaoWei, Bare, 
Bokomo, bubly, Cap’n Crunch, Ceres, Cheetos, Chester’s, Chipsy, Chokis, Chudo, Cracker Jack, 
Crunchy, Diet Mountain Dew, Diet Mug, Diet Pepsi, Diet 7UP (outside the United States), Domik v 
Derevne, Doritos, Driftwell, Duyvis, Elma Chips, Emperador, Evolve, Frito-Lay, Fritos, Fruktovy Sad, 
G2, Gamesa, Gatorade, Gatorade Fit, Gatorade Zero, Gatorlyte, Grandma’s, H2oh!, Hard MTN Dew, 
Health Warrior, Imunele, J7, Kas, Kurkure, Lay’s, Life, Lifewtr, Liquifruit, Lubimy, Manzanita Sol, 
Marias Gamesa, Matutano, Mirinda, Miss Vickie’s, Moirs, Mother’s, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew 
Code Red, Mountain Dew Game Fuel, Mountain Dew Kickstart, Mountain Dew Zero Sugar, MTN Dew 
Energy, Mug, Munchies, Muscle Milk, Near East, Off the Eaten Path, Paso de los Toros, Pasta Roni, Pearl 
Milling Company, Pepsi, Pepsi Black, Pepsi Max, Pepsi Zero Sugar, PopCorners, Pronutro, Propel, 
Quaker, Quaker Chewy, Quaker Simply Granola, Rice-A-Roni, Rockstar Energy, Rold Gold, Ruffles, 
Sabritas, Safari, Sakata, Saladitas Gamesa, San Carlos, Sandora, Santitas, Sasko, 7UP (outside the United 
States), 7UP Free (outside the United States), Sierra Mist, Sierra Mist Zero Sugar, Simba, Smartfood, 
Smith’s, Snack a Jacks, SoBe, SodaStream, Sonric’s, Spekko, Stacy’s, Starry, Sting, Stubborn Soda, 
SunChips, Toddy, Toddynho, Tostitos, V Water, Vesely Molochnik, Walkers, Weetbix, White Star, Ya 
and Yachak. We also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products 
in certain markets, including Ocean Spray. We also distribute Celsius energy drinks and various Keurig Dr 
Pepper Inc. brands, including Dr Pepper in certain markets, Crush and Schweppes. Joint ventures in which 
we have an ownership interest either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as Lipton, 
Sabra and Starbucks. In addition, in the first quarter of 2022, we sold our Tropicana, Naked and other 
select juice brands to PAI Partners, while retaining a 39% noncontrolling interest in TBG, operating across 
North America and Europe. In the United States, PepsiCo acts as the exclusive distributor for TBG’s 
portfolio of brands for small-format and foodservice customers with chilled DSD. See Note 13 to our 
consolidated financial statements for further information. In 2022, we began to distribute Hard MTN Dew, 
an alcoholic beverage manufactured and owned by the Boston Beer Company. We have licensed the use 
of the Hard MTN Dew trademark to the Boston Beer Company, which has appointed us as their distributor 
for this product. Trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, 
and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. We have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the 
use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as convenient food joint ventures and beverage bottling 
appointments. In addition, we license the use of our trademarks on merchandise that is sold at retail, which 
enhances brand awareness. 


We either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to certain of our products, their 
packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in 
our businesses. Some of these patents are licensed to others. 


Seasonality 


Our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. Our beverage and convenient food sales are generally 
highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns and generally lowest in the first 
quarter. However, taken as a whole, seasonality has not had a material impact on our consolidated 
financial results. 


Our Customers 


Our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug 
stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, hard 
discounters, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. We normally grant 
our independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our 
trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements provide us with the right to charge our 
independent bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and Aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing 
process required for product quality. We also grant distribution rights to our independent bottlers for 
certain beverage products bearing our trademarks for specified geographic areas. 


We rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the distribution and promotion of 
our products to the consumer. For our independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include 
volume-based rebates, product placement fees, promotions and displays. For our independent bottlers, 
these incentives are referred to as bottler funding and are negotiated annually with each bottler to support 
a variety of trade and consumer programs, such as consumer incentives, advertising support, new product 
support, and vending and cooler equipment placement. Consumer incentives include pricing discounts and 
promotions, and other promotional offers. Advertising support is directed at advertising programs and 
supporting independent bottler media. New product support includes targeted consumer and retailer 
incentives and direct marketplace support, such as point-of-purchase materials, product placement fees, 
media and advertising. Vending and cooler equipment placement programs support the acquisition and 
placement of vending machines and cooler equipment. The nature and type of programs vary annually. 


Changes to the retail landscape, including increased consolidation of retail ownership, the continued 
growth of sales through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, including through 
subscription services and other direct-to-consumer businesses, the integration of physical and digital 
operations among retailers, as well as the international expansion of hard discounters, and the current 
economic environment continue to increase the importance of major customers. In 2022, sales to Walmart 
Inc. (Walmart) and its affiliates, including Sam’s Club (Sam’s), represented approximately 14% of our 
consolidated net revenue, with sales reported across all of our divisions, including concentrate sales to our 
independent bottlers, which were used in finished goods sold by them to Walmart. The loss of this 
customer would have a material adverse effect on our FLNA, QFNA and PBNA divisions. 


Our Competition 


Our beverage and convenient food products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete 
against products of international beverage and convenient food companies that, like us, operate in multiple 
geographies, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and economy brands and other 
competitors, including smaller companies developing and selling micro brands directly to consumers 
through e-commerce platforms or through retailers focused on locally-sourced products. In many countries 
in which our products are sold, including the United States, The Coca-Cola Company is our primary 
beverage competitor. Other beverage and convenient food competitors include, but are not limited to, 
Campbell Soup Company, Conagra Brands, Inc., Hormel Foods Corporation, Kellogg Company, Keurig 
Dr Pepper Inc., The Kraft Heinz Company, Link Snacks, Inc., Mondeléz International, Inc., Monster 
Beverage Corporation, Nestlé S.A., Red Bull GmbH and Utz Brands, Inc. 


Many of our convenient food products hold significant leadership positions in the convenient food 
industry in the United States and worldwide. In 2022, we and The Coca-Cola Company represented 
approximately 20% and 21%, respectively, of the U.S. liquid refreshment beverage category by estimated 
retail sales in measured channels, according to Information Resources, Inc. However, The Coca-Cola 
Company has significant carbonated soft drink (CSD) share advantage in many markets outside the United 
States. 


Our beverage and convenient food products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition and 
loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and 
promotional activity (including digital), packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and 
effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and 
wellness and sustainability and the continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of 
distributing and purchasing products. Success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective 
promotion of existing products, effective introduction of new products and reformulations of existing 
products, increased efficiency in production techniques, effective incorporation of technology and digital 
tools across all areas of our business, the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, 
product packaging and pricing, new vending and dispensing equipment and brand and trademark 
development and protection. We believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, 
coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allows us to compete 
effectively. 


Research and Development 


We engage in a variety of research and development activities and invest in innovation globally with the 
goal of meeting the needs of our customers and consumers and accelerating growth. These activities 
principally involve: innovations focused on creating consumer preferred products to grow and transform 
our portfolio through development of new technologies, ingredients, flavors and substrates; development 
and improvement of our manufacturing processes, including reductions in cost and environmental 
footprint; implementing product improvements to our global portfolio that reduce added sugars, sodium or 
saturated fat; offering more products with functional ingredients and positive nutrition including whole 
grains, fruit, vegetables, dairy, protein, fiber, micronutrients and hydration; development of packaging 
technology and new package designs, including reducing the amount of plastic in our packaging and 
developing recyclable, compostable, biodegradable or otherwise sustainable packaging; development of 
marketing, merchandising and dispensing equipment; further expanding our beyond the bottle portfolio 
including innovation for our SodaStream business; investments in technology and digitalization, including 
artificial intelligence and data analytics to enhance our consumer insights and research; continuing to 
strengthen our omnichannel capabilities, particularly in e-commerce; and efforts focused on reducing our 
impact on the environment, including reducing water use in our operations and our agricultural practices 
and reducing our environmental impact in our operations throughout our value chain. 


Our research centers are located around the world, including in Brazil, China, India, Ireland, Mexico, 
Russia, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States, and leverage consumer insights, food 
science and engineering to meet our strategy to continually innovate our portfolio of beverages and 
convenient foods. 


Regulatory Matters 


The conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, 
marketing, labeling, content, quality, safety, transportation, packaging, disposal, recycling and use of our 
products, as well as our employment and occupational health and safety practices and protection of 
personal information, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local 
governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to laws and regulations administered by 
government entities and agencies in the more than 200 other countries and territories in which our 
products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. It is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations 
around the world that apply to our businesses. 


The U.S. laws and regulations that we are subject to include, but are not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug 
and Cosmetic Act and various state laws governing food safety; the Food Safety Modernization Act; the 
Occupational Safety and Health Act and various state laws and regulations governing workplace health 


and safety; various federal, state and local environmental protection laws, as discussed below; the Federal 
Motor Carrier Safety Act; the Federal Trade Commission Act; the Lanham Act; various federal and state 
laws and regulations governing competition and trade practices, including the Robinson-Patman Act and 
the Clayton Act; various federal and state laws and regulations governing our employment practices, 
including those related to equal employment opportunity, such as the Equal Employment Opportunity Act 
and the National Labor Relations Act and those related to overtime compensation, such as the Fair Labor 
Standards Act; various state and federal laws pertaining to sale and distribution of alcohol beverages; data 
privacy and personal data protection laws and regulations, including the California Consumer Privacy Act 
of 2018 (as modified by the California Privacy Rights Act); customs and foreign trade laws and 
regulations, including laws regarding the import or export of our products or ingredients used in our 
products and tariffs; laws regulating the sale of certain of our products in schools; laws regulating the 
ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products; laws regulating our supply chain, 
including the 2010 California Transparency in Supply Chains Act and laws relating to the payment of 
taxes. We are also required to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Trade Sanctions 
Reform and Export Enhancement Act. We are also subject to various state and local statutes and 
regulations, including state consumer protection laws such as Proposition 65 in California, which requires 
that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the State of California as 
having been found to cause cancer or birth defects, unless the amount of such substance in the product is 
below a safe harbor level. 


We are subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside the United States, including but 
not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, international trade and tariffs, supply chains, 
including the U.K. Modern Slavery Act, occupational health and safety, competition, anti-corruption and 
data privacy, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation. In many jurisdictions, 
compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those 
jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act. We rely on legal 
and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel and other experts, to guide 
our businesses in complying with the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. 


In addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed, or are considering imposing, new or increased taxes 
on the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or 
attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products. These taxes vary in 
scope and form: some apply to all beverages, including non-caloric beverages, while others apply only to 
beverages with a caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). Similarly, some measures apply a single tax rate per 
ounce/liter on beverages containing over a certain level of added sugar (or other sweetener) while others 
apply a graduated tax rate depending upon the amount of added sugar (or other sweetener) in the beverage 
and some apply a flat tax rate on beverages containing a particular substance or ingredient, regardless of 
the level of such substance or ingredient. 


In addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed, or are considering imposing, product labeling or 
warning requirements or other limitations on the marketing or sale of certain of our products as a result of 
ingredients or substances contained in such products or the audience to whom products are marketed. 
These types of provisions have required that we highlight perceived concerns about a product, warn 
consumers to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products, restrict the 
age of consumers to whom products are marketed or sold or limit the location in which our products may 
be available. It is possible that similar or more restrictive requirements may be proposed or enacted in the 
future. 


In addition, certain jurisdictions have either imposed or are considering imposing regulations designed to 
increase recycling rates, encourage waste reduction or to restrict the sale of products utilizing certain 
packaging. These regulations vary in scope and form from deposit return systems designed to incentivize 


the return of beverage containers, to extended producer responsibility policies and even restrictions or 
bans on the use of certain types of packaging, including single-use plastics and packaging containing per- 
and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). It is possible that similar or more restrictive requirements may be 
proposed or enacted in the future. 


We are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the United States and in foreign countries 
in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater 
discharge and air emissions. In the United States, we are subject to the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water 
Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource 
Conservation and Recovery Act and other federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding handling, 
storage, release and disposal of wastes generated onsite and sent to third-party owned and operated offsite 
licensed facilities. Our operations outside the United States are subject to similar laws and regulations. In 
addition, continuing concern over environmental, social and governance matters, including climate 
change, is expected to continue to result in new or increased legal and regulatory requirements (in or 
outside of the United States) to reduce emissions to mitigate the potential effects of greenhouse gases, to 
limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns or to expand 
mandatory reporting of certain environmental, social and governance metrics. Our policy is to abide by all 
applicable environmental laws and regulations, and we have internal programs in place with respect to our 
global environmental compliance. We have made, and plan to continue making, necessary expenditures 
for compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and to achieve our sustainability goals. 
While these expenditures have not had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of 
operations to date, changes in environmental compliance requirements, and expenditures necessary to 
comply with such requirements or to achieve our sustainability goals, could adversely affect our financial 
performance. In addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations 
arising in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in 
connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses or 
properties acquired by us or our subsidiaries. While these environmental remediation and indemnification 
obligations cannot be predicted with certainty, such obligations have not had, and are not expected to 
have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. 


In addition to the discussion in this section, see also “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” 
Human Capital 


PepsiCo believes that human capital management, including attracting, developing and retaining a high 
quality workforce, is critical to our long-term success. Our Board of Directors (Board) and its Committees 
provide oversight on a broad range of human capital management topics, including corporate culture, 
diversity, equity and inclusion, pay equity, health and safety, training and development and compensation 
and benefits. 


We employed approximately 315,000 people worldwide as of December 31, 2022, including 
approximately 132,000 people within the United States. We are party to numerous collective bargaining 
agreements and believe that relations with our employees are generally good. 


Protecting the safety, health, and well-being of our associates around the world is PepsiCo’s top priority. 
We strive to achieve an injury-free work environment. We also continue to invest in emerging 
technologies to protect our employees from injuries, including leveraging fleet telematics and distracted 
driving technology, resulting in reductions in road traffic incidents, and deploying ergonomic and machine 
safety risk reduction solutions. In addition, throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we have remained 
focused on the health and safety of our associates, especially our frontline associates who continue to 
make, move and sell our products during this critical time, including by continuing to implement various 
safety protocols in our facilities, providing personal protective equipment and enabling testing. We are 


10 


also focused on the safety of our associates in Ukraine and have provided humanitarian aid, goods and 
services to support our people and communities facing the ongoing deadly conflict. 


We believe that our culture of diversity, equity and inclusion is a competitive advantage that fuels 
innovation, enhances our ability to attract and retain talent and strengthens our reputation. We continually 
strive to improve the attraction, retention, and advancement of diverse associates to ensure we sustain a 
high-caliber pipeline of talent that also represents the communities we serve. As of December 31, 2022, 
our global workforce was approximately 27% female, while management roles were approximately 44% 
female. As of December 31, 2022, approximately 48% of our U.S. workforce was comprised of racially/ 
ethnically diverse individuals, of which approximately 33% of our U.S. associates in managerial roles 
were racially/ethnically diverse individuals. The Board has overseen appointments of current direct reports 
of our Chief Executive Officer, who include 7 executives globally who are racially/ethnically diverse and/ 
or female. 


We are also committed to the continued growth and development of our associates. PepsiCo supports and 
develops its associates through a variety of global training and development programs that build and 
strengthen employees’ leadership and professional skills, including career development plans, mentoring 
programs and in-house learning opportunities, such as PEP U Degreed, our internal global online learning 
resource. In 2022, PepsiCo employees completed over 1 million hours of training. 


Available Information 


We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with 
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains 
reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically 
with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 


Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, 
proxy statements and amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are also available free of 
charge on our Internet site at http://(www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports 
are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 


Investors should note that we currently announce material information to our investors and others using 
filings with the SEC, press releases, public conference calls, webcasts or our corporate website 
(www.pepsico.com), including news and announcements regarding our financial performance, key 
personnel, our brands and our business strategy. Information that we post on our corporate website could 
be deemed material to investors. We encourage investors, the media, our customers, consumers, business 
partners and others interested in us to review the information we post on these channels. We may from 
time to time update the list of channels we will use to communicate information that could be deemed 
material and will post information about any such change on www.pepsico.com. The information on our 
website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other 
filings with the SEC. 


Item 1A. Risk Factors. 


The following risks, some of which have occurred and any of which may occur in the future, can have a 
material adverse effect on our business or financial performance, which in turn can affect the price of our 
publicly traded securities. These are not the only risks we face. There may be other risks we are not 
currently aware of or that we currently deem not to be material but that may become material in the future. 


11 


Business Risks 
Risks associated with the deadly conflict in Ukraine 


The deadly conflict in Ukraine has continued to result in worldwide geopolitical and macroeconomic 
uncertainty and certain of our operations in Ukraine remain suspended. The conflict has resulted and could 
continue to result in volatile commodity markets, supply chain disruptions, increased risk of cyber 
incidents or other disruptions to our information systems, reputational risk, heightened risks to employee 
safety, business disruptions (including labor shortages), significant volatility of the Russian ruble, 
limitations on access to credit markets and other corporate banking services, including working capital 
facilities, reduced availability and increased costs for transportation, energy, packaging and raw materials 
and other input costs, environmental, health and safety risks related to securing and maintaining facilities, 
additional sanctions, export controls and other legislation or regulations (including restrictions on the 
transfer of funds to and from Russia). The ongoing conflict could result in the temporary or permanent 
loss of assets or result in additional impairment charges. We cannot predict how and the extent to which 
the conflict will continue to affect our employees, operations, customers, consumers or business partners 
or our ability to achieve certain of our sustainability goals. The conflict has adversely affected and could 
continue to adversely affect demand for our products and our global business. 


Reduction in future demand for our products would adversely affect our business. 


Demand for our products depends in part on our ability to innovate and anticipate and effectively respond 
to shifts in consumer trends and preferences, including the types of products our consumers want and how 
they browse for, purchase and consume them. Consumer preferences continuously evolve due to a variety 
of factors, including: changes in consumer demographics, consumption patterns and channel preferences 
(including continued increases in the e-commerce and online-to-offline channels); pricing; product 
quality; concerns or perceptions regarding packaging and its environmental impact (such as single-use and 
other plastic packaging); and concerns or perceptions regarding the nutrition profile and health effects of, 
or location of origin of, ingredients or substances in our products or packaging, including due to the results 
of third-party studies (whether or not scientifically valid). Concerns with any of the foregoing could lead 
consumers to reduce or publicly boycott the purchase or consumption of our products. Pandemics, 
epidemics or other disease outbreaks, such as COVID-19, have also impacted and could continue to 
impact consumer preferences and demand for our products. Consumer preferences are also influenced by 
perception of our brand image or the brand images of our products, the success of our advertising and 
marketing campaigns, our ability to engage with our consumers in the manner they prefer, including 
through the use of digital media or assets, and the perception of our use, the use of social media and our 
response to political and social issues or catastrophic events. These and other factors have reduced in the 
past and could continue to reduce consumers’ willingness to purchase certain of our products. Any 
inability on our part to anticipate or react to changes in consumer preferences and trends, or make the right 
strategic investments to do so, including investments in data analytics to understand consumer trends, can 
lead to reduced demand for our products, lead to inventory write-offs or erode our competitive and 
financial position, thereby adversely affecting our business. In addition, our business operations, including 
our supply chain, are subject to disruption by natural disasters, pandemics, epidemics or other events 
beyond our control that could negatively impact product availability and decrease demand for our products 
if our crisis management plans do not effectively mitigate these issues. 


Damage to our reputation or brand image can adversely affect our business. 


Maintaining a positive reputation globally is critical to selling our products. Our reputation or brand image 
has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely impacted by a variety of factors, including: any 
failure by us or our business partners to maintain high ethical, business and environmental, social and 
governance practices, including with respect to human rights, child labor laws, diversity, equity and 


12 


inclusion, workplace conditions and employee health and safety; any failure, or perception of a failure, to 
achieve our environmental, social and governance goals, including with respect to the nutrition profile of 
our products, diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, packaging, water use and our impact on the 
environment; any failure to address health or other concerns about our products, products we distribute 
(including alcoholic beverages), or particular ingredients in our products, including concerns regarding 
whether certain of our products contribute to obesity or an increase in public health costs; our research and 
development efforts; any product quality or safety issues, including the recall of any of our products; any 
failure to comply with laws and regulations; consumer perception of our advertising campaigns, 
sponsorship arrangements, marketing programs, use of social media and our response to political and 
social issues or catastrophic events; or any failure to effectively respond to negative or inaccurate 
comments about us on social media or otherwise regarding any of the foregoing. Damage to our reputation 
or brand image has in the past and could in the future decrease demand for our products, thereby adversely 
affecting our business. 


Product recalls or other issues or concerns with respect to product quality and safety can adversely 
affect our business. 


We have and could in the future recall products due to product quality or safety issues, including actual or 
alleged mislabeling, misbranding, spoilage, undeclared allergens, adulteration or contamination. Joint 
ventures in which we have an interest have also recalled, and could in the future recall, products for the 
same or other reasons. Product recalls have in the past and could in the future adversely affect our 
business by resulting in losses due to their cost, the destruction of product inventory or lost sales due to 
any unavailability of the product for a period of time. In addition, product quality or safety issues, whether 
as a result of failure to comply with food safety laws or otherwise, have in the past and could in the future 
also reduce consumer confidence and demand for our products, cause production and delivery disruptions, 
and result in increased costs (including payment of fines and/or judgments) and damage our reputation (or 
the reputation of joint ventures in which we have an interest), particularly as we or our joint ventures 
continue to expand into new categories, such as the distribution of alcoholic beverages, all of which can 
adversely affect our business. Failure to maintain adequate oversight over product quality or safety can 
result in product recalls, litigation, government investigations or inquiries or civil or criminal proceedings, 
all of which may result in fines, penalties, damages or criminal liability. Our business can also be 
adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in product quality, safety and integrity generally, even if 
such loss of confidence is unrelated to products in our portfolio. 


Any inability to compete effectively can adversely affect our business. 


Our products compete against products of international beverage and convenient food companies that, like 
us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local and private label and economy brand 
manufacturers and other competitors, including smaller companies developing and selling micro brands 
directly to consumers through e-commerce platforms or through retailers focused on locally sourced 
products. In many countries in which our products are sold, including the United States, The Coca-Cola 
Company is our primary beverage competitor. Our products compete primarily on the basis of brand 
recognition and loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, 
marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and 
effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends. Our business can be adversely affected if we are 
unable to effectively promote or develop our existing products or introduce and effectively market new 
products, if we are unable to effectively adopt new technologies, including artificial intelligence and data 
analytics to develop new commercial insights and improve operating efficiencies, if we are unable to 
continuously strengthen and evolve our capabilities in digital marketing, if our competitors spend more 
aggressively than we do or if we are otherwise unable to effectively respond to supply disruptions, pricing 
pressure (including as a result of commodity inflation) or otherwise compete effectively, and we may be 


13 


unable to grow or maintain sales or category share or we may need to increase capital, marketing or other 
expenditures. 


Failure to attract, develop and maintain a highly skilled and diverse workforce or effectively manage 
changes in our workforce can have an adverse effect on our business. 


Our business requires that we attract, develop and maintain a highly skilled and diverse workforce. Our 
employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies and our continued ability to 
compete effectively depends on our ability to attract, retain, develop and motivate highly skilled personnel 
for all areas of our organization. Our ability to do so has been and may continue to be impacted by 
challenges in the labor market, which has experienced and may continue to experience wage inflation, 
labor shortages, increased employee turnover, changes in availability of our workforce and a shift toward 
remote work. Any unplanned turnover, sustained labor shortage or unsuccessful implementation of our 
succession plans to backfill current leadership positions, including the Chief Executive Officer, or failure 
to attract, develop and maintain a highly skilled and diverse workforce, including with key capabilities 
such as e-commerce and digital marketing and data analytic skills, can deplete our institutional knowledge 
base, erode our competitive advantage or result in increased costs due to increased competition for 
employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. In addition, failure to attract, 
retain and develop associates from underrepresented communities can damage our business results and our 
reputation. Any of the foregoing can adversely affect our business. 


Water scarcity can adversely affect our business. 


We and our business partners use water in the manufacturing of our products. Water is also essential to the 
production of the raw materials needed in our manufacturing process. Lack of available water of 
acceptable quality, actions by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, customers 
and consumers on water scarcity and increasing pressure to conserve and replenish water in areas of 
scarcity and stress, including due to the effects of climate change, can lead to: supply chain disruption; 
adverse effects on our operations or the operations of our business partners; higher compliance costs; 
increased capital expenditures (including investments in the development of technologies to enhance water 
efficiency and reduce consumption); higher production costs, including less favorable pricing for water; 
the interruption or cessation of operations at, or relocation of, our facilities or the facilities of our business 
partners; failure to achieve our goals relating to water use; perception of our failure to act responsibly with 
respect to water use or to effectively respond to legal or regulatory requirements concerning water 
scarcity; or damage to our reputation, any of which can adversely affect our business. 


Changes in the retail landscape or in sales to any key customer can adversely affect our business. 


The retail landscape continues to evolve, including continued growth in e-commerce channels and hard 
discounters. Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain and develop successful 
relationships with e-commerce retailers and hard discounters, while also maintaining relationships with 
our key customers operating in traditional retail channels (many of whom are also focused on increasing 
their e-commerce sales). Our business can be adversely affected if e-commerce channels and hard 
discounters take significant additional market share away from traditional retailers or we fail to find ways 
to create increasingly better digital tools and capabilities for our retail customers to enable them to grow 
their businesses. In addition, our business can be adversely affected if we are unable to profitably expand 
our own direct-to-consumer e-commerce capabilities. The retail industry is also impacted by increased 
consolidation of ownership and purchasing power, particularly in North America, Europe and Latin 
America, resulting in large retailers or buying groups with increased purchasing power, impacting our 
ability to compete in these areas. Consolidation also adversely impacts our smaller customers’ ability to 
compete effectively, resulting in an inability on their part to pay for our products or reduced or canceled 
orders of our products. Further, we must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key 


14 


customers, including Walmart, to compete effectively. Any inability to resolve a significant dispute with 
any of our key customers, a change in the business condition (financial or otherwise) of any of our key 
customers, even if unrelated to us, a significant reduction in sales to any key customer, or the loss of any 
of our key customers can adversely affect our business. 


Disruption of our manufacturing operations or supply chain, including continued increased 
commodity, packaging, transportation, labor and other input costs, can adversely affect our business. 


We have experienced and could continue to experience disruption in our manufacturing operations and 
supply chain. Many of the raw materials and supplies used in the production of our products are sourced 
from countries experiencing civil unrest, political instability or unfavorable economic conditions. Some 
raw materials and supplies, including packaging materials, are available only from a limited number of 
suppliers or from a sole supplier or are in short supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. There can be 
no assurance that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with suppliers or 
that our contingency plans will be effective to mitigate disruptions that may arise from shortages or 
discontinuation of any raw materials and other supplies that we use in the manufacture, production and 
distribution of our products or from operational or financial instability of our key suppliers. Any sustained 
or significant disruption in the future to the manufacturing or sourcing of products or materials could 
increase our costs and interrupt product supply, which can adversely impact our business. 


The raw materials and other supplies, including agricultural commodities, fuel and packaging materials, 
such as recycled PET, transportation, labor and other supply chain inputs that we use for the 
manufacturing, production and distribution of our products are subject to price volatility and fluctuations 
in availability caused by many factors, including changes in supply and demand, supplier capacity 
constraints, inflation, weather conditions (including potential effects of climate change), fire, natural 
disasters, disease or pests (including the impact of greening disease on the citrus industry), agricultural 
uncertainty, health epidemics or pandemics or other contagious outbreaks (including COVID-19), labor 
shortages or changes in availability of our or our business partners’ workforce (including the lack of 
availability of truck drivers or as a result of COVID-19), strikes or work stoppages (including by railway 
workers or other third parties involved in the manufacture, production and distribution of our products), 
governmental incentives and controls (including import/export restrictions, such as new or increased 
tariffs, sanctions, quotas or trade barriers), port congestions or delays, transport capacity constraints, 
cybersecurity incidents or other disruptions, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, political 
uncertainties, acts of terrorism, governmental instability or currency exchange rates. Many of our raw 
materials and supplies are purchased in the open market and the prices we pay for such items are subject 
to fluctuation. We experienced higher than anticipated commodity, packaging and transportation costs 
during 2022, which may continue. When input prices increase unexpectedly or significantly, we may be 
unwilling or unable to increase our product prices or unable to effectively hedge against price increases to 
offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue, margins and operating results. 


Political and social conditions can adversely affect our business. 


Political and social conditions in the markets in which our products are sold have been and could continue 
to be difficult to predict, resulting in adverse effects on our business. The results of elections, referendums 
or other political conditions (including government shutdowns or hostilities between countries) in these 
markets have in the past and could continue to impact how existing laws, regulations and government 
programs or policies are implemented or result in uncertainty as to how such laws, regulations, programs 
or policies may change, including with respect to tariffs, sanctions, environmental and climate change 
regulations, taxes, benefit programs, the movement of goods, services and people between countries, 
relationships between countries, customer or consumer perception of a particular country or its 
government and other matters, and has resulted in and could continue to result in exchange rate 
fluctuation, volatility in global stock markets and global economic uncertainty or adversely affect demand 


15 


for our products, any of which can adversely affect our business. In addition, political and social 
conditions in certain cities throughout the U.S. as well as globally have resulted in demonstrations and 
protests, including in connection with political elections and civil rights and liberties. Our operations or 
the operations of our business partners, including the distribution of our products and the ingredients or 
other raw materials used in the production of our products, may be disrupted if such events persist for a 
prolonged period of time, including due to actions taken by governmental authorities in affected cities and 
regions, which can adversely affect our business. 


Our business can be adversely affected if we are unable to grow in developing and emerging markets. 


Our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in developing and emerging markets, 
including Mexico, the Middle East, China, South Africa, Brazil and India. There can be no assurance that 
our products will be accepted or be successful in any particular developing or emerging market, due to 
competition, price, cultural differences, consumer preferences, method of distribution or otherwise. Our 
business in these markets has been and could continue in the future to be impacted by economic, political 
and social conditions; acts of war, terrorist acts, and civil unrest, including demonstrations and protests; 
competition; tariffs, sanctions or other regulations restricting contact with certain countries in these 
markets; foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets or the assets of our business partners; 
government-mandated closure, or threatened closure, of our operations or the operations of our business 
partners; restrictions on the import or export of our products or ingredients or substances used in our 
products; highly inflationary economies; devaluation or fluctuation or demonetization of currency; 
regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, currency controls or other currency 
exchange restrictions, which result in significant cash balances in foreign countries, from time to time, or 
can significantly affect our ability to effectively manage our operations in certain of these markets and can 
result in the deconsolidation of such businesses; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems; 
increased costs of doing business due to compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations 
that apply to our international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery 
Act and the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act; and adverse consequences, such as the 
assessment of fines or penalties, for any failure to comply with laws and regulations. Our business can be 
adversely affected if we are unable to expand our business in developing and emerging markets, 
effectively operate, or manage the risks associated with operating, in these markets, or achieve the return 
on capital we expect from our investments in these markets. 


Changes in economic conditions can adversely impact our business. 


Many of the jurisdictions in which our products are sold have experienced and could continue to 
experience uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions, such as high inflation and adverse changes in 
interest rates, tax laws or tax rates, which could result in recessions or economic slowdowns; volatile 
commodity markets; labor shortages; highly inflationary economies, devaluation, fluctuation or 
demonetization of currency; contraction in the availability of credit; austerity or stimulus measures; the 
effects of any default by or deterioration in the creditworthiness of the countries in which our products are 
sold; or a decrease in the fair value of pension or post-retirement assets that could increase future 
employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension or post-retirement plans. In addition, 
we cannot predict how current or future economic conditions will affect our business partners, including 
financial institutions with whom we do business, and any negative impact on any of the foregoing may 
also have an adverse impact on our business. 


Future cyber incidents and other disruptions to our information systems can adversely affect our 
business. 


We depend on information systems and technology, including public websites and cloud-based services, 
for many activities important to our business, including communications within our company, interfacing 


16 


with customers and consumers; ordering and managing inventory; managing and operating our facilities; 
protecting confidential information, including personal data we collect; maintaining accurate financial 
records and complying with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. Our business has 
in the past and could in the future be negatively affected by system shutdowns, degraded systems 
performance, systems disruptions or security incidents. These disruptions or incidents may be caused by 
cyberattacks and other cyber incidents, network or power outages, software, equipment or 
telecommunications failures, the unintentional or malicious actions of employees or contractors, natural 
disasters, fires or other catastrophic events. In addition, the increase in certain of our employees working 
remotely has resulted in increased demand on our information technology infrastructure, which can be 
subject to failure, disruption or unavailability, and increased vulnerability to cyberattacks and other cyber 
incidents. Cyberattacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, the techniques used to 
gain access to information technology systems and data, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems 
are constantly evolving and becoming more sophisticated in nature and are being carried out by groups 
and individuals with a wide range of expertise and motives. Cyberattacks and cyber incidents may be 
difficult to detect for periods of time and take many forms including cyber extortion, denial of service, 
social engineering, introduction of viruses or malware (such as ransomware), exploiting vulnerabilities in 
hardware, software or other infrastructure, hacking, website defacement or theft of passwords and other 
credentials, unauthorized use of computing resources for digital currency mining and business email 
compromise. As with other global companies, we are regularly subject to cyberattacks and other cyber 
incidents, including the types of attacks and incidents described above. If we do not allocate and 
effectively manage the resources necessary to continue building and maintaining our information 
technology infrastructure, or if we fail to timely identify or appropriately respond to cyberattacks or other 
cyber incidents, our business has been and can continue to be adversely affected, which has resulted in and 
can continue to result in some or all of the following: transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, inability 
to access our data or systems, lost revenues or other costs resulting from disruptions or shutdowns of 
offices, plants, warehouses, distribution centers or other facilities, intellectual property or other data loss, 
litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations, fines or penalties, 
remediation costs, damage to our reputation or a negative impact on employee morale and the loss of 
current or potential customers. In addition, these risks also exist in acquired businesses, joint ventures or 
companies we invest in or partner with that use separate information systems or that have not yet been 
fully integrated into our information systems. 


Similar risks exist with respect to our business partners and third-party providers, including suppliers, 
software and cloud-based service providers, that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology 
support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan 
administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and the systems managed, hosted, provided 
and/or used by such third parties and their vendors. For example, malicious actors have employed and 
could continue to employ the information technology supply chain to introduce malware through software 
updates or compromised supplier accounts or hardware. The need to coordinate with various third-party 
service providers, including with respect to timely notification and access to personnel and information 
concerning an incident, may complicate our efforts to address issues that arise. As a result, we are subject 
to the risk that the activities associated with our third-party service providers can adversely affect our 
business even if the attack or breach does not directly impact our systems or information. 


Although the cyber incidents and other systems disruptions that we have experienced to date have not had 
a material effect on our business, such incidents or disruptions could have a material adverse effect on us 
in the future. While we devote significant resources to network security, disaster recovery, employee 
training and other measures to secure our information technology systems and prevent unauthorized 
access to or loss of data, there are no guarantees that they will be adequate to safeguard against all cyber 
incidents, systems disruptions, system compromises or misuses of data. In addition, while we currently 


17 


maintain insurance coverage that, subject to its terms and conditions, is intended to address costs 
associated with certain aspects of cyber incidents and information systems failures, this insurance 
coverage may not, depending on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding an incident, cover all 
losses or all types of claims that arise from an incident, or the damage to our reputation or brands that may 
result from an incident. 


Failure to successfully complete or manage strategic transactions can adversely affect our business. 


We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, 
distribution agreements, divestitures, refranchisings and other strategic transactions. The success of these 
transactions is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to realize the full extent of the expected 
returns, benefits, cost savings or synergies as a result of a transaction, within the anticipated time frame, or 
at all; and receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals. Risks associated with strategic 
transactions include integrating manufacturing, distribution, sales, accounting, financial reporting and 
administrative support activities and information technology systems with our company or difficulties 
separating such personnel, activities and systems in connection with divestitures; operating through new 
business models or in new categories or territories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key 
employees; conforming controls (including internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls 
and procedures and data protection and cybersecurity) and policies (including with respect to 
environmental compliance, health and safety compliance and compliance with anti-bribery laws); 
retaining existing customers and consumers and attracting new customers and consumers; managing tax 
costs or inefficiencies; maintaining good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply 
or sales chain; inability to offset loss of revenue associated with divested brands or businesses; managing 
the impact of business decisions or other actions or omissions of our joint venture partners that may have 
different interests than we do; and other unanticipated problems or liabilities, such as contingent liabilities 
and litigation. Strategic transactions that are not successfully completed or managed effectively, or our 
failure to effectively manage the risks associated with such transactions, have in the past and could 
continue to result in adverse effects on our business. 


Our reliance on third-party service providers and enterprise-wide systems can have an adverse effect on 
our business. 


We rely on third-party service providers, including cloud data service providers, for certain areas of our 
business, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and 
accounting functions. Failure by these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other 
obligations to us, or our failure to adequately monitor their performance, has in the past and could 
continue to result in our inability to achieve the expected cost savings or efficiencies and result in 
additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. Depending on the function involved, 
such errors can also lead to business disruption, systems performance degradation, processing 
inefficiencies or other systems disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data 
through security breaches or otherwise, incorrect or adverse effects on financial reporting, litigation, 
claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations, fines or penalties, remediation costs, 
damage to our reputation or have a negative impact on employee morale, all of which can adversely affect 
our business. 


In addition, we continue on our multi-year phased business transformation initiative to migrate certain of 
our systems, including our financial processing systems, to enterprise-wide systems solutions and have 
begun to roll out these systems in certain countries and divisions. We have experienced and could 
continue to experience systems outages and operating inefficiencies following these planned 
implementations. In addition, if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build 
and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits 
from this initiative, our business could be adversely affected. 


18 


Climate change or measures to address climate change can negatively affect our business or damage 
our reputation. 


Climate change may increase the frequency or severity of natural disasters and other extreme weather 
conditions (including rising temperatures and drought), which could pose physical risks to our facilities, 
impair our production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. Climate 
change may also have a negative effect on agricultural production resulting in decreased availability or 
less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as potatoes, sugar 
cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, oranges and other commodities. Also, there is an increased focus in many 
jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold regarding environmental 
policies relating to climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions, energy policies and 
sustainability, including single-use plastics. This increased focus may result in new or increased legal and 
regulatory requirements, such as potential carbon pricing programs or revised product labeling 
requirements or other regulatory measures, which could, along with initiatives to meet our sustainability 
goals, continue to result in significant increased costs and require additional investments in facilities and 
equipment. As a result, the effects of climate change can negatively affect our business and operations. In 
addition, any failure to achieve or properly report on our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the 
environment or perception of a failure to act responsibly with respect to the environment or to effectively 
respond to regulatory requirements concerning climate change can lead to adverse publicity, which could 
result in reduced demand for our products, damage to our reputation or increase the risk of litigation. Any 
of the foregoing can adversely affect our business. 


Strikes or work stoppages can cause our business to suffer. 


Many of our employees and employees of third parties that are involved in the manufacturing, production 
or distribution of our products are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and other employees may 
seek to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. Strikes or work stoppages or other business 
interruptions have occurred and may occur in the future if we or the third parties that are involved in the 
manufacturing, production and distribution of our products are unable to renew, or enter into new, 
collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms and can impair manufacturing and distribution of 
our products, interrupt product supply, lead to a loss of sales, increase our costs or otherwise affect our 
ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency or to adapt to changing 
business needs or strategy, all of which can adversely affect our business. 


Financial Risks 


Failure to realize benefits from our productivity initiatives can adversely affect our financial 
performance. 


Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to continue to reduce costs and improve efficiencies, 
including our multi-year phased implementation of shared business service organizational models. We 
continue to identify and implement productivity initiatives that we believe will position our business for 
long-term sustainable growth by allowing us to achieve a lower cost structure, improve decision-making 
and operate more efficiently. Some of these measures result in unintended consequences, such as business 
disruptions, distraction of management and employees, reduced morale and productivity, unexpected 
employee attrition, an inability to attract or retain key personnel and negative publicity. If we are unable to 
successfully implement our productivity initiatives as planned or do not achieve expected savings as a 
result of these initiatives, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, resulting in adverse 
effects on our financial performance. 


A deterioration in our estimates and underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our 
business can result in an impairment charge that can adversely affect our results of operations. 


We conduct impairment tests on our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets annually or more 
frequently if circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. In addition, amortizable 


19 


intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment 
upon a significant change in the operating or macroeconomic environment. A deterioration in our 
underlying assumptions regarding the impact of competitive operating conditions, macroeconomic 
conditions, including the interest rate environment, or other factors used to estimate the future 
performance of any of our reporting units or assets, including any deterioration in the weighted-average 
cost of capital based on market data available at the time, have resulted and could in the future result in an 
impairment charge, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. 


Fluctuations in exchange rates impact our financial performance. 


Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of our 
subsidiaries outside the United States, where the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar, are 
translated into U.S. dollars. Given our global operations, we also pay for the ingredients, raw materials 
and commodities used in our business in numerous currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates, including as 
a result of inflation, central bank monetary policies, currency controls or other currency exchange 
restrictions have had, and could continue to have, an adverse impact on our financial performance. 


Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets can be adversely affected by a downgrade 
or potential downgrade of our credit ratings. 


Rating agencies routinely evaluate us and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our 
cash generating capability, levels of indebtedness, policies with respect to shareholder distributions and 
our financial strength generally, as well as factors beyond our control, such as the state of the economy 
and our industry. We expect to maintain Tier 1 commercial paper access, which we believe will facilitate 
appropriate financial flexibility and ready access to global credit markets at favorable interest rates. Any 
downgrade or announcement that we are under review for a potential downgrade of our credit ratings, 
especially any downgrade to below investment grade, can increase our future borrowing costs, impair our 
ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all, result in a 
reduction in our liquidity, or impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same 
flexibility that we have experienced historically (and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more 
expensive types of debt financing), all of which can adversely affect our financial performance. 


Legal, Tax and Regulatory Risks 


Taxes aimed at our products can adversely affect our business or financial performance. 


Certain jurisdictions in which our products are sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, new 
or increased taxes on the manufacture, distribution or sale of certain of our products, particularly our 
beverages, as a result of ingredients contained in our products. These taxes vary in scope and form: some 
apply to all beverages, including non-caloric beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a 
caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). Similarly, some measures apply a single tax rate per ounce/liter on 
beverages containing over a certain amount of added sugar (or other sweetener), some apply a graduated 
tax rate depending upon the amount of added sugar (or other sweetener) in the beverage and others apply a 
flat tax rate on beverages containing any amount of added sugar (or other sweetener). For example, Italy 
enacted a flat tax on all beverages, including zero calorie beverages, effective January 1, 2023, at a rate of 
EUR 10 cent (0.11 U.S. dollars) per liter. These tax measures, whatever their scope or form, have in the 
past and could continue to increase the cost of certain of our products, reduce overall consumption of our 
products or lead to negative publicity, resulting in an adverse effect on our business and financial 
performance. 


20 


Limitations on the marketing or sale of our products can adversely affect our business and financial 
performance. 


Certain jurisdictions in which our products are sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, 
limitations on the marketing or sale of our products as a result of ingredients or substances in our products. 
These limitations require that we highlight perceived concerns about a product, warn consumers to avoid 
consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products, restrict the age of consumers to 
whom products are marketed or sold or limit the location in which our products may be available. For 
example, Brazil and Canada enacted warning labeling requirements in 2022 to indicate whether a 
particular pre-packaged food or beverage product is considered to be high in sugar, sodium or saturated 
fat. Certain jurisdictions have imposed or are considering imposing color-coded labeling requirements 
where colors such as red, yellow and green are used to indicate various levels of a particular ingredient, 
such as sugar, sodium or saturated fat, in products. The imposition or proposed imposition of additional 
limitations on the marketing or sale of our products has in the past and could continue to reduce overall 
consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity or leave consumers with the perception that our 
products do not meet their health and wellness needs, resulting in an adverse effect on our business and 
financial performance. 


Laws and regulations related to the use or disposal of plastics or other packaging materials can 
adversely affect our business and financial performance. 


We rely on diverse packaging solutions to safely deliver products to our customers and consumers. Certain 
of our products are sold in packaging designed to be recyclable, commercially compostable, biodegradable 
or reusable. However, not all packaging is recovered, whether due to lack of infrastructure or otherwise, 
and certain of our packaging is not currently recyclable, commercially compostable, biodegradable or 
reusable. Packaging waste not properly disposed of that displays one or more of our brands has in the past 
resulted in and could continue to result in negative publicity, litigation, government action or reduced 
consumer demand for our products, adversely affecting our financial performance. Many jurisdictions in 
which our products are sold have imposed or are considering imposing laws, regulations or policies 
intended to encourage the use of sustainable packaging, waste reduction or increased recycling rates or to 
restrict the sale of products utilizing certain packaging. These laws, regulations and policies vary in form 
and scope and include extended producer responsibility policies, plastic or packaging taxes, restrictions on 
certain products and materials, requirements for bottle caps to be tethered to bottles, restrictions or bans on 
the use of certain types of packaging, including single-use plastics and packaging containing PFAS, 
restrictions on labeling related to recyclability and requirements to charge deposit fees. For example, the 
European Union, Peru and certain states in the United States, among other jurisdictions, have imposed a 
minimum recycled content requirement for beverage bottle packaging and similar legislation is under 
consideration in other jurisdictions. These laws and regulations have in the past and could continue to 
increase the cost of our products, impact demand for our products, result in negative publicity and require 
us and our business partners, including our independent bottlers, to increase capital expenditures to invest 
in reducing the amount of virgin plastic or other materials used in our packaging, to develop alternative 
packaging or to revise product labeling, all of which can adversely affect our business and financial 
performance. 


Failure to comply with personal data protection and privacy laws can adversely affect our business. 


We are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in numerous 
jurisdictions regarding personal data protection and privacy laws. These laws and regulations may be 
interpreted and applied differently from country to country or, within the United States, from state to state, 
and can create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. Our efforts to comply with these laws and 
regulations, including the California Consumer Privacy Act, which was significantly modified by the 
California Privacy Rights Act, as well as new comprehensive privacy legislation passed in Virginia, 
Colorado, Utah and Connecticut, as well as the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation and 
China's Personal Information Protection Act, impose significant costs and challenges that are likely to 


21 


continue to increase over time, particularly as additional jurisdictions continue to adopt similar 
regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or to otherwise protect personal data from 
unauthorized access, use or other processing, have in the past and could in the future result in litigation, 
claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations, damage to our reputation, fines or 
penalties, all of which can adversely affect our business. 


Increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or disagreements with tax authorities can 
adversely affect our financial performance. 


Increases in income tax rates or other changes in tax laws, including changes in how existing tax laws are 
interpreted or enforced, can adversely affect our financial performance. For example, economic and 
political conditions in countries where we are subject to taxes, including the United States, have in the past 
and could continue to result in significant changes in tax legislation or regulation. For example, numerous 
countries have agreed to a statement in support of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and 
Development model rules that propose a partial global profit reallocation and a global minimum tax rate of 
15% and European Union member states have recently agreed to implement the global minimum tax. 
There can be no assurance that other individual countries will adopt these changes, or that once adopted by 
any country, that these changes will not have adverse effects on our financial performance. This 
increasingly complex global tax environment has in the past and could continue to increase tax 
uncertainty, resulting in higher compliance costs and adverse effects on our financial performance. We are 
also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by numerous taxing authorities with respect to 
income and non-income based taxes. Economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in 
jurisdictions in which we operate, or the adoption of new or reformed tax legislation or regulation, has 
made and could continue to make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution of tax 
audits and any related litigation can differ from our historical provisions and accruals, resulting in an 
adverse effect on our financial performance. 


If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or if we are found to infringe on 
the intellectual property rights of others, our business can be adversely affected. 


We possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business, including ingredient formulas, 
trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets. The laws of various 
jurisdictions in which we operate have differing levels of protection of intellectual property. Our 
competitive position and the value of our products and brands can be reduced and our business adversely 
affected if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property, including our ingredient 
formulas, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections afforded our 
intellectual property. Also, in the course of developing new products or improving the quality of existing 
products, we have in the past been alleged to have infringed, and could in the future infringe or be alleged 
to infringe, on the intellectual property rights of others. Such infringement or allegations of infringement 
could result in expensive litigation and damages, damage to our reputation, disruption to our operations, 
injunctions against development, manufacturing, use and/or sale of certain products, inventory write-offs 
or other limitations on our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products, 
resulting in an adverse effect on our business. 


Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our business can adversely affect our 
business. 


The conduct of our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the production, 
storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, content (including whether a product 
contains genetically engineered ingredients), quality, safety, transportation, traceability, sourcing 
(including pesticide use), packaging, disposal, recycling and use of our products or raw materials, 
employment and occupational health and safety, environmental, social and governance matters and 
reporting (including climate change) and data privacy and protection. In addition, in many jurisdictions, 


22 


compliance with competition and antitrust laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive 
position, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. The imposition of new laws, changes in laws or 
regulatory requirements or changing interpretations thereof, changes in the enforcement priorities of 
regulators, and differing or competing regulations and standards across the markets where our products or 
raw materials are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, have in the past and could continue to result in 
higher compliance costs, capital expenditures and higher production costs, or make it necessary for us to 
reformulate certain of our products, resulting in adverse effects on our business. For example, increasing 
governmental and societal attention to environmental, social and governance matters has resulted and 
could continue to result in new laws or regulatory requirements, including expanded disclosure 
requirements that are expected to continue to expand the nature, scope and complexity of matters on 
which we are required to report. In addition, the entry into new markets or categories, including our recent 
entry into the alcoholic beverage industry as a distributor, has resulted in and could continue to result in 
our business being subject to additional regulations resulting in higher compliance costs. If one 
jurisdiction imposes or proposes to impose new laws or regulations that impact the manufacture, 
distribution or sale of our products, other jurisdictions may follow. Failure to comply with such laws or 
regulations (or allegations thereof) can subject us to criminal or civil investigations or enforcement 
actions, including voluntary and involuntary document requests, fines, injunctions, product recalls, 
penalties, disgorgement of profits or activity restrictions, all of which can adversely affect our business. In 
addition, the results of third-party studies (whether or not scientifically valid) purporting to assess the 
health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in certain of our products 
or packaging materials have resulted in and could continue to result in our being subject to new taxes and 
regulations or lawsuits that can adversely affect our business. 


Potential liabilities and costs from litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or 
investigations can have an adverse impact on our business. 


We and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, 
inquiries and investigations, including but not limited to matters related to our advertising, marketing or 
commercial practices, product labels, claims and ingredients, personal injury and property damage, 
intellectual property rights, privacy, employment, tax and insurance matters, environmental, social and 
governance matters and matters relating to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. These 
matters are inherently uncertain and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves 
or that our assessment of the materiality of these matters and the likely outcome or potential losses and 
established reserves will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such matters. Responding to these 
matters, even those that are ultimately non-meritorious, requires us to incur significant expense and devote 
significant resources, and may generate adverse publicity that damages our reputation or brand image. 
Any of the foregoing can adversely affect our business. 


Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 


We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC 
that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2022 year and that remain unresolved. 


23 


Item 2. Properties. 


Our principal executive office located in Purchase, New York and our facilities located in Plano, Texas, 
all of which we own, are our most significant corporate properties. 


In connection with making, marketing, distributing and selling our products, each division utilizes 
manufacturing, processing, bottling and production plants, warehouses, distribution centers, storage 
facilities, offices, including division headquarters, research and development facilities and other facilities, 
all of which are either owned or leased. 


Significant properties by division are as follows: 


Property Type Location Owned/ Leased 
FLNA Research and development facility Plano, Texas Owned 
QFNA Convenient food plant Cedar Rapids, Iowa Owned 
PBNA Research and development facility Valhalla, New York Owned 
PBNA Concentrate plant Arlington, Texas Owned 
LatAm Convenient food plant Celaya, Mexico Owned 
LatAm Two convenient food plants Vallejo, Mexico Owned 
Europe Convenient food plant Leicester, United Kingdom Leased 
Europe Convenient food plant Kashira, Russia Owned 
Europe Manufacturing plant Lehavim, Israel Owned 
Europe Dairy plant Moscow, Russia Owned “ 
AMESA Convenient food plant Riyadh, Saudi Arabia Owned ® 
APAC Convenient food plant Wuhan, China Owned “ 
FLNA, QFNA, PBNA Shared service center Winston Salem, North Carolina Leased 
PBNA, LatAm Concentrate plant Colonia, Uruguay Owned ® 
PBNA, Europe, AMESA Two concentrate plants Cork, Ireland Owned 
PBNA, AMESA, APAC Concentrate plant Singapore Owned ® 
All divisions Shared service center Hyderabad, India Leased 


(a) The land on which these properties are located is leased. 


Most of our plants are owned or leased on a long-term basis. In addition to company-owned or leased 
properties described above, we also utilize a highly distributed network of plants, warehouses and 
distribution centers that are owned or leased by our contract manufacturers, co-packers, strategic alliances 
or joint ventures in which we have an equity interest. We believe that our properties generally are in good 
operating condition and, taken as a whole, are suitable, adequate and of sufficient capacity for our current 
operations. 


Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 


We and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, 
inquiries and investigations. While the results of such litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, 
inquiries and investigations cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes that the final 
outcome of the foregoing will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of 
operations or cash flows. See also “Item 1. Business — Regulatory Matters” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” 


Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 


Not applicable. 


24 


Information About Our Executive Officers 


The following is a list of names, ages and backgrounds of our current executive officers: 


Name Age Title 

David J. Flavell 51 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, 
PepsiCo 

Marie T. Gallagher 63 Senior Vice President and Controller, PepsiCo 

Hugh F. Johnston 61 Vice Chairman, PepsiCo; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer, PepsiCo 

Ram Krishnan 52 Chief Executive Officer, International Beverages and Chief Commercial 
Officer 

Ramon L. Laguarta 59 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo 

Silviu Popovici 55 Chief Executive Officer, Europe 

Paula Santilli 58 Chief Executive Officer, Latin America 

Ronald Schellekens 58 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, PepsiCo 

Kirk Tanner 54 Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Beverages North America 

Eugene Willemsen 55 Chief Executive Officer, Africa, Middle East, South Asia 

Steven Williams 57 Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Foods North America 


David J. Flavell has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, 
PepsiCo since 2021. Mr. Flavell previously held a number of leadership roles at PepsiCo, including as 
Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer for PepsiCo from 
2019 to 2021, as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel & Managing Attorney from 2018 to 
2019, as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel & General Counsel, International and Global 
Groups from 2017 to 2018, as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel & General Counsel, Latin 
America and Frito-Lay North America from 2016 to 2017, as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, 
Latin America and Frito-Lay North America from 2015 to 2016, and as Senior Vice President, General 
Counsel, Asia, Middle East and Africa from 2011 to 2015. Before joining PepsiCo in 2011, Mr. Flavell 
was general counsel for Danone S.A.’s Asia Pacific and Middle East business. Prior to that, Mr. Flavell 
served as senior legal counsel at Fonterra Co-operative Group Limited and was a partner at Corrs 
Chambers Westgarth. 


Marie T. Gallagher was appointed PepsiCo’s Senior Vice President and Controller in 2011. 
Ms. Gallagher joined PepsiCo in 2005 as Vice President and Assistant Controller. Prior to joining 
PepsiCo, Ms. Gallagher was Assistant Controller at Altria Corporate Services from 1992 to 2005 and, 
prior to that, a senior manager at Coopers & Lybrand. 


Hugh F. Johnston was appointed Vice Chairman, PepsiCo in 2015 and Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer, PepsiCo in 2010. In addition to providing strategic financial leadership for 
PepsiCo, Mr. Johnston’s portfolio has included a variety of responsibilities, including leadership of the 
Company’s information technology function since 2015, the Company’s global e-commerce business from 
2015 to 2019, and the Quaker Foods North America division from 2014 to 2016. He has also held a 
number of leadership roles throughout his PepsiCo career, serving as Executive Vice President, Global 
Operations from 2009 to 2010, President of Pepsi-Cola North America from 2007 to 2009, Executive Vice 
President, Operations from 2006 to 2007, and Senior Vice President, Transformation from 2005 to 2006. 
Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and 
Foods from 2002 through 2005, and as PepsiCo’s Senior Vice President of Mergers and Acquisitions in 
2002. Mr. Johnston joined PepsiCo in 1987 as a Business Planner and held various finance positions until 
1999 when he left to join Merck & Co., Inc. as Vice President, Retail, a position which he held until he 


pee) 


rejoined PepsiCo in 2002. Prior to joining PepsiCo in 1987, Mr. Johnston was with General Electric 
Company in a variety of finance positions. 


Ram Krishnan has served as Chief Executive Officer, International Beverages and Chief Commercial 
Officer of PepsiCo, effective January 2022. Prior to that, Mr. Krishnan served as Executive Vice President 
and Chief Commercial Officer, PepsiCo, from 2019 to 2021, as President and Chief Executive Officer of 
PepsiCo’s Asia Pacific, Australia and New Zealand and China Region from 2018 to 2020, and as 
PepsiCo’s Senior Vice President and Chief Customer Officer for Walmart, leading PepsiCo’s global 
Walmart customer team, from 2016 to 2017. Mr. Krishnan joined PepsiCo in 2006 and held marketing 
roles of increasing responsibility from 2006 to 2016, including as Senior Vice President and Chief 
Marketing Officer, Frito-Lay North America from 2014 to 2016, as Senior Vice President, Marketing, 
Frito-Lay North America from 2012 to 2013 and as Vice President of Global Brands, Frito-Lay North 
America from 2011 to 2012. Prior to PepsiCo, Mr. Krishnan spent six years at General Motors Company 
as a marketing manager for Cadillac. 


Ramon L. Laguarta has served as PepsiCo’s Chief Executive Officer and a director on the Board since 
2018, and assumed the role of Chairman of the Board in 2019. Mr. Laguarta previously served as 
President of PepsiCo from 2017 to 2018. Prior to serving as President, Mr. Laguarta held a variety of 
positions of increasing responsibility in Europe, including as Commercial Vice President of PepsiCo 
Europe from 2006 to 2008, PepsiCo Eastern Europe Region from 2008 to 2012, President, Developing & 
Emerging Markets, PepsiCo Europe from 2012 to 2015, Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Europe in 2015, 
and Chief Executive Officer, Europe Sub-Saharan Africa from 2015 until 2017. From 2002 to 2006, he 
was General Manager for Iberia Snacks and Juices, and from 1999 to 2001, a General Manager for Greece 
Snacks. Prior to joining PepsiCo in 1996 as a marketing vice president for Spain Snacks, Mr. Laguarta 
worked for Chupa Chups, S.A., where he worked in several international assignments in Asia, Europe, the 
Middle East and the United States. Mr. Laguarta has served as a director of Visa Inc. since 2019. 


Silviu Popovici was appointed Chief Executive Officer, Europe, effective 2019. Prior to this role, he 
served as Chief Executive Officer, Europe Sub-Saharan Africa in 2019 and as President, Europe Sub- 
Saharan Africa from 2017 to early 2019. Mr. Popovici previously served as President, Russia, Ukraine and 
CIS (The Commonwealth of Independent States) from 2015 to 2017, and as President, PepsiCo Russia 
from 2013 to 2015. Mr. Popovici joined PepsiCo in 2011 following PepsiCo’s acquisition of Wimm-Bill- 
Dann Foods OJSC (WBD) and served as General Manager, WBD Foods Division from 2011 until 2012. 
Prior to the acquisition, Mr. Popovici held senior leadership roles at WBD, running its dairy business from 
2008 to 2011 and its beverages business from 2006 to 2008. 


Paula Santilli was appointed Chief Executive Officer, Latin America, effective 2019. Previously, she 
served in various leadership positions at PepsiCo Mexico Foods, as President from 2017 to 2019, as Chief 
Operating Officer from 2016 to 2017 and as Vice President and General Manager from 2011 to 2016. 
Prior to joining PepsiCo Mexico Foods, she held a variety of roles, including leadership positions in 
Beverages in Mexico, as well as in Foods and Snacks in the Latin America Southern Cone region 
comprising Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay. Ms. Santilli joined PepsiCo in 2001 following PepsiCo’s 
acquisition of the Quaker Oats Company. At Quaker, she held various roles of increasing responsibility 
from 1992 to 2001, including running the regional Quaker Foods and Gatorade businesses in Argentina, 
Chile and Uruguay. 


Ronald Schellekens was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, 
PepsiCo, in 2018. Prior to that, Mr. Schellekens served as Group HR Director of Vodafone Group 
Services Limited from 2009 to 2018, where he was responsible for the Vodafone Human Resource 
Management function, as well as health and safety, and property and real estate functions. Prior to joining 
Vodafone, Mr. Schellekens was executive vice president, human resources for the global downstream 
division of Royal Dutch Shell Plc. Prior to that, he worked for PepsiCo for nine years from 1994 to 2003 


26 


in various international, senior human resources roles, including assignments in Switzerland, Spain, South 
Africa, the United Kingdom and Poland, where he was most recently responsible for the Europe, Middle 
East & Africa region for PepsiCo Foods International. Prior to that, he served for nine years at AT&T Inc. 
in Human Resources. 


Kirk Tanner was appointed Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Beverages North America, effective 2019. 
Prior to that, Mr. Tanner served as President and Chief Operating Officer, North America Beverages from 
2016 to 2018, Chief Operating Officer, North America Beverages and President, Global Foodservice from 
2015 to 2016, and President, Global Foodservice from 2014 to 2015. Mr. Tanner joined PepsiCo in 1992, 
where he has worked in numerous domestic and international locations and in a variety of roles, including 
Senior Vice President of Frito-Lay North America’s West region from 2009 to 2013, Vice President, Sales 
of PepsiCo U.K. and Ireland from 2008 to 2009, Region Vice President of Frito-Lay North America’s 
Mountain region from 2005 to 2008, Region Vice President of Frito-Lay North America’s Mid-America 
region from 2002 to 2005 and Region Vice President of Frito-Lay North America’s California region from 
2000 to 2002. 


Eugene Willemsen was appointed Chief Executive Officer, Africa, Middle East, South Asia, effective 
2019. Previously he served as Chief Executive Officer, Sub-Saharan Africa in 2019 and as Executive Vice 
President, Global Categories and Franchise Management from 2015 to 2019. Before that, he led the global 
Pepsi-Lipton Joint Venture as President from 2014 to 2015. Prior to such role, Mr. Willemsen served as 
PepsiCo’s Senior Vice President and General Manager, South East Europe from 2011 to 2013, as Senior 
Vice President and General Manager, Commercial, Europe from 2008 to 2011, as Senior Vice President 
and General Manager, Northern Europe from 2006 to 2008, as Vice President, General Manager, Benelux 
from 2000 to 2005 and as Commercial Director, Benelux for the snacks business from 1998 to 2000. Mr. 
Willemsen joined PepsiCo in 1995 as a business development manager. 


Steven Williams was appointed Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Foods North America, effective 2019. 
Prior to this role, Mr. Williams served in leadership positions for Frito-Lay’s U.S. operations, as Senior 
Vice President, Commercial Sales and Chief Commercial Officer from 2017 to 2019 and as General 
Manager and Senior Vice President, East Division from 2016 to 2017. Prior to that, he served as General 
Manager and Senior Vice President, Customer Management for PepsiCo’s global Walmart business from 
2013 to 2016, as Sales Senior Vice President, North American Nutrition from 2011 to 2013 and as Vice 
President, Sales, Central Division from 2009 to 2011. Mr. Williams joined PepsiCo in 2001 as a part of 
PepsiCo’s acquisition of the Quaker Oats Company, which he joined in 1997 and has held leadership 
positions of increasing responsibility in sales and customer management. 


Executive officers are elected by our Board, and their terms of office continue until the next annual 
meeting of the Board or until their successors are elected and have qualified. There are no family 
relationships among our executive officers. 


27 


PART II 


Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer 
Purchases of Equity Securities. 


Stock Trading Symbol — PEP. 


Stock Exchange Listings — The Nasdaq Global Select Market is the principal market for our common 
stock, which is also listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange. 


Shareholders — As of February 2, 2023, there were approximately 98,573 shareholders of record of our 
common stock. 


Dividends — We have paid consecutive quarterly cash dividends since 1965. The declaration and payment 
of future dividends are at the discretion of the Board. Dividends are usually declared in February, May, 
July and November and paid at the end of March, June and September and the beginning of January. On 
February 1, 2023, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $1.15 per share payable March 31, 2023, to 
shareholders of record on March 3, 2023. For the remainder of 2023, the record dates for these dividend 
payments are expected to be June 2, September 1 and December 1, 2023, subject to the approval of the 
Board. On February 9, 2023, we announced a 10.0% increase in our annualized dividend to $5.06 per 
share from $4.60 per share, effective with the dividend expected to be paid in June 2023. We expect to 
retum a total of approximately $7.7 billion to shareholders in 2023, comprising dividends of 
approximately $6.7 billion and share repurchases of approximately $1.0 billion. 


For information on securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see “Item 12. 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.” 


A summary of our common stock repurchases (in millions, except average price per share) during the 
fourth quarter of 2022 is set forth in the table below. 


Issuer Purchases of Common Stock 


Total Number of | Maximum Number (or 


Shares Approximate 
Total Purchased as Dollar Value) of 
Number of Average Part of Publicly Shares that May Yet Be 
Shares Price Paid Announced Plans Purchased Under the 
Period Repurchased™ Per Share or Programs Plans or Programs 
9/3/2022 $ 8,821 
9/4/2022 - 10/1/2022 0.9 $ 168.54 0.9 (153) 
8,668 
10/2/2022 - 10/29/2022 0.2 $ 174.47 0.2 (46) 
8,622 
10/30/2022 - 11/26/2022 0.4 $ 179.94 0.4 (67) 
8,555 
11/27/2022 - 12/31/2022 0.3 $ 182.84 0.3 (55) 
Total 18 $ 174.04 1.8 $ 8,500 


(a) All shares were repurchased in open market transactions pursuant to the $10 billion repurchase program authorized by our 
Board and publicly announced on February 10, 2022, which commenced on February 11, 2022 and will expire on February 
28, 2026. Shares repurchased under this program may be repurchased in open market transactions, in privately negotiated 
transactions, in accelerated stock repurchase transactions or otherwise. 


28 


Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


OUR BUSINESS 
Executive Overview 
Our Operations 
Other Relationships 
Our Business Risks 
OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS 
Results of Operations — Consolidated Review 
Results of Operations — Division Review 
FLNA 
QFNA 
PBNA 
LatAm 
Europe 
AMESA 
APAC 
Non-GAAP Measures 
Items Affecting Comparability 
Our Liquidity and Capital Resources 
Material Changes in Line Items in Our Consolidated Financial Statements 
Return on Invested Capital 
OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 
Revenue Recognition 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
Income Tax Expense and Accruals 
Pension and Retiree Medical Plans 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Note | — Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions 
Note 2 — Our Significant Accounting Policies 
Note 3 — Restructuring and Impairment Charges 
Note 4 — Intangible Assets 
Note 5 — Income Taxes 
Note 6 — Share-Based Compensation 
Note 7 — Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans 
Note 8 — Debt Obligations 
Note 9 — Financial Instruments 
Note 10 — Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo per Common Share 


Note 12 — Leases 
Note 13 — Acquisitions and Divestitures 
Note 14 — Supplemental Financial Information 


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 


GLOSSARY 


29 


Note 11 — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Attributable to PepsiCo 


Our discussion and analysis is intended to help the reader understand our results of operations and 
financial condition and is provided as an addition to, and should be read in connection with, our 
consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Definitions of key terms can be found in 
the glossary. Unless otherwise noted, tabular dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts. 
All per share amounts reflect common stock per share amounts, assume dilution unless otherwise noted, 
and are based on unrounded amounts. Percentage changes are based on unrounded amounts. 


Discussion in this Form 10-K includes results of operations and financial condition for 2022 and 2021 
and year-over-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021. For discussion on results of operations and 
financial condition pertaining to 2020 and year-over-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020, please 
refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in 
Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 25, 2021. 


OUR BUSINESS 
Executive Overview 


PepsiCo is a leading global beverage and convenient food company with a complementary portfolio of 
brands, including Lay’s, Doritos, Cheetos, Gatorade, Pepsi-Cola, Mountain Dew, Quaker and SodaStream. 
Through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third parties, we make, 
market, distribute and sell a wide variety of beverages and convenient foods, serving customers and 
consumers in more than 200 countries and territories. 


As a global company with deep local ties, we faced many of the same challenges in 2022 as our 
consumers, customers, and competitors across the world, including supply chain disruptions; inflationary 
pressures; shifting consumer preferences and behaviors; another year of the COVID-19 pandemic; a 
worsening climate crisis; a highly competitive operating environment; a rapidly changing retail landscape, 
including the growth in e-commerce; continued macroeconomic and political volatility, including the 
deadly conflict in Ukraine; and an evolving regulatory landscape. 


To meet the challenges of today — and those of tomorrow — we are driven by an approach called pept+ 
(PepsiCo Positive). pep+ is a strategic end-to-end transformation of our business, with sustainability and 
human capital at the center of how the company will strive to create growth and value by operating within 
planetary boundaries and inspiring positive change for the planet and people. pep+ guides how we are 
working to transform our business operations, from sourcing ingredients and making and selling products 
in a more sustainable way, to leveraging our more than one billion connections with consumers each day 
to take sustainability mainstream and engage people to make choices that are better for themselves and the 
planet. 


pep+ drives action and progress across three key pillars, bringing together a number of industry-leading 
2030 sustainability goals under a comprehensive framework: 


* Positive Agriculture: We are working to spread regenerative practices to restore the earth across 
seven million acres of land, an area approximately equal to our entire agricultural footprint, 
sustainably source key crops and ingredients, and improve the livelihoods of more people in our 
agricultural supply chain. In 2022, we elevated a number of external strategic partnerships and key 
engagements with this focus, including a partnership with Archer Daniels Midland Company 
(ADM) to scale regenerative agriculture across our shared supply chains, up to 2 million acres; a 
research agreement with MIT to develop a more precise measurement of the greenhouse gas 
impact of regenerative agriculture practices; a strategic engagement with Corteva focused on 
agriculture sustainability, new substrates, and affordability in food corn and vegetable oils; and a 
joint effort with a start-up called N-Drip to scale advantaged micro irrigation technology that can 
provide water-saving, crop-enhancing benefits to farmers around the world. 


30 


* Positive Value Chain: We are working to build a circular and inclusive value chain through 
actions to: achieve net-zero emissions by 2040; become net water positive by 2030; and introduce 
more sustainable packaging into the value chain. Our packaging goals include cutting virgin plastic 
per serving, using more recycled content in our plastic packaging, and scaling our SodaStream 
business globally, potentially eliminating the need for more than 200 billion plastic bottles by 
2030. In 2022, we also announced a new global packaging goal intended to double the percentage 
of all beverage servings delivered through reusable models from 10% to 20% by 2030. 
Additionally, we are making progress on our diversity, equity and inclusion journey around the 
world. And we continue to empower each one of our approximately 315,000 employees to make a 
positive impact in their communities through our global workforce volunteering program, One 
Smile at a Time. 


¢ Positive Choices: We continue working to evolve our portfolio of convenient food & beverage 
products so that they are better for the planet and people, including by incorporating more diverse 
ingredients in both new and existing products, prioritizing chickpeas, plant-based proteins and 
whole grains; expanding our position in the nuts & seeds category; accelerating our reduction of 
added sugars and sodium through the use of science-based targets across our portfolio; and 
offering more products with healthier oils. We are also continuing to scale new business models 
that require little or no single-use packaging, including the iconic SodaStream, already sold in 
more than 45 countries, and the new SodaStream Professional platform, allowing users to 
personalize their choices in reusable containers at home or on the go. 


We believe these priorities will position our Company for long-term sustainable growth. 


See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further information about risks and uncertainties that the Company 
faces. 


Our Operations 


See “Item 1. Business” for information on our divisions and a description of our distribution network, 
ingredients and other supplies, brands and intellectual property rights, seasonality, customers, competition, 
research and development, regulatory matters and human capital. In addition, see Note 1 to our 
consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and geographic areas. 


Other Relationships 


Certain members of our Board also serve on the boards of certain vendors and customers. These Board 
members do not participate in our vendor selection and negotiations nor in our customer negotiations. Our 
transactions with these vendors and customers are in the normal course of business and are consistent with 
terms negotiated with other vendors and customers. In addition, certain of our employees serve on the 
boards of Pepsi Bottling Ventures LLC and other affiliated companies of PepsiCo and do not receive 
incremental compensation for such services. 


Our Business Risks 


Risks Associated with Commodities and Our Supply Chain 


During 2022, we continued to experience significantly higher operating costs, including on transportation, 
labor and commodity (including energy) costs, which we expect to continue in 2023. Many of the 
commodities used in the production and transportation of our products are purchased in the open market. 
The prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of 
fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps 
and futures. A number of external factors, including the deadly conflict in Ukraine, the COVID-19 
pandemic, the inflationary cost environment, adverse weather conditions, supply chain disruptions 


31 


(including raw material shortages) and labor shortages, have impacted and may continue to impact 
transportation, labor and commodity availability and costs. When prices increase, we may or may not pass 
on such increases to our customers without suffering reduced volume, revenue, margins and operating 
results. 


See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on how we manage our 
exposure to commodity prices. 


Risks Associated with Climate Change 


Certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either 
imposed, or are considering imposing, new or increased legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or 
mitigate the potential effects of climate change, including regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and 
potential carbon pricing programs. These new or increased legal or regulatory requirements, along with 
initiatives to meet our sustainability goals, could result in significant increased costs and additional 
investments in facilities and equipment. However, we are unable to predict the scope, nature and timing of 
any new or increased environmental laws and regulations and therefore cannot predict the ultimate impact 
of such laws and regulations on our business or financial results. We continue to monitor existing and 
proposed laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, 
distributed and sold and to consider actions we may take to potentially mitigate the unfavorable impact, if 
any, of such laws or regulations. 


Risks Associated with International Operations 


We are subject to risks in the normal course of business that are inherent to international operations. 
During the periods presented in this report, certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, 
manufactured, distributed or sold, including in certain developing and emerging markets, operated in a 
challenging environment, experiencing unstable economic, political and social conditions, civil unrest, 
natural disasters, debt and credit issues and currency controls or fluctuations. We continue to monitor the 
economic, operating and political environment in these markets closely, including risks of additional 
impairments or write-offs, and to identify actions to potentially mitigate any unfavorable impacts on our 
future results. 


See Notes 1 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of impairment charges 
recognized in the year ended December 31, 2022. 


Risks Associated with the Deadly Conflict in Ukraine 


In addition to the risks associated with international operations discussed above, we continue to face risks 
associated with the deadly conflict in Ukraine. The conflict has continued to result in worldwide 
geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainty, and certain of our operations in Ukraine remain suspended. 
We have suspended sales to our customers of Pepsi-Cola and certain of our other global beverage brands, 
our discretionary capital investments and advertising and promotional activities in Russia, which has 
negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact our business. We continue to offer our other 
products in Russia. Our operations in Russia accounted for 5% and 4% of our consolidated net revenue for 
the year ended December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, respectively. Russia accounted for 4% and 
5% of our consolidated assets, including 9% and 1% of our consolidated cash and cash equivalents, and 
32% and 35% of our accumulated currency translation adjustment loss as of December 31, 2022 and 
December 25, 2021, respectively. Our operations in Ukraine accounted for 0.2% and 0.5% of our 
consolidated net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, respectively. 
Ukraine accounted for 0.1% and 0.3% of our consolidated assets as of December 31, 2022 and December 
25, 2021, respectively. 


32 


The conflict has resulted and could continue to result in volatile commodity markets, supply chain 
disruptions, increased risk of cyber incidents or other disruptions to our information systems, reputational 
risks, heightened risks to employee safety, business disruptions (including labor shortages), significant 
volatility of the Russian ruble, limitations on access to credit markets and other corporate banking 
services, including working capital facilities, reduced availability and increased costs for transportation, 
energy, packaging, raw materials and other input costs, environmental, health and safety risks related to 
securing and maintaining facilities, additional sanctions, export controls and other legislation or 
regulations (including restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from Russia). The ongoing conflict could 
result in the temporary or permanent loss of assets or additional impairment charges. We cannot predict 
how and the extent to which the conflict will continue to affect our employees, customers, operations or 
business partners or our ability to achieve certain of our sustainability goals. The conflict has adversely 
affected and could continue to adversely affect demand for our products and our global business. See 
Notes 1 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Russia-Ukraine conflict 
charges, including impairment charges, recognized in the year ended December 31, 2022. 


The extent of the impact of these tragic events on our business remains uncertain and will continue to 
depend on numerous evolving factors that we are not able to accurately predict, including the duration and 
scope of the conflict, regional instability and ongoing and additional financial and economic sanctions, 
export controls and other legislation imposed by governments. We will continue to monitor and assess the 
situation as circumstances evolve and to identify actions to potentially mitigate any unfavorable impacts 
on our future results. 


Imposition of Taxes and Regulations on our Products 


Certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either 
imposed, or are considering imposing, new or increased taxes or regulations on the manufacture, 
distribution or sale of our products or their packaging, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes 
of, our products or their packaging, commodities used in the production of our products or their packaging 
or the recyclability or recoverability of our packaging. These taxes and regulations vary in scope and form. 
For example, some taxes apply to all beverages, including non-caloric beverages, while others apply only 
to beverages with a caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). Further, some regulations apply to all products using 
certain types of packaging (e.g., plastic), while others are designed to increase the sustainability of 
packaging, encourage waste reduction and increased recycling rates or facilitate the waste management 
process or restrict the sale of products in certain packaging. 


We sell a wide variety of beverages and convenient foods in more than 200 countries and territories and 
the profile of the products we sell, the amount of revenue attributable to such products and the type of 
packaging used vary by jurisdiction. Because of this, we cannot predict the scope or form potential taxes, 
regulations or other limitations on our products or their packaging may take, and therefore cannot predict 
the impact of such taxes, regulations or limitations on our financial results. In addition, taxes, regulations 
and limitations may impact us and our competitors differently. We continue to monitor existing and 
proposed taxes and regulations in the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, 
distributed and sold and to consider actions we may take to potentially mitigate the unfavorable impact, if 
any, of such taxes, regulations or limitations, including advocating alternative measures with respect to the 
imposition, form and scope of any such taxes, regulations or limitations. 


Retail Landscape 


Our industry continues to be affected by disruption of the retail landscape, including the continued growth 
in sales through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, including through subscription 
services, the integration of physical and digital operations among retailers and the international expansion 
of hard discounters. We have seen and expect to continue to see a further shift to e-commerce, online-to- 


33 


offline and other online purchasing by consumers, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We 
continue to monitor changes in the retail landscape and seek to identify actions we may take to build our 
global e-commerce and digital capabilities, such as expanding our direct-to-consumer business, and 
distribute our products effectively through all existing and emerging channels of trade and potentially 
mitigate any unfavorable impacts on our future results. 


See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” “Executive Overview” above and “Market Risks” below for more 
information about these risks and the actions we have taken to address key challenges. 


Risk Management Framework 


The achievement of our strategic and operating objectives involves risks, many of which evolve over time. 
To identify, assess, prioritize, address, manage, monitor and communicate these risks across the 
Company’s operations and foster a corporate culture of integrity and risk awareness, we leverage an 
integrated risk management framework. This framework includes the following: 


* PepsiCo’s Board has oversight responsibility for PepsiCo’s integrated risk management 
framework. One of the Board’s primary responsibilities is overseeing and interacting with senior 
management with respect to key aspects of the Company’s business, including risk assessment 
and risk mitigation of the Company’s top risks. Throughout the year, the Board and relevant 
Committees of the Board receive updates from management with respect to various enterprise risk 
management issues and dedicate a portion of their meetings to reviewing and discussing specific 
risk topics in greater detail, including risks related to cybersecurity, food safety, sustainability, 
human capital management (including diversity, equity and inclusion) and supply chain and 
commodity inflation. The Board receives and provides feedback on regular updates from 
management regarding the Company’s top risks, including updates from members of management 
responsible for overseeing impacted areas (for example, the Global Chief Information Officer and 
Chief Information Security Officer), governance processes associated with managing these risks, 
the status of projects to strengthen the Company’s risk mitigation efforts and recent incidents 
impacting the industry and threat landscape. Given that cybersecurity risks can impact various 
areas of responsibility of the Committees of the Board, the Board believes it is useful and 
effective for the full Board to maintain direct oversight over cybersecurity matters. In evaluating 
top risks, the Board and management consider short-, medium- and long-term potential impacts 
on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, including looking at the 
internal and external environment when evaluating risks, risk amplifiers and emerging trends, and 
considers the risk horizon as part of prioritizing the Company’s risk mitigation efforts. The Board 
receives updates through presentations, memos and other written materials, teleconferences and 
other appropriate means of communication, with numerous opportunities for discussion and 
feedback, and continuously evaluates its approach in addressing top risks as circumstances 
evolve. For example, as part of risk updates to the Board and relevant Committees during 2022, 
the Board or its relevant Committee were provided updates on the impact of disruptive events, 
such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict, COVID-19 and supply chain disruption and commodity 
inflation. The Board also receives periodic updates from external experts and advisers on global 
macroeconomic trends and conditions that may impact the Company’s strategy and financial 
performance, including geopolitical conflicts, economic instability, labor market trends, changing 
consumer behavior, retail disruption and digitalization. 


The Board has tasked designated Committees of the Board with oversight of certain categories of 
risk management, and the Committees report to the Board regularly on these matters. 


° The Audit Committee of the Board reviews and assesses the guidelines and policies 
governing PepsiCo’s risk management and oversight processes, and assists the Board’s 


34 


oversight of financial, compliance and employee safety risks facing PepsiCo. The Audit 
Committee also assists the Board’s oversight of the Company’s compliance with legal and 
regulatory requirements and the Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer, who reports to the 
General Counsel, meets regularly with the Audit Committee, including in executive 
session without management present; 


° The Compensation Committee of the Board reviews PepsiCo’s employee compensation 
policies and practices to assess whether such policies and practices could lead to 
unnecessary risk-taking behavior; 


° The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee assists the Board in its oversight 
of the Company’s governance structure and other corporate governance matters, including 
succession planning; and 


° The Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy Committee of the Board assists the Board 
in its oversight of PepsiCo’s policies, programs and related risks that concern key 
sustainability (including climate change), diversity, equity and inclusion, and public policy 
matters. 


The PepsiCo Risk Committee (PRC) meets regularly to identify, assess, prioritize and address top 
Strategic, financial, operating, compliance, safety, reputational and other risks. The PRC is also 
responsible for reporting progress on our risk mitigation efforts to the Board. The PRC is 
comprised of a cross-functional, geographically diverse, senior management group, including 
PepsiCo’s Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer, General Counsel, Sector Chief Executive Officers and the heads of Corporate Affairs, 
Human Resources, Research & Development, Information Technology, Sustainability, Strategy, 
Transformation, International Beverages, Commercial, Global Operations, Marketing and 
Financial Planning & Analysis; 


Division and key market risk committees, comprised of cross-functional senior management 
teams, meet regularly to identify, assess, prioritize and address division and country-specific 
business risks; 


PepsiCo’s Risk Management Office, which manages the overall risk management process, 
provides ongoing guidance, tools and analytical support to the PRC and the division and key 
country risk committees, identifies and assesses potential risks and facilitates ongoing 
communication between the parties, as well as with PepsiCo’s Board, the Audit Committee of the 
Board and other Committees of the Board; 


PepsiCo’s Internal Audit Department evaluates the ongoing effectiveness of our key internal 
controls through periodic audit and review procedures; and 


PepsiCo’s Compliance & Ethics and Law Departments lead and coordinate our compliance 
policies and practices. 


PepsiCo’s Disclosure Committee, comprised of the General Counsel, Controller and heads of 
Internal Audit, Financial Planning & Analysis and Investor Relations, evaluates information from 
PepsiCo’s integrated risk management framework as part of the Disclosure Committee’s 
monitoring of the integrity and effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and 
procedures. PepsiCo’s risk oversight processes and disclosure controls and procedures are 
designed to appropriately escalate key risks to the Board as well as to analyze potential risks for 
disclosure. 


35 


Market Risks 


We are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in: 
* commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy; 
* foreign exchange rates and currency restrictions; and 
* interest rates. 


In the normal course of business, we manage commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate risks 
through a variety of strategies, including productivity initiatives, global purchasing programs and hedging. 
Ongoing productivity initiatives involve the identification and effective implementation of meaningful 
cost-saving opportunities or efficiencies, including the use of derivatives. Our global purchasing programs 
include fixed-price contracts and purchase orders and pricing agreements. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for 
further discussion of our market risks. 


The fair value of our derivatives fluctuates based on market rates and prices. The sensitivity of our 
derivatives to these market fluctuations is discussed below. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial 
statements for further discussion of these derivatives and our hedging policies. The fair value of our 
indefinite-lived intangible assets is impacted by changes in market conditions, including interest rates and 
inflationary, deflationary and recessionary conditions. See “Our Critical Accounting Policies and 
Estimates” for a discussion of the exposure of our goodwill and other intangible assets and pension and 
retiree medical plan assets and liabilities to risks related to market fluctuations. 


Inflationary, deflationary and recessionary conditions impacting these market risks also impact the 
demand for and pricing of our products. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further discussion. 


Commodity Prices 


Our commodity derivatives had a total notional value of $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $1.6 
billion as of December 25, 2021. At the end of 2022, the potential change in fair value of commodity 
derivative instruments, assuming a 10% decrease in the underlying commodity price, would have 
decreased our net unrealized gains in 2022 by $176 million, which would generally be offset by a 
reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases. 


Foreign Exchange 


Our operations outside of the United States generated 43% of our consolidated net revenue in 2022, with 
Mexico, Russia, Canada, China, the United Kingdom and South Africa, collectively, comprising 
approximately 23% of our consolidated net revenue in 2022. As a result, we are exposed to foreign 
exchange risks in the international markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or 
sold. Additionally, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk from net investments in foreign subsidiaries, 
foreign currency purchases, foreign currency assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business. 
During 2022, unfavorable foreign exchange reduced net revenue growth by 3 percentage points, primarily 
due to declines in the Turkish lira, euro, Egyptian pound, British pound sterling and South African rand, 
partially offset by an appreciation of the Russian ruble. Currency declines against the U.S. dollar which 
are not offset could adversely impact our future financial results. 


In addition, volatile economic, political and social conditions and civil unrest in certain markets in which 
our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, including in Argentina, Brazil, China, Mexico, 
the Middle East, Russia, Turkey and Ukraine, and currency controls or fluctuations in certain of these 
international markets, continue to, and the threat or imposition of new or increased tariffs or sanctions or 
other impositions in or related to these international markets may, result in challenging operating 
environments. 


36 


Our foreign currency derivatives had a total notional value of $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 
$2.8 billion as of December 25, 2021. At the end of 2022, we estimate that an unfavorable 10% change in 
the underlying exchange rates would have decreased our net unrealized gains in 2022 by $298 million, 
which would be significantly offset by an inverse change in the fair value of the underlying exposure. 


The total notional amount of our debt instruments designated as net investment hedges was $2.9 billion as 
of December 31, 2022 and $2.1 billion as of December 25, 2021. 


Interest Rates 


Our interest rate derivatives had a total notional value of $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $2.1 
billion as of December 25, 2021. Assuming year-end 2022 investment levels and variable rate debt, a 1- 
percentage-point increase in interest rates would have decreased our net interest expense in 2022 by $48 
million due to higher cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments levels, as compared with our 
variable rate debt. 


OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS 
Results of Operations — Consolidated Review 
Volume 


Physical or unit volume is one of the key metrics management uses internally to make operating and 
Strategic decisions, including the preparation of our annual operating plan and the evaluation of our 
business performance. We believe volume provides additional information to facilitate the comparison of 
our historical operating performance and underlying trends, and provides additional transparency on how 
we evaluate our business because it measures demand for our products at the consumer level. Beginning in 
2022, unit volume growth adjusts for the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and other structural changes. 
Further, our fiscal 2022 results include an additional week (53™ reporting week). Unit volume growth 
excludes the impact of the 53™ reporting week. 


Beverage volume includes volume of concentrate sold to independent bottlers and volume of finished 
products bearing company-owned or licensed trademarks and allied brand products and joint venture 
trademarks sold by company-owned bottling operations. Beverage volume also includes volume of 
finished products bearing company-owned or licensed trademarks sold by our noncontrolled affiliates. 
Concentrate volume sold to independent bottlers is reported in concentrate shipments and equivalents 
(CSE), whereas finished beverage product volume is reported in bottler case sales (BCS). Both CSE and 
BCS convert all beverage volume to an 8-ounce-case metric. Typically, CSE and BCS are not equal in any 
given period due to seasonality, timing of product launches, product mix, bottler inventory practices and 
other factors. While our net revenue is not entirely based on BCS volume due to the independent bottlers 
in our supply chain, we believe that BCS is a better measure of the consumption of our beverage products. 
PBNA, LatAm, Europe, AMESA and APAC, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, 
make, market, distribute and sell ready-to-drink tea products through a joint venture with Unilever (under 
the Lipton brand name), and PBNA, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, 
markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink coffee products through a joint venture with Starbucks. 


Convenient food volume includes volume sold by us and our noncontrolled affiliates of convenient food 
products bearing company-owned or licensed trademarks. Internationally, we measure convenient food 
product volume in kilograms, while in North America we measure convenient food product volume in 
pounds. FLNA makes, markets, distributes and sells Sabra refrigerated dips and spreads through a joint 
venture with Strauss Group. 


37 


Consolidated Net Revenue and Operating Profit 


2022 2021 Change 
Net revenue $ 86,392 $ 79,474 9% 
Operating profit $ 11,512 $ 11,162 3% 
Operating margin 13.3 % 14.0% (0.7) 


See “Results of Operations — Division Review” for a tabular presentation and discussion of key drivers of 
net revenue. 


Operating profit grew 3% while operating margin declined 0.7 percentage points. Operating profit growth 
was primarily driven by net revenue growth and productivity savings, partially offset by certain operating 
cost increases and a 42-percentage-point impact of higher commodity costs. The loss of net revenue due to 
the Juice Transaction reduced operating profit growth by 3 percentage points and was partially offset by a 
1-percentage-point contribution from the 53™ reporting week. 


Operating profit growth also reflects a 13-percentage-point unfavorable impact of impairment charges 
related to certain indefinite-lived intangible assets due to an increase in the weighted-average cost of 
capital as well as our most current estimates of future financial performance (other impairment charges), a 
12-percentage-point unfavorable impact of the charges associated with the Russia-Ukraine conflict and a 
6-percentage-point unfavorable impact of impairment on intangible assets, investment and property, plant 
and equipment and other charges as a result of management’s decision to reposition or discontinue the 
sale/distribution of certain brands and to sell an investment (brand portfolio impairment charges). These 
impacts were partially offset by a 29-percentage-point contribution from the gain associated with the Juice 
Transaction. 


The operating margin decline primarily reflects the unfavorable impacts of other impairment charges, the 
charges associated with the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the brand portfolio impairment charges, partially 
offset by the gain associated with the Juice Transaction. 


Juice Transaction 


In the first quarter of 2022, we sold our Tropicana, Naked and other select juice brands to PAI Partners, 
while retaining a 39% noncontrolling interest in TBG, operating across North America and Europe. These 
juice businesses delivered approximately $3 billion in net revenue in 2021. In the United States, PepsiCo 
acts as the exclusive distributor for TBG’s portfolio of brands for small-format and foodservice customers 
with chilled DSD. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 


Other Consolidated Results 


2022 2021 Change 
Other pension and retiree medical benefits income $ 132 iS 522 $ (390) 
Net interest expense and other $ (939) $(1,863) $ 924 
Annual tax rate 16.1 % 21.8 % 
Net income attributable to PepsiCo $ 8,910 $ 7,618 17% 
Net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share — diluted $ 6.42 $ 5.49 17 % 


Other pension and retiree medical benefits income decreased $390 million, primarily due to higher 
settlement losses compared to the prior year. 


Net interest expense and other decreased $924 million, reflecting the prior-year charge of $842 million 
related to our cash tender offers, higher interest rates on average cash balances and lower average debt 
balances, partially offset by losses on the market value of investments used to economically hedge a 
portion of our deferred compensation liability and higher interest rates on debt. 


38 


The reported tax rate decreased 5.7 percentage points, primarily reflecting the impact of the Juice 
Transaction and adjustments to reserves for uncertain tax positions as a result of the Internal Revenue 
Service (IRS) audit. 


Results of Operations — Division Review 


See “Our Business Risks,” “Non-GAAP Measures” and “Items Affecting Comparability” for a discussion 
of items to consider when evaluating our results and related information regarding measures not in 
accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). 


In the discussions of net revenue and operating profit below, “effective net pricing” reflects the year-over- 
year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying 
products in different package sizes and in different countries. Additionally, “acquisitions and divestitures” 
reflect mergers and acquisitions activity, as well as divestitures and other structural changes, including 
changes in ownership or control in consolidated subsidiaries and nonconsolidated equity investees. 


Net Revenue and Organic Revenue Growth 


Organic revenue growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. For further information on this measure, see 
“Non-GAAP Measures.” 


2022 
Impact of Impact of 
Reported Organic 
% Change, Foreign Acquisitions 53" % Change, Effective 
GAAP exchange and reporting Non-GAAP Organic net 
Measure translation divestitures week Measure® volume” pricing 
FLNA 19% _— —_— (2) 17% = 17 
QFNA 15% 0.5 — (2) 13 % (3) 16 
PBNA 4% _— 9 (2) 11% 1 10 
LatAm 21% —_— 1 — 21% 5 16 
Europe (2)% 9 5 = 12% (7) 19 
AMESA 6% 12 2 — 20 % 16 
APAC 4% 5) 2 — 11% 6 
Total 9% 3 4 (1) 14% — 14 


(a) Amounts may not sum due to rounding. 

(b) Excludes the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and other structural changes and the 53” reporting week. In certain instances, the impact 
of organic volume growth on net revenue growth differs from the unit volume growth disclosed in the following divisional discussions 
due to the impacts of product mix, nonconsolidated joint venture volume, and, for our franchise-owned beverage businesses, temporary 
timing differences between BCS and CSE. We report net revenue from our franchise-owned beverage businesses based on CSE. The 
volume sold by our nonconsolidated joint ventures has no direct impact on our net revenue. 


39 


Operating Profit/(Loss), Operating Profit/((Loss) Adjusted for Items Affecting Comparability and 
Operating Profit/((Loss) Performance Adjusted for Items Affecting Comparability on a Constant 
Currency Basis 


Operating profit/(loss) adjusted for items affecting comparability and operating profit/(loss) performance 
adjusted for items affecting comparability on a constant currency basis are both non-GAAP financial 
measures. For further information on these measures, see “Non-GAAP Measures” and “Items Affecting 
Comparability.” 


Operating Profit/(Loss) and Operating Profit/(Loss) Adjusted for Items Affecting Comparability 


2022 
Items Affecting Comparability 
Acquisition Gain 
Restructuring and associated 
Reported, Mark-to- and divestiture- with the Impairment Core, 
GAAP market impairment related Juice and other Non-GAAP 
Measure” net impact charges charges Transaction charges Measure” 
FLNA $ 6,135 $ = $ 46 §$ — $ — $ 88 $ 6,269 
QFNA 604 —_— 7 —_— —_— — 611 
PBNA 5,426 — 68 51 (3,029) 160 2,676 
LatAm 1,627 —_— 32 — — 71 1,730 
Europe (1,380) = 109 14 (292) 2932 1,383 
AMESA 666 — 12 3 — 190 871 
APAC 537 = 16 = = la 730 
Corporate unallocated 
expenses (2,103) 62 90 6 _— —_— (1,945) 
Total $ 11,512 $ 62. $ 380 $ 74 $ (3,321) $ 3,618 $ 12,325 
2021 
Items Affecting Comparability” 
Reported, Acquisition and Core, 
GAAP Mark-to-market Restructuring and divestiture-related Non-GAAP 
Measure” net impact impairment charges charges Measure” 
FLNA $ 5,633 $ = 28 §$ 2 $3 5,663 
QFNA 578 = — —_— 578 
PBNA 2,442 —_ 20 11 2,473 
LatAm 1,369 —_ 37 — 1,406 
Europe 1,292 —_— 81 8 1,381 
AMESA 858 — 15 10 883 
APAC 673 = 7 4 684 
Corporate unallocated expenses (1,683) 19 49 (39) (1,654) 
Total $ 11,162 $ 19 $ 237 $ (4) $ 11,414 


(a) See “Items Affecting Comparability.” 

(b) Includes charges taken as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. See Note | to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 

(c) In 2021, income amount primarily relates to gains associated with the contingent consideration in connection with our acquisition of Rockstar Energy 
Beverages (Rockstar). This impact is partially offset by divestiture-related charges associated with the Juice Transaction. See Note 13 to our consolidated 
financial statements for further information. 


40 


Operating Profit/(Loss) Performance and Operating Profit/(Loss) Performance Adjusted for Items 
Affecting Comparability on a Constant Currency Basis 


2022 
Impact of Items Affecting Comparability” Impact of 
Core 
Reported Acquisition Gain Core Constant 
% Mark-to- _ Restructuring and associated % Change, Currency 
Change, market and divestiture- with the Impairment Non- Foreign % Change, 
GAAP net impairment related Juice and other GAAP exchange Non-GAAP 
Measure impact charges charges Transaction charges Measure” translation Measure” 
FLNA 9% — — — — ES 11% _— 11% 
QFNA 45% — 1 — — — 6% — 6% 
PBNA 122 % — D) 2D (124) 7 8% _ 9% 
LatAm 19% = = = = 4.5 23 % = 23 % 
Europe (207)% = 2 05 (23) 228 —% ] 7% 
AMESA (22)% = = qd) = 23 ()% 9 7% 
APAC (20)% = 1 (0.5) = 26 7% 4 11% 
Corporate 
unallocated 
expenses 25% (2.5) (2) (2.5) _— _ 18 % _ 18 % 
Total 3% = 1 1 (29) 31 8% 2 10% 


(a) See “Items Affecting Comparability.” 
(b) Amounts may not sum due to rounding. 


FLNA 


Net revenue grew 19%, primarily driven by effective net pricing and a 2-percentage-point contribution 
from the 53™ reporting week. 


Unit volume decreased 1%, primarily reflecting a double-digit decline in our Sabra joint venture products 
and a low-single-digit decline in variety packs, partially offset by low-single-digit growth in trademark 
Doritos and double-digit growth in trademark Popcorners. 


Operating profit increased 9%, primarily reflecting the effective net pricing and productivity savings. 
These impacts were partially offset by certain operating cost increases, including strategic initiatives, a 17- 
percentage-point impact of higher commodity costs, primarily cooking oil, potatoes and seasoning, and 
higher advertising and marketing expenses. Additionally, impairment charges associated with a baked fruit 
convenient food brand reduced operating profit growth by 1.5 percentage points (other impairment 
charges). The 53™ reporting week contributed 2 percentage points to operating profit growth. 


QFNA 


Net revenue grew 15%, primarily driven by effective net pricing and a 2-percentage-point contribution 
from the 53™ reporting week, partially offset by a decrease in organic volume. 


Unit volume declined 3%, primarily reflecting mid-single-digit declines in oatmeal and ready-to-eat 
cereals and a high-single-digit decline in pancake syrups and mixes, partially offset by mid-single-digit 
growth in rice/pasta sides and low-single-digit growth in bars. 


Operating profit grew 4.5%, primarily reflecting the effective net pricing and productivity savings. These 
impacts were partially offset by a 37-percentage-point impact of higher commodity costs, primarily grains 
and packaging materials, certain operating cost increases, including incremental transportation costs, the 
decrease in organic volume and higher advertising and marketing expenses. The 53™ reporting week 
contributed 2 percentage points to operating profit growth. 


41 


PBNA 


Net revenue increased 4%, primarily driven by effective net pricing and an increase in organic volume. 
The 53™ reporting week contributed 2 percentage points to net revenue growth offset by a 9-percentage- 
point unfavorable impact of lower net revenue due to the Juice Transaction. 


Unit volume grew slightly, driven by a 1% increase in our NCB volume, offset by a 1% decrease in CSD 
volume. The NCB volume increase primarily reflected a mid-single-digit increase in Gatorade sports 
drinks, partially offset by a double-digit decrease in our energy portfolio. 


Operating profit increased 122%, primarily reflecting a 124-percentage-point impact of the gain of $3.0 
billion associated with the Juice Transaction, partially offset by a 2-percentage-point impact of related 
transaction costs. Operating profit growth was also driven by the net revenue growth and productivity 
savings, partially offset by certain operating cost increases, including incremental transportation and 
information technology costs, and a 42-percentage-point impact of higher commodity costs, primarily 
aluminum and resin. A current-year gain associated with the sale of an asset and the 53" reporting week 
contributed 6 percentage points and 2 percentage points, respectively, to operating profit growth. 
Additionally, operating profit growth was reduced by a 15-percentage-point impact of the lower net 
revenue due to the Juice Transaction. 


As a result of our decision to terminate the agreement with Vital Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to distribute Bang 
energy drinks, we recorded impairment and other related charges which reduced operating profit growth 
by 7 percentage points (brand portfolio impairment charges). 


LatAm 
Net revenue increased 21%, primarily reflecting effective net pricing and organic volume growth. 


Convenient foods unit volume grew 3.5%, primarily reflecting mid-single-digit growth in Mexico, 
partially offset by a low-single-digit decline in Brazil. 


Beverage unit volume grew 6%, primarily reflecting double-digit growth in Argentina. Additionally, 
Brazil, Guatemala, Chile and Mexico each experienced mid-single-digit growth. 


Operating profit increased 19%, primarily reflecting the net revenue growth, productivity savings and a 3- 
percentage-point favorable impact of lower charges taken as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These 
impacts were partially offset by certain operating cost increases, a 41-percentage-point impact of higher 
commodity costs, primarily cooking oil, packaging materials and grains, and higher advertising and 
marketing expenses. Additionally, impairment and other charges associated with the sale of certain non- 
strategic brands reduced operating profit growth by 4.5 percentage points (brand portfolio impairment 
charges). 


Europe 


Net revenue decreased 2%, reflecting a 9-percentage-point impact of unfavorable foreign exchange, an 
organic volume decline and a 4.5-percentage-point unfavorable impact of the Juice Transaction, partially 
offset by effective net pricing. 


Convenient foods unit volume declined 4%, primarily reflecting double-digit declines in Russia and 
Ukraine and a mid-single-digit decline in Poland, partially offset by low-single-digit growth in the United 
Kingdom and France and mid-single-digit growth in Turkey. Additionally, the Netherlands experienced a 
low-single-digit decline. 


Beverage unit volume declined 7%, primarily reflecting double-digit declines in Russia, Ukraine and 
Germany, partially offset by low-single-digit growth in France. Additionally, the United Kingdom 
experienced a low-single-digit decline and Turkey experienced a mid-single-digit decline. 


42 


Operating profit decreased 207%, primarily reflecting a 110-percentage-point unfavorable impact of 
charges associated with the Russia-Ukraine conflict, a 98-percentage-point unfavorable impact of 
impairment charges related to the SodaStream brand (other impairment charges) and a 20-percentage- 
point unfavorable impact primarily related to the impairment of intangible assets due to the 
discontinuation or repositioning of certain juice and dairy brands in Russia (brand portfolio impairment 
charges), partially offset by a 23-percentage-point favorable impact of the gain associated with the Juice 
Transaction. Operating profit performance was also negatively impacted by a 91-percentage-point impact 
of higher commodity costs, primarily packaging materials, raw milk and potatoes, certain operating cost 
increases, the organic volume decline, a 4-percentage-point impact of less favorable settlements of 
promotional spending accruals compared to the prior year and a 4-percentage-point impact of payments to 
employees for a change in pension benefits. These impacts were partially offset by the effective net 
pricing, productivity savings and lower advertising and marketing expenses. Unfavorable foreign 
exchange negatively impacted operating profit performance by 7 percentage points. 


AMESA 


Net revenue increased 6%, primarily reflecting effective net pricing and organic volume growth, partially 
offset by a 3-percentage-point unfavorable impact of an extra month of net revenue in 2021 as we aligned 
Pioneer Food Group Ltd.’s (Pioneer Foods) reporting calendar with that of our AMESA division. 
Unfavorable foreign exchange reduced net revenue growth by 12 percentage points. 


Convenient foods unit volume grew 2%, primarily reflecting double-digit growth in the Middle East and 
Pakistan and high-single-digit growth in India, partially offset by a low-single-digit decline in South 
Africa. 


Beverage unit volume grew 14%, primarily reflecting double-digit growth in India. Additionally, the 
Middle East experienced high-single-digit growth, Nigeria experienced low-single-digit growth and 
Pakistan experienced double-digit growth. 


Operating profit decreased 22%, primarily reflecting a 19-percentage-point impact of impairment and 
other charges associated with our decision to sell or discontinue certain non-strategic brands and an 
investment (brand portfolio impairment charges) and a 4-percentage-point impact of impairment charges 
primarily related to certain juice brands from the Pioneer Foods acquisition (other impairment charges). 
Operating profit performance was also negatively impacted by a 74-percentage-point impact of higher 
commodity costs, primarily packaging materials, grains and cooking oil, certain operating cost increases 
and higher advertising and marketing expenses, partially offset by the net revenue growth and productivity 
savings. Unfavorable foreign exchange negatively impacted operating profit performance by 9 percentage 
points. 


APAC 


Net revenue increased 4%, primarily reflecting effective net pricing and organic volume growth, partially 
offset by a 2-percentage-point unfavorable impact of an extra month of net revenue in 2021 as we aligned 
Hangzhou Haomusi Food Co., Ltd.’s (Be & Cheery) reporting calendar with that of our APAC division. 
Unfavorable foreign exchange reduced net revenue growth by 5 percentage points. 


Convenient foods unit volume grew 3%, primarily reflecting low-single-digit growth in China and 
Australia and mid-single-digit growth in Thailand, partially offset by a low-single-digit decline in Taiwan. 


Beverage unit volume grew 8%, primarily reflecting double-digit growth in Vietnam. Additionally, China 
experienced mid-single-digit growth, Thailand experienced low-single-digit growth and the Philippines 
experienced high-single-digit growth. 


Operating profit decreased 20%, primarily reflecting a 25-percentage-point impact of impairment charges 
related to the Be & Cheery brand (other impairment charges). Operating profit performance was also 


43 


negatively impacted by a 25-percentage-point impact of higher commodity costs, primarily cooking oil 
and potatoes, certain operating cost increases and higher advertising and marketing expenses, partially 
offset by the net revenue growth and productivity savings. Additionally, prior-year impairment charges 
associated with an equity method investment positively contributed 3 percentage points to operating profit 
performance. Unfavorable foreign exchange negatively impacted operating profit performance by 4 
percentage points. 


Non-GAAP Measures 


Certain financial measures contained in this Form 10-K adjust for the impact of specified items and are 
not in accordance with GAAP. We use non-GAAP financial measures internally to make operating and 
strategic decisions, including the preparation of our annual operating plan, evaluation of our overall 
business performance and as a factor in determining compensation for certain employees. We believe 
presenting non-GAAP financial measures in this Form 10-K provides additional information to facilitate 
comparison of our historical operating results and trends in our underlying operating results and provides 
additional transparency on how we evaluate our business. We also believe presenting these measures in 
this Form 10-K allows investors to view our performance using the same measures that we use in 
evaluating our financial and business performance and trends. 


We consider quantitative and qualitative factors in assessing whether to adjust for the impact of items that 
may be significant or that could affect an understanding of our ongoing financial and business 
performance or trends. Examples of items for which we may make adjustments include: amounts related 
to mark-to-market gains or losses (non-cash); charges related to restructuring plans; charges associated 
with mergers, acquisitions, divestitures and other structural changes; gains associated with divestitures; 
asset impairment charges (non-cash); pension and retiree medical-related amounts (including all 
settlement and curtailment gains and losses); charges or adjustments related to the enactment of new laws, 
rules or regulations, such as tax law changes; amounts related to the resolution of tax positions; tax 
benefits related to reorganizations of our operations; debt redemptions, cash tender or exchange offers; 
and remeasurements of net monetary assets. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2021, certain immaterial pension 
and retiree medical-related settlement and curtailment gains and losses were not considered items 
affecting comparability. Pension and retiree medical-related service cost, interest cost, expected return on 
plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs continue to be reflected in our core results. See below and 
“Items Affecting Comparability” for a description of adjustments to our GAAP financial measures in this 
Form 10-K. 


Non-GAAP information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered 
in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In 
addition, our non-GAAP financial measures may not be the same as or comparable to similar non-GAAP 
measures presented by other companies. 


The following non-GAAP financial measures contained in this Form 10-K are discussed below: 


Cost of sales, gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses, gain associated with the Juice 
Transaction, impairment of intangible assets, other pension and retiree medical benefits income, net 
interest expense and other, provision for income taxes, net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
and net income attributable to PepsiCo, each adjusted for items affecting comparability, operating profit 
and net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share — diluted, each adjusted for items affecting 
comparability, and the corresponding constant currency growth rates 


These measures exclude the net impact of mark-to-market gains and losses on centrally managed 
commodity derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, restructuring and impairment charges 
related to our 2019 Multi-Year Productivity Plan (2019 Productivity Plan), charges associated with our 
acquisitions and divestitures, the gain associated with the Juice Transaction, impairment and other charges 


44 


comprised of Russia-Ukraine conflict charges, brand portfolio impairment charges and other impairment 
charges, the impact of settlement and curtailment gains and losses related to pension and retiree medical 
plans, a charge related to cash tender offers, tax benefit related to the IRS audit and tax expense related to 
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJ Act) (see “Items Affecting Comparability” for a detailed description of 
each of these items). We also evaluate performance on operating profit and net income attributable to 
PepsiCo per common share - diluted, each adjusted for items affecting comparability, on a constant 
currency basis, which measure our financial results assuming constant foreign currency exchange rates 
used for translation based on the rates in effect for the comparable prior-year period. In order to compute 
our constant currency results, we multiply or divide, as appropriate, our current-year U.S. dollar results by 
the current-year average foreign exchange rates and then multiply or divide, as appropriate, those amounts 
by the prior-year average foreign exchange rates. We believe these measures provide useful information in 
evaluating the results of our business because they exclude items that we believe are not indicative of our 
ongoing performance or that we believe impact comparability with the prior year. 


Organic revenue growth 


We define organic revenue growth as a measure that adjusts for the impacts of foreign exchange 
translation, acquisitions, divestitures and other structural changes, and every five or six years, the impact 
of the 53" reporting week, including in our 2022 financial results. Adjusting for acquisitions and 
divestitures reflects mergers and acquisitions activity, including the impact in 2021 of an extra month of 
net revenue for our acquisitions of Pioneer Foods in our AMESA division and Be & Cheery in our APAC 
division as we aligned the reporting calendars of these acquisitions with those of our divisions, as well as 
divestitures and other structural changes, including changes in ownership or control in consolidated 
subsidiaries and nonconsolidated equity investees. We believe organic revenue growth provides useful 
information in evaluating the results of our business because it excludes items that we believe are not 
indicative of ongoing performance or that we believe impact comparability with the prior year. 


See “Net Revenue and Organic Revenue Growth” in “Results of Operations — Division Review’? for 
further information. 


Free cash flow 


We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital spending, plus sales of 
property, plant and equipment. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives 
and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As 
such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending when evaluating our cash from 
operating activities. Free cash flow is used by us primarily for acquisitions and financing activities, 
including debt repayments, dividends and share repurchases. Free cash flow is not a measure of cash 
available for discretionary expenditures since we have certain non-discretionary obligations such as debt 
service that are not deducted from the measure. 


See “Free Cash Flow” in “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further information. 
Return on invested capital (ROIC) and net ROIC, excluding items affecting comparability 


We define ROIC as net income attributable to PepsiCo plus interest expense after-tax divided by the sum 
of quarterly average debt obligations and quarterly average common shareholders’ equity. Although ROIC 
is a common financial metric, numerous methods exist for calculating ROIC. Accordingly, the method 
used by management to calculate ROIC may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate 
their ROIC. 


We believe this metric serves as a measure of how well we use our capital to generate returns. In addition, 
we use net ROIC, excluding items affecting comparability, to compare our performance over various 
reporting periods on a consistent basis because it removes from our operating results the impact of items 
that we believe are not indicative of our ongoing performance and reflects how management evaluates our 


45 


operating results and trends. We define net ROIC, excluding items affecting comparability, as ROIC, 
adjusted for quarterly average cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, after-tax interest income 
and items affecting comparability. We believe the calculation of ROIC and net ROIC, excluding items 
affecting comparability, provides useful information to investors and is an additional relevant comparison 
of our performance to consider when evaluating our capital allocation efficiency. 


See “Return on Invested Capital” in “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further information. 


Items Affecting Comparability 


Our reported financial results in this Form 10-K are impacted by the following items in each of the 


following years: 


Reported, GAAP 
Measure $40,576 


Items Affecting Comparability 


Mark-to-market 
net impact (52) 


Restructuring and 
impairment 
charges (33) 
Acquisition and 
divestiture- 
related charges — 


Gain associated 
with the Juice 
Transaction — 


Impairment and 

other charges (201) 
Pension and retiree 

medical-related 

impact —< 
Tax benefit related 

to the IRS audit = 
Tax expense 


related to the 
TCI Act _ 


Core, Non-GAAP 
Measure $40,290 


$45,816 


52 


33 


201 


2022 


Impairment 


of 


intangible 
assets 


Other 
pension 
and 
retiree 
medical 


Operating benefits 


profit income 


3,166 $ 11,512 $ 132 


(3,166) 


62 = 
380 31 
74 6 
(3,321) = 
3,618 = 


307 


Gain 
Selling, associated 
general and with the 
administrative Juice 
expenses Transaction 
$ 34,459 $ (3,321) $ 
(10) = 
(347) = 
(74) = 
= 3,321 
(251) = 
$ 33,777_ $ ee) 


46 


12,325 $ 476 


Provision 


Net income 


for attributable to 
income noncontrolling 


taxes 


$ 1,727 $ 


14 


77 


14 


(433) 


Net income 
attributable 


to PepsiCo 


$ 8,910 


48 


333 


66 


(2,888) 


2,947 


2021 


Other 
pension 
Selling, and retiree Net Provision Net income 
general and medical interest for attributable to Net income 
Cost of | Gross administrative Operating _ benefits expense income _noncontrolling _ attributable to 
sales profit expenses profit income and other __ taxes” interests PepsiCo 
Reported, GAAP Measure $37,075 $42,399 $ 31,237 $ 11,162 $ 522 $ (1,863) $ 2,142 §$ 61 $ 7,618 
Items Affecting Comparability 
Mark-to-market net impact (39) 39 20 19 = = 5 = 14 
Restructuring and 
impairment charges (29) 29 (208) 237 10 _— 41 1 205 
Acquisition and divestiture- 
related charges (1) 1 5 (4) _ _— 23 — (27) 
Pension and retiree medical- 
related impact — — — — 12 — 1 = 11 
Charge related to cash tender 
offers — — 842 165 = 677 
Tax expense related to the 
TCJ Act = = (190) _ 190 
Core, Non-GAAP Measure $37,006 $42,468 $ 31,054 $ 11,414 $ 544 $ (1,021) $ 2,187 $ 62. $ 8,688 


(a) Provision for income taxes is the expected tax charge/benefit on the underlying item based on the tax laws and income tax rates applicable to the 
underlying item in its corresponding tax jurisdiction. 


2022 2021 Change 

Net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share — diluted, GAAP measure $ 6.42 $ 5.49 17% 
Mark-to-market net impact 0.03 0.01 
Restructuring and impairment charges 0.24 0.15 
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges 0.05 (0.02) 
Gain associated with the Juice Transaction (2.08) _ 
Impairment and other charges 2.12 = 
Pension and retiree medical-related impact 0.17 0.01 
Charge related to cash tender offers — 0.49 
Tax benefit related to the IRS audit (0.23) = 
Tax expense related to the TCJ Act 0.06 0.14 
Core net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share — diluted, non-GAAP 

measure $ 6.79  $ 6.26 9% 
Impact of foreign exchange translation 2 
Growth in core net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share — diluted, on a 

constant currency basis, non-GAAP measure __ us 


(a) Does not sum due to rounding. 


Mark-to-Market Net Impact 


We centrally manage commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. These commodity derivatives 
include agricultural products, energy and metals. Commodity derivatives that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting treatment are marked to market each period with the resulting gains and losses recorded in 
corporate unallocated expenses as either cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses, 
depending on the underlying commodity. These gains and losses are subsequently reflected in division 
results when the divisions recognize the cost of the underlying commodity in operating profit. Therefore, 
the divisions realize the economic effects of the derivative without experiencing any resulting mark-to- 
market volatility, which remains in corporate unallocated expenses. 


Restructuring and Impairment Charges 
2019 Multi-Year Productivity Plan 


The 2019 Productivity Plan, publicly announced on February 15, 2019, will leverage new technology and 
business models to further simplify, harmonize and automate processes; re-engineer our go-to-market and 
information systems, including deploying the right automation for each market; and simplify our 
organization and optimize our manufacturing and supply chain footprint. To build on the successful 


47 


implementation of the 2019 Productivity Plan, in the fourth quarter of 2022, we expanded and extended 
the plan through the end of 2028 to take advantage of additional opportunities within the initiatives 
described above. As a result, we expect to incur pre-tax charges of approximately $3.65 billion, including 
cash expenditures of approximately $2.9 billion. Plan to date through December 31, 2022, we have 
incurred pre-tax charges of $1.5 billion, including cash expenditures of $1.0 billion. In our 2023 financial 
results, we expect to incur pre-tax charges and cash expenditures of approximately $600 million each. 
These charges will be funded primarily through cash from operations. We expect to incur the majority of 
the remaining pre-tax charges and cash expenditures in our 2023 through 2024 financial results, with the 
balance to be incurred through 2028. Charges include severance and other employee costs, asset 
impairments and other costs. 


See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for further information related to our 2019 
Productivity Plan. We regularly evaluate productivity initiatives beyond the productivity plan and other 
initiatives discussed above and in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. 


Acquisition and Divestiture-Related Charges 


Acquisition and divestiture-related charges primarily include fair value adjustments to the acquired 
inventory included in the acquisition-date balance sheets (recorded in cost of sales), merger and 
integration charges and costs associated with divestitures (recorded in selling, general and administrative 
expenses). Merger and integration charges include liabilities to support socioeconomic programs in South 
Africa, gains associated with contingent consideration, employee-related costs, contract termination costs, 
closing costs and other integration costs. Divestiture-related charges reflect transaction expenses, 
including consulting, advisory and other professional fees. 


See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 


Gain Associated with the Juice Transaction 
We recognized a gain associated with the Juice Transaction in our PBNA and Europe divisions. 


See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 


Impairment and Other Charges 


We recognized Russia-Ukraine conflict charges, brand portfolio impairment charges and other impairment 
charges as described below. 


Russia-Ukraine Conflict Charges 


In connection with the deadly conflict in Ukraine, we recognized charges related to indefinite-lived 
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment impairment, allowance for expected credit losses, 
inventory write-downs and other costs. 


See Notes | and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 


Brand Portfolio Impairment Charges 


We recognized intangible asset, investment and property, plant and equipment impairments and other 
charges as a result of management’s decision to reposition or discontinue the sale/distribution of certain 
brands and to sell an investment. 


See Notes | and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 


48 


Other Impairment Charges 


We recognized impairment charges related to certain of our indefinite-lived intangible assets which reflect 
an increase in the weighted-average cost of capital as well as our most current estimates of future financial 
performance. 


See Notes | and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 


Pension and Retiree Medical-Related Impact 


Pension and retiree medical-related impact primarily includes settlement charges related to lump sum 
distributions exceeding the total of annual service and interest costs, as well as curtailment gains. 


See Notes 7 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 


Charge Related to Cash Tender Offers 


As a result of the cash tender offers for some of our long-term debt, we recorded a charge primarily 
representing the tender price paid over the carrying value of the tendered notes and loss on treasury rate 
locks used to mitigate the interest rate risk on the cash tender offers. 


See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 


Tax Benefit Related to the IRS Audit 


We recognized a non-cash tax benefit resulting from our agreement with the IRS to settle one of the issues 
assessed in the 2014 through 2016 tax audit. The agreement covers tax years 2014 through 2019. 


See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 


Tax Expense Related to the TCJ Act 


Tax expense related to the TCJ Act reflects adjustments to the mandatory transition tax liability under the 
TCJ Act. 


See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 
Our Liquidity and Capital Resources 


We believe that our cash generating capability and financial condition, together with our revolving credit 
facilities, working capital lines and other available methods of debt financing, such as commercial paper 
borrowings and long-term debt financing, will be adequate to meet our operating, investing and financing 
needs, including with respect to our net capital spending plans. Our primary sources of liquidity include 
cash from operations, pre-tax cash proceeds of approximately $3.5 billion from the Juice Transaction, 
proceeds obtained from issuances of commercial paper and long-term debt, and cash and cash equivalents. 
These sources of cash are available to fund cash outflows that have both a short- and long-term 
component, including debt repayments and related interest payments; payments for acquisitions; operating 
leases; purchase, marketing, and other contractual commitments, including capital expenditures and the 
transition tax liability under the TCJ Act. In addition, these sources of cash fund other cash outflows 
including anticipated dividend payments and share repurchases. We do not have guarantees or off-balance 
sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, that we believe could have a material 
impact on our liquidity. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors,’ “Our Business Risks” and Note 8 to our 
consolidated financial statements for further information. 


49 


Our sources and uses of cash were not materially adversely impacted by the Russia-Ukraine conflict and, 
to date, we have not identified any material liquidity deficiencies as a result of the conflict. Based on the 
information currently available to us, we do not expect the impact of the Russia-Ukraine conflict to have a 
material impact on our future liquidity. We will continue to monitor and assess the impact the Russia- 
Ukraine conflict may have on our business and financial results. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” “Our 
Business Risks” and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for further information related to the 
impact of the Russia-Ukraine conflict on our business and financial results. 


As of December 31, 2022, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in our consolidated 
subsidiaries subject to currency controls or currency exchange restrictions were not material. 


The TCJ Act imposed a one-time mandatory transition tax on undistributed international earnings. As of 
December 31, 2022, our mandatory transition tax liability was $2.6 billion, which must be paid through 
2026 under the provisions of the TCJ Act; we currently expect to pay approximately $309 million of this 
liability in 2023. Any additional guidance issued by the IRS may impact our recorded amounts for this 
transition tax liability. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the 
TCJ Act. 


As part of our evolving market practices, we work with our suppliers to optimize our terms and 
conditions, which include the extension of payment terms. Our current payment terms with a majority of 
our suppliers generally range from 60 to 90 days, which we deem to be commercially reasonable. We will 
continue to monitor economic conditions and market practice working with our suppliers to adjust as 
necessary. We also maintain voluntary supply chain finance agreements with several participating global 
financial institutions. Under these agreements, our suppliers, at their sole discretion, may elect to sell their 
accounts receivable with PepsiCo to these participating global financial institutions. Supplier participation 
in these financing arrangements is voluntary. Our suppliers negotiate their financing agreements directly 
with the respective global financial institutions and we are not a party to these agreements. These 
financing arrangements allow participating suppliers to leverage PepsiCo’s creditworthiness in 
establishing credit spreads and associated costs, which generally provides our suppliers with more 
favorable terms than they would be able to secure on their own. Neither PepsiCo nor any of its 
subsidiaries provide any guarantees to any third party in connection with these financing arrangements. 
We have no economic interest in our suppliers’ decision to participate in these agreements. Our 
obligations to our suppliers, including amounts due and scheduled payment terms, are not impacted. All 
outstanding amounts related to suppliers participating in such financing arrangements are recorded within 
accounts payable and other current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. We were informed by the 
participating financial institutions that as of both December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, $1.5 billion 
of our accounts payable to suppliers who participate in these financing arrangements are outstanding. 
These supply chain finance arrangements did not have a material impact on our liquidity or capital 
resources in the periods presented and we do not expect such arrangements to have a material impact on 
our liquidity or capital resources for the foreseeable future. 


Furthermore, our cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted by seasonality. Working 
capital needs are impacted by weekly sales, which are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal 
and holiday-related patterns and generally lowest in the first quarter. On a continuing basis, we consider 
various transactions to increase shareholder value and enhance our business results, including acquisitions, 
divestitures, joint ventures, dividends, share repurchases, productivity and other efficiency initiatives and 
other structural changes. These transactions may result in future cash proceeds or payments. 


50 


The table below summarizes our cash activity: 


2022 2021 
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 10,811 $ 11,616 
Net cash used for investing activities $ (2,430) $ (3,269) 
Net cash used for financing activities $ (8,523) $(10,780) 


Operating Activities 


In 2022, net cash provided by operating activities was $10.8 billion, compared to $11.6 billion in the prior 
year. The decrease in operating cash flow primarily reflects unfavorable working capital comparisons and 
higher net cash tax payments, partially offset by favorable operating profit performance and lower pre-tax 
pension and retiree medical plan contributions in the current year. 


Investing Activities 


In 2022, net cash used for investing activities was $2.4 billion, primarily reflecting net capital spending of 
$5.0 billion and our investment in Celsius Holdings, Inc. (Celsius) convertible preferred stock and 
agreement to distribute Celsius energy drinks of $0.8 billion, partially offset by proceeds associated with 
the Juice Transaction of $3.5 billion. 


In 2021, net cash used for investing activities was $3.3 billion, primarily reflecting net capital spending of 
$4.5 billion, partially offset by maturities of short-term investments with maturities greater than three 
months of $1.1 billion. 


See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of capital spending by division; 
see Notes 4 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our agreement with 
and investment in Celsius; and see Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion 
of our acquisitions. 


We regularly review our plans with respect to net capital spending, including in light of the ongoing 
uncertainty caused by the Russia-Ukraine conflict on our business, and believe that we have sufficient 
liquidity to meet our net capital spending needs. 


Financing Activities 


In 2022, net cash used for financing activities was $8.5 billion, primarily reflecting the return of operating 
cash flow to our shareholders through dividend payments of $6.2 billion and share repurchases of $1.5 
billion, payments of long-term debt borrowings of $2.5 billion and debt redemptions/cash tender offers of 
$1.7 billion, partially offset by proceeds from issuances of long-term debt of $3.4 billion. 


In 2021, net cash used for financing activities was $10.8 billion, primarily reflecting the return of 
operating cash flow to our shareholders largely through dividend payments of $5.8 billion, cash tender 
offers/debt redemption of $4.8 billion, payments of long-term debt borrowings of $3.5 billion and 
payments of acquisition-related contingent consideration of $0.8 billion, partially offset by proceeds from 
issuances of long-term debt of $4.1 billion. 


See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of debt obligations. 


We annually review our capital structure with our Board, including our dividend policy and share 
repurchase activity. On February 10, 2022, we announced a share repurchase program providing for the 
repurchase of up to $10.0 billion of PepsiCo common stock which commenced on February 11, 2022 and 
will expire on February 28, 2026. In addition, on February 9, 2023, we announced a 10.0% increase in our 
annualized dividend to $5.06 per share from $4.60 per share, effective with the dividend expected to be 
paid in June 2023. We expect to return a total of approximately $7.7 billion to shareholders in 2023, 
comprising dividends of approximately $6.7 billion and share repurchases of approximately $1.0 billion. 


51 


Free Cash Flow 


The table below reconciles net cash provided by operating activities, as reflected on our cash flow 
statement, to our free cash flow. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. For further information 
on free cash flow, see “Non-GAAP Measures.” 


2022 2021 Change 
Net cash provided by operating activities, GAAP measure $ 10,811 $ 11,616 (1)% 
Capital spending (5,207) (4,625) 
Sales of property, plant and equipment 251 166 
Free cash flow, non-GAAP measure $ 5,855 §$ 7,157 (18)% 


We use free cash flow primarily for acquisitions and financing activities, including debt repayments, 
dividends and share repurchases. We expect to continue to return free cash flow to our shareholders 
primarily through dividends and share repurchases while maintaining Tier 1 commercial paper access, 
which we believe will facilitate appropriate financial flexibility and ready access to global capital and 
credit markets at favorable interest rates. However, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Our Business Risks” 
for certain factors that may impact our credit ratings or our operating cash flows. 


Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below 
investment grade, whether or not as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our control, could 
increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms 
commercially acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit 
ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we 
have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of 
debt financing. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” “Our Business Risks” and Note 8 to our consolidated 
financial statements for further information. 


Material Changes in Line Items in Our Consolidated Financial Statements 


Material changes in line items in our consolidated statement of income are discussed in “Results of 
Operations — Consolidated Review,” “Results of Operations — Division Review” and “Items Affecting 
Comparability.” 


Material changes in line items in our consolidated statement of cash flows are discussed in “Our Liquidity 
and Capital Resources.” 


52 


Material changes in line items in our consolidated balance sheet are discussed below: 


2022 Change 
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents ® $ (0.6) 
Increase in accounts and notes receivable, net “ $ 1:5 
Increase in inventories $ 0.9 
Decrease in assets held for sale © $ (1.8) 
Increase in property, plant and equipment, net $ 1.9 
Decrease in other indefinite-lived intangible assets ‘ $ (2.8) 
Increase in investments in noncontrolled affiliates $ 0.7 
Increase in other assets “ $ 0.8 
Decrease in short-term debt obligations ” $ (0.9) 
Increase in accounts payable and other current liabilities “ $ 2.2 
Decrease in liabilities held for sale © $ (0.8) 
Decrease in deferred income taxes $ (0.7) 
Decrease in other liabilities $ (0.8) 


(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 


(g) 
(h) 
(i) 
(i) 
(k) 
(I) 
(m) 


In billions. 

See consolidated statement of cash flows. 

Primarily reflects strong revenue performance across much of our portfolio in 2022. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements 
for further information. 

Primarily reflects higher commodity costs in 2022. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 

Reflects closing of the Juice Transaction. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 

Primarily reflects capital spending, partially offset by depreciation. See Notes 1 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements for 
further information. 

Primarily reflects impairments. See Notes | and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 

Primarily reflects closing of the Juice Transaction. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 
Primarily reflects our investment in Celsius convertible preferred stock. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for further 
information. 

Primarily reflects debt payments and redemptions, partially offset by debt maturing within one year. See Note 8 to our consolidated 
financial statements for further information. 

Primarily reflects higher commodity costs and capital expenditures in 2022. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for 
further information. 

Primarily reflects certain impairments and the capitalization of research and development expenses under the TCJ Act, partially offset by 
the deferred tax impacts of our Juice Transaction. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 

Primarily reflects changes related to pension and retiree medical plans. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for further 
information. 


Material changes in equity line items are discussed in our consolidated statement of equity and notes 7 and 
11 to our consolidated financial statements. 


53 


Return on Invested Capital 


ROIC is a non-GAAP financial measure. For further information on ROIC, see “Non-GAAP Measures.” 


2022 2021 
Net income attributable to PepsiCo $ 8,910 $ 7,618 
Interest expense 1,119 1,988 
Tax on interest expense (248) (441) 


$9,781 $ 9,165 


Average debt obligations “ $ 39,595 $ 42,341 
Average common shareholders’ equity © 17,785 14,924 
Average invested capital $ 57,380 $ 57,265 
ROIC, non-GAAP measure 17.0 % 16.0 % 


(a) Includes a quarterly average of short-term and long-term debt obligations. 

(b) Includes a quarterly average of common stock, capital in excess of par value, retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive loss 
and repurchased common stock. 

The table below reconciles ROIC as calculated above to net ROIC, excluding items affecting 

comparability. 


2022 2021 
ROIC, non-GAAP measure 17.0 % 16.0 % 
Impact of: 
Average cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments Dall 2.2 
Interest income (0.3) (0.2) 
Tax on interest income 0.1 = 
Mark-to-market net impact 0.1 0.1 
Restructuring and impairment charges 0.3 0.2 
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges 0.1 (0.1) 
Gain associated with the Juice Transaction (3.3) — 
Impairment and other charges 3.7 — 
Pension and retiree medical-related impact 0.3 (0.1) 
Charge related to cash tender offers (0.2) — 
Tax benefit related to the IRS audit (0.4) — 
Tax expense related to the TCJ Act 0.1 0.3 
Core Net ROIC, non-GAAP measure 19.6 % 18.4 % 


OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

An appreciation of our critical accounting policies and estimates is necessary to understand our financial 
results. These policies may require management to make difficult and subjective judgments regarding 
uncertainties, including the business and economic uncertainty resulting from the Russia-Ukraine conflict 
and the high interest rate and inflationary cost environment, and as a result, such estimates may 
significantly impact our financial results. The precision of these estimates and the likelihood of future 
changes depend on a number of underlying variables and a range of possible outcomes. We applied our 
critical accounting policies and estimation methods consistently in all material respects and for all periods 
presented. We have discussed our critical accounting policies and estimates with our Audit Committee. 


54 


Our critical accounting policies and estimates are: 


* revenue recognition; 

* goodwill and other intangible assets; 
* income tax expense and accruals; and 
* pension and retiree medical plans. 


Revenue Recognition 


We recognize revenue when our performance obligation is satisfied. Our primary performance obligation 
(the distribution and sales of beverage and convenient food products) is satisfied upon the shipment or 
delivery of products to our customers, which is also when control is transferred. The transfer of control of 
products to our customers is typically based on written sales terms that do not allow for a right of return. 
However, our policy for DSD, including certain chilled products, is to remove and replace damaged and 
out-of-date products from store shelves to ensure that consumers receive the product quality and freshness 
they expect. Similarly, our policy for certain warehouse-distributed products is to replace damaged and 
out-of-date products. As a result, we record reserves, based on estimates, for anticipated damaged and out- 
of-date products. 


Our products are sold for cash or on credit terms. Our credit terms, which are established in accordance 
with local and industry practices, typically require payment within 30 days of delivery in the United 
States, and generally within 30 to 90 days internationally, and may allow discounts for early payment. 


We estimate and reserve for our expected credit loss exposure based on our experience with past due 
accounts and collectibility, write-off history, the aging of accounts receivable, our analysis of customer 
data, and forward-looking information (including the expected impact of a high interest rate and 
inflationary cost environment), leveraging estimates of creditworthiness and projections of default and 
recovery rates for certain of our customers. 


Our policy is to provide customers with product when needed. In fact, our commitment to freshness and 
product dating serves to regulate the quantity of product shipped or delivered. In addition, DSD products 
are placed on the shelf by our employees with customer shelf space and storerooms limiting the quantity 
of product. For product delivered through other distribution networks, we monitor customer inventory 
levels. 


As discussed in “Our Customers” in “Item 1. Business,” we offer sales incentives and discounts through 
various programs to customers and consumers. Total marketplace spending includes sales incentives, 
discounts, advertising and other marketing activities. Sales incentives and discounts are primarily 
accounted for as a reduction of revenue and include payments to customers for performing activities on 
our behalf, such as payments for in-store displays, payments to gain distribution of new products, 
payments for shelf space and discounts to promote lower retail prices. Sales incentives and discounts also 
include support provided to our independent bottlers through funding of advertising and other marketing 
activities. 


A number of our sales incentives, such as bottler funding to independent bottlers and customer volume 
rebates, are based on annual targets, and accruals are established during the year, as products are 
delivered, for the expected payout, which may occur after year-end once reconciled and settled. These 
accruals are based on contract terms and our historical experience with similar programs and require 
management judgment with respect to estimating customer and consumer participation and performance 
levels. Differences between estimated expense and actual incentive costs are normally insignificant and 
are recognized in earnings in the period such differences are determined. In addition, certain advertising 
and marketing costs are also based on annual targets and recognized during the year as incurred. 


55 


See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on our revenue recognition and 
related policies, including total marketplace spending. 


Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 


We sell products under a number of brand names, many of which were developed by us. Brand 
development costs are expensed as incurred. We also purchase brands and other intangible assets in 
acquisitions. In a business combination, the consideration is first assigned to identifiable assets and 
liabilities, including brands and other intangible assets, based on estimated fair values, with any excess 
recorded as goodwill. Determining fair value requires significant estimates and assumptions, including 
those related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict and a high interest rate and inflationary cost environment, 
based on an evaluation of a number of factors, such as marketplace participants, product life cycles, 
market share, consumer awareness, brand history and future expansion expectations, amount and timing of 
future cash flows and the discount rate applied to the cash flows. 


We believe that a brand has an indefinite life if it has a history of strong revenue and cash flow 
performance and we have the intent and ability to support the brand with marketplace spending for the 
foreseeable future. If these indefinite-lived brand criteria are not met, brands are amortized over their 
expected useful lives, which generally range from 20 to 40 years. Determining the expected life of a brand 
requires management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors, including market 
share, consumer awareness, brand history, future expansion expectations and regulatory restrictions, as 
well as the macroeconomic environment of the countries in which the brand is sold. 


In connection with previous acquisitions, we reacquired certain franchise rights which provided the 
exclusive and perpetual rights to manufacture and/or distribute beverages for sale in specified territories. 
In determining the useful life of these franchise rights, many factors were considered, including the pre- 
existing perpetual bottling arrangements, the indefinite period expected for these franchise rights to 
contribute to our future cash flows, as well as the lack of any factors that would limit the useful life of 
these franchise rights to us, including legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other 
factors. Therefore, certain of these franchise rights are considered as indefinite-lived. Franchise rights that 
are not considered indefinite-lived are amortized over the remaining contractual period of the contract in 
which the right was granted. 


Indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized and, as a result, are assessed for 
impairment at least annually, using either a qualitative or quantitative approach. We perform this annual 
assessment during our third quarter, or more frequently if circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
may not be recoverable. Where we use the qualitative assessment, first we determine if, based on 
qualitative factors, it is more likely than not that an impairment exists. Factors considered include 
macroeconomic conditions (including those related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict and a high interest rate 
and inflationary cost environment), industry and competitive conditions, legal and regulatory environment, 
historical financial performance and significant changes in the brand or reporting unit. If the qualitative 
assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that an impairment exists, then a quantitative 
assessment is performed. 


In the quantitative assessment for indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill, an assessment is 
performed to determine the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset and the reporting unit, 
respectively. Estimated fair value is determined using discounted cash flows and requires an analysis of 
several estimates including future cash flows or income consistent with management’s strategic business 
plans, annual sales growth rates, perpetuity growth assumptions and the selection of assumptions 
underlying a discount rate (weighted-average cost of capital) based on market data available at the time. 
Significant management judgment is necessary to estimate the impact of competitive operating, 
macroeconomic and other factors (including those related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict and a high 


56 


interest rate and inflationary cost environment) to estimate future levels of sales, operating profit or cash 
flows. All assumptions used in our impairment evaluations for indefinite-lived intangible assets and 
goodwill, such as forecasted growth rates (including perpetuity growth assumptions) and weighted- 
average cost of capital, are based on the best available market information and are consistent with our 
internal forecasts and operating plans. A deterioration in these assumptions could adversely impact our 
results. These assumptions could be adversely impacted by certain of the risks described in “Item 1A. Risk 
Factors” and “Our Business Risks.” 


In 2022, we recorded $1.3 billion ($1.1 billion after-tax or $0.78 per share) of indefinite-lived intangible 
asset impairment charges related to the SodaStream brand in Europe. As a result, its carrying value as of 
December 31, 2022 is equal to its fair value and the brand is at a heightened risk of future impairment if 
certain assumptions and estimates were to change. For example, a mutually exclusive 100-basis-point 
increase in the discount rate and a 100-basis-point decrease in the perpetuity growth rate used to estimate 
the fair value of the SodaStream brand would result in an additional estimated impairment charge of 
approximately $0.2 billion and $0.1 billion, respectively. We will continue to monitor the performance of 
the SodaStream brand and goodwill, as well as all of our indefinite-lived intangible assets. 


Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating 
or macroeconomic environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted future cash flows indicates 
impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on its discounted future 
cash flows. 


See Notes 2 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 


Income Tax Expense and Accruals 


Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax structure and transactions, including 
transfer pricing arrangements, available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant 
judgment is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish 
reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain 
positions are subject to challenge and that we likely will not succeed. We adjust these reserves, as well as 
the related interest, in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit, new 
tax laws, relevant court cases or tax authority settlements. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further 
discussion. 


An estimated annual effective tax rate is applied to our quarterly operating results. In the event there is a 
significant or unusual item recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is 
separately calculated and recorded at the same time as that item. We consider the tax adjustments from the 
resolution of prior-year tax matters to be among such items. 


Tax law requires items to be included in our tax returns at different times than the items are reflected in 
our consolidated financial statements. As a result, our annual tax rate reflected in our consolidated 
financial statements is different than that reported in our tax returns (our cash tax rate). Some of these 
differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences 
reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. These temporary differences create deferred tax assets 
and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in 
our tax returns in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit on our consolidated 
financial statements. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets if, based on the 
available evidence, it is not more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be 
realized. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our consolidated financial 
statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which we have already taken a deduction 
in our tax return but have not yet recognized as expense in our consolidated financial statements. 


57 


In 2022, our annual tax rate was 16.1% compared to 21.8% in 2021. See “Other Consolidated Results” for 
further information. 


See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. 


Pension and Retiree Medical Plans 


Our pension plans cover certain employees in the United States and certain international employees. 
Benefits are determined based on either years of service or a combination of years of service and earnings. 
Certain U.S. and Canada retirees are also eligible for medical and life insurance benefits (retiree medical) 
if they meet age and service requirements. Generally, our share of retiree medical costs is capped at 
specified dollar amounts, which vary based upon years of service, with retirees contributing the remainder 
of the cost. In addition, we have been phasing out certain subsidies of retiree medical benefits. 


See “Items Affecting Comparability” and Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for information 
about changes and settlements within our pension plans. 


Our Assumptions 


The determination of pension and retiree medical expenses and obligations requires the use of assumptions 
to estimate the amount of benefits that employees earn while working, as well as the present value of those 
benefits. Annual pension and retiree medical expense amounts are principally based on four components: 
(1) the value of benefits earned by employees for working during the year (service cost), (2) the increase 
in the projected benefit obligation due to the passage of time (interest cost), and (3) other gains and losses 
as discussed in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements, reduced by (4) the expected return on 
assets for our funded plans. 


Significant assumptions used to measure our annual pension and retiree medical expenses include: 
* certain employee-related demographic factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality; 
* the expected rate of return on assets in our funded plans; 


* the spot rates along the yield curve used to determine service and interest costs and the present 
value of liabilities; 


* for pension expense, the rate of salary increases for plans where benefits are based on earnings; 
and 


* for retiree medical expense, health care cost trend rates. 


Certain assumptions reflect our historical experience and management’s best judgment regarding future 
expectations. All actuarial assumptions are reviewed annually, except in the case of an interim 
remeasurement due to a significant event such as a curtailment or settlement. Due to the significant 
management judgment involved, these assumptions could have a material impact on the measurement of 
our pension and retiree medical expenses and obligations. 


At each measurement date, the discount rates are based on interest rates for high-quality, long-term 
corporate debt securities with maturities comparable to those of our liabilities. Our U.S. obligation and 
pension and retiree medical expense is based on the discount rates determined using the Mercer Above 
Mean Curve. This curve includes bonds that closely match the timing and amount of our expected benefit 
payments and reflects the portfolio of investments we would consider to settle our liabilities. 


See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for information about the expected rate of return on 
plan assets and our plans’ investment strategy. Although we review our expected long-term rates of return 
on an annual basis, our asset returns in a given year do not significantly influence our evaluation of long- 
term rates of return. 


58 


The health care trend rate used to determine our retiree medical plans’ obligation and expense is reviewed 
annually. Our review is based on our claims experience, information provided by our health plans and 
actuaries, and our knowledge of the health care industry. Our review of the trend rate considers factors 
such as demographics, plan design, new medical technologies and changes in medical carriers. 


Weighted-average assumptions for pension and retiree medical expense are as follows: 


2023 2022 2021 


Pension 
Service cost discount rate 5.5 % 3.2% 2.6% 
Interest cost discount rate ® 5.4% 2.9% 1.9% 
Expected rate of return on plan assets “ 7.0 % 6.3 % 6.2 % 
Expected rate of salary increases 3.3 % 3.1% 3.1% 
Retiree medical 
Service cost discount rate 5.4% 2.8 % 2.3% 
Interest cost discount rate 5.3 % 2.1% 1.6 % 
Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.1% 5.7 % 54% 
Current health care cost trend rate 5.5 % 5.8 % 5.5% 


(a) 2022 rates reflect remeasurement of a U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan in the second quarter of 2022. 


In 2022, lump sum distributions exceeded the total of annual service and interest cost and triggered pre-tax 
settlement charges for certain U.S defined pension plans. In addition, we expect the recognition of fixed 
income losses on plan assets, partially offset by higher discount rates, to increase our pension and retiree 
medical expense in 2023. 
Sensitivity of Assumptions 
A decrease in each of the collective discount rates or in the expected rate of return assumptions would 
increase expense for our benefit plans. A 25-basis-point decrease in each of the above discount rates and 
expected rate of return assumptions would individually increase 2023 pre-tax pension and retiree medical 
expense as follows: 

Assumption Amount 
Discount rates used in the calculation of expense $ 13 
Expected rate of return $ 38 


Funding 


We make contributions to pension trusts that provide plan benefits for certain pension plans. These 
contributions are made in accordance with applicable tax regulations that provide for current tax 
deductions for our contributions and taxation to the employee only upon receipt of plan benefits. 
Generally, we do not fund our pension plans when our contributions would not be currently tax deductible. 
As our retiree medical plans are not subject to regulatory funding requirements, we generally fund these 
plans on a pay-as-you-go basis, although we periodically review available options to make additional 
contributions toward these benefits. 


We made a discretionary contribution of $125 million to a U.S. qualified defined benefit plan in January 
2023 and expect to make an additional $125 million in the third quarter of 2023. 


Our pension and retiree medical plan contributions are subject to change as a result of many factors, such 
as changes in interest rates, deviations between actual and expected asset returns and changes in tax or 
other benefit laws. We regularly evaluate different opportunities to reduce risk and volatility associated 
with our pension and retiree medical plans. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for our 
past and expected contributions and estimated future benefit payments. 


59 


Consolidated Statement of Income 
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries 


Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020 


(in millions except per share amounts) 


Net Revenue 
Cost of sales 
Gross profit 
Selling, general and administrative expenses 
Gain associated with the Juice Transaction (see Note 13) 
Impairment of intangible assets (see Notes | and 4) 
Operating Profit 
Other pension and retiree medical benefits income 
Net interest expense and other 
Income before income taxes 
Provision for income taxes 
Net income 
Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo 
Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo per Common Share 
Basic 
Diluted 
Weighted-average common shares outstanding 
Basic 
Diluted 


See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 


60 


2022 


$ 86,392 


40,576 


45,816 


34,459 
(3,321) 
3,166 


11,512 


132 
(939) 


10,705 


1,727 


8,978 


68 


$ 8,910 


$ 6.45 
$ 6.42 


1,380 
1,387 


$ 


$ 
$ 


2021 


79,474 


37,075 


42,399 


31,237 


11,162 


522 


Sey 


9,821 
2,142 


7,679 


61 


7,618 


5.51 
5.49 


1,382 
1,389 


$ 


$ 


2020 


70,372 


31,797 


38,575 


28,453 


42 


10,080 


117 


(1,128) 


9,069 
1,894 


7,175 


55 


7,120 


5.14 
Sell 


1,385 
1,392 


Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries 


Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020 


(in millions) 


Net income $ 
Other comprehensive (loss)/income, net of taxes: 

Net currency translation adjustment 

Net change on cash flow hedges 

Net pension and retiree medical adjustments 

Other 


Comprehensive income 


Less: Comprehensive income attributable to 
noncontrolling interests 


Comprehensive Income Attributable to PepsiCo $ 


See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 


61 


8,978 $ 


8,506 $ 8,196 $ 


2022 


(643) 

(158) 
389 
4 

(408) 
8,570 


64 


2021 


7612 5 


(369) 
155 
770 
2 
578 
8,257 


61 


Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries 


Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020 


(in millions) 


Operating Activities 
Net income 
Depreciation and amortization 
Gain associated with the Juice Transaction 
Impairment and other charges 
Operating lease right-of-use asset amortization 
Share-based compensation expense 
Restructuring and impairment charges 
Cash payments for restructuring charges 
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges 
Cash payments for acquisition and divestiture-related charges 
Pension and retiree medical plan expenses 
Pension and retiree medical plan contributions 
Deferred income taxes and other tax charges and credits 
Tax expense related to the TCJ Act 
Tax payments related to the TCJ Act 
Change in assets and liabilities: 
Accounts and notes receivable 
Inventories 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 
Accounts payable and other current liabilities 
Income taxes payable 
Other, net 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 


Investing Activities 
Capital spending 
Sales of property, plant and equipment 


Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, investments in noncontrolled affiliates and 
purchases of intangible and other assets 


Proceeds associated with the Juice Transaction 


Other divestitures, sales of investments in noncontrolled affiliates and other 
assets 


Short-term investments, by original maturity: 
More than three months - purchases 
More than three months - maturities 
Three months or less, net 

Other investing, net 

Net Cash Used for Investing Activities 


(Continued on following page) 


62 


2022 


$ 8,978 
2,763 
(3,321) 
3,618 
517 
343 
411 
(224) 
80 
(46) 
419 
(384) 
(873) 
86 
(309) 


(1,763) 

(1,142) 
118 
1,842 
57 

(359) 


10,811 


(5,207) 
251 


(873) 
3,456 


49 


(291) 
150 
24 
11 


(2,430) 


2021 


$ 7,679 
2,710 


1,135 
(58) 
5 


(3,269) 


(4,240) 
55 


(6,372) 


(1,135) 
27 
40 


(11,619) 


Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (continued) 

PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020 
(in millions) 


2022 2021 2020 

Financing Activities 
Proceeds from issuances of long-term debt $ 3,377 $ 4,122 $ 13,809 
Payments of long-term debt (2,458) (3,455) (1,830) 
Debt redemptions/cash tender offers (1,716) (4,844) (1,100) 
Short-term borrowings, by original maturity: 

More than three months - proceeds 1,969 8 4,077 

More than three months - payments (1,951) (397) (3,554) 

Three months or less, net (31) 434 (109) 
Payments of acquisition-related contingent consideration = (773) = 
Cash dividends paid (6,172) (5,815) (5,509) 
Share repurchases - common (1,500) (106) (2,000) 
Proceeds from exercises of stock options 138 185 179 
Withholding tax payments on restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance 

stock units (PSUs) converted (107) (92) (96) 
Other financing (72) (47) (48) 
Net Cash (Used for)/Provided by Financing Activities (8,523) (10,780) 3,819 
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted 

cash (465) (114) (129) 
Net (Decrease)/Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted 

Cash (607) (2,547) 2,684 
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash, Beginning of Year 5,707 8,254 5,570 
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash, End of Year $ 5,100 $ 5,707 $ 8,254 


See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 


63 


Consolidated Balance Sheet 
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries 


December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021 


(in millions except per share amounts) 


ASSETS 
Current Assets 

Cash and cash equivalents 

Short-term investments 

Accounts and notes receivable, net 

Inventories 

Prepaid expenses and other current assets 

Assets held for sale 

Total Current Assets 
Property, Plant and Equipment, net 
Amortizable Intangible Assets, net 
Goodwill 
Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets 
Investments in Noncontrolled Affiliates 
Deferred Income Taxes 
Other Assets 
Total Assets 


LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 
Current Liabilities 
Short-term debt obligations 


Accounts payable and other current liabilities 


Liabilities held for sale 
Total Current Liabilities 
Long-Term Debt Obligations 
Deferred Income Taxes 
Other Liabilities 
Total Liabilities 
Commitments and contingencies 
PepsiCo Common Shareholders’ Equity 


Common stock, par value 17/;¢ per share (authorized 3,600 shares; issued, net of repurchased 
common stock at par value: 1,377 and 1,383 shares, respectively) 


Capital in excess of par value 
Retained earnings 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss 


Repurchased common stock, in excess of par value (490 and 484 shares, respectively) 
Total PepsiCo Common Shareholders’ Equity 


Noncontrolling interests 
Total Equity 
Total Liabilities and Equity 


See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 


64 


(39,506) 


2022 


23 

4,134 

67,800 
(15,302) 


17,149 
124 


17,273 


92,187 $ 92,377 


2021 


5,596 
392 
8,680 
4,347 
980 
1,788 


21,783 


22,407 
1,538 
18,381 
ee 
2,350 
4,310 
4,481 


OUST 


4,308 
21,159 
753 


26,220 


36,026 
4,826 
9,154 


76,226 


23 

4,001 

65,165 
(14,898) 


(38,248) 


16,043 
108 
16,151 


Consolidated Statement of Equity 
PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries 


Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020 


(in millions except per share amounts) 


Common Stock 
Balance, beginning of year 
Change in repurchased common stock 
Balance, end of year 

Capital in Excess of Par Value 
Balance, beginning of year 
Share-based compensation expense 


Stock option exercises, RSUs and PSUs 
converted 


Withholding tax on RSUs and PSUs 
converted 


Other 
Balance, end of year 

Retained Earnings 
Balance, beginning of year 
Cumulative effect of accounting changes 
Net income attributable to PepsiCo 
Cash dividends declared - common 
Balance, end of year 

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
Balance, beginning of year 


Other comprehensive (loss)/income 
attributable to PepsiCo 


Balance, end of year 

Repurchased Common Stock 
Balance, beginning of year 
Share repurchases 


Stock option exercises, RSUs and PSUs 
converted 


Other 
Balance, end of year 


Total PepsiCo Common Shareholders’ Equity 


Noncontrolling Interests 
Balance, beginning of year 


Net income attributable to noncontrolling 
interests 


Distributions to noncontrolling interests 
Acquisitions 
Other, net 
Balance, end of year 
Total Equity 


2022 


Shares Amount 


(102) 


(107) 
(4) 


4,134 


65,165 


8,910 


(6,275) 


67,800 


(14,898) 


(404) 


(15,302) 


(484) (38,248) 


2021 


Shares Amount 


(118) 


(92) 
Q) 
4,001 


63,443 


7,618 


(5,896) 


65,165 


(15,476) 


578 


(14,898) 


(487) (38,446) 


(9) — (1,500) (1) (106) 
3 240 4 303 
— 2 — 1 
(490) __ (39,506) (484) (38,248) 
17,149 16,043 

108 98 

68 61 

(69) (49) 

21 — 

(4) (2) 

124 108 

$_ 17,273 $16,151 


2020 


Shares Amount 


(143) 


(96) 


3,910 


61,946 

(34) 
7,120 

(5,589) 
63,443 


(14,300) 
(1,176) 
(15,476) 


(476) (36,769) 
(15) (2,000) 


4 3) 


Sees so) 


13,454 


82 


98 
$ 13,552 


(a) Cash dividends declared per common share were $4.5250, $4.2475 and $4.0225 for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 


See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 


65 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
Note 1 — Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions 
Basis of Presentation 


The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP and 
include the consolidated accounts of PepsiCo, Inc. and the affiliates that we control. In addition, we 
include our share of the results of certain other affiliates using the equity method based on our economic 
ownership interest, our ability to exercise significant influence over the operating or financial decisions of 
these affiliates or our ability to direct their economic resources. We do not control these other affiliates, as 
our ownership in these other affiliates is generally 50% or less. Intercompany balances and transactions 
are eliminated. As a result of exchange restrictions and other operating restrictions, we do not have control 
over our Venezuelan subsidiaries. As such, our Venezuelan subsidiaries are not included within our 
consolidated financial results for any period presented. 


Raw materials, direct labor and plant overhead, as well as purchasing and receiving costs, costs directly 
related to production planning, inspection costs and raw materials handling facilities, are included in cost 
of sales. The costs of moving, storing and delivering finished product, including merchandising activities, 
are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. 


The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and disclosure of contingent assets 
and liabilities. Estimates are used in determining, among other items, sales incentives accruals, tax 
reserves, share-based compensation, pension and retiree medical accruals, amounts and useful lives for 
intangible assets and future cash flows associated with impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible 
assets, goodwill and other long-lived assets. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis using our 
historical experience, as well as other factors we believe appropriate under the circumstances, such as 
current economic conditions, and adjust or revise our estimates as circumstances change. Additionally, the 
business and economic uncertainty resulting from the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the high interest rate 
and inflationary cost environment has made such estimates and assumptions more difficult to calculate. As 
future events and their effect cannot be determined with precision, actual results could differ significantly 
from those estimates. 


Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of each December, resulting in a 53 reporting week every five 
or six years, including in our 2022 financial results. While our North America financial results are 
reported on a weekly calendar basis, substantially all of our international operations reported on a monthly 
calendar basis prior to the fourth quarter of 2021. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2021, all of our 
international operations reported on a monthly calendar basis. This change did not have a material impact 
on our consolidated financial statements. The following chart details our quarterly reporting schedule for 
2022, reflecting the additional week in the fourth quarter: 


Quarter United States and Canada International 

First Quarter 12 weeks January, February 

Second Quarter 12 weeks March, April and May 

Third Quarter 12 weeks June, July and August 

Fourth Quarter 17 weeks September, October, November and December 


Unless otherwise noted, tabular dollars are in millions, except per share amounts. All per share amounts 
reflect common per share amounts, assume dilution unless otherwise noted, and are based on unrounded 
amounts. Certain reclassifications were made to the prior year’s consolidated financial statements to 
conform to the current year presentation. 


66 


Our Divisions 
We are organized into seven reportable segments (also referred to as divisions), as follows: 
1) Frito-Lay North America (FLNA), which includes our branded convenient food businesses in the 
United States and Canada; 
2) Quaker Foods North America (QFNA), which includes our branded convenient food businesses, 
such as cereal, rice, pasta and other branded food, in the United States and Canada; 
3) PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA), which includes our beverage businesses in the United 
States and Canada; 
4) Latin America (LatAm), which includes all of our beverage and convenient food businesses in 
Latin America; 
5) Europe, which includes all of our beverage and convenient food businesses in Europe; 
6) Africa, Middle East and South Asia (AMESA), which includes all of our beverage and convenient 
food businesses in Africa, the Middle East and South Asia; and 
7) Asia Pacific, Australia, and New Zealand and China region (APAC), which includes all of our 
beverage and convenient food businesses in Asia Pacific, Australia and New Zealand, and China 
region. 
Through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third parties, we make, 
market, distribute and sell a wide variety of beverages and convenient foods, serving customers and 
consumers in more than 200 countries and territories with our largest operations in the United States, 
Mexico, Russia, Canada, China, the United Kingdom and South Africa. 


The accounting policies for the divisions are the same as those described in Note 2, except for the 
following allocation methodologies: 


« share-based compensation expense; 

* pension and retiree medical expense; and 

* derivatives. 
Share-Based Compensation Expense 
Our divisions are held accountable for share-based compensation expense and, therefore, this expense is 
allocated to our divisions as an incremental employee compensation cost. 


The allocation of share-based compensation expense of each division is as follows: 


2022 2021 2020 
FLNA 13 % 13 % 13 % 
QFNA 1% 1% 1% 
PBNA 20 % 19 % 18 % 
LatAm 6% 5% 6 % 
Europe 11 % 13 % 16% 
AMESA 5% 6 % 6 % 
APAC 3% 2% 2% 
Corporate unallocated expenses 41% 41% 38 % 


The expense allocated to our divisions excludes any impact of changes in our assumptions during the year 
which reflect market conditions over which division management has no control. Therefore, any variances 
between allocated expense and our actual expense are recognized in corporate unallocated expenses. 


67 


Pension and Retiree Medical Expense 


Pension and retiree medical service costs measured at fixed discount rates are reflected in division results. 
The variance between the fixed discount rate used to determine the service cost reflected in division 
results and the discount rate as disclosed in Note 7 is reflected in corporate unallocated expenses. 


Derivatives 


We centrally manage commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. These commodity derivatives 
include agricultural products, energy and metals. Commodity derivatives that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting treatment are marked to market each period with the resulting gains and losses recorded in 
corporate unallocated expenses as either cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses, 
depending on the underlying commodity. These gains and losses are subsequently reflected in division 
results when the divisions recognize the cost of the underlying commodity in operating profit. Therefore, 
the divisions realize the economic effects of the derivative without experiencing any resulting mark-to- 
market volatility, which remains in corporate unallocated expenses. These derivatives hedge underlying 
commodity price risk and were not entered into for trading or speculative purposes. 


Net Revenue and Operating Profit/(Loss) 


Net revenue and operating profit/(loss) of each division are as follows: 


Net Revenue Operating Profit/(Loss) 

2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 
FLNA $ 23,291 $ 19,608 $ 18,189 $ 6,135 $ 5,633 $ 5,340 
QFNA 3,160 2,751 2,742 604 578 669 
PBNA® 26,213 25,276 22,559 5,426 2,442 1,937 
LatAm 9,779 8,108 6,942 1,627 1,369 1,033 
Europe” 12,724 13,038 11,922 (1,380) 1,292 1353 
AMESA “) 6,438 6,078 4,573 666 858 600 
APAC © 4,787 4,615 3,445 537 673 590 
Total division 86,392 79,474 70,372 13,615 12,845 11,522 
Corporate unallocated expenses — — — (2,103) (1,683) (1,442) 
Total $ 86,392 $ 79,474 $ 70,372 $ 11,512 $ 11,162 $ 10,080 
(a) See below for impairment and other charges taken related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict, brand portfolio impairment and other 


impairment. 

(b) In 2022, we recorded a gain of $3,029 million and $292 million in our PBNA and Europe divisions, respectively, associated with the 
Juice Transaction. The total after-tax amount was $2,888 million or $2.08 per share. See Note 13 for further information. 

(c) In 2021, the increase in net revenue in our AMESA and APAC divisions reflect our acquisitions of Pioneer Foods and Be & Cheery, 
respectively. See Note 13 for further information. 


68 


Disaggregation of Net Revenue 


Our primary performance obligation is the distribution and sales of beverage and convenient food products 
to our customers. The following table reflects the approximate percentage of net revenue generated 
between our beverage business and our convenient food business for each of our international divisions, as 
well as our consolidated net revenue: 


2022 2021 2020 
Convenient Convenient Convenient 
Beverages” Foods Beverages” Foods Beverages Foods 
LatAm 10% 90 % 10% 90 % 10 % 90 % 
Europe 50 % 50 % 55 % 45 % 55 % 45 % 
AMESA 30 % 70 % 30 % 70 % 30 % 70 % 
APAC 25 % 715 % 20 % 80 % 25 % 715 % 
PepsiCo 40 % 60 % 45% 55 % 45% 55% 


(a) Beverage revenue from company-owned bottlers, which primarily includes our consolidated bottling operations in our PBNA and 
Europe divisions, is approximately 35% of our consolidated net revenue in 2022 and approximately 40% of our consolidated net revenue 
in 2021 and 2020. Generally, our finished goods beverage operations produce higher net revenue, but lower operating margins as 
compared to concentrate sold to authorized bottling partners for the manufacture of finished goods beverages 


Impairment and Other Charges 


We recognized Russia-Ukraine conflict charges, brand portfolio impairment charges and other impairment 
charges as described below. 


A summary of pre-tax charges taken in 2022 in our Europe division as a result of the Russia-Ukraine 
conflict is as follows: 


Russia-Ukraine conflict charges 


Selling, 
general and Impairment 


Cost of administrative of intang ble 


sales expenses assets” Total 

Impairment charges related to intangible assets $ = § — §$ 1,198 §$ 1,198 
Impairment charges related to property, plant and equipment 103 22 — 125 
Allowance for expected credit losses — 12 — 12 
Allowance for inventory write downs 28 1 — 29 
Other 9 42 — 51 
Total $ 140 $ 77. $ 1,198 $ 1,415 
After-tax amount LL LL |S keel 1249 
Impact on net income attributable to PepsiCo per common 

share $ (0.81) 


(a) See Note 4 for further information. For information on our policies for indefinite-lived intangible assets, see Note 2. 


69 


A summary of pre-tax charges taken in 2022 as a result of our decision to reposition or discontinue the 
sale/distribution of certain brands and to sell an investment is as follows: 


Brand portfolio impairment charges 


Selling, 
generaland Impairment 
Costof administrative of intangible 
sales expenses assets” Total 


PBNA $ 26 $ 8 $ 126 $ 160 Impairment and other charges 
associated with distribution rights 
and inventory due to the 
termination of Bang energy drinks 
distribution agreement 


LatAm — 35 36 71 Loss on sale and impairment of 
intangible assets related to the 
sale of certain non-strategic 
brands 


Europe 1 10 242 253 Primarily impairment of 
intangible assets related to the 
discontinuation or repositioning 
of certain juice and dairy brands 
in Russia 

AMESA 29 121 9 159 Primarily impairment of 
investment, property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets 
related to the sale or 
discontinuation of non-strategic 
investment and brands 


APAC 5 = = 5 Impairment of property, plant and 
equipment related to the 
discontinuation of a non-strategic 


rand in China 
Total $ 61 $ 174 $ 413 $ 648 
After-tax amount $ 522 
Impact on net income attributable 
to PepsiCo per common share $ (0.38) 


(a) See Note 4 for further information. For information on our policies for indefinite-lived intangible assets, see Note 2. 


A summary of pre-tax impairment charges taken in 2022 as a result of our quantitative assessments of 
certain of our indefinite-lived intangible assets is as follows: 


Other impairment charges 


Impairment of 
intangible assets” 


FLNA $ 88 Related to a baked fruit convenient food brand 
Europe 1,264 Related to the SodaStream brand 
AMESA 31 Primarily related to certain juice brands from the Pioneer 
Foods acquisition 
APAC 172 Related to the Be & Cheery brand 
Total $ 1,555 
After-tax amount $1,301. 
Impact on net income attributable to 
PepsiCo per common share $ (0.94) 


(a) See Note 4 for further information. For information on our policies for indefinite-lived intangible assets, see Note 2. 


70 


COVID-19 Charges 


Operating profit includes certain pre-tax charges taken as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic related to 
incremental employee compensation costs, such as certain leave benefits and labor costs, employee 
protection costs, allowances for expected credit losses and upfront payments to customers and their related 
adjustments for changes in estimates as conditions improve, inventory write-downs, product returns and 
other expenses. These pre-tax charges by division are as follows: 


COVID-19 charges 


2022 2021 2020 
FLNA $ 25 $ 56 $ 229 
QFNA 1 2 15 
PBNA “ 23 (11) 304 
LatAm 15 64 102 
Europe 5 21 88 
AMESA 5 7 33 
APAC 21 9 3) 
Total $ 95 $ 148 $ 774 


(a) Income amount primarily relates to adjustments for changes in estimates of allowances for expected credit losses and upfront payments 
to customers, due to improved projected default rates and lower at-risk balances. 


Corporate Unallocated Expenses 


Corporate unallocated expenses include costs of our corporate headquarters, centrally managed initiatives 
such as commodity derivative gains and losses, foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, our ongoing 
business transformation initiatives, unallocated research and development costs, unallocated insurance and 
benefit programs, tax-related contingent consideration, certain acquisition and divestiture-related charges, 
certain gains and losses on equity investments, as well as certain other items. 


Other Division Information 


Total assets and capital spending of each division are as follows: 


Total Assets Capital Spending 

2022 2021 2022 2021 2020 
FLNA $ 11,042 $ 9763 $ 1,464 $ 1,411 $ 1,189 
QFNA 1,245 1,101 93 92 85 
PBNA 40,286 37,801 1,714 Lvs 1,245 
LatAm 7,886 7,272 581 461 390 
Europe 16,230 18,472 668 TS 730 
AMESA 6,143 6,125 307 325 252 
APAC 5,452 5,654 241 203 230 
Total division 88,284 86,188 5,068 4,519 4,121 
Corporate @) 3,903 6,189 139 106 119 
Total $92,187, $ 92,377. $ 5,207 $ 4625 $ 4,240 


(a) Corporate assets consist principally of certain cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, short-term investments, derivative instruments, 
property, plant and equipment, pension plan assets and tax assets. In 2022, the change in assets was primarily due to a decrease in cash 
and cash equivalents. 


71 


Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation and other amortization of each division are as follows: 


Amortization of Depreciation and 
Intangible Assets Other Amortization 
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 
FLNA $ ll $ ll $ 10. $ 653 $ 594 $ 550 
QFNA — — — 47 46 41 
PBNA 22 25 28 930 926 899 
LatAm 3 4 4 306 283 251 
Europe 30 By) 40 357 364 350 
AMESA 4 5 3 179 181 149 
APAC 8 9 5 92 102 91 
Total division 78 91 90 2,564 2,496 2,331 
Corporate = — — 121 123 127 
Total $ 78 $ 91 $ 90 §$ 2,685 § 2,619 § 2,458 


Net revenue and long-lived assets by country are as follows: 


Net Revenue Long-Lived Assets 

2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 

United States $ 49,390 $ 44,545 $ 40,800 $ 38,240 $ 36,324 
Mexico 5,472 4,580 3,924 1,933 1,720 
Russia 4,118 3,426 3,009 2,538 3,751 
Canada 3,536 3,405 2,989 2,678 2,846 
China ©? 2,752 2,679 1,732 1,517 1,745 
United Kingdom 1,844 2,102 1,882 847 906 
South Africa © 1,837 2,008 1,282 1,327 1,389 
All other countries 17,443 16,729 14,754 12,885 13,399 
Total $ 86,392 $ 79,474 $ 70,372 $ 61,965 $ 62,080 


(a) Long-lived assets represent property, plant and equipment, indefinite-lived intangible assets, amortizable intangible assets, investments 
in noncontrolled affiliates and other investments included in other assets. See Notes 2 and 14 for further information on property, plant 
and equipment. See Notes 2 and 4 for further information on goodwill and other intangible assets. See Note 14 for further information on 
other assets. Investments in noncontrolled affiliates are evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating or 
macroeconomic environment. These assets are reported in the country where they are primarily used. 

(b) In 2021, the increase in net revenue reflects our acquisition of Be & Cheery. See Note 13 for further information. 

(c) In 2021, the increase in net revenue reflects our acquisition of Pioneer Foods. See Note 13 for further information. 


Note 2 — Our Significant Accounting Policies 
Revenue Recognition 


We recognize revenue when our performance obligation is satisfied. Our primary performance obligation 
(the distribution and sales of beverage and convenient food products) is satisfied upon the shipment or 
delivery of products to our customers, which is also when control is transferred. Merchandising activities 
are performed after a customer obtains control of the product, are accounted for as fulfillment of our 
performance obligation to ship or deliver product to our customers and are recorded in selling, general and 
administrative expenses. Merchandising activities are immaterial in the context of our contracts. In 
addition, we exclude from net revenue all sales, use, value-added and certain excise taxes assessed by 
government authorities on revenue producing transactions. 


The transfer of control of products to our customers is typically based on written sales terms that do not 
allow for a right of return. However, our policy for DSD, including certain chilled products, is to remove 
and replace damaged and out-of-date products from store shelves to ensure that consumers receive the 
product quality and freshness they expect. Similarly, our policy for certain warehouse-distributed products 


72 


is to replace damaged and out-of-date products. As a result, we record reserves, based on estimates, for 
anticipated damaged and out-of-date products. 


Our products are sold for cash or on credit terms. Our credit terms, which are established in accordance 
with local and industry practices, typically require payment within 30 days of delivery in the United 
States, and generally within 30 to 90 days internationally, and may allow discounts for early payment. 


We estimate and reserve for our expected credit loss exposure based on our experience with past due 
accounts and collectibility, write-off history, the aging of accounts receivable, our analysis of customer 
data, and forward-looking information (including the expected impact of a high interest rate and 
inflationary cost environment), leveraging estimates of creditworthiness and projections of default and 
recovery rates for certain of our customers. 


We are exposed to concentration of credit risk from our major customers, including Walmart. We have not 
experienced credit issues with these customers. In 2022, sales to Walmart and its affiliates (including 
Sam’s) represented approximately 14% of our consolidated net revenue, including concentrate sales to our 
independent bottlers, which were used in finished goods sold by them to Walmart. 


Total Marketplace Spending 


We offer sales incentives and discounts through various programs to customers and consumers. Total 
marketplace spending includes sales incentives, discounts, advertising and other marketing activities. 
Sales incentives and discounts are primarily accounted for as a reduction of revenue and include payments 
to customers for performing activities on our behalf, such as payments for in-store displays, payments to 
gain distribution of new products, payments for shelf space and discounts to promote lower retail prices. 
Sales incentives and discounts also include support provided to our independent bottlers through funding 
of advertising and other marketing activities. 


A number of our sales incentives, such as bottler funding to independent bottlers and customer volume 
rebates, are based on annual targets, and accruals are established during the year, as products are 
delivered, for the expected payout, which may occur after year-end once reconciled and settled. These 
accruals are based on contract terms and our historical experience with similar programs and require 
management judgment with respect to estimating customer and consumer participation and performance 
levels. Differences between estimated expense and actual incentive costs are normally insignificant and 
are recognized in earnings in the period such differences are determined. In addition, certain advertising 
and marketing costs are also based on annual targets and recognized during the year as incurred. 


The terms of most of our incentive arrangements do not exceed one year and, therefore, do not require 
highly uncertain long-term estimates. Certain arrangements, such as fountain pouring rights, may extend 
beyond one year. Upfront payments to customers under these arrangements are recognized over the 
shorter of the economic or contractual life, primarily as a reduction of revenue, and the remaining balances 
of $242 million as of December 31, 2022 and $262 million as of December 25, 2021 are included in 
prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets on our balance sheet. 


For interim reporting, our policy is to allocate our forecasted full-year sales incentives for most of our 
programs to each of our interim reporting periods in the same year that benefits from the programs. The 
allocation methodology is based on our forecasted sales incentives for the full year and the proportion of 
each interim period’s actual gross revenue or volume, as applicable, to our forecasted annual gross 
revenue or volume, as applicable. Based on our review of the forecasts at each interim period, any changes 
in estimates and the related allocation of sales incentives are recognized beginning in the interim period 
that they are identified. In addition, we apply a similar allocation methodology for interim reporting 
purposes for certain advertising and other marketing activities. Our annual consolidated financial 
statements are not impacted by this interim allocation methodology. 


73 


Advertising and other marketing activities, reported as selling, general and administrative expenses, 
totaled $5.2 billion in 2022, $5.1 billion in 2021 and $4.6 billion in 2020, including advertising expenses 
of $3.5 billion in both 2022 and 2021, and $3.0 billion in 2020. Deferred advertising costs are not 
expensed until the year first used and consist of: 


* media and personal service prepayments; 
* promotional materials in inventory; and 
* production costs of future media advertising. 


Deferred advertising costs of $40 million and $53 million as of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 
2021, respectively, are classified as prepaid expenses and other current assets on our balance sheet. 


Distribution Costs 


Distribution costs, including the costs of shipping and handling activities, which include certain 
merchandising activities, are reported as selling, general and administrative expenses. Shipping and 
handling expenses were $15.0 billion in 2022, $13.7 billion in 2021 and $11.9 billion in 2020. 


Software Costs 


We capitalize certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with 
developing or obtaining computer software for internal use when both the preliminary project stage is 
completed and it is probable that the software will be used as intended. Capitalized software costs include 
(1) external direct costs of materials and services utilized in developing or obtaining computer software, 
(2) compensation and related benefits for employees who are directly associated with the software projects 
and (3) interest costs incurred while developing internal-use computer software. Capitalized software costs 
are included in property, plant and equipment on our balance sheet and amortized on a straight-line basis 
when placed into service over the estimated useful lives of the software, which approximate five to 10 
years. Software amortization totaled $123 million in 2022, $135 million in 2021 and $152 million in 2020. 
Net capitalized software and development costs were $1.1 billion and $0.8 billion as of December 31, 
2022 and December 25, 2021, respectively. 


Commitments and Contingencies 


We are subject to various claims and contingencies related to lawsuits, certain taxes and environmental 
matters, as well as commitments under contractual and other commercial obligations. We recognize 
liabilities for contingencies and commitments when a loss is probable and estimable. 


Research and Development 


We engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to invest to accelerate growth 
and to drive innovation globally. Consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and 
included in other marketing costs. Research and development costs were $771 million, $752 million and 
$719 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and are reported within selling, general and 
administrative expenses. 


Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 


Indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized and, as a result, are assessed for 
impairment at least annually, using either a qualitative or quantitative approach. We perform this annual 
assessment during our third quarter, or more frequently if circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
may not be recoverable. Where we use the qualitative assessment, first we determine if, based on 
qualitative factors, it is more likely than not that an impairment exists. Factors considered include 
macroeconomic conditions (including those related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict and a high interest rate 
and inflationary cost environment), industry and competitive conditions, legal and regulatory environment, 


74 


historical financial performance and significant changes in the brand or reporting unit. If the qualitative 
assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that an impairment exists, then a quantitative 
assessment is performed. 


In the quantitative assessment for indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill, an assessment is 
performed to determine the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset and the reporting unit, 
respectively. Estimated fair value is determined using discounted cash flows and requires an analysis of 
several estimates including future cash flows or income consistent with management’s strategic business 
plans, annual sales growth rates, perpetuity growth assumptions and the selection of assumptions 
underlying a discount rate (weighted-average cost of capital) based on market data available at the time. 
Significant management judgment is necessary to estimate the impact of competitive operating, 
macroeconomic and other factors (including those related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict and a high 
interest rate and inflationary cost environment) to estimate future levels of sales, operating profit or cash 
flows. All assumptions used in our impairment evaluations for indefinite-lived intangible assets and 
goodwill, such as forecasted growth rates (including perpetuity growth assumptions) and weighted- 
average cost of capital, are based on the best available market information and are consistent with our 
internal forecasts and operating plans. A deterioration in these assumptions could adversely impact our 
results. 


Amortizable intangible assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating 
or macroeconomic environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted future cash flows indicates 
impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on its discounted future 
cash flows. 


See Note 4 for further information. 
Other Significant Accounting Policies 
Our other significant accounting policies are disclosed as follows: 


* Basis of Presentation — Note 1 includes a description of our policies regarding use of estimates, 
basis of presentation and consolidation. 

* Income Taxes — Note 5. 

* Share-Based Compensation — Note 6. 

* Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans — Note 7. 

¢ Financial Instruments — Note 9. 

* Cash Equivalents — Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three 
months or less. 

* Inventories — Note 14. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is 
determined using the average; first-in, first-out (FIFO); or, in limited instances, last-in, first-out 
(LIFO) methods. 

* Property, Plant and Equipment — Note 14. Property, plant and equipment is recorded at historical 
cost. Depreciation is recognized on a straight-line basis over an asset’s estimated useful life. 
Construction in progress is not depreciated until ready for service. 

¢ Translation of Financial Statements of Foreign Subsidiaries — Financial statements of foreign 
subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using period-end exchange rates for assets and 
liabilities and average exchange rates for revenues and expenses. Adjustments resulting from 
translating net assets are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive 
loss within common shareholders’ equity as currency translation adjustment. 


75 


Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements - Not Yet Adopted 


In September 2022, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance to enhance the 
transparency of supplier finance programs to allow financial statement users to understand the effect on 
working capital, liquidity and cash flows. The new guidance requires disclosure of key terms of the 
program, including a description of the payment terms, payment timing and assets pledged as security or 
other forms of guarantees provided to the finance provider or intermediary. Other requirements include the 
disclosure of the amount that remains unpaid as of the end of the reporting period, a description of where 
these obligations are presented in the balance sheet and a rollforward of the obligation during the annual 
period. The guidance is effective in the first quarter of 2023, except for the rollforward, which is effective 
in 2024. Early adoption is permitted. We will adopt the guidance when effective. 


Note 3 — Restructuring and Impairment Charges 
2019 Multi-Year Productivity Plan 


We publicly announced a multi-year productivity plan on February 15, 2019 (2019 Productivity Plan) that 
will leverage new technology and business models to further simplify, harmonize and automate processes; 
re-engineer our go-to-market and information systems, including deploying the right automation for each 
market; and simplify our organization and optimize our manufacturing and supply chain footprint. To 
build on the successful implementation of the 2019 Productivity Plan, in the fourth quarter of 2022, we 
expanded and extended the plan through the end of 2028 to take advantage of additional opportunities 
within the initiatives described above. As a result, we expect to incur pre-tax charges of approximately 
$3.65 billion, including cash expenditures of approximately $2.9 billion. These pre-tax charges are 
expected to consist of approximately 55% of severance and other employee-related costs, 10% for asset 
impairments (all non-cash) resulting from plant closures and related actions and 35% for other costs 
associated with the implementation of our initiatives. 


The total plan pre-tax charges are expected to be incurred by division approximately as follows: 


FLNA QFNA PBNA LatAm Europe AMESA APAC _ Corporate 


Expected pre-tax charges 15 % 1% 25 % 10 % 25 % 5% 4% 15 % 


A summary of our 2019 Productivity Plan charges is as follows: 


2022 2021 2020 
Cost of sales $ 33 §$ 29 §$ 30 
Selling, general and administrative expenses 347 208 239 
Other pension and retiree medical benefits expense 31 10 20 
Total restructuring and impairment charges $ 411 $ 247 §$ 289 
After-tax amount e304 5 206 5 231 
Impact on net income attributable to PepsiCo per 
common share $ (0.24) $ (0.15) $ (0.17) 


76 


FLNA $ 


QFNA 
PBNA 
LatAm 
Europe 
AMESA 
APAC 
Corporate 


Other pension and retiree medical 
benefits income 


Total $ 


Severance and other employee costs 
Asset impairments 

Other costs 

Total 


Plan to Date 


2020 through 12/31/2022 


83 §$ 


210 
19 
226 
171 
343 
82 
77 
229 
1,357 


98 
1,455 


Plan to Date 


through 12/31/2022 


$ 


$ 


807 
190 
458 
1,455 


Severance and other employee costs primarily include severance and other termination benefits, as well as 
voluntary separation arrangements. Other costs primarily include costs associated with the implementation 


of our initiatives, including contract termination costs, consulting and other professional fees. 


A summary of our 2019 Productivity Plan is as follows: 


Liability as of December 28, 2019 
2020 restructuring charges 

Cash payments “ 

Non-cash charges and translation 
Liability as of December 26, 2020 
2021 restructuring charges 

Cash payments “ 

Non-cash charges and translation 
Liability as of December 25, 2021 
2022 restructuring charges 

Cash payments “ 

Non-cash charges and translation 


Liability as of December 31, 2022 


$ 


$ 


Severance 
and Other 
Employee Costs 


128 $ 
158 
(138) 
(26) 
122 
120 
(163) 
(15) 
64 
243 
(90) 
(29) 
188 §$ 


Asset 
Impairments 


33 


(33) 


$ 


Other Costs 


135 
(134) 


8 $ 


149 
289 
(255) 
(56) 
127 
247 
(256) 
(47) 
7 
All 
(224) 
(62) 
196 


(a) Excludes cash expenditures of $1 million in 2022 and $2 million in both 2021 and 2020, reported in the cash flow statement in pension 


and retiree medical plan contributions. 


Substantially all of the restructuring accrual at December 31, 2022 is expected to be paid by the end of 


2023. 
Other Productivity Initiatives 


There were no material charges related to other productivity and efficiency initiatives outside the scope of 


the 2019 Productivity Plan. 


77 


We regularly evaluate different productivity initiatives beyond the productivity plan and other initiatives 
described above. 


For information on additional impairment charges, see Notes 1 and 4 for brand portfolio impairment 
charges, other impairment charges and Russia-Ukraine conflict charges. 


Note 4 — Intangible Assets 


A summary of our amortizable intangible assets is as follows: 


2022 2021 2020 
Average 
Useful Life Accumulated Accumulated 

(Years) Gross Amortization Net Gross Amortization Net 
Acquired franchise rights “ 56-60 $ 837 $ (200) $ 637 $ 976 $ (187) $ 789 
Customer relationships 10-24 571 (237) 334 623 (227) 396 
Brands 20-40 1,097 (973) 124 SSI (989) 162 
Other identifiable intangibles 10-24 447 (265) 182 451 (260) 191 
Total $ 2,952. §$ (1,675) $ 1,277 $ 3,201 $ (1,663) $ 1,538 
Amortization expense $78 $ 91 $ 90 


(a) Decrease is primarily due to the write-off of our distribution rights for Bang energy drinks. See Note | for further information. 


Amortization is recognized on a straight-line basis over an intangible asset’s estimated useful life. 
Amortization of intangible assets for each of the next five years, based on existing intangible assets as of 
December 31, 2022 and using average 2022 foreign exchange rates, is expected to be as follows: 


Five-year projected amortization $ WW 76 =§ 4 = $ 67 = $ 64 


Depreciable and amortizable assets are evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the 
operating or macroeconomic environment. In these circumstances, if an evaluation of the undiscounted 
cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on 
discounted future cash flows. Useful lives are periodically evaluated to determine whether events or 
circumstances have occurred which indicate the need for revision. 


Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets 


In the first quarter of 2022, we discontinued or repositioned certain juice and dairy brands in Russia in our 
Europe division. As a result, we recognized pre-tax impairment charges (included in brand portfolio 
impairment charges) of $241 million ($193 million after-tax or $0.14 per share) in impairment of 
intangible assets, primarily related to indefinite-lived intangible assets in the year ended December 31, 
2022. See Note 1 for further information. 


78 


In the second quarter of 2022, macroeconomic factors, sanctions and other regulations as a result of the 
Russia-Ukraine conflict indicated a material deterioration of the significant inputs used to determine the 
fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets in Russia, primarily assumptions underlying the 
weighted-average cost of capital. These factors required us to perform a quantitative assessment, despite 
the absence of a material adverse impact on these assets’ financial performance (e.g., sales, operating 
profit, cash flows). The fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets in Russia was estimated using 
discounted cash flows under the income approach, which we consider to be a Level 3 measurement. We 
determined that the carrying value exceeds the fair value, with the decrease in the fair value primarily 
attributable to a significant increase in the weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the 
macroeconomic uncertainty in Russia. As a result of the quantitative assessment, we recorded pre-tax 
impairment charges of $1.2 billion ($958 million after-tax or $0.69 per share) in impairment of intangible 
assets, related to our juice and dairy brands in Russia in our Europe division, in the year ended December 
31, 2022. See Note | for further information. 


As discussed in Note 2, we perform our annual impairment assessment on indefinite-lived intangible 
assets during our third quarter. The annual impairment assessment on indefinite-lived intangible assets 
performed in the third quarter of 2022, based on best available market information and our internal 
forecasts and operating plans at the time, resulted in no impairment. 


In the fourth quarter of 2022, macroeconomic conditions including a high interest rate and inflationary 
cost environment, coupled with recent business performance, indicated a deterioration of the significant 
inputs used to determine the fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets in various markets, 
primarily assumptions underlying the weighted-average cost of capital and the impact of economic 
uncertainty on current and future financial performance, and required us to perform a quantitative 
assessment on certain assets. The fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets was estimated using 
discounted cash flows under the income approach, which we consider to be a Level 3 measurement. We 
determined that the carrying value exceeded the fair value, which reflects the increase in the weighted- 
average cost of capital as well as our most current estimates of future sales and their contributions to 
operating profit and expected future cash flows (including perpetuity growth assumptions). As a result of 
the quantitative assessment, we recorded pre-tax impairment charges of $1.6 billion ($1.3 billion after-tax 
or $0.94 per share) in impairment of intangible assets, primarily related to the SodaStream brand in our 
Europe division, in the year ended December 31, 2022. See Note 1 for further information. 


As of December 31, 2022, the estimated fair values of our indefinite-lived reacquired and acquired 
franchise rights recorded at PBNA exceeded their carrying values. However, there could be an impairment 
of the carrying value of PBNA’s reacquired and acquired franchise rights, as well as further impairment to 
the carrying value of the SodaStream brand and goodwill, if future sales and their contributions to 
operating profit do not achieve our expected future cash flows (including perpetuity growth assumptions) 
or if macroeconomic conditions result in a future increase in the weighted-average cost of capital used to 
estimate fair value. 


We did not recognize any impairment charges for goodwill in each of the years ended December 31, 2022, 
December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020. We did not recognize any impairment charges for indefinite- 
lived intangible assets in the year ended December 25, 2021. In 2020, we recognized pre-tax impairment 
charges of $42 million, primarily related to a coconut water brand in PBNA. 


For further information on our policies for indefinite-lived intangible assets, see Note 2. 


79 


The change in the book value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is as follows: 


Balance, Balance, Balance, 
Beginning Acquisitions/ Translation End of Acquisitions/ Translation End of 
2021 (Divestitures) and Other 2021 (Divestitures) Impairment and Other 2022 

FLNA © 
Goodwill $ 465 $ (8) $ 1 $ 458 $ — $ — $ (7) $ 451 
Brands 340 — = 340 a (88) (1) 251 
Total 805 (8) 1 798 — (88) (8) 702 
QFNA 
Goodwill 189 — — 189 — —_— _ 189 
Brands = _ = = = = = ex 
Total 189 —_ —_ 189 —_ —_— —_— 189 
PBNA® 
Goodwill 12,189 (216) 1 11,974 = <= (27) 11,947 
Reacquired franchise rights 7,107 =e = 7,107 aa = (46) 7,061 
Acquired franchise rights 1,536 1 1 1,538 230 — (10) 1,758 
Brands“ 3,122 (290) (324) 2,508 — — — 2,508 
Total 23,954 (505) (322) 23,127 230 — (83) 23,274 
LatAm 
Goodwill 458 _ (25) 433 — — 3 436 
Brands 108 (1) (7) 100 — (29) 4 75 
Total 566 (1) (32) 533 = (29) 7 511 
Europe 
Goodwill 3,806 (28) (78) 3,700 = — (54) 3,646 
Reacquired franchise rights ® 496 (23) (32) 441 = = (20) 421 
Acquired franchise rights 172 — (14) 158 — (1) (9) 148 
Brands)” 4,072 = 182 4,254 — (2,684) 94 1,664 
Total 8,546 (51) 58 8,553 _ (2,685) 11 5,879 
AMESA 
Goodwill 1,096 (2) (1) ‘1,063 14 = (62) 1,015 
Brands “ 214 = (9) 205 = (36) (13) 156 
Total 1,310 (2) (40) 1,268 14 (36) (75) 1,171 
APAC 
Goodwill 554 3 7 564 — — (46) 518 
Brands © 445 = 31 476 _ (172) (37) 267 
Total 999 3 38 1,040 — (172) (83) 785 
Total goodwill 18,757 (251) (125) ‘18,381 14 — (193) 18,202 
Total reacquired franchise rights 7,603 (23) (32) 7,548 = — (66) 7,482 
Total acquired franchise rights 1,708 1 (13) 1,696 230 (1) (19) 1,906 
Total brands 8,301 (291) (127) 7,883 — (3,009) 47 4,921 
Total $ 36,369 $ (564) $ (297) $35,508 $ 244 $ (3,010) $ (231) $ 32,511 


(a) Acquisitions/divestitures in 2021 primarily reflect purchase price allocation adjustments related to our acquisition of BFY Brands, Inc. 
(BFY Brands). Impairment in 2022 is related to a baked fruit convenient food brand. 

(b) Acquisitions/divestitures in 2021 primarily reflect assets reclassified as held for sale in connection with our Juice Transaction. See Note 
13 for further information. Acquisitions/divestitures in 2022 primarily reflect our agreement with Celsius to distribute Celsius energy 
drinks in the United States. See Note 9 for further information. 

(c) Translation and other in 2021 primarily reflects the allocation of the Rockstar brand to the respective divisions, which was finalized in 
2021 as part of purchase price allocation. 

(d) Impairment in 2022 is related to the sale of certain non-strategic brands. See Note | for further information. 

(e) Acquisitions/divestitures in 2021 primarily reflect assets reclassified as held for sale in connection with our Juice Transaction. See Note 
13 for further information. 


80 


(f) Translation and other primarily reflects the depreciation of the euro in 2021 and the depreciation of British pound and euro, partially 
offset by appreciation of the Russian ruble in 2022. 

(g) Impairment in 2022 is related to the SodaStream brand, the decrease in fair value as a result of the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the 
discontinuation or repositioning of certain juice and dairy brands in Russia. 

(h) Translation and other in 2021 reflects the allocation of the Rockstar brand from PBNA, which was finalized in 2021 as part of purchase 
price allocation, partially offset by the depreciation of the euro. 

(i) Impairment in 2022 is primarily related to certain juice brands from the Pioneer Foods acquisition. 

Gj) Impairment in 2022 is related to the Be & Cheery brand. 


Note 5 — Income Taxes 


The components of income before income taxes are as follows: 


2022 2021 2020 
United States $ 7,305 $ 3,740 $ 4,070 
Foreign 3,400 6,081 4,999 


$ 10,705 $ 9,821 $ 9,069 


The provision for income taxes consisted of the following: 


2022 2021 2020 
Current: 
U.S. Federal $ 1,137 §$ 702 §$ 715 
Foreign 1,027 955 932 
State 246 44 110 
2,410 1,701 Lisa 
Deferred: 
USS. Federal 7294 375 273 
Foreign (709) (14) (167) 
State 4 80 31 
(683) 441 137 


S127 8 2142, 8 1894 


A reconciliation of the U.S. Federal statutory tax rate to our annual tax rate is as follows: 


2022 2021 2020 
U.S. Federal statutory tax rate 21.0 % 21.0 % 21.0 % 
State income tax, net of U.S. Federal tax benefit 1.8 1.0 1.2 
Lower taxes on foreign results (1.5) (1.6) (0.8) 
One-time mandatory transition tax - TCJ Act 0.8 1.9 = 
Juice Transaction (2.4) — — 
Tax settlements (3.0) — — 
Other, net (0.6) (0.5) (0.5) 
Annual tax rate 16.1 % 21.8 % 20.9 % 


Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 


In 2022, we recorded $86 million ($0.06 per share) of net tax expense related to the TCJ Act as a result of 
correlating adjustments related to a partial audit settlement with the IRS for tax years 2014 through 2019. 
In 2021, we recorded $190 million ($0.14 per share) of net tax expense related to the TCJ Act as a result 
of adjustments related to the final assessment of the 2014 through 2016 IRS audit. There were no tax 
amounts recognized in 2020 related to the TCJ Act. 


81 


As of December 31, 2022, our mandatory transition tax liability was $2.6 billion, which must be paid 
through 2026 under the provisions of the TCJ Act. We reduced our liability through cash payments and 
application of tax overpayments by $309 million in 2022, $309 million in 2021 and $78 million in 2020. 
We currently expect to pay approximately $309 million of this liability in 2023. 


The TCJ Act also created a requirement that certain income earned by foreign subsidiaries, known as 
global intangible low-tax income (GILTI), must be included in the gross income of their U.S. shareholder. 
The FASB allows an accounting policy election of either recognizing deferred taxes for temporary 
differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or recognizing such taxes as a current-period 
expense when incurred. We elected to treat the tax effect of GILTI as a current-period expense when 
incurred. 


Other Tax Matters 


In 2021, we received a final assessment from the IRS audit for the tax years 2014 through 2016. The 
assessment included both agreed and unagreed issues. On October 29, 2021, we filed a formal written 
protest of the assessment and requested an appeals conference. As a result of the analysis of the 2014 
through 2016 final assessment, we remeasured all applicable reserves for uncertain tax positions for all 
years open under the statute of limitations, including any correlating adjustments impacting the mandatory 
transition tax liability under the TCJ Act, resulting in a net non-cash tax expense of $112 million ($0.08 
per share) in 2021. 


In 2022, we came to an agreement with the IRS to settle one of the issues assessed in the 2014 through 
2016 tax audit. The agreement covers tax years 2014 through 2019. As a result, we reduced our reserves 
for uncertain tax positions, including any correlating adjustments impacting the mandatory transition tax 
liability under the TCJ Act, resulting in a net non-cash tax benefit of $233 million ($0.17 per share) in 
2022. Tax years 2014 through 2019 remain under audit for other issues. 


On August 16, 2022, the “Inflation Reduction Act” (H.R. 5376) was signed into law in the United States. 
We do not currently expect the Inflation Reduction Act to have a material impact on our financial results, 
including on our annual estimated effective tax rate or on our liquidity. 


On May 19, 2019, a public referendum held in Switzerland passed the Federal Act on Tax Reform and 
AHV Financing (TRAF), effective January 1, 2020. The enactment of certain provisions of the TRAF 
resulted in adjustments to our deferred taxes. During 2020, we recorded a net tax benefit of $72 million 
($0.05 per share) related to the adoption of the TRAF in the Swiss Canton of Bern. 


82 


Deferred tax liabilities and assets are comprised of the following: 


Deferred tax liabilities 

Debt guarantee of wholly-owned subsidiary 
Property, plant and equipment 

Recapture of net operating losses 

Pension liabilities 

Right-of-use assets 

Investment in TBG 

Other 

Gross deferred tax liabilities 


Deferred tax assets 

Net carryforwards 

Intangible assets other than nondeductible goodwill 
Share-based compensation 

Retiree medical benefits 

Other employee-related benefits 
Deductible state tax and interest benefits 
Lease liabilities 

Capitalized research and development 
Other 

Gross deferred tax assets 

Valuation allowances 

Deferred tax assets, net 

Net deferred tax (assets)/liabilities 


A summary of our valuation allowance activity is as follows: 


Balance, beginning of year 
Provision 
Other (deductions)/additions 
Balance, end of year 


83 


150 
1,050 


9,421 
(5,013) 


4,408 


2022 2021 


842 


8,150 
(4,628) 


Spo22 


$ (71) $ 516 


2020 


$ 4,628 $ 4686 $ 3,599 
492 (9) 
(107) (49) 


$ 5,013 $ 4628 $ 4,686 


1,082 
5 


Reserves 


A number of years may elapse before a particular matter, for which we have established a reserve, is 
audited and finally resolved. The number of years with open tax audits varies depending on the tax 
jurisdiction. Our major taxing jurisdictions and the related open tax audits are as follows: 


Years Currently 


Jurisdiction Years Open to Audit Under Audit 
United States 2014-2021 2014-2019 
Mexico 2014-2021 2014-2017 
United Kingdom 2020-2021 None 

Canada (Domestic) 2016-2021 2016-2019 
Canada (International) 2010-2021 2010-2019 
Russia 2019-2021 None 


Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning strategies and transactions, 
including transfer pricing arrangements, available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. 
Significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We 
establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe 
that certain positions are subject to challenge and that we likely will not succeed. We adjust these reserves, 
as well as the related interest, in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax 
audit, new tax laws, relevant court cases or tax authority settlements. Settlement of any particular issue 
would usually require the use of cash. Favorable resolution would be recognized as a reduction to our 
annual tax rate in the year of resolution. 


As of December 31, 2022, the total gross amount of reserves for income taxes, reported in other liabilities, 
was $1.9 billion. We accrue interest related to reserves for income taxes in our provision for income taxes 
and any associated penalties are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. The gross 
amount of interest accrued, reported in other liabilities, was $292 million as of December 31, 2022, of 
which $4 million of tax benefit was recognized in 2022. The gross amount of interest accrued, reported in 
other liabilities, was $326 million as of December 25, 2021, of which $3 million of tax benefit was 
recognized in 2021. 


A reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 


2022 2021 
Balance, beginning of year $ 1,900 $ 1,621 
Additions for tax positions related to the current year 228 222 
Additions for tax positions from prior years 206 681 
Reductions for tax positions from prior years (357) (558) 
Settlement payments (53) (25) 
Statutes of limitations expiration (36) (39) 
Translation and other (21) (2) 
Balance, end of year $ 1,867 $ 1,900 


Carryforwards and Allowances 


Operating loss carryforwards totaling $32.2 billion as of December 31, 2022 are being carried forward in a 
number of foreign and state jurisdictions where we are permitted to use tax operating losses from prior 
periods to reduce future taxable income. These operating losses will expire as follows: $0.2 billion in 
2023, $27.6 billion between 2024 and 2041 and $4.4 billion may be carried forward indefinitely. We 


84 


establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets if, based on the available evidence, it is not more 
likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized. 


Undistributed International Earnings 


As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately $9 billion of undistributed international earnings. We 
intend to continue to reinvest $9 billion of earnings outside the United States for the foreseeable future and 
while future distribution of these earnings would not be subject to U.S. federal tax expense, no deferred 
tax liabilities with respect to items such as certain foreign exchange gains or losses, foreign withholding 
taxes or state taxes have been recognized. It is not practicable for us to determine the amount of 
unrecognized tax expense on these reinvested international earnings. 


Note 6 — Share-Based Compensation 


Our share-based compensation program is designed to attract and retain employees while also aligning 
employees’ interests with the interests of our shareholders. PepsiCo has granted stock options, RSUs, 
PSUs and long-term cash awards to employees under the shareholder-approved PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (LTIP). Executives who are awarded long-term incentives based on their performance may 
generally elect to receive their grant in the form of stock options or RSUs, or a combination thereof. 
Executives who elect stock options receive four stock options for every one RSU that would have 
otherwise been granted. Certain executive officers and other senior executives do not have a choice and 
are granted 66% PSUs and 34% long-term cash, each of which are subject to pre-established performance 
targets. 


The Company may use authorized and unissued shares to meet share requirements resulting from the 
exercise of stock options and the vesting of RSUs and PSUs. 


As of December 31, 2022, 37 million shares were available for future share-based compensation grants 
under the LTIP. 


The following table summarizes our total share-based compensation expense, which is primarily recorded 
in selling, general and administrative expenses, and excess tax benefits recognized: 


2022 2021 2020 


Share-based compensation expense - equity awards $ 343 $ 301 $ 264 
Share-based compensation expense - liability awards 30 20 11 
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges 3 = = 
Restructuring charges — 1 (1) 
Total $ 376 $ 322 $ 274 
Income tax benefits recognized in earnings related to share-based 

compensation $ 62 $ 57 $ 48 
Excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation $ 44 §$ 38 §$ 35 


As of December 31, 2022, there was $396 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to 
nonvested share-based compensation grants. This unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be 
recognized over a weighted-average period of two years. 


Method of Accounting and Our Assumptions 


The fair value of share-based award grants is amortized to expense over the vesting period, primarily three 
years. Awards to employees eligible for retirement prior to the award becoming fully vested are amortized 
to expense over the period through the date that the employee first becomes eligible to retire and is no 
longer required to provide service to earn the award. In addition, we use historical data to estimate 


85 


forfeiture rates and record share-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to 
vest. 


We do not backdate, reprice or grant share-based compensation awards retroactively. Repricing of awards 
would require shareholder approval under the LTIP. 


Stock Options 


A stock option permits the holder to purchase shares of PepsiCo common stock at a specified price. We 
account for our employee stock options under the fair value method of accounting using a Black-Scholes 
valuation model to measure stock option expense at the date of grant. All stock option grants have an 
exercise price equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant and generally have 
a 10-year term. 


Our weighted-average Black-Scholes fair value assumptions are as follows: 


2022 2021 2020 
Expected life 7 years 7 years 6 years 
Risk-free interest rate 1.9 % 1.1% 0.9 % 
Expected volatility 16 % 14% 14% 
Expected dividend yield 2.5 % 3.1% 3.4% 


The expected life is the period over which our employee groups are expected to hold their options. It is 
based on our historical experience with similar grants. The risk-free interest rate is based on the expected 
U.S. Treasury rate over the expected life. Volatility reflects movements in our stock price over the most 
recent historical period equivalent to the expected life. Dividend yield is estimated over the expected life 
based on our stated dividend policy and forecasts of net income, share repurchases and stock price. 


A summary of our stock option activity for the year ended December 31, 2022 is as follows: 


Weighted- 
Average 
Weighted- Contractual 
Average Life Aggregate 
Exercise Remaining _ Intrinsic 
Options” Price (years) Value® 
Outstanding at December 25, 2021 10,142 §$ 110.54 
Granted 2,422 §$ 163.54 
Exercised (1,578) $ 87.33 
Forfeited/expired (482) $ 146.13 
Outstanding at December 31, 2022 10,504 $ 124.63 6.08 $ 588,549 
Exercisable at December 31, 2022 4,892 §$ 101.02 3.50 $ 389,547 
Expected to vest as of December 31, 2022 5,267 §$ 144.58 8.29 $ 190,040 


(a) In thousands. 


86 


Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units 


Each RSU represents our obligation to deliver to the holder one share of PepsiCo common stock when the 
award vests at the end of the service period. PSUs are awards pursuant to which a number of shares are 
delivered to the holder upon vesting at the end of the service period based on PepsiCo’s performance 
against specified financial performance metrics. The number of shares may be increased to the maximum 
or reduced to the minimum threshold based on the results of these performance metrics in accordance with 
the terms established at the time of the award. During the vesting period, RSUs and PSUs accrue dividend 
equivalents that pay out in cash (without interest) if and when the applicable RSU or PSU vests and 
becomes payable. 


The fair value of RSUs and PSUs are measured at the market price of the Company’s stock on the date of 
grant. 


A summary of our RSU and PSU activity for the year ended December 31, 2022 is as follows: 


Weighted- 
Average 
Weighted- Contractual 
Average Life Aggregate 


Grant-Date Remaining Intrinsic 
RSUs/PSUs® Fair Value (years) Value” 


Outstanding at December 25, 2021 5,977 $ 127.45 

Granted 2,263 $ 163.02 

Converted (2,051) $ 120.03 

Forfeited (475) $ 141.64 
Outstanding at December 31, 2022 ” 5,714 $ 143.02 1.24 $1,032,222 
Expected to vest as of December 31, 2022 “ 5,979 $ 141.94 1.17 $1,080,138 


(a) In thousands. Outstanding awards are disclosed at target. 

(b) The outstanding PSUs for which the vesting period has not ended as of December 31, 2022, at the threshold, target and maximum award 
levels were zero, | million and 2 million, respectively. 

(c) Represents the number of outstanding awards expected to vest, including estimated performance adjustments on all outstanding PSUs as 
of December 31, 2022. 


Long-Term Cash 
Certain executive officers and other senior executives were granted long-term cash awards for which final 


payout is based on PepsiCo’s Total Shareholder Return relative to a specific set of peer companies and 
achievement of a specified performance target over a three-year performance period. 


Long-term cash awards that qualify as liability awards under share-based compensation guidance are 
valued through the end of the performance period on a mark-to-market basis using the Monte Carlo 
simulation model. 


87 


A summary of our long-term cash activity for the year ended December 31, 2022 is as follows: 


Contractual 
Long-Term Balance Life 
Cash Sheet Date Remaining 
Award® Fair Value” (years) 
Outstanding at December 25, 2021 $ 45,792 
Granted 18,182 
Vested (11,364) 
Forfeited (2,356) 
Outstanding at December 31, 2022 © $ 50,254 §$ 68,167 1.17 
Expected to vest as of December 31, 2022 $ 46,841 $ 65,835 1.15 


(a) In thousands, disclosed at target. 

(b) In thousands, based on the most recent valuation as of December 31, 2022. 

(c) The outstanding awards for which the vesting period has not ended as of December 31, 2022, at the threshold, target and maximum 
award levels based on the achievement of its market conditions were zero, $50 million and $101 million, respectively. 


Other Share-Based Compensation Data 


The following is a summary of other share-based compensation data: 


2022 2021 2020 

Stock Options 

Total number of options granted “ 2,422 2,157 1,847 
Weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted $ 19.72 §$ 9.88 $ 8.31 
Total intrinsic value of options exercised $ 134,580 $ 153,306 $ 155,096 
Total grant-date fair value of options vested $ 9,661 $ 10,605 $ 8,652 
RSUs/PSUs 

Total number of RSUs/PSUs granted “ 2,263 2,636 2,496 
Weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSUs/PSUs granted $ 163.02 $ 131.81 $ 131.21 
Total intrinsic value of RSUs/PSUs converted “ $ 329,705 $ 273,878 $ 303,165 
Total grant-date fair value of RSUs/PSUs vested $ 196,649 $ 198,469 $ 235,523 


(a) In thousands. 


As of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, there were approximately 307,000 and 299,000 
outstanding awards, respectively, consisting primarily of phantom stock units that were granted under the 
PepsiCo Director Deferral Program and will be settled in shares of PepsiCo common stock pursuant to the 
LTIP at the end of the applicable deferral period, not included in the tables above. 


Note 7 — Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans 


Effective December 31, 2022, we merged two U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans, PepsiCo 
Employees Retirement Plan I (Plan I), mostly inactive participants, and PepsiCo Employees Retirement 
Plan A (Plan A), mostly active participants, with Plan I remaining. The accrued benefits offered to the 
plans’ participants were unchanged. The merger was made to provide additional flexibility in evaluating 
opportunities to reduce risk and volatility. Actuarial gains and losses of the merged plan will be amortized 
over the average remaining life expectancy of participants. There is no material impact to pre-tax pension 
benefits expense from this merger. 


In 2022, we transferred pension and retiree medical obligations of $145 million and related assets to TBG 
in connection with the Juice Transaction. See Note 13 for further information. 


88 


In 2021, we adopted a change to the Canadian defined benefit plans to freeze pension accruals for salaried 
participants, effective January 1, 2024, and to close the hourly plan to new non-union employees hired on 
or after January 1, 2022. After the effective date, all salaried participants receive an employer contribution 
to the defined contribution plan based on age and years of service regardless of employee contribution and 
the opportunity to receive employer contributions to match employee contributions up to defined limits. 
We also adopted a change to the U.K. defined benefit plan to freeze pension accruals for all participants 
effective March 31, 2022. After the effective date, participants have the opportunity to receive employer 
contributions to match employee contributions up to defined limits. Pre-tax pension benefits expense will 
decrease after the effective dates, partially offset by contributions to defined contribution plans. 


In 2021, we adopted a change to the U.S. qualified defined benefit plans to transfer certain participants 
from Plan A to Plan I, effective January 1, 2022. The accrued benefits offered to the plans’ participants 
were unchanged. There was no material impact to pre-tax pension benefits expense from this transaction. 


In 2020, we adopted an amendment to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans to freeze benefit accruals for 
salaried participants, effective December 31, 2025. Since 2011, salaried new hires are not eligible to 
participate in the defined benefit plan. After the effective date, all salaried participants receive an 
employer contribution to the 401(k) savings plan based on age and years of service regardless of employee 
contribution and the opportunity to receive employer contributions to match employee contributions up to 
defined limits. As a result of this amendment, pre-tax pension benefits expense decreased $70 million in 
2021, primarily impacting corporate unallocated expenses. 


In 2020, we approved an amendment to reorganize the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans that 
resulted in the transfer of certain participants from Plan A to Plan I and to a newly created plan, PepsiCo 
Employees Retirement Hourly Plan (Plan H), effective January 1, 2021. The accrued benefits offered to 
the plans’ participants were unchanged. The reorganization facilitated a more targeted investment strategy 
and provided additional flexibility in evaluating opportunities to reduce risk and volatility. There was no 
material impact to pre-tax pension benefits expense as a result of this reorganization. 


In 2020, we adopted an amendment, effective January 1, 2021, to enhance the pay credit benefits of 
certain participants in Plan H. As a result of this amendment, pre-tax pension benefits expense increased 
$45 million in 2021, primarily impacting service cost expense. 


Gains and losses resulting from actual experience differing from our assumptions, including the difference 
between the actual and expected return on plan assets, as well as changes in our assumptions, are 
determined at each measurement date. These differences are recognized as a component of net gain or loss 
in accumulated other comprehensive loss within common shareholders’ equity. If this net accumulated 
gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or plan obligations, a 
portion of the net gain or loss is included in other pension and retiree medical benefits (expense)/income 
for the following year based upon the average remaining service life for participants in Plan A 
(approximately 9 years), Plan H (approximately 11 years) and retiree medical (approximately 9 years), and 
the remaining life expectancy for participants in Plan I (approximately 27 years). In 2023, we expect the 
average remaining service life for participants in Plan H to be approximately 11 years and the average 
remaining life expectancy for participants in Plan I to be approximately 26 years. 


The cost or benefit of plan changes that increase or decrease benefits for prior employee service (prior 
service cost/(credit)) is included in other pension and retiree medical benefits (expense)/income on a 
straight-line basis over the average remaining service life for participants in Plan H, and the remaining life 
expectancy for participants in Plan I, except that prior service cost/(credit) for salaried participants subject 
to the freeze is amortized on a straight-line basis over the period up to the effective date of the freeze. 


89 


Selected financial information for our pension and retiree medical plans is as follows: 


Change in projected benefit obligation 
Obligation at beginning of year 
Service cost 

Interest cost 

Plan amendments 

Participant contributions 

Experience gain 

Benefit payments 
Settlement/curtailment 

Special termination benefits 

Other, including foreign currency adjustment 
Obligation at end of year 


Change in fair value of plan assets 

Fair value at beginning of year 

Actual return on plan assets 

Employer contributions/funding 

Participant contributions 

Benefit payments 

Settlement 

Other, including foreign currency adjustment 
Fair value at end of year 

Funded status 


Amounts recognized 
Other assets 

Other current liabilities 
Other liabilities 

Net amount recognized 


Pension Retiree Medical 
U.S. International 

2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 
$ 16,216 $ 16,753 $ 4,175 $ 4,430 954 $ 1,006 
487 518 64 104 37 33 
434 324 90 74 19 15 
10 23 —_— 3 — _— 

_ _ 2 3 — = 
(3,989) (215) (1,284) (178) (198) (17) 
(412) (976) (127) (106) (81) (83) 
(1,109) (220) (5) (99) (14) — 
37 9 — — — —— 
(131) — (312) (56) (3) —_ 


$ 15,904 $ 15,465 $ 4,624 $ 4,303 $ 299 $ 315 


(3,337) 1,052 (1,026) 387 (68) 20 
235 580 101 158 48 47 
(412) (976) (127) (106) (81) (83) 
(1,117) (217) (5) (52) = = 
(125) = (374) (69) (2) = 


$ 225 $ 692 $ 708 $ 564 §$ — § = 
(56) (48) (7) (1) (54) (57) 
(564) (956) (109) (114) (464) (598) 


Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss (pre-tax) 


Net loss/(gain) 
Prior service credit 
Total 


$ 3,337 $ 3,550 $ 571 $ 696 §$ (320) $ (220) 


Changes recognized in net (gain)Aoss included in other comprehensive loss 


Net loss/(gain) arising in current year 
Amortization and settlement recognition 
Foreign currency translation gain 

Total 


Accumulated benefit obligation at end of year 


$ 254 $ (301) $ (40) $ (355) $ (114) $ (22) 


(467) (265) (30) (95) 14 14 
= — (55) 3) — = 
$ (213) $ (566) $ (125) $ (453) $ (100) $ (8) 


$ 11,104 $ 15,489 $ 2,483 $ 4,021 


The net loss arising in the current year is primarily attributable to a decrease in the actual return on plan 
assets offset by the impact of higher discount rates. 


The amount we report in operating profit as pension and retiree medical cost is service cost, which is the 


90 


value of benefits earned by employees for working during the year. 


The amounts we report below operating profit as pension and retiree medical cost consist of the following 
components: 

¢ Interest cost is the accrued interest on the projected benefit obligation due to the passage of time. 

* Expected return on plan assets is the long-term return we expect to earn on plan investments for 
our funded plans that will be used to settle future benefit obligations. 

« Amortization of prior service cost/(credit) represents the recognition in the income statement of 
benefit changes resulting from plan amendments. 

* Amortization of net loss/(gain) represents the recognition in the income statement of changes in the 
amount of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation based on changes in assumptions and 
actual experience. 

¢ Settlement/curtailment loss/(gain) represents the result of actions that effectively eliminate all or a 
portion of related projected benefit obligations. Settlements are triggered when payouts to settle the 
projected benefit obligation of a plan due to lump sums or other events exceed the total of annual 
service and interest cost. Settlements are recognized when actions are irrevocable and we are 
relieved of the primary responsibility and risk for projected benefit obligations. Lump sum payouts 
are generally higher when interest rates are lower. Curtailments are recognized when events such 
as plant closures, the sale of a business, or plan changes result in a significant reduction of future 
service or benefits. Curtailment losses are recognized when an event is probable and estimable, 
while curtailment gains are recognized when an event has occurred (when the related employees 
terminate or an amendment is adopted). 

¢ Special termination benefits are the additional benefits offered to employees upon departure due to 
actions such as restructuring. 


The components of total pension and retiree medical benefit costs are as follows: 


Pension Retiree Medical 
US. International 
2022 =. 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 

Service cost $ 487 $ 518 $ 434 $ 64 $ 104 $ 86 $ 37 $ 33 $ 25 
Other pension and retiree medical benefits (income)/expense: 
Interest cost $434 553245 314355 $) 90) 5 745 $5850) 19) SS) S25 
Expected return on plan assets (912) (970) (929) (218) (231) (202) (16) (15) (16) 
Amortization of prior service (credit)/cost (28) (31) 12 (1) (2) — (8) (11) (12) 
Amortization of net losses/(gains) 149 224 196 29 77 61 (14) (14) (23) 
Settlement/curtailment losses/(gains) 322 40 213 1 (11) 19 (16) — = 
Special termination benefits 37 9 19 
Total other pension and retiree medical benefits 

(income)/expense $ 2 $(404) $ (54) $ (9) $ (93) $ (37) $ (35) $ (25) $ (26) 
Total $ 489 $ 114 $ 380 $ (5) $ 11 $ 49 $ 2 $ 8 $ () 


(a) In 2022 and 2020, U.S. includes a settlement charge of $318 million ($246 million after-tax or $0.18 per share) and $205 million 
($158 million after-tax or $0.11 per share), respectively, related to lump sum distributions exceeding the total of annual service and 
interest cost. 


91 


The following table provides the weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit 
cost and projected benefit obligation for our pension and retiree medical plans: 


Pension Retiree Medical 
US. International 

2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 
Net Periodic Benefit Cost 
Service cost discount rate 3.1% 2.6 % 3.4% 4.2% 2.7% 3.2% 2.8 % 2.3 % 3.2% 
Interest cost discount rate © 3.1% 2.0 % 2.9 % 2.3 % 1.7% 2.4% 2.1% 1.6 % 2.6 % 
Expected return on plan assets ” 6.7 % 6.4% 6.8 % 5.3 % 5.3% 5.6 % 5.7% 54% 58% 
Rate of salary increases 3.0 % 3.0 % 3.1% 3.3 % 3.3 % Sho) 0 
Projected Benefit Obligation 
Discount rate 5.4% 2.9 % 2.5% 5.3% 24% 2.0 % 5.4% 2.7% 2.3% 
Rate of salary increases 3.2 % 3.0 % 3.0 % 4.2% 3.3% 3.3% 


(a) 2022 U.S. rates reflect remeasurement of a U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan in the second quarter of 2022. 


The following table provides selected information about plans with accumulated benefit obligation and 
total projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets: 


Pension Retiree Medical 
US. International 
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 
Selected information for plans with accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets 
Obligation for service to date $ (584) $ (1,499) $ (158) $ (127) 
Fair value of plan assets $ — $ 705 $ 129 $ 102 
Selected information for plans with projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets 
Benefit obligation $ (620) $ (1,709) $ (273) $ (286) $ (714) $ (954) 
Fair value of plan assets $ — $ 705 $ 157 $ 171 $ 196 $ 299 


Of the total projected pension benefit obligation as of December 31, 2022, approximately $625 million 
relates to plans that we do not fund because the funding of such plans does not receive favorable tax 
treatment. 


Future Benefit Payments 


Our estimated future benefit payments are as follows: 


2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 - 2032 
Pension $ 945 $§$ 1,070 $ 910 $ 955 $ 975 $ 5,100 
Retiree medical ® $ 90 $ 85 §$ 80 $§$ 80 $§$ 75 $ 330 


(a) Expected future benefit payments for our retiree medical plans do not reflect any estimated subsidies expected to be received under the 
2003 Medicare Act. Subsidies are expected to be approximately $1 million for each of the years from 2023 through 2027 and 
approximately $3 million in total for 2028 through 2032. 


These future benefit payments to beneficiaries include payments from both funded and unfunded plans. 


92 


Funding 


Contributions to our pension and retiree medical plans were as follows: 


Pension Retiree Medical 
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 
Discretionary © $ 160 $ ws 339 § — $ — § a 
Non-discretionary 176 213 168 48 47 dD 
Total $ 336 $ 738 $ 507_ $ 48 $ 47_ $ 5553 


(a) Includes $150 million contribution in 2022, $500 million contribution in 2021 and $325 million contribution in 2020 to fund our U.S. 
qualified defined benefit plans. 

We made a discretionary contribution of $125 million to a U.S. qualified defined benefit plan in January 

2023 and expect to make an additional contribution of $125 million in the third quarter of 2023. In 

addition, in 2023, we expect to make non-discretionary contributions of approximately $90 million to our 

U.S. and international pension benefit plans and contributions of approximately $55 million for retiree 

medical benefits. 


We also regularly evaluate opportunities to reduce risk and volatility associated with our pension and 
retiree medical plans. 


Plan Assets 


Our pension plan investment strategy includes the use of actively managed accounts and is reviewed 
periodically in conjunction with plan obligations, an evaluation of market conditions, tolerance for risk 
and cash requirements for benefit payments. This strategy is also applicable to funds held for the retiree 
medical plans. Our investment objective includes ensuring that funds are available to meet the plans’ 
benefit obligations when they become due. Assets contributed to our pension plans are no longer 
controlled by us, but become the property of our individual pension plans. However, we are indirectly 
impacted by changes in these plan assets as compared to changes in our projected obligations. Our overall 
investment policy is to prudently invest plan assets in a well-diversified portfolio of equity and high- 
quality debt securities and real estate to achieve our long-term return expectations. Our investment policy 
also permits the use of derivative instruments, such as futures and forward contracts, to reduce interest rate 
and foreign currency risks. Futures contracts represent commitments to purchase or sell securities at a 
future date and at a specified price. Forward contracts consist of currency forwards. 


For 2023 and 2022, our expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets is 7.4% and 6.7%, 
respectively. Our target investment allocations for U.S. plan assets for both 2023 and 2022 are as follows: 


Fixed income 56 % 
USS. equity 22 % 
International equity 18 % 
Real estate 4% 


Actual investment allocations may vary from our target investment allocations due to prevailing market 
conditions. We regularly review our actual investment allocations and periodically rebalance our 
investments. 


The expected return on plan assets is based on our investment strategy and our expectations for long-term 
rates of return by asset class, taking into account volatility and correlation among asset classes and our 
historical experience. We also review current levels of interest rates and inflation to assess the 
reasonableness of the long-term rates. We evaluate our expected return assumptions annually to ensure 
that they are reasonable. To calculate the expected return on plan assets, our market-related value of assets 
for fixed income is the actual fair value. For all other asset categories, such as equity securities, we use a 


93 


method that recognizes investment gains or losses (the difference between the expected and actual return 
based on the market-related value of assets) over a five-year period. This has the effect of reducing year- 
to-year volatility. 


Plan assets measured at fair value as of year-end 2022 and 2021 are categorized consistently by Level 1 
(quoted prices in active markets for identical assets), Level 2 (significant other observable inputs) and 
Level 3 (significant unobservable inputs) in both years and are as follows: 


Fair Value 
Hierarchy Level 2022 2021 
U.S. plan assets 
Equity securities, including preferred stock 1 $ 4,387 $ 6,387 
Government securities © 2 1,751 2,523 
Corporate bonds “ 2 4,245 6,210 
Mortgage-backed securities 2 142 199 
Contracts with insurance companies 3 9 9 
Cash and cash equivalents © i, 2 157 352 
Sub-total U.S. plan assets 10,691 15,680 
Real estate commingled funds measured at net asset value 533 478 
Dividends and interest receivable, net of payables 120 45 
Total U.S. plan assets $ 11,344 $ 16,203 
International plan assets 
Equity securities 1 $ 1,291 $ 25232) 
Government securities 2 736 1,053 
Corporate bonds “ 2 254 400 
Fixed income commingled funds 1 628 632 
Contracts with insurance companies 3 27 43 
Cash and cash equivalents 1 75 34 
Sub-total international plan assets 3,011 4,394 
Real estate commingled funds measured at net asset value ® 173 221 
Dividends and interest receivable 11 9 
Total international plan assets $ 3,195 $ 4,624 


(a) 
(b) 


(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 


(g) 


Includes $196 million and $299 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively, of retiree medical plan assets that are restricted for purposes of providing 
health benefits for U.S. retirees and their beneficiaries. 

Invested in U.S. and international common stock and commingled funds, and the preferred stock portfolio was invested in domestic and 
international corporate preferred stock investments. The common and preferred stock investments are based on quoted prices in active markets. 
The commingled funds are based on the published price of the fund and include one large-cap fund that represents 10% and 11% of total U.S. 
plan assets for 2022 and 2021, respectively. 

These investments are based on quoted bid prices for comparable securities in the marketplace and broker/dealer quotes in active markets. 
Corporate bonds of U.S.-based companies represents 32% of total U.S. plan assets for 2022 and 2021. 

Based on the fair value of the contracts as determined by the insurance companies using inputs that are not observable. The changes in Level 3 
amounts were not significant in the years ended December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021. 

Includes Level 1 assets of $216 million for 2021 and Level 2 assets of $157 million and $136 million for 2022 and 2021, respectively. 

The real estate commingled funds include investments in limited partnerships. These funds are based on the net asset value of the appraised value 
of investments owned by these funds as determined by independent third parties using inputs that are not observable. The majority of the funds 
are redeemable quarterly subject to availability of cash and have notice periods ranging from 45 to 90 days. 

Based on the published price of the fund. 


94 


Retiree Medical Cost Trend Rates 


The assumed health care cost trend rates are as follows: 


2023 2022 
Average increase assumed 6% 6% 
Ultimate projected increase 4% 4% 
Year of ultimate projected increase 2046 2046 


These assumed health care cost trend rates have an impact on the retiree medical plan expense and 
obligation, however the cap on our share of retiree medical costs limits the impact. 


Savings Plan 


Certain U.S. employees are eligible to participate in a 401(k) savings plan, which is a voluntary defined 
contribution plan. The plan is designed to help employees accumulate savings for retirement and we make 
Company matching contributions for certain employees on a portion of employee contributions based on 
years of service. 


Certain U.S. salaried employees, who are not eligible to participate in a defined benefit pension plan, are 
also eligible to receive an employer contribution based on age and years of service regardless of employee 
contribution. 


In 2022, 2021 and 2020, our total Company contributions were $283 million, $246 million and $225 
million, respectively. 


Note 8 — Debt Obligations 


The following table summarizes our debt obligations: 


2022 2021 
Short-term debt obligations” 


Current maturities of long-term debt $ 3,096 $ 3,872 
Commercial paper (0.1% and 0.1%) — 400 
Other borrowings (15.0% and 2.2%) 318 36 


S_ 3414 S 4308 
Long-term debt obligations ” 


Notes due 2022 (2.4%) $ — $ 3,868 
Notes due 2023 (1.7% and 1.5%) 3,094 3,019 
Notes due 2024 (2.2% and 2.1%) 2,867 2,986 
Notes due 2025 (2.7% and 2.7%) 3,193 3,230 
Notes due 2026 (3.1% and 3.2%) 2,396 2,450 
Notes due 2027 (2.5% and 2.4% ) 2,523 2,554 
Notes due 2028-2060 (2.8% and 2.6%) 24,652 21,759 
Other, due 2022-2028 (1.3% and 1.3%) 28 32 

38,753 39,898 
Less: current maturities of long-term debt obligations 3,096 3,872 
Total $ 35,657 $ 36,026 


(a) Amounts are shown net of unamortized net discounts of $227 million and $233 million for 2022 and 2021, respectively. 
(b) The interest rates presented reflect weighted-average effective interest rates at year-end. See Note 9 for further information regarding our 
interest rate derivative instruments. 


As of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, our international debt of $304 million and $38 million, 
respectively, was related to borrowings from external parties, including various lines of credit. These lines 


95 


of credit are subject to normal banking terms and conditions and are fully committed at least to the extent 
of our borrowings. 


In 2022, we issued the following senior notes: 


Interest Rate Maturity Date Principal Amount™ 
3.200 % July 2029 £ 300 © 
3.550 % July 2034 £ 450 ” 
3.600 % February 2028 $ 750 
3.900 % July 2032 $ 1,250 
4.200 % July 2052 $ 500 


(a) Excludes debt issuance costs, discounts and premiums. 
(b) These notes, issued in British pounds, were designated as net investment hedges to partially offset the effects of foreign currency on our 
investments in certain of our foreign subsidiaries. 

The net proceeds from the issuances of the above notes were used for general corporate purposes, 
including the repayment of commercial paper, except for an amount equivalent to the net proceeds from 
our 3.900% senior notes due 2032 that will be allocated to fund, in whole or in part, eligible green projects 
in the categories of investments in recycling and sustainable plastics and packaging, decarbonizing our 
operations and supply chain, water sustainability, and regenerative agriculture, which promote our 
selected Sustainable Development Goals, as defined by the United Nations. 


In 2022, we entered into a new five-year unsecured revolving credit agreement (Five-Year Credit 
Agreement), which expires on May 27, 2027. The Five-Year Credit Agreement enables us and our 
borrowing subsidiaries to borrow up to $3.8 billion in U.S. dollars and/or euros, including a $0.75 billion 
swing line subfacility for euro-denominated borrowings permitted to be borrowed on a same-day basis, 
subject to customary terms and conditions. We may request that commitments under this agreement be 
increased up to $4.5 billion (or the equivalent amount in euros). Additionally, we may, once a year, 
request renewal of the agreement for an additional one-year period. The Five-Year Credit Agreement 
replaced our $3.75 billion five-year credit agreement, dated as of May 28, 2021. 


Also in 2022, we entered into a new 364-day unsecured revolving credit agreement (364-Day Credit 
Agreement), which expires on May 26, 2023. The 364-Day Credit Agreement enables us and our 
borrowing subsidiaries to borrow up to $3.8 billion in U.S. dollars and/or euros, subject to customary 
terms and conditions. We may request that commitments under this agreement be increased up to 
$4.5 billion (or the equivalent amount in euros). We may request renewal of this facility for an additional 
364-day period or convert any amounts outstanding into a term loan for a period of up to one year, which 
term loan would mature no later than the anniversary of the then effective termination date. The 364-Day 
Credit Agreement replaced our $3.75 billion 364-day credit agreement, dated as of May 28, 2021. 


Funds borrowed under the Five-Year Credit Agreement and the 364-Day Credit Agreement may be used 
for general corporate purposes. Subject to certain conditions, we may borrow, prepay and reborrow 
amounts under these agreements. As of December 31, 2022, there were no outstanding borrowings under 
the Five-Year Credit Agreement or the 364-Day Credit Agreement. 


96 


In 2022, we paid $750 million to redeem all $750 million outstanding principal amount of our 2.25% 
senior notes due May 2022, we paid $800 million to redeem all $800 million outstanding principal amount 
of our 3.10% senior notes due July 2022 and we paid $154 million to redeem all $133 million outstanding 
principal amount of our subsidiary, Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc.’s 7.00% senior notes 
due March 2029 and 5.50% notes due May 2035. Additionally, we deposited $102 million of U.S. 
government securities with the Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, in legal defeasance of $94 million 
outstanding principal amount of certain notes originally issued by our subsidiary, The Quaker Oats 
Company (Quaker notes). PepsiCo will be deemed to have paid and discharged the Quaker notes on April 
12, 2023. 


In 2021, we completed cash tender offers to redeem $4.1 billion principal amount of certain notes, with 
maturity dates ranging from May 2035 to March 2060 and interest rates ranging from 3.375% to 5.500%, 
for $4.8 billion in cash. As a result of the cash tender offers, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $842 million 
($677 million after-tax or $0.49 per share) to net interest expense and other, primarily representing the 
tender price paid over the carrying value of the tendered notes and loss on treasury rate locks used to 
mitigate the interest rate risk on the cash tender offers. 


Also in 2021, we paid $750 million to redeem all $750 million outstanding principal amount of our 1.70% 
senior notes due 2021 and terminated the associated interest rate swap with a notional amount of 
$250 million. 


In 2020, we paid $1.1 billion to redeem all $1.1 billion outstanding principal amount of our 2.15% senior 
notes due 2020 and terminated associated interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $0.8 billion. 


Also in 2020, one of our international consolidated subsidiaries borrowed 21.7 billion South African rand, 
or approximately $1.3 billion, from our two unsecured bridge loan facilities (Bridge Loan Facilities) to 
fund our acquisition of Pioneer Foods. These borrowings were fully repaid in April 2020 and no further 
borrowings under these Bridge Loan Facilities are permitted. 


Note 9 — Financial Instruments 


Derivatives and Hedging 
We are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in: 


* commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy; 
* foreign exchange rates and currency restrictions; and 
* interest rates. 


In the normal course of business, we manage commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate risks 
through a variety of strategies, including productivity initiatives, global purchasing programs and hedging. 
Ongoing productivity initiatives involve the identification and effective implementation of meaningful 
cost-saving opportunities or efficiencies, including the use of derivatives. We do not use derivative 
instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Our global purchasing programs include fixed-price 
contracts and purchase orders and pricing agreements. 


Our hedging strategies include the use of derivatives and, in the case of our net investment hedges, debt 
instruments. Certain derivatives are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges and qualify for 
hedge accounting treatment, while others do not qualify and are marked to market through earnings. The 
accounting for qualifying hedges allows changes in a hedging instrument’s fair value to offset 
corresponding changes in the hedged item in the same reporting period that the hedged item impacts 
earnings. Gains or losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in accumulated other 
comprehensive loss within common shareholders’ equity and reclassified to our income statement when 
the hedged transaction affects earnings. If it becomes probable that the hedged transaction will not occur, 


97 


we immediately recognize the related hedging gains or losses in earnings; such gains or losses reclassified 
during the year ended December 31, 2022 were not material. 


Cash flows from derivatives used to manage commodity price, foreign exchange or interest rate risks are 
classified as operating activities in the cash flow statement. We classify both the earnings and cash flow 
impact from these derivatives consistent with the underlying hedged item. 


Credit Risk 


We perform assessments of our counterparty credit risk regularly, including reviewing netting agreements, 
if any, and a review of credit ratings, credit default swap rates and potential nonperformance of the 
counterparty. Based on our most recent assessment of our counterparty credit risk, we consider this risk to 
be low. In addition, we enter into derivative contracts with a variety of financial institutions that we 
believe are creditworthy in order to reduce our concentration of credit risk. 


Certain of our agreements with our counterparties require us to post full collateral on derivative 
instruments in a net liability position if our credit rating is at A2 (Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.) or A 
(S&P Global Ratings) and we have been placed on credit watch for possible downgrade or if our credit 
rating falls below either of these levels. The fair value of all derivative instruments with credit-risk-related 
contingent features that were in a net liability position as of December 31, 2022 was $235 million. We 
have posted no collateral under these contracts and no credit-risk-related contingent features were 
triggered as of December 31, 2022. 


Commodity Prices 


We are subject to commodity price risk because our ability to recover increased costs through higher 
pricing may be limited in the competitive environment in which we operate. This risk is managed through 
the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, which 
primarily include swaps and futures. In addition, risk to our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated 
through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. We use derivatives, with terms of no more 
than three years, to hedge price fluctuations related to a portion of our anticipated commodity purchases, 
primarily for agricultural products, energy and metals. Derivatives used to hedge commodity price risk 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are marked to market each period with the resulting 
gains and losses recorded in corporate unallocated expenses as either cost of sales or selling, general and 
administrative expenses, depending on the underlying commodity. These gains and losses are 
subsequently reflected in division results when the divisions recognize the cost of the underlying 
commodity in operating profit. 


Our commodity derivatives had a total notional value of $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $1.6 
billion as of December 25, 2021. 


Foreign Exchange 


We are exposed to foreign exchange risks in the international markets in which our products are made, 
manufactured, distributed or sold. Additionally, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk from net 
investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency purchases and foreign currency assets and liabilities 
created in the normal course of business. We manage this risk through sourcing purchases from local 
suppliers, negotiating contracts in local currencies with foreign suppliers and through the use of 
derivatives, primarily forward contracts with terms of no more than two years. Exchange rate gains or 
losses related to foreign currency transactions are recognized as transaction gains or losses on our income 
statement as incurred. We also use net investment hedges to partially offset the effects of foreign currency 
on our investments in certain of our foreign subsidiaries. 


Our foreign currency derivatives had a total notional value of $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 
$2.8 billion as of December 25, 2021. The total notional amount of our debt instruments designated as net 


98 


investment hedges was $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $2.1 billion as of December 25, 2021. 
For foreign currency derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, gains and losses were 
offset by changes in the underlying hedged items, resulting in no material net impact on earnings. 


Interest Rates 


We centrally manage our debt and investment portfolios considering investment opportunities and risks, 
tax consequences and overall financing strategies. We use various interest rate derivative instruments 
including, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps, Treasury locks and 
swap locks to manage our overall interest expense and foreign exchange risk. These instruments 
effectively change the interest rate and currency of specific debt issuances. The notional amount, interest 
payment and maturity date of the interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps match the principal, 
interest payment and maturity date of the related debt. Our cross-currency interest rate swaps have terms 
of no more than twelve years. Our Treasury locks and swap locks are entered into to protect against 
unfavorable interest rate changes relating to forecasted debt transactions. 


Our interest rate derivatives had a total notional value of $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $2.1 
billion as of December 25, 2021. 


As of December 31, 2022, approximately 1% of total debt was subject to variable rates, compared to 
approximately 2%, after the impact of the related interest rate derivative instruments, as of December 25, 
2021. 


Debt Securities 
Held-to-Maturity 


Investments in debt securities that we have the positive intent and ability to hold until maturity are 
classified as held-to-maturity. Highly liquid debt securities with original maturities of three months or less 
are recorded as cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2022, we had no investments in held-to-maturity 
debt securities. As of December 25, 2021, we had $130 million of investments in commercial paper 
recorded in cash and cash equivalents. Held-to-maturity debt securities are recorded at amortized cost, 
which approximates fair value, and realized gains or losses are reported in earnings. As of December 25, 
2021, gross unrecognized gains and losses and the allowance for expected credit losses were not material. 


Available-for-Sale 


Investments in available-for-sale debt securities are reported at fair value. Changes in the fair value of 
available-for-sale debt securities are generally recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss within 
common shareholders’ equity. Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale debt securities impact 
earnings only when such securities are sold, or an allowance for expected credit losses or impairment is 
recognized. We regularly evaluate our investment portfolio for expected credit losses and impairment. In 
making this judgment, we evaluate, among other things, the extent to which the fair value of a debt 
security is less than its amortized cost; the financial condition of the issuer, including the credit quality, 
and any changes thereto; and our intent to sell, or whether we will more likely than not be required to sell, 
the debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Our assessment of whether a debt security has 
a credit loss or is impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in assumptions 
related to any particular debt security. 


In 2022, we entered into an agreement with Celsius to distribute Celsius energy drinks in the United States 
(see Note 4 for further information) and invested $550 million in Series A convertible preferred shares 
issued by Celsius, which included certain conversion and redemption features. The preferred shares 
automatically convert into Celsius common shares after six years if certain market-based conditions are 
met, or can be redeemed after seven years. Shares underlying the transaction were priced at $75 per share, 


99 


and the preferred shares are entitled to a 5% annual dividend, payable either in cash or in-kind. Given our 
redemption right, we classified our investment in the convertible preferred stock as an available-for-sale 
debt security. There were no unrealized gains and losses on our investment as of December 31, 2022. 
There were no impairment charges related to our investment in the year ended December 31, 2022. 


Fair Value Measurements 


The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021 are 
categorized as follows: 


2022 2021 
Fair Value 
Hierarchy 
Levels” — Assets® Liabilities” Assets Liabilities 
Available-for-sale debt securities © 2 $ 660 §$ — $ — §$ _— 
Index funds © 1 $ 257 $ — $ 337 $ — 
Prepaid forward contracts “ 2 $ 14 §$ — $ 21 $ = 
Deferred compensation “ 2 $ — $ 434 §$ = § 505 
Derivatives designated as cash 
flow hedging instruments: 
Foreign exchange “” 2 $ 24 §$ 4 29 $ 14 
Interest rate ” ”) — 164 14 264 
Commodity 2 2 60 70 5 
$ 26 $ 246 §$ 113 $ 283 
Derivatives not designated as 
hedging instruments: 
Foreign exchange “ 2 $ 21 $ 21 $ 19 $ 7 
Commodity © 2 11 51 35 22 
$ 32 §$ 72 §$ 54 $ 29 
Total derivatives at fair value $ 58 $ 318 $ 167 $ 312 
Total $ 989 §$ 752 §$ 525 §$ 817 


(a) 


(b) 


(c) 


(d) 
(e) 
(f) 
(g) 
(h) 


Fair value hierarchy levels are defined in Note 7. Unless otherwise noted, financial assets are classified on our balance sheet within 
prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets. Financial liabilities are classified on our balance sheet within accounts 
payable and other current liabilities and other liabilities. 

Primarily related to our investment in Celsius convertible preferred stock. The fair value of our investment approximates the transaction 
price and any accrued dividends, as well as the amortized cost. As of December 31, 2022, $3 million, $104 million and $553 million 
were Classified as cash equivalents, short-term investments and other assets, respectively. 

Based on the price of index funds. These investments are classified as short-term investments and are used to manage a portion of market 
risk arising from our deferred compensation liability. 

Based primarily on the price of our common stock. 

Based on the fair value of investments corresponding to employees’ investment elections. 

Based on recently reported market transactions of spot and forward rates. 

Primarily based on recently reported market transactions of swap arrangements. 

Derivative assets and liabilities are presented on a gross basis on our balance sheet. Amounts subject to enforceable master netting 
arrangements or similar agreements which are not offset on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021 were not 
material. Collateral received or posted against our asset or liability positions was not material. Exchange-traded commodity futures are 
cash-settled on a daily basis and, therefore, not included in the table. 


The carrying amounts of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments recorded at amortized 
cost approximate fair value (classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy) due to their short-term 
maturity. The fair value of our debt obligations as of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021 was $35 
billion and $43 billion, respectively, based upon prices of identical or similar instruments in the 
marketplace, which are considered Level 2 inputs. 


100 


Losses/(gains) on our hedging instruments are categorized as follows: 


Fair Value/Non- 
designated Hedges Cash Flow and Net Investment Hedges 
Losses/(Gains) 
Reclassified from 
Losses/(Gains) Accumulated Other 
Losses/(Gains) Recognized in Comprehensive Loss 
Recognized in Accumulated Other into Income 
Income Statement” Comprehensive Loss Statement” 
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 
Foreign exchange $ (58) $ (4) $ (3) $ (7) $ (21) $ 82 
Interest — 56 138 44 159 64 
Commodity (179) (218) (57) (285) (267) (194) 
Net investment — — (120) (192) — — 
Total $ (237) $ (166) $ (42) $ (440) $ (129) $ (48) 


(a) Foreign exchange derivative losses/gains are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. Commodity derivative gains 
included in cost of sales totaled $8 million in 2022 and $109 million in 2021 and commodity derivative gains included in selling, general 
and administrative expenses totaled $171 million in 2022 and $109 million in 2021. 

(b) Foreign exchange derivative losses/gains are included in net revenue and cost of sales. Interest rate derivative losses/gains on cross- 
currency interest rate swaps are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. Commodity derivative losses/gains are included 
in either cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses, depending on the underlying commodity. See Note 11 for further 
information. 


Based on current market conditions, we expect to reclassify net losses of $51 million related to our cash 
flow hedges from accumulated other comprehensive loss within common shareholders’ equity into net 
income during the next 12 months. 


Note 10 — Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo per Common Share 


The computations of basic and diluted net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share are as 
follows: 


2022 2021 2020 
Income Shares® Income Shares“ Income Shares“ 


Basic net income attributable to PepsiCo 


per common share $ 6.45 $ 5.51 $ 5.14 
Net income available for PepsiCo 
common shareholders $ 8,910 1,380 $ 7,618 1,382 $ 7,120 1,385 


Dilutive securities: 
Stock options, RSUs, PSUs and 


other — 7 — 7 — 7 
Diluted $ 8,910 1,387 $ 7,618 1,389 $ 7,120 1,392 
Diluted net income attributable to 

PepsiCo per common share $ 6.42 $ 5.49 $ 5.12 


(a) Weighted-average common shares outstanding (in millions). 
(b) The dilutive effect of these securities is calculated using the treasury stock method. 


The weighted-average amount of antidilutive securities excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings 
per common share was immaterial for the years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and 
December 26, 2020. 


101 


Note 11 — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Attributable to PepsiCo 


The changes in the balances of each component of accumulated other comprehensive loss attributable to 
PepsiCo are as follows: 


Accumulated Other 


Currency Cash Pension and Comprehensive 
Translation Flow Retiree Loss Attributable to 
Adjustment Hedges Medical Other PepsiCo 

Balance as of December 28, 2019”) $ (11,290) $ (3) $ (2,988) $ (19) $ (14,300) 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) before 

reclassifications (710) 126 (1,141) qd) (1,726) 
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other 

comprehensive loss — (116) 465 —_— 349 
Net other comprehensive income/(loss) (710) 10 (676) (1) (1,377) 
Tax amounts 60 (3) 144 _— 201 
Balance as of December 26, 2020 © (11,940) 4 (3,520) (20) (15,476) 
Other comprehensive (loss)/income before 

reclassifications (340) 248 702 22 632 
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other 
comprehensive loss 18 (48) 299 — 269 
Net other comprehensive (loss)/income (322) 200 1,001 22: 901 
Tax amounts (47) (45) (231) = (323) 
Balance as of December 25, 2021 (12,309) 159 (2,750) 2) (14,898) 
Other comprehensive (loss)/income before 

reclassifications “ (603) (78) 48 8 (625) 
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other 
comprehensive loss — (129) 440 — 311 
Net other comprehensive (loss)/income (603) (207) 488 8 (314) 
Tax amounts (36) 49 (99) (4) (90) 
Balance as of December 31, 2022 ” $ (12,948) $ 1 $ (2,361) 6 §$ (15,302) 


(a) The change in 2021 primarily comprises fair value increases in available-for-sale securities. 

(b) Pension and retiree medical amounts are net of taxes of $1,370 million as of December 28, 2019, $1,514 million as of December 26, 
2020, $1,283 million as of December 25, 2021 and $1,184 million as of December 31, 2022. 

(c) Currency translation adjustment primarily reflects depreciation of the Russian ruble and Mexican peso. 

(d) Currency translation adjustment primarily reflects depreciation of the Turkish lira, Swiss franc and Mexican peso. 

(e) Currency translation adjustment primarily reflects depreciation of the Egyptian pound and British pound sterling. 


102 


The following table summarizes the reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to the 
income statement: 


Amount Reclassified from 


Accumulated Other Affected Line Item in the Income 
Comprehensive Loss Statement 
2022 2021 2020 


Currency translation: 
Selling, general and administrative 


Divestitures $ — $ 18 $ — expenses 
Cash flow hedges: 
Foreign exchange contracts $ (11) $ 6 $ — Net revenue 
Foreign exchange contracts (10) 76 (43) Cost of sales 
Selling, general and administrative 
Interest rate derivatives 159 64 (129) expenses 
Commodity contracts (252) (190) 50. Cost of sales 
Selling, general and administrative 
Commodity contracts (15) (4) 6 expenses 
Net gains before tax (129) (48) (116) 
Tax amounts 23 11 29) 
Net (gains) after tax $ (106) $ (37) $ (87) 


Pension and retiree medical items: 


Other pension and retiree medical 


Amortization of net prior service credit $ (37) $ (44) $ — benefits income 

Other pension and retiree medical 
Amortization of net losses 164 289 238 benefits income 

Other pension and retiree medical 
Settlement/curtailment losses 313 54 227) benefits income 
Net losses before tax 440 299 465 
Tax amounts (80) (65) (101) 
Net losses after tax $ 360 §$ 234 $ 364 


Total net losses reclassified for the year, net of 
tax $ 254 $ 215 $ 2h 


Note 12 — Leases 
Lessee 


We determine whether an arrangement is a lease at inception. We have operating leases for plants, 
warehouses, distribution centers, storage facilities, offices and other facilities, as well as machinery and 
equipment, including fleet. Our leases generally have remaining lease terms of up to 20 years, some of 
which include options to extend the lease term for up to five years and some of which include options to 
terminate the lease within one year. We consider these options in determining the lease term used to 
establish our right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. Our lease agreements do not contain any material 
residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. 


As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the 
information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. 


We have lease agreements that contain both lease and non-lease components. For real estate leases, we 
account for lease components together with non-lease components (e.g., common-area maintenance). 


103 


Components of lease cost are as follows: 


2022 2021 2020 
Operating lease cost $ 585 $ 563 $ 539 
Variable lease cost © $ 115 $ 112 $ 111 
Short-term lease cost © $ 510 $ 469 $ 436 


(a) Includes right-of-use asset amortization of $517 million, $505 million, and $478 million in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. 
(b) Primarily related to adjustments for inflation, common-area maintenance and property tax. 
(c) Not recorded on our balance sheet. 


In 2022, 2021 and 2020, we recognized gains of $175 million, $42 million and $7 million, respectively, on 
sale-leaseback transactions with terms under five years. 


Supplemental cash flow information and non-cash activity related to our operating leases are as follows: 


2022 2021 2020 
Operating cash flow information: 
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease 
liabilities $ 573 $ 567 $ 555 
Non-cash activity: 
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations $ 871 $ 934 §$ 621 


Supplemental balance sheet information related to our operating leases is as follows: 


Balance Sheet Classification 2022 2021 
Right-of-use assets Other assets $ 2,373 $ 2,020 
Current lease liabilities Accounts payable and other current liabilities $ 483 $ 446 
Non-current lease liabilities | Other liabilities $ 1,933 $ 1,598 


Weighted-average remaining lease term and discount rate for our operating leases are as follows: 


2022 2021 2020 
Weighted-average remaining lease term 7 years 7 years 6 years 
Weighted-average discount rate 3% 3% 4% 


Maturities of lease liabilities by year for our operating leases are as follows: 


2023 $ 541 
2024 465 
2025 386 
2026 326 
2027 266 
2028 and beyond 718 
Total lease payments 2,702 
Less: Imputed interest 286 
Present value of lease liabilities $ 2,416 
Lessor 


We have various arrangements for certain foodservice and vending equipment under which we are the 
lessor. These leases meet the criteria for operating lease classification. Lease income associated with these 
leases is not material. 


104 


Note 13 — Acquisitions and Divestitures 
Juice Transaction 


In the first quarter of 2022, we sold our Tropicana, Naked and other select juice brands to PAI Partners for 
approximately $3.5 billion in cash, subject to purchase price adjustments, and a 39% noncontrolling 
interest in TBG, operating across North America and Europe. The North America portion of the 
transaction was completed on January 24, 2022 and the Europe portion of the transaction was completed 
on February 1, 2022. In the United States, PepsiCo acts as the exclusive distributor for TBG’s portfolio of 
brands for small-format and foodservice customers with chilled DSD. We have significant influence over 
our investment in TBG and account for our investment under the equity method, recognizing our 
proportionate share of TBG’s earnings on our income statement (recorded in selling, general and 
administrative expenses). 


As a result of this transaction, in the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a gain in our PBNA and 
Europe divisions (see detailed income statement activity below), including $520 million related to the 
remeasurement of our 39% ownership in TBG at fair value using a combination of the transaction price, 
discounted cash flows and an option pricing model related to our liquidation preference in TBG. In the 
fourth quarter of 2022, we reached an agreement on final purchase price adjustments for net working 
capital and net debt amounts as of the transaction close date compared to targeted amounts set forth in the 
purchase agreement. 


A summary of income statement activity related to the Juice Transaction for the year ended December 31, 
2022 is as follows: 


Impact on net 


Provision income 
for Net income attributable to 
Total income attributable PepsiCo per 


PBNA — Europe Corporate PepsiCo taxes to PepsiCo common share 


Gain associated with the 


Juice Transaction $ (3,029) $ (292) $ — $ (G,321) $ 433 § (2,888) $ 2.08 
Acquisition and divestiture- 

related charges 51 14 6 71 (13) 58 (0.04) 
Operating profit $ (2,978) $ (278) $ 6 (3,250) 420 (2,830) 2.04 
Other pension and retiree 

medical benefits income © (10) 3 (7) 0.01 
Total Juice Transaction $ (3,260) $ 423 $ (2,837) $ 2.04 © 


(a) Includes $186 million of deferred tax expense related to the recognition of our investment in TBG. 

(b) Includes $16 million curtailment gain, partially offset by $6 million special termination benefits. 

(c) Does not sum due to rounding. 

In connection with the sale, we entered into a transition services agreement with PAI Partners, under 
which we provide certain services to TBG to help facilitate an orderly transition of the business following 
the sale. In return for these services, TBG is required to pay certain agreed upon fees to reimburse us for 
our costs without markup. 


As of December 25, 2021, $1.8 billion of assets, primarily accounts receivable, net, and inventories of 
$0.5 billion, goodwill and other intangible assets of $0.6 billion and property, plant and equipment of 
$0.5 billion, and liabilities of $0.8 billion, primarily accounts payable and other liabilities of $0.6 billion 
and deferred income taxes of $0.2 billion, related to the Juice Transaction were reclassified as held for sale 
in our consolidated balance sheet. The Juice Transaction did not meet the criteria to be classified as 
discontinued operations. As of December 31, 2022, there were no amounts classified as held for sale. 


105 


2020 Acquisitions 


On March 23, 2020, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Pioneer Foods, a food and beverage 
company in South Africa with exports to countries across the globe, for 110.00 South African rand per 
share in cash. The total consideration transferred was approximately $1.2 billion and was funded by two 
unsecured bridge loan facilities entered into by one of our international consolidated subsidiaries, which 
were fully repaid in April 2020. 


In connection with our acquisition of Pioneer Foods, we have made certain commitments to the South 
Africa Competition Commission, including a commitment to provide the equivalent of 8.8 billion South 
African rand, or approximately $0.5 billion as of the acquisition date, in value for the benefit of our 
employees, agricultural development, education, developing Pioneer Foods’ operations and enterprise 
development programs in South Africa. Included in this commitment is 2.3 billion South African rand, or 
approximately $0.1 billion, relating to the implementation of an employee ownership plan and an 
agricultural, entrepreneurship and educational development fund, which is an irrevocable condition of the 
acquisition. This commitment was recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses primarily in 
the year ended December 26, 2020 and was primarily settled in the fourth quarter of 2021. The remaining 
commitment of 6.5 billion South African rand, or approximately $0.4 billion as of the acquisition date, 
relates to capital expenditures and/or business-related costs which will be incurred and recorded over a 
five-year period from the acquisition date. 


On April 24, 2020, we acquired Rockstar, an energy drink maker with whom we had a distribution 
agreement prior to the acquisition, for an upfront cash payment of approximately $3.85 billion and 
contingent consideration related to estimated future tax benefits associated with the acquisition of 
approximately $0.88 billion. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we exercised our option to accelerate all 
remaining payments due under the contingent consideration arrangement. 


On June 1, 2020, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Be & Cheery, one of the largest online 
convenient food companies in China, from Haoxiangni Health Food Co., Ltd. for cash. The total 
consideration transferred was approximately $0.7 billion. 


We accounted for the 2020 transactions as business combinations. We recognized and measured the 
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values on the respective dates of 
acquisition. The purchase price allocations for each of the 2020 acquisitions were finalized in the second 
quarter of 2021. The fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisitions of 
Pioneer Foods, Rockstar and Be & Cheery and the resulting goodwill as of the respective acquisition dates 
is summarized as follows: 


Pioneer Foods Rockstar Be & Cheery 
Acquisition date March 23,2020 = April 24, 2020 June 1, 2020 
Inventories $ 229 $ 52 $ 45 
Property, plant and equipment 379 8 60 
Amortizable intangible assets 52 — 98 
Nonamortizable intangible assets 183 2,400 309 
Other assets and liabilities (53) (9) (24) 
Net deferred income taxes (117) — (99) 
Noncontrolling interest (5) — = 
Total identifiable net assets 668 2,451 389 
Goodwill 558 2,278 309 
Total purchase price $ 1,226 $ 4,729 §$ 698 


106 


Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration transferred over 
the fair value of the net assets recognized. 


The goodwill recorded as part of the acquisition of Pioneer Foods primarily reflects synergies expected to 
arise from our combined brand portfolios and distribution networks, and is not deductible for tax purposes. 
All of the goodwill is recorded in the AMESA division. 


The goodwill recorded as part of the acquisition of Rockstar primarily represents the value of PepsiCo’s 
expected new innovation in the energy category and is deductible for tax purposes. All of the goodwill is 
recorded in the PBNA division. 


The goodwill recorded as part of the acquisition of Be & Cheery primarily reflects growth opportunities 
for PepsiCo as we leverage Be & Cheery’s direct-to-consumer and supply chain capabilities and is not 
deductible for tax purposes. All of the goodwill is recorded in the APAC division. 


Acquisition and Divestiture-Related Charges 


Acquisition and divestiture-related charges primarily include fair value adjustments to the acquired 
inventory included in the acquisition-date balance sheets (recorded in cost of sales), merger and 
integration charges and costs associated with divestitures (recorded in selling, general and administrative 
expenses). Merger and integration charges include liabilities to support socioeconomic programs in South 
Africa, gains associated with contingent consideration, employee-related costs, contract termination costs, 
closing costs and other integration costs. Divestiture-related charges reflect transaction expenses, 
including consulting, advisory and other professional fees. 


A summary of our acquisition and divestiture-related charges is as follows: 


2022 2021 2020 
Cost of sales $ — §$ 1 $ 3 
Selling, general and administrative expenses “ 74 (5) 223 
Other pension and retiree medical benefits expense 6 = = 
Total $ 80 §$ (4) $ 255 
After-tax amount © $ 66 §$ (27) $ 237 
Impact on net income attributable to PepsiCo per common share $ (0.05) $ 0.02 $ (0.17) 


(a) The income amount primarily relates to the acceleration payment made in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the contingent consideration 
arrangement associated with our acquisition of Rockstar, which is partially offset by other acquisition and divestiture-related charges. 
(b) In 2021, includes a tax benefit related to contributions to socioeconomic programs in South Africa. 


2022 2021 2020 Transaction 

FLNA $ — $ DW 29 BFY Brands 
PBNA 51 11 66 Juice Transaction, Rockstar 
Europe 14 8 — Juice Transaction 
AMESA 3 10 173 Pioneer Foods, Other 
APAC — 4 7 Be & Cheery 
Corporate 6 (39) (20) Juice Transaction, Rockstar 
Total 74 (4) 255 
Other pension and retiree medical 

benefits expense 6 — — Juice Transaction 
Total acquisition and divestiture-related [tn gt ie oer ae nee 

charges $ 80 $ (4) $ 255 


(a) In 2021, the income amount primarily relates to the acceleration payment made in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the contingent 
consideration arrangement associated with our acquisition of Rockstar, which is partially offset by divestiture-related charges associated 
with the Juice Transaction. In 2020, the income amount primarily relates to the change in the fair value of the Rockstar contingent 
consideration. 


107 


Note 14 — Supplemental Financial Information 


Balance Sheet 


Accounts and notes receivable 


Trade receivables 

Other receivables 

Total 

Allowance, beginning of year 
Cumulative effect of accounting change 
Net amounts charged to expense © 
Deductions “ 
Other 

Allowance, end of year 

Net receivables 

Inventories © 

Raw materials and packaging 

Work-in-process 

Finished goods 

Total 


Property, plant and equipment, net ? 
Land 
Buildings and improvements 


Machinery and equipment, including fleet and software 


Construction in progress 


Accumulated depreciation 
Total 
Depreciation expense 


Other assets 

Noncurrent notes and accounts receivable 
Deferred marketplace spending 

Pension plans © 

Right-of-use assets ” 

Other investments © 
Other 


Total 


Accounts payable and other current liabilities 


Accounts payable " 

Accrued marketplace spending 
Accrued compensation and benefits 
Dividends payable 

Current lease liabilities ” 

Other current liabilities 

Total 


(a) Increase primarily reflects strong revenue performance across much of our portfolio in 2022. 


Average 
Useful Life 
(Years) 


15-44 
5-15 


$ 


1,142 
10,816 
33,335 

4,491 
49,784 
(25,493) 


24,291 


2,523 


202 
123 
948 
2,373 
813 
833 
5,292 


10,732 
3,637 
2,519 
1,610 

483 
4,390 
23,371 


$ 


2021 2020 


1,123 
10,279 
31,486 

3,940 
46,828 


(24,421) 


22,407 


2,484 $ 2,335 


111 
119 
1,260 
2,020 
277 
694 
4,481 


9,834 
3,087 
2,324 
1,508 
446 
3,960 
21,159 


(b) 2021 includes reductions in allowance for expected credit losses related to COVID-19 pandemic recorded in 2020. 


(c) Includes accounts written off. 


(d) Includes adjustments related primarily to currency translation and other adjustments. 


(e) Increase reflects higher commodity costs in 2022. Approximately 9% and 7% of the inventory cost in 2022 and 2021, respectively, were 
computed using the LIFO method. The differences between LIFO and FIFO methods of valuing these inventories were not material. See 
Note 2 for further information. 

(f) See Note 2 for further information. 

(g) See Note 7 for further information. 

(h) See Note 12 for further information. 

(i) Increase in 2022 primarily reflects our investment in Celsius convertible preferred stock. See Note 9 for further information. 

Gj) Increase reflects higher commodity costs and capital expenditures in 2022. 


Statement of Cash Flows 


2022 2021 2020 
Interest paid $ 1,043 $ 1,184 $ 1,156 
Income taxes paid, net of refunds © $ 2,766 $ 1,933 $ 1,770 


(a) 2022 excludes the premiums paid in accordance with the debt transactions. 2021 excludes the charge related to cash tender offers. See 
Note 8 for further information. 

(b) In 2022, 2021 and 2020, includes tax payments of $309 million, $309 million and $78 million, respectively, related to the TCJ Act. 

The following table provides a reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash as reported 

within the balance sheet to the same items as reported in the cash flow statement. 


2022 2021 
Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,954 §$ 5,596 
Restricted cash included in other assets ® 146 111 
Total cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 5,100 $ 5,707 


(a) Primarily relates to collateral posted against certain of our derivative positions. 


109 


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 


To the Shareholders and Board of Directors 
PepsiCo, Inc.: 


Opinions on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 


We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet of PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries (the 
Company) as of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, the related Consolidated Statements of 
Income, Comprehensive Income, Cash Flows, and Equity for each of the fiscal years in the three-year 
period ended December 31, 2022, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial 
statements). We also have audited the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 
31, 2022, based on criteria established in /nternal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the 
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 


In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material 
respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, and the 
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended 
December 31, 2022, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our 
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial 
reporting as of December 31, 2022 based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated 
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 


Basis for Opinions 


The Company’s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining 
effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal 
control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal 
Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s 
consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial 
reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to 
the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations 
of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 


We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we 
plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial 
statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal 
control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 


Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of 
material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and 
performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, 
evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also 
included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well 
as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal control 
over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other 
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinions. 


110 


Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 


A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for 
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal 
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance 
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, 
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations 
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have 
a material effect on the financial statements. 


Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect 
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk 
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance 
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 


Critical Audit Matters 


The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the 
consolidated financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit 
committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial 
statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The 
communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial 
statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing 
separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate. 


Sales incentive accruals 


As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company offers sales incentives 
and discounts through various programs to customers and consumers. A number of the sales 
incentives are based on annual targets, resulting in the need to accrue for the expected liability. 
These incentives are accrued for in the “Accounts payable and other current liabilities” line on the 
balance sheet. These accruals are based on sales incentive agreements, expectations regarding 
customer and consumer participation and performance levels, and historical experience and trends. 


We identified the evaluation of certain of the Company’s sales incentive accruals as a critical audit 
matter. Subjective and complex auditor judgment is required in evaluating these sales incentive 
accruals as a result of the timing difference between when the product is delivered and when the 
incentive is settled. This specifically related to (1) forecasted customer and consumer participation 
and performance level assumptions underlying the accrual, and (2) the impact of historical 
experience and trends. 


The following are the primary procedures we performed to address this critical audit matter. We 
evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of certain internal controls related to the 
sales incentive process, including controls related to (1) the accrual methodology, (2) assumptions 
around forecasted customer and consumer participation, (3) performance levels, and (4) monitoring 
of actual sales incentives incurred compared to estimated sales incentives in respect of historical 
periods. To evaluate the timing and amount of certain accrued sales incentives we (1) analyzed the 
accrual by sales incentive type as compared to historical trends to identify specific sales incentives 
that may require additional testing, (2) recalculated expenses and closing accruals on a sample basis, 


111 


based on volumes sold and terms of the sales incentives, (3) assessed the Company’s ability to 
accurately estimate its sales incentive accrual by comparing previously established accruals to actual 
settlements, and (4) tested a sample of settlements or claims that occurred after period end, and 
compared them to the recorded sales incentive accrual. 


Carrying value of certain reacquired and acquired franchise rights and SodaStream brand 


As discussed in Notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company performs 
impairment testing of its indefinite-lived intangible assets on an annual basis during the third quarter 
of each fiscal year and whenever events and changes in circumstances indicate that there is a greater 
than 50% likelihood that the asset is impaired. The carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible 
assets as of December 31, 2022 was $32.5 billion which represents 35% of total assets, and includes 
PepsiCo Beverages North America’s (PBNA) reacquired and acquired franchise rights which had a 
carrying value of $8.8 billion as of December 31, 2022. 


We identified the assessment of the carrying value of PBNA’s reacquired and acquired franchise 
rights and the SodaStream brand in Europe as a critical audit matter. Significant auditor judgment is 
necessary to assess the impact of competitive operating and macroeconomic factors on future levels 
of sales, operating profit and cash flows. The impairment analysis of these indefinite-lived intangible 
assets requires significant auditor judgment to evaluate the Company’s forecasted revenue and 
profitability levels, including the expected long-term growth rates and the selection of the discount 
rates to be applied to the projected cash flows. 


The following are the primary procedures we performed to address this critical audit matter. We 
evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of certain internal controls related to the 
indefinite-lived assets impairment process, including controls related to the development of 
forecasted revenue, profitability levels, and expected long-term growth rates and select the discount 
rates to be applied to the projected cash flows. We also evaluated the sensitivity of the Company’s 
conclusion to changes in assumptions, including the assessment of changes in assumptions from 
prior periods. To assess the Company’s ability to accurately forecast, we compared the Company’s 
historical forecasted results to actual results. We compared the cash flow projections used in the 
impairment tests with available external industry data and other internal information. We involved 
valuation professionals with specialized skills and knowledge who assisted in evaluating (1) the 
long-term growth rates used in the impairment tests by comparing against economic data and 
information specific to the respective assets, including projected long-term nominal Gross Domestic 
Product growth in the respective local countries, and (2) the discount rates used in the impairment 
tests by comparing them against discount rates that were independently developed using publicly 
available market data, including that of comparable companies. 


Unrecognized tax benefits 


As discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company’s global operating 
model gives rise to income tax obligations in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions in 
which it operates. As of December 31, 2022, the Company recorded reserves for unrecognized tax 
benefits of $1.9 billion. The Company establishes reserves if it believes that certain positions taken 
in its tax returns are subject to challenge and the Company likely will not succeed, even though the 
Company believes the tax return position is supportable under the tax law. The Company adjusts 
these reserves, as well as the related interest, in light of new information, such as the progress of a 
tax examination, new tax law, relevant court rulings or tax authority settlements. 


We identified the evaluation of certain of the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits as a critical audit 
matter because the application of tax law and interpretation of a tax authority’s settlement history is 
complex and involves subjective judgment. Such judgments impact both the timing and amount of 


112 


the reserves that are recognized, including judgments about re-measuring liabilities for positions 
taken in prior years’ tax returns in light of new information. 


The following are the primary procedures we performed to address this critical audit matter. We 
evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of certain internal controls related to the 
unrecognized tax benefits process, including controls to (1) identify uncertain income tax positions, 
(2) evaluate the tax law and tax authority’s settlement history used to estimate the unrecognized tax 
benefits, and (3) monitor for new information that may give rise to changes to the existing 
unrecognized tax benefits, such as progress of a tax examination, new tax law or tax authority 
settlements. We involved tax and valuation professionals with specialized skills and knowledge, who 
assisted in assessing the unrecognized tax benefits by (1) evaluating the Company’s tax structure and 
transactions, including transfer pricing arrangements, and (2) assessing the Company’s interpretation 
of existing tax law as well as new and amended tax laws, tax positions taken, associated external 
counsel opinions, information from tax examinations, relevant court rulings and tax authority 
settlements. 


/s/ KPMG LLP 


We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1990. 


New York, New York 
February 8, 2023 


113 


GLOSSARY 


Acquisitions and divestitures: mergers and acquisitions activity, as well as divestitures and other 
structural changes, including changes in ownership or control in consolidated subsidiaries and 
nonconsolidated equity investees. 


Bottler Case Sales (BCS): measure of physical beverage volume shipped to retailers and independent 
distributors from both PepsiCo and our independent bottlers. 


Bottler funding: financial incentives we give to our independent bottlers to assist in the distribution and 
promotion of our beverage products. 


Concentrate Shipments and Equivalents (CSE): measure of our physical beverage volume shipments to 
independent bottlers. 


Constant currency: financial results assuming constant foreign currency exchange rates used for 
translation based on the rates in effect for the comparable prior-year period. In order to compute our 
constant currency results, we multiply or divide, as appropriate, our current year U.S. dollar results by the 
current year average foreign exchange rates and then multiply or divide, as appropriate, those amounts by 
the prior year average foreign exchange rates. 


Consumers: people who eat and drink our products. 
CSD: carbonated soft drinks. 
Customers: authorized independent bottlers, distributors and retailers. 


Direct-Store-Delivery (DSD): delivery system used by us and our independent bottlers to deliver 
beverages and convenient foods directly to retail stores where our products are merchandised. 


Effective net pricing: reflects the year-over-year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales incentive 
activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in different package sizes and in different 
countries. 


Free cash flow: net cash provided by/used for operating activities less capital spending, plus sales of 
property, plant and equipment. 


Independent bottlers: customers to whom we have granted exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture 
certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographical area. 


Mark-to-market net impact: change in market value for commodity derivative contracts that we 
purchase to mitigate the volatility in costs of energy and raw materials that we consume. The market value 
is determined based on prices on national exchanges and recently reported transactions in the marketplace. 


Organic: a measure that adjusts for the impacts of foreign exchange translation, acquisitions and 
divestitures, and where applicable, the impact of the 53™ reporting week. In excluding the impact of 
foreign exchange translation, we assume constant foreign exchange rates used for translation based on the 
rates in effect for the comparable prior-year period. See the definition of “Constant currency” for further 
information. 


Total marketplace spending: includes sales incentives and discounts offered through various programs to 
our customers, consumers or independent bottlers, as well as advertising and other marketing activities. 


Transaction gains and losses: the impact on our consolidated financial statements of exchange rate 
changes arising from specific transactions. 


114 


Translation adjustment: the impact of converting our foreign affiliates’ financial statements into U.S. 
dollars for the purpose of consolidating our financial statements. 


115 


Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 


Included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations — Our Business Risks.” 


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 


See “Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.” 


Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 


Not applicable. 


Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. 


(a) Disclosure Controls and Procedures. As of the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out 
an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our 
disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this 
report our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be 
disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is (1) recorded, processed, 
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules 
and forms, and (2) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required 
disclosure. 


(b) Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our management is 
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such 
term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and with the participation of 
our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an 
evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based upon criteria 
established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that 
our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2022. 


Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm. KPMG LLP, an independent registered 
public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report 
on Form 10-K and, as part of their audit, has issued their report, included herein, on the effectiveness of 
our internal control over financial reporting. 


(c) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting. During our fourth quarter of 2022, we 
continued migrating certain of our financial processing systems to an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) 
solution. These systems implementations are part of our ongoing global business transformation initiative, 
and we plan to continue implementing such systems throughout other parts of our businesses in phases 
over the next several years. In connection with these ERP implementations, we are updating and will 
continue to update our internal control over financial reporting, as necessary, to accommodate 
modifications to our business processes and accounting procedures. During 2022, we continued 
implementing these systems, resulting in changes that materially affected our internal control over 
financial reporting. These system implementations did not have an adverse effect, nor do we expect will 
have an adverse effect, on our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, in connection with our 
2019 multi-year productivity plan, we continue to migrate to shared business models across our operations 
to further simplify, harmonize and automate processes. In connection with our 2019 multi-year 


116 


productivity plan and resulting business process changes, we continue to enhance the design and 
documentation of our internal control over financial reporting processes, to maintain effective controls 
over our financial reporting. These business process changes have not materially affected, and we do not 
expect them to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 


Except with respect to the continued implementation of ERP systems, there have been no changes in our 
internal control over financial reporting during our fourth quarter of 2022 that have materially affected, or 
are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. We will continue to 
assess the impact on our internal control over financial reporting as we continue to implement our ERP 
solution and our 2019 multi-year productivity plan. 


Item 9B. Other Information. 
Not applicable. 


Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 


Not applicable. 


PART TI 


Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 


Information about our directors and persons nominated to become directors is contained under the caption 
“Election of Directors” in our Proxy Statement for our 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed 
with the SEC within 120 days of the year ended December 31, 2022 (the 2023 Proxy Statement) and is 
incorporated herein by reference. Information about our executive officers is reported under the caption 
“Information About Executive Officers” in Part I of this report. 


Information on beneficial ownership reporting compliance will be contained under the caption 
“Ownership of PepsiCo Common Stock - Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports,” if applicable, in our 2023 
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 


We have a written code of conduct that applies to all of our employees, including our Chairman of the 
Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller, and to our Board 
of Directors. Our Global Code of Conduct is distributed to all employees and is available on our website at 
http:/Awww.pepsico.com. A copy of our Global Code of Conduct may be obtained free of charge by 
writing to Investor Relations, PepsiCo, Inc., 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577. Any 
amendment to our Global Code of Conduct and any waiver applicable to our executive officers or senior 
financial officers will be posted on our website within the time period required by the SEC and applicable 
rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. 


Information about the procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to our Board of 
Directors can be found in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the caption “Board Composition and 
Refreshment — Shareholder Recommendations and Nominations of Director Candidates” and is 
incorporated herein by reference. 


Information concerning the composition of the Audit Committee and our Audit Committee financial 
experts is contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the caption “Corporate Governance at PepsiCo — 
Committees of the Board of Directors — Audit Committee” and is incorporated herein by reference. 


Item 11. Executive Compensation. 


Information about director and executive officer compensation, Compensation Committee interlocks and 
the Compensation Committee Report is contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the captions “2022 


117 


Director Compensation,” “Executive Compensation,” “Corporate Governance at PepsiCo — Committees of 
the Board of Directors — Compensation Committee — Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider 
Participation” and “Executive Compensation — Compensation Committee Report” and is incorporated 
herein by reference. 


Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related 
Stockholder Matters. 


Information with respect to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans can be 
found under the caption “Executive Compensation — Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity 
Compensation Plans” in our 2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 


Information on the number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock beneficially owned by each director and 
named executive officer, by all directors and executive officers as a group and on each beneficial owner of 
more than 5% of PepsiCo Common Stock is contained under the caption “Ownership of PepsiCo Common 
Stock” in our 2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 


Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 


Information with respect to certain relationships and related transactions and director independence is 
contained under the captions “Corporate Governance at PepsiCo — Related Person Transactions” and 
“Corporate Governance at PepsiCo — Director Independence” in our 2023 Proxy Statement and is 
incorporated herein by reference. 


Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 


Information on our Audit Committee’s pre-approval policy and procedures for audit and other services 
and information on our principal accountant fees and services is contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement 
under the caption “Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — 
Audit and Other Fees” and is incorporated herein by reference. 


118 


PART IV 


Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 


(a)l. 


(a)2. 


(a)3. 


Financial Statements 


The following consolidated financial statements of PepsiCo, Inc. and its affiliates are included 
herein by reference to the pages indicated on the index appearing in “Item 7. Management’s 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”: 


Consolidated Statement of Income — Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 
and December 26, 2020 


Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income — Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, 
December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020 


Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows — Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 
2021 and December 26, 2020 


Consolidated Balance Sheet — December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021 


Consolidated Statement of Equity — Fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 
and December 26, 2020 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 185). 
Financial Statement Schedules 


These schedules are omitted because they are not required or because the information is set forth in 
the financial statements or the notes thereto. 


Exhibits 
See Index to Exhibits. 


Item 16. Form 10-K Summary. 


None. 


119 


INDEX TO EXHIBITS 
ITEM 15(a)(3) 


The following is a list of the exhibits filed as part of this Form 10-K. The documents incorporated 
by reference can be viewed on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. 


EXHIBIT 


3.1 


3.2 


4.1 


4.2 


4.3 


4.4 


4.5 


4.6 


4.7 


4.8 


4.9 


4.10 


4.11 


4.12 


Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of PepsiCo, Inc., effective as of May 1, 
2019, which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 3, 2019. 


By-laws of PepsiCo, Inc., as amended and restated, effective as of April 15, 2020, which 
are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on 
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 16, 2020. 


PepsiCo, Inc. agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon request, a 
copy of any instrument, not otherwise filed herewith, defining the rights of holders of long- 
term debt of PepsiCo, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries and for any of its 
unconsolidated subsidiaries for which financial statements are required to be filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission. 


Indenture dated May 21, 2007 between PepsiCo, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon 
(formerly known as The Bank of New York), as trustee, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR 
(Registration No. 333-154314) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 
October 15, 2008. 


Form of 5.50% Senior Note due 2040, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on January 13, 2010. 


Form of 4.875% Senior Note due 2040, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 25, 2010. 


Form of 3.600% Senior Note due 2024, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on February 28, 2014. 


Form of 2.625% Senior Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on April 28, 2014. 


Form of 4.250% Senior Note due 2044, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 of PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 22, 2014. 


Form of 2.750% Senior Note due 2025, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on April 30, 2015. 


Form of 3.500% Senior Note due 2025, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on July 17, 2015. 


Form of 4.600% Senior Note due 2045, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on July 17, 2015. 


Form of 4.450% Senior Note due 2046, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 14, 2015. 


Form of 2.850% Senior Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on February 24, 2016. 


120 


4.13 


4.14 


4.15 


4.16 


4.17 


4.18 


4.19 


4.20 


4.21 


4.22 


4.23 


4.24 


4.25 


4.26 


4.27 


4.28 


4.29 


Form of 4.450% Senior Note due 2046, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on February 24, 2016. 


Form of 0.875% Senior Note due 2028, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on July 18, 2016. 


Form of 2.375% Senior Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 6, 2016. 


Form of 3.450% Senior Note due 2046, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.6 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 6, 2016. 


Form of 4.000% Senior Note due 2047, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on May 2, 2017. 


Form of 2.150% Senior Note due 2024, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on May 4, 2017. 


Form of 3.000% Senior Note due 2027, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 10, 2017. 


Board of Directors Resolutions Authorizing PepsiCo, Inc.’s Officers to Establish the Terms 
of the 5.50% Senior Notes due 2040 and 4.875% Senior Notes due 2040, which are 
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the 24 weeks ended June 12, 2010. 


Board of Directors Resolutions Authorizing PepsiCo, Inc.’s Officers to Establish the Terms 
of the 4.000% Senior Notes due 2042 and the 3.600% Senior Notes due 2042, which are 
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2011. 


Form of 4.000% Senior Note due 2042, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 2, 2012. 


Form of 3.600% Senior Note due 2042, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on August 13, 2012. 


Form of 2.750% Senior Note due 2023, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on February 28, 2013. 


Form of 7.00% Senior Note due 2029, Series A, which is incorporated herein by reference 
to Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on November 8, 2018. 


Form of 5.50% Senior Note due 2035, Series A, which is incorporated herein by reference 
to Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on November 8, 2018. 

Form of 7.29% Senior Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-228466) 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 19, 2018. 
Form of 7.44% Senior Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-228466) 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 19, 2018. 
Form of 7.00% Senior Note due 2029, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-228466) 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 19, 2018. 


121 


4.30 


4.31 


4.32 


4.33 


4.34 


4.35 


4.36 


4.37 


4.38 


4.39 


4.40 


4.41 


4.42 


4.43 


4.44 


4.45 


4.46 


Form of 5.50% Senior Note due 2035, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 
4.6 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-228466) 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 19, 2018. 


Form of 0.750% Senior Note due 2027, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 18, 2019. 


Form of 1.125% Senior Note due 2031, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 18, 2019. 


Form of 2.625% Senior Note due 2029, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on July 29, 2019. 


Form of 3.375% Senior Note due 2049, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on July 29, 2019. 


Form of 2.875% Senior Note due 2049, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 9, 2019. 


Form of 0.875% Senior Note due 2039, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 16, 2019. 


Form of 2.250% Senior Note due 2025, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 19, 2020. 


Form of 2.625% Senior Note due 2027, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 19, 2020. 


Form of 2.750% Senior Note due 2030, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 19, 2020. 


Form of 3.500% Senior Note due 2040, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.4 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 19, 2020. 


Form of 3.625% Senior Note due 2050, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 19, 2020. 


Form of 3.875% Senior Note due 2060, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.6 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 19, 2020. 


Form of 0.750% Senior Note due 2023, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on May 1, 2020. 


Form of 1.625% Senior Note due 2030, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on May 1, 2020. 


Form of 0.250% Senior Note due 2024, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on May 6, 2020. 


Form of 0.500% Senior Note due 2028, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on May 6, 2020. 


122 


4.47 


4.48 


4.49 


4.50 


4.51 


4.52 


4.53 


4.54 


4.55 


4.56 


4.57 


4.58 


4.59 


Form of 0.400% Senior Note due 2023, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 7, 2020. 


Form of 1.400% Senior Note due 2031, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 7, 2020. 


Form of 0.400% Senior Note due 2032, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 9, 2020. 


Form of 1.050% Senior Note due 2050, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 9, 2020. 


Form of 0.750% Senior Note due 2033, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 14, 2021. 


Form of 1.950% Senior Note due 2031, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 21, 2021. 


Form of 2.625% Senior Note due 2041, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 21, 2021. 


Form of 2.750% Senior Note due 2051, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.3 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 21, 2021. 


Form of 3.600% Senior Note due 2028, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on July 18, 2022. 


Form of 4.200% Senior Note due 2052, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on July 18, 2022. 


Form of 3.900% Senior Note due 2032, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on July 18, 2022. 


Form of 3.200% Senior Note due 2029, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on July 22, 2022. 


Form of 3.550% Senior Note due 2034, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on July 22, 2022. 


123 


4.60 


4.61 


4.62 


4.63 


4.64 


4.65 
10.1 


Board of Directors Resolutions Authorizing PepsiCo, Inc.’s Officers to Establish the Terms 
of the 2.750% Senior Notes due 2023, the 3.600% Senior Notes due 2024, the 2.625% 
Senior Notes due 2026, the 4.250% Senior Notes due 2044, the 2.750% Senior Notes due 
2025, the 3.500% Senior Notes due 2025, the 4.600% Senior Notes due 2045, the 4.450% 
Senior Notes due 2046, the 2.850% Senior Notes due 2026, the 0.875% Senior Notes due 
2028, the 2.375% Senior Notes due 2026, the 3.450% Senior Notes due 2046, the 4.000% 
Senior Notes due 2047, the 2.150% Senior Notes due 2024, the 3.000% Senior Notes due 
2027, the 7.00% Senior Notes due 2029, Series A, the 5.50% Senior Notes due 2035, Series 
A, the 7.29% Senior Notes due 2026, the 7.44% Senior Notes due 2026, the 7.00% Senior 
Notes due 2029, the 5.50% Senior Notes due 2035, the 0.750% Senior Notes due 2027, the 
1.125% Senior Notes due 2031, the 2.625% Senior Notes due 2029, the 3.375% Senior 
Notes due 2049, the 2.875% Senior Notes due 2049, the 0.875% Senior Notes due 2039, the 
2.250% Senior Notes due 2025, the 2.625% Senior Notes due 2027, the 2.750% Senior 
Notes due 2030, the 3.500% Senior Notes due 2040, the 3.625% Senior Notes due 2050, the 
3.875% Senior Notes due 2060, the 0.750% Senior Notes due 2023, the 1.625% Senior 
Notes due 2030, the 0.250% Senior Notes due 2024, the 0.500% Senior Notes due 2028, the 
0.400% Senior Notes due 2023, the 1.400% Senior Notes due 2031, the 0.400% Senior 
Notes due 2032, and the 1.050% Senior Notes due 2050, the 0.750% Senior Notes due 
2033, the 1.950% Senior Notes due 2031, the 2.625% Senior Notes due 2041, the 2.750% 
Senior Notes due 2051, the 3.600% Senior Notes due 2028, the 4.200% Senior Notes due 
2052, the 3.900% Senior Notes due 2032, the 3.200% Senior Notes due 2029 and the 
3.550% Senior Notes due 2034, which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.4 
to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on February 28, 2013. 

Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 24, 2018, between Pepsi-Cola 
Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc. and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, 
N.A., as trustee, to the Indenture dated as of January 15, 1993 between Whitman 
Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee, which is incorporated 
herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 25, 2018. 


Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 26, 2010, among Pepsi-Cola 
Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc., PepsiAmericas, Inc. and The Bank New York Mellon 
Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, to the Indenture dated as of January 15, 1993 between 
Whitman Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee, which is 
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2010. 


First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 20, 1999, between Whitman Corporation 
and The First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee, to the Indenture dated as of January 15, 
1993, between Whitman Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee, 
each of which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Post-Effective 
Amendment No. 1 to PepsiAmericas, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 
(Registration No. 333-64292) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 
December 29, 2005. 


Form of PepsiAmericas, Inc. 7.29% Note due 2026, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 4.7 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly 
period ended March 20, 2010. 

Description of Securities. 


Form of PepsiCo, Inc. Director Indemnification Agreement, which is incorporated herein 
by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 
year ended December 25, 2004.* 


124 


10.12 


10.13 


10.14 


10.15 


10.16 


10.17 


10.18 


Severance Plan for Executive Employees of PepsiCo, Inc. and Affiliates, which is 
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on 
Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 6, 2008.* 


Form of Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended 
March 21, 2009.* 


Specified Employee Amendments to Arrangements Subject to Section 409A of the Internal 
Revenue Code, adopted February 18, 2010 and March 29, 2010, which is incorporated 
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
the quarterly period ended March 20, 2010.* 


PepsiCo, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated March 13, 2014, 
which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report 
on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 14, 2014.* 


The PepsiCo International Retirement Plan Defined Benefit Program, as amended and 
restated effective as of January 1, 2023.* 


The PepsiCo International Retirement Plan Defined Contribution Program, as amended and 
restated effective as of January 1, 2022.* 


PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 4, 2016), which is 
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit B to PepsiCo’s Proxy Statement for its 2016 
Annual Meeting of Shareholders, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 
March 18, 2016.* 


PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan (Plan Document for the Pre-409A Program), as 
amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2022, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.9 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year 
ended December 25, 2021.* 


PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan (Plan Document for the 409A Program), as amended 
and restated effective as of January 1, 2022.* 


PepsiCo Automatic Retirement Contribution Equalization Plan, as amended and restated 
effective as of January 1, 2019, which is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to 
PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 
2018.* 


PepsiCo Director Deferral Program (Plan Document for the 409A Program), amended and 
restated effective as of January 1, 2020, which is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 
to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 
2019.* 

Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.49 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 
year ended December 31, 2016.* 


PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program (Plan Document for the 409A Program), 
amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2022.* 


Amendment to Certain PepsiCo Award Agreements, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.45 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 
year ended December 30, 2017. * 


PepsiCo, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated December 20, 2017), 
which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.47 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report 
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017.* 

Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
quarterly period ended March 24, 2018.* 

Form of Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is 


incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on 
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 24, 2018.* 


125 


10.19 


10.20 


10.21 


10.22 


10.23 


10.24 


21 
23 
24 
31 


32 


99.1 


99.2 


101 


104 


PepsiCo, Inc. Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (as amended and restated effective 
February 4, 2021), which is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 2020.* 


Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
quarterly period ended March 23, 2019.* 


PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program (Plan Document for the Pre-409A Program), 
amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2019, which is incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.35 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
December 28, 2019.* 


Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
quarterly period ended March 21, 2020.* 


Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
quarterly period ended March 20, 2021.* 


Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Agreement, which is incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
quarterly period ended March 19, 2022.* 


Subsidiaries of PepsiCo, Inc. 
Consent of KPMG LLP. 
Power of Attorney. 


Certification of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 


Certification of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 


364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2022, among PepsiCo, as borrower, the 
lenders named therein, and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, which is incorporated 
by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission on May 27, 2022. 


Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2022, among PepsiCo, as borrower, the 
lenders named therein, and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, which is incorporated 
by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to PepsiCo, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission on May 27, 2022. 


The following materials from PepsiCo, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 
year ended December 31, 2022 formatted in iXBRL (Inline eXtensible Business Reporting 
Language): (1) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of 
Comprehensive Income, (ili) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (iv) the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Equity and (vi) Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 


The cover page from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2022, formatted in Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101. 


ig Management contracts and compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 
15(a)(3) of this report. 


126 


SIGNATURES 


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, PepsiCo has 
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 


Dated: February 8, 2023 


PepsiCo, Inc. 


By: /s/ Ramon L. Laguarta 
Ramon L. Laguarta 


Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief 
Executive Officer 


127 


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by 
the following persons on behalf of PepsiCo and in the capacities and on the date indicated. 


SIGNATURE TITLE DATE 
/s/__Ramon L. Laguarta Chairman of the Board of Directors February 8, 2023 
Ramon L. Laguarta and Chief Executive Officer 

/s/_ Hugh F. Johnston Vice Chairman, Executive Vice President February 8, 2023 
Hugh F. Johnston and Chief Financial Officer 

/s/__ Marie T. Gallagher Senior Vice President and Controller February 8, 2023 
Marie T. Gallagher (Principal Accounting Officer) 

/s/_Segun Agbaje Director February 8, 2023 
Segun Agbaje 

/s/_ Shona L. Brown Director February 8, 2023 
Shona L. Brown 

/s/__Cesar Conde Director February 8, 2023 
Cesar Conde 

/s/__ Jan M. Cook Director February 8, 2023 
Ian M. Cook 

/s/__ Edith W. Cooper Director February 8, 2023 
Edith W. Cooper 

/s/__Dina Dublon Director February 8, 2023 
Dina Dublon 

/s/__ Michelle Gass Director February 8, 2023 
Michelle Gass 

/s/__Dave J. Lewis Director February 8, 2023 
Dave J. Lewis 

/s/__ David C. Page Director February 8, 2023 
David C. Page 

/s/__ Robert C. Pohlad Director February 8, 2023 
Robert C. Pohlad 

/s/__Daniel Vasella Director February 8, 2023 
Daniel Vasella 

/s/__Darren Walker Director February 8, 2023 
Darren Walker 

/s/__ Alberto Weisser Director February 8, 2023 
Alberto Weisser 


128 


Reconciliation of GAAP and 


Non-GAAP Information 


In discussing financial results and guidance, we refer to the 
following measures which are not in accordance with GAAP: 
organic revenue, core results, core constant currency results 
and free cash flow. We use non-GAAP financial measures 
internally to make operating and strategic decisions, 
including the preparation of our annual operating plan, 
evaluation of our overall business performance and as a 
factor in determining compensation for certain employees. 
We believe presenting non-GAAP financial measures 
provides additional information to facilitate comparison of 
our historical operating results and trends in our underlying 
operating results, and provides additional transparency on 
how we evaluate our business. We also believe presenting 
these measures allows investors to view our performance 
using the same measures that we use in evaluating our 
financial and business performance and trends. 


We consider quantitative and qualitative factors in assessing 
whether to adjust for the impact of items that may be 
significant or that could affect an understanding of our 
ongoing financial and business performance or trends. For 
further information regarding these non-GAAP financial 
measures, including further information on the excluded 
items for the periods presented, see "Non-GAAP Measures,” 
“Items Affecting Comparability” and “Our Liquidity and 
Capital Resources" in “Item 7. Management's Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" 

in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The core non-GAAP 
financial measures contained in this Annual Report exclude 
the impact of the following items: 


Mark-to-market net impact: Mark-to-market net gains and 
losses on commodity derivatives in corporate unallocated 
expenses. These gains and losses are subsequently reflected 
in division results when the divisions recognize the cost of 
the underlying commodity in operating profit. 


Restructuring and impairment charges: Expenses related to 
the multi-year productivity plan publicly announced in 2019, 
which was expanded and extended through the end of 2028 
to take advantage of additional opportunities within the 
initiatives of the plan. 


Acquisition and divestiture-related charges: Primarily fair 
value adjustments to the acquired inventory included in the 
acquisition-date balance sheets, merger and integration 
charges and costs associated with divestitures. Merger 
and integration charges include liabilities to support 
socioeconomic programs in South Africa, gains associated 
with contingent consideration, employee-related costs, 
contract termination costs, closing costs and other 
integration costs. Divestiture-related charges reflect 
transaction expenses, including consulting, advisory and 
other professional fees. 


Gain associated with the Juice Transaction: Gain associated 
with the Juice Transaction in our PepsiCo Beverages North 
America and Europe divisions. 


Impairment and other charges: Comprised of Russia-Ukraine 
conflict charges, brand portfolio impairment charges and 
other impairment charges as described below. 


Russia-Ukraine conflict charges: In connection with the 
deadly conflict in Ukraine, charges related to indefinite- 
lived intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment impairment, allowance for expected credit 
losses, inventory write-downs and other costs. 


Brand portfolio impairment charges: Intangible 
asset, investment and property, plant and equipment 
impairments and other charges as a result of 
management's decision to reposition or discontinue 
the sale/distribution of certain brands and to sell an 
investment. 


Other impairment charges: Impairment charges related 
to certain of our indefinite-lived intangible assets which 
reflect an increase in the weighted-average cost of 
capital as well as our most current estimates of future 
financial performance. 


Pension and retiree medical-related impact: Primarily 
settlement charges related to lump sum distributions 
exceeding the total of annual service and interest costs, as 
well as curtailment gains. 


PepsiCo Annual Report 2022 | 129 


Charge related to cash tender offers: Charge primarily 
representing the tender price paid over the carrying value of 
the tendered notes and loss on treasury rate locks used to 
mitigate the interest rate risk on the cash tender offers. 


Tax benefit related to the IRS audit: A non-cash tax benefit 
resulting from our agreement with the IRS to settle one of 
the issues assessed in the 2014 through 2016 tax audit. The 
agreement covers tax years 2014 through 2019. 


Tax expense related to the TCJ Act: Adjustments to the 
mandatory transition tax liability under the TCJ Act. 


Additionally, organic revenue growth is a measure that 
adjusts for the impacts of foreign exchange translation, 
acquisitions, divestitures and other structural changes, 

and every five or six years, the impact of the 53% reporting 
week, including in our 2022 financial results. Adjusting 

for acquisitions and divestitures reflects mergers and 
acquisitions activity, including the impact in 2021 of an extra 
month of net revenue for our acquisitions of Pioneer Foods 
in our Africa, Middle East and South Asia division and Be & 
Cheery in our Asia Pacific, Australia and New Zealand and 
China Region division as we aligned the reporting calendars 
of these acquisitions with those of our divisions, as well 

as divestitures and other structural changes, including 
changes in ownership or control in consolidated subsidiaries 


Operating Profit Reconciliation 


and nonconsolidated equity investees. We believe organic 
revenue growth provides useful information in evaluating 
the results of our business because it excludes items that we 
believe are not indicative of ongoing performance or that we 
believe impact comparability with the prior year. 


Division operating profit is the aggregation of the operating 
profit for each of our reportable segments, which excludes 
the impact of corporate unallocated expenses. 


Free cash flow is a measure management uses to monitor 
cash flow performance. We define free cash flow as net cash 
provided by operating activities less capital spending, plus 
sales of property, plant and equipment. Since net capital 
spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and 
maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is 

a recurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe 
investors should also consider net capital spending when 
evaluating our cash from operating activities. 


Non-GAAP information should be considered as 
supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered 
in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial 
information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In 
addition, our non-GAAP financial measures may not be 
the same as or comparable to similar non-GAAP financial 
measures presented by other companies. 


Reported operating profit, GAAP measure 
Mark-to-market net impact 
Restructuring and impairment charges 
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges 
Gain associated with the Juice Transaction 
Impairment and other charges 


Core operating profit, non-GAAP measure 


Impact of foreign exchange translation 


Core constant currency % change, non-GAAP measure 


Note -— Dollars are presented in millions. 


130 | PepsiCo Annual Report 2022 


Year Ended 
December 31, December 25, 
2022 2021 % Change 
$11,512 $ 11,162 3% 
62 19 
380 237 
74 (4) 
(3,321) _ 
3,618 —_ 
$ 12,325 $11,414 8% 
2% 
10% 


Diluted EPS Reconciliation 


Year Ended 
December 31, December 25, 
2022 2021 % Change 

Reported diluted EPS, GAAP measure $6.42 $5.49 17% 

Mark-to-market net impact 0.03 0.01 

Restructuring and impairment charges 0.24 0.15 

Acquisition and divestiture-related charges 0.05 (0.02) 

Gain associated with the Juice Transaction (2.08) _— 

Impairment and other charges 212 — 

Pension and retiree medical-related impact 0.17 0.01 

Charge related to cash tender offers _ 0.49 

Tax benefit related to the IRS audit (0.23) _— 

Tax expense related to the TCJ Act 0.06 0.14 
Core diluted EPS, non-GAAP measure $6.79 $ 6.26 9% 

Impact of foreign exchange translation 2% 
Core constant currency diluted EPS growth, non-GAAP 

measure 11% 


Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Reconciliation 


Year Ended 
December 31, December 25, 
2022 2021 % Change 
Net cash provided by operating activities, GAAP measure $10,811 $11,616 (7)% 
Capital spending (5,207) (4,625) 
Sales of property, plant and equipment 251 166 
Free cash flow, non-GAAP measure $ 5,855 $ 7,157 (18)% 
Net Revenue Growth Reconciliation 
Impact of 
Organic 
Reported Foreign Acquisitions 534 % change, 
% change, exchange and reporting non-GAAP 
GAAP measure translation divestitures week measure 
Year ended December 31, 2022 9% 3 4 (1) 14% 
Quarter ended December 31, 2022 11% 3 4 (4) 15% 
Quarter ended September 3, 2022 9% é! 4 — 16% 
Quarter ended June 11, 2022 5% 3 5 _ 13% 
Quarter ended March 19, 2022 9% 1 3 — 14% 
Quarter ended December 25, 2021 12% aa (0.5) _ 12% 


Note -Dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts. Certain amounts above may not sum due to rounding. 


PepsiCo Annual Report 2022 | 131 


Division Operating Profit Reconciliation 


Year Ended December 31, 2022 


Impact of 
% of Acquisition Gain 
Reported Restruc- and associated % of Core 
Reported, division Mark-to- turingand _— divestiture- with the Impairment Core, division 
GAAP operating market net impairment related Juice and other non-GAAP operating 
measure profit impact charges charges Transaction charges measure profit 
Frito-Lay North 
America § 6,135 45 $— $ 46 $— $ — $ 88 $ 6,269 44 
Quaker Foods North 
America 604 4 — 7 — — — 611 4 
PepsiCo Beverages 
North America 5,426 40 _ 68 51 (3,029) 160 2,676 19 
Latin America 1,627 12 — 32 — — 7A 1,730 12 
Europe (1,380) (10) _ 109 14 (292) 2,932 1,383 10 
Africa, Middle East and 
South Asia 666 5 _ 12 3 _ 190 871 6 
Asia Pacific, Australia 
and New Zealand and 
China Region 537 4 _ 16 — —_ 177 730 5 
Division operating 
profit 13,615 _ 290 68 (3,321) 3,618 14,270 
Corporate unallocated 
expenses (2,103) 62 90 6 —_ _ (1,945) 
Operating profit $11,512 $62 $ 380 $74 $ (3,321) $3,618 $12,325 


Note-Dollars are presented in millions. 


132 | PepsiCo Annual Report 2022 


Common Stock Information 


Stock Trading Symbol — PEP Dividend Policy 
Dividends are usually declared in February, May, July and November 
Stock Excha nge Listings and paid at the end of March, June and September and the beginning 
f J . 
The Nasdaq Global Select Market is the principal market for our alias 
common stock, which is also listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange. On February 1, 2023, the Board of Directors of PepsiCo declared 


a quarterly dividend of $1.15 per share, payable March 31, 2023, to 
shareholders of record on March 3, 2023. For the remainder of 2023, 
the record dates for these dividend payments are expected to be 
June 2, September 1 and December 1, 2023, subject to approval of 
the Board of Directors. On February 9, 2023, we announced a 10.0% 
increase in our annualized dividend to $5.06 per share from $4.60 per 
share, effective with the dividend expected to be paid in June 2023. 
We have paid consecutive quarterly cash dividends since 1965. 


Year-End Market Price of Stock Annualized Cash Dividends Declared 


Based on calendar year-end (in U.S. Dollars) Per share (in U.S. Dollars) 


$200 2022 
$175 al 
$150 eo 2021 nd 


ans = 2020 $4,022 


$100) 
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 


The closing price for a share of PepsiCo common stock on The 

Nasdaq Global Select Market for the years ended 2018 - 2022 2018 
was the price reported by Bloomberg. Past performance is not 

necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 


2019 $3.7925 


Comparison of Cumulative Total Shareholder Return 


(in U.S. Dollars) 


The graph below matches PepsiCo Inc.'s cumulative five-year total shareholder return on common stock with the cumulative 
total returns of the S&P SOO® index, and the S&P® Average of Industry Groups index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 
investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from 12/31/2017 to 12/31/2022. 


— PepsiCo,Inc. --- S&P500 ------ S&P Avg. of Ind. Groups* 


$250 
$200 
$150 
$100 
$50 


12/17 12/18 12/19 12/20 12/21 12/22 


“The S&P Average of Industry Groups is derived by weighting the returns of two applicable S&P Industry Groups (the S&P Packaged Foods 
and Meats and S&P Soft Drink indices which are industry groups relating to non-alcoholic beverages and foods) based on PepsiCo's sales in 
its beverage and foods businesses. The returns for PepsiCo, the S&P SOO and the S&P Average for Industry Groups are calculated through 
December 31, 2022. 


12/17 12/18 a2 719) 12/20 12/21 12/22 
PepsiCo, Inc. $100 $95 $121 $135 $163 $174 
S&P SOO® $100 $96 $126 $149 $192 $157 
S&P® Average of Industry Groups” $100 $90 $115 $123 $140 $153 


The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 


PepsiCo Annual Report 2022 | 133 


Shareholder Information 


Annual Meeting 


The Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be conducted in a virtual- 
only format on Wednesday, May 3, 2023, at 9 a.m. Eastern Daylight 
time at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/PEP2023. The webcast 
will open for shareholders at approximately 8:45 a.m. Eastern Daylight 
time and begin promptly at 9 a.m. Eastern Daylight time. Proxies for 
the meeting will be solicited by an independent proxy solicitor. This 
Annual Report is not part of the proxy solicitation. 


Inquiries Regarding Your Stock Holdings 


Registered Shareholders (shares held by you in your name) should 
address communications concerning transfers, statements, dividend 
payments, address changes, lost certificates and other administrative 
matters to: 


Computershare Inc. 

150 Royall Street, Suite 101 or 

Canton, MA 02021 Shareholder Relations 
Telephone: 800-226-0083 PepsiCo, Inc. 

201-680-6578 (outside the U.S.) 700 Anderson Hill Road 
Email: Purchase, NY 10577 
web.queries@computershare.com Email: investor@pepsico.com 
Website: 

www.computershare.com/investor 


In all correspondence or telephone inquiries, please mention PepsiCo, 
the name in which your shares are registered, your holder ID, your 
address and your telephone number. 


Long-Term Incentive Plan Participants 
Associates who received Long-Term Incentive awards should address 
all questions regarding their account, including outstanding options 
or shares received through option exercises or vesting event to: 
Morgan Stanley 

Global Stock Plan Services 

P.O. Box 182616 

Columbus, OH 43218-2616 

Telephone: 844-4-PEP-LTI (U.S. and Canada) 

614-414-8060 (all other locations) 

Email: PEP@morganstanley.com 


PepsiCo Savings Plan Participants 
Associates should address all questions regarding their account to: 
Fidelity 

P.O. Box 770003 

Cincinnati, OH 45277-O065 


Telephone: 800-632-2014 
Website: www.netbenefits.com/pepsico 


PepsiCo Stock Purchase Program 
Participants 


Associates should address all questions regarding their account to: 
Fidelity 

P.O. Box 770001 

Cincinnati, OH 45277-0002 


Telephone: 800-632-2014 
Website: www.netbenefits.com/pepsico 


Please have a copy of your most recent 
statement available when calling with inquiries. 


Forward-Looking Statements 


This Annual Report contains statements reflecting our views 
about our future performance that constitute "forward- 
looking statements” within the meaning of the Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (Reform Act). 
Statements that constitute forward-looking statements 
within the meaning of the Reform Act are generally identified 
through the inclusion of words such as “aim,” “anticipate,” 
“believe,” " estimate,” “expect,” “expressed confidence,” 
future,” " guidance,” " may,” 
“project,” 


“objective,” “outlook,” "plan," “position,” "potential 
wn will" or similar statements 


“seek,” “should,” "strategy," “target, 
or variations of such words and other similar expressions. All 


drive; 


“forecast, 


goal,” " 


intend; 


statements addressing our future operating performance, 
and statements addressing events and developments that 
we expect or anticipate will occur in the future, are forward- 
looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act. 


134 | PepsiCo Annual Report 20 


These forward-looking statements are based on currently 
available information, operating plans and projections 

about future events and trends. They inherently involve risks 
and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those predicted in any such forward-looking 
statement. These risks and uncertainties include, but are 

not limited to, those described in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and 
“Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations — Our Business — Our 
Business Risks" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K included 
herewith. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance 
on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only 
as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to 
update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of 
new information, future events or otherwise. 


Design by Addison www.addison.com Printing by Sandy Alexander Inc. 


Corporate Information 


Corporate Headquarters 
PepsiCo, Inc. 

700 Anderson Hill Road 

Purchase, NY 10577 

Telephone: 914-253-2000 


PepsiCo Website 


www.pepsico.com 


Direct Stock Purchase 


Interested investors can make their initial purchase directly through 
Computershare, transfer agent for PepsiCo and Administrator for the 
Plan. Please contact our transfer agent for more information. 


Computershare Inc. 

150 Royall Street, Suite 101 

Canton, MA 02021 

Telephone: 800-226-0083 

201-680-6578 (outside the U.S.) 

Email: web.queries@computershare.com 
Website: www.computershare.com/investor 


Other services include dividend reinvestment, direct deposit of 
dividends, optional cash investments by electronic funds transfer or 
check drawn on a U.S. bank, sale of shares, online account access 
and electronic delivery of shareholder materials. 


Independent Auditors 
KPMG LLP 

345 Park Avenue 

New York, NY 10154-0102 

Telephone: 212-758-9700 


Additional Information 


PepsiCo's Annual Report contains many of the valuable trademarks 
owned and/or used by PepsiCo and its subsidiaries and affiliates in 
the U.S. and internationally to distinguish products and services of 
outstanding quality. All other trademarks featured herein are the 
property of their respective owners. 


© 2023 PepsiCo, Inc. 


Environmental Profile 

This Annual Report was printed with Forest Stewardship Council® 
(FSC®)-certified paper, the use of 100% certified renewable wind 
power resources and vegetable-based ink. PepsiCo continues to 
reduce the costs and environmental impact of annual report printing 
and mailing by utilizing a distribution model that drives increased 
online readership and fewer printed copies. You can learn more about 
our environmental efforts at www.pepsico.com. 


3 PEPSICO 


