2 PEPSICO 


Notice of 2024 
Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders and 
Proxy Statement 


: 
3 
; 
é 


winning with GPrept 


pepsicopositive 


Announced our 

52nd consecutive annualized 
dividend per share increase, 
effective with the expected 
June 2024 dividend payment 


Dear Fellow PepsiCo Shareholders: 


Ramon L. Laguarta 
Chairman of the Board of Directors and 
Chief Executive Officer 


|am pleased to invite you to our 2024 Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders on Wednesday, May 1, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. Eastern 
Daylight Time. This year’s event can be accessed at 
www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/PEP2024. 


We delivered another year of strong operational 
performance in a dynamic and complex 
operating environment 


We are proud of what we achieved during another 
challenging year, marked by economic instability, 
geopolitical tensions and high levels of inflation. Despite 
these challenges, we exceeded most of our performance 
goals and delivered 5.9% and 9.5% reported and organic 
revenue growth, respectively, and 2% and 14% reported 
and core constant currency earnings per share (EPS) growth, 
respectively — our third consecutive year of delivering 
double-digit core constant currency EPS growth. 


Our results and progress support our belief that we have 

the right strategic foundation in place by becoming a Faster, 
Stronger and Better company by Winning with pep+ (PepsiCo 
Positive) — our strategic end-to-end business transformation 
agenda designed to drive long-term sustainable performance 
and value throughout our organization. 


Winning with pep+ has served as a powerful strategic 
foundation and continues to guide our evolution as 
we look to perform to potential 


Driven by Winning with pep+, PepsiCo made great strides in 
2023 towards becoming an even Faster, even Stronger, and 
even Better company. 


To become even Faster, we continued to be laser-focused on 
our market performance, including by: 


= Providing more Positive Choices for consumers, such as 
reducing sodium in some of our biggest brand products 
like Lay's Classic and Doritos Nacho Cheese, and expanding 
zero sugar offerings across our beverage portfolio; 


= Innovating packaging and flavor across our product 
portfolio, such as launching mini snacks canisters and our 
new lemon-line soda, Starry; and 


= Driving growth in key consumer channels such as Away 
from Home and e-commerce, to ensure our products are 
available for consumers always and everywhere. 


PepsiCo became even Stronger by continuing to advance and 
elevate our productivity initiatives, accelerate implementation 
of our digital strategy, and redefine key aspects of our people 
strategy. This included expanding the deployment of critical 
digital programs in more markets to provide us with better 
data and improve the ways we are able to adapt and make 
business decisions, and re-envisioning Global Business 
Services — a program that helps reduce inefficiencies across 
the Company. We also continued to focus on investing in 
both our frontline and professional employees and creating 
an even better workplace with more opportunities for 

career advancement. 


We became even Better by continuing to put pep+ at the 
center of our business and prioritizing decisions around its 
three core pillars, including by: 


= Positive Agriculture 


- Forming a transformational collaboration with Walmart 
to spread regenerative agriculture practices across more 
than 2 million acres of farmland in the U.S. and Canada; 


- Committing to a multi-year investment in strategic 
partnership agreements with three of the most well- 
respected U.S. farmer-facing organizations — Practical 
Farmers of lowa, the Soil and Water Outcomes Fund, and 
the IL Corn Growers Association — to drive adoption of 
regenerative agriculture practices across the United States; 


- Announcing the third year of our Positive Agriculture 
Outcomes accelerator with investments in new projects 
across nine countries, offering co-investment to farming 
communities and projects to support farmer livelihoods, 
help scale sustainable innovation, and accelerate 
regenerative agriculture; 


= Positive Value Chain 


- 31 markets now have at least one product packaged 
with 100% recycled PET; 


- Continuing to scale new business models that require 
little or no single-use packaging, such as SodaStream, 
already sold in more than 40 countries, and through 
Gatorade and Propel enhancers, tablets and powders; 

- Opening an industry-leading Greenhouse Learning 
Center for the Frito-Lay and Quaker R&D teams to study 
compostable packaging, aimed at speeding up the rate 
of innovation for packaging solutions; 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 1 


- Driving progress on our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
agenda, reaching 45% women in management 
roles globally; 


- Continuing to create smiles and positively impact 
our communities through the PepsiCo Foundation 
by investing $47.4 million in more than 40 countries, 
helping unlock access to nutritious food, safe water, 
and economic opportunity; 


= Positive Choices 


- Announcing anew sodium reduction goal, aiming for 
at least 75% of our global convenient foods portfolio 
volume to meet or be below category sodium targets 
by 2030; and 


- Rolling out a new diverse ingredient goal with the aim 
of delivering 145 billion portions of diverse ingredients 
in global convenient foods annually by 2030. 


Our Board of Directors is actively engaged in 
our strategy 


As stewards of our Company, our Board plays an essential 

role in guiding our overall long-term strategy. Our Board has 
deep experience in the area of strategy development and 

risk oversight and offers insights into the most important 

issues facing the Company. Throughout yet another year of 
uncertainty and challenges, our Board has continued to be 

an invaluable resource, offering their expertise and providing 
tireless support. | am grateful to each member for their 
availability and their counsel throughout this extraordinary time. 


We value diversity of thought, experience and 
background in our Boardroom 


As our Company's long-term strategy evolves, so do the 
skills, qualifications, attributes and experiences that the Board 
seeks in its director nominees. We are proud of the ongoing 
evolution of our Board and its track record on refreshment. 
We believe our director nominees bring diverse opinions 
and perspectives and a well-rounded range of attributes, 
viewpoints and experiences that are reflective of our 

global businesses. 


Your feedback is important to us 


The feedback we receive from our shareholders and other 
stakeholders is critical to PepsiCo's success. We have a 
longstanding practice of engaging regularly with our 
shareholders and other stakeholders. These important 
external viewpoints help inform our decisions and our 
strategy. Through ongoing dialogue, we hope to continue 
broadening our perspective and strengthening our corporate 
governance framework. We believe this helps ensure 

we have the right strategy in place to meet the evolving 
needs of our rapidly changing business environment 

and remain responsive to the priorities and long-term 
interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders. 


2 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Looking ahead 


The external landscape will evolve in upcoming years, and 
we must adapt to seize the new opportunities that arise. In 
2024, we will focus on providing consumer-centric products 
that offer compelling value while also elevating our focus 
on productivity, so we can continue to invest in critical 
capabilities and advance our pep+ agenda. | am confident 
we can perform to our full potential and deliver sustainable, 
long-term results for our shareholders, our consumers, Our 
customers, and our communities. 


Your vote is important 


Whether or not you plan to attend the Annual Meeting 
virtually, we encourage you to vote promptly. You may vote 
by telephone or online, or, if you requested to receive printed 
proxy materials, by completing, signing, dating and returning 
the enclosed proxy card or voting instruction form. 


On behalf of our Board of Directors and all PepsiCo 
associates, thank you for your support and the faith and 
confidence you place in us with your investment. 


Sincerely, 


Ramon L. Laguarta 

Chairman of the Board of Directors and 
Chief Executive Officer 

March 22, 2024 


2 PEPSICO 


700 Anderson Hill Road 
Purchase, New York 10577 


Notice of 2024 Annual Meeting of Shareholders 


Date and Time 
Wednesday, May 1, 2024 

9:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time 
Place 


www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/PEP2024. 
Items to be Voted On 


Elect as directors the 15 nominees named in 
the attached Proxy Statement. 


Ratify the appointment of KPMG LLP as our 
independent registered public accounting 
firrn for fiscal year 2024. 


Provide advisory approval of executive 
compensation. 


Approve the amended and restated 
PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan. 


Act upon eight shareholder proposals 
described in the attached Proxy Statement, 
if properly presented. 


tL LLL] 


Record Date 


Holders of record of our Common Stock as of the close of 
business on March 1, 2024 will be entitled to notice of, and to 
vote at, the Annual Meeting. 


By Order of the Board of Directors, 


i 


David Flavell 
Corporate Secretary 
March 22, 2024 


Proxy Voting 


Your vote is very important. Whether or not you plan 
to attend the Annual Meeting, please promptly vote 

by telephone or over the Internet, or by completing, 
signing, dating and returning your proxy card or voting 
instruction form so that your shares will be represented 
at the Annual Meeting. 


Voting Methods 


Via the Internet in Advance 
Visit Www.proxyvote.com. 


By Telephone 

& Call the phone number 
located on your proxy card 
or voting instruction form. 


M4 By Mail 
Complete, sign, date and 


return your proxy card or 
voting instruction form in 
the envelope provided. 


You will need 
the 16-digit 
number 
included in 


your proxy 
card, voting 
instruction 
form or notice 


At the Meeting 

Attend the Annual Meeting virtually. See 
page 119 for additional details on how to vote 
during the meeting. 


Important Notice Regarding the Availability of Proxy 
Materials for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to 
be Held on May 1, 2024. 


Our Notice of Annual Meeting, Proxy Statement and Annual 
Report for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023 ("2023 
Annual Report’) are available at www.pepsico.com/proxy4. 


We are making the Proxy Statement and the form of proxy 
first available on or about March 22, 2024. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 3 


Table of Contents 


Proxy Statement Summary 5 Audit Committee Report 46 
Election of Directors (Proxy Item No. 1) 11 Audit and Other Fees 48 
Director Election Requirements and Majority-Vote Policy 12 Advisory Approval of Executive Compensation 
Director Nominees 12 (Proxy Item No. 3) 49 
Board Composition and Refreshment 20 Executive Compensation 50 
Comprehensive, Ongoing Process for Board Succession Compensation Discussion and Analysis 50 
Planning and Selection and Nomination of Directors 20 2023 Summary Compensation Table 68 
Directors’ Attributes and Experiences 21 2023 Grants of Plan-Based Awards 70 
Attributes of Individual Nominees 1 2023 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End 71 
Consideration of Board Diversity 1 2023 Option Exercises and Stock Vested 72 
Director Orientation and Continuing Education 22 2023 Retirement Benefits 73 
Board and Committee Assessments 22 2023 Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation 77 
Shareholder Recommendations and Nominations of Potential Payments on Termination or Change 79 
Director Candidates 23 in Control 
Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 24 Compensation Committee Report 80 
Our Governance Philosophy 24 CEO Pay Ratio 81 
Our Global Code of Conduct 24 Pay Versus Performance 83 
Our Board of Directors 25 Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity 
Board Leadership Structure 25 Compensation Plans 85 
Director Independence 28 Approval of the Amended and Restated PepsiCo, Inc. 
Belniadl Parson Taneactions 28 Long-Term Incentive Plan (Proxy Item No. 4) 86 
‘ : Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 94 
Committees of the Board of Directors 30 : d 
a ; ‘ ; Ownership of PepsiCo Common Stock 117 
he Board's Role in Strategy Oversight 33 i z 
fe : : : Information About the Annual Meeting 119 
he Board's Oversight of Risk Management 34 Veena rane 119 
The Board's Role in Human Capital Management and i bee aes ; 
Talent Development 36 Attending the Annual Meeting 121 
Shareholder and Stakeholder Engagement 39 2024 Proxy Materials 121 
Our Commitment to Sustainable Business Practices 4] Other Matters 123 
Political Contributions Policy 43 2025 Shareholder Proposals and Director Nominations 123 
Communications with the Board 43 Appendix A-Reconciliation of GAAP and 
2023 Director Compensation 44, pensar Information F a 
Appendix B-PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan B-1 


Ratification of Appointment of Independent 
Registered Public Accounting Firm (Proxy Item No. 2) 46 


WM “4 


This Proxy Statement of PepsiCo, Inc. (‘PepsiCo,” the ‘Company,’ “we,” “us” or “our’) contains statements reflecting our views about our future 
performance that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Reform Act’). 
Statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act are generally identified through the inclusion of words 

such as “aim,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “drive,” “estimate,” “expect,” “expressed confidence,” “forecast,” “future,” “goal,” “quidance,” “intend,” “may,” “objective,” 
“outlook,” “plan,” “position,” “potential,” “project,” “seek,” “should,” “strategy,” “target,” “will” or similar statements or variations of such words and other 

similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and 
trends. They inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in any such forward-looking 
statement. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the risks associated with the deadly conflict in Ukraine; future demand for PepsiCo’s 
products; damage to PepsiCo’s reputation or brand image; product recalls or other issues or concerns with respect to product quality and safety; PepsiCo’s 
ability to compete effectively; PepsiCo’s ability to attract, develop and maintain a highly skilled and diverse workforce or effectively manage changes in 

our workforce; water scarcity; changes in the retail landscape or in sales to any key customer; disruption of PepsiCo’s manufacturing operations or supply 
chain, including continued increased commodity, packaging, transportation, labor and other input costs; political, social or geopolitical conditions in the 
markets where PepsiCo’s products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold; PepsiCo’s ability to grow its business in developing and emerging markets; 
changes in economic conditions in the countries in which PepsiCo operates; future cyber incidents and other disruptions to our information systems; failure 
to successfully complete or manage strategic transactions; PepsiCo’s reliance on third-party service providers and enterprise-wide systems; climate change 
or measures to address climate change and other sustainability matters; strikes or work stoppages; failure to realize benefits from PepsiCo’s productivity 
initiatives; deterioration in estimates and underlying assumptions regarding future performance of our business or investments that can result in impairment 
charges; fluctuations or other changes in exchange rates; any downgrade or potential downgrade of PepsiCo’s credit ratings; imposition or proposed 
imposition of new or increased taxes aimed at PepsiCo's products; imposition of limitations on the marketing or sale of PepsiCo’s products; changes in laws 
and regulations related to the use or disposal of plastics or other packaging materials; failure to comply with personal data protection and privacy laws; 
increase in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or disagreements with tax authorities; failure to adequately protect PepsiCo’s intellectual property 
rights or infringement on intellectual property rights of others; failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations; and potential liabilities and costs 
from litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations. For additional information on these and other factors that could cause 
PepsiCo's actual results to materially differ from those set forth herein, please see PepsiCo'’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including 
its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such 
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. PepsiCo undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, 
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 


nu na wu, na wu, wu, nu wa 


wa wu Wu v4 


4 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Proxy State me nt This summary highlights certain information contained in this 


S Proxy Statement. You should read the entire Proxy Statement 
umma ry and 2023 Annual Report carefully before you vote. 


Vision: Winning with pep+ (PepsiCo Positive) 


Guiding PepsiCo is our vision to Be the Global Leader in Beverages and Convenient Foods by Winning with pep+. 
pep-+ is our strategic end-to-end transformation with sustainability and human capital at the center of how PepsiCo plans to 
create growth and shared value over the long-term. We are continuing to transform our business to drive positive change, 
working to deliver progress against our goals under each of the pep+ pillars. 


—A 

Positive Agriculture Positive Value Chain Positive Choices 
Work to source our crops Make products in a way Inspire people through our 

and ingredients in ways that helps build a circular brands to make choices 
that help restore the earth and inclusive value chain that create more smiles for 

and strengthen farming them and the planet 

‘6 pep p+ communities 
Pecos ae Net Zero Emissions; 


planet + people 


Sustainable Sourcing; Net Water Positive; 


Regenerative Sustainable Packaging; Expanded Offerings; 


Planet + People 
Brands 


Practices; Improved Meaningful Growth 
Livelihoods Opportunities; Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion 


For more information regarding our pep+ initiatives (including how we define certain terms), please visit 
www.pepsico.com/PepsiCoPositive.™ 


Matters to Be Voted on at Our 2024 Annual Meeting of Shareholders 


Shareholders will be asked to vote on the following matters at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders: 


Proxy Item Board Recommendation More Information 
Beginning on page 


1 Election of 15 director nominees iv) FOR each director nominee He 


Ratification of appointment of KPMG LLP as our 
2 independent registered public accounting firm iy) FOR 46 
for fiscal year 2024 


3 Advisory approval of executive compensation iv) FOR 49 


Approval of the amended and restated ~) 


PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan ren eo 


5-12 | Shareholder proposals (x) AGAINST 94 


{™ The information on any website mentioned in this Proxy Statement is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Proxy Statement or incorporated 
herein or into any of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC’). 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 5 


Proxy Statement Summary 


Director Nominees 


Our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and our Board have determined that the director nominees possess 
a broad range of attributes, viewpoints and experiences to effectively oversee PepsiCo’s long-term business strategy. The 
following table provides summary information about each director nominee. For more detailed information about our 
directors, please see “Election of Directors (Proxy Item No. 1)" beginning on page 11 of this Proxy Statement. 


Committee Membership 


Director 

Name Primary Occupation Since Age* Independent AC CC NCG SDPP 

Segun Agbaje Group Chief Executive Officer, Guaranty 3020-59 J FE 
Trust Holding Company Plc (GTCO Plc) 

Jennifer Bailey Vice President, Internet Services, Apple Pay, 3023 61 rr . 
Apple, Inc. 

Cesar Conde Chairman, NBCUniversal News Group 2016 50 v &% C) 

lan Cook Former Chairman, President 

(Presiding Director) and Chief Executive Officer, 2008 71 v e 
Colgate-Palmolive Company 

Edith W. Cooper Former Executive Vice President and 
Global Head, Human Capital Management, 2021 62 v e 
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 

Susan M. Diamond Chief Financial Officer, Humana, Inc. 2023 50 v E 

Dina Dublon Pomme! Executive Vice President and Chief 3005 70 gi . a 
Financial Officer, JPMorgan Chase & Co. 

Michelle Gass President and Chief Executive Officer, 3019 56 ee é 
Levi Strauss & Co. 

RamonL.Laguarta = Chairman of the Board and 018 60 
Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo 

Sir Dave J. Lewis Former Group Chief Executive Officer, Tesco 3020 59 “ ; 
PLC; Chair, Haleon plc; Chairman, Xlinks 

David C.Page,MD Professor, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology; Former Director and President, 2014 67 v td @ 
Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research 

Robert C. Pohlad President of various family-owned entities; 
Former Chairman and Chief Executive 2015 69 v ® é 
Officer, PepsiAmericas, Inc. 

Daniel Vasella, MD FORME! Chaitman and Chief Executive 3002 70 “ A A 
Officer, Novartis AG 

Darren Walker President, Ford Foundation 2016 64 v e < 

Alberto Weisser Former Chairman and Chief Executive 7011 68 a SE 


Officer, Bunge Limited 


* Ages areas of March 22, 2024 


& = Committee Chair 
@ = Committee Member 


AC = Audit Committee 
CC = Compensation Committee 


E = Audit Committee Financial Expert NCG = Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 


SDPP = Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy Committee 


6 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Director Nominee Highlights 


Proxy Statement Summary 


Director succession planning is a robust, ongoing process at PepsiCo. Our Board regularly evaluates desired attributes in light of 
the Company's strategy and evolving needs. We believe our 15 director nominees bring a diverse and well-rounded range of 
attributes, viewpoints and experiences, and represent an effective mix of deep company knowledge and fresh perspectives. 


-- Strong Board Diversity 


33% 
female nominees 


Diverse Representation 


5 female director nominees 


60% 


40% 
racially/ethnically 
diverse nominees 


female and/or 
racially/ethnically diverse 


3 Hispanic/Latinx director 
nominees 


3 African American/Black 
director nominees 


Diversity Highlights 


2 of 4 Standing Board Committees 
chaired by diverse directors: 


Cesar Conde (Compensation Committee Chair) 
and Darren Walker 
(Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy 
Committee Chair) 


1 female, racially diverse director 
elected in 2021: Edith W. Cooper 


2 female directors elected in 2023: 
Jennifer Bailey and Susan M. Diamond 


-- Range of Tenures* i 


o3Sss 
510 $$3355 
>10 $333 


Average Tenure: 7.9 Years 


0-4 


Mix of Ages* 

5059 $3333 
60-65 SSSS 

66+ S$S$S3S358 


Average Age: 62.4 
60% are 65 or younger 


Independent Oversight 


$335 55555555SS5 


14 of 15 independent director nominees 


All 4 Board Committees 
are independent 


* Tenure and age are as of March 22, 2024. 


Diverse Mix of Attributes 


Global 


| and Experiences 


Public Company CEO 


Financial Expertise/Financial 
Community 


Consumer Products 
Risk Management 
Public Policy 


Science/Medical/Research/Innovation 


Technology/Data Analytics/ 
e-commerce/Digital Marketing/Cyber 


Diversity 


Developing and Emerging Markets/ 
International Residence 


Perspective 


7 citizens 
of countries 


other than the 


United States 


11 of 15 director 
nominees with significant 
global experience 


For further information on these attributes and experiences, see page 21. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 7 


Proxy Statement Summary 


Executive Compensation At-a-Glance 


2023 PepsiCo Performance Highlights 


PepsiCo exceeded most of its performance goals in 2023 despite the ongoing challenging macroeconomic environment 
and inflationary pressures. We continued our progress on accelerating growth, while improving our revenue management 
capabilities. Highlights of our 2023 performance include: 


Sore Constant Free Cash Flow 


Organic Revenue Currency Earnings Excluding Certain Total Shareholder Cash Returned to 
[ Growth?! Per Share (“EPS”) | ai 9 Return (“TSR”) Shareholders 
tems 
Growth”! 
9.5% 14% $9.1 Billion -3.3% $7.7 Billion 


Noteworthy accomplishments in 2023 that foster sustainable shareholder value include: 


= Significant progress towards initiatives related to pep+, our strategic end-to-end transformation agenda with sustainability 
and human capital at the center of how we plan to create growth and shared value over the long-term 


= Continued investments in digital capabilities to strengthen all areas of the business 


= Broadening of holistic cost management initiatives to drive greater supply chain and distribution efficiencies, identify key 
areas for improvement throughout our value chain, and accelerate our Global Business Services model to further reduce 
general and administrative expenses 


We continued to deliver on our Faster, Stronger and Better aspirations to Be the Global Leader in Beverages and Convenient Foods by 
Winning with pep+. 


FASTER STRONGER BETTER 


Execution: Remained consumer-centric Digital Transformation: Accelerated pep+: Achieved significant progress across 
by focusing on driving our iconic brands, our digital strategy by expanding the all three pep+ pillars, including expanding 
accelerating portfolio transformation, deployment of critical digital solutions to regenerative agriculture, creating a circular 
delivering results through our geographic enable growth and productivity water system, reducing added sugar, and 
growth model, and achieving strong investing in our communities 

performance in high-growth channels 


Productivity: Implemented robust 
initiatives that helped unlock efficiencies Frontline: Focused on our human- 
Data Analytics: Leveraged analytics and and provided funding for key investments centric employee value proposition for 
data-driven capabilities to enable faster in our businesses to further support our frontline which included learning 
decision making, optimize our go-to- margin expansion solutions for career advancement and 
market distribution, and improve investments in work schedule flexibility 
in-store execution 


The Principles of Our Executive Compensation Program 


Our executive compensation program is designed to align the interests of PepsiCo’s executive officers with those of our 
shareholders. The Compensation Committee oversees and evaluates the program against competitive practices, regulatory 
developments, and corporate governance trends. 


The Compensation Committee has incorporated market-leading governance features into our programs that 

'v) include stringent clawback policies, rigorous stock ownership requirements, and challenging targets for incentive 
awards set at the beginning of the performance period taking into consideration our business strategy, operating 
goals, and external guidance. 


not have employment agreements or supplemental retirement plans, and we prohibit hedging or pledging of 


x) Our executive compensation program avoids shareholder-unfriendly features. For our executive officers, we do 
Company stock. 


"1 To evaluate performance in a manner consistent with how management evaluates our performance results and trends, the Compensation Committee 
applies certain Business Performance metrics that are not in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") as compensation 
performance measures to both long-term and annual incentive awards. Please refer to Appendix A to this Proxy Statement for a description and 
reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures relative to reported GAAP financial measures, and to pages 46-51 and 53 of PepsiCo's 2023 Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023 for a more detailed description of the items excluded from these measures. 


8 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Proxy Statement Summary 


2023 Target Pay Mix for Named Executive Officers 


To align pay levels for Named Executive Officers ("NEOs") with the Company's performance, our pay mix places the greatest 
emphasis on performance-based incentives. 


CHAIRMAN AND CEO TARGET PAY MIX NEO AVERAGE TARGET PAY MIX 
(EXCLUDING CHAIRMAN AND CEO) 
Performance-Based Compensation 92% Performance-Based Compensation 87% 
8% 13% 
Base Salary Base Salary 


Ey 17% ae 21% 


Annual Incentive Annual Incentive 


75% 66% 
Long-Term Incentive Long-Term Incentive 


Compensation Highlights 


Reflecting our pay-for-performance compensation philosophy and based on performance summarized above and presented 
in detail below, our sustained results delivered to shareholders translated into above-target payouts of annual incentive awards, 
Performance Stock Units, and Long-Term Cash awards. 


2023 Annual Incentive Payout (% of target) 
Annual 1-year 5 ; 
lincantive | 2023 performance period Overall, PepsiCo achieved strong 1 67% Average 
performance for the year. for all NEOs 
Long-Term : 
iasanelees | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023 | 3-year performance period 
Performance Stock Units (“PSU”) Long-Term Cash (“LTC”) Awards 
3-Yr Average of Annual Core Constant Currency EPS Growth"! 
Threshold Target Max 
5.0% 7.0% 10.3% 
50% Actual Result: 12.2% 
weighting i aay 
40% 100% 200% 3-Yr Relative TSR Percentile vs. Proxy Peer Group 
Payout Payout Payout Threshold Target Max 


25th %ile 50th %ile 100th %ile 


+ 100% Actual Result:| 74th %ile 


weighting ae 

3-Yr Average of Annual Organic Revenue Growth® 50% 100% 200% 
Threshold Target Max Payout Payout Payout 

3.1% 4.3% 5.5% 

50% Actual Result: 11.1%) 
weighting ss 
20% 100% 200% 
Payout Payout Payout 


Payout (% of target) 200% Payout (% of target) 1 48% 


5) For further information on PepsiCo's three-year average Core Constant Currency EPS Growth and Organic Revenue Growth compensation performance 
measures, which are non-GAAP financial measures, please refer to Appendix A to this Proxy Statement. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 9 


Proxy Statement Summary 


Corporate Governance Highlights 


Our Corporate Governance Policies Reflect Best Practices 


Many of our corporate governance practices are a result of valuable feedback and collaboration with our shareholders and 
other stakeholders who have provided important external viewpoints that inform our decisions and our strategy. 


For example: 


= The Board amended our Corporate Governance Guidelines: 
- in 2024 to specifically state that the Board will consider a director's past shareholder vote in director elections when 
determining whether to accept a resignation offer of a director who does not receive majority vote support, in 
response to the theoretical concern raised in a shareholder proposal received this year about directors failing to receive 


majority vote support for multiple years; 


- in 2021 to mention food safety and cybersecurity as areas of Board oversight to reflect existing practices; 


I I 
OS oS 


2019 to decrease the total number of public company boards that a non-executive director can serve on from 5 to 4 
nd establish a limit of 2 total public company boards for directors who are public company executive officers; and 
2018 to underscore the Board's focus on diversity, by explicitly stating its commitment to actively seeking out highly 
ualified women and minority candidates, as well as candidates with diverse backgrounds, skills and experiences, to 
nclude in the pool from which Board nominees are chosen. 


= The Compensation Committee adopted a cash severance policy under which the Company will seek shareholder 
ratification of new severance agreements with an executive officer that provides for certain cash severance benefits 
exceeding 2.99 times the sum of the executive officer's base salary and target annual incentive award (or average of prior 
three years of actual annual incentive awards, if greater). 


We published a global workforce demographics data report and our 2022 U.S. Consolidated EEO-1 Report as submitted to 


the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, available at www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics-a-z/employee- 
demographics. 


= The Board established a Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy Committee in 2017. The Committee assists the Board in 
providing more focused oversight over PepsiCo’s policies and programs and related risks that concern key sustainability, 
diversity, equity and inclusion and public policy matters. 


Independent 
Oversight 


14 of 15 director nominees are independent (all except for the CEO) 

Independent Presiding Director with clearly defined and robust responsibilities 

Regular executive sessions of independent directors at Board meetings (chaired by independent Presiding 
Director) and Committee meetings (chaired by independent Committee Chairs) 

100% independent Board Committees 

Active Board oversight of the Company's strategy and risk management, including sustainability, 
cybersecurity, food safety, human capital management, including diversity, equity and inclusion and talent 
development, and supply chain and commodity inflation 


Board 
Refreshment 


Comprehensive, ongoing Board succession planning process 


Focus on diversity (2 female directors elected in 2023 and 1 female director elected in 2021; 60% of director 
nominees are female and/or racially/ethnically diverse 


Regular Board refreshment and mix of tenure of directors (6 director nominees joined in the last five years) 


Annual Board and Committee assessments, including individual director assessments facilitated by a third 
party in 2023 


Mandatory retirement age of 75 
Comprehensive director orientation and ongoing director education 


Shareholder 
Rights 


Annual election of all directors 

Proxy access right for shareholders 

Majority-vote and director resignation policy for directors in uncontested elections 
20% of shareholders are able to call special meeting 

One class of outstanding shares with each share entitled to one vote 


Good 
Governance 
Practices 


Prohibition on hedging or pledging Company stock 

Stringent clawback policy applicable to directors and executives 

Rigorous director and executive stock ownership requirements 

Active and ongoing shareholder engagement program 

Global Code of Conduct applicable to directors and all employees with annual compliance certification 
Extensive management of sustainability risks and opportunities throughout our value chain 

Robust political activities disclosures on our website 


10 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Election of Directors (Proxy Item No. 1) 


Upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, our Board of Directors has nominated 
the 15 persons identified on the following pages for election at the 2024 Annual Meeting. If elected, the nominees will hold 
office as directors from election until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders and until their successors are elected and 
qualified or until their death, resignation or removal. All of the nominees are currently PepsiCo directors who were elected by 
shareholders at the 2023 Annual Meeting. 


Our Board has a comprehensive, ongoing director succession planning process designed to provide for a highly independent, 
well-qualified Board, with the diversity, experience and background to be effective and to provide strong oversight. Our Board 
regularly evaluates the needs of the Company and adds new attributes, viewpoints and experiences to the Board as necessary 
to best position the Company to navigate through a constantly changing global landscape. 


Our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and our Board have determined that the director nominees possess 
a diverse and balanced mix of attributes, viewpoints and experiences to effectively oversee PepsiCo’s long-term business 
strategy. Biographical information about each nominee, as well as highlights of certain notable skills, qualifications, attributes 
and experiences that contributed to the nominee's selection for election at our 2024 Annual Meeting, are included on the 
following pages. 


Our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and our Board are keenly focused on ensuring that a wide range 

of backgrounds, attributes, viewpoints and experiences are represented on our Board. The chart below summarizes certain 
notable attributes and experiences of each director nominee and highlights the diverse and balanced mix of attributes and 
experiences of the Board as a whole. These are the same attributes that the Board considers as part of its ongoing director 
succession planning process and align with the needs of PepsiCo’s long-term business strategy. This high-level summary is not 
intended to be an exhaustive list of each director nominee's contributions to the Board. 


3 6 
= € ¢ = - & 
eirsshig,ses2ig i 
Attributes/Experiences “HH HH HH FH Hf 8. 
Public Company CEO iv) 0909 09 iv) 
Financial Expertise/Financial Community (v) 00090 vy) iv) VE) 
Consumer Products iv) iv) vy) 0090 (Vv) 
RiskManagement OS 
PublicPolicy |= Ss CCC“‘(‘NSUUUUCi‘(dz«aQ®. OU? hO—? Oo OU OOO 
Science/Medical/Research/Innovation iv) iv) 
Technology/Data Analytics/e-commerce/Digital Marketing/Cyber 0 @ 
Diversity 0909 90900090 (v) 
Developing and Emerging Markets/International Residence (v) (VE) 0009 090909 
Demographic Background 
African American or Black (v) (v) iv) 
Hispanic or Latinx (vy) (v) (v) 
White o 9 990090 990090 9 
Two or More Races or Ethnicities (v) 
Gender 
Female iv) 090909 


Male (v) (Vv) 00909090909 
Our Nasdaq Board Diversity Matrix is posted on our website at www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics-a-z/employee- 
demographics#nasdaq-matrix. 


-- Diverse Board Representation Range of Tenures* Mix of Ages* 


female ae Beare at o3Sss aM) $3sss 
s Hispanic’ |) 510 S$SSSSE | 5 S888 
10 $SS38 66+ $3$S3S35 


Average Tenure: Average Age: 62.4 
7.9 Years 60% are 65 or younger 


60% 40% 
racially/ethnically 


diverse nominees | 3 African 
American/ 


Black 


female and/or 
racially/ethnically diverse 


* Tenure and age are as of March 22, 2024. 
PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 11 


Election of Directors (Proxy Item No. 1) 


Additionally, all directors are expected to possess personal traits such as candor, integrity and professionalism and must be able 
to commit significant time to the Company's oversight. For additional information on the Board selection process, including the 


Board's consideration of diversity, see “Board Composition and Refreshment” on pages 20-23 of this Proxy Statement. 


Although our Board does not anticipate that any of the nominees will be unable to stand for election as a director at our 
Annual Meeting, if this occurs, proxies will be voted in favor of such other person or persons as may be designated by our 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and our Board. 


Director Election Requirements and Majority-Vote Policy 


All members of the Board are elected annually by our shareholders by a majority of the votes cast in an uncontested election 
(i.e.,an election where the number of nominees is not greater than the number of directors to be elected), meaning that the 
number of votes cast “for” a director must exceed the number of votes cast “against” that director in order to elect the director 
to the Board. In a contested election, where the number of director nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, 


directors would be elected by a plurality vote. 


Under our Director Resignation Policy set forth in our Corporate Governance Guidelines, if a director nominee in an 
uncontested election who is an incumbent director receives more votes “against” than votes “for” election, he or she must 
offer to resign from the Board. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will make a recommendation to the 
Board on the resignation offer. Within 90 days following certification of the shareholder vote, the independent directors will 
determine whether to accept the director's resignation, considering the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, 
including but not limited to: (i) the level of shareholder support the director has received in prior elections, (ii) any stated 
reasons why shareholders voted against such director, (iii) any alternatives for curing the underlying cause of the “against” 
votes, (iv) the director's tenure and qualifications; (v) the director's past and expected future contributions to the company; 
and (vi) the overall composition of the Board. To be responsive to the theoretical concern raised in a shareholder proposal 
received this year about directors failing to receive majority support for multiple years, the Board amended the Corporate 
Governance Guidelines earlier in 2024 to explicitly state that the Board will consider the level of shareholder support the 


director has received in prior elections. 


The Company will promptly publicly disclose such determination. A director who offers to resign pursuant to this Policy may 
not be present during the deliberations or voting by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee or the Board as to 


whether to accept the resignation offer. 


Director Nominees 


oO 


following director nominees: 


Segun Agbaje 


Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “FOR” the election of each of the 


Independent Committee 


Director Since: 2020 Memberships: 
Age: 59 = Audit 


Segun Agbaje has served since 2021 as Group Chief Executive 
Officer of Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc (GTCO Plc), 

a Nigerian multinational financial institution. He previously 
served as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 

of Guaranty Trust Bank plc from 2011 to 2021. Mr. Agbaje 
joined Guaranty Trust Bank as a pioneer staff member in 1991 
and held positions of increasing responsibility, including as 
Executive Director from 2000 to 2002, Deputy Managing 
Director from 2002 to 2011 and as Acting Managing Director 
in 2011. Prior to joining Guaranty Trust Bank, Mr. Agbaje 
served as an auditor at Ernst & Young LLP from 1988 to 1990. 
Mr. Agbaje currently serves on the boards of Guaranty Trust 
Bank (UK) Limited, Guaranty Trust Bank (Rwanda) Limited, and 
Guaranty Trust Bank (Tanzania) Limited. He is also a director 
on the MasterCard Advisory Board (the Middle East and 
Africa). In 2024, Mr. Agbaje was appointed an International 
Ambassador of the Swiss Red Cross. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 

® Current: Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc (GTCO Plc) 

= Previous (During Past 5 Years): Guaranty Trust Bank plc 
(until 2021) 


12 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Skills and Qualifications 


Mr. Agbaje brings to our Board of Directors deep 
knowledge of financial and banking matters and financial 
expertise gained from his over 30 years of experience 

in the financial services industry. He also contributes a 
valuable understanding of complex businesses and fast- 
growing markets, particularly Sub-Saharan Africa where 
PepsiCo acquired Pioneer Food Group Ltd. as part of its 
strategy to expand in the region. His knowledge and 
experience of embracing and scaling new technologies 
and critical capabilities are valuable as PepsiCo continues 
to invest in opportunities that create shareholder value. 


Jennifer Bailey 


Director Since: 2023 
Age: 61 


Election of Directors (Proxy Item No. 1) 


Independent Committee 
Memberships: h 
= Audit . 


Jennifer Bailey has served as Vice President, Internet 
Services, Apple Pay at Apple Inc., an American multinational 
technology company, since 2014. Ms. Bailey oversaw the 
launches of: Apple Pay, Apple's transformative category of 
mobile payments services which is available in more than 

70 countries; Apple Wallet, which now enables millions of 
customers to securely store and access transit cards, loyalty 
cards, contactless tickets and more on their iPhones or 
Apple Watch; and Apple Card, which was designed to help 
customers lead healthier financial lives through a digital-first, 
no fee, credit card. She leads global teams across Apple's 
payment and commerce services, including Apple Pay, Apple 
Wallet, Apple Card, Apple Cash, Tap to Pay on iPhone, and 


Apple Gift Cards, and oversees the expansion of such services. 


Ms. Bailey previously served as Vice President, WW Online 
Stores at Apple from 2003 to 2014. Prior to Apple, Ms. Bailey 
was Senior Vice President, Online Services and Operations 

at myCFO, a financial services firm, from 1999 to 2001. She 
also served as Senior Vice President, Netcenter at Netscape 
Communications Inc. from 1995 to 1999. Ms. Bailey currently 
serves on the board of governors for the American Red Cross. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 


® Current: None 
= Previous (During Past 5 Years): None 


Cesar Conde 


Director Since: 2016 
Age: 50 


Cesar Conde has served as Chairman of the NBCUniversal 
ews Group, part of a global media and entertainment 
company, since 2020. In this role, Mr. Conde has oversight of 
BC News, MSNBC, CNBC, Telemundo, and NBCU Local. From 
2015 to 2020, Mr. Conde served as Chairman of NBCUniversal 


From 2013 to 2015, he served as Executive Vice President at 
BCUniversal, where he oversaw NBCUniversal International 

and NBCUniversal Digital Enterprises. From 2009 to 2013, 

r. Conde served as President of Univision Networks, a 

eading American media company with a portfolio of 

Spanish language television networks, radio stations and 

digital platforms. From 2003 to 2009, Mr. Conde served 

in a variety of senior executive capacities at Univision 

etworks and is credited with transforming it into a leading 

global, multi-platform media brand. Prior to Univision, 

r. Conde served as the White House Fellow for Secretary 

of State Colin L. Powell from 2002 to 2003. Mr. Conde 

also currently serves on the boards of several non-profit 

organizations, including the Council on Foreign Relations and 

The Aspen Institute. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 


= Current: Walmart Inc. 
= Previous (During Past 5 Years): Owens Corning (until 2019) 


nternational Group and NBCUniversal Telemundo Enterprises. 


Skills and Qualifications 


Ms. Bailey brings to our Board of Directors extensive 
knowledge of the information technology field, including 
digital and payments expertise, and consumer marketing 
gained from her over 20 years of experience leading 
various functions at Apple Inc. PepsiCo benefits from 

Ms. Bailey's experience and deep interest in contributing 
to environmental, social, and governance initiatives 

for Apple and significant business and technological 
innovation expertise that helps the Company successfully 
navigate the rapidly changing digital landscape. In 
addition, Ms. Bailey possesses a strong international 
management and consumer business background, 

as well as board oversight experience as a result of 

her role as a director at one of the largest, U.S-based 
non-profit organizations. 


Independent Committee 
Memberships: 


= Compensation 
= Nominating and 


Corporate Governance 


Skills and Qualifications 


Mr. Conde is an experienced global executive with a 
strong track record in business, finance and media. 
He provides our Board of Directors with diverse 

and actionable perspectives on today’s consumer 
and media landscapes, and his unique insights are 
particularly valuable as PepsiCo continues to build 
new omnichannel marketing capabilities and adapt 
to changing demographics around the world. 

Mr. Conde also brings his market and consumer insights 
developed through his experience at national and 
global media companies and his leadership of social 
and corporate responsibility initiatives worldwide. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 13 


Election of Directors (Proxy Item No. 1) 


lan Cook 
PRESIDING DIRECTOR 


Director Since: 2008 
Age: 71 


Independent Committee 

Memberships: 

= Nominating and Corporate 
Governance 


ae 


lan Cook served as a director of Colgate-Palmolive Company, 
a multinational consumer products company, from 2007 to 
2020, as its Chairman from 2009 to 2019 and as its Executive 
Chairman from 2019 until his retirement in 2020. Mr. Cook 
joined Colgate-Palmolive in the United Kingdom in 1976 
and progressed through a series of senior management 
roles around the world. In 2002, he became Executive Vice 
President, North America and Europe. In 2004, he became 
Chief Operating Officer, with responsibility for operations 

in North America, Europe, Asia and Africa, and in 2005, he 
became responsible for all Colgate-Palmolive operations 
worldwide, serving as President and Chief Operating Officer 
from 2005 to 2007. He served most recently as Colgate- 
Palmolive’s President and Chief Executive Officer from 2007 
to 2018 and as Chief Executive Officer from 2018 to 2019. 

Mr. Cook also serves on the boards of several non-profit 
organizations, including Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New Visions for Public Schools and Caramoor Center 
for Music and the Arts. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 

® Current: None 

= Previous (During Past 5 Years): Colgate-Palmolive Company 
(until 2020) 


Edith W. Cooper 


Director Since: 2021 
Age: 62 


Skills and Qualifications 


Mr. Cook brings to our Board of Directors deep 
knowledge of the consumer products industry and 
operational leadership experience gained through his 
40-plus year career at Colgate-Palmolive, including 

his 12 years as CEO and his direct involvement in both 

isk management and risk oversight. His extensive 
understanding of our business and his experience leading 
a multinational consumer products company make him 
uniquely positioned as PepsiCo's Presiding Director to 
work collaboratively with our Chairman and CEO. He also 
contributes a broad understanding of industry trends 
and his extensive global leadership experience gained 
from holding a variety of senior management roles at 
Colgate-Palmolive in numerous countries throughout 
the world. Mr. Cook's qualifications also include expertise 
in finance, brand-building, corporate governance, 
human capital management and talent development 
and succession planning. 


= 


Independent Committee 
Memberships: 
= Audit 


Edith W. Cooper spent over two decades of her career with 
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., most recently serving as 
Executive Vice President and Global Head, Human Capital 
Management from 2011 to 2017 and Managing Director and 
Global Head, Human Capital Management from 2008 to 2011. 
Ms. Cooper began her career in derivative sales at Morgan 
Stanley from 1991 to 1996 and Bankers Trust Company from 
1986 to 1991. Ms. Cooper co-founded Medley, a membership- 
based community for personal and professional growth, in 
2020. Ms. Cooper also serves on the board of directors of 
several non-profit organizations, including the Museum of 
Modern Art, the Smithsonian National Museum of African 
American History and Culture and Mount Sinai Hospital. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 


= Current: Amazon.com, Inc. 

= Previous (During Past 5 Years): MSD Acquisition Corp (until 
2023); EQT AB (until 2022); Slack Technologies, Inc. (until 
2021); Etsy, Inc. (until 2021) 


14 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Skills and Qualifications 


Ms. Cooper brings to our Board of Directors extensive 
knowledge of the human resources field, including 
recruiting and talent development, gained from almost 
a decade of experience leading the human capital 
management function at Goldman Sachs. PepsiCo 
benefits from her significant talent management 
expertise in attracting and developing high-quality 
talent and advancing its commitment to diversity, 
equity and inclusion. In addition, she possesses a 
strong financial background through over 30 years 

of experience in management and sales leadership 
at leading organizations across the financial 

services industry. Ms. Cooper also has significant 
corporate governance and executive compensation 
experience across multiple industries as a result of 
her board service at other public companies. 


Susan M. Diamond 


Director Since: 2023 
Age: 50 


Election of Directors (Proxy Item No. 1) 


Independent Committee 
Memberships: 
= Audit 


Susan M. Diamond has been serving as Chief Financial 
Officer of Humana Inc., an integrated health and wellness 
company, since 2021. Ms. Diamond previously served as 
President, Home Solutions of Humana from 2019 to 2021 

and Senior Vice President, Medicare of Humana from 2017 

to 2019. Ms. Diamond joined Humana in 2006 and has spent 
the majority of her career in various financial and operational 
leadership roles in the Medicare and Home businesses of 
Humana. Prior to Humana, Ms. Diamond spent six years 
working in various financial leadership roles for early stage, 
venture backed technology companies, and five years as the 
Chief Financial Officer for a Louisville-based venture capital 
firm, working with early stage companies across a variety 

of industries. She currently serves on the boards of several 
private entities in which Humana has an ownership interest as 
well as the Louisville Orchestra. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 


= Current: None 
= Previous (During Past 5 Years): None 


Dina Dublon 


Director Since: 2005 
Age: 70 


Dina Dublon served as Executive Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer at JPMorgan Chase & Co., a leading global 
financial services company, from 1998 until her retirement 
in 2004. In this role, she was responsible for global financial 
management, corporate treasury, tax and investor relations. 
s. Dublon previously held numerous positions at JPMorgan 
Chase and its predecessor companies, including corporate 
treasurer, managing director of the financial institutions 
division and head of asset liability management. Ms. Dublon 
also previously served on the boards of Microsoft, Accenture, 
and Deutsche Bank AG and on the faculty of Harvard Business 
School. She has served on the boards of several non-profit 
organizations, and currently chairs the board of advisors of 
the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, 
and serves on the board of directors of The Hastings Center 
and the Westchester Land Trust. Ms. Dublon currently serves 
on the independent audit quality committee of Ernst & 
Young LLP. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 

= Current: T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. 

= Previous (During Past 5 Years): Motive Capital Corp II (until 
2023); Motive Capital Corp (until 2022) 


Skills and Qualifications 


Ms. Diamond brings to our Board of Directors deep 
knowledge of financial, accounting, strategic, and 
healthcare matters gained from her over 15-year career 
in the healthcare industry, particularly through her roles 
as Chief Financial Officer and President of the Home 
Solutions business of Humana Inc. She also contributes 
valuable insights on growth and innovation including 
consumer segmentation strategies, data analytics, and 
cutting-edge consumer focused technologies, as well as 
sustainability and diversity, equity and inclusion obtained 
through her experience with advancing healthcare equity 
at Humana. In addition, through her experiences serving 
as a Chief Financial Officer and President of an operating 
unit of a large public company, Ms. Diamond also 

offers operational leadership experience and extensive 
experience with strategic, financial, risk, and compliance 
issues, as well as risk management. 


Independent Committee 
Memberships: 

= Compensation 

® Sustainability, Diversity and 
Public Policy 


Skills and Qualifications 


Ms. Dublon brings to our Board of Directors deep 
expertise in financial, accounting, strategic and banking 
matters and capital markets operations gained from her 
distinguished career in the financial services industry, 
particularly through her role as Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer of JPMorgan Chase. She 

also contributes valuable risk management insights 
obtained through her experience at JPMorgan Chase, as 
well as from her service on the boards of several other 
public companies, including T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. 

In addition, Ms. Dublon offers unique perspectives on 
emerging markets, public policy and sustainability-related 
matters gained while working with global non-profit 
organizations focusing on public health and women’s 
issues and initiatives. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 15 


Election of Directors (Proxy Item No. 1) 


Michelle Gass Independent Committee Y _\ 
Memberships: OES. 

Director Since: 2019 = Sustainability, Diversity and oy AS 

Age: 56 Public Policy ‘eg wy ~ 


Michelle Gass has served as President and Chief Executive 
Officer of Levi Strauss & Co. since January 2024 and as 
President of Levi's in 2023. Prior to that, Ms. Gass served as 
Chief Executive Officer and a director of Kohl's Corporation, 
a leading omnichannel retailer, from 2018 to 2022 and as 
its Chief Executive Officer elect and Chief Merchandising & 
Customer Officer from 2017 to 2018, Chief Merchandising 
& Customer Officer from 2015 to 2017, and Chief Customer 
Officer from 2013 to 2015. Prior to joining Kohl's, Ms. Gass 
served in a variety of management positions with Starbucks 
Corporation from 1996 to 2013, including most recently 

as President, Starbucks EMEA (Europe, Middle East and 

Africa) from 2011 to 2013; President, Seattle’s Best Coffee; 
Executive Vice President, Global Marketing and Category; and 
various leadership roles in other brand, marketing, product 
management and strategy functions. Prior to Starbucks, 

Ms. Gass was with The Procter & Gamble Company. Ms. Gass 
currently serves on the boards of the Retail Industry Leaders 
Association and the National Retail Federation. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 


® Current: Levi Strauss & Co. 
= Previous (During Past 5 Years): Kohl’s Corporation (until 2022) 


Ramon L. Laguarta 


Director Since: 2018 
Age: 60 


Skills and Qualifications 


Ms. Gass brings to our Board of Directors deep knowledge 
of the omnichannel retail and consumer products 
industries gained from over 30 years of experience in 

retail and consumer goods industries, both domestically 
and internationally. PepsiCo benefits from her extensive 
understanding of marketing, product innovation and 
consumer branding from her various roles at Levi's, 

Kohl's, Starbucks, and Procter & Gamble. As we continue 
to strengthen our omnichannel capabilities to address 
evolving consumer preferences, Ms. Gass’ insights in 
accelerating growth in direct-to-consumer channels 

and building omnichannel capabilities at Levi's, as well 

as driving significant capabilities in digital and growing 
the e-commerce business during her time at Kohl's, are 
particularly helpful. In addition, through her experiences 
leading large public companies, Kohl's and Levi's, 

and operating businesses at Starbucks, Ms. Gass also 
offers operational leadership experience, leading and 
developing strong management teams, as well as creating 
and implementing strategic plans. 


Ramon L. Laguarta has served as PepsiCo’s Chief Executive 
Officer and a director on the Board since 2018, and assumed 
the role of Chairman of the Board in 2019. Mr. Laguarta 
previously served as President of PepsiCo from 2017 to 2018. 
Prior to serving as President, Mr. Laguarta held a variety of 
positions of increasing responsibility in Europe, including 

as Commercial Vice President of PepsiCo Europe from 2006 
to 2008, PepsiCo Eastern Europe Region from 2008 to 2012, 
President, Developing & Emerging Markets, PepsiCo Europe 
from 2012 to 2015, Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo Europe in 
2015, and Chief Executive Officer, Europe Sub-Saharan Africa 
from 2015 until 2017. From 2002 to 2006, he was General 
Manager for Iberia Snacks and Juices, and from 1999 to 

2001, a General Manager for Greece Snacks. Prior to joining 
PepsiCo in 1996 as a marketing vice president for Spain 
Snacks, Mr. Laguarta worked for Chupa Chups, S.A., where he 
worked in several international assignments in Asia, Europe, 
the Middle East and the United States. He also currently serves 
as the Co-Chair of the World Economic Forum's Board of 
Stewards for the Food Systems Initiative. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 


® Current: Visa Inc. 
= Previous (During Past 5 Years): None 


16 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Skills and Qualifications 


Mr. Laguarta brings to our Board of Directors strong 
leadership skills and extensive consumer packaged 
goods experience gained from the 20-plus years he 
spent in a variety of senior operational and executive 
roles at PepsiCo, Mr. Laguarta also contributes invaluable 
perspectives on the global marketplace and sustainability 
gained from his numerous international senior 
management positions, including living in Europe and 
leading the Europe Sub-Saharan Africa division, which has 
operations that span three continents and is comprised 
of developed, developing and emerging markets. A 
native of Barcelona, he speaks multiple languages 
including English, Spanish, French, German and Greek. 
Through his leadership of the Europe Sub-Saharan Africa 
division and then as President of PepsiCo, he offers deep 
experience in strategic planning, operations, marketing, 
brand development and logistics. His role as Chairman 
and CEO of PepsiCo creates a critical link between 
management and the Board of Directors, enabling 

the Board to perform its oversight function with the 
benefit of management's perspective on the business. 


Sir Dave J. Lewis 


Director Since: 2020 
Age: 59 


Election of Directors (Proxy Item No. 1) 


Independent Committee 
Memberships: \ 
® Sustainability, Diversity 

and Public Policy 


Sir Dave J. Lewis served as Group Chief Executive Officer of 
Tesco PLC, a multinational grocery and general merchandise 
retailer, from 2014 until 2020. Prior to joining Tesco, he served 
in a variety of management positions with Unilever PLC, 
global consumer products company, from 1987 to 2014, 
including a variety of leadership roles in Europe, Asia and the 
Americas, including as President, Personal Care from 2011 to 
2014; President, Americas from 2010 to 2011; and Chairman, 
UK and Ireland from 2007 to 2010. Sir Dave currently serves 
as Chair of Haleon plc, a UK-based multinational consumer 
healthcare company, and Chairman of Xlinks, and also 

serves on the boards of several non-profit and charitable 
organizations, including as Chair of World Wildlife Fund — UK. 
He also serves as an operating advisor to funds of Clayton, 
Dubilier & Rice, a global private equity firm. Sir Dave was chair 
of Champions 12.3, a UN program seeking to add momentum 
to the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development 
Target 12.3 by 2030, and co-chair of the Consumer, Retail 

and Life Sciences Business Council, which was established 

to advise the Prime Minister of the UK. In addition, he served 
as co-chair of the Supply Chain Advisory Group for the UK 
government during 2021. In recognition of his contribution 
to business and the food industry in the UK, Sir Dave was 
knighted by Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II in the 2021 New 
Year's Honours List. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 


= Current: Haleon plc 
= Previous (During Past 5 Years): Tesco PLC (until 2020) 


fev) 


David C. Page, MD 


Director Since: 2014 
Age: 67 


David C. Page, MD, is a professor of biology at Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology ("MIT") and the Whitehead Institute 
for Biomedical Research, an independent non-profit 
research and educational institute affiliated with MIT and 

an investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. His 
research focuses on the genetic and molecular differences 
between males and females, and the roles that these 
differences play in health and disease. He served as Director 
and President of the Whitehead Institute from 2005 to 2020. 
In this role, he led a group of scientists focused on cancer 
research, genetics, genomics, developmental biology, 

stem cell research, regenerative medicine, parasitic disease 
and plant biology. His honors include a MacArthur Prize 
Fellowship, Science magazine's Top Ten Scientific Advances 
of the Year (in 1992 and again in 2003) and the 2011 March 
of Dimes Prize in Developmental Biology. He is a member of 
the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of 
Medicine and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 
Dr. Page serves as chair of the Visiting Committee for Harvard 
Medical School and Harvard School of Dental Medicine. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 


= Current: None 
= Previous (During Past 5 Years): None 


Skills and Qualifications 


Sir Dave brings to our Board of Directors a wealth of 
international consumer experience and expertise in 
business strategy, brand management and customer 
development through his significant experience 

over three decades in both retail and consumer- 
packaged goods industries. He contributes a unique, 
global perspective on consumer centricity, retail 
strategy, operations, and supply chain management 
for consumer-facing brands. Through his experience 
leading Champions 12.3 and working with non-profit 
and charitable organizations, he also provides valuable 
knowledge of sustainability-related matters and the role 
of business in society as PepsiCo continues to focus on 
its sustainability goals and pursue strategies to drive 
sustainable long-term growth. 


Independent Committee 

Memberships: 

= Compensation 

® Sustainability, Diversity and 
Public Policy 


, + wae 
Skills and Qualifications 


Dr. Page brings to our Board of Directors his scientific 
and medical expertise, gained from over 30 years of 
experience in those fields, and a unique perspective 

on the intersection of academic and commercial 
scientific research of interest to companies in the food 
and beverage industry. His perspectives are particularly 
valuable in light of PepsiCo's strategic focus on the areas 
of nutrition and health and wellness. Dr. Page’s experience 
with producing significant scientific discoveries and 
innovative breakthroughs is highly relevant to PepsiCo’s 
esearch and development initiatives, innovation pipeline 
and sustainability goals in an environment of shifting 
consumer preferences and regulatory initiatives. 


= 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 17 


Election of Directors (Proxy Item No. 1) 


Robert C. Pohlad 


Independent Committee 
Memberships: 
= Compensation 


Director Since: 2015 = Nominating and 
Age: 69 Corporate Governance 


Robert C. Pohlad has served since 1987 as President of Pohlad 
Holdings, a company of various family-owned entities which 
operate multiple businesses across a number of industries, 
including commercial real estate, automation and robotic 
engineering, and sports and entertainment. From 2002 

until its acquisition by PepsiCo in 2010, Mr. Pohlad was 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiAmericas, Inc., 
an independent publicly traded company. PepsiAmericas, 
Inc. was formed from several independent bottlers in 1998, 
and, under Mr. Pohlad’s tenure, it grew to become the 
second-largest bottler of PepsiCo products at the time of its 
acquisition. Previously, Mr. Pohlad held several other executive 
positions at bottling companies. Mr. Pohlad is a member of 
the Board of Trustees of the University of Puget Sound and a 
member and chair of the Board of Visitors of the University of 
Minnesota Medical School. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 


= Current: None 
= Previous (During Past 5 Years): None 


Daniel Vasella, MD 


Director Since: 2002 
Age: 70 


Skills and Qualifications 


Mr. Pohlad brings to our Board of Directors extensive 
beverage and finance experience gained from the 20- 
plus years he spent in a variety of senior operational and 
executive roles at PepsiAmericas, Inc. and its predecessors. 
Mr. Pohlad has a deep understanding of leveraging large- 
scale distribution systems and global brands, specifically 
with respect to beverage and bottling operations, 

which is invaluable to PepsiCo. In addition, through his 
experience operating businesses and investments in 
myriad fields, Mr. Pohlad has gained expertise leading 
and developing strong management teams, creating 

and implementing effective strategic plans, addressing 
succession planning needs and brand-building. 


Independent Committee 

Memberships: 

= Compensation - 

= Nominating and ey 
Corporate Governance . 


Daniel Vasella, MD, served as Chairman of Novartis AG, a 
global innovative healthcare solutions company, from 1999 to 
2013 and as Chief Executive Officer of Novartis AG from 1996 
to 2010. From 1992 to 1996, Dr. Vasella held the positions of 
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Senior Vice 
President and Head of Worldwide Development and Head of 
Corporate Marketing at Sandoz Pharma Ltd. He also served 

at Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation from 1988 to 1992. 

Dr. Vasella is currently working as a coach to senior executives. 
He also serves on the boards of several private companies. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 


= Current: American Express Company; SciClone 
Pharmaceuticals (Holdings) Limited 
= Previous (During Past 5 Years): None 


18 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Skills and Qualifications 


Dr. Vasella brings to our Board of Directors his expertise 
in the areas of nutrition and health and wellness, topics 
of importance to PepsiCo, as well as his leadership 
experience and global perspectives, which he obtained 
through his former role as Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer of Novartis. Through his leadership of Novartis and 
his public company director experience, he also offers 
to PepsiCo extensive business, corporate governance, 
operations, management and marketing skills, as well as 
human capital management and talent development, 
succession planning and experience developing 
corporate strategy. In addition, he contributes his 
knowledge of and experience with regulatory matters 
developed through his role leading a highly regulated, 
global business in rapidly changing markets. 


Darren Walker 


Director Since: 2016 
Age: 64 


Darren Walker has served since 2013 as President of the Ford 
Foundation, a philanthropic organization, and as its Vice 
President for Education, Creativity and Free Expression from 
2010 to 2013. Prior to the Ford Foundation, Mr. Walker joined 
the Rockefeller Foundation, a philanthropic organization, 

in 2002 and served as a Vice President responsible for 
foundation initiatives from 2005 to 2010. From 1995 to 

2002, he was the Chief Operating Officer of Abyssinian 
Development Corporation, a community development 
organization in Harlem in New York City. Prior to that, 

Mr. Walker held various positions in finance and banking 

at UBS AG. Mr. Walker currently serves on the boards of 
Bloomberg, Inc. and several non-profit organizations, 
including the National Gallery of Art, Lincoln Center for the 
Performing Arts, Friends of the High Line and Carnegie Hall. 
Mr. Walker also currently chairs the U.S. Impact Investing 
Alliance Advisory Board and is a member of the Council 

on Foreign Relations and the American Academy of Arts 
and Sciences. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 


® Current: Raloh Lauren Corporation 
= Previous (During Past 5 Years): Block, Inc. (until 2023) 


Alberto Weisser 


Director Since: 2011 
Age: 68 


Alberto Weisser served as Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer of Bunge Limited, a global food, commodity and 
agribusiness company, from 1999 until mid-2013 and as 
Executive Chairman until late-2013. Mr. Weisser previously 
served as Bunge’s Chief Financial Officer from 1993 to 1999. 
Previously, Mr. Weisser worked at BASF Group, a chemical 
company, in various finance-related positions. He also 
served as a Senior Advisor at Lazard Ltd. from 2015 until 
2018. He currently serves on the Americas Advisory Panel 
of Temasek International Pte. Ltd., a Singapore-based 
investment company. 


Other Public Company Directorships: 


= Current: Bayer AG; Linde Plc 
= Previous (During Past 5 Years): None 


Election of Directors (Proxy Item No. 1) 


Independent Committee 

Memberships: 

= Nominating and Corporate 
Governance 

® Sustainability, Diversity and 


Public Policy ZNGy 


Skills and Qualifications 


Mr. Walker brings to our Board of Directors his insight into 
the role of business in society gained through his role as 
President of the Ford Foundation and his leadership at 
other non-profit and philanthropic organizations. Through 
his experience with various social and community 
initiatives, he provides the Board with unique perspectives 
on human capital management, talent development 

and diversity and inclusion and insights on public policy 
and sustainability-related matters that are particularly 
valuable as PepsiCo continues to focus on its sustainability 
goals and pursue strategies to drive long-term growth. In 
addition, he offers a unique understanding of emerging 
markets and communities gained through his experience 
and oversight of the Ford Foundation’s operations. 


Independent Committee 
Memberships: 


= Audit Ry 


Skills and Qualifications 


Mr. Weisser brings to our Board of Directors his extensive 
experience with and keen understanding of commodities, 
gained from his role as Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer of Bunge Limited. These skills are particularly 
valuable to PepsiCo in today’s volatile global economic 
environment. Mr. Weisser has deep knowledge of the 
strategic, financial, risk and compliance issues facing a 
large, diversified, publicly traded company, and significant 
international experience, particularly with respect to 
emerging markets. Mr. Weisser also contributes strong 
financial acumen and expertise resulting from his six years 
of experience serving as Bunge Limited’s Chief Financial 
Officer and other senior finance-related positions. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 19 


Board Composition and Refreshment 


We believe the Board benefits from a mix of new directors who bring fresh perspectives and longer-serving directors who 
bring valuable experience, continuity and a deep understanding of the Company. The Board strives to maintain an appropriate 
balance of tenure, turnover, diversity, attributes, viewpoints and experiences. To promote thoughtful Board refreshment, 

we have: 


= Developed a comprehensive, ongoing Board succession planning process; 
= Implemented an annual Board and Committee assessment process; 


= Adopted a policy in which no director may stand for election to the Board after reaching the age of 75 and a director's 
tenure is considered as a factor in the nomination process. 


Six of the director nominees joined the Board since the beginning of 2019. The average age of our director nominees and our 
independent director nominees is 62.4 years and 62.6 years, respectively. The average tenure of all our director nominees and our 
independent director nominees is 79 years and 8.1 years, respectively. 


Comprehensive, Ongoing Process for Board Succession Planning 
and Selection and Nomination of Directors 


The Board regularly evaluates its composition, assessing individual director's skills, qualifications, attributes and experiences to 
ensure the overall Board composition is aligned with the needs of PepsiCo’s long-term business strategy. Each year, the Board 
assesses the directors to be nominated at the annual meeting. The Board reviews potential director vacancies in light of its 
ongoing evaluation and regularly reviews potential candidates at Board meetings. The Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee assists this process by considering prospective candidates and identifying appropriate individuals for the Board's 
further consideration. From time to time, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee engages independent 
third-party consulting firms to help identify, evaluate and conduct due diligence on potential director candidates who meet 
he current needs of the Board. 


ot 


The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee also assists the Board in considering succession planning for Board 
positions such as the Presiding Director and Chairs of the Committees. 


The Presiding Director is appointed for a term of three years. The Board evaluates the Presiding Director's performance 
annually under the guidance of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Based on the recommendation of 
the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the independent members of the Board re-elected lan Cook as the 
Presiding Director of the Board in 2021 for another three-year term beginning in 2022. For more information on the robust 
responsibilities of our independent Presiding Director, please see “Board Leadership Structure” beginning on page 25 of this 
Proxy Statement. 


Except as the Board may otherwise determine, the Chair of each Committee is appointed for a term of three years and no 
more than three consecutive three-year terms. The Board elected a new Compensation Committee Chair beginning in 2023, 
re-elected the Audit Committee Chair for a third term beginning in 2022, and elected a new Committee Chair beginning 

in 2021 for each of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Sustainability, Diversity and Public 

Policy Committee. 


20 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Board Composition and Refreshment 


Directors’ Attributes and Experiences 


The Board looks for its current and potential directors to have a broad range of attributes, viewpoints and experiences that 
can be leveraged in order to benefit PepsiCo and its shareholders and align with the evolving needs of PepsiCo’s long-term 
business strategy. Currently, the Board is particularly interested in maintaining a mix of attributes and experiences that include 
the following: 


= Public Company CEO including deep operational, CEO = Technology / Data Analytics / e-commerce / 
experience at a large global public company Digital Marketing / Cyber including senior leadership 
= Financial Expertise / Financial Community including experience at a digital company or expertise in areas 
senior financial leadership experience at a large global including e-commerce, data analytics, cloud engineered 
public company or senior leadership experience at a systems, digital marketing or cybersecurity 
financial institution = Diversity including understanding the importance of 
= Consumer Products including senior leadership experience diversity to a global enterprise with a diverse consumer 
with respect to a large consumer products business base, informed by experience of gender, race, ethnicity 


and/or nationality 


Risk Management including experience handling major 
risk-related challenges 


Developing and Emerging Markets / International 
Residence including global business experience with a 
focus on developing and emerging markets, or residence 
or extensive time spent living outside of the United States 


Public Policy including senior governmental, regulatory, 
philanthropic or public policy leadership experience, or 
policy-making role in areas relevant to our business 


Science / Medical / Research / Innovation including 
senior leadership experience or scientific/research role driving 
technical, engineering, medical or other research innovation 


Attributes of Individual Nominees 


All directors are also expected to possess certain personal traits and, in fulfilling its responsibility to identify qualified candidates for 
membership on the Board, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee considers the following attributes of candidates: 


= Relevant knowledge, diversity of background, perspectives and experience in areas including business, finance, accounting, 
technology and cybersecurity, marketing, international business, government, human capital management and talent development; 


= Personal qualities of leadership, character, judgment and whether the candidate possesses a reputation in the community at 
large of integrity, trust, respect, competence and adherence to the highest ethical standards; 


# Roles and contributions valuable to the business community; and 
= Whether the candidate is free of conflicts and has the time required for preparation, participation and attendance at meetings. 


In addition, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee regularly considers each incumbent director's length 
of service on the Board and contributions, as well as the overall mix of tenures on the Board and the average tenure of all 
independent directors, in connection with determining whether an incumbent director should be renominated. 


Consideration of Board Diversity 


on ensuring that a wide range of backgrounds and experience are represented on our Board. 


The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board are keenly focused 
60% 
60% of our director nominees are women and/or racially/ethnically diverse individuals. 


Throughout the director selection and nomination process, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the 
Board seek to achieve diversity within the Board with a broad array of viewpoints and perspectives that are representative 

of our global business. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee adheres to the Company's philosophy of 
maintaining an environment free from discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, 
age, national origin, disability, veteran status or any other protected category under applicable law. This process is designed 

to provide that the Board includes members with diverse backgrounds, perspectives and experience, including appropriate 
financial and other expertise relevant to the business of the Company. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 21 


Board Composition and Refreshment 


While not a formal policy, PepsiCo’s director nomination processes call for the consideration of a range of types of diversity, 
including race, gender, ethnicity, culture, nationality and geography. In fact, diversity is one of the enumerated criteria that 
the Board has identified as critical in maintaining among its current and potential directors. Accordingly, the Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Committee is committed to actively seeking out highly qualified women and minority candidates, 
as well as candidates with diverse backgrounds, skills and experience, to include in the pool from which Board nominees are 
chosen. The Board also annually assesses the diversity of its members as part of its assessment process. 


Director Orientation and Continuing Education 


We have a comprehensive orientation program for all new directors with respect to their role as directors and as members of 
the particular Board committees on which they will serve. This orientation program includes one-on-one meetings with senior 
management, visits to PepsiCo’s operations and extensive written materials to familiarize new directors with PepsiCo’s business, 
financial performance, strategic plans, executive compensation program, corporate governance policies and practices and 
sustainability agenda and initiatives. Additional training is also provided when a director assumes a leadership role, such as 
becoming a Committee Chair. 


We also offer continuing education programs to assist directors in enhancing their skills and knowledge to better perform their 
duties and to recognize, and deal appropriately with, issues that may arise. These programs may be part of regular Board and 
Committee meetings or provided by qualified third parties on various topics. In addition, the Company pays for all reasonable 
expenses for any director who wishes to attend an external director continuing education program. 


Board and Committee Assessments 


Our Board continually seeks to improve its performance. A formal evaluation is conducted on an annual basis, and directors 
share perspectives, feedback and suggestions year-round, both during and outside of Board and Committee meetings. 
Pursuant to PepsiCo’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Charters of each of the Board's Committees, the Board and 
each of its Committees conduct an evaluation at least annually. 


Our processes enable directors to provide anonymous and confidential feedback on topics including: 


ttee information and materials; 


= Board/Comm 


= Board/Committee meeting mechanics; 


= Board/Committee composition and structure (including the mix of experience, skills, qualifications, viewpoints, backgrounds 
and demographic diversity); 


= Board/Committee responsibilities and accountability (including with respect to strategy, risk management, operating 
performance, CEO and management succession planning, senior management development, corporate governance, 
sustainability and corporate culture); 


= Board meeting conduct and culture; and 
= Overall performance of Board members. 
To promote effectiveness of the Board and each Committee, the results of the assessment are reviewed, and addressed by the 


Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the members of each Committee and the independent directors both 
alone in an executive session led by the independent Presiding Director and with members of management. 


In 2023, in addition to the written Board and Committee evaluations, we conducted individual director assessments facilitated 
by a third party. 


This process of actively engaging in thoughtful discussions, including on topics ranging from Board and Committee composition 
to overall performance of Board members, has had a meaningful impact on Board refreshment and succession planning. As a 
testament to the effectiveness of this assessment process, six of the director nominees joined the Board since the beginning of 
2019, including four female directors. This refreshment demonstrates the Board's focus on maintaining an appropriate balance of 
attributes, viewpoints and experiences that align with the evolving needs of PepsiCo’s long-term business strategy. 


The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee annually reviews the format of the evaluation process. As a result 

of the evaluation process, which helps identify opportunities to continue to improve the performance of the Board and the 
Committees, the Board and Committees continue to enhance practices and procedures as appropriate. The Board also reviews 
the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee's periodic recommendations concerning the performance of the 
Board, each of its Committees and the Presiding Director. 


22 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Board Composition and Refreshment 


Shareholder Recommendations and Nominations of 
Director Candidates 


The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will consider recommendations for director nominees made by 
shareholders and evaluate them using the same criteria as for other candidates. Recommendations received from shareholders 
are reviewed by the Chair of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee to determine whether each candidate 
meets the minimum criteria set forth in the Corporate Governance Guidelines, and if so, whether the candidate's expertise and 
particular set of skills and background fit the current needs of the Board. Any shareholder recommendation must be sent to the 
Corporate Secretary of PepsiCo at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577, and must include detailed background 
information regarding the suggested candidate that demonstrates how the individual meets the Board membership criteria. 


Our By-Laws permit proxy access for shareholders. Shareholders who wish to nominate directors for inclusion in our Proxy 
Statement or directly at an Annual Meeting in accordance with the procedures in our By-Laws and Rule 14a-19 under the 
Exchange Act should see “2025 Shareholder Proposals and Director Nominations” on page 123 of this Proxy Statement for 
further information. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 23 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


Our Governance Philosophy 


We believe strong corporate governance and an ethical culture are the foundation for financial 
integrity, investor confidence and sustainable performance. 


Strong corporate governance and a steadfast commitment to doing business the right way are and have been longstanding 
priorities at PepsiCo. Our strong tone at the top begins with our Board of Directors, which has demonstrated its focus on 
advancing openness, honesty, fairness and integrity in the Boardroom and across the Company through such actions as: 


= Adopting Corporate Governance Guidelines for the Company that establish a common set of expectations to assist 
the Board and its Committees in performing their duties, reviewing these Guidelines at least annually, and updating 
the Guidelines as appropriate to reflect changing regulatory requirements, evolving best practices and input from our 
shareholders and other stakeholders; 


Adopting the Company's Global Code of Conduct and overseeing compliance, including ensuring corporate culture is on 
the Board agenda; 


Holding regular executive sessions between the Audit Committee and our Global Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer; 


Establishing a means for employees to raise issues to the Board and encouraging a culture of trust so that employees at 
every level feel comfortable speaking up about concerns; and 


Fostering a corporate culture of integrity and risk awareness through the Board's oversight over PepsiCo's integrated risk 
management framework, which includes the Board's review of specific high-priority risks on a regular basis throughout 
the year. 


Key Corporate Governance Documents. The following key corporate documents are available at www.pepsico.com under “Who 
We Are” —‘“Corporate Governance” and are also available in print upon written request to the Corporate Secretary of PepsiCo at 
700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577: Corporate Governance Guidelines; the Global Code of Conduct; and the 
Charters of our Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance, and Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy 
Committees of the Board. 


Our Global Code of Conduct 


PepsiCo is proud of its commitment to deliver sustained growth through empowered people acting 
with responsibility and building trust. 


This commitment is evidenced in part by our robust Global Code of Conduct, which is designed to provide our directors 

and employees with guidance on how to act legally and ethically while performing work for PepsiCo. PepsiCo works hard 

to communicate its values clearly and regularly throughout its operations, including by conducting an annual Global Code 

of Conduct training program for employees. Annually, all of PepsiCo’s directors and executives, including all of our executive 
officers, certify their compliance with our Global Code of Conduct. Through these efforts, we are focused on developing a 
culture of empowering people across the Company to act with responsibility and to build trust by embracing the principles 
of our Global Code of Conduct and our core values: respect in the workplace; trust in the marketplace; fairness in our business 
relationships, honesty in business conduct; and purpose in our world. 


Prohibition on Hedging and Pledging. To further align the interests of PepsiCo’s directors, officers and employees with those 

of our shareholders, under PepsiCo’s Global Code of Conduct and Insider Trading Policy, the Company prohibits all directors, 
officers and employees from engaging in activities that are designed to hedge or offset any decrease in the market value of 
PepsiCo stock (including purchasing financial instruments such as prepaid variable forward contracts, collars, exchange funds 
or equity swaps or engaging in short sales). In addition, directors, officers and employees may not hold PepsiCo securities in a 
margin account or pledge PepsiCo stock or PepsiCo stock options as collateral for a loan or otherwise. 


24 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


Our Board of Directors 


Our Board of Directors represents the interests of our shareholders and oversees the Company's business and affairs pursuant 
to the North Carolina Business Corporation Act and our governing documents. Members of the Board, all of whom are elected 
annually, oversee the Company's business and affairs by, among other things, participating in Board and Committee meetings, 
reviewing materials provided to them, engaging with the Chairman and CEO and with key members of management and 
associates, bringing in outside experts, and discussing feedback from shareholders and other stakeholders. 


Outstanding Board Member Attendance. Regular attendance at Board meetings and the Annual Meeting of Shareholders 

is expected of each director. In fiscal year 2023, our Board of Directors held seven meetings and our Committees held 20 
meetings in the aggregate. In fiscal year 2023, no incumbent director attended fewer than 75% of the total number of Board 
and applicable Committee meetings (in each case held during the period that such director served). Thirteen of fourteen 
directors then serving attended the 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 


Board Leadership Structure 


PepsiCo's governing documents enable the Board to determine the appropriate Board leadership structure for the Company 
and allow the roles of Chairman of the Board and CEO to be filled by the same or different individuals. This approach allows 
the Board the opportunity to determine whether the two roles should be separate or combined based upon the Company's 
needs in light of the dynamic environment in which we operate and the Board's assessment of the Company's leadership from 
time to time. 


The Board regularly considers and is open to different structures as circumstances may warrant. During its most recent 
evaluation of its leadership structure, the Board determined that the current combined Chairman and CEO structure, together 
with a strong independent Presiding Director with clearly defined and robust responsibilities as set forth on page 26, strikes the 
right balance between effective independent oversight of PepsiCo's business and Board activities and strong and consistent 
corporate leadership, and provides the best leadership structure for the Company at this time. This structure enables a clear 
and unified strategic vision and is beneficial at this time given the complex and dynamic consumer and retail landscape. This 
eadership structure, along with having independent directors chair each of the Company's four Committees, also enhances 
the Board's oversight of material risks because the Chairman and CEO is uniquely positioned to identify emerging risks while 
the Presiding Director and Committee Chairs provide independent oversight of the Company's risk management programs. 


n making the leadership structure determination, the Board gave thorough consideration to a number of factors, including: 
i) the strategic goals of the Company, (ii) the unique opportunities and challenges PepsiCo is facing, (iii) the breadth and 
complexity of PepsiCo’s business and global footprint, (iv) the various capabilities of our directors, (v) the dynamics of our Board, 
vi) best practices in the market, (vii) PepsiCo’s shareholder base and investor feedback, (viii) the current industry environment 
and (ix) the status of PepsiCo’'s progress with respect to key strategic initiatives. The Board also reflected upon the Company’s 
strong, independent oversight function exercised by our actively engaged Board, which consists entirely of independent 
directors other than our Chairman and CEO, as well as the independent leadership provided by our independent Presiding 
Director and each of the four standing Board Committees, which consist solely of, and are chaired by, independent directors. 


The Board recognizes the importance of the Company's leadership structure to our shareholders and will continue to regularly 
assess the Board leadership structure with careful consideration of the input obtained through engagement with our shareholders. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 25 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


Ramon L. Laguarta 
CHAIRMAN AND CEO 


lan Cook 

PRESIDING DIRECTOR 

Former Chairman, President and Chief Executive 
Officer, Colgate-Palmolive Company 


AD 


The independent directors believe that our current 

Chairman of the Board and CEO, Ramon L. Laguarta, as 

an experienced leader with deep operational experience, 
particularly in international markets, and extensive 
knowledge of the Company, food and beverage industry and 
risk management practices that Mr. Laguarta gained from 
working over 20 years at PepsiCo in a variety of executive 
and general management roles, serves as a highly effective 
bridge between the Board and management. In his role 
as Chairman and CEO, Mr. Laguarta is in the best position 
to be aware of key issues facing the Company, and to 
effectively communicate with various internal and externa 
constituencies about critical business matters. During this 
period of significant change for PepsiCo as we implement key 
strategic and ongoing transformation initiatives and navigate 
the rapidly evolving business environment, the independent 
directors believe that the Company is best served by having 
one clear leader in both the Chairman and CEO roles who 

has the vision and leadership to execute on the Company's 
strategy and create shareholder value. 


Asa result of his extensive experience leading a 
multinational consumer products company during 
his 40-plus year career at Colgate-Palmolive, including 
his 12 years as CEO and his direct involvement in both 
risk management and risk oversight, and his deep 
understanding of PepsiCo and its business acquired from 
his years of service on our Board, Mr. Cook is uniquely 
positioned to work collaboratively with our Chairman 
and CEO, while providing strong independent oversight 
of management. 


In addition to his core responsibilities as Presiding Director 
as described further below, Mr. Cook is an actively engaged 
director who regularly communicates with the Chairman 
and CEO and other members of the senior management 
on various topics of importance to the Company, including 
business strategy and the Company's approach to 
identifying and mitigating key risks. 


In recognition of Mr. Cook's strong leadership stemming 
from his industry-relevant knowledge, operational, risk 
oversight and governance experience and exceptional 
interpersonal and communication skills, the independent 
members of the Board of Directors re-elected Mr. Cook 
as the Presiding Director for another three-year term 
beginning in 2022. 


Role of Presiding Director. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines provide that if the Chairman of the Board is not an independent 
director, an independent director shall be designated as the Presiding Director by the independent members of the Board 
based on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The Presiding Director is appointed 


for a term of three years. 


The Board evaluates the Presiding Director's performance annually under the guidance of the Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee. The duties of our independent Presiding Director are robust and consistent with the responsibilities 
generally held by independent “lead directors” at other public companies. 


Presiding Director Duties: 


= Presides at all meetings of the Board at which the Chairman of the Board is not present, including executive sessions of 


the independent directors 


= Serves as a liaison between the Chairman of the Board and the independent directors 


= Has authority to approve information sent to the Board 


= Approves meeting agendas for the Board, including Board consideration of any matters as he or she deems appropriate, 


including risk-related matters 


= Approves meeting schedules to assure that there is sufficient time for discussion of all agenda items 


= Works with the Board Committee Chairs to oversee the annual assessment of the Board and Committees, including 
assessment of the effectiveness and appropriateness of the process by which the Board identifies, assesses, addresses and 


monitors the Company's enterprise risks 


= Has the authority to call meetings of the independent directors 


= If requested by major shareholders, ensures that he or she is available for consultation and direct communication 


26 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


In addition to these responsibilities and assisting the Board in the fulfillment of its responsibilities in general, Mr. Cook, as the 
Presiding Director, has over the past few years performed additional duties including: 


= meeting with the Chairman and CEO after the executive sessions of independent directors held at each regularly scheduled 
Board meeting to provide feedback on the independent directors’ deliberations; 

= regularly speaking with the Chairman and CEO between Board meetings to discuss any matters of concern, often following 
consultation with other independent directors; 

= working with the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee to guide the Board's governance processes, including 
developing recommendations for Board and Committee structure, size and composition, including Board succession 
planning, and for the Board's approach to performing its duties; 


= meeting regularly with members of senior management other than the Chairman and CEO; and 
= representing the Board in communications with shareholders, including on sustainability matters. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 27 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


Director Independence 


Independence Determination 


The Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines provide that an independent director is a director who meets the Nasdaq 
definition of independence, as determined by the Board. This definition is included in the Corporate Governance Guidelines, 
which are available at www.pepsico.com under “Who We Are’—“Corporate Governance.” In making a determination of whether a 
director has any relationship which, in the opinion of the Board, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment in 
carrying out the responsibilities of a director, the Board of Directors considers all relevant facts and circumstances, including but 


not limited to the director's commercial, industrial, banking, consulting, legal, accounting, charitable and familial relationships. 


Consistent with these considerations, the Board of Directors has affirmatively determined that all of our non-management 
director nominees, who are listed below, are independent within the meaning of the SEC and Nasdaq rules. 


Independent Director Nominees 


Segun Agbaje Susan M. Diamond Robert C. Pohlad 
Jennifer Bailey Dina Dublon Daniel Vasella 
Cesar Conde Michelle Gass Darren Walker 
lan Cook Dave J. Lewis Alberto Weisser 
Edith W. Cooper David C. Page 
In arriving at the foregoing independence determination, the Board of Directors thoroughly considered the relationships 


described under “Transactions with Related Persons” on page 29 of this Proxy Statement and determined that they do 
not impair Mr. Pohlad's independence or his ability to exercise independent judgment in carrying out the responsibilities 
of a director. 


Executive Sessions of Independent Directors 


The independent directors hold regularly scheduled executive sessions of the Board and its Committees without Company 
management present. These executive sessions are chaired by the independent Presiding Director (at Board meetings) or by 
the independent Committee Chairs (at Committee meetings). The independent directors met in executive session at all of the 
regularly scheduled Board meetings held in 2023. Regular executive sessions are also held by each Committee. 


Related Person Transactions 


The Board of Directors has adopted written Related Person Transaction Policies and Procedures that generally apply to any 
transaction or series of transactions: 
® in which the Company or a subsidiary was or is a participant; 


= where the amount involved exceeds or is expected to exceed $120,000 since the beginning of the Company's last 
completed fiscal year; and 


in which the related person (i.e., a director, director nominee, executive officer, greater than five percent beneficial 
owner of the Company's Common Stock, or any immediate family member of any of the foregoing) has or will have a 
direct or indirect material interest. 


The transactions described above are submitted to the Audit Committee for review and approval or ratification. 


28 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


Review and Approval of Transactions with Related Persons 


In determining whether to approve, ratify or disapprove of the entry into a related person transaction, the Audit Committee 
considers all relevant facts and circumstances and takes into account, among other factors: 


= whether the transaction is on terms no less favorable than terms generally available to an unaffiliated third party under the 
same or similar circumstances; 


= whether the transaction would impair the independence of an outside director; and 


= whether the transaction would present an improper conflict of interest for any director or executive officer of the Company. 


The Audit Committee has considered and adopted standing pre-approvals under the policy for limited transactions with 
related persons. The Company's General Counsel maintains a list of transactions deemed pre-approved under the policy for 
review by any Board member. 


Transactions with Related Persons 


The Board thoroughly considered the following relationships involving Robert C. Pohlad and determined that they do not 
impair Mr. Pohlad’s independence or his ability to exercise independent judgment in carrying out the responsibilities of a 
director of the Company: 


= Mr. Pohlad indirectly owns one-third of the voting interests in the Minnesota Twins, a Major League Baseball team, and the 
remaining voting interests are indirectly owned by his brothers, William Pohlad and James Pohlad. The non-voting interests 
in the Minnesota Twins are owned indirectly by Mr. Pohlad and members of his immediate family and through trusts for 
the benefit of Mr. Pohlad’s descendants and descendants of members of his family. Members of Mr. Pohlad's immediate 
family are employed by the Minnesota Twins, including James Pohlad, who serves as Chairman of the Board. In addition, 
Mr. Pohlad's son is a current executive officer of the Minnesota Twins, serving as Executive Chair. In fiscal year 2023, PepsiCo 
made payments to the Minnesota Twins of approximately $680,000 in connection with a sponsorship agreement, and 
PepsiCo received payments of approximately $1,140,000 from the Minnesota Twins and an independent third party in 
connection with the sale of PepsiCo products at the Minnesota Twins’ stadium. Transactions between the Minnesota Twins 
and PepsiCo, individually and in the aggregate, represented less than 1% of the annual revenues of the Minnesota Twins and 
PepsiCo for each of fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021. 


= Mr. Pohlad and his brothers indirectly own an equity interest of approximately 13% in Minnesota United, a Major League 
Soccer Team. In fiscal year 2023, PepsiCo made payments to Minnesota United of approximately $220,000 in connection 
with a sponsorship agreement, and PepsiCo received payments of approximately $210,000 from Minnesota United and 
an independent third party in connection with the sale of PepsiCo products at Minnesota United's stadium. Transactions 
between Minnesota United and PepsiCo, individually and in the aggregate, represented less than 1% of the annual revenues 
of Minnesota United and PepsiCo for each of fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021. 


Mr. Pohlad and his immediate family members indirectly own an equity interest of approximately 12% of ESXL LLC, a New York- 

based esports organization. In fiscal year 2023 (subsequent to the transaction discussed below), ESXL merged with and into NYXL, 
Inc., a New York-based esports organization. In fiscal year 2023, PepsiCo made payments to ESXL LLC of approximately $450,000 in 
connection with the launch of a promotional event for the Doritos brand that took place in fiscal year 2023. 


The sponsorship agreements and sale of PepsiCo products for the Minnesota Twins and the Minnesota United are ongoing, 
and PepsiCo expects to enter into a new five-year sponsorship agreement with the Minnesota Twins that would begin with the 
2024 season pursuant to which PepsiCo would make annual payments of approximately $960,000 per year to the Minnesota 
Twins. The transaction with ESXL LLC was a one-time arrangement for fiscal year 2023. Mr. Pohlad is and was not involved in 
negotiating these arm’s-length transactions. The Board thoroughly considered these relationships and determined that they do 
not impair Mr. Pohlad’s independence or his ability to exercise independent judgment in carrying out the responsibilities as a 
director of the Company. 


In addition, Meaghan Spillane is a Key Account Manager, PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA) at PepsiCo and daughter of 
Marie T. Gallagher, who serves as Senior Vice President and Controller of PepsiCo. Ms. Spillane received total compensation of 
approximately $158,000 in fiscal year 2023, and participates in the general welfare and benefit plans of PepsiCo. Ms. Spillane’s 
compensation was established in accordance with PepsiCo's employment and compensation practices applicable to 
employees with equivalent qualifications and responsibilities and holding similar positions. Ms. Gallagher does not have a 
material interest in her daughter's employment, nor does she share a household with her. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 29 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


Committees of the Board of Directors 


The Board of Directors has four standing Committees: Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance, and 
Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy. Fifty percent of the Committees are chaired by diverse Directors. The table below 
indicates the current members of each Board Committee: 


Nominating and Sustainability, 
Corporate Diversity and 
Audit Compensation Governance Public Policy 

Segun Agbaje E 
Jennifer Bailey ® 
Cesar Conde fh e 
lan Cook (Presiding Director) C) 
Edith W. Cooper @ 
Susan M. Diamond E 
Dina Dublon C) e 
Michelle Gass e 
Ramon L. Laguarta 
Sir Dave J. Lewis e 
David C. Page, MD e e 
Robert C. Pohlad e & 
Daniel Vasella, MD e C) 
Darren Walker e 3 
Alberto Weisser SE 


S = Committee Chair 


E = Audit Committee Financial Expert 


30 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


Audit Committee Primary Responsibilities 


= Engaging and overseeing the Company's independent registered public accounting 
firm (taking into account the vote on shareholder ratification) and considering the 
independence, qualifications and performance of the independent registered public 
accounting firm 


Met eight times in 2023 


Current Committee 


Members 
Approving all audit and permissible non-audit services to be performed by the 


Alberto Weisser independent registered public accounting firm 


segun Agbaje Reviewing and evaluating the performance of the lead audit partner of the independent 
Jennifer Bailey registered public accounting firm and periodically considering whether there should be 


Edith W. Cooper a rotation of the independent registered public accounting firm 


Susan M. Diamond ; ; pene ; 
Overseeing the quality and integrity of PepsiCo’s financial staternents and its related 


accounting and financial reporting processes and internal control over financial 
reporting, and the audits of PepsiCo’'s financial statements, including reviewing with 
management and the independent registered public accounting firm PepsiCo’s annual 
audited and quarterly financial statements and other financial disclosures, including 
earnings releases 


Reviewing and approving the internal audit department's audit plan, staffing, budget 
and responsibilities 


Reviewing PepsiCo’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, including 
by reviewing and discussing the implementation and effectiveness of PepsiCo's 
compliance program 


Establishing procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints received 
by the Company regarding (i) accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing 
matters and other federal securities law matters and (ii) confidential, anonymous 
submissions by employees of concerns regarding accounting or auditing matters or 
other federal securities law matters 


Reviewing and assessing the guidelines and policies governing PepsiCo’s risk 
management and oversight processes, and assisting the Board's oversight of PepsiCo’s 
financial, compliance and employee safety risks 


Reviewing and providing oversight of all related person transactions 


During 2023, the Audit Committee continued to review and consider how the deadly 
conflict in Ukraine continued to impact each of its areas of responsibility 


Financial Expertise and Independence 


The Board of Directors has determined that Segun Agbaje, Susan M. Diamond and Alberto 
Weisser satisfy the criteria adopted by the SEC to serve as “audit committee financial 
experts” and that all of the members of the Committee are independent directors 
pursuant to the applicable requirements under the SEC and Nasdaq rules. 


No Audit Committee member concurrently serves on the audit committee of more than 
two other public companies. 


Report 
The Audit Committee Report is set forth beginning on page 46 of this Proxy Statement. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 31 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


Compensation Primary Responsibilities 
Committee Overseeing policies relating to compensation of the Company's executives and making 


; ; recommendations to the Board with respect to such policies 

Met four times in 2023 
Overseeing engagement with shareholders on executive compensation matters 

Current Committee Overseeing the design of all material employee benefit plans and programs of the 


Members Company, its subsidiaries and divisions 


Meeting at least annually with the CEO to discuss the CEO's self-assessment in achieving 


Cesar Conde individual and corporate performance goals and objectives 


Dina Dublon i ; ; coh thael one h f Eth 
David C. Page Evaluating and discussing with the independent directors the performance of the CEO 


Roberc Pohlad and recommending the CEO's compensation to the independent directors based on 


Daniel Vaeella the CEO's performance 


Overseeing the evaluation of the executive officers and other key executives deemed to 
be under the Compensation Committee's purview, and evaluating and determining the 
individual elements of total compensation for such officers 


Evaluating its relationship with any compensation consultant for any conflicts of interest 
and assessing the independence of any compensation consultant, legal counsel or 
other advisors 


Reviewing and reporting to the Board with respect to director compensation and stock 
ownership guidelines 


Additional information on the roles and responsibilities of the Compensation Committee 
is provided in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 50 of this 
Proxy Statement. 


Independence 


The Compensation Committee is comprised entirely of directors who are independent 
under the SEC and Nasdaq rules for directors and compensation committee members. 


Report 


The Compensation Committee Report is set forth on page 80 of this Proxy Statement. 


Compensation Advisor 


The Compensation Committee has engaged FW Cook as its independent external advisor. The Compensation Committee 
reviewed its relationship with FW Cook, considered FW Cook's independence and the existence of potential conflicts of 
interest, and determined that the engagement of FW Cook did not raise any conflict of interest or other issues that would 
adversely impact FW Cook's independence. In reaching this conclusion, the Compensation Committee considered various 
factors, including the six factors set forth in the SEC and Nasdaq rules regarding compensation advisor conflicts of interest and 
independence. 


Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation 


Shona L. Brown, Cesar Conde, Dina Dublon, David C. Page, Robert C. Pohlad and Daniel Vasella served on the Company's 
Compensation Committee during all or a portion of fiscal year 2023. No member of the Compensation Committee is now, or 
has been, an officer or employee of the Company. No member of the Compensation Committee had any relationship with 

the Company or any of its subsidiaries during 2023 pursuant to which disclosure would be required under applicable SEC rules 
pertaining to the disclosure of transactions with related persons, other than Mr. Pohlad, as described on page 29 of this Proxy 
Statement. None of the executive officers of the Company currently serves or served during 2023 on the board of directors or 
compensation committee of another company at any time during which an executive officer of such other company served on 
PepsiCo's Board of Directors or Compensation Committee. 


32 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Nominating 
and Corporate 
Governance 
Committee 


Met four times in 2023 


Current Committee 
Members 


Robert C. Pohlad 
Cesar Conde 

lan Cook 

Daniel Vasella 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


Primary Responsibilities 


Developing criteria and qualifications, including criteria to assess independence, for 
selecting director candidates and identifying qualified candidates for membership on 
the Board and its Committees 

Developing and recommending to the Board corporate governance guidelines and 
other corporate policies and otherwise performing a leadership role in shaping the 
Company's corporate governance policies and practices 

Reviewing Board succession plans and overseeing the development of the process and 
protocols regarding succession plans for the Company's CEO 

Making recommendations to the Board concerning the composition, size, structure and 
activities of the Board and its Committees 

Overseeing the process for evaluating the Board and its Committees, including 
assessing and reporting to the Board on the performance of the Board and 

its Committees 


Darren Wa 


Sustainability, 
Diversity and Public * 


Policy C 


Met four times in 2023 


Current Committee 
Members 


Darren Wa 


Dina Dublon 


Michelle G 


Dave J. Lewis 
David C. Page 


Iker Independence 


The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is comprised entirely of directors 
who meet the independence requirements under the Nasdaq rules. 


Primary Responsibilities 

Assisting in the Board's oversight of risks related to matters overseen by the Committee 

= Reviewing the Company's sustainability initiatives and engagement 

= Reviewing the Company's key sustainability programs and related goals it may establish 
from time to time and monitoring the Company's progress toward achieving those goals 
Reviewing the Company's diversity, equity and inclusion policies, programs 
and initiatives 
Reviewing and monitoring key public policy trends, issues and regulatory matters and 
the Company's engagement in the public policy process 
Overseeing the Company's Political Contributions Policy and reviewing the Company’s 
political activities and expenditures 


ommittee 


clan CHAIR 


ass 
Independence 


The Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy Committee is comprised entirely of directors 
who meet the independence requirements under the Nasdaq rules. 


The Board's Role in Strategy Oversight 


One of the Bo 


ard's key responsibilities is overseeing the Company’s strategy, and the Board has deep experience and expertise 


in the area of strategy development and insights into the most important issues facing the Company. Setting the strategic 
course of the Company involves a high level of constructive engagement between management and the Board. Our entire 
Board acts as a strategy committee and regularly discusses the key priorities of our Company, taking into consideration and 
adjusting the Company's long-term strategy with global economic, consumer and other significant trends, as well as changes 


in the food an 


= Annually, th 


d beverage industries and regulatory initiatives. 


e Board conducts an extensive review of the Company's long-term strategic plans, its annual operating plan and 


capital structure. 


= Throughou 


t the year and at almost every Board meeting, the Board receives information and updates from management 


and actively engages with senior leaders with respect to the Company's strategy, including the strategic plans for our 


divisions, th 


e competitive environment, sustainability initiatives and human capital management strategies, including 


matters related to diversity, equity and inclusion. 


# PepsiCo’s in 


dependent directors also hold regularly scheduled executive sessions without Company management present, 


at which strategy is discussed. 
= The Board also regularly discusses and reviews feedback on strategy from our shareholders and stakeholders. 


The Board also receives regular updates, formally and informally, and participates in discussions with management about any 
key global events that may impact the Company as they arise. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 33 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


The Board's Oversight of Risk Management 


The Board recognizes that the achievement of our strategic and operating objectives involves risks, many of which evo 


ve 


over time. The Board has oversight responsibility for PepsiCo's integrated risk management framework, which is designed to 
identify, assess, prioritize, address, manage, monitor and communicate these risks across the Company's operations, and foster 


a corporate culture of integrity and risk awareness. Consistent with this approach, one of the Board's primary responsibi 
is overseeing and interacting with senior management with respect to key aspects of the Company's business, includin 
assessment and risk mitigation of the Company's top risks. 


The Board receives and provides feedback on regular updates from management regarding the Company's top risks, in 


lities 
g risk 


cluding 


updates from members of management responsible for overseeing impacted areas, governance processes associated with 


managing these risks, the status of projects to strengthen the Company's risk mitigation efforts and recent incidents im 


pacting 


the industry and threat landscape. In evaluating top risks, the Board and management consider short-, medium-, and long-term 


potential impacts on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations, including looking at the int 


ernal 


and external environment when evaluating risks, risk amplifiers and emerging trends, and considers the risk horizon as part of 


prioritizing the Company's risk mitigation efforts. The Board receives updates through presentations, memos and other 
materials, teleconferences, and other appropriate means of communication, with numerous opportunities for discussio 


written 
nand 


feedback, and continuously evaluates its approach in addressing top risks as circumstances evolve. PepsiCo’s risk oversight 


processes and disclosure controls and procedures are designed to appropriately escalate key risks to the Board as well a 
analyze potential risks for disclosure. 


The Board also receives periodic updates from external experts and advisers on global macroeconomic trends and con 
that may impact the Company’s strategy and financial performance, including geopolitical conflicts, economic instabili 
market trends, changing consumer behavior, retail disruption, and digitalization. 


RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK 


BOARD OVERSIGHT 


Board of Directors 
The Board has oversight responsibility for PepsiCo’s integrated risk management framework. Throughout the year, 
the Board and the relevant Committees receive updates from management with respect to various enterprise risk 


sto 


ditions 
ty, labor 


management issues and dedicate a portion of their meetings to reviewing and discussing specific risk topics in greater 
detail, including risks related to cybersecurity, food safety, sustainability, human capital management, including diversity, 
equity and inclusion, and supply chain and commodity inflation. 


The Board has tasked designated Committees of the Board with oversight of certain categories of risk management, and 
the Committees report to the Board regularly on these matters. 


Audit Committee 

Reviews and assesses the guidelines and policies 
governing the Company's risk management and 
oversight processes, and assists with the Board's 
oversight of financial, compliance and employee safety 
risks facing the Company. 


The Audit Committee also assists the Board's oversight 
of the Company's compliance with legal and regulatory 
requirements, and the General Counsel and the 

Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer, who reports to the 
General Counsel, each meets regularly with the Audit 
Committee, including in executive session without 
management present. 


Compensation Committee 

Reviews the Company's employee compensation 
policies and practices to assess whether such 
policies and practices could lead to unnecessary 
risk-taking behavior. 


Nominating and Corporate 

Governance Committee 

Assists the Board in its oversight of the Company’s 
governance structure and other corporate governance 
matters, including succession planning. 


Sustainability, Diversity and Public 

Policy Committee 

Assists the Board in its oversight of the Company’s 
policies, programs and related risks that concern key 
sustainability, diversity, equity and inclusion and public 
policy matters, including climate change. 


34 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


Sources of Risk Identification & Mitigation 
PepsiCo Risk Committee (PRC) 
= Comprised of a cross-functional, geographically diverse, senior management group, including PepsiCo's Chairman of the 
Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Sector Chief Executive Officers and 
the heads of Corporate Affairs, Human Resources, Research & Development, Information Technology, Sustainability, Strategy, 
Transformation, International Beverages, Commercial, Global Operations, Marketing, and Financial Planning & Analysis 


= Meets regularly to identify, assess, prioritize and address top strategic, financial, operating, compliance, safety, 
reputational, and other risks 


= Responsible for reporting progress on risk mitigation efforts to the Board 


Division/Key Country Risk Committees 
= Comprised of cross-functional senior management teams 


= Meet regularly to identify, assess, prioritize and address division and country-specific business risks 


Risk Management Office (RMO) 
= Manages the overall risk management process 


= Provides ongoing guidance, tools and analytical support to the PRC and division and key country risk committees 


= Identifies and assesses potential risks and facilitates ongoing communication between the parties, as well as the 
Board and Committees of the Board 


Internal Audit Department Disclosure Committee 

= Evaluates the ongoing effectiveness of key = Comprised of the General Counsel, Controller and 
internal controls through periodic audit and heads of Internal Audit, Financial Planning & Analysis 
review procedures and Investor Relations 


= Evaluates information from PepsiCo's integrated risk 
management framework as part of the Disclosure 
Committee's monitoring of the integrity and effectiveness 
of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures 


Law and Compliance & Ethics 
= Lead and coordinate compliance policies and practices 


OVERSIGHT OF CERTAIN KEY RISKS 


Oversight Due to the critical nature of food safety to our business, the full Board oversees and regularly interacts 
of Food with senior management, including the Company's Chief Science Officer, on food safety matters, such 
Safety Risks as evolving regulations, changes to the Company's product portfolio and supply chain infrastructure, 
ign @ key food safety risk areas and mitigation strategies. The Board is also appropriately advised of any 
© notable food safety incidents. 
Oversight of During 2023, the Board received information from, and actively engaged with, management on the 
Supply Chain impact of external factors on our transportation, labor and commodity availability and costs as well 


andCommodity as our manufacturing operations and supply chain, including geopolitical events, the inflationary cost 
Inflation Risks = environment, supply chain disruptions (including raw material shortages) and labor shortages, and 


the Company's efforts to mitigate the potential impact of such factors. 


Oversight of Given that cybersecurity risks can impact various areas of responsibility of the Committees of the 
Cybersecurity Board, the Board believes it is useful and effective for the full Board to maintain direct oversight 
Related Risks over cybersecurity matters. The Board receives and provides feedback on regular updates from 


management, including from the Company's Chief Strategy and Transformation Officer and the 


Company's Chief Information Security Officer, regarding cybersecurity governance processes, the 
status of projects to strengthen internal cybersecurity, results from third party assessments and also 
discusses any significant cyber incidents, including recent incidents throughout the industry and the 
emerging threat landscape. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 35 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


Oversight of The Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy Committee assists the Board in overseeing the 
Climate Change = management of long-term risks posed by climate change, including specific actions performed 
Related Risks in order to protect the Company from the negative effects of climate change. In addition, the 
ae Committee reviews PepsiCo's sustainability programs and goals related to reducing our climate 
impact in our operations throughout our value chain and monitors our progress toward achieving 
ee such goals. 
Oversight of The Board is actively engaged in overseeing senior management development and succession as 
Human Capital well as key human capital management strategies and potential related risks. The Compensation 
Management Committee oversees the design of all material employee benefit plans and programs, the Nominating 
Related Risks and Corporate Governance Committee oversees CEO and director succession plans, and the 
Ree Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy Committee oversees initiatives and progress related to 
a2 diversity, equity and inclusion. Each of the Committees provide reports and feedback to the full Board 
for its collective review and discussion. For more information, please see “The Board's Role in Human 
Capital Management and Talent Development” beginning on page 36 of this Proxy Statement. 
Oversight of The Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy Committee assists the Board in overseeing PepsiCo's 
Human Rights policies, practices and related risks that concern human rights matters. The Committee receives 
Related Risks and provides feedback on regular updates from management, including the Company's General 


Wy 


Counsel and Chief Human Righ 


Company's human rights due d 


vision for human rights at Pepsi 


ts Officer, regardin 
iligence programs, and action 
Co and across our broader val 


g emerging business and human rights tren 
s that have been taken to advan 
ue chain. In addition, the Board reviews 


ds, the 
ce our 


and approves PepsiCo’s annual statement detailin 
slavery and human trafficking in 


our business and supply chai 


g the actions we have taken to prevent modern 


> 


At its February 2024 meeting, the Compensation Committee reviewed th 


assessment and concluded that the risks 


arising from the Comp 


to have a material adverse effect on the Company. 


e results of the 2023 annual compensation risk 
any’s overall compensation programs are not reasonably likely 


The Company believes that the Board's leadership structure, discussed in detail under “Board Leadership Structure” on 
pages 25-27 of this Proxy Statement, supports the risk oversight function of the Board, with the Chairman and CEO uniquely 
positioned to identify emerging risks while the independent Presiding Director and Chairs of the Board's four Committees 
provide independent oversight of the Company's risk management programs. 


The Board's Role in Human Capital Management and 


Talent Development 


The Board believes that human capital management and talent development are vital to PepsiCo’s continued success. They 


are integral elements of our strategic framework and we strive to create a diverse and inc 


opportunities that will attract and retain 


the best and brightest 


Our Board's involvement in leadership development and succes 


provides in 
the CEO an 
the development of the process and pro 
To assist the Board, th 
to the posi 
Governance Commit 
settings. The Board h 
who are racially/ethn 


tee. The Board mee 
as overseen appoin 


ically diverse and/or 
team that brings a broad array of opinion 
appointment of Becky Schmitt as the new Chief Human Resources Officer of PepsiCo in 2023, to lead th 


put on important decisions in each of these areas. Th 
d oversight of other executive officer positions. The Nominating an 
tocols regarding succession plans for 
e CEO annually provides the Board with an 
tion of CEO, developed in consultation with the Presiding Director and the Chair of the 


ts regularly with high-p 
tments of current direc 


s and perspectives tha 


female, demonstrating our focus on building a highly ski 


usive workplace with meaningful 
in a competitive talent landscape. 


sion planning is systematic and on 
e Board has primary responsibility 


going, and the Board 

for succession planning for 
d Corporate Governance Committee oversees 
the CEO, and annually reviews these protocols. 
assessment of senior managers and their potential to succeed 
ominating and Corporate 
otential executives, both in small group and one-on-one 

t reports of the CEO, who include seven executives globally 
led and diverse executive 

t are reflective of our global businesses. This includes the 

e global Human 


Resources organization, including all aspects of people management and advancing our efforts to attract world-class talent 


and future-proof our workforce. 


36 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


With respect to the broader organization, our Board is actively engaged in the oversight of our corporate culture and is 
continuously focused on developing a culture that is aligned with our long-term strategy. This includes reinforcing a set 
of behaviors throughout the Company that we think are critical to empower performance, which we call The PepsiCo Way, 
including voicing opinions fearlessly, raising the bar on talent and diversity and acting with integrity. 


PepsiCo is focused on developing a culture that is aligned with our long-term strategy, including 
reinforcing a set of behaviors throughout the Company that we think are critical to empower 
performance, which we call The PepsiCo Way: 


THE BE — FOCUS &GET VOICE RAISE THE BAR ACT 
INSUME THINGS DONE INION: N TALENT WITH 
PEPSICO | “fay CONSUMER onES 4) tHncspone Jr4) opinions 2 ied eens 
CENTRIC FAST fea) cations & DIVERSITY INTEGRITY 


WAY 


In addition, the Board and its applicable Committees regularly engage with employees at all levels of the organization to 
provide oversight on a broad range of other human capital management topics, including talent attraction and retention, 
diversity, equity and inclusion, pay equity, health and safety, training and development and compensation and benefits. 
Employee feedback is considered in designing and evaluating employee programs and benefits and in monitoring current 


practices for potential areas of improvement. 


The Board's Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy Committee, established in 2017, assists the Board in providing more 
focused oversight over PepsiCo’s policies and programs and related risks that concern key sustainability, diversity, equity and 
inclusion and public policy matters and to ensure that such topics remain central to the success of our business strategy. 


Human Capital Management Highlights 


PepsiCo, under the Board's oversight and guidance, has taken significant actions to enhance our diverse and inclusive culture, 
protect and train our associates and maintain our reputation as a great place to work. 


APPROACH 


We believe that our 
culture of diversity, 
equity and inclusion is a 


aa 


Diversity, competitive advantage 
Equity and that fuels innovation, 
Inclusion enhances our ability 


to attract and retain 
talent and strengthens 
our reputation. We 
continually strive to 
improve the attraction, 
retention, and 
advancement of our 
associates to ensure we 
sustain a high-caliber 
pipeline of talent that 
also represents the 
communities we serve. 


RECENT ACTIONS AND HIGHLIGHTS 


In 2020, PepsiCo launched our more than 
$570 million Racial Equality Journey in 

the US., an effort to break down systemic 
barriers to opportunity, starting with a set 
of initiatives in the United States focused on 
increasing Black and Hispanic managerial 
representation at PepsiCo to mirror 
workforce availability in the U.S., supporting 
Black- and Hispanic-owned businesses and 
lifting up Black and Hispanic American 
communities over five years. 


We are also continuing our efforts to recruit, 
develop and retain women globally through 
intentional efforts like our Transformational 
Leadership Program, Million Women Mentors 
and our Women's Inclusion Network and 
Women of Color Employee Resource Groups. 


We are committed to being transparent 
about our actions and provide a workforce 
demographics report on our website, which 
is updated every six months, to show how 
we are progressing against our goals. 


ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION 


More information on 
our Racial Equality 
Journey and initiatives 
to advance diversity can 
be found on our website 
at www.pepsico.com/ 
our-impact/esg-topics- 
a-z/diversity-equity-and- 
inclusion. 


Our U.S, 2022 
Consolidated 

EEO-1 Report, as 
submitted to the U.S. 
Equal Employment 
Opportunity 
Commission, can be 
found on our website at 
www.pepsico.com/our- 
impact/esg-topics-a-z/ 
employee-demographics. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 37 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


APPROACH 


PepsiCo supports and 
develops its associates 
through a variety 

of global training 

and development 
programs that build 
and strengthen 
employees’ leadership 
and professional 
skills, including career 
development plans, 
mentoring programs 
and in-house learning 
opportunities, such as 
PEP U Degreed, our 
internal global online 
learning resource. 


gS 


Training and 
Development 


RECENT ACTIONS AND HIGHLIGHTS 


Through PEP U Degreed, we offer learning 
solutions, such as industry magazines, TED talks 
and podcasts. PEP U Degreed also leverages 
artificial intelligence and machine learning to 
suggest personalized learning resources. 


In 2022, PepsiCo increased its investment in 
upskilling and reskilling by offering eligible U.S. 
associates—both frontline and professional— 
access to more than 100 degrees, certificates 
and trades programs, all tuition-free. PepsiCo 
also continued to offer tuition reimbursement 
annually up to $5,250 for an undergraduate 
course or $8,000 for a graduate course. 


In addition, PepsiCo launched SMILES, a global 
employee recognition program, in 2020 to 
provide an opportunity for managers and 
peers to celebrate their team members for The 
PepsiCo Way behaviors or a milestone. Since 
launch, more than one million SMILES have 
been generated on the platform. 


ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION 


More information on 
how we are supporting 
the growth and 
development of our 
associates can be 
found on our website 
at Www.pepsico.com/ 
our-impact/esg-topics- 
a-z/employee-learning- 
and-development. 


Protecting the safety, 
health, and well-being 
of our associates around 
the world is PepsiCo’s 
top priority. We strive to 
achieve an injury-free 
work environment. 


Health and 
Safety 


In addition, we offer a 
variety of programs, both 
in the U.S. and outside 
the U.S,, designed to help 
employees and their 
families improve their 
physical, financial and 
emotional health. 


We provide training on how to mitigate 
potential safety risks and continue to invest 

in emerging technologies to protect our 
employees from injuries, including leveraging 
fleet telernatics and distracted driving 
prevention technology, resulting in reductions 
in road traffic accidents, and deploying 
wearable ergonomic risk reduction devices. 


PepsiCo offers our employees comprehensive 
and competitive health and wellness benefits. 
Medical benefits that PepsiCo provides include 
support for complex and chronic medical 
conditions, including consultation services and 
care management programs. For example, 
PepsiCo's selffunded medical plans provide 
access to Health ACE, a confidential health 
advocate to help employees navigate their 
health benefits, including questions regarding 
plan coverage, resolving issues with claims 
and connecting employees to resources and 
programs that help meet their medical needs. 


In the U.S, PepsiCo's benefits programs help 
foster inclusion through flexible benefits and 
policies, including offering on-site childcare 
facilities in certain locations and market 
competitive parental leave policies that 
extend beyond federal guidelines, as well as 
piloting new programs, such as job sharing 
and part-time work arrangements. 


More information on 
our commitment to 

the health and safety of 
our associates can be 
found on our website 
at www.pepsico.com/ 
our-impact/esg-topics- 
a-z/environment-health- 
and-safety. 


Additional information 
on PepsiCo's employee 
well-being program 
can be found on our 
website at www.pepsico. 
com/our-impact/esg- 
topics-a-z/employee- 
well-being. 


38 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


Shareholder and Stakeholder Engagement 


We believe that regular, transparent communication with our shareholders and other stakeholders 
is essential to PepsiCo’s long-term success. 


We value the views of our shareholders and other stakeholders, and the input that we receive from them is a cornerstone of 
our corporate governance practices. Through these engagements, we seek to ensure that corporate governance at PepsiCo 
is a dynamic framework that can both accommodate the demands of a rapidly changing business environment and remain 
responsive to the priorities of our shareholders and other stakeholders. 


We engage with our shareholders and other stakeholders year-round in a variety of ways: 


= Our investor relations team regularly meets with shareholders, prospective shareholders and investment analysts. As 
appropriate, these meetings include our Chairman of the Board and CEO and Chief Financial Officer. These meetings are 
generally focused on our portfolio strategy, financial and operating performance, and capital allocation. 


= Members of our management team also regularly engage with shareholders and other stakeholders to discuss our 
sustainability strategy and initiatives, human capital management, Company culture, diversity, equity and inclusion, 
corporate governance and executive compensation practices and to solicit feedback on these and a variety of other topics 
of interest. 


= We frequently seek feedback from stakeholders in developing key sustainability programs and goals. For example, we 
engaged more than 50 stakeholders across several geographic areas during the development of the PepsiCo Positive (pep+) 
framework, including multilateral organizations, non-profit organizations and members of the academia. 


= Every year, during the two-month period before the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, we generally contact our 75 largest 
shareholders, who in 2023 represented approximately 49% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, offering to discuss a 
broad range of topics. 


= Subsequent to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, we continue our outreach efforts to develop a better understanding of 
the feedback received from shareholders and issues important to our shareholders. 


As reflected in our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Presiding Director is available for consultation and direct 
communication, if requested by major shareholders. Our engagement program also involves directors, as well as senior 
executives and associates from many different parts of the Company, including from PepsiCo’s communications, investor 
relations, executive compensation, compliance and ethics, legal, public policy and government affairs, and sustainability teams. 


In addition, we have had an ongoing dialogue with various other shareholders and stakeholders and regularly meet with 
diverse stakeholders often in collaboration with leading non-profit groups that bring together investors, non-governmental 
organizations and businesses in support of sustainability. During these meetings, our shareholders and other stakeholders 
engage with us on such topics as climate change, packaging, nutrition, water scarcity, public health, human capital 
management, diversity, equity and inclusion (including racial equality and gender pay parity), human rights and environmental 
matters related to PepsiCo's supply chain, nature and biodiversity, sustainable agriculture, sustainability reporting, and various 
other issues. We are also engaged with other key stakeholders through our active participation and membership in leading 
corporate governance organizations, such as the Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Governance, the Council of 
Institutional Investors, Society for Corporate Governance and the Stanford Institutional Investors’ Forum. 


Feedback Informs Our Board's Decisions. The Board and its Committees regularly receive updates on our engagement and 

a summary of communications is sent to the Board with each regularly scheduled Board meeting to provide insights into 
feedback from shareholders and other stakeholders and the scope of topics important to them. During Board meetings, 
PepsiCo's directors are also provided with the opportunity to discuss and ask questions on shareholder feedback. Our 
engagement activities have resulted in our receiving valuable feedback from our shareholders and other stakeholders who 
have provided important external viewpoints that inform our decisions and our strategy. 


For example, as a result, in part, of the dialogue and collaboration with our shareholders and other stakeholders in recent years: 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 39 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


Governance 


The Board amended our Corporate Governance Guidelines over the last several years to: 

— specifically state that the Board will consider a director's past shareholder vote in director elections 
when determining whether to accept a resignation offer of a director who does not receive 
majority vote support; 

— specifically mention food safety and cybersecurity as areas of Board oversight to reflect 
current practices; 

— decrease the total number of public company boards that a non-executive director can serve on 
from 5 to 4 and establish a limit of 2 total public company boards for directors who are public 
company executive officers; and 

— highlight the Board’s focus on diversity, by explicitly stating its commitment to actively seeking out 
highly qualified women and minority candidates, as well as candidates with diverse backgrounds, 
skills and experiences, to include in the pool from which Board nominees are chosen. 

We published a global workforce demographics data report and our U.S. 2022 Consolidated EEO-1 
Report as submitted to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, available at 
www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics-a-z/employee-demographics. 

We amended our Articles of Incorporation in 2019 to eliminate supermajority voting standards, as 
approved by our shareholders. 

The Board refined the roles of its Committees by establishing a Sustainability, Diversity and Public 
Policy Committee in 2017. The Committee assists the Board in providing more focused oversight over 
PepsiCo’s policies and programs and related risks that concern key sustainability, diversity, equity and 
inclusion and public policy matters. 

The Board implemented a proxy access right for shareholders in 2016. 


Sustainability 


We ensure that the regular engagement tearm includes a member with sustainability or public policy 
expertise, who is available for a dialogue with shareholders about sustainability matters. 


We continue to integrate purpose into our business strategy and brands by advancing our PepsiCo 
Positive (pep+) agenda, which drives action and progress across three key pillars — Positive Agriculture, 
Positive Value Chain and Positive Choices — bringing together a number of industry-leading goals 
under a comprehensive framework as we continue to implement a set of focused initiatives around 
regenerative agriculture, water stewardship, sustainable packaging, products, climate change, and 
people, to help build a more sustainable food system. More information on pep+ can be accessed on 
www.pepsico.com/pepsicopositive. 

We also continue to enhance the Company's sustainability reporting suite and provide our annual 
sustainability updates in a streamlined ESG Summary, available at www.pepsico.com/our-impact/ 
sustainability/esg-summary, which links seamlessly with more detailed and evergreen reporting in 

our ESG Topics A-Z platform available at www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics-a-z. In addition, 

we continue to publish annual ESG performance metrics and align our public disclosures with key 
reporting frameworks including the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the Task 
Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 


We published our first Human Rights Report in 2020, which provides comprehensive information on our 
efforts to advance human rights throughout our full value chain, and an update on our salient human 
rights issues in 2022, which are available at www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics-a-z/human-rights. 
We publish a report of the PepsiCo Foundation’s charitable contributions for the prior fiscal year, which 
is available at www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics-a-z/philanthropy, to provide information that will 
be provided in its U.S. tax returns in a reader-friendly format. 

We also publish a global list of contributions to scientific organizations of which PepsiCo is a member, 
which is available at www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics-a-z/public-policy-engagement-political- 
activities-and-contribution-guidelines. 


Compensation =x 


The Compensation Committee adopted a cash severance policy under which the Company will seek 
shareholder ratification of new severance agreements with an executive officer that provides for certain 
cash severance benefits exceeding 2.99 times the sum of the executive officer's base salary and target 
annual incentive award (or average of prior three years of actual annual incentive awards, if greater). 


We perform comprehensive reviews of feedback from shareholders. In 2023, the Compensation 
Committee updated the compensation peer group to ensure it remains appropriate in light of changes 
in business profile and relative size. We will maintain the current compensation program established 

in 2020 as it aligns to our business strategy, as well as our core principles, and will continue to take 
shareholder feedback into consideration. 


40 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


Our Commitment to Sustainable Business Practices 


We are focused on making our Company Faster, Stronger and Better at meeting the needs of our shareholders, 
customers, consumers, partners and communities, while caring for our planet and 
inspiring our associates around the world. 


Our long-term sustainability goals have been woven into our business since we first articulated our purpose agenda over 
fifteen years ago, and we continue to believe our strong pep+ agenda will enable PepsiCo to run a successful global company 
that creates long-term value for society and our shareholders. 


Throughout the year, the Board and the relevant Committees receive updates from and discuss with management 
sustainability, human capital management, including diversity, equity and inclusion, and public policy matters, including the 
Company's key programs and related goals on these topics and progress toward achieving those goals. 


To assist our Board in its oversight and to align with our pep+ agenda, the Board also refined the roles of its Committees by 
establishing a Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy Committee in 2017. This Committee, which is comprised entirely of 
independent directors, assists the Board in providing more focused oversight over the Company's policies, programs and 
related risks that concern key sustainability, diversity, equity and inclusion and public policy matters. 


pep+ Progress 


PepsiCo is pleased to share the progress we are making in our sustainability journey. In 2021, we introduced PepsiCo Positive 
(pep+), a strategic end-to-end transformation with sustainability and human capital at the center of how the company will 
create growth and value by operating within planetary boundaries and inspiring positive change for the planet and people. 
pep+ guides how PepsiCo is transforming its business operations: from sourcing ingredients and making and selling its 
products in a more sustainable way, to leveraging its more than one billion connections with consumers each day to take 
sustainability mainstream and engage people to make choices that are better for themselves and the planet. pep+ drives 
action and progress across three key pillars — Positive Agriculture, Positive Value Chain and Positive Choices — bringing 
together our numerous industry-leading goals for 2025, 2030 and beyond under a comprehensive framework. In pursuit of 
our pep+ agenda, we continue to implement a set of focused initiatives around regenerative agriculture, water stewardship, 
sustainable packaging, products, climate change and people to help build a more sustainable food system. Our sustainability 
performance goals broaden our efforts in a way that responds to changing consumer and societal needs and focus on building 
a healthier future for all of our stakeholders. 


PEP+ HIGHLIGHTS 


® 


Positive Agriculture 


We're working to source 
our crops & ingredients 

in ways that help restore 

the earth and strengthen 
farming communities 


SUSTAINABLY SOURCED INGREDIENTS 


REGENERATIVE AGRICULTURE 


100% of our grower-sourced crops 
(potatoes, whole corn and oats) are 
sustainably sourced in 27 countries, 
and more than 90% of these crops 
are sustainably sourced globally as 
of 2023", 


PepsiCo and Walmart announced a 
seven-year collaboration to pursue up to 
$120 million worth of investments to 
help improve soil and water health 
across U.S. and Canadian farmland — 
helping to lower carbon emissions while 
supporting the pep+ goal of spreading 
the adoption of regenerative agriculture 
practices across 7 million acres by 2030. 


® 


CLIMATE 


In 2023, we continued to work toward our 


PACKAGING 


In 2023, 31 markets had at least one 


—s 
Positive Value goal of 100% renewable electricityinour PepsiCo product with 100% recycled 
Chain direct operations, and approximately PET plastic (rPET) in its packaging, 


We're helping to build 
a circular and inclusive 
value chain 


80% of the electricity we used globally 
was from renewable sources”. 


including India, where Pepsi Black was 
the first carbonated beverage to market 
with a 100% rPET bottle after the country’s 
decision to permit its use in food and 
beverage applications. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 41 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


. WATER PEOPLE 
‘dy 


In 2023, we achieved our goal of 25% As of 2023, women hold 45% of our 
= improvement in operational water-use global manager roles and continue to be a 
Positive Value efficiency in high water-risk areas vs.2015 paid within 1% of men”. 
Chain baseline, two years ahead of schedule), 
; We also increased our Black and 

ue . helping to build Hispanic managerial populations in the 
een EINE U.S. to 9.2% and 10.3%, respectively”. 

value chain 

(continued) 


EXPANDED PORTFOLIO OFFERINGS 


We are more than 83% of the way toward our 2025 targets in reducing 
added sugars, sodium, and saturated fat across our beverage and convenient 
foods portfolio®. 


Positive Choices In 2023, we introduced two new nutrition goals: 
We're inspiring people 


By 2030, we aim for at least 75% of our By 2030, we aim to deliver 145 billion 5 
through our brands to ¥ oe ree ¥ ee e a 


=/ 


global convenient foods portfolio portions of diverse ingredients = 
make choices that create 
volume to meet or be below annually in our global convenient foods 
more smiles for them ded foli , ‘ il id 
a heals recommended category portfolio. Each portion will provide 
” " sodium targets”. approximately 10% of the suggested daily 


amount of the relevant ingredient. 


For more information, please visit www.pepsico.com/PepsiCoPositive. 


) For grower-sourced crops, sustainable sourcing refers to meeting the independently verified environmental, social and economic principles of 
PepsiCo’s Sustainable Farming Program (SFP). For more information on PepsiCo’s SFP and the applicable standards, please see www.pepsico.com/ 
esg-topics-a-z/agriculture. 

® The goal is being accomplished using a diversified portfolio of solutions, including renewable energy certificates. 

%) High water-risk locations defined by World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct tool. Results reflect the exclusion of third-party facilities. Between 2006- 
2015, water-use efficiency improved by 26% in global legacy operations at the date of target setting. 

Based on pay equity program implemented in 71 countries that collectively make up more than 99% of our salaried employee population, after 
controlling for legitimate drivers of pay such as job level, geographic location, and performance ratings; based on base compensation. 

© To reflect workforce availability of the communities where we operate. 

© — Based on 2022 data in our Top 26 Beverage markets, which represent 78% of our global beverage volume, and our Top 23 Convenien 
Foods markets, which represent 86% of our global convenient foods volume. Results reflect exclusion of Hangzhou Haomusi Food Co,, Ltd. 
(‘Be & Cheery’) portfolio. 


ow 


“ These targets have been set across 30 product categories ranging from hot cereals to potato and vegetable chips to tortilla chips and are 


approximately 15 — 30% lower than our current target of 1.3mg/kcal. 


Please see our website (www.pepsico.com) under “Our Impact” and the following notes for additional information regarding our pep+ goals and progress 
highlights in this Proxy Statement. Unless otherwise noted, goals and progress reflect the impact of our acquisitions of Be & Cheery, BFY Brands, Inc., 
Pioneer Food Group Ltd. ("Pioneer Foods’), and SodaStream International Ltd. and our divestiture of Tropicana, Naked and other select juice brands. 
Organizational changes (e.g., acquisitions, mergers, and divestitures) are evaluated to determine if they have a significant impact on our sustainability 
performance and, as data becomes available, all reported years for metrics impacted by an organizational change are recast to consistently reflect the 
impact of the organizational change. 


Our annual sustainability updates—the ESG Summary—and web-based interactive environmental, social and governance 
“ESG") Topics A-Z reporting platform on the Company's website at www.pepsico.com under “Our Impact’”—“Sustainability” 
presents our sustainability goals and provides data, as well as examples of our efforts to achieve these goals. 


42 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Political Contributions Policy 


Corporate Governance at PepsiCo 


In 2005, the Board of Directors adopted a Political Contributions Policy for the Company, which is amended from time to time. The 
Political Contributions Policy states, among other things, that details on PepsiCo’s political contributions are posted on our website 
onan annual basis, and that while the Company generally does not provide contributions from corporate funds to candidates 
outside the U.S., that it will appropriately post any such contribution along with other political contributions on our website. 


The Political Contributions Policy, together with other policies and procedures of the Company, guide PepsiCo's approach to 
political contributions. As specified in its Charter, the Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy Committee oversees this policy 
and is responsible for reviewing the Company's key public policy trends, issues and regulatory matters, its engagement in 

the public policy process and the Company's political activities and expenditures. In addition, our Board receives information 


regarding the Company's public po 


In keeping with our goal of transparen 


posted at www.pepsico.com under “Our lmpact’— 


cy initiatives and developments as necessary. 


cy, our Political Contributions Policy and our annual US. political contributions are 
“ESG Topics A-Z’—“Ethics & Governance’— “Public Policy Engagement, Political 


Activities and Contributions Guidelines.” Additionally, over the years, we have significantly enhanced our website disclosure of 


political soending and lobbying activi 


ties by including the fo 


a link to PepsiCo’s quarterly federal 


obbying reports; 


lowing information: 


= the total annual amount of PepsiCo’s federal lobbying-related expenditures in the United States; 


® information about our key lobbying priorities and our Board's oversight of political spending and lobbying activities; 


® criteria to be used in connection with all contributions, inc 


uding the candidate's overall character, integrity, personal 


conduct, record of public service and commitment to supporting diversity, equity and inclusion; 


= a global list of key trade associations and policy groups that lobby on behalf of PepsiCo to which PepsiCo contributes over 


$25,000 annually; and 


= the names of the lobbyist firms with which we directly contract. 


Communications with the Board 


The PepsiCo Corporate Law Department reviews all communications sent to the Board of Directors and regularly provides to 
the Board a summary of communications that relate to the functions of the Board or a Board Committee or that otherwise 
warrant Board attention. Copies of such communications are also made available to the Board. Directors may at any time 


discuss the Board communications received by the Company. In addition, the Corporate Law Department may forward certain 
communications only to the Presiding Director, the Chair of the relevant Committee or the individual Board member to whom 


a communication is directed. Concerns relating to PepsiCo’s accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters are 
referred directly to members of the Audit Committee. Those items that are unrelated to the duties and responsibilities of the 


Board or its Committees may not be provided to the Board by the Corporate Law Department, including, without limitation, 
business solicitations, advertisements and surveys; requests for donations and sponsorships; job referral materials such as 
resumes; product-related communications; unsolicited ideas and business proposals; and material that is determined to be 


illegal or otherwise inappropriate. 


Shareholders and other interested parties may send communications directed to the Board, a Committee of the Board, 
Presiding Director, independent directors as a group or an individual director by any of the following means: 


By Phone & 
1-866-626-0633 


By Mail a 

PepsiCo Board of Directors 
ATTN: Corporate Secretary 
PepsiCo, Inc. 

700 Anderson Hill Road 
Purchase, New York 10577 


Online @ 


Submit a communication through 

our website www.pepsico.com under 
“Who We Are’—‘Corporate Governance’— 
“Contacting the Board of Directors” 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 43 


2023 Director Compensation 


Non-employee directors are compensated for their service on the Board as described below. Directors who are employees of 
the Company receive no additional compensation for serving as directors. 


Annual Compensation 


Every year, our Board of Directors reviews the competitiveness of our compensation program for non-employee directors. 
Based on the results of a competitive analysis, supported by the Board's independent compensation consultant, FW Cook, and 
upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, in 2023, the Board decided to maintain the current annual cash 
retainer of $120,000 and annual equity retainer of $200,000. 


ANNUAL DIRECTOR COMPENSATION ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION 


An additional $30,000 annual cash retainer 


preneee = Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Chair 


Annual Cash Retainer 


= Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy Committee Chair 
An additional $40,000 annual cash retainer 
= Audit Committee Chair 

$200,000 = Compensation Committee Chair 


Annual Equity Retainer An additional $50,000 annual cash retainer 
= Presiding Director 


The $200,000 annual equity retainer is provided in phantom units of PepsiCo Common Stock that are immediately vested and 
are payable on the first day of the calendar quarter following the first anniversary of the director's retirement or resignation 
from PepsiCo’s Board of Directors, or as of a later date selected by the director. The number of phantom units of PepsiCo 
Common Stock granted to each director on October 1, 2023 was determined by dividing the $200,000 equity retainer value by 
the closing price of Pepsico Common Stock on the next business day following the grant date, which was $169.17. As such, each 
director was granted 1,182 phantom units, each representing the right to receive one share of PepsiCo Common Stock and 
dividend equivalents. Dividend equivalents are reinvested in additional phantom units. Directors may also elect to defer their 
cash compensation into phantom units payable at the end of the deferral period selected by the directors. 


Directors are reimbursed for expenses incurred to attend Board and Committee meetings and receive business travel and 
accident insurance coverage. Directors do not receive any meeting fees and do not have a retirement plan or receive any 
benefits such as life or medical insurance. Directors are eligible for matching of charitable contributions through the PepsiCo 
Foundation, which is generally available to all PepsiCo employees. 


Initial Share Grant 


Each newly appointed non-employee director receives a one-time grant of 1,000 shares of Pepsico Common Stock when they 
join the Board. These shares are immediately vested, but must be held until the director leaves the Board. 


Governance Features 


Our compensation program for non-employee directors operates with the following market-leading governance features: 


Shareholder-Approved Cap on Pay. The PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive (“LTI’) Plan imposes a limit on the awards that may be granted 
to any non-employee director in a single calendar year in the following amounts: $500,000 for annual equity awards, $500,000 for 
annual cash retainers, and $250,000 for one-time initial awards to any newly appointed or elected non-employee director. 


Stock Ownership Requirements. To reinforce our ownership philosophy, non-employee directors are required to own shares of 
PepsiCo Common Stock equal to at least $600,000 (five times the annual cash retainer). Shares or phantom units of PepsiCo 

Common Stock held either directly by the non-employee director (or immediate family members), in the director's deferred 
compensation account, or in a trust for the benefit of immediate family members, count towards satisfying the requirement. 


Non-employee directors have five years from their appointment to meet their stock ownership requirement. All of our 
non-employee directors have met or are on track to meet their ownership requirements within the five-year period. 


44 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


2023 Director Compensation 


Clawback Provision. Under the terms of our long-term incentive plans, non-employee directors who violate PepsiCo’s Global 
Code of Conduct, who violate applicable non-compete provisions, or who engage in gross misconduct may be subject to 
financial consequences. Our long-term incentive plans permit PepsiCo to cancel a non-employee director's outstanding equity 
awards if PepsiCo determines that the non-employee director has committed any such violation. The long-term incentive plans 
also permit PepsiCo to clawback all gains from exercised stock options received within the 12 months preceding the violation. 


Prohibition on Hedging and Pledging. Our Insider Trading Policy prohibits all directors (including non-employee directors) from 
using any strategies or products (such as derivative securities or short-selling techniques) to hedge against the potential 
changes in the value of PepsiCo Common Stock. In addition, directors may not hold PepsiCo securities in a margin account or 
pledge PepsiCo stock or PepsiCo stock options as collateral for a loan. 


Limited Trading Windows. Our directors (including non-employee directors) can only transact in PepsiCo securities during 
approved trading windows after satisfying mandatory clearance requirements. 


2023 Non-Employee Director Compensation 


The following table summarizes the compensation of the non-employee directors for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023. 


Fees Earned or Stock All Other 

Paid in Cash Awards Compensation Total 
Name ($) ($)® ($)® ($) 
Segun Agbaje 120,000 200,000 = 320,000 
Jennifer Bailey” 70,000 475,849 — 545,849 
Shona L. Brown”) 66,667 — —_— 66,667 
Cesar Conde 43,333 200,000 = 343,333 
lan Cook 70,000 200,000 30,000 400,000 
Edith W. Cooper 20,000 200,000 20,080 340,080 
Susan M. Diamond“ 70,000 475,849 30,000 575,849 
Dina Dublon 20,000 200,000 30,000 350,000 
Michelle Gass 20,000 200,000 — 320,000 
Dave J. Lewis 20,000 200,000 _ 320,000 
David C. Page 20,000 200,000 10,080 330,080 
Robert C. Pohlad 50,000 200,000 _ 350,000 
Daniel Vasella 20,000 200,000 20,000 340,000 
Darren Walker 50,000 200,000 — 350,000 
Alberto Weisser 160,000 200,000 — 360,000 

") The retainer fee reflects a payment of $60,000 made in arrears in June 2023 for service during the period December 1, 2022 through May 31, 2023 and a 
payment of $60,000 made in arrears in December 2023 for service during the period June 1, 2023 through November 30, 2023. The following directors 


(4) 


(5) 


elected to defer all of their 2022-2023 cash compensation into PepsiCo's director deferral program: Mr. Agbaje deferred his $120,000 retainer fees into 685 
phantom stock units, Ms. Bailey deferred her $70,000 retainer fees into 411 phantom stock units, Ms. Cooper deferred her $120,000 retainer fees into 685 
phantom stock units, Ms. Diamond deferred her $70,000 retainer fees into 411 phantom stock units, and Dr. Vasella deferred his $120,000 retainer fees 
into 685 phantom stock units. The number of phantom units of Pepsico Common Stock Mr. Agbaje, Mmes. Bailey, Cooper, and Diamond, and Dr. Vasella 
deferred on June 1, 2023 and December 1, 2023 was determined by dividing the deferred cash compensation by the closing price of Pepsico Common 
Stock on the grant date (or the next trading day), which was $182.19 and $168.69, respectively. 


The amounts reported for stock awards represent the full grant date fair value of the phantom stock units granted in 2023 calculated in accordance with 
the accounting guidance on share-based payments. 


The amounts reported in this column represent PepsiCo Foundation matching gifts, other charitable contributions or commitments, and the value 

of gifts. Under the matching gift program, the PepsiCo Foundation matches cash or stock donations to recognized tax-exempt organizations. The 
PepsiCo Foundation annual contributions are generally capped at a total of $10,000, which was increased by $20,000 in October 2023 during our annual 
corporate-wide giving campaign that encourages associates to give back, for a maximum of $30,000 for the fiscal year. PepsiCo Foundation matching 
gift contributions are available to all PepsiCo employees and PepsiCo non-employee directors. With respect to Mr. Cook, Mmes. Cooper, Diamond, 

and Dublon, and Drs. Page and Vasella, the PepsiCo Foundation made matching contributions of $30,000, $20,000, $30,000, $30,000, $10,000, and 
$20,000, respectively. 


Upon joining the Board on May 3, 2023, Mmes. Bailey and Diamond each received the one-time grant of 1,000 shares of PepsiCo Common Stock granted 
to all new directors. Each also received a pro-rated annual cash retainer of $10,000 for service from May 3, 2023 through May 31, 2023, a pro-rated equity 
retainer of $83,334 for service from May 3, 2023 through September 30, 2023, the $200,000 annual equity retainer granted on October 1, 2023 for 

the period of October 1, 2023 through September 30, 2024, and the cash retainer of $60,000 on December 1, 2023 for service from June 1, 2023 to 
November 30, 2023. 


Dr. Brown retired from the Board effective May 3, 2023; therefore, her cash retainer fee includes a pro-rata amount of $66,667 for service from 
December 1, 2022 to May 3, 2023. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 45 


Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered 
Public Accounting Firm (Proxy Item No. 2) 


The Audit Committee is directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, retention and oversight of the independent 
registered public accounting firm (taking into account the vote on shareholder ratification). The Audit Committee has 
appointed KPMG LLP ("KPMG") as PepsiCo's independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2024. KPMG has 
served as PepsiCo’s independent registered public accounting firm since 1990. While we are not required by our By-Laws 

or otherwise to seek shareholder ratification of the appointment of KPMG as our independent registered public accounting 
firm, we are doing so as a matter of good corporate governance. If the shareholders do not ratify the appointment, the Audit 
Committee will take the vote into consideration when determining whether or not to retain KPMG. The Audit Committee 
believes that the continued retention of KPMG as our independent registered public accounting firm is in the best interests of 
our shareholders. Even if the selection of KPMG is ratified by shareholders, the Audit Committee in its discretion may select a 
different independent registered public accounting firm at any time during the year if it determines that such a change would 
be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. 


Representatives of KPMG are expected to be present and available to answer appropriate questions at the 2024 Annual 
eeting and will have an opportunity to make statements during the meeting if they desire to do so. 


appointment of KPMG as PepsiCo’s independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal 


Q Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “FOR” the ratification of the 
year 2024. 


Audit Committee Report 


PepsiCo's Audit Committee reports to, and acts on behalf of, the Board. The Audit Committee is comprised solely of directors 
who satisfy applicable independence and other requirements of Nasdaq and applicable securities laws. A majority of the 
members of the Audit Committee are “audit committee financial experts” as defined by SEC rules and regulations. 


The Audit Committee's purpose and responsibilities are set forth in its charter, which is approved and adopted by the Board 
and is available on PepsiCo’s website at www.pepsico.com under “Who We Are’—‘Corporate Governance.” The Audit Committee's 
Charter is reviewed at least annually and updated, as appropriate, to address changes in regulatory requirements, authoritative 


guidance, evolving oversight practices and investor feedback. 


During 2023, the Audit Committee met eight times and fulfilled each of its duties and responsibilities as outlined in its charter, 
including reviewing and assessing the guidelines and policies governing PepsiCo's risk management and oversight processes, 
overseeing PepsiCo’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements (including meeting with the Global Chief Compliance 
& Ethics Officer to discuss PepsiCo’s compliance program), receiving an update on PepsiCo's Law Department's compliance 
with Part 205 of Section 307 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 regarding standards of professional conduct for attorneys and 
regularly meeting separately with PepsiCo's General Counsel, Global Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer, General Auditor, Chief 
Financial Officer and representatives of the independent registered public accounting firm (see page 31 of this Proxy Statement 
for additional information regarding the Audit Committee’s responsibilities). During 2023, the Audit Committee also reviewed 
and considered how the deadly conflict in Ukraine continued to impact each of its areas of responsibility, including its oversight 
of PepsiCo’s independent registered public accounting firm, the quality and integrity of PepsiCo’s financial statements and 
internal control over financial reporting, PepsiCo’s internal audit function, and enterprise risk management processes. 


Selection and Oversight of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. The Audit Committee assists the Board with its 
oversight of PepsiCo’s independent registered public accounting firm's qualifications and independence. The Audit Committee 
is responsible for appointing, compensating, retaining and overseeing the work of PepsiCo’s independent registered public 
accounting firm, including approving any services provided by the firm, periodically reviewing and evaluating the performance 
of the lead audit partner, as well as overseeing the required rotation of KPMG's lead audit partner and, through the Audit 
Committee Chair as its representative, reviewing and considering the selection of the lead audit partner. KPMG has served as 
PepsiCo's independent registered public accounting firm since 1990. KPMG's current lead audit partner is required to rotate 
after completion of the fiscal year 2027 audit. 


46 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (Proxy Item No. 2) 


The Audit Committee recognizes the importance of maintaining the independence of PepsiCo’s auditor, both in fact and in 
appearance. In 2023, the Audit Committee received and reviewed the written disclosures and the letter from KPMG required 

by applicable requirements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB") regarding KPMG’s communications 
with the Audit Committee concerning independence, and discussed with KPMG the firm's independence from PepsiCo and 
management. These discussions included, among other things, a review of the nature of, and fees paid to, KPMG for non-audit 
services and the compatibility of such services with maintaining KPMG's independence (see page 48 of this Proxy Statement for 
additional information). The Audit Committee concurred with KPMG's conclusion that they are independent from PepsiCo and 
its management. 


The Audit Committee also periodically considers whether there should be a rotation of PepsiCo's independent registered 
public accounting firm. In addition to KPMG's independence from PepsiCo and management, the Audit Committee also 
considers several other factors in deciding whether to re-engage KPMG, including: the quality of KPMG's staff, work and quality 
control; KPMG's policies related to independence; KPMG's global reach; and KPMG's capability and expertise to perform an audit 
of PepsiCo’s financial statements and internal control over financial reporting, given the breadth and complexity of PepsiCo’s 
business and global footprint. The Audit Committee also discussed with KPMG the status or results of the PCAOB's reports 

on its inspections of KPMG and discussed with KPMG certain legal and regulatory proceedings, both pending and resolved, 
against KPMG. 


Based on the foregoing, the Audit Committee has retained KPMG as PepsiCo’s independent registered public accounting firm 
for the fiscal year 2024 and recommends that shareholders ratify this appointment (see page 46 of this Proxy Statement for 
additional information regarding the shareholder vote). 


Review and Recommendation Regarding Financial Statements. PepsiCo’s management is responsible for preparing PepsiCo’s 
financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for assessing the effectiveness of 
internal control over financial reporting. KPMG is responsible for expressing an opinion on PepsiCo's financial statements and an 
opinion on PepsiCo’s internal control over financial reporting based on its audits. The Audit Committee does not itself prepare 
financial statements or perform audits, and its members are not auditors or certifiers of PepsiCo’s financial statements. 


In the performance of its oversight function, the Audit Committee met with management and KPMG to review and discuss 
PepsiCo's audited financial statements and internal control over financial reporting, asked management and KPMG questions 
relating to such matters and discussed with KPMG the matters required to be discussed by applicable PCAOB auditing 
standards. These meetings and discussions included a review of the critical accounting policies applied by PepsiCo in the 
preparation of its financial statements and the quality (and not just the acceptability) of the accounting principles utilized, the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates and judgments, the critical audit matters identified by KPMG during the 
audit, and the disclosures in PepsiCo’s consolidated financial statements. Based on the reviews and discussions described in 
this report, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that the audited financial statements be included in the Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023, for filing with the SEC. 


The Audit Committee 
Alberto Weisser, Chair Edith W. Cooper 
Segun Agbaje Susan M. Diamond 


Jennifer Bailey 


The information contained in the above report will not be deemed to be “soliciting material” or “filed” with the SEC, nor will 
this information be incorporated into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act"), or the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act”), except to the extent the Company specifically incorporates 
such report by reference. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 47 


Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (Proxy Item No. 2) 


Audit and Other Fees 


The following table presents fees incurred for professional audit services rendered by KPMG, the Company’s independent 
registered public accounting firm, for the audit of the Company’s annual consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2023 
and 2022, and fees billed for other services rendered by KPMG in fiscal years 2023 and 2022. 


2023 2022 
Audit fees! $27,447,000 $26,938,000 
Audit-related fees? S$ 1,966,000 $ 1,656,000 
Tax fees?) § 165,000 $ 188,000 
All other fees S — § — 


"Audit fees for fiscal years 2023 and 2022 consisted of fees for the audits of the Company's annual consolidated financial statements, and the audit of the 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, the reviews of the financial statements included in the Company’s Quarterly 
Reports on Form 10-Q and services related to statutory filings or engagements. 

®  Audit-related fees for fiscal years 2023 and 2022 consisted primarily of the audits of certain employee benefit plans, the issuance of comfort letters, 

agreed upon procedures, and other attestation reports. 

Tax fees for fiscal years 2023 and 2022 consisted primarily of international tax compliance services. 


‘ KPMG was not engaged in fiscal years 2023 or 2022 for any services other than those described above. 


Pre-Approval Policy and Procedures 


We understand the need for the independent registered public accounting firm to maintain its objectivity and independence, 
both in appearance and in fact, in its audit of PepsiCo's consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, the Audit Committee 
has adopted the PepsiCo Policy for Pre-Approval of Audit, Audit-Related and Non-Audit Services. The policy provides that 

the Audit Committee will engage the independent registered public accounting firm for the audit of PepsiCo’s consolidated 
financial statements and audit-related, tax and other non-audit services in accordance with the terms of the policy. The policy 
provides that on an annual basis the independent registered public accounting firm's global lead audit partner will review with 
the Audit Committee the services the independent registered public accounting firm expects to provide in the coming year 
and the related fee estimates, and that the Audit Committee will consider for pre-approval a schedule of such services. The 
policy further provides that the Audit Committee will specifically pre-approve engagements of the independent registered 
public accounting firm for services that are not pre-approved through the annual process. The Audit Committee Chair is 
authorized under the policy to pre-approve any audit, audit-related, tax or other non-audit services between Audit Committee 
meetings, provided such interim pre-approvals are reviewed with the full Audit Committee at its next meeting. In addition, the 
Audit Committee receives a status report at each of its regularly scheduled meetings regarding audit, audit-related, tax and 
other non-audit services that the independent registered public accounting firm has been pre-approved to perform, has been 
asked to provide or may be expected to provide during the balance of the year. The Audit Committee pre-approved all services 
provided by KPMG during fiscal years 2023 and 2022 in accordance with the Policy for Pre-Approval of Audit, Audit-Related and 
Non-Audit Services. 


48 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Advisory Approval of Executive Compensation 
(Proxy Item No. 3) 


Pursuant to Section 14A of the Exchange Act, the Company asks shareholders to cast an advisory vote to approve the 
compensation of our Named Executive Officers disclosed in the “Executive Compensation” section beginning on page 50 of 
this Proxy Statement. While this vote is non-binding, PepsiCo values the opinions of its shareholders and, consistent with our 
record of shareholder engagement, will consider the outcome of the vote when making future compensation decisions. 


In considering your vote, we invite you to review the Compensation Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 50 of this Proxy 
Statement. As described in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, we believe that PepsiCo’s executive compensation 
programs effectively align the interests of our executive officers with those of our shareholders by linking a significant portion 
of their compensation to PepsiCo's performance and by providing a competitive level of compensation designed to recruit, 
retain, and motivate talented executives critical to PepsiCo’s long-term success. 


We are asking our shareholders to vote FOR, in an advisory vote, the following resolution: 


“Resolved, the shareholders of PepsiCo approve, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's Named Executive 
Officers as disclosed pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K, including the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the 2023 
Summary Compensation Table, the other compensation tables and the related notes and narratives on pages 50-85 of this 
Proxy Statement for the 2024 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.” 


The Board has adopted a policy of providing annual advisory approvals of the compensation of our Named Executive Officers. 
The next advisory approval of executive compensation will occur at the 2025 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 


Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “FOR” the compensation of our 
Named Executive Officers. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 49 


Executive Compensation 


Compensation Discussion and Analysis 


This Compensation Discussion and Analysis provides a description of PepsiCo’s executive compensation philosophy and 
programs, and more specifically, discusses the process in determining the compensation of our NEOs. 


Ramon L. James “Jamie” Steven Kirk Silviu Hugh F. 
Laguarta Caulfield’ Williams Tanner” Popovici Johnston” 
Chairman of the Executive Vice CEO, PepsiCo CEO, PepsiCo CEO, Europe Former Vice 
Board and CEO, President ("EVP") Foods North Beverages North Chairman, EVP and 
PepsiCo and Chief Financial America (“PFNA") America (“PBNA") CFO, PepsiCo 
Officer ("CFO"), 
PepsiCo 


Mr. Caulfield was promoted to EVP and CFO, PepsiCo effective November 30, 2023. 
® Mr. Tanner served as CEO, PBNA through February 2, 2024 when he retired from the Company. 
® Mr. Johnston served as Vice Chairman, EVP and CFO, PepsiCo until November 30, 2023 when he retired from the Company. 


PepsiCo Strategy and Vision 


Our journey to Be the Global Leader in Beverages and Convenient Foods by Winning with pep+ has led us to once again deliver 
strong performance and financial results in 2023 while placing sustainability and human capital at the center of how we create 
value and growth. This vision has been guided by our strategic aspiration to be an even Faster, Stronger and Better organization. 


Winning in the marketplace, Transforming our capabilities and Doing even more for our planet 
being (even) more consumer-centric costs and using new technologies and communities by integrating a 
and expanding our investments to our advantage sense of purpose into our 


business strategy 


Our businesses remain committed to leveraging the substantial investments made in our people, brands, supply chain, 
go-to-market systems, and technology to build competitive advantages and to enable us to deliver on our aspirations, 
resulting in strong marketplace performance and positive returns for our shareholders. 


Since our strategic vision was rolled out in 2019, we have continued to fortify our businesses, delivering the strongest five 
consecutive years of reported revenue growth over the last decade. Our total Net Revenue and Core EPS have risen more than 
35% since 2019 to the record levels achieved in 2023. This is a testament to the robust agenda we set out to accelerate growth 
and to effectuate our mission to create more smiles with every sip and every bite. 


50 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Executive Compensation 


2023 PepsiCo Performance Highlights 


PepsiCo exceeded most of its performance goals in 2023 despite operating in a complex macroeconomic environment and 
facing high inflationary pressure on operating expenses and commodities. Our sustained results highlight the determination of 
our associates, strength of our diversified portfolio, flexible go-to-market systems, and progress towards our Faster, Stronger and 
Better business aspirations, as we continued to demonstrate resiliency. 


To incentivize executive officers to deliver sustainable long-term value to shareholders, compensation is measured against key 
metrics which are critical for the execution of the Company’s strategy. Highlights of our 2023 performance include: 


9.5% 


Organic Revenue Growth"! 


Core Constant Free Cash Flow 
Currency EPS Growth”! Excluding Certain Items”! 


14% $9.1 Billion 


TSR 


-3.3% 


Cash Returned to Shareholders ——\ 


$7.7 Billion 


PepsiCo Compensation Principles 


Our executive compensation programs are designed to align the interests of our executive officers with our shareholders, 
underpinned by the following core principles. 


Pay for 6) Put the majority of executive officer pay at-risk, where both short-term and long-term 
Performance ps incentives depend on performance relative to predetermined goals 
Annual awards granted to executive officers never vest exclusively on continued 
employment 
Payout at target when PepsiCo achieves its internal performance targets 
Alignment with &» Tie performance objectives directly to each Faster, Stronger and Better aspiration to 
Business a drive forward our vision 
areteay Top-line and market share metrics reinforce our need to be Faster, bottom-line and 
capital management metrics provide a balance to help us be Stronger, and integrating 
purpose into strategic business imperatives allows us to be Better 
Shareholder © Directly link pay to the achievement of performance goals designed to foster the 
Value Creation fone) creation of sustainable long-term shareholder value 
Maintain stock ownership requirements for senior leadership which extend beyond 
employment with PepsiCo 
Market Pay 28 Provide market-competitive programs that enable PepsiCo to attract and retain highly 
Competitiveness al qualified and talented individuals 
Reward overachievement allowing for differentiation in talent 
Delivering 2, Recognize the achievement of individual and ESG goals, tailored to each executive 
Individual and = officer's role and responsibilities, that advance PepsiCo’'s strategic business imperatives 
ESG Objectives 


Embed goals into individual objectives which are tied to one or more of agriculture, 
climate, water, packaging, people, expanded portfolio offerings, and/or positive brands 
for the planet and people 


To evaluate performance in a manner consistent with how management evaluates our performance results and trends, the Compensation Committee 
applies certain Business Performance metrics that are measured on a non-GAAP basis as compensation performance measures to both long-term and 
annual incentive awards. Please refer to Appendix A to this Proxy Statement for a description and reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures 
relative to reported GAAP financial measures, and to pages 46-51 and 53 of PepsiCo’s 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
December 30, 2023 for a more detailed description of the items excluded from these measures. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 51 


Executive Compensation 


Impact of 2023 PepsiCo Performance on CEO Pay 


Chairman and CEO Performance Summary 


The Board of Directors evaluates the performance of Mr. Laguarta through a rigorous assessment of achievements relative 
to predetermined operational measures established by the Compensation Committee, with adjustments for individual 
performance. The annual incentive is fully at-risk based on performance and can range from 0% to 200% of target. 


For 2023, Mr. Laguarta’s annual incentive was determined by reference to the Business Performance metrics and Business 
Results under the “2023 Annual Incentive Award” section beginning on page 56 of this Proxy Statement, with primary focus on 
achievement of predetermined goals for each of the following measures: 


= Organic Revenue Growth®! 

= Free Cash Flow Excluding Certain Items”! 

= Relative Competitive Performance 

= Core Constant Currency Net Income Growth®!! 


In addition to the Business Performance metrics, the Compensation Committee considered Mr. Laguarta’s individual 
performance by assessing his progress relative to PepsiCo’s short- and long-term business strategy with an emphasis on the 
delivery of our aspirations to be Faster, Stronger and Better for our associates, communities, Consumers, customers, planet, and 
shareholders. 


In 2023, Mr. Laguarta provided strong strategic leadership in an ongoing challenging environment to drive PepsiCo to exceed 
most of its performance goals, while remaining focused on long-term value creation for its shareholders and navigating a 
dynamic operating environment. Financial, operational, and individual performance highlights under Mr. Laguarta’s leadership 
in 2023 include: 


Faster = Took decisive actions in certain categories and geographies to elevate our focus on selling profitable 
volume 


= Delivered Organic Revenue Growth"! of 9.5% in 2023, emphasized by eleven consecutive quarters of at 
least mid-single-digit Organic Revenue Growth®! 

= Generated Organic Revenue Growth"! of 8% for the North America divisions, 12% for the International 
divisions, 8% for the Global Beverages business, and 10% for the Global Convenient Foods business, 
reflecting the geographical and category diversity of our portfolio 

= Grew Core Constant Currency EPS"! by 14%, delivering the third consecutive year of double-digit Core 

jul Constant Currency EPS Growth®!, exceeding initial external guidance for the fiscal year and delivering 

value to shareholders 

= Gained savory snack market share in the U.S., Canada, and many of our international markets, including 
China, Brazil, India, Netherlands, Pakistan, Belgium, and Puerto Rico 

= Gained beverages market share in Turkey, Brazil, South Korea, Thailand, Pakistan, and Saudi Arabia, 
reinforcing our strategy to win in the marketplace 


= Elevated our global presence and reach across both developed and developing and emerging markets 
within the at-home, away-from-home, and online channels 


To evaluate performance in a manner consistent with how management evaluates our performance results and trends, the Compensation Committee 
applies certain Business Performance metrics that are measured on a non-GAAP basis as compensation performance measures to both long-term and 
annual incentive awards. Please refer to Appendix A to this Proxy Statement for a description and reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures 
relative to reported GAAP financial measures, and to pages 46-51 and 53 of PepsiCo’s 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
December 30, 2023 for a more detailed description of the items excluded from these measures. 


Refers to Core Constant Currency Net Income attributable to PepsiCo growth. 


52 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Executive Compensation 


Stronger 


Expanded the depth and breadth of our product portfolio in both beverages and convenient foods 
to capture evolving preferences of our consumers across a broad spectrum of occasions from 
make-your-own to ready-to-drink beverages, and from snacks and mini-meals to meals, spanning 


breakfast through dinner 


Achieved profitable growth internationally by taking actions 
international presence, deliver m 


to further build and expand our 


ore flavor and texture combinations that address local preferences, 


and adapt our price pack a 


Advanced our long-term ¢ 
across our value chain whi 


ost transformation 


rchitectures to offer consumers more value and convenience 
roadmap that focuses on driving operational excellence 


e scaling advantaged capabilities, including revamping our North America 


supply chain 
Sharpened our holistic cos 
increased automation with 
delivery of more 


t management initiatives through 
in our plants, an 


of infrastructure for curren 


Rolled out learning solutions to support career advancemen 
Instituted a systematic approach 


d waste reduction a 
than $1 billion of productivity savings in 2023 
Accelerated the implementation of our digital strategy includi 
t and future digital business priori 
Announced a collaboration with 
shape responsible Al standards. Our goal is to become the g 
Al applications and responsible A 
practice throughout the industry 


the Stanford Institute for Hum 


and gain insights that advance research, e 


ng advancing th 
ties 


obal corporate 


invest in improving facility conditions 


the expansion of Global Business Services, 
cross our value chain, supporting the 


e building and automation 


an-Centered Artificial Intelligence to 


eader in industrialized 
ducation, policy, and 


t for our associa 


tes across all markets 


to assess facility condition assessments with a centralized budget to 


Better 


Placed pep+ at the center of virtually everything we do. PepsiCo associates around the world embraced 


pep+ and integrated it into their daily work by driving changes in our opera 


workforce, across our value chain, and in our communities 


Continued to spread regenerative agriculture practices that restore the earth and sustainably source 
our key ingredients. We formed a groundbreaking long-term partnership with Walmart to jointly scale 


2+ million regenerative agriculture acres across our shared supply chain 
million to a multi-year, strategic partnership with three of the most well-resp 
organizations — Practical Farmers of lowa, Soil and Water Outcomes Fund, an 


tions, our culture, our 


s. We also committed $216 


ected farmer-facing 
d the Illinois Corn Growers 


Association to drive adoption of regenerative agriculture practices across the United States 


Continued to work against decoupling business growth and greenhouse 
in our supply chain, including new electric veh 


Increased use of sustainable packaging and he 


icle deployments across 
ped drive a circular economy for plastics, including 


gas emissions with investments 
orth America 


launching 100% recycled polyethylene terephthalate (“rPET”) carbonated soft drinks in all sectors’ 


beverage portfolios, with 31 markets having at 
Advanced our water agenda progress, accelera 
sourcing the online PepsiCo Water Academy th 
improve the overall health of stressed wa 
Advanced sodium reduction efforts with renova 
the globe, including Lay’s Classic, Doritos 


Adobadas in Mexico, and Walkers in the U.K. 


Facilitated important progress toward our diversity, equity, and inclusion goals by improving diversity 
of representation at the managerial level, maintaining pay equity, and developing inclusive leaders. We 


achieved 45% women in management ro 


least one product with 100% rPET 

ting water stewardship across the industry by open 
rough Coursera and launching innovative programs to 
tersheds in areas such as India and Mexico 

tions of our largest brands and stock keeping units across 
Nacho Cheese, and Cheetos Crunchy in the U.S., Sabritas 


es globally. In the U.S., we achieved 9.2% Black managerial 


representation and 10.3% Hispanic managerial representation. In 2020, we announced our aspirational 
representation goals to increase the U.S. Black and Hispanic managerial population to 10% by 2025 
to mirror the workforce availability of the communities where we work. We remain on track to meet this 


goal with respect 


Hispanic managerial representation to mirror workforce availability 


Continued to progress our efforts to expand opportunity in building a more inclusive supply chain, 
including investing in diverse-owned enterprises 


to U.S. Black managerial representation, and we will strive to maintain our U.S. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 53 


Executive Compensation 


Chairman and CEO Pay Decisions 


As disclosed in the 2023 Proxy Statement, in recognition of Mr. Laguarta’s 2022 strong achievements and to ensure appropriate 
market pay competitiveness, the Board of Directors approved a 4.6% increase to his base salary effective February 2023. To 


further recognize Mr. Laguarta’s sustained performance an 


d leadership since becoming CEO in 2018 while continuing to 


reinforce a strong pay-for-performance philosophy by ensuring the majority of compensation remains performance-based, 
the Board approved an annual salary of $1,775,000 for 2024, a 4.4% increase over 2023, a 2023 annual cash incentive of 


$6,750,000, and a 2024 LT| award with a grant date value of 


$16,675,000. The actual payout Mr. Laguarta will realize on his 2024 


LT| award will depend upon achievement of Core Constant Currency EPS Growth, Organic Revenue Growth, and Relative 


TSR Performance targets established by the Compensation 


Committee for the 2024-2026 performance period. Other than 


Mr. Laguarta’s salary, the entirety of his total direct compen 


Strong Compensation Governance 


sation opportunity is performance-based. 


The Compensation Committee oversees the executive compensation programs and evaluates the programs against 


competitive practices, legal and regulatory developments, 


and corporate governance trends. The Compensation Committee 


has incorporated the following market-leading governance features into our programs. 


What We Do 


© Stringent clawback provisions: PepsiCo has robus 
clawback provisions, providing the right to cancel and 


What We Don’t Do 


it @ No employment agreements: None of our 
executive officers have an employment agreement, 


recoup granted, earned, and vested awards, wholly or partly, separation, or cash change in control agreement 


with a look-back period in certain circumstances such as 
an act of gross misconduct. Clawback provisions apply to 


annual incentive, LTI, executive deferral programs, and non- 


qualified defined benefit pension programs 


© Double trigger vesting: LT| awards provide for 
accelerated vesting only if an executive is involuntarily 
terminated without cause or resigns for good reason with 
two years of a change in control or ifthe awards are not 
assumed by the acquirer 


© Responsible share usage: Share utilization remains 
below our peer group median due to our responsible usa 
of shares under the LTI Plan 


© Rigorous stock ownership requirements: Executi 
officers are required to own PepsiCo stock worth two to 


eight times their base salary (depending on position), with 


holding requirements extending for 12 months beyond 
employment with PepsiCo 


© Challenging incentive targets: Targets for incentive 
awards are set at the beginning of the performance period 
taking into consideration our business strategy, operating 
goals, and external guidance 


© Risk mitigation: Our compensation programs include 
balanced performance metrics, clawback provisions, and an 


oversight process to identify risk 


54 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


@ No supplemental executive retirement plans: 
We do not have any supplemental executive retirement 
plans, as our NEOs participate in the same pension 
programs as other similarly situated employees 


© No tax gross-ups: We do not provide tax 
gross-ups on perks or benefits except in the case of 
standard expatriate tax equalization benefits available to 
all similarly situated employees 


in 


© No hedging and pledging: Under our Insider 
Trading Policy, executive officers are prohibited from 
oe hedging and pledging Company stock 


© No resetting of financial targets: We do 
not reset internal incentive goals used to determine 
performance-based award payouts for executive 
officers once established at the beginning of the 
performance period 


ve 


© No repricing: We do not reprice stock option 
awards and our plans expressly forbid exchanging 
underwater options for cash 


© No cash severance above cap without seeking 
shareholder ratification: We do not enter into new 
arrangements with executive officers that would pay 
cash severance benefits in excess of 2.99 times the 

sum of an executive officer's base salary plus annual 
incentive, without seeking shareholder ratification 


Executive Compensation 


Engagement with Our Shareholders 


PepsiCo has a longstanding practice of regularly engaging with shareholders year-round. Every year, during the two-month 
period before the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, we generally contact our 75 largest shareholders, who represented 
approximately 49% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock in 2023, offering to discuss a broad range of topics, including 
executive compensation. Subsequent to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, we continue our outreach efforts to develop a 
better understanding of the feedback received from shareholders and issues important to our shareholders. 


Our Compensation Committee considered shareholder feedback in its annual review of program components, targets, 
and payouts to maintain awareness of emerging executive compensation practices, ensure the continued strength of 
our pay-for-performance alignment, and sustain strong shareholder support. 


a 
89% 


At our 2023 Annual Meeting, shareholders again showed 
support for our executive compensation programs with 
89% of the votes cast approving our advisory resolution. 


The Compensation Committee decided to maintain 
the core construct of our executive compensation 
programs for 2023, taking into account support 
demonstrated by our shareholders on our advisory 
resolution, feedback received during individual 
engagement with shareholders, and the significant 
changes made to our programs effective with the 2020 
performance year. 


Components of Our Executive Compensation Program 


Primary components of our executive compensation programs, summarized below, ensure that pay is directly linked to the 


creation of sustainable long-term shareholder value. 


Base Salar 


Objective: 

+ Provide market-competitive fixed pay reflective of 
an executive officer's role, responsibilities, and 
individual performance in order to attract and 
retain top talent 

+ Ensure appropriate balance between internal pay 
equity and external market practice for executives 
with a comparable scope of responsibilities 

Performance Metrics: 

+ Subject to annual adjustment based on market 
data, internal equity, job responsibilities, and 
individual performance 

+ Increases not automatic or guaranteed 

Terms: 

+ Paid per local practice 


Long-Term Incentive 


Objective: 

+ Align executive officers' rewards with returns delivered to 
PepsiCo's shareholders via sustained financial results and 
shareholder returns 

+ Incentivize achievement of long-term value creation through stock 
performance objectives and critical financial and operating performance 
objectives over a three-year period 

Performance Metrics: 

+ Performance measures linked to three-year goals (for 2023-2025, measures 
were Core Constant Currency EPS Growth, Organic Revenue Growth, and TSR 
relative to proxy peers) 

Terms: 

+ Annual awards are granted on or around March 1 

+ Awards generally vest after three years if the executive is still employed by the 
Company, or upon retirement if retirement eligible, and always subject to the 
achievement of performance criteria, capped at 200% of target 


Annual Incentive 


Objective: 

+ Drive Company and business unit performance, 

including revenue growth, year-over-year market 

share change, profitability, and free cash flow 

Deliver individual performance against specific 

business imperatives 

Performance Metrics: 

+ Performance measures linked to Company-wide 

performance or business unit performance 

depending on the NEO's position and scope of 

responsibilities 

Individual performance tied to PepsiCo's strategic 

imperatives within the scope of the executive 

officer's responsibilities 

Terms: 

+ Paid in cash in the 1st quarter of the year following 
the performance period 

+ Must be employed by the Company as of the end 
of the fiscal year to be eligible for a payout, unless 
retirement eligible, capped at 200% of target for 
the Chairman and CEO and 300% of target for all 
other NEOs 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 55 


Executive Compensation 


2023 Target Pay Mix for Named Executive Officers 


To align pay levels for NEOs with the Company's performance, our pay mix places the greatest emphasis on performance- 
based incentives. 


CHAIRMAN AND CEO TARGET PAY MIX NEO AVERAGE TARGET PAY MIX 
(EXCLUDING CHAIRMAN AND CEO) 


Annual /n, 
Cane, 

U7 
e 


17% 


92% 
Performance- 
Based 
Compensation 


Performance- 


Based 
Compensation 


Base Salary 


The Compensation Committee annually reviews the salaries of our NEOs, as annual salary increases are not automatic 
or guaranteed. 


The base salaries paid to our NEOs in fiscal year 2023 are presented in the 2023 Summary Compensation Table on page 68 of 
this Proxy Statement. The base salary increase that Mr. Caulfield received in 2023 was in connection with his promotion to EVP 
and CFO, PepsiCo, effective November 30, 2023 following Mr. Johnston's retirement from the Company. 


Base Salary as Base Salary as 

of 2022 Fiscal of 2023 Fiscal 
Year-End Year-End Percentage 
Name ($000) ($000) Increase 
Ramon L. Laguarta 1,625 1,700 5% 
Jamie Caulfield 480 700 46% 
Steven Williams 800 850 6% 
Kirk Tanner 800 850 6% 
Silviu Popovici 750 800 7% 
Hugh F. Johnston 1,000 1,000 0% 


In the first quarter of 2024, Mr. Williams’ base salary was increased to $900,000 to maintain competitiveness with external peers. 


2023 Annual Incentive Award 


We provide annual cash incentive opportunities to our NEOs under the PepsiCo, Inc. Executive Incentive Compensation Plan 
("EICP”). Awards granted under the EICP are designed to drive Company, business unit, and individual performance. 


When determining the actual annual incentive award payable to each executive officer, the Compensation Committee 
considers both business and individual performance. The graphic below illustrates the calculation of the annual incentive 
award for each NEO, apart from the Chairman and CEO, whose compensation is discussed earlier. 


Target 


aia Bucinecs Individual Anna 
Base Salary x Incentive x f Performance =|, eee 
Opportunity Performance Multiplier ncentive Awar 
(% of Salary) 


56 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Executive Compensation 


Business Performance Metrics. Our annual incentive program applies metrics that executives directly influence to 
ensure a link between annual performance and actual incentive payments. Compensation performance measures are 
selected taking our strategy and how shareholders evaluate the success of our business into consideration to drive effective 
execution and delivery of our performance goals. The Compensation Committee may make adjustments from time to 

time to facilitate year-over-year comparability of historical business performance and trends, which is consistent with how 
management evaluates performance results. The 2023 performance metrics which make up the Business Performance 
component of the annual incentive award are listed in the table below for each NEO: 


Ramon L. Jamie Steven Kirk Silviu Hugh F. 
Laguarta Caulfield Williams Tanner Popovici Johnston 
PepsiCo PepsiCo" PFNA® PBNA Europe PepsiCo 
Organic Revenue Growth e e e e @ e 
Free Cash Flow Excluding Certain Items e e e @ e e 
Core Constant Currency EPS Growth cc) 
Relative Competitive Performance e e @ e e e 
Core Constant Currency Net Income Growth” CY e e 


Core Constant Currency Operating Profit Growth e e e e 


) Annual incentive award for Mr. Caulfield was based on Frito-Lay North America (“FLNA") and Quaker Foods North America (‘QFNA") compensation 
performance measures prior to his promotion to EVP and CFO, PepsiCo on November 30, 2023. 


® — Annual incentive award for Mr. Williams is based on FLNA and QFNA compensation performance measures. 


To determine Mr. Laguarta’s annual incentive, the Board of Directors reviews the above Business Performance metrics against 
predetermined targets as previously discussed in the “Chairman and CEO Performance Summary" section of this Proxy 
Statement. Business Performance for all other NEOs is calculated using a weighting established at the beginning of the 
performance period of 30% Organic Revenue Growth, 30% Core Constant Currency Net Income Growth!”/Core Constant 
Currency Operating Profit Growth, 30% Relative Competitive Performance, and 10% Free Cash Flow Excluding Certain Items, 
with bonus scores capped at target if certain performance targets are not achieved. 


Business Results. In determining annual incentive awards for 2023, the Compensation Committee assessed actual Company 
performance against the pre-established performance targets noted in the table below. Performance targets are set taking 
external guidance into consideration, the likelihood of achievement based on industry and macro trends, and expected 
performance relative to peers. Performance targets are designed to be rigorous, requiring commitment from our NEOs to 
ensure they deliver on our performance goals communicated to shareholders. 


Performance Metrics®! Performance Targets Actual Results 
Organic Revenue Growth 6.0% 9.5% 
Free Cash Flow Excluding Certain Items $7.9 billion $9.1 billion 
Core Constant Currency EPS Growth 8% 14% 
Core Constant Currency Net Income Growth"! 8% 14% 


Business unit performance targets and Relative Competitive Performance expectations, which were intended to be 
challenging, are not disclosed because such disclosure would result in competitive harm to the Company. These targets were 
set at levels necessary to deliver our consolidated performance goals and generate value for shareholders. 


In determining final annual incentive award payouts, the Compensation Committee considers actual business results relative 
to the performance targets outlined in the previous table, in addition to other quantitative and qualitative factors. The 
Compensation Committee engages in a robust and rigorous review of any exclusions made from results of operations for 
compensation purposes. If exercised, these adjustments may be positive or negative to ensure that executives are neither 
rewarded nor penalized for extraordinary factors outside of their control. 


“1 Refers to Core Constant Currency Net Income attributable to PepsiCo growth. 


1 Please refer to Appendix A to this Proxy Statement for a description and reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures relative to reported GAAP 
financial measures, and to pages 46-51 and 53 of PepsiCo’s 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023 for a more 
detailed description of the items excluded from these measures. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 57 


Executive Compensation 


Relative Competitive Performance (“RCP”). In addition to the financial performance measures outlined above, RCP is 
also used to determine annual incentive award payouts. RCP is a measure that assesses year-over-year market share change in 
applicable food and beverage categories such as savory, liquid refreshment beverages, cereals, and/or modern dairy, based on 
market share data reported by independent market research leaders and our analysis of other relevant factors, including data 
availability, data quality, strategic importance to a category, consumer perception, and brand equity. 


Individual Performance Metrics. The Compensation Committee evaluates individual performance based on objectives 
related to an individual's contribution to PepsiCo’s strategic business imperatives, such as improving performance efficiencies, 
driving innovation, increasing customer satisfaction, enhancing environmental sustainability, and managing and developing 
a diverse and talented workforce. The strategic business imperatives are intended to be challenging. They can be both 
quantitative and qualitative and vary for each executive officer. 


As pep-+ is integrated into our core business strategy, executive officers are held accountable for strategic imperatives which 
drive action and progress towards our long-term sustainability goals. As such, all executive officers have ESG goals incorporated 
into their individual performance objectives, generally tailored to the scope of their respective responsibilities. 


The Compensation Committee thoroughly reviews all accomplishments for the performance year, evaluating each executive 
officer's progress towards the achievement of our broader sustainability goals as described in PepsiCo's ESG Summary, 
accessible through www.pepsico.com. Holistic accomplishments pertaining to each stage of our value chain are considered 
including, but not limited to: agriculture, climate, water, packaging, people, expanded portfolio offerings, and/or positive 
brands for the planet and people. 


These outcomes are taken into consideration by the Compensation Committee, in conjunction with the executive officer's 
broader contributions to PepsiCo’s business imperatives, translating into their Individual Performance Multiplier, which ranges 
from 0% to 150% to allow for enhanced differentiation in payouts. 


58 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Executive Compensation 


NEO Performance Summary. |n determining annual incentive awards for 2023, the Compensation Committee considered 
the following accomplishments by NEOs, other than the Chairman and CEO, who is discussed earlier. 


NEO Performance 2023 Compensation ($000) 


Jamie Caulfield = Supported delivery of FINA and QFNA top- and bottom-line 
EVP and CFO, results, driving cost agenda to offset inflationary pressures, esac 
PepsiCo continuing to hold accountability for sustained performance of sud bi = 
business units 
# Enabled and led large scale modernization, setting the $1,261 
hee: $499 $612 
foundation for digital transformation and implementation of fic — caus | 
harmonized business processes in FLNA, including disciplined Base 2023 2023 
capital allocation and updating information technology ci i a 
systems to allow better data-driven decision making 
Steven Williams = Delivered Organic Revenue Growth"! of 9% and 1% for FLNA Percent of 
CEO, PFNA and OFNA, respectively, and Core Constant Currency Operating Target: 160% 
Profit Growth™ of 9% and 3% for FLNA and QFNA, respectively 
= Continued to offer more choices to meet changing needs and seen 
preferences of consumers in an evolving marketplace $2,014 
= Maintained focus on consumer-centric innovation within $842 || 
convenient foods while also targeting new occasions = a. 
= Deployed over 700 electric delivery vehicles to lower emissions ciet ae: 
and advance our pep+ goals Award 
Kirk Tanner = Delivered Organic Revenue Growth"! of 7% and Core Constant 
CEO, PBNA Currency Operating Profit Growth" of 11% for PBNA Percent of 
= Enabled a third consecutive year of improvement in Core Target: 113% 
Operating Margin, reflecting commitment to deliver $4,000 
profitable growth : 
= Began transitioning our multipacks from plastic rings to $1,430 


recyclable paperboard designs in the U.S. and Canada to drive $842 a 

toward our pep+ goal of reducing virgin plastic from non- fees ee ros 

renewable sources per serving Salary Annual Incentive LTl Award 
= Invested further in advancing positive choices across our en 

portfolio with our zero sugar variants 


Silviu Popovici = Continued to deliver Organic Revenue Growth, remaining 
CEO, Europe resilient in a volatile economy and precarious 
geopolitical environment 
= Gained savory snack share in Belgium and Netherlands, as well 


Percent of 
Target: 205% 


as beverage share in Turkey casa. “eo 
= Supported a £58 million investment in the Leicester, United Ses 

Kingdom factory to help meet increased demand for our =a | | 

snacks as well as delivering on our pep+ ambitions including Base 2023 2023 

reducing greenhouse gas emission as well as upgrading Salary Annual Incentive LT! Award 


ward 
workplace facilities and building a talent pipeline i 


Hugh F. Johnston = Enabled PepsiCo to increase its dividend for the 51st 


Former Vice consecutive year in 2023, returning $77 billion in cash to Bae sik $7,000 
Chairman, EVP and shareholders through $6.7 billion of dividends and $1 billion in ul abe 
CFO, PepsiCo share repurchases, prioritizing investor returns 
= Modernized and harmonized our information technology $2,599 
systems across certain businesses and countries $919 J 
= Continued managing the net proceeds of the second Green = i 
Bond to eligible projects supporting sustainable plastics and Base 2023 2023 
packaging, decarbonization of our operations and supply iia eee 1 


chain, water replenishment, and regenerative agriculture 


© Please refer to Appendix A to this Proxy Statement for a description and reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures relative to reported GAAP 
financial measures, and to pages 46-51 and 53 of PepsiCo’s 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023 for a more 
detailed description of the items excluded from these measures. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 59 


Executive Compensation 


Long-Term Incentive Awards 


PepsiCo's LTI program is 100% performance-based. The design helps ensure an appropriate level of focus on successfully 
attaining critical performance goals and sustained appreciation in shareholder value relative to our peers. 


The vesting of LTI awards is 100% performance-based, subject to the achievement of ambitious three-year financial targets 
aligned with the terms and conditions of PepsiCo’s LTI program. The three-year cliff vesting provision also serves as a critical 
retention tool in an environment of competition for key talent. 


66% 34% 
Awards granted include two distinct Performance Stock Units Long-Term Cash 
components: PSUs and LTC awards. Based on operating metrics: Based on TSR 
Sayan vec OS: OIE AWE = Core Constant Currency relative to proxy 
IEE) EPS Growth peer group 
based on their role. = Organic Revenue Growth 
g 


Performance Stock Units 


The PSUs incentivize our executive officers to focus on critical performance objectives that we believe translate to sustainable 
shareholder returns over the long term. The PSUs pay out in PepsiCo shares, plus dividends accrued over the vesting period on 
earned shares. 


Earnings Per Share Growth 

3-year average of annual Core Constant Currency EPS Growth rates 

A metric followed by shareholders that incorporates key elements of financial success, including top-line growth 
in revenue, expense control, the effectiveness of investments made in the business over time, and bottom- 


G) line profitability. 
Organic Revenue Growth 


0, 
Paoe 3-year average of annual Organic Revenue Growth rates 
gS A metric followed by shareholders that focuses on accelerated top-line growth and enhanced shareholder returns. 


50% 
weighting 


Payout 0 - 200% of Target 


Long-Term Cash Award 


The LTC award focuses on relative TSR performance, strengthening alignment with long-term shareholder value creation. The 
LTC award is denominated and pays out in cash, reflecting PepsiCo’s responsible use of shares under our LTI program. 


Relative TSR Performance 
TSR performance relative to our proxy peer group set at the time of grant over a 3-year performance period. 


PepsiCo’s 3-year Threshold Target Max 
100% TSR ranking: 25%ile Median 100%ile 
weighting Lo oo 
Payout: 50% 100% 200% 
Above target payout requires us to deliver positive 3-year TSR. Linear interpolation is used when ranking falls between 


percentages shown. 


Payout 0 - 200% of Target 


60 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Executive Compensation 


Long-Term Incentive Award Payouts 


2021 PSU Payout 
As a result of strong three-year performance, the 2021 PSUs paid out at 200% of target. 


3-YEAR AVERAGE OF ANNUAL CORE CONSTANT 3-YEAR AVERAGE OF ANNUAL ORGANIC REVENUE 
CURRENCY EPS GROWTH"®! GROWTH"®! 
Threshold Target Max Threshold Target Max 
5.0% 7.0% 10.3% 3.1% 4.3% 5.5% 
Actual Result: Actual Result: 
Ea oe eee 
40% 100% 200% 20% 100% 200% 
Payout Payout Payout Payout Payout Payout 

= PepsiCo’s three-year (2021-2023) average Core Constant = PepsiCo's three-year (2021-2023) average Organic 

Currency EPS Growth"? compensation performance Revenue Growth"? compensation performance measure 

measure of 12.2% was above the maximum of 10.3% set by of 11.1% was above the maximum of 5.5% set by the 

the Compensation Committee in 2021 Compensation Committee in 2021 

PSUs PSUs Payout 

Name Granted Earned of Target 
Ramon L. Laguarta 66,629 133,258 200 % 
Jamie Caulfield” 0 0 N/A 
Steven Williams 15,086 30,172 200 % 
Kirk Tanner?) 14,701 29,402 200% 
Silviu Popovici 15,086 30,172 200 % 
Hugh F. Johnston 35,200 70,400 200 % 


Mr. Caulfield was not eligible for any PSUs granted in 2021 as he was not an executive officer at the time. 
Mr. Tanner's 2021 PSU award was pro-rated as a result of his retirement on February 2, 2024. 


2021 Long-Term Cash Award Payout 


The 2021 LTC award paid out at 148% of target in light of our total return to shareholders, including dividends, outperforming 
the median of our proxy peer group over the three-year performance period. 


3-YEAR RELATIVE TSR PERCENTILE VS. PROXY PEER GROUP 


Threshold Target Max 
Pe ig aor “TaRwie) mile = Based on PepsiCo's TSR of 24.4% for the three-year performance 
=z oa period ended on December 31, 2023, PepsiCo ranked at the 74th 
50% 100% 200% percentile relative to our proxy peer group 
Payout Payout Payout 

LTC Granted LTC Earned Payout 

Name ($000) ($000) of Target 
Ramon L. Laguarta 4,505 6,667 148% 
Jamie Caulfield” 0 0 N/A 
Steven Williams 1,020 1,510 148 % 
Kirk Tanner?) 994 1,471 148% 
Silviu Popovici 1,020 1,510 148% 
Hugh F. Johnston 2,380 3,522 148% 


Mr. Caulfield was not eligible for any LTC award granted in 2021 as he was not an executive officer at the time. 
® Mr. Tanner's 2021 LTC award was pro-rated as a result of his retirement on February 2, 2024. 


Special Long-Term Incentive Awards 
Special PSU Award Grants 


No special PSU awards were granted to NEOs in 2023, and no special PSU awards remain outstanding for our NEOs. 


0) Please refer to Appendix A to this Proxy Statement for a description and reconciliation of these non-GAAP compensation performance measures relative 
to reported GAAP financial measures, and to pages 46-51 and 53 of PepsiCo’s 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 
2023 for a more detailed description of the items excluded from these measures. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 61 


Executive Compensation 


Retirement and Benefit Programs 


Retirement and Post-Retiree Medical 


Our NEOs participate in the same retirement programs 
as other similarly situated employees and receive no 
enhancements in determining their benefits versus 
other employees 


PepsiCo maintains defined benefit pension plans for 
the majority of U.S. salaried employees hired before 
January 1, 2011 and defined contribution plans for U.S. 
salaried employees hired in 2011 or later 


A separate retirement plan is also maintained for 
certain employees working outside the U.S. who are 
unable to participate in their home country plans 


Effective December 31, 2025, accruals for salaried 
employees under the defined benefit pension plans in 
which NEOs participate will be frozen and employees 
will participate in the defined contribution plans going 
forward with details described in the “2023 Retirement 
Benefits” section beginning on page 73 


Our NEOs are also eligible for retiree medical 
coverage on the same terms as other similarly 
situated employees 


No NEOs were provided enhanced coverage, such as 
executive life insurance 


Perquisites 


Consistent with our pay-for-performance philosophy, 
we limit executive perquisites to a Company car 
allowance, an annual physical, and personal use of 
Company aircraft 


Certain executive officers may also be required to use 
Company ground transportation 


Based on an independent security study, the 
Compensation Committee generally requires the CEO 
to use Company aircraft to enhance personal safety 
and to increase time available for business purposes 


Certain exceptions allow the use of commercial 
aviation by the CEO provided that the PepsiCo Global 
Security Team has assessed the risk and trip itinerary in 
advance, establishing a travel security protocol 


Executives are fully responsible for their personal 
income tax liability associated with personal use of 
Company aircraft 


A select few executive officers who are permitted to use 
Company aircraft, other than the CEO, must reimburse 
PepsiCo for the full variable operating cost of personal 
flights in excess of a limited number of hours per year as 
established by the Compensation Committee 


Personal use of Company aircraft above a predetermined 
hour threshold for executive officers other than the CEO 
must be approved by the CEO on a case-by-case basis 


62 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Health and Mobility Benefits 


Executive officers receive the same healthcare 
benefits as other similarly situated employees 


U.S.-based medical benefits are generally the same 
for all participants in the Company's healthcare 
program; however, our executive officers are required 
to pay two to three times as much as non-executive 
employees for their coverage 


International medical benefit plans vary, but executives 
typically receive the benefits offered in the relevant 
broad-based program 


PepsiCo’s global mobility program facilitates the 
assignment of global talent to positions in other 
countries by minimizing any financial detriment 
or gain to the employee from an international 
assignment 


Executive officers who relocate are supported under 
the mobility program available to all PepsiCo salaried 
employees, eligible for reimbursement of relocation 
expenses, such as household goods shipment and 
applicable taxes associated with moving 


Executive Income Deferral 


Under the PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral 
Program (the “EIDP”), eligible US-based executives 
can elect to defer up to 75% of their base salary and 
up to 100% of their annual cash incentive awards into 
phantom investment funds on a tax-deferred basis 


Executives may elect to have their deferral accounts 
notionally invested in market-based funds, including 
the PepsiCo Common Stock Fund 


The EIDP does not guarantee a rate of return, does 
not match deferrals, and none of the funds provide 
“above market” earnings 


The EIDP is a non-qualified and unfunded program 
in which account balances are unsecured and at-risk, 
with its material features described in the “2023 Non- 
Qualified Deferred Compensation” section beginning 
on page 77 


Peer Group 


Executive Compensation 


The Compensation Committee assesses the composition of the proxy peer group annually. 


Comparable size (based on revenue and market capitalization) 
Strong consumer brands 


How the Compensation ® Innovative culture 
Peer Group is Selected = PepsiCo’s competitors for executive talent 
= Primary focus on business-to-consumer model 
= Significant international operations 
= To help evaluate whether executive officer pay levels are aligned with Company performance 
. on a relative basis 
How Compensation 


Peer Group is Used 


To calculate our relative TSR performance over a three-year performance period and 
determine payout of the LTC award 


To assess competitiveness of executive compensation plan design and benefit prevalence 


PEPSICO 2023 COMPENSATION PEER GROUP 


3M Company 


Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV 


The Coca-Cola Company 


Colgate-Palmolive Company 


Danone S.A. 
FedEx Corporation 
General Mills, Inc. 


PEPSICO VS. 2023 PEER GROUP 


0 


Net Revenue* 


Market Capitalization** 


Johnson & Johnson The Procter & Gamble Company 
The Kraft Heinz Company Starbucks Corporation 
McDonald's Corporation Unilever PLC 
Mondeléz International, Inc. United Parcel Service, Inc. 
Nestlé S.A. Verizon Communications Inc. 
NIKE, Inc. Walmart Inc. 
Pfizer Inc. The Walt Disney Company 

20 40 60 80 100 

——— 


86¢ Percentile 


76" Percentile 


eo = PepsiCo’s position 


* — Based on the four fiscal quarters ended prior to December 30, 2023 and publicly available as of March 1, 2024 


** Based on 2023 year-end 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 63 


Executive Compensation 


Governance Features of Our Executive Compensation Programs 


We believe that PepsiCo’s compensation programs should ensure that our executives remain accountable for business 
results and take responsibility for the assets of the business and its employees. Consistent with this objective, our Board has 
incorporated strong governance features into our executive compensation programs. 


Risk Mitigation 


PepsiCo's executive compensation programs include features intended to discourage employees from taking unnecessary and 
excessive risks that could threaten the financial health and viability of the Company. 


Balanced 
Performance Metrics 


The annual incentive 
program utilizes balanced 
financial measures 
consisting of top-line 
metrics (such as organic 
revenue), bottom-line 
metrics (such as operating 
profit), and metrics 
designed to enhance 
capital management (such 
as cash flow). 


[3 


Accountability for Prior 
Business Unit Results 


All or a portion of the 
annual incentive award for 
any executive officer who 
assumes a new leadership 
position in a different 
business unit is generally 
determined based on the 
prior business unit’s results 
to hold the executive 
officer accountable for 
sustained performance. 


Si 


Emphasis on Long-Term 
Shareholder Value Creation 


LTl awards are the most 
significant element of 
executive officer pay 
and focus executives 
on creating long-term 
shareholder value, 
measured in terms of 
delivering exceptional 
long-term performance 
results and stock price 
performance relative to a 


t$) 


Stringent Clawback 
Provisions 


Under PepsiCo’s programs, 
the Company has the 
right to cancel and recoup 
awards and gains from 

an executive in certain 
circumstances, such as an 
act of gross misconduct. 
Recovery may be initiated 
even if there was no 
misconduct or failure of 
oversight on the part of an 


peer group. executive. 


Stock Ownership Requirements 


Under PepsiCo’s stock ownership guidelines, executive officers are required to own shares of PepsiCo Common Stock equal in 
value to a specified multiple of their annual base salary, as set forth below: 


CEO & @ © @ Se © @ ‘8x annual salary 
CFO and Business Unit CEOs @ @ & (4x) annual salary 


All Other Executive Officers on) (2x) annual salary 


Shares of PepsiCo Common Stock or equivalents held by the executive officer (or immediate family members) in a 401(k) plan, 
in a deferred compensation account, or in a trust for the benefit of immediate family members count towards satisfying the 

requirement. Unexercised stock options and unvested PSUs and Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs”) granted under the LT! Plan do 
not count towards satisfying the applicable stock ownership requirement. 


Executive officers have five years from the date they first become subject to a particular level of stock ownership to meet the 
stock ownership requirement. All of PepsiCo's executive officers have met or are on track to meet their ownership requirements 
within the five-year period. 


Executive officers who terminate or retire from PepsiCo are required to continue to hold 100% of the shares needed to meet the 
applicable level of stock ownership until at least six months after termination or retirement and to continue to hold at least 50% of 
the shares needed to meet the applicable level of stock ownership until at least twelve months after termination or retirement. 


Share Retention Policy 


To ensure that our executive officers exhibit a strong commitment to PepsiCo stock ownership, the Board adopted a Share 
Retention Policy. The policy limits the sale proceeds that an executive officer may receive in cash upon exercise of stock options 
during each calendar year to 20% of the aggregate value of all of the executive officer's in-the-money vested stock options. 


64 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Executive Compensation 


Any sale proceeds in excess of this 20% limit must be held in shares of PepsiCo Common Stock for at least one year after the 
date of exercise. In addition, executive officers are required to hold at least 50% of the shares, net of applicable tax withholding, 
received upon the vesting and payout of PSUs in furtherance of PepsiCo's stock ownership guidelines. 


Executive officers who maintain the required level of stock ownership are exempt from the Share Retention Policy. 


No Employment Contracts 


None of our NEOs have an employment contract or separation agreement, and we do not maintain formal programs or policies 
that guarantee cash severance or continued access to health and welfare benefits in the event of an involuntary termination 

of employment. Consistent with our approach of rewarding performance, employment is not guaranteed, and either the 
Company or the NEO may terminate the employment relationship at any time. In some cases, the Compensation Committee 

or the Board may agree to provide separation payments and benefits to departing executives upon their termination. Such 
terminations are addressed on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration the nature of the termination and a variety of 
other factors. 


Cash Severance Policy 


The Compensation Committee adopted the PepsiCo, Inc. Executive Officer Cash Severance Policy under which the Company 
will seek shareholder ratification of any new employment, severance or separation agreement with an executive officer, 

or any new severance plan or policy covering an executive officer, that provides for “cash severance benefits” (as defined 

in such policy) exceeding 2.99 times the sum of the executive officer's base salary and target annual incentive award (or 
average of prior three years of actual annual incentive awards, if greater). Under this policy, “cash severance benefits” include 
cash payments such as those made in connection with the termination of an executive officer's employment or to secure 

an agreement with an executive officer to not compete with the Company. Certain payments are excluded from this policy, 
including those made in accordance with the terms of the shareholder-approved LT! Plan, settlements of claims asserted 
against the Company by an executive officer, payments for services provided following termination, and distributions made 
from the Company's benefit programs. 


Clawback Provisions 


Compliance with our Global Code of Conduct, as well as Acting with Integrity, one of the seven guiding behaviors of The PepsiCo 
Way, are fundamental to doing business the right way. To reinforce the importance of this, PepsiCo’s executive compensation 
programs have stringent clawback provisions which allow the Company to cancel outstanding awards from the EICP and LT| 
Plan, to enforce the repayment of gains from the exercise of any stock options granted under the terms of the LTI Plan and to 
recoup the value of awards, regardless of whether they are performance- or time-based, that have vested and/or paid out from 
the EICP and LTI Plan. 


Clawback provisions are triggered in the event an executive engages in behavior that may be detrimental to the Company, 
such as the breaching of non-competition, non-solicitation or non-disclosure clauses, or an act of gross misconduct. 


In addition, the Compensation Committee adopted the PepsiCo, Inc. Compensation Recovery Policy for Covered Executives, 
effective October 2, 2023, which requires recovery of incentive-based compensation erroneously received by current and 
former executive officers, in the event of an accounting adjustment to the Company's financial results, over the three years 
prior to an accounting restatement. This policy supplements the clawback provisions described above. In the case of erroneous 
payments, recovery is initiated even if there was no misconduct or failure of oversight on the part of an individual executive. 


Change in Control Provisions 


PepsiCo does not maintain formal policies for our NEOs that provide for predetermined cash severance, continued health and 
welfare benefits, pension service credit, tax gross-ups, or any other change in control benefits other than change in control 
protections under the shareholder-approved LT! Plan. 


The LTI Plan provides non-employee directors and all employees, including executive officers, change in control protection 
for their LTl awards. Outstanding unvested awards vest and performance-based awards are payable in accordance with 
their terms as if performance metrics have been achieved at the target performance level in the event that the participant is 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 65 


Executive Compensation 


terminated without cause or resigns for good reason within two years following a change in control of PepsiCo (i.e., “double 
trigger” vesting) or if the acquiring entity fails to assume or replace the awards. We utilize “double trigger” vesting to ensure 
management talent will be available to assist in the successful integration following a change in control and to align with 
prevailing governance practices. 


Prohibition on Hedging and Pledging 


Our Insider Trading Policy prohibits employees, including executive officers, from engaging in activities that are designed 

to hedge or offset any decrease in the market value of PepsiCo stock (including purchasing financial instruments such as 
prepaid variable forward contracts, collars, exchange funds or equity swaps, or engaging in short sales). In addition, employees, 
including executive officers, may not hold PepsiCo securities in a margin account or pledge PepsiCo stock or PepsiCo stock 
options as collateral for a loan or otherwise. 


Limited Trading Windows 


Executive officers can only transact in PepsiCo securities during approved trading windows after satisfying mandatory 
clearance requirements. 


Responsible Equity Grant Practices 


PepsiCo's equity grant practices ensure all grants are made on fixed pre-established grant dates and at exercise prices or grant 
prices equal to the “fair market value” of PepsiCo Common Stock on such dates. 


= Stock option, PSU, and RSU grants are awarded under our shareholder-approved LT] Plan at “fair market value,” defined as the 
average of the high and low stock prices rounded up to the nearest quarter on the date of grant. These formulas mitigate 
the impact of our stock price’s intra-day volatility when setting the grant price of equity awards. 


PepsiCo does not backdate, reprice, or grant stock options retroactively. Our shareholder-approved LTI Plan prohibits 
repricing of awards or exchanges of underwater options for cash or other securities without shareholder approval. 


Under our shareholder-approved LTI Plan, stock options, RSUs, PSUs, and LTC awards generally require a three-year minimum 
vesting period. 


= PepsiCo is responsible in the use of shares under our LTI Plan, with share utilization below our peer group median. 


Equity award grants to executive officers are approved by a subcommittee of the Compensation Committee consisting 
entirely of non-employee directors, as that term is defined in Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act. 


Tax Considerations 


Historically, the Compensation Committee has considered the impact of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code in 
establishing compensation for our executive officers, with a primary objective of supporting PepsiCo’s business needs and 
workforce strategy. 


Effective with the January 1, 2018 taxation year, the Section 162(m) performance-based exception is no longer applicable and 
the $1 million deduction limit applies to the CEO, CFO, and the top three other highest compensated executive officers in the 
year. The deduction limit also applies to all those who were subject to the limit in any prior year after 2016, and it continues to 
apply to compensation paid at any time, including after termination or retirement and after death. 


66 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Executive Compensation 


Our Decision-Making Process 


Compensation Committee 


The Compensation Committee oversees and evaluates PepsiCo’s executive compensation programs against 
competitive practices, regulatory developments, and corporate governance trends. 


JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG ca OCT DEC 


February Meeting March Meeting September Meeting November Meeting 


= Reviews Committee 
Charter, Committee's 
assessment results and 
work plan for the 


= Sets specific performance = Reports to the Board 
targets for executive officer regarding director 
incentive awards compensation and stock 
= Reviews compensation- ownership guidelines 


™ Certifies performance- 
based incentive payouts 

=™ Recommends CEO 
compensation to 


independent members related disclosures for m Establishes peer group following year 

of the Board without Proxy Statement companies used to m Reviews and approves 

management input benchmark Company executive compensation 
= Approves performance goals performance and executive policies, such as stock 

and other objectives of the officer compensation ownership and clawback 


Chairman and CEO m Reviews trends and provisions, as needed 
= Approves executive officer best practices in 

compensation based on executive compensation 

Company performance, 

market data, responsibilities, 

and other factors 


Compensation Committee meetings may occur on a more frequent basis in the event of ad hoc matters for discussion or approval. 


Independent Advisor PepsiCo Management 


The Compensation Committee has engaged FW Cook 
as its independent external advisor, and considers 


PepsiCo’s management team is responsible for providing 
input to the Compensation Committee with respect to 


analysis and advice from FW Cook when making 
compensation decisions 


Provides recommendations on Chairman and CEO 


compensation directly to the Compensation Committee 


Regularly reviews the Company's executive 
compensation programs, in cooperation with 
management, and advises the Committee of changes 
that may be made to better reflect evolving best 
practices and improve effectiveness 

Regularly reviews the Company's compensation 
philosophy, peer group, and target competitive 
positioning for reasonableness and appropriateness 


All services performed by FW Cook have been limited to 


executive and director compensation consulting 


compensation decisions for PepsiCo’s executive officers 
(other than the Chairman and CEO) 


Provides input regarding PepsiCo’s business strategy 
and performance 

Regularly reviews shareholder feedback which is taken 
into consideration when reevaluating and/or designing 
the Company's executive compensation programs 
The Chairman and CEO provides the Compensation 
Committee with a self-assessment based on 
achievement of the agreed-upon objectives and other 
leadership accomplishments 

The Chairman and CEO provides the Compensation 
Committee with performance evaluations and pay 
recommendations for other executive officers 


FW Cook is prohibited from undertaking any other work 
with PepsiCo management or employees and has direct 
access to Compensation Committee members without 
management involvement 

The Compensation Committee assessed FW Cook's 
independence under SEC regulations and Nasdaq 
listing standards, and concluded that there is no conflict 
of interest 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 67 


Executive Compensation 


2023 Summary Compensation Table 


The following table summarizes the compensation of the NEOs for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023 in accordance with 
SEC rules. We encourage you to also review a summary of the Chairman and CEO's performance and pay decisions beginning 
on page 52 for a description of how compensation is viewed by PepsiCo's Board. 


Non-Equity Incentive Plan 


Compensation (S$) Change in 

Pension 

Subtotal Total for Value and 

Subtotal for Annual Non-Qualified 

for Long- and Deferred 

Stock Annual Term Long-Term Compensation All Other 
Name and Salary Bonus Awards Payouts Payouts Payouts Earnings Compensation Total 
Principal Position Year” ($)2) ($) ($)®) ($) ($)®) ($y ($)”) ($)®) ($) 
RamonL.Laguarta 2023 1,688,462 10,230,075 6,750,000 6,667,400 13,417,400 7,746,199 824,076 33,906,212 
ileal 2022 1,644,712 9,404,937 6,320,000 6,164,200 12,484,200 4,251,779 602,600 28,388,228 
Evecutive Officer 2021 1,542,308 8,745,056 6,006,640 4,216,000 10,222,640 4,415,239 581,364 25,506,607 
Jamie Caulfield 2023 498,615 1,261,467 612,100 210540 822,640 638,757 25,770 3,347,249 
EVP and CFO 

Steven Williams 2023 842,308 2,640,069 2,013,690 1,509,600 3,523,290 2,791,721 89,341 9,986,729 
CEO, PFNA 2022 815,385 2,310,036 2,594,880 1,761,200 4,356,080 484,099 46,890 8,112,490 
2021 784,615 1,980,038 1,406,240 411,060 1,817,300 1,583,633 49,035 6,314,621 
Kirk Tanner 2023 842,308 2,640,069 1,430,410 1,471,068 2,901,478 1,474,557 89,650 7,948,062 
CEO, PBNA 2022 815,385 2,310,036 1,240,800 2,264,400 3,505,200 _ 17,885 6,748,506 
2021 — 800,000 1,980,038 2,535,000 1,328,040 3,863,040 1,589,710 57,918 8,390,706 
Silviu Popovici 2023 791,667 2,112,021 2,434,380 1,509,600 3,943,980 385,513 414,260 7,647,441 
CEO, Europe 2022 764,423 2,111,991 2,059,430 2,264,400 4,323,830 297,469 1,886,345 9,384,058 
2021 750,000 1,980,038 1,584,000 1,264,800 2,848,800 264,701 2,632,231 8,475,770 
HughF.Johnston 2023 919,231 4,620,078 2,598,750 3,522,400 6,121,150 3,952,559 160,870 15,773,888 
lg 2022 1,019,231 4,620,072 2,891,700 3,522,400 6,414,100 1,210,440 131,461 13,395,304 
EVP and CFO 2021 1,000,000 4,620,000 2,958,380 2,635,000 5,593,380 1,849,787 141,198. 13,204,365 


"Mr. Caulfield was not an NEO prior to 2023 and, as a result, only his 2023 compensation information is being disclosed in the Summary 


Compensation Table. 


® In 2022, the salary amounts reflect the actual base salary payments made to the NEOs during the fiscal year, which included a 53rd week. 


®) The amounts reported for stock awards represent the aggregate grant date fair value of stock awards calculated in accordance with the accounting 
guidance on share-based payments. For a discussion of the assumptions and methodologies used in calculating the grant date fair value of these awards, 
please see Note 6 to the Company's consolidated financial statements in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the applicable fiscal year. 


For 2023, the amounts reported in this column represent the grant date fair value of PSU and RSU awards. If PepsiCo were to exceed its performance targets, 
grant recipients may earn up to 200% of the target number of PSUs granted. The following table reflects the grant date fair value of the PSU awards at 
below-threshold, target, and maximum performance earn-out levels. 


Value of 2023 PSU Awards 


At Target At Maximum 

Below Level 200% Level 

Name Threshold ($) ($) 
Ramon L. Laguarta — 10,230,075 20,460,150 
Jamie Caulfield — — — 
Steven Williams — 2,640,069 5,280,138 
Kirk Tanner — 2,640,069 5,280,138 
Silviu Popovici — 2,112,021 4,224,042 
Hugh F. Johnston — 4,620,078 9,240,156 


68 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Executive Compensation 


As described in the “2023 Annual Incentive Award” section of the Compensation Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 56 of this Proxy Statement, 
he amounts reported reflect compensation earned for performance under the annual incentive compensation program for that year, paid in March of 
he subsequent year. 


As described in the “Long-Term Incentive Award Payouts” section of the Compensation Discussion and Analysis on page 61 of this Proxy Statement, the 
Long-Term Payout amounts reported for 2023 reflect compensation earned for performance over a three-year period (2021-2023) under the LTC award 

granted in 2021 and paid in March 2024. The amount reported for Mr. Caulfield represents the aggregate amount which he earned under the Premium 

Bonus program for the 2023 performance period prior to his promotion to EVP and CFO, which is paid in equal thirds over three years, beginning in the 
irst quarter following the performance year. 


Represents the total of the Annual Payouts and Long-Term Payouts of Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation. 


The amounts reported reflect the aggregate change in the actuarial present value of each NEO’s accumulated benefit under the defined benefit 
pension plans in which they participate. As PepsiCo does not provide above market or preferential rates on non-qualified deferred compensation, 
notional earnings are not included in this column for any NEOs who may participate in a non-qualified deferred compensation plan. 


The change in pension value reflects changes in age, service, earnings, and market-based assumptions used to determine present value in each year. 
These factors contributed to a negative change of $(243,204) in pension value for Mr. Tanner in 2022, and pursuant to SEC reporting rules, a negative 
change in pension value is reported in the Summary Compensation Table as a zero. 


The following table provides the details for the amounts reported for 2023 for each NEO: 


Car Allowance 


Personal Use and Personal 
of Company Use of Ground Global Tax Charitable Total All Other 
Aircraft Transportation Mobility Equalization Contributions Compensation 
Name ($)) ($)® ($) ag GS)” ($) 
Ramon L. Laguarta“) 650,775 25,350 69,731 40,770 30,000 824,076 
Jamie Caulfield a 22,970 102,800 — a 125,770 
Steven Williams 133,991 25,350 — = 30,000 189,341 
Kirk Tanner 61,800 25,350 — — 2,500 89,650 
Silviu Popovici — 40,616 368,644 — 5,000 414,260 
Hugh F. Johnston 120,767 23,303 — = 16,800 160,870 


‘) Personal use of Company aircraft is valued based on the aggregate incremental cost to the Company, which is generally allocated based on variable 
operating costs (such as fuel, maintenance, landing fees, crew expenses, catering, and en route charges) or the cost associated with the use of 
a charter aircraft. Infrequently, an executive's spouse or other family member may fly on Company aircraft. The NEOs are fully responsible for all 
personal income taxes associated with any personal use of Company aircraft. 


®) Car allowance and personal use of ground transportation includes cash allowance for car usage, cost associated with personal use of a Company- 
provided vehicle, or the aggregate incremental cost to the Company for Company-provided ground transportation (such as fuel and the driver's 
compensation). The NEOs are fully responsible for all personal income taxes associated with any personal use of Company-provided ground 
transportation. The value shown for Mr. Popovici is the annual lease for his Company-provided vehicle as well as fuel used in 2023, converted into 
U.S. dollars based on an average monthly exchange rate of 1 CHF = 1.1152 USD for 2023. 


‘ The amounts reported reflect the expense for benefits provided pursuant to PepsiCo's standard global mobility program as a result of Mr. Laguarta’s 
relocation to the United States, Mr. Caulfield’s relocation to New York, and Mr. Popovici’s global mobility benefits in Switzerland. These benefits 
include tax preparation assistance, housing, cost-of-living and home-leave allowances, and household goods storage. The global mobility program 
facilitates the assignment of employees to positions outside their home country by minimizing any financial detriment or gain to the employee 
from the international assignment. 


© For Mr. Laguarta, this reflects the total net amount of tax equalization designed to cover taxes on his compensation in excess of the taxes he would 
have incurred in his home country. 


® The amounts reported in this column represent PepsiCo Foundation matching gifts, and other charitable contributions or commitments. Under the 
matching gift program, the PepsiCo Foundation matches cash or stock donations to recognized tax-exempt organizations. The PepsiCo Foundation 
annual contributions are generally capped at a total of $10,000, which was increased by $20,000 in October 2023 during our annual corporate- 
wide giving campaign that encourages associates to give back, for a maximum of $30,000 for the fiscal year. PepsiCo Foundation matching gift 
contributions are available to all Pepsico employees and PepsiCo non-employee directors. With respect to Messrs. Laguarta, Williams, Tanner, 
Popovici, and Johnston, the PepsiCo Foundation made matching contributions of $30,000, $30,000, $2,500, $5,000, and $16,800, respectively. 


The total also includes the cost of an annual physical exam for Mr. Laguarta. 


© A portion of global mobility benefits provided to Mr. Popovici while in Switzerland was paid in Swiss Francs and converted into U.S. dollars based on 
an average monthly exchange rate of 1 CHF = 1.1152 USD for 2023. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 69 


Executive Compensation 


2023 Grants of Plan-Based Awards 


The following table summarizes grants of annual incentive awards, LTC awards, PSUs, and RSUs provided to NEOs in 2023. The 
material terms of PepsiCo's annual and LTI programs are described in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis beginning on 
page 50 of this Proxy Statement. 


Estimated Future Estimated Future All Other 
Payouts Under Non-Equity Payouts Under Equity Stock 
Incentive Plan Awards Incentive Plan Awards Awards: 


Number of Grant Date 
Shares of Fair Value 


Stock or of Stock 
Grant Approval Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum Units and Option 
Name Date™ Date” Grant Type (S$) ($) (S) (#) (#) (#) (#) Awards?) 
Ramon L. — 2/1/2023 Annual Incentive? — 3,375,000 6,750,000 
Laguarta = 3/1/2023 2/1/2023 Long-Term Cash® — 5,270,000 10,540,000 
3/1/2023 2/1/2023 PSUs® — 59,825 119,650 10,230,075 
Jamie — 2/1/2023 Annual Incentive? — 312,000 936,000 
Caulfield — 2/1/2023 Premium Bonus”® — 144,000 432,000 
3/1/2023 2/1/2023 RSUs® 7,377 1,261,467 
Steven — 2/1/2023 Annual Incentive? — 1,262,500 3,787,500 
Williams — 3/1/2023 2/1/2023 Long-Term Cash® — 1,360,000 2,720,000 
3/1/2023 2/1/2023 PSUs® — 15,439 30,878 2,640,069 
Kirk — 2/1/2023 Annual Incentive? — 1,262,500 3,787,500 
Tanner 3/1/2023 2/1/2023 Long-Term Cash® — 1,360,000 2,720,000 
3/1/2023 2/1/2023 PSUs — 15,439 30,878 2,640,069 
Silviu — 2/1/2023 Annual Incentive? — 1,187,500 3,562,500 
Popovici = 3/1/2023 2/1/2023 Long-Term Cash” — 1,088,000 2,176,000 
3/1/2023 2/1/2023 PSUs® — 12,351 24,702 2,112,021 
Hugh F. — 2/1/2023 Annual Incentive? — 1,750,000 5,250,000 
Johnston = 3/1/2023 2/1/2023 Long-Term Cash) — 2,380,000 4,760,000 
3/1/2023 2/1/2023 PSUs® — 27,018 54,036 4,620,078 
" Consistent with prior years, 2023 PSUs and LTC awards were approved by the Compensation Committee at its regularly scheduled meeting in February. 


Q) 


The approval date for the awards was February 1, 2023 and the grant date was March 1, 2023. 


The amounts reported represent the aggregate grant date fair value of all PSUs and RSUs granted to NEOs in 2023 calculated in accordance with the 
accounting guidance on share-based payments. For a discussion of the assumptions and methodologies used in calculating the grant date fair value of 
he PSUs and RSUs reported, please see Note 6 to the Company's consolidated financial statements in the Company's 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K 
for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023. 

The amounts reported reflect the potential range of 2023 annual cash incentive awards under the EICP, as described in the “2023 Annual Incentive 
Award" section of the Compensation Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 56 of this Proxy Statement. 

The target and maximum annual incentive for Messrs. Laguarta, Williams, Tanner, and Popovici reflect pro-rated increases due to base salary adjustments 
received in February 2023. 

The amounts reported reflect the potential range of 2023 LTC award payouts under the shareholder-approved LT] Plan. The actual LTC award earned is 


determined based on the level of achievement attained with respect to the pre-established performance targets based on PepsiCo’s TSR relative to the 
proxy peer group over the three-year performance period and will be paid out on the third anniversary of the grant date. 


The actual number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock that are earned for the 2023 PSUs will be determined based on the level of achievement attained with 
respect to Core Constant Currency EPS Growth and Organic Revenue Growth consistent with the pre-established payout scale determined for the three-year 
performance period. If PepsiCo performs below the pre-established performance targets, the number of PSUs earned will be reduced below the target number. 
The amounts reported in the “target” column reflect the number of PSUs that may be paid out if the performance targets are achieved at 100%, and the amounts 
reported in the “maximum” column reflect the maximum number of PSUs that may be paid out if the performance targets are exceeded. 


The PSUs earned by NEOs will vest and be paid out in shares of PepsiCo Common Stock on the third anniversary of the grant date subject to pro-rata 
vesting upon retirement between ages 55 and 61, inclusive, with at least 10 years of service, and full vesting upon retirement at age 62 or older with 
at least 10 years of service, in each case subject to achievement of the applicable performance targets over the full three-year performance period. As 
of 2023 fiscal year-end, Messrs. Laguarta, Williams, Tanner, and Popovici are eligible for pro-rata vesting. Mr. Johnston's PSUs are fully vested due to his 
retirement, and continue to be subject to achievement of applicable performance targets. Notwithstanding the level of performance achieved, the 
Compensation Committee retains the discretion to reduce the number of shares issued in settlement of the 2023 PSU awards. 


The amounts disclosed are with respect to the Compensation Committee's February 1, 2023 approval. Subsequent to this approval, Mr. Caulfield’s 
amounts changed in connection with his promotion to EVP and CFO, and Mr. Johnston’s amounts changed due to his retirement from the Company. 


Mr. Caulfield was eligible for the Premium Bonus program prior to his promotion to his senior executive officer role and associated pay structure. The 
Premium Bonus payout is based on Mr. Caulfield’s target bonus amount and pre-established business and individual performance goals. 


The RSUs granted to Mr. Caulfield were awarded prior to his promotion to his senior executive officer role and associated pay structure. These RSUs will 
vest in full on the earlier of March 1, 2024 and Mr. Caulfield’s retirement from the Company. 


70 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


2023 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End 


The following table lists all outstanding stock option, PSU, and RSU awards as of December 30, 2023 for the NEOs. The material 
terms and conditions of the equity awards reported in this table are described in the “Long-Term Incentive Awards” section of 

the Compensation Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 60 of this Proxy Statement. No LT| award granted to an NEO has 
been transferred to any other person, trust, or entity. 


Executive Compensation 


Option Awards Stock Awards) 
Equity Equity 
Incentive Incentive 
Plan Plan 
Awards: Awards: 
Market Number Market 
Number Value of of orPayout 
of Shares Unearned Value of 
Shares or Shares, Unearned 
or Units Unitsof Units or Shares, 
Number of Number of of Stock Stock Other Units or 
Securities Securities That That Rights Other 
Underlying Underlying Option Have Have That Rights 
Unexercised Unexercised Exercise Option Option Option Not Not HaveNot That Have 
Options (#) Options (#) Price Grant Vesting Expiration Grant Vesting Vested Vested Vested") Not Vested 
Name Exercisable Unexercisable ($) Date Date Date Date Date (#) ($) (#) ($) 
Ramon L. 3/1/2023 3/1/2026 — — 59,825 10,160,678 
Laguarta 3/1/2022 3/1/2025 — _— 57,699 9,799,598 
3/1/2021 3/1/2024 — — 66,629 11,316,269 
Jamie — 14,581 131.25 3/1/2021 3/1/2024 2/28/2031 
Caulfield 11,600 — 131.25 3/1/2020 3/1/2023 2/28/2030 
3/1/2023 3/1/2024 7,377 1,252,910 — — 
Steven 3/1/2023 3/1/2026 — — 5,439 2,622,160 
Williams 3/1/2022 3/1/2025 — — 4,172 2,406,972 
3/1/2021 3/1/2024 — — 5,086 2,562,206 
Kirk 3/1/2023 3/1/2026 — — 5,439 2,622,160 
Tanner 3/1/2022 3/1/2025 — — 4172 2,406,972 
3/1/2021 3/1/2024 — — 5,086 2,562,206 
Silviu 3/1/2023 3/1/2026 — — 2,351 2,097,694 
Popovici 3/1/2022 3/1/2025 — — 2,957 2,200,617 
3/1/2021 3/1/2024 — — 5,086 2,562,206 
Hugh F. 3/1/2023 3/1/2026 — — 27,018 4,588,737 
Johnston 3/1/2022 3/1/2025 — _ 28,344 4,813,945 
3/1/2021 3/1/2024 = — 35,200 5,978,368 


"Each of the PSU awards listed in the table vests three years after the grant date, subject to continued service with PepsiCo through the vesting date 
and achievement of applicable performance targets during a three-year performance period. Each of the awards will vest on a pro-rata basis upon 
retirement between ages 55 and 61, inclusive, with at least 10 years of service, and will vest in full upon retirement at age 62 or older with at least 


0 years of service, subject 
are eligible for pro-rata ves 
performance targets. 


‘0 achievement of applicable performance targets. As of 2023 fiscal year-end, Messrs. Laguarta, Williams, Tanner, and Popovici 
ing. Mr. Johnston's PSUs are fully vested due to his retirement, and continue to be subject to achievement of applicable 


® The market value of unvested PSUs and RSUs reflected in the table have been calculated by multiplying the number of unvested PSUs and RSUs by 


$169.84, PepsiCo's closing s 


® The numbers displayed in t 
Compensation Committee 


The RSUs and stock options 


structure. These RSUs and s 


‘ock price on December 29, 2023, the last trading day of the 2023 fiscal year. 


his column reflect the target number of PSUs awarded. Notwithstanding the level of performance achieved, the 
retains the discretion to reduce the number of shares issued in settlement of these awards. 


granted to Mr. Caulfield were awarded prior to his promotion to his senior executive officer role and associated pay 
ock options will vest in full on the earlier of March 1, 2024 and Mr. Caulfield’s retirement from the Company. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 71 


Executive Compensation 


2023 Option Exercises and Stock Vested 


Option Awards” Stock Awards?) 

Number of Number of 
Shares Value Shares Value 
Acquired Realized Acquired Realized 
on Exercise onExercise on Vesting on Vesting 
Name (#) (Ss) (#) ($) 
Ramon L. Laguarta — _ 123,200 21,041,328 
Jamie Caulfield a —_ 8,538 1,458,205 
Steven Williams — — 35,200 6,011,808 
Kirk Tanner — — 45,258 7,729,614 
Silviu Popovici a —= 45,258 7,729,614 
Hugh F. Johnston — — 70,400 12,023,616 


" Stock option exercises are executed in a manner consistent with PepsiCo’s Share Retention Policy, which is described in the "Governance Features of Our 
Executive Compensation Programs” section of the Compensation Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 64 of this Proxy Statement. 


® — The following table lists PSU and RSU awards that vested in 2023 for the NEOs. 


Number 

Number of of Shares Value Dividend 

Grant Payout Shares Acquired on Realized on Equivalents 

Name Type Date Date Granted (#) Vesting (#) Vesting ($) Paid (S) 
Ramon L. Laguarta PSUs 3/1/2020 = 3/1/2023 61,600 123,200 21,041,328 1,576,344 
Jamie Caulfield PSUs“) 3/1/2020 3/1/2023 1,933 3,866 660,274 49,466 
Jamie Caulfield RSUs®®) 3/1/2022 3/1/2023 4,672 4,672 797,93 21,141 
Steven Williams PSUs 3/1/2020 3/1/2023 17,600 35,200 6,011,808 450,384 
Kirk Tanner PSUs 3/1/2020 3/1/2023 22,629 45,258 7,729,614 579,076 
Silviu Popovici PSUs 3/1/2020 3/1/2023 22,629 45,258 7,/29,614 579,076 
Hugh F. Johnston PSUs 3/1/2020 3/1/2023 35,200 70,400 12,023,616 900,768 


(A) 


(8) 


The value realized on exercise of stock options is equal to the amount per share at which the NEO sold shares acquired on exercise (al 
on the date of exercise), minus the exercise price of the stock options, times the number of shares acquired on exercise of the options 
shares and value realized on exercise include shares that were withheld at the time of exercise to satisfy tax withholding requirements. 


The value realized on vesting of stock awards is equal to the average of the high and low market prices of PepsiCo Common Stock on 
times the number of shares acquired upon vesting. The number of shares and value realized on vesting include shares that were with 


0 years of service. 


vesting to satisfy tax withholding requirements. 


72 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


The awards granted to Mr. Caulfield were awarded prior to his promotion to his senior executive officer role and associated pay s 
The RSU award granted on March 1, 2022 vested on March 1, 2023 as Mr. Caulfield was eligible for full vesting having reached age 


ructure. 
62 with at least 


of which occurred 
. The number of 


the date of vesting, 


held at the time of 


2023 Retirement Benefits 


A summary of defined benefit and defined contribution plans sponsored by PepsiCo that our NEOs participated in during 2023 
are described in the tables below. Benefits for the NEOs who participate in these plans are generally determined using the 
same formula as for other eligible employees. NEOs receive no enhancements that are not available to other eligible employees 


in each plan. 


Executive Compensation 


As disclosed in prior year Proxy Statements, in December 2020, PepsiCo announced that future service accruals for salaried 
employees would cease under the defined benefit pension plans outlined below, effective December 31, 2025, and going 
forward all salaried employees would participate in the defined contribution plans, which are also summarized below. 


PepsiCo Employees 
Retirement Plan | (“PERP-I”) 


PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan 
(“PEP”) 


PepsiCo International Retirement Plan - 
Defined Benefit Program (“PIRP-DB”) 


Eligible NEOs = Ramon L. Laguarta (early retirement eligible) = Ramon L. Laguarta (frozen) 
= Jamie Caulfield (retirement eligible) 
= Steven Williams (early retirement eligible) 
= Kirk Tanner (early retirement eligible) 
= Hugh F. Johnston (retired from the Company) 
Type of Plan Qualified defined benefit on-qualified defined benefit Non-qualified defined benefit 
pension plan pension plan pension plan 
Eligibility U.S. salaried employees hired Employees eligible to participate Generally covers non-US. citizens 
prior to January 1, 2011 in the PERP-| whose benefits hired prior to January 1, 2011 who 
under the PERP-| are affected were active participants in a defined 
by limitations imposed by the benefit retirement plan sponsored 
Internal Revenue Code on by their home country and were 
qualified plan compensation unable to remain in that plan during 
or benefits their assignment outside their home 
country, designated for participation 
by PepsiCo 
Form of Benefits generally payable as = Benefits accrued and vested Benefits payable as a single 
Payment a single life annuity, a single by December 31, 2004 are life annuity, a single lump sum 
Upon lump sum distribution, a generally paid in the same form | distribution, a joint and survivor 
Retirement joint and survivor annuity, a and at the same time the PERP-I | annuity, a 10-year certain annuity, or 
10-year certain annuity, or a benefits are paid a combination of a partial lump sum 
combination of a partial lump = Benefits accrued or vested and an annuity 
sum and an annuity after December 31, 2004 are 
payable at termination (subject 
to a six-month delay under 
Section 409A of the Internal 
Revenue Code), in the form of a 
lump sum 
Benefit = Normal retirement benefits payable at age 65 with 5 years of service 
Timing = Unreduced early retirement benefits payable as early as age 62 with 10 years of service 


= Reduced early retirement benefit payable at age 55 with 10 years of service, determined by reducing the 
normal retirement benefit by 4% for each year benefits begin prior to age 62 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 73 


Executive Compensation 


PepsiCo Employees 


Retirement Plan 


| (“PERP-1”) 


PepsiCo Pension Equalization 
Plan (“PEP”) 


PepsiCo International Retirement Plan - 
Defined Benefit Program (“PIRP-DB”) 


= Same terms and conditions 
as the PERP-I as determined 
without regard to the Internal 
Revenue Code limitations on 
compensation and benefits 


= Substantially the same as the 
formula under the PERP-| and 
the PEP, without the Social 
Security offset 


= Offset by retirement benefits 


Retirement A single life annuity beginning 
Benefit at normal retirement age 
Formula generally determined as follows: 
= 3% for each year of service up 
to 10 years, plus 1% for each 


year of service in excess of 10, 
multiplied by the executive's 
highest consecutive five-year 


= Offset by the actual benefit 
payable under the PERP-| 


paid under any other Company 
plan or government mandated 
retirement program 


average Mon 


Code regulat 
service and e 


December 31 


thly earnings 


base salary and annual 
bonus compensation, 
imited by Internal Revenue 
ions), based on 


arnings up to 
, 2025 


= Reduced by 0.43% of 


consecutive 
average mon 
up to applica 


the executive's highest 
five-year 


thly earnings 
ble monthly 


Social Securi 


y covered 


compensation, multiplied 
by the executive's years of 


service up to 
service and e 
December 31 


35, based on 
arnings up to 
, 2025 


Disability/ 7 
Death 
Benefits 


= Ifan employe 


who is retirement el 
benefit under the 50% joint and survivor option. The surviving 
spouse, domestic partner, or estate of an active retirement-elig 
participant is also entitled to a one-time payment equal to the 
accrued at death, oft 


sum benefi 
any surviving 


payable. This specia 


from the plan 


e dies, 
igible is entit 


spouse's or domes 
death bene 


the spouse or domestic partner of an emp 


All participants who become disabled after 10 years of service and 
remain disabled until retirement generally receive continued service 
for the duration of their disability, but not past December 31, 2025 


oyee 
ed to a pension equal to the survivor 


ible 
lump 
fset by the lump sum value of 
tic partner's benefit that might be 
fit is paid by the Company and not 


If the participant dies, the spouse or 
domestic partner of an employee 

is entitled to a pension equal to the 
survivor benefit under the 50% joint 
and survivor option 


Deferred . 
Vested 
Benefits . 


service had the parti 
the participant's yea 


= Deferred vested benefits under 


ump sum be 


the Internal R 


however, a participa 
reflect the longer pa 


cipant remained employed 
rs of credited service at term 
potential years of credited service had the partici 


yment period. A participant 


the PERP-| and P 


For a participant with five or more years of service who terminates employment prior to attaining either age 
55 with 10 years of service or age 65 with 5 years of service 


Benefit is equal to the retirement benefit formula amount calculated using the potential years of credited 

o age 65 pro-rated by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
ination and the denominator of which is the participant's 
pant remained employed to age 65 

RP-DB are payable as an annuity commencing at age 65; 


nt may elect to commence benefits as early as age 55 on an actuarially reduced basis to 
who terminates from the PERP-I is eligible for a one-time 


nefit within 365 days of termination, provided that the participant does not have a PEP benefit 


that vested prior to 2005. A participant who term 
sum benefit within 365 days of termi 
age 55 or termination (subject to a six-month de 


evenue Code) 


inates from the PIRP-DB is also eligible for a one-time lump 
nation. Deferred vested benefits under PEP are payable at the later of 
ay and form of payment restrictions under Section 409A of 


74 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


PepsiCo Savings Plan - Automatic Retirement 
Contribution Program (“ARC”) 


Executive Compensation 


PepsiCo International Retirement Plan - 
Defined Contribution Program (“PIRP-DC”) 


Eligible NEOs = None of the NEOs participate in the ARC | ®™ Silviu Popovici 
Type of Plan Qualified defined contribution plan Non-qualified defined contribution plan 
Eligibility Generally covers U.S. salaried employees hired | Generally covers non-US. citizens hired on or after 


on or after January 1, 2011 


January 1, 2011 who are unable to remain in their home 
country retirement plan during their assignment outside 
their home country and are designated for participation 
by PepsiCo 


Form of Payment 
Upon Retirement 


Benefits are payable as a single lump sum 
distribution or in installments 


Benefits are payable as a single lump sum distribution 


Benefit Timing Vested account balance payable following retirement/termination 
Retirement = Contributions are determined by ® Pay Credits are determined by multiplying the eligible 
Benefit multiplying a percentage (range of 2% to pay credit percentage (ranging from 5% to 12%) by the 
Formula 9% based on age and years of service) by eligible annualized pay 
eligible pay, subject to Internal Revenue = Interest Credits are allocated based on the U.S. 30-year 
Code limitations Treasury rate 
™ PepsiCo provides a matching contribution = Offset by retirement benefits paid under any other 
of 50% up to either 4% or 6% of eligible Company plan or government mandated retirement 
pay, based on years of service program 
Disability/Death If the participant dies, the spouse, domestic partner, or beneficiary is entitled to receive the vested 
Benefits account balance 
Deferred Vested Vested account balance payable following retirement/termination 
Benefits 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 75 


Executive Compensation 


The Present Value of Accumulated Benefit reported in the 2023 Pension Benefits Table below represents the accumulated 
benefit obligation for benefits earned to date, based on age, service, and earnings through the measurement date of 
December 30, 2023. 


Number of Present 
Years Value of Payments 
Credited Accumulated During Last 
Service Benefit Fiscal Year 
Name Plan Name (#) ($) ($) 
Ramon L. Laguarta?’ PepsiCo International Retirement Plan - DB 21-0 4,026,244 — 
PepsiCo Employees Retirement Plan 6.3 78,239 — 
PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan 25,806,032 _ 
Jamie Caulfield PepsiCo Employees Retirement Plan 30.1 643,281 — 
PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan 3,475,772 — 
Steven Williams PepsiCo Employees Retirement Plan 27.0 209,917 — 
PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan 7,444,000 — 
Kirk Tanner PepsiCo Employees Retirement Plan 31.5 210,075 _ 
PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan 8,992,930 —_ 
Silviu Popovici PepsiCo International Retirement Plan - DC 6.3 579,332 — 
Hugh F. Johnston PepsiCo Employees Retirement Plan | 33,7 894,508 — 
PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan 21,519,357 — 
® The amounts with respect to the defined benefit plan provisions have been calculated using actuarial methods and assumptions shown below in the 
fiscal year-end valuation under the guidance on employers’ accounting for pensions with the assumption, required by SEC disclosure rules, that each 
NEO remains in service until retirement at the earliest date when unreduced retirement benefits would be available (i.e, age 62 or older); discount rate of 
5.15% for the PepsiCo Employees Retirement Plan |, 5.12% for the PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan, and 5.16% for the PepsiCo International Retirement 
Plan; and benefits were converted to lump sums based on a 5.75% lump sum conversion rate at retirement. 
® The amounts reported for Mr. Laguarta above reflect his transition to the U.S. on September 1, 2017. In 2017, Mr. Laguarta was credited service under the 


PepsiCo International Retirement Plan - DB commencing on his hire date in lieu of end-of-service benefits under his prior Spanish employment terms 
that he ceased to be eligible for upon his relocation to the U.S. 


76 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Executive Compensation 


2023 Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation 


Executive Income Deferral Program 


Eligible NEOs = Jamie Caulfield 
= Steven Williams 
® Kirk Tanner 
= Hugh F. Johnston 
Description Non-qualified and unfunded program that allows certain U.S.-based eligible employees to defer a 


portion of their annual compensation to a later date. The participants’ balances are unsecured, subject 
to the claims of PepsiCo’'s creditors and may be forfeited in the event of the Company's bankruptcy 


Deferral Limits 


Eligible PepsiCo executives may defer up to 75% of base salary and 100% of annual cash incentive 
compensation. The Company does not provide a matching contribution on any deferrals 


Return on Plan 
Balance 


Executives earn a return on their notional accounts based on investments in the phantom funds 
selected by the executives (listed in footnote 3 of the table below) from a list of phantom funds 
made available by the Company. The EIDP does not guarantee a rate of return and none of the funds 
provide above market earnings 


Distributions 


At the time of election to defer, executives are required to choose to receive future payments on 
either a specific date or upon separation from service 


Notwithstanding a participant's payment election, deferrals made after 2000 are paid in a lump sum 
at the time of separation from service in cases in which separation (other than retirement) occurs 
prior to the elected payment date 


Payments of deferrals made after 2004 to executives who are specified employees under Section 
AO9A of the Internal Revenue Code that are triggered by a separation from service are delayed 
six months following separation 


Form of 
Payment 


Made in cash and received as a lump sum or in installments (quarterly, semi-annually, or annually) over 
a period of up to 20 years and up to age 80 


For additional detail on PepsiCo’s EIDP, refer to the “Executive Income Deferral” section of the Compensation Discussion and 
Analysis on page 62 of this Proxy Statement. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 77 


Executive Compensation 


Supplemental Savings Program 


Eligible NEOs = None of the NEOs participate in the PepsiCo Automatic Retirement Contribution Equalization 
Program (the “ARC-E’) 


Description The ARGE is a non-qualified, non-elective defined contribution deferred compensation plan 
sponsored by PepsiCo to provide benefits to employees whose benefits under the ARC portion 
of the PepsiCo Savings Plan are limited due to Internal Revenue Code limitations on qualified plan 
compensation and contributions 


Eligibility U.S. salaried employees hired on or after January 1, 2011 


Form of Payment _ Benefits are payable as a single lump sum distribution 
Upon Retirement 


Benefits Timing = Vested account balance payable following retirement/separation from service 


= Payments made to executives who are specified employees under Section 409A of the 
Internal Revenue Code that are triggered by a separation from service are delayed six months 
following separation 


Retirement Contributions have the same terms and conditions as ARC described in the “2023 Retirement 
Benefits Formula —_ Benefits” section beginning on page 73 without regard to the Internal Revenue Code limitations on 
compensation and contributions, offset by actual contributions to the ARC 


Disability/Death A participant's account balance vests upon long-term disability, and if the participant dies, the 
Benefits account balance vests and the spouse, domestic partner, or beneficiary is entitled to receive the 
vested account balance 


The following table provides information regarding participation by NEOs in our non-qualified deferred compensation 
programs during 2023 and at fiscal year-end. 


Executive Registrant Aggregate 

Contributions Contributions Aggregate Aggregate Balance at 

in Last in Last Earnings in Last Withdrawals/ Last Fiscal 

Fiscal Year Fiscal Year Fiscal Year Distributions Year-End 

Name ($) ($) ($) ($)? ($)) 
Jamie Caulfield — — 89,706 109,311 469,887 
Steven Williams — — 452,183 — 2,875,145 
Kirk Tanner — — 78,188 285,791 91,891 
Hugh F. Johnston — — (119,645) — 3,483,170 


") PepsiCo does not provide above market or preferential rates and, as a result, the notional earnings are not included in the 2023 Summary 
Compensation Table. 


® The amount reported for Mr. Caulfield represents the distribution of his previously deferred 2018 annual incentive compensation. The amount reported 
or Mr. Tanner represents the distribution of his previously deferred 2004 annual incentive compensation. 


8) one of the amounts reported in this column are reflected in the 2023 Summary Compensation Table with respect to Messrs. Caulfield, Williams, Tanner, 
and Johnston. Deferral balances of NEOs under the EIDP were notionally invested in the following phantom funds and earned the following rates of 
return in 2023: PepsiCo Common Stock Fund: -3.20%, BlackRock LifePath Retirement Fund: +11.13%, BlackRock International Equity Index Fund: +18.21%, 
BlackRock Small Cap Equity Index Fund: +16.78%, BlackRock Mid Cap Equity Index Fund: +16.37%, BlackRock Large Cap Equity Index Fund: +26.28%, 
BlackRock Total U.S. Equity Index Fund: +25.99%, Security Plus Fund: +2.59%, Dodge & Cox Bond Separate Account: +8.07%, and Defined Applicable 
Federal Rate (AFR) Fund: +4.96%. 


78 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Executive Compensation 


Potential Payments on Termination or Change in Control 


Termination of Employment/Retirement 


None of our NEOs have any arrangement that provides for severance payments or severance benefits. 


In the event an NEO retires, terminates, or resigns from PepsiCo for any reason as of fiscal year-end, they would be entitled to 
a retirement benefit and any outstanding balance calculated in accordance with the terms and conditions disclosed in the 
“2023 Retirement Benefits” section beginning on page 73 of this Proxy Statement and in the “2023 Non-Qualified Deferred 
Compensation” section beginning on page 77 of this Proxy Statement. 


Our NEOs’ unvested annual LTI awards vest on a pro-rata basis upon retirement between ages 55 and 61, inclusive, and fully 
vest upon death, disability, or retirement on or after age 62. In order to be retirement eligible, an executive must be at least age 
55 with 10 or more years of service. For special awards, no accelerated vesting occurs upon retirement. In the event of death 

or long-term disability, special awards fully vest. Even after vesting, PSUs and LTC awards remain subject to the achievement of 
pre-established performance targets. 


The following table sets forth, for each NEO, the value of the unvested stock options, PSUs, RSUs, and LTC awards, and accrued 
dividend equivalents on PSUs and RSUs that would vest or be forfeited if the NEO’s employment terminated on December 30, 
2023, the last day of the 2023 fiscal year, due to termination without cause, retirement, death, or long-term disability: 


Termination/Retirement | Death/Long-Term Disability 


($ in millions) ($ in millions) 

Name Vest Forfeit Vest Forfeit 
Ramon L. Laguarta 29.4 18.2 18.2 _ 
Jamie Caulfield 13 — — — 
Steven Williams 70 46 46 — 
Kirk Tanner 70 46 46 — 
Silviu Popovici 6.6 3.9 3.9 — 
Hugh F. Johnston 23.4 — — — 
The PSUs and RSUs were valued at a price of $169.84, PepsiCo’s closing stock price on December 29, 2023, the last trading day of the 2023 fiscal year. 


Death and Long-Term Disability vesting amounts do not include the value of vested stock options that have already been earned or unvested PSUs, 
RSUs, and LTC awards that an executive may have earned due to fulfilling the retirement eligibility criteria. As of 2023 fiscal year-end, Messrs. Laguarta, 
Williams, Tanner, and Popovici are eligible for pro-rata vesting of annual LTI awards, and Messrs. Caulfield and Johnston are eligible for full vesting of 
annual LT| awards. 


Change in Control 


PepsiCo has a long history of maintaining a “double trigger” vesting policy. This means that unvested stock options, PSUs, RSUs, 
and LTC awards only vest if the participant is terminated without cause or resigns for good reason within two years following a 
change in control of PepsiCo or if the acquirer fails to assume or replace the outstanding awards. 


For each NEO, the following table illustrates: 
= the value of the stock options, PSUs, RSUs, LTC awards, and accrued dividend equivalents on PSUs and RSUs that would vest 
upon a change in control of PepsiCo without termination of employment; and 


= the value of the stock options, PSUs, RSUs, LTC awards, and accrued dividend equivalents on PSUs and RSUs that would vest 
upon an NEO’s termination without cause or resignation for good reason or if the acquirer does not assume or replace the 
outstanding awards at the time of the change in control. 


Change in Control 
($ in millions) 


Total Benefit: Total Benefit: Qualifying 


Change in Termination upon 
Name Control Only Change in Control” 
Ramon L. Laguarta _ 18.2 
Jamie Caulfield — — 
Steven Williams — 46 
Kirk Tanner — 46 
Silviu Popovici — 3.9 
Hugh F. Johnston _ — 


"The amounts reported in this column assume that both the change in control and termination occurred on December 30, 2023, the last day of the 2023 
fiscal year. The stock options, PSUs, and RSUs were valued based on PepsiCo’s $169.84 closing stock price on December 29, 2023, the last trading day of 
the 2023 fiscal year. Amounts do not include vested options that have already been earned due to continued service or unvested PSUs, RSUs, and LTC 
awards that an executive may have earned due to fulfilling the retirement eligibility criteria. As of 2023 fiscal year-end, Messrs. Laguarta, Williams, Tanner, 
and Popovici are eligible for pro-rata vesting of annual LT! awards, and Messrs. Caulfield and Johnston are eligible for full vesting of annual LTI awards. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 79 


Executive Compensation 


Compensation Committee Report 


The Compensation Committee has reviewed and discussed the foregoing Compensation Discussion and Analysis with 
management. Based on this review and discussion, the Compensation Committee recommended to the Board of Directors 
that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in this Proxy Statement and incorporated by reference into the 
Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023. 


The Compensation Committee 


Cesar Conde, Chair Dina Dublon Robert C. Pohlad 
David C. Page Daniel Vasella 


The information contained in the above report will not be deemed to be “soliciting material” or “filed” with the SEC, nor will 
this information be incorporated into any future filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent the 
Company specifically incorporates such report by reference. 


80 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Executive Compensation 


CEO Pay Ratio 


As required by Section 953(b) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, we are providing disclosure 
regarding the ratio of the annual total compensation of our CEO to that of our median employee. As a global organization, we 
have employees operating in 79 countries serving customers and consumers in more than 200 countries and territories. Our 

objective is to provide competitive compensation commensurate with an employee's position and geographic location, while 
also linking compensation to Company and individual performance. 


To provide context for this disclosure, it is important to understand the scope of our operations. 


= Globally Diverse Workforce. More than half of our employees are located outside the United States in locations where the cost 
of living is significantly below the U.S., including developing and emerging markets such as Brazil, China, Mexico, Russia, and 
South Africa. The compensation elements and pay levels of our employees can vary dramatically from country to country 
based on market trends, cost of living, and cost of labor. These factors, along with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, 
impact the median employee compensation and the resulting ratio. 


= Frontline is a Strategic Advantage. PepsiCo has a large global frontline employee population driven by our direct-store-delivery 
model and in-house manufacturing and supply chain in many markets. We believe our frontline employees who make, 
merchandise, move, and sell our products represent a strategic advantage for PepsiCo. PepsiCo’s integrated approach 
enables us to bring innovative products to market faster, allows us to react more quickly to changes in the marketplace, and 
builds unmatched customer relationships at the store level. 


Calculating Methodology 


In 2023, to identify our median employee and calculate such employee's annual total compensation, we used consistent 
methodologies, estimates, and assumptions that were used prior to 2023 to identify any previous median employees. 


Gathering Data on our Worldwide Employee Population. Due to the complexity of collecting compensation information across 

all the countries in which we have employees and the limited employee headcount in some of those countries, we used the 
de minimis exemption permitted under applicable SEC rules to exclude approximately 5,667 employees from 42 countries and 
territories as detailed below, bifurcated into our reportable segments in effect for 2023. 


= Africa, Middle East and South Asia - 860: Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Lebanon, Nigeria, United Arab Emirates 


= Asia Pacific, Australia and New Zealand and China Region - 1,587: Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, 
Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam 


= Europe - 2,085: Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, 
Georgia, Hungary, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Uzbekistan 


= Latin America - 1,135: Bermuda, Bolivia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Panama, Paraguay, Uruguay 


The excluded employees represented less than 5% of our total global population of 321,923 as of October 3, 2023. In certain 
countries, our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. After our use of the de minimis exemption, our employee 
population from which we determined our median employee consisted of 316,256 individuals from 37 countries. 


We collected full-year 2022 compensation data for the October 3, 2023 employee population, relying on our internal payroll 
and tax records, rather than using statistical sampling. 


Consistently Applied Compensation Measure. Our employees are compensated through multiple compensation elements that 
are highly dependent on the role, market practices, and statutory requirements within each country where our employees 
are located. Because of the differences in compensation elements globally, we identified all cash-based compensation plus 
equity-based compensation that was realized in the measurement period as an appropriate representation of the annual total 
compensation for our employees in accordance with SEC rules. 


= Compensation was annualized on a straight-line basis for full-time and part-time new hire employees who did not work a full 
fiscal year. 


= We used the 12-month average exchange rate to convert each non-U.S. employee's total compensation to U.S. dollars, 
enabling the median to be identified. 


= We calculated the total compensation for the median employee in the same manner in which we determine the 
compensation shown for our NEOs in the Summary Compensation Table, including the value of retirement benefits. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 81 


Executive Compensation 


The Ratio 


The following ratio of Mr. Laguarta’s annual total compensation to the median employee's for our last completed fiscal year is a 
reasonable estimate calculated in a manner consistent with applicable SEC rules. 


= The median employee's total compensation was $52,356. 


= The total compensation was calculated in the same manner in which we determine the compensation shown for our NEOs 
in the Summary Compensation Table, including the value of retirement benefits. 


® As reported in the Summary Compensation Table on page 68, our CEO's compensation was $33,906,212. 


Based on this information, the ratio of Mr. Laguarta’s annual total compensation to the median employee compensation for 
2023 was estimated to be 648 to 1. 


82 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Executive Compensation 


Pay Versus Performance 


The following table and graphs below summarize the relationship between executive compensation “actually paid” (referred to 
as “Compensation Actually Paid’ or the ‘CAP Amounts’) to the Principal Executive Officer (“PEO") and the Non-PEO Named 
Executive Officers (‘Non-PEO NEOs’), and the financial performance of the Company over the time horizon set forth below in 
accordance with SEC rules. The Compensation Committee does not use the CAP Amounts as a basis for making compensation 
decisions. For a discussion of how our Compensation Committee seeks to align pay with performance when making 
compensation decisions, please review the Compensation Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 50 of this Proxy Statement. 


The financial performance measures used are the Company's TSR, the peer group TSR (as disclosed under Item 201(e) of 
Regulation S-K), and the Company's Net Income, each of which are required financial performance measures under the SEC 
rules. The SEC rules also require an issuer to select its most important other financial performance measure that is used to 
link the CAP Amounts paid to these officers to the Company's performance, which is Core Constant Currency EPS Growth, as 
reflected in the SEGrequired table below. 


Company 

Average es Selected 

Summary Average Summary Compensation Value of Initial Fixed $100 Measure: 
Compensation Compensation Compensation Table ActuallyPaidto _!nvestment Based On: GAAP Net Core Constant 

Table Totalfor Actually Paid Total forNon-PEO Non-PEO NEOs Peer Group Income Currency EPS 

Year PEO ($) to PEO ($)?) NEOs ($) ($)? TSR ($) TSR (S$) ($ Millions) Growth” 
2023 33,906,212 36,541,470 8,940,674 9,643,270 139.01 125.66 9,155 14% 
2022 28,388,228 39,459,410 9,410,089 13,789,185 143.76 132.87 8,978 11% 
2021 25,506,607 42,875,825 9,096,366 15,171,885 134.65 122.05 7,679 12% 
2020 21,486,982 22,842,981 8,459,321 9,727,328 111.7] 106.77 7175 10% 


‘) The PEO was Ramon L. Laguarta for all years in the table. The Non-PEO NEOs were Kirk Tanner (all years), Silviu Popovici (all years), Hugh F. Johnston (all 
years), Steven Williams (2023, 2022, and 2021), Jamie Caulfield (2023), and David Yawman (2020). 


® — The following table describes the adjustments for 2023, each of which is prescribed by SEC rules, to calculate the CAP Amounts from the Summary 
Compensation Table (“SCT”) Amounts. The SCT Amounts and the CAP Amounts do not reflect the actual amount of compensation earned by or paid to 
our executives, but rather are amounts determined in accordance with Item 402 of Regulation S-K under the Exchange Act. Pursuant to the applicable 
rules, the amounts in the “Stock Awards” and “Change in Pension Value and Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Earnings” columns from the 
Summary Compensation Table are subtracted from the SCT Amounts and the values reflected in the table below are added or subtracted as applicable: 


2023 
Adjustments ($) PEO Non-PEO NEOs* 
SCT Amounts 33,906,212 8,940,674 
Adjustments for defined benefit and actuarial pension plans 
Aggregate change in actuarial present value included in “Change in Pension Value and Non-Qualified (7,746,199) (1,848,621) 
Deferred Compensation Earnings” column in SCT 
Service cost for the covered fiscal year 932,487 295,364 
Prior service cost for the covered fiscal year — — 
Adjustments for stock awards 
Aggregate value for stock awards included in “Stock Awards” column in SCT (10,230,075) (2,654,741) 
Fair value at year-end of awards granted during the covered fiscal year that were outstanding and 17,608,867 4,385,877 
unvested at the covered fiscal year-end 
Year-over-year change in fair value at covered fiscal year-end of awards granted in any prior fiscal year 1,709,818 412,722 
that were outstanding and unvested at the covered fiscal year-end 
Change as of the vesting date (from the end of the prior fiscal year) in fair value of awards granted in (1,215,984) (403,987) 
any prior fiscal year for which vesting conditions were satisfied during the covered fiscal year 
Dividends or other earnings paid on stock awards in the covered fiscal year prior to vesting if not 1,576,344 515,982 
otherwise included in the total compensation for the covered fiscal year 
Compensation Actually Paid (as calculated) 36,541,470 9,643,270 


* Amounts presented are averages for the entire group of Non-PEO NEOs. 

The valuation assumptions used to calculate the fair values of stock awards for Compensation Actually Paid differ from those used to calculate the fair 
values at the time of grant as reflected in the SCT Amounts. Instead of using the target value for stock-settled compensation, Compensation Actually 
Paid reflects the fiscal year-end performance forecast for each outstanding award. Performance forecasts are not disclosed because such disclosure 
would result in competitive harm to the Company; however, as of fiscal year-end 2023, all outstanding stock awards are forecasted to pay out above 
arget. In addition, instead of using the grant price for stock-settled compensation, Compensation Actually Paid reflects the stock price of $169.84 on 
December 29, 2023, the last trading day of the 2023 fiscal year. 

® — The peer group is the S&P Average of Industry Groups, which is derived by weighting the returns of two applicable S&P Industry Groups (the S&P 500 Soft 
Drinks & Non-alcoholic Beverages and S&P 500 Packaged Foods and Meats indices) based on PepsiCo'’s sales in its beverage and foods businesses. The 
returns for PepsiCo and the S&P Average of Industry Groups are calculated through December 30, 2023. 

Please refer to Appendix A to this Proxy Statement for a description and reconciliation of this non-GAAP compensation performance measure relative to 
he reported GAAP financial measure. In calculating this compensation performance measure, PepsiCo’s 2020 Core Constant Currency EPS Growth was 
adjusted to exclude certain charges taken as a result of COVID-19 in 2020. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 83 


Executive Compensation 


The following table lists the seven performance measures that, in our assessment, represent the most important performance 


measures we used to link compensation for our Named Executive Officers in 2023 to Company performance. 


Most Important Performance Measures 


Core Constant Currency EPS Growth®) Organic Revenue Growth") 
Core Constant Currency Net Income Growth) Relative Competitive Performance 
Core Constant Currency Operating Profit Growth® Relative Total Shareholder Return 


Free Cash Flow Excluding Certain Items 


The following charts show graphically the relationships over the past four years of the CAP Amounts for our PEO and Non-PEO 
NEOs as compared to our cumulative TSR, Peer Group TSR, GAAP Net Income, and Core Constant Currency EPS Growth®), as 


well as the relationship between TSR and Peer Group TSR: 


CAP VERSUS CORE CONSTANT CURRENCY EPS 
GROWTH®! (2020 - 2023) 


Core Constant Currency EPS Growth 


Compensation Actually Paid ($ Millions) 


Compensation Actually Paid ($ Millions) 


2020 2021 2022 2023 
m=z Compensation Actually ma Average Compensation Actually mm PepsiCo Core 
Paid to PEO Paid to Non-PEO NEOs Constant Currency 


EPS Growth) 


CAP VERSUS GAAP NET INCOME (2020 - 2023) 


2020 2021 2022 2023 
m= Compensation Actually ma Average Compensation Actually mm PepsiCo GAAP 
Paid to PEO Paid to Non-PEO NEOs Net Income 


CAP VERSUS TSR AND PEER GROUP TSR 


505 
45 
40 
3544 


Compensation Actually Paid ($ Millions) 


143.76 


30.46 [oroead [$120 


$160 
$140 


t- $100 
$80 
[$60 
$40 
$20 


TSR (PepsiCo & Peer Group Separately) 


$0 


2020 2021 2022 2023 
m= Compensation m= Average Compensation -~@ PepsiCoTSR -@ Peer Group TSR 
Actually Paid to PEO Actually Paid to Non-PEO NEOs 


©) Please refer to Appendix A to this Proxy Statement for a description and reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures relative to reported GAAP 


financial measures, and to pages 46-51 and 53 of PepsiCo’s 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023 for a more 


detailed description of the items excluded from these measures. 
© — Refers to Core Constant Currency Net Income attributable to PepsiCo growth. 


Our executive compensation program is aligned with our business strategy and with creating long-term shareholder value by 
paying for performance, with a significant portion of NEOs’ pay subject to risk and performance. Reflecting our strong pay-for- 


PepsiCo Net Income ($ Millions) 


performance compensation philosophy, our results delivered to shareholders generally translated into above-target payouts of 


annual and long-term incentive awards as shown above. 


It is important to note that the CAP Amounts paid to our executive officers do not necessarily reflect the actual value that 
an executive will receive in the stated fiscal year as such value will depend on a variety of factors. For example, the value of 
PSUs that an executive will receive will ultimately depend on the stock price at the time of vesting along with the financial 
performance metrics achieved during the applicable three-year performance cycle and, therefore, remain at risk of forfeiture or 


reduction until the time of vesting. 


The information contained in this Pay Versus Performance section will not be incorporated into any filings under the Securities 


Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent the Company specifically incorporates such information by reference. 


84 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Executive Compensation 


Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity 
Compensation Plans 


The following table provides information as of December 30, 2023 with respect to the shares of PepsiCo Common Stock that 
may be issued under our equity compensation plans. 


Number of securities Number of securities 
to be issued upon Weighted-average remaining available 
exercise of exercise price of for future issuance under 
outstanding outstanding options, equity compensation plans 
options, warrants warrants and (excluding securities 
Plan Category and rights(a) rights(b) reflected in column(a))(c) 
Equity compensation plans approved 
by security holders 7,093,994 $136.10° 28,058,122 
Equity compensation plans not approved 
by security holders — _— 
Tota 7,093,994 $136,10° 28,058,122 
Includes the LTI Plan. 
® — This amount includes 5,597,827 PSUs and RSUs that, if and when vested, will be settled in shares of PepsiCo Common Stock. This amount also includes 


(3) 


329,652 phantom units under the PepsiCo Director Deferral Program that will be settled in shares of Common Stock pursuant to the LTI Plan at the end 
of the applicable deferral period. For PSUs for which the performance period has ended as of December 30, 2023, the amounts reported in the table 
reflect the actual number of PSUs earned above and below target levels based on actual performance measured at the end of the performance period. 
The amounts reported in the table assume target level performance for PSUs which have not vested as of December 30, 2023. If maximum earn-out 
levels are assumed for such PSUs, the total number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock to be issued upon exercise and/or settlement of outstanding 
awards as of December 30, 2023 is 17,765,885. 


Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options only. 


The shareholder-approved LT Plan is the only equity compensation plan under which PepsiCo currently issues equity awards. As of May 2, 2007, the 
LT| Plan superseded the Company's prior plan, the shareholder-approved 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan, and no further awards were made under 
the 2003 plan. The LT! Plan permits the award of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted and unrestricted shares, restricted stock units and 
performance shares and units. The LT| Plan authorizes a number of shares for issuance equal to 195,000,000 plus the number of shares underlying 
awards under the Company's prior equity compensation plans that are canceled or expired after May 2, 2007 without delivery of shares. Under the LTI 
Plan, any stock option granted reduces the available number of shares on a one-to-one basis, any RSU or other full value award granted before May 5, 
2010 reduces the available number of shares on a one-to-one basis and any RSU or other full value award granted on or after May 5, 2010 reduces the 
available number of shares on a one-to-three basis. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 85 


Approval of the Amended and Restated PepsiCo, Inc. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (Proxy Item No. 4) 


The Board of Directors is asking shareholders to approve the amendment and restatement of PepsiCo’s Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (the “Plan’). The Board and our shareholders initially approved the Plan in 2007 and subsequently re-approved the Plan 
in 2010 and 2016. On February 7, 2024, on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors 
approved the Plan, as amended and restated, subject to shareholder approval. 


The Plan, as amended and restated, reflects the following material amendments: 


Renewing the 10-year term of the Plan will allow PepsiCo to continue granting awards 


Ext thet f the Pl til May 1, 2034 ee 
eae een et ere ey beyond the Plan’s May 4, 2026 expiration 


Increasing the authorized shares will secure adequate shares to fund future awards 
under the Company's long-term incentive program to continue to attract, retain, and 
motivate talented employees critical to the Company's long-term success and growth 


Increase the maximum total number of shares 
of PepsiCo Common Stock available for 


i by 75,000,0 ; ; ; 

ic a a al and to align the interests of our employees with those of our shareholders 
Revising the minimum vesting requirement will strengthen the Company's 

Change the minimum vesting requirement competitive advantage in the market by aligning with peer practices and 

from 3 years to 1 year will provide the Compensation Committee with greater flexibility to design 


compensation programs 


Increase the limit of the one-time initial award [Increasing the limit of the one-time initial award will ensure the value of the 1,000 
value for newly appointed or elected non- shares awarded to a new non-employee director at the time of appointment does not 
employee directors to $500,000 exceed the dollar value limit due to stock price appreciation 


Eliminating obsolete provisions required by Section 162(m) of the U.S. Internal 
Eliminate obsolete tax law provisions Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (the “Code’) will provide the Company with 
additional flexibility in structuring awards 


Long-term incentive awards granted under the Plan are an important part of the Company's overall compensation program. 
The ability to grant these awards is essential to the Company's success in attracting, retaining, and motivating talented 
employees and directors. The long-term incentive awards align the interest of our employees and directors with those of our 
shareholders and help ensure a pay-for-performance linkage. The Plan is the only plan under which the Company awards 
equity-based compensation. In the event shareholders do not approve the amended and restated Plan, the Company will not 
be able to grant long-term incentive awards after the May 4, 2026 expiration date. 


PepsiCo's Low Overhang and Run Rate 


While the use of equity awards is an important part of our compensation program, we are mindful of our responsibility to 
our shareholders in granting equity awards. The following table illustrates the historic overhang and run rate of our equity 
compensation program over the past three fiscal years: 


2021 2022 2023 
Overhang” 42% 3.7% 3.2% 
Run Rate?) 0.3% 0.3 % 0.3 % 


" — Overhang represents the number of shares subject to outstanding awards plus shares available for grant under the Plan (the numeraton), divided by the 
total number of common shares outstanding at the end of that fiscal year, plus the number of shares in the numerator. 


® Run rate represents all awards granted in a fiscal year, divided by the number of common shares outstanding at the end of that fiscal year. 


86 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Approval of the Amended and Restated PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (Proxy Item No. 4) 


The Plan includes a fungible share pool whereby full value awards reduce shares available under the Plan by three shares. As 
such, a basic overhang calculation may be artificially high because it assumes all shares in the fungible share pool are awarded 
as stock options. Our historical grants have generally been evenly balanced between stock options and RSUs. Assuming 
approval of the amended and restated Plan, the estimated overhang would have been 7.6% as of March 1, 2024 based on the 
assumption that future awards continue to be provided evenly between stock options and RSUs. We anticipate that PepsiCo’s 
annual run rate will continue to be approximately 0.3%. These estimates of future overhang and run rate are based on the 
continuation of current grant levels and exercise patterns. 


As of March 1, 2024, and prior to the requested increase, 19 million shares remain available for issuance of future awards 
pursuant to the Plan. The following table provides information as of March 1, 2024 and after with respect to the shares of 
PepsiCo Common Stock that may be issued under the Plan including the additional shares that will be made available after 
the amendment. 


Number of shares 


(in millions) 
Shares available for future awards as of March 1, 2024 19 
Requested increase to shares available under the Plan pursuant to this amendment 75 
Total shares available for future awards assuming approval of the amendment 94 


The shares available for issuance under the Plan, assuming shareholder approval is obtained, are expected to last for the term 
of the Plan. However, expectations regarding future share usage could be impacted by a number of factors such as award type 
mix, hiring and promotion activity, rate at which shares are returned to Plan’s reserve upon awards’ expiration or forfeiture, 
future performance of our stock price, impacts of acquiring other companies, and other factors. While we believe that the 
assumptions we used are reasonable, future share usage may differ from current expectations. 


Key Provisions of the Plan 


The Plan includes a number of provisions that the Board believes serve the interests of shareholders, facilitate effective 
corporate governance, and demonstrate reasonable use of shares: 


= Fungible Share Pool. Shares issued in connection with PSUs, RSUs, and other “full value” stock awards count against the 
number of shares authorized for issuance under the Plan at a higher rate than shares issued upon exercise of stock options 
and Stock Appreciation Rights (“SARs’). 


= No Annual “Evergreen” Provision. The Plan authorizes a fixed number of shares of Pepsico Common Stock for grants and 
requires shareholder approval of any increase to that fixed number. 


= No Liberal Share Recycling. The Plan prohibits “net share counting”, meaning that any shares of PepsiCo Common Stock 
tendered or withheld to pay taxes for any award or an option’s exercise price are not available for re-issuance. Likewise, upon 
exercise of a stock-settled SAR, none of the shares associated with the SAR grant are available for re-issuance. 


= No Repricing of Stock Options or SARs. The Plan prohibits the repricing of stock options or SARs without shareholder 
approval either by amending an award agreement, by substitution of a new award at a lower exercise price, or by cancelling 
awards in exchange for cash or other securities. 


= No Discounted Stock Options or SARs. All stock options and SARs must have an exercise price equal to or greater than the fair 
market value of PepsiCo Common Stock on the date of grant. 


= No Reload Rights. No stock option granted under the Plan can entitle a participant to the automatic grant of additional stock 
options in connection with any exercise of the original stock option. 


= No Loans. The Plan prohibits loans from the Company to any participant. 


= Double Trigger Change in Control Requirement. In connection with a change in control of PepsiCo, a participant’s equity 
awards will be subject to accelerated vesting only if the participant is terminated without cause or resigns for good reason 
within two years following the change in control or if the acquiring entity fails to assume or replace the awards. 


= Minimum One-Year Vesting Period. All awards require a minimum of one year of service from the date of grant to vest. Only 
in the following limited circumstances are awards with a vesting period of less than one year permitted to be granted: 
(i) awards granted in the aggregate for up to five percent (5%) of the total shares of PepsiCo Common Stock available for 
issuance under the Plan, (ii) any rights to accelerated vesting in connection with a change of control of PepsiCo, the death, 
total disability, or retirement of a participant, and (iii) non-employee director phantom stock deferrals. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 87 


Approval of the Amended and Restated PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (Proxy Item No. 4) 


= No Dividend Payouts on Unvested PSUs and RSUs; No Dividend Equivalents on Options or SARs. Participants who hold PSUs 
or RSUs will have dividends accrued during the restriction period that will be distributed (without interest) only if and when 
the PSUs or RSUs vest. Accrued dividends are forfeited if the associated PSU or RSU is forfeited. No dividend equivalents may 
be paid under the Plan with respect to options or SARs. 


= Compensation Clawback. Awards under the Plan are subject to any clawback policy that the Company has in effect or may 
adopt in the future, including without limitation the PepsiCo, Inc. Compensation Recovery Policy for Covered Executives 
adopted in accordance with stock exchange listing requirements (or any successor policy). If an employee violates PepsiCo’s 
Global Code of Conduct, breaches our non-compete, non-solicitation or non-disclosure policies, or engages in gross 
misconduct, any award granted under the Plan (including any dividends, unvested dividends or dividend equivalents paid 
with respect thereto), any shares of PepsiCo Common Stock issued upon exercise or settlement thereof (including securities 
or other property received therefor), or any other proceeds from the exercise or settlement of awards or the sale of shares of 
PepsiCo Common Stock must be forfeited or reimbursed to the Company. 


= Independent Committee. The Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee, except as it relates to non-employee 
director awards, which the full Board administers. All of the members of the Compensation Committee qualify as 
independent under the SEC and Nasdaq rules. Equity award grants to executive officers are approved by a subcommittee 
of the Compensation Committee consisting entirely of non-employee directors, as that term is defined in Rule 16b-3 of the 
Exchange Act. 


= Limit on Non-Employee Director Awards. The Plan establishes a maximum amount of equity awards and cash retainers that 
may be granted to a non-employee director in any calendar year. 


= No transferability. Awards generally may not be transferred, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, unless the 
transfer is approved by the Compensation Committee and is for no consideration. 


Summary of the Plan 


The principal features of the Plan, as amended and restated, are summarized below. This summary is qualified by reference to 
the complete text of the Plan set forth in Appendix B to this Proxy Statement. 


Plan Administration. The Compensation Committee administers all aspects of the Plan, except for awards made to non- 
employee directors. The amount and terms of awards to non-employee directors are administered by the full Board. Each 
member of the Compensation Committee also meets the director independence criteria under the SEC and Nasdaq rules. 


The Compensation Committee has the authority to, among other things: 


= construe and interpret the Plan; 
= make rules and regulations relating to the administration of the Plan; 
= select participants and make awards; and 


establish the terms and conditions of awards. 


The Compensation Committee may delegate its authority to employees of the Company, including the authority to grant 
awards to employees who are not officers subject to Section 16 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. 


Awards. The Plan provides for the grant of non-qualified stock options, incentive stock options ("ISOs") that qualify under 
Section 422 of the Code, SARs, restricted shares, RSUs, performance shares, performance units, and stock awards, each as 
defined in the Plan. 


Eligibility. Any officer, employee, consultant, or advisor of PepsiCo or any of its subsidiaries or affiliated businesses is eligible 

for any type of award provided for under the Plan except that employees are not eligible for unrestricted stock awards. As of 
December 30, 2023, we had approximately 318,000 employees worldwide, 9 executive officers, 14 directors, and 0 consultant 
and advisor eligible to receive awards. The selection of participants and the nature and size of grants and awards are within the 
discretion of the Compensation Committee, subject to the limitations in the Plan. 


88 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Approval of the Amended and Restated PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (Proxy Item No. 4) 


Authorized Shares. The Plan maintains authority for the issuance of 270 million shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, plus any 
shares of PepsiCo Common Stock underlying awards previously granted under any prior plans that are cancelled or expired 
without the issuance of shares after the Plan first became effective on May 2, 2007. As of March 1, 2024, approximately 19 million 
shares remain available for future awards. 


Each share subject to a stock option or SAR award would reduce the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan 
by one share, and each share subject to a full value award would reduce the number of shares available for issuance by three 
shares. Full value awards consist of restricted or unrestricted stock or stock unit awards, including performance shares and 
performance units. 


If any award is forfeited or the award otherwise terminates without the issuance of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, 

the shares associated with the award will no longer be charged against the maximum share limitation and will again be 
available for future grants. These shares will return to the available share pool at the same ratio at which they were granted. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, shares withheld by or delivered to PepsiCo to satisfy the exercise or conversion price of an 
award or in payment of taxes will not again be available for future grants, and upon the exercise of a stock-settled SAR, the 
number of shares subject to the SAR will not again be available for future grants regardless of the actual number of shares 

of Pepsico Common Stock used to settle such SAR. In addition, awards that are settled in cash rather than shares of PepsiCo 
Common Stock and awards that may be granted in connection with the assumption or substitution of outstanding grants from 
an acquired or merged company do not count towards the total share limit. 


Award Limitations. The maximum number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock subject to stock options and SARs that can 
be granted to any individual during a calendar year cannot exceed 2 million shares. The maximum amount of awards other 
than stock options and SARs that can be granted to any individual, in the aggregate, during a calendar year cannot exceed 
$15 million (converted into a number of shares of Pepsico Common Stock based on the fair market value (the average of the 
high and low market prices) on the date of grant); provided that the maximum value of an award that may be granted to 
any individual for a performance period that is longer than one calendar or fiscal year shall not exceed the foregoing limit 
multiplied by the number of full calendar or fiscal years in the performance period. The shares of PepsiCo Common Stock 
issued may consist of authorized but unissued shares. 


Options. A stock option permits the participant to purchase shares of PepsiCo Common Stock at a specified price. Options 

may be granted alone or together with SARs. A stock option may be granted in the form of a non-qualified stock option or an 
ISO. No more than 270 million shares are available for the grant of ISOs. The price at which a share may be purchased under an 
option (the exercise price) may not be less than 100% of the fair market value (the average of the high and low market prices) of 
a share of PepsiCo Common Stock on the date the option is granted. The average of the high and low market prices of a share 
of PepsiCo Common Stock on March 1, 2024 was $164.25 per share. Except in the case of an adjustment related to a corporate 
transaction, the exercise price of a stock option may not be decreased after the date of grant and no outstanding option may 
be surrendered as consideration for the grant of a new option with a lower exercise price or in exchange for cash or other 
securities without shareholder approval. No dividends or dividend equivalents will be paid on stock options. 


The Compensation Committee may establish the term of each option, but no option will be exercisable after 10 years from 
the grant date; provided, however, that awards of non-qualified stock options or SARs covering up to 5 million shares, in the 
aggregate, may be issued with a term of up to 15 years. 


The amount of ISOs that become exercisable for the first time in a particular year by an individual participant cannot exceed 
$100,000 or such other amount as may subsequently be specified by the Code, determined using the fair market value of the 
shares on the date of grant. Non-employees are not eligible for ISOs. 


SARs. A SAR entitles the participant to receive a payment in shares of PepsiCo Common Stock and/or cash equal to the excess 
of the fair market value of PepsiCo Common Stock on the date the SAR is exercised over the SAR exercise price. SARs may be 
granted either alone or in tandem with stock options. The exercise price of a SAR must be equal to or greater than 100% of 

the fair market value of PepsiCo Common Stock on the date of grant. The Compensation Committee may establish the term 

of each SAR, but no SAR will be exercisable after 10 years from the grant date; provided, however, that awards of non-qualified 
stock options or SARs covering up to 5 million shares, in the aggregate, may be issued with a term of up to 15 years. Except in 
the case of an adjustment related to a corporate transaction, the exercise price of a SAR may not be decreased after the date of 
grant and no outstanding SAR may be surrendered as consideration for the grant of a new SAR with a lower exercise price or in 
exchange for cash or other securities without shareholder approval. No dividends or dividend equivalents will be paid on SARs. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 89 


Approval of the Amended and Restated PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (Proxy Item No. 4) 


Restricted Shares and RSUs. A restricted share is a share of PepsiCo Common Stock that is issued to a participant subject to 


vesting requirements. An RSU 


awards are de 
Th 
more perform 
shares of PepsiCo Com 
wi 
wi 
Co 
res 
de 
dis 


mpensation Comm 
triction period that 
termined by the Co 
tributed (without in 


Performance Awards and Performance Goals. Performance awards are awards conditioned on the achievemen 
goals set for a performance period. The Compen 
the performance period. The performance goals 
stock price, market share, sales revenue, cash flow, sales volume, earnings per share, return on equity, return on 
on sales, return on invested capita 
tribution, p 


productivity, brand con 


as acquisitions, disposit 
other performance me 


terms of objectives that are re 


division, department, region, funct 


the performance of other enti 


has the discretion to reduce any award paymen 


or a combination thereof. 


Stock Awards. Stock awards consist of vested sh 


awards may only be granted t 
to non-employee directors as 


Minimum Vesting Restriction and Performan 
not vest in full prior to the first anniversary of the grant date (except in 
retirement, death or total disability, or non-e 


covering up to 5% of the total 


Compensation Committee. 


Non-Employee Director Awards. Non-employee directors are eligible 
except ISOs. Such awards are administered by the Board of Directors. 
or awards denominated in shares of PepsiCo Common Stock that exceed in t 
year plus an additional $500,000 for one-time awards to newly appoin 
or awards denominated in cash, even if paid in shares of Pepsico Common S 
in value in any calendar year. For purposes of awards denominated in 


computed based on the gran 


Adjustments. In the event of a 


make adjustments to the number of authorized shares and the individual limi 


awards as it deems appropriat 


ions, or Cus 
tric as deter 


is the righ 


dition 


ance goals specified below under Performance Awards and Performance Goals. RS 
mon Stock, or a com 
| have no ownership interest in the sh 
th respect to such RSUs is actually made 
ittee, participants wh 


oh 


tee, 
en 


roduct quali 


mined by th 
lated 


ion, or busin 
ties. Notwithstan 


o eligible parti 


part of their one 


shares availab 


corporate transa 


e and equitable. 


Change in Control. In the event of a change in control of PepsiCo, all outstand 


, ECONOMIC va 


to the indivi 


the vesting of any restricted share or RSU grant on 


O 


R 
th 


SUs will accrue dividend equivalents during the restriction pe 
e RSUs vest. 


sation Committee determines the performance goal and the 
may be based on one or more of the following performance 


ue added, net 
ty, portfolio tran 


y with respect to awards granted on or after M 


e Compen 


ding thea 


ares of PepsiCo Common Stock that are not subject to a risk of 


-time initial grants. 


issued with a restriction period of less th 
nimum of one year unless otherwise de 


to recei 
onon 


ted or elected non-employee directors, 


cable financial accounting rules. 


ction that affects PepsiCo Com 


ing awards under the Plan that a 


the achievemen 
Us may be settled in cash, 
bination thereof, as determined by the Compensation Committee. Hol 
ares of PepsiCo Common Stock to which such RSUs relate unless and unti 


ve any type of award available un 
-employee director may be grant 
he aggregate $500,000 in value in 


tock, that exceed in the aggregate $500,0 
shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, the value sha 
t date fair value in accordance with appli 


mon Stock, the Compensation Commit 
tations set forth above and to the outstanding 


t granted to a participant to receive a share of Pepsico Common Stock and/or a cash 
payment based on the value of a share of PepsiCo Common Stock subject to vesting requirements. The restrictions on such 
termined by the Compensation Committee and may include service-based or performance-based restrictions. 


e Compensation Committee may con 


t of one or 


ders of RSUs 
payment 


in shares of PepsiCo Common Stock. Except as otherwise determined by the 

d restricted shares will have voting rights and dividends accrued during the 
will be distributed (without interest) only if and when the restricted shares vest. Except as o 
mpensation Commit 
terest) only ifand wh 


therwise 
riod that will be 


t of performance 
length of 
measures: 

assets, return 


earnings, total shareholder return, gross margin, costs, 
sformation, productivity improvement, corpora 
measures (such as compliance, safety, environmental, and personnel matters), or goals related to corporate init 
tomer satisfaction), and, sole 


te value 
iatives (such 
ay 1, 2024, any 


sation Committee. The performance measures may be described in 
dual participant or objectives that are Company-wide or related to a subsidiary, 
ess unit of the Company and may be expressed in absolute terms or relative to 
ttainment of any performance goal, the Compensation Committee 

t. Performance awards may be paid in cash, shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, 


forfeiture. Stock 


cipants who are consultants or advisors (i.e, non-employees) and may be granted 


ce Periods. Under the Plan, awards granted on or after May 1, 2024 generally may 
certain circumstances such as a change in control, 
mployee director phantom stock deferrals). Notwithstanding the foregoing, awards 
e under the Plan may be 
addition, the performance period for performance awards will be a mi 


an one year. In 
termined by the 


der 
ed (i 
any 
or (ii 


the Plan, 
any award 
calendar 
any award 
00 

| be 


tee will 


re assumed or 


replaced with equivalent awards by the successor corporation will remain outstanding and continue to be governed by their 


terms. If, within two years following a change in control, a participant is termin 


ated without cause or the participant resigns for 


good reason, then all such assumed or replaced awards held by the participant will immediately vest, any performance goals 


90 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Approval of the Amended and Restated PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (Proxy Item No. 4) 


will be deemed 100% achieved, the RSUs will become immediately payable, and the options and SARs will remain outstanding 
for their full term. If the surviving corporation fails to assume the outstanding awards under the Plan or substitute equivalent 


awards, then all such outstanding 
100% achieved upon the change 
for a payment to the participants 


awards will vest, all restrictions will lapse and any performance goals will be deemed 
in control, and the Board may provide for the cancellation of such awards in exchange 
that is at least equal to the excess (if any) of the consideration that would be received in 


the change in control by the holders of PepsiCo Common Stock over the exercise or purchase price (if any) for such awards. 


wu “ 


“Change in control,” “cause,” and 
different change in control trea 


Clawback. The Plan permits the clawback of awards in the event it 


good reason” are defined in Sec 
tment for awards. 


tion 11(b) of the Plan. Award agreements may provide 


is determined that the participant has (i) made unauthorized 


use or disclosure of confidential information or trade secrets of the Company, (ii) breached any contract with or violated any 
obligation to the Company, (iii) engaged in unlawful trading in the securities of PepsiCo or of another company based on 


information gained as a result of employment or relationship with 


or engaged in any activi 


the Company, (iv) committed a felony or other serious crime 
ty which constitutes gross misconduct, (v) breached the non-compete, non-solicitation, or other 


restrictive covenants as provided in applicable award agreements, on the part of an individual participant, or (vi) violated any 


Company compensation 


n the event clawback is 


including securities or o 


individual executive. 


Effective Date, Term, Amendment, and Termination. The Plan, as amended an 


clawback policy applicable. 


triggered, any award granted under 
equivalents paid with respect thereto), any shares of PepsiCo Comm 
ther property received therefor), or any other proceeds from the exercise or settlem 


the sale of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock must be forfeited or reimbursed to th 


n addition, current and former executive officers are subject to the 
Policy for Covered Executives, which requires recovery of incentive-based compen 
event of an accounting adjustment to the Company's financial resul 
restatement. Erroneous payments must be recovered even if there was no m 


the Plan (including an 
on Stock issue 


terms of the PepsiCo, Inc. Compensation 


y dividends, unvested dividends or dividend 


d upon exercise or settlement thereof 


e Company. 


Recovery 
sation erroneously received in the 


ts received in the three years prior to the accounting 
isconduct or failure of oversigh 


on February 7, 2024 subject to shareholder approval at the May 1, 2024 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Company 


and has a term of ten years expiring on May 1, 2034. 1 
t or termination may adversely affect awards gran 
applicable law or stock exchan 


Plan at any time, but no such amen 
or amendment except to the exten 


dmen 
tnece 


ssary Or appropriate to comply with 


[he Board or Compensation Committee may terminate or amend the 


ted prior to such termination 


regulations. Without the prior approval of PepsiCo’s shareholders, no amendment may (i) increase the number of author 
shares or the maximum individual award 


adjustment provisions of the Plan), 


of awards that can be made, (iv) to the ex 


performance awards are earned, (v 
of any option or SAR to less than th 


Limitations on Transfer. Un 


nontransferable other than, upon a participant's death, by will, or the laws of descen 
Committee has the discretion to permit the transfer of an award only to a participan 


payment of any consideration. 


Other Provisions. The Compensation Committee may determine that an award, whe 
nation thereof, may be deferred and may approve deferral elections made by participants in 


Common Stock, or a combi 


ess otherwise determined by the Compensation Commit 


imitations (except to the extent such amendment is made pursuan 
ii) extend the maximum period during which awards may be granted, (iii 


add to the 


compliance with Section 409A of the Code. No loans from PepsiCo to participants will be permitted under the Plan. 


U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences 


ge rules and 
ized 
t to the equitable 


ent of awards or 


t on the part of the 


d restated, was adopted by the Board of Directors 


types 


tent permitted by the Plan, change the performance measures pursuant to which 

modify the requirements as to eligibility for participation, (vi) decrease th 
e fair market value on the grant date, or (vii) amend the Plan in a manner that requires 
shareholder approval pursuant to the Plan, applicable law, or the rules of Nasdaq. 


e exercise price 


tee, awards granted under the Plan are 
t and distribution. The Compensation 
t's immediate family member without the 


ther made in cash, shares of PepsiCo 


The following is a general summary of certain U.S. federal income tax consequences of awards made under the Plan, based upon 
the laws in effect on the date hereof, and is intended for the information of shareholders considering how to vote with respect 

to the proposal. It is not intended as tax guidance to participants in the Plan. The discussion does not take into account a number 
of considerations which may apply in light of the circumstances of a particular participant under the Plan. The income tax 
consequences under applicable foreign, state, and local tax laws may not be the same as under U.S. federal income tax laws. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 91 


Approval of the Amended and Restated PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (Proxy Item No. 4) 


Non-Qualified Stock Options ("NQSQs") and SARs. A participant will not recognize taxable income at the time of grant of a 
NQSO or SAR, and PepsiCo will not be entitled to a tax deduction at such time. A participant will recognize compensation 
taxable as ordinary income (and subject to income tax withholding in respect of an employee), upon exercise of a NOQSO, 
equal to the excess of the fair market value of the shares of PepsiCo Common Stock purchased over their exercise price and, 
upon exercise of a SAR, equal to the fair market value of any shares of PepsiCo Common Stock delivered or cash paid. PepsiCo 
will generally be entitled to a corresponding U.S. federal income tax deduction at the same time the participant recognizes 
ordinary income. 


ISOs. A participant will not recognize taxable income at the time of grant of an ISO or (except for purposes of the alternative 
minimum tax) upon exercise of an ISO. If the shares of Pepsico Common Stock acquired by exercise of an ISO are held for 
the longer of two years from the date the option was granted and one year from the date the option was exercised, any 
gain or loss arising from a subsequent disposition of such shares will be taxed as long-term capital gain or loss, and PepsiCo 
will not be entitled to any deduction. If, however, such shares are disposed of within two years from the date the option was 
granted or one year from the date the option was exercised, then in the year of such disposition the participant will recognize 
compensation taxable as ordinary income equal to the excess of the lesser of the amount realized upon such disposition and 
the fair market value of such shares on the date of exercise over the exercise price, and PepsiCo generally will be entitled to a 
corresponding U.S. federal income tax deduction. 


Other Awards. For other awards authorized under the Plan, a participant will generally recognize compensation taxable as 
ordinary income (i) at the time restrictions on restricted shares lapse in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value 
of the shares of PepsiCo Common Stock at such time over the amount, if any, paid for the shares; (ii) at the time of settlement 

of RSUs in an amount equal to the fair market value of any shares of PepsiCo Common Stock delivered or cash paid by PepsiCo, 
and (iii) at the time of grant of a nonforfeitable stock award, in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of PepsiCo 
Common Stock at such time. PepsiCo will generally be entitled to a corresponding U.S. federal income tax deduction at the 
same time the participant recognizes ordinary income, except to the extent the deduction limits of Section 162(m) of the Code 
apply for awards granted on or before November 2, 2017. 


Section 162(m) Limit. Any deduction available to the Company will be subject to the limitations of Code Section 162(m). 


Section 409A. Acceleration of income, additional taxes, and interest apply to nonqualified deferred compensation that is not 
exempt from or compliant with Section 409A of the Code. It is intended that awards granted under the Plan will be exempt 
from, or satisfy the requirements of, Section 409A and any regulations or guidance that may be adopted thereunder from time 
to time. 


Plan Benefits 


Future benefits under the Plan are not currently determinable. However, current benefits granted to executive officers, all 
other employees, and non-employee directors would not have been increased if they had been made following shareholder 
approval of the amendment to the Plan. 


The 2023 Summary Compensation Table and the 2023 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table appearing elsewhere in this Proxy 
Statement show the awards under the Plan that were made to the Named Executive Officers in 2023. Current executive officers 
as a group (excluding NEOs) were not awarded any stock options in 2023 while employees other than the executive officers 
were awarded 2,161,541 stock options in 2023. During 2023, non-employee directors received awards under the Plan described 
in the “2023 Director Compensation” section beginning on page 44 of this Proxy Statement. 


92 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Approval of the Amended and Restated PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (Proxy Item No. 4) 


Shares Underlying Stock Options 
Granted Since Adoption of Plan 
Through December 30, 2023 


Ramon L. Laguarta, Chairman of the Board and CEO, PepsiCo 


50,335 


Jamie Caulfield, EVP and CFO, PepsiCo 


57,205 


Steven Williams, CEO, PENA 


31,005 


Kirk Tanner, CEO, PBNA 


3,349 


Silviu Popovici, CEO, Europe 


Hugh Johnston, Former Vice Chairman, EVP and CFO, PepsiCo 


209,744 


Executive officers as a group (excluding NEOs) 


146,890 


Non-executive officer employees as a group 


74,781,043 


No stock options have been granted under the Plan to any current directors or nominees who are not executive officers or to 
any associates of any of such directors, nominees, or executive officers. No person has been granted stock options to receive 


five percent or more of the shares issuable under the Plan. 


Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “FOR” the amended and restated 
PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 93 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


Shareholders have submitted the following proposals for the reasons stated. The shareholder proposals will be voted on at 

our 2024 Annual Meeting if properly presented by the shareholder proponent or by a qualified representative on behalf of 

the shareholder proponent. In accordance with federal securities regulations, we have included the shareholder proposals, 
including any supporting statements, as submitted by the shareholder proponents. We do not believe that certain assertions in 
these shareholder proposals about PepsiCo are correct. We have not attempted to refute all of these inaccuracies. However, our 
Board of Directors has recommended a vote against each of these proposals for the reasons set forth following each proposal. 


Shareholder Proposal - Shareholder Ratification of Excessive 
Golden Parachutes (Proxy Item No. 5) 


John Chevedden, on behalf of Kenneth Steiner, 14 Stoner Avenue, 2M, Great Neck, NY 11021, the beneficial owner for at least 
three years of at least 500 shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, has submitted the following proposal: 


Proposal 5 - Shareholder Ratification of Excessive Golden Parachutes 


~) +e S. hareholder 
Rights 


Shareholders request that the Board adopt a policy to seek shareholder approval of senior managers’ new or renewed 
pay package that provides for golden parachute payments with an estimated value exceeding 2.99 times the sum of the 
executive's base salary plus target short-term bonus. This proposal only applies to Section 16 Officers. 


The Board shall retain the option to seek shareholder approval at an annual meeting after material terms are agreed upon. 


Generous performance-based pay can sometimes be justified but shareholder ratification of “golden parachute” severance 
packages with a total cost exceeding 2.99 times base salary plus target short-term bonus better aligns management pay with 
shareholder interests. 


This proposal is relevant even if there are current golden parachute limits. A limit on golden parachutes is like a speed limit. 
A speed limit by itself does not guarantee that the speed limit will never be exceeded. Like this proposal the rules associated 
with a speed limit provide consequences if the limit is exceeded. With this proposal the consequences are a non-binding 
shareholder vote is required for unreasonably high golden parachutes. 


This proposal places no limit on long-term equity pay or any other type pay. This proposal thus has no impact on the ability 
to attract executive talent or discourage the use of long-term equity pay because it places no limit on golden parachutes. It 
simply requires that extra large golden parachutes be subject to anon binding shareholder vote at a shareholder meeting 
already scheduled for other matters. 


This proposal is relevant because the annual say on executive pay vote does not have a separate section for approving or 
rejecting golden parachutes. 


The topic of this proposal received between 51% and 65% support at: 


FedEx 
Spirit AeroSystems 
Alaska Air 
Fiserv 
Please vote yes: 
Shareholder Ratification of Excessive Golden Parachutes - Proposal 5 


(x) Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


94 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


The Board has carefully considered this proposal and has determined that the implementation of this policy is unnecessary 
and unwarranted given the existing governance safeguards embedded in our executive compensation programs, including 
the Company's policy to seek shareholder ratification of cash severance payments in certain circumstances, and is not in the 
best interests of PepsiCo or our shareholders. 


The Compensation Committee has adopted a cash severance policy whereby the Company will not enter into any 
new separation arrangements with Section 16 Officers (“executive officers”) where the value of cash severance 
benefits exceeds 2.99 times the sum of the executive's base salary plus target annual incentive, without seeking 
shareholder ratification. 


The cash severance policy adopted by the Compensation Committee already provides for the Company to seek shareholder 
ratification in appropriate circumstances. The policy generally provides that PepsiCo will not enter into any new separation 
arrangements with executive officers where the value of cash severance benefits (as defined in the policy) exceeds 2.99 times 
the sum of the executive's base salary plus target annual incentive, without seeking non-binding shareholder ratification. 


The Board believes that this policy provides appropriate protection against excessive payouts, while providing the 
Compensation Committee with flexibility to tailor compensation arrangements, which may include severance provisions, 
allowing PepsiCo to maintain a competitive advantage to attract and retain highly qualified talent. 


PepsiCo does not maintain formal programs or policies that guarantee severance to executive officers and over 
the past decade, no executive officers have received a severance arrangement exceeding 2.99 times the sum of 
base salary plus target annual incentive. 


None of our executive officers has an employment agreement, separation, or cash change in control agreement in place. 
Executive officers are not guaranteed a severance benefit or eligible for continued access to health and welfare benefits 
under a formal program in the event of involuntary termination, consistent with our approach of rewarding performance 
and not guaranteeing employment. 


Such benefits, if delivered at all, are determined based on a facts-and-circumstances evaluation by the Compensation 
Committee at the time of separation from service. Over the past decade, no executive officers have received a severance 
arrangement valued in excess of 2.99 times the sum of base salary plus target annual incentive. 


Shareholders also have the opportunity to express views on PepsiCo’s compensation practices through our annual advisory 
vote on executive compensation. Over the past decade, shareholders have demonstrated strong support for our executive 
compensation programs with approximately 92% of votes cast annually on average in favor of our advisory resolution. 


The proposal introduces additional restrictions for the Board and its Compensation Committee to structure effective 
pay programs, elevating the risk of impairing our pay-for-performance philosophy and employee value proposition. 


The Board believes that its Compensation Committee, composed entirely of independent directors, is best suited to develop 
and design executive compensation programs to align executive officers’ interests with those of shareholders in accordance 
with our core compensation principles outlined on page 51 of this Proxy Statement. Introducing additional restrictions 
through the proposal may limit the Compensation Committee's ability to perform its duties and to be agile, undermining 
the diverse expertise of its directors, each of whom is elected by shareholders. 


In the view of the Board, the Compensation Committee should retain the flexibility to evaluate and approve compensation 
arrangements. This is especially important in the context of operating as a multinational organization with executive officers 
situated across different geographies, subject to various jurisdictions and regulatory complexities. Furthermore, the inclusion 
of equity-based compensation in the proposed policy could impair PepsiCo’s ability to successfully make leadership 
transitions under ordinary course exit situations and could foster substantial management instability or limit the ability to 
leverage severance agreements as an effective legal risk mitigation tool, when needed. 


The proposal conflicts with features of our Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), which has been approved by 
shareholders. The design of our LTIP is consistent with best market practices, including double trigger change in 
control vesting for all participants holding outstanding equity awards granted under the LTIP. 


In the event that severance triggered by a change in control is subject to the proposed policy, there would be a direct 
conflict with the shareholder-approved LTIP. As ratified by a majority of shareholders in 2016, PepsiCo’s LTIP expressly 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 95 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


incorporates a double trigger change in control provision. In connection with a change in control of PepsiCo, a participant's 
outstanding equity awards will be subject to accelerated vesting only if the participant is terminated without cause or 
resigns for good reason within two years following the change in control or if the acquirer fails to assume the awards. 


This is a widely recognized best practice approach that ensures that executive officers holding LTIP awards are treated fairly, 
thereby supporting talent retention and performance motivation objectives, and that the implication for shareholders is 
balanced and appropriate. 


Given our historical pay practices and strong governance safeguards already embedded in our executive compensation 
programs, including the Company's policy to seek shareholder approval of severance payments in certain circumstances, 
the Board does not believe the proposed policy would be beneficial to shareholders. PepsiCo provides responsible, 
appropriate, and market-standard executive compensation programs to ensure best-in-class talent remains motivated to 
foster the creation of sustainable long-term shareholder value. 


Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


Shareholder Proposal - Report on Gender-Based Compensation 
Gaps and Associated Risks (Proxy Item No. 6) 


National Legal and Policy Center, 107 Park Washington Court, Falls Church, VA 22046, the beneficial owner for at least three 
years of 33.969 shares of Pepsico Common Stock, has submitted the following proposal: 


Gender-Based Compensation Gaps and Associated Risks 


WHEREAS: Compensation and benefits inequities persist across employee gender categories, and pose substantial risk to 
companies and society at large. 


The United States Department of Labor states that “equal pay” is required if persons of different genders “perform equal work in 
the same workplace,” and that “all forms of compensation are covered, meaning not only pay, but also benefits.”' The U.S. Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission adds: 


It is illegal for an employer to discriminate against an employee in the payment of wages or employee benefits on the bases of race, color, 
religion, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation, and pregnancy), national origin, age (40 or older), disability or genetic information. 
Employee benefits include sick and vacation leave, insurance, access to overtime as well as overtime pay, and retirement programs. 


SUPPORTING STATEMENT: PepsiCo, Inc. (“Company”) provides health benefits to employees who suffer gender dysphoria/ 
confusion, and who seek medical, chemical, and/or surgical treatments to aid their “transition” to their non-biological sex.? The 
Company boasts about its 100 percent score on the Human Rights Campaign's Corporate Equality Index and HRC’s designation 
as a “Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality,” and has “made a series of benefit coverage enhancements that align with the 
clinical guidelines outlined in the World Professional Association of Transgender Health Standards of Care.” 


Company policy affirms it is possible for dysphoria sufferers to transition to a different sex. Yet an increasing body of scientific 
evidence shows no benefits result from such medical treatments.° In the United States and Europe, the medical community is 
increasingly cautious about transitioning therapies.°’ 


Victims report transition treatments and surgeries are harmful. Examples include long-lasting or permanent outcomes 

ike chronic pain, sexual dysfunction, unwanted hair loss or hair gain, menstrual irregularities, urinary problems, and other 
omplications.’ Rather than resolve health problems, “gender affirming” therapies instead often exacerbate them.?In such 
instances, those who desire to “detransition” cannot find medical care or insurance coverage, and are permanently mutilated.'° 
any of these sufferers litigate against those who misled and/or harmed them"! 


a 


HRC contemplates no accommodations for detransitioners or restorative health care for such individuals - instead, it denies 
there is need for such care.'* Hence, the CEl-perfect Company appears to offer no such insurance coverage in its employee 
benefits - only for so-called “gender-affirming care.” Detransitioners are protected under “gender identity” and “sexual 
orientation” EEOC categories and therefore cannot be discriminated against. 


96 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


RESOLVED: Shareholders request the board of directors issue a report by Dec. 31, 2024 about compensation and health 
benefit gaps, which should include how they address dysphoria and de-transitioning care across gender classifications, 
including associated reputational, competitive, operational and litigative risks, and risks related to recruiting and retaining 
diverse talent. The report should be prepared at reasonable cost, omitting proprietary and private information, litigation 
strategy and legal compliance information. 


'  https://www.employer.gov/Employmentlssues/pay-and-benefits/Equal-pay/. 


N 
a) 


ps://www.eeoc.gov/prohibited-employment-policiespractices. 


ws 
Da 


ps://stories.pepsicojobs.com/blog/2022/03/30/transgender-visibility/ 


ps://www.pepsico.com/our-stories/story/how-pepsico-drives-a-culture-of-inclusion-for-Igbtq-associates. 
ps://www.foxnews.com/politics/crenshaw-grills-dem-witness-failure-name-one-study-citing-benefits-surgeries-trans-kids. 
ps://www.wsj.com/articles/second-thoughts-on-gender-affirming-care-american-academy-pediatrics-doctors-review-medicine-a7 173276 
ps://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-becomes-transgender-care-outlier-as-more-in-europe-urge-caution-6c70b5e0. 
ps://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-11629421/Half-trans-surgery-patients-suffer-extreme-pain-sexual-issues-years-later.html. 
ps://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-12250695/1-trans-surgery-woman-19-four-years-later-Im-man.html 
ps://thefederalist.com/2023/02/10/detransitioners-are-being-abandoned-by-medical-professionals-who-devastated-their-bodies-and-minds/ 
ps://public.substack.com/p/why-this-detransitioner-is-suing. 


ps://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-12310887/Young-North-Carolina-woman-sues-doctors-testosterone-age-17-saying-needed-therapy-not- 
ouble-mastectomy-latest-blockbuster-detransition-lawsuit.html 


ey 
=o > a a ae a a a a a | 


ps://www.hrc.org/resources/myths-and-facts-battling-disinformation-about-transgender-rights 


(x) Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


After careful consideration, the Board has determined that it would not be in the best interests of PepsiCo or our 
shareholders to conduct an analysis and issue a report on the risks associated with compensation and health benefit gaps, 
including a specific analysis of how dysphoria and de-transitioning care across gender classifications are addressed. PepsiCo 
already maintains, and annually reports on, our comprehensive pay equity process for managing pay programs that ensure 
pay equity across employee groups and we also provide a broad range of health and wellbeing benefits to support our 
associates and their families. 


The future success of PepsiCo depends on our ability to hire and retain the most talented people and we believe that our 
strong employee compensation and benefits programs improves our ability to meet this goal. We regularly evaluate the design 
of our compensation and benefits programs to ensure we are addressing our employees’ needs. If, at any point, we determine 
there is an area of need among employees, we analyze and revise our compensation and benefits policies, as appropriate. 


PepsiCo provides comprehensive health and wellbeing benefits to support our employees’ physical, emotional 
and financial wellbeing. 


We offer a comprehensive and highly competitive suite of health, wellbeing and retirement benefits intended to support 
our employees in both their personal and professional lives, enabling employees and their families to safeguard their 
physical, emotional and financial health, and to bring their best selves to work. PepsiCo provides benefits programs that are 
expansive and inclusive to address the needs of that diverse workforce. In the U.S., benefits include, but are not limited to, 
medical benefits, comprehensive reproductive health benefits, in-person and virtual mental health support, paid vacation, 
paid sick leave and paid time off for new parents. 


PepsiCo has a robust global annual pay equity review process in place, and we already provide annual reporting 
disclosing the results of such review. 


As part of our pept (PepsiCo Positive) ambition, we maintain a robust, long-standing and comprehensive global pay equity 
process for managing pay programs that helps ensure pay equity across employee groups. We implemented this robust 
global pay equity review process when we signed the White House Equal Pay Pledge in 2016, and we have been reporting 
on the results from that process annually since then. As of 2023, we had implemented this process in 71 countries 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 97 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


that collectively make up more than 99% of our salaried employee population. Our latest results showed that among this 
population, women and men are paid within 1% (based on base compensation) of each other and in the U.S. people of 
color (Hispanic, Black and Asian) are paid within 1% (based on base compensation) of non-minorities, after controlling for 
legitimate drivers of pay such as job level, geographic location and performance ratings. 


We believe the reporting called for in this proposal is unnecessary and not a good use of Company resources. 


We believe the requested report about compensation and health benefit gaps, including a specific analysis of how 
dysphoria and de-transitioning care across gender classifications are addressed, and associated “reputational, competitive, 
operational and litigative risks, and risks related to recruiting and retaining diverse talent” is unnecessary given we already 
report annually on pay equity and provide comprehensive health and wellbeing benefits. Furthermore, it is not clear what 
additional data could be analyzed to assess the risks identified in the requested report as we already have processes in place 
to evaluate and make changes to our compensation and benefits programs, as necessary. 


Given our commitment to hiring and retaining the most talented people, our highly competitive compensation programs, 
our robust global pay equity review process and our comprehensive healthcare benefits and polices, we believe that the 
cost of creating and publishing the requested report would not be a worthwhile use of Company resources. 


Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


Shareholder Proposal - Director Election Resignation Bylaw 
(Proxy Item No. 7) 


Gary Perinar, as fund trustee of the Mid-America Carpenters Pension Fund, 12 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois 60611, the 
beneficial owner for at least one year of at least 33,126 shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, has submitted the following proposal: 


Director Election Resignation Bylaw Proposal: 


Resolved: That the shareholders of PepsiCo, Inc. (“Company”) hereby request that the board of directors take the necessary 
action to adopt a director election resignation bylaw that requires each director nominee to submit an irrevocable conditional 
resignation to the Company to be effective upon the director's failure to receive the required shareholder majority vote 
support in an uncontested election. The proposed resignation bylaw shall require the Board to accept a tendered resignation 
absent the finding of a compelling reason or reasons to not accept the resignation. Further, if the Board does not accept a 
tendered resignation and the director remains as a “holdover” director, the resignation bylaw shall stipulate that should a 
“holdover” director fail to be re-elected at the next annual election of directors, that director's new tendered resignation will be 
automatically effective 30 days after the certification of the election vote. The Board shall report the reasons for its actions to 
accept or reject a tendered resignation in a Form 8-K filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 


Supporting Statement: The Proposal requests that the Board establish a director resignation bylaw to enhance director 
accountability. The Company has established in its bylaws a majority vote standard for use in an uncontested director election, 
an election in which the number of nominees equal the number of open board seats. Under applicable state corporate law, a 
director's term extends until his or her successor is elected and qualified, or until he or she resigns or is removed from office. 
Therefore, an incumbent director who fails to receive the required vote for election under a majority vote standard continues 
to serve as a“holdover” director until the next meeting of shareholders. A Company governance policy currently addresses the 
continued status of an incumbent director who fails to be re-elected by requiring such director to tender his or her resignation 
for Board consideration. 


The new director resignation bylaw will set a more demanding standard of review for addressing director resignations then that 
contained in the Company's resignation governance policy. The resignation bylaw will require the reviewing directors to articulate 
a compelling reason or reasons for not accepting a tendered resignation and allowing an un-elected director to continue to serve 
as a “holdover” director. Importantly, if a director's resignation is not accepted and he or she continues as a “holdover” director but 
again fails to be elected at the next annual meeting of shareholders, that director's new tendered resignation will be automatically 
effective 30 days following the election vote certification. While providing the Board latitude to accept or not accept the initial 
resignation of an incumbent director that fails to receive majority vote support, the amended bylaw will establish the shareholder 


98 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


vote as the final word when a continuing “holdover” director is not re-elected. The Proposal’s enhancement of the director 
resignation process will establish shareholder voting in director elections as a more consequential governance right. 


(x) Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


After careful consideration, the Board has determined that the action requested by the shareholder proposal is neither 
necessary nor in the best interests of PepsiCo or our shareholders. The Board believes the existing director resignation policy 
contained in PepsiCo’s Corporate Governance Guidelines already provides meaningful consequences when a director fails to 
receive a majority vote and effectively addresses the underlying concerns of the proposal. 


Since PepsiCo first adopted its current majority vote and director resignation policy, no director has failed to receive 
support from a majority of the votes cast. Indeed, as a testament to the caliber of our director slate and the Board's careful 
consideration of its nominees, our shareholders elected all members of our Board of Directors by votes greater than 91% of 
the votes cast in the last ten years. 


PepsiCo’s current director resignation policy already provides for an effective process for securing and acting on 
an irrevocable resignation offer from a director who fails to receive a majority shareholder vote. 


The Board values the input of our shareholders and believes that it is essential for shareholders to have a critical role in the 
election of directors. As described in the “Director Election Requirements and Majority-Vote Policy” section of this Proxy 
Statement on page 12, all members of PepsiCo’s Board are elected annually by our shareholders by a majority of the votes 
cast in an uncontested election, meaning that the number of votes cast “for” a director must exceed the number of votes 
cast “against” that director in order to elect the director to the Board. 


If a director nominee in an uncontested election who is an incumbent director receives more votes “against” than votes “for” 
election, our director resignation policy set forth in PepsiCo's Corporate Governance Guidelines provides that he or she must 
make an irrevocable resignation offer to the Board. The Nominating and Corporate Governance (“NCG") Committee will 
make a recommendation to the Board on such resignation offer, and the independent members of the Board must act on 
the NCG Committee's recommendation within 90 days following the certification of the shareholder vote. 


= 


fed) 


In deciding the action to be taken with respect to any resignation offer, the policy As part of the Board's careful 
provides that the independent members of the Board wvill limit their consideration consideration of the shareholder 
to determining what is in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders. proposal and to be responsive to 
In doing so, the Board will consider all relevant factors, including, but not limited to: | the theoretical concern raised in 
the proposal about directors failing 
to receive majority support for 
= any stated reasons why shareholders voted against such director; multiple years, the Board amended 
= any alternatives for curing the underlying cause of the “against” votes; the Corporate Governance 
Guidelines earlier in 2024 to 
explicitly state that the Board will 
consider the level of shareholder 
= the overall composition of the Board. support the director has received in 
prior elections. 


= the level of shareholder support the director has received in prior elections; 


= the director's tenure and qualifications; 
= the director's past and expected future contributions to the Company; and 


Our policy allows the Board to consider whether accepting the resignation offer would cause the Company to be in 
violation of its constituent documents or fail to meet any applicable regulatory or contractual requirements or impair the 
effective functioning of the Board due to the sudden loss of a unique qualification or expertise. 


The director resignation policy further provides that a director who offers to resign pursuant to this policy may not be 
present during the deliberations or voting by the NCG Committee or the Board as to whether to recommend or accept 
the resignation offer, and that the Company will promptly disclose publicly in a document furnished or filed with the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission the decision on such resignation offer and the basis for the decision. 


Accordingly, PepsiCo’s current policy already provides for an irrevocable resignation offer from a director who fails to receive 
a majority vote and ensures that the independent members of the Board act in a timely and transparent manner in response 
to that resignation offer, while providing appropriate flexibility for the independent members of the Board to consider the 
resignation offer in the broader context to arrive at a decision that is in the best interests of PepsiCo and its shareholders. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 99 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


The Board has a robust director selection, nomination, and evaluation process, and as a testament to the caliber 
of our Board, our director nominees have historically received high support from shareholders. 


Our Board has a robust director selection, nomination and evaluation process designed to provide for a well-qualified Board, 
with the diversity, experience and background to be effective and to provide strong oversight. As stated in the Corporate 
Governance Guidelines, the Board does not believe that renomination of incumbent board members should be an 
automatic exercise. That mindset has supported regular Board refreshment, with six new director nominees since 2019. 


PepsiCo further has a longstanding practice of regularly engaging with our shareholders year-round and such engagement 
program serves as a key vehicle through which investor perspectives, including those related to directors, are heard 
and addressed. 


As a testament to the strength of our director slate, our shareholders elected all members of our Board of Directors by votes 
greater than 91% of the votes cast in the last ten years. 


Therefore, given our existing director resignation policy that requires a director who fails to receive a majority shareholder 
vote to submit an irrevocable resignation offer that the Board must act on in a timely manner, coupled with our strong 
director nomination and election processes that provide for rigorous review of director candidate attributes and 
contributions, our Board believes that the adoption of the proposal is unnecessary and is not in the best interests of 

our shareholders. 


Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


Shareholder Proposal - Third-Party Assessment on Non-Sugar 
Sweetener Risks (Proxy Item No. 8) 
The Sisters of the Sorrowful Mother International Finance, Inc., 8858 N. 60th Street, Brown Deer, WI 53223, and other co-filers, 


each the beneficial owner for at least three years of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock worth at least $2,000, has submitted the 
following proposal: 


RESOLVED, 


Shareholders of PepsiCo, Inc. (“PepsiCo”) request the Board of Directors issue a third party assessment by November 1, 2024, at 
reasonable expense and excluding proprietary information, on PepsiCo’s efforts to assess and mitigate potential health harms 
associated with the use of non-sugar sweeteners ("NSS"). 


The report should cover how PepsiCo evaluates potential health impacts of NSS in its products, including the safety authorities 
relied upon for NSS guidance, and PepsiCo’s affiliation with and/or financial support of researchers or research institutions, 
international agencies, or reporting/regulatory bodies studying or making health or safety recommendations about NSS. 


WHEREAS, 


The Access to Nutrition Initiative Global Index 2022 ranked PepsiCo’'s product profile 7th among 11 food and beverage 
companies with a Healthy Score Rating of 2.2 out of 5. 


[he World Health Organization (WHO) recently recommended “against the use of NSS to control body weight or reduce the 
risk of noncommunicable diseases.” Based on a 2022 meta-analysis, this report demonstrated the “use of NSS does not confer 
any long-term benefit in reducing body fat in adults or children” and suggests that there “may be potential undesirable effects 
from long-term use of NSS, such as an increased risk of type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and mortality in adults”, 
PepsiCo's Chief Financial Officer responded to WHO's 2023 Warning that aspartame is a possible carcinogen by stating there are 
no intentions to change PepsiCo’s product portfolio.? 


The International Agency for Research on Cancer recently classified Aspartame - prominently used as an NSS in PepsiCo low- 
and no-sugar beverages - as “possibly carcinogenic to humans.” 


A British Medical Journal study warned that NSS “should not be considered a healthy or safe alternative to sugar"* A 2021 study 
noted that the combination of Aspartame and sweetener acesulfame-K, both contained in Pepsi Zero, has been shown to 
increase DNA damaging activity, the risk of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases.° 


100 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


A 2022 Rudd Center Report found that PepsiCo disproportionately targeted Hispanic and Black youth in the United States when 
marketing high calorie, low nutrient products. 


The 2022 report documented that: 


e Out of 19 Food & Beverage companies, PepsiCo spent the most on TV advertising; 
e PepsiCo spent the most on Black-targeted TV channels ($12.1 million) in 2021; and 


e While PepsiCo reduced their overall advertising spend, PepsiCo increased their advertising spend on Spanish language TV 
channels by 86% in 2021, when compared to 2017° 


Black consumers are 60% more likely to be diagnosed with diabetes than non-Hispanic whites, so PepsiCo’s advertising strategy 
targets a vulnerable population further, by recommending potentially harmful NSS as the healthier choice’. 


“pep+ (PepsiCo Positive) is the future of our company,” says PepsiCo Chairman. Positive change for the planet and 
people requires PepsiCo to assess their use of NSS and its impact on their consumers’ health, to safeguard PepsiCo's long 
term sustainability. 


ps://www.who.int/news/item/15-05-2023-who-advises-not-to-use-non-sugar-sweeteners-for-weight-control-in-newly-released-guideline 
ps:/www.reuters.com/business/retail-consumer/pepsico-says-no-plans-change-portfolio-who-set-warn-aspartame-sweeteners-2023-07-13 
ps://www.iarc.who.int/news-events/aspartame-hazard-and-risk-assessment-results-released/ 
ps://www.bmj.com/content/378/bmj-2022-071204 

ps://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8227014/# 
ps://uconnruddcenter.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/2909/2022/11/Rudd-Targeted-Marketing-Report-2022.pdf 
ps://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/browse.aspx?lvl=4&lvlid=18 


s 
SS = ae ee Oe 


(x) Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


After careful consideration, the Board has determined that issuing a third-party assessment on PepsiCo's efforts to assess 
and mitigate potential health harms associated with the use of non-sugar sweeteners is not in the best interests of PepsiCo 
or our shareholders, as it would be unnecessary and inefficient, particularly in view of the comprehensive safety assessments 
carried out by regulatory food safety bodies for these ingredients. A third-party assessment would not produce information 
that would be new or useful for PepsiCo, our employees or our shareholders. 


As one of the world’s largest beverages and convenient foods companies, PepsiCo embraces the role it can play in helping 
to promote a balanced diet that supports health and wellness, and we have long been committed to being a part of the 
solution to the complex issue of the role of diet in obesity and undernutrition. Reformulation to reduce added sugars in our 
beverage products has been a core element of our sustainability agenda since its inception. 


PepsiCo supports the World Health Organization’s ("WHO") efforts to promote healthy diets. As a company, our sustainability 
priorities are aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals so that our actions can help contribute to 

a greater collective impact. We believe that the extensive time and resources we invest in sugar reformulation can help 
contribute to positive public health outcomes. Aspartame and other low-calorie sweeteners are key ingredients in many 
zero and low-calorie beverages and they play an important role in PepsiCo’s sugar-reduction journey. 


The safety of our consumers is our primary concern. 


We take the safety of our products and ingredients extremely seriously. This is reflected in our publicly available Global 
Code of Conduct and Food Safety Policy which include commitments to deliver safe products and follow safety-related 
regulations. Our Horizon Scanning Program and Scientific Issue Management process provide formal governance to 
monitor, assess and escalate new science and potential regulations that may warrant action. 


PepsiCo employs a team of regulatory professionals, nutrition scientists and toxicologists whose responsibilities include 
monitoring such developments, reviewing available literature, completing and supplementing existing research, and 
ultimately ensuring that the ingredients in our products are both safe for consumers and regulatorily compliant. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 101 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


We have robust internal processes to ensure we base our decisions on the best and most up-to-date evidence, and 
are fully compliant with applicable regulations. 


We have a Scientific Affairs team comprised of qualified toxicologists with expertise to assess ingredient safety. This 

team ensures we only use ingredients if we are satisfied that they are safe both during product design/innovation and 
subsequently through our Horizon Scanning Program. In the case of food additives such as sweeteners, which are highly 
regulated, we defer to regulatory food safety authorities and risk assessment bodies, including the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration ("FDA"), the European Food Safety Authority ("EFSA’), Health Canada, the UK Food Standards Agency (“FSA’) 
and the FAO/WHO Joint Expert Committee on Food Additives amongst others. We also track and evaluate scientific 
developments ourselves to ensure that our internal assessments remain robust and current. 


Our global Nutrition Science team consists of scientists with advanced qualifications in the areas of nutrition, biochemistry, 
physiology, epidemiology and related fields, trained to review, assess and conduct relevant scientific research. We evaluate 
the rigor of emerging research to ensure we put appropriate context to each study based on the weight of evidence and 
ensure we are providing a critical risk assessment for all research related to ingredients or products in PepsiCo’'s portfolio. We 
conduct research to address any gaps in literature and collaborate with third-party experts to advance our knowledge in 
the field. Published content from PepsiCo-sponsored research from 2010 to present can be found on the PepsiCo Health & 
Nutrition Sciences website at www.pepsicohealthandnutritionsciences.com/publications. 


Ingredient safety and regulatory compliance are legal requirements everywhere in the world and our global Regulatory 
Affairs team has responsibility for ensuring every product is compliant with applicable food and beverage regulations 

in every country where we do business. This team systematically carries out regulatory reviews as part of our product 
development, innovation and commercial change processes to ensure that only legally authorized ingredients are used in 
our products. They also monitor developments and activate regulatory change management processes where needed to 
ensure ongoing compliance. 


The WHO recommendation on low- and no-calorie sweeteners is “conditional” and not intended to question the 
safety of low-calorie sweeteners. 


The WHO's Nutrition Guidance Expert Advisory Group (“NUGAG’) issued guidance for policymakers and other stakeholders 
on low- and no-calorie sweeteners ("LNCS") in May 2023. The guidelines recommend that LNCS not be used as a means of 
achieving weight control or reducing the risk of non-communicable diseases ("NCDs’). 


However, the WHO notes this recommendation is based on “low certainty” evidence, and that the recommendation is 
therefore “conditional,” meaning that the NUGAG panel is “uncertain that the desirable consequences of implementing the 
recommendation outweigh the undesirable consequences or [that] the anticipated net benefits are small.”’ The WHO also 
explains that the guidelines are not intended to question the safety of LNCS. 


We strongly believe that the totality of the scientific evidence, including emerging data published since the WHO NUGAG review, 
show that LNCS are an effective tool for reducing added sugar and calorie intake, weight control and diabetes management. 


In July 2023, the WHO body responsible for assessing food additive safety classified aspartame as safe. 


Aspartame is a key ingredient in many no- and low-calorie beverages and has been safely consumed for more than 40 
years. More than 100 studies conducted over this time confirm that aspartame is safe, and it has been authorized for human 
consumption in many countries following thorough safety assessments by scientific committees around the world. Both the 
FDA and the EFSA have independently reviewed and affirmed the safety of aspartame in multiple reviews, most recently in 
2018 by the FDA. 


In July 2023, following a comprehensive safety assessment of all available evidence that included the latest available data, 
the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA”) again reconfirmed the safety of aspartame. 


JECFA is an international independent scientific expert committee jointly administered by the Food and Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations and the WHO. Its advice underpins global Codex Alimentarius food and beverage 
standards and many regulators around the world look to JECFA for authoritative advice on the safety of food additives. As 
part of its evaluation, JECFA examined recent conclusions of the International Agency for Research on Cancer (“IARC”) and 
found no convincing evidence of any concern for human health including no convincing evidence of increased cancer risk. 


102 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


JECFA also re-affirmed the Acceptable Daily Intake ("ADI")? of aspartame. The ADI is a conservative estimate of the amount 
of a substance that can be consumed daily over a lifetime without presenting an appreciable risk to health. The ADI for 
aspartame is such that a 7Okg adult would need to consume more than 9-14 cans of a typical aspartame-containing diet 
soft drink per day for the rest of their life to exceed the ADI. JECFA determined that total dietary intakes of aspartame are 
significantly below the ADI even at high consumption levels. 


Following the aspartame reviews, 29 food safety authorities around the world responded by releasing statements in 
support of the JECFA finding. For example, the FDA* confirmed that aspartame is one of the most studied food additives 
in the human food supply, and that its scientists do not have safety concerns when aspartame is used under the 
approved conditions. 


Based on the substantial body of evidence available on aspartame as well as published reviews and the very comprehensive 
assessments carried out by authoritative food safety bodies, PepsiCo does not believe that a further study of aspartame’s 
impact on consumer wellbeing would be necessary at this time. 


We are committed to advertising our products responsibly. 


We are dedicated to responsibly marketing our products to all consumers, regardless of their race, and we are proud of our 
legacy of responsible advertising. For example, our marketers only advertise to children under 13 those products that meet 
robust nutrition criteria. Additionally, PepsiCo does not advertise any products (regardless of nutritional profile) to children 
who are under the age of 6. In the U.S., we are active participants of Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative 
(‘CFBAI"), a voluntary, self-regulatory pledge program created to improve the children’s food and beverage advertising 
landscape. CFBAI is administered by BBB National Programs, which also administers the Children’s Advertising Review Unit. 
They conduct annual audits of the program and have consistently found PepsiCo to be compliant with our Pledge. 


Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


' https://iris. who.int/bitstream/handle/10665/367660/9789240073616-eng.pdf?sequence=1 


2 https://apps.who.int/food-additives-contaminants-jecfa-database/Home/Chemical/62#:~:text=Overall%2C%20JECFA%20concluded%20that% 
20there,has%20adverse%20effects%20after%20ingestion. 


The ADI is established for the general population, excluding PKU patients. Products containing aspartame must declare they are a source of 
phenylalanine, which individuals with a disease called phenylketonuria (PKU) need to manage. Other common sources of phenylalanine include high 
protein foods such as meat, fish, eggs, cheese, nuts and seeds. 


https://www.fda.gov/food/food-additives-petitions/aspartame-and-other-sweeteners-food#:~:text=Aspartame%20is%200ne%200f%20the,is% 
20approved%20in%20many%20countries 


Shareholder Proposal - Report on Risks Related to Biodiversity and 
Nature Loss (Proxy Item No. 9) 


Green Century Capital Management, Inc. on behalf of the Green Century Equity Fund, 114 State Street, Suite 200, Boston, MA 
02109, the beneficial owner for at least one year of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock worth at least $25,000, has submitted the 
following proposal: 


Report on Risks Related to Biodiversity and Nature Loss 


Whereas: Biodiversity loss is a global systemic risk. Investors and governments worldwide are increasingly acting to address 
the impacts and dependencies of economic activity on natural systems. At the United Nations Biodiversity Conference in 2022, 
190 countries agreed to take steps to prevent biodiversity loss. The resulting Global Biodiversity Framework calls on businesses 
to assess and disclose biodiversity dependencies, impacts and risks, and reduce negative impacts. 


Pepsi's 10-K acknowledges that “any failure to achieve or properly report on our goals with respect to reducing our impact on 
the environment or perception of a failure to act responsibly with respect to the environment ... can lead to adverse-publicity, 
which could result in reduced demand for our products, damage to our reputation or increase the risk of litigation.” 


Failure to comprehensively assess its natural capital dependencies and ultimately mitigate their impacts on the company may 
expose PepsiCo to unnecessary risk: 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 103 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


¢ Systemic risk: More than half of the world’s GDP is either moderately or highly dependent on nature's services, and the 
Food and Beverages industry depends on natural services for $1.4 trillion of value generation. By some estimates, tens of 
billions of dollars in assets could be at risk of stranding over the next five to ten years’. 


e Financial risk: Financial institutions with US $8.7 trillion AUM have committed to eliminate agricultural-commodity-driven 
deforestation from their portfolios by 2025’. As an increasing number of asset managers incorporate such nature-related risk 
into investment decision making, PepsiCo must assess and mitigate activities leading to biodiversity loss in its supply chain or 
risk becoming uninvestable. 


e Regulatory risk: The recently adopted European Sustainability Reporting Standards include mandatory reporting of 
biodiversity and ecosystem impacts and risks,? and mandatory biodiversity reporting in line with Taskforce on Nature-related 
Financial Disclosure (TNFD) is under discussion in the UK*. The International Sustainability Standards Board is reviewing the 


work of the TNFD as it considers developing natured-based disclosures’. 


While PepsiCo has developed a number of commendable sustainability Initiatives, it has not undertaken a systematic review 
of its dependencies and impacts on biodiversity and natural capital. Without a comprehensive assessment of the company’s 
biodiversity impacts, dependencies, risks, and opportunities to inform its policies, PepsiCo may subject itself to unnecessary 
systemic, regulatory, and financial risk. 


Resolved: Shareholders request that PepsiCo complete a material biodiversity dependency and impact assessment and issue 
a corresponding public report to identify the extent to which the company’s supply chains and operations are vulnerable to 
risks associated with biodiversity loss. 


Supporting Statement: |n completing this assessment and report, proponents defer to management's discretion but 
recommend considering the guidance of standard-setting bodies such as the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures 
and Science Based Targets for Nature. 


' https://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF _New_Nature_Economy_Report_2020.pdf 
2 https://climatechampions.unfccc.int/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/COP-27-Press-Briefing-FSDA.pdf 


https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_23_4043 


https://www.environmental-finance.com/content/news/uk-likely-to-make-tnfd-mandatory.html. 


https://www.ifrs.org/news-and-events/news/2022/12/issb-describes-the-concept-of-sustainability/ 


(x) Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


The Board has carefully considered this proposal and has determined that the biodiversity dependency and impact assessment 
and corresponding report requested by this shareholder proposal is neither necessary nor in the best interests of PepsiCo or 
our shareholders, given PepsiCo's robust initiatives to support sustainability and our existing comprehensive reporting. 


Agriculture is core to PepsiCo’s business, and we recognize that our supply chain is linked to the health and 
sustainability of the world’s forests and other natural ecosystems. 


PepsiCo recognizes the critical need to protect and enhance the world’s natural resources and has been working to address 
and help safeguard the health of the world’s ecosystems, including since the launch of Performance with Purpose in 2006. 
Most recently, under pep+ (PepsiCo Positive), we have set ourselves an end-to-end strategy with sustainability at its core, 
built to tackle the topics where we believe our ability to influence positive, systemic change is greatest. Through programs 
like our Sustainable Farming Program, we have been working to help create a more resilient, sustainable agricultural system, 
in an effort to help safeguard our continued business from disruption due to climate change, water scarcity, and other 
environmental and social risks. 


We have set goals for ourselves and our supply chain that match our ambition for a sustainable agricultural 
supply chain over the long term. 


PepsiCo is committed to doing business the right way. Our 2030 Positive Agriculture ambition includes collaborating with 
farmers to help spread the adoption of regenerative farming practices globally. The effort builds on a decade of progress in 
our Sustainable Farming Program, which has helped farmers in 60 countries adopt practices that aim to build resilience and 


104 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


improve and restore ecosystems. To this end, we are striving to meet the following goals by 2030 (or other applicable date), 
and in doing so, mitigating risk for our business and supply chain while helping to build long-term ecosystem health: 


= Spread the adoption of regenerative agriculture practices across 7 million acres of the land used around the world 
to grow our crops and ingredients for our products. 


= Sustainably source’ 100% of our key ingredients, expanding to include not only our grower-sourced crops (potatoes, 
whole corn and oats), but also key crops from third parties, such as vegetable oils and grains. 


= Realize deforestation-free sourcing in our company-owned and -operated activities and global supply chains by 
2025 and conversion-free sourcing by 2030. 


= Reduce absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across our value chain by more than 40%, including a 75% 
reduction in emissions from our direct operations (vs. a 2015 baseline), with the aim of achieving net-zero emissions by 2040. 


= Advocate for and contribute to a measurable improvement in the health of high water-risk watersheds where we 
directly source our crops, including an improvement in water-use efficiency of 15% by 2025. 


= Achieve our sustainable packaging vision with a series of packaging goals including cutting virgin plastic from 
non-renewable sources per serving across our global beverages and convenient foods portfolio by 50%; delivering 
20% of all beverage servings we sell through reusable models; and designing 100% of packaging to be recyclable, 
compostable, biodegradable or reusable by 2025. 


In pursuit of these goals, we are taking deliberate and significant steps to address our impact, risks and opportunities that 
connect our business with nature. For example, our efforts to extend regenerative farming practices are founded on a set 
of techniques that aim to improve and restore ecosystems with a focus on building soil health and fertility; reducing and 
sequestering carbon emissions; improving watershed health; protecting and enhancing biodiversity; and helping improve 
farmer livelihoods. Through these objectives, we aim to optimize crop yields, respect human rights, improve farmer 
livelihoods and secure our supply of agricultural ingredients. 


Our plans to further our pep+ agenda are founded on careful consideration of the nuances of our business and value chain. 
For nature, and for other key topics such as climate change and water, this means working with internal and external experts 
to identify key impacts and risks, and to formulate goals and strategies to mitigate these. The nature and focus of these 
assessments evolve over time in response to the latest science, stakeholder expectations and other developments. PepsiCo 
continues to monitor and evaluate scientific advances and the needs of the business and its stakeholders; any future 
adjustments to its assessment approach are anticipated to reflect these. 


Our Board of Directors and its Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy (“SDPP”) Committee view sustainability issues to 
be an integral part of their business strategy oversight and are actively involved in defining our ambitions and monitoring 
the progress in advancing the pep+ agenda. Throughout the year, the Board and the SDPP Committee regularly receive 
updates from and discuss with senior management the Company's policies, programs and related risks that concern 

key sustainability matters, as well as progress made towards our sustainability-related goals, including those related to 
regenerative agriculture, sustainable sourcing, GHG emissions reduction, water-use efficiency and sustainable packaging. 


We have been reporting publicly on our strategy and progress for more than a decade and intend to continue our 
transparent disclosure going forward, in alignment with key frameworks and standards. 


Our comprehensive environmental, social and governance (ESG’) reporting suite provides regular updates on our approach, 
progress, challenges and key partnerships related to more than 50 topics, including agriculture, deforestation, palm oil, land 
rights, water, climate change and packaging. PepsiCo has a long-standing practice of engaging in an ongoing dialogue with 
shareholders and other stakeholders, whose feedback helps shape our disclosures, and has received positive feedback from our 
shareholders on our ESG reporting. For these pages and more, see ESG Topics A-Z on our website, available at www.pepsico.com/ 
our-impact/esg-topics-a-z. We believe this level of disclosure to be sufficient and do not believe that reporting on biodiversity and 
nature loss in a stand-alone report is warranted, as it is already incorporated into our broader reporting on ESG matters. 


Additionally, reporting on biodiversity will be an element of future regulatory reporting requirements, requiring 

certain entities to disclose detail on their processes to identify, measure and manage impacts, risks, opportunities, and 
dependencies related to biodiversity, among other sustainability topics. We are focused on preparations in line with those 
forthcoming requirements and believe that developing a stand-alone report on biodiversity would add costs, divert 
resources from, and detract from our preparations. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 105 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


Given the meaningful steps PepsiCo has taken, and plans to continue to take, to support sustainability and existing robust public 
disclosures on ESG matters, we believe the report requested by this proposal would not be an efficient use of Company resources. 


Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


' For grower-sourced crops, sustainable sourcing refers to meeting the independently verified environmental, social and economic principles of PepsiCo's 
Sustainable Farming Program (SFP). For more information on PepsiCo’s SFP and the applicable standards, please see www.pepsico.com/esg-topics-a-z/agriculture. 


Shareholder Proposal - Third-Party Racial Equity Audit (Proxy 
Item No. 10) 


The Nathan Cummings Foundation, 120 Wall Street, 26th Floor, New York, NY 10005, the beneficial owner for at least one year of 
shares of Pepsico Common Stock worth at least $25,000, has submitted the following proposal: 


RESOLVED: Shareholders of PepsiCo, Inc. (“PepsiCo”) urge the board of directors to oversee a third-party audit (within a 
reasonable time and at a reasonable cost) that assesses and produces recommendations for improving the racial impacts of its 
policies, practices, products, and services, above and beyond legal and regulatory matters. A report on the audit, prepared at 
reasonable cost and omitting confidential/proprietary information, should be published on the company’s website. 


WHEREAS: Racial equity audits engage companies in a process that may unlock value, uncover blind spots, and strengthen 


external relationships. 


Leaders of major racial justice organizations across the United States have called for companies to conduct racial equity audits. 
The best practices these organizations identified for completing these audits are: 


1) Select an independent person or firm with civil rights and racial justice expertise and adequate resources to complete the audit. 


2) Ensure the audit comprehensively examines how corporate policies, practices, and products can ameliorate or exacerbate 
racial inequalities. Audit processes should proactively identify and engage in outreach to a wide range of stakeholders such 
as civil rights organizations, employees, and customers impacted by racial inequity. 


3) Publish audit findings, recommendations, and progress reports with action plans with timelines to address identified issues.' 


At least 19 corporations have committed to or are in the process of completing racial equity audits. 


PepsiCo has a long history of breaking barriers — including naming the first Black officer of a major U.S. multinational 
corporation in the 1960s. More recent admirable efforts include pledging more than $570 million to increase Black and Hispanic 
representation at PepsiCo, within its partnerships and supply chain. The company has stated that it is “committed to helping 
dismantle systemic barriers in Black and Hispanic American communities.”* 


Peps 


competitive a 


Peps 


more heavily i 
althy White woman giving a police officer a Pepsi during a time when Black Lives Matter protestors were working to bring 


awe 


iCo has a 


iCo has a 


so Said diversity, equity, and inclusion “is an imperative to our long-term success and continues to be a 
dvantage at PepsiCo.” 


so mis stepped at times, with allegations of discriminatory hiring practices,‘ advertising low-nutrition products 
n communities of color, and encouraging a hostile work environment. This included its advertisement featuring 


attention to police brutality against Black Americans. This ad, called “tone-deaf" by Marketing Week, led to extensive social 


med 


ia protests against the PepsiCo brand.’ 


106 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


| 4 
A still image from the ad accused of “trivializing Black Lives Matter" as published in the New York Times® 


PepsiCo launched a Multicultural Business and Equity Development organization? in 2022, but its President retired within a 
year'?and announcements around replacement leadership were not made. 


We urge the company to conduct a racial equity audit to examine its total impact and to support the longevity and popularity 
of its brand via a thoroughly developed understanding of its role in supporting racial equity efforts. 


ps://hiphopcaucus.org/major-u-s-civil-rights-and-racial-justice-organizations-call-on-corporations-to-account-for-racial-equity-and-civil-rights-audits/ 
ps://www.pepsico.com/our-impact/diversity/racial-equality-journey 


ww.pepsico.com/docs/default-source/diversity-equity-inclusion/2023_pepsico_dei_annual_report.pdf?sfvrsn=25b79828_17 
ps://www.reuters.com/article/us-pepsico-bias-settlement/pepsico-settles-u-s-charge-of-racial-bias-in-hiring-idUSTRE80A2A720120111 
ps://today.uconn.edu/2022/11/new-study-shows-unhealthy-food-advertising-continues-to-disproportionately-target-consumers-of-color/ 
ps://www.syracuse.com/news/2021/07/a-black-worker-2-white-co-workers-charge-racism-discrimination-at-syracuse-pepsi-facility.htm| 
ps://www.marketingweek.com/pepsi-scandal-prove-lack-diversity-house-work-flawed/ 
ps://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/04/06/business/06xp-PEPSI/O6xp-PEPSI-jumbo.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp 
ps://csnews.com/pepsico-creates-new-organization-accelerate-companys-racial-equality-journey 


w 
SS SS SS SS SS SS 


ps://www.linkedin.com/in/dereklewis1/ 


(x) Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


After careful consideration, the Board believes the racial equity audit requested by this shareholder proposal is unnecessary 
and not in the best interests of PepsiCo or our shareholders. 


We have already engaged an independent third party to assess our policies and practices relating to racial equity. 


We have engaged an independent third party to assess our policies and practices across the pillars of representation, 
compensation, workplace culture, business practices, and contributions and investments as it relates to the Black and 
Hispanic cohorts. Working with Management Leadership for Tomorrow's ("MLT") Racial Equity Certification Program 

will enable us to better understand the experience of Black and Hispanic associates within our organization and in the 
communities we serve, and identify potential gaps. Our work with MLT has helped us to improve the rigor across measuring 
progress on the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (“DEI”) agenda and building a roadmap to further our impact. 


We already have a robust pay equity process developed under professional guidance from an independent 
third party. 


We have a long-standing and comprehensive global pay equity process for managing pay programs that is designed to 
ensure pay equity across employee groups. Our comprehensive global pay equity review process was developed under 
professional guidance from an independent third party. As of 2022, we had implemented this process in 72 countries 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 107 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


that collectively make up more than 99% of our salaried employee population. In the salaried U.S. population, people of 
color (Black, Hispanic and Asian) are paid within 1% (based on base compensation) of non-minorities, after controlling for 
legitimate drivers of pay such as job level, geographic location and performance ratings. 


We already partner with independent, external organizations that provide us with guidance and advice on 
racial equity. 


We actively engage with external stakeholders and advisors who span business, academia, and non-profits and partner 
with thought leading organizations that give us guidance and advice on racial equity. These organizations include 
UnidosUS, Hispanic Association for Corporate Responsibility, the National Urban League, and the Asian American Business 
Development Center (‘AABDC’) which, among other things, help advise PepsiCo on where the need is greatest in the 
communities we serve. For example, in the wake of the Asian community experiencing an uptick in hate crimes, we were 
able to turn to AABDC and other relevant partners to help advise us on how best to support the Asian community. 


PepsiCo also established Community Advisory Committees, a cross-section of external business, community and non- 
profit leaders, to provide strategic advice as we developed our racial equality goals and initiatives. We have continued to 
meet with the Community Advisory Committees to provide an update on where we are on our racial equality journey 
agenda and have in-depth discussions where we gain insights and advice on issues including talent recruitment, barriers to 
expanding opportunities across a supply chain, and increasing economic inclusion in local communities. 


PepsiCo is already executing against numerous ongoing DEI initiatives. 


As the proposal recognizes, PepsiCo has a long history of pursuing initiatives that break barriers. PepsiCo is committed to 
advancing human rights and DEI within our organization, across our value chain, and in the communities we serve because 
we believe doing so is critical to the long-term success of our business. We are already executing against numerous DE! 


initiatives across our global operations, including a U.S.-focused strategy designed to prevent discrimination and harassment, 


address systemic barriers and advance racial equity in the community. 
As part of its Racial Equality Journey (“REJ") Initiative to help dismantle systemic barriers in Black and Hispanic communities, 
PepsiCo is investing more than $570 million over five years to increase our U.S. Black and Hispanic managerial representation 
to mirror workforce availability of the communities where we work, support Black and Hispanic businesses, and help 
empower Black and Hispanic communities. Our progress across our three strategic pillars - people, business, and 

community — includes, but is not limited to: 


People: In 2020, we announced our aspirational representation goa 


s to increase the U.S. Black and Hispanic managerial 


population to 10% by 2025 
Opportunity Employer and federal contractor, we strive 
recruiting efforts and expanding the diversity of our app 
decisions are based upon protected category-neutral cri 
is 9.2% and our U.S. Hispanic managerial representation i 


Business: We select suppliers who we believe are best suited to meet our business needs and h 


to mirror the workforce availability of the communities where we work. As an Equal Employment 


towards these goals through, among other things, strategic 

licant pools, while taking steps to ensure that employment 

teria. As of November 2023, our U.S. Black managerial representation 
S 10.3%. 


ave focused on expanding 


the diversity of our supplier pool, in turn creating oppor 


= As part of REJ, we announced a goal 


spend, over five years, of $350 million. 
met these goals, having already reach 


We established an additional goal to support and stre 


to more than double our spend with Black-owned suppli 
We also set a goal to invest $275 million in Hispanic-owned businesses. We have 
ed an incremental spend of $392 million with Black-own 
spent more than $277 million with Hispanic-owned businesses in 2022 alone. 


unity to increase spend with diverse suppliers. 


ers, with an incremental 


ed businesses, and having 


ngthen Black and Hispanic owned businesses. In 2023, we invested 


more than $28 million in Juntos Crecemos and additional programming to support Hispanic-owned businesses. In 2022 


and 2023 combined, we invested more than $41 million in Pepsi Dig In and a partnership with 


to support Black-owned restaurants and the commun 


the National Urban League 
ities behind them. 


In 2023, we continued to strengthen relationships with diverse-owned businesses in the U.S. and hosted our first Supplier 


Diversity Summit with 100+ supplier partners participating for two days to discuss how we can overcome hurdles to 
establishing business partnerships, uncover new growth opportunities, and network. 


108 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


Community: The PepsiCo Foundation is investing in scholarships to help students, including more than 4,000 Black and 
Hispanic students, complete certifications and associate and bachelor’s degrees through community college programs, and 
investing in the communities where we operate to increase access to career resources and tackle food insecurity. 


= Our Food for Good ("FFG") program has delivered 270 million meals to more than 46 million people worldwide since its 
launch in 2009. Thanks to our FFG team, and our partners, we delivered 8.8 million meals to over 400,000 children across 
the US., ensuring they all have access to nutritious food whether they're at school or at home. 


= We have awarded over $13 million in scholarships through our Uplift community college scholarships and S.M.1.L.E 
(Success Matters in Life & Education) scholarships to students seeking two-year associate degrees and trade certificates 
and students transitioning from community colleges to four-year colleges since 2020. 


® PepsiCo is also investing $5 million to increase access to career resources for at-risk youth in markets where we operate. 
PepsiCo already reports transparently on progress towards its racial equity goals. 


PepsiCo voluntarily reports on its DEI strategy and metrics, including but not limited to publicly disclosing our annual 

U.S. Consolidated EEO-1 report as submitted to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, U.S. and global 
workforce demographics, annual DEI report, and REJ progress reports. This reporting can be found on a dedicated page 

on our website, available at www.pepsico.com/our-impact/diversity-equity-and-inclusion, and related pages on DEI on our 
comprehensive environmental, social and governance reporting suite (ESG A-Z Topics Platform), available at 
www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics-a-z. Our ESG Topics A-Z Platform further includes robust disclosures on our product- 
related goals and progress. 


PepsiCo’s existing global DE] initiatives, including with respect to racial equity, are aligned to the Company’s 
business strategy and informed by our employees. 


With over 300,000 associates globally, and a presence in more than 200 countries and territories, PepsiCo's commitment to 
advancing DEI and human rights is a business imperative. It is a core component of how we work, that we believe gives us a 
competitive advantage and serves as the foundation of a winning mentality within our Company. Our existing DEI strategy 
includes striving to create an inclusive and equitable environment within our organization, across our value chain, and in the 
communities we serve. Our legacy of leading with DEI goes back to our first Black sales team in 1947 and the legacy of Harvey 
C. Russell becoming the first African American Vice President at a major corporation; being one of the first major companies to 
appoint a woman to our Board; and being one of the first to start multicultural marketing and a supplier diversity program. 


To inform our DEI strategy, we continuously engage with business leaders across our organization, including the CEOs of our 
foods and beverages businesses, General Managers of our multicultural and Hispanic Business Units, and other members of 
our senior leadership team. We also established an Industry Relations and Multicultural Business Development organization, 
our internal team focused on scaling our efforts on DEI into our business and in the community, which has been led by Kent 
Montgomery following Derek Lewis's retirement at the end of 2022. In addition, we engage with our Employee Resource 
Groups which have more than 14,000 members in North America, and help to educate, connect, and celebrate the valuable 
contributions of associates in creating community and fostering an inclusive workplace. 


PepsiCo is committed to responsible advertising and innovating to expand our portfolio and improve the 
nutritional profile of many of our products. 


PepsiCo is committed to responsibly marketing its products and offering a broad range of choices. When marketing our 
products, PepsiCo complies with relevant laws and regulations in each market in which we operate. Examples of this include, 
but are not limited to: 


= Our marketing investments and strategic partnerships with YouTube, Meta and other media properties allow us to share 
innovations from brands such as PopCorners, Bare Snacks, SunChips and Off the Eaten Path as well as our zero sugar 
beverage offerings with diverse audiences, to ensure all consumers are aware of our more nutritious brands. 

= Inthe first half of 2023, our snacks media investments focused on more nutritious and diverse ingredient-focused snacks 
brands like Bare Snacks, SIMPLY by Frito-Lay, HiLo, and PopCorners across a broad demographic, including a national 
campaign for PopCorners which debuted at the 2023 Super Bowl. In addition, PopCorners invested with Hispanic and 
Black-owned media partners including Entertainment Studios, Fuse, LATV, Revolt, TVOne and Weather Channel. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 109 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


We have also engaged in strategic marketing and brand partnerships for lower-sugar and zero-sugar beverages products. 
In 2022, Pure Leaf Iced Tea expanded its tea portfolio with new lower sugar iced teas, and in 2023, the brand announced a 
new campaign featuring Black actress and singer Coco Jones. And in 2023, Propel, our zero-sugar enhanced water brand, 
entered a multi-year partnership with Black actor, director and producer Michael B. Jordan to provide more access and 
resources for fitness in more spaces. 


We are also continuously innovating and expanding our portfolio so that consumers can continue to enjoy our most-loved 
brands as part of a balanced diet. As a part of pep+ (PepsiCo Positive), our strategic end-to-end transformation framework, 
we are making progress towards our goals to improve the nutritional profile of our product portfolio, including by reducing 
added sugars, sodium, and saturated fat, and using more diverse ingredients like legumes, whole grains, plant-based 
proteins, fruits and vegetables and nuts and seeds. Ultimately, our aim is to inspire positive outcomes through our brands 
and their actions, including empowering consumers with transparent environment labeling on key products. 


Our Board and our Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy Committee provide robust oversight of our DEI 
strategies and progress. 


The Board and its Sustainability, Diversity and Public Policy (‘SDPP”) Committee, which is comprised entirely of directors who 

meet the independence requirements under the Nasdaq rules, provide oversight on and regularly interact with management 

on a broad range of human capital management and sustainability topics, including the Company's DEI policies, programs and 
initiatives and progress made towards our DEl-related goals, human rights, and organizational health, as well as marketing practices 
and our portfolio transformation initiatives and progress. The Board believes PepsiCo can best promote both its long-term 
business success and racial equity in society at large by remaining focused on its extensive existing racial equality initiatives. 


Given the wide range of independent third-party assessments and guidance that the Company has already obtained to 
inform and assess its initiatives, its demonstrated commitment to and reporting on progress towards its racial equity goals, 
and its efforts to offer more nutritious products to the communities we serve through both broad-based and targeted 
marketing campaigns, we believe this proposal is neither necessary nor a good use of Company resources. 


Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


Shareholder Proposal - Report on Risks Created by the Company's 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Efforts (Proxy Item No. 11) 


National Center for Public Policy Research, 2005 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20036, the beneficial owner for at 
least three years of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock worth at least $2,000, has submitted the following proposal: 


Report to Shareholders on Risks Created by the Company’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Efforts 
WHEREAS: 


The US Supreme Court ruled in SFFA v. Harvard on June 29, 2023, that discriminating on the basis of race in college admissions 
violates the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment! 


Attorneys General of 13 States warned Fortune 100 companies on July 13, 2023, that SFFA implicated corporate diversity, equity, 
and inclusion programs. 


Prior legal advice regarding the legality of racially discriminatory programs has been called into question post-SFFA.? 


Recent analysis of American Fortune 100 hiring in the wake of the 2020 race riots found that whites were excluded from 94 
percent of the hiring decisions,’ providing prima facie evidence of illegal discrimination by these companies. 


A review of PepsiCo's website on Nov. 16, 2023, revealed that PepsiCo has apparently adopted gender and race hiring and 
promotion quotas, stating: “We aim to ... increase our Black and Hispanic managerial populations, respectively, to 10% by 2025" 
and have “50% women in management roles by 2025."°In addition, PepsiCo is apparently committed to allocating resources on the 
basis of race, stating: “In 2020, we announced our Racial Equality Journey (REJ) Initiative, which is investing more than $570 million 
over five years to increase Black and Hispanic representation at PepsiCo and in our partnerships and supply chain,” including “$400 
million to increase Black representation at PepsiCo, support Black businesses and empower Black communities” and “$172 million 
to empower Hispanic communities and businesses” (including “additional initiatives with $224 million for Hispanic suppliers”).’ 


110 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


RESOLVED: 


Shareholders ask that the board commission and publish a report on (1) whether the Company engages in any practices 
associated with diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives that may create risks of discriminating illegally on bases such as race 
and sex, thereby potentially triggering justice-seeking responses from stakeholders of the company (including employees, 
suppliers, contractors, and retained professionals), and (2) the potential costs of such discrimination to the business. 


SUPPORTING STATEMENT: 


In just the past year, a corporation was successfully sued for a single case of discrimination against a white employee resulting 
in an award of more than $25 million.’ The risk of being sued for such discrimination appears only to be rising.? With over 
300,000 employees,'? PepsiCo likely has at least 225,000 employees who are potentially the victims of this type of illegal 
discrimination because they are white, Asian, male, or straight." Accordingly, even if only 10 percent of such employees were 
to file suit, and only 10 percent of those prove successful, the cost to the company could exceed $56 billion. And while more 
comprehensive racial equity audits can cost up to $4 million, this report should cost much less, as it need review only the 
potentially discriminatory programs. 


ps://www.scotusblog.com/case-files/cases/students-for-fair-admissions-inc-v-president-fellows-of-harvard-college/ 
ps://ag.ks.gov/docs/default-source/documents/corporate-racial-discrimination-multistate-letter.pdf?sfvrsn=968abcla_2 
ps://freebeacon.com/democrats/starbucks-hired-eric-holder-to-conduct-a-civil-rights-audit-the-policies-he-blessed-got-the-coffee-maker-sued/ 


ps://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/2023-black-lives-matter-equal-opportunity-corporate-diversity/ 
ps://www.dailywire.com/news/bloomberg-flubs-data-for-bombshell-report-that-only-6-of-new-corporate-hires-are-white 


ps://www.census.gov/quickfacts/fact/table/US/PST045222 
ps://www.pepsico.com/our-impact/diversity-equity-and-inclusion/our-demographics 


ps://www.pepsico.com/our-impact/diversity/racial-equality-journey 


SS a a: SF SF SF Se ee 


ps://www.foxbusiness.com/features/starbucks-manager-shannon-phillips-wins-25-million-lawsuit-fired-white-donte-robinson-rashon-nelson 


See, e.g., https://aflegal.org/america-first-legal-files-class-action-lawsuit-against-progressive-insurance-for-illegal-racial-discrimination/ ; https://aflegal. 
org/afl-files-federal-civil-rights-complaint-against-activision-for-illegal-racist-sexist-and-discriminatory-hiring-practices-and-sends-letter-to-activision- 
board-demanding-they-end-unlawful-dei-polici/ ; https://aflegal.org/america-first-legal-files-federal-civil-rights-complaint-against-kelloggs-warns- 
management-that-its-violating-fiduciary-duties/ 
https://www.pepsico.com/docs/default-source/sustainability-and-esg-topics/2022-employee-demographics.pdf 


" https://www.census.gov/quickfacts/fact/table/US/PST045222 


(x) Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


After careful consideration, the Board has determined that issuing a report on risks created by the Company's diversity, 
equity, and inclusion (“DEI”) initiatives requested by the shareholder proposal is neither necessary nor in the best interests of 
PepsiCo or our shareholders. 


PepsiCo has developed a global DEI strategy to support the Company's plans for long-term success. As it relates to our U.S- 
focused DEI efforts, we execute this strategy in a manner that is consistent with our status as an Equal Employment Opportunity 
Employer and it is our Company policy to achieve our DEI goals in a manner consistent with applicable laws. To maintain 
transparency and accountability, we voluntarily report on our DEI strategies and metrics, including but not limited to publicly 
disclosing our annual U.S. Consolidated EEO-1 report as submitted to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. 


PepsiCo’s global DEI strategy is designed to align to the Company’s business initiatives and applicable 
legal requirements. 


As one of the largest food and beverage companies in the world, PepsiCo does business in hundreds of markets, each with 

their own culture, character, and history. To compete on this scale, we must understand the unique needs of local consumers 
and put them at the center of everything we do, from our products and campaigns to our partnerships and innovations. That's 
why Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion is a core component of how we work, giving us a competitive advantage and serving as the 
foundation of a winning mentality within our company. This includes embracing the diversity of all our associates, while we strive 
to create an inclusive and equitable environment within our organization, across our value chain, and in the communities we 
serve. We believe that is not only the right thing to do for our society, but also critical to the long-term success of our business. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 111 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


The stronger our DEI strategy, the better we are at meeting the needs of our consumers and customers in more than 200 
countries and territories, and the faster we can grow our business and create value for our stakeholders. It is our Company policy 
to achieve our DEI goals in a manner consistent with applicable laws. 


PepsiCo executes its U.S.-focused DEI efforts ina manner consistent with its status as an Equal Employment 
Opportunity Employer. 


As it relates to our U.S.-focused DEI efforts, PepsiCo is an Equal Employment Opportunity Employer. It is our policy to take 
steps to assure that people are recruited, hired, assigned and promoted without regard to race, color, age, sex, gender, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, transgender status, religion, creed, national origin, ethnicity, 
citizenship, ancestry, disability, genetic information, military or veteran status, pregnancy, marital or familial status, or any 
other protected category under applicable law. Furthermore, PepsiCo does not tolerate harassment, discrimination or 
retaliation based on these protected categories. 


The aspirational representation goals referenced in the proponent’s proposal are not quotas. They are aspirational 
representation goals to mirror the workforce availability of the communities where we work. Indeed, as a U.S. federal 
contractor, we are obligated to develop affirmative action plans and take steps to mirror the workforce availability of the 
communities where we work. A primary means of achieving our aspirational representation goals is via outreach and 
increasing the diversity of our applicant pools. As stated above, as an Equal Employment Opportunity Employer, it is our 
policy that employment decisions are not made based on race, gender, or any other protected characteristic. 


Like the work to drive our aspirational representation goals, our Supplier Diversity program strives to increase the diversity of 
our supplier diversity pool. We know that supplier diversity is a critical business advantage because it ensures we are seeking 
out nimble, innovative suppliers who challenge how we think. This helps us deliver on our bottom line while building 

a supplier base that mirrors the diversity of our employees, customers, consumers and communities where we operate. 
PepsiCo strives to develop a robust supplier base that includes diverse-owned businesses that provide quality goods 

and services. We remain focused on the goal of increasing our spend with business enterprises across all diverse cohorts. 
Increasing diversity in our supplier pools expands economic opportunity, but it does not equate to making vendor bid 
awards based on protected category status. 


PepsiCo remains committed to transparency and accountability as integral components of our DEI strategy. 


PepsiCo voluntarily reports on its DEI strategies and metrics, including but not limited to publicly disclosing our annual U.S. 
Consolidated EEO-1 report as submitted to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, U.S. and global workforce 
demographics, annual DEI report, and Racial Equality Journey progress reports. This reporting can be found on a dedicated 
page on our website, available at www.pepsico.com/our-impact/diversity-equity-and-inclusion, and related pages on DEI on 
our comprehensive environmental, social and governance reporting suite (ESG A-Z Topics Platform), available at 
www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics-a-z. 


As demonstrated above, PepsiCo is committed to the advancement of DEI for all associates in the U.S. and to achieving 

our DEI goals in a manner consistent with applicable laws, not only because we believe it is the right thing to do for our 
society, but because we believe it is critical to the long-term success of our business; accordingly, the Board believes that the 
reporting called for in this proposal is neither necessary nor a good use of Company resources. 


Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


Shareholder Proposal - Global Transparency Report (Proxy 
Item No. 12) 


John C. Harrington, Harrington Investments, Inc. 1001 2nd Street, Suite 325, Napa, California 94559, the beneficial owner for at 
least three years of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock worth at least $2,000, has submitted the following proposal: 


RESOLVED: Shareholders request PepsiCo annually issue a transparency report on global public policy and political influence, 
disclosing company expenditures and activities outside of the United States. Such report should disclose company funding 
and in-kind support directed to candidates or electioneering, lobbying, scientific advocacy, and charitable donations for the 
preceding year including: 


112 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


e recipients and amounts; 

e date and timeframe of the activity taking place; 

e PepsiCo’s membership in, or payments to, nongovernmental organizations including trade and business associations, 
scientific or academic organizations and charities; and 

e the rationale for these activities. 


The Board and management may, in its discretion, establish a de minimis threshold, such as contributions to a recipient totaling 
less than 250 dollars, below which itemized disclosures would not be required. 


Supporting Statement: 


Food corporations rely heavily on consumer trust, brand affinity and public goodwill. Today, public officials, journalists, NGOs, and 
even social media often spotlight corporate advocacy that drastically contradicts a company’s image, brand or stated values. 


The food industry is vulnerable to contradictory company support for scientific advocacy and trade associations that 
undermine public health policies - ConMexico, a PepsiCo supported trade association, lobbied the Mexican government to 
postpone food labeling regulations generating widespread criticism due to negative impacts on public health. 


PepsiCo operates in nearly 200 countries and territories, with approximately 291,000 global employees. In 2020, 42 percent of 
operating profits came from outside the United States. While PepsiCo discloses fragmentary information relating to United 
States political activities, spending to influence and engage on public policy outside the United States is even more poorly 
disclosed. PepsiCo scores low regarding disclosures of international corporate political activities, according to a recently 
published transparency index. Vanguard has cautioned: 


“Poor governance of corporate political activity, coupled with misalignment to a company’s stated strategy or a lack of 
transparency about the activity, can manifest into financial, legal, and reputational risks that can affect long term value”. 


Plastics are another glaring issue. In 2018, PepsiCo endorsed a Global Commitment to eliminate the plastic items we don’t need, 
and to innovate so all plastic we do need is designed to be safely reused, recycled, or composted. Yet the company reported in 
2023 that we continued to increase the virgin plastic utilized, and funded trade groups opposing waste reduction policies. 


PepsiCo is also a member of trade groups like the Consumer Goods Association of South Africa that has been accused of 
“ignoring scientific evidence” and the Brazilian Association of the Food Industry which faces accusations of “acting unethically” 
in lobbying against public health laws. 


Investors require transparency on the details and rationales for such significant spending on these political entities. 


tou 


We recognize PepsiCo's “business is affected by public policy at the local, state, national, regional and global levels,” and that if 
a “strong Global Code of Conduct” is employed as propounded by PepsiCo, then implementing the comprehensive disclosures 
requested should not be a challenge. 


(x) Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


In recent years, public attention and scrutiny have increased around the role corporations play in public policy processes, 
including through the provision of political contributions. PepsiCo recognizes the need for corporations to have strong 
governance over their corporate political activities, alignment between such activities and stated corporate strategies, and 
transparency with respect to their advocacy and related actions. As such, PepsiCo has worked to facilitate active oversight 
and corporate transparency around this topic. 


After careful consideration, including the evaluation of shareholder feedback on a nearly identical and unsuccessful proposal 
that received support from 18.5% and 17.6% of the votes cast in 2023 and 2022, respectively, the Board has determined 

that the report on PepsiCo’s non-US. political activities and related contributions requested by the shareholder proposal is 
neither necessary nor in the best interests of PepsiCo or our shareholders. 


We regularly engage with stakeholders globally, including government officials, to raise our concerns around or support 
regulatory proposals in order to advance an equal playing field for our businesses and/or facilitate our Company's goals, 
such as in the area of sustainability. Over the years, we have worked closely with external stakeholders to design a leading 
system of transparency on political engagement in the U.S., which also takes into account our international operations, as 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 113 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


reflected through our comprehensive publicly available reporting and disclosures on our website. Our practices and policies, 
as detailed below, reflect our efforts to provide clear, consistent, transparent and meaningful guidelines around PepsiCo’s 
role in engaging in public policy processes. 


We have not made, and do not plan to make, political contributions to candidates outside of the U.S. Although no 
international political contributions are currently planned, we have publicly stated on our website that we would 
disclose any international contributions paid, along with all our U.S. contributions, to provide transparency. 
Additionally, PepsiCo does not directly sponsor communications supporting or opposing candidates or 

political parties. 


Our Board of Directors oversees the Company's public policy processes and activities with the assistance of its Sustainability, 
Diversity and Public Policy Committee, which is comprised entirely of, and chaired by, independent directors. 


The Committee conducts a periodic review of our policies and practices regarding political contributions, as well as an 
annual review of our political contributions and expenditures. For additional information, see the dedicated page on our 
website at www.pepsico.com/esg-topics-a-z/publicpolicy-engagement-political-activities-and-contributions-guidelines. 


We comply with all national transparency rules around reporting contributions to trade associations in the U.S. 
and internationally, and we publish a global list of trade association memberships organized by contribution 
amounts. Through our memberships in trade associations, PepsiCo aims to make constructive contributions that 
support policies that help our business, our consumers and society thrive in a sustainable fashion. 


PepsiCo advocates on our own behalf and belongs to trade associations that advocate on our behalf. PepsiCo works with 
these groups because they represent the food and beverage industry and the business community on issues that are critical 
to PepsiCo’s business and its stakeholders. Importantly, such organizations help develop consensus among varied interests. 


We follow all national transparency rules regarding the disclosure of our contributions to trade associations. As a general 
rule, the trade associations with which we engage internationally do not provide contributions to political candidates, and 
we expect our associations to inform the Company if they were to begin engaging in this way. A list of our contributions to 
global trade associations of which PepsiCo is a member is available at: www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics-a-z/public- 
policy-engagement-political-activities-and-contribution-guidelines. 


The proposal notes our support of the trade association, Mexican Council of Consumer Goods Products (ConMexico), 

our membership in which we publicly disclose on our website, and ConMexico’s lobbying of the Mexican government 

to postpone local food labeling regulations issued in March 2020. PepsiCo, along with ConMexico, participated in the 
deliberation process for the proposed 2020 labeling regulations, and lobbied for an extension of the six-month compliance 
period due to logistical complexities and supply chain closures derived from the COVID-19 pandemic. PepsiCo is committed 
to helping consumers make informed choices through fact-based, simple, and easy-to-understand information about the 
key nutrients in our products. As such, PepsiCo has a global labeling policy that applies to all countries in which we operate 
and is available on our website at www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics-a-z/product-labeling-and-claims. 


In addition, the proposal mentions that we are a member of the Consumer Goods Council of South Africa (CGCSA) and the 
Brazilian Association of Food Industries (ABIA), which is also publicly disclosed on our website. The CGCSA is an industry 
association with over 9,000 member companies in the consumer goods, retail, and services sectors, and the ABIA is the 
largest representative of the Brazilian food and beverage industry with its members representing 80% of the sector in 

terms of production value. These associations play a pivotal role in representing the collective view of the industry to the 
regulatory authorities in their respective countries and participating in discussions with representatives from civil society and 
the press. As a member of CGCSA and ABIA, PepsiCo continues to reserve the right to make submissions and engage with 
authorities separately, if it is not in agreement with the collective view put together by either association. 


PepsiCo is committed to transparent reporting with respect to our pep+ (PepsiCo Positive) ambitions, including 
our global agriculture, environmental (including packaging), people, and product and nutrition goals and 
progress, and we publish a suite of reporting elements that are publicly available on our website. 


The proposal discusses PepsiCo’s actions related to plastics. As referenced in the proposal, in 2018 PepsiCo endorsed the 
New Plastics Economy Global Commitment and we have set a goal aiming to reduce virgin plastic from non-renewable 
sources per serving across our global beverages and convenient foods portfolio by 50% by 2030 against a 2020 baseline. We 
publicly disclose our progress towards our New Plastics Economy Global Commitment goals and other progress towards our 
sustainable packaging ambition on a dedicated page on our website, available at www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics- 
a-z/packaging. 


114 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


Our progress in 2022 was impacted by challenges arising from greater than anticipated business growth in certain markets 
and limited availability and high costs of recycled content. As we continue our multi-year journey, we will take lessons 
learned to inform our strategy, including focusing on additional mitigating actions to further our goal of reducing virgin 
plastic use. In addition, we recognize that working toward a circular economy requires multi-stakeholder collaboration and 
active partnerships across the entire packaging value chain. 


We collaborate with a broad range of key stakeholders including non-governmental organizations and other industry actors, 
and will continue to actively support policy proposals that are broad-based, deliver positive environmental outcomes, 
provide incentives for sustainability, and allow us to contribute to the design and implementation of sensible waste 
management programs such as industry-led Extended Producer Responsibility programs. 


To further support our vision, PepsiCo supports an ambitious United Nations agreement to end plastic pollution and is a 
member of the Business Coalition for a Global Plastic Treaty convened by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF) and World 
Wildlife Fund. 


In addition to our comprehensive reporting of our packaging goals and progress, PepsiCo is committed to reporting 
holistically and transparently to our stakeholders as we work towards achieving our sustainability goals and advancing our 
pep+ ambition, including our agriculture, environmental, people, and product and nutrition goals progress, among others. 
We describe PepsiCo’s approach to reporting and already publish a suite of reporting elements on our website, which may 
be found at www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics-a-z/about-our-reporting. 


Our scientific engagement is focused on sharing our expertise on key issues. PepsiCo publishes a global list of 
contributions to scientific organizations, organized by contribution amounts, and adheres to robust principles on 
transparency in sponsoring any scientific research, including making available links to PepsiCo-funded research 
on our website and disclosing any role of PepsiCo in research when promoting findings of sponsored research. 


As companies continue to be called upon to develop creative, innovative solutions and products to better serve society’s 
needs, PepsiCo is committed to engaging with stakeholders on public health and sustainability topics. 


For example, PepsiCo is a member of organizations such as the European Food Information Council, a non-profit 
organization focused on making the science behind food and health more accessible and easier to understand among the 
public. Our scientific engagement is focused on sharing our expertise on key issues such as food safety, food allergies, health 
benefits assessment of food products, microplastics, packaging materials, sensory science and consumer behavior. 


PepsiCo publishes a list of contributions to scientific organizations of which PepsiCo is a member, which is available at: 
www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics-a-z/public-policy-engagement-political-activities-and-contribution-guidelines. With 
respect to scientific research, PepsiCo believes that adherence to ethical principles is essential and has adopted the PepsiCo 
Position on Conduct of Scientific Research (“Scientific Research Position”), which is disclosed on a dedicated page on 
responsible research on our website, available at www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg-topics-a-z/responsible-research. 


The Scientific Research Position outlines our guiding principles on transparency, conflicts of interest and minimizing bias 
and best practices with respect to PepsiCo-sponsored research and research conducted by PepsiCo associates with external 
research partners. Among other things, we require sponsored researchers to follow accepted principles of scientific rigor in 
order to adequately test the stated hypotheses and assure accuracy of data produced and requires that any role of PepsiCo 
at all times be made public through disclosure of source of funding. 


In addition, the Scientific Research Position states that we will (1) make available on our website citations for, and hyperlinks 
to, PepsiCo-funded research at the time of publication in a peer-reviewed journal, and (2) be fully transparent about our role 
in the design, implementation and analysis of the research, as well as in research funding, when promoting the findings of 
sponsored research. Published content from PepsiCo-sponsored research from 2010 to present can be found on the PepsiCo 
Health & Nutrition Sciences website at www.pepsicohealthandnutritionsciences.com/publications. 


We do not make charitable contributions for purposes of political influence, and all charitable contributions made 
by the PepsiCo Foundation are publicly disclosed in its tax returns. 


The majority of our international cash charitable contributions in 2023 were made through the PepsiCo Foundation, the 
Company's philanthropic arm. The PepsiCo Foundation primarily works with U.S. non-profit organizations such as Charities 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 115 


Shareholder Proposals (Proxy Item Nos. 5-12) 


Aid Foundation America to contribute to various international partners for disaster relief and work in the areas of access to 
food security, safe water and economic opportunity. As a 501(c)(3) private foundation, the PepsiCo Foundation is prohibited 
from engaging in most lobbying and political activities, including directly or indirectly participating or intervening in 
political campaigns on behalf of or in opposition to any political candidate, and does not make charitable contributions for 
purposes of political influence. 


All of the PepsiCo Foundation’s contributions are publicly disclosed on its U.S. tax returns in compliance with federal 
disclosure requirements. In addition, information regarding PepsiCo Foundation’s contributions for the most recent fiscal 
year, including those made to foreign organizations, can be found on our website at www.pepsico.com/our-impact/esg- 
topics-a-z/philanthropy. 


We are committed to continued transparency and addressing input from external stakeholders related to our advocacy on 
global public policy and other related activities. Given our robust public reporting and our current policies and practices, 
which both meet high standards and are reviewed on a regular basis, we believe the report requested by this proposal 
would be redundant and an unnecessary use of time and resources. 


Our Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal. 


116 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Ownership of PepsiCo Common Stock 


Stock Ownership of Officers and Directors 


The following table shows, as of March 1, 2024, the number of shares of our Common Stock beneficially owned and the 
number of phantom units of our Common Stock held in the Company's income deferral programs by each director (including 
each nominee), by each of the NEOs identified in the 2023 Summary Compensation Table on page 68 of this Proxy Statement, 
and by all current directors and executive officers as a group. Each phantom unit represents the economic equivalent of 

one share of our Common Stock. Except as otherwise noted, the directors and executive officers exercise sole voting and 
investment power over their shares shown in the table. None of the shares are subject to pledge. 


As of March 1, 2024, our current directors and executive officers as a group beneficially owned less than 1% of our outstanding 
Common Stock. 


Number of Phantom 

Units of PepsiCo 

Number of Shares of Common Stock Held 
PepsiCo Common Stock __ in PepsiCo’s Deferral 


Name of Individual or Group Beneficially Owned" Programs”) Total 
Segun Agbaje 700 8,266 8,966 
Jennifer Bailey 1,000 2,049 3,049 
James T. Caulfield 44,507 — 44,507 
Cesar Conde 1,000 13,770 14,770 
lan Cook 3,569 39,108 42,677 
Edith W. Cooper 1,075 4,583 5,658 
Susan M. Diamond 1,000 2,049 3,049 
Dina Dublon 2,455 40,504 42,959 
Michelle Gass 1,000 7,845 8,845 
Hugh F. Johnston 41,937 20,664 62,601 
Ramon L. Laguarta 257,186 — 257,186 
Dave J. Lewis 15265 51/2 6,437 
David C. Page 1,000 16,615 17,615 
Robert C. Pohlad®! 1,069,659 15,894 1,085,553 
Silviu Popovici 78,031 — 78,031 
Kirk Tanner 54,849 — 54,849 
Daniel Vasella 14,011 67,406 81,417 
Darren Walker ,000 12,559 13,559 
Alberto Weisser ,000 26,963 27,963 
Steven Williams 64,446 — 64,446 
All current directors and executive officers as a group (23 persons) 1,698,556 265,312 1,963,868 


The shares shown include the following shares that our current directors and executive officers have the right to acquire within 60 days after March 1, 
2024; (1) through the exercise of vested stock options: Mr. Caulfield, 26,181, all directors and executive officers as a group, 48,329 shares; and (2) pursuant 
to other equity awards: Mr. Caulfield, 4,081 shares; Mr. Laguarta, 68,968 shares; Mr. Popovici, 19,008 shares; Mr. Williams, 18,123 and all directors and 
executive officers as a group, 156,930 shares. In addition, the amounts reported include Common Stock equivalent amounts attributed to the following 
executive officers based on their respective holdings in the PepsiCo Savings Plan: Mr. Caulfield, 398 shares; Mr. Williams, 401 shares; and all executive 
officers as a group, 799 shares. 


® Reflects phantom units of our Common Stock held in the PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program and the PepsiCo Director Deferral Program. 


® The shares shown for Robert C. Pohlad include 900,000 shares held in a limited liability company over which Mr. Pohlad has shared voting and 
investment power and 27 shares held indirectly by his spouse. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 117 


Ownership of PepsiCo Common Stock 


Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners 


The following table sets forth information regarding persons or groups known to the Company to be beneficial owners of 
more than 5% of our outstanding Common Stock. 


Number of Shares 
of Common Stock Percent of Class 


Name and Address of Beneficial Owner Beneficially Owned Outstanding” 


Th 


e Vanguard Group 


100 Vanguard Blvd. 
Malvern, PA 19355 131,313,482 9.6% 


BlackRock, Inc. 


50 


Hudson Yards 


New York, NY 10001 111,846,376°) 8.1% 


q) 


(2) 


118 


Based on the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding and entitled to vote at the 2024 Annual Meeting as of our record date, March 1, 2024. 


Based solely on the Schedule 13G/A filed by the Vanguard Group with the SEC on February 13, 2024 regarding its holdings as of December 29, 2023. 
The Vanguard Group also reported that, as of December 29, 2023, it had sole voting power for 0 shares of our Common Stock, sole dispositive power 

or 125,189,385 shares of our Common Stock, shared voting power for 1,803,353 shares of our Common Stock and shared dispositive power for 6,124,097 
shares of our Common Stock. 


Based solely on the Schedule 13G/A filed by BlackRock, Inc. with the SEC on January 25, 2024 regarding its holdings as of December 31, 2023. BlackRock, 
nc. also reported that, as of December 31, 2023, it had sole voting power for 100,895,599 shares of our Common Stock, sole dispositive power for 
111,846,376 shares of our Common Stock and shared voting power for and shared dispositive power for 0 shares of our Common Stock. 


| PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Information About the Annual Meeting 


Voting Procedures 


Who may vote at the Annual Meeting? 


Only shareholders of record of our Common Stock as of the close of business on our record date, March 1, 2024, are entitled 

to receive notice of and to vote at the Annual Meeting and at any postponement or adjournment of the meeting. As of the 
record date, there were 1,374,509,111 shares of our Common Stock outstanding and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting and 
each share of our Common Stock is entitled to one vote. 


How do | vote? 


Whether you are a shareholder of record (that is, if your shares are registered in your own name with our transfer agent) or a 
beneficial owner of shares held in street name (that is, if you hold your shares through a broker, bank or other holder of record), 
you Can vote any one of four ways: 


# Via the Internet Prior to the Annual Meeting. You may vote by visiting www.proxyvote.com and entering the 16-digit control 
number found in the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials (the “Notice of Internet Availability’), proxy card or 
voting instruction form. 


= By Telephone. You may vote by calling the toll-free number found in the proxy card or voting instruction form or provided 
on the website listed on the Notice of Internet Availability. 


By Mail. If you received or requested printed copies of the proxy materials by mail, you may vote by proxy by filling out the 
proxy card (if you are a shareholder of record) or voting instruction form (if you are a beneficial owner) and sending it back in 
the envelope provided. 


Via the Internet During the Annual Meeting. Even if you plan to attend the Annual Meeting, you are encouraged to vote 
beforehand by Internet, telephone or mail. You may also vote during the Annual Meeting (up until the closing of the polls) 
by visiting www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/PEP2024, entering the 16-digit control number found in the Notice of Internet 
Availability, proxy card or voting instruction form and following the instructions available on the website. 


What happens if | do not give specific voting instructions when | deliver 
my proxy? 


= Shareholder of Record. The persons named as proxies will vote your shares in accordance with your instructions. Except 
as noted below with respect to shares held in the PepsiCo Savings Plan, if your properly executed proxy does not contain 
voting instructions, the persons named as proxies will vote your shares in accordance with the voting recommendations of 
the Board. 


Beneficial Owner of Shares Held in Street Name. If you are the beneficial owner of shares held in street name, you have the 
right to direct your bank or broker how to vote your shares, and it is required to vote your shares in accordance with your 
instructions. If you do not give instructions to your bank or brokerage firm, under stock exchange rules, it will nevertheless 
be entitled to vote your shares with respect to “routine” matters, but it will not be permitted to vote your shares with 
respect to “non-routine” matters. In the case of a non-routine matter, your shares will be considered “broker non-votes” on 
that proposal. 


Proxy Item No. 2 (ratification of the appointment of the independent registered public accounting firm) is a matter the 
Company believes will be considered “routine.” 


Proxy Item No. 1 (election of directors), Proxy Item No. 3 (advisory approval of executive compensation), Proxy Item No. 4 
(approval of the amended and restated the PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan) and Proxy Item Nos. 5-12 (shareholder 
proposals) are matters the Company believes will be considered “non-routine.” 


If you are a beneficial owner and do not give voting instructions to your bank or brokerage firm on certain matters, the 
Company believes your bank or broker may vote your shares with respect to Proxy Item No. 2, but not Proxy Item Nos. 1 or 3-12. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 119 


Information About the Annual Meeting 


Can employees who participate in PepsiCo’'s Savings Plan vote? 


Yes. If you are an employee who participates in the PepsiCo Savings Plan (a portion of which constitutes an Employee Stock 
Ownership Plan), you can vote the shares (if any) that are deemed to be in your account in the PepsiCo Savings Plan as of the 
close of business on March 1, 2024. 


To do so, you must sign and return the proxy card or vote by the Internet or telephone, as instructed in the proxy materials 
you received in connection with these shares in the PepsiCo Savings Plan. Voting instructions must be received no later than 
11:59 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on April 28, 2024, so that the trustee (who votes the shares on behalf of the participants of the 
PepsiCo Savings Plan) has adequate time to tabulate the voting instructions. The trustee will vote those shares you instruct. If 
you do not provide voting instructions, the trustee will vote your PepsiCo Savings Plan shares in the same proportion as the 
PepsiCo Savings Plan shares of other participants for which the trustee has received proper voting instructions. 


What constitutes a quorum in order to hold and transact business at the 
Annual Meeting? 

The presence in person or by proxy of the holders of record of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on a matter constitutes 
a quorum for action on that matter. Votes “for” and “against,” “abstentions” and “broker non-votes" will all be counted as present 
to determine whether a quorum has been established. Once a share of the Company's Common Stock is represented for any 


purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and any adjournments of the 
meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for the adjourned meeting. If a quorum is not present at the opening of the 


meeting, the meeting may be adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the votes cast on the motion to adjourn. 


What is the voting requirement to approve each of the proposals? 


Assuming the existence of a quorum at the Annual Meeting: 


= Each director nominated pursuant to Proxy Item No. 1 must receive a vote “for” their election from a majority of the votes cast; 
= For all other matters, the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast is required to approve each proposal. 


Abstentions and broker non-votes are not treated as cast either for or against a matter, and therefore will not affect the 
outcome of the vote. 


Can | revoke my proxy or change my vote after | have voted? 


You may revoke your proxy and change your vote at any time before the final vote at the Annual Meeting by voting again via the 
Internet prior to or during the Annual Meeting or by telephone, by completing, signing, dating and returning a new proxy card or 
voting instruction form with a later date. Only your latest dated proxy we receive at or prior to the Annual Meeting will be counted. 
However, your virtual attendance at the Annual Meeting will not automatically revoke your proxy unless you vote again. 


Who will count the votes? 


We have retained representatives of Broadridge Investor Communication Solutions, Inc. as the inspectors of election to tabulate 
the votes and certify the vote results. 


Where can | find the voting results of the Annual Meeting? 


We expect to announce preliminary voting results at the Annual Meeting. We will also disclose voting results on a Form 8-K 
filed with the SEC within the time period prescribed by SEC rules. 


How are proxies solicited and what is the cost? 


We are providing these proxy materials in connection with the solicitation by our Board of Directors of proxies to be voted at 
our Annual Meeting. We bear all expenses incurred in connection with the solicitations of proxies. We have engaged Innisfree 
M&A Incorporated to solicit proxies for an estimated fee of $18,500, plus expenses. 


In addition to the solicitation of proxies by mail and electronically, PepsiCo intends to ask brokers and bank nominees to solicit 
proxies from their principals and will pay the brokers and bank nominees their expenses for the solicitation. Our directors, 
officers and employees also may solicit proxies by mail, telephone, electronic or facsimile transmission or in person. They will 
not receive any additional compensation for these activities. 


120 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Information About the Annual Meeting 


Attending the Annual Meeting 


How can | attend the Annual Meeting? 


Upon consideration of various factors, including the cost savings and efficiency gains related to annual meetings conducted 
solely by means of remote communications, the increased accessibility for shareholders and other stakeholders afforded by 

a virtual meeting as compared to a physical meeting, and the reduction of the annual meeting's carbon footprint that results 
from not having a physical meeting, we have planned for this year’s Annual Meeting to be a virtual-only meeting. Shareholders 
will not be able to physically attend the Annual Meeting. To be admitted to the virtual 2024 Annual Meeting, you will need 

to log-in to www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/PEP2024 using the 16-digit control number found in the Notice of Internet 
Availability, proxy card or voting instruction form. If you are a beneficial owner of shares, you may contact the bank, broker or 
other institution where you hold your account if you have questions about obtaining your control number. Guests without a 
control number may access the meeting, but will not have the option to vote shares or ask questions. 


The Annual Meeting will begin promptly at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time on May 1, 2024. Online access to the webcast will 
open at approximately 8:45 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time to allow time for you to log-in and test your device's audio system. We 
encourage you to access the meeting in advance of the designated start time. If you encounter any difficulties accessing the 
virtual meeting during the check-in or meeting time, please call the technical support number that will be posted on 
www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/PEP2024. A replay of the Annual Meeting webcast will be available on our website at 
www.pepsico.com in the Investors section after the Annual Meeting for at least 30 days. 


Will | be able to ask questions and participate in the virtual Annual Meeting? 


Shareholders of record and beneficial owners of shares will be able to participate in the Annual Meeting by asking questions 
and voting their shares as outlined above. This year’s shareholders Q&A session will include questions submitted both during 
and in advance of the meeting. You may submit a question beginning approximately two weeks in advance of the meeting 

at www.proxyvote.com after logging in with the 16-digit control number found in the Notice of Internet Availability, proxy card 
or voting instruction form. Questions may be submitted online shortly prior to, and during, the Annual Meeting by logging in 
with the 16-digit control number at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/PEP2024. We will answer questions during the Annual 
Meeting that are pertinent to the Company as time permits. If we receive substantially similar written questions, we plan to 
group such questions together and provide a single response to avoid repetition and allow time for additional question topics. 
For appropriate questions that are not otherwise addressed during the 2024 Annual Meeting, we will publish our responses on 
our Investor Relations site after the meeting or communicate the relevant response directly to the submitting shareholder. 


Additional information regarding the rules and procedures for participating in the virtual Annual Meeting will be provided in 
our rules of conduct for the Annual Meeting, which shareholders can view during the meeting at the meeting website. 


2024 Proxy Materials 


Why am | receiving these proxy materials? 


Our Board of Directors has made these materials available to you on the Internet or has delivered printed versions of these 
materials to you by mail in connection with the Board of Directors’ solicitation of proxies for use at our Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders. As a shareholder, you are invited to attend the Annual Meeting and are requested to vote on the items of 
business described in this Proxy Statement. 


What is included in these materials? 


These proxy materials include: 
= this Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting; and 
= our 2023 Annual Report. 


If you received printed versions of these materials by mail, these materials also include the proxy card or voting instruction form 
for the Annual Meeting. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 121 


Information About the Annual Meeting 


Why did | receive a Notice of Internet Availability in the mail instead of printed 
proxy materials? 


In accordance with SEC rules, instead of mailing a printed copy of our proxy materials to all of our shareholders, we have elected 
to furnish such materials to selected shareholders by providing access to these documents over the Internet. Accordingly, on or 
about March 22, 2024, we sent a Notice of Internet Availability to most of our shareholders. 


These shareholders have the ability to access the proxy materials on a website referred to in the Notice of Internet Availability 
or request to receive a printed set of the proxy materials by calling the toll-free number or emailing the address found on the 
Notice of Internet Availability. We encourage you to take advantage of the availability of the proxy materials on the Internet in 
order to help save natural resources and reduce the cost to print and distribute the proxy materials. 


How can | get electronic access to the proxy materials? 
The Notice of Internet Availability provides you with instructions regarding how to: 


= view our proxy materials for the Annual Meeting on the Internet; 

= vote your shares after you have viewed our proxy materials; 

= request a printed copy of the proxy materials; and 

= instruct us to send our future proxy materials to you electronically by email. 


PepsiCo will plant a tree for every shareholder that signs up for electronic delivery. Choosing to receive your 
future proxy materials by email will lower our costs of delivery and will help reduce the environmental impact 
of our Annual Meeting. Since 2016, we have planted nearly 89,082 trees based on the number of shareholders 

who have signed up for electronic delivery. 


Copies of the proxy materials are available for viewing at www.pepsico.com/proxy24. 


You may have received proxy materials by email. Even if you received a printed copy of our proxy materials, you may choose 
to receive future proxy materials by email. If you do so, you will receive an email next year with instructions containing a link to 
view those proxy materials and a link to the proxy voting site. Your election to receive proxy materials by email will remain in 
effect until you terminate it or for so long as the email address provided by you is valid. 


What is "householding"? 


If you are a beneficial owner, your bank or broker may deliver a single Proxy Statement and Annual Report, along with individual 
proxy cards, or individual Notices of Internet Availability to any household at which two or more shareholders reside unless 
contrary instructions have been received from you. This procedure, referred to as householding, reduces the volume of duplicate 
materials shareholders receive and reduces mailing expenses. Shareholders may revoke their consent to future householding 
mailings or enroll in householding by contacting Broadridge at 1-866-540-7095, or by writing to Broadridge, Householding 
Department, 51 Mercedes Way, Edgewood, New York 11717. Alternatively, if you wish to receive a separate set of proxy materials 
for this year’s Annual Meeting, we will deliver them promptly upon request to PepsiCo’s Manager of Shareholder Relations at 
PepsiCo, Inc., 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 or (914) 253-3055 or ir@pepsico.com. 


Where can | find the Annual Report? 


The 2023 Annual Report to Shareholders, including financial statements, was delivered or made available with this 
Proxy Statement. 


A copy of PepsiCo’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023 (including the financial 
statements, schedules and a list of exhibits) will be sent without charge upon the request of any shareholder to PepsiCo’s 
Manager of Shareholder Relations at PepsiCo, Inc., 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 or ir@pepsico.com. You 
also may obtain our Annual Report on Form 10-K over the Internet on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, or on our website at 
www.pepsico.com under “Investors” — “Financial Information"—"SEC Filings." 


122 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Information About the Annual Meeting 


Other Matters 


The Board of Directors knows of no other matters to be brought before the Annual Meeting. If any other business should 
properly come before the Annual Meeting or any postponement or adjournment thereof, the persons named in the proxy will 
vote on such matters according to their best judgment. 


2025 Shareholder Proposals and Director Nominations 


Shareholder Proposals for Inclusion in the Proxy Statement for the 2025 
Annual Meeting 


PepsiCo welcomes comments or suggestions from its shareholders. If a shareholder wishes to have a proposal formally 
considered at the 2025 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and included in the Company's Proxy Statement for that meeting, 
we must receive the proposal in writing on or before the close of business on November 22, 2024 and the proposal must 
otherwise comply with Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act. 


Director Nominations for Inclusion in the Proxy Statement for the 2025 
Annual Meeting 


The Board has implemented a proxy access provision in our By-Laws, which allows a shareholder or group of up to 20 
shareholders owning in aggregate three percent or more of our outstanding Common Stock continuously for at least three 
years to nominate and include in our proxy materials director nominees constituting up to 20% of the number of directors 

in office or two nominees, whichever is greater, provided the shareholder(s) and nominee(s) satisfy the requirements in the 
By-Laws. If a shareholder or group of shareholders wishes to nominate one or more director candidates to be included in 

the Company's Proxy Statement for the 2025 Annual Meeting of Shareholders pursuant to these proxy access provisions in 
Section 2.9 of our By-Laws, we must receive proper written notice of any such nomination no earlier than the close of business 
on October 23, 2024 and no later than the close of business on November 22, 2024, and the nomination must otherwise 
comply with our By-Laws. If, however, the 2025 Annual Meeting is not within 30 days before or 60 days after the anniversary 
of this year’s Annual Meeting, we must receive such notice no earlier than the close of business on the 150th day prior to such 
meeting and no later than the close of business on the later of the 120th day prior to such meeting or the 10th day following 
the public announcement of the meeting date. 


Other Proposals or Director Nominations for Presentation at the 2025 
Annual Meeting 


Under our By-Laws, if a shareholder wishes to present other business or nominate a director candidate at the 2025 Annual 
Meeting of Shareholders, we must receive proper written notice of any such business or nomination no earlier than the close of 
business on January 1, 2025 and no later than the close of business on January 31, 2025. If, however, the 2025 Annual Meeting 

is not within 30 days before or 60 days after the anniversary of this year's Annual Meeting, we must receive such notice no 
earlier than the close of business on the 120" day prior to such meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of 
the 90" day prior to such meeting or the 10" day following the public announcement of the meeting date. Any such notice 
must include the information specified in the By-Laws. If a shareholder does not meet these deadlines, or does not satisfy the 
requirements of Rule 14a-4 of the Exchange Act, the persons named as proxies will be allowed to use their discretionary voting 
authority when and if the matter is raised at the 2025 Annual Meeting. 


In addition to satisfying the advance notice provisions in our By-Laws relating to nominations of director candidates, including 
the earlier notice deadlines set out above, to comply with the SEC's universal proxy rule, shareholders who intend to solicit 
proxies in support of director nominees other than the Company’s nominees in compliance with Rule 14a-19 under the 
Exchange Act must also provide notice that sets forth the information required by Rule 14a-19 no later than March 3, 2025. If 
the date of the 2025 Annual Meeting changes by more than 30 calendar days from the date of this year’s Annual Meeting, 
such notice must instead be provided by the later of 60 calendar days prior to the date of the 2025 Annual Meeting or the 10th 
calendar day following public announcement by the Company of the date of the 2025 Annual Meeting. 


All notices of proposals or nominations, as applicable, must be addressed to the Corporate Secretary of PepsiCo at 700 
Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | 123 


This page is intentionally left blank. 


Appendix A - Reconciliation of GAAP and 
Non-GAAP Information 


($ in millions, except per share amounts; unaudited) 


Organic revenue growth, core constant currency operating profit growth, core constant currency net income growth,' core 
EPS growth, core constant currency EPS growth,’ free cash flow, and free cash flow excluding certain items are non-GAAP 
financial measures. We use these non-GAAP financial measures internally to make operating and strategic decisions, including 
the preparation of our annual operating plan and evaluation of our overall business performance and as compensation 
performance measures. We believe presenting non-GAAP financial measures provides additional information to facilitate 
comparison of our historical operating results and trends in our underlying operating results, and provides additional 
transparency on how we evaluate our business. We also believe presenting these measures allows investors to view our 
performance using the same measures that we use in evaluating our financial and business performance and trends. 


We consider quantitative and qualitative factors in assessing whether to adjust for the impact of items that may be significant 
or that could affect an understanding of our ongoing financial and business performance or trends. Examples of items for 
which we may make adjustments include: amounts related to mark-to-market gains or losses (non-cash); charges related to 
restructuring plans; charges associated with acquisitions and divestitures; gains associated with divestitures; asset impairment 
charges (non-cash); product recall-related impact; pension and retiree medical-related amounts, including all settlement and 
curtailment gains and losses; charges or adjustments related to the enactment of new laws, rules or regulations, such as tax 
law changes; amounts related to the resolution of tax positions; tax benefits related to reorganizations of our operations; debt 
redemptions, cash tender or exchange offers; and remeasurements of net monetary assets. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2021, 
certain immaterial pension and retiree medical-related settlement and curtailment gains and losses were not considered items 
affecting comparability. Pension and retiree medical-related service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and 
other net periodic pension costs continue to be reflected in our core results. See below for a description of adjustments to our 
GAAP financial measures included herein. 


Non-GAAP information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or 
as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, our non-GAAP financial 
measures may not be the same as or comparable to similar non-GAAP measures presented by other companies. 


Glossary 


We use the following definitions when referring to our non-GAAP financial measures: 


Acquisitions and divestitures: mergers and acquisition activity, as well as divestitures and other structural changes, including 
changes in ownership or control in consolidated subsidiaries and nonconsolidated equity investees. 


Constant currency: Financial results assuming constant foreign currency exchange rates used for translation based on the rates 
in effect for the comparable prior-year period. In order to compute our constant currency results, we multiply or divide, as 
appropriate, our current-year U.S. dollar results by the current-year average foreign exchange rates and then multiply or divide, 
as appropriate, those amounts by the prior-year average foreign exchange rates. 


Core: Core results are non-GAAP financial measures which exclude certain items from our historical results. For further 
information regarding these excluded items, refer to “Items Affecting Comparability” in “Iter 7 — Management's Discussion 
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Forms 10-K for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2023, 
December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021, December 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019. For the periods presented, core results 
exclude the following items: 


' Refers to core constant currency net income attributable to PepsiCo growth. 


2 For compensation performance measurement purposes, 2020 growth excludes the impact of COVID-19-related charges such as costs related to 
expanded benefits and frontline incentives, the provision of personal protective equipment and increased sanitation, allowances for expected credit 
losses, upfront payment reserves, and inventory write-downs. For further information regarding these 2020 COVID-19 charges, refer to pages 31-33 and 
68 of PepsiCo’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2021. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | A-1 


Appendix A - Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Information 


= Mark-to-Market Net Impact: Mark-to-market net gains and losses on commodity derivatives in corporate unallocated 
expenses. These gains and losses are subsequently reflected in division results when the divisions recognize the cost of the 
underlying commodity in operating profit. 


= Restructuring and Impairment Charges: Expenses related to the multi-year productivity plan publicly announced in 2019, which 
was expanded and extended through the end of 2028 to take advantage of additional opportunities within the initiatives of 
the plan. 


= Acquisition and divestiture-related charges: Acquisition and divestiture-related charges primarily include fair value adjustments 
to the acquired inventory included in the acquisition-date balance sheets, merger and integration charges and costs 
associated with divestitures. Merger and integration charges include liabilities to support socioeconomic programs in South 
Africa, gains associated with contingent consideration, employee-related costs, contract termination costs, closing costs and 
other integration costs. Divestiture-related charges reflect transaction expenses, including consulting, advisory and other 
professional fees. 


= Gain associated with the Juice Transaction: In the first quarter of 2022, we sold our Tropicana, Naked and other select juice 
brands to PAI Partners for $3.5 billion in cash and a 39% noncontrolling interest in a newly formed joint venture, Tropicana 
Brands Group (TBG) operating across North America and Europe Uuice Transaction). We recognized a gain associated with 
the Juice Transaction in our PBNA and Europe divisions. 


= /mpairment and other charges: We recognized Russia-Ukraine conflict charges, brand portfolio impairment charges and other 
impairment charges as described below. 


Russia-Ukraine conflict charges: |n connection with the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, we recognized charges related to 
indefinite-lived intangible assets and property, plant and equipment impairment, allowance for expected credit losses, 
inventory write-downs and other costs. We also recognized adjustments to the charges recorded in 2022. 


Brand portfolio impairment charges: We recognized intangible asset, investment and property, plant and equipment 
impairments and other charges as a result of management's decision to reposition or discontinue the sale/distribution of 
certain brands and to sell an investment. We also recognized adjustments to the charges recorded in 2022. 


Other impairment charges: We recognized impairment charges taken as a result of our quantitative assessments of certain of 
our indefinite-lived intangible assets and related to our investment in TBG. 


= Product recall-related impact: We recognized product returns, inventory write-offs and customer and consumer-related costs 
in our OFNA division associated with a voluntary recall of certain bars and cereals. 


= Pension and retiree medical-related impact: Pension and retiree medical-related impact primarily includes settlement charges 
related to lump sum distributions exceeding the total of annual service and interests costs and the purchase of a group 
annuity contract, as well as curtailment gains. 


= Charge related to cash tender offers: As a result of the cash tender offers for some of our long-term debt, we recorded a charge 
primarily representing the tender price paid over the carrying value of the tendered notes and loss on treasury rate locks 
used to mitigate the interest rate risk on the cash tender offers. 


= Tax benefit related to the IRS audit: We recognized a non-cash tax benefit resulting from our agreement with the Internal 
Revenue Service (IRS) to settle one of the issues assessed in the 2014 through 2016 tax audit. The agreement covers tax years 
2014 through 2019. 


= Net tax related to the TC/Act: During the fourth quarter of 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJ Act) was enacted in the United 
States. In periods subsequent to the enactment of the TCJ Act, we recognized adjustments to the mandatory transition tax 
liability associated therewith. 


Organic revenue growth: A measure that adjusts for the impacts of foreign exchange translation, acquisitions and divestitures, 
and where applicable, the impact of an additional week of results (53rd reporting week), including in our fourth quarter 2022 
financial results. Adjusting for acquisitions and divestitures reflects mergers and acquisitions activity, including the impact in 
2021 of an extra month of net revenue for our acquisitions of Pioneer Foods in our Africa, Middle East and South Asia (AMESA) 
division and Be & Cheery in our Asia Pacific, Australia and New Zealand and China Region (APAC) division as we aligned the 
reporting calendars of these acquisitions with those of our divisions, as well as divestitures and other structural changes, 
including changes in ownership or control in consolidated subsidiaries and nonconsolidated equity investees. We believe 
organic revenue growth provides useful information in evaluating the results of our business because it excludes items that we 
believe are not indicative of ongoing performance or that we believe impact comparability with the prior year. 


A-2 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Appendix A - Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Information 


Free cash flow and free cash flow excluding certain items: Net cash provided by operating activities less capital spending, plus sales 
of property, plant and equipment. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and maintaining 
our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe investors should 
also consider net capital soending when evaluating our cash from operating activities. Free cash flow is used by us primarily 
for acquisitions and financing activities, including debt repayments, dividends and share repurchases. Free cash flow is not 

a measure of cash available for discretionary expenditures since we have certain non-discretionary obligations such as debt 
service that are not deducted from the measure. Free cash flow excluding certain items (i.e, items that may be significant or 
that could affect an understanding of our ongoing financial and business performance or trends — see Net Cash Provided by 
Operating Activities Reconciliation table below) is a compensation performance measure used by management. We believe 
investors should also consider these certain items in evaluating our free cash flow results. 


For more information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, including further information on the excluded items for 
the years ended 2023, 2022, 2021, 2020 and 2019, see pages 46-51 and 53 of PepsiCo’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 

fiscal year ended December 30, 2023, pages 44-49 and 52 of PepsiCo’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2022, pages 43-48 and 51 of PepsiCo’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2021, 
pages 42-46 and 49 of PepsiCo’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 2020 and pages 57-62 and 
64 of PepsiCo’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019, respectively. 


PepsiCo Net Revenue Growth Reconciliation 


Year Ended 


2021-2023 Three-year 
Growth Average” 12/30/2023 12/31/2022 12/25/2021 


Reported net revenue growth, GAAP measure 9% 6% 9% 13% 
Impact of: 
Foreign exchange translation 2 3 (1) 
Acquisitions and divestitures = 4 (2) 
53% reporting week 1 (1) — 
Organic revenue growth, non-GAAP measure 11% 9% 14% 10% 


® Average percentage is based on unrounded amounts. 
®) A financial measure that is not in accordance with GAAP. See pages A-1 - A-3 for further discussion on non-GAAP measures. 


Note - Certain amounts above may not sum due to rounding. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | A-3 


Appendix A - Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Information 


PepsiCo Net Revenue Growth Reconciliation 


Impact of 
Reported 
net revenue Foreign Acquisitions Organic revenue 
growth, exchange and 53reporting growth, non-GAAP 
GAAP measure translation divestitures week measure® 
Quarter ended 12/30/2023 (0.5)% LP) — 3 45% 
Quarter ended 9/9/2023 7% 2 — — 9% 
Quarter ended 6/17/2023 10% 25 — — 3% 
Quarter ended 3/25/2023 10% 2.5 2 — 4% 
Quarter ended 12/31/2022 11% 3 4 (4) 5% 
Quarter ended 9/3/2022 9% 3 4 — 6% 
Quarter ended 6/11/2022 5% 3 5 — 3% 
Quarter ended 3/19/2022 9% 1 3 — 4% 
Quarter ended 12/25/2021 12% — (0.5) — 2% 
Quarter ended 9/4/2021 12% (2) (1) — 9% 
Quarter ended 6/12/2021 21% (3) (4) — 3% 
Diluted EPS Performance Reconciliation 
Year Ended 

2021-2023 

Three-year 

Growth 


Average® 12/30/2023 12/31/2022 12/25/2021 12/26/2020 


Reported diluted EPS performance, GAAP measure 9% 2% 17% 7% (2)% 

Impact of: 
Mark-to-market net impact — 0.5 1 — 
Restructuring and impairment charges — 2 — (1) 
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges (0.5) ] (3) 3 
Gain associated with the Juice Transaction 30 (44) — — 
Impairment and other charges (21) 45 — — 
Product recall-related impact 1 _— — — 
Pension and retiree medical-related impact (2) 3.5 (2) (1) 
Charge related to cash tender offers — (10) 8 — 
Tax benefit related to the IRS audit 3 (5) _ — 
Net tax related to the TCJ Act (1) (2) 2 — 

Core diluted EPS growth, non-GAAP measure® 12% 9% 13% —% 
Impact of foreign exchange translation 2 2 (1.5) 2 

Core constant currency diluted EPS growth, non-GAAP measure® 12% 14% 11% 12% 2% 
Impact of excluding COVID-19 charges 8 

Core constant currency diluted EPS growth, excluding above item, 

non-GAAP measure” 10% 


® A financial measure that is not in accordance with GAAP. See pages A-1 - A-3 for further discussion on non-GAAP measures. 


() Average percentage is based on unrounded amounts. 
Note - Certain amounts above may not sum due to rounding. 


A-4 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Appendix A - Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Information 


Diluted EPS Reconciliation 


Year Ended 
12/30/2023 12/28/2019 Change 
Reported diluted EPS, GAAP measure $6.56 $5.20 26% 
ark-to-market net impact 0.02 (0.06) 
Restructuring and impairment charges 0.25 0.21 
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges 0.02 0.03 
mpairment and other charges 0.68 — 
Product recall-related impact 0.07 _ 
Pension and retiree medical-related impact 0.01 0.15 
et tax related to the TCJ Act a (0.01) 
Core diluted EPS, non-GAAP measure” $7.62 $5.53 38% 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Reconciliation 
Year Ended 
12/30/2023 
Net cash provided by operating activities, GAAP measure $13,442 
Capital spending (5,518) 
Sales of property, plant and equipment 98 
Free cash flow, non-GAAP measure® 8,122 
Discretionary pension and retiree medical contributions 267 
et cash tax benefit related to discretionary pension and retiree medical contributions 60) 
Payments related to restructuring charges 435 
et cash tax benefit related to restructuring charges 97) 
Tax payments related to the TCJ Act 309 
Payments related to acquisition and divestiture-related charges Al 
et cash tax benefit related to acquisition and divestiture-related charges (10) 
Change in futures variation margin 95 
Payments related to impairment and other charges 13 
Free cash flow excluding certain items, non-GAAP measure®’ $ 9,114 


® A financial measure that is not in accordance with GAAP. See pages A-1 - A-3 for further discussion on non-GAAP measures. 


Note - Certain amounts above may not sum due to rounding. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | A-5 


Appendix A - Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Information 


Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo Growth Reconciliation 


Year Ended 
12/30/2023 
Net income attributable to PepsiCo growth, GAAP measure 2% 
Impact of: 
Mark-to-market net impact — 
Restructuring and impairment charges — 
Acquisition and divestiture-related charges (0.5 
Gain associated with the Juice Transaction 30 
mpairment and other charges (21 
Product-recall related impact ] 
Pension and retiree medical-related impact (2 
Tax benefit related to the IRS Audit 3 
et tax related to the TC) Act @ 
Core net income attributable to PepsiCo growth, non-GAAP measure® 12% 
mpact of foreign exchange translation 2 
Core constant currency net income attributable to PepsiCo growth, non-GAAP measure” 14% 
Net Revenue Performance Reconciliation 
Year Ended 
12/30/2023 
Global 
North Global Convenient 
FLNA QFNA PBNA America International Beverages Foods 
Reported net revenue performance, GAAP measure 7% = (2)% 5% 6% 6% 4% 7% 
Impact of: 
Foreign exchange translation 5 3 ] 
Acquisitions and divestitures ] — 0.5 
539 reporting week 2 2 15 2 — 1 1 
Organic revenue growth, non-GAAP measure’ 9% 1% 7% 8% 12% 8% 10% 
Operating Profit Performance Reconciliation 
Year Ended 
12/30/2023 


FLNA QFNA PBNA 


Reported operating profit performance, GAAP measure 


10% (19)% (52)% 


Impact of: 


Restructuring and impairment charges 


Acquisition and divestiture-related charges 


Gain associated with the Juice Transaction 


Impairment and other charges 


Product recall-related impact 


Core operating profit growth, non-GAAP measure®’ 


Impact of foreign exchange translation 


Core constant currency operating profit growth, non-GAAP measure” 


® A financial measure that is not in accordance with GAAP. See pages A-1 - A-3 for further discussion on non-GAAP measures. 


Note - Certain amounts above may not sum due to rounding. 


A-6 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Appendix B - PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


1. Purposes. 

The purposes of the Plan are to provide long-term incentives to those persons with significant responsibility for the success 
and growth of PepsiCo and its subsidiaries, divisions and affiliated businesses, to associate the interests of such persons 
with those of PepsiCo’s shareholders, to assist PepsiCo in recruiting, retaining and motivating a diverse group of employees 
and non-employee directors on a competitive basis, and to ensure a pay-for-performance linkage for such employees and 
non-employee directors. 


2. Definitions. 
For purposes of the Plan, the following capitalized terms shall have the meanings specified below: 


a. “Award” means a grant of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Shares, Restricted Stock Units, Performance 
Shares, Performance Units, Stock Awards, or any or all of them (but a Stock Award may not be granted to employees 
or officers). 

“Board” means the Board of Directors of PepsiCo. 

“Cause” has the meaning set forth in Section 11(b)(ii). 

“Change in Control” has the meaning set forth in Section 11(b)(i). 

“Change-in-Control Treatment” has the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(ii). 

“Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any reference to a section of the Code shall also be a 

reference to any successor section of the Code (or a successor code). 

g. “Committee” means, with respect to any matter relating to Section 8 of the Plan, the Board, and with respect to all 
other matters under the Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board. The Compensation Committee shall be 
appointed by the Board and shall consist of two or more independent, non-employee members of the Board. In the 
judgment of the Board, the Compensation Committee shall be qualified to administer the Plan as contemplated by 
(a) Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act, (b) Code Section 162(m) and the regulations thereunder, and (c) any rules and 
regulations of a stock exchange on which Common Stock is traded. Any member of the Compensation Committee 
of the Board who does not satisfy the qualifications set out in the preceding sentence may recuse himself or herself 
from any vote or other action taken by the Compensation Committee of the Board. 


m~ oar dt 


h. “Common Stock” means the common stock, par value 1-2/3 cents per share, of PepsiCo. 

i. “Company” means PepsiCo, its subsidiaries, divisions and affiliated businesses. 

ik “Covered Employee” means any PepsiCo employee for whom PepsiCo is subject to the deductibility limitation 
imposed by Code Section 162(m). 

k. “Director Deferral Program” means the PepsiCo Director Deferral Program, as amended from time to time, and any 


successor program. 

I. “Eligible Person” means any of the following individuals who is designated by the Committee as eligible to receive 
Awards, subject to the conditions set forth in the Plan: (i) any employee of the Company (including any officer of 
the Company and any Employee Director) provided that the term employee does not include any individual who is 
not, as of the grant date of an Award, classified by the Company as an employee on its corporate books and records 
even if that individual is later reclassified (by the Company, any court, any governmental agency or otherwise) as an 
employee as of the grant date; (ii) any consultant or advisor of the Company; and (iii) any Non-Employee Director 
who is eligible to receive an Award in accordance with Section 8 hereof. 


m. “Employee Director” means a member of the Board who is also an employee of the Company. 
n. “Exchange Act” means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and any successor thereto. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | B-1 


Appendix B - PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


— 


N«<K x s < 


da. 


ab. 
ac. 


ad. 


ae. 


af. 


ag. 
ah. 


“Fair Market Value” on any date means the average of the high and low market prices at which a share of Common 
Stock shall have been sold on such date, or the immediately preceding trading day if such date was not a trading 
day, as reported on the principal exchange on which the Common Stock is traded as of the time in question and, 

in the case of an ISO, means fair market value as determined by the Committee in accordance with Code Section 
422 and, in the case of an Option or SAR that is intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A, fair market value as 
determined by the Committee in accordance with Code Section 409A. 


“Full-Value Award” means any Restricted Shares, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units or 
Stock Awards. 


“Good Reason” has the meaning set forth in Section 11 (b)(iii). 
“ISO” means an Option satisfying the requirements of Code Section 422 and designated as an ISO by the Committee. 
“Non-Employee Director” means a member of the Board who is not an employee of the Company. 


“NQSO" or “Non-Qualified Stock Option” means an Option that does not satisfy the requirements of Code Section 
422 or that is not designated as an ISO by the Committee. 


“Option Exercise Price” means the purchase price per share of Common Stock covered by an Option granted 
pursuant to the Plan. 


“Options” means the right to purchase shares of Common Stock at a specified price for a specified period of time. 
“Participant” means an Eligible Person who has received an Award under the Plan. 

“Payment Shares” has the meaning set forth in Section 8(b). 

“PepsiCo” means PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina corporation, and its successors and assigns. 


“Performance Awards” means an Award of Options, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Restricted Shares, 
Restricted Stock Units or SARs conditioned on the achievement of Performance Goals during a Performance Period. 


“Performance-Based Exception” means, with respect to Awards granted on or before November 2, 2017, the 
performance-based exception to the deductibility limitations of Code Section 162(m), as set forth in Code 
Section 162(m)(4)(C) as in effect for tax years beginning before January 1, 2018. 


“Performance Goals” means the goals established by the Committee under Section 7(d). 


“Performance Measures” means the criteria set out in Section 7(d) that may be used by the Committee as the basis 
for a Performance Goal. 


“Performance Period” means the period established by the Committee during which the achievement of 
Performance Goals is assessed in order to determine whether and to what extent an Award that is conditioned on 
attaining Performance Goals has been earned. 


“Performance Shares” means an Award of shares of Common Stock awarded to a Participant based on the 
achievement of Performance Goals during a Performance Period. 


“Performance Units” means an Award denominated in shares of Common Stock, cash or a combination thereof, as 
determined by the Committee, awarded to a Participant based on the achievement of Performance Goals during a 
Performance Period. 


“Plan” means this PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated from time to time. 


“Prior Plans” means the PepsiCo, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the PepsiCo, Inc. 1994 Long-Term Incentive 
Plan, the PepsiCo, Inc. 1995 Stock Option Incentive Plan, the PepsiCo SharePower Stock Option Plan, the Director 
Stock Plan, the PepsiCo 1987 Incentive Plan, PBG 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan, PBG 2002 Long Term Incentive Plan, 
PBG Long Term Incentive Plan, The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. 1999 Long Term Incentive Plan, PBG Directors’ Stock 
Plan, PBG Stock Incentive Plan, PepsiAmericas, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, Quaker Long Term Incentive Plan of 
1990, Quaker Long Term Incentive Plan of 1999 and Quaker Stock Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, each as 
amended and restated from time to time. 


B-2 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


ai. 


aj. 


ak. 


al. 


am. 


Appendix B - PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


“Restricted Shares” means shares of Common Stock that are subject to such restrictions and such other terms and 
conditions as the Committee may establish. 


“Restricted Stock Units” means the right, as described in Section 7(0), to receive an amount, payable in either cash, 
shares of Common Stock or a combination thereof, equal to the value of a specified number of shares of Common 
Stock, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may establish. 


“Restriction Period” means, with respect to Options, SARs, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Restricted Shares, 
Restricted Stock Units or Stock Awards, the period during which any risk of forfeiture or other restrictions set by the 
Committee remain in effect. Such restrictions remain in effect until such time as they have lapsed under the terms 
and conditions of the Options, SARs, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Restricted Shares, Restricted Stock 
Units or Stock Awards or as otherwise determined by the Committee. 


“Stock Appreciation Rights” or “SARs” means the right to receive a payment equal to the excess of the Fair Market 
Value of a share of Common Stock on the date the Stock Appreciation Rights are exercised over the exercise price 
per share of Common Stock established for those Stock Appreciation Rights at the time of grant, multiplied by the 
number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Rights are exercised. 


“Stock Award” means an Award of shares of Common Stock, including Payment Shares, that are subject to such 
terms, conditions and restrictions (if any) as determined by the Committee in accordance with Section 7(e). 


3. Administration of the Plan. 


a. 


Authority of Committee. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have all the powers vested in it 
by the terms of the Plan, such powers to include the authority (within the limitations described in the Plan): 


= toselect the persons to be granted Awards under the Plan; 
= to determine the type, size and terms of Awards to be made to each Participant; 


= to determine the time when Awards are to be granted and any conditions that must be satisfied before an 
Award is granted; 


= toestablish objectives and conditions for earning Awards; 


= to determine whether an Award shall be evidenced by an agreement and, if so, to determine the terms 
and conditions of such agreement (which shall not be inconsistent with the Plan) and who must sign 
such agreement; 


= to determine whether the conditions for earning an Award have been met and whether an Award will be paid 
at the end of an applicable Performance Period; 


= except as otherwise provided in Sections 7(a)(v), 7(b)(iv), 7(d) and 13(b), to modify the terms of Awards made 
under the Plan; 


= to determine if, when and under what conditions payment of all or any part of an Award may be deferred; 
= to determine whether the amount or payment of an Award should be reduced or eliminated; 
= to determine the guidelines and/or procedures for the payment or exercise of Awards; and 


= ~~ to determine whether an Award should qualify, regardless of its amount, as deductible in its entirety for federal 
income tax purposes, including whether any Awards granted under the Plan on or before November 2, 2017 to 
Covered Employees or any other employee should comply with the Performance-Based Exception. 


Interpretation of Plan. The Committee shall have full power and authority to administer and interpret the Plan and 

to adopt or establish such rules, regulations, agreements, guidelines, procedures and instruments, which are not 
contrary to the terms of the Plan and which, in its opinion, may be necessary or advisable for the administration and 
operation of the Plan. The Committee's interpretations of the Plan, and all actions taken and determinations made 
by the Committee pursuant to the powers vested in it hereunder, shall be conclusive and binding on all parties 
concerned, including PepsiCo, its shareholders and all Eligible Persons and Participants. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | B-3 


Appendix B - PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


c. Delegation of Authority. To the extent not prohibited by law, the Committee (i) may delegate its authority hereunder 
to one or more of its members or other persons (except that no such delegation shall be permitted with respect to 
Awards to Eligible Persons who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act and Awards granted under the Plan on 
or before November 2, 2017 that are intended to comply with the Performance-Based Exception) and (ii) may grant 
authority to employees or designate employees of the Company to execute documents on behalf of the Committee 
or to otherwise assist the Committee in the administration and operation of the Plan. 


4. Eligibility. 

a. General. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select from all 
Eligible Persons those to whom Awards shall be granted under Section 7 and shall determine the nature and 

amount of each Award. Non-Employee Directors shall be eligible to receive Awards only pursuant to Section 8. 


b. International Participants. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in order to foster and promote 
achievement of the purposes of the Plan or to comply with provisions of the laws in countries outside the United 
States in which the Company operates or has employees, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power 
and authority to (i) determine which Eligible Persons (if any) employed by the Company outside the United States 
should participate in the Plan, (ii) modify the terms and conditions of any Awards made to such Eligible Persons, and 
(iii) establish sub-plans, modified Option exercise procedures and other Award terms, conditions and procedures 
to the extent such actions may be necessary or advisable to comply with provisions of the laws in such countries 
outside the United States in order to assure the lawfulness, validity and effectiveness of Awards granted under 
the Plan and to the extent such actions are consistent with the Committee's authority to amend the Plan absent 
shareholder approval pursuant to Sections 13(b), 7(a)(v) and 7(b)(iv). 


5. Shares of Common Stock Subject to the Plan. 


a. Authorized Number of Shares. Unless otherwise authorized by PepsiCo's shareholders and subject to the provisions of 
this Section 5 and Section 10, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance 
under the Plan as of May 1, 2024 shall be the total of (i) 270 million shares plus (ii) the total number of shares of 
Common Stock underlying awards under the Prior Plans that are cancelled or expire after May 2, 2007 without 
delivery of shares. 


b. Share Counting. The following rules shall apply in determining the number of shares of Common Stock remaining 
available for grant under the Plan: 


i. Any shares of Common Stock subject to (A) Options or SARs, whether granted before or after May 5, 2010 or 
(B) Full-Value Awards granted before May 5, 2010 shall be counted against the maximum share limitation of 
Section 5(a) as one (1) share of Common Stock for every share of Common Stock subject thereto. Any shares 
of Common Stock subject to Full-Value Awards granted on or after May 5, 2010 shall be counted against the 
maximum share limitation of Section 5(a) as three (3) shares of Common Stock for every share of Common 
Stock subject thereto. Awards that by their terms do not permit settlement in shares of Common Stock shall not 
reduce the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan. 


i. (A) Tothe extent that any Award of Options or SARs, whether granted before, on or after May 5, 2010, is 
forfeited, cancelled, settled in cash rather than shares (pursuant to the terms of an Award that permits but 
does not require cash settlement), returned to the Company for failure to satisfy vesting requirements or other 
conditions of the Award, or otherwise terminates without an issuance of shares of Common Stock being made 
thereunder, the maximum share limitation of Section 5(a) shall be credited with one (1) share of Common Stock 
for each share of Common Stock subject to such Award of Options or SARs, and such number of credited shares 
of Common Stock may again be made subject to Awards under the Plan, subject to the foregoing maximum 
share limitation. 


(B) To the extent that any Full-Value Award granted on or after May 5, 2010 is forfeited, cancelled, settled in 
cash rather than shares (pursuant to the terms of an Award that permits but does not require cash settlement), 
returned to the Company for failure to satisfy vesting requirements or other conditions of the Award, or 
otherwise terminates without an issuance of shares of Common Stock being made thereunder, the maximum 
share limitation of Section 5(a) shall be credited with three (3) shares of Common Stock for each share of 
Common Stock subject to such Full-Value Award and such number of credited shares of Common Stock may 
again be made subject to Awards under the Plan, subject to the foregoing maximum share limitation. 


B-4 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


(©) 


otherwise terminates without an issuance of sh 


Appendix B - PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


To the extent that any Full-Value Award granted before May 5, 2010 is forfeited, cancelled, settled in cash 
rather than shares (pursuant to the terms of an Award that permits but does not require cash settlement), 
returned to the Company for failure to satisfy vesting requirements or other conditions of the Award, or 


ares of Common Stock being made thereun 


der, the maximum 


share limitation of Section 5(a) shall be credited with one (1) share of Common Stock for each share of Common 
Stock subject to such Full-Value Award, and such number of credited shares of Common Stock may again be 


made subject to Awards under the Plan subjec 


An 
Ww 
no 


ill. 


exercise of a stock-settled Stock Appreciation Ri 
bei 


be 
of 


Any shares of Com 


y shares of Common Stock that are tendered by a Participant or withheld as full or partia 
thholding or other taxes or as payment for the exercise or conversion price of an Award under the P 
t be added back to the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under 
ght, the number of shares subject to the Award that are then 

aximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may 
the basis of one share for every share subject thereto, regardless 


ng exercised sh 
issued under th 


ou 


Share Limitation. 
the one-year ann 


Any shares of Common S 
exercise of an Award shal 


iversa 


the actual number of shares used to settle th 


tstanding awards previ 
a merger, consolidation, a 
required by law or regulat 


o Awards g 


t to the foregoing maximum share limitation. 


all be counted against the m 
e Plan as provided above, on 


e Stock Appreciation Right upon exercise. 


mon S 
ously granted to individuals who become employees of the Company as 


not increase the number of shares available for future grant of Awards. 


ranted under the Plan on or after May 1, 2024 shall vest in whole or in par 
e date of grant; provided, h 


ry of th 


payment of 


cquisition or other corporate transaction involving the Company shall not, unless 
ion, count against the reserve of available shares of Common Stock under the P 


tock repurchased by the Company on the open market using the proceeds from 


owever, that the foregoing limitation shall not 
(i) Awards granted in the aggregate for up to five percent (5%) of the total shares of Common Stock ava 


an shall 


the Plan. Upon 


tock underlying Awards granted through the assumption of, or in substitution for, 


a result of 


t prior t 
apply to 
ilable under 


Section 5(a) on or after May 1, 2024 for the future grant of Awards under the Plan, (ii) any rights to accelerated vesting 


in connection wi 
with employmen 
Participant, or (D 
and (iii) Payment Shares granted to Non-Employee Direc 


th (A) 


t termination following such event), (B) 


a Change of Control as described 


tors. For periods before May 1, 2024, no more 


in Section 11 (including vesting acceleration in 
the death of the Participant, (C) the total disabi 
the Participant's retirement, in each case, whether set forth in the Plan, an agreement 


connection 
lity of the 

or otherwise, 
than five 


percent (5%) of the shares of Common Stock authorized under Section 5(a) may be issued in connection with the 


following Awards whether granted before or after May 5, 2010: 


i. Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units having a tim 
no event less than one year), subject to (A) pro rata vest 


(B) acceleration due to the Participant's death, total disability or retirement; 


ili. 


Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units having a tim 
due to a Participant's transfer to an affiliated business; or 


Stock Awards having a Restriction Period of less than th 


e-based Restriction Period less than three years (but in 
ing prior to the expiration of any Restriction Period and 


e-based Restriction Period that is actually accelerated 


ree (3) years (not including transfers to satisfy required 


tax withholding or intra-family transfers permitted by the Committee), subject to acceleration due to the 
Participant's death or total disability, 
in each case described in (i), (ii) or (iii) above, as specified in the applicable Award agreement; provided that such 
limitations shall not be applicable to Payment Shares to Non-Employee Directors. 


Shares to be Delivered. The source of shares of Common Stock to be delivered by the Company under the Plan 
shall be determined by the Company and may consist in whole or in part of authorized but unissued shares or 
repurchased shares. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | B-5 


Appendix B - PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


6. Award Limitations. 


The maximum number of shares of Common Stock subject to Options and SARs that can be granted to any Eligible Person 
other than a Non-Employee Director) during a single calendar year shall not exceed two (2) million shares. The maximum 
amount of Awards other than Options and SARs that can be granted to any Eligible Person (other than a Non-Employee 
Director) during a single calendar year shall not exceed $15 million; provided that the foregoing limitation shall be applied to 
an Award that is denominated in shares of Common Stock on the basis of the Fair Market Value of such shares on the date 

the Award is granted. Notwithstanding the limitation set forth in the preceding sentence, the maximum Award that may be 
granted to such Eligible Person for a Performance Period longer than one calendar or fiscal year shall not exceed the foregoing 
annual maximum multiplied by the number of full calendar or fiscal years in the Performance Period. Award limitations for 
on-Employee Directors are set forth in Section 8 of the Plan. 


7. Awards to Eligible Persons. 
a. Options. 


i. Grants. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Eligible Persons. Options may 
consist of ISOs or NQSOs, as the Committee shall determine. Options may be granted alone or in tandem with 
SARs. With respect to Options granted in tandem with SARs, the exercise of either such Options or such SARs 
will result in the simultaneous cancellation of the same number of tandem SARs or Options, as the case may be. 


ii, Option Exercise Price. The Option Exercise Price shall be equal to or, at the Committee's discretion, greater than 
the Fair Market Value on the date the Option is granted, unless the Option was granted through the assumption 
of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted to individuals who became employees of 
the Company as a result of a merger, consolidation, acquisition or other corporate transaction involving the 
Company (in which case the assumption or substitution shall be accomplished in a manner that permits the 
Option to be exempt from Code Section 409A). 


ili. Term. The term of Options shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, but in no event shall the 
term exceed ten (10) years from the date of grant; provided, however, that Awards of NOQSOs and SARs covering 
up to five (5) million shares of Common Stock, in the aggregate, may be issued with a term of up to fifteen 
(15) years. 


iv. [SOLimits. ISOs may be granted only to Eligible Persons who are employees of PepsiCo or of any parent or 
subsidiary corporation (within the meaning of Code Section 424) on the date of grant, and may only be granted 
to an employee who, at the time the Option is granted, does not own stock possessing more than ten percent 
(10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of PepsiCo or of any parent or subsidiary 
corporation (within the meaning of Code Section 424). The aggregate Fair Market Value of all shares of Common 
Stock with respect to which ISOs are exercisable by a Participant for the first time during any calendar year 
(under all plans of the Company) shall not exceed $100,000 or such other amount as may subsequently be 
specified by the Code and/or applicable regulations. The aggregate Fair Market Value of such shares shall be 
determined at the time the Option is granted. ISOs shall contain such other provisions as the Committee shall 
deem advisable but shall in all events be consistent with and contain or be deemed to contain all provisions 
required in order to qualify as incentive stock options under Code Section 422. No more than 270 million of the 
shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance under the Plan may be issued in the form of ISOs. 


v. No Repricing. Except for anti-dilution adjustments made pursuant to Section 10 and the change in control 
provisions set forth in Section 11, without the approval of PepsiCo’s shareholders, (A) the Option Exercise 
Price for any outstanding Option granted under the Plan may not be decreased after the date of grant, (B) no 
outstanding Option granted under the Plan may be surrendered to the Company as consideration for the grant 
of a new Option with a lower Option Exercise Price, (C) no outstanding Option granted under the Plan with an 
Option Exercise Price above the then-current Fair Market Value may be cancelled in exchange for a payment 
in cash or other securities and (D) no other modifications to any outstanding Option may be made that would 
be treated as a “repricing” under the then applicable rules, regulations or listing requirements adopted by the 
principal exchange on which PepsiCo Common Stock is traded as of the time in question. 


vi. Form of Payment. The Option Exercise Price shall be paid to the Company at the time of such exercise, subject to 
any applicable rules or regulations adopted by the Committee: 


A. tothe extent permitted by applicable law, pursuant to cashless exercise procedures that are, from time to 
time, approved by the Committee; 


B-6 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Vil. 


Vill. 


Appendix B - PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


B. through the tender of shares of Common Stock owned by the Participant (or by delivering a certification or 
attestation of ownership of such shares) valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise; 


C. in cash or its equivalent; or 
D. by any combination of (A), (B), and (C) above. 


No Dividend Equivalents. No dividends or dividend equivalents may be paid on Options. Except as otherwise 
provided herein, a Participant shall have no rights as a holder of Common Stock with respect to shares of 
Common Stock covered by an Option unless and until such shares of Common Stock have been registered to 
the Participant as the owner. 


Minimum Vesting Period. The minimum vesting provisions of Section 5(c) of the Plan shall apply to all Options 
granted hereunder, provided, that any Options granted on or after March 13, 2014 and before May 1, 2024 shall 
have a minimum vesting period of three years (subject to (A) pro rata vesting prior to the expiration of any 
Restriction Period and (B) acceleration due to the Participant's death, total disability or retirement, in each case as 
specified in the applicable Award agreement). 


No Automatic Grants. No Option granted under the Plan shall contain any provision entitling the Participant to 
the automatic grant of additional Options in connection with any exercise of the original Option. 


Stock Appreciation Rights. 


Il. 


ill. 


Vil. 


Grants. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, SARs may be granted to Eligible Persons. SARs may be 
granted alone or in tandem with Options. With respect to SARs granted in tandem with Options, the exercise 
of either such Options or such SARs will result in the simultaneous cancellation of the same number of tandem 
SARs or Options, as the case may be. 


Exercise Price. The exercise price per share of Common Stock covered by a SAR granted pursuant to the Plan 

shall be equal to or, at the Committee's discretion, greater than Fair Market Value on the date the SAR is 

granted, unless the SAR was granted through the assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards 
previously granted to individuals who became employees of the Company as a result of a merger, consolidation, 
acquisition or other corporate transaction involving the Company (in which case the assumption or substitution 
shall be accomplished in a manner that permits the SAR to be exempt from Code Section 409A). 


Term. The term of a SAR shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, but, in no event shall 
the term exceed ten (10) years from the date of grant, provided, however, that Awards of NOSOs and SARs 
covering up to five (5) million shares of Common Stock, in the aggregate, may be issued with a term of up to 
fifteen (15) years. 


No Repricing. Except for anti-dilution adjustments made pursuant to Section 10 and the change in control 
provisions set forth in Section 11, without the approval of PepsiCo’s shareholders, (A) the exercise price for any 
outstanding SAR granted under the Plan may not be decreased after the date of grant, (B) no outstanding 
SAR granted under the Plan may be surrendered to the Company as consideration for the grant of a new SAR 
with a lower exercise price, (C) no outstanding SAR granted under the Plan with an exercise price above the 
then-current Fair Market Value may be cancelled in exchange for a payment in cash or other securities and 
(D) no other modifications to any outstanding SAR may be made that would be treated as a “repricing” under 
the then applicable rules, regulations or listing requirements adopted by the principal exchange on which 
PepsiCo Common Stock is traded as of the time in question. 


Form of Payment. The Committee may authorize payment of a SAR in the form of cash, Common Stock valued 

at its Fair Market Value on the date of the exercise, a combination thereof, or by any other method as the 
Committee may determine. 

No Dividend Equivalents. No dividends or dividend equivalents may be paid on SARs. 

Minimum Vesting Period. The minimum vesting provisions of Section 5(c) of the Plan shall apply to all SARs 
granted hereunder, provided, that any SARs granted on or after March 13, 2014 and before May 1, 2024 shall have 
a minimum vesting period of three years (subject to (A) pro rata vesting prior to the expiration of any Restriction 
Period and (B) acceleration due to the Participant's death, total disability or retirement, in each case as specified 
in the applicable Award agreement). 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | B-7 


Appendix B - PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


C 


Restricted Shares / Restricted Stock Units. 


i. Grants. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units may be 
granted to Eligible Persons. 


any Restricted 
without limita 
ea 
of 
an 


any Restricted 
of three years 
due to the Par 


ons under applicable federa 


Stock or Restricted Stock Un 


subject to (A) 


agreement). To the extent th 


s (Company-wide, divisional, 


all Restricted Shares and Res 


or state securi 


tipulated purchase pri 


and/or individual); ti 
ties laws. The minimu 
tricted Stock Units g 
its granted before May 1, 2024 shal 
pro rata vesting prior to the expiration of any Rest 
ticipant’s death, total disability or retiremen 
e Restricted Shares or Restric 


t, in each case as spec 
ted Stock Units gran 


m 
m ves 
ranted h 
h 


ri 


ified in 


Restrictions; Minimum Vesting Period. The Committee shall impose such terms, conditions and/or restrictions on 
Shares or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the Plan as i 
tion: a requirement that Participants pay as 
ch Restricted Stock Unit; forfeiture condi 
specific performance goa 
d/or restricti 
5(c) of the Plan shall apply to 


t may deem advisable including, 
ce for each Restricted Share or 
tions; transfer restrictions; restrictions based upon the achievement 
e-based restrictions on vesting; 
ting provision 
ereunder, provided that 
ave aminimum ves 
ction Period and (B 


the applicab 


ted under the Plan on 


November 2, 2017 are inten 


ded to be deductible under Code Section 162(m 


), the app 


icable restricti 


s of Section 


ting period 
acceleration 
e Award 

or before 
ons shall be 


based on the achievement 
iil. 
and conditions shall be set 
determined by the Commi 
in the shares of Common S 
to such Restricted Stock Un 
as practicable after the earli 


of Performance Goals over a Performance Peri 


nit 


kJ 


approved transfer or retirement) specified in the applicable Award agreement. 


Transfer Restrictions. During the Restriction Period, Restricted Shares may n 


Payment of Restricted Stock Units. Restricted Stock Units that become payable in accordance with the 
tled in cash, shares of Common Stock, or a combi 
ttee. Any person who holds Restricted Stock U 
tock to which the Restricted Stock Units relate 
its is actually made in shares of Common Stoc 
est of (A) any vesting date that can be pre-de 
of an Award agreement, and (B) the occurrence date of an applicable ves 


otherwise disposed of, or mortgaged, pledged or otherwise encumbered. In order to enforce the 
imposed upon the Restricted Shares, the Committee may (A) cause a legend or legends to be placed on any 
certificates evidencing such Restricted Shares, and/or (B) cause “stop transfer” instructions to be issued, as it 
deems necessary or appropriate. Restricted Stock Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred or otherwise 
disposed of, or mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise encumbered at any time. 


Participants who hold Restricted Shares sh 
other distribution or rights in respect of su 


all have the right to receive di 
ch shares and shall have the r 


od, as described in Section 7(d) below. 


ir terms 


nation of cash and shares, as 

s shall have no ownership interest 
unless and until paymen 
[he payment date sha 
termined at grant under 
ting event (e.g., death, to 


t with respect 
| be as soon 
the terms 

tal disability, 


ot be sold, assigned, transferred or 


imitations 


Dividend and Voting Rights. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, during the Restriction Period, 
vidends in cash or other property or 
ight to vote such shares as the record 


owners thereof, provided that, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, any dividends or other property 


payable to a Participant during the Restricti 


restrictions imposed on the applicable Res 


during the Restriction Period, Participants who hold Restricted Stock Un 
tock Units; provided tha 


equivalents in respect of such Restricted S 
Committee, such dividend equivalents sha 
the restrictions imposed on the applicable 


vi. Ownership of Restricted Shares. Restricted Sh 


tricted Shares lapse. Un 


ares issued under the P 


Participant on the books and records of the Company or its design 
the electronic equivalent thereof if certificates are issued with resp 


applicable restrictions imposed by the Plan 


B-8 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


. Ifa Restricted Share is 


that apply to such Restricted Shares, such interest or certificate, as 
end of the Restriction Period that applies to Restricted Shares, the number of shares to which 
is then entitled shall be delivered to the Participant free and clear of the restrictions, either in cert 
uncertificated form. No shares of Common Stock shall be registered in the name of the Participan 
to a Restricted Stock Unit unless and until such unit is paid in shares of Common Stock. 


on Period shall be distri 


ess O 


an shall be registered in th 
ee (or by one or more phy 


forfeited in accordance wi 
the case may be, shall be c 


t, unless otherwise determi 
| be distributed (without interest) to the Participant on 
Restricted Stock Units lapse. 


ned 


sica 


th th 


the 


buted to the Participant only if and when the 
therwise determined by the Committee, 
its shall be credited with dividend 


by the 


ly if and when 


e name of the 


certificates or 


ect to such Restricted Shares) subject to the 
e restrictions 
ancelled. At the 


Participant 


ificated or 
t with respect 


Appendix B - PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


d. Performance Awards. 


i. Grants. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, Performance Awards may be granted to Eligible Persons. 
Performance Awards may be granted either alone or in addition to other Awards made under the Plan. 


ii. Performance Goals; Minimum Vesting Period. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, Performance 
Awards shall be conditioned on the achievement of Performance Goals (which shall be based on one or more 
Performance Measures, as determined by the Committee) over a Performance Period. The Performance Period 
shall be one year, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, provided the minimum vesting provisions 
of Section 5(c) of the Plan shall apply to all Performance Awards granted hereunder, provided, further, that any 
Performance Awards granted before May 1, 2024 shall have a minimum vesting period of three years (subject to 
(A) pro rata vesting prior to the expiration of any Restriction Period and (B) acceleration due to the Participant's 
death or total disability, in each case as specified in the applicable Award agreement). 


iii. Performance Measures. The Performance Measure(s) to be used for purposes of Performance Awards may be 
described in terms of objectives that are related to the individual Participant or objectives that are Company- 
wide or related to a subsidiary, division, department, region, function or business unit of the Company, and may 
consist of one or more or any combination of the following criteria: stock price, market share, sales revenue, cash 
flow, sales volume, earnings per share, return on equity, return on assets, return on sales, return on invested 
capital, economic value added, net earnings, total shareholder return, gross margin, costs, productivity, brand 
contribution, product quality, portfolio transformation, productivity improvement, corporate value measures 
(such as compliance, safety, environmental and personnel matters), or goals related to corporate initiatives, 
such as acquisitions, dispositions or customer satisfaction and, solely with respect to Awards granted on or 
after May 1, 2024, any other performance metric determined by the Committee. The Performance Goals based 
on these Performance Measures may be expressed in absolute terms or relative to the performance of other 
entities. For the avoidance of doubt, any Performance Measures that are financial metrics, may be determined 
in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) or may be adjusted when 
established to include or exclude any items otherwise includable or excludable under GAAP. 


iv. Negative Discretion. Notwithstanding the achievement of any Performance Goal established under the Plan, 
the Committee has the discretion to reduce, but not increase, some or all of a Performance Award that would 
otherwise be paid to a Participant. 


v. Extraordinary Events. At, or at any time after, the time an Award is granted, the Committee, in its sole discretion, 
may provide for the manner in which performance will be measured against the Performance Goals (or may 
adjust the Performance Goals) to reflect the impact of specific corporate transactions, accounting or tax law 
changes, asset write-downs, significant litigation or claim adjustment, foreign exchange gains and losses, 
disposal of a segment of a business, discontinued operations, refinancing or repurchase of bank loans or debt 
securities, unbudgeted capital expenditures and other unusual or infrequently occurring events. 


vi. Performance-Based Exception. With respect to any Award granted under the Plan on or before November 2, 2017 
that is intended to satisfy the conditions for the Performance-Based Exception under Code Section 162(m): 
(A) the Committee shall interpret the Plan and this Section 7(d) in light of Code Section 162(m) and the 
regulations thereunder; (B) the Committee shall not amend the Award in any way that would adversely affect 
the treatment of the Award under Code Section 162(m) and the regulations thereunder; and (C) such Award 
shall not be paid until the Committee shall first have certified in writing that the Performance Goals have 
been achieved. The amendment and restatement of the Plan as of May 1, 2024 shall not affect the terms and 
conditions of any Outstanding Qualified Performance-Based Award that the Company intends to qualify for 
grandfathering under PL. 115-97, Section 13601(e)(2), to the extent that the amendment and restatement would 
result in a material modification of such award within the meaning of such Section 13601(e)(2). For purposes 
of this Section 7(d)(vi), “Outstanding Qualified Performance-Based Award” means any award granted on or 
before November 2, 2017 that is outstanding as of May 1, 2024 and that is intended to constitute “qualified 
performance-based compensation” as described in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code, as in effect prior to its 
amendment by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, PL. 115-97. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | B-9 


Appendix B - PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


é. 


Stock Awards. 


i. Grants. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, Stock Awards consisting of shares of Common Stock may be 
granted pursuant to this Section 7(e) only to Eligible Persons who are Non-Employee Directors, consultants 


or advisors to the Company and may not be granted 
Directors). Stock Awards may be granted either alone 


to employees of the Company (including Employee 
or in addition to other Awards made under the Plan. 


ii. Terms and Conditions. The shares of Common Stock subject to a Stock Award shall be immediately vested at the 


time of grant and nonforfeitable at all times but shall 


be subject to such other terms and conditions, including 


restrictions on transferability, as determined by the Committee in its discretion subject to Section 5(¢) and the 
other provisions of the Plan. The shares of Common Stock subject to a Stock Award shall be registered in the 


name of the Participant. 


8. Awards to Non-Employee Directors. 


a. 


Awards. Non-Employee Directors are eligible to receive an 
applicable to such Awards under Section 7 for each such 


y type of Award under the Plan, subject to the terms 
category of Award and subject to the limitations set forth 


in Section 8(c). The Committee retains the discretion to change the amount and terms of the Payment Shares 


described in Section 8(b) and/or the types of Awards to 
amount of such Non-Employee Director Awards is subjec 


on-Employee Directors; provided that any change to the 
t to the limitation in Section 8@. 


b. Payment Shares. A current or former Non-Employee Director's interest in phantom shares of Common Stock under 


Deferral Program provides for the stock settlement of suc 


valuation date, and such Payment Shares shall be distribu 
Director Deferral Program. 


on-Employee Director during a single calendar year sha 


the Director Deferral Program, which results from mandatory deferrals of annual Non-Employee Director equity 
grants and an elective or mandatory deferral of Non-Employee Director cash payments, shall be paid in shares of 
Common Stock (“Payment Shares”) pursuant to the Plan while the Plan remains in effect, to the extent the Director 


h phantom shares. The number of Payment Shares a 


current or former Non-Employee Director is entitled to receive shall be equal to the number of the Non-Employee 
Director's phantom shares of Common Stock under the Director Deferral Program on the applicable distribution 


ted at the time and subject to the conditions of the 


Limitations. The maximum amount of Awards denominated in shares of Common Stock that can be granted to any 


| not exceed $500,000 in the aggregate plus an additional 


$500,000 ($250,000 for Awards granted before May 1, 2024) for one-time Awards in the calendar year in which a Non- 
Employee Director initially becomes a member of the Board. The maximum amount of any cash retainers, even if 


electively deferred and paid in shares of Common Stock, 
a single calendar year shall not exceed $500,000 in the ag 
in shares of Common Stock, the value shall be computed 
applicable financial accounting rules. 


9. Deferred Payments. 


that can be granted to any Non-Employee Director during 
gregate. With respect to an Award that is denominated 
based on the grant date fair value in accordance with 


Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee may determine that all or a portion of any Award to a Participant, whether it 
is to be paid in cash, shares of Common Stock or a combination thereof, shall be deferred or may, in its sole discretion, approve 
deferral elections made by Participants. Deferrals shall be for such periods and upon such terms as the Committee may 


dete 


rmine in its sole discretion, which terms shall be designed to co 


10. Dilution and Other Adjustments. 


In the event of any merger, reorgan 


split, 
Com 


as described in Section 5, the indivi 


outs 


to any other Awards granted under t 


awh 


mply with Code Section 409A. 


ization, consolidation, recapitalization, stock dividend, extraordinary cash dividend, stock 


combination or exchange of shares or other change in corporate structure affecting any class of Common Stock, the 


mittee shall make such adjustments in the class and aggregate 


ole number), as may be, and to such extent (if any), determined 


number of shares which may be delivered under the Plan 


dual award maximums under Section 6, the class, number, and Option Exercise Price of 
tanding Options, the class, number and exercise price of outstanding SARs and the class and number of shares subject 
he Plan (provided the number of shares of any class subject to any Award shall always be 


to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee, and 


any such adjustment may, in the sole discretion of the Committee, take the form of Options covering more than one class of 


mon Stock. Such adjustment shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes of the Plan. Any adjustment of an Option 


or SAR under this Section 10 shall be accomplished in a manner that permits the Option or SAR to be exempt from Code 


Com 
Section 409A. 
B-10 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Appendix B - PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


11. Change in Control. 


a. 


Impact of Event. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Change in Control, 
the following provisions of this Section 11 shall apply except to the extent an Award agreement provides for a 
different treatment (in which case the Award agreement shall govern and this Section 11 shall not be applicable): 


i. 


ili. 


Definitions: 


i. 


If and to the extent that outstanding Awards under the Plan (A) are assumed by the successor corporation (or 
affiliate thereto) or continued or (B) are replaced with equity awards that preserve the existing value of the 
Awards at the time of the Change in Control and provide for subsequent payout in accordance with a vesting 
schedule and Performance Goals, as applicable, that are the same or more favorable to the Participants than 
the vesting schedule and Performance Goals applicable to the Awards, then all such Awards or such substitutes 
thereof shall remain outstanding and be governed by their respective terms and the provisions of the Plan 
subject to Section 11(a)(iv) below. 


If and to the extent that outstanding Awards under the Plan are not assumed, continued or replaced in 
accordance with Section 11(a)(i) above, then upon the Change in Control the following treatment (referred to as 
“Change-in-Control Treatment”) shall apply to such Awards: (A) outstanding Options and SARs shall immediately 
vest and become exercisable; (B) the restrictions and other conditions applicable to outstanding Restricted 
Shares, Restricted Stock Units and Stock Awards, including vesting requirements, shall immediately lapse; such 
Awards shall be free of all restrictions and fully vested; and, with respect to Restricted Stock Units, shall be 
payable immediately in accordance with their terms or, if later, as of the earliest permissible date under Code 
Section 409A; and (C) outstanding Performance Awards granted under the Plan shall immediately vest and shall 
become immediately payable in accordance with their terms as if the Performance Goals have been achieved at 
the target performance level. 


If and to the extent that outstanding Awards under the Plan are not assumed, continued or replaced in 
accordance with Section 11(a)(i) above, then in connection with the application of the Change-in-Control 
Treatment set forth in Section 11(a)(ii) above, the Board may, in its sole discretion, provide for cancellation of 
such outstanding Awards at the time of the Change in Control in which case a payment of cash, property or a 
combination thereof shall be made to each such Participant upon the consummation of the Change in Control 
that is determined by the Board in its sole discretion and that is at least equal to the excess (if any) of the value 
of the consideration that would be received in such Change in Control by the holders of PepsiCo's securities 
relating to such Awards over the exercise or purchase price (if any) for such Awards (except that, in the case of an 
Option or SAR, such payment shall be limited as necessary to prevent the Option or SAR from being subject to 
Code Section 409A). 


If and to the extent that (A) outstanding Awards are assumed, continued or replaced in accordance with 
Section 11(a)(i) above and (B) a Participant's employment with, or performance of services for, the Company 
is terminated by the Company for any reasons other than Cause or by such Participant for Good Reason, in 
each case, within the two-year period commencing on the Change in Control, then, as of the date of such 
Participant's termination, the Change-in-Control Treatment set forth in Section 11(a)(ii) above shall apply to all 
assumed or replaced Awards of such Participant then outstanding. 


Outstanding Options or SARs that are assumed, continued or replaced in accordance with Section 11(a)(i) may 
be exercised by the Participant in accordance with the applicable terms and conditions of such Award as set 
forth in the applicable Award agreement or elsewhere; provided, however, that Options or SARs that become 
exercisable in accordance with Section 11(a)(iv) may be exercised until the expiration of the original full term of 
such Option or SAR notwithstanding the other original terms and conditions of such Award. 


For purposes of this Section 11, “Change in Control” means the occurrence of any of the following events: 

A. acquisition of 20% or more of the outstanding voting securities of PepsiCo by another entity or group; 
excluding, however, the following: (1) any acquisition by PepsiCo or (2) any acquisition by an employee 
benefit plan or related trust sponsored or maintained by PepsiCo; 


B. during any consecutive two-year period, persons who constitute the Board at the beginning of the period 
cease to constitute at least 50% of the Board (unless the election of each new Board member was approved 
by a majority of directors who began the two-year period); 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | B-11 


Appendix B - PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


C. consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than 
a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding 
immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being 
converted into voting shares of the surviving entity) more than 50% of the combined voting power of 
the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger 
or consolidation; 


D. PepsiCo shareholders approve a plan of complete liquidation of PepsiCo or the sale or disposition of all or 
substantially all of PepsiCo’s assets; or 


E. any other event, circumstance, offer or proposal occurs or is made, which is intended to effect a change in 
the control of PepsiCo, and which results in the occurrence of one or more of the events set forth in clauses 
(A) through (D) of this Section 11(b)(i). 


ii, For purposes of this Section 11, “Cause” means with respect to any Participant, unless otherwise provided in 
the applicable Award agreement, (A) the Participant's willful misconduct that materially injures the Company; 
(B) the Participant's conviction of a felony or a plea of nolo contendere by Participant with respect to a felony; or 
(C) the Participant's continued failure to substantially perform his or her duties with the Company (other than by 
reason of the Participant's disability) after written demand by the Company that identifies the manner in which 
the Company believes that the Participant has not performed his or her duties. A termination for Cause must be 
communicated to the Participant by written notice that specifies the event or events claimed to provide a basis 
for termination for Cause. 


iii. For purposes of this Section 11, “Good Reason” means with respect to any Participant, unless otherwise provided 
in the applicable Award agreement, without the Participant's written consent, (A) the Company's requiring a 
material change in the Participant's principal place of employment as it existed immediately prior to the Change 
in Control, except for reasonably required travel on the Company's business that is not materially greater than 
such travel requirements prior to the Change in Control (for this purpose, a change of 35 or fewer miles shall not 
be considered a material change in the Participant's principal place of employment); (B) a material reduction in 
the Participant’s compensation (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation § 1.409A-1(n)(2)(ii)(A)(1)) as in effect 
immediately prior to the Change in Control; or (C) a material reduction in the Participant’s job responsibilities, 
authority or duties with the Company as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control. A termination 

for Good Reason must be communicated by the Participant to the Company by written notice that specifies 

the event or events claimed to provide a basis for termination for Good Reason; provided that the Participant's 
written notice must be tendered within ninety (90) days of the occurrence of such event or events and provided 
further that the Company shall have failed to remedy such act or omission within thirty (30) days following its 
receipt of such notice. A Participant’s continued employment shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of 
rights with respect to, any act or failure to act constituting Good Reason hereunder if the Participant actually 
terminates employment within fourteen (14) days after the Company’s failure to timely remedy or, if earlier, prior 
to the second anniversary of the Change in Control. 


12. Miscellaneous Provisions. 


a. Clawbacks. In accepting an Award under the Plan, the Participant agrees to be bound by any clawback policy that 
the Company has in effect or may adopt in the future, including without limitation the PepsiCo, Inc. Compensation 
Recovery Policy for Covered Executives adopted in accordance with stock exchange listing requirements (or any 
successor policy). The Participant agrees that in the event it is determined in accordance with any such policy that 
any Award granted under the Plan (including any dividends, unvested dividends or dividend equivalents paid with 
respect thereto), any shares of Common Stock issued upon exercise or settlement thereof (including securities or 
other property received therefor), or any other proceeds from the exercise or settlement of such Award or the sale 
of such shares of Common Stock must be forfeited or reimbursed to the Company, the Participant will promptly take 
any action necessary to effectuate such forfeiture and/or reimbursement as determined by the Company. 


b. Misconduct. 
i. Except as otherwise provided in agreements covering Awards hereunder, a Participant shall forfeit all rights in 
his or her outstanding Awards under the Plan, and all such outstanding Awards shall automatically terminate 


and lapse, if the Committee determines that such Participant has (A) made unauthorized use or disclosure 
of confidential information or trade secrets of the Company, (B) breached any contract with or violated 


B-12 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Appendix B - Pe 


psiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


any obligation to the Company, including without limitation, a violation of any Company code of conduct, 


(CQ) engaged in unlawful tra 
gained as a result of that Pa 


ding in the securities of PepsiCo or of another company based on information 
rticipant's employment or other relationship with the Company, (D) committed 


a felony or other serious crime or engaged in any activity which constitutes gross misconduct, (E) breached 
the non-compete, non-solicitation or other restrictive covenants as provided in the applicable Award 
agreement, or (F) violated any PepsiCo compensation clawback policy applicable to the Participant. For the 


avoidance of doubt, nothin 


g in this Plan, any Award or any agreement covering any Award hereunder shall 


prohibit communication with a government agency, regulator or legal authority concerning any possible 


violations of law. 


the Committee may, to the 


to reimburse the Company 


Executive Officer, and/or (C 
gains from the exercise of t 
Awards realized during the 
required to be adjusted. Fo 
the Company for purposes 


n addition, to the extent provided in the applicable Award agreement, in the event any accounting adjustment 
is required to be made to the Company's financial results and the Committee determines that an Executive 
Officer's gross negligence or misconduct caused or contributed to the need for the accounting adjustment, 


extent determined appropriate by the Committee in its sole discretion to reflect 


the impact of the accounting adjustment on the Company's financial results, (A) require such Executive Officer 


for all or a portion of any Award previously paid to such Executive Officer, (B) cause 


the cancellation of all or a portion of any outstanding Awards held by such Executive Officer or payable to such 


require such Executive Officer to reimburse the Company for all or a portion of the 
he Executive Officer's Options or settlement of any of the Executive Officer's other 
twelve (12)-month period following the first issuance or filing of the financial results 
r purposes of this Section 12(b)(ii), “Executive Officer” means an executive officer of 
of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. 


iii. The remedies set forth in this Section 12(b) are in addition to any other remedies available under applicable law 


in the event of misconduct 


described above. 


Rights as Shareholder. Except as otherwise provided herein, a Participant shall have no rights as a holder of Common 
Stock with respect to Awards hereunder, unless and until the shares of Common Stock have been registered to the 


Participant as the owner. 
No Loans. No loans from the Co 


mpany to Participants shall be permitted in connection with the Plan. 


Assignment or Transfer. Except as otherwise provided under the Plan, no Award under the Plan or any rights or 


ithholding Taxes. PepsiCo sha 
required by law to be withheld 


interests therein shall be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. The Committee may, 
in its discretion, provide that an Award (other than an ISO) is transferable without the payment of any consideration 
to a Participant's family member, whether directly or by means of a trust or otherwise, subject to such terms and 
conditions as the Committee may impose. For this purpose, “family member” has the meaning given to such term 
in the General Instructions to the Form S-8 registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933. All Awards under 
the Plan shall be exercisable, during the Participant's lifetime, only by the Participant or a person who is a permitted 
transferee pursuant to this Section 12(e). Once awarded, the shares of Common Stock (other than Restricted Shares) 
received by Participants may be freely transferred, assigned, pledged or otherwise subjected to lien, subject to: 

i) the transfer restrictions in Section 7(e)(ii) above; and (ii) the restrictions imposed by the Securities Act of 1933, 
Section 16 of the Exchange Act and PepsiCo's Insider Trading Policy, each as amended from time to time. 


| have the right to deduct from all Awards paid in cash to a Participant any taxes 
with respect to such Awards. All statutory minimum applicable withholding taxes 


arising with respect to Awards paid in shares of Common Stock to a Participant shall be satisfied by PepsiCo retaining 


shares of Common Stock havin 


g a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined that is equal to the 


amount of such statutory minimum applicable withholding tax (rounded, if necessary, to the next highest whole 
number of shares of Common Stock); provided, however, that, subject to any restrictions or limitations that the 
Committee deems appropriate, a Participant may elect to satisfy such statutory minimum applicable withholding 


tax through cash or cash proce 
shares of Common Stock havin 
tax without financial accountin 
the number of shares having a 
individual statutory rate of tax) 
associated with any Award. 


eds; and, provided, further, however, that to the extent that PepsiCo is able to retain 
g a Fair Market Value that exceeds the statutory minimum applicable withholding 

g implications, PepsiCo may retain such number of shares of Common Stock (up to 
Fair Market Value equal to the relevant tax liability calculated using the maximum 
as the Company shall determine in its sole discretion to satisfy the tax liability 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | B-13 


Appendix B - PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


g. Currency and Other Restrictions. The obligations of the Company to make delivery of Awards in cash or Common 
Stock shall be subject to currency or other restrictions imposed by any governmental authority or regulatory body 


having jurisdiction over such Awards. 


h. No Rights to Awards. Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving any person any 
right to be retained in the employ or service of the Company, and the Plan shall not interfere with or limit in any way 
the right of the Company to terminate any person's employment or service at any time. Except as set forth herein, 
no employee or other person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award under the Plan. By accepting an 
Award, the Participant acknowledges and agrees that (i) the Award will be exclusively governed by the terms of the 
Plan, including the right reserved by the Company to amend or cancel the Plan at any time without the Company 


be granted to him or her in the future under the Plan 


incurring liability to the Participant (except, to the extent the terms of the Award so provide, for Awards already 
granted under the Plan), (ii) Awards are not a constituent part of salary and the Participant is not entitled, under the 
terms and conditions of employment, or by accepting or being granted Awards under the Plan to require Awards to 
or any other plan, (iii) the value of Awards received under the 
Plan shall be excluded from the calculation of termination indemnities or other severance payments or benefits, and 
iv) the Participant shall seek all necessary approval under, make all required notifications under, and comply with all 
aws, rules and regulations applicable to the ownership of Options and shares of Common Stock and the exercise of 


Options, including, without limitation, currency and exchange laws, rules and regulations. 


i. Beneficiary Designation. To the extent allowed by the Committee, each Participant under the Plan may, from time to 
time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named on a contingent or successive basis) to whom any 
benefit under the Plan is to be paid in case of his or her death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit. 
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same 
Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Committee, and shall be effective only when filed by the Participant 
in writing with the Company during the Participant's lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, benefits 
remaining unpaid at the Participant's death shall be paid to the Participant's estate. 


j. Costs and Expenses. The cost and expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by PepsiCo and not charged to 


any Award or to any Participant. 


k. Fractional Shares. Fractional shares of Common Stock shall not be issued or transferred under an Award, but the 


Committee may direct that cash be paid in lieu of frac 
I. Funding of Plan. The Plan shall be unfunded and any b 


tional shares or may round off fractional shares, in its discretion. 
enefits under the Plan shall represent an unsecured promise to 


pay by the Company. PepsiCo shall not be required to establish or fund any special or separate account or to make 


any other segregation of assets to assure the payment 


of any Award under the Plan and the existence of any such 


account or other segregation of assets shall be consistent with the “unfunded” status of the Plan. 


m. Indemnification. Provisions for the indemnification of officers and directors of the Company in connection with the 
administration of the Plan shall be as set forth in PepsiCo’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws as in effect from 
time to time. 

n. Successors. All obligations of PepsiCo under the Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding 


on any successor to PepsiCo, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, 
merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of PepsiCo. 


O. Compliance with Code Section 409A. The Plan is intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 409A and any 
regulations or guidance that may be adopted thereunder from time to time, including any transition relief available 
under applicable guidance related to Code Section 409A. Accordingly, to ensure the exemption from Code Section 
409A of potentially exempt Awards and the compliance with Code Section 409A of other Awards, any payment that 
under the terms of the Plan or an agreement is to be made as soon as practicable relative to a date shall be made 
not later than 60 days after such date, and the Participant may not determine the time of payment. Pursuant to 
Section 13(b), the Plan may be amended or interpreted by the Committee as it determines necessary or appropriate 
in accordance with Code Section 409A and to avoid a plan failure under Code Section 409A(a)(1). Ifa Participant is a 
“specified employee” as defined in Code Section 409A at the time of the Participant's separation from service with 
the Company, then solely to the extent necessary to avoid the imposition of any additional tax under Code Section 
409A, the commencement of any payments or benefits under an Award shall be deferred until the date that is six 
months following the Participant’s separation from service (or such other period as required to comply with Code 


Section 409A). 


B-14 | PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement 


Appendix B - PepsiCo, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 1, 2024) 


13. Effective Date, Governing Law, Amendments and Termination. 


Effective Date. The Plan in its original form became effective on May 2, 2007, the date on which it was initially 
approved by PepsiCo’s shareholders, and was subsequently amended by the Board on September 13, 2007 and 


a. 


September 12, 2008. The Plan was subsequently amended and restated by the Board on 


arch 12, 2010, became 


effective in its amended form upon its approval by PepsiCo’s shareholders on May 5, 2010, and was subsequently 
amended by the Committee on March 13, 2014. The Plan was amended and restated by the Board on March 3, 
2016, subject to the approval by a majority of PepsiCo's shareholders present and entitled to vote thereon at the 
May 4, 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Company. This amendment and restatement of the Plan that 
was approved on May 4, 2016 applies to Awards made after May 4, 2016 and, except to the extent it would adversely 
affect the rights of Participants with respect to Awards made prior to such date (or be a “material modification” 

of such Awards within the meaning of Code Section 409A), shall also apply to Awards outstanding as of May 4, 


2016. Th 


is amendment and res 


tatement was subsequently amended and restated effective December 20, 2017, 


pursuant to the direction of the Committee, by the Committee's authorized delegate, PepsiCo’s Executive Vice 
President and Chief Human Resources Officer. The Plan was subsequently amended and restated by the Board 
on February 7, 2024, subject to 


thereon 


at the May 1, 2024 Ann 


the approval by a majority of PepsiCo’s shareholders present and entitled to vote 
ual Meeting of Shareholders of the Company. This amendment and restatement 


of the Plan that was approved on May 1, 2024 applies to Awards made on or after May 1, 2024 and, except to the 


extent it 


would adversely affec 


ights of Participants with respect to Awards made prior to such date (or be a 


“material modification” of such Awards within the meaning of Code Section 409A or affect the “grandfather” status 


of Outstanding Qualified Performance-Based Awards), shall also apply to Awards outstanding as of 


Amendments. The Committee or the 
or in part, but no such action shall adversely affect any right 
prior to the date of such termination 
extent that the Committee reasonab 


Board may at any time 


y determines that such 


ay 1, 2024. 


terminate or from time to time amend the Plan in whole 
s or obligations with respect to any Awards granted 


or amendment without the consent of the affected Participant except to the 


termination or amendment is necessary or appropriate 


to comply with applicable law (including the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder 


pertaining to the deferral of compensation) or the rules and 
Stock is listed or quoted. Notwithstanding the foregoing, un 


regulations of any stock exchange on which Common 


less PepsiCo’s shareholders shall have first approved 


the amendment, no amendment of the Plan shall be effective if the amendment would (i) increase the maximum 


number of shares of Common Stock 
extent such amendment is made pursuant to Section 


that may be delivered under the Plan or to any one individual (except to the 
0 hereof), (ii) extend the maximum period during which 


Awards may be granted under the Plan, (iii) add to the types of awards that can be made under the Plan, (iv) change 


the Performance Measures pursuant 


to which Performance Awards are earned unless permitted by the Plan, 


(v) modify the requirements as to eligibility for participation in the Plan, (vi) decrease the grant or exercise price of 


any Option or SAR to less than the Fa 


ir Market Value on the date of grant except for anti-dilution adjustments made 


pursuant to Section 10; or (vii) require shareholder approval pursuant to the Plan or applicable law or the rules of the 
principal securities exchange on which shares of Common Stock are traded in order to be effective. 


Governing Law. Except as otherwise provided in agreements covering Awards hereunder, all questions pertaining to 
the construction, interpretation, regulation, validity and effect of the provisions of the Plan shall be determined in 


accordance with the laws of 


the State of North Carolina without giving effect to conflict of laws principles. 


Termination. No Awards shall be made under the Plan after May 1, 2034. 


PEPSICO 2024 Proxy Statement | B-15 


This page is intentionally left blank. 


This page is intentionally left blank. 


This page is intentionally left blank. 


3 PEPSICO 


MIX 


Paper from 
responsible sources 


Ee: FSC 


